THB EGYPTIAN GAZETTE, MONDAY, JANUARY 2, 1X>5.
PORT ARTHUR
JA
.NEW TOWN ABANDONED.
M <»R » l't RIS S'l <>RM1 DAN D. CA1MURFD
DEFENSIVE POWER WEAKENING.
London, December 31.
The Daily Tdigraph learns from Cbifu that a messenger from Dalny states that the Russians have abandoned the uew town at Port Arthur, which was destroyed-by the Japanese tire, 'llio Japanese are unable to occupy the same for tear ol mines which may be there.
(Reuter.)
Tokio, January 1.
The Japanese have taken by assault the forts of Sung shu-shnu and Paluug-sban and the Leights to the south of Huttsangyantao.
(Havas.)
Totuo, January 1.
The Japanese yesterday, after exploding a series of mines, stormed and captured dug-shu-shan, one of the most important of the remaining forts at Port Arthur. The Russians exploded mines as they were retreating. A portion of the'''garrison was' buried under the debris but reared b> the Japanese, who captured some guilds. Tbe Japanese losses were small. There is every indication that the ; deli iisive power is weakening.
The Jupuuese to day captured H fort and the new l’aluug-ohan fort, together with the heights south ol iiausjtugyautno.	(Heater.)
ADDRESS TO THE SPIRITS.
Tokio, December 31.
t hi the occasion of a nival luneral, Admiral 1 Togo delivered an eloquent and touching 1 address to the spill is ol his comrades lallen at 1 Port Arthur. Hu ueclmed a reception by the Tokio municipality on the ground that the time is not yet ripe fur such a ceremony. Admiral 'logo is bdaily engaged in conferring with his "naval stall as regards his luture plans.
(Reuter.)
THE BALTIC FLEET.
Pout Lons, December 31. j
It is rumoured that the two Russian squad- , runs wid join each other north of Majunga.
( Uavai.)
DUTCH NEUTRALITY.	i
—«-..... _	i
j The Hague, January 1.	'
The Dutch battleship "De Ruyter” has been ordered to the East Indies.	(Reuter.)
‘ <
DEPARTING RUSSIAN TROOPS. J REVIEWED BY TSAR.
St. Petersburg, January 1.
The rJ'snT i« visiting South Rjrssia in order > to hid farewell to the troops who,are departing' , for tire Far East. The Tsar, held a review at 1 Birsuia and urged the soldiers to win fresh I glory. The men responded with enthusiastic | cheers.	(Hotter.) (
----------'tv. .	1	1
KOREA.	1
_	t
DIFFICULT POLITICAL SITUATION.
Seoul, December 31.	1
The political situation here is very difficult 1 There have been several political meetings 1 lately. A serious riot, caused by the pro-Japa- ' nese, occurred in front ot the Palace. Twelve ' persons were shot by Korean guards. Further , rioting is expected. 'Ihe streets are filled with Japanese gendarmes.	(Heater.) 1
t
RUSSIAN REFORM MOVEMENT. \ --------------------	i
REPRESSIVE MEASURES.	<
St. Pctbraburo, Decerabor 31.
The provincial authorities are taking moa-Mires to prevent banquets which cloak reform , meetings.	(lleuter.) (
St. Petersburg, January i. ,
M. de Witte, President of the Committee of , Ministers, is actively preparing material in order to study the reforms indicated in the Tsar's manifesto. The first meeting ol the Committee will take place on the 3rd inst. (R.)
FINLAND.
A PETITION TO fllE TSAR.
Heimxgforb, Jauuary 1.
The four Estates of the Finnish Diet have decided to present a petition to the Tsar asking for the withdrawal of the Russification decree of 1903, in order to re-establish a*legal order of things in Finland.	(Heater.
Anglo-American Kile Steamer.
Sr HOTiri, i-OWPANY.
RIVER TflUISH RI rf GOODS WTWKI SltiMDRIS I CAIRO
Three Ssl'lngs e-Week.
Agen'r at AUeaedrrn i
^ UEXAhlRiA MMU WAlEMMlM CO,, 10.
VIOLENT GALE IN BRITAIN.
* NUMEROUS CASUALTIES.
London, December 31.
A violent gale swept the British Isles yes-tuiday; causing numerous casualties on land and sea. Considerable telegraphic interruption occurred. There was f. an extraordinarily high ride in the Thames and, Medway. The Victoria Embankment is inundated, and Cleopatra’s Needle is surrounded by water. (Reuter.,
INTENSE COLD IN RUSSIA.
38 DEGREES BELOW- ZERO.
St. Petersburg, January 1. Intense cold prevails in Russia. The trains are delayed. All the schools in Moscow ore closed. The thermometer marks 38* below zero .Fahr.	(Reuter., 1
. ADEN HINTERLAND.
IRADE WHOLLY UNSATISFACTORY.
London, January 1.	(
The IradiS concerning the Aden hinterland , proves to be Wholly unsatisfactory, as it widely ( modifies the British proposals. (Reuter.,
FRANCE AND MOROCCO.
Paris, December 31.	;
The Sultan of Morocco has declared to the. t French Minister that he is disposed to continue j to have recourse to the aid of the counsels ol t France. The crisis is considered as being f happily at an end.	(Havas.) 1
.............. (
THE PROGRESS OK ARBITRATION.
{
--------- 1
Paris, January 1. s At the New Year’s Day reception of the t Diplomatic Corps, M. Loubet, replying to t Count Toruielii, spoke of the progress of the a idea ot arbitration in the minds ot the peoples 1 and governments.	f Havas.,	f
*	-	r
t
LOCAL A.NL) GENERAL «
*	t
Tub As coxa Court has acquitted Mr. ( Sciplbi, accused of having accidentally killed \ the late Mr. Rossetti, tbe Cairo advocate. e — * ■	a
The Nile Cold Storage Company, Ltd.,	t
has obtained the coutract for supplying 'meat t to the British Army ot Occupation in Cairo. c
----- —-	e
Embezzlement at G. P.-O.—It has been 1 discovered tiiatsomeembezzlement has occurred 1 in the funds of the Postal Benevolent Society 1 at Alexandria, and an enquiry has been a opened.
Fatal Accident—On Saturday afternoon a Copt who was crossing the juuotion at Ataba el Khadra, Cairo, was struck by a tram and p sustained injuries	which	havo since proved o
fatal.	J
-----1----------- rj
A. L. M.,& D. S:—We are asked to remind members of tbe choral union that the practices 1 will be resumed tomorrow at the Rudolph E Asile at 6.15 p.m. In the luture rehearsals will a be on Monday evenings, at that hour.	fi
_________ 1
Cotton in Cyprus.—The question of ex- 0 tending the cultivation of cotton in Cyprus “ has lately been occupying much attention, and n last season some quantity of Egyptian cotton seed was imported	and sown.	^
la
I	Suez Canal.—Od Thursday 29th December,
II	vessels passed through the canal, 10 ot c,
which were British aud 1 Austrian. The „ receipts for the day were Ire. 165,739.56. The a] total receipts from 1st to 29th December were a 9,478,611.37.	’	„
Motor Accident. — We hear that H.H. Prince Hussein Kamel’s motor car ran down and injured a carter at tbe corner of the Sharia el Madabeghi The Arab seems to have lost his head completely, and to have rushed in front ot the	motor instead	of	getting out	ol
of the way.	■«
,■	ol
“The Cyprus Journal” for December con- j* tains, as usual, a variety ot interesting con- jt tributions more especially dealing with tiie a agriculture of tbe island.	Among other	things	,,
we find‘articles on the manuring of coitun, sheep scab, the boar, the sow, poultry notes, ^ archeological notes, etc.
——*-------------- 1
Coal Imports.—The	imports	of coal into fi
Alexandria from the 1st January to the 29th e ulto. amounted to 1,050,460 tons, as compared with 1,005,482 tons during the corresponding period last year. Of this total, NewoasUe sent 240,694 tons, tbe Welsh coaling districts 594,774 tons, tho Scotch districts 108,310 tons, and Yorkshire 58,375 tons, while the imports ^ oi other qualities came	to 48,307.	F
,	tl
Gymkhana.—We publish today the pro- * gramme of the Gymkhana to be held at Mena j House next Friday. There are nine interesting < events. '1 he sixth is an open pony race to L j ridden in colors. The band uf the imuslulluigs j will play during the afternoon, in the evening \ there will be a dance. Trams will run frequeuUj j that day to the Pyramids, the last car leaving c the Pyramids at midnight Entries for Uit ; races can be made at Mena town oftioe. Tables for luncheon at Mena-Hu use should be ordered beforehand
ROYAL VISIT TO EGYPT.
ARRANGEMENTS FOR
PUKE OF CONNAUGHT.
We hear that the Duke and Duchess of Connaught will probably arrive in Egypt on the 26th inst, and will leave again on the 27th February.
TReir Royal Highnesses, while at Cairo, will stay at Abdeen Palaoe, as the guests of H. H. the Khedive.
All the arrangements for the stay of the Duke and Duchess in Egypt have been placed in' the bands of George Nungovich Bey.
THE KHEDIVE.
The Khedive has arrived at Montazah from Cairo. His Highness will return to the Capital in a few days.
QUARANTINE IN TURKEY.
Pera, Deo. 81.
Since the departures of the 28th, pilgrim ships from Aden are subject to 10 days' quv ran tine, ships without pilgrims five days, win
disinfection and destruction of rats.
CATTLE PLAGUE.
During the week onding on Saturday last 57 deaths from bovine typhus were reported throughout Egypt- During the corresponding period last year, 7,169 deaths were reported A slight recrudescence of the disease is noted daring the last week, but this is entirely of a local character, confined to the provinces oi Gharbieh and Ghizeh.
Since the beginning of the outbreak the cattle of the localities infected and neighbouring villages have been inoculated with serum. This has always checked the development of the disease. The quantity of serum at the disposal of the Sanitary Administration is amply sufiiciunt for inoculation in case of local outbreaks, and a constant supply- is furnished by the Serum Farm. The Administration has every ground for the hope that the disease will have disappeared by the end of this year.
The serum seems to have little or no protective effect with animals coming from Cyprus, many of which, though inoculated, have succumbed to the disease. Similar experiments have been matje in India on animals coming from the mountains and from tho plains. The cattle of the plains are protected by the serum, which, however, has little or no effect on the mountain cattle, even when employed in strong doses. Under these conditions the Sanitary Administration considers i lie importation of Cypriote cattle^ as long as the epidemic lasts, to be a mistake, as these animals are sure to be infected sooner or later,
BUBONIC PLAGUE.
On Saturday two new cases of plague were reported, with a death outside hospital, at Suez, and one new case with two deaths outside hospital at Kafr el Fokaha, iu the Toukh Markaz.
During the weiek ending the 31st December, 15 cases of bubonic plague occurred throughout Egypt. An increase appears in the number or cases occurring at Suez last week. It appears from the report that I have reoeived from Dr. Cresswell and from my own observations, (says Sir H. Pinching in his report) that these cases are due to infection conveyed by rats, which had been intected themselves by goods coining from India or Upper Egypt. One of the persons attacked by plague at Suez is an assistant in a shop, which contains large quantities of indigo oomingfrom Calcutta and tea from Madras. In moving tho cases containing these goods the dead bodies of rats were found. Large quantities of beans have also been imported from Upper Egypt, where cases of plaguo occurred this year, the last of which was reported on July 81.
AN INTERESTING AUCTION.
Maitre Privat, of the Cairo Mixed Court, has issued notice of the sale by public auction of the furniture of Mr. Reich, a British -ubject, which was seized on the application ot Mustapha Ah mod, a coachman and local subject The sale will take plaoe early in January. This announcement has aroused some interest in. Cairo, as Mr. Reich was up to a few weeks ago in association with another gentleman, Mr. Bornie Mansfield, under the style of Reioh and Mansfield. A short timo back the partnership between these two gentlemen was dissolved. The sale will begin at 10 a.m. on the 6th inst at the Old Continental Hotel buildings, where are the offices and residence of Mr. Reich.
BAND PERFORMANCE.
By kind permission of Lient-CoL G. M. Mackenzie, commanding, and officers, 2nd Royal Inniskilling Fusiliers, the Band will play the following programme on the Terrace, Grand Hotel, Helouan, to-morrow afternoon from 8.15 to 6.15 p.m. :—
March— The Bride Sect—Sousa.
Overture—The Village Festival—O’Kufe. dong—Killamey—Balfo.
Selection—Vcroniqoe—Messager.
Valse—Friedens Paimen—Keler Bela.
Polaoca— Picaroon—Gran.
Selection—Tbe Toreador—Monckton.
Polka—Ionian—Mrs. Ward roper.
Regimental March.
Khedivial Anthem.
God Save the King.
BAMLFH ELECTRIC RAILWAY
THE NEW TARIFF.
The new tariff which came into force yesterday on the Alexandria and Ramleh Railway Company’s lino has aroused, a considerable amount of indignation among the inhabitants.
Mr. L H. Birch sends us the following communication on. the'subject
The directors of the Ramleh Railway Company, LtiL, have issued a notioe that no further contract tickets will be issued after 31st December, 1904, and that in place of them “carnets,” or books of tickets, will be provided at fi price whioh moro-than doubles the ooet of the yearly contract The reasons given for this new departure are :—
I.	‘That many contract holders refuse to show their tiokets to the conductors when called upon to do so, and abuse and even assault them.” The remedy for this is to send the offenders before tho 'Tribunals, and exao the penalty for their misoonduct
II.	“The oompany is now a tramway company and no such companies in Europe issue oontract tiokets.” To this the reply is that it was a railway oompany when the concession was obtained from the Egyptian Government, and if it has suited the direction to convert the railway into a tramway for their own benefit, it is no reason why the publio should be sacrificed.
The Government, having granted a monopoly to the oompauy, should .take care that this monopoly is not abused. The oontract holders are mostly old residents, and it is not only the proceeds of their tickets that benefit the oompany, but also a farther benefit accrues from the members ot their households and guezta who visit them and who do not hold contracts. What is to be the result oi this new regulation t The increased charge' is altogether immeoscrate to the service rendered by the oompany. Numbers of people will have to leave Ramleh, and rents, house property, and land will all decrease in value. It behoves everybody to protest energetically against this regulation, which is unjustifiable tfum all poiuts ol view.
This morning we interviewed one of the members rot the board of the oompany, Mr. Lunbroso, who gave os the following exposition of the directors' standpoint:—
In no ooontry in the world are there season tickets for electric trams, bnt only books of tickets. Alter the electrification of the line, and oat of consideration for the public's demands, season tickets were issued on the con-ditioii^iat every season ticket holder should have his photograph in the ticket case and should show it whensoever asked by the company's servants. But, continued Mr. Lumbroso, this system has been reudered impossible owing to the "mauvaiae volonte” of the public and of the tricks played upon the oompany by -false season ticket holders, who insulted and attacked the employes when asked to show their tickets. The directors have had to stop issuing season tiokets, and have reduced the prioe oi packets of 50 tickets for the first class from P.T. 88 to P.T. 75 and for the aeoond olass from P.T. 4J to P.T. 37$. This, said Mr. Lumbroso, was a sacrifice made by the company for the sake of the public, since on a total of about L.R 50,000 the amount realised from season tioketswasoply LE. 8,000. On the other hand, tho abonni must take into consideration the tact that if the present prioe of the books of ticket appears to be higher than the season ticket rate, the new system has the advantage of allowing them to give away the tiokets in the books to their tamiHaa and servants if they wish to.
PASSENGERS' LISTS.
ARRIVALS.
Le paquebot “Sirio" de la Cie Florio-Rubat-tino arrivi hier de G5nes avait k bord :
M.M. Lionel Sutro et tam., Bartlett et Whipple, Trukenburg, Chimm, Postorino, Amali, D. Hassan, Johniwood et Comp, H. Boidinaun et Comp., Padovani, Cemmosky, Ferguaaon etfam., Johnston et tam., Huff Sahley et Comp., Foa quet, M. et Mme S. Astern, Meyer, Adams, P Levi et Comp., Vanda Hermes, E.M. More, A. Merolli, Comte Perigord, Malvano, Ravh, J. Neille, Com. Angelini et Bennoci, Goasart et sa mfere, Aziz Aboud et Comp, et 26 passagers de 3me clave.
* Le paquebot “Cleopatra" da Lloyd Aatri-chien, arrive ce matin de Trieste avait k bord:
M. et Mme Frappier, M. et Mme Donnet, Faliansky, M. ot Mme C. Elmgren, R. Mgr. Lynch et 3 comp., M. et Mme Ranking, Baron V. Frerich, Mmo Nilsen, Kiibler, John, Zamia-trian, VegK, Florkovsky, Ni’coloivich, Hover, Kumar, Metzler, Lamberg, Kristen, Blaskle, Schmelzer, M. et Mme Hilxheimer, Gotz, Zab-stnik et 2 de fam., Horako, Rotter, Fried, Jago-vjee et fils, Gerato et 8 passagers de 3me classo.
DEPARTURES.
Le paqnebot “Semiramis” du Lloyd Antri-chien parti samedi pour Trieste avait k bord :
M.M. H. Axisa, Karl Wollanka, Ed. Heini-mann.Cap. A.Forsberg.R Jenisch, ministre pl6-nipotantiaire et oonsnl gdndral, D.A.J. Hamilton, Dinean Stewart, Mme D. Stewart, E. P. Mitchell, F. Mitchell, Gnido Kldlnohnster, M. de la Bouglise, A. Brasi, E. Debonrg, F. Box- ( baum, M. et Mme A. Barber, av. B. A. Findall, I A. Trobridge, M. et Mme Napoleaki, Mme I. | Monti Baldini, A L. Lamas, R. Mordo, Chali-Idopoulos, J. A. Fattereall, G. H. Pattison, ] Ernest Bred, Macdonald, R. Mattatia, Isidore Salto, Weiglass, R. Abdela, Tattwall, F. Fleia- i died et 10 passsgera de 3me class®.	i
Per EHertnan S. 8. "City of Cambridge,” sailed for Liverpool Saturday: — Dr. Ruth- I erford, Miss Schofield, Miss Brenn, Miss Came- < ton, Mr. Wblt#kwrf, Mr. Mundp.	,
BIGFAILUBEATALBXANDBIA
LIABILITIES £160,000.
The heavy tali in American ootton has led to the failure of one of the leading Syrian capitalists in Egypt, Mr. Selim Tawil, who belongs to a family which is well known at Alexandria, and whose business connections were very extensive. His speculations were chiefly directed to American ootton, and on Friday last he found himself unable to pay his differences. The amount he has tailed for is said to be £180,000. As the Bourse and all the banks are dosed to-day it is impossible for us to obtain complete details of the failure.
Mr. Tawil was arrested on Saturday bnt was at once released on the guarantee ot Mr. Gorra, late of the Imperial Ottoman Bank 'at Alexandria.
SAVOY SMALL DANCE.
Saturday evening’s small danoe at the Savoy was a huge suooess, and seldom, even b the very {might ot the season, has there been a more enjoyable one. Nearly all the officer* of the Army of Occupation and of the Egyptian Army were present, m well sis th*^ usual habitufe of Savoy Saturday's danoeC The restaurant was crowded both for dinner and supper. Dr. Milton gave a big dinner party. His guests numbered 18, bduding the Misses Coles, Dr. Tribe, Mr. MoGillivnay, Mr. Gre-ville, Dr. Hayward, Mrs. Pidgeon, Mr. Russell, Miss Gabriel, Miss Ball, Miss Cox, Miss Landon, Miss Joseph, Mr. Musoeli, and Mr. Soott Moncrieff. Mr. and Mrs. Bell entertained a party of 10, amongst the guests being Mr. and the Hon. Mrs. Home, Major and Miss Petre, Capt. the Hon. A Stanley, and Miss Harley. Dr. and Mrs. Page-May entertained 11 guests at dinner, Mrs. Simon had a party of 4, Capt C. H. Garrat a party of 6, aud Mr. P. W. Stout a party of 4. Mr. .and Mrs. Berners entertabed Sir John and Lady Rogers, and CoL Sir Henry Oldham dined with Major-General Ralph Allen, while Mr. Sheldon Amos had a party of 5.
Among others at the donee we observed Mrs. and Mu* Royle, Col. Matchett, Mr. P. W. Mach ell, Sir Edward and Lady Zohrab Pasha, Mr. Vboent Corbett; Dr. and Mrs. Madden, Mr. Mitchell Innes, CoL and Mrs. J. K. Watson, etc.
~	“7—
SPORT AND PLAY.
■ 1	4.
FOOTBALL
R.M.A. v. D. Coy. R. Berks Riot.
An exciting game between these two singu larly well-matched teams took place at Mustapha on Saturday last The game was a very fast one, the bail travelling swiftly from goal to goal, and there was not a dull moment throughout Result; a point]esa draw. -
KHEDIVIAL SPORTING CLUB.
The following are the weights' for the Paddock Handicap, to be run on the second day of the Cairo Second Wbter Race Meeting (January 25 and 27) :—
Sirur 8.9, Abou Arkoub 9.12, Ide 10.7, 8iham 9.8, Sadik 10.9, Latitf 9.13, Klondyke 9.12, Parhan II. 11.2, Saber 10.12, Rice 10.6, Royalist 10.12, Fantasia 10.11, Eclipse 10.5, Petit Due 8.13, Agib 10.6, Hardcase 10.2, Saus Pared 10.8, Vandal 10.6, India 9.7, Pshr 9.0, Caprioe 11.9, Viking 9.6, Amory 9.7.
G Y MKH A NA.
To BE HELD AT MkXA HOUSE ON FRIDAY, 6th JANUARY, 1905.
Entrance to Grand Stand and Enclosure .-Gentlemen P.T. 10—Ladies P.T. 5— Children Free.
Tea will be served on tbe ground free of charge.
Prizes will be given for all the events.
A Band %riU play during the qftemoon.
FIRST RACE AT 3 P. M.
Events.
1.	Donkey Race for Gentlemen.
2.	Hack Rack, Ponies and Galloways.
3.	Eoo and Spoon Race, Ladies on donkeys.
4.	Hack Race (Horses), for Gentlemen.
5.	Cigarette and Umbrblla Race on donkeys.
6.	The Mena Cup. $ mile straight For all Arabs 14.9 and under. Open race to be ( ridden in colors. 1st horse P.T. 1000, ; 2nd P.T. 200, 8rd P.T. 75.
7.	Ladies’ Hack Rack.
8.	Llotd Lindsay^Race, on Ponies.
9.	Affinity Stakes, on Horses.
There will be a danoe at 9.80 p.m. 25174-1
===========	]
STEAMER MOVEMENTS..	!
w	I
The Moss liner “Seti" sailed from Liverpool ; on Friday afternoon and is due here about ( tbe 18th inst, with passengers, mails, and , general cargo.
The Moae liner “Menee" arrived at Liver- . pool on Saturday morning.
The EHerman 8.S. “City of Cambridge” sailed on Sunday morning direot for Liverpool ' with passengers and a full oargo, including ‘ 5,169 hales ootton.	I1
Tbe Menageries Maritime* 8.8. “Niger,” 1 from Marseilles, passed the 8traits of Mnsina < on Saturday and is due here to-morrow j morning.	11
l CONSTANTINOPLE NOTES.
(From our owe CoEEEEPdNDEirr).
JUDGE SAUSMAREZ’8 DEPARTURE
>	Constantinople, December 27.
Judge and Mr*, de Sausmarac left Cons-
i tantbople for London last Tuesday. Their , departure is a cause of general regret, and r the very large gathering of friends at'the - station to see them off boro testimony to i their great popularity b this city. It is not . only a learned judge that the Constantinople
>	and Egyptian Bar lose* b the person of Mr. i de 8au*mare*/but also one1 who, during his i tenure of office, has displayed merits of
a high order b the cause of justice and b i the btonets of litigants.
GREEK-CATHOLIC PATRIACH.
On Friday last, after the oeremony ot the Selamlik, H. B. Mgr. Cyril, GnebCbtbolio Patriarch at Alexandria, was moored man-r dience by the Sultan, to lay the expression of I his homage and devotion at the foot of tbe Im-v penal throne and to take leave on the occasion f of his return to Alexandria. Tha departure of i the Patriarch will take plaoe b a fortnight,
I last Saturday. Mgr. Cyril paid a visit to Mgr. Ennaian, Armenian Patriarch at Coustan-1 tinople. He also visited, with his suite, the . Armenian Cathedral at Coum-Capu.
i	-—
PERSIAN MISSION.
Aly Ekler Khan, brother of the Persian Am*
1 bassador here, Futhollah Khan, military atta-chd, and Aly Asgher Khsa, attach* of the Per-1 sian Embassy, arrived here last week from St.
' Petersburg. They are the members ol the special ' mission sent by the Shah of Persia to the Tsar,
1 and will prooeed very shortly to Cairo on a visit to H.H.’ the Khedive. They ere awaiting 1 the arrival of thp Persian Ambassador at Con-| btantbople, who will be the bead of the mission.
|	PERSONAL
The betrothal is announoed from Smyrna of Miss Effie Cbarnaud, daughter of Mr. Edwin Oharnaud, chief inspector of the Ottoman Publio Debt, with Mr. Henry Williamson, of Cairo. The bride is tbe niece of Mr. Cbarnaud,
' direotor of the Tobaooo Regie here.
The news of the death at Mr. Hioks, manager of tifo Imperial Ottoman Bank’s agency at Cairtx was reoeived here with much regret, Mr. Hicltj.baving been very popular. Hissuoceasor hae not yet been appobted.
PEHB0NALAN1) SOCIAL
The rush of well-known people to Egypt after the New Year promisee to be exceptionally heavy. Plans are already being disarranged and rearranged, owist to the difficulty of scouring berths on steamers. The Earl and ; Cuuuteoo ol Dalbousio, who ore going up the Nile, accompanied by Miss Margaret Fraser, have had to postpone their departure from England for this reason.
The Earl of Cromer will probably retain from his Nile trip on the 20thinst
Lady Arthur Russell and Miss Russell are qxpeoted at Cairo from tho Fayoum b the oourse of the week.
M. and Mme Maximoff are leaving for the Upper Nile about the middle of this month.
M. and Mme. Boolini&re will also visit the Upper Nile and perhaps the Sudan b February,
The celebrated American artist, Mrs. Ann. Louise Blanchard, of New York, arrived b Cairo yesterday. The wife of one of the* most prominent members of the Diplomatic Corps has arranged to give sittings to Mrs. Blanchard for a portrait m oils.
Mr. Charles Betts, the well-known, stockbroker at Alexandria, has entered bto partnership with Mr. Otto Sohmidt, the son-b-law of the late Mr. Mioallef.
The Dannanin family thank all those who attended the funeral of tho late Antonio Darmanin, or who b other ways showed sympathy in their bereavement, as well as Messrs. Allen, Aldezson & Co. and the whole of the firm's staff.
Among the latest arrivals at the Savoy Hotel, Port Said, we notioe Miss von Goldacker, Dr. Baissler, Mr. R Colebrooke and Miss Colebrooke, Mr. Melas, Dr. B. Moritz, Mr. H. Sohwesle, Prof. Dr. H. Bitter, Vioomte de Fon-taroc, Mr. Reynolds, Commandant Sohwanok, Baron Oppenheim, Ma Anders, Mr. Morgan, Mrs. Collins, Mrs. Schailk, Messrs. 1<»m4«
NOTICE
IS HEREBY GIVEN that all persons havirg any claims or demands upon or against the Estate of EDMUND KELLY DE WILTON BEY, late of Sues, Egypt, deceased ,who died at Cairo on 25th Mareh, 1908) are required to send in particulars of their claims or demands to the undersigned Leon Carton de Wlart, Advocate, Cairo, Attorney for the Executrix under | the will of tbe deceased, on or before the 81st day of January. 1906, after which date he wlU proceed to distribute the assets of the deceased and will not be , liable for the assets or any part thereof so distributed to any person of whose claim he shall not then have had notioe.
I Dated this 29th day of December, 1804.
25172-4M	«♦	Oi***	N	WttM,
»