TUB EGYPTIAN GAZETTE, 1UB8DAT, JANtflfcY &, 1305.
«
PORT ARTHUR FALLS.
SURRENDER OF GARRISON HOSTILITIES SUSPENDED.
SHIPS BLOWN UP
T0K10 REJOICINGS.
MIKADO’S TRIBUTE TO STOESSEL.
Tokio, January 3.
General Nogi reporta that bo baa received a letter from General Stoessel relating to the surrender of tbo fortress.
Tho Japanese stormed and captured Wantai Fort yesterday.	( Reuter,	j
Tokio, January 2.
It is understood that hostilities at Port Arthur are suspended to-day, and tho Russian and Japanese Chiefs of tho Staff are to meet at noon at Shunahiying, in order to discuss the question of tho surrender.
General Stoesscl has written to General Nogi saying that any further resistance is useless.
The Mikado has telegraphed to General Nogi extolling General Stoessel and ordering that all military honors bo shown to him.
(ttmUr.)
Tokio, January 1.
General Stoessel has proposed to General Nogi, and tho latter has accepted, to negotiate the surrender of tho place.	(lianas.)
Chi-Fit, January 2:
General Stoesscl wrote yesterday to General Nogi saying that all further resistance was useless and asked to capitulato.
The Russian and Japahcso negotiators met at noon and separated at 4 o'clock.
The Russians accept the conditions proposed.
Hostilities are suspended.'
The Russians blow up soveral forts and ships in the morning.	(Hanoi, >
. Tokio, January 2.
Immense rejoicings are taking place in tho town.	(Reuter./
Tokio, January 2.
The capitulation of Port Arthur is causing great enthusiasm.
The Mikado has ordered homage to bo paid to General Stoessel. *	(Havas.)
Tokio, January 2.
General Nogi informed General Stoessel that he agreed to appoint negotiators provided that the commissioners oh both sides have full powers to sign an immediate capitulation. Meanwhile, hostilities have been suspended.
(Liter). Tho negotiations lasted from noon until 4.30 p.m. Arrangements havo been concluded to sign an act of capitulation. The Japanese terms have been accepted. (Reuter.)
AWFUL CONDITION OF THE TOWN.
Cm-Fc, January 2.
(Midnight). The “Rctvisan," the “Poltava," and tho " Pallada " caught fire at Port Arthur in the morning; they were still burning during the a.temoon. Tho Russians blew up the “ Sevastopol."
Tho Russian offioers state there are 16,000 sick and wounded at Port Arthur. Many I soldiers are lying in the streets, as the hospitals have been shattered by the shells. The garrison numbers 6,000, most ol whom are convalescents.
(Reuter.)
RUSSIAN SHU’S AT CHI-FU.
Chi-Fu, January 2.
Four Russian destroyers and a launch entered tho harbour. A bundlo of despatches was taken ashore.	(Renter.)
Cin-Fu, January 2.
Three largo Japanese destroyers have entered the harbour.	(Reuter.)
Chi-Fu, January 2.
The Russian destroyers have disarmed, and the Japauese have consequently loft the harbour.	(Reuter.)
Tbihotac, January 2.
Two Russian destroyers and a merchantman with 800 soldiers have reachod hero. (Reuter.)
OPINION ON THE FALL
LitfDOH, January 2.
The oonoensus of opinion in diplomatic circles is that tho fall of Port Arthur will only bo a fresh incentive to renew the struggle more vigorously. Russia will not spare any efforts to recapture it, or compel its submission indirectly. The only reservation in this opinion is the internal condition of Russia, whioh is tho dominant factor of tho situation. (R.)
WINDSOR HOTEL
Largest 1st class and most comfortable Hotel in Alexandria. Facing the sea, Central position. Under English management
PMMN
BALTIC FLEET.
ARRIVAL AT MADAGASCAR.
8aihtb Marik (Madagascar), January 2. Admiral Rodjeetvousky’s squadron anchored here yesterday. Tho vessels are all in excellent condition despite violent storms after leaving tho Cape.	(Reuter.)
LEGION OF HONOUR.
LOCAL APPOINTMENTS.
Paris, Jannaiy 2. M.M. Provost and Chdlu have been made Chevaliers of-the Legion of Honour. (Bantu.)
LOCAL ANDGENERAL/
Tub Battle or Flowers will take place at Ghezireh Palate on Thursday.
Post Office.—Ahmed Effendi Helwa, from the Cairo Post Office, has beat appointed Inspector of Damanhonr District
The Maltese Bksevolkkt Society has opened a subscription among the Maltese merchants at Alexandria tor gifts in kind on the oooasion of the Now Year.
The Khkdivial Yacht "Mahroussa" left Alexandria yosterday for Glasgow for tho purposo of being fitted with turbines. Sho is expected to remain away for at losst a year, during which time the yacht will be considerably improved.
Suez Canal.—16 vessels passed through the Canal on the 30th insL.the receipts for the day being fre. 447,660.46. 9 of the ships were British, 1 Turkish, 1 Austrian, 1 French, 1 Norwegian, 3 German. The receipts from 1st to ; 30th December wore fra. 10,761,600.69.
Merchant Seamen’s Home.— buly Blom-field begs to acknowledge tho receipt from Mr. -G. B. Aldoreon of throe turkeys and plum puddings, and from Dr. and Mrs. Morrison of a turkey and a cake for the ’Xmas treat. Miss 1 Swau acknowledges the fallowing contribu- ] tions :—Mrs. Ambroiao Zervuilachi, £1; Miss 1 Coustantiuidcs, £1 ; Mrs. Michel Sinadino, 1 10s.; Mrs. A. Benachi, 10s.; Mrs. Coroni, £1. '
New Year’s Gifts.—On tho occasion of tho Now Year, M. Ninci) director at Alexandria of thoSucrenes et lUtlwcriod'Rgyp w, presented a sack of sugar (o each of tho following institu- j cions : Homo for tho Aged (Scours tic. Charles C Buromde), German Cacholio School (ditto), t European Hospital, Greek Hospital, Jewish a Hospital,Government Hospital,Rudolph Home, 1 Girls’ Crphauago (Stt-ure St. Vinoent de Paul), i Boys' Urphauage (ditto), Foundlings’ Home, ■ Aloharrem Boy.	I
,	i
Restriction of Street Traffic is Cairo. * —The poUoe no louger allow camels and heaviiy- 1 laden trucks to obstruct Cairo’s principal * streets.. The originator of this much-needed * rule is to bo highly commanded. Many street " obstructions havo recently been modified * through the efforts ol the Tauzim Department, 1 notably at the Round Point, Kaor-el-Nil Bridge 1 entrance, Utiuoreh, which had long boon a v nuisance to tho hundreds of carriages which pass that point daily.
Sailors and Soldiers' Institute. — The a following contributed tho presents which were a competed for by the boys of the Berkshire I Regiment at the Institute on Friday last:— t Major and Mrs. Gamble, Major and Mrs. e Finch, Egyptian Gazette, Mr. F. G. Froewau, d Rev. Norunui-Lee, Mr. W. N. Perkins, Mr. J. a F. Letts, Mr. F. H. Manley, Mr. J. Fleet, Mr. s J. H. Marsdeu, Mrs. Lawrence, Mr. W. Che- " valier, Mr. J. Stanley Dorling, Lee. CorpL • H. Morley, Lee. Curpl. H. New, Mr. 8. James ’’ Dawson, Mr. C. Pritchard, Mr. W. Rainbow, b Miss Pattinsou.	v
Amateur Theatricals.—Thoperformanco in v Cairo of “The Pirates of Fenianoe" has been u postponed, owing to the temporary absence of si Lieut. Franklin, the musical director, in Khar- a toum". It will now probably take place about o the third week iu February. Tho respite is ap- h predated by tho members of the troupe, as it was felt that tho time allotted to the rehear- o sals in tho first instenoe was somewhat short a The delay will afford Major Delavoye more n soopo for the development ol stage effects, aud o tho performance will thus be ns fiuishod from a si dramatio as from a musical point of view—a b requirement not always sufficiently considered « in tbo representation of comic operas by b amateurs.	ti
1	»	e
STEAMER MOVEMENTS.	e
The SB. "Octa,” of the Westoottand Ian- / ranee Line, left Malta yesterday and is due tJ on Friday with general oargo from Antwerp p and London.
Tho Cunard 8.8. "Tyria” is due he^e to- * morrow and will immediately begin loading 0 cargo for Liverpool and American ports. j, The Ellerman 8.8. “Avon” sailed from Malta f< this morning, and is expected in Alexandria j on Friday evening with passengers, mails, and _ general oargo.	^
EDEN PALACE HOTEL, -
OAlUU.
Open aU the yeas- round.
luoTmo umt. - lift. - iobmumiiurob I
THB KHEDIVE
The Khodive has boeu pleased to bestow the following ranks and decorations on the under-
• mentioned gentlemen:—
Medjidith, Grand Officer (2nd class): BrowB-ter Bey.
Medjidith, Commander (3rd class): Ahmed KhaJry Boy, master of ceremonies.
Chevalier (6th class): Mohamod Ibrahim Effendi. Alimad Bl-Azhari Effondi, Mohamad Abd-el-Wahed Effendi, of the Khedive's telegraph offioo.
Osman it)., Offioer (4th class): Dr. Hassan Mobarram Bey and Dr. Sadek Ramadan Boy, ol the Khedive's medical staff.
Sanieh (Bey): Ahmed Ismail Bey, chief cashier to thoKhedivo.
Salissah ■. Mohamod Cherif Effendi, secretary of tho cabiuot of ceremonies.
On Accession Day (Sunday next) hie Highness will bold a reception at Abdoen Palace, commencing at 8.80 a.m.
Tbo Khedivah will also receive European ladies from 3.80 to 4 p.m. and the wives of ; diplomatic agents at 4.20 p.m.t at Koubbeh Palace.
The order of the rooeption will be published 1 iu to-morrow’s issue.	1
-------- , 1
THE FINANCIAL ADVISEE
Our exoellont confrere, the Pkar^d Alexan-drie, makes tho following conciliatory remarks > on tho auiturnouts as to the Helienio oolouy of Alexandria and hashish smuggling, contained ( in tho report ol the Pinanotal Adviser- — j “...cn oo qui ccnoerno la oritiquo iudirocto , adreesfe par lo Oonseiller Financier a uno par . tio do la CommunauuS Hellthnque, il est trta j certain qu’il ne taut voir Ik qu'une fauto de style, uno erreur de Redaction. Nous savona , mioux quo pereonno oombien M. Corbett ost t ami doe Hulliues et ddvouti k leur cause. 11 fut pendant plusieure anuses commissaire do la , Dotte k Atbeucs et s’y montra le plus cbaleu- ( reux des Fhilhelfenes. Sos sentiments n’out ( pss variii depuu ; mais sa plume aura trahi sa peuado. Ou pout lo regrettor; nous aurious c mauvaise grtco k 1’eu critiquer.”
" 1 -	a
. THE POSTMASTER GENERAL.
----i:
We are officially authorised to state that the 0 announcement made to-day by a Cairo morning * papor “on very good authority" that Saba Fa- “ sha, tho Postmaster General, had tendered his j1 resignation, is absolutely without any founds- *' tion whatsoever.	D
----------------------- u
.IMPORTANT APPOINTMENT. * |	n
We learn that Dr. W. St. C. Symmers, J professor of pathology and bacteriology at the f( School of Modicino at Kaar-el-Aini, is about to leave Egypt to take up an important appointment in pathology at Belfast. The Egyptian Government will feel the loss of a vaiuablo servant, for Dr. Symmera, daring his sojourn in this country, has established for “ Himself a well-earned reputation as a scientific 8 worker of great capacity and thoroughness. 8 For his work at the Serum Institute for bovine typnus at Abbassieh the oountry owes him a T special uebt ot grautude. H.H. the Khedive Has already tea tided his appreciation ol Dr. u oymmers’ services in this connection by " presenting him with a handsome set ot L diamond solitaires. Dr. Bymmers’ many tneuds bi in Egypt will bear of his approaching departure wiUi regret.
ASSIOUT TRAINING COLLEGE Tho event of the Fall semester closing exercises of Assiout Training College was the Si contest between the Forum and Kiddonian p, Literary Societies. The representatives of the « two societies, elected some months ago, contest- p, ed for honors in declamation, oration, and oi debate. The Kiddonian society won tho oration H and the debate, giving them five points out of gi six. The subjects of the two orations were Hi "The Power of Oratory" and "Woman’s Power al and Influence.” The question for debate was b; "Resolved, that a final victory for Japan would dl bo more beneficial to tho world than a final ,y notary for Russia."	G
A feature of thooocaaion was the music, 8. vocal aud instrumental, furnished by local b( talent, assisted by Miss Dysart of Cairo. The ar singing ot the college glee olub was thoroughly enjoyed by all, and showed a great advance over anything the club has given in public heretofore.
A large number of the English-speaking community ot Assiout were present, as the exercises were aU in English. Every one was n ready to oougratulate tho two societies and the p, co 11 ego upon the great improvement in oouipo- re sitiou aud style aud delivery which was shown hs by the oontest, since tho orations aud debate *a wore entirely original productions by the °I students, with praotioally no changes mado by ^ tho teachers. The two societies meet regularly w each week, and tho results of careful drill and re experience were quite manifest.	he
The college has enjoyed a very prosperous n<j session, with an attendance of 550 students.
A large now dining-room is being erected for the better accommodation of the boarding de-partment. The staff of instructors now numbers twouty-three regular teachers, eleven of whom ru are Americans. A valuable addition to the of oorps was made this Fall, to tho oollege hav- “ ing scoured Miss Strothers, reoently of Boston, “ for instruction in art and penmanship, and Miss Moore, of Pennsylvania, os matron. $,|
BECK & CO’S PILSENER BEER S
UKUAIKK.	3r
THB WORLD-WIDE KMOWH THB BB87 ed OMalnahl* treat every Rreeewtakla Fires. de orasswna urn to U.HIUHIT, P. MICAUiF,aoto Arrev PM,	U,iaRMiwM
EGYPT* TRA.DE. NOVEMBER RETURNS.
Tho imports during the month kept up their usual rate of increase, whioh has been suoh a noticeable featureof this year's customs returns. During November there was an increase of LE 794,898 over the figures for tho corresponding month last year. Last November tho imports amounted to LE 2,447,129, as against LE 1,652,231 b November, 1903. If December's imports showed a similar power of expansion the total imports for the year will show an berease of close upon LE 4,000,000 over last year. Up to the end of November the imports amounted to LE 18,140,838, as •gainst LE 15,033,399, an increase ofLE 3,107,439. The total exports during these eloven months amount to LE. 18,201,952, an boreaso of LE 1,705,241 over and above the figures for the oorreepondbg period in 1903. The exports for November amounted to L.E 2,666,967, a decrease of LE 884,857 on November last year. This falling off is mainly b cotton exports, whioh decreased b value to the extent of LE 284,589, and ootton seed exports, whioh decreased by LE 70,432 compared with the figures for the previous November.
EGYPTIAN GOLD DEMAND.
Tho Statist understands that tho Egyptian demand for gold is practically satisfied, whioh is entirely contrary to tho general anticipation. For some years past Egypt has been taking larger and larger amounts, and has been sending back loss and loss. It was generally supposed that she would do the same this past year. As a matter of fact, she has taken exceptionally little.
The general explanation given is that Egyptian capitalists have been buying Egyptian bonds and Egyptian securities of ail sorts b the London market upon a very large scale—upon so large a scale, in fact, that to all intents and purposes their purchases havo counterbalanced the amount doe to Egypt on aooount oi her exports.
If tho explanation bo oorreot, it is interesting from two points of view: firstly, from the evidenoo it affords ot the growth of woalth in Egypt. In all countries which have debts held b largo amounts abroad, tho natives begin to buy back those debts as soon as they advance in prosperity. Egypt, apparently, is doing this now. In the aeooud place, it relieves the London market from one drab for gold. True, gold shipments after the turn of the year will not cause as much inconvenience as they would have caused during the past two or three months. Still it is well that the demand for the metal for abroad should decline.
THE TAWIL FAILURE
It has been decided to have a liquidation “k l’amiablo" b the case of the failure of Mr. Selim Tawil. Messrs. Gorra, Sofio, and Deb-bane have been appointed liquidators.
It is estimated that the aasets of Mr. 8ellm Tawil amount to LE 750,000 and the liabilities to LE 700,000. Bren if this estimate is not oorrect it is thought that the liabilities will be sufficiently ooverod or even at the lowest estimate a dividend of 90 per cent, will bo deolarod.
ZIZINIA THEATRE
“ADRIANA LECOUVRBUR.”
There was a largo house at tho Zixbia on Saturday and again last night to witness the performance of Maestro Cilea’a new opera, which met with a huge success. 8igna. Angelica Pandolfini’s interpretation of the title rOlo was me deserving of tho highest commendation. Her singing and acting were imbued with a peat degree of originality and intelligence, and lier rendering ol the death scene was admir-ible. Signa. A. Pandolfini was ably supported by Sig. Bravi, who made an excellent Count le Saxe. Tho baritone Nani, b the rile ot Michonnet, also scored a distinct success. Sig. Saletti-Gianoli, as Prince de Bouillon, Signi. Sab, Poglia, and Rossbi were also at their test. The “mise en seine" was as good as ever md tho orchestra b fine form.
“STRIKE” AT THE VERDL
DEPARTURE OF THE ARTISTES.
The strike of the artistes of the Verdi theatre, Cairo, has terminated b a most on-atiafactory manner the majority of the oom-<auy having announced their determination to eturn to Italy as soon as possible and laving refused to accept the modified errns offered by tho management In onr •pinion, they have had every reason to feel ggrieved at their treatment both by the liroction and the Cairo pnblic. Tbo oompany raa a very strong one, oontainbg artistes of Bally superior quality to any wo nave reeently . loard at tho Khodivial Opera Honse, but • lone the less they failed almost entirely to . ittrmet tho steady attendance of the music-oving public. Certain performances drew ' argo audiences, but b the main the results 1 rere disappointing b the extreme.	<
We attribute this b part to the want of < officient advertisement, and to the methods i •f tho tioketoffioe, which were not always f a courteous as might be wishod, but , ho blame lies mainly on the publio, who . fere very ready to applaud a performance 1 iven last night for the benefit of the artistes ’ rbo are leaving Egypt, but never gave them « hat oontinned support which would havo mado t boir departure unnecessary. Last night’s per- a arm an oo was very successful It consisted of the ird act of A ida, whioh was excellently perform-d,acts \TomTmtiatauDdTrovatore,ihoDanxa 3 WL Ore from (jioconda, and the fourth act of ; Hello. Tbs artistes were ail at that? beat and • rs mu.t again express oar regret at ths debacle I •o excellent a company,	c
KHBD1VIAL A8BICULTUBAL 80CI8TY.
The following correspondence passed between the Minister of Finenoo and the President of tho Khodivial Agricultural Society with regard to the new oooatitatioo of the latter,:— 8b,—Since the formation, b 1898, of the Khodivial Agricultural Society, b which the Government took an active part, the bterest shown by aU clasaea of the oomm unity in the , agricultural development of the oountry has largely increased. The various measures adopted by the 8ocbty—such as the organisation ol shows, the distribution of seed and manure, and the publicity given to kindred subjects through the medium of the Society's journal-have given e stimulus to all matter* relating to the cultivation of the aoil. Egypt being essentially an agricultural oountry, the general welfare of the oultivator must always be an object of the utmost solioitude to the Government, which during reoent years ha* continued to aid the Society both financially and otherwise.
From time to time, the dosirability of oreat-bg a Ministry of Agriculture baa been urged, but the Government is of opinion that, for the preaent et all event*, greater benefits will result from an extension of the work of the Society on oertain lines. The principal defect in the pest has lab b the fact that the central admbiatration of the 8ociety and the cultivators were not b touoh. In considering any now scheme of development, this pobt is one whioh should reoeire serious attention.
After a careful study of tho existing Statutes of tho Sodoty, tho Government has drafted, for the consideration of members, e series of revised Statutes of whioh I have tho honor to enclose a oopy. This documont will be found to indicate generally the changes which, b the opinion of the Government, it is advisable to introduce bto the organisation of the 8ocbty.
It is suggested that, b accordance with Article 21 of the present Statutes, a general meeting of members of the Society should bo convoked, and that the proposed changes should be submitted to them for approval. Should the Statutes be adopted either b their entirety or with such modifications as the So-oioty may oonsider desirable and as the Government may approve, tho Govoromont is prepared to still further berease the annual subvention now granted to the Soaiety, b order that they may be put bto force.
It is proposed that the Moudirieh Delegations to which reference is made in Articles 13, 14 and 15 of the amended Statutes, should be substituted for those now existing.b the Moudirieh towns of Gharbieh, RWH.
Minia. Competent Secretaries for other Moudirieha are not at present available, but as opportunities occur a gradual extension will be made b this direction, and the Government will, if nooessary, consider tho advisability of proportionately increasing tho subvention. In tho meantime, the Society may engage students who havo obtabod thoir diplomas from the School of Agricnltuae: and those gentlemen, being placed ou the Society’s experi-1 mental farms, aud allowed to participate b the general work, will, b tho oourse of a year or so, bocome oompetent to act as Secretaries to additional Moudirieh Delegations.
Tho extension thus given to the work ol the 8ociety will neoesaitato the appointment of an asiiatant to the present Secretary, as well as that of a paid Accountant in the offioo. To moot this berease of expenditure, as well as to provido for the three Moudirieh Delegations to which allusion is made above, the Government is prepared to grant a sum of LE 3,000 annually in addition to the subvention now aocordod.
The question of the establishment of a Statistical Bureau, for tb? oolleotion of information relating to crop areas and general agricultural returns, b which the Society is greatly interested, is at present occupybg the attention of the Government.
The Government will bo glad to learn in due course the result of tho deliberations or members, in order that the proposed changes, if adopted, may be put bto fore* from January 1st, 1905.
I am to add that the Government would view with pleasure the election of Your Highness as President of the Society and also of the Executive and General Committees ; of H.H. i Prinoe Ibrahim Pasha Hihny and of H.R Riar ; Pasha as Vice-Presidents of the General Committee ; of H.E Chawarby Pasha and Mr. Gibson as Vice-Presidents, and of Mr. Carey as ; Assistant Vioe-President of tho Executive Committee. The Government would suggest tho j nomination of Mr. G. P. Foaden, tho present r Secretary of the Society, as Secretary General	(
I have the honour to be, etc.	(
8igned: Auxin Maxloum,	(
Minister of Finance.	j
(Translation),	j
Excellency,
I have the honour to acknowledge receipt of ! four letter No, 841, dated 98rd November, 1904, oontainbg the changes which thb' Go-reroment deems advisable to introduce into the Admbiatration of tho Society. This letter, together with the proposed now Statutes of 0 the Society which accompanied it, formed the * inbject of deliberation at a mooting of onr Jeneral Committee held under my presidency jn December 3rd last The changes proposed iroro reoeived with great satisfaction by the I Society, and the Statutes, with the exoeption if one or two xnbor changes which the 8ociety hinks will render them more perfect, and irhich, under cover and separate letter I hare v wmrnunioated to your Excellency foroonaidera- «" ion by tho Government, were unanimously •dopted.	~
In aooordanoe with the request contained in ( •our Excellency’s letter, and in conformity with Lrt 21 of the existing Statutes of the Society,
• general meeting of members was held on tewnber 6th last, at whioh the members ordially approved of the ohasgea propos'd, a
and confirmed the daemons takas by tha Com-mittae of the Society at its matting of tha 3rd test The Society Us assured that tha step*
taken by the Govepmantto bcreaaa Its sphere of usefulness will result b a much greater interest being taken b its work by agrieultur-«ta generally. Through the medium of the proposed Moudirieh Delegations, tha stew taken bythe soaiety to aid cultivators ba practical manner will rewire greater publicity and the society feels assured that greater advantage will bo taken of them.
The members of tho society view with great pleasure the oontinoed interest which the Government takes b its work, and it is a great •pleasure for me, as president of the society, to be the interpreter of the oordial votes and thanks which were paired at the meetings over which I had the honor to preside.
I have the honor to be, eto.
Signed : Husemi Kamki.,
„.	„	President.
Hu Excellency The. Minister of Finance, Cairo.
(Translation).
PERSONAL AND SOCIAL/
Judge Halton is staying at the Mena House Hotel
Over 100 tourists have arrived at Shop-hoard’s Hotel from the North German Lloyd 8.8. “Friedrich der Grouse." Among them w* uotioe Comte de Pdrigord, Hon. Mrs. Sackvllle West, Freiherr von Bernewits, Commertienrath Sohott and family, Mr. and Mr*. Clay Evans, Mr. E A. Pinkerton and family, Mr. JuL Rothschild, Mr. Lais de Sommers and fondly, Baron de la Huerta, Mr. J. P. Frank and Mr*.
E E Frank, Mr. Iiooel Sutro and family, Mr. and Mrs. A. Frappier, Mr. and Mr*. L Donne!, etc.	_•
Captain E M. K. Parsons, Governor Military Prison, Cairo, left for Khartoum on Sun- • day ou inspection duty.
Mr. MacPherson Grant, agent at Alexandria for the Sudan Government Railways, is returning with his bride to Egypt on the 16th insl
Mr. Arthur Fowler, of the firm of John ‘ Fowler & Co. of Leeds, who paid a visit to Egypt last month, has arrived at Railhead on the Abyssinian Railway. He is on his way to pay a visit to the Emperor Menelik b order to advise the Negus on the subject of traction engines. Menelik bad previously given this firm an order for a dozen traction engine*
The appobtments of Ravenscroft Bey, Mr.
H.	M. Anthony, Mr. Olowea, and Mr. Mao-docald are officially confirmed.
Lieut A. C. K. MagOl, 2nd Boyal Innia-killtog Fusiliers, has been appointed District Signalling Offioer, Egypt
Mr. Richmond, Inspector of Publio Buildings, has been appobted a member of the Superior Provincial Council, Ministry of the bterior.
We are requested to state that Mr. Metbold, and not Judge Ingle Joyoe, was tho barrister in whore chambers Judge Vanx read at
bnoob’s Inn.
The following passengers left Cairo by the "Hataaoo" on Friday for the Nile trip Mr. and Mrs. Rankine, Mr. and Mrs. C. Gudrin, Miss Milner, Mire Handley, Mr. and Mrs. H. Morel Journal, Mr. and Mis. A. T. "romptoh. Miss S. E Crompton, Mrs. J. E Webster, Miss N. M. Artindale, Miss Artbdale, Mr. and Mrs. Paoe, Mrs. Grotjohan, Mrs. Gindre, Mr. E F. Pearson, Mr. de Corta, Dr md Mrs. Goldschid, Dr. H. von Portheim.
The following were the passengers by the ’Prinoe Abbas,” whioh left 8hellal on New Year’s Day: Mr. and Mr*. H. Whitahouae. Miss Ringer, Miss M. Ringer, Mr. aad Mrs.
EL W. Cooke Taylor, Col. and Mrs. Rolleston,
Dr. A. Turati, Mr. Robert Hunter Dunn, Mr.
I.	Clover, Miss Chamber lab, Miss K. Cham-wrlain, Mr. Joseph Walton, M. P., Mr. Max bull, Mrs. G. Scull, Miss J. E Muntz.
Amongst the latest arrivals at the Eastern Exchange Hotel, Port 8aid, are Mr. P. F. Yoodeock and family, Mr. and Mrs. McNut, ilr. J. Grandy, Miss C. Barney, Mr. and Mrs.
’. Roberta, Mr. A. Beman, Mr. 8. L Washing- -on, Mr. J. Oldham, Mr. J. Bergman, Mr. J. Irey, Mr. W. Summers, Capti C. C. Hook, Mr. nd Mrs. W. J. Powell, Mr. J. 8wanson, Mr.
. M. Little, Mr. W. Abbot, Miss Whrele, Mr.
I. R Diokaon, Capt. Bennett
NOTICE.
To All Whom it Mat Cosckhk.
The Grand Rabbi of Alexandria has pro-tranced a decree of divoroe under date of eoember 28, 1904, between Mr. 8ilvio Roaen-wg and his wife nde Ernestine Polack. _____________________________ 95178-1
JARLTON HOTEL.
Balk el ey, Ramlth.
NAM SAMS*	O^tOPnjWA.
IAIB0 WAND HAHHHAW.