   

flan-4m :

- ”*ﬁ _

 

 

 

BELOW THE CATARACTS

on the Christians and the Jews. He enforced the
sumptuary laws, which for a long time had been in
abeyance; the Copts being obliged to wear blue
cloaks and black turbans, while the cloak of the
jew had to be yellow and his turban black as that
of the Christian. To distinguish them still more
from the true believer, a heavy cross had to hang
from the neck of one, and a black ball from that
of the other. Though it is long since these laws
have been enforced, I cannot recall ever having
seen either a Christian or Jew in a white
turban, which is the one most commonly worn by
the Moslem.

We now follow the “Derb e1 Ahmar,” the
street on the left as you emerge from the gate, and
take one more look at El Muaiyad’s minarets,
which are here seen dominating a group of
mouldering old houses, whose creamy colour they
carry up into the blue.

Here I have often seen an old man bending
under the weight of a large pitcher of water slung
across his back ; the mouth of this vessel is closed
with a rag stopper, but a metal spout rising from
its shoulder projects above that of the man, who,
by bending a little more, allows the water to trickle
into a cup he holds in his hand. A passer by will
often drain this cup and only reward him with a
blessing, and this seems to satisfy the old man, for

44

 

 
 

 
   
    
 
 
   
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
   
     
    
    
   
    
  

IN THE STREETS OF CAIRO

ﬁll it repeating the
notice him. Mv

- e old man’s song.
the opening verse of
“ .ranslatcd as follows '
Ho, every one that thirsteth, come ye to th'
water, and he that hath n ’5

‘1'

- f streets and a char '
. our right with so i ' mmg 3613110“
. _ me pretty tiles and a rich] —

ﬂoured ceiling ; another mosque on your left d
come to the beautiful one of El—Merd::i
J’spmrlnoﬁsque was In a deplorable state of mix;
'23..“5‘.‘ Orst saw it, and though most artists 15 ht
u _ ofﬁnewloy-restored buildings, I rejoice tit
Angstrlmrssjon for the preservation of Aral)
4-5

 

