 

 

’

 

L

BELOW THE CATARACTS

them. Away across the marshes to our right the
sun was now setting in serenest splendour. Not a
fleck of cloud upon the sky, but, above us, the
most gloriously pure tints of azure, which, towards
the west, imperceptibly toned into fa1nt green,
fainter aquamarine, and pale lemon, and then was
merged into a wealth of golden Splendour? the
whole indescribably calm, clear and majestic 1n

effect.

“Oh. East is East, and West is West, and never the twain shall
meet.

Even here upon the water, ere ever we had
landed, all was strange and picturesque. Scarcely
had our ship settled herself into place before- a
score of small boats clustered round her, ﬁlled Wlth
eager, gesticulating natives, with goods for barter ;
fruit and cigars, beads and feathers; others
bringing boys, who, for few pence, would 'make
wondrous dives beneath the ship, appearing a
moment later, with white teeth all agleam, on the
other side of the great vessel. In one boat the
rowers were chanting a native air from which a
once-popular London music—hall refrain-was taken,
“ Ta—ra—ra—boom de aye 1” How famillar, and yet
how strange, heard here, in these surroundings.

Then, gliding ominously towards us 1n the
evening light, came a string of broad barges,

4.

 

PORT SAID

black, black, from stem to stern; bearing black
cargo, and all alive with moving, chattering black
atoms, looking like doomed creatures from the
nether world—the coal barges, already on their
way to replenish the dark, yawning cavern in our
vessel’s midst, with food for the mighty monster
lurking there, whose ﬁercely throbbing heart was
stilled for a Space.

Their advent meant the closing of the port—
holes and doors of the ship, to exclude, as far
as possible, the all-penetrating coal dust; so we
hastened to collect our belongings and to steer our
course in the direction of the gangway, for it was
now necessary to prepare to put foot on the shore
of Egypt. However much one might wish to
indulge in the delightful sensations that arriving
1n a new country conjure up, it was now only at
odd moments that one could do so, for boatmen,
porters, custom-house ofﬁcers, and hotel touts have
little respect for sentiment, and insist on claiming
most of one's attention. Messrs. Cook and Son
have done much to mitigate this evil, and save the
new—comer a great deal of worry and eXpense, but
until certain formalities have been gone through
one is compelled to drop the Egypt of the Past
and content oneself with the Egypt of the Present.
I was well aware that Port Said was not a place
for a painter to loiter in, so I made up my mind

5

 

