 

 

 

BELOW THE CATA RACTS

time or wilful mischief. They show, however,
the skilled draughtsmanship of the designer more
than where the sculptor has cut away the outline.
These ﬁgures, some ﬁfteen inches high, are drawn
with a very free hand; the contour of a limb is
often done with but two pulls of the brush. The
strings of the harp look simple enough, but my
efforts to pull each one off with one stroke, as in
the original, made me appreciate the dexterity of
Nakht’s artist. Indeed, he may have been his
own artist, for the term “ scribe ” probably included
both painter and sculptor. This idea gained on
me while working in the tomb. The artists who
drew the beautiful eighteenth or nineteenth dynasty
ﬁgures must have disliked substituting a jackal’s
head for that of a man’s, as in Anubis, or sur-
mounting a lovely ﬁgure of Hathor with the face
of a cow. In decorating his own tomb he could
do as he liked; and no monstrous faces disﬁgure
this last resting-place of Nakht. Passages from
The Book of Meet safaris/z is I}: the Underway-Id or from
The Book cgf the Portals are absent here; he had
had to treat of them as! nemeam while serving in
the temples. His soul should wander about his
ﬁelds and vineyards, and be refreshed with the good
things of his table while long-eyed damsels dis—
coursed sweet music.

There are many tombs of greater importance

206

"7

i v 7

’

THE MENTUHOTEP TEMPLE

than this of Nakht; to attempt to describe these
is not within the scope of this book. All should visit
that of Rekhmere, where the pictures speak for
themselves.

The casting of “ Punt ” was drawing to a close,
and a continuance of hot wind decided me to get
out of this burning valley of Der el—Bahri. I had
not seen Abydos when an opportunity of staying
close to Seti’s temple presented itself. Mr. Gar—
stang, who was directing some excavations in the
cemetery close by, kindly invited me to join his
camp. The temple is eight and a half miles from
the river, just beyond the reach of the cultivated
land, and the nearest station is that of Belianeh.
Though the camp is only some eighty miles from
the one at Dér el—Bahri, it entailed a long journey
and a night spent at Luxor to enable me to catch
a stopping train leaving soon after daybreak. The
wind happily had shifted to a cooler quarter or I
should have been half—stifled in the train. We
crawled along the east bank of the Nile for about
half of the way, and crossed over to the west side
at Nag Hamadeh. Long stoppages at stations where
no one got in and no passengers alighted enabled
the company to make this run of eighty miles
Spread over ﬁve or six hours. I secured a couple
of donkeys at Belianeh to take me and my luggage
across the cultivation. The sun was now so high

207

 

