 

 

CHAPTER VII
THE MosoUE or SULTAN Haan

WE next make for the grey—domed mosque which
faces us across the square. Not only is this the
ﬁnest monument in Cairo, but also the most perfect
Specimen extant of Saracenic architecture. It was
originally built by Sultan Hasan in I 356 to serve as
a theological college or “ medréseh,” but has since
been used as a congregational mosque. We have
seen a ﬁne example of the true form of mosque in
that of Ibn Tulﬁn, planned as it is to hold a vast
congregation in its spacious inner court. The
medrésehs being intended for the accommodation
of scholars, space was not needed for so great a
number of worshippers, but more attention had to
be given to the requirements of the lecturers and
to the housing of the pupils. The dome, which is
so important a feature here, as in so many other
mosques in Cairo, has nothing to do with the
mosque proper, but only exists as a covermg toia
tomb. So many of the religious monuments 1n

74-

 

 

THE MOSQUE OF SULTAN HASAN

Cairo serve as the last resting—place of their founders
that these domed mausoleums have erroneously
come to be considered a necessary feature of a
Moslem place of worship.

The cruciform plan of the Sultan Hasan
mosque is not seen from the exterior, as the angles
are ﬁlled in with rooms and oﬂices necessary to a
college. The vast wall~space facing the road is
therefore only broken when windows are required
to light these apartments. The simplicity of this
facade enhances the grandeur of the cornice which
runs around the top of the building. A stalactite
ornamentation breaks the horizontal lines at the
projection of each course of stones, and the plain-
ness of the wall Space below this cornice is enriched
by the beautiful shadow cast by it. At noon this
shadow sweeps far down the face of the building
until we reach the angle where the wall turns more
to the sun; here the shadow shortens as if loath
to break the contour of the magniﬁcent portal
which we are about to enter.

We ascend a ﬂight of stairs, and from the landing
this huge niche rises 66 feet above us. The half—
spherical vaulting of the arch is worked up to by
twelve tiers of pendentives, delicate little columns
round off the angles near the base, and the arched
niches that face each other on either side of the door.
Beautiful arabesque borders, panels and medallions

75

 

