 

 

 

BELOW THE CATARACTS

replaced the scent of the incense soon becomes almost
unbearable. Standing in the darkness of the sanctuary
we can look right through to the entrance of the
temple zoo feet away, and the blaze of light from
the outside world obliges us to grope our way until
our eyes are once more accustomed to the gloom.
A small chamber to our left forms a passage into an
open court, beyond which some steps lead up to a
chapel, the entrance to which is formed by two
Hathor columns. The jambs of the door butt
against the shafts and nearly reach the capitals,
while a balustrade connects these shafts with the
walls. The sky—goddess, “ Newt,” is painted on
the ceiling of the chapel, or kiosque, as it is some-
times called. I decided to return here the next
day and set up my easel beneath this goddess ; the
peep through into the little court would, I felt
sure, be a good subject under a more favourable
lighting, and, as the chapel faces nearly north, it
would be a comparatively cool place to work in.
The staircase to the roof of the temple starts from
just inside the small doorway in the illustration.
A run up there to view the surrounding country
in the setting sun, was well worth the climb,
even though it meant ﬁnding the best part of our
way back to the Matrix in the dark.

244

 

 

THE STORY OF THE FIND AT KARNAK

THE STORY os THE FIND AT KARNAK

The men still loading their donkeys with the
septic dust around the temple recalled the story of
the ﬁnd which a ﬁ/Za/z made some ﬁve years
since while he was similarly occupied. We will
christen him “ Mahmoud ” (if giving a Moslem
a name can be called christening 1). While ﬁlling
his sacks to load his donkey, Mahmoud’s shovel
struck something more solid than ‘ sebagh,’ and he
unearthed a pot. This is not an unusual thing to
do; but an unbroken pot such as this is worth a
piastre or two, so he proceeded carefully to dis-
engage it from the soil. It being closed with a
stopper, and its unusual weight, excited the man’s
curiosity. On opening it Mahmoud found that it
was full of gold pieces, and, while still muttering
a prayer of thanksgiving, he covered it over and
carefully marked the spot, and again thanked
“ Allah ” that he was working by himself, and
would not have to divide the spoil with others.
He returned here after dark to fetch away his
hoard, and feeling about in the loosened earth he
found two more pots, also very heavy for their
respective sizes. He managed to get them
back to his hut, where he feasted his eyes on
the glittering contents. What were the riches
of the Omdeh of the village compared to this heap

245

 

