 

 

BELOW THE CATARACTS

stone, and form a sloping causeway up which the
block would be hauled with the aid of tackle and
rollers, and as this earth was moved from unex—
cavated parts of the temple near at hand, this
labour served a double purpose. As labour is
cheap during certain months of the year, he as—
sured me that it was a less expensive procedure
than the use of cranes and engines would have
been. There is an enormous amount of this work
still to be done. Many of the aisle columns are
still buried nearly up to the spring of their papyrus
bud capitals. Many of the rooﬁng stones were
probably used by the Ptolemies when they added
their quota to the glory of Ammon or of some
other Theban god. All the central columns, and
most of the shorter ones, are inscribed with ﬁgures
or cartouches of Ramses II.’s time. The much
more beautiful work of Seti is seen on the inner
side of the pylons that enclose the hall, east and
west, and on both sides of the north wall. The
few columns that still show the work of this
Pharaoh make one regret that he did not complete
this hall. His handicraft is all in the delicate low
relief that recalls the work we have seen at Abydos,
and which there contrasts so much to its advantage
with the work of his son.

Leaving the hypostyle hall by the door in the

north wall we can study the series of reliefs that

220

 

or.“

 

 

KARNAK

depict the victories of Seti during his campaign in
Syria, and, interesting as these are as an historical
record, they are invaluable as a work of art. They
are the great masterpieces of all the battle scenes,
depicted from the rise of the new Empire till the
conquest of Egypt by Alexander. The innumerable
portrayals of a Ramses slaying a barbarian, repeated
until one is ready to cry, “ Hold ! enough i” were
probably all inspired by this great work of art.
Re-entering the hall, we pass again through this
forest of columns, and quit it at its eastern entrance
through the pylon of Amenophis, or Amen-
hotep III., as we have been calling him. This
older part of the temple of Ammon is in such a
ruinous condition that, without the help of Legrain,
it would have been difficult to know where we
were. The two obelisks of Thothmes I., only one
of which is standing, and a pedestal of a vanished
colossal statue front the early eighteenth dynasty
temple, which at that time had no buildings to
mask it from the river. The pylon of Thothmes
is now no more than a shapeless heap of stones.
The second pylon, of which even less remains
forms the eastern side of a narrow colonnaded
court, nothing of which now stands, save the great
obelisk of Thothmes’ extraordinary daughter, Hat-
shepsu. Her unloving spouse, the third Thothmes,
had encased the lower half with sandstone walls,
221

 

