BELOW THE CATARACTS

nerves. The peculiar upright shaft at the head of
the bier, like a flagstaff at the stern of a ship, bears
some sign of the nationality or status of the
deceased. During the obsequies of the saint I
noticed that this staff carried a green turban.
The number of dervishes was greater, and the
quantity of banners showed that most of the sects
were represented.
i To the left of our illustration rises the minaret
7 of the Mosque of Aksunkur, which is well worth
l a visit. Built by one of the sons of en—Nasir, in
the middle of the fourteenth century, it was
restored by Ibrahim Agha goo years later. It is
I now known by the name of the latter and is often
| called the “ Blue mosque,” from the colour of the
I tiles which Ibrahim used in its internal decoration.
It is this mass of beautiful tiles which, more than
l anything else, draws painters to this shrine. During
1 the hot weather the large surfaces of blue, tending
I towards green in places and violet in others, make
one forget, to a certain extent, the height of the
it thermometer ; and the prevailing colour of the
l heated streets, a warm buff with touches of red,
's makes these cool shades doubly attractive.
| The sanctuary of all mosques is at the south—east,
l or Mekka end, and obtains its light through the
open colonnade in the opposite direction ;the sun’s
rays, therefore, do not enter here till late in the

|_ 82

_-——h--—"'l'l'-

 

 

 

 

THE MOSQUE OF SULTAN HASAN

day, when they have lost their power; save, now
and again, when a little patch of light from a
clerestory window climbs slowly up a column and
imparts to it the hue of the tiny bits of glass
it ﬁlters through. It is therefore very much
cooler than the sun-baked court which we cross
to reach it. One can di5pense with the slippers
that the attendant wishes to ﬁt over one's boots,
for it is gratifying to have so good an excuse
to go barefooted; and, away from the street,
one’s coat and waistcoat can also be dispensed
with.

It is well to work in some other part of the
building during the time of prayer; the palms
casting their shadows over the domed fountain
make a pretty sketch, and the blue-tiled chamber,
where the sarcophagus of Aksunkur lies, is one
of the most pictorial bits in Cairo. During the
winter a sunny corner of the open court is often
selected by a teacher to hold his class in, or more
often it is used by some unemployed for the mid-
day nap. Little children will play about here
while their elders are at their devotions, and doves
circle around and drink from the overﬂow of the
fountain—#when the kestrels are not using the
minaret as a point of vantage. We may learn
patience from the mosque cat, as he sits watching
a crack in the wall on the chance of securing a too

83 G2

 

 

