"1 —'

 

 

 

 

 

O

BELOW THE CATARACTS

that surround the Muristan. The Sebil Abd er
Rahman, on the left where the roads widens, is a
good place from which to enjoy this view ; it is at
the bifurcation of the two streets, thus permitting
you to stand and look down the centre of this
highway, which it is often difﬁcult to do, now that
the trafﬁc is so much congested by the free use
of European cabs.

The various “ Sebils ” are a characteristic feature
of Cairo. Formerly the chief water supply, they
are still used as drinking fountains. They are
maintained out of the religious endowments, and
are nearly always surmounted by a class—room,
from the open windows of which the sing—song
of the children learning their Koran comes wafted
down to you.

The steps of this particular Sebil form a good
vantage ground from which to make a sketch of
this fascinating scene. A dingy old palace is on
your left, and the houses beyond, on each side
of the street, are being left to crumble away in
peace. Where the Meshrebiya of the windows
has gone in places, an old piece of sacking “ stops
a hole to keep the wind away,” and the charming
bit of fret—work that forms the curtain of the bay
hangs here and there by a thread, until it makes up
its mind which turbaned head it will descend upon.
These signs of decay may be seen in many a

16

 

 

MASR EL KAHIRA

Continental town, where the street is grass—grown
and silent, but here the contrast is startling; the
road is crowded, and on the ground ﬂoor of each
house someone is either busy plying his trade or
enttcmg customers to buy his wares. Nothing
seems to be done indoors; food is hawked about
and eaten in the shade in summer, and on any
sunny doorstep in winter; men sit smoking their
narghilehs and sipping their coffee outside the
coffee-house, for the inside is often but a box
with barely room for the host to cater for his
clientele; the barber will shave the head, or
possibly bleed, or draw the tooth of a patient,
either at his doorway or on a bench outside; the
scribe will sit in the open to draw up a deed, to
write a love—letter for some veiled young woman
squatting near him, or to bear witness to a bargain
struck by a fellah and some townsman. Privacy is
only a matter of sex. The donkey—boy will beat his
wife should she cross the road unveiled, but his
father may have haggled for weeks over the sum
to be paid for his daughter-in—law, with an in—
quisitive crowd around listening and commenting
on every detail.

This being a part of the main artery of the city,
running from the north to the south, the traﬂic
1s often considerable, and it is a keen delight to

,_ watch this pass, in all its colour and picturesque—

I7 c

 

