BELOW THE CATARA CTS

not to consider it as a part of Egypt, but merely
as a European excrescence, and decided to clear
out as soon as the ﬁrst Cairo train left.

A good deal of the journey to the capital was
through a hungry-looking country, with the
partially drained lake of Menzaleh to the right
and the Arabian desert to the left, and the Suez
Canal in the immediate foreground. It seemed as
though one was never to lose sight of this canal,
and its important bearings on commerce and
politics failed to compensate me for its ugliness.
But I partially succeeded in blotting it out of sight
by sitting very low down on the seat, bringing the
window-sill just below my horizon.

There was much to enjoy beyond. The long
stretches of desert which connect Egypt with the
Sinai Peninsula have a peculiar charm of their
own ; it was, moreover, my ﬁrst sight of the desert,
and though, since then, I have spent months in
the wilderness, and seen it in all its aspects, that
ﬁrst sight of it still stands out clearly in my
memory. Imagination was ﬁred. This was

probably the ﬁrst sight the child Jesus saw when

PORT SAID

dress she wore had altered little in shape in the
past two thousand years. The shawl that partially
hid her face was also a wrapping for a babe which
she carried in her arms. As they approached,
some chance movement of the child drew the
veil from its mother’s face, and, alas, the illusion
was gone I

Some ten years later I was again going to Cairo
by this route; the steam tramway that formerly
took us as far as Ismailia had given place to a
well laid line, with trains running Pullman cars,
restaurant, &c., &c. Some ugly erection here and
there, and a few advertisements, were the only
other signs I noticed of the increased proSperity of
the country. I could have diSpensed with the
latter, but I was thankful to be able to do the
journey in about half the former time; for the
heat was intense, and, owing to a stoppage in the
Suez Canal, the train was very crowded.

Though the landscape to the right of me was
.ja'pparently unchanged, I was amazed at the altered
appearance of the desert on my left. Where I

-:r-Emembered seeing but an arid waste I now beheld

 

Mary and Joseph made their pilgrimage into
Egypt to seek refuge from the wrath of Herod.
At what point did they cross the track which
I was travelling P Did Mary look like that fellah
woman riding to the station on a donkey.P The

T.‘ .{f-erat stretches of water, with islands and palm
' joves. It certainly was the time of the high
wISgile, but I was sure that its waters could not reach
—E§v_-1g‘reat a distance. I consulted my map, and got

'ﬁlﬁﬁléhelp from that ; but on asking a native who

6 . - 7

 

