 

 

 

 

 

‘B‘Etow THE CATARACTS

ground, gives him a chance of doing the very best
that he is capable of.

A tent, with a trusty servant to fend for one’s
wants, is perhaps the next best thing, and is within
the reach of a larger number, but there is some
difﬁculty in ﬁnding a suitable place to pitch it.
The land round most of the ancient monuments
has been acquired by the Antiquities Department,
which will allow no stranger to camp there. As
the ground is for the most part desert, this may
savour of the dog in the manger, but it is a
necessary restriction. Before this ground was
acquired, people would often camp within easy
reach of the excavations, and the temptations to
acquire portable antiquities, which belong to the
Department, were often too strong to resist. An
Arab offers to sell some scarabs or a blue glazed
‘ushabti’; the question the visitor usually asks
himself is whether they are genuine ; he does not
as a rule concern himself as to whether it is stolen
property or not. If the Arab is sure that the new
comer is in no way connected with the excavations,
he will even admit the theft, as a proof that the
objects are not frauds. It is sufﬁciently difﬁcult
for the Department to check the thieving of the
workmen in its employ, and it is therefore too
much to CXPCCt it to encourage the advent of
neighbours who so readily receive these goods.

I36

 

 

 

 

#—

 

' .- o 3‘ I I — - - - 1*“-

J»

:4;
ALEXANDRIA TO CAIRO

This necessary restriction is hard upon those whose
only object is to camp near the subjects they wish
to paint; but, as Professor Maspero, the distin—
guished head of the Department, explained to me,
it was impossible to avoid making a hard and fast
rule, and that, as guardians for the country of these
treasures, they could not allow anything which
might endanger their safety. Wherever he is able to
assist the student without risk to his trust, he is
always most obliging, and the Inspectors of
Antiquities, who have the guardianship of the four
districts under him, are equally courteous and helpful
to anyone seriously wishing to study or to paint
any of the monuments.

It so happened that a concession was granted to
the Metropolitan Museum of New York to take
impressions of a portion of the has reliefs in
Hatshepsu’s temple at Thebes. The casts from
these, after being coloured as much like the
original wall as possible, are to be set up in this
museum, which will give the New Yorkers.an
opportunity of studying the most delightful bit of
wall decoration of the eighteenth dynasty. Mr.

.L‘aff'an, who is generously defraying the expense,
"disputed Mr. Currelly, who was at the time in-
charge of the excavations, to see the work carried

;ou.t,;---.a.nd to ﬁnd an artist to do the colouring.
This work was offered to me, and, with the proviso

I37

_.___ ‘ o
" 2-H

 

