 

 

 

Q

BELOW THE CATARACTS

would get would allow them to retire, sip coffee:
and play backgammon for the rest of their lives,
was what exercised their minds, and possibly roused
a good deal of secret resentment—that these dogs.
of Christians should be permitted to carry ofF what
Allah had clearly intended should fall to the lot of
the true believer I These sentiments would only
be expressed when I was out of hearing, for I had
had some influence in getting the Mudir to increase
their wages, and had put in a word for them when.-
baksheesh was to be distributed.

One thing, however, was certain, the tomb of
Queen Tyi had been found and opened. The.
massive limestone cliffs that form the barrier
between the two digs might have been but a gauze
curtain, so marvellously we heard of our neighbours’
doings. Mr. Theodore Davis had ridden over
from his dahabiyeh ; the Bash Moufetish, with his
‘ wakeel ’ and extra guards, had arrived ; telegrams.
had been dispatched to M. Maspero ; a Special
artist was on the spot, and a photographer had been
summoned from Cairo. The arrival of our friend
Ayrton, when the day’s work was over, cleared the
air. His face bore the expression of a gentle:
angler who, having landed a big ﬁsh, joins his
companions who have done no more than lose
their tackle. He might well feel pleased, for, when
we learnt the full truth, it was evident that his ﬁnd

186

 

  
  

 

THE TOMB OF QUEEN TYI

was one of the most dramatic for a good many years.
He told us that the tomb had certainly been opened
since ﬁrst Queen Tyi had been laid to rest there;
but there was evidence that this had not been done
for plunder, as no valuables had been abstracted,
but some hieroglyphs referring to the heresy which
she had fostered and her son had tried to establish,
had been efFaced. It seemed evident that this had
been done but a few years after the Queen’s death,
and that after the priests of Ammon had satisﬁed
their religious zeal, and had repaired the breach
they had made in the wall, Tyi had slept undis-
turbed for over three thousand years. A landslip
from the mountain in whose bosom she lay had
protected her from the plunder of the Roman, the
fanaticism of the early Christians, and the greed of
the Arabs, but had now failed to conceal her resting—
place from the Egyptologist.

The talk of Queen Tyi, of her son Akhnaton, and
the religious revolution of their times, was the
absorbing topic of that evening. It was disa —
pointing to hear that we should not be allowed to
see the tomb for some days, as the photographer
was away from Cairo, and nothing could be touched
until careful photographs had been taken of every—
thing in the position in which it had been found.
The fear, also, of what might happen during that
time was considerable; for though objects may

137

 

- [II-d

