 

BELOW THE CATARACTS

the later Ramses) appointed a commission to visit
the tombs of his predecessors and report upon their
condition. In their report they mentioned that the
tomb of Mentuhotep II. was intact, but they did not
say where this tomb was situated, but a drawing of
a pyramid followed the brief allusion to it. This
decided Professor Naville to search for this tomb
under the pyramid. It was not found, but his
labour was rewarded by ﬁnding six diorite statues
of Usertesen 111., three of which are now in the
British Museum, and three at Cairo. As this
monarch belongs to a later dynasty, namely the
XII, it adds one more problem to the many that
this temple leaves unsolved.

A pit tomb that was unearthed a few yards behind
the base of this pyramid proved to be that of a
woman, and some well preserved, though rude,
wall paintings of the XI dynasty, which covered the
exterior of this sepulchre, were also well worth
ﬁnding; but where the remains of Mentuhotep
lay was still a mystery.

The excavations were carried further into the
base of the cliffs that back the temple ; the debris
from the limestone rocks was cleared, the under—
lying strata of shale was reached, and great was the
surprise of Mr. Dalison, who was at the time
directing the workmen, when, without any warning,
a mass of broken stone slid down, exposing a deep

I58

  
   
    
  

. THE; TEMPLE OF AMMON
Warsaw: the rock and the head and shoulders of a

-;~ ggshior'cow. The winter of 1906 was a season of
_ 2.21 g‘u'rPﬁses at Thebes, but the suddenness of this one,
_— :fhe‘beauty of the sculpture, and the perfection of
. r4_;ﬂt.~_sv;}‘Lreservatron marked this as an epoch-making
If-"ﬁﬂd. Currelly, who was on the spot before the dust
fh’ad- subsided, supplied me with the details.
‘ The work had to be carried on with great caution.
The native workmen are keenly interested when
Some valuable object is found, and easily lose their
.. heads when excited. Working into the sides of
“'§wE'sliﬁ might, if not carried on with great care,
' veg-EYE land-slip that might have fatal results -
Wiﬁre some of the rock has to be shorn up before
"eﬁ‘dxafe risk. dislodging the underlying stone. The
-fﬁre of? the hollow from which this startling head
gm;feared'wanted careful study. When the fallen
,globf'ri‘slwas cleared, this hollow proved to be soundly
{zarﬁh‘E'd--; and fairly well preserved wall pain tings that
zftgofvtsr‘fed' the interior, left no doubt as to the period
EfﬁggmmtmaiOH and that of the magniﬁcent cow
. .Dihbf-‘itL-e'nshrined. It is regrettable that the whole .
mgr-rot have remained in .rz'm. The museum
EitIESat Cairo, however, naturally anxious to
Vmﬁgnfe-‘tia-specimen of XVIII dynasty sculpture
Etniﬁ'tisTﬁ-llection, made the most of the danger it
xmmﬂu’l‘ﬁigﬁfi‘being damaged in this out of the way

‘

 

 

   
  
   

    

l-l-

    
 
   
 
 
  
   
  
 
  
  
  
 
   
  
 
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
   
  
   
 
  
  
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
    
   
   

‘Wl‘qg-‘ﬁ {li’ﬁ'Jocal Inspector of Antiquities, Mr.
-
, _ ' I5 9

—

I
l—
-
7r
1...

'C'
‘-

  

