 

CHAPTER XVII
KARNAK.

I HAD the advantage of Howard Carter’s com-
pany on my ﬁrst visit to the Seti temple. His
long eXperience in drawing the temple inscriptions
has given him a better knowledge of Egyptian art
than possibly any of our contemporaries.

Though art had reached its highest point during
the eighteenth dynasty, the reliefs in this temple
show no signs of its decadence, and I am inclined
to place them as the greatest achievements in
pictorial art that Egypt has left us. They are the
work of a great artist who, though still imbued
with the traditions of the previous dynasty,
stamped it with his own personal genius.

Art in general was declining, but not the art
of the man who designed the decoration of these
walls; while the portion of the temple which is
covered with inscriptions of the succeeding
Ramses II. shows the decline in a marked degree.
The reigns of Seti and that of his son were both

210

 

 

 

KARNAK

long ones, so there may have elapsed some forty
or ﬁfty years’ interval ; but it was a sad falling ofF
in so comparatively short a time.

The reliefs of Seti are slightly higher than those
in Hatshepsu's temple at Thebes, but the increased
size of the ﬁgures may partially account for this.
Probably all were intended to be coloured, as a
certain number of them are ; but as time has served
so much of the coloured work badly, perhaps it is
fortunate that the majority still remain as they left
the hands of the sculptor. I have chosen an
illustration from both series. In one, where the hue
has only been acquired through the discoloration
of the limestone, Seti is bringing an offering to
Osiris, a fragment of whose ﬁgure is seen to be
left, and of the coloured series I chose the relief
representing Seti being nursed by Isis. The
modelling appears to greater advantage in the
former, as the broken colour in the latter inter-
feres with the light and shade. I restored the
faces of the goddess and that of the young king, as
the subject would otherwise have hardly been
intelligible, and covered up ugly scratches that
interfered with the design. The blues and greens
are nearly gone and the blacks have quite dis-
appeared, while the reds and yellows are nearly as
strong as when ﬁrst put on; we cannot therefore
judge fairly of the decoration as a scheme of

211 P 2

 

