 

 

BELOW THE CATARACTS

valley was in complete darkness, with not a light
to be seen but that of the candles on our improvised
tea table.

The camel at last turned up, and I began to
consider arrangements for the night. There were
two empty rooms leading out of a general sitting—
room in the hut, and a large store—room for the
“ﬁnds,” from which a faint smell of mouse and
mummy proceeded. The two former chambers,
were, however, to be occupied by two lady visitors
who were expected from Cairo the next day, and
I was still in doubt as to what were to be my
quarters for the next few months. Where was I
to sleep; and upon what? I was beginning to
think that even the much—deSpised luxurious hotel
in Cairo; “ replete with every modern comfort,”
was not such a bad thing after all. However,
Bulbul produced a native bedstead, which he
placed in an open space between heaps of broken
stones that had been brought down from the exca—
tions, Achmet followed with a mattress, and my
bedroom was complete. It was spacious, for it
embraced the whole valley with the star—spangled
ﬁrmament for the ceiling. It took a good deal of
lighting, for the wind, which generally rises an
hour after sunset, had not forgotten us that night,
and made short work of the candles. My friend
seemed surprised that I could not see to pick my

14.3

  
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
     
   
   
  
 

TH EBES

way in the dark through the broken bits of
temple that lay everywhere. I assured him that
_ many of my countrymen suffered from the same
5 ' complaint, and he humanely led me back to
i" the hut. A tent near our two beds (I had not
noticed the second couch till I stumbled over it in
the dark) served as a dressing-room for both of
us. My friend is a Canadian, and has had much
experience in camping out, both in his own country
and in Egypt ; he must have smiled as he heard the
“ tenderfoot ” trip up‘over the tent ropes. Dark—
— ness hid the smile, though I fancied I heard it ; a
_ novel situation is liable to make one fanciful! A
igggiaining quarter of the moon was to appear later
{(23,301 postponed further bedroom arrangements
sans: my baggage lie where the camel had left it.

- .i L

i; get sitting—room of the but seemed a blaze of
ﬁgme'when we reached it ; the table was set, and I
mfgfaf‘ﬁfaiting an enormous dish of sardines; as I
h-gimagined that this with pickles was an excava—
ttu'TgosQle- diet, and was what I had been prepared-
ﬁs) from the load of the camel. Bulbul
é‘di {1.3er soon with a steaming bowl of soup,
[to line :JlISEd by Achmet, who, with the help of
lﬂbmtléijgaas preparing a ﬁan-d’wwre. Sardines,
ll {Shaun but no, a dish of delicious little
WEE from a swim in their native oil
shrill Tits-3'1Igizgaimongst some stoned olives, were
I ' I49

 

 

 

A

