 

 

CHAPTER XII
THEBES

I ARRIVED at Luxor on the ﬁrst of December; and
the train being only a matter of four hours late did
not seem to surprise those who had come to meet
me, any more than it surprised the camel which had
also been waiting that time, on the Thebes side of
the Nile, to take my luggage to the camp. A
queer load did the beast carry that afternoon!
Paints in one pannier would be counterbalanced by
pickles and tins in the other, a sack of plaster
of Paris weighing more than a portmanteau,
with sardines and candles stuffed round it to
equalise matters. And, ye gods! what a lot of
sardines! The delicious savoury that looks so
well on a background of toast; would it look
equally well served up in platefuls as a piece (it!
rérirranre? Were those other tins also ﬁlled
with the delectable little ﬁsh? No, their place
of origin, the revelations concerning which have
lately made many a check turn pale, at least

14.0

 

_ ’b’.

Q’

AB“

TH EBES

reassured me that I was not to undergo a strict
sardine cure. Some bags of ﬂour that were
being balanced against my sketching apparatus re—
assured me yet more. When the easel had been well
wedged in one pannier and the sketching umbrella
in the other, Mohammed Effendi, who represented
the Egyptian Exploration Fund, gave the orders to
march. He and I mounted our donkeys and the
“ commissaree camuel ” followed in our rear.

The donkey as we know it in England is a
sorry kind of mount, and no one but a circus
clown would dare turn up at a meet upon such a
steed ; but when British sporting enterprise has
introduced packs of hounds into the country, the
Egyptian donkey will ﬁgure largely in the ﬁeld.

A half mile of sand and dried mud separated the
river from the cultivated land, and a brisk canter
across this left the camel and its driver well behind.
After passing some enclosed gardens, and crossing
the canal bridge, we descended into the wide green
plain separating the necropolis of Thebes from the
river. The colossi of Amenhotep III. stand on the
further end of the cultivation, and upon the left of

them, on the edge of the desert, we can just discern

the pylons of the great temple of Medinet Habu.

The ruins of the Ramesseum are partly hidden by

trees, and the amphitheatre formed by the cliffs

that back the temple of Dér el-Bahri is just visible
14.1

 

