 

 

BELOQ THE CATARACTS

'able to heat the top of the table sufficiently to melt
the wax to the required consistency. Longer time
was given to preparing the tin foil, while with
wedge-shaped slips of wood we drove the tin foil
well home where the cuttings were deepest, and
the wax now being softer, it could more easily be
pushed well into the crevices. A plaster of Paris
backing would have effectually prevented any
sagging, but we had promised Professor Maspero
not to allow any gypsum to be taken into the
temple, lest a careless workman might Spill some
upon the wall itself. A second and thicker layer
of wax over the ﬁrst did some good; but, as the
stones on the wall are not perfectly level, there
were bound to be hollows between the impression
and the flat board upon which we laid it, and a
sagging down to the level of the board was bound
to take place as soon as the warmth of the atmos—
phere had again softened the beeswax. This
would not have been of much consequence had we
only wanted an individual stone, as there is no
great gain to the appearance of the relief from its
not being cut on a quite level surface, but where
some two hundred stones forming this bit of wall
required casting, it was of the greatest importance
that the joints should be flush. A limb of a god,
for instance, would look singularly out, if a half—
inch projection where the stones met broke the

162

  
 
  
 
  
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
 
  
 
   

'-_ fTHE TEMPLE 0F AMMON

Grit? of its outline. The hollows also would
”ml-flit equally down to the level of the backing
@55er one cannot ensure an even temperature
Li‘sli'geair. The cast from the second impression
vvaqgmueh sharper and better than the ﬁrst attempt
gpggﬁamovement in the wax matrix had certainly
I Elﬁn place, for a straight edge applied to the cast
, (did: not tally with one applied to the original stone
I :anﬂsit would entail some paring away of the surfacd
"gg‘t'make its edges everywhere ﬂush with those of
yﬁgighbours when they came to be embedded in
W11; of the New York Museum. To amend
W,.f§$iﬁafted to the following plan :——I had my
firmiraffs joint to the size of the different stones
Wattle tinfoil sheet to slightly overlap theI
mmatﬁlfﬁeiimpressed, and before the layers of wax
ffxrstclf t-‘gmqgto harden, from the colder surface of the
@15th the board pressed ﬁrmly on to the back
Mrjpression, and bent the overlapping wax
m1" e:e__'ed'ges of the board. When sufﬁciently
fila' _d-d,-’7i :I took the mould from the wall, and
ﬁi‘ﬁpside down, I ran melted wax into any:
fssfﬂltzmm might be between the back of the
{Warmth and the surface of the board. This
(3&1qu provented the sagging, and did away
aﬂ‘rfh [ifnrjféc-‘ESsity of tooling the surface of the
gone 3 ﬁnglwever well the latter might be done
sit swag mﬁf'fth-markings of my chisel, but those of
. 163 M 2

