 

BELOW THE CATARACTS

imagination, and to make one long to set up one’s
easel, that it is better not to indulge in vain
regrets.

Starting from the Ezbekiyeh, which is the centre
of the European quarter, an uninteresting little
street behind the Bristol Hotel will lead you
through a labyrinth of lanes and alleys into the
Suk ez Zalat. You will do well to have a guide,
for already the rectangular plan of the modern
town has ceased, and the streets turn and twist
about, with a knack of ending nowhere, in the
characteristic way of an oriental city. This ﬁrst
part of your exploration is through a disreputable
quarter indeed; for here all that is squalidly
vicious in Europe and the near East ﬂourishes ; but
it is quiet enough in the morning, when the least
desirable inhabitants are still sleeping off the orgies
of the previous night.

Once safely landed in the Fouyatieh and you
will have left Cairo improper behind. you and will
really be getting into Cairo proper. A mosque
and a row of lattice—windowed houses to the
right might serve as a setting to some Arabian
N ight’s story. An unpretentious—looking doorway,
shadowed by the projecting upper floor and
ponderous bay windows, leads into the courtyard of
a typical Cairene house, once inhabited by some

12

 

  
  

 
  
   
  
  
 
  
  
   
   
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
   
   

wealthy merchant, but now let out in tenements.

 

 

MASR EL KAHIRA

Should you be fortunate enough to hap upon a
guide who has been used to conducting artists, he
will be able to show you many such houses ; and
I may here mention the name of one who has
followed the writer, in his search for the pictur-
esque, into every hole and corner of Cairo. His
name is “ Mohammed el Asmar,” but he elects to
call himself “Mohammed Brown,” the latter name
being a literal translation of “ Asmar ” ; “ besides, am
I not brown?” he argued, in justiﬁcation of his
change of surname. With the aid of Mohammed
I used this court—yard as an outdoor studio for some

"time, he being able to procure me water—carriers,
sellers of sherbet and other drinks, donkeys,
jeamels, and all the other living objects of interest
zof a Cairo street. While he haggled and
bargained with my models, I was able to make
studies of the arabesque door and the pretty bits of
;Meshrebiya seats which I hope have not now
gone the way‘ of so much that 15 picturesque.

'Meshrebiya is the Arabic name for the turned

- .3}. - .._ o
Woodwork that was so much used for screens,

l “nice windows, and furniture generally , it admits
I; e air, subdues the light, and also allows the
men-folk to get a peep into the outside world
if i’" 5.111: their being seen. This 15 well 1n keeping,
fits 9.1 u ohammedan town, where shade and privacy
Em e entials, but taken away from its surroundings,

_ I3

. J

 

 

