 

  

 

  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
   
 

 

G

BELOW THE CATARACTS

ment, and that possibly dear Achmet was not a
thief in spite of his honest face.

There is something about ‘antika' collecting
that distorts the moral vision. A man will sip
coffee with an ‘ antika ’ dealer while he is buying
goods that he knows have been stolen from him,
whereas he would have the man locked up were
he a receiver of a stolen pair of boots. When
Currelly ﬁrst joined the excavations at Thebes and
was less able than now to detect a “ Kurnah—made ”
scarab, he wished to have his own judgment corrob—
orated while making some purchases at adealer’s in
Luxor. The foreman, or ‘ reis,’ as they are called,
of the excavations was a Kurnah man, and doubt-
lessly a deft hand at forging ‘ antikas ’ himself, so
it struck Currelly that it might be advisable to take
this man with him to the shop and get him to
drop a hint should he detect any “ Kurnah-made ”
fakes. The foreman fell in with this, and as
Currelly treated his men kindly, and had had some
experience in handling natives, he felt that he could
depend on his ally. A tempting lot of ‘antikas’
were spread out on the counter, and our friend
began making his selection. “ Now, how about
this P ” he would ask, picking up a blue-glazed
‘ ushabti,’ “ Can you guarantee its genuineness ? ”
The salesman assured him, by the beard of the
Prophet, that he knew the very tomb where it had
zoo

 
 
    

  
      
       

a "

 

THE MENTUHOTEP TEMPLE

been found, and appealed to his co—religionist, the
foreman, for corroboration. The latter, wishing to
serve his master, and yet not to make an enemy of
the shopman, would also swear by all he held holy
that such a bit of blue glaze was beyond the skill
of the forger, and that he could vouch for the tomb
where it had been found; but a gentle stamp on
Currelly’s foot under the counter was a sufﬁcient
reminder that the foreman was only lying par ram-
pfnz'mnrr, and the purchase of the ‘ ushabti’ was
not made.

Should the next article be a genuine one, the
protestations of the dealer would again be corro-
borated by the ‘ reis,’ and an accompanying elbow
movement of the latter was a hint to Currelly that
he might safely buy. This would then be set
aside as worth bargaining for. So it went on,
until every ‘ antika ’ that was worth a place in the
museum in which Currelly was interested had been
sifted out. As the protestations of the ‘ reis’ and
the dealer grew more eloquent over a sham that
was offered for sale, so the foot-stamping increased
in vigour, and Currelly was thankful that his foot
was protected by a substantial boot. The long
process of bargaining would then begin for each
individual object ; then an offer for the lot if
taken an Mac. “ Can you expect me to sell for so
much less than I gave ? ” would say the dealer as

201

 

