’

BELOW THE CATARACTS

what one has come to see. They seem not to
resent being told to go away, long usage has
accustomed them to that ; but, go where you will,
they will follow you about until every sense but
one of irritation has left one. Some attempt has
recently been made to lessen this nuisance, but it
has been a great failure, as far as my own personal
experience has gone. Possibly in the full season they
may be kept more in check now than formerly.
To enjoy the pyramids the full season is the
time of the year to avoid, if it is possible. Tourists
disputing with extortionate camel drivers or
donkey boys, bargaining for sham scarabs, standing
in parties to be photographed, or preparing their
lunch, might all be very entertaining if watched
from a hotel terrace in Cairo, but this is not
what one has come here to see. Before or after
the season one is spared these irrelevancies, but the
control of the Bedouin is at all times very much
relaxed. I have been informed of the share which
the police, who are stationed there to keep order, get
in order that they should not interfere with these
pests when on their hunt for baksheesh. I have
often heard these creatures defended, as not being
so bad as they are made out to be, but this
advocacy is generally from the fair sex ; and it is
possible that were these ﬁne—looking fellows
replaced by equally good-looking women, the men

114.

 

 

0 W V
i
.‘5
THE. PYRAMIDS

might not condemn them so sweepingly. To buy
up the village where these people live, and to
transplant the population elsewhere has been
suggested as the only efﬁcacious remedy. How-
ever, the Antiquities Department, which. would be
expected to do this, has not enough income to
carry out its present work, and it certainly could
not spare the money to execute this reform.
Egypt is well policed, and it should be the duty of
the police to stop this nuisance. The visifors,
who are the ones to suffer, stay too short a while
in the country to agitate in the matter, but the
foreign residents in Cairo could do so; unfortunately
they suffer less persecution, as their knowledge of
Arabic distinguishes them from the “ Sawarhine”:
they therefore do not trouble about the matter.
This is a long digression, but this nuisance is

' now so much a part of a visit to the pyramids that

it is difﬁcult not to allude to it. By simulating
deafness you may succeed in stopping the chatter of
your followers, but to shake them off is not
possible.

A stroll along the base of Cheop’s great tomb
helps one to realise its size. You walk a distance
of 26o yards before reaching the angle, then look
along the next face, and the same length is before
you ; and, should you feel inclined to walk round
the four sides, you will have covered a distance

115 12

 

