BELOW THE CATARACTS

collecting a certain number of pots of the period,
but was not able to get enough to satisfy his
client, and there was yet the most important con—
tent of the tomb, namely, the body, to be found.
He heard that a Copt, who lived in the remote
neighbourhood where he was proSpecting, had
discovered some tombs and might be able to supply
him with what he wanted. “ Here’s my chance,”
be reﬂected, “ between the two of us we may be able
to furnish a complete set of tomb furniture, and
should he not have a perfect body, we must see
if we can’t fake one up.” The Arab hurried
off to the Copt‘s dwelling while these pleasant.
thoughts were occupying his mind. The farm
lived in a lonely district at some distance from
the cultivated land. Much might be done here
without anyone being the wiser. The man was
fortunately at home and ready to do a deal with
his visitor. He had pots in plenty, but not a body
worthy of the British Museum. Sinister thoughts
laid hold of the Arab as he contemplated the spare
ﬁgure of his host. To slay a Christian is a
dangerous thing to do; but need he, as one of
the faithful, let that prey on his mind, should
there be little chance of his being found out?
Evil thoughts soon lead to evil deeds. The Copt
stooped down to examine his pots once more, and
the Arab dealt him a blow on the back of his
2 50

 

 

THE STORY OF THE PREDYNAST

head. Seeing that his victim did not need a
second, the Moslem stripped the body of its clothes
and dragged it to a hollow in the desert. Here he
trussed the poor Copt up in the position in which
the predynastic folk were wont to lay out their
dead, and trusted to the drying winds and the
summer sun to dry the body up sufﬁciently to pass
muster as a predynast. The next move was to
collect the rest of the tomb furniture in the hut,
load his donkey and get back to his home as
quickly as he could.

Returning to the spot six months later, the Arab
dealer found the defunct Copt done to a turn, got
the body back to his shop, and sold it, with the
pots, to the British Museum, where the reader can
now inspect him whenever he likes.

That such lies as this one should gain credence
among a people who are past—masters in the art of
lying seems extraordinary. Where and how the
contents of this predynastic tomb were found I
could not ascertain, but as the truth would possibly
be less entertaining than the ﬁction,I let the matter
pass.

Nicol and I having both completed our work at
Dendera, we made the most of an east wind to
help us down the river. We reached Nag Hamadeh
before the wind shifted to the north. The Nile

251

 

