BELOW THE CATARACTS

the Kings at Thebes is hard to reconcile with his
being drowned with his hosts in the Red sea.
Ramses may yet be the Pharaoh who “ hardened
his heart” and it is something to his credit that he
had one to harden !

Beyond this ruined pylon of Thothmes III. we
see some ﬁne statues of that Pharaoh standing at
the gateway of the pylon beyond. The pond
below, which is once more being drained, served as
a rec/23 for a valuable ﬁnd Legrain made here a
short time ago. We must go to the Cairo museum
to appreciate the value of his discovery. The
ﬁgures standing here, ﬁne as they are, are but
those not considered worthy of being sent with the
others to the famous museum. How this vast
number of statues got to the bottom of this pond
adds one to the many unanswered questions that
are continually arising in this wonderful land.

This south part of Karnak is the most sketch—
able. The Sacred Lake, in the angle formed by
these southern extensions, and the earlier part of
the great temple, suggests many a picture. The
view across the lake with the distant pylon of
Nectanebo lighted with the afterglow, inspired
Erskine Nicol to paint one of the best pictures
that has yet left his easel.

Passing through the gateway of Hatshepsu’s
pylon, the battered statues of the Pharaohs which

232

 

 

MORE ABOUT KARNAK

are relieved against it form a subject that time
would not allow of my painting, but I live in
hopes of still doing so. The lay of the land, with
some pictorial trees, and the modest temple of
Amenhotep II. in the space between Haremheb’s
two pylons, suggest many things to paint. We
had many a stroll, between the lights, through
the southern precincts of Karnak, which cover
nearly as great an area as the temple enclosure
itself. The scenes here lend themselves more to
the landscape painter than to the architectural
draughtsman, the relics of ancient monuments
forming interesting incidents rather than the sub-
ject of the picture. Groups of palm trees, scrub,
and coarse grass, break the oft—times dreary mono-
tony of the grey stone.

An avenue of sphinxes of nearly a quarter of a
mile connected the enclosure of Amenhotep III.’s
temple of Mut with that of the great temple of
Ammon. A lake shaped like a horseshoe encloses
the south end of what remains of the shrine which
that magniﬁcent Pharaoh erected. These precincts
are outside the area that is guarded by the antiqui—.
ties department, and the ﬁﬂeﬁfn are free to let
their sheep and goats ﬁnd what pasturage they can
here. The children bathe in this sacred lake and
the ﬂocks are driven here to water. Ram—headed
sphinxes emerge here and there out of the soil, and

233

 

 

