 
 

 
  

 

  

 

  
   
  
    
 
  
     
  
     
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
   

  

   

 

BELOW THE CATARACTS

back to her efﬁgy on the mummy-case with a
mental apology that I regretted having taken her
unawares, and would in future only think of her
as she appeared in all her glory.

Now, the reason why the body lay outside the
coﬂin requires a word of explanation. This heavy
case had rested on a beautiful trestle, surmounted
by a gilded canopy, but, at some unknown period,
one of the carved legs of this trestle had given
way, the cofﬁn had fallen on the floor with
sufficient force to burst the side of it, and the
mummy had rolled out. Sir transit 31’0”}: mundr' 3'

Before this book is in print nearly all the
contents of Tyi’s tomb will have been ticketed
and catalogued for the inSpection of the next
season's crop of tourists when their dragoman
shows them round the Cairo Museum. The
queen herself will, I am glad to say, not be there.
While everything that had any archaeological or
artistic value was being carried down to Mr. Davis’
dahabiyeh, I learnt that the body itself was not to
be removed, and that the tomb would be again
walled up. Though shorn of every emblem of
royalty, may she sleep as peacefully for the next
three thousand years as she has slept since the
priests of Ammon disturbed her sacred rest I

I wrote the above account while the excitement
I94-

 

v

THE TOMB OF QUEEN TYI

of this dramatic ﬁnd was ﬁlling our minds, and
while our enthusiasm was untroubled by any doubts
as to its authenticity. I will let it stand ; for ﬁrst
impressions have a freshness which no subsequent
remembered sensations can hope to possess.

But a sad disillusionment was in store. Since
I left Egypt this interesting mummy has been
examined by expert surgeons in addition to the
Egyptologists, and the skeleton has proved to be
that of a young man of from twenty-ﬁve to twenty—
six years of age.

There can be no doubt that the furniture of the
sepulchre is that of the tomb of Queen Tyi, but
where her bones now rest and who this young man
is who has usurped her place are problems which
remain unsolved. It seems scarcely possible that
these are the mortal remains of Ikhnaton brought
here from Tel—el-Amarna to lie near his forefathers.
His eventful reign could hardly have ended when
he was but twenty—ﬁve years old. Will further
evidence come to light of the doings of the priests
of Ammon when they opened the sepulchre and
erased the hated name of Aton? Or was this a
mock burial of the queen whose body may have
been taken to her son’s city of Akhetaton to be
safe from the desecrating hands of the priests F

We must leave these questions unanswered and
return to the dig at the Mentuhotep temple.

I95 0 2

 

 

 

