BELOW THE CATA RACTS

painting in this picturesque town again, either
while camping out or living on a dahabiyeh ; for I
am ten years older now, and less inclined to face
the discomforts of living in a Greek “ bakkal.”

Some years after my stay in Rosetta a series of
happy coincidences brought me back to within easy
reach of it. My friend Simpson was Spending the
latter part of the summer on the houseboat of
Mr. G. B. Alderson, a leading member of the
English colony at Alexandria. “ Noah,” as he is
called by his familiars, invited me to spend some
time on his ark before starting for Upper Egypt.
This “ ark ” was originally a gunboat but has been
fashioned by its owner into a commodious and very
comfortable floating habitation. It is moored in
the bay of Aboukir opposite a villa which Mr.
Alderson has built among the palms close to the
sea front. Mrs. Richmond, a daughter of our host,
occupied the house on the shore, where we repaired
for our meals ; but our quarters for the night were
always on the ark. I spent a delightful week in
this earthly paradise. The weather was perfect,
just hot enough to make us enjoy the sea breezes
and the shade of the palm groves. Great clusters
of dates hung from the trees, varying in colour from
the palest gold to a rich brown and purple according
to their exposure to the sun, and I was glad to have

262

 

ROSETTA

this opportunity of making some studies of these,
for the date palm is never seen to perfection, except
when this ﬁne patch of colour appears beneath its
fronds. Our genial host assured me that I had
come a week too late to see them in their full
splendour, as a good deal of the fruit had been
gathered ; but enough yet remained for my purpose.
Has one ever been shown over a ﬂower garden when
the proud owner has not regretted that one is a
few days too late to see the roses at their best, or a
few days too early to appreciate his lilies .P

The minaret that rises between the palms in the
illustration is amodern erection and therefore has not
been a silent witness of the historical events which
took place round and about Aboukir. It has an
interest of its own, however, as it is probably the only
standing minaret ever built by a Christian as a gift
to the people of another faith; but I mildly sug—
gested to my host that, as he was a member of the
Church of England, ﬂm‘ church might have been his
ﬁrst consideration ; however, on being told that he
had built the church for the English at Ramleh,
where there were plenty of rich members able and
willing to support it, it was evident that a neigh-
bouring Peter had not beenZ-robbed to pay an alien
Paul.

Apart from these ethical considerations, this
mosque is a great improvement to the appearance

263

 

