 

 

 

BELOW THE CATARACTS

idea ,of how we appear in their eyes. Rumours
at or had reached us that to country was in
an unsettled state; the Denshaur incident had
created some excitement in Cairo and the towns of
the Delta, but the boatmen on the Nile and the
up—river country folk seemed to know nothing
about it. As long as the latter are left in safe pos—
session of their plots of land, and are able to ﬁnd a
market for their produce, I do not think they
trouble themselves much as to what nation has the
most to say in the government of their country.
The boatmen do not seem to have shared in the
increased prosperity which has resulted from the
British occupation, but they are naturally a peace-
ful lot of men, and they hardly realise what our
position in their country is. The price of living
has increased as a better market for the crops has
been found, but owing to the competition of the
railway, and other causes, the wages of the Nile
sailors have remained stationary; therefore, they
are really worse off than ten or ﬁfteen years ago.
Their mania to be on the move seems unaccount-
able, for, as long as they could bask in the sun or
sleep in the shade and get their wages, you would
imagine that the longer the journey lasted the
better it would suit them; instead of which,
should the wind not be dead against us, their
faces would fall if we proposed to tie up a bit

238

 

 

THE TEMPLE 0F DENDERA

longer, even though moving might entail a‘i'long
day at the oars. 'They were, of course, glad to
stay when we got to some town to which any of
them belonged; but apart from that they always
seemed anxious to be on the move. Fortunately
for some of the crew, we tied up for a while at
Tﬁkh, and one of the sailors who lived here
brought us a savoury dish that this part of the
river is noted for. It was very good, but too rich
to partake of freely.

Kﬁs lies on the opposite side of the river, an
important city in mediaval times, but now
dwindled down to not much more than a country
village. There is some charming landscape further
down near Kuft, the ancient Koptos, and to wander
about here, picking up a few birds to replenish our
larder, fell in with our inclinations more than a
tramp over to the ruins of a temple of Min. On
the east bank of the river some geyerse laden
with pitchers were awaiting a favourable wind to
carry the Ballas pottery down the river. The clay-
deposits are a little inland, but stacks of Ballassa
were piled up on the bank near the village that
gives them their name. Our next stopping place
was at a modest little village on the west bank
opposite Keneh, our objective being the temple of
Dendera. Nicol was searching for a good bit of
Nile bank as a setting for a picture of “ Watering

239

 

