 

CHAPTER XIII
THE TEMPLE oF Ammon

AFTER breakfast I took a stroll up to the
Hatshepsu temple with Currelly, to study-the best
means to adopt in order to make the castmg w1th
the least risk to the wall painting. We took from
the works a couple of men who my friend knew to be
adepts at making sham ‘ antikas,’ with some sheets
of tin—foil and a lump of wax. Choosing a simple
bas—relief to experiment upon, we held the tinfoil
against the stone and rubbed it into the cutting w1th
a rag until the impression of the relief began-to show
clearly upon the surface. The deeper cuttlngs had
then to be pressed in with a stiff hogshalr brush.
The beeswax, which we placed in the sun to soften,
was then pressed upon the tin-foil, and when that
was completely covered, care being taken not to
let the wax touch any of the wall itself,——we had
to wait until the cold surface of the stone had
hardened the wax. .
The next thing was to take the £011 and wax
I 56

 

 

 

 

THE TEMPLE OF AMMON

backing oﬂ" the stone and lay it face upwards on a
flat board. This silvery mould of the has—relief
looked all right to our inexperienced eyes, and
the “Quies keteer” of the ‘antika’ forgers was
encouraging. The mould was taken down to the
hut, and after giving it a wipe over with grease we
took a plaster east from it.

We then left the plaster to harden, and went to
see what was doing in the cloud of dust that was
arising from the excavations to the left of the
Hatshepsu temple.

The Egyptian Exploration Fund obtained the
concession to excavate this early temple in 1903,
after the work on its later neighbour had been
handed over to the Antiquities Department. Pro—
fessor Naville gave his services, and, assisted by
Henry Hall of the British Museum and latterly by
C. T. Currelly, he completed the work in three years.
As we ascend the three terraces we notice the
similarity of plan to the sanctuary Hatshepsu
erected some seven centuries later. There is, how-
ever, one feature which distinguishes the temple
of Mentuhotep II. from any other, and that is the
ruin of a pyramid on the third terrace. It is the
only known instance of a pyramid forming an
actual part of a temple, and the singularity of this
has led to some interesting results. A papyrus in
the Turin Museum states that the Pharaoh (one of

I57

 

 

