 

 

 

 

___.—-_. .-

  

 

 

_.I___

BELOW THE CATARACTS

a rank as Ahmes; while Thothmes III. was the
son of an obscure concubine. The latter circum-
stance would have put the third claimant com—
pletely out of court but for his marriage with his
half-sister. For a short while these two ruled con-
jointly, and while Thothmes was enlarging the
temple at Karnak, Hatshepsu began the building of
this sanctuary, which she dedicated to Ammon.
The country suffered from the divided councils of
the co—regents, an opportunity by which Thoth—
mes II. did not fail to proﬁt. The Queen was
for a time deposed by her husband, and by his
orders her image was erased from the walls of her
yet unﬁnished temple. The party attached to the
second Thothmes placed this poor creature on the
throne, whereupon he further obliterated the inscrip—
tions that referred to his half-sister. His reign was
a short one, and at his death the party attached to
Hatshepsu were strong enough to place her on the
throne and to keep her husband in check. She
ruled supreme during the rest of her life, and the
beautifying of her temple was her chief concern.
The priests of Ammon, who strongly upheld
her claims, now sought to strengthen her prestige
in the eyes of the people. In the north colonnade
the story of her divine birth is depicted: her
earthly father, Thothmes I., is entirely set aside, and
this beautiful series of bas—reliefs represents Ahmes

166

 
     

      

       
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
   
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 

"I‘

THE TEMPLE 0F AMMON

l- -v-

|----
it!) eéiJPEEsence of Ammon Ra, and the hiero—
gﬁﬂnc record the words of the god, who tells her,
“I? ”he-13st: shall be the name of this my daughter
(($19) born). . . . She shall exercise the kingship
mthﬁsmhole land.” The ram-headed Khnum leads
‘ Vii-away from the divine presence. The babe is
as aresented further on, and the divine potter
ﬁéliiﬂns its double. To lessen the prejudices
f"...;a}in:St a woman sitting on the throne which had
5,3. :55: before been occupied but by a man, the
wab‘ol‘n child was depicted as a boy, and when,
_~W“.‘i£§ﬂ, the queen is crowned by the gods, she
Eta W’ted with a beard and the short skirt of a
Hﬂqjs'jfihothmes only appears in the ﬁnal scene
WWW-g:- before the assembled court, acknow—
Wz‘g‘as the ruler of the land. The inscrip-
m- agi‘dlcre framed by the queen’s party for the
u M aféof-‘making her position doubly sure. They

......

{@Jnjggfgher predecessor, whom it would now be
lgl. rsyto call her father, as saying, “ Ye shall
jmihlmjihcr word ; ye shall be united at her com-
mil. Hle‘who shall do her homage shall live ;,
Ills ; all speak evil in blasphemy of her
algae/3' die.”

'lﬂhmg laced here so late in the day, this story
Maﬁlwggmed credence with the people, who for
ages Wayne Pharaohs to be bodily descendants
(iii ed . Anyhow, Hatshepsu continued
167

 
 
 

 
 

 
   
 

 

 

