 

 

in for so long that all live-stock had departed
from it.

Rosetta came up to my expectations as a
sketching ground, and Simpson was soon able
to show me all the choicest bits. The bazaars were
at their best; some of the stalls were laden with
fruit both from Syria and the surrounding country.
Little savouring of Europe was seen here, and but
few of the people had abandoned the native dress.
Columns of old temples, or of early Christian
churches, have been used to support a projecting
story or to round off the corner of a building.
The houses are built of long narrow bricks with
wide joints between them; they are of a rich
brownish-red colour, a good deal of woodwork
is seen, but the meshrebiya is ruder than in
Cairo. The mosque of Sidi Sakhlﬁn is very ex-
tensive, and the vaulting is all carried by antique
marble columns. Some of the smaller mosques,
though very much out of repair, were none the
less paintable. The fountains, schools, and baths,
are all on a more modest scale than at Cairo, but
there is nothing here to jar with their oriental
character, as is so often the case in the larger city.

Simpson had done some admirable work in some
of the little cafés, and I hope that before long
Londoners may have an opportunity of seeing
some of his water-colour drawings. The Rosetta

253

 

a‘\lvul I 1‘

period is, as far as I have seen, the best period
of his art.

In spite of rough quarters, I made up my mind
to stay on here as long as I could, for it was a gem
of a place to paint in. I was able to hire a night-
watchman to keep back the crowd while I was
sketching in the bazaars, and to ward off the dogs
that are a nuisance here. The fruit stalls ﬁrst
attracted my brush. Oranges and lemons were
in places heaped up in great piles to be sold by
auction to the retailers; huge clusters of dates,
baskets ﬁlled to overﬂowing with pomegranates,
stacks of sugar-cane, and bundles of artichokes,
gave one the whole range of the palette to play
with. The lighting of these bazaars is very ﬁne.
The sun’s rays are cut ofF by the matting and
sacking which is spread over a rough kind of
trellis, and the subdued light thus obtained is a
rich golden brown. These subiects have to be
painted very rapidly, and completed piecemeal
after the effect is got ; for the heap of lemons of
to—day may give place to a pile of pomegranates
to-morrow; and the view is also continually in—
terrupted by the salesman and his customers. It
is very exhausting work, and being at the time
of the high Nile, the damp heat was very
trying.

After a couple of days in the fruit bazaar, to start

259 S 2

 

