 

BELOW THE CATARACTS

The coast lengthened visibly, for what at 'ﬁrst
looked like two islands proved to be one piece,
as a yet more distant bit of land gradually
came into sight. This long line of. coast then
seemed to disintegrate, form itself 1nto lslands,
disappear, and be picked up again far to the west.
By referring to the map these changes were ex-
plained, for the whole coast of the Delta, except
in one or two places, is but a narrow strip of
land separating the great salt lakes from the

diterranean.

MfI‘he aimless pacing up and down the deck, and
the various attempts one makes to k1llt1me, had
now come to an end. Grey wintry skies and
troubled waters were left far behind us; the
sun shone benignly down from a soft blue .6]:—
panse, and the gentlest of summer breezes 1m—
parted an inSpiriting freshness to the dry, warm
air. . .

The great steamer ploughed ltS rapid way
through the yellowish-green water opposite the
mouth of the Nile; then, away to our right, a
low—lying, golden sand—marsh outstretched itself,
and now, far ahead, the outline of a l1ghthouse and
the masts of many ships came into view.

Presently, extending itself towards us through
the water, a long, grey line appeared, which, as
we approached, resolved itself 1nto a huge length

2

PORT SAID

of breakwater; and, beyond it, upon our right
hand, the confused outline of houses, of a town,
grew gradually clear.

Slowly, and yet slower, the steamer glided along,
until, amid many peremptory orders from the
captain’s bridge, much shouting and running to
and fro of Lascars, and excited preparation on the
part of passengers, the engines ceased working, the
great anchor was slowly dropped, and our vessel
settled into her berth in the still waters of the
harbour of Port Said.

It was a thrilling moment to a new—comer!
There, there, across the pale, shining sands, lay
Egypt—the land of the Mysterious River, the
magic country of one’s longing dreams. The land
of mosque and minaret, of turban and of yashmak,
of Pharaoh and pyramid and sphinx, of desert and
of camel : the old, old land of wonder, of strange,
weird mysteries; perplexing tokens left from the
days when the world was young—enduring there
in the golden sand beside the grand old river—a

_ heritage from the dawn of the ages.

The still water of the harbour was of a pale,

f - {greenish hue, and so marvellously clear that one

gigould watch the gliding jelly—ﬁshes far below the
:Sll-rface—wonderful jelly—ﬁshes, resembling huge
{button—mushrooms, of a beautiful, heliotrope trans-

.L fpz‘arency, with long streamers ﬂoating out beyond

1?
ll

3 32

 

