CHAPTER IX
IN THE CoPTs’ QUARTER

BEFORE we enter the Coptic church of St.
George, it is interesting to hark back to the days
when the Copts forswore the cult of Osiris and
were received into the fold of the Christian Church.

As far back as £1.13. 62 Armianus was appointed
bishop of Alexandria, and, during the patriarchate
of Demetrius, a century later, Christian com-
munities which are associated with the names
of Clement, Origen, and Pantmnus sprang up all
over the Delta. The third century saw the rise of
the monastic system, and from the Delta to the
conﬁnes of Nubia the ruins of early monasteries
show how rapidly the new religion took hold of
the people. Besides these ruined convents there is
hardly a temple that does not bear witness to the
religious zeal of these early Christians. Far distant
from Rome as they were, they probably suffered
less from persecution than did their brethren who
were nearer the seat of empire ; but, at this period,
quarrels amongst themselves did more to impede

100

 

IN THE COPTS’ QUARTER

their religion than the persecutions of any Roman
emperor. The teachings of Arius, a presbyter of
Alexandria, inﬂuenced the majority in spite of the
exhortations of their Bishop Alexander and the
eloquence of his deacon Athanasius. At the
Council of Nice in 325, which the latter attended,
Arianism was condemned, and Christians in Egypt
were ranged in two hostile camps. We do not
know whether this controversy was of much
interest to Constantine personally, but his son
Constantius, who succeeded him, threw in his lot
with the Arians. Athanasius was deposed and
exiled, and his followers were persecuted by the
Arians, but an Edict of Theodosius in 379 declared
the Orthodox Church to be the State religion of
Egypt ; and the Arians again suffered their turn of
persecution. A national church now rose side by
side with the State church, and after the Council of
Chalcedon in 4.51 the former fell away entirely
from the latter. The nationalists, who were the
larger party, were known as Jacobites, or Copts,
and the orthodox were known in Egypt as the'
Melekites. By the time of the invasion of Egypt
by Amr, the Caliph Omar’s great‘ general, the
Copts were ready to throw in their lot with any
one who might free them from the tyranny of their
Byzantine governors. We shall have more to say
of Amr presently.
IO!

4‘

 

