 

 

 

 

BELOW THE CATARACTS

with tons of fragments still to pack, but my time
was drawing to a close, and Karnak must ﬁgure in
this book.

To get on to a clean dahabiyeh after the dust and
heat of Dér el—Bahri was indeed a joy. I look back
with the greatest pleasure on my stay in the camp,
a sojourn which lasted over ﬁve months, and its
breaking up in dust and heat, in a confusion of
packing—cases, empty tins, and broken ‘antikas ’
not worth the transport to England, is not the
phase that I shall store up in my memory to
enable me to recall the happy time I passed near
H atshepsu’s temple.

When we reached Karnak my friend Erskine
Nicol moored the Maw} within ﬁve minutes’ walk
of the great temple. Howard Carter had given me
a letter of introduction to M. Legrain, who has
superintended the excavations there, and who must
have a more intimate knowledge of Karnak than
any man living; and my ﬁrst morning was spent
with this genial Frenchman and Nicol in “ doing ”
the various temples enclosed in this great area.

I had been, there several times before, but had
only a confused idea of this stupendous mass of
ruins. M. Legrain kindly told us the story of
Karnak, and pointed out the growth of this city
dedicated to Ammon. From foundations of the
twelfth dynasty we traced its history until the time

216

 

     

 

KARNAK

of Our Lord, a period extending over two thousand
years. There are also some remains, dating from.
archaic times,which would double that lapse of time;
but as we are only treating of such buildings as
lend themselves to pictorial representation, we
shall leave these earlier foundations to the archaeolo—
gist. M. Legrain began life as an artist, and went
through the Eco}: de: Bronx drrr, therefore his
artistic temperament, together with his knowledge
of the place, led him to take us to points of vantage
from whence the ruins were seen at their best.
The approach from the Nile, passing through
the avenue of ram-headed Sphinxes, is the best to
take in order to get the ﬁnest impression of the
great structure that dominates this vast area of
ruins. We enter through the gigantic portal
erected by one of the Ptolemies; this is the ﬁrst
main pylon. Its size is impressive, but its beauty
or interest need not detain us long. The great
court we enter prepares us for greater things to
follow. One standing column with calyx capital
attracts us more than anything else. The statue
which it probably once supported is gone, and of
its nine fellows that formed a double row in the
centre of the court nothing remains but the
pediments and some broken shafts. As we
approach it, it is relieved against the ruined pylon
of Ramses 1., its beautiful capital clears the ruinous
217

 

 

