 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

BELOW THE CATARACTS

queen took a prominent part both in state and
religious ceremonials, and it is curious to think of
this delicately—made, dainty little woman, suggest—
ing a creation of Botticelli, watching these religious
rites whilst she secretly fostered a heresy that was
to cause the downfall of this great Empire during
the reign of her son. The causes that led to
this reformation are not recorded, the priests of
Ammon, who were all—powerful, were not likely
to advertise the discontent that may have been felt,
and if the Augurs laughed, they laughed in secret.
Her inﬂuence may have been felt by her husband,
but it was everything to her son; and it was
left to this youth, when he succeeded his father,
to wage war against the power of the priesthood
and boldly to declare the existence of one Supreme
Being, whose physical manifestation was the sun-
disc. His very name, Amenhotep IV., became
impossible to him ;——“ Ammon rests ”—how could
he be called this when he was eﬁ'acing the name
of Ammon from the walls of every temple and
was building a shrine to the new god Atoni‘
“Akh en-Aton,” meaning “Spirit of Aton,”
should be his name from henceforth. For six
years he struggled to stamp out the worship of
Ammon, but the links with the past were too
strong in Thebes to be easily broken. With his
mother and the priest, Eye, who had ever encour

19o

 

 
 

THE TOMB OF QUEEN TYI

aged his reforming zeal, he set out to build a new
capital, which he would dedicate to Aton. He
chose a site some three hundred miles below
Thebes, now known as Tell eI—Amarna, but which
he called “Akhetaten,” “ Horizon of Aton.”
Here it appears he lived for the rest of his life,
like the Pope in the Vatican, not willing to set
foot on any land that was not specially dedicated
to his god. Tribute soon ceased to come in
from his Asiatic provinces, and at the close of
his reign the Empire had dwindled down to that
portion which is watered by the Nile. He left
no sons, and was succeeded by his son—in—law,
Sakere, of whom little is known. Another son—
in—law, Twet—ankh—Amon, succeeded the former
one, and after a while compromised with the
priests of Ammon and returned to Thebes, which
for twenty years had seen no Pharaoh. It was
probably during this reign, when the cult of
Ammon was restored, that Queen Tyi’s tomb was
entered and every reference to the accursed Aton
was obliterated.

The time at last arrived when we were allowed
to see this queen before her bejewelled mumniy—
case should be sent to Cairo and her bones once
more walled up in her niche at the foot of the
overhanging cliff. My friends, Mr. Henry Holi—
day, Miss Mothersole, and I were the favoured

191

 

 

 

