 

 

BELOW THE CATARACTS

book to enlarge on the archaeological interest of
these world-famed monuments. The name of
Steindorff at the head of the historical notice in
your Baedeker is sufﬁcient guarantee that these
interests have been well looked after.

How Mariette was led to discover these Apis
tombs, from a passage in Strabo, is given by
Amelia B. Edwards in her Tizourand Mafia: Up #1:
Nifr. This author’s impressions of her visit to
Sakkara leave little to be said by the writer of
this volume, whose recollections of a walk through
the dimly lighted vaults containing the sarcophagi
of the sacred bulls are all subordinate to the
remembrance of feeling nearly stiﬂed and of
longing to regain the fresh air outside.

The tomb of Tyi, which marks the ﬁrst great
epoch of pictorial art, enters more within the
range of this volume. The low reliefs that cover
the walls of this ﬁfth-dynasty sepulchre bear much
the same relation to the maturer art of the
eighteenth dynasty as that of Cimabue or even
Giotto does to that of Raphael. But whereas, in
the latter case, these periods are separated by only a
century and a half, and we can trace a continuous
growth, twelve centuries and more intervene in
the former. Neither is the development so con—
tinuous in Egyptian art. After reaching this high
level in the ﬁfth dynasty it sinks and almost dis-

124.

 

 

 

 

THE PYRAMIDS

appears during the following ones; it rises again
towards the eleventh, but seems to be entirely lost
during the dark ages of the Hyksos. However,
the art of this wonderful race appears to be in—
extinguishable ; for no sooner have the Thothmes
cleared the country of the alien rulers, than it rises
once more to the height of what we are now
admiring, and surpasses it before Ramses II.
makes it subservient to his own personal
gloriﬁcation.

Here, as in the work at Dér el-Bahri, the ﬁne
quality of the limestone allows of most delicate
cutting, and the ﬁgures in both cases are ﬁrmly
outlined, but are very slightly relieved from the
background. Being highly coloured a high relief
would have been superﬂuous. In spite of the long
lapse of time much of the convention of this early
work is still visible in Hatshepsu’s temple at Der el-
Bahri, and it is evident that the art of the latter is
a development of these mural paintings rather
than of the intermediate work of the eleventh
dynasty.

Later on we shall have more to say of the
eighteenth dynasty work, which, though more
subtle, surprises one less than these Tyi reliefs,
which are the ﬁrst manifestations of a living art
following a rude convention. A study of these
tombs of Sakkara helps one to appreciate the

12 5

