 

l

BELOW THE CATARACTS

was sitting near me whether there was always
water in that direction, he answered, “ Mirage.”
Never before had I seen this phenomenon in so
realistic a manner, and, wishing to share my joy
with some steamer acquaintances who were in
another compartment,I hurried off to point this
out to them. A careless “ Oh, indeed!” from
some of the fair sex, and a question from one of the
men as to whether I could tell him “ the exact
width of the canal," hurried me back to my part of
the train.

Pulling up, later on, at a commonplace little
station, the guard calling out “ Tel—el~Kebir ” was
rather startling, but I did not attempt to share
my emotions with my unsympathetic friends of the
mirage.

Not before reaching Zakazik does one fully
realise that one is in the Delta, where one recalls
the saying of Herodotus, “ Egypt is the gift of the
river ” ; for though the Nile itself is not seen till
the train nears Beulia, its inﬂuence is felt every-
where. Some of the landscape is very ﬁne; well
wooded, with picturesque water-courses. The
ruins of Bubastis are near Zakﬁz‘ik; these were
excavated by Professor N aville some twenty years
ago, but though of considerable archaeological
interest, their pictorial aspect hardly repays a visit.
Bﬁlak looks disappointing from the railway station,

8

 

' w——-'-_l_-_l-_l_|+-— —

PORT SAID

and being within such easy reach of Cairo one is
loath to break the journey. In another twenty
minutes or so, looking out to the right of the way
you are travelling, you will catch your ﬁrst glimpse
of the Gizeh Pyramids. Seen at this distance it is
hard to realise their size, and although I was
neither disappointed nor the reverse, I felt my
heart beating faster; and had the railway guard
asked for one more clip at my ticket at that
moment, I might have become dangerous. The
train rushes on. The Delta now visibly contracts;
the two ranges of hills that enclose the Nile valley
come into sight, the Mosque of Mohammed Ali,
which crowns the citadel, looms in the distance,

and you realise that your journey is coming to an
end.

 

