   
 

 

 

 
 
  

 

 

BELOW THE CATARACTS

asleep at the doorway of his harem seemed to
amuse the proprietor vastly; eSpecially when the
eunuch complained that he was in too hot a
corner, and I had to get Mohammed to hold a
arasol, in order that the sun’s rays might not
injure the blackie’s complexion.

The ladies had evidently been watching these
proceedings through the meshrebiya; for when
the eunuch had been roasted long enough to allow
me to complete his picture, some whispering and
giggling ended in his asking to be allowed to take
my drawing inside, to show it to the “Sittat.”
My picture——which is not meant to be a humorous
one—seemed to strike the “Sittﬁt ” as such, for
peals of laughter now proceeded from the other
side of the curtain. The eunuch presently returned
with my drawing, looking very crestfallen, and he
wept as he enlarged on all the indignities I had
subjected him to : but a little more “ baksheesh,"
and, as someone remarks in the Pilgrim’s Progress,
“ I saw him no more.”

This street of El—Merdani is a short one and
soon ends in the “Silk el—Sellaha,”——the armourers'
market. The stillness of the former street is en—
livened here by the tap, tap, of the gunmakers and
the sound of the bellows. Wild—looking Bedouin
or Syrian Arabs are having the ﬂint locks of their
long guns repaired ; old blunderbusses, Spears, and

4.8

   

IN THE STREETS OF CAIRO

a few mod ' '
and nondeii‘ﬁ.iiili‘§g;ilif ““3 “EM the 511°?“
ﬂoors; b ' ' n an rass strew
now: CO ”[111: :61: awpolpr show these gunsmiths mg:
was the arms fa it bygone days, when this Suk
story is often Iclory of the sultans. The lower
armourerrs abOd: tgat 18 left of some former
With a Prctt Hm. d partlally ruined mosque
minaret whiclil . e pattern on the dome, and ti
time he ascendIS-a pen] to the “muezzin” every
complete this .3 it to call. these smiths to prayer
The top of pﬁcttslriof idilapidation. 1
A“! and Sight_s:- u . Joins the avenue Mohammed
tramway cc”ninelncg 15 over for this morning. A
.quiCkeSt wa fg own from the citadel is th
y o getting over the mile of uninf

:terestin
_ g road that leads to the European q
- .uarter

“Of Cairo.

+9

