 

 

 
 

9
JV
{3‘ BELOW THE CATARACTS
the‘ Lake of Maryﬁt, and begun to cross the rich
alluvial soil of the Delta, than the whole landscape
is changed. Villadom comes to an abrupt end; the
trowsered oriental with his " tarboush’ gives way
to the robed and turbaned ﬁI/efz; the motor—car
can go no further, and is replaced by the camel or
the ass. The villages that are dotted all over the
landscape, as is the case on very productive soils,
must look much the same now as they looked to
the children of Israel, when they were less proﬁt-
ably engaged than at present, in the service of the
Pharaohs. The houses then, as now, were built
of mud bricks, and covered with a similar thatch,
or roofed with transversely laid palm trunks with
mud trodden into the interstices, and the dome may
also have been there, as we ﬁnd that form of roof-
ing in dynastic times. Each successive invader
adapted himself to what he found, as being most
suitable to the soil he had acquired, and though
the worship of Isis gave way to that of the risen
Christ, and Islam has since held sway, the appear-
ance of the landscape has altered less in four
millenniums than that of an English county has
done in four centuries. No dense forests had
to be cleared, as with us, before the deep alluvial
deposits which form the Delta brought forth corn.
It is true that corn is not the main crop now, but
cotton; but, in the general aspect of a landscape,

13o

  

 

 

 

1 I-
ALEXANDRIA TO CAIRO ..

‘a crop is a crop, green in its youth and mellow in
its age.

The minaret that bespeaks a changed faith is
seldom seen, which is accounted for by the dear—
ness of all building material except mud. A square
enclosure, built of sun-dried bricks with some rude
Arab decoration round the door, serves as the village
mosque. The tops of the chimneyless houses have
their ﬂat outline broken by layers of produce
placed there to dry, and often by broken pitchers,
which serve as nesting places for doves. The
peasants and their cattle live in close proximity,
and the head of a camel may be seen peering out
of a half-opened door. Increased irrigation has
extended the area of cultivation, and much marshy
land has been drained; but, on the whole, what
now meets the eye of the tourist, as the Cairo
express hurries him along to Shepheard’s or the
Savoy, is very similar to what met that of Joseph
when he went his rounds in Pharaoh’s service.
To the east, right away to the horizon, stretches
this tract of rich land, where the villages appear
to touch each other, then slowly to separate, and
become blotted out, one by one, by a nearer clump
of palms. The squeal of a “ sakiyeh ” isjust discern-
ible above the rattle of the train; it gets louder;
a tableau of an archaic waterwheel worked by a
buffalo glides across the foreground and, before

131 K; a

 

 

 

