 

 

 

 

BELOW THE CATARACIS

the streets. Those red ﬂags, hung across the mys—
terious little alley which we look down, betoken
either a marriage or a birth. The noise of hautbois
and drums in the distance suggests the latter.
Presently a procession headed by musicians turns
into the main street and approaches this alley;
the boy carrying the barber’s sign tells you that a
circumcision is also being celebrated, for the
humbler folk will often combine several family
events to lessen the expense. Two or three camels,
caparisoned in gorgeous cloths of red and gold,
with tassels swinging from their necks, carry each
a pair of kettle—drums, which the driver, sitting
cross-legged on the hump, is vigorously belabour—
in g. Several carriages follow, crammed with little
boys dressed in the gayest colours; these are the
companions of the one or two little chaps who
have made their ﬁrst acquaintance with the barber,
who, as in former times in England, combines
surgery with the tonsorial art.

A closed carriage forms the rear, and lattice
sashes, or a close drawn curtain, carefully conceal
the bride. Sometimes she is carried to her new
home in a little swing between two camels, fore
and aft. When funds allow, another set of
musicians follow this cortege; but more often
the female relatives and friends bring up the rear,
uttering a shrill noise betokening joy, called “e1

68

 

 

THE MOSQUE OF IBN TULUN

gaharit." g

.The poor bride has a long day of it, for,
previous to the wedding, a similar procession
follows her to the baths, and this is called “ Zeffet
el Hamman.” The furniture of her new house is
also paraded through the streets; those curious,
long, two-wheeled donkey—carts being used for the
purpose.

The upper classes generally adopt the Turkish
marriage customs, and the ceremonial and festivities
are more conﬁned to the house, but in neither case
does the bridegroom see the features of his bride
until the wedding has taken place.

My wife and one of my sons were invited to
attend the marriage festivities at the house of a
pasha where all was conducted “ a la Turque.” The
day had been spent by the principals in going
through the more serious formalities, and most of
the wedding guests only arrived at eight or nine
in the evening. My wife and my son,——who was
still too young to be objected to on the score of
sex,——were conducted into the harem, while I had
to join the male portion of the family, and their '
numerous friends, in the courtyard. Gaily coloured
hangings and Chinese lanterns brightened the scene,
coffee and cigarettes were continually handed round,
also sherbet and other non-intoxicating drinks, and
on a large da'is some musicians were playing an
accompaniment to the singing of the local Sims

69

 

 

 

