 

 

CHAPTER X

THE PYRAMIDS

 

THE great event after arriving in Cairo is the
excursion to the pyramids. No one can fail to
have an idea of their appearance, and all can learn
their age and dimensions, for nothing ever raised
by human energy has been more written about.
None, however, can feel the awe their size produces
till they reach the plateau on which the mighty
tomb of Cheops stands. One is gradually worked
up to this feeling from the moment when they
ﬁrst come into sight on the ﬁve mile road from
Gizeh. At ﬁrst they appear so small compared
with the objects in the near foreground; after a
mile or two one looks again, and the sense of
disappointment which the ﬁrst glance provoked
has hardly lessened. Their size increases as one is
driven nearer, but not to the extent one is led to
expect. Things look more hopeful as the carriage
reaches the limits of the cultivated land, and upon
arriving at the higher level, where one alights at

112

 

 

 

 

THE PYRAMIDS

the edge of the desert, the size of the Great
Pyramid begins to take hold of one. This
increases at an abnormal rate, as step by step one
ascends the plateau on which it stands, where a
sense of hugeness becomes overwhelming. The
colour helps this impression ; that of the rock an“
sand on which the pyramid rests is carried upward!
and blocks out most of the sky, till, nearing the
zenith, the pale gold tells out boldly against the
deep blue.

Would that one could be allowed to enjoy
these novel sensations in peace ! But the Bedouin
Arabs, who have settled here so long that they have
lost their nomadic instincts, are not disposed to
allow their prey to enjoy quietly what they
consider their property. Should it be out of the
tourist season, each one looks for a picking from
the rare stranger; but in mid—winter, when the
“ Sawarhine ” flock here in great numbers, one may
be subjected to the attentions of only one or two of
these pests. One has read up all, and much more,
than they can tell one in their broken English, and, at
moments when one’s own thoughts and impressions
are quite sufficing, uninvited information is very
exasperating. They are handsome, picturesque
looking fellows, and if they left one alone their
presence might be acceptable, as they harmonise
with the surroundings, and help to scale the size of

113 I

 

 

 

