 

" Tm__

 

 

CHAPTER XX
RossT TA

UPSETTING the chronological order of my travels
I will ask the reader to accompany me to Rosetta,
where I stayed for some time about ten years
ago.

To avoid the heat of Cairo in July, I transferred
my sketching ﬁeld to the Lebanon, where I stayed
sufﬁciently long to allow Damascus to cool down.
While at the latter place I heard from my old
friend Henry Simpson, who declared that Rosetta,
where he was staying, was of all places in the east
the most paintable he had ever struck. Rumours
of the possibilities of Rosetta had reached me
before, but being conﬁrmed now by one whose
appreciation of the picturesque is almost unique, I
decided to proceed there as soon as my work in
Damascus should be over. I caught a boat at
Berﬁt that coasted from there to Alexandria, and a
ﬁve hours’ journey in a very slow train took me
from the last port to “ El—Raschid,” as I was now

254

 

 

 

 

ROSETTA

taught to call Rosetta. More concerned with the
pictorial possibilities of the place than with its
accommodation, I had made no inquiries about the
latter, but, had I looked into a Baedeker at the
time, I should have noticed that he says “ no inn ” ;
and as we had no boat and no tents I might have
cried oﬂ’. However, my friend met me at the
station, and when I asked if we were far from the
hotel, Ithought I detected a smile when he told
me the ‘hotel’ was within a ten minutes’walk. The
queer old town looked very picturesque as we
approached it in the dusk, but the queerest sight
of all was the ramshackle old building which the
proprietor called the “hotel.” The lower stories
were let out for the storage of any articles that
would not suﬁ‘er damage should the upper part fall
in. There was not much in them except some
heaps of charcoal and straw, under which the rats
hurried when I looked in. Simpson warned me
not to mount the stairs till the luggage had been
carried up, and that it would be keeping on the,
safe side for only one at a time to ascend. It was
still light enough to see that the staircase had
evidently been an afterthought of the architect,
who had run it up the side of the tall building in a
zig—zag. It was covered in and looked like a
square tower butting against the wall. A wide
crack showed that staircase and hotel were about to

255

 

