   

 

 

 

BELOW THE CATARACTS

centre of Fostat, but close to his palace and the
houses of his nobles.

Plans were drawn out by his greatest architects;
but a difﬁculty here arose. The great Emir was a
man of culture and a scholar, and would not sanction
the destroyal of the temples to furnish him with
the columns, éoo of which were required. His
tolerance also forbade his demolishing the Christian
churches for that purpose. A Coptic architect who
was at the time a prisoner in El—Katai submitted a
plan to solve the difﬁculty. He proposed to substi—
tute for the columns piers built of burnt brick,
reserving but two pillars of coloured marble to
stand on each side of the “ Kibla.” The grandeur
and originality of the design was appreciated by
Ibn Tulﬁn, and the Coptic prisoner was entrusted
with the carrying out of his plans. This ﬁne
mosque, worthy of the sacred site it covers, was
begun in 876 and completed in two years. It has
done more than any other great work of its founder
to keep the name of Ibn Tuli‘m fresh in the
memories of his countrymen.

The Liwan, or Cloister, at the south-eastern side,
where the “ Kibla," the niche that points in the
direction of Mekka, stands, is formed of ﬁve rows
of arches, one of which has now disappeared, while
a double row runs round the other three sides of
the square. The general plan is that of most

64

 

 

 
  
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
   
   
    

THE MOSQUE OF IBN TULuN

' :mosques of from the ninth to the twelfth century ;

but a striking feature is the presence of the pointed

.‘.;'nrc~h at so early a date. There is a slight inward

curve where it Springs from the pier, but not
sufﬁcient to remind one of the Moorish horseshoe
arch. At the corners of the piers a half column is
let in and serves as a chamfer. A smaller arch, of
similar proportions, pierces the spaces between the
larger ones, which lightens the appearance and also
lessens the weight the piers have to carry. A run-
ning pattern, round both arch and the teps of the
piers, relieves the otherwise extreme severity of the
design. This ornamentation was all worked with
a tool in the plaster while this was still moist, and
has a life about it that no casting or stencilling can
give. The magniﬁcent wooden pulpit is, alas !
but a skeleton of what it was. The place was for
so long uncared for, that most of the ornament
within reach has been stolen, either to sell to the
collector of curios or even for use as ﬁrewood. The
Kibla, surrounded with a double arch, supported on
two pairs of marble columns, is richly embellished
with mosaics and precious stones. Its proportions
are very ﬁne, and it is a gem of colour, while the old
Kuﬁc lettering of the texts above add greatly to the
Character of the place, and are most decorative.
One gets charming perspective views while

tmoving along under the shadow of this liwan and

65 F

