 

 

 

 

 

 

 

BELOW THE CATARACTS

alleys composing the “Sﬁk es—Saigh” are almost
impassable. Women will sit for hours on the
“ mastaba,” or door—step, watching their ornaments
being made, or cheapening some necklace they con—
template purchasing. The patience of the mer-
chant seems inexhaustible. I have seen the whole
contents of his shop turned over without a single
article being bought, and yet he would dismiss his
visitor with the same blessing that a Christian dealer
might only reserve for a solid customer. His coloured
silk robes contrast curiously with the black garb of
his female client. He knows nothing of her ; the
black veil that hides her face, with the exception of
a pair of beautiful eyes, so disguises her that he
would not recognise her again. She may come and
sell her jewels here in public, and no one will be a
bit the wiser as to who it is who has to realise.
Were a man to dispose of his plate, the whole
bazaar would soon know who he was, and be dis-
cussing the losses that compelled him to part with
his valuables; for the Cairene is extremely inquisi-
tive in everything relating to money. It cannot
be said that the “ Yashmak,” with that curious brass
cylinder ﬁxed between the wearer's eyes to keep
the veil in place, is becoming ; its folds are tanta-
lising, for should her nose, mouth and chin be as
ﬁne as her eyes, she must be a beautiful woman.

Modesty compels her to hide her well—shaped
24-

 

   
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
   
     
  
   
    
 
  
  
 

IN THE BAZAA RS

fnﬁﬁ‘gure in the long black shawl, but she enshrouds it
'gwith such art that its beauty gains rather than loses
5by the partial concealment. Contrary to her
European sister, who adorns herself most lavishly
film about to appear in public, Arr coloured gar-
.m'ents, and the necklet she hopes to buy, will rejoice
lit'ﬁcye of no man save her lords, and will only be
seen by her lady friends in the shelter of the
’-' harem This tantalising veil, which may hide
much beauty in her case, is a saving grace in
A .._:y§:.'otl_1ers. Compare her with the woman who
ﬁts" j é,iPn'g‘; on an earring a few shops further on; here
‘ﬁashmak ‘” has been discarded, and her face
“ﬂ"snher shame ; her eyes would be beautiful
[ind] nfiﬁ' at. disﬁgured them with “ Kohl,” but her
Wilqﬁeeks and coarse mouth decide one that,
ﬁn] Matuvffgsthe veil would be very becoming—and
din Ml-pksTSh'an too, for her magenta dress with
wgnillnﬁ fs’YitS might well be blotted out of the
F’Wd' '

disiuy1‘_’dvances further into this bazaar the air
{grass luggand at every turning one looks ahead',
filings—11g 15,63 the main road again. Some
‘3‘“: '.'-”°';;§1‘_nen, blocking the way, here thrust
mnminro “Mousa’s” cupboard of a shop,
(is) lid: din“"'irsaéwarhine” pass. Slowly you move
m, WEED] you reach the N ahassin, and
lMMEB :el {Ence more.

., 25

  
   
  
  
 
   
 
 
  
  
  

 
 

 

 

