BELOW THE CATARACTS

of just under three—quarters of a mile. Thirteen
acres does this base cover: something more than
the whole square of Lincoln’s Inn Fields.

The great blocks of stone that are superimposed
in receding layers, and which appeared like bricks
from the road, contain forty cubic feet, and,
according to the calculations of Professor Flinders
Petrie, 2,3oo,ooo of these blocks were required to
construct this pyramid. Imagination fails to
stretch back sixty centuries to the time of its
raising. Stonework weathers very little in the
desert, therefore the colour does not help you. It
is true that what we see has only been exposed to
the elements for ﬁve centuries, when the outer
casing was taken to be utilised for building
material in Cairo, about the time that Hasan’s
mosque was erected. It is only a wonder that
such a convenient quarry, with ready-faced stones,
had not been worked even earlier.

The waste of human energy in raising such a
tomb is appalling. Professor Flinders Petrie, in
defending this, states that the workmen were only
put on during the high Nile, when their agricultural
pursuits would of necessity be stopped: but the
time of the ﬂood is the most trying time of the
year, and it is a mistake to think that the native
does not feel the heat. The “fellah,” who has
changed very little physically during these sixty

116

 

 

 

 

THE PYRAMIDS

centuries, and is naturally a hard worker, slacks oﬂ’
a good deal when the excessive heat sets in. We
remember that the labourers in the vineyard who had
“borne the burden and heat of the day” appear not to
have liked it, though the heat of the day in Palestine
is not nearly so oppressive as it is during the late
summer in Egypt. Herodotus relates that, to build
this pyramid, the labour of one hundred thousand
men was required during a space of twenty years,
and Flinders Petrie does not consider that this is
an over estimate. To feed and discipline such an
army of workmen shows a wonderful power of
organisation; while the work of quarrying these
stones in the Mokattam Hills, ten miles away,
bringing them here and adjusting them with such
marvellous precision proves a high state of civilisa—
tion, which is hard to reconcile with the senseless-
ness of this unproductive undertaking.

I am told that the contractor for the Assuan
dam amused himself, while staying at Mena House,
in making out an estimate of what it would cost
him, with the present—day machinery at his
disposal, to build the Great Pyramid. This worked
out at six millions. Also it would be interesting
to know what it would work out at, if only the
appliances of the fourth Dynasty were used.

We have spoken so far of only one pyramid, but
you will ﬁnd that, though the second one of

117

 

 

