— — ‘vwv-v—v- —--——-'-‘

 

BELOW THE CATARACTS

party forbore to try and solve the riddle of the
Sphinx until the good padre had left them. A
powerful effort not to yell with laughter was re—
quired on another occasion. This delightful old
priest had designed a treat for some members-of
his ﬂock in Old Ireland, and this was to send them
a photograph of himself, dressed as an Arab Sheykh,
sitting on the hump of a camel, gazing away to
the far horizon, with the Sphinx and the pyramids
looming up in the background. His shaven jowl
looked comical enough under the turban, and the
thin, pale extremities visible beneath the folds of
the “ burnous " reminded me of the cockneys that
one may see paddling on Margate sands on a bank
holiday. However, he seemed pleased, and no doubt
his flock in Ireland would be pleased also; all might
have been well but that there remained the camel to
reckon with. The beast did not seem inclined to rise
upon its legs and needed a good deal of persuasion ;
the peculiar growl they give when they ﬁght shy
of their burden seemed on this occasion to suggest
that he did not see the joke. Donkey boys, who
are ever ready to use their sticks, now assisted the
drivers, and in response to their protests, the hind
quarters of the ungainly brute rose suddenly, jerking
the Irishman forward, then up went its neck, before
our friend had righted himself, causing the heads of
the ridden and the rider to come into violent con-—
:20

f .338 .

 

0:.-

-‘ - 4 .—

 

"‘~ I-O' -
‘ C

 

 

THE PYRAMIDS

tact, and a bleeding nose and a rapidly swelling eye
showed that the poor priest was a good deal hurt.
It is fortunate that his ﬂock did not hear his powerful
language; but, addressed as it was to a camel un—
accustomed to the Hibernian accent, the words fell
on deaf ears, and the brute’s expression was as im-
movable as that of the Sphinx. I was not privileged
to see the photograph, and though I saw a good
deal of. the padre afterwards, and can remember
that eye going through all the colours of my
palette, we somehow avoided the subject of Arab
Sheykhs and camels, and only touched lightly on
photography.

The excursion from the Gizeh pyramids to
Sakkﬁra is a delightful one if the previous night
has been spent at the Mena House Hotel; but to
attempt to combine the two expeditions in one day,
starting from Cairo, is to crowd more sights into a
short space of time than the mind can appreciate.

The hire of camels can be arranged for at the
hotel, also the provisions for a long day’s excursion.
However much one resents the existence of moder-
nity in the vicinity of these grand old monuments,
one speedily forgives that of the Mena House
Hotel. Few more delightful places to stay at exist.
Away from the noise and the smells of Cairo,
yet near enough to be able to spend a day in the
town ; the large terrace where one can sit sheltered

121

 

 

 

 

 

