 

 

BELOW THE CATARACTS

Theban necropolis. Not much is known of Nakht
himself beyond what these walls tell us. He is
alluded to as a scribe, and was probably a priest of
Ammon, or connected with that powerful body of
men, which was so important a factor in the destinies
of the New Empire. He lived about the time of
Hatshepsu, and during his lifetime the preparation
of his ﬁnal earthly resting place had evidently inter-
ested him keenly. He had seen enough of animal or
bird-headed gods and goddesses, and probably valued
them at their true worth, and he preferred that
his spirit should live amongst the scenes where his
heart was ﬁxed. References to Ammon were
there, for a belief in a bodily manifestation of
the Supreme Being was probably always held, even
when the Augurs were laughing. By a curious
irony of fate, these references were later on
ruthlessly defaced by the Pharaoh whose one great
object in life was to substitute for the worship
of the host of Theban gods that of a god made
manifest in the sun-disk. The letter offended
Ikhnaton more than the spirit, for he could not
dissociate the name of Ammon from the priest—
hood which he was trying to crush.

Nakht's pleasures were those of most well—to—do
country gentlemen. He is depicted supervising
farming operations, from the ploughing and sowing
of the land to the winnowing of the ripened corn.

2o4.

 

 

 

 

THE M ENTUHOTEP TEM PLE

He is also shown personally seeing to the vintage and
the wine-pressing. Judging from the excellence of
the representations, sport must have been his chief
delight, the panel, where he is spearing ﬁsh, and
where birds are being caught among the marsh
growth, is most decorative. You may also see him
and his wife at table, while his cat is eating a ﬁsh
which was probably not prepared to N akht’s liking,
and, surrounded by his household, he is entertained
by dancers and musicians.

I chose three of the latter representations as an
illustration, partly because they were in a good
state of preservation, and also because the wall they
are on received enough daylight for my purpose.
The costumes of these ladies were well suited to
the high temperature I

The limestone of the rocks in which these tombs
are cut is a coarser quality than that at Dér el—
Bahri, and had been prepared with a cement before
the colour was put on. The delicate cutting of
the low reliefs in the Hatshepsu temple had to be
abandoned, and a slight attempt at shading was
resorted to here to relieve the ﬁgures. The effect
is not so good, and defective parts where bits of
the cement have been knocked off, or are detaching
themselves from the wall, give it a look of shabbi-
ness that is never noticeable in the reliefs cut in
the stone itself, be they ever so much damaged by

2o5

 

