 

 
 

'1.

 

 

 

 

BELOW THE CATARACTS

Almost opposite to you now is the entrance to
the Khan Khalil, known also as the Turkish
Bazaar. Built in 1300 by the Mameluke Sultan,
El Ashraf Khalil, it has ever since been the com-
mercial centre of the old town, though its import-
ance is doubtless very much less now that large
shops and stores have sprung up in the new quarters
of Cairo; shops where a more or less ﬁxed price
saves the long and wearisome bargaining which a
purchase in the native quarter entails. It is still,
however, one of the liveliest and most picturesque
places in the town. To the right you pass some
large carpet stores, which you are politely asked to
enter ; on your left silk merchants offer “ Cuﬁyeh ”
for your inspection. These are silk shawls usually
worn by Syrians instead of the turban. If you look
like a possible purchaser, a Cingalee will press you
to walk into his shop, and whisper that his goods
are only half the price of his Moslem neighbour’s.

You pass on, and ﬁnd yourself at the entrance of a
slipper bazaar, where you look down an avenue of
red and yellow slippers ; stacked on counters, hang—
ing in festoons from the awnings, and in clusters
round the doorways—everywhere slippers! Red
: is the prevailing colour, for that is the hue the

;' Cairene prefers for his foot—wear. The yellow

ones are chieﬂy brought from Tunis or Morocco,
and sold to the country folk. Rolls of red leather
26

  
    
  
  
   
 
  
     
   
  
  
 
  
 
      
 
 
     
    
    
  
  
 
  
  
 
     
 
   
 
 

IN THE BAZAARS

are stacked up in the little shops, where men are
busy cutting, stitching and sewing slippers and
ships of red are strewn about the ﬂoors. Nro sec

13 a stranger seen looking this way than a tout will
thrust a pair of slippers under his nose '-—“Onl
two shilling!” “Come, see my shop.’; “Ve Y
pheap!” You may vainly assure this bore that
your portmanteau is stuffed with slippers- that
Ion hayc supplied all your friends and relations
;. th.sllppers, and that you have come to loathe
tile; Sight of a red slipper. “ Red slipper not good ”
:sfwers the bore, “ see my Tunis slippers ” 3th
bile. he hurries ofF to get a yellow pair, yoit may:
""‘illlto the carpet bazaar, as a means of escape.
.m ‘garpet merchant has had his eye on you all
“31%“ others have tried this mode of escape.
. .i.‘_.‘»‘;" n-H-some rug 1s deftly unrolled before vou
. another thrown behind you cuts off .011;
tats“ “Don't care for red carpets,” you say in
uh—éa‘tmn; and the moment he has turnedyhis
L52”.."iemh a green one, you clear the prostrate
saga“ 31 Intake for the outlet in front of you. You
smart} Egmain alley of the Khan once more and
. {a :~;dlstance from the red slippers, but, the
(maybe can give the Arab points has out-
{33v- u W‘lﬁu‘ He has a number of “ Ruﬂiyeh ”
amt-[om of shoulder, and while congratulatin
you; [1in 93.,i13'sein,” his neighbour, had not beer?

27

 

