 

. a

V

BELOW THE CATARACTS

the ﬂocks,” and signs were not wanting that this
place was used for that purpose.ﬁ The temple was
three or four miles inland but there would be time
to walk over to see it and get back before dark to
the boat.

Egyptian landscape has a charm quite its own ;
one may often see something in Palestine that may
remind one of some familiar bit of country at
home ; the Lebanon in places recalls similar views
in other mountainous districts ; but the flat stretches
of land, that are watered by the Nile, recall no
other place, and belong to Egypt alone. No
fences cut up the view and give it the look of a
badly—drawn chessboard; a change in the colour
alone indicates where one crop may be more
forward than another, or where one has been
gathered in ; and the desert hills on the eastern and
western horizons ever remind one that Egypt is “ the
gift of the river,” for when the fertilising waters
reach the limits of their level the fat land changes
abruptly into a howling wilderness. Though still
early in May, the harvest was nearly over, we
would pass a yoke of oxen treading the corn near
which some peasants, taking advantage of the
breeze, were separating the wheat from the chaff.
Flocks of sheep and herds of goats were being
slowly driven over the stubble in the direction from
which we came, to be watered at the Nile where

24.0

 

 

 

 

‘1: ..

THE TEMPLE OF DENDERA

the banks slope sufficiently to make the water
accessible ; and Nicol could console himself that. we
had tied up at the very place for his subject, as we
were told that the ﬂocks were watered there every
evening.

The scene of my Operations now came in sight ;
the dust was rising from the broken grey walls
and the débris that usually surround a temple, and
through this we could dimly trace the outline of
the ﬁfadr. The soil which partially covers these
ruined habitations near the temples is of value to
the ﬁf/a/zi'a, and is sold to them by the Antiquities
Department. It is in digging up the ‘sebagh,’
as it is called, that an occasional scarab or other
‘ antika’ falls into the hands of these peasants,
and in paying for the privilege of clearing away
this dust the off-chance of a ﬁnd no doubt enters
into their calculations. We shall speak later on of a
record ﬁnd made during one of these Operations.
The donkeys that carry the tourists from river to
temple during the winter are turned to account in,
the summer for carrying sacks of this manure
from the temples to the ﬁelds. This dust has
often obliged me to abandon a sketch. The space
in front of the ﬁfade has fortunately been
cleared, and allows us to appreciate its symmetry
and ﬁne proportions from a suitable distance.

The Greek inﬂuence is strongly felt in the

24.1 R

 

