 

 

  

”saw THE CATARACTS

flair? ‘53" Jill Sadaat, but some ﬁne meshrebiya
is; WE n at 9are all the outside world can see of the
n -_ t 1‘ v .

rhis grand old house. It was my good

0
‘1, , .
Emmy (as~ . he kh
{imam-lave been introduced to the late S y

m 31 Li anal friend, therefore I was allowed to
~ .'in1Ebhe_‘e as much as I pleased. No house more
mm my mind the pictures of Lew1s. An
(yin—pans willow grows in the courtyard, its JIleaylvz:
Wiﬁgainst the beautiful lattice—work. o 1a 3
W. s, and under its shade a fountarn tp Gym;
L'1..}'3rivate mosque of the Sheykh nsha 1 c
odor of this court and the entrance of t e argn
stption—room at the other, wh1le 1n allrooe—
u'ztween the two the old man genera y r}
hived his guests, whom he would 1nv1te. t: :11
on the raised cushioned ﬂoor upon whrc e

  

  

 
 

 

  

  

  

 
 

  
 

"Twill-11:: I ﬁrst visited him, the sight of this old
man in his yellow silk robes and enormous turﬁan,
sitting cross-legged on a Persran rug, wrth a ye OT
silk cushion to ease his back, and the. smoke clpr;
ing from his “ chibouk ” making the little touch cl;-
cool colour in a harmony of pale gold——-the .w o I:
seemed to suggest a very clever “ tableau vivant

I l' y t
after some picture of Benjamin Eonstanlt s. :1
tan a wo
' I could not speak or un ers
that trans: duc-

of Arabic, and it was moreover my ﬁrst intro h
tion to an oriental grandee. I could not rayt e

56

 

OLD CAIRO

wrong thing, as my friend, Choucri Tabet, who
introduced me, would be sure to interpret any
remarks of mine in the way most pleasing to our
host; butI was nervous about doing the wrong
thing, and felt rather at a disadvantage in my
very ordinary attire. This slight awkwardness,
however, was only of short duration. Coffee and
cigarettes were handed round by a blackamoor,
almost before the ﬁrst greetings were concluded,
and my friend and host were soon engaged in a
lively conversation. Some joke would make the
old gentleman hold his sides with laughter, and
then, fearing lest I might feel a bit out of it, he
would insist on my friend’s interpreting it to me ;
and when he was sure that I fully appreciated the
point he would laugh again till the tears rolled
down his cheeks. His appearance and his beautiful
Surroundings made such an impression on me as
u‘uite to obliterate from my memory what the sub-
Ject of the joke was. It was a charming place to
I allowed to paint and I hope that, should oppor—
hit}? permit, the dear old Sheykh’s successors
prove equally kind, and accord me the
same; privilege.

féhese houses have been slowly evolved by the
ﬂecié‘é’siaties of the climate and the social and
ions laws of the people. To make life bear-
dil‘fing the many months of hot weather, and
1 5 57

-I

    
   
   
      
        
       
     
       
       
    
    
    
  
   
       
  
  

  
   
   
  

   
    
 
  

 
  
 
    
   

 
  
 
  
   
     
      

 
 
 

 

