 

BELOW THE CATARACTS

doors; the central open court, the ‘liwﬁn,’ or
sanctuary, with prayer-rugs and pulpit, on the
Mekka side; and ﬁnally the domed scpulchre of
the Sultan. Though built a century after Saracenic
architecture had reached its highest level, it may
still be considered one of the gems of Cairo.

Working our way from here, either round or
over the mounds of rubbish, we reach the Sharia
esh—Sharawani,—the continuation of the Muski,
and so return to the European quarter.

A tramway runs from el-Ataba Khadra, near the
central post ofﬁce, to what is known as Old Cairo
or Masr—el-At’ika; it passes down the Boulevard
Abd-ul—Aziz, then takes a turn towards the Nile ;
and from where the Kasr—en—Nil bridge crosses
the river we follow its course to within some two
or three hundred yards of where the line ends.
The trees and ﬂowering shrubs help to disguise the
ugliness of the modern villas that we pass on the
way, but what we see of Old Cairo from the
tramway is less interesting than much that we have
seen in parts of Cairo even more deserving of the
title old.

We walk up the bazaar to the left of the main
road, cross the railway, and at the end of a narrow
little lane we pass through a gateway in the
encircling wall of the Roman fortress of Babylon.
Dilapidated buildings hide too much of the

98

 

 

ANOTHER RAMBLE IN OLD CAIRO

remains of the castle to enable us to appreciate
its importance. The inhabitants of this quarter
seem shy of strangers ; possibly an inherited fear of
an unwelcome visit from the alien people outside
their enclosure. However, through some grating
we have been recognised as being nothing more
alarming than “ Sawarhine,” and a prospect of
backsheesh brings out some of the inhabitants, who
follow us through this warren till we reach the
church of St. George, or Mari Girgis.

There is so much similarity in the conditions in
which these people live and that of the dwellers in
a Moorish “ mellah " (the Arabic Ghetto), that it
would not have surprised me if our followers had
had a Jewish type of countenance, instead of a
complete absence of the Semitic features which are
so common amongst the Arabs.

The Copts, into whose quarters we are intrud-
ing, are Egyptian of the Egyptians. Their very
name, derived from the Greek “Aiguptios” and
contracted into the Arabic “ Kupt,” helps to prove
this.

Of all the dwellers in the Nile valley these are
the ones which appeal most to our sympathy, and it
is pleasant to think that, after centuries of oppres-
sion, they can enjoy a full measure of freedom
under the British occupation of their country.

99 H2

 

 

 

 

