 

111111

Sh'_

BELOW THE CATARACTS

times retails these as he goes along, carrying Elfin—t
water-melon in his hand: He stops a; eyegye deal-
stall on the chance of doing a more w_ o esh came;
(1 this is a long process, often keepmg t e .
an d' lon enough to allow of a careful drawing
Sta? lngade g These fruit-stalls, which are rigged up
Pang Inodd- corner, or the more permanent ship:
iii]; {vith apples, oranges, anddlelmrilriiillanldapse :f
' elons, make a erg
bdrloiii'lei: iiiosnt]l of the streets. The salesman fie]:
:n inherited instinct seems tohfeelllitlllle IfégEJI-rcoouplds
' wit w 1c
fair thedlzaldild a:sdtltIIemstiiason advances, tall bundles
his flight-Lane, lean against the wall, or_ :11 at;
:wkward angle, with their long, greyIS —gre

leaves. . . . fin
When it is one’s fate to remain in Cairo du g

the heat of the summer, or early autuplm, $2112:
a certain extent compensated by t‘:1 eh;dows of
beauty of the streets. The shapes an hs ads 0,.
' s which are slung across t e ro ,
the airduiii with poles over the shops and stlalls,
Eddpinormously to the picturesqu:ne:s.suf;i:::
large canvases and bits of matting a mi 10w With—
light through them to impart a witrht: g0 16 also:
out casting too black a shadow. ' pmrple; gar—
are much more picturesque in their slu h. Often
ments ; for the ugly bits of European c ot mg

52

 
 
 
 
  
  
   
    
   
    
    
   
   
       
   
  
  
   
   
 
 
  
   
   
    
 
   
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
  
 

" w

OLD CAIRO

worn over their “gelabieh,” are only seen during
the comparatively cold weather. Nor are the
tourists, there, whose dress harmonises so badly
with eastern surroundings. Children play about
half-naked, and their elders move in a manner
more becomingr to the dignity of an oriental.
So much more goes on in the streets here than
in more northern countries; the goods for sale
are displayed on the pavement, and shops, as
uropeans know them, are not seen.
A little way down the Derb el-Gamamiz, through
a large doorway, up some steps, you get a peep
into a Dervish monastery. The large paved court-
yard, beautified by trees and a pretty tiled fountain,
looks inviting from a hot and dusty street. Some
sycamore trees are also in the roadway near here,
fjustifying the name “ gamﬁmiz," opposite these is
the gate of the Viceregal Library. To students of
.ofiental languages this library is all important, and
or those more interested in the art of the country
thu- . in its literature it is well worth a visit, were
Shut to see the illuminated copies of the Koran
.1: v'ch it contains. Every facility is here given to
3 'pcan students, and this is not always the
’_'_.in a Moslem library, which is usually almost
”;YREI' j devoted to works connected with the
l I i of M ahommed.
-e?.-M_:i‘nistry of Education is next door. Of

5 . 53

H... .

 

