-v—vﬁ—
_- .—-— - - -

BELOW THE CATA RACTS

of gold which Providence had sent to Mahmoud !
The ambition of every ﬁlled to own a bit of
land instead of working the land of others was
now within realisation. Though “ Allah ” had
been gracious, it was more than He could expect
that Mahmoud should part with his ﬁnd, and only
content himself with an inadequate reward. But to
keep a secret was more difﬁcult than Mahmoud had
imagined ; for half the pleasure of becoming rich is
gone if one has to keep up the appearance of
being poor. The Omdeh, meeting him a few
days later, noticed that he was better dressed than
usual, and chaffed him about looking such a swell.
“ Ah, don’t you think that yes: are the only rich
man in Karnak!” answered Mahmoud, as a
boastful spirit got the better of his discretion.
“What do you think of this?” he cried,
showing the Omdeh a handful of coins;
“ and there are plenty more where these came
from.”

Seeing that they were not coins now current,
the mayor of the village ventured on a few leading
questions, and soon pumped the whole secret out
of the peasant. For the rest of that day the old
rascal schemed how he might get possessed of these
gold pieces. The “two-faddah” copper coin in
circulation among the poorer folk is about the size
of a sovereign, and, brightly polished, might possibly

24.6

 

 

 

THE STORY OF THE FIND AT KARNAK

pass muster for the more valuable coin in the dimly
lighted hut of a ﬁfleiz who was unaccustomed
to handling the “guineh.” Anyhow, he would
try it. That same evening the Omdeh pro-
ceeded to Mahmoud’s hut, where he found our
friend alone and keeping guard over his treasure.
“ You are lost, 0 Mahmoud! ” he whispered; “ the
people in Luxor have got wind of your ﬁnd, and
it has got to the ears of the Mudir. A couple of
soldiers are now on their way to arrest you, and you
will lose all you have found, to say nothing of
being beaten and locked up.” Poor Mahmoud
from the height of bliss now fell into the depths
of woe. He grovelled at the feet of the Omdeh
and implored him to help him out of the difﬁculty.
l“‘I am always, as you know, ready to stand by a
fellow villager,” answered the old humbug, “ but
you must do exactly whatI tell you. The amount
of your ﬁnd is not known, so, when the soldiers
come, produce only half, and I will buy from you
the other half. A guinéh will I give you for each
coin you sell me, and these I can secrete in my'
own house. One of my servants will warn me
when the soldiers arrive in the village.” Mahmoud
was only too thankful to save so much from the
wreck of his fortune and counted out 3oo coins,
for which he got in exchange an equal number of
two-faddah pieces, which were dropped into a sack

247

 

 

 

