   

BELOW THE CATARACTS

state of preservation when I attempted to paint it a
few years ago, so we may hope that the workmen
may soon cease to disturb the solemnity of the
place.

The Mﬁristan Kalaun is the most important
monument of the latter part of the thirteenth
century ; that it should be carefully preserved is all
important; and the sound judgment shown by
Herz Bey in most of the work committed to his
care, leads one to hope that preservation rather
than restoration is what is being done in this case.

Passing through the black and white marble
portal, we will follow the N ahassin till we get to the
Sebil of Abd—er—Rahmz’in, leaving the handsome
tomb-mosques of Bab-en—Nasr and Barkﬁk on our
left. Here we shall again enjoy the perspective of
this enchanting street before diving down the narrow
lanes leading to the Gamﬁliyeh. A camel laden with
tumbak, the coarse kind of tobacco smoked in the
nargilehs, may so completely block the way, that,
if you cannot duck under the panniers, you may
have to seek refuge in some doorway until the brute
has gone by. One or two larger khans in these
narrow streets appear to have fallen on bad times,
for the cigarette is replacing the nargileh, and
the tumbakiyeh shows signs that its trade has
drifted into other channels. A mosque, at the
corner before you turn into the Gamﬁliyeh street, is

90

 

 

 

 

ANOTHER RAMBLE IN OLD CAIRO

in such a state of disrepair that it looks as if the
tumbak merchant thought that his business was
past praying for.

The main street we are now in has much of the
life and bustle of the Nahass‘in, but all is on a
poorer scale. The shops look less proSperous, the
silk robes of the merchants are replaced by the blue
cotton galabieh, and the distinguished beauty of
the street we have left is replaced by a rugged
picturesqueness. At an angle to the road, the
entrance to a spacious khan makes a good vantage
ground for a sketch, while a stone seat on either
side of the gateway looks as though placed there on
purpose to accommodate a sketching stool, which
probably accounts for the many times this Gamaliyeh
has been painted. One is slightly raised above the
heads of the people while the angle of the wall
protects one from an inquisitive crowd in the rear.
Even when not painting this street with the mosque
of Bibars rising in the centre of the picture, it is a
useful corner from which to make rapid studies of
the people as they approach or recede from one.

I witnessed a curious incident when I was last
ensconced in this doorway. A man was leading a
camel and calling out to every shopman as he passed.
The beast bore no load, so I could not think what
the man was hawking. Occasionally someone
would stop him, and appear to take an interest in

9I

 

___-—‘—-——*———————___i——r——_ m

0

