 

 

BELOW THE CATARACTS

brass lamps, bowls and dishes displayed upon the
stalls on each side of the entrance. Lamps hang
from every stall in the alley which leads to thlS
gateway, and the one that crosses it at right angles.
What a picture 1 But where is one to sit to attempt
to paint. it? My faithful Mohammed IS a man
of fact, but could all his ingenuity ever make .tl'll’S
a possible task i‘ It seemed impossible to obtaln a
sketch of it without sitting in the middle of the
lane, but the trafﬁc is so great that an attempt
from that point of vantage had to be g1ven up as
hopeless. Arrangements had to be made wlth a
brass—worker to allow me to sit on hls stall and
to place some of his furniture between me and a
too. inquisitive crowd, who had soon formed up,
three deep, to see what I was about. My know:
ledge of Arabic at that time was nil, so Iremalned
in ignorance of the magic by which the faithful one
was able to get all these concessions from the owner
of the shop. The latter not only drove the small
boys away, but served me with tea and cigarettes ,
attentions which were rather embarrassing, as I
knew I had begun a subject that meant a great
many sittings, and I was not in a POSItIDﬂ to buy
half his lamps to compensate him for the trouble I
should give him. However, my work soon en—
grossed all my thoughts, and the fr1endly shopman
ceased to exist for me. What a bothersome thing
.. 30

 

 
 
  
  
  
   
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
   
 
  
  
 

 

 

IN THE BAZAARS

it was to paint I No sooner had I drawn some
elaborate lamp, and was trying to get it into tone
with its surroundings, than a tourist must have
that particular one down for his inspection. I
might be feeling rather pleased that a patch of
sunlight was beginning to get its tonic value in my
picture when down would come some awning, and
that part of my subject would be blotted out. The
noise of this awning descending would remind other
shopmen that it was time for theirs to come down
too, with the result that there would be very little
of my subject left, and that little so altered in tone
that no more painting was to be done that morning.
On my way home I asked the faithful one how
he worked it with the shopman. “ Well, I ﬁrst told
" him that you were a nephew of Lord Cromer, and
-. 3Ithen hinted that it is just as well to make friends
'.«.‘with those in power ; besides this, I represented to
Jim what an advertisement it will be for his shop
when all the great people in Cairo see the picture.”
ﬁgetorted that I was not particularly fond of sailing
unﬂer false colours. “ Then, Sir, when you have
M“;"ed I will tell him it was all lies,” he com-
a. .1". --I_tly replied. The extraordinary thing is that in
8.1 wlaéecwhere lying is carried to such a ﬁne art any-
mygsuld be found to believe these statements.
A .gpord supply of cigarettes the next day aided

.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

s

mum] {further ingratiating myself with the vendor
31

 

 

 

 

       

 

