 

   

i
BELOW THE CATARACTS

mausoleum of Sultan Hasan, in the centre of which
stands his sarcophagus. The dome, which is such
a feature from outside, forms the sepulchral canopy.
It is a true dome, and if your eye can penetrate the
gloom, it can look up the I go feet that it rises from
the ground.

An unworthy monarch was this sultan, who lies
in so stately a resting—place. We forgive him a
great deal for having raised such a magniﬁcent
monument ; but we cannot pardon him for the
dastardly manner in which he rewarded the genius
who designed it. So fearful was he that another
might employ his architect to raise a memorial
which might eclipse this one, that he ordered the
right hand of the designer to be cut off.

In spite of the disturbed times in which this
cruel sultan reigned, he was able to devote much
time and treasure to building mosques, colleges,
mid convents. Nineteen, in Cairo alone, are

c *gcorded as having been erected by him during the
ten years of his rule ;——a strange record for a licen-
tious and cruel tyrant. It may be of satisfaction to
some that he met with as violent a death as he had
so often inﬂicted on his subjects. A few days before
his murder, one of the minarets fell, crushing goo
children in the school below, and one only now
remains of the three original minarets which were
completed (there were to have been four), and that

78

w—— _--.-—--—— —
I

 

 

 

 

"V

 

I

 

THE MOSQUE OF SULTAN HASAN

is the taller of the two now standing. In 1660
the great dome collapsed, and has been replaced
by the present one.

During the troublous times of Hasan’s later
successors, guns were not unfrequently mounted
on the terraced roof, from which one faction
would try to dislodge another in possession of
the citadel; and during peaceful intervals we
hear of a tight-rope being stretched from one
of the minarets to a citadel bastion, and the
Blondin of those days performing on it, to
the delight of the crowds assembled in the
square.

Facing the Sultan Hasan, stands the unﬁnished
mosque Rifaiyeh, called after a sect of dervishes of
that name; which contains the family vault of
Ismail Pasha.

We now retrace our steps towards the entrance
of the citadel, and descend the Sharia el Magar.
A neglected little mosque, with ﬂuted dome nestling ‘ ‘ .
close to the minarets, makes a charming picture
whether you look down towards it, or whether yoti '
pass it and look up the street towards the citadel
mosque just visible in the background. Further
down a dilapidated house has crumbled sufﬁciently
to CXPOSC an unimportant but delightful tomb
mosque, with two stages of its minaret gone. It
IS a ready—made composition, and a sheltering door—

79

 

 

