A “.‘..“'

  

 

    
  
  
    

 

   
    
  
 

. ”-+.—-—_.-.‘ -

  
  
   
   
  
  
   
   
  
  
 

   
  
 

 

 

 

 

  

BELOW THE CATARACTS

as the ‘ simoom.’ The rising temperature, a change
in the colour of the sky from blue to grey, and a
stillness in the air, prepares us for its coming.
This absence of any air stirring may last some
time; the grey sky turns to a yellowish hue in
the south, and a preliminary hot puff or two tells
us that we are in for it. A long blast of hot air, as
if the gates of the Inferno opened, now follows. It
picks up the sand as it moves across the desert, and
the distance is lost in a yellow fog. I have tried to
paint the effect, but could not lay on a wash of
colour, so rapid was the drying. Palette and sketch
had surfaces like sand—paper before I could get a
second wash ready, if my board faced the wind, and
ifI faced it myself I was blinded with the sand. I
hope to try it again but not on the spot. The
only way for a painter is to treat the ‘ khamsin ’ as
he would a wet day in England, and devote his
time to doing the hundred and one things indoors
that a long Spell of ﬁne weather has made him put
off. One asks oneself how one will be able to
stand May or June if it is as hot as this in
April. I have, before now, packed up all my warm
clothing during an early simoom, to send them
home by perm citrus, but have thanked goodness
a couple of days later that they had not gone off,
as a change in the wind has made me hurry to get
them out again. When it blows from the north

214.

 

 

KARNAK

once more its bracing effect puts one in such good
Spirits that even the fear of a return of the enemy
does not damp them; one ﬁnds that one has not
suffered in vain, for that plague of Egypt, the ﬂies,
will have very much abated; and the hot wind
has also thinned out the tourists, while those yet
remaining regret that they were somewhat premature
in securing their berths on home—bound steamers.
April in Egypt is never Spoilt by rain, and whether
it is a paradise or an inferno during that month
is determined by the quarter from which the wind
blows.

I returned to Luxor by a night train as I did
not like facing the ride across the cultivation till
the sun had gone down. Der el—Bahri had cooled
down a bit when I reached it the next morning.
The excavations were over and every one had left
but Currelly, who was seeing to the packing of the
detachable bits of Mentuhotep's temple, previous
to their going to London. The Hathor cow of the
previous year, that had been acquired by the Cairo
Museum, was accepted by it as a sufficient share
of the ﬁnds to allow of all that had turned up this
winter to fall to the share of the Egyptian Explora—
tion Fund. My personal luggage was soon packed
and sent on a camel to the river’s edge opposite
Karnak, where my friend Nicol’s dahabiyeh lay. I
was sorry to leave Currelly alone in this furnace,

215

 

 

