BELOW THE CATARACTS

behind the cliffs, so I must really have slept some
time ; it was very nearly dark, but I could see an
object lying where the loudest bark came from, and,
feeling about for a stone, I lit on a bit of Currelly’s
palmolithic collection and let fly at the dark object.
I hit it, but it proved to be an empty petroleum
tin, and not my enemy. The noise seemed to wake
no one else ; happy people I I got into bed again
and soon fell fast asleep. I dreamt that the noise
was awakening the dead, and that mummies were
creeping out of every pit I had passed on my way
here. Then I felt like a mummy myself, and
dreamed that the tombstone which covered me
was making attempts to raise itself. A cold shiver
ran through me at each of its efforts. A sensation
of lightness as though the stone had lifted entirely,
and the frenzied dance of an empty petroleum tin
which appeared to be making merry awoke me
completely. A howling wind had risen, and my
heavy Tunis blanket had disappeared in the dark-
ness. I tumbled about the stones in search of it
and bumped up against a man. This proved to be
one of the guards who had come to my assistance,
and who found the blanket. He spread this over
the bed so that a piece overlapped and rested upon
the ground on each side. Half an Osiride ﬁgure
was lifted on to one piece while I stood on the other
to keep it in place. I could not face the wind for the
I 52

 

   
      

THEBES

—_' " ﬁlms and my ears and neck smarted from the
—_ Hééﬁzfiﬁles that were blown against them. F rag—
Entrants of temple were now placed on the portion
ﬁfe-the blanket upon which I had been standing,
- faind Ifound my way to the dressing-tent to put my
' clothes on, as I was now bitterly cold in nothing

but pyjamas. How this tent stood against the
‘ wind was a marvel. Hearing the major's voice

I peeped out and found he was struggling to

.disengage himself from] his canvas, which had

. been blown down. The striking of matches in
3 ‘ iﬂi’éinext tent, which was still standing, showed that
th§W1nd was too much for Dennis, and that he
['stgpreparing to spend the night in the hut in
pefélfénce to being enveloped in his. The guard
{filling to his mate to come and help woke
ﬁreﬂy, and the boys arrived with lanterns. They
obliged to extract the mattresses from the
ents,and Grifﬁth and Dennis slept indoors, while
@ﬁrﬁelly and I decided to see the night out where
"sewers, and, tying handkerchiefs over our faces,
m'ilsgep the dust out, we got into bed again. I
Wit-ankf‘ul to have got into my clothes, for my
9316.1":qu blanket of which I had boasted was not
in—eitSelf to keep out the increasing cold.
“a r‘that had awakened us all seemed now to
r; Huyl ﬁns to sleep, and I knew no more of the

‘—

  
  
 

‘-

   

  

   
  
   
  
  
  
   
 
  
 
   
   
   
 
 
 
  
 
  
   
  
 
  
   
 
  
   
     
   
    
 
 
 
 
 

I53

 

 

 

 

