 

 

’
BELOW THE CAIEIARACTS

this mosque. The waste of land encumbered with
debris, that separates F ostat from Cairo as we know
it, was formerly occupied by a faubourg of the
original town, El—Askar, or “ the cantonments,”
which arose after the Omayad caliphs were super—
seded by the Abbasids in 75o. The Governor built
his palace here, and it soon bore the same relation
to Fostat as the West-end bears to the city of
London. Further north stretched the wards allotted
to the different nationalities that formed part of the
Emir’s retinue. It was when Ibn-Tulﬁn came to
Egypt to govern it as the representative of the ﬁrst
Turkish caliph in 868 that these wards were chosen
as the site for his government house. El—Askar
stretched to the hill of Yeshkur, beyond which rise
the walls of the present capital, enclosing Tulun's
mosque, of which we have spoken. Fostat and
El—Askar lost consequence as the new royal suburb
arose, and nothing now stands of either to testify
to their importance save this ruinous mosque. E1
Katai, or “the wards,” fared little better; it became
a town the splendour of which Arab historians never
tire in relating; its site is covered with houses
of a much more recent growth, and only the
deserted mosque that bears his name remains
of the glorious faubourg which Ibn Tulun built,
and that his son Khumaruyeh beautiﬁed. The
descriptions of the palace, the “ Golden House,”
Io3

 

 

 

C
IN THE’COPTS’ QUARTER

the “ summer pavilion,” or “dome of the air,”
and the gardens and fountains, probably inspired
the writers of the ﬁred-1hr: Mgktr more than
the actual surroundings of Haroun al—Raschid,
which were less luxurious than those of his suc-
cessors.

Though Amr built the ﬁrst mosque in Egypt,
that which we see now standing has probably not
a square foot of the original structure in it. “ The
Crown of Mosques,” as the Arab warriors called
the ﬁrst place of worship that they erected in their
newly-conquered country, was a poor looking struc—
ture compared to what these people have built since
they assimilated the art of the Copts and became
largely inﬂuenced by the culture of their Turkish
rulers. It was rebuilt on a much larger scale nearly
two centuries later, and restored in 1798 by M urad
Bey. Most of what we now see is therefore of the
ninth century ; so it may still claim to be Cairo’s
oldest mosque. The marble columns supporting
the huge arcade were the spoil from existing or
ruined Christian churches, and their not matching
each other seemed to have troubled these early
builders very little; a little shortening of one, or
lengthening of another, made them suit their
purpose ; they might, however, have taken a little
more care, and have placed all the capitals the
right way up !

[09

 

- -.-—-.-..--_—_.—-.—.

 

 

 

