_ -— 'l - _.—.-_

BELOW THE CATARACTS

as a setting for groups of camels, Bedouin tents, or
much else of the furnishing of an oriental picture.
Its name of el—Hakim doubtlessly adds to the interest
of the place. I feel sorely tempted to purloin the
account of that extraordinary caliph which Stanley
Lane Poole gives in his Story qf Cami, but as
this delightful book is within easy reach of anyone
visiting Egypt, I cannot do better than recommend
it to my readers.

In a vacant space,outside the Bab-en—Nasr, and ad-
joininga large Mohammedan cemetery, one can often
watch the antics of “ Karakush,” who corresponds
to our Punch. Under the shadow of the old wall
a motley crowd form a circle around the performers,
who generally comprise a man, a small boy, a dog,
and a monkey. A free use of the stick keeps the
small boys from encroaching on the area that
“ Karakush ” considers necessary for the perform—
ance. The jokes, which may date from the Moslem
invasion of Egypt, have lost nothing of their zest
from constant repetition, and it does one’s heart
good to hear the roars of laughter of the audience.
These witticisms are coarser than would be
permitted at an English seaside resort, but they
must be judged from another standpoint. What is
hidden or only hinted at with us, is here considered
an innocent form of amusement ; and broad as the
jests often are, they are reﬁnement itself compared

94-

 

 

ANOTHER RAMBLE IN OLD CAIRO

to what may be heard and seen in the more modern
part of Cairo. “ Karakush,” whose very name now
brings a smile to the face of a Cairene, was, however,
not a comical personage in" his day ; for he is
described as one of Saladin’s most faithful emirs,
and we hear of his doing nothing more humorous
than repelling crusaders, whose uninvited visits he
considered an impertinence.

Merry—go—rounds, that might serve as models in
Punch’s Prehistoric Peeps, are often set up here;
and on religious festivals large tents project from
the walls, in which the people, who have had their
laugh at “ Karakush’s ” ribald antics, may witness a
Zikr. A dozen or more dervishes will here form
into line, and, taking the lead from one of them,
will slowly sway backwards and forwards, repeating
the name of Allah. The movement gradually gets
faster and more violent, the performers seem to
lose all consciousness of their surroundings, until,
having reached the limits of physical endurance,
they will fall out and lie about as if in an ecstatic
trance.

The great cemetery which borders on this open
space, and actually invades it here and there, in no
way detracts from the hilarity of the crowd. It is
unenclosed, and tombstones may serve as seats, or
for small boys to practise leap-frog. Amongst these
graves is that of Burckhardt, the oriental traveller,

95

 

 

 

 

