 

 

 

$0“? THE CATARACTS

this city ; but, unhappily, the Cairo one lives in is
not the beautiful old town one has come to paint.
They lie side by side, but have little in common
save the sky that covers them both. Accommodation
is not to be had in the old quarters, or little of the
new would ever trouble me. The people have as
alien an appearance as the houses they live in ; to
make their fortunes as rapidly as they can out of
the natives or the winter visitors, and then to retire
to their own countries is, of course, the raiser: d’ei‘re
of their presence, but this bit of modern Europe
harmonises badly with its neighbour, the picturesque
mediaeval city.

Before the Hotel du Nil closed its doors it was
possible to live in the midst of the surroundings
one had come so far to paint; but the artist now
must live in the modern quarter, and the spirit of
that quarter (to make all one can and as quickly as
one can) is very liable to have a bad effect on his
art. If you stop at a modest inn where few of the
British colony would dcign to call, it is irritating
to be charged much the same as at a ﬁrst-rate hotel
on the Riviera; but put up at one of those huge
caravanserais that cater for [a fleet: ssrzis‘té', and
you are charged exorbitantly for the privilege of
using rooms where a show of costliness does not
console you for the poor design and colour of the
decoration and furniture. Some units of this ﬁesta

134

 

 
   

 

 

 

ALEXANDRIA TO CAIRO"

1961'!!! are no more to your liking than the preten-
tious apartments, and visits from those who ignored
your existence when lodging in humbler quarters
can easily be diSpensed with. Most of one’s day
is Spent in the more congenial surroundings of the
old city; but to eat, drink, or sleep, one must
return to these less congenial quarters. One recalls
with regret the simple inns in Italy, where, if the
fare was modest, the reckoning was still more so,
and the kindly welcome of the padrone made one
forget both.

It is perhaps unreasonable to eXpect things to be
different, and for a short stay it does not matter,
but if one is sojourning for some time, number
so—and—so, whose spending capacities are all that
interest the host, is liable to suffer from home sick-
ness. However, during the last two years I have
fortunately been able to do my work in more con—
genial surroundings. The dahabiyeh, the tent, and
the excavator’s camp have been all much more to
my liking.

Life on a dahabiyeh, as the house—boat of the
Nile is called, is as near an ideal state of existence
as an artist can ﬁnd on this earth. There are but
few places in Egypt that cannot be reached by
these boats ; and to have a home on board one of
these, with sympathetic companionship, a studio,
and a dependable climate, near a chosen sketching

I35

 

 

 

