 

 

 

 

 

. . BELOW THE CATARACTS

high lev’eétthat art had reached in the earlier perlpld.
A- distinctly Greek inﬂuence 1s vls1b1e 111 e
architectural design of the sanctuary, as in all the
monuments remaining of the Ptolematc t1mes;
and this is possibly an advance. It looks as thougl‘:l
the 'architects had learnt their art 1n Greece, an
had conﬁded the carrying out of the decoration.to
workmen who had lost the inspiration of therr natlve
art yet had not entered into the sp1r1t of the Greclan.1
This same sanctuary became later on the chap:1
of an early Christian community, and Its walls 3.11:
roof are still blackened with the smoke from t e
altar candles, or the torches . that llghted the
sanctuary during the celebration of the Ma?
This chapel is hewn out of the cllffs, and the san —
stone walls and rooﬁng were evidently used .to
withstand the downward pressure of the nummuhte
limestone above. There are traces of the base
of an altar in Hatshepsu’s shrine of offerings, to the
left of the sanctuary, and in every case, where the
heathen gods were not hidden by church furniture,
their faces have been obliterated. .
Walls rebuilt by these monks leave us speculatmg
whether they enclosed dormitorles or refecftoriy.
Little regard was shown for the desrgns o t e
ancient decoration ; a stone w1th beautlfully cut
head of a Thothmes would be put up51de down, 1t
it ﬁtted into the wall better that way; and the legs

174

AMONG THE TEMPLES ‘ .

of a god may only support a meat—offering on the
stone above. On spaces not covered with
hieroglyphics or relieved by ﬁgures‘ﬁ' one can ﬁnd
sentences inscribed in the cursive or hieratic
writing, or in the demotic, which is a development
of the latter. An inscription in Greek characters
records a prayer to Aesculapius, probably scratched
here by some workman brought over from Greece
during the Ptolemies, while a further interest is
given to this stone by an amendment of a Coptic
monk, centuries later, who, after cutting a cross
above this prayer, has written underneath—“ No
one heals but God himself.” Some other Greek
has cut his high—soundin g name on a stone, beneath
which we ﬁnd “Crocodilos” written in another
hand whose owner was apparently moved by the
same spirit that we occasionally see evinced when
the name of a Briton, scratched on a wall, is
followed by—“ is an ass,” written by another in a
lighter mood. Nineteenth century names are
happily rarer here than on many monuments ; for
fallen masses of débris, until the century’s close, had
preserved these remains from modern desecration.
The view from this upper terrace is remarkably
ﬁne. Standing with your back to the overhanging
cliﬂb, you look across a mile of the wilderness
which forms a part of the Theban necropolis. The
fertile plain, transversely cut by the Nile, is backed
in the distance by the hills of the Arabian desert.

 

I75

 

