 

 

 

 

  

BELOW THE CATARACTS

Another tomb to the left of the great shaft was
found, as more debris was cleared at the foot of the
cliffs, and the huge granite sarcophagus it con—
tained, and its situation near the sanctuary of the
temple, suggests its having once contained a royal
mummy.

Mrs. N aville was for weeks occupied in arrang—
ing and sorting the fragments belonging to seven
little shrines that had stood on the upper terrace,
and enough remained to enable her son—in-law to
reconstruct on paper a completed one. The design
was very beautiful, and the sculptured ornamenta—
tion on some of the fragments nearly equalled the
work of the XVIII dynasty. The drawing of the
ﬁgures on parts of the remaining walls of the terraces
is inferior to the later work, being more the con-
ventional tradition of skilled workmen than the
living art of personal genius, such as one sees in
the Hatshepsu temple. It is to be regretted that
one of these beautiful little shrines could not have
been reconstructed and allowed to remain in rift: as a
ﬁne example of XI dynasty work. As fragments
they will now help to ﬁll some shelves in different
museums, but their value as a piece of architectural
design will be very small. To have left one
would, however, have entailed the erection of an
iron framework to protect it from the natives, and
standing as it would have done in an iron cage, its
198

 

 

TH E MENTUHOTEP TEMPLE

effect among these ruins would have been rather in—
congruous. Were it possible to make the receiving
of stolen fragments an indictable offence, or to
enforce such laws as exist, these interesting records
might often be allowed to remain in their proper
surroundings: but it is a difﬁcult matter ensuring
the safety of these works of art in a country where
public opinion is not alive to their true value. If
a thief is caught in possession of stolen antiquities,
it is almost impossible to get a conviction from a
native magistrate, who is ready to do a deal in
antiquities himself. As an instance of how venial
a sin the stealing of an ‘antika ' is considered by
others than natives, the following may illustrate.
A lady, who before being attacked by the col—
lector’s mania would not have stolen a pin, brought
a scarab to our camp, and asked Currelly to help
her to decipher the cartouche and also to appraise
its value. Currelly decided that it was a sham,
very much to the lady’s disappointment ; but, loath
to believe that she had been taken in, she gave
her reasons for still maintaining its genuinepess:
“Achmet” (the donkey boy) “assured me that
he had stolen it from the dig, and he has such an
honest face that I am sure he was speaking the
truth ! ” When the laughter had subsided—even
that of her husband—it dawned on the good lady
that there was something a bit out in her argu—

199

 

