_.....s\., w 11-11:} CATARACTS

of a visit. The relation which that church bears
to the one we are now in, is much the same as that
of a picturesque old country, parish church to an
elaborate cathedral, but I found it worthy of a
good many visits, even with the thermometer at a
hundred in the shade. When inside the old fort
there was much to recall the aspect of the interior
of the fortress of Babylon ; some fowls scratching
about a midden and a few cattle sheds imparted a
ﬂavour of the country that is absent here, but the
same stillness, the same almost windowless houses are
common to both places. The kindly old priest
who showed me round seemed so much a part of
the basilica thatI found it hard to realise that I
was talking to a contemporary. His dress and
surroundings all savoured so much of the middle
ages that I felt as though I had slept and wakened
up six centuries earlier. The fort inside which
this church and cluster of houses stand belongs to
the early empire ; it stood there 3,ooo years before
the convent was built, but as there were no signs
of human activity visible to mark the centuries,
time seemed stationary. The priest interested me
as much as his surroundings; the little world in
which he and his family live is all sufﬁcient to
supply their needs, and an occasional journey to
Balliana, the town on the Nile bank ten miles
away, brings him sufﬁciently in touch with the

M4.

 

 

 

 

 

 

IN THE COPTS’ QUARTER

doings of the outside world to enable him to appre—
ciate the peaceful happiness of his remote village.
“Salam Alekum l” both to the padre and to his flock.

If time allows it is well worth while to visit all
the six churches in Babylon. The name given by
the Greeks to the Roman fortress is a puzzle to
archwologists; it is suggested that it may be an
imitation of one of the names given to the eastern
suburb of Memphis which stood here at a remote
age; but this seems vague. The massive towers
and bastions, and what one can still see of the
walls, is all that visibly remains of the old city of
Misr. Old Cairo, or Masr el-Atika, which lies
between us and the river, dates later than the
thirteenth century, for, till then, its site and that
of the modern quarters of Cairo was all under
water.

Most of Egypt fell an easy prey to Amr, who,
we are told, invaded it with only 4.,ooo troopers,
and the Copts, possibly not realising that the
Moslems had come to stay, were glad of this help
to free them from the tyranny of the orthodox
Byzantines. The taking of this castle was another
matter, for here the representatives of the Empire
were supreme. Amr had to be heavily rein-
forced, and not till after a seven months’ siege
was he able to reduce this stronghold. From
April, 641, when this fateful event took place,

105

 

 

