BELOW THE CATARACTS

natives are carrying incense trees towgrds till:
ships, and their type, differing from the ghyp fcv;
was no doubt carefully studied from the k t
Puntites who accompanied the exped1t1on. ac 3
Thebes. Many stones in this wall are misslilng, ain-
are in different collections in Europe; t err 1p
terest there, as broken and disconnected frafgnuleitimsii
is slight compared to what it would Ibo 1 ipbaabl
in their proper setting here. More {1:113 Er nS t:
been done in one century by these co ec 1fo their
rob the ancient monuments of Egypt 131 h _
decorations than has been done' by the o bail;
medans during the twelve centuries they have e
m Th}: :oollblilli‘y in parts has almost disappeared as
portions of these walls were for a long t1me expose
to the weather, and though rpm 13 2:03;]: t:::;'c—1
rin so lon a lapse o t1me .
healirceejfldllen gto waslgi away some of the pigngenst:
But where a protecting drift of sand has acted am:l
shelter the colour is still quite fresh. The re a in
yellow ochres have stood tillehlitgﬁ; 5:31:11 agpown
awa b the san t a .
Elgﬁiisstwfli: wall: )The blacks have entirely 32::
where they have been exposed for years Itomﬂst
sun, and the blues and greens have gone in
in the dee cuttings.
Plalilgl'iefiffhese paintitfgs have been protected from

17o

 

 

r—t—

TeHE TEMPLE 0F AMMON

rain, sun, and more or less from the wind, they
have all the freshness of colour they had 35oo years
ago, when the artists in Hatshepsu’s employ were
adorning her sanctuary.

There appears to have been but little mixture of
pigments. A ﬂat, conventional tint would be laid
on each object represented by the relief, without
attempting any realisation of the exact hue, but
these colours were so disposed over the whole wall
as to make a very handsome decoration. A frag—
ment, where neither sun, rain, nor any other
cause has subdued the crude pigments, is often un—
beautiful in itself, but as a part of a large decorative
scheme it could not be bettered; and often these
causes of deterioration have so blended the colours
of an individual stone that it has become an object
of extreme beauty. ‘

It would indeed be a graceful act if any owners
of the missing portions of the wall representing the
Land of Punt were to return these to their original
setting. The writer would willingly supply them
with a cast of the same, coloured so that none but
an expert would know the difference, and he feels-
sure that Mr. Weigall would be only too happy to
restore the originals to the blanks upon the wall to
which they by right belong. Mr. Somers Clarke,
the honorary architect to the Egyptian Exploration
Fund, has reconstructed the missing portions of the

I71

 

