BELOW THE CATARACTS

scorpions are hibernating, another as kitchen, and
the others house such live—stock as the owner
possesses. The dwellings vary a good deal accord-
ing to the position of the tomb which forms the
nucleus. This is, in places, some feet up the side
of a cliff, when a square-roofed hut is built against
it, enclosing the entrance, and the tomb itself serves
as a second apartment, having a few stone steps
leading into it. .

Descending the ridge of land near these dwelhngs,
one observes the entrances to sepulchres with
closed iron doors, with the slopes down to them
cleared of debris and an ofﬁcial number on each
lintel. They are less picturesque externally than
those that we have passed, but they evidently
possess something of importance. These are some
of the tombs of the Sheykh Abd el—Kurnah; but
we shall have occasion to speak of them later on, so
at present we continue our road.

A ruined mud—brick tower, with some walls
above, suggests the remains of an early Coptic
convent; but I am informed that they date no
further back than the early part of the last century
and are the remains of the house in which Wilkinson
lived. Here he collected most of the material
for his “ Manners and Customs of the Ancient
Egyptians,”——a book considered out of date by
some, but which is most interesting readmg, and

I44

 

  
 
  
    
 
    
  
 
  
  
   
   
   
   
  
     
   
   
  
  
 
  
 

THEBES

‘: '77i'_slfillustrated with great knowledge by the author.
“H He died, I am told, by a gun accident, in this
J‘Qljouse‘ where he had spent so much of his time.
:When the poor man was dying, a fear that sus-
picion might fall upon his servants caused him to
send for the “ Omdeh" or chief of the village, and
he made’a declaration that his carelessness alone had
caused the accident, and that no one but himself
was to blame. This probably saved the necks of
his servants, for in those days a suspicion was often
enough fatal to those upon whom it fell, especially
if a foreign Government pressed for an inquiry.
We now enter the huge amphitheatre formed by
f ﬁlls: limeStone cliffs that circle round the western
i‘iéiiﬂifﬂfzthe Dér el—Bahri valley. The terraced and
., inunaded temple of Hatshepsu stands at the base,
‘._-‘di faces the temple of Luxor some four miles
#32. Upon the other side of the Nile. It would
hfﬁ‘ﬁ'been hard to ﬁnd a ﬁner site, or a more im-
pig background than this. A low stone hut
ans-Er to us, and to the left of the temple, is at
moment interesting me more than anything .
11313 for this hut is to be my home for the next
”months. The dust arising from the founda-
mﬁfi an earlier temple to the left of that of
PI. 'u‘s;§;r~;'3howed that the excavations were in full
ammgzidiswe could hear the sing—song of the crowd
(iii ‘311011 the dig.

145 L

