 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"

BELOW THE CATARACTS

 

the inscriptions are far inferiol‘fo those at Der el—
Bahri, the interior lends itself to pictorial treat-
ment perhaps better than any part of its far-famed
neighbour. The calyx—headed columns and the
Hathor capitals of the piers, with the doorway of
the sanctuary, compose beautifully in certain lights.
Traces of colour are left upon these capitals and
on the winged sun—disc over the door.

Ptolemaic temples have one great advantage
over the earlier ones, and that is, that they are in
a much better state of preservation ; in fact, some
can hardly be called ruins. Save the furniture,
which is now mostly in museums, the temples of
Dendera, Esneh, and Edfu stand to—day very much
as they were when ﬁrst erected. For grandeur they
may bear the relation to the earlier work that a
live mouse does to a dead lion ; but it is something
to be alive !

There is much to paint at Medinet Habu, a
mile further south. The twentieth dynasty decora-
tions in the great temple of_ Ramses III. look
extremely coarse after the delicate reliefs at Der el-
Bahri; but so many of the eighteenth dynasty
inscriptions had been scraped off by rival factions
or succeeding Pharaohs, that Ramses III. was
determined that his should survive. I was at some
pains to take measurements of the earlier reliefs,
and I could hardly realise how shallow these were.

173

 

 

 

 

 

AMONG THE TEMPLES

In the Punt serileg’,’ where the background is cut
away, the modelling and relief of the ﬁgures are
given in a depth that never exceeds 113th of an
inch. The smaller ﬁgures are not relieved by
more than ﬁnd of an inch, and sometimes less. The
larger ﬁgures on some of the columns are not
relieved from the background, but their outlines
are incised. Bold as these outlines look, I found that
they never exceeded 133th of an inch in depth, and
the beautiful modelling of these ﬁgures is all within
that depth, as I proved by using a straight edge
across the face of the column. The reliefs of Seti I.
are slightly higher at his temple at Abydos, and I
can recall no work in relief of the time of
Ramses II., but only incised inscriptions, which
seemed to deepen during his long reign. By the
time of Ramses III. I found these incisions had
reached a depth of from four to ﬁve inches. The
restorations of Ramses II. at Dér el-Bahri are in
relief, but it was more in imitation of that of his
predecessor than quite typical of his own time.
The coarser surface of the stone and the larger scale
of the building might account to some extent for the
inscriptions being cut deeper; but the fear of
erasure must have chieﬂy led to this. A
palimpsest—that is, an inscription cut over another
——would be very difﬁcult where the outline of a
hieroglyph is nearly ﬁve inches deep and two

179 N 2

 

