 

BELOW THE CATARACTS

more than ﬁll a volume. To appreciate Karnak
one must live in its proximity. During the three
weeks I spent with Nicol, while the Mani: lay
under the bank near the great temple, our time was
too much occupied with painting to allow of our
studying the place as much as we should have
liked. So far, the reader has only accompanied us
through the series of temples dedicated by succeed-
ing Pharaohs to the worship of Ammon, and much
that could be told of these is precluded by the
limits of space.

Tucked under the north girdle wall stands a
little temple erected by Thothmes III. to the
Memphite god Ptah, which was added to under
the Ptolemies. Towards evening the shadow of
the great temple spreads over the intervening
waste, and the sun—lit columns of this chapel rise
up from the pearly—grey foreground. The russet
colour of the embankment receives the golden hue
of the capitals, and is in its turn relieved by a
group of palms beyond the enclosure. It is a
pretty subject, but at this time of day subjects are
not hard to ﬁnd. When the white light of the
midday sun beats down on the vast mass of grey
ruins through which we have wandered, a lack of
colour makes it hard to treat pictorially, except in
black and white.

M. Legrain conducted us to this chapel of Ptah,

228

 

 

 

MORE ABOUT KARNAK

and the heat and blinding light of the early
summer sun made us long to get within its shade.
Passing through two rooﬂess courts, we entered a
small covered chamber and almost ran against the
statue of the lion—headed goddess Sekhmet, before
our eyes had got used to the darkness of her abode.
She is a magniﬁcent creature, and one is thankful
that she has not been grabbed up by some museum,
but is allowed to stand where Thothmes placed
her. Legrain told us that he found her here a few
years since, but broken into some sixty pieces.
Fortunately, none were missing, so he was able to
piece her together with inﬁnite labour, and he has
been allowed to retain her here in her suitable
surroundings. This lion-headed Goddess of War
is awe-striking as she appears in the gloom
of this chamber; but I have studied her present—
ment in other lighting, when a certain look of
dowdiness has replaced the awe—inspiring appear-
ance which she had here. Perhaps a slight
likeness to a lady pew-opener, whom I remember,
may have helped this disillusionment. Something
in her headdress reminded me of bonnet strings, and
the sun—disk gradually changed into that emblem of
perpetual widowhood, the crape bonnet, which I
cannot dissociate from lady pew-openers.

Leaving Sekhmet to keep guard in this shrine of
Ptah, we worked our way back to the central

229

 

