
Page-0
II IIIIIIIIII' IIIIIIIIII IIIIII' I IIIIEII I. .III -.II I; I;

III I IIII :IIIIIJ IIIII III III IIIIII I I ‘I:.*I.. IIII.

lI"IIIIII “III I ' IIIIIIIIIIIIIIII'I” IIIII IIIWI '
I I I IIIIIIII II I II

"III”
I

I I . I I . I . '.’
I .IIII-II I l‘ II.)IIII ”I II: JIIL: - . ." ’.I 3.' E,
II :I. III IIIII Im- IIIIIIIIII III'I II I III? IIEIII.I In"; I‘I‘ II| I I
,I I.I II;.III.I :. ““1" a IIIIIII

 

 

 

IIIIIIII lI'I :‘ .1". I
, "'H. ”. ."; ; IIIIII IEIIII' III \I'
. ..I I III IIIHII I'iII ’I‘?|f:;l;“ .“ .I If!
II '12: “I I" III," IIIHII II: II” .I KI.” III [III I
. Ij;,'~ I: IIII.3'.":II: alIJIl IIIIII II'II III’I
I I IIIIIIII JIIIIIIIIII II” "I‘ IIIIII
'I'I'IIII II III; II IiII;~' III'” “I

I . ' I IIIII IIIIIII IIIIIII'IIIIIIIIIIII'IIé IIIIIIIIII II}! IIIIIIIIIIIII
. 11:13.1; :~, I'V'I I”
II: -I."III..'.. -. '2'! ”III"

I

I

I ., ”WI“ - II. :IIEI I-IIIIII IIIIIII ”II‘ II'IIIII
I

Ill II

 

 

IIIIII'I
. I‘ r I“) I IIII'I
. I'IvI'w'I'I' :I'II III" :I'l’ '." I: I'EI’II IIIII .. Iu' III}; """ “IIII IIIIIIII'H‘IIIIIIIIIIII

I
III II ”II I
III . III I'
“IMP. IIIII| I III.
II.” Imi' in IIIIIIIIIIngIIII
'... IIIIIII II‘IIIII II'II IIIIIII (”A I II" II

I III I' " I "" VII . IIII III'III
' . I ”'32:.“ I II ”33-313!" ’I'I:;;!l!: .xIIIII'II (“nu 'IIﬁIIII-I IIIII IIV‘I II g
I I III . IIII"I::'IZI;::I'II IIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIaIuIHIi;I‘I‘1IIIIII' III III

III: IIIIII III III| ”ﬁII'ﬁ 31.3} I IIIII‘.
q . .. 'IEIII II II' ”IIII .PH’ I m'
.I II‘ 3.. :I “I: IIIII; :II "' ,IIII'I ”III“ IE1 III IIIIII
. IIIIIIIIIIII- III '.‘,II '.‘iI' ' 'I'I" "II "II V I. i ”I
II I I I'I'I'IIIIIII'I I I I III IIIIII {II'II IIIAIIIIIIIII QI III IIIIIIIIIIU III III III/i1

"IIIIIIIIzII"-'II 'I .'.‘ I‘l'IHII”IIII'II"I(IIII I III ‘I’IIU: I'III III ‘III .1 IIIIII
I
I

 

 

I

 

III‘I

      
   

I
33' ”I I. IIIII'III " II ’ 'u I'IIII. "It” ,
'.'I'III;"::; -I;[II I'IIIIII. I III: :. IIIIII . III",.-:- III IIIIIIIIIIII II‘IIIII I III'I‘IIg" I
II ‘ ;=E-’:- I‘“~' . I”: 'I ‘ .5 IM -
~ , u" 1. 'x- I 'Irm cm.“ I. '_‘_"..I.“I*
‘ I 3’. II IIIII' .II "M'V‘II ' 3.‘ I4 Q'IIILIM‘III
' “IIII IIIIII IIIVIIIuwIII IIIIIIIII 3- III III N" .I.
Page-1
v
p
x

’05! u “a MW

‘1’",

'll’l-I‘

VH'M'U"

’\
.r

c.-
a
- 5
3:-
- g
F) r:
c
‘5
IA‘:

2"

3.1 l I _.
«ﬂ; M. W-

,5.

.
n.‘

I“ ‘
'r’.);‘(,-,~n m. '

'l
u.

3.

.4 Skin? 1""

_. cH'HIF‘M

- ,— '2;
“' ‘3" W
2-“?
‘4'“. 0337“
_\\'¢" .'... I;._.
3%;
21/;

    
  

u‘,

'7" ."1'\.‘- Ill;-
3 - _

9' q

8.4 ’ x L-
: E
Fiﬁ 3
3; a
"h‘ui'ﬁ'u'

W ' J'Hh{
”Am-mm“:

7'31“ 13W ﬂ

0 '1'. HUI!“ ’

éﬁn"
.: .A 2

-A
I.
n
J
‘
L.

- u thMHﬂ,

l
24%|:er -v"

"o a"

I
J
-

{Iv—HIM“

9C5

:3 ."

3:33

’ H

:. QJ€ .5
",0 "3-00)"!

35‘ U ”1‘3th

5

http://www.archive.orgydetails/travelsinuga
.;.w W m;

iULa

‘-

perloOBSQn'ﬁ '

5.

”mm m

g3?

g;

"m

333

.(

ﬁ

aﬁIHM‘w

.3; 33%

w
Page-2
. a

U" I {=-
10 mggnﬂw

3

55%?

*2.

3.;
22
c

90“ “‘0 I' “~\:'

\f‘ﬂ‘ MUM».

§
{2:3,

‘WAM m

6‘

JVMJWIM

«junta-"'04)

6
ct

§

“Imam“?

212%

m: map.

3

\ é

m WWW;

\

e
E
i

‘2
P
5
4'
ﬂ

ﬂ

I r
E
o
§
(-1

i
Page-3

Page-4

Page-5
‘W

n

m ‘

*«wh

I// 4"! :r,///’///
@x/il/(xf

(’ ,'
/’n///mn (7/ (.ngﬁkuv".

1341/99/ch 511' [.Ttt'd‘a’tzli.
Page-6
‘_, TRAVELS

 
 

:F. (:4 _-

;.o- 4 O - IN

UPPER ANI)I£RYER EGYPT:
UNDERTAKEN BY ORDER OF
THE OLD GOVERNMENT OF FRANCE;
BY
C. 5. SOMVINI,
ENGINEER IN THE FRENCH NAVY, AND MEMBER OF SEVERAL
SCIENTIFIC AND LITERARY SOCIETIES.

. .. ’-

 

.H'. .’ wRATED WITH FORTY ENGRAVINGS;

CONSISTING 0F

Portraits, Views, Plans, 3 Geographical Chart, Antiquities,
Plants, Animals, &c.

Drawn on the Spot, under the Author’s Inspection.

\

 

........ Toleramia rcrum

Spernebat cunctaa; insupemm minas.
Venice nudato, ventos pluviusque f'erebam.
Non Inihi solstitium, non grave frigus erat.

Quamvis exiguo poteram requiscere somno,
El quamvis modico membra fox’ere cibo.

Com. Callus, Eplg. I. Senect. Descr.

 

Translated from the French,
BY HENRY HUNTER, D. D.

NEW EDITION.
IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. lII.

 

 

 

LONDON:
- PRINTED FOR JOHN STOCKDALE, PICCADILLY.

1807.
Page-7
b‘. Uosxau, Primer,
Little Queen Street, London.
Page-8
CONTENT&

V O L. III.

 

CHAP. XXXVIII.

of a journey into Alyssinia‘—T/ze manner in
it]: tlze uutlzor supplied t/ze irzsuﬁeieney of tlze
ne/zns where-wit]: government furnislzea7 [um—Dis—
gust wit/z wlzielz travellers are oppressed—Prepa-
ration for zzjourneyinto Upper Egjpt—Faeility 0f
tlze eastern nations in speaking languages—Syrian
interpreter —Boulae— Curlews —-—Butlzs——Emua-
lie—Butter— Lupirz—mﬂneient sziro— Joseplz’s
granaries—Agueduet—Nilometer—Giza/z - I

   
  
  

CHAP. XXXIX.

Departure from ancient Cairo—-Selzeiek Itmann—-
Quarries—ﬂIonasterz'es—Fislzesandlnrds—[if/ﬁr].
winds and water-spouts—ll/ntering of the ground
——I’artieul¢zrs of tne voyage—Houses of tlze vil-
[ages of Upper Egg)t—Cnrtlimnus—Szulzlen gust
of wind from tlze soutlz—Bezzisouﬁ—Aeeident on
ﬁle voyage—JVIountains—uWanner in wine}; 2%:
women of Upper Egg)! carry water - 20

a 2 CHAP.

1635101
Page-9
iv CONTENTS OF VOL. III.

CHAP. XL. I: "

.11[inlet—~Banlacl’s—[Inezeni eig—ﬂlamzez of selling 3 -
fraeturezl lznles—liazn and sgzzalls of wind——
Selzeiek [Made—Alrzeieni my of ﬂntino'e'—-Caia—
corn/2s — .Mellavvoui — ﬂfounlain of Aoonfezla—
Alanfelonf—Con-venz‘ of tlze Pulley—Large lioat
-—Siont——Jael’al-—Grolloes of llze IWonntains—
Birds of Siozn‘ - - — - 37

CHAP. XLI. Q.

Practice of pnjsn 2n E391)! Peozzlzalzizes on _
lg'sieians—Speezes of leprosy

   

                         

”Violent disorder of tlze eyes, wit/2 wine/z tlze azz-
[liar was extruded—Bern’s of tlze lzonses in Egypt
--Cirrunn‘ision-—Raln in Upper Egjpt—Re-iﬁ'
seam/es 2n guest of treasme—Perﬁzly of tlze [SJ-'- @1- k
rzan mier [refer - - - 56“}: ,'

CHAP. XLII.

Preparations for a journey to Sennaar—Conspirag
between llze elnef of tlze caravan of ZVztlna and
w tlre Syrian infer-preler, to assassinate ilze azzllzor,
obliged lo renounce tlze journey into ﬂlpssinia—
Caravans of the Nubians—Blonl’qs—Perroguets
—1\"nln‘ans—Visit to a camp of Bedozans—Pere—
nopr‘érs—Co’rlzls—Repast—Rublrers for ilze feet

h—ﬂprzeols—Il/ ater- melons —— ll ’elons—Dates ——

7!

Hemp, izs in/oxioati/ g qua/If} - 75
CHAI’.
Page-10
CONTENTS OF VOL. III. V

CHAP. XLIII.
Tomieh ~Ahozttigé— Rohhers — Tahta —— Copht—

Sich man, and the method in which the author re-
pressed his arrogance— Catho/ic Cophts—T he per-
secntions which they safer—Engraved stones and
medals—Appies—IWe/ons— Dounz Sail/ii —— Species
of palm-tree of Theha'z's—Diferent species of the

leprosy - - - - 95
CHAP. XLIV.

Sonhajé—Italian inon/cs of the Society de Propa-

gandﬁ Fidc, their inci‘vilit}, their mode of life, their
house—Letter of their superior—Catholic Cophts
-—Echiniinnz —- Panopoh's— Catholic priest—An-
tigue ﬁgure—ﬁlosgne— Plains of Echnzimm—
ﬁfe/ons— Coztrtezans— Chiysonzal , - I I4,

CHAP. XLV.

Italian monhs —— Cophtish cure—Excessive heat——
Bartlis—Donni—Monhs of Ezrschout—Arahian
jii‘iiice—Farschozit—A’nthor’s hoat put in regzzisi-
tion—Jnstice which the Arahian prince ordered to
he done him—Intolerance on the part of a til/[ame-
lnc—Departnre from Sahel—Rafts of fasfe'cas—
Crocodile—[Jam Diospohs-parva—Kafr Essa'iad
——11’afts of earthenware—~Birds—Dogs—Dan-
gerons fassage of the Nile—Accident which heﬁ/Z
the author’s hoat—EZ Bah, another dangerous
place - - - 4 - - I 33

CHAP.
Page-11
vi CONTENTS OF VOL. 111.

CHAP. XLVI.
Tentyris—Derza’em—Emir—Temple of [sis—De-

scrip/ion of several extraordinary ﬁgures—Tro-
c/zi/us of Me ancients—Colours—Egyptian village
511i]! upon the ancient leIII/vle—Eﬁbrfs of bar-[1a-
rism to destiny it—«F’Zgi/mzre in tile [loaf—Fruits
-—Si/1m!i0n of Dendenz - - I 52

CHAP. XLVH.

Almozzb—Bdﬂas—Eart/zen pols—I'VEzter'-77zeion—-
1 Zgzmzz’ ' Ear-[ﬁgzml’e—T/ze lama—[717d and
domestic mzians—CZWe liger—mT/ze lion—Tile MP-
popolmzzus~—T/1e bear—Boat anchor—Robbers—
T/Ie stark—The pelican—[31720312u’lllou11/1} de-
scription Qf Mm; l/is plan 10 make 721')”:er young
again - - - - I71

 

CHAP. XLVIII.

Return [0 Ne’g‘zmdé— give/Zing of Me Nile—[Vater-
5101.117726]‘J—J'Cazts—Remains of [be oil} of Apollo-—
Mire/(’17 ccgfee—Ferti/f/y of t/ze soil in Upper Egypt
-—-Ite (Igrieullm‘e—Grmzi'vorous birds—SwaZ/Ezvs
—-Lazm(/ress -— Ravem —F/ies — Bugs—Insects
3277] more disgmling—[ebnrumon ﬂy—Drone Lee
—I’Vas[) —-— Seorpz'mz— Cmé—Degeneraey of #2:!
people of Egﬁd—U/bﬁlen of T/zelm'z's — 772036
20710 lame embraced lite Cat/20M fail/1, lza've be-
come subject to ﬁnreign 2220n/{’£——Eﬂ‘ects of jealousy

m
Page-12
CONTENTS OF VOL. 111. vii

in women—Purgatives— .S‘enna—I’Enereai (fis-
eases—Ainslie}; - .. - I 90

CHAP. XLIX.

The (ﬂew of missions in Egypt—Ckaraeter of Ike
European monks who reside lkere—Perﬁziy of
tkose of Négziade—Tke anﬂzor’s farewell to Isnzan-
Akon-AIi—Tne gardens of Kons—Citron-lrees—
Grapes —— Melons —— kleer-nzelon—Da tes— Douzn
——T/ze real acacia—Sesame, i/s oi], mode of pre-
paring il—Diseases of Ike skin at £126 ferioa’ of
ilze swelling of Ike .Nile - - 2 14

CHAP. L.

Tr'eaelzery of a Copkl—Ckaraez‘er of Hie men of fliat
nation—Dangerous under/land dealings wkie/i 017-
Zige Ike Author [0 give up Ike voyage of tile Red
Sea— [Wasp—New war in Upper Egypt‘— [Western
sia'e of the ancient oil} of T/zeZJes—Goarnei—
[Wicked men [3y "iv/10m l/in/ "village is iii/minimi—
F ragnienls of anlignity—DisagreenNe wig/it passed
at Gournei—A’ siek nian—P/y'sieian of [lie country
——-Rozile from Gozu'nei lo Negrzmr/e' - Q30

CHAP. LI.

Coplzl of Kons—Sizeep of Yer/zen—S/ieep of Eg ypz‘-—-—-
Goats—Hogs—ﬂfoti‘ves wine/i ka-ve inrineerl Ike
ngwians to exclude lizese animals from [wing a
part of lizeir food—Croeorli/e— Jizard—Frag-
menls of ancient stones and glasses—Slows anti-

doles to poison - - - 248

CHAP,
Page-13
viii CONTENTS OF VOL. 111.

CHAP. LII.

Ifemze’ -- Kofl— Dendenz—Kc ’lze' — Comma/ions—
Sm‘ges of Me IVi/ e——-Pimles—-—..czbe’l—Bé‘iané—
Bin/5 — Girge’ — [Julian man/:5 — ﬁlms/216" Caé~
piers—Tzz/zm—Geneml rebellion in [Me districl—
Veiierezzl diseases—Fe mrs——U aims—Blood} piles

 

—I'/ies—-—I(/mezmzon ﬂies — Scorpzon—Li tom/s—
Bozz/ —— Aau-el Kebir -— I! m ‘vi/J — Ski: 1711.: 71 [ie—
{ween t/ze dram—Repairs cf [be [IotzZ—ﬂboutzge
——Cozn‘lezmls—Dirt-eiz/ers—Aﬂugre/ou/ Q64.

CHAP. LIII.
Turkis/z Aga— Medieine of Me Egrftimzs—ﬂ 22in of

Cairo—éﬂﬂussn/mm friesIs—Bread of [en/i/s—

Liziin/s—Baal—«Dragoniﬂies—sz/s mid wa-
[er-spinners—

            

Egjplizm Sizi/ors—ﬂ/[ozm-
Ui'ipieasmi/ adventure, am] l/ie met/10d [1}
'w/iirr’: I/ie (ml/207' mh‘iazled ilizizser—C/mins of
mountains, and o/iser-vzzlions revealing Mem—

 

Iain:

Qua/'1} of 'w/ziz‘e lime—The peiiairz—lfyramids—
Birds—De '1'" Elf/ill - - 2 8 5

CHAP. LIV.

Glance on Me expediliorl of tin: French into Egypt——
Journey from Cairo 2‘0 Rossella—Ilalezing- ma-
e/zines—Loss of several animals—Almek of tile
consul of Rome/Ia by file Bedoniizs—Birds of {ms—
mg e—I'L 21g e-l/cg— Frogs—in e¢/5—- [V/(Za'l‘ifll--“
Ramadan—Dejmmire from Alemndriiz - 34.9

TRAVELS
Page-14
TRAVELS

IN

UPPER AND LOWER EGYPT.

 

CHAP. XXXVIII.

Project of (I journey into Alyssiniam—T/ze manner in
wlzieiz t/Ie nut/107‘ supplied l/ze imzﬁeienqy of tile
means wherewil/z government furnis/zed lzz'm—Dz's-
gust wit/z wine/2 impellers are oppressed—Prepa-
ration for a journeyinto Upper Egjpl—Fdeiﬁt} of
the eastern nations in rpm/(mg languages—Syrian
interpreter— B ou/ae— Curlew: ——B(ztlzs—Emba-
bé— Bzztter— Lupin—Ancient Cairo— Joseph’s
grandries—Agueduet—Nilometer—Giza/2.

THE project of penetrating into Abyssinia, of vi-
siting those immense and interesting countries in
the interior of that part of the globe which is

least known, to do honour to my country by an
important expedition, which an Englishman, aided
by every means, by every assistance with which
government could supply him, had attempted
successfully; in a word, to compensate by a bold
and glorious enterprise, the contracted concep~

VOL. III. 3 tions,
Page-15
2 TRAVELS IN UPPER

ions, the sordid ideas, with which the ancient
govern nent of France had accompanied expedi-
ti.) i< ot that nature, as well as to add something
to we. means more contracted still which it em-
ployed for the execution of them ; this project, I
say, never quitted my imagination, and I at—
tempted every method which could ensure me a
favourable issue. Having at my disposal but a
very moderate sum, and what would have been
scarcely sufficient to accomplish a journey
through some of the cantons of Europe, I had
adopted the same plan which was my resource in
the other expeditions intrusted to me, and which
Iwould not abandon T this was to add something
from my private property to what was allowed to
me by parsimony, at that time the usual compa-
nion of useful enterprises, whilst excess of libe—
rality and profusion spread a fatal lustre over the
fantasies of luxury, or the attempts of a clclusive
glory, and frcquentlyof immorality.

I can take all those to witness, who like myself
were sent abroad: not one of them but has had
cause of complaint. and has suffered from that
spirit of avarice which directed their mission;
there is not one who has not become the victim
Of his zeal; there is not one of them who did
not receive promises of encouragement before his

departure, and who was not left unsupported in
the
Page-16
AND LOWER EGYPT. 3

the course of his travels; in a word, there is not
one among them who, after having been the
dupe of deceitful promises, after having endured
the anxieties of penury, the horrors 0t dereliction
in the midst of painful and glorious enterprises,
who did not experience on his return the humili-
ation of soliciting in vain the slightest indemniﬁ-
cation, frequently even the reimbursement of
what he had advanced, and of presenting himself
ineffectually before an insolent clerk of ofﬁce,
who treated him with haughtiness and disdain.“

And this kind of contempt, which was affected
with respect to great and generous undertakings,
ranked amongthe vices with which the atmosphere
of the court was poisoned. Self-love, which trans-
forms the statesman into the wretched slave of his
passions; intrigue, which, sometimes supported by
ambitious opulence, sometimes conducted with
grace by the most seducing as well as the most.
unbridled depravation of manners, had rendered it
aresidence inaccessible to the man whose soul, ele-
vated and ennobled with the love of his country,
disdained to abase himself to those shameful re»
sources ofcorruption, and totarnish the dignity of
his sentiments and the lustre of commendable ac-
tions by vile cxpedients, although they were the
most direct means of procuring him justice. Ac-
cordingly, that man was sure to be discouraged

B 2 who
Page-17
4, TRAVELS IN UPPER

who onlypossessed the merit of having been use-
ful. He was made to drink deep of the bitter cup
of neglect, and it was apparent that endeavours
were made to excite regret in him, and to give
him cause to repent of the labours he had en-
dured. He who had claims upon the national
gratitude, was disregarded by a government,
which had long before renounced the privilege of
being its interpreter; and just rewards were of
such diﬂicult attainment, their sordid parsimony
contrasted in a manner so mortifying with that
profusion with which favour remunerated the co-
hort of its adorers, that with the smallest degree
of honest pride a man chose rather to renounce his
claim, than to make it good by solicitations too
frequently ineffectual, and always degrading.

This was the course which I constantly pur—
sued. Proud of having, in the prosecution of my
labours, no other motive to excite me butthe love
of my country, I have with perfect disinterested-
ness pursued a career in which I might probably
have had some success, had I been better seconded,
had they understood how to turn my dispositions
to a good account, and to make a more advan-
tageous use of a zeal which obstacles inﬂamed
instead of damping. Never have I been seen
harassing a man in power with my importunities,
or basely paying my court to subalterns; and if a

just
Page-18
AND LOWER EGYPT. 5

just indemniﬁcation did not follow the simple
exposition of my rights, I retired, and Spoke no
more on the subject. Better satisﬁed with a ge-

nerous devotedness to the public service, than
with a recompense which would have detracted
from its merit, I congratulated myself on this,
that, if I had not rendered myself uSeful, Ihad at
least endeavoured to do so, and that no view
whatever of personal interest had tarnished my
efforts. My conscience permitted me to taste, at
the expense of my purse, a pure joy, a content-
ment, which the self-interested mind can never
enjoy. But this character of pride and indepen-
dence at which fortune is intimidated, procured
for me at least some consequence, and I have
often received praises in exchange for my money.

I endeavoured then, at my own private expense,
to open a passage to myself for visiting Abyssinia.
That of the Red Sea appeared to me the least difﬁ-
cult, by going in the ﬁrst place to Dsjm’a’a, and from
thence to Souaguem, and to ﬂrl’iko. I requested

”K,” dym—A

a French merchant to conduct me into the territo-

,‘n
“4—— ‘....

 

 

-v/

ries of the Co phts, who carry on the commerce of

N.( —‘_ '—

 

 

 

India by way 9: Suez, and who were the owners
of those mi~erable vessels,b y which men and mer—
chandise are transported, through many delays and
dangers, across those rocks and sands with which
the coasts of Arabia are surrounded, and of which

B 3 ships
Page-19
6 TRAVELS rN UPPER

ships of this kind never lose sight. But it was
necessary to wait a long time {or a passage to
Dsjea’r/a. I should have been, most probably, deo
taiued there still longer, beforel could have found
an opportunity of reaching the shores of Ethiopia.
These reﬂections determined me to take the route
of Upper Egypt, though it was not perfectly
free. A party of Mamelucs, attached to lsmaél
Bey, whom Mourat had just put to ﬂight, had
retired thither, and deranged the organization,
very faulty without doubt, but sometimes a pro-
tection of the government of these countries.
Besides, the disturbances, although in themselves
very triﬂing, had there opened a door for the
pillages of the Arabs and the piracies of the
fez/dim; and the dangers, always indeed existing
even in the moments of tranquillity, became in—
evitable, when the agitation, rarely interrupted,
tormentedthem with concussion upon concussion.

But these circumstances did not alter my re-
solution; and if the desire of Visiting a country
unknown to me had not determined me to sur—
mount diﬁiculties, the uneasiness I experienced
at Cairo, would have been sufﬁcient to decide my
conduct. I was eager to quit a city, where the
traveller was shut up in a narrow enclosure, the
limits ot which he could not transgress without
exposing himself, and without the danger of ex~

posing
Page-20
AND LOVKER EGYPT. 7

,"—._.

posing other men, and where the quality of Euro-
pean was a stamp of infamy, and a title which

ensured insult and vexation.

Iobtained from Monmt Bey orders addressed
to all the commanders of Upper Egypt, that they
should give me assistance and protection. To
these he added a letter to Isma'z'n Abou All), a very
powerful prince of the Arabs, the same man by
whose assistance Mourat was restored to the si-
tuation of Sr/zez'rl’ e] Bra/led; he wrote to his friend,
that having heard his health was disordered, he
had sent him a skilful physician, with whom he
would be pleased, and whom he recommended as
a person dear to himself. I was thus transformed
into a physician, nay, a physician to princes;
and to this title was I indebted for my escape from
the dangers which awaited me in Upper Egypt.

Letters were also procured for me from the su-
perior of the missionaries for the propagation of
the faith, as they are called, and who have four
houses for the reception of monks in Upper
Egypt. It will be seen what effect this reCoin-
mendation produced upon these monks, equally
contemptible with those of the desert ot~ Nitria.

A French physician arrived from Aleppo, at

Cairo, with the intention of going into India by
B 4 the
Page-21
8 TRAVELS 1N UPPER

the Red Sea, was detained by I know not what
obstacles, in the last of these two cities. He
had brought with him from Aleppoa Maronite
Christian, who spoke seven languages with the
utmost case, though without understanding the
principles of them. This Frenchman, who ap-
peared to have given up his intended journey,
ceded the Syrian to me, whose ﬁckle disposition
had inspired him with a desire to follow me. I
imagined that this acquisition would be of great
service to me, but I found in him a villain equally
brutal and dangerous.

It is truly wonderful with what Facility the east-
ern nations, the Turks and Arabians excepted,
whose superstitious pride will not allow them to
learn any other language but that of the Alcoran,
acquire the power of Speaking the different idioms,
even those of the nations of Europe. I, who never
possessed great aptness in the study of language,
have often envied this natural talent of the Orien-
talists, and the ease with which they acquire the
use of it in a very short space 0t time. It was not
uncommon to meet among them sevcral who had
the same knowledge in this respect as the Syrian,
whom l had just made my interpreter, and who
spoke French extremely well, as he did, although
he learnt it merely by frequenting the company of
the small number of our merchants at Aleppo.

I had
Page-22
AND LOWER EGYPT. 9

I had made a bargain with the reis (master) of
a little kmzjzz, to convey me into Upper Egypt.
The boat was to be entirely at my disposal; no
other person had the power of entering it, and I
was at liberty to proceed or to stop, at my own
discretion. On these conditions I agreed to pay
the reis and his boat’s company, at the rate of a
pataca and three quarters, that is, about seven shil-
lings and Sixpence a day..

That of our departure was ﬁxed upon. But on
arriving at Boulac, we found it impossible to at-
tempt sailing up the Nile. The wind blew with
so much violence from the south, that no effort
could have steered a boat against its impetuosity.
Too well pleased with having quitted my gloomy
and disquieting situation at Cairo, I was not
tempted to return thither to wait for more favour-
able weather, and I preferred passing the day at
Boulac. The better to disguise my European
appearance, I had thrown aside the sash; at la
Druese, and had adorned my head with a red tur-
ban, by means of which, with the other parts of
my dress, I passed for a Turk, and I was at liberty
to go where I pleased without exciting any obser-
vation. This precaution had been suggested to
me by Mourat Bey himself: “ D‘i_sgui\s_e,thyself
“ eatfeﬂillyg;said he to me before myﬁclepartnre;

W». ——-———-a""\

 

“ equip thyself in, such a manner that theﬁmgst

 

“ clcaf-
Page-23
IO TRAVELS IN UPPER

“ clearvsightcd may not be able to recognise in
“ thee a Nazaremz. Thou maycst be such bct'ore
“ my Kizzsc/zeﬁ, before all those who possess autho-
“ rity, and are in duty bound to protect thee: but
“ to those (270g: offe/ﬁz/zs appear to be a Mussul-
“ man; make thyselfpass, upon OCCEISIOI), for one
“ of my ofﬁcers; this is the sole means of escap-
“ ing their wickedness and barbarity.”

I remained the whole day with my pipe in my
hand walking along the banks ofthe Nile. A great
stirring there attracted attention. A multitude of
men, occupied in removing bales of merchandise,
exhibited the activity of commercial ports. A
great number of boats arranged in rows, sunk by
degrees in the water as they received their lad-
ing; whilst others whose cargo was unloaded rose
above the rest. All agitated by the waves which
an impetuous wind put in motion, balanced their
long sail~yards, and the moving and diversiﬁed
picture which the port of Boulac presented to my
view, made those moments pass rapidly away which
I was under the necessity of passing there.

Notwithstanding the tumult which reigned upon
the banks of the river, a ﬂight of wild ducks, and
which were, however, not entirely of that descrip-
tion, swum peaceably on a part of the surface of

the water, which remained undisturbed by the
winds.
Page-24
AND LOWER EGYPT. II

winds. I saw also two curlews of a deep green
plumage, with reﬂexes ofa copper colour. I pre.
sume this is the species of which Buft‘on has taken
notice, under the denomination of the green cur-
lew, or curlew of Italy*. These birds, which have
on the whole a pretty strong resemblance to the
curlew of tire woods of Guiana «i3 are passage birds
in Egypt, where they follow the course of the Nile
up to the cataract. The Arabs call them scﬁe’leclz.

At night I visited the baths, which at Boulae are
very ﬁne. I had at Cairo accustomed myself to the
use of those kind of baths, and I was fond of fre-
quenting them. There was one there near the
quarter where the French resided, and [seldom
allowed many days to pass without going thither.
It is well known that these baths of the East, de-
scribed by all travellers, and which I have seen
badly imitated at Paris, are immense buildings,
where people bathe without water, and where warm
andhumid vapours moisten the b0dy,and, mingling
with the sweat which they excite, descend in large
drops over all the limbs. You extend yourself
upon marble, heated, and slippery with humidit *;
a servant whose hand is enclosed in a little square

* Hist. Nat. des Ols. & pl. enlum. No. r19.

1- Buffon, Hist. Nat. des Ois. & pl. enlum. No. 820. Ar-
guata 'viria'z': Jilvafz'm. Lin. Flamand de bois. Barrére, Franc.
Equinox. page 127, et Ornitholog. page 74.

bad

b
Page-25
12 TRAVELS IN UPPER

bag of coarse camlct, rubs you pretty roughly; he
loosens and rolls over the skin, the little masses im-
pregnated with sweat. He gives you notice, by
slight strokes with the palm of his hand, to turn
on one side,~on the other, on the back, on the belly.
He presses, he seems to knead softly all the parts
ofthe body, he gives a brisk movement to the mem-
bers one after the other, and makes-all the joints,
and even the muscles of the breast, to crack. After
he has cleaned you well, and suppled allyour limbs,
the same man conducts you towards a bason in
which wart water ﬂows: after having covered you
with a thick layer of soap, he throws the water over
you in large quantities, which, in falling along the
body, carries oche froth of the soap. Ofall the
processes ofthese baths, this was the one which in-
commoded me the most. The quantity of water
thrown over my person deprived me of breath al-
most even to suffocation ; I was almost always re-
duced to cry for mercy from my pitiless water-
pourer. You are afterwards re-conducted into the
ﬁrst room where you had left your clothes, and
there laid down and wrapt up in dry linen, which
is changed as it imbibes the humidity of the body;
young boys gently press all the parts of it, in order
to dry them perfectly and by degrees. They like-
wise draw a piece of pumice-stone over the soles of
the feet. During these operations, which it is im-
possible to perform with greater delicacy, you en-

JOY
Page-26
AND LO\VER EGYPT. I3

joy :1 delicious repose, and cannot forbear yielding
to a kind of voluptuous languor.

The little bag or rubber of the eastern nations
has succeeded to the curry-comb of the ancients,
and is far preferable to it. Being formed of stuff,
it is far more soft, and draws from the pores all
those humours which obstruct them, much better
than the instrument of metal with which it was

customary to scrape the skin among the Romans.
But although the baths in Turkey, and particularly
those of Cairo, are extremely handsome buildings,
they are far inferior in grandeur and magniﬁcence
to those which the Romans constructed under their
emperors. The ruins ofthem which remain, strike
us with wonder. Vitruvius has given the descrip-
tion of these superb buildings. They were of so
prodigious an extent, that Ammianus lVIarcellinus
compared them to provinces *. All the most bril-
liant productions of luxury, all the voluptuousness
which was thegffspring ofeffeminacy, were assem-

bled there. You could there enjoy at once all
those pleasing sensations which the air and the
water produce; moveable bathing-machines were
suspended, and to the pleasure of bathing was
added that of being gently swur g in the air.

More simple, and perhaps more agrec‘ble, the
baths of Turkey and of Egypt have many attrac-
"‘ Pom}: provinciarum imtar 9210‘»: allz'ur ediﬁcz'z'ﬂrma'.

tions
Page-27
14 TRAVELS IN UPPER

tions for all the inhabitants of the East. They had
very great allurements in my eyes also, and indeed

 

“1.93m.wasxnothiwngﬁat Qairol liked but them. The
most perfect tranquillity, the most rigid decency,
reigned through the whole enclosure. Although
several persons were assembled there, not a word
was Spoken in the room, around which the beds
{or repose were arranged, and where you take off

ncl put on your clothes. Every one in calmness,
in silence, and in voluptuous enjoyment, ex-
perienced those sweet and truly nudeﬁuable sen-

sations which delicate pressures could produce.

The women have their appointed days and hours
for visiting the baths. At that period no man dare
approach them. Other women appointed to wait
on the bathers, cause them to pass successively
through all the ceremonies observed in those kind
of places, but they are performed with more care
and delicacy than among the men. Rose-water is
not Spared, and the smoke of perfumes mingles it-
self with humid vapours. As the women have not,
like the men, renounced one of the most beautiful
ornaments of nature, the care of their head-dress is
one of those most attended. to in the toilet of the
baths. To cleanse their hair, they make use ofa
kind ofclay which is brought express from Turkey,
and which they bedew with sweet-scented waters.
But it is not solely a motive of health, or the desire.

ofcleanliness, which tempts them to visit the baths:
they
Page-28
AND LOWER EGYPT. 15

they form there parties of pleasure. Peaceful calm
ceases to reign amongst them; young and beautiful
captives there abandon themselves to mirth, and to
those amiable follies which, if wepm/ust“ believe a

certain critic, are not‘always perfectly innocent.

Opposite to Boulac, on the western shore of the
Nile, is the little village of Embabe’, renowned for
the excellent quality of the butter made there.
This is the only place in Egypt where butter may
be eaten fresh; in every other part it is good for
nothing.

The fertile plains which surround 13171552176” on
the western side, enrich it with everal kinds of
culture. They produce, in particular, a kind, or
rather a variety, of lupins‘yt, of which there is a great
consumption in Egypt. They boil the peas with
salt and water, and eat them after having taken off
the hard and thick skin with which they are co-
vered. They are sold ready dressed in the streets
and in the markets. rl‘he village of Embaﬁe’ sup-
plies Lower Egypt with them, where they are known
under the name of emluzlmz, after the place from
which they come. However, the general name of
these lupins is lermess. They will neither serve for
soup, nor for any other sort of ragout, they are so

* LII/1mm termis; cabciéur alternir, appendiculatir, labia unoguc
z'rztrgro, acuto. Forskal, Flora Egypt.-Arab. page 131. '

° extremely
Page-29
16 TRAVELS IN UPPER

extremely hard; but when boiled with salt, they
are very much to the taste ofthe Egyptians. You
hardly see any one in the streets but people clean-
ing [627/1835. The Christians of the East, little am-
bitious of imitating their tyrants in an abstinence
from strong liquors, eat lupins, to excite in them
a desire to drink brandy, which they often do to
excess. They make also a ﬂour from it, which
they use in the same manner as that offarinaceous
plants. It is, in particular, very good for cleaning
the hands and softening the skin. The stalks of
the lupin reduced to Cinders, serve in preference to
other coals in the preparation of gunpowder: thus
this plant combines in its parts several kinds of
utility.

The south wind having subsided, we departed
from Boulac the gist of Niarch 1778, at eight
o’clock in the morning. Our voyage was not of
long duration. The 7625 having pretended that
some repairs were necessary to the boat, we stopt at
Old Cairo, the Il/f/zsr el Ari/z of the Arabs, about half
a league from Boulac. This city, which marks the
situation of the Babylon of Egypt, is the port of
those boats which descend from Said, as Boulac is
that of the Delta. In the middle of the Maho-
metan mosques, the Jews have a synagogue, and
the Catholics a convent and a church; but the
Cophts, as being on their own territories, have re-

served
Page-30
AND LOWER EGYPT. I?

served to themselves that which passes in the eyes
of the religious for the most precious spot; this is a
grotto or low chapel, in which, as a pious tradi-
tion informs us, the Virgin lived some time with
the infant Jesus when they were obliged to ﬂee
into Egypt. Such traditions as these are never
without their use to the monks. When the La—
tins wish to visit this chapel, they pay for their ad-
mission to the Cophts; and if devotion carries
them so far as to celebrate mass there, the Cophtish
monks are paid for this complaisanee by those of
the Catholic persuasion ; and these take care in
their turn to receive a recompense from those who
employ them.

You see at ancient Cairo the granaries of Jo-
seph, if the name of granaries can with propriety
be given to a vast space of ground surrounded
with walls twenty feet in height, and divided into
a sort of courts which have no roof, or any other
covering whatever, in which are deposited the
grains brought out of Upper Egypt for the reve—
nue, where they are the food of a multitude of
birds, and the receptacle of their ordure. The
walls of this enclosure are of a bad construction,
they have nothing in their appearance which an-

nounces an ancient buildinrr and the love of the

c:
marvellous alone could have attributed its eleva~
tion to the Patriarch Joseph.

VOL. III. 0 Another
Page-31
18 TRAVELS IN UPPER

Another work of the Arabs, which is, nowever,
remarkable for its beautiful construction and its
boldness, indeed the only one worth seeing in the
ancient city of Cairo, is the aqueduct which con-
veys the water oﬂthe Nile into the castle. It is
supported by three hundred and ﬁfty arcades nar-
row and very high. The water is conveyed thi-
ther by a chain-pump with four wheels, which is
moved by oxen,

In front of ancient Cairo, the Nile leaves in the
middle of its bed an island about ﬁve hundred
paces broad, on which is built the mel’l’z'zzs, that is
to say, measure. It is there, in fact, that on the
graduations of a pillar the increase of the water is
measured, and after these observations, public
criers go about the streets of Cairo proclaiming
the successive heights of the water, the promise
of fertility and abundance. It is thought that
this nilometer was built by the Arabs. The
island is called Rozm’dtz, or gardens, because, in
fact, it is laid out in gardens, and inhabited only
by gardeners.

On the opposite side of the isle Rozza’a’a, the
town of Giza}; extends itself on the western shore
of the Nile. The numerous date~trees which sur-
round it, among which the lofty turrets of its

mosques mingle themselves, the river, whose
waves
Page-32
AND LOXVER EGYPT. 19

waves roll by the very foot of the houses, give it
from afar a pleasing appearance. The French
merchants at Cairo had a country-house there, on
the very brink of the Nile, and to this they fre-
quently resorted for the purpose of breathing a
pure air, instead of those infectious exhalations
among which they habitually lived, and to enjoy
a respite from that turbulent existence which dis-
turbed their minds in the city. Giza]: brings
back the recollection of mighty objects. Mem-
phis was in its vicinity, and it is still the nearest
place to the most valuable monuments which ano
cient Egypt has left of her glory and her power.
The pyramids are at the distance of about two or
three leagues from it, and they bear indiscrimi-
nately the name of the Pyramids of Mem‘pizis, or flu:

Prrzzmid: of Gizalx.

CZ
Page-33
9.0 TRAVELS IN UPPER,

CH AP. XXXIX.

Defer/are from ancient Cairo—Schick [Imam—m
Quarries—$107103!e7'ies—-Fis/Ies and Birds-—
IV/zir/wimz’s and water—spou/s—[ﬁziering of tile
grozuzdwPartial/(m of tire voyage—[James of 156
villages of Upper Egypt——Cart/lamas—Szzdden
gust (f windfrom lize soutﬁ—Beniwucf—Awidmt
on Me vying 5—310untainswjllmmer in w/zic/z Z726
women of Upper E3 )1)! carry water.

IT was not without considerable trouble that I
collected my rei: and his sailors, who were busy
conversing with their acquaintances, and never
thinking about the repairs necessary to the boat.
I had still more difﬁculty to make them resolve on
departing. We quitted ancient Cairo on the even.
ing ofthe same day that we arrived there. A fresh
breeze from the north had succeeded to the scorch.
ing and contrary wind of the south. Two immense
sails disposed in [1(27‘8u—€(Z7'5>X< drove on our light
l’mzja with great rapidity; and her prow, whitened
by the foam ofthe waves, opened for itself an easy
passage, notwithstanding the resistance ofthe cur—

* This is the name given to the arrangement oftwo triangular
sails, when the one is stretched to the starboard side, and the

other to the larboard. r
rent,
Page-34
AND LOWER EGYPT. 2!

rent. We stopped towards night, about eight
leagues distance from ancient Cairo, opposite to
Sclzeick I/mmm, a little village of which the houses
or huts are ofrnud. Its appearance is not the less
pleasing. Groves of date-trees surround it; their
verdant summits, which bear long and shooting
stalks, whilst others are bent downwards by the
winds, seem to cross each other in order to form a
shade to the roofs of the houses, enliven the gray
and obscure tints of the village, render it beauti-
fully picturesque, and form a most interesting
landscape. Several white herons came to pass the
night upon these date-trees, and composed there
a charming bouquet of a beautiful green and a
dazzling white.

From ancient Cairo the eastern shore of the Nile
is bordered by that chain of mountains which begin
at Cairo itself. You see in them great cavities
formed by the extraction of the stones which have
been quarried there. The opposite side of that
mountain which overlooks the Nile, has been dug
up over almost all its surface. It is probable, that
from thence, in ancient times, those stones were
extracted which they employed in the construction
of the city of Memphis, and of the pyramids. The
masses of which these last monuments have been
built, are absolutely of the same grain withthe

calcareous rock of the mountain : and this circum-
c 3 stance
Page-35
22 TRAVELS IN UPPER

stance would have been sufﬁcient to overthrow
the opinion of some of the modems, who imagined
that these pyramids were only composed of facti-
tious stones, though besides the most ancient ofthe
historians who have written on Egypt, Herodotus,
had not positively said, that upon the mountains
of Arabia (that chain which is on the side of the
Red Sea) may be seen the quarries from whence
were hewn the pyramids of Mem-phis‘3“.

At a full quarter of a league before your arrival
at Sclzeick Ill/147m, on the eastern shore of the river,
is Team, which has retained something of the an-
cient name Troja, which it formerly bore. On
each side, and from distance to distance, you see
those useless buildings, which, under the name of
monasteries, enclose societies of men more useless
still. They were peopled by Cophtish monks.

Opposite to Snleic/E 1722mm, a village called Ilia—
:mm (a press) appears on the same side with Toma;
but retreating somewhat farther into the land.
Above the ﬁrst mentioned place there is a pretty
large canal, the direction of which to the west
ward does not extend very far.

I bought some little Iremzz's, ﬁshes which I have
made mention of at the conclusion of the preced—

* Book II. sect. 8. Lareher’s translation, vol. ii. p. 7.

o

9
mg
Page-36
am; LOWER EGYPT. 23

ing volume. A ﬁsherman caught them with a
sweep-net, which he threw from above the brink of
the river. He did not catch any others; but ifthe
ﬁshy brood was rare in the waters of :S‘c/zeir/c Ilmzzmz,
numerous ﬂocks of birds animated its vicinity.
The lively and active lzzmzziress rambled through
the ﬁelds, waving its long tail ; the ignoble kite,
the same bird which at Cairo is a denizen of the
place, interrupted with his shrill and plaintive cry
the amorous cooings of the turtle-doves, perched
upon the date-trees, while the swallows, on pointed
wings, cleaved the air in their rapid ﬂight.

On the 22d, towards mid-day, we continued to
proceed up the Nile. I very soon discovered, at a
little distance inland, the pyramids of Saltkam,
and likewise the town of that name, celebrated for
the mummies of men and of animals, which are
preserved in its vast catacombs. We passed ops
posite to Sc/Ez'm, a village situated at some distance
from the western shore. A little higher up we saw,
on the other side, a place called Berdrisgé, and we
stopped about six o’clock in the evening before
Kafr Ja'iat, a village of earthen huts, like those
which I have just mentioned, and the residence of
a Kiaschef. The western shore of the Nile is in
this place lofty and steep, and the village built on
it may be perceived at a distance.

C 4. We
Page-37
24. IRA'VELS IN UPPER

We had proceeded nearly seven leagues in the
course of this day; the north wind continued to be
favourable to us; but it blew sometimes violent
squalls, and in whirlwinds which, but for the
precautions I was careful should be observed, and
which would have given no uneasiness to the
Egyptian mariners, might have rendered it danger-
ous. These whirlwinds are very frequent upon the
Nile; they communicate their motion to that part
of the river on which they bear, and cause it to
boil up. I had the pleasure of seeing, in the plain
of Sakkara, columns of sand, raised by the wind
almost to the clouds, and preserving in their im-
mense height the perpendicularity of a perfect
cylinder,

That chain of mountains which, at the back of
Toura, vas close to the banks of the Nile, retires
here, and leaves a vast space for cultivation.
There are no longer here the level plains of the
Delta, and the other cultivated parts of Lower
Egypt, which by easy waterings are moistened suf-
ﬁciently to produce fertility. The waters of the
river ﬂowed in their natural bed, between two
steep shores. In order to water their lands, the
inhabitants are obliged to employ machines for
drawing up the water. These are a kind of swipe—
le-vers, placed upon a horizontal cross-bar, and to
which leathern buckets are fastened. A man, half

covered
Page-38
AND LOWER EGYPT. 25

covered with rags, and animating himself with sing-
ing mournful and rustic songs, passes whole days
in moving one of these levers, and in pouring the
water into troughs or furrows, which convey it to
the plantations. Very often, four or ﬁve of these
machines are necessary, among which there are
some double, that is, the same cross-bar supports
two levers, in order to raise the water to the level
of the ground to be watered. The eastern shore
is elevated and perpendicular; the western has an
imperceptible declivity; but it requires still greater
labours, on account of the necessary length ofthe
water-conduits, in order to diffuse the water to ad-
vantage.

The clumsiness of these hydraulic inventions,
the nakedness of the misery, which renders hideous
those unindustrious and half-savage creatures who
employ them; habitations, the walls of which,
hardly raised above the ground, are built with no
other materials than mud, are objects which ine
spire disgust and melancholy, when on looking
back in imagination to former times, we compare
the ancient situation of the very same country with
that which disgraces it in the present day.

Two numerous ﬂights ofwild ducks made their
appearance in the course of this day; and on the
shore, white herons, goélands, and wild geese,

VVCI'C
Page-39
26 TRAVELS IN UPPER

were narrowly watching the ﬁsh on their pass-a

age.

\Vith people like the Egyptians I could not
expect to accomplish a voyage exempt from dispu-
tation. Greedy and dishonest, whatever beneﬁt
you confer on them, they are never contented, and
the more that is given them, the more they think
they have a title to exact. I had with me an ample
provision of coffee, and some excellent tobacco of
Laiic/zea; and from the moment of my departure,
I had shared it with my boat’s crew ; but these in-
satiable rascals insisted that I did not give them
enough; and as if my liberality had been a debt
due to them, they demanded that I should deliver
up to their discretion the coffee and the tobacco.
However, to let them see that their claims, uttered
in the most insolent tone of voice, did not produce
any impression on me, and how much they de-
ceived themselves in believing they could intimi-
date me, I discontinued the donation of those
little douceurs, which I had the complaisanee till
then to bestow. They broke forth into menaces
and murmurs, which were of pretty long dura-
tion, but which they gave up, when they per-
ceived that they derived no advantage whatever

from them.

At eight in the morning of the 27th, we de-
parted
Page-40
AND LOWER EGYPT. 27

parted from Kafr Izz'izzt with a light north wind,
which, about mid-day, arose into very violent
squalls. After a navigation of about the space of
ﬁve leagues, we stopped at R1724, a village on the
western shore, and almost opposite to which is At-
ﬁelz, situated at the foot of the mountain of the
east, upon a narrow canal, formed by a pretty con~
siderable island. Boats do not pass by this canal,
unless they are to land at Atﬁe/z itself. This was

formerly a city consecrated to Venus, under the
name of Ap/zroditopoiis.

I saw a very remarkable pyramid in-Iand, at four
or ﬁve leagues distance from Rilza. The course of
the river is divided from Kafr Ia'z'at by a chain of
small islands, among which there are some pretty
extensive, and which advance sometimes toward
the one shore, and sometimes toward the other.

A multitude of birds, of diﬁ‘erent kinds, are to
be found in the environs of 132714. There are he-
rons, armed plovers, others of a sort which I have
described in the Delta, at ﬁfe/Mllet-Alzou-Ali, in

the preceding volume, a great many lapwings
looking for worms on the brink ofthe river, &c.

The squall of wind fell in the evening; a total
calm in the atmosphere succeeded it, and conti-
nued till the morning of the following day, the

24th.
Page-41
28 TRAVELS IN UPPER

24th. Not the slightest breeze swelled our sails to
forward our voyage. The sailors drew the kmy’a
along by a rope ; a light wind from the north-east
arose in the morning, but it was not of long dura-
tion, and we stopped at Zozr/e, a considerable vil-
]age on the Western shore, at the distance of about
two leagues from Rilm. In the afternoon the wind
came round to the west, and afterwards to the
south-west; ofconsequence it came from the same
point towards which we were directing our course.
I made them to take the rope again, and we arrived
by slow degrees at Zavozri e] [Plans/cub ( the water-
ing-place of the cross), a little town built on the
western shore of the Nile, opposite to Ge’ziret
Barml‘e’ (blest island), a little isle, on which you
see a village, and lands in a state of cultivati0n*‘.
We had only proceeded one league beyond Zozrle.
These denominations of 57055 of bmedéczion, col—
lected on the same spot, are very remarkable in a
country where crosses and their benedictions are
looked on with horror.

At night, one of my companions caught with a
ﬁshing-line a small ccl of the Nile; the upper part
of its body was ofa lightish green, without doubt

because it was young.

* Mr. Bruce has very improperly reproached Norden with
having written that Cc'zz'ret Bari-aka" meant the watering of the
cross. It is Zavom' eZ Jlfamloué to which Norden has given that
meaning. (See the ”Zr/5 Qf tire/e two travellrrr.) I

t:
Page-42
AND LOXVER EGYPT. 29

It was equally impossible, on the 24th, to make
use of sails, and we were obliged to continue the
tedious and fatiguing method of working the boat
with a rope. I walked along the side of the Nile,
and killed several wild pigeons, whose hard and
dry ﬂesh had nothing in it to gratify the appetite.
I saw also several armed plovers, and of those
which have been mentioned formerly.

Our sailors rested themselves, at the end of a
league, at Komrigé, a town to the westward of the
river. There are here several mosques, the indica-
tion of an extensive population. We took our
departure again, in the afternoon, with the wind
still against us, and we moored for the night at
Srlzment 61 Arab, a village built on the same side
with Komrige’. The houses in this place, like all
those of Upper Egypt, are of a square form, and
pigeon-houses are raised over their roofs, which
have, from a distance, the appearance of orna-
ments of architecture: these give to the villages a
pleasing look before you reach them, but, on your
arrival, you perceive only mud walls, and the
livery of wretchedness.

During this complete day we had not advanced
quite so much as three leagues. The whole length
of this space of the eastern shore ofthe river is one
steril and uninhabited plain of sand. That of

thc
Page-43
30 TRAVELS 1N owns

the western, on the contrary, presented to the view
ﬁelds adorned with cultivation and fertility. I ob-
served there several large tracks of ground planted
with the car/12mm: 1*, which the Arabs call asfour.
Its seeds, which are described sometimes by Euro-
peans under the name of przrrols’ seeds, because they
are the favourite food of birds of that species, are
known in Egypt by the name of cartom, from
whence we have derived that of cart/152mm. Under
a shell which is hard, thick, and of a glittering
white, these seeds possessing nearly the form of a
quince, contain an oily almond of a sharp and
bitter ﬂavour. The Egyptians extract an oil from
this ﬁt for burning. With the husks they make a

paste, of the colour of chocolate, but without
having the taste of it.

But the-most useful part of the plant, and which
is indeed an indisPensable requisite in the dying of
cloths, is the ﬂower. Its colour is a beautiful saf-
fron red, but it has a very strong and disagreeable
smell. When dried it is transported into Europe.
It is called, in the commerce of the Levant, by the

name of saﬁ'cznzmz.

The culture of the earthamus is one of the most
productive carried on in Egypt; it there occupies
entire plains, and the safranum is exported in large

7‘ Cartbamm tizzctorius. Lin.
quantities,
Page-44
AND LOWER EGYPT. 3 r

quantities, and is bought up by European traders.
Under a genial and pure sky, the ﬂowers acquire,
in a short time, the brilliancy of that beautiful co-
lour which distinguishes them, and norains descend
to tarnish their lustre. In our northern countries,
on the contrary, the rains would be always an in-
convenience opposing the culture ofthe carthamus;
not because it would not thrive with us, for, during
several years past, I have cultivated this plant in a.
spot in one of our coldest departments, that of
NIeurtha, but without reaping any advantage, at
least from the crop ofﬂowers. In truth the slightest
shower of rain is sufﬁcient to soil or break them
down, and to destroy the crop. The climate of
Egypt agrees with it perfectly, and it is an import-
ant branch of commerce for the new colony.

‘Ve commenced our route again on'the 26th;
and were still reduced to the necessity of hauling
our boat along, the wind continuing to blow from
the south. It employed us the whole morning to
reach Bousclz, a town about a quarter of a league
upon the western shore, in which was held, at the

very time of our passing by it, a considerable mar-
ket for cattle and provisions.

We encountered, at Bousclz, one of those violent
gusts of wind from the south, so celebrated in those
countries, and at the same time so dangerous.

Wretchcd
Page-45
32 TRAVELS IN UPPER

W'retehed is the situation of those who ﬁnd them-
selves entangled in the vast sandy deserts with
which Egypt is bordered ; intrepidity is then of no
avail whatever, and the, most valiant armies maybe
there overwhelmed with clouds of sand which the
wind drives impetuously along, may be stiﬂed to
death, and perish in despair. The atmosphere was
on ﬁre, and at the same time darkened by whirl-
winds of dust. The thermometer of Réaumur
rose to twenty-seven degrees. ' Both men and ani—
mals inhaled only scorching vapours mingled with
a ﬁne and hot sand. The plants were dried up;

all animated nature faded away.

This gust of wind stillcontinued on the 27th ; it
seemed even to have augmented in violence. My
boatmen were quite dejected; it was by dint of
promises alone, that I could prevail on them to put
the laugh in motion once more, still dragging it
with the rope; but the impetuosity of the wind
very soon rendered their efforts useless, and we
were obliged to stop behind a point ofsand, which
put our boat under shelter from the current, which
the fury of the gale increased in rapidity and agita-
tion, but which did not secure us from the incon-
venieneies we suﬁered from the south wind. The
heat was even greater than on the preceding day.
The thermometer had risen to twenty-eight de-
grees. he sweat distilled from every pore, and

the
Page-46
AND LOWER EGYPT. 33

the sand which the wind hurried along with it ad-
hered to our faces and formed a mask on them.
Our employment every moment was to keep our
eyes cool with the water ofthe river, to cleansethem
from the sand which stuck to them, and to keep
them open. The air was darkened with a thick
fog of small dust, and as red as ﬁre. It insinuated
itself into every thing. Our caﬂ'as, our closest shut
trunks, were not secured from it; and if we at-
tempted to eat, our mouths were ﬁlled as much
With dust as wrth foodnj‘

This scorching wind abated at length, towards
the evening, and we were enabled to approach near
a little town called Beuisouef, built to ,the westward
of the Nile, and about four leagues from Sc/mzerzt
el Arab. The houses, constructed of brick ce—
mented with earth, and the turrets which seemed
to vie in height with the datevtrees surrounding
them, render the appearanceof this place less harsh,
less gloomy than that of the other villages which I
had hitherto seen. Ofall the places situated along
the Nile from Cairo, that is, forthe space of more
than thirty leagues, this is the largest, as it is the
least wretched. A manufactory of coarse carpets
renders it commercial. The country around it is
fertile and smiling, and the people who Cultivate it
seem to be less miserable, less depressed by 5 ﬁ' -
ing, than those who live nearer to the capital. A

VOL. 111. D Kiarclzqf
Page-47
34 TRAVELS IN UPPER

[firm/16f commanded at Benisomf. As I did not
choose to make any stay there, I dispensed with the
ceremony of visiting him.

A dead calmhad succeeded, on the 28th, to the
hunting tempest from the south. Only, towards
{our in the evening, a slight breeze from the north
arose; we took the advantage of it to continue our
route, and we arrived in the night-time at Bébé, a
large village, the residence ofa Kiusr/z'ef, and situ—
ated on the same. side with Beniwmf, from whence
it is distant only about three leagues. You see here
a mosque, and a convent of Cophts.

In this voyage by night, we run the greatest dan-
ger imaginable, through the negligence and un-
skilfulness ofour boat—men. We ran foul, in the
most rapid current, of one of those large barges
which are called 71203672, and which come down from
Upper Egypt very heavily laden. I know not how
our frail K’anjtz sustained such a shock, without be-
ing dashed to pieces. This was not all; and as if
we had been destined to perish at that very insta’nt,
after having driven violently against the barge, a.
gust ofwind came upon us unexpectedly, which,
taking our sails ahead, endangered our founder-
ing, and half ﬁlled our little vessel. We spent the
remainder of the passage, as far as Be’l/e’, in baling
out the water which the boat had taken in.

On
Page-48
AND LOYVER EGYPT. 35

On the morning of the 29th we set sail with a
ﬁne breeze from the north-east. The weather was
delightful, and the atmosphere, freed from the
clouds of dust with which it had been loaded the
preceding days, was encircled by its resplendent
canopy of azure. lVIountains of sand and of rock
elevated and hewn perpendicularly, present on
the eastern shore ofthe Nile, the course of which
they contracted, a chain of impregnable ramparts.
They extend themselves to a distance by immense
and frequent intersections into the desert, the hor-
rors of which they augment; and the river, wash-
ing them with its current, imperceptibly under—
mines their foundation. These lofty masses of
stone advance sometimes into the Nile, so as to
render the straits which they thereby form very
dangerous for navigation. In other places they re-
semble natural fortresscs, which would be, in rea~
lity, abundantly sufﬁcient to defend the passage
of the Nile. Refusing to harbour any human be-
ing,these barren and horrible mountainsarethedo-
main ofa multitude ofbirds who have there ﬁxed
their habitation, where they never meet with any
disturbance, and from whence they spread them—
selves over the waters, and through the country, to
search for prey and for pasture. The name of
Dsjeliel el Teir (mountain of the birds) given to
this chain of rocks, indicates with what sort of in-

habitants it is peopled.
D 2. \Ve
Page-49
36 TRAVELS 11¢ UPPER

We anchored at night at Srlzcicl’ Zu'éar, after
having sailed nearly ﬁve leagues‘ This is a pretty‘
large place on the western shore. We departed
from thence on the 30th, and arrived at night at
another well-built town on the same side, and
which is called Swan—Sen}. The north wind was
very high, and the atmosphere gloomy and loaded
with vapours. An innumerable flight ofwild ducks
passed near us in the course of this day.

I observed, at Seuwz-Seni, the manner in which
the women there carry their provision of water from
the Nile. It is impossible for them to be more
heavily laden; they carry three earthen vessels;
one, very large, upon the head; the second, some-
what less, and supported by a rope which they pass
along the forehead, hangs behind the back ; and,
to conclude, the third, which is least of all, is

placed upon the left shoulder andheld by the right
hand.

The weather cleared up on the gist, and a ﬁne
breeze from the north soon carried us to jl/Iim'et.
The same chain of mountains of which I have
been speaking, followed that shore of the Nile
which looks towards Arabia. Cut perpendicu-
larly, it appeared like a lofty wall constructed by
the hand of art.
Page-50
AND LOWER EGYPT. 37

CHAP. XL.

ﬁﬁiliet—Bmﬂzzz‘K's—.—/121rient L‘iij—-—-1lfmmar cf selling
fractured limbs—elfﬂbz and squall: (7’ wind—-
Sf/Ieick ﬂbaz/é—Ancien/ {if} of All/inoé—szm-
com/ts —~— lWe/lavoui — Jlozm/uiu of Almzzfcr/a—
ﬁﬁznfe/out—Corwent of l/llé’ PuMy—Lurge boat
—Siout—-—Jncl'zz[—Groi/oes of #16 ﬁlmy/Hills—

Birds of Siout.

IF the eastern shore of the Nile presents, in this
part of Upper Egypt, a frightful appearance, by
its sands and barren rocks, that of the western at-
tracts attention by its cultivated ﬁelds and its nu-
merous habitations. Among these Minis! deserves
to be distinguished. This city is very pretty when
compared with the other places of the same coun-
try. Narrow streets through which you walk in the
dust, houses built of unburnt bricks and bound
with earth, slovenly and irregular buildings, are
not, surely, very ﬁne ornamental features in a city.
However, when {or a long time the eye had habi-
tually dwelt only on towns and Villages, the condi-
tion of which excited pity, the city of Mir/[ct could
not fail to give pleasure. The house occupied by
the Kizzsc/uf, as well as those of some of the great
pe0ple, was built of stones, and their whiteness

D 3 relieved
Page-51
38 TRAVELS IN UPPER

lieved the monotony of the reddish gray of the
others. The bazars, or places for the resort of
merchants, are very “ell arranged; the crowds
which frequent them announce an extensn't- po-
pulation, and some activity in commerce. The ex-
chcqucr has established there. for loaded vessels. a
tax, which is the more easily levied, as the Nile is
not very broad in this part. There is here a ma.-
nufactor‘y of earthen vessels called ban/act's, in
which the water acquires that coolness so neces-
sary in a scorching climate where you have fre-
quently occasion to quench your thirst. The
clay of which they are formed is dug from the
environs, and they are a very proﬁtable branch of
industry to Miniei.

Pillars of granite broken and overthrown, others,
standing, and heaps of rubbish, indicate that
Minis; occupies the place of a more ancient city,
but there is a diversity ot‘ opinion respecting its
name. Some have pretended that this was the site
of Ifennopoh's, doubtless [17577710100125 tire Great, a
celebrated city distinguished thus from two othErs
of the same name formerly existing in Egypt.
Others are of opinion that these ruins are those of
Cynopoiz’s where the dog was worshipped ; ﬁnally,
Mr. Bruce looks on .Mz'm'et as the ancient P1117116.
However this may be, the modern city is nearly
fifty leagues distant from that of Cairo.

Two
Page-52
AND LOWER EGYPT. 39

Two letters of recommendation had been given
me at Cairo, the one for the Xian/15f of flﬁnict,
who was called Alias, and the other for a rich
proprietor, a friend of the French merchants, who
then resided on his own estates. They were both
absent. The [Gaye/ref was making the tour of hisl
district to levy contributions, and the Turk of Cairo
was in one of his \illages not far from ill/Hid. I
had the letter intrusted to my care conveyed to him.
The next morning he sent me his compliments,
with a present of ﬁve sheep, and two large pots of
butter, which he begged me to accept asa slight
indemniﬁcation to compensate the hospitality
which he lamented he was not on the Spot to ex-
ercise towards me.

The second in command at .Mz'nie/ having heard
it said that I was, or that I ought to be a physician,
desired me to be called in. He had broken his leg
three days before. A Copht had set it again, but
he had treated his patient in a truly curious man-
ner. He was laid on the earth, without either
mattrass, mat, or carpet, but on a bed ofsand. His
thigh and leg were stretched out and fastened be-
tween stakes driven into the earth, which supported
likewise a little brick wall erected on each side, so
that a piece ofmason work contained the fractured
limb, till the cure was perfectly completed, In
order to hasten the knitting of the bone, the sur~

D 4 geon
Page-53
4O TRAVELS IN UPPER

geon had composed a kind of plaster, with earth,
oil, and the white of an egg, and this he spread

over the limb every day.

On the evening of the 2d of April a dreadful
storm arose. A shower of hail, which is a very un-
common thing in Upper Egypt, was accompanied
with sudden and violent gusts from the south-west.
VVhirlwinds ofdust intercepted the rays of the sun,
and short and precipitate undulations agitated the
surface of the Nile. This stormy weather having
subsided on the afternoon of the 3d, we departed
from Aﬁniet, and stopped three leagues farther
offat ilIoula/zzz, a village belonging to the Kids-
c/zeﬂick of Mim'ei, and built on the same shore with
that city. The wind came round at night with
great impetuosity to the north; we were very
much incommoded the whole night through by
the motion of our boat, and the continual shocks
she underwent against the shore.

The same gusts of north wind continued to pu_r-
sue us still on the 4th, and carried us with a
dangerous velocity to Sclzeicl’ Abode’, a resort ofpi-
rates, tothe east of the Nile. Immense ruins, and
a long succession ofrubbish, announce that a great
city existed there in ancient times. This was the
fruit of adisgraceful passion, which poorly dis-
guised the appearance of gratitude affected by

1 Adrian
Page-54
AND LOWER EGYPT. 41

Adrian in founding it. It is well known to what
a degree this prince, renowned for his political
and warlike talents, was, at the same time, despi-
cable, on'account of his passion for A'rz/iiznﬁs, the
perfection of whose form is evinced by one of the
most beautiful statues of antiquity, still in preser-
vation. Adrian, during the time that he was in
Egypt with his court and army, consulted the
soothsayers, whose responsestruck bisimagination.
The oracle declared that the greatest danger
threatened him, unless a person dear to him, and
by whom likewise he was beloved, should sacriﬁce
himselffor his preservation ; and the dastardly Em-
peror had the cruelty to accept of the sacriﬁce.
The beautiful and generous Antinoiis precipitated
himself from the summit of a rock into the Nile;
and the vile despot thought to efface his disgrace
and hisingratitude, by building, in honourofhis fa-
vourite, whom he looked upon also as his deliverer,
a city which, under the name of Antino'e', perpe-
tuated his barbarous credulity and his criminal
afﬂiction. He embellished it with all that art can
imagine the most precious. The statues of Anti-
noiis were there considered as sacred representa-
tions; he built temples for him; he instinr‘ed
games and sacriﬁces, and he himself regulated tie
worship by which he was to be venerated.

Antinoiﬁ
Page-55
42, 'raavms IN UPPER

Antinoe' had ﬁlled the place of the ancient
Egyptian city of Ain't/us, in which a divinity who
bore the name of Besa was worshipped. This god
delivered oracles, and his celebrity long supported
itself. The ancient city of 145121115, and that of An.-
tinoe, are now’ equally ruinous. What remains
of this last excites regret for its destruction. You
behold not in these ruins the unwieldy and gigan-
tie monuments, those enormous masses of stone,
which the Egyptians raised rather to astonish than
to charm the eye. Every thing there was in just
proportion, all possessed those delicate contours,
and those elegant forms of the beautiful arehiteew-

ture of the Greeks and of the Romans.

My refs made many difﬁculties about approach-
ing the shore which covers the ruins of Antinoe.
It is peopled by the worst tribe of Egyptians, and
the rnostdetermined robbers. They attacked Pair.
Bruce, when, on crossing the 8331!, he intended to
stOp at this place*. I observed all the precautions
which prudence suggested, and I landed with niy
draughtsman. The extensive site, strewed witlrthe
most beautiful fragments, overwhelmed me with
astonishment and admiration. It must have occu-
pied a considerable time to travel over them' all.
The night approached, and it was impossible either

’* Travels to the Sources of the Nile.
to
Page-56
AND LOWER EGYPT. 43

to pass it on that dangerous coast, or to stray
very far from the boat.

The ferocious men, who dwell around the ruins
of the city ofAdrian, employ themselves in pulling
down those parts of the ediﬁces which still re-
mained, and in glutting their savage disposition by
the habitual commission of destruction. In the
time of Vansleb *, and of Paul Lucas, there were
many more pieces of architecture existing entire,
than I myself beheld. The greater part of the
buildings were constructed of large bricks, and
their red colour was still in perfect preservation.

hat which appeared to me the most remarkable,
wasa triumphal arch, or magniﬁcent gateway, sup-
ported by ﬂuted pillars. The front is ﬁfty feet in
length. A very bad representation of this is to be
seen in the Travels of Paul Lucas f. The capitals
of the pillars in particular are very badly repre-
sented. A more clear idea of it may be formed
from plate XXVIII. It is evident that the in-
tention was to have taken a complete delineation
of this triumphal arch, which, to all appearance,
served as the gate of the city; but while the de~
signer was employed in this work, and I, on my
part, was“examining some other portions of the
ruins, the noise of a gun fired oﬁ“ by one of our

* Nouvelle Relation d’Egypte, page 386 et suiv.
5f Voyage fait en 1714, tome ii.

companions,
Page-57
4.4. TRAVELS IN UPPER

companions, who was placed as a sentinel, gave us
notice ofthe approach of a gang of robbers. We
had only tirneto escapeto the boat, which was im~
mediately pushed oﬂ’shore, and we got clear, with
only the menaces and bullying of those barbarians.

You observe also, on each side of the gate, holes
cut for the hinges which sustained the folding-
doors. The country people say that these doors
are at Cairo, and that they were transported thither
by a devil. Paul Lucas saw them there covered
with plates of iron, and serving to close up an arch
which is near the palace of the grand provost‘t,
without doubt the Ozmlz', the ofﬁcer who at Cairo
is intrusted with the aﬁairs of the police. A con-
siderable number of pillars were still standing at
the other extremity of the city of Antinoe, to-
wards the mountains. All the remainder presents
nothing but a confused mass of pieces of architec-
ture broken and overthrown.

Onthe opposite side of the mountain, which
erminates, towards the west, the ancient en‘cloi-
sure of Antinoe, you distinguish a considerable
number of openings dug in the rock. These ea-
verns were undoubtedly places ot'sepulture, the cm
Imtomés. There are places such as these all over
Thebai's, principally in the environs of great cities,

* Nouvelle Relation d’Ecv >te pa e "8.1,.
0.1 9 - g 3
along
Page-58
AND LOWER EGYPT. 45

along those two chains of mountains with which
sthe Nile is bordered, and sometimes straitened.
‘ The inhabitants, too grossly ignorant to compre-
‘hend those means with which the arts supplied
. their ancestors, ascribe these excavations to de-
,’ mons. Superstition produces similar effects upon
the most opposite characters; for the missionary
{2223235 appeared to agree in opinion with the
then natives of Egypt; it seemed equally impos-
sible to him that human beings could dig such ca-
vities; but he subjoins to his opinion this pious
molliﬁcation, that the devils were forced to become
such good workmen by means of exorcismﬁ‘. On
the other hand, the Christian legend beholds in
that immense number of grottoes in the moun-
tains ot' Theba'is only the solitary retreats of holy
hermits, whose indolence was but poorly disguised
under the mask ofcontemplation; a ﬁne-sounding~
word, but totally devoid of meaning, when it is

applied to the life led by beings of this sort.

The mosque of the village in the neighbour-
hood of Antino'e', and whose aspect and population
form so striking a contrast with the superb build—
ings and the urbanity of the ancient city built by
Adrian, contains the tomb and the relics ofasaint
who has given to this place his name of S/zeick
ﬂlzddé. But, what is truly diverting, while the

9' Nouvelle Relation d’Egypte, page 384.
Mahometans
Page-59
46 TRAVELS IN UPPER

lVIahometans regard this saint as a zealous parti-~
zan ofthe Alcoran, the Christians claim and vene-
rate him as one of their bishops, who received the
mournful honours of martyrdom at 1min? 3‘. But
enough has been said respecting those absurd chi-
meras, ot’ which the men of all ages and of all na-
tions have been the may-game.

\‘v'e quitted the shores, formerly ﬂourishing, but
now desolate, of the city of Antino'us. We came
to anchor opposite to Mel/(zoom, three leagues from
Sc/zeic/t A’éaa’c’. Jl'Ir/ltzwui is a little city, of a very

eautiful appearance, Situatedat abonthalfa league
from the western banks ofthe Nile. A Kiasc/Jafwas
resident there. The plains which surround it are
very fertile, particularly in wheat. A large quan-
tity of that grain is exported thence into Arabia.

On the 25th of April wejourneycd from Ilia/-
1121:0312 to tutor/elem, where we arrived in the even-
ing. The distance between these two places is
nearly ten leagues. At two leagues below Almzfe'
low the eastern shore of the Nile is a chain of very
high mountains, entirely of barren rock. The
waters of the river have undermined them below,
by which means the upper part projects consider-
ably beyond the lower. This chain of rocks is
called the Mountain of x]!2021f€z1’a, after the name

5* Vansleb, Nouv. Relation d‘Egyple, p. 387.
of
Page-60
LND LOWER EGYPT. 4.7

of a holy Mussulman who is interred there, and in
honour of whom a little chapel has been erected.
By the side of this monument of the piety, or
rather of the silly superstition, ofthe lVlahornctans,
men of the same religion, great devotees to Saint
Abozzfezz’cz, but abandoned robbers, occupy caves
hewn in the rock, formerly peopled, it is said, by
anchoritcs, if, however, these excavations are not,
like those of Seize/M Abadé, and of the two chains
ofmountains between which the Nile ﬂows, in the
upper part of Egypt, ancient funeral apartments
and autiquetombs; for with whatever pious belief
one may be inspired, it is hardly possible to believe
that those myriads of grottoes thiere hollowed out,
could have been the work and the habitations of
so many solitary drones, whose favourite passion
was not, as is well known, the love of labour;
with so much the more reason, that in several of
them may oe still found incontestable proofs which
evince their high antiquity. Whatever may be the
fact, the robbers who inhabit them at present, are
the most formidable of pirates for the navigation
of Egypt, and the most difﬁcult to exterminate,
because they conceal themselves within the inac-
cessible cavities of those mountains.

Besides the danger which you are in of being
plundered, whilst sailing by the mountain of/Ibou-
fr. ‘2, you are there likewise exposed to the risk of

shipwreck.
Page-61
4S TRAVELS IN UPPER

shipwreck. The Nile is rapid and narrow in this
place, and the force ofthc current, or the violence
ofthe wind, may drive the boats against the rocks,
and dash them to pieces. At the time we passed,
the wind was furious, and the river extremely agi-
tatcd.

The city of ﬁﬂmfelaut is very considerable, and
more handsome than that of JUi/Iiet. The. streets
are broader and better planned. Acountry which
gives, in abundance, productions of every kind,
renders its situation agreeable; and fruit-trees,
above which numerous palm-trees shoot forth their
branches, shade its walls. Its commerce consists
in grain of every kind, and in cloths, which are
manufactured there in great quantities. The name
ofM'aufelout, or Ilianfzzllot, as Father Vansleb writes
it, signiﬁes, in Arabic, i/w place ofLoz’s exile; be-
cause, from the report of the same Jesuit, who
grounds his opinion on the very suspicious tra-
dition of the Cophts, a certain Lot was exiled
thither by his brother, one of the ancient kings of

Egypt to

The Xian/11f of ﬁlmzfelout was at Cairo, when I
departed from it. One of our merchants, who was
intimate with him, had given him information of
my, intended journey. The honest Mameluc in-

* Nouv. Relation d’Egypte, page 360. .
Sisted
Page-62
AND LOW’ER EGYPT. .. 49

sisted on giving me a letter of recommendation to
his steward, and made me promise that I would
lodge in a house which he possessed at Siout. The
man to whom the letter was addressed was not at
Illanfe/out, but I met with a most cordial recep-
tion from the treasurer (l’amaa’ar) of the Kiasclzef.

Opposite to Zlfanfe/out, on the eastern shore of
the Nile, is a large monastery of Cophts, com-
pletely enclosed with high walls, and into which
you are hoisted up in a basket, drawn by means
of a pulley. This has procured for it the name
of the Convent of '2/15 Pulley.

In the port there was a very large boat of a
beautiful construction. Its poop was ornamented
with sculpture: it was pierced to carry sixteen
guns; but for its mast, like the other vessels of
the Nile, that is to say, with its sails in the form
of hares-ears, fastened to yards of an enormous
size, it might have been taken for a corvette. It
was built under the direction of a certain Ac/zmei
bey, but he could never navigate it, except at the
season when the river was at its greatest height.

On the 6th we proceeded to Siout distant from
Jngfelom a little more than ﬁVc leagues. The
Nile winds about at this place, and its navigation

VOL. 111. E is
Page-63
SO TRAVELS IN UPPER

is difﬁcult and dangerous. I met with the agent
of Ali, Kiasclzef of ZlIszelout: he was a fat coun-
tryman, full of frankness and gaiety. He conduct-
ed me to his master’s house, and obliged me to
take possession of it. He made provision with
the greatest attention for all my wants, and pro-
mised to come frequently to see me. This house
was spacious, and well laid out; in front there
was a large enclosed court. Excepting the por-
ter, no person inhabited it. We could not have
been more comfortably lodged, nor, at the same
time, more tranquil, or in greater security; the
house of a Kiascizef being a respected asylum.

I had no great reason to be pleased with my
boat’s company. Having besides a design of pass;
ing some time-at Siout, I gave my reis his dismis-
sion. He acted like all other'bad servants,who com-a
plain incessantly of the services exacted of them,
and yet make supplication to remain, when you
seem to enter into their views by discharging them.

Sign! is one of the largest cities in UpchEgyjpt: ‘ -.
It is built at the distance of a quarter of a league on
the west side of the Nile, on an artiﬁcial eminence,
and close to a steep mountain. A canal conducts
thither the waters of the river, which you cross by a

very pretty Gothic bridge of three arches, composed
‘ ' of
Page-64
AND LOWER EGYPT. 51

of freestone. Its site is the same with that of the
ancient city of chopo/is *, where they worshipped
as a sacred animal, not the wolf, for there are none
in Egypt, but thejackal, which seems evidently to
have been described by Herodotus, when he says,
that the wolves of this country are very little larger
than foxes fv. There can remain no farther doubt
on the subject, when we read the passage ofEuse-
biusjj, quoted by citizen Larcher, in his notes upon
the translation of Herodotus. “ Others say that
“ the Ethiopians having made an expedition
“ against Egypt, were put to ﬂight by an immense
“ multitude of wolves, and that this adventure
“ gave rise to the name of Lycopolitus, given to
“ the nomewherethis happened.” It is well known,
in reality, that the nature ofjackals is to assemble
themselves in great bodies.

I presented myself to the Kiascqufin command,
called Daoua’, with the letters of Mourat Bey. I
met with a very kind reception from him. Wish-
ing to procure for myself as much consequence
and protection as I could, in a city where I in-
tended to sojourn for some time; I visited also

* Pocock believed that Siout was the site of AntmOPOIiS, 31'
though Ptolemy has placed it on the eastern shore. Mr. Bruce
(Travels to the Sources of the Nile) conceives Siam to be erected
on the ruins of the ancient city of In'u.

T Book ii. page 67, transl. by citizen Larcher.

I Prepar. Evangcl. lib. ii. tom. i. page 50. B. C. .
E z Ibraizmz
Page-65
52 TRAVELS IN UPPER

Ibrahim the Kiascizef, who was overseer of the ga-
thering in of the taxes due from the caravans of

Nubia. This was one of the best men in the
world.

The latter lent me his horses for the purrose of
visiting those mountains which form at the bark of
Siout, an amphitheatre of rocks and of sterility,
the foot of which is a full quarter of a league from
the city. The other side of this mountain which
looks towards the Nile, appeared at a distance, as
if it were pierced into holes of different forms.
These are openings into excavations hewn out in
the rock, which is calcareous. Some ofthese en-
trances are in the form of an arch, others in that
of an oblong square. They are of a ﬁne work-
manship, and crowded with symbolical ﬁgures,
among which you may observe, without as well as
within, that of a man ofthe natural size, with one
hand leaning on.a stick. The greater part ofthese
cavities form very spacious halls, and nearly thirty
feet in height. The interior of some of themvis
covered with hieroglyphical ﬁgures and characters,
which are almost totally effaced by the hand of
time. The remains of painting may be still distin—
guished on the ceilings, and in the cavities of the
ﬁgures. These halls receive the light through air—
holes formed in the rock ; they have also in them
deep wells hollowed in a"square form ; it is impos-

sible
Page-66
AND LO'WER EGYPT. 53

sible to see within them, or descend into them. I
have visited four or ﬁve ofthese vast caverns, and
I do not believe that there are any more of them
on the opposite side ofthe mountain in the neigh-
bourhood of Siout; but they are surrounded with
a number ofsmall grottoes, the openings of which
are circular, whereas those of the large ones are all
in straight lines.

These excavations, so numerous in the greater
part ofthe mountains of Theba'is, have appeared
very extraordinary things to our travellers of no
very remote date. Paul Lucas beheld there the
habitation of the ﬁrst men after the deluge, and,
consequently, the ﬁrst cities ofthe world*. Vandal),
always bordering upon the marvellous, and dis-
posed to believein sorcery, heard strange noises in
them, and he had great difﬁculty to recognise in
them the workmanship of human beings in No:
thing, however, appears of more easy comprehen-
sion than the destination of these subterraneous
places. It is well known with what care the ancient
Egyptians preserved their dead, and the attention
which they paid, in order to keep them from eorrupo
tion. The plains, so much the more precious for
the purposes 'of agriculture, that they are there nar~
rowed, were not proper for the sepulture of men

* Voyage in 1714, vol. ii.
1- N ouv. Relat. d’Egypte, many passages.
12 ’3 whom
Page-67
54 TRAVELS 1N UPPER

whom piety wished to etcrnize even after their
annihilation. The humidity which the watering
necessary to fertility there diffused, the labours of
cultivation, are means of corruption and disturb-
ance, which the religious system of the Egyptians
made it a duty to avoid. The dry and barren moun-
tains with which the plains are enclosed, presented
a certainty of preservation and of repose, and it;
was natural to deposit there the inanimate, but
carefully prepared remains of persons beloved or
venerated. The stone of this rock is soft, when it
is not separated from the mountains and exposed
to the air, which gives it a ﬁrmer consistency;
hence it was not very difﬁcult to dig it out ; and
what was taken from these excavations afforded
sufﬁcient materials for erecting habitations. It
may be farther observed, that it is in the neigh-
bourhood of great cities that the back of moun-
tains is hewn into such numerous openings. It is
then out of doubt that these are so many quarries
opened to serve as places of sepulture to the inha-
bitants of ancient Egypt, and that the beautiful
caverns of the mountain of Siam have been the
catacombs of the Lycopolitans.

At the foot ofthe mountain is an enclosure con-
secrated as the burial—place of the Mahometans. It
had been newly whitewashed, and its zig-zag con-
struction, in a sort of checker-work, rendered the

appearance of it picturesque and very pleasing.
I found
Page-68
AND LOWER EGYPT. 55

I found again at Siout the same kinds of birds
which have established themselves in the other
cities of Egypt, that is to say, kites, Sparrow-
hawks, percnoptéres, very tame turtle-doves (a
pair of these birds built their nest on the shelf of
a little window of the apartment which I occu-
pied), sparrows still more tame, for they come
into the houses, penetrate into the chambers, and
almost perch upon the inhabitants, to seelc for
something to eat; and, ﬁnally, a multitude of
lapwings. All these birds formed at Siout a sea
cond population, not less numerous, but far '
more peaceable than the other.
Page-69
56 TRAVELS IN UPPER

CHAP. XLI.

Practice of p/zjsie in Egypt—Peeu/iarities on 2711's
sawed—Egyptian jr/yrsieians—Speeies of leprosy
-——Vio[e/zl disorder of the eyes, with which the au-
tllor was attacked—Rents of the lzouses in Egypt
~Cireumeis‘ion—Rain in Upper Egypt—Re-
searches in guest cf lreaszzre—Perﬁrgy qf Ilze S}-
rian Inlerpreler.

J {W}

MY fame as a physician had acquired for me
grea“ renown. From all quarters people came
to consult me, and the higher orders called me
into their houses. Every body wished to try the
skill of the physician of a sullen of Europe, be-
loved by M’ourat Bey, and who had undertaken,
by the commands of Sc/zeie/l’ e/ Beiled, a journey
to Said, for the express purpose of attending an
Arabian prince, the most powerful one in Egypt:
Another attraction, which did not fail to aug-
ment the crowd, was, that consultation, visits,
and even medicines were all to he had gratis.

But the science of physic, in these countries, is
practised in quite a different manner from that in
use amongst us; and a medical professor, the most
approved by the most celebrated of the faculty,

would
Page-70
AND LOWER EGYPT. 57

would pass here for a blockhead ; he would even

ﬁnd himself very much embarrassed.“ In truth,

what could he say to a patient who would only pre-

Sent him his pulse to feel, who would not reply to

any one ofhis questions, and who would refuse to

point out what part of his body he felt outﬂof or-
der? Ifthe skilful physician should appear to h'esi-
tate upon the mere beating of the artery, respect-
ingthe nature ofa disease; ifh'e should allow him-
selfto interrogate the sick man ; if he attempted
to enter into ﬁne and long reasonings, sometimes
as obscure to him who listened, as to him who ut-
ters them, there is no rootn to doubt he would be
rejected as a man destitute of knowledge, unwor-
thy of conﬁdence, or ofthe name of a physician.
What would become of him, if, stedfast in the prin1
ciplcs and in the practice of his art, he were to
prescribe some of those remedies so much prized
in Europe, and which are not taken by the mouth ?
He would be attacked in the most violent manner,
and he might esteem himself happy, if, in his en-
deavours to escape, he came off with his life. The
Egyptians, as well as the Turks, hold remedies of
this sort in abomination, and a proposal to make
use ofthem is, in their eyes, an insult ofthe most
serious kind. I never can forget the adventure
which befell a French surgeon belonging to a ves-
sel which anchored in one of the ports of Cara-
mania. The Turkish Aga, commander in that

place,
Page-71
58 TRAVELS IN UPPER

place, called him in. He suffered, he told him, a very
severe pain in his head. The surgeon was inconsi-
derate enough to prescribe for him that which a
physician in this country must not presume to men-
tion. On a sudden the Mussulman was in afury,
that in order to cure a complaint in the head, an
application was to be made to a part diametrically
opposite: he drew out his sabre, arose from his
divan, loaded the Frenchman with imprecations,
and would have struck him with his scymitar, if
he had not found means to evade the blow.

But such mistakes as these are not the only dan-
gers to be encountered in the practice of physic in
Egypt. If it happens that the sick person sinks
under his disease, his physician must not expect the
same indulgence which, in Europe, charitably re-
moving from him every kind ofreproach, contents
itself with ascribing the death of the patient to the
incurable nature of his disorder, or to the patient
himself. He is regarded as an assassin. The fa-
mily, the neighbours of the victim, even the popu-
lace, always disposed to rise up against foreigners
whom they hold in abhorrence, unite together;
the massacre of the physician succeeds almost im-
mediately the loss of his patient ; and he is made
a sacriﬁce to the manes of the dead, and to the

vengeance of the living.

0n
Page-72
AND LOWER EGYPT. 59

On the other hand, if the physician has the mis~
fortune to be called in by a man in power, that
which would be in our countrya source ofrejoicing,
of importance, and of riches, becomes there a
source of perpetual terror and dangers. He should
diligently endeavour to shun an honour so peril-
ous; but if he cannot escape it, he must either
cure his too much exacting patient, or lay his ac—
count with dying himself. A most cruel alternative
undoubtedly, but which renders the trade ofquack-
ery very rare here, and so common in other coun—
tries, where they are allowed to kill with the
most perfect resignation. Does a remedy given to
one ofthese same powerful men prove troublesome
to him P The physician is ordered in: he is obliged
to remain during the operation of the medicine ;
he is informed that he must answer with his head
for any unpleasant termination. In the moments
of pain, looks of fury are darted at him, and the
wretched physician, more disordered than the sick
man himself, awaits, in mortal agonies, the issue
ofthe operation ofa medicine which his conjectural
skill could not permit him to assert would be sue.
cessful in its effects.

It will easiiy be conceived, that [observed every
precaution, in order to shelter myself from the dan-
gets with which the practice ofphysie is surrounded
in those barbarous countries, where it was imagined
that a man is a physician only in order to cure,

and
Page-73
6o TRAVELS IN omen

and where he is so far from meeting that praise-
worthy contlescension which, with us, renders the
employment ofa physician the easiest and the hap-
piest of professions. Iknew that, with the excep-
tion of some peculiar maladies, the symptoms of
which are evident in the exterior, the Arabs and the
Egyptians acknowledge but three sources, or rather
three sorts of disease; the bile, safm ; the blood,
dam; and the cold, bard. It is useless to enter
into any other explication with ‘them, and above
all, to attempt to reason. You have only to feel
their pulse in silence, as they in silence hold it out
to you ; and after some mute reﬂections, often very
perplexing, to pronounce one ofthese three words
characteristic of their diseases. If you guess right,
exclamations on your profound skill are a mark of
admiration which gives you new life. If, on the
contrary, you are not successful in this species of
divination, a negative motion of the head, which
accompanies a countenance on which contempt is
depicted, is equivalent to these words: “ Go, take

“ thyself oﬁ‘; thou art an ignorant fellow.”
Distinctions so little complicated in practical
medicine, are very happily not extremely difficult
to hit. The appearance of the consuller almost
always carries an exact indication. A yellow com-
plexion denotes bile; red announces blood; and pale
becomes the sign afraid. Into these three divisions
alone
Page-74
AND LOWER EGYPT. 6:

alone all diseases are classed, and you have no oc-
casion to pCi‘plCX yourSelfeithcr with their grada-
tions, their names, or their numerous subdivisions.
I was so well versed in these forms ongyptian prac-
txce, that, after having gravely taken the wrist pre«
sented to me, I could pronounce boldly, and it
very rarely happened that I was mistaken in my
conjecture. To this method of practice I at times
added a little deceit. I pretended not to under-
stand a word of Arabic. My interpreter was always
by my side; 1 however understood the language
sufﬁciently to lay hold ofthose details which were
given nnsuspectingly in my presence, in the persua-
sion that. I did not comprehend them. This ad-
dress was, without doubt, very allowable, when I
had to choose between eminence and the most dan-
gerous consequences. This deception, which par-
takes a little of quackery, and which detractors
from the art of medicine will not fail to call inse-
parable from the profession of a physician, was of
great service to me at Siout, on an occasion when
an attempt was made to put~ my skill to the test.

The Kiascluf one day sent and requested me to
come to his house; he was in his hall of state.
Twenty other ofﬁcers ofthe Mamelucs wcrc ranged
on each side of him on the ﬂoor of his divan, and
all of them, or] deceived myself, appeared to enjoy
perfect health. When]- was introduced, the Kins—

c/uf
Page-75
6:. TRAVELS 1N UPPER

rlzefannonnced that I was the physician of Mourat
Bey and Isma'z'n-Aliou-ﬂ/i; that it was necessary
to make trial ofthe w hole extent of my knowledge,
and that, moreover, they might speak with perfect
freedom before me, for l did not understand Arabic.
He began by declaring, that being in the habit of
losing some blood once every year, he had for the
ﬁrst time neglected that precaution, and that he
was disordered in consequence of it. His next
neighbour said, that a sudden cold had seized him,
from having passed the night in aboat, and that it
occasioned him great pain. Another was choked
with bile. They all explained, in a high tone of
voice, and in their own way, the real or imaginary
cause of their diseases, that each ofthem might be
in a condition tojudge if my science could enable
me to discover, or rather to divine them.

The Kiasc/zef made me approach him, and held
out his wrist to me: he waited till I pronounced
my opinion, with the impatience of curiosity. I
gave myself the air of meditating upon it for some
portion of time before I pronounced the oracle; I
then informed the [Gare/16f, by the interpreter, that
it was necessary he should be bled. I assured his
neighbour that his dreadful pains were the conse-
quence of a cold which he had caught some little
time before. I advised the third to get rid of the
bile which choked him; at last, when Iliad made

the
Page-76
AND LOWER EGYPT. 63

the tour of the circle and of wrists, each one re«
ceived what he conceived to be the most convin-
cing proofof my incomparable skill. The admira-
tion which it excited was unanimous. Every ﬁst,
shut and closely clenched, by a little perpendicu-
lar motion put forward from the body, the sign of
applause among the Turks, testiﬁed the general
approbation; and eulogiums, short among a
people frugal of their words, but very expressive,
were repeated by turns. A success so brilliant
had greatly enhanced my medical reputation, and
spread the fame of my wonderful knowledge all
over Siout and its environs.

Not that there were in Egypt no natives of the
country who dealt in empiricism, but they were
held in very little estimation, and their destitute
condition demonstrated sufﬁciently that they exer-
cised a bad trade. When I made my appearance
any where, the persuasion that a stranger must
possess greater talents than them, very soon set
them at distance, and their patients abandoned
them to resort to my superior illumination. But
I must say, to the honour of the physicians of all
nations, that there is one country where jealousy
never takes possession of their souls, and where
the success of another is only a source of satisfac-
tion and of conﬁdence. Not only did the Egyp.
tian physicians feel no envy from the splendour of

my
Page-77
64 TRAVELS m UPPER

my reputation, but they came openly to consult
me, and made me the conﬁdent of the uneasiness
which some of their patients occasioned them.

One of" the modes of cure the most in vogue
among the Egyptian physicians, is the burning the
part affected. This species of eauterization is the
basis of the science of physio with the natives of
the East. It was known to the ancient Greeks,
and their physicians practised it, and called it Am-
Ziig burning; but they used it with great discretion,
and it was in their hands a very powerful remedy.
The Egyptians apply a medicine so violent upon
every occasion, and without any regard to the part
to which they make the application. I have seen,
for instance, a man whose eyelashes, and a part of
his eyebrows, had been scorched with a red—hot
iron, in order to cure him ofan inﬂammation in his
eyes. Another, who was attacked with a pain in
his stomach, had likewise submitted to this cruel
operation. To the pit of his stomach, and directly
opposite upon his back, a piece of redchot iron had
been applied, ofthe size of a crown-piece. -But
the burning physician had had, to all appearance,
too heavy a hand, for the stomach and the back of
the wretched man werelaid open, in such a man-
ner, that his body was, so to speak, bored through.
The great. heat, and the want of dressing to these

wounds, .had made them degenerate into the most
4 ﬁlthy
Page-78
AND LOWER EGYPT. 65

ﬁlthy ulcers, far more dangerous than a pain in
the stomach. A man attacked with a disease in
his lungs, was covered with exterior sores; and a
dropsical man who came to me for advice, carried,
to no purpose,” on his belly, more than fifty
wounds, made by ﬁery cauterizations of the size
of a crown-piece.

It is not astonishing t hat the Egyptians, with
their three divisions of diseases, should frequently
deceive themselves respecting the nature of those
with which they are aﬁceted. An ofﬁcer of the
lVlamclucs, a young and handsome man, came to
consult me. He was so infected with that dread-
ful disorder so generally diffused over these coun-
tries, and which poisons the very sources of life,
that he had lost almost entirely the power of pro-
pagating his species. His situation was horrible.
I gave him to understand what his malady was, but
he was very much displeased at it; he maintained
that I deceived myself, and that it was nothing

else but bile.

Sometimes the practice of physic procured me
very extraordinary revelations and proposals. I
received a visit from a rich man of Sioul. He drew
me aside in a very mysterious manner. He bore
impatiently the presence of my interpreter, to

which, however, it was necessary he should submit.
VOL. 111. F After
Page-79
66 TRAVELS IN UPPER

After a great many turnings and windings, he told
me that a beautiful slave of a lmrem carried within

her too evident tokens of a clandestine and impru-
dent amour. The master, a man in power, who

had been for a long time at Cairo, had announced
his return. Apprehension and disquiet reigned
through the whole house; every one dreaded the
inevitable fury of the owner of it, and the most
dreadful calamities must of necessity be the fatal
consequences of a very natural accident, but which
is never pardoned in these countries. He con-
eluded by proposing to me, that I should make the
approaching cause of these great: misfortunes to
disappear, and by promising me- a considerable
recompense. “ lVly profession,” said I to him, “ is
“ to preserve life, and not to take it away; go carry
“ elsewhere, if thou darest, thy proposals and thy
“ recompenscs.” Notwithstandingthe decided tone
of voice in which I gave my reply to the interpreter
to transmit to him, this man persisted, and he
thought to persuade me by an argument which he
deemed invincible. “ Is it not true,” said he,
“ that it is better to deprive abeing oflife who does
“ not ltnow what it is, than to expose several who
"" cnjoy'it to a certain death? for the return ofthe
" master will not fail to be the epocha of the mas—
“ sacre of eight or ten persons, among whom will
“ be he unfortunate slave.” Quite surprisedthat
such an argument as this did not engage me to be-

come

7—O-
Page-80
AND LOWER EGYPT; 67

come myself an assassin, in order to prevent others
from being so, and, above all, that his handfuls of
gold did not tempt me, my gentleman quitted me
very much displeased, and I never heard whether
the fears which he manifested were well grounded;
it would indeed have been a very imprudent act
in me to procure information of it.

In the number of diseases which I have had
occasion to prescribe for, 1 observed a very singular
one on the skin of an inhabitant of iS'iout. His
complexion, like that of all the other natives of
the same southern cantons of Egypt, was of a
deep brown. But about ﬁve or six years before,
a part of this blackish skin had given place to
another perfectly white; these white spots were
spreading more and more, so that when I saw this
man, his face, his arms and hands, and his whole
body, were covered, and, as it were, marbled with
large ﬂakes of brown and white; the blackish
skin was disappearing gradually, and it is to be
presumed that his skin will have become com-
pletely as white as milk. He did not experience,
in other respects, any pain or uneasiness.

This disorder is a species of leprosy. It is, ac-
cording to all appearance, the same with the born/5
or bekaq ofthe Arabs *. When it spreads itselfall

* See the Description ofArabia, by Niebuhr, page 120, and
the note of Forskal on the following page.
F 2 OVCI'
Page-81
68 TRAVELS IN UPPER

over the body, the Arabs, as Forskal reports, call it
fun-ms. The same author adds, that the spots of
this kind of leprosy are never visible on the hands
nor around the navel; but my observation has
convinced me to the contrary; for the man of
Siam had these very parts oversprcad with white
Spots. This disease is neither infectious nor fatal.
Niebuhr says that a negro who had been attacked
with it at Aloe/m was relieved, but not cured of
it, by the use of sulphur.

Whilst I thus employed myself, pretty much
against my will, about the health of others, 1 was
attacked in my turn with a violent disorder in my
eyes, of that kind which the Greeks have named
clzemosis. The ball of one of my eyes started from
its orbit; the membranes, swelled and extremely
inﬂamed, covercd it totally; it was so frightful to
behold, that no one of my attendants durst look
upon me. A burning fever consumed me. Ien-
dured insupportable agonies. Slccp never closed
my swollen eyelids; it was impossible formetolio
down; for, in that position, the eye pressing upon
the abscess which had formed itselfat the bottom
of its orbit augmented my sufferings.

It is upon these occasions that the traveller, at a
distance from every species of assistance, must col-
lect together all the knowledge he may possess, and

the
Page-82
AND LOWER EGYPT. 69

the resources of his fortitude. Very nearly blind,
for the other eye, though less disordered, was very
much inﬂamed, I had no longer the power of bleed-
ing myself, which I had done in other circum-
stances. An Italian missionary resided in the en-
virons; I sent to entreat him to perform this opera-
tion for me. He employed that kind of lancet
with a spring which is made use of in several parts
of Italy and Germany, and which is known under
the name ofﬂeam. To put the ﬁnishing stroke to
my misery, the awkward monk in attempting to
bleed me, broke his lancet, and left the point in
my arm. He protested to me, that this was the
ﬁrst time such an accident had happened to him,
which afforded me neither pleasure norconsolation.
I was obliged to undergo a pretty long operation,
in which my detestable surgeon slashed my arm in
orderto extract the fragment of theﬂeam. At last
the earnest desire which I had to be bled, made me
resolve, although with regret, to permit him a
second time to make an attempt to draw blood from
me with a better instrument, and, above all, with
greater skill. The monk, not without many
delays, which made me apprehend some still
greater accident, at last succeeded in giving me a
copious bleeding, which afforded me no relief.

I received as little from emollient cataplasms,
the torrents of cooling draughts, and the otherre-
F 3 medics
Page-83
7o TRAVELS IN UPPER

medics which physie makes use ofin these diseases.
Nty sufferings, instead of abating, continued to
increase every day. VVearied with my position,.I
ordered several poppy-heads to be brought to me ;
these I had boiled in some water, which I drank
when night came on. In a very short time [ex—
perienced the effects of this narcotic. Iwas soon
asleep, and whilst sleeping I disencumbered myself
of the props which kept me upright, Ifell stretched
out at full length, and after a profound slumber of
ﬁfteen hours I awoke again without feeling any
pain: the eye had returned into its socket entirely
cleansed; in a word, completely cured. There
only remained a weakness in my eyes, but this was
not of long continuance; and my sight became, in
a short time, as good and as clear as it was before.

During my eonvaleseenee, I was under the ne-
cessity ofchanging my lodging. ﬂ/z' Xian/15f, the
owner of the house which I occupied, arrived with
his harem and all his train, and I yielded up the
place to him. A small house was hired for me; in
front there wasa court, which, to tell the truth,
was not a very spacious one. I occupied the
whole of it, and for the rent of this habitation I
gave only two medium, or rather more than a penny
a day; and it is to be presumed, that, in my
quality of foreigner, I was made to pay a higher
price than another would have done.

I often
Page-84
.-

AND L0\VER EGYPT. [I

I often saw passing in the streets of Sioul, those
processions which accompany the ceremony of
circumcision of children. Those newly initiated
young people are carried through the city in great
pomp, clothed in the most splendid dresses, and
mounted on horses adorned with all the trappings
of luxury. Two men support each of the children,
a third leads his horse by the bridle, and crowds
follow them. The procession is opened with
hautboys and cymbals, after them come several
ﬂags of different coloured silks. There are some
white bordered with red, others are black or green,
with a white border. In the midst of all, the
name of God, and the Mussulman’s profession
of faith, are imprinted in Arabic characters.
Priests, singing passages from the Alcoran,
surround them; behind them marches a man
bearing a kind of tabernacle, adorned with
diamonds and streamers, and containing, without
doubt, the sacred book: he precedes the group of
the circumcised, behind whom one or several
camels are led, carrying a pair of kettle-drums,
the basin of one of which is much less than the
' other, and both the sound and the measure of
them are very monotonous. Women, who close
the procession, mingle incessantly with the roaring
music of the instruments a shrill sound, which is
accompanied by long rollings of the tongue, and
this is the exclamation ofjoy among the Egyptians.

.F 4. During
Page-85
72 TRAVELS IN UPPER

During my residence at Sioul, a circumstance
happened, which was looked upon as very extraor-
dinary. This was the descent of rain; so uncom-
mon in the southern parts of Egypt, that it may
be said, without the fear of being in an error, that
it never rains there. However, on the 15th of
April 1778, with a violent south wind, the sky was
clouded during the whole day, and from time to.
time a little rain tell; but at night a storm arose,
with a torrent ot’rain, accompanied with lightnings
and some claps of thunder.

Daozzd Kiarc/ztf, commandant of Sioul, who had
an inclination to put my talents in physic. to the.
test, of which he had conceived a high opinion,
imagined that I must also he a dealer in magic, and
that the most hidden treasures, not being able to
resist the power of my art, left their most secret
abodes to spring into my pocket. The Mameluc
was very desirous of sharing, at least, the immense
proﬁts which such a valuable science must of
necessity procure for me. A mosque in the city
passed in the minds of the inhabitants as the
depository of riches concealed from every eye; he
summoned me secretly, and made meipromise to
go to this temple, in order to discover, by my
sorceries, the place where the gold was to he
found, which we were to share together. Every
thing which I could say to undeceive him was in

vain;
Page-86
AND LOW/ER EGYPT. 73

vain; and perceiving that he grew displeased, I
allowed myself to be conducted into the mosque,
and on my return I assured him that the report
spread concerning the pretended treasures, said to
be concealed there, was an imposture, and that
not an atom existed in it.

I proﬁted by this opportunity to reproach the
Kiasclzef for having endeavoured to deprive me of
my Syrian interpreter. With the intention of
having an explanation on this subject, I had taken
with me a young Alexandrian servant, who,
understanding the [izzguzz Frauen, could, though
with some difﬁculty, serve me as an interpreter.
Daoud appeared to be very much surprised: he
sent for the Syrian, who had not the assurance to
maintain in the presence of the Ifiascﬁef, what he
.had accused him of to me with the utmost degree
ofperﬁdy. Indeed he had the audacity to assure
me that Daoud wished him to enter into his service,
and that he had received from him, even in writing,
the most ﬂattering promises. But he was obliged
to acknowledge his imposture, and the irritated
Kiasclzef was going to order the bastinado to be
applied to the soles of his feet, if I had not en-
treated a pardon for him, which I had some
difﬁculty to obtain, and only upon condition, that
if the same man gave me any new cause of dis—

pleasure,
Page-87
74. TRAVELS IN UPPER

pleasure, I should give him notice of it, that he
might himself have the charge of punishing him.

On more than one occasion, my companions
and I had remarked that this Christian of Syria
betrayed us. I was going to have an evident
proof of his vile and dangerous spirit ofintrigue,
and, in a very short time, I convinced myself of
his deep villany. It was indeed merely by chance
that I escaped the dreadful snare which had been
laid to destroy me and my companions, as will be
related in the following chapter.
Page-88
AND LOWER EGYPT. 75

CHAP. XLII.

Preparations for a journey to Sennaar—Conspirag
oer-ween i/ze c/zief of tile caravan of Nubia and
tile Syrian interpreler, to assassinate tile autizor,
obliged lo renounce i/ze journty in/o Aigyssinia—
Caravans of Me JVuZJians—Monﬁeys—Perroguels
——NuZJians——Visit lo a camp of Bea’ouins—Perc-
noptérs—Cofizts—Repasl—Rua/Iers for inefeet
v—A’prieots— If’ater-melons —- Zli’elons——Dates ——
Hemp, its infoxicaiing gar/lily.

I HAVE said that one IiJra/zim Kiasc/uf was em-
ployed to oversee the taxes to which a caravan of
the Nubians which had arrived at Siout' was sub-
jected. I saw him frequently; he was of a very
gentle character, and he expressed a great deal of
affection for me. The important service which he

rendered me is a proof of the friendship of that
honest Mameluc.

m

The journey into Abyssinia did not for a 1110-.
mcnt quit my imagination. I met, at Siout, with
the most favourable opportunity for undertaking it.
A caravan of negroes were on the eve of departure
from thence in order to return to Sennaar, the

capital of Nubia, from whenceIproposed passing
into the country of the Abyssinians. My prepa—

rations
Page-89
76 TRAVELS IN UPPER

rations were made. All my arrangements had been
concerted with the black chief of the caravan ; to
conclude, I was on the point of commencing this

long journey, when an incident happened which
obliged me to renounce it for ever.

The employment of Ibrahim gave him some
authority over the Nubians of the caravan. I en-
gaged him to use his credit to make a treaty for
'my journey with the chief or KrzZJz'r; this is the
name given in Nubia to men in power, from the
Arabic word K‘eliir, which signifiesgrmt. The Nu-
bian demanded at ﬁrst an exorbitant sum. We had
several conferences at the house of Ibrahim, on this
subject, through the medium of the Maronite in-
terpreter. But the K017ir not choosing to abate his
demands, I quilted him without coming to any
terms. Some days after, this same Nubian came
to me at my own house: he was grown more
reasonable. His price, though he had diminished
it greatly, was still excessive : however, he wished
to speak to me in private. After having dismissed
every body except the interpreter, he asked me
with a great appearance of mystery if I possessed
any drugs which were powerful love-potions. He
assured me that medicines of this sort were alone
held in estimation in his country, where, said he,
every action, every thought, has a relation to the
pleasures of love; and that nothing might be want-

ing
Page-90
AND LOWER EGYPT. 7:7

ing to his gross imposture, he added that his king
had expressly commanded him to bring him some
strong stimulants of that nature. It wasa very im-
proper timc for him to think of such provision, at
the very moment when the caravan had already, so
to speak, one foot in the desert. I did not pay very
great attention to falsehoods, of which the people
of this country are not very sparing, and I replied
to the Kalli)”, that, charmed with the pleasant and
important occupations of his Salaam-hm Majesty, I
would employ all the resources of my art in order
to preserve him, as well as his subjects, in such
happy dispositions. The negro appeared so well
satisﬁed with my reply, that he instantly abated, at
one stroke, the half of the price which he had de-
mandcd; so that reckoning the provision which
I must have made, a journey so long and so difﬁcult
would not have amounted to more than 150 pata-
cas, or about 800 francs (33]. 6s. 8d.).

I ﬂew to inform Ibrahim of the news which gave
me so much satistaction. But he did not appear
to partake of my joy: he congratulated me very
coldly, and, in a tone of solicitude, he recom—

mended it to me to conclude nothing without his
interposition. "

Affairs had changed in a very wonderful manner.
It was no longer necessary for me to express the
desire
Page-91
78 TRAVELS IN UPPER

desire I had of departing with the caravan ; it was
the chief of the caravan himself who solicited me,
who persecuted me to take my departure with
him. He came to see me several times in a day,
and every day he became more earnest in his im-
portunities. Promises the most ﬂattering which
he could devise, were not spared; he assured me
that I would be very well received at the court of
his king. In the description ofthe comforts which
I was to enjoy there, this sensual and savage beast
told me that I should eat the whole day long,
and that there the most beautiful women would be
devoted to my pleasure. Ispoke to him one day of
the assassination of IV]. du Roule, whom his com-
patriots had massacred when Maillet was consul.
He did not know immediately what reply to make;
he wished to deny the fact, and afterwards to
justify it, by saying that the French physician was
an ignorant fellow, and that besides he was never
introduced to the king. This was false, since it
was actually at Semzaar that du Roule lost his life.
At last, to remove all difﬁculties, and to testify, as
he said to me, his extreme desire ofconducting me
into his country, and of presenting me to the black
monarch ; from whom I might be certain of a wel-
come reception; thc Kabz'r, after having reduced
his demand to the moderate sum of ﬁfty patacas
(275 francs, or about eleven guineas), for which he
engaged to furnish camels and previsions, con»

cluded
Page-92
AND LOWER EGYPT. 79

eluded at length by declaring that he would exact
nothing of me for my journey, as he was certain
that his sovereign would give him a sufﬁcient re~
compense for the service he was going to render
him by conducting me to his court.

An alteration so extraordinary, gave me indeed
some suspicions, which my companions, less eager
than I was to penetrate into the interior of Africa,
had not been so slow in conceiving. However,
the extreme desire I felt of availing myself of a
favourable opportunity to execute a project formed
so long before,and setting aside every consideration
which could have diverted my mind from it, I was
on the point of giving my word to the Kabir to
attend him, when I received \a message from
Ibrahim, who invited me to come to his house
attended only by my Egyptian servant.

“ Thou must renounce, at least at this period,”
said the Kimc/zefto me, “ thyjourney to Sennaar.
“ What thou toldcst me ofthe importunities of the
“ Kabir awakened suspicions in me. Iwould not
“ speak to thee on the subject before I knew whe-
“ ther or not they had any foundation: at present
“ I am assured of the certainty ofa horrible con-
“ Spiracy formed against thee and against the other
“ Francs who accompany thee. I knew that the
“ dog ofa Syrian, who serves thee as an interpre-

“ ter,
Page-93
83 TRAVELS 1N urmm

“ ter, had frequent conversations with the Kilbl'l’s
“ I ordered them to be watched and listened to,
“ and i give thee to understand, that the design of
“ these two rascals was, \\ hen thou shouldest have
“reached the desert, to massacre thee and thy
“ companions, and to share thy spoils, which the
“ interpreter assured his associate were invaluable.
“ In order that not a doubt may remain with thee
“ respecting the atrocious pcrtidy of that dog whom
“ thou hast cherished to betray thee, I will order
“ him to come in, and oblige him to acknowledge
“ every thing in our presence.”

The Syrian arrived of course a moment after.
His appearance was that of self-satisfaction; the
stupid grin which he usually were, widened his
mouth. He imagined that the young Egyptian
not being qualiﬁed to support an important conver-
sation, we had been obliged to have recourse to his
talents. The Kilns/12f addressed a few questions to
him, which very soon clouded the tokens of his
joy: he turned pale and trembled; but when Ibra-
him concluded by declaring, that it was no longer
time to dissemble, that the Kabir had given him
the most minute details of his pcrﬁdy, he fell as
with a thunder—stroke at the feet of the Kiascﬁef.
To the confession of his crime he added some cir-
cumstances which were not known, accusing the

Kaliir of being the author of the plot, and of what
he
Page-94
AND LOWER EGYPT. 8:

he called his own misfortune. Jinn/rim assuming a
terrible tone, commanded the villain to be caned to
death. I permitted terror to convey perturbation,
and the most cruel pangs, into the soul of this base
rascal; but when I saw the instruments ofpunish-
ment prepared, I entreatcd he might be forgiven.
[bra/lira, indignant, would not listen to a petition
in his behalf, and would only grant it on the word

fhunour which he made me give him, that I
would myself punish the culprit. I expressed my
warmest gratitude to the Klara/1% and I drove
from my house the Kzzbir, who not knowing what
had just come to pass, was come once more to
urge me to depart with him. In this manner my
project .of a journey into Abyssinia was defeated.

I will not quit this subject without speaking a
few words respecting those Nubians who, from the
extremity of Africa, come to bring into the capital
of Egypt those valuable commodities which nature
seems to have placed in their countries, to compen-
sate the insupportable heat of the climate and the
oppressive scorching heat of the sun. And, in the
ﬁrst place, I must rectify the mistake ofan English
traveller who visited Upper Egypt some years be—
fore me, because history and commerce are inte-
rested in it. Speaking of Stout, Mr. Bruce says,
that the caravan of Seminar came there Formerly,
and that those who composed it rendezvoused at

YOL. III. G ' Siam
Page-95
82 TRAVELS IN UanR

Siout and at Illimfelout, and placed themselves 1mg
der the protection of the Bey who resided there;
afterwards entering by the south cast into the de-
sert of Libya, they proceeded forward to E/ozza/I,
which is the great Oasis of the ancients, anal from
thence crossed the immense desert of Selima '4'.
These caravans from the interior of Africa have not
ceased to travel on the shores of the Nile to Siout
and to Alanfe/out, and that which I have just re-
lated, proves that they rendezvous there.

Besides gold and other merchandise, these Afri~
cans bring also animals, such as monkeys and per-
roquets, which form the amusement ofrieh people
at Cairo, and one of the resources employed by
puppet-show men in order to attract the multitude,
:Monkeys, which, like a number of other animals,
were one ofthe objects of veneration to the Egyp-
tiansv'r, are not natives of their country. Theinha-
bitants ot‘thosc cities where they were considered as
sacred, went into Ethiopia in search ofthis agree-
able species of divinities. It is, besides, from this
country, and from the land of Yemen, the forests of
which, according to the report of Niebuhr, abound .
with this sort of animals, that they are brought into
Egypt as an article of commerce. I never saw

* Travels to the Sources of the Nile, translated by Castéra.
f [51's em'm Serapz'Jgue ct longa’ .rz'mz'a cam/(S, says Prudentius, in.

making an enumeration of the gods of the Egyptians.
there
Page-96
AND LOWER EGYPT. 83

there above three sorts: the baboon, the same which
the ancients called the eynocephalus (dog-headed)
monkey *, the macaca'lr, and the aigrette i.

That species ofperroquets, which the Nubians
bring in great numbers to Cairo, is that of the par-
rogue! evil/z [I rose-coloured ring rozmd its neck§ ; its
Arabic name is dour-m, which is also that ofa large
kind of black millet cultivated in that country.

The Nubians of Dongolzz and ofSemmar are well
made and tall in stature. Their skin is ofa beau-
tiful shining black. They wear, like theTurks and
the Arabs, a beard and whiskers. On this subject I
shall remark, that in France I have met with very
well informed persons who did not know that the
Negroes had beards. Although, in general, it shoots
later with themthan with the Egyptians, and though
they are not so well furnished with it, they seldom
fail to haveapretty thick one on their faces. The
chief ofthe caravan at Sioul, as handsome as he was
rascally, bore on his chin a long and‘ thick beard.

* Le papion ou babouin proprement dit. Bullion, Hist. Nat.
des mlad.—Simz'a :p/rz'nx. Lin.

1L Macacque. Button, Hist. Nat. des (Liam—Sim}: 9710712th
gas. Lin.

1 Aigrette. Button, Hist. Nat. des @ad.—Simia qygu/a. Lin.

§ Button, Hist. Nat. des Ois. & pl. enlum. No. 551.—
Psitmcm Alexarzdri. Lin.

G 2 As
Page-97
84 TRAVELS IN UPPER

Ashe was at that time advanced in years, this heard
was ofthe most beautiful white, as well as his whis-
kers; and this colour, in contrast \\ ith the ebony
black of the rest ofhis figure, produced a singular
effect, which was far from being disagreeable.

These same Negroes follow the religion of Ma:-
homet, but they add to it practices and superstitions
which are foreign to it. They go almost naked.
It is a luxury to wear a long shirt of gray cloth,
the sleeves of which are turned up under the arm-
pits, by which means the arm is left entirely bare.
They have usually several little leathern cases
fastened to the fold of the left arm. These are
so many pockets in which they keep money, to-
bacco, and other articles for daily use. To the
bend of the right arm is fixed a poniard, ofwhieh
the handle and sheath are likewise of leather. On
a journey they are armed besides with a long sabre,
the blade of which is straight and thin. They are
all bare-headed, and they plait and dress their
hair or their wool in different manners. I have,
seen some among them whose head-dress was ar—
ranged in such a way as to give it a complete re-
semblance to those wigs which at that period
were denominated perrzzgues 42 I’Aﬂgloise. Those
of the Nubians who carry on commerce speak
Arabic, but they have among themselves a parti-
cular idiom.

The
Page-98
AND LOWER EGYPT. 85

The great reputation which I had acquired as a
physician extended far and wide. A Scheick of
Arabian Bedouins, encamped in the environs of
ﬁlanfe/ozzt, wrote to the Kiasc/uf ofSiout to entreat
him to engage me to visit his camp. I promised to
go ifthey would furnish me with horses. Two days
after the Bedouins brought me some which were
very beautiful, and we departed under the guidance
of these same Arabs in the afternoon. We directed
our course to the north-north-west, and arrived at
night at a village, of which the S/Ieick e/ Belled,
previously apprized by our conductors, received us
very kindly. Near this villageI saw a great many
percnopters. I have observed that the colour of
the plumage ofthese birds was not the same in all
the individuals. Some, and these the most nume~
rous, are ofa dirty white, others ofan ash gray, and
the upper part of the body and the wings of some
are of a blackish hue.

The following day, at ten o’clock in the morn-
ing, we entered the Bedouin camp, where I was
expected. A great number of tents were erected
on the sand at the foot of the chain of mountains
parallel to the western shore of the Nile, in the
neighbourhood of a village called Tami/E, and at
the distance of about four leagues from ZWsze/out.
The Schick was employed in settling some ac-
counts with his secretaries; Ihad to wait some

G 3 time
Page-99
86 TRAVELS IN UPPER

time before I was introduced to him. It was not
for himself that he had sent for me, but for an old
Arab who had been blind for two years. It was a
matter of astonishment through all the camp, when
I was heard to declare that my skill did not extend
so far as to operate miracles, and that nothing less
than one could restore sight to the Arab. I took
leave ofthe Sir/zeic/c, who was called .Mabmoztd, and
ofthc innumerable quantity of flies with which the
tents of this camp swarmed. I never had seen such
an assemblage of vermin in any of the countries I

visited. ~I resumed the road to Siam by the route
of jllmzﬂzlonlo

In these two cities the greatest part ofthepopun
lation is composed of Cophts. Most of them are
occupied in the manufacture of blue cloths, in
which they carry on a considerable commerce. Be-

ing theonly people in that part of Egypt who knew
how to read and write, they were the stewards, the

administrators, the secretaries, of rich or powerful
men, and they understood perfectly, as well as those
in other places, how to make an advantageous use
of the conﬁdence and the incapacity ofthose whose
property they had in their management. Several of
them acquired great riches, but they had the good
sense to use them with moderation, and entirely
within doors. They knew too well the danger
which they incurred, by openly displaying their

1 opulence