
Page-100
AND LOWER EGYPT. 87

opulence to the eyes of despots, who, accustomed
to look upon the fortune of others as if it belonged
to themselves, barbarously sport with the property
and the lives of men.

One of the opulent Cophts of Siout insisted on
giving me a dinner. The interior of his house was
genteel and commodious: every thing there an,
nounced a man at his ease; but I no more saw a
woman than if it had been the house of a Mus-
sulman. The repast was served up with profu-
sion ; we drank copiously of some excellent date-
brandy, which was presented every moment in
small glasses of Venice crystal.

:0

In other respects their manner of taking their
meals is the same with that of the Turks and the
Arabs. They are seated, with their legs crossed,
around a table with oneaJoot, in form of a large
circular teaboard, on which dishes are placed,
without either tablecloth, plates, knives, or forks.
They make, with the right hand, the circle ofthe
dishes, from whence they take successively, and
according to their taste, little morsels with their
ﬁngers. The left hand, destined for ablutions,
is unclean, and must not touch provisions. They
sometimes transfer what they have taken from one
dish to another, to form a mixture of it; of this
they make a large ball, which they convey to a.

o 4 widely:
Page-101
38 TRAVELS IN UPPER

widely-extended mouth. The poultry and the
boiled meats are divided into pieces, and torn with
the hands and nails. The roast meats are served
up in little pieces, cut before they are put to the
spit, and no where can you eat better roasted meat
than in the countries of Turkey. The table does
not afford an opportunity for conversation. They
only seat themselves to eat very rapidly; they make
quick dispatch, and swallow with precipitation.
They are not men whom the pleasure of society
assembles together, they are brutes whom want and
voraciousness collect around their pasture. The
grease distils from each side ot‘their mouths. The
stomach sends forth frequent fumes, which they
lengthen out and render as noisy as they can. He
whose hunger is soonest appeased rises from table
ﬁrst. It is not regarded as a want of politeness
to remain alone at the board, if your appetite is
not perfectly satisﬁed. *

During my abode at 81'0ch [ did not fail to fre—
quent the baths, to which I had taken so great a
liking, and which appeared to me very salutary.
These baths are neither so handsome nor so well
attended to as at Cairo. Besides the different man-
ners of kneading the ﬂesh, of suppling the limbs,
and of rubbing the body, the Sybarites of these
countries take great pleasure, in their own houses,

in having the soles of their feet rubbed with pieces
of
Page-102
AND LOWER EGYPT. 89

of pumice-stone. That which is the most esteemed
for that purpose is of a blackish hue. They give
it the form of a wedge cut with an edge on one
side, and with a ﬂat surface on the other. This
form is the most convenient for the hand of the
rubber. The ﬂat side, or the bottom, is striped
with deep incisions, which give it the roughness
of a large ﬁle, and which scrape the soles of the
feet in a superior manner.

The pieces of pumicestone thus manufactured
are called, in Arabic, (slim/(’11:. It is said that the
best come from Palestine. The operation of hav—
ing the soles of the feet roughly rubbed, is one of
the luxuries ofthe Egyptians; but it is insupport-
able at ﬁrst to Europeans, and it excites involun-
tary motions, startings which the sensibility of the
parts occasions. After some time these delicate
sensations subside, and they ﬁnd at last some

pleasure in the operation, especially when it is
performed by an experienced hand.

The plains which surround Siam are remarkable
for their abundance. The farinaceous plants in
these countries excite admiration by a rapid vege-
tation, and an astonishing quantity of produce.
The orchards yield fruits of every kind. I ate
there a great many of the nab/ta, a sort of plums
which I have already mentioned, and which disap-

pear
Page-103
90 TRAVELS IN UPPER

pear from the markets about the beginning of
April. You ﬁnd there small apricots, the pro-
duce of trees planted in the open air "L They
are called misc/zmisr/z, and have an agreeable ﬂa-
vour. They dry them, and afterwards dress them
as sauce to meats. These dishes, which usually
garnish the tables of the rich, are of the best sort
which come from Egyptian kitchens.

But that species of fruit which, by its pulp and
its cooling liquor, is the best qualiﬁed for allaying
the inward heat which the climate excites, is the
pastéca, or water-melon“? The cultivation of this
is one of the most general and most proliﬁc in
Upper Egypt. The pastécas here are a great deal
better than in the lower part, or even at Cairo.
The markets are ﬁlled with them ; and they sell at
a very moderate price, by which means the poor,
as' well as the rich, have it in their power to cool
themselves with their aqueous and sugary juice.
Their Arahie name is Ital/61:11. These water-me-
lonsof Egypt are round, and grow to a very large
size. Those of the best quality, when they are
fully ripe, have a perfectly smooth rind of a deep
and blackish green. Thestripes are slightly marked.

* Przmm armem'am, misjmisj. Forskal, Flora Egypt-Arab.
page 67.
1 Cum-(55m cit;~ullzu,1Egyptiis battich. Forskal, Flora Egypt.-

Arab. page 75.
The
Page-104
AND LOWER EGYPT. 9!

The pulp is white near the rind, and red in the
middle. Their seeds are ﬂattened ; their shell is
black, and the interior of a beautiful white.

I have eaten at Siouz‘ pastéeas of another kind,
which are called batted; sa'ia’i. It differs from that
which I have now described, in that its rind is less
smooth, and of a whitish gray, the pulp in the
middle of the fruit is of the most lively rose co-
lour, the shell of the seeds hard, almost ligneous,
and of an aurora-red colour. This species grows
to a still larger size than that with a green rind;
and its pulp, likewise, ﬁrm and brittle, preserves
equally an agreeable coolness, and the same slightly
sugared ﬂavour. Both ofthem are wholesome and
useful food in climates where the heat makes the
blood to boil, and gives sharpness to the humours.

From the commencement of the month of May
they eat also a large quantity of melons, very beau-
tiful in appearance, but in general of a very in-
different quality. They have, at the same season,
very large pumpkins, of which the Arabic nameis
szzrnzclz. They eat likewise small green dates, the
stones of which have acquired no consistency. But
these fruits, delicious when they have arrived at
maturity, are very had before they are formed, al-
though in that state they are very much to the taste

of the inhabitants of Upper Egypt.
Hemp
Page-105
9:2. TRAVELS IN UPPER

Hemp is cultivated in the plains of the same
countries, but they do not spin it into thread, as
in Europe, although to all appearance it might be
thus manufactured. It is, nevertheless, a plant very
much in use. For want of intoxicating liquors,
the Arabs and the Egyptians compose several pre‘
parations from this plant, with which they procure
for themselves a sort of pleasing drunkenness, a
state ofreverie which inspires gaiety, and produces
agreeable dreams. This sort ofannihilation of the
faculty of thinking, this kind of slumber of the
soul, has no resemblance to the intoxication pro~
duced by wine or strong liquors, and our language
has no terms expressive of it. The Arabs give the
name of keifto this voluptuous relaxation, this sort
of delicious stupor.

The preparation from hemp, most in use, is made
by bruising the fruits with their membranous cap-
sules ; they press the paste which results from this
with honey, pepper, and nutmeg, and they swal—
low pieces of this cornﬁt of the size ofa nut. The
poor, who charm their wretchedness by the stupe-
faetion which hemp produces, content themselves
with pounding the capsules of the seeds in water,
and with eating the paste. The Egyptians likewise
cat the capsules without any preparation, and they
mingle them hesirles with the tobacco which they

smoke. At other times they reduce only the cap-
sules
Page-106
"

AND LOWER EGYPT. 93

sules and the pistils to a ﬁne powder, and reject the
seeds. They mix this powder with an equal quano
tity 0t tobacco, and they smoke the mixture in a
sort of pipe, a very simple imitation, but coarsely
executed, of the Persian pipe. It is nothing but
the shell of a cocoa-nut hollowed and ﬁlled with
watEr, through which they inhale a pungent and
intoxicating smoke. This method of smoking is
one of the mosr common pastimes of the women
in the southern part of Egypt.

All these preparations, as well as the parts of
the plant employed in making them. are known
under the Arabic name oflzasr/zir/z, which properly
signiﬁes kerb, as if this plant were [/25 herb, the
plant, by way of excellence. The lzzzsc/zirlz, the
consumption ofwhich is very considerable, is to be
found in all the markets *. When they wish to
design the plant itself, unconnected with its vir~
tues and its use, it is called basté.

Although the hemp ongypthas a great resem-
blance to ours, it differs, nevertheless, in some cha-

* This denomination of lzeré has given rise to an error of M.
Niebuhr. “ The Izascl-z'c/z,” says he, “is a sort of herb which
“ M. Forskal, and some others who have preceded us in the East,
“ have taken tor the leaves of hemp.” (Description of Arabia,
p. 50.) It is, nevertleless, very certain that the Iran/rid: of He
Arabs is nothing else than a species, or a variety of hemp, of
which I have been just giving an account.

TQCtCrS
Page-107
94. TRAVELS IN UPPER

racters which appear to constitute a particular spe.
cies. On comparing attentively this hemp with
that ofEuropc, you observe that its stalk is much
less elevated; that it acquires in thickness what it
wants in height; that the port of the plant is rather
that ofa shrub, the stem of which is often more
than two inches in circumference, and numerous
and alternate branches which clothe it down to the ..
very root. Its leaves are also less narrow and less
indented. The whole plant exhalcs a stronger
smell, and the fruits at the same time are smaller

and more numerous than in that species which
grows in Europe.
Page-108
AND LOWER EGYPT. 95

CHAP. XLlIl.

Tomz'e/z —A5071tigé——Rolibers — Tit/2m —— Copizl-w
Sic}: 7mm, and tile met/20d in 13/1265 [/16 (ml/207' re-
pressed lzis arrogmzre— C(zt/zolic Coplzls—T/ze pen
sew/ions u‘lziriz 1/13} safer—Engraved slams and
medals—-ﬂp/>les—.Mel0ns—Doum 80'5in —- eferies
of palm-nee of TbeZJzzis—Dzﬂﬁzrent species of [/28
leprosy.

AFTER a considerable residence at Sioul, during
which I was ill half the time, I thought of con-
tinuing my route to the south of Egypt. But as
there were in that port no boats ready to ascend
the Nile, I was obliged to alter my mode of tra-
velling. I hired two camels and six asses to con—
ve) me to EL/zmimm. VVe departed from 51'0er the
23d of May 1778, a little before mid~day; and
pursuing a road which sometimes conducted us
toward the winding course of the Nile, and
sometimes carried us to a distance from it, we ar-
rived at Tomie}: toward nine o’clock at night. This
is avcry small market-town, the residence of a
Xian/26f. A very large number of (late and other
trees surround it; and this enclosure of foliage
and verdure, so useful in tempering the ardour

0f
Page-109
96 TRAVELS IN UPPER

ofa fiery sun, and in softening the rustic and mi—
serable aspect ofthe houses, is in common to this
with the other parts of the country.

This place must not be confounded with a large
village, of which the very similar name of Tamra];
might occasion some mistake. But this last, in the
neighbourhood of which there is a canal, is de-
pendant onthe Kiusrbrﬂic/c of E1212”, and about
ﬁve hours journey from Faium itself.

Between 5101M and Tamra/1 we met with Abou-
zige’, another considerable market-town. Fragments
ofancient ediﬁces and rubbish mark here the site of.
the ancient city of Aim/115. But all is degraded, all
is destroyed. There are here no monuments, no
remarkable fragments in preservation, every thing
here is broken down and laid in heaps. '

\Ve experienced many diﬂiculties in ﬁnding a
place of abode at 'I‘omie/z, and it was only by hav-
ing recourse to the authority of the [Gaye/15f that I
was able to obtain a shelter for the night. They
show in the mosque a camel of stone ; you see it
turn itself towards Meow, at the instant when the
caravan of the pilgrims departs from Cairo, and
turn again towards Cairo when it leaves Mecca.
Such is the fable which the inhabitants of T072258]:

relate,
Page-110
t
AND LOWER EGYPT. 97

relate, and which gives celebrity to their town. I
had it not in my power to examine this miraculous
ﬁgure.

We departed from Tomie/z the 24th, at six o’clock
in the morning. We had hardly proceeded two
leagues, when four men on horseback advanced
towards us. A peasant gave us to understand that
these were robbers; they had in reality the physi-
ognomy and the whole exterior of real highway-
men. They followed us for a long time, without
speaking a word, and wheeling round and round
us. From timetotime they retreated, then couch-
ing their lanees, they assumed the appearance of
bearing upon us with their horses on full gallop.
Prepared to bring down the whole four, had they
come to the attack, they occasioned us no uneasi: ;_
ness, and we diverted ourselves with observing
their manoeuvres. Perceiving at last, that, so far
from inspiring us with terror, we did nothing but
laugh, they quitted us, and disappeared with the
rapidity of the wind.

At ten in the morning we arrived at Tabla, a
market—town, nearly twelve leagues from Siout.
The Kiasc/zef, who commanded there, was then
cncamped without the village. He was preparing
to march against the Arabs, who refused to pay
the accustomed tribute. We stopped to rest our-

VOL. III. H selves
Page-111
98 TRAVELS 1N UPPER

selves for :1 moment, with the intention of'resuming
our route immediately, but a Copht, steward and
secretary to the Kitzsc/zef, and who possessed great
riches, begged me to come and see him; he was
ill. I thought that I might have got off on pre-
scribing some remedies to him, but he insisted that
I should remain near him, till his cure was per-
fectly completed. It was in vain for me to urge
as a pretext for hurrying my departure, that the
prince ot‘the Arabs, Isma’izz Alma Ali, expected my
arrival; he assured me, that being very well known
to that prince, he would write to inform him that
he was the cause of the retardation of myjourney.
I earnestly entreated him not to do this, for the
Arab Irmu'm was perfectly ignorant of my existence.
I thought that interest would more nearly affect the
(Bap'ht, the men of that nation being degraded by
a sordid spirit, and the love of money, the misera~
ble effects of a long state of slavery; 1 represented
to him that having rather a numerous train, the
residence of such a crowd ofstrangers in his house
could not fail to occasion him great expense and
inconvenience. I received from this brute a reply
worthy of an insolent upstart: “ Dost thou think,"
said he to me, “ that Orientalists possess no more
“ magnanimity and generosity than you Francs, to
“ whom the expense of one person more is a heavy
“ burden? Were there a thousand ofyou, I could,
“ without being incommoded, lodge and entertain

6‘ )vou.”
Page-112
AND LOWER EGYPT. 99

“ you.” I had then no choice left but to take up
my abode with JlJuI/z'ém .Mourcous; this was the
name of my patient.

His complaint appeared to me to be very se-
rious; it was an exceedingly violent erysipelas, a
kind of St. Anthony’s ﬁre, which covered entirely
one side of his breast. This part ofthe trunk ap-
peared as if it were burnt; and the patient felt the
same pain from it as if ﬁre had been applied to it
perpetually. He could not suffer any clothing or
the slightest covering of linen to approach it; and
if his shirt, although very ﬁne, happened to touch
the parts affected, he uttered loud outcries. This
very acute distemper had already tormented him
for some time. The Italian missionaries ofEc/mzz'zmzz
had been called in as physicians: they had bled
him, bled him a second time, and still continued
to bleed him. The disorder had not abated, and
they had given up the case as lost. I was, I will
not say more skilful, but more fortunate, and at
the end of ten days Illa/Iii»; Mourcous was perfectly
cured.

He did not know how to express his joy and
gratitude. The most delicate attentions were la—
vished on me all the time that I remained with him.
The day before my departure, he sent to me by
another Copht some rouleaus of chequins. I called

H 2 to
Page-113
lOO TRAVELS IN UPPER

to mind the tone of arrogance with which I had
been received. I assumed in my turn the accent
of haughtiness, and returning the gold into the
hands of him who brought it, I ordered him to tell
the master of the house, that a Frenchman rendered
his services solely from the pleasure of being use~
ful; but that he would never submit to live at the
expense of another; that of consequence I re.
quested him to present to .Mzzl/z'im Illanrcous a very
ﬁne telescope, as a mark of my gratitude for the
reception I had met with. .rThe gift was accepted,
and I quittcd the Copht impressed with a more

just opinion of Europeans than he seemed to have
entertained at my arrival.

In the number of Cophts, inhabitants of Ta/lta,
several were Catholics ; it is well known that the
Cophts compose one of those sects which the R0-
man church condemns as heretical. I frequently
visited the most respectable among them, and it
was with pleasure that I met there, their curé, an
Egyptian who had passed ﬁfteen years in a seminary
at Rome. He spoke Latin and Italian very well,
and I took delight in conversing with a man whom
I regarded as an European. He informed me that
the Egyptians attached to the Latin church were
cruelly opposed and persecuted by those of their
numerous compatriots who followed the izeres} with
which they were infected, and that their most vio-

lent
Page-114
AND LOVt’ER EGYPT. IOI

lent and implacable pcrsecutor was the very man
with whom I resided. Possessing the conﬁdence
of theKiasc/zeﬁ, he arrogated to himself the autho-
rity of making exactions upon those of his nation
who had adopted a religious persuasion preached
by strangers; and frequently these last were obliged
to collect considerable sums, in order to prevent
the effects of his animosity. Besides, all those
Catholics, at least most of them, were poor and
wretched; they lived in a state of misery and
depression. Not a Bey, not a Kiasehef, not one
Mahometan in oﬂice, being able to do without
the assistance of the Cophts in the management
of their affairs or in the exercise of their employ—
ments, reposed any conﬁdence in them, or em-
ployed their services ifthey could help it. W'hilst
they promised them happiness after death, they
rendered them very miserable during their life—
time; and philosophy knows well how to appre-
ciate the nature of the services which they receive
from our monks.

The curé procured me several little antique
stones, the engravings of which had some merit.
It was more easy to collect these works of anti-
quity in Upper Egypt than in the lower part, where
the travellers who daily frequent it have rendered
them very scarce. It is after the heavy rains of
winter in the north of Egypt, and after the inun-
dation ofthe Nile in the south, that the Egyptians

H 3 more
Page-115
102 TRAVELS IN UPPER

more commonly discover engraved stones, as well
as medals. All the world knows that good medals
are very rare in Egypt, whereas you meet there
with excellent engraved stones.

You cat at this season, at Tu/ztrz, apples which
are small and ofa very bad quality; they are called
in Arabic, Ief/m. You see there also a prodigious
number of melons of that species known in Egypt
under the name of zzgour 3“.

it is in the plains of Tabla that the ﬁrst speci—
mens of the species of palm-tree called {an-palm
made their appearance, peculiar to the upper part
of Egypt. It is there called down and down saidi'f.
This palm-tree, very common in T/zeba'z’s, shoots
forth several stalks naked and ofa middling thick—
ness. Circular rings deeply mark them all their
length, and broad leaves in the form of a fan ter—
minate and adorn their summit. The fruits, like
those of other palm-trees, grow in clusters or
bunches. Several of these trees produce a beauti—
ful effect. By disposing their stalks in the form of'
elegant vases, nature seems to have taken pleasure
in enlivening, with the verdure of these magniﬁ-
cent bouquets, plains frequently stript naked, and
always scorched hy the sun.

9' Cucumz': folz'z': palmato .rz'mmtz'x, pamz': gloéon': eclzz'mtz': . . . .

Cucumi; angurxa. Lin.

1- Barnum/1456Mﬁrm}. Lin.
It
Page-116
AND LOWER EGYPT. 103

It is easy to perceive that this species of palm.
tree has no other resemblance to the date than the
general characters which constitute their genus;
and that it differs from it in great and numerous
speciﬁc dissimilitudes. It is without reason then
that the jesuit Siccard has asserted that the down:
are a kind of wild date-trees *; and this observa-
tion is not foreign to the subject. for l have heard
the same error repeated by several persons, other-
wise very well informed.

Another mistake propagated respecting the (foam
is this: it has been pretended that the kind of
resinous gum, imported from Africa and the Indies
under the name of Mel/2m”, and which is nothing
else than the common and imperfect myrrh,
distilled froin its stalks. It is a certain fact, how-
ever, that they extract from the palm-tree of
Thebai‘s neither gum nor any other sort of
analogous substance.

The down produces fruits twice a year. They
are round and rather longish; their size is that of
an orange, but their form is irregular. They are
one of the means of subsistence to the miserable

part of the people of Upper Egypt. They take off

* Mem. of Missions to the Levant, vol. v. p. 222. Gran-
ger has also confounded the down with the wild date-tree.—

[Travels in Egypt, p. 240.]
H 4 the
Page-117
104 TRAVELS 1:: UPPER

the ﬁrst envelope which is red, and they eat the
spungy and almost dry substance with which the
nut is covered. Although the Egyptians think
this a very savoury fruit, I found it very insipid.
I cannot give it another resemblance than to bad
gingerbread, of which it has the dryness, and the
faint and disagreeable sweetness. I have eaten a
fruit in America the taste of which has a great
resemblance to this, and which is produced by the
crourbm'il, a very large tree in the southern coun—
tries of the new continent '9'“. The pithy substance
of the damn is also a medicine made use of in
Thcba'is. They infuse it in water with dates; and

this draught, which is a cooling and gentle purge,

is of great service in tempering the ardour of a
fever and in curing it.

I found again in the same place a disgusting and
horrible malady, of which I have seen negroes in

the French colony of Guiana, become the most
wretched victims: it is known there under the
denomination oleze reddisease. An Egyptian who
was attacked with it, presented himself to me
to be cured. He had lost the greater part of the
joints of his hands and his feet, which had fallen
off one after the other. The commencement of
this species of leprosy which the Arabs call man’s-
jozzrdam, announces itself by the numbness, the red~

j” Hz'mma’a com-55ml Lin.
nCSS
Page-118
AND LOWER EGYPT. 105

L ess and swelling of the ﬁngers, and by the red-
ness and swelling of the cars. This is the [cl-proxy
of I/zejoint: described by Hillary it.

Whatever may be the nature of this leprosy, it
does not pass in Egypt for an int‘eetious disorder;
it is nevertheless very prudent to have no com-
munication with those who are infected with it.
Lepers ofevery kind, who, without being common,
are not very scarce there, are not sequestered from
society as in Turkey. The Egyptians do not
observe any precaution to keep themselves from
contagion. They never imagine that they are in
any danger from this carelessness.

The leper at Tall/m was a gentleman quite at his
case; he lived according to custom, with his
family and his friends, and ate at the same table.
The joints which remained on his ﬁngers, and the
greater part of which were ready to fall off, served
him to seize in the dishes, in the same manner as
the others with their entire ﬁngers, the pieces of
meat which he carried to his mouth in order to
go back for more. It was not till after I had
advised them to it that his friends resolved to

break oﬂ“ so close a communication with a com-
panion so disgusting.

* William Hillary’s Observations on the Changes of the

Air, and the concomitant epidemic Diseases in the Island of
Barbadocs.—London, 1759.

Furthermore,
Page-119
r06 TRAVELS IN UPPER

Furthermore, this same man was threescore
years old. He had a good appetite, ht slept well,
and his physiognomy indicated the most perfect
health. He suffered no pain whatever. He felt
only very violent itchings in the joints of the
ﬁngers of his hands, and in his toes, when they
began to ulcerate. No person of his family had
been attacked with this disease, and he himselfhad
not observed the symptoms till about three or four
years before. His condition did not give him any
uneasiness; notwithstanding his age and his
disorder, he still preserved a great deal of vivacity,
and a fund of sprightliness. When I announced
to him that his cure was beyond the reach of my
skill, he did not appear affected; and as ifI had
been giving him the best news possible, he cried
in a joyous tone, Alla/2 Karim, God is great!

Different observations have demonstrated that
men attacked with the leprosyare violently disposed
to the physical pleasures of love. An example is
cited of a leper, who, on the very night of his death,
was hurried away several times by the heat of his
temperament. I have seen at Caneus, in the isle
of Candia, lepers in great numbers, men and
women, banished without the gates of the city in
imiserable cottages, who abandoned themselves to
the utmost excesses ofa voluptuous irritation. They

were tobe seen sometimes taking their disgusting
and
Page-120
AND LOWER EGYPT. 107

and impetuous pleasures in the face of day, along
the road side which conducted to the city, and
near which they had their dwellings. The leprosy
which consumed them, is the leprosy properly so
called, which the Greeks denominate lepm, the
same kind with which the Jews were infected, and
which was very common and at the same time
contagious among them. This was also, accord—
ing to Galen, an epidemical distemper at Alex-

andria.

Curious to know if the sick man of Taizta,
although attacked with a leprosy of a different na-
ture, felt the same voluptuous transports with the
lepers of the isleToT Caiidia, and of several other
countries in Turkey, I put some particular ques—
tions to him. He recounted to me with the ut-
most simplicity, the most secret particulars of his
domestic economy. His advanced age had not in
the least degree weakened his constitution. Burn-
ing with continual desires, there was not a day
passed in which his wife did not feel morethan one
effect from it. Even whilst he was speakir g [0 me
On the subject, his countenance assumed an ex-
pression, his eyes brightened in such a manner, as
to leave me no doubts reSpecting what he had said
to me. But, and this is an importantobservation,
his wife, notwithstanding an habitual and intimate

communication, did not experience one symptom

of
Page-121
108 TRAVELS m UPPER

of the malady, and felt no inconvenience whatever
from it. Three children, the produce of their
union, enjoyed equally the most perfect health.
This fact was conﬁrmed to me by all those who
had a more particular acquaintance with the
family of this man.

However, the leprosy of l/zejoin/s, the red disease
of the colonies of America, is regarded there as a
very contagious malady, and they carefully separate
from society all those who are infected with it.
Brought by the negroes of the coast of Guinea, it
extends its ravages there to the negroes of the
other parts of Africa, as it does to those who are
born in America, and even to Europeans who
cohabit with black women. The small degree of
malignity which a disease, cruel in other climates,
retains in Egypt, is then a Favourable exception for
that of this country already privileged in other re-
spects. It even appears, that this inﬂuence ofthe
atmosphere does not conﬁne itselfto Egypt alone,
and that it extends to other countries of theEast.
Indeed M. Niebuhr has remarked that at Bombay,
where the leprosyis not rareamongthecommonalty
of the Indians, it cannot be malignant, for they
allow, without difﬁculty, those who are diseased
with it, to work with those who are tin good
health ‘4”.

* Description of Arabia, page 121.

Whilst
Page-122
AND LOWER EGYPT. 109

\Vhilst I am on the subject of one of the most
horrible maladies with which humanity can be
afﬂicted, and that I may no more return to it, I
will add, that I had occasion to see besides, in
Thebai’s, two persons eaten up by another species
of leprosy, which I have since met with in the isle
of Scio, where it is more common than the ordi-
nary leprosy, that of the Jews, and which the
Greeks call [ova/z. Those who are attacked with it
have a hoarse voice; they are tormented with a
cough, their eyebrows disappear; large ﬂeshy
blisters diSplay themselves over all the body; the
nerves contract, and the hands and feet shrink in
an extraordinary manner, but the joints of the
ﬁngers do not {all oﬁ‘ as in the leprosy of the
joints. It is probable that this species of leprosy
is that which Hillary has distinguished under the
denomination of the leprosy of the Arabs *. It is
not uncommon in the East; but is not considered,
like the ﬁrst sort, as very contagious. I observed
at Scio, that they did not separate from society
the sick persons whom it had attacked.

These same patients are not besides tormented
with the same desires as the other lepers with re-
spect to the mechanism of love. It is from not
having paid sufﬁcient attention to the different
species of leprosies, and to the divers symptoms

* See the work before quoted. _
which
Page-123
IIO TRAVELS IN UPPER

which they exhibit, that people have fallen into
contradictions with regard to the temperament of
lepcrs. It is certain that those last mentioned had
no disposition to lechery. The sufferings occasion-
ed by the violent spasms with which their disease is
accompanied, and which cause all the members to
contract, deprive them of every species of desire,
as well as of all power to gratify it, supposing
them capable of the passion; besides, they attain,
generally speaking, a very advanced age.

Neither the Egyptians, nor any other of the
eastern nations, are acquainted with any preserva-
tive against the leprosy, nor with a remedy to heal
it. A Frenchman who gave himself out for a
physician, and w to rambled over the Levant,
pretended to possess a secret, but infallible speciﬁc,
against this disorder. He visited Caneus, where
the number of lepers who exist there offered him
a wide ﬁeld for giving undeniable proofs of the
virtue of his precious discovery. But as expe-
rience did not realize his ﬁne promises, his remedy
acquired no greater celebrity than the other
panaceas which this mountebank vended from
country to country. I regretted very much that I
was not provided with some hemlock pills; it
would have been very easy for me to make trial of
them, and there is every reason to presume that it
would not have been unsuccessful,from the experi-

ments
Page-124
AND LOWER EGYPT. Ill

ments of M. Ratlaw, physician at Amsterdam,
who by the use of those pills, employed likewise
with success in the case of excrescences, performed
the cure of the elephantiasis of Europe “

I never heard mentioned, either in Egypt or in
the other parts of the Levant which I have tra-
versed, that leprosy which attaches itselfto houses,
and respecting which there are prescriptions in
Leviticus}. Michae'lis is of opinion, that by a
metaphor taken from the human leprosy, the
Orientalists may have given the same name to
certain Spots which eat into the walls,and gradually
approach nearer and nearer; he suspects that this
disease of the walls must be more common, and
more easily perceived in the East, where salt-petre
aboundsi. These are assuredly very learned con~
jectures, but they have no foundation in truth.
The inhabitants of the East pay indeed no atten~
tion whatever to the leprous spots of buildings,
admitting that they still make their appearance
there. The same people are as little acquainted
with another leprosy, which adheres to the gar—
ments, and upon the subject of which the Jewish
legislator has recommended such minute precau-

* Micha'élis. Learned and curious Travellers, 82c. Sac.
Qies. xi.
1- Chap. xiv. v. 34, et seq.
I \Vork already quoted, ques. xii. .
tions.
Page-125
IIZ TRAVELS IN UPPER

tions*. Those diseases of inanimatethings, which
served only to form the Jews to habits of cleanli-
ness, have disappeared from the East with the
dirty people for whom they were devised.

lVIen with red hair and beards areas uncommon
in the Levant as in Egypt. But this colour is
not an indication of leprosy, nor a reason to excite
suspicion of it, as some persons have imagined via
it is not in the Levant, nor more particularly
in Egypt, they observe such precautions; since,
in the last of these countries, the lepers, what~
ever may be the nature of their malady, are
never sequestrated; and that in the Levant they
never dream of sending them away, and of shut-
ting them up in enclosures without the cities, till
the moment when the leprosy is acknowledged,
and when it is evident to every beholder. On the
other hand, some Arabs of Egypt dye their beards
of a reddish colour, with the powder ofizemm, and
you can very well imagine that, if the idea ofthe
leprosy was inseparable from a beard of a red‘hue,
they would not wish to excite a belief that the}?
were attacked with a malady so repelling.

They know but little of the Arabs and the Egyp-
tians, who imagine, like MicliaElis, after the opi-

* Lev. chap. xiii. v. 47, et seq.
1- Work already quoted, ques. xxviii.
DIOR
Page-126
AND LOW’ER EGYPT. 113

nion of a German physician, that in order to re-
move t/ze suspicion of [eproyg Hie} rendered 1.7m!
colour universal w/zic/z could give [Iii-t]: to it. Car-
rogy people, adds he, must have introduced t/iis fiz-
s/iion, by being t/ie ﬁrst to paint l/ieixzselrves wit/z
Z’EIZIZIZ to disguise l/ieir redness. It is ﬁrm t/zatpatc/ies
employed at ﬁrst to conceal pimples, are 5} degrees
become a pm“! of dress. I am inclined to oeiie‘ve
1/112! this is fire real solulion of size difﬁculty 9*. All
these reasonings accumulated in the closet, must
fall to the ground, when opposed to facts. Egypt is
not the country of fashions, frivolity does not
there dictate every day, new customs, and con-
tinual alterations in dress. There, habiliments
and manners remain as they have been for ages
past. Their variation, which is a proof of in—
stability of character, does not compose a feature
in that of the inhabitants of Egypt. Besides, the
practice of reddening the [zearcl with iiemza is very
far from being universal. Inever saw but two
or three Arabian princes who made use of it. To
conclude, how could red-haired people have any
occasion to dye themselves red in order to dis—
guise their colour?

* Work already quoted. Qges. xxviii.

VOL. I”. I
Page-127
114. TRAVELS IN UPPER

CHAR i IV.

Sozlﬂzzjé—I/alimz man/ts of [/16 Sarita do Propa—
gandapide. [lift-7' awful-fig), [/zeir mode of fife, t/Ieir
7101156 —Le//c'r of their .s‘nperfor—Crzi/zo/ic Cop/11$
~—Evlzmimm --— Pzzizopo/js— Cd/lxo/ic priest—«1111—
’igue ﬁgm‘e—ﬂlosgue—Plains of [Ev/12225221221—
[M’lOI;5——~ Conr/ezmzs-— Oil/IJ'SOHRZZ.

:= :3 712/110 on the rst of June, in the morn—

. e continued to travel southwards, on the

‘rrn shore of the Nile, the course of which

:1; mve Tull/(z winds in great sinuosities. Wearied
of following the heavy and slow pace of the
camels, and on the assurances which had been
given me of the safety of the roads, I went on
before with two of my attendants. After some
time had elapsed, I stopped to wait for my other
companions, but they did not make their appear-
ance. After having passed the greatest part of
this day, which was excessively hot, in looking
for them in vain, I went on to Sou/mjé, well eon-
vineed that the rest of my retinue had been at-
tacked and stripped by some band of robbers,
perhaps by those who before our arrrival at Ta/zhz
had observed and hovered about us for some time.
Soufzzzﬁj
Page-128
AND LOWER EGYPT. 115

Sou/mje’, at seven leagues distance from Tull/a,
is a large village, built at nearly a quarter of a
league from the brink of the river. Above, a
large canal receives the waters of the Nile, in
order to convey it into the plains to the westward.
The Kiasc/zef of Sou/Izzje' requested me to sup and
to sleep at his house. His politeness did not
quiet the uneasiness with which the idea of the
loss of my companions and of my baggage, in a
country where I had no resource to hope for,
cruelly tormented me.

The next morning, before daybreak, I went
out in order to cross the Nile, and to go to EC]!-
mimm, which is on the eastern shore. I learnt
from the master of the passage-boat, that my
companions and their camels had arrived there the
day before, at a very early hour. The camel-dric
vers had carried them forward by another route,
shorter than that which I had taken, and length-
ened out, by penetrating too far into the land.

On my arrival at Erlzmimm, a city built at a full
half league from the Nile, Ihastened immediately
to the convent of Italian monks for the propaga-
tion of the faith, where my companions knew we
were to go. Ifound them, in their turn, very un-
easy on my account, and just on the point of re-
crossing the riverin search of me. They gave me

I 2 an
Page-129
116 TRAVELS IN UPPER

an account of the reception which the monks had
given them ; it could not have been more unkind,
or more uncivil. It was not till after making a
great many diﬁieulties that they permitted them
to pass the night within the walls of the convent,
and it had been intimated to them to provide
themselves as well as me with another lodging.

The reception which I met with was not a whit
better. When I entered the court, in the middle
of which our baggage was thrown down, one of
the monks was walking in a gallery; he pre-
tended not to perceive me, and retired into an
apartment. lascended, and I saw a young man,
a complete monkisb doll, whose fair and fresh
complexion demonstrated that apostolic zeal did
not often expose it to the face of day. A little
beard, carefully trimmed, and arranged with uni—
formity,’shaded, without encumbering, his chin ;
every thing about him announced the most atten-
tive solicitudes of the toilet, as well as the ton of
a petit-maitre. lVIy ﬁgure, scorched by thg sun,
appeared to startle him; the wrinkles of ill-
humour furrowed his fair forehead, and a look of
disdain measured me from top to toe. The pitiful
fellow scarcely deigned to raise himself from a
sofa, on which he was rather reclined than
seated, and allowed me to stand before him; he

told me that my retinue and my baggage had been
very
Page-130
AND LO‘VER EGYPT. 117

very willingly received, and that they demanded
nothing of me for this act of hospitality. Before
I made any reply to so much generosity, Ipre-
sented to him the letter which their superior-gene-
ral had furnished me with to this convent, and by
which he recommended me to the attention of the
monks who inhabited it. He read this letter with
a smile of contempt, and told me, that not being
the superior of the house, he would go and seek
for him ; after which he returned to his sofa,
without either speaking or looking at me again.
The letter of the superior, the composition of
a true capuchin, could not, however, have been
more precise, nor more urgent. It is as follows :

“ Reverendissimo Padre Procw'aiore excellentissimo
“ m7 amico cm'issimo.

“ Esscndosi a .noi presentato l’honoratissimo
“ signor Sonnini, ofﬁciale di marina delle trupp'e
“ reggie Franccse, et avendoci notiﬁcatoil sno de-
“ siderio, che é per portarsi in queste parti dell’
“ superior Egitto, per osservare quelle antichita ed
“ insinuarli ove si trovano, e per tal’ eﬁetto aven-
“ doci anche parlato l’illustre signor Carlo Maga-
“ lon quivi mercante Francese, nostro carissimo
“ amico, e ben affetto: per cio prego lc loro

I 3 P. P. R. R.
Page-131
118 TRAVELS 1N UPPER

CC

CC

C}

6‘

‘(

6‘

CC

CC

(C

{G

6‘

CC

‘6

CC

‘5

P. P. R. R. usarle tutte quellc cortesie, ecarita al
nostra stato, e poverta seraphica, convenevoli,
e possibili, con dirigerlo ancora accio ottenga il
suo intento, et di darle il modo di presentarsi ai
capi degli Arahi, per i quali tiene lettere rac-
commandatizie da questi Sanagieck, e cio aﬁn—
ché 1i prestino tutta l’assistenza ct li diano tutte
le necessarie guide, 850. E tanto sperando dalle
loro innate bonta ed attendendone nn huon cxito,
ai loro commandi sempre pronto, ed arricom-
mandandoni alle lori sante orazioni, abbraein-
dole di vero cuore, li do la seraphica benedi-
tione e sono di sua procuraiione reverendissima
suo umillimo e devotissimo servidore,

“ Fratre GERV’ASIO D’ERMEA, Presidente.
Cairo, 12 Alarm, 1778.

“ A Rev. Pad. Gedeene 071' B1 ”Cl-67W,

‘ ‘ Presia’alz/e, Aﬂlilllilll ‘1‘,”

In

3“ Translation of this letter.

“ To Me Rigit Rcwrmd Fal/m‘, Cedar»: 9f Bavz'em, P71511167}! at

“ ﬂc/um'm.

“ M. Sonnini, a naval oﬁicer in the French king’s service,

“' having presented himself to us, and having informed us of

“ his wish to travel into the parts of Upper Egypt, to make ob-

“ servations respecting the antiquities there, M. Charles Maga-

“ lon, a French merchant in this city, our well-beloved friend,

“ having likewise addressed us to the same effect, I entreat you,

“ my reverend fathers, that you will observe towards him all

5‘ the civility, the willingness to oblige, and the charity, which

6‘ your
Page-132
AND LO\VER EGYPT. 119

In the apprehension that my patience would be
overcome, l quitted the insolent wretch with whom
I was, and I descended into the court which we
had been permitted to make our parlour. I sent
to seek for a lodging in the city, and as the search
was tedious, I remained waiting the event till the
afternoon, without any person troubling himself
about me, and without my seeing eitherthe superior,
or any one else belonging to the house. Neither
did they make their appearance, even at the mo-
ment when my goods were put upon the backs of
the camels. I left this place without seeing any
one of the monks; only I sent them a pataea, as
payment of the night’s lodging which my com-
panions had had in their house; but theydurst not

“ your situation and seraphic poverty enable you to put in
“ practice; togive him directions, likewise, with regard to the
“ manner in which he may accomplish his designs; to furnish
“ him with the means of presenting himself to the chief of the
“ Arabs, for whom he has letters of recommendation from
“ Sanagiacks, in order that he may receive from him every pos-
“ sible assistance, and that he may supply him with all the
“ guides for whom he may have occasion, &C. 8(C.

“ Hoping all this from your natural benevolence, and ex-
“ pecting a favourable issue, I am always at your commands;
“ I recommend myself to your holy prayers, I embrace you
“ with all my heart, I give you my seraphic benediction, and
“ I am of your reverence the most humble and devoted ser-

“ vant,
“ Brother GERVAISE D’EnMEA, President.

“ Cairo, Izt/z ﬂﬂzrr/z x778.”
I 4. carry
Page-133
120 TRAVELS 1N UPPER

carry their rudeness to such a length as to accept
' of it, and they ordered it to be returned to me.

If we compare the reception I met with from
these pretended missionaries, with that whichI
daily experienced from the Arabs, the Marnelues,
and other inhabitants of Egypt, we shall very
soon have the estimate of the hospitality of the
one and of the others. The stranger was admit-
ted with frankness, with cordiality, and, atathe
same time, without any interested View, into the
house, or beneath the tent of the halﬁpoliced man
of this country; and he was exposed to the hu-
miliation of being repulsed by Europeans, among
whom he might naturally expect to meet with
that courtesy which creates friends, the compa-
triots of those who meet with them in distant
lands, whatever might be the part of Europe from
whence they at ﬁrst originated. The day before,
an austere Mussulman, whose superstitious pride
regards an European as a being almost unworthy
to approach him, obliged me to take a place at
his table, and in his house; and, the next day,
the only Francs who existed in a great city, where

they were, like myself, strangers, and tolerated,
treated me with the most mortifying incivility.

But these Italian monks, of one of the orders
which slothfulness and ignorance characterize, and

0f
Page-134
AND LOWER EGYPT. 12!

of which the most piously observed regulation is
to wallow in abundance at the expense of others,
and by the abject means of collecting and begging,
degraded by their institution, were extracted for
the greater part from the lowest and most impure

dregs of the people.

After all, there were no more than three in the
house at ELI/27111721721. What I beheld of their habi-
tation gave me a grand idea of it ; I had not seen.
any thing so beautiful for a long time. Spacious,
and likewise well built, it might have passed for a
palace when compared with the houses of the
country. The employment of these men, whom
Mr. Bruce has represented as being completely
destitute ofunderstanding and knowledge *, is the
same as in Europe, to make dupes, and to amass
riches; and it is not to be doubted, that the dread
ofexposing to the clear-sighted View of Europeans,
a manner of life which has rendered them con—
temptible, was one of their principal motives for
the ungraeious reception which they gave me.

There are a considerable number of Catholic
Cophts at Eclzmimm. I was assured that they form-
ed the halfof the population of the city. It is by
distributing to them falsehoods and deeeptions, that
the menks drain them of their money. It was evi-

* Travels to the Sources of the Nile.

dent,
Page-135
1-22 TRAVELS IN UPPER

dent, however, to me, that they were not held in
very high estimation among their ﬂocks. One of
the most respectable Cophts at Ec/mzimm came to
visit me in the house which I occupied ; he Spoke
to me very contemptuous] y of the Franciscans.
They had too much money, he told me; it was this
which made them disdain to receive me; at another
time they would have welcomed me with eagerness.
The same Egyptian complained loudly oftheir ava-
ricions spirit. The poor were neglected by them,
and the rich beheld them incessantly at their doors.
I was likewise in formed that they made heavy com?
plaints of the English traveller Bruce, who, having
made some stay with them, had not apparently eon»
sented to satisfy their love of money, by paying
them with heaps ofgold for a venal hOSpitality.

The Catholics had, like those ofTaiz/(z, a cure of
theirnation. He alsohad passedten years at Rome,
and spoke Italian well, and Latin tolerably. But,
less artful than the missionaries, he was in great
distress. Jealous of his situation, ofthe conﬁdence
with which he inspired his compatriots, and the—
practice of physio to which he had applied himself,
these evangelical men tormented him to the utmost
oftheir power; they raised persecutionsagainst him;
and faithful observers Of.Y€7'ﬂP/7lj6 charity, they did
not permit a single opportunity of defaminghim to
escape, and ofdoing him all the injury they could.

If
Page-136
AND LOWER EGYPT. £23

If the houses of Ec/zmimm were of a bettercon-
struction, this would bea very beautiful city. The
streets are broad and straight. This disposition of
streets, without which no city can pretend to be
remarkable, is wanting, generally speaking, to the
other cities of Egypt, for the streets are very nar-
row, crooked, and badly levelled. Butthe houses
of this place, like those of the other considerable
towns in the southern part of Egypt, are built
with bricks, not burnt, but simply baked with clay,
and dried in the sun. These bricks are cemented
with earth. There results from this kind of ma-
son-work a grayish tint spread over all the build-
ings, and which presents a dull and gloomy ap-
pearance. if there were to happen an alteration
in the seasons, and were it to rain in these coun-
tries, as in the part of Egypt which borders upon
the sea, the houses would be seen to melt away,
and fall down. Those of persons of note, from
their employments or their riches, are more solid,
being constructed with bricks half burnt. The
walls are adorned with several rows oflarge earthen
pots, of different forms and sizes, which serve as
an asylum to pigeons ; and almost alt the‘houses
have, besides, their roofs surmounted with a pigeon-
house, a sort of square and spacious tower.

A chain of mountains, of steep and barren rock,
encircles the city to the eastward. It reﬂects the
' heat
Page-137
j24 TRAVELS IN UPPER

to such a degree, as to render it sometimes in»
supportable. I never felt it so vioient as on the
day after my arrival at Ec/zmimm; that is to say,
the 3d of the month of June. At four in the at-
ternoon, the mercury in Réaumur’s thermometer,
placed in the shade, rose to 36°. The wind was
to the north-east; but although it blew forcibly,
it heated the air instead of cooling it, the sandy
plains which it travelled over having caused it to
contract an intense heat.

Panopolis and C/zemmis are the same city, under
two names, of which the one is Greek, the other
Egyptian; and the Egyptian name subsists still at
this day, in that of Ec/mzinmz 4‘. 'Remains of the
ancient city are still to be seen to the eastward, and
near the enclosure of the modern town. I observ-
ed there an enormous mass, consisting ofa single
stone. On one of its sides a Greek inscription was
engraved in rude characters. It is almost entirely
cffaced, and i could not distinguish clearly upon
it any thing but the word TIBERIO. A portion
of this remarkable stone, and consequently of the
inscription, is hidden in the earth. That which
appears above it is seventeen feet in length, eight

* Danville. Memoir upon the Difference of Latitudes and
Longitudes between Alexandria and Sienna; Memoirs of the
Academy of Inscriptions and Belles Lettres, vol. xxix.

and
Page-138
AND LO‘WER EGYPT. 125

and a halfin breadth, and four in thickness. Un-
derneath the uncovered part of this large lump
the earth is dug up; this permits you to see per-
fectly the paintings with which the surface which
fronts the ground is covered. You distinguish
there, in the middle, a sphere, with the twelve
signs of the zodiac. The colour which has best
withstood time and devastation, is an azure blue;
the other colours are scarcely perceptible. This
stony and white mass is of a calcareous nature; it
contains a great quantity of fossile shell-work; it
is the same stone with the rocks ofthe neighbour.
ing mountains; but exposed to the air for such a
length of time, it has acquired a hardness which
that of the rock has not when ﬁrst extracted from
the quarries.

By the side of this block, you see another less
remarkable; this is almost entirely covered by the
earth. The women of this country have formed
a cavity in it, which corresponds to a little aque-
duct. It is there that by secret and natural irriga-
tionsthey pretend to procure fecundity.

A little farther off, the ruins of an ancient edi-
ﬁce present themselves to observation; but you
can no longer distinguish any thing of the general
design; all is overthrown. Immense stones, re-
sembling those which I have just mentioned, dis-

Play
Page-139
126 TRAVELS IN L‘Pmrt

play still the remains ot‘hieroglyphirs and of paints
ings.

The cure of the Catholic (’lophts had the comma
plaisance to point out to me the curiosities of
Ec/zmimm and its environs. On our return from
one of these excursions, this good man conducted
me to his habitation. His apartment was very
small, simple but neat; he had collected there
several morsels of antiquity, which he regretted
he had it not in his power to oﬁ‘er me, having
promised a Venetian merchant, of Cairo, to send
them him. In truth, he possessed nothing of
very great value. A large number of fragments
of emeralds, pierced into amulets, some idols of
porcelain, another of alabaster, but completely
worn away, and a ﬁgure of wood, of two feet
high, composed the whole collection of this re-
spectable Copht, who, while I was in his habita-
tion, loaded me with civilities.

Plate XXIX. represents the ﬁgure in wood, in
the highest preservation, among all those which
the Copht had collected. On some places of this
ﬁgure there were still to be seen the remains of
the painting with which it had been covered. It
is a player on an instrument, a trumpeter; but
the ﬁgure is not Egyptian, it has a relation to

the Greek or Roman customs; and there is
every
Page-140
Q9

 

 

__i

. ﬁ/ﬂ XV

 

 

' I)
t'l/lll/ 11/ (/m' INN/Ill]!

ﬁll/yhn/ [J 1 JV; A‘K‘uldlr ‘
Page-141

Page-142
AND LO\VER EGYPT. IE7

every reason to presume that it owes its origin to
that period when the Romans were the masters of

Egypt.

An ancient mosque is still the object of the ve-
neration of the Christians, who pretend that it
was formerly one of their churches. The Cophts
allege that it is more than a thousand years old,
which is a falsehood. In reality, the ediﬁce, to
speak truth, is fallingin every part; but the build-
ing, as little durable as that of more modern houses,
Sufﬁciently demonstrates that this is not the work-
manship ofa period when ediﬁces possessed greater
solidity. rThe temple is spacious; you enter it on
several sides; it is enlightened all around by a line
ofeontiguous windows. The interior, resembling
that of all the mosques in the same country, is an
immense empty and naked enclosure; but you
look with admiration on the small pillars ofgranite
which support it, and which were extracted from

the ruins of Punopolis.

The lands cultivated in the environs ofEc/zmiumz
are in great reputation for fertility. They produce
the ﬁnest corn in Egypt, sugar canes, and cotton,
which serves for the material of a manufaetory of
coarse cloths. Gardens, where different species of
plants grow under the shade ofthe fruit-trees, fur-

nish a copious supply for the support oflife, and an
agreeable
Page-143
128 TRAVELS IN UPPER

agreeable shelter from the heat of the sun. The
date and palm trees of Thcbai's are to be found
there in equally great numbers. The apple-trees
produce fruits larger, and not so bad as those of
Tab/(z ; but the pastécas are small, and of a very
inferior quality to those which I had eaten at Siam.
The markets are ﬁlled with a prodigious quantity
of melons (agour), amongst which some are to be
seen of a monstrous size. These fruits do not as-
sume any regular form ; some are round, others
oval, and some are of a small size, and very much
lengthened out like a large cucumber. Finally,
the melons of this Species are, generally speaking,
of a very bad quality; their pulp is insipid, and
not very sweet. It is very rare to meet with such
as are even middling, and you never eat any that
deserve the epithet good. Nevertheless there is a
great consumption of them: the people of Upper
Egypt ﬁnd in these melons a nourishment at a
low price, which abates thirst, and the sharpness
of the humours produced by the heat of the cli-
mate; but the (ﬂeet of good pastécas is far more

certain, and far more agreeable.

The city of Eclzmz'mm contains, like all those of
Egypt, a crowd ofpriestcsses devoted to the worship
ot'a disgusting voluptuousness: they are accord-
ingly dedicated to the sensuality of the grossest of
mankind. The pencil ofa magical style has de-

pietcd,

I
Page-144
AND LOWER EGYPT.‘ 129

picted, in some celebrated works, the graces and
the seductive manoeuvres of these nymphs of plea-
sure. But however brilliant the colouring with
which such a picture may be animated, rigid truth

passes the sponge over it and wipes it away.

In reality, although it may be true, as has been
said, that in all the places of any note in Egypt
there are a considerable number ot'courtesans, it is
false, that, destined to the pleasure oftravellers,
these last are under an obligation to pay them;
that they have been bequeathed to prostitution by
charitable men; that the messengers of gallantry
conduct thetraveller to the temple where the young
priestesses so voluntarily take their stations. The
panegyric which has been made on their charms,
their easy shape, their elegant hips, or the delight-
ful tapering oftheir waist, in a word, on their desire
to please only, and to render you sensible to their
attractions, is altogether a series of errors; but
what is not less false, is the kind ofgencrosity with
which an attempt has been made to honour the so
little praiseworthy conduct of these girls, by assert~
ing that, contented with being beloved, and pre~
ferred to their companions, they will not accept of
any thing from the purse of the traveller.

The miserable wretches who are to be seen in
the public places of the cities of Egypt, make :1
VOL. 111. K. trade,
Page-145
130 TRAVELS IN UPPER

trade, as well as our prostitutes of Europe, ofsell-

ing the appearance of pleasure. They endeavour

to attract the men, whom they allure to the utmost

oftheir power, extract from them as much as they
can, and often strip them with as great address as

our courtesans. On the other hand, you will seek

in vain among those ot'Upper Egypt for the ravish-

ing details of beauty which have very unjustly been
ascribed to them. You only behold there wretched
creatures, ugly, for the mostpart poorly drest, and
repelling, by the excess oftheir effrontery, so much
the more remarkable in these countries, that they
are the only women who walk with their faces un-
covered, and who speak to men in public; more
disgusting still on account of the numberless and
frightful diseases with which they are infected ; in
a word, uniting all the horrors of libertinism with-
out possessing one of its attractions. Such is the
real portrait ofthese women, who cannot have any

allurements but in the eyes of brutality. May

those young men, who, seduced perhaps by the
deceitful picture which has been given of the Egyp~

tian Venuses, may desire an opportunity to pay
adoration to them, have no cause of regret. They.
would only ﬁnd in them digusting objects, in com-

parison with whom the greater part of the courte-

sans of Europe might pass for divinities.

In
Page-146
A'ND LOWER EGYP’I‘. 131*

In order to do away all the false impressions
which mayhave been made ﬁom the perusal oft
forged accounts, I must not omit to say, that asso-'
ciations of women of the town in Egypt, fan from‘
lfeing a legal establishment, 15 not so much as to-
lerated; The comm‘andants of the cities banish
all those who have any complaints lodged against
them. I have even seen Ifiasc/chs of a more se-
vere cast; who would not permit one of these mi-
serable creatures to come within” the bounds of
their jurisdiction.

On my return one day from‘the gardens of
Eclzmz'mm, Ifound a chrysomal attached to the tuft
of my cap. She stuck so closely, that I could not
tear it off, but at the expense of its tarsus which
remained there. The length of this insect is ﬁve
lines and a half, and its breadth rather more than
two lines. Its eyes are large and elliptical;
the upper part of its head is pricked with very
small points, as well as the corselet, which is bor-
dered. There is an cscutcheon between the sheaths.
Rows of little points, among which you see others

scattered irregularly, are between the cases which
cover the wings.

The colours of this chrysomal cannot be more
rich. The upper part is of a shining green mixed
with a dazzling gold colour; underneath, the

K 2 golden
Page-147
:3: TRAVELS IN UPPER

golden green is shaded with brown. The large
eyes are globes of the purest gold, the brilliancy of
which is still heightened by a black stripe which
crosses them in the middlelengthwise. The thighs
and the legs are of the same mixed colour with the
under part of the body; to conclude, the tarsus and
the antenna: are black.

The Nile, in the neighbourhood of Eclmzimm,
furnishes ﬁsh in great abundance. The species
which 1 saw there most commonly, is the Imyalte,
which grows to a very large size without being
much the better it.

“* Look back to the close of vol. ii.
Page-148
AND LOWER EGYPT. 133

CHAP. XLV.

Italian 77702sz - Cof'lzlislz czzré~Fxcessive [zeal--
Barolls—Dounz—[llonks of Fmscﬁout—Arabian
prince— Errscnont—An/lﬂn’s [1012; pm in requisi-
tion—Justice 'wllialz tlze Arabian prince orderrrl 10
[73 (lane aim—Intolerance on llze part of a [llama-
Inc—Deparlme from Sana—Rafi: of [rasie’cas—n
Crocodile—H022, Dioxpolis-parva—Kafr Essa'izd
-—-Iiaf/s of earl/zenware—Birds—Dogs—Dan-
gerous passage of flu: Ni/e— ﬂccla’eut *wlzic/z befall
zlze author’s [loaf—El Bal), anoilzer dangerous

place.

aroma I quittcd Eclmzimm, I was obliged to have

a moment of correspondence with the Italian
missionaries, of whom I had never once thought,
and whom I had not seen all the time of my re-
sidence. The master of the boat, who had car-
ried me to Slow, had returned to Cairo, from
‘whencche was to take in a cargo for Upper Egypt.
He had promised to bring me whatever might be
intrusted to his conveyance for my use, from the.
country of Francs. We had agreed that the con-
vent of monks at Eclzminzm should be the place at
which he might ﬁnd me, or at least gain intelli~
gence respecting me. I wrote then to the superior,
K 3 that
Page-149
I34. TRAVELS IN UPPER

that I expected a piece of service from him which
I should be certain of receiving from the meanest
offal/4725, that of sending the “is to Ezra-flout,
whither I intended to proceed. I added, thatI
would not fail to make known in Europe the
shameful indignity of his conduct toward me, and
to conﬁrm the bad opinion which Mr. Bruce had
already disseminated there respecting their house.
:My letter was written in Latin ; he replied to me
in the same language; but in that tone of insipi-
dity, ofbaseness and perﬁdy, which is the true cha-
racteristic of monks. His reply was conceived in
these terms;

“ jIc/zmim, die 77220. Jam-2'.

“ Cum venerit conductor navis, illico mittarn
F" Farsehutum, quia servire suze illustrissima do-
“ minationi, non servitutem dico, sed honorem.
“ Quéd autem sna illustrissima dominatio non
“ fuerit reeepta illo honore, qui dehebatur suae
“ conditioni, non fuit ex parte mea inurbanitas,
“ sed easus et error, dc quo errore veniam petii
“ coram interprete illustrissimae suae dominiatio-
“ nis; q'iam= quod impetraverim, Sperare me ju-
.“ bent sua innata Clementia, ct generositas; quod
f“ autem non adierim in propria persona suam

“ illustrissimam
Page-150
AND LOWER EGYPT. 135

“ illustrissimam dominationem, me confusi'o faciei
“ mesa prohibebat; interim gratiosis suis favori-
“ bus me perennice commendans persist’o illustris<
“ Simec dominationis suze humillimus in Christ‘o

“ servus,
“ Fr. Jossruus A BAVARIA *2”

If I had reason to complain of men who are fit
for no good purpose, to whatever part of the World
they are transported, and from whom I might,
nevertheless, have expected the simple marks ofa

* Translation.

“ Ari/mini, {lie 7r]; 4f jubi.
“ As soon as the master of the boat arrives here, I will send
“ him without delay to Farschout, because to serve your most
“ illustrious lordship is, I will not say a duty, but an honour.
“ If your most illustrious lordship was not received with the
“ honours due to your condition 1", it did not proceed from un-
“ politeness on my part, but from chance, and a mistakej,
“ for which I have demanded pardon before the interpreter bf
“ his most illustrious lordship; and his innate goodness, as
“ well as generosity. will not permit me to doubt that I have ob.
“ tained it. If I did not come to present myself before your
“ most illustrious lordship, the confusion with which my coun-
“ tenance ought to be covered, deprived me of thehonour or
“ the power of doing so. However, recommending myself
“ earnestly to your favour, I am invariably of your most illus-

“ trious lordship, the very humble servant in Jesus Christ, -

“ Brother Joszru of Bavaria.”

1- I was not received at all.
,1 It was impossxblc for me to comprehend or to imagine a mistaké in a

thing so clear and so simple. . . '
K 4 cmhty’
Page-151
136 TRAVELS IN UPPER t

civility, which it was not my intention to receiv
gratis, I cannot suﬁ’ieiently commend the complai-
sanee and attention of the Cophtish priest, who
served as the pastor of the Catholics at Em’mzinmz.
He did not fail to visit me tin ieea day, and to seek
with eagerness every opportunity ofbeing useful to
me. This contrast of sentiment and of conduct
has produced in my soul impressions altogether op-
posite; gratitude and friendship for the one, and
the most decided contempt for the other.

The honest Copht would not separate himself
from me, 01: the day of my departure from E5]:-
mimm, the 9th of June, till the moment whenI
embarked to cross to the western shore of the Nile,
and reeommenee by land myjourney to Fm-sclzoui.
The beat all this day was excessive : the wind was
violent, but its impetuosity only served to ﬁll the
atmosphere with clouds ofdust, and we were afraid
to inhale the impetuous and inﬂamed blast ; men
and animals were suffocated, they could not pro-
ceed without difﬁculty, and all sought for a shelter
fromthis temperature of ﬁre. Beside, we xvere,to-
wards the middle of the day, the only creatures
who were travelling, and we did not see a single
person on the road we pursued.

We made the tour of the city of Girge’, the ca-

pital of Upper Egypt, and arrived at 307753 to-

wards
Page-152
ItND LO'WER EGYPT. I37

wards ﬁve in the evening; that is' to say, at the
moment when the heat: less overwhelming, might
have rendered the journey ne-re supportable. A
Copht ong/hm'mm had furnished me with a letterto
his brother-in-law, a rich inhabitant of Bardis.
We were received with very great civility.
,
The modern town of Bm‘dz's, situated at nearly
eight leagues to the southward of Ec/zmimm, has
nothing remarkable in it. Danville places in its
environs the ancient city of Ptolenm'z‘r-Hermii, the
largest ofTheba'is, and of which the particular go-
vernment had for its model, according to Strabo,
the form of the republican governments of Greece.
The plains which I had just traversed have the
smiling aspect of cultivation and abundance; but
when you cast your eyes on the eastern shore, at
some distance above [Ea/12711271771, you are struck by a
truly frightful opposition: you see nothing but
sterile mountains, rocks piled upon rocks, the un-
inhabitable abode of barrenness and horror.

The quantity of palm-trees of Theba't's is still
greater on the south than to the north of Bardis.
The plains are shaded with them, and they form,
with the numerous date-trees, little woods, which
enchant the sight. These dam/13 are a productive
property ot‘thc inhabitants of those cantons. When
I passed that way it was the cpocha of the gather-

ing-
Page-153
138 TRAVELS IN UPPER.

ing~in of the fruits: at the entrance of each vil-
lage, large heaps of them were covered with the
broad leaves of the palm-tree; and it was to these
kind of markets, in the open air, that the people
resorted to supply themselves with the necessary
provision, or to buy them by retail.

I arrived on the afternoon of the 10th at Fars-
(Jzoul, where another colony of Italian monks was
planted. l was provided with the samerecommend—
ations to them, which had been of so little use to
me at Ec/zmimm, and I hada mind to know ifthey
would produce the same effect at Fursr/zout. I
had reason to expect it there, after what I had
heard Mr. Bruce say of these monks. They
were the same men who had refused him, with
great barbarity, on his return from Smmmr, a
pound of rice and a morsel of bread. I left my
companions, with the cattle, without the city, and
3 advanced by myself towards the house of the
monks. A servant refused to give me admittance,
under pretence that the father superior was asleep.
I urged him to take charge, at least, of the lEtter
from the superior-general of Cairo; he would not
undertake to deliver it. ‘vVearied out with so many
evasions, I tore the letter from his hands, and, ﬁlled
with indignation at an endless repetition ofmonko
ish rebuffs, I retired in a rage. l sent one of the
countrymen, who followed me, to inquire for a

lodging
Page-154
AND LOWER EGYPT. 139

lodging in the city. We continued more than
three hours waiting for him, exposed to excessive
heat, and the dust scattered through the air; and
ﬁnding that he did not return, I sent to request of
the monks, by means of my interpreter, that they
would at least point out a house to which we might
retire. The superior came with the interpreter
to entreat that I would accept of his. I did not
refuse, because it entered into my plans to pay for
the lodging which I might ﬁnd there; but I must
say, to the credit of the monks of Fm'sclzozzt, that
they at least displayed to me the exterior of cour-
teous, but perhaps interested hospitality.

There are only two priests in this house; but it
could containa much greater number; for al-
though it is not so vast as that of Eclzmizmn, it is
however spacious, handsome, and commodious. I
found there a Christian merchant of Cairo, who
bore the same name with the borrowed one under
which I disguised my Cbristimzig ; he was called
ﬂfaZ/iim Yousef. I had seen him at Cairo at the
house ot~ the Arab prince Dervisc/z, sovereign of
Fay-sellout, and of several cantons tothewcstwurd,
when he accompanied, with his father-in-law, Is-
ma'izz Abou Ali, the victorious Mourat Bey. This
merchant possessed the conﬁdence of Der-visc/z,
and offered to conduct me to him.

The
Page-155
‘140 TRAVELS IN UPPER

The next day I went with Mz/lz'im Yousefto the
house of the prince, which was very inferior to that
of the pretended mmdimn/s. He reeollected me
immediately, as hax ing asked of him at Cairo some
assistance toward the journey which i was on the
point of undertaking. He rcCcived me very p0—
litely, and made me the most gracious offers. But
he counselled me, like ail those with whom I held
any conversation, to embark on the Nile, and to
abandon the mode of travelling by land, which I
had adopted, because the roads were infested by
highwayan in great numbers. On withdrawing
1 gave him to understand that i had some bottles
ofliqnors to present him with, and thatI would
send them to him the next day. He called me
back, and although he was just on the point of
mounting his horse, he begged me not to delay
making him a present which flattered him ex-
tremely, and he promised me that he would not
go out till he had received them.

The S'c/zeicl‘ Demise/1 was the son of Arlen/ram, a
prince ot the Arabs, Celebrated in Egypt For his
intimacy with Ali Bey. He vas young, very fat,
and of a ﬁgure w hich display ed goodness and mild-
ness. He had a great relish for sensual pleasures.
‘Women and strong liquors formed his prevailing
tastes; he was withal, of all the Arabs, the gen-
tlest and most courteous.

The
Page-156
AND LO\VER EGYPT.‘ I41

The little city in which Demise/z exercises his
sovereignty, is badly built, and it has the appear—
ance of wretchedncss. It is situated very far up
the country. The Nile is at the distance of two
full leagues from it. Between it and the river you
ﬁnd a town called Bay/021m, where a Kiasr/ze re-
sides. The port of these two places is a village,
which is named Safari. In all probability, Fars-
c/zout occupies the place of Amxtlms,an axﬁient city
of Egypt, near which there was a consecrated
wood. This was the second city thus called; ano—
ther of the same name occupied the site of Das—
cﬁour, a little to the south of Sal'kam.

Determined to follow the advice which I re-
ceived on all hands, I renounced my plan of pur-
suing by land the course of the Nile, and I made
an agreement with the master of a kanja to con—
vey me to the domains of [main Abe” Ali. But
as I had been equally forewarned that the naviga-
tion of the Nile was very little more secure than
the roads, I left with the monks of Farsclzout a part
of my eﬁects; for, higher up, the country was ﬁlled

with robbers.

I was given to understand, that, notwithstanding
my bargain with the mi: of the boat, the Kiascizef
of Barjozzm had seized upon my vessel for his own

private use. Authority in the hands of persons
unworthy
Page-157
“,2 TRAVELS m UPPER

unworthy of it, produces the same abuses, leads to
the same excesses; we see it takes the same course
in all the countries which are exposed to its ca-
price and its fury. The desolating system of re-
quisitions, and particularly of arbitrary arrest, was
exercised in Egypt with an artt'nlness and a blind
violence which would have put to shame our most
furious revolutionists and our most skilful (le-

spoilers.“

I ﬂew to Dar-visciz, in order to solicit his inter-
position. I did not ﬁnd him at home, and went
to seek for him in one of his gardens. He was;
there alone, underthe foliage ofsometnfted orange-
trees, and on the brink ot’little streamlets, which
rendered a perfumed shade still cooler. When at
the greatest distance the prince perceived me; he“
arose immediately, and stood upright; when 71‘
quitted him he did the same; and, among the
Orientalists, this is the greatest as well as the most
uncommon mark of respect. He immediately sent
one rt' his people to the Kiasr/zqfof BasjozzmxHis
message had all the success which I could have ex-
pected from it, and the boat was restored to my
disposal. i remained halfan hour in conversation
with the prince. During my visit he made me
eat some delicious grapes, and drink lemonade. At
the moment when I was taking leave of him, he‘-
asked of me a handkerchief, some medicines; and"‘

1 ' some
Page-158
AND LOWER EGYPT. :43

some Cairo brandy. I sent them all some hours
afterwards.

In return for these slight presents, Dervisc/z gave
the necessary orders, that my journey might be ac-
complished with safety; he furnished me with let-
ters to several Arabian Sc/zez'cl’s of the number of his
friends; he insisted that one of his servants should
accompany me, and commanded provisions of
every kind to he carried on board my boat.

On the 15th of June I left the convent of Far:-
about. During the four days which I passed there,
I had great reason to be satisfied with the civilities
and the accommodating disposition of the two;
missionaries who inhabited it. After having stig- .
matized those ofEchmimm, it gives me pleasure to
render justice to the courteous and friendly con-
duct of those of Farsc/zozzt, and I could wish that
both of them were within reach of hearing this

frank declaration of the opposite sentiments with
which they inspired me.

Immediately on my arrival upon the shore of the
Nile, I ordered my goods to be carried on board,
and I embarked myself. The boat was just on the
point ofheing pushed off, when a Mamcluc who
commanded at 812126! underthe Kiasc/zef of Brzsjoum,
made us get on shore, and ordered that our bag-

gage

/
Page-159
144. TRAVELS IN UPPER

gage should likewise be landed. It was in vain
for me to oppo:e with all my might this seizure:
the sturdy NIameluc, who \\ as surrounded by seve-
ral soldiers, would listen to nothing. The boat, he
said, was for the service of the Kiasc/ch, and no
person ought to dare to divert it from its desti-
nation. I displayed to him the letters of the Boys;
he replied, that he laughed at all the Revs who
commanded at Cairo whilst he was master at Sa/zet.
Not having it in my power to resist the violence
ofthis man, who, like all those to whom power is
ill adapted, believed himself a great personage, I
ordered my camels to be brought to re—couvey my
baggage to Farm/201w. During the time that they
were occupied in loading them, the Mamcluc
called my interpreter, and desired him to propose
to me that I should give him a chequin, and that
for this consideration he would leave me the boat.
I ordered him to he told that I would not even
give him a medina. He reduced his demand to
a pataca, the half of which I likewise refused to
give; at last he begged me as a favour to make
him a present ofa quarter ofa pataca, about four-
teen pence. In order to avoid any longer delays,
I paid it to him, and the vile slave received it as
the price of an imposition practised upon me, and
which he had calculated according to the import-

ance of his government.

A great
Page-160
AND LOVV’ER EGYPT. 145

A great part ofthe day had elapsed; it was im-
possible for us to depart, and we passed the night
in our boat opposite to 80726;. The Kiaschef had
been informed of the manner in which his repre-
sentative had oppressed me. He sent another
ofﬁcer to reprimand him, to oblige him to restore
the money which he had extorted, and to make
his apologies. In truth, he came at night into
my K’zzny'a. His air was as humble as it had before
been insolent. He assured me that the scene of
the morning was the effect of drunkenness. I
dismissed him very well contented, for I allowed
him to carry off the fourteen pence.

I was not yet freed from difﬁculties: sur-
rounded with men, greedy, deceitful, and disho-
nest, the traveller sees them spring up under his
feet in these distant cantons. The reis, who till
then had been a peaceable spectator, wished also
to have his turn. He raised his demand; he
played oft‘a thousand quirks, and it was not till a
long time after the rising of the sun that we were
able to quit the shore of Salzet. The weather was

calm; the sailors were obliged to drag the boat
along with a rope.

We mct with several ﬂoats formed of pastécas
which were descending the Nile. These fruits are
extremely common in Thebai‘s, and to avoid the

VOL. 111, L trouble
Page-161
£46 I‘RAVLLS m UPPER

trouble of loading boats with them, they collect
them in rafts, which float very well, and of which
each piece is destined for food. When these ﬂoats
or rafts have only to cross the river, they do not
make them very large, and a man swims across to
the opposite shore dragging them after him. It
they have a long voyage to perform, they are
made larger and towed along by a boat.

The ﬁrst crocodile which I saw in Egypt, made
its appearance at some distance beyond Sil/IKI.
He was immoveable in the middle of the river;
his head alone was visible above the water. In
proportion as you ascend the Nile, these frightful
animals become more common. They are formi-
dable to the inhabitants. In some places they
are obliged to form, even in the river, an enclo-
sure of stakes and faggots, that the women, in
drawing water from it, may not have their legs
carried oil“ by the crocodiles.

A little village, opposite to which we stopped,
points out under the barbarous name of flay, th
site of Diospo/is, which has been surnamed the
[it/16, to distinguish it from the two other Dioxpolis,
which are likewise to be found in Egypt. [17026
occupies still the eminence upon which, historians
tell us, the ancient city was built. Rubbish, large
bricks, stones still larger, the remains of a has-

f 11011,
Page-162
AND LOXVER EGYPT. I47

tion, and ﬁnally an arcade which forms the en:
trance of a subterranean conduit, are the sole
traces of the antique labours which subsist there.

From thence we ascended up to Kafr Essaiad,
another village of little importance, situated on
the eastern shore of the Nile, in one of those in-
tersections left by the mountains of rocks which
border that shore, to the cultivation and for the
habitation of men. \Ve saw descending a flotilla
of rafts formed of earthen-ware, which they were

conveying to Cairo.

Several flights of birds passed near us: I distin~
guished the plover with an ash-coloured ring
round its neck, herons, percnopters, rocks, and.
ltites ofthe same species with those which by their
number, the dull colour of their plumage, and
their morirnful and plaintive cries, render the si-
tuation ofthe cities ongypt more gloomy instead
of enlivening them. These form themselves into
companies on the banks of the river, and remain
almost immoveable during a part of the day,
without doubt waiting for the ﬁshes of passage.
Towards night I saw a ﬂight of wild geese.

I observed that the inhabitants of these higher
countries of Egypt kept a kind of dogs very much

resembling the shepherd’s dog. Their voice is ex-
L e tremely
Page-163
32.6 TRAVELS IN UPPER,

tremely weakened, they could with difﬁculty bark.
Such is, as it is well known, the eﬁ‘ect produced
upon dogs by the inﬂuence of very hot climates.

The wind had been contrary to us the whole
day. In the evening it became favourable, and
we proﬁted by it to continue our voyage. The

night being very dark, we stopped at an isle of
sand waiting for the rising of the moon.

Below this island, the Nile forms a large sinuo-
sity; the current undermines the western shore,
which is steep in this broad angle, and detaches
from it enormous masses of marshy earth. The
frEquent fall of such masses as these renders the

passage of this place very dangerous for boats,
which run the risk of being sunk by them. We

had got clear ofit without any accident, although
every instant, both before and behind us, several
large pieces fell, separated from the shore. I con-
gratulated myself on having escaped a danger,
against which we had not. to struggle; but we
found ourselves exposed aniew, and in a very dis-

agreeable manner, owing to the improvidence of
the boat’s crew.

The rez's and the sailors were asleep upon the
beach; Ihad passed halfofthe night in watching,
and I composed myself to sleep, after giving the

watch
Page-164
AND LOWER EGYPT. :49

watch to two of my companions, but they too had
sunk into slumber. The l’mzja, badly fastened
against the shore, broke loose, and the current car-
ried it away with the utmost rapidity. We were
all asleep; not one of us, not even the boatmen,
stretched upon the sand, perceived our manner of
sailing down at the mercy of the current. After
having ﬂoated with the stream for the space of a
good league, the boat, hurried along with violence,
struck with a terrible crash against the shore, pre-
cisely a little below the place from whence the
greatest part of the loosened earth fell down.

Awakened by this furious shock, we were not
slow in perceiving the critical situation into which
we were thrown. The l’any'a, repelled by the land,
which was cut perpendicularly, and driven to-
wards it again by the violence of the current,
turned round in every direction, and dashed
against the shore in such a manner as excited an
apprehension that it would be broken to pieces.
The darkness of the night, the frightful noise
which the masses separated from the shore spread
far and wide as they fell into a deep water; the
bubbling which they excited, the agitation of
which communicated itself to the boat, rendered
our awakening a very melancholy one.

I. 3 There
Page-165
150 TRAVELS IN UPP'ER

There was no time to be lost; I made my com»

panions take the oars, which the darkness pre-
vented us from ﬁnding so soon as we could have
wished; I sprung to the helm, and, encouraging
my new and very inexperienced sailors, we sue—
ceeded in making our escape from a repetition of
shocks, by which we must all, at length, have
inevitably perished; for scarcely had we gained,
after several efforts, the middle ofthe river, when
a piece of hardened mud, of an enormous size,
tumbled down at the very spot we had just
quitted, and which must, had we been but a few
minutes later, have carried us to the bottom.

We crossed to the opposite shore, where we
fastened the boat, as well as we could, waiting
till the daylight should discover to us where we
were, and enable us to recover our Evyptian
sailors. But it was not long before we perceived
them; not seeing the boat, they had thrown them-
selves into the river to swim, and had gained the
shore in pursuit of it, till they got intelligence
respecting our fate. The idea of the dangers to
which they had exposed us, was too recent not to
procure for them some effects of our resentment;
and I could not prevent my companions from be-
labouring them soundly with the very same oars
of which they had been obliged to make so un-

pleasant
Page-166
AND LOWER EGYPT. I§I

pleasant an use. The refs, who was a little be-
hind, hearing his boat’s company roaring aloud,
took to his heels, and it was impossible to catch
him. The day~appeared, and we set sail, in order
to pass once more that perilous spot, where the
force of the current overthrows the barriers which
the land opposes to it on the western side. In
front of a little village we saw the master seated
on the brink of the river. We landed, in order to
make him embark; but still in apprehension of
having his share of a correction which he well
deserved, he made the best of his way off. Igave
orders that he should be pursued, and he was
conducted, or rather carried back, to the boat.

\Ve again set sail. A violent wind from the
north-east, which blew in impetuous squalls, car-
ried us to Dena’em, the evening ofthe 17th.

At half a league before Derm’em, the bed of the
Nile is extremely narrow, and one of its banks is
strewed with stones. The Egyptian mariners call
this place El 80/), the port. This is one of the
most dangerous passes of the navigation of the

river, and the inhabitants do not fail to address a
prayer to Heaven before they undertake it.

L 4
Page-167
L3

TRAVELS IN UPPER

CHAP. XLVI.

Tentyris-Dende7'a—Emir—Temple of Isis—De-
scription of several extraordinary ﬁgures—Tro-
elzi/us of tlze mzcients—Colours—Egyptian village
[mill upon t/ze ancient temple—Eﬂorts of barba-
rism to destroy it—Vigilmzee in tire boat—Fruits
—-—Situ(ztion of Dezza’enz.

TENTYRIS, or Teutym, was formerly a celebrated
city of Egypt. It gave its name to the norm:
Tentyritus, of which it was the capital. Its en-
closure was extensive, and its magnificence caused
it to be regarded as one of the most considerable
cities. Isis and Venus were honoured with a
public worship there, and in this place each of
these divinities had a temple. But what rendered
it particularly remarkable, was the enmity which
the inhabitants of it have sworn to the crocodile,
and the continual wars which they waged with
those hideous reptiles. The Ten/yrite pursued the
crocodile into the water, overtook him, sprung on
his back, and forced a stick into his mouth, by
means of which, as with a bit, he conducted him
to the shore, and there put him to death.

Near
Page-168
AND LOWER EGYPT. 153

Near the ruins of Terzlyris is a large village,
which has preserved nothing of the splendour of
the ancient city but its name of Den/dam, which
recalls something of its antique origin. It is built
at some distance from the western shore of the
Nile, at the extremity of a very fertile plain.
The orchards surrounding it, the fruits of which,
such as oranges, lemons, pomegranates, grapes,
and ﬁgs, are exquisite, render it delightful, and
procure there a delicious coolness in the midst of
countries so scorched. A forest of palm and of
fruit trees, of which the ancients have made men-
tion, exists still in its environs, and supplies the
greatest part of the fuel consumed in Egypt.

A prince of the Arabs, with the title of emir,
governs Denrkm as sovereign, and the country
which surrounds it; however, he pays tribute to
the beys of Cairo. I presented myself at the man-
sion of the emir: he was very badly lodged: the
people who surrounded him had the worst appear-
ance, and every thing in his house announced,
not so much an agreeable simplicity as a wretched
penury. The prince was habited in the same
manner with his subjects, in a long black frock,
and he was distinguished from them only by his
turban. But what really distinguished him, was
the excellent mind with which he was endowed,

and which rendered him far superior to the other
powerful
Page-169
£54 TRAVELS IN UPPER

powerful men of Egypt. After having delivered
to him the letters of the beys, and that of his

neighbour the Arab Mimic/1', Demise/2, I met with
the most gracious reception.

The cmir did not wait till I mentioned to him
my desire of visiting the remains of Tang/'25; he
prevented me, in offering me the means of going
thither in safety. He spoke to me of several Eu-
ropeans whom he had seen at his house, and I per-
ceived that he Spoke ofthem with pleasure. The ab-
surd opinion generally diffused over Egypt, respect-
ing the motive ofthe researches oftravellers, did not
enter into his mode of thinking. The Francs were
not, in his eyes, magicians; at the voice, or at the
signals of whom the most deeply concealed trea—
sures ascended immediately from the bowels of the
earth. One of the Arabs, who were in waiting,
having asked him, in my presence, what we were
going to do in their country, and what was our
design in examining the ruins: “ You know no-
“ thing of the matter,” replied he; “ you do not
“ comprehend, then, that the ancestors of the
“ Francs were the possessors ofall our countries, and
“ that it is from respect for the monuments erected
“ by their forefathers that they come in search of
“ their paintings and fragments, as objects which
“ recall to them their ancient power.” An adroit
and sensible reply, which was very well calculated

to
Page-170
AND LOWER EGYPT. 155

to do away the absurd notions which those barba-
rians still persevered in with regard to travellers.

Although the emir had offered me a lodging, I
preferred my own boat. The day after my visit I
saw, on my rising, three beautiful horses, which
were waiting on the banks of the Nile to conduct
me to the site of Tem‘yris, which is little more than
a quarter of a league from the present village of
Dendgm. towards the mountains of the west. Iliad
hardly arrived there when the prince himself ap-
peared; he conducted me through every place,
- pointing out to me those parts of the ediﬁce which
travellers had delineated or measured, and the
spots which they had dug up. He proposed to
me to give orders for the ground to be dug up
wherever I desired ; but this labour, performed at
random and in haste, might have involved me in
some quarrel, without being of the slightest utility.
and I thanked the prince for his offers. He told
me, laughing, that the fella/is having imagined
that the Francs had discovered heaps of gold in
the ruins, had set themselves also to digging them
up, and found themselves hardly repaid for their
time and labour.

Finally, this man, the most rational whom I met
with in Egypt, remounted his horse, after having
pointed out to me every thing that was most cu-

rious
Page-171
156 TRAVELS IN UPPER

rious there; but he left with me his son, and a
part of his servants, to whom he gave .it in charge,
not to permit the country people to appro:
and, above all, to be particularly careful that .
person disturbed me in my operations.

I found myself before one ofthe most beautiful
monuments of ancient Egypt, which time, and the
fatal genius of destruction, had equally assailed;
but which, in part, withstood their strokes and
their efforts. In the midst of ruins and rubbish,
occupying a vast space of ground, a temple still
rears itself entire, and in high preservation; a
testimony of the grandeur and the magniﬁcence
of ancient Ten/yrz's. This is one of the most
striking ediﬁces on which antiquity has endea-
voured to impress the seal of immortality, which
the Egyptians have had constantly in View, in the
prodigious works which they executed. It was de-
dicated to Isis, and this tutelary divinity of Egypt
was worshipped there under the form ofa cat.

The temple is built in the form of an oblong
square, and of white stones extracted from the cal-
careous rocks of which the neighbouring moun-
tains are composed. The front is one hundred and
thirty-two feet and some inches in length. In the
middle of the cornice, a little below the architrave,
is a globe supported by the tails of two fishes.

Enormous
Page-172
I 57

feet in

Their

)f heads
L; placed
1 Square
md the
S- F or
:han de—
:apitals.

: several
h" hiero-
exterior
and the
ly suﬂ‘i-

Icipal of
c farms,
, and of
. for the
ntations,
f monu~

ling part
16 ﬁrst is
hich the
Cd; you
observe
Page-173
,/

////‘/:r ,/Ma er x/w ,/ [WM/(AMI

?

L
Page-174

Page-175
‘
v...“

    

 

 

I

 

”r xm/M'u .

\

’.

wanna/z 0/er ﬁbrin/Mn 0/7

[715974 n] {y l. Jive/min It .

,/,

)

\‘.
g
\t

l

7

)

571/016 7’
Page-176
AND LOWER EGYPT. 157

Enormous pillars, which are twenty-one feet in
circumference, sustain a large vestibule. Their
capitals, ofa single piece, represent a sort of heads
or broad faces opposed to each other, and] placed
noon 3 drapery. They are surmounted by a square
but ck, whose fronts, which project beyond the
ﬁgures, have some resemblance to pannels. For
the rest, plate XXX. will give a clearer idea than de-
scriptions can, of the singular form ofthese capitals.

The interior of the ediﬁce is divided into several
halls, the walls of which are covered with hiero-
glyphics and symbolical ﬁgures. The exterior
walls are as completely loaded with them, and the
whole life of a designer would be scarcely suﬁi-
cient to trace a representation of these.

I contented myself with having the principal of
the ﬁgures drawn, of which the ensemble terms,
without doubt, the history of the building, and of
the time when it was erected. They are, for the
greatest part, very extraordinary representations,
which are not to be found on any other monu»
ments of ancient Egypt.

You see, plate XXXI. three persons forming part
of an Isiac procession. The head of the ﬁrst is
crowned with that sort of mitre with which the
Egyptian divinities are frequently adorned; you

observe
Page-177
158 TRAVELS IN UPI’ER

observe on it the per-sea and two serpents; above
the whole is the disk of the moon. In each hand
is a bouquet composed of proliﬁc plants. My illus-
trious friend, Citizen Millin, preserver ofantiques
at the National Museum, and distinguished Pro-
fessor ofArc/zeology, assured me, that he had never
observediany thing resembling this, on any Egyp-
tian monument, but only on an Etruscan vase.
What is to be more particularly remarked is, that
these proliﬁc ﬂowers produce plants of a nature
sometimes different. For example, at the'extremity
ofthe stalk supported by the left hand, a ﬂower of
one piece produces a ﬂower in several divisions.

The head of the second personage in this Isiae
procession is dressed somewhat differently, but
what he holds in his hand has something still
more extraordinary than the branches of the ﬁrst.
This is an Arabesque which has never been seen
yet on very ancient monuments, except on those
which are called Etruscan. It is well known that
these ornaments came from Asia ; but you do not
ﬁnd any very ancient specimens of them but on
painted vases. Amongst the ﬂowers of this Ara-
besque there are birds which appear to be aquatic
and palmipedal, and probably geese, which formed
a favourite nourishment of the Pharaohs, of the
higher classes, and of all those of the sacerdotal
order.

To
Page-178

Page-179
\ ‘l r x. . E 13\\\\\\\ .
t‘?‘ -~x\r\w \\ k\o\\§mN, \\.\\ x|\\\
Page-180
AND LOWER EGYPT. 159

To conclude, ﬁgure 3, whose head-dress is still
different from that of the two others, bears round

fruits, the species of which it is difﬁcult to deter-
mine.

Behind each of these ﬁgures is a set of hierogly-
phical characters, which, if they could be under-
stood, would give the explanation of the different
attributes which distinguished these personages;
among these the most astonishing is the long tail
which they carry. This peculiarity presents a dif-
ﬁculty which it is not easy to resolve. All the
Egyptian ﬁgures, which have tails, are dogs or
monkeys; but these haye, in reality, the human
form, and no one had as yet observed on Egyptian
monuments human ﬁgures, with an appendage
which approximates to that of animals.

The ﬂowers of ﬁgure 4 are very probably those
of the lotus ’4‘", a plant which was‘ celebrated in
Egypt as the proof of the so necessary overﬂow-
ings of the Nile, and as one of the most common
means of subsistence to man.

In plate XXX”. the ﬁgure seated is that of
Osiris with the head of a sparrow-hawk. She holds
in her left hand the iﬁau, or handled cross, and in
her right, a sceptre terminating in the head of a

* wimp/158a lotus. Lin. '
l lapwmg,
Page-181
16o TRAVELS m UPPER

lapwing, and the crescent of the moon. The second
ﬁgure, with a tail, presenting to Osiris a mutilated
cylinder, in which is another small ﬁgure, cannot
be explained, no other monument having hitherto
presented any thing bearing a resemblance to it.

Thehead-dressofthe personage ofplateXXXIlI.
is observable on several ﬁgures in the lsiac table.
It is probably an Egyptian priest. He holds in his
hand a branch of a tree on which a bird is perched.
It is not easy to determine to what species of tree
the branch belongs. We may believe, with great
appearance of truth, that it is the sycamore”’~< which
was intended to be represented. This tree, very
useful among the Egyptians, is, as has been seen,
that which they employ in making the. cases for
mummies. The bird having neither the form of
the ibis nor of the sparrow-hawk, appears to be the
tree/127w, equally sacred among the Egyptians. This
little bird, the species of which has not yet been
exactly determined, cannot be the wren, as has
been imagined, because it is white, and it takes
pleasure in the brink of marshes, of lakes, and of
rivers “in This was, according to the ancients,
the only bird which durst approach the crocodile,

* Fiat; yromorus. Lin.
’ 1~ Marmol, Africa, vol. iii. Plutarch. de Solertia Animalium,
page .980. See the transl. of Herodotus, by Citizen Larcher,
book ii. note 231, on § 68.

and
Page-182
44/

Cl‘

 

/I’)l (I/I’I'II

/

ILL/(lbw! {5 / flair/«(41”
Page-183

Page-184

Page-185
.’ 710%) (/20 ’r/zw/M' ,/ -(/n)/«z/p7'(r .

 

pmgm mp
Page-186

Page-187
1 V , 1 H 3
./’/////'m 73% L/nm x/n 1/)L/ Min/NW

ﬁIéthod [pt I .leM-Jalt
Page-188
AND LOWER EGYPT. 161

and by which it was beioved, as it rendered him
the service of entering his mouth, and eating the
leeches which fastened themselves to it 3‘; a
custom very different from the nature of the wren,
which never eats leeches; and this peculiarity,
added to some other probabilites, gives us reason
to presume, with some appearance of truth, that
the frat/117m of the ancients is the king‘s-ﬁsher.

You discover again, in plate XXXIV. nearly
the same personages as in plate XXXII. The
one, that which is seated, is Isis, or Osiris; for
it cannot be determined whether it is a man or a
woman. As a head-dress it has the disk of the
sun, and the crescent of the moon ; he holds, in
one hand, the cross with a handle, the MW, and
in the other a sceptre surmounted with a section
of the fruit of the colocasia v}, one of the plants
most in use for the food of the Egyptians. This
fruit was often placed on the summit of pillars,
to serve as a capital in Egyptian architecture. It
is unknown who is meant by the person present-
ing the two vases to the divinity ; it is, to all ap-
pearance, a priest.

Two symbolical ﬁgures occupy plate XXXV.;
but “they are inexplicable, till the period come

* See Herodotus on that part quoted in the preceding note;
Elian, lib. xii. cap. 15; Pliny, Aristotle, &c. &c.
f ﬂrum colocaria. Lin.

vor.. m. M when
Page-189
162 TRAVELS IN UPPER

when we shall be more advanced, than at present,
in the knowledge of the hieroglyphics, and the
allegorical representations of the ancient Egyp~
tians.

All the ﬁgures whiehI have just mentioned
are carved with a chisel, but without skill and
without proportion, on the walls, or on the co-
lumns of the ancient temple of 'I‘cngyris, and
they are ﬁve or six feet high. But that which is
under number 3 of plate XXXV. is in relief.
This composes a part of several others likewise
elevated in relievo, with which the ceiling of the
vestibule is ornamented; this is one of the ﬁrst
in front of the vestibule, and to the left as you
enter. It is not possible to imagine that this
ﬁgure should have been carved posterior to the
period at which the others were executed. It is
confounded with a variety of symbolical represent-
ations; the same chisel has hewn them: it is
painted of the same colour, the tint of which has
the same vividness; in a word, it has, like the
rest, the ineontestable characters of the same an»
tiquity, and it has, like them, existed in the same
edifice during the lapse of thousands of years.

We had but little expectation of ﬁnding in a
monument of the highest antiquity, and in the

heart of Egypt, a sort of sceptre surmounted
with
Page-190
AND LOWER EGYPT. 163

with the appropriate distinction which the kings
of France had adopted for their coat of arms.
The ﬂezzr-de-lis, such as it has been the emblem
of the French monarchy, is well characterized
upon the Egyptian ﬁgure. In the inﬁnite num-
ber of hieroglyphics which I have observed in
Egypt, 1 never met with this [Id/022 with a ﬂeuh
(Ia-[is but once at Denriera. Although projecting,
and very apparent, no traveller has paid attention
to it; no author has spoken of this Egyptian
sign; but however singularit may be, as I have
observed it very attentively, and repeatedly, and
as it was copied under my in5pection, I can attest
the reality of its existence at Dandenz, and the
exact resemblance of figure 3, in plate XXXV,
which represents it.

Furthermore, the ﬂeurde-li: is very far from
having existed, as a coat of arms, co-eval with
the origin of the French monarchy ; and it is cer-
tain that it was not introduced into the arms of
France till seven hundred years after its csta¢
blishment. The most ancient testimony which
we have on this subject, is extracted from the me-
moirs of the chamber of accounts in 1179. It
is observed there that Louis VII. (named the
Young) ordered a ﬂaw-deli: to be strewed on the
mantle of Philip Augustus his son, when he
caused him to be consecrated at Rheims. But if

M 2 the
Page-191
164 TRAVELS IN UPPER

the ﬂew-(1e [is was not vcry anciently the partia
cular ornament and characteristic of the crown
and sceptre of France, it was, in several coun—
tries of the East, the mark of power among the
nations of antiquity. Herodotus and Strabo re-
late that the kings of Syria and of Babylon for-
merly bore the ﬂcur-de-lz's at the extremity of
their sceptre *. Moutfaucon likewise speaks of
that of David, found in the miniature of an en-
graved manuscript of the tenth century, and
which is surmounted by the ﬂeur-de-lis via It is
evident, therefore, that the ornament called [is
(lily) was not a symbol peculiar to the kings of
France; and it is not surprising that it composed
a part of those which were employed in the mys-
terious representations of antique Egypt, since it
was in former times the mark of power with some
sovereigns of this country, or of some adjacent
sovereigntics. '

A ﬁgure not less extraordinary than any of
those which I have just mentioned, is that of
plate XXXVI. its position, the length of‘the
arms, equal to that of the thighs and legs taken
together, the deformity of all its parts, its head

* Dissert. upon the origin of the Fleurs-de-lis, by M. Rains-
sant, doctor and professor of medicine at Rheims, 1678.
1: Monum. of the French Monarchy, vol. i. prelim. dis-
course, p. 19.
and
Page-192
loll

 

,1/
II ‘ 1
1 4,2, ,

|»‘: I, 4: l‘ . l ,
. 11/1,

3 742%0/404/11 5/1; 4/

x

g

 

5.7 : _ . f
fV/Vgg... \§¥k§§\\§x§£5 .. .k§§§§~v§x§§§§x¥§x§§§x§lkﬁup?!

 

  

I].

 

.- .l/nzil IA’ l/az/r/n/r’nl

, I

.’/’/}/ (I r17

1/}

(/

[14 l'lII/ht'tl' (4' [J'lm'ﬂw’u/e ‘
Page-193

Page-194
AND LOWER EGYPT. 165

and hands bent downward, its head-dress, are
an assemblage of singularities, of which no other
Egyptian monument presents the example. You
see this ﬁgure, truly curious, at the extremity of
the temple of Dena’era, ina funereal apartment,
nearly square, and the sides of which are more
than ten feet in length. It is carved in relievo,
and occupies the edge of three sides of the ceiling
of the apartment of which it would form the cor-
nice, if it were upon the top of the walls, instead
of making the round of the ceiling only. In the
middle are several other smaller ﬁgures, likewise
in relief, and which the large one encircles.

It was not in their architecture alone that the
Egyptians displayed that affection for posterity,
that love of immortality, which presides in all
their works; they wished also that the painting
they employed should be equally durable. The
colours of which they made use, the two-edged
tool serving to incorporate them closely and for
ever with bodies as hard and as solid as stone, are
so many proofs of their profound knowledge in
the arts, and so many secrets, which our re-
searches have not yet been able to discover. The
ceiling of the temple of Deniem is painted in
fresco, of the brilliant colour of azure blue, with
which the vault of the ﬁrmament shines in ﬁne
weather: the ﬁgures in relief strewed along its
bottom, are painted of a beautiful yellow: and

M 3 these
Page-195
166 TRAVELS IN UPPER

these paintings, at the expiration of some thou-
sands of years, possess still a brilliancy to which
our freshest colours do not approach, and they
are still as livelyas if they had been newly laid on.

Ihave said that the front of this temple, an
admirable, and but little known wmk of the ge-
nius and the patience, which, among the ancient
people of Egypt, produced wonders, was an
hundred and thirty two feet and some inches in
length. I took its other dimensions with the
same exactness. The depth of the peristyle is an
hundred and ﬁfteen feet three inches, and its
breadth sixty feet eleven inches. The two sides
of the ediﬁce are two hundred and ﬁftyfour feet
nine inches and a half in length; ﬁnally, the
depth is a hundred and ten feet eleven inches.
The summit of the temple is ﬂattened, and
formed of very large stones, which are laid from
one pillar to another, or on two walls of separa—
tion. Several of these masses are eighteen feet
long and six broad. Rubbish heaped up, and
the sand which collects there, have raised the soil
to a level with the roof of the building, and you
easily ascend it from behind, although the front
is. still elevated seventy feet above ground. The "
inhabitants of this canton had availed themselves
or this disposition; they had built a village on
the Very summit of the temple, as on a basis
more ﬁrm than the inconstant sands or marshy

637:1}
Page-196
AND LOWER EGYPT. 167

earth upon which they generally erect their
dwellings. W'hen I was at Dem/era, this modern
village was desolatcd and overthrown; its ruins
of hardened mud formed a singular contrast with
the magniﬁcent remains of the ancient city of
Tentyris. \Ve beheld there with sorrow the most
complete proof of the total annihilation of the
arts, in a country which had given birth, and
such an astonishing perfection, to them, and the
still more deplorable decline of the human mind.

An establishment of barbarous men could not
fail to be fatal to the monument which they pro-
faned by their presence, rathcr than overloaded it
with the weight of their ﬂimsy huts. A number
of ﬁgures have disappeared under the cﬁ’orts of
the detestation which they have avowed of the
arts in general, and of the representations of ani—
mated nature in particular. All those of the
ﬁgures which were within their reach are de-
stroyed. Those of the ceiling, and those on the
heights of the walls, have been spared, from the
impossibility of getting at them. But the fella/1r
have not been the only people who took delight
in mutilating one of the most beautiful and inte-
resting works of antiquity; they were aided in
their rage for destruction by the troops of Cairo,
who, to serve an usurping and sanguinary be},
often went into Upper Egypt to search for, and

M 1.1. to
Page-197
I63 TRAVELS IN UPPER

to combat with a fugitive bey. These ferocious
soldiers excre'sed their barbarity in ﬁring bullets
and cannon—snot into several parts of the temple,
with the intention of overthrowing it. The beau—
tiful ceiling, the colours of which were still so
brilliant, was injured in several places by the im-
pression of those balls, aimed by ignorance and
brutality; and in this strife of destruction we
cannot too much admire the extreme solidity of
a building, which had at once to withstand the
ravages of time, and the efforts of a stupid fero-
City.

The emir, with whom I had frequent conver-
sations, spoke to me with regret of the disorders
committed by the Mamelucs, when he had the
misfortune to see them pass through his little do—
minion. This prince came one clay to pay me a
visit in my boat, which served me for a lodging;
he was preceded by baskets ﬁlled with all sorts of
fruits, as very good grapes, delicious ﬁgs, apri-
cots (miscbmisciz) very small and tasteless, pome-
granates, the pulp of which is not very sa-
voury, Sac. He gave me also a little engraved
stone, and some copper medals, Greek and Ro-
man, of very little value. These medals and en-
graved stones are very commonly found, as well
as other fragments of antiquity, and emeralds, in
the ruins of Tl‘lrlyris. To make some return for

the
Page-198
AND LOWER EGYPT. 169

the courteous and generous behaviour of the emir,
I presented him with a fowling-piece, and a small
provision of gunpowder; he made great diﬁ‘i—
culties of accepting my present, but concluded
with taking it; and as soon as he returned home
he sent me some sheep, and other provisions for
my voyage.

The evening before our departure from Den-
(Zera, the 20th of June, we were obliged to have
a sharp look-out in our boat. Some robbers had
been strolling about during the night on the
banks of the Nile, and they appeared to be pre-
paring to attack us. I was lulled into a profound
slumber. All at once I was awakened by fright-
ful outcries. Our Egyptian sailors, who had ap«
parently perceived the robbers advancing too near,
could hit upon no better expedient for our de-
fence, than that of roaring out with all their
might. I could not divine the cause of this tu-
mult; and I did not know at ﬁrst whether the
boat was sinking, whether it was consuming by
ﬁre, or whether the highwaymen were taking
possession of it. Two of my companions were
on the watch; but it was a long time beforel
was able to settle the countersigns: they em-
ployed themselves in stopping the mouths of the
sailors with ﬁsty-cuﬂ's, who had prevented, by
their clamours, their seizing two men on the point

of
Page-199
17o TRAVELS 1N UPPER

enteringthc boat. At last a discharge of muskctry
very soon freed us from a visit too impertinent.

No modern, before Mr. Bruce, had ascertained
the situation of Denziera. The astronomical ob-
servations which he had the power of making
there, have determined the latitude of a place for.-
merly celebrated, and which the beautiful re-
\mains of antiquity which it contains render still
interesting, at 26° 10’. But this traveller re-.-
proves, very improperly and sharply, Norden, for
having said that Dendenz was to the south of B03:-
jozmz, a town which iMr. Bruce places at 26° 3”)“.
However, the opinion of Norden is adopted by all

those who are acquainted with Upper Eg) ptg it
is conformable to fact, and I cannot conceive how

a traveller so well informed as Mr. Bruce should
have been mistaken so far, as to place to the
north of a point, a place, which in reality is se-
veral leagues toward the south, of which it is
very easy to be satisﬁed, by casting your eye over
the map of Egypt, plate XXXVI“. Some pages
further on, Mr. Bruce advances Bar/bum 1-6"
more towards the south, by placing it at 26° 3’ 16",
In all this there is apparently some error either
in the compilation, or in the translation,

* Travels to the Sources of the Nile.