SARCOPHAGUS AND KING’S CHAMBER. 47'

ging, and the occasional shouts with which they favored us,

both to show the power of their lungs, and the reverberating
capacity of the apartment, were very singular, in such a.
place, and under circumstances calculated to produce the
deepest emotion. The sarcophagus interested me much more

than I had expected, and I took some pains to measure it

with precision, because of the question respecting mm
by which, and the time when, it was introduced: /the result '2),
of my measurement was as follows: length outs de, 7 feet. 5 f A
inches, breadth,3 feet 2% inches; height, 3 feéf‘ 3 inches: E
It 1s of the red granite, and has no hieroglyphics it, aiid ‘ 7
no cover. Whatever it may have contained in fowaggys, «ﬁx
it is now empty , and here it stands, a strange monuméntw
the instability of kingly power, since all this vast structure,
as is supposed, was built to contain the perishing dust of a
monarch, whose remains have long since, we know not when,
been carried off, and scattered to the four winds of heaven.
The sarcophagus has been much injured by the culpable con-
duct of visitors, who are usually desirous to carry away some
relic of the Pyramid, and who have not scrupled to break off
pieces from one of the corners, to an extent which, if con‘
tinued, will ere long destroy it entirely. We hardly had time
to reﬂect much upon the perplexing questions which present
themselves in connection with the sarcophagus and the King’s
chamber, in general; but we could not fail to be as much
struck as every one has been with the fact, that there is an
entire absence of hieroglyphics where, above all places, we
we should have expected to have found them. May it not
be, after all, that the secret of the Pyramid has not yet been
discovered? Is it not possible, that where so much skill and
care has been displayed in everything, to keep out intruders,
and to conceal from all eyes some sacred spot or object, that
there is yet something to be discovered, which will throw light
upon points, even to the present day much debated, and far
from being satisfactorily ascertained? I am, by no means,

