42 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

Like many hundreds of other visitors of all nationsﬁ" we too
inscribed our initials on one of the immense blocks of stone
which are found at this great elevation, and which ﬁll one
with wonder how they were ever raised to such a height.
As we were all Americans, too, we hoisted the stars and
stripes, and one of the party taking the lead, three as hearty
cheers were sent forth as ever were heard on any occasion;
the Bedawin, who had attended us to the top, and were prob-
ably not unacquainted with similar outbursts of national feel-
ing, joined in with the cheering very lustily; but hardly had
they got through with this tribute to America, before they
raised the Arab cry of bakhs/rish .’ balcltsltz's/t .’ All such
claims, however, we made it a principle to resist, and to give
them all that they deserved, and something more, at the last
moment of our stay; for if a person once begins to give, there
is no cessation to the clamor and confusion which they make
in pressing upon him, and annoying him beyond expression.
Taking this course as the best in every way which a travel-
ler can adopt, We prepared to descend to the level below,
where we had left Mrs. B., who had declined venturing to
make the ascent. I will confess to you, my dear 8., that I
had more apprehension of coming down than of going up. At
an elevation of between four and ﬁve hundred feet, and look-

* When Chateaubriand was in Egypt, in 1806, he was prevented by circum-
stances from visiting the Pyramids; nevertheless he thought that he might as
well ﬁgure in good company there as anybody else; so, as he says, “ I requested
M. Caﬂ‘c, on the ﬁrst opportunity, to inscribe my name, according to custom, on
these prodigious tombs: for I like to fulﬁl all the little duties ofa pious traveller."
His friend, M. Caﬂ‘e, it appears, did not relish exactly this injunction, and very
quietly omitted putting the learned Frenchman’s name on the summit of the
Great Pyramid; but subsequently the piety of the Viscount met with some one
who regarded it more highly than M. Caﬂ‘e appears to have done ; his name was
cut into the rock or stone of the Pyramid, and there it remained until a coun-
tryman of the parties seems to have blushed at the ridiculousness of the whole
proceeding, and so wrote under the name of Chateaubriand, “1L1. le Vicomte
n‘était pas ici.” I was sorry not to be able to ﬁnd this amusing specimen of the
history of past years during our visit to the Pyramids. Possibly it has been en-
tirely erased—See Chateaubriand’s “Travels,” 51c, p. 412, N. Y. 1814.

