HEBRON AND ITS VICINITY. 371'

“ The town is situated partly on the sides of the valley and
partly in the valley itself, being divided into three distinct
parts. The valley here is quite small, but cultivated with
great care. The antiquities of Hebron are the pools between
the hills, and the tomb of Abraham on the opposite side of
the city. It is the highest part of the city, though only at
the foot of the hill surrounding the valley. It is guarded
with great care, and woe be to the Christian or Jew who
should be detected within its sacred walls. The ediﬁce is
rather longer than broad, above whose lofty walls rise the
roofs of the mask where is the tomb of the patriarch. The
lower wall bears the same marks of antiquity as those about
the temple area in Jerusalem. There are eight courses of
stone, and, what is peculiar, there are sixteen pilasters on
each side, and eight on each end, with a kind of buttress,
as we see in the ditch of the tower of Hippicus, at Jerusalem.
On the top of this the Mohammedans have built up a coarse,
whitewashed wall, that it may not he commanded from the
hill above.

“Hebron is one of the most ancient cities known. It is
mentioned in Genesis, xiii. 18: ‘Then Abraham removed
his tent, and came and dwelt in the plain of Mamre, which
is in Hebron, and built there an altar unto the Lord.’ In
the thirteenth chapter of Numbers it is stated, ‘Now Hebron
was built seven years before Zoan in Egypt.’ Its most an-
cient name appears to have been Kirjath-arba; ‘and Sarah
died in Kirjath-arba ; the same is Hebron in’ the land of
Canaan; and Abraham came to mourn for Sarah and to
weep for her’ (Gen. xxiii. 2). It was a famous city of the
patriarchs; the royal residence of king David; and ﬁgured
largely in the history of the Crusades. The inhabitants of
Hebron were sullen, and scowled upon us as we rode about
its streets. It is now one of the quarantine stations for
travellers coming from Egypt, and a lazaretto has been built
on the hill-side to the south of the city. This being the

