304' EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

yes, I believe it; what for you no believe it?” “ I will tell
you, Tommaso, presently; but ﬁrst, let me know why you.
think that our Saviour left the mark of His foot upon. the
rock before His ascension into heaven.” “ O, my priest tell
me so; and he know more than I do ; I am ignorant and
can’t read ; but my priest and the bishop too, tell me so, and
everybody here believe it; what for you no believe it 1” “ Tom-
maso, suppose your priest were to tell you that this piece of stone
wasnot stone, but bread? would you believe it because he knows
more than you do?” “ No, no, my master, but my priest never
tell me such thing.” “ I dare saynot; that would be running
too gleat a risk , your credulity would not take in quite that;

but did the priest ever tell you how he knew that this mark on
the rock was what he says it is? did he tell you that he found
it in the Bible? did he tell you that any of the ﬁrst Christians
ever heard of this story? No; I am sure he did not. Now,
Tommaso, you ask me why I do not believe this to be out
Saviour’s foot-print; I will tell you. This volume in my
hand contains the Holy Gospels, which give us an account of
all that the Apostles and Evangelists wrote concerning our
Saviour ; I have read it through' and through a good many
times, and there is not a word in it about this story. I have,
read, too, a great many other books, some written by Christians
a thousand, and ﬁfteen, sixteen, seventeen hundred yearsago,
and some by those in later times, and I tell you, Tommaso,
that there was no such thing as this ever heard of in old
times. Remember, that I am a priest, too, and can read as
well as your priest, who tells you this and a good many other
stories which are not true. Besides, Tommaso, I want you
to think a little about another thing. Our Saviour did a
great many miracles; He healed the sick; He cleansed the
lepers; He cured the lame and the blind and the lunatic; He
raised the (lead ; and hundreds and thousands of such thing
as these: all 'of them we understand why He did them; there
was reason and ﬁtness in such miracles; there was love. and

