250 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND»

much delight, was so little like Jerusalem as she now is, da
graded and desolate, that I yielded to the pressure of cir-
cumstances, and gave way to feelings and emotions of which
I had not believed myself capable. I trust, however, that
you, who know me so well, will pardon even this at my
hands, and excuse some of the defects which, I fear, will at-
tach to most of my letters from the Holy Land.

Before attempting to tell you aught about Jerusalem, al-
low me, as brieﬂy as I can, to describe our journey from
Gaza upward to the Holy City.* We were permitted to
leave the quarantine at any time after sunrise, on the morn-
ing of the fourth instant, our seventh day; and as we were de-
sirous, not only to escape from the disagreeable conﬁnement,
but also to reach the Holy City as early in Passion Week as
was possible, We had everything prepared in good season for
our departure. Dr. W. and Mr. M. continued in company with
us, and their train, added to ours, presented quite an imposing
appearance, as we took up our line of march for the city of
the Great King. The gentlemen of our party were mounted
on horses—rather sorry beasts, at best——while our luggage
and servants proceeded in the usual manner on the camels:
originally, our engagement With the Bedawin was to have
the camels as far as to Ramleh; but as we were hurrying
forward as much as possible, we succeeded, after some dis.
cussion, in eﬂ'ecting a change in our route, and prevailed
upon our headman to go by the shorter road to Jerusalem,
by which means we expected to accomplish in two, what
would otherwise require three days. The morning of our
departure was rather unpleasant; we had had rain for nearly
every day while in quarantine, and the weather proved to be,

' The expression is strictly accurate, more so than, perhaps, might at ﬁrst
sight appear. Gaza is near the sea, and of course not _much above its level;
Jerusalem is situate among the hills and mountains of Benjamin, about27m
feet above the level ofthe Mediterranean. It is worth noticing, too, that in the
direction given to Philip by the angel, he is told to “go toward the south unto
the way that goat}: down from Jerusalem to Gaza." (Acts viii. 26.)

