136 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

be difﬁcult, without something of a ground plan, to render
clear the position of What remains, or to give anything of an
idea of what this temple was, in the days of the great Sesos-
tris, whose warlike achievements and glory form so prominent
a part of its sculptured decorations. If you feel curious to
read the details, you cannot do better than consult the valu-
able work so frequently referred to, “Modern Egypt and
Thebes.” At present, I doubt not, that I shall have your
pardon, if I leave these ruins, though so imperfectly and
brieﬂy described, and occupy the remainder of my letter with
some account of the grand and imposing remains at Karnak.
It is rather an interesting ride from Luxor, in a northerly
direction, towards Karnak, through the ﬁelds of Izalfeh grass,
and passing by the many interesting sites of ancient ruins,
the tomb of a noted sheikh, portions of an old wall, &0. As
one draws near the temple, he begins to see the evidences of
there having been an avenue or street of great size, connect-
ing Luxor with Karnak, even as the former was connected
with the temples and palaces on the west bank. Fragments,
for they can hardly be called more, of Sphinxes, arranged on
either hand, show the direction of the street, and even in their
almost shapeless condition, give one something of an idea of
the grandeur of the approach to Karnak in former days.
Shortly after, passing over a dromos, or continuation of the
same avenue, in which are Criosphinxes, or Sphinxes with
rams’ heads, a very imposing pylon attracts the attention: it
was the work of Ptolemy Euergetes and Berenice his sister
(BC. 246), who, according to the abominable practice of those
days, was also his wife and queen. These gateways are ’
frequently very grand and majestic; and though they would
probably be out of place anywhere but in Egypt, they here
suit admirably with the massive style of architecture, in
which the ancient people of this land seemed to delight. They
are very lofty, with very thick and solid walls, and highly
decorated with sculptures, generally in intaglio, and a profu-

