CHURCH OF THE HOLY SEPULCIIRE. 319

in a few minutes, come to “ Palmer Street.” We make our
way through the crooks and turns, and over the frequent
irregularities, for a short distance, till we reach the open
paved court in front of the entrance to the church. The
scene here presented is unique: the court is ﬁlled with the
venders of beads, crosses, cruciﬁxes, mother-of—pearl shells,
etc.; with numbers of pilgrims from remote districts, gazing
at everything with the deepest wonder and most profound
credulity; with some lounging soldiers and Turkish guards;
and with here and there a Frank or two looking on with
emotions of surprise, unbelief, and contempt.* On either
hand are the walls of the Greek conventual buildings, bear-
ing still the traces of Byzantine architecture in the portions
of columns built in and half covered by the walls; directly
before us is a part of the southern wall of the church, which,
though evidently, even to our unscientiﬁc eyes, of a mixed
and corrupt style of architecture, still wears a venerable and
not unmajestic lock: near by, too, on the left, you notice a
portion of the ancient campanile or bell tower, which has
been suffered to fall gradually, and in great measure, into
ruin and disuse. The entrance is through the rarge, stout
folding doors, which are kept closed a great part of the time.
There is a hole, as you see, in one of them, by which offer-
ings are handed in, and bribes given to the guards just inside
the church. Tommaso makes a great fuss and noise, and
parades forth our dignity and importance, and after a short
time, principally by the aid of some half-dozen piastres, gets
the door opened for our admission. The crowd of poor pil-
grims, who are striving to get in at the same time, are rudely

* The Hon. Mr. Curzon gives a graphic account of the deplorable and dread-
ful scenes which he witnessed in the church of the Holy Sepulchre, in May,
1834, when Ibrahim Pasha was present, when the foul imposture of the holy
ﬁre was played 05‘ as usual, when several hundred (probably about five
hundred) persons were trampled under foot, suffocated, run through by the sol-
diers, &c., and when the court in front of the church was ﬁlled with dead
bodies !—-“ [Monasteries in the Levant," p. 182-197.

