VIEW FROM THE CITADEL. 197

mosk, is really grand, and surpasses anything which I have
seen in Cairo. You have spread out before you the whole,
city, the arsenal below, and -the surrounding country. , Just
outside of the Citadel gates is the mosk of Sultan Hassan;
Immediately beyond, and in every direction, the numerous
minarets rise, as it were, from amid the ruins of a great city
and form one of the features on which the eye lovesto rest
In the distance are the mighty Pyramids, and the valley of
the Nile, reaching to Sakkhara on the south, and the point
of the Delta on the north. Besides the things already men
tioned, the Citadel contains other objects worthy of a visit, a
the Pasha’s palace, where AbbaSEPasha. receives ofﬁcial visit»,
and the well of. Joseph, that is, of Salah ed-Din, or-YuscI
ibn-Eiyub, who, though you might. not easily guess it ﬁxum
the Arabic name, thus spelled, ﬁguresin history and romance
as the chivalrous Saladin, the worthy opponent of the Lion-
hearted Richard of England. We visited these, as a matter
of course, while we were aboutvit; but they are not of con-
sequence enough to demand special description at my hands.
As we were leaving the Citadel, on our return, I chanced
to be some distance behind our party, and alone; a number
(if noisy boys came along, and excepting some abusive words,
passed me without notice» I rode on very quietly, not ex-
pecting anything further, when the ﬁrst thing I knew, a large
stone struck me in the back, having been hurled with con-
siderable force. Convinced that insult of this kind ought not
to be submitted to in silence, I immediately wheeled my
donkey to the right about, and dashed into the midst of the
boys at full speed. I happened to have a stout stick in my
hand, and' I assure you, I whirled it about to the inﬁnite an-
noyance and no little"risk of these young.fanatics.. I de-
manded to know which was the one that dared to throw a
stone; but, terriﬁed, pale and trembling, every boy denied it,
and thus prevented my castigating the real offender, a course
Which I had made up mymind tontake, withoutE hesitation,

