VASTNESS 0F THEBES as A WHOLE. 143

bility, and such-like things. But, not only must you not
suppose, that the beauty or glory of Karnak remains, or that
you can walk amid aught but ruins in the grand temple;
you must also recollect, that vast as is the main temple, 'and
astonishing as'it is in every respect, it does not constitute all
which meets theveye, and ﬁlls the mind with inexpressible
emotions. I have alluded to the avenue of Sphinxes, through
which one passes in approaching Karnak from the south, and
a majestic pylon, of the days of the Ptolemies. Other and
grander things are in the vicinity. Numerous buildings and
. smaller temples are not far off, which, by themselves, would
be imposing and grand, but being near the principal temple,
are considered as nothing by comparison. Here one sees a
prodigious gateway, of polished granite, covered with sculp-
ture, and adorned with colossal_statues; and there, some
other ediﬁce, not directly cemented with the great temple,
but included in the ruins, meets the view, and, mingled
with the evidences of later life, and the sad falling off from
former greatness, in the mud huts of the peasantry, some,
times built in and upon the remains of ancient temples, tends
to deepen the impression which Karnak, as a whole, is calcu-
lated to makehon the mind and memory of the least imaginm
Vtive person. Add to this, too, the consideration, that Karnak
was, after all, only a part of old Thebes; that it was connected
with Luxor by the dromos of Sphinxes; that Luxor was
connected with the splendid temples, palaces, obelisks, and
statues, on the west bank; and that the whole covered. a
circuit of, it is said, thirty miles; and you will need, as you
can have, nothing more to prove, that on this plain are the
grandest, most astonishing, and most interesting ruins in the
world. I may, perhaps, be allowed to use the language of
Denon, a French traveller, who accompanied the expedition
which Bonaparte sent into Egypt, and with some allowance
for What may be thought exaggeration, may adopt it as ex-
pressive of my own sentiments: “One is fatigued with wri-

