232 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

wise, would be dangling all day without any relief. Con—-
sequently, We had these useful articles attached to the-fore
part of our wooden saddle, and found them very excellent for.
the purpose intended. At ﬁrst you are apt to feel that your
position is rather too elevated for comfort, and it is not to be
wondered at if you look somewhat anxiously at the height ‘
from the ground, and think very seriously of the chances of
a broken head, or neck, it may be, in case you are pitched
off unawares. But a little experience reconciles you entirely
to this arrangement, and when you have spent a hot day in
the desert, Where on the sand the heat is intolerable, button
the camel’s back there is usually a nice and free circulation
of air, you feel the value of a lofty elevation like this, and
are glad, at any price, to purchase some exemption from the
power of the burning sun. All being ready, the camel-
driver leads the dromedary forward, and you immediately
ﬁnd that the motion produced by its long strides and peculiar
gait, is by far the most singular of anything you have ever
experienced. Now you pitch forward, now backward, now
sideways, and now you have a movement consisting of a mix-
ture of all three. For a while you are in great terror of
falling off, and grasp the pommels, if so I may term them,
of the wooden saddle with desperate earnestness; and if
your head is not good or you are easily affected with nausea,
you may feel something of what is commonly called sea-sick-
ness : ladies, I have been told, not unfrequently suffer in
this way. But supposing that you escape this mishap, you
are some little time before you dare look around you, or try
to enjoy the novel scene. You still feel suspicious; you are
uneasy at the growling and unpleasant noises of the camels ;
you do not yet understand the habits of the animal, and you
suspect that some dreadful accident will most certainly occur
before you are through with the matter. By and by, too,
your back begins to ache, and you ﬁnd this perpetual see-saw
sort of motion, which is not discontinued for a moment, so

