GRAND TEMPLE AT KARNAK. 137

sion of hieroglyphics. This particular one is a ﬁne specimen
of Egyptian pyla, and, in general, may be compared with
ediﬁces like Napoleon’s grand Triumphal Arch in Paris,
which was‘ erected for a purpose not very unlike that which
appears to have prompted the monarchs of Egypt at different
periods, to add to the glories and extent of Karnak. Passing
through this Ptolemaic pylon, another avenue, similarly adorned
with Sphinxes, leads to the pyramidal towers or propyla of
a. temple behind this gateway.‘ It was now that we began to
form some idea of Homer’s e'xaréynulaa 6715;“ (Il, ix. 383),* an
expression which, as there are not the slightest traces of city
walls or gates, almost certainly refers——if it be more than
a poetic expletive—to the propyla or gateways of the tem-
ples—we did not, however, stop at this point to examine any-
thing, when the grand temple was so near at hand, and over-
shadowing every object else by its vast size and importance,
but hastened onward to gaze at its wonders in silent admira-
tion.

The front or main entrance is on the northwest side, where
we took our stand, and had our ﬁrst view of the largest and
grandest temple in the world. Its extent is almost bewilder-
ing, and it was a long time before I could form any sort of
idea of what was before me. Just fancy yourself placed at
an immense doorway, and looking into a building whose width
is between three and four hundred feet, and length nearly
twelve hundred feet, and whose walls are proportionably thick,
massive, and lofty: imagine, if you can, hundreds of columns,
so large and so grand, as to excite unbounded astonishment,
seen at various distances, and in various positions, and form-

* “ Not all proud Thebes’ unrivalled walls contain,
The world’s great Empress on th’ Egyptian plain;
That spreads her conquests o’er a thousand states,
And pours her heroes through a hundred gates,
Two hundred horsemen, and two hundred cars,
From each wide portal issuing to the wars." POPE.

