THE IIOSPITABLE moNKs. 451

poor, 'without money and without price; if rich, leaving it to,
them to bestow what they choose in furtherance of the\
charity which they are enjoying. No one, except he has,
been in the East, and experienced;the- entire absence of all.
public accommodations for the traveller, and been,thrown.
entirely upon his own resources, especially in the hours of.
sickness and pain, can fully comprehend, not. only the great
value, but the peculiarly grateful and cheering character of
the hospitality thus extended to all alike, the rich, the poor,r
the noble, the peasant, the protestant, the inﬁdel,—in short,
to men of all religions and all classes. Be assuredxthat we.
shall ever entertain the most kindly recollections towards the
good fathers of the Latin convent at Nazareth, for. we en-.
joyed their hospitality and witnessed their charitable atten-,,
tion to the sick and distressed, during the two days and;
nights that we spent. under their roof.

Very early on the morning of the 23d inst, we bade adieu,
to the venerable monk who had at that time the Casa Nuova
in charge, and turning our faces westwardly set off in the
direction of Mount Carmel. For some considerable time,
we rode over the hills and through the valleys and meadows.
which lie in the neighborhood‘of‘ Nazareth: at six o’clock,
just as the sun began.to.illumine with its glory the sur-
rounding scenery, and came into full View over the hills,
which were between us and the village we had just left, we.
entered again upon the. north-westerly portion of the great
plain of Esdraelon, which reaches even to the base of Car-V
mel’s range. The prospect was very beautiful at this early
hour of the morning, when the- dews and mists which en-.
veloped the summits of the hills and mounts gradually dis-V,
appeared, andsettling in the gorges and ravines, brought out
into bold relief the‘ mountain-tops which were in sight on.
either hand. As we advanced, We frequently crossed rive--
lets and streams of some little size and depths, showing the,
abundance of water in this part of the plain, and adding

