180 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

them, lead a life of indolence and inactivity. These and
other characteristics of the same kind, belong to nearly all
oriental towns, and are more or less familiar to every one who
has taken any interest in Eastern matters. It needs not,
therefore, that I should enlarge upon these things in general;
but I am sure that you will ﬁnd something to amuse you in
the streets and bazaars, during the walks that I propose you
should take with me in Cairo. Let us sally out, then, in good
season, and take a look at some of the many strange and
curious things, to be seen in the streets andlanes of the me-
tropolis. ‘

Turning to the right, as we leave theHotcl d’Europe, we soon
arrive at another quarter of the town. We enter through a
large door, which at night is shut and guarded, and ﬁnd our-
selves in a narrow, crooked lane, hardly wide enough to pass
any one on a donkey, and having a gloomy appearance and a
damp atmosphere. It is the Copt quarter Where we are: the
Jewish quarter we shall ﬁnd to be much worse; and the
Turkish a very great deal better. Observe the change in the
streets: here they are about ﬁve or six feet wide, and some-
times much less; and the little shops on either side, with the
women squatted in the midst of their dates, or vegetables, or
groceries; the men shouting forth their articles of trade; the
children playing under foot; the slippery mud and ﬁlth in
which we are treading, impress one very singularly, and far
from pleasantly. One does not wonder that plague, cholera,
and pestilence in general rage in Cairo. The only surprise
to those educated in the belief that cleanliness of person and
habitation, and the circulation of pure air, are essential to
the health of the community, is, that the plague should ever
leave such a fair ﬁeld for its operations as this; or that the
cholera and pestilential fevers should not sweep away the
whole population, during the’ period of their ravages. Notice
how scant is the supply of light, though it is noon-day, and
the sun is shining in all its vigor. The interior of the petty

