134 EGYPT AND.THE HOLY LAND.

number of persons who have ascended the Nile is less this
year than in former years, there is‘ no lack of names to show
who has made a pilgrimage at the present date: you will
need no assurance that Americans ﬁgure. quite as largely as
others in this matter. .

The obelisk which stands in front of the propylon just
spoken of, at a distance of about thirty feet, is certainly one
of the most beautifully executed things which Egypt pre-
sents to the admiration of the lovers of art. It is not sur-
passed by the larger one at Karnak; and if my recollection
do not greatlymislead me, is in far better preservation than
that which now adorns the great Square in Paris. I assure
you, that I stood looking at, this splendid shaft with unmixed
delight, notwithstanding I felt how sadly out of place is every-
thing of a living kind which surrounds it, and how'liable it
is to injury and defacement, from the ignorance and careless-
ness of the peasantry, and Sometimes the relic-loving propen-
sities of travellers. It is of the ﬁnest kind of red granite, has
received a polish and beauty of ﬁnish inimitably ﬁne, and
rises to a height .of about eighty feet, being about seven feet
square at the base. Its four sides are covered with a profusion
of hieroglyphics, which are “no:less admirable for the style
of their execution, than for the depth to which they are cut,
which, in many instances, exceeds two inches.” My skill in
reading hieroglyphics being very‘ slight," I did not attempt to
interpret .whatis written, in these mysterious characters, on
the faces of the obelisk. ‘ I occupied myself more agreeably,
in admiring the workuof the artist who, thousands of years
ago, traced outfth'e various symbols on which my eyes now
rested, and which it seemed'almost impossible to persuade
myself, were not the Work of the present generation. I do
not speak too strongly, for thefreshness 'of color, and the pre—
cision and accuracy of the sculpture, are perfectly astonishing;
and did we not know positively, that the obelisk, as well as
other grand objects at Thebes, were executed so many ages

