THE PRIVATE TOMBs. 121

that after all, it requires a very extensive preparation, to en-
joy and proﬁt by the most of things, in which these mansions
of the dead abound. The Tomb of Memnon (No. 9), as it
was styled by the Romans, is certainly well worthy a visit,
and appears to have been greatly admired by the Greek and
Roman visitors, who have recorded on the walls their senti-
ments, in inscriptions of some length. Nos. 14 and 15 have
several points of interest, illustrative of Egyptian life and
manners. The tomb belonging to the priest Petarnunap, is
very remarkable for its extent, and the profusion of its deco-
ration; and it has been calculated, that the area of the exca-
vation is twenty-two thousand two hundred and seventeen
square feet, and with the chambers of the pits, twenty-three
thousand eight hundred and nine; and that it occupies nearly
an acre and a quarter of ground. At present, the bats have
taken up their residence in such numbers, in this tomb, that
it is extremely disagreeable to penetrate into its recesses.* In
every direction, too, the scandalous manner in which the tombs
and mummy-pits have been riﬂed, and the fragments of human
remains scattered about, excite one’s indignation at the heart-
lessness of travellers and antiquarian collectors, and the eu-
pidity of the uncivilized Arabs.

Among the private tombs, by far the most curious and
interesting is the one which Wilkinson has marked 35, for

* “ We cannot leave these ancient tombs without expressing our regret that
the rage for discovery in the mansions of the dead should have led to conse-
quences so little creditable to European delicacy. The mummies have been
drawn from their recesses with a rapacious and unsparing hand. The chief
part of this havoc, no doubt, has,been committed by the Arabs, who tear the
bodies open to get at the rosin, or asphaltum, used in the embalming, which they
sell at Cairo to great advantage; but travellers and their agents have also had
their share in this sacrilege, as it may be justly called. It is, we are informed,
a sad and disgusting sight; the sands and the edges of the graves, in some parts,
being strewed with bones and even pieces of ﬂesh thrown wantonly about. The
poor Egyptians, who had slept in peace some thousands of years, have been mer-
cilessly dealt with here, and the remains of warriors, citizens, and sages, now lie
mingled together beneath the burning sun ; for no retreat or sanctuary has been
suﬁ‘ered to remain inviolate.”—Russell’s “ Ancient and Modern Egypt,” p. 230.

6

