332 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

we may, I think, not improperly, dismiss it Without 'fu-rﬁitr
notice.

Dr. R. supposes the Tyropoeon to have extended along the
street which leads down directly east from the Jaﬂ'a gate till
it joins the deeper wady, which runs in a southern direction
quite to the Pool of Siloam and the Valley of J ehoshaphat. He
also supposes Akra to have been north of Zion, and separated
from it by theValley of the Cheesemakers just spoken of. Both
these hypotheses are ably met, and, in my judgment, refuted
by Mr. Williams. Tischcndorfl‘, too, advocates the same view
with so much force and precision, that I beg to quote his
words, which are the more worthy of notice because he was
at ﬁrst a believer in Dr. R.’s theory on the subject of the
topography of Jerusalem, but afterwards gave it up entirely
as untenable, on examining the results of Dr. Schultz’s and
Mr. Williams’s labors :——it is an “ erroneous opinion,” he says,
“to assume that Akra, or the Lower City, lay adjacent,
northerly, to Mount Zion. This supposition of Robinson, and
of many others, could only be rendered possible by not taking
the text of the description of Josephus literally, and by not
sufﬁciently elucidating it to themselves by its comparison with
the existing localities. Akra could not lie to the north of
Mount Zion, as RobinSon asserts; because, in the ﬁrst place,
Josephus says, since the ﬁlling up of an intervening valley
under the Asmonacans, it formed one whole with Moriah, the
Mount of the Temple; but to the present day, Robinson’s
Akra is distinctly separated, and must ever have been 50,
from the Mount of the Temple, by the Valley of the Cheese-
makers: secondly, because Josephus states that Akra was
separated from Zion, or the Upper City, by the Valley of the
Cheesemakers; but the Valley of the Cheesemakers runs, as
is distinctly perceptible, from north to south, and has absor
lutely no arm which from the west, in justiﬁcation of the ex-
pression of Josephus, separated Akra from Zion: thirdly,
because Josephus says that both the Upper City and Lower

