210 EGYPT AND "run HOLY LAND.-

the thousand ways in which our bishops labor are unkno'mn
and unimagined by' the dignitaries of that Church, which
boasts of Athanasius as one of her great lights in other days,
and claims St. Mark'as her founder. When I.had the honor
of seeing the patriarch, some ’days ago, he received me very
kindly, and invited me to a place near himself, on the eleva-
ted diwan or raised seat, in the court of his residence. His
personal appearance is not prepossessing; he is a man of per-
haps sixty years of age; his face is heavy, dull, and, except
when lighted up by excitement, rather stupid and unmeaning;
and, so far as I could gather from the conversation carried on
by Mr. Lieder, and occasionally made clear to me, his holi-
ness had no idea of America, asked no questions, and felt no
interest in regard: to its spiritual condition; and had conﬁned
his mind to an‘ extremely limited range of subjects. . I found
it quite as difﬁcult to get any information from this quarter,
as from any other, in regard to the number of the churches
and Coptic Christians in Cairo. The patriarch said that there
were thirty churches in and about the metropolis, but that, I
know from other sources, is not correct, being greatly over-
stated. Of the spiritual condition of this decayed branch of
the Church, it would have been idle to have asked particulars,
especially as what passed convinced me that the patriarch had
not thought much on" that point, and probably deemed it
secondary to maintaining and increasing the power of the
Church, and going precisely through. the stated routine of
forms and ceremonies. After ashort time spent in rather
unsatisfactory conversation, we took' our leave, with, on‘ my
part, I confess, a feeling of considerable disappointment. '
When in Upper Egypt, you may recollect, I sent you a
brief account of a visit paid to some Coptic churches, and at-
tempted, I fear not very successfully, to describe one to you;
as I felt great interest in this corrupt branch of the Catholic
Church, I determined at some period to endeavor to be pres-
cut at the public services, and see how nearly they assimi-

