PorfuLA'rmN OF THE ANCIENT CITY. ‘313

impossible course to the ancient walls, and so on ; yet, I am
persuaded, that had not Dr. Clarke been excessively fond of
theorizing, and had he not written at so late a date, as prob-
ably to have forgotten all that he learned during his few days’
sojourn in Jerusalem; and had Mr. Fergusson ever seen the
Holy City with his own eyes, instead of through the imper-
fect glasses of travellers, neither the one nor the other would
have published to the world the results of his labors and re-
searches.

The statement made above, in regard to the extent of the
modern city, suggests another remark. We found the Holy
City to be two miles and a half in circuit, and the popu-
lation is variously estimated from 12,000 up to 30,000.
Ancieutly, no doubt, the area within the walls was very
much greater, including a large part of the slope of Mount
Zion, and the hill Ophel to the east between it and the Val-
ley of Jehoshaphat; the present city, too, is capable of con-
taining a population considerably larger than it now has;
but, even supposing the widest extent, and giving the num-
ber of inhabitants the greatest possible, for the space within
the walls, how shall we account for the immense numbers
of which Josephus speaks, when he tells us that 1,100,000
perished during the siege under Titus, and that at a pass-
over some years previous there were assembled nearly
3,000,000 of people? I profess to you, I do not very clearly
see how we are to excuse the historian or his copyists from
some strange error, since I can hardly imagine it possible, by
any means whatever, to crowd so many hundreds of thousands
into a city of the size of ancient Jerusalem. Mr. Fergusson
roundly rejects the entire statement of Josephus, accuses
him of wilful falsehood, and does not believe the city capable
of holding over ﬁfty to sixty thousand inhabitants, under any
circumstances; Dr. Robinson thinks the estimate “ doubtless
greatly exaggerated ;” Mr. Bartlett, remarking that the cir-

cumference of the Holy City never at best exceeded a space
14

