REMAINS 0F ANCIENT PLACES. 257

kind; but in Palestine, where the rains are abundant and at
frequent intervals, the huts or houses are generally built of
stone, and sometimes plastered with mud, having roofs of
poles or beams, laid across, and over these, thick layers of
dirt; grass, &c., by 'which means, the occupants are protected
from the wet, and can easily keep themselves comfortable dur-
ing the vicissitudes of heat and cold. Late in the afternoon,
we crossed a small stream, which is named the Brook Sorek,
on Palmer’s map, having in sight, at intervals, the Mediter-
ranean, and being about one hour distant from Esdud, or
Ashdod, on our left. This, you will recollect, was one of the
ﬁve cities of the Philistines; Irby and Mangles visited it in
October, 1817, and give an interesting account of some ruins
in'the immediate vicinity. Gath is marked on Palmer’s map
as about the same distance to the east of our road as Ashdod-
Was to the west; Dr. Robinson does not mark it on his map,
since he was not able to ﬁnd any traces of the name through-
out the present region.* In the times of the Romans, the
city was called Azotus, and is mentioned in the eighth chap-
ter of the Acts, fortieth verse"; it was here, that Philip was
found, after he had preached Jesus unto the eunuch of queen
Candace, and baptized him into the ‘true faith of our'Lord
and Saviour. Shortly before seven, P.M., we came to our
proposed place of encampment, very much fatigued with
eleven hours in the saddle, and glad to rest from the labors
of the day. '

We rose very early on the morning of “Thursday before
Easter,” in order to get through as much of the journey as-
we could before the heat of the day, and also to secure: as’
early an arrival in Jerusalem as was possible : and that 'we
might have no cause of delay, we mounted our horses, and
with our dragoman to lead the way, pushed onward, leaving
the camels and luggage to follow us more leisurely. I re 1
gr'etted particularly, that I did not feel as well as usual, since

* See Robinson’s “Biblical Researches,” vol. ii. pp. 420, 421.

