370 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

of an ancient khan. Several ruined towns or villages were
very near our road, but I could not learn the names very
satisfactorily. The hills now begin to be covered with bushes,
and the ﬁelds of the fellahin are more common. On an ele-
vated position, some distance to the left, is the ruined most:
of Neby Yunes, where there are other remains of perhaps an
older town. This is supposed to be the site of Halhul, men-
tioned in Joshua, xv. 58, in describing the borders of the
tribes.

“In a plain near by, a battle was fought in 1192, between
Richard Coaur de Lion and Salah ed-Din, in which the for-
mer cut his wayito the sea-side through the forces of the
Sultan. A mile at least from the great road is Kamel el
'Khalil, or the House of Abraham. Here are remains of a
sufﬁciently solid character to warrant the belief that they
were erected at the same time as those around the Sepulchre,
or the enclosure of the Haram es-Sherif at Hebron. The
road now descends through narrow valleys in which the vine
is growing, while the hill-side is also covered with terraced
plantations. From' the top of a hill, just before commencing
the general descent toward. Hebron, you catch a glimpse of
the plain of the land of the Philistines, with the sea beyond.
The towers about Hebron are occupied by the men who
watch the vineyards and also the ﬂocks round about.

“ Passing along over a rudely-paved road between the high
walls of the vineyards, we came to the outer buildings of
Hebron at half-past twelve o’clock, having occupied just‘ﬁve
hours in our trip from Jerusalem. The valley we have just
descended ‘is generally assumed to be the Eshcol (Numb. xiii.
23) of the Old Testament, whence the spies brought back the
cluster of grapes to Kadesh; and apparently not without
reason. The character of its fruit still corresponds to its an—
cient celebrity; pomegranates and ﬁgs, as well as apricots,
guinces, and the like, still grow in abnndanoc.’*

* Robinson’s “ Biblical Researdusf’ voL i. p. 3l6.

a

