360 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

in consequence of a want of a draught of water for several
hours, to warn the traveller in these hot climates, especially
to make provision for a supply of water Wherever he goes,
that he may not imprudently drink, when he is heated, the
cold water out of the deep cisterns sometimes found by the
road-side, and may not be compelled to ride or walk for hours
exposed to the hot sun without a supply of this necessary and
refreshing element.

About half past two, having traversed a narrow, stony
valley,* we came to those vast receptacles for water, com-
monly known as “ Solomon’s Pools.” We had been riding
for some little time by the side of, and over the aqueduct
which carries the water from the pools to Bethlehem, and so
on to the great mosk built on the site of the temple in Je-
rusalem. There were evident traces of antiquity about the
aqueduct, and in several places it was much out of repair;
nevertheless, it was not difﬁcult to see and feel its importance
not only to Bethlehem, but to the Holy City itself. The pools
of -Solomon are really grand and striking from their extent
and their great antiquity, and they are worthy his distin-
guished Wisdom and the glory of his reign. Fancy to your-
self three immense reservoirs, built with great care, of solid
masonry, and in close proximity to one anothem‘ Being com

* Speaking of this locality Maundrell remarks: “Below the pools there runs
down a narrow, rocky valley, enclosed on both sides with high mountains. This
the friars will have to be the enclosed garden, alluded to in the same place of
the Cauticles before cited (ch. iv. 12): ‘a garden enclosed is my sister, my
spouse; :1 spring shut up, a fountain sealed.’ What truth there may be in this
conjecture, I cannot absolutely pronounce. As to the pools, it is probable
enough they might be the same with Solomon’s, there being not the like store
of excellent spring water to be met with anywhere else throughout all Palestine:
but, for the gardens, one may safely afﬁrm, that, if Solomon made them in the
rocky ground which is now assigned for them, he demonstrated greater power
and wealth in ﬁnishing his design, than he did wisdom in choosing the place
for it.”—Maundrell's “Journey,” 4-5., April 1st.

1’ I was not able to measure the pools myself, as I had intended; Dr. Rob-
inson’s measurements are as follows: Lower pool; length, 582 (1., breadth, E.
end, 207 3., W. end, 148 (L, depth, 50 feet; middle pool, length, 423 it, breadth,

