460 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

, lic buildings we passed by without examination, as the cas-
tle, the mosks, the hospitals, storehouses, &,c.; and on one or
two occasions, when we purposed looking at matters a little
more closely, we were very unceremoniously ordered away
by the Turkish ofﬁcers in command. As we were walking
through one of the streets, we came upon the monument of
Lieutenant-Colonel Walker, who served in the defence of
Akka, in 1840, and lost his life in consequence of his great
zeal and excessive devotion to the cause of the unworthy
allies of England on that occasion: We felt indignant to no-
tice the deﬂlement and insult which had been heaped upon
this marble cenotaph, by the bigoted and fanatical soldiery
and others, who could thus forget and treat with indignity
the monument of one who fought in their behalf. Among
the mosks, the most curious one, in our eyes, was that of
the notorious J ezzar Pasha; it contains the tomb of the pasha,
and Dr. Wilson has copied and translated the inscription on

it, as follows :—

“He is THE LIVING ONE THE IMMORTAL.

This is the tomb of him who requires mercy, who is needful of
the forgiveness of the one forgiver, the Haji Ahmad Basha, the
Butcher (Jezzar). On him be the mercy of the dear forgiver.
A. H. 1219 (=A.D. 1804), on the 17th Muharram.”

It was a strange fancy, but from this it appears that the
wretch, whose cold-blooded cruelties obtained for him the
name, actually rejoiced and gloried in the title of “Butcher.”
What a singular ambition was his!

Early in the afternoon, we took our departure from Akka,
leaving it, and all its reminiscences of the past, with consider-
able regret. We should have liked to have gone over in de-

was informed that some thirty families, or about 150 persons, were Jews: one of
their number told him that they were “ merchants, oil<men, dressers of cotton,
pedlars, pipe-head manufacturers, ﬁshermen, and confectioners.” The number
of the Christians of all sects is about 1000 or 1500.

