338 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

self,” when he desired to purify and adorn the place of our
Lord’s resurrection, “already,” as he says, “exposed to en-
tire oblivion and misapprehension,”—exposed to such a result
because it had been covered up ever since Hadrian’s time by
a large heap of earth, and dedicated to the Worship of a hea-
then deity. And though the emperor, in his epistle to Ma.
carius, does use strong language, styling the recovery of “the
sign of the holy passion of the Saviour,” so long concealed
beneath the earth, “a miracle, or wonder, subdme beyond
conception,” still it is not beyond what we might expect on
the occasion, considering the character of the age; and, as
Mr. Williams says, “was it<not a reasonable cause of amaze-
ment to those who witnessed it, that the pagans, when they
soughtto obliterate the memory of the spot, should have left
the cave entire; and that, notwithstanding so long conceal-
ment, it should come forth unharmed, presenting, as it were,
a ﬁgure of the resurrection, in its own recovery? and will
not this satisfy the strong language of the emperor’s letter T”
We may admit, as I certainly do, that there is much of ex-
aggeration, and much that is untrue, in the account relative
to the ﬁnding of the “true cross ;” yet, surely, that does not
bind- me to set aside the historical evidence in favor of the
sites of Calvary and the Tomb of Christ; surely it is going
too far to say that, because unauthorized marvels in the
course of time were heaped upon the alleged discovery of the
“ true cross,” therefore all the testimony of history, tradition,
and the common, well-understood principles of human nature,
is nugatory and valueless; surely, there is no logical or nec-
essary connection between, the 'suspiciousness or the “ work
of pious fraud,” as Dr. R. terms the invention of the cross,
and the genuineness of the Holy Sepulchre : the one has every
improbability in the world against it; no one had heard of

‘ “Holy City,” vol. i. p. 239,—Tischendorﬁ‘ understands the words above
quoted from Eusehius, to refer to the discovery of the cross, and it may be Cor-
rectly. It does not matter much, either way.

