420’ EGYPT AND ‘THE HOLY‘ 'L'AND. -

eratibii in Biblical questions: ’ I‘ was very sorry that our time.
was so limited, and so little opportunity was afforded us for
making some research into the'interesting questions connected
with this manuscript; but we had no alternative, and were
compelled to bid Our old friend"adieu, much gratiﬁed on the
whole, and yet regretting 'the lack of those things which we
had not' in our powerf" Tischendorl? visited Nablus ﬁve
years‘ago, and gives an interesting account of what he saw
and experienced. As‘ his name' is distinguished in matters
relating to ancient manuscripts, I may be allowed to quote a
sentence oritWo from his “ Travels in the East,” with regard
to this relic of other days 2+“ I was chieﬂy occupied with the
alleged exceedingly'ancient manuscript, which is said to con-
tain a” statement to the-effect that it was written thirteen
years after the death of Moses, by Abischua, the son of
Phineas, Who was grandson of Aaron. The rabbi brought us
a tin case, within which lay the manuscript, like a large
synagogue roll of parchment, enveloped in a costly covering
of crimson silk, with embroidered golden letters. It- bears
undeniable traces of antiquity. I examined the parchment,
the color of the ink, the system of the lines, the punctuation,
the divisions (none of which have initials), and the characters,
as (well as they could be examined Without a knowledge of
the Samaritan. All combine to convey the idea of a manu-
script of the sixth century. Even under this supposition, it
necessarily holds a very distinguished rank among all the
ancient parchment codices of both the East and West
With =r'espect to the alleged statement, it may not, if in fact
it exist, be considered otherwise than as atranscript, careless-
ly copied from former documents,'and incorporated in it as a
note founded on a remote tradition. Perhaps this Abischua
took some share in writing the original Pcntateuch.”’r

‘ I must beg to refer you to Dr. Robinson for an interesting account of the
correspondence with the Samaritans by occidental scholars, and of the litera-
ture of this smallcommunity. See the “ Biblical Rescue/Lu,” vol. iii. p. 129—134.

T “ Travels in the East,” p. 219. ‘

