LAST DAYS' OF THE HOLY‘WEEK. 291

be s'orrow’ful,’ saith‘St. Matthew (xxvi. 37). ‘He began tobe
sore amazed,’ saith St. Mark (xiv. 33), ‘ and to be very heavy,’
say both (ibid) : and yet these words in‘ our translation, come
far short of the original expressions, which render Him ‘s‘ud-
denly, upon a present and immediate apprehension, possessed
\vith fear, horror and amazement, encompassed with grief, and.
overwhelmed with sorrow, pressed down with consternation
and dejeetion of mind, tormented with anxiety and disquie-
tude of spirit.” And again: “If the true eontrition of one
single sinner, bleeding under the sting of the Law only for
his own iniquities, all which notwithstanding, he knoweth
not, cannot be performed without great bitterness of sorrow
and remorse; what bounds can we set unto that grief, what
measures to that anguish, which proceedeth from a full ap-
prehension of all the transgressions of So many milliOns of
sinners ?”* ‘

\Vhile standing or kneeling here, how vividly do the events
of the Holy Week seem to present themselves before us! It
will be proﬁtable to our souls’ health, to call to mind, and to
go over, step by step, the last days of His passion in our be-
half. Qn the evening of VVednesday, the ﬁrst day ‘of un-
leavened bread began,’r and it would seem that it was mainly
spent with His disciples on the MOunt of Olives, or in this
garden, where he was accustomed to meet and discourse with
them, and whither he returned ofttimes for solitary medita-
tion and prayer. The next morning, “ Thursday before
Easter,” in the Church’s calendar, He sent Peter and John to

*Bp. Pearson’s “ Exposition If the Creed,” p. 281—983.

1‘ It is necessary to bear in mind, that the day among the Jews began at sun-/'
set of the day previous; thus, after six o’clock, or sunset, on Wednesday, it was
the next day, or Thursday; aﬁer the same hour on Thursday, it was Friday, or
the day of our Lord’s cruciﬁxion, on which day He instituted the Lord’s Supper,
was betrayed byJudas, was condemned to death, was cruciﬁed, dead and buried ;
the Sabbath began at sunset on Friday. Hence our Lord's body was in the
Sepulchre, part of Friday, all of Saturday, and a part of Sunday, which was
he third day, and the one on which His glorious resurrection took place.

