COURSE on THE SECOND WALL. 331

been far distant, because that part of Zion was then high and
steep.” Mr. W. devotes a number of pages to the consider-
ation of Dr. R.’s statements, and by a skilful induction of
circumstances, shows clearly, to my mind, that the learned
professor is in error, in assuming the close proximity of the
gate to the Hippie Tower; but even “admitting the gate
Gennath to have been absolutely close to Hippicus, which,”
as Mr. Bartlett confesses, “is far from probable,” still it is
not of very special moment; for, as the same writer candidly
acknowledges, notwithstanding he agrees with Dr. Robinson
in disbelieving in the genuineness of the Holy Sepulchre,
“ the utmost sweep that the second wall could even then have
made, embraces a very limited space, little more than the
other; and unacquainted as we are with the motive which
may have decided the builders on a particular course, it is,
perhaps, too much to say, that the wall never could have ex-
cluded the present sepulchre, and that on this ground alone,
its site is mistaken.”* According to Dr. R., then, “the second
wall ran ﬁrst from near Hippicus northwards, across the
higher and more level part of Akra; and then sweeping round
to the valley between Akra and Bezetha, somewhere in the
vicinity of the present Damascus gate, either followed,” &0.
Again he says, that unless it took this direction, the large
pool, called by him, the pool of Hezekiah, must have been
excluded. Let us examine these statements a little more
closely. As respects the pool, termed by Dr. R., the pool of
Hezekiah, there is no sort of authority for attributing it to
that monarch ; all that can he urged in its favor, is a recent
tradition drawn from an Italian monk, in the seventeenth
century, and confessedly of little or no value; and as the
Christians and Mohammedans, even now, only know it
by the name of the Pool of the Holy Sepulchre, or the
Pool of the Bath, and as the earlier writers and travel-
lers held no such view, or had ever heard of this opinion,

* “ Walks about Jerusalem,” p. 91, 92.

