170 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

tances, and supporting the ceiling, which is vaulted between
the architraves, and ornamented in a manner, which is, even
at this remote period, striking to a high degn‘ce. The ceiling
is about twenty feet high in the most elevated parts: the
columns, I ought to mention, are, according to the Egyptian
custom, painted or stained with a reddish color, in imitation
of granite,* and might readily deceive a cursory observer.
On the walls are numerous paintings, representing scenes, in
general like those alluded to above: the ﬁgures of the men, it
struck me, were frequently badly proportioned, and stiff and
unnatural in many instances, the arms, particularly, being
extravagantly long, and out of 'shape. Most of the animals
are well represented; and the ﬁsh on the wall opposite the
doorway, are decidedly superior to anything which I have
seen in Egypt; they would not discredit even some of our
present artists.

-It is a question of some moment, in connection with this
grotto, which may easily be distinguished by the ﬁsh, painted
on the wall opposite the entrance, to ascertain to whom we
are to refer the procession of strangers, represented on the
upper part of the north wall. It has been supposed, that as
these caves were made in the time of Osirtasen, during whose
reign, it is thought by some Writers of eminence, Joseph came
into Egypt, the persons here set before our eyes might be Jo-
seph’s brethren, and that thus we might have one of the
most authentic and most deeply interesting mementoes, of an
age fraught with importance to the chosen people. Of course,
I do not feel myself competent to decide in a case of so much

* “ All the caves of Beni-Hassan are ornamented with colored ﬁgures, or
other ornamental devices; and the columns, with the lower part of the walls,
in the northern grottoes, are stained of a red color to resemble granite, in order
to give them an appearance of greater solidity. These imitations of hard stone
and rare wood, were very commonly practised by the Egyptians, though it is
a singular fact that granite and other stone used in their monuments, being
generally colored, could not be distinguished.”—“Hand Book ﬁJr Egypt,”
p. 294.

