60 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

history and literature, which the last half-century has pro-
duced. I need but mention the names of such men as Ham-
ilton, Belzoni, Richardson, Rosselini, the French savans, Wil-
kinson, Vyse, Osburn, Lane, Lepsius, &c., to call to your
recollection the pleasure and improvement drawn from their
productions, and to induce you to refer to their elaborate vol-
umes for the particulars which I cannot now pretend to give.
All that I shall attempt on this occasion will be, to give you
a brief abstract of the more probable opinions which have at
times prevailed, or still hold sway, in respect to 1) the date
and founders of the Pyramids, and 2) their intended uses.

-1. The question as to the date and founders of the Pyra-
mids opens at once, as you perceive, a vast ﬁeld of inquiry,
and if treated properly, and at all fully, involves the necessity
of entering into that very perplexing, but very important
branch of human learning, ancient chronology; I shall not,
however, presume here to do more than allude to some things
which perhaps I may be able at a later day to discuss more at
large. Following the chronological table given by Sir Gard-
ner Wilkinson, the Great Pyramid was built about BC. 2123;
the Second, BC. 2083; the Third, B.C. 2043. The same
high authority makes Abraham to have visited Egypt RC.
1920, and the Exodus to have taken place B.C. 1491. Era-
tosthenes, as quoted by Syncellus in his Chronicle, gives the
date of Saophis or Suphis (‘the same as Cheops in Herodotus)
as BC. 1853 ; Suphis II. (Cephrenes) BC. 1824; Moscheres
(Mycerinus) BC. 1797. Dr. Hales, in his “New Analysis
of Chronology,” states that the First Pyramid was begun
about BC. 2095; that Abraham visited Egypt 30. 2077;
and that the Exodus occurred RC. 1648. A learned young
friend of mine, Mr. Reginald Stuart Poole, at present a resi-
dent of Cairo, places the reign of Suphis I., builder of the
Great Pyramid, BC. 2350, and dates the Exodus BC.
1652* Townsend (who, with many divines of note, follows

'* See “Literary Gazette,” No. 1702. Land. Se t. 1st, 18 .
I p

