.14

cool) FRIDAY EVE. 293

watch with Him. But they were asleep; their 'sorrow had
overcome them, and, forgetful of His warnings, they'ne'glected
the needful preparation of watchfulness and prayer, to 'ﬁt
them for the trials even now at hand. Twice He came to
thein and rebuked them for their conduct: Why sleep ye?
Simon, sleepeth thou? could ye not Watch with me one
hour? The third time, after He had drunk the cup of agony
to its very dregs, He came to them and saith unto them, sleep
on now, and take your rest; it matters not now; it is
enough , the hour is come; behold the Son of Man is betrayed
into the hands of sinners.

And while He Is yet speaking, see, the hillside 1s alive with
armed men, torches gleaming, and a band of soldiers coming
on. See them as they approach; they descend into the valley,
they cross the brook, they advance to the garden where Jesus
is ; and 0, see, the traitor is at'their head: the traitor comes
fotward; the traitor dares to meet his innocent Master, and
to salute that sacred cheek with a kiss: to the traitor was
addressed the severe rebuke, which should have stricken him
to the earth—“ Judas, betrayest thou the Son of Man with 'a
kiss 1’” What confusion l'olloizvsl The soldiers, on our Loi-d’s
naming Himself, go backward and fall to the ground; the
impetuous Peter draws a sword, and smites off the ear of the
High Priest’s servant: the Lord J esu's suffers Himself to be
apprehended and led away by the band ; and all the disciples,
the Self-conﬁdent Peter among the rest, forsake the Savio'ui',
and take to ﬂight. Alone, and abandoned to His mortal enemies,
He IS taken in the dead of night,' 1n bonds and suﬂ‘ering contu-
mely and insult, to the house of Annas ﬁrst, thence to the palace
of Caiaphas, the high priest, and thence to the Praetorium or
Pilate. The mo‘ckings and insults which He’ endured for‘ our
sake, the detestable hypocrisy of the Jewish authorities, the
heartless reviling and abuse of Herod and his men, the
cool, unblushingn injustide and wrong inflicted by the vaeil-
lating Roman; the foul indignities heaped ripen Him by the

