REMINISCENCES or BETHLEHEM. 367

cording to the decree of the Emperor Augustus; and here:
she dwelt till “the days were accomplished that she should‘
be delivered.” Here Christ Jesus was born, the Saviour of
the world, the Desire of all nations, the long-expected Mes-
siah: here our Lord and our God “ took not on Him the na-
ture of angels, but He took on Him the seed of Abraham,”*
and was “a. light to lighten the Gentiles, and the glory of
the people Israel.”t Not far from this highly honored city,
abiding in the ﬁeld, were shepherds keeping Watch over their
ﬂock by night; and perhaps near the very spot where we
were now passing, that scene of glory occurred, of which the
Evangelist speaks. Bright were the stars which in their
courses roll; brilliant were the heavens as these simple shep-
herds gazed upon them; but surpassingly magniﬁcent was
that glory of the Lord which shone round about them, as
with fear and trembling they prostrated themselves in adora-
tion before the throne of God. And What a message of love
and mercy was that which they heard! “ Fear not, said the
angel, for behold I bring you good tidings of great joy, which
shall be to all people. For unto you is born this day in the
city of David a Saviour, which is Christ the Lord. And this
shall be a sign unto you : ye shall ﬁnd the Babe wrapped in
swaddling clothes, lying in a manger.”i What celestial har-
mony was that which their ears were permitted to listen to l.
for “suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the
heavenly host, praising God, and saying, Glory to God in the
highest, on earth peace, good-will towards men.” Ah, with
what alacrity did they go even unto Bethlehem, to see that
thing which was come to pass, which the Lord had made
known unto them; and when they had seen the Holy Child
and the virgin mother, as it had been told them by the angel,
With What joy and conﬁding faith did they spread abroad the
good news of God’s infinite Compassion to our race in sending
His Son, His only Son, into the world! Here, too, did the

. Heb. ii. 16. 1‘ Luke, ii. 32.. z; Luke, ii. 10—12.

