‘RUINS 0F JERICHO. 395

arm raised to assault those walls, brought down their conﬁ-
dence in a moment, and the walls fell ﬂat to the earth, and
the city and people were captives in the hands of Joshua.
Subsequently, its importance was to some extent revived;
,and in our Saviour’s days, it was a large and noted city of
the priesthood. Here He lodged with Zaccheus, the rich and
honest tax-gatherer; and here He healed the blind man. It
ﬁgured, too, in the later history of Palestine. But in the
lapse of ages, it fell into utter min, and now has nothing to
tell where it. once stood, or to evidence its former wealth,
power, and greatness. It will be well if other cities, now so
proud, so strong, so conﬁdent of perpetual existence, lay to
heart the lessons which the desolation and entire ruin of cities
and empires in the East so forcibly and so constantly teach.
It was with solemnized feelings that I rode through this
petty village, and crossing a woody and very fertile plain be-
yond, sought the appointed place of encampment, where our
party was to meet and pass the night. After considerable
search, we found the Bedawin and our-servant. They had
pitched the tent on the bank of a babbling, smiling brook,
which comes from Ain es-Sultan, or the Fountain of Elisha,
and furnishes thencighboring village and plain with an abun~
dant supply of pure and sweet water.* It was a lovely spot,
and particularly inviting to us at this time; because we
were not a little fatigued and worn down with the length of -
our excursion, and the intense heat of the sun during the day.
I do not suppose. that we are more fond than others of eating
and drinking, but on the present occasion, we were not sorry
‘ Mr. Buckingham, (“ Travels,” &c. p. 292) gives an account of the Fountain
of Elisha, which is worth quoting: “ The head of this water is enclosed in a
basin ofa triangular shape, of which each side is about three fathoms in length.
It is lined with wrought stone, and is even paved in parts. There are two
niches in one of its sides, which is higher than the others, and an oriﬁce by
which the water issues, in astream sufﬁcient to turn a mill. It is said that
several sources discharge themselves into the same basin ; but their depth pre-r

vents them from being explored,” . See, also, Robinson’s “ Bib. Res.” vol. ii. p_
983, 284. . . , _ _;

