220 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

thirty-five years old. As I looked at him, I felt that it would
be a sorry matter to be within his power, if one should have
happened to come across his path of lust and sensuality. Mr:
Macauley was conducted to the right of the Pasha, who got
down from his seat, and made an awkward sort of how on his
entrance. Both the Pasha and all present remained standing
while he received the ﬁrman of the Sultan, touched it with
his lips, raised it reverentially to his forehead, and then handed
it over to an attendant ofﬁcer. Mr. Todd, the consul, Capt!
Gwynne, and others of less note, occupied positions ncar Mr.
Macauley, on the same side: poor I got off on the left, among
a. number of persons as insigniﬁcant and unnoticed as myself.
Immediately after we were seated, a number of eunuchs and
slaves, dressed, for a wonder, in coats and pantaloons, brought
in pipes with jewelled mouth-pieces, and coffee, presenting
the Pasha with his, 0n bended knee. The honor of a pipe
and cup of coffee, however, was conﬁned to a few, even, of‘
the dignitaries present, which I thought rather queer hospi-
tality. Mr. Macauley made a short speech in French, which
was translated to the Pasha by his interpreter, a ﬁne-looking
fellow. Abbas succeeded in getting out a compliment or two;
but anything like the tact and skill of Mohammed Ali, in
conversation, was too deep for him. So, after a rather ridic;
ulous silence, for some little time, he sent for the present he
intended to bestow on the consul-general. It was a handsome
sword or sabre, whicl' was put on Mr. M., in presence of the
Pasha; and, together With the horse outside, was bestowed
on the representative of America, in a pretty little speech,
made by the interpreter. Another half French bow was
graciously given to Mr. M. and party, after which We took
our leave, partly vexed, but more inclined to be amused, at.
the way in which the thing had gone off. Altogether, it was
an insipid aﬁ'air, and did not tend to raise Abbas Pasha in
our estimation. 'Nor do I thinli that he would have felt
particularly complaisant to our countrymen and others, could

