432 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

emotions, as the next morning, bright and early, we bade
adieu‘to Jenin, the ill-favored and inhospitable town, and
entered upon the plain of Esdraelon: it was not merely the
marvellous change from a hilly region, ofttimes sterile, sad,
and gloomy, to the Widely-extended, fertile and magniﬁcent
plain over which lay our route ; it was something more ; for,
around this plain are situate some of the most interesting
places noticed in Holy Writ, and on Esdraelon have been
fought the battles of century after century. Gilboa, Jezreel,
Shuuein, Nain, Endor, Tabor, Nazareth, Carmel, the Kishon,
Megiddo,—what deep and stirring thoughts do they excite in
the mind ? Deborah and Barak, Gideon the mighty man of
valor, Saul and Jonathan, the Maccabees, the Romans,.the
Saracens, the Crusaders, the gallant Kleber, Napoleon,—__
what memories of other days do these names call up ;* and
who that crosses this great battle-ground of ages, can do it
without emotions, or without a fervent prayer for the speedy
and entire sway of the Prince of Peace ?

Our course was nearly north after leaving Jenin; and
though we rode at a tolerably good pace, we were between
three and a half and four hours in crossing the plain; a fact
which may help to give you some idea of its vast extent. I
shall fail, however, in attempting to convey to you anything
of a clear conception of the fertility and beauty of the plain
of Esdraelon, as we have seen it under its present aspect;
when the waving ﬁelds of grain, giving promise of a rich har-
vest, are around and about you at every step; when you be-

* “ It has been a chosen place for encampment in every contest carried on in
this country, from the days of Nabuohodonosor, king of the Assyrians (in the
history of whose war with Arphaxad it is mentioned as the great plain of
Esdrelom), until the disastrous march of Napoleon Bonaparte from Egypt into
Syria. Jews, Gentiles, Saracens, Christian Crusaders, and anti-Christian
Frenchmen, Egyptians, Persians, Druses, Turks, and Arabs, warriors outtof
every nation that is under heaven, have pitched their tents upon the plain of
Esdraelon, and have beheld the various banners of their nations wet with the

dews ofTabor and of Hermon.”—Dr. Clarke’s “ Travels in Greece, Egypt,” &c.
(:11. xv. '

