E. W. LANE, ESQ., AND FAMILY. 221

he have heard the free, and not altogether complimentary re-
marks which were made about him, at Mr. Macauley’s levee,
that afternoon. However, let me not condemn him without
reserve: he is but an agent in the hands of greater men,
whose thoughts are turned towards Egypt, and who, when
the time comes, will sweep him away, and all that belongs
to him, without a moment’s hesitation. The Christian man,
too, cannot doubt, that both he, and they who use him, are
only instruments in the hands of God, for carrying out His
designs with reference to the East, as well as the West: and
if I may venture to speak of what is yet future, I may ex-
press the decided conviction, that the day is fast approaching
when Mohammedanism will sink into nothingness, and pass
away, and the Gospel of Christ will resume its supremacy
over those fair and fertile regions, so long groaning under the
yoke of heresy and schism, and the foul imposture of Mo-
hammed. May it soon be, “that the Word of the Lord may
have free course, and be gloriﬁed.”

It would be unjust in a high degree, and wholly contrary
to my own feelings, not to speak of one whom I am proud
to have the honor of knowing, and who is no less distin-
guished as an author and profound orientalist, than a man
of liberal, large mind and heart. You know, my dear 3.,
my tastes and habits, and you can well understand what
pleasure it was to me to visit and spend many an hour at
the house of Mr. Lane, where I enjoyed the delights of social
and literary intercourse in their fullest extent. Rarely have
I met with a learned man so interesting and so attractive,
so full of matter, and so wholly free from pedantry and as-
sumption; and were it allowed to speak of those things
which I know and feel, but which belong rather to the sa-
credness of private intercourse, I might tell you much of the
increased pleasure afforded me by having become acquainted

with Mrs. Lane, Mrs. Poole, (Mr. Lane’s sister, and author
* 2 Thess.,iii. 1.

