278 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

ported the project from the beginning, there has not been
produced the good which was expected, and there have been
stirred up feelings and objections, which might have been
looked for, but which are deeply to be deplored in all questions
of this kind. The Lutheran clergy are indignant, as a body,
that they should be excluded from ministering in a church,
founded and supported, in great measure, by a Lutheran
king; and, as an intelligent layman from Berlin warmly de-
clared to me one day, they look upon the king of Prussia as
.uaving betrayed and insulted their church, and they seem
disposed to visit no little of their censure upon the Church of
England, for her share in the matter. Similar sentiments
are avowed by Tischendorﬁ', in his remarks on the “Anglican
bishopric at J erusalein ;”: and they appear'to me to be well
worth the consideration of all interested in this question.*
In the opposite direction, we know that a large number of the
clergy and laity in England, highly disapproved and refused
to sanction the amalgamation between the‘ English Church
and the established form of religion in Prussia, a fact which
has tended to draw off the interest of many, not only from
this particular matter, but from the question of the Jewish .
mission itself. I am not going to venture upon a discussion
upon the merits of this subject, looked at in all its bearings:
my feelings are decidedly against all attempts to form a union
with those who differ from our Church on points of so much
importance as the constitution of the‘Church and its ministry,
for I believe, in every case, such attempts have been produc-
tive of no permanent good results. But, as the bishopric is
established, and the present occupant of the Episcopal chair
is laboring diligently to carry out the object of his 'appoint-
ment, I hope and trust that God may send His choicest
blessings upon both bishop arid clergy, and that they may see
and rejoice in the fruits of their self-denying labors in His
cause. Just at present, the number of converts is small, and

‘ “ Trends in. the East," p. 158—166.

