THE ACTS on JOSHUA ON THE MOUNT. 417’

season if possible. We rambled about somewhat before break-
fast, and climbed up nearly to the top of Mount Gerizim.
We were very much gratiﬁed with the View spread out before
us at different points in our walk; for, though the mountain
summits of both Gerizim and Ebal are, in great measure,
sterile and harsh to the eye, the picture is softened, and ren-
dered indeed lovely by the fertile valley, rich in fruits. and
gardens, and flowers, and by the picturesque minarets and
ﬂat roofs of the houses, with central domes (as in Jerusalem),
of the city of Nablus ; we could not, too, but call to mind
the impressive account in the Holy Scripture, of the signiﬁ- .
cant ceremony here performed by the twelve tribes of Israel,
God being pleased to take this and every means to set before
His people the blessings of obedience and the curses of disobedi-
ence to His holy will and commandments. While Moses lived
God had enjoined upon him this striking service, and after-
wards, under the noble Joshua, when the armies of the children
of Israel had subdued Jericho and Ai, an altar was built unto
the Lord God in Mount Ebal. “ As Moses, the servant of the
Lord, commanded the children of Israel, as it is written in the
book of the Law of Moses, Joshua built an altar of whole stones,
over which no man hath lift up any iron; and they offered there-
on burnt-oﬂ'erings unto the Lord, and sacriﬁced peace-offer-
ings. And he wrote there upon the stones, 8. copy of the law of
Moses, which he wrote in the presence of the children of Israel.
And all Israel, and their elders, and ofliccrshand their judges,
stood on this side the ark, and on that side, before the priests,
the Levites, whichbare the ark of the covenant of the Lord, as
well the stranger as he that was born among them ; half of
them over against Mount Gerizim, and half of them over
against Mount Ebal.; as Moses, the servant of the Lord, had
commanded before, that they should bless the people of Israel.
And afterwards he read all the words of the law, the blessings
and cursings, according to all that is written in the book of

the law. There was not a word of all that Moses commanded
18*

