THE SEA OF TIBERIAS. 441

long and earnestly with us to enter the grand dwelling, assuring
us that the whole house was at our command—a fact which
we had no reason to doubt, seeing how dreary and desolate
the whole town appeared. In truth, never since the earth-
quake, in 1837, has Tiberias recovered its former condition;
and not only do the walls plainly show, in their rents and
breaches, the effects of that visitation, but the surviving in-
habitants wear still the marks of a grievous calamity, in their
poverty-stricken and woe-begcne appearance, and their listless
habits and manners. It may well be doubted whether, con-
sidering their present depressed condition and the half-ruinous
state of the walls of the town, the citizens and the few sol-
diers here stationed could make much head against an attack
of the Arabs.” '

You will readily enter into our feelings as we stood on the
shore of the beautiful lake of Tiberias, tasted its sweet water,
gazed upon its clear expanse, and called to mind its frequent
connection with the history of our Lord and Saviour. Inde-
pendently of its great natural beauty, embosomed amid the
hills, it has recollections of a kind and character which make
the deepest impression upon the Christian heart. How often
was He, the Redeemer, a dweller upon the shores of the lake
of Gennesarcth: how often was He upon its waters, crossing
and recrcssing its placid bosom: how frequently He taught
the people on its banks; and on how many occasions did He
exert His divine power on its shores, in healing the sick,
cleansing the leper, and making the blind to see and the
deaf to hear. From its vicinity, He chose His Apostles ,'
those honest and simple-minded ﬁshermen, whose memories
we reverence: here, He walked on the water, and saved from
sinking into its deep‘s the sanguine Peter ; here, He lay down
in the boat and slept when the storm came down on the lake,

* For an interesting account of Tiberias and its history, including that of its.
celebrated schools of Jewish learning, allow me to refer you to Dr. Wilson’s
" Lands qfthc Bible,” vol. ii. pile-122.

19

