VICINITY OF THE PYRAMTDS. 49

some wooden steps, now partly decayed; and also the tortu-
ous and irregular passage, termed “the Well,” which reaches
down to the passage ﬁrst entered from the outside. It is
nearly two hundred feet deep, and, according to Wilkinson,
was used by the workmen as a way of egress, after they
had closed the lower end of the upper passage with the block
of granite above spoken of ; though this seems to be hardly
a sufﬁcient explanation of the original purpose of forming
this passage. Leaving these, as well as the portion still
lower down, which was excavated by Col. Vyse, but with no
particular result, as not offering special inducements to us or
other ordinary travellers, I beg to refer you, should you feel
curious on the subject of the Pyramids, to the elaborate vol-
umes of Col. Vyse, the excellent work of Sir Gardner Wilkin-
son, the useful compend of Dr. Russell, or the learned treatise
of Champollion-Figeac, entitled “ Egypt‘s Ancienne.” All
these writers go into detail, and bring to bear an amount and
variety of learning and acuteness, far beyond anything to
which I can have the slightest pretension, or which would be
consistent with the object intended by these familiar letters.
On emerging from the interior we found ourselves in a
profuse perspiration, produced by the warmth of the atmos-
phere inside, and the exertion necessary to make one’s way
up and down through narrow, close passages, ﬁlled with per-
sons, and almost suffocating the visitor by the clouds of dust
there stirred up. As we purposed spending the night in our
tent on the plain below, we retired to it to rest and refresh
ourselves with a cup of tea, which was the more delightful
because of a lady’s presiding over our repast, and adding, by
her presence, to the enjoyment of a scene so novel and so in-
teresting in every respect. Subsequently we walked forth,
just as the sun was setting, and beheld, in the soft rays of
twilight and approaching evening, the impressive sight which
is presented by the Pyramids, the multitude of tombs on
every side, and the Sphinx, that most striking image, which
3

