EARLY TRAVELLEns? NOTIONS. 59

Some of the early Christian travellers have related the
traditions which prevailed in their days, which are more cu-
rious than proﬁtable. Bernard the Wise (AD. 867)‘ speaks
of “Babylon of Egypt, where once reigned King Pharaoh,
under whom Joseph built the seven granaries still remain-
ing.” Benjamin of Tudela, a Jewish traveller, (AD. 1168)
says, “the Pyramids, which are seen here, (at Old Mizraim)
are constructed by magic; and in no other country or other
place, is anything equal to them. They are composed of
stones and cement, and are very substantial." Sir John
Maundeville, (AD. 1322) who abounds in marvellous stories,
devotes a whole paragraph to the Pyramids: “Now I will
speak of another thing that is beyond Babylon, above the
Nile, toward the desert, between Africa and Egypt; that is,
of the granaries of Joseph, that he caused to be made, to
keep the grains against the dear years. They are made of
stone, well made by masons’ craft; two of them are marvel-
lously great and high, the others are not so great. And each
granary has a gate to enter within, a little above the earth;
for the land is wasted and fallen since the granaries were
made. Within they are full of serpents; and above the
granaries without are many writings in divers languages.
And some men say that they are sepulchres of great lords
that were formerly; but that is not true, for all the common
tumor and speech of the people there, both far and near, is
that they are the granaries of Joseph; and so ﬁnd they in
their writings and chronicles. On the other side, if they
were sepulchres, they would not be empty within; for you
may well know, that tombs and sepulchres are not made of
such magnitude or elevation; wherefore it is not credible
that they are tombs or sepulchres.”*

It is a relief to turn from such garrulity to the writings of
those learned and careful laborers in the ﬁeld of Egyptian

* See “Early Travels in Palestine,” one of Bohn‘s “ Antiquarian Library."
It will be observed that the Editor, Mr. Wright, has modernized the spelling, which
takes away somewhat from the quaintness and pith ofthe mediasvul writers.

