52 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

not very difﬁcult or dangerous, for he forgets or does not
notice the space he has gone over, and the angle at which he
has been mounting upward for some hundreds of feet; when,
however, he stands on the summit, and looking downward,
sees the smooth facing of the Pyramid, and the plain spread
out below, and While engaged in ﬁnding places for his feet,
in getting down, he beholds the dizzy height at which he is
placed, you will not wonder that an uncomfortable feeling
forces itself upon him, or that sometimes he loses his presence
of mind, and is in imminent danger of being precipitated
down the side of the Pyramid. As there was little to be
gained by running any risk of this sort, I did not venture
upon the ascent of the Second Pyramid; nor did we think it
worth while to go into the interior; for after the Great
Pyramid, everything appears indifferent by comparison, and
substantially the same remarks would apply to the interior

of this and the Third Pyramid, as to that which we took some

care to examine. A sloping passage, cased with granite, and

a long horizontal passage hewn through the rock, lead into

one main chamber, similar in form to the “ Queen’s Cham-

ber” in the Great Pyramid, and containing a plain granite

sarcophagus. It appears that this, like the other Pyramids,

had been opened by the khalifs, and re-closed. The enter-

prising and persevering Belzoni deserves the credit which he

has obtained, of opening the Pyramid of Cephrenes, amid dif-

ﬁculties and discouragements which would have broken down,
the energies of any less sanguine antiquarian than himself ;"‘

this was in the year 1816: Col. Vyse succeeded in laying

open the Third Pyramid in the year 1836; the Great Pyra-

mid was opened, according to Arab writers, by the khalif

Mamﬁn, son of the celebrated Harlin er Rashid, of the

“Arabian Nights’ ” memory; this was about AD. 820.

‘ Dr. Russell, in his “Ancient and Modern Egypt,” pp. 103—110, gives a very
interesting and full account of the labors of Belzoni in entering and exploring
the Second Pyramid: it is well Worth reading.

