ARAB AMUSEMENTS. 85

through the glass as she draws nearer, and as the case may
be, either board, or are boarded by her, when the folds. of the
Union Jack of Old England wave in the same breeze, almost
side by side, with the American stars and stripes. At other
times we ﬁnd amusement in the comic actions and'dances of
one of the men, whom we have named the buﬂ'oon, and who
is certainly a fellow of a good deal of wit naturally: if we
leave out of view the want of delicacy and reﬁnement, and
do not scruple to be pleased with rather low buﬁ'oonery, we
need not ever be at a loss for amusement, for Abu—’6f is al-
ways ready to dance, or sing, or play on reeds, or do almost
anything which may be asked ; and I must confess, that when
he gathers the whole crew around him, one man thumping
with his ﬁngers on what answers for a drum, another playing
on the reeds, the buﬂ'oon dancing and grimacing in the midst,
and the rest clapping their hands and singing a strain in tune
with the instruments, the scene is not wanting in picturesque-
ness or beauty.=x< Without always understanding the point
of the jokes which are made, I hope that, in consideration of
the circumstances, we shall not be severely censured for hav-
ing sometimes laughed at witticisms and repartees which
would pass muster nowhere else except on the Nile. But
when such things pall—as they speedily do—upon the taste,

* One of the most common musical instruments in use on’tbe Nile is a rude
kind of drum, termed “ darabukkeh.” It is larger at one and than the other, and
is about 1‘} ft. in length: the larger end is covered with a piece of ﬁshes’ skin,
while the smaller is left open. The Arabs generally place it under the left arm,
and beat it with both hands, so that it gives different sounds, accordingly as it is
beaten near the edge or in the middle. “ The boatmen of the Nile very often
use an earthen darabukkeh ; but of a larger size than that used in harems; gener~
ally from a foot and a half to two feet in length. The bontmen employ, as an
accompaniment to their drum, a double reed pipe, called ‘ zummarah.’ Thereis
also another kind of double reed pipe, called ‘arghoolg’ of which one of the
reeds is much longer than the other, and serves as a drone, or continuous bass.
This, likewise, is used by boatmen ; and sometimes it is employed instead of the
nay, at zikrs. Both of these reed pipes produce harsh sounds; and those of
the latter much resemble the sounds of the bag-pipe.”—Lane’s “ Midst-n Egyp-
tians " vol. ii. p. 89.

