GIOVANNI BATTISTA’S» names. 455

"got permission from 'the Sultan to undermine and blow up the
.remnants of the previous building. This Was in 1821, and as
nothing could then be done, Giovanni returned to Rome. But
he did not forget the desolation of Carmel, nor relinquish his
desires to rebuild the monastery'and hospice. In ’1826, he
fwent to Constantinople, and through the French ambassador
obtained ‘a ﬁrman authorizing him'to rebuild the monastery,
‘On reaching Haifa he found the last monk dead; 'so alone he
~W'ent to the mount, and there laid the.plan for erecting a new
ediﬁce on its summit;'yet,'he had 'no means; and ‘his plan
contemplated an outlay 'of 350,000'to 500,000 francs :. this
he was determined to rget'together, and as is well related in a
paper given us by brother Clerrient,'he did, in the course of
time, obtain. For year after year, he went hither and thither
to beg for Mount Carmelf Though at an advanced age, he
‘set out and returned to the mount eleven times; now extend.-
ing his journeyings to’ Jerusalem, Cairo, Alexandria, Algiers,
Gibraltar; now visiting Beirut,‘ Damascus, Mount Leba.
non, Smyrna, Constantinople; and now going through the
whole of Italy, Sardinia, Spain, part of England, and ﬁnally
France; and he did succeed, he did gather together his
”$100,000 ; and here are the evidences of it' to the whole
‘world. Honor be to‘ his name, monk though he be; honor be
to the good old—man, though he be in subjection to Rome and
her corrupt creed! The sick and the wounded, the weary and
the way-worn, the poor and distressed, all ﬁnd here a resting-
place; and here meet with the sympathies and kindnesses of
a home. May it ever be thus! .

We went over. the entire hospice in the course of our visit.
From the ﬂat roof we enjoyed a magniﬁcent view; and in the
chapel or church, built over the cave of Elijah,* wewvere at

* “ Besides Elijah, his disciple Elisha had also his cavern upon Carmel; it is
believed to be still recognizable. .The number of. caves and caverns, however,
upon Mount. Carmel approximates closely to 2000; thisllabyrinth of cavities
would seem the passage to the spirits of the lower region. It may thence be

