326 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

Rex Brnnumus, Jams urrsn Mrcnmaus,

SPES PATRIE, VIGOR Eccnssm, vmrus UTRIUSQUE,
QUE'M FORMIDABANT, CU] DONA TRIBUTA FEREBANT
CEDAR a'r Eovrrus, DAN ac nomzcrm Duuscus,
Peon DOLOR ! IN momco CLAUDITUE noo remote.

The limits of the present letter do not admit of dwelling
upon these things; neither will it now be practicable to visit
and speak in detail of several other parts of the church not
devoid of interest and importance}? I must leave all these
for the present, and beg your attention to the topic proposed
at the commencement of this letter. I trust that a calm and
dispassionate examination of the question at issue will prove
this much, at least, that it is not without reason that I pre-
sume to believe in the verity of Calvary and the Holy Sep-
ulchre.

If we examine the accounts contained in the Gospels of
the last events connected with our Lord’s death and resurrec-
tion, we ﬁnd certain facts recorded. Jesus, after the mock-
ery of a trial, was condemned, scourged, insulted, crowned
with thorns, and taken by the soldiery to be led to the place
of cruciﬁxion. This was about eight o’clock on the morning
of Friday: as He passed through the streets of the city,
He was followed by large numbers of weeping and mourning
disciples, and sympathizing friends; fainting under His cross,

* " The church ofthe Holy Sepulchre, composed of several churches, erected
upon an unequal surface, illumined by a multitude of lamps, is singularly mys-
terious; a sombre light pervades it, favorable to piety and profound devotion.
Christian priests, of various sects, inhabit diﬂ'erent parts of the ediﬁce. From‘the
arches above, where they nestle like pigeons, from the chapels below, and so!»
terraneous vaults, their songs are heard at all hours both of the day and night.
The organ of the Latin monks, the cymbals of the Abyssinian priest, the voice
of the Greek caloyer, the prayer of the solitary Armenian, the plaintive accents
of the Coptic friar, alternately. or all at once assail your ear; you know not
whence these concerts proceed; you inhale the perfume of incense, without
perceiving the hand that burns it; you merely perceive the pontiﬂ‘, who is going
to celebrate the most awful of mysteries on the very spot where they were ac-
complished, pass quickly by, glide behind the columns, and vanish in the gloom
of the temple.“—Chateaubriand’s “ Travels in Greece, Palestine,” &c., p. 290.

