470 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

addressed by Eusebius, on the occasion above alluded to, “'to
one who was the best and most pious of bishops, and by whose
zeal, principally, the temple in Tyre, by far the most. noble in
Phoenicia, was built.” It is well worth perusing. I have
thought, also, that you might like to have the Ichnography
of the ancient temple or church of Tyre, which, if it answers
no other purpose, will serve to illustrate the arrangements of
the church in the fourth century, and to make more plain
some points in Christian antiquities, not always clearly under-
stood by the readers of ecclesiastical history.

It was a deeply interesting occupation to sit down, as we.
did, near the gate of the city, under a shady tree, and read
the various portions of Holy Writ respecting Tyre, particu-
larly the passages out of Isaiah, Ezekiel, and Zechariah; not
less interesting was it to call to mind the history of the past,
and to note how exactly the judgments denounced against it
have been fulﬁlled. Perhaps you will give me your attention
to a brief abstract of the history of Tyre. It was a very an-
cient city, undoubtedly, being mentioned in the book of
Joshua (xix. 29) as “the strong city Tyre ;” and Josephus
says that it was built two hundred and forty years before the
temple of Solomon. The best authorities are not agreed
whether it stood originally on the island or on the main land,
though the latter is the more common opinion. Bishop New-
ton supposes—and I think not unreasonably—that while old
Tyre stood on the main land, the island at the same time was
occupied, and formed in fact an integral portion of the city as
a Whole. It is termed by the prophet Isaiah (xxiii. 12) the
“daughter of Sidon,” in allusion to the fact that it was
founded by a colony from that city, though ere long it out-
rivalled that very ancient home of the Phaenicians, and be-
came the most celebrated place in the World for trade, com-
merce, and wealth: hence it is termed “a mart of nations,
the crowning city, whose merchants are princes, whose traf-
ﬁckers are the honorable of the earth.” In consequence of

