VARIETIES on NILE-LIFE. 87

in a quarrel which springs out of too‘ free a use of arrack,
got in a neighboring town, or a supposed or real case of theft
of one Arab from another. One evening we got mingled
up with a rather novel case: a poor fellow in a boat near
by was struggling, and shouting, and striving to get away
from two or three others who were holding him, and en‘-
(leavoring to calm his agitation. On inquiry, we learned
that he was a passenger on the boat from Cairo to some point
up the river, and he begged and entre‘ated So much to come
On board the “Ibis” ,for the night, that We consented. A
inost pitiful story indeed was that which he told; declaring
that he was a merchant, returning home, and that he had
overheard a project by the boatmen to murder him that night,
and ‘seize upon the little wealth which he had with him. I
never saw a. person'so: ﬁlled with terror, and whose counte-
nance and every act indicated more intense and ungoVerna-
ble excitement. On the part of the persons in the other
heat, it was asserted, and apparently with reason, that the
poor merchant was crazy; and had frequent attacks of this
kind; and consequently they wished him to return to his
proper quarters. As, however, he shuddered so fearfully at
the proposition, that‘we could not bear to force him away—
not being certain, too, but what his story might be true-—\ve
let him spend the night among the crew. The next day he
left us quietly, and we saw him no more.

Much might be added on so proliﬁc a theme as life on the
Nile. I might tell you of naked monks from the convent of
“Our Lady Mary the Virgin,” near J ebel e’ Tair, swimming
across the river, and with just enough occidental learning to
proclaim themselves Christians, begging lustily for help: I
might dwell upon the picture of primitive manners which is
afforded every day on the banks of this great river, where the
village maidens come continually with their jars for water,
and when they have ﬁlled them, raise them to their heads,
and settling them on a small cushion placed there, walk away

