NICOPOLIS AND LATRUN. 259

Crossing the dry bed of a small stream, Wady Surar, on
Robinson’s map, and having Ekron, or at least the village
which occupies its site, to the north-west.of us, perhaps an
hour distant, we came at eight, A.M., to a region of hilly yet
fertile country,»near to which Dr. Robinson has pointed out
the site of Nicopolis or Emmaus, now called Amwas, though
he did not visit and examine it in personﬁ“ The road passed
a little to the right, but the conical hill .on which the town
was situate, was a striking object which we stopped a few
minutes to look at and admire. You will understand, how-
ever, that this could not be the Emmaus mentioned in St.
Luke (chapter xxiv. 13), to which the two disciples were go-
ing when the Lord Jesus met them and revealed Himself to
them in the breaking of bread; for it is expressly mentioned,
that that village was sixty stadia (about seven miles) from
Jerusalem, whereas, the ancient Nicopolis is about’a hun-
dred and sixty stadia, or not far from nineteen miles from
the Holy City. It is to this town, near to Jerusalem, that
Tasso alludes :—

“ Emmaus, a city at so short a space
From regal Salem, that a youth in June,
Walking for pleasure at a careless pace,
From dewy morn, may reach the town by noon.”1‘

Descending a rather steep hill, and crossing a brook of no
great size, we entered upon the Ramleh road, near Latrﬁn,
which is situate on a lofty hill, and appeared to have been
once a place of great strengthﬁt We inferred this, not only
from its natural adaptedness for military purposes, but also,
from various evidences of massive buildings of this sort, and
some ruins of paved road, and a bridge which we saw near
the highway. The valleys here were very picturesque and

"' Robinson’s “ Biblical Researches,” vol. iii. p. 66, Notes 1, 2.

1' Tasso’s “Jerusalem Delivered," Cant. ii. 55.

1 Latrﬁn derives its Arabic name from the tradition that here was the do-
rm" bani latranis, the home of the malefactor pardoned on the cross. (Luke
xxiii. 43.)

