FIRST VIEW OF JERUSALEM. 263

Egyptian rule in Syria, this, as well as all the roads, .were
quite safe for travellers and caravans. When, through the
ill-timed intervention of England, Ibrahim Pasha was com-
pelled to return to Egypt, and Syria onbe more came under
Turkish domination, the robber sheikh, like many others,
resumed his former vocation, and the road again became un-.
safe. It was certainly an object to break up ’this nest of
thieves; but as the force at his command was not suﬂicient,
the Turkish governor resorted to means, in which his cou'ntry--.
men are very expert. By some inducement on other, they
prevailed upon Abﬁ Gosh to be present at a friendly enter-
tainment, when, having him within their grasp, they coolly
put him in chains, and sent him to Constantinople. There.
he is kept .in conﬁnement, while his stronghold in the moun-
tains has been despoiled of its importance, and his band dis
persed. - This is as the story was told to us, though I do not
vouch for the accuracy of the details.*

I need not dwell upon unimportant matters connected with
our toilsome progress onward toward Jerusalem: it was the
shine hard, tedious, up and down pathway, amid rocks and
stones, and wet and mud, unmitigated, save by the exciting
thought, that each moment we were drawing nearer the goal
of all our hopes, and should soon be permitted to look upon
Jerusalem in very truth. At last we came to the top of the
hills immediately to the west of the city, and each member
of our party pressed forward to catch a ﬁrst glimpse of ‘its
walls and towers. It was late in the afternoon, about four,
P.M., when, from an elevation not differing much from that
on which the city itself is situate, we beheld its sacred and
holy precincts for the ﬁrst time. I was so excessively faa
tigued, and felt so unwell, that I seemed to myself not to
have one spark of enthusiasm left. The view wasdisap-

* Lamartine (in 1832) gives an interesting account of his interview with this
Arab chief of organized banditti. See “ Pilgrimge- to the Holy Land,” vol. i.
pp 237-240. Am. Ed. 1835.

