BISHOP 0F ESNEH—STABL ANTAR. 165

I may mention here, as connected with the same subject,
though occurring some days afterwards, that I had the pleas-
ure of calling upon the bishop of Esneh with a letter from Mr.
Lieder. He received me with great kindness and courtesy,
was very much pleased with the present which I had brought,
and appeared to be deeply interested in the cause to which
his life is devoted. Personally his appearance and address
are more striking than those of the bishop of Es-Siout, and
from considerable intercourse with him, both at home and
afterwards at Luxor, I should be disposed to think highly of
his intellectual capacity and his general information. His
character, too, as an energetic and faithful bishop—I mean
of course to the extent of his knowledge of the truth—stands
high among those who are competent to judge, and disposed
to judge fairly. By his invitation, I visited some of the
churches in Esneh; but as they do not offer anything special
or different from those already spoken of, I need not detain
you with any attempt to describe them.

As our reis had chosen Es-Siout as the place where he
would bake bread for his crew’s supply, we had the rest of
the day before us, to spend in any way we chose. Accord-
ingly we concluded to visit the grottoes cut in the limestone
rock near the modern town, of which Sir Gardner Wilkinson
gives a full and accurate account. We rode out of the town
on donkeys, in a southwesterly direction, passed through sev-
eral beautifully green ﬁelds, crossed over a canal intended
for irrigation, by means of a rather large and well-built stone
bridge, and in about half an hour came to the foot of the
lofty hill, called by the modern Egyptians Stabl Anlar. We
climbed up the steep sides of the bill for about two-thirds of
the way, when we were gratiﬁed by a sight of the porch or
entrance-chamber, which is cut out of the limestone rock,
and open to the air. It is this chamber of which M. De-
non speaks in glowing terms, declaring “ that all the elegan-
cies of ornament, which the Greeks have employed in their

