srzr: on THE JORDAN. 39]:

as we were riding forward, especially when we came near 'or
were passing bunches of tall-grass and reeds, or were skirting
the thickets by the river’s side; possibly it may have been
that without his aid we should have been .ﬁred upon,»‘and
even Worse. Let us be thankful that we were preserved
from any trial of the kind.

In the course of an hour and a half, we reached the place
marked out by tradition as the locality where John baptized
the Holy and Blessed Saviour, who ever deemed it right to
“fulﬁll all righteousness? I was somewhat surprised to ﬁnd
the Jordan so much narrower than I~ had supposed; I had
expected to see deroadstream, not unlike many of the rivers
of less note in our own country; but, it is not; so; between
the steep and often high banks; where the river ﬂows during
most of the year, it appeared to me not to be more than
sixty or seventy feet wide. It is but a guess and judging by
the eye, for I had no means of measurement with me, and
therefore is not to be relied upon=at all for any accuracy; all
that I would afﬁrm positively is that the Jordaniis by. no
means a'wide river, and is narrower between its banks than
many of the creeks in our part of the world.* The current
is extremely rapid in this part of its course, running I‘should
think from three to four miles an hour ; and so strong is it
that very rarely can the most muscular swimmer make head
against it : instances happen once in a while of persons being
carried away and drowned in consequence of having braved
it too far. 1 think myself a pretty good swimmer, and in
ordinary cases would mind nothing launching forth to reach
a point a mile or more distant ; but when I stood and looked
upon the Jordan for a while and tried to estimate the force
of that powerful current; I knew that 'it would not- be, safe
for me to venture out beyond my depth; and I did not.

1‘ Dr. Wilson gives the width of the Jordan-1 zit-[this place as exactly forty
yards; he estimates the current as at least three miles per hour.—”Landsqf
ﬂu Bible,”'vol. ii. p. 17. w -.

