14 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

werth knowing about them? and who is able to point out
with any certainty, or identify with any probability, whﬁ
may yet exist of the splendid temples,‘the gorgeous palaces,
the spacious baths, or the noble halls of learning of ancient
Alexandria? Who can stand in the midst of this mass of
.utter ruin and desolation on every sideﬁvithout meditating,
for the moment at least, upon the instructive lessons and
warnings of the past? I shall not'venture, then, to dwell
upon such things as these, but will, 'with your permission,
my dear S., occupy a small space'with some account of seve-
ral visits which we made to two or three monuments of anti-
,quity which have escaped the destroying hand of time.

A short ride of about a mile and a half in7a southerly di-
rection from our hotel, brought us outside of the city walls
and fortiﬁcations, and in full View of the pillar which custom
and tradition have combined to call by the name of Pompey,
and for a long time to associate with the name of the great
rival of Julius Caesar. It is situate on an eminence, consider-
ably above the road and neighboring Turkish burying-ground,
and is quite alone, apart from any ediﬁce, standing in silent,
nay, almost gloomy grandeur. As all the donkey-boys in
”Alexandria know Where it is, and have got the impression
that every Frank must see this and the obelisks as a matter
of course, they whipped up their obstinate little brutes with
right good-will and a plentiful supply of noise, and we soon
found ourselves at the base of the pillar, and at liberty to ex-
amine it at our leisure, and with as much patience as the trou-
blesome and malicious children, who lie in wait for visitors,
would allow. Few, I imagine, will be surprised to learn that
the absurd practice of scribbling names on celebrated objects
rance which prevails respecting it, may be attributed to the eﬂ'ects of that fatal
earthquake (AD. 365) which swallowed up 50,000 of the inhabitants, and threw
down the loﬂiest oftheir ediﬁces. But on such subjects all inquiry is vain; for
the traveller ﬁnds that the degraded beings who now occupy the wrecks of this

superb metropolis, are equally indiﬂ‘erent and ill«inf‘ormed as to every event which
preceded their own times.”—Russell’s “ Ancient and Modern Egypt," p..1’76.

