168 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

toward the Nile, and are ex'eavated'in the side of the moun-
tain, at about one-third below its top. Their general charac-
ter is simple enough; usually you enter a square or oblong
chamber, say twenty or twenty-ﬁve feet long, and perhaps
ﬁfteen feet high. In many cases, the walls are rough and
unornamented; in others they have been adorned with great
care and skill. In nearly all very deep pits are seen, in which
the mummies were deposited, but which have been riﬂed of
their contents. Several of the caves have columns, both in
front and in the interior; and in some instances I observed
niches or recesses opposite the door or main entrance, where
the ﬁgures or sculptures of the triad worshipped here, were
placed.

We spent considerable time in examining the various se-
pulchral chambers, which so many centuries ago were hollowed
out of the solid rock, for the purpose to which they were de-
voted. Several of the more northerly ones are disﬁgured by
childish scrawls made by the ignorant Arabs, and nearly all
of them bear the marks of that mania for recording names,
which is so prevalent among travellers in general. Most of
the grottoes which we visited are adorned with paintings on
the walls, and various hieroglyphical inscriptions, which throw
light, not only upon the date of their excavation, but also
upon numerous interesting points, in regard to the manners
and customs of the ancient Egyptians. Some of these paint-
ings are in excellent style, the colors being still good, and do
credit to the artist, quite as much so as anything which we have
seen in Egypt, not even excepting the tombs at Thebes. In
one place we saw the ancient gymnastic exercises, represented
with much spirit ;. in another we beheld a hunting scene, in
all its details, and, with the single failure of perspective, as
life-like as many a modern painting. Here we looked upon
the peaceful ocqupations of the husbandmau; there we‘ saw
the administration of justice, and the bastinado being inﬂicted
upon men and even women, the latter in a sitting posture,

