DATE or TIIE OBELISKS. 19

help to give you some idea of the size and imposing appear-
ance of these stately blocks of granite, and the sculptured
story of other days which they tell. Sir Gardner Wilkin-
son, whose authority is especially high in all these matters,
informs us that the ovals in the centre are those of Thothmes
III., a monarch whose reign he dates about B. C. 1495, or
nearly the period of the Exodus of the children of Israel.
“In the lateral lines,” he goes on to say, “ are the ovals of
Remeses the Great, the supposed Sesostris (BC. 1355), and
additional columns of hieroglyphics at the angles of the lower
part, present that of a later king, apparently Osirei II. (BC.
1255), the third successor of the great Remeses.”* It ap-
pears further, that these obelisks stood originally at Heliopolis,
a city at no great distance from Cairo, and were brought to
Alexandria by one. of the Caesars, to grace that noble capital
of the Ptolemies.

At a short distance, and nearly covered with sand and dirt,
lies the other obelisk; the base and about half of the lower
portion are completely covered, and probably a part of the
obelisk is under the high sea-wall which ineloses the great
harbor. It has suffered muoh injury from various causes,
but principally from being exposed to the inﬂuence of the
weather, and the careless ignorance and folly of the natives,
as well as some of the tribe of travellers, a class of persons
who are not always either the best informed or the most at-
tentive to leave unharmed the valuable remains of a past age.
The prostrate obelisk answers in all important respects to its
counterpart, which stands near by, and so needs no special
description. I may mention, however, but certainly with no
invidious feeling, that the obelisk which now lies on the ground,
exposed to every chance of injury, was many years ago pre-
sented by Mohammed Ali to the English government. So
far as appears, it might have been removed without incurring
any great expense, and would have formed a grand ornament

“ “ Hand Boakfor Egypt,” p. 91.

