280 EGY'PT AND THE HOLY LAND.

it could have been accomplished; for there has never been,
since his days, an era of wealth and prosperity sufﬁcient to
enable the Jews to devote time and labor to such undertak-
ings as these. The few Israelites, whom I chanced to see
here‘on this occasion, did not appear to be much affected with
grief or depression; they were quite willing to act as guides
and always ready to beg, even though they knew that I was
a Christian. After measuring some of the stones and satis-
fying myself of the very great size of many of them, I went
a short distance further, and at the south-west angle of the
temple area, beheld the evident remains of an ancient arch,
forming part of .a large bridge. Dr. Robinson identiﬁes this
with the bridge mentioned incidentally by Josephus, as lead-
ing from this part of the temple across the'valley of the
Tyropoeon to the Xystus on Mount Zion; and, in his opinion,
“ it proves incontestably the antiquity of that portion of the
wall from which it springs.” Though century after centuryr
has rolled away since this massive masonry was here erected
by that great monarch, who built the glorious and splendid
temple of J-EHOVAII; and though ruin and desolation have vis-
ited the Holy City and laid it low in the dust, its temple de-
stroyed, and its people scattered over the face of the wide
world; “yet these foundations still endure, and are unmova—
ble as at the'beginning. Nor is there aught in the present
physical condition of these remains, to prevent them from
continuing as long as the 'world shall last. It was the tem-
ple of the living God; and like the everlasting hills on which
it stood, its foundations were laid ‘for all time.’ ”’1‘

Leaving this interesting locality, I rode up the easterly as-
cent of Zion, through a number of crooked lanes, and proceed-
ing for some distance in ’a south-westerly direction, I came
to a manufactory of pottery-ware, made from clay found- in
the adjacent valley of Hinnom. It is but a little way from
the Zion gate. "‘ Just south of the pottery”—I use the womb

“ "‘ Biblical Researches? vol. i. pp. 425, 427.

