GIBEON AND THE VALLEY OF AJALON. 405

towns of the name, Upper and Lower, or perhaps one city
called by these names, according to the part of it on the hill-
top or further down into the deep pass or valley. Josephus
speaks of there being here a narrow, steep, and rocky hollow
way or pass, exceedingly dangerous to an army, which would
seem to favor this view.* In the book of Joshua (ch. x. 10,
11) we are told of “the going down to Beth-boron,” and of.
the way from Gibeon “ that goeth up to Beth-heron.” It was
on the occasion of which the sacred writer speaks, that the
captain of the host of the Lord commanded the sun and the
moon, and they obeyed him :—-“Then spake Joshua tn the
LORD, in the day when the Lord delivered up the Amorites
before the children of Israel, and he said, in the sight of Israel,
Sun, stand thou still upon Gibeon; and thou, Moon, in the
valley of Ajalon. And the sun stood still, and the moon
obeyed, until the people had avenged themselves upon their
enemies. Is not this written in the Book of Jasher? So the
sun stood still in the midst of heaven, and hasted not to go
down about a Whole day. And there was no day like that,
_before it or after it, that the Lord hearkened unto the voice of
a man: for the Lord fought for Israel.”t It was a stupend-
ous miracle indeed, and one which magniﬁed the power of
Him who created and sustains the universe. Without per-
plexing ourselves as to the speculations and doubts of philos-
ophers and wise i‘nen, it was enough for us to know that thus
itis written; andgbelieving in God’s almighty power, we were
in no wise troubled with hesitancy as to His ability to do what
seemeth good in'His sight; so that we looked toward Beth-
horon and the Valley of Ajalon, with the deepest awe, and
bowed our souls in adoration before the throne of JEHOVAH.

Descending into aelow plain or v'alley, pleasant and green

* Dr. Robinson says; that “it appears that in ancient times, as at the pres-
ent day, the great road of communication between Jerusalem and the sea-waxy
was by the pass of Beth-hoten.”—“ Bib. Rm," vol. iii. p. 6i:

1‘ Josh. x. 12-14.

