144 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

ting,” he declares; “one is fatigued with reading; one is
stunned with the thought of such a conception (as Kamak
demands). It is hardly possible to believe, after having seen
it, in the reality of the existence of so many buildings, col-
lected at a single point, in'their dimensions, in the resolute
perseverance which their construction required, and in the
incalculable expenses of so much magniﬁcence. On examin-
ing these ruins, the imagination is wearied with the idea of
describing them. Of the hundred columns of the porticos
alone of this temple, the smallest are seven feet and a half in
diameter, and the largest twelve. The space occupied by this
circumvallation contains lakes and mountains. In short, to be
enabled to form a competent idea of so much magniﬁcence, it
is necessary that the reader should fancy what is before him to
be a dream, as he who views the objects themselves occasicn-
ally yields to the doubt, whether he be perfectly awake/”k

It is not necessary that I should speak with particularity
of the comparative antiquity of the buildings which go to
make up the grand temple. Of cburse you will understand,
that the vast extent to which it attained was the work of
time, and that various monarchs of Egypt, to gratify their
pride or vanity, or manifest their piety, made various additions
to the earlier structures. Wilkinson-is of opinion, that no
part remains of the original foundation of the temple; but as
the name of Osirtasen I., the Pharaoh who ruled Egypt in
the days of Joseph, or earlier, as Osburn thinks, has been
found on some prostrate columns, near what was the sanctu-
ary, it proves that we have here not only the oldest building
in Thebes, but ruins which carry us back about three thou-
sand six hundred years. Later kings added the obelisks and
the chambers near the sanctuary. Thothmes III., in whose
reign the Exodus took place, “made large additions to the
buildings and sculptures, as well in the vicinity of the sanc-
tuary as in the back part of the great inclosure; where the

" Russell’s “Ancient and [Modern Egypt,” p. 211.
6

