352 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

upon ﬂocks of sheep and goats, and would be struck with the
singular circumstance that they are almost always thus kept
together under a shepherd’s care; and we felt, as never we
had felt before, the force of our Lord’s words when speaking
of the last judgment ;——-“ when the Son of Man shall come in
His glory, and all the holy angels with Him, then shall He sit
upon the throne of His glory, and before Him shall be gathered
all nations ; and He shall separate them one from another, as
a shepherd divideth his sheep from the goats; and He shall
set the sheep on His right hand and the goats on His left.”*
You will believe me that our thoughts were turned to this
dread event with something more than an ordinary sense of
its near approach, and our aspirations went up before God
our Saviour, that in the last day when He shall come again
in power and great glory to judge the world, we may be found
acceptable in His sight, and may hear those life-giving words,
“Come, ye blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom pre-
pared for you from the foundation of the world.” ' At another
time, our eyes were greeted with vineyards and enclosed gar-
dens, protected by a round tower built in or just by it: and
immediately our minds were impressed with the passages of
Holy Writ, which were here again illustrated and conﬁrmed :
“Now will I sing to my well beloved a song of my beloved,
touching his vineyard. My well beloved hath a vineyard in
a very fruitful hill; and he fenced it, and gathered out the
stones thereof and planted it with the choicest vine, and built
atower in the midst of it, and also made a wine-press therein;
and he looked that it should bring forth grapes, and it brought
forth wild grapes.”1L So, too, our blessed Lord in one of His
parables alludes to the same striking point in illustration of
‘his Divine teaching: “A certain man planted a vineyard,
and set an hedge about it and digged a place for the wine-
~fat, and built a tower and let it out to husbandmen, and
went into a far country”: In every direction we beheld these

* Matt. xxv. 31—33. . 1' Isa. v. 1, 2. 1: Mark, xii. 1.

