64 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

probable, that they might have been the founders of the Pyr-
amids, and that they might have hit on this plan as an excel-
lent one for breaking down the spirit of the people, and for
preventing any sudden or violent outbreak. Now you will
observe, that I have ventured to think, that about BC; 2100
is the most probable date of the Pyramids; if this be so,
Abraham (according to Dr. Hales’s Chronology), appears to
have visited Egypt about B.C. 2077; and the Shepherd
dynasty to have been expelled by the efforts of the native
kings, who probably retained all along their dominion in the
Thebaid, about BC. 1900: Joseph—following the same
learned author—was appointed governor or regent under one
of the Pharaohs, who were native kings, BC. 1872, and his
father and family came and settled in the land of Goshen,
only a few years subsequently. The recent expulsion of the
Hyksos was fresh in the memories of the people, and those
mighty masses, the Pyramids, were striking mementos to
their minds, of foreign invasion and oppression. Hence, on
this hypothesis, we can understand the signiﬁcancy of that
expression, that shepherds were regarded as an abomination
by the Egyptians; not, probably, all shepherds, for the Egyp-
tians themselves had ﬂocks and herds, but shepherds who
came from abroad, and towards whom, having no natural
afﬁnity, they entertained invincible repugnanoe and hatred.
I am well aware, that very much of what I have stated as
most probable on this subject, is yet unsubstantiated by proof;
but as it is most likely, that for many years to come we shall
be under the guidance of theories and great names, instead
of clear and satisfactory evidence, I hope that you will agree
with me in looking upon this hypothesis as, all things con-
sidered, quite as reasonable as any other. Sir Gardner Wil-
kinson expresses himself on these points, with a candor and
fairness worthy of all praise: let me quote his words :—“I
have supposed the date of the Great Pyramid, or the reign
of Suphis, to be about BC. 2120; but this is a conjecture

