rm. JonNsoN’s OPINION» 67

purposes. For though it is in vain to look for the pole-star
in latitude 30°, at the bottom of a passage descending at an
angle of 27°, or to imagine that aclosed passage, or that a;
Pyramid covered with a smooth inaccessible casing, were
intended for an observatory, yet the form of the exterior»
might lead to“many useful calculations; . They stand exactly
due north and south, and while the direction of theifaces,
east, and West, might serve to ﬁx the return of a certain pe-
riod of the year, the shadow cast by the sun at the time of
its coinciding with their slope, might be observed for a simi-
lar .purposewk Such is doubtless the most sober and judir
cious opinion in the present state of our knowledge respecting-
Egypt and its wonders ; and here I am disposed to leave the.
whole subject, begging, however, as a relief to the dry and’
dull manner with which I have imposed upon you in this
discussion, to quote the words of a wise and good man in
reference to these mausoleums of the Pharaohs :—“For»the.
Pyramids no reason has ever been given, adequate to the cost
and labor of the work. The narrowness of the chambers
proves that it could afford no retreat from enemies, and treas-
ures might have been‘reposited‘ at far less expense with equal
security. It seems to have been erected only in compliance
with that hunger of imagination which preys incessantly upon
life, and, must be alwaysappeased by some employment.
Those who have already all that they can enjoy, must en-
large their desires. He that has built for use till use is sup-,.
plied, must begin to build for variety, and extend his 'plan to
the utmost power of human performance, that he may not
soon be reduced to form another wish. I consider this mighty
structure as a monument of the insufficiency of human en-
joyments. A king whose power is unlimited, and whose
treasures surmount all real and imaginary Wants, is com-
pelled to solace, by the erection of a Pyramid, the satiety of
dominion and tastelessness of pleasures, and to amuse the

* “Hand Bookfar Egypt,” 1). 185.

