294 EGYPT arm THE. HOLY LAND.

brutal soldiery ; all He suffered with a calmness and heavenly
serenity, which He alone ever manifested. Yes, He endured
all things for the sake of us sinners—he endured the scorn
and contempt of those who sought to glut their revenge with
His blood, crying out in their blind and awful hatred, “ His
blood be on us and on our children.” He endured the deser-
tion of His disciples, the shameful denial of Peter, the crown
of thorns, thebearing of His cross, the fainting anguish of.
body and soul, the nailing to the cross, and the agony of that
death on the cross, all, all for us, whom He died to save, and
without whose sacriﬁce we were lost forever. ,

As, with full hearts, we leave this sacred spot, let our
thoughts and aspirations be those of the penitent, believing
and obedient ; for “ there should be no greater comfort to
Christian persons, than to be made like unto Christ, by suf-
fering patiently, adversities, troubles, and sicknesses. For
He Himself, went not up to joy, but ﬁrst He suffered pain;
Heentered not into His glory, before He was cruciﬁed. So
truly our way to eternal joy is to suffer here with Christ;
and our door to enter into eternal life is gladly to die with
Christ; that we may rise again from death and dwell with
Him 1n everlasting life. ”*

Let us continue our walk up the side of the Mount of
Olives; the ascent is not steep, except here and there, and
as we go on. you willsee how many points of View there are
from which Jerusalem, even now, is not deﬁcient in beauty
and sublimity. As you perceive, the number of trees is not
large, much less so, doubtless, than in early days, when this
lofty hill received its name from the abundance of trees
which ﬂourished on its slopes and steeps. Here and there,
in some retired spot or enclosure, a little way from the path,
are parties of Women and children, who have come out of
the dull, hot city, to sit under the trees and on the green-
sward, and to enjoy the delight of chatting one with another,

‘ Exhortation in the “ Order for the Visitation of the Sick."

