406 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

in comparison with most of the road over which we had been
journeying, at a little past four P.M., We arrived at E1 Birsh,
the Beer or Beeroth of Scripture. It is a very pretty spot,
and offered so many attractions in our eyes, as a resting
place, that we determined to encamp here for the night. We
pitched our tent near a ruined wely, or Mohammedan saint’s
tomb, to the west of the village, and were regaled with the
gushing streams and fountains of water which were close by
and all around in every direction: most tr‘uly does the pres-
ent locality answer to the name of the Well or Wells, for.
water is in abundance, and what is more, is very sweet and
good. I was much interested in rambling about a while
before evening, and looking upon the varied scenes offered to
the inspection of the traveller. “On the gentle slope near to
our tent, I came upon a large ﬂeck of goats and sheep, in
charge of a lad about twelve years'of age, who looked at me
with wondering eyes, and tried to enter into conversation;
but our stock of words and sentences was too small te give
much satisfaction for this purpose. I saw also several other
ﬂocks, generally in charge of men, and sometimes of women.
Here and there the ﬁelds of grain were abundant, and ap-
peared to promise a rich harvest, which, was matter of no
surprise to one who beheld the supply of water in every di-
rection. How truly might such a land become again rial:
and fruitful to a degree equal to anything in its former his-
tory! Walking down by the ruined wely‘, I found there
several women and girls with their jars for water, and was
rather struck with the prettiness, amounting almost to
beauty, of the girls, .and the haggard, disagreeable faces of
the oller Women ;—-for here, as you may recollect, the people
in the country districts do not make it a point to cover their
faces with the odious veil, which forms the essential element
in a female’s dress out of doors in Egypt. They looked at me
with considerable interest, quite as much so as I did at them;
and placing their jars on their shoulder or head, they smiled

