OUR ROUTE THROUGH THE DESERT. 241

fruitful soil of the country. We passed through El Kanka,
a large village, at eleven o’clock, and had a view of the out-
side of one of the Pasha’s army-schools. It is very large, and
with two or three others, serves for the education of the Egyp-
tian troops, some of the oﬂicers, 660. About two hours later,
some little distance to the west of us were some mounds,
called Tel Jehudieh, the, “Mound of the Jews,” which plainly
points to the former occupants of this district of Egypt. In
the course of 'the afternoon, we were joined by Dr. Wain-
wright and Mr. Minturn, who had left Cairo on donkeys
early this morning, and we cncamped together near a small
village. From the low hill on which we were, we saw plainly
the Great Pyramid, which was more than thirty-ﬁve miles to
the south of us.

The next day, the 22d, at half-past 'nine A.M., we passed
near the large town of Belbeis, which is said to be well sup-
plied with bazaars, &c., and seems to be of some consequence
in this part of the country. The locusts still were visible in
great abundance, a fact of which we were sorry to be aware,
for the people consider it a bad sign, at this season, for
the prosperity of the land. We began to ﬁnd the sand of the
desert more soft, and with less appearance of vegetation than
we had previously noticed. About four P.M., we passed
through a village, called Ras el Wad, which is about sixty
miles from Cairo. On the 23d, we began to turn rather more
to the east in our course, and entered more into what may
strictly be termed the desert. We noticed, both to-day, and
all the way through the wilderness, many small lizards, and
occasionally some birds, which appear to make this their
home. We saw considerable marshy ground, and some pools
and ponds of salt water. There was also a good deal of wind
from the north, which rendered it quite cool, almost cold, at
times. We arrived at Salahieh at three RM. Wilkinson
gives the distance from Cairo as eighty and a half miles. All

the village turned out to look at us, and to sell us such arti-
11

