24 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

vessel, which is towed by one or two steam-tugs, on the Mah-
mﬁdieh canal. This important water communication be-
tween the sea-port of Lower Egypt and the Nile, is one of
the most valuable of Mohammed Ali’s works; and though
its history has several of the offensive features connected with
the despotism under which Egypt groans,* still no one can
fail to see and feel its value and consequence to the country
at large. Alexandria, you will recollect, is situate on the
western side of the Delta, at a distance of some ﬁfty miles
from the nearest, i. e. the Rosetta mouth of the Nile, and
about the same distance from the point where it is now con-
nected, by means of this canal, with the great river of Egypt.
Of course as the entire resources of Egypt are dependent upon
the Nile, that mighty fertilizer, without which the whole
country would be but a barren desert, it is of the ﬁrst impont-
ance to bring into as close connection as possible, a sea-port
which abounds in facilities and extent of commerce, and the
broad stream which is almost adored by the peasantry of
Egypt: on the whole, too, though canals have their disadvan-
tages, it may be doubted whether, in the present condition
of this country, that mode of communication was not the best
for all parties which could have been adopted.’r Usually, it

* The Mahmﬁdieh Canal was begun in 1819; more than 300,000 men were
employed to dig it, of whom no less than 20,000 are said to have perished in con-
Sequence of ill—treatment, hunger, accident, overworking. and plague: less than
a year, some say only six months, were required to ﬁnish it; it was opened in
Jan., 1320, and named after the then Sultan Mahmud. Its length is nearly 50
miles, and its breadth varies from 80 to 90 feet. Its cost is estimated at $1,500,000.
But, after all, we are assured that the work is not well done, and far from durable
and satisfactory.

1' “ An old canal existed on this line, which brought water from the Nile, and
had been used, in the time of the Venetians, for carrying goods to Alexandria.
It was called the canal of Fooah, and existed, though nearly dry, in Savary’s
time, A. D. 1777. The spot where it entered the walls of Alexandria may still
be seen, at the salient angle to the west of Pompey’s Pillar; and it was probe.-
bly the same that of old went towards the Kibotos. There was also a canal on
a part of this line which left the Nile at Rahmanéeh, supposed by some to have
been the old-Canopic branch‘.”—“ Hand Bookfor Egypt," 17. 107.

