HELIOPOLIS AND 11‘s REMAINS. 199

to admire the imposing and richly wrought domes and mina-
rets of these mausoleums, and to muse over the ﬂeeting char-
acter of earthly grandeur and glory, in visiting many that
are dilapidated, uncared for, and fast sinking into ruin ,—

“ Pallida Mors aequo pulsat pede pauperum tabernas
Regumque turres :”*

but I will not extend this more enumeration of Lbjects of inter-
est or curiosity; I will rather ask your indulgence to one of our
excursions, in which, as it in part, at least, relates to Holy Scrip-
ture, I am sure you will ﬁnd something worthy your attention.

It was a pleasant ride, in an easterly direction, of rather
more than two hours from Cairo to Matarieh, near which are
the few scant. remains of once glorious Heliopolis. Some
considerable time before reaching it, the obelisk was plainly
in sight, and presented a singular appearance in the midst
of cultivated ﬁelds and gardens; whereas formerly, ages ago,
it and its companion stood, at the entrance of the magniﬁcent
Temple of the Sun, and was approached by a grand and im-
posing dromos of Sphinxes.’r Rarely, even in this land of
ruins, is there to be found a monument, which more aptly
illustrates the ﬂeeting character of earthly greatness, than
this noble obelisk, almost the sole remnant of a city, renowned
for learning, Wisdom, and splendor. It stands all" alone,
though in the centre of a fertile garden. The fellahin whom
we saw, and who here pursue their daily labor, have no

‘ Horat. Cam. I. iv. 13, 14. .

1' The faces of the obelisk measure at the ground six feet one inch on the
north and south, and six feet three inches on the east and west. Its height
above the level of the ground is sixty-two feet four inches. The annual de- ‘
posits of the Nile have in the lapse of time covered the base and pedestal.
Wilkinson found the base, or first pedestal of the obelisk, to be about six feet
below the present level of the ground; and a larger pedestal a number of feet
still lower down. This may give you some idea what changes have taken place
in the course of time in the valley of the Nile—the river bringing down its fer-
tilizing products and depositing them on the land, as well as retaining a portion
in its own bed, year after year, as it has done from a. period beyond the range
of authentic history.

