PDMPEY s PILLAR. 15

end in noted localities, which seems‘to characterize the An;
glo-Saxon race, is here displayed in a scandalous manner, and
between the black paint, tar and other substances used on
the base, and even the capital, the column is disﬁgured and
sadly marred. If Mr. “ G. Button,” “Wm. Thompson,”
1‘ E. Scott,” and others, could but know what annoyance
their silly proceedings have caused travellers and admirers
of art, they would probably have paused ere they disgraced
themselves by daubing their names in great staring black
and white letters on P'or'npey’s Pillar.

The foundation on which the pedestal is placed is of rough
stones cemented together, and was no doubt at one time cov-
ered from view. The pedestal itself is of hard, reddish gran-
ite, much worn by the weather on one or two sides, and evi-
dently not from the same quarry with the shaft which has
been raised upon it. The same remark applies to the capi-
tal, which appears to be of inferior workmanship and quality,
and together with the pedestal is thought to be of a diﬂerent
epoch by Dr. Clarke, Wilkinson and others. The shaft is
certainly a very noble and imposing one, rising aloft, in one
solid block, more than s'eventy feet, elegantly proportioned
and beautifully wroughtﬁ“ The material is what is termed
the red syenite or Egyptian granite, and not porphyry, as
Russell, in his “ Ancient Egypt,” asserts on insufﬁcient
authority. Rarely, if ever, have I seen a column of victory
which, even though this is at present in a lone and dose;
late position, shows more nobly or more strikingly; and per-
haps no existing monument of the kind excites more varied
emotions, or impresses the mind more forcibly with a conviol
tion of the emptiness of warlike renown, than this, with which

* According to Sir Gardner Wilkinson, the total height of the column Is 98
it. 9 inches, the shaft 1s 73 ft., the circumference 29 it. 8 inches, and the diame-
ter at the top of the capital 16 ﬂ. 6 inches. Mrs. Poole, following the measure-
ments of Mr. Lane, her brother, gives the shaft of the column as 68 it. in height
and 9 ft. in diameter at the bottom, and the total height 95 it. Other writers,
quoted by Dr. Russell, speak of Pompey’s Pillar as much higher.

