344 EGYPT AND? THE HOLY: LAND.

perhaps be doing ”injustice toUthé” Very learned author of
the Biblical Researches, “if we regard-the whole” of his
book, “as a» well-laid and successful plan for restoring to
2 . . . . its former consideration, and elevating his . . . . tale
higher degree of inﬂuence and dignity ;”—the blanks to be
ﬁlled up according to the temper and wishes of the person
casting evil imputations upon the acute and deeply-read
professor.”*

Why, then, I ask again, should we not believe in thc‘vcr-
ity of the Holy Sepulchre? we may be sure that the ﬁrst
Christians knew well the sites of the passion, death, and res"
urrection of our Lord; we may be~ equally sure that succeed-
ing generations were quite as well informed as their fathers
and brethren on these points; and unless we choose to believe
everything evil of the third and fourth centuries, and deter-
mine to ﬁnd no good in those who suffered persecution; tor-
ture, and death for the truth as it is in Jesus, we maybe
certain that they knew and that they testiﬁed truly respect-
ing Calvary, the tomb in the rock, and other revered spots in
and about the Holy CityJL I know not how it may strike
your mind, but I profess to you that the more I think upon

* Of course, you will understand that I disclaim everything like personalities
,in a discussion of this kind; and am perfectly free to accord to those who diﬁ‘er
from me, an equal sincerity, honesty, and thoroughness of conviction, with that
which I claim for myself. I take the more pleasure in speaking thus, because
it has fallen to my lot to have the honor ot‘, personal acquaintance with the dis-
tinguished champions, both for and against the genuincness of the Holy Sepul-
chre, as also with the learned and ingenious originator of the novel theory
which owns him alone as its supporter (I mean Mr. Fcrgusson). Here, as every-
where, I pray that truth only may prevail.

1- “ When,” asks Dr. Olin, in his very able summary of the argument for the
genuineness of the Holy Sepulchre) “ would be the period, or what the possible
circumstances in whichlit would be practicable to begin to practise imposition or:
impose ignorance upon the thousands of Christians born and reared in sight of
Calvary, who would naturally and irresistibly be led to venerate and visit the
consecrated spot at every recital of the Redeemer’s sufferings by parent or priest,
and by every impulse of faith or gratitude in their own hosoms ’l”—“’I‘raaels in
Egypt," &c., vol. ii. p. 287.‘

