AKKA AT THE PRESENT TIME. 459

city of Akka {nothing could be more frightful than the ex-
plosion of the powder magazine, when not less than two thou-
"sand of Mohammed Ali’s soldiers were almost instantaneously
destroyed: and though since the peace, the citizens and gov-
ernment have been endeavoring to” repair the breaches and
make good the damages which the city sustained, they have
only partially succeeded, and it is still a shattered and not
pleasant-looking town.*- It is very true, however, that its
importance in a commercial point of view has not been me-
terially injured, and under a better government, when Syria
shall be under the sway‘ of some Christian power, Akka will
necessarily assume a high rank commensurate with its natu-
ral advantages and facilities for trade. We trust that the
day may not be far distant, when the crescent shall no longer
wave over a solitary post in the Holy Land; until then, we
need look for no prosperity, no life, no activity, no energy in
Palestine. The domination of Mohammedanism over Chris-
tianity must be regarded as a judgment sent by God for the
punishment of the corrupt and wicked churches of the East;
whenthe days of vengeance are fulﬁlled, it will sink into noth-
ingness and oblivion, and the cross will once more resume its
victories and its rightful supremacy in the East.

As our time was somewhat limited, we did not spend more
of it than we could help in the city of Akka, contenting our-
selves with observing such things as fell under our notice
during the brief visit of a couple of hourst Most of the pub-

' * ” Akka. is the most regularly and strongly fortiﬁed mum in Syria, the key to
which it has been long esteemed; and its appearance is formidable both ate dis
tance and in its immediate vicinity. It stands upon an angular promontory jut-
ting into the sea. The walls are in many places double, and those on the land-
side are protected by strong out-works of mounds with facings of stone, which we
observed were undergoing a process of repair or completion. We entered the
town by the land-port, which is at its south-east corner, passing the soldiery on
”watch and various guard- -houses and public buildings ”—-Dr. Wilson’s “ Lands
qfthc Bibll,” vol. ii p. 233.

1' I have seen the population of Akkn rated by some as high as 20, 000: prob
ably, at the extent it does not exceed 10,000. or these, Dr. Wilson (in 1843)

