264 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

pointing, at, best, being from a point where you see little else:
than a long" line of wall, and can distinguish but few of the.
localities which must ever be dear to the heart of the Chris.
tian: the Mount of Olives, Gethsemane, and the holy spots,|
about Kedron, the Valley of Jehoshaphat, Siloa’s brook,_the.
lovely vale of Hinnom, were none of them visible; and the Holy ,
City appeared to have few of the charms with which imagi-
nation had invested it, and which had become familiar to our
eyes by the'skill and genius of the artist Yet it was.the
city of the Great King on which we were gazing; it was,
here our Divine Lord and Master had walked in the days of
His ﬂesh, and here He had suffered as an atonement for the
sins of the whole world: it was here the Holy Ghost had
descended, in his life-giving power, and ﬁtted the Apostles for,
the great mission which they had accomplished: it was here
the proto-martyr died; here the disciples bore testimony to the,
truth, through evil report and through good report; here
thepersecuting Saul burned with intemperate zeal against
the followers of the cross: here he returned years afterwards*
as Paul the Apostle, and servant of Jesus, whom he loved
and served. Yes, it was the city over which our Lord wept,
He who came to His own, and His own received Him not: it
was the city which, by its horrible guilt in rejecting the Mes-
siah, brought upon itself the dreaddestruction and misery
which befel it, when the Roman eagle lighted upon its prey.
Weak as I was, my heart was full of deep emotions, and I
kept uttering to myself, in a low voice, “JERUSALEM, O J nau-
SAILEM l” I could not say more; it was neither a scene nor a
time'for words; it was not an occasion where speech could
image forth the unutterable, unfathomable feelings of one,
who counts it his highest glory to be a soldier and servant of
the Lord Jesus Christ.
Descending the hill over which we had just been riding,

and crossing a valley of no great depth, we came to the Jaﬂii

* Compare Acts' 1x. with Gal.' 1. 16—18.

