374 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

Following the usual and almost necessary custom in this
climate, we made a very early start for the Dead Sea; and
as we were compelled to encamp out one night, at the least
we provided ourselves with tent, canteens, and the multifa-
rious apparatus of the cook’s establishment; all these, how-
ever, were sent on under charge of the maitre de cuisine,
and two Bedawin, as guards or attendants, to wait our ar-
rival at Jericho ; we, ourselves, taking a different and more
circuitous route to the same place. Passing out of St.
Stephen’s or rather St. Mary’s gate, we descended the steep
hill into the valley of Jehoshaphat, crossed the dry bed of
the Kedron, and winding round the southern slope of the
Mount of Olives, with the little village of Siloam on our
right and the higher portion of Olivet on our left, took'the
road to Bethany.

I have before spoken of the view from the Mount of Olives,
as decidedly the ﬁnest which can anywhere be obtained: it
needs not, therefore, that I dwell upon it here again, though
I assure you that we could not resist the desire to halt on the
mountain-side, and gaze long and earnestly at the city of the
Great King. May it please God soon to arise and have
mercy upon her! It took us about an hour to reach the in-
teresting localities in and about Bethany, which is, as you rec-
ollect, ﬁfteen furlongs, or nearly two miles, distant from J eru-
salem. The village is very small, and notwithstanding the
many olive, pomegranate, almond and ﬁg trees scattered
around, and the apparently not bad soil, which is under miss
erable cultivation, it bears evident marks of poverty and des-
titution; and were it not that the traditionary sites of the
Scripture events, relating to Lazarus and his sisters, are still
shown, and still visited with unhesitating faith, by large
numbers of pilgrims every year, it seems not unlikely that it,
like Bethphage, might be lost entirely, and not even a trace
of its existence remain. But we trust that this will never be
the case; for, whatever we may think of the particular. spots

