366 EGYPT AND THE‘ HOLY LAND.

divine, my thoughts were more intent upon the past them the
present, and as I slowly rode awayfrom the busy town, into
the more quiet ﬁelds and groves of olive, ﬁgs, etc., I gave full
play to the busy imaginings which Bethlehem is so well cal-
culated to inspire.

How many ages back does its history extend, and with
what a multitude of illustrious characters and events has it
been connected! It was here that Jacob came, with all his
Wealth, which God had given him, with his wives and chil-
dren, strangers in the land which was promised to them and
their seed as a sure possession. It was here that his beloved
wife, for whom he had served fourteen years, which “ seemed
unto him but a few days for the love he had to her,” was
taken away from him, leaving with the mourning father the
infant Benjamin as a precious pledge of her last hour: here,
too, not far from the town, she was buried, and the place of
her sepulture remains even unto this day. More than four
hundred years afterwards, “it came to pass that all the city
was moved” by the arrival of Naomi and the gentle, lovely,
and most affectionate Ruth. Here Was the scene of those
events, so touchingly related in the book of Ruth ; and here
did it happen that the poor and widowed Moabitess became
the wife of the‘wea‘ithy and honored‘ Boaz, and the great-grand-
mother of Israel’s second and worthiest king. This was the
city of David the servant of the Lord, whom He “chose and
tool: from the sheepfolds; from following the ewes great with
young, He brought him to feed Jacob His people and Israel
His inheritance. And David fed them according to the in'-
tegrity of his heart, and guided them by the skilfulness of
his hands.”* A thousand years and more passed away, and
Bethlehem was visited by one of Ruth’s descendants, and one
more highly favored and honored than any of her sex. The
blessed Virgin Mary, “being great with ehild,” came from
Nazareth to her own city, the city of David, to be taxed ac«

* Ps, lxxviii. ‘70—'72.

