BATTLE WIN; THE SHADUF MEN. 81

now and then, and we occasipnally meet with something, which
breaks in upon the monotony of every-day life. As we were
coming up the river, little more than two weeks ago, we
passed the Beni Hassan district, the reputation of which is
exceedingly bad. The inhabitants of the villages were noto-
rious thieves and vagab‘onds, so much so, that Ibrahim Pasha,
about twenty-seven years ago, administered to them oriental
justice in its fullest extent. He sent a body of troops, com-
pletely destroyed every village in the obnoxious district, and
ﬂogged, ﬁned, and enlisted a considerable portion of the in-
habitants. Nevertheless, the evil was not wholly eradicated.
The present race are little if any better than their predeces- ‘
ears; and it is necessary to be on one’s guard more than
ordinarily, the whole distance from Beni Hassan to Manfalut
(=about 55 miles). It happened one day, that our men were
on shore, dragging the boat, as usual when the wind is ahead,
and making very slow and tedious progress; all along the
banks of the river, as the Nile is now quite low, the rude
machinery of the shaduf was in operation; and it required a
little care to pass the tow-line, without coming in contact
with the long pole, or some other part of the shadﬁf. By and
by, as we were sitting very indolently, and looking out upon
the water, wishing for favorable wind, we heard a noise and
shouting on the shore, which seemed to betoken a disturbance
of peaceful relations. Sure enough, our crew and the shaduf
men had got up a regular ﬁght, and the latter appeared, to
have altogether the best of it. We called to the old pilot to
run the “Ibis” in shore, being determined to have a closer
look at matters, and to interfere, if necessary. A few mo-
ments brought us upon the scene of action, when we found
the fortune of war changing: our men had got their long
sticks or clubs from the boat, and, instead of using the ﬂat
of the hand as before (the fist is peculiar to Anglo-Saxon
ﬁghting), were belaboring their opponents with something

i more serious in its effects: one fellow was knocked down by
4*

