cancels OR THE ‘HARPER’S TOMB. 119

the scribbling of names on the walls, and various severe and
not undeserved objurgations against Dr. Lepsius and his bar-
barisms in‘removing some of the sculptures, and ask you to
accompany me to another tomb, on some accounts not less
interesting‘than that of Belzoni,‘lg

A short walk brought us to Bruce’s, or the Harper’s tomb,
so called from the interesting ﬁgures of two minstrels, play-
ing on harps of rather an elegant form, which were copied
by the distinguished traveller just named, and furnished to
Dr. Burney for his “History of Music,” Unlike the one
from which we had recently emerged, this tomb descends
gradually from the entrance, and in its whole length of four
hundred and ﬁve feet, reaches only thirty-one feet below the
level of its mouth. I may mention here, too, that most of
the tombs are constructed on this plan, and consist of a
straight passage, about twelve feet Wide and ten high, cut
into the side of the soft limestone rock, and having on each
side of the main hall a number of small chambers. The
principal interest connected with this tomb, is undoubtedly
on account of its throwing light upon the every-day life of
the ancient Egyptians; and though the nature of the rock
was not very favorable for sculpture, and a large part of the
tomb is too much defaced to enable one readily to recognize
the design of the artist, still sufficient remains to render
Bruce’s tomb one of the most attractive of them all. In one

I

‘ Lord Lindsay cannot contain his indignation at what has been done in
this tomb :—" The spoilers have been at work in Belzoni’s tomb: it makes the
heart ache and the cheek burn to see such wanton outrage; one whole pillar (to
'say nothing of partial robberies, ﬁgures cut in two for the sake of a limb or an or-
nament) has been stript of its sculptures, and stands a melancholy wreck, naked
and dazzlingly white= amidst its companions, the chips all around it—tongues
of reproach, that curse the hand that maimed it l”—According to Wilkinson, the
“total horizontal length of this catacomb is 320 it, without the inclined descent
below the sarcophagus, and its perpendicular depth 90. But including that part,
it measures in depth about 180 11., to the spot where it is closed by the fallen
rock.” The hieroglyphics show that the tomb was king Osirei’s, (3.0. 1385) the
father ofRemesesII,, who is supposed to be the great Sesostris of Egyptian histarv.

