THE FRANK MOUNTAIN. 357

him to the conclusion, that this locality was once deemed of
great importance, both as a place of strength, and as a ﬁtting
site for a large and beautiful cityﬁ“ Irby and Mangles men-
tion the tradition, apparently of recent date, that the Frank
Mountain was “maintained by the Franks forty years after
the fall of Jerusalem,” and the expulsion of the crusaders.
They go on, however, to say, that “the place is too small
ever to have contained one half the number of men which
would have been requisite to make any stand in such a coun-
try; and the ruins, though they may be those of a place
once defended by Franks, appear to have had an earlier ori-
gin, as the architecture seems to be Roman.”t Maundrell,
also, speaks of “a high, sharp hill, called the Mountain of
the Franks, because defended by a party of the crusaders
forty years after the loss of Jerusalem.”i

We found the ascent rather toilsome, though not diﬂicult.
The mountain is lofty, and rises from its base in the shape of
almost a perfect cone, truncated, however, at about three
fourths of its height. Our horses carried us a part of the way
up; but before reaching the top, we were obliged to dis-
mount, and proceed on foot the remainder of the way. In
’many respects, the view is ﬁne from the summit of this high
hill; but on the whole, it did not equal the expectations I had

‘ Josephus thus speaks of the Herodium: “ An artiﬁcial mound, shaped like
awoman’s breast, distant sixty furlongs from Jerusalem, Herod named simi-
larly and adorned in a more ambitious style. The ‘summit he embraced with
circular towers occupying the enclosure with the most sumptuous structures;
and not only did the interior of these present an air of magniﬁcence, but on
the outer walls also, with the battlements and roofs, was lavished a profusion
of costly ornaments. He moreover. conveyed to it, from a great distance, and
at an immense expense, an ample supply of water, and rendered the ascent
easy, by two hundred steps of the Whitest marble, the mound being of consid~
erable elevation and entirely artiﬁcial. He erected also, at the base, other
palaces for the reception of his furniture and friends; so that the fort, in the
diversity of its accommodation, resembled a town—in its circumscribed limits, a
royal residence.”—Joseph. ”Bell.Jud.” lib. i. cap. xx. 10.

1' Irby and Mungles's “ Travels,” &c., chap. vii., May 7th.

1: Maundrell’s “Journey,” 500., March 315:.

