INTERVIEW WITH THE BISHOP. 161

it was not the practice for priests to smoke pipes in our
country, and so the matter was not pressed, and out of com-
plaisance to me, none of them took their much-loved sh'z'buk.

In a short time the bishop, who had been sent for, arrived,
and all rose at his entrance and saluted him with reverence,
though not to the degree that I had looked for. He took a
seat in one corner, and politely invited me to sit by him, as-
suring me that I was welcome, with other complimentary
and kind expressions. His appearance, though not striking,
is on the whole pleasing, and not unimpressive; imagine a
pleasant smile, a rather good countenance, a dress after the
manner of the country, with dark blue turban, beard over his
whole face, ﬂowing robes, &c., and a person rather below the
usual height, and you have the bishop of Es-Siout before you
as nearly as I can describe him. Three or four priests were
also present and joined in the conversation, which was carried
on through Antonio, though I frequently understood their
inquiries before translated into our dragoman’s indifferent
English. or good French. A variety of inquiries were made,
some of them rather amusing, and showing a very limited
knowledge on the part of the dignitaries of the Coptic Church,
and in one or two cases not precisely the delicacy which suits
our western ideas of propriety. For instance, after some
general remarks on the topic of America, and the difference
between it and Egypt, where externally the ﬁelds, and trees,
and indeed everything indicated the summer or autumnal
season of America, which is now suffering from the wintry
cold and snow and ice, the bishop asked if our Sultan or
Mali/c, was a Mohammedan! On being assured that we had
neither a king nor any of the religion of Mohammed in the
United States, he seemed very much astonished and some-
what incredulous, as though it were hardly possible to escape
Turkish domination, or live without a king to rule and
govern the country. On my asking in general respecting
the churches in Es-Siout, the bishop did not appear to have

