18 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

and citrons, and some rather pleasant-looking villas, we crossed
the great square towards the new harbor. They lie at only
a short distance from the Frank quarter, and though not quite
so desolate as Pompey’s column, so far as human beings are
concerned, they are even more depressing and saddening in
their effect upon the mind, by the misery, degradation and
ﬁlth in close vicinity. we rode by a number of the mud
huts by the road side, and saw enough of their wretched and
debased inmates, and the heaps of mingled ﬁlth and ruins of
various kinds, to ﬁll us at "onoev'ith astonishment approach-
ing to disgust. It was a relief to us to ﬁnd Mr. and Mrs. B),
fellow New Yorkers, engaged in' the same occupation with
ourselves, that of “sight-seeing;” and I believe I am not
going too far in saying, that there has already sprung up an
intimacy between us, which promises to result in many days
and weeks of most pleasant and genial intercourse. The
standing obelisk is close to the water’s edge, and in the im-
mediate proximity of the remains of an old Roman tower.
It rises aloft to the height of nearly seventy feet, is about
eight feet in width at the bottom, tapering off gradually to
less than ﬁve feet at the point, where a pyramidieal pinnacle,
if I may so phrase it, completes the obelisk; and to one un-
acquainted with the hieroglyphics, with which each, of the
four faces is covered, it presents a mysterious and almost
solemn aspect. The material out of which the obelisks were
cut is the red granite of Syene, which is exceedingly hard
and durable, but does not appear to admit a very ﬁne polish.
There are three lines of hieroglyphics on each side, reaching
from the topmost point to the bottom of the obelisk ; the cen-
tral one is much the earliest, and ﬁxes the date of the king
in Whose reign it was originally wrought out and erected at
the place whence it was brought to Alexandria. As a matter
of curiosity, I measured one of the ovals of the central line
of hieroglyphics, and found it to be four feet in length, by
about two-thirds of that amount in width, a fact which may

