ELEPHANTINE AND ITS RUINS. 101

and mica. According to some, the ingredients of syenite are
quartz, felspar, mica and hornblende; but the syenite of! ari-
tiquity, used for statues, was really granite. Indeed, many
of the rocks of Syene contain all the four component parts;
and from their differing considerably in their proportions, afford
a variety of specimens for the collection of a mineralogist.”*

Elephantine, the “Isle of Flowers,”. and, according to He-
rodotus (lib; iii. 19),- the dwelling-place of the Ichthyophagi,
or fish-eaters, lies opposite Aswan, and in many respects quite
eduals Philae in picturesqueness and beauty. Mr. Denon
speaks of it and its ruins in Very highly laudatory terms, as
indeed, is his practice with nearly everything he saw in
Egypt. No doubt the time was, when its temples, with the
city of the same name, its quays and public ediﬁces, which,
as we are'assured, were on the same grand scale as the sacred
island of Philae, were exceedingly imposing and beautiful,
but now it would. be hard 'to ﬁnd a more desolate-looking
place than the major part of the island; and the few ruins
that are still preserved, hardly repay one for the trouble of
visiting them, and for the sadness which accompanies him in
such a locality, and amid the ruins of such greatness. Our
guide was perfect in his Way, and he dragged me from one
site to another,—now to seek for the scant traces of an an-
cient Nilometer, now to look at the remnants of an, ancient
quay, now to see a mutilated statue of Osiris, now to inspect
a ruined granite gateway, and now, amid the heaps and rub-
bish of mud huts, and across the hills and ﬁelds, to behold a
small sarcophagus cut in the solid granite rock, but empty
and unused, and Without mark to distinguish its age or
owner ; but I found very little to interest me in these ruins.
Much more attractive seemed the green ﬁelds of grain, the
stately palms, and the evidences of life, and of God’s good-
ness“a’nd mercy; “' for He maketh His sun to rise on the
evil and on the good, and sendeth rain on the just and en the

“ “ Hand Beak'fnnEgg/pl,” p. 417.

