PRESENTATION 013‘ MR. MACAULEY. 219

of music which would‘not disgrace the martialarrangements
of any country. The costume of the troops is peculiar, but
not unhandsome; the red tarbush, the white cotton dress,
the red slippers, thedark-brown skins of the soldiers, and
their neat accoutrements in ,general, formed rather marked
points in the view: and when, besides, the eye glanced over
themotley group of lookers-on, of all classes and descriptions,
with the Esbekiyeh behindyserving as an apt relief toythe
foreground, it was impossible not to be interested in, and
pleased with, this panoramic illustration of oriental life and
manners. Mr. Macauley was desirous of making the pre-
sentation as imposing as possible, and for this purpose had
invited Captain Gwynne and the ofﬁcers of the U. S. frigate
Constitution, lying at Alexandria, as well as all the Ameri-
cans in Cairo, to be present and go in procession to the Citadel.
Quite a goodly number assembled: the consuls of other pow-
ers paid Mr. M. their respects, the troops took up the line of
march, and the consul-general and his countrymen, in car-
riages, followed slowly on. This was about eleven o’clock;
but so crowded was the Mooskee, the main thoroughfare, and
so much curiosity was there manifested to get sight of the
strangers, that it took us more than an hour to reach the
Citadel: occasionally, too, on the road, some bright eyes and
pretty faces would be seen from the half open harim windows,
their curiosity getting the better of their prudence. On ar-
riving at the palace, there was a strange scene of confusion,
crowding and jostling, to get into the reception room, and for
a time, I was not sure but that the consul-general and his
countrymen would be completely excluded from the presence
of the Pasha. By pushing and knocking about for a while,
however, we all succeeded in getting in. The room is large,
of oblong shape, has a beautifully painted ceiling, and high
diwans upon three sides. In the centre of the diwan, oppo.
site the entrance, was perched a short, obese ﬁgure, with not
a bad, thoughzrather brutiﬁed face, and apparently about

