SOLOMON’S POOLS. 36l

structed on the steep sides of the valley, they rise one above
the other, but not in a direct line, toward the top of the hill,
so that in fact the bottom of the middle is higher than the
top of the lower pool, and the bottom of the upper higher than
the top Of the middle pool; there is, too, between them a dis-
tance of from about two hundred to two hundred and ﬁfty
feet. At the time we were there, the lower and middle pools
had not much water in them, in the case of the former, hardly
sufﬁcient to cover one half of the broad bottom; the upper
pool seemed to be about one third full, and the water was
probably about ten feet deep. It was certainly a peculiarity
worth noticing, that the sides of the reservoirs were covered
and made smooth with cement; the bottom was partly of the
rocks in their natural state; and in several places there were
ﬂights of steps which led down into the pools when the water
chanced to be low. The source whence these reservoirs were
supplied, is a sunken fountain situate in the high ground,
about three hundred feet to the north-west of the pools. Maun—
drell, in 1697, visited this fountain, and took some pains to
examine it; perhaps I cannot do better than quote his judi-
cious and accurate remarks, which will serve as a ﬁtting con-
clusion to all that need here be said of Solomon’s Pools. He
informs us that the waters “rise under ground, and have no
avenue to them but by a little hole like to the mouth of a
narrow well. Through this hole you descend directly down,
but not without some difﬁculty, for about four yards, and
then arrive in a vaulted room ﬁfteen paces long and eight
broad. Joining tO this is another room Of the same fashion,
but somewhat less, Both these rooms are covered with hand-
some stone arches, very ancient, and perhaps the work of
Solomon himself. You ﬁnd here four places at which the
water rises. From those separate sources it is conveyed by
little rivulets into a kind of basin; and from thence is carried

E. end, 250 it, W. end, 160 ft., depth, 39 IL; upper pool, length, 380 it, breadth,
E. end, 236 3., W. end, 229 (L, depth, 25 ft.

16

