MOSK 0F SULTAN HASSAN. 195

the spiritual, the inﬁnite: in the ediﬁces cf imposture and
false religion, all is sensuous, materializing, utilitarian, ex-
pedient;—and thus will it ever be, as it ever has been. After
mounting a number of steps, and making our way through
a crooked, narrow passage, we came to the entrance or door
nearest the tank for ablutions. Here I'had to go through the
same operation, of putting on slippers ‘over my boots before I
could enter. The interior is very large, and differs from “the
inosks of early times, and from the generality of those in
Cairo, consisting of a hyptethral court, with a square recess
on each side, covered by a noble and majestic arch, that on
the east being much more spacious than the other three, and
measuring sixty-nine feet ﬁve inches in span.” Besides the
pulpit, niche, etc., as in the mcsk of Sultan Tﬁlun, I noticed
a number of chains for lamps, which are suspended from the
ceiling, and the two rows of pretty colored glass vases, of
Syrian manufacture, bearing the name of the Sultan, and
hanging from the side walls: these add much to the effect of
the interior. Passing through a door, we came. into a large
room, with a very lofty dome of wood and plaster, and sdme
curious ornamental woodwork at the corners of the ceiling or
top of the wall. In the centre of this apartment is the tomb
of the Sultan Hassan: it is railed in, has a large old copy of
the koran lying upon it, and bears the date A.H. 764 (= A.D.
1363). The pavement here is a good deal out of repair, and
there is not that neatness which I had expected to ﬁnd in this
celebrated mosk. On the whole, however, it well repays the
visitor for the time spent in going through it, even if it have
no other effect than tolead him to the conclusion of the supe-
riority of Christian art, and the true value and excellence
of the religion of the cross.

In connection with this subject, it may not be out of place
to speak of several matters in and about Cairo, which are in
a degree related to that of which I have just been Writing
I refer to the Citadel, Mohammed Ali’s mosh, the tombs

