RAS EL AIN. , 465

there issues from it a stream like a brook, driving {our mills,
between this place and the sea, yet it is always brim-full.
On the east side of this cistern, was the ancient outlet of the
Water, by an aqueduct raised about six yards from the ground,
and containing a channel one yard wide, but this is now stop-
ped up and dry, the Turks having broken an outlet on the
other side, deriving thence a stream for grindingr their corn.
The aqueduct now dry is carried eastward about one hundred
and twenty paces, and then approaches the two cther cisterns,
of which one is twelve, the other twenty yards square.
These have each a little channel, by which they anoiently
rendered their waters into the aqueduct; and so the united
streams of all the three cisterns were carried together to Tyre.
You may trace out the aqueduct all along by the remaining
fragments of it. It goes about one hour northward, and then,
turning to the west, at a small mount, where anciently stood
a fort, but now a mosk, it proceeds over the isthmus, into the
city. As we passed by the aqueduct, we observed in several
places, on its sides and under its arches, rugged heaps of mat-
ter, resembling rocks. These were produced by the leakage
of the water, which petriﬁed as it distilled from above, and
by the continual adherence of new matter, were grown to a
large bulk. That which was most remarkable in them, was
the frame and conﬁguration of their parts. They were com-
posed of innumerable tubes of stone, of different sizes, cleav.
ing to one another like icicles. Each tube had a small cavity
in its centre, from which its parts were projected, in form of
rays, to the circumferences, after the manner of the stones,
vulgarly called, thunder-stones. The fountain of these waters
is as unknown as the contriver of them. It is certain, from
their rising so high, that they must be brought from some
part of the mountains, which are about a league distant, and
it is as certain that the work was well done at ﬁrst, seeing it
performs its oﬂice so well at so great a distance of time.”*

" Maundrell’s " Journci'," March 2151.

20*

