368 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

star of Bethlehem shine with a lustre all its own, that star
which had been the guide for so many days and on so long a
journey of the illustrious sages of the East: and these wise
men followed its guidance till it came and stood over where
the young Child was: with what exceeding great joy did they
enter the house; with what unhesitating faith did they wor~
ship the infant Saviour, and with what gladness did they
open their treasures, and as kings unto the King of kings did
they present unto Him gifts, gold, and frankincense, and
myrrh! And when they had gone away, rejoicing, unto their
own homes, alas, what a terrible blow fell upon Bethlehem!
God had sent away into Egypt both Joseph and the young
Child and his mother, when the bloody tyrant Herod, even
now on the brink of the grave, frustrated in his designs upon
the life of the Holy Child, sent his ruﬂian band to slaughter
the innocent babes of Bethlehem, and of all the coasts thereof.
It was a deed of horror, unsurpassed by aught of sanguinary
ferocity in that despot’s latter years; and might well lead the
Evangelist to adopt the striking ﬁgure of the prophet Jere-
miah; “in Ramah was there a voice heard, lamentation and
weeping, and great mourning, Rachel weeping for her chil-
dren, and would not be comforted, because they are not.”

I fear that you will think me needlessly prolix upon this
topic, and in truth I ought to apologize for the length to
which this letter has already extended. My excuse must be
sought in the fact, that such thoughts are, as it were, forced
upon the mind, while riding or walking in or near Bethlehem,
and the expression of them cannot well be restrained. I
have, however, but little more to say which will interest you
in the present excursion. In company with Mrs. Gobat and
children, and afterwards with the bishop himself, who had
walked out to meet his family, we rode slowly onward, meet-
ing many a pleasant, smiling face, and saluted with courtesy
by the Christian, but scowled at by the Mohammedan. We

t Matt. ii, 18; Jer. xxxi. 15.

