358 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

been led to form. To the south and west, the prospeﬁ
is very limited, though I had been told, that Hebron and its
vicinity could be 'seen from this elevation, which is quite the
reverse of the truth. Looking eastwardly, however, our eyes
were greeted with the sight of a considerable portion of the
Dead Sea, which lay spread out in all its silent gloom and
impressiveness, and seemed to harmonize well with the barren,
sterile, and as it were tenantless region round about. Long
and earnestly did we gaze upon this scene—a scene calculated
to ﬁll the mind with sad and solemn thoughts, and tending-to
fasten in the memory the fearful story of the awful Wicked‘
ness, and the no less awful punishment, of the cities of the
plain. Surely, in Palestine, if nowhere else, it is impossiﬂe
not to see the hand of God in the judgments and vengeance
He has denounced against all manner of iniquity. The View
to the north is extensive, but oﬂ'érs few points on which it is
Worth while :to dwell. We found it more interesting to ex-
amine, with no great minuteness it is true, the ruins of the
fortress which at one time occupied the summit of this moun-
tain. Dr. Robinson says, that the top of the hill constitutes
a circle of about seven hundred and ﬁfty feet in circumfer-
ence, and that the whole of this is enclosed by the ruined walls
of a circular fortress, built of hewn stones of good size, with
four massive round towers, standing one at each of the car-
dinal points. Without pretending to any knowledge of
military science, I was much impressed with the fact that
this post must have been impregnable, and that the persons
who originally built the fortiﬁcations must have looked upon
it as of prime importance, and worthy the care, labor, and ex-
pense bestowed upon it. One of the towers—that on the
east—is partially remaining, and gives one a good idea of the
solidity of the structure in its palmy days. Inside of the
walls, or ruins, the ground descends rapidly to a considerable
depth, not unlike the crater of a volcano. At present it is
difﬁcult to tell Whether there was formerly an excavation in

