476 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

great prophet, the widow of Zarephath, the barrel of meal and
the cruse of oil, the sickness and death of the widow’s son,
the raising him again to life, &c. We read also, in this con:
nection, of our Lord’s visit to this section of country, and the.
miracle which He graciously performed upon the Syro-Phe,
nician woman’s daughter. Our tent was pitched in the
middle of a large ploughed ﬁeld, and, saving occasionalrruins
of other days, and the knowledge of the fact. that Zarephath
was certainly somewhere near this spot, we should have pass-
ed over all these remains as not needing examination. During
the evening and night, it rained in torrents; and had not our
tent been a very excellent one, we should have suffered severely
from the superabundance of wet and (lamps. As it .was, the rain
came in a little, and the ground under foot was rendered soft,
very adhesiveyand very disagreeable. I hardly ,know how the.
poor Arabs stood it; but excepting some additional streaks of .
dirt, and a rather more than usual cadaverous expression of ,
face, they seemed, the next morning, to be as well as ever, and.
bustled about with uncommon activity. Probably, the pros-
pect of balc/Lshish, which they hoped soon /to receive, had .a
soothing effect upon their tempers and feelings.

We did not wait for our luggage on‘ the morning of the 27th,
but at a very early hour, before sunrise, were in the saddle,
lntending,if possible, to reach Beirut that day.~ The Weather
was cloudy, damp, and rather unpleasant, and the roads were
wet and muddy. Our course lay principally over the plain
between the sea and the .hills, and for several hours before ar-
riving, we had the city of Saida in full view; at a distance,
it looks very picturesque and beautiful, in the midst of a thick
grove of trees. Passing the fountains noticed by Dr. Robin-
son, and a number of small wadys fringed by oleanders in
bloom, at half-past seven we came to the Nahr cz-Zaherany,
a stream just now quite deep and turbid, but not difficult to
ford. We saw here the remnants of a bridge, and not far off
lay a Roman mile-stone. Between this and Saida we met

