 

320 -' EGYPT AND THE irony LAND.

thrust back by the mu‘skets'of Turkish soldiers :——thi'lhd
it, the foul indignity, Mohammedan guards in a Christ'-
churchl Turkish soldiers quartered in the consecratedwdt.
ﬂee, to keep the peace between the followers and Worshipan
of the Prince of Peace! Do you not feel a thrill of ind-g.
tion that such things should be? Ah, and does not the Bid
'of shame tinge our cheek, when we see and Imthhat.“
often these inﬁdel guards are necessary to put a stop-to 01’
rage and murder in the church covering the site of anew
druciﬂxion and resurrection? ' .I «0.

After entering the vestibule, the ﬁrst object pointed outta
us is a large marble slab, with massive candlesticks and!“
pended lamps surrounding it. Tommaso tells us, but not
quite with his usual air of conﬁdence, that it is the stone ﬁ
unction on which our Lord’s body was laid after His M
ﬁxiou, and when it was being prepared for the septum
it is semewhat painful to see the extravagance of derotien
of the kneeling and prostrate pilgrims over this palpable in
posture, though it need not be at all surprising to one who
recollects with what entire and perfect submission they»;-
ceive every ecclesiastical and monkish tradition which is an
them. Perhaps, too, it may please God to bless the-ignore“
worshipper who here paurS'cut his tears and sighs of cm
tion, more highly than falls to the lot of some of us who ii“
that We know too much to be imposed upon by superstitirm
and folly, and who are always more ready to doubt thank);
believe. Of course, if we follow our guide and the monks
whom he Summons to his aid,-we shall see all the marvellow
s‘acred spots included within the walls of this irregular];
shaped church ; as, the place of the nailing to the cross; the
pillar of ﬂagellation (or rather the piece of it, as Tommaho
Whispers to us); the place where the soldiers divided w
vestments; the prison in which the Saviour was detained
previous to the nailing to the cross; the spot where the MW
of our Lord stood during the cruciﬁxion ; the place wherexﬁ

