SYCAMORE OF THE HOLY FAMILY. 203

brief notice in his words: “On a red granite fragment, lying
some distance from the obelisk, are the name and mutilated
ﬁgure of the great Remeses ; and Mr. Salt found a pedestal
with a bull and Osiris, about a quarter of a mile to the east-
ward. The bull Mnevis shared with Re or Phra the worship
of this city, and was one of the most noted among the sacred
animals of Egypt. It was kept in a particular enclosure set
apart for it, as for Apis at Memphis, and enjoyed the same
honor in the Heliopolite as the latter did in the Memphite
nome.”*

At no great distance from the obelisk is “the fountain of
the Sun,” which has the reputation of being the only real
spring in the valley of the Nile, though in fact it is supplied,
like the other wells in Egypt, by ﬁltration from the river.
Passing by this, we rode a little way further, and like many
thousand pilgrims before our days, we went to see the Syca-
more of the Holy Family. It is a large old tree, in the midst
of a neat, pretty ﬂower garden, and has been visited by great
numbers of persons in years that are gone by. We saw here
several names of countrymen and others which we recognized,
and could hardly forbear smiling ‘at the strength of that pro-
pensity for cutting names in famous localities, which seems
to characterize the race to which we belong. Tradition—
though here of little if any value—relates that the “ fountain'
of the Sun” was once salt, but that by the visit of the Holy
Family it became sweet and pure; and further, that this is
the very tree, under which more than eighteen hundred years
ago, the blessed Virgin and Child with Joseph reposed for a
season, after theirlong and wearisome journey from J udea. We
spent some little time musing over the circumstances con-
nected with the Scripture history to which the tradition
points; and inclined more to pity than censure the eredulity
of the poor pilgrim who believes all that is told him on these

* “ Hand-Bookfzrr Egypt,” p. 168.

