48 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

skeptically inclined; but I profess to you, my dear S., that I
am not wholly satisﬁed on the subject of the Great Pyramid:
perhaps time will reveal what is now hidden from the wise
and learned laborers in the ﬁeld of Egyptian history and
antiquities.

Descending from the “King’s Chamber,” through the
“ Grand Gallery,” we came to the horizontal passage, noticed
above, as leading to the apartment called the “ Queen’s
Chamber :” this passage is less than four feet in height, and
three feet ﬁve inches wide, a fact which, as you perceive,
obliges one to stoop and creep along, in a manner extremely
disagreeable, especially when it is continued for a hundred
feet or more. Between the dust and heat, I found this the
most unpleasant part of our visit to the interior of the Pyra-
mid, and was far from sorry when permitted to stand upright
once more in the “ Queen’s Chamber.” It is not a large
apartment, and its roof is formed of long blocks of stone,
resting against each other, as over the entrance of the Pyra-
mid. The stones in the side-walls are ﬁnely ﬁtted or joined
together, and the chamber wears the appearance of having
been hewn out of the solid rock, which, however, is not the
case. Perhaps the most striking thing in connection with
this apartment is the fact, that it is directly under the apex
of the Pyramid, whereas we should have expected this to be
true of the “ King’s Chamber,” in preference every way. At
this point, according to Wilkinson, one stands seventy-two
feet above the level of the ground, four hundred and eight
feet below the original summit, and seventy-one feet below
the ﬂoor of the “King’s Chamber.”

There are other things in the interior of the Great Pyra-
mid, which we did not attempt to see, partly from the want
of means, and partly from the difﬁculty, not unattended
With danger, connected with them. I refer to the entresols
or chambers discovered by Col. Vyse, above the “King’s
Chamber,” and which are reached by means of a ladder, or

