.-

GREAT TURKISH BAZAAR. 18:]

market of the copper-ware dealers, the jewellers’ market or
bazaar, that of the hard-ware merchants, of the sword-mount-
ers, of the silk dealers, of the perfume-sellers, of the gold and
silver workers, 650. It will be quite impossible for us to do
more than look at one of these thoroughly; let us then go to
the great Turkish sock or bazaar, termed “Khan El-Khalee-
lee,”* from the sultan Khaleel, in Whose reign it was built,
AD. 1292, and we shall obtain probably the best idea which
Cairo affords of an oriental bazaar. It consists, as you see, of
a number of short lanes, connected with each other, and has
four entrances from different quarters. The shops are on
both sides, and are worth stopping to look at,~and to contrast
with the large and splendid shops in our western cities: 3
square recess or cell, perhaps seven or eight feet high, and
about half that distance in width, with narrow shelves for the
articles offered for sale, constitutes a shop in the “Khan El-
Khaleelee.” In front of the shops, you observe that there is a
raised seat of stone or brick, built up to a height even vw'th
the ﬂoor, i. e., about three feet above the ground: this seat
is about a yard wide, and having a carpet spread over it, with
a cushion to recline against, is used by the shop-keeper as -
well for his own purposes as to accommodate a customer with
a pipe and means of resting during the tedious process of con-
eluding a bargain. Several of‘ the bazaars, as you observe
here where we are at present, are covered over with matting
laid on loose reeds, or supported by more solid planks, ex-
tending across the street, at a' slight distance, usually, above
the houses.

* “The Khan Khuleel (or Khan Khaleelee) was built in 691, A.H. (AD.
1292) by one ofthe ofﬁcers ofthe reigning sultan, whose name, Khaleel, it bears.
This man. under the pretence of removing the bones of the caliphs to a more
suitable place ofinterment, is said to have thrown them carelessly on the mounds
ofrubbish outside the walls; to which profane conduct they ascribe his misera—
ble end; having been killed in battle in Syria, and his body having been eaten
by dogs. This. like many other Arab stories, may be doubted."—-“ Hand Book
for Egypt," p. 141.

7

