426 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

the mountain run, like a coronet, the traces of a terrace,
which was probably formed as a decoration to the royal reﬁ-
dence.” We spent some little time in visiting and examining
the remains of the colonnade, which is situate some distance
below the summit of the hill, and on its south-west side or
slope. A large number of the pillars are still standing, and
most of them are in very good preservation: they are of lime-
stone, about eighteen feet in height and nearly two in diam-
eter; the width of the colonnade Dr. Robinson gives as ﬁfty
feet. We followed its course a long way, and were quite
satisﬁed that it extended around the base of the hill for con-
siderably more than half a mile from the point of beginning.
It was a sad sight, however, to look upon; for though as
many, probably, as a hundred columns are still standing, and
the course and splendor of the colonnade as a whole may
readily be imagined; still here they stand in the midst of
ploughed ﬁelds, and utter loneliness and desertion, and in
every direction portions of their companions form part of the
rude walls for terracing up the slopes, or are half buried in
the ground, or carried off to aid in building the houses in the
modern town. Truly, a termination to the labors and wealth
of the sanguinary tyrant Herod the Great, which he never
anticipated; and we who come from a far-off land and gaze
upon the pillars, neither know when they were erected or to
what ediﬁce they belonged. We do know that he rebuilt the
city of Samaria, adorned it with magniﬁcent structures, and
named it, after the emperor Augustus, Sebaste ;* but we
know little more than this. His wealth and magniﬁcence,
his power and glory have all faded away, and naught remains
but the memory of his evil deeds, his murders, his jealousies,
his awful Wickednesses. O, as we turned away and left this
colounade to its unbroken solitude, how loathsome appeared

‘* Selina-6; is the Greek for Augustus; Ecﬁaurﬁ is the feminine of the same
adjective, agreeing with new, city; and hence “ Sebaste,” the namefrom which
we have the present Arabic title, “ Sebustieh."

