178 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

a donkey, and now some opposition brute is all but thrust
betwixt his legs; this boy shouts, that half‘grown man
screams, another praises the saddle of his donkey, a fourth
beseeches the gentleman to try his beast, a ﬁfth falls foul of
number two, a sixth begins to belabor number three and his
donkey——and so they go on, talking all known languages, and
several that are not known, until the poor European at last
gets on to one of the steeds, and the tempest subsides, only
to be renewed again at the ﬁrst opportunity.

As the day wanes, similar scenes are enacted; the streets
present the same appearance of crowding and jostling; of
threading one’s way amid camels, with heavy, wide-spreading
loads, and donkeys with panniers ﬁlled with stones or vege-
tables, or laden with water-skins or great bundles of grass;
of escaping from being run down by a horse, and narrowly
missing being crushed by a cart against the side of a house;
of pushing your neighbor out of the way, and being as uncer-
emoniously used by some one else; and such-like. Just lis-
ten to the donkey-boys, as they beat their little brutes, and
warn pedestrians to get out of the way: ‘yemeenak.’ shi-
malak.” (to thy right! to thy left!) ‘dahmk!’ (thy back!)
‘wz‘slzshak.” (thy face!) ‘ gembak.” (thy side!) ‘rz'glalc." (thy
foot !) kaabak.” (thy heel!) Hear them call out to a Turk,
‘salcz‘n .” (take care!) to a Frank, ‘ ya khawageh .” to some
poor woman, ‘ya 11th .” (‘ daughter’ or ‘ girl’), to an old man,
‘g/a, sheikh.” etc., etc.* The street is full, very full, as it
would seem, having no sidewalks to protect the pedestrian,
but all being in common; the various classes, ages, and sexes
use such part or parts of the street as they can ﬁnd; and it
is Wonderful to notice how seldom an accident happens, how
unfrequently any one is hurt, how well, on the whole, every-
body manages to get along, and both to give and receive his
or her share of jostling and pushing, without offence meant
or taken.

‘ Lane‘s “ i’Wodern Egyptians,” vol. i. p. 209.

