ANCIENT ALEXANDRTAr 9'

when the son of Philip ﬁred upon this spot to found a city
in, which might rival the whole World. The modern tow‘n
cannot boast much, either in extent or beauty; and, ‘while it
owes very much of its present importance and improvement
on former days“ to the genius and policy of Mohammed Ali,
it still appears to our eyes as a mere remnant of departed
glory and grandeur, and, as it were, in a condition than which
nothing could well be worse. It is curious to contrast the
language of the ancient geographer Strabot with the repre-
sentations of modern travellers. the former, In his great Work
on Geography, says: “The site of the city has the form of
a (Macedonian) mantle, whose two longest sides are bathed
by water to theextent of nearly thirty stadia (i. e. 312- miles),
and its breadth is 'seven or eight’stadia (i. e. a mile), with the
sea on one side, and the lake (Mareotis) on the other. The
whole is intersected with spacious streets, through which
horses and chariots pass freely; but two are of greater
breadth than the rest, being upwards of a plethrum (2101
feet) wide, and these intersect each other at right angles.
Its temples, grand public buildings, and palaces, occupy a
fourth or a third of the whole extent, for every successive
king, aspiring to the honor of embellishing these consecrated
monuments, added something of his burn to What already
existed. All these parts are not only connected with each
other, but with the port and the buildings that stand outside
of it.”1 Few of those who have visited Alexandria within

* The pepulation of Alexandria had become reduced as low as‘ 6000, it is
said, and some ofthe early travellers term it a petty, mean village; but under
the late pasha, the number of inhabitants is estimated to have risen as high as
80,000 including about 20 000 engaged 1n military and naval service. According
to Wilkinson, the inhabitants are ofa mixed race, from the coast ofBarbary, and
all parts of Egypt, with Turks, Albanians, Syrians, Greeks, Jews, Copts, and
Armenians, independent of Frank settlers. The aspect and general appearance
of the city, it is asserted, have also materially improved.

1‘ Strabo, Geagr. lib. xvii. p. 793, Paris ed. 1620.

It. According to Pliny (Nat. Hist, v. 10), the circumference of ancient Alexan-
dria was ﬁfteen miles, and its population more than 300,000, besides, at least, an

