204 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

subjects, we bade adieu toiI-Ieliopolisiand its vicinity, and rode
back to Cairo.

There is not much congruity, I confess, between visiting
and exploring ruins, and enjoying the'luxuries of an oriental
bath; and you may not be able to see exactly-why I introduce
the latter into such grave and staid company. In good sooth,
I have no especial reason, though Isuspect one might be
found for this as well as other things; the simple honest truth
is, that I have a page or two to spare at this time, and I have
really enjoyed this sort of bath so much, that I quite want to
tell you all about it; it is needful, too, in order to illustrate a
striking feature in oriental life and customs.

It was one of the best establishments in the city, though in
an out-of-the-way street, to which we went, on our initiation
into one of the greatest sources of pleasure and amusement ti)
orientals.alt The entrance is through a narrow door and pas-
sage-way, which introduce the visitor into a large apartment,
paved with» different colored marble, intermixed with pieces
of red tile. Round the sides of the room are high raised seats
or diwans to recline on, and according to one’s taste, to use for
saying his prayers against the jinn and other evil inﬂuences,
or to undress and get ready for the bathing operation inside.
Several bleached objects were lounging here after their bath,

'smoking, chatting, or sitting in dreamy vacuity, which de-
lights the Turk especially on such occasions. We passed on
to an inner room, which is considerably smaller, and has an
arched ceiling overhead, whence' the light comes, two raised
seats, etc. The warm vapor in‘this apartment had an im-
mediate and sensible eﬂ'ect upon our feelings, and we were
very glad to disrobe ourselves as quickly as possible. Leaving
our clothes, 660., in the hands of the keeper, who is held re-
sponsible, and with a napkin round the loins and wooden
clogs on the feet, to save one from slipping, as much as any-

" There are some sixty or seventy baths of various» sizes and qualities in
Cairo.

