270 EGyPT AND THE HOLY LAnD.

down, the street being in many places paved in the form of ,
stairs; the evident state of ruin, and almost desolation, which
characterizes some portions of the town, not only annoy'the
traveller, who has to make his way as best he can, amid loose
stones, dirt and nastiness, but till his mind with sadness and
regret, that the Holy City should be thus degraded, and
brought low. I certainly thought, when ﬁrst we rode through
the streets of Jerusalem, on our arrival, that ,I had never seen
so dirty and uncomfortable, so ill kept and so unpleasant a
city, as this ; and I ﬁnd that most of travellers receive much
the same impressions; but you must not suppose that it is,
in reality, worse than other oriental towns; it would be un-
fair and unjust, to single it out for censure, when in fact,
while it has many things in common with most eastern cities,
it has several features of interest peculiar to itself, and which
render it more than ordinarily attractive to the Christian pil-
grimﬁ-2 After the rain had subsided, Iwas surprised to notice
the difference; the streets soon became comparatively dry
and clean, and though they are very narrow, and very crook-
ed sometimes, though by the custom of building over them,
you pass under arches and dark passages, not the most pleas-
ant, and certainly not the cleanest in the world, yet after all,
one soon becomes accustomed to such things. The necessity
of having narrow streets becomes most sensibly evident, after
one has been exposed to the scorching sun for an hour or so,

* Dr. Robinson, who is not certainly to be accused of being carried away by
poetic fancy or fervor, expresses himself as agreeably disappointed with J erusa-
lem; he thus speaks: “ From the descriptions of Chateaubriand and other
travellers, I had expected to ﬁnd the houses of the city miserable, the streets
ﬁlthy, and the population squalid. Yet the ﬁrst impression made upon my
mind was of a different character; nor did I afterwards see any reason to
doubt the correctness of this ﬁrst impression. The houses are in general better
built, and the streets cleaner, than those of Alexandria, Smyrna, or even Con-
stantinople. Indeed, of all the oriental cities which it was my lot to visit, Je-
rusnlem, alter Cairo, is the cleanest and most solidly‘built. The streets, indeed,
are narrow, and very rudely paved, like those of all cities of the East. The
houses are of hewn stone, often 1arge,”&c.—” Biblical Researches,” vol i. p. 328,

