246 EGYPT AND THE HOLY nAND.

oppressed country. There are, some traditionary remain)-
connected with the Scriptural account of Samson’s exploits,
but as the envious walls of the Lazaretto have restrained
our liberty entirely, we have been unable to explore the:
town or its environs, and have had to be content with such
knowledge of ‘it as we could gain from gazing at it some two
hundred yards oﬂ'. Fortunately, a considerable part of the:
city is situate on a high hill between one and two miles from
the sea, and is therefore a very prominent object to one who
looks upon it with the interest which it inspired in us. I am
sorry to say, however, that we could distinguish nothing with:
precision, and could only notice that it appears to be a large
and populous town, abounding in monks, tombs of saints, (See.
The ancient city appears to have stood on the hill, which is
well calculated for erecting defences; the modern town is
mainly in the valley on the east and north. To the south-
east is a hill of no great height, called by some writers,
“ Samson’s Mount,” as being the hill mentioned in the book
of Judges (chapter xvi. 3) to which Samson carried off the
doors of the gate of Gaza. This bill might properly be said
to be before, i. e. towards, Hebron, since there is no reason
to suppose that the doors of the gate were carried to any
great distance; certainly we can hardly imagine that they
were transported to the vicinity of Hebron, a city some
thirty-ﬁve or forty miles off. Dr. Robinson has collected to-
gether much interesting historical matter in connection with
Gaza; permit me to refer you to his elaborate volumes for.
further information. As I have not had an opportunity to
visit the city as I desired, I beg to quote from the learned
author, a passage in respect to its present condition: “All
vestiges of the ancient walls and ancient strength of Gaza
have disappeared; and nothing remains to mark its former
extent, except the bounds of the hill itself on which it stood.
Even the traces of its former existence, its vestiges of anti-
quity, are very rare; consisting of occasional columns of

