346 EGYPT AND ma HOLY, LAND.

it must be still conceded, that it is very improbable that the
knowledge of those lying immediately around them should
entirelywdie out. The presumption, then, would seem rea-
sonable that the Christians at Jerusalem must have been ac-
quainted with the real Calvary, when Constantine erected
the original church of the Holy Sepulchre upon the same 'site
occupied by that now standing.”—“ Walks about Jerusalem,”
p. 169, 170.

“I believe that the boundaries of property were Well de-
ﬁned, and registers kept, describing every ﬁeld and house,
and more especially everything in the immediate proximity
of the capital of a Roman colony, as [Elia Capitolina was in
the time of Constantine; so that I do think it more than
probable that he (the emperor) possessed the means of ascer‘
taining the fact beyond all doubt; indeed, the narrative of
Eusebius seems to presuppose that such information did exist,
for there is no doubt or hesitation apparent, either in the mind
of the emperor or the historian, as to where the place was. . . .
Golgotha . . . . must have been at all times one of the best
known spots about Jerusalem, and one as likely to have re-
tained its name, in the time of Constantine, as any other ,—
so much so that it appears to me almost a work of superero-
gatiou to go to the register, or any remote argument, for its
ﬁxation ; and even supposing all Christian tradition to have
been silent, and no registers to have existed, I cannot but
think that Constantine might easily have ascertained the
knowledge he scught, of the exact position of that spot, and
from that at least known whereabouts the sepulchre stood, ——
if he could not point out exactly the identical cave in which
the body was laid. My own belief 13, that he had the means
of ascertaining both, but most certainly that of Golgotha.”—-
Fergusson’s “Essay on the Ancient Topography of Jerusw
lam,” p. 85, 86.

“ Is the alleged site of the Tomb of Christ, over which the,
Church of the Holy Sepulchre is built, really beyond the line

