SCENERY ALONG THE NILE. 29

you sail along, you see the active boatmen of the Nile, busily
engaged in their occupation, singing and shouting, and spending
.much labor in accomplishing little work, as is usual in.Egypt.
,On the low banks of the river, or some shoal place, you notice
ﬂocks of various sorts of birds—pigeons, ducks, herons, &c.,
and now and then a vulture or a falcon-kite will sail slowly
by, or hover for a few moments overhead, as if waiting for
its accustomed prey. Occasionally, too, the white dome of
some Mohammedan saint’s tomb will strike the eye, as one
of the few picturesque objects in Egyptian scenery; and the
creaking of the sakieh, or water-wheel, by which the water
of the river is raised to a sufﬁcient level to irrigate the ﬁelds,
~or the tedious process of accomplishing the same end by
.means of the shadﬁf, or bucket, at the end of a pole, moving
on a pivot, and having a weight at the opposite end, very
similar to the machinery of the old-fashioned country wellsﬁ“
gives note of the industry of the agricultural population, and
insensibly turns the thoughts upon what might be the hap-
piness of Egypt and its people, were» Mohammedan bigotry
and intolerance rooted out, and the civilization and reﬁnement

O

* The ”sakieh" mainly consists of a vertical wheel, which raises the water in
earthen pots attached to cords, and forming a continuous series; a second ver-
tical wheel ﬁxed to the same axis, with cogs; and a large horizontal cogged
wheel, which, being turned by a pair of cows or bulls, or by a single beast, puts
,in motion the two former wheels and the pots. The construction of this machine
is of a very rude kind; and its motion produces a disagreeable creaking noise.
The “ shaduf” consists of two posts or pillars of wood, or of mud and canes or
rushes, about ﬁve feet in height and less than three feet apart, with a horizontal
piece of wood extending from top to top, to which is suspended a slender lever,
.formed ofa branch of a tree, having, at one end, a weight chieﬂy composed of
mud, and at the other, suspended to two long palm sticks, a vessel in the form
of a bowl, made of basket work, or of a hoop and a piece of woollen stuff or
leather: with this vessel the water is thrown up to the height of about eight feet,
into a trough hollowed out for its reception. In the southern parts of Upper
Egypt, four or ﬁve shadlifs are required, when the river is at the lowest, to raise
the water to the level of the ﬁelds. There are many shadufs with two levers,
one, which are worked by two men. The operation is extremely laborious.—
Lane’s, “ IlIodern Egyptians,” vol. ii. pp. 30, 31.

