INTERIOR OF THE PYRAMID. 45

Jud others severely and justly criticise, as in bad taste and
quite out of place.* It took some time to arrange the pre-
liminaries necessary before entering, to see that a sufﬁcient
number of candles were ready, to pick out our attendants, to
insist upon only just so many going in with us, 650.; and
then, one after another, steeping with our faces toward the
opening, and walking backwards, as well as we were able,
we went slowly in. The direction of this and all the pas-
sages is in a due north and south line, and we proceeded
downward at an angle of 27° for about eighty feet, sometimes
slipping over the smooth stones under our feet, and very soon
feeling the change in the temperature and the annoyance of
the dust, which is here rather abundant. At this point we
noticed the forced passage which has been made by those who
opened the Pyramid, and were unable to remove a granite
block which closed the entrance to the upper passage; and
as they could not enter at the proper point where this pas-
sage joins the lower, they forced a way into it by hollowing
out the rooﬁng, and cutting away the upper part of the side
of the lower passage. This circumstance obliges one to climb
up a few rough steps, when he ﬁnds himself in a passage

" “ In one corner of' this pediment Prof. Lepsius has, if it may be allowed to
say so ofso learned and able a man, with a somewhat, questionable taste, carved
out a tablet, and adorned it with a long, and doubtless very correct, hieroglyphic
inscription, in honor of his sovereign, king William of Prussia, and ofVictoria,
queen of England, strikingly inappropriate in that place~an anachronism
both in character and composition—illegible to the great mass of mankind—and
to the few learned who can read it, a counterfeit, proclaiming itself to be
such ;~a line added to the Iliad in commemoration of Waterloo,"—u Lands Clas-
tt'cal and Sacred," vol. i. p. 119.

Dr. Wilson also speaks rather tartly of this addition to the Great Pyramid:
“ Whatever may be thought of the taste in which this bedaubery originated,
more especially as associated with the name of one of the ﬁrst of Egyptian an-
tiquariana, and his generous regal patron, I have no hesitation in saying that
were all gentlemen obliged to produce appropriate and intelligent hieroglyph-
ics, according to the ancient form and style and language, as in this instance,
when they scribble on the monuments of Egypt, We should have but seldom oc-
casion to complain of their oﬁiciousness.”—“ Lands qfthe Bible,” vol. i. p. 83.

