THE QUESTION STATED. 329

rounded by dwellings and buildings to a considerable extent.
It is plain, then, that if the present be coincident with the an-
cient wall, this could not be the site of the cruciﬁxion, and
the place of entombment; and on the settlement of this point
depends, virtually, the whole question. If it be true, that-
this locality was anciently Within the city wall, then of course
notaword more can be said in its defence; butif it can be shown
that it was outside the wall, in the time of our Saviour, then
even the most strenuous opponents of its genuineness are willing
to yield without further discussion. Dr. Robinson’s efforts
are directed with great force to the proving, that the ancient
wall so ran as to include the traditionary site of the Holy
Sepulchre; Mr. Williams’s labors are specially devoted to a
defence of the present site, and an elaborate and luminous
display of the arguments of a topographical character, which,
in his opinion, clearly settle the matter in favor of the an-
cient tradition on this subject. Mr. Fergusson agrees with
neither of these learned writers, and advocates a theory pe-
culiar to himself, a theory which, despite his learning, acute-
ness, and capacity for argumentation, is so really extravagant,
socompletely unsettles all the received and certain views of au-
thors and travellers, in regard to the topography of Jerusalem,
and has so small foundation in fact, that it can never obtain
general approbation, but rather the reverse. As you perceive,
then, it becomes necessary to examine the topographical ar-
gument ﬁrst of all; we will, subsequently, consider the value
to be attached to the tradition, which has been handed down
to us from the ﬁrst ages, in respect to the places of our Sa-
viour’s death and burial.

Josephus gives a description of the walls of Jerusalem,
stating that there were three which protected the city in those
parts, where the deep valleys rendered this precaution un-
necessary. The ﬁrst wall commenced at the Tower of Hip-
picus, ran along the northerly brow of Mount Zion, to the
Xystus, and ended at the west cloister, or portico of the tem-

s.

