SCRIPTURAL ILLUSTRATIONS. 353

towers, which are usually very solid and secure, and being
built of stone to the height of about twenty feet, serve admi-
rably for the purposes of defence against an enemy, or for
protection against the sudden storms of the country. We
had them in sight during the greater part of the day, and
could not but think of the deep meaning couched under
ﬁgures, so well known and so easy of application by those to
whom the language of Holy Scripture was addressed. How
touching the expostulation, “What could have been done
more to my Vineyard that I have not done in it?” How true
is it that “the vineyard of the Lord of Hosts, the house of
Israel, and the men of Judah” is laid waste, its hedge taken
away, its wall broken down, its tower in ruins; for “he
looked for judgment, but behold oppression, for righteousness,
but behold a cry!” How true, too, is it that the guilty
husbandmen in our Lord and Master’s vineyard, not only
shamefully entreated His servants, killed His prophets, and
stoned them that were sent unto them, but consummated
their long and dreadful career of wickedness, by taking away
the life of the well-beloved son of the lord of the vineyard;
and thus brought upon themselves destruction and misery unut.
terable! While we rejoice that the branches which have
been broken off from the good olive tree, “ if they abide not
in unbelief, shall be grafted in, for God is able to grad‘ them
in again,” let us not be highminded but fear; “for if God
spared not the natural branches, take heed lest He also spare
not us.”*

You will not doubt that the reﬂections inspired by these
and similar passages of God’s Holy Word were of a Whole-
some and proﬁtable character: few, I imagine, can visit the
Holy Land without learning much in respect to the meaning
of Scripture, even if it do not touch their hearts with its
solemn and awful, as well as joyful and glorious truths, as
forcibly as it ought; while to those who read it and study it,

* Rom. xi. 20, 21, ‘23.

