THE LADDER on. TYRE. 463

dred feet into the sea, dashing against its base, and almost,
necessarily cutting off the further progress of the traveller.:
Were it not that the patient labor of man had here been put
forth to surmount obstacles apparently too great for removal,
there could be no roadway over this striking promontory; but‘
if the tradition be correct, Alexander the Great caused to be'
cut in the solid rock a broad. way fore horses and camels,
which has become known and renowned by the title of the
“Ladder of Tyre,” and by which, though on the very edge of
the precipitous rocks, he descends the long and winding line
of steps made in their sides, as well without fear as in perfect
safety. You will believe me, that the road over this famous-
mek-hewn way was not without its excitement; and we felt
all the force of that sublimity which attaches to positions such
as this in which We were placed. “The shrieking of the sea-
birds, that wing their way in mid air between the brow of
this mountain and the deep sea it overhangs, whose waves
are heard moaning faintly in the depths below, and whose
high horizon blends itself with the sky, adds vastly to the be-
wildering grandeur of the scene ;” and when, besides, you rec:
ollect that the dark clouds were hangingover our heads, and
occasionally pouring out their contents upon us, you .will not
wonder that the scene is vividly impressed upon our memories;
Crossing Wady Ain-Tineh, which, atrthis season is usually
dry in most of its.course, and riding over the level tract by
the sea-side, we arrived, at a:. quarter past ten o’clock, at
Ras el-Ain, one of the most interesting spots in this part of»
Syria. The size and extent of the reservoirs, the abundant
supply of .Water, the vicinity to Tyre, the, remains of a large
aqueduct, and other. matters of this sort, render them well
worthy a visit. We dismounted, and spent some little time
here; and While looking about, were surrounded by a troop
of children and beggars, Who were utterly unable to give us
any information, or answer any, even the simplest. questions.
[have just .been reading-over Maundrell’s account of this

