EL ARIsH AND ITS NEIGHBORHOOD. 243

town entirely, to prevent its being of any value to the Eng-
lish. There are now some palm trees on the site, two old
tombs of Mohammedan saints, some remains of the old walls
and fortiﬁcations, doc. Just beyond, we passed the third of
Ibrahim Pasha’s camel stations. It consists of a deep well
of brick, of circular shape, say ten feet in diameter by eighteen
feet deep: the water is very brackish, and unﬁt to drink,
though the camels, who had had no water for six days, man-
aged to satisfy their thirst upon it. Beside the well there is a
long, wide trough of masonry, about forty feet in length, into
which the water was conveyed, by means of a sakieh: this
machine is not now in use, and the Water is obtained by means
of a rope attached to a small jar, let down into the well.

The succeeding two days offer nothing of special import
to mention; we had the same unmitigated desert, and passed
through much the same scenes, as previously. We came near
the sea, which was close on our left hand, saw some gazelles,
some of the. desert quails, and other birds, herds of camels
feeding, &c. The Bedawin tax gatherers came upon us to
claim tribute, and every now and then,hwe would light upon
some one of their ,encampments. On the 28th, at ten A.M.
we arrived at El Arish, the ancient R/Lifwcolum : it is nearly
two hundred miles from Cairo, and only about a mile from
the sea. There is here a large brick fort, in unserviceable
condition at present, and the town consists of a number of
mud walled huts or houses. The medical ofﬁcer stopped us
on the ,frontier of Egypt, and we found it necessary to register
ourselves, our camels, and other matters, which is done merely
to give a fee to the ofﬁcer there, and was of no sort of use to
us. We saw here, the- most villainous-looking soldiers and
hangers-on, about the quarantine station, which I have ever
met with. After an hour’s detention, we were suffered to de-
part, and crossed the VVady el Arish, which is supposed to be
the mountain torrent, or ﬁumen Egyptiacum, the ancient

I

