310 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

something,” sayS‘Mr. Bartlett,“ in the scenery of this valley
and the hill above, its tombs hewn in the rock, long since
tenantless; the gray gloom of its old ﬁg and olive trees,
starting from the ﬁssures of the crags; the overhanging wall
of Zion, desolate almost as in the time of her captivity, that
forcibly recalls the wild and mournful grandeur of the pro:
phetic writings. Within it, too, is the traditionary ‘Aceldama,’
or Field of Blood, of the traitor Judas ; a small plot of
ground, overhung with one precipice, and looking down ano-
ther into the glen below, on which is a deep charnel-house,
into which it was formerly the custom to throw the bodies of
the dead, as the earth was supposed to have the power of rap
idly consuming them. This place was selected as the burial-
plaee for pilgrims who died at Jerusalem in the middle ages.
Such are the scenes that have passed in Hinnom; it is like
the scroll of the prophet, ‘written within and without with
mourning, and lamentation, and woe.’ ”*

At this time we will not dwell upon the more minute points
in the prospect before us ; as a whole, this deep valley has an
air of beauty unsurpassed by aught in the vicinity of Jeru-
salem; and the terraced sides of the mount, the gardens of
olive, ﬁg, and other trees, the verdant plots of grain and grass,
the few features of life and activity in the rustic cultivators
of the soil, and such like, give to it attractions of no ordinary
kind; but it requires more space than I can now devote to it,
to do it justice. We must hasten on: passing by the Foun-
tain of Nehemiah, or well of Job (Joab), which is probably
identical with En-Rogel, we spent a little while in gazing
upon the Pool of Siloam, where are “the waters of Shiloah
that go softly.”1L It is picturesquely situate on the steep of
Mount Zion, with the lofty hill rising up grandly above it,

The pleasant valley of Hinnom, Tophet thence
And black Gebenna call’d, the type of hell."
“ Paradise Lost,” Bk. I.

‘ “ Walks about Jerusalcm,” p. 62. 1‘ Is. viii. 6.

