THE POOL 0F SILOAM. 311

to a great height, and is a favorite place of resort to the pil-
grim who loves to meditate upon sacred things, and our Lord’s
love and mercy to body as well as soul. We here turn to
the northward again. On our right, perched on the shelving
cliﬂ's which overhang the valley of Jehoshaphat, is the petty
village of Selwan, or Siloam, with its scanty population,
and its dwellings in the excavated rock, and some dis-
tance up the valley, pursuing the dry bed of the Kedron, we
come to the Fountain of the Virgin, which, it was ascertained
by Dr. Robinson, is connected by means of a subterranean chan-
nel cut in a serpentine course (1750 feet long), with the Pool of
Siloam. This fountain is well worth examination, and deeply in-
terests the visitor,who descends a ﬂight of well-worn steps,cut
through the rock, and very irregular, into a chamber, or cave in
the rock, roughly hewn, and well (though not steadily,) sup-
plied with water. Mr. Williams informs us that there are
twenty-six steps, making the depth about twenty-ﬁve feet, for
the steps are deep. On the present occasion we may not go
down into the fountain, for a number of girls and women are
there, paddling in the cooling stream, and lingering to enjoy
its luxuries before they ﬁll their jars for the supply of their
homes, in the village of Siloam, opposite. I regret this, be-
cause it would be pleasant to drink some of that water, the
taste of which, we are told, “ is very peculiar, and never to be
mistaken when once known. . . . It; is scarcely ‘ brackish ;’
it is best described by an old writer, as ‘z'nsz'pid ," but the
villagers of Siloam drink thereof, and their ﬂocks, and dopnot
ﬁnd it unwholesome, but the contrary.” Mounting the hillside
once more, by a rugged and toilsome path, we follow' again
the course of the wall on the side of the Haram : all around
are the tombs and graves of the Mohammedan dead ; on our
left is the long line of lofty wall, looking down from this side,
into the great depth of which Josephus speaks, in giving an
account of the temple ediﬁce ; and faraway on the right is the
picturesque scene to which I have before alluded, in our walk

