LANES AND BY-PATHS IN CAIRO. 181

shops is quite dark, and it is not without difﬁculty that you
can distinguish any objects at all. If you look upward for a.
moment, you discover that it is not altogether the narrowness
of the street or lane which causes this sort of twilight; for
there you see how the windows and upper stories, in many
cases, project beyond the perpendicular, for two feet or more
on both sides of the passage, which, of course, diminishes the
space so much, that neither the sun nor the light can pene-
trate with any great effect, We leave this lane at this point,
and turn down another, which, amusingly enough called
“Broadway,” goes at one time under portions of houses, and
is quite dark; and at another becomes quite wide, i. 6., some
seven or eight feet, which appears well by contrast. Now we
see houses in ruins, and the rubbish in the middle of the
street, as is sometimes the case in our part of the world.
Now we pass along, without meeting a single individual;
now we meet a crowd of boys and donkeys; a number of
veiled objects, which appear to be of all colors and ages; and
a string of camels, with immense loads, which require the
pedestrian to take shelter in a doorway, or where he best may,
to avoid being crushed, as they stalk slowly by. And thus
we continue, turning in and out, up and down, meeting all
sorts of curious things, oorning in contact with all classes,
from the gaudily dressed lady, waddling along in silks, to the
, most miserable fellah woman, with scarcely half a blue shirt
to cover her nakedness, and with a child devoid of clothing
astride of her shoulder. And though, at times, in crowds and
thoroughly jostled, yet often we are quite alone, and surprised
to see how few people are in the streets and lanes of the city.
But let us enter a house; it is the mansion of a dear friend,
yet in nearly all respects is like other houses in Cairo. At
the door, or just inside, stands the porter who admits us.
You see there is a small court, which in many cases is much
larger, and has a well and some other things in it; but as
yet there is no appearance of life or of inmates, and only

