394 EGYPT AND- THE HOLY LANf).

strenuously to maintain it against ~. all objectors. I am quite
convinced that the common Arab stories are worthless on
any question of importance ;* and few travellers can venture
to trust them at all. But this by the way. _

About half-past six, We came to the few scattered huts,
which, to nyy astonishment, I was told was all that remained
to mark the site of the City of Palm Trees.’r A few miser-
able fellahin were lounging under the shade of some. trees,.and
smoking the shibuk and shisheh,‘as is their custom ; and here
and there were some rude dwellings of the’inhabitants, having
nothing to indicate the possession of aught but the simplest
and commonest means ofilife: and this was all.i What a
contrast, when we looked backupon its past history, and thought
of its strength, power, magniﬁcence, and beauty, in early
days! Who that had not seen the utter desolation which has
come upon the renowned cities and kingdoms of the world,iih
timew past, would believe that the m’assive structures, the in-
exhaustible resources, the uncounted wealth, of a great city
like Jericho could pass away forever, and leave not a trace of
their existence behind? When the king of this strong city
and the people, in the days of Joshua, ,sto‘od upon the walls,
and beheld that great host of God’s people approaching, after
their miraculous passage acrossnthe Jordan, how did, their
hearts rejoice in their towers of might and grandeur, and how
did they trust in their walls of ‘solid.masonry, and their capa-
oility of keeping out all invaders! Vain'and futile hope, this
of theirs! God Himself, without one blow being struck, one

* Sir Gardner Wilkinson, speaking of the slight value of “Arab tradition"
in Egypt, says, “ But little faith is to he placed in the tales of the modern in-
habitants.” The remark is as applicable to Syria as to Egypt.

cf Dent. xxxiv. 3', 2 Chron. xxviii. 15.

i “ Jericho,” says Maundrell, ‘- is at present only a poor, nasty village of the
Arabs.” Lord Lindsay found only one palm tree at Riha, the village above
spoken of; he is inclined to think the ruins ofJericho not in this place, but some
little distance to the west. Dr. Robinson (vol. ii. p. 299) is disposed to place
the ancient site at the opening‘ofthe Wady Kelt, halfan hour south of Ain es-
Sultan. ' '

