CONSTANTINE’S MEASURES. 337

emperors. The city of [Elia appears to have continued
much the same as under the emperor from whom it took its
name, and men in general seem to have forgotten almost en-
tirely its former designation. Church history has preserved
many interesting matters in connection with the bishops and
the Christian body in [Elia or New Jerusalem: for the most
part they appear to have lived in peace and freedom from
severe persecution, and to have been occupied in contending
for the faith against heresy within, and ‘pagan assaults with-
out ; but during the reign of the dark and gloomy Diocletian,
they, too, were called upon to endure the ﬁery trial of their
faith in Christ: this was in the beginning of the fourth cent-
ury. We pass over the details, and turn our attention to
what was done when Constantine the Great became sole
emperor and ruler of the civilized world. Among the earli-
est steps- which he took in favor of Christianity, were those
in relation to the holy sites in Jerusalem. He wrote to
Macarius, the bishop of that see, with reference to the puri-
fying the places desecrated by pagan superstition, and was
especially desirous that the Holy Sepulchre of our Lord
should not only be relieved from everything impure and
offensive, but also adorned and rendered sacred by a magniﬁ-
cent temple to be erected over it. There does not; appear, as
Dr. Robinson and others represent it, any doubt either on
'the part of the bishop and clergy, or of the emperor, that this
spot, covered by a large mound of earth, on the top of which
was Venus’s shrine, marked really and undoubtedly the Holy
Sepulchre of our Lord. “The emperor’s orders were—not
that any-inquiry should be instituted, not that any search
should be made, but simply that the temple (of Venus) should
be levelled with the ground, and the earth carried away.
This was done, and the Sepulchre came to light.” So far as I
can perceive, there is no contradiction between this statement
and that of Eusebius; he represents the emperor to be moved
“by divine inspiration, and prompted by the Saviour Hum
15

