DENSITY AND BITTERNESS on THE WATER. 387

pungent water ; but it was only for a moment; disappointed
and angry, they threw back their heads, and more dispirited
than ever, pursued the way which their masters wished. As
you may see by the map, there is something like a small island
or peninsula marked, before one reaches the mouth of the
Jordan; it is a collection of sand and stones, mingled with
drift wood, brush, &c., encrusted with.salt, probably brought-
down by the river and gradually here collected; it is about
two hundred and ﬁfty feet from the shore. We here im-
dressed and determined to take a bath. I had often heard
that persons would not sink, so dense is the water of the
Dead Sea ;* but I had thought that there might be a little
exaggeration in the statement, and I was curious to test
the matter in my own person. It was literally and exactly
true, all that I had heard: I went into the water; I lay down
on my back ﬂat and powerless; I used not an effort to ‘keep
myself from sinking; and there I lay, about two thirds under
water, and buoyed up in a manner wholly unlike any other
case I had ever met with. In truth I could not sink except
by forcing myself under the water, and in a moment I would
rise rapidly up again! and lay there, a ﬂoating object of life on
the surface of a sea containing naught that lives. Two or
three times I got some drops of the water on my iips‘, and I can
assure you I never felt anything so bitter, nauseous and
stinging as this was ;’r and afterwards when I came out, my
body was covered with a liquid which left a disagreeable,
greasy feeling, impossible to get rid of by the aid of towels
alone.

* “ Tried the relative density of the water of this sea and of the Atlantic, the
letter from 25° N. Lat. and 52" W'. Lon.: distilled water being as l. The water
of the Atlantic was 1.02, and of this sea 1.13. The last dissolved 1-11, the
water of the Atlantic 1-6, and distilled water 5-17 of its weight of salt. The
salt used was a little damp. On leaving the Jordan, we carefully noted the
draught of the boats; with the same loads they drew one inch less water when
aﬂoat upon this sea than in the river.”~Lieutenant Lynch’s " Expedition to

the Dead Sea,” p. 377.
1' Dr. Marcet’s Analysis of the water of the Dead Sea, is as follows: the

