THE GREAT sPHINX, 53

The Pyramid of Mycerinus, or Mencheres, offers little to
interest the visitor, compared with the two larger ones which
overshadow it, and make it appear quite small and insigniﬁ-
cant: its height is considerably less than half that of the
others, though it seems to have been excellently welLbuilt,
and from being cased or covered with the red syenite granite,
to have presented an elegant appearance: its interior hardly
compensates one for the trouble of creeping through the nar-
row entrance, which is almost closed by masses of stone.
ColdVyse found in the interior the sarcophagus of its founder ;-
but unfortunately it was lost at sea, on its way to England:
the mummy-case, or wooden cofﬁn, with the name of the
king, Mencheres or Mycerinus, which is contained within
it, is, however, in the British Museum. We spent only
a. short time in examining this one of the three greater
Pyramids; and gave but a passing look at the multitude
of tombs and mummy pits, and the several smaller Pyra-
mids which have been erected in the immediate vicinity
of those of Cheops and Mycerinus: they are in no wise im-
portant, in themselves. considered, unless perhaps from the
singular desire which seems to have been present with so
many to erect, in this particular locality, mausoleums for
their mortal remains, and to sleep in the midst of the vast
necropolis of royal Memphis.

The Great Sphinx is one of the most striking and interest-
ing monuments 1n the vicinity of the ancient capital of Egypt,
and well deserves its place by the side of the Great Pyramid.
It faces the traveller as he approaches by the route by which
We came, that is, from the east, and though overshadowed
by the Pyramids, not far from which it standsﬁ‘ it wears so
massive and so imposing an appearance, that it may well

* The Sphinx is about 1700 it. due east of the Second Pyramid: and about
1000 it. south—easterly of the S. E. comer of the Great Pyramid. Champollion-
Figeac gives its dimensions as follows: ——Length 128 (1.; circumference of the

head round the forehead, 88 ft. 7 in. ;height from the belly to the top of the
head, 55 {1.9 m.

1

