194. EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

tomb of the Sultan Tulun (whose reign dates A.D. 868—884);
it is railed in; and what little light there is here, comes
principally from above, the ceiling being very lofty. At this
hour, being about the middle of the forenoon, there were very
few persons present; one old man, doubtless a mendicant,
from his looks, lay stretched out at full length, asleep on tho
matting, not far from the pulpit: a number of children were
running about, and playing very noisily ; and several women
seemed to be lounging around, more to gratify their curiosity
than anything else.

Escaping from the importunity of the beggars, and the
cupidity of the door-keeper as well as I could,* I next set out
to visit the mosk of Sultan Hassan, which is said to be, and
justly, I believe, the ﬁnest in Cairo. It is situate just at the
foot of the lofty hill on which the Citadel stands, between the
Roomaylee and the Soog'e’ Sullah. The Cairenes are ex-
ceedingly proud of this mosk, and well they may be, since
it is the only one that I have seen in Cairo which has any
pretensions to what we consider architectural beauty or gran-
deur. It has a high and rather ﬁnely ornamented porch; the
cornice of its lofty walls is rich in decorations; its minaret
is one of the most striking in the whole city, and the arches
of its spacious court cannot fail to int'ereSt every admirer of
architecture. But after all, how far short does it fall of the
sublime conception and execution of an ediﬁce, like hundreds
of Christian churches, in which our Lord and our God is
worshipped and adored, with a pure and holy worship! In
the temples of the true God, we see a grasping alter the pure,

* Thefts are sometimes committed in the weeks; Mr. Lane tells an amu-
sing story which was related to him by a friend :-—“ I went there,” (to the Has-
aneyn Mosk) said he, “to pray; and as I was stooping over the brink of the
meydaah, to perform the ablution, having placed my shoes beside me, and was
saying, ‘I purpose to perform the Divine ordinance of the wudoo,’ somebody
behind me said to himself, ‘I purpose to take away this nice pair of shoes.
01: looking round, I found an old worn-out pair of shoes put in the place of my
own, which were new.”—“ Modem Egyptians,” voL ii. p. 235.

