28 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

help feeling it, will nevertheless hardly bear repeating, or can
scarcely claim to be worth recording. Hence, I leave you to
imagine, if you will, what a. pilgrim from the far 011' land of
‘ the West would naturally and properly feel in these deeply
interesting regions of the East, and particularly when he ﬁrst
is privileged to sail over the broad waters of the Nile, that
mighty and only river of Egypt.

In consequence of the strength of the current, which usu-
ally runs at the rate of nearly three miles an hour, the pro-
gress of a steamboat is necessarily slow and labored; and as
the channel frequently shifts its place, and banks of sand are
deposited in these spots where deep water formerly stood, the
navigation of the Nile is neither very easy nor very safc, for
vessels proceeding at a rapid rate. Not seldom does the ex-
perience of the oldest and. best informed pilot fail him, and it
often happens that boats get aground, and remain some time
in a position, the most annoying possible for a traveller. It
was our lot narrowly to escape the shoals, and after a tedious
and very comfortless passage, to reach the point of destination
at a late hour in the night of the 19th, or rather, early on the
20th inst. The scenery along the river, from Atfeh to Bulak,
a distance of about a hundred and twenty miles, is interest-
ing, more from its peculiarly oriental character, than from
any variety or striking characteristics which it possesses.
The mud huts of the peasantry, the groves of palms, the fer-
tile ﬁelds. of grain at this wintry season, the uniformly de-
graded appearance of the people, combined with their light-
heartedness- and cheerful submission to a state of things
which we should consider intolerable, are all peculiar to the
East, and consequently full of interest to a stranger. One
can hardly fail, too, to be struck with the evident richness of the
country, and its capacity to furnish not only means of sup-
port, but even wealth to its inhabitants, were not the oppres-
sive hand of the despot laid upon everything within his grasp,
and the" curse of monopoly spread over the whole land. As

