208 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

of fraternal aﬂ'ection, by both Mr. and Mrs. Lieder, that I
dare not give utterance to my feelings as I would, lest I be
deemed extravagant, or trespass upon the sanctities of private
life. And yet I cannot refrain from saying something which
shall manifest the exceedingly high respect, esteem, and grat-
itude which I entertain towards Mr. L. and all of those
under his roof, with whom I have had for weeks almost daily
intercourse. Of their labors, in the sphere of their proper
duties, I may not here speak ; not for the reason that I might
not ﬁnd much to 'say, but simply because in 'all'missionary
labors in the East, among its decayed and corrupt Churches,
everything good is the result of time, often a much longer
time than falls to the lot of those who spend their lives in
this portion of the Lord’s vineyard. Nothing, if I may ven-
ture an opinion, can be more fallaeious, than to judge of what
has been, or can be done, by the fruits of rapid growth;
nothing can well be more uncertain—apart, of course, I
mean, from the blessing of God, who alone can give effect
to any labor in His cause—than what a short period might
promise; and nothing, I am certain, can be more unsafe,
than to build an opinion upon single instances or isolated
facts, in missionary labors. For this reason, I know you will
excuse me, ‘if I do not pretend to pronounce upon the mission
of the Church Missionary Society in Egypt, further than to
express my ﬁrm conviction and assurance, that it has been,
and may yet be, still further, the means of great good to the
bodies and souls of thousands in the metropolis of this deeply
interesting land. May God, in his mercy, pour out upon His
ministering servant here, and all connected with him, His
choicest blessings!

I have been led to think the more deeply on these matters,
in consequence, not only of what I have stated in respect to
the bishop of Es-Siout and the Church there, but of some
circumstances and further opportunities of observation, which
have occurred since our return to Cairo. By the kindness of

