146 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

Shishak in the Bible. You will recollect the passage, in
which this expedition is spoken of : “It came to pass, that in
the ﬁfth year of king Rehoboam, Shishak, king of Egypt,
came up against Jerusalem, because they had transgressed
against the Lord, with twelve hundred chariots, and three-
seore thousand horsemen ;* and the people were without
number that came with him out of Egypt; the Lubims,
the Sukkiims, and the Ethiopians. And he took the fenced
cities which pertained to Judah, and came to Jerusalem.”
It having pleased God to Warn the king and princes of the
consequences of their disobedience and sin, they found grace
to repent and humble themselves, so that He did not destroy
them, or pour out His wrath upon Jerusalem, by the hand of
‘ Shishak: nevertheless, says the Lord, by His prophet, they
shall be the servants of the king of Egypt, “that they may
know my service and the service of the kingdoms of the coun-
tries. So Shishak, king of Egypt, came up against Jerusalem,
and took away the treasures of the house of the Lord, and
the treasures of the king’s house; he took all: he carried
away also the shields of gold which Solomon had made”?
This was in the year BC. 971, according to the usual c1110-
nology. On the king’s return to Egypt, various sculptures
were added to the Walls of the temple at Karnak, illustrating
his conquests, and the cities and countries which he had sub-
dued, this of the “kingdom of Judah,” among the rest. Perhaps
you will not be displeased at having this interesting cartouche
as I have copied it from the “Egypte An’cienne” of Cham-
pollion-Figeac, and carefully compared with the original, at
the time of our visit. As to the features and expression of
the face, I will not answer for their exactness; but, although
they differ somewhat from the plate given by Rosselini,‘hr1ﬂhis

* “ We take this opportunity of remarking that the horse was only used 1n
ancient Egypt for warlike purposes, yoked 1n the chariot. The art ofriding the.
horse would appear by the monuments to have been unknown there in early times.
It was probably of Scythian origin. ”—Oshurn’ s “Antiquities qugypt,” p. 2-27.

1' 2 Chron. xii. -—.9

