312 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

about the Mount' of Olives 'and its neighborhood. We pm
the Golden Gate, now closed, and cannot but admire the re.
mains, even yet visible, of this noble city entrance. We see
stuck out of the top of the wall, a part of a round stone pil-
lar, on which, says the story, Mohammed is to sit when the
nations are gathered together for judgment, in the valley of
Jehoshaphat. We soon reach St. Stephen’s gate, and after
a while pass entirely round the north-easterly corner of the
wall, arriving in due time at the Damascus gate, whence we
set out. The whole circuit of the modern walls is 12,978
feet, or nearly two miles and a half. I may also here state,
that Suliman I., the son of Selim I., erected the walls nearly
as they now are, A.H. 948 (=A.D. 1542).

Allow me, in conclusion, to make one or two remarks of a
general nature, in connection with points of some interest-
A most obvious one, as it appears to me, is this, that from the
marked features, in 'general, of the topography of the Holy
City, there is less probability of error or mistake in respect to
them than usually attaches to ancient places. Whatever differ-
ences of opinion there may be in'matters of detail, it is well
nigh impossible to go wrong in regard to the prominent, essen.
tial points; and Ibelievo that no one can visit Jerusalem, and
candidly and fairly use his Bible, without, attaining a moral
certainty, that this is Mount Zion, this Mount Moriah, this the
Tyropoeon, this the valley of J ehoshaphat, this the Mount of
Olives, etc.; for, though such men as Dr. Clarke may, not-
withstanding the privilege of having seen Jerusalem, venture
to'say, that in their opinion, Mount Zion, as we see it now,
was the Hill Acra, the valley of Hinnom was the Tyropoeon,
and the’Hill of Evil Counsel was the true Zion ; and though
an author of the reputation, acuteness and good sense of Mr.
FergussDn, may attempt to unsettle all the received views
of the ablest scholars, travellers and divines, by placing Zion—.-
a “mere montioule of rock”——-north of, and near to Mount
Moriah, by giving a new—I Will not, though, I might say,

‘4

