274 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

salem ; while a third and a fourth, were clearly convineed
that the number. was much less than twenty thousand, esti-v
mating it at the extent as not more than ﬁfteen thousand, of
which less than four thousand were Jews. The truth ’is, no
one knows much about the matter any way ; and at best, we
can only approximate to the actual result. The streets are
never thronged, except during the season when the pilgrims
visit Jerusalem, and not even then does‘ the city become
very much crowded; the bazaars have something of a bus-
tling air, but in them also, you never ﬁnd the crowds of pen:
ple which make it so difﬁcult to thread your way in a city’
like Cairo; audit is undoubtedly and strikingly true, that, in
general, the streets of the Holy City are solitary, and that
you may often walk a long distance without meeting or‘ see-
ing a single'individual. Hence, I am led to infer, that the
population of Jerusalem' cannot be, by any means, as large
as the city is capable of containing; and, perhaps, we shall
not be far out of the way if we suppose that there are ﬁve
thousand Christians, four thousand Jews, and six thousand
Mohammedans, making in all ﬁfteen thousand. Dr. Robin
son, in 1838, deriving his estimate from a calculation made
from the taxable males of the city, gives the population as
follows: Mohammedans, four thousand ﬁve hundred; Jews,
threethousand; Christians, three thousand and ﬁve hundred;
that is, allowing for,possible omissions, inmates of the con-
vents, &c., a total of not more than eleven thousand ﬁve
hundred.* In a matter of this kind, where so much is mere
guess-work, it becomes no one to be very positive; but, with
due deference, I feel tolerably sure that the learned Doctor
has given a number as much too low as others have in an
opposite directionn‘ h

The character and condition of the people depend consider-

* “ Biblical Researches,” vol.:ii. p. 85.
1‘ Mr. Williams, in a valuable note, has collected the various estimates of the
population of modern J erusalem:

