184 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

elevated spots where this same scene, sligl tly varied, is spread
out to View ; the city itself, as we now see it, claims ourrno-
tice on many accounts. In the streets and lanes, it is very
difﬁcult to form any idea of the actual state of the houses in
which people live, or of the strange appearance which they
present when seen from a high position, as ours is; but here,
we look down upon such things as we could not have sup-
posed to exist in a large and populous city, like the metropo-
lis of Egypt.* Observe the air of desolation which seems to
envelop every object; the houses are very generally partly in
ruin, and being built of the dark-colored bricks, formed of
the mud of the Nile, look still less inviting than would other-
wise be the ease. Crowded together, and having few ave-
nues wide enough to be distinguished, were it not for the re-
lief which the minarets afford to the scene, the dwellings of
the people would in general strike‘one as little better than
those in the villages; in short, Cairo looks like acity in ruins,
and the reality is probably not very far behind the appearance.

Before returning to our hotel, let us go into the bazaars,
which are in many respects the most interesting objects in
the city, and will well repay us for an hour or two spent in
examining them. Most of the streets, especially the larger
ones, have a row of shops on either side, and, as you will ob-
serve, certain portions of the city are devoted to some par-
ticular branch of trade or manufactures: thus, there is the

‘* “ The modern Egyptian metropolis is now called ‘Masr;’ more properly
'Misr;' but was formerlynamed‘El—Kahireh;” whence Europeans have formed
the name of Cairo. It is situated at the entrance ofthe valley of Upper Egypt,
midway between the Nile and the eastern mountain range of Mukattam. Be-
tween it and the river, there intervenes a tract of land, for the most part culti-
vated, which in the northern parts, (where the port of Bdlak is situated) is more
than a mile in width, and at the southern part, less than halfa mile wide.- The
metropolis occupies a space equal to about three square miles; and its popula-
tion is about %0,000. It is surrounded by a wall, the gates of which are shut
at night, and is commanded by a large citadel, situated at an angle of the town,
near a point ofthe mountain. The streets are unpaved; and most of them are

narrow and irregular: they might more properly be called lanes.”—Lane’s
"Illadzm Egyptians,” vol. i. p. 5.

