oon’s DEALINGS W'ITII THE NEWS. 253

And He promised, that if they served Him with their whole
hearts, and obeyed His commands, He Would drive out all
before them, and make their arms victorious on every occa-
sion. While the great captain Joshua lived, “Israel served
the Lord,” and Were blessed in theinmany and sharp contests
with the idolatrous inhabitants of the land promised of old
to the seed of Abraham; yet, not even then, were they per-
fectly minded to worship and obey God only: and so their
success was not complete, and in various portions of the land
the former inhabitants remained, tributai'y, it is true, but
continual snares unto the chosen people. When that gene-
ration which came in with Joshua, and had known all
the works of the Lord, that He had done for Israel, had
passed away, “there arose another generation after them,
which knew not the LORD, nor yet the works which He had
done for Israel ;”* these forspok the Lord, and bowed them-
selves down to the idols of the people round about them;
so that wrath went out against them; their arms were
powerless, their strength was gone, and the hand of the
oppressor lay heavily upon them. The bitter cup of ad-
versity, which they often drained to the very dregs, al-
most always brought them back again to their senses, and
made them feel most keenly the enormity of their guilt
against God their Saviour; and so they cried unto Him, out
of the depth of their misery, and He heard them, and gave
them relief. Many a time was this done : many a time did
they rebel: their sins, as a people, brought punishment: their
repentance and profession of amendment, obtained for them
relief, at the hands of Him, who always remembered His
covenant with Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. And such, in
brief, is their whole history: they could not drive out the
Canaanites, because of their own unbelief and rebellion; and

. . . thou shalt consume all the people which the LORD thy God shall deliver
thee; thine eye shall have no pity upon them.”—Deut. vii. 1—3; 16.
’ Judges ii. 10.

