THE VIEW FROM Timon. 437

Palestine. I would that I possessed the power of graphic de-
scription, that I might tell you of what we saw from the sum-
mit of this noble mount, and how deeply the beauty and
splendor of the scene are written in our choicest recollec-.
tions. How grandly loomed up in the far distance, to the
north, the snow-crowned Jebel es-Sheikh, the Hermon of
Scripture! How picturesque appeared the hills and moun-
tains to the north-east and the east, beyond and on this side
the silvery Jordan, which springs out of their very bosom!
How lovely seemed that lake, of all others most interesting
to the Christian’s heart, the Lake of Tiberias, a part of which,
we could» plainly see! How noble, toward the south, looked
the valley of the Jordan, Gilead, Gilboa, the Little Hermon,
and the charming valcs between! But how surpassingly
beautiful, which I cannot ﬁnd words rightly to express, was
the scene in the west, as, at this commanding elevation, some
ﬁfteen hundred feet above the plain,* we looked down upon
Esdraelon, in all its glory and magniﬁcent verdure, its extent,
its fertility, its loveliness, its surrounding hills, its streams
and rivulets, its river, the Kishon, and its many, many points
of attractiveness! Believe me, I stood as it were entranced
on the steep brow of Tabor, and beheld this scene with emo-
tions too deep for utterance.

, It was a deeply-interesting hour which we spent on the
summit of Tabor, in reﬂecting upon the scene of our Lord’s
transﬁguration, occurring, as it did, according to early tradi-
tion, on this very mountain. We felt all the force of, the ob-
jections urged by Dr. 'Robinson and others against this
locality, on the score of its having been fortiﬁed, and more or
less covered with buildings and dwellings of various sorts;
and yet, though by no means strenuous on the point, I felt
that the transﬁguration might have taken place on one of the

_ * Some authorities give the height of Tabor as 3000 11.; Dr. Wilson thinks
it less than 1000 it, in which he agrees with Dr. Robinson: the height given in
die textagrees nearly with‘Schubei-t’s barometrical measurement of Tabor.

