222 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

of the “ Englishwoman in Egypt,”) and her two sons, noble
and interesting youths as they are. But I will not presume
to enlarge upon a point like this; it may sufﬁce to mention,
in this place, that Mr. Lane’s great work, the Arabic and
English Lexicon, is still unﬁnished, and it will be 'probab‘fy
two years before it can be looked for from the press.‘ His
nephew, Mr. Reginald Stuart Poole, bids fair to be among
the ﬁrst Egyptologer’s of the present age, a fact which I am
the more gratiﬁed at communicating from knowing, as I do,
his conscientious and ﬁrm convictions of ‘the truth and Divine
authority of Holy Scripture. May all under that roof be
long spared to discharge rightly the high and holy duties of
their rank and calling!

And now, my dear 8., the hour of our departure from
Cairo draws nigh. We have looked, for the last time, upon
many of the scenes of which I have so feebly spoken in for-
mer letters; we have made all our arrangements, got om
camels and our multifarious luggage in readiness, bade
adieu to our friends, and to-morrow, if God will, we set out
for the Holy Land. As, on this last evening of our stay-in
Cairo, I look back upon what we have'seen, and call to mind
what we have thought, I cannot but recollect good old Ful-
ler’s energetic and Wise words: ,“The sins of the Eastern
countries, and chieﬂy their damnable h‘eresies, hastened God’s
judgments upon them. In these Western parts, heresies,
like an angle, caught single persons, which in Asia, like a
drag-net, took whole provinces.”* I feel, too, that there is
not much hope at present for Egypt, so far as our eye can
see into the dim, unknown future. “There is a gleam in
the sky, as if the light of civilization were about torise’, but,
like the false dawn in India, it will fade away, and deeper
darkness will succeed. Yet the true dawn will come at last,
and brighten into perfect day; and then, and not till then,
will Egypt, Christian Egypt, rise from the dust, and resume

