RUINS AT surrou. 409

and fields of grain, and rich with the vine, the ﬁg, the pome-
granate, the olive, and other productions of nature’s bounty,
appeared very attractive, and not unlike what we may
imagine them to have been in the days when Moses wrote
of the promised land :—-“The land whither thou goest in to
possess it, is not as the land of Egypt from whence ye came
out, Where thou sowedst thy seed, and wateredst it with thy
foot, as a garden of herbs; but the land whither ye go to
possess it is a land of hills and valleys, and drinketh 'water
of the rain of heaven; a land which the LORD thy God car-
eth for; the eyes of the LORD thy God are always upon it,
from the beginning of the year even unto the end of the
year.”* Continuing our onward progress, almost due north,
we had the mountains of Ephraim a little way to the left,
and reached Sinjil at eleven. Traversing a ﬁne broad valley
between ,hills of stony, barren summits, at a quarter past
twelve we arrived at Khan Lubban. The Khan itself is in
ruins; but in the vicinity is a ﬁne fountain of water; and
to the north-west on a hilly slope is the village of Lubban.
A little to the right is the deserted site of Shiloh, which, as
says a recent traveller, is “marked by a ruinous musk,
overhung by a lofty and noble tree. The utter desolation of
the scene was startling. A rocky hill, strewn with prostrate
Walls and foundations, seemed a burrow for jackals and a
nest for scorpions; in a wild and sterile valley below yawned
the oriﬁces of a few vacant tombs; and at a short distance
were the fast mouldering vestiges of a Byzantine church,
its wall and gate overrun with foliage and a few prostrate
columns half buried in herbage. Not a human dwelling was
in sight.” A most sad scene of desolation indeed, when
one remembers the many incidents connected with Shiloh in
the Old Testament history; for here the ark and the taber-
nacle were; near to this place the daughters of Shiloh came
out to dance in dances, and were many of them carried off

‘ Deut. xi. 10-12.
18

