BUILDERS OF THE PYRAMIDS. 63

Israelites were the persons employed in building the Pyramids,
the Jews themselves at a later period believed, and it is a sup?
position to which one is naturally led by thevery terms in which
their bondage is described in Scripture.” “The truth is, doubt-
less, that the Pyramids were raised by the labor of the Israelites
in the time of their oppression: butin the national version of the
story, the oppressed became the oppressors; the Israelites, under
the name of Hyksos, were represented as a godless race of shep-
herds, who caused these vast monuments of their tyranny to be
reared by the labor of the Egyptians.” The same author
thinks, that the name Suphz's or Saophis, is, in reality, the
very name Joseph ; and that when his memory became odious
to the Egyptians, they set him forth as “an invading tyrant,
at the head of a horde of godless shepherds (Salatis), and
withal, as the builder of the Great Pyramid (Suphis or Che-
ops).”* I do not know how these sentiments may strike
your mind, or whether you will be able to see any force in
the arguments used, to support the opinion of the Jews’ con-
nection With the erection of the Pyramids: for my own part,
I cannot accede to this view, for several reasons, but princi-
pally the deﬁciency of everything like proof in its support.
I am much disposed to prefer the more commonly adopted
view, that the Pyramids were erected by the Shepherd Kings,
during the time of their rule in Egypt. This would accord
very well with the great antiquity of these vast monuments,
and would serve, in some measure, at least, to explain the
reason why “ every shepherd is an abomination unto the Egyp-
tians.”1' If it be true, as is generally agreed at the present
day, that Egypt was overrun by a foreign tribe, known in
history as the Hyksos or Shepherd Kings; and if it be true
that they established their power, maintained their supremacy
for some hundreds of years, (Dr. Hales says 260 years,) and
treated their conquered subjects with severity amounting to
actual tyranny, the supposition does not, certainly, seem im-

0' Browne’s “ Ordo chlomm," pp. 587, 594, 595. 1' Gen. xlvi. 34.

