256 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

hundred years old, and a little further, may be seen ruins of
a former city or town. But little can be traced of the foun.
dation walls, yet the remains appear to be of an early period.
Some distance to the left, on a hill, is Yasﬁr, supposed to be
the Hazor of Scripture (Josh. xv. 25). Saphir, you may rec-
ollect, is spoken of by the prophet :—

" Pass ye away, thou inhabitant of Saphir, having thy shame naked:
The inhabitant of Zaanan came not forth
In the mourning of Beth-ezel; he shall receive ofyou his standing.“

Eusebius and Jerome place it below Eleutheropolis and
Ashkelon, which would coincide very well with the position
of Es-Sawaﬁr; its ruins beyond, are not probably those of
the ancient town. The people of the villages, and in the
ﬁelds, looked at us with curiosity, and some degree of sullen-
ness, but they did not at all molest us, or refuse to answer
any questions which we chose to ask; in general, too, I was
a little surprised at the light color of the inhabitants, who,
with the exception of the effect of the sun upon those exposed
in the ﬁelds, appeared to me as of much the same complexion
as most of the people of our own country. This applies more
particularly to the younger women and children, many of
whom, I noticed, had very beautiful, sparkling, black eyes,
and regular features, not infrequently of classic mould.

At half-past three, P.M., we passed through a village named
Kastineh, situate on a hilly slope, with a pond of water
near by. In most respects, the villages along the road wear
the same aspect of degradation, and, as we should esteem it,
of misery, as those in Egypt, being merely collections of huts
or hovels, without order or arrangement, and sadly lacking in
neatness and comfort, both externally and internally; there
is, however, one striking difference between the Syrian and
Egyptian towns and villages. In Egypt, the natives live in
mud huts, half the time or more, without covering of any

* Micah, i. 11.

