442 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LANn

and when, on being awaked by His terriﬁed disciples, Hr
arose and rebuked the wind and the sea, and there was a
great calm ; here, He gave the miraculous draught of ﬁshes;
and here, after His resurrection, He showed Himself on the
shore, ate and drank with His disciples, and delivered those
touching charges unto Peter, and through him to the rest of
.the Apostles, and to the ministry of His Church in all ages.
Ah, how different now the scene! the villages and towns on
the borders of this lake, the activity and bustle on its shores,
the numerous boats and vessels on its waters, are no more ;
and now silence and deadness brood over everything: not a
solitary sail, not a boat of any description did we see; and
all business, all trade and commerce, have ceased utterly.
Most solemn seemed the words of our Lord, as we looked
upon the present aspect of this beautiful lake and the few,
scant ruins of the ﬂourishing villages and cities which once
here existed :—“ Then began He to upbraid the cities wherein
most of His mighty works were done, because they repented
not: woe unto thee, Chorazin! woe unto thee, Bethsaida!
for if the mighty works which were done in you had been
done in Tyre and Sidon, they would have repented long ago
in sackcloth and ashes. ButI say unto you, It shall be more
tolerable for Tyre and Sidon at the day of judgment than for
you. And thou, Capernaum, which art exalted to heaven,
shalt be brought down to hell : for if the mighty works which
have been done in thee, had been done in Sodom, it would
have remained until this day.”* Is it not a startling consid~
eration for Christian nations and people that the privileges
which they enjoy, and, which they despise and use not, shall
at the day of judgment, stand in array against them; and
because they have not repented and turned away from their
sins, when God has called them by His Holy Word and
His ministering servants, their lot and condition in the last
day shall be more terrible than that of the guilty cities of

" M an. xi. 20-24.

