RUINS OF THE ANCIENT CATHEDRAL. 469

the fourth century. Unhappily, it is now one mass of
ruins, having only a small portion of the eastern end, or cir-,
cular chancel recess remaining, and having besides, within
the enclosure once covered by the church, some huts and.
sheds of peasantry and pieces of broken columns and stones,
mixed up with trees, shrubs and piles of rubbish. I-spent
some little time in examining these ruins, and was much im-
pressed with the change which time has wrought in everything
connected with Tyre, even in the church devoted to the worship
and service of God our Saviour: it was curious too, to see
lying prostrate amid the ruins two immense columns of Sye-
nite granite, and to speculate upon their possible connection
with either the grand temple or church near by, or with some
one. of the gorgeous ediﬁces which once adorned this great
city. I dare not pretend to affirm positively that the ruins
of a church which we visited arc of so early at date as the,
fourth century; yet as there is nothing impossible or improb-
able in the supposition that they may date thus early, I
prefer to think that they are indeed the remains of that splen-
did cathedral which was built by Paulinus, bishop of Tyre,‘
and honored by the presence of Eusebius, who preached the_
consecration sermon. If you will turn to the tenth book of
the author’s Ecclesiastical History, you will ﬁnd in the fourth,
chapter the “ Panegyric on the Splendor of our Affairs,”

 

'7. The Naos or Nave of the Church.
8. Porticoes for the men, with Galleries above for the women.
9. Ambo or Reading Desk, where the Holy Gospels were read.
10. Place of the Faithful and the Consistentes.
11. Place for the Prostrators (twain-raw“), or those who knelt or prostrated
themselves to receive the Bishop’s blessing.
12. Railings, with the (bpa'iul mum, or Gate of Entrance into the Nave: near by
was the place ofthe hearers. '
13.- KnAu/itﬂpa, the baptisterium or font.
l4. Narthex, prcnaos or antevtenrple:
. 15. Place of the Catechumens.
16. Place of the Mourners. ’
17. Great Porch or Vestibulc in front of the Church proper, and opento the sky;

