DESCRIPTION OF A COPTIC CHURCH. 163

In the morning, accompanied by the other gentlemen in
the “Ibis,” I called again on the bishop, and presentedthe
elegant volume containing the Gospels, as before stated.
He thanked me for it, but not very heartily, and immediately
after asked if I had not some books in Arabic to give him !
He talked of sending us a sheep, but that was mere compli-
ment, and meant nothing, since on our thanking him nothing.
turther was said or done in the matter; we had to return the
compliment, however, by sending something from the boat,
which was done, and was, We learned, very acceptable. The
usual formalities of coffee handed, 650., were gone through
with, and some general conversation carried on which it is not
worth while to record; but as I was curious to see a Coptic
church, the bishop was kind enough to offer to show me the
principal one in the city, and rose to lead the way.

The church was near at hand: a few turnings through
narrow passages and we entered the door of a building in no
wise to be distinguished from others externally, and with
hardly anything which we should consider meet and proper
for the temple of the Lord our God. Let me try in few
,words to, give you ,an idea of a Coptic church. The entire
area devoted to the church was large, and appeared to. me
nearly square; the walls Were plain, and the ceiling, whence
the'light was obtained, was some forty feet high. There are
three divisions of the space thus appropriated, and they do not
differ much in extent; the ﬁrst portion is for the congregation
in general, and is separated from the adjoining space by a
partition of open wood work about ten feet high; the
second compartment is appropriated to the priests, who read
the lessons, &c., to their assistants'in performing divine ser-
vice, and to some of the higher classes of the members of the
church; the third portion, which is the smallest, is screened
from the rest of the church by a partition of rather elaborate
inlaid work, having small openings or holes at intervals per-
haps a foot in diameter, and a door usually covered by a cur-

