244 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

boundary of Egypt, on the side of Syriaﬁ“ From this point,
we wrote two or three short letters, and put them in charge
of an Arab of the party, who wanted to go back to Cairo.
He was to have four dollars paid him at the Consulate, should
he deliver our letters safely. I have wondered many a time
since, how the poor fellow has got along, and whether he has
managed to evade the quarantine and the Bedawin of the
desert. I fear the fate of our mementoes of the wilderness is
very uncertain.

As it was an object to reach Gaza as soon as we could, in
order to save all that was possible of the stupid quarantine,
there imposed, we made a great effort on the 29th; we got
up at two, A.M., and were off before four. At :1 quarter
before eight, we saw the tomb of Sheikh J uidch, from which
our boy brought some dust, and sprinkled the camels with,
to preserve and bless them. A tax gatherer came upon us
again, and was disposed to give us some trouble ; but we paid
him and sent him off. The appearance of the country was
certainly better as a whole, and we had an opportunity to
notice the primitive mode of ploughing among the Bedawin ,'
a rope is passed over the camel’s hump, and being attached to
the plough, an Arab walks behind and guides the machine.
It was intensely hot between nine in the morning and one,
RM. At eleven, A.M., we came to Refah, the ancient
Raphz'a, which is now only a mound of ruins, covered with
grass; two pillars of gray granite are still standing, and some
are lying about; the Arabs call the deep well here, Solo-
mon’s, but why, I did not learn. At one, P.M., we arrived
at Khan Yunus, (Jonas’s Inn), the ancient Yenisus, a neat
town, if so I may speak of any village with mud huts, and
the peculiar habits of Eastern people. A soldier stopped us

* At the great feast made by Solomon, at the dedication of the temple, all
‘lsrael were assembled, “a very great congregation, from ‘the entering in of
Hnmath unto the river of Egypt.” Hamath is situate far to the north, on the
road to Aleppo, in latitude 35° l5’.—See 2 Chron. vii. 8; Josh. xiii. 5.

