322 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

and executed in bad taste.” The former, or original ediﬁce,
was in the Gothic style, and, so far as one can judge, must
have been much more impressive than the present building.
We mount a few low steps to the marble platform before the
entrance; and, unattended, we enter a small, dimly-lighted
room, which serves as an ante-chapel to the sepulehre itself.
Here is shown the stone on which the angels sat who an-
nounced to .the women the wondrous news of the resurrection
of that Lord and Saviour whose body they had come to anoint
with sweet spices: A few steps further, stooping somewhat,
and passing through a low narrow portal, and we are alone
in the inner sanctuary, Where thousands and tens of thou-
sands have knelt, and wept, and prostrated themselves, in full
faith that this is the very site of our Master’s burial-place.
Lamps of gold and silver, ever burning, afford light to the
narrow chapel where we are, and the air is kept redolent
with; perfumes night and day. We see not the sepulehre as
it Was originally, for then it was hewn out of a rock, and the
Apostles, when they came to see, on the report of Mary Mag-
dalene that the body was taken away, stooped down and
looked into the low door of entrance before they went in.
Now, however, the spot which is shown us as that of the holy
resting-place, is a sort of sarcophagus of white marble, which
surrounds and conceals from the eye everything in relation to
the tomb, and is about two feet above the level of the ﬂoor;
thus depriving this sacred spot of the evidence which properly
belongs to it, and throwing an air of doubt and suspicion over
the whole subject. How often do we ﬁnd occasion, in visit-
ing sacred localities, to deplore the steps taken by the piety
and zeal of other ages, when it was sought to dignify holy
spots by heaping upon them ornaments and decorations ut-
terly out of place, and in the worst possible taste! How,
truly do we join in the poet’s touching plaint:

“ Oh ! for that garden in its simpler guise,
Where she the earliest of His mourners came,—

