PREPARATION FOR. THE DESERT. 229

across the desert. We had nine camels, ﬁve of which were
used for luggage and the multifarious provision necessary for
a journey of this kind; our friends and fellow-pilgrims had
eight, and were provided in much the same manner with our-
selves, with dragoman, cook, tent, canteens, &c. Beside
our own forces, we had a volunteer who kept us company
with his dromedary, and at night numbers of pilgrims, from
India by way of Mecca, took up their quarters in our vicinity,
feeling a degree of safety in being near to Franks in the
desert. All together, we numbered four gentlemen, two
dragomans, two cooks, eight Arabs and a boy to lead and at-
tend to the camels; and as you may suppose, we presented a
rather imposing and formidable appearance, as our long train
wound its devious way through the waste and dreary wilder-
ness of Shur. As desert life has some points of interest as
well as novelty, I presume you will like to have such idea
as I may be able to give of it in brief compass, and also, to
know something of the route by which we have entered the
Holy Land.

The most striking feature in this sort of life, is certainly
the peculiar mode of travelling which one has to undergo on
a camel’s back. This animal, which seems to have been ﬁtted
in every respect by nature for the uses to which it is applied,
is variously esteemed by different persons. Some speak of
its “gentle and womanish ways” and the love which the trav-
eller soon learns to feel for its companionship ; others term it
a heavy, stupid creature, constantly complaining, and possess-
ing no sensibility or emotions of any sort worth noticing ;*

" Kinglake, the author of“ Eothen," with more of fancy than trulh, speaks
in this style ofthis invaluable animal in the desert: “ The camel kneels to re-
ceive her load, and for a while she will allow the packing to go on With silent
resignation, but when she begins to suspect that her master is putting more
than a just burthen upon her poor hump, she turns round her supple neck, and
looks sadly upon the increasing load, and then gently remonstrates against the
wrong with the sigh of a patient wife; if sighs will not move you, she can
weep; you soon learn to pity, and soon to love her, for the sake of her gentle
and womanish ways." (P. 136.) Dr. Robinson talks in a much more practical

