DESOLATE CONDITION OF THE COLossr. 129

erous chalcedonies, and here and there covered with black and
red oxide of iron :’ ” we can hardly suppose that they left
themselves open to detection by any ordinary means; and if
they kept the stone from which the sound was made to issue
concealed in the lap of the statue, no ordinary observer could
possibly discover by what means the priests rendered the
colossus vocal.

In speaking of the Colossi, as I .have done, it will, of course,
be understood that they have little or none of their former
beauty and grandeur remaining. Most probably it was the
Persian conqueror who broke down and destroyed the upper
part of the Vocal Memnon, though Strabo was told that a
shock of an earthquake did this damage. Its appearance is
now much inferior to that of the other, defaced and mutilated
as that is, since the restorer of the upper part, whoever it
may have been, has piled up ﬁve layers of sandstone, which
form the body, head, and upper part of the arms, but have
nothing of the ﬁnish and workmanship of the rest of the
statue. Doubtless it once wore the same semblance of massive
elegance, if the term may be allowed, which even, now can
be detected in the other colossus, where the head-dress is
beautifully wrought, and which has its shoulders and back
comparatively quite uninjured; but no words can express too
strongly their present desolate, disﬁgured and ruinous condi-
tion. You will also bear in mind, that though we use the
name of Memnon in connection with this colossus, it has really
no more to do with that rather doubtful personage than the
obelisk: at Alexandria have with Cleopatra, by whose name
they are commonly called. In reality, these statues were
erected by Amunoph III., B.C. 1430, or, according to Os-
burn, B.C. 1687, who was supposed also to bear the name of
Phamenoth; and we owe the title which the vocal statue has
attained to a blunder of the Romans, who were noted for their
contemptuous treatment of subjects which did not particu-

larly interest them or minister to their national pride. The
6*

