308 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

built tower, which Dr. Robinson supposes to be the tower ﬂ
Hippicus; but Mr. Williams controverts this view, and}
think successfully. On our right, you see the valley of G4“
hon, as it has been termed, and not far off the remarkable
excavation, marked on the maps as the lower pool of Gihon‘,"
it is now quite dry and useless, but in the earlier days at
Jerusalem’s prosperity, it, and the one farther up the valley;
must have been important to the comfort and refreshment of
the city. The view here is like what may be seen, alas;
nearly everywhere in the neighborhood of Jerusalem, produQ
cing upon the mind a deep feeling of sadness" and sorrow, for
the degraded and unhappy condition of the city of David.
The soil appears, barren and unfruitful; here and there are a
few trees and some terraced spots under cultivation; but
mostly all is stony, dry, and yielding little or no increaSe.
In a few minutes we come to the corner of the wall which
turns towards the east, crossing the crown of Mount Zion.
Here in this vicinity are the cemeteries of the Christians in
Jerusalem, as well as that not long ago purchased by the
American mission, as the resting place of their dead. From
this point, we will diverge from the wall, and include in our
Walk the valley of Hinnom, and some points of interest near
at hand.

You will notice, as we proceed, what is not very clear on
the map, how rugged and steep are the southerly sides and
slopes of Mount Zion; and-when, after a while, we ﬁnd our-a
selves in the gorge of the hills, the Hill of Evil Counsel on‘
the one hand, and Zion on the other, with the lovely vale of
Hinnom stretching out before us, we cannot but give ourselvEs
to the recollections of bygone days, and the sober and chast-
ening reflections which these localities must ever produce.
The idolatrous monarchs of Judah here dishonored and dear
spised the Lord in worshipping stocks and stones, and here
caused His ﬁerce anger to burn against the wickedness of His
people. Ahaz “made molten images for Baalim : moreover he

