162 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

any clear information; he said that there were two or three
in the city, and about six thousand Coptic Christians; but I
imagine that no great reliance can be placed upon the num-
ber of Christians under a state of things like that in Egypt,
where it is impossible to tell what the population amounts to,
since even the absolute power of Mohammed Ali did not suf-
ﬁce to obtain a census of the people. As a ﬁnishing speech,
the bishop asked if I had not something to give for the Coptic
Church, and indeed on several occasions he pressed the matter
in a way which we should think anything but polite or
proper to a stranger or brother clergyman. Antonio was
quite unwilling to tell me exactly the terms of this and other
requests, but I am sure they were plain enough, and were I
disposed to condemn indiscriminately, would aﬂ'ord ground
for the charge of that mercenary and selﬁsh spirit which is
usually afﬁxed to the name of Copt in Egypt. As it was
getting late, I assured the bishop that I would have the pleas-
ure of seeing him in the morning, and of bringing with me
the present which Mr. Lieder had kindly intrusted to my
care, and an appointment was made for “three o’clock,” i. e.
between eight and nine, A. M., according to our mode of
reckoning time. A gentle pressure of the hand, some words
of blessing on his part, and the motions usual in the East'at
meeting and parting, when the hand is put to the heart or
breast, and to the forehead, with an inclination towards the
person saluted, and my visit was concluded. As I rode back
to the boat, and rested for some little time on the bank, gaz-
ing at the lovely scene, the beautiful lines of Kirke \Vhito
came into my thoughts, and I repeated them with more than
ordinary enthusiasm :

“ How beautiful upon the element
The Egyptian moonlight sleeps!
The Arab on the bank hath pitched his tent;
The light wave dances, sparkling o’er the deeps,
The tall reeds whisper in the gale,
And o’er the distant tide moves slow the silent sail."

