128 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

Wilkinson states, is mentioned in some papyri found at
Thebes, and which led to the river opposite Luxor, with
which it communicated by means of a ferry. By the grad-
ual rise of the land, the dramas is covered with alluvial de-
posit to the depth of about seven feet, and of course a large
part of the pedestal on which the Colossi stand is below the
present surface of the ground: this is to be taken into ac-
count in estimating their height and vast proportions.* As
we approached them, in the distance they did not appear to
be so lofty and imposing as they really are; and even when
we stood at the side of the pedestal, climbed up upon it, and
stood between the legs of the sitting ﬁgure, and looked up to
the knees, nearly ﬁfteen feet above our heads, we could hardly
realize their full size: it was a greater amusement to us to
see if we could catch any idea of the sound which was heard
in olden times. We struck the stone in various places, but to
no satisfaction, and we regretted that we had not the means
of getting up to the lap of the statue, where, Wilkinson states,
“is a stone which, on being struck, emits a metallic sound,
that might still be made use of to deceive a visitor who was
predisposed to believe its powers.” Possibly all this was well
studied out beforehand by the priests, for the stone of which
the Colossi are constructed is, according to the same author-
ity, to which I am so often indebted, “a coarse, hard grit-
stone, ‘spotted,’ according to Tzetzes’ expression, ‘with num-

* The height of either Colossus is 47 it, or 53 above the plain, with the pe.
destal,which, inw buried from C it. 10 in. to‘7 it. below the surface, completes to
its base a total or 60. They measure about 18 ft. 3 in. across the shoulders ; 16
ft. 6 from the top ofthe shoulder to the elbow; 10 it. 6 from the top of the head
to the shoulder; 17 it. 9 from the elbow to the ﬁnger’s end; and 19 ft. 8 from
the knee to the plant of the foot. The thrones are ornamented with ﬁgures of
the god Nilus who holding the stalks oftwo plants peculiar to the river, is en-
gaged in building up a pedestal or table, surmounted by the name of the Egyp«
tian monarcli~a symbolic group, indicating his dominion over the upper and
lower countries. Aline of hieroglyphics extends perpendicularly down the back,
from the shoulder to the pedestal, containing the name of the Pharaoh they rep-
resent.

4

