PLACE OF THE ASCENSION. 297

them out as far as to Bethany, and‘He lifted up His hands
and blessed them. And it came to pass, while He blessed
them, He was parted from them, and carried up into hea-
ven.” “And when He had spoken these things, while they
beheld, He was taken up, and a cloud received Him out of
their sight. . . . . Then returned they unto Jerusalem from
the Mount called Olivet, which is from Jerusalem a Sabbath
day’s journey.“g Now, in the ﬁrst place, it is plain that
these passages must be in harmony one with the other, and it
will be wrong to press either so as to do away with the force of
the other. No doubt, our Lord led His disciples out as far as
to Bethany '; equally certain is it, that when He was taken
up, His disciples returned from the Mount of Olives to the
Holy City, from which they were distant only a Sabbath
day’s journey. Hence, we are reduced to this point, either
to suppose that by the word “ Bethany” is not meant the vil-
lage on the eastern slope of the Mount, and ﬁfteen stadia
from Jerusalem, but the district or vicinity of the village,
which it is thought by good authorities extended even to the
summit of the Mount, where the Holy City is in full view;1'
or, to suppose that a Sabbath day’s journey was not, What
the best writers agree that it was, seven or eight furlongs,
,but ﬁfteen, and that there is no force or pertinency in the
expressions in the Acts, “ then returned they unto J erusaleni
from the .Mount called Olivet,”-—-from that part of it which
was a mile distant from the city, and not nearly two miles,
as the village of Bethany is. The former supposition apl
pears to me, the only one by which the apparent discrepancy
can be reconciled; and when we add to this View the consid»

‘ Luke xxiv. 50, 51 ; Acts i. 9, 12.

1’ The passages in St. Mark (xi. 1), and St. Luke (xix. 29), deserve especial
notice in this connection f‘“ and when they came nigh to Jerusalem, unto
Bethphage and Bethany, at the Mount of Olives, He sendeth forth" 666., im-
plying clenrly, as it seems to me, that Bethphage and Bethany are names ap-
plied to districts, or portions of some extent, on the sides of the Mount of Olives.

13*

