THE VALLEY OF THE JORDAN. 389

grass groweth therein, like the overthrow of Sodom arm Go-
morrah; Admah and Zeboim, which the Lord overthrew in
His anger, and in His wrath.”* We had read the statements
and opinions of travellers, and beheld much to conﬁrm, much
to refute their various speculations; and at the time, we in-
dulged in some of our own, which are not—me judice—WUrth
recording. But, in truth, as a pious traveller a few years ago
has well said, “notwithstanding all our examinations, and
all our speculations, a veil of awful mystery overhangs this
dread locality. It is at once a grave and a monument; a grave
in which slumbers the thousands whose daring ungodliness
cut them off from mercy—a grave Whose chambers lead down
to hell. It is a monument, on every hair-breadth of which is
recorded in characters of ﬁery desolation, the irresistible ter-
rors of a just—a tempted—an avenging God. How astound-
ing will be the blast of the archangel’s trump, when olanging
amidst those bleak and barren rocks, and borne like a spell
over the surface of those stagnant waters! when the resur-
rection power of the Lord Jesus shall call up into second life
for ﬁnal judgment, those objects of Almighty wrath, and lay
bare the gloomy secret at which we surmise and shudder l”t

At two o’clock we left the Dead Sea, and rode as briskly as
we could ever the salt-encrusted and sandy plain, intersected
with slimy bogs. On either hand of the valley of the Jordan,
were ranges of high hills or mountains ; the one a continuation
of the mountains of Moab, which rise aloft on the east of the sea,
and the other a part of the cluster or collection of hills which
bound the valley on the west, and stretch away northward as
far as the ‘eye can reach. Our point of destination was the usual
bathing-place of the pilgrims who come every year in great num-
bers and from all countries, to wash themselves in that river
Where our Lord was baptized by John the Baptist. Two or
three times we came near the banks of the Jordan, which are

" Dent. xxix. 23.
1' Rev. George Fisk’s “111er of the Holy Land," p. 311.

