NEBY MUSA on THE ARABS. 383

he carried him to an inn; and not content with all this, both
took care of him and gave the host money to discharge the
expenses of his cure and restoration. Now, says our Lord,
with these facts before you, and with these instances of what
men have done under the circumstances just narrated, let me
ask you, which of these three persons, the priest, thc Levite,
or the Samaritan, dost thou think was the neighbor of this
poor man that fell among the thieves ? He could not but an-
swer as he did; undoubtedly, it was he that showed mercy
and compassion upon the man. “Then,” said Jesus unto
him, “go, and do thou likewise ;” and even though it be a
Samaritan, an enemy whom thou hatest or who hates thee, deal
mercifully and tenderly with him, and no longer conﬁne thy
sympathies or thy kindnesses to thy friends, or relatives, or
countrymen, or fellow-believers in the Law and the Prophets.
The lesson was perfect, and conveyed in a manner which He
only knew how to do. The lawyer, we may well believe,
went away a humbled, if not a better man.

‘But I must hasten on : at ten o’clock, from the top of one
of the hills over which the road winds, we caught sight, for
the first time, of the Dead Sea. Apparently it was very
near, and in a direct line the journey would not have been
long; but so deceptive are all calculations of distance in a
region like this, where the road bends and turns with in-
numerable windings, and so slow is necessarily the progress
of the traveller, that we were still nearly three hours distant
from the sea; a circumstance which we had occasion to feel
very acutely, while making our toilsome progress under a
scorching mid-day sun. The road which we had chosen,
passed by the far-famed tomb of the great lawgiver of Israel:
it is a large and very sacred ediﬁce, surrounded by high, solid
walls, and adorned with a minaret, and is entitled by the
Arabs, Neby Muse; here, as they say, in contradiction to
the Scripture, the prophet Moses was buried. It is certainly
much more convenient to have his tomb on this side of the

