90 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

endeavor to speak intelligibly and accurately of matters,
which, I trust, will not be deemed unworthy your attention.

The island of Philae occupied us a whole day. Leaving
our boat at Aswan, below the Cataracts, we set off early,
and, riding over a broad plain of sand, and the remnants of
stones from the quarries, which were once so extensively
worked, and passing through a vast unenclosed cemetery, in
which the rich and poor, the high and the low, lay mingled
together, we came again to the river: a small boat soon
wafted us over the intervening space, to the shore of Philae.
As we drew near to it, it was impossible not to be struck
with the marked contrast of the scenery round about, and of
that below the rapids. Usually, as you know, the banks of
the Nile are of uniform height, without stones or rocks, save
when the mountain range rises abruptly at the water’s edge,
and the eye sees, day‘ after day, the same plain on either
hand, with the villages, and towns, and groves of palms, and
the vast deserts 1n the distance beyond; but heie, massive
rocks not only encompass the river, and divide it into several
smaller streams, but spring up in the very midst of the
channel, and by their huge masses, and the lofty hills all
around, give an air of wildness and almost sublimity to the
scene. To one who, like myself, had become rather wearied
with the monotony of the scenery along the lower portion of
the Nile, it was refreshing to look once more upon such things
as these, and to feel that we were once again amid objects
which forcibly reminded us of portions of our dear native
land. The island itself is picturesquely and rather beauti-
fully situate, and not inaptly deserves the name which has
been given to it;* and one loses all surprise that the Ptole-

"‘ Philae, known in Arabic by the name of Am: el lVoqud, is about seven
miles south of Aswan, and has deservedly obtained the epithet of “ beautiful.”
In Greek it was called (Inlet, and in Egyptian Pilak, or Ailalc, and Illa»n‘-lak,
”the place of the frontier.” I ﬁnd that Mr. Lane, in his admirable version of
the “ Thousand-and—one Nights," supposes a partof the story of Uns—el- IVujoad
and El—Ward—Fi-L—Akman, to refer to the Nile and the island of Philae. 1n

