84 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

going to capture the entire crew of the “Ibis :” one. or two
Were knocked down, and the matter began to look rather
serious. Antonio dashed into the midst of the fray, which
so exasperated the guard, that the scoundrel attempted to
run our dragoman through the body with his sword. Fortu-
nately, our Maltese servant, who had served in an English
man-of-war, was at hand, and seeing the design of the Arab,
he very coolly but effectually planted his ﬁst between the
fellow’s eyes, and left him sprawling on the ground. Antonio
seized the sword, and,'half ﬁghting his way, and getting out
of the confusion as well as he could, he and the men soon
after reached the boat. From appearances on shore, we con-
cluded that further trouble was brewing; and not exactly
liking to come into collision with the ruling powers, we
deemed it most prudent to leave Esneh at once, even at that
late hour. We did so, sword and all, expecting during the
night to be pursued, and to have a battle; but nothing occur-
red till the next day, when to our surprise a boat overtook
us, charged with an humble apolog , and a respectful request
that we would give up our trophy of victory! Looking at
it, as a whole, and considering the danger to which we were
exposed, I cannot help thinking that we got off remarkably
well.

I shall not bestow any more of my tediousness upon you,
my dear S., by attempting to describe several other adven-
tures which we have met with in our journey up the Nile.
It may sufﬁce to declare that in general the days pass, With
little of variety, but still no small share of pleasure: some-
times there is excitement, even to us, in the boat getting
aground, and the noisy efforts put forth by the naked crew
to get her off; in the head winds and calms, and the occa-
sional puffs of fair wind, which blows just long enough to ﬁll
us with hope, and increase our disappointment when it sub-
sides; in the distant prospect of a strange boat, whose char-
acter forms a ﬁne subject of speculation, whom we watch

