164 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

tain. This compartment contains the altar and sacred vessels,
and here, it appears, only the Coptic language is allowed to
be used, which is explained in Arabic to the people by the
priests outside. No furniture of any kind was in the church,
no seats, or anght save a rude stand containing the copy of .
the Scriptures in MSS., from which the bishop or priest
reads; I saw, however, a number of crutches hanging in the
holes of the partition, which the people, who stand during a
great part of the s'ervice, are allowed to use for a support.
On the ﬂoor were mats, and I noticed that the persons who
accompanied the bishop, together with himself, laid aside their
slippers, and walked without shoes during the whole time we
were in the church. Attached to the walls were several
wretchedly executed paintings of the Virgin Mary and the
infant Saviour, and—what may appear rather curious—the
legendary story of which we all have heard often enough, that
of St. George and the Dragon. An old chandelier, and
some other contrivances for lighting the church at night, a
small bell or two for various parts of the service, and curtains
for covering the pictures of the blessed Virgin and St. George,
comprise about all which it is needful to specify, in order to
render intelligible what I would describe. Of the two other
churches, which are close by, and partly under the one above
spoken of, I need not say anything, as they offer no peculiari-
ties at which I have not glanced already. Being much older,
they were less clean and neat than the one which the present
bishop has built, and which he took some laudable pride in
showing to us; they have, too, in greater abundance, that
active little animal the pulez, to whose propensities I believe
that no one who has ever been in a church or convent in the
East, has long remained a stranger. Leaving the church we
were courteously invited to sit again, but as our time was
limited we were obliged to decline, and making our adieus
we left the bishop of Es-Siout and his clergy with feelings of
kindness and respect, not unmingled with disappointment.

