CHURCH OF ST. JOHN THE BAPTIST. 427

the sins and crimes of which the city of Samaria had been
the witness, the idolatries and abominations of Omri, Ahab
and Jezebel; how just the judgments denounced against it
by Elijah, Ezekiel and the other prophets; how fearful the
retribution which came upon it about two hundred years after
its foundation, when Shalmanesar besieged and took it, and
carried away the people into captivity: how horrible .the mur-
ders and other crimes committed here by Herod, the blood
thirsty and jealous tyrant; and how exact and true the pun-
ishment which was come upon it for all the evil which it has
committed on the earth !

Before leaving this interesting locality we made an attempt
to see the interior of the ruins on the east brow of the hill;
they are those of a church erected in honor of St. J ohn‘ the
Baptist, and are among the most prominent and striking
which can anywhere be met with in the Holy Land. On
various accounts we hoped to be able to look closely at these
remains of other days; but like many travellers before us, we
were not permitted so to do, and rather esteemed ourselves
well-oh” that the fanatical guards and peasantry did not assault
us for our presumption. As we approached the ruined church
from the west side, we could not but admire no less the beauty
of situation than the still remaining evidences of a magniﬁcent
ediﬁce on this noble mountain-sideit Even at a distance we
could distinguish clearly the general features of the architec-
ture, which appears to have been the Byzantine; the small
windows, high up from the ground, the beautiful and impo-

* The reputed sepulchre of Neby Yehya (St. John the Baptist) is under a
wely in the enclosure of the church; it is a little chamber excavated deep in
the rock, to which the descent is by twenty—one steps. There is a tradition, but
of little value, that the holy Baptist was cast into prison and executed here;
whereas, Josephus and after him Eusebius relate that he was beheaded in the
castle of Machaerus, on the east of the Dead Sea. Tischendorﬁ‘ relates that
though the ﬁrman ofthe Sultan failed to obtain admittance for him, he succeeded
in getting in through a window, and beheld the art and skill of the Crusaders

in adorning the church, the mutilated crosses of St. John upon marble tab-
lets, 8w.

