DATE OF THE TEMPLE AT DENDERA. 153

twenty-nine feet. The portico is open to the front, above the
screens that unite six of its columns; and in each of the side-
walls is a small doorway. To the portico—I use Wilkinson’s
words—succeeds a hall of six columns, with three rooms on
either side; then a central chamber, communicating on one
side with two small rooms, and on the other with a staircase.
This is followed by another similar chamber (with two rooms
on the west and one on the east side), immediately before the
isolated sanctuary, which has a passage leading round it, and
communicating with three rooms on either side. The total
length of the temple is about two hundred and twenty feet,
by ninety-four, or across the portico a hundred and ﬁfteen
feet: its date, according to the inscription on the ﬁllet of the
cornice of the portico, is of the time of the Emperor Tiberius.

The circumstance just mentioned will account for the fact,
which is quite evident even to an inexperienced observer, that
the temple at Dendera is of a later and a declining style of art.
I was struck with this, more especially at this time, when I
had only three or four days before left Karnak and the won-
dcrs of ancient Thebes, where, despite the defects which I
have presumed to allude to, there is a nobleuess and massive
grandeur in the architectural remains of the temples, obelisks,
statues, &c., which cannot but attract the attention of the
most unscientiﬁc visitor. Here, however, the capitals of the
columns appeared to me deﬁcient in taste, quite to the extent
with which thcv are over-ornamented: they want the sim-
plicity and grace which characterized the earlier works of art
in Egypt; the sculptures are not executed with the skill and
care which might have been expected; and, as has been as-
serted, the hieroglyphics are ill adjusted, and in crowded pro-
fusion. I speak with the utmost dilﬁdence on these points,
because I am entirely conscious how unﬁtted I am by the
habits of life in which I have indulged, to speak either scien-
tiﬁcally or with precision, of architecture in its respective

branches. I should not venture to say even one word, were I
7*

