A TALK WITH TOMMASO. 303

thou knewest not the" time of thy visitation/’4‘ Yes, it Was
even so; and we Who‘ are privileged to be here, where our
Lord was in the days of His suffering and humiliation, can
now begin to comprehend better than we ever did, the touch-
ing pathos of those words of His, “ 0 Jerusalem, Jerusalem,
thou that killest the prophets, and stonest them which are
sent unto thee, how often would I have gathered thy children
together, even as a hen gathereth her chickens under her
Wings, and ye would not!” Ah, thou ruined and degraded
city, thy house is left unto thee desolate; Zion is ploughed
as a ﬁeld; Jerusalem has become heaps, and the mountain
of the house as the high places of the forest ;"r and our eyes
look upon the scene this day. Shall it be without effect?
shall not our tears, too, be poured forth for our own sins?
shall not our supplications go up for the suffering and deso-
late city of the Great King? shall We not pray that God our
Saviour, who ascended into heaven from this mount, will
hasten on the day of His coming again to save His elect from
every nation that is under heaven ?

' But we may notlinger here : the hour is getting late; the
sun will soon sink to his nightly couch; and we must, would
we repose in the Holy City to-night, make our entrance
before sunset. Let us go, then ; leaving all thoughts of the
avenging Roman, who brought destruction upon Jerusalem,
as our Lord had predicted, and the many reminiscences of
the Crusaders and their host, who once stood and gazed as
we now gaze upon the fairest city for situation of the whole
earth, let us descend the slope of Olivet on our'way to our
home. As you observe, by his looks, Tommaso appears to
have somewhat upon his mind to ask us about; let us hear
him: ““7611, my master,” he says, addressing me, “you no
believe what you see in the rock up there ?” pointing back-
ward by a gesture. “ No, Tommaso‘, do you '3” “Yes,

* St. Luke, xix. 29, 35-44; St. Matt. xxi S, 9i. St. Mark, xi. 9, 10.
1‘ Micah, iii. 12. ‘

