VALUE OF ANCIENT OPINIONS. 317

they said or thought, and is he to reject their testimony on,
points where they were as competent to judge as any one.
of us? I trow not. If, on the other hand, a man is deeply
and thoroughly imbued with feelings almost of contempt for
the fathers as a whole, and with actual positive dislike of
everything connected with munks and monkish tradition, is‘
he on that account to be esteemed more capable, more
honest, and more judicious than his neighbors? or shall wé‘
venture to say that he, more than others, will seek to pervert
the truth to suit his views of what ought to be, rather than
what appears to be, the result of a fair and candid investiga-
tion? I repudiate each and every such sentiment as un-
worthy the lovers of truth in its integrity and completeness ;
and simply ask, that the honesty and sincerity of purpose
which I freely and fully accord to others may not be denied
to myself. If, moreover, I know my own heart at all, it is”
that truth should triumph, though every cherished opinion
of my own should thereby be trampled in the dust.

These remarks, my dear 8., would be very much out of
place, and would demand an apology on my part, did it not
seem to me necessary, while here in the Holy Land, to tell
you plainly what are my convictions in regard to certain
l‘ealities, always, up to the last and present century, held to
be sacred; and to give you the reasons why I prefer “the
opinions of antiquity” respecting these points, to those more
or less prevalent in our day, and which have grown out of
very modern scholarship and research. It will be my effort,
as it certainly is my desire, to speak of all such matters in
the most straightforward and candid manner, begging you to
believe, that, Whatever deﬁciency there may seem to you to
be in the presentation of the questions, or the arguments
adduced on either hand, that belongs to me, and is not to be
charged upon the questions themselves. With this under-
standing, I shall take occasion to set before you the reasons
Why I am satisﬁed of the genuineness and verity of the sites

