456 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

full liberty to muse over the eventful history of the great
prophet and his intimate connection with Carmel. We looked
into various chambers or cells of the 'monks (the number of
Whom at present is very small) and made a visit to the
library, which the attendant brother took a good deal of pride
in showing to us. It is a good-sized mom, well arranged
with cases for the books, and very tolerably filled with theo-
logical works. I noticed in the collection a Greek Testament;
a Hebrew Bible; the Vulgate, with commentaries of Maldo-
natus, Bossuet, &c. in twenty-eight vols; most of the Fathers,
as Irenaaus, Chrysostom, Gregory Nazianzen, Basil, Cyril
of Jerusalem, Lactantius, Tertullian, Jerome, Augustine,
&c.; Bellarmine’s works; Baronius’s Annals; Pallavinci’s
Council of Trent; Labbé and Cossart’s General Councils:
controversial works; Jesuits’ Bodies of Divinity; Lives of
the Saints; &c., &o. I fear, however, that the library is
more of a show-r00m than anything else, and that the books
are not kept for use or study, so much as to be able to say
that they have such and such volumes. I may be wrong,
but I believe that the present race of monks everywhere do
not trouble books much anyway. In the dining-room, we
amused ourselves with looking over the “ Travellers’ Book,”
which contains some very odd, some very silly, some very
proper things, and which lets one’ into‘the real characters of
visitors more perfectly than by any other process. During the
evening, we had a pleasant party of friends, who unexpectedly
came in upbn us ; and we kept up an animated conversation
with Brother Clement, on various matters of public interest,
which even in a monastery stir up the curiosity of the occu-
pants.

It wasa source of much pleasure, and we trust proﬁt also,
to read over the various portions of Holy Writ relative to

understood how this mountain became a favorite place of resort for anchorites,
and of refuge for the persecuted."—Tischendorﬁ‘s “ Hotels in the East,” 1).
245.

