166 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

architecture; all the wavy lines and scrolls, and other Greek
forms, are here executed with taste and exquisite delicacy.”
The inner rooms are large, and deeply interesting to the anti-
quarian; the roofs are adorned with paintings, the colors of
which can even yet be tolerably well distinguished, and on
the walls are many hieroglyphics, some of them of consider"-
able importance. Of course it would be quite out of the
question, for me to pretend to speak fully of these curious
catacombs; at most, I can but hope to convey to you some
faint idea of a high bill, which has been cut into in hundreds
of places, and is so full of grottoes and smaller excavations,
that it is pronounced by Denon cavernous, and is said to
resound under the foot. We made our way through the sand
and rubbish, into many of the inner chambers, and saw
evidences of mummy remains, not only of human beings, but
of wolves, which latter circumstance is in accordance with
the fact, that the ancient city was called Lycopolz's, “the city
of wolves,” and that that animal was held sacred by its inhabi-
tants. Perhaps the most interesting thing to a Christian, in
connection with these catacombs, is the fact, that they were
once used as the abodes of the persecuted and despised fol-
lowers of the cross, and at a later period became the favorite
haunts of monks and anchorites. Egypt, as you well know,
was the original home of monasticism, and from it spread a
system, which had its advantages to a certain extent, but
which very soon became corrupted and abused in the most
lamentable manner. Probably, as Wilkinson suggests, it was
from one of these tombs that J ohu of'Lycopolis gave his orac-
ular answer to the embassy of the Emperor Theodosius, a
circumstance which afforded Gibbon an opportunity to relate
the story in his usual style of affected respect, but of real
insult to Christianity.’r As I stood, looking down from
the summit of the hill, upon the city of Es-Siout, and during

* Russell’s “Ancient and [Wodem Egypt," p. 2H.
1‘ See Gibbon’s “ Decline and Fall," &c., vol. ii. p. 179, Am. Ed. 184%.

6

