200 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

knowledge or conception of its meaning or signiﬁcance; and
they gaze at it with listless indifference, roused only by the
visits of inquisitive foreigners, Whom—they count little better
than fools or madmen. Far, far back into antiquity does its
history reach, not much short of three thousand six hundred
years ago (Mr. Gliddon dates it about 3.0. 2070); and yet
here it stands, while everything else in connection with Heli-
opolis, that famous seat of learning and Egyptian wisdom,
has faded away, and become very dust and ashes. You will
not wonder that I fell into my usual musing way, orthat I
spent a long time in striving to realize the lessons which such
monuments ought ever to teach, of the unsatisfying nature
of human glory, and the utter Worthlessness of this world’s
fame, power, and magniﬁcence. I read the inscription as well
as I could, though it is not easy, in consequence of a multitude
of wasps, or insects of that sort, having deposited the mate-
rials for their homes on a considerable portion of the obelisk’s
faces. Mr. Osburn translates it as follows, stating that on
each face is the same hieroglyphic inscription :—

“Horus the life-giver, the king of an obedient people (Sun

offered to the world), lord of Upper and Lower Egypt, the

life-giving son of the Sun, Osortasen, beloved of the spirits

of Poone, the hawk of gold, thelife-giver, the greatgod, (Sun

offered to the world), the celebrator of the festivals, giving
eternal life.”

Rosselini’s translation, as given by Mr. Gliddon, is sub-
stantially the same :—

“ The Horus [living of men], Pharaoh, SUN OFFERED TO THE
WORLD, lord of Upper and Lower Egypt, the living of men,
son of the Sun, OSORTASEN, beloved of the spirits in the re-
gion of Pone, ever—living, life of mankind, resplendent Horus,
beneﬁcent deity, SUN orrnnnn TO THE WORLD, who has begun
the celebration of his two panegyries to him who makes him,
viviﬁer forever.”

Truly, methought, as I stood looking at this really beauti-

