154 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

not aware, that you Will look for some opinion from me on
such subjects, little worth as that opinion may be in general.
If you will do me the kindness to receive it, as from one who
looks at the Wonders of Egypt with feelings of profound as-
tonishment, and the deepest interest, and who has no other
standard of judgment save that which belongs to all travellers,
without reference to their scientiﬁc attainments, I shall be
satisﬁed, and you will not be liable to err to any extent, as to
the value of any sentiment herein expressed. But, to return
from this digression: the temple of Dendera is certainly open
to criticism, and yet. it wears an imposing appearance, and is
not devoid of beauty and grandeur ; and I well recollect, that
by the older travellers, before its actual date was known, it
was spoken of in terms of the highest, nay, most extravagant
admiration. However it may be esteemed by those who come
after the present race of Egyptologers and travellers, there
can be no doubt, that it will always be looked upon with in-
terest, as a noble specimen of architecture, as it existed in
the days of the early Roman emperors, and when science
was on its decline in the land of the Ptolemiesﬁ‘

We spent some considerable time in exploring the various
chambers and halls of the temple, many of which required
torches to enable us to distinguish the sculptures and orna-
ments which they contain. Since the late pasha, Mohammed
Ali, effected the entire clearing out of the accumulated rub-

* " Though the columns of this temple, considered singly, may be said to
have a heavy, perhaps a. barbarous appearance, the portico is doubtless a noble
specimen of architecture; nor is the succeeding hall devoid of beauty and
symmetry of proportion. The preservation of its roof also adds greatly to the
beauty as well as the interest of the portico, and many of those in the Egyptian
temples lose their effect by being destitute of roots. Generally speaking,
Egyptian temples are more picturesque when in ruins than when entire; being,
if seen from without, merely a large dead wall, scarcely relieved by a slight
increase in the height of the portico; but not so the portico itself; nor did a
temple present the same monotonous appearance when the painted sculptures

were in their original state; and it was the necessity of relieving the large
expanse. of ﬂat wall that led to this rich mode of decoration.”—"Hancl Book/'01

Egypt," p. 323.

