454 EGYPT AND 'THE HOLY LAND.

things, if I tell you of ’the‘excellent fare which brother Ole.-
ment provides, the coffee, the eggs, the ﬁsh, the meat of dif«
ferent'sorts, the vegetables, (Sec. , or if I tell you particularly
of the delicious wine which the good monk regularly invites
the traveller to partake of, both morning and evening, at the
same time ”not forgetting to join you in the cheerful glass: 1
mayin‘ot dwell upon matters of which I am almost entirely
ignorant; but I can assure you, that I have never tasted of.
anythingiso perfectly superb in the way of wine as that wine
ofMount'Lebanon in which brother Clement regularly pledged
us,»and‘in the drinking of which we most heartily wished pres-
perity to both him and. the noble'e'stablishment on Mount
Carmel. Believe me, ‘We are not likely soon to forget the
hospitalities of these two‘ days, and 'We shall cherish the
recollections of all Whom we met there, at the hospice, :as
among the brightest in our whole" oriental experience. 1 . ..

There is something so'honorable ,to a :venerable monk
(whom we are sorry to say we did not see, he being ab-
sent at‘thc time)‘in’connection with this ediﬁce, that I cannot
but occupy' your attention a few moments in recording the
main facts respecting the Hospice on Mount Carmel At the
time of the French occupancy of the Holy Land, now a little
’more- than ﬁfty years ago, the Carmelite monks kindly‘at-
tended to the sick and Wounded who were brought here; but
‘wheh Bonaparte was repulsed at St. J can d’Acre, the Turks,
exasperated against the monks, and all connected with it,
massacred the wounded French, drove away the monks, broke
up the convent, and left it in almost entire min. In 1819,
Giovahnii’Batti'stafthe monk Whose name will ever be associ-
ated with'the present ediﬁce, made a visit to the mountain,
‘by order of his'superior, for the purpose of seeing if it were
‘not‘possible to restore’it to its former use. Unfortunately the
notorious Abdallah Pasha interfered, and being full of hatred
to the Christians, and just at that time full of angry desires on
account of a revolt of the Greeks under his dominion, he easily

