62 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

All this is certainly dry enough, and hardly to be excused
on any plea, unless you will tolerate it on the ground of its
giving you a glimpse, at least, of the diﬂiculties and uncer-
tainties attendant upon ancient chronology in general, and
that of Egypt in particular. It will be more interesting, 'I
hope, to spend a few moments in endeavoring to ascertain
who were the builders, or were concerned in the building of
the Pyramids.

Here, too, the opinions of the learned are various, and ndt
very satisfactory. Some writers of eminence suppose, that
the Jews were compelled to labor in the erection of the Pyr-
amids. Josephus, in speaking of the various modes in which
the Egyptians oppressed the Israelites, expressly declares that
the Pharaohs of that period, “ who knew not Joseph” and his
services, “set them also to build pyramids.”k Perizoniﬂs,
(1711) in his “History of Egypt,” quotes the statement of
Josephus, just given; and though doubting, on the whole, the
great antiquity of these buildings, is of opinion that they were
constructed by the HebrewsnL Dr. Clarke (1801) inclines
strongly to the View, that the Jews, though chieﬂy employed
upon brick constructions, were occupied in the erection of
the Pyramids of Memphis: he has, besides, a notion peculiar
to himself, so far as I know, viz., that the Great Pyramid
was the tomb of Joseph, and that it was opened at the Ex-
odus, that his bones might be carried up to J udea. In Cal-
met’s “ Dictionary of the Holy Bible,” several pages are de-
voted to the advocacy of the theory now under consideration:
a degree of acuteness is displayed, but the arguments adduced
are far from convincing}? The learned and reverend Henry
Browne, in his “ Ordo Saaclorum,” (1844) is the latest writer,
I believe, who takes this view of the question. “That the

at ca fut d’un de ces chefs étrangers que Joseph, ﬁls de Jacob, fut 1e premier
ministre;” &c.—“ Egypte Ancienne,” p. 42.

* Joseph. “ Antiq." ii. 9. 1' See Vyse’s “ Pyramids,” vol. ii. p. 236.

it Calmet’s "Diclima7y," p. 374. Am. Ed. 1843.

