ENGLISH MISSION ”1‘0 THE JEVVS. 277

very much; and I am quite unequal to the task of describing
the many striking characteristics, of those who occupy, at
the present day, a portion of that illustrious city, in which
their ancestors dwelt in power and glory. Poor, aged, care-
worn, shrinking from the approach of strangers, fearful of
insult, dreading oppression and outrage, living in penury and
degradation, outcasts, bywords to their neighbors, and de-
sirous only to lay their bones Within the precincts of the city
of the Great King,—O, how‘ do they and their deplorable
condition touch the sympathies of the Christian heart! how
do they appear before our eyes as the living witnesses of the
truth and exactness of God’s Holy Word! and how earnestly
does the servant of the Lord Jesus Christ, the only and true
Messiah, pray for their conversion, and labor to his utmost
that they may soon be brought to the knowledge of the truth
as it is in Jesus!

With such feelings as these, you will readily understand
the deep interest which I have in the success of the English
mission, now established ,and in operation at Jerusalem. I

_ have had the pleasure of much intercourse with the Rt. Rev.
Bishop Gobat, the Rev. Mr. Nicolayson, and the Rev. Mr.
Ewald; and am much indebted to these brethren for answers
to my numerous inquiries, as to the present prospects of their
labors. On the whole, they spoke encouragingly, but not .to
the extent which I had hoped, or which, I think, the friends
of the mission have had a right to expect. The establish-
ment of the English bishopric in Jerusalem, at the very focus,
and in the midst of every form of bitter sectarianism and
hostility to all new-comers, promised ,at ﬁrst to produce a
good effect, and, like oil on the raging sea, to calm the waters
of discontent, hatred, and actual warfare; and it was hoped
that the name and inﬂuence» of England would not he with-
out result, upon .the Turkish and (Mohammedan population
in the Holy City. But I regret to say, that, gsoxfar as it ap-
pears, even from the representations of :those who have sup-

