2 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

and an active Maltese servant secured, we bade adieu to
Malta and its hospitalities on the 9th inst, and turned our
thoughts and Wishes towards Egypt and its mysterious won-
'ders. We embarked in a French government steamer, the
Egyptus, a large and well- furnished vessel, the captain of
which spoke English with ﬂuency, and was very attentive
' to the wants of his passengers. We Were favored with beau-
tiful weather, though rather a rough sea and its usual disa-
greeable consequences. Among our fellow-voyagers were
Ahmed Bey and Ismael Bey, two sons of Ibrahim Pasha,
whose recent death had obliged them to leave the military
schools in Paris, in order to be present at the settlement of
their father’s aﬂ'airs. They were young men of about twenty
and twenty—two years of age; short, and almost squat ﬁg-
ures, small, inexpressive eyes, and altogether as unintelleotual
looking'persons as one could Well imagine: their costume,
too, half French half Turkish, was in the worst possible taste.
Certainly this would' hardly be worth mentioning, had not
Ibrahim Pasha’s name led us to expect something at least
toleiably respectable; and their connection with the family
of Mohammad Ali induced us to suppose that there might
be some sparks (if that genius which has given the late Pasha
of Egypt a position of no mean importance in history. But
there was nothing of the sort in their manners, speech, or
personal appearance; and though I would not deny the possi-
bility of their possessing abilities of a high order, I am sorry
to say that there was not the slightest indication of such
being the case in anything which tianspired on board the
Egyptus.

’ Towards evening, on the 13th, we were of? our destined
port, but, in the judgment of one of the lank—looking Arab
pilots who here hold sway, we were too late to enter. Our
captain, however, was a spirited fellow, and being inti-
mately acquainted with the navigation of the Mediterranean
in general, and the entrance to Alexandria 1n particular, he

