THE OBELISK AND ITS LESSONS. 201

ful obelisk, all such boasting is vain, and all the might, maj-
esty, and dominion of man, is like his life itself,—“ a vapor
that appeareth for a little time, and then vanisheth away.”
Alas, how little do we know of him, the monarch of Egypt,
who once trod therearth so proudly, rejoicing in his strength,
surrounded by sycophants and ﬂatterers, and vainly hoping
to escape the doom of man—oblivion and nothingness! This
single block of stone is all: it tells his name, and parades his
kingly titles; his wars and conquests, his magniﬁcence and
glory, his virtues and vices, his qualities of head and heart,
his trials and successes, his domestic life, and those manifold
characteristics which link him to us and the great family of
mam—what do we know of them? and what is Osortasen
to us but a name, a mere name, to which we attach noddea?
0, instead of seeking those things in which fallen man so
much rejoices, may our inheritance be that of which St. Peter
speaks, “incorruptible, and undeﬁled, and that fadeth not
away, reserved in heaven for us ;”- and may we be among
the wise, and them that turn many to righteousness, for they
“shall shine as the brightness of the ﬁrmament, and as the
stars forever and ever.”*

It was not the least interesting feature in connection with
Heliopolis, to call to mind the Scripture story—so inimitably
told—of Joseph, the good and noble Joseph. He, you re-
member, by his wisdom and the blessing of God resting
upon him, was made ruler over all the land of Egypt: “ and
Pharaoh called Joseph’s name Zaphnath-paaneah ft and he
gave him to wife Asenath, the daughter of Poti-pherah,i

* 1 Yet. i. 4; Dan. xii. 3.

1‘ Gesenius’s Lexicon is worth looking into for the signiﬁcation of this name.
The Septuagint give ‘X’ateawpayﬁx, which means, according to Egyptian authori-
ties, “ the Saviour of the world.” Jerome also interprets it Senator mundi;
Kimchi, however, makes the Hebrew words to signify “ Revealer of secrets.”

If, This name Poti-pherah, Pete-phra, he who belongs to the sun, is very com-
mon on the monuments of Egypt. “ The ancient Egyptian name of Heliopolis
was in hieroglyphics Re-ei or Ei-re, ‘the house’ or ‘abode of the Sun,’ car-

9*

