EXCITEMENT 0N LEAVING. 69

sary of the American consulate, but to get off as early as
possible, so as to return to Cairo the same day. A party of
at least ﬁfty wild Arabs gathered around in expectation of
that greatest of all delights to a Bedawy, getting of bakh-
shish. Every fellow Whom you had looked at, or rapped
over the knuckles, or driven off, or almost trampled under
foot in your vexation, came for bakhshish; the black eyes
ﬂashed with eagerness; the boy with his goolel or water-jug,
the one who had lent a helping-hand in the ascent or forced
himself upon you when visiting the interior, the old and the
young, the sheikh of the village near by, and the naked vag-
abond, all pressed forward and cried the well-known Arab
cry, “ bakhshish, bakhshish l” The boys and half-grown men,
at one side, signiﬁcantly drew their ﬁngers across their mouths,
and then snapped them like the lash of a whip, pointing fur.
tively to the sheikh, and implored us not to give their bakh-
shish, into his hands, since, in that case, poor fellows, they stood
very little chance of ever seeing a para of it in their own
possession. While our friend the janissary remained, things
Went on pretty well, and the clamor was kept within due
bounds; he whirled his staff of ofﬁce about without regard
to whom he struck, and with hearty good-will, and through
him we paid every man at least ﬁve times as much as he
deserved. Mr'. and Mrs. B. bade us good-morning, and pre-
ceded by the janissary, rode off towards Sakhara; and then
you should have seen what a storm of noise and confusion
was stirred up! they crowded round us by dozens, not a sin-
gle one satisﬁed, and all excited to a degree beyond what is
usual even among Arabs; they shouted for more, more! laid
their hands upon the heads of our donkeys, and seemed dis-
posed to proceed to extremities. Happily we did not lose our
presence of mind, but we did become indignant, and spring-
ing on the backs of our trusty steeds, we warned them to
clear the road, and ﬂinging aside every fellow who stood in
the way, We dashed forward over the sands towards Gizeh.

