TOMB OF RACHEL. 369

passed very near the Tomb of Rachel, which is doubtless the
true site where the beloved wife of the patriarch was buried;
but we did not stop to examine it, both because it was get-
ting late, and because in itself the present ediﬁce odors noth-
ing specially worthy of notice :* it is like hundreds of tombs
of Mohammedan saints in various parts of the country; but
is picturesquely situate in a retired garden, or ﬁeld, at a little
:distance from the road. Hurrying onward we came to .Deir
Mar Elyas, the convent of St. Elias, which has a noble posi-
tion in a gorge of the hills, and from which Jerusalem pre-
sents a grand appearance. We arrived at the gate of the
city, just as the sun was setting behind the hills in the west,
not sorry, at least on my part, .to ﬁnd a place of repose, and
deeply impressed with what we had been privileged to be-
held.

As I did not have the pleasure of visiting Hebron and its
vicinity, Mr. Pratt has kindly allowed me to make an extract
from his Journal in relation to this locality. I am sure you
will be glad to read what I have copied out :— 1

“After leaving the pools of Solomon, the road became
steeper and harder for the horses, but in no place did Iﬁnd
it a very difﬁcult one for the country. At Ed-Dirweh are a
fountain and ruins, which our guide informed us Were those

‘ Dr, Robinson, who will not be charged with eredulity in regard to tradition-
aery localities, thinks, that “ the tradition which has ﬁxed upon' this spot for the
tomb of Rachel, cannot well be drawn in question," Speaking of the tomb, he
says, " This is merely an ordinary welyr or tomb of a holy person; a small,
square building, with a dome, and within it a tomb in the ordinary Mohammedan
‘form; the whole plastered over with mortar, Of‘ course the building is not an-
cient. In the 7th century there was here only a pyramid of stones. It is now
neglected and falﬁng to decay, though pilgrimages are still made toit by the
Jews. The naked Walls are covered with names in several languages, many
of them in Heb_rew.”~—“ Biblical Researches,” vol._ i. p. 322.

16*

