202 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

priest of On,”—-which city was afterwards by the Greeks
called Heliopolis. It was an alliance of great moment as
well to Joseph and his family, still in Canaan, as to the
monarch and people of Egypt. It established Joseph’s
power on a ﬁrm basis, by connecting him with a noble fam-
ily, and enabled him to make such arrangements as might
best subserve the end which Divine Providence purposed
accomplishing in this way. For, you will observe, that not
only were the priests, as a body, possessed of very great
power and inﬂuence, but the particular college at On, or
Heliopolis, was renowned above all, and of course the high
priest of On was the most distinguished; his son-in-law, as
ruler of Egypt, must have been supreme. It would seem,
also, as Osburn suggests, “that in name, in dress, in lan-
guage, and in manners, (doubtless so far only as was con-
sistent with the service of the God to whom he was so
eminently devoted,) he appeared as an Egyptian, (Gen. xlii.
23.)”* In later times, the prophets speak of Heliopolis un-
der names signifying the same thing as the Greek word; he,
Nebuchadrezzar, “shall break also the images of Beth-
shemesh, that is in the land of Egypt ;” “ the young men of
Aven (On) shall fall by the sword.”1’ After the accession
of the Ptolemies, it ceased to be the seat of learning and
inﬂuence, the new capital, Alexandria, outrivalling all com-
petitors ; and in the days of Strabo (BC. 30) it had become
deserted, several of its obelisks had been removed, and its
importance had dwindled into almost nothing. Since then
it has sunk into entire ruin, and it would not be easy to ﬁnd
the site of the city, were it not for the obelisk and a few
fragments noticed by Wilkinson. Let me conclude this

responding to the title Bethshemes, of the same import, which was applied to it
by the Jews; and in Scripture and in Coptic it is called 0n.”

" “Antiquities qf Egypt,” p. 16. See Hengstenberg’s “ Egypt and the Book:
of Moses,” p. 32—34.

1 Jet. xliii. 13; Ezek. xxx. 17.

