ADVENTURE AT ESNEH. 83

ready to make any concessions, and promise anything in the
world for the future; and after keeping him a considerable
time, and listening to various deputations from the shore for
his release, we let him go, with the most solemn assurance
that a repetition of the offence would meet with condign
punishment. Not long after, the sheikh of the village came,
and, apologizing for what had taken place, drove the people
away from the river’s bank, and left us to pass the night in
peace.

A more serious affair occurred at Esneh, a city of some
size, and of more notoriety than goodness of character. We
arrived here in the course of the morning, and, drawing up
to the bank, in company with other boats, we intended to
remain till the next day. I had a call to make on the bishop
of Esneh, the temple was to be explored, some other matters
to be attended to, &c., which gave us occupation during the
day. I ought to mention, that at all towns or villages of
any size, there are a number of petty, rude cafés, where
pipes, coffee, &o., are furnished. Our crew were scattered
about in various directions, enjoying themselves in any way that
they pleased. At a late hour, about ten o’clock, we sent one
of the two or three remaining on board to call in his compan-
ions. Now, according to the rule or law (established, I be-
lieve, by the government), it is not allowed. for any boatmen,
after dark, to be on shore without a lantern; if they are
found so, the guard is empowered to arrest them. As the
café to which he was going is not more than ﬁfty or sixty
feet from the boat, our messenger thought that he might ven-
ture to go without his {anus or paper lantern; but it was an
unwise step. A rough fellow, armed with a sword and long
Arab musket, was on duty, and he laid hands on our man
before he had time to get through with his errand. In his
fright, he called out to his companions for help, and they,
nothing loath, rushed on shore, sticks in hand: the‘ guard was
perfectly furious, and when he obtained a reinforcement, was

