GROTTOES OF BENI-HASSAN. 167

our ride back to the boat; these things aﬂ'orded abundant food
for reﬂection.

It is not without hesitation that I venture at this point,
having already occupied you a long time, to speak of the
eaves or grottoes of Beni-Hassan. Deeply interesting as they
are, in connection with a question which Sir G. Wilkinson dis-
cusses with great good sense, and respecting which he draws
a conclusion. different from what we might have hoped the
evidence would furnish, it may not, perhaps, be wise to intro.
duce any account of them at the end of a letter; and I assure
you, were I about to consult the taste of persons in general,
I should omit, until another opportunity, all mention of Beni-
Hassan and its catacombs. But with you, my dear 8., I feel
that I may take this liberty, and may beg that the indulgence
which has so often been granted, may again be extended to
me on the present occasion. It will be my aim to be as con-
cise as I can, and, at the same time, as particular as my
limited space will allow.

These grottoes or caves are perfectly accessible from the
river at this period, when the water is low, though at the
same time, it involves the necessity of a walk, rather long for
comfort, under a hot sun, and rather toilsome for such per-
sons as myself, who feel the labor of climbing a steep ascent.
I was struck with the appearance which the large boulders,
which lie scattered round on the side of the hill or mountain,
present, in contrast with the usual absence of everything of the
kind in the valley of the Nile. Wilkinson terms them calcare-
ous, and says that they are full of shells, containing much silex,
very heavy and hard, and externally of a dark-brown color.
He also expresses the opinion, that probably these large stones
'were once in horizontal beds, like ﬂints in chalk, and that
the decay of the stratum in which, they lie, has in many
places disengaged them ;—an opinion which is, no doubt,
correct. On reaching an elevation of about eighty feet above
the river, we came to the entrances of the ‘caves which front

