BATTLE SCENES ON THE WALLS. 135

gone by, we should not deem it possible that any works of
art could retain their beauty and elegance for more than’
three thousand two hundred years.

Directly behind the obelisk and the spot where its com;
panion stood, are two colossal sitting ﬁgures of Remeses IL,
placed on either side of the pylon or gateway; but, like all
the statues which I have seen, they. are greatly mutilated
and broken: these are also half- buried in the sand and earth,
which" has gradually accumulated about them. I need not,
however, dwell upon objects cemparatively of little interest:
far more striking and more Worthy of a lengthened descrip-
tion, are the battle scenes sculptured on the front of the
towers. Though concealed, to a considerable extent, by the
huts of the villagers, and evidently not in their best condition,
these sculptures strike one very forcibly, as illustrative of the
skill and taste of the artists so many centuries ago; and, to
use the language of Mr. Hamilton, as quoted by Dr. Russell, it
is impossible “to View and to reﬂect upon a picture so copious
and so detailed, as this I have just described, without fancying
that we saw here the original of many of Homer’s battles,
the portrait of some of the historical narratives of Herodotus,
and one of the principal groundworks of the description-of -
Diodorus: and to complete our gratiﬁcation, we felt that,»
had the artist been better acquainted with the rules of per»
spective, the performance might have done credit to the genius.
of a Michael Angelo, or a Julio-Romano. To add to the
effect, in front of this wall had been erected a row of colossal
ﬁgures of granite;‘fragments'of,some of them, still therc,~
sufﬁciently attest their size, their character, and the exquisite
polish of the stone.” ‘ ,

I shall not attempt to describe the various portions of the
temple at Luxor, more especially since they are detailed with
much fulness in the admirable “Hand Book for Egypt ;” nor
will it particularly interest you, to beltold into how many
ruined chambers I.ventured: to follow my-guide: It would

