PICTURE OF THE BRICK-MAKERS. 123

and palaces of Thebes, under Pharaoh Moeris, he says: “never,
perhaps, has so striking a pictorial comment as this upon the
sacred text, been before recovered. The physiogn'omy of the
Jews it is impossible to mistake; and the splashes of clay
with which their bodies are covered, the air of close and in-
tense labor that is conveyed by the grouping on the left side
of the picture, and, above all, the Egyptian taskmaster
seated with his heavy baton, whose remorseless blows would,
doubtless, visit the least relaxation of the slaves he was driv-
ing from their wearisome and toilsome task of making bricks,
and spreading them to dry in the burning sun of Egypt, give
a vivid impression of the exactitude of the Scripture phrase,
‘all their service wherein they made them serve was with
rigor.’ The inscription at the top of the picture, to the
right, reads, ‘Captives brought by his majesty’ (Moeris), ‘to
build the temple of the great god.’ This means, either that
Moeris was the king ‘that arose that knew not Joseph, and
that reduced the children of Israel to servitude ;’ or, more
probably, that the family or gang of Israelites which are here
represented, had been marched up from Goshen, and attached
especially to the building of the temples at Thebes.” I shall
not, however, enticing though the theme be, dwell longer
upon this interesting picture, or the many others which this
tomb contains. You will ﬁnd all that is known, and the
opinions of the wise and learned in Egyptian history and an-
tiquities, in the volumes of the authors above named ; and I
will not doubt that you will agree with me in the sentiments
I have ventured to express? At this time, let me beg your

* Osburn’s “Antiquities of Egypt,” pp. 220, 221.

1' Since my return to the United States there has been published, “The Mom
uments of Egypt, or Egypt a Witness for the Bible,” by Francis L. Hawks, D.D,,
LL.D., Svo. pp. 418. The learned author, in speaking of the bondage of the
children of Israel in Egypt, discusses this subject quite at large, and with his

‘usual ability. I am happy to refer you to pp. 179—188, where you will observe.
Dr. Hawks advocates the view adopted by Hengstenberg and Osburn.

