MOSK 0F AHMED IBN ET-TULUN. 191

vatlon. You will not be displeased, I am conﬁdent, if I de-
scribe one or two of these mosks somewhat at large. They
are said to be very numerous in the metropolis—VVilkinson
thinks about four hundred; but they do not differ much, ex-
cept in size and variety of minarets, and would not repay one
for the trouble of visiting them all: hence I shall conﬁne my
remarks to those two, which seem to have the greatest inter-
est connected with them,—-the one as being the oldest, the
other the ﬁnest mosk in Cairo.

The mask of Ahmed ibn et-Tﬁlun, commonly known as
the “Gama Taylun,” is the oldest in the metropolis, having
been founded nearly a hundred years before any other part
of the city, in the year A.H. 265 2 AD. 879; and though it
is not particularly attractive on the score of architectural
beauty, it is very interesting in another point of view, as
establishing the use of the pointed arch, some three hundred
years before its introduction into England. The exterior, like
that of most of the mosks which I have seen, presents a sin-
gular want of taste, according to our ideas, in having the
walls daubed, for I can call it nothing else, with alternate
horizontal stripes of coarse red and white paint, which seems
to me to give the building a childish and almost ridiculous
appearance. The ediﬁce, as a whole, is very large, and the
windows are few, small, and protected by thin bars of wood
or iron, which form a sort of lattice-Work, through which the
air circulates freely. This particular mosk has a very singu-
lar mad’neh or minaret, unlike, I believe, any other in Cairo;
for the staircase, by which the ascent is made, winds round
the outside. The cause of this peculiarity is thus given by
Wilkinson: “It is said to have originated in the absent hab-
its of its founder, and an observation of his wizeer: he had
observed him unconsciously rolling a piece of parchment into
a spiral form; and, having remarked, ‘it was a pity his maj-
esty had no better employment,’ the king, in order to excuse
himself, replied, ‘so far from triﬂing, Ihave been thinking

