390 EGYPT ,AND. THE HOLY LAND.

not\easily seen,'on account of the thick bushes which grow
there ;» and were witness to the fact of ~its very tortuous
course and its rapid stream.* Maundrell says that in his
time the bank of the Jordan was set thick with trees, such
as'tamarisks, willows, oleanders, &c., and that in this thicket
it was reported that wild beasts of several sorts used to bar.-
bor themselves, “whose being washed out of the covert by
the overﬂowingsof the river, gave rise to that allusion, ‘He
shall come up like a lion from the swelling of Jordan.’ ” I
could readily imagine that even now the same thing might be
true, though it is stated by good authorities that lions have
always been very rare in Syria ; for so impervious is the thick
shrubbery, and so abundant the foliage, that wild animals
might well ﬁnd coverts here, and spring out upon the travel-
ler Without a moment’s warning. I believe, however, that
the only dangerous creature to be feared in these spotsnow,
is the 'wild and lawless Bedawy, who, if he have committed
murder, has butito cross the Jordan and join his brethren on
the east side of the river, the government being too weak and
eontemptihle to search out the offender and bring him to jus-
tice. We did not meet With any actual, tangible danger
while traversing the valley of the Jordan; yet our sheikh ap—
peared to be more than ordinarily active, and on the look-out,

* Just a year ago, Lieutenant Lynch was on the Jordan; under date of
April 18th, 1848, he made a report to the‘ Secretary of the Navy, from which I
beg to extract a few sentences: “To my consternation, I soon found that the
Jordan was interrupted in its course by frequent and most fearful rapids. . . ,,
We had to, clear out_ old channels, to make new ones, and sometimes, placing
our sole trust in _Providencc, plunged with headlong velocity down appalling
descents ..... ‘. . The great secret of the depression between Lake Tiberias
and the Dead sea, is solved by the tortuous course of the Jordan. In a speed:
of sixty miles of latitude and four or,,ﬂ\'e miles of longitude, the Jordan trav-
erses at least 200 miles. The river is in the latter stage of a freshet~a few
weeks earlier or later, and passage would have been impracticable. As it is, we
have plunged down twenty4seven threatening rapids, besides a great many of
lesser magnitude ..... The course of the river is more sinuous than even that
ofthe Mississippi.”—Lieutenant Lynch’s “ Expedition to the Dead Sea,” p. 264,

