502 APPENDIX.

CANE, Jerusalem feliciter pervenisse~ die 5 Aprilis Mensis,. 13w, inde
subsequentibus diebus praecipua Sanctuaria, in quibus Mundi Salvabor
dilectum populum suum, imo et totius humani generis perditam conge-
riem ab inferi servitute misereorditer liberavit, utpote Calvarium, ubi
Cruci afﬁxus, devicta morte, Coeli jnnuas nobis aperuit; SS. Sepulchrum,
ubi Sacrosanctum ejus corpus reconditnm, triduo ante suam gloriosissi-
mam Resurrectionem quievit, ac tandem ea omnia Sacra Palestinaa
Loca gressibus Domini, ac Beatissimae ejus Matris Mariae consecrata, a
Religiosis N ostris, et Peregrinis Visitari solita, visitasse. ‘
In quorum ﬁdem has scriptures ofﬁeii nostri sigillo munitas per 'Sec-
retarium expediri mandavimus.
Datis apud S. Civitatem Jerusalem ex Venerabili nostro Conventu
SS. Salvatoris.
Die 12 Mensis Aprilis, Anno D. 1849.

’9‘" .De Mandate Revermdiss. in Christa Pam's,
{ £12111; } FR. Auromus A TRANSFIGURATIONE,
wv TERRAE S’TAE PRO-Sno’s.

NOTE TO PAGE 405.

I subjoin an interesting passage, from a distinguished oriental scholar,
respecting the miracle wrought by Joshua, which, if it serve no other
purpose, Will show how the Jews interpret the passages of Holy V_Vrit‘
relative to this wonderful display of Divine power.

“We will now proceed to investigate another most important point
of this period of Jewish philosophy; one which, through the ignorance
of translators and commentators, has bid fair to eclipse its whole sys-
tem, and to throw all the science of the ancient Hebrews into shade :
it is no less than the sun, according to our translators, standing still at
the command of Joshua. I shall proceed to show you, that the text
of this important passage says no such thing , and that the error has
crept in through the unphilosophical conceptions which its translators
have foimed of their original.”

After quoting the original words, the author goes on to say:

“Our translators have expressed this,—‘Theu spake Joshua to the
Lord, in the day when the Lord delivered up the Amorites before the
Children of Israel; and he said, in the sight of Israel, “ Sun, stand thou
still upon Gibeon; and thou, Moon, in the valley of Ajalon.” And the
sun stood still, and the moon stayed, until the people .had avenged

