284 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

an importance at Constantinople, which, independently of
this, they would not possess; the Armenians make up by
their Wealth what they lack in this respect, and are thus auc-
to sway the decisions of the Porte. The Syrians and Copts,
are too poor and too insigniﬁcant, to contend with these pow-
erful rivals; but being in cemmunion with the Armenians
they are, for the most part, identiﬁed with their interests and
enjoy their protection; in return for which, they are expected
to submit to such spoliations as their protectors think right to
inﬂict. . . . . . . . . I would even avow a con-
viction, forced upon me by such facts as these, and only con-
ﬁrmed by time, that the Turks are, for the present, the best
and safest guardians of the Holy places; and that until the
Christians have laid aside their animosities, the control of an
inﬁdel, and therefore indifferent arbiter, will be necessary to
restrain within some bounds, those vindictive feuds which,
even though kept in- check, break out occasionally into acts
of open and even fatal violence. It were frightful to contem-
plate the consequences of power being given into the hands
of any one of the Christian bodies who now divide the sacred
city.”* The social state and condition of the Christians in
Jerusalem is, on the whole, calculated to excite our commis-
ciation; their principal occupation is the making of crosses,
heads, boxes, cruciﬁxes, 550., for which they ﬁnd a ready sale
at the time of the annual inﬂux of pilgrims ; but in general,
the mass is very poor, very ignorant and very superstitious.
The Holy City has no trade or commerce, and nothing to ex-
cite emulation among its population on topics calculated to
improve or meliorate their temporal position; and so far as I
am able to judge from personal inspection in a few cases, they
are for the most part, listless, indolent, and thoughtless, and
live on from year to year, in discontented poverty. You will
understand, however, and make allowance for it, that excep-
tions to this remark do exist ; for it is a fact not to be denied,

. Williams’s n Holy City," vol. 1i. p. 534L538.

