 

 

394 RAMESES THE GREAT.

 

Pharaoh 1 of the Exodus, are now among the established
facts of Egyptological science. The Bible and the
monuments conﬁrm each other upon these points, while
both are again corroborated by the results of recent

Siptah, ni a Amonmesés, un regne meme de vingt années; a plusforte
raison de cinquante ou soixante. Seul, le régne de Ramsbs II. remplit
les conditions indispensables. Lors meme que nous ne saurions pas
que ce souverain a occupé les Hébreux a la construction de la ville de
Ramses, nous serions dans l’impossibilité de placer Moise a une autre
époque, a moins de faire table rase des renseignements bibliques.”—
Radian/1c: pour sari/fr d Z’Htlrtoz'rc de la XIX Dynastic : F. C habas;
Paris, 1873; p. 148.

’ The Bible narrative, it has often been observed, invariably desig-
nates the King by this title, than which none, unfortunately, can be
more vague for purposes of identiﬁcation. “ Plus généralement,” says
Brugsch, writing of the royal titles, “sa personne se cache sous une
série d’expressions qui toutes ont 1e sens de la ‘grandc maz'son ’ on du
‘ grand palais,’ quelquefois au duel, des ‘ rt'enx grander maz'sons,’ par

rapport a la division de l’Egypte en deux parties. C’est du titre trés

\.—_|
= Per-

heureusement dérivé le nom biblique P/zamo donné aux rois d’Egypte.”
—fﬁ'5toire d’Egyptc, BRUGSCH : 2d edition, part i., p. 35 3 Leipzig, 1875.

This probably is the only title under which it was permissible
for the plebeian class to speak or write of the sovereign. It can

frequent ao,‘ la grande maison,’ ‘ la haute porte,’ qu’on a

scarcely have escaped Herr Brugsch’s notice that we even ﬁnd it liter-
ally translated in Genesis 1. 4, where it is said that “when the days
of his mourning were past, Joseph spake unto the Imus: of Pharaoh,
saying, If now I have found grace in your eyes,” etc. etc. If Moses,
however, had but once recorded the cartouche name of either of his
three Pharaohs, archaeologists and commentators would have been
spared a great deal of trouble.

 

 

