 

THE SECOND CA TARA CT. 45 7

 

precipice to the left—brings the opposite range to a like
end, and abuts on a similar plain, also scattered over
with detached peaks. The scene here is desolately
magniﬁcent. A large island covered with palms divides

on the ground, with a few capitals near them of clumsy Greek architec-
ture.”——Burckhardt’s Travels in Nuéz'a, 1819, p. 38.

In a curious Arabic history of Nubia written in the tenth century A.D.
by one Abdallah ben Ahmed ben Solai'm of Assouan, fragments of
which are preserved in the great work of Makrizy, quoted by Burckhardt
and E. Quatremere (see footnote, p. 329), there occurs the following
remarkable passage :—“ In this province (Nubia) is situated the city of
Bedjrasch, capital of Maris, the fortress of Ibrim, and another place
called Adwa, which has a port, and is, they say, the birthplace of the
sage Lokman and of Dhoul Noun. There is to be seen there a mag-
niﬁcent Birbeh”———(“ On y voit un Berba magniﬁque”).—Mémoirer Géo-
grapﬁz'que: sur Z’Egﬂpte, etc. E. QUATREMERE, Paris, 1811; vol. ii. p. 8.

If Adwa and Adda are one and the same, it is possible that in this
passage we ﬁnd preserved the only comparatively modern indication of
some great rock-cut temple, the entrance to which is now entirely covered
by the sand. It is clear that neither Aboo Simbel (which is on the oppo-
site bank, and some three or four miles north of Adda) nor Ferayg (which
is also some way off, and quite a small place) can here be intended.
That another temple exists somewhere between Aboo Simbel and Wady
Halfeh, and is yet to be discovered, seems absolutely certain from the
tenor of a large stela sculptured on the rock a few paces north of the
smaller temple at Aboo Simbel. This stela, which is one of the most
striking and elaborate there, represents an Egyptian gateway surmounted
by the winged globe, and shows Rameses II. enthroned, and receiving
the homage of a certain Prince whose name, as translated by Rosellini,
is Rameses-Neniscti-Habai. The inscription, which is in sixteen columns
and perfectly preserved, records the titles and praises of the King, and
states how “he hath made a monumental abode for Horus, his father,
Lord of Ha’m, excavating in the bowels of the rock of Ha’m to make

 

 

 

