 

 

 

 

726 APPENDIX.

 

1\’ez't/t.°—A woman draped, holding sometimes a bow and arrows,
crowned with the crown of Lower Egypt. She presided over war, and the
loom. Worshipped at Thebes.

[sin—A woman crowned with the sun-disk surmounted by a throne,
and sometimes enclosed between horns. Adored at Abydos. Her soul
resided in Sothis, or the Dog-star.

’ut.-——A woman curved so as to touch the ground with her ﬁngers.
She represents the vault of heaven, and is the mother of the Gods.

Hat/zor.-——Cow-headed, and crowned with the disk and plumes. Deity
of Amenti, or the Egyptian Hades. \Vorshipped at Denderah.

Pasld:—Pasht and Bast appear to be two forms of the same Goddess.
As Bast she is represented as a woman, lion-headed, with the disk and
urceus; as Pasht, she is cat-headed, and holds a sistrum. Adored at
Bubastis.

APPENDIX III.

THE RELIGIOUS BELIEF 01? THE EGYPTIANS.

DID the Egyptians believe in one Eternal God, whose attributes were
merely symbolised by their numerous deities ; or must the whole structure
of their faith be resolved into a solar myth, with its various and inevitable
ramiﬁcations? This is the great problem of Egyptology, and it is a
problem that has not yet been solved. Egyptologists differ so widely on the
subject that it is impossible to reconcile their opinions. As not even the
description of a temple is complete without some reference to this important
question, and as the question itself underlies every notion we may form of
ancient Egypt and ancient Egyptians, I have thought it well to group here
a few representative extracts from the works of one or two of the greatest
authorities upon the subject.

“The religion of the Egyptians consisted of an extended polytheism
represented by a series of local groups. The idea of a single deity self-
existing or produced was involved in the conception of some of the
principal gods, who are said to have given birth to or produced gods, men,
all beings and things. Other deities were considered to be self-produced.
The Sun was the older object of worship, and in his various forms, as the
rising, midday, and setting Sun, was adored under different names, and
was often united, especially at Thebes, to the types of other deities, as Amen

 

 

 

 

 

