 

 

 

____—__.———_—___ —_.4’

723 - ' APPENDIX.

 

Temples are dedicated, but of the religion under its more general aspects.
But neither in these Temples, nor in those which have been long known to
us, appears the One God of Jamblichus. If Ammon is ‘The First of the
First ’ at Thebes, if Phthah is at Memphis ‘ The Father of all Beings, with-
out Beginning or End,’ so also is every other Egyptian God separately
endowed with these attributes of the Divine Being. In other words, we
everywhere ﬁnd Gods who are uncreate and immortal; but nowhere that
unique, invisible Deity, without name and without form, who was supposed
to hover above the highest summit of the Egyptian pantheon. The Temple
of Denderah, now explored to the end of its most hidden inscriptions, of a
certainty furnishes no trace of this Deity. The one result which above all
others seems to be educed from the study of this Temple, is that (according
to the Egyptians) the Universe was God himself, and that Pantheism formed
the foundation of their religion.”—A. MARIETTE-BEY. Translated from
Itinéraz're de la Harrie Egyptc. Alexandria, 1872, p. 54.

“The Sun is the most ancient object of Egyptian worship found upon
the monuments. His birth each day when he springs from the bosom of
the nocturnal heaven is the natural emblem of the eternal generation
of the divinity. Hence the celestial space became identiﬁed with the
divine mother. It was particularly the nocturnal heaven which was
represented by this personage. The rays of the sun, as they awakened all
nature, seemed to give life to animated beings. Hence that which doubtless
was originally a symbol, became the foundation of the religion. It is the
Sun himself whom we ﬁnd habitually invoked as the supreme being. The
addition of his Egyptian name, Ra, to the names of certain local divinities,
would seem to show that this identiﬁcation constituted a second epoch in
the history of the religions of the Valley of the Nile.”—VISCOUNT E. DE
ROUGE. Translated from Notice Sommaire dc: 41101111”:an Egyptian: du
Louvre. Paris: 1873, p. 120.

That the religion, whether based on a solar myth or upon a genuine
belief in a spiritual God, became grossly material in its later developments,
is apparent to every student of the monuments. M. Maspero has the
following remarks on the degeneration of the old faith.

“ In the course of ages, the sense of the religion became obscured. In
the texts of Greek and Roman date, that lofty conception of the divinity which
had been cherished by the early theologians of Egypt still peeps out here
and there. .Fragmentary phrases and epithets yet prove that the funda-
mental principles of the religion are not quite forgotten. For the most part,
however, we ﬁnd that we no longer have to do with the inﬁnite and in-

 

 

