 

 

THE CATARACT AND THE DESERT: 301

 

of Amenemhat III. (circa B.C. 2800). So much is held to
be proven by certain inscriptions 1 which record the maxi-
mum height of the inundation at Semneh during various
years of that King’s reign. The Nile then rose in
Ethiopia to a level 27 feet and 3 inches in excess of the

‘ " The most important discovery which we have made here, and
which I shall only mention brieﬂy, is a series of short rock-inscriptions,
which mark the highest rises of the Nile during a series of years under
the government of Amenemhat III. and of his immediate successors.
. . . They prove that the river, above 4000 years ago, rose more than
24 feet higher than now, and thereby must have produced totally
different conditions in the inundation and in the whole surface of the
ground, both above and below this spot.”—Lepsius’s Lettersﬁmn Egypt,
eta, Letter xxvi.

“ The highest rise of the Nile in each year at Semne was registered
by a mark indicating the year of the king’s reign, cut in the granite,
either on one of the blocks forming the foundation of the fortress, or on
the cliff, and particularly on the east or right bank, as best adapted for
the purpose. Of these markings eighteen still remain, thirteen of them
having been made in the reign of Moeris (Amenemhat III.) and ﬁve in
the time of his next two successors. . . . We have here presented to
us the remarkable facts that the highest of the records now legible,
viz. that of the thirtieth year of the reign of Amenemhat, according to
exact measurements which I made, is 8.17 metres (26 feet 8 inches)
higher than the highest level to which the Nile rises in years of the
greatest ﬂoods 3 and, further, that the lowest mark, which is on the east
bank and indicated the ﬁfteenth year of the same king, is still 4.14
metres (13 feet 6% inches); and the single mark on the west bank
indicating the ninth year, is 2.77 metres (9 feet) above the highest
1evel.”—Lepsius’s Letter to Prq/Z'sror E/zrmlmrg. See Appendix to
the above.

 

 

