 

622 THEBES.

 

It may be that before the time of this Pharaoh
certain Temples were used also as royal residences. It
is possible to believe this of Temples such as Goornah
and Abydos, the plan of which includes, besides the usual
halls, side-chambers, and sanctuary, a number of other
apartments, the uses of which are unknown. It may
also be that former kings dwelt in houses of brick and

restore the civil government and military discipline. In his ﬁfth year,
he defeated the Maxyes and Libyans with great slaughter when they

. invaded Egypt, led by ﬁve chiefs ; and in the same year he had also to

repulse the Satu, or eastern foreigners, who had attacked Egypt. The
maritime nations of the west, it appears, had invaded Palestine and the
Syrian coast in his eighth year, and after taking Carchemish, a confedera-
tion of the Palm'afa, supposed by some to be the Pelasgi, RAM-am
or Teucri, Sakala'fa or Siculi, Tarzan or Daunians, if not Danai, and
Ua§a§a or Osci, marched to the conquest of Egypt. It is possible that
they reached the mouth of the eastern branch of the Nile. But Rameses
concentrated an army at Taha, in Northern Palestine, and marched back
to defend the Nile. Assisted by his mercenary forces, he inﬂicted a
severe defeat on the confederated west, and returned with his prisoners
to Thebes. In his eleventh year the Mashuasha or Maxyes, assisted-by
the Tahennu or Libyans, again invaded Egypt, to suffer a fresh defeat,
and the country seems from this period to have remained in a state of
tranquillity. . . . The vast Temple at Medinet Haboo, his palaces and
treasury, still remain to attest his magniﬁcence and grandeur; and if his
domestic life was that of an ordinary Egyptian monarch, he was as distin-
guished in the battleﬁeld as the palace. Treason, no doubt, disturbed his
latter days, and it is not known how he died ; but he expired after a reign
of thirty-one years and some months, and left the throne to his son, it is
supposed, about B.C. I 200." See Remarks upon the Cover qf flu: Granite
Sarcop/laga: of Rameses 111.: S. BIRCH, LL.D., Cambridge, 1876. ‘

 

 

