 

 

APPENDIX. .725

 

and men; the Soul of the Gods. Chief Deity of Elephantine and the
Cataracts.

Ra:—Hawk-headed, and crowned with the sun-disk encircled by an
asp. The divine disposer and organiser of the world. Adored throughout
Egypt.

Amen Ran—Of human form, crowned with a ﬂat-topped cap and two
long straight plumes; clothed in the schenti; his ﬂesh sometimes painted
blue. There are various forms of this god (see Footnote, p. 497), but he is
most generally described as King of the Gods. Chief Deity of Thebes.

K/zem:——-Of human form mummiﬁed; wears head-dress of Amen Ra;
his right hand uplifted, holding the ﬂail. The God of productiveness and
generation. Chief Deity of Khemmis, or Ekhmeem.

Osiris .-—Of human form, mummiﬁed, crowned with a mitre, and holding
the ﬂail and crook. Called the Good ; the Lord above all ; the One Lord.
Was the God of the lower world ; Judge of the dead ; and representative of
the Sun below the horizon. Adored throughout Egypt. Local Deity of
Abydos. ' _

Nq/E'r Atum.-—Human-headed, and crowned with the pschent. This
God represented the nocturnal sun, or the sun lighting the lower world.
Local Deity of Heliopolis.

T flat/z .-—In form a man, ibis-headed, generally depicted with the pen
and palette of a scribe. \‘Vas the God of the moon, and of letters. Local
Deity of Sesoon, or Hermopolis.

Sch—The “ Father of the Gods,” and deity of terrestrial vegetation. In
form a man with a goose upon his head.

Set.-——Represented by a symbolic animal, with a muzzle and ears like a
jackal, the body of an ass, and an upright tail, like the tail of a lion. Was
originally a warlike God, and became in later times the symbol of evil and
the enemy of Osiris.

Klmm:—-Hawk-headed, crowned with the sun-disk and horns. ls
represented sometimes as a youth with the side-lock, standing on a
crocodile.

Harm‘s—Horus appears variously as Horus, Horus Aroe'ris, and Horus
Harpakhrat (Harpocratcs), or Horus the child. ls represented under the
ﬁrst two forms as a man, hawk-headed, wearing the double crown of Egypt ;
in the latter as a child with the side-lock. Local Deity of Edfoo (Apollino-
polis Magna).

ﬂitzut:——A woman draped, and crowned with the pschent; generally
with a cap below the pschent representing a vulture. Adored at Thebes.

 

—-—-f -—- .-_- '_—. _'.. __—_ __—-.

 

 

