 

 

 

724 APPENDIX.

 

gods or else attendants upon them. Most of the gods were connected

with the Sun, and represented that luminary in its passage through the '

upper hemisphere or Heaven and the lower hemisphere or Hades. To the
deities of the Solar cycle belonged the great gods of Thebes and Heliopolis.
In the local worship of Egypt the deities were arranged in local triads:
thus, at Memphis, Ptah, his wife Merienptah, and their son Nefer Atum,
formed a triad, to which was sometimes added the goddess Bast or
Bubastis. At Abydos the local triad was Osiris, Isis, and Horus, with
Nephthys ; at Thebes, Amen Ra or Ammon, Mut, and Chons, with Neith ;
at Elephantine, Kneph, Anuka, Seti, and Hak. In most instances the
names of the gods are Egyptian; thus, Ptah meant ‘the Opener ;’ Amen,
‘the concealed ;’ Ra, ‘the sun’ or ‘ day ;’ Athor, ‘ the house of Horus ;’ but
some few, especially of later times, were introduced from Semitic sources,
as Bal or Baal, Astaruta or Astarte, Khen or Kiun, Respu or Reseph.
Besides the principal gods, several inferior or parhedral gods, sometimes
personiﬁcations of the faculties, senses, and other objects, are- introduced
into the religious system, and genii, spirits, or personiﬁed souls of deities
formed part of the same. At a period subsequent to their ﬁrst introduction
the gods were divided into three orders. The ﬁrst or highest comprised
eight deities, who were different in the Memphian and Theban systems.
They were supposed to have reigned over Egypt before the time of
mortals. The eight gods of the ﬁrst order at Memphis were—l. Ptah: 2.
Shu; 3. Tefnu; 4. Sch; 5. Nut; 6. Osiris; 7. Isis and Horus; 8. Athor.
Those of Thebes were—I. Amen-Ra; 2. Mentu; 3. Atum; 4. Shu and
Tefnu; 5. Seb; 6. Osiris; 7. Set and Nephthys; 8. Horus and Athor.
The gods of the second order were twelve in number, but the name of one
only, an Egyptian Hercules, has been preserved. The third order is
stated to have comprised Osiris, who, it will be seen, belonged to the ﬁrst
order."’-— G aide to the F in"! and Second Egyptian Rooms; Brit. Alums.
S. BIRCH, 1874.

The Gods most commonly represented upon the monuments are Phthah,
Kneph, Ra, Ammon-Ra, Khem, Osiris, Nefer Atum or Tum, Thoth, Seb,
Seti, Khons, Horus, Maut, Neith, Isis, Nut, Hathor, and Pasht or Bast.
They are distinguished by -the following attributes :-—

Pitta/t, or Plain—In form a mummy, holding the emblem called by
some the Nilometer, by others the emblem of Stability. Called “the
Father of the Beginning, the Creator of the Egg of the Sun and Moon.”
Chief Deity of Memphis.

’nop/z, Known, or Knoup/u's .--—Ram-headed. Called the Maker of Gods

 

 

 

 

 

