 

 

RAMESES THE GREA]? 395

 

geographical and philological research. The “ treasure-
cities Pithom and Raamses” which the Israelites built
for Pharaoh with bricks of their own making, are the Pa-
Tum 1 and Pa-Rameses” of the inscriptions. It was from
this last that Rameses II. set out with his army to
attack the confederate princes then lying in ambush near

‘ Pa-Tum, or the city of Tum, is identiﬁed by Brugsch with Hera-
cleopolis Parva, the chief town of the nome called by the Greeks
Sethro'ites. The French engineers, however, have given the name of
Pit‘oum to the great mound called Tel-el-Kebeer, situate on the same
ancient canal as Tel-el—Masroota (see Note 2). Tum, or Atoum, was
a solar god, and represented the unrisen sun. He preceded Ra in
the order of the universe.

' Pa-Rarneses. Authorities differ widely upon the site of this famous
city. M. Chabas supposes it to be Pelusium, while Herr Brugsch
identiﬁes it with Tanis, the modern San, the loan of the Scriptures.
The French engineers, however, ﬁnding at Tel-el-Masroota a granite
monolith inscribed with the cartouche of Rameses 11., long since gave
to that place the name of Rameses ; a conclusion which seems likely
to be borne out by the recent discoveries of M. Paponnet, the engineer
at present engaged in the construction of the new fresh-water canal
between Cairo and Suez. Some ﬁne sphinxes are reported of as already
exhumed from beneath a deep bed of alluvial deposit, and the temple
to which they led will probably have been discovered by the time these
pages are made public. The site of Tel-el—Masroota is in many
respects a likely one, being situate on the border of the ancient canal,
and in the immediate neighbourhood of a considerable lake, which
used formerly to be ﬁlled by the annual inundation. Pa-Rameses was
a port, and close to a famous piece of water called Shet—Hor, or the
Pool of Horus. Granted that Tel-el-Masroota and' Pa—Rameses are
one, another possible identiﬁcation suggests itself. The site of the
nome called by the Greeks Sethro'im has not yet been determined.

 

 

