 

 

BACK THROUGH NUBIA. 54:

 

city, when Pselcis (now Dakkeh) was but a new suburb
on the Opposite bank. The name of this ancient city is
lost, but it is by some supposed to be identical with the
Metacompso of Ptolemy.l As the suburb grew, the
mother town declined, and in time, the suburb became
the city, and the city became the suburb. The scattered
blocks aforesaid, together with the remains of a small
Temple, yet mark the position of the elder city.

writing of Thothmes 111., says, “ Son ﬁls et successeur, Amenemhat
III., ﬁt construire en face de Pselkis une forteresse importante.”——}Yz'st.
Andean: dz: Parable: dc Z’Orient. Chap. iii. p. I 13.

At Kobban also was found the famous stela of Rameses 11., called
the Stela of Dakkeh ; see chap. xiv. pp. 388-392. In this inscription, a
cast from which is at the Louvre, Rameses II. is stated to have caused an
artesian well to be made in the desert between this place and Gebel
Oellaky, in order to facilitate the working of the gold mines of those parts.

1 “ According to Ptolemy, Metachompso should be opposite Pselcis,
where there are extensive brick ruins. If so, Metachompso and Contra
Pselcis must be the same town.”——Topqgrap}zy of Thebes, etc.; Sir G.
Wilkinson. Ed. 1835, p. 488. M. Vivien de St. Martin is, however,
of opinion that the island of Derar, near Maharrakeh, is the true
Metachompso. See Le Noni dz l’Afrigue, section vi. p. 16!. Be this
as it may, we at all events know of one great siege that this fortress
sustained, and of one great battle fought beneath its walls. “The
Ethiopians,” says Strabo, “having taken advantage of the withdrawal of
part of the Roman forces, surprised and took Syene, Elephantine, and
Philae, enslaved the inhabitants, and threw down the statues of Caesar.
But Petronius, marching with less than 10,000 infantry and 800 horse
against an army of 30,000 men, compelled them to retreat to Pselcis.
He then sent deputies to demand restitution of what they had taken,
and the reasons which had induced them to begin the war. On their

 

 

