 

 

 

APPENDIX. 727

 

 

and Mentu. The oldest of all the local deities, Ptah, who was worshipped
at Memphis, was a demiurgos or creator of heaven, earth, gods and men,
and not identiﬁed with the Sun. Besides the worship of the solar gods,
that of Osiris extensively prevailed, and with it the antagonism of Set, the
Egyptian devil, the metempsychosis or transmigration of the soul, the
future judgment, the purgatory or Hades, the Kameler, the Arm/u or
Elysium, and ﬁnal union of the soul to the body after the lapse of several
centuries. Besides the deities of Heaven, the light, and the lower world,
others personiﬁed the elements or presided over the operations of nature,
the seasons, and eventS.”—Gm'de to the F in! and Second E gptz‘cm Rooms .-
Brit. Mm. S. BIRCH, 1874.

“ This religion, obscured as it is by a complex mythology, has lent itself
to many interpretations of a contradictory nature, none of which have been
unanimously adopted. But that which is beyond doubt, and which shines
forth from the texts for the whole world’s acceptance, is the belief in one
God. The polytheism of the monuments is but an outward show. The
innumerable Gods of the Pantheon are but manifestations of the One Being
in his. various capacities. That taste for allegory which created the hiero-
glyphic writing, found vent likewise in the expression of the religious idea ;
that idea being, as it were, stiﬂed in the later periods by a too-abundant
symbolism.”—P. PIERRET, Dictiwmaz're d’Arc/z. Egg/ﬁltering 1875. Trans-
lated from article on “ Re‘lzgz'on.”

“ This God of the Egyptians was unique, perfect, endued with knowledge
and intelligence, and so far incomprehensible that one can scarcely say in
what reSpects he is incomprehensible. He is the one who exists by
essence; the one sole life of all substance; the one single generator in
heaven and earth who is not himself engendered ; the father of fathers ; the
mother of mothers ; always the same ; immutable in immutable perfection ;
existing equally in the past, the present, and the future. He ﬁlls the
universe in such wise that no earthly image can give the feeblest notion
of his immensity. He is felt everywhere; he is tangible nowhere.”—G.
M ASPERO. Translated from Hz'stoz're Andean: des Pcup/es dc? l’Orz'ent.
Paris, 1876, chap. 1., p. 26.

“Unfortunately, the more we study the religion of ancient Egypt, the
more our doubts accumulate with regard to the character which must ﬁnally be
attributed to it. The excavations carried on of late at Denderah and Edfoo
have opened up to us an extraordinarily fertile source of material. These
Temples are covered with texts, and present precisely the appearance of two
books which authoritatively treat not only of the Gods to which these two

Q

 

 

