 

 

APPENDIX. ' 729

- _—,_,_,_., . 7 4. W7 __7 _. .iiﬁ

 

ﬁ_—__.—.f«-.-i —— —-—-—_.-..._

tangible God of ancient days ; but rather with a God of ﬂesh and blood who
lives upon earth, and has so abased himself as to be no more than a human
king. It is no longer this God of whom no man knew either the form or the
substance :—it is Kneph at Esneh; Hathor at Denderah; Horus, king of
the divine dynasty, at Edfoo. This king has a court, ministers, an army,
a ﬂeet. His eldest son, Horhat, Prince of Cush and heir-presumptive to
the throne, commands the troops. His ﬁrst minister Thoth, the inventor
of letters, has geography and rhetoric at his ﬁngers’ ends ; is Historiographer—
Royal; and is entrusted with the duty of recording the victories of the king and
of celebrating them in high-sounding phraseology. When this God makes
war upon his neighbour Typhon, he makes no use of the divine weapons
of which we should take it for granted that he could dispose at will. He
calls out his archers and his chariots; descends the Nile in his galley, as
might the last new Pharaoh ; directs marches and counter-marches ; ﬁghts
planned battles ; carries cities by storm, and brings all Egypt in submission
to his feet. We see here that the Egyptians of Ptolemaic times had sub-
stituted for the one God of their ancestors a line of God-Kings, and had
embroidered these modern legends with a host of fantastic details.”—
G. MASPERO. Translated from Hz'stoz're Ana'enne ties Peuple: dz: l’Orz'ent.
Paris: 1876, chap. i. pp. 50-51.

APPENDIX IV.
EGYPTIAN CHRONOLOGY.

“THE chronology of Egypt has been a disputed point for centuries.
The Egyptians had no cycle, and only dated in the regnal years of their
monarchs. The principal Greek sources have been the canon of Ptolemy,
drawn up in the second century A.D., and the lists of the dynasties extracted
from the historical work of Manetho, an Egyptian priest, who lived in the time
of Ptolemy Philadelphus, B.C. 285-247. The discrepancies between these lists
and the monuments have given rise to many schemes and rectiﬁcations of
the chronology. The principal chronological points of information obtained
from the monuments are the conquest of Egypt by Cambyses, B.C. 527, the
commencement of the reign of Psammetichus 1., B.C. 665, the reign of
Tirhaka, about B.C. 693, and that of Bokchoris, about B.C. 720, the syn-
chronism of the reign of Shishak I. with the capture of Jerusalem, about
B.C. 970. The principal monuments throwing light on other parts of the
chronology are the recorded heliacal risings of Sothis, or the Dog-star, in

 

5A

 

