 

 

7I2 ABYDUS AND CAIRO.

 

quartz, with an iris of rock-crystal enclosing a pupil of
some kind of brilliant metal. This treatment—of which

there are one or two other instances extant—gives to the,

eyes a look of intelligence that is almost appalling.
There is a play of light within the orb, and apparently a
living moisture upon the surface, which has never been
approached by the most skilfully made glass eyes of
modern manufacture.‘

' “ Enﬁn nous signalerons l’importance des statues de Meydoum au
point de vue ethnographique. Si la race Egyptienne était a cette
époque celle dont les deux statues nous offrent 1e type, i] faut convenir
qu’elle ne ressemblait en rien a la race qui habitait 1e nord de l’Egypte
quelques années seulement aprés Snefrou.”-—— Cat. du Murée dc Boa/aq.
A. MARIET’I‘E-BEY. P. 277 ; Paris, 1872.

Of the heads of these two statues Professor Owen remarks that
“the brain-case of the male is a full oval, the parietal bosses feebly
indicated ; in vertical contour the fronto-parietal part is little elevated,
rather ﬂattened than convex 3 the frontal sinuses are slightly indicated ;
the forehead is fairly developed but not prominent. The lips are fuller
than in the majority of Europeans; but the mouth is not prognathic.
. . . The features of the female conform in type to those of the male,
but show more delicacy and ﬁnish. . . . The statue of the female is
coloured of a lighter tint than that of the male, indicating the effects of
better clothing and less exposure to the sun. And here it may be
remarked that the racial character of complexion is signiﬁcantly mani-
fested by such evidences of the degree of tint due to individual exposure.
. . . The primitive race-tint of the Egyptians is perhaps more truly
indicated by the colour of the princess in these painted portrait-statues
than by that of her more scantily clad husband or male relative.”—Tize
EthnoZogy of Egypt, by PROFESSOR OWEN, C.B. journal of Ant/tropo-
lagz'ml Institute, vol. iv., Lond., 1874 3 p. 225, ct reg. .

 

 

*—-t *—_ ‘——I ﬂ.-

