 

 

 

RAMESES THE GREAT ' 405

 

_-.4-—- - -——i —__—r_ -ri ....,

hereditary sense, from his birth1 and during the lifetime
of his father, seems tolerably certain. That he should,
as a boy, have designed public buildings and superin-
tended their construction is extremely probable. The
ofﬁce was one that might well have been discharged by
a crown-prince who delighted in architecture, and made
it his peculiar study. It was, in fact, a very noble ofﬁce
-——-an ofﬁce which from the earliest days of the ancient
Empire had constantly been conﬁded to princes of the

‘M. Mariette, in his great work on Abydos, has argued that
Rameses II. was designated during the lifetime of his father by a
cartouche signifying only Ra- User-111a ,° and that he did not take the
additional Setp—m-Ra till after the death of Seti I. The Louvre, how-
ever, contains a fragment of has-relief representing the infant Rameses
with the full title of his later years. This important fragment is thus
described by M. Paul Pierret :——“Ramsés II. enfant, représenté assis
sur le signe des montagnes (la : c’est une assimilation au soleil levant
lorsqu’il émerge a l’horizon céleste. Il porte la main gauche a sa
bouche, en signe d’enfance. La main droite pend sur les genoux. Il
est vétu d’une longue robe. La tresse de l’enfance pend sur son
épaule. Un diadéme relie ses cheveux, et un uraeus se dresse sur son
front. Voici la traduction de la courte légende qui accompagne cette
représentation. ‘Le roi de la Haute et de Basse Egypte, maitre des
deux pays, Ra-User—Ma Selﬁ-m-Ra, viviﬁcateur, éternel comme le
soleil.”’ Catalogue dc la Salle Iﬂktorigue. P. PIERRE’I‘. Paris, 187 3,
p. 8.

M. Maspero is of opinion that this one fragment establishes the
disputed fact of his actual sovereignty from early childhood, and so
disposes of the entire question. See “ L’lzzsrriptzbn dézlimloz're du
Temple (2” A (lyrics, sm’z'z' d’mz Esmi sur la jewmse dc Scsoslrzlc.
G. MASPERO. 4° Paris, 1867. See also Chap. VIII. (footnote), p. 207.

 

 

