
Page-1
iaaacs ”a la at!
:33an ’es 0. .0

m

:;_L F,

:

MEKKDHWM 0F SEN LﬁSaT AEYBQSL
1:1174‘.

170 m2
Page-2
o," Sui I. ABYDOS. 4. Rsule. 55

of the adjoining village, Anibal. al-Haﬁfunah, i”: wanna of ﬁlm buxiad
Ynsgilviv tbs last portion of the mama may refer to Osiris, whose grave
here actuated so many pilgr’ .1115, and Madﬁln (111550.) may be a translation
of the: old. nuns of tha tsmplmquuﬂer 92‘ Abydcs. In 5113's c! 3113 mm:
lavish exvsuditure of Elma. money, and labour, than excavamrs failed to
ﬁnd either the spring mamionad by Strabo or the tomb of Osiris. and yei
the iailer must lie close in the part of the ruins nailed Kam 3181115611
near t-lm lmly bill I)! Abyrlos an often muniiouad in the inscriptions.
Digs-ﬁesta derives she name Mmaouium from that 01’ $52 founder Sail
Barman-ma or Manama—1'51. This, however,‘ 8 undoubtedly Wroné

Lapsiﬁs was the ﬁrst to show that the Egyptian worn Ileana-w ﬁg 1‘

88M, ayplieri to any Ian-g6 mnnumenc or memorial whether agchicec-
turn} or plastic lad ma Greeks t1: 111:3"!le every palatial 13.. mature 9!
i113 anaienc Egypt isms as a Mmm’vmv (Hemnonion) or palace of Helmet;
Perhaps they ﬁrst ha 5111 the name ﬁennu given to aha colossal ﬁgures of
Amonlmtep III. at Thehea (p 153) 3.1111 worn aliranieﬁ by its resemblancn
in sound lo the 111111113 {If inc 5011 of Ema who fall before Troy; henna
they called {as ﬁgures. afterwards so xelebrated, slatuea of 3160111911. ané
aw 31311111011331, or palacse of she saws hem, in name of the large memorial
buildings desca- ibed as Man" .11. Tha {3'1 ‘bat lbs 361161135 did not apply
this name to all the great bui‘ lugs of Egypt, 5111 only :0 some of the
temples of W. Tube: and m the summary of Seal at Abydas. may no
explained by the anypouiiion that, in (she ﬁrm) of ﬁlm Pixarauhs 11161111111111
Sngs monopolised the apithe: of Kennu, Just as the int-tress of the (3011-
gum-01- in Lemma in known as sha’ ewe: par szcelkme among the
numerous towers a! that city. The 25mph: at Sam immune. known as 6.1m
Mamnonium or Palace at 19121111105 in the Alexandrina period, and a
natural consequence was the conversion of the name A626 into the simi-
larly sounding Abydns or Abydux, the name of a iowu of Twas 1111 elm
1353155119111) net fat from the burial‘piace sf Mammal By degrees the
Asian: hex-€1,301: of Tim-anus and E113 uni ally (1f Prism Laum.1:. 153).
was convartmi into an Ethic i311, and the livaly imagination 0H9 Grseks
transferred the Asiaﬁe legen s to Egypt and adapted them to Egyptian
conditions. Thus they reinteﬁ that ’I‘ilhouus sent an Ethiopian army to aid
his son against 'I‘x-ny 'lixem: Bullliex's, howuvsr. ham-1i of mu deaib of
Hemmm a: A‘nylio: in Upper Egypt and retraced their stew after hang-
ing their garlanﬂa on the acacias in the holy grove a: l'ae Memnonium.
Birds warn fabled to have sprung {rem ma ashan of Edema-.011, and may"
peared on cereain days every year, removeé all impurities from‘ .Ais gram,
dipped tueir wings in iha Aesopos. which ﬂows into him Proponiis at Cy-
ticus, 13.1111 Bprinklad i‘na gnwa with the wniar A! a. iatar Aim“ these birds
wem 5141i 60 come from Ethiopia: Finally it was “sewed that 1119 EgypA
clan Abydos haé been founded by columsls from its Asiatic nmasake.

Tim Memnonium of Abydoa is not an ordinary divine or religious
temple Ilka these of Dania-rah? Kamak, and Edfu, but is rather one
of 12hr) series of neyxliclual auxintunﬁag of which mention is made M.
p, 170 of Baedeker’s Lower Egypt The numerous representations
and inscriptions that cover its walls are mostly of a very general
nature». They tell us, however, that the builéing they adorn was
pn‘mnrily intemicd for funereul 111111110503. As already xnenticnaé,
the boéies of numerous primes and grandam were bmught haze m
participate in the blessings that were supposed to emanate from the
sacred. tomb of Osiris. The Yharaohs nowhere offered sacriﬁces to
the manna of their forefathers more gladly than at; Abydos, and
prayers wane put up here to this Osiris—kings of the an" ant 01186
Page-3
56 2309125 4. ABYDOS. Memnonéum

of the Examining just. 3,9 at the neighbouring Pmiemn’ia divine honours
were 3mm it) the deem-need princes of Macedonian ari n. w— It was
natural enough ihat in a sanctuary devoted i0 purposes of thin kind
no boisterous festivals or ceremnnies should take place, and we are
not surprised to learn that neither singer nor ilute~player nor lute-
player was allowed. within its walls.

The great bin ang- of Abydos, at ﬁrst sight, impresses neither
by its size nor by in beauty. The walls consist of ﬁne—grained
limestone, while a harder material (sandstone) has been selected for
the columns, architmves, door—posts, and other human-bearing
parts. The foundations are newhere more than 41/; ft. thick, and
the yiatfmms on which the eulumns rest are equally shallvw.
Numemns bin-3kg have became «lissjaimec'i, owing, ae Mariette. has
shown, t0 time giving way of the slow-mile of aycamore wood
with wlviel; H»: were fastened. The inscriptions of.“ Sell and the
earlier (mes m‘ l; . {m and successur show great purity of style, but
this quality dis pears in the later tents of the latter. It but: been
eatablishué that s. Skﬂﬂtllﬂiy of some importance stood at Abydos
even in the days of the ancient empire, and indeed we hear of its
restoratiun in that remote epoch. Our witness in a stele, now in
the Louvre, on which Ameniseneb, a priest and architent, who lived
in the reign of Usertesen 1. [12¢ Dyu.), records the feet that he
renewerl the colouring and inscriptions in the temple of Abydos
from top [:0 lwtlmn. This probably mean; the building, of which
some fragments, belonging to the 12th Dynasty, are seen to the N.
of the Memnonium (see p, 67). Under the llykaos the ancient
sanctuary was anti 1y neglected, and the wily reconi here of the
18th Dytiagiy, whi was almost wholly abacr‘bed by its wars anti
foundatium in Timbes, is an inscriptiun of Tutmes Ill. Seti1.,
hewever, cf the £9131 Dynasty, built an entirely new temple, anti
his son Ramses II. comyleted the adornment that his father left
unﬁnished. T56 gmunﬁ-plan of the structure 13 Lumen-.13, and differs
materially from that of other great Egyptian Wrxqiles. Among the
features, however, which it has in common with these are the
pylnns, a ﬁrst and second foruncourt, liypostyla halls, 3nd a sane--
tnary. The last, however, is much more richly articulated than
usual. The wing m the S. (to the left on entering) forms an no-
curate right angle with the main ediﬁce. The whole structure i! in
the shape of a mum’s square.

We enter the temple fmm the RE. The ﬁrst pylon and the
walls mmimiug (taunt A are in ruins. Conn? B, which opens tothe
S. on she mingle player, is in better preaermtion. The sons and
linugixtera (if Remixes ll. were representeé on the right and left walls,
but the ﬁgures and inscription have been almost eﬁaced. In spite
of the m . that iii the inscriptions and representations here refer to
Rsmsea 153.. if; hm been proved through the alieemery by Mariette
of 3 dove-mil {we wove) bearing the name of Set I. '
Page-4
of an; I. ABYDOS. 4. Route. 57

letter founded this N. part of the temple and 136i: mainly the de-
coration of it to big son. w Tho facade of the temyle is 03' very
unusual form. A row of 12 limestone columns stand a short «li—
atanee in advance of the temple wail, forming with it a kind of
promos. in the time of Set} soven doors, corrosyondlng to the seven
chambers of the sanctuary (see below), yierceﬂ the real-«wall, which
was adorned with a cornice of its own. 911 ceremonial onoaoions
the processions in honour of the king seem to have entered by the
door to the extreme left; the next served for processions to Ptsh,
the third for Harmnohig, the fourth for Amman, tho ﬁfth for Osiris,
the sixth for Iain7 amt} the seventh for Horus. Bananasg however,
walled up six of these floors, leaving the central one alone, the
decoration of which had been begun by Seti, as the main entrance
to the temple. A Small ﬂoor in the Horus gateway, to the extreme
right, is still open. "he pillars bear huge ﬁgured raprosentations
and a few inscriptions, which refer to Seti I. as deceased and intros
tines Ramses II. in the company of Ammon—Ra, Osiris, Horns, and
other gods. The hieroglypliica inform us that Runses erected this
part of the temple in honour of his fathery one phrase, for institute1
reading: "Eh-3 king of Upper and Lower Egypt, the Lord of the
Barbarians (Nine Nations), to make great the name of his father’.
The entrance—wall behiml the pillars conﬁrms this pious ﬁlial wish
beyond the shadow of a. doubt. In the wall, to the left of the main
ontranoe, is a large; and consyiouons inscription in 9'5 vertical lines,
which, arts: the lists of kings, must be calleé the most important
in Abydos. it consists of two parts. In the ﬁrst Ramses relates
how, oncoming to Abydos, he found his father's work unﬁnished
and resolved to carry it. to a. conclusion The grandees rejoiced at
this I'esu‘mtion, nmi workmen anﬁ artists of every kiml were surn—
moneri to aid in the task. In the second part Pharaoh recalls to his
consciousness all the honours he had paid and the gifts he had
presented to his father. The gods show him favour on account of
his piano ants and advance, one by one, to bestow upon him the
richest gifts of heaven: strength, faarlessness, victory, immortality,
etc. A picture accompanying the inscription represents Ramses,
with a crown on his head, offering sacriﬁces to the goddess Ma and
to n triad consisting of Osiris, Isis. and his father Seti 1., who takes
the place ofHorns. Recently tiaoeased? Seti‘appeart as the youthful
god? tho victorious opponﬁnt of the might of Death, who will (won
become Osiris, after subdning all his enemies beneath his fer-t. On
one of the yillars, indeod, Soti is already described as the ‘royal
Osiris'. The instriptiun dates from the ﬁrst year of the single
rule of Ramses and from the time of his ﬁrst journey to Thebes,
when be erected statues of his father in the city of Ammon
and in Memphis. At Abydos he first undertook the restoration of
his father’s monumental structures in the neoropolis, on the spot
annually sacred to Osiris Uunefer. After mention 3 ﬁner r {ora-
Page-5
58 4. Route ABYDGS. Memnonium

tions, the inscription mummies as follows, with special referenca’w
this temple: ‘For in, while the temple of Karma—men (he. Semi I.)
was still building both back sné from; Seti ascended to heaven,
before his Memnoninm {Mennn) was completed. The columns had
not yet been placed upon their bases, the statue lay on the ground
and was not yet ﬁnished off, when he (Seti) became acquainted
with the tomb {the ‘goisien room’, the principal chamber of Seri’a
tornh at Bi‘nén el-Mulﬁk), etc. Then said His Majesty to the seal-
bearer by his side: Summon the mnrtims, the military commanders,
and their fellows. and also the whole multitude of arnhiwess and
librarians. When these were conducted before His Majesty, greasing
their noses in the dust and their knees to the earth, they broke out
into rejoicing and smelled that ground (he. prostratod themselves).
They raised their arms, praising His Majesty, and prayml to this
henignent deity, eeiebrsﬁng his perfection’. Then follow emphatic
expressions of worship, addressed to the king. ‘Then spoke His
Majesty uneo them end said: i summoned you before me on account
of a plan that hm enigma my mind. i have seen the buildings of
the noeropoiia and the tombs that are a“. Ahydos, and also those
who have to work there. Truly nothing has been restored since the
time of their lord unto ths present day. But when a son ﬁnds him-
self on the throne of his father, shall he not. renew the monument
(Manna) of his begetier? . . . From childhood until new I have
been a prince. He gave me the earth as a gift, and while I was yet
in the egg the greaé ones of the earth prostrated themselves before
me. . . . 1 have called my father in a new life in golﬂ (he. as a
stain-a) in the ﬁrsﬁ year of my" exnlmtion. { have given orders that
his temple be adorned and I have made sure his possession of the
lam} . . . I have oﬂered him sacriﬁces. . . . And now, when his
building stood in my power. I watched overall {he lahonrs connected
with it . . . . I sninrgeé and renewed his palatial structure. I did
no: neglect his fonndations, as wicked children do, who do not
respect their father . . . I built new the walls of the temple of
my hegehter. )1 presented hefore him the man whom 1 hm selected
to supnriniemi the works, , . I errant-ad pylnns in from grit, {have
covered his house with clothing (nonlptnres) I have adorned. its
columns and yrovided stones for the foundations. A ﬁnished work
was the monument, doubly as giorions as at ﬁrst. It is {named} sfoer
my name and sitar the name of my father, for, as the son, so is she
the fnther’. In the following sentences Ramses is praised as a model
son and the highea: gifts of the gods are assured to him. ‘Sinee the
sun—god Ra there has never been a son who has accomplished what
thou hut. . , . Thou, than war-heary than renewest one monument
in {he genie after arxmher, awarding to the onmmmii of thy father
Ra’. The whole world obeys him and brings him aﬁeﬁnga. Arbor
the grandecs have ﬁnished their oration, he once more orders the
ofﬂoials, masters, artists, labourers, and all others-engageﬂ in the
Page-6
0f Seti L ABYDOS. 4. Route. 59

building operations to construct the sanctuary of his father in the
nenropolis and to hew out his statue. Sacriﬁces and festivals are
richly provided. for. The rest of the inscrlytimr assumes more and
more the charactm of a hymn, like those menllmiea at p.253xm6
elsewhu’are.

The above will sufﬁce to Show the ﬁlial yiety, with which Ramses,
it least in the earlier part of his reign, strove w complcle and rem
store the wark of his father But the remains of the building con~
arr-acted by him near the Temple of 392i 3: Abydoe (p. 67) prove
that he also founded a large Memnonium for himself in the district
sanctiﬁed by the tomb cf Osiris.

INTERIOR. or run: TEMPLE.
i. The Hypastyle Halls and the Seveﬂfbld Sancluary.

From the Prouaos, containing the above inscriplimz, two doors
only rmw lead into the interior of the temyle: the main entrance
in she middle amt! a narrow door to the extreme right. Tim Finn
Hypostyle 390m (Pl. 0)? a. lmxg but narraw apartmcml, makes-
:3. solemn and imyosing impression. The roof, part of which has
fallen in, is sapported by ‘24 columns, arranged in two ruws and in
groups of four. The slender shafts are surmounted by capitals in
.5110 form of payyms buds. Sari I. did not complete the plastic (14%
aeration of the mom. Ramses began new sculptures instead of those
begun by his father, apparently forgetting the great ﬁlial piety he
arrogares to himself in the above- quoted inscription (p. 58)
Whether it. was shat the 293.1 of the son abated along with his grief
{or his further, or ihal. ilueyriesily anulyto rs thought; it better to male—
brate a. living prince rather than a dead one, the fact remains that
it is Ramses alone who is here depicted and the temple itself is
simply called the temple of Abydos, net, as in the earlier inscrlpm
lions, that of Rumma—msn (is. Semi). The sculptures preserved here
are of meélocre werkmenshlp, and the inscriprions and represen-
rations1 almost wholly dealing will: Ramses and his reception of
gifts from the different gods, are generally uninteresting Men for
the scholar. 0n the right wall, near the second chamber, is a series
of gods, consisﬁng of Ra, Shir [ﬁne giver {If all Kielight) and his
sister Tefnut {giver of health), Seb (giver of life and strength).
Osiris, Horus (giver of every victory), Isis (giver of life and strength),
tlw grca‘: god Aphem (Anubis), and Nut, who imparts the fulness of
salvation, m... The six lists of the homes of Egypt, on the lower part
of the walls, are also interesting. As elsewhere, the districts are
represented as bearded male ﬁgures with the emblem. of the Home
(a plume of surveyed groundg 333E] and a standard bearing the
symbol (1f the gym-la! «listrirt. As the, lisrs here have no annota—
tinns, they are ofless valne than those at Demlerah ami elsewhere.
They indlcate that it was customary for all the districts of the land
to pay their vows and bring gifts to the (250615 Qfa. spears} 5: “31‘3“
Page-7
60 Route 4. ABYDOS. Memﬁonium

The Second Emoatyle Room (Pl. D) rascmblos the ﬁrst, but, is
higher, deeper, and in all respects of more importance. Sell 1. be~
gan it and his artists execut’sd both the architectural details and
the plastic adornment with the carefulnaae and purity of style that
marks all their work. The son has here left unchanged the Home
of the father. which occurs at ovary point, Three rows of swolvu
columns ouch support the architmve, on which real. the rooﬁng
slabs, and are arranged in six groups, excl: of six columns. Be—
tween the groups access is aﬂorded to the vaulted chambers in the
wall facing us as we enter. The ﬁrst two of the three rows of mi—
ums hove gapyrus-vbnd capitals. Beyond the second row the ﬂoor of
the temnle is consiéera'nly raised, forming a platform irom which
the vaulteé chambers are entered. Upon i‘nia platform stands the
third row of columns, the cylindrical shafts of which are entirely
destitute of capitals, but. hear huge blocks of stone forming an uln-
cuo for the snpporl of the arclxitravc, ’l'liiis gnaculiuriiy is simply ex-
plained by tho fact. that ilie columns in the tliinl row are shorter
than the others, owing to their raised platform, so that the archizect,
by omitting the capital, brings the abacus of all on the same level
and avoids tho unpleasam cifoct which (ﬁller-em, elevations of the
architmve would make on 1,113 eye. When yrocessions 0f worshippers
tiled in and out, performing pious ceremonies, this. hall must have
presented a very imposing spectacle. Inscriptions below the open-
ings leading from tho ﬁrst hall to the second inform us they were
formerly ﬂllcti with doors of bronze (comm). Tho inscriptions 3m}
rcyreéc’niatlons on the walls and columns repeat themselres weari—
iomely and are of little general interest. Here: we see the king re—
ceiving from the gods such attributes of the royal dignily as tho
crooked sword or the scourge and. crook (symbols, pcrlraps, of llw
royal duties ofinccntive on the one side and. restraint outing other);
were we behold him offering bumc—oﬂ‘erings to a single god, a
triad, or a group of gods. if the king is receiving gifts, lie is
generally represented on his knees; when he sacriﬁces, he lows
slightly forward, holding the llnrnl-olrcring in the loii haml abrui
librarians in ﬁlm right, Sometimes he is cranial}, ranniving ﬁle bless—
ings of the gods; he appears thus in the ﬁne picture on the N. Wall
of the second room. with Isis, Amemi, and Nephthys in front, and
the goddess Ma am}. Renpol behind. His proﬁle is evidently a faith”
ful lilac-mass and is everywhere portrayed with great ariistic skill.
The unusual handsomenass of this king is still recognisable in his
mummy at Gizeh. The sacriﬁcial implements should also b5 noted.
(Sensors like that in his hand have been found, but in bronze, while.
his were doubllosa of gold. They are in tho form of an arm? ﬁlm
hand holding a. small vessel from which the smoke of the intense
arises. The handle shows the carefully executed sparrow bank's
Emmi of Horus. ’l‘llo lib-anion vessel was in the farm of a golden lo-
tus ﬂower, will: small vasss rising allow zlic open co 1111, fr which
Page-8
of 3:25 I. A‘BYDOS. 4: Ram. 61

esgemes were poured out in honour of the grad. The framework of
each scene, the mnuhiings vseparatiug the lines of hierogiyphics,
and the hieraglyphio symbols themselves are ail executed with in—
imitable care. The aide-walls of this hall, to the right and left, and
the walls near the gates leading to the chapels, bear symboiic re-
presentations, like those in the that ball, of the names of Upper
and Lower Egypt.

At a. considerable intervai, beyond the thiré row of columns in
the Eecond hall, and on the same levei with them, is a series of
SEVEN VAULTED Clummma or Cramps, fox-111mg i115 ﬁanctunry of
the Memnonium. The metal doors with which they were once uiosed
have long since d‘iiaypeax‘m. In the piex‘s separating the doors are
rectanguiar niches, which probabiy contained images eithe: of the
deities to whom the chapeis were dedicated or of King Seti. Each
chapel is vaulted and the vaults are profusciy and beautifully de-
corateﬁ with stars and the name Ra-ma~meu (prmnomen of Seii i..:1
ﬁedicatcry inscriptions on three of the vaults prove that Osiris must
be regaxded as the chief divinity of the temple. It must be noted
that the r0015 of these chapels are not vaulted in the strict archi-
tectural signiﬁcation of that: word; they consist: rat‘iu‘xr of Monks of
stone out in a rmmd fashion anti crowned by s. key—stone which is
hollowed out in the interior. The chapels were dedicated {beginn—
ing from the left) to the king, Ptah, Earmachis, Amman, Osiris,
Isis, and Hams. Ail tha chief ﬁgures in the Osiris cycie of gods are
reyresented here with the cxceytion of Seth, the antagonist of Osiris,
and his wif Nephthys. With Shem is associated the king who has
become Oszria (see p. [17). Ptah, who becomes Sekar-Osiris when
regarded in his relations to life beyond the grave, is of course re—
presentmi. In the place of honmlx in the minim, of the seven is Am-
man, ‘who is the may one anti whose years ﬂourish amcng the gods’,
who is ‘loftier in his ideas than any other god’, ‘to whose feet the
3min 4:!3‘1‘7'1, recognising their iord and master”, who is ‘iord of
eternity and cream: of the nnending’. of whom indeed {ha other
gods may be regaréed as attributes. To the right Mid ieit 0f Aim
men are two groups of three. To the right are Osiris, Isis, and H.0-
ms; ‘10 the left are Ptah the primavai, the 10rd of the past; Har—
machis, who announces the. new day rising in the East, whe strug-
glé-a for this Timmy of life over death, and assures the future
triumyh of good over evil-2 and King Sﬁti, the temporal incarnation
of divine grower in the wesent, in the sphere of human act-hi '.
To these goé‘ls, conceived as filling these chapeis with their prea
sauce, were brought the mummies, to be sanctiﬁed fur their eternal
twine. The way to the (iiﬁ‘erem chapels was indicated or: the very
threshohi of the temple, where Seti 1., as we have seen, constructed
seven doors in the rear-wall of the promos. Most of these, 210w—
mer, were closed by Ramses, probably to intensify and preserve the
secret and mysteriws character of the temple. But ah gaths the
Page-9
6? Route 4. ABYDOS. 34'me

«iiﬁerent chapels are still easily distinguishable, partly from the
plan of the building, partly by tho reyreaentations and inscriptions;
for from each of the seven doors a procasaimml approamh led through
the two hygrostylc halls straight; to tho anagram of the correspomi—
ing ahapal; while the representations on the columns ﬂanking each
approach refer only to the deity ta whom the chapel at the and of it
was dedicated. In the vaulted ahapels, amid the; fumes of in»
sense an& the murmnn‘ng of muﬂled singing, waiteai the minim
tering priests of the sanctuary, pouring cut libationa m6. uttering
benedictions as the processions wound along the aisles, either
bearing a, mummy to be sanctiﬁed 01' consisting of a group (if privi-
legeé laymen bringing offerings to the Osiris goas for this soul’s
welfare. of the, <1eceased.~——The dedications are insaribed on the
clear-posts in the traditional forms and with little variaﬁon. Similar
vaults new: at Benihasan and Dér el-Balgri, and also in the lids of
the sarccphagi in the museum at Gizeh. In each case the monuw
meats ta which may belong serve funerary purpcses; the shape or
the vault is, however, intenéed to represent the vault of heaven,
which the Osiris—soul has to traverse, and they are usually demrated
with stars. An inscriptien presarved on one of that vaults of the
summary informs m; that the Pharash erected this structure for his
father Osiris in the interior of the temple of Ra—ma~men and ﬁttell
up the chapel to resemble the heaven of the ninefold deities, imi-
tating its constellations, etc.

The. internal ﬁtting up and appearance of the sharpen vary little. A; @113
miédle place had to be assignea to Amman, the chief of theegods, is was
necessary 1:) mark the sﬁocin! dignity of Osiris, in when: inde She temple
wss consecrated. by ma 131g his chairs} {P}. d) wiéar than the others. The
rear-walls of the latter- are, in each case, cceupied by two niches with a
luluwﬂnwer haiwaan than, from which riaea ills 313mm: farm of Quirk»,
symbolising the blogseming of ihe 50111 in a ‘33:; pin spham’. In the back-
wall 0! the sanctuary ol‘ Osiris, however. is & cor, leading to assmcmm
(Pl. E) which, including the adjoining smaller columnar! clmmberﬂ, is as wide
as the whale sanctuary. This was tha scene of the mysmrluus rites cole-
braieﬁ in honour- of the Divine-Deceased (Osiris, whose EBEIS even the Omsk
Harodoius shrank {rum breathing) by the motor-ix: priests of the highest class
(860 Baudzirer‘s Lower 1'70pr pr 12$), The inscription! in (In: chapel; inform
us shat the priestly proceesiunsz‘, which came from all parts of the kingdom;
made a complete circuit af the chapel, keeping to the right wall on ensuing
and returning to the: door along the 16!: wall Thirtyusix riMs or csmmunias
had to be performed {hiring this circuit, First came a recitation to prove the
wnrthineas of the wax-shipper- lo rpm-(melt the holy place and the image Gf
the god. Then the: veil was liftad The worshipper wu next ulaweﬁ to
witness the invertimre o! the god by the prieass with his ﬁllets, garments,
ornaments. 211$ the attributes of his divine power. Nut bsfure ehls was
accomplisksd did the vilgrlm prostrata himself in adaralio=,briaging drink—
oﬂ'erings, llhations, and burnt-offerings. The hymns to be snag it these
ceremnnias are all prescribmi, am! the pictorial reprusentations show haw
the god» wan) to be clcthad and in what attitudes they wan: m be war
shipped, Possibly All than :itas were performeﬂ only by the priests of

 

r In “as lnscripllnns the (axgvrcaslon invariably uuurl for thc ymcewimxa
in the King, wbu is ragardad as the ambudimni and representative of t“
his subjects.
Page-10
of so: I. AB'YDOS. 4. Rattle. 63

the ienuple. in may nus-s than chap-31:4 am we 531511 to have: admitted more
man the hauls of me depuisiions from other pints of Egyps. Great weight
is laid upon the sacred number sewn, as shown in the number of the
chapels ihumsolves and in tho suvsn heads of sparrow~hﬁwks rcpmsuntzd
in each. The» the king should appear 58 aka seventh objseﬁ of worship
along with six gods is undoubtedly unusual; but it. mxy be exylsinsd by
Lisa inci than Seti built ii)»; ssvanth 4):»st, not for the adoration of bim~
ssh“ while alive, bui for a future period when he hopad so he msrgeﬁ in
Osiris. Neuter Sell :50: his son could Meir! the interment of their mum—
mies near the: royal maidens» (:f Thebes; but it may be assumed that their
earthly remains rsceivzd consaeration a: Abydos, and that the Mamnonium
0f Seti is to be regarded as s cenotnph, in which 1213 Name of Pharaoh,
as a symbui 0f the king himsalf, was to be honoured uri preserved. Tim
Fhusohs of tbs sari! 2m ire possessed similar monuments heral Thess
however, {all into decay using the Hyksos period; and Bell was enablei
so do what unfavourable timsn had. hindemd his pmdecessors from doing
m i a. to build a new and «354137 Memnoaium, in which a place was re-
served, near the tomb of Osiris, fur the Nam-3: or his royal succsiors. In
the Arches shove the niches in this rear-wt.“ of the chapels are amoral
repxasenmtions of the king oﬁ‘ering his Name, symbolized by the cutauche
or ring C)! which surrounded royal names. In this way Abydoa
came 80 be the most important pie-m: for 2h» pmson‘ntiaa of lists of kings.
Tim columnzd aisle leading to Seti‘s Chapel (1’). 3} contains inscripzioas
and rapsesenia‘iions relating to the king alone and showing us his relation—
ship to this goxis in its proper light. (in the wallerbup door 1:) tin: ﬁrst
hail wo ass ’i‘hoth, the Reason 01- Intelligence? the god of the sciences sud
of historical records, alleging a swriﬁce in (will. of Ex: image of the king
“be lunar nnicrlunnluly much damaged} The) inscription sends ‘1, Thom,
the dweller in Abyacs, some in thee on account of thy greatness nmi my
glory. For the sake of thy sauciiiy as king, for the sake of my might
and thy constancy on earth, and to make ihae grsst‘, sins w 0:: the coi-
ninns of the ﬁrst hall the king is represented as sacriﬁcing and rsceiving
the attributes of the kingdom from Tholh, Anubis Apheru, Hows the son
of Isis, and Henmutef, the high priest of Abydosi The pnimings on ma
8. wall of the same hall show as the king as a boy, held in the arms of
Isis and suckled a‘» the divine breasis of ﬁlm ﬂamers. They admit him
so the place Of Home, that in» may innmasa in strength and nscand His
ibrune of Osiris M s mam, Father, the queen-deity of He npolis in Aby—
dos. calls herself the moths;- ol’ his benuiy, and says to h . ‘Thou hast
bass. nourished by my milk‘ than who art mini-net} will: thu crown of Up or
Ewpt‘. Thu Kathm- of Denderah calls herself his muse, who raised er
arms «2 embrace his beauty. On the left side of the aver fsrihesi 106116
left. also leading to ﬁne ascend hall, we 32.2. the king, waving a balmel,
whim That): 9mm; our his head the. signs of life and dsminion. To the
right: the king sppesrs with the richly decorated royal crown, holding the
5:49er Md scourge in his hands. The priest Henmutef burns incense ban
lore him, and. ﬁlm Nile brings him gifts, of which he is tbs proéucsrl The
king has new 955563; from €115 bay Hui-us to the man Gsiris; ilenmnlef
says: ‘I burn incense to than and in) thy name, 0 Osiris‘ King Basinsmen‘.
The words put in iha mouth of the Nile are: ‘1 bring to than in my arms
the: nuperﬂuityss an oﬁering, 0 King, lord of boll; worldsi‘ On the sides
of the columns facing the aisle landing to the royal «221::sz are ruprssenled
Anubis~Aphuru banding in the king the attributes of censlancy and might;
Thom, either {waving the Water of life and dominion over the king, or
addressing him in set speech, with a rail in his left. hand; Hanmuiai‘ ex-
horiing him, sacriﬁcing to him3 and remixing him this sign of Approval
F‘s-5,, thus reminding us of tbs passage in Diodems which tells us that.
it was the duty of the prieséa to praise and warn the kings, The king
lass instituted Fustivals in honour of Bows, and Hams in miurn throws
him ”16 symbol a! life. Isis, holding in her hand the lotus-3433‘. enlwinsd
by aha ‘u‘i'Eﬁs—serpaut, also invasis him with life, which have as else»
Wham inciuéed iii‘s beyond the grlwe, whix‘h this Egyptians tanned. the
inn life; On the 84 wall of the second hall Sail is repre "ed
Page-11
64 Roma 4, ABYDOS. Memnanium

(m the tiara-Hie {if Osiris. in from oi‘ him stands Horus. ‘ibe avengdr of
his father“, invtmii‘ng him will! immortaiiiy, While behind is the jackaL
head _ Aisha“! (Anubis), ready to protect him from (Hunger, Above the
dedisatm-y inscription; Thom, ma god of divine sinquewfe, promises Osiris
Rama-men that iii!» Cycle of the Nine Gads will amine him with ever-
lasting life. In the shape). itself the representations are very numerous.
The king, in one, appesrs as a uphiux, resting: on a base bearing the
names of six nations man! he has conquered A somewhat singular scene
represents sﬁandardﬂmarera with the ensigus of the: homes, porsanifying
the emblems uf life, cansmucy, and pOWﬂr in Ithreefoid repeiition; than,
like the inscripiiuns lieiweeu the standard-poles, tesch us that Ssii was
endued wiih courage, lungth of days, uninterrupted safety marl strength,
victory, abundance, and the kingdom of Egypt; for life. It wauld be wear:-
some to (immigrate ihu muititude of other insci-iytions of a similar tenoar.
Among I'm 22 reprawniniiozas in she king‘s alumni, many of whiah are in
u. very dilapidazed condiiizm. the must mzitawgrthy is ens in wide}: the
king appears mm the: Hume of (lsiris, animated by the goddesses Hakim}!
(Eileithyiaﬂ and Bats bath and Home draw lighmr the stands of the
plants symboliamg Ham and Lower Egypt; which enfold the sign of union

 

g semi Bml’e‘mh, mu goddess (if history, behind Thom, ineeribea am name

of the king‘ in another scam} Set} " emailed on a, ihrono supported by
three figures in ills form of Home; M3 three in ﬁne form of Anubis, Un-
der 2. canopy adorned with Uranus-serpents appears the slats barge of the
king, probably a. representation of the vessel kept in this templa and borne
on high in the processions. Similar represcnintions of the Elli in which
the SuuwGotl was supposed to traverse Lhe heavens have been iound made
of bromus or the precious metals and may be seen in. the museum at. Gite}:
(soc Baedeker’s Lower Egg/p2) and claw/hers. Below are canapi (Vol, 1.,1). 301),
in from sacrificial oil‘m-ings, and behind Thom and Kenmutef — We
observe Hm everything here refers to the king, whnse name recurs in weari-
some iteration, and who here receives back again as Osiris the oll'aringa
he had self made, during his mortal life, to Osiris and time to his
future 3 , um {Psiriwawﬂieosis of his small

A duer in the Osiris Chapel [P1, 5), me mini from the right wall, leads
to the mar-structure [P]. E) mentioned at. p. 6?. Though the sérncmra is
in a very miaous Aime$ iis ground-plan can easily be made cm. A colon»
nade, the roof oi which; once supported by 10 columna, has fallen ta we
ground, siuﬂd in [ii innanectian with ﬁle Osiris chapel. 7-: Contains 51’? rs-
preaeniszio a, same all are almost whuiiy eéﬁmed. By 2136 wall. to
the riglac an cum.“ three small chambers adorned with line seal “in.
The first of £31536 3 dedicated to Horus, ii'm gamma [P1 1:) to skis,
the third (Pl. 1) no Isis, Behind them iny mother roam (P1. in). In line
will to His leis. (in emeriug Room 1-: is a door leading to a. room (P1. In)
with {our sulumms, whim]: was adjoined by three smaller apm’imsnu (1’). n
u, 9}. Though aha most sacred mysteries were celebrated in this suite 0}
moms, they offer 1mm theiis novel; the impismenu of the priests were
kept in the side-moms. get-e, no doubt, many a spectacle was prepared
which, when dispiayed in tha Osiris chapel, ﬁlied the pious worshippers
with awe and wonder.

Scum Busmmm APARTMENT WITH rm; TABLET 029 Tim KINGS.
w This bniidigig comists of a series of riwms, all more or less
ruinous and most 3: them rusi‘less, a court, and semi: smaller
chambem The magi: ivngmrtum? tu "which a visit should be paid,
even if ail {am (when be emitted, i. ”i. king (85 ft.) and low Corridor
{BL is), emit—aw} {sum the left side of the second hypogtyle hail,
between ﬁne semnd arid third row of columns, The list ceiling is
adorned with a risk network of ornamentation, civmliining the name

   

   
  

’v
z
Page-12
of Sen" 1. ABYDOS. 4. Route. 65

of the king, the symbol of the ‘pnnegyric. tent" IQ and a. numbct

or stars. A (indicator)! inscription, dividing Elm ceiling into two
parts, recorﬁa that ﬁlm; Memnonium was ermléui in, ﬁlm mele of
Abydos :0 his fomfaﬂnm and all the cyclea m? $0113 {1? lusmtm and
earth, by the king, lord of thg Mattie-ms, Wha is born again, who
surpasses all in strength arul :mnihilates the barbarians, the via—
torious Homg, who aywars in new glory, homing away over the
barbarians 11:1 all countries, the king of Up’pexund Lawn: Egypt,
who achieves nuble deeds" the lord 61' both warms, Rawmammen.
He erected to them these venm‘nlmﬁ suncmnriea outside the Been}
polls, building lhem of stone and inlay'mg them will}: gultl, in
an everlaatmg work onllasting human life, etc.’ m By the right
wall 0n entering the corridor from the second hypostyle is the cele-
brated ”Tablet a! Abydas, consisting of three long rows of royal

shields or mﬂmmlma 0, before which Seﬁ and 3139 mm Ramses 1].

stand in «don‘t-low The 1xmying king raiseshis right ham”?! mad holds
a cemer in his left hand; the boy-prince, standing in from nfhim,
still bsara the luck of swath? hanging nvm‘ his mmples. In his
taiaed hands he hears written rolls. The adjoining imagrlylien reads:
‘Reeitation of mugs of praise by Prime Ramses, a. A and illstlmm of
the king who loves him’. Above the shicldx; is anoﬁher inscription,
which describes the king’s alluring as mania bu Piah—Sakax—Osiris,
the lord of the sarcophagus in the Memnoninm of Abydas and {um}:
lake!) the xoyal forefather of Seti. He enumerateg hips gins: 1000
loaves of breml, 1000 barrels of beer, 1000 cattle, 1000 geese,
1000 incense-offerings, 1000 oilnoﬂerings, 1000 pieces of cloth,
1000 garments, 1000 barrels of wine, 1000 holy offerings. - The
ﬁgure 1000 here, which occurs in almost all sacriﬁcial Hats maul also
in other formula, is not, of course, to be taken literally but simply
as equivalent to many. The king, as we see, brings his youthful
mm into the hall éeﬂicmed t0 hit: anwﬁmm, where the earlier rulers
of Egypt, unﬂer the aymbel (all their name, dwell besiala ﬁlm mm?)
of Osiris. H9 hummus the boy to offer rich gill», man. as. llamafte:
he weuld Wialx offered 9,0 his own mamas. 19, is beyﬁn-J ﬂmxbﬁ; that
Seti was Still living when this insuripcion was set my, anti yet-
he alregdg; adds his mm name an these 01 his predecessam; if,
occupies the whale 01‘ tlm lowest row (the third 2mm the top} of the
royal tabla, bainag repealed £9 times with gum-flu. mull afﬁx, The
living Seci provides for the future Osiris gull for his worship at the
holy grave. — In the ﬁrst volume of mill Hanniboek (p 80) it Ems
been shown that the establishment of the chronology 01’ ﬁlm Egyptian
kings Wail wandered possible only by a c-ollntion of ﬂu) lists 0f Manama
with the lists of Pharaohs preserveé in the monuments. Among
the latter none approwhea in importance the royal table: of the

BEDEKHR‘B Upper Egypt, - I: ﬁz’j'
Page-13
66 Route 4. ABYDOS. Mcmnom‘um

Memnonium at Abydos, which contains no fewer than 76 carbonches,
only two of which are slightly injured. The tsblet from the temple
of Ramses (p. 68}, now in London, contains 16 emire and 2 hsli‘
destroyed csrtonsllesa while the list cf Sshkﬁrnh, (lisnavamll by Ms-
rielta, has 39 whole and 3 damaged canouches.

Mans, Le. Manes, the ﬁrst historic king of Egypt, heads
the list. The names following his are those 01‘ tlm most
prominent monarchs, at least those whose legitimacy was

’WW“ unquestionable. The Heracleoyolitans and the Hyksoa are
naturally left out, but other rulers, of when! we possess
monuments, have also been apparently deemed unworthy of
inclusion in this important roll of bailout The merit of

m ﬁrst observing mil publishing this inesrimsble hismrical

document belongs to Prof. Dﬁmichen.

0n the left wall of the corridor we again meet Sell and the
youthful Rsmsss. The father holds & censcr in his left hand, while
the son, adorned with the priestly panther-skin, yours a llbatlon an
the 31m in front of him. The titles 0f the right wall remuygear
here. The inscription, which the royal pair faces, contains in syste—
matie nrcier the names of these objects of worship, with their llamas,
whmn Seti has honoured with sacriﬁcial gifts. The sculytura in this
corridnr, consisting of alto—reliefs on the ﬁne—grained limestone, is
all executed with the greatest delicacy. In the centre of the right
wall a. door leads into a narrow Chamber (Pl. t). vaulted in the same
manner as the sanctuaries (y 61), and yrecading the stair {P}. n)
which leads to the hill at the back of the temple The inscnptions
here are in excellent preservation, beingim‘nred only in a few placas;
the adjoining figures of Seti and Ramses show the laﬂer arrived at
manhood and the throne. Safek‘n, the goddess‘of history, ‘t‘ne great
mistrgss of boakn‘, aldrlreasas her (inning son Static The Gammon}: of
foundation, which we ﬁnd more fully represented 15ml described in
the Ptalemaic lemples, ls also (lepicted here. The praises of the king
are sung, and his merits are, at the command of R3, to be committed
m writing by the goddess of history. That}: also congratulates the
king in the emphatie manner usual to such inscriptions, and promises
him an eternal existence and the stability of'nis kingdom fer hundreds
of thousands at years. ’Ihoth is named the tongue of Ru and lord
of the speech of the prophet of truth. This smlrcase was complaced
while Ramses shatrml the thrnne of his father as «lo-ruler.

The other roams of thia purl. of the building are all more airless
in ruins. From the S. end of the kings’ gallery we enter a kind at
grerlstyls Court (Pl. G), with seven celumns, which ycrhaps was
never completed. Tina sculptures and hieroglyphlcs are not very
carefully exernteci and appear ‘en creux’ inssead of in high relief.
The most interesting scenes are those on the lower part of the walls,
represuniing {he slaughter (2f the cattle, gazelles, Mill antelope!
which Sell bad so lavishly vowed [in the adjoining king’s gallery)
Page-14
of Sec: 1. ABYDOS. 4. Ram. 67

to the gods of the temple. Some of the resisting oxen are remarkably
true to nature. Probably the swziﬁcisi animals were actually siain
in this court, a conciusiou strengthened by the broken pottery found
here by Mariette am} the We springs of turbid waterq A well has
also been nieceverad outside the E. wail of the temple, which may
be the spring described by Strsbo.

The Room marked F on the plan is the most interesting of the
other apartments in this wing. The entrance to it is on the left
{8.) side of the space between the sanctuary and the third row
of columns in the remand hypostyle hall. The door leading to it is
named ‘the great door of Ra—ma—men (ale. Seti), the favourite of
Soker'. To thir deity, 09iris~Sokar m: Ptah—Soku—Usiris, keeper of
the resin] «if shmies, this room is consecrated? though other gods,
sushi as Nefer Trim, Horus, 21nd Thoth are also represented here.
The king appears in the act of oﬁ‘ering sseriﬁee. To the extreme
right on entering, an the wall between the dams, are reliefs of
n'ehly aéomed Kilometers, the symbols of the state of stability
and yermanence aimed at by Pharaoh; the inseriytions inform
us that they were dedicated to the Osiris of the under—world, Ptsh—
Seksr—Tatunen, who was worshippeﬂ in the Memhohihm of Alwdosa
0n the entrance-wail, to the right of the (least, is the bark {if Soluiri
mi 3 iiet is given of the titles of this gm} of the many aliases,
who was revered in so many ﬂifferent spots. The form of the three
columns preserved here is peculiar. The uylindrical shafts, which
bear the abacus without any tran itional member, are ﬂattened at
the points where their periphery would touch an exscribmi square,
and hence their eectinn is in the shape iii an octagon with four
straight and four curved sides. — The doors to the right, on each
side of the above—mentioned Niiometers, lead into two oblong rooms
with united ceilings, which have partly {alien in (PL (1, r). — The
other apartments of this wing cantain nothing of special interest.
They are all ruinous, and ﬁve of them eannot be entered except from
the eutside. — In visiting the Memnoninm of Abydes, the traveiler
should bear in mind that he has to do with a cenotaph, dedicateri
to the manes (if a king apotheosiseui as Osiris and to his forefathers;
and lie shonid aiao remember that the site of the building was de-
termined by the belief that the seuis of those who had been ‘smcii-
ﬂed’ near the Holy Tomb couid look forward with conﬁdence to the
highest Joys of the worlii to come.

Momma-Ira To res Noam. Net oniy Seti, but also his son has
erected a cenotaph to himself near the tomb of Osiris. To reach
t is Sepulchral Temple of Ramses II. we turn towarcis the N. and
skirt the margin cf the desert for a few minutes. It is in u very
ruinous state, but still presents many features of interest. The
ground-plan of a periatyle court, several rooms, and the sanctuaries
beyond them can still be traced; but the average height of the re—
maining waiis is only 5—6 it. The yieture of ruin preeented to us
Page-15
58 Rotate 4L ABYDOS. Temple ofRamm II.

haze is all the more striking {min the obvious yains of the founcler
to make a. easily and enduring monument. Where Seti contented
himselfwith limestone, Ramses made lavish use at granite, :ientai
alabaster, and black graywaoke. The remaining fragments Show
that Ramses erected obeliska of granite in from of his oenotaph, and
thaé caryatide-like ﬁgures of Oaizis, new long since shattered, stood
at the sides of the ﬁrst peristyle court: Plastic ommentation was
freely usexl and so rinhly painted that the (201:)an have 6.0 this day
clung to some of the fragments. Ramses followed the example of
his father in consecrating a chambez to the manes of his ancestors.
In 1818 Mr. Banhes discovered in tha chamhar to tbs left (E) of
the ﬁrst octoslyle room a royal list of eighteen names, two of which
were partly destroyed, and the relics of these tablets are still in aim.
M. Mimaut, the French Consul General, tore down the walls on
which the imyortant Untouches were represanted and sent the stones
to Paris, whence) they passed by purchase to the British Museum
Almost no inscription has been left. intact; here. Wis learn, howevar,
that Ramses was much more anxious than his father to record his
own achievements. Not a few names of peoples and towns which he
subdued or captured may still be discerned among the wins.

The visitor will gladly arrest his steps by the representation a!
a grand procession, which is to be found inside the great some, 30
the ﬁght and left of the entrance. The pxocession, beginning at
the NW corner of the mu, which was formerly surrounded with
Calida—pillars, (extends over the whale of the: Na wall. Four mxnpla
ofﬁcials are represented, one described as a secmtazy, two Wiﬂx
leopard-skins as priests of Osiris and of the house of Ramse‘s Me—
riamon Khnumt Ahdu [connected with Abydoa], ma the fourth as
Kerhul). Animals, some living am} scum dead, are brought to them
for sunriﬂce. Among these are antelopes, geese, and oxen of an!»
ordinary size and fatness. On the right side of the fare-court are
similar scenes, in which the procession is siill more grandly equipped.
Herc twp-3a: the royal war—chariot, numerous ofﬁcials, and magmas:
while incense is humed befcre the stigma of the monarch. The no»-

lonring of these ﬁgures 1:» surprisingly well yresarveé.

02: the outslda n! the temple, R. aide, is an inscription relating to
this Khela war, discavemd by EiMnloh: in 1870; unfortunately only tho
lcwer parts of lines are presewed. Adjacent. to 22:6 W. sad R. are
represenlseions of evanls in tins Khan war. similar to chose of the
Bamanseum at Thalia! The axﬁorio: of the 8; wall is hovered with a.
long inscription, recounting tha building of the templa, of whiah the
following is a trauslstinn. ‘Behold his Majesty, Lire, Salvation, and
Health, ﬁlm haloved son represanting his fame.- Unnal‘er and making him
a bantiful and lozdly dwslling, built for eternity of white. good, {air
stone, the two great pylons of ﬁnisheﬁ workmanship, the door—Ways of
Manila. The doors iharein of ‘urome, plnied with ma} elaaerum; Shh
gran: $5M (i4. the inner sanctuary) of alabaster; its sanctum! covereé
with granite, and its exalted seat of up tap, the masher: (cradle) for 329
tycla of guda. Hi5 exalted iathar lies willxin, em: 33 Re. in united with
heaven; hls lordly {portrait is by him this: beg-at him, even as Horus on
the 61mm 0! his “her He has daily multiplied aha olfarlngi l’or Ill
Page-16
Nccmpolis. ABYDOS. 4. Home. 59

times, for the feats 9f the seancns' and the fauna of the year, (aha feasts
for sack day for himself. He ﬁlled the eemple will} all thlngs, 5 swer-
abundance of gifts of nourishment, bulls, calves, axe“, geese, incense,
wine, and fruit, ﬁlling it with labourers, (mriclaiug it with ﬁelds pra’
saluting cattle, ﬁlling the amrehouse with suparabundunce, the aura
reaching t0 heaven, the servants cf the domains of the ort‘eriug being the
captives 9f his brave sword. His treasure-Muss ﬁlled with ull gums,
with Silva: and. gold in bars, 1,113 atorakuusu full oi all things sent as
lribute from all countries. He has constructed numerous canals, and has
ylanted timber of all sorts, fragrant plaura from the land of Punt; he
bu (ions 3.“ mi», the mm of Ra, ﬁlm lord of the cliuliexm;$ the beloved
of Osiris anti of the gods me lords of Abydos".

Like the temple of Seti, that of his son Ramses was also a
sanctuary dedicated to Osiris, though in each {use the predominant
feature is {he glariﬁcation of the monarch in his apotheesis as
Oairis. Mariette was therefore on a. wrong tack when he saw a
special temple of Osiris in the enclosure (Pl. 111; p. 5?.) to the N.,
near the village of Elehtrbeh, and agent much time and money in
an artemyt to ﬁnd the actual grave of Osiris. Obviously this was
merely an older sanctuary, erected by the kings of the 2th and
13th Dynasties on the siee of a still more anoient lemyle. [Two
steles in the Louvre, numbered 0 ii and 0 1‘2, and the great stale
of Memuhozep, now 'u the museum of Glzeln, give us information
concerning these bui dings.] Nowadays this temple is a mere heap
of rubbish, and. the few interesting ‘ﬁnds‘ made here, such as the
statues of Usertesen I; and Userteaen 111,, and some inauriptions of
the time of Tulmea Ill, haw: been sent to the museum of Gizeh,
The same insﬁautlou received the many hundred ateles four-d partly
on the site of this temple and 3231111; in the Necropolis of Abydoa.
Three such cemeteries are distinguished. The ﬁrst, containing
wmbs 01' she Naw Empirs, from the 19m Dynasty downwards,
lies to the S. of the temples of Sari l. and Ramses IL Another
(ﬁécropoie 4111 Centre) has to the W. of the path leading from the
temple {of Ramses ll to the (ac-called tem 13 of Osin‘s, and contains
graves mainly of the 8th and i‘rtlx Dyna 1035 Herc was found the
hiazoﬁnally valuable tablet of Una {see Baedeker’s Lawer Egyyt,
p. 307), who accomyauied three successive rulers of the 6th Dynasty
in their campaigns. 'I'lm third at N. uccmpolis, to the W. of the
acacalled temple of Osiris, contains numemns graves of the 1th
and 13:11 Dynasties, has also many of the new empire. Among the
interesting ateles found here were those of a. Neferlrotep of the
13th Dynasty and of Sheshonk, the latter erroneously pronounced
by H. Brugsah to have ”been a. Persian Wrap The pyramidal struw
cures found in the N. and central cemereries are also interesting.
Still further to the W. lies a quadrangular enclosure surrounded by
a. lofty wall and named Shumt czwlcblb (P1. IV; 1). 5‘2; magazine of
the Zibelaes), whisk probably served as a place of defence against
the incursions of the Beduins of the Great Gases. A Coptic Convent
[2‘]. V; p. 52) to the NE. of this point, dating from the year PM}
(If the Coptic era, scar-rely repays a visit. -
Page-17
70

5. From Beliéneh to $61163: {Dendemlz}.

Comp. Hap, p. a.

56 M, Smsnsou in 45/2 hrs. Comp, p. A5.

Between Beliéneh and. Ewell the Dam Palm (Eyghaeua the»
balm) becomes more and more common, generally manning in
grouys and increasing in size anti beauty as we travel southwsxds
(comp. p. 28). It is a fan—leaVed palm of moderate height, dividing
into two yarts at the upper and of the stem and sometimes repeat~
ing this bifurcation two or three times: H exlamls far to the S. of
Egypt, and whole forests of it are found on the upper Nile. Its
large nuts contain a soft and ﬁbrous gulp, which is edible anﬁ
tastes like sweet cake; while various objects are made out of the
bani riné. 1:5 timbm ané hast are also of considerable industrial
value.

The ancient Lepidoium must have lain on the E. bank of the
river opposite Beliéneh; but, though described by Ptolemy as a
large town, no trace of it remains. The. Lepidoms [the Cyprinus
lepidulus 026001313031, and Cine; dautux of Savigny) was hell! hem
in high honour, though, accarlling 1.0 Plutarchi it was one of the
ﬁshes that swallowed the Phallus of Osiris and was hence generally
:egariled with special abhorrence.

Fxom Beliﬁneh to Keneh the Nile valley lies almost due E. and
W. About Ii M. from the S. bank lies Samhﬂd, on ancient rubbish~
mounds. Nagi—Hamadﬁ, also on the 8. bank, 19 M. from Belie‘meh,
is the station for Farshﬂt, 3 M. to the 8., now an uninteresting
vilhge wltll a. large sugar-factory belonging to the Hhedive.

50 late as the 18th cent this wss still the seat of the great shékh.
who was the head at the I’m-Mia‘s (pl. of mm, )1er pron. Bavaria), or
tribes of rmlunlad Arabs on the 13ft hunk of tin: Nile. The comparativa
widlh of the river-plain makgs horserbreeding an important ocaupatlon
among mesa tribes, and their aha gy grey dogs are alga celebrated, The
luitara an: fraquenely new guarding mo (lacks of sham). and an: mlly
distinguishabla from lhe worthless and cvwardly curs that haunt lbs
streets of the towns and villages. When encouraged 20 attack by their

owners, these Bram animala are omzaetlingly dangaruuu antagoniam.-
Fran: Farsi-ﬁt to the Great Omsk, gee It» 3:5.

9% M. Hen (W. bank) and Eng! eg-gaiyad (E. bank) lie nearly
oyposite one another, at one of the shin-yes: bends in the stream.
Hﬁu, a large but miserablewleoking village. was the bone of Shékh
Selim, who died a few years ago, at a very advanced age, after
sitting stark naked on the bank of the Nile for 53 years; he was
regaxdad by pious Mnslems with gxeat honour and was deemed to
possess great powers in helping navigation and barman women. Bis
grave here is covered with Arabic inscriptions and vstive gifts in
the form of small boats.

7311mm win) wig}: to vigil tine scanty ruins of the nucleus Maxwell!
Flrvk traverse ths village in the diremmn of the mountains, crass two
«lee ditches, near which stand tha ﬁnely hull: piers of a. ruined
hri g3, and teach ('25 min.) a lax-g1: mound of debris, known as Gabe! 1199'
(it. Horus). This is the only remnant of the ancient Djuavol' ﬁx the

exception of a {ﬁgment of a laugh of ihﬁgaiuidnﬁwﬁ
Page-18
ms): Es_-SAIYAD. 5. Route. 71

where, :00, some stones hearing the careouches a!“ Ptolemy Philometor
project from the g- .cumi in a clear spam Nothing of interest is is be
seen here except one of the largest anu oldest lahbeknrees in Egypt.
The axtanslvr. cemstery contains numerous Cuflc inscriptions. Hiero—

glyphic inscriptions hnve been fouuxl in gratings in a hill in tha W. of
the town.

{Ia-sf eg-{Saa‘yﬁd (mail steamer station) marks the site of the an—
ciant Ghenoboskion, which is mentioned by Ptolemy, by Stephanas
of Byzantium! anti in the Itinerary of Antonina. ami belonged to
the Nomm Panopols'tes. No remains are visible except a few frag—
ments of the riverwall, with an unimportant Greek inscription of the
Roman period. it owes its name, meaning ‘geese pistum‘ [Xma—
fiocusicv, Capt. genecn'r, from the ancient Egyptian Geese (Cake),
to the fact that immense quantities of geese, a. favaurite food and
sacrificial offering of the» old Egyptians, were reared here. Its pmm
pinqnity to the home of Memes (This—Abydos} makes it seem quite
natural that graves of hear antiquity (5th Dy nasty; should he found
in the neighbourhood. These are reached from the village oi 15"“?!
es—Saiyﬁil in about 11/4hL Donkeys. but no aarldless may he ob-
tainea, through the Shékh el—Belecl. We ﬁrst ride through a well—

‘lled district, cross a bridge over a canal which waters the district:
pass the village of Iséah. and reach the Arab hills. The ancient
tombs, constructed of light<~colouraé and unusually ﬁneugrained
limestone, nnw name in sight; they tints. ﬁrm the reigns of Pepi,
Merira, and Raneferka, all of the 6th Dynasty. The large tomb
situated farthest to the left contains representations and inscriptions
which are identical in style with those in the most ancient part of
the Nenrovgolis of. Memphis. Thin {tailing wnsleftrough-hcwn. Some
of ﬁre small insariptions cu: in the living rock near the entrance
are in Coptic. The representations on the inside of the entrainme-
wall have been almost wholly destroyed, but some ships may be
:iistingnishell to the ﬁght of the (1001'. On the right wall are ﬁgures
hearing funereal gifts and a large sacriﬁcial table. The rennwall
is divided iniu two distinct portions, as the left side of the tomb
has been pushed much farther into the rock than the right. In the
latte: are two niches. That to than right contains an image of the
deceased one hf the chief dignilaries unclm' the. Pharaoh Raixcharha

named Zulu (GE-73% [D >. From the second niche, farther

to the ieft, s. mummy-shaft descends obliquely; adjacent is a uop-
tin inscription. in the deeply recessed seer-wall of the left side
are four smaller nichen, probably intended far the cofﬁns ofmambnm
of Zn ’3 household deemed worthy of special hormuxn -- The next
tomb, farther to the right, is of even greater interest than the one
just described. It belonged to an ofﬁcial named Atkhe’nu, wholiwd
in the reigns of Peyi, Mariya, ané Raneferka, and was not only en—
gageé incite construction ofthe pyramids of these monarchs, but was
also a distinguished warrior. The pyramids were named- _ (‘0’:
Page-19
72 Route 5. TABEMA. From Beiidmh
‘l'rne Ascent? and ‘Sceneofmfe \
’ NVVVV‘ Elva—ﬂ J '

, , , WW l
The names of the three lung: and than pyramids were found in the

inscriptions to the right and left of the entrance (outside). The
tomb is in the form of a reciangle, with the mummy-shaft open-
ing in the buck—wall. The representation of Atkheuus m the left;
of the entrance, is very lifelike and derives peculiar interest from
the fact that the granéeeo of {he early yeriod are seldom represented,
as here, in full mill ry activity. Our hero, another Una. {see
Baecﬂekzer‘r Lower Egypt, 1). 30?), lifts the arm vigorously 1/0 strike
his foe. The mode of wearing the hair and headdress, seen both
in this ﬁgure anal that of Atkheliu’s Wife, is unusual. Aikhenu was
a rich mm, possazssing, according to the inscriptions, 23:50 oxen.
On the left side of the rear—wall are represented several scenes from
the private life of the deceased. Cattle are being slaughtered, cooks
are busy at their work, etc. Above the door leading to the mummy-
shaft we see a large altar, adjoining which is a long but much dam-
aged insorlytiorl. w The smaller tombs in the vlciniiy are less
interesting. Several Comic inscriptions testify that anchorites foumi
retreats in these tombs during the Christian period. We are now
approaching the region which, in the time of Pachomius, was most
thickly populated with monks aurl anchor-lies.

Farther on we pass a ﬁne mountain—muss, which looks especially
imyosing by afternoon light, and see several thriving villages, often
situated close to the river. Deshneh, a steamboat-station on the
N. bank, 13 M. from Kagr og«$aiy§d, is situated on the ruins of an
ancient town. .

Thowila of the uelehruieri Tzhannz, which lay between HG“ (Blowo-
lin) and Denier-ah (Tentym). must he sought for either- hare or close :0
Koneh. l: belonged to she name of Tenlyra and it: (Joplin name Wu
il‘abcnnssch, which may he translaied ‘plroe a! the lair pulma‘. The Greeks
supposed that ‘ncsi’ meant moo: (noses) or island, and hence it comes that
ihe town of Talisman, situated on the mainland, is generally spoken of as
the Island a] Taber-m. ll is said than the Aral)» name it Garry's! tl-Gharb
or laid nf the Wee:y but. no support of thin ceulrl be found an the 5520)).
St. gramme relates that a: she and of the this cans. no fewer than
50,003 monks assembled in the district of Tabenasnua to celebrate the
Easter Festival. All of ihose followed the rule of Pachomiu: and be"
longed either to the chief monastery (Monuterium Major) ﬁer- ta the
smaller humble, Burro, and anohoriie calla dependant on ie. It in max»
vellum that the temple of Bender-ah (p. 80), so rloso to this communiﬁy
of fanatics. should have been left almost inzact. Perhaps the expiamnion
is that at the time the monks settled here the strife about ﬂogmaa aroused

much more excitement in the occlesiaatical breast than the dislike of
heathen gods um had long since become harmleai.

56 M. (‘17 M. from Dealixmh) gem-h (steamer—station). 3 amino
with 15,400 inhab., lies on theE. bank of the Nile at the yoiut where
the river, suddenly abandoning its northward course, turns to thew.,
almost at right angles. It is the capital of the ﬁfth Madiriyeh of
Upper Egypt, which in 58? sq. M. in extent. and within: a population
£406,558. The Greek name oldie town was meﬁwok :9 ‘Nawmwn’.
Page-20
Ea Kenek. RENEE. 5. Route. 73

A: the time of the piigﬁmage to Mecca Kaneh presents a very iiveiy
scene, as it is then frequenteé by large numbers of the participatoxs
in that great religious picnic, The spiritual and material wants of
the pious Ecdjmij are entered for by six spacicus )quzﬁplesi mime—
mus amine—houses, and Marge number ni‘piacesaf amusement7 among
the attractions of which Egyptian dancing—giﬂs are prominent. For
the rest lgeneh diﬂ‘exs little in general character from the other
towns 0f Uﬂtsr Egypt. The havens: should not fail, however, to
see the mast valuable piece of 13ml near Keneh, which is about one
Fedden (3500 sq.yds.) in area and yieids an exceilent variety of
pottez’s clay that has made Keneh pottery, like that of Assiﬁg: famous
throughout the country, iﬁeneh has a special reputation for its
Kulal (pl. of Kline), a: can} porous wuieluirotﬂess and for its Railz’is
and Mr, large vessels used in carrying, purifying, am} preserving
Water. In same of the early Egyptian inscriptions ﬁgures of the
Bailis and 231‘ appear as distinctive symbols, in the" exact forms in
which they are made today. Hundreds Of thousands of these clay
vessels are annueﬂy exported from Kene‘n in boats of a primitive
but not unpracticai description, constructed for the purpose, in
which they are piled up in pyramidal form, Eaatened together with
ropes maﬁa of the base 02’ the (ﬂue—palm anti attachmi to ‘rei-mnguiar
frames. A trustwarthy rayon ﬁxes the number sent away in 1880
at 900,000. Consiﬂembie activity is aiso manifested in the manu-
facture of kiln-dried pottery, generally either red or black, used fer
chibouk—heads, bctiics, pitchers, vases, drinking-“#63813, am, of
every size and silage. The almost invariably graceful forms and
tasteful deeorationa of these utensils may be unreservedly set down
as a bequest from ancient Egypt.

6‘ manta: thmugh the Eastern Began.

Elem}: is 11. place of some importance as the startingupuine of me
canvass traversing she Arabian d‘eser: to Kugér (p. 77) and as an em:
porium of the made of U per Egypt wiih the coasi-districts at“ the Red
Sea. 1?. consequently aﬁ'orn a, gumi uypm-tunity of making a short and
comparatively easy deserﬁ journey? as the interesting excurnion to Kugﬁr
can he made without any very great privatien or danger. The caravan—
mute leads vii ﬁamlinwt, traversing Mia rocky Arabian Desert, which is
not cnly of great scenic grandeur but alga full of inecrest im- the num—
raiist 31141 the archaeologist. ginger, 3. art on the Red Sea, is abem
110 X. Imm Keneh, uni the jtmrney can 9. maﬁa comfortably in four,
or at most ﬁve days. ,

These desert-routes were imperunt even in antiquity for the trade
with the aesperis and ma land of Pam (Arabia) on me one side and the
vaSuabla quarries in the monniuins oi the Arabian Desert on the ether.
Spices and other easily yroﬁucts were sem across the desert m Iﬁench,
at ﬁrst on ﬁuukey-bwk ami nfferwarda on camels, whiie green breccia.
and several varieties of granile was sent down in ﬁlB sea in return. The
most important paints on the Rea’ Sea, named item N. to 8,, were ﬁiyas
Harm: (new Aim 3w zl-Igibh’), in the latitude of Bioui‘aiﬁh Lenka-s
Lima new Keg-«Ir,- and Bermike, in the latitude of Assuﬁn. The mute
from keaeh to Myos Harmon leads to the RE, and a ehcrt detcur may
be make through the Wadi Engine, with it» granite qua. ieam 85. $5“
Page-21
7 4 Rouie s. Bis mama. Eastern Desert.

the Roman town and colony of Rydreum or Fan: Mme, which lies
in ihe latitude of gen, about 3 days‘ journey from Keneh. Guiside the
walls lie a temple and other buildings, and some large columns and Greek
inscripiions have been found in the quarries, which were worked chieﬂy
in the time at Hadrian and Trajan. About ewe éeye‘ journey farther to
the N. is Gebulmkluin (‘smnke mountain'), the ancient pcrphyry quarries
M which were worked by the Romans. Here are the ruins of an Ionic
temple of the time of Trajan {never completed), some remsins of am irre-
gularly built town? and iwn large walerreservnirs. The old route led
hence to Alyce Homer, the harbour at which hes been sills-i up and is
new praelically uselees. Travellers making for the Sinai Peninsula jour—
ney to the )1. {mm the porphyry quarries for two or three days more,
and cross by beat 3:) fair (sea Basdeker‘: Lower Eyypt. p. 515). Those
who undertake one at these journeys shank} study the ‘Beisebriefe‘ or
Lepsius and Wilkinson's Weibknnwn work.

A much more interesting journey than that. in Ge‘mel I‘mkhﬁu is the
trip to Kogér, or at least to Wadi yantdmdt, where there are numerous
Egyptian inscriptions. For the journey {there and back} 1041 days should
be allcwed, and Egyptclegists will probably want $3 days more. It. is
generally undertaken from {5631811, but we may also ehoose the old route
from gm]; (Korios, yr 98), or we may start from Luxor. The ﬁrst two
routes units at el~Karb and are joined 51‘; Wéfah by ill“ from Luxorr
The necessary asmels may he obtained in 39323 with the aid of one of the
ermsular agents (camp. 13. 7‘2). The route frame. leieneh {telegraph—wires from
{his to liogér] leads ﬁrst through the villages of Sheik}.- Rekﬁ), Barnett, and
Kim “bur-8n, which follow each other in quick sue/session the ﬁrst rm the
left, the other iwu an the riglxi side ml‘ the rim]. ’f‘he ﬁrst night is
generally spent a: the carsvsnsemi of Bi:- fiuu‘nar, about I'll/2 hrs. from
lﬁench, where the lofty palms and shady sycamore: and mimosae oﬂ’er 2.
most inviting haliingplace, The large aaruvunaemi was erected a! the
expense of an Ibrahim Pasha fer the use of the 150361: caravans and the
Mecca pilgrims. The structure camprises severe} separate buildings,
covered with damevshapeii roofs and surrounded by courts uni colon-
nadee. H has no owner and is ire-s to everyone to use u he likes. As
nestling is done to keep it in. repair, it is rapidly falling into decay? like
mast ol‘ the Brian”! buildings of the kind, and threeteus noon to be a
complete win. In the deserts of Upper Egypt. the temperature a: night
is so mild, even in wister, that strong and healthy persons may safely
sleep in the "yen air if warmly wrapped up; and for various reasons this
is preferable to a night in the «travails-erg» Those however,who prefer
to take their chances in the interior shouid not fail to make she most
minute examination of the room in which they inland to sleep, in order
to clear out ch: vermin with which it is almost certain (0 be infested;
scorpions and venomous makes are by no means uncnmman visitsnts.

II. is the «luty of the Khabi'r, or guide in charge of ihe caravan, to see
that everyone and everything are ready balimes in the morning, so that
a sufﬁciently early start may he made to cover the ground allotted to
each day‘s lurch. He is held reap-.mrible for the nefe conduct of the
entire party, and expects implizit obedience to his marching orders. We
soon turn our backs on the verdant green district hex-daring the Nile
and enter the barren desert, almost entirely destitute of vegetation, which
iii-s between the great. river and the coast of the Red Sea» The ﬁrst part
of the route is very unedifying. We advance steadily, Mewéing almost
imperceptibly, through a monotonous plain, intersected in all direellons
by small undulating bclghisr All around us extends the intermlmhle
Follcwish gray. sun-bleached rocks a! the desert; not a trace of o nic
life is visible, not a single green tree as shrub. At the hill of 6!-
(‘the horn‘), which riszw to the. laft ui‘ iha enravswrmiie, about midway
between Iiir um and Lari-Exam the ruled from Ranch is joined by the:
from Ifufr Not lunch but Kopﬁee, the modern Knit, 3 little to the 8:,
was the surlingvpuint n? the meal constructed by the ansleue Egyptian:
for the. traffic between the T’huhai'd and the Earl Bear Frem this 3min!
onwards we therefore {allow one of the mpst sac
Page-22
Eastern Bum. LAngTAH. 6. Route. ’75

known From ”:0 hiaroglypblca on the rocks and templz walla at Bama-
mﬁt we learn .hat the ancient Koptos road formed a, link as early as
3600 years before our era, in the intercourse cirriexl on between the Nile:
“ll-:1 and Arabia, via i216 dealer-i um! she Bea

We now ride in a S E. direction through & ﬁreﬂy district in which
*be only variety is aﬁordeé by an occasional Hal-wan or ﬁlm-elm. The
Kobwalaa are: almply spawn covered with camal‘s dung, ens: '1: Mali!»
gnished fro-11w an: rounélng so: ‘1 by lhcir darker colour and their smooth,
cement-like surfaoe. They occur on every great caravan route at regular
intervnls and are of the utmuat importation; as signposts showing the mud.
Hence no khabix or omelldriver passes one of lhese places wi 1"qu giving
his camels an onpormn; 1y so contribuse their gums co the maintenance
of the Mobwala. The 51¢}:an 9.- hailing places are 71/29 M apart and
serve also as mount as of distance. The swift-running camels take their
name from the number of msllatiaa they can reach in one day. Thus a
carnal which can cover 16 mallallua 66. 7f) 96 ii , in one day is known
as an Sit-had (runner of ‘ien‘ ,I. “the:- milestones of the desen are aﬁ‘om‘eli
by the skeletons of camels, bones, an»: noses, and by small can-1m above
she remains of unfortunate. lmvellers who have lost. their lives in this
{hear waste.

he Koéér car-av are usually pass the second night in ihe village of Li-
ram. (9 lax-B. from KM? and B'fx- ‘Ambar 121/: hrs from Kenah), which is
ehleflv inhnblzei ny ‘Ababrip’a; ii is also A nnlsing- place for caravans com-
ing in the opgosite direction. The small oasis lam lwo wells, the palms, a
small place a ﬁlled ground, 3 few mud. huts and a half ruined Aral) cam
vanaarai. It is 5 zhazacteristlc syeclmen of a desert-village and: oﬁ'ers much
to interest the stranger. 16. is a place of great conifer-e and convenience
in ﬁlm manila. a.» its rasnurum inuludo ﬁlm mater-i312; for a. «ulid and
gntisfying ﬂapper in the shape of mutton, goat s ﬂesh? poultry, eggs. etc.
The dogs here are gren- thievss and care should be taken to leave noth-ng
within their roach at night Jem- iha chief well are some fragments of
s Omsk inscription of the reign of Tiberius C‘ Maudlus

’lue ﬁrst Roman military station the Eydzeumi, now called by She
Aralm Kmr 93— 5mm (‘caalla of Ilia maidens). is 3 hrs. from Lakéfnh it
Ila: lo tho § of the cal-nun route and farms an oblong 1‘25 n in length
anﬁ 101 it. in breadth. The Wall Enclosing the oblong. formed. 9! layers
of snadslono without cement, was 6% (‘3. high. Within the wall lie 20
small chambers (waning on a rectangular inner court the only exit from
which is on the N. side. No water is new prowl-able here, To the N.
of the pull, opyusile ma ruin of the Hydraum», atanda a rock of samb
stone wish numerous grafﬁti in Greek, Coptic3 Arabic, Himyaritic, ami
Smaiﬁc managers.

At a distance of about 9 hrs from the Hydruuma Elm rocks close in
and form a winding pass or gnleway named Maw-6k ea 5 Mm 011 the
Gabe! Abu Kﬂ'sh (‘fsther of the elbow ). ills rock Sat ihe enhance lo the
pass}, are more grafﬁli, older than ihmie at Km}: «31- Banal: one of lhem
conﬁning the name ox the religieus refermer Alenhoiep TV We now
{prank she ﬁne rocky scenery through which. the second part of the

mar route leads In the distance, to tho right, rim the B. foothills of
ﬁx a Eamtmal Alta while never 5nd' in front are the S W spurs Through-
out his whole of the Nile valley from Cairo to Philae the traveller eu-
coumeru no such picturﬁsquu acenory as be seen in iravenging the magni-
ﬁcent malty fox-maﬁa!!! of this part of the: Egyptian Arabian desert EVE“
the impel-lug granite cliffs o! the Shellél islsrﬂs ané ehe quarries o! Aseuan
g». ale bar-ire the rocky mass of “he Homdmdl rising to a height, of £20!) f!.

be sums-:6 of the mags aonsls‘ (if a yellow snmismac followed by the
red ‘Nnbian’ amdsﬁone resembling (ha: of ihe Black Forest. while me great
auxin-El mm is oomposad of granite,

Bayoml ﬁlo Mull-5k (as-Selma the hills Again diverge. Among them,
to the F. of She caravan-route, lies asecond Roman Elation, with a mind;
ln well. Abou! 25:5. former on the hills of rrddls}: yellow sandstone:
9;ch place to loftlcr and almoa‘ black hills n! hrcccm, through tha- vallﬁy!
of winch, now Wide and new narrow, lhe caravan waldo ligEW-ﬁ- 339"“?
Page-23
A

76 Bout: s. WRDI EAMKMAT. 12mm 11mm.

hing with ﬁlm black mountains uni streaming among them for along way
is the Wisdi 3mm“, when; the green brmin- was qua-ﬂed in the magi;
ancient ﬁnes. In 1 hr. more we mash use Mr gamma, s wall 181's. in
diameter with a stone cuplug. Near the well are the remain: of a. Banana
well. anti between :hs two are ﬁve unﬁnished sarconhagl, some cemplstely
shattered. Near She well begins a series of short grafﬁti, including an
inscﬁpﬁtm of Print em Mb, a su erinieudani of labourers, anti represent—
ing Amman '3'» r. ram's hand curing the Mei crown. The cumulus
of Seal II. is also met with Abeu! 1 hr. farther an are longes- inscrig-
lions. in the ﬁrst a mine: named Ar! an hsm‘ps is mentioned and S e

 

symbel of the eroW—bar i is given. The numerous inscriptions of the

0M empire fauna have, belonging to the 521:, 8th., iiih, 12m, marl iﬂih
Dynasties, have bsen publishsd by Lsgvins (Part II. of his ‘Denkmiilsx‘l
and have rseuully been completed by . Goleﬂscheﬁ‘. They b I: with
king: Tatar-nudges and Una: u! the: 5th, and (karma and Pepi o the 6:1:
Dynssﬁy. The most luteresténg of all is the inscription 0f the 8th ynar of
Sank?» Ram, in which a military sxpediﬁon from Kopms to $0962» is re-
sordml; it gives! the names of ﬁns siniious, mentions the digging of two
cisterns sn Mines she passage {mm Talk (the surly nuns of ginger) to
she ”Holy Lem? (:19. Arabia). The name of Rohsnnu also occurs. Among
the later inscriytiens of the Shh Dynasty may be mealioned one) of the
3M year of Bunsen (‘Den‘imh’lsr‘ of Legging, III. 218; lrensl. in Bzugsch‘s
‘Hiatory of Egypt’, Eng. trunk, Vol. , p. 175 at seq). We learn Iron)
ﬁhis inseriytion Shae in the part of this user: named Hui-«nun

(22> r-E \N _ _
l l 5 [\n/_\!J lay a. special distract oi th Emmi! Jim.

l MW
” 0:0 ﬂew
known as I S :3 MAMA mvwx Pa tn en helium! or the ‘Bekhsn
{

v n...
11m] so culled from the 1?:an found there? a anagram, almnsﬁ bin-eh
sud exnsedingiy hard Morita. which was highly prizes by the Egyptian
sculptor-s. This region is ﬁgured in the issgmen‘s a)! a lap of the sinus
of Ramses IL new reserved in the museum of Turin; and from it it
would seem that go} also was procured in the Bekhen His. In the treasury
of the temple of Hedinet Habu we ﬁnd mention made of gold from ﬂush

'C)
(Enniopie), st (Edfn), Nublt (Omhos) ms “(3’ Q . By this In: we
1

shoulé undaubtedly understand geld brought by the Kama; trading mate,
but nnt geld obtaineﬁ there. The Train Euécnm possesses the plan of
another map at“ a. gold-mining region (of the ﬁle of Sell L), {he on
from which seems to have been married evar the camvau‘ﬂmw en lug
opposiia £411ch The inscripsisns in ilxe ao-cnlled Temple of Mésiyeh
(more properly WMl ‘Ahbés; see p. 253} nest of the wster-suppiy on this
route to the gold mines.

In {ha great inseripiien of Rams-es IV. a complete list ls given of all
the higher and lower ofﬁcials, as well as of all the wnrkmen inclnding
800 Aperiu (from the desert. to the E. or the Bells), who ml bean sixui
to the quarries by mmmsnd of the king. The loin} number amount! to
8368 souls. for whoss support co-misssris: columns wsm constansly
on the new between Koptoa and Bekhen. Arline 18 we rssd: “Pom 832$.
valsicue for than were brought u on ten waggans, and nix yoke: of
oxen were attacheé. to each waggon m going from Egyp: lo the Bekhen
Mis.‘ — Among the liter inscriptions is on of the time of Darius, glvin
the genealogy of % archimzls. Xerxes and Ariana-as IFS mo mentions
in ﬁlm inscripih us of Persian officials,

Just beyond the qusrriss the route turns from the RE. to the B. nnti
passes the ruins m‘ sl-Fawuhz‘r, an old mining ales. Thane who wish to
continue their journey to the Bed. Sea here still two shin-t dnys‘ marshes
ahead of them, ‘(he mule leading through the mm Résafab is 3mm (Bit
Page-24
Easier}: Dem-t. KOSER. 6. Route. 77

oi-Inglia) 5nd thence flu-{mg}: ihe Wadi Ami to 3mm- or Ken-sir, an
the Arabian Gulf, the Leak»: 1.6mm (White Harbour} of the Ptolemies and.
the Tug of the ancient Egyptians. About 4 31. so the El. the scanty rennin;
of Old Kayak corresponding :9 the harhcu: of Philotcra, the ancient Am-
man, which was named {has in honcur of the siaﬁer of Ptolemy Phil:-
dslplws, lﬁagér is now In unimpor’iam town of abou‘l 8000 lnhab., with
a. quay, a wooden mole la) ft. long, mm manque:1 xnd several banal-s.
The smﬂl house: He all whliewaahed. The oely ediﬂeee oi My size are
the govemmeus builﬂings erected. by Eehammed ‘Ali up gene the mole,
the segment cu5l0m~huuao, and a. large grnlnvmagnzlnu) a so belonging to
the Egypﬁm go‘vernment.

lu going from liogér towards the Kile the Beduim sametlmea prefer
mother anti more southerly route than that through the waex Hamﬁmit.
This diverges from the route Submits daemibed 31‘; ﬁlm Bfr thing“: in the
del Beulah {see above) and leeéa a! ﬁn: threugh the winding Wadi {Cm
ul-KMdSm, afterwards passing the Gcbel Nashua and through the pass of
Rial “~07“:sz in“) the Wadi Ghazdl. To the right rise the conical Gabe}
Daghm‘yeh and Gabe! Hoshdghir. We nexz {allow the dei Honmdah, which
further on takes the mum: of Wadi eLHamr from We line 3362‘ lizmw,
whieh ﬂanks H on the righﬁ. The night ls spent eﬁ Namath$ a village with
mule:- and a few hues of she ‘Abuhdeh. A: she Gabe: de we cross the
Tart; c’ddxréwi, a wad running from N. to 8‘, sum farther on reach
Amerah, with aneﬂxer Well and mum “Ababduh huée. Theme en: route
has thmugh the W664 [Mr and the 9mm Each to {he Mr sl-Kazh, a
ﬁrimLup well7 beyond which we page numaioua ausrries of green Marcela.
Beyond the page; of Rf“! GIAKM (sandstone (ovulation) anﬁ RFai eta
llamrah we reach she Hohwalm (see p. '75) of Ed: tiu'm', whence we go
on thmugh ﬁhe mm Magi-lag to Ale-Mala! KM! al—Hﬁir. Lastly we pub
mod vii 95m: awe» to LagéM (p. 75h when: our route enitus with
the more normeﬂy one already described.

Caravan 02: the way frem liogér to Eaneh Sake s mule still further
to the 3., vii the well of Barfdwi, The N. route from Nukbﬁ to Keneh
is new seidam used.

The journey so Baruch, on the Arabian 6qu in 211“ N. Ian, and m
the amen-3.141 mines 1/2” m the N. of it, is seldom undertaken. We may
63511 hem l§eneh or cheoa, diverging at Lakégah from :he make to Fogér,
or we may 11 in at a elm opyoalte Edfu (Contrﬁéyollanopom) or
Eadéslyeb (10.2%3). On all; routes mean of old wuiuring nations are
discernible) Bosh Pliny and the Itinerary of Amenine (3m cent. All.)
give a its! of the ancient stations, with hair disarm: from each osher
in Roma. manger The list in the ltincrary is as follews: Phwnieon 27,
Didyme 24% Afrodito ‘20 Kempasi 22‘ 10le 53, Aristonis 26, Phblacro '11},
A ammo i3, Kahlil ., Keenan Eyck-same 27, Berenike 18 — in all
‘ 1 Roman: miles = about W English miles.

Galznﬁww took ii day; from Bedésiyeh (p. 2633 i0 Beteuike$ And
maimed thence 19 Aunin in 8 days. in Day. 869' Abbdti (3 hrs.)y in the
WM: X3425, an: ancient nation Mal: quarry—maﬁa like those at el'Ha’mb,
near Eilsileh (p. 3w“). N 2nd I}: . Temple of Seﬁ I. at Bedésfyeh (p. 253},
with rocblnscri ﬁoni of the i 19th Minimise—33d D5 . More maaous’
marks iiiseovere . Ancient station of Adm 6mm with cinema (not to
be confounded with the piece of ihe same name nee: Bennike),—4¢h Day.
139mm through she def 351M, with its mm (seiem ané aeya’il, Acacia
Ehrenbergim Ami A. nilotiu). From this point a diverging mute leads
dim: to ﬁlm amen!!! mine; 0! the Wadi labirah (see below). We cross
the WM§ Handy. On tha’roeka 10 the right ave rude representations 0f
giriﬂ‘es, camels, “a ibexca. Remains of an inclenﬁ utaiirm named Hui/Ami,
with a cistern end «Plumbers, occur in ﬁlm same Wﬁdi‘ We next enter
She broad green WM‘ Rainfall, end steer for the G934 ﬁwcf. near which
is a spring of ”census water. —£~!h Day. Through huge granite rocks. to
$39”: a! ten and evenly mdo scum: huts, pmlsably built by miners.

law of Babel Zabinh. On a rock {a :he righz ls a View of en FEYWEMI
bark, with sails and rudder. Further on is a ruined simian, wﬂh $1M)
remain: of a stone hni. Neat ihis point on: rouw in joined by {he rouse
Page-25
78 Beale s. BEBENIKE. Eastm Desert.

from Knit (K0 toe), which Col, Column followed in 1313. [Beyond (9 be.)
Lakéteh (p, 7 , Coll Coiston’a route led vié (63/2 hrsl) NW, RS 3:55.) a
big hug well, ed~Dagban awe old wells (Bl/'2 hm), Basal: ('2 11:13.), and
we c Gcrf (6V2 hrs.).] » 61!: Day. Ancient station of sd~Dusig, with wail-aw
ions, chambers, and a, large cistern, opening on the RE. Adjacanz is
another smaller builxiing. About 3 hrs. farther on we emu ihe waierehuti
between ﬁha Nile and the Red Sea, Two more uieiema. We pales Elle
granise hill of AM Hi ' —7|.h Day. Descent into the Waldé Email. Suﬁsm
in ﬁne form cf 3 right-angled triangle. Two mend cisterns. Lateral
valley divergiz-‘g towards the emerald mines. The mountains (Gabe! Abram!)
now rise to the right, instead of, as previously. to the left—83h Day.
Vile yroceed through the midi Abyad and. the Wadi Hiya! , leaving She
(Jabs! ﬁamaia in the right; then 3103 the Wadi Emit. (in) height in
the Wédi Haw/1n are some curious ah khe‘ graves, in a circular form,—
Btb Day. Seven ether circular tombs; the well of ebHaratrar‘A lien 80 the
right; old structure of a. large cistern in the Wadi d—Haﬁr. Thmugll the
Waldé Amrugam to the Wadi Lﬂhems‘, which deaeends from the moentain
of that name, crosses our route, and proceeds in wimllnge to She Red
Sea. The lmsi atatlon ie Abu»6reiah, nowpriaing eeverai belittling», the
largest ef which, 60 paces long and 47 pms wide, contains she remains
of rooms. Another building aeeme to have been a reservoir for rain water.
«10:11 Day. Arrival at ﬁlm ruins G! ﬁhe old temple of Borenike.

The tewn o! Bsranike (Beremce), sizeaced in the me laﬁmée sa
Aseuﬁn, was founded in 3.0. 273‘) by Piolexuy Philadelphue, who revived
the commerce 0f ihe Bed Son by the establishment of several new puree.
The town, which wee named by Ptolemy after his mother, survivea‘x for
£00 or 500 years. The ruins, still extant, surround the Tangle which
faces the E.I€.E. In fwm‘. is a foreseen: 259/; It, in width and ‘2 ft. in
depih, which was adjained by the temple proper {inner length 31 1"“),
Comprising two rows of apartments. The canine}: apartment, with same-
whet slaying sides, mama to have been the main one, an its r“ M and
left wells and also the outside of the entrance-well (t0 the le t) bear
traces 0f paintings, representing a king sacriﬁcing to various deizlee. The
name of the limp. Tiberius, amrlﬁeing to the god Elwin, appears here.
The representation en éhe left antside-wal] shows an emiaemr (probably
Hadrian} appearing before a goddess, who seems to be, from the legend,

the tuielery deity if the green (1%\ an) emerald mine, To the left

of this main :1 arsment is a (severed corridor, with a. window, and ad-
jacent is a stamens leading .50 the reef. The {ample was cleared (mm
rubbish in 1873 by Purely Paella, an American in the Egyptian service.

The Ememlxi Kin", which were visited but cenﬁux-y by Bruce (17%
£13} and in this century by Ceillieud (1816-18), Beiwni, anti Ewehey,
were worked by the Arabs, awarding to Kahlil, down 10 she year 1’60 of
the Begins (me All). after whiz-.11 they were abandoned. Hobammed
’Ali nails an unveiling attempt to reopen them. They lie may la the
des’ Saks? and peﬁly on the Geéel Zahdrah, M M. 20 eke N4 '. They are
heat visited from Centre Apuliinopolie, hm may, like Bevanike. be ap-
prouhaﬂ by foilgwiug the can: of the Arabian Gui: from 30965:. The
ﬁrst muse divergee from me med [.0 Berenike M P15935670. Between
(Jenna-Edie and the minea are three old stations. A: the ﬁrst of these
is the name of :- sun-worshipping king cf the 18th Dynasty. Clem to the
seeond, 13 bra. from the Nile, is a temple hewn in the rock, me f'm;la
of Ridéﬂyeh (so called after ﬁlm plane of that name on the Nile; see p. $53),
which Sail 1, dedicated in Amman. Ho meioue stones are new found
in. the emerald mines. To tbs S. of the abet Zahara); lies she village of
Bake'l, with the but: of miners and a rock—lawn temple, with A few Greek
inscriptiuns. Amung these is u. reference to Serapis and the Isis a! Seaside.
Page-26
‘2' . Benésrali.

Bath 1113 ‘Three “Teaki1 and the ‘Four Vv’eeke‘ Tourist Sleamera stop
as Dendeml: in ascending the river, the first halting 3 hm, ska nowné a.
whole day. The mail-sienna)- also halts here for a few hours in descend-
ing the river.

For a visit 60 ﬁlm temple the steamboat: and dhulm‘niye‘nn mum at the
bnnk appositn Kaneh. The éiulnncu to the» temple (abunc '2 BL) is easily
accompliahsd in 1/2 hr. by the wall-equippea donkey: signaling in reaéineau.
Those who wish :0 make a prolonged stay may procure the necessary
conveniences for a night in the ﬁumple from the keeper ‘Ali Efendﬁ. who
lives in Kesneh. The Arabs, however, are afraid of the “girl? or gnome.
The vlslior should not fail to be provldm'l will: damn-as or (butter mm) »
magnuium lamp in: exploring the crypts mil oihax parts of the temple.

The capital of the 6th nome of Upper Egypt (Ra-ti, ‘tlia district

of the place of the presentation of gifta’) appears in the inscriptions
9 ”we“
mule: several names. The two most frequent of these are l‘ a

| 8
9m .2.
in) ‘the town of aolnmm‘, and the secular name <1) Tavrir
<:> a
or ' %0 Tu um 3:14;}, ‘the town of the district enclosed
mm a
by mmpaﬁs’. Frank the latte-.1" are derived the GIeek Tentym and
the modern Dandamh.

We follow the bank of the Nile towards the NZ, through palm—
:rees, and. then proceed to the W. Mmmglx wellntllleé ﬁelds, pass»
ing (right) a farm~nnclosnre gnaréed by yelping (logs; or we may
ride at once inwards the W. in the direction of the Gate ofAugnain:
(p. 88) and. proceed thence to the N, passing a door with unﬁlled
cartouches, to the N. entrance, where the cards of ndmisaion (see
Inked” p. 11“) am slmwn. The wall miniosing the temple is formed
of Nile bricks, aml there is another entranae on the W. side. The
total enclosure is 317 yds. long and 306 yds. wide, and besides tbs
large temple of Esther contains a small summary dedicated to Isis
and a sencalled “birth«house’ (sen below). The N. door, which is in
a; straight. line will: the temple, is only 15" to the E. of ll; but in
the temple—inscriptiens it is always spoken of as the E. entrance,
whila the long Bides of the temple are called the N. and S. sides,
in She following description we follow the true geographical posi—
tion. The N. gate was built under the Emp. Domitian, who is here
named. Gemanicns. 0n the side next the temple appears the name
of News ijanus, also with the epithets of Germanium and
Daclsna.

From the N. 33:45 a modem brick passage lends to the temple.
To the left of this passage lies a building deep—sunken in the de-
bris and wanting its front. Round. it ran a colonnade, the capitals
of which, with the dwaxf-like ﬁgure of the god Bess, project, from
the: 83ml. The femains include a; miller large vestibule (33 ft. by
131/, ft), 5 long central roam, two narrow side-rooms some small
Page-27
k

80 Route 7. DEN’DERAH. 1112111151

chambers and the fragments of a staircase [to the right). This
building is dedie ated to the birth of Home, with whom the son of
each successive menuch is compared Similar Birth-Houses (Egypt.

[2“:
!m r1 pa- mes) called by Champoilian Mameisi (Capt, ‘yiaee of

birth), occur in many other Egyytiau tempies {pp 253 289, etc. 1
The caitsuu‘hes of AumkralOT Kisres, whisk Bathe! presents 1.0 Eo~
1113 Sam taui, have been supposed to refer to Augustua; but the
fact that the latter had no 5011 makes this very doubtful. The ‘hirth-
house’ also conning the names of Txajau am}, Hadrian, to whom it
probably owes its existence. The. paintings rapes-ant the. can; of
the young Horus, who is nursed and ministered to by goddesses and
women with cows’ heads. — We 110w proceed to the temple, either
by ascending over the heaps 13f rubbish, <1: by returning to the N.
gate and walking theme in a. straight direction.

“Temple of Katha: at Dandemh.

This interesting and much-admired building was dedicated to
Hathar, the Egyptian Venus. The Portico (P1. E), which is 111131..
ported by 24 1101111111111, is 139 ft. in breadth. Each of the columns
has a capital formed of four heads of Esther, with cows’ ears,
surmounted by a house, in reference to the meaning of Esther,
Hat (5.6.. image) of Horus. T1111 00111131113 next the entrance Show
an opt->11 11:10:. The six cuiumns in the front row, three 011 each
side of the entrance, axe united by balustmdea. The rubbish round
the temple reaches to the hulustmdes in ﬁght and nearly to the
roof on the E, eide; 1121111311 the. flat): of the temple appeurs sunken
1111111111 remixed by 11 ﬂight (It wooden atepa, Originally, hnwe‘vm‘,
the temple stood level with the ground. and its present appear-
arms li‘. e that 01’ the temlﬂes of Esneh and Edfu, is due to tha sc-
cumulated rubbish of centuries In accordance W: L]: the plan of
other tempies, a 001011113119 and a pyinn should stand in has: of this
partied; but perhaps the means to add these were net forthcoming.
The dute of the temple is given by 5 (21-51311 inscription of three
lines, which rune round the ecu-nice on the exterior of the building
and reads as follows:

THEP. AYTOK?ATGPGZ. TEBEPEOY. KAIZAPOE. NEOIC
EEBAETOT. GEOY. EEBAETOY. T101”. Elli. AYAOT. ATM—
AKGT. @AAKKOY.

HFEMUNUE. KAI. AYAOT. (DSMTIOY. KPIZUUT. EUIE’IPA—
THFOT. EAPAHIQNOZ TFTIXAMBOX ZTPATHFOTNTOZ.

' 01 AUG ”THE. MHTP

(ii—{0111392. KAL TOY. NOMOY. TO. l'ii’i'HWiCiI‘ifa A®POAEI~
Till, GEAI. MEFIZTHI. KAI. TOIZ, EYNNAOEE, GEOEZ.
L {K TREE] SHUT. KAEEAPOQ A8}? KAI:

“Under the ruie uf the Emp. Tiberius, and under he 136 ct Auius
Page-28
HATHOR TEMPLE AT DENDERAH.

~° Engum rm
Page-29

Page-30
Temple. DENDERAH. 7. Route. 81

Avillius Flawns, the governor Anlus Fulﬁus Crispne, and the dis-
trictmgovemor Sampler: Trychambee, the inhabitants 0f the capital
and of the name dedicated the Promos to the great goddess Aphmu
elite and he: fellow—gods, in the twentieth G) year of the Emp. Ti—
berius . g . .’ An inscription recently founrl by llﬁmichen on the
E. sills of the temple infcrms us that this miter wall of the temple
was decorated in the second year of the Emp. Tibeﬁus Claudius
(4‘2. ADJ. There are, however, many representaticns of the Emp.
Nero both insiﬂa and entsiﬁe the temple. The crypts 0! the temple
date from the reigns of Ptolemy X. ,PtolemyXI and Ptolemy XIII.
(Sonar IL, Ptolemy Alexeneier; News Dienysos). The inner iptians
running wand the temple refer to Ptolemy XVI Casan‘on and the
Emp.Ax1gustus.0n the exterior of the rear-W all of the temple ap—
pears Ptolemy Hines, accompanied. by Claupatm V1. and the little.
Cwsnrion; the inscription ls Ptalmis, sumameﬁ Kisrea. In ‘uotlt
cases the Caesarion referral to is apparently the sen of Caesar and
Cleopatrs. The temple wenld thus seem to owe its present form to
the last of the Pwlemias anal the ﬁrst Roman emperors. It is, hens
ever, obvious that the site was previcuely occupied by oléer temple
buildings, going back to the earliest period of Egyptian history.
King Pepi of the 6th Dynasty is repeatedly represented in the crypts.
In one of these crypts (No, 9) the ancient building plan of Den-
(lamb is mentioned twine. The ﬁrst of these menﬁous occurs in the
desarlption of an excursion of the godéeaa to Eéfn an the ﬁrst of
Epiphi: ‘The great building-plan (sent-i) of Ant (Dendarsh) was
fonmi written in antler): characters on him, of the time of the suc-
cesscrs 0f Horus. Found in the interior of the wall of the royal
palace in the time of King Pepi’. Another passage reads: ‘The
great plan of Dendemll, a. restoration of the monument made by
King Bamankheper (Tutmes 1E), after it was found in ancient
nlxarwzm 0f the time of King Khufn’. The priests of Tontyra thus
ascribed the foundation of their temple to Khnfn and Pepi. There
are, however, stones bearing the names of Amenemha 1., Tut-
mes Ill). Tntmes IV” Ramses II. ., and Ramses III, ill of when:
probably either bed It ar restored parts of the old temple.

If we compare the temple of uendereb with a eimiler structure
of the earlier period, such as the temple at Abyﬂns or the great
national sanctuary cf Kamak, we ﬁnd it not less beautiful in its
own way, though of murse far from competing with these gigantic
structures in magniﬁeence mt extent. Its chief sharia/{statistics are a
ﬁne symmetry of proportions and digniﬂecl adaptation to its pur-
poses. A happy blending of Egyptian seriousness with Grecian
grace, which meets us unmistakably at every turn, has a peculiarly
planing: effect, and we feel much more at home in the halls of the
Bethe: of Tentyxe than in the great hall of the god of Thebes, with
its forest of gigantic columns. Neither the ﬁgures nor the inscrip-
tions sculptured on the walls compare in masterly execution _with

BABDRKBB‘ 3 Upper Egypt - H ,
Page-31
82 Route 7. DENDERAH. ﬂuke?

these in the tombs of the ancient kingdom or with {ham yamlisr
to the times of a Seti or a Tuemes; but we cannot refuse our mix
mization even to these products 9f later Egyptian us. Here and
there (AS in seven! chambers of the upper scary} we meet spec-i—
mam) of hasty and poor wokaanship; but as a rule the sculpmm
of Deuﬁerah is pleasing and harmonious in style [uni executed with
a cue that does not evarloak vibe {magnetic detail. The eye is imi—
fm'mly pleased by the harmany of the whole with izs details and by
the great variety of composition which manifests itself in spite of
the prescribszl form to which the artist was commmL

Neither the gene”! architectuxal scheme of the temple as a. whole
no: the style of the details shows any essential variation fmm those
that may be traced in the eaﬂiex Egyptian Eemples. The ﬁrst
apartment, here as alsewhere, is a handsome Ewe-style Hal»; (PL E),
open in from, with 24 massive columns supporting the roof (comp.
p. 93). Next foliows a; roam with six miumns (Pl. D), with three
apaﬂments to the left (xwm; xxx, xx) and three to the ﬁght
(xxx, xxn, xxm). fram the last of which (xxx) 3 passage leads
to the 1'8an chambers beside Ball 8. The next room (PL 0),
with :10 columns, has apartments xvx and xvn on the. left. A
fourth hall (2’1. 3), gsijoined ou the left by a single Apartment
(xxx) and on the right by the suite of three festal chambers (x113.
xxv, xv), 19mg m the Adytum (P1. A), a ions narrow room in
which the sacred beﬁts were hem: From the! passage (Pl. '1} which
encircles the latter, entrances lead into eleven sida~ehambezs {1821:
1v, *7, VI, VII, m, :1, right my, xx, xx, x), which are swayed
round the main ehamber (PL 1) behind room A. There are also a
“limbs: of snare: passages (crygtslg constructeﬂ in the hullsw wall
of the temple on the E. W 311:1“ u. sides. Then passages, which
are aiiﬁcuh of ascess, are in three salaries, em: above another (comp.
p. 96). ﬁnally from the centnl hall 0, éoers 15:11 on the right
Mm left :0 the two stairs which ascend is tha roof of the temple
(camp, yy 91 97}

The Egyptians had special memes for: web banana side—chamber,
for each carridor and staircase, for each door and window, in {m
for each part, great or sum“, of ﬁne mom or less ccmylﬁcetstl temples.
In not a few cases these namus explain the ass of the different
moms; but the only oextain information as to the special namxe of
the vazious apartments is shunted from the Inmipzéam, which
are arranged. u a kind of ornamental 330de above and hahw the
paintings on the wdj, much like. the burden Benn sometimes on alri-
fashioned walbpapuarn. Them iligcxiyﬁons, which are at that gfeuwst
importance both fer the history of uchiteatare and for the explanat-
tion of :he temple-cult, usually have their‘comnt: arranged in the
same order. The nuns of the king. with nil his cities and which}
epimem, is ﬁrst mentioned, fellowezi by the. stammunt the ho hum,
repaired, cempleted, or adorned such and web a. mom, or with and
Page-32
arm. DENDERAH. 7. ﬂame. 83

such a staircase, the name of which is in each use given, folinwed
by is fail a aescription of the room in question and of what £00k
lilacs there, as space will a ‘.low Prof Diimichen uncovered the
inemiption at ﬂu: foot of the exwrie“ wall of the mingle in 1875
(p. 97}, and found that me at Eﬁfu, the names emi dimensions of
the chambers lying to the north were inscribed. on the N, side, and
on the S. side those of the chambers lying to the south. He has
published the inscription with a translation i.

in our dascripiﬁon, we begin with the Hyposﬁylc Hznli m ‘Khent

Kai! (Pl. E). The ﬁrm iarge balk of an Egyptian mmpla frequanﬁy
G
bore the name CZ! Kim”, ﬁe. fmnt room, as is the case here, at

Edfu, at Philae, and elsewhere. It has several tithe: names as wail.
Apparenﬁy with reference to the astronomical repxesentaticns which

aéom both halves cf the ceiling, it i5 fxequemiy named in the in-

U 0 M.“ X i... .
aeriptions F: W} 0 Au! welsh m 6’ Le. Great Hall of

Q Q
the Goddess Nut,_ who as the symbol of the vault of heaven was re»
presented. as a tail woman bemiing her face toweras the earth and:

ietting her arms 112mg down 5 A A malaise} representation of this

sigma in met m eh twice on the ceiling (If the hyyoseyle mom a:
Deuderah, and it is xepeazed twice more, in the apartment maximé
XV. on the plan and in the centre! Osiris—mom on the N. side of
the temple—reef. in the {we last instances it occupies the entire
surface of the ceiking. Aetrongmicej representeciomyhether simyly
golden stars scatterea promiswmrsly on a blue gmund, or actual
copies of the constellations as seen at some pmicniar time, have
been adoptea as a suitable ceiling—decoration in nearly every Egyp-
tian temple and tomb. The two names above given are by far the
commonesc for this am room. but it is also called ‘the seat ofOsiris,
Home, and Isis’, and it is named. in the inscriptions ‘the dwelling
at Battier, the house of the sienna-playing, ﬁe house in which the
tambourine is sounded, the seas of the rapture efjoy, the birth-
piece of 61m éﬂhilvix‘l gmiriess Nut’. The hall is 143 it. broad, 80 ft.
deep, and them 50 ft. high.

0n fasted occasions the image ofthe goddess was conveyed in her
boat to this Hall of Beeven, to meet there the sun-god, her father.
The decorative assigns in this room chieﬂy ccnsist, after zine ancient
Egyptian custom, of representations of the royal builders of the
temple. The Roman emperor: Augustus, Tiberius, Caligula, Ciauéiue,
and New are in turn depicted, each hearing some dedicatory gift:
fer Hat-1101* ox- aome other of em gods worshipped at Dendemh. The
mnmni walk-spaces between the minimum 10 the right and ms; of the
main 1mm} axe each occupied with fear designs, referring ta the

1' Baupanhfchia den Zimdemicmpalx, Shanghai-g1. 1877.
Page-33
_ 84 Roma 7. DENDEBAE. _ Ember

sntranca of the ruler into the sanctuary and to the ceremony of
incense, to which he must submit in the ﬁrst ehemher according to
the prescribed ritual. In the ﬁrst we see the king (Nero) «misting
his palms? preoeneti by ﬁve burners with sacredx ﬁgures, while the
high-priest (mean-ail Airmail—f) offers incense before him. In the
second design, Home and Thanh sprinkle the king with the symbols
of life; in the third, the goﬂdeeees a! the south (Harm) and 0f the
north ( Uas} present him with the white grown and the crown
‘Nei’ert’; in the fourth and last, the king is wnducted before Esther
by the gods Month of Thebes and Tum of Heliopolis. Admission
into the temple proper was not granted to him until after this care-
mony had. been gone through, the sacred garment assumed, and the
puriﬁcation by incense anti holy water completed. The represen»
nations referring to these, anti the explanemry inscriptions, are
quite in the same manner as these we have already noted in the
earlier temples of the time 0f Tntmes and Ramses.

The ecnlytured ornamentation on the ceiling , dealing with
astronomical subjects, is divided inter a W. and an E. half. The
ﬁgures in the W. semen are turned towerds theN. (outside), those of
the other to the S. (inside). Each section is divided into three bands,
most of which consist of two or more rows. The exterior hands of
each section correspond to each other, are do also the central and
inner henna. Between the ewe seetians is another band, containing
10 sun—discs and 11 vultures, explainen by Prof. Lauth as referring
to the gist year of the reign of Tiberius. - The exterior bamls,
whieh are embraced'by a. call ﬁgure of the goddess of tho heavens,
contain the twelve signs of the Zodiac in their upper rows; to the
right those of the 1‘1. sky (lien, serpent instead ofthe virgin, balances,
seemion, archer, gent), to the left or 8., those of the S. sky (water-
carrier, ﬁshes, rein, huLL, twins, crab}. In this row apnea: else the
grinning constellations (Orion, Simian3 Semis) em} ﬁve pinnezs
(Saturn; MintsQ Jupiter, Venus, ami Mercury). Minglecl with the
other ﬁgures are the gods of the twelve hours cf night, on the E. side
in ascending order (Ito X11), mil en the W. side in descending order.

The second rows of the exterior bands each contain 18 ships,
with the ‘Deennf or presidents of the weeks, mentioned elsewhere
in other inscriptions. This long series begins in the W. section and
ends in the E. section. The secend bends, both on the right ami ieft,
consist of twn rows each. At the four ends of the upper rows are the
font Winds, with amended wings, which are enjoined on the ﬁght
(next the entrance) by four ﬁgures of geﬂerei’errlngw Ra, and on the
left by four similar ﬁgures referring to Tum, the god of evening.
Then follows a. series of ‘Decanl’, beginning in the W. and can“
tinned in the E. section, consisting of the abovemmentioned thirty—
six. ‘Decsni' arranged in twelve gmups of three, each conducted by
is president usually in the form of a serpent. The lower rows of the
central bands eenmn, on she right (Wr) the twelve henna of the
Page-34
Temple. DENDERAE. 7. Row. 85

night! on the let‘s (NJ the twelve hours of the any, each with their
eponymous divinities.

The interior band on the W. side exhibits three designs re-
ferring to the menu, which is here represented as % ‘uza’, eye.

In the ﬁrst are the 14 days of the waning moon, in the second the
i4 days of the waiting mam, represented by 14 ciivinitiea ascending
a ﬂight of steps, while aha victorious That}: appears as a. ﬁfteenth
ﬂiviuity beyond the moon—disc. Finally appears Oairls as the moon—
god, seated with Isis and N‘epbthys in a boat, ﬂoating above the
symbcl of the sky 7%“; which is supported by four female forms. ....
In the E. section the interim: band exhibits the course or the sun”
disc through the 12 hours of the day, represented by 4.2 bouts. In
each aiisc appears the ﬁgure of me divinity to which the particular
hour was sacred.

0n the W. side of the hall, between the sectmd and; thin-(l raw
of cahrmns {to the right of the entrance), and on the E. aicle be:-
tween the third and fourth row (on the leﬂ) are Side-Enhances,
through which the sacriﬁcial oﬁfazings used to be brought into the
hall {can}. 1;. 83).

0f the three Proaelcoo Hall: which we next enter, by far the
largest is the hexastyle ﬁrst hell1 the —

Hall of the Ayyemnae (Pl. D)? calleli in theimerlptions weigh
the or Hall of the Appearance, ind ‘Hall of the Apyearmea of Her
Highness’, i.e. Esther, the golden-rayeil. The
inscription ah the foot cf the external wall
gives the measurement of this hall an 26 all:
square, which closely coincides with its actual
size, 451/2 it. square. 0!! fastal days the'image
of the mighty mungoddess was carried in so-
lemn lxrocession from its grime in the holy of '
holies, and was not seen by the multitude as—
sembled in the vestibule until it reached this
ball, when the lefty double doors were thrown
cyan. Henge probably the name efthe hull.

It is a remarkable fee: that except in the
Khent Hall, the sacral: passages, and Room :x
(p‘ 88}, the caﬁouches of the kings in all
the inseriur rooms 01‘ the lemyla remain
(amply. In Room xx the accompanying royal
mmwhea are found: “Lord 02‘ the rulers,
chosen by Ptah’, and ‘Kaieares, ever-living,
beloved by Ptah and 1913‘. The latter, which
is also found on the exterior Wl wall of the
temgxle, probably refers to Augustus, though the same designation
was also need for Call 5111a, Claudius, and ‘s‘iem 0n the E. 61“?“
ml wall of the iample at Daniel-ah and in the trample df Isis in“
Page-35
86 Bonte 7. DENDERAH. Harbor

he, Augustus is constantly indieateri by the accompanying up
touches ‘Autokrazor Kisres’. The temple was probebly built in the
unsettied times of the later Ptolemiee, and the priests were there—
fore left in doubt whether in ﬁll in the earionches with the name of
Pioiemy or of Augustus.

The representations on the wells smi coinmns, many of which
we“ deserve spaniel seﬁenﬁnn, exhibit here also the Egyptian rnier
worshipping Esther or some other of the (iiﬁniries revered in her
temple. They illustrate several most remarkable ceremonies, which
the king yeriormed according to the prescribed ritual in presence of
the images of the gods in the temple. We have seen reason to be»
lieve that the sculptureti riecoraiions of ail the temple—chambers
were exec-uteri about the end of the period of the Pmiemiee and the
beginning of the Roman empire. (The sculptures in some of the
chambers in the sunk-floor and in several of than higher snares pas»
sages, dame from the reigns sf Ptolemies X., XL, and X1171.) Yet in
spite ofihai, the entire adornment on the walisia arranged according
to early Egyptian patterns; 50 that the ceremonies here deyicted
were my: fir“ incroﬂuced under ﬁre empire, am! pmhably no Roman
emperor ever reek part in these ceremonies in this ternnie of Rather.
The wells of the temple at Dendereh exhibit exclusivelyEariy Egypw
tiara Manners and Customs. What we here ieem are the eeremonies
impaired by the prieschood on the early Egyptian menus-sh who de‘
aired in worship the goddess. Thus in a representation to the. right
of the entrance the king apnears twine ever in the same «Resign,
First we see him, clad in a long robe and carrying a stair, entering
the hall, preceded by the priest wearing the panther-shin and
sprinkling incense on the burning eenser. Pier: we see him standw
ing before the image of Hefner, his robe laid snide; bending for
ward he gaea through the motion of clearing the earth with the
short hand-pleugh in his hand, because ii: was an immemorial
custom that ehe Egyptian king should turn the ﬁrst sud on the site
of a temple (In the explanatory inscription here? as nlsewhore,
this eeremony is namecl ‘bai m’, clearing of the ground.) The king
also smote the ﬁrst hlow with the hammer at the ﬂying of the foun-
alatienustone, and shaned the first brick for the enclosing walls,
which were usually built. of nnburneti bricks of Niienmnd dried in
the sun. All these ceremonies performed by early Egyptian monarchs
a: the foundatien ofn temple, are here faithfully recorded awarding
to eariy modcis , both in visible shape and by explanatory in—
scripiionr, They are also recorded in iii-510mm of the four rows
on the W. and E, exterior walls or the temple. In the temple 0!
Home at Edfu the king is represented performing similar cere-
monies.

Another nictnre, also referring to the founding of a mmyle,
appears on the immediezeiy addeining wail. Here the king once
more sppearr before Esther, bearing in his :3!§3§&E§;hif ‘
Page-36
fl‘emyie. DENDERAE. 7. Row. 87

ﬁlms. The ceremony is named in the inscription ‘83“ Building

of the Temple’; and the words glaced in the mouth of the king and
snangsd shave the Klaus run: ‘I have built the monument, thu great
one, as a perfec: building to all eternity". The ceramony :apresented
in ﬁlm follawing design also refers to the building of the temple.
The king, kneeling befote Eathoz, is shown shaping the ﬁrst burned '
brick for the girdle-wall cf the temple. As has alreAdy been men-
ﬁaned in the description of the cult of Hathox, that gmiriess is fro-
quenciy ext-911ml 1n the inguripcions at Danderah as the goﬁdess of
joy, 31 whose festival wine ﬂowed freely and the air was fragrant
with incense and all the perfumes 0f Arabia. Thus, as the inscrip—
tions here inform us, the king mingles grains of incense and wine
with the material out of which he moulds $313 brisk. On both sides
of the pans}. admitting to the 31:11am two long inscriptions, each
consisting of 14 vertical lines. and containing a list of all the names
under which the great Hatho: was worshipped al Dendemh and sisa-
where in Egypt. This is followed by it Rigs of the cilia! gods and:
divine geniuses, those of tha temple at Edl‘u bsing manual in granh
test detail; and ﬁnally comes a list of ﬁne sacred sea-“pelts of Danderah,
which was probably not kept in the temple itself, but in the MI-
joining sacred. groves.

We now enter the Sid; L‘hambcrs, of which there are ﬁbres on
each side. All are of the same size, doﬂneé in the inscripﬁan on me
E. external wall as 111/3 eils long and 61/2 5115 bread. The that

on ﬁlm left Sldﬁ {Pl 301111) was called w A3“. or in the ﬁnite:
‘3 [.3 '

a n w

formjshown 6.9. on one of the staircase—walls) E i; Q
.
{:3

As“. The luscﬂyﬁons here clearly indicaee that the incense, so
lavishly used at this sacral} festivals, was Compeunfled in this room
according to strictly observed recipes in which all kinds of sweet:
smelling ingredients were employed; anﬁ that the holy oils and
ointments for the various'ceremonies were also here prepaxeﬁ. We
may tlmml'om name: tlﬂs apartment tlm Temple Laboratory. 1‘ All the
assigns and inscriptions on the four walls of this apartment refer to
the incense yrepared anal preserveﬁ here; to the oils aml ointments
used in tha temple sezﬂces; and m the various ingreaients of which
tlmy ware camgosed. Two sevenmﬁned vertical inscriptions on the
two parts of the entrance~wall contain what is to a. certain extent a
summarized description of ﬁle regsresentaﬁons on the Mljoining walls
to the right and left. On eaeh wall are two representations, Ls. four

a
1* Chemistry derive! its name from ﬁlm land of Khem called

a
132—; "”275!

 

 

‘hlack lamd‘ {tom i314: dark colour of its soil.
Page-37
88 Home 7. DENDERAH. Haﬂmf

in all. They exhibit the royal builder of the laboratory warshipying
Mfam Humor, Isis, Hams: with the Horus ofEdfu, am} Isis with Hm
ms Sameaui. 1!: We of the designs the king is accompanied by mm af
the lords of the laboratory, once with the divine Maeler of Anointing

j Mam, once with Hams, zhe lord afhe labs.
n (—37.1 W“ -

miory % I"? i in the other ﬁve, by a goddess and two Pam’s-
haadml divinisies, who also sound in some relation $0 the work of the)
lubomtozy. Both the king and his companions offer some of the
costly perfumes of the laboratory to the gods above named.

The room next the laboratory 1: Pi. 35.x) is named in the inscrip—

\ Q
tiens here found simply mm Saki, which means ‘nssemmw

room’, ‘reomi, ‘haﬂ’, ‘apartment’. Anindioation as to its former usa
is afforded by the representations on the walls, which éepicc the
king offering the ﬁrst fruits of the ﬁelds, plants, ﬂowers, and fluits,
:0 Esther and her feiiow—divinities. Several times in the accom—
panying inscripeions Katha: is extolled as ‘ahe who produces all
things" ‘ﬂlé nourishmpm-giving’, gshe who grovides food am} drink,
from whom everything comes that heaven bestawa or the earth
brings foxth’. From these representations and inscriptians it may
safely be mncludea that this room was speciaﬂy dedicated ta the
great Hathox as the deity who bestowed lift) and created and pros
served 3.11 things, and that we oﬁ‘erings imanéed for Katha: were
placed hexe on her ﬁesta] day.
Q a

ﬁn

Jim-”(2b, ic. ‘the inner central room’, or the Hiddic Boom, probably
because it lay between Hail D and the E. siée—entransﬁ cf :he
temple, which opened into this roam (comp. p. 89, Room mm, on
elm opposita side). Exam the inscxigtions we learn that it “ms mad
for £113 reception of this offering; which were» brought into 6X33
temyle by the side—entrance. It has been mentioned above {p.
85) that in a xapresentation in this zoom {beside the door of Exit)
the royal caﬂouches above the monarch worshipping Katha: have:
been ﬂ‘led m with ‘ha ofﬁcial name cfAugustus, wher as elsewhere
the cartouc'hes are lei' vacant.
0n the opposite I’W. ) aide of the hell are the ems-chambers
m, m, and mm: The last two appeu from their representations
and inscriptiuus to have hem uged for preciseiy the same gum-poms
.18 the corresponﬁirxg chambem on the E side The ﬁrst (P1 XXI),
however ta the right of the entrance, is shown by its adornmant
and its insczlpcions to have balm out; of the two. trﬁa ‘ of ﬁle

The next. room (PL xx] is calm} in the inscriytions
Page-38
Tmptg. DEEDERAH. 7. Route. 89

Q
temple. It bears the name CE: L1 5.6. Silver Room, and its re-

prosentntions and inscriptions refer almost exclusively to the pre—
eious metals and. pracieus stones, or to various kinds of ornaments
for the divine images or other costly temple—utensils made of the
yrecious mazerials deposimﬁ here. In ﬁlm doorway the monarch is
rapresenaea in the ace of wearings and presenting to Hath-r a
jewel-casket, which a hieroglyphio inscription at the monsrch’s feet
states to contain gold, silver, hols-lazuli, and malachite. The
goddess thanks the grim-o for his offering, with the words: 'I bestow
upon time the mountains to proéuco for $3193 stones to be a delight
for all to sse’.

The 11““;ka Inseam-news afford farther information as to the former
use of this room. The lower larginal inscription, in the half running
{mm rijxl. to left, is as follows: *Ho has built the Silver (Mower for
lbs 01 on one. as n building for eternity, he has séomeé it with a mul-
mu 5 of stones, wish all me wondsrfnl gems of the mountains, so as to
ma than for all manner of work in the sample of Dendsrah‘. In the
other half the inacﬁpﬁon reads: ‘Ho has bull: the lordly abode for the
Humor of Tenlyrii, as a noble monument: for-eterony. He has furnished
it wiih precluus stones and all We producla of the minaunmins.A so at: to
‘15s them for all manner of work in the (hid (Ehurnbnn These were re-
qnired to make of them Shs furnishing there, standing :0 m sou-ea
prece to for the executlon a! the work for me Tau-lob n dmy (H, for the
snarl olal ceremonies that iook place thrice a day). All she noticeable
gems are plaoed in 1‘33 interior as the threefold beautiful, on both sides
of the Princess's sllvehchmnller, which is furnished with iis requirements,
Moor-ding to the precepts of the ancienis referring tiger-etc”. The morn
here and. elsewhere nmed the Gout (Mamba? is in the central story of
the temple, and is entered from the W. stair-easel In this room, if we
have inserprcted ﬁlm inscriptions night. were mark: all kinds of statucitos.
necklaces and bracelets for the sacred images, amulela, and other precious
articles used in the iemple~ssrvlces, by gnldsmillli: working according in
strictly preacribcd rules and under also immediate coniwl of the high
priests. Possibly, however, such articles were only repaired here.

The lower part of the wall of the silver chamber is ﬂocoratcd
with a representation of consumable geographical importance. as
the farther end, on the wall to the right of the entrance, appears
the emperor offering ‘a golden necklace so: with precious stones’ to
Isis, who is accompanied by Horns3 and on the opposite. wall the
monomer again sppesrs with a similar ornament bofore Rather and
the sun-god Horns—Sawmill. In each case the monarch is followed
by thirteen men carrying offerings, all of whom are typical repre—
senzatlves of foreign zribos, some from the mountain—districts of
Upyor and Lower Nubia,‘ some from the districts lying to the E.
aml W. of 11:5 Nile valley. The name of tho home of each is in»
scribed over his head, anti over the casket or vase which each bears
in his hands appears the name of Rs contents, among which are
silver, gold, electmmi malachite, lspis-lazuli, mineral (lye-Smilax,
am! minor precious mom of the mineral kingdom,

The second mom on the right. or W. {PL XXII) shares with
Room I: (p. 88) the name Middle Room, beosnse i‘ has aw. 3*
Page-39
90 Route 7. DENDERAH. Humor

trainees, cue from Hail D, the other {mm without, According to
the Exterior marginal inscription this was the room set apart for the
libations, and the door from the outside is named. in an inscriytion
on its exterior, ‘the portal for the entranea of the priest of tbs
libations, with the ewe: for the Mistress of the gods”. This room
alga has an interesting geographical representation on the lower
yart of the wall, in which seven waterbdisiricts of Lower Egypt,
conducted by the ruler of Lower Egypt, are seen approaching Eathor
and ﬁorus. — The third room {PL 31.11:) on this side is named in
themarginal inscriptions ‘the room for the Mistress in the town
of the Hausa of Hathor’; ‘the team of the hall that lies bahind the
hall of the altar’, and “the divine hall of the Golden One, the
daughter of the sun, (lying) on the left side, where the left stair-
Case {is situated}. The chief exit from this room leads into Halli),
while annt‘ner smsﬂer door {to the left of the entrants) admits an
a narrow passage communicating at one end with the Hal! of the
Altar (Pl. G), and at the other with the Siaia‘case (p. 91,! leading
hence to the roof. Farther on this passage lame to the ‘Ghiel‘h‘estal
-Room’ (PL 1.111; comp, pt 94). Mariette included Room xxx: in
the snilwa of fiesta} chambers, because it has direct communiaation
with the festal Hall m: and Rooms XIV and xv lying behind the
latter.
Proceeding now in our course through the temple of Rather,
we next enter the central Prosekcs Hall, or Hall of the Altar (Pl. 0)

,, :4: 5530
as it is termed in the inacriptiong m D W41 . it is about
a

45 ft. wida and 18 ft. deep. The E, insc‘n‘ptia‘n on the external
temple-wall states that the ceremonies of the ‘oﬁering of the divine
thinga’ (sacrlﬂeas) were carved in this room, along with the gods of
the sacriﬂdal altar; and the W. inscription namaa it 93113 ‘rasting‘
place oftlm Mistress cf the Goddesses’. The inscription: on the
upper and lswer margins aﬁord additional information as to the
.orginal purpose of the mom, its deeoratians, and the festivals cele—
brated within it. The uPper inscription, in tha half running from
right to left, is as follows: ‘36 has built tha Hall of the. Altar for
the Princess adorned with this vulture and the Uranus-crown, the
Wise goddess. It resembles heaven, with its lord the sun-god. Ht
has richly loaded the altar for the revered goddess within it. — The
gods sre tamed within it, as is seemly; the sacred oﬂeﬂngs are
laid at the foot of he: throne with the uemmonias aggregating; ta
the cult of Rather. The namas of the gods and the: names cf the
place are inscribed on one 9f the walls in it, and the serpent—deities
of iienderah are likewlae recounted within it’. The last aentencs
refers to alist beside the dam" to the side-room xvm‘, which ra-
connts tha names of the temple of Dendarah and its chief rooms, the
deities worshipped there along with Rather, mdlﬁa titles of the
Page-40
Temple. DENDERAE. 7. Route. 91

priests and priesteases; details by name the sacred ponds, groves,
11595 and Bargains of the Empie—enclosurm and the sacred boats of
Rather used at the fesrtlvals; ixxemiona the day (if the chief feaﬁval
at Dendemh; and concludes with the name of the temple—ﬂomains
am! that {if the territory behind it in the Home of ’l‘entyﬂs. The
zepresentttions on the walls correspond :0 the marginal inscriptions.
Thus (we: the Emma} by which we enter is a double representation
of the ruler of Egypt In one case he stands befsre the altar 11f
Hither, in the ether before that of isis, yerforming the ceremonies
of offering incanse and iibatiou. This he does in his capacity as
chief pontiff, as the accompanying inscription implies: ‘Ti‘r-a sun?
the 9011 of the, sun (the emperor Augustus), 11s 1111'th of the incense
(‘iuni at the seat 0' fragrance“) offering 111121-1119 to his mother, and
S: priest of this libations, holding the vessel of libation The rear—
wall opposite bears several representations of the monarch express~
i115 his homage in offerings to Hathor, who is accompanied by Horus
a: her son Ahi.

The ﬁrst side-door, to the left of the entrance in E 11 C admits

119 to a nan-(1w ante—room (Pi. XVII), named E ‘1 ﬁg i" J ale.
1 , .4

StaircasesRoom, in the inscriptions. A: the farther anti um four
steps, beyond which a ﬂoor, opening or: the right, leads into the
iarge 51211301152 HALL, whence an easy stone staircase ascends
straight to the reef. This, hall is in complete darkness as it is
roofed over and admits no light from the sides. Another ascent to
the roof is {12111111 on the opposite or W; side (11“ Hall 0, reached by
a door to the Sight of the entrance to that mom, and 11150 by a
smaller approach from Room XXIII (comp. p. ‘30}. This second
ascent is not by a straight and dark ﬂight of steps, but by a kind
of 93111111 staircase, with ten rectangular bends to the right, lighted
by means of openings pisrcing the wall diagmmiiy and widening
towarés the interior. The reptesentations and inscriptions in the
ante-moms to the right and left and on the walls of both staircases
refer exclusively to the entrance to the halls and the ascent of the
staircases (m the: Great Nam; T'cm‘s Feslimh 011 that occasion the
ceremoniai procession of the priests with the images of Father and
he: fellow-gods, afta: comyleting the circuit of the lower rooms,
ascended t0 the roof of the temple, in order that ‘thc goddess Ha~
that might be uniteé with the beams of her father Ra, 011 this noble
day, the festival day of the beginning of the yea!"

The most comprehensive idea of the festival is given by the
represeurations on the two walls (emu abeut 115 ff long} of the
straight East Staircase which 1111- "‘1 113 fxom Roam xvn‘ The left wall
presents 11:; with a View Of the processiuﬁ asnenﬂing ii‘um the lowez
rooms of the temple so that it is advisable to begin our inspection at
the top of the staircase. An explanatory inscription of 13 lines
closes with the fouemng words: ‘She comes at he: btam‘fd ' .Vﬁl
Page-41
92 home 7. DENDERAH. Rather

the festival of the beginning of the year, that her spirit may unite in
the heavens with her father (the sumgodRa ] The goddesses use feao
ﬁve, the goddesses arejoyful, when the right eye unite: with the left
eye. She rests on he: throne in the pianu for hehoiding the sun’s
disc, when the bright one unites with the bright one. He: eycla
(If gmls is at her right hand anti at her left; she yrobecta her he-
lovedx son, the sun {£42. not the’sun—god but his earthly represen-
tative, the reigning king of Upper and Lower Egypt)’. The above—
mentioned union of the ﬁght eye with the left eye, it. of the sun
with the moon, at which the New Year’s festival at Denderah took
place, is one of the astronomical epechs of the calendar veilevl
in mythological language by the Egygtian priests. We next dis—
sexu upon poles the images of ; jackai and of an ibis, the sym—
bois of Anuhis as guide of the dead and of the god Thoth, which are
«Inscribed in an eight-lined vertical innari‘ption, after which the
explanatory inscription is closed by ﬁve more lines, as follows:
‘0 Rather, than ascendest the staircase in the town of the double—
sweet life, in crder to gaze 111x111 thy father on the day ofthe New
Year’s festivaL Thou hetnkast thyself to the roof of thy temple in
company with thy cycle or” goés. The Bukenhenu oi Denderah are
before thee, to avert harm from thy path, to purify thy way, to
cleanse thy road from evil , at the double union in the sun's room
on thy temple-rant”, whose «inure are npeneil to thee‘ Thou takest
thy 113366 on thy throne opnoaite the sun-gen with his beams, at
thy sides thy terrible attendant spirits on the seats of Hathor‘s Out-
look on the Sun‘s Disc (3. name of the temgle of Denderah). A11—
cestral mether of the gods, thou nnitcst thyself with thy father Ra.
in thy festgl chambar (Le. probably the small kiosqusmlihe pavilion
on the reef oi the temple)”. The above—mentioned. Bukenkenu
were images borne upon poles — small ﬁgures of gocls and god-
éeeses, sacred animals, and other symbolic-211 objects — which were
carried in fight of sol-311111 processions. Then follow regreuenmtiona
of the persons taking part. in the proaession; the king and queen
of Egypt and priests and priestesses some carrying the Bukenkenn
(thirteen in number) or hol ding the prescribed oﬁeringa in their
hands, and some persouatiug diﬂ‘erent tgods 11ml goddesses, and wear»
lng masks representing} inns, bulls oxen etc Anmng the latter may
be pointed out the lionwheaded per son (No.16 in order), walking
behind the chief master of ceremonies who' 13 r'hanting a hymn en-
graved on the tablet in. his hand; the priestess (No. 24), hearing
a» cow’s head as representing the xnllk—yieiﬁing his—cow, ‘who
nourishes the mothers with what comes fram her breasts’; and the
two priests (Nos. ‘28, ‘29} with bulla’ heads, representing Apis ma
Mnevis, the two sacred hulls of Memyhis and Heliopolis. The rear
of the prneessinn is brought up by man hearing the sacred shn'nas
with the divine images. First comes the shrine with the chief image
at Dentierah, that of the goddess Eaihor, then the ten shrines of her
Page-42
Temple. DENDERAE. 7. Route. 93

fellow—god‘s, among whom wera three other images of Rather, four of
Horns, and me each of Ahi, Osiris, and Isis.
The Second Side- Room (Pl. xvr) on the 16% side of Bali C, is

W, :3.me
namedin the inscriptions 5357\le n ‘rhe ante-
g E HQ ma EH: D

chamber belonging to the Hall of the A123: , while in the exterior
marginal inshriphions is is called g ; \J( Sci: pug, intarpretad by
¥

Diimichen as Room of Puriﬁcation. It was probably used in the
preparations for the festival ceramonies that took place in the ad—
joining Hall of the Mmr; and among its inesripﬁens in homnr
of Rather is one that seems t0 indicate that the temple at Denéerah
is to be regarded as a replica of a. miebrated temple of the nun—god
of Heliopolis, of which howsver rm trace new remains. Hera a
reference is made to the gilding and painting of the sculptured or-
naxuenmticn, which are so often mentioned in ﬁhe inscriptions,
A. careful examination of the walls in some of the rooms will still
detect trades here ami there of this painting.
We now pass zhrough the central portal in the rear-wall of Hall
0. and enter the last of the Pressman Halls This is the Hall of the?
.
Gyale of End: (P113), named in theinecriptiona EN; 6’ R i

Health pautmiem, or ihT Egg 6 o Hir ab 11.42 Middﬂa Hall
“J "'0 1:":
The whom 01' ﬁre sculptures and inscriptions in this room refer t0

Harbor in her capacity as goddess of light, who has her seat in the
sun 5 disc rising from the hogzom and who was as such represented
under the ﬁgure of an hawk with a woman’s head. in the middle of
the disc rising on the sun-mountain. {With this we may compare
this representation: of the goddess ahova the mantra portal in tho
rear—WM}, 5.6, above the entrance in the Aniytum A.)

The adjoining 1"on to the left (PL xii) is named in the in-

.1
scriptions 151 ix. the 050th Raom or Wardroée. It was thin
repository for the sacred wreaths and gar-ems, with which the
images of Eathor and he: fellow—gods were adorned at the festivals
celebrated in the iempie and aemetimes M the great new year's
festival, Acnorﬂing to this sculptures and inscriytious the prepared
nerhxmes were akin placeri here. One half of the room was ﬁevomd
20 the garments, the other to the sacred perfumes, Over the latter
presided. the divine Mazet, previously mentioned among the man—
agers of the manufacture of the incense and anointing oil as one of
the lords of the laboratory ‘1) 88} over the former Eathozep, god
of woven fabrics, with his company ion the goddess Tai, held swvj.
The sculptured ornamentation on the walls is aiso arranged in har—
than}! with this division of the roam. ‘
Page-43
94 Home 7. DENDERAE. Hanoi

The apposite side-(don: on the right, side of the hall, leads to
three cnnnected Rooms (Pl. xiii, xiv, and xv), whinh to a min
extent form a special enclosed sanctuary, within the large temple.
We see here {.1} the small temple (PL 1v], open in from: and some-
what higher than the two preceding rooms, and entered by a portal
between two Hath” columnss npgmuched by seven stays; (2) the
nmoofed fore-001131. (Pl. xiv) ; and(3) the small ante-mom (P1. xiii),
forming a connecting link between the staircase and Ream xxiii as

gm.
.5.

l
E“?- {3;} l3
Chiefi‘astal Chamber3 is occasionally {bestowed upon all. three menus

in the inscriptions? both on account. of tilt: yrenaratﬁons hem made
far the chief festival at Benderah, the great. new year’s festival on the
morning ofThoth 1st, and on account of the pieliminary celebration
before this festival, which was alsa conducted in this suite of rooms
with great splendour by the priests of Rather, ‘on the day of the

Night oithe Child in his Cradle’< {I} ? T?) T $ (3), Le.

the 41h Epngonxann or lnthmalaﬁad day, on the night of which the
closing featlval of the Egyptian year began. Most of the 1’81)me-
tations and inscriptions refer to these festivals. Besides this common
name each of the three apartments had a. special name. No‘ xv was

\ a
called 3% 2; q Le. "ltoom of the Blight Light‘, after the large and

beautiful painting on the roof. As on the two halves of the ceiling at
Hall E (3;. 83), the heavenly vault is here personiﬁerl as a woman
withnendent arms, the ‘celeatlal Nut, the bearer of the light-beam'.
She is hem depicted withthe sun rlslng from her lap, its beams co-
ven‘ng the sunnmountain niaced 1n the centre and surrounding with
their splendour the head 0:“ Rather, which is represented with
radiating tresses as resting upon the sun—mountain.
The entrance - chambex adjoining the uncovered fore-court
Pl. xiv), and affording also communication with the W‘ staircase
. 91], is inﬁicatell by its sculptured ornamenution as a sec-51ml
{:1

0E1

wall as between Halls (3 anti B. The name

treasurew chamber. Like ileum xxi (p. 88) it was named I

11:. Silver Chamber; and it was also calleti the ‘awre—xoam’.

We now return to 1131113 in order to visit thence the innermost
paxt of the temple, ‘the hidden secret nhamhers', as they are called
in the inscriptions, the rooms of Lhe Selina. Thane consist of the
Atlytnm, 0: Holy of Holiei, occuwing the centre; and the 11 side-
rooms around 1:, I to v: on the right, vm to XI en the halt. The
entrances to thesu are frcm the conldora, which surrounds the
Aalycum on three sides and is reached from Hall 3 by the two doors
on the right anti left. ‘

The Hilly of 301362! was the central hall A, which was named
Page-44
Tmpie. DEWERAE. 7. 120m. $5

:3 Q .
m (,3) llm ‘Dwellxng of the golden one’, or the ‘Chambor oi‘ the

golden-beaming one' — ‘oi‘ the noble —— of the beautiful — of the
goddess‘, also ‘tlie room of tho gront throne“ - “the repository of
the sacred boat’, the ‘suuomary’i. Here the lord of Egypt. alone
is depicted. He, the living type of the beautiful Horus, the son of
the sun, the child of ﬂatly)! [as the Pharaoh is frequently named
in this temple of Bother), She visible represemative of the deity,
and as ruler of Egypﬁ the incorporation of all the. temyoral interests
of the state, he is was alone, to judge from the representazions and
inscriptions, whose sacred person might enter the holy of holies and
in solitude commune with the deity. Only once a year was this
permitted even to him, at the great festival of the New Year. We
here see the monarch opening the door of the sacred cells, closed
with a sealed band of byblos. He breaks the seal and removes the
strip of byblos (scsh icbtu and other atem), he places his hands in
the two rings on the door and thrush; back the bolts, asnends the
5:91»; leading to the cello, and ﬁnally gazes upon the hidden ﬁgure
of the goddess, and offers his homage. Oeher designs exhibit the
monarch performing the prescribed ceremonies of oﬁ'erlng incense
before the two sacred boats of Haihor and her comysliion, Horus of
Edfu, and before tho beam of Isis and her companion Osiris. The
portable boats (Tea—nsfm, 5.5. ‘tlxe bearers of beauties), which are
here depicted on the side—wells, formerly stood in Room A, and
held the shrines in which were the sacred images of the deities,
Thu shrines were carried. in solemn processions by the priests,
sometimes without the boats, as 9.9. at. (.le new year’s fessival re-
presented on the staircase (p. 91), and sometimes standing in the
boats.

The Sidcwrcoms of tho Adymm are, as mentioned nbovo, enacted
from corridor a. Behind the Adytnm, to the 5., lies No. i, the
Large Chamber, the largest and most sacred of these side-rooms.
The sanctity of this chamber is evidenced by the painting, in which
the king is portrayed exactly as in the Adytum itself, ascending the
stops to the shrine of Hatllor, breaking the seal, and opening the
doors, grasping the handles in his howls. Noteworthy also are the
regreaentaﬁons of the king oﬁ’sring vases of wine to Hachor and
to Ahi, her son, in each case followed by a harp—playing goddess of
the north and of the south. Two 0‘: er pictures royresent Pepi, the
original builds: of the temple (p. 8i), kneeling before Rather,
bearing Alli in his hands, and the later builder with a. mirror before
the goddess in a double shrine. The inscriptions give the dimen-
sions of these images and state that may were made of gold, so that

 

+ hlnriotis recognixeaxmly a stars-mom in this 115111 A, and plaees
the Adyium rnpsr in Room 1 behind Fall A (Demiérw’s, Dasvriplion
tundra”, p. 1 ).
Page-45
96 new 7. DENDEBAH. Hothor

they were probably preserved in this room or iis recesses. The
morn is also named ﬁle Chief Apartment and the Dwelling ofHaehor.
-- Room xx is called the Vase Room, The wail-sculgtnros Show
ilxua king offering vases to the goddess. — Room In is the. Sistmm
Room, with corresponding regresentstions. -———— Room rv {imme-
diately to the left of the entrance to the corririor a) is the Room
of me Maturation of the Body. -—n Room 1? is named the mew
place [muslilon} Here lsis was brought to lied in the form of 3.
black and red woman. A large representation shows Thom and
Klmnm, and the king and queen before Isis and Nephthys. ——
Rnom v: was the Saviour Room, in which Osiris—Sour renewed. his
limbs, The adjoining Room vxx also belonged to the worship of
Osirlsl 19. is named Sam zrwi, ‘nnion of the two lands’, booausa,
according to an inscription ‘the rays of his son unite in it with his
body at the noble new year‘s festival’.

Room mi, on the right side of the Adytum, was called the
Chamber of Flames. Hallie: is here rogrosented as the goddess
Selrhot, who excerminares ovil with ﬁre. m Room Ix is $216 Throne-
room of Ra. Here Elie monarch before Horns transﬁxes the crocodile
with his lance, symbolizing the slaying of his enemias. —— The ﬁrst
door on the right side cf corridor «2 admits to Room x, named after
11:; sculptures the Room of Ahi (son of Ember} but alsn Know of
Purifying. ~———— Roam xr adjoining is the Room of the Menu Necklace.
A design in the doorway shows she king parenting the necklace
to Hillier.

We have now concluded the survey of tho sysmnams on this
ﬂoor. Before ascending to the roolr of the lamina, we should visit
two of the subterranean chambers which claim attention not only
for their remarkable construction “but also for the fresh tints of their
paintings‘

The sample. at Denderali contains ‘nn towns than 1‘2 Crypts [or
14 if we reckon seyarazely the parts of those that are divided),
constructed in the thickness of the temple—walls, and lying both
shoves and below the level of the tomplwﬂoor, some isolated, onsets
in two or three armies. The walls of these are no less richly adorned
with sculyruro than tho rooms we have already insyocted. Theywere
doubtless used for storing the precious articles and imagesreqnired
for the temple-services. Their decorations date from the reign of
Ptolemy XIII. Auletes (81-52 15.03], and are thareforo older than
the ﬁscal-aliens 0f the sample proper, wliiolx were ﬁnished under the
Roman emperors from Augustus to Hero. The arrangement and
entrances of these passages in the diﬁ'arent stories are shown in tho
small Plans n, m, and Iv. Some are approached by narrow flights
of stops descending from the templenyavemcnt and formerly 9011-
ceuled by movable stone-slabs; others we entsr by climbing 01'
creeping through very narrow openings, sometimes lowdown, some-
times high up close to the moi, but always in the inner wall of the

 

L.............4
Page-46
izm nm<3m 3. «mm amiaurm >ﬁ wmzcmmbz.

 

1E§§mﬁﬁ¥ .WWWMWWWMW
Page-47
,wtrwu ﬁwgmmﬁmm ”E. ..
Page-48
Temple. DENDERAH. 7. Route. 97

sorrennomiing temple room. Six of tho iwelvo crypts axe. boneatli
the granndvlevel, and of these two area in the ﬁrs: hypostyle hall E
(Nos. if. and £31 in Pl. II). The entrance to crypt No. 10 is in
loom xxm, adjoining Hall D. 05 the remaining three subterranean
oxygts (Nos. 1, 4e, 7), the ﬁrst is only acoossible by a ﬂight of song’s
descending from crypt No. 2, which lies above it and is entered by
an opening in the wall of Room VII. The discomfort; of the climb
us compensated in this out: by the eight of two orypts, the lower
one. the largest of all. consisting of 7 chambers, and ﬁlm upper om:
adorned with representations and inscriptions in unusually good
preservation. No. 4, entered from Room VIII, and No. 7, from
Room xzv, are closed. with doors, which the Minnie—keeper will open
on request. Good stone stairs lean to both. and no visitor should
fail to visit at least these two nrypto. Magnesium wire or a lamp
will be found useful in examining the painted walls. 0n the stair-
cass leading to No. 4 occurs a mention of a festival celebrated on the
4th Epagomene (lay, and Witllin me crypt is a paincing of king
Pnpi, kneeling and offering a golden slalom of Alli. All those
statues, whose dimensions are given, were yrobably key: in me
crypts. Still more important are the inscriptions in crypt No. 9
[mentioned on p. 81), which is entered by a very narrow hole high
up in Room x. Tile calendandates of festivals instituted by Tut"
mes 111. (1700 13.0.) are here found. Mention is also malls of the
fact that the ancient glam of the temple under Gheops wss :e—dis-
covered in she reign of King Pepi (6th 135711.).

We now asoend one of the staircases mentioned on 13. 91 tn
the Temple Roof. Caution must be observoo on account of the holes
made in the roof to admit light and air to the rooms below. At tho
SW angle of the roof stands a small open pavilion, supgporeod by
12 columns, which played an imyortam part (luring the solemn
procession at the festival of the new year (1). 91). We pass through
this pavilion in passing from the E. staircase to the W. chambers.
The W. staircase, which ascends in successive ﬂights, loans post a
room in the middle. story, probably used as a: workshop for resulting
and repairing the statues and utensils of the taxnplo. Six chambers
on the roof, three on the W. and three on the E, the ﬁrst in each
caso being nnroofod. were usod in the worship of the slain anal risen
Osiris, as curious roymsentaeions indicato. The seconé room on
the E. sine formerly contained the famous Zodiac of Damiemh, now
in the Bibliothéque Nationale at Paris.

Finally a walk round the outsido of the temple will be found
inlnresﬁng. The: Emwipliam, ﬁt) frequently referred to above. which
contain the names and dimensions of the various apartments of the
temple, were laid bars by Prof. Diimichen in1875, and after being
copied. wero again covered up. The projecting lions’ heads on the
sides of the building, probably intoudoti to carry all tho rain—water.
should be noticed. A: the left corner of the ram-«wall is a Portrait

Bsnnnnnn’s Upper Egypt
Page-49
98 Route 8. KUFT. From 757':th

of Cleopatra, with the sistxum and the Mama-necklace. Before his
mother stands Ptolemy Kisres, or Csesarlou, the son of Caesar, eﬂ‘er-

mg incense» Boil: are worsllipgi‘ng Isis and her son Horus.

Behind the temple 0! Humor is a. Tample 32131:, csnaisﬁng 05a
vestibule anal three chambers. The unattractive and nninterestlng build-
ing, which is partly covered with rubbish, owes its origin to the emperor
Augustus The gale facing tins E. ham-s the Egyptian aarmuches of Claudius
and Feta, and twa Greek inscriptions on the entablaiznra mention the
2139. year of Tiberius. This gateway marks me limit 92‘ £115 temple area
in this diractisn; and about 10 min. fax-Rm.- an m; mach walks: gate,
which apgarencly balanged ta Home: temple-precinct It bcars the car-
touchs nf Antoni’mxs.

S. From 36ml: ta Thalzes (Elmer).

47 M. Ssisxaou in about 5 hrs. Cook‘s mail-“same: halls for
2"]; hrs. M Kaleb on Wed. and Sat. warnings on “.8 downwani voyagc,
and crosses thence to Dandem‘n.

Kemh, see 13. 7‘2. The steamer passes ﬁbres islands. 0:: the
W. bank lies the village of Baum, with clayndapcsies from which
most M the ‘Kaneh pottery’ is made (12. 75). Balms (311. of Bums,
nameﬁ. after the village), ‘Kﬁlal (pl. odelle), and other kinds ofjars,
some of considerable size, lie on the banks awaiting shipment.

121/2 M. (E. bank) $115); the ancient Mamas, nearly opposlm
Ballﬁs. Though now 01' no imponalwe, this plate 1mm «imam m the
aims of the Khalifs a populous and thriving trading-town.

Even in antiquity a canal, mentlsned by Sta-abs and still
trasuablo, led from tbs Nile t0 the walls 01' thetown, past which the
Canal of Swim (p 199) new ﬂows. One of the stones of ths bridge
is saiti to bear the name of an Antefﬁiz‘n 13:111.); and there is also
a Greek inscription from tha same place, of the 3th year of Trajan
and dedicated to the cricoloursxl Isis. To the S. of ills town and on
ﬁlm 1-0311 leading Ln the «laser: are various remains of ”mime build-
ings. One of these is a square pillm‘ of reel granite, bearing a
dedication by Tasman III. to Amman Ba, and ayparentl'j a. relic
of a temple built by that monarch. Still farther to the S. is a
narrow passage, with inscriptions of the reign of Cains Caligula,
éeﬂicated to Khem Ra of Kapws upon his Staircase (wrap. p.173).
The stall-case with 14 sscemiing and 14 descending steps typiﬁes
the waxing and waning moon (comp. p. 86). The boat of Khan),
home by four priests, is here depicted, and hesme it is an mitimss
to the pYiEEtS of Khem “pan his Siaimaas. The most consléerable
relics of antiquity, a fragment of black granite, yzobsbly part of
an altar, lies :0 the NA It comprizes an exaltatlcn of Khem, Isis,

am} Hell (eternity) by Ptolemy Xlll. Nacs Diauysus.

Kopln: is menlinned on vary early monuments am! i150 ‘lly Steaks
and Rama“ at a late period. Thenp‘mnsms, Pauwniu, Athanmu, Plumsh,
Josephus, Elisa, Lucian, Stephsnus of Byzamium, Agathsrchides, Pliny,
Ammlanus Marcelllnuu, Apulelus, and many other aulhnra, all mention
ﬂ, proving the wiérlpspread fame of the city. It. was espeainll fungus
for its commerce. The trade/scum. which new leads from oggr on the
Red Sea to geueh, fnrxuesly curled at Kuptos, where Ni caved
Page-50

Page-51
from

 

ﬁnal to Demhid.

1: 1.000000
Page-52
to Thebes. {0415. 6‘. Route. 99

the gocds transported hither on camels, or, at an earlier period, (In uses,
as is ex ressly mnnﬁoncd in “‘3 great Harri: Papyrus 'Ramsas III.

4320 13.6. The desert-yams :0 [(0:33 united with ma. from Kane}: at al-
Karn befure Lukétnh (9." I ). Kopios euly became an em oriuxn for my
kinds of guods Inscriptions of (she BIhI Iiyn am {mum by 3 s siﬁs of the olri
trade-muse to tbs Rani Sea 2.: the Widi Hamimit (p. 76). In a. temb at
Benzlwun belonging 20 Amer-J, uprineely ofﬁcial under the 12:1: Dyn., is
an inner-1 tion recordi ng the treasures bmugnc by Ameni to Kopms in
the train of the crown-prince Usertesen. Kopﬁos was mes apical of the
ﬁfth Home uf Unper Egypt, which bore two hawks on ii; banner. Its

nsme appem in hieroglyphics as 23 jg Kati and 5&9- kc. $321341;

in Coptic it in Kef! and Ksblo; in Game}: 01:19:, Kaﬁm'. 310:, etc. The
Arabic Raﬁ conesposds .0 the Co piic Keﬁ. The deity chiea y worshipped
here {min a very early periuc’l was PKhem MingVoi. 1.5) 138)., whose wife
was named his and son XIII-us. Osiris sins ﬁnd, a. hurisIL lace bars
(Es nub ‘Gold house“; in which a: par: of his body (callers KAI?) was
maerveh The book of magic, the search 201- whic}: is narrsmd in the
gamma rcmsnee of Semen, was sunk in the Nile at Koptos. A median!
earthsr- on found. at Koptoa. and now in the British Museum, is said t0
have been written in the reign of ﬁbula or Cheopa (Ash DyIIJ. KOPWE
was fortiﬁml as sex-1y as 1hr: 12s: Dynasey- fur the wealthy any and an
tomes lending to it required to be defena-sd sgainsﬁ the wsrliks tribes
whn lurked between the Nile and the Arabian mountains, ana who, sven
under the Roman empemra. were a. source of danger Gunilla were
eapeeially necessary at this point for there is no doubt ﬁlm a considerabks
number of Phoenician merchants ma sewed In Koptos it & very aayly
dale 8.3011“ with the Egyytinns, and warn engaged in importing the provincial
of Arabia and J“ a his: (Kate even mass of India; which ware canvsyed
vii Arabia to the Egyptian). Red Sea ports aftemuﬁg called Berenike and
Leukas Limen, and thence across the dessert '0 1M Nile The green
breech, used for many buikﬁngs even unéer the Romans was narrizd
at Rmémit an the desert-tome to Xoytos.1t is even probe is ﬂan:
Kebi town or Rafi town means late of the thniciana‘ . [0: the Plus-
nicians wax-Ia named Raft m- Kaft In Egyptian. Strabo and i’lin expressly
ststa that me population of the town was mixed, contsining be all; Egyntian
and Arabic (In: Bunnie) slements. The hieroglyphic nuns of the town

also occurs with the determinative-sign of the 1:03: , which is only used

after the names of fotaigI-I laws] or (If places in which foraignsrs were
oonspiouousa The xsports ofx‘PlsIzsrch, Elias, em, concerning the. strange
calm as Kopms farther indicate mm a considerable Semilic community
dwelt in ms tawn. Inn} was Iegarded. w: 'tlI nestilicy by the: I- Egyptian
neighbcura. ‘im 9 séatement the. the Immune; of Koptos warshippeﬁ
the emcoﬁile (Seth) and annuities. the hawk (Horus) can only refer to these
Ssmilss. The true Egyytians revangeﬁ themselves by throwing an as»
from s rosk (as Fistsrch narrates) because Typhnn (Sam,- was red haired
and. 03' the colon:- of an ass. Red: haired men {mi many red- hairesi
Semites M3 represented on the monuments} were) despised, and like all
foreignsrs were siigmaﬁzed as ‘Ty hunic‘. Many acnaEgyptians are cem-
memorsicd as the sic’lea sf the ﬁrs. e-Ioute from €325 Red Sea to Knptosz
names of Persian kings are nowhere more numemns.

The mung of the. Reﬁning, who hirexi their semen in the caravans
and asserted them (III-Dug]: the éeseI-t, must have ancienﬂy exisnexi within
the six-suit a! the town. These Arabs appear so naIe [men use instigators
of a gmn‘ insurrocéion in Upper Egypt which broke out under Diocletian
in 292 A D . anu led to we siege am} desirncdoa of Koptes. The town
revived somewhat nmier me Khulifs, but ﬁnally (‘Iecayeﬁ with the gradual
transference of ihe Egypuan trams to the nude from Kosér to Kench

About 7 M. above Keptos, on the E. ‘pgnk :§jn.i 1mm»
Page-53
1,09 1301429 3. 1933. From {{moh

steamer station), now an insigniﬁcent village, occupying the site of
the ancient Apouiﬁopolis Paw-a. According to Abulfeda (d. 1331)
this town was second in size only to Fosgé; (Cairo), and was the
chief centre of the Arabian mule. To-day hcags of ruins are the
only remains. A few ssonos with fragmentary inscriptions have
been built into the houses of the town; and. the mosque contains
a basin formed of a single stone, with the name of Ptolemy Phila—
delphua upon it. A pylon, which stood here 30 years ago but has
now (lleagvpeared, 1mm 3. Greek inscription, mneuncing that ‘Queen
Cleopatra aml King Ptolemy, the great goﬂa and Philometors, am!
their children dedicated the temple to the god Aruerls and to the
deitlos worshipped along with him‘. Amorls is the earlier Home,
usually identiﬁed by the Greeks with Apollo, whence the name of
the town Apollinepolis. The modem name Iglﬁs appears to be

derived; from the Egyptian 5 25 K2315”, Near Smhur (E bank),
a

3 M. to ﬁzhe S. of {(63, Prisse rl’iavennes disoovered the ruins of a
small temple of Isis, in which the Horus of Apolllnopolis, Khom-
Min of Koptos, the triad DfThobes:(Ammen-Ra, Math, and Khunsu],
and other gods, were also worshipped. To the E. of Senhur passes
the canal of Senlmr (p. 98), which begins above Thebes and
extends N. to Keneh. In the £21m cent. 13.0. 1932 was notorious for
the number of its scorpions. Numerous Christians éwell here and
ale-011x erlcildeh, on the W5 hunk of the Nile, ahouﬁ 3 M. 60 ﬁlm SW
Nakédeh {mail—station), with numerous (love—oozes, 3 Comic and a
Roman Catholic church, has old and. narrow streets, but presents
a picmresque appearance from the river. The traveller who lands
here near sunset on a Sunday or festival (recommended) will be
yleasently surprised so hear the sound of church—hells. The churches
themselves are uninteresting. Great success has amended the
labours of Christian misaloneriee here and still more in Kﬂs; and
a cimsiflax‘abla proportion of the Coptic community (including ﬁhe
worthy and learned bishop of Kﬁs) have embraeed Promitam‘ism.
The missionaries of the United Presbyterian Church of North
America have also had considerable success at Luxor, Esneh, and
other towns in Upper Egypt, their converts, however, being ex:
elusively from among the 001125, never the Mohammedane.
Demetrius 11., patriarch of the Oopte (d. 1870 , excommunicated
hath the converts and the missionaries. In L66 he insﬁgatei e
years-amnion of the yroselyws, whom he sought to terrify by ﬁnes,
stripes, and imprisonment; and he destroyed the publicﬁlons of
the missionaries (who have a ﬁlming-press of their own) wherever
he could lay hands upon them. The British and American consuls
therenyon interfered energetically 9n behalf of ehelr fellowM
believers, and new the Coptic Protestams enjoy comylete immunity
from every form of religious persecution.
Page-54
to m... KmﬁLEE. 8. Rome. mi

Between Nakaéeh and Luzor (E. bank) the Nile makes a. bend,
beginning at ed—Dmﬂg (W. bank), after which we continue in a
SSW. direction. -- Kamﬁlzb, a mail steamer station on the W. bank,
farmeriy possesseﬂ e‘xtensiVe p‘mntatinne of sugar-cane. In 1824 it
was the resiéence of Shékh Aﬁmeé , and of ‘AE Kﬁshef Aha-Tar—
bz’lsh, who bravely defended it against the insurgents. ——- 0n the
E bank, abcut 31/2 M. from me river, lies :he temple 0f Medamat.
The mine are not withsut interest , but it its better 90 visit them
later from 1.1110: (p. 151) if time pexmiz, than to intently: the jam“
nay so near Thebes.

On the left bank, as we draw near Thebes, rise high limestone
hills, yresenzing pxecipiﬁous skies in She river, from Whiclx,h0wever,
they are separateé by e swig) of fertile land. The right bank is ﬂat tar,
and the Arabian hills retreat farther into the distance. Before
reaching the point when: the W. chain projects a long curved mass
of rack aowards the river, we see to the left ﬁrst the great obelisk,
and the pylens of the temple of Kama, hulfmconcealeti by palm~
trees. When we clear the abrupt proﬁle of the W. cliffs and new
formatiens ate visible at its foot, we may cat-eh a distant View of
Luau): towards the SE. time of the buildings on the W. bulk are.
visibie mm} the “cam er has asacnded as high as Karin ah; than ﬁrst We
(3010531 of Memncm am} afterwarés the Ramesseum come into View.
The telegraph-110565 andwires, which here obmde themselves upon
the View, seem strangely out of place beside the majestic relics of
Egypt’s golden peﬁod. As we gradually approach Luxor, we (Listing
guish the ﬂags flying shave the white houses or: the beak and. fmm the
consular dwellings, and the re‘is applies himself to 111111 a suitabIe
anchorage beside the other dhahabiyehs, which are always t5: be
fom‘ui here. Those who desire to keep by themueives may ﬁrst halt;
off Luxor, lay in provisions and olzhct neenssar’ies, visie Kamak, and
then km} on the W. bank. In {his case the re’is will probably raise
chjections, and the sailors (for whom a aheey should be bought, as
they have tasted as meat {on the voyage] prove glutinous, so that
watchmen will be necessary.

9. Thebes.

Arrival. The thrcwwecks tourist steamers halt for three days (84h,
9m, and 10th) at Luxor on ihe upward journey; the fonr-weeks steamers
for ﬁve days. Trnvellers by 31w mail—steamers and by 6326‘» sevenieeu
(by; steamers spend 34 days in a hotel, —- The. Quay lies in {rent of the
Luxa: Hotel (see below); orters await the anival of the steamers. Tre-
vellers should see aha: 3! their luggage is landed and conveyed. 90 the
hate), and should nat quit the quey till this is done. m Post 0,9365 beside
the szak Bowl; Telegraph Ofﬁce (line vii. geneh) near the Luxar Hotel.

Hatch. ‘Luxox 30121., with 5. ﬁne 2:;- garden in which several
interesﬁn: smiles are ylseeé, pens. per day it; or 191-32 in Jan. and Feb,
13.9. or HENL: the rest 02' the year (bottle of Maniac 56., buﬁle of beer
2:. 641.), cheaper for Egypimogists am} “1059 making a. stay of same time.
Pension includes morning some, lunch abom" noon. auppii d 1 M 911086
Page-55
102 Rants 9. THEEES. Btstribuﬁosa of Time.

making exam-alone3 and s subsianiisl dinner aboutﬁplm. The rooms ere
elem: but not luxurioas. The manager of the halal, which belongs to
Messrs. Thus, Cook a San, is Mr Payrwn. "w 'stusx Karma. ‘12 1!. lower
down an a terrace on the river‘ Elsa belonging to Messrs. 0061:, with. 55—
milar charges. _, GRAND Horn THEWElKIEE (Messrs. Sue a: Son), pens.
12L, wine from 2:.

Gonsulu Agents, British and Russian: Ahmed Ejfsmié, who fre-
{usually given 'fnntasiyas‘ (p. 103) and Arabian dinners. American: 434' Jim-ad.
German: Mahdi-b Tadm. All the consuls sell antiquities; bus: from ‘Todrus.

Distribution of Time. The rains of the city 5f the hundred gates are
so huge, so widely scattered, and so profoundly interesting, that at least
5-6 «Says are nmesrary lo inspect the chit-I poian slums, Thoma who are
specially interested in Egyptology will of course devote a much lgngcr
time to Thebes; weeks at even months may he spent in a. careful study
of its monuments and tombs. «— Cook‘s tourisvpr rmme devotes the
lat day to the temple of Set} I. at 1?“;th and the ‘ombs of the Kings.
the return being mmie at the choice of the tourist either direct or over
the hill to hér ebBahri‘ the ﬂamesaeum, and the Colossi of Hemmm. ——
236. My; Temple of Ksmak; Luxor in the ﬁreman. — 3rd day: Ra-
messeum, Temba of Shékh ‘Abd el-gurnah, Dér el-Medl‘neh, lieéiuet Eubu,
and Culosai u! Kemmm. Thane who are fatigued by the yrevlous ax»
carsiaas should at least make am aﬁurt to proceed to Medina Rab-a where
the party lunches (amt in the interval visit Dér el-Heaineh). — A moen‘
light ride to Remark may be taken (at the iouriat‘a private expense) on
one of she evenings

Those who are at liberty to arrange their time for themselves will
ﬁnd the following programme cf 9. Thus Day! Visit convenient.

is: day. Luxor ami Kat-nah (E. bank}. Thongh vlsitars are some»
times advised to reserve this, the most gigantic ofthe monuments, to the
int, it is really desirable to visit Ksrnk ﬁrst of ill, heinre {aligne has
begun. The traveller who visits Kama}: (m the ﬁrst day preceeds then
to View the other lions, with the salisfsetery feeling that Thebes hes
fulﬁlled his highest expectations; and he will not fail to take 3 later
apportunity, by mocnllght or at any free time. to return to refresh and
conﬁrm his ﬁrst impression. Visitors should ride early to Karnsk , while
the temple of Luxar, easily reached in a. few minutes from the ﬁhghlhiyeh,
may be reserved for an afternoon-visit.

2nd thy; Cross the river earlyy vieii the Colesei of Hemnon, the
Bmesaeum, Medina: Helm, and Dér el-Eeéiueh, in the mornlng if pessiblei
if time permit also one o! the tumbs in the yart of the News olls o!
Thebes knew as Kumet Murral’, anal ﬁnally some of the Tombs o 51:51:}:
'Abd elvlluruah. The view at sunset from this point is of lncumyarable
beauty and intemst.

8m day. Grass the river early3 visit the temgle of Saul. st Erlmah,
ride to the valley of the Tombs 02' the Kings (Bibén el-Eulﬂk} with the
famaus graves of the Pharaohs, then erase the ridge which divides the
latter from the other valleys of the Necropolis, am} visit the terrace-temple
of Der el-Bahri and some of the tombs of el-Assiif. A visit to the Tombs
of the Queens may be combined with an exyeditinn £0 Hedinetda'abu‘
Other less important lonuments may be lncludeti according i0 their
situation.

The Few dayu‘ yrogramrne a! Game‘s steamers in still better: ~— is!
drop Luxor and Kara“. 2nd (lay. Temple 6! Heel 1‘, Tombs o! the
Eta-s, Der sl-Bahri, and the namessamn. 3rd day. Colosai of Ms-mm,
Had rust Hahn, Dér al-ﬂadiush, and Shékb ’Abd alvlfurnab. vith dty. Grant
temple of Remake

A Few days‘ visit may be eyent as follows. — is: day. Visit the
tmplo :1 Luxor and the grout (ample el‘ Amman at Kmak. -— 2nd «lay.
0n the W. bsnk, Colosai of Memnon. Eedine‘. Balm; D6: eldﬁedineb‘ ....
Brﬁ ﬂay. Runes-Baum; Tombs of Shékh‘Abd el-lﬁurnahg terrace-tam le 0!
Dér el-Btllxri; alvAsssif; Drab Alm‘l Naggah. ~— 5th thy. Swami v sit to
Kat-nah; visit in the various sidwtamplss and pylons; excursion to Eur
demxit (p. 151) if desired;
Page-56

Page-57

Page-58
Antiquitiea. THEEES. 9. Rom. 103

Other claims 13pm: the) traveller‘s time will be made in Thebes. If? he
have paid a. visit to one of the «annular agents, he will be invited to a.
Fantaafya, and if he have bmughl good introductions, (he faumni’ya. will
be precarierl by a, dinner. Among the modern Arabs the word ti‘aninsiya‘
in applied to every kind at” amusement, from the aimless discharging of
muskcrs, to the greatest festivity. ln Elm prawn; ccﬂﬁectian it signiﬁas
an evening partyV at which the chief entertainmxmt :4; Elm more ur lees
nkilful dancing of hirml gbawizi. and which is renammemied $55110 "‘ly
m gentlemen who have um befnm «mm unything m” the kind. Chilmuks,
cigareﬁea$ coffee, and liqueurs are ﬁlmed in the animals.

Antiguitiaa. Tm traveller in Thebes is frequenily tempted to purchase
antiquizlea. Half the pnpulazitm oi Luxor is ungaged in trafﬁc with an-
tiquities, and the pmciica of fabricating surely: emit (stile: “Hal 5
frequently found in tomb! in by no means unkmwm to the ﬁlm: 2131f.
Kuny u! the articles affered for gala are an nkilfully imiiazed that aven
experta are aumeﬁmoi in doubt as to their genmixmness; the, ordinary
traveller seldom or never secures an authentic snocimon. 0n1y an many
plum-M as they eel: shillings should aver be (skated to she importunsle
hawkers of antiquities a: the temples and lambs. Those who desire a
genuine memorial of antiquity should apply :0 the rllrmor of the hotel
or to mm of the abovennmec‘l «maul»: agents. Even in this case, hawsvar,
absolute certainty is not Mtaimble; for though hontmm‘ble Haulers them»
selves, the consular agents are liable to be ciaceived in the purchases
they make. (Damian should he observeﬂ in the purchase of nnepeuea
Payym Rolls; far diahouaet vendors are in the: habit of pasting torn
fzsgmenis of papyrus (fruquensly found in 20mm; mm came: do as so
'px'eseut the appearance of ganuine papyrusvmlla. Egyptian antique bronzes,
with artiﬁcial 11251, are mada wholesale, in Tr (a, Paul , and Hanan;
Cairo and Luxu‘: have the beat factories for the fa ration :xi‘nniiques in
terracoste and carved. wood. Valuables uni genuine mug-s may, however,
still he obtained in Luxar by those who are prep wad ta Ligand many.
The pricea are high; 31. being new chargeé for a genuine scarabaeus.
Good and rulin‘hle up imam. includ ug papyri, may “ma Glltained from
Mohammad hfhesaeb and ‘Abd. al-Mcgid.

Ehotagraphs. {500:1 photographs are produceﬂ by .5. acme in Luzon
but even in Elliopheard‘a and other hotels in Cairo, excellent photographs
of Egyptian temples are sold at moderate prices. These by H. Bécllard
are distinguished for urzlszie taste; those by Eébah are Also good. ~— Photo-
graphs of 1.1m Royal Mummies (p. 230) about is. 641, each.

Guides ma ﬂank-syn. A guide is of great assiezance in saving time.
The charge in drf) t‘r. per day, or more [or a large party. Guides on the
E. bank am not allowed to serve on the W. bank, and vice voraz‘x. The
following guides may he recommended: On the xi ht bank [fer Karnak)‘
(Hagan Abmd, Sedan, and 'Abd eldlagid: on the, in I. (W.) bank, “All, who
can take good rubbingn; Mogaammed 2414‘, Alumni 6;an 'Abzi Malawi”,
Irma'ﬂ Euaén, Khals’ﬂh and hie son 542m", Ahmed 2AM! ar-BasrﬁL em.

The Dom-{Eye on the E. side of Thahes are 5001i and have gbnﬁ saddlzs,
Ta Kernel: 1 I}. (a: 13., and as much more when the traveller 9 called for or
keeps the man for the day. On the W. aide the 11' aye, wh h are numb
more heavily Worked, are not go 51de but. they are m we]! saédied.
Charge 2ft. per (lay. The. hotels on the E. bank EH‘QVHIQ zlm we; on
the “1'. bank they must he ordered hefurehand. .. ”tile girls in h water—
hoitles run after the traveller1 a ‘ally on the W. bank, keeping up
with the donkeys with tireloas ngi :3. One shoulsi Em nelocﬁmﬁ and repaid
will: a few pisgtres on tha return. The attractive ﬁne of these marry
children sometimes vividly recall the portraits of Egyj an women of um
time of the Flam-will.

Syon. Cgortameu may have an opportunity of Shooting 3 imkal, the
best time an flaw being at Mill an»): sunset near Bibﬁn alcﬂulﬁk m- the
Ramesseum. 11 experienced hunter is to be found at the Luxor Hotel.
Hyenae am) nometimm shot on the Karnak side. In March. numerous quail
are found here. .

Literature. Tim {allowing are the chief autherities {131' euqimt Tue‘ues:
Page-59
104 Route 9. THEBiiS. Topography.

-— Harieire, Ksrnsk, Etnrie i9 ogrnphiqne ct ntchéolngiqun‘ Leipzig iﬁ'l'é.
—— Brugrah, Reissberichts, 185m — E Lies 3049!, Emﬁes des monumsnts ﬂu
massif Ila Karnak, in tho ‘Mélanges é‘Archéologie égyptienno at “syrienna‘.

On each side of the Nile, hem intcrrupied by thros islands,
stretches a wide belt of fartile lama, bounded both on the E. and
W. by ranges of hills, displaying a holder anti more deﬁnite for-
motion than is usually tha case with the mountains that flank the
riveruvalley, On the E., the ridge, uvertoppud by ﬁnely shawl}
peaks, retires further from the stream than on the W. The fertile
strip ends as abruptly at the foot: of the barren limestone—cliffs
as a lawn adjoining a. gravel-walk in a garden. Most of the min-
eui templos are situatexi in the level district and are reached by
the: waters of the Ni‘ﬁ whim ills inundation? are at their highest;
While the tombs are harm in the ﬂanks of the hills, where their
dark openings are so Humorous, that the E. slope of the Libyan
rango might be rightly compareri to a piece of cork or to a. honeywmb.
Viewad from the rlvsr, the site of ancient Thelma prosants the spa
pesraune of a wide mountain—git! basin or valley richly endowed with
the gifts of never-failing feru'iity. Nature here revels in perpetual
youth, whiln the most enormous 66.111695 ever reared by mortal hand,
though grcryi «issoiaie, anci succumbing to the common fats. of all
human handiwork, "yet compel the admiration of posturing for tho
wonderful race that has left such mighty memorials of its existence
H memorials that have indeed been injured but not annihilated in
the: flight of thousands of years. The verdant amps and palms which
everywhere cheer the traveller as soon as he has quitteti the desert,
the splendid hues that tinge the valley every morning and evening,
the brilliants unoloulied sunshine that “nukes every object in tho
winter season, and tho inspiring feeling that every hour is enriching
the imagination'with new and strong-a pictures? wholly prevents in
Thebes the rise of that melancholy which so often steals over the
mind in presence of the relics of by—gone greatness and of vanished
magniﬁcanca.

The various monuments ore sitnutad as follows. On the right.
(E. bank) rises the Temple of Lnxor, now occupied by dwellings,
and lo the N. are the immenss ruins of Kai-nah, formerly connected
with in Beyond these monuments lay the sir-sets of ancient Thebes.
Farthar to the N. is another extonsivs temple-sits at Meoami‘rt,
which must be regarderl as occunying the site of a suburb of Thebes.
On the left 0V.) bank was the Necropolis, with vaults in the rock
and many mortuary tsmglos. Each of these had its large amwm
for the priesthood, schools, or libraries. The tamnles worn adjoineri
by grows and lakes, and from ancient commercial contracts we
gather that one gunner of the citizens dwelt here. Nearer the
mounmlns stood the houses of the embslmers, refuggs for visitors
to the necropolis. shops for tho sole: of numerous nrtinles which the:
Egyptians were accustomed to bring as offerings to i‘neir ancestors,
stables for the SMTBK} animals, and slaughter-house forth cattle
Page-60
Topography. TEE'BES. 9. Route. 105

brought in be sacriﬁced, The landing-place on the other bank, or»
posits Kamak, was united with the Sunnis of Knrnah by rows of
sphlnxas. As the ancient pilgrim continueil or: his way inwards the
NQW. am} crossed the hill of the L 'neiery now called ei—Asasif, he
came in sight of the rocky amphitheatre which enclosed the terraced
precincts of the temple of Dér el—Eahri. Northwards from Knrneh a
well—made route led to the valley of the Tombs of the Kings, now
called Bibﬁn el—Mulﬁk, which could also be reached by a shorter
though more fatiguing mountain-path from el-A 6. Between the
Entrance of the valley of the Kings’ Tombs and 8 diesel? and close
lo the mountain lay the necropolis known as Drab Abu’l Neggah.
Thence following the (arlge of the fertile strip inwards this SJV, we
reach the magnificent Ramessenm. Behind rises the mountain—ridge.
The tombs on its E. slope, partly occupied as dwellings by the
fellahin, belong to the village now called Shaikh ‘Ahd el—lgiurnah.
As we gaze down rigor; the plain from the highs. lying groves? the
Colossi of Memnen are conspicuous in the midst of the ferrile heir.
Behind these are llie prominent ruins, known as K6111 el-lléiién,
rising near the central pain: of an imaginary line. connecting the
Ramossnnm with the temple of Muiliimt Hahn, the magniﬁcent
Memnoninm of Ramses Ill. Turning from Medina: Hahn 10 ﬁlm
SW}, we reach 3 small temple of the l’tolemies; to the N., near
the mountains, lies the valley with the Tombs of the Queens; and
Skirting the line of hills to the NW. we reach the scanty tomb“
remains of Emmet Murra'i, to the W. or” whicl lies a valley with
the small but interesting temple of Dér el—Medneh. Two points
are of special value. for taking one’s bearings. One is the summit
of the mountain lying between ul~Asnsif and llibfm el-Mnli’ik; the
other is she door of either of mo tombs at. Shékh ‘Abd el-Knrrmh.
One of the tombs, in which Lepsius lived, is known to the guides as
Knsr Lepsius; the other was inhabitezi by Ebers, who is remembered
hy the fellahln as Ahu Bales (Father of l’anl).

The name TEEBBS is yrobahiy the Greek form of the Egyptian

{I E j k}? Uabu, with the feminine article t preﬁxed, ire,

Tuabu. The Hellenes, familiar with the name Thebes {Bﬁﬁap}, which
was home by cities in Bmotin, Allica, Thessaly, Cilia-in, near Miletue
in Asia Minor, etc“ believed that. in Tuabu thny had met it ones)
more Possibly, however, the name may be derived from the words

 

 

 

 

 

a: jig i(we. dim? which warn applied in the temples on ﬁle E.
5

bank at least Among the Greeks the town was known as [liner 0} 1:,
a translation of Pu-anaen, city of Ammon also called Diaspolis
Megale or Diospolis Magnet to distinguish it from Diospolis Pawn
or Him (13. 70).

The famous capital of Upper Egypt was certainly founded un—
der the ancicnh empire, but whether uarliLr: ‘ﬁhallﬁfhﬁ 1‘32“?!“ -
Page-61
106 Beats 9. moans. History.

of which tombs have been found, is open io question. Hardly any
traces of earlier monuments have been discovered. The_ earliest
prosperity of Thebes dates from the eclipse of the ﬁrst ﬂourish-
ing period of Memphis Pie iousiy it was named the southern Uni
in distinction to Holiopoiis, the northern 0-73. A iegemi, known
to us. however, only from inscriptions of a later date, narrates that
Osiris was born here. Such a myth can scarcely hays been invented
in later times, for from the beginning of the New Empire onwards,
Osiris foil info 3. nosition quite subsiéiary to the ozher goés ofTheb-es,
especially to Ammon-Ra with whom Mush and Khnnsu formed a
trisri. Only in connection with the worship of the dead did. Osiris
reiain his leading rsnk. Among goddesses a Esther seams to have
onjoymi especial honour from the nariiosl times; and even til} 3 nom—
parativsly laie does she nome Phathyrizes (the Pathros of the Bible)7
of which Thebes was the ﬂourishing capital, was Called. afcsr her the
‘liathor disrrict'. Under the early empire she afterwards gigantic city
wasnoi conspicuous. It is seldom mentioned, and avon urine: the
13m Dyn. .issmlmLycopalis (p. 31) is described as the chief town of
Up per Egypt. When the Hyksos invadedths Nile valley, the legitimate
princes, who had ruled from the Mediterranean to the Com-acts, were:
driven to the south. Her-a. they reigned during several inglorions
centuries, until Raskene‘n arui King A ahm as (p. xxxI) arose and under
the banner of Ammon of Thebes expelled the strangers. The succeed-
ing princes, won important victories not only on Egyoiian soil but
also in Asia, always fighting under the auspices of Ammon with
whom was joinoci the Ra of Lower Egypt, and who, as we have seen
(Vol. 1., p. 138), was speedily placed at the head of all the national
gods. The libsration ofthe country was direct-ed from Thebes, and that
city continued for oo‘niuriesto be the favourite sea: of she Pharaohs.
and i116 reservoir "into which ﬂowed the unfair} treasures exacted as
tribute or brought. as booty from Asia to Egypt. A large share of this
wealth was bestowed upon Amman. The magniﬁcent and gigantic
temple, erected at this period to the geli, is still one of the chief
sights of Thebes. The graudeos of tho kingdom osteomod it an honour
to become priests cinnamon, the schools beside his temples ﬂourished,
and the kings offered their richest gifts to this god, from whom thay
wooded a surer fulﬁlment of their petitions than from any other.
Thus Thebesbocanw the city ofAInnion3 the No or No—AmcmofSc-ﬂp-
cure and the Diaspolis of the Greeks. Victory over foes was the burden
of every/buyer oftha Pharaohs at this culminating period oiTthes,
and. tho warriors led out by the monarchs wore drilled under the eye
of the god. In the introductory remarks on the history of Egypt
mention has already been made of the great warrior-princes who
placed Thebes at the zenith of its fame, and in tho description of
the various monuments reference will again has made to them. Here
i 1. may he add-ad thus the fame of the huge city early reseller} the
ears even of the Greeks. In a possibly interpolated passage of the
Page-62
History. THEEES. 9, Route, 107

Iliad (:lX, 3794384), Achilles, enraged with Agamemnon, assures
Ulysses that he m‘ll never were unite in com: ii or in deed with the
great Atrides: —

“Ten times as much, and tweuiy ﬂuxes were vain; Ilse high pii'd More“

“Of rich Hyeena', and if he ransaok wide earth for more,“

“Search old Omhomenus for gold, and by the fenile stream“

“Where, in Egyptian Thebea, the heepa of precious legals gleam,"

“The hundredﬁaled Thebes, where twice tan score in martin} stain"

"Ol’ valiant men vim steeds and cars march through each messy gaﬁei“

i’Blnckie’c Trmmalian.)
The epithet émrégmloz, :23. ‘humiredagateii’, here used by

Home-ﬁves also applied by later classical authors to Thebes. Diodorus,
Sci-elm, Pliny, and Bute of Siuopa all make use of it, referring,
however, to the pylons of the temples in ﬁlm capital of UggetEgypc.
With the rising importance of the god am} with the increase cf his
wealth, of which they had the disposal, the archpriesm m’ Amman
gradually grew to regard themselves as the chief persons in the
stale; and, after the way had been yrapamd by a series of weak
princes, they succeeéed in usurping the throne and by their rule
prepaxed the ruin of Egyptian power. From the 20th Dyn. onwards,
Thebes began t0 decay. Ramses 111‘ indeed adorned the left bank
especially with elaborate hulidiuge; but hi3 immediate sue. sears
did no mom than haw out; fer themselves deep and richly cavved
graves in the valley of the Kings“ Tombs, and the princes of Lower
Egypt wlm succeeded the priests of Ammon of the ‘let Dyn. were
the less able to hesmw attention upon Thebes, the more eagerly
they strove t4) adorn their homes in the Delta with gorgeous struc—
tures. Yet even these princes did not wholly abandon Thebes, and
they did not emit to inscribe pretentious reports of their mighty
gate on the walls of the temple of Ammon. The armies of the Assy-
rims gleuelxamd as far as Thebes Mid plundered ii; the Echioyixms
planted their rule here and bummed Amman with huiléings em}
inscriptions; the princes cf the 26th Dyn. (lid for Sais what the
princes of the 1861: and 19th Dyn. had done for the city af Amman,
but they also paid their homage to the great god of Thebes by
erecting smaller buildings there. The invading army of Cembyses
ascended as far as Upper Egyyt, but seems to have done little er
no damage at Thebes. El‘lectanebus 1., one of the native Egyptian
princes who mummified themselves against. the Persians, [ennui
time am! means to add a handmme pylon to the temple ui‘Ammen.
Alexander the GreetVand the princes of the house of the Lagidae
probably found Thebes still a great lhough decadent city, and they
assisted to embellish it, as many buildings dating from the yen‘od
of she Ptolemieﬁstﬂl access. After eke 22nd Dyn. the txeumres of
Ethiopia had ceased to enrich Thebes; and when the harbour of
Alexamlrin began to attract to itself the produce of Egypt. brought
from llm Rea Sea to the Nile valley, the weeds of Raptors, with
their ladlng oi" Incliw and Arabian goods, hm selﬁsh} found their
way 8. to the great city of Ammon. Thebes still 1’6 aimed ouv
Page-63
108 Rank 9“ THERES, History.

splcuons as a city of temples and priests, but its inhabitants de-
clined in wealth. It may be easily cenjecturea that :hese, formerly
the chief among the citizens of Egyyi here but ill :he fate whléh
now placed their: i‘ar behind the Alexandrians Strangers sat on the
throne of Ru, and cared no: to take the trouble to visit in person
the remote Diospolis, the coronation— town of the Pharaohs, wbt)
had been accustomed to make a iriumplml entry after each victory
and C0 offer thanks to Amman. The earlier noble [rugidae were sua—
caedatl by warthless rulers, whose extravagant tastes forced them
to drain the resources of the Theba‘id and other provinces. Un-
der the gluttouous Bum-gates 11V and his consort Cleopatra Cease
the Alexandrinus rose in revolt and equalled Alexander 1., she
king‘s son. The citizens of the cayizal 0:” Upper Egypt dared also
to rise in the attempt to win back their lost independence; uni
they refused to lay_ down their arms even when Ptolemy Sorter II.
(Laihyrns) was recalled: from banishment by the Alaxnmlrlans and
was universally recognizeul in Lower Egyyt. The army ofLathyrus
besieged the town, whose inhnhizante bravely defended themselves
in the huge temples, each of which served as a fortress. Finally,
however, Thebes was stormed; its treasures were ylundemé and
its venerable meuumeuts terribly mutlleted. Thencefomud Thebes
is only mentioned as a. goal of inquisitive travellers, who under the
Roman emperors were attracted to the Nile by two monuments in
particular - ilm pyramiﬂa ml the musical celossus of Memnon on
the W. bank at Thebes. Diodm'ns (60 RC.) and Smﬂm (258.0.)
describe Thebes as it was after the destruction. The latter found
only a few relics on each eiiie of the Nile, just as the traveller 0f
mushy (lees. An earthquake, 1w common occurrence in Egypt,
had done more than the bani 0H1": ﬁerce warricr $0 destroy the
monuments of thousands 01' years. In 27 01 24 3.0. a convulslnn
of Chis nature wrought such havoc that; Eusebius declared, though
not wiihout exaggeration, that the Egyyeiau Thebes had been
levelleé with the gramme“ In the absence of some such natural
force, we should be terriﬁed to declare that the annihilation of
many perm of the monuments of Thebes must have been a task
only less difﬁcult than their constructien. At many points, especi-
ally in the temlrlc a: Katmai, the injury is plainly to "be ascribed
to human hands. The reg):ermrrmtians1 dating from the pericd of
the Ptolemies, within the second main pylon, to the left as we ap—
proach ﬁlm large hyyostyle hall, have been removed with axes or
hammers. Some smaller injuries? asyeciully to the rmmes of ﬁre
kings, were due to political reasons, as when Tunnels 111., after he
obtained the sole power, destroyed the cermuchea of his too ambl—
ricus sister and guerdlan; orhers are to be ascribed to the evil habit
of certain Pharaohs of appropriating the menumerits of their pres
decessors by substituting their own name for those of the ran!
builders; and yet others had religious causes, as when the name of
Page-64
E433 Bank. LUXOR. 10. Route. 109

Seth was obliterated at various specks. The introduction of Chriss-
ianity and the edicts of Theodosins were followed by the destruc-
tion of many pagan statues and the obliteration of many yagan in-
scriytione. At all events the new religicn ami the clssing of the
temples ﬂedicared to the ancient gnds removed all possibility of
anything being done to preserve the monuments of wire Pharaohs.
The Nile, which annually overﬂowed as far as the temple of Kamek
iu parﬁiculer, and the saline exnrlations of the soil, wrought harm;
jar-kale and other animals sought shelter in the subterranean chlam-
bare; many tombs, at ﬁrst occupied by Christian hermits, were con-
verted into yeasants’ dwellings; Christian churches were erected in
the temple~hells, and. heuses were bum between the columns 01' the
temple at Luxox. Garefully hawn blocks and slabs were removed
from the manuments, which were used as quarries, and many
limestone details were thrown into the furnace and reduced to
lime. Whither the enormous yopnlatiun of the hundred—gated
Thebes betook itself is unknown. A few wixléaly~sumccermi villages
«lune new represem of she giant city. These have given names to
the various ediﬁces and 16mm, whose holy names might only be
uttered with gious awe in the time of the Pharaohs. The ruins cf
Thebes remained long forgotten. On the revivsl of learning classical
students recalled their fame; Pococke rediscovered, described them
and drew them; and ﬁnally the publications of the great French
Expedicion revealed to astonisheé Eur-ape how much of the ancient
magniﬁcence of the Pharaghs haul survived to our lime. Each
succeeéing scientific expaﬁitinn maria its longest. halt 11am and
found here its richest rewards. The names of Champollien, Wil-
kinson, Lepsius, and other Egyptolegists are familiar words on the
site of ancient Thebes; and Mariette, wlw carried (:11 excavations
under LBeIauspices of the Khndive2 must also be mentiened.

A. THE EAST BANK AT THEBES.
19. The Temple of Laser.

The name of Luxor is derived from are Arabic ehKagr, pl. el-
Kugﬂr, and means ‘the ceﬁiles’, ”having reference to the eansive
temple in which part of the village of Luxor was built, ml which
is adjnined by another part, The mosque still stands within the
temple, Tlm house of the British consul, as wall as the Sty—celled
Kagr Fmﬁmei, and other buildings, which formerly story} here.
have been removed within the last few years, the S, sine of the
temgyle laid free, and the interior cleansed. The chief entrenqe on
the R, with the pylons and their obelisks evil} on their walnut site,
is also to be thorenglrly excavated. Seen {rem the river, the temple
now presents a‘nighly imposing appearance, previous , inre ered
Page-65
“0 Route 10.

LUXOR. East Bank

       

,..-..IIE:::‘

cane-nu.-

5L;

 

with by modern buildings. The
house of Moharb Todrus,‘ the Ger-
man consular agent (p. 102), lies
farther to the N., near the landing-
place, where traces of an ancient
construction may be seen, which
is unfortunately disappearing be-
fore the annual inundations, and
not far from the principal py-
lon. To the left of the main pylon
is the village, with a shop, kept
by a Greek, at which provisions
of all kinds and porter, ale, can-
dles, etc. may be purchased. Far-
ther to the NE. dwell numerous
ghawazl.

The removal of later buildings
from the 'Temple of Luxor has
rendered it easy to reconstruct its
ground—plan (see opposite), and to
see that its erection was gradual
and more or less affected by the
existence of still earlier’buildings.
The general main axis of the temple
lies from S.W. to N.E.; but the
axis of the N. portion deviates con—
siderably from the direction of that
of the S. portion, partly on account

. of the shape of the river-bank,

partly because itwas desired to have
the pylons at Luxorzcorresponding
to those of Karnak. A careful
examination indeed reveals three
different axial directions. These
deviate from the true meridian, at
an angle of 41’ 21" on the 8., and
at an angle of 51° on the N. As
was the custom, the part of the
temple containing the sanctuary
(the S. part) was built ﬁrst, includ-
ing the large peristyle hell. This
took place in the 18th Dyn. under
Amenhotep'lllu while the W. por-
tions were added by Ramses II.
From the obelisks to the back of
the sanctuary, the total length of
the temple is 284 yds. Later kings,
Page-67
at Ember. LUXOR 10. Route. Hi

including some of the Ptolemies, yiaced inscriptions with their
names on the ancient buildings. The Pnrncrmn Prnon is easily
recognized by the ohelisks and colossi as its pcttal. The visitor who
places himself in front of this nerceives at once that rubbish and
csrth conceal one-halfof the sloping facade which is richly adorned
with carvings and inscriptions new satily damagcxi. lec all pylons,
the onus before us consists of two truncated yyraruills with an on—
trance—door between them. The latter was 55 ft. in height. The side-
towers, which rose about ‘20 it. higher, were crowned with an cle-
gant concave cornice, which has now almost completely disappeared,
and warn frsmod with the astragal. The cnttanccmdoor is comm
nlctcly ruined. Unrler tho cornice is a conspicuous Inscription in
large lottors, which may be traced also on the archltrave of the
per-istyle court, wherever it has remained visible and entire. This
inscription contains a clariﬁcation, intimatlng that Ramses ll; hulls
this imposing wliﬂce for his father Amman—Ra, the king of tho
Gulls, On each side of the entrance were twu monolithic Colossi,
40 ft. in height; the most easterly has disanpeared, the three
others arc halfwhuried in rubbish, In front of the central ﬁgures,
though not quite symmetrically placed, rose two Obelisks of pink
granite, our cf which (the W.) now adorns the Place de ls Con—
corde at Paris. It is to he hoped that a crack, which has been
noticcri in the monument from the days of antiquity, will not lead
to its ﬁcstructinn under the influence of a. northern climutu This
W. obelisk was smaller than its E. neighbour which is still stami-
ing; and the ancient architects endeavoured to counteract this in-
equality by glﬁng the smaller obelisk a higher haso than the other,
and placing it c lltﬂo farther forward. The inscriptions on the
obelisk still standing at Lnror are clearly and ﬁnely cut in the stone
and are perfectly legible. They name Ramses the Pharaoh, with.
many prelnntious titles, as the founder of this gorgeous building
erected in honour of Ammon in southern Thchns (Apt run). The
faces of these ohelisks, like those of most others, are slightly con-
vex, as the priestly architects observed that a ﬂat surface was apt in
appear concave in a strong light. Details supplied by the French
anglncers give a. vivid him of the enormous woight that hall who
handled in the erection of an obelisk, although the Paris obelisk is
comparatively small; considerably larger obelisks are to be seen at
Karnaka The W. obelisk of Lnxor is 75 ft. high, its base is 75/2 ft’.
square, anti its weight. is nrlwards of 212 tons.

The anterior walls of the pylons of nearly every Egyptian temple
are adorned with representations referring to victories granted by
the gods of the sanctuaries to the royal builders. At Lnxor these
reprcscntaﬁons refcr to victories granted by Ammon to Kansas 11.
The rich sculpture with which the broad walls cf the pylons were
covered has suffered severely from the hand of time. At. several
places the Relief: m cream, deeply on: in the Istons are 9'! My
Page-68
112 Route 10. LUXOR. Ema Bani:

rubbed out. On the left {E} wing, however, the life-like ﬁgure of
the king, shouting arrows from his chariot, and the ﬁne roaring
horses of hi5 chariot, are still clearly to he riislinguisheri. On cho
rlgm (W) wall also a gomi deal may be mine am. The king is hero
represented in his camp. {is has dismounted from his chariot, which
waits for him, and has seated himself upon his throne. His ofﬁcors
await his instructions, unit farther in the background tho “coils
ﬂash in their camp. The inécriptions are much injurod, but it can
be made only from them that they were graven in the stone chieﬂy
in honour of Ramses INS victory over the Kheta (Aramaams) and
their allies. In the 5th year of the king, on the. 9th Payni, the for-
tress of Katasl} on the (homes was stormed. The r‘ivor and the
contest on its banks are still ﬂistmguisha'ble. The Epic of Panama?
in 90 vertical lines, covers the lower part of the W. wing and part
of the E. wing; some of it has recently been uncovored, the rest is
till concealeé by rubbish, This gloom was the national egos, the
Iliad. of [no simian: Egyptians, It occurs ”mics on the E. bank at
Thebes — on the N. side of the pylon at Luxor and on the B. side
of the temple of Kai-nah (here also partly concealed by earth]. It is
also found, though in a very fragmentary condition, on the N. Wall
of this 1mm of Ramses II. at Abydos (discovored ﬁrst by Risen-
10hr). and in the most complete (hieratic) form in the Papyrus
Knife: (now in the Louvre] and the Papyrus Samar 111. {now in
the British Museum).

The poetic text on the pylons at Luxor is followed by a. gross
text, dealing mainly with the arrival of two hostile spies, who gave
out at ﬁrst that. tbs Kheta. had ﬂed into the land of Khirabu (Eel-
bon or Aleopo) to ﬁlm N, of Trump, but. who on being ioourgoa re.-
vealcul tho roal lurking—place of the enemy m the NW. of Romain.
The king hastily racallali the Egyyt‘lan trooys, but too lato to pre—
vent is cam? being suddenly attacked on the S. by the Khan. The
Egyptians were surrounded, and only the personal bravary of the
king socured the ﬁnal victory. This prose inscription, preserved in
full at the Ramesseum aml in the temple of Abu—Eimbel, describes
the same event as the poem of Pentaur, though it dates it a month

Eater.

The most important and ﬁnest spisodrs according: to tho rsstcraﬁcn
of the tax; by E. de Bhugé are as follows. ‘Tlien ihe miserable and
wax-llama» Rhona. with Ilia numerous allien lay hidden behind me for-trolls
of Kaﬁesh. His majos‘ry founli hjmss‘lf‘ alone (will: his servant!) Tim
legion of Amman marched. allel- him; the legion of Ra passad through
the valley to the 8. of the. fortress of Sham-an and marched forward:
. . . , In the cantro was the legion of Push, suppor‘wd by tho furtrcan
of Among the legion of Sulekh (Seth-Ty hon) wen: ripen its way.
The king had summoned all £118 lemlnrs alphis army, who were in the
valleys of ﬁns 175ml of Amun- Tho miserable uni worihless prince! of ”‘3
Kheta was in the midst of his soldiers; and for fear 0! His Meaty duct!
no! lax-spare himsell V.) battle. Ya: he ordered forword his archers and
his chariots, that word more in number than the, 53115 of the son slim-o, Three
men were in each charioi! and they had uniieﬁ memselves with éhe warriors
of the land of the Khetu, expert wizh all weapons. h -: Malian
Page-69
at Tmﬁes. news. 20. Route. 113

behind aha fortress of Kntesh. Then they pressed. 1‘0th on the 8. side of
Kalesh end nimckeli ihe centre nf l'ne legion at Re, which was on the
march, we having m warning was nngrepareti for the battle. The embers
and chm-lets gave why befere them. is Majesty alone had made a halt
to the N. of the fortress Karen, on she W. bank of the Grantee. Yew:
was brought to His Hudeety of what had. happened. And behold. the king
rose up like his father Mont (ﬁne grid of war); he seized his weapons and
pui an his nrmenr like Baal in his hour. The nnble herses that. bore his
mnjssiy (‘Viatory (Ir Thahsa‘ was their name) came forth from the eia‘ble
of Ramses, Che beloved 9f Amman. anti the king dashed in his niéeck
Into ghe lids: of the miserable Khela. He was alm and no other was
with him. And as he hastened on before the eyes of these that followed
him, he found Massif surrounded by 3.500 char-€61: vf «car. (out all) from
his return by all the warmers of the miserable Kheta and the mime»
mus peoples that accompanied them; by the people of Arndos, lllysia,
uni Pisldie (ﬁlming$ Ween, Piﬂﬂﬂj» Each of their slam-lots bore three men,
and they had all nnized themselves. ‘No prince was with use, no general,
no commander oi the ushers or chariots. Ely soldiers have deserted me,
anal my knights have ﬁled. before them; no‘l one of them has made a stand
to ﬁght by my side‘. Then spake h'm majesty: ‘Who irt than, 0 father
Amman? does a father forget. his son? Have 1 ever undertaken anything
witlmnt thee? Haws I not walked anti do I uni. stand ever according to
thy words? Never hue I tree eased thy commands . . . What are these
85mins m thee? Amman sen era the geﬁless helpless. Ewe incl oﬁ‘erecl
:0 thee seamless sacriﬁces? Through me thy holy dwelllng was ﬁlled
with my captives. I have built thee a temple for millions a! years, and
I furnish thy store-houses with ell my goads. I brought the Whole
world to thee to enrich thy possessions; Slalom»: l sasrilicen to thee on
all manner ol‘ sweebemelllng weed. 1 have not failed to make thy fore-
court. Stone ylons I erected for thee, and I myself erected the ﬂag-stem;
before them. . caused nhelleks 10 be brnught from Elephanta, end in was
I who caused slonss of eternal duration to be brought. For thee ships
plough the deep and bring to thee the tribute of the nalions. Surely a
wretehed fete swells him who resisls thy commands, but happiness will
be to him Whn knuws than. l beseech then, 0 father Amman, look upon
me here in the midst of countless peoples who ere strenge to me. All
nations have nnlled themselves against me, and I am alone and no one
{a will: me. My numerous saldiers have deserted me; us one of my
knights looked ant upon me when I celled them; none at them heard
my voice. But I believe that Amman is of more value to me than a»
million of sulﬁlers, than a lunar-ea thonsmd knights end a hnuared
thousand brothers ma young sons. even were they gathered ﬁngalher in
one lace. The mark of multitudes of men is us nothing, Ammon ont‘
welg 3 them All. This have I amompliehed, 0 Amman, according :9 she
counsel 0! thy mouth, and have not exmeaed thy csmmamls. Behold,
I have aid honour to lhee t6 the utter-most ends of the earth’. My voice
sonnde to Eemonthis nnﬁ Amman came at my cry. He gave nae his
hand I Mien-ell a cry of joy, and he spoke behind me: “I hasten in thine
aid. ) ﬁmses, my sen, beloved of Ammon. 1 sm wlvlh thee“. m In the
farther course 0! his speech, Amman says: “Not one of mam (the foe)
(Ends his hand. to light; thelr hearts have Vmﬁshsd from their breast: {or
fright; their arms have became weak. They are no lenger able to launch
their arrows, and slrengéh fella than: to hold their spears. I thrust them
into lhe water, an that they fell in like the crocmlile. They lie prone, ﬁne
upon Another, marl l sprsul denth in their midst. I will not tlml (ma
she-Ali leek behind him at thu another should turn himself. He whn
Calls Lhere shall no! riee again“. The king of course, :8 the apes goes on
to narrate, wmpleﬁely vanquished the Asiatics allied against him after
herd ﬁghting and me: his charioteer himself had lost courage. ~~ ﬁnally
the prints of the Khan: sands 5 messenger with a letler. His snbmisslcn
ls unwind; and Amman greets She Pharaoh ”ﬁlming in triumph.

The gems! imam Waited by she wins with its obelisks,
W‘s ”PM W
Page-70
3 14 Rants 20. LUXOR. East Bank

colossl, nml the various subsidiary details, is still not unlmposing;
and the whole entrance to the temple at Luxor is unusually ple—
turesque, perhaps on account of the very abundance of small details
which an unrestrainedly placed here Bide by side wlch the huge.
and algnlﬁml

Beyond the winaipal pylon was the Great Peristyla Coast (Pl. A),
which was entirely surrounded by a double row of columns {twelve
pairs on each ef the four sides). 1: measures 185, ft. in length and
157 ft. in breadth. This hall was at one time completely built uy, but
the W. side at least has now been laicl hate. The most recent excava—
tlmla have revealed a portico, dating from 12311152511, on the lune:
side of the NW. wall ef the court. The architectonic; purport of
this portico, which is somewhat lower than the (mum, and has three
alustereé columns, is not apparent. Between the inner row cf co—
lumns on the S. side of the court anows and shields of Ramses II.
were placatl. A mosque simated within this court prevents the (ab
cavation of the E. wall, and considerably mars the general effect.
Ramsaa ll. founded she court, but the Ethiopian Sabakc wmte his
name an the portal, while Ptolemy Phllopato: wrote his on several
of the abacl‘ 0n the S. side this court was terminated by a smaller
Pylan, beyond which, tlmugh not with the same axis {see allows)i
is a Cclosmaﬁa {PL B), 58 yxis, lungi bull: miller the 18111 Dynasty.
The last is in tolerably good preservation and contributes essentially
to the digniﬁed aypearance of the ruins of Luxor when viawad from
the rivet-“bank or still more from the island crossed on {he - 'sy to
visit the munumems of W. Thebes. Seven couples of columns,
nearly 42 fa. in height, will: salyx~capimls, still supper: a heavy
architrave above a lofty abacus. The whole was built by Amen-
hoﬁep 111., but King Earns, Setil., and Seti 11. have also recordeé
their [mums upon it: The marvellgus play of colour shown by this
eolonuade with its (leap, heavy shadows when the setting sun sheds
a rosy light upon the E. sky, is nowhere excelled. The 59mm!
rcriatyle Court (Pl. 0) had. double rows of calmns on its N., E,
ané W. sltles. These, belonging ec the oréer of sculytured payymsn
bud columns, are specially effective as seen fmm the liver—hank.
The court was 48 yds. long 31151135 yds. broad, and ends in a Hypo—
style Hula (PL D), tlm roof of which was borne by 32 sculptured
budvcollmms axxaugml in 4 rows of 8. The two sphlums at me an—
mmce bear the name of Sebckhotep ll, (13le Dyﬂl). Thia hall was
barely '20 yda. deep and '55 yds. wide, and for some unaxplnineﬁ
reascn its E. wall forms an Acute angle (instead of 3 right angle)
with the 8. wall of {he prawding peristyle court. This 03:61: Spa“
[P1, E}, whieh we nan ﬁnd, ls entered from the river ﬁltle, am! is
syeclally commenéed to the tmveller‘s attention. The ancient en~
trauma to the sanctuary—chambers lns here been altered into B kind
0f ayslvlal recess, bounded on the right and left by two gnuite (30-
rinthian columns. The court in mm of this was used as a church
Page-71
at macs. marlin 11.1mm. 115

in later Christian times, and the ﬁne ancient sculptures were ce~
vexed with lime and gandily‘ painted in the eeriy Christian style.

Beyond this space were the series of chambers forming the
Ssnntnury, now eceese'lhie only from the silica next the river: This
is certainly the most ancient part of the temple, and unusually
clearly—out hieroglyphics inform us that it was built by the same
monarch who rem-ell the Golossi of Memnon, :11. by Amenhotep Ill.
The ﬁrst Boom (Pl F), with four columns, contains a series of re»
presentations of homage and sacriﬁce before Amman Generater,
anal in the chamber to the E. of it (Pl. n) are represented the con—
ﬁnement of the mother of the king [Muir sin-us) and the nursing of
the infant Ameirhotep, Beyond Boom F is the Holy of Hollies (Pl. 6).
It is doubtful whether Assyrians or Persians destroyed the original
sanctuary; but at all events after the Macedonians had conquered
Egypt and after the death of Alexander the Great, it was restored
in the name of Aloxamler 11., for when: Ptolemy Soter l. ruled
as ‘sntmp’. Alexander boasts in the dedicntory inscription of hm»
ing restored the work of Amenhotep. The lest rooms 02‘ this part of
the telple have now also been excavated, and contain various ﬁne
sculptures of ihe £8th Dynasty: Ammon of Thebes, especially In
his ithyphailic form as the waduotive pmvor, appears everywhere
as the chief deity of the temple, receiving sacriﬁces and bestowing
gifts. In the chamber adjoining the last square hall traces have
been found of a staircase ascending to the roof of the temnle.

11. Kmak.

Travellers who irrivo at Luxor in the morning should devote the
afternoon to a ﬁrst visit to Karnnk; if they arrive in the evening they
rhoulri spend on it the next morning liar-rink is about V2 hr‘e. ride from
.L-uxor; ass 1 in, far the whole any 2 fr. Gniﬂes (‘23s, 9. 103), who speak
a little broken English, are useful to save time on a ﬁrst vinitx but they
are not indispensable. The donkeyﬂmys and tomple~kwpora also speak
broken English. A visit to Remain hy moonlight is exceedingly attractive,
but travellers are advised net to make it alone, even although there in
mashing to fear from robber-e.

lien to the Tombs of the Kings, Kernel; is by far the most in-
teresting part of ancient Thebes. Even under the Pharaohs the group
of temples here was coneiderexi the most striking creation of an age
peculiarly famous for architectural achievements. Centuries have
here destroyed mural-7 yet there is no other building in the worl
that can latch the dimensions of the temple of Ammon at Karnak.
The brilliant life that once enlivened thase halls with colour anti
sound has lang Slain in silence beneath the dust Could it be rem
called by some magicien's wand it would present to the beholder s
dazzling and bewildering scene or” unique splendour; but. it may
be questioned whether the admiration and interest nommamied by
the temple in Its uninjured «mi frequented days nonld equal the
pure enjoyment which is nwmkeneﬂ in the breast of the sympathetic
Page-72
i 15 Route 11. KARNAK. East Bank

beholder by the building new, mined. but with its whole plan uni
theory 99,31 clear and inteHigible. There is nothing m to distract
the eye fram aha lines and forms of the temple; am} the pomp of
banners and the clouds of incense are replaced by the magic of
digniﬁed antiquity. Amidst these hoary ruins, we realize the short—
ness of our mortal seen and recognize the evanescence 01‘ human
greatness and eylsndour.

Surﬁng from the great pylon of the temple of Luxer, we prey
ceed to the 12., then fellow the street with the Greek shops, and
leaving the houses of the ghawﬁzi and the hill. with the tomb of
the ahékh to the right, hold towards the N. We soon arrive at the
ﬁrst ruins of Kan-nah, and ﬁnally, if we have failawed the W. route,
reach an impcsing row af Keiosphimee, La. sphinxes with the ho—
dies of lions anti the heads of rams. Near this point, to‘ the S. of
the temple, are two almost; parallel Processionat Avenues ﬂanked
with sphinxee, one uniting the temple of Mush (p. 148) with the
S. pylene (p. 147), are other Reading from the temple of Luxor m
the Mingle of Khunsu ( 10. 14-8]. TheSe two avenues were connected
with each tithe? by a third crass“ wanna of ephinxesn We follow
the left (WU! avenue, the ﬂanking sphinxes of which are served in
the grand style and are placed dose to each other. Between the legs
of each is a stamens with the name of Amenhotep Ill. {Ra—ma-neh).
This leads us to the handsome but 3111199: 1:00 slender Pyion XII,
erected by Ptolemy III. Energetes 1., with a winged nunudisc in the
casement, with boldly—spread piniens. In the time oi the Legidee
additional pyksns} corresponding to this one, were placed at the ex-
treme corners or the temple. The on the N. side (p. £43) is stilt in
admirable eraservation. Insiée {he portal Euergetes is represented
in Egyptian style though clad in Greek costume. To the right ef
the lowest representation on the left side, the king appears sacri—
ﬁcing to Khunsu. Between these are the hawk ef Heme, the vul-
cure of Nekheb, and the ibis of Thoth, which are also represented
ﬂying, to beer to the world intelligence of the battles, victories, and
wisdom of the prince. The inscriptions record that this pylon was
dedicated to Kilauea of Theme Another avenue of sphinxes
follows, beyond which rises the Temple of Khumu (PE, ‘12)? e haml-
eeme building on which, however, we now bestow only a passing
glance (camp. p. 148). About 200 paces towards the W. bring us
to the Firet‘Maa‘n Pykm (ablu’ib w-kebi‘r), which faces the river. We
here begin mu description of the temple.

L The Greaé Temple of Ammon.
an General View. The first Kain Pylon.

As we stand before the massive pylons 01'th largesz group of
builriinge at Knrnak, we may caste glance at the rows of Kriasphinxes
which led from the templauporml to the Nile. Bets/sen areas rows
Page-73

Page-74
OOOOOOOOOOOOO 0®990

00 0‘50
Page-75
HE

 

 

at Mas. new; 1;. name, it?

moved the long pmcesslum which left. the temple of Ammon My visit
the W. mm of Thebes, Statewbarges, glittering with gold. and
brilliant tolerate? waited here 16 receive the priests and the sacred
images. (m the river-steps were ranged choirs, which, at least on
the ﬁve greet fﬁﬂﬁivtl cleye of Ammon, greeted the yilgrims from the
opposite been}; with sense. The ancient constructions on the banks
have long been weekeei away. In January and February, the months
in which most travellers visit Kamak, the stream is only 100~200
glances from tho procession—avenue; while durlng the lmrndlntlon the
water penezrates into the interior of the temple? which in ancient
times it wee pteventeé {writ doing: by huge ambenkmems Rem—
sea II. camtructeﬁ this mute to the river , yet most of the Kriny—
sphinxee that “alum it have stetuettes of Setl 11‘ Memnpmh
between their legs? eml twe smell broken ohel’lske also hear the
name of ﬂail who reigned lewarﬂs the close of the 19th Dynasty.
In @813 a smell mangle with the name of king i’sammuthia, of the
29th Dyer 9 was (liecevered at the 8.3V. came: of the gylon to
the right,

The What Main Pylon [P]. I) is of enormous size. It is still
124- yds. wiﬂe, with walls 16 It. thick end 1421/2 ft high. This
gigantic yortel, which probably dates from the Pmlemies, although
no record of the, feet, is known, is destitute or inscriptions” Possibly
it was covered with stucco and adorned with paintings, as its deco»
ration with reliefs would have demanded enormous toll and time.
No one shoulni omit to make the l‘Ascent of this 1171011. This may
be done meat eeslly1 and Without any danger or special difﬁculty,
on the NA side, ﬁll we are about half way up, and thence by means
of a steey anti narrow stair in the interior. The top is so head that
even those wlm are sulvject to giddiness need not fear it) trust them—
selves 153mm 1%. After eujuyiug the extraordinary view ehlie immense
ruins ilk-Om this mini; 02‘ vantage, it is useful and interesting to seek
ﬁe ldemify, with the aid of the accompanying plan, the various col—
umns, obelisku, snail pillars which at ﬁrst present themselves in
ayparently inextricable confusion. This is comparatively easy as
regenls the nearer (WQ) yortion of the temple; but the more distant
portions, from among which obelisks tower, are partly out of sight,
end are partly ea foreshortened by distance, that they appear to
form one eenfusaél system of ruins. The View by moonlight is in»

deseribahly ﬁne. But on the whole the result. is 9. general though '

ineﬁ‘eceable impression, rather than a clear idea of the arrangement
of the variant parts at the building The latter is only to be obtained
by wandering, plan lu ”trend, through the mine. It meet, however,
never be forgetten that the temple of Kamek, so far from having
one single uniferm plan, grew up gredeelly, gné am many of its
parts owe their character not w any artistic calculation, but to
such eceldeﬁw x: axlerations es the space at the disposal of the
architect, She means and length of life of the builder; and the like

 

  

f
Page-76
118 Ram 11. mgmx. Em Bank

The building is at once a tampla of the gotta and a wmgio 0f fame;
dedicntad ‘lx mum»; Em gloires‘ of the empire of the. Pharaohs, it was
compeﬂed to waive additiaus, often in most unauitabie places,
whenever it was the will of Maw king to Semgmm 13:5 favours of
gin-mun by new buildinga which should mcami for posterity what

the god had «ions for him, and through him for Egypt"

Before wt} amen“ the: yerisﬁyle court, an inscription an um- dam of {he
pylan, to our right as we enter, meriia nutint his was glaceé have by
the savanna who menmpmied the army of Napo‘smm 1:) Egypt, all records
the lilitudm and longitude: 9: the chief maples a? the Pharaolm, u chl-
mlastmi by them.

Républiqne Frnngninu. An V111. Gésgmphia (Kw msmummm.

 

 

Temples Longitude i Latituée

nmdm . . . g % 2 36" if: it;
Carma . . "’

Tm“ Luqm . . sub 19 i6 25° 52 55
1335th . . . . . . 30“ M 19 ‘25“ 139 3‘3
Edfxm . . . a , . 30‘33 A 2f)“ 0 0
Ombos . . . . . . SO" 38 39 21V 28 0
Eyem . . . . . . PK)” 8A 19 24" g 6
Isle Philae . . . . 30“ 33 M 9 ’ 25 E)

This menument of ‘mtiring and success 1:! diliganna (Swarm-,1: to be
greeted with reaped; is contrasts with the uxacrﬂie Santa of ﬁhe idle
tourists whn have scribbled over and defaced innuiptitmg within the
temple, with their own inaigniﬁumi names. Opposite) the French table
an Malian learned seem}- (Fab, 9 iﬂﬁi) have erected samba;- showiu‘
the va an of ﬂux compass (riecimazione (1911‘ igc magxaecico} as Wbﬁ‘ .
The insuription i» signed ”marina genie“ em.

 

3:. Thu Great Peﬁltyla Court and m Aadiﬁem.

The great ’Perintyla com (Pl. A) is believed “by important
authorizies to haw been built by the rulers of the 22nd Dynwﬁy.
The oldest part of the temple is thus sanctuary (p. 134), situated
much farther to the E. Probably ﬂue clearest View of the: growth
and historical development of tha great house of Ammon would be
obtaineai by beginning there and thence visiting the later portions
in the order of their emotion; but. in {chewing (mi Ehia plan wa
shank} be obliged to élivewga ixmgulaﬂy mm amﬁ timber fram the
main 11mm, marl so would miss much of the amt ﬁanigmsﬂ by the
buildarsq The inﬂuence cf tbs god was sauwamd m raejmte from
within outwards; while the proceseion ofhis aderers aﬁ'mnceai glowly
awards Amman from without humanist The sanctuary was the ﬁrm},
unappmnchwle goal of the pious, few of Wham were pmmiﬁad to
penetrate father than the peristyle court. The hyposzyla hall was
indeed open to certain privileged worshippers, but only the ‘mith
ated' were allowed to sppmnch any nearer w the hoiy of hoiias. That
sacred chamber itself might only be entered by 1115 high-prints! and
the Ring, the raprasenmﬁve of the god upon mm TM Hunge-
mant of the paﬁseyla and succeeding chambers {Minus in {M
clearest mama: um mime of “18 services celebrate; 191mm mam.
Page-77
at Thebes. KARNAK. 11. Home. HQ

The Archiiecfanie Features of the eourt must be noticed before we
proceed to examine its uses. It is 9.75 ft. deep and 338 ft. wide,
and covers an area of 9755 sqmls. On each side a. kind of color-made
9: aces: is formed by a row of columns and tbs sxceriar wall. Eighteen
columns still stand. on the left side, but the row on the right was inn
termpted by Ramses 111., who has hare placed aiemple (Pl. G), pro—
jecting considerably beyond iha 8. wall, and at right angles to it. Both
mws of columns are unscnlpturml. Amlller small temple (Pl. B) was
built in the NE. angle of the wars by Seti ll. Merenptah. Both
of these smaller temples are later additions, with no reference to the
purpose of the court, am! ihey interfere with the eﬂ'ect designed by
the original builder. The (ﬂexible row of huge columns in {rent of
the deorway of the second pylon was, on the ether hand, part cf the
original plan. The lofty shafts, which were terminated by ealyx-v
capitals cf gigantic proportions, taper iawarrls the top, and contract
rapidly immediately above the convex bases on which they “and.
The calyx of iha capitals was surrounded with petals1 from amidst
which slender marsh-plants sprang. In the centre of each was a
cubical abacus, serving as a pedeséal fer an image of a god. Marieile
ccnjectnred that a small hypmthral temple (like that at Philae) stood
in front a! the seconé pylcn, and that not only was there an addi«
tional (sixth) pair of columns adjoining the others but that the
vaulting of the whole was rendereé possible by two central columns
between the pairs at each end which are about 36 ft. apart. As,
however, lem is not; Hm faintest mum of thaw conjecturnl six
columns, it is perhaps more pmbable that this colour-radix repre~
sents e grocessional or triumphal avenue, formerly covered only
by a velarium, and that lhe continuation of it is to he recegnlzea
in ehe elevated central row of calumns in the hypostylo hall (1:. 12%).
Of the sriglnal columns only ﬁve can now be: traced on the left
sills, and. one on the right close to the seeoné pylon, which termi—
nates the yerlstyle on the E. Three still show about 1/2; of the
ariginal height. one animus 1/4, ﬁnd another ghoul 1/2; ﬁle only com—
plere column is on the righﬁ. Ugo!) this lust Psammelikh 1., of the
26th Dyn, has placed his name over that of the Ethiopian Taharka,
of the 25th Dyn; above, on the abacus, is the name of l’iolamy 1V.
l’hilopator, which also appears on the recently excavated base of
one of the broken columns. The shaft. is minimised of 36 courses of
carefully hewn stone, the capital of h courses. The heightis 69 it;
the greatest breadth of the capital i6 ft, che circumference at the
lop 49 ft. —-—-— The above-mentioned second. pylon, an the E. side of
aha court, is 'moslly in ruins. Before the doorway is m antacllam—
her (Pl. b). the entrance to which was ﬂanked by two statues of
Ramses II. The ﬁgure on the left side has fallen down; that on
the right. bmhen at the top. displays exce ‘lent workmanship,
myeclally' m the legs, and recalls the Daeualian ﬁguras of the earliest
periods of Greek art. A
Page-78
120 Route n. KARNAK, East Bank

We may mention hate in anﬁciysﬂon that the roof ox" thefouow—
ing hypostyle hall was suppaned by a perfect forest of papyrus-bud
columns, -thmugh 1.1m midst of which a. broad yasaage was marina!
by calyx-00111111115, closeiy resembling the detached pairs of columns
in the ﬁrst court (comp. p. 123). At this point we ﬁrst obtain a
clear idea of the) arxaugement of this portion of ihe temple, and tha
same mmuxk applies also to all the moms between it. and thus muc-
tuary. la 5}”de 8133 be remambarad that the number of abuses
privileged to follaw and behold the procession gradually decreased
from room to room as the sanctuary was approached. Headed by
the king or chief priest, the crowd of priests, banning the standards,
symbols, and images of the gods, passed through the doorway of the
ﬁrst pyion into the peristyie court. The éeubls row of calyx—
capimls served at ones to indium their passage and. to mark the
limits; beyonnj which the 919113 spectators must not press. The
sacred pmcesaion rolled on slowly beneath the shank of the velatium
and entered the hypostyle hall though the secoml pylon. Many of
those who were yermitted :0 enter the 11m court had there :0 quit
the procession and to take u? moi: positions {a the right and left
as" the calyxﬁcolumns. Othaxs again wém net parmined so aévancs
farther than the hypostyle. and so with each room until the salm-
tuary was reached. To this day the clearly ﬂeﬁned passage thither
may he mead, and it wilt be observed that at th succeesiva stage
the “ghee aypointea for ehose who had m quit the procasgign is
smasher than the preceding.

Lyra: 1593me243 m m Emma (Imam.

1. The Small Temp!» of Satin £61:an (P1. 3'), in tha
NJ!“ angle of the court, in our left: as we unsea- by the ﬁrst pylon.
This building? chb has anky racenﬂy been made partly xecmihia,
is built of grey mmxclsmna5 exceyt bash-la the three doors, where a
reddish quartzese sandstone ”has been used. The ﬁgure of tha 50d
Seth has overywhew been emscd frum 9.21s name ofthe buﬂﬂsr. Only
a small ironic“ of the walls is entirely sculptured; and the ten
presentations that are stiil extant. shmv am: the tempie was dedicated
to the Theban triad, Amman, Math, and Khnnsu. In the chamba!
entered by the W: (13ft) door apyaaxs tbs sacred boast of the goddess
Math, to whom Seti Memnphah, accompanied by his son, uffars a
libaﬂon. The richly diaasad My is callad ‘myal prince’ and ‘heir
to the crown’. Adjacent is the ﬁgure oi the helmeteﬂ Pharaoh,
presantiug the imam of the goddess of truth $0 Amman and Khuns‘n.

2. TM Tample of Ramses III. (P3. C), dedicated to Ammo“,

intarmpting the S. wall of the peristyie scam.

The greaz Haws“: hymn which is chieﬂy concerned wiih the erection
and aquipmant of iamples, details no fewer than: six bui‘xdingn and ﬂva
estates in the vicinity of Thebes, distinguished by the terms in: (Se-pie),
Pa (house), Han-cm: {puma-e), adding After each one of the two name:
05' sh; king and fnquenlly aim an additions! Mme, such!» ‘chy gluon-y
Page-79
a: Thebes. KARNAK. 11. Route. 121

then mnkgai; abltiing for all eterniiy‘. The yorsunnnl waignad in them
foundations in reckoned as 86,586 inﬁividunla, of which 62,6135 bolonged
to the lax-gens temple (as Medina-Hahn). The allows-mention“ Temple C.
bore ska name Pa Ran-m: ha! an (Home of Ramses, princn of Heliopolia}
and land 2623 prisms amt attendants.

The lmildlng is in form a comylete temple, but in View of the
enormous dimensions of its surroum‘lings can claim only the cha-
racter of a chapel. Its total length is 170 ft. The Pylon with the
entrance door is much injurad, especially at the top. Bayond it is n.
Puma/la Cour! (Pl. '1), with eight Osiris—mums on each side, and
at the and four caryacide pillars forming 3 Emmy: (Pl. 3), whence a
door leads to a smnil Hypoatyle (Pl. 1], with night papyrus—bud ca—
piﬁais. Finally some the chambers of the Sanctuary [P1, B). Sculp—
tnra is not wanting in this temple, which owes its origin 10 the
wealthy founder of the Memnoninm at Medinet Hahn (1). 174).
This most lavish of Egyptian kings hail already founded. within the
limits of ﬁle temyle of Ammon the sempla of Khnnsn (p. 148) as a
worthy symbol of his liberaliw to the gods; and that fact axplains
the comparative smallness of the temple before us. The anterior of
the pylons wns adorned. with ropresentations expressing the gratitude
of the Pharaoh to the god for victory in buttla. On aha Left Wing

V /’
[15.) Ramsas‘ 111., wearing the crown of Upper Egyyi Lj, holds a

bzné of prisoners by the hair and raises his award for a blow which
must strike of? all their heads at once. Amman, standing in front of
him, hands him the sword of victory, and delivers in him chained
logeiher the regresenintlves of the vanquisnml maples, who amour
in three rows. In ﬁlm ﬁrst. We rows are ihe cnngnered naﬁons of the
south, in the third row those of the north. On the Right Wing are
similar representations, the king here wearing the crown of Lower

Egyp! y. In the doorway, Ramses 111. receives from Ammon

the symbol of life, $60. On the right side-wall of the nylons am
representations of banks and captives, which were concealed by
the colonnade, a conclusive proof that the circumference of the court
cannot dale from Ramses ll.

In the periatyle com-t (Pl. rx] the following inaorlntion wants on (he
nrchilx'ave of $th caryatill puamigu on the right. (We omit She lengthy
introénuory titles of tha king.) ‘anges, King of Upper and Lower Egyps,
prime of Hellopoh'a (is. Ramses 111.), {be living and beneﬂcent god. who
raaemblw Ru that lightens tho world with his! boums on tho E. and W.
horizon. he lord of beams, like the sun‘s also in the heavens. Men extol
bin, when they behold Ramses 11L. the king ofUppor and Lower Egypt,
the son of ﬁlm sun. the lord of tins diadama, Ramses the )rinca of Heliu-
polis, who built this monument for his father Amman-{Hg :ha king of
{no gods. He erected. anew (m maul} the bull ’23 known as Fe. Ramses
Ink an (princess of Haliopnlls), as a house lo: Amman, at minimum}. well-
hawn “one, ﬁnishing it with everlasling work”. The inscription {ham-0d)
goes on to describe the king is a darling 0‘; Amman, o. victory-bring“?!
Horus, who in as rich in years as Turn, a king und prolenlor of Egypt.
who overthrow; the alien pooples, em.
Page-80
122 Route :1. KARNAK. East Bank

The lower parts, sspecially in ﬁne sanctuarywhambers, are saver-ed
with rubbish. A long List of Oﬁ‘eringa on the 1311(3) exterior
wall is of some interest. It records that Ramses TIL, in the month
Payni in the 16th year sf his reign, decreed that gifts for his father
Amman-Ra, the king of the gods, should be laid upon the silver
sitar, such as provisions, sacriﬁcial cakes, ate. Tin-m follow some
details [injuralﬂ as 14:; the amount of the offerings.

3. The Partiq'ae dea Bubutitss(1’ortieo afﬁne Bubasiites ; Pl. 8),
so called by Chamyolllon, is the part of the court between the left
(E ) wall of the temple just described am! the S part (i. a. aha far-
that; t. to (her right) of the second pylon. This space, only 43 ft wide,
had a. door admitting to the temple fmru the S., and It to be regarded
as the E. and of the mionnada which lined. the S. wadi of the court.
Two unacuipturad papyrus-had columns divide it. from the rest
of the court. Numerous inscripiicns dating fmm the 221m Hym,
which nriginated in Bubastia, cover the walls, and contain impor—
tant material for the history of that period. This dynasty succeeded
the inglorious line of priest~kings, who seised the throne of Thebes
after the selfwlndulgent rulers of the 20th dynasty. Their names
am ratlmr Semitic that Egyptian , a circumstance that med (sense
no surprise when we remember that Bubastis is named as their
hole, a city in the E. part of the Delta which was settled by Semitic
tribes. As their names appear to be of Aramaic origin it is not
impossible that they were placed upon the throne of the Pharxohs
by the Assyrian conquerors who are mar-tinned in the cuneiform
inscriptions of Mesopotamia, rhough the Egyptian hieroglyphlcs
ignore them. Like their predecessers of the 511st Dyn., they retained
the chief priesthood in their own control, aygxarently by committing
this ofﬁce to their heirs. In the hall in which we now are the
king appears several times with the crown-prince, whe is named
‘ﬁrst prophet of Amman-Ba}; and the crown-prince occurs 5150
without his Skillet. Shushenk I. probably began the decoration of
the building, for his name sypears in the usual ylare for the de-
dication-inscrigﬁon, gle. on the architrava above the columns. The
names of Osorkon I. and Takelu: I. 3156 occur. The last—named
king appears before Amman-Rs. accompanied by hls son Osorkou,
clad in the priestly pamheroskin; and Osorkon also ensure alone
offering sacriﬁce to Amman. 0n the E. wall is a double painting
representing Amman to the right and ieft, wearing the feather—
crown and seared. on a throne, while the deceased son of the same
Osnrkon spproaclms in priestly garb in offer sacriﬁce. Bismuth Is a
long but unfommately damaged Inscription, dating fmm the l‘l‘lh
year of 'l‘akelut 11., which mentions a remarkable event said. to
have occurred in the reign of the father sf that prince (probably
Sheahenk IL). The passage in question is net. nhsalmeiy clear,
but this much may he gathered with certainty, viz. that oh the 25!!!
Mesori in the 15th year ef the father 06 Takeiut IL, something mt-
Page-81
a: Them. KARNAK. 11. Route. 123

usual happened to the moon, which plunged all Egypt in alarm.
This was probably a lunar eclipse i. In the left wing, on the N.
wall, Ammon appears presenting Ororkm‘n I. with the notched
staff of years and the award of victory; beneath, the king drinks
the milk of life from the breast of Hathor; and adjacent is Osm-
kon as a youth with tho crown, to whom Khnum hands the sy-‘bol
of life,

Before proceeding on our way towards the sanctuary, wo must
inspect a most important. historical monument which owes its origin
to Sheshenk i. (ma Shiahuk of the Bible), founder of the dynasty
cf ilm B'rlhostilas. This is on the outside of the 8. ’all oftha temple
of Ammon, sari is easily found. Issuing from the doorway of it»;
Portico of the Bubastless, we turn to the lefl, and immediately ﬁnd
ourselves in {rout of this important rapresantnlion, The massive form
of the king, worming the double crown, agpoars brandishing his
weapon over a. hand of foes with pointed beards} wile ralso their arms
in snppllcation. Farther to the left is the large ﬁgure efAmmon. with
the double feat-ha: on his head, grasping in his right bond the sword
of victory and in his left cords bindingﬁve rows of captives with name-
la‘aels. Fess with pointed boards krleol before him and bag for mercy
with uplifter hands. The portrait of King Shashenk was left unﬁnislr~
ad, the outline drawing of the crown being still visible on the stone.
Els carioucho anrl the inscriptions placed in his and Ammon’s month
are: mom distinct Beneath Amman apgsars the goddcss of Tonnes

with the symbol or” the name of the city of Ammon uponber

haul. In her loft hand she holnis n how and arrow, in 316: right a
hula-axe» and six yspyms souls, which unite live rows of mums of
towns, surmounted by busts. These are {he names of plarzes besieged
and captured by Sheshenk in his campaign against Rehoboam, and
we have thus a collateral corroboration of the Biblical narrative, such
as has not been found for any other portion Mills 016. ’l‘ostamont.

The Biblical plunge: am as follows: 1 Kings XIV" 9326: ‘Anrl it arms
to plus in the ﬁfih year of king Rahobnam, than Shishsk king of Egypt
came up against Jerusalem: Ami Em took away the treasurers of the house
of the Lord, and mo troaaurcs of tho king's houso; ho avon took away
all; and he took many all the shields of gold which Solomon had made‘.
2nd Chron. XXL, 2-4 4': 9: ‘And it came in pm, that, in the ﬁfth year of
Runabout}, Shinlmk king of ngpi came: I) xrgainw Jerusalaw because
i‘nuy horl iramgrosseﬁ against the Lord, ith iwuit'e hundred chariots,
and throescore thousand horsemen; and the people were without number

 

'3 It reads ﬁlms: ‘In ﬁlm year are ..... the heavens did Mr swallow
the moon‘i This may possibly refer to she agpearance of a new moon
on the night immediately succeeding the last appearance 0! the old moon,
without tho usual inter-nation of u moonloss night u a phanamencn
which is possible in certain exceptional circumalamces. Bu: if. as Goad:
win suggests, intend of wild. not, -----w— a is to 1m lakau, it would read
“in the your etc. i . . the Mavens swallawed the moon", and we» should
haw: a direct mention of a Inna:- eclipse.
Page-82
124 Route r1. KARNAK. Ema Hank

that games wiéh him mat. of Egypt; 9115 Lubim, the Sukklixu, and the
Ethiopians, And ha moi: this {Snead cities which permined to Judah, tad
tune in Jerusajmn‘. Val-509 is the same A: the above passage
frame; King». ----- The ﬁonquered people uamad in the ”presen-
Emion are tha Am“, Kenna (Ruining), Menti, anri Sakti (Asiﬂﬁcsl.

Champollion, the grant decipharar 0f hieroglyphieug was the
iii-M lo permiva that the name; in the inscription belonged to
the Wave-mentioned ‘fenced aleies‘, and that Shmhenk, cnllml
by the Grasks Sesonchin, WM identical wish the Shiahak of the
Bible. The mm name in the third row from ”m lop, “Granted
his attention especially; it reads ‘Judah (Jada) Mﬂxllk‘.‘ and may
be iraualaead king of Judah. Thu heads of the busts show: the
nameviubals, wieh their chanaleriaeic Semitic features, are suf-
ﬁcient by thamaelves t0 prove that only mama could be here
signiﬁeﬂ {7mm wart; inlmbizml by pnoplas related to she Jews. (if
tbs: 12E name—labels only a few can be identiﬁed. with certainty
will: otherwise known names of plum: in Puluaiim, each u
Rab-bath { a: ring of ma ﬁrst row). Tam-"sch, ﬁhnnam, Ranch,
magnum Aimllama Hahanal‘m, Glbeuu, Beth-Huron, KadeA
mum, A; \m {in the second raw). Sal/ml nymlmln have re-
cently been obliteratml by um whieewash used to presume tin:
wall, and some of “35 name~labala hava alac been dﬂﬂil‘oyeé;
my 3.9. ﬁQgitZdo 3% the beginning of 1210 third mm. The rest of
ﬁns inscriptien h' h are aouehed in ﬁlm usual emphatic 52516, giva 30
farther informality; 3.5 o the campaign.

We return to the» parlatyla court and proceed to m Edmund Pylon
(Pl. II). Tim lain oz 2?. side has fallen and the right side is sadly
damaged. The 6010835. of Ramses 11., which guarded the projecting
entrance, have all-early been mentiomd on p. M9. But neithar
Ramses 11,, as ayyaamnues might suggest, no: even} his father Seti I.
built this pylon, but: the predeaezsor and fathax of the latter,
Ramses 1., wha also planned the liypostyle ball, aﬂerwuds ndornsd
by Sati I. and Ramses tbs Great. The; cal-touches of Ramses II.
frequently occm 31ml; instead of being emboswi, because) they have
been place“! am gyms previously occupied by the olden: cal-touches
of Ramses I. or Sad L The same is the Gaza on the back of the
N. pylon, whereas on the. hack of em; 3‘ pyhm, which was erected
by Ramses '11'., his name appaars in ganuim 'lmwrelief. In the
doorway (Pl. s), when) the cartouches of Ramses 1, 3m 1., and
Rumsss II. are found, animal-veiling ﬁcorwas erectedby Pmlamy VII.

Philoummr D§ﬁ\ and Ptolemy IXV Euwgasee [1,, during
A /

their jointwreigu [170—135 13.0.). The lintel and upper yarts of
this latte; doorway are wanting, but the jamba are in good pre-
servation, with expmssions of homage to Amman and his fellow-
gods. On the inner side (to this left) of the earlier doorway appears
Ramsea EL kneeling befcm Amman and receiving the symbol of
kingslxip» Bill‘xﬁml Mm stands the geddess Math, and Khumu, with
the [man‘s ﬁlm 011 his head, conducts Ptolemy VII: Philly-star {o
behold aha geé Amman. Probably the representatlm is a restoration
by Philamam: c-t‘ am older marl: on the same spot.
Page-83
at mm. KARNAK. 1 1. Route. 125

c. The Great Eypostyle Hall.

The “Hypostyle Eel! of Kernak (Pl. D) was commenced under
the 18th Dyn. by Ramses 1., completed by Seti 1. (19th Dyn.), and
enriched with new sculptures wherever there was room by Seti‘s
son Ramses 11. Its breadth (inside measurement) is 338 ft., its
depth 170 ft., and its area 6450 square yards, an sres specious
enough to accommodate the entire church of Notre Dame at Paris.
The roof is supported by 134 columns, of which the central row is
higher than the others. Each of the 12 columns in this row is
113/5 ft. in diameter and upwards of 3‘2. ft. in circumference, Le. as

 

Hypostyle Bill of Kuntk. (From Xupero‘s Archéologie égyptienne.)

large as Trajan’s Column in Rome or the Vendéme Column in Paris.
It requires six men with outstretched arms to span one of these
huge columns. Their height is 69 ft, thst of the capitals 11 ft.
The remaining 122 columns are each 42‘]; ft. in height and 271/2 ft.
in circumference, and have papyrus-bud capitals. ‘It is impossible’,
says Lepsius, ‘to describe the impression experienced by everyone
who enters this forest of columns for the ﬁrst time, and passes from
row to row, amidst the lofty ﬁgures of gods Ind kings, projecting,
some in mu relief, some in half relief, from the columns on which
Page-84
126 Rouse :1. KARNAK. East Baas

they are represenmd‘. Many of the columns are prostrate, ether:
lean as though on the verge of falling, and arshltrsve sml roof-t
slabs have either fallen or seem on the point of doing sol Yet the
whole is so well-preserves that we never forget that we ere in a
rolenuauea hall, and the ruinous appearance so far from destroy-
ing ﬁlm general impression adds a yicmrusque charm in it, The
enormous proportiaus of this structure are perhans bass sppreniated,
if we place ourselves in the wide doorway of the second Pylon and
look through the tiouble row of huge calyx-wlumns towards the
sanctuary, 5.8. rewards the E. The magic inﬂuence of the plane is
fully felt, in the morning or evening, or by meunllght, when the
columns cast intense black shadows on each other.

Roof. The processionsl route (p. 119} was distinguished by
placing on each side of it higher columns than in the rest of the
temple. These higher cnlumns have mlyx—uapitu‘is, on which rest
cubical ahaci, sunpnrting the massive architraves which run parallel
with the main axis of the temple. Above the srchitrave another
small erection is visible. The lower columns immediately adjacent
an bath sides were connaeeea with this inner raw, by erecting upon
them square pillars, separated by Windows, ami united will: sash
other by means of a lung architrsve, above which another smaller
erection is observed. Only one of the windaws is now extant, sud
that in imperfect preservsciorn The union of these four rows under
a common roof thus provided a lighted passage, about 78 fa. high
(alums 32 ft higher than the rest of the ball), through the centre
of the colounaded hall. The shane of the columns in the outer rows
is shown in Vol. 1., 1). 164m she calyx-capitals of the ma inner
rcws in V0]. 1., p. 165a.mTha Columns are not monolithic, “one
are built, like huge watch—sewers, of Brawn stones. The central
rows have smooth shafts and enormous calyx—cani’mls with curved
edges. Five bands at the neck of the column fasten the striped
paisls and slander water-plsills, which, mingled will! royal
cartouches and other damrations, cling to the calyx. Each capital
resembles a gigantic goblet. Unfortunately the minuteness of the
ornamentation, especially on the upper parts, is not very suitable
for the huge proportions of {be columnar All the columns, both in
the inner and in the outer raw, are sdurnad with ﬁle name of
Ramses H. and various emliellishmema. The shafts in every use
here sunk reliefs (‘en creux’}, the former painting in which is stiLl
traceable at: plates, The inscriptions and representations present,
on the whole, but little variety; but. in a few censixierable dif-
ferences may be noted as regards the persona of the gods and the
gifts which they received or bestowed. This is specially the use
with the columns. These in the ﬁrst six rows is the N. have,
towards the toy, the car-much; of Sell 1., am! farther dawn that
of Ramses IV; the remaining rows have Ramses H. at the top and
Ramses 1V, below. Ramses 111., Ramses V1,, and Ramses XML
Page-85
a: Thebes. KARMK. 11. Route. £27

have also recorded their names, semetimes ﬁlling in vacant spasms
and sometimes snatching out older names. 0n the) capitals the
cutouches of Kamsea II. or of his more [mmediata successors are
found; on the border of the extreme top of the shaft, this sauna
Phnrnah is nsnaﬂy namaﬁ king of Uppex and Lower Egypt, lord of
both wot-1&5, son of the sun, lord of the disdems, etc. The broader
ﬁeld beneath sxhibits almost univexsaﬂy vartiual cartonches, sure

mounted with ﬁlm feathers [m , anti standing 11pm the symbol

of gold ($1.03 the largest mm, mm lower, the king appears
twice; ones sacriﬁcing to the gen}, and once with the celestials
offering him amblems, generally symbelizing in some familiar way
one of the higher blessings of life. The simple inscriptig) gepeat
each other over and over again. They begin: ‘I give ch 421', ‘1
gmnt thee’, or else mention a visit of the king to tha temple; Tim
na‘wings and hinroglyphica y‘mced by Ramses I]. are much inferior
to those dating from the reign of his father Seti 1., a fact we have
already noticed at Abydcs.

By far the most important, place among the gods here is ﬁﬂad
by Amman, Math, and Khunsn, the Theban triad (Vol. 1., p. 138).
At Kamak Amman was conceived of in two capacities, which must
be distinguished from each other; he was in the ﬁrst place Amman
Gemratmr3 in the second place Amman—Ba, the king ofttm gods.
Amman may be ident'iﬂati by his feather-crown, Khunsu by the
crescent on his bean and the lock on his iempies, and Math by the
vulture—cap. The other gods that appear with them may be easily
identiﬁed. with that he}? of tin; introduction on the Religion of
Ancient Egypt {V0}. L, 1). 124]. On thc architrava are some) 91:33:13:
am inscriptions, of whisk a few deviam from the usual foxmu‘sae.
One of these, dating from Seti 1., on the architrave above the buli—
columns in the ﬁrst cross—row to the E. (right), is as follows: ‘H8
is a king, mounling his home like the sen Minis {Hams} He is
an archer of a mighty arm am} like 2136(ng of war) Mamu a great
wall of brass. He is the protector of his soldiezs, when they thirst
in tbs hollow way, on tha day of battle. No opposition is offered
to him from the Emu-31:66: thousand brave hearts that are mum} in
one placa’. In the inscriptions the king usually beasts of having
exacted an eternal and magniﬁcent building in tins house of his
father Amman, of founding festivals, or of oﬁsring great treasures.

d. The North Exterior Wall of the Knostyle.

We turn to the 191’: (EL) from the entrance to the Hypostyie Hall,
and in the if. wall, between the 4th and 52h rows of columns from
ﬁlm pylon3 reach a (1001‘ (FL 4i)? through which we yam The out—
side of the townie—wait in cover“ with inscriptions and martial
reptesentaﬁona. These begin on the N. part of the E wan of the
Page-86
128 Route 11. KA'RNAK. East Bank

temple, which we reach by proceeding at once to the right {1;},
afterwarés returning to the N. wall in following the description
below. On the El Wall the relish; are in two divisions, an upper
and a lower. The series begins at the top, to the left of the boholdor.
Hero we see King Sari aligning from his chariot, in a well—wooded
country belonging to the tribes of the Remonen (Armenians) and
Rotonnn (Syrians). These are compelled to fall troos, which are‘
loafy and soon} to he tell and slender; and were probably to he used
for ship~huil¢iing [as Solomon used the trees felled by the people
of Hiram) or for ﬂag—staffs. The physiognomies of the Asiatics are
distinctly characterized. The fortress appearing bohind the horse
is named gKatha“ to the N of Rename]. In the roprosontation below
the king is shown thriving in his chariot above the slain. Besirle
the horses, which drew the king on state occasions, are their names;
the king’s favourite horse is here called ‘Victory in Thebos’.w’l‘he
Toma 37: pa Kanans, the fortress Knuana, is overcome. This was
Soti’s ﬁrst great exploit, which he performed, as the inscription
informs us, in the ﬁrst year of his reign, when he overthrew the
Shasn, the Semitic neighbours of Egypt from Zar (Pelusimn) to
the fortress of Kanana (Canaan): ‘His majesty was towards them
as a furious lion. Thoy woro tronsformed to corpses, bow down
in their blood within their valleys’. Confused heaps of slain appear
below the fortress (to the left). An Asiatic, with a. hat, prays with
“praised hands for mercy; amoral fall pieraod with arrows. Only
one escapes from among ten thousand to proclaim in distant lands
the bravery or” the king—We new reach the N Wall, where also
there is an upper end a lower series of representations. in the ﬁrst
seen» (in the extreme left), above, tho army has penetrated far
enough to storm the fortress of Niriﬁa{Ninoveh), in the land of the
Ghaldaesms. The stream which washes the stronghold is the Tigris.
The inhabitants of the country, who are represented full face games
what awkwnrdly am} contrary to the usual Egyptian method.
conceal themselves among trees. The king, advancing to the attack
in his chariot (his head and that of his galloping horse have been
broken oil) seizes two of them standing in their ohnrioi, end
shoots arrows against the mounted roost In tho adjoining soena
{nearly obliterated) the king is binding captives with his own hand,
and drags others behind his chariot; to the right he appears drag»
ging four captives with him anti drawing others in two rows behind
him. A single line inscription between the rows names these
prisoners the mighty princes of the Rotounu (Syrians or Assyrians).
In the representation higher up, heyoml a damaged portion of the
wall, the king oppeors in his chariot, wiih his right hand raised
and holding in his left his how am! the cords to which other two
rows of prisoners (described as Retonnn ham, or Upper Syrians)
are fastened. The scene takes plaoe before the Thsban trim}, Am-
m, ﬁnal», anal Khmer, re- whorn the king also Wm“;
Page-87
a: Tuebca. KARNA’K. :1. Route. 129

vessels of silver, gold, khesbet (Earns-lazuli), ané mafek [ms—
habits.)

In the corresponﬁiug scenes in the lower mw the king unpeurs in
his chariot (at. the left emit of she N. wall}, with his back turned to
ihe great cries of the Khara (Syrians). He drives yast several
castles, builr by himself, some of them describcd as waterestations;
beside the lower ones is a. small fresh-water lake. In the second
scene we king is Shawn in his chariot, sheeting arrows against his
foes, who are named ‘Shasu‘ (Bedains). Fortiﬁed water—staiiens
appear here else and a beacon or watch-tower of King Ramanma.

The following representation is one of the most remarkable in
Egypt, for it clrsarly proves than a kind nfSucz Canal, Le. a canal
cliviriing Africa from Egypt, existed as early as the time of Set-i I.
The relief represents the king on his homeward journey. His
syiriied horses prance along before the light chariot, which carries
only the Pharaah and the heads of his slain enemies. [The kin v’s
favourite horse is named ‘Ammon gives the sword’.) in his left hand
the king holds the reins and his bow, and in his right the sword of
victory, the scourge, and a. number of cords to which Pinioucd
enemies are fastenedr Three of the hirer lie drags after him, and
three rows of Asiatics fastened Logatlmr by the neck precede the
horses. The bastions with reservoirs which the procession has to
pass are represented at the foot of the relief, in accordance with the
ycculiar Egygtisn system of ycrsnectivc. The desert—station imme~
diataly beside the hind heels of the king‘s horses is called Mlgdol of
King amenmc. (Migdol is a Semitic word meaning a fortiﬁed tower
generally.) Between the hind and forelegs of the horses appears
another fortress, called the caséle of the lions. The train of return-
ing warriors is separated from their Egyplian facherland by a canal
{nil (pf crncodilei . That this is not merely an arm of the Nile is in—
dicated by an inscription above the bridge, to the right, which
names it Ta gamut, ale“ literally ‘the cutting‘. The crocodiles, whic i
do not live in saltwater, show that t is canal was supylleri from
the Nile; still the two grouys of ﬁgures on the farther bunk Show
that it marked the boundary of Egypt. 111 the upper group are
priests and grandees, with curious nosegays in their hands, who
await the Pharaoh with low oheisancss; in the lower group the
wgman raise their hands in greeting to the reluruing king, wlw
brings with him their husbands and sons. The inscription runs:
‘The priests, the great ones, and the princes of Upper and Lower
Egygt approach t0 welcome the gcod goal (-‘c. the king) on his re—
turn from the Syrian land, with enormous booty. Never has the
like happened since the time or" the god”, 129. probahiy since the
time of Rs. -— The ‘cutting' which thus divided Asia and Africa
can only he the csual by means of which the. early Pharaohs en—
:lnavoured m unico the Nile with clicked Sea (comp, Vol. 1., 9.427),
the through communication from €ch Rm} Sea to the Mediterranean

anngxm‘s Upper Egypt. ‘9
Page-88
130 Route 11-. KARNAK. East Bank

being then compieteﬂ by the l’elnsiae arm of the Nile. The canal,
frequently snﬁered to fall into disuse, was restored by Nekho (7th
cent. EC.) and at. u. later period by Darius I. Communication
between the Nile and the R95. Sea was maintained even mailer the
Arabs, but it was afterwards interrupted, and. not restored unlit the
construction of the present fresh-water canal by Lesseps. The
hestions which :iefenéed it are those that compelled the Jews oun 'ng
the Exodus to uhange their NE route at; Ethan: or Eiam i. e
the fortiﬁed places (kheiem)7 and to turn towards rhe Rail Sea (in
the S. The relief, which is gradually heceming more and more
indistinct, deserves careful study. The conqueror of the Semitee,
who is here joyfully welcomed as he ayyroaches in his chariot, is
{he ancestor of the Pharaoh of the Bible narrative who perished in
the Red Sea.

The victorious monarch next appears, after his errival at Thebes.
As in the upper representation, he conducts to Ammon two rows of
rebellious Asiatic princes, canmreﬁ in the Iaml of the Reimmu, and
presents to the god magniﬁcent vessels.

We have now returned to the door by which we left the hypo—
etyle hall. If. is adorned with the name of Ramses the Great.
To the right and left are two colassai companion reliefs, in which
Amman is represented holding several rows of captives by cords, and
presenting the weapons of victory to King Seti, who raises his sword
against a band of foes whom he holds by the hair. The name—rings
on both sides refer to the conquered tribes. The legend on the relief
to the 16st nemwerehy: ‘Ho smites the great ones of the Anne;
Mentau {with the symbols of the shepherds}, all the remote regions,
all lands the Fenekhn {thnlcian5) of the sea—region, the Sari,
the great circle of the green ocean (i. e. the Mediterranean Sea).

We turn next to the represen.ation on the RIGHT LW. )Srnn of the
door. To the extreme right, at the corner of Pylon IE , above, we
see the storming of Kntesh in the land of Amara (the Amorites).
This is the fortress which offered such serious resistance to the army
of Thimes 111., and it was the greatest obstacle to the victorious
yrogrcss of the Egypiien army in the wars of Seii and, his son
Ramses, The scene is ﬂepicted with great vividness. The Aramaic
fees of the king {the lilieta) alipear both on foot and in chariots;
and Seti overcomes his loss ﬁghting else on foot anti in his char iot.
The fees, who wear curious yeaked howls, line in wild confusion.
The Egyptian artist here shows some appreciation of landscape
effects. A forest region is represented, though somewhat crudely,
with six different kinds of trees and. shrubs. A hard of oatﬂe he-
ionging to the Kheta, terriﬁed by the approach of the king, ﬂy from
iheir premix-e, accompanied by the herdsmen, who toss their arms
in despair. Katesh is when, and she defenders are thrown from
the walls. This is the only relief that has been preserved in the
ugper row.
Page-89
at arms. KARNAK. 11. Route. 131

In the second row1 to the right, the king in his chariot dashes
against the diseomﬁted foe, and. aims a blow at a hostile leader,
distinguished by a {earthen Next the king on foot deals the ﬁnishing
blow with his lanes to an ofﬁcer, who has been brought. to his knees.
To the left the victorious manareh fares homaward, preceded by
two rows of prisoners, named ‘hi ants en tahi’. The small ﬁgure
behind the chariot is the crown-prince Ramses. Then follows the
presentation of the yrleoners, whe are called Retennu and Tahemm
(Le. crystal—coloured, white), to Amman, Mnth, and Khnnsu, who
also receive the captured gold and vessels. -— Similar representa—
tion: eceupy the lowest row. T0 the right is the pursuit of the
Khete in than“ chariots; The Inscription above compares the king
to Sxiieklr ami Baal; to a. wolf and a lion, that rennin through the
lay—paths, to a ball that destroys the enemy in their blood. To the
left is the hemeward jenrney. The king leads captives on foot, and
hehiml him is a chariot ccntaining tattered priseners, and precedetl
by two rows of the same. He brings his captives in the Thehan trial},
who are here accompanied by the goddess Mat. There also are Rm
tennu, brought by the king frem the land of Khete ‘te ﬁll the lordly
palace of Ammon’.

e. The elder E. part of the Temple of Ammon.
I, From the Hmmatyie Hall to ”M5 Sanctuary.

We now return to the central row at lefty columns with the
cslyx~enpitsls, and follow it eastwards to Pylon 11.7., which we pass
through on our way towards the sanctuary, like the more highly prim
vilegeti worshippers admitted to the temple in early times. This
yart of the temple has been terribly destroyeﬁ, but enough has been
left. standing to afford an iﬂea (if the general arrangement, The
picturesque elfect of the ruinous scene is enhancer} by ﬁne variety
of artistic farms employed, and by the tall and slender shape of the
largest obelisk in Egypt, rising tram the midst of the ruins, and
testifying to the past proud splendour «this truly r0yalerli1lce,whlclr
has been ruthlessly women under too: by the menemnons cycle of
years enﬁ shattered by war and earthquakes. ~— The nearer we
approach to the sanctuary the older are the parts of the temple we
traverse: The inscriptions aﬂerd materials for ascertaining the date
of each different portion; while the practised eye will net; ﬁnd it
difﬁcult to eupyort the conclusions thus arrived at by comyarison
of the suecessive styles of art. We here and the yelygonal pillar-
column and the ﬁnely carved bud-columns, bearing clear and un—
mietakeable evidence as to the idea, to which this order owed its
origin. The third pylon seems to have marked the limit at the
tem le under the early empire, before the gigantic buildings of
the See Dyn‘ were added. The W. side of this pylony within the
great hypnstyln-helh still shows the incisions made-iii the W311

9
Page-90
132 Route 11. KARNAK. East nuns

fer the support of the ﬂsgmsmwes. The pylons lying to the S. were
built by the kings ofthe 18th Dyn., and were counseled with the side
of the great temple of Ammon, whence they were ruched by a door
heme-m Pylon 111 and Pylon 1V (p: 145}

On 11m rear of the left side of Pylon III is a long inscripaion
(unfortunately imperfect at the top): recording the gifts of Aman—
hotep III. to the god Amman; and to the left is tho representation
of several ships, recording a fesrivsl voyage instituted by the king
in honour of tho god in his noes. The sanctuary existoé hafore the.
Eyksos period, cerwinly under this 12th Dyn., and the conquerors
and. expellers of the intruders erected in honour of Ammon suc—
cessive additions, increasing in size as they recedeé from the
sanctuary.

On passing through the third ruined pylon into the Central
Coast (Pl. E), we come ﬁrst noon two Oar-1mm, of which, howsvsr,
one has boon destreymi, “rough Pococks saw show both erect in
1738. The standing obelisk {P}. g] is, like most; others, made of
granite from Che quarrios of Syenc (Aswan). It is 76 ft. high and
stands upon a. base 6 ft. square. Only the lower portions or“ the
inscriptions on its faces are seriously injured. The central rows are
in larger and ﬁnsr hieroglyphics than tho skis—rows. The former
(ltd-a from the limo of Tamas 1.? line latter contain tho names of
later appropriators of this monument. The usual formulae occur in
these inscriptions; Tutmes L, among other titles, is named the
victoryhringing Horus, who fulﬁls the years and enlivens the Marts.
He, ‘tho lorely son of the sun, eractorl this monument in honour of
his fact-.3: Amman, lord of the, throne of the world, who is wnrw
shipped in E. Thebes {‘Apet’}'. In ﬂan: of this obelisk are the
remains of s cubical basis, which probably served to support a
colossus. Tho two ohoh‘sks 21ml ﬁns colossus marked the entrance in
the temple in Hm reign of Tutmes 1.

Next follows Pylon IV, in such a ruinous condition that its ori—
ginal form cannot be ascertained. l1 dates from the time of Tut-
mss L, who is represented by the Osirisscolumus attacksd w its
inner-1E.) side. Only the N. ﬂoerwpillar is new standing. It bears an

exyrssssion of homage to Amman from Tucmes IV (0 w“ ' ’ 33$),

“3
but beneath she arm of the king is a short inscription, in which the

Ethiopian Sabako records a restoration of the temple by himself.
A similar reformer: to his campaigns opyonrs in the inscription on
the left side. 861‘. II. has also placeci his name upon this doorway.

The doorway closing the fourth pylon on the E. fell during than
inundation of 1885, Bayond its sit-e an a faw ruined lug-manta of
a structure, the origin“ arrangomone of whichjs only to he nnéer-
stood on the snpposiﬁcn that ﬁre nannies of columns owed on the
left and six couoles on the right, and that two couples were removal
from each_side to make room for two imposing abolish The
Page-91
a: 2mm. KARNAK. 11. Ram. 133

Right Obelisk has been overthrown, and the fragments of its shattered.
shaft am seen lying scattersd m‘Ouﬂi This top has fallen some
(listanca to the Ne T118 ’Iwﬂ Obelisk (Pl. h), still siamiiug, is this
largast obalisk in Egypt. The total height was estimated by the
engineers of Napoleon’s expedition at 971’ ,2 it», its diameter it the
base 83/ 2 fl. its mass 4873 cubic ft, and its weight 3613 BGHS. 1‘ ll:
is made of 11113 rad granite, and the inscriptions uyon it aw among
the ﬁnes: specimens of the grand style, which ﬂourisbsd a: the dam
of ii: erection. Queen Hausa Khnumt—Aman, who wan regent for
her brother Tutmes Ill. during his minority, and who eracted. this
monument? was a true chili oi” the Egyptian ‘age of chivalry’ which
diti not close until the reign (IfAmanhomp lVA, tins mn—warallipper.
He: name will frequently be met with again, Mpecially in he:
terrace-temple a3 Dér el—batu'i (p. 2‘23). She was the half-sister
of mo kings (Tutmss 11. and ’l‘utmes 111.), and was named
queen by her father 'l‘ntmas 1., yroba‘bly bacause.her number was
of purer royal blood than the moths: of he: halfvbmthers. After
her father‘s death she reigned in her own name along with Tut—
mes IL, whom she married, and on liar husband's decease she ruled
(in behalf of Tuﬁmes 1.1Li who appurs also on have been her mn-
in-law. Masculine in éisposﬂion, she csvrieii on ‘impomm wars
and reared large buildings. The less energeﬁc Tuimes II. yielded
to the guardianshiy of his sister and wife, but Tutmes llI. appears
to have early compelled. he: to relinquish to him “13 crown of Lowe:
Egypt. After Mr death 3m caused 1w: name m be chiselled out in
some places aml to be replaced by his own in otheu— an instance
of ihe imiverent disﬁgurement of monuments only too com-on
in amiant Egypt. Haiasu lilmumt-Ameu, the royal Amazon,
caused herself an be represented with the ornaments of ﬁlm mule
Pharaohs, Ami even with a baazd. Th6 beautiﬁxlly caved central
inscription, fermerly inlaill with electrnm or silver—gilt, sonﬁains
lim- nams alone; ihough she parmimd hm- brothei‘s name to appear
as the sides. Lute: usurpsm have my: antimly spared Man this noble
lonument. The sidewinscriptions comain short sameness with the
formulae usually employed for i116 presentation of gifm ana the
bamwing of tha blessings of life, while the central—inscriptions
refer to the dedication 0i this obalisks, One of she mscripticns is as
follows: “The mistress of the dindems, whose years do not wither
(literally ‘are green or fresh‘), the victory—bringing Horus, am, Hi—
mil, erected this as a monument to he: fathsr Amman, the lord 0f
the thrcuwg or both lands, while aim mama ewe obelisks ta him in
flan! of the pylon of Ammon Arsaylies, adorned with statues, and
inlaid it with a profusion of elecmim l'silvei’—gili.‘), in awe: that it
might shim; over both lands like the suns disc lieu: since cm

1' This Mics! known obelisk is tlm in the piazza in {rent of the La-
291311 at Home. which is 105 f2. hip. The oher obelisks' a: Borne are
smaller than the one in ihe text.
Page-92
134 Route 11. mnsn. Em! Bani:

creation of the world. lies anything been made like whet has been
erected by the child of the sun Khnumt—Ameu Hetesu, who bestows
life, eternal like the sun“ The queen is unifermly referred in by the
feminine pronoun, zlmugli slice is represented as a man sail named 5!»
son oi the snn’. On the rectangular been of the obelisk it is recorded
(N. side). that the queen erected it in seven months in the 16th and
17th years of her reign, and (E. side) that it was overlaid with gold.
that ﬁne queen herself weighed en: the necessary gold in sacks and
here, so that {5. side) the people en bath banks beheld it glittering
at sunrise. —— The obeliaks are enclosed by’a rectangular granite
wall, 12—15} (at. in height.

As we proceed towards the E? we pass another Pylon (Pl. V),
now completely mined5 and enter a. Swen» Samuelson, with Osirish
ﬁgures representing Tutmee I, In each of the spaces to the light
and leﬁ are ﬁve pairs of columns. Between ihem was a central
snace enclosed by Tutmes, with two of the Osiris-statues embedded
in the wall. An inscription informs us that this emrennéing wall
was mine by Tutmes Ill. to care: the monuments of his father
Tutmes 1.. ‘50 that the monuments of his farther Userteeen (12th
Dye.) and the menu-ants of his fathers, kings of Upper and Lower
Egypt, should not be seen in presence Of his ewn‘.

On the walls of this narrow room? and on ﬁlm right am} left of
the gateway with granite yillars which forms the opening enylon V,
are the name—labels of the peoples conquered by Tutmes lll. The
S. pecples are nameél on the right: ‘List of the S. lends, al‘ the
Ann limes from Khentulmn-nefer, defeated by His Majesty, he
wrcught havoc among them, their multitude is netknown,he brougln
all lira! belonged to them as living captives ta Thebes, to ﬁll the
work-house of Ammon-Re'. Beneath are 116 name—rings of con-
quered tribes cf the S. lands; ﬁrst those of Kush (Ethiegvians; the
ﬂush of Snrigmre), then ihose of Fun: (Arabians), and Lastly the
Libn (Libyans) On the left are the names (if N. peoples, above
which is an inscription: ‘List of the tribes of the upper Retennu,
captured by His Majesty in Magda, she miserable place, their
children brought by His Majesty as living captives to the fortiﬁed
place in Aphusn (Thebes) from his ﬁrst campaign, as commanded
him by Amman, who has led him by good pelhs’. (Two similar lie“
of N. and S. tribes, one of them being still more complem, are to
be found on Pylon VIII, lying to the 5.; comp, In 1463)

We now traverse a. kind of preﬁxes am} enter lira Sanctuary
(Pl. F), a chamber built at” herd granite. The frequent repetition
of the name efl’hilip Aridaaus on its walls might lead. one It ﬁrst to
Sullpose that this apartment is a. comparatively recent structure,
dating from the reign of this reynl puppet under Wham the power
was really wielded by l’telemy 1., son of Lsgus (Eater). But Philip
is here named 91111? as restorer, not as founder, and eerieln frag-
ments of statues found farther to the Er; afford a proql, as i shall
Page-93
at Ma. KARNAK. 11. Rouie. 135

see, that a temgle must have sinod uynn this spot. even before the
epoch of the HYKSQS: Thai-mining of every temple, wiilanut. excep—
tinn7 began with the construnt-inn of the sanctuary; and beyond
doubt, we are here standing in front of the most ancient part of the
entire temple of Ammon. The graniie yillers to the right and lefi,
on which a large 'ﬂowerncalyx appears between two smaller ones,
also (lute from Tutrues 11L Beyond these pillars and a small ante»
chamber we reach Elie space usually regarded as the Summary. It is
built entirely of pink granite, and is divided into two chambers, a
very uncommon arrangement, although easily explained in the presenc
case (see. below} The from chamber? opening t0 the “C, is l9 EL
long, the hinder one, opening to the 13., over ‘25 ft. The roof has
been nompletely destroyed; and a slab of granite, leaning obliquely
downwards, seems as though on the point of falling. The latter
was adorned with stars, and tracers of colour are seen both upon it
and HPGI’R the walls; but the sculptures were never fully completed,
and the red outlines which served as a guide to the sculptor may
still be made out here and there. The holes in which the door-
hinges were ﬁxed, still show traces of verdigris, a proof that the
hinges were made of copper or bronze;

The entire ﬂexible—chamber anti the pillars at MS entrance {late
ruin the reign of Tutmes lll, Mariette believed, probably with
justice, that the actual sanctuary, or at least the original sanctuary
of the 12th Dyn., lay behind (it. to the E of) the granita chamber,
because that wauld alone explain the opening at the back of the
chamber. A siele preserved in the museum at Glzeh records abut
the temple of Kernel; was in existence as early as ilie close of the
Mill :0an though then of little importance. Wilkinson found ihe
nanm of Amenumha 1, (12m Dyn.) rm 3 shattered pedegtal in the Sr
of the sanctuary; and an inscription of the 213tDy1r., discovered by
E. de Rongé in the sonihmost canrt of the temple (in the SE. angle,
to the right of the entrance by the pillars) contains an announcement
by a certain Amenhoiep, chief priest under Ramses 124., that the
sanctuary of the temple of Ammon was built in lire time of Userw
tesen I. and than restored by himsell‘l Two steles in the quarries of
Ma‘gara near Cairo (V01. 1., p. 4%) record that King Aahmes, the
malignant of the Hyksos, caused stones to be quarried for the
temple of Amman, in the 215$ and 221ml year of his reign. At all
events the ancient sanctnar ' small near the site cf the one now im-
fore us, if not actually on the same spot. Tutmes entirely rebuilt
it, providing it with We doors, a peculiarity commented upon
above. The W. entrance must have existed before his time, for
it was turned towards the portions 03‘ the. temple built by his
ancestors. When Tuimes, however, added. the lerge new struc—
ture further to the E. (p. 138), be connected it with the more an—
cinni holy place? diviliiug the lam: in two and adding a, W. door-
way, ea that it became the gnu! for the yrucassions fr an the
Page-94
136 Rouse n. KABNAK. rim Bank

well as from the W., and even for those advancing through the
series of pylons on the 51—1: is improbable that Camhyses caused
the destruction of this ‘hesrt' oi” the worship oi‘ Amman, 11‘ we may
use that expression, and Nectanelyos, who was a mighty builder
woolfl certainly have restored it? had it been lnjnrerl. 0n the olher
harnli7 nothing is more likely than that one of the later Persian
kings selected this temple for destruction after some abortive inn
correction on the part of the Egyptians in order to punish the rem
hellions province in its most sensitive part. Ptolemy Solar, who
held the reins for Philip Ariclazns, could have found no easier WAY
to win the hearts of his new suhjecls than to restore the holy places
destroyed by the Persians; while to do so was lo imitate Alex—
umler iho Great. In this pariicnlsr case ills work was not difﬁcult,
for though now Sculptures had to be provided for the adylom, its
walls were for the most part still standing. In the deﬂection-
inscription in the interior of the sanctuary, Philip records merely
that he had rcsiorcd with granite the sanctuary which was falling
to ruin , ‘which was huilt in the time of Tonnes 111., king of
Upper and Lower Egypt’; and a fragment of the older structure,
hearing on its upper side 5 representation of Tnimes offering gifts
i0 Ammon Generator, was used as a telling-slab in line rosioraﬁon.

The inscriptions and carvings on the Inner Walls of the ﬁrst
chamber are neither imposing nor specially lnleresilng. They siill
exhibit traces of colour, especially of the blue pigment, which was
lavishly used to make the ﬁgures stand onl more distinctly from
the reddish stone. Amman in both his main characters (Amman
Generator sncl Amman king of the gods) receives the homage of
Philip, or rather of the representative of the royal house of Macedon,
for it is corialn ihatPhilip never ordered the vslley of the Nile. Math
of course also appears with Ammon 7 and once is depicteti as
embracing him, an absolutely unique representation. The traveller
will see with surprise in this sacred spot a representation of the
king, under the sneplces of Khnnm, catching birds with s not, and
promising to bestow his booty upon Amman.

The Exterior- Wails of the holy of holies are covered with numer—
ous low reliefs and inscriptions, not easily seen on account of the
smoothness and polish of the granite. 0n the righe side (S) the
Pharaoh is in one plal‘a sprinklarl with the waier of life by Hor Hm
(Vol. 1., p. 133) and Tholh, and in another receives from them the
royal crown. Elsewhere we see the hos: of Ammon being hro‘ugh:
in solemn procession to the sanctuary, and the king oﬁering {our
calves of diﬁerenl colours (perhaps symbolizing the nations of the
four quarters of the globe, over which he watched as shepherd of
the people), The inscription records that Ammon-Rs, the hull (husk
baml) of his mother, is highly pleased with the beautiful monument
which Philip has erected lo him. and {hat he promises all kinﬂs 0!
gifts to the king in return. The foundation-ceremon s eh; men-
Page-95
at Thebes. KAENAK. 11, Route. 137

ﬁmied on this wail; and on the other {N} we see Philip offering
to the god of Thebes at a step—aitax. Various names of Upper and
Lowe: Egypt book place in this ceremony. Mention should be made
of a large ﬁaboﬂnm or leacberascreen, which agpears to conceal the
ﬁgure of Ammon, i.c. the hidden, the veiled. This symbolically
indicates that the deeper conception of she essence of the god must
remain hidden from the uni!) .iated.

Around the sancmary lay a number of apam’nema (now a}!
more or less destroyed) in which later kings, such as Seti 11.,
Sheshenk, and the Ethiopians Sabako and Tabarks, have inscribed
their names. The last plaoeii their inscriptions upon walls which
had been built much earlier, as the latest under Twines III. The
iast-named gieat warrior and builder caused a. list of his acquisi-
tions through we: to be carved near the holy of holies, and this has
proved, of the greaiest value for the history of his times: Part of
this inscriyﬁon was taken to Paris; what, remains at; Kamak is
much injured, though sci]! quite legible. It is to be fmmﬂ in the
passage to the N. of the sanctuary {1%. i), where it begins at the E.
end, is continued beyond the door, and than at the point where the
wall recedes to the W. First coyied by Lepsius, it, has been truiisw
lated by S‘ Birch anti H. Brugsch and several others, but it is too

long to aliow of more than an extract being here given.

Siatmen: of .‘he Aeguiat'ti’cm of Testiﬁes 111, The ﬁrst lines beiow,
half destroyed, contain tho royal commands to undertake ﬁx: placing of
ﬁns inscription In tine month Phamushi (the dsy is broken 0*?) of the
22nd year of his reign m ﬁrs: campaign was uuﬂertnken, from 23:
(Tania). (The victorioua king on his return in the following year mom:
to have got wind of the guardisnship of his sister Hetasui) The match of
the Egyptian Amy leads an ﬁrsi through we‘d-known towns, as the fortress
of the land of Shamhunu (Slim-on}, which begins 36 Joni-Eu. (Jerichoi), etc
On the: Mix «iay 0f the month Fokhon, in his 25rd year, the king ant-amped
before the fortress of Guam (Gaza?), and entered it in triumph on the
513:. He bra-ugh: the scanned prince then-so! to ruin, that he might
extend the borders of E ypf. according to the commands of his fame:
Amman 0n the {Gib akhnn in the same year 8313‘) he proceeded
against the fortress lhem, for the prince ofKMsah had marched in ﬂagﬁa
(H1 iddu). for tho disfenca of which the prince; from the ﬁver ni‘ Egypt
{W i ei-‘Ariskﬂ to Idesopotamia had unisad ihemseives sogether, and
among them :he Kim:- {Eyrims} and Kata (Galilmaos). on horseback and
on foo: . . . . Thai-a was 11 choice of two wsys, and the king chase that
viii Aaluaa (Aiaioni). On elm ﬁlth Pakimn of the 23rd year. the king
swamped before she fL'X‘U‘eSS ofAihma, near which there must have been
a. uavignbin river as Tuimes made use of Ono The army pmwaxied
through the vailey of Aaiuna and At the seventh (Le. an auspiciou51‘nour
reached the bank 0!" the break of Kim: (Kmah) t1) the S. f Kegiddo.

Here she king piichod his iont aad'doiivomd an inspiriting space}: an
his troops. The ﬂying of the new moon. which was also the anniver-
sary of :he coronaiion. was ceiabrated on the 2151 i‘akhou. be king
monuma his chariot, which was richiy adorn-5d Willi silver gilt, and in
his war-inmost: (resembling Horus, Xenia ‘ the god of battles, and his
iaiher Amman, drew up his troops in two wings and a centre, which ins
himself wmmmdeai. The hauls began in aha plain of 319431on andfhe
enemy was éafaated. Their horses were taken, and their golden chagiets
Wm: silverwork, eic. The prince of Eases]: and :be prince of Eogid§0
were drawn upinio The iorireao by their garments. and s bile
Page-96
€38 Route i1. KARNAK. mu: Basic

ihe Egyptian soldiers fell upon (he goods that were left behindr Greli
booiy was captured; and me slaughtered enemies ‘lay in harps, like ﬁsh
uyrm {he ahore‘. The hosiile camp was taken, and Tuimen built a fori
to rennin the rebellious cit-y. The rewrti oi“ these dead: Wu inscribed
in a leather-r011 and. de oeiied in the temple of Amman, in she miéal of
which we are new etandag. The great ones at the land came to beseech
mercy and to bring tribute of eiiver1 geld . lapis-iazalh and maiuhiie,
They broughe also corn and wine, etc. Tim prisoners numbered 340;
$3 swarm! hands were reckoneri up; Ami W1 horses 19:1 (mite, and 6 buiis
were cepznrai The defeaieri Mao last it chariot inlalri with gold, a golden
charioﬁmx, a chariat beautifully inlaid with gold belonging to one of
the allied. prim-ion; and 592 wurrchariols of their warthlass wsrriorn, in
8}] 9‘35; :5 beauti‘ul suit of imn mail belonging £0 0E6 of the kings, and
ﬁre armaur of me King of Megiddo; 200 oiher suits of armeur, 50‘) bows,
and 7 siiver-mouniex’r posits from the royal mm of 12m enemy. -- The
ceptured oxen numbered 1929‘ goats ﬁlms and sheep 350,509, Other pri-
soners, incluéiug king‘ 50:15i were captured in diﬁerem strong places. an
were led along hehin-j the Pharaoh, is the number of 2503‘ Syrian me’sl
vewsels, and ether racial-work including sword were also among the
booty, to a iota! weight at“ 178415;: {10 kit 2: its 33/90“. of gold and
silver were there were 90812» ind :1 hr. There wag niso a statue, She
hear} Of which was of 5016‘ ivory, ebmiy§ anti sesame—wood (prnbebiy maxim)1
’ aid with gold. The yield of cow was anemone, amounting to
,Wlena (1 term = nearly ’3: bushei) of grain, ‘basidas what was cu:
down and borne eﬂ‘ by the saldiers cf the king‘. The other detaiis of the
tribute we omit. — Then inﬂows, probably for she sake 5f campariaon,
a. description or the tribute brought to the king in the 46th (23th '1‘) yen
of his reign from Syria and Amy-rip (Aesurﬁu --— The max: poriinns of the
inicripiiou have been removed and are now in the Louvre. lining been
acquired partly by purchase (from the Salt Cnllaaticu in 182$). anti partly
by git! to Prince Napoleon (the portions raxexcaveted by Euriutta, and
pnblirhed by Lepsius in his Answer!!! and by Mariette in his Katmai).
These refer tn the capture of the iowue of Timex), in the 5th campaign
and 29th year of the king‘s reign? and Amihut7 in the 6th campaign and
3023 year, in the lead ef Bitten, wish the lie: of the booty end caetives,
including me Eim’s sons and brothers. They also cerium rm: 0! booty,
of the 3'.“ year, ran: the turn; of Ariana-rue. on the lake Nea--ro~a.n. and
of the 83rd year, from the land of Eaten and Nahsrsin (Mesopommﬁs)
with “:6 Earn: of Ni; the tribate from inhabiiaues of Marian, Singer
(with real and artiﬁcial iapiedazuli), of ﬁlm Khan, Punt. of the em. your
from (113 land of 2mm upmreé towns, horses, chm-mtg, goléen uten-
sils, em, also from the king of Baden. Asebi (Cypru) and Kush had also
8:; pay a high tribute 32m letter chieﬂy in gold. in “:th2: year, in his
Nth campaign‘ the kiﬁg me? an“. defemed the Assyrian “my near Ariamy
The records at me remaining campaigns and She lieu of boozy are still
in their origiuni pasiiinu. The i3th expedition (35th year) WW agxhuai
the ﬂown of Amugeb Mid was fallowaq by tribute from zmu Aruma
Arirekh, Pant, and Warm: (to she S. of Egypi); the Hm campeigu
(39th year), agginut the Shaw. and Rumn‘ was marker! by the destruction
«if the towns qumntu and’l‘unep. Finaliy appears the aommaud to erect
a memoria‘x table: of 9.11 these victories.

In the same wrridar as the above inscriptions? appear repre—
sentations of the gifts presented no the temgﬂe by Tuimes 111.,
including the two obelisks mentioned at p. 133.

 

 
  

2. Large Building of Tufmea HI.

Continuing our progress still towards the E. beyond the sanc-
tuary, we reach first a ﬁst oyen spree (P1434), Mon: 80 paces
wide, in which, immerﬁately behind the sanctu at” few
Page-97
at Thebes. KAR‘HAK. 11. Route. 139

scamy relics of the earliest rocognizahle buildings of {118 99mph; of
the 1‘21}. Dynasty. Farther on, in the axis of the sanctuary, are We
square granite bases, one behind the other, being the relics of
sixteen-sided columns, with the name of Usertesen I. A little
further to tho E. is the doorway of the ~~~~~~
Great Colonnade of Tntmes 11191. H). The reports ofshe mili—
tary success ofthis prince, which we havejnstpernsed, Selling us of she
enormous wealth at his disposal, and still more the revsrenca which
wo son him paying to Ammon at evory turn , prepam us 60 ﬂuid in
this temgrle some important. building rosrml by him in his divine
patron. The space to the W. of the ancient sanotnary had already
been oconpiad by the ediﬁces of his ancestors , so that, as his new
building was also to mainlain connection with the holy place, he
was forced to build on tho site to the. E. W0 have already seen
how, contrary to the usual custom, he provided the sacrad granite»
chamber with a second doorway I: opening in the FL). The form and
appearance of the courts and chambers that lay between the sanc-
iunry and the coloritmdo cannot now he determined, for way have,
how utterly destroyed. The ancient; holy place) built by the kings
of the 2th Dyn. was probably surrounded by two concentric walls,
separated by an archway or passage. The colonnaded hall, which
we outer by the central door, is 144 ft. wide and 529:. (loan. The
roof was snpno: ted by 20 columns 111 two rows; while 32 square pilm
132s {14 at the sides. is at the ends) formed four gs. arias with the
walls of the hall. The pillars though not so tall as the columns, were
of the same height as tho walls, and with the latter supported the
roofing slabs. As this middle of the hall was also runl’ud, a small
wall, with sloping exterior and decorum-Ml wink the aserngnl and eon—
cave cornice, rose from the roof above the pillars and walls to the
height of the columns in the centre. Thai-e was thus formed a kind
of clnrcscory, which was provided with rectangular windows, broader
than they were high, in order to admit light to the hall. The central
columns belong in a. peculiar order the various parts of which on
the shaft and capital warn indicated only by painting.‘1'hey have
10111de tho name of ‘invcried Maw—capital! because the bells or
calyces were placed inverted on she smooch shafcs,wl1iuli were
painted a dark red and adorned with vertical inscriptions, recalling
the similar decoration of the central panels of the hated polygonal
columns. Asthe edge of the: ﬂower-calyx rested upon the and of the
shaft, the latter expandad a: the top, with some abrnptness; and
the annnli had in consequence to he placed somewhat low down
on the cylindrical shaft (below the beginning of the sxyansion),
to sue them from the appearance of slipping down. The capitals
are sdozmnti with calyx- or marshwplmts, the tips of which, of 90mm,
1min: dcnmwihrclsa In place: of elm fruit-germ, those inverted cs-
lynes snppon somewhat lofty abacl, on which rests an architrave
adorned with ﬁne hieroglyphiea. The fourth abacus oaths E 3159
Page-98
140 Route 11. KARNAK. East Bani:

(now in the Louvre) bears on its N. side an inscription of the king
Takoluin The. method of unlﬁng capilal and shaft gives evidence
of gaming artistic: feeling; hm tho general effect of this style of
column was unattractive, and after its employment here it found. no
admirers and was given up. » This hall contains no inscriptions
of general interest. Th6 hieroglyphic characters on the mohierove
are carved in elm lame and handsome Mylo (lithe 18th Dyn. , but
they merely announce in the usual formal way that Tntmes Ill.
hailt the hall of line limestone and sandstone in honour of MS
father Amman.

The S~ part of the ram—~Wall of this hall in adjoined by a
chamber in which seven wall—made yolygonal columns 316 still
stanéing. Two small doorways lead from the centre of the colon-
nadorl hall into a SAKCTVARY (Pl. 1), on the from of which the name
Alexander may ha read. This. howevar, does not. refer to the great
conqueror of Darius, but to his and Roxann’s son, Alexander IL,
a royal puppet for whom Ptolemy L Sate: ruled. Another inscrip-
tion informs us that Tut-mes built this sanctuary also. The: latter
was probably mod for spﬂciul cults, whilo, as we have soon, the
granite room of Philip Aridmus (p. 134) must be regarded as the
holy of holies pamper, oven for this temple. The colours on the
walls of this room are in good proservaﬁon. In spite of the ruins
and rubbish lying abom hem the traveller shoulxl not omit to gimme
imo the chambers of the rear calonnaded hall. One of them mm
coins an interesting representation. The god Seth (Vol. 1., p. 132;
here half defaced) of Nub (K6111 Ombo) touches Tnimes II. to
shoot with the lam", While Horus inolmctx him in She use of the
lance. The hostilo twin-brothers hosiow upon the Fharaoh svength
to Win viotozy, which is symbolized by the vulture ofvictozy hovering
show the group.

The Columns which are still standing in the binder portions of
the temple are of loom-est as specimens of the favourite orders under
the 18th Dynasty. Near the canere font beautifully sculptured pa-
pyrus-bud columns stand in a row fmm E. to V11, and a few paces
lo the RW. alto two nolygonol columns uniﬁed by an srollltxove. in
Room Y, excavaiod by Motions, me some interesting mpmsonfaﬁlono
of animals and plants, which. as the accompanying insoﬁptiona
inform us, were transplanted from liaison“ (Assyrla) to Egypt by
Tonnes 111., in the ﬁlth year of his reign.

W5 now turn to me 8., to tho Eidemli’uilding of the temple of Ttw
mes Ill, (Pl. K), where them are 9 chambera adjoining each other,
each opening to the N. The two at the E. and are halls, each with two
columns in support the roof} while of tho other seven aluminum three
are completely ruined. Opposiio tho wosmmmoize of these low tho
chamber which conﬁinod the colabntoé Kama]: Table-z of the
Kings (Vol. 1., 5:. 8h}, transferred to Parts by Prisso d‘Avomms
And new in the Bihllolhéone Nationals. Only ghoul 49 of the
Page-99
a: Thebes. KARNAK. 11. Route. 141

60 cartouches which it included, are now legible. Basiciss the cele—
brateai kings of the earliest dynasties, the series embraces especially
the kings of the 11th Dyn. (the Amnf) and cf this 1213:, 13th. and
17th (conquarcrs of the Hyksos) Dyn, who all probably resided at
Thelma. The names, however, are not in chronological order.
Omitting for the present the lake (1:. 144) in the S. of this raw
of chambers, we return «3 tbs middle of the building and quit it
by the girdiemwaii on the E. Immediately behind the wall Ramses II
builta Hail (Pi. L), adorned with csryatides, new comyieteiy ruined.
About 40 paces fart-her E., and connected will: this hall, is a small
Temple (Pl. M), built by the same Pharaoh: but so ruined as to
present little» of interast. Caryatidns were euxplnynd hem alsn; and
two papyrus—bud celumns may be mentioned, or; which ths place
of the usual cubical abaci is occupied by tolerabiy high fragments
of earlier poiygcnal shafts, utilized in the samu manner as the Arabs
used the frugmsnts of Greek and Roman temnies. Boycnd these
ruins1 and still farther to the E, is the well—preserved Pylon VI.
[82 ft. high), which must be regarded as the main entrance to the
great temple of Ammon fer those approaching from the E. Outside
it turns of the giréie-wall of the temple, built of bricks of Nile
clay, may will be found. This eastmost yylnn has few sculpturas,
but the inscriptions imiicate that it was erected by Nekht-nebf, i.e.
Nectanebus EL, who had not timeto ﬁnish its decoration. Thisprince,
who ascanded the throne of tha Pharaohs during the Persian 0:3 and
wsgad successful wars, sspeciauy in Umwr Egypt against the sntraps
of the Asiatic invaders, foumi both courage and means, hard pressed
and threatened as he was, to areci ilportant buildings not only
here but also on the lslanri of Philae and elsewhere. Thus the pylon
which limited the temple of Ammon t0 the E. may be regardmi as
a tangihls proof of the obstinate independanca of the Egyytians. ——

This pylon is 910 yds. distant ﬂom the ﬁrst QW.) pylon.

I! we turn to the right (8.} outside the E. pylcn of Nactnneims H. We
soar: reach a small building bearing the car-touches of garages 11!. and
Ramses IV. To its N. a! the pyiu-n lies a r6cent1y~axcavsted small Tmple,
in which ocenr the names of Amaniritis, sister of Sabako I. (25th Dyn.)
and consort of King Piaukhi, and. of their ciaughter Shay-an-npt, who
married Pummctikh i, (if the $661 Dynasty.

firm; 5. Sick of the Temple of Am. man.

We now return towards the W., re-enter the hypostyie court of
the great tsmple by the daor (Pl. d) mentioned at 3). 127, traverse
the aonrt from N. to 8. between the 4th and 5th rows of columns
(reckoned {mm the second pylon), and quit it by the door at P2. e. If
we turn and face the outside of ﬁns S. wall of the temple , we ﬁnd,
so the left, representations of ihe towns of Palestins captured by
Shesheuk (aescribed on y. 1‘23)y and7 to the right, various military
ra101‘ass-liltntirrnsi ref-arriving to tha campaigns of Ramses II. against
the Khata {Aramaans}. The Epic of Pentaur, referring to tha ame
Page-100
142 Route 11. KARNAK. East Bank

campaigns, which we have already met with on the pylon at. Limo:
(9. ii?) and which will be mentioned again when we visit the
Ramesseum (p. 1611.), seems also here in long but not easily acces-
sible lines of hieroglyphics, About. 40 ft. to the right (E) of tha
(100: through which was quilt-s11 ills hypostyle, a short: wall 1110324568
at right angles from the wall of the great tsmpls, basting a most
interesting and imparmnlinscripﬁon, containing the Twenty of Peace
destined to put an and to the wars between the Egyptians and the
Asiatics.

This is themosi; ancient internatiousitrssty sxtnniin the world, and it is
as remarkable for iis cements as for its form, which is so conceived in the
essential saints that modern écsumenls of a similar aim differ {rem i:
only in tho gmatsr concisencss (if their expressions. The bottom cf the
inscription is «:2 grssani concealed by rubbish. The menu is datsi the
2132 'l‘yb' in ﬁlm 2131. ya»:- of King Ramses II. Mimun, in the town 01'
Tania, tie. the Rumsestown. Th8 Kiwis prince caused the treaty to be
engravesi on a silver isble ami sent am ambassaéor 10 seek peace. The
dominant proper, divided inzc psragraphs sud translated by tho emineni
French Egyplologist F, Chablis, begins as follows: ‘Formerly aml for a
long period the mighty king of Egypt and the prince of the Khan lived
in good underslluuiing (Gull granﬁ llmi hoslilily never again exist between
them), Nevertheless his declared War against this great king (Sail I.) of
Egypt, in the time of Nautilus, my broiber, prince of the Kiwis. Bu:
from 90-day and from this day Khomsur‘ rinse of ﬁlm Khan, makes a
"only in ordar to arrive at a lasting Banal-standing May Rn, may Seth
lené them endurance, as well for Egypz as ior the land of the Ebola
{Amman}, so that hostility may nevus again arise beiween them. ~— The
fulluwing points wen—i agreed upon: Khutasnx'a princa of 21m Khata. unites
with Rsmsns Mismun, the mighty king of Egyps, to amuse to exist between
them good peace and. good alliance lrom this day onwards forever. He
shall be allied with me, he shall be at panes with me; and l, I shall be
alliad with him, and I, I shsll be at peace with him forever‘. After a
brief historical retrospect, the treaty goes on: ‘The prince of the Elwin
will navar again invade Egypi tn cam-y oll‘ anything whstavar (ml: of it,
and Ramses Minmun, the mighty king of Egypt, will nave: invade liie
inn‘i cf the Klieia, to carry all‘ anything whatever out of it‘. Then, after
smell"): historical mlmspucl: ‘thu enemies turn against Elia land cf
Ramses Mismun, the mighty king of Egypt, he will send is the prince of
the Khaki the message, ‘Come and units thyself with my might ngainsl
them‘. The prime of lha Khan. will be at 13:15 disposal of this king of Egypt
and will smite his enemies If the prince of the Kiwis floss amt take the
ﬂslé in person, he will send his ioohsoldiers and war chariots :0 slam:
the enemies 0f the king of Egypt . . . . and vice vmi (will: repetition
of the: above paragraph) ——.’i‘hen follsws a remarkable eonvsnlioa by
which the parties to the treaty bind illemselves not to use force in preventing
skillei‘i workmsn from meaning from one country into the. ollnsr, Tin: gods
and godilzssas, the Bulim of the land of the Khem (translated ‘Sei'n‘l,
Astute, and s ‘t’uousané‘ local deities mountains, and rivers are mvuksd
as witnesses by the Asiaticn, while the {Egyptians in‘mke Amman Ea, Sella,
the warlike galls and goddessas, the mounlnins and rivers of Egypt, tbs
shore sf the Mediterranean, the wind, and the clouds. These powers ire
to punish the breaker of the treaty; while lo him who keeps it they shall
grant life, to him and to his lmuseg his same, and his servants 3'le
follow two rsmnrkabla articles in which the mntrscslng psi-lies hind
themselves mutusliy is axiradile criminals; enough by acnndiiisn which
speaks highly for the civilization reached by boll: nations. his crime
‘ahall net. he yes-mined to raise itself agains: the extradited criminal, is.
the criminal prunes: against him shall be suspended, um no harm alum
be done to his house or to his wife, or to his ch drum; 1m 51ml)
3180 not be yuuisheé in the eye, mouth, Oll'meQE m sever no
Page-101
at Thebes. KARNAK. 11. Rome. 143

amnuiinn of crime shall be brought agﬂnat him. The lull legible linen
of she inscription us as follnwu: “On the front (1f um silver table is the
ﬁgure of the statue 03' Sesh, embracing the statue of the prince of the Kheta‘.
The encirclin inscription runs: ‘0 ﬁgure of Seth, king of heaven and
earth, grant 3 at the treaty which linemen, prince of the Khela etc. . . . .’

II. The Northern Buildings.

A visit to tbu ruins in the H. of the lemplu of Ammon well not
detain she traveller for any long time, azaleas his object he to dcniphe: the
inactipeiuna and $9 gather from them philologl-zal or hiaaorieal infarmaliou.
They are in bad preservation; and the I”? group, the temple 0! lbs war
god Manta, is in especial so completely ruined that it is difﬁcult to recon-
uirucl lie ground-plan, although in size it. was originally as large as the
temple of Klnunsu (p. 148). The traveller who has little time at his
disposal, or who must proceed with l‘ne steamer. may content himself
with a glance at the great N. girdle—wall of Nile-bricks, and a! she gate
of the Ptolemies.

Beginning at the E. Pylon of Necisuebus (p. 145), we skirt the
girdle—wall of the great temple of Ammon, ﬁrst to the N. and than
to the ‘W. (left), uni-ll we see upon the right or N. side of our pull:
another girdle—wail of Nile—bricks. Within this lies a ruined Temple
(Pl. N , the axis of which lies SW. landﬁll. Like the N. pylon (see
below) it was dedicated to Menfu, the god of war, and is frequently
mentioned on dammit: tiles (051mm), Stretching NE. fmm {his
building is an avenue of sphinxes, which we reach on passing
through the dam 0f :1 well-preserved pylon. Little new remains of
the temple, whisk dues from the time of Amcnlioeup III. of the
18th Dyn. (who also (named two cbolisks, as 3ppears from a l'ragn
mantaty inscxiption found here), though it wes subsequently several
times enlarged between the reign 02‘ Ramses IV. and the epoch of
the Ptolemiss, especially by Ptolemy 11Ve Philopator. Ptolemy ll:
Philadelphus and Ptolemy Ill, Euergetes have recordexl their names
here, and share is also a strum bearing the name of ‘Rmnses’. The
earlier sculptures and arehltacluml fragments are of great beauty;
and calumns with Hathor capitals were also employed. The above-
menﬁoned Pylon (Pl. Vll‘}, the most N. part of the ediﬁce new
remaining, was founded by Helsmy ll. At its fast is a list. of
nomas, and highs: up are numerous other inscriptions. The l‘e'llélgln
boys are shy of aceempenying travellers to this spottowards evening,
as it is said to be haunted by an ’Afrit or devil. It is called. by the
natives Btib el-‘Abld. gr gate only: negro—slams, probably on account
of some of the Iapxesenuﬁons or. its walls.

From 11:5 pylon we proceed co the SAY.1 passing the remains of
a Ptolemaic tampleflll’l. 0), of which the staircase is still to be
seen, to another Temple, consisting of six smell chambers (Pl. k
to p}. The second from the W. (Pl. l} contains the name of Alllﬁ'
niritls, with that of her brother Sabako. The ﬁne alabaster statue
of the queen, now in the museum at Gizeh, was found here. ’l‘lua
temple 1! shows the rue name of Nepherites (29th Dyul); 0 «lales
from the 22ml Dynasty. The names of Tahaxka, 03 5:9 _ d