
Page-200
144 Ram 12. KARNAK. East Bank

quean Karomat, and on the wall of the second. shamhar, 0! Taken
iut II. and his consort Koromame, may be read here. The last
chamber (P1. p) dates from Necianehus I.

. . On the other side of the girdla-waﬁ, :12. (we: the lulu, is another
Buiiding (PL P)i erected by Tutmes III,j but Where also are {Wild
this names of King Horns, Sebako, Taharka, and several of the Pto-
lemies, including Philometor and N605 Dionysus. This temple was
dedicated to Piaf: and Esther, whose priests are represented. In a
chamber, which may he described as tha Primates, are traces 0f the
staircase leading to the roof, new fallen in. Here 3159 are two poiyu
genai coiumns, which, taken in connection with dedicewry inscrip—
tion, indicate that the erection of the temple was begun under the
iSth Dynasty. As we again apyroach the hi Wall of the hypostyie
cf the great temple and the nicer by which wo issue& (.0 View this
battle—reliefs of Seti I. (p. 1‘27), we pass, a little to the N. of the
latter, two small ruined temples {PL Q) of the 28th Dynasty. The
princes of this illustrious line were less able to rear elaborate builds
ings at Thebes in proportion as they devoteé tha means at their
disposal to building magniﬁcent temples in honour of the gods 0!
Memphis and still more of Sa‘is, their residences in Lower Egypt.
These little temples, new surrounded by the ruined huts of a de—
serted Arab village, were, streaming to the inscriptions, built by
Qusan Arikhms, who hem aypeurs with Paammetikh III. (perhaps
her son?) and with her husband Aahmes. Ankhnes was the daughter
of Psa-metikh II. To the right of the entrance and in the doorway
to the left of the smelter temyle is the queen acmmpanied by her
young chamber-lain Sheshonk, ascion of the Bubnstites of the 22nd
Dyn., in Whose veins ﬂowed royal blood. Nitocris, wife of Psemme-
tiiih 11., also appears in the second doorway of the interior. He:
magniﬁcent sarcophagus is now in tins museum at Gizeh, white that
of Queen Ankhues is in the British Museum.

111. The 5011:th Buildings.

The short projecting wail, en which is the treaty mentioned at
p. 142, is part of the series of courts and pylons which cannected
the temple of Ammon with that of Mirth, lying t9 the S. Before
inspecting thie remarkable part of the grant temples, we ﬁnni our way
through the ruins to the somewhat more (iistam Like. The Arabs
name this Birket el—Malmhe}: or Lakeof the Salt—pit, as the water has
become saline and undrinka‘bie through inﬁltration. It is known
that each temple formerly possessed s. Sacrzd Lake, and there is no
doubt that in antiquity the golden boat of the ged used to ﬂoat upon
the water of this pond, kegt pure and fresh. The banks were an—
cienﬁy faced with heWn stones, and traces of these are still to he
Been (In the W., 8., and especially on the N. or newest side, though
if? most paints they were covered by rubbish in the course of ages.
Between this lake and the part of the main temyle that anclased. the
Page-201
a2 Thebes. KARNAK. 1 I. name. 145

granite sanctuary (p. 184) are a few hall‘nrninetl chemhers forming
a kind. of annexe to the S. wall of the temple, and partly constructed
of alabaster, a substance rarely used for building. The ruins
nearest the lake date from the reign of Tutrnes 111., those ﬁrmne-
dietely adjoining the temple-well from the reign of the Ethiopian
’i‘nharka. 'A square apartment, dannraleli with paintings of which
the colours are still vivid, displays some curious deities, pmbably
Elhicpian, but only the upper parts of the paintings are now visible.

We now return to the doorway opening to the 5., between the
third and fourth pylons (p. 132], upon which ie the cariouche of

Ramses IX. 3: Lj Ra nefer ka. To the SAV. of thjs paint; in an

irregular line and at varying distences fram each other, an) Pylom
VIII, IX, X, and XI. From the last of these an avenue 4):” sphinxes
(now concealed by a small wood) stretches to the temple of Mirth.
Pylon X1 is turned. towards this avenue, but the pylons X, 1K, and
V111, sueceerljng each (ache: towarde‘the hi, gradually mm; {318
transition to the great temple: of Ammon by their glositinn and the
angle they sland at with reference to the S. wall of the great temple;
for, as will be seen from the Plan, none of them is exactly parallel
with that wall. The four yylcns are connected. with each other by
sirlwwalle running at irregular angles, anti thus enclosing four
courts, which, however, are no longer clearly deﬁned owing to gaps
in the walls. Through these four gateways passed the ancient pro-
cessional route, which began at the temple of Mirth, in which were
the nﬁnluae of Sekhei (p. 148), and emlnd a: the sample of Ammon
in the space with the two ohelisks {79. 132), which may be regardeﬁ
as the vestibule of the sanctuary.

The series of four Courts between the pylcns, which we now
visit, had an aggregate length nf 310 yds. (not reckoning the shhian
avenue). It was begun in the early times of the 1811: Dyn. {Tut—
mes 1.), and was afterwards several times enlarged and adorned.
Beginning at ihe gateway of Ramses EX. (see above), we have an
our right the fragment of wall (probably (lacing from Seii I.) on
the W. side 01“ which is the famous creaiy (p. 142), and on ihe
left the well running to meet Pylon V111, and probably dating like
that pylon from Tutmes 111. On the front of this latter well king
Morenptah, sen cf Ramses 11., caused an inscription of great intern

est to he carved.

)8er this We learn ibzt lhe king vicluriouely 01);")le the Libyans
and their allies, the islanders of the Modilarranenn, whose later expeditions
ageing: Egyp! are recordei in she inscriptions e: Medina: Hahn (p. 177).
Under- his father the Egyptians had advanced lnw Ania; new, the peoples
to the W, and N. 0! Che Nile valley, the Libyan; and Enzyme, aml will:
zham Lycians, Sardinia-us, Sicilians, Achﬁans, and a lribe named Pnlasta
(more probably l’hillalinae than Pelaagima), Lint-e to invade aha Della 3nd
to dwell there like previous kinge’ (is, pruhably the Hykaus). hieranpteh
assembles an ”my, and encouraged by a ﬁrearm, defeats the allies. The
number of the slain and the runs! valuable portions of l. i:- lie'

Bnnugknn‘s Upper Egypt. i
Page-202
146 Rom n. KARNAK. East Bank

tsilwi. Thu iriumyhaui king (10!!!! not forgot his faﬁhar Amman, in whose
temple ha saunas the record of his victory to be insaribad.

Though Tutmos III. creator! Pyton VIII, Manama}: aftor~
wards npyropriamd it to himself. On the side to the left of the be“
holder the S. tribes‘ and on the right side, the N. tribes are de-
picted as captives, with their name-rings.

The lists seem to have been edited three times. At ﬁrsi there were on the
left only ‘7 names, written from ‘mﬁ so right, and vn ﬁre right {)2 names,
written from right in left. Subsequently three rows, writlan in the oppo-
sile ﬂirectlon ware, sddeﬁ to the ﬂares lowest rows —- on the lar’é‘tfne
name~rlngs Ali-70‘ 71-95, 95-117, and on the right this name-rings 51-74,
76-97, %,119 w an that 11.7 S. tribes and “.9 N. tribes wan) recorded.
comsponﬁing with the two other long lists of tribes by ’l‘ntmes III. on
Pylon VI, in the grass lens-ls of Ammon, and on the B. side of 37km VII.
At a. still later dam (Possibly nae till Esreuytslx‘a resign) 152 nnne~rings

were added st. the arms on the left (5. tribes} and 2&0 name-rings on the
ends on the right (N. tribes).

On the right {11.) end of the N. wing of Pylon vm is 9. short
inscription of the ‘215: Dyn., relating to the restoration of the rights
of a Princess Rsmska. The other {5.) side of the pylon consists of
two portions, some disiancs ayart, rspresenting Tutmes III. seiz-
ing prisoners in prasonce of Ammon. Orr tho 1mm. side) are lhﬁ
N. tribes. described as the great ones of the Retennu. of all the
remote (sets) lamis, of the Fenekhu {Pbenicians}. 0n the right
(131.) side are the peoples of we 8. Before tho centra of (he pylon
are remains of statues of Tutmes Ill.

The next court is much smaller than me courts between the
pylons farther to the S. The well-preserved Second Pyion (P1. 1X)
is interesting as she most ancisnt part of the entire building 16
was founded by Tutmes 1., and its gateway was provided with
inscriptions by his sons, Tutmes II. and Tutmes III. Tut—
mes I. is seen on the N. sido (left) worshipping ills triad of
Thebes; and boslée this representation is an interesting poeﬁc inn
scripeiou (damaged) extolling the might and the victories of this
prince. Above is the boat of Ammon Ra borne by priests, in from
of which is Tutmes 11. receiving the symbol of life from. the lion-
lxeaded Uarihskau (the great. sort-Brass), behind whom is the goddess
Hathor of Danéerah, pouring water from a vessel. To the left of this
King Sari I. sppesrs mice before Amman Rs, who is followed by
ﬁfteen dsltiss in three rows of live. On the right side of the pylon,
towarés the lap, is uslmllar boot, banealh which sro repressnmtions
of Ramses III. llak an. On the S. side of 1115 pylon, to the right,
is Amenhotep 11., smiting 3 band of enemies. As this king was
unable to csmylets the inscrigiions on the left side, Sell 1. took
advantags of the vac-ant syncs w cmnmsmoram llia rams. Four
Coloasi orlginslly stood before this pylon. Those to the right have
Llisapgeareli, but those still sxtam to the left are highly intiarasﬁng.
Tho huge yellowish torso immadiswly to the left of the door has
the name of Tamas II. on the girdle; and in an inscription on
its back Tuimes lll. announces that he erected i i the:
Page-203
a: Thebes. KARNAK. 11. Route. 347

42nd year of his reign in honour of his father Tutmes I. The
skill shown in the working of the. sailﬁsione conglomerats used for
the ststue is noteworthy. Pebbles as large as bullels occur in the
stone. yet, this surface has a wondarfull'y' smnoth polish. The other
calossus; which belongs to Amenhotep IL, is made 0f white lime—
stone of a ﬁne grain. The head is still in situ but the face is digs
ﬁguxed. A11 enjoining Stale, with 11 much defaced inscrimion, rev—
cotds that Amenhmep II. led ﬁlm Egyptian army as far as Niniveh.
(in :31st side of Pyloan is an invecation of some length to Amman
from the high—priests Roma and Roi, in the reign of Seti 11. 011
the outside of the E. wall bnbwnen Pylons VIII and Hi and on Py—
lon IX next to the small doorway. are inscriptions by Amnnhotep,
high priest of Thebes in the time of Ramses IX. (Neferkara), in
which he speaks of the restozation cf 3 than ruined building that
had been around by Usertesen I. (12:11 Dyu.}. Close to Pylon VIII
is a small Chapel (Pl. (1)

The next Pylon (171.1) has collapsed, leaving fragments of walls
standing to the extreme right and left, separated by a saddle—shaped
dewessionl From the shatter-311 inscriyiions 'ws learn 111111116113
Horus fonnnad this pylon7 though Ramses ll. afterwards unjustly
ylaced his own name upon it and upon two granite statues no longer
extant. The names of Ramses 1V. (llsk ma) and above it Ramses VI.
(st01- 113k an] are also found, on {he herlzontal band. on elm N, side
of the pylon. King Horns and Ramses VI. are rapresenwd on the
W. side of the connecting wall. The ruins are most easily skirted
on the; W. side, and beyond than: is a spacious Court, boundad on
Size S, by tbs Last Pylon (P1. X1). The wings of this 211ng exiiﬁca.
constructed of Imam sandsionu,’ have callapsad. but Hm central door—
way of granite is still standing Four blocks of granite, on the right
of the doorway and facing the court. are decorated wi {l1 a Palm,
rspresontng wi'l: remarkable vivacity 1g Hams approaching ‘he
3011 with two libationnvessels. An insnriptian within the granite
portal informs us that this king, win) ruled st tbs close of the 18th
Dyn., built the pylon, using for that purpose some hewn stones
bearing the name of Amenhoﬁep 1V {Kiln-sunshan)i ins strange
snn—wnrslxippar whom we met, as'l‘ell al—Amaxnah (p. 23). me this
it has been concluéed that a building erected at Karnak by she
schismatic was destrcyed. soon after his death. In front of the N.
side of the pylon are two headless limestone colossi. Ramses Ii.
ylaced his name upon these as well as upon the pylon; and some
priests of Ammon of the 215! Dyn. have alsn csmmemorated them—
selves upon the lattes. —— 011 the W Wall, uniting Pylons X1 anti
X is s represeniuatinn restored by Horus , of the Sacred Rout
of Ammon, which must hava been naniml in salamn nrocession
through the series of pylons now engaging our attention Thu E
Wa’ l. which bears an inscription to the effect that King Horus con—
querad Pn11t€Ambia), 15 into: mptm’i by a hub ‘ Pl ” ' which
Page-204
148 Route 1 1. KARNAK. East Bank

square yillnrs am used in place of the more usual columns. These:
simple ax'isﬁc farms themselves suggest an early origin for the
eaiﬁce and the inscriptions record that it was built by Amenbotep II
and III A gaﬁlery is adjoineti by a balk with 20 pillars, and that.
again by several apartments arrangmi in ya. wanna: not elsewhsra
found On sewn! of ﬁhe pillars7 whuse unadomed capitals are
striking, the king appears before Amman. It IS not easy to deter-
mine the purpose of this building. It cannot have hem a palace.
Perhaps it contained stables for the sauna animals of the diﬁ‘emm
deitius, a: was tho depositary for the sacriﬁcial gifts plasemad within
the ﬁrst pyion. Pezhaps Ammon’s guart‘n of honour, whivh is free-
quenﬁy mentioned and which had to watch over the temple, was
quartered bare; or it may have been mm: by the priests on duty I‘m:
the «ﬂay as x; temporary mason Various famous pmva as from
regnding it as the acttial abodm either of the “Inga or of the atten-
dsnts on the gods. — To the 8. of Pylon X1 is the base of a Sta‘ue
of King Hams, the lower pan of which dates from Amenhotep III.

Beyond the pylon, which was skirt rather than pm: through, is
the Avcnuc of Sphinx”, bounding the processional route that led to
the 8. buildings. To the E. of the avenue two Chambers, painted
in bright cniours, were excavated by Marietta. They belong to n
templs of Osiris-Ptab, who is ham represented as worshipped by
Tabarka and by .v‘umarntzmbti apym’amly a contampamw king {the
deamani of Assyrian inscriptions}.

The avenue leads to the bempla of Math (sea balow), while it is
cannecmd by a branch with tha sphinxmvenue leading from the
temple of Khunsu to Luxo: (comp. p. 118). In a straight dimctien
the ﬁrst-mentioned avenue is terminated by a Gate {P1, 1-), bum by
the Ptolemies, in the N. side of a girdle-wall enciosing a horse-shes
shaped lake‘ In from: of this lake stead tbs Templo of limb (PL '1‘),
built by Mnenhotep III.y and now so tomplaeely ruined ﬂuid: 19. is
éifﬁcult to datnxmine its original axrangemem. To the right and
left of the 45325 of Ptolemy Philadelphia (which bears a beautiful
hymn to the goddess Mum}, and back without and within tbs 511-1116-
wall were numerous lionuhaaded Figures of Sekkst, many of which
have aireaéy found their way to European museums (9.51. It Tu" n).
A secend gate bears the canouc‘hea of Seti II. and Set-nekht In a
small Apartment on the E. siée of the mmpla is a. ream-1i of & resta-
ration of the temyke by Menmemhat, prirasc of Ammon, in ibis ﬁma
0f Tabwka. To the W. of aha horse—shoe lake are the remains of a
small Temple (1’1. U), built by Ramses 111., who here ream-clad his
victory over the land 0f Tahi and the animals and other rich bcoty
which be thereby obtained.

1?. The Temple of Emma.

Abom 150 paces co the W( of the last pylon (p. i4?) passoci in
our way ﬁowards the 8., {as the beautiful mi} humming ‘Tampla
Page-205
at Thcbm KABNAK, 11, some. 149

ct Khmer: (P1. V), the portal of which we have already seen on our
way from Lnxor to the river-front of the great temple of Ammon.
An avenue of ephinxes, approximately parallel with the aboveumen-
tinned avenue between Pylon XI and the temple of Mnﬂa, learis to
the sienrier Ptolemaic Pylon XII and beyond it w the iemnle of
Khnnsu proper, whieh lies a little farther N. The temple is beauti-
fully proportioned, in many places adorned with ramarkabie care,
and in Various rewrote of great. inter-25c. It was matched by Ram—
ses HI. in honour of Khunw, is. the god who reyrixsmus, so as
week: the youthful Amman in the trim! of Thebes. Eisewhere, it
may here be noted, Khunsu is conceived of almost as the moon-god
(wiih the chiié’s lock cf hair on his temple and the creecenbmoon
on his head), and thus identiﬁed with Thothx'ﬁormos. Just as
Amman is caller! the seal of Ra, so Khunsu is so be regarded as the
spiritual quintessence of the earlier moon—god, and may be named,
like Thom, ‘the reyreeentacive of the spirit, the ratio inferno: of all
things’, As Pu ar Richer or ‘plm-maker’ he guides the dakiharations
of mortals, am} he hammer also the divine physician (Khunm mfcr
hotep, ‘tbe goon. helper”), who considerateiy restores the sick to
health. Cynocephali, sacred t6 Khunsn as well as to Them, were
kept here. ~— Iu the great Harris Papyrus Ramses III. says cf this
temyle: ‘I built a bones in Thebes for thy sen Khunsu, of good harm
stone, of sandstone, black stone, its doors covered with gold, adorned
with eiectrum like the ee‘restial horizon’. In the same document it is
named Pa (bones) Ramses fwk am in Pa Iﬂzunsu with 1364 persons;
am} afterwarés: ‘?er30ns whom he [Ramses 11L) gave :0 Po Khrmsu
in 11:23 Neferhoiep, Her lard of the wide heart, 249’. There thus
appear to have been two diﬂerent tempies erected to Khunsu. The
inscriptions inform us that he had not time to ﬁnish the ‘ch50
cf Khunsu’, but was obligca w ieavo later rulers to ccmyiete the
Perislyis Court and the Pylan. The last. was erected by the priest-
king Pinozem, son or" Piankhi, of the 21st Dyn.; but Alexander 11.
is also commemorated in the doorway to the peristyle court. This
court. itself has on three siées a double row of papyrus-bud columns,
six in each row. From the inscripiiuns we gather that after yor—
tions of this builﬁing were mm by various Ramses of the 20131 133%,
the priest—king Harbor, predecessor and perhaps grandfather ofPino-
gem, contributed to its decoration. Most of what we know fthe
kings of the ﬁrst Dyn. is derived item the inscriptions here.

The «lone connectiun which muaﬁ at that time have exirieni bet-ween
Mia end the Nile valley is proved by a ﬁlm: fauna in the temple of
Khunsu and now preserved in the Bibliochéque knsionale as Paris. Upon
this man of the lam. kings of the 20m Dyn. records that he marriad the
daughter of a eributary prince, made her his queen, and in order to cart:
her younger sister who was possessed by devils (rte. insane} sen: ﬁrst a
ghysieign end then a shrine of'Kh‘ursu io‘Bekptan After the healing gunned

one wnu was experiea nf hm: , me fatner-m-Lew of the Phat-0&1: dcmrned

the name until he was warned in 3 dream to send is back to my!“ i“
its seared. boss.

The yeristyle court is succeeded by a narrow I; '

   
 
 

iding
Page-206
150 Route 1'1. KARNAK. Em Bank

across the entire breadth of the temple anti having its roof supportea
by eight columns in two rows with calyx-capitals. This was at least
adorned, if not built, by Ramses Kill; while the (3003‘ betas the
cartonche 6f Nakhnem‘l‘ The calyxmcapimls am comparatively low,
and {heir edges are) bent out. to a remarkable amen!" Bayond this
hull are the moms of the Sanctuary. Hare, especially in the moms
to the E., are a series of daaply carved inscriptions, scans of which
are of great scientific importance 'ﬁmugh of lilting ganarai interest
Ramses 1V. {ﬂak mi) and Ramses XIII. (ii-cur here, and several
Ptolamaic princes have carved their names. Various Greeks, of
late date, have also left their names in longar or short inscriytions,
placed besida regresentatisns Bof foot—prints (indicating that they
had visitacl the spot as pilgrims), a lmbit illustzated also 31. Philae
and elsewhere {c.g. Lesbcs). Isis and Khunsu (_ besides Thaw)

 

were the gods to whoss shrines pilgrimages were most frequently
made in search of health. It is woxtli noting that the temple of
Khunsu contains the only representation of circumcision yet dis-
covered in Egypt) Not only Khunsu, but alSo the athex gods of She
trial}! to which he belonged waxe worshipyerl in this temple; but}:
Math, called ‘the great’ and the ‘mistxass of Ashru’, and Ammon—
lla, ‘lord of the thxune of bath werlds in E.’l‘l1ebes, rule: of
human, am! king cf all gods’l 01‘ the dedicatiunwmscﬁ aims,
which abound in wearlscme yroiusion on the archizzavas and else-v
where, one, of the time of Ramses XML, will serve as an example:
‘The living good god. (Le. the Pharaoh) raised this building in the
house of his fame: Khunsu, the 10rd of’Ihebas, and built this {ample
of gocui limusim’xe and sandstone in wnkaanshi}! f0: lang (luratiﬂn'.

V. The Small Twyla 0f Apet.

The Tampke of Apet (PL W), Qlicii occupied by Champollion as
a dwelling, lies close to the W. wall of the temple of Khumsua It
is new used as a depository for the smaller monuments found at
Kumak, the best of which are periodically transferrsd to the Bar
tian museum at Gizeh. Diab Timsufa, who lives apposite (a boy
will summon him), opens the temple on request. Among less in-
teresting objects a beautifully axecuted torso of Tutme’: ill. is
Page-207
at Thelma. KAREAK. 11. Route. 151

preserveﬁ. here. The roof of the E ﬁrst Room is 31199011156. by two
Pmlemaio columns. with Hat—hm masks 1111 the abacus To the right
and left of this wide hali sire twa rooms, and behind are thyme
“them. the middle 0116 01' which gives access be the Sanctuary. The
inscriptions 011 the walls owe their origin to the Ptolemies; the
earliest, as the tiedicatlominscription also informe 115,1;0Ptelemy IX.
Euergetes 11.? and 1,0 Cleopatra, his sister 111111 wife. The pregnant
hippopotamus-goddess Ape: was the goddess of births. He: ﬁnely
executed statue of serpentine, found in the ruins of the ancient
city, is now in 111113 11111111811111 «1 Gizeh. ll; dates from the 26th Dy.-
nasty. The insariptinns anti «reyrasentetions refer largely to Osiris,
whose birth was commemoraﬁed liars, and to the gods associated
with him. 011 the outside of the temple-wall and on the wells ad-
joining it are found the names of Ptolemy Animus 3.11 a the 131111311101
Auwsws. A list of 11011133, also '01111d here, is unfortunately much
damaged.

13301111510110 Mamuiur, only to be undertaken when ‘here is abun-
dance of Lime; 4 5 1115.313 umasary. The site is reamed after 1‘]: 1112‘s
rnpid riding, We proceed‘ ﬁrst to ”er epllinx Avenue of K311111514 where
the roar} diverges to the right, along a huge embankment. 11 then turns
11) the left and 111113 measly alung me edge a! ditches, frequenlezi, eepeeielly
in December, by wild {cw}

The Turpin cf Kedzmﬁu, at one time a large and beautiful edi..ce.' 15
new so completely mined than 8'1 an its ground-plea cannot be traced.Tl1e
village, a. kiuu ol auburb of Thebes. was called Teman 3111i lav in the N.
nf the temple. 350111.11 01’ Thebes wee the god chieﬂy worshipped here. “nut
Bnio (113:5) 211-1 Apet were also xevereﬁ. ’lhe erection of this temple dates
fmm She time of _Amenhotep IL, of the 1812) Dynne-‘y. His 11111115 secure
P11 the large gran He 111121119 which 11- a still standing and which prohah‘y
formed part of the Sanctuary. Numerous blocks of granite lie sceztered
around. 1116 nauciuary was adjoined by a large ediﬁce. lying appmxi-
widely from E to W. 311111-11 further 10 the W was .1 P'_ on facing the
river, but new destroyed leaving nol‘ning but a heap of blocks of semi-
atone Various fragmentary inscriprions in a. good style inform L5 that
it wz: a built by “79.11 I. and Ramses 11.0111131- the Ptolemies 1111 addition
was made 10 J16 earlier temple, melmiing the (Mom: adc, which is BGW
the most cons \mus am} mos: interesting feature of he rains. Five
celumna .1111 sliil standing Fun: of 111080, 1111 which still radix the stone
architrave, appear to haw hmmried 11 nnw ﬁestroyeﬂ peristyle 001er and
no hﬁYE formed the first row of eelumns in a hypostyle hall which cannot
have existed before the time of the Ptolemies. The Other .. .umn if} the
only relic (sf the ascend row Both *his and tlm two hurlxcelu-ns (:0 the
left} in the ﬁrst raw appear to belong :0 the 13111 Dyn.g the two latter
certainly 1’1id, for their sculptured sharia and capitals clearly imllcaie that
the arlixiic. idea. which dimmed lheir form aliil retained a vigorous
freshness at the time 91’ their erection. 0n the ether hand the 1315 ela-
borale plasaic decoralinn of the calyx-capitals of the (111191 two columns
11mm to the right, the curious closing eftlieinterculumniutiens lxymeans
of barrier-like walls, half as high as the e'sztaé and crewneé with a concave
cornice, and the lreetmem of the dnors, whose absem covering was merely
indicated (:1: boih eidua b erectiaus wiﬂl concave cor-niece, would in ﬁlmin-
selves be pmofe (has the uilding was nnt erecie-i before the epoch 01' the
Psalmiee, even if the inscripiione did not contain the same informwion
Been have bull! their nests in many cf the deep hieroglyphic: which com-
pass the luau-113110115, but we can still disﬁngm'ah the names of Ptolemy 1X.
Eaergales 11., aha eagle: and de strayer of Thebes, and those of Lathyrue
Page-208
152 Raucej 12. THERE‘S. West Bank.“

and Anleﬁee. Antonin“ Pius bestowed some attemion on ﬁlm desorption
oi this ediﬁce, the pissuresque remains of which show the: even in. the Age
of the Ptolemlea the practice of using ancient culumne In: new buildings
was well nnéerstocd, a ﬁreﬂies which became very commcn under the
Arabs. The use of other ancient frag-meme of buildings (especially he“
blocks of stuns) was frequent even in very early limes.

As we return. we may once mare walk lbruugh iba (ample ofKarnuk.
s digrassien which will net edé more than ‘12 hr. to the dsy‘s expedition
is she traveller have made an early 5933:, he may lunch in the 3:130:3er
lull of Kamak, under the shadow of (be lax-gas: columns in the world,
where the destroyers a! ﬁha temple and previous travellers have gravid-e11
eeaia in lbs sbaye of blocks of Mona.

 

B. THE WEST BANK AT THEEES.

Pusangura by the tlnree-wasks‘ Muriel-simmers devule the (at and 3rd
(Cook) or 211:1 ani 3m (Gaze) tiny of lheir stay at Thebes to the West
Bank; those by me four—week‘s steamers the 2nd. and All: (Cook) or 3rd
anal Ml: (Gaze) day; arranginn in each. cause to e anal the ﬁrst day in a.
visit :0 the eepulcbral lemple 0;. Bell 1. 3115 abs Ten: 5 0f the Kings (ER 19,
M3}, and the second in visiting the Ramseseum, Sbék ‘Abd el-E'iusm-Jb1
Dér nl-Madinnh and )imlinul. Hahn (RE. 13-18), A mﬁ‘ursnt nx-ran went
is reoommenéeé on p. 102, for a three day‘s stay M Thebes, Mm: ing to
which the ﬁnal (la ‘5 vial! to the W. benk is «leveled :0 Elle Colossi of
Mamnon, Kedlnet . abu, Dér el—Eedineh. Shékh ‘Abd el-lgnrnah (BB. 12—
18). and the next day to the sepnlﬁnl temple of Suﬁ L and aha T011213:
of the Kings (BR. 19 20). If ﬁve days are spam at Thebes, 'lhree sbeuli
be devoted to ﬁlm W. bank, the ﬁrst being occupied by “16 Colossl of
Riemann. lha “ample of Hedinat Hahn, and D6: el‘Hedineh (RR, ”1 15,
1'1)? 1he second by the Rmeseeum, the tombs of Sbékh 'Abéel-gurnhh,
the temple ()l‘ Bér el-bnbri, e30. (ER. 13, 18., 2i}. and the third by Qhe
Temple of Sell 1. anti the 'I‘a-bs of the Kings (RE. 19‘ ‘20), will; which
Cook‘s and 8325‘s tourists begin.

The ensuing descriplion follows the distribution of time suggealerl on
p, 102 for a three day-‘9 visit 10 Thebes.

The fellowing points may be visited in a single (lay (the 2nd of our
stay in Thebes), though no: wizhouc considerable fatigue: l. ”Colossl of
Memnon; 2. 'Eemaeeeum; 3. Tombs of Kurnel Emmi; 4, 'Madlnel Hahn;
5. Tembs 0f the Queens and D5: elaMedineb; 5. Tombs of Shéklx ‘Abrl
el-Kurnab. A litzle time may be saved by beginnin at me Bamasseum,
and thence prom ing to the Colossi or Hemnon, Ma fuel Hahn, 816.; but
it is belt/er to vial: the Coloesi ﬁrst. for they are ml no time so impreselve
as when seen ln me earl morning.

An early star: shuul be made. Guides. donkew1 elm, 558 p. 163. If
lhc dhahabiyah has been anchored at Luxcr and net beside the W. bank
in. ion, it will be necessar to cross in a boat to me lslsnﬁ o§posile
Lnxur. Donkeys an: ususlly mun! bars, but a lax-go party in recommendml
in order ihem the night before, The island, which is dotted with bushes
and at pieces well-cultivated, is messed in sbons 1C1 111811., and ﬁll-5 don-
keys then ford a shallow arm of the river, I! lhe river is high, however,
lravellers must row mnnd me islané. We pass the village. pleasantly
shadeé. by bees, and cross a very frailbrldga overswaﬁer-course tiesoend—
ing to the Kile. 0n the bank is a. handsome farm. -— A Ferry G]: plulxe}
also cross» {rum Lnxor and lnnde its pusengera {slime higher u , n can»
veniencc if they are bound for she temple of Elm-nah and the ' ombs of
the Kings.

We have already seen that the streets of Thebes with the palaces
and the dwellings of ehe citizens lay neu- the great temple of Anna

man, on the E. bank, between the river and the Arabian manna
Page-209

Page-210

Page-211
Uolossi of Menu-ion. THERE‘S. 12. Route. 153

talus. 0n the Want Bank lay the Necropeli: or City of the Dead,
connected with which were a. large number of temples. Thaw latter
are callsd Magma/mm, because they were datiicated to the memory
of the lives and duds of ths great Pharaohs, and because they were
regarliexi as the alxoass of the dead mommhs, and sacriﬁces wet-3
altered within chart; to the royal runners and to the guds, to Wham
the kings owed their might. Built on the verge of lhe necropolis,
they stood in close rslarion to the worship of the dead. Just as
suientiﬂs institutions also. wars maintained in connection with the
Scrapers adjnining the cemeteries of Memphis and. Alexandria) so
the temples here wars adjolnetl by various other establishments.
These included libraries, schools, dwellings for the priests, medical
colleges, summing-houses, stables and pastures for $315 sacred
animals, anti loﬁglngs for pilgrims, while mm: ﬁlm sacred panda and
groves were entire streets, comaining not only barracks fur the
temple-guards and dwellings for the ecclesiastical and launofflcialsa
but also shops and housss of private citizens who carried on trade
in the various articlas used at burials or brought as eﬂeﬁngs to the
éhccased. The guild of Kolcllytes or embalmers is frequavrtly msnm
ticned (especially at a. late data) as a numerous and by no means
harmonious society. Public works of various kinds are mentioned
in ﬁlm dramatic and Greek commercial contracts which have been
found hare am} are listed from this place. Among: ill-ass :3. canal? a
sacred lake, 3 large stress; eta. are named. There were many otlmr
lemples besides those Whose wins are now traceable, and round
such were grouped houses of various kinds, so that Straho and other
Gresk writers wars justiﬂad in aescrihing Thahes as sporallically
inhabited. The lastvhamed reliable geographer writes: ‘Thehes is
now sporadically inhabited. Part of it lies in Arabia (E. bank of
tha Nile], including the City proper, and part on ﬁle oyposita bank,
where the Mammnium is situated" Stubs3 like all his country-
man3 was especially attracted by the arr—(walled Colaui of Memmm,
which he considered as repaying in themselves the rrouble of the
journey is Thebes.

12. The Colossi of Eamon.

T115 ”Coleus of K512111011, which are visible from a great di-
stance, 3m reached. on donkey—back in 20-2-5 min, after crossing
the W. arm M the Nile. The route, which lauds ihmugh well-
cultivated lands, cannot be mistaken, for the goal is in View all the
way. These two colossal statues have suﬁsred severely from the
hand of time and have lost their artistic value, but they still
exert all their old attraction in virtue} of the innumerable asscci. w
lions that cling to them. Thay are surpassad in size and in beauty
of material only by the shattereé. colossus in the Bamesseum. The
two immenss ﬁgures and the cubical thrones on wh‘ shay re
Page-212
154 Ram: 12. TEEBES. Wesé Bank:

seated are unwed out of a pebbiy and quantum sendstentaueon-
glomemﬁa, of a. yellowisilvbmwn colon: am} very difﬁcult to work.

The S. Colossus is in better preservation than the N. mm, but
there is little diﬁemnce between them in point of size. The tlirnen-
siens of the former, in which the original form is more easily seen,
are as follows: height of the ﬁgure, 5‘). ft, holght of the pedestal en
which the feet. xess, 15 m, height of the entire monument, 64 is.
But when the ﬁgure was adorned with. the long-since vanished
crown, the original height may have reached 69 ft. The legs from
the sole to the knee measure 191/2 It, anti each foot is ﬁll/g ft;
long. The breadth of the shimmers. is 193,"; ft; ﬁne middle ﬁnger
on one hand is 45’; it. long; and the arm from the tip of the
ﬁnger to the elbow measures 151/2 it, The entire colossus, includ—

ing the throne and perinatal, weighs 117:} tonal
Both statues few ESME and atnnri parallel to the course. of the Nile“,
though they are no longer perpendicular as one inclines a. lime towards
the other and both are canted slightly ﬁeckwnrdn. The S. colossus is a
liétle in from of the N. one, from which it is 2213mm distant. Benz an;
seamed with cracks, and such large fragmema have fallen from them, that
one could imagine 21ml. an aliempl has been male to destroy them by ﬁre.
The Arabs can the N. (mlussxm Team, the 8. <me Shawna, and both in,
gather Summit, or ‘the greetings‘u?
W’hen the File is 3! its highest, 1 waters reach me soles of the feel.
of the cclossi and sometimeu the uppu urface of the pedesﬁal on which
they real. As this pedestal is 13 fl. high and as the statues must have
been beyond the reach of innndaﬁone in the time at the Pharaohs, Lepaiui
in cox-met. in assuming frnm his observations of the nilameiex- at Samuel:
(p. 3123shat the bed of the. Nile 3‘: that point must have linen no ‘ ‘cmbly
1-3.1 ed within Blister-ital times. He estimates the total rise at 251:. In
winsex, however, the traveller reaches the statues dry-shun. These colonai
were an: always solitary monuments, remote from all other buildings, 9:
the coneruy they originally steed on either side of a. gigantic Pylon, which
ruse behind ihé-Jn and formed the entrance to a Henmom‘um, of which ex‘
tensive relies still remain, though im- ihe must gnu-b covered with min-ﬁn
This sample, now completely annihilnted, was founded bi Amennoiep 211;,
who is represented by me cola-eel. Eelther this monarc nor his amines
have any connection whatever with the (ix-ask Memnon, who was aha son
of E0; {the dawn) and Tithenue. became one at :he allies of Prism. snﬂ
alew Aniilcehus, the brave eon ef Nestor, for which he was himself slain
by Achilles. Homer mentions this Riemnun iwice in the Gdynsey:
“For he thought in his mind of the liken“; of the unhieAntiinnlmn‘
‘Wlmm the lerdly son of like brightening dawn slew‘.

And 9? Neepmlemun, the sen of Achilles, it is said: I
We one handsome:- than he have I scan, next in ﬁlm gndlike ymm'.

This Memnun wns an Asiatic hero, who is safe also 20 have built lhe
fortresses of Snsa ind Ecru-ataxia. When the Greeks became mailman will:
the Nile valley end its manna-acme, they imagined that: they hurl fuund
sumptuous buildings of (he Homeric hero in. the commemorative manu-
meme named ‘mennu‘ by 9119 Egyptians Q“ 55). The cnloasi before u:
were also called ‘mennn‘ by the inhabitanis of Thebes. and men came to
in: described by the Eellznes as staﬁncs ofﬂcmnon, theugh the Egyptians
even to a late period knew that they represented Amenlnoiep 11L, 3 king
of the 13th Dynasly. Pausnnias was informed of this incl, bud Greek in—
scriptions on thus legs of the statues nlso mention it, When it aﬁerwurda

 
 

   

Jr The: at least is the yresenz name, Lepsiua states that they were
namedlin his time ismmmdl, u:- ihe ‘idnls‘, which new!» more in keeping
with Arab cenmpziensl
Page-213
Coloui 0f Mmmwm THEBEB. 12, Roam 155

heme knmmn mm: the bi, colossus emitted a musical mate as sunrise, s
new and beam myih mesa among the Greeks when were always ready
to invent a. leg in svder to explain in fact. Tim hsra of this myth was
a Hemnon. lxsiiing from Ethiopia, who fell at Troy Appearing as a stone
image st Thebes, he meshed his mother Ens with a» sweet and plaintive
note when she appenreﬁ at dawn. The godéesa heard the sound, and the
morning dews are the tears which she shed upon her balcved child.

The enormous size of me oolossi snd the legends that cluutnmd round
tham, renderei them so attractive to the Greeks and Romans. that Tacitus
mentions them among the chief marvels (marzipan; miracula} of Egypt;
auﬁ under the 30mm empire travellers to the Nile consider-eat that the
object of their journey was attained when they had seen the pyramids
and heard ms musical nose of Batman.

The Novthcm Colossus is the. famous Vocal Status at 1191113031.
This is distinctiy indicated by the effusions of early tourists,
varying both in length and excellence, which are instr’bed on the
legs. The name is compared of We parts“ The lower and older
part consists 0f 3. sizigie bleak of sawdstorieuconglemerste, and
reaches w the miiiiiie of the arm resting (in 17:10 141109 and, behind,
to above tlm girdle, The EHPPBI part was broken Mi by m earth—
quake in {-21% gas}: .5? 13.0,, and was not restored until the reigﬁ cf
Septimlus Severus, many years later. The restoration was not vary
happily managed, for instead of being made out of is single block,
the body and head were built up of thirteen blocks of ccmman
sandstone in ﬁve courses. The care with which the lower partﬁmw
much injureﬂ) was exesuﬁed 0581's a great contrast is the crudexmss
of this newer part. To the right and left and between the legs stand
female statues kmnl'ng against the throne, representing the mother
anti wife of Amenhotep UL, MM em 14a and TN, 011 each side 0!
the seat twe- Niie~gods were represenieé in sunk relief, holding
papyrus plants wound ward the symbol of the union of Ugycr and

 

  

Lower Egypt 3]! The inscrigticns on the S. colossus enable us to

supply wha‘: is 12836 bxahe‘n off; but these, and the. hieroglyphics an
the hack of the statue, contain nothing ”beyond the high-sounding
titles of Amsnhetep 111. and 1M information that he erected these
palatial huihilngs and colossal statues of sandstone: in honour of
his father Amman. The. king, whom we have eisewhera faund men—
tioned as a great warriohprincc, is also named it destroyer of for-
eign peoples, s Hams (who conquered the enemies of his father),
and the beiuved sf Ammms.

After the breaking of ihs colossus by the earthquake “52713.0,
attention began to be «lirected to the musicaiphwomenon connected
with it. Sizebu say : ”02‘ two gigantic monolithic statues situated
close to each other, we is entire, while the upper portiims 9f the
other, from the mains upwards, are said to ham Man thrown down
by an euthanasia: is is puyulsrly believeli that a wand, as Waugh
caused by a ge i‘e blow, is heard once a day yrnceeding from the
remaining porsi l on the HilfDili! and pedestal. I myself, whim I
was on the split slang wii‘aAelius Genus and numerous mhvrf M9
Page-214
156 Ram: 12. TEEBES. Wm Bank:

ana soldiersihoard the sound about the; ﬁrst hour; but I was nimble
to decide whether it proceeded from the base or from the status, or
indeed whether it was dolihentely produced by one of those stand—
ing round. the yedostal. For as I do not know the cause, anything
apyears to me much more credible than that the sound issued from
the stone thus placed”. Doubts as to the genuinenesa of the phew
nomenon ceased soon after Strabo’s time, and while that famous
geographer mentions only an inert-inmate soundﬁlaérfaoc}, Pausmlas
speaks of a mueioal note and Juvenal reform to the ‘xesoumco from
the magic strings of the shattawed Memnon’. By later observers the
stain is compared to that of a stroke upon metal, or even of a tram—
pet-blast And of human voices singing. The sound was heard only at
or soon after sunrise, though by no means invariably thou; and some
of the most distinguished visitors were disappointed of heating it.
Among these was Septimius Severus, who caused the restoration of
the upper portions, perhaps with e View to pmpitiate the angry god.
Thereafter tho phenomenon ceaseri, and tin: colossus, abhonexi by
the Christians as a pagan illol, fell rapidly lnto oblivion as tllimow
religion spread.

Leuonne has proved that the resonance of the stone is on no mount
to be explained as a mere priestly trick, 3116 in the opinion of eminent
physicists, it is ponectly possibls that a. hard resonant stone, hated by
the warm sunlig 5 suddenly following upon the cold nights in Egypt.
might emit a sound in the early morning. A ii-ilar phenomenon has
been obsorveﬁ elsewhere, as by Professor Elmrs under the pox-xihyry
cliffs of the Sinai mount-aim, Marl by the nuance of the French Exp»
dilion near the granilesancluary at» Kuumk mi in the granite quarries
of Asauﬁn (Syene). An English traveller near the Maladetta in the Pyre-
nees heard a sound issuing from the rocks, not unlike the nolu of an
Aeolian harp, and the name given to it by the natives, ‘the mitina of the
xiaxxxned" PIECE”! to {move that. it was of frequent if not. regular oeuur-
tense. The ‘muaic‘s‘wnea' of the Orinoco are well-known, In the. Gov:
valley, to the S. of Lake Nyassa Livingstone observed the thunderous
sound of splittiag stones, ascribed by the natives to the agency uflulxeai
or evil spi ' And tho German consul, Drl Wetzstein, reports similar
phenomena in the volcanic region discovezed by him to the E. of Da-
mascus. Possibly the extensive broken and sloping sufﬁce of the color
sun; wet with the dews of «sax-1y morning, woes exposed unusualiv directly
to the rays of the rising sun‘ and the famous sound may have Ewen pro‘
duced by a. current of air, generated by this sudden change of lemperature,
passing over the rough and pabbly surface In that was the phenomenon
would naturally sense when the upper par: of the ﬁgure was replaced.

The numerous Greek anti Latin inscriptions, in prose and verse, in—
scribed ugmn the legs of the ﬂgum by travellers under the Roman empire,
are peculiarly interestmg. These are more numerous on the left that on
the right leg, and. none are beyond the reach of a man standing as the
foul. of the statue The earliest were cnrvod in the reign of Nero. the
latest in lhoao of Se timing Sovcrus and Carsoalli. and the moat numer—
ous H?) in that of aériau. Unly one Egyptian (who is responsible for
a short demotic inscriplion) is fuumi among these ucribblura, who show
both more rowel-emu: for antiquity and more wit than their modern repreaem
tativea, At the same time it must be acknowledged the: the writings on the
colossus of Eemuen are not without ueienline value. They were for the
guest purl. the wan-l: of men of some eminence, including 8 governors of Egypt.
rl epistmteges of the Thobald, 2 procuralors. etc. Many, though not Ill are
dateﬁ. New]; all 0'! them sﬂord proof that only the N l' ittecl the
Page-215
cozmiomemon. mama's. 12.1mm. 357

(men: wand. The oldest inscription ﬂats: from the lit}: year of Nero‘s
reign. w Many of the great ofﬁcials wlw visited the marvel: of Timber: were
accompanied by their wivas. Tlms Luc" Junlus Calvlnas and his wlfa
Miniein Rnstlc&,'in the 4th year of Vesgaasma, heard the phenomenon at the
uncouﬁ hour, though most other visitors heard it at the morning-hour,
tie. at or soon after sunrise. The 00103st was fmquently xiumb? in whirl:
cage the visitor usually wﬁteé until a more favoumble occasion litany
were so struck with the phenomenon that they were no: mutant till the}:
had. has-ml it three or four times. Kathi”, whojeuraeyed through Eg gt.
in 130 All, spent several days here along with his wife Sabina lug a
large retinue. In his reign a perfect {load of verses spreaﬂ over the legs
of the columns, mum of them by the vain court-puzzle” Balln‘lta, the da—
saenslant of a noble house, as she is careful to manﬁinn. 0:15 of her
allusions (on the left leg) relaseg in 16 hexmetars. that Eemnon greeted
Harlan, as well as he could (as; Euvaw’vl when be perceived the emperor
before sunrise. but that a clcsrer note, Ilka that caused by a. blew on an
instrument of mapper, was emitted at the settond hour. and that even I
third ammd was heard. Hadrian greeted Eemmm as often, and all ﬁlm
world could see. how dear the emperor was to tha glut
‘Balbilla, by an inward impulse stirred‘
‘33.; written all aha saw and all a‘ne heart?!

By far the heat verses are those on tha from at the pedesssl by .4:-
Elepa‘odotw, whn calls him elf imperial procuratnr and poet. They any
be translated as fellcw

‘Sea-bam Thistle, learn that Manson suffered never pangs of dying‘.

‘Stilli whereLibyan mountains rise, Bounds the vcice of his loud urying‘ -

‘Wonntaina whisk the. Nile‘strem, halving$ pan-t5 from Thelma, the bun!
tired-gated? -

‘Wlxeu he glows, through mya maternal with warm light illuminated“.

“But my son who, never-satad‘ dreadful battle still was aegklng‘,

‘Dumb in Troy and Thessaly, rests now. never speaking‘.

0:: the rlghz leg of the colossus is i curious ‘ﬂomerlc‘ poem, inscribeﬁ
by a camin Ania, and maria up of four lime; from the Iliad and Ody)»
mays pieceti together by the peat so as to express hid meaning:

‘Alss, a, mighty wonder I there behold with male eyea'
(u. xiii, 99)
”Truly a gcd is here, a nnble inhabitant of heaven?
(0a. xix, lo)
‘Loud 1m nines his voice, and stays the mammal] multitudah
(Oil xxiv, 530:-
‘Never could a mortal man accomplish such a thing as this‘.
(06. xvi, 196).

The ruins in the neighbourhood of t‘zm colossi are unimportant.
About 8 min. beyond them is another Slam: of gum! siza, now,
however, almost completely covered by arable land. Farther to the
NW. are ‘1er numexous smaller statues. The ruined Ammophium,
at the gates of Which the wove-mentioned statues stood, has left an
important memm’lal in the shag"; of a canspicuons colossal Sand-
stone Stale, erecterl by Amenlnotep III. It now has its broadest,
surface uppermost, and is covered with hieraglyphlcs m the grand
style, which, with the reyresentations, mt‘er t0 the dedication of the
temple. In tho mlmdsd pediment the Pharaoh appears recaiving
the symbol of life from Ammon en the right, and from 30113110512219
on the left; above are the winged sun-aim and the name of Amen-
hotep III. Behind the Pharaoh in each case is his consoxt Tli;
mlomed With tho feather-exam. The ﬁrst line of the inscription
contains this pumpous titles of the king; Hm second begi as f9 1 :
Page-216
158 Baute 13. THEEES. was Bank:

‘He tweaks : come to me Ammon Ra, lord of the throne of the woﬁd
of E. Thebes. Look upon thy dwelling, which has been prepared
for thee in the excellent site of Thebes, whose beauty is united with
the region of the ﬂead’. The inscriptien $5.; an; Mammal in the style
of a. hymn, extolling what lmi been dom‘w For i. 9 tramway and ex-
pressing the god’s apyroval of the work that was haze dedicated to
himi — In the neighbourhood (if this stale Ha numerous bloc-k5
0f stane and architectural fragments, which boiongaa m the rich
templn 0r Amenhmep mentioned in the iizucxigzimi‘ There is m)
possibility ai reaonstmcting the. greunéwplm of this building, and
ﬁlm half—buried aphinx—colxmuw and broken sta'mea present little
interest. --- Still farther to the N.W., at the foot of the Libyan
mmmmilm$ two fragments of an ancient brickblxiltiing, known as
K671: el—Ijégﬂn, project like 11qu horns from the greumi, and at a
distance may easily be taken for the colessi of Mamnon.

 

13. The Rameumum.

The “Ramasamm, better known as the Kgmzmim cal? Ramsesﬂ.,
iiés about 1," hr, to the N.N.E. of KGB; ﬁl—Eégﬂn. The mute skirts
the fertile land, and the min soon appears wnspimausiy an our
light, as we look towaxds the Libyan nmuntains. WE pass a small
canal with a watetmwheel worked by a kmﬂ‘aloa whim waters the
well—cuiliwlzarl ﬁelds near the- RamsesQ um, as well as a small grove
of gum; and tamarisk—trees to the E. of it. Whether it is approached
from the N. or from the 8., the anesseum presents a most yiczuresque
appmranca. As almost all the side—walla have l'allm, it is possible
to obtain a mmprehansivc View of the walluproportionad arrange-
ment of this beautiful tompla and to gmsp its general architectural
idea. Though time has destroyed much, it is still possible to realize
the form of its main porﬁons.—So far at; the Pvt/«770M of the Barnes—
seurzi is cancemaa, it, may be asserted with absolute certainty that
it was dedicated to the worship of the manes of Kansas 11“ and
stood in tha same rulaticn to the tomb of that 522mm, as the chapels
at the: entrance of the rock—tombs of weal: y grimy: citizens to the
anijoining mummynshafts {Vol 1., p 170}. TM clearly indicated by
the position of the monument, by the woe/assign with images of an"
cestors at the festival {if the staircase, m: t” , Ni part of the W. side
of the new ml pylony by the list of the 5:: A .mrauh, and by
the ceiling-wwinga in the last rooms of" ﬂux Mmmc—ninnh Finally
several inscriptions inform us that the liamesseum resamblmi the
temple which Ramses the Great vowed in gratitude for his rescue

out of this hands of the Khata who had surrounded him (9. 151).

The question inn been much discussed Whether the ancsaeum i: to 11%
identified with ilm Tomb 0/ Oxym'mdyas, minutely deacﬁ'bad by Bloéoruu.
The afﬁx-maths View hm! harm nioully advocated by Jaimie tin-Si Iiavllliors in
the impart of the French Expedition, and. is new gaunt-ally Moptcd in alpha
of Latrcnne‘s protest. It is true that while many points in. Diudorus‘a
descriptlan tally with the Ramouemnm (129.9113 0010353319 ting; shines, the
Page-217
‘85539. QB$99
Q‘QSG OOGGQ

HEESSEZEQ

{RA

me ‘ Tm”. Lcip-ng_

 

 

,2n n :2: WV )3
Page-218

Page-219
Rumssmm. THERES. 13. Bowie. 159

astronomical representations etc), others seem to apply much more closely
to the tomplo at Modinut Hahn. built by Ramses II. who bore the: name
marinara meramou (Osymanéyas) as well as Ramses 11L Among these
intim- puints are the lion-hunt on the N. side of the temple, the treasury,
tho nova-ed iimha. and fox-hops also the temple-library 11;). 167). Poaaihly
the explanation is that: iiodorns wrote his dasoription from memory after
leaving Thebes and mingleé features of both temples in his account.

The traveller will he waisted to form a judgment on the quastion
for himself by the following main points from the description by Diode.
ms. ‘At the entrance is a pylon of coloured stone (probably granite is
intended! though erroneousiy), 2 plethra long (202 ft.) and 45 ells high.
Then follow; a. square puristyle; with aids; measuring 5 piethn (404 ft].
The roof is supported, not by columns, but by 16 ﬁgures nfliving beings,
each carved. in an uthna style out 05‘ a. Silvie stone. The entire roof
is 2 orgyin {til/2 ft.) broad. and is format! a? solid stone, decorated with
stars on a blaze gonna. Beyond the peristyle are another entrance and
a pylon, differing from the ﬁrst only in having Various ﬁgures camel!
upon it. Basilio the entrance are 3 monolithic ﬁgures of the Hamnun of
Syene (or. according to a better reading “of stone from Syene‘). One of
theae, a sitting ﬁgure, exoeeéa in size all other statue: in Egypt; 1! its
foot (footatool) it mount-m more than ”1 Ellis. The mum-s, to the right
and left res actively of the knees of {his status, rzprcscnt the sister on
mother, an are smaller than the ﬁrst. This work is not only noteworthy
for iii! sizo, hut destinies admiration also for ltu artistic beauty. 1?. is
also romarkuble for the character of tho stone, in which neithor a crack
no: a ﬂaw is to be seen in spite of its unusual size. — This prion is
succeeﬁed by a peristyle court which seems even ml .e worthy a .exnark
than the prcoading‘ It. contains various soulpturas carved in the stoma,
representing the wars carried on by him (ﬁle. the king) against the Bath
trians, who had revolted agr’nst him‘. Diodorus farther informs us that
the army onnsistetl of 400.5 )ftmt soldiorn and 20,000 cavalry. in {our
divisions commanded by the king‘s sons. 0:; the. ﬁrst; wait the king was
repmnteﬁ stoxming a. fortress surrounded by a river, and hurling himself
against the enemy, along with a fierce, list: which accompanied him in
battle . . “in front of the last wall wet-e two monolithic sitting otatuas.
27 ellai height. and beside these were three exits from the peristyle, minim.-
ing to a by oityie, which had the form of an odeum [manic—mom), and was
2 plethm 2 ft.) long on each side“, A cording to Diodnrna this builxiing
aim possessed a library, The last p s of the temple anri its upper story
are too completely mineei to ba satisfactorily compared with the report
of the Sicilian: geographer.

We on: table to recognize the ﬁrst pylon. the caryatidcs in the second
peristyle court, the largest eoloasna in Egypt, the hattle-sonlptmes with
the lion ami the fortress ant-rounded by water, the hyyostyle (”lawn1 and
trace): of the library. Diodoxns «ieacxibes them in tolerably correct ortier,
but as vaguely as hasty travellers usually io who are unable to take
notes on the spot‘

We enter the temple by the most Easterly of the three exunt
Pylom. This was originally 220 ft, broad, but its ruined exterior
is now mow like a quarry than a building. Many :eprosontazions
are still recognizable, though much defaced, on the broad surface
of its W. Side, next the ﬁrst court. Beginning our inspection with
the N. Wing (PL 3), to tho extreme left CHE.) of the beholder, we
ﬁmtnctlce the slander repxosentations ofpinnacled Asiatic fortresses,
in six rows, the two highost of which have been dottxoyod. Fourtean
of the original eighteen are still recognizable, each with an in-
scriytion containing its name, and in some cases also the year in
which it was taken by Ramses H. The isolated inscription at the

top, to the left1 is translated by Burton, Chamgolllon, ch
Page-220
£60 1mm 13. THEBES. Wm Bank:

as follows: ‘The fortress1 captured by Ills Majesty in the 83h year;
Shanna. {its name)". Lepsius suggests a diﬁerenr translation. Shanna
is perhaps Salem (or possibly 26Avgm = Hiarosolyma?), The in—
scription referring to the amend fortress from the our) in the third
row to the right, reads: ‘Fortress captured by His Majesty in the
land of the Amﬁur; Tapur its name‘. The mention of Anim- and
the names cf the other fortresses seam to refer 'l‘apnr to Palsstlno
(a fortress on Mount Tabor), in spite of the natural tamptation to
connect Tapur with the ancient name of the Tapurs, a people
dwelling in the Msrgiana between Bach-la and Hyrcania, and to
recall Diodorus’s statement that the warlike represenraﬁons on the
tomb of Osymanayar rrzl‘erred to the camyaigns of the builder against
the Bactrians. Between the: fortresses Egyptian youths appear
leading the captured Asiatic princes, most of whom are chained by
tbs neck, though some or them have their hands ﬂea togetlrsr
above their heads. The conquerors aceelerate the stays a! tlmir
unhappy victims with staves, and in the secoml row from tha foot,
3 young efﬂcer is shown plucking the bearé of an aged Asiatic.
Farther to the right, and reaching to the fallen and more or less
severely injured summit of the pylon, are sums very varied military
raprnsenlatluns, same of which are unfortunately mural; defaced.
T0 the right is a realistic battle-scent The Egyptian chariots have
overwhelmed those of the Aslatlcs ; and below aypsar fresh regiments
of Egyptian infantry, marching in step. Each soldier is armed
with s. lance, a short or curved sword, and a larga shlsla‘l, Barbra
every faur soldiers is a nonacommissionenl ofﬁcer will: a staff. Th5
command to pitch the camp has already been given, and below and
to the left of the combatants are nan and animals enjoying their well—
earned rest, Weapons and booty lie in heaps; snidlers are drinking
from leathnr—bottles; sud otluars are rendering tlm horses and asses.
The war-chariots are drawn up in two long lines, ancl the veterinary
surgeon is operating with a polnted instrument on the hoof of an
ass. The camnwpolice are using their stavss, not in jest merely,
for beside a man drinking from a winn~skin are soma drnuken and
royststing soldiers. Immediately above the horizontal surface,
whencs tha broken part 9f the pylen rises in steps, we see the wan--
nurses besida lira char-lots, and the recumbent ﬁghting—lion of the
Pharxolx gnawing the royal tent Tim chariots approach in 30ml
ortlsr like the infantry; in the lowest row the wheels pass over
slaughwred enemies. The ﬁve extant sews of chemists excellently
illustrate the passage in Exodus xiv, 7: ‘And he took six hundred
chariots, and all the chariots of Egyglt, anti captains over over-y one
at them’.

The reyraseumﬁons an the S. Hair oflhe W. aide (PL lb"; of the
ﬁrst pylon, also representing seen-rs from the war with ﬁlm Rhea»,
are even more realistic. {thmr similar scenes from the Rhett
campaign are m be sesn on the pylon at Luxor, pu‘lﬂ mil in the
Page-221
Ramseum. TEEBES. 13. Route. 161

temple elf Abu—Simluel, 39. 335.) To the left is the sioxming of Kaiesh,
a fortress on ﬁlm Glimmer;s probably situaimi on an island new ﬁlms
{Emesn}, Name? the centre, the king hurrias ta the ﬁghts with
handled how. Above the rearing and spiﬁied horses in his chariot
are the words: “The most excellent horse of his majesty Miamnn
from the sm’ble of Ramses 11., the beloved of Ammon’. in tha inc
scxiptilm within the bent how the Pharaoh in named the balaved of
Mencu, god of war. The royal leadex overwhelms his fees with his
impetnous attack and hurls them with their 1102553 and chariots
into the stream. Same of the Egyptians are put to ﬂight, and a
legion 9f archzrs lumen in chums to the aid 0? the Phanwh. Among
the slain are various noble Aramaie warxiors consﬂlerad wmthy of
being specially mentioned, for their names are inscribed aheva
them. Una of chase was Klu'rapasor, historiographez 0f the Khsta
wince, whom dzad body is represanmd beside; the: hind legs of the
king's horses, betwesu two lines of hiemglyphics. A short iinina
inscription in from. of the elaborately decorated heads of the king’s
horses {the bridle is surmounted with lion’s heads and feathers)
explains the exam: oyisodo'lisre depicted, It is the famous scene
that ioxma the culminating point of the Epic of Penman that) Egyp-
tian Iliad, which W8 have alxeady mm with on the pylon at Luck
(5). 112) and on tha S. wall of the ample of Kama}; (p. 141). ‘He {£26.
llamas) haleud and encampcd to tha NW. ofliatesh. Then be pressed
against him worthless fee, the Khsta. Hz was alone and no other
was with him. Ha found himself surmundeé by 17500 waxmchariots,
etc.’ The escape of the king from his imminent danger by the help
oi‘ the gods and his own right arm forms the subject of the epic,
which his 1mm yiesarveil not. only upon the walks of ismples but
also in a papyrus—rail. Its chi-3f contents hive beengiven alsawhere
{p 152). The relief before us zeprasents this. eventful moment in
the warlike career of Ramses, while a reyetition of the same subject
on tbs W. Sid§ of tha ascend wish and the inscription an the
mchitrave in this sacond court of tha tamyle, inform us that the
Ramesseum was messed by Ramses II. as u Votive Building in
gratitude for his deliverance out cf the hands of 2600 enemies.

To the axtreme right, in ﬂoat of the horses of the king, appears
ﬁrst the confusati mass oi‘ men and horsea ovexihmmx by the royal
hero. Besida thrﬁe Egyptians who hold an Asiatic head downward,
is the inscription: ‘The miserablelord of Khileb {Khalybon~Alappo).
His soldiers pull him out of the water into which His Majesty had
cast him’. At the smi of the relief the; guinea of “m Kheta is shown
ix: his sharing snnounded by unarmed followers, with the accom—
panying words: ‘lle stands still beside his few—soldiers and cavalry.
His face tamed backwards. He advanced no more into the battle
from fear of His Majesiy, when ha ind. seen His Majesty/Emile“ as
(alsewlmrls the king and his chariot an} on a linger male than the
other ﬁgures; the Khela prints-3 is smaller map p ‘1‘ 3; but

Bangui?! ngar Egypt. 7 I '7
Page-222
162‘s Boats 13. TEEBES. West Bank:

larger than the other soldiers. wThe limestone blocks forming the
Doorway of this sandstone pylon display various sculptures and in»
scriptions, the latter containing the usual dedicntory formulae.
The Thehsn tried (Ammon, Math, and Khunsu) and another Grind
consisting of Ptah, Sonnet.S [uni Rather are among the divinitiee
which here received sacriﬁces aml bestowaé gifts.

0:: missing the First Court {PL A) we observe that it has! on
its wright and left sides a double row of columns, of which, however,
only a few scanty remains are to he found on the 3. To the W.
t ls space is bounded by the ﬂawed Pylon, new in ruins. 0n the
left (3.) stood the colossus of Ramses 11. (Pl. cl), the material of
which was justly aﬂmli‘ecl by Dioclome (p. 159), and which really
may be termed. the hngest statue in Egypt. The remarkable granite
5mm; {not sandstone like the colossi of Memnon} was {txﬂbﬂbly
Mateo down the river on rafts from Assm‘m to Thebes. It has been
deliberately ﬁestroyed (apparently, them the marks at the fractures,
by means of dsmp wedges), though to do so must have cast its
enormous pains. In the time of Dicdoms, who visitotl Egypt about
60 All, it appears to have been still uninjured; and we may conv-
olude, therefore, that it was destroyed in consequence of the edict
of Theedosius, as one of the principal pagan idols. The name of
Ramses 11. appears in well—preserved hieroglyphic-s on the upper
arm and on the east of the statue3 which lies close by in shattered
fragments. It oannot now be put together, as the inhabitants of 'Abd
elvlfiumah have broken off slabs of granite and smoothed them for
the purpose of husklng their corn. The fans is unfortunately com—
pletely destroyed. The remains (breast, upper arm, ens feet, etc.)
still testify to the care with which this gigantic monument was
chiselied and polished. The invents of the French Expedition ure—
fnlly measured the various parts, as follows: length of eer 31/2 ft,
surface of fsce from ear to em 63/" my surface of breast from
sho'uliler to shoelace: ﬁll/3 it, from one shoulder to the other in a
straight line 211/2 ft, alreumierence of the inn at the elbow
171/2 it, diameter of the or. between the elbow and shoulder
43]; 53., length of the isle: ﬁnger 31/5 ft, length of the nail on the
mlédle linger 71]; lashes, breadth of ditto 8 inches, breadth of the
feet ecsoss the toes, 41/2 it. The total height seems to have been

571/2 51‘s., and its total weight over two million pounds.

The solos“) head of another Statue of Basins 11'. was («and on the
8. side of the hamyla farther bank, and was conveyed to the Kilo; by
Iielzoni in (816, and thence to Alexsndrln. I: is new one of the ehlef
treasures in the Egyptian Gallery of the British Eusenm.

The Beoenﬂ Periatyle Court (Pl. B) is in much better pre—
servation than the ﬁrst court, and is mentioned with its oarysﬁdes
in Diodorns’s deseriptlan of the tomb e! Osymsmlyas (p. 159). Its
general arrangement is easily understood. On all four sides were
summaries, those to the right and left {PL and 8.“) having two rows
of papyruybml columns and that on the E. (from? side ﬁllets with
Page-223
Rammwm. THEEES. 13. Route. 163

statues of Osiris, while on the W. (rear) sirle, ﬁlm roof of the
colonnsdad passage was support“ by {)siris—caryaﬁdes (faoing the
sour?) and papyrus-hm}; columns. The) N. and S. colonnades have
almost completely disappeared, but four caryatide—piliars still stand.
or: the E. and as many on the W. Towards the W. em}, in the
direction of the entrance so the hypostyie hall, afterwlzrés to be
desnribed, a number of steps ascend from the pavement of the court
to the doorway. Slowing in the doorway of the soc-0nd pylon and
looking wastwaxd through the: sentral door of the hyposﬁyle hail
and through the smaller doorway in its farther (W3 sicle, we. com—
mand an architectural perspective of great charm. The builder has
succeeded. in producing tho effect of distance and size by raising
the ﬁoornlovel of the (ample towards the W. smi by gratiually
diminishing the size. of the éoorways that sucoeod each other in the
same axis.

In the saconﬂ court the reyreseutaﬁons on tho W. Wall of the
Second Pyion (P1. 6), in front of which rose the E. row of carya—
ﬂoss? are of special interest, The S. sitie of the wall has complemly
collapsed. In the miﬁst of’the ruins project two blocks of stone,
which bear a. representation of the fortress of Katesh, surrounded
by a blue stream [to the right of the beholtlor in the second court).
To the extreme left, the Pharaoh. much largo: than the other
warriors, ﬂashes along in his chariot with his how be. t. This is
one of the most vigorous of the numerous battle—scenes that have
been preserved on Egyptian pylons. The leaping lion beside the
king’s oharioi is ours of its adornment merely, though at tile ﬁrst
glance it is opt to be taken for the king’s balaIe—oorxrpaninn propor—
ing for a mighty leap. Diodorus perhaps had this in his mind when
he describes the relief of a fortress surrounded by water, and the
Pharaoh dashing against the foe along with a ﬁerce lion that used
to accompany him. in battle. The Asiatios fall before the onset of
the king like ears of com before a hail—smrm. Hurldled pell~mell
in confuse-ti heaps, pierced by arrows or trodden down by the horses,
she Kheta fall a prey to (leaﬁh, The Gro’ntes ﬂows by the side of
the oombatams and crowris of Kheta are hurled mm H; 'waanrriors3
horses, and chariozs sink beneath the waves. We are irresisﬁibly
reminded of the crossing of the Red Sea by the Israelites, that took
place only half a. century lator. ‘Phnraoh’s chariots and his host
heal: he cost. into the sea: his chosen captains also ore drowned in
the Red sea. The depths have covered them: they sank into the
bottom as a. stone’ (Exod. xv, 4, 6). Farther to the right, beneath
rim fortress, some soldiers hold out a rescuing hand. to the (how!)—
ing. Everything indicstes that we hove hers a free rcyeciiion of
the battle-scene on she ﬁrst pylon. The battle rages near Katesh,
among the slain here also are Khirapasor, the historiographcr or
the Khan princo, Kersbat‘ssa his ohariotecr, Tituro, n’hief of his
anmﬂams, Pisa. his mostor of tho horse [Kazqﬂ To )kammasﬁ etc.
Page-224
164 Route 23. THEBES. West Bank :

Hera also ayyear long rows 02‘ chemists, hastening tea-the ﬁght. Host.
decisive of all, however, is the inscription beside the heath of the
king 5 horses, which contains once more the passage from the epic
of Pentaur, telling us what event in the life of Ramses was com-
memorated by tbs erection of the Ramesseum. Once more new: the
words: ‘He was alum: and n0 other was with him. He found. him-

self surrounded by 2.500 chariots’; etc.

It may be mentioned here that a series of manuments of the Hittite»
{Rheta} with ricturawritlng {diﬁ'ering frum him-cg}, “phicﬂ has rccen ‘ly
been discovered, including several blocks in a. bridge at llama}! (new in
Constantinople) and a. silvsx- plate (aim) found at Hamish) with the names
of Tarriétx‘mma (T'Mkomit-mos) in cuneiform and Kheta characters In 1368
Dr. Eumsnn excavated one of the chief cities of the Kaela, near swam}
(0 than 11.113 of Antioch. The highly inportnnt inscribed stoma: found
there are naw in tbs New Muscat-n at Harlin.

Us: the Upper Part of this yylon we observe the pmcassiou of
the Festival of the: Staircase, in humour of the god Khan: (reprassntnd
in detail at Medinet Hub-u and described an 1:), 178). The ﬁgures
which bear the statues of the king‘s ancestors, should be noticed.
The names besides the ancestral images are those of Melts, ﬁrst king
01’ Egypt, and of the Pharaohs of the 18th Dynasty. From this
repressntation we parcaive that the mouumane is sepulchral. Ada
jscent are priests letting ﬂy the birds into which the four children
of Horus {:Amset, Hapi, stc.) have changed themselves, far 1315 pur-
yose of csrrying tidings to the four quarters of the globe that the
Pharaoh has attained the crown of both worlds. Each bird is told
Whither it must ﬂy. ‘Haste, Amset; to the S. and bring tidings to
the gods of the S. that Horus, the son of Gsirls, has obtained pos—
session at the crowns of Lower and Upper Egypt‘. In tbs nsxt line
this is reyeated with the substitution of Ramses for Horus. The
other birds are dzspatchad in similar turmr, t0 the 1‘41, E., and W.
Farther to the right the king appears cutting a sheaf wish a sickle,
thus discharging the second coronaﬁon-csremony usual at the festi—
val of tha staircase.

Proceeding now to examine the rest of the courtF we absence
that on this Archiiﬁwe af the W. Colannadt the space usually devoted
to the dedicatory inscriytion is occupied by ﬁne hieroglyphics.
After what has already been said, it is scarcsly surprising to meet
ancs mow the famous passage from the opic of Pentaur: m. "The
king, who abounds in strength, who chastises this barbarians and
the world of alien lands, striking them to the sarth. Hz was alone
and no other was with him. Ramses 11., the life— ~giver, king of
Ummr and Lower Egypt . Statues of the king adumsti this pexistylu
court as is indicatnd by the extant pudestals. Fragments (If one
of these, m beautiful grey granite, lia upon the ground The ‘IIead
with down-cast eyes, is a master-piece.

We aswnd to tlxa W. cclotmade by means of the shallow stays
mentionad at p. 163. Behind 13.10 Osiriswcolumns stood ﬁnely de—
signed papyrus—bud. columns,inwhich,howevar,the It; ' und-
Page-225
Ramesmm. THEBEﬁ 23~ Rom 165

idaa was indicated mersiy by lightly carved met-leaves on the inwar
part 0f the shafts. Bey-9nd this colonmﬂe is a ‘Hypostyle Kai!
(Pl. 0), which can hardly, however, be identiﬁed With the: adeum—
shaped ital] mention/ail by Diodorus in his description of Hm tomb
of Usymandyas (p.159). The inscriptians call it the ‘Hall of the
Appearsncu’ (comp. p. 85), Diodorus describes his ball as square,
whereas tbs me before us is 98 ft. deep “(1196 ft. broari‘ The
three Entrances 1n stationed by Diodorus still exist, and am framed
with scuiyéuied blocks of granite. The artistic forms displayed in
this hall are sc- extraordinarily ccngrnons with each other, the (ii-
mansions so skilfully calculated, anrl the propuﬂions so harmonious,
that we do no: imsimte m describe it as the inns: bommmi lazuli ex-
tant in any Egygminn sample“ 111 its arrangement it resembled the
great colonmdad hall at Karma. In 1.)“) centre a. passage was
marked nut Evy six caiipias 0i higl‘ier 00111113115 with calliyx-cspilais1
on each siule a? whirll were three rows of lower papyrus-bud c0—
lumns. “Hm the Haltsr a wall rose as high as the chi); xmmiumns,
with 1:! ch it shaved 2m, wsight 0f the roof while a summed but
suﬂhient light was admitted In the bamtil‘ul hall through openings
in this wall. 0n the eutside of the still standing S .E. wall of this
hypostyls haJ sppuars the kneeling king doing Hcmagz to Amman,
Mutt], and Khunsu, further to the left Thom writing the car-
touche of the king7 and t0 the extreme left the king between Mentu
and Tum. Beneath is a. procession of the sons ci‘Ramses 11., only
some of wlumi, with t‘beir names, have been preserved. They are
found in beater pmservscion to the right anti left; of the door in the
W. wail of tha hall. Diedorus went-inns thac'tlie odeum «untamed
1111111010115 wooden statues, representing persons befors a tribunal
and gazing upon ‘1‘st judges Reliefs 01".jndges 30 in number, “re
said to have been seen on one of the walls [bar this has possibly
arisen from a cenfusirm wi h the sons of 811111535.) In the midst
of the judges annealed. a prasiding judga from whose neck hung
the' image «3“: nth wiﬂa closed eyas, and by whoss 81 tie lay numsrous
books. These statues were said to intimate by albeit attitudes (Biol
T05 ox'hpaxmgj that the judges might accept no gifts and that the
presidem could look only to the truth. ~ Thai statues nciuaﬂy
did siand in this hall is indicated by pedestals found between the
ﬁrst and second coiumns in the central r.ow It is also by no means.
impossible that a trislu scans (like the Judgment of the Dead at Dér
elnMeﬁineh, p 189) may its”? 6 occupied the wall of one of Hm adjoin-
ing chambers; and 11‘: is easily concaivabla that the hypestyie of the
Rzmesseum, with which a library and a famous 5021001 nf scribes
were con mi may have been used as a court by éhe supreme
colisge 0 has

The sninrion' which have remained axe 1220111071185 wi'J
other subgests wh s 4.31:1 ﬁne inscription on the S. E ‘M't'l whims
to the WM viii}: me Kheta Tim. relief amompazxy g :0 1 is
Page-226
166 Km 13. THEEES. West Bank:

distinguished for the bsauiiﬁil modelling of the kings horses dash-v
ins ium the ﬂghi, and for the reprcsanmtion of the Asiatic fsmsss
of Tapum, which is stunned by the Egyptians on scaﬁhgwlwdem.
while the defenders are hurled headlong from the batilements. Se—
veral sons cf the Pharaoh, the names of whom are given, distinguish
themselves in the baiile. Twc of these (towards the 13ft) us da—
picted on a large; scale than the others, viz. Khawm-us, the favou—
rite son of Ramses, and Menth, prince of the 11100:}; each of whom
is in the act of slaying an enemy. The younger princes, Mari-Amen,
Amen-em-ua, Seﬁ, and Setsp-cn-Ra. covered wiih their shields,
take yam in the attack (bales! tha fortress). Diodoms appmshﬂy
had this same in his mind when he describsd the Egyptian army as
commanded. by the sons of the king.

The reliefs at the sides of and above the porisl (adorned with
the canons comics) in the Bear Wall are in good preservztion.
Each pillar is divided into four llama. la the ﬁrst (top) ﬁelds the
king is shown offering to Sekaersiris (on the left) am! in PM {on
the right); in both the second ﬂaids he offers sacriﬁce to Amman
Genaramr; and in the third to Amman—Ra as king of the gods (left)
and to tha same god as lord of heaven (right). From the fourth
ﬁelds we learn the use to which the following: roams 9mm put; on
the halt is Milli-mad the ibis-hauled Thom-Hermes, gm: of wisdom
ami of writings; on ﬁlm right (opposite) is Safekh? goddess of history

(recagniza‘hie by ihe (1.] above her head), named hers ‘tha king‘s

mother Safekh, the great mistress of beak—writing. At the foot is
the dadicatoty inscription, informing us i‘nat the king erected this
palatial Rimming 60 his father Ammon, king- af they gods and lomi
otlwaven, wince cf Timbes‘ — On each side at the «low is a. pro-
cession of youthful farms, wlzh the leak at hair hanging to the side,
peculiar to the royal children. Their left hands are raised, and their

right. hands hold the herdsman’s stock ’f, the symbol of pxinceiy

dignity, and the {an 3:, the symbol of must-unit. The list to the

righi is the more complete; but at the and 01‘ aha procession on the
left two princesses appear, who are wanting in the other. Over tbs
ﬁrst ﬁgures but applying equally to the (when appea: the full titles
of Egyptian royal princes. The ﬁrst is as foliowsz ‘Ths fan-beam:
at the right hand of the king, the mince and royal scribe, the lands:
of the willy} the great (Ur) son Qf the king? 11m ﬁrm-horn of his
bndy, his beioveii Amen-hi-khopeshf’. While this son is named the
(great) son of the Ring, the next one, Ramessu, is called the (grant)
son of the law! of haul worlds. The third prince, Ba—hiwuanemif
[Ra at his right hand) is named master 0f the horse [Hid charisma.
Faun}: comes the king’s favourite son, Khavvem-usﬁee abevc}, whose
Page-227
Ramaamm, THERES. I3. Route. 167

mummy was found in the region of the Apia—sieves of Saighﬁxehi
There are in all 23 princes, Gf whom only the thirteenth need still be
mentiened. After the {math of 1‘3 brothers he ascended the throne
at a ripe age. As we may gather from the list to the left, this is
Maunplah, frequently though inaccurately named the Pharaoh of the
Exadus, whose name as king was afterwards added in the cenouche
above him. A simiiax honour naturally could not fall to any of the
other princes. On the columns impetus Ramses IL oﬂeringisactiﬂces
to and receiving gifts from the ‘gods worshiwed in the Rumeeeequ
conspicuous among whom are Amman in his various forms, Seth,
Theth, his, M57 Nut, Sekhet, etc.

The Ieeana Smaller Golemded Hell (Pl. D), with four ceuyle
of papyrus—bud columns, is remarkable for two features. The ﬁrst
is the roof richly decorated with astronomical representations, prawn
ing that. the Bameeseum was 5 monument dedicated to the womhip
of the dead. The second is a xepxesentetion on the N. part of the
:ear-waii {the 8-. part is mined), which seems it: support the state-
menc of Diodoms that a sacred lihruy was deyosimd in the tomb
of Osymemiyas , with ﬁhe iagerﬂi ‘Hespiwl for the seul‘ {LPDX’TIQ
Eutfm'iov). The Pharaoh, with all the royal attributes} sits upon his
throne. At his side rises the leafy persea—tree, with heart-shaped
fruit, upon which the hi xg’e name is being written by ihxee ﬂeities,
viz. to the left. Tum on a lofty throne, tn the right the goddess of
history, and behimi her ThotheEermee. Behind’i‘um are the words:
‘Atidxess of Amman—T111111 lord of the great haii (of ﬁeliopolis), in
the Remeeseum to his son Ramses, the heioved of Ammon. Up, for
the iietinguiehing of thy name to ad: eternity, that it may be pre-
served on the sacred perigee-twee In this hell 3150, an either side
of the ﬂoor, is a procession with the seared. heats of‘hiuth, Khunsu,
the deiﬁed king, and his consort.

The following Roam (Pi. E) is much injured, though fem- co-
lumns are still sending. It contains lists of eiferings, and a few not
uninteresﬁng endgame (chieﬂy on the doormpiiims), which seem
still farther in support the belief that we are new in the rooms of a
Library. The ﬁgures ofthe Thehan triad are nomnueuai; butthe forms
of Sefekh, mistress of Libraries, and Thoih—Eexmes, the celestial
scribe {both facing the roam we have now entered) are noticeahiea
The god is accompaniaé by a form representing the personiﬁed sense
of sight, with an eye as his symbol; the goddess by the personiﬁerl
sense of hearing, with an as: above his head. Thoth writes down
the resolutions and theughte ef the god, while Safekh, the goddess
of histoxy, causes the fame of the greac deals at the yest to ring in
the ems of posterity. The dedicewxy inscription sieves that ehis
door was everiaid with silver—gilt (electrum), and Champoﬂion
feud the: the very low relief was formerly cavered with a cinch
«mated with stucco, and was then probably gilded, No trams of the
gildiug is now to he found‘ - The shins—rooms adjoining this W.
Page-228
168 Route 14. TEEBES. West Bank:

portion of the Rsmesseum are in a very ruinoﬁs condition, but- their

arrangement may be parﬁy made out.

Behind the Ramaseum. especially towards the KW“ are {he remains
of a number of extensive Brick Buildings, same of which were erected in
the time of Ramses 11., as we learn from the stamys on the. bricke. Among
the rest are some well~consirncbed vaults. As the lamb of Ramses ll.
has been discovered a: Bibﬁn el—Mulﬁk (p. 2177), there can be no quesziml
of his grave being new, 0:: the other hand we learn 1'er the papyrus—
rolls that a celebrated university anti 3 seminary in: scholars, comparable
to she Museum at Alexanﬁrie, were eonnealea with the Rams-551ml, and
Blood s: the zenith of their prosperity “ruler Ramses and his son Maren-
pm’n. Tbe lighrcolouxeﬁ soil, strewn with fragments of bricks and tiles,
between the Raiuesseum sud Shékh ’Abd el-lgurnsh, covers a multisude 01‘
graves, wlrase axisienca is alum-earned of by these whs walk over them.
One of these, belonging to s. cerlaln Hears, canning some interesting-,- re"
presenlsziuns, ehe style of which lndicaies (for no king is named.) that it
dates probably from the early empire, and is certainly not later thin: ﬁlm
beginning of the. 18th Dynasty. We may therefore concluﬁe ﬁrst Ramses ll.
built his votive Hemaon‘mm on an ancient portion 0! {he Thelma necropolls.

About 500 paces to the N. of the Momnonium we observe the
remains of an extensive well built of Nile bricks. The name 0!
Taiwan 111. found here on many tiles renders it probable that a

temple built by this king or dedicated to him stood on this site.

14. The Tombs of anet-Mmai.

Travellers who are not pressed for time should visit one of the
tombs of lgurnet-Murrs'i (viz. that of Hué), on the way to Medina?»
Hahn. 0n reaching the ﬂellls of W. Thebes, if we look towards the
Libyan mounmins, our eye falls upon numerous tombmsntranees.
The vaults of the Diespelites of the zenith of the ancient empire
are hewn in the limestone hills that bound the lein of Thebes to the
W. They have recently been classiﬁed in groups, beeﬁng the names
(If the {lamb-villages in whose domain they lie. The $0th an the
slopes behind the Rsmessenm are called those of Shﬁkh ’Abcl el-
lgumali. Fellow‘ing thence the undulating desert region at the font cf
the Libyan hills in a S.W. direction towards Medinet Habu, we
soon pass, on the right, the gorge of Dé‘r elnﬁedineh, and than
direct our way towsnls the mountainmsloge, yrojecting between the
Ramesseum and Medinet Habu. This slope, an which stand so me
fella}; huts is known :9 the guides as garnet Email Several of
the meme here date from the 18th Dyna, but the majority are of no
interest to the culinary traveller. Only one, to which the guiuius
conduct travellers at once, is of exceptional interest (ibangh recently
much injured]. on account partly of the subject and partly of the
vivid colours of the representations it contains. Near the village
(the (legs 92‘ which are crassmgrainell though cowardly) is 3. tom}:
partly converted into a stable by the {9118mm In the adjoining
tomb of Eom-Kkemﬁ are some hiemglyphics, of interest only to
the selentiﬁc traveller; --- Then follow: the ﬁnest tomb in. the necro-
polls, belonging to a certain Hui, who held the high rank of amines
Page-229
{Emmet Murra'i. TEEBES, 14. Home. 169

of Kush (Ethiopia) and was governor of the Sfuian. One of ﬁne sons
of the Pharaoh used to be called prince of Knsh, just as the heir—
apparent to the British throne bears the title Ewing» of Wales'.
Ammcwicp, u brother 0f Hui, 'wlm appears co have: sham} ﬁlm same
grave, is frequently named along with him, The accessible part. (If
the grave is shaped as in the accompanying out.

We enter by the door at T. The inscriptions ars in good pre-
wrvation only in the transverse cham her, 5.8. the sepulchral chapel,
anal there especially on the
rear—wall to the right (0) and f 7' a
left (5). 011 wall b appears 5 ——‘-~"
much defaced ﬁgure 03‘ a king, a
“longing to 111.2; lamr 18th
Dyn., viz. the not altogether "—7—— 1+)
legitimate Ra- kheperu—nab,
whose thronewnarne was ’l‘uv
ankwnmenmhakmannnes , i. a.

‘Living representative of Am"

men. prince of the S. An’.’

Hui, who was net only prince

of Ethioyla but aim) chief of ﬁlm S. Muse at the king’s right
hand, stunﬁs Mints him and addresses him. In 1m: right hand
is the fan, the symbol of his rank, in his left the crooked staff.
Behind him, an stable covered with costly staffs and panther skins,
are golden: vases and tabla»services, and lmitatians of the most
striking phenomuna of the Sﬁdﬁn. Among the latter are the conical
but of tha characteristically renresented magmas, and inhabitants
of the interior of Africa reprasented gathering their harvest from

1115 dam-palms that grow in thick woods, and %% .2 G
a a ﬁr

0

driving glmﬁ‘es among them. Higher up are
various precious articlias; red and blue gems in
cups, rings of gala; sacks of galdwdust, shields
covered with golden plates and gay skins, foe:-

stools, chairs, benches, and headwrests

of ebony, a costly chariot, red jasper {Kheneth
lapis-lazuli, green stone, etc. Five divisions of
men. bearing tribute are received by Hui and
Amm‘xhomp in the king’s name. Brown am} anal—
black people from the Sﬁdén are represented in
the top row. Their princess, shaded by an um—
brella, approaches in a chariot drawn by oxen, ml is fallowed by
chiefs wearing ostrichwfeathers in their hair which is ignited into
a kind of head [as is 11m custom to this day among these tribes).
The precession is closed by a. brown and a black Ethiopian woman.
with peuémt breasts. The former carries a chili in ab “‘t on
her backs and Back: wnman leads a mule boy in
Page-230
170 Route u. THEBES. West Bank;

second raw begins with kneeling chisfs from the 89631:, who are
followed by whim—clad Ethiopians with rings of gold, psnsherwskins,
a giraffe, and oxen. The last have unusually variegated hides, anti
each has a brown and a black human hand most singulariy ﬁxeﬁ on
the points of its horns. The inscription above this procession mus:
‘t‘im great 01st of Ens}: (Ethiopia) speak. Hail to was, king of
Egypt, sun of the foreign peoples. We shall hrsaﬁxe as then psr»
mittest and shall live according to thy pleasurs’. In the third row
brown and black chiefs from Kush bring goid and precious stones,
anti semicircular fans of ostrichnfsathers, of 01::ch the sums shape
as me ﬂaballum which new shades the pope an 05min solemn
occasions and which was formerly used by the Pharaohs. Au 0:
with artiﬁcially bent horns, between which is a pond with ﬁsh
and, bushes, should be noticed. The fourth and ﬂick divisions am
much injurmi. They show bright red persons (Eryihxmans win:
dwelt between the Niie and the Red Sea), Egyptians, and very light
coloured Egyptian women with nosegays, earthen rssssls, 55261163,
etc. Hui appears again on the same wall. Above and. baneath may
be seen the ships which brought to Egypt the choice tribute of the
south. The two ﬁeld)! adorned anti brightly painmd dhahsbiyabs
(above) resemble the craft {the ornamentation of course summed)
in which the products of the Sééﬁn are to this day transported m
the march. Five Ethiopian princes knesi upon the (hack of the vacant!
boat. Came am} other goods are being brought £0 Egypt in zit-a
smaller vessels below.

011 wall c appears the deceased, with the jackal—headad Anubis
an his right and Osiris an his left, whim between him and the 36415
are offerings to €116: dead. On wall a, near the ﬂoor, stands she
deceased, with his domestics, singers, etc., sud twa richly adorned
Nile boats behind him; still farther but is the prince oiling}; again,
surrounded by his treasures—earthen vessels, skins ofwild animais,
brighe coloured boxes, etc. Rings of gold are being remived wt!
are weighsd by a. treasurer named Hamsfor.

0n the rear wall so the right (a) aypears the king [new the
corner pillar}, with Hui before him. — Amenhotep, another prince
of Bush, is bringing pieces cf ispia—laznii on a dish. By his right
11am} hangs a breastsplata, set with yrecisus stones, like that worn
by the high priest of the Jews. Behind Hui are several of those
goiu‘. and silver vussels, which at that time were manufactured by
the Phuenicians and Syrians with extraordinary artistic skill. Here
also are Iapisdazuii, red cumeliws, and yriestly breast-pistes. Au
inscription exiols the Pharaoh in ﬂmphacic terms sud informs us that
Syria pays this tribute. Their appearance aim-us is quite sufﬁcient to
enable us to decide with certainty as to the origin ofths men hers re—
yresented, casting: themselves in the dustbelore the king, or standing
and oﬁeriug him homage and tributes. Some of them era ligms
coioured, others at" a rediiish huei their proﬁle is unmisuknbi;
Page-231
Mm: Hahn. THEBES. 15. Rome. i’ﬁ

Semitie. All of them have pointeil beards, and several have long
ringleted hair in ﬁllets; while those 0! higher rank wear long robes and
short cloaks of a ﬂnevwoven, richly patterned clock, dyeé a bright
blue and red. Their feet are naked but their legs are covered to the
ankle. Nude slaves, wearing only aprons, gppeer among them can -
ing the tribute“ Besides costly vessela, iapis-lazuli, and corneliaus,
they also bring :3. lion and two sylanéid iiglxivcoloxlrmi horses,

On wall f, to the right 0f the entrance, is a representation of
an offering of ﬂowers.

15. Heﬁineﬁ Eabn.

To the S.W. of Kismet Mumﬁ, and a: no great distance, eppeers
an extensive temple-group. This beats the name of Med‘imi liabu, a
Christian villagn which arose around and even within the ancient
sanctuary as; early as: the 5th cent, ami of which consiﬁumble traces;
still remain. On the N. side of the temple—ruins rise heaps of rubbish,
which we follow in the direction of the river, until we reach the
main fagnda, which fronts the S.E. and is as imyesing as it is
curious. The traveller of axperienca will at once perceive that
here we have not to do with a. monument erected, like the Barnes»
seam, under the inﬂuence of a singie continuous immune, but with
a building begun in early times and not compleieﬁ. until the epoch
of the Pﬁolemiesa The entire ediﬁce may be aivided into three
easily :iistinguished portions, The eariiesr of these is the small
oblnng temple (Pl. N), iying parallel with the N‘ girdle—wall, and
founded unéer the 18th Dynasty. The most recent is the pylon
(1’1. K) adjoining this, with a beautiful and richly adorned portal,
seen to especial advantage by thus»: who approach the temple from
the nlain. A glance at the cayimls of the We large columns rising
in from. or" the gaieway and at the style of the inserigtions informs
the expert Chat this ediﬁce dates from the epoch of the Ptolemies.
Reserving these for later insyeciion, we proceed ﬁrst» to the third
portion, the mein temple.

The MAXI»: TEMPLE or Marximzr Ham; was erected as a Mamm-
nium by Ramses III. of the 20th Dyn., without any reference to
the Previously existing temyle 0f the 18th Dynasty. Though this
temple is beauiiful and ﬁnely propart‘lonnd in many of its parts, its
architect has displayed no skill in incorporating what alreaéy existed
with the new ediﬁce. The erroneous opinion that the temple of
Medina: Hahn was a royal palace must be most emphatically contra-
dicted. I: was no more a. palace than was the Ramesseum or any 011'
the other buildings in W. Timber; It: was a Memnenium devoted in
ancestor—worshiy, and its principal part wssiumnded for the worship
of ﬁre manes of Ramses 111., and to remind posterity of his farm:
and. his exyloits. The mingle serveii also for the celebration 0f
festivals, including a. syecially imyortant one for whose adaquate
Page-232
172 Route 15. THEEES. West Bank:

observance thePhamah made enormous grants ané gifts, in gratimtle

to the gods who hall favouted him.

For Ramses Ill. ami his time, we Vol. 1., p.30. Hex-i4 it may be
brieﬂy noted ibat after the reign» of Humans ll. And. his weaker son
Morenptal‘l {under or more probably after whom the Exodus Mel-.215-
raclites took place}, rebels and revolutionists reduced the house of the.
Pharaohs to tho verge of destruction and inflicted great injury on the
valley of the Nile, until Setnekht, a ruler allied to the legitimate lino,
restoreﬁ order Willi a ﬁrm hand. After a reign of seven year» he «lied‘
lowing the once more. prosperous kingdom to his son Ramses Ill, The
temple which we are on the point of inspecting is & biogmphicgl authority
of the greatest value, for its inscriptions and representations not only
inform us of the warlike aohiavemsnts of Humans Ill, but enabla also
the attentive beholder to form a distinet picture of the peculiarities of
the public and private life of this prince. Ramses 111. is the wealthy
Rhampsinltus of lion-Mums, the moat Bylamloupluving of all the Pharmlla‘
a timid favourite of the gods, whom he endeavoured to propitiate by
overwhelming the temples and priestly colleges with gifts, while in the
building of Medina: Hahn he shows himself to have; been a ruler given
over to self-indulgence. The victories won unée: him were important,
amt it almost seems as though this luxurious ancestor of a degeneram
race. recovered the manhood of his forefathers amid the tumult of battle,

a. Pavilion of Ramses 11!.

We ﬁrst. enter a kiml of Form-Court {PL A), with two small
buildings1 which ware Enrol-ably the Porters’ Lady”. Boil] those
and the girdle—wall stretching towards the S. am surmounted by
round yinnacles, resembling those already noteli in the yiatm-es of
Asiatic strongholds stormed by the Egyptian umies (6.9. on the ﬁst
pylon of the Ramesseum). These small huiitlings boar (behind,
above the lintel) the cal-touches of Ramses 11., Ramsas 111., and
Ramses IV. Passing between the porters’ lodges, we are confronteﬁ
with another bullﬁing almost in the shape of a horse—shoe, which
diﬂ'ors considerably from ills pylons of other templesi It conslsls of
truncated pyramids, with almost imperceptibly sloping walls? aml
a slightly recatling central eéiﬁce. An excellent survey of this pe—
culiar structure, which contains numetous apartments, may be ob—
tained from without, as there is an open space of about 35 ft. between
it and tho antral cu botwoon the porters” houses. The French ex-
plorors hue given this ediﬁce the name of Yavilion, and it is now
generally regarded as the «iwelling of Ramses 111., chieﬂy on ac»
count of the reliefs in the interior representing scenes from the
yrlvnte life of the Pharaoh (comp. p. 174). The apartments were
probably (leaiguetl for tho reception of ﬁlm king when engaged
in festal celebrations and in ancestor-warship. As has been Still
before, there were no regular royal palaces on this bank of the Nile.
The royal (lwallings looked very diﬁerent from the temple of Medlnet
Helm, and were never built of lawn stone. ~~~~ To the ‘W. opens the
Gale a, of lesser height. This led from the pavilion to the temple
prop-3r, and aﬂouls a view of the ﬁrst court.

, The CENTRAL Rumor. has windows and doors in ovary direction.
On the exterior walls of tlxa pavilion-wings, w?!
Page-233
l,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

NET“
2

 

MEEI
Page-234

Page-235
Medfnel Habu. THEBES. 15.1mm. 173

and opposite each other, are some curious yrojecting heaxlsr These
are, as is still clearly Visible, regrosentaiinns of foreign peoples con~
queretl by the Pharaoh, and probably served to sunport a balcony7
or to fasten the velaria which shaded the entrance to the temple.
The reliefs on the exterior walls of the pavilion are much mutilated.
On the walls facing us as we approach, oflhe Wings 5 and c. we
may reccgnize (towards the my) the PharaohJ holding a numher of
enemies by the hair end raising his heme—axe to strike, while Am—
mon Ila, on the left, and Hermschis, on the right, oﬁ’er him the

sword of victory 2 Low down, immediately above the sloping sub-

structure, are the captive yrinees of the conquered peeples. In
these, as in all representations of foreign tribes at Medlnet Hahn,
careful attention is lurid to the racemtype and the costumes emi
weapons of the various conquered peoples. Even those who are not
Egyytologists will at once perceive that lrere we have 120 do for the
most part with tribes entirely diﬂerent from (hose agains: whom {he
kings of the 18m and 192}. Dyn, warrcd. The present pictures; re—
present nmpeoially the western neighbours of the Nile valley, the
Libyans anli the allied (and apparently related) islanders of the
Mediterranean, who are}: in the lime ofMercnptah malls 3n ex~
podi‘uion against, Egygt. and who after lheir repulse returned with
new ancl stronger forces in the reign ofRamses HI. All are deyicteé
will: light complexions, a circumstance as natural in the case of the
islanders as it seems strange in the case oft-he Libyans, The letter,
however, must be regarded as immigrants from Che north, among
whom the Muslurasha played an important. glam Alang‘ with Hm
Pelasgians7 Emrscans, Denali, Sicilians, Sardinians, Oscans, etc.,
may were ﬁrst conquered by Ramses 111., and {hen permit-led 10
take service under the Pharaehs, at whose court, especially under
the 221141 Dy1r., they were destined to play an important part. 0n
the lower pen of the E. Wall of Wing c we perceive their captive
representatives beside those of ﬁhe Libyans and of two other western
peoples, whose banner the Ethiopians else followed. 0n the E. Wall
of Wing r') are captive princes of the islanders, amnng whom spe-
nially re he noted are the leader of the Zekka’ri, wleh a curious
hood, the prince of the ‘Sarﬂinians from the see’, and of the
‘Tursha (Etruscens) from the 563’, whose head is adorned with a
ﬁsher’s 631).

Other representations occur to the right and left in the Narrow
Court, over which the above—mentionecl velarie probably exlended.
As in all other parts of this temple, the deeds of Ramses 11!. are here
celebratei To the left as we enter, the king, bow in hand, presents
to Amman the cenqnered tribes, arranger} in two columns 3?“; her-mi
with lotus-bands. On cm right (NJ wall Ramses HI. reeeires the
weapons of victory from Annnen. In the narrow Gateway to the
ﬁrst court {1’}. a) is the portrait of the Pharaoh estlrcnqﬁgrccm 0f
Page-236
174 Route .15. ﬁrms. West Bank:

hls anemlem T1) the left, he again recolvss the scaptre suds lesés
behimi him espﬁve island-princes.

The Iﬁrmrron of the pavilion can only be gainanl from me of
the walls of the court try our left as we enter. The attempt is not
without difﬁculty; and some of the rooms are not accessible at all.
In several cl‘tlm aysrtments am wellnpreserved wallusculptures of no
little interest; c.g. in the apartment above the passage and in the
right wing. Ramses III. is here represented in his harem. Thermals
maidens with whom he is playing chase (the scene in the ruined N.
entrance—mom to the right is well seen from before the heads of the
builxling), or who haml to him one a ﬁg. another a pomegranate,
another a melon, another it flower which be Smells. Kll'piiﬂl from the
shape of their faces and from the arrangement of their hair to be
uaptive princesses rather than his own children. This srxypositiorr
is farther strengthened by the occurrence hare of asvenl regress!!-

Lations of a distinctly immodest character.

The vicious propensities of this king are gibbeted with biting scorn
on other monuments. He himself appears to have looked with peculiar
pride upon his harem, which was rich ln beauty of it]! kinds, and to lawn:
insurer-calmed its memory in his Memnonium. At all wants his reign
marks the beginning of an eyoeh of lﬁxury anﬁ immarality, upon whisk
decay follows elose.

After passing through the gateway a, we traverse an open Space
between the pavilion and the ﬁrst pylon. Before we reach the pylon,
210 ft, wide, which conceals the first peristyle court, we pass a nun—
l)er of ruinexi walls of baked and unlinked britks, which helongecl.
to the Coptic village built within the templsr In from, to the left,
is a small Tanpk of Ameniritée (26th Dyn.). to the rights block
with the csrtorrchs of Nectanebus 1}. Behind is the temple founded
under the 18th Dyn., which we visit later (p. 1184]. Standing on
the rubbish heart in I'rsut of the ﬁrst pylon and looking through the
gateway ante the temple, our View penetrates to the Eastman. There
is no more remarkable perspective in Egypt.

by Large Empire of Ramses m.

The large First Pylon (1’1. C} is curated with repressntatlcus
anti inscriptions. First to the right we ssa the Pharaoh as the con»
(gusto: of his enemies, and syposlta is AmemRa, the king of the
gods, holding in his right Emmi the curved. sword, in his left the
sceptre, and several wall—rings surmounted by busts of their princes.
in the ﬁrst we read the name of Punt or Arabia, which, haw-
ever, must be here inmrpmteé in a narrow sense, as equivalent. no
the coastlarlds of tlm Rani Sea. Between the king and the growl) of
his enemies is the inscription: ‘He strikes to the earth the princes
of all lands', beneath which is a horizontal row of ﬁgures at some
tribes {yartly Arranged). Beneath that again is the chief Inscripiéan,

from the 1111: year of the ting, relating his great deeds.

All the inserirztions in Merllnet Hallu differ (mm i reyorts of via-
tories under the 18m and 19th Dyn., by their ”WV“??? it: :l-mnour,
Page-237
Medina: Eabu. THEBEQ, 15, Route“ 175

im-odmte flattery, and the absenoe of feet. The names a? the ennquereii
nations are here racerdeé, but we learn few yartieulsrs of the course of
the wars, The value of the buoty is ere aml there indicated, but It by
no means corresponds to the gigantic achievements performer! by Ramses iii.
according to the exaggerated representstions 9f his priestly ﬂatten-ere.
There can be little doubt that he ancessnt‘ully opposed a league of several
peoples, who attacked his kingdom by land and sea; but he did net pane:
lute into the heart of Asia as his great ancestors did. and the critic
omunt amid regarding the» panama of Heﬁinet Habu as exaggerated and
unreliable The report on the ﬁrst pylrm, referring to the victory of the
"Ill: any of the month. Hemlin- in the year 11, csntains some passages of
considerable poetic farce. After relating that the enemy had intended t3
settle in Egypt and to iill lhe 13nd as his (mm, the mount goes on:
‘Death lurkeﬁ in Tamer (Egypt) for these, who had come on their own
feet to the furnace, in which llxa «(maximal impurity under the glow 01'
the heroism of his mag-Zesty, who inspired terror like Band an high. All
his limbs are ﬁlled with the pawer of victary . . . His right but! grﬁpa
multituclcs, and over those wlm place themselves against him his left
hand is stretcheﬂ Gut. like missiles directed against them to 5151' them.
His battle-scythe (mews) mightily,- like his father Month. — Kapur {prince
(ii the Libyans), who name as one smitten with blindness to receive humw
Age, leici dawn his weapons on the ground with his wet-riots, 511d Miami
aloud to heaven to beseech grace (r tebll). His son hem iris foot and his
hand and remained standing in his plwa. But the God, who knew what
was passing in his inmost mind (whai was in his intestines). fell upon
their heads like a mountain of grunts . . . Their blood mingled with the
sax-ill like the overﬂowing river‘, eta.

0n the S. or Left Pylon are similar representaticns. Between the

two ﬂag-stain the king appears with his tattered enemies before
the god Ptah, who aims a blow at we enemies. Beneath is another
horizontal raw of tall conquered peoples, and a stale of the 32th year
01‘ the king imitatedx from s stale of the 35th year of Ramses 11. at
Abu—Simhel}, containing a xﬁalogue between Fish and the king,
To the left (5.) is a eolossal ﬁgure of Amman—Ra, bamiing the swat-Ii
el‘ victory to the king, besiﬂe six rowsamr fettered enemies.

Within the gateway (Pl. d) leading to the next court is the
mine of Ramses Ill, engraved unusually deeply in the stone. The
Esra—court (P1. D), forming an epproximate square of 115 ft., is
enclosed on all sides, and is not ﬂestitute of Sheila even at midthy.
On the left, (S‘) are caiyx—colunms and on the right (N) are OsiIiSw
statues grimmd against pillars, which form galleries with the outer
walls. If we can imagine this gyms cleared of rubbish and ruined
walls, we can form same files of its pristine effect. Evan as itis
it. impresses the beholder, with its pylons to the E. and W, to shut
out the uninitiated, its colonnades to the N. and 5., and its magni—
ﬁcent. decoration in carvings and inscriytions. Bars and elsewhere
at Medinet Habu we notice that want of symmetry, which is
frequently made a reproach to the Egyptian artists ; but there is no
doubt; that the priestly architects deliberately here placed columns
01’ diﬁfemnl. forms opposite each other, with the intention of dis—
guising or relieving this uniformity dictated. by the hieratlc canon.

We now tum to the {mm Side of the ﬁrst pylon. To the right
we see a long hieroglyphic inscriptian; below, to the left
main will} his bcw bent {lashing against the foe, ins, ,1}, ’
Page-238
176 Route 15. THERE‘S. Wes: sunk;

beautiful horses. Th6 slaughter which he causes is immense, and,
so far as the vividncss of the rapresontation goes, may well be com—
pareé with the similar subjects at Karma}: and the Rsmosneum,
though it is inferior in point of style.

Higher up is an inscription from fire 11”) year of the king; and here
also the long rows of hinrogiyphioa are more mammal} with extolling
the king than with relating events. The wnr is once more against the
western peoples, tho Libyana, Maxyana (Haahnunahn). eta. The Isadora of
the foe are the Libyan prince, Kapur and his arm Mishaehar. The op.
patients of Pharaoh were (according to the inscription on ihe N. Pylon)
utterly ronieu, and lost miserably both properly and Rife, ‘whlle tho
whole, aaréh reﬁoiced as it bahelrl the heroism of King Ramona iii} The
world bowed before the king, who is comgarod i0 Baa], who punishes
the impious. The conquered are computed to a ﬂock of goats attacked
by a .lion. The endless pictorial laudaﬁnns of ﬁlm victor are positively
wearisome, while the representations of the defeat impozence, and over-
throw of the conquereﬁ are almost equally almn uni. Finnlly the king
harangnen the lzalﬁu-s of his fuoﬁ‘soldiurs nml aliarioteara, not forgetting
to ocie‘orate in swelling words the deeds that he himself has done. The
number of prisoners uni slain (the latter with their hands, em, an: elf}
is «awarded. One of tho lists Maompanying mu inscripiiun includes one
prince of tho Mashauasha. 5 superior ofﬁcers, {205 common soldiers, 152
inferior ofﬁcers, 131 young men, 149’; in all. Also 332 women, 36 young
women, 151 girls, 558 in all, These ﬁgures give » total of 5552 puma;
Besiﬂes than $175 Kashauas‘na. were slain by the kiln in their ranks.
The toial loss of the enemy was thus not more than 11m panama. This
number of captured swords. hows, chariots, em, corresponds: :15 large
swords, 124 smaller, 603 bows, etc.

Anoiher series occupies me back-wall of the colonnade on the right
1N.) side of the court, nupporiod by maven Ilium-s will: elm Osiris‘ﬁgures
of the king) The uppoxmoss row contains sacriﬁcial arenas; The ﬁrst of
these depicts tile ing, who has alighled from his chariot, shooting his arrows
against a hostile fortress occupied by warriors (tho town Amara, recalling
tho Amorilas) In the next scene the king drags ﬂuao rows of prisoners
behind his chariot. He is congratulaied by the grindees. Finaliy he
presents the caplchs in Amman, Mum, and Khunuu.

The inscriptions anti sculptures on the Somali Yylon (Pl. E),
enslasing the rear of the court, are, siill more interesting. To the
loft are Amman Ba and Mut‘n, the great queen of heaven, to whom
Pharaoh, wearing a richly decorated crown, leads three rows of
captivisa chained lognéher, The two upper rows have «iistiucliy
European features, and wear embroidered aprons and low helmnts.
Over the ﬁrst row no name appears, but according to the inscription
before Pharaoh, they are Shakalsha, Le. yrobably Sicilians. The
captives in the sncond row are called Tanauua or Danauna, a name
in which We am probably correct in recognizing the ‘Dansi’, or
Helienes of the Trojan era. The third row, in which the individual
ﬁgures resembie those of the other two, is accompanied by the
l'nilowing inscription: *Provido breath for our nostrils, 0 king, son
of Ammon, say aha loos from Pnlasata’. In thew Pulasatzu we must
recognize the Philistines, new and no contemptible fees of Egypt.

0n the Righl Wing of the second pylon is another long iri—

sor‘iptim: devoted to the decals of the king in the 81!: year of his rsign.

Horn also facts on: obscured by empty iilies and elobomic Riﬂes.
reunited in praise nf the Mag, ‘Eis form, llls‘limbﬂ“ runs ﬁne ﬁfth line,
‘have been weigheﬂ in the Dal—anew of lanai; he commanrl giluéa;
Page-239
Medina: Habu. THEEES. 15, Ram. 177

and there is none like to him”. 0! the enemy, through whom: diseomﬁture
he won so much praise, it is said that they worshipped him as soon as
they heard of his bravery, that ilxey threw themselves on the ground at
his fees, am, Re is compared with raw, Osiris, Sim, and Ba. in line 13
the king addresses his faithful followers, telling them that Amman has
lent him his throne‘ power, strength, and. victory. In line 16 the nations
that were unable to resist the attack of the islanders are named. 01’ the
latter it is said: ‘Eo peopie made head against their arms, from the land.
of Khuta to Kati, Kirkmmha (Karkhemiah), Aratn (Armios), and Areas
(Assyriai They assembled in the land of Amara. (Amox-itos ’3}, they aver—
eame the people and the land as though they iii not exist They came?
and a ﬁre was prepared beforehand for those who had turned their faces
towards Egypt‘. Amen”; those fees, as line 18 rewunts, were the Pulmata
(Phiiistines), Zekkari (tau'vsrimns?)y Shakalsha (Sicilians), Danauna {Banzai}.
and Unshasha (1’ Omaha according to Chabas). Their hearts were high, ant}.
they were ﬁlled with their plins'. But the king of Egypt laixi h more
for them. God stooai by himt He ﬁrmly maintained “this (I‘lorihem
Syria.) as his frontier. The battle must have taken place in. Egypt itself.
The king barred. the mouth of tho Nile as with n. wall with walkmnnnud
ships, and attacked the ens-y with Madurai-ass 311:1 chariots, arenﬁing
than: to she grown. The king boasts that he had {on ht like Month at
the head of his troops, acting like a champion (usleunuj, that knows his
strength, like It brave warrior, that saves his people in the day of bat-tier
“Phase who rsmhei my boréers reapeé no more harvests on euth‘. Ee
screwed their earpsas along the bank; their ships and goods sank in the
waters. ‘I made the lands go back to remember the law} of E3 pi, chant-
ing my name in their iands‘. In line 25 he extois himself an; claims to
hams iu‘Kan their lands from tho barbarians, to have made their barriers
his owni and to have received the homage of their princes‘ He. orders
general rejoicing, calms the hearts of his followers, ami extols his own
strength. At this point the inscription is interrupted lzy a gap in the
fourth, ﬁfth. sixth, and seventh courses of masonry from the top The
remaimiar contains nothing of interest.

Thugmnite gaisway of the secoml pylon admits to the Colounmied
Hail (Pl. E), which presents. a anxious appeatmca owing to the
pioshate columns of a Christian church, erected here at an early
period and destroyed after the spread of Islam in Upperﬁhgypt
This second court is a specially retired enclosure, in which the
slightly projecting concave cornice, running retina the entire open
space of the square hall, produces the ﬁnest effect. It is 1% ft.
long and £33 ft. broad. (in all four sides is s colonnsde.

The roof is supported on the N and S. by minimum, on the E.
by a- row of cannula-is, while on the We the rear is closed by a
passage; with eight caryatidewillnrs in from and eight columns ba-
hind. An inscription at the top of the inner side of the left (EL)
pylon informs us that this was the Foetal Halt proper; while the
same fact is to be gathered from the sculptures on the beck»wallxs
of the colennades. Turning ﬁrst. to the right we see in the upper
row a series of “Representations, beginning at the N.W. angle of
the hall and running 51! slioug the N. siée end. on the E. side as far
as the entrance. This illustrates the beautiful Fez-1'11”}! or arm;
ﬁrmware, which was wielimﬁea in honour of the gmi Khem. It
took place in the month Fahon, 216. the ﬁrst harvest-month, and at
the new moon. The course of the moon was represented as a stairw
case with fourteen steps (days), hence the name of the l’eslival- It

Bsznixnn‘s Upper Egypt
Page-240
178 Route 15. TEEBES. West Bank:

was sacred t0 Khan, 5.3. Amman during the process of “his selprro—
creation, and may be regarded as one 9:" the greatest of the Egyptian
festivals, as even among the representations in the Hamessem and
elsewhere 3 consyicuous plum is given to it; It might well be solemn—
iz-aul in a Mgmnonium, for Knew causal} the new birth 0f the «lead
god, anti. the soul swarmed from the body arose to new life, as the
vanished orb of night returns at the new moon. As the inscription
of Ammon-an—heb says, the heir t0 the throne sueccedcd the dead
Pharaoh on the following tiny, just as one moon succeeds another
after a, moonless night. The inscription above the reliefs woulti still
preserve fer us their subject even if the latter had disappeared. 1':
runs as follows: ‘In the month Pakhon, at the festival of the god
Khan», at the apyewanue of the light of the Moon—god, The king,
crowned with his helmet, comes in his litter. The body-guard goes
before him. Each bears at his side shield, spear, and sword. The
lords of his retlnue, the higher and lower afﬂcers, come behind him,
and alter them the princes aml warriors. The chief orator 0f festie
v3.15. {kharhsb} mnducts the festival of his father Klmm, while the
king presents to “his father Khem great offerings of bread, beer,
cattle, geese, and all good things. Khem,lthe lord of San, is brought
forward, and his son Ramses III. advances before him, The god
wears the «jumble feather on his head, and about his neck a ﬁnely-
worked chain from which at his left Arm hangar the portrait of the
goddess Ma. The kherheb strikes up a dance, the choir—master
{chief singer) does his duty, and. the Arabian negro praise the
god. Then also appear before the god his rowed servants, with porn
traits of the kings of Upper and Lows: Egypt, as the divine Miw
cestors. No more follows, for the goﬁ. places himself down upon his
staircase, andﬂis Majesty eﬁers a great saeriﬁce to his father likens,
the consort (hull) of his mother. Behold, there ale-:3 is the white
bull before His Majesty, em.“ , . . in pregame «at the living king and
of the royal ancestral i-agaa an attendant brings the buck bluie of
a sickle inlaid with gold, and a sheaf of com, and presents them to
the king. Then the reayer (mamit), walking round the king seven
times, says ‘The king has reapea with the sicklo that is in his
hand, he raiser it in his nose, he lays it down before Khan, who
gives the king the harvest’. The king quits the auimese, turns to
the It, and walks round the staircase, etc. — We shall now see how
this (inscription is illustrated by the reliefs.

*‘I‘roassaiw at the beautiful Festival at the Stair-sue. This
very interesting series begins to the left CW), on the rear-wall of
the Ni colonnade. First appears the Pharoah, on a throne—shaped
litter adorned with ﬁgures of lions, borne by 12 grandmas, of whom
four are princes of the blow}. Attendants wars fans; and three
smaller ﬁgures with father-fans are supposeé to be marching by
the side of the litter. Behind the Flume!) are the twa goddesses of
rewarding and punishing justice, with out-spread wings, and with
Page-241
Medina: Halm. Training. 15. Route. 179

the feather of truth on their haul. In mo rows before anti behind
the king appears the rest. of the procession. In the upper row (hem
fore the king}, a drummer and a trumpeter turn towards the gran—
dees of the kingdom, who wear the double feather on their heads
and carry in their hands the symbols of their power. The use of
there, a bald priest, wiih a censor turns towards the king. A
shore inscription explains that he is offering inﬁense to the Pharaoh,
and names him the fan-bearer at the right hand of the prince, the
royal scribe, general, and crown—prince, whom he (Ramses) loves.
In the lower row are various dignitaries, preceded. "by two young
princes. These, awarding to the inscriptien above, are ‘ihe royal
relatives of the king, young and old; great enri worthy, all (who
have appeared) to march before his majesty as he proceeds in his
litter, in order to cause his father Khan to he carried in yrocession,
at his beautiful festival of the sizirease’. Immeriintoly before the
king is a. yriest, turning towarﬁs him and oﬁering incense, and than
the orator of festivals (kherheb‘), ‘who performs all his customary
ceremonies before the king at his solemn procession". Behind the
king, the prooession is also arranged in two rows. In the “13pm
row are dignitaries, with the symbols of their rank, and armed
warriors; in the lower, royal princes, fen-hearers, and pasfophon'
with portions of the sacred staircase and cases containing sacreti
vessels. At rho and of the relief is a kind of grated «ioor, with
a. vertical inscription in from of, it, to the affect: that ‘His Majasiy
arises solemnly, like the sun’s disc, from his rimming of life, mm-
stancy, and power (in other words, his palace). The king betakes
himself in his litter to the abode of his father Khem, to gaze upon
his beenties’. Then follows the main object of the procession, Le.
the image of the izhyphallic Khem, who here stands beneath a
canopy crowned with “Gratis-snakes. Farther on rewards the E.
well, the image appears borne by priests on a stand covered with
a gailymoolnurea carpet and adorned with enormous wreaihs of
ﬂowers. The priests, who were aloft fans of «ﬁlter-mt shapes, are
comyletaly covered by the camper, with the exception of their heads
and foot. Behind and a little above, two pn'es‘ls spread out a sail.
elm emblem of breath, freshness, aml joy, and. beneath them four
others bear a. chest with ﬁve ornamental trees. Before the former
ﬁgure of the god the king, offering incense and drinkvoﬁering,
wears the heimet of the ruler of Upper Egypt; while before the
image on the covered stand the Pharaoh, beeﬁng a steti and sceprra
and following a white bull, wears the crown of Lower Egypt. Above
him hovers the vulture of victory [as in nearly every place where
the king aypears in the present series), bearing in its ralons the
symbol of the innumerable periods, which {according to the in»
serlyﬁon beneath) Ammonmlihem has bestowed upon the Pharaoh
fer his nypenranee at the festival. An inscriylion in from of the
sacred bull names it ‘tbu white huil’. its horns areshep like

au;*.::=1:‘}!t=5
Page-242
180 Route 15. THEBES. West Bank:

the cmscenc moon and enclose the disc adorned with the double
feethex of the goddess of txuth. Abeve the hull and the following
procession are two hieroglyphic inscriptions, between which are the
portraits of the ﬁrst favourite and queen {whose name, however, is
not. given in the cerbouehe in from of her), and of ﬁlm hherhehi
with an open Volume, who is called the president of the hinge“
and the chief of the festival craters, etc. The hiexeglyphice above
the hull contain a hymn, in which the kherheb extole the god
Khem. And in hhu inscriyticn tumeﬂ towards the singer, the
praise of the gall and of the bull symbolizing him is 33130 sung in
woxde placed. in the mouth of the god Thoth. —— A long train of
standard—bearers pxewdes the bull. Between these and the bull e
priest facing the lam/ex, wiih the cause: {the liarhuh-hand]$ and the
festival—orator in the wk of waiting. The series: on the N. wall ends
at the tehﬁh standard—bearer, but it is continued without interrup-
tion on the E. Wall. Besides the usual emblems, seeriﬁciel vessels,
and ancestral statues, images of sacred enimels on stendexﬂs are
home along. The hearers 01‘ the hawk, vulture, dog-headed ape,
and bull are clad in curious sleeveless garments, covering them from
neck re foot. The precession advances towards the Phareeh, who
awaits it, wearing the double crown of Upper end Lower Egypt,
and holding in his hands a stair, arrow, end sceptre. On a “his in
from of him stands a slaff wich the double feathers and the meted
wremhs; and before his eyes takes place the ceremony of letting
four geese ﬂy, usual at the coronation of the kings of Egypt. The
gases, which here, as in the Ramesseum, have the names ofAmeet,
Hapi, etc”, the children ofﬂerue, attached to them, are to announce
in all quarters of the globe the aceesslen of the new Pharaoh. The
kherheb hexe epgeers, declaring that the geese must hasten m the
N., 5., E, and “C, and announse to the gods of those regime that
Homei the son of Isis and Gains, that the king etc. Ramses 111.,
has assumed the great crowns of 11mm anti Lewe! Egypt Behind:
the meter few, and below him three priests ferry the images of
the predecessors of Ramses 111., each with its name. Above the ﬁrst
of the men hearing standards with the jackel stands a ﬁgure clay»
ping its hands, which is named the Nehee en Punt, he. the Negro of
Arahie, and which is regarded as the personiﬁcation of the mean»
less night preceding the new mean. This curious ﬁgure greets the
god Khem, lei-d of Seam, em, at whose approach every heart ex-
yunds with joyi Farther to the righc we ear: the Pharaoh, who (as
in the Releaseum, p. 163,) mm with a sickle the she“ held. out to
him by A priest. Behind siemle the hherheh and his hymn, relating
to Khem. Almost ehove the sheaf is the queen, then before the
Pharaoh the white hull again, and beneath it a row of images of
aneesmrs. Finally the king eﬁers incense to the god Khem, who
etude beneath a canopy and presence :0 the ithyphellic Khan: the
image ofjueticv, the goddess ME.
Page-243
Mgdimi Habu. THEEES. 15. Item. 383

The laws: sales af represenmtions on the N. and E. walls are
less inﬁereszing. Several beats appear in them. and beneath them
(to the extreme left) the festal-barge ofAmmon. A dialogue be-
tween the king and thg gml Ammon, in which the hulldlng 0f the
«ample ls extollad, alas occurs hare.

Gonesponding to the festival of Khem on the N. and E. walls,
3 Festival ofPiah-Sokar—Osiri: is displayed in the upper row of the
S. mm SEE. side of the colonnade. It begins in the left of the ﬂoor
with a train 0f gvriests cf various forms7 hearing stamiarrls and.
aﬁﬁ-ﬁgbd in two rows. Naxt appears the king, to whom incense is
036ml, and above whom havazs a vultm'e. Then follow dignitaries,
succeeded by a colossal symbol of zhe god Net‘s: Tum, borne by
18 priests. The kharheb maﬁa 16 formulas of invoeatlon. Aftar
him come 16 exalted personages, including the king’s sons homing
a cord which reaches to the hands of the king. Then fellow iii
priests hearing the barge of Ptah-Sokar—Osiris; and ﬁnally the king
hefora Khnum and Pt&h—Sokax~OsiIis.

More interesting than these {can} representations are the Wurlike
Relieﬁ, 1n the lower division on the S. and E. walls. The inscrip-
tions relate the conquest of the Libyana and the annihilation of
the N. trlbcs 6f the Philistlnes and Zekkati, who had penetrated
mm the Nile delta and were there captnrml by tha king. One of
the reliefa on the exterior of the N. wall represents this occurrence.
The inscription contains 75 lines and covers a censiéerabla part of
the S. wall. The 13: Scene to the left of it depicts in four rows
tha captured Libu, conducted. by the king‘s sons and other nota—
hillﬁea. Gina counts and washer notes upon alesfihe number ofhamls
am} phalli cuwﬁ’1 which in both cases‘ls given $3000. Thekingseated
in his chariot andturnlnghis body, addresses his sons and ofﬂciale.—-
213:! Some (:0 the left of the ﬁrst). The king standing in his chariot
shoots an arrow against the falling 9‘06: “Ha sees defeat like a ﬂame
beneath them; he holds the bow in his ﬁght hand and looses the
arrow with his left; he goes against them, knowing his own strength.
Face lo face, he smites a hundred thousana. The hearts of the
Temhu, their 1i fa, their soul have ceased’. w 3rd Same. The king,
drives, with his enemies in fetters. Beneath marches a row of his
aaldiers, armed with spear, shield, and knife. — 4811 Stem {next the
deer in the E. wall). The king, standing, brings three rows of
cayﬁvcs into the presanca of Ammon and Mnth. In the fcur lines
hetwaen him anti the gods the captives are described as Temhu and
Mashauasha (Maxyans); and in the small inscription abcve the top
row as Rahu or Libu (Libyan). —- (7-11 tha W. or Rear— Wall of EEaIl
F, to the right and left of the door in the next hail, are portraits of
(ha king’s sons, with their mum-.3; on each side the: same number
(10). Those whn afterwards came in the throne have the royal
Laﬁouche.

We now enter the Second 35130::er Hall {PHG‘ e vouﬁ was

Ti
Page-244
182 Route 15. THERES. West Bank:

formerly supported by ‘24 columns in 4 rows of six, 02‘ which the cen-
tral row was considerably thicker then the others. “The roof, hewevcr,
has long fallen in, will nothing remains of the columns save the plinths
and the lower part of the shafts. Two smaller chambers follow,
with four couples oicolumne, and then a Central Apartmeni with four
pillars. On both sides 1511058 are adjoined by a. series of rooms {(2.an~
PL), 0f which those in the N. are accessible, 13mm: to die S. wavered
with rubbish except the two from apartments (Pl. g). A special
door leads from the colonnaded hall to the latter, which are arranged
diﬁerenlly from those on the N. These rooms have been carefully
examined by Prof. {limit-hen; and from the inscriptions in and near
them they are now known as the Tneneuxr of this Memnonium of
Ramses 111. Even on the external walls of these apartments are
artistic representations efveses, jars, and other vessels in the precious
metalsl

The INTERIOR of the ireasnry censists of a hall turned tcwards the N.,
n iolned on each side by two eharnbera. The inscriptions Withont exception
relate. to the gifts of gold, silver. clean-um, lap daeuli, malachite and
o'sher etenes which Remnant Ill. extravagnnliy heaped upon Ammo“, so
(but ‘tlie olierlug of his gifls ionml no end“. Even those visitors wire do

noe understand the inscriptions will at nnce recognize that they are in a.
treasure-1101156, from the represeniztlons which adorn all the walls. especially

those a! the chambers on the right. The hieroglyphic m nub means

 

gold Md (ﬁgﬁx nub hez white gold or silnr. Whole heaps of sheee metals

are seen lying in grains or nuggets. Sacks of gold {ram different. landi and
all kinds of precious veaaels meet the syn Pieces of lupin-lazuli nnﬁ
malachite shaped like bricks are built up in stepped Engages, each in tiizea
rows. Arabian iniiarubber (Kami) anﬂ the tree whence ii is obiainerl are
elm depleted. ln the chambern on the right appear else sheets of silver.
anti plasea cf brsss and lend. The Pheroah boasted. ceaselessly that he
had ﬁlled the lraaaure-lmuee Of his father Amman; and. the god Them
(in llm second chamber to ﬁlm right) writing reckons it by the wunilwa
hundreds of thousands and tens or“ thousands (a millinn nlwgeiherl in
sliver, golei, “Drug, la: ie-lnzuii, melamine from RESDBSA (Sinai Peninsula),
elm... which he. has 0 "area! to hit: venarnble femur Amman—Ba. king of ﬁlm
gals, who (in his side has accorded to the king the periods ofﬁaand aha
years of Tum. — It is impossible not to recall the passage in Diodorus‘a
\leaeripllrzn of the total) of Osymnmlyns (p. 159), in which the king is
represented as nﬁ‘ering tn the divinity gold and silver to ﬁlm va-iue. of 32
million minee.

Ramses Ill. was 2:0 other than the rich Rhampsinitun (if Herodotus
(II, 121); and it is not impossible that we here “and hcfcra am very
Reward-home of Rimmpum‘m; which ﬁgures in the pleasant isle unread
by the Father of Hinmry.

Rhampsinitm the Pharaoh W35 pnasnaaell of such vui iruuurm: that
he mummiﬁed 5 builder ‘0 erees for their rule cussoéy 1; alone builalng
beelée the palace. The architect coveted the treasures, and being a cunning
man an arranged a 36mm in the mill um: two men. or indeed an”, maid
nnsily withdraw it. Befnre his death he impmlea the secret to his sons.
These lmrnerllately on lha death at their father bemok themselves to thr-
lreusurc-lmune, removed the alone, and fxvmxrerl by ﬁlm durltmwl of night,
succeeded in carrying “ff .1 large amount oflrensure. They repented their
visits, until She king remarkeé tin! his treasure was «lessening, without,
however, being able to accuse anyene cf the theft. as he invariably Korma
the seal: unbroken and the: doors in“ lurked. He maﬁiﬂ 1 had strap
Page-245
ﬁedtnet Habu. TEEBES. 15. Route. 183

constructed 3nd placed it beside the chests containing the go:&. The
thiavea one: more name, ma the one who entered that was aaught in the
trap Perceiving what hurl happened to him, in: conjured his brother to
cut of his head Zest he shoulé be recognized, and so bring his ucempiiee
into trouble. The sdvlcu was followed, and the brother departeé with
the head, dosing the opening behim‘. him. The next morning the amazed
king dimmer-ed the headless corpse in the securety fastened room. He
resolved to ex one the hotly in public, unéer the we of a guard who
Zuni orders in ogserva this puserslby wavy closely and to arrest immediately
anyone who skewed signs of grief at the mourns’ul spectacle. The archi-
tect‘s widnw, who hm}. learned the Gama-sues, was, as a was Egyptian,
beside herself at the disbanourahle treatment of her son‘s body, and
threatenea to reveal all to the king “E1655 the surviving brother contriveﬁ
to bring tho corpus to her. The urm‘ty ynuth soon hit upon a piau. Ha
mam Ln u; with wine-skins; three at which he opened 'uat M he. was
about to pass me soléiers gum-ﬂing the heuileee trunk. hen the wine
began 50 stamps, he broke intn laud lamentativn which was attracted
the soldiers. They hastened to catch the wine in cups, and drank it up
in spite of his pretenéed opposition. Finally the hypocrites appeared to
rccoucila himaeif to his ﬁne, and pressed the soldiers to think until they
fell heipiess in a; drunken New. He then shaved oﬁ‘ the right side of
each man‘s beard, and mixing possession of Distal-other? body. brought
it to his mother. — The king though enraged, was new ﬂavoured with
curiosity to discs“ : :Rw authur of this trick. Ha accordingly commanded
his {laughter to suffer the Rove 6f anyane who consented to relate to her
his cmﬂiest anti wicket’xeat deed. If any of her woaers shoula relate the
ahnvu incident, she wan; to win him and name his arrest. The admit
thief; no whit aimeé, protuz'eé the arm of a corpse, placeﬂ is under his
Meat, and gaing to Lhe princess, related his adventures with the treasure
and the saldiura. When the princuss sought to suiza him, he thrust the
dead sun into her hands, ant escaped. The king, astonished by sub
cunning and baldness, caused a proclamation to he made that he would
not uniy ynrdon the thief but reward him if he revaaled himself. Upon
this the architect‘s son presented himself. ‘Ehampeinitus expresseé his
admiration and gave the princess as wife to him 9.5 the entities: smang
man; for, ﬂuid the king, ‘um Egyptian]; excel all other men in craft. and
be all the Egyptians‘.

The immense wealth of Ramses m. is i historicai fact. We have
new representations of it in the: rooms which we have just quitteri; and
this Plums}: records in the great Harm's Papyrm his éonasions to the
temples 0! Egypt, (longtime eo enormous that we atejustiﬁed in describ-
ilgg thghgtve: an the waaithiest prime that ever an: on thu tin-ans of :2“)

are 5.

At the N. side of the hypastyie we emerge int» the open air and
exmnine the Interesting represmatations on the outside of the N,
Wall (PL 6). Between the NW. angle amt the steam} yylon, them
are Tm Reliefs, which are described and illustrated in the warks
of Champallicn and Rosellini. At present the three ﬁrst (to the W.)

are covered. with rubbish.

1:: 56m, Procession of Phat-ME, besides whose ehuiot g Zion advances.
in another chariot befere that of the king is the stuntiard of Amman-Ra
with the mm?) head, w 2911 Scene. Fierce battle, than Mashauasha turn to
ﬂee, _‘ 37:} Scene. The king barangues ﬁve rows of soldiers, who bring
captive Hﬁhﬁuashi ind Libu. The severed band: see, ire counted,
amounting to 12.535. — 4i]: Scam: (the ﬁrst unwvered‘ from the right).
Standards are ‘nrou hi; out anti weapons distributed to the soldiers The
king orders the are era to shnot an as to deatmy the enemy. — 5:75 Home
The king starts for Zeb (N‘E. borderlnmi); before him march lolﬂers
with lance: and hcws. A small doerway, above which are Coptic crosses,
made through the ham, conducts to the 2m}! behind. — mh Ema-a 'Shs
king, standing in My (-J‘uu-ioti shoots BITOWI aningst‘tha mi are
Page-246
184 some :5. means. West Bank:

iﬂeneia’xeé u Zekkul (Teuctlens) from the curious striped caps, not unlike
an Indian headdress‘ In the middle, among the 13:86:, are cx~waggone with
children in them. Some of the Egynﬁan soldiers are Shamans, distinguished
hv she conical ornaments on their helmets. These, at has enemies at Egypt,
nherwarrls took service under the Flux-mks —- 71» Beam; (beyond a gap
in the well). The king at a lien-bun?“ One of the lions, concealed in a
thickest, has been pierced by the king‘s spen- aml arrows; unmet lies
dying beneath the harm‘s feet; and the king turns 90 cmsﬁx a third‘ 0!
which only the claws are shnwn. Benesth is a xix-Messiah o! the Egyptian
army with allies (Shim-uni and Kehek}. - 8:}: Scene, The king, having
alighteﬁ from his chm-lot, shunts against ﬁlm hostile ﬁrst. The xmiming
illustmtes the ocmrrenee mentioned in the lnscrlptlnn of the 6th year.
an she second pylon (p. 116) as well u in the long lnacripsicn in me
mlonnmled room. The hostile Slzardana and. Zakksri (Sax-11mins and
Tenczians‘, baa penetrated lnts the Nile delta whom may were held fasl.
like birds in 3 net, by the Egyptian army, until they fell beneath ihe mews
of the king and his fulluwaru, We may clearly disﬁnguiah the Tencr'uuxu
by their caps resembling tufts of feathers, the 5mm“ by their horned
helmets, and lb: Egyptians by their laced heed-clams. The re regenlelion
is exceedingly animated. though not vary dislinct in the n llqne light.
One of the ships hes capsized. The Egypﬁen vessels are denczeel by the
llon‘s head on the pruw. The ship below to lbs right is shared by two
man wiﬁh large oars, while the rest of the crew are rowers seated upon
benches. Archers standinu up ply their bows. In the interior of :11; ship
are a number 01‘ bound snoring, and other: appear l2: she lever new.
The king himself is treading upon a captive foe. In ﬁrms! 0! him are
some archers, And above him, the promoting vulture Uazi. H 9:}; Scene.
The king, having ﬂight“! from his chariot, gnmiausl'y reeeives the granﬁees
who conduct the yriseners. In tho lower row the severmi hands are
being counted and the number noted. Above the harass a fortress is
represented, named Manure (Magda! castle) of King Ramses. — 1m Scene.
The king presents two rows of captivus, described as Zakkari (Team-lane)
and Balm (Libyausl, to Amman, ninth, and Khnnsu, the Thebes: "lad.

We have now reached the second pylon. between which and “is ﬁrst
pylon are him more Beliefs. ﬁne, represents the king attacking a hostile
forlreea, whose (let’enders, many of when are pier-earl with arrows, bog
f4):- mercy. '1he other depicts the king, waving his aworﬂ, a! the
head a! his chmricleers, as he attacks a fox-tress. some a! his soldiers
are beeﬁng in the dean, while others ascend by leaders. Trees are being
fellml in the vicinity.

0n the outside of (she 5‘ Wait (Pl, {,3 m7 the (ample is a Inns; Passive!
Gﬂimdar, which contains a list 0f the appointed sacriﬁces fer the period
between the, 26th Pakhan (the day of Ramses Ill}: secession) anal size 1911:
Tyhl. The mention of the rising of ﬁcthie (Sirius) on lbs 13!. Thou:
(beginning of the year) has led to the nrobably erroneous essampllon am:
under Ramses III. the Sothipyear of 366% «lays coincided with the
Egyyh’en civil year of 865 days; and has thus provldarl s. ﬂxmi era. for
Egypﬁm chronology.

a. The Smell Temple of Bedlam: Hahn.

We now quit the large temple, beside which we note the com
eiéerable ruins 9f the Christian village, whose church steed in the
second. court (p. 177'). We retrace our steps between the pylens,
aml in the 102’: we see the smaller temple, founded under the 1.8:};
Dyn, eke oldest part of lhe remains at Mailings Hahn, Even if the
inscriptions had. been ﬂefaced, the architectonic forms here used.
would have told us inwhat epoch of Egyptian history the building was
erected. Its axis is not exactly parallel with that of the temple 0!
Ramses. The small temple was enterea {rem the 13., It is open
Page-247
Merit-net mam. THEEES. 15. Renae. 185

question how the courts wel'e originally arranged, which preceded
the actual sanctuary. Little cfthem remained, and the laterPhuraohs.
and even the Pwlemlcs anti Roman emperors (notably Anmnlnus
Pins) extended the old building. The following description begins
at. the E. fagacle, which faces as when we turn to the left (NJ after
returning through the gale of the {so-called pavilion.

The visitor epyrwching from the Nile is confronted'with a haml-
nome Pylon (Pl. K), to the N. of the enhance m the temple
of Ramses. In lhe centre is a beautiful gateway, with a. well-
executad winged disc of the sun in the (leep concave cox-nice. The
narrow fore-court in front was enclosed under the P: elemies wilh
columns, of whi ch enly the two at the entrance have been preserved

aside PLI) In the broader forevcourt outside I’ 91 H, I the car—
touche of the emperor Antoninus Pius occurs several times The
large Pylon (Pl. K} dates from the late Plolenlaic epoch, for it ex-
hibits Ptolemy 8098111 Lalhyms worshiyying ﬁre gods: hm, it in—
cludes stones from an earlier ediﬁce, smile of which we upside down
and some Show detached fragments of inscziytlans (as). sacriﬁcial
lists, with the names of Ramses 11.). Beynml ihe pylon is 3 Chapel
(Pl. L}, only 30 ft. long, dating from the :eign of Nectanebus ll,
who was acknowledged as king by the Egyptians in the middle of
the Persian epoch. The roof was supported by eight columns which,
however, have disappeared, leaving only the low walls which con-
nected them like screens. Immediately adjoining the chapel is a.
Second Pylon, 50ft. wide, which was erected under Taharha the
Ethiopian (2511. Dyn.) 13ml renewed and provided with inscriytions
by Ptolemy Lathyrns. 0n the from of this pylon aypeaxs Nect—
ana‘bus 11., on the back Tshaika. Beyond this is a mined Court
(Pl. M), with (to the right] the granite llntels cf a gateway, built by
Pataxnenap, a. noble living under the Q'Sth Dyn., to whom the
larva tomb at elensaslf (12. 2‘22) belongs. We now at last reach the
OLDEST TEMPLE BUILDINGS, begun under Amenhotep I. and. Tut-
mes 1., completed under Remake, Tutmes 11., and Tutmas IIL and
reswrmi by later hinge, including even ﬂnlemy Physkon. Therm
lam restoraliona were of triﬂing importance; IKE a whole 1119 build—
ing is beyond clonbz a work of the lath Dynasty. If. consists of a
Sanctumy (:l’l. N), like the cells. of a Greek temyle, forming the
kernel of the entire ediﬁce, snrrcnndnd on three sides by pillars,
while on *lm me: it is arljoined by Sm: Apartmema. Between the
rows of pl 213.15 to the right 3116. left 9.1151 the cells, and also behind the
lalter, were polyganal columns, resembling those which are to be
found at Benihasen and the oldest parts of Kamak. Those in
front have been destroyed, but one hale mmainenl erect behind
the calla. This inscriptions are written for the most part in the

beautiful style of the 18th Dym but contain mining ofl nportanca

The Kaildera‘ Imen’pliom, found on various parts of the temple, are
inlercating as thawing light on the HISTORY at the ed 6,8- Over eaeh
of the rows of pillars la the right and left of the sells: 3 WC"
Page-248
185 Route 15. TBEBES. Wm Bands:

line insariptimm whielx meet in the middle, dating tram ﬁlm lime of Tut.
mes III, In from of the secoml door occurs a mentiﬁn of in restoration
of the building by Horemheb (18121 Dynr); Within the calla Sell 1. it!
named M a register; and in another pine ﬁlm second year of Merenpiah I.
is mentioned. The meme 06 Ram: 11]. also accrue in the roams behind.
Inside the cella we should. note the tree on which the god Amman is
Writing the name of ﬁati I. In the aiiainlng building or. ﬁlm )1... the MM
of which inclatlas remains of the aid baildlng 0f Ramses 11., not only is
the mien-king Pinozem, 8021 sf Pianklxi. of the 3132 Dyu. rem-(:mnnl-tatl1 but
also ﬁnkorie of the 29th I‘rymmy. Ptolemy Energetes ll. new” in the
upper inscription running mun-i the ceila.

The building, though small, is distinguished by its harmonious
forms. About 6:3 paces to the N. l. is the welbknown Fresh Water
Spring, 3. p001 to which a subterranean passage leads. It is a re-
markable fact that the freshness of the Water remains entirely un-
affected by the saline exudation» from the grounds, even in the ne-
cropolis at Thebes.

To the S. of the temples of Medlnet Hahn are traces of a Sacred
Lake of considerable extent, formerly taken for a hippodrome. At
its NW. angle is a small temple, now known as Kain clm'Agas,
erectml by Ptolemy Euergetes IE. to his ancesmrs. It aonsists of
ll witie vestibule and three rooms, one behind number. Still farther
to the 5., at the SW. angle of the former leke, sieod a small sanc-
tuary dating from the Roman period. It was erected by Hadrian
and. Antoninus Pins. while the ruined pylon bears the names of
Vespaslaﬁ, Domilian, and Othos ﬂu: lnsi of eraelltngly Tara occur-
rence owing to the emperor’s short reign {89 All). The temple
consists of a cella surrounded by apartments. A staircase leads tn
the 1001‘ from a spam to the extreme left 133’ the entrance. The in»
Barilxticns announce that the sanctuary no longer belongs to the
Diosmlitan district, but to the «iistrict 0f Hermonthls; and it was
specially dedicated to the Isis of the W. mountain of Hermonthis.
—— Grebaut discovered in 1889 in the vicinity the remains of 5: Pa—
lace of Amcnhotep III, and his consort Tii.

16. Tambs of the Queens.

The Tm?» of the Quotas are in every way less imporlant “13!! those
of the King: in 8’:an el-Kulﬁk, which should in any use he seen; and
a. visit Sc the former, for which a: lanai 1% hr. is necessary, renders it
almost impnsslble to complete the ﬁrst day‘s programme an the West
Bank. Those W110, hawever, decide in) visit them should proceed thither
direct from Blmllnet Hahn, ma visit liar el-Hedlneh on the wey back.
From Healing-‘5 Hahn to the Tombs 3/: hr.

The reed fmm Medinetrl‘labu m the Tombs of the Queens crosses
the desert to the W., and passes through e meumain valley with
bare and may sides of limestone, picturesquely formeci and curved.
wiﬁh inscriptlnna of various lengths. The inner comain prayers as:
{he gods or the regions of the dead, and ante from the 19th and
20th Dynnsﬂas. The Tomb: of the 039an belong to the same

period, except a few which are of the 18th Dynas {U‘ gather
Page-249
Tombs ofthe Queens. THEEES. 16. Route. 187

20 have been tliscovered, many of them unﬁnished and entirely
without (laceration, mnl in their mugh and blackened tonsiﬁ'inn1
resembling mew caves in the rocks. It is rare to ﬁnd either in—
scriptions or representations carvai in the stone ; even in the ﬁnest
Mamba the limestone walls were mom Mien coveml with glasmr
which could be adorned with paintings withaut much difﬁculty.
0f me two ﬁombs whiah we reach ﬁrst, the second only (m the
W.), that of a queen of Ramses 111., is presened. Her name is me
longer legible, but only those of hsr husband and her son Ra—gn'»
anemi—f. The tomb consists sf an amen
chambu; and a large hull with 4 plllars, m
in the midst of which is the broken sarcc— r

.
x
- “"7
phagus. £1 3 2a,;
The next threa tombs, of which the j -—
fart-best belonged m a Queen Sim: of the r Gui—J
, ;

ﬁlth Dyn., need not. be» visited. But of
the [out on the side of the valley next
reached, ihe second and the ﬁrst ﬁeserve
notice. he former is the Tomb of 62.1mm

‘ '1
A . It lies on the

   

T iti

S. side of the valley and consists of the
usual anmchambsr (Pl. 1} open In the N,
a. long passage {PL ‘2), and a lazge chapel :
(Pl. 3) with a small chamber on each of f) “’"x
i
g

t:
f
——..————_____W‘s‘-.4...._.-__-~

its three sides. 111 this as in most of me I !

bstter presgrveﬁ. tombs of the Quaens tlla

freshness of tha colour is extraeréimry. 0n the left wail (Pl. «2‘; of
elm Passage 2 we see the queen befom Ptah, Ra Harmachis, the genii
of the dead Amset and. 'Euamatef, ami Isis; on the right (Pi, b)
Tiﬁ with the sistrum stands before Thom, Tum? Hapi, Kebsenuf
mu}. Nephﬂxys. Pam is placed opposite if: Tlmth, Ru Harmachis,
im. the: morning; sun, to Tum, i.€. me evening sun, the: two genii
of the dead Amset am! Tuamutef to the two others Hapi and Keb-
senuf, anal lastly Isis is her siscar Nephthys. As a border above the
ﬁgures runs an inscription frcm which we learn that Tim wax; the
daughter of a Ring, the sisLer and the mower ofa Pharaoh, and
Queen 01‘ Upper and Lowar Egypt, and that she :eceiveﬁ. in the other

world a friandly welcome and all that is wished for the dead.

The name 9f the wife. of Ameuhotgp 111., which often occurs an
scaraba-‘i, is also mentioned on the) cunbiﬂu‘m tablets reeenlly dixcovered
at Tell ebAmm‘nnlI, Sin: was perhaps ﬁlm daughfer nfa Ba‘nylnnish king.
This would. account for me reddish skin and blue eyes with which 6h“
is rapruented here.

in the passage leading to Room 3 are at Pl. c the Goddess Isis
(Sell; with tha scoryion on her hand), and at Pl. 5! Faith, ‘the grant
lady of Sa‘is‘ the mistress of heaven, and princgss 03: 9.] the go the
Page-250
188 Route :8, TB‘EBES. West Bank:

ﬁangbter of Ra; she has not he: like‘. In the Sédcuchmmbcr 5 is the
mummy-shaft. In the innermost Chamber 6 Osiris sits anthronad as
supreme judge to whom Salk conducts the queen. Behind him are
Nephthys and Thom. 0n the walls 9 and f are tables of offerings on
which, by the side of distributions of bread etc‘ g lie masses ofﬁowers
far larger than are found in the iombg of 1mm, in the Side—chamber 4
we see the Bathe].- cow, richly decorated and standing out of»: back-
ground of radiance and ﬂames of ﬁre painteﬂ with dazzling colours.
This painting, which meets us several times in the tombs of the
Queens, regresents Hathor as a geddess of heaven Ami especially of
the horizon. She is the new which in the lower wax-1:1 gives bin};
to the young Sun, who begins his active Rife with ﬂame and light.

0*! the right close to ﬁne tomb of Tit? lies that of Queen Isis,

3:313 Ast, wife of Ramses IV. (Nefer—hak—an) of the

‘20}! Dynasty The euhancn is ﬂied up, mm the inscriptions am
nxuah injured ana cove-rad with debris. In eheirmer rem-n eorraspunu’t—
ing to room 3 in the tomb of TM stands a broken granite sarco-
yhagus.

0n the W. side, running parallel to ehat just described, the: ﬁrst
tomb app-cached from the N. is in ruins; close to it is that cfa
queen, whose name has been obliterated, and in its place another
written with ink, apparently t0 be tend Tuatfmt Apt. In this the ﬁrst
and third rooms were supported by pillars. The names are on the
inner wail of the; second room. The ismcx‘iyﬁione were incised, The
two tombs beyond were the resting—phase of another princess, tha
favourite daughter of Ramses 11., Baht ante, and of Amen-meri,
tea. the beloved of Ammon , the latter consisting of a principal
hall with a chamber behind and on each side. Contrary to custom
the shaft is on the late «if the entrance in front of the principal hall.

17 Be: ai-Eeﬁinah

N0 one shoal d miss seeing the bean: ifvsl smell Pmiemaio temple of
Ber 61- Madmen Hing i0 the N. V‘v’. of Medinet Habu. 1!. lies on the way
in Shékh mm} c} Kurnah either from Medinui Hahn m- fmm the Tomlm of
the Queens From Meéine: Kabu we reach ﬂﬁr ei Meﬁfne‘n inﬁﬁ minutes

On the way from the Tombs ef the Queens ta De‘: aka-Medina,
we 11399 {U4 hr.) 3. hiliside with some remarkable hismﬂcsl skies of
the 18th, 19:31, and 20th Dynasties. On one appears King Ramsesili.
before Horns, and his father Set—nekht before Amman. Another
contains an account of the campaigns 0f the former king.

The graceful Tamyie ofDér ol-Keﬂineh wu {waded under ma
Ptolemiea for the worshiy of the dead, anti dexiicabed to the goddass
Hathor. It lies in a barren he] aw. in which several fragments of
buildings am :0 bx: seen, and is eurmunded by a lofty wall of dried
k bricks which are ﬁtted together in waving “nos. ' hmug this a
Page-251
DEF el—Medlneh. THEBES. 7. Route. 189

Doorway 01 stone {on the SE), by which we have to pass, leads into
the lemylo, an the back of which (N.) are steep rocks. The sonata—
ary was founded by Ptolemy IV. l‘hilopaﬁox 1., and sculptures were
added by others of the houae of the Lagidas, and later also by the
Emperor Augustus. The traveller on passing through the doorway
in tho (Inter wall sees on his left an archway of M13 bricks, and
bafora him the from of the temple of freestona, on which nanny
Greeks and Copts have written their names. In Christian times it
was used by the monks as a dwelling-place, and to this is due the
mutilation of many of the inscﬂytions and also its present name
(Dér a monastery). We ﬁrst come to a small hypzethral Antecimmbsr
with 2columne, and a few steps furlher reach the true Ptolemnio en—
trance of the News. This is ornamented by two pilaslers with masks
of Humor, and two columns wieh sculptured calyx-capitals in the
mitldle, which suppoxl um arc-.hi'lxavo and are wnnoolod by walls m—
gambling screens (reaching half—way up). Bamoen the pillars is a
semi—portal similar to the one at Medami‘rt (p. 151). The pilasters are
brightly coloured and peculiarly umamcnﬁod, with a locus ﬂower and
a bud on slantlor atoms at the side. Above are Urmuswerpents with the
crowns ofbosh kingdoms. 0n the left. side is an elegant window which
lighta a staircase. The inner portion of the temple is in three parts.
Ovar- lhe door of me middle morn, thosanctnuy, are placed 7 Kathar—
masks corresponding to the number of the Hathoxs. Enorgetes 11.
and his Wife are normal as hemxﬁflers of tho tomnle, and the four
sacred bulls, Hopi, Urmerti, Temur, ami Abeknr, are portrayed. In
the call to the right is the king before the various gods of the lower
world, and also an astronomical painting, Sothis (Sirius) and Orion.
In the room to the Im, on the loft wall, is a remarkable raprosenm
tation of the Judgment of the Dead.

The valley of Dér el-Merﬁneh is rich in Tombs ofvarious periods,
some of them early and of great interest, with the colours of the
paintings snarvallnusly preserved.

Her-a was discovered the wellnknown collootion of Pam/re} obtained
by A. C. Harris in 1855, containing the {Anions papyrus of Ramses 11.1.4566

31. 1‘20). the largest known, from the archives of the temple of Medi—
nat Balm.

The earliest tombs hero belong to the beginning of the New Emu
pin; and to the limos of Aahmea I. am} Amenhotog I. They bow
longed to great ofﬁcials, especially to the Sotemvas, sum-ems judge
at the Seal of Truth, possibly a collegs which met at Dér sl-Madi—
nah. Wo may mention the small brilliantly coloured chapel of the
royal scribe, Mom}, the similar one of KM, this tombs of Ammvrms,
Zeakeﬁ, and Amenhotep. In several tombs we ﬁnd nnnmrous frag—
ments of mummies, damaged and ransackeé by the felléhin. Con-
tinuing fax-tho: into the valley we reach a tomb wit a wide entrance
{mm which there is a ﬁne vlew of Dér el—Medlnoh aml of tho fertile
piolns to the K, traversed by tho Nile and bounded. by ﬁle distant
Arabian mountains. in the {oragrenml are seen ‘ ll u, ““3
Page-252
190 Rouse 18. THEBES. West Bank;

Colossal of Memnon, and the Rsmassenm, 811111 an the othsr side. of
the river the gigantic ruins of Ksmsk.

18. This Tombs 11f Shékb 353061 til-Kama}:

W1 ~tl1 tuis part 11. the Necrupells 11! Thebes,whicl1 may be reached
from De: s1»Madinah in 25 min. we. wacludc our ﬁrst day on the W bank
111 0111- three days plan. 8326‘ s tourists make it their 55001111 clay, Cook‘s
begin their tliinl any with the 31.111111111611111 (11.13) 111111 the tombs of
851161 el K111111331 11s in 0111' live days plu The tombs to be visited may
be fauné' without a guide.'1“hey we reacheé by amen-ﬂing the E. side of
the Libyan mountains in s. direat line from tin, Ramsaseum. Many of the
lambs here are inhabited by fellﬁllln. The sepulchml chambars serve
as dwelling-places, wooden doors are hung 1‘11 the entrances, and 1.1113
forevcourt is often eneloseﬁ by a clay wall for the conﬁnument of thsir
live. stock. In frank of wast 111' these wve~dwellings stand covered 11y—
linders like gigantic. mushroom, of Nile mud; and 5mm? kneadeé to-
gether. These are the primitive granaries 11. 0.219. inhabitants 1)! 'Abd el-
Kurnah, several of whom 11w well ta- do, with houses ofNilc bricks, son»
spicuous from a 101—1111111111 a distance. Those who are demons of staying
any length of time 511011111 make arrangements with ihe Wealthy 11.1111 worthy
Capt, Turin“, 111112191 of tin; German 110115111111- agent 1.1. 11111101. The area-
tion of a home for travellers has has]: under consideration. and. would
be 9f especial beneﬁt to schnlax-s by sparing the-.111 tbs d11ilyj11urney to
and from Luxor. Sheltar may 1113 found in the housz of Mal-111111111111 'Ahd
er 11113111, provisicns bemg brougm from Luxor. Several Euxopean schol-
ars have. chosen 'Abd-ei-Kumih as their ccuh‘s for investigations on the
W. bank, aumug them Chumpmllou, Wilkinson, Lspsiua (whose lodging
in the tnmbs is still known by 9115 fellahm as the Kasr Lepsiu), Prissa

. 3111751111631 and Ebers. The. visitor to the tombs 1111.111: ﬁrst face some
savage 1111011, but he will be tho-oughly repaid partly by 611% intarcst whwh
some of the tombs 111111-1111“: partly by the magniﬁcent ‘stw which is
obtained” 1mm those in ﬂie higher positmns, esyeciallv at sunset. In this

cut of the Necropolis of Thebes were buried the wealthy nobility 11f the

5th 13:111., upon whuse tombs large sums of money mmt have been. spent.
The inscriptions teem-é. 12111 lbs deceaseé were 111 their life-time invested
with the: highest spuitual and tempo:- zl dignitius and that they umayed
almest ruyal astatas. 11ml: 1111111 in which they show in sculpturas and
inscriptions. Hewever éeath is not forgotten 111 these tombs, for there is
1.11) 1131.11 of funeral“ epitanhs. In almost. all of than: £1111 we ﬁnd gems;—
ingical 1111111111, by which we lam-11 that. many of those buried bars were
related to each other.

The more impor taut tombs were 11111112111134 by Wilkinson, 1111. mass
of the ﬁgural have baen ablitemtcrl. In 1886 Prof Elsenlohr mnumhexad
{11610111225111 all 127 including these with 110 mscﬁpziom. 111 the follow-
me; deswiption‘ of the tombs rafsrencs is 1111.119 to it“ 1111 1111111'1’101-11 which
appear in the adjoining small plan. If ﬁlms is limited 11‘; will be sufﬁ-
cient 10 visit the tombs of Kim- sm-ha‘t, Kansas, N51131:, Seu-neler. £11115,
Koremheh, sud Ilamenk‘heperseneb

The traveller is recommendaé to bsgin with 1.110 tombs on the

eastern sida 0f the hill behind the Ramesseum. The one to tbs left
Q
is that ofﬂa~em~h§t 53:3 ”59 A? {N11 1'20). 31111911111611»
"Mull

3111111. of the royal granarieg, of the time ofAmenhotep H1. The tomb
has been long‘ Known, 511111 111 consequence is much 111.511.1311. It Has
behind 11 square 201m. cut out M1116 hill, 111161 111.11 two other tombs

near it.
The tnmb 111 KM- W715! consists of three halls lying (me behind the
111111111, the ﬁrst and 111111 of which are at right angles (a 11}; laugh 0::
Page-253
Shikh'ﬂbdclnlfmuh. THEBES. 13.3mm. 191

the sides of the ﬁrst anti third were. piaeed nit-hes ofwllieh only one (on
the left) is preserved in the ﬁrst hall, and three in the thirst There is a
wide passage between "nails 1 and. 2. The third hall is entwined by a
fourth smaller mom. 0;: the left of the entrance is Kku-m~fzét all‘ering
a prayer to BA with unliftezi hands. In the niche to the left two statues
of Kha-em-hé‘i and his relative, Inu‘netép, the treasurer (the neighhouring
tuml) 121 belonged to an Indian-p). 0n the right ml the. entrance is the
deceased offering two dishes with two geese in each, 011 the left .4 fem-
eeriee; in the two upper, fewling scenes; below the king driving a four-
burae chariot ; and in the lewest, harveat eccneﬂ. A {lute player encourages
the reaper-st On the inner wall to the left. Kha-Am-hit presents a report an

 

 

    

the harvest to King Amenhotey iii, sitting beneath

i {Dagny

a canopy. The nine captive tribes, at the met 0 the canopy, among whom
are Greeks (Hanan), should be noticed. On the right again the deceased
with a yeenlisr head-dress delivers to the king the harvest report of the
year 50. Behimi. him are two rows {If his; ()iﬂcialu in humble attitunie.
The whens-board Iieeomtlon of the ceiling is peculiar. In the entrance in
the seeoné hall on the right, there is a long 16 enlnmn inscription of
deeply-cut hieroglyphlcs. In the second hell are several chapters of the
Book of the Dead (110, £12). The sides of the third. hall ore destroyed,
the fourth was entirely without inscriptions.

To the right at no great distance is a tomb ﬁrst openeﬂ in 1882
(now No. MS), knewn as Stuart’s Tomb from its discovgrer Villieie
Stuart. it belongeti to Ramses: a mayor (met nut mi.) and his sister
Ptahmeﬁ't, of the time of Amonhotoy 1V., the nan-worshipper, who,
as Khu-en-aten (soiendoai of the sun) removeti his residence to
Tell elsAmarnah {see p. 22). Here as there the sun is represented
with his rays spread out as hands protecting the king and queen.
Proceeding 9.. little further to the N., we seen reach the tomb of
Nekkt (No. 125), ﬁrst openeé in 1889 (the door unlocketi on re—
quest) with representations of fowling, wine-pressing, etc»; the
drawing is rough but the colours fresh and well preserved. We then
climb the somewhat. eteey hiil end, passing the xichiy decorated tomb
(No. 119) of Animus”. who lived uncle: Tutmes 111., mine he
thst milked No. 35. Khamsatelétin, by Wilkinson, at one time
eonsidered the most worth visiting of all. It consists of a vestibule,
anti 3 large chamber from the centre or which an unusually long
pasaage of remarkable and graéuolly increasing height. mas. into the
rock. it was laid out by a prince, governor. em, named Kieth-medal,
who died in the time ofA-anhoiap 11., the successor of Tutmes 111.,
when the tributes of Asia were ﬂowing inta Egypt in emeytionai
shunninnee, to the beneﬁt of the celetimm and favourites of the royal
family. '

The yictoriel elecomtien of the walls can now be scarcely seen, anti
can he much better stuéieﬂ in the works of Wilkinson and Eoskins
(Ethiopia). The tomb served as the abode of old {insén Bafﬁn, the com-

anion of Harris and Lepslns, and is a convenient roam ("or ixmciieon.

he opportunity s‘neuid be taken of looking at the. fadesi painting; of the.
left mrridor, and of the passage into the rock. They represent payment
of tribute by the Ethiopians (Punt, Heist) and Asiatics (Retenuu), various
kinds of work such as brick-making for building, pottery. eorventry,
joinery, glass-blowing, coming and polishing of statues, and a WEBPMIY
of mourners with hampers and women playing mnsieal nstfuments.-.
Page-254
192 Route 13. TEEBES. Wm 3m.-

Mounﬁng to the left of the tomb of Eekhmaxi we reach (t0 the
left of No. 48) a lately aiecovered tomb: rather difﬁcult if eccesa.
The trouble cf the ascent, however, is repaid by the beauty and
freshness of the paintings. It: halonged to Sara-mist (gnod brother),
euperintemﬁent of the southern city, overseer of the grenades of
Ammon. and superior of the ﬂocks of Ammon, under Amanhotep ll
Strangely enough the name ol'Alcxander (Arkes antes) is also faund
here. To ths right, immediately above tha tomb of Rekhmatﬁ,“
that (now No. 51) of Amnzah, superintendent of the palace under
Tutmcs Ill. and Amenbotep II. This also consists 9f 3 large vesti—
bule with niches in the sides, and a rather long passage cut mm

the hill.

The representations on the inner wall 61' aka vestibular. are woréh no“
tlcing. On the left are the African tribes bringing in 1116i!- tribnze 00a:-
eieting uf gold, ivory, was. pwuler‘skins and the like. On the right is
Elm tribute of the Aeiatics, jars, a carriage, a whim anti a brawn horse
and various weapons. In both corners of the vestibule were alleles, 0
which only mat on the right has been preserved containing a prayer to
Re in the name of the deceasea. On the zighbhand side :3! the lung pae~~
sage into the hill is a. scene illustrating the chase of waﬁerfo‘ﬁ‘l.

To the ﬁght 9105:: to No. 93. is the tomb ofAmen-sm-heh (No. 36)
imam: to Champollion and described by Ebere and Stem. It 2031’
sistg of two belle one behind the (Iliumi of which ﬁlm length is am
right angles to Um puegkge beﬁwean them, #36 of a. chamber behind

the seeomi hall.

The historical 1 rmyiau on the 151’: inner wall of the ﬁrst hall pained
in blue on white 5 c, anﬁ ﬂiacuvered by Pref. Ebus, in of special in—
terest. In it Amen-em-heb aescribes the part which he tank in the cum--
gains of Tum-nee 1.11., and gives‘ exact inlul-maiion of the lanai]: of that

llaraulx‘s raign, ami the acnessitm ul‘ his euceeaeor Amwhothp H. He
does not forget to recorﬁ the honours which. the favour of his rhea bad
heaped 1:an him. ‘1 was‘, he begins ‘his Lorﬂahip‘e great ﬂ elity, the
pride of the king of Lewer Egypt, the 313.1! of the ham“: or the king of Upper
Egypt. I followeli my led into the cannery af the north and vi the soul}:
according to his will etc. ‘Then he recounza how he took gar: in ma victorious

I'MM/m l
expeditions to South Palestine K %% [>123 Helga!) i”). ile—

sopotamiu (Naharein), the w wooxﬁ Uén westward ofﬁhalyhun (Aleppo),
Karkhemlsh, beyond the n r 05 Kcsopotamla (the Euphrates), Tyre {?),
Kalesﬁ, Niuiveh, eec. Everywhere he obiained spoil and was rewarded
with yrenents of rings and helmets. and decorated with nwklwus, the
badges or" owicre, incluéing the ‘Omment ox" the Lion‘. The folluwA
ing is an interesting amenge: ‘Aumher time the lord of both wax-1&5 per:
formed a. mighty (lac before Einiveb, when be hunted 1120 elephant: for
melt cuska. I killed the greatest among them, ﬁghting in ihe sight. 0f His
Majesty, and cut off its trunk‘. On ramming is Egypt Amen-em—heb re‘
nmiued with King Taiwan in, who dim! in the 5m yen of his reign on
the Met day of the third winter month. ‘He uncalled to have.“ at the
going down of tbs sun, and she servant 09.606 made himself one wish
his Maker. When it was morning and the earth became clear and the sun‘s!
face arose and the heavens were made bright, than (Ed the king 13!le
and Lower Egypt. Amenhotep 11., amend hls father‘s throne‘. Under 1 5
Pharaoh also the general enjoyed high honours. His skull is preserved
in Llla anaiomleal museum of Lelpaie. His biography was composed by
another eommanderin-cbiaf, named 1153:.

Below thin lnecxipiion are :een Syrians bringing tribute, some ml:-
Page-255
Shékh ’Abd el-Kumah. THERESA 13. Route. 193

ing their mum in nnyer, other» kissing the dust, Among them are eu-
nuehs, eaeily recognized by the fatty swellings on their breasts. The gar-
ments of the Asiatics are peculiar, white will“: minute?! atrlpea dawn the
seems even ef the sleeves. Many of them wear white bands on their fore:
heads. Their proﬁle is strongly Semitic; the red pointed beards ami the
hooked noses being carried almost to ﬁre poiui of caricatures. Borne
bring cattle. other»; ﬁnely worked vases. Amen~em-heh was a great
lever of fin-were, a: we learn from other inscriptions in the ﬁrs: chamber
0? his tomb. '

In Him ascend Hall on the left inner wall them is a remarkably int/eh
eating pick-me of Amen-enamel: on his chariac, the latter nnfonunalely
half ubllEeraled. in his left 1mm} he holds a long painlea slam perhaps
for urging on his horses? in his right a golden necklace; with which he
has been deem-MM, his ilploma (which is frequently mentinned), and the
reins. 0n the ﬁght bani side of the inner well there is a. curious repre.
sentaﬁon of an Egyptian party. There is an ahnndant provision of icorl
and drink. The servants in attendance carry flowers on :he arm as modern
waiters any naykins. The Wlfe of this lover of flowers has a green mm
in her hair. The guests, two of ﬁhem an easy chairs and three on steals.
are altered refreshments. Below, in the second row, the ladies are seateﬂ.
Ar. attendant holds in each Irena a 528.21 wreashed and. crowneé win: flowera,
and all the lady guests have hlosscms in the hair and round me neck.
and hole a locus ﬂower in the hané. In the lawest row is a band of
magic in full activity. 1% consists of twe harpers, a man aiming and a
woman ﬂaming1 a ﬂuée~plnyer and x; luiwpiayer, both of them women
standing. - The women‘s feces, including those of the. musicinns, are exceed-
ingly pretty. 0!: the wall to the right are fowling-scenes.

In the fhird 300m the dwellinghcnse is represented, and £15 rnnf ls
supported by a wonden pillar with a capital consisting 0f 5 rink varie-
gated ﬂower in yed, while, and lwo shades of green, with two cumyara-
tlvely large buds on long stems projecting from the upper pawl. of the
shaft. - Eelow is-tha slerige with the sarcophagus drawn by servants
and a white cpw, and lhe eel-rival befere Osiris. 0n the well so the right
is Amen—emwheb'a garden, in the centre of which, surrounded by plants, is
s pond with ﬁsh swimming in ii. There is a plentiful supply sf flowers and
fruii, which the gardeners are preparing to savvy into the house‘

We now escend still further to No. 31, the tomb of Taken-khan
who was edjutent to the lord of both lands, calonel in the army,
ané fen-bearer to the king. In Skis tomb which hue been fm’ a. long
time known, the colours are particularly well preserved. Alarga
party of ladies and gentlemen is represented. On the large stale the
different festivals kept by the Egyptians are mentioned. If there is
time we may visit 1%. 39 {to the left), the bomb of Plum, not to be
confounded with the mayor 9f the same name 01' the time of Sam 1.,
at the 2’00: of the bill. This Pins: was a dampenion of King Amen-
hatep 11., and followed him, it is said, into all countries by land
and water, and was therefore honoured with gills,

To the right and aliens above the tomb of Fallen-Rhee [2%. 31,
see above) there is a éeep pit into which one can be let clown with
ropes brought from the dhahablyeh. The tomb of Aman-em-bit,
who lies here, is remarkable for some hunting—scenes, and in the
inner chamber for copious extracts from the Book cf the Dead,
written in black and red on white stnceo. Ascending to the right
(NJ we reach the tomb (Ne. ‘26) of Anna, prince (argue—hi) and
royal scribe, as well. as overseer of the fruit—stores. Who (Had after
a long life in the reign of Amenhotep Ill. (18th Hym}. The roof

1543132512555 Upper Egype.
Page-256
194 Route 18. Tannin. mu 3m;

(If the anbechsmhar has fallen in, and the sun lights up its walls,

which are novexeti with a variety of inberesting Iepresentations.

0n the ﬁgment 9! wall to the left prince Am is seen with his
wife Tm siiéing under a light pavilian, snpporteé by a yillar, which
shows that the calyx-capital belonged originally to wooden builrlings,
and was oniy adapted late:- ln anions architecture. The pavilinn has a
natural connexion with ﬁlm piséurn of Anna‘s garden: as he. was n unions
planter of trees. A number of the hints cultivaien by him Am nameé,
and to this we awe cu: knowledge 0 the names and character: of several
of the plants of ancient Egypt. 0n the lung outer wall, on “Jan left, we
see ihe noble Anna again, this iime standing upright, in full annoy-merit
of his rank, while receiving the dilferent kinds of tributes for ﬁlm short:-
housss of Ammun. Them me sci-ills» in ﬂake down the amount of mu
contribution, ané even the number of strokes which He inﬂicéed upon I
debtor. From Ethioyin :hers is a variety 0f coniribnlions to he natives],
including nagmss slaves nan-yin; their children in baskets on ﬁbair backs,
ivory, shony, apes, panther-skins, sic. The Asiatics bring lapistz-ali, sic.

(in the same outer wall but to the right of the spectator Anna is
seen again, but this ﬁims in mmyany with his united family. His hound
is standing below his seat, while ostriches, wlid asses, a land of wild.
gcat1 and mlmr goats ané cattle of various kinés and. colours are lining
brought to himl One man brings rows of pomsgrnnatas am. an strings.
The interior of the tomb is sms11.'but is not without mien-est, sspecislly
from the ahnmlant list of oﬁ'erings on the right wall from which alone we
learn the names of ﬁve kinds of wine and two kinds of beer. (‘m the
left wall is the country-house and garden of the damaged; two women
are standing A! we door, probably his wife and his mother. In the hack-
groumi Anna. is 5min with his wife bafara a. richly furnished tabla (if
oﬁ‘er’ngs. Opyasiee to im is seen his coffin hair: drawn along, anrl the
wsepxng women throwing dust on their heads, ust as may be seen in
Egypt at tin; rasani day. The innermost room of N0. 20 together wiéh
the shaft has sen iiiled up wiih stones, and. all ﬁlm can be recognized
02‘ its paintings is the back of an enomeus Apep serpent, the enemy of
the Sun~ship of Ra.

We patio-a the two long galisﬁsa to the left with numerous en-
trances but without any remsxkable tombs. and ascend} sgnin to the
right to No. 16, a tomb well worth seeing, belonging to Eoremheb,
who seems to have held a series of ofﬁces, espeaisily that of cvmesr
0f the cattle, in the sncsessive reigns cf Tuemes II. and ill, Amen-v
hemp II. and 111., ané Tutmes 1V., of the 18th Dynasty. Close to
it is the tomb (Ne. 17) of Tennis, 8: fan—bearer on the king‘s right
hand, and adjoining this, but tamed towards the K, the 60min of
Amwaphis (Nan 102), second Prophet co Amman, uni of his with
Roi. The paintings in this contain a scale in whirzh gain rings ans
being weighed, vsriens workman, one of whom is making a sphinx,
clerks with tables writing out the crops, and a shine with a man‘s
head; on the right music and dancing.

A little higher to the right is the tomb of Zumni (No; 10‘), ﬁne
should be taken at the entrance, to avoid falling intn the deep shalt.
The paintings represent Retsnnn bringing presanta in geld, silver‘ lapisv
lazuli‘ and emeralds.

We have now almost reaciimi the summit of the hiil, and 8&1!
enjoy the magniﬁcent “View lncimiing the Bamesssnm? the Memnon
statues, and on the other side of the Nile Luxor and Ksmsh; to this
right below the hills is seen the temple of D5: el-hahri, and the

pail: hailing m lbs Tombs of the King's. We now descsnd pest
Page-257
samurai cz—rzumuh. TEEEES. 13.30%. 1%

Bio. 26 (:39 above) to the tomb of Eamankhepersaneb (No. 34],
which, having been opened only for a few years, is remarkably well
preservstl am} is wall worth a visit. Far about, peep!“7 however, the
entrance is almost too narrow. The deceased was chief archireat co
Tutmes III. The right hand inner wall of the large ball tells us of the
imyortam wurks which were; entrusted to him, such as tlm earving
of a statue of the king from a singla stem. the erection of a hall of
pillars, and of numereus eheliska. Here again we see tribute haing
brought by princes, or" Keftu (the Phenicians) , of Khata, Tuuep,
Kat, Katash, etc. The arms and helmets of the foreigners, their
carrlzzges and handsome vasas are ramsrkuble, Near this, gill-1116
to ﬁre right, is the ﬁne and well—préservad ﬁnal» (No. 64) of Aman-
emha, the scn‘be 0f the harvest. in which should be named the
harps: and the long list 0f relaﬁons of the deceased, whose father
and mother wsrs named Tutmes and Entef. In a passage there are
raytesontarl bares with mummiars of himself and his wife Baht.
In the last. chamber there is a Stale of the 289:: year of Tntmes III.
The shaft in the tomb contains a large room covered with writings
Still fart-her to the right is the tomb (No. 60) of a prince [ups-hi)
Enteiakarg and on the NE. slope {has 9f Amhhant, the mm of Aura,
which was complemly excavated in 1883. A descent should now
be made to the gallery, in from of which is seen We‘lkinson’a Hausa,
and. to tbs tamb (No. 88'} of Imaiish, who was scribe of the altars
o! sacriﬁce under Ramses 1X. (N‘eferkara). The festal barges with
the name of the king should he noticed, as well as the many golden
utensils, and the moneywbags, and also a series of kings, among
whom appears King Rashenen, who fought against the Hyksos, and
whose remarkable mummy is in the museum at- Gizeh.

We now (3&9ch to she Elam, where there are a few more combs
to be seen in 1.113 rlirect‘mn of til—Assam inclurling that of Hahn'-
hota‘y, who lived under King Hams, the last of the ﬁlth Dynasty.
In this should be esyecially noticed the funeral processions by boat
which have been copieil by Wilkinson (Manners and Cusioma). The
fumral sarﬁces are also racorded.

We have to crawl through the entrance which is choked up. The
ceiling is decor-sled, mni baa a regularly recurring series of hieroglyphics;
signifying ‘Firsﬁ' and ‘Prolpllel‘a the «lean-sad in fact held the ofﬁce or
i’rophet of Ammon. The amily scene in the ﬁrst mom explains itself;
the 39 rows of hieroglyphic: above record the. names of the. relations of
Chas damaged, whc on the leis am paying hemage to King Home with
whom may were 6105er ccnnected. In the second room we see quer-
halep, sitting by the alde of his aister wha is adornexi with flowery, Eli“
hlnd than: is an “Interim-'0» which indicates shat ﬁlaﬁngnished Egyptian
familiar kept private hands of mualm and is may he Shae the special
duty 0! the harps: whose song has been handed down an pesterity by
this inscription, was to gladdcn the hearts 0! the family when they were
assemblerl in their ancestor‘s tomb for the selemnlties in his honour.
The sang is not in any way of a mournful character, and it is clear that
in the ﬁlms of the Pharaohs, H. was a plasma to he. reminrlad in the
tombs of the aboriness of 11?er and the duty to enjoy it, 50 long 3:; it
lasted. The song is headed: The wards 0f the harper, \fv' ‘ in

law '
Page-258
196 Route 18. THERES. , Westhmk:

she tomb of Osiris, o! the righteous prnpbe! of Ammon, Nefarholap‘.
After an inlrodncﬁun, wishing peace, to the llaad, and glarifyiag the
sumgnd, it continues literally as follows; ‘Celebrate the gram day 0
prophet. Well is to rhea, fragrant resin and ointmema are laid be. are
thus. Here we wrmi‘ns and ﬂaw"; fur the. waist and shoulders of thy
sisser, who is pleasant t9 thine hurt, as she rests beaiae thee. Le: us
than sing and strike. the harp in thy presence. Leave all ares behind
and think of the joys, until the (lay of the vayage: names when man casts
anchor on the land which delights in silencs‘.

Near this is the once splendid tomb of another Neferhoiep, over»-
sssr of the'caﬁle oi Amman, but now! in ruins and used as s rungs-
zine by the keeper of 1.1m Gﬁzeh museum. There may also be visited
In ﬁlm neighbourhood the tambs of Khmlf', of the ﬁlms (I! Aman—
hotap 111., of Mai, and of an ofﬁcial in charge of the stables of
Amanholep 11., the inner room of which is ths rearing plume of

Harlan, a writer of the treasury in 1.1m time of Ramses II.

If the. dhshshiyah is lying at Lnxor, the small. boat should he ordered
to wish rials]: some men on the left. bank of lhe river at the E. eml u!
the slun .

19. The Hortuary Temple 0! Seti I. at Email.

Secrmd Day on ‘lhe W. bulk: 1. Temple of gurnah; 2. Tombs of the
King's (Bl‘bﬁn el'ﬁiulﬂk); 3, New-0pm“ of al~Asasif and of Drab Abn‘l’
nggnh; i. D51- eHm‘nrl.

To the W. bank as 011 the previous day. see 3}. 152. Bram the
landing»place of the ferry we rials across the ﬂalds in a northarly
direction and in 3/4 hr. reach the handsome ‘Tomple, the from of
which with its columns is visible at a cansidsrsble distance. The
original building (506 the annexed plan) was of smaller dimensions
than the ﬁamosgeum «mil Medinet Habu, its complete length being
518 ff... and of this only the actual summary with its halls sml
chambers, 153 ft. in drew}: remain, while there are only scanty
remains to grove the former existence of two Guam and the Pyle/m
which Enclosed them. The Sphinxea which were placed like gusrw
diam to tlm right and left of the door leading into the ﬁrst Court
on the inside, are half covered with earth. They were placed there
by Seti L, and an the bases were inscribed the names of all the
nations which he had conquered. Of all the buildings in the Necro-
polls of Thebes, this onus most raminds us of the Memnonium of Abyrlos
(p. 54), will a Glaser inspection of this style of inscriptions anti re—
presentations will both bring out and explain their similarity, for
the temple of ﬁlm-nah was founded by $9,1in the builder of Abydos,
and both the sanctuaries were restored and cemylewd by Ramsas ll.
Tbsy'both served the same yurgmsc, as n y? we when) the wanes 02'
the founﬂer might be remembered, and offerings made. At Abydos
it is true that throughout attention was p$id to the pilgrims to
Osiris, while hum: i: is the gods of Thebes that were promi—
nant. and this was the mantra of the festival of the mountain valley,

(l‘ﬂ

   

W (the entrance to the neighbo ring BM; elwllinlék was
a: ma; -
Page-259
V
\k\

 

R
“A
r“
MU
E
TK
v-
T
MA
my"
RI
0T
I:
as
N
F
To
Page-260
a §§§n§¢ a x» mm. «a. m

 

 

ﬁgsﬁgu nu E ﬁn.
ES: . ¢
. é u
E . g nu
game
a. & nwuﬁ 2.3
any 8 «L FL C a» tau
aw 5:25.. a. Mm. E m“
a, 6 a w 3
hang at «m.
¢ r.» a a "L
Q a. .L rL
(L ,waczccczcnr. 3. SC
2 c w
a “w 5.
h E. as
an «1.. FL W; .L
Cm W a
w a a
an R a a
is. EE .& m C 3 MW .L E
.L “U r\.
NHL CECEittq: it:
3 c c s:
a.”— fh m C: «
Ru E
nu. &
,v M x.» .,
AWL .ESEBK ugﬁ ﬁg SEW:
Ma aha—3h Ba
Page-261
.mel of 5m 1. TEEBES. 19. Route. 197

probably the scene of 'the festival). Moreovar in the Memnonium
3130 Setl l. with ﬁlial piety thaught of his father Ramses 1., the dew
ceased Ramses Rummeuvpehcl. T0 him are especially dedicated the
sculptures on a false. door, which is reached by

passina through the left entrance door from the m
colonnade on the last fagnnh»f and crossing the hall 8 6)
diff!
hind it. On the inner wall of this last, on the right I m p ca
and left panels of the false door referred to, Ram- é a o
335 1‘ is seen anthronsd as ‘King Osiris‘, and from “W“
two inscriptions between these which are divided 3 ,1ng
by ornaments anal {we Mixers which frame the whole, E :21
we learn that Seti 1. dedicated this portion of his . ” V
Memnonium to the memory of his father. His son 0" w
dill for him what he had done I’m: his father, while later kings,
Mermipmll, Siptuh, anti Ramses 11L, had their names carved in
various places, but do not seam to have either restored or enlarged
the Memnonium. The traveller should esyecially notice the extra"
mdinary beauty and purity in style of the insuriptions and paint—
ings. The existing remains 0f the tsmple of Kurnah may be divided
into fonr parts: i, the colonnaée an the from: of the temple facing
the E; ‘2, S and 4, the three series of halls, chambers, anti closets
separated. by partition-walls, one in the centre, one on L118 left, and
mm on the right.

The Colonnade (Pl. A) originally disylaymi 0 ﬁne columns
with papyrus—bud capitals, excellent sgecimena of this order, but
{if these one on the S. side (left) has been destroyed, In its
inner wall, the eastern wall of the temyle, are three deors (Pl. 3,
b, c), which leaé ints the three series 03‘ rooms mentioned 3.120%,
and the sculpture on it is of great interest, representing 12 pairs
of divinities, each a god and a goddess, eight of which may cer-
tainly he taken to represent branches of the Nile forming the Delta:
On their heads they carry well—known geographical symbols! 0&7
each pair it is saiti that they come in onler to bring gifts to Pharaoh.
The dedicatory inscription reads: ‘The saying of the gods and the
goddesses of the north to their son eta, Ramses 11. W e (some to
then, our arms are ludan with choice gocds and produce. We ga~
thered for thee all good things from all that the earth brings forth,
to placa the temple of thy father in a festival ofjoy . . . Thou hast
made good that whiah had fallen, and built up thy father’s house,
in that than hringest it to an and with works of eternal standing.
Thou clidst cruise to be shown by art his sacred boat of

a :3: {‘33 fig.—
""lll 3:5 ‘37" r... 'ivyw'l‘hisboatisoften

reprssenteé, and was home in pmccssion at the feast (lithe mountain
valley. The Canopic arm of the Nile was canuidered the moct im-

wml two columns and the long inhamlmr lying be—
Page-262
198 new 19. manna. West Bank:

psrtsnt, but otherwise the 111111102131; were retkonml from east to west.
More to tha left, but not so well presarved, are the rivervgods of the
southern Nile. Here the dedicatory inscription tells us that Bali 1.
set this up to Amman—Ra, the 1010'. of the throne of the universe,
in the region of Ammon cf the western Thebas for millions of years
910., and that his son Ramses H. was the restore: of this building.
‘Not all hls works’, it literally cantimies, ‘were ﬁnished in writing
or in bellowing out. So his son, the lord of both werlds,

(01‘ it We)
buildings in his temple 011110le to eastern Thebes’ etc.

Passing thinng‘n the midhlle (1001031 b) of 1111- mlrynmu‘hai we emu-r
a kind of Hypostyle with 6 paying—bud columns (Pl B). This is
bounded on each side by three chambers. and beyoml the last yair
01‘ these expands to their full depth. It is considerably smallar than
other similar halls, measuring only 50 it by 351 ft. A part of tlm
roof 313.5 £113an 111, on the slabs which are yrsszrvm’: are the V111"
tum forms of Hebent (Nekheb?) and two inscriptinns. On the right
is the ordinary dedication of the building, on the left a speck!
mentinn of this lull which like all similar ones is called ‘Thc Hall
of Appearance‘. Evarywhem we see- on the walls Sail L (ﬂexing
incense to the garls of Hebe-s, and bringing the symbol of his
name. and ﬂowers 916.011 the right and left of the ﬂoor Seti l.
meets 113 as a boy, with Math on the one side, and Ba her on the
other giving lnim ths mother’s breast. The young prince alremly

Ramses ll. commanded to build 1111 everlasting

 

wears the helmet Q” and holds the symbol of princely unkT; Esther

m‘th thehoms oft. now and the (Ilsa upon her haul, summits with her
right hand the nourishing breast, and says: ‘I am thy mother, who
fashions everything that is perfect. Feed thyself with my milk’.
Besides the ’I‘heban triad are mentioned Esther as goddess of the
western horizon, Isis, Tum, Peak. and Anubis. T1111 Prim of the
Hall 01‘ Appearance displays the name and snrmme of Seti 1. con—
stantly repeated. Eaveral inscriptions Show that Seti left this hall
unﬁnished, and that Ramses completed what. his father haul bagun.
In the anljoining rooms were are saveral clan minimums m the
cultus of this dead which was celebrated here, In 1nd; G, which is
supported by 4 pillars, we see Set! I. before a; Naos with the bent
of Ammonnﬁa.

The serias of chambers to the left dividss into two pm: 3
Hail (1’1. F} with 2 pillars, into which three long rooms cyan, while
behind are than running parallel with the axis of the temple, and
three in a N. and; S. direction, which are ruched by A passage from
the extreme left of the inner wall of the solonnade This part of
the bul‘ding was dedicated to the memory of fathers son uni 311.1145-
father, Seti 1., Ramses IL, and Ramses 1. F61 the inscrlytions to
the last see above. . ,
Page-263
Tmpae of am I. THEEES. 19. Route. 199

The right hand portion of the temple consisted of a long Hall
(FL E)- with 10 columns (no longer standing), and of ﬁve rooms
behind, three larger and two summer, orlglnadly separated than
it. The sculptures of this part: are of the time of Ramses 1L, and
far infexiar to those of the central building and left hand Iranian
01" the sanctuary.

A ﬁnale :0 the N. of the temgle is a wamruwheel and spring with
same gum, trees, used as a watenngwplace for cattle. Passing this
we leave to the left the side of the Libyan mountains with we
Nacrepelis of Drab Abu’l Neggah, and continue ﬂireetly by the lower

path to the valley of the Tombs of the Kings.

Duh Abn‘l 1%:th is one of the oléesi cemeteries cf Thebes, anal
me treasures discovered by Mariette‘a excavations lave been of extru-
ordinwy value, but the lamb» are naw ﬁlled up and the traveller will
ﬁnd nothing unless he elevates for himself. {39mm of the 11th, 1'2th
and. 18th Dynmﬁes were discevered hex-e, and in one of them was the
mummy cf Qucm Amy-heap, whose precious ornaments are preserved in
the Gite}: Museum (V01. 1.! p. 3023. {n her time it was the custom to pay
more intention to the ﬁecorution of the dead body than to that of the
(“min The Necrupniis of Bran Abu‘l Ragga}: was 3. source 9! ylumler
from a very early clue. There are Papyrus legaﬂ documents, preserved
in London and Turin, which acquaint us with the pmceeéings taken
ngnins: :hieves, whe had rubbed the tombs at Elm}: Ahu‘l Neggah, and
those 0! the queens during the 20611 Dynascy.

20. Bibin el-Eumk. Tombs of the Kings.

The entrance to She valley of the Kinge‘ Tomba may be reached in
abaut V; hr. from the landing~place of the fun-y on the W. bank of the
Nile. by ﬁlm path indicated abeve via the temple of gurnah. The moun-
tain-int}; via sl—Asdsl‘f, more fatiguing though shorter, in belie:- followed
on the return.

We ante: this valley of the (lead by an old read of the Pharaohs.
Beyond a tacky ravine we reach an open space, whence two roads
diverge. That to the left leads to the Bibﬁn eE—Mulﬂk proper, visited
by all travellers; that to the rigbs to the W. cross-valley of the
gorge of ﬁne Kings’ Tomhs. The latm: route. describes a. wide curve
round the greater part of ﬁne Bibﬁn el-Mulﬁk anti leads past steey
ﬂags, on which hundreds of vultures perch in the afternoon, to two
Kings’ Tombs. We reach the valley of the Tomb of Al {Aral}. ’1‘mbet
elmKu-rad or Tomb of the Apes) by the route leading to the right
from the open space, or by a very difﬁcult path (my: recommended)
ever the mountain (between Nos. 8 and 9). —- Visitors whe are
pressed for time may content themselves with inspecting Tombs
N09, *9, ’11? ”‘17, *6, 8, and, i4; Cook’s tourists visit ﬁles. ’2, 6, 9,
H, 17, and lunch in Ne. w. A visie to the W: tombs [see p. 202)
will also be found interesting. The numbers have been inscrlbeii
on the entrances of the tombs by Sir Gardener Wilkinson. The name
'Bl‘bEn elnMulﬁk means ‘gates of the kings’ (bibén gal. of bib, the

gate). The inhabitants of Thebes anply the name «Lg Bab to every

ancient tomb.
Sis-abs tells of 40 lambs ‘worthy of a visjﬁ, it}: s:-
Page-264
290 Rome 19. THEBES. West Bank:

French Expedition mention 5.1, while at presant 25 am accessible,
to which a few more have quite recently been added. Pausanias,
Jillian, Heliodoms, Ammiaxms Marcellinus, and other ancient
anthem refer to them as the: Byringz: (sﬁprgysg) of Thebes, which
name 9.139 occurs in tho Greek inscriptions within the combat The
wimi ‘Syrinx‘ meant: ﬁrst. a shepllerﬁ’s pipe formed of longish weds?
than it came to mean i. hollow wastageg and thus was appliedto the
long rockvhewn massages ofBi‘bz‘m el—Mulﬂk.

Thane tombs ami the subjects raprasented in them requim some
words of explnnulon. The tombs which are in good condidon and M-
cessible are Nun. 1, 5:, 8, 3, 9, 15., ill, 15, 17; ﬁlm real. either contain only
the mama of a king, at am unsafc owing to snakes (my. No.7) or are
simple passages cut in the rock. Piar. and Arrangement Neal 1 and 2 simply
consist of a pisaage, a hall for llxe sarcaphagum and an inner room. (51' the
real: unly Nos, 9 ami 11 an: completad, In tho; ﬁrst the plan is most
clearly span: 1] three long balls, 2) a s uare hall, 8) ﬁrst smaller ball with
gillars, a) one or two inclined ublong all: or passages, 5) a. square room,

} a secand larger hall with pillars, the hall of tha sarcophagus, in the
comers of which are side-chambers, 4?} at the end anather square or
several oblong rooms or yaasagea. ——— The ﬁrst hall with pillars has also
a side‘chm‘her to the: right, as in Fog, Band 11; and with some “tint-ion, in
Eel 17. The roof of the second is supporzeé by 8 pillarsi and as in No, i?
may :Also have an ndgjoining mom on the left. From the plan of X0. (til we
conclude: that this tomb was kneaded for saveral persons, as there are
twe sarcophagus—halls. The tombs of the 13th D35. were arranged quite
differently from those of the 19th and 2031.. In tho»: a sloping passage
halls into the square «mophagus‘haﬂ, ami adjoining this is n eewnd hall
with pillars, the entrance to which is placed six feet above the groundl -
The eblvng roams usually contain nukes, which were beam in the stone
at four to 52;: feet {have the grouml, possibly im- thc kzeping of sacriﬁcial
vasscls‘ All the tombs slope dawnwazds into; the rock, exce tNoa. l! 2, 4-
&nd 14; in those of Bali I. (17) and of A6 we {Suﬁ a ﬂight o well-worked
steps an the entrance, while. in the other» the rleanent in made hy inclinad
planes, Although the general plan is the same in all, and CM diﬁerenoe
in size aesms to have depenﬂeel only on the mount of time sml money
which ml: Pharaoh was able to give to the wax-k, mm, in no similar
arrangement of lnaztiptions anti representations; in fact only a certain
general resemblance tan be observed, theugh the inscriptions vary not in
same. or even ln wax-dz, but only in quantity. The phyla is (man enig—
matinal and the lntemreﬂtinn of both the eigns and their manning
is extremely difﬁcult, The tollnwlng la a brief mount of the inscrip-
tion: and repreaentnticus. In ﬁlm ﬁrst plwa elm-e is out in the wall a
lung hymn to Rs in Amenthea or the lower won-la, which remnants the
74 farms of Ra with the invocation: ‘Praise be to RA, the Almighty !‘
Then it is said that the king knows the 75. forms of the god by name.
The wnrku of Ra are futile: glorified, amt his victories over hi: fneal
In front of this hymn than is usually represented an mtelone‘: hand
will: a serpent beside it nbtwe the dim, and an antelo 3’s head will) a
crocodile below. It is usually found in the 11m oblong all, as in N05. 2.
8, ll, 15 and 17. The texts are more or less injured or defective, and
it has been the task oflﬂl. Naville am! Lefébnx-a to coils.» and normal than.
— The Sun, will: wblch the. worship of thin Egy (inns ‘begnn wns conceived
by them in various forms, M we have seen ( ol. 1. . 155). Acton-ding
in one concepxlon, which is the prevailing one in El!) n elvlnlﬂk, he in
me goé Ila, who In the golden age of the Kay tiana ruled mm:- tlw earth; ha
is dead and dwella in Amentlxes -, Khepera is ugh: as the nnchangu‘ble being.
canal“: ln thu midst of ccntln‘asl chuge, representeﬁ in the funn of i

scaribeus 3. which therefore in placed in the am; gm»- ~ ﬂnnlly
Page-265
pm}. Abu'l Ncggah. THERE'S. :9. Route. 201

Amman-Ha. ia the lord and mater of the throne of the universe, the
living and. noting Bed of heaven. These three form a trinity which in
the deity of Biblsn el-Mulﬁk, and is worshipped in Amenthes, as we find
represented in every lamb. Here also Isis and Nephihys mourn far
the dead, and worship them who have become lla nf Aumnthea; for as
the pilgrimage of human life is only an image of the daily Mm yearly
ilgrlmage 0f the sun, so the elea-i king, who mace ruled over the land;
eazuénes like a lla of Amenthes, and every royal tomb in image of Amentltea

itsel .
The largest part a! all the representatimxs is mangled by the Descrip—

a:

lion bf Life in y La. ’l‘ua-t‘ or the depth of the gravel The

W
centre of this life is Ran the blessed, who is here alwayn called Alli—Rn,
is. the body 0f Ra. in opposition to his soul which dwells not in 'l‘usrt.
but in heaven. lie passes by in a boat, always accompanied by Sa and
Hakim. Sometimes he is followed by other gulls; he utiuuls in LL pavilion,
round which a serpent mile The godg oi @‘ua-i draw his buatl By
the side of this. we are generally shown these deities worshipping him,
and also Tum piercing with a. lance the sex-pent which resiats his hunt.
The serpent may be either good 01‘ evil. In N0. 8, Room V, all: Urmus"

serpent .v , and the ﬂex-1mm. ofiife are luaianecs of goml serpenta‘ Those

that place themselves before the boat are evil. They are called by
various names: Nehebka, Nelleb—Ashulwru, etc. Sometimes they are
rearing up in ccmlmt, sumetimes lying slotllfully coiled up, and mime»
times they appear with legs anti wings, and scattering ﬁre. The serpents
at the doors apparently only held the post ul' man, or éoorkeepers.
Besides these we ﬁnd menlilmeé a large, number- ui' other beings mm»
named with Tue-t.

As to the Hutton: represented in N09. ll and 1?, it need unly be said
that all are humbling themselves before 23, after all his enemies have
been conquered by Tum.

An Relive life prevails in l‘ua-t; there ia driving, aiuging, ﬁghting,
reaping, etc. it should bu noticed {hai the same reyresenﬁaiions of Afu-
Re are found in many ef the papyrus-rolls.

The Gods of (he Dead by whom the deceasell are intrmluced mic this
world are almnst all represented here. 3493: often it is thejackalheaded
Anubis that is invoked as gem of :he‘deall by Tsis and Nephthys in
favour 0f the éeceued. ‘he iniel‘nal Rather or Merse‘ihet also often
appears. The worship of Osiris gives way to that of the blessed Rm, but
“ill the king is represented as adoring him, usually over the door 0f tlm
hall at the sarcnphagus. That): and the 1100!: only occasionally appear.

Before the‘Kmy can enleg his last restin -place in peace, he must
ﬁrst be justiﬁed; and referring :0 this the 1‘! ill chapter of the Book Of
the Dead is usually found in the square room in fwnt ofthe sarcophagus-
hali, as in N0, 9, Vlll, and No. 2, IV. in No. 6' it is found on the left
of the tantrum,

The Manly Ceremom’ee connected with the klng‘a efﬁgy, in which
apparently his 90:: took yart, are most perfect in N0. 15, less well pre-
served in No. 17, and must abridged in Na, ll, in the passage leading
down from the ﬁrst hall of pillars.

The whole represents the Fortunes of file Dead. After AimRa and
with him ﬁlm. king have overcome the obstacles of evil, mu} he has justi-
ﬁed himself from all his aim, he enters into the Most Holy Place, the
'Impyream the highest heaven 1;:- ahude of the blessed, where the visible
wet-Id oi Amman-Ru. appears to much the Hurt 0f the blessed Ha. Here
the songs ofjoy and hymns of praise resouné, and Ammorrﬁa spreads
out his Wings like a mighty bird. The gods: move past in their barks.
the stats rise and set, the hours, the (lays, the years pass by. The king
is placei among the gods, he dwells amnng the Mars, anti the Divme
Comedy is ﬁnished.
Page-266
202 Route 20. TEEBES. Wm Bank.-

5.. West Valley 9f the Tomb: as ch: Kings.

The; W. “may of the Bibén cal—Mum}: shoa‘xd be visited im-
mediakely after Tembs No. 9, 11, and 17 by those who are pressed
for time. The ﬁrst tomb here is that c! Amonhotep m.

(O Q \“2‘7 H (a ﬁ 3-2112. T T); discovexad by the French

Expedition. We enter from the “M; the tomb 30m bendg at a right

angle towards the N., but ﬁnally resumes the direction from W. to E.
The three ﬁrst plunges have either bum deatruyed n;- were never
completed. The way :0 tbs fourth aroma a deep trench. which is not
easily creased without a ladder. It contains
several represemaﬁons of the meeytiml of tin:
king by the gods. Thu god» am nudging mm
49>. NW MW wvww
—»~m A‘NM M. are puaring purl—
iying water over the hands of the ﬂag. The coun-
ﬁnances ire all well-formed and even gentle
and the, comuriug is unuauany well-prcaexved,
but the face 05' the Pharaoh has everywhere been
obliterated, as his sucesswr, Amenhmep IV. Khu-
en—atcn (p. 23), dismuxagud the worship of Am
men, which Amenhotep 1}}. favoured. Some of
ﬁhe piceures have been only unmixed in, and the
ﬂuid ﬁlvided inito aquares. l’ortions (If the Bonk

   
 
   
   
    

J'

x
{If the Dead are painted in “i
tea upan emcee. The sar— §
cophagus has been broken; Q
and baaidc it lie human GE
bones (no skim), perhaps “WW“ "W““IL—J

 

beionging in the kin¥5whose

mummy was nut ound in the shaft of D9: el-baigri. Fragments of the
cofﬁn of Amer-.hetep EL, found in this tomb, are um! in ma museum as
G’fzek. The Aurcmcmical Ceilmy—pafnlinm in the chamber with the saw
cophag'as sre noﬁeworthy. The :hambers beyona this mom have 110 in-
scriphona and are fun of hate.

The sewud tomb, called by the Arabs Turbei el—Kurad (Tomb
0f the Apes) is in a; very retired. spot, Ii. belongs to At

(QWQQQW’E‘)? (08%;)

the 18th Dynasty.

A staircase descends to an apartment, with coloured inscriptions, an?!
containing mt. magniﬁcent sarcophagus. To the right is a gun-trait oi the.
king. with the aerpenbeaepsre and birds, and beside him i! that of his
wife, whose name, like she king‘s, is scratahed out wherever it occurs.
To: the left are Swelva Mex-ed was, with éoublc namas. The king before
the dnrbgreen Osiris. and again before the godéess Mersekhet, who Fern

 

, a priest-king of

forms We ‘xxiui’ (see above) and 1:13am ﬁlm gym‘hnl ni' iifr: in his
mouth; four white-clad genii of £93m, aiming opposite each other in
pairs, Kabsenuf and “Fannie! with the cream of Upper Egypt Q,

&
Amaei uni Hapﬁ with that of Lower Egypt E]. In a boat :18;de El
. '
Page-267
Tombs afﬁne Kings. T-HEBES. 20. Route. 203

are Earmschig, Tum, lord of An (Heliopoiin) Shu, Tefnut, Seb, Kué,
,Uairin. Isis. and Horus. Behind tbs boas is ﬁephlhya. Adaoining are
sepulcbrai inscripzians.

0n the steep cliff near this tomb is a mini-d hut; in whiah aCoPtic
hermit is 53.541 1.0 have sought a retreat from 1.1m world. Here, as
shewhera in the Biban el-Mulﬁk, names have been inscribed by
Egyptian scribes, Greek traveIlBrs , and anchoretic Christians. The
still undiscovered Tnmbs 0f the Kings a,‘ the 18th Dynasty {Amenhw
mp 11., Tutmoa IV., and Horns) wili perhaps (me day be found in
in. this W. valley.

2). East Valley (:3 the tombs of the Kings.

The E. valley, usually the ﬁrst visited, contains the tombs of
kings of the 191.11 am}. 20:11 Dynnsﬁel. On the ri in. (W. of the path:

3 ) _
I ”ft—ﬂ {"1 ‘ 6
Na. 1. G) O Q a I L} an] E)
”WK/‘5 a
Ramses VII. '

1. Chamber. To the. left the king sacriﬁces to Ra—Harmac’hia or is
being greeted as justiﬁed; to Qhe right he maritime to Ptah-Sakar-~
Osius, emhronea as the beneﬂcent gaa of the deey, who addresses {be
king: ‘Thy name remains fresh, awarding to the judgment of Sukm‘
Osiris, while. thy body rests in the cofﬁn. But my heart appears daily
in thy éisa‘. The union of the Ring with the sun is indicaﬁed by these
words. To the left is a boas with a disc, round. which a aerpent winds,

and two companions and? symbols of ‘that greaé god Khnum‘;

above: worshipping ﬂguras and serpenm rearing thmnaalves aloft. To
the. right. a seven ’ne inscription to the goddeés of the 41156;» and of the
tomb. To the left, 18 ﬁgures who ‘extol Ra, bewitch the serpent Apep
(Apophia)1 and yrenent “mi: aacriﬂces‘; beneath in the boat of the god,
who sits in a. tent, round which a serpent winds; Hakim and S; appear
as his companions hex-e, as in numerous azher paintings. Four ii urea,
preceded by a. guidt:7 drag the boat; and usher gods accompany it. Adjacent
are tbs: words: ‘t-‘nis great god travelling on the path of ma deep, and
£312 goda of the deep drawing him‘. Beneath are about a score of
recumbent or felterad enemies. The inscription runs: "rum ac“
compliahing a noble deed; bringing destruction upon his enemies; I
vindicate my father Ra. against you‘, etc. To the right are curious ﬁgures,
9 serpeuiﬂ, 7 geuii with bulis‘-heudu, anﬁ numerous others. standing,
reclining, and encloged with serpents as in a frame; also ﬁve women with
‘arms hanging down, on the sign ?, the meaning of which is still
undetermined. — In the corner of Know I, the high-priest, clad in
a panther-skin. Gﬂ’ers upon an altar a sacriﬁce is Osiris. Below the we!
the godﬁeeses Hebenz and Bax with vultures‘ or serpents‘ heme, spread
their protecting wings over tile king‘s can-touches. — 11. Chamber, cun-
taining the sarcophagus. To the. rigln’: and le of the entrance are
represented thg tutelary dgitiaa of the dam, Ur 1m. with a ﬂower, and
Sekhet Bast, who besmwa ‘the aim-mien of life‘. On the left wall:
Various scenes 0! worship of Osiris, who am ears an a. mummy, or lies
in his coﬁﬁn, or is represented as 2116 Body of .a. with the head of abull
or of a crocodile. Benemh are four worshippers, than Osiris and Nephthys,
tearing their hair as a sign of grid} and than gods with heads of animals
or men. 02 the right wall are other curious ﬁgures: the worship of the
nun-god with a ram’a head, Tubman and. Se!) worehippiug Osiris, who
stands beneath an awning. Tum destroying 1m crannies with a lance.
An ,ofﬁcer of #21036 zppointeﬁ So bind the worthless (enemies) may 3130
be, disﬁuguished. The emits: mom is surmundeé with a ‘Grdax £531,011!“
Page-268
204 Rome ‘20.

capti vee

w 11! Ohm“-
aygeais before Osiris. — A kins of standard composed ui‘ ihe vaiiuus
signs oi‘ power and pmleetiuu; sacx‘ihﬂil ialuu- , boat With WV" 515’s»
in, the midst of which stands a pig. w GA Greek Imm'pim proves that
the tomb was known and accessible in Greek times.

Mb Rim)

 

“ME
‘4:

”-w-m...“m....,_,.J23..-..---------.,L‘_,.-_----_—,.M.._...J'u”

E!

m

N

r-\.....,.________W_e-w-wr\e_t

,
,
x
x

P:
L3

;

x

x

x

x

x

,

x

x

g

,
,
'3

x

g

r

,

x

i

E

TEEBE S. West Baﬁk :

. a 0n the rear-wall is the king and the disc 92‘ the sun.

The king, bearing the symbol of truth on his kind

 

mam

what Ia: gei- tomb efﬁamseslv. To the right,
before the entrance, is a. Coptic inscription
with a cross em! a corpuient bishop :sising
his arms in prayer. Above the door are Isis
and Nephihys, worshipping the solar disc

 

with Khnum and

To the left, in the Fir-55' Corridor appear the
king worehippingp Hermseiiie, anﬁ the targe sa-
lar c,diac (Vol. 1., 133} Behind, in goes! pre-
servation, begins ihe ‘Book of the praise of Ra
in Amenihes‘ {45 lines). The continuation of this
inscription in the second ear-rider end on the
right wail of the ﬁxsi wrridur is not so weil
preserved The Second Corridor contains two
o'her inscriptions: ‘Wurship of the infernal
gods, when Ba parishes in life , the other, ‘0
R3, came to thy son. Above are numerous
demons In ihe Third C‘owi‘dm‘ are serpents and.
praying men ami women, like these in Tomb i
Farther on are nther worshippers, before the cof-
ﬁn and the ram s—headed Kimmy: (Kile ph), and
then an iascripiion: ‘(2 yeg 33:19 of the deep and
of we mm!) ofAmenthes, who guard the diam-5‘ ,
etc. RaomIV, a emailei square apartment, has
an inscripiiuu from Olimpia“; 123»12.5 and 1'27 a]
ﬂu! ﬂank of the Dam)? when contain the Juliﬂ-
may!) of the Dead Room V the mam chamber:
Beat of Afu-Ra, who alandﬁ beneath s canopy,
encircled by a serpent; in front 13 ihe king, knee}-

iug, with the aym‘hol of truth 9;: in his Emmi,
h

Keksu anti Se also apnea: in i. eat. The set
scripting: runs: ‘Thus this great god traverses the
path of the deep‘. (The god is uniformly named

99?

, ihc Limbs 01- rather ‘hs Eady 0] Ba, in

these inscriytious ) Further ﬂown is Ennis, with
ﬁne words, ”The deed ni' Roms for his Father;
he makes him noble; he reeves-sis him”. Oppo-
site is an exactly eimiisv representation, exceg‘:
ghee Home is repmced by Tum wish a lance in
front of the tailed Ape}; serpent whﬂ e the in<
scription runs: ‘The deed of Tum for Rs ior
he made me god noble, uniting Ibis enrmy‘. Tile
bait wiih Afu Ra ”Ed the
Page-269
Tombs of 119 Kings. 1131mm. 2F.Rouie. 205

victory, for the Enemies are bound or lie upon the ground. — Beneath
the, roof lzxtzvnxia the double body of Nut apparently supported 01: the:
left by 82111 The visitor should observe the constellations on the body
(11‘ the goidess of the skyi thg demons of the oonsteliaﬁons, the three
crowdiles (ona sitting on the back of auethnr) .1116 farther down the tables
of the hours. The goddesses of the hours have diam: tad (too broad) faces
The roof is vaulted. The sarcophagus is 10 ft. long, 8 ft. broad and
7%: ft» high, auui is adurneﬁ with renreseutntions. In the next corridor
are insrﬁptinns: ‘0 ye gods of the. «Kep’ and ‘Doorkeeyers 0f the tomb",

etc. Then follows a representation of the boat of Khnum above the double
lion To the left of £115 praying king are the worés "May the comxug in and
the going (111th: blesssd‘, meaning a. similar Christian wish. In the roam

behind is a representation of the mummy of the king ,repcatexi 17

and then 23 times; finally comes a bier, beneath which stand canopi.
A mpresentmiun of the tomb of Ramses IV., giving the dimensions.
occurs in one of the papyri in the museum at Turin, published by
Lepsius.
No, 3, to the left of the path, is ﬁlled with rubbish; but it is
known to have balnngsd to another Ramses.

No 4.1mm of Ramses X11131: according to Msspsro Ram-

iéxi‘isimm 11w!

Tins tomb is not quid: ﬁnished. Even in the

tin drawings upon the stucco. most of which. howev ', has 1112211 51111111221511
away. To the right and left the king sacriﬁces to the gm] of the wind
who has four rams heads to the aim-gm, and to Hersekhet is the
last: chamber is a wide ana éeep shaft, in which perhaps cofﬁns still am
to be found theugh pw‘bmhly already plundered by tbs fellahin In the
Second Corridor, as in many other tombs, above ground are niches
sunk in ‘be rock, and gsnsmlly bearing a long series of gods or 11811101111
They served probably as degasiiox’ias for vessels? canopi, etc

No.5 farther on to tin; left is 11 hole without inscription.

(asltimlmn: )(ﬁfluhﬂ

Ramses IX. (according to Maspsro Ramses X. , a ﬁnely executed.
tomb. Befare the door is the disc, with the H 11g 011 both sides
worshipping it. Behind the latter are Isis and Nephthys, who 3va
claim ‘Praise be to this god when he comes forth from his mother,
to lighten the earth with his beams’.

In? 01139611 in which Lhé: king stands before Eta-Hummus sud
Osiris. ~— 6. Inscription from the 125th chapmr of the Book of the
Dam. — 6. Chapel, with the king standing before Amman and the
goddess Mcrsekhet, tie. the subterranean Rather and Hecate. ~—
d. W’nrshipyers with hands of 321631313 and bulls. The scattered
stones in they side—chambets are a seriuus 11111111311123 to the visitcr.
—— 111 Chamber 11., at the entrance :2, is $315 large serpent, rearing
itself, with ﬁhewords ‘0 than great serpent in the tomb, wine there
watchast the door of him who dwells there, that he ﬁle not- escape
his watchaxs in the darkness‘. At ,l' is another serpent? with the
address ‘0 ye serpents in the hidden plate-s, who wateh the gates of
Page-270
205 Route 20.

THERES. West Bank :

Osiris“. In the niches am represented gods with curious names (sag.
‘the great cat’). m At 9 is a ﬁne ﬁgure of tha king with an in-

   

VI

 

Behind ch: seated Osiris appears tbs god Khunm.

scripﬁcn containing the chapter on the
Ernering of the Great House. Thereafter
the king appears again, and at his head
Hebent, of whom it is said that she be—

smws the hingéorxx of Rs in 1% iﬁ,

is. the city of the thousand gatesthavers
in the guise of a promoting vulture.
Farther on we observe the king praying
before Khunsn, “he who is beautifully
united with Sim, separating the earth
from heaven, who raises himself millions
(of miles?) hhave the ground, Sim great
god, who has yowerﬁd wings, and who
dwells in the ﬁre-pool in Arms: of Mem-
phis’. This god says Mr tha paying king,
‘1 give that; my dignity, my Hiaﬁma, my
seat, my throne upon earth, to became a
shadow in the Amanthes’; And farther on
‘1 give thy soul to heaven, but thy body

‘k a
to the deep for evar’. Above are
m

goddessss with yecuﬁar names. ~~~~~~ To
the right {h} are ssr'pents, Osiris~ﬂgmes,
veilaé forms, etc., before Afar—Ra. Them
are also symbolic rigns and the annihi—

lated soul § 2% , The repairma—

tatiou of Osiris in his Seersts is vary re»
marku‘ble: Isis and Nephrhys band ova:
the moon—shaped Osiris—mummy, above»
which ﬂoats the disc. Under the moi are
rabies of the hours. -- A: III wa again
see the warring serpents m 1116 right and
tuft, -~ 1:. Tha king "with the sun-dim
warships before seated deities bearing
swords, Horus, Benti {dogdhsaderl} ayes,
ademon with heads of Seth and Horns
and even limbs of Osiris. Baneuh is she
beat of Khnum1 with $3, Aphem, em,
and. some curious symbois. — 3'. Demon

with in his hand; oéhers with knives.
p. The king
Page-271
Tombs amt Kings. THEEES. 20. Rome. 207

hands the symbol of truth to Fish, ‘tbe lord of haven, the
ing of the north and the south, with the beautiful counte-
nance’, in front of whom is a small ﬁgure‘of the goddess Ms.
W o. The biaek mummy of the king iies stretcheci out over a
constellation. The disc and scarabaus ﬂoat above it. — l. The
beck—view of e men with extended arme and logs, eight times
royeateﬂ. M AC m animate a host gliding over the coils of the

snake m, with the somehow»; and. the two Uzeueyes ﬂ, and

in front of ii: a. series of serpents being killed with poisoned
arrows. --~ At n are four ﬁgures hem backwards, taking the seed. in
their mouths, and spitting it out as a young thilii. Beneath is a
border of bound enemies anti, under the roof 3 number of persons
with no inscription. -- IV., defaced except at s, where a priest,
clad in a panther-skin, sacriﬂcos before a stunaerd. m V. is com—
ylstely destroyed. m VI. Disc with worshipers. The refrain of
the inscription here is ‘Ah, I have penetrated into the deep , and
the enemies of Osiris are destroyed’. Room VII, with much de—
faced astronomical pictures, in all probability represented heaven,
the Holy of Home. The rinsed entered it after lie had overcome the
various obstacles and had been justified. The 125th chapter of the
book of the Dead, relating to the justiﬁcation, must have (meow
pied Room V. Above the entrance of Room 'VII , the disc with
Khnum is worshiypetl by the Bentiwapss, am} under the roof stretches
the long double body of Not, the godaess of heaven.

Opposite, on the right side of the path, is Tomb ’4", half ﬁileti up
with rubbish. Visitors are warned against the snakes in this tomb.
This isrge and specious tomb, difﬁcult of access, belonged to

omit) (stow W...

cofﬁn of Ramses II. was found in the shaft ofDéz elm'bahzi in 1881-,
and the remarkable mummy of a man over eighty years old was
unrollsd. Papyrus—rolls new in London and Liverpool describe the
plundering of this tomb {see p. i993.

Ra. 8.‘lios in a side-gorge, a little to the right of the path. Hear
it, to the left, is a rock with hieroglyphic inscriytions, preserving
for us the names of several of the writers. This tomb belongs to

(hiifie) (oofﬁi

supposed Pharaoh of Seriytnie, who endeavoured to hinder ﬁre
Exoous of the Children of Israel, and is said to hero been dmwxmi
in the Red Sea.

Above the entrance are Isis and Nephthys, warshipying the disc

with Khnum and 8.13 the adjoining inscription, Earmeohis and

Osiris grant the deceased a seat in Amenthes. — I. Corridor:
to the left, a. The king before Harmeohis. The form r wears the

 

 

Herenpteh 1., the
Page-272
208 some 2.9 THEBES. Wm Bani; :

high fatter-grown :1 , ‘he praises ia, he extoia ﬂarmachis’; the

latter been; €120 scaptre 3 anti =¥ in his harms, and says ‘I give

thee the hsginning 03‘ Ra“. Farther 011(5) 15 an inscription con-
taining the KEmail". of the praisc of Ra and 0f Tami in Ammthes’.
This rubria occurs only here and in the

_q_ ___________________ tomb of Teti II. ; it is followed by the text

. 7L3 ‘1 of the Hakennu (praising), cantinued at c

_, on the right in tolerable preservation. This

{3" ,3 B: is the most imyortant inscxipﬁon in the
"'—" E Tombs of the Kings, and M £3 hate more
’ pal-feet than in N0. 6. Beneath the roof

are the. gawk-5585 Hebem, with the witure’s
ham], and Uzi, with the snake‘s head, 01-
tanding their wings; mm- ﬁw cmmuches of
the king. —— H. (i, in the mamas are gods
anti demons; beneath is the 51ml of Rs,
a mystic form, also frequently Iepresomed
as a talisman. The side 1?, to the right, is
destroyed. Then above, my Hm left, are
other gods, with the grant cat beneath. At

  

IV

" s
i

a
3‘ . .
'x__r"*‘ -....._‘.‘

a.
E1

&

4 f and 9 appears Anubis, god of bombs, and

a; before him Isis or Nephthys. The goddess

I ; speaks: ‘I come, I extend my protection
;' g to thee, I give thee bra-3th for my nostrils

and the north wind which pmceeds from
Turn, and: I praise thea‘. At h three gads

are represwéed WEE: zhrea 01060611165 below (and the Has-trash
Em 5%? )3 At a and k is an inampﬁon, ‘A prayer to this

grea<>t gori :14)? Elm wmb‘ --- 111.1, Boat of Am Ra. (ﬂmih of Be), in
which are 311mm and Seth (Typhon); beside it, the snaka Nohebka,
with three heads, four lags, two wings, em, and othex gods, apps.-
renﬂy sidamaﬁ. — At m, Beat of Afu—Ra, with Apheru, Horheban,
Nehes, H131? and ether goés. The inscripﬁan is ‘Ho approzches
hither, this 33mm. gm, while they draw him u: this tomb“. Above

are the standards? of the cycle of the aims gods, m which belong

Khepm, Sh“; Tafnut, Seb, Nut, Osiris, 13157 Nephﬂxys, and Met“
mum, —- IV. is 3. Email mmwcham‘ben At 7'», t0 the left, the king
is raceivw M the {imam-x5 Amsm Tunmmvt‘, Anubis. ﬁber—Kalb,
isis, Neizh, (ma an, the right, Hapi, Kebsenm‘, Anubis. 310:, ﬁeph-
lbw, and SEEK. Balaw 15 Anubis, with Tuammef befsre him; to
the right an Hﬂﬂm, Mm Kebsenm‘ harms himA ... V Large ckgnmbar.
Page-273
Tombs of ihe Kings. THEBES. 20. Route. 209

The pillars usualiy hear rayrasemaﬁnns of the king standing bafore
a gut}, sacriﬁcing in him, worshipning him, being tpuaheﬂ by him

with the symbol %. etc. To the right, M. o, are two kinds of

serpents in ponds, ﬁrst the Urmus-sernantsé‘é :§a Big A8
W? G
mm. and second the serpents of life ® Hi Ankhtu. To the

mm at. p? is a inng raw 0f persons (Hashing)i worshiyning the god of
the antler—warm. 0n the rear—wall, at q, where share is a descend—
ing passage, are representations at" a dcuble shrine and of this king
worshipping Osiris, with the inscription: ‘Ee is surrendereﬁ t0 the
lord to all etsrnity‘. Thaw are no inscn’ptions in the passage, as
the: tomb was navel: completed. ...... A“ is an inscription: ‘They
gaze at the View of Ra, they enter following him’, etc. To the right
is the host of Airs—Ra: ‘this grant god being drum by the gods

\

(if this deep“. Above aria many ﬁgurem lixs 'i.e.tha‘bsarers

of the Main“, etc., a largs ssi’pent, and other forms, of which the
last is ‘tha leader in his corner, who commands men in the under-
world’. At 5, in the rear wall , m the left, is the boat or Ara-Ra,
with Hekan and $3. Throughout the chamber are inscriptions from
the Am guat, tbs Book of the Unix-world. — The side—chamber V!
has ()1in a, few painﬁngs in a recess in the 13ft wall.

’“mi’ioiiiiiiioiimiciiiiW?“

This tomb was named by the French Expedition La. Tombed a
Métempsychosa and by British scholars, following the groundless
traditions of the Romans, the Tomb of Memmm. This largs :cmb
is characterized by an abunaance of mystic reprosentations ami inn
scriptiens, of which, however, none are executed in a good style.
(Septic and Greek inscriptions are most numerous in this tomb;
among- them one to tha effect that ‘iiermogenas or" Anus; has seen
and admired the Syringes; hm this tzamh of Mamnon, site: he had
nxuminad it, he more than mimirnd’ (oraiimimd more than the others,
éﬁepsﬁuﬁnma). — It is a remarkable fact that ﬁne cartonchas of
Ramses VI. are superimposed upon others, which either represent the
earlisr name of Ramses V1,, or probably of his predecessur Ramses V.
Before the risers are representations like those before No. 8. m
- I. To the right is the hing'before Earmachis, to the left, before Osiris,
then the serpent Apep, demons with heads of bulls anti serpents,
chained captives, etc. —— H. Representation like those in Room 1!. of
No.8: ‘t-he helriu of the deep’, ’Che bearars ofthe cord in the ﬁelds niche
daap’, 9112.111 “banal with step; appears Osiris, and on ihe sceps ara
men with aguida. Almvn 15 aboxt nut. of with h an 'ape driving Hui;
Bunuxnxx 5 Upper Egypt '
Page-274
210 Ram 20. THEEES. West Bank:

£393? Another we stands in front ofthe boat, and a third appmanhes

wish an axe, perhaps to lend emphasis to the expulsion of the yig.
- ’10 the right are lung inacriyiitms and
black farm: @tanding on their heads (the
annihilated) befom Khnum, Comic in"
scrimim. -~ HI. Corridor, m the Rafa. The:

beaten of the man, the {anther ofMa.

or the ‘txuihfui’, ané beneath, the boat
with two attendants, Vthen a bearer of the

390mm , ml bauide him gnictuxas of iim

gods '1‘qu Sui), Sim, Hut, and He: shef.
Benamb is the ‘ltmi. of sutisfacaiou’ Nab
fut (17;, ‘thn chosen who harvest the grain
in the ﬁelds at the under—world', and. the

‘bearers of the sickla’ 2 Banks: on

are the beamre of tim meaaming-iims thaw:
measure length ami breadth, mad the;
bearers of a line that mansuws depth. At
this paint is a Greek inscription. which
can Simmeiy be anterior to Comte .tine the
Great: Nemzipmz Nemopwﬁievhc 6 Min-n96“
mm; 1489mm ('9) Ahbmau eiiﬁw éﬁméw
imaa. I, Nectarius of Nicamedia , the
august camoiicus (chief of the excbeqner)
i of Egyyt} saw mad ail ired this’. Nan is a.
boat, in from of whim is a band 0f twelve
‘sceptrewbea‘rem in Amenthas’, and four
mummymi‘orms. min, to the right: 419w
feat-ail enemies, hesiée which! are the sun‘s
disc and serpent. Here also is remasenmd
3 tin) dwble lion 0f aim horizon Aker, with
1 human face, and. above him the disc and
n

    

scarabama; and Seth bending down upon
him; Emerging from ﬁhe Aim, to ﬂag right
ii are Sebti, Ami (sic) and Turn; to she left

‘5:

Tefnut, Nut, Isis, am! Nephthys. -— Nan
follnws a long inscripﬁan, than chained
.1! J captivaa standing on their heads, beside

whom is a cit—headed god Maufﬁ. The

captives are indicaied as the groaning, the

weeping, the shrieking, and ﬂu» lamenting

Beneath i5 Osiris in his Sacrets, as in No. 6, II. The ceiling, from

the thud curridm to the: that main changbfgi with fun )iiiarsi is
Page-275
Tombs am Kings. THERES. 20. Route. 231

occupiad by a continuous reyresentation of the vault of Maven,
embraced by the long sxtended ﬁgurs of Nut, with the twelve hours
of tha day (Q) and those of the night [K] At the and «my two can
lestial charts, and tables of the culmination of stars during the
hours of night, fxom fortnight to fortnight throughout the year. (Si—
milar tables are found in Tomb 6.) The results are arranged on the
different parts of a human ﬁgure. Biol, this French astronomer,
[mail these tables in calculating the data of their formation. — IV,
First small antechambar. To the left: picture of the serpent Kheti,
darting ﬁre against ﬂattered forms; demons stand upon it. In the
sucrmd row are persons ‘bathing and swimming’ in Nun, 5.2. the
comm, and also souls praying. To the right: Disc, serpant, and at
the left angle a autism; representation of 53?); than (in the left
angle) the serpent rearing up, and ‘this great god’ in ithyphallic ze—
presentation. I". First Room with Pillars, cansidera‘nly deeper than
the yréceding. In the corner to the ﬁght, the boat 01' the sun upon
the hands (If Nut; above the door [twimﬂ Osiris and the king nﬂ'er—
ing sacriﬁce. Under the roof, Nut. —— The bodies of two gigantic
winged sexpenta with crowns stretch hanca down into the following
room; to the 18ft is Hebent, with the double crowm to the right,
Mersekhat, yrincsss of Amnnthes, with tiny crown of Lewer Egyyt.
—- VI. and VIE. are two farther corridors. The) representations in
the» former age so mystic as to defy description. The latter con-
tains gods, serpents, beats, the moon Q, and, above the door, a
hitherto unexplained ﬁgum. — V111, Second small autechambar,
with inscriptions: the king befom MatF the goddess of Truth, and
Chap. 12:”) of the Back of the Dead. ——-—- ‘IX. Ream, a large ball; of
which the corner pillars remain unﬁnished. The sarcophagus placed
in the centre is destruyed. 0n the pillars appears the king praying
to various gods. This has been called the Hali of Antronamy, ion
account of the representations an the mm", which have been executed
with the greatest skill and with incredible labour and tumble. We
here see, twice, the goddess Nut, with stars and gods, who sail in
boats on the lake of the heavens: The deities of the hours also
appaar, with curious symbols beside them. Next the entrance is the
sky by day, towards tha back wall, the sky by night. The imagi—
nation of the artist who designed this ceiling-painting was licen-
ticus, as the immodest ropmseiitations in the 162R angle indicate.
0:: ths long wall to the right; n'bovt: , are the Hoary, looking
behind tham, and each casting on the one preceding a may from
the disc on her head. Then follow the most varied forms of
the light—god, the solar—disc, the stars, em; and ﬁnally an inter-

esting *Repmsentation of the: boatof‘die a, accompanied by Khapm

and Tum, being drawn on the waters of Nun or the celestial ocean
over the eastern Aker or lion of the horizon, and sinking from the
western, being received by Tatunen. The Arabsggll 1;th the £33
Page-276
‘212 Rouse 20. THEEES. Wm Bank:

or Cataract. The remaining ﬁgures are repetitions of those seen
elsewhere. 01: ﬁhe left wall the paintings representing the puniehm
men: of enemies and evil-duets are particulariy interesting. In the
heel: roam, the names of the hours appear in the eiﬁe; straight in
from are the sun’s disc and a divine ﬁgure. The hm: is helﬂ by a
form, beside which the king sits, saying: ‘I’raise he to Aurmrmrl—Ra3
Harmachis, to the great ﬁre—disc, tn the light-gen Khepm in the
boat of Sen, Tum, when he parishes, in the beloved soul of heaven,
the venerable Sekhem, who there causes fruitfulness’t

No 10 destroyed The stucco has been torn from the wane
and the shaft ﬁlled with rubbish It belongs to a. king Amonmuee,
whose position in the 19th Dynasty is uncertain. It is, however,
certain chat. he preceded Ramses 111.,{01- ihe tomb 0f the ietter (see
below) has had he curve in the right. to amid impinging upon this

tomb of Amonmeees.
Hwiw, (ii (133%)

/ M

“No. 11. “9'7 53 P tit“
Ramses III. This imposing tomb, 1131111113; milled ‘B’rucc’e Tnmb’ or
‘The Runner’s Tomh', owes in; existence to the lavish builder of
Mmiinet Hahn (p. 172). Inferior' in size only to No.17 and No.14
this tomb with the former of {,hese must deserves careful examin-
aﬁcn. The style of the sculptures is not- the best, but the variety
and richness of the representations are unexcellec‘l. This $011.1}; pee"
sessee a unique peculiarity in the ten side-chambers, one on each
side of the ﬁrst corridor, and fan: on each side of the second corridor.

Above ehe deer appear Isis and Nephihys preying on their knees
to the sun—disc. as at No. B. At; the enhance here the eerienche
of Ramses III. has been nhiseleé ever that of his predeceesox Seri-

nekht (QTlﬁH )3, whe rests in Tomb No Mr 9. 215). At each

side is e piller,l with a bull s heeé' 1n hes—relief at the hop. — I. (to
the left): pthe king before Iiarmechis- then the ‘Beoi: of the extoll—
ing 01' Ba in Amenthee’; in peer preservation. Of the two sine-
chambers in this corridor, mat. to the lefﬁ (No. l) is ﬁevoieli to the
Festival. Oxen are being slaughtered, their flash cut in pieces. nmi
thmwn into cauldrons. A servant is blowing the ﬁre, while another
wields a ladle. A second group attends to the wine. All kinds of
enables, cakes, and implements are at hand, and the cooks are busy.
Two Planners enliven the scene with their performances. In sidem
chamher Na. ‘2 (to the right) a dhehebiyeh in full sail is ascending
hhe Nile, and another. with sweeps, is descenﬁing it. —-— II. In the
recesses is 11 iong series of (lemons including the ‘greai. cat’, the
”lamenting 0116’, with hair hanging down eie To the right, ihc

 

 

f A large number «if the pictureg and inscriptions in this tomb have
been pnbm ed by Champoliien in him Noziees (vol. 11 , 'pp 1200931}. ~1he
rest by Lefébure in his Hngéea Buvauz (vol II) .
Page-277
Tomb of the Kinya‘ THEEES.

20. Route. 213

wicked ofAmemhes, with arms; zied together, Eight side-chambers
adjoin this hall. No. 3 (to tha heft) is dadicatad ’00 the gods of

harvest, the inundation, riches,
and food, who are represented in
human guise with an an: of corn
on their heads, but in the second
row, also as serpents. N0. 4 (10
the right) is the royal Armour-g or
Arsenal. Sacreé slvanuinrds, bows,
arrows, huge awards, helmets,
scourges, shirts of mail, etc, are
here myresented, and am peculi-
aﬂy interesting and instructive
on accmmt of the admimme pram
sermtion of the colours. To the
right of the door and. on the same
wail is tha black cow Hasi, from
the N. basin, Min}, to lha 162‘: the
black bul} than the S. basin,
with a red caparison. No. 5 {to
the leﬁ]: ‘May tha Massed king
by thin gaod gm} receive a“ pure
ami ~bewtiful things‘. And in
fact all kinds of things are re—
presented as being presented, A
man [the Nike) beam ﬂowers, a
woman {Am the northern Hano-
poﬁs) brings ﬂowers, fruit, ana
partridges, Ta-mehi (an arm of
the Nile) brings ﬂowars and fruit,
Sekhet (the ﬁelds) plants and
sheaves, a man fruit, a woman
(533's) gaese, another woman
ducks and sheaves, Memphis,
sheaves am} Emily, Nina other di—
stricts besides the Nile bring their
province to the king. A kimi of
list of names or domains is hers
pressnted to 115‘ Four gods of
wealth are also here depicted:
Hapi, Hu, Ba}, and Zefa, each with

on his head, N0: 6, to 13210

right, Domestic Fumiiun: of the
king : jars, yets, baskets with the

        
 

3

“WWW,

 

royal 8mm; bottles, trinkets, bows, the panther—skin worn by the

Pharaoh as highwyﬁest, couches ascended by gte

headvrests
Page-278
214 Rome 20. THEEES. West Bank:

, and sofas of great beauty and splendour. N9. 7, m Hm left,

the yellow bull {Mnevis'} standing and the black bull (Apis) lying,
both richly adorned. Alsa two sex-pants, one with the crown 0f Up“
per Egypt, tbs other with the; crown of Lower Egyyt, At No. 8 (to
the right) a landscape is rayresenwé, 0n the banks of the Nile, with
men ploughing. sewing, and mowing. Other men an ﬁlling the

gramm'n‘as IQ” the celnseiai deities approach, and the boat of the

sunngod unpears on the horizcn. At No. 9 (to tho left), are two
Ear-pens, one, to the left, before Anhnr ami Hurmashis, the other,
tn the right, before Shu and Tum, with the inscription ‘ihese are
the two ﬁngers wim play to the infernal deities’. By the door is 8136
refrain of ihe song thny are singing: ‘iteceivo the Masai hing
Ramses’. No~ 10, to the right, is the. Osiris 121mm, in which Osiris,
with whom the king is new unmet}, appears under 12 different
forms and names. — III. The Pharaoh offering to Tum and Ptah,
on tlm leﬁ, and to PtahaSokaImOsiris in a cofﬁn, to the right. In
the right corner, Osiris, lord oi‘the unéernworld. Towards Room iv,
the king surrendering the symbols 05‘ his power to Anubis. The
taint: hare makes a slight bend to the right in order to avoid the
adjoining tomb a! Amonmeses (p.212). -— I V. A: the entrmce are
prayers to the inmmai deities, and two-heatied and three-headeti
serpents, etc. In this recesses, Klmpm. w V. The king sumding Rm-
fore gods. — "1. Chamber with two pillars Serpents and ﬁgures
bearing symbols. bearers of Ann: {56 yams), and, to the left,
bearers of Nenmrh. In tbs lsft comer are representatives of the
four races (1). 219:} subject In Pharaoh. conducmil by Hans. This
same subject appears also in Tomb 27

:EE ' Tmahu, wit h painted bean-(15.1} I Amn, yellow
light brown (Libysns). 1 (Ssmites)

E Ea l Nehesu black ' new dark
l I (Negroes) :5 255 1 (ngpﬁma)
VII. [much blackened Lby time}. A: the entranca, Neill: am}
Salk; to the right, the king with one hand ‘grasped by Harmachis,
before whom he stands, while he stretchas the other to Them, re—
presented as the moan-goth 111 the other puinﬁngs are spirits
engaged in mowing and maping. — Passaga VIII. contains a re-
presentation of the ceremony of erecting the image, in which Hm
ﬂown—prince, the high priest with the panther-skin. the Kharheb
with the book, and other spiritual dignitaries take part. The in-
scription contains the ritual used on this (mansion. «m IX. The king
confesses his sins in presence of several. gods. — I. This large
chamber, supynrtwi by eight- pillars, was found by the French Ex'
pauition to contain 9. sarcophagus, now in the Leuvre. The lid,
which was wanting, is now in Cambridge The mummy 9f the king
Page-279
Tombs arm Kings. meme. 20. Route. 215

from the shaft of D6: el—ba‘nri was discovered in a large cofﬁn of
queen Nofreteri, along with a female mummy, which fell to pieces.
This is the ‘aeirmnmical’ forum, 0!: the wall to ﬁlm rights Ammon-
Ra sweetie winge like a birtl; While elsewhere there are numerous
representations of stars, the hours, em, and other curinns ﬁgures.
The paintings in the small rooms at the corners ale» refer to the
eidereal bodies; my. stars in N0. ii, the cow in No.14, etc. — XI.
At the entrance is a green ape with a bow. Then, to the n‘gln,
men with lizards in their hands, probably indicating length of
years, for %. ash means ‘meny’ or ‘numerous’. — XIX. The lest
rooms and recesses are devoted to Anubis-heeded gods, 5.4:. with
jackals’ heads, and especially to gods of the (19ml.

No. 12. (have, withnntinscriptinne.

No. 13. Very low, and largely ﬁlled up, shows the cartnnche
of Sell 11.

150.14. (e%{§®)§ (:ﬁiﬁ?g )
ﬁrm: and his wife E («5% T P M g@)

A130

\ _ Erik—xwpﬂx >1/QQQEQ%>}

(0 ESEWIJAO‘éNWW (if M0 w
Seﬁﬁekht.

This tomb originally belonged in an anti-king Show}: and his
wife Tamer, but it was afterwartis appropriated by Sati—Ner’ahz,
father and immediate predecessor of Ramses 111., and suppressor
ofa rebellion in his kingdem (p.1‘l'2). Whelher the tomb also
containeé the names of Seti IL, whc rests in the adjoining lamb,
is exceedingly doubtful; they are not new visible. The queen Tweet
is more conspicuous in the paintings here than her husband‘ whence
it has been justly inferred tint Siptah founded his claim an the
throne on rights vested in his wife‘

1,, lo the left: The queen before Enmswhiei ma before Anubis ;
King Siptah before Isis, and before Home; the queen before: Nefer-
tum—llor. Then a. llekennu inscription. To the right: The queen
befere PM: and Ma, Siptah and his consort before a god, the queen
before Earmachis, Harbor, and Naplrfnye, Bethe: with ﬂowers. —
11. King Set! Nekht before Somti. Champollion believed than he

had here discovered She carious-he of Set: Nekht (-7 l?!) engraved

 

Ismael“.

 

i
above that of Setl II. (T 3%). and the latter above those ef’l‘enser

and Sip‘eeh. Now however‘ there is no visible trees of this super-
position, which would assign to Siptah 3 am anterior to Seti ll.
- III: Anubis and other genii, armed with knives eaten imfﬁmﬁ
Page-280
2i ﬁ 120m 90. THEEES, Wm Bank:

of a chapel, “to keep off tha evil ones“ Bathe: again lpyeam in
the doorway at a‘ --- 1V. Large repmsmtaﬂon of Anubis am} 1318
genij ef the dead; and also of Isis mé
Naphthys. At bb is the king, ates, the
Sign £1.41 5] high-priest with the panther»skin. —— V.
Cﬁ

 

’ jg Abovs the door Anubis and Burns sacrin
‘Dwg and ! ﬂee to Cain‘s; ﬁgures with knives in from.

PC? of chapels; beneath, the king. In the door—
way the winged Ma, for 0111‘; 11-11113: msy
ﬁnd mimittmce here. -- VI. The Ha nub

or Hall of Gold. “The act of the

awning of the mouth by than xoyul likenuss
in the Bali of Said. ‘The high priest (Sam)
is repmsenbed with the stsﬁ and panther—
skin, the Khexheb with the book, and.
there an priasts of inferior rank win) {aka
part in the caremonyn Bwides these there
are people introduced and named as ‘Thosa
who come to the tamb‘, ‘One whe enters
that he may see it) etc. They aypaar to
make afferings. A peculiar kind of incense
(but) is used. The columns of ten below
this representatien contain a ritual can—
sisﬁng of versicles and responses by tha
yxiests and the son who m set up the;
iikenass at his fame): A spatial birth—any
fastiwﬂ is also referred to, and mention
made of another ceremony which occurs
eisawhere, ‘the spelling of the eyes‘ with
a hook. m VII. Anubis by the bier and
the canoyi beside him. — VIII. Amer-
chzunber. Representations of the gods:
Qaixis enthronad, Isis, Nephthys, Home,
Sub, Ptah, embracingB/Iai oﬁeringsbmught
to Harmachis and Ma, Thom with the moon Q upon his hand; an
the door to the next principal room, Ma with Wings. -—- IX. in this
1arga hall a second sarcophagus may have been plsceﬁ, and the
rapresentations of cofﬁns and seats render it very 9301331116. 011 the
right hand wall is Ammoana as a bird with outspmaé wings, on
the left the serpent, at a the heat. A god with the haul of Seth uni
Horus spreads his hands over the double lion, at d is a swimmax
in the oceam - The comer room and tin succeatiing side-wings
remain unﬁnished. ~— X and XI are (9mm)!o —- X112 The whining
of the carved stuns ends here. The Rurpant Ashu—ipam is seen with
many hands, also the hat. — XIII. A chained serpent with knives
in its back and camiva foes. _.... XI V. The hail 6f the sarcophsgus
Page-281
Tombs afﬁne Kings. THEBES. 20. Route. 217

is damaged in many placss, tha pillars being entimly destroyed.
The sarcophagus of Queen Tausa: bears he! likeness between Isis
and Nephthys.

(@lﬁf-ﬂq'ﬁﬁ (@Qﬁﬁl
3:: II. ﬁerenptah II.

This scarcely completes! tomb lies farthest up the valley. The
king in addition to the ordinary titles is callsd ‘Sun of tha earth’

and ‘Sokaris’.

I. To the right anti left of the entrance is the winged H3. (211 the.
right the king lakes oﬂ‘erings to me Ra. of Merenptah, he presents Ea
tn the god Sakai-in of erenytah; then begin); the book of praises of Ra
in Amen-mes she ﬁrstépart 0f whissh is carve-i anti painted but :11»: and
merely sketched in re . Cums left is the warship of tits god Praia,
well preserved‘ Farthsr on. the disc with the crowdile, and the 75 Hm
kennu or invocations to Ra the almighty. The stone 0f this tomb is
dazzling While like marble.—II. Outline skeiches for the fiat-are of the
boat, eta-«in {11’ am sksenhas which are barely visible“ — V, a the kin
in a small bowl, 3 Isis anti Nephthys. A150 symbols and banners-U
Over the doc: two (Marines are made to Osiris, there are also the boas
and the Main, the baamrs of the measuring lina, of the Metau, (and e
the Searet A sloplng passage leads downwards from the hall with gyillars;
an the rest is cleatmyed. The torso of a broken statue of Isis lies on

ﬁlm ground.
(a E $53 {If}

No. 16 has no inscriptions.
I
am, 17. {(9, 15 ﬂ)
usually known as Balzani‘s Tomb from its discoverer in Oct. 1817
In beauty 02‘ sxscutien it far surpasses all the other tombs of Bibén
al—Mulék, and the sculymxes on its walls apyear so have been
executed by the same artists whose works we had the oypommity
of admiring s: Abydos. in size it resembles Nos. 11 and 14; its
length is 330 ft. The dsscent is made by a sheep ﬂight of straps,
in which it xesembles only the tomb of M;

It 010 she left bsgins ‘Tha book of the praise of Rs in Amentbes',
which has been aimed by Ravine. It says: ‘When this book is xead,
the ﬁgures of clay are upon the ground at the going down 431‘ the
sun, sic. the lordshi}; of Ra over his enemles in Amemhes; who is
wise on earth is wise ﬂee after dentll‘. This pars-gray}: 0f the back is
{allowed by a picture diviéed into three compartments, in the
middle is scarabaus with Khnum, below a crocodile with an ante-
lope‘s head, above a serpent with an antelope’s haad reversed. The
ﬁrst chapter begins in the ﬁrst carridur 0n Elm left, and runs straight on,
occupying only a part of the will. In the second corridor on the left
begins the second chapter, while the upper part is covered! with the
15 forms of Ra in long niches. The two sides of tha second ccrridor
contain tbs 2nd, 3rd, and part of this 4th chapters. At the and some
passages were omitted, and the rest of the 4:2: chapter was placed
on the part of the right hand wall of the ﬁrst corrldar that was yet
unused. — 11. Here the process of the work qqyrlgg‘éllqw -

Sati 1.,
Page-282
238 Boats 20.

 

 

 

 

 

T HEBES, West Bank :

being sketched? and another part
still nnculeumd. In swam} places
the artist had to lay down his chisel
or pencil when in the midst. of his
work. The roof is painted with
vultures and the caﬁouches of Seti I.
The wide passage Hopes downwards
with a, double ﬂight of steps of dif-
ﬂ'erent width. At a is Isis, at b
Nephthys repreBented as kneeling
hefon's Anubis.--- 111'. At c the bust
of AﬁI-Ra is being drawn along by
guds on the mean; his fees are also
saw amt before them a gnarl-38s, of
Wham it is said that she lives upon
their blood, dose by is Horus, stand-
ing upon and holding; the wings of
a serpant matching itaelf over the
lion. At d the twelve—headed sarw
pam Nahebkn, another winged saru
pent, etc. IV. Tha king before
several gods. To tha left, e, 113 is
brought before Isis by Hows. At f
he makau offerings to Bathin- of
Thabes, the Rania of heaven, and
the princess of all godly; in the re—
gien ofAmimthas whn aays to him:
‘1 givo these the throne of Osiris“.
g The king before the mummy er
Osin‘s. By the sida is written: ‘1
grant that» the ascent mm heaven'.
I: Osiris, Anubis and Hams, i The
king bufore the mistress 01' the
worlds in the land of Manun. k is
similar to 7'. This mom 8361115 to
hear the name of Hall of the Gods.
A shaft was found here? and it was
considered to be the and of the
tomb, until tbs hollow sound of the
wall betrayed w Belmui that there
were more rooms bayomi. m V. Hall
with 4 ﬁllers. To the right and
[aft of the door at! and m an: m-
presented 1m» grant ampmﬁa rear-
ing their hamla, {mm the: Book a!
the Lower World (IV, V). One is
called Setwm~ar~tat ~ 0: ﬂrawyed
Page-283
Tombs ofihe Kings. TREEES, 20, Route. 239

the ether Talia-her, or torch-faced. ‘Thsy illumine‘, the $311sz
the side tells us, ‘the hidden dwelling, they close the ﬂoor after
the entrance of this grout god’. Near than; is seen a double door,
in which are represented nine mummies one upon the other,
gnamled by two fire—breathing serpents. A: n we see the heniu, ihe
worshippers, the ‘cyele of the god’ in the host, and the god being
drawn along, endiower down Tum C?) destroying his enemies with ehe
lance. All these scenes are taken from the Book of ihe Lower
World. Hero also are to be seen the four nations which we met. in
Tomb 15, Room VI. TheLibyans andEgyptians are fairer here. Ate
are the bearers of the measuring—line, the bearers of the serpent, the
souls (ban; mummies with beads of birds), the 3360er of the lower

world, and the bearers of the Han ?; at u the bearers of the Meta“,

of the Arnu stamens, of the Manama 34¢, a chain which comes from
the neck of Osiris. On the entranceawall to the right in the second
row is the boat of Afusz. with Se anti Hakim, drawn by aha dwellers
below, and lestly the mysterious bearers of the Secret. In the third

row is Tuﬁ an a serpent Neheh, on which twelve mummies rest,

1
‘they who tarry With Osiris, who have travelled hither and are
weary‘.—-—From this hall on the left a. (light of 18 steps leads into
the long Passage VII, and so to the other rooms. Aithe back of Room V
a smell ﬂight of steps leads to Hail VI. The inscriptions in this are
merely written on siucco. In one place we see. serpenis which spit ﬁre
all. figures lying upon the grown}, in another we Bee ihem roasted
in an oven, scones suggesting the Inferno of Dnnte.~——p Demons
carrying a serpent before the boat. (1 Others with bows anti spears.
r A cow standing on the symbol 0f sovereignty, a ram, and a bird
with a human head ‘3', all scenes of the 9-12“: hours of {he
Amanat. The outline sketches of some of the unﬂnishoé ﬁgures
are most remarkable, and some of the greatest modern artists have
expressed their astonishment at the masier-‘nand which they display.
——Fxom VI! other steps lead down to VII], (he Hall of Gold, of the
priestly ceremonies of the ‘opening of the mouth' (apvro). Un-
fortunately i2 has not remained uninjured, though on the whole in
better preservation than the hall of gold in No. 14.——]X. The king
before the infernal Hathor, Anubis, Isis, Horns, Eathor anti Osiris,
twice repeated; then Fish in his shrine—“X Large hell with six
pillars. Unfortunately some of the reliefs on the pillars have
been removed, and in consequence, this, the ﬁnest hall in the
s'omh, threatens to fall in. s t On the (loo! to the right is seen the
serpent Akebi, to the left the serpent Sea—set, and passages from
the Book of the Lower World. The dwellers below 'pruise Fla, and
altering is made hy ‘ilum-a in the depths’ by {he side of 25: ﬁgures
who drop their hands in gray-er, below is the host 0} Aim-Rs with
Page-284
2'20 Route: 20. THEEES. West Bank:

Sn anrl Hakim, (Erwin by ’those who are in the deptha’. To meet

those represented here come other gods ‘who have already fauna

admissiun’. Below all is Tum, the conqueror of the foes, who lie

bound on the ground before him. Again we see the boat, the hernia,

and the men or people of the lower work}; also the members of the

hensehold of Ra, to which belong (1) nine apes which sing when Bu
1

enters the depths, {‘2} ﬂrawhxanthing serpenis 2,1 1 which illumine

the darkness in the dapths, (3) nine men with arms “praised,
who praise En on the ninth of the month, (4) twelve woman who
do homage :0 Ba, when he enters the A111: names, or chan. The
roof contains astrological ﬁgures, lists of decani, constellations and
the; like, below is Api etc. The magniﬁcent. sarcophagus of aiahaster,
together with the fragments of the litl, discovered hem by Baizoni
(Oct. 19th 1817), is new at the Soane Museum in London. It was
empty, and the splendid mummy of Seti I. was (liscovered in 1881
in the shaft at D6: el—bahri (see p. 229) in a sarcophagus borrowed
from tha high-«priestﬁ of tha Qist Dynastymuﬂ. Serpents at the
door, heat, recumbent Osiris, etc. mXII. Astronomical ﬁgures.
The cow, supperﬁng Shu, and. announﬁed by worshippsrs.~—XIU.
Large: square room, with one of the pillars supporting the mof
(lest-my“. Round it runs a paxapet. on which statuettes, vases.
amulats aka, pmhably 51006. The astmnomical ﬂgnxns are ex—
ceedingly difﬁcult to understand; below is a sarpant with the. heads
of the {our ganii of the dead. 95 The boat of Afu-Ra with his usual
companions. At thsir head leis, with hands eutstretched, exercises
a serpent, which has many knives sticking in its hohy, and is held
by the neck and throttlml by s. goddsss. mXIV remains nnﬂnishetl.
The rudely constructed passage which slopes downwards some
70 yds. farther offers nothing more, and the traveller may now return
satisﬂml with what he has seen, and astonished at- the labour which
it must. have cost.

M4
N0. 18. ((9% E53 ‘ (9)1 names x. The mm which is
\ ‘c. NW

half destroyed can have belonged to no em; else. The tomb con—
tains nothing worth a visit, hut is a convenient place for luncheon.

No. 49 is not a king‘s tomb, but was made for a prince of the
ﬁlth or 20131 Dynasty, :3 royal scribe and cnmmailder-in-chia i‘, named

HA-masas MENTV-ﬁEn-KHOPESH-F ((5? #33? Q ? %>.
‘ ’ ’ , .L. :22: 53-1».

'l'hB inner part of the tomb is ﬁlled ny. The portrait 0f the decsaﬁed
should be noticed. In 1885 several ornaments, fragments of a gar—
ment hf many colours and with gold buttons, etc. were discovered
in the tomb.

Neal the ahcve is a passage sloping downwards fer 80 Min, ﬂask
in a. westoxly and than in a southerly direction, Wh‘ may possibly
Page-285
Ez-Asasaﬁ THEEES. 2 I. Rouse. 221

has bean connected wish the shaft of D6: el-balxri, In which this
myal mummies were: tliScovamd,

‘21. Exam Bibﬁn el-Mnlﬁk ta al-Aaasif
and 1361' elsbahri.

From 36}: elwhiulﬁk we need not return by the way ws same,
but may take the path ova: the bill which aepazates the Tombs of
the Kings fmm D6: ei—bahri and el—Asasif. The Path, which cannot
be missed, begins at tomb 18-, from tomb 17 which every one will
visit, it lg reach-5111);! going a few steps so the west, PBXSOHS not;
equal to the climb may rléa to the top, but ll is a grant strain upon
the donkeys. Riding down the hill is by no means to be recom-
mended. The donkey-bays usually lead the animals by a narrow
path over tbs ridge, and await the travellers a: the foot. The zigzag
path is fatiguing but safe, and is easily accomy'lishod in 3/4 in. The
‘3 View is most mmarlzabls; ﬁrst int/a the deselate vallsy 0f the Tombs
of the Kings, than from the summit sum as we descend. into the pe-
culiar xavine cf Dé: el-balul; we see the swap projecting mountain
side with its tombs, and buildings old and new: with the rich green
of the» fertile: plain balow symad mm {In both sidas of the. Nile, and
here and there its gxoups 0f palms and gigantic, (temples, as far as
Kamak and Lulu: on the E. bank.

Those who are interested in the. prehistoric stone-age, and the ﬁlm
implements of the childhood 0? the world. may notice at the beginning
ofthaz. path as well as 011 ﬁle to? of may hill, and as they éeacend to 96:
el-bahri, seversl epen spams covetea will: fragments of ﬂint. Lenozmsnt
and Hamy considereﬁ ﬁlm“: to bi: prehiatoric knife-nmxufacmrie», and the
myriads of fragments lying aboui to be the- work of man; but Levsius
has proved the}: they are nothing more than the fragments of ﬂint noaules
such as may now be seen lying ghont, which nplit owing to the rapid
changes of ecmpcraium. The traveller will in fact ﬁnd thousands cf
fragments resembling kaives and scrapers. Ana this is only namral for
whcuner the splilli'ug is; due to nature or to an), the same shapes are likely
to be constantly produced, The saylcameous limestone of these bills is full
of mums of siiexl The walls of tha tembe may be remembered with
the: dark broken nodules which stand but against the light-coloured lime-
stone. What Hamy and Lenormani tank for ﬂint manufactories at. the
entrance of Bibﬁn el-Mulek are only heaps of stone} cut out of the rock
with meta-11.0015 at the making of lhe tomb. The fragments of limesllme
and ﬂint. were necessarily removed from the excavations and. were thrown
down on the sides of the valley. 0:: the osher hané Viz-chow aaeumes
a. prehistoric Egyptian stone period, and considers the, stone—fragments
G'f DE: ebbalgri to be to some axtem’. artiﬁcisl pmductions.

Before turning to the temple of D6: el—balfml which is seen, with
the tuwer of clay~bricks, as ws descend the km, a visit should be
paid to the Nacropolls lying hetwaen Shaikh ‘A'bd olulﬁurnal: (33.190)
and Drain Abu’ImNeggah (p. 199) knawn as m

EI—Asusif‘ The yart to be visited is known by the Arabs as el—
Awslf’ ei—bazzréyehoxthe northern Asasif. Numerous tombs of varioua
periods lie here in the series of low hills, which form the hawk as
it were: of the steep rocky‘range rising balximl Dér el—lmhri. Only
Page-286
222 Route 21. TEEBES. Was Bank:

a. few tombs a: el—Aseslf are usually visited by the ordinary mveller.
Some belong so the18th and 19th Dyn., but the most important
are of the 26th. Broken walk seem to indicate that the cemetery
was divided into emtiensr We else my}. 2mm variants brick build—
ings and a large arched doorway. During Marietta‘s excavations
many mummies were found, not in regular tombs, but elaher in the
earth itself, at in small vaﬁlte 3 to 6 it. below the surface. In some
of them, papynw-rolls of great value were discovered. The toll» of

n w
racemes”) ( U Q q 8 'ﬁ) is larger than Res. 14 and 17

W G - ‘

at Biker: el-Mnhlk, and. is worth a viiﬂt an account of ms greet size.
Peenmenap was a. prince 0f the empire and an ofﬁcial of the 26th
Dyn., whose remarkable position entitled him to the unusual htmour
of completing buildings a: the temple of Meﬂinet-Habu, and of
ylncing his name upon them. The tomb is out mat of remarkably
beautiful limestone; and its inscriptions rlisyley the mattress of
ﬁnish which is peculiar to the sculptures of the Egyptian renais—
sance. I: has become the home of thousands of hats, which render
the attempt to copy the inscriptions in. the inner rooms very ﬁifﬂetxlt
by censﬁa‘nﬁy extinguishing the light, The smell, moreover, which
they cause is so strong and offensive that a morning?“ inspeacion 0f
the tomb is recommenﬁaa only to those who can overcome the feel-
ing of nausea. Any one who is subject to giddiness sheuld avoid
going far into the tomb, as in the middle it is necessary to balance
oneself, though only for a few steps. along a narrow path on the
edge of a deep shaft. Sir Gardner Wilkinson undemok the measure-
ment of the lamb, and the inscriptions have been almost cempletely
copied. and Partly pubﬁsheé by Dﬁmicheh. These are impel-mm
chieﬂy for the detail); of the funeral ceremonies:

The entrance, as in almost all ﬁle tombs in this part 0! the acum-
polii is by an oyen courtyard William walls, £0313. wide and 78 ft. cleey,
which lead» in a. 11311 In the rock (the mortuary cheyel), with side-
chembere and passages, This is 6717:. wide by 03 ﬁr deep; and its roof
is supper-Led by two rows of pillars. All we walls are ernemeumd with
inscriptions and! reliefs carefully executed, but now unfortunately much
injured and blackened. These almcst without negation, refer to ill!) faﬁc
of the soul ln the lower worlcl. —A vaulted Corridar leads into 8 second
large Room (55 ft. by 37 ft) in which 8 pillars remain to prevent ﬁlm roof
from falling, while. in the Room adjoining it, 32% ﬁt square, only & have
hem spared. A 05mm with niches (21 ft. by 12 f1.) concludes this series
9f rooms, we mm} length of which together with the courtyard is 313214
The nature of the alone having apparently prevented further advance late
the rock in this direction, the masons turned to the left and dag out a
wide Han, uni also to the rigm, when: nix Hucceesive Fatwa were
made at right angles leading to a. small room. These not being on (he
same level were cenhected by ﬂights 0! rep -etively 9, ‘23, end 9 amps.
In the small room mentiuned in a shaft ft. deep Wm: a chamber.
Caution is necessery here. This series ofgasssgcs is 1771's. in length.
From the mom containing the shed: a Wider was again :0 the
right, and leads to s iransverne Chamber, making es ft, in this din-adieu.
liowever, before reaching the steps on the emhé line, we ﬁnd liming

£0 a._ secuml ahafi a. fourth m of passages {a the right, 125 f5. lung in e
kin-ugh: direetion. Adjoining this on the 1:“ is 3 lug 3 “cry 58!}.
Page-287
mr elpkuim‘. Tamas, 21. Route. 223

square, in the; decoration 92‘ which the central block is treated as i! 1%
were an Brim-mans sarcophmns. In fact the Sarccphagus of the deceaseﬁ
lies belaw the centre of this block, and is reached by means of a per»
pendiculnr shaft, 38 ft. in xieprh, at the end of a Corridor i0 Hm right nf
the main passage, By descending 8hr. shaft, :3. room 195/2 it deep is reachad,
anti from the moi of this there is an entrance tn the sarcophagus-hail,
which is exactly beneath the aqaare block above. described. The lengﬁr
of this private :cmh Wuhan: the sidewchnmbers is 8621’L. and its super-
ﬁcial area. 2470 sq. yda. or with the shaftwhambers 2690 sq. yiis.

To the N. or this huge tomb are several smaller ones of the
same period, wii‘n ﬁnely worked arriachambers, and false doors, and.
caurefuily exacuiexi inscripﬁions. Some of these, especially those 06
the royal iadias and Briastesses of Ammon, Shcrp-en—dpt and Wait-

‘JCX a“
6km or Nr'iocn's ’i (J) , contain valuable contri-
o (f) a

butions ’w the knowledge) of the family of Pharaohs which formed
the 26th Dynasty. A queen Nitocris of the 6th Dyn., known as r
pyramid-builder, is said to have been beautiful and lightr-haired.
With her may ham been confounded tbs princess of the 26611 Dyn.
with the 6am»: name, who was buried at ei—Asasif, ansi lived shortly
before the fungus catamaran (if Nancratisy named Rhodopa‘a or the;
rosy—cheeked. Nitoeris the elder and Rhodopis were 910153ny called
by the same name, 5.6. the fair one, in the mouths of the Egyptians,
and Herodotus hearing that tbs ‘Fair one‘ had lived shortly before
Amasis, confused the two, and rugmrteai that the courteznn Rhoéopis
was considered the builder of pyramids. See V0]. 1., p. 346.

The Terrace-Temple of D6: al-baiiri‘

This zemyie derives its name, meaning the North Church or
North Monastery, from an ecclesiastical rick building of the Christ;
{an period, the ramains of which are mentioned an 33. 2'27. Dh-
al-haigri is washed frem oivAsasif in iOmimrtas. its simatien is
remarkably ﬁne, its terraces which we ascend, being framed by a
semicircle of high and rugged rocks, of a light brown and golden
colourr It" Timbbs had been in Green-3, thig is where its citizens
would have piaced their theatre: The Egyptians whose thoughts
were fuller of death than of life, foundatl a sanctuary for the
worship of the deed. Apparently an avenue of sphinxas, of which
some traces rsmain, connected this with the Ianding~stags, where
boats coming from Karilak on the W. bank ware anahored. This
magniﬁcent work was carried out during tbs rise of the New Em”
pire, and the numerous processions of pilgrims began in the
15th cent. 13.0. The laying out of the terraces wss begun by Tut-
Ixms 1., anti completed by his daughter, Queen Habsheysu, or Hz»-
tasu—Ramaka, famiiiar to us as me raiser of the great. obelisk of
Karmik [3L 133). Her-a too 1m: brothars, Tutmes II. and 111.,
although their names are mentioned, fall into tha background
when camyarsd with their energetic and ambitious sister. After-
Page-288
2'24 Route 27. THEMES. West Bank:

warns anmes III. erased in many ylaces ‘he name of his obnoXm
ions guardian, who seems also to have been the wife of his older
brother Tu mes II. The great mouar chs of the 19m Dyn.3 Setl I.
and Ramses ll, Merenpmh, son of the latter, Remaeelﬁ.1 Pi nozem,
one of the priest—kings of the 2'13: Dyn., Taharka, the Ethiopian,
of the ﬁlth 30313., Yeemmetikh 11. and Nitocris of the 26th Pym.
Ptolemy 1X. Euergetas II. and his wife Cleopatra, and Ptolemy X.
Lathyrus, all contributed by works of restoration to prevent the
building which had been completed under Hausa, from falling
into decay. Both the style, and the inscriptions tell us that Dér ol»
hahri is to he considered comyletely e work of the beginning of the
New Empire. The size and simyllcity of its Parts, and especmliy
the pol gona‘l columns are a. sign to those who are familiar with
the development of Egyptian architecture, that the Iiyksos period
must be uonsidered to have been a time of stagnation in Egyptian
an, and that exactly the same forms and arrangements of columns
were common to the architects of the 12th ena in “rose of the
18th Dynasties. In Thebes, and not least at De: el—bahrl, the ob—
server is tempted to regard the New Empire as an immediate com
tinuaﬁon of the Old, although between them lies a period of ﬁve
hundred years.

The plan of this terraceacample is remarkable, and cannot be
compared with any other in Egypt. The arrangement in four
terraces rising Eton: the level ground up the steep side of the Li—
byan mounﬁaim is quite unique. The stages were out out of the
E. slope of She mountain, and, support was given to the outer arid
inner walls by means of blocks of the ﬁnest sandstone. At the S.
and of the terraces we can best see the care taken to support the
earthy-works. The outer wall consists here of ﬁnely polished blocks
of limosmne with simple but aﬂeative ornamentation. Broad plm
lasters, but only 8 in. deep, ylased some distance span, project
from the wall with which they are connected. Above each is
enthralled a gigantic hawk with the grown of Upper and Lower
Egypt, standing upon an Uranus—serpent, and above it is the symbol
of life supported hy an limes-serpent.

A long Avenue of Sphiﬁzes probably beginning with a. pylon,
near the entrance to the tomb of Petamenap (p. 2‘22) led up to the
series of terraees, the successive stages being reached by steps
ylaaed in the mixicllo.

The First Tee-mes (beginning from below) is almost entirely
destroyed, but we can make out the pathway which led from the
boebom to the top, end divided the whole into two equal puts. Be-
low the Second Terrace (Mariem’e Tea-mere (la FEM] are the ruins
of a Hall, supported by columns of i6 aides. whlnh in this form
were used only under the Nth arm 19%}: Dynsatles. The pressure
of the earth is sustained. by a lofty inner wall on which are some
well preserved inscriptions, and reyresenmﬂone of shlgs, soldﬁers
Page-289
Dev el—babri. THEBES. 21. Eagle. 225

with axes, ollvuwbramhes, inc. Lying on the ground is a peculiar
68311131, such as may be seen also in other parts 0f the temple, can"
sist‘ing of a cube, with the mask of the goddess Blather carved. on
the front and hack. The upright brokw sham should also be
noticed; one half was created as a pillar, the other as a yclygonhl
mlumn with 7 sides, and an inscrlpclan was glanced on the surface
of the pillar.

The ‘Third Terrace (Marlelte’s Tarrasse du Centre) deserves
especial notiﬁer Underneath them ware on each side, left and right,
we rows of :11 square pillars which together formed two balls, 33 ft.
long, open th the east. Of these the pillars of the left hall still
stand, only two remaining m that on @he right These: halls sup-
ported a roof of Whinh all that remains is a fragment of ﬁlm am hi,
have and it hruad slab on the £1 pillars in the back row The
scenes represented on the‘ inner wall and on the left side are of
green interest.

Disregarding for the presentlhepan ef‘xhe temlzle to the left{5peos
of Humor, 1) 22?) we begin with the right side of the inner wall
below the third terrace. The ﬁrst scenes are somawhat damaged,
hut- those which follow are in a grind. stale names-amnion? Haul refor
chiefly to line expedlthm on which Queen lhtasu—Ramaka sent her

U MAMA \
ships to Arable. (: Punt }. l. Ramaka represented as
O

/

hing, with the double crown on her head, and. the shelf in her hand,
hefora Amman—Ra. There is a long but obliterated inscription.
2‘ The queen with two bowls full of grains ofﬁng-«mas and with
she helmet. on her heal}? before the sacred boat of Amman-Ra. The
boat with a ram’s hear} at each and is carried. by priests, of whom
the two in the centre are highuyriests, clad in lanyard—skins. Next
we see 7 Hahn-trees in tubs, probably incansehbuaring trues imported
w Egyph from the East; men with tubs are yillng up the incense
in heaps. Above are the weighing and measurihgofprecious metals,
he may be seen elsewhare. The weights used fur Waighiug the gem
rings are in the form of oxen lying down. The goddess Safakh marks
the result on a tabla. Naxt are 3 Nam-trees, Below is seer. a group
of 8 cattle, two eating the reeé—graas on the river-side. The scene
reminds us vividly of Phsroah’s dream (Gen. XL}. 1). ‘And it new;
to page at ﬂu) and of two full years, that Pharaoh dreamed: and,
behold, he stood by the river. And, behold, there came up out of
the river seven well-favoured him and fat-ﬂashed; and they fed. in
the reed-grass’. Near thig are sacks with cosmetics (megtem). Again
we ﬁnd llm king with this insignia of power. Then 2 rows of. ships
belongling to the fleet which Ramaka—Hataau sent #5 Arabia. The
shape of the vessels, their rigging, cars, and rudders should be
noticed, as well as the cargo which can be seen on beard, am} the
balling by means of a small boat. The nsaessary explanations
are given by small inscriplianu above the pictures a the left,

833933113 5 Upper Egypt. ,
Page-290
226 Bertie 21. Tnnnns. Wee: Bank.-

below, is an inscription 0f 15 lines, of which the 81b and 9th
were destroyed by Ramses 11., for the purpose of inserting his own
name in honour 0f Amman-Re, ills lord of heaven, em. It speaks
of ‘lhe voyage en the sea, the beginning of the great journey to

j Ta water, ale. the holy land, the hepyy arrival in Arabia cf

the soldiers a! Pharaoh, the lord of the worm, according to the
command ef Amman, the lord of the gotls‘, etc. — Another in—
scription between the ireee, to which the boat is fasteneti, tells us
that Punt as well as Arabia Penman was (ledicatexi to ﬁbre goddess
Rather. To the left of the two ships are 101mg describing by name
the dinerant kinds 0f wares which sailors are carrying on board along
narrew blanks. ‘Loaéing of the ships with untolti quantity of
valuables from Arabia, gracious kinds; cf wood from the heiy land,
beeps of the grains of incense—gum (kemi—en’o—anta) r, Nehru. trees
9f fresh incense—grains (Eats), ebony (hebnﬁ for sec-red vessels with
gold and sliver from of the land Ann: (Asia), Diane M, and Kbesie-
wend,1mssibiy sessile-bark, grains of Ahemﬁ’r, incense and cos-
Inezics (antimony), Anal: and Kefn apes, Desem beasts or grey-
bennds, coloured panther-shine from the south, natives and children’.
The inscription concludes with the statement. that nothing like it had
been done under any king before, and it speaks the truth. Hearst:
showed be! people the wey to the land whose products were later
to ﬁll the treesuries not only of the Pereehs, but also of the Blue-
nlciens and the Jews, —-- Theee pictures are bf spaniel interest as
exactly illustratingl Kings at. 2‘2: ‘Onee in three years came the navy
of Terahish, bringing geld and silver, ivory, and apes, and pesoecks’.
Except these 135% nsrned birds all the treasures may be seen en the
vessels of Esteem. Her expediucn must have been accompanied by

same naturemleving priests, as below the abipa we see the watermline
VVVVW

AMNV\ in which ere swimming various kinds of the most remarkable

WNW
ﬁsh oithe Red See. The drawings of these are so characteristic thee

Prof. Doenitz bas been able to determine their encodes. Among them
are anene unison-nix, Xipblm giadius, latex Teira, Bellman assasi,
Acanthurus velifer, Chaewdon stﬁgangulus, Scams viridescena, etc.
In 3 sale ‘one eye was drawn larger then the ether, showing a line

observation at nature”.

011 the wan adjoining the right-hand corner there was m be seen
until a few years ego the tamper: of the insane-erase, 9 soldiers vim
ofﬁcers, and in two ylsces, one. above She other, the rince of Fun, named
Pfrdhu, earning from the left, end followed by his wi a, remarkable for her

0
1- From theEg-yptian 43% is q 0 gemi. retainers; exnduiona from
O

varinua trees, some: mu word gum.
++ From the fruit 0! the Dues tree a sacred Gintment we; obtained.
ﬁr These belong to the mineral kingdmn.
Page-291
Der cz-eagm. THERES. 21. Rowe. 22?

chase. uppewmca, awn and a daughter, :3 well u a donkey, to curry the
princess on he: travels. llnfortumtely this piece 0f wall has been tie»
strayed by tourists, and only 5 small fragment showing the princess ané
her husband is preaer‘vad in the muneum at Gizelx.

The representation ends with a. settlement of the inhabiéants of Punt.
1% lies close to the water which is Gpalated by ﬁsh names, and crayﬁsh,
and it would seem u if the inhabxtzmts were lake-(iwellera. At all events
their coniwl houaes resﬁ upon piles‘ The rlnm- could only be reached by
a leader. which the min has not forgotten to represent. Pelme uni in-
canaeﬂlreee give shade so the village. In this soumem ludseepe appear, or
rather used :0 appear, on the right a. cow reclining, and on the left a lung-
tailed bird ﬂying through Che air.

The third. terrace was formed by the roof of this ball, on the
inner wall of which were ﬁlm above—described paintings, mgmllar
with a Temple, placed in the eentfe aml supported by round columns
and by the ground behind. From this tenses a well-preserved
granite doorway leacls t0 the burial chambers lying behind (see
below).

At the end of ms terrace to the left there is a remarkable small
Summary éediea‘led to the goddess Hathor, and built by Iiatasu and
he: husband—brother Tutmes 11., which skould not be left mwisited.
The No outer moms are in ruins, so that even the partition-walls
beiweaen the halls lying one behind the (ﬁber are scarcely xacognin
able. Some of the pillars and bases at" the columns, however, are
still uyright. We tum to the right and mm the remains of 3 Humor
Cow. There are else some mam) paintings of ships, but very faint.
On the outer wall of the temple built into the mountain, is an ex
licking the hand of king, 52:. queen Ramaka. As the edjoining
text says, ‘Slm licks Horus to whom she gave birtb’. To the right
03‘ the door is Tutmas III. (Ra-men-kheper—ka), and within Tut-
mes II. who built the (100: and gave his name to it.

The Burial Chambers lying behind are reacheﬁ through an ante—
chamber with two small niche: an each side. This is succeeded by
anemer long room with a 1111!; blue ceiling, ornamented with red stars
at one time probably gilt. On 9.3.0}: side of this funeral chamber
are niches. Next is a narrow room with two niches. At the back
of this last. on the two side—walls above the shaft is an exceedingly
interesting ‘Bepremstaiion of Queen Hatasu, drinking the milk of
life from the adders of the Hathar Cow. The now is aha ﬁnest. piece
of animal painting which has come down to us from Egyptian an-
tiquity. The canouche of the queen was erased, yrobably by order
of "her indignant ward Tutmss in. when he became independent.
All the inscriptions and paintings in this room {synecephali, liens,
etc.) are perfect in style; those in the niches tell us that these were
need for the ﬁlming o! olferings.

The last. 01‘ Faun}: Tevmcc is badly preserved. We ﬁrst come to
a granite doorway built by Tutmes III. on the central path, on the
left hand side of which we see an inscription of the 3rd year of
Metanpmh I. Next we reach the tower and fragments of wall, both
of rough Nile bricks, belonging to the monastery 0 sh hich

1'5
Page-292
228 Bowie 2:. THEBES. Wm 22m: :

has given its name to the place. To the left are the remains of
other roams, The name of Ramses 11., inserted by himself as a.
correction, should be noticed; behind are offerings for the (lead. The
ﬁne roof is not a true vault, the stones lying horizontally and being
cut out. The culours are fresh; la the right and left of the ﬂoor
are Tutmes III. and Tutmes IL; ever the «loo: 4 bulls. m Ascendw
ing 34 stops further my reach masher granite doorway else built
by Tutxnes 111., through which we enter avault sprinkled with stars.
This last rests against the wall of rock which rises above D6: 51—
balu-i, without being out into in A second subway with 2 side—
nielms leads deeper into the mountain, and there is a muduuvauiwl
room which was constructed under Tutmes I. of the 18th Dynasty,
but aypropristed by a distinguished ofﬁcial named Amenhotey,
antler Ptolemy Enosgetes 1L, ma his wife Cluepetra. The inscripa
Lions of this later yeriod compare very disséthsgeously with
those of the time of the Tutmes kings.

From the N. side of the third terrace ii is possible to Green into the
Burial Chapel, half ﬁlled with rubbish, wllinlx is supported by 1‘2. eight-mn-
si-ieci columns in four rows, and contains two empty sarcophagusvcheste‘
On the inner wall are Anubis nna misting; for the dead, This is fellevml
by a vaulted (Ix-lamb» the arch of which is pointed, and from this n nimiv
lazly vaulted Passage was at? at a righl angle to the W. of which is a
very small Roam, also vaulted in the same way. We thus ﬁnd three vaulted
mom, each smaller than the prewding. In from. of this arrnngamanl of
tombs these- wns a building of which there ngw remains (on the right
as we leave the lambs) a Colonnade with 'l' eighteen-sidbﬂ columns, bee:-
ing an urchin-eve, the astragal, and the concave cornice. “These rooms are
much chuketl up, and full 01' lxsgmcms of mummies, and linen rags. In
later times they were used as a col-men burial ground. The same fate
from ilxe 281i: Dyu. onwards bsfel the rooms at the em! of which is the
fine picture of the Hath»: (law (p, 2%); but them: are uuw kept clean and
easily accessible.

On the fourth terrace also pictures 0! a ptowssion have been pre-
ncncdl 0! the row of ships nothing ls'lefc but the waist-“lines below them,
but it ls {mm hare that a plum-e of a ship mm in the Berlln Inseam
was taken, with an xenon: uying inscription telling us that the mm»
was arranged by Tatum» Ii. in honour of Tulane» Ii.

At no great éistanee from ilér el‘bal‘xri there is a. roughly worked
peas; 5 cut, only about 3ft. high Ami scarcely accessible, which wns ex-
plore by ﬁbers. It leads into & sepulchrnl chamber. entirely severed
will: semiwhiemtic inscriptions, in which was buried a. princess named.
Nefru, a favourite and erhaps the mother of a princess Hatasu belenging
to the early pen-ion of t a New Emplx'e 0r, “cording to Naville, lo the
11th or 12th llyuaaty.

 

This neighbourhood slmulri not he uniﬁed without a- visit to ﬁlm shaft
from which ihe famous rnysl mummies were obtained. in 0rd»:- jo reach
it we wadk over the henna of anti to me right at the {not of Der el‘bsnrl
[or we may take an 83530: pull: from the village and 30mm cf 81:13!!!
'AM el~l§urnah down the slope to the west; In scarcely 10 min. w: m
in fmnl of a narrow chasm in the week, up which there is 3 ate: :limb
for ﬁmimnes. Above ts the Shift, lift. square, descending perpen mainly
for 38ft. A sarong rape and grant mmﬁion we necessary in 02693) to in;
let dawn. At the bottom is an entrance 5 is, wide sud 3 (1. high which
iem‘xs in a straight direction for '14 it. This passnge Ellen turns la the right
in a N1) directiqn for the length of more than £95 (9., in height very-
mg fmm 6 so 13 it. To Lbs right llve a: six nude steps lend to a mac.
Page-293
1);.» ai-aaztri. THERE‘S. 21. Route. 229

Straight on is a room about 25 it. long. Here on Jniy mm 198‘. Email
Mach «ifseovered the Sansone royal mummies, now in the (Eliza's Museum.
Since January 13m Ushabtiu tablets~ and largefunereel papyrus relis, all
coming fmm this 530%, ha- been sold to wealthy tourists through the
medium of Hustephs Age, the English ct‘msu‘ier agent at Luxor. Attention
was aroused by the Payee-w of Nate-mil, a uueen 0f the ﬂat Dyn. which
was produced in navel-31 pieces, one a! which )8 now in the Louvre, amt-her
in the British Museum, having been presented to the Prince of Wales, and
a. third. in the possession of a Selim lady. Enquiri . .hewed that there
were several brothers fAhd EFRMKI who were espec ally cemented in the
sale of these tutti uniﬁes. The arrest and trial of Ahmed, one of the
bx-oblxere, "followed 3? flogging, led to no result. Hewsver partly from fear
of punishment, and partly for as promised reward the secret was betrayed
by Ahmed‘s elder imbibe: Mohamed, to the Kuélir 0i Kellen, who give
information it; the Ehedlve. Bregsch describes that discovery ate follow»:

‘E‘m‘ry inch of she: subtermnean plumage was covered with cutting and
antiquities of all it. at, My astonishment was so overpcwering that I
scarcely 1m whether I was awake or whether it was 0:21;; s mocking
dream. Be an e eefﬂn, in order to recnvez from my intense excite
ment, 1 when wily my eyes over the eofllh—lixl, and distinctly saw
the name 1;? gang Sufi he {ether- ef Ramses .11., “both belenging to the
19th Dynasty. A few sie s fur-thea- mx, in a simple wooﬂen cofﬁn, with
his hands messed on his wast, lay Rama“ 1]., the great Esteem; him-
self. The ferthc: I advmnceﬂ, the greeter was the wealth displayed, here
:dmmaphés 1.. there mg, the three Tutmu, Queen Altman nofzrmﬂ',
Queen Aahkotep, all the mummies well preserved, in all 58 cofﬁns, belong»
ing to kings and. their wives or to primes and princesses, . . . .

’ By the evening hf July 11th all the. mummies and. cofﬁns had been
carefully packed at Lunar. Three days later the Museum atehmer came
tn carry the precinu burdens to Bﬂlilg. me Lum- to Kenton on both
sides of the Nile, the foilihin women followed the boat with loosened
hair and titles-lug! plaintive cries, while the men ﬁred at? guns, as at a
funeral. The will-nu were taken to the museum at 3mm}, and thence
removed to the new museum at Gizeh. — The discovery inoludeﬂ King
Ruuekenan, oi the 17th 13311., the opponent at the “ﬂaw of the 18:}; Dyn,
King Aabﬁm, queexm Jaime: mfm-tari and Aahhotep, k ngs Amenbotep L,
{men 1), 11“,, and UL, prince Bitumen, princesses Simmer; and Ken‘-
iamnn, 19761155135 3 prleei, and others; of the 19th Dyn. Ramaes 1., Se“ 1.,
aria ﬂames 1 . Rama III. of ihe 20th dyn. was also afle'rwah’ls found.
Of the priesirkingu of ﬁlm 531st Dyn. Pinazem, Enema, Ear/mm with her
daughter. 2. second ,Pa‘nwm, queen Helherhontrtwi, ,Mwalairta a. priest, two
princesses Aad-sm—Eﬁeb Mi Neeikhanm, am} others. There were also fmmrl
a large leather tent in red, green, yellow, ana white for Asbem'fheb, the
deughte: at King Pinata», M) esnopi, 3700 stamettcs of Dan-is, 12 to '58
ceremonial wigs, and 46 wooden cheats together with inscriptions, bronze
stools, papyms rolls, anti the like. The inscriptions found an the older
mummy-shes”. a9", that I)! Seti 1, anti on the! Wrappings, were of great
importance, n- ording that the mummies had been taken from their tombs
by the priest lugs 03” the 21st Dyn. (Harbor, Sitamon, Pinozem, and Ma.-
sahirta the priest) anti removed to that of a lady named An keb 0: An
hupu, in which also lay .Ameuhotey I. In the Abba“ Papyru: whieh is a
gulliem} enquiry into the robbery of the ion-he the passage 12!) eils iong
n the tomb et‘ Amenhmep 1., which was to the N. of the temple of Amen-
hotep, is mentioned. This corresponds to the passage in the Dei- al-baljm'
pit. The mlnnvs of the garlends ct ﬂamers were marvellously wsli
preservsli. The plants have been named by Pref. Schwetnt‘urth.

On June in 15:56: hy the wish at the Khedive um enrolling of the
mummies, a somewhst hold pmeeeﬁing, wan taken in hand, beginning with
the grey-hats ﬂ Ramses the Great, whose slim-g: lea’mres mm curved nose
are remark“ y striking. In the eomn ef Neferterl the mummy of Ram»
gee 111. was sf; manly immd. Then thllewed 891i 1. with his mild features.
Basekenen win his ﬁerce leak sndhmken skull havin perhaps fallen in
battle with the Khetm, Anhmes 1., and the pﬁest-P gs of Julie: A mummy
Page-294
230 Rome 22. 13mm. From Thebes

unknown showed terribly distorted painful features, as if it land died by
poison. In ﬁle course 02 a month all the mummies were unrellad, mea-
ared, daacrlbed, and wvemﬁ up again, though whether may will long aura
viva ﬁhe process remains ta be seen. Excellent photographs of the mum-
mies “mullet! were inken by Emil Bmgiéh, the enmervaior of me museum.

in Feb, 1891 anutbat- large rockwtom‘b was :ilacoverml 14': tn.) E. of the
sempls of Dér el-ballxi summing 163 mummios of prigsts uni dignity”;
9! aka 19th, 2051:, Md 1153 Dyn. beside: a lags number 9! 959913, (Miria-
alamettes. chants and boxes, lawman: 0! ﬂowers, funeral oﬁeriugn, ale.
Several of the samephagl are elaborately adorned with raligims scenes.
Judging from the manner in which the sarcophagi were pllaai upon each
other, and from tin: fact that several of Elm mummlea are damaged, it is
probable Elm, like the my»! mummies, they wen; hastily remand from
their original tombs m pmaexve them from apoliuion. The content; at
tbs lamb are new at Gisela? where the deelphuing of the pup”! will be
undertaken.

22. Franz Thelma ta Edfu.

Comp. Map 3. 98.

67 M. Simmer, up in 11112. down In 71/2 hm; Dhahabtye}: in 3-5 days,
awarding to the Winﬁ. '
The picturesque forms of the Arabian side of the Nile remain

long in View, Kém el-Iﬁéﬁin Ming the less: of the Memnonin to dis—
appear. In 2 hrs; the simmer reaches u
9 M, (W, bank) lament, the ancient Hemmbi», ﬁt}: an im—

pormxt sugar factory belonging to the Kheéive.
The Name commas naming else worth gaming. as the temple buildings
lstant about ‘h hr. {mm m town have bean almost entirely dastmycd,
or built into :he factory. 1‘. was 3 ”mm.“ Gr bmbmm dedchecl lo
39 the goddess Kata“, who as mother of :he young Horus is w.-
pare l. Cleopatra, and unuenlned pictures of Elm famous Cleopatra. Vi,
and of Casarion the, son of Julius Car-saw and that amen. The Tmpls um“
sisted of a court with culumns, about 56ft. wide y 653. deap. This was
folioweﬁ by a. long room, suﬂouudeﬁ by cnlumns, in like centre of which
was the mall» in several divisions, The lznglh of Elle wholr: 26m la Wu
190 its, the from; faced south—West, Until a few years ago the ca 1;, sud
5 columns: on the left, and 2 on the right of the fore-court were sland-
ing; scarcaly Anything now remains.
To distinguish i: from fan normal-a .47: Gr Eeliepolis (Vol. 1,, p, 333)

  

   

6 w a

ilewnunlh‘s was known in hieroglyphlua as m M Le. ﬂu: At: or On
6 . g m 6

a! the god Month, or ale. An Kemat, or the acumen: An, :

name which pmb-bly app! ed to the whole dialrlcz of Thebes, :0 which
it 1761011ng in earlier ilmes. Later 1: is mentioned as the apical 0!:
special dish-lei or name, am! large poﬁlana 02‘ Thebas were lnclmled in
ii. Under the Pﬁolemies an important: royal excise—ofﬁce had it; put have.
— A Gin-mien Church, now in ruins, must at. one time have been a build-
ing of cansideruble alas.

Travellers who have abundance 03‘ time, should land. The balk
is shaded with stately sycamore. Ines. Close by we a slam Bazaar
and a shop kept by a Frenchman. Donkeys for hire. A good read,
hardereri with trees and traversing a wall—cultivated district, leads
in lass than half-311—houi lo the villagca, among tho homes cf which

is prostrate columns. The inhabitants cherish the caricus ballet
Page-295
to mm. GEBELEN. 22. repute. 231

that. Moses was born here. Near the cemetery ere same ancient sub—
strnctnres, WWI fragments of inscriptiens recording abet Hermon-
this, which must have existed even under the old monarchy, was
adorned. under the 18th Dyn. with ﬁne buildings for the ﬁeity of
the city. Strain) relates that Zeus and Apollo were worehlpyed. and
that a seereti hull was kept here. As a. matter of fact the mom:—
rnents, besides mentioning several female deities, name Month
(Zeus) and seven forms of Home (Apollo) as the chief geds at Her--
menthis, while the coins of the Nome» Hermonthites bear the ﬁgure
of a bull turned towards the right, and preparing to ﬁght, with
lowered horns and extended tail. The Pharaeh is described as fall-
ing upon his foes, like ‘Montla, the bull raising himself to combat”.
~~~~~~ At Rizagri’t, 41/2 M. re the SW. 0f Erment, a stale of the 18m
Dyn. was found, in which this place is named Aimuts‘ru.

On the rlght bank, facing the curve which the Nile describes at
the villege 01" 3911M, lies the village of Tad, the ancient Tupin‘um,
with a ruinous chamber, the sale relic of a email temple of the
Ptelemies. Mesparo recently discovered here a granite sacriﬁcial
table, with a dedication by Usertesen I. in the gml Month. Steles
0f the Hill and 13th Dye. (new at Gizehjwere found a: Sahzmryeh,
19/4 M. to the W. of Tad. —— At Mealdh, on the E. bank, are frag-
ments of a syhlnx with the name of Amenhotep 1.

On the W. bank, 13 M. above Eminent. and eyposite a large is-
land, rise We 1'0ka heights, known asGehelén, i.e. the ‘two moun-
tains’, on one of which is the tomb 01' a 82:31:}: Mame, probably
confounded $9.11 Moses (see above). Here. on the site of ﬁlm ancient

£35 a

NVVV’VR “
polis, whieh, according m Serene, must be leoketl for between Her-
mentlais (Erment) and Latapolie (Esnehl. Extensive excavations
carried on at this spot by Maspero yielded sarcophagl of the 12th
Dyn. and also numerous domestic articles, eta, appropriate to per»-
mm of comparative poverty.

0n the W. bank, i31/2 M. farther up, lies Email, the ancient-
Latopdlis, a town 01'9060 mind», where the Muristweteemem hair.
for 3 hrs., while the mail-steamer on the downward voyage stings
all night. The yrofene name of this place under the Pharaohs was

23 g Sen, whence name the Coptic cmvt (SM) and the Arabic

Esneh. Esneh has large grain and settle markets, at which prices
are lower than at Aswan. The town, in which there are numerous
come-houses and gbawﬁzi, is somewhat notorious for the dissolure
disposition of the otherwise industrioue inhabitants, many el‘whem
are employer}. in wool—weaving. The Bazaar, at the entrance to
which is a kind of Market-Place, is tolerably well furnished. The
etreets are well built and same of the shape are Eumpean in che—
rgxzter. There is also a Druggt'rrl’s Shop. Paseengere usually [and

a) (luff, yrobably once stood the ancient Aphrodite-
Page-296
232 Route 22. ESNEH. From Thebes

Either near the former nudism}; [:now‘removed to Ewell}, Maia s
whlah um some simian: riparian consimctions dating item the Ram
man imperial times, or near the post—ofﬁce, a little to ﬁne 3%., when
the steamers lie. Tim chief object. cf intarest is the Temple,- and if
time permit the gender: of ﬁlm Khadiva to the Na 01’ the town (9. 235)
and tins 91a Coptic church (p. 235) may also he visited. The former
lies 10—45 min. from the landing-place (see above), sml ls rsaeheﬁ
by passing through pm of the town. Th5 old temylemsito is at pres
BenEEHEGd by the Excise Olﬂcs for sharing ﬁlﬁ grain, beans, and
asks: tribute paid in kind, but travellers will have no difﬁciﬂty in
inducing one ef the by—stamiexa to fetch the keeper who wiii unlock
the door. Cards empowering a visit. to the antiquities must not in;
furgottan (3m: pi xiv].

The air-called Tampa is in reality only a. Eypcuyla, which Midenély
frsm its size mus: have belonged to an unﬁsually large sanctuary. The
ground-level of the town has been raised by accumulations of rubbish etc.
in the height of the capitals of the columns, «0 that travellers descend
by step; into the interior 0f the building. Above {ha rest of the temple
now p355 streets, she removal of which would probably bring 40 the light
of day many monuments of antiquity. The savanta 0! the French Expe-
dition were yrofoundly impressed by the sight of this huge colonusded
hall; anal as the traveller standing in from of she steps leading to is,

games dawn inlo the mysterious twilight of the ancient sanctuary, he on»
not bni in: Bimck by the air of solemniiy that pervades ii.

The remaﬂwbls ”Hypcswle of Banal) is built throughout of
excellent sandstone, and ramalns in pexfaci preservation with the
exception of the lower part of the rear wall, which has been some—
whst corroded by the saline exudaﬁons of the soil. The unable hall
is kept clean by gnvomma‘nt, Tim r006 is harm by ‘24 columns
(in 6 rows), the ﬁrst six of which are annealed by balustzsdes; and
a dim light penetrates to the remote“ corner of the lull bezwesn
the columns. The i‘agsde is 120 ft. wide and almost 50 it. high; the
rectangular hall is (SW/'2 ft. deal) uni 108 is. brawl. Each column
is 37 ft. high and 173/; it. in circumierense. The intercolum—
niation is 11/? times the diameter of the columns, except in tin
central passage, when it is nearly 3 times Lise dismswx. Upsn the:
snmawhat lofty «Mei ur the columns rests a. massive uchiuave,
which suppoxts xooﬂng-slabm 22-328 ft. long and (ii/git. wide. It has
been calculated that about 110,000 cubic feet of smdswne have
bean 113ml for this one hall alone. The enormous wallvspaca, the
entire ceiling, the shafts, the same (on the facade), and the archi—
t-rave are covered to the last inch with inscriptions. Though these
last fall short of the dignity of style which claims admiration in ﬁlm
Earlier wnrks of Egyptian art, yet: they display that remaxkabla cam
in the represemaﬁon of details aml that elaborate variety of form
which at once distinguishes the inscriptions 0f the time (at the
Pcolamies and of the Romans, and renders their interpretaﬂm mom
(Emit-Alli.

The temple of Esneh was founded not Estes than the ﬁst?! Dyn.
mules: Twines 111., secoxﬂing to one at the inscriptions; and pum-
Page-297
to Edfu. RENEE. 22. Rouge. 233

ably the smitten}? founded by that prince still lies beneaih the
houses of the 101711, The hypustyle, however, must have been mined
and rebuilt under the Ptolemies, for the adornment of the hall be-
gun by these princes was cominued by the early Roman emyerors
'and completed by their successors. The inscriptions on the warm
well were begun by Ptolemy VII. Philometor. The Dedication In—
scription above the entrance Ceiebraées the ‘auwcmts’, Tiberius,
Claudius, Germanicus, andVespaBiam as ﬁlm builﬁars, whiie a share
in the decoraﬁea of the interior was taken not oniy by these win»
ass, but also by Titus, Domitim, News, Trajan, Hadrian, Anto—
ninus Pius, Marcus Aurelius, Commodus . Sap timing Severus,
Car acalla, Gem, Julius Phiiippus, andDeciuzCEélQelbi}. The name
of Dacius is specially noteworthy as being the later imperial name
that; appears in hieroglyphics on any Egyptian monument.

It appears in the following as cioua form: —
<27 <76 (:3 ““—
30: <7 :1 <9

   

 

 

a;

ant\

igggCeezefjj

it the sun the Kora of both worlds, the ﬁutocra‘: Caesar. son of the
sun, and 103d 0! the diadema, Tabla 65554722, Le Aims: asﬁu’e‘tuc. The
emperor ot‘fem a. ﬁre altar to Khrmzu. On the main mhitrave is Vumian:
on the abacus and entrance— «icon ﬁlm; on ‘he lower siﬁe of ﬁre main:
archﬁt‘rsve Domitian; on the columns Nema ami Tmiais. Nerva occurs her-3
(miy once and is found nowhere Blue Antonina; Pin, Murcia Aurdix'ua.
and Gommadw, occur on the exterior wail; and the last alm on the N
half of the W. wall and on the N. wan. Sag-11mm: Severn, (mammal, and
Gala appear on elm N. and S walls; (gram!!!) and ’ulitxr Philappus on the.
left half of me rear-w; all; and Devin-r at. the mat of the rear-wan

The building7 referred to several times in the inscriptions, as
the ‘Bouse of Khnum’, was éedicated to the ram—hemied Kllﬂu'm-
Ra, with whcm, forming a. 1riad,appear an lséa-Neith untier tha name

v7 CA 2?}
Nahum and a maﬁa: H r 5- : am <1 H: Ra.
@QQLI( ), p on fom,n e :-
Them war aiso a 8} Mia! cycle of 30119 of Esne‘n7 at the head of
which was Khﬁmm follow-26 by Ray Tum Khepera, Sim, Osiris,
Horus the son of Isis, Thom, am! Khrmsiz. Simibo nurraﬁes that
then and the ﬁsh Lame were worshipped here in Latoyolis; and
he was not misinformed. We not only ﬁnd the latter mentioneti in
the inscriptions cf the hyyostyle, but the Iatus gave the town. its
name under the Greeks, while the coins of the Latopolz'ian Nome
bore the ﬁgure of a ﬁsh, and ﬁnally an inscription at Edfu informs
us that me people of Latopoiis were forbidden to eat ﬁsh: Athena
(Nahum) frequemiy «wears, at: we have seen; and as Strain) makes
rm mention of Khmrm, who was unéoamedly the chief of all the
gods of this sanctuary, 7i: must be concluded that he was for 503%
mason led to aasign to the him the ghee of this at:
Page-298
234 Rome 22. ESNEE. From Thebes

this ﬁsh, which appears not only an the coins, but is also rowan
seamed with the disa batman]: tlm horns, was used as a. symbolical
represenmﬂon of Khulna-Ra, especially as we actually ﬁnd Klumm

unitml with the ﬁsh on the rear—wall of the temple% g

The SIDE WALLS are entirely covered with psinﬁngs and in—
scriptions. The former show the king making oﬂerings to var-£03m
divinieles of the temple, who promise, him in ramm the geed things
of life. At the foot of the wall to the ﬁg“ 01’ the entranu is the
amneror Commodns with Améris and Khnum capturing with a net
the various ymmm (If the Nile (birds, ﬁshes, pluses, am) On the
ether side of the ms: is Safakh. This symbolicsl representation poa-
sibly refers to the legend according to which Home ﬁghting against
Scmn'llyphon fell {lead into the watar and was drawn out cf it
again 121$;ng a lagand, whia'h is connected with the courss cf
the moon. A main door and two side portals are seen in the rear—
wall of the temple. The latter probably gave admittance to a corri—
dor surrmmding the Sanctuary, which was entered by the central
portals Racent excavations in this direction have hitherto remained:
withant result.

0n the pieces of wall between the pillars on the Front are sev-
aral highly imgertant inscriptians , of which by far tha most
valuable: is tbs calabrated Calendar of Festivals on the wnlluplllnrs
tn the right and left. A specimen: of $315 eccentricities and. freaks
indulged in by the histogrammstists under the Romans, may be
seam in the crowd of crocodilas on the pillar at She axtreme left of
the E. or antral-ace wall.

The ‘24 Columns of the portico are specially noteworthy on ac—
count of the shapes of their capitals, some of which are overladan
with ornament. 0f the columns, 18 stand (letsched, whim 6, m-
wards the from, are built into the outer wall. All tha columns have
ﬂat plinths, and shafts. moat elaborately axial-11951 with inscriptions.
The Capitabs are 0! various shapas and of unequal height, but this
lrregulariiy does not. (xii-and the) eye owing to the fact that the annuli
of all the columns am arrangeé so as m lia in the same burimnml
plane. Most of them baking m the calyx order, and are not adorned
merely mm painting as a: Kamak or the Ramasseum, but with

richly carved omamants from the: vegetable: kingdom.

We begin Wick the froni row‘ reckon-34:1 from ihu right (It). 0919mm
LS: Your petals, separated at the to , surreuné the calyx, which is or—
namented with marsh-planes ané mus rooms. — 7-12 (aesond row): calyceu
with than!” horizontal section, adornud with palmgtwign and mm: {w
huge. —» 15 {beginning cf third raw. to the right), can wiah palm-twigs.
M 1447: Only: with foliage. — 18. Smooth calyx-capital, in circular 1m~
rlzoncal sectien, adorned with palm—twigs nmongat whit): Appen- 1:1 mm:
grafuslon of ill kinds of fruit, as nanny grapes and ﬁnes. ~— iﬁ, 90 (No
1m. to the: right, ac the resu- wail : Calyx-capsule, with margin-plum ——
ill-iii: Guiyang n‘n the bus or" 3»; £ch are fruits in HM work, inﬁrm ted
by leaves, towards ﬁlm top, a network of glands:- lanvh‘onds. m'Jl: be
blue of me capital is formed of hazard“: vegan :9 forms in “agent“
Page-299
to Edfu. ESKEE 22. House. 235

lnvishnnsa, tho 353mg of which, of «amidst-able thickness, surround the
top of the shaft. The leaves lying again: the; uppar part of the calyx are
of n éxuggei‘med coarseness.

In connection with ﬁle whole of which they form a part, these
capitals promos an impression of great- richness; while; regarded
separately they may in} lakon us syecimms of the mcoco pariod in
Egyytlan art, if the phrase maiy he parmlttewl. ~— The Omanimt on
the from and back walls is sunk into the wall (‘Ieliaf en creax');
the slda-wslls and columns wore on tho other hand mlomad with
baSv-raliafs. m The Cciling is occupied with a-rich profusion of
astronomical xepressniatiens.

The small prm Church in tho town contains little of interest.

As in most Joachim churches, lhe Nave is divided inlay two parts by
three nrchea. Behind the woonlen screen», which are tastefully inlaid will;
ivory and mathervnﬂpeax‘l, lie»; the nnnciuary, in {our parts; T725 ﬁgures
of the suinla are poor and comparatively modern. ‘l’hsy repruent St. George
sud the dragon, St. Michael, the Madonna and Child, and an Aacenalon.

The Palace of the Khedive {Kay Efmd‘i‘nah), built by Mohammad
“Ali, lies near the Nile, to the N. of the town. Th6 buildings, in-
cluding a handsome rotunala, am much neglectad, but the gardens,
with their profusion of roses, lemonmcxesa, anti orangemtreas, an:
very attractive. The gardener, wile usually presents the visitor with
a nosegay, expects a small gratuity (about 4 pushes).

The Garry on the righ’l bank of 62m Nile? near elm Marliriyeh,
also contains some fragmentary inscdptiona of the Roman impa-
rlal epoch.

A Temple, which formerly awed alien! 2?]. 1!. so she N. of Ewan.
in now repmsanzecl only by a row fragments of columns, which ban: this
name of one of the emperors; and will; ll have disapxaeamd also the
beautiful zodiac and the lists of peoples, among which Macedonians and
Fenian» was mentioned. Thin lamp]; 9.00 wt: tiadicaiml to thum. - An.
uli‘xer km la, dating from the inter Ptolemies, stood on the W. bllnk apposim
Esneh ( loam; Lampolia); but. this was demolished before 13:30 and has
left no: u Luce behind.

Numerous memarials of an may christian civilization am still to Rm
{mead ln tho Ganvent of Animal“, which is eonsirlered the oldest con-
vent in Egypt and which was certainly fountied at a very early ﬂue,
possibly by the Empress Halens, Tim wulu ﬁnance from the town follows
alt ﬁrst an embankment towards the So, and than strikes 025‘ 20 the W.
across the ﬁelds. The Convent Library still contains numerous Coptic li-
lurglcul writings, some of them lying on the ﬂoor in a locked room, A.
visit to ﬁlm now abandoned cunvcnt, um key of which is kept by one of
the fellihin, is not without interest, for aha sake both of the curious SSS.
and of the anclem paintings and Coptic inscriptions. A cruel persecution
of tin; Chriaﬁiaus in said to have taken place n6 Esneli “mint Iiiozletian
u: the beginning of the 4th cent; and. the convent is said to have been
founded in honour of the martyr: who suffered here. According so other
accounts the Christians expound from Medina: Elihu by the Arabs wax-o
masswcd have.

Allow. 711;: M. to the NW. of Rank, on the road to el-Khﬁrgeh (p.
348), line the large ruined Convent of Puchomim, will: minim-(ma olegam‘.
mausolca,

Knob is sometimas selected as & starting-point. for journeys to the
W. on“ of Muse: and KMweA; as: R. 35,

Eanm'zln, 13% M. to the S. of Esneh on the W. bank. where

there are ancient riversemhankmems, is perhaps the armiem Khrus-