
Page-300
236 Rani: 22. EEwKAB. Fm: Tubs:

bis. 0:: the W. bank stretches as mm and fertile plain, on the
E. is {he ﬁnely Shayna Gebti Shemmh. Al. ell-Haw, on the E. bank.

appears the ﬁrst aamlaﬁone.

0n the W. bank, about 3].; hr. farmer to the 8., la the pyramid a!
eluxulnh, which now prasanis the seven: of a amp-pyramid, owing f0 {he
decay of the ﬁlling-in material. The enhance was on (he W. side. In
spite of its ruinous wndiilnn la in still “but 33ft. high, while its base
occupies an area ghoul. 55 ft square. Magneto recantly oanierl on exca-
vations here, which injured ﬁne building wiéhout yielding any imporian:
remit. As mete are no lnacrlpm‘ons it is difﬁcult to determine the date:
of its musty-deems.

18 M. El-XAb, on the E. bank, the ancient Eileitkyia. — The
staﬁan of the four week steamers [from 9 3.111. ta 2 pan.) and of
the mall-steamer is at Bagaliych, properly egnaguléMy-eh.

An old fulfil} apgeara to prnﬁ'ar his services as anon an a dha‘nx—
biyeh lands. lie is well-informed and providgs donkeys, thcugh with very
pom- saddlevcloths.

Half—and” suleCes for a ﬂying visit to the following: i. the
,‘Ruins of the ancient town; 2. the Rock Imaiptim; 3. the ‘Chapd
ofAmenhozep 111.,- 4. the Rack Tempei on“ the Ptolemies; and 5. the
*Tomb&. If so much time cannot be spared, the lee: should at least
be visited. The various monuments may be visited in She above
order as follows, We skirt the lmundary wall of the ancient town,
which is distinctly visible, then turn to the E. to (3/4 hr.) an isolated
hill, rising from the ylain, an the righ: side of which are most of the
rocknixlscﬁptions. At the and of this valley we turn a little to the
left. ta reach the chapel of Amenlmeep 111., with {em columns in
the interior. We here turn round, and following the. 3. well of the
more northerly chain of hills, teach the steps which lend. to the
rock—trample. We may then visit the small templa of Thom (called
by the Arabs al—Hammﬁm. ‘the man), or proceed to the tombs,
about 1 M. from the river.

The now vanished town of Hebem was celled by the Greeks

Eitcithyia c1- Leucothea (Pliny), aml 1n the inscriyﬁcns the Fortress
D a
Edam; , often with the surname of ‘ihe white sown'.

Q (
The interpretation of the name of the city and its gotldess as Nekheb
and Suben is pxobably wreng. The *(lnmm WALL is in excellent
preservation, and encloses a square the siﬂes of wblch my 700 yde.
long, with a 30ml clmumfere‘nce of 2800 yﬁs. The wall lmelfis of
immense thickness, 37 it. 9: 3.9 wide as a considerable street, and
is built: of huge sun—dried Nile-bricks. The savants of the French
Expedition estimated that the ancient town accommedated 10,000
inhabitants. Visiwm shouldx not cm“ in means the; broad ascent to
the top of the wall on the W. side, from which a good survey of the
tombs on the N. billwchaiu is also obtained. Ayperently only the
temples and public buildings, the ‘innsr city‘ﬁlondwﬂhln thawalls,
while various suburbs stretched beyond chem; 13:92:51: in times or
danger the entire population found refuge within the nmpuée. The
Page-301
to Earn. ELuKAB. 22. Route. 237

tomple was destroyed only a few months before Champollion’s ar—
rival at sI—Kéb 1111829, and only a few scanty traces of it (s basin,
some faint lsiexoglyphica, stag) are now loft: The swampy? which
stood within the wall; was «lsdlcatod to Sabsk and Hebent and
existed even under the 18th Dynasty. Champolllon saw here the
nationalist; of Tutmss 11., Bamako, Amenhotep ML, two sconos in
which Ramses 11'. did homage) to Soho}; and Reboot, and Halaoris
and Nectanobus I. from law: times. The town itself was founded at
a much earlier date, sné in fact is, as we shall see, one of the very
oldest in Egypt. It existed even under tins ancient empire. During
the period of the Hyksos it was scarcely loss conspicuously than
Thelma tho rosidanca of the legitimatePharaohs who had been driven
towards the S. The most. important monuments for the history of
the ﬂeeing of Egypt from the foreign domination are to be found
here.

ROCK Inscmwmxs. w— The routs loads due E. from the E. gate»
way in the girdle—wall, and crosses the dazzingly white ssnd, past
a small ruined Temple close to the wall. In ratha: more than 1/2 hr.
we wash the small temple of Thom, known 1.0 the Arabs as el-
yammém (p. 239). We keep straight on, lowing the larger temple
of the Piolamlss on the left, and soon resell two Rocks projecting
from the plain, at the yoint where the road turns N. towazds the:
desert, halfway between elslgammém and the E. temple of Amen-v
hotop III. Both rocks boo: numerous inscriptions, most of which
use the hieratic contractions. The royal names of Pepi and Tess.
refer those to the 3th Dynasty. Tbs inscrigtions are chiefly names
OI priests and their sons, who probably selected this spot for the
consummation of the sacriﬁces to the after—world. AL all events there

are but, few roglrosomstlons of offerings to tho local goédoss ; (5 j

Habent—Eileitluyia. Them me also some brief prayers. 0n the
saw: side of tho large: rock is a very intaresting Figure of am An-
cient King, with ham head, shove which hovers the (liso with the
Usans—ssrgent.

The small temple or CHAPEL op Aussmom III. lies hilly 1/; hr.
to tho E. 2 may be reached. éirect in about an hour from the Nile,
though the slxséeless route, especially at midday, is somewhat fail“
gning. The little temple which is nearly 50 ft. deep is of consular»
able intarest from the artistic forms which it displays. The small
Celia [221/3 by 19 in) stand! upon 5 paved platform, which was at
one time surroundaé by a wall of freostono, The gateway still
stands, and was formerly oonnaotetl with the sanctuazy proper by a
passage, at tho sides of which stood smooth columns with calyx»
capitals.

. The Imumon of the calls forms a. single octagonal o‘nambor, tho roof
of whim is supported by iam- 5i£5een~5ideé columns. An éltiempt wus

made, as we hays already mind at Dér sl—bagxri, to continue this oolumn-,
form of the “union: monarchy, along with the plastic :1 and: of the
Page-302
238 Route 2‘2. EL—KKB. From That-ea

architecture of the new mgngrchy; and we here see3 in place of the 6&-
pitul nut the central yaasage the mask of the goddsu Hathur, with he:
cows” aura and head~drcss. 1"Elm front of a small portable temple with
handles, whiz}; rested an the head of the goddess, was placad on the sht-
unu, ind npon this rested the architnve. The mask of Eamon hens 8p—
pears only on (ma side of the capital; at Dar ul-balu-i it append-a on two
sides. This Artistic farm was afterwards abandoned, but. was again re-
vived by Eekhtneb-f (Nastuebus 11.}, a rival King to the Persians, be-
longing to tbs 30m Hym, who loud to wmpare himaelf t0 the @398”an
of the Sykaoa, and who that-ohms rum-ted to the art-forms intrcdnmd by
them. Finally under the Ptolemies this form was developed into a» capital
in the fullest sense of the term. The masks are: hex-a united with the
plinth; by means of 17. vertical Ornamial Siripa, covering two of tin
sides of the olygomi ahaﬂs and adorned with inscriptignst As each cf
the sixteen a gen er faces of the columns measures 6 inches in breadth,
the stripe is 10 inches in hmadtn, w On tha walls at tnc knight of the
srchitravee. beneath the roof, 3 pear other Esther masks‘ sltamating
with the names of the royal bu ldm. Amenhotep III. dedicated to his
father Tut/net IV. the chapel of the gmlduﬂs Hebenz, wlm hex-e uppears ba-
aide AmmomRa in place of Kathi Both hieroglyphiag and yictures aw
“in the fraannaes of their colours. Tits former represent the ranking of
allerings, 0n the aids with the door appear two lions, like door-keeps”,
beams lnuuhraticna of late:- travellers in damctic chsracters.
0n the Fawde of this chapel, Khmem—w, chief—priest of Ptah

M
P, k G g, and Ramses 11's favourite sum whom; mummy WM
.n a

tonne! in the Sergpenzn at Kemphis, has ucmmsmomted himself. He came
hither in the hat year (If his father‘a mign, to attend the ﬁfth gxeat
festival held in honour of Ecbant. On the mar (toothpaste Kati I. —-
Another Inscription in clear hieroglyphies must be mentianad new. It is
nentainly the latest foumi in Egypt, and was aunt-ma to Habeni, ‘in the
Sikh year of big majegty, lard of 110th worlds Kn 0100!: III.”

aﬂggwm M495

    

(E) m o m :
It was engraved! fix the rock by a eeleﬁnate young gyptologiat,
whose mama we aupyroaa.

At this chayel we turn, direct our stays towanls tlm Nile, and in

1,34 hr. teach the Boon TEMPLE, on the tight; side of the vallay, re»
cogniza‘nle item a. distance by the Emir leading up to it. Th5 latter
consists of 41 steps hem in the rock, with a massive balustmie
on each minim The mmpla ms constructed under l’mlemy IX;
Eustgetes II. [Physkon), mil snbsequantly provldmi with MW in-
scriptions by Ptolemy X. Sate: II. The site was regarded as holy
even bufom the building Was erected, as we are informed by an in-
snription of the reign of Ramses Vi, cut in the rock on the E, side

of the door leading into the meuiitain.

The Rock {member has a vaulted ceiling covernxi with stucco, anti,
being the sanctuary of the temple, was mnstrnctsd culls: than thg pra‘
ceding chambers to which the stair leads The latter farm two puts.
On reaching the top of the: stair, we p584 through a éuorway to a Ibra-
é‘ourl, not quite 33 ft. wide, the exteticr sides of which were bounﬂed by
law walla built between columns. Two rows of columns in the centre led
to‘the dear of a smallar Hull (only 19 ft. wide) of curiaus construction,
lacing bnunded on than: right and left by four low walls, uf which much
was built in between a. pillar and a autumn. The dom- lending in tha

rock-chamber opened at the back of this ban. Thu unctuuy 5159 W»
especially deﬂated. to Hebent.
Page-303
la Esra. ELUKELB. 22. Rom. 239

The SMALL TEMPLE below, farms: to the S.W. in the valley, ls
in geod preservation. but ll: is only 16 ft; high and 27 ft. deep. The

Arms call It el—Eammdm, i.e. the Bath.

As the walls are about 3 EL thick the Inlet-(er is very small. On the
lei“. and back walls is a small window. at some height from the ground.
Thom, Hebent and Horns, the gods here worship ed. are reyresentml as
fanning a tri . In the. doorway is the Phat»): 0 axing laminae balaw;
{uni a nynonepl’mlnr with the moon—aiskle 5nd disc on his her. , above.
It was to be expetted that the sacred animus lbs: symbolize the (guilds:
or That}: should be found represented here slang with the meangoddcss
Hellcat.

”Roux-Toms. A (lonksy is not: necessary for a visit ta mesa.

They are reached in about1/4hr. from the usual lsnrling-plsca of
the Nile boats; and the last few minutes’ climb up the hill-slaps
on which the tombs lia, must be secomplished on foot. The

Shaﬂs, found both outside and lnslda the tombs, require caution.

These. Tombs: hewn side. by side in the rack. are, like all the monu-
ments st gl~KAb. of small dimensions. but their disslnci; pictures of an-
cient Egyptian somesnc life will interest even those travellers who have
alraady seen tbs tombs of Benihasan and hunt al~§iurnan One of lhs
Inscription: (in the tomb 0f the ship-cantaln Aahmes, see p. 245.) is of the
greatest scientiﬁc importance, partly on account of the contemporary
narrative of the expulsion 0f the Bylaws which it contains, partly on
account of the simple and intelligible style; in which it is axpresseé. I!
has been critically translated and analysed (by E. «is Rougé) as the ﬁn!
of all the larger inscriptions. — ﬂoat of the lambs were constructed be"
few, during, or shortly after the rule of the Eyksos, for mala and female
members of noble families, who éischsrged the peaceful duties of chief
nriesls of Hehent or of tutors anti nurses to the royal princes. Them
alt-n- 31 tombs in all, but only 13 have inscriptions and nnly 6 repay a visit.

We ﬁrst enter the third inscribed tomb, counting from the E.,
which is cons icuons by its wills cpening. This belonged to 1:215

overseer ( , of eluKsb, the serlbs (La. Shunt". Pihari
“—9 ’

K Q “Q grandson (daughter’s son) of the shin-master
1 O

Aahmsa. ion ofAb’na, whose tamb HOS farther to the left (WJ, It is
distinguished by a series of representations from the life and burial

of the deceased, on both sides of the tomb.

To the left (W) of the entrance appears the degassed with his stall
(3f office in his right hand and a long stick in his Mt; behind him stznd
{hr-ct: servants. The: accompanying inscriptlan is: ‘Tha inspection of the
labours of all masons of ma yen. which take» place in tbs ﬁslds. by the
overseer of Reheat (el-Kib) by the manager ofAnlt (Esneh)‘. — The La-
bonrl of ill: Field are next represented in Llu-es registrars, beginning from
beneath. In the lnwest row: a cart. drawn by two horses. snowing tlmt
horses ware need by the Eg ’inns as early as its beginning or" the 18th
33:23.; ﬁlling the ground. with hoe and plough, planghing and sawing —
Hiddlu mw: limping, the grain being nut nut close) to the ground but
one‘lhinl or one-half way up the stalk; vessels with refreshments for
the workers are represented, 5nd kept cool by a screen; binding aha
uhaavss; reaping or pressing the fruits of ill: earth. ~— To]: row: Esra of
com carried away in baskets; threshing by means ofuxen; yiliug up the
fruits or” the earth; packing them in sacks or storing them an granny-max
Above “Ml oxen treading out the corn in the follewing song, inscnbcd
alga in the tombs cf Benllmsan (n. 12) and Salflgﬁrnh: m
Page-304
240 Rouée 22. ELL—RAB, Fran; Tm“

Thrash for yourselves,

Three): for yam-seine,

Oxen {mosh

Far yourselves. Thrash

For yuurleivee. Tim sirﬁw

Remains far you to eat.

The grain is for yen:- maazers.

Du not 33% wear!“

Nana steal over your hurt. There is abundanee to drink!

in the series below these, Him“ is seen with a back in which he is
writing, before him a inrge writing apparatus. Th5 newm haying inscrip-
ﬁion is: ‘Remrding the number of name by them-events» of nit, tile director
of the ﬁelds of‘the 5. district, from the tem [a of Hefner (Aphroditopom,
p. 281) w el-Kab.‘ — Then {allow castle o vex-ions kinda, calves, oxen,
lessee; aevaral of theme being prepared E0.- mu tabla m- in: Saarinen; :- ﬁre»
placu. Hex: appears Pihari, eeated and inspectin the weighing and ship—
ping of gold which is Enemy made into rings. ‘arﬂrer to the right‘ the
catching and we Mimi;z of ﬂab and «ism of poultry, Pihari Handing and
Making 011. _ A ova ihari beers on his lnp the young prince Human,
leeond son of king Anhmee (163035.er whose nnree (it. Liner] he is
named. Pihari with his wife At rum: , in a. bower, receiving fruit.
Grapes are being gaﬁbarod, and troddnn out in a wine»press by nuaie
ﬁgures, holding cards as they warn.

The remaining paintings iilnairaie {he Burial of Pillar-i, when cofﬁn
is drawn upon a niadgn. 0n tint righi wail Pihari and his wife rm've
an misting made by their son Arum-ma, who is clad in a. leopnrd's-s .
Beneath the chair is a cynooepheiua. Behind Amonmee the mourning
friends are seated in Wm divisions. A: the head. of each division is a
seated max-rim couyie, and then two raw: of relatives, father, mower,
grandfather. grandmother. brothers, sisters, and sank; above is the ship-
master Animus, son of A‘ima wiih his wife; below is Ateﬁera the nurse
of King Ham-neg, end at the not, female mneieianu And a femnle ban-per.

Of the tombs to the right that ofziahmu summed Pm hebw or
Pen when is noteworthy, not- only because two stones from the hue
of a ammo with historical inscriptions {now in iii-3 Louvre] were
found bare and because a statue oanhmes was discovereii in 1.853 in
the ruins of ei—Kib, but also because ﬁe services rendered by the
deceased to the kings of the 18th Dyn. and the rewards he received
aw recorded an the right and left of tin) anti-anon, as well as on the
stones abovwmentioned. The kings mentioned are Aehmaa, Alanna
hotep 1., Taiwan 1., 11., and EL, and Queen Remake, with her son

and daughter. See Lepsine’s Denkmiier 111, 436.

From these inscriptions we lesm the: AW, sumamed Pen Mes,
fniiﬁwed the kings of the 18m Dyn. from :55an £0 Tamas iii. on their
various campuigne tn Zahi. Kuell, Nahnrinn, and again: this Bhnn, .md
that he captured men, heme, and wan-inn;i far which he received. rich
gifta. In thismmb in also eummeznormed the royal prime Amhelep, enr-

 

\
namud Ilapu, chief @ D tsp) of El Keb, whuee lather, grandfaiher!

F: I
and greet-grandfather also new she name dignity. Probibiy this Amen-
lmtap reposmi also in this tomb.

To the left 0f the tomb of Psnm, which we inspected ﬁrst, is
that of Satan, whose (ianghier‘s husband Ramses Nehhiu in a» leopard!
skin brings to him the oﬁeﬁngs of the high—priests. A. amen! of
relatives, inciuéing Hui, another son—in—iew, is also represented.
In this comb mention is maria of the 4th yes: of a kingﬁamei’erka .. .,
Page-305
to Elia. EL-KAB. ‘22. Route. 241

whose name also occurs with Aahmes‘, Binpu, and 3 king Suazsn
on the pedestal of a statuette of Harpoerates, new in the museum
at Gizeh. Those, with the exception, of course,'eanh1nes, were
probably provincial or local kings. Above some ships in «the left.
part of ﬁre tomb a festival of Ramses III. is mentioned, yrobably a
later addition. According to Maspere this tomb dates from the
20th Dynasty.

Farther to the left lies the tomb of Aalames, Chief of like Sailom,
the son of A6754 and her husbami Babe. who was the maternal
grandfather 0f Fiber-i. The Fumreal Inscription is carved in the
rock iusiead 0! being painted on stucco , a. fact which lends great
importance to this tomb.

The inner-Ewing sever-s nearly the whole wall to the right, as we
enter, sharing rt with the ﬁgure of the deceased. Ashmea appears with
.4in his wife, seated in a chair beneath which cowere a pal. monkey;
before them stund ihair daughter‘s sun Pillar-i1 who caused this (:0an to
be adorned for his gallant grandfather. Beneash is enema: Pit’iarq allering
sacriﬁce so his father Harani and. his wife, and beneath him again are
three sons, inaludlng yet number Elam", Beside the door t9 the side-
ehamber- is another dadicaiion m Aahmes, the chief of the sailors. frum
his grandson Pihari (p. 239), to keey his tummy green in this spot. The
biagmphy of Aahmee Elms begins: ‘Aalxmas (Amenis), commander of the
sailors, mm of the late Alma, s mks: I epeak to you, all ye penple. Lam-u
tine marks of honour which fill to my share; for I was distinguished
snven times with the golden necklace, in the presence of the whole coun-
t.y . . . Male and female slaves were my own (the names a! the slaves
presented to Aahmes are inscribed on the outside of the tomb), and I
received many ﬁelds. The name of a great here which be (me speaker)
wen for himself, will navermore be obscured in this land, He speaks:
I was born in the town of Reheat. eithvie); my father was a colonel
under the hue king Easekenen (Vol 1., p. 89), and was nameﬁ Balm, son
of Bonn; then I served in his Mend as captain on buard the ship “The
Yuung 01’, in the reign of Ra»neb«pahli (in. Aahmcs 1.). I was young
and unmarried am‘l slept on the couch of he Khenau (perhaps those ex-
elﬁded from the dwelling of the married, it. bachelors}. But afierlemi
founded a. household (taken a wife); I batoek rnyseif to ﬁght in the N.
ﬂeet. Then 1 followed the king on foe:g when he mounted his war-
cheriot. When the fortress ef Ila—war (Alma-is, a stronghold of me Eyksea,
Vul. L, p. 89) we; benieged, 'I had to ﬁght on for): before the king. Than
I was appointed to line ship ‘Kha em Mannefer’ {Ascent in Memphis}; we
fought in me arm of the river at Abaris and I acquired horny and won
a. hand (of a slaughtered enemy). This was reporied to ﬁlm ofﬁcer of the
king, and 1 received the gnldeu necklace for velour. Another contest Cock
place an the same spot and I wee again awarded the golden necklace fur
valour‘. AaL-mee was decerated a third time at Tukeml, h,- the S. of the
fur-tress. ‘Aburie was éaken and I captured there in 3114 persons, a man
and 3wcmcn; Hie M-‘esty assigned them to me as slaves‘. — The next
lines inform us that a hr the king had captured the fortress of the ﬂyk~
so: and overcome the, nomadic. triben, he carried on war with the tribes
of the 5., in which Aahmcs took part and won fresh Mamie. He served
also under Amanhotep I. end Tulmee I. Under the lust-named prince the
Egyptian army penezrused far into Asia, The inacriptiun gone on: ‘Themr
upon his majesty so: out for Syria (Knish), in order to reduce the maples
to his good pleasure. He reached Mescpotemis (ﬁsheries). His Meu'esty.
the living, Round, and strong one. mei ihis wretehml (me (the prince of
Heeopntamia), and undertonk the attack. The king wrought terrible hm—
ehery among them; and she prisoners taken alive by His Majesty were
innumeralwle. 1 was presenl as colonel of my :oldlera, and His Kenny
praiaed my savory. l captured a waxw‘mnoz, w‘ll; its 1; _ him

BASDEKERM L'pyer Egypt.
Page-306
242 Route 22, EL-Kis.

wlm stood in it; I led them as living taptives ta His Meaty, and once
mars was awarded the galdm necklace; I have becoma great, I have
macheﬁ old age. . . I shall rest in the vault, which i have prepared
for myaelf'. \

The tcmb of 3mm, still further to the left (W4, contains
numsrous xepreaaniaﬁens of interest. The deceased, a sari of a lady
named Aa‘nmee and father of another Aahmes, was a wince (6:103
in.) and 3 lug; landed pmpxiatxnx. Tum obelisks seem in have stood
at {ha emxanca to this vault; and ihe statue of the rieeeaseé is to
be seen in its recess.

Th5 2-00! of the chapel in vaulmﬂ, and covered like the walls with a
thin scat ui’ amass, on which the represenmtiana and lnscn‘ptions were
painted‘ 0n the right wall are the: funual of Ronni and other scenes
connected with his death, while on the left wall are scenes fmm eke life
of the deceased, who accompanied by his dog, surveys ‘uii possessions.
Here appear his marriage, his serfs ﬁrmed in killing the ground, and his
family in friendly union. Beside eaeh of me persons waited 0:: by tbs
servants of the deceased. appears his name and his relgﬂomhl ‘La she
head of tin: family, Among thug “vested: belsnging to Maui 1 )0 swine
are mentioned, a clmumsiance which appears somewhat surprising at
ﬁrst, for the ﬂesh of swine was an article af diet as striczly forbidﬁel:
to the Egyptians as to am Jewa. Emmi. buwnver was a prophet of
Reheat, and. had to provide swim in be sacriﬁced to tnis guide”, whiriil
accounts in: his possession of the osherwiae abhorred mimale. This re-
markable. circumstance did no: escapa ﬁlm notice of Herodotus, who
writas: "they sacriﬁce swine {0 no gods cxccgt Selene (gaddass of tha.
mean. ale. Reheat) and Dionysus; making ibis sacriﬁce to the moan al-
way» at full moon, at which time they also ea: swiue‘a ﬂesh. TheEgyp-
tians asaign a yurticular reason for abhor-ring swine at: oﬁlm- festivaia
and oﬁ‘ering them at this one, but although I know it I am not germitieé
to reveal if. Eerodeiua was bound by an oath not to reveal the myalery,
from which, however, we may be: able to lift the veil by a study of the
monumental It is rclaled that Typhcn (Seth), while hunting by moonlighg
fell in with the cofﬁn of Osiris, am‘l hewed me semis into 14 parts, 6.2.
the it} xr'glxts 0! 12:6 Waxing 3nd Waning moon. This orb in eslietl Hie
leﬁ; eye of Horus. and, as the inscriptions explain; if. was in jenpardy
cm the 1515: night, to. the time of the full mean It 31541 been abserved
that eclipse: of the mom: misused the light only of the full moon, and
thus arose the myth than Seth Typhon, in the form of a awiae, nuanka
the orb of night at we full moon and endeavaura to swallow it. The
ﬁesire of mining the enemy of the moon and of assisting :he inter in
he: contra! against the Animal that seeks to devour her, ﬁnds symbolicul
Pxpressiou in the slaugl’mzr ofswine at the. time 0f this nnw moon. Flimsy

ether Egyptian customs we also to be explkined by reference to we
contest betwixt Ham: and Seth.

The last three tombs farther m the left (WJ apyear to (late from
:he 13th Dyn., and are therefore much mare ancient than thosa
just described, unless we ragazd the 14-17:); Dyn. as ruling in
Upper Egyyt contemporanacusly with ﬁne Hyksos la Lame: Egypt.
The ﬁrst was erected to a lmiy named Sabekmﬁ‘u, by her father
Balm, who possibly himself is _buried here too. Sebelmefm was

;QQ 5mm am, 5.6. belunging to the king’s eourt.

_ Bmgnc}: has puixlinhed the contents of a ﬁeld from the resrwnil of
this tomb. in which Bel}; recarda she great size of his household, and
aim hie distributlgn of grain during a longwuntlnued fuming. Ta recog-
nue in thlethoweves, a reference :0 the famine was brought Jose ‘3
brethren 19 Egypt, is entirely gratuitcum 1n the last Gm Rm,
Page-307
EDFU. 23, Rome. 243

belonging it) the prince Salami there occurs an actual menliun of 3 king
F .=
of the 13th Dyan, vi: 0
\. =

The tomb between me two last—men: one elengs to a lady named Sebakks’,
perhaps :5 wife of Bebe.

0n the W. bank apposite aIv-Kﬁb, on a hill abmxt 3 Bl. from ﬁlm Nile,
are the parﬁly destmyed rock‘tombs of Kbm el—Algmu {‘Red Him, dating
from the lime of Tuzmea 1. Landing at Ghemawweh, We precede thence
due E. through the ﬁeld viﬁ($0131in.)xiﬂm€aﬁl, in 20 min. more We reach
Kdm ei-Afmmrl en the site of the ancient town (mentioned by She-bu) of
Hieraconpolis ( City ofhawke’}, Egypt. Kamhew, with the town AER/zen © @
or . The {hree hawks are Home, Tuamutef, and Kebsenuf. A

Ravnkhemq-uaz-taﬂ .

 

hawk is elm! named in the iombs as a. local god. The mum, of Faer-
teeen wee not found on the heaps of rubbish in 1885 by Prufeesor Risen.
10hr. — Also“: V; E. farther to $115 )3; begins the desert, anal 1!: Bl.
farther is the ancient Ruman fort of Seﬂan, on which large vultures fre~
anemly perch. In '2!) min. mare we begin to meant the hill with the
tombs. There are altagezher eight tombs, GI whit}: an}: the ﬁrst :0 the
right (Till) and 9119. ﬁrst to the leﬁ (ﬂm‘amss, chief priest of Bieracﬁnpolii}
repay a. visit The former couhﬁns a wall—preserved stein of the time
of Tutmee 1,; outside the letter. to .9 right, dancinggirls were painted.
Not long Ago three black granite we use were found. here, will: the names
of Kings Pepi {6m Dyu.). Revklia-kheper (Unericeeu 11.}, and Ewen—mat
(Amenemha 111,, 12th Dye.) These are new in the museum at Gizeh.
13% 36. Item el-Kﬁ‘b is Edfu. on the W. bank.

133. Edfn.

Edfu is a steamboat-steam. The Has‘isuamu arriving on Tues. and
Frid. at 8.33 am. hall here for ill/2 1mm, the Tennis: Magma": spend a
nighi here on their upwardjoumey. Tourism on a. three-weeks tour visi'.
the temple en the evening 0! men arrival (ilzh day, F111): {nose en a
four-weeks Lom' visit it the next morning. Steamers du not stop here
on the downward voyage. Tina halt of the maileieamera gives hardly
time even for a hasty visit to the temple, especially as the letter lien
20 min. from the landing-place.

Those who travel in their own dhnhalviyeh should spend two days all
Edie, bringing their provisixms from the hon: to the mingle. Egyptologists,
who may ﬁnd materiel {G occupy them here fer days and weeks, will abtain.
if uewsaary, poor lodging and scanty {are in me Poslﬂ’nme, 1/; H. to ihe
E. of the lemma. inwufrpnwder slumirl in this case nm‘. be forgotten;
and. wine anti preserved meat should. be Draught from Luxor‘

Donkeys and horses are to be had at me Landing-Mace. Camels may
else be obtained. Riders unaccustomed to the latter animals must be
careful no: to fall forward when the camel kneels down.

The way to the temple lands almost due W. from the landing—
plecc, than, turning to the N. (right), skirts the Canal of Edfu and
crosses it by a good new bridge. It then proceeds to the W. through
several streets and ﬁnally turns N. again for a slum distance. ...
Another route leads straight on from the lending~piece, bands to
the light through ﬁelds, and than txaverses the streets of the town
without crossing the canal.

A ﬂight of stays descends to the massive Pylam of the temple
(3). M9). As at Esneh (p. 23%) the accumulated rubb‘ h_ £ enn

: . n

D
Page-308
244 Rome 23. EDFU. Hows-

turies has heaped itself alumna the: temple; and luiar dwcllings
have bcen erected on the top of aarlier ones. This alone can axplain
how the temple is now at a much lower level than the surrounding
village.

The Building presented a very aiﬁ’erent appearance only ihirty years
ago. Aral: houses stood upon the temple itself and were built agsiusi
in; walls) The interior was ﬁllad with rubbish almnut up to the capimla
of the columns, and the outsids was equally deeply burieél A picture of
the cdillce as it than was may be scan in plates 49 and 55 in the ﬁns
volume of the Antiquiiés in the. Deccn‘pﬁm dc l’mypls. in the beginning
a! (he sixties, however, the entire temple was laid bare by Mariette under
the auspices of the Khedive, and the buildings clustering upon and wound
it were removed, Now the tan-p12 (If Edru is $66!; in wailderful, almost
perfect preservaii my exceeding that of any other Egyptian (maple or even
of any antique building in the World, in spite of abs 2M1: years than
have passed over it. From top to bottom it is covered will: repreaew
(aliens and remarkablclnscripticns, the inlerpretalion a! which was
reserved for the preseni cenim’y, so rich in- discoveries of every kind.

The “Tample of EM“ is supnrim to the iamgila at Dendarah in
the much greater distinetness of its sculptural reliefs anti inscrip—
tions, due probably to the use of better sandstone than that (if
Dcndcrah which contains more lime. It is also much mom complme,
for in addition in chambers corresponding is those fauna at Danm
derail, more are it E1de a. passage running round the temple and
a lofty wall enclosing the latter, besides a spacious fore—court; and.
two massive pylons. (Comp. the accompanying Plan with ihai of

Dmdcrah at 1), 80)

The inscriplions in the templa at Edit: have been ublishad in
ll‘imichen‘s Alldﬂlp! P‘s Tempelmschrs‘ﬂeﬂ {113 plates; 18 3). the geo-
grngmicsl inscriplicus in his 3mm“! dc momma“: nggmem and in J. de
Range'a Edﬁx, from notes lly hi2; father E, de Rougé (1 ). The last-
named war-k, however, has many «gm-org. The important Buildern‘ In-
scriptions are m be found in the Awpﬁacﬁa Zemchw’! 1‘0:- 187041-7345,
and in Brugscb‘n Kmlmderimchre'ﬂw (Thesaurus 11.}. Mona. Nae-me of
Geneva has published the text of the baiéles cf Hex-us at Edfn, and Lap»
mu the ﬁrst. three of the ﬂeld-iexia.

The modem Arabic name of the village of Edfu. is derived from
the Coptic wxﬁm , fanned in its turn from the oldnEgyptiau

A j gi‘ebu, the manic given in the inscriptions w the matropel‘ls

(If the second district of Upper Egypt. This district, nameﬁ Tea-
It’ou tie“ the district. of the raising of lilomzsgL the Apolimopomes
of Greek coins7 was inmmlled on ilm S. by the Nomaa Nubia, the
capiial of which was Ii'le‘pkamim1 and on {he N. by Latopolitea,
ibis capiial of which WAS Sent, the modem Ewell. In the great war
of the gcds waged by Ramﬂelics and his ccmyanlons against the
evil Seth-Typhon and his allied (lemmas, ﬂu) pﬂncipnl champicn is
use grease Horus-Ayallo, who destroys the enemies of-Ra. The
scam of the ﬁrst masking of ﬁne hostile gods, of their ﬁrst grant

1: ‘Beuuse the goddess‘ his has raised (ins) he: Home in the {own
of the raising {lea}, its clue! name has become town 61' the rafting 0f
Horus (manner-)1 ~~~~~ From an inscripiinn on the N. girdlé~
Page-309
000“...

”3%: iii?

  

L"
D

    
    

 

unnnc TDHDI I? AT PHI-H
Page-310

Page-311
Tmph. EDFU. - 23. 3092:. 245

battle, is traditionally mm in the name at Apoliinopo‘ris. An in-
scription relating to this Horua myth, on the inshle of the “H
girdln—wall, states that ‘they reached Seth—Typhon and his (term
Inmions in the mum of Ayeuinopolis‘.

Earns emerged victorious from this bank, and the evil Set —
Tyghon was pierced by him Ctehu}. ‘Pierser thereupon became his
name, and ‘piace of the piercing” the name of his district uni town.
This name is cleariy presarved in the modem nama Edfu». An-
other name, that occurs most freqnantly next to this one and has
also referencn to 1.1m chief deity of the temple at Edfn, is Hut or
Behui. Thus the winged sun-disc, which was placer} ever the en—
trance to every Egyptian temple, was named

:Qﬂiaﬁﬁ 3T?

Behut nuts: 3; net: inert Eh §u.t1 per em khu t

‘Hn‘t, tha great 3011, the Kurd of hsaven , whh, clad in bright plum-
age, com“ forﬂl {mm thva sun—mmintain’.

Another name for the wingad sunndtsc is .4525, which manns
‘ﬂying3 and ‘Vﬁngﬁ‘.

At the head of the gmis worshipped at Edfu stood, as is appa—
rent from what has aireaviy been said, ‘ﬂorns, who spreads his
wings, iha great god, the lord of heaven, whu, clad in bright plum-
agn, comes forth out of the bun—mountain‘. Next in him rank the
Hathor of Denderah; who undertook a special ﬁesta} journey to Edfu,
Ahi, son of Hathor, Osiris7 Isis, Nephth‘ys, Ska, and Tefnui.

History of the Temple. The reprosontaﬁens and inscriptions
(hut cover tho trails of the gram. temple of Horus at Edfu 1:13.09 it
beyond aoubt that the building in its present form. dates from the
genie-11 of the Ptelemies. Yet like the sanctuary of Hathor at- Den-
namh3 it is not an architectonic creation at that period, hut merely
a spiendid maturation of an earlier temple carried out under the
Lagidae. The Temple proper, 12.6 the sacred apartments exclu-
sive of the later hypostyle with its 18 columns [H E) and. o ’the
fcreacourt w: th its 39, cohrmns (PL K”), as well as o! the still later
gylons ana girtﬂt‘rwall, was beg“: by Ptolcmy III. Eucrgctes I. in
the 1021‘: year of his reign. It was ﬁnished. 93 years Enter, in the
‘28-th year of the reign of Ptolemy IX. Eucrgetea 11., anti the 18th
’Mesori in that year was 11de by the priests for its consacratlun,
as an imxlortant festival took place upon that day, The image of
Horus was. carried in sole-n processicn into the temple, and the
author of the builders’ inscriptions at Edfu, in describing this 50*
lamn entry, introduces the sad as astanished b" the magniﬁcence
that greeted him and moved by jay, as addressing his surround—
ings.1n his speech the god express! y states that the halls wars
renewed in their building", and that ‘commands went forth from
that: majesties to rebuild his house, an ediﬁce of ancient inns, :and
Page-312
246 Rome 23. - EDFU. Hams-

llls sandman, which had been raised by eheix ancestors, and to
maka it more magniﬁcent than before’.

An inatription (on the outside of the E. girdls—wmll) states that
this beautiful monument (the present lemple} 11y behind (La pro-
bably m the S, of) we building of his father; mother (on the in-
side of the same wall) recorﬁs that. tha foundation—stone was law
in the time of Ptah in the holy place of T93 Ho: for the God BA;
and a third {on the insida of the N. glnllemwall) informs us (on the
left] that the building was carried out ‘as it was in the plan of the
great writing that fall from heaven: to 1238 N. of Memphle’, and (on
the right) that 5this great wall was built according to the back of
the arrangement of temples, written by tile Khaki: Imhoiep, son of
the gall Piall’.

An inscription in (me of elm crypls at Bender-ah (Karlewc III, 78) 1935*
tions 3. {elm-1 journey of Kathe: from Baa'derah (p. 80) H) :be ‘emple of
Home 32. mm. This featival, which was established by Twines III.
(1600 3.03 took place M. the new moon of the; month Exniyhl.

The N303, still to be foumi in tlm holy of holies (p. 25$), hams
the name—Kings of Necunebus I. (373-360 13.0.) and probably
dates {mm the oxiginal temple. The dacument, inscribed on the
outside of the E. wall of tha lempla, relating to this glfm cf lands,
mentions King Darius as wall as Neccanebus la and Necianebus II.

as banefaamra of tha tampla.

Two accounts of the building of the present temple have come
down to us. The slim-mt (if these occurs on the oulside of the W.
wall of the temple payer, in the 539mm line of the laws: marginal
inscription, dating train the time oi Ptolemy 1X. 34111217,st 11.;
the other, at greater detail, in the one—line lower Marginal 1n-
uripla‘on, an the outslda of the W‘ girdle-wall. In the second in-
scription we mad as follows:

‘On this beautiful day Of the opening of the building in $31310le year
(supplied {ram zhe shorter inscription}, on me it: Epiphl (M. An; 23,
987 B.C.‘u, in the lime of Klng Ptolemy Ill. Euergetes 1. It was i faiths}
of the Sixth, when the interior of the ground was opened, tin: ill-M a! w
the feaiiuls of the Sixth of the ceremony of laying the foundation.

The king himself, 1:10ng with the goddess Bafekl), was engaged in ful-
ﬁlling the ceremony of laying the foundation of the adylum, the starting»
point far determlnlng lts hills. {:5 “dB-chambers (were enacted) in tlmir
places, carefully arranged by the wise Linen). The shared architects built
will: the lord 0f iha papyrus-writing. The great hall of the lemjllu was
ﬁnished, the sannuuy (meson) of [the goldea hawk was prepared, by the
1023: year, on the 7m Epiphl, in me reign oi King Funny 13’. Elsie-
yawr‘ {1: date cox-responding to Aug. 17,212 3.0.). Thus 2!) yaara (23? 13.0.
to 212 8.0.) were spent in erecting the: walls of the can: la

The decoration of the walls with hieroglyphic-,5 an reliefs and its
completion of elm gran gateway ind of ﬁlm swo doors m one of the India
arc nailed as follows:

‘The inscribing of its walls with well-executed sculpture of me
mules, the great onesi 9f His Hadesty, us! will: the ﬁgurss of she gods sud.
goddesses, the digniﬁed (mes of the shining any (an of m many nmas
of Edfa} Mu}. the: ﬁnishing of ice real door. and of She two wings of the
deny at its hall (FINN!) till the 1 2h year of His Majesty. (The lira: year
of Ytolemy IV. was me: 108m of ﬁlm Imelda: = 222 3.0., so Eh“ his
“5‘31 Ye“ ”TREND“ ‘0 2m 1313.) Then : revolmiun bwlm out, and it
Page-313
Temple. EDFL‘x’, 23. Bouts. 247

ems to pass that the inatigator cf thh rebels in the outlying lands had
his secret retreat from the city of the throne of the gods to the place
. . . . in the S. (One of the chambers of the temple, viz. Pl. V, was
mlietl ‘city of the {hr-0m: of the gods‘, but the phrase is here used to
describe the lawn of 1mm:- Thnt ended (nefriin ihe year 79 in the reign
cf the late King Ptolemy V. Epiphenes. after the king had. suppressed the
revoluticn in the land; beheld, his name is ofﬁcially please! in it‘ (the

tan lo).

gl'he inscription continues: ‘In the 5th year, 1/30 of the Shafthet (:22.
on the in of the month Tybi] of his beloved son, the late King Pto-
lemy Vll. Philometor, wax-a erected the great wooden door in the Hall 0!
the Strong Victor (one of the names of the hem 10 of Edfu), and the two
wings of the door of the Eel-hall (the name a? Hall D. with the 12 co-
lumns). Similarly what had been made in work in the interim of the
Chamber of Victory (to. Room I1 behind the adylum) in the 30th year
of this king was restored. The ﬁnishing of the hieroglyphics. and
with the graving tool, the decoration of the walls with a covering of
gold. this application 45f fhe colours, the ﬁnishing of the to ~ornament
at its wooden ﬂoors, the mhkihg of the door-stands of goo-i use, with
the metal hinges and locks, the ﬁxing of geld {slates 0n the wings of its
(lam-a, the ﬁnishing of the interior (if the temple-prewar with perfect work
by the heat artists 0f the time ~ these operations lasted until the 23th
year on the 18m day of the month Maser-i, under the late King Ptole-
my 1%. Eva-gates II. and his consort. ﬁlm regent Cleopatra III. This makes
a. period of 9-5 years from the ceremony of the ﬁrst hammerhtruke to the
team entry, the festival of the coasecration of she ancestral abode by
ﬁle Majesty to his divine lord, Home of Edfu, god Alli, the lord 0f
heaven, which is the great festival cf Tckhu. and has heen equalled by
nnthlng since the creation of the world to the present day‘.

The dates “vars shove as to the progress of the work are as fallow}: w
1. let T hi, th year of Ptol. V11. Philom. :- ard Feb. 176 RC.
2. ’ﬂxe 11 year (if the same king 5.52451 3.6.
3. ﬁlth Hesori. 28th year of Ptol. 1X. Energ. = 10th Se t, 142 RC.
Finally item the foundation-festival on 23rd Aug. 1 11.0. to the
rental entry on 10th Sept. “2 Bill. is a psi-led of 95 years.

The inscription next devotes some space to the descri lion of the
festival of the solemn entry of the god, and then goes on: n this beau-
tiful 3031: year, month Payni, 9th day, festival of the union of the mech-
god Osiris with the sun-gcd Ra, again the festival of a 6th of Payni, the
foundation was laid of the Khan: Hall (Pl. E, the 18-columned h3g1 ' yle ,
which him two aide-chapels within it (referring {umlmhly to t (a

   

   

small
chgmbers to the right and left of the portal, in the front wall), and the
roof at the sun-00$ who commands in heaven was completed ”in the
48th yew, month ﬁesori, 18th day (Le. Berri. 5, 1222 5.0.), which is its years,
2 months, 10 days from the {Guadation of the. hall ef the summon min
(another name far Hall E), which was laid on the 3th Payni in the
30th year of Ptolemy IX. (he. July ‘3, 140 3.0.). Thus from the founding
0f the. hall to the completion of the roof there elhpseri, as the inscription
correctly states. a space of 17 years? 2 months, 10 days, reckening to the
dedicatury festival 0! the noble Khan: hall, which took place on the day
of the ’l‘ekhu festival.

Fifteen deﬁnite dates are given in this important inscriptieh detailing
the history of the temple of Exit“. beginning with the foundationvcere-
many on the 72h Epiyhi in ﬁlm {Olin year of Ptolemy Ill. (‘23rri Aug.
237 BIZ). And ending with the year of Ptolemy X Soter 1135 ”marl
usumptiou of the government, viz. the 236th year of the Lagidee z: 89'3‘5
3.0. To these we may add 9. aixteunth‘ dating the ﬁnal cumpleticn of
the huge building. me an inscription given thrice inside the Fortal cf
the pylons and the colonnede of the fore~cuurt, we learn that the t'vw
hush-mounted wims of the door of the great vhms were erected on the
ﬂat Khoiai: in the 5th year of Ptolemy XIIL '20; Dionysus, and of his
sister and wife Cleopatra 'I'rypheena, 13:. an December 5th, 51' B C Thus
Page-314
248 Route 23 EDFU. Homa-

2116 comﬁlete rebuilding of the *emple at Ediu was asmmplished within
the yeti-3d of 180 years. 3 months. and 24 days.

As a kind of perulant or companion-piece to this tong hismrtcar
inscxiption of the W. girdle-wall, then appears maths: no less in-
teresting Inscription at the foot of the E. Girdle Wall (P1. k). This
sscond inscription, which has a total laugth of 2423' ancient Egyptian
ails, cumuins a summary seconnt of the whoie iempie, foilowed by
a. detailed description of each of its rooms. Like all dedicatoxy in-
scriptions of the kind, it begins with this name of ihe monarch
under whom the monument it rains m {in the pwssnt case, the

girlile— wall) was completed.

This inscription begins as follows: ‘The golden Horus, who shows
himself in hsavsn as 2316 wing spreading god of Edfu, clad in bright
plumage, he has taken possessicn of his abode . . . prepared by . . . P20-
lemy XL Aluxamder I.‘

”Ellis beauéifui large wail hehimi his temple 5.22119. sinia ni‘ his father‘ s
buildLng its 22:29:21: 2309139, its breadéh 902119, its height 20 the summit
530, thou thickness 01’ its foundabiau 59115. This monumem which was
erected by His Majesty and his father, is farmed like the min mountain
of heaven.‘ These dimensions cozrespend with measurements made by
the Writer.’1‘he length of the girdlevwail 2U the 13316113 was found to ba
2.23/2 f2 which rrskoning the. ancient Egyytian all M 1—3]; 22.!» equal to
230 ca 61118; breadth 1335/; S2. = 89. m cits height 351/: {13:29 5 slis , thick-
ness 61/2 2‘2. 6.3 1:02 quite 4 (instead of 5) e228.

W8 may new bsstow a. glance on tbs general annugement of the
temple as a whole. The main axis lies W. and 8., as is repaatediy

mentioned in the inscriptions referring to this point

T g: j Qﬁ[\: m, ‘fmm Orion [2113 S 8231*) 20 We Graze

Beat (2119?? Y‘i.cons261§aticn) ‘. The ear, " Eg', ptian architscts seem to
have been guidod by ﬁnesse two constellations in determining $219
orientation of any naw 23mph), as appears 2,0 be indicamé wish sums
cariainty by inscriptions at Eéﬁi. The laying of the foundation-
stmie of an early Egyptian tample was a ceramony of peculiar solem—
nity, in which the king himsalf. as has been cbservad in tbs ac-
count of Dendem’n (p. 86), took part; and even in the ease of
temples built at a time when the rulers ongypt had ceased to
share persunally in {bass ceremonies as 3.9. undar the Roman em-
perors who did “021276 in Egyyt at all , ﬁn) insoriyﬁous sﬁil some:
times speak in the old—fashioned style as though the monarch had
duly performed his part. An inscription slang the foot of the wall
in Hall D scales that ‘iiis Majesty in his proper psi-25m:i with his
hand (In this wooanan peg am} holding the line in his grasp, ﬂung
with the godéess Safekh, is to be foam! beside his measuring-in-
strument to determine the {cut corners of the temple at Edf‘u’. This
N and 8. axis divides the entire build‘n ng into a right and a left
(9): W. and E. ,Ihali", reckoned from Reomiﬁx .252), whiz: h accupias
2319 exact centre of 21m rear—wait of the tempie, and is ruined in
the insexiptions ‘dhidsr of 12m middla'. All. 2hr: walls and rooms
26 the right of this line [as we look 2 .) am: dsscribsd in 2.116 inscrip-
Page-315
Temple. EDFU. 23. Route. 249

rions as lying on the right in W. side, ané all to the left as lying
on the left or E. side.

The Pylon—Portal (Pl. G) forms a worthy introduction to the
temple, ﬂanked on Either side by a Quiver with sloping walls, about

100 ft. high. This is usually named. j k ITJ E'Mahet,
a

La. ‘portalwbuiléjng’, ‘enuancewhall‘, in the inscrlgtiens, a design
nation which is not unfrequently employed to include the entire
gatehouse and the twe towers, theugh the most usual term for the

®
entire: entrance—structure was [.3 ﬂ Bekhm, is.
.23 MW

‘tcwor‘, ‘wamhnmwer’.

This passage was formerly closed with a massive door with two
wings, The entire lefty gaiehonse is covered from my to bottom
and on all sides with reliefs and inscriptions, amongst which;
esgerially on the right and left, the colossal Figure of the King (Necks
Dionysus) is conspicuous, smiting his foes, whom he holds by the
hair, in presence 0:” Horns and Hathor‘ In two rows, above, the
king appears praying and offering sacriﬁces before the gods of Edfn.
—Below, on the left (W3; pylon, the king and queen conduct a
precession of representatives of the districts that yield gold, silver,
other metals3 precious stones; cosmetics, air”, and furnish them to
the temple. 0n the from. of the nylon towers axa four wide inciaians?
two on each side of the central portal. These were intended to
support the huge copper—mounted wooden poles with gilded tips,
which are illnntmted in 'Vol. 1., p. 168. One of the lower marginal
inscriptions states that these poles were intended at: Edfu to avert
the storms of heaven, and that they were adorned with gay ﬂags at
the topo

The pitch—dark iower Pylon Chambers on each side are entered
from ﬁne court by doors to the right and left. {If the yortal, and from
each of them an easy Staircase of 242 steps in 14 ﬂights ascsmls to
the Platforms of the towers. One of she towers should certainly be
ascentied, in syite of the numerous stages. The view from the top
is unusually attractive, commanding not. only the most imposing
survey of the temple—buildings, but also ranging over the surround—
ing country. The plain through which the Nile ﬂows, with its
verﬁmt amps and its villages fringeli with palms and mimosas,
framed by she desert—mountains in the riistanne, presents a M18118
of surprising beauty, especially when seen under the evening light.
that remiers the Egyptian landscaya so wonderfully distinct.

The Fate-Gonrt (Pl. E), which is hounﬁed in front by the
pylons, at the back by the hypastyle 1131! (P1. E), and on the right
arm left by the great girdlewwali, is A spacious court, paved with
broad ﬂags, and surroundari on its E, W.i and S. sirles with a cov»
ared colonnade of 32 columns, The inscriptions call. it variously
Page-316
250 Route 23. EDFU. Hom-

‘Usckhi aim ox court of the (Ia-Brings, uaekht kin? mSa-Hvr or com-e
of lbs; anyeamnce of the protecting Hams, usekhe en bekhen or court
of the pylons, and uaekha an tesnefm Ra-Khuez' or court of the sacml
boat a! the 3011 of the summonntain. Piglemy X. Solar 11. is name&
in the marginal inscriptions as the builder and ﬁnisher of ibis
court, in harmony with the great inscription an the W. girdlenwall.

Thr. lower marginal lnscrlylion on Wall 3 of the cmxrl. says of this
king: ‘Iie has built: tlm 6mm: of the Appearance of the ymtcciin Home
(usekht khi an Sn-Eor), the lord of the gods, as a copy of she guildiug
of the ann-meuntain with aha god of the sun‘mounlain, completed. in his
11 g in excellent work in geud sandsmne; alibi-lags 2am made ’zo his
div image in it‘. An inscription on the o poem. wall (Pl. 5) says of
the same king, that he built the Coma of Utl‘ermgi \naekhl intent} ‘in order
940 sacriﬁce to the aunvgod thrice a ﬂay'.

lletalled information is given in the inscriptions as to the size
of this fore—court, the height and thickness of its walls, the number
and shape of the columns, and the sine—(loom and main—portal. The
length is repeateély given 35 30 Egyptian 6115, the breadth as 80,
the height of the walls as 20, and their thicknsss as 5; measure—
manta, which taking the all as 13/4 ft. corrusyond tolerably closely
with measurements made on the spot (length 155') EL, breadth
138 ft, heighﬁ of wall Sill/’2 it, thickness 81/2 ft). The number of
the ‘columns, the great ones, erected in if] is col-really given as 32;
tllisir bmuéy and strength is extolled; and ﬁlm capitals and shafts
minutely described. The doors are also described in onlar, details
being sometimes given as to whether they had one or two wings, of
what weed they were) made, and whethe: they opened inwards or
outwarés. Besides tlm four sidendours of elm court anal ﬁne maln
portal batween elm pylons, the two deoxs hailing from. the) court to
the gate—towers am also described, as well as the door [PL (1} in
the 1". had! of the E. glxdla—wall and mother smaller 3.00:, nears!
the Ne and of line same wall3 landing to the Temple-Walk

The Bale}; of this some, forms, as has alieady been remarked?
the front of the Tangle Proper, which diners but slightly from the
temple of Denderah. Ears, as at Denderaln, the ﬁrst chamber is a. —

ﬁypostyle 11941391. E), open in front. The reel‘ is “borne by
18 columns, while at Demlarah them are 23; and the two small
ﬁhapels in front havs nothing carmsponding to ﬁbem at Demlumhe

The chapel to {he left as we enter is called “*3 Pawn, 32:. ‘in-

cexme—clmmbex‘, and was and. by the monarch, in his cayaclty as
high-pliant, when paﬁbrmiug the mmmonlcm of purifying kimself
on his entrance into the temple, with holy watar and intense. The
small room on the right was calleli L—Jm, PIE-how? (‘2), Le.
‘rucm of the) written rolls’ and appears from the inscriptions to
have been used to contain all the written documents remix-lug to
the temple‘sen'lce: ‘many boxes will: papyrus-tells (homggu) and
great; Masher—rolls (aru-tuu-en-mesak)’. A very interesting Cata—
logue on she walls of this zoom givqs the names 9f tlm Moll! pra—
Page-317
Tmpze. EDFU. 23. Route. 251

served hero. -—— A. Side-door (m. c) in the El wall of the hypostyle
admits to the open passage batwaen ﬁlm temple and the girdle-wall.

The Ceiiing of this hall, which, like that; at Dominating is named
Klzmi, ‘the from. room' or Klimt m, “the great anmohamber’, is

completely covered with astronomical reyrasentations.

To the left are the ﬁrst six Hours of Night, 0.0 the right the second
six (Champollion, Mon. II. pp. 1% ”91;" Above me dom- to tho following
Hall I) is a curious ropresematicn. be ﬁrm Dias nppzars with the 5 are
of a. crowned beetle ascending from the horizon into a boat guide by
Her mai uni Her them thread. Next the sun, on 2116: left, is Thom, on the
right 1mm, and also Aphzm (Anubis), Eat. and Hail-or. In an oﬁtiiude
of worship, at She Aides, are Four Sauna; to the right the eye and ea:
(:29. signs and hearing) :0 the lefs last-3 {symbolized by a tongue} and
reason, A: the 30p of! this wall is a long astronomical frieze. First
appear ﬁgures or” the 85 ‘thamﬂ a: the end of which are ﬁre chief con-
siellatlona of the 5. (Orion and lhe Salim Cow or 5.34m) arm of the N.
(the bull‘s leg {altered by Aye), then come the Planets. the stair will. the
Faurwen Sign of the waxing moon; ﬂu: gods com-es ending to those Inna;
days, representatives of the 30 Days of the Kent , the God: ofﬁse 12
Months, and ﬁnally three Kama!!! Figure: with raised handaé.

0n the 21. Wall of this hall, on either Ede of me door to Hall D.
are scenes from zhe Founding a] the Temple by the king similar to those
at Benderah. They are continued along {he W, “all u]: the hall.

Next, 3:: at Dandexab, follow three Frankel: Halls. with their
side—chambers, and here also the ﬁrst of these, tho Hal or Fermi
Hail (PI, D) is much ills largest. This hall is The only one of the
”Iron Hum has columns. of which more. art: 12 arrangmi In three
rows, while the corresponding hall at Denderah had only 6 columns.
The side-chambers, however, are more numerous atDenderah, where
ilmre were six, three on each side, while here there are but four,
viz. tho Laboratory (Pl. rum) and u Passage Room CH. xvm) in
front of it, on the W. side, ancl on the E. side another Passage Room
(Pl. xxx), in tho S. wall of which is a. door leading to a Comer
Room (Pl. 30:1). The next of the prosokos hails is ills Hail of the
Altar (Pl. 0), with lwo 8i&8—<;lnamlmr5 (P1. am: on Um W. aria
P1. xvr on the 12.), whence we reach the two great staircases lead-
ing to the roof of the (ample. Both the structure of the staircases
and their ylnstic aﬂomment closely resemble those at Denderah.
From the third and 19.59. Prosekos hall, tlm ‘Hall of the Centre' or
of the ‘Repoae ofihe Gods‘ {Y}. B), we enter on the right the two
connected ‘Rooms forth: Offering of what is necessary (Pl. xx: 5:1111),
and on ﬁlo let‘s the ‘Iioom of Kham’ (P1. In). We now mach the
Sﬁkﬁi Rooms. The Sanctuary (Pl. A} in tho centre is, like the
sanctuary at Denderah, surrounded on all sides but the front by a
Corridor (Pl. 6), from which 10 Side~Clwmhera open g Pl. I-vx on the
loft or W., vnnx on {he rigm or E. shin). ()n the inside wall of
the corridor, :16. on the outride of me sanctuary, are represented
the gods of the districte or memes. -— All these rooms, their size
and use, their plastic Liecorstions, the painting , gliding , etc. are
fully describcd in the inscriptions and in the reliefs.

 

4: See Brngsch, Monuments do l‘Egypm, plates vrrd.
Page-318
252 Route 23, EDFU, ﬁrmw—

Two important and specielly instructive Inscriptions descrihe the
variuns reams in order in the cnnrra of a. summary review. Una of these
farms the lower marginal inscription on the Gutside of the EV girdle-wall; “r
the ether in on the outside of the “N. wall of the temple pro er.”

The inscriptions mi Edfu begin their account of the di erent room
with Room ii, at the centre at“ the rear—wall of the temple, which they
name Divider of the Middle‘ (comp. p. 218). Thence they proceed to the
rooms lying m the right and left, and then :0 the Adytnm (Pl. A) and
the Prosekosvrooms in {rent of it. Those who desire to follow the
description in order hegih et Room I. Of this e47. it is said: ‘The apart-
ment Mam: (No. 1) is in its (the templc‘s) centre as the chief apartment,
with the great throne of the dispenser of rays; the goddess Ma- x's with
him, as Rather the great, in his shrine, the very secret place, in it (Le.
the mum}, whose. breadth is 81/3 ells and its depth 62,13. Its well is
painted with the cycle of the ngs M tho true Menennuharnher, their
forms according t0 their pretotypes‘. The ward Menu means here pra-
hahly dwelling of the helpers of Horus. In the second inscriytion this
room is 3150 named Ha ken, ‘x:hamh(~.r of the. victory and it is stated that
‘the ﬁgure 0f the protecting Horns, in his noble shape as e perching
hawk, an ell high, with the seourge (is there t9 be seen‘. The goddess
Mn. is hefore him; she does not separate herself from. who is ever
united with her. As Esther. the great. she is with him in the shrine
within the mysterious cells of dark granite‘. Room II. is named ‘tha
right .hamber‘ and [he ‘wesi chmnher‘ or 'dedicnted to the god of the
west‘ ’Osiris); Room ill; 5the eham‘her of the greai‘ (Gail-M; Room iv,
‘the inner-room oi the tomb-chamber“. These three are the Osiris Rec-nu.
Room V is called the ‘ronm of the throne of the gods“. Roam VI, the
‘clolh«chnmber‘; than on the E. aide, Room Vll, ‘thr: Scheknchnmhur’ iii
the moon-god Khuns‘a; Roam VHL the sanctuary of Katha-r; and Room IX,
the ‘thmnevrmim of lta‘. 0? Room X we read: ‘the Room of the Spreader
of Wing: (No. x) contains on its E. wall the divine image of the lion»
headed goddess 9f the north, and. 9f the cycle. of gods, that watch
aver Osiris. There is the god Shn as the representative of the F. Wind,
inﬂating his nostrils, as is his wont in the kingdom 0f eternity (is. the
underworld), and tl’m licn‘headed goddess chnmz as the representative
of devaaring ﬁre, in the act of burning his (Osiris a) enemies, 55 she does
it in the. place that is the. goal of millions (another name for the under—
world). There also are the goddess Hens, daughter of ihe sun, with her
backward glance, and the great Sahel-Artemis, the mistress of the god:
(lessen of vangeanca‘.

The Adysum or 501;; of Ram: (PL A) is next described: ‘The room
of the great throne (is. the adytum) in the centre, round which the
WHERE“ nine, in in 2:113 599/; + ‘la by 10%. A dear leading into the pan-
sage is found on its right and on its left side, in order to reach the
alosed reams lying round it. The sacred. boat of Tesner‘eru the bright-
caloured and his sacred shrine are placed there; his great cells. of dark
granite, it is a wonder to behold it”. This Calla 0! dark granite, erected
by King Nectanebna, stands to this day in the adytum (p. 9.46)

With reference to the Staircase: the inscription states that the E. stair
was ascended on ﬂew ‘i’esr’s Day, in order to unite the god with his
soul, and that the W. stair was ascended. to oifer smziﬁce in the rum-11in )
()f the Door: in Hsll 1) the inscription says: ‘I‘he door upon its W. si a
it) for the bringing of refreshing water, and. that on it: E. side 1‘1): the
bringing of mant-oﬁcrings‘.

We now benign ourselves to the passage round the temple props:
(9‘. l1). SPGCia) attention should he bestowed on the inscriptions

and reliefs on the Inside of the W. Girdle—wall (Pl. ff), representing

1 Published by Dﬁmichen and Br“ ash in the E tische Zeilachrifl
haw-7333131311? 1) h a m

r a in s y limit; en in his Ten: ellnschriiten. isles 81-94 a ti
Du Bongé, in in. mm, 74.77. P p ’ n
Page-319
Temple. EDFU. 23. Rome. 253

the contests o! the god Horus will: his enemies who are asyicted
as crocoéiles and hippepoiami. Perhaps the overthrow of the foes
of King Piglemy X. Soter II. is symbolicaliy repxssemad in these
compositions. The cal-touches on this will probably balong to this
king; mm of 13mm contains the name of Human, while the other is
vacant. The name of Pmlemy XI. Alexander 1. (loss not. swear
until near the left extremity of the wall, towards the 6an of the

list of nomas.

The. Representations, ramged in two regisfers, are 92 in number. The
chief are the follewing: 13: Scene: (below, to the right). The king, seaml-
ing on shore, attempts to transﬁx a hippopotamus, that bands its head
aside. Harm, who is accompanied by his mother his does the same; in
his left hand he helds a chain, and in his right agavelin; beside the
helm is a small Hm'm.—2nd Scene. The king appears on land, before
two shiya, irl each of which are. a Harm and. an assistant with a Tamar‘s
head. Jlorsu halds 11:9 hippopotamus with a chain and pierces its head
with a java .11; the assistant carries a javelin in his right hand and a.
knife in his lefi.~—fiih Scene. The hippnméamas lies on its bask. with
a chain {asiened to iés hi d feet.——"th Scene (the linen of all). Hana.
in a ship with expanded il, aims to. blow with his right hand at the
head of a hippopmumuu, use hind fool is rmuglli in a iiue held in the.
gmi‘s left hand. in"! kneel in the bow of the boat holds the head of
\‘ne animal by a cord. The king, standing on the bank with 2970 atten-
dants armed with jm'elin and knife, necks m pierce the skull of the
hippopotamus.

0n the inside of the N. Girdtfe—wau (Pl. 3 g) use se’veml long
hymns m the god 0? Edfu, - Th8 iravsllsr is recommendsﬁ 10 walk
round the outside of ﬁhe glidle-wall, which is alsa completely
covered with reprssentations and inscriptions. The above-meniioned
imyortant inscn‘ption relating to the history of the temple is to be
seen on the outsids m” the W. Wall (Pl. i), and the description of
the various zooms outside the E. Wail (Fl. k). The sight Records
of Donations of Fields are-aiso an the E. wail. Thsse inscriptions
anti tins dacnxaclon of the entire extoxnai face of ﬁne girdlwwajl

dale from the reign of Ptolamy XI. Alexamier 1. [106—37 BA?)

The, half»buried Eirth House (Hamid), lying to the. left of the entrance.
it) the. great temple of Horus, is less worehy 0:“ a vigil. It was built by
l’tclemy IX. Energstes 11., while the interior decorations date from
Sale! 11. in the IMen'oi‘ we seven reprbseniailnns of Hanmr, who facili»
iaie the birlh of the young [ﬁrms and nourish him,

 

 

 

  
 

24. Exam Eﬁfu ta Gebsl Silsileh.

Comp. the Mag), 1). 98.

26 M. Sleamlwaz in 4 hrs. Only the four- “ tourist steamer spends
ihe night at Bilsiielx and alfonis time for a vimi; the three—weeks steamer
asml the mail-steamer go on to Kﬁm Om‘hol

0n thaE. bank, about 5 M. above Edi‘li, is thevillage ofﬁadésiysh.
after which a Temple of Sch’ 1., lying 57 M. to the E., has been
named, because the ancient desert—mule from Redésiyeh t9 the

emerald-mines of Mt, Zabdmiz leads viii the temple.

The Arab name of the place is Wadi ‘Aﬁbds. The temple is in zha
district of the “Al-aback Beduim, who are independent of ma dwellers in
the Nile 'vailsy and assume a hostile Miimds boil: towar ~9. ‘ ’ to
Page-320
254 ﬂout: 24¢ EL-EGSH. From Edfu

the Egyptian government. They e‘lw have a language of their own.
Their domain extends to the Red Sea. It is there are necessary before
beginning this desert-exyediticu {1V2 day; camel and tent necessary] t6
secure the protection of the shékh of the 'Abébdeh. — The route leads thawing}:
a sandstone regiun‘ with many email ee'ynd»mciw. Fascia a (4 bran)
Well and then the Tamil of a. saint, we reach the (3 hrs.) in: 15565:»!
on the desert-route, consisting of two rectangular apecee L560 it. lung
surrounded by walls‘ The Ssczmd Human, on the route leading to the
Red Sea (come. R. B, p. '18]. is 6 hrs. farther on. Near itlies the temple,
beautifully situated at the foot of an isolated hill. The road to {Reef
(9. 77) diverge» lo the R, at a valley planted with acacia.

The Temple was discovered in ﬁlm by (Jau‘ltv'urxci1 on his ﬁrst journey
to the mines of Mt. ZabdMﬁ, where he found. 01d. emerald-mines Instead
of the sulphur that he expected. it is about 40 it. long, and the front
portion is occupied by a. strznvw, about 2'2 ft wide, with A cclumns.
of which the ﬁrst pair farm the entrance. The representations here
are familiar to us from other Egyptian temples. King Se“ 1. appeari
baron: ,limmomlirx, who hands to him the sword of victory. ‘32 unites
the princes of the. miserable Kuah‘ (Ethiopia): Behind Amazon Are 10
names 02‘ {entered tribes. Amman a eaks: 'Receive the swore, 011. King,
lord of the pea 133, to smite down t e wince» 0! Rush and to cut aft then-
heads. Fear 0 thee penetrates their limbs like Sekhct is hcr wrath“ 0n
the other wall the king appears befcre Horbeﬁe: (151m. once more smiling
his foes. ~— At the war-wall of this vestibule and in two niches to tile
rig-ht and left of the entrance in the next hall are Ou’ri: Statues. The next
HALL, about 13% ft. square, is, like the beck-wall of the preceding, entirely
hewn out of the rock. it contains ll pillars. At the back are three niches
each with a triad of gcde; in the centre is Ramayana (Sect 1‘) himself.
The interesting Inscriptéosa here record, among other things, that the king
came hither in the Elm year of his reign on his way t0 the gold-mines,
mammgmnicd by a large retinue and by architects, and canned wells in be
Bunk, 03ch —- 0n an adjoining rock are three states. On one of these is
the geddese dam” on horseback, with a shield in he: lets hand; the second
is dedicated to the ofﬁcial entrusted by Seti with the sinking cf the well;
and (m the third is the kneeling ﬁgure of Ani, king's son of Keel: and
commander of the Mazai (police). Higher up on the rock are ﬁgures
of gazelles, Greek graiﬂti, and the preerxomen of Amenhotep III. preceded
by the statement: made by mince “Ten-rue!a

Farther along the E, bank [12 M. from Edfu), on the mountain—
slopes approaching close to the river near the hill es—Serag, are the
picturesque remains of an ancient Arab fortress with a mosque.
This is sometimes identiﬁed with the ancient Thmuia! which,
hcwevex, more 1:193:3ny icy farther to the S.

Near the village el‘ (ii-3.16511 beside the Gcbci Alm Shegvxh, on the
W. bank, a great number of inscriptions and drawings of very
various dates have been fouml scratched on the racks.

The oldest King’s Name met with is that of en Usertesenjiﬂth Dram),
but most of the devicea are 0! a. very much late:- dnte. Greek numec
are not wanting, and meet of the inscriptions append- to have been carved
by marinas who workeri in the lage quarries, which are still :0 be found
beside the village of el—l’jiéslx. he aiguemre of a builder‘s foreman,

R m Amara, and numerous stouemuong‘markei, I e a: e‘ X;
<:> ‘3
seem _t-3 support this ceneluaion.

We here ﬁnd gis- ‘ , karma, gazelles, boats, ﬁghters. etc.1 closely
resembling those at wtdi Mckatleb (Vol. L, p. 483}; and there is $160
the picture of a men with an ax, an elephant, an ostrich, and i cipiiaily
executed dog. Among Eﬁwilm Mime: Ire than of Amenhotap, Aim-hemp.
Page-321
to mummy. GEBELSILSILEH. 24.1mm 255

a military colonel k , Kab Ranseaub, overseer a! the temple of
, O '
Koptos, am} Reblan, overseer of granules. In few cases, unfortunately.
are the reigns mentinned in which they were written. The Greeks generally
wrote merely their gamer. some of them suggesting a Christian: date, 9,9.

nAXOYMlOS (Pachumios), ”EROS (Vein-Os), We 3.150 and z;

¢IL7iMON (Philemon), EYENOE (Euenos), and other names, beams
which not more than the common «:6 1:99:16» 5w. an Act of reverence nr
warship, stood. The inacxiptions are found or miles, scratched en the
rocks and 02133 of the low bills skirting the river; they are most
numerous to the N. of the villages?

A little to the N. are several Greek Inscriptions, ﬁrst discorered by
A. 0. Harris. These date from the ﬁlth year {11’ the emperﬁr‘ Antonin-as
Plum (“3 All) and record that u manta—engineer (éfp‘ﬁquuvuus) quarried
huge blocks 031i ells (i6 ft.) for the gate mum) o polio (5t. Edfn ?).

0n the W. bank, ‘14 hr. above elwlglésh am} about 3/41}: below
Silsileli, is a gorge known as Shag; ablegﬁl, ‘Shcrs of the Man‘,
a: 95— eab'a regdi, ‘the seven men’. On the left siﬂe of a cliff here,
a few paces from the river-bunk, is a most interesting relief (also

discovered by Harris) regreeenting the Homage of an inferior king
:2.
( ﬂ ) Enief before Menﬁuhoiep 111. (SC? g) Ra Mb
\ Kg.» 9
WM

kher, the unitar of the two lands, and before the king’s mother

Aah (moon). Behind. Entef is s chamberlain named Kheti.

This Mentuhotep, with the emf of empire is: his band, was an im~
pox-tent king a! the close of the ﬁlth Dyn., and his name is mentioned in
all the extant lists of kings. A stale (new at Turin) dating harm the A611}
year of his reﬁgn attests his long mﬁ prosperoaa rials. He seems to have
been the ﬁrst monamh after a. long interval (Bin—11th Dyn.) to ﬁnite She
whole kingdom under 2L single: empire” and in) ill thus :1 worthy predecessor
(If the. Amenemhas and ‘Ugerteseue of the 12th Dynasty.

0n the right site of the cliff is the name of Panati, an rrhitect
who warked under Amenhotep 1., Tummqu and Tntmes II. Farther
up in the same valley occur the signatures of other royal ofﬁcials,
and also (according to Petrie} the joint cariouchee 9f Hatasu
and Tamara 11].. with another mention of Email below them. -

A second. Scene of Homage before King Rasankhha. <3 [‘3 -,T)'LJ),

the successor of Ranebkher or Mentuhotep, is reported by Pattie,
who also discovered other kings’ names, some hitherto unknown, on
theses rocks.

26 M. Gabe! Siliileh (Mountain of the Chain). Though we land
on the W. bank on which the most interesting monuments lie, we
should net omit to visit also the E. bank, where there are larger

quarries than on the Libyan side.

At Chiral Hiltiich begins the Sanddam Zen: of the Riﬂe valley (Vol I.)
d. 56). The rocky hills which here conﬁne the bed of the river supplied
the material far most of the gigantic buildings we have already vlgited,
for when: monuments exposed to the air were to be erected. the Egyxptlans

-}- They are published in Fliuders Petrie“s ‘A Season in Egypt“ (L01?
don, £888). . .
Page-322
256 Ram 24. (man. SELSILEH. From Edfa

preferred smdsiene to Zlmesione and even 1:; the huder but more eaﬁly
disintegrating granite. For substructures, howaver, anal fer walla
suzroundud with earth they wisaly gave the preference to ”weaken.
— The hills 0n ‘éha two banks of the river approach so clasa togsthet
m. Gebel Silsileh that they have justly been compsred {a Lhe pillar: of a
gigantic gateway. The legend of ﬁlm chain that once birred the passage
of the rivar her-E. is pmbghly Euro inventions taking its rise Tm- the
Coptic name of the city 0! quarries, which in the hieroglyphiea ienmed

Pa Kikuyu, Tbs lam;- Egypiians named the town £91K $.03 {19. me-

pes, damn-um, barrier. pruhalliy in reference to the gorge of the river.
The Humans, who ma ﬁned 5 garrison here, convened the Tel fax 06
ilne Egyptians into M! é. which was confounded by the Arabs with
Eilaileh, the Arabic fer ‘chnin‘. The people, making meaniags for every
name and pruferring those that came *' the guise of a. legend ihereupon
invented the story of a chain, that one; barred the gorge at Gehal Silsi‘xeh.
By and by the very place where this myikical chain had been fastened
came (0 be pointed (mi.

The dhahabiyehs generally he]: in the very midst of the mon—
uments. We mm ﬁrst to the R, ascend a weli—beaten track, and
than graduaﬂy descend the rot-.ky hill. On the slope basidva the river
are some tomb-like Recess“. belonging to ofﬁcials of the 18th
Dyn., with ﬁle names of Tutmes HI. and his sister Hausa aver the
entrance. 1:: ans of theme, the surfacs of which is divided into
squares, some of tbs ﬁgures are sketched but left unﬁnished.
Farmer an is a save with a painted ceiiing. Beside is are in-
scriptions of the time of Ramses 111., builder of Medinet Habu,
who is represented before Amman, Mum, and Khunsu. There is
also a larger at aria! mm (if the 2156 year of Sheshenk 1.
(22nd Dyn.) Shoshenk had commanéed his architect Horemsat to
quarry stones at Silsileh for the gateway erected by the king an
the 5. side of (hf: ﬁrst. com: of the templa of Ammon at Kamak.
Immediately to the N is 3. Stale hearing various conventional phrases

   

   

 

 

and dating i‘mm Ramses V. (F a ), whose name seldom occurs
W

on the monuments, Finally we wash the broad fagade of the
shallow—

”Eock Chapel (Specs), which may be reckoned. among ﬁne most
imporian’c monuments In 1118 Nile valley, on account of its reliefs
and inscriptions, This chum}, )mwn in this rock close to the sum—
mit of a hill, dams from the 18th Dyn. In from are ﬁve doorways,
separated {mm each other by pillars at van-ying distance, and crowned
with tho astragal and concave; ccmice. Numerous goﬁs are named
in it. Sebek, whn forms a triad with Ammomkn and Muth, takes
the ﬁrst place; PM: of Memphis is also mentioned. King Horns is
here spokm of as the beloved of th’e Alike-t. (Gun), ‘Misiress cf
Asia“, and this Egypﬁan—th’ucian goddess is represenﬁed wiih a

head-dress, elsewhere onEy found on ma hams 0f Asiatic wmiors.

The Interior consists of a Emmi but shzllaw vaulm chub”, M the
hack of which in An oblong mom. All the walks are snared with “EYE“:
ami inscriptions. (m ch: 8. wall is aha Uranus goddess, oﬂ'ering :ha breast
is the infani kmgz Horus, whim above her head hovers the valhare of
Page-323
New Siiaileh. GEEEL SILSlLEH. 24. Home. 257

Helmet. 0n the back-wall, to our left as we enter, King Home is depicted
returning in triumph from his campaign in Ethiopia.

This “Relief, I grant artistie value, shows the Fhmoh seuad on
his eta-cue which is borne by 12 nobles adorned with feathers. The throne
has licns‘ fast and its back also consists of lions. The king wears the
warhelmat and carries the staff of empire in his left hand, Behind
and before him ere court-ofﬁcials. warding 03‘ the sulfa rays with the
long—llmxdled ﬂabellum. ’l‘lze Kharheb yreeedea the litter, offering incense,
and a train of captured Ethiopians is led aiung by the visitor, Vauquished
blacks are lying on the ground and. others are being re 2y marched off
by Egyptian soldiers. Above the captive: are the ward . ‘Leading of the
captives of lhe miserable Kush by Rim-us, king of Uppez and Lower
Egypl, etc. Hie majesty came out of the land of Ens}: (Ethiopia) with
the booty which his sword had made, as his father Amman hm com-
manded him‘. Before this priests, who edema in z. reverential swindle, is
wxiatsn: “The good god approaches, he celebrates his victory over the great
ones of all lands. When he gxsspe the bow in his right hand he is like
the lord of Thebes (5.5. Month, the god of war), as king cf the strength
of heroes. Above the prisoners is the inscription: ‘Hail to thee, king 01‘
Egypt, aim of the barbarians: Thy name is extolled in the land of the
Ethiopians. Thy beetle-cry resounde over their seats. Thy heroic strength,
0 thou perfect princei convesis the alien lands into lambs. Pharaoh, long
life and health, (2| my elm-god" (She).

Farther to the right and also an the haekwvull in 9. recent) with King
Sipzeh Khucm-a before Ammon. with Bel, an ofﬁcial (overseer of the
whole land). Next is a State of Paneheat, of the second year of Maren-
ptnh I. and his cannon Aslnefert; then a stale (I! the: time 0? Rambles 1,.
and upon ii; @116 ﬁrst tablet of the Fsm’ans instituted by the king's son
Khaemus in honour of his father Ramses 1:. The ﬁrst tablet dates from
the 30th year, the second from the 36th, the third from the 37th, and the
fourth {mm the Ame.

Beside the pillar is the small Sanctuary of Ramses II. To the left of
the entrance is King Home (who built the sanctuary), before Hermachls
and the goddess Jusas, and the same king before Ammamlﬁn anti Math.
At the heck of the very dark recess is a. god. with three forms on each
side. Numerous ﬁgures of gods. To the right of the entrance to the
sanctuary is a reproduction cf the I'uﬁval Stein mantionad above, All
joininz is the Mela cf the hlglrprlest Moi, who instiznted a festival in
the third year of Herenpiah I. Farther on is mother Fuﬁoal State, with
limses IL hefm-e Harmechx’s and Much, Ptah, and Sehek. The (late is
the same as on the preceding, hut the marshal 0f the festival is here the
Erpa Es (prince) and. mayor 3714?. The same efﬂeial ”pears also in the
same stele of the 48th yen:- ut‘ Ramses IL as marshal ef the ﬁll: festival
in lhe whole land (Khaamus had probably died in the interval).

The numerous reliefs above and below the ﬁve doors and in the re-
ceases outside should else be noticed. Over the central door: King Horus,
11ers called me beloved ui Amman and Hut-h. of Rheum, 0f Abel, and of
Auk, mistress of Suﬁ (Asia). Over the second. door {from the left):
Ramses III. with the commander 01‘ his cavalry. Between the fourth and
ﬁfth this king presents Me to Anlmr. Last relief on the right: Bernese {1.
brings Ma to Ptah in his shrine and to Sebek. Within the adjacent ﬁfth

\
door is the small chapel of Pa war (K L in which Ramses II.
. J ’ L

appear: with his «mean Asmefex-t and a princess {Belem want) before
Flush and Nefertum. There is also a small ﬁgure of Khaemus. 0n ihe
inside 6f the front wall ,is n Hiwutéc Imoriptéor. of the 5th year of Ram-
sea 111., euntaining a command ta Betsmheb, overseer of the palmea to
lmilxl in the house cf utensil. in the W. of Thebes (in. the tomb of
Ramses Ell. in Bibin el-Mnluk, .The number of workmen under him
(2:03), ships [4.0), and hosts (4.) are detailed. 'I‘wa other hieraﬁc [Mﬂ'ép~
ﬂeas, ofasimilu: purport, an) 60 be issued on the central doorway, to the
right and left.

Bssnzxza‘a UppervEgypt.
Page-324
258 Route 24. GEBEL SILSILEH. me Edfu

The ‘Mommnm‘s To rm: Scum are as interesting as those just
described, franc which they are reaeheti in about 1/4 hr. The route
{unis ta thsS., sometimes skirting the river—bank; someﬁmas {swi—
ing through the ancient quarries. We ﬁrst reach Two Chambers,
with the oysnings facing the river, and recesses at the back. At
the ﬁrst. are two, and at the second ars three unnamed sitting stan
mes, hem: out of the rock. The chambers balongmi m ofﬁcials of
Tutmes 311., whose name (recurs over the entrance along with mess
of Ammon Hamschis and Sebeh. The ﬁrst cave belonged. to Khan.
nekhi, overseer of grannies, who is here represented along with his
wife. The statmxui. 00 tins N.i belong-ad. i0 the mayor Ame/m sud. his
wifs, and contains a. series of ﬁgures. To ibis 3. occurs the name of

Amenhoiep XI. 63% a Ea Maseru; with two small Sides in

bad preservation on the left, and two others, hatter preserved, on
the right. Farther to the S. near the river is a brightly painted. Cave,
with painted ceiling. A relief here depicts Amonemhat, a high
priest of Ammon [:liirahahlyi from his name7 under 1hr; 12th Dyn.)
sacrificing to his parents and those of his wife Mimi.

The guides peint Gut large square holes in the lofty rocks as
having been used to fasten the above-manticned mythical chain of
Silsiieh. Skirting the bushy riverwbank we presently resell three
Inscribed Tablets, offering a picturesrgue appearance es seen ﬁrm:
the Nile. Two of them, adorned with concave comicas and with
doors, iie class beside each other. The architrave is home by sculp-
tured hid—columns, the shafts of which represented stems of plum;
henna together by a band. Both of these brightly painted facades
act as frames for large States, placed at the bask of small chapsia
about 6 ft. deep. That to the 8. (left) was erected by Ramses II.
in the ﬁrst ysnr of his reign, that to the N. (right) by Morenptah 'i.
(Hetep—hi—ms) in. his ﬁrst. year. Each is formmi of three inns. A:
the top is the tried to which it was dedicated, next is a Hymn to
the Nile, and heiow is a list of sacriﬁces. in the one case the divine
triad ﬁorisisis of Ammon? Much, and Khunsu, the chiaf triad of
Hyper Egypt. in the other of Ra Hsrmachis, Pinh. imd Espi, recan—
ing Lower Egypt. A third, similar Stale, (lacing from the 6th yes:
cf Ramses ILL, is to be seen on an isolated rock to the right. All
are mare or less damaged; but a rsstoration of the text, which is
the same an all three, with a. few triﬂing variations! is rendered
possible by collation.

L. Stem has published a German Wamhuova ui’ the corrected in-
acripiian on We stale of 61m first yw of Ramses ii. (the :33th and be“
given preserved), with 3 emission of the other two. A iew extracts are here
from ibis ibrice—repensed Hymn to ()2: Mia, the god to when: Egypt owed
her very origin, and. upon whim: she was dependent Em- :hu conditions a!
cousin-Jed existence from year to year. Simiiar hymns to the sane god
have some down m us in a gamma from the hand 0f Anew, one of the

moat fa-ous'nuthors of the perioﬁ 0! in: Panama; mud than "a ciwly
connected Wlih the hymn nuw helm-u us. The inscripiio imagine ‘Sn the
Page-325
zo Gebel Hélsileh. GEBEL SILSILEH. 24. Route. 259

is! yes:’ on the 10th Epiphi, in the reign of His Ksjesty etc. . . . Ramses-
Miamun, who loves the Nile, the father of the goals, his creator. Long
may hs liYe, possessing ﬁrmness and might, uternslly, Long live, the
beneﬂcent god. tbs Nils that loves the primmval waters (Hun), the father
of She gods, who form the cycle of the nine deities, which belong in the
ﬂoods, ihe blessing, thi: abundance, tile support of Egypi, who blesses
all the world with life by his rich abundance? who is digniﬁed in his
course an! (listn'llutes blessings with his ﬁngers. The elect are rejoiced
at his approach. Thou art one that hast cranial thyself, and no man
knows whence thou art. 012 the day that thou cemcst out 0i thy sar-
x-nundings, all the world rejoices. Then srt s. lord of xnsny ﬁshes and
gifts, who bestowost noutishmont upon Egypt, Even the nine tieities
know not whence than an. Thou art their lifea Therefore when thou
approaches! they redouble their sﬂ‘srings; they furnish the man: richly
and raise their voices in exultMion when thou appeal-est. Thou mctcst
rich measure to us, to nourish the elect like Ra when he ruled this land.
Strong and Wikeful is he at all times, to seek nourishment for the living,
to malls in» com abnnxiunl like the sand of the. seashore, and to load
line grannies with gifts. Behold, therefore His Majesty sought how he
might exalt the father of sll gods, the princs and ruler of the flood, and
mediated llks the. god Tehuti {Thom} 60 find out whné was adequate to
his love (is. how in: might give most adequate expression to his love).
Na king lass dons so since thy time, Oh Ra! Ami Ills Majesty spoke;
5Whersas the: Nile nourishes the world= and blessing and abundance
follow 11an his rising, and behold each one lives in his dwellingy enriched
through his command; sud seeing that i know what stands in the book-
store that is preserved in the library; therefore when the Nile camera
forth from his two sources, then let the offerings to the gods be in»
ARM [2
creased; but if the. holy stream is at Silsileii ( Khennwt),
\ _

at the right time’ King Ramses 11. will redouble the offerings to it there.

This king appointed two festivals to be kept at Silsileh in honour
of the Nile, as the following portion of the inscription records. 0m: was
to be observed at the beginning of its gradual rise (the 15th Epiphi), the
(tiller on the 15th ’l‘hot‘n, when the rapid rise sel in. L. Stern compares
them: ammo )riatsly in the iwn main festivals of the modern Egyptians,
the Rights the lira 5 and tbs (Hitting ofrihe Dam, which are also two months
apart (V91. 1., p. 2 8). Dierenptan l. and Ramses XII. conﬁrmed the grants
made by Ramses ill. for the purposes ci‘these festivals, and erected the above»
menticnad scales in commemoration of the fact. The nature of the grants
{smriﬁcisl bread and cakes, snielopes, beef, veal, six kinds of wins,
lmnay, oil, been, mills, essences, etc.) is raoorded in tin: lists below tho
inscriptions, from which we also learn that the king oﬁ‘ered fowls to the
river—genie and. as much mm as a. granary could contain to Amman of
Thebes. — The side—walla 0! tbs two chapels are also occupied villa
scenes of sacriﬁce and worship.

stious opinions have been expressed as to the reason of the
special reversr‘mo palli to this Nile at this guari'lmlsr llamas. The
narrows oi“ Silsileh were Perhaps difﬁcult or even impossible to
pass in earliest antiquity, and so probably came to be regarded as
the second entrance of the river into Egypt, the ﬁrst being at the
cataract at Aswan. This is the more pmbabls as K6111 Ombo was
certsinly reckoned as belonging to Nubia.

Betwesn the above—mentioned chapels of Ramses II. and Merm—
pish, is a. small Stale atected by tbs mayo: Panehesi (p. 257), who
appeals hers along with a son of the king accompanying the king
before Amman. The player is addressed not only to Ammon, but

also to tbs ‘holy water’ (am: 3‘0, see above) anti to th d Ssbek.
Page-326
260 Route 25. Kém 01mm.

Afawpaees farther to the 3., and at a lower level than the
steles.'is a small Chapel, which in spite of its very mittens condi—
ion, we can reéegnize as having been founded by the great builder
Sets 1. The inscriptisne on the stale are completely obliterated. w
To the right of this chepel is a carefully hewn but empty Recess, and
in the same ciiﬂ but facing N. in the direction of the two steles, is
n Table: of e chief—prieet of Ammou named 302‘, who here appears
with Merenymh 1. before the god.

The Quarries on the W. bank of ibe Nile are of enormous size,
but few traces of inscriptions are now to be found. An Inscription
of Amenhotep 111., however, records the transport of stones by the
Nile for a temple of Ptuh (at Memgbis‘ﬂ. There are (we Posts of
the time of Seti 1., 3.an Dmoiic Inscriptions from Roman times.
An unﬁnished colossal Sphinx, nearly opposite the usual hurtling»
place of the ﬁbehabiyehe, is also not without interest. Even if all
the monuments of Egypt had alieappoared, these huge quarries
would serve as a Irma!“ that building operations 03' unsurpassed ex-
tent had once been rarried on here. he tovm of Khannu appears
to have steed here, not on the E. bank. A few unimportant ruins
may be traceﬂ.

According to pepyri now in Turin, the residence of the kings 0f the
‘1ch 133711., the Arnenamhee and Userteeene, was transferred to K'hmrzu.
Under the 19:11 and 20th Dyn. this tuwn posnessed a Unicea'ﬁty. A papy~

ms, new in the British Museum. contains {warning to the students Gf
this institution against excessive beer-drinkmg and idleneea.

25. Franz {label Silsileh to Kent Ombo.

Comm. the Ma}: at 12. 95.

15 BL (391/214. from Edi“). Kiln: 0::le in B- Bteumer Station, at which
the threevweeke touristmteamer halls 1/2 1112. the {enrwoeke steamer 1 km.
both or. the upward voyage; while the mail-atea-er passes a night hare
on the downward voyage.

The mountains race-<19 from the river immediately above the
[lﬂﬂlﬁ nf Gelml Silsileh (:9, 25-5), giving sgace to the desert which
ayyear- grey on the Arabian side and yellow on the Libyan side.
The narrow culiivable strip is tilled by peasants of a distinctly darker
complexion than the i‘ellﬁhln of the Theba‘id. Both land and peoyle
agyrench gradually nearer to the Nubian type. At the village of
Meniyeh (E. bank) we enter the E. branch attire stream, which here
forms the island of Mangdﬁyeh, with a. village of the ﬂame name.
Ontlse W.bank ofthe Nile, oyposite the lower and of this island, lies
Aim. At'cmgms where Arce‘dn claims to have discovered stone imple-
ments in a. deposit of gravel containing marine mussels, which was
overlaid. by more recent deposits of the river.

On a hill on the E. bank next appears the beautiful ‘Templs M
Khan limbo, conspicuous from a considerable distance. Somewhat
nearer the river is another temyle, new alums: entirely destroyed.
The double door cf 1.1m hypoetyie of the higher tam le {presents an
Page-327
116111 015130. 25. Ram. 231

imposing appearance; but the nearer W8 approach the temple, the
more clearly we percnivn thai the 31:11am has already washed awa"
the pylons and colonnalle, and than. in no long time the whole of
the handsome buxldmg M1l be unﬁermined like the temple oi Kan
i-l—l-(ublf p 48]. Large fragments of the building are even now to
be seen sunk beneath the stream, nem- its edge. On one of these is
the dedication luscripllcn, recording that the building had been
founded as ‘a work to endure for eternity. The high-lying ruins
of K5111 (3me are espenially picturesque by the light of the
full 11101111.

A single glance in enough lo reveal to the practised eye that a.
comparatively lMa monument. lias‘nefore the traveller. Ptolemy Vll
Philamelor foundarl the temp le:

(Fojﬁiiﬁm: may}! Asz en neteru pair

plain icheper 30161) cm amon at mu m, Epiphanes son 01’ the gmis,
begotten by E’iah chosen by Amman, making the truth 01' En.
Energetes 1]., Ptolemy XIII. Neos Dionysum his wife Cleopatra V1,
and at a We: (late Tibeﬁus enlarged the building. It belonged in

the EgyPtian town QNHM Septic M216). called by me
3l e:

Greeks Omboa, as capital of the district Ombifcs, which farmerly
was part of the Nubian nemoxaxy while from the Egyptien Nnbi they

formed the names Unbi—Ombi 12.1111 Ombnl "09301).

It would be a great error to dispute, in face. of the prawn: building,
the existence of an earlier temple on tlns site. A -a€eway which existed
on ﬁlm E nidlx 0f the girdle- Wm“ down to 1870 showed 011 ill; jamlm the
ﬁgure nf'1 nutmes IKE.a builder of tin: temple, which WM named PI» Selmk
{Lemeﬂa of the crocodile— headed. 5231231) in the inscription of Ramekn be—
neﬁt.) According t!) Champolllen the (1001'- -pos£s were provided. by one
of ﬁlm Péulnmies with a. new linﬁel- , the. old lin‘el,d1ating ham Tutmes 111.,
was found 011 all», nverbmk in 1885 lay Mangers, along with a. ﬁner-pest
blaring the name of Amenhotep' 1 , and a luck of alone with the car-
touchu of 3111111183 l’nu Great. The old temple 1)?‘ Tutmes Ill probably faced
Ghe east

Corresponding $0 the double division ofthis temple, two different
ﬁlads were especially worshippoé within it. The chief of the ﬁrs:
was Sebeknlia with the crsaodilemhead‘ along with whom were Ham
shot and Khunsu; at the head of the second was liar—war, the elder
Hams (Aruexls’), with whom were associated ’l‘asentnel’er: {the good
sister} end her son Pinebtati, lord of both lmds. The entire left
half of the mmpla was dedicated to she trim} of Awards, the right
half In that of Sabek. The coins of Gmboa rlisplay a warrior, with
3 lanes in one hand and a crocodile in the other; ﬁgures which re-
pzasant Horns and Sahel: in the Roman style. The memory of tlm
worship of the two divine brothers in the same temple seems to have
lingered in the following legend‘ related to the write: by a. boat—
man at K6111 Omlm.

‘Oncu upon a time lwn brolhem reignadw princes of Omho _
was wicked and strong, 511:: other we“ gond Tin- lam-r Wliu l
Page-328
262 m 25. K453i 0mm.

fellow-men, wan urpalled by his wicked broilxer, and when his awaited
towards the N, all the inhabitants of Omho want with him M his mm-
ggnlons, leaving the tewn by night. It was than the season for sewing.

hen the wicked prince awnlce, bin vizier said to him, ‘All thy subjects
have left the ccuntry along with my brother; who will now Name}; the
ﬁelds?“ The Wickad prince was very angry when he heard that; but as
he was a great magician he said, Then the dead must help me‘. So he
summoned ﬁlm dear‘x from their graves; and in the morning he beheld from
his castle (the temple) the dead at work, ploughing and sewing. But
when the harvest came, nut & blade grew in the ﬁelds, {‘91- ehe dead had
carried tha ploughs in the air above the earth, and had sowcc‘. sand in~
516ml of gradn. Then the wicked prince mm more was angry and de-
scended from his 635616 to couvluoe himself with his own eyes of me
failum of the harvest. When he saw nni only that. no blade of corn aw
graen, but also that the former ﬁelds were now rovereﬁ with an , hr:
uttered a terrible curse so [em-ml elm: his castle fall so the emu, and a
block of stone crushed him to death'.

The ﬁempla of Kém Omho is a. Double. Tmlplﬂs and l: is this
only (me in Egypt that is divided along its longer axis into two dis-
tinctly deﬂnedparts. Even the entrance has two portals. In the interior
the various chambers are net approached as usual by one door each;
everywhere twc doorways aresecn, separated by broad pillars each of
which is a point in the imaginary line indicatlngﬁw division between
the two portions of the temple. The plan of the whole may be made
out with perfect certainty, though many of the rooms, especially
thaw i-owaxda the reax, are largely sanded up. The 66mph moreover
contained two sanctuaries? a fuel which is scarcely suryrlsing after
what has been said of the two chief deities, Amerls and Sebek.

The Hypestyle I’mnaos. — The Double Portal of the main
temyle consists of two doors, frameél by three columns and each
displaying a concave comics and a winged sunmdlsc. The ﬂoor of
the hypostyle is encumberad with sand. Thirteen columns are still
standing, each of which measures no less than ‘20 ft. round the
middla of the shaft; Th9 two coma: noiumna in front are apparently
wanting; there were in all they: rows of 111m 0: yerhaps three rows
of seven. The capitals, of great. variant of farm, belong lo the

tolemaic-Egy‘ptian onler; but they differ in various pointa from
those to be seen atDenderah, Esnah, and. Edm. The middle column
in the back row has a calychapital, with a faliageucnp disylaying
a unique amamenmﬁon, with threo ﬁewaxs anti tlu'ae buds spring»
ing from it. The unﬁnished calyxmapital of the most nonherly
column in the same (rear) row has, at its base, a wreak of ﬂowers
with serrated edges, between: which sue arranged pairs of bulls, each
pair surmounwd by a six—pointml star? though elsewhere the Egyp-
tian star is always ﬁva—poinmd ‘k.

This hypostyle was built by Pwlemy XIII. N905 Dionysus am“
his wife Cleopatra V., whosa surname Tryphaens is of frequent ecu
entrance among the Pmlemlcs. The name of the builder

:5 “Q. .vawx
(D {W W Am 15 pi mier mi mizem, sun of Sclar, is to be

Go“ w

found on 1:318 abacus beneath the two—line entrame—lnscrlptlon, part
Page-329
36M one. 25. Route. 263

of which lies on the grennd, and also on the interior coiumns. The
rear—Wall of the hypostyle, Le. the entrance—waii of the adjoining
hall with ten columns, dates from Pteiemy IX. Euergetes II. and his
two wives, Cleopatra, II. and (AS-repairs 111. v~ Above the door of
the right; [Sebakj side of the temple ibis king appears with Ms ﬁrst
wife and sister, presenting the ﬁgure of M5 to Sebek, Harbor, and
Khunsu; above the left door he appears with his second wife,
beforu Arueris, Tasenmst‘ort, and Pincbmti. Bot-ween the cornice
and frieze an; the dedicntary inscriptions, on the left to Harwar, on
the right ta Sebsk. T9 the right and heir of the two {ﬂoors to the next
(ﬁrst) room in the direction of the Pronaos, are other two rows of
Dedication Scenes. To the right {Sebek sing): in the lower raw,
Is King Eum‘gatos 11. presenting Wine 60 Slur and, Tefnut, farther
to ﬁne; right1 the king Wiih two nosegays hafore Seb, the ﬁrst born
of the gods, and Sebek Nubti; then the king before the celestial
goddess Nut, mother of the gods, and Hathor, mistress of Nubt;
and ﬁnally befure Osiris, Isis, and Nephthys 1: yartly broken). In
$115 range: row, the king pmsents Sebek with two winewvessels,

upon. which is a basket 5%! In a third scene, the king gypsum

before ﬁre wife (Tasenmefert) and son { inebtaci) of Sebek. —To
the left {Ameris sine} : in the upper row, to the ieft, is the king

before Sebek, Hathor, and Khunsn, Ha: nab fuiib (Home, tha
13>-

bmsd~hearteli), anti then the same with two Um eyes he—
.<E>v

fore as moon—god (awed Harwar by Champoilion) and washer god

{Pinsbtazii’} The presentation of the two eyes (Um; refers {o the
united lands of Lower and Upper Egypt, or perhaps to Nubia. and
Egypt, of which ths temple 0f Ombos was a rsprosantaiion. TM
name 9! City of 11:: two Una, moreover, is frequomiy bestowed upon
Ombos, and was perhaps its sacred name. - En a third scene, in
the upper row, the king presents two vessels to Hams: and Haihor.
--— in this lower rm», the king yrssents the seated ﬁgure of Ma m
Harwar, Tasantnefeﬂ, ami PinebtatL

The traveller’s attention may now be direetad to the Astra--
nomical! Representazéom, some of which are only ouzlined in red
and left unﬁnished. The consteuaﬁons in boats ﬂoating ovsr she
heavens, en the ceilingwsiéo of the architrave, are the most imporw
mm. The squares into which tbs surfaces were dividse’l t0 guide
the artist in drawing the ﬁgures are still visibie, and prove that the
recognized proportions of the various parts of the human body to
each other were here not identical with those regarded by the mists

of earlier epochs,

Lepu‘us, who had already established inc cxisﬁonce 01' two canons of
ntoporﬁon, here discovered a third, and demonstrated ﬁrst in the epoch
of the Mommies the. human body was no longer divided into 18 aria
from the nmwn of tbs head to the 90188 of me (but, but into 3/4.
as Diodoms states. “Fae central point between brow a in
Page-330
264 122mm 25‘ K635 95530.

all lines divieione beneath the, hips. Thence downwards the propoth'ons
according to the sewnd and third census are the same; but these
(if the upper part of the body dimer very essentially. The head is larger,
the eheah recedes further, the abrimnen is higher. The contain-e in:-
come in general fuller, uni abandon that early beantlfnl Aimpliciiry and
tenderness A)! form, on which depended their imposing anﬂ specially
Egyptian chat-eaten in favour of an imperfect imitation of an uneeeimb
{and style of art. The proportion of the fact to the total length of the
bmiy still remains, but the tom. is no langex' the fundimental mm at
meeeuremeni‘.

The smaller Colonnaded Hell {two IOWS 0:” 4 and 2 central cam
lawns), lying behind me hyposlyle, is ﬁlled with sand, but amass
may be gained by creeping through one of the half-choked deoxways.
Within is the hieroglyphic Dedication Inscription of Energeces 11.

Q
and of his two consorts, one of whom is called his sister i Chaim
4.9.—

ifj
second his wife a Q. On the back-wall of this hell, beneath the

Eli
cornice, is the hieroglyphic aedicaﬁon of Pmlemy XIII; Vim:
Dionysus to the two chief deities of the temple, and beneath it the
Greek Dedication Inscription, written in unusually ﬁne uncial

characters. ‘r

The (”Minion in u follower: - ‘ln honour of King i’isoiemy and
Queen Cleopatra, his aisler, she godiike Philometorea and their children,
the fooi—eoldiers, cavalry, and others stationed in the Ombieian district
(erected) this temple to Ameris, the great god, Apollo. and the gods wor-
shipped with him in the 581116 temple (ml mic wvvémc ﬂak), in eou~
sequence of their (the godn‘) goodwill towards ﬁhcm‘. From Lilia inscrip-
tion it appears that the. garrison and ofﬁcials uf the Nubian district, which
ineluded Umboe, undertook en adornment of £115 temple of she gods, to
whom they applied the Egypsian name Aroeris (Em-war} and the Greek
name Apollo, in graéiiude for same special mark of favour shown to them
by the gods.

Beside the duo: of the next room, the second in the direction

of the Prenme, is a eevm-liued Calendar of Fatigue/la. The hall
izself was built; by Euergetes II. The filial mom is the that. that
shows Ptolemy VII. Phﬂometor offering hemage (catwuche see
p. 261?. Here we see Rhee king before Ham's: and Tuentnel‘eyt,
and before Sebek anal Esther. A fallen block of stem exhibits all
the ﬂattening of the king. The entrance to the [eel Double Cham—
ber or Sanctuayy, and the :eliefe within it, (including astronemical
scenes}, also date from Philometer.

The Small Temple in {rent of the larger one is now hugely
evexwhelmeui by the Nile, but the Pylon on the 8., & few animus,

i The fellowlng copy‘ discriminating the words and showing the ac»
eents1 will Maxis: the traveller is decipher this line iaecripﬂcn.
‘ ﬁép ﬁamkéme Umkeyméou amt BamHae' e Khumi-
1pm: 11]: cihhpﬁ: lluﬁv Gliopnm’pmv, m 'ru'n!
19-1-ng 1&qu 'APG'éP“ 3th gag-(ﬁe)? \
‘4qu:qu :ullmls auwéaic 319k 11w any»
5:: h” up ‘Ouﬁs'r zueqépsvm watel zed.
“may ml nl m, :uvola: Evan-v ti: :1:
«thew.
Page-331
nsnﬁ‘wz. 26. Route. 265

anti some fragmama of she walls of the temple proper still remain.
The temple 510011 from N. to S. 0n the pylon appears PtolemyXIIl.
N905 Dionysus sacriﬁcing to the gods of (lmbos. The same families
of guds are forum hers as in the larger tampla: Horus on one side,
Sebek and Esther or: the other. Them is also an altar. From the
freguemly repealed ﬁgures opre, goddess of births, the ramaining
walls of the temp-la proper seem to have belongetl to 3. Pa mes or

[3" -
Birth-Flange 34m {1 Dates are rssordml, innlmli‘ng the i) Epngo—

meme or inter-calmed days, as the birihwday of Osiris Mill Horus.
On the wall facing ﬁle N. are Euergates H and his wifa fawllng in
presenca of Kbem Amman—Ra. Remains of tops-gr wplrica 1 maps of
the names are also disﬁnguishabls.

The names of Tiberius am} savers] other Roman emperors may
be read on the sc ﬂared columns mi fragments of walls.

Many blocks bearing interesﬁng inscripzions may be found
betwesn the temple and “line Nile. Among them is one, [unfortu-
nately damageﬂ, with a Sacred Inscription, specially sompcsed for
(Jm'bas, commencing: ‘Bcginning of the chapmr of the book of

sacred knowledge, composed fcrﬁre house of the venerable god. the
. .
lord 0f Ombos (:ng Q,‘ etc.
‘ 63

23. Frnm Kém Ombo to Assaﬁn.

vamp. the Map, p. 313.

26‘1'2 Bi. Steamboat in about 6 hours.
The W. side of the narrow river—channel is barren, while on the

E side there is truly a narrow strip of cultivated land. Dark-skinned,
mule Arabs of ﬁle mbe of the Ababdeh (p. 253) here and there
work a. water—wheel. Qccasionaliy a crocodile may be seen on the
bank; but travellers who ascend only to Philm are rarely gratiﬁed
will: a sight at one of these reptiles, — Daréwi, a station of the
mail-stasmar, on the E. bank, marks the llmll of Arabic. Ham
begins the Ethiopian dialect known as Xmas. which (lifters essen-
tially fmm the dialects spoken farther to the S. by the Mahala and
she: Baywatch (camp. 3). 804). Even in ancient Egypi, as we learn
from a papyrus, the inhabitants of she Delta did not underslaml {he
speech of Elephantine.

The scenery becomes tamer after the village of Kubéﬂi‘yeh, on
the W. bank. At tl—‘Aifwah, opposite, granite; appears for the ﬁrst
mm. Before we reach Aswan the scenary summers entirely new
aspects. As Wis approach aha city, the arena presmrmd to n3 is one
of great and peculiar bsxuty'. In from: of us lies ﬂu; S. extremity
of the island of Emphasizing (p. 271), with its houses shining from
bstween the palm trees; the scarlet uniforms cf British soléiers and
their white tents, ccnspicuous at a considerable (iis e, f m a
Page-332
266 Rom 2:62 ASSUAN. ﬂade.

ghange feature in the landscape; and sandseone new giveg place to
masses of granite on the banks and in the channel of the “ream.
Farther towards the S. this tack forms the natural fortress known
as the ﬁrst cataract, which consists of innumerabla cliﬂs of dark
parﬁncoloured granite, among which the Nile pursues its rapid
course towards Egypt. by means of many narrow channels.

26% M. (580 M. from Cairo] Aswan;

when the stream is 1991 the steamers are compelled to anchor below
Assuén, but 3: MM: “mus may touch nan: the bazaar. Dhahabiyahs anchor
at various points, scmetimes beside the island of Elephantine opposiée.
— The mail-steamers remain here frmn Sim. Gr \Veé. morning ﬁll Hon.
or Thurs. aflnrnuon at S Lm.- the three-wank» steamer halls2 days (Sun,
and lion.) for a visit to serum and Philm; and the four-weeks steamer
21;: days. Thoseliwhn wish to proceed to Wﬁéi ﬁnial: (p.255) must
quit the steamsr on Man. morning and take the train 80 Shellﬁl (Philly).
In 1890 a dhzhahiyeh belonging to Messrs. ﬂank and ﬁrm, near the
station, provirled beard and lodging for 11. per day.

Assuﬁn, Coptic Sun-n (Arabic, with ﬁlm article, AI-Suén, Aswan),
the steamboat terminus for the lower Nile, with a past aml mleyaph
ofﬁce, lies on the E. bank, partly on the plain and partly on a hill,
in N. lat. 24° 5’ 30". The fertile strip hsre is narrow, but summrts
numerous date-palms, the l‘xuit of which still enjoys a high repun
taticn. The native inhabitants bavs increased ands: ﬁle British
oncupation to about 10,000; but that number is only a fraction cf
its former population, when according t0 Arabian gamers, no less
than 20,000 died of the plague at one time: Some 0f the houses
am elaganm but the momma :39 not relay nvlslt. The howling
denishes have a house bare in which they meet on Fridays for
prayer. A considerable trade is carded on in the products of the
Sﬁdin and Abyssinia, brought hithor on camels, and shipped north-
wards by the Nile to Kane-l], Assitlg, or Calm. Amang tlm chief 91o
pom am) which feathexs, ivory, india—xubber, senna, tamarinds,
wax, skins, horns, and dried dates. The steamers and dhahabiyelxs
ems here boarded. by negroes, Nubians, 2nd handsome Bedulns,
with artislic-ally Messed curly hair: who can for sale nan-loll feathers
{mil fangs silver rings and sandals, ivory haops, weapons from Gen—
tral Africa, small monkeys, amulets, beautiful basket—work, and
aprons of leather fringe, the castnme of the women of the Sﬂdén,
which may Oddly call ‘Madama Nubia’. Grey anti black catﬁsh
feathers am wmpmatively cheap (8 plasmas =— er. each), Inger
and perfect. white feathers cost iﬂ—‘iﬁ fr. apiece snd upward. Tru-
ellers who desire to buy in quantity Ehould betake themselves to
one of the wholesale daalers in. the lawn. The lawn: is like $110
bazaars of rail N lie towns, but is :iistlngnlslwd I‘m in nxcallanl; lucid
pottery of great beauty of form. Candles, yomar, ale, and even
wlsrable Dutch cigar: may be abtalnad at a Turkish ‘bakkal‘. —
Copper money is, curiously ennugh, accepted Very unwllllngly in
Assuén and the last of Nubia; the traveller shnuld provide hlmnalf
beforehand with silver plasmas.
Page-333
3mm. ASSUAN. 23. Hum, 267

Brazen. The ancient Egyptian name of the town of Assuén was Sun

gm: "’”
, that 04' the whale cataract-district was 66mm; “3: a.
VVWVV 6

The :1an Sim means ‘ibe yiace Minx-ding an opening or entrance‘, becnuue
blue- the threghold of Egypt was creased Tim nnme seldom occurs in
hieroglyphic inscripeiens. becausa the metropoiis 0r chief town of the
name to which Sun belonged. was Elephaniine, 9n the inland of that
mama. The plug. hawaver. is very ancient, in:- even under the: Bil; Dyn,
the granite reqnired by ills builders (if Lower Egypt was furnished by the
quarries in its nelgbboni'imod. In lalcr times ﬁlm aily of the cataracts
wan frequently reign-ell so by Greek and Roman write“ nnrler the name
of 55mm: It acquired special fame on acwunl of its well (see below),
and as ilia place of banishment (if Janene! in his old age.

The Wall nf Synnn, in which there was no shadow at midday, and which
thus seemed as pave the: Syene was situated under ihe tropic, has disn «
penned. The report unis existenm‘: led ilielenrned Athenian Ei’aiosmenei (27 -
“16 3.6.). aitac'hvd to the. Museum at Alexandria. m the discovery of the
method of measuring the size of the earth that is still employed. ‘He
aeiecieil the are of the ennui between Alexandria and Syeue (Aswan) nn
the Nilﬂ, of which place be assumed that it was in tin) same. meridian.
Since he knew that tha midday sun at the summer solstice cast no shadow
within a radius of $0 Manila from Syene, and that in Alexandria at “18
name lime. ﬁle angle «Relax-mined by the shadow of the nun~gnmn¢m was
equal to elm-ﬁftieth of a circle, be correctly concluded that the distance
bvtween Alexandria and Syene must equal the ﬁftieth par: of a max-Minn
circle, or 7" 12'.+ The distance from Alexandria is Syena wan taken by
Eratosthenes simply at. the opular estimate of 5801) stadia, equal in
59536. (Lamina) or 518 Ml ( ultsdh). Paul-er. — A gimme at the map
shows ihai Assuﬁn no longs:- live under the tropic of Cannon. 1qu nmnewlmi
to the. N. of it, so that no shadowless well can axis: there at present;
but is has been calculated that in the M11 cent. 3.0. Syene actually lay
”may under the trap-5c, whencn we: may gnibar Him the Egy clans must
have nnticed the ahado‘wless well long before Erazosthenes an must have
known the true ailnalion of the tropic.

Juvwwl wns still living under Hadrian; but it is not quim certain
whemer, as is usually assumed, he was sent in Egypt by Bomitian. The
thaws-lain!) and satiriat, whi . living in Rome, had ﬁercely attacked the
actor Paris, who was a court~fnvcurite, and lie was on that acccnnt remnved
from the capital. lie was an: exactly banished but "ppointed wake: of
the garrison all Siene, on the moat remote front‘ of the ampire. Bis
lrenchnne musa found abundant malarial on elm banks of the Nile. His
15th Satire describes the contest bat-ween the inhahiiants of 01111105 and
Tamyra (Dendemh) at a 1mm! at chioe. The two hostile names. whom
he erroneensly calls neighbours (‘vicinos‘), had 10:: chm-ﬁshed a mutual
enmity on account of the gods they worship ed. At amyza ﬁhc cmcodilc
was persecutecl, while it was hall! sacred at leniyra for the sake ofSe‘bek
who WM worshipped than. Thus arose in strife gambling that mentioned
an 1). 7. The Tent-whim! evgn slew a mm o" mbos and demand him.
Juvenal is indignant, and indicates 1213: his residence on the Nile had by
no means taught him to love the Egyptians. I! ha camposed the 15th
satire at Syena. that town has the honour of being the birth~placc at‘ the
following line verses: —-

‘Thnt nalnre [gave- the noble man a feeling bamt‘

lSim proves herself, by giving him tears“

‘Thie is the neblesi; part of all human nature“.
The zen: Satire, in which Egypt in again mentionad, ﬂucmn to lie errone-
ously ascribed to Juvenal. Deubts also aziach to the authenticity of a
frequently quoted eciici of the mnperor Diocletian, ordering the Chrisiian

 

   

    

'i The sewn! diﬁ‘eience between Aiaxandria {31° 12') and. Assn-3n (24“
5' 30") is only 7" 6' 30".
Page-334
288 Route 28. ASSURE Insaspaem.

churches on the Nile as far as Syene to be torn down and the :emyles 10
he mammal

The place suffered greatly at ﬁlm barn-3s of the Blemmyeay but be—
came the seal of a Christian bishop, and appears. to hug rapidly regaineél
its prosperity under ﬁlls Khalil-1. Leo Africam: (ﬁll: cent.) saw here some
lowers of unusual height, whlch can only 1m regardad as the pylons uf
same large temple, as lliey were named Bav'aa by the natives, a. name
(anally traced from the Egyptian ‘pa wpe’ M. the temple.

Aﬁer the close of the 12th cent Annuin suffered still were severely
from the incursions of plundering Arab tribes, ﬁnally put a stop to by a
ankish garrison stationed here by the sultan Selim, after- the conquest
of Egypt in 1517. Many of the present-inhabitants claim doscnnt from
these Turks.

To the S. aml N. of ﬁlm landing-grime, at which various araft.
are always lying, two ediﬁces prnject into the river. One of these
is a ruined Arabian fort, the other a. ruined building, probably a
bath, for which stones of earlier buildings have been used, aml
tinting more probably From the Khalifs than from Roman times.
The uppsr part of the lawn presents large clay walls with few win—
dows towards the stream; the lower part is screened by palm-
groves, through whose great: foliagu gleam the outlines of ﬂags,
heaya of rubbish, a «link gray «lbw wall? and a purn whim minaraﬁ.
Huge granite: cliffs rise from the stream. To the W. lies the green
and fertile island of Elephantlne, shaped like the head of a lame,
3nd still far-tbs: to the W., on the Libyan bank, rises a mined Arab
castle, projecting darkly from the yellow sandwsloyas cf the range
of hills across which the lelegmpllwwires are conducted. Te the E
the 9:051)th is beunded by the Arabian hills, in which, more to
thus 3., are some huge empty graves of saints. Everywhere the eye
ﬁnds rest. The Nile, with its divided Channel, appears small; but
it still preserve: its venerable upset, for everywhere, even an the
rocks by the stream, are inscriplions and numerous memorials of
the grand old. times, especially as we look towards the island.

In Antiquities, Aswan is not wry rlcli. Besidos tlm small
Ploiemaic Temple beside the lanéﬂroute to P‘hilze (p. 274), only
a few Roek Inscriptions on the rlverv-bzmk call for mentions? One
dates from Rameren of the 6th Dyn.; several from the 1221: Dyn.,
from Usertesen I, from the 35th year cu" Amen-3mm IL coinciding
with the 3rd year of his ndngmd succassor Usermsen Ill, and (mm
from the 5th year of the same king: In both the lamar s. certain
Merltullote‘p is mentioneli There is also a stale of the 10th year of
Usertesen HI. and em) with the name Neferhotey, of tbs 13th Dy-
nasty. Another im‘gortant stale, dating from tlm ﬁrst year of Tut“

x i
was 11. {(-3 6' Q E, ), contains a detailed report of the conquest

 

r The remains of two usher iemples are éescribeé in else Description
de l’Egthe. but both have now dianppearud. One was a, talrasayla Por-
lice, the other a Hail, dedicated by the emwror Nerve to the gods 0!
Aasﬂan, Khnum, Bati, Anuku, and Rephthys, Ind m Gains, Isis, Sebek,
and Eathor. Champulllon saw the latter in 5329.
Page-335
Tombs. AssUAN. 21:. Route; 269

of some rebellious S. tribes in the land of Rush and the district
of Karma. Some inscriptions of a certain Senmnr before Hatasu
and her daughter Ranoforu Iocord the quanying am} despntch of
two large obeiiaks; mother is from the 9th year of Seti 1.; others
are by 3 Mes (Moses) under Mezenptah L; and another is by a. certain
Set-i, a Loyai son of Kush and president of the gold—land of Siptah,
and his minister Bai.

In 1885—88 some important Tombs of the 6th and 12th Dyng
were opened on the hills {‘Mount Grenfell’} lying to the W. oppo-
site Assuén, ﬁrst by Mustafa'h Shakir, British consular agent at As-
suﬁn, and then by Majorugonoral Sir F. Grcnfcu. They lie about
if; hi. to the N. of tho W. convent (Dé‘r elmgharMyeh}. We cross
the river in the small boat and land at a mined stone quay, whence
an ancient staircase, hewn in the rock, sscenis for about MO it,
ﬂsnked on either side by a. waﬁ of mono recent date: The Hairs
are in three ﬂights, from the top of web of which inclined pianos
{sari towards aha tombs, evidently intended for the transport of ihe
sarcophagi. At the summit of the staircase is a platform with
tombs of the 6th anci ﬁsh Dynasiiosﬁ Tomb No. 26, with a cun‘ous
door pinceé onouthird up the height of another door, belongs to a.

court-ofﬁcial named Sahel: F? J] , who ﬂourished under N0-

IMAMA

ferkara Pepi 11. (8th Dyn.) and was empioyatl on the pyramid of
{:33 vavx ’ M“

that king ¥- Q) A Moxinankh {one Plan, V01, 1., 1). 3(5).

The tomb consists of an oblong hall (69 ft“ by 2-6 it} with a coil—

1:
ing snppm‘md by 14 square pillars» Close to the entrant»g beside
the ﬁrm: pillar on the right, is the sunning ﬁgure. of Saben, with
red complexion and biack hair. 0n the back—wail the deceaseﬁ
appears spearing ﬁsh from a boat, with s companion engaged in
catching birds that rise from a bod of papyrus-plants. To the loft
is a. passage, ieading to a winding mummymshaft. On aha loft side
of this bomb, and not separated from it by any partition wail‘ lies

Tomb. N0. 25,1 heionging to a certain 359th (% ® E) This

contains eigbtoan columns in three rows, resembling tho so-cailed
promuDodc columns in the tombs at Bonihasan (p. 512). Be—
mean the iixst two rows stands a. squaro mono. probably HEM} as an
altar. To the right of the entrance are a few paintings. Makhn
leans upon a staﬁ', being perhaps lame, while offerings are pre—
sentoti to him (onus of his sons was also named Mokhm his wife
Aba W38 9. priosmss (IfTEIMhor7 while mother son, caiiodSuhéﬂx, was
possibiy the owner of tomb 26). In the adjoining paintings Mekhu
is shown making an oﬂ‘ering himself and pioughing with oxen and

 

i” Benet-Food b Eudga in the Proceedings of the Set. for 8th Arch.
for November 188 , and by [Baum in the Recueii X 181.
Page-336
270 Route 26. Assviw;

reaping. Gaod representations of Egyptian donkeys. From the
point where the two tombs touch, another yasaage leads to a
mummy-shaft, at the back of which is a square shamber.
Climbing up to the righe from this double tomb we find seven!
other :01]:be7 most of which have no lnacxiytians. One belongs to

’3 .
1 A6: Helmzb, son of A12: and of Pmatmai. A founline in:

scription over the entrance mentions festivals of the dead.
Anoi‘n-sr important tomb 15 No. 31, belonging to Baum:-

Nva

kaunekht ((3) {W} U LI) 1?, who appears from his name
\ A

(u have been a high ofﬁcial under Amenemha I. It {mama also to
be the sepulchre of his son 1;?) Si Rmpu: (son of Satihotep). whosa
portrait is of frequent occurrence in this tomb and who is named
commander of the light troops in the S. frontier dish-10m Beyond
a nurmw passage follows a hall wiﬁa 6 square columns, and than
another passage with three recesses on each side5 the ﬁrst on 13m
left containing a. beamed ﬁgure of Osiris. At the end of the second.
message is a small chamber with You: columns, whence a long
yassagc leads to tbs right to a quadruyle shaft.

Farther can, at the top of mmther ascent. is a tomb, named after
the Prince of Naples who was present at its opening, and belong»
ing to Baiichenu, a priest at the pyramid of Pepi Ii. (9.269). Then
the large sepulcllres of Khulna: and Serum-s. Finally on the ‘1". side
of the sauna hill is the interesﬁing tomb (No. 32) of mother Si
Ranput (son of Tana), who served under Usenasen L, and was
grandfather or great-grandfather of the above—named 81 Rean
through his (laughter Satihozap. To the right and left of the en-
rance are same half~defacad inscriptions‘ The antechamber has
sown ylllars, on one of which [:0 the right) :efereuce is made to
2. campaign undertaken by the king far 1115 subjection of a. hostile
tribe (Kat?) Anothsr important inscription {unfortunately dam-
aged), over the entrance to the rock‘tomb proper, treats of tha
inﬂuential position enjoyml by Si Renput. mule]: the king and in
the aamyalgn against) Kush (Ethiopia). To the left scanes of ﬁsh—-
spesring and fowling, anti cattle. In tha interior are a small tetra-
style hall, a long passage, and than another “nasty-la hall, at the
back of which is a racass. We may descend dimes {Exam this tomb
t1; the bank of the xlvar.

Among the other points 20 be visibsd hence are Elephamm,
1.2m mull Tcmplc ofiha Pioicmiea, the old Osman-in, and the Quar—
ries on the way to Philw,
Page-337
271
27. The Islaml of Elephantins.

This island is reached by smell boat in a. few minuﬁes from the landing?
piece. Cook‘s tourists are ﬁrsé crsnspoﬂed in comfortable boats to Ele-
phanllns and than to the buaar st. Assur‘m (small gratuity). A row round
lhe island is recommended {V2 hr}. The entire visit sakes barely an hour.

Elephaﬁtiﬂe was a. ylace of great sanctity from a very early ‘99-
r‘lod among the ancient Egyptians. It formed. a norm by itself

A.
with a capital, named like the entire island T .49 g Ab and also

7 Q Ab was the Egyptian for eleyhant, so that Eleyhanﬁne

is merely the Greek translation of o naﬁve name. The Arabs call
it simply Gazinh, ate. island, or Gain; Assam,- and it is also said
to be named es—Zéhir or ‘the blooming’. Though the vegetation is
luxuriant in many spots, the writer never heard the last—given name

epplied to it.

The Egyptian priests described the Sauna of the Hits as a myséery,
that would only be revealed to the soul at the twelfth gate of the under-—
world; yet at the same time, they wink-Al out the ‘aymbolical sources of
the Eile‘, so to speak, in the eddies among the rocks or“ the calaraets

,. . . A Q 0 is) {3
to the b. of Elophanlme, 'lkey named these [”21 f a E,

Q 5 O

:16. the Kerri or sources of Elephsmlae. Herodotus heard of these from
a scribe in the treasury of the temple of Athens sf. Sal‘s. The Hallmar—
nmsuian thought that the. priest WM but jesling when he told. him that
between Syene and Elegﬁsutlne lay two lofty peaked mountains, Krophi
and. Karma, from the mrdaz of which gushed the bottomless sources or the
Nile. one half of which ﬂowed to the N. to Egypt, the other half to the S.
to Ethiopia. — However foolish this opinion, which Seneca also regions,
may appear, ii. was not pure invaniion, for the monuments inform us that
the peoyls were really taught to believe that the Egyptian Nile had his
abode Among the rs ids so lbs 8. of Elephsmine. Some located it so the
ll. of the island of igeh-Senem (p. 297}. Khamn, the god of cements,
was revered before all other gods on this island; and next to him ranked
SM (9. form of lsls-Solhis), because the beginning of the inundation coin—
eldsd with the early rising of this constellation, 5nd. tin; mammal may be
regarded as the thresholxi of the swollen Nile entering Egypt.

In the year 1822 Mobsmmsd ‘Ali, in order to hello a palace for
himself at Aswan, ceased the destruction of the Temple othnum,
built; mule: Amenlmﬁep III. of the 13. Dyn. near the S. and of the
island, and also of a smaller Terr-pl: of Tutmex 111., lying more to
the N.W., and known as the N. temple. Travellers pass the letter
on their way to the city, in whose N. outskiris it lay. The savams
of the French Expeﬂllion saw this temple before its destruction and
published views of it. Now all that is to be soen on the island are
some huge heaps of ruins, a granite homey of the time of Alexan-
der 1., and a granite Statue of Merenpmh 1. Blocks of storm and
snowmen fragments lie around.

The inhabitarrcs of me two villages on the island, many of whom
understand nothing but Nubian, olfa- eoius. em 'l anti ulties (many imi-
tations), and fragments of pottery with inscriplions %ostraca) '
The. last-named are sometimes valuable; the inscriptions s.
Page-338
272 Rauié 27. ELEPHANTlNE.

ink in Demotie, Greek, or- Coptic characters. A roll containing poems by
Home: was also discovered here.

By far this most: interesting object on ﬁlm island is are “Kilo-
meter, an the W. siée facing Aswan, known to the Arabs as
Mikyda. The learned court-astronomer of the Khedlve, Mahmﬁd
Bey, restoreél this well-preserved monument to use in 1870. Strabo
gives the following excellent descrimiou, which is interesting to
campus with the monument as is now exists. ‘The Kilometer is a
well built of regular hewn stones, on the bank of the Nile, in which
is recorded the rise of the stream, not only the maximum but also
the minimum and avarage rise, for the water in the well rises and
falls with the stream. 0n the sinla al‘ the well are marks,ma&sur-
ing the complete rise of the water and all the other degrees 0f its
rising. These are absarreﬂ and. published for general information’.
Readers are referrml to our account of the Milgﬁs at Cairo (Vol. 1.,
9. 819). T119 Nilomem: at Elephantine consists ofanarrow rooﬂess
chamber, connected with the stream, and is reached by 52 steps in
6 ﬂights. The lowest landing is reckoned as 4 Arabian ells or about
7 ft. above tbs lowest water level (the dim. or Arabian all being
equal to 54 centimétres or about 21% inches). Above that paint
13 ells are marked, so that the highest poim marknd is 30 ft.
(17 Arab. e115) above the minimum water—level. Each ell is'tlivided
on the side of the well into 6 parts anti '24 kiwi. The 13 old Egyp-
tian ens, each divided into 7 spans and 28 ﬁngers, have a mm!
length of 6,895 métres {about ‘30 ft}, from which Mahmﬁﬂ Bay
obtained 53 centimétres as the equivalent for an all imzead of
the previously accepted 521/2 cenﬁmétres. The water-level ﬂuc—
tuates actually between the top of the ﬁrst all and the savanteenth,
i.r:. has a. range at Aswan of 16 ells of .54 cantixnétres each. Then
old aml new marks are placed on every third step. From the sur—
faca of the water rig-wards are 11 marks, of which, however, only
the half are necessary, as tlm Nile no longer rises higher.

Gloss beside tha river, further :3 the N., Has a massive Roman
Siructure, built of hewn blocks from earlier ediﬁces. Many of
these blocks are covered with inscriptions of diﬁarent dates, in-
cluding fragmautary lists of offerings and fortival calendars and
a. portion of u Nilnmatex, The rock—inscriptions close to the ﬁrearm
should also he noticed. They include inscriptiom' by Nefarkara
(Pepi), Urns, Antef 39., with one by Amenemha on the ether side.

The: highm- parts cf the island commana a ﬁne *Visw of tha
black and brown, rough and snmotb rocks of the cataract, among
which the Nile, split up into many small branches, somatimes
dashes in foaming energy, sometimes ﬂows in unruﬁ'led calmness.
Page-339
5? 273
28. 17mm Assam to Philae.

3. Manage of the First Catamct.

The First Cataract (Aral). Shelia, from the earlier form Djt‘udal) lies
lmtwnen 58811521 and Kaila! ’t must be; 1:353:51 by 1131 wlm riam‘re to
arm-Jami in their own 51111111111ch to WMi Halfah and the secoml cam:

hen the rive» 1- ir; 11% "11 1.1111 passage 15 guite wither.“ danger, and though
it is more difﬁcult at later perioés 0 the year. no 111111-21 serious
need he feared than some slight damage to iheboat. A c "able amount
of tile. lmwaver, is mmmxmed by the passage, 1t imam: fwnumble
circumsigncaa and when the river is at its Lighexl. “ding t‘mx mvessary
preparaiious, ._ 9-5 daya must 1115 set aside f0; ‘hé‘. paasags; and a lcfully
drawn-11p contract (11 3x11) will be found hart: cape '11313' 1111111111. Tr»
vellers who lam-u previously m-raxxgevi with their ér 111-1121 m be eun-
veysd to and from Wadi Kalfalx for a. ﬁxed 1mm including the plunge of
the cataract, will come all" best. Those who 11M 1‘ no such arrangement
must come 1‘70 terms with one of the 521511113 of the Shelli} or chihfs m‘ the
cataracts. With a reliable dragoman the matter may he stranged in ten
minutes but otherwise (too frequently the case) diﬂlsulties are sure to
arise. ‘i‘he boat wi 21 be objected to as too high too weak, 111‘ two large.
tbs water will be described as too low, 01- tlm wind[whi-cl1 must certainly
be taken into the calculation) as too gentle; but 15mm: of these
should be listened to, if the dhalzabiyeh has been a gxmliy liired to
amnzmi beyond the cataract Energy .1111! bakslliah 0Vercom2 difﬁculties.
If the dmgoman rave too recalcitrant, the trav r shuulvi threaten t0
raceed m Wadi Haliah by name! or by a dhahab y - 1‘er Philve, anﬁ to
ring s11 action for damagea agmmt the «imguman on his re; 11 to Cairo.
‘I‘lmt will generally "produce an eﬁ‘ect; but tho action Eu“ dax ages should
not. in the interim“. of future travellére, l): allowed to mnmm :11: empty
threat. lihahahyehs may 331: hired above the (smegma-t, but may are 111-
ferior rind dear. The mat of ascending the rapids varies from 11 o 51 ,
weanling to the 3120 at the bath, to which 11 be. h 02‘ at lewt 2-51.!3109t
be added. This amount of baksmsh must be All bananas us many as
m or (90 01- even, when the vessel in large and. the water low, 103 men
are required 10 tow a dhuhabiyeh up the rapids. Txavgllus may remain
on board during the upemtion if they choose, but as the passage takes
several hours, they lose much time.

Since the construction of the railway from Amman lo Phim, and
owing to the (linturbnnceu «13113611 bv the Beduims, the ,zum-zzey between
the cataracts is now very seldom maﬁa by (mimabiyeh, anﬂ the ascent of
the rapids by a puseugeI—hoas is quite exiseptioubl.

The descent of “11- {naming rapids 15 much mors inlemsifug. Those
who are very cautious may perhaps cause their more p1": nioua possessions
to be transported pnat the cataract by land; but 1111401124 911221 1lmost
never occur, thumb this wrecks of some uhahamyuha an 3132.111 prove
that the deﬁant is net absolutely Without olmxger. 1111 excel} 1t aw (,1 the
passage may be nhtaineé from a. roe]: 011 the bank {Bub 23!. 571 w, 1) 9'5)

Paasangen by Cook‘s steamers are conveysd dawn .Jw. rapids to
Aswan in a revving-boat for 4;. :1 bud an luterestmg trap, no: Wholly
devoid 11f danger. A hall; is made befam the chiai‘ mpm. in order [(1 new
she natwmy 1121147011113 11g it 4111 trunks of 216123.313 usual the visitor is
harassed by demands for bakshxsll The voyage is 311-: 11 can all thruuglx
smaller-2111111112111, mm at dangerous pointg, the hunt is secured by runes
See description of il- ixip of (his kind. on p. 279.

The dhahssmyeb ascends 111 untrmmled water as far as the island
of 5611311. There it- 15 surrounded by-the dark, sinawynﬁ and generally
most symmetrical forms of the Arabs who am 1.1:: tow it I31 rough the
rapids. Some coma 011 luau-d under the direction of a shékh, While
others remain on the bank. At ﬁrst the dhahabiyeh passes the be-
ginning of the rapids comparatively easily, lmt byjzmd ropes

anuxmz’s Upper Egyvt. I: ' "H3 -.
Page-340
274' Route 28. FIRST CATARAGT. From Anemia

are fastened to the mast, and the severe struggle with the descend-
ing current begins. Some heal on the tones from the bank, others
guide the course of ﬁre vessel with poles from on board, and others
in the water keep it upright or ward it off from striking on sharp
rocks in the river—bed. Old men, young men, and boys rival each
other in the most exhausting activity, ihat seems almosi frantic,
from in; never-ceasing ancempanhnent 0i elmnie, cries, and chants.
Every saint in 11"?! atlenaar is invoked; especially the benéﬂcem
Sa'id, who is believed we ramier esyecially effective aid in sudden
dangers. At the most difﬁcult point, the Bab el—Kebir {11. 278)
hays, for a small fear will plunge head-ﬁrst into the stream, 14:
reappear astride pieces of wood below the boiling snrf, through
which they swim with marvellous shill. If the work is not aeeom—
pushed before sun—set, it is left unﬁnished till next morning. —
It may be remarked that the Egyptian government contemplziee
widening Iha channel anti introducing ﬁxed regulations fur the
passage. — The time eccnyiad in inking the rlhahebiyeh thrnngh the
rapids may be advantageously turned to account by the traveller by
ﬁrst inspecting the cataract from the bank and then, by proceeding
by land to Philae, where he should pitch his tent- er take up his
abode in the Osiris ream (g). 295). The most necessary articles can
935in he transporteri through the rapids by a. few of the sailors
in the small boat. The dragoman will arrange the new household
with the assistance of the cook and the camp~sermltt. A few days
spent at; Philaa, especially at full mean, will not easily be forgotten.
~It is not advisable to bring the dhahahiyeh as far 321 the island
of 531161 and to visit Philzs thenca, because there are no donkeys
to be there obtained.

b. From Asses: to Phils by land.

Railway in lig hm, {are {1 plasma; one train daily (1891] to Shellﬁi
a: 830 rum, returning at 11 am, —- The Ride to Philm when 1‘]: hr);
exeellenl donkeys as the landing-place. Rich inhabitants of Assuhn spend
large sums n on their riding-annex; spiriied Abyssinian donkeys, if they
are also 1155 same, eon from 3-01. upwards. - The insycciion of ihe eh:
jeeti of interest of Aasuﬁn occupies 8-4 hrs.

The route leads want the PM Ojjﬂcz hm) the town, ihen turns to ehe
fight (leaving the Bazaar on the lefc) nnri folinwa the. telegrnybwiru
across a (5 min.) bridge over she railway to Phi”: (Shellii). The Ptole-
maic Temple lies a few minutes he the [embelow {nee helew). Thence we

rowed straighﬁ on :0 the Mohammedan Tembe, passin ’ on the way we
graves of in Austrian and afasaiior of the British ship Menarch‘ (Dew-e;
:1. i884]. The Qﬁarrier are reached from the Ptolemaic temple by con-
tinuing straight (in for a few minutes, then turning abruytly in“) the
desert path, which won bring: us in sigh: of tail Mocks ofsionn1 behind
which in the quarry {13. 2345). The obelisk lie: 10 min. 9.0 me right 05' she
abovenment‘leaed European graves.

1'. Tax Premium T335913.

The attentive observer will melee runny blocks and slabs with
hieroglyphic inscriptions built into the homes of Assnén. In the
Page-341
191V!“ “ “WW/WWW“
‘ WW" "12$ .m‘,‘

Jul.

  

     
   
 

Environs

of
AssuAu.

1: 1011000
Page-342

Page-343
in mm. , ASSUEN. 28.}20ute. 275

Marion nlm there is a bloc-k of granite with the mama of'l‘utmns ill
yossibly dating from a temple at Syene on which Khmrm lord of Xebu

QEQ ‘6’ liij 39$ 6, within Abu {Elephan me) is namerl. Serum!

attractive houses, one belonging to a wealthy Jew, form a kind of
suburb here;

To ilm M: of the mail lies the small memn, munded by Pm-
lémy III. Euergetes and adorned by Ptolemy IV. Philopator, but.
never entirely completed. On the left of the Fagsade is Energetes I.
am his wife Ber-amiss IL, before Isis in Sim (Syene). Isis is named
conductress of the soldiars, because the frontier-moo“ and its neigr m
bourhcad wars strangly guriscned frcm very early times as well as
under the Romans. (Under the Romans the Cohan-s Quinm Suenen»
sium was statieneﬂ at Contra Syme, the Cohors Sexta Saginarum in
the Claim Lapidariomm, on the E. bank to the S. of Syeue, the
Gohoru Primer Felix Thisodoaima (m ,E‘lepi’mniimS and ﬁlm Legio
Prime. Maximiam. (m Phila.) Next rppeara Ptulmis, son of Ener-
getea, otherwise Philopator, before Khnum, Sari; and Annie, who
each wears his special head-dress. 0n the right side cf the fade is
Energems 1., hefom Subek am! Ember, and oﬁfering incense before
Osiris Unncfa: (this good], Isis, and the child Horus.

0n the inner sides of the two doors leading to we antechamber
with its two square columns, and on the inner side of the door to
the adyttxm, are inscribed stirring Hymn: to Ids—501mg, t0 whom
appammly the little temple was dedicamd. To the knit, an the lat-
ter door, are 6.9. the words; ‘Thou limitsst forth (sari) the Nile,
that he may fertilize the land in thy name of Sothis, thou am—
bracest (311k) the ﬁeldsto make them fertile in thy name of Ankht.
All beings on earth exist through time. through thy name a. Ankht
( the living').

Unusually thick pillars in the ﬁrst and 13.115959. chamber of the
temple support ﬁat Guest abaci, upon which rests a broad but ﬁat
uchitrava, Cumplemd inscrimions are to he found only on the
partition—wall between this sanctuary and the preceding hall, on ﬁre

enhance door, and at a few points (In the inner W338.

Fear she temple is a rockninucripeion of the time of Xhu—envaten. To
the left appears 41m sculpts: Hm. before a gluing ﬁgure of Amcnhutcp III,
perhaps carved by himself, an; the right is a son of Men named Bet, mak-
ing an misting. Belt. is alga a masher-sculptor of the sun, whom: beams
radiate in the form oflmxirig. The cartouchea of Khn-en-aten are. dnei'mzeda

‘2. Tm; Arum Cami-mama.

A brig!" xlda brings us to an immense» number of Arab graves,
lying in the midst of rim clasert, each marked. by a rectangle of
nnhewn stones, and a slab bearing an engraved inscription. Many
are covered with a pail of vellow sand. The earliest of ‘he hundreds
of Epitaph: exhibit the venerable Cuﬂc character and. date mestl‘;
from ﬁlm 9th and 10th cent. A1). A few are glide; '
Page-344
276 Rams 25;. ASSUEN. Fran? Aswan

more recent. The inscsigtions usually give ills nameoftlle deceased
and the date of death, Texts from the Karin 326114.“: uncommon,
in spite of the Prophet’s calyx-ass (”Olllmalld mat the mum: of God anti
passage; from the Koran slmuld never be placed upon tombstones.
’l‘lie tombs of the richer dead are small domed erections. On the
summit of the hill to the right cf the road are same largc mosqucw
like Cenciaphs, dedicated to famous saints, such'as the Sllélihll’lalgm
mild, the Shékh "All, our lady (sitte) Zeinab, etc? Whose memory
is cclebmteé by festivals on limit birthdays, etc.

3. THE Qvuxms (Arabic Matadiﬁ).

About 1/4 hr. baycml Aswan we gain the mad and turn to the
E. (left). In a few minutes more we reach the verge of a hill, (in
which blocks of granite are scattered both singly and in heapci A
moderately lofty clilI hayond chews manifold traces of the industry
cf ﬁrm anciem builders, who, from the crewman of the pyramids to
the time of the P‘mlemiaa, drew their supplies of gnaite from the
quarries of Syene. Almost all the granita pillars, columns, archim
travels, roof-slabs, olwlisks, aml statuas that we have hitherto seen
in Egypt, hail from this wot.

Sycm'iz uwca its name in the early Greek farm of the names of Ana-xix:
(ﬂyene), alxhongh the stone here found. is far too poor in iaomblende to
be reckoned true syenite at 31” Hartman» describes le :4 follows: —
The, granita, which interrupts tha sandstone, at this cataracts of Amalia,
is of a reddish hue, caused by bright wee (ﬂoured ortboclue. It can»
mine a large yi‘oyorlion of translucent quartz allow, limwnlsh, pink, and
black mica, and only a little burnblendc. Huge. coarmkgmiuml mung» of
this composizicn are here found and also 31an Zine-grained macaw, con-
taining much red. ialapu, bu: liltle quartz and very listle min. Veins
$150 occur rich in dark mica and greenich oligoclwc, and containing a:
little pinite; and ﬁnally veins of a dark green dim-lie, in which the pro"
portion of hornblende is much greater thin that of albitc’. The glaze
on the rocks of thc cataracts is noticed mu x). 279,

The diligent hands of the stone—cutters of wills Plim'auhs have left
discinct trace: behind them This method: in which the blocks were»
mistrial} in triers may still be distinctly scan on a cliff facing the
R, about Swirl. in the NE. 0f the ﬂown. The skill with which huge
masses were handled and detached without injury from the cliﬁ m
which tlwy belonged, is absolumly marvellous. The certainty of the
pwcess adopted is amply vouched for by the fact that obelisks were
complsteiy ﬁnished on three sides before they wexa ﬁnally detached

 

'l This curious fact is explained by Prof. Zirkel ac follows. Th5 term
Symiie, which occurs in Pliny, was ﬁrst employexl in a. acieutiﬁc sense
by Werner in {788, who applied it (.0 the characteristic giant: farmed of
Eli-wining felspa: Incl black hornblende, fcumi in the i’iauencchc (laudg
m Saxony. Thencefcrm that. mineral ms» accepted as the typical sycuise.
Wad su‘baequemly provcd that Linc slime quanicd at Sycne was not
cyan-nits at all, is, that its fox-mail“ was Quite diﬁerent from lbs: of Elm
tucks inlhe Plan: nschc Grand; When Reziére diacovefcd ime sienna on
Mann: Smai he proposed to clear in mum: slightly and to call it Exam,
a mggeauon, however, which has never been adopted.
Page-345
to Philer. AssUEN. 28. Route. 277

from their native xock, this ﬁnal operation being probably accom-
plished. wish the aid of was weéges. Such an Ohcliski sﬁill attached
is the rank, may be seen about 1/2 M. to the S. 02’ (ha town and
about as far to the E. of the Nile. It is not easily found, as it is
frequently more iban half-severed with sand. At its breadest part
this obelisk measures iGi/z ft. ; its length is 9? ft. (72 ft. cut out),
no: reckoning the pyramidal top, which has slresﬁy been hswn. The
economy of material on the part of the stone—cutters is noteworthy.
In €118 quarry near the road and visited by all travellers, is a. huge
Block of Rock, from which ilua mason has begun to haw both a
mating—slab and a column. Here we; clearly perceive that the ancients
well nnéezstoocl how to disintegrate she granite with harass and m
split it with wsdgss. Numerous holes were made in 9. ﬁxed line
(probably with the help of (haw—boring), the damp wooden wedges
were driven in, and in this manna:- mlsrsbly even fractures wars ob—

tained. The art of splitting the stone by heat was also untierstood.

The Chupal transported from ElephnnLinc (L2. Assuﬁn) to Sail by
Aahmes (26in Byn.) was espaclully celebrztzd. and is meniinned by Hero-
dotus (11, 175}. 1; consisted of a single block and ils trans an occupied
20(10 men for 3 years. It is said u: have been '31 ells long, 4 bread, and
5 high, outsida moanuwmant; and 15% ails long, 12 brand, and 5 '"h.
inside measurement. It had :0 remain sulside the temple at Sans, (m
smoum of its size am! weight. Sail! more striking, in point of weight all
want. wan: the; Status nf Emma: 11. trans 0:le hence in the Rsmesswm
(p. 162}, and as stone Chapel, seen by I emdetus (I. 155) a: Bum. The
latter was cubical in form and measureé 40 ens each way; and it has
been estimated that. its weight must have been almut 7W1) shipping-lens,
a: more than twice ﬁne burden of a large East Indiaman.

 

 

4. Twin ANCIENT ROAD AND THE BRICK WALL.

We turn to the rightﬁW.) from the quarries and follow the broad
sandy road leading S. to Philas. Thu desert has a wondsrt‘ul pres
sawing vixeus. If the mad slang which the traveller now rides were
practicable for carriages, Stmbds description woulﬁ still ﬁt it in
every poiui. ‘We drove’a wriias the ancient geographer, ‘fxom Syens
(Assnﬁn) in Pll'llw, slum-ugh a very ﬂat plain about 50 stadia long.
At many minis all along lbs mail, and, on both sides. we saw ills
scandal, smooth, and almost conical blocks of ﬂask, hard rock, m-
sembling Esrmss-tawazs, from which mortars are made. Smallsr
blocks lie upon larger ones, and support 0121er in this turn; hers
and than, were isolated blocks’, em. ww Tn this we need only add
lint pious pilgrims and wayfsrers have chisellari their Names and
short Inscriptions on many of the shave—mentioned blocks. Princes,
digniﬁed yriests, and warriors, have travelled this way, as far back
as the times of the Amenamhas and Usenesens. Down 60 A late
perioni pilgrims were in the habit of {1151(1ng inscriptions on (31056:

stones, accompanied with the representation of the sales of the feet.
Among the more noteworthy of these Inscri‘uh'on: are a short one of

the faurth year of Userieaen I. (Q 8 LI}. and 3 Ian

"3: one of cm
Page-346
278 Route 28: shim ESH—SHELLSL. FrmnAsmfin

ﬁfth year (rfAmsnbotep111., in which the king is likened to a ﬁerce lion
that seizes the Kuslziéss in his slaw; A sum also, 0! the secend year of
Enmsea the Great, shows on the left Amman and on the rigid Khnum
”wearing the Mayan]; or award of victory to the king, who grasps a negro
%y the hair. Many other aneieni reliefs and insrriptions will be found by
the careful seeker, bozb along this road and beside the File in the direc-
tion of and beside essuﬁuﬁ

By»mxcl—‘ny we yereaiva considerable fragments 0f 3. his}: Brie}:
Wall, built we protect the road from the attacks of the Blemmyes
(p. 302) and also perhaps from the shifting sand. Strabo, curiously
enough, does not mention it. It ﬁrst swears to the right {W.] of the
mail, crosses ittwlce‘ remains than on the E. side! and ends on mallet
bank opposite Phﬂa. It is 3 ft. broad, and at some 99.95813 ft. high.

As this curious erection is almost entirely destroyed or covered
with semi in the neighbourhood of Assuin, and. as there are also
other points of interest on the land-route to Pllilm (the inscriptions
are most numerous mass the islaml), no one who has a reasonable
time so devote to the region of she ﬁrst cataract, should fail to
traverse this route once at least. The View of l’hilza, as the traveller
approaches the one. of his journey, will never be forgotten.

0. Route partly :hrougl: the Insert, partly beside the cataract.

This route is recommended 10 ihose who have arrived by steamer
and have aims to go i0 Phllze and «back once only. The serum is
Assuz‘m ls usually made (when there is moonlight invariably) after
sunset, in which case, however, the :raveller follows the desert-
roum all the way and sees marking of the cataract. The rocky nature
of {he riverwbank renders it impassible to skirt the stream (luring
the ﬁrst half of the distance from Assuén to Philze. After visiting
the quarries, therefore, we follow the above—described. desert-route
for about 1/2 lat. towards the 5., then enter a path diverging to the
right (“1); which brings us in about an heur- after quitting As-
suin to the rocky bank of the river, whose hoarse max is baud for
some time before. llama we are conducted to the make known
as tho Ethan ashashsllbl, or ”gates of the cataracts’, that with the
largest fall being known as Bab elchbir or ‘great gata’. Here we
may be fortunate enough to see a boat guiderl through the rapids;
but in any case there are always naked young Nubiens ready to
plunge into the river and sllew themselves to be carried down by
the foaming stream, either ash-ids of s tree-trunk or ligating un—
supported in the water; in the manner described long age by Strebo‘
The air of course resounda with shouts and requiem); for bakshisla.
These who expect in see a cascade like the falls of the Rhine a:
Sclrsﬁ’hausen will be disappointed. The foaming and impemous
stream makes noise enough as it dashes thraugh its rocky bed, but
there is nothing here in the shape of :1 regular waterfall. Yet all

+ These have been copied by Panda“ Pacria and Grifﬁth, and published
by m farmer ﬁn has ‘Seasou in Egypt‘ (1388}
Page-347
20 mm. FlﬁST CATARACT. 28. Row”. 27%

the same, especially when one beholds llm placid surface of the
river to the S. of Philw, arm can Sympalhlze with the quastlou of
the linml-claxi Ashorws in Lucm: “Who woulll have supposed that
ill-m3 0h gently—Slowing Nile, wcnldst burst forth with violent
Whirlpools into such wild rage? When the river is high all the
rocks in the bed of the stream am under water; but in February
and March even the smaller rocks are visible. lmm‘pliom are fcuml
on many of thnse, and cm 311 the cataractwislands, Nancy in number.
The smoetlx glaze, like a dark enamel, which covers the gtanite~

rocks between this point and l’hllaa will not esupe notice.

A similar effect was noaleed by Alexander 'von-Ilumboldﬁ at lha
mammals of llm Orinoco. “the gratin: of Auanin‘, uaya 3.. Han-imam,
"like that as the southern cal-Mauls. am, is distinguished by the remark
ably rounded shape of the blocks. These hava surfaces as smooth as
glass, and an of a black has, gllsmning in the sun, like the ﬂat surface
of a well-used smoothlngdwn. Thu almcst spherical shape seams to be
due to the attrition of the detritus washeﬁ down by the stream. The
dark colour, which only panatraiea a law line», as is easily 882111 in de-
tached fugmants, is amused by protoxicle 0:“ iron awarding in Bunsaig r.
or by silica awarding :0 Deluxe, precipiuted on me stone by me Iﬁe-
waler‘.

A. few yards lo the S. of the cataract lie the pleasant villages
ol’KahMah and Shallﬁl, shaded by palms and sycamores. In Ma-
kédah huge piles of drieq‘l dates lie in the open air, brought hither
from Nubia for transport to Egypt. At this point begins the: yassage
of the rapids downstream; and boats (pr dhnhablyehs f0: large palm
ﬁes) may be hired here, if desired, for the safe voyage to l’hila
through a picturesque rocky landscape. A bargain should be struck
before the boat is entered. A small boat costs 16 glam-es by tariff;
a «lhslla‘niyeh not lass than 10 fr. The boatmen tiemand much larger
sums at ﬁrst.

mem 59 um (hammer In A 351.51.: 110,113 This Expedition can
hardly be recommended‘ for even when the river is fall it is not an»
nlzendad with ﬁnger. ll. Brugach and Eben: both accomplished it. The
lalim' “words that ha lnoks back upon the experiemce nut withouz pleasure,
especially on account of the cxtranxdlnuxy skill and presence of mind of
she sauna-3915 who steered. He describes the trip as follows. "I had.
two of our own Miler» on board, one ablobodiad, the other a Nubian:
little; more than a boat ~Thz old cataract16‘is was at the helm. The
rear of the enlaracz was heard beyond the village of Shelli}, and became
lomiar every minute 8» Wu: proceeded. The racks and Ahmed in the rival--
bed are reddish brown, lint whewvar they have baen washed by the
stream and then dried. by the scorching sun at this latitude, may glisten
like the, black Gui-face of an evupuraling pond. Behind and helm-c, :0
2m: right and la“, above and bolow, I saw nothing but ranks, li‘vﬂe peels,
and the blue sky; while my sense of hearlng was as though spell-bound by
the roar of the; waters, which as man as the keel of lha bout approached
the raplda proper, liftad u their voice as loud as surf 1&5}:ng against a
recky can! in a norm. hen followed some minutes of the most imam-a
exertion for the crew, who cheered and encouraged thumaelvs-s by con—
ﬁinual invccntions to helpful mints, eapecially w the holy Said, the
rescuer from eaddcn dangers. With each stmke 0: the ears brake forth
in ‘ya Said” (0 Said) or ‘yn Mohémmed‘ or ‘God ls gmcloua‘; while the
arms wialding ﬁlm one dared not relax their (strength; at it wna essential
to kaep in the middle of she rapids in order to avoid being hurled against
the rocks. The Arab, who guided the bout, wag a sinew old mm oval-
Page-348
280 Route 98. FlRST CATABACT.

(sixty yeirs of age; who sat with his long neck arming forwsrd ac long
as we hovered in danger. and who1 with his ayau wax-wing with intame
excitement and his lean bird-like face, looked like an eagle on tha look
out Q‘s: prey. All went well a: ﬁrst. Only a mm and boy. however,
were rcwing on the lat: side, whjla twc men warn rcwinw an the right.
As we quilted ihe aewnd ragid and were entering a di eras: channal,
ﬁlm aailora on the; left side had to row with all their strength; that,
haweveg proved inMaquaia rmri the stream swag“ ﬁlm boat round, so iha-i;
me seem was foremost. This was: rha culminating paint 9: the puma.
The. re‘is without losing his presence of mind for m imam, guided um
helm with his fact, while he assisted the rowers with his arms, turned
the boat round once more. breuiht lt into the right channel, and ﬁnally
into the lam! npid part of the N313, and 80 to Armin. The enﬁre put-Inge
lasusi 42 minutag.

F302: MAHADAH T0 Farms the crooked mad skirts the bank of
the river. The village—children pursue the traveller, begging for
bakslﬂsh. When ﬁlm gm, covmd will: granite-(lust, grows 11mm"):
and begins to lead over smooth granite, the “wallet should dis—
mount. The curiously~shaped rocks in the bed and on the bank of the
Nile bear numerous inscrlytlcns. Same of them look as though they
had baen built up out of artiﬁcially roundatl blocks. These forms
seem to have struck the ancient Egyptians most famibly, iox'ln the
:elial‘ of aha Source of the Nile at Phila (y. 294) — one of the few
representations or” landscape in Egypt — the river-god crunches
under a pila of blocks like Chas-a. In 25 min. w»: reach it amall plain
and obtain a charming view of Phillis, the most beautiful spot on
the Nile, and. the» goal of iravallers who ﬁo not wish to go on to the
secular} cataract. The small plain above—mentioned, to the E. of the
islaml, is shaded with handsome sycamore trees, near which is a
long low building ofa anal—European apyaarsnce, with battlementad
roof. This is {be damned suction of the Roman Catholic mlsslonarias,
who llama loumied settlements in Central Africa, all of which, how—
ever, incluéing ﬁnally that at Kharsﬁm, have been
abandoned. The walled island, Gnu-rounded. by clan
smooth Wm.“s presmts, with m imyosing temylu,
gmceful kiosqua, aml ﬂourishing vegetarian , a
beautiful contrast to the rugged, bare and precipi-
k tons rocks that bound it, especially an aha N. am}
W W. To the N. a massive double rock, with the name
m o! Psammetikh ll. conspicuous upon is , rowers

C above the rest; 10 the W. rises the rocky island of

L4 Bigek (p. 29?}, with numerous monuments and in-
scﬁpﬁions. The ferrymoat is :0 “ma found at ﬁlm

village of She-1131. Between the railway-station of Shellﬁl and the
Nils is a ﬁne yam-grove, with the tents of the Egypl‘lm troupe
under British command. The handsome dhalxab‘l‘yeh near the bank
is the residence of the commandant. Breakfast may be olminarl on

board, ind those who come by rail are recommended to bring their
wovlalons with them fmm Assam.

D

   

  

(320-496
Page-349
281
29. The Irma of Fhilse.

Bail: the. lourinbsteamern and the mall—steamers allow one day for a

to Phllae. Tourists by the {ourwcoks alumna: may vial: the island
lw e, and they u‘e recommended to (20 so. Travellers 9.0 Nubia who arr:
unahla to ﬁnd ﬁrms tn visit Philae on the outward journey, shpuhl not
an to devote to ll at least a few hours on the return; aiﬁkar on the
evening of reaching Shellil, or on the next morning, after spending the
night on board tho summer. When mars than one visit is paid the trav-
eller aheuld came (met) by rail, ones by land returning by boat, Ac»
commodation at Philas can cnly be obtained if a dhahabiyah happens :0
be there.

Tha mum) of Philm is derived from the old Egyyeian, in which

C 0
it is called, with the article, Pa-aieic I , or usually mere-

E w A
ly Alek- A . This name occurs thousands of times on the
an 2%
island itself, with many variations, and yrcbably means the lsland
of Lair, 21¢. of Causing or of the End-l, referring to the Nilewoyags
hither from the N. The Copts called it Pilak or Petals, and the
Arabs used to call it Bilak. Now—a—days Ilene of these names are
known to the nativas, who usually call the island Ame ci- Wogad,
after the hero of one of the tales in the Thousaml and One Nights,
which has umlargonn considerable change in the Egyptian version
and has its scene transferred :0 Philw.

The boalmen relate it as l‘nllaws. ‘Once upon a time share was a
king, who had a handsome ﬁwouriie namedl Ana: sl-vaﬂd, and :r. vizier,
whose daughter was named Zahr al- Ward, 115‘ Flower of the Rose. The
lwa young people saw uni fell in love with each other, and fmmd oppor-
tunitiaa of meeting secretly, until they wax-a dismverrd through the im—
prudenca of the maiden‘s attendant. The vizlgr was violently enraged.
and, in order to secure his daughter l’mm the farther pursuit of tha
young man, despatched her Lu the: island of Philm, when-c be caused her
to be imprisoned in a strong %stle (the temple of Isis) and clnszly
guarded. But Anas el-Wogﬁd eonlcl not forget his love. He forsook the
court and wandered far and wide in march of her, and in ma course of
his travelr showed klnéness to various animus in the desert and also-
where. A: lag! a hermit tcld him than 115 wculé [incl 23.23: el—Ward on
the. island of Philaz He arrived en the bank of the river and beheld the
walls of the castle. but was unable to ran/ch the island, for ﬁre WMC‘: all
around it was alive with crocodiles. As he stood lamenting his fate one of
the danger-«ms manners uﬁ‘ared lo convey him to ﬁlm island on hill back, out
of gratitude for the young man’s previous kimlneas to animals. This lever
was thus able :0 reach the prigon of his mistress, and. the guards enﬁ‘ered
him to ramain on ﬁle island, as he raprerenteé himself to be a. persecuted
merchant from a dismal: land. Birds belonging ta Zahr el~Ward assured
Elm zhaﬁ aha was on me island, but he could never obtain sight of her.
Meanwhile the lady 1:130 became unable longer to endure her fate. Letling
hernelf xiown from her prism-window by means of a rope made of her
clnzhes, she found a compassionats ship—muster, who conveyed her
ma island. in which 8115 lover all: wught then was. Then followed an her
nuriud of search and ﬁnally the meeting of ﬁlm lovers A marriage, with
the censenﬁ of “is father, ends the tale. —— The 03m; Room on Plans:
(1:. 285) is regardexi by thus Arabs as ﬂu: bririsl-chamber. The tale in the

    

 

'l This meaning belongs to the old Egyptian root Eek, which in prev
[served in the Coptic ’Am-x.
Page-350
282 Route 29. PHILE. History.

Arabian Nights emit; as follows: ‘80 they lived in the bosom oflmpplnue
to the advanced age, in which the rows of enjoyment, shed their leaves and
leader friendship must. take the place of ”1553032?

it seems as though this legeml had erisen on Egypt soil. and as
though it contained some echoes of the ancient mythology of Phllm,
9.9. llhe search of Isis for her beloved Osiris anal the disposal of the
goddess on an island. in the Nile. it- ie even more remarkable the:
Arms el-Wogﬁd reached llue isleml on a. crocodile ami that on the
W1 side of the temple of leis in a relief (3» 294) representing i118
mummy of Osiris borne by a crocoﬁila. _

The rocky island of Black, opposlre Philw, seems to have been
an even earlier pilgrimnmsort than the latter; yet there was yrobably
a temple also on more in comyarntively early times. In the 4&1}
cent. 3.0. this must have been either unimgortam or in ruins, for

the name of Nekht Mb)” M i Eecianebue 11.,
3 34a...

is the olﬂesi name occurring as ﬁlm of a builder? and that prince
reignati as a rival king to the Persian Achsemanides and racognizaé
only by his countrymen, at the date mentioned. The work that he
began was zealously continueﬂ by the l’tolemiee, who haul greater
resources at command, but even they left amyle room for additional
builélngs anti farther decorations at the hands of the Roman our
perm-s down to Diocletian.

The principal temple, like the island itself, was sacred. to Isis,
whose priests resided hers down to comparatively late times as a
learned college. As one of tho graves of Osiris was situated lmre,
ii early became a. pilgrimage rosoxl for the Egyptians, one of whose
solemn oaths also was by the Osiris of Philea. When the cult of
Isis as well as that of Seropls became known to the Bollonos and
afterwards to the Romans, many Greek and Italian pilgrims nachos!
to the shrine of the mysten‘ous, benign, anal hassling goddess. Even
under Ptolemy Physkon the priests were compelled to petition the
king to check the superebundant stream of pilgrims, who consumed
the temple—stores and threateneﬁ to reduce the priests to the neoco-
oily of withholding from the gode thelr beumien offerings (comp.
p. “284). On all the wells and columns of the temple are inscrip-
tions, placed there by Greek or Roman ofﬁcials, tourism, and. pil-
grims. They are most numerous in the 8. part of the temple and in

 

i in the Thousand anti One Night: this lode 00011933! the 37m to
she 3305b nights. is alien considerably from the versions or the sailors,
which moreover vary very much among themselves, The “In 9! Ana:
abWogﬂd and his mistrass El-Ward (The Rose”) is the title of 3 litho-
graphed pamphlet of 31 leaves in which the above scary is narrated in
verse in the fella‘llgln dialect {not She literary Arabic} ‘Wilh soversl other
pieces, “I. the ‘Cni and ﬂux l‘mis‘, ll supplie: the usual material for re,
man; in me Am?» caller-houses, and is thus universally known. it
a M ‘I shall build for thee 5 emails in the midst of the sea (4.3. want)
u! K5994} 4.5V Nubia.
Page-351
38 3
.55. he aga— HIP
Page-352
TEMPLE 0F ISIS 0N PHILA.

1 2 1005

no v.‘
, , ,

m;__ . ,,
r11.§'—\.51‘—1‘"om “"

 

mummcoogle
Page-353
WW 2)., (300818
Page-354

Page-355
Iiistory. 13311.55; 29‘ Rome. 283

tho oldest paﬁ, dating from Neotansbua. We know also shot she
goddess ofPhilea was worshipped by the Blemmyes (p. 302:), who
maintained the custom of human sacrifices until the time of Justi-
nian. After Diocletian, who yersonally visited the island, had con“
quorati these restless children of the assert, he destroyed the
fortiﬁcations of Phillie, and new temples were erected. in which
priesis of the Blemmyes and Nobadee were permitted to offer
sacriﬁces to Isis along with the Egyptian priests; And these tribes
even obtained Che right of removing the miraculous image of
tho mighty gmhiess from ﬁlm islsmi at certain solemn festivals
and of retaining it for some time. Even after all Egypt had long
been christianized and the Theba'id was crowded with monks, the
ancient pagan-worship still held. sway in Nubia, in spite of the
Edirts of Theodosius. The Nobudos were converted to Christianity
about 5410 AI). under the auspices of the Empress Theodora, and
shortly afterwards Names, sent by Justinian to Egypt, closed the
temple of lsis on Philm, and sent its sacred eontents to Constantin-
opls. A: ﬁrst the people of Philw adogted she orthodox cream hul
when Egypt was conquered by Islam, they exchanged this for the
monophysite heresy. Although an inscription has been found in
the promos in yraise of a Bishop Theodorus (577' All), who dies
dicsted a portion at least of the temple of Isis to St. Stephen, it
is doubtful whether Philae was ever on oyiscopal seat. It is certain,
however, the: Christian services were held in the hypostyle. The
inscriptions and reliefs were plastered over with Nile-mud or had
crosses carved upon. them, so as to spare the feelings of the faith—
ful and to exercise the evil spirits: w Like Christinnlly3 isleim was
late in ﬁnding its way to Phila, and there is not atraee ofa mosque
or anything of that nature on the entire island. Nubia was effec-
tually conquered in she 13th cent. by the Egyptian sultans, who
included the cataract-region in their yr’ivote domains, and thus
secured ihe tangles from destruction. -— Philie was described in
1737 by Harden and Pococlce, though at the! time the natives were
as hostile to strangers as they are now friendly and obliging.

Isis, the chief dolly of the islami, is usually represenled in She
triad comlilisﬁod by Osiris and Horns, but she frequently also
appears alone. Everywhere7 in her various forms, she occnpies
the foremost place, just as Hathor does at Denderah. The deities of
Philee incluue Ba and Month, the twin-gods Shu and Tomas, Seh
and NM, OsiriSHUnnoi’or (Agathodsamon) and Isis, Khnum and
Sati, the gods of the cataracts, News the son of Isis, Esther, and
the ehilﬁ. Horus. Thoth, Safekh, and other deities also frequently
appear.

P151103 is the pearl of Egypt, and those who have several days to
spend use the cataract? should certainly take up their abode noon in
It is 420 yrls. long, 150 yds. wine at the hroaﬂest part, and has a.
oimumference of 980 yds. It is uninhabited, but an old watchman,
Page-356
284 Rants 29. PHILAZ. Temple

who lives with his children and grauﬂchilﬂrsn on Blgeh, willingly
assists travellers. The view of Philss from the ﬁver-Shank ls rm—
sxpectmlly hemmml, especially to those who have just quitted the
rugged reeks of the cataract or the arid desert; while, on the other
hand, the views fram the islaml, especially from its rocky S. and,
are imposing and sometimes yesuiisrly wild.

The buildings an the islrmd 'wllish (lemma 8 visit are: 1. The
*Temple of Isis,- 2. The Cluspel of Hathar; 3. The Ruins amt the
Portal of Diocletiaﬂ, in the N.W.; and 4. The ‘Kz'osque. — Bégeh
and the Cataract Islands ales repay a visit.

The Temple of Isis.

This beautiful structure dates from varixms periodsa and its
«liﬁsrant parts shew an almost aapn‘sious irregularity in their ye—
sitiens with reference to each other. The traveller is recommemied
to visit the various porﬁcns in the following order, but he is warned
against lingering too long over any cf them, lf his time he Emltcd
0: if his insgrectlon have no special scientific aim. It is better to
obtain a. gnod general impression from the whole, than to examine
the details minutely. In order to understand the strangameut of
the temple, it must not be forgotten that. it was prséminently a
pilgrim-resort. The {arocssslons of pilgrims, whether they ap-
proached from Egypt or from erbis, were compelled to street for
the S. and of the island, for the rocks to the N. of it prevented
anything like a ceremonial apyresch. The yortals of the temple
therefore faced the 3., and the festal boats disembarked their pas-
sengers on the S. coast. We likewise begin our visit from the S.,
or mere exactly from the extreme S.W., to which we proceed
direct from the landing—placer Our attention is ﬁrst attracted by
the strong erection of lxewn stones facing the stream. The steps of
a Stone Staircase within the qnsy-wall are. still is be seen on the
S.W. west; am} there was anather staircase on the S. coast, to the
E. of the building of Nectanebus.

s. The Builéing of Nectanehus (Pl. A). Two Obelieka flanked
the entrance to the hypmhral Fore—Court, which the pilgrim entered
ﬁrst, and where he was received, and perhaps also examined and
taxed. With the exception of the central portion of the ﬁrst pylori
(p. 287), dating from this same king, Nectanabus 11., this is the
oldest part of the whole temple. The obslisks, made of sandstone,
instead of the usual granite, were small and stoorl upon stone chests.
The W. obelisk is still standing, but the E. obelisk is represented
by its chest merely.

The E. obelisk itself was found gyrostrste by Bunker in 18%, wind :1
his request removed to Alexandria. by Belznni, despite the protests 0f
Drovelti who regurdml it as his: prints property. Fran: Alexandr.“ l!
was taken to Englmml1 where it now stands at ngsten 11511 in Dorset—

abirer 9n the lowest pawl of the pedestal is a long Greek inscription
Containmg a painter; addressed by the priests of Isis to King Eﬁefg’ﬂeﬁ H-
Page-357
oy‘Isis: PHIL/ii. 29. Route. 285

and his two wives, a ninst the exgsnss eavsed by the too frequeni visits
of 1-0an officials 2m their reiinues , which impoverished an: iamyla.
Above this are swo othar inscriptions. only fragments of which are pre-
served, in which the granting of the petition by “is king and the cen-
uequoni royal decree are. announcedi

This obelisk has been of the greatcsi impartunce for Hm interpretation
of the Egyptian hieroglyphics. The names of Ptolemy liner-gates and
Cleopatra, which occur in Greek on the pedcsiai, wen: discovered by
Chmpollion in 5822 an the. o‘nelink itself, and from ﬁlm lame: name he
was enable-j so add a few more alphabetical signs to those already ascer-
tained from the Rosetta. decree (VOL 1,, 1:. iii}.

The W. Obelisk, as we have said, remains in sin; though it. has
lost its point. Upon it is inscribed, in Greek, a petition from Timon
autos, son ongssiphen, t0 Isis and he): fellewwods, dating from the
time of News Dionysus. There are 3150 some Arabic inscriytions.

The hypm‘nrai vasiibuie was bounded on each side (E. smi W.)
by six columns and one of the obelisks. The six W. columns are
still standing. ism (miy three sinmys of the E. row remain. Between
the columns were sarexennwalls1 half as high as the shafts, and
adorned with concave coxnices and balustzades of [Imus-serpents.
The columns, only 21/6 ft. in thickness, are 15% ft. high, and ham
caiyanpitals supporting an abacus dacomtaé with the Rather—
mask, on which rests a small chnpei. Thsse capitals, which re-
sembla those of the Ytoiemaic epoch, are specially Ismsxkable, as
they were erected by Nectanebus before the yeriod of the Lagidze.
i’eciannbus who maimaineti himself for some time in opposition in
ihe Persian kings, ayyears 10 have delighted in comparing himself
to the ancient Pharaohs, as we may gather from his ﬂxst name Ra-
Fchepereka, which was also that of Usariesen 1. cf the 12:}; Ellyn;
and it is passibiu that he adoptad, in the same spirit, chi and for—
gottan artistic farms in his erecs‘mns. It is sexism that the Hamm-
mask at the top of the columns is only found earlier than his time
an the monuments of the 1821i Dyn. at Dér al—baiixi (p. 223) and
gum) (in 236). The architects of the Ptolemies were afiarwards at—
tracted by the abacus acioxneri with the countenance of tin) goﬂdass
ofDanderab, adopteri it, amt farther developed the sculptured calyx—
cagital, here ﬁrst introduceii by Nectanabus. ——- On the W. and E.
Sines of each 31‘ the six standing columns are dedication‘inscripxions.
On tin} outs: {W3 side of the west southerly ceiunm (next to this
obelisk} is the inscriytion: ‘Tha good gmi, Joni of both wsrids,
Ra-kheper-ka, son of the sun and lord 0f the disdems, Nectanebus,
the ever-living, erected this sumptuous building for his mother
his, the bestow“ of lifa, in order to enlarge her (Wailing with ax-
ceilent wmk, fax time and for eternity". ~— On nine oumr side of ilxe

@353 A .
third calumn the name 01" Philaa syysai-s as Alek 63 {With the
article, P—alek), a form foumi at many othex pisses, anti the mistress

CL} ' @ "VD I‘I‘J‘N‘A (.3
of the. island ' _ d i? A(T)- @ rvvvvw ,
is name 115ng '16 r if
Page-358
286 Route 29. PEILAE. Temple

Isis, the life giving goédese of Aab, he. of Abuse” or the holy is—
land. The last name deserves mention here, for the spot known to
the ancients a: Abetoh, which must have been peculimrly holy in
their eyes, is named innumerable times in the inscriptions of the
temple crisis. It must therefore he looked for 0h Philua itself. The
inscription on the Archiircwe of the outer er West Side states that
the king erected this building for his mother Isle, eml that he re-
built the hall for her of good white hewn stone, surrounded with
columns, with inscriptions throughout its whole extent, anti, as the
line below the erehitreve adds, yeinteé in colours. The inner side
of the architreve bears an invocation ta Isis, mother of the geds.

This little temple had. doors on the E. and W. sides, not,
however, oyposite to each other, end another on the N. side, next
the main temple. The last leads into a syacioue Fare—Court
(Pl. B), eneloeed on the right and left by covered Colanmcka. The
W. eolounade (Pl. F} follows the bank of the river, while that tn
the E. or right (Pl. D) runs in the direction of the centre of the
ﬁrst great pylon, but not at right angles to it, affording an example
of the variety of axial direction exhibited throughout the temple.

When we remember that a. yertion or” the ﬁrst pylon end the
hypeathrel space, which we have just quitted, were built by Necta-
nebue, and that all the other parts of the temyle are of later date,
we have an (“legume explanation of the great irregularity dieyleyad
111 its glen. it is quite certain that the structures that now hear
the name of Neetenebus {a portal and a vestibule) were not the
only buildings on Phila: under that king, for the construction of
every temyle, without exception, began with the sanctuary and
euderl with the doors. We may assume that an extensive temple
stocrl here before its removal by the Persians; end that the letter
largely destroyed the works of their rival. The hearts that were
spared were their incorporated by the Ptolemelc builders, while the
Romans united the work of the Lagidaa with the wcieut veetilmle
of Neclene‘nus by means of the tapering peristyle court

in. The Golomeded court. This space is bounded on the W.
side by a long wall, pierced here and there with windows, which,
based on a ﬁrm substructure on the riverdbeuk, forms the back of
9. narrow, but unusually long Colonnade LPI. F; iClll ydeg. The
letter, built under the Romans. has a row of 31. (formerly 2‘; co—
iumns, each 16 ft. high, on its E. side, and hes a roof of good as.-
eetteti work. The colour of the hieroglyphiea em: representatimu;
is still remarkably vivid in various places, especially in the S. por«
tion near the vestibule of Nectanebus. There ayyeer Nam with his
curtouches, Claudius Caesar and G-ermenieue Autocretor befere
Horus, Tesentnefert and Pinebtati {who also appears at Omhoe,
p. 261) worshipping the lord 01‘ 01:11:05. Farther try the N, on the
back wall of the celonrmie are the name of Tiberius and 3 ﬁne
Greek inscription, beginning ’Aphdmo: Aievucigu, dig-ﬂy é'rroi-
Page-359
of his. mum. 29. Route. 287

nos, (sic. The translation of the latter is as follows: ‘Ammonius,
son of Dionysius, fulﬁlled a vow male :0 Isis, Serapis, and the
gods worshipped along with them, by presenting to them the wor-
ship of his brother Protas and his children, of his brother Niger,
his wlfelﬁlidemas, and his chlldrenllionysiua and Annbas. On the
12th Payni of the Siet year of (Beneath — This (lesser ie Caesar
Augustus, in whose reign therefore the well. though furnished with
inscriptions by later emperors, must have existed at least in a rough.
stage. The ocher ineorlyiions are oi' similar purport.

Al. the S. eml of the E. Colonnade (Pl. D) WM a. large Halt
(Pl. (3), of which only fragments of the N. and E. walls remain.
It bears the name of Tiberius. The colonnade, which adjoins its
N, wall: was never entirely completed. Only three of the cayitals
of the columns {including a very ﬁne palmwcepital) are ﬁnished;
the rest are merely roughly blocked out, but they are of interest as
showing us that the more elaborate carving was not taken in hand
until after the capitals had been placed in posit-ion upon the shafts.
The E. colonnade does not extend as far as the ﬁrst \pylune3 but is
swarmed from them by a small Temple of Allison-lawns, the Egyp—
tian Embassy, son of Pteh (Pl. 19)., consisting of two chambers, and
facing the B. The Greek inscription (veer the entrance dates from
Ptolemy V. Epiphanes, his wife, and son, the Egyptian cartonelme

on the door itself from Ptolemy IV. Philopator ( {zinc} a).
=3 I

~— The W. eolonnnde which skirts the river, is joined on ﬁlm N.
by a narrow passage (Pl. 3.), which lands past the pylons at some
dietsnce to the left (W.). The yerlstyle court, for which fore-court
would be 0. more accurate name, is thus by no means enclosed by
the pylons.

e. The First Pylon (P1. E) turned onwards the approaching pro”
sessions two lofty and ‘moed Towers, with a. narrow Portal between
them. This portal, bull: and adorned. by Necianebue IL, is the
«)lgiesl. pan of the pylon. The smaller porial, to the left, like the
temyle behind it (Birch—house, See p. 53:89)3 which stanrie in rela-

. V _ V ‘1
tlon with it, dates from Piolemy VII. Philomena (L) g a). while
\Q

the decoration of the facade was added by Ptolemy X111. Neosﬁim
nysus. Within the chief portal appears also Ptolemy X. Sore: IL,
wltll llle mother and wife, presenting lo Isis the symbol of a field.
The entire imposing erection is 150 ft. brow} and 50 ft. high. The
S. faoede, fronting the processions aﬁvenning from the Nile, is

covered with Beliefs en areas.

All each elde of the leru! Doorway (Pl. 1)) is a ﬁgure of Isis. On
the upper put of the left tower is the Pharaoh Buriilclng so ()siriz and
Isis, and to Isis and Home: on the corresponding part of the right tower,
‘13 1"Plleere before Home and Nephthys, and before leis am: Horns. ’l'hu
lower puts of the “men! are. devoted as neunl to military scenes. he
Phanuln (New: Dionysus, 53 15.0.) appears in the amiler oi hi» one
Page-360
288 80413229. PHILE. Taupzc

to the. right, his with Horvlmﬁ presenia him with ihe and! of viciax-y.
Ilialf of the. ﬁgures have been deliberately deiaceé.

The Amen; of Me Pylom, cemmanding an excellent view of the whole
island. and its surrounding, is made from the peristyle court entered by
the camel portal. Within this portal to the righl: , is the iollewing In-
acrs'ytwn: ‘L‘an 6 ale la république, le 13 mesaidon. Une armée franﬁise
commandée pan Bumper-ta em. deuuex‘idue 1‘1 Alexandria. L‘armée aymt
min Saljonrs apzés 1w mmmelouka an fuite an: Pyramids; Bani: 001m
mandala: la 111-5111113215 divider: lee a. goursuivies an deli: des 119121921 031
il est arrive 16 18 ventase (19 Paul (11.: March 3,1799) Then follow
the names of the brigmliew-generalu. The staircase leading to the top
of this '56:: Tower begins in the small ehamber (P145), in the S. E. earner
of the perislyle court It amends gradually, rouuxi a square newel. Sew
era] unadorneri chambers, yruhahly liked for the storing of astronomical
instruments and for the use of astrologers, are to be found within the
lawer. They are feebly lighted by window-openings, decreasing in size
inwards the eutside wall. M The West Tower can only be reached. fram

the E. tower. The dresses on the stones of the roof formerly held braces
of wood or iron.

Two Obeliaks and twe Lions, all of granite, formerly stood be—
fore the entrance. The feet of the W. obelisk is all that remains of
the former; the latter lie much damaged 911 the ground. Numerous
Greek Inscription: have heen carved haw lay pilgrims, wAlijoiniug
the 8.13. side of the pylen is the beautiful Gateway (Pl. G) of Pm-
lamy II. Philadelyhus, who appears on its E. side. On its W.
wall, to the right and left, is the emperor Tiberius, above, Phile-
delphus.

d. The Inner Periasyle (Pl. 1) buundeé (m the S. by Pylon H,
is boundea on the N. by another Pylon I'Pl. K). These, however,
an: by no means parallel to each other, while the ediﬁces to the
E. and W. of the 991125:er are so entirely different, than it is at
once ayprmmt that the court was not constructed weanling to any
preconceived plan. The requirements of the moment and the avail-

his space were taken into account, not any artistic consume-
tions. Nevertheless this court, entirely enclosed by buildings 03‘
the most varied forms1 must be descn‘bed as unusumlly elloctive.
011 the E. and W. are two oblong ediﬁces, each with columns 011
the side next the court. That to the W. (left) is a. distinct temple,
forming a kind of peripteros; that to the E. was used by the
whats. mm court, which is mostly uneven, contains one gym: ex-
cellently 311111191111 for the glitching of 1; Gem. Cook‘s parties usually
lunch here; if thaze are more than one party at the same time, the
second lunches in the kiosque (Pl. R)

e. The Temyle to .he W. a! ‘he Peristyle (Pl. L) stands {mu
Immediately behind the 209 {W. } wing cf the ﬁrst “£911,811 and a (loop
way in the lauer (p 287) Has exactly opposite the S. Entrance
Door (P1. <1) of the temple from which it is separated only by a
narraw (rpm passage. At. the N. and of the coloxmade 9n the side
of the temple next the court is a side-entrance. The S. dear ad—
mits to a P.- omws with 4 columns. of will h two are engageﬁ in
3,119 portal. Beyund lies a Cello, with three chambers, surrounded
9n three sides? by a colonnade. This temple was ('9 PW“
Page-361
gr 1455. PHILAE. 29. Route. 289

lemy VII. Philgmemr, and most of its Meantime were due ta New
law}! IX. Eucrgetas 11., though the later Lagidaa and Tiberius also
watﬁhmeﬂi a. share.

The vesci‘bule here is lamest than ﬁlm uiher moms (if the uella. The
enhance WM wowed by Philomeﬁm, but the numerous interim reliefs
represent Tilnzr‘ms Mien-a the different deities of the tem la. The carefully
elaboraled lion-way at ihe 33:1ch of the IlrlHlaOﬂ daies ram Energezea II.
The ﬁrst room is quite nun-domed. Above the door to the necond room
is a windcm bordered on each side by two liaihormeskn. Tiberius is
named severed times on the Wlﬂia. which have been partly piaetered over
with mud. The early Christians, who perhaps used the second mom for
purposes commie“! will: ﬁheir services, have entirely plastered over like
heathen Inscriptions mere; while the highly interesting Repruenmu‘ma in
the third room have Ewen left quite untouched. From these we learn that
{he temple was $11901;de ta represent the Birthxﬁeuw m- Mtshzm, in
whieh ﬁlm i m llama ﬁns new the light (aimilet buildings at Denderah,
Eefu 2th pp. {it}, 253). The reliefs an the rear wall are in mu Hucéians,
The ower aerien man-enema the DMD of Harm, who is inimdueh me
life by Amman, T119511, and athur game. In the upper row we 5% Hun-us
“(sanding ﬁrm: n. huge bunch of lotumﬂowera. and beams him the 9511mm
uuiiing mun-d a. comma miernecl with lotus-ﬁnwum. beneath whiz}: knael
two fume. Ana-verge! with 313:»: Uneuwhood. ' in; alleged-Mal meaning of
this latter minimal. at: is obscure (in the 'W. Wail uf the Wafﬂe: is
a Goddcu {ham} destmyml), offering the breast to the) newdwm child, and
close by is Walker. the good fairy of Egyptian nuraeries. placing her
left hand. in bemdiictien on the head of Home, and holding his arm
with he: right. King Ptolemy 1X. Emrgaiea 1!. in depicted handing
to her- iwg metal-mirrors ‘20 rejoice the golden one with the sight of her
beautiful form‘. —- These representations do not only celebrate the mystic
bitch afﬁne god, they refer also to she most beautiful and wont reaponsible
duties of momexhngm which Isis, Rather, and Nephthys undertake. Their
nursling‘ appears indeed an be the infan: Horns, but it is. evident from
man}; mlnaiom, mac the young Pharaoh, the heir to the throne of Ra,
was cansiziermi an inn incarnation in human form of :he young gm}, and
that these repreaemmi-ans w ' meant in convey in the Ptolemiea that. a. do“?
bad borne Mid suckleé £11» or their ﬁrst-born, and thui the immortals
had gamed. their phringiug met: invisible bands. Clenpatra 1,, the mother
of the two Mot-“news who caused the placing of this inacrlptien, hail me
as guardian and regene awash“? during aha childhood. of Philometer, the
elder. She ’WM i3": Min 0f me yoiing Horus. 022 the E. (mtsidu wall I)?
the calla a relies! shows us Home lemming from the goddess of the N.
to play 02: aka 'uiaa—slrigmecl 1110:, while lsis auperiuiuudx illclexsw. The
shape 0f “18 imirumcni is Greek, and by the gedriezm (if the north is

whips meant Ihlienie musiu, which was cultivated even by the earlier
up as. '

All the .I'mcripﬂﬂna hem date from Tiberius. wkw is namud ‘Autakraw:
Kiﬂms' on the E. siée and "l‘iherius' on the W. side. A double votivev
inscription 0f the same data proves that the former phrase apyliea to
Tiberius. ' v

The columns of the Gulmmdes on the W. and N. sides of the
calla exhibit genuine Heisman cayitals With a very high abacus.
(In: the N. ewe CPI. P, in the peculiar but elegant swim. found
only on Philaa. mandating; of a bunch oz“ pawns-buds. supporting
(he shame on their tiys. ﬁereenwwziis} more than half 3.3 high as
the shafhey‘conneat the catumzas. The most cempiwwe columns are
the seven on the aim} m“ the temple next the mum These have
Emly’smipmreﬂ Pmlmmaic capitais, surmounted by a cubism aba—

cus with Haﬁmrmmmkimﬁ thapelrs. The Architmve agave adorned
Balmxxz‘u Upper Egygi. Z "
Page-362
e90 Rosie 29. PHleE. rempae

will: ﬁle mneave mimics: and astragel, exhibit: an unusually Elna
inesrlyeﬁon, carved in the grand style, 0f which a duplicate 094mm
on she architrave of the E. colonnede oyyosite. This Dedication-
Inscription records that Ptolemy IX, Energeies 11. Physkme {with
numerous titles] anti his wife Clmyxﬁra, witness; and mistress «:6
both worlds, she Energaem («Rhine luanefazictme)i lovani the life—
giving Isis, the mistress ofAbaton, the queen of “the island 01‘ Philﬁ

a A and the mistress of the S. lands. The king
<7 Q) Q

anal the queen,1’hiladelyhi £1 i=1 (divine brothers), Energetz
13 :1 £37.1’hllepeteree, Epiphenes, Euyabozes, and l’l’xilemetmess

erected and restoretl this beautiﬁll monument, ﬂxat it might be a
feetel hall for his (the king’s) mother Usertv—Hethor, em, and a

. :53
emails of Joyful «anemone? @ %% 1W3, for the mistress at

Phlls, that she might settle in it, etc. The above list of Ptolemalis
surnames is especially important.

As. the 101: of the left colonnaée, next clue ﬁrst pylon, are eome
demonic and hieroglyphic Deuces, of the Qist year of Pmlemy Epim
phanes, one relating to the celebration of the suppression of a revolt
and Che punishment of the rebels? the other in honour of Cleopatra,
wife of Epiphanes, These inscriptions, cf great scientiﬁc wine
though extremely lightly and almost illegibly cawea, were discevared
by Lepsius in £843. Unfortunately they have been much injured
by ﬁgures carved over them under Neon Dionysus. An upper story
01‘ Nile bricks, new in ruins, was balk at some later period an the
roof of this peripteral temple. 1*. is entirely out of place and
should be remcved.

f. The Building on the E. aisle of the Periityle (Pl. M)? men-
tioned. on p. 288, lieu oppesite the birth—Imam;1 and presents a long
Colonnade of 113 columns , with elaborate capitals, towards the
court. In the rearswall of this wlsnuaée is ﬁrst, to the left, a
large doorway, leading through & vestibule $0 the autslde of the
temple, and than three lesser doors leading into three small cham—
ber», partly devoted to scientiﬁc purposes‘ A: the S. and, close is
the pylon, is a ﬁfth linerS admitting m s. roam new hall in miner
To the left of this roam is auoﬂuer chemher {PL 1 ; see below), and
straight on is the Slam-case (P1. m) leading to the meme on the
upper story. Some 03‘ the latter are tolerably spacious, but have no
inscriptions; whereas the lower story and the columns were adorned
wiih hiaroglyp‘hice by Ptolemy XIII. Neon Dionysus. The hum-£39»
time in m various rooms are due to Tiberius, to whom Phlla in
general is much indebma.

The most interesting rooms on the E. eltle ef the paﬁsﬁyle court
are ﬁrst that mm which the door nearest the pylon and leeding m
Page-363
of 1:53. PHILAE. 29, Route. 292

the staircase admits us, end eeeandly that to ﬁne right of the large
ﬂoomy. Both are without windows. Inscriptions on the deep
poem inform us of the purpose of these rooms. The ﬁrst (PL 1] was
the Laboratory, in which was prepared the excellent incense knew“
as Kyphi, which must have been useﬂ in great quantities for 1115
service: of the gods. The names and. the proportionate quantities
(in ﬁgures) of the drugs used in its preparation are recorded on the
door-posts. The interior has no inscriptions. The other (amazed
by the fourth door from the pylon) is, on she other had, very rich
in inscriptions. This smsi} room, extremely elegantly adamed
with sculptures by the orders of Tiberius {here named ‘Auiokrstor
Kisres’), was me “Mary (Pl. 1:); :13} on the right deal-«post is the

6:le i 5
(skin, goddess of history, the room for preserving the writings of the

life-bestowing 1318’.

The: representation! ever the door muss have been specially objection-
able in the Chrissie“, for they have: all been carefully ehiaolled out, On
the left sine 0f the chamber iiself is n. remiss like a wali~cnpboard. in
which parks. a the 111051 precious r0115 were pseserveﬂ. Beneath is a life-
like miiei o :- cynowpimua (the sacred animai of Thom-Hermes) wriiiug
a papyrus—semil: Hare as usual the Pharaoh (Tiberius) is :iapicﬁad receiving
the blessings of life in symbols from the deities u on whom he had be-
stowed gifts; on the right well he appears before sis and Home, up the
backuwan before his Between the emperor and the goddess in the letter
scene stands sn sitar, beneath which are twp swine, is ihe sacriﬁcial
auimais. On the left wﬂl, over the above»menlioned recess, are the snared
ibis of Thorn, is»? the goddess of truth with tha' palm)»: and the chisel in
her band, 'I’eﬂmtw and sfekh; on the (Knox-«wail is Khunau, here nsmlyi
the ‘uacred ibis of Phils‘ Ana time placed entirely on an equality with
Thom. On the right wall, ogposite, is the cew~headad Rest, momm- 0f the
gods, with two vessels with endles, before Osiris, Isis, and Horus.

The next door :0 the left, higher than the Where, iesds into noon:
(Pl. 3), named ‘C‘hambre dc Tibase’ by Champellion, because Ti-
berius is represented sacriﬁcing to the gods on both the side—walls

and over the ticor, on the oncsiée, while in me second raw on the right
<§>~ $ ’\
he appears again before me Nubian god q 9 (i) 'Arhesnefer.

legend: This is the library-ream of the gracious Sa-

Ahc-ve are dedicamzy inscriptions by Euergetas II. and Cleopatra
his wife, who appear on the door entering from ibe colounade.

Returning once more to the eclennade, we ﬁnd another doc: at
its N. end (PL :1). Bare, an inscription informs us, stood the
dam-"keepers entrusted. with the puriﬁcation of those entering the
19111916. The iions on the outside wall were also namerl in an in-
scription ‘tempia-gumrds’i though symhniicaliy only“ w Outside the
temple M, , in the dire on of Bigeh, s Nilomgicr was discovereri by
Capt, Handmsk in 1886.

g. The Second Pylon (Pi. is), standing at an obtuse sngie with
the E. coionnade, encloses the peristyie court on ﬁne N. It is
smaiie: (£0511; wide, 401i. high) and. in peers! pimp 1‘0 than

' ‘ 4&9) '
Page-364
292 30:41:29. P3311413. Tame

the ﬁrst pylon Au lune: staircase Mounds to the W. pylon, whence
we mowed new” the ruined roof in tlm E. pylon. ’Ic wash the
lap of the W. pylon, we ascend the staircase to the Osirlawrwms
(p. 295}, and than guessed leaving these on the right. The ”cent
of the ﬁrst pylon (p. 288) is, however, preferable in every Respect.
0n tbs from of tbs E wing facing the peristyls cam is a semi-
circular Std: cf reddish brown granite, «rented to communicate a
lavish grant of lands, by which E’selemy VII. Plummets: (94 13.0.)
amichad the temple. it was inscribed an the polished mar—wall of
a monolithic shawl built into the pylon. The king, however, seem:
manly in have gramaxl to the yrlesu a my lease of the student
prop-BYE)! of use goduiwa. 0n the pylon are some Colossal Figural
To the right is lag N603 Dionysus holding his enemies by ﬂu: MirS
bafoxa Horsiisi and Esther; beneath, smaller representations. To
the left the king ayysars before Osiris and Isis. The grooves for
tlw ﬂagsstaﬂ’s should also be netari. The Portal [PL 5)] to the temple
proper, apgroashed by a. shallow ﬂight of 593325, was built. by Bust»
gates II. in imitation of the portal of Nectmebus in the ﬁrst pylon.
Within it the predecessors of the builder are recounted.

The Temple of Isis proper, amend by this germ, was built
according w 8J1 indepmdant plan, embracing s. hyyorstyla, a. pram
naos with various divisions, and a sanctuary, with two slziemrooma.

Ptolemy II. Philadelplms was the founder of this temple, to wlmse
decoratitm ﬁlm hoatilu hru‘mars Plxilnmcxtar and Energetes ll" (Phylum)
eontrlhuted most largely It was only natural that ball: the well: “but
amiable Phllomesor and the vicious but energetic Physkcn shnuld interest
thumaulves in the sanctuary r) Isis, fur ham warc much intenslcd in
retaining Nubia. We are aw e that the former malmalned a military
station to the S. of Philm, which afterwards grew Into the lawn of
Parambole (pl-305% Later Finlemies are also named hem. Wu refrain
from a close: axamixmﬁon of the relief: and inscriptions in till; temple,
though they are no! uninteressing from: myﬂmlogial point of View. sour
muting ourselves will: a. refemnce to it“: detailed descriptions of Eh:
Ptolemsic temples at Benders}; (p. 80) and Ram (p. 244).

h. The Hypostyle (Pl. N) ccntalns ten columns arranged in
three rows. The second and third rows centsin saw two columns
to the right and two to the left; while tha ﬁrst row has only the two
comer-columns, the space between them: being left uncovered for
the saka of liglﬁ. The hall thus cansists properly speaking of two
paﬁions: an unmvered fora-court with two «loan, on ﬁlm right am}
left, leading to the outsiaa of“ ﬁlm tample, and a cavaraﬁ yam belaimii
The columns are 241/2 ft. high and 13314 ft. in circumference. The
uncovamd pertion could be shaded lien: the sun by means of 3
velan‘um; the holes for the corrls any will visible in the uyyer part
of the: concave cornice turned mwarés the secoml pylon‘ Tim colour~
lug 9f this hall? which has been preserverl on the ceiling and (he
eolumns, must have bum very brilliant. The Capital: are the most
instzuctlve A)! all elm speclmém that: have some down as us cf the
mmns: in which the Egyptlma colonmi weir mumﬁﬁ,
Page-365
of 1m. PRIME. 29. Route“. 293

Sky-blue, light-green; and a light and a dark sharia of red at. the
{manning colours; but these were distrlbuleé according to conventionﬂ
rulee Although vegetable forms are. lmlwted wish admirable: ﬁdellty‘
lhe artists did not shrink (mm comm-lag them whiz complete disregard
to nature, aimpl" because anéiem convention demsnded 1:. Light-green
palm-twigs "waive blue ribs, and blue. ﬂowers lune blue, Rd, or yallow
petals, Balnw the annuli on the ahaﬂ. is a. kind uf band (found also eige-
where), indicating that the vegetable forms surrounding the core of the
capitz-J were supposed so be ﬁrmly bound to the top of the shaft. The
height and ornamenmlian of the lower pulp of the shafts are the same in
all the calumns; but. the capitals, some of which are baautiful palm-
eaplaals, are 'vax‘ie .

0n the Ceiling are astronomical representations. The entire hall
bears the lnseriptlons of Ptolemy IX. Euetgete: EL—Above the
door in the back wall leading to the promos is a long Inscription,
carved over the hieroglyyhics lay the Italian. Expedition 01‘1841.
The Chrlstian successnrs of the Irriesle of Isis have cutnmnermxs
Coptic crosses in the walls to signalize their appropriation of the
temple aml to guard against the cunning malice of ﬁhe heathen
deities. Christian sen’ices were celebrated in is hall. A Greek
inscription in {he doorway to the promos, on the right, records
that line good work (probably the plastering u? of the reliefs and
the preparation of the hell for Christian worship) took place Emile!
the abbot Theodoms. This was in the reign of Justinian

i. The chamber: of the Fronmac The three successive rooms
of the pramms data from Ptolemy 11, Philadelphia: The First
Boom (Pl. 1*) was adjoined on eech sills by ethers. That on the
right‘v new rlestroyed, was connected with a. Second Romr. (Pl. 2),
on the E. wall of which Phllaxlelphus ls shew“ presenting arise“
eﬁerlng to his mother lsis. In the mom to the left (Pl. 5), E! «which
the staircase to the roof starts, Philadelphus appears before Isis and
below Eathor. The mall room to the tel: is 33 (ink chamber. Right
round the foot of the wall in the following wide Third Room (Pl. 1:),
lmmerlialely before the sanctumy, runs a llss of names! The doors
0n the right and left of this room admit to long, narrow, dark
apartments, perhsps used. as Treasure—Chapman. The entrance to
that on the left (Pl. w) is about 2 f . from the grounnl. The visitor
shauld enter, strike a light, anti insyect the sculptures in this
chamber which resembles a huge stone chest, The lower pert of
the wall is smooth, as it was concealed by the treasures stored here;
but higher up Pwlamy Ii. Philedelghus caused the wells to be

adorned with elegant mum and inscriptions.
... (m the rearwnll is represented Ra embraced on the eymlml of gold

 

 

:
:
ODD
kneeling and holding in his arms the large chem} of gold, whie‘n he
preeeuwd lo the temple of leis; and the suns scene is ”peeled on me
W. wall, In an: former case the king wears the crawn (If Lower Egyps
I
, in she meal- that ol Hyper Egypﬁ .w—The lnscﬂptlans explain

l. the 5. end of the W. Wall Ptolemy Philadelphus appears

that the I’laamnh came to the goddess bringing to 3%?" gal henuehhml,
Page-366
299 Ram 29. PRIME. Wﬁte

and mat me images: at Phile granted Mm aupenbmadenee of everything,
an gifts of plants and fruit: the! she earth produces, anﬂ placed aha whale
Wald in contentmentwﬂimﬂar reprmcnistiuns (eﬂeringa of bag of goid
uni bright-calamari garments} oecur in the chamber to the right (Pl. e),
which is in communication wiih Room :. 4

In the AIEY'R‘UH (Pl. 0) is a email 0.14am formed of a single
stone, with the names of Energeies I. and Berenice II. (which also
new! in the mom on the left), But as the inscription: on the walla
attest, this, the oldest part of the inner temple, dame from the
time of Ptolemy II. Phiiadelyhus. in the rear—wail a! the calla is
a 0:?wa In the mom to eke light of the edymm is a. subteixaneen
ﬂoat, with Nile gods and the young prince; above, l’hiiedelphne
before Isis and. Earpocrates (Horpekhrud).

k. The Building to the W. of the 23quer (Pl. P) is reached
by quitting Qhe hypostyie by the ﬁrst door on the W., (to ontlex‘: as
we enter). it consists of a mined Calla and a chamber, in fairly
good preservation, facing the river. On the S. well. are eume
remarkable repmsentationa. Hams receives the waier of Rife from
Isis and Naphﬁiys. The gocidess 0f history
behind Isis, and Thath behind. Nephthys
write the name of the toyed builder on a
yaimwbmneh, at the and of which ways!)
the Sign of festivals, comyesed of the
hiemgiyphs of life, endurance, and. power.

Ma holds in her hem! the sail $5, the

symbol of new life. Here also is an 1353,
whe has been converted mm a St. Mary.
— The handeome Portal (Pl. 1), built; by
Hadrian, beus on its: right and. left, the
secret symboie 0f 05mm Over the door,
to the left, is a email segmentation cf the
Island of Psz. On one side types? the
cliffs of Bigeh, on the other the pylons of
Philae. In e square between these is a
highly remukubie miief. At the bottom
is a. Cracodile bearing on £25 back the mum~
mg of Osiris, i‘mm which ﬂowers spring
(comp. the iegend of Am: el—Wogtici,
source of the Nara. p. ‘281; Above apyeers the risen Osiris,
emhronati with the young chtimi, in

a. disc befere which stands Isis. Above the whole the sun appears on
the left am} the mom: to the right, with stars between them; adje—
ceni me e Barge and we lmeiier pylonsi On the N. wall, close to
the mom tying newest the riven is the famous; ReprcacMMSM o the
80157:” 01‘ the Niie, already mentioned in Vol. 1., p. 1%. Rigel) Se—
eem), one of the cemrectiislands, is hen depieted, with a cure in
Its lowest pm. In this (wrenches the Nile, guarded by a serpent, and
Page-367
of Ida; mama. 29. Route. 295

pouring water from ﬁve vassg. 011 £113 summit of the rocky source
of die waters are a vulture (Math) and a hawk (Home), gazing ﬁrm;
the distance and haeping wamh. This is almost the only lanhseape
hitharbo discovered on my Egyptisn monument. The inscxipﬁen
is in these words: “she vary xamote and very sacred, who rises in
Bigah (Senem)’. -

On the £24m: of 1M: link: temple, to tho Bait, is a Demon's (“crimson
in red letters. in which Antenna Anﬁoninua Pine and Lucius Verna are
mentioned with their titles derived from um uered provinces. The
Gwenuclla (if these III-ha empemm ouch: alga on a walk uf l3»: trampling

had on the nutslaia of the W. wall are numerous inscriptions, chieﬂy
demotic.

1. The great Oatiida Willi of the Templa axe omarad with
Imeﬂptim; to the left (W.) by Tiberius, to the right {13be
Antenna: Kisres (perhaps Augustus or even Tiberius again). The
most. namwonhy is a List of Names, of great importance for the
geography 9f the ancient Egyptians (Val. 1., p. 51). 0x: the W. waii
are the names of Lower Egypt, on the E. wall, near the foot, those
Of Upper Egypt. Other lists are found within the temple.

m. The ”Osiris Bambi, remakably intareating on account of
the sculptures which cmmr its walls, is found as follows. Returning
19 the sacomi room (Pl. f.) of the pronaos we pass though the doe:
on its W. side {next the Nile), and immediately to the right see
a Portal (still in the temple), landing to a Staircase which we us»
send. A second staircase then leads to the r905 of the calla. Here
we turn towards the S. and finally descend some stone steps to a
doorway built over with Elle bricks. The Yeﬂibule is interesting.
Hapi (ﬁlm Mia) lets milk trickles from his breast anti Horus pours

W W W
the water of life, wﬁOmviO ~40 . over Osiris, who lies in the
W W

shape of a [humility upon a bier. Twentymeight locuswplants spa-om

from him, referring perhaps to the % days of the monthwag the
‘28 3115 (if the maximum height of ths Nile at Elephantﬁm, m to

the 14 scattered and reunited parts of his body.

The ‘spwuting‘ of 33:3 dead into new lifa is a conception {raquently
msﬂe 1156 of, even with regard to the @5515; away of mankind. In the
Book at ibis Dena are the passages ‘1 ﬁve mompnshed {he gram. path
(in the: haul of the sun). my ﬂesh sprouﬁs’, ‘He has Immune a god Eurevm‘.
Mic: his ﬂesh acquired quihkguiug Rower in ihe unﬂeyworid’.

As the resurrection of Osiria a! she npirits are prcaant who play a
part in tho Egyptian cheering of immortality. They hsra appear :ln Ion
rows on the walls of the sacred chamber. The risen Osiris is adorns
wim ail the insignli of his dignity as a ruier of She underworlﬁ.

On the left door-pmi of ﬁlm Osiris rnnxn an: three Greek Inga-(puma.
of which sh; lenses: date! from the 135m yea: of Diocletian £59 1.3).)
and. anosher {very more) from the 169m year 0! Diocletian { All}.
From thasa ii is (widen: that She agan worship of Isis and Osiris was
pracﬁsed here down to a late pe‘rio . The votive inscyi :ions were com-
posed by the mom-Holmes Smetkhen and his hroehcr met.

A. few smalls: edmees still remain m be visited. To the N. are
the mine of a Chriezian Church, into which have been built. ing—

meme iii an eulie: structure of Tibexius. “me his is, i rhea
Page-368
"*5.

296 Rome 29. Pm. Temple

Nags, dating from Etalsmy and Cieepatra.m1! we quit the hypo»
style of the ample of Isis preps: by the small penal in m E. wall
between the first row of columns and the ascend pylau, we see
about 50 paces in ﬁmnt of us the Ghapel of Esther (Pl. Q), the
smmllest temple on the island. Tint is was especially dedicated m
Haihor 11m learn from hieroglyphic. insvrimions

CAMEi-Ziiiiéé):

(if the Sims: of the rampart): Augustus, and from the Greek inscrip-
tion DEPTIA EﬁOlHCEN - TH —— AwPQﬁElTH, ‘Hiertia directed
(a prayer) to Aphrodite (Huhorjﬂﬁ The fact that the rear wall of
this chayel has no inscriptions and the ruins bebiné it indicates
that it was once Joinezl to some larger eéiﬂce. A: the entrmce
stand two Ptolemnic cslumns, wiﬂx a doorway between them, the
aids-vixen: of which, unconneceed with each otha: at the up, reach
to the bands below the capitals. This doorway is built up, and it
is probable that the single apartment within tisa temple was used

as a. tiweiling7 as its with am much blackened.

Within 333m;- Ptolemy V11. Philomctor and Eusrgnica Ll. with ﬁlm-
airar, and also over the entrance. 0n the 8. side is the emperor before
who: and Horsamiaui, and before Klu’mm and Embark on the N. side

before Osiris and Xais. Beneath was a geographical inacxiptinu.

 

 

 

The Kioaque.

A few minutes bring us from the chapel of Hathor to the elegant
and airy Pavitian (91.3)» frequently called ‘l’hamoh’a Bed”, one
oi the chief decomiicns ofthe islam'i, which may bemasily magnum
by the 19m abaci, 0r tamer imyosts, that support this arabitrave.
Passengers are usually iandeﬁ. immeéiately below it. It is situated.
on the E. coast of Phila, which is hére bounﬂed by a carefully
built. wall. The builder of this beautiful temple, dedicated likewise
to Isis? was New; 'Zl‘xajanua; but; its ornamentation with sculgmraa
and inscriptions was new: quim oomphted. The inscription; con—
tain little of importance, so that the visitor may resign himself at
01:06 to me pleasure of rest and luncheon on this beautiful syot.
The Kiosque of Philw has bash depicteii a thonsmml timas, and the
slender and graceful form, that greets the eyes of the travellers: a;
they approach the island, well deserves the honour. The architect
who designed it was no strange: to Greek ail, and. this yavilion,
standing ammig ﬁlm put-sly Egyptian. temples around it, pmdncw
the effect of a. line' of Home: among hiemglylﬁim maximums, or at
a naturally growing tree among srtiﬂcialiy ,trinimed hedges. We
hex-a yerceive that n. beauttﬁil fundamental idea has power to distant
the attention from deﬁciencies in the details by which it is carried

+ Alter amino” ihe worﬂ w’yr'v it! probably (0 ba inﬂict “
Page-369
of Isis. 31mm, 29. Ram. 297

am). Although excepﬂen may be taken in the height of ihe abacl
ind m many other poims, no one who has visited Phiias will forgat

this little temple, least. of all if he have seen it. by meonlignt.

In the TRUE of ﬁle inland are ﬁlm ruins of {L viliage. and nx‘ buildings
of various kinds. In the extreme N12. is a Roman TrimnphaiArch {PL 5),
with a lofty middle portal flanked by luwez‘ wings. The structure, which
ha: also been taken for a city-gate, faces the 151., 12:. Elm wen-{artilird
bank of the Nile. The S. wing is in good weservation but is somewhat
clumsy. Above ii is a brick (ionic axxpporied 0n aandsiuue mmsoiea. It
is pnssible. that “incielian passed beneaih ”1:: central arch when he
visited the sacreé island. of Philae. His nuns, a: all events, is :0 be
found an m6 blocks of sandstone scallsrml on the gruund+.

The huge heaps of rains scammed aver the island defy description,
and contain ﬁzzle ef interest. On the other hand study may well be
devoted in $119. numerous Imar-‘yiixma in demonic, Greek, Latin1 Cuyllc.
and Arabic. Some of the Greek. inscriptions are alwwnt The Venn-s
of Camus surname‘i Kicanm, son of Mammy, who 15 .d T 15.0., are cx<
salient; and 1125 sci-ounce diaplny onnsiderabie skill.

ﬁle (2&3.th Isianés.

The islands in the neighbourhood of Philaz are picturesque, but
a visit to them can be recommended only m Egyptologigts ami gas.»
logiats, f0: they contain no‘ ing but rocks with a few inscriptions
carved upon thaw.

 

 

. a
Bxgeh, called by the ancient Egyptians MW“ Swain-ti lying
opposite Philtre, is ihe most easily accessible. It is reachea in about

two minntas from Phillie, of which it commands a picturesque view,
as Philae does of “with its ham rocks and ruineﬁ buildings. Riga];
enjcyed a. very early reputation for yeuuliar sanctity. and we have
already seen (p. 294) that one of the symbolicsl sources of the Nile
was ion-aim: here. Various Bock Inscriptions and also the hiero—
glyyhics on a granite Statue of Osiris foumi here recnxd that as
early as the 18th 13an under Anmnhoinp II. and Amenhotep UL,
this island was visited by pilgrims and was provided with temples.
The deities chiefly worshipped in the latter were the ram’s-headed
Khnum, god cftlm cataracts, and a Bathur. Senem was not regarded
as belonging to Egypt but to Kuah, ate. Ethiopia, or Turkens, with
which the modern Xmas may be compared. Among she pilgrims,
whose names are found. on Bigeh, were seveml geyernoxs of Ethi—
opia, whiz wen usually royal princes. Tha ruins of the Temple
visible from Philm, in which the name of Pﬁolemy Nuns Dionysus
is of most frequent occurmnco, are now inhabiteri by an ohh‘y‘ng
Nubian family, only a few of Whose members understand anything
but Kcnﬂs. The most interesting remains here are Two Columns,
with unscu'lptumd Ptolemaﬁc capitals and a Parlal with a carefully
built arch, adornaé mm a. Greek ornamem. Adjoining the lute: is
a House built of bricks, Nile-mud, and broken stones, in which is

f The fﬁllcwing words have been decipherea:

AEOKAHTaANONEPAONKwNzTANT
Page-370
293 m 29. Kowosso.

'8: stab with ﬁgures of Harm ”Mi Isis, Khnum uni Sextet; Behind
the temple is :3. walk axecnmni (3)::st of Amenhozay II. (18th {Pym},
‘the beloved of the mistress of Serum: [Bigah)’, exuding 11110:: the
nine ”news, Le. the barbarous tribes. Kha—em—ns, the favourite son
of Ramses 11., visited this island and reccrded the festivals of his
father. Dignﬂlud ofﬁcials of 1313 26th Dyn. celebrated themselves
and their princes {Psammetikh 11., Hoyhra, Auhmes) in brief in—
scriptious cut in she hurl stone. A: a later date Phiia superseéed
the mcky Bigeh as s piigrim-xesom

W W-
The island ofKonoiio (calied by the ancients Aim

'wvw‘ ‘3 9
Kebu wt), whose name scams to be con Lecced with Km}: and Xmas,
also contains numerous Rock Imeripiécm, some dating as fax: back
as the ﬁlth and 12:11 Dynasties. Seven! long inscriptions of the
18th Dyn. bus been preserved. Que of 13 lines seie‘bmtea the
victory of Amenhotep 111., xeptesented. in the colossi of Memuon,
over this Kmilims at Ethiopians. Xﬁnosw was also visitaad by mi—
grims down to the 26th Dynasty.

The islami af 3:331, which eontaim many peculiar kinda of
stone, may be reached by the dhahabiyehs. Its rugged rocks abound
with inscriptions, mostly of the 18th and 19th Dyn., though the
earliest date from the 13m, whﬂs a few were inscribed under the
20th and 215:. This island W35 apecidly dadicatad w the cataracts-
god Klmum and. to the goddesses Anuke and Sui.
Page-371
LOWER NUBIA
mm P113133 to "wean 1mm.

2” M. The veyzege from Philm to wade affalfmh was until 31mm km
years ago ewily meomplismd and formed an agreeable eouﬁmmﬁion of the
Nilewreuze. Travellere either canned their own dhehe “ 6315 m be towed
up the rapids (p. 2'73) or proceeded in Cook’s fortnightly scarlet-seamen
Circumstances were, however, completely shared by the we: in the Sﬂdﬁn
and by the giving up 0! the region above Wﬁdl Ealfah in 5188-5. After that
date the only means of ascending me Nile to Nubia was offered by the
weaklyjovmmem steamer which conveyed the mails and military mores,
and pe armed aha entire journey without stopping mfﬁeientlg long a“. my
intermediate pom to allow of a. visit to the monuments. In 1 '90, however,
Messrs. Cook and Son again alerted aweekly sen-lee (yf steamer» between
the ﬁrst and second cataract. These mew-wheelers“ (ﬂmneh, Alisha!)
are small (121% paeaengers) and not very soulful-tam especially when there
is a large party on board. The dining‘saloon i J the stem-paddle,
the eebme are canﬂned, and the cemmiaeeriat :1. Hells are made
at comparatively few points, ihnugh ii in p088i516 lo luczseae mass: by
arrangement with the engineer, if the passengers are unarmlrmaue~ Eagxﬁyeh
or gene d‘mmna accompany the steamer to prince: it, The vuyega lasts
for 7 days, (Ac. P’hilte is usually reached again all she afternoon of
the 7th day The ineluaive fare {a 30%., or 211. fer meme whn have sex
ended the Nile to Aasui‘m M Cook‘s tourism.

1:: Day; (Monday). Scan u 10 am Via Bebe-L germssi, SIX-3 Bab-
el~$alnbslneh m Kalahuheh, Vim the two temple» ﬂmro.

1nd Day. Vi}, Demiﬁr and Geri Eugen (Kirah) ta Dalskeb, where the
temple is visited; thence to Sabil‘m (temple),

.‘ird Bay. Ta {Inmate end'Amﬁdah. where the temple is inspected. If
time permit, elm the 242m 10 of Dena lbrlm.

AM Day. Toehkahi A u-Slm‘bul- Wildi ﬁalfnh.

61!: Day. Exemﬂion by land ﬁn Ainleir on the 2nd cataract. The atenmer
starts at noon im- am return to Abu-Simbal, where the temple in visited.

6M Day. Start at 10 mm. from Mm-Simbel for Kerusko, arriving in
time to ascend. the hill Awu el-Guarﬁnt.

7th Bey. Remus to ﬁmebeheh. — 8th Day {Monday}. Plaza: is reached
early in the warning and amemgeu and luggage are zeezaeferred in the
touriﬂetemer leaving Aamﬂn on Tues. mornieg.

When the helm are multiplied 31. the request 01‘ the gummmuerzc, a dif-
ferent aletribulion of time may he adopted; 2.9. fist flay: Feb-ﬁt, Katmai,
Tam)», and galababw; ﬁnd any: Dakkeh (A hrs. 3mm, Oiedﬂnnﬁv snﬂ K A
make; 3111 (Ix-:1: ‘Amgaleh and Abn-Siznbel; 5th day: will}; $1133.11” 5;}: :
Viait 10 the eemnd “target; return in ihe eftsmoen lib-m5 e1;
5th day: Remake (11': me half.) and Sellﬁ’uh, where eke as le 2e exalted;
7th day: After short 2mm e8 Dan-div and galabehe‘a; reach him M s“; 9121.

It. is go he hoped that the region of the Upper Nile will soon be safe
enough to panel: the voyage to be made by dhehehiyem once more. The
writer Meumgliuhad such a voyage in 1870, vieiﬁing all the. important
monuments both going anti gaming. The cost, including the towing of
the dhahabiyeh up me ﬁrst ashram, may be reckoned 33 about 1701, for
3 Early of INSa which widetl $0 the cost of the Journey ('2 memes) 60 Au»
an n 3201. gives a lolal (NEW. for the E monthsjemmey; fore pets, TOOL,
{or 8 em. 8301;, for 10 panel 10001. (comp. the lnetoﬂuctien, ‘9‘ xix) Some
dhehngiyeiu are not adapted to ascend beyond the ﬁrm eeleraei- valleys
Page-372
300 LOWER NUBIA. History,

therefore who desire to proceed '10 the second cataract should aéipulate in
their contract. (1:. xxii), for a heat able to perform the entire voyage.

Rubin extends from the ﬁrst cataract to Khargﬁm, is. to N. lit.
16", and is diviéicd into Lower Nubia, betwecn tbs ﬁrst two enta-
ructs, and Upper Nubia, above the second cataract. Ummr Nubia,
which with the Sﬁdﬁn and Dirfﬁr was formaﬂy subject to Egyyt,
is at present independent, and is not accassible for taurists. Lowe:
Nubia belongs to the mudiriyeh of 3-inch, from which it is governed,
so far as it. is not under military {Br-inch) rule. It czeeuds to
abmuf, N. Kat. 22°.

The cultivable strip, even in Laws: Nubia, is selﬁam mare than
a. few hundred yards wida, while it is genarauy much namwer, so
that the dcsert approaches close up to the banks of thc Nile. As a
natural consequence ﬁre ycpulatiun is scanty; it is cstimated to be
not mere than 40,000 between the ﬁrst and second catarccm. The;
Nile ﬂows for the ﬁrst half of the distance between the cataracts
from S‘ to 51., for the second half from 8.314 toN.W., anﬁ. in Upper
Nubia. from N, to S. The Mommuenis of Lower Nubia are nearly 1511
on thaw. bank, where they were less exposed 10 hosme Wank; The
most interestingis the temple ofAbu-Sz‘mbel, the last station before
Wadi ﬁaltah. The monuments in Upyar Nubia are rarer but not less
remarkable, as my. those at Gchel Bar-kc}.

Hislery. The ﬁrst cataract forms the natural boundary of Egypt.
But in early times, when the Egyptian monarchy was at. its zenith,
it extended its power much farther to the 5., at ﬁrst as far as T4:—

. . { O n
krsmpso. The ﬁrstnct of 12 AT A I(Grcck, Bodcicuschcimn),

assigned by the Egyptian rulers to the Isis cfl’hilm, strctchmi uyon
both banks as far as this point, as is amassed not only by Harmle-
tus (IX, 29) but also by inscriptions in the temyie of Erika. If Tar
1 r . \ a 53 . .

rcumpw {Egypt h mg] i , with many valuations} pa cur-

ﬂatly identiﬁed with Hierasykdmims (Holy Sycamore)g [which lay
mar tbs modem villagc of Maharska}: (p. 3211), the length of these
12 schoinci was, according 10 measurements by Prokcsch, equal to
36% hrs. journey or 500 M1,. giving about 132%; M. 12:3: 8.: or
Echoinoa. The inscriptions speak of me entire region above Ombcs,
including the Dodekasc‘noinos, as being in the ﬁrst- uoma of Upper

Egypt, which may name Em Ta {cinema}, ‘fmntiar land’or ‘bow-
land’, bccause this natives were armed with bows. To the S. at this

(33 .
lay Kw}; or Ouch Eli.” tbs was of the Bible. The mamas

{m 5L :5 :2: 2mm ncfcrand m k 2 F‘ﬁl‘a aches:

‘negro-lmd’, ciao occur. The kings of the 62h 139m. carried on
Page-373
History. LOWER NUBLL 301

war again“ the Beduins {emu heraéi), having as allies various
negro-tribes, from the lands 0! Arm, Man, Amam, Warner, and
Kean, as we 2mm frem me inacripaion of UM {new in the museum
at Gizeh). The Wanna eapeein‘rly are {>an mentioned in the in”
seriptions as having been fgught against ané subdued. by theEgyp—
tins. —- The powerful monarchs (If the 12m Dynr continued the
canquest of the S. Amen-rmha defeated the Wawu; and a. son of
Usercman L, as a stale now in Florence rewards, overthrew seven
negrmtﬁbes. Useneaen 111. advanced the boundary of Egypt to
Semneh; and we hear (If a campaign directeﬂ against Kush in the
19th year of “tie king. His successor Amenem'ha III. renamed at
Samuel: emi at Kummah, lying opposite, the height of the Nile,
which was then 25 ft. higher (p. 272) than at present. A Ring of

the 13th Dyn., (O Q g) Ra Ichu. mfen is mentioned: on m is.-

Iand of Argo. The kings of the 18th Dyn., hewe—ver, did most of
all be extané the Egyptian might in Uyyer Nubia. Amenhotep “I.
led a Prosperous expedition into the 13ml of ADM! and took many
prisoners. He built a. lane tamyie 3’s Napaia, near the fourth
cataract, am! adorned the temple of Tutmes 111. at- Soieb. Both
fhere and on a statue of ibis king in the Louvre are recorded the
names. of main}: conquer“ tribes of the S. rm Egyptian governors
of these provinces now received the title of princes of Kﬂih. The
victorious campaign 02‘ Ramses 11'. against the Ethiapians, and the
tribute paid by them in ebony; gold, and ivory, are not only de-
scribed by Hal-minus (H, 110), but in the temple of Abu»SimbeE
and in numemus tcmbs at Kama}: are depicted negroes as prisoners
and paying tribute. While Egypt was embroiled in internal dis~
cords, an independent priestly monérchy established itself at Na-
paid beside the holy mountain (Gebel 'Barkal), where Amman,
Mark:) and Khm‘nsu7 the ma of"habes, were worshimmd, N'mner—
nus buﬂdings were reared of which tracer remain to the present
day. We are unfortunateEy not yet able to decipher either the
peculiar hiercglyphice or the dramatic writing of the Kushites, faund
side by side wieh Egyytimx hieroglyphics on these monuments.
Some important scales brought by Mariette from Gabe! Barks! record
the vicﬁorious advance of the Ethiopian prince Piankhi inre Lower
Egypt, his defeat of several 20031 kings (Tafnekht, Nimrod, Osor-
iron3 am) probably 506 up by the Assyrians, and his capture of the
(My of Memphis: Simbako am} Taharku, {he stmcassars of Pimﬂdn'l3
repeaced his exploits, to the extent at lease of making themselves
masters of Upper Egypt. They founéed the 25th Dyn., and in that
way united the whole of Nubia. with Egyyt proper. Tahrrka, how~
ever, was ﬁefeated by the Assyrian kings Esarkaddcn and Assur»
banipul (Sardanapaius), though after his death his sister’s eon Ur-
dumam' (Hui—Amen) maintaineﬁ. himself for some time in Thebes
and even besieged Memyhis. An end was put. to she iwiependmxce
Page-374
302 LOWER NUBIA. meow.

of the petty Egyptian hinge by Paemmeﬁkh I. (6%610). In his
reign, according to the eomewhet incredible story efllsrodetue (II,
30), QAGJXX) eeldlers, illeeenhented with the severity of their genius,
emigrated to Ethiepla, where they sealed near Marni? under the
name of Automoles or Sembﬁtea, and did much to reﬁne the mm-
ners of the Ethiopians. Psammetlkh ll. undertook an expedition
agelnst the Ethiopians (Herod. I}, 160], to whlch references are
made in Greek anal Phoenician inscriptions in the temple at Aim»
Simbel (p. 834-). The melee at Berke! mention two other Ethiopian
kings, Her—sS—m‘ef anti Naezoamen, whose reigns eel-mat he were»
ratezy (head. The former reigned for forty yams, mned against the
Rem-em and Manila, Atrium tribe! (1! Dﬁrﬁir 23ml Abyssiniu, and
erected temples; of the lather we learn then he was solemnly erowxxetl
in the temple of Nepale.

The early royal residence Nepata new began to decay, emi
Berna (Mereé) near Begerewiyeh beeeme the capital of the Ethics»
plane. From Diode-ms (Ill, 6) we learn that under l’mlemy Phil»
delphus a king or’ the name of AYE-gamma shook himself free of the
inﬂuence of the priests and caused them to he massacred in the
semen temple This can hardly he the same Ergmenes whom we
meet at Dahhellqul 816), for the latter (lees not. seem 14) have
ﬂourished until the time of the Roman emperors. During the Rt»
man period, an Ethioplen invasion of the Thehe'id led be the cam—
palgn of Petrenlus (‘25 13.0.), in which N'apata was destroyed. Queen
Candace made peace with the Banner: general (Strebe XVII, 54).

Towards the close of the 5rd cent. Al). the sentry above Plums
was devastated by the Blemmyee, a ﬁerce Nubian tribe dwelling
beCweeh the Nile and the lied See, who carried their depredations
even into the Roman territory beyond Aswan, To restrain them
aha emperor Diocletian summoned the tribe (31‘ the Nohadea from
the ﬁnals af el—Khargeh (p. 348) to the Nile valley, UNI settled them
in the district {rem Elephahtine upwards, while the temples cf
Phile) were assigned as common sanctuaries to them am! to the
Blemmyce. In spite of the aid of the Nohaales, the ﬁve towns of
the Commliitium Romanem (Prime, Phwnicon, Khirls, Tephis,
and; Tnlmls) fell mm the hands or" the barbarians, who mule Talmis
(Kelabeheh, see p. 307) their capital, In the 4th and 51h «1.th
they ravaged the 'l‘heba'id, srx chat in 451‘Arl). Maximimu, the
general of the emperor Marciaﬁ, was forcetl he conclude a peace on
unfavourable terms for 100 years, which, however, only leeted until
the death of the general. Between 530 aml 550 the Nohadee were
converted to Christianity; and Silica, one of their kings, defeated
the Blemmyes. His victory is recenied in a Greek inscription
found In she temple of Knlabsheh (p. 308}. Christianity gradu—
ally invadexl ehe temples of Nuhia; and the Sahel} hing Himm-
mos ami Bishop Theodore“ C9. 2383) a! Phihe extermlmied pa-
geniem. But not long aﬁerwarcla Ethiopia, like Egypt, {all into
Page-375
Language LOWE}; mm. 303

tho binds 0f the Mohammedsna. ”Air-m ibn el-‘Ag conquered Nubia
in the year of the Hag-ire 20, Dongoiah was captured, and a. whim
of slaves imposed upon the Nubians. When Egypt becsme an in~
dependent Muhammedm kingdom under $115 Fsgimiw Muiizz in
969, the Nubian mcovexad their freedom. In the year of the Eegin
568 {1172 AD.) Saiedjn’e brother captured. the citadel 92‘ til-rim
and plundered the church. Similar disasters fellow-5d, and the
people only (swap-mi mmpuieoxy conversion ix) {slim by haavy sunri-
ﬁc-es, the loss of the provinces nearest to Aswﬁn, and the ysyment of
a poll—m. The Nubian kingdom new 51:11: up into various petty
states, smong which Saunas, foundeii in 1484 by the mam-tribe
of the li‘nngis, rose :0 importance an! held sway (war the nmv’lnees
of Shendﬁ, Barber, and Dongolsh. This! however, was of no long
duration. Bengals}: was frequently invaded by the robber tribe of
the Shégiyeh. —Iama‘il Pasha, son of Mobammd‘Aﬂ, made himself
master of All these provinces in 1821. its cronqnared Dongolah with—
on: opposiﬂmzss defeetm the Shégiyah M, Koni, and acquirer} Sannﬁr
also: This mnquest, however, Goat lsma‘ii his life. At a festival
given by him at Shencli, a hut in which he haﬁ been secured was set
on £36, and he and his companions perished in the ﬂames. But this
incident did not prevent the complete subjugatian of tha Sﬁdén,
which was converted inta an Egyntisn province, with the newly—
fnunded Khargﬂm as its capital. Dézfﬁx, too, was conquered and
annexed in 1814. But the war with Abyssinis (1875—76), a revolt
in Daring, the roman state of ﬁle Egyptian ﬁnances, the rebellion of
Arnhi Pasha, the victorious advance of the Mahdi, and 13:9 (193th
of the devoted General Gordon (Jan. 1885) had ta the loss (if all the
Egyptian possessions to the S. ofWédi Ealfah, in spite of the British
occupation of Egypt (1882:) and the belated exyediﬁons to Bengals}:
and to Khmﬁm (18%85). It in but too nmha’ble that these districts
will remain beyond the inﬂuence of Egypt; or of European civiliza-
tion for A long time to some.

Porwmnex um LANGUA63.+ The inhabitants of the upper
valley af the Nile, ever. from below the ﬁrst cataract, are caller}
Banibm (Barbers) by the Arab pannlaﬁan of Egypt. A more acw
curate name fax them is Nubiam, am} as tho aboriginal inhabitants
917 Africa they must he distinguished from the Kushite mines who
immigrated from Asia at a very early period, partly as the N. vié
the Eschmns (a! Sass? and partly in the 8., across the stnite of Béh
(sh-Mandala into RE. Africa. 01‘ these immigrants the former becama
the inhabitants of what is new modem Egypt7 the batter (also
Kashites seem-ding to Lepsiua) were the ancestors of the Raga}:
tribes, who settled to the E. of the Nile between that river and
the Red Sea. The Regal: Mime Also incluée the ‘Abdbdch on the PL,

. Sec also the introductory remarks on she Modem Egyptians, V91. 1.
p11. 39 em” especiany paragraphs 3 8.11115, on the Bednins and 36:13:13,,
Page-376
304 Route 30. mném Fm mm

the ”sharia, Mig‘ohuing them. ma the Hmimcimh further to the S.
’i‘haseiribaa inhabitm region 1mm?“ as the I‘M-Mi. Lapsins wcribes
to We ancasﬁais of tha‘ Begu'h the numerous inscriptions mm: are
found as‘ far up as Memé, both in picture—mung resembling
Egyptian hismgiypbics am! in a éemoﬁa alphabetic writing, which
suggests an indapendan: literature. A diﬂ'exant ﬂaw is held by
171. Brugsch, who has maﬁa within ﬁne last few yams ﬂat: ﬁrst 31593123332
1:: decipher these Mero'itio-Etbiopian inscriptions, u they are called.
Be inclines to the opinicn than: they have some connection with
ﬁns Nubian'tongua.-+ Three Nubian (liaisons an racoguized, ac—
cozding in {hair gaggnphical (Liaixi‘bution, Sh» 16mm. Mahala, and
Dongamh. The ﬁrst is spaken in ﬁlm district between Asmxﬁn and
Sebﬁ'ah, where it is succeeded by an Arabic strip, a: the beginning
of the dswmroutes to Abu gamed on tha S. and. to Wﬁdi ‘Olaigi
on the E. Thence to Ehnnok. almvo the 1rd cataract, the Mm:
idiom pmvaile, whila aha Bengals): dialect is spake}: £10m Emmi
throughout tbs pro/vines of Dongolah to Gebel Dégah. The meat N.
and the most S. Di these dialects have a ﬂour afﬁnity with each
other may: either has in the camera! Enhas, a fact‘explamed by
Dimclatiun’a transferwce of tha Dungoiase inhabitants of m oasis
of el~Khirgah :20 we district above Assuén fp. 302). The Mums
spply the name Oshkz'r m both the N. and S. dialects. .

30. From Philae to Xalabsheh.

Comp. the Map as p. 98.
381,"; Bi. The MAIL STEAHEE stops uniy at the siniiuna 0f Umm Ramifaé
(5 mir: halt), Kata/«hm ('1 Eris halt), and AM [101‘ [where 12:: nigh! is
5 6118,.

P As wa Ratva’l’hi‘w (Sheuét, p. 279), we have a ﬁne viaw of thin
pyEons 9f the temple of {sis am}. the ether buﬂclings, and of the
rocks 6f the island of Bigch. On both eidss of {ha-river rise {my
granite cliffs. To the; left, the ruins .0? dummm 3nd than the
tomb ofa: shékh. Bap/0nd Bigah lies the island of ekli'wach,’ se—
parated 11mm the W. bank by a rocky channel. A: d~Gu£i our
coursa bends to the SAY, afterwards returning to its 5. direction.
Thu unwary becomes less wild, and a narrow strip 9!” vezdum al.9-
yeus on web bunk. - Tc: the W. is than 69M Shunt-d.- Wais. -

1‘2 M. Debbt, on tha W. bank. A paved mum, £10 paces tong,
leavls from the Nile to the gate in the girdle-wall of the Temple.
01: the bank of tkm stream sevaral large blocks have ham built into

 

 

+ Two ember-Mu wm-ka have appeumd on theﬁnbiw Kangubger One
by Reinisch; Dic Nu‘hmﬁpmcha, 1. Thai}, Grammatik and Texts, 11. Thai!
Huhisch-Demschu “mi Deuesch-Nubivchea Wérterbueﬁ. Vienna. mi
(not Absalusely reliable {er permutation and quaniiéiﬂ); Hm other, by
R, Lepﬁw, Hubisch ‘ umatik, with an intmducﬁnn an the enp1ea
and languages of Afr; Berlin, 1880. To the “Mex” important 09k, a
3mg: :namcﬁve and “Mable work, our dawcﬁpﬁxm is connidm‘hiy in-
? 8 ‘
Page-377
B

‘Iui'aF‘

  

 

 

   

 

    
   

  

 

    

  
 
    
  

ﬁ’ﬁ
., s' }W uula .
.1' ,, THE FILE m ' , ‘
W I, 'z , m ﬁrm 5
. ‘, Demhidtoﬂm SecondCatarut. - y" ‘
1:13:31, tuoo‘ono ‘ .4 5' ‘
s- "
9‘ ‘
’ an)»

1- of null)

    

I'wb r

(vunnll " "
r

 

, A. 3 _
If ’5“ , m
f
Page-378

Page-379
io {Imam KERTASSI. 30. Route. 305

3. wall. The 1325?. doorway, about ‘25 ft, high, has no 5cuiplmes;
on the secami domway, about 50 ft. fat-char hack, apyeara the
winged sun-disc. The second pylon shows a much damagai Greek
insaripdon of Ptolemy Philomawr and his consort. In a straight
line, 23 it. farther, is a mini pylan; and 42 ft. buycnd that Is the
small temple proper (65 f3. deep and 40 it. bread), with ; side~
’ chamber on the left (S) side. The temple—fsgmie, with its four
columns. was thxown down in 1868 by earthquake, which also
daauoyed the ﬁrst: roam Th6 hatter cmztained a. ﬂadiumon ﬁrom

a&
the Emperor Tibezius ﬁbrin), and the Amokrumr Kisres
J Qt": Q

If)
(Augustus?) to the gods of Debﬁt gg‘: ”E [1633 Ta—bet

(comp. the Hsbxaw my, bet, house) The names of tha Roman emu
perms also appear on the door to the main «member of tha temyle,
though at the top of the' Lane! sidgof state title! 15 the dedication in—

scription of a nativa king (OMEIKTQJ W); 112' an mm.

soiep on re <Qi_%Qhwv;—%q3g

i‘em mar asé. This A: kheramon, like 1:313 Ergamms occurring at
Dakkeh (3k 316), was one of the dynasty of native kings who
raignad in Nubia during the period of aha Pwlamies and ﬁne Roman
emyerors. On each of the siﬁes {right and left) of this apartment
are eight scenes in two rows ens above the other, representing King
At’khammun mskiug oﬂ'czings to the gods of the place, Osiris, Isis,
and Horus, anti to the goés of the region of the cataracts. The
sanctum-y behind contains a granite mes, bmken in two, dating
{mm Energetes II. Physio}; and Cleopatra.

A aside: 02‘ the 12th (13m. (Ranu‘oxau Amonemha 11.), foumi here
and now in the Berlin museum, provas that mm must ham been a
very early settlement. The Roman Pei-embole (fortiﬁed camp; 1). 2‘32)
must have been situated in this neighbourhood for in the Itine-
rarium Antonini. a list ofJ’oman m1 {nary stadons the distance
from (COMM) Syena to Pgremboie in given at 16 Roman 1111le or
about 12 Eng. miles As a matter of fact, the tannins of an ancient
fortiﬁcation are found. near Debét.

At Dimrz‘ (W: bank) is an ancien: wail; and on the E. bank
farther on is the substructure of a. temple. The island of Morgue
(Markos), next passeﬁ, has some unimportant ruins.

To ﬁne right 07v. hank) next appears the {151/2 M.) small tample
of gsrtassi. an attractive built‘ling, recalling the bypaethra}. tangle
at 151:in (p. 285). A: the entrance, which faces N., only two 30—
lumns are now stat-ding, with the cotheaécd Isis am} Harbor
and a house auxmounted by a Uranus-serpent (113 11013110 6 of

Bmzxsxa Uppa Egyp‘.

it'— kheramoa (mick
Page-380
306 Ram 39. “man. Mm mm

Horus] as at Benders}: (y. 30) and Philm. Your columns are also
left on each 8168, united by means of a builqilng human“ them,
which has a semi ~portal on the W. side, farmest from £115 Mia.
The capitals of the side—columns resemble thou of the front co—
lumns of the hypmthral templa on Philm. They Me lotus-calyx
cayitnﬁs, fxamml u: the up with leaves springing 130m burly, while
banaath ire the urinal ﬁves inunli or rings. Only a singla erasa-
beam new rests upon the beams marking lengthwlse in this little
temple, which cannoz luvs been more than about 25 ft. square.

About 10 min. to the S, is a. double girdlouwall 9f larga he“!!!
stones, stretching to the Nile, and furnisheé with a. gammy. A
flight of sﬁeps leads down :0 the river. The pylon—like gateway
appears to have been head. by Another of the same kind. The wall
has been taken for the remains of 3, Emma!) permanenc cam?“ A11
ancient Tomi leads thaws m the SSW. to some 'Sandstom Quanrles,
which contain abcut 64} Greek vctivs inscriptions (and one éemotlc}
dating from the Ito-an imperial epoch {Sepﬁmius Savanna, Cara-
calla to Gordian). There are also two busts anti a carefully cons
strained niche, with Lila winged sun~disc above it, appuamly in»
tended ﬁe 1101:? a statue. The inscripﬁons have been carved mostly
by riests of the Game: (Espeuc yégou, p.150 cipxiepeuc, npécrm.
etc. , a word which Franz explains («Sm-9‘ hum-rip. Grime. III, 46% « '
to mam the carﬂaga of stones 1mm“ priestly management tram the
quarries fax the purpose of building temples.

At all Mensa in ma inscription w the let! 0! the had of {he bust
(in Lapsin: 3‘13) 3 prise! of 3m: Games, mall 0:565, son a! Phanlam.
racer-d5 :hal’. he had des alched 110 stones {or the wcrk of [sin of Mum,
vie. roba‘bly for one OH 3 later temples (perhaps the one next the stream
on 2 e W. aide). Considerable sump wax-a paixi for £113 privilege of holding
lhi! :91”:be lucrsﬁive efﬁng. Eighﬁ tablet! (the four eulier beside Sh:
left uses, the four laser beside me right hue!) record that s certu‘u Gums
mascara: (Julius) Huﬁnw, who 15 probably represeuled by both the
busts, held this ofﬁce eight ﬂuxes, for which ﬁrst and 133* he expand“
110 Iesa than MO pieces of gold (lpuscﬁc), equal to shoal 215:. Sn madam
currhucy. The years of his ofﬁce are: given: the 18m and 22nd years (0!
Septlmius Severus and his era-regent (Banana)? the 2m! of Beliogabaluu
9:- Alexméer SeverusV the 12st; (of the has named an eror), the is: (o!
Hummus), 1113 3rd (of Gordian}, and the 2nd 2mg 5th a Philippa: Amazes,
11:. in all a period 0! about 50 years, batwean 200 and 2&9 AA).

A table: of the, ﬁlth yam- of Caracana (:98 AD.) ream-dz; that a aﬂest
of the Games (cream!) the gunman (sun-dial) on the pylons «:91 T06

$55M“), ie. ‘pmbahly to detaxmine the right lime for sanding ml!‘ the giant“.
[2" fauna a sun-dial in the quarries 01' mam,

Among the deitias worshipped here besides Isle, were a goddess
named Egouquc (Smplichis) and 5 gm} namcd Hougssﬁyo‘htc
(Puraepmunls), pmbably native Ethiopian gods.

0:: the 215?“; (W; bank lies the cmsidenhle ﬁlings of Um-
Bamkab.

4% M. (W. bank) Tale}: occupies the site of Taphis, menﬂonad
in the Itinerarium Antonini. Two temples are mentioned by earlier
travellers as being hem, but in 1890 Prof. Eiseuluh was s s to dis-
Page-381
to KWSEWm KALABBEEH, :10. Home. 307

mover one only, at the I“). and of the village. The entrance, facing
the 8., 00111129213 of a tunnel portal (closed) and ﬁmallar adjoining
door. Its only aoulgﬁumé ornament is the winged aunmqlisc album
the control door. In the interior of the temple, which has a 51111-
structure of dressed 1111130an are four standing columns, with
tastefully carvml capimlss, and further on are various ruinous chain-
bers. To she W. aro tho remains of lame large and solid structures.
— At the foot of the mountains to the S. of the village, not far
from the river, are some scanty remains of enclosures and the angle
of a wall, in which plump: are to be identiﬁed the: traces of the
other amt longer temple, which was still standing in 1870. 011 the
hill above is a castallaseil building to which climbers may ascend:
On the opposite (£41.) bank lay Com": Trwilia, which has left no
remains of importmom

Bayoml Tam; £11m Gm}; shining moi-is advance close to ﬁle river-
bank, forming a gloomy gorge? known as 3&3- elufialabaheh, in the
11111111116 of whisk, 0a the E. book are some homes with plantations
of palms. The nevigeeion of this reach is somewhat dangerous,
owing to the frequent bonds of the river and tho numerous islands.
011 one of ﬁne islamin are some mine. 0n the right (TAR), beyond
the gorge, appears 1319 large ------

. 7 14.11921er of Kalabuhah situated a little below the tropic of
Cancer (N. let.‘23"31’3”) The magniﬁcent constellation of the:
Southern (Em-12 may be seen heme onwarde (Met between '2 and 4
3.111. in Jan. ma Fob). Cook’s tourist-steamers spend the ﬁrst
night here, and ﬁne lmvelle: has time to visit one if not both a! the

temples in EEG evening. The aircioixl name of Kaleb-shah wee Tal-
W m.» .....

1 . ' [:3
mi: written amt—é _ and 0 Tmm ill Moro-
? . ﬁg.» *3 :0 £3 V ?
glyyhics. it existed as early as the 18131 Dyn. and was perhaps

/
foumlod by Amenhoiep II. ((7) w ‘93 0 Ha ﬁr? kbepem, who is
l

\
represent-ail on the inner E1 well of the second court, before Khem,
yresenting wine anti milk to the local deity qudulin

(Enf§> .9333 $1) a 5011 of Horus. Beside him appears
...£.L

one of the Plolomiee handing the sign of the possession of a ﬁeld
to Isis, Mirroring mud another goddess (perhaps Neitli‘i). Although
this representation {laces from 21 late Roman porioaa ll; shown mat
Ami-3111101111} was regardeli as the founder and one of 131a Ptolemies
as the reslorer of 1M temple. The caﬁouche also of Tutmes 111..
the predecessor cfAmonhom-p 11., is found on 11 granite slams lying
before the outrmw of ﬁlm temple“ The show-mentioned Pmlomy
is probably Solar 11”., who appears in several reliefs .n the small
temyle in the N E angle of the paesago rmmé the outside of the

large temple; $u§mia meals-1131113 relyital of tho Rummy: (p. 39 ),
I , , . .09 BK
Page-382
308 Route 30; KALABSHE‘H. .Froén‘l’hilat’

whn were, about 540 All, defeated by Sill“), the Christian king of
the Nobades (p. 302) who celebrated his wie’mry in an inscription
on one of the pillars of the temple at Kalebshsh (see belew).

The extent Large Temple was built under the Roman emperor
Augustus and his successom The numerous inscriptions (in Graek,
with the exception of one in Latin lmxnmelasrs) mm] fram the reigns
of D0miﬁan,Trsjan, Hadrian, am} Antoninus Pius, aml of the later
smpsrors Alexander Severus and Philippus; they express the reve—
renae of the soldiers of the Spanish, Imrean, am} ’l‘heban cohorts
for the great god Mandulis,

Including the inner girdlemwall the temple is 235) it. long and
1171/2133, broad. There is also an outer girdle—well, with small
temples M the N .E. and SW“ angles. Befhre the last stami ﬁve
columns (ma behiml ﬁlth other. The inner gulls-wall joins the
massive pylon, forming a enntinuous bniming with it. In from of
the pylon is a narrow platform, reached by 3 ﬂight of steps begin-
ning at the Nile, then by a paved passage about 100 ft. long and.
25 ft. broad, lending to a. second ﬂight of ‘20 steps. The entrance to
the temple is blocked by fallen stones and the dwellings (2f natives,
who have esstlsd all about the entire temple. In the interior of the
pylon are stairs and chambers, as at Edfn (p. 5244:)" On passing
thmngh the door of she pylon, which is net in a ”night line with
the rest of the building but. at a slight angle with the axis of the
temple, we ﬁnd ourselves in a fore—court, 65 ft. long, the ﬂoor cf
which is quite covered with fallen blacks of masonry. 0f the double
row of columns which once strand here, probably in 4 canines on each
side, only a single column, on the left side, is new erect. Cm each
side of this court four nsrzew chambers have been constructed in
the wall; and a door on the right communicates with the exterior
passage round the temple: The walls of the entrance to the :1th
room rsiire towartis the top in the manner al‘ a pylon. Here on $116
right the above—mentioned decree .of Eilko is inscribed in bad Greek.
0n the nearest column is along inscription in the Ethioyian demo»
tic character, hitherto undeciyhsrsd, which may perhaps be a roplica

or repetitmn of the ﬁestas.

The En lish emulation of Silku’s imporﬁunt Greek inssrlption ii as
follows; ‘1, 111350, sub-king( nozllﬂoc) ofﬁhe Nobsdes and all Ethiopi‘ﬂh
came twice t9 Telmie [gala shah) and Taphle (Tnfehll I fought against
the Blemmyea and God gave me the vistory mm: them, three to (me.
Again 1 canquoretl and :60}: possession of their slties, I fortiﬁed myself
there the ﬁrst time with my troops. I nversame them and they sued to
me. I made peace with sham and may sworn to me by the images 01'
their gmis, and I trnsﬁed their oath, for they were brave man. Iucendmi
once more into the 11 pet districts. Since I became sub-king, I go :19
longer After the other lugs but before them. And those who seek to
strive with me, I :20 um allow in remain in their land unless way has for
pardon from mal For in the lower districts 1 am a lion, and in «as upper
distrlnts a bean __. I {might agaén wieh éhe Blemmyea from Prim}; to
Talmis. Ana I laid wasie the other districts, the uypcr Kabul regions,
when “my saughz to strive with me The rulers of the other peoples,
who seek to strive with me, K do not- ellow $0 seat 9;: in the
Page-383
ta Kalabcheh. BET EL—WALLI. 30. Route. 309

shame, if they do not how before me; ﬁnd they msy not drink wine in
their house. For whosoever raise. ﬁhelnselves againss me, them I deprive
of this wives and chiltircn‘.

0n the pillar between the two columns to the right of the en—
trance to tha main temple is another Greek inscription, This is a
decree of Aurelius Basarion, also named Amonlns,‘ military govurnor
of Ombos and Elaphanﬁne, ordering the owners of swine to remove
their animals from the holy Talmis. It probably dates from the
year 248-9 Al). —~ 0n the left sills 01‘ the elegant entrancsvtloor

{:13
appears the Pharaoh (probably Augustus), ovex whom Thoth
w

and Horns hat (or balms) pour the symbols of a peaceful life % ’1.

Baslrie him stamib' Hohsimisl (Home, son of Isis), the lord sf Talmis.
Leaving now the entrance—wall with its four columns behind us,
we ﬁnd ourselves in this main building of the templesihe portico
propar, which is 40 ft. deep and 66 ft broad, This partial) is con-
siderably higher than the: three rooms belxinil it; from which a;
llon‘ols staircase amends to the roof (now fallen) of the ponlco. It
has four, or insluding those of the entrance wall sis, elegant co—
lumns on each side, with varying cayitals. Only two, on tha left,
are new sanding in ills intsncr. 0n the E. wall the emperor ap—
pears sacrificing to she galls of Talmis, and adjoining this scene is
the above—mentioned relief of Amen‘netep ll. presenting wine and
milk to KhemLAmmon. -— Th3 next ehree rooms an small {171/2 ftg
deep and 40 ft. Wide], and have sacrificial scenes on their walls“
Each yrobably contained mm columns, those in the sesond room
being still nteserved. The suitcase to the roof ascended to the left
from the: ﬁrst room. 0n the qutside of the W. back-wall of the.
temple umvsﬁous wallvpreserved rapmsentations, incluéing the gcds
dsss Esis with Ptolemy Caessricn, son of Julius Caesar and Cleopatra.
The temple, ﬁlm that of Edfu, is surrounded. by a passage, widen-
ing towards elm rear and entered fre‘m l'na fore—court by doors on both
sides; and, as mentioned alumna§ there is also a second and “Thief
Passags outside the ﬁrst one, with which is has sommnnlcsﬁon by
means of a door an the left side. This outer passage could be closed
by msans of doors. Th6 whole structure is a faithful reyraducticn
of an wily Egyptian temyle, bu: dates from Roman times.

 

‘20 min. to the N” is much more noteworthy than the large Roman
inaction at Kalahshah, Th8 way to is leads along the verge of the
mountain, level at ﬁrst, but ﬁnally ascends steeply. The temple
consists of a vestibule, of which only the side walls are now stand—
ing, a main chamber, enteredby a central and two side doors, and a
small adytum, adjoining the latter. In the vestibula mu- interest is
exciced by tbs warlike scenes on the sidewalls. Th ,e lnd' ate
Page-384
310 Home 30. BET EL-WALLI. ﬁom Phihz

that the tamyla was deﬁicatad not only :0 tbs warship of the gods
AmmanaRa, lard of Nubia, Horus, Isis, and the gods of the sonnets
Khnum, Anuke, and Sati, but also to the memory of the victories
gained by Ramses the Great (we: the tribes of theN 1‘ ehennu) and
of the ‘4. [Kushites) Th3 Victories (we: the N 1mm; are depicted

on the: N, walk; those» over the S. vibes an the 5. wall.

We turn ﬁrst to the right (N. wall} Th3 Taxman, u tribe 0f the Li~
bynn Mock. had sealed to the W1 61' Egypt. Thcy were painted beards,
and were distinguished by havm the hair cat smooth across the brawa,
with long- gunman: airia-iockh (1 begin our impaction of the reliefs
at the and: to she left» Here apgeara the Phat-nah? seated in 3 mos,
holding in one hand a long staff bent at. the tap, and in the other the

symbol of rala hak, while on his had he wears a. crew of bull‘s

horns , to which eight scrpenhdindems are atﬁnchcd‘ A: hia feet

in a lion In the uppcr row, Ammhiassmf {‘Ammon at his right hwd‘),
one of his M115 srmcd with a. bow, leads ‘hroe bound prismxcra m him
In ‘he lower row is a fem—bearer fol} owed by a band 61‘ 501 ‘diers. Adjacem
is the inscﬁplion: ‘The wince speak who is before His Hajesﬁy, Hail
to them Oh guad mail beiuvesi mince, 5011 05 Amman, having proceeded
from his limbs. Thou gout out: into the sunny. Thou art like Ea above,
who travels on the) hurizun. Thou taxes: she inhabitant! ongypi. Thou
art in tho: body at thy 11011:yawn-Miss~ Thaw. wearaat zha different halmhta
Thou m n annﬁhﬂatov oi the ill-deem in the body of thy mother Isis. Thou
(unseat both huives of Ken!» to become green. Years like Tum, prince
of both lands, like Pta‘h ‘m haven, red Egypt. under my feet, Kind-a (8y—
riA), Kushi (Eéhirxpia) in thy hand. The lanrl 0i Mara (Egypt) rejoices, 0
guinea, because thou has: widened its boundariea‘. —— The. following wane
shaws us :ha king on the point af numng on‘ the hair, or garhapa awn
éhe head, af use of the Teheamn, with a. sickle~ahaped kn! His do;
(427mm em hath) springs upon the kneenng foe. The king is here calm}
a. ’atx-(mg £10111 L313 ﬁlm-xi of {in swurd, who binds the Whilruﬁ 13nd: of
ihe Tehennu, and cuts xhe nine alien peoples in pieces with his sword
and cases than: unéer his feet. — In the third relie. the king in his
chariot “11113 a blow at two foes whom he holds by their hair, and presses
hard upen his mainies who am armed wi‘h spears. He is «unpaved to
:he war-god Mama, lord of Thebes. Ha next appears on foot before 5
fox-ire“, and on the batiiaments above in ihe {mince (abH-er), whum
Ramsaa seizes by 1110 hair to kin him 011 the luwer hatﬁements stand
men had women wing 10 the Pharaoh. DE when w inscription “ya,
‘Lhere in no other liks Baal, O prince, his true 5021 m :11 eternliy‘. A
woman is lu‘ﬁng a chi‘ (1 down from the castle to save it fwm death, a.
mam ‘hrowa himself headlang down. while one of Ramses‘ followers is
banung in the (1001-13 with an axe. - In the 133i scene or: this side tbs
king appoan with fetter-5:1 anemia; soma led to him by curds.

The r ‘iefs on the 8 Side 110 fess interasting, relate to the subjuga-
tion of {:1 Kushites, 111121011 11‘ the inscription beside the king reads ‘the
rule:- 0! Egypt, who baa an duad the lasting a and made the boa-dam 3:
he nhcsa among the Rhianna (8 ring 9.11:: Assyrians)”. Hare akin we
see the king‘ 9 sons in two rows ringing me captmed booty to the Phi-
P80h.11'1 tue upper row. Amonhiunem‘ﬁ 1110 king 9 eidaat son, points ‘0 n
alami adorned with ﬁow'erx and leaves on which men kneal in unmana-
(ion while ringa (01' gold ?) and skins hang from it; next. is Amnomaps
the king 3 son of Khan, and behind him ringa. bags, weapunn, pmehzr-
skins, :Melds, chairs, .3115, and many 0 ma articles Th5 lower row is

 

1"». {nix-caused by three Oiﬁcials. carrying 6113 (g and T. and W33 than
Page-385
to Kazabaheza, BET EL~WALLL 30. Route. 311

is again the king’s son Amemmagit. An Egy tin beans a. pole wii‘u rings
and skins, and then in boil: mwa approacx nagroes, some bound. and
Oman free, with all kinda of animal; —-- monkeys, s giraffe, antalopes,
a lion, new: wigh twine/ﬂ borne, greyhounds, enriches, and panthers.
The nag-mes are unmiatalwble, not only on acceunt of ﬁlm awarﬁhy mm
of lheir skins bu: also on account of their excellently reproduced facial
elxaracleﬂstlcs. Another scene Shawn us the. king in his chariot, followexi
by his so”, among wlmm Kltaamua :ppun (lowtr row), launching an
arrow against the ﬂed uchoeu; some cf whom are already presets?» on
the greund. The worm ea". father is brought bank to his wife and chil-
dren. Imdumea! is cooked for him. A monkey alts upon (me of the keen
peculiar :0 this region, with heart’shaped leaves and funicular fruit.

These scenes serve as excellent illustrszions to the life of king Se-
noimia (llamas; 11.), a» related by Diodama (I. 53 seq.) Seanosia was ﬁrst
seat by his km: with am army into Arabia, and sumamied in whining
the eople of that land, hitherto invincible. He was then deepascbed to
the . region: and made himself master of the greater part of Libya,
whila still but a yuulh. On his mum‘s death he usumad the kingdcm.
Be prepared a mighéy armament and marched ﬁrs; (I. 55} to she 5. against
Elle Ethiopia“. lie conquered the salinity and impvsed upon it u txibuie
uf‘ (moan gold, and ivory.

ﬁle temple proyer, 1mm: in the rock, is antetaé by three doors.
The central and highest, is rounded at the top; the smaller doors
to tbe right were obviously not made until after the wall had been
Coverall with sculptures. 0n the inner side of both of these side
drum) i3 Ramses” represenmﬁ as a traveller, with it long Mai, and
saying ‘I come to thee, Amman-Ra, I am thy son , ate.’ On the:
back of the two entrance-pillars is the king receiving the symbols

3
of life from Horus, lord of a Mam (the name of a temple

max Dakkeh), and on the right from Tum. The two representations
on the: right and. left (:f the emxance-wall are unusually ﬁne; on
the lefi the king 110le a neg-m (Rush), anti on tha right. a Tehannu,
by the haix, and. smitea them with his weapon. In each case the
single enemy symbolizes the entire nation; so that the inscﬂyﬁon
beside the right scene reads: pct pct mm: mchzl, ‘he smites the
people of the N.’ The archimwe supported. by two columns has a.
ﬁne 635%. The Dorie columns are ﬂuted, and the abacus bears the
name of Ramses 11. (similar columns at the tombs of Benibasm,
see: p. 12). The builder’s inscription is on elm art-,bitrnb. In tba
right half the king is eallad a. son of Khnum, who formed himsalf
on the pottsr’s wheel with his own hand {1011mm la the creator of
men}. En we left half are the words: ‘The king of the Uﬂmaﬁes—
ms, the true dafsnder (Gr. Solar), who sacriﬁces to the cycle of
the gods, built tbs temple for his father‘s father, and renewed the:
buildings of the temple”. By ‘fathex‘s father‘ the god Khnum. may
be mean: or the king’s actual grandfather Ramses I. On the right
side-wall Rmmea 11., cmlducted by Anuke, pmffers wine to Klmum
and Sui, tbs gods of the “wrists; and on she laﬁ wall km offers
incense to Horus, lord of Bebeni (opposite Wédi Halfa’n, p. 841),
and. to Isis-Salk with the scorpion on her head. On the bask—wall
similar homage is will. in Amman— .3. In the realms on the right
Page-386
3E2 Route 31. DENDQ’R. me Kmbmeh

tbs king sits between Khnnm anal Anuka, and in that en the; Inf:
between Horus, 10rd of Bek, and the conkhsaded Isis. The colours
of thase pictures are well~ptaserved. The doors to the little snncmm
ary, which here the name Ramerma seholep Mum, 5.5. ‘Ramses
offering to the gods‘, and the sanctuary itself an decorated with
various inscriptionse The Mm;$ stair in hands is mnﬁuctmh on the
right by Saki? (m ﬁha 19ft by Makac. On Q“? wan to the right of the
door, Anuke, mistress of Abu, offers her breast to the king, on the

left Xsis, mistress of 1115 land 91‘ Khent m g o , (lens the

same. Each calls herself his mother. Isis says the she bestows
anon him ﬁxmnegs along with her milki so shat he is said to have
been dastined from his number‘s breast to long Rifn and mighty
deeds. [Diodozus reiates that Hephastus appeared to the king’s
father, announcing to him that the new—Born babe wouid subdue
the whole world; and in ths long inacn‘pﬁon at Abyﬁos Ramses in
said ta have done great deeds while still a child} On the sidsw
walls are scenes of homage to the Ring, with oﬁexinge gsiled up
upon tabies bearing the; caxtnuches of Ramsas II. A: the back is a
racess with tau-ea obscum ﬁgures, perhapia th, Ammou, and
the king.

31. From Kalabsheh to Dakkeh.

Comp. ﬁle Mm)i p, 305

231/2 M 0n the voyage to (7 M) Aim Hor (W bank) we pass
bet-ween iow rocky banks causing rayitis T313 mail-sieamar syemi &
the ﬁrst night. after Sheila} at Abu Her, atxming new. warning at
4 tun. Above this point vegetation almost ceases and the scenery
becomes desert. To the right apnears the —

6 M. Temple of Denim, dating entirely from Roman males. 1:
consists of a. hamiaoma pylon and of the temple proper, supported
by we columns, about. 30 ft. farthar back, The pyion stands upon
a solid platform of new-éwm’y1 14 ft” high and 95 ft, broad. The
portal, single instead of doubla is at Edfn m1 Phila , rises at the
back of this platfnrm, surrounded by a law wall. At the top is tha
winged sun—disc , and wiihin and on the front (E) anti back (WI)
the pylon in adorned with reprosentatinns of the emnemr sacri»

I r-
ﬁcing to various gods. The emparox, hare called simply Q ”I
Pin-ac}, Pharaoh, though within the temple he is named Autokmtor
Kieres, is probably Augustus, as Tiberius, Hero, and can: succend-
ing emperors are usually designated by their names.

These sacriﬁcial scenes are particularly inmrasting because
they make known to us not oniy some of the naive gods , whose
names may be of impoﬂance for on: knewledge of the native lan-
guage, but also the names of various native princes such as ﬁlm
Page-387
to Dawn. Dnnnﬁa. 31. Rouse. 31 3

Noland king Silks met at Kalabsheh (p.308), who continual to rule
subject to Roman supremacy. Thus in the ﬁrst scene antler the
door—lime} the Pharaoh is seen before two personagas, 6f whom the

first, an Osiris E: Li : g Pete's! (‘he who belongs to 1515‘), is dew
sczibed as Ina-khan, ale. as dead, and is named m [1 £5 Si and
elsewhere 53:] {I} {I CD 3"?! (the ‘Nnbian word for prince)
{Jag in“ {162, which is perhaps tha ancient name of Bend-(1:,

and with the % Ear (nte ‘nat 110!) added in the lowest repre-

sentation to the right, approaches alsa the modem name. Puma.

was probably a. deceased native prince; and Pihar E k , his
/

brother, who stands behind him wearing a {Imus-ﬁllet and no
crownS was probably another. The latter stands in the recosg at the
back of the calla bafom {sis1 Inisttess of Abate!) and Pilak, Like
Petﬁst he is calleﬁ the son of Kupar, with the addition 0?

km ‘ . q M
2: § “5 Heat or 3531’ in the holy mountain 6 w , which
u Q Q
pexhaps means ‘lnterred’ or may ha a title. A PiMr is mentioned
twice 1m Phripahov in the dammit; inscripcion in the ﬁempie at

Dammit, as daciyherud by Ravilleut.
In the second (middle) scene to the left on the front of the py»

ion a god n E j} Arpemefer (yarhaps pronounced uglies-
I s

.
:nsfer, see helon‘i1 with bulls’ hams like Khnum, stands before Tef-
nut. Perhaps ﬁrpesnefer is the native name for Khnum (or fer
Osiris Unnofer, zirpes x 1m). —— We pass through 1119 pylon and
ﬁnd onxseives in from of the elegant faqade of the temple, only
13 ft‘ wide, 3m} crowned with'ﬁm wing-Ml sun—disc (bells!) and the

symbols at endurance f3 and fertility ﬂ. Uza. {was} are: repro—

samed on the abaci of the two columns 55th nalmwcapitals. To the;
right and left of the central entranue (at the) sities of which were
once pyobahly bainmlmdcsj now destroyed) are crowned snakes
coiling round 3 mil”, ﬂowers, etc, The pillars to the right and left
«exhibit sauriﬂuial scenes (three on each aide): above, to the right,
is the emperox (Automate? Kisrea) before Patnae, son ofKupnr;

below, no me right, the same before 4» § I Arfscsm’fer, to the
I
left, below Horns, and before Thom and his. —-— Thgtamplg is
Page-388
314 Route 31. GERF HUSEN. From gramme

divided into three apartments. A door leads to the outside from
each side of the ﬁrst apartment. Behind the temple proper, which
is only 42 ft. long, is a. small recess hewn in the rock, and adorned
on the outside. The N. and S. outside walls of the temple are also
sculptured.

Beyond Dendﬁr the banks of the Nile become ﬂatter and are
psrtly cultivated.

81/2 M. Gert Eugen has a. Rock Temple, formerly called the
Temple of Kink after the opposite village (p. 316).

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The village of Gerf Husén‘occupies the site of Tulzis, a place
mentioned in the Itinerarium Antonini, ‘20 Roman miles, Le. 18
Engl. M., above Talmis (Kalabsheh). The sacred name of this

:1
place was @ Pa Ptah, the House ofPtah. The pylon, ofwhich

Gen and Ghampollion saw traces in front of the rock-temple, has
disappeared, having been washed away by the stream. The word gerf

9,? means, in fact, a bank washed away by a stream. Several

sphlnxes, with small statues of the king, still rennin, forming an
avenue from the river-bank to the temple. Next to the pylon was a
Vestibule, built outside the hill, while the temple proper is hewn
in the rock. In this vestibule two columns to the left are still
standing (the two to the right have disappeared), and seven of the
original eight pillars, with somewhat clumsy Osiris—statues. The
last bear on their shoulders the name of Ramses 11., who built this
temple and is the only king mentioned in it. He appears not only
as the founder, but also as one of the deities to be worshipped here.
On the beams of the architrave he is named with both his names as
lord of the festivals like his father Ptah, as the ruler of Egypt
and conqueror or his foes (expressed pictorially). The next room
(45 ft. square), hewn out of the rock, requires artiﬁcial light; it
produces a. serious and gloomy effect. The ceiling is supported by
Six Osiris-pillars, 28 ft. high, representing the king as Osiris, with
the crown on his head, his crossed arms bearing the signs of rule
Page-389
:0 13mm. 13mm 1,1115%. 31. Route. 315

{the crook end. the scourge), and warning an apron with a lion’s
haud‘ The Signing of Osiris, especially the lime? 1mm}? am some-
what roughly examited. On each side of the chamber ire four re-
cesses, each with the king, variously elm, standing between two
viaities. The wall-spaces above and between these recesses are ac-
cuyied with representations of the king making oﬂeringa, the king
being depicted alone in the lower row, and the god. to whom he

oﬂexs worship in the wee: raw.

Left (5.) Side from the entrance: 1. The king with intense before
Ammnmiia; ‘2, before Ra. with the hawk‘rs head and nun-disc; 3. before
Tum; 4. oiering meme before Pub in his mos; f3. before Ra with the
grown; 6. beiore Thom, with the ibis‘s head. In the Eour recesses "below:
1. The king between AmmanvFua and Math; ‘2, between Home, lord of lick.
and Horns, lord of Bcheni; 3, between Fish and Haiku; 4. between Ptah
uni Sal-(hat, the iian-hearied loved ﬁne of Ptah. Here and elsewhere in
this 12:1;er iwo farms of Fish ate dint-in united; one show; him inn-a-

headea, the other with the headdress ] .

The upper Meneu on iha Right (M) Walt are partiy destroyed, but we
can make out she king before Be, Tum, Menm, and Kimum. in the re‘
eeasea {right} in the king between Earmachia and Jusas; between Horus,
lord of Rum (Abu—Simhei?) and Isis, maths: of the 3064;; between Refer»
tum ané Suﬁ; between Khnum sad Anuke.

0n the backwaii, to the right and left of the entrance to the next
room, are iwx) large scenes. To the left is the: king before Pink, before
Russet himself and the goddess Eamon with the cow‘s head; with event
hex-us, between which are two feather: an in the headdress of Pub (see
above). To the right, the king appears befure Li’tnh in the form of &
man: 3', before the deiﬁed Ramses, and Sekhet seated on a ihmnei

The faliowing man, the Sekas, about 36 ft. wide though oniy
17 it. deep, is entered by a proportionately small door, on the left
side of which is the king before Ptah. The ceiling is supported by
two square pinata. To the right and left two oblong recesses (see
Pi. p. 314) run of: from this chamber, and at the back are three
othex recesses, the central and largest of which i; the Sanctuary. On
the piiiars the king apyeats worshipping various deities‘ On the
N. side (if the right yiiiur he is named ‘Beinved of Ra-Harmaahia

in the land oi Wawa’ :2 9 ﬂ 1 W, shame fox-Nubia.
aiready met with (p. 301). At various places the tempie is spoken
of an 12:30 2 Pa Ptah, ‘mese of Path"? 6.9. on the door or the
sanctuagy, i3 tho right cf which the king is called the beloved of
seven gods, Amman, Ptah, g Shu, Manta, Khnum, Sekhet, and

Ramon At. the back of the sanctuary is a recess with four seated
ﬁgures, representing (from the left) Ptah, the deified itemses, hair.
with the headﬂress (see above), anti Esther with the cow’s head.
Page-390
316 3mm 31. BARKER. From gumm

0n ﬂm left bank of the Nile, above Gerf Engén, are the comma
arable ruins ofﬁabagamh. The village of limb (E. bank), opposite
Geri Eugé‘n, has been wnjectuzally identiﬁed with Karim, men—
tioned. in the Graek inscription of $215 ofﬁcsm of Psammetikh at Abu-
Simhul (p. 334). At um viilage of Ramada, (m the E. bank, are
aware ancient waits. Our eonraa bands to 1.116 W. and lands put
granite Mbgi to—

101/2 M. Dskkeh, on t‘ma W. bank. {Cooks steamer halts long
enough to permit a visit to the temple.} Dakke‘n is the ancient

4:)
Paola-his, hierog. 0 Us P—aerkez, the ‘House of Salk‘ or of

“.49.... ‘33 8
the ‘Scerpion’, an animal that is here remarkably common. The
Roman genarsl Patmnius defeated the Ethiopians at P53101133 in
‘23 A.D., on his campaign to Napata (31. 802). Dak’zeh eariy be-
came the site or“ a. temple; Prof. Eisaniohr found. a stuns here with
the name of Amemmha (new at Heidelberg). In the ssmbankment
hauling in tha N. from the pylon. in the axis 01' the yresent temyle,
stones at earlier buildings. have been used, several with the car—
touche of Tutmea III. (which Occurs also on a column) and Seti I.
Gan”: theory that thsrs was formerly another ediﬁce to the right,
almost as large as the present one ta the; left, seems insuﬂiciently
supported, though suggested by existing remains. The present
tempie was built by the native king Ergamenes (the inne! tempie
C, comp. Pi. p. 317), Ptolemy IV. Phiioyator (Stakes B), and Pto-
iamy IX. Energetes 11, (the pmmws A). and it was cnmplated by n

3033311 Emperor Piréz‘i (Pharaoh), by which name Augustus
0-0

is usually understood. It has airsady been related (p. 302) that
the Nubian sub-king Ergamenes, in the reign of Ptoiamyﬂ. Phil»
dalylws freed. himseif from the priests at Napata, causing them to
be Ixmrdered in the temple there. Nam-as of such Nubian sub-
kings, especially under the Roman empirs, are founti on the Ethio-
pian buildings and in the demotic inscriptions at Philly, Kalabsheh,
and Dakke‘h. It is somewhat improbable that this same Ergamenas
was the buildar cf the tempia of Dakkeh, for tho Ergamsnes 01" the

[IL—.1
temple is represented before Pir12&(Pharmh) and‘Anuke, and
m

the title of ‘Pirii‘ is usually empioyad anly by the Roman empe—
rors (Augustus, Tiberius?), and aften along with ‘Autokrator like
res’, as in the innermost ohsmher I) as well as in tha frontchamhar
A at Dakiaeh. 0n the othar side, mm mm proofs that the chamber
D must be more ancient than the twe fmnt rooms, which existed
even under Ptahamy Philopaior and Euergetes II.

The present Temple Buildings 0f Dang-ah embracn $319 maﬂﬂiw
pylons and the temple Prepar, lying 40 ft, behind them, both fac-
ing the N. {30" E. daviation). The whole stands npqn'a subgmﬂal
Page-391
ﬁa'liahkeh. DAKEEE. 31; Route. 33 7

terrace of masonry, in a barren anii stony district, The temple
is dadimtgd to the gall That]: of Penubs (Ethkvpia)? the Hermes
Trfsmvbgistus of the Greeks. He is the ehief deity of the: temple,
anti m him are addressed the numerous prayers in the ﬂemoﬁc and
Greek inscriptions that cover the temple. Ha is frequently repre-
ssnmd Mth a snake coiled muné a. staff, Eiko the Earmos of ﬂu)
Greeks. Along with him Teinux “sunny appears3 bu: Humor, Isis,
and the gods of the cataracts also occur. On both sides of the FY—
Lozws, whieh are about 80 ft. broad, staircases (93 steps) ascend to

11517
Page-392
318 Route 3:. mmn. Fhom {swam

the roof, and there are interior chambers as at Edit: (3. $49). A
small door in the gateway between the pylons also admits to she
pylon on the right. There are no hieroglyphics on ﬁhe oniaide
of the pylons, the only ghee in which they ere found being she
inner walls of the central gsmwaya 0n the lefs side hers is an un—
named king making offerings 9.0 the god Thoth with the qmdmyie
crown, and to Tefnut and Hethor, while his appears below. The
sculptures on the right side are destroyed. Numerous inseriptions,
chieﬂy Greek though some are demonic, are found both on the out»
side of the pylons and in the central get-sway.

The entrance of the Temple has two columns with palm—0319i»
tale. The portal has been partly destroyed, and the partition walls
crowned with serpents, which connect the columns with the sloping
buttresses, hsve been broken through the middle‘ and the represen-
tations upon them zlefaced. 0n the left (19.) side the temlrle-wall
adjoins a wall of (lresssd masonry, which formerly enclosed the en-
tire temple, forming a kind of court; while another wider girdle-
wall, now disappeared, seems to have begun at the pylons. A yath
constructed of ancient hevm stones led from the pylon tn the temple,
but this has been destroyed except close to the temple, so that we
have to climb up to the platform. The ﬁrst portion of the temple,
the Pmmros (PL A)? 241/2 ﬂ, broad and 17 it. «leap, is covered
with huge ﬂagstonea, placed lengthwise in the direction of the
temple axis. The frieze beneath this roof hears the dedication—
inscriptions of the gramme, the: in the miﬂdlo being a much da-
maged Greek inscﬁyﬁon between two winged serpents with royal
crowns. The following words are still legible: .....

‘mzep [30.611204 mole. . . . . . 5197;;
Sign: suep‘yzrmv . . . . . ' a . 1 MM
mtg-.mourpz . , , . g A a

From fable we gather that ﬁlm promos wen desicsmd m Hermes
Paomuphis m the 35th year of Euargsree II. (136 B 0.), by rhea king
and his wife and sister Cleopatra. Paotnuphie occurs as Pautnuphls
in another inscription, placed by Saturninns Waters-nus Aquila,
who executed the gliding in the temyle. The Wmline hieroglyphic
inscription, on each side of the Greek, corresponﬂs with the latter
to the left, ‘Horhut (referring to the adjoining protecting vulture
wich outsymsd wings), the great god, ‘ . . yrntoct thy beloved son
Pnrxlmis Energstes and his sister and: his wife Cleopam‘a, the divine
Euergetes, beloved of Theth Penuhs‘; to the right the last phrase
is altered to ‘heloved of Isis, mistress of Pilsk and the southern
gods’. 0n the right Earhart is described. as dwelling in the northern

house (is a, and. on the left as dwelling in the southern

Q
house. The side-nillars on the right and left bear scenes of worship,
on the left. addressed to Shu and Tefmxt Thoth and Nehemunt.
Khnum, and Esther, en the right a; Amman—Ra and. Math! Home
Page-393
to Dakkeh. BARKER“ 31. Rants. 319

and Esther, and Osiris and Isis. Attention should be paid to :he
two lowest rapmsenmtimrs, which are lion'bles scenes showing the
king with lotus and yapyrusmplants, tha queen with bouquets of

ﬂowers, followed by the Nile-god Hapu and by Sekat Q g Q , goddess

of the ﬁelds, who aura-ﬁes sacriﬁcial cakes and {owls of various kinds
and is weamnmlad by a small hull. 0n the yarﬁtionnwall, new
partly destroyed, ’w the left, the king awed below Thalia Penubs,
whose ﬁgure is sail! visible. He is here named lord. of Pselk

1:: am.

.4... <36 C: a;

ping before Isis, daughter ef Seb ané Nut. Behind Isis is her car-
touche, like that of a quean; ‘may she protect King Energetes'. 0n
the front of the two columns are not only the names of the founders
of the promos, but; also Ilmse of their anneslors, she divine Adelyhi,
Elwrgetaa‘, Philopa’mres, Epiphanes, and the; divine Philomeror;
while one of them is dedicated to the memory of Thor}: of Pe~
nnbs, the ether to that of Isis, mistress of 'Pllsk (Phila). The re«
presentations on tha back of than columns are very remarkable.
0n the right sins is a cynecephalus (symbol cf Theda), with an

To the right stood the king and queen warship—

object like a slsh-nm in its hands; on ﬁle left sida is an enﬁirely

nil-Egyptian seated ﬁgure of a dark bearded man, with a. quintuple
headdress, playing upon the harp. This is the 113nm of ﬁn} Echi~
A

opian god [\1 Sop! or Bes, who smiles the ensmy. The interim
xJ

decnraiion of this hall Llama from Augustus; who is ham distin-
guished by the cartonches ofAutokmtmr Kisres (2.9. on thehack of tha

ET:
partitlmlmwnll as well as by the name Q {as}. on the side~walls).

0n lha left side-wall is) an interesting yictnre, representing the
E’huaoll pmﬂgring to She god of writing (Them) 3 paleﬁe, which
is borne by ﬁgures of Isis am} Nephﬁhys.

On the right wall the emperor stands before the crowned ram’s“
hearlaql Khnum, below Oslris and 1515, before Horns and Rather,
and before Athesner‘er and Tefnut. A scene on the back wall of the
pronaga shows the hing handing wine to the god Thoth, who holds

in his hand a staff ll beslée which two serpents ana n, scorpion are

placed. Somu ﬁgures 0f Uhristian saints have been deﬂated on
this wall.

The doorway to the next room (Pl. B). which dates from Pm-
lemy IV. Philopator, was erected as the door of a pylon, as is indi-
caend on the Plan (1:, 317). There is an exit from the promos
through this right wing of this nylon, and mother exit to the left
leads into the maxi outside the temple. The rear-wall. of the prom
Page-394
320 Ram 31. BARKER From {Imam

mos, Le. the front wall of the Selma or Room B, exhibits Ptolemy

43:1 ham yuhhihw

the divine Eucrgcm, chosen by Ptaia, ssh-(mg in she hiyhnea: of Ra,
living image of Ammon. 0n the left he brings offerings to R3, than
to Khnum and Isis, on the right, to Amazon-Ra and to Horus,
avenge: of his father, and presentu the ﬁeld to Isis. Within the
10mm!? Augusiug riff-m (ha ﬁgura of Ma to 1.3m god Thoih (v? Penal);
and to the lion-haaaed Tefnut. Above) the doaxway, on the inside,
is a double scene; hath right and left Isis presents the symbols of
life to a crowned hawk, the symbai of the king. Behind the hawk
on the bait. am the Caxtouches of King Phiiopawr 11ml his wife
Arsinoéi, and behind these, the cartouches of King Phiiadelphus and
his wife who also was named Axsinoé. On the right side, behind
the cal-Muelxes of Phiiomw: and his wife, are those of the king‘s
fatha: Euergebea I. and his wife Bewnice,

The bachmwali of this narrow chambcn whose aids-walls fell
same years ago, is at the same time the entrances-#312 of the most
ancient portion of the tem‘pia, viz. the Sanctuary (PI. 0), built by
the above-mentioned native hing, Ergammee. This hing spyears
with his full canouches on the Wright wall

%% a<qw malﬁ/ 1»;an 3)] Amen zeta ankk d: m,

Living hand of Ammon Part of Ra’,

(q Q ﬂ :3; g g ﬁg (a) Ark [mm ankh Wt (182 mu,
\ A Nwwx sum“ (3

‘Ergamanes, eve: living, beloved of Isis’. He makes oﬁezings to
Osiris, isis, and Horus, than prefers wins to Amman—Ra, Mnth,

and Khnum, and ﬁnally appeara with before Qsiris, Thoth

Permits? lord 0f Pselk, and Tumult At the font are Nﬂh-godai
Similar representations occur on the left EddaS when the king makes
pﬁarings to Thoth, the lion of the south, to Shu and Axhasnefar,
and then to Khnum. Rather. and various other deities.

The door of ihe sanctum! appears to have) been gi Med. Abova
it is a double daﬁicationwinseription of Ergameues arranged in
two parts, likes the later insaription ofEuergetes II. on the outer
portal, (in one side the king sails himsalf the son of Osiris and.
Isis= welded by Naphthys, and son of Khnum and Saki, Buckied
by Anuhe; on the other side he styles himsair son of Am-
men, beloved of Osiris and Isis, and again beioved of Arhesnefer

I}? g and of Thoth Penuha. The inner whila of this chamba:

were @3166 adorned with the most varied sacriﬁcial scenes timing-311
in rows (me above the what One of ﬂmse, in the sacond row on
Page-395
to Dakkek. 111111101111. 31. Route. 321

the wsll to the right, allow; the king (Ergamcmea) pouring our wine

CI!
for a god aescribed as ‘ ' Fir—13F; of 86113111. 111 armcher the king
W

appears before; Imimtrp. arm. of 911.11, khurhsb 811:3 Grammar 0f the
royal writings.

A small door in ﬁlm 3.61m) wall admits to :1 richly dmcorateni
Cell (P! E). Tm) lions ¢]®pic€ed on the baclrwwall recall the Gate
of the Liens at Mywnw Above them is 311 allegorical compcs 0.111011:
1110111 in the ﬁgure ofababoon 51,211,119 lmfam aller- v'Tafmrt}, above
whir-h i». the sunudisc and a vulture: with a unreal 5111016.: this is
Tefmtt, daughter of Ba on the holy island (01' 1311131). Mamba:
door 011 the right: (If the sanctuary leads to 11111 staircase (Pl. F} as-
cending to the roof of the temyle. ------ The lunar-most 100111 (1’1. D),
named the ‘Romzm sanctuary“ by Ghampollion, was entirely built:

by the emperor designated [loo] Ema. «uni contains

scenes of worship to the same gods as appear in the preceding
chambers. 0110 of the scenes represents the empamr Marrying
upon the goﬁrﬁess Isis » lumidress dscarated rural"; Mm Hallumwmask.

0f the Outside Walls Duly the W.wa‘1‘1 i ‘crnari. Abevs the
door to 'he outside was placed a. fourmllnehierc phic 1n: ﬁrm,
with a demotic inscripticn below The former is said to read: May
his name remain bafom ‘I'hoth of Pannbs, .1113 great. gml, tam :0rd of
the town of 500111101119 (Pwsez 1;, before Tefnut, 11017015 ﬁlm great gods
of 1.1m temple of the house ofscm 'iomsl. Prof, Eisenlohr was unable)
10 discover this inscription in 1.8. 0.

On t‘lm E. bank. nearly opposite Dakkel), Iii-.5 Mm village of
Eubhan, on the aim of Contra Pselchis, mentioned in lbaltinerarium
Antonlni as ‘24 110mm M. (22 Eng. M) from Contra Talmis (Kalah—
shah), though in reality it is 3‘2 Eng. M. The ruins here are those
of an ancient Egyptian fortress, defendea by 6111;011:311 and rowers.
To the 8.31m blocks with the names of'rmmm;11};V Horus, Ramses 11.,
and 1711.6? Kamessides; and Still farther to the 5%.. a stale us” 31an
1191111151 HI. anal the founéaﬁens of a small temple. Prism 6911116111135.
discovered hum Hm wallmknown stale describing ﬁns (01411:: R» the
gold-mines 111 this Wﬂdi ‘Oiﬁki and the 11161371le of 51.111111in 121855
with water This stele, datirrg frum ﬁles 31d 1' of Ramses 11.,
which was take“: by Gaunt St Fame] to l1 43:1 ox. [$115159
prompted (“31:15:13 ‘10 0.11 mmposltion of his inmmuting treatise on
“Le: Inscriptions vies Mince d’Or (011311011. 1832) The numerous
gala—mines, worked until {he Mlele Ages, were reached by a route
a little above Kubbﬁn leadlng through 1119 extensive Wédi “0151111.
Grnn‘lte mortam and 1:11an and other articles used In {The Hutch for
gold are still to he mean, especially in the WIizh' Klmwamb. Die»
dorus (III. 12—14) gives a detailed account oral-1e working (11’ the
men! by convicts. -

3.1111111111211311 Upper Egyyi. I I: 21
Page-396
322
' 32. From Dakkah to Abu-Simhel.

Comp. ﬂu: Map, 19. .304. K
97 M. ~ Aheve Dalsheh the Nile expands. At (3 M.) Kort},

E?! a}; .h 2 on the W. bank, are the ruins of a small
temple of the Roman perleé, dedicated to Isis and Heme. The
name of Tntmes III. appears here on some blocks built into the
wells. Straight in front of us rises an isolated mountain. The is-
lnnd. of Der-‘39- (3 M. from Korli), which we page on on: righti is the
(‘1 (E Q a .
ancient Takampso, hierog. ( £1) Ta-kem-sa (600),

0 ‘ {I

descrihell by Herodotus (II. 29). Here ended the territory of 12
schoinoi above Elephantine belonging to Isis of I’hilse, at“ which
mention is made on the stele of Phil-artiste! in the temple—court at
Phﬂn (comp. Ft 300}

On the W. bank, opposite a (1th menntaln-penh; lies the Tamils
of Ofedtnah, also called Temple of Mahamlmh, after the village of
Maharaltsh, which lies a little higher up on the E. hank. Dating
from the Roman period, its Greek and demotic inscriytions Show it
to have been {indicated to Serapis and leis. 5 consisted of 1m ens
trancenhell (new destroyed) angronehed by a broacl ﬂight of 14 steps"
and or“ a main colonnaded building, 40 ft. long and 60 ft. bread.
Part of the walls has fallen; but 3 columns to the right and. {2 to the
left of the entrance still stand, begides 8 columns in the interion
In the innermost corn-hrF to the right, are traces of a Staircase!
leading to the roof. A well connects this temple with a smaller
square structure to the 1]., on which is a curious representation:
beneath a. ﬂg»true (lapaauxcz’nwoc, whence the Greek name of the
place, which was perhaps named Pcnubs in early Egyptian antiw
qulty} sits a goddess with caw‘a horns (Isimﬁather), before when: is
a hay with a jug in his hands; above are three other gods. To the
left of this scene is Thoth with the ell; beneath is Isis.

The route now lies between monotonous hills, At Scythe}: we
reach the boundary between thi Kenﬁe anti the Wtizii 62—94me
which extends to lbrim. At Mehenda‘, on the W. bank, are the ruins
of a Roman settlement. The mountains, especially on the E, be-
come higher. At Mcdik is a picturesque group of hills with groves
of palms. The river makes a wide bend to the W., and we soon
come in sight of the temple of Sebﬂ’ah, 27 M. from Dekkeh.

The Temple of swank. - Es-Seba'a}: or Sebﬁ'ah (the lions) or
want Seba‘ah it the site cf a temple dedicated toAmrnon and Ptah by
Ramses 11., and constructed like the temple at Gert‘ Harlem, yanly by
excavation in the tech, partly by building. The name is epyarenuy
derived. from the avenue of Liam or Sphinzee in front of the temple.
Eight of these lions with human faces are supposed to hue been ranged
m: each side, though only the two ﬁrst have retailintlthelr heads. A

in hierog.
Page-397
TEMPLE or snsr‘mn, 32. Ram. 323

few without heads lie behind. Beside the two ﬁrst are two colossal
stames of Ramses IL, 5.01/2 ft. high, placsd against pillars, bearing
the cartouclras of lbs king, ‘beloved of Hsrmachls and may on t-hs
right, and ‘neloved of Ammonwka and Ptah’, on the 15ft. The king‘s
name appears on the girdles of both ﬁgures and on the chests
or“ the sphimres. Statues of the king, probably four in number [now
destroyed), also stood in from} of the pylon, which is 32 ft. high
and 42 ft. broad. 0n the back of one Of these statues in is recorded
than the king arecisd ibis noble pillar in I’d-Amen (apparently the
holy name of the temple) in memory of his father Ammomlla and
adorned it with costly gems. 0n the outsialo of the pylon, as in
various other Egyptian temples, are two colossal ﬁgures, which,
however, are difﬁcult to identify owing to the weatbsrworn state
or" the sandstone, of which the temple is built. On tbs right the
king holds eight fees by lbs hair, menacing them with his weapon
while they raise their hands in suppliwtion: ‘he smites the great
times of all lands”, The god Harmachis hands him the sworxl of
Viciory. To the left is a similar scene, in presence of Amman-Ra,
whe promisas lo the king victory over all alien lands. The large
fore-court, which we now enter, is (35 ft. squara. The interior is
very interesting. To the right and left are corridors, sack with 5
Dsiris—gillars supporting an architrave. 0n the left (SJ side the
roof of slabs is still extent, but an the N. side- it is wanting, so that
the drift»sand has found entrance and now covers a. considerable
garlic-n of the court. M: the my of lllﬁ back of the nylon occur the
varying cartouches of Ramses IL, and beneath the carnice his name
oacurs again, in anaglyphic characters. On the left {5.) wing of the
nylon, the king presents a Sphinx to Amman—Ra and Much, tn the
right. he offers bread to Harmachls and .l'usfis. Rouné the ccurt in
the row nearest the ground appears a. procession of the childrsn of

the king, each with the name syyended, the sons bearing fans 3,,

the daughters bearing sistra 3 There are two series, both be—

ginning on the W. or back-wall of ths court and. running resysctively
to the right ané 18ft frczn the W. entrance to the main temple. On
the W. wall, to the right of the templemdoor, are 19 men {mostly
concealed by the sand), on the N. wall 40 men and. 8 weman, and
on ﬁne E. wall, to the ll. of the entrance to 1319 cour‘l 27 women,
32$. in this series {)9 sans and 3:5 daughters. 0n the W, wall to the
left of tha temple-door are 1‘3 men and ‘20 woman, on the S. wall
33 men and 1‘2 women, ale. [’32 sons and "‘2. daughters. If the
names are not repeated, 33 at Medina: Hahn, Abydos, am, 111
sons and G7 {taught/ears are thus attributed to Ramses tlia Great.
w— The following room is the ﬁrst in the ronkwlrswn portion of
the templs. The examination cf this and the following rooms

r.-,::=2’1ié
Page-398
324 mm 32. 533613. From Daisies}:

is ranﬂeratl tlifﬂcnlt by the accumulations of sand. Th3 ﬁrst room
wmsined six large and six small pillars, the former being meant
“mapper: tbs central beams. Tbs {allowing narrow room is ad-
joined by two aldewchambers and tines ethor chambsrs in the
hackuwall. In this room appears Ramses II. worshipping and we»
sensing (ﬂaring: to various deities. Under a canopy are Your goth}.
The foremost is Fish, bare—headed 1nd in his usual mummy—form,

with 1 % ma 3.146 is named the) Plain of King Ramses in Pa-

amon. Then, as at Dakkeh, follows the seated ﬁgure of a sscond
Ptah, warning as a headdress the bull’s horns with twe feathers

between them g This Praia is described as ‘lofty with the two

{embers and the horns". Next is a. famale ﬁgure with 6.115 moon-disc
(perhaps Rat—tail), and ﬁnally comes lit-choir, goddess of (he soutbam
Nehat (sycamore tree), with horns tux-sea uywards enclosing two
feathers and the sun-disc. The colouring of the sacriﬁcial scenes in
the sidswchambers is wellmpmserved; and this is still more the case
in me adytum, the central of the three chambers at the back. Both
to the right and left in this worn the king is represented sacriﬁcing
bafure a. richly adorned dhahabiyeh. The dha‘nabiyah on the right has
theirawk‘shemi ufHammchis is its emblem, than; on the ieft this 1am“;
head of Khnumea. Both static} on ornamented rabies. On the left
the king is oﬁ‘ering incense above an altar, an the right he is otter-
ing ﬂowers. A large fan is borne beside him, and behind are starr-
dards with the 1:62:65 of the two gods and of the king. m The cen—
tral picture exhibits EhnmmRs. seated in a boat beneath a canopy,
with the kneeling king to the left and three cynoeep‘nali $0 the
right. Baueath is a recess, in which the outlines of three gods may
still be maria our, aithough a ﬁgure of St. Peiar, with a 11819 und 3
large key7 has been yaintaﬁ over {harm The king; who apyaurs on
the right and left, with ﬁowarﬂ, has now the appearance of casting
them :0 tbs saint. Beneath is an inscription, running both to the
right and to the left and extending an to the siée walls: ”The living
Horwlia, the strong, the halavcd of Mn, lord of the festivals, like his
facher l’tah, king of both lands, Ramses the Great, he has made it
in memory of his father Amman-Ila, king of the gods’.

Beyond Sebﬁ'ah the scenery assumes a ragnlarly dessn character,
whirl: it retain: until near 13102115310. Becky isolated peaks rile on
this left, At; Mails; Eh» r'iie makes a sudden bend, and bayond thin
yoint the bamks are muse march cultivaced, while dense prim-groves
aypear on the left (14).}, with scattered huts am} mxny sﬁkiyahs.

iii/.2 M. Xomske. The weekly mail—steamer spends the night
here, and (3001’: touristwsteamer touches hers both on ths my up
and the way down, if the passengers mm to visit the Auras 5b
Page-399
to Abw—Si‘mbsi. nonnsnm 32mm. 325

Guarani. Emit a few years ago Knrns‘ka was the ﬁhiex‘ anxporium
ana york of shipment for the caravans crossing the desert in or from
Abu gamed, which lies 8-10 long days’ journey distant [see below}.
This mad avoided the three nppnr cataracts, which are not navigable;
when the river is low, and it aim shortened the. journey considerably
by cutting 011‘ ths windings of the Nile. Russegger, Lepsius, and
ﬁnally Gordon (1884) selected is on their way to Khargnm. A short
excursion along this desert-route, betwaen the hills, black with
iron-scale, 13 not nninmresting; or the traveller may ascena 4:" I": tun;
stamp and stony) the hill 01' Awas cl—G’wrzmi, 31mm in Kornsko. 0n
the summit is ﬁre tomb of the saint to whom the hiil owes its
name, a frequented yiigrim—Iesort. The view extends over the Nile
valley as far as Derr. A fort has rscenﬂy been greeted by the Brim

tish at Kimmko On the bank of the river is s. coffee—house

The desert route from Km-usko in (“27 M) Aim ﬂamed and Barber in
described in Lansing. I Latte” fro omEgyps and Etniopia (Mg n xxv,I Frgm
Ab“ 131mm! to Berber the hire of camels was fanned}? 6U pinsters each,
afterwards increased :3 50 and 90p Aiming the stages on _this rent a are
5-13.31; a range of sandstone hills extending, for two days' ‘ournay; Ruhr
will?! mﬁx‘i with its greenish ﬂne‘grained rocks continuing the preneding;
Bahr- Ham; and Wadi Distal), where dﬂm palms am found.’1‘ha route
intersécts the (20 Ref: by means of the Wadi es—ﬁ’ufr with a. few indiaﬁ

rubber and gun-trees, and then the and Smog/:3: by means of the WM:
Marni. The Ins! the half- way point, wntains some brackish water. “:8
oniy water met with on the entire route, anei a. few huts.1€6xtfoilowa
the wide plain of e! Muridemh, houndeu by the lofty hills ui Ab»: Shah, then
the stony bills ofAdr-r Au“) and the iniumlimm plain of Adererari which
extend; in Abu Hanna, with the low am: Fara: on the left grid the
Hebe! Moira” an the ri m. Ming-35, called by the Arabs Bail}! 5mm or
‘watera of Satan’, are requemiy senn 0:: the way. Abu .flamei! on ma Nile
is reached on the 8th or at laics‘ on the 10th tiny.

A lit tle beyoné Korusko the Nile valley trends totheN.W., so that
the N. wind which prevails in winter frequently retards navigation. On
the left bank rises a picinmsqne chain 01' hills. in this reach tra—
vellnrs have a chance of swing nroccdiies, which frequant the sand.»
banks and Say thsir eggs in the shafts of the shore. Recently. how»
ever, they have become somewhat rare. On the W. bank the
inconspicuous Tampa of’Ama‘dah, 8 M. from Korusko, caning in
sight. It lies deeply sunk in the desert-sand. while an Che opposite
bank a cultivated atriy with many trees stretches batwaen this river
am} the hills. Passengers by Cook’s steamers have an opportunity of
visiting this temple.

The Templs of ‘Amaﬂah has a very nnpretending exterior and
seems at iii-51. hardly worthy of a visit. Ya: it in in tummy of great
interest bath for scientiﬁc and nrdinary travellers as an exceilant ex—
ample of the graceful and. elegant architecture of the 18th Dyn., un—
ﬂar which it was built, Nothing is left of me from: of the entrance—
}mil axcapt the éoorway; and the structure of Niki; bricks adjoining;
tha latter indicates that the temple has been used as a mosque or
as the tam}: ofa saint. (A Mohammedan canon, removed; only a ﬂaw
years ags, was an anditional proof.) 0n thu right 31:13 4.1:? the