
Page-400
326 Route 32. 'AMﬁnAH.» 171m Dakheh

way appears Tutmes III to the left his son and suecessnr Amen-
howp II {Ono-<3» mg {)1 Ba 5111 khepcm, with the god Harmachis.

OX] the inside of 1118 [leurway is (he name cf Seti I (1912‘; Dyn)
Also in the doorway appears the praying ﬁgure of Satan, royai prince
of Rash, who according to the royal cartouche above, served under
Ramses II. The Ankchamba‘ itself consists of three rows of pillars,
arranged in three couples on each side, anti behiml is a row of
pmmeoric [9. 1‘2.) columns. The side~piﬁars on the ﬁght and left
are connected with the aids-walls. Most of the pillars exhibit the
csrzouches of Tutmes IV., distinguished from that of Tutmee III.
by the ihtee strokes signifying the plural, On the ﬁrst engaged
pillar m ﬂue left Tuimes IV. is merxcimied. as ‘baioved by 120 Ma
kau ((5) 9 MM L0, Essrtessn 11L, lord of Sekhem’, a king of
the 12th Dynesty. On the outer Ami inner sides of the two ambit
traves ever she central piliars are dedication-inscriptions by Tm-
mes IV. 0:: the N. side of the srchiirsve on the right, we read:
‘The iiving gomi god of the Emma (genuine), who defeated Ethiopia,
broughi the boundaries like him who was not aimed {Fish}, a
brave king with his award, like Mama, of a steady heart above many,
he makes the mountains quake’. On the S. side of the left architravs
are the wcrds: ‘Thoth, lord cf aivine words, tweaks to the great
cycle of genie in Pa Re {probably the home of the geds): Come.
behold the great and holy monument, carefully hewn, the divine
temple of millions of years, made by King Ra-men—khspem (Tut—
mss Eve) for his father Rat—tum, the great god, who matis him’. The
inscrigyiiom (In the other arehiiravss are similarq On She two 00—
lumns to the ieft are the names of Tutmas HI. and Amenhotep IL, :30
that the columns seem to be older than the pillars anti architrsve.

The ﬂakes, beyond. the antechamber, is broad but. shallow
(241/2 is. by (Si/’2). On the outside (21’ the ﬁoorwey here siso
Amsnhotep II. is commemorated; on the inside Seti I. is named. as

/ \
the restores {\F R emu) of this menument meant for Amman»-

Re. and Harmnchis; ami over the deer on the inside, Tutmes III.
To the right on the inside of the entrance/“wail is Tunnes In. em—
braced. by Isis, and then Amenhotep II. offering tirink-oisrings to
Amman-Rm 0n the left Thoth anti Her-But sites; the symbols of
life over Amenhmep 11. Three doors in the beehwsli of this Bakes
lead into other apartments The General one enters the Sam

which occupies the whole of the remaining length of the temple
(about 16 ft ). The door 3 to the right am} Ief t each admit into two
chambers one behind the other, the from; chamber in each case
being the larger Tutmes in styles himself ‘beloved by Humechie
and Amman—Ba} in a three-zine inssription over the door of the
sanctuary; it is therefore eviclem that the Itumpls 9f 'Amlgdah was
Page-401
20 Abu—Simbci. 'AMEDAH, 32‘ Route‘ 327

dedicated to these two deities, as is also indicaterl by the represen-
tations to the right and. left cf the entrance-dour. Above the small
door on the right. are the dedicatione of Cl‘utmes Ill. anal Amarillo-
hep H. The three apartmenm contained scenes of worshiy, canes
from the founding of the templ wand sacriﬁcial scenes. The traveller
should notice the carefully executed portraits of the three kings who
took part in the erection 0f the temple, Tutmes 1H,, Amenhotep 11.,
and Tucmhs IV.

0n the backnwull of the sanctuary is a stale of great hisrcrical
importance. At the mp is a relief of Amenhotep II. Prasanting awn
vessels of wine to Harmachis and Ammonalta; beneath is an in—
ecription of 20 lines, from the 3rd year of the reign of Amenho-
tap IL After a ﬂattering account of the king and his achievements
(repeated on a Shelia found at Ernumh and new in Vienna) the
eomplation of the temple begun by Tntmes III. is mentioned.

Line 12. ‘Behold the king adarned the house of the goé (which ha&
been erected by) his lather, King Tuimua XXL, for all the divine fathers,
built of stoneu an enduring work, with a protecting wail of brink;
amund it. The ﬂoors were of the linear acacin-wood, the gateways of
enduring stone1 with 2hr, object alcommemarating for- ever the great name a!
his father Tutmea III. in this temple. King; Amer-Jimmy II. celebrated the
festival of the laying of the foundation-stone in honour of all his 21.n-
cestors, while he dedicated to him a massive gaievlower of hard stone. in
front of the yrnieciingawall of this splendid dwelling of the gods, 3. my»
lennade roumi it of hag-é esane as a luring work, many sacriﬁcial vessels
and utensils of silver and brass, stands, altars, a. bronze caldmn, bru-
siers1 dishes, and censuru, Thamupon ilre king caused this stale to be
prepared and laced in this temple in the place where (stands) the status
02” the gran: oras, the king, and he causal to be grave]: on it the
migmy name of Amenhotey 11. in the hnnse of Phi; divina fathers, after
he returneé from the land of Upper Syria, where he ovarihrew all his
ndversuﬁes, in order to widen the boundariea of Egypt on hie ﬁrst
campaign.

Still more remarkable is the narrative at we and of this in~
scription:

"The king had returned home. with his heart full of gratitude :0 his
father Amman With his own hand he had struck down with his club
seven kings, who were in the region of the land ef Takhia. They lay
piniouexl on the {maniac}: of the royal ship, the name of which will ‘Ship
of Amenhotep 11,, maintainer of the lamiﬁ Six of that. anemia were
hanged on the walls of Thebes, and their hands the same The renniniug
enemy was can-led up the stream to Nubia, an” hanged ()n the walls 412‘
the town of Napaia, in order wr) make tho vicrnry of the king manifest
for ever smang all the tribes of the lami of lhe negroes. since he has
taken posaeneiun of the tribes of the 3., {ma turned the Miller of the 1%.,
Evan to the wide of the whole ear-ill, upon which the Hun shinaa‘ witimui
ﬂudjng any opposition, recording 1:0 the cammsnd of his father Ammon—
Ea, 10rd of the throne {if both lauds. Such things 213: King Amarillo-
tap ll. done). From arugach, mama-y of Egypt, pp. 390, 39L

Those whe ascend. to the roof of the temple will ﬁnd a memorial
of Herodotus, the ‘father of history’, not! however, inscribed by
himself, for he himself informs as ($129) that he came no farther
than Elephamlne. The worn aspect of the letters indicates that the
inscription (as follows) is of considerable antiquity.
Page-402
328 Ram 32, DEERE. From Mich

HPOAOTOE A'AlKAPNAEZOY
EIAEN KAl EQAYMA

‘Kemdctus of Hallcamussus beheld and admixed’. Beneath, in a
late:- style of writing, is the word OYAAMQS ‘not at 313’, indicating
the unauthentic character of the inscription above.

81/2 M. 331m:y on @133 E. bank, prettily situstml beneath syca-
mores and datewalms? contains mull-houses The om» brim-build—
ing is the residence of the Krishna who was formezly independent
ruler of‘Lower Nubia anti awnad a large harem. Outside the town,
about half—way to the hill, lias the mosqus of a saint. The top of
the: hill commands an attractive viaw of tho town and the Nile. New
its foot lies the small and unfoxtunaeely mush injured Rock Temple
of Derr. The vestibule, the sides of whinh were formed by the
smoothed. rocks of the hill, and which was 431/2 ft. deep by 46 ft.
broad 3'11 the open air, contained a triple row of yillumss of which the
hindmust alone is standing. This row has Osiris—ﬁgures against the
pillars (as at Medina-Hahn, p. 175, am). The twu from rows and
the gateway are new represented only by fragmsnls a few feet in
height. 0n elm back of the left sids of the gateway are some traces
of a warlike scene, with chariots am! wanders. The ﬁght sidemwall
of the vestibule was covewé with warlike representations, now much
damaged, in three rows. in the topmost row only the legs of the
ﬁgures are now left. In the second row Ramsas IL, founder of this
tampln, can be distinguished in his chariot accompanied by a. lion,
before a group of prismxers. The lowest' row showed the king
launching arrows against his ﬂeeing foes. We see the fugitives eon-
vaylng thsir wounded to the mountains, where a hardsman’s family,
surro‘lmded by than domestic animals, waitln grief an& anxiety for
their son. On the left wall also am remains of three scenes, incladw
ing one in which the) king leads two rows cf captives wHarmachls.
The third row of pillars, hewn out of the sock and still stmdjng,
hora deﬁcaﬁom from the king to variaus goth): The represenzations
on the back wall of this hull3 to the right and. left of the. «Mum-,6
into the (1an excavaterl part of the temple (lights nacassary), are
specially effective.

0:) tbs right aids the king holds by the hair some: foes, bending
in grasence of Amman—Ba, while between: the kingle legs is his
lien, here said 90 fellaw the king and to slay his enemies. This
heads 91’ the king and the god are unfortunately destroyed. To the
38ft. of this scene are two smaller ones showing the king befaze Mal:
and (Salami) before Thom. Benaaﬁh is a. row 91' the king’s clsughlm
with slstra, coxxasponding to a row of his sons, with fans, headed
by Amenhékhayeshf, on the left wall. The chief scene an the left
wall, above the king’s sons, shows the king ﬁghting against his fees
in presence 0? the hawkwhegdsd Hanmwbls3 with the lion biting than
lag of one of the foes. 1n the small adjoining 3mm;T Ramses presents

“in. the ram’s—lxeaded Khnum will: a ﬁgure of Ma, goddess of truth.
Page-403
to Abu-Simbel. ELLESIYEH. 32. Room. 329

The next. room? almost square, is entirely hewn our of the rock?
six square pillars being left in two rows in the centre. The archi-
trave above the pillars contains tho customary dedication-inscrip-
tion. 0n the right we read: “Elm living liorwﬂa, the strong lord of
but}: lands belovad by Ms, who rules Egypt and has conquered tbs;
nations, the goléwhawk, rich in years, great in victories, the king
of Uppar and. Lower Egypt, Ramses 11., has reared in memory of
his father Harmachis the Hat Ran/103m meg-amen in Pa Ra. ‘Pa
Ra’ is thus the holy name of: ilm spot and ‘lvnmple (If Ramsey! Mora-
mon' the name of the sanctuary. On the left areliitrava Amman—Ra
is mentioned insteaé of llarmachir, as lord of the throne of both
lamis, so that the temple must be regardecl as dedicated to both
dairies. On me six pillars are ﬁgnros of the king both-o Tum, Ptah,
Khnum, onti other gears. 0n the right side—wall is the boat of Harv
machis borne by 12 priests and conducied by the king; on the left
side-wall the king, in a boat, offering incense. From this chamber
a largo ﬂoor, surmounted by the winged sun-disc, loads into the
sanctuary, and doors to ﬁne. right and luff; admit to smaller apart—
ments. Four soared ﬁguras occupy the rear-wall of the sanctuary,
viz. (beginning to the left) Ptah, Amman—Ra, the king, and liar-
manhis with the hawk’s hand. They are all represented full face,
and would be difﬁcult to identify wore it not, for the inscriptions
adjoining. — Not far from the temyie is a small reckwstsle, (iodi—
cated it) 1115 king’s son Amenemizeb, with the ﬁgure of a temple.

Beyond Den the Nils valley again turns to the SW. To the
right is the island. of des Crocodiles now become morn numer-
ous, leaking from a (iibl‘ancn like 'tvrawtrunks or like lmge frogs. A
nearer View is only to be obtained by rowing on ahead ofthe dhaha—
biyoh in the felukeh or small boat. At Ellesiyeh (Er bank), also
called cdmbukmsmh, is a rook—tomb of the 18th Dynasty; On a. stale
here, dating from the 43rd year of Tutmes III, the king presents

n
offerings to Horus, lord of Mam ; $13 , and to Sui, mistress of
Abu. The wall—paintings represent the king seated between Math
and 'U'az; than offering to Horns, lord oftlie land of Klient, to Horus
of Mam, and to That}: and llatlmr.

On the W. bank, opposite Kauai, wo next see an ancient ruined
fort, Then to the right is tho verniant inland of Abu Rain, and to
the left the village of —

3 M. Ibrim. To the E. rises a considerable chain ofhills‘ and to
the W. (left) is a narrow strip of palms anti caster—oil plants, beyond.

which is the desert. 0n the W. bank, alitlle inland from the village
of Ami/ell, and hidden behind a yalm—gr vo, lies an inmraacing

'w V I
rockdomh of the reign of Ramses VI. (é O m 1" a] 7 T m), Amen

gaiwkhcgz-esh ramscs 13¢ka cm. I! belonged to P9 nu
Page-404
330 Route 32. main.

mnefer, governor ( ¢ 5
\M/V‘AA M

E; part of tbs S walk is inscribed a record of the presmtsﬁon of
lamis for the maintenance u(‘ the statues 0f the king in the town of

R i “—6 Emid, which was apysrently the name of this plant)

Q Q
or of ‘Amidah.

On the E. wall is a royal prince of Rush, standing, {an la hand, before
Ramsas VI., and annauncing to him the gift of szmi, who presumed
the adjacent statues of the king and two silver summing-vessels. In the
lawyer row, Peanut and Ta K1111, his wife, the singer of Ammon, present
an cll‘aring before thsi: Assessed relations, tbs men being rupmsantsd
abcvel the women below. These fsmlly scenes are continued on the EV
Dam of the N. Wall; shave is the worship of klarmschis, below that of
Osiris. 0n the W. part (if this 1". will and «umtiuumi on the W, wall
and half of the 5. wall are scenes relating to the worship of the dead.
Peanut appaus on his knees before a mountain, from which the head of
Hallmr, s. goddaaa 0! tbs underworld, projects among Ruins ﬂows».
Within the maintain is a chapel with a .apex‘ing moi, and in frcnt cf
the moaniaﬁm is the gnudess Ape, naming a frog in her hand. 01: the
W. wall is the) yrapsration of ﬁns mummy of tha deceasnd. and the war
ssntstirm sf tna deceassd and his wife to Osiris by Hos-mS son of Isis
Beneath, the fields of Anthem are being killed; and Harmachisi Tum, and
Khepara, seated upon a pedestal, are éeseiving homagg. On the W hall"
of the 8. wall are the balances of the dead, the entrance to the: gravl‘.‘
and the laying of she assessed in the vamn by a long train of mourning
relatii‘xns.

A littla above Anibe‘n (p. 329) a ﬁat-topped hill of some size
rises smaply item the Nile (an the El Upsn this stands the yartly
mined fort of gas: Ibrim, dating f’mm Roman times. A visit to it
is interesting. The ascent is made on the N. At the top are some
blocks with the name of Tahsrka of the 25th 13311., and a basilica
with Byzantine: capitals of granite. Kssr lhﬁm is iqientifled van‘th
the Roman Prim“: Puma or Premis, a. fortress stormed by Petronius
(p. 302), who afterwards restored 1: and garrisonad it with 400 men,
with provisions for two years. At the beginning of the 10th cent
the sultan Selim placed & garrison nf Bosnisns hers, WhOBG (lass-en-
(isnts ware tisfaalmi in .1811 by 1113 ﬁlming Mnmelukas. Finally
Ibrahim Pasha captured the fortress.

In the S slope of the mmmtsin, not far above ‘ha ﬁver-bank,
am ﬁve grottoes hswn in the rock, all cf which except the most
northerly, baa: mscriytions. The ﬁrst [on the S.) shews Over the

entranced the cartouches of Tutmes 11L, heloveé by Horus, lord of
Mam i gig and by Sati, mistress of the land of Klwui‘ This

grotto belonged to Nehi . messes: of the palace and royal son
[probably only a title), and overseer of the SP lam}. Besida a much
damage& relief of Nehi presenting booty or tributa from the S land
to the king, is the inscriptio : ‘Bringing of the tribute of the S.
lands in gold, iwiyF anti ebony, by the gracious eves-sear, the mini
councillor . . . . ., the royal son. smi president of the S, land

ten) 05" the land of Wawa. 0n the
Page-405
ABU-SIMBEL. 33. Route. 331

Nshi‘. In the recess :3 the and of the csvs Tutmss Ill. sits between
ﬂux-us and Bali, lunusdiamly is the left is thus second save (about
£0 ﬂ. deep), much lass skilfully executed, in which wppear ban
muons balms Ramses. Among these are Satan, prince of Kuah
{whose name is found slsewheze in Nubia), and a number of scribes
and ofﬁcials.

The third cave, which lies .0. little higher up, also shows the
cartouche of Tuimes Ill. The recess contains the somewhat roughly
executed ﬁgures of four seated personsges; $0 the right the king
and Sati, to the left the king and. Horus, lord. of Mim— The fourth
cavs {from the S.) is the most imyorﬁant. li- belougs to Ami-.11-
lmtep IL, who appears conducted by Horus, lord of Ballard, to a
row of gods including Klmum, Sati, and Anuke. the gods 0f the
cataracts, 5nd Horus, Rather, and Heben. —— To the S. of lgasr
lbrim a fsw stalos are fcuml, one showing a victorious king in his
war—chariot.

The mountains presenily retire, leaving zoom fox a. ship of culli—
vated land. Numerous Sﬁlciyeha or water-wheels axe seen. To the
laft (E35 appears the village of Bjimmch, beside a pretéy wood.
Farther on, on She sums bank3 lies Toahfczh [Nubian “Flues Moun—
Lains’). a small plane among palms, with a. somewlmt uncivilized
population A‘ Toshkeh el—bWharb on the W. bank 7 M. from the
river, a large for as of (ﬁnishes was dsfeated with the loss cf “heir
cannon by the. British on Aug. 3rd 1889; several thousand. slain
were left on the battleﬁeld, and their weapons ana clothing were
sold by the neighbouring natives. Cook’s tourists may visit the
battle—ﬁeld. if they desire 1!.

Tbs district was next ontsr upon is very monotonous and almost
uninhabiteil; and navigation is rendered. difﬁcult by rocks. To the
left lie Gnvgundi and three shékhs’ tombs; men ihe villages of Bebfit
and che‘g. The river-bad bacomss very wide at planes. 0n the
right we catch sight of the solossi that guard the tampls of Abu—
Simbsl.

351/2 M. Abuw-Simbel, on the W. bank.

35. The Rock—Qsmples of ﬁhu-Simbsl.

Cook‘s tau-lst- steamers usually nasal? Abu Simbel in the evening of
the third day, in time to permit of a. vial» to the temyles before nigM.
Next morning they pruseed to Vv’adi Ilali'ali 011 9.116 returu- -v0yagu the?
:gain spend the night nt Abu- Sim‘nsl, stag-ting next morning at 9 or
U o clock.

The two temples of Abnwﬁimbel (Tamer M‘ {be Ear of 092517)
lie 2. shot! eiistance apart a: the foot 91' a precipitous cliff close to the
W. bank of the Nile. No other temple in Egypt produces so unex-
pectedly grand an eﬂ'eci. us the great ruck templa of Ramses 11.,
especially by moonlight, By ltsslf it. would repay the trouble of
the ascent from Pluilm. bath by the dignity of its sculytums d by
Page-406
332 Route 33. ABU—SIMBEL. Great

the gorgeously ooloured representations in the interior. Although
the smaller temple also has its attractions, end though the appro-
priate order of visiting the temples would he to proceed from the
smaller to the larger, yet Kit is probebleﬂhat the traveller will be

\

 

 

 

 

MIME-MUN
,“f. uAI'L‘ 4
. mid-nigh!"
x.» 9mm
nﬁi‘fran
aw M31"!
Jays i)?

n s n 15 n n

 

drawn by the magic charm of the great temple to visit it ﬁrst.
Boats and steamers moreover usually lend their passengers in front
of the letter.

The “Great Temple of Abu-Simbel. The olitf has been hewn
away and smoothed for a. breadth of 119 ft. and a height of nearly
JOU” ”L

‘6 ,

vim 1m: 2,
Page-407
Temple. AB‘U-SXMBEL, 33. Rank. 333

10.5 it, in order to farm the imyosing rock-facade of this temple.
At the top we see a row of ‘22 cynocsphali (some destroyscl},
which we learn from uthsr Egyytian temples to recognize as war—
shippers of tin} sunwgori. Below chess am tbs cartouches of the
king, surrounded with Umusmseryents. Then follows the sham rlum
dicasion inscription of Ramses ghe Great, which begins in the
miédle and runs in both directions; on the xighi it styles the king
‘bs‘wVBé by Harmachis’, on the left ‘belovad by Amman, king of
the gods’. Siill lower, in a recess in the centre of the ﬁempls—wnli, is
a Mil—relief statue 0f Horns {Hamachis} with the sun on his head.
and the symbois of life in his hands, while below, to the right, is

the goddess Ma, to the hit the: symhol 1 user, thus expressing she

king’s name in picture-writing. To the right and left is the king
again, presenting figures which also empress his name, and war-
shipping ths god. Below. and somewhat indistinct, are the dauble
earmuches of the king.

Our attention is most forcibly attracted to the four seated Colossi
(Pi. &, b, e, d), hswn out- ef the rock, with their backs against the
ciiif. Thai :0 the left of {$3 entrance (PI. 1)) has unfortunately been
violenlﬂy deprived of its head {uni arms; which now lie on ﬁne
ground in from. The colass'us on elm other sine of the door (PI. 6)
was restored by Seti 11. Each oi‘ those ﬁgures is not less than 65 ft.
high, their varians limbs being in proportion. In spite of the 6110:-
mous scale the genmsl street is successful, and the ccuntenancas
have a pleasant anti intelligent expression. All four xepreeent
Ramses the Giant, as is tsssiﬂed by the nationalist; on the breast
and arms 8115 between the legs. T0 the right and left of each are
standing ﬁgures, mostly of women; to the right and left of the an—
mmco, Noferiari Meri-em—mui, mum)“ of Ramsss; between @110 legs
of the injuxed colossus, prince Amenlzilchogreshf {‘Ammon in his
sword’), who is intraduced in the temple of Dar: as the oldest. son
(senses) of Ramses 1L; to the left of this colossus Tues, the king’s
mothnr. Bhsida the colossnﬂ farthest to the left are two daughters
of the king, viz. Nebtvtati, on the left, and Bani—any; on the ﬁght;
between the legs is an unnamed femaie ﬁgure. The ﬁgures at the
sides of the colossus to the extreme right? the names of which are
wnceaiesi by the sand, probably correspond to these. In 1817 Bab
zoni spent 14 days in frsaing um templa from the sand that had
drlfﬁeﬂ into it from the desert behind. Burclchardt. however, had
mentioned it pmviously. It was again laid has by Lepsius in 184
and by Mariette in 1869, but the: sand has alreacly cavered grsat
put of it to a consiéerabls depth.

Before we enter the Sample our aibention is claimed by a Greek in»
scrlyiinn which is found on the, left 12%: of the inﬂux-ed colossus, along With
various other Greek, Carian, anti .humicim hum 'yiions. It 1 m as
foliows: -— ‘
Page-408
334 3mm: 33. ABE-SIMBEL, Great

Banking éMl'n'v-m: é: ’Ehagavtivav Wumuxrlg-o

rain: 5 «ﬁgure: 0% chy W'diawﬂxm tel Séaxkoc‘

Enlwv 311.50» 5% Kipiw; Kdtu’n‘ﬁ Mvwcu 1:01am):

6M1) tildylouo; Anlwotﬁswto 1757:1399 5i 7}qu

5 put); Aampapvov ’Aumﬁl ou mi 114.1310: Ouhgau.

In English: hen Kingll’sammeﬁic us came to Elephmtiue, the com»
minions of Psammetlchua, son a! Thenkles, wrote thls‘ They came by
ship vill- Kerkis (p. 316} to where she river rises, the dlﬂ‘ereaﬂy speaking
Dechepomimzo (‘ . n foreigner, perhaps a Carina) uni Annual; awaiting;
Egyptian: Deuteraruhun, son of Amuihhzhus, and Felekus, arm of thia-
mns, wrete.

The leader of ibis company is here named Pammelikh; in a Phoe‘w
iciau inseripcien an the same spat one of the macadamia; is spoken of
as a serum ofHor, the gemml. The writers of the other Greek inscrip-
tions were partly Ioniams from Tees and Kolophon, partly Boring; from
Rhodes, 3 Sirioniau, and a. Gnu-lam.

Providing ourselves with amaze, a: still better with a mage
nesinm lamp‘ we now enter the :ockdemyle, the interim- of which,
with its still vividly coloured picmriel decorations, is no 1555 re—
markable than the exterior. The walls of the ﬁrst hall (Pl. F),
which is 58 ft. long by :54 ftu broad, are coverad all round with re—
presentations, which were ﬁrst: chisellea in the stone, lhen covered
with a’ thin matng of stucco and painted. The ceiling is supported
by eight square pillars, against which stand Osiris-ﬁgures of the
king, with the scourge and the amok in his crossed hands. The
calling itself is adorned with vulturae and the names of the king.
Above the entrance is the remarkably simgle (ledicationminscriytien,
on the right to Hexmachis, lord of the land of Khem, on the leis to
Amman—Ra, king of the gods. The pietmial scenes in this hell are
symmetrically arranged, so that those referring 60 events in the ll.
of Egypt are placwl (m the N. (fighﬁ) sidej those ('0 events in the
8., on the S. (left) side. A similar arrangement was allowed in the
exterior hall of the temple 01’ B63 el-Walli (p. 310).

On each side of the entranceewall within are reyreuentatiens,
such as are commonly found on the pylons of more recent temples;
3.5 mg. at Edfu am: Phillie. The king aims a. blow with his club at
a number of foes, whom he holds by the hair, while they raise their
hamls in supplieation. 0n the left He repmsented N. hibee, on
ihe ﬁght EL tribes, easily distinguished by their facial climacter-
istics. Hamwchis stands before the king on the. laft, marl Amman,
handing him the sword of viamry, on the right. Hovering shove
the king is a garotecting vulture. On a stand'érd behind him is the
name Ka Mich: meri ma, ‘the strong hull, beloved of the goddess
Ma‘. In his right; hand in an ostrich feather, in his left a head with
the Eugen X0, the person of the king, with the legend ‘the living
royal K3, lord of both lands in the grave, in the house of the deep'.
Beneath are iha children of tha king; 29 the right his mm? m the
left his daughters, with sisira,

We now tum m the S. will, on the left. At the top ﬁre ﬁve re-
llgioux pictures: sacriﬁcia scenes before Amman, Harmschls, the
king in the tree of life kneeling upon the symb A)
Page-409
Temple. ABU~SIMBEL 33. Route. 335

‘37 Ash, before Ptah, hefere a rem’smhaaded deity (Me.- nut-1‘,
Roving his mother), lord of Khiit, and before Apt. Beneath ere
ihzae large wariike scenes. The ﬁrst represents the king in his
chariot- at this storm of a fortress. The homes with handsome harness
are guilnping, while the king launches an arrow against the fortress.
Abeva him is the guardian vulture, and behind him are his “three
sons Ambikhopeskf‘, Ramses, and Rahiuanemif, with their shield—
beaxera in chariots. The defenders of the well—drawn fortress are
pierced. by enemy; one is failing from the walls. A hurdsmnn takes

:0 ﬂight with his bani.

Eeuide the king‘s horses are. the words, referring to the king: “The:
gooé god, sun of Amman: the advancing 10rd of the sword, protector of
Me soldiers, ahleiﬁ of the ﬁghtere, bravely kxmwing she place of his hand,
ﬁrm in his warchariet like the 10rd of Thebes, :1 lord of victory he 3153's
hundreds (if thnnsanda, one hull against numberiess (fees). he sweeps
away the canfederates, he defeats the rebels on the unmmlt of their
mountains, he penetrates inio their vaileyu like the grasshoppers. Thuu
enuaeai: them to be mt oil‘ in their dwellings. Thou destmyest their seed
with the royal sickle“.

A second picﬁure exhibits the king on foot, treading upon a
prostrate enemy3 and piercing a Syrian with a iance so that his
blood gushes forth. The king is represenieﬁ as a ymxng man of

vigorous frame, probably as a the beginning of his warlike Queen

The inecriptien runs: ‘The guud ged whu breaks in pieces the nine
trihes of the haw. who exterminatea the. lands of the N., a gamma hes-o
against the mamas, with a brave sword like Mania. He leads the land
of the negtoae to the N. land, the Amn in the land of Khani (NUhia). Ha
transplants the peopie of the Shaun to the land nf , a ., he places the lanai
01‘ Taken at the mountain-ﬂay; He ﬁne with his victories the temples
that he has built with she bousy which he wen when he overthrew the
land. of Syria, and annihilated the: land of Retennu, thrown down upun
its back'.

The third picture exhibits the triumphs: return of the hing
fmnu heme, His chariot in Precedeti by two rows of ﬂattered cap-

tives ~— blaek ami brown people franc the S: (La. Nuhinns and Sh-

dénese} — clad in skins and waxing caps of straw or made: The
king follows calmly in his chariot; his horse, nameii Nakhau em was
(Victorious in Thebes), yaees proudly along; and beneath the horse
is the king‘s lion, which accmnyanied him in battle.

The inscription in ms {aliuwaz "The living and gond god, who tamca
inc rebellious? amines the land of the 8., and annihilatea the land of the
N, A brave king with his award he drives far back those who have
crowed his bin-aura. His majesty comes to (dj mt) lands, he plauees many
in terror‘. Farther on we read. ‘He elays their chiefs, he causes the ne—
groee of V‘v’awa if: any ‘he is Iike a Name in its uprising, he (spares) not.
the Retannu'.

A large picture on the opposite (N. wall) dents with the warilko
events connected with the storming of the {amass of Kamh, on this
Orontes {Arannta‘}, with which we have already become acquainted

in the Bemeasenm (p. 161), and at Luxor, Kai-nah, and Ahydoe.
in the up er halfcf the picture the besieged fertrees is depicseei, with
the kingS hanging hie bow, attaching it on the left. The E yptim chariots
aux-round that 91‘ the king. Beneath the fortress are ihe ivisicns of the
army a! the Kheta (Hittitea) and their allies, of vyh h 0;; ﬁg skies! at
Page-410
336 Route 33. ABUSEMBEL. Great

m, the other at W men. The Egyytian chariots meet those at the
Khan mud thcir allies1 who ride three in a chariot. may of the enemy,
both Khetal and Libyans, have fallen into the water. To the extreme
right, above the blue-painteé rivar. is the king in his chariot, addressing
graciuus words to his ufﬁcers, who mum the severed hands and limbs af
the Rheta and Naharlna before him and bring lettered prisoners. A narrow
sirip below represents the chariet-ﬁghtl Beneath, la the left, is the.
sizickaded campy. into which, according to the adjoining: inanriplrion, the
enemy forced their wsy but warn repulsed by the single legion of Ammon,
commended by the king, who had been lulled into security by the false
reverts of two spies, and 21m! despatcbcd several of his regiments in
another direction. In the picture to the; right the king alts upon his
throne, among his courtiera. To the right and left of the royal parsnn is
the necuunt of an event in the ﬁll: year 01' his reign, already known to
us from the Esmessenm (p 160 It. relates that two Arabs (Sham) en—
tered the Egyptian cam , pratenéing L0 be rsiugees from the: Kheta, and
seeking service. under he Pharaoh. They stated tlml. lhc Kheta lay at
Khirabu (Eamon Le. Alcppc) m the NA of Thump, and were in terror of
the Egyptians. This information was false, and the two saies were ﬂagged
(in the lowest seem: to the right), in nrnlar, as the inmr'iytlon says, this:
they might my where ﬁlm miserable Rheta. lurked, The spies were next
brought before the king 0n his golden throne, and crass-examined, and
ﬁnally confessed that the Kheta, with numerous allies, lay behind Katesh.
The king ”rambles his gennrals, relates what the spies have tom. chiﬁes
his ofllcrs fur being so imperfectly informed, and orders the recdl of tin:
troops limt had been sent ulsuwlnere. He himself put» on his armours
allacks the enemy; siays themi and throws them full) the river.

Two pictures an the back (W) wall 01“ this‘main ﬁnal] show the king
presenting the enemies in fetters to the, grids. 0n the left are two rows
0f negroé‘s sad Nubians before Ammemﬁa, the milled image of the king,
and Mum; on the right the Asiatiés (amazes) before llarmacllla, Elia
ﬁgure {if the king, and u lion-headed goddvaa (Sr-kiwi), The adjoining in-
scription runs' ‘Bx‘inging of the tribute by the good god ($2. the king)
for his fashar Ra, whsn he came mm of the land Kheta, annihilating the
rebellious lands and smiling the: enemies in their dwellings, with silver,
gold, khesbct (laplsulwulil, mafck {malachita}, and prcnians stones. as
the conquest of every land had been commander} him‘. Between the two
last plilu‘s in lllia hail is a stale of the 35th year Of Ramses IL, on which,
beneath a Mile!‘ is a long clearer: in favour of King Rams“, issued by
the grid Pm]: Tatum-n. This decree was repeated almost word for woré
by Ramses III. on the pylun of the temple at‘ Medinet Habu.

The other chambers of this tampla are less interasting, am}
ﬁlmir Examination is rendereé troublesoma by the swarms of hats
that ll;V against tha lights. They contain only the usual scenes of
offerings, most at“ them unﬁnished. As the amompmylng plan
{1). 332) shows, two parallel chambers (PL 0, N) run 05 from. the
N. sides of the main hall, while {mm the and» of tlm back wall lead
two oblique passages (Pl, K. G), from each of which run two parallel
chambers {PL L, M, and PI. H, I). Rmmd the walls of these latter
chambers run stone benches, less than 3 ft. high. In the S.W.
chanbe: (Pl. 1) is the yictum of an altar with a hierutic inscriyw
tion. Directly behind the main lull {PL F) is a smaller 213119}. E;
36 ft. broad, 26ft. deep), with fan: pillars. 0n the N. and S. walls
are deplctw the boats with the shrines of Hal-mums and Amman,
borne in sash (1530 by ‘20 priests. Three doors lard hence to a long
narrcw dumber (PL 8), at the bsck of which are three 260696118
(Pl. A, C, D). In the central recess, the sanctuary stands an altar,
Page-411
Temple, ABU—SJMBEL. 33‘ Route. 337

behind which are paintea four ﬁgures, viz. Ptah (t0 she left), Am-
mon in blue, King Ramses, and Harmachis. No one should. omit
to enjoy the mysterious affect of the inteﬂor ViB‘W of this temple,
with its eight osiris»stames, as seen by the Light; of mrches or u
magnesium—lamp.

We now climb over fallen stones and heaps of sand to the smaller
tempts, which Has a little to the N.

Tbs ‘Smaller Rock Temple of Abnnsimbel lies close to the river.
Tho cliff has hum baen smoothed for a 'bmaalt'h of 99 ft. ta make
room for the facade at“ this attractive temple of Rather, which in
modest contrast to Ramses’s huge monument, will not fail to pm—
c‘mca a satisfactory impression. The six statues on the facade do
not. project boidly like the colossi of the goat tsmple, but stand. in
niches supportmi on projecting gviuara. However it; is no: only the
king that is here repzesentad; to the right and left of him stand
female ﬁgures equally large in which we recognize his tomcat No—
ferlcm' Mcrimmut. The latter holds a sistmm in hm- hand anti wears
a. double headdress with horns twisted round a dine, such as is worn
by Rather, goééess of love, whese representative the queen is. The
ﬁgures at the corners represent Ramses again; on the left in his
usual form with. a dagger in mg ginﬂra7 and on the right as & (lei-
ﬂed Ring; with a crown consisting of the: ﬁouble feather swinging;

from the sun, and the twisted hams . Besides the six co-

1035i share are a numbax‘ef much smaller statues of the chiiﬂxen of
che king and queen. Beside the colossi on the right and left of the
door are the two games: Eons of tha king, viz. (on. the right] Ameniti-
klwpesh/‘(Ammon in his swam) and (on she left) Rahiuammif (Ra at
his left handﬁ beside the outer colossi are the princes Meﬁium
(right) andMarim (left); and besiﬁe each of the 6010551 of the queen
are statues a! the yrineasses Meritamon (right) andHcmuam (left),
with sistxa in their hands. The ﬁrst and third yillars on the right
bear interesting insariptions: "Ha {the king} has umde the temple

in an excavatien ( Him) in the mountain, in everlasting
QM

A
work, in the land of Kbmt’ g , ‘Frontierwland’or‘Bow~!and‘,

and "His Majesty has commanded to make a temple in the land of
Khent, in an Bxcavation in the mountain; new: was such a thing
time before A narrow portal admits to ﬁlm mullahs, which to judge
from a. relief am} inscriptimn beside the door, was (iediu rated also to
Amman and a Horus (em heb).

The Main Bali is practically the only one in this templu, as the
rooms behimi am mem‘y its deyandencies. It is 34 ft. daep and
27 {L broad, ami has six piilars 1n twa rows, each decorated with
she head 01' Hacker with the cow 2 ears «”A, and bearing the aar—

BARnanns Upper Egypt T2
Page-412
338 Rants 33. ABU—SIMEEL. Smaller

tone-hes of Ramses II, 111111 his queen Nefemrir On the are/211131119
above is the inscription (to the lefe): ‘The living and gone god
punishes the Hanna (Nubia-ms), conquers the land of Nehesi, writes
the S. 13min, pleughs the N. lands. King Ramses and his great

consort Nefertari Mar-enmmut, they have made the temple on the
{\J‘. W
wwm T15 ub’ (the name of the moun-
W

i
tsin of Ahn-Simbeg. 0n the right, ‘ihe living ami goed god, great
in terror, ihe brave lien, lord of the sword, has overcome the re-
bellious landsﬁetc.

The pictures on the E. well (entrance-wall) of 11:33 hell resemble
those in the great temple; to the left, the king, before Horns who
hands him the sword of ﬁshery, seizes an overthrown Tehennu (N.
tribesmsn) ghy the hair to slay him, a; the right standing before
Amazon, he siays a negro. The legends are almost word for ward the
same as inose on the erehiirave. But in both she pictures in this
temple, there appears behind the king the form of his censors No-
fertari, whip is named the Efprst iwﬁ, the great princess, of every
grace in her heart, the beloved palm, mistress of both lands, he—
icved of the king, end united with the ruler. Several portraits on
the pillars {to the right) show her to have been of great beauty.
She is represented wearing the funwrown, the disc and horn crown,
and the serpent-diadem, holding in her right hand a sistrum with
the head of Esther, and a ﬂower—stem in her left.

011 the S. wall the king appears between the dei‘ yies Home, lord
A:
of Maﬁa km, and Seth, who hear long reached

wﬁ

sieves, with the notches for the years, and the symbols of eternity
Here aisn appears Rather with a harp, generally called miseress of

holy mountain

{2:3 V
Abshelc {LY} , which perhaps was s name for Aim-Sim»

C3

be}. Three doors lead hence into a narrow apartment, which con-
tains a picture of the queen between Isis and Esther. (in each side
of this room is a recess, and. ansthsr at the back. In the last is a.
remarkable ﬁgure of Hathor standing in a temple, with a. human
head anti above it a cow’s hand with horns surmounten by the dire
am} two fans. The king stands outside the temple, oﬂering ﬂowers.

To the N, of She small temple engl still on the smoothed part of
the cliff, we observe a tablet on which a prince of Knah, Ani by
name, a man of Khinensn, appears with the fan amt princely mi!
before Ramses the Great, beside it is a. ﬁnely execaiee stale, conm
mining the homage of a. grandee to the king.‘1‘o the S. a)! the great
temple is a pessege witho .. somew. hat weatherwwom stele facing the
‘N ,dsTing from the 34th year of the king. This' is more especially
interesting from em face that above, to the right of the king whn
sits beneath a canopy between we gods, appears the humane}
Page-413
Temple. ABU-SIMBEL. 33. name. 339

dnughter of the Khan: prince, followed by her father. Sincu her
name (Bamwuameferu) is enaloseé in a royal car’muche, it is
probable that she became the legal wife of Ramses. Friendly rela-
tions with the Kheta prince thlasar wera established in the 215C
yam: of the king‘s raign by ﬁlm peat») mentioned at g. 142. Bani-Illa
it is :1 small tablet 0f the general Ammhi, with the prim-,6 85:5, the
king’s mother TM, and the princess Bani-awe. Farther back (t0-
wards the E.) is another large stale, with the winged sun—disc be—
neath which Ramses the Great is shewn before Amman with the
double crown, before Harmnchis (Her uklauti, Horus of the two

horizons , and “before Horns}y lord oflzl'a<1 W, the great
\

god. In the following ‘23—lina inscription the king, who spraads
abmarl fear and terror, annihilated tlm land of KuSh, and subdued
the land of ﬁbula, is wmpared to the gods Horus, Manta, and Seth.

Immediately w the left of this passage 3 ruck—chamber: was dis«
covered in 18155 by a party of travellers including Miss Amelia
B. Edwards, rim well-known writer, who has dascribed it in her
interesting Thousand Mike w) 1711: Nile. The ﬁrs: chamber? 555 ft‘
deep, is adjoinad by another rock—cave? 15 ft. deal» and 25 f1.
broad. This little Temple was dedicated by Ramses to Thoth and
Earmachis, the former of whom is here called. lord cf Khmmm
(39111141310115 Magus) in Amonhari (perhaps a name for Alvin-Sim»
1321). Bell) gods are 19111959111311 in golden 13020111811 dhahnbayehs,
before which the king stands worshipping (to the left the boat of
Thanh, to lbs right that of Ammon-Iia}. The name of Userresen 11.

Q Q (a Pa-kha-hhepew {1‘21}; Dyn. ), a king celebrated in Nubia,

1.
is also fauna here‘ The theory that this was tbs library of the king,
of which Thot‘n was president, is unfounded. Still farther W the, left
are a number of steles incised in the rock, some of which are diffi—
cult my much: 01115 of them dates from Seti II. The farthest w the
left is a dnuble stale of ﬁre 381k year of Ramses KL, inscribed by a
prince of Kirsh named Setau.

34. From Aha-311111161 to the 886101111 Cataract.

Comp. the “up 9. 304.

38% M .About 3 11.310133 Abquimbel mm- Ferarg on the E.
bank is a small rock—temple, dating from the reign of King Hams
(Her em hell), ﬁhe last- king of the 18:11 Dynas1y. T11’ 115 trample winch
faces the W was 011116 1151111 as a Christian church; a ﬁgure of Christ
may ha seen on the ceiling and one of SL George on the wall of the
main chamber. The structure is alsu somatims called the Temple
cf Gabe! Adele}; {Champollion}, and sometimes the Temple of Abu—
Imdah {Prokasclx}, aftsr a villsga lying farther to the 8. The main
clumlwr (25 ft. square, £0 ft. high) is adjoined an eachfsidal; and

522’“
Page-414
340 mm 34. ADDEH. From Abu-Simbd

S.) by a smaller side—mom, while at the bask seven} steps lead into
a third room, the calla. The {out clustered columns which support
the ceiling of the main chambe: recall the pretenberis columns of
Benihasan (1:12). A stem) bench runs round the walls. 0:: the
W. wall is Alluke suckling the infant King Horus, with thewsrds:
‘I am thy mother, I give thee milk, it brings to thee peaceful life,
youth for thy limbs and strength for my arms! Beside he: stands
che mm’ﬂ—lmadad Klumun. lord of the fresh water in Tu-ab. On the
N. wall (left) King Horus appears befoxa the ibisﬂieaded Thom and
foam diﬁsrem forms of the gall Horus, viz. as lord of Mini, 0! Be-
heni, of Bek, anal of Malia » all names of placas in Nubia. Over
the «loci into tlm left siéeuchambar is the curtounhe of the king,
‘beloved of AmmonmRa and of Thcth’. 0n the N. wall the king is
led by the hand by Seth, with the 355’s head and the god Hows,
wick the symbol 0f life. Some of the pictures are now searcely re-
cagnizzble. 0n the W. wall3 m the rigid of the murmurs, is the
king before Thom, who promises him strength; health, and Vicim’y.
The two side—rooms have neither pictures nor sculptures.

The Saucer: foxtrsss of Addeh (W. hank), somelimas called.
Shalaui, is nameﬁ Mashalsit by Champollien. ln the mountains to
2M 8. of it are some almost inaccessible steles and. a rock—03%,
which is Willa! than it: is (leap. The cave belonged to ﬁlm scribe
Pa—uar, prince of Rush and president of the S. lands, fan—bearer st
the king’s left hand. Two-thirds of it are occupied by a braken
seated ﬁgure of a god. 013 the inner side of the entrance is the
kneeling ﬁgure of Paﬂuar before Anuke, mistress of Amcnhs‘d.
0n the walls we see one of the suuwworshipping kings (p ‘23), viz.

King Ai<®$$§§éw>

gp‘llgl‘llclll}

King Horus, with sacriﬁcial vessels before Ammon,Ptal1, and
three (lifl’erens forms of Horus. Then prince fa—uar appears again

before Anubis, Sabek, sml King Ra km Ina <6 8 LE)

sen XII. (11%}: Dyn.). Pm of tin: inscription with tbs name ofAm»
men is dafaced.

0n the rocky slope to the right of the entrance to the grotto is
a proskynema dedicated. to the gods of the district, by Kaza, son
of a Tutmes.

The bill of Shstaui is the 1351. spur on ﬁlm E. bulk of law ranga
02‘ hills running close to the Nile from Mink, and piesanting some
curious pyramidal formuﬁcns. At this point the chain bends east-
wards towards the desert. 0n the W. bank, however, the river is
still skirted by hills for a short. distance farthm. 0:: Ellis bank lias
Farm, probably the Phﬁmria of Pliny, round which are numarous

Ba khepzm M m5!

 

Nelcra (13‘ mm Ziﬂk «as, the piedecassor

 

Usarte—
Page-415
to 113 520011117142.htm! wim 11.11.11.111. 31.11%“. 841

Roman 151111111111 11m} ﬁiiukpmres. Farther to the; S, 1111 $1111 111111111 bunk,
abova the iﬁlana of Kargém is the village of Akaheh, wick a few 56-
pulchml vaults 9.115; 11 51119.1} temple. in which Ramses II. warships
the god Amman in Pa—Ramc-rma as well as his own deiﬁad person.
Opposite Sane}; (E. bank), He the ruins of a walled villaga, a little
bayond which. new Dilm-reh (E. bank), occurs a ﬁne Miran-grove.
Above Eahkeh (E11111) are the tombs of the shékhs “011132 and
‘A11.Wa 116111. 313119 the iskand ofDabmr, with a village of the earua
name on the E bank, and finally reach Wsdi 5111111111, consisting of
several ssthlaments. 8111i named after a kind of grass: {1111115111} which
is here common The praseut military 5111111011 and ﬂapping—place
of £1111 111155111315an is named Arxkish. A pormanant garrison has been
stationed Mm 112111911 the 11111111 the Sﬁdfm, comigtﬁng at 33.811115 regi—
ment/s (mainly magmas) under British ofﬂcars. A11 11111111111133.1011 to
the commandant is can-verdant and msureﬁ a friendly welcoma. A
railway, mmiructeﬁ :or military 1111111051111 111 avoiﬂ. the 1191101111 1m—
tanct, exiamﬁwl 51mm?» {:1 (3?) M )1 S-a-ras ’11) M from Sammh but
it 21213 23611115111111} 11111111131111 by the deniehes 1111.1] 9.1111111111111101»
only to (23 M. )1 Sigajak {trains start on Mon. and Thurs. 1&1; 8 a 111.,
returning the same day at 4 11,111.; fans 117.,- gpecial trains may 1113
obtained fer {'25.}. The viiiage of dei Ealfxzh prayer lies 11/4 M.
farther to 111:1 S. 011 the: bunk opposite Wﬁdi 1111111111 the ramains of
two temples were feumi closes together, and were described by
Champollion. The North Tmplc, now no longer visible and either
antirely vieslrroyed or buried, was dedicated to Khem-Ammon in
Be‘mm'r (Wédi 1111111111) It contained pillars with 13111 11311111 of Amen-
310613;) 11 and. else a Mela of Ramses I (now' 111 the Lnuvre); and.
in the saﬁczuary was found a stale 01' Usunesen 1. (1‘2. 9371.): with
a list of cmquerad tribes (new in 111016111111) The Southern Temple
has reccmiy been exhumad by 001. Smith , 11ml may ha rammi—
ently visit 11 connection with the excursion to the 109113 of Abu—
321‘ (see 5510‘”): as it 2255 an the way 111101111, “1/4 hr. to the S. of H111
ferry. It was dedicawd by’i‘utmes II. and 1311111103111. tn the Kama
of Behmi. T11 Mm 11111 of the entrance is a 51916 of 11m 231:] year of
Tutmas 111., in which the Victoria? of that king over me Femkhu
[Phwnicians], Retezmu, 311(1'1‘11110111111 are mentioned. The commns
11nd pillars are covered with well—preserved sculpturos.

Some alterations require to be made in the dbahabiye‘h to pre—
pare it for ﬁlm returnmvoyuge dawnstream. T118 long yard. is 1111—
shipped and stowed on the top of the cab1n.thu large iatsen— sail ls
replaced :1; 11 5111111181 arm, and the pianks of the toreudeck are 111--
moved to make. mum 1‘er rowing-thwarts. Whim ﬁrm Milors are
YEms cugageﬂ 12m Ham‘sie; 811011111 not omit to ‘4 ii ﬂu; ﬂecamd 0%
211mm. anti m 11.511511 the rc—uka 11f Ahmsir 1W. bank} which 1115 3' ba
101111111111 111 1—2 hrs. The fatter 111% only command ‘11:; best View of
the broad and rushing cataract , but also 211111113 4M vinimr 111 see
far to the S. “The expeﬂizion may be made either by b at p
Page-416
342 Route 34, wim EALFAH.

the island of Kem‘sah, at the beginning of the “pins? or more safely
on lam} by donkey or {he quicker ami more agreeable came}. Tra—
vellers by {and must cross to the opposite bank. The British com-
mandant will on request kindly teleyhone to the fort opposite to
have the necessary camels in reaéiness; but donkeys must be taken
from the E. bank. The route at ﬁrst skim the stream, passing the
above-mentioned temple of Horus of Baheni, then turns inland
town-415 the mountain ridge, ﬁnally ascending with considerable
steepness to a plateau, whnre the ﬁoxlkeys or camels are left; The
summit of the hill is reaehad on foot in nhmxt 5 min. more after a
somewhat steep climb. A rock on the shop hears the names of some
famous travellers, including that of Champollion. The view of the
broken antamct, which extends 2'0: 5 LL, is very interesting. The
stream here forces its way through ferreous sandstone, not through
granite as at Assuan. The boulders at the foot of the rock are
coated with dark fen-eons Nile mud. The View southwards to the
hint: hills of New Iﬁongoiah is not less attractive, and kindles the
desire to visiz Upper Nubia, which contains numerous moat inter—
esting antiquities between this mini and Khargﬁm. We think of
the temples of Sold; and Sushi, the temples and pyramids of Gehet
Barkal, the ﬁfteen yyramids of Nari, Meraé with its gran? m" pyw
tamids, and the temples of Nagah and el—Megaurm. All these, how»
ever, are at present forbidden regions for the mullet. A: meat he
may visit the ulcient fortreszes of Samuel: and Xnmmﬁl; situated
in the 1301.37: «rt—flagg- (belly of stones), 37 M, from Wﬁdl l‘ielfah.
These contain buildings of the 12th Dyn. arui the remains of two
wmples built by Tutmes 111.; and they are imeresﬁng also fox the
records of the height of the Nile under the 12th Dyn., which Show
that 2600 years befcre Christ the Nile rose about 25 ft“ higher than
it (was mutiny.

To visit these spots we mm the railway to (23 M.) Siyuju (2 hrs.;
see p: 341), thence promed by donkey to (12 M.) Say-ms and (10 )1: Km)»
melt. Semmh, on the opposite bank, is reached. by boat or by one of the
native rnﬂsa made of yalm-logsl The expedition from Wﬁdi Ealk‘ah and
back nukes 243 days. Permission from the military “Chm-ﬁles is nests»
any, and is somewhat unwillingly granted as Semneh lies beyond the lines.

It is much to be hoped that the time will soon came when the

way will be open as fax as Khan-slim, which fell into me hands of
the Malxdisln on Jan. TIL]! 1885 3 when Illa brave Goréan met his
death. The possession of Khartﬁm and the security not only of the
Nile-mute thither but also of the desert-route from Berber to Sun-
kim are the necessary conditions for the gradual alvilizntiou of the
Sﬁdim.
Page-417
343
35. The Wesﬁem 09.593.

Ely the term Onii (old Egypt. 9“ a 17:, Am». 2,}? Ill-wall), Copi.
w E

,r
may from law old Egypt. dmth-eak udu’mdﬁlmbexvuﬂﬂj,
a

is understand a fertile and inhabited spot in ihe midst of the desert. The
ones owe their fertility m the. springs whim: rise in them, frequemly
shermal and containing imn, sulphur, or other mineral ingredients. The
most abundant trees in the cases are the dale-palm, acacia of varinus
kinds (Aacia Nilmisa or Emulate), apricots, and other fruit-trees; the
chief graimcmps are wheat, barley, and rice, with a little (lura (Sorghum
vulgare) and. duklm (Panias‘nars‘a splash/t); and lndige, tobacco‘ and when
are: also grown (see Vol. 1., pp. 63 36.;

Seven oases are mentinned in the P nlemaie inscripliuns in line temple.

     

Q2375
at Edfu’ According m Dilmichen She 21mm of these, ~wwx Kenem, curre-
C:
sponds to the (male of el-Kllirgeb, ﬂue secOnd, V“ 26326:, to Dﬁkhel.
the third, 2;??? Abe, to Fuz‘xfrah, the ﬁlth3 the N) oasis, to Baht-33031:; the
A:
sixth, Q 35' a: Sal-hat hemam u. ‘Salt-ilcld‘, to ﬁlm raglan

 

O O O
- c:
of the. natron lakes, the seventh 3 3' QQQ Sabin! mum, in Siwah. _.

A sim ler arrangement, recugnlzacl :15 early as ‘utmes lll., divides them
into then". and Southern 011.105, the ﬁrst signifying probably Eabréynh,
:he latter Kl‘udrgsh and mum. "he two last were also united under the
name Gran! Oasis (3mm: gnaw); distinguished at tlie same time u the

.. .st ‘ § .
Outer- {pj D1534! El—warx el-kharxgeb} and the Inner 0am

{abide} 5335 El-WQl} ed-Aiakhilnh). The oasis rimming m Nari}:-

em 01m: was also called. the Small 0am {rim-4 magi), and frequently
also III—mil: el-bshncsall, because the route m it diverged at Behwcmh an the
Nile. Most travellers who wish v.0 see an oasis will be satisﬁed with a
visit to Khirgeh and perhaps also to Dﬁlhel, fur the visit it) Siwall ix:—
vnlvms a long and fatiguing journey. The. latter.> lmwever, is also de«
scribed below an account of its great historical interest.

For a visit to lbs (:ﬂeﬂ a caravan m‘ riding and sampler—camels is
neceaaary. Riding Camel: or drcmedmries travel alum: ‘28 ll. in 12 law,
or considerably more if pressed (sump. p. 75]; ordinary camels only sham
19 miles. The camels slmuld be divided inm convenient groups, and the
traveller should make aux-e that he has a. comfortable; «willie for hi5 ride.
of eighc days or more. A tent. a generous supply or“ tinned provisions,
and waler mus! else be provided. Vl'zsmr may be carried either in cash!
(benm‘lA leather skins (which, however, impart a disagreeable ﬂavour to
their cements aficr a dsy or two), ar still better in iron Golfers lined
with enamel (safaha). The services cf 5. lrustwerthy caravan-leader shoulrl
be secured by application in a cmxsular agent or other reliable authority;
uni guns, powder and shut, and a supply of money in small calm: and
Maria Theresa ihalera slmuld be providcé. The (ravelier should avoid
displaying large mum 02 money before the Arabs, and he should be strict.
in mainminixag the discipline of the caravan.
Page-418
344 Rome 3.5. si‘WAH. m imam.

1. (Denis of Jupiter Amman, new mwale.

Amthorikial. Erma, W. 9., Travels in Africa. Egypt, and Syria. from
179? k; 1738. _

Homemann (1797-1798). London 15m. '

(Mlliaud, F12, Voyage £\ Mex-0E etc. Symahl) (Nov. 1819) 23‘. 5 sun-ea
:mie. Faris 1823 seq. (Siwal: in Vol. I.) 158 plates. Pl. 11.9 43 is the
best plan of “Umm elvhédal).

W Mia’uutvlia Reine 2111a Tempe! deg Japiter Amman 18mm. Berlin 1824.
it}; atlas.

Hamill”. J.. Wanderings in North. Africa, (1855-). London 1856.

Further. 6., Das Orakel uml die Oese deg Amman. Berlin 1862.

Ruhlfs, 0,, Von Tripoli nach Alexandria; (.1889). 2 vela. Bremen 1871.
Containing :1 good plan of Siweh on a small, Male.

Relay}, 6.“ llrei Mouate in der libyschen Wiiste (1873-74). Basel 1575.

Two main mules lead. to the cash of ' wank. One. beginning at Alex-
andria. leads to the W. along the ﬁedilermuem coast vii the {AA-label
‘ gkér (Katabnlbmue Pawns) to Msdjed ear Bummn like ancient Pa.
mum, 1m), in 80-90 Ma‘s, travel spreati over lU—ii days? and there turning
in the S. reaches Small in B {says m- 6“! hrs. mare. This wan Alexauaer
the Grant‘s route, and was also taken by Browne (see above) in 1792. ()1-
the traveller may follow the Mediterranean coast for Al days more to the
{Mabel el-Keéir (Kalalmthmus Major) near 32‘" cl-Kor, and theretumin 8.,
reach Siwal: in 5 days m: 61 hrs. more. This was Minululi‘s route in 820.
The second main route, starting from forum}: or from Cairo. leads viz}
the matron Cenveme t1; Siwab, in shawl l3 days {Hornexumm 1733), while
the ﬂzst route takes 15-”0 days. ﬁne mule is usually taken for the,
jnuruay nut, the other for the :etum. Fr. i'mlla'aud reamed :3in in. 18:19
fro the Feydm in 16 days, via Ray/(593‘ 21- ﬁreﬂy, and elrxamla, but the
hoaaiie natives: permitted him to pay but 02m viuit in; the moamentn. In
the following year (1820) Mohammad 'Ali desyetelmd a military force with
artillczy which reduced the hitherto inde (:mlent Siwah under the autho-
rity at tlne paﬂhﬂ. of Egypt. Draoettz‘ and chti aceom nnied this expedition,
Gar'hm’d Kohl/”a has lwic vlaited the 038i. , in 136.}; on his journey from
Tripoli to Alexandria; and in Feb. 1875: in the course 01‘ an expedition
undertaker. alum; with Jordan, gum. and A 'ewzm, at the expense cf 1:;—
mu‘il Paella. This expeziitian aim-tin Item as proceeded viii. Fag-6M
I, then struck W. 19 27040, where they turned to llae 14., reach-
ln it days. The return WM made vii Farifrnh, Dﬁkhel, and
gel: on the Nile. Unfortunately ihig easily expedition had. not. se~
cu . the servicea of an Egy‘ptologist. en?! even their photographer Re-
melé was left behind. at Diddle], m) that it has cantrlbuted little or nothing
to 0111- knowledge of the inazriplinns at Siwah. Wehuvn an me other hand
very full informalilm caneeminn the temples at el-Khﬁrge‘h from c‘amiaud,
and H. Kruger}: (1875), to which alga the photoqmpha taken by
at. Dﬁkliel and Khirgah have largely added. ' he inhabitantn
eagle of Siwalt npeak a peeuli (imam of which Minuioli has
mmmmieeted 400 Wards. Hat-060mg (11 42’} mentions that the, Ammo-
nites are colonists from Egypt anti Etklep and «peak a dialect midway
between the languzgea cf the": lanxlas. The]- unécmtand a lime Arabie‘
but their own speech is a dialect of Tammirlel, n Berber tongue, under
stood in the Atlas and eleewhcra in F. Africa.

The deity worsliippea in the temple (If the castle was a rem‘a~bea&ed
and mum‘s-horned Amman, such as appears on some Thelma monuments
{9.9. lhe N. wall of Made el Helm), and also on coins 0f the Ptolemiea.
He was enigma in have been identiﬁed with ﬂoral-(If, 'wbu was war

‘2‘ ANVVM a
J , a place» name formerly reed u Sir
E] ”W“ ‘

lamina: anti referred by Chabas to the, (win ’Gf Biwah until H Bmgsch
discovered the correct reading, Klimgnm, Bad recagnized in it Khan: (Hern-
elenpolis Hague), the capital of the 20th noun: of Uppar Egypt A: pneth
call)“ nothing is known of the Egyptian inseriptiom In the oasis of Aim

     

 

 

 

 

 

  
         

 

 

 

shipped ‘in
Page-419
Gases. siwm. 35° Route. 345

5:
mm: itsel€,we ﬁveit thename recognlzed by Dilmlchenn‘m. E ﬂ (3 QAQ @

r \
Sikhs! Anna, M. ‘ﬂeld of trees”, “ﬁeld of date-palms‘. I

The oasis am! the umclc 0f Ammoh ware celehra’iad from a. remote
antiquity. Bacchus in said to have been the ﬁrst: to consult the Dmcle;
and in the legend of Perseus anéAndromeda, the latter was said to have
been aﬁ‘ered m the sen-monster to save her country‘ ix: chedienca to a
rcapansa of this: god. Hercules prcaentcd 35mm affixing ts Amman Semiramis
consulted the oracle on her exyedition to Egypt. The law-giver Boechmvi.
(Bek-en-rmii’52‘3th 1331114801 cent 8.0.) expal‘ied the-1mm: from {he land at the»
bidding nfthe gml. Psammetikh I. enrolled the. Carians with plumes ofcock‘s
feathers in obedignce to his responea. He: dotus relates (H1, 25, 26) mm.
Cambysee sent 50,030 men to take the Ammuniteb slaves and to destroy their

male with (Em. This form: reached the city of 01:16:, also called the bland
af the Bland, after 7 days max-ch, and then vanished into space, apparently
being overwhelmed by a whirlwind. The oasis and its oracle are, how—
(with heat known from the visit of Alezcandur {he Grdai, ream-deli by Iii»-
:ioru; (XVII, 49L Quiniua ﬂurtim, anti Armin after Arissobulus. Ailey
Alexander had made funnel? master of Phceni i: by the battle of Isms,
he. marched to Egypt whia submitted willmuﬁ resistant). Desiring m
consult tha famous Ol‘aclu of Amman, ha undertook the advanturoas march
though the desert. Ambassadors from Cyrene met him with a. valuahle
gift of war-harms. His supply of Water alum: m an and after fnur days,
and ha was (mly ﬂavad from perishing by m: unaxpeuteﬁ fall of rain. The
way was pointed out to him by crowﬂ, ﬂying on the right. side of the
army. He paseeﬂ. the Bitter Lakes, than 103 amdia (about 10 Mi} farther
the so—cnlled Cits‘a: of Amman. and another day’s journey lit-might him to
the vicinity of the temple. Diadorus thus describes the place, "l‘he Am-
monlles dwell in Villages, but in the midst. of their land is 3 (33.3219. de—
fended by a triple wall. The ﬁrst (it. innermost) wall encloaes this ya-
lace 0f the ruler; the second the woman’s a:,=l:.t'l:n'seutpsj with the dwellings
0f the women and children and the palladia. of lhe place, with the temple
of this god and an: mend spring; the thin-d anclcscs the abmlu cf the
spearmen, etc A mile beyana the castle another temple cf Amman has
hem erected uuxler the shade of numerous large trees. Near it. is a spring,
calm} Spring of the Sun on amount of its peculiar propel-lien, It is warm
in the morning. cold at midday, and hot at midnight. The image of the
gad is encrusted will: emeralds and ellier gems, and gives its granular
responses in a curious way. It in canin in :5 golden hunt on the shoulﬂ
‘18?“ 09 “EM? priests, who dire: their course according in signs from the
god‘ Women and girls accompany the gad with aongs‘.

when Alexander- (tutu-ml ﬂu: lampie ht: was! hiaden welcome. by the.
ulrlaar. priest in tha name of the. god. Alexander Mcepieﬁ the welcome.
and promised to worship the gnd, if he gave him the Z rﬁship 0: the
whole earth. The king than aaked whether all the. mum! rers of hi fur
ther lmd been punishzd. The oracle replicé that no em: could aim at tho
life of him that had made him (ate. of the god}; but that the murderers
of Philip were punished

The Guild of 3mm formerly «ﬁlled aim Santart'a (after Iakander, Ale-
xander ﬁlm Great) lias‘ awarding to Jordan‘s calculations, 95 ft. below lhe
sea-level, in 1i. lat. 29° 12' and long. 25°23? E. of Greenwich. Browne.
eslimated tbs length of the. nasiu at ’1‘]: EL. its breadth at 6 Mi Bohlfs
estimate» the length from ﬁlm-Mi in the W. to Malay Yus in the E. at
about181/2H.,in a line running first NW. and SE. and heyomi Siwah SW.
and N14}, The breadth varies from a few yards f0 1% M. It in situated
on the S‘ vex-gm of the slurp sn-mlled Libyan coast-plateau. which con-
sists of limestona, anti an the 8. it is bounded by sand-hills.

Seven! Mae}: rocks are fuumi in the minis; mg. the Amelal and Diara‘
in the W., the Gabal Matdh, 1/2 H. to the N. of Siwah, the rocks ()5 Stu-val:
and Atarmé, 6M Btdi’ flamed to the 8., 83131 6656 Bra: to the SE. of the
capital. Of the numerous warm “pi-lugs (upwards of 3.0; in the oasis,
this atmngut are 911953 of Khamimk, and the. meal. famnu ‘4“ H am
Page-420
345 Route 35. SEWAE. The Wesaem

(see beinw). with a :ittle sale (, 1615 0/“)q Aim Masai: (spring a! Moses) to
the N. of Siws’h, and 'Aiia hen In] to the S. The climate is unheaiihy uniy
inwards the and of summer, when the evaporation of ihs numerous marshes
induces fevers, These marshes (sebkhah) mid largely to she difﬂcaliy
cf travelling about she oasis. The mean tempemiute is '1'?" Fshr. ~— The
oasis contains about SWJUJ date-palms; and about 3000 ten: (9000 camel-
loads) of dates M's annually exnariod to North Egypt by the Beduin iribe
of the Waledv'dls‘. The olive tree also ﬂourishes here, oranges and 19%
moms in Khmm‘suh, anti throughout the oasis grapes, pomegranates, apri-
cots. peaches, plums, and a. kind of dwarf spple. —— Live smck is not
numerous, owing to a dangerous ﬂy, about as large as a bee, whose sling
is fatal to cattle and camels. Wild pigeons abound Salt is procured
by evaporation in an sin-mat pure mm. Sal smmonisc is prepared by
artificial distillation from camels‘ duna._ Miuuioii estimaied the number
of the inhabimnts at 3000, Eollifs M 5600. The two principal tribes, the
Lifayaﬁ and the Rhu-Irbyhng both of which inelude mussel-Due sub-tribes, are
hegsile to nah other. — The annual tribute in the Egyptian government
is 10,000 Maria Theresa thalers, equal 9.0 shout 2000!. An Em tian gnu
vemo: presides over the oasis. Strangers are quartered in the ‘ 3152*. m
the K. of the castle of Siwah, near the ﬁsts-magazine and the dome of
Eidi Elimdu. small and Alter-mi, the chief towns «linseed like auxilau upon
steep rocks. lie about 3 id. gym-t. The streets of both are narrow Siwsh
belnngs to {he Lifayah and only the portion of the oasis to the SW. of
it beizmgs to the Rharbyin, including Akermi. The Lifayah are fGrbiddan
m enter Aka-mi, in consequence of their having suddenly seized the town
s‘bou‘» 40 ’Vears aga‘, though they were Afterwards repelled by the Rhu-
byin. b‘hékii Hobammed Djmﬁ‘, the richest man in the oasis, msiﬁas aﬁ
Akermi as head of the natives.

The ruins new to be found are very scanty. The Edgie-walleei castle
described by Dindorus {see p. 345-) appears mire identine with the inﬂiiy
situated Akin-mi, aisn called Shim-£15,111}. An early Egyptian structnre,
discovered here in 1858 under some modern houses by the Scouiah
have-liar James Hummus, was easily recognized as the fore—couri and
chamber of a. temple or palace. The interirxr walis were anvsreci with
hiewgiyphics, but so blackened with smoke that the king! cumushes
could not be recagnized. 1n the thickness of the wall was a nsrmw
passage, 3 ft. long and 2 ft. wide. In an adjoining street was a. culcssl}
Egyptian gate. Rahift confirmed this discovery in 1859. Passing along a
narrow. winding passage, he observed a. building with inundation-walls
of hewn stones. and to the W. of it he came upon the large ediﬁce, the
outer walls cf which are visible from outside the viilsge, while she
inner wall extends to the great square 32‘ Alter-i. A rough pansy:
admits m a. fasewonrt, 15 ft. long and 10 ft. broad. Two large Egyptian
gateways [18']; ft. high) lead to {be holy of halies. which is entirely ob-
structed by houses; the gateways man be passed only through the houses.
Eolxiis found a large num‘iler (If piciurun and insnri tiring here. and
«united some of chem by candle—light. The cells Wns ' ft. long, 185]: it,
brnad, Mid 185/: ft. high, A secres passage, 2 ft. wide, within the E. wall
communicated with me great wail of Akermi.

About. 500 paces to the S. of Akerml He ihe ruins 9f Um $12552!“
(white mother), facing the town and lying from N. 50 S. In the time aE
Cailileud and blinuloli the wins «insisted of the lefi wing of tile gait:-
way and a novnred par-clan behind. The former, which hes now ii:-
eppeured, cmnmined the representation of a. king offering is the man‘s-
headed Amman and his female compwien. The other pariion, which
3' i rimming, is 141/1 it. iimg (3i. nieces only 10% ft.) and about 25 ft.
with a passage 16% ft. wide. 0n the right and lefs sides are pro-
,a arms at" gods in saverai rows, with the nbove~mentioned “mm—headed
Amman is she chief deity. Above mess gods ma numemns vesting! lines
of liiemglyphizs «~55 an ins. ‘W wall, 53 on the E, (leﬁ)——gi which we
unfortunately possess no carries. The ceiling cousins of “use {harms
the earthquake in 1811 of ﬁve) massive “one Mocks, 523 ft. long, 5 is.
broad, and 3 {2. thick, decorated wiih vultures (the sy be) of lordship)
Page-421
Glues, SiWAH. 35. Route. 347

and stars. Curtiua states the: the ﬁgure of the god was like a novel;
wand it were emeralds 3nd other preclans stanzas. The extant remains
date from a late period; a. fragment bearing a royal cartouche apyears to
date from Haatanelma I.

Minntoli Eartha mentions the comer-stones of a Hiram Walt near
the templa; they are still to be found at tha RUE. angle. The girdle-wall
was ‘5'? paces long and {iii page!) broad. It a parently helm-.ged to ma
second temple menticned by Diodorus {see p. All), for in a pretty palm-
grove only" about 1/7 M. to the 8.14.}. of it is the Suﬁ Spring, known also
to Herodotus UVﬁ i8i). This oval syn-lug», about 110 paces in circum‘
ference. is now caﬂad'ﬁnﬁ’mﬁm The story of the peculiar properties
(if this spring, repeated by $12 the ancient writers, in virtue of which ita
tumyemtam varied a! diﬁ‘erent periods of mu day, mats upon error. For
the water has a uniferm temveratum of 731/;: Fain-q though it may some‘
times appear warmer than it really is. in the aften very cold. nights,
yhilf. at midday it may seem inmost cold in contrast to the heat of the
Burning sun.

Retire failed to ﬁnd in Siwab any conﬁrmation of the statements of
the natives, reported. by St. John, that some of tha houses mat upon
mere ancient buildings.~~~~'l‘n tlnz N. 0! Siwah is the Gabe! Matah, m- hill
ﬁf the and, a limestone hill about 150 ft. high and £800 yds. in cireum-
fcreuce, gterfm‘ﬂted with hundreds of vaults, graves, and catacombs.
Some of tho: vaults are large enough for a hundred or more corpses. All
the graves imve been rifled, and heap! of skulls and shattered alieletons
lie around. Half way u the hill, on the E. side, is a solitary tomb of
more pretennians, with its entrance adorned with pilasters. Beyend a
fore—court is a spacious snpnlchral chamber, with two aide-moms. and
adorned with a vivid green garland of vine-leaves on a blue ground. In
the. bamkgrnund an: some dcfacgd chm-lied ﬁgures. At Hated er-Rﬂm? to
the W, of Siws‘n, is another cemetery excavated in a hill, Here also are
the remains of an ancient Egyptian temple (Kagr er-Ram), 62 ft. long by
15‘]: it. broad, without any hiemglyphics. A little ta the N. of this
temple are some acuity remains of a lstz pct-ind, an the hill ‘Amariz‘n
(Two Columns}. At Bab el-Medinsli, 3 H. to the S.W. of Biwah, Rohlfs
discovered a man-Me ram, now in the museum at Berlin.—Tlm Lake of
Arakhiyah, about. 60 M. to the RW. of Siwhh, is of iittla importance.
than h the French colonel Berti» was induced by the wondarinl talks of
the rubl: to bring a boat for tbs pnrpoae of exploring it.

(in the returnV'from the) oasis to Terdneh, 9r to Ros/r .05qu (Vol.1,
p. 225), a station on the railway from Téh et-Bﬁrﬁd ta 89.13%}; elv-Dakrﬁr,
and the Nile, the traveller should not omit t0 visit the Natl-on Iona-
Itex‘ies. Leaving Siwah wajourney vii ei-Kurah (Umm sis-Switch 2 days),
ckﬂ'uiamhi el-Lihbah (Bir £95124, 3 days}. and zlwrlfdghmll (i day), anti (m
the eighth day reach the depression known as the Babr befah M73 or ‘River
without water”, which has varinus branches, ns 2.51. the Ball." eI-der to
the S , in the directicn 0f Saklg‘tnm. Zittcl and Jordan have demonstrated
that the valleys gyouped under that name of Balm halal: mil: could never
have been occupied by siﬁe channels of the Nile as was at one time. sup—
med. A somewhat «twp slows newlrsles this dept-nation from the Wadi
".n‘m (2‘0 Mt long, 5.3/4 I M brand). the district called Nari“ or Nilrt‘olits
by the Greeks, where, according to Sci-aha, Seraph was worshipped. The
Coptic name of Nth-in. was P mam pi hoaem, the Egyptian name

Kk WKEI‘AMM P5 ma mpi ham» or ‘place of
000

satt‘. It owes its name to the natron which is obtained here in great
Gunniitten by evaporation; natrnn being in fact a. guilt containln . with
52%; of common salt and 11°!“ of sulphate of audium‘ about “[0 of
carbonic natrzm. This preparation of the nah-9n is carried on at: the
cxpeuae of gcvemmenl, and constitutes an impurtant iaﬁuatry though
ssmzwhav‘. injured by the manufacture sf artiﬁcial soda. About h lu-s ta
Page-422
348 Route 35. FARZFRAH. The Westem

the E. of Widi Natrﬁn (eomp. the Map at the beginning of Vol. I.) are
{our Gopﬁc Kan-start”, a visit to which in lntereating. The mom-staring
owe their origin {9 ”marine of Alexandria (11» 394), a hermit who ﬁrst
retired to the Theban desert in 336, and afterwards, (nous m, took up
his shade in a lonuly cell in this spot. He was the invader of an units:
that won numerous disciples. The menks fast all the year rnund, except
on Sundays and between Easter and Whitsuntide. Raﬁmu mentions ﬁfty
mnnusteriun of ammtics, who numbered $3000 in nil. In the yen- 800 the
ruined mometery of St. Macarﬁu was repaired and fortiﬁed hy Mnuit‘w,
past! arch of Alexandria. The next most interesting monastery in that of
Syn-Jana built by 3. gr. he named Hanna: 0:- Johannes the dwarf. it has
50-40 monks and 3 churches. Canon and sfwrwards Tana": and Paella,
who visiteﬁ the maniatery twice, here found most valuable collections
of Syrian M53, acquired between 1840 um 1850. Thule M85, in 871
vein, nf which the oldest Are one by Enema: of Edessa (Mi AIL) and
twelve of the 6th team. included lna Theophamy and other writings of
Ensabiun ut‘ Caesarea, the Recognition“ of Clemens, & treatise against the
Manicures.“ by ﬁle: of 3mm, «:25. This monastery cantata; also an
Absiaat‘saiam cellege with a Hbi‘ﬁ??.—Théi’€ is little than“: of discovering
my mom valuable hiss. here‘ an ill except those required for the religious
ECFViGﬂ-S have ham |trmnftu'red tn tha library (If the Coutic patriarch
at Cairo)

A visit tn the remaining monasteries, of Barnum: {Coptic liturgical
M85.) and Aruba Bégbhai, with three small churches, scarcely re ya tbs
trouble. sud is not reccmmended on acwunt of the vermin. — nwrestt
iupz wuounts of these and other monuterier in the Levant are can-
tainrd in R Curztm‘r Visits in ihs. Hamster-tan in the Luvawt (London,
1549), and in Qmiremi’n‘s Mémuirea Géographiquea, Vol I. pp) Am seq.
(Paris, 1811).

  

II. The Gases e1 Bahriyeh and Fsrhfrah.

The. vim. to the: (main of Bahrtyeh (the Northern Gulls), called by
Strabn hung, ‘the Swami, and by Halt-my Jzasc‘nupm ‘ihn Sum}! 0am“,
is uf interest only to the naturalist, for its antiquities are few and un-
imparmnt. The latter include a amull Roman triumphs! arch (Caillinud,
M2266. IL P1. 39, 40, 5'12) and a. stale of tin) reign of Tutmcs XXL, besides
the scanty remain. of a» temple at Bawm (Aseherson).

Q a
The Mai: of Evita-uh, pmhahly the To all: x g or

Cow-wad of antiquity (temple of Edfn), as the latter is described as to the
KW. of Harm, the grant oasis, is of importance merely an an inter—
mediate statil‘vn between the cases of Siwah and Dﬁkhcl, or the oases of
Ballr'iyeh and Dﬁkhel. it cuntm‘ns rm antiquities, but some eatacomhs
in a ma in the W, suggut iha‘n there wag at one time 3 Christian
setslemnnt here. The oasis wh .11 has only 870 mum, has been since
1860 entirely in ﬂux hands of the Swan‘, a rigid Mohammedan seca, founded
by Malian-med Emmi of Algiers (Vol. 1‘, pl 6'!) The people are sunplcioun
of and hastile to strangers. The chief village is Sat-Mb. two days‘ jam-nay
to the W. M Slwah.

III. The (Basis of el~Kh£rgeh.

uthoritian. (‘aiﬂh’aud‘ Voyage é I‘Oasis de Thébes 1831. Herbal-m
Visit t0 the Great Oasis of the Libyan Desert, 138". Rahlfa, Drei ﬂorists
in xler libyachm Wilma, 1875, II. ngsrh, lit-ire nach tier grower: 0mm
ehKhﬁl-gem £878,

A jnurney to the oasis of el-Kﬁdrveh is much more interesting and
less difﬁcult than that to the uaais of Sn Seer Amman, and it zany ha
combined. with 9. visit to Dﬁkhnl. El-Khargeh may he reached in M
duya 5mm Anal-.3; (lhovatti, Schweinfurth). from Sailing. Girgeh‘ thﬁt
(allow: Beliﬂneb), from Rizkkit near Efﬂuent (lloskins), u: fro Ewell
Page-423
Gases. KEERGEH. 35. Route. 349

mainland; Rohlf‘s mtnru jammy}. Schﬁg, Girgah, and Esnah are the
preferable starting-paints, as they an tewns of some size where the
necessary nnmber of camels is easily obtained. About 40 1m). are re-
quirad from 50113;; or Girgell; while 51)“fo are: raqnired from Jinnah, be»
gauge the road leads chieﬂy over rocky soil, and. is therefom mum
exhausting to: the canals. Camels, water, provisions, lire-arms, etc. muat
be providad as mantiousd or: p. 543

This oasis was visited by I’ancet in 1690. by Brown in 1793‘ and in
the present century by Damian (1818), Drovettl (1832), lloakins [1811‘le2
P. W. Grey (iSdSh Rolllfs, with Zitlal, Jordan, Michal-tum, and Hamish:
(1315), am} Brngach (187153, The axceljent photographs taken by Remalé
have contributed lurgsly to our knowleége of the temple of el-Khérgeh.

The oasis of alpﬁhmrgeh (the cum, in contrast to Dikhileh. the
inner, in. farther into the desert) is named Karim in the inscrlption at
Edfu referring to the onset, while in an alner inscrlytlon in the tomb

{ 3 C: D
of an ofﬁcial of Tntmes 111. it is called the South 0am}, %
N'Vl ‘5

U! ru, in contrast to el—Bahr’iyeh, the North Casi-a. Olympindorns namas
i: gave: undid; éEurrépm, the Great Outer 0631‘s, Strabn 7‘; «90311) 55561:,
the Firs: Oasis. and Ptnlemy, the Great Oasis. It is also zefer'red tu as the
0618‘: of the Thwaid. The ancient Llama of the town wlth the temple was

‘3 a
m j @556, Mm) wriitan 1 [I , Town of the Piough, whence its
$3

gnrrlaun is mentioned in the Netitia Dignitatmn as ‘ la prima. Ahmgamm
Hibeos {mm Mnjcris‘.

Like all the cases el-Khﬁrgeh is anrronnded by a tolarubly steep
chain of crataclons limestune hills, which risen in ierrams to the knight
of 13715 fit on tho; side next the desert, and sinks clown again towards
the oasis (Kutubathmus, descent}. The oasis stretches tram N. to S fur
abnnt 90 M. (35 hrs. travel), and item B. to W‘ only 3‘2 EL {44} law).
and ita population was cstimatzd by Schwzinfurth at 6340. The natives
who phy an annual tribute 02'300 purses (5U) piastres or 1043. each), or “5001.,
in the Egyptian government, are (If a dark complexion and am far from
300:! leaking. Every summer they are sn‘bjact to an internu’ttent leveri
which is fatal to many. They speak Arabic though lhey are not pure
felliilin tram the Nile but are mixed with ma Libyan race. The oasis in
ruled by an Egyptian governs: {Hakim}. The thief tawn e ~Khdrgzh ban
shunt $000 inhabitants. 027mm; and 1:12:65, to the 8., have each about 250,
359w: 800, mm and Kai: each 100., awarding to the moderate eatlumtca
nl' Callliaud. m There are. about 150 spring? in the mania, must of them
issuing “611137 ftnm clefts in the Cretaceous marl. Seveml were discovered
by boring, and in this way the fertility of the canals wm increased. Suma
of them are warm (83%!!!” FA} and are strongly impragnatcd ith iron.
The chief wealth of the oasis censists in its date-palms, 63,033in number.

The town of el—Khhgeb lies in lat. 25" 56' N... and long. 30" 40' E.
of Grnanwich, at a. height of about 943 ft abnve the sea-lave: {Esnoh
345 ft). The chief object of interest is the temple lying a full hour tn
the NE. of the town, Immediately on quitting the brick wall that
encircle: the town, we sat) on the right the domed tombs of some Arab
sluikhs. Our route leads put some enclosed palm-groves and crosses
some dry water-courses. The mills Gf the small building like u. temple,
but ﬁentitnte a! lxleroglyphlca, which Caiﬂinurl disauvemd half-way lmv
tween the iuwn and tha large temple? seem 110w to have disappeared, as
has also a still smaller building with a sunk doorway to the S. (21’ the
temple.

The Large Temple Gf evihﬁrgch, 350 ft. long and About 60 ft. erE-d,
55 a well-preaarvad structure built of a. reddish sandstone, which Zittcl
buliavea tn have bean quarried in Lower Nubia, its and» mm: B. and W.,
with a slight inclination 19 th»: N; In from: of ﬂu: temple is a. f<xra:cox1rt
and three sncsesslve gateways at irregular distances. Eben ' a: bush
the wings of the outermost gateway are left. On the rig the
Page-424
350 Route 35. maximum. The “'qu

top of the E. aide, a space 8 it. high and 6 ft. mm, is occupied by a
lung inscription of 66 lines, 29330er bath by Csilliand and Residue. In
this inscription, which dated from the 2nd year of the emperor (lawn
lﬂll All), Julius Hamil-duo, gavel-gar of ﬁlm wig, communicalsa ma
mews: of the provincial governor [men-43v), Tibgrlm Julius Alexander, in
the complaints of the: inhabilenin aft e oasis against the illegal exwﬁon of
taxes, etc., to the eﬁ‘ect that {mum extortion is ferbidésn undo: pemnm
uxui that what. has been unjustly exacled will be restored. 011 its left
aide algal lowar down, am some shorter Greek inscriptions, One of theme,
by the general («spam-:64) Pakidam'ur, dated the 7th Heklu‘i- of the crawl-m-
Tiberius L‘laudiue, din-ems attention to a decree by the provincial governor
6mm: Virgiléua Gapﬂo, inscribed belnw. This decree warn: against pay—
ments to unauthorized extarters of money, and the-sateen the lath): will:
aware punishment, viz. aha payment. of ten times the exioﬂeﬂ sum as
penalty besides rulituﬁnn funrfuld to the victim. —Traces of an ivenue
of sphinxes exist bekween the ﬁrst and 394mm! gniewuya which mi 50“,
apue. Only a fragment of the left (SJ wing at the Mud Gummy in
standing. Some crudely executed represenealions on its inner side depics
an unnamed emperor (the autonomy is amply) bafom Ammowka, Math,
and Tum, lord of Elk {£16, el—Khﬁrgeh). The Third (Jammy, “0 i". from
the sammd, is still ancire, it is 18 ft. long uni nearly 20ft. broad.
Banwlb :he cornice appeal-u the well-known winged sun-vibe wills ihu
serpents of both lands. The lime: below has two representations on the
right side: an unknown king before Amman-Ra and Khnm, and Ellen
before Harmacliis; on the left the same: king nppaara befcra Tum, than
before Amman-Ra. U32, and Month.

The next two ﬁelds on the right and left are dcecwyeé. Then an me

right, Hearing 11. (‘I 425405 8.63.) (jg-h a gut“ a £3)! appears sluice,
d

viz. before, minor anti Tefunt, before lain an ephlhys, and before Ho
lain, and Nephthys. On the left the same king 3}) can) before Us is,
Hotel-leis, and isle, than before K311112113 and ﬁnally efore Them in Ed:
and the gods 0!“ his cycle. 0:: the i side of skis doorway Darius appears
on the la 5 with the ﬁgure 0! Ha I. tore Ammon»ﬁn, long of 116%, and on
the right {where his name is almost illegible) befmc Ammorr a, the has»
band of his mother, greaeming to him two palm-trees. Two verzical in-
scriptions on the exit from this pylon (right and left} are also nuieworﬁxy.
These refer to the emu-mentioned ,I'Jnrs'ua as ‘lhe. beloved “Ammonia,
Lord of MD, the great god, strong with the swam", and continue: ‘He
hen built the walls (um!) 01‘ good white stone; for a mesh: (dwelling) of
the god, its 3.0ch of acaeimwoud‘ covered with Asiatic brass in excellent
enduring wcrkmanshig. May (the gods) grant him innumerable festivals
on the seas of Home . The desi us on the W. sill: of the pylon are. no
longer distinguishable. Alma: Al fl. behind this thirrl gateway is the,
Fore-court, 52 f5. éeep ami 30 is. broad, the from of which he; fallen. is
contained four engaged culumxm, two at. the from cornera and Wm at the
sidce, and had also a door on each side. of which that in ﬁlm right (NJ
is still entire. This latte:- bears the cartouchee of king Helmmorheb
(Necianebus l.)a of the 90th Byn. (378—3645. 6.0.), on the right before Tum,
(m the left before Eonill. This king was ihe builder of the foreman“.
and his eat-Somme also appear on the eide-éoors in the following portal,
the archltrave 91‘ which is imperfecs. T4: the la” N'eklislwrhah a pear:
befam Pink and Sekhet, than, below. bafare Month and Dan, and nally
before Amman—Ra, Mum, and Klmum; to the righﬁ he appeaze before
Gail-la and Isis, man before Thain and Mehemaut, and ﬁnally before the
ram‘s-humdwd Amman and Mum. The gods are styled iorda of Rib
3 cf
m [g E?) or presidents (Qﬁ‘l) ol the! town. The following First
A.

Hall, will: 12 fampzﬂm columns, is believed by Brugech m be a. late
{Ramaal} restoration uf a farmer hall destroyed by an earthquake. Ha
Page-425
0W. KHKEGEH. .35. Rania. 351

deacribss it. 35 being without inscriptions or represeneations‘ ihongh
Basking repcris otherwise. In the Ni and SW. angles are two separatc
spaces with double chambers, one above the Uﬂlcl‘. The nexi room is
the xmmi remarkable. part of line texuyle, This in the Sacriﬁciaz Chaudmr,
a narrow apnximcni with n row of four columns supporiing the real,
whils {our Others are engaged in the entrance—wall. The builder was
Darius, win: is her-e. named in a necund carious)”, ‘the beloved ofAmmnn
of Bib, the strong~swordcd‘, whils: elsewhere he is usually styled ‘tlic
balﬁved of Ba and Amman“ (see bulow}. On the inside of the anti-anger
wnli, to tin: right, i116. king in slmwn kneeiing and pmseniing two vessel’s
of Wineﬁ before the ram‘s-‘nea-xieti Amman, lord of Hib, math and Month.
Two ﬁnely wrveé lines cl hieroglyphics beside this scene Mane: ‘Tnis in
Amman of 5%, the gum god. strong with the sword; mayiliey {the gods)
grant constant peaceful} life‘. Beneath is the; empty catteuahc of the king.
0n the left side the cartouche beneath a similar inscriptian is filled in
with the king‘s name; whim the, accompanying reprniantaiion allows the
king presenting wine (of the oasis) to Osiris, Horus. Isis, and Neplithys.
The highly interesting inscriptions and represenxations on the walls 05’
the narrow chamber land it a peculiar impu mice. Thug at the top, in
this left, of the S. wail is the Parsian king in an attitude 0f warahiii,
yresenting a rich oﬁ‘aring to the deities. Between him and. the node is a
long list of Dﬂ‘erings, in horizontal lines. Beneath this scene, and be-
ginning in the RE. comer, in a Soup of Praise, composed by tin: king in
honour of the sim- mi ii; in very paniheisiia: senile. This song, in
Iii} lines, was ﬁrst published after copies by Robert Hay, me cumpaniun
(ii Hawkins, and tmnaiated by S. Birch {Transactions of (he Bibi. Arch.
Sucieiy, Vol. V. Landau 1376}. then more completely by Bra soil in his
‘Reise ml; der groﬂen 0356‘ (pp. 278 sem, Plates :u'v, xxv \Vm. Un
ﬁlm E. Wan (hack—Wall) are aacriﬁcial scenea on boil} sides, corresponding
to each other, to Amman-Ra, Math; and Khunsui Ammun has the. ram'g
head like the god of the Oasis of Ammon. Towards the NW. corner of
this wail is .1. mystic inscripiiul:, with the tizla above ‘The mysteriuus
sayings ofAzmmm which an: on the tables of mulbcrr ' od,‘ This .cxl.
reign to the secret chat-miter of Amman, the pantheian 0d nftlie oasis.
Whuae oracnlar importance appears from ﬁle {1388 c ‘hia vu is heard:
but he is no; visible. in all who (irnw brcniii‘ (linef’gli). On ‘2 uorqwsts
on each side of the entrant: tn the nexi room is an. inscrip on in the
(uncalled wig-music (22:. secret) characters, (if which a. dupiicate is l’uuml
rm the outside of the SW. wali of ihe temple. This next room has [our
columns, and on each side are two si e—iooms. The builder wag again
Davina. The cemmi door in this room admiin to ﬁlm Summary, the small
rluor on this right. to another mumS which avidrntly was once (minimum
wish i‘na sanctuary, (01' the myssic representations of the two rooms, as
repomeé by ﬂanking, are parts (If um: whole. The partition-wall must
be n later addition. Thu door to tha left minim; to a staircase, leading
straighi on no a crs'pi, and ascending to the left 10 the Osiris rcoms‘
which are on the temple-roof as at Phllm, Dandem‘a, and Edfu. Up—
pouiia the last {light of Maya ii a. linely‘execuied inacripiion: ‘List of
the sacriﬁces made by King iiarlus in the golden hall for Amman of
Hib, the grass god, elmng with the swnrd‘. Another liat beneath
swinging a caialegma of the (sacriﬁcial wings from €111: varimm districts
of Egypt; at the top the Wine (If :he Oasis. Of the three Osiris
warns, the middle one contains the most interesting representations.
At Line lap of the N. wall is Osiris ‘lying (in nbier, bunwth him are four
{52“pr to the right lsia and Nephihys; in the accli n beiuw the. Dead
(tum lies on the gronna win]: his and Nephehys kneel a beside him.
The: La, :- zrr represented an anying: ‘Thon art. in ii. on: of years,
thy soul is mind to u' vex: with the scul of Ha. I am the light by day.
than art the moon at nighi‘. To the right is the bullApis, running with
ﬁlm Osiris—mummy on its hack‘ to the left is a frog (1.13.151) as the re-
;lremmtacive 0! 05 is. At the bottom is Oairia renting in the grave an
Khem of Kaptoa, w [is Kliem, Isis, anti Neplitii beside him, -- A frag-
ment of an inscription on :lze autumn of the Wi will af tn . l ghe-
Page-426
352 new 3.5. KHﬁBG-EH. The Western

side. the ﬁgure of a king) is notewurthy] from the fast that it. assigns
. Q
anathem- prﬁnomeu tn Darius, viz. Samara G a

: a Er
q ﬂy}
resembles one of the names of Ramses II. E Q “ . Lepalns

proposes to reesgnize in this the name, uni oi the builder of the inner
chambers, but 02‘ Darius 1. (521-1386 3.0.); but me this king is expressly
styled the ‘belcved of Amazon Rn, lord ()f Hit), strong with the sword‘,
he is doubtless to be identiﬁed with Darius II. who is mentioned within
the temple. Beneath, Darius, accompanied by Esther with a aistmm and
year-rings, caters to Amman 3a., lord of the thrones of but}: the lands of
Aptaum (Th-23m). 0n the outside of the N. wail of the temple is mother

/§‘ . I:
cartuuclze of Burius KM Q a Amman Ram. Whether this he-
,.

longs to another- During than that named in the other cat-touches, perhaps
Darius 1., or whether this belongs to Darius H. and the name swam to
Darius 1.. must remain nndeciﬁed.

ll.Brugsch has proved from an inscription found at Luxor (aisle.
Mauniur), of the. i’éth year of Pinozem l. (1053 11.6.), thst the oasis was
used from an early perioﬁ as a place 9? banishment. in Chrislisu times
the sebismatic Heriors‘us {435 AID.) was banished. hither (p. DU}. Christian
monks settled here, protecting themselves against the attacks of the Be—
duins from a. place at“ refuge on the top of the temple, traces of which
were seen by Hoskins.

At Iv'adumh, a little in the SE. of the great temple, are the. ruins Of
a temple of the Roman period, 9 paces long by 12 broad. It has three
dome, above the central and mere carefully built of which is the winged
auwdisc. Within the little building is found the name of the ampere:
Antnm'nur, which also occurs at {mgr ez-Zaya‘n (see belaw). He is here said
to canauct to the god the land of Run er Run with its possessions and
the W. inml with its wines. {in the outside are a. few Cnptis names,

Fully an hour to the N. of the town of Khﬁrgeh, V41“. from the
great temple, lies the extensive Christian ﬂecropols'r, resembling a city
with its regularly laid out streets, bat now utterly devastated. M thu
most cnly a few mortuary chspels are wart}: visiting. Same of the smaller
uf these may have been the manaolea of particular families, but the larger
were probably sepulcllral chapels in which religious services were held
in memory of the n‘eaﬂ. About l/ghr. to the NW. of the nearopolis is
{mgr Eusgafdil ﬁrm, an ancient Christian monastery, built. entirely of brick
except the main portal, which is of huwn stuns. To the N. of it is a.
Hypegaum, 36 it. lcng by 18 ft. bread, with three chambers (in each side.

., which elnsely

 

About 2hrs. to the S. of Khﬁrgeh is the little village of Gennﬂh, with
250 inhabitants. The houses are covered with branches of the orange—tree
and pomngmnntwtrea in time of roofs. The streets are so narrow as to
make it difﬁcult {or a in en camel to pass through them. About 1% hr.
frnm the village are the ruins of a temple, dating from the time of the
Ptolemies (linen-gems, Philopator, and. Luthyrus}, and dedicated to the
fl‘hebau triad, Ammonulla, ninth, and Khunsu. The ruins, retail; situated
an a bill, are now known as {fair Gaitah or Kagr Wali ( “wings of it,
see ﬂoskius, plates xvn-Jﬁx, uni Cailliaurl, IL xxv). About 1‘]! hr. far-
.tlnex in the picturesque ruin of Kn§r‘£$7ﬁ 3- again, A temple, enclosed by
a rough brick wall, 230 ft. long anti 88 ft. bread. The entrance is on the
5-. side. Within the well is a kind. 02‘ war! of unburnt bricks Wit.
long and 1'1 ft. broad, at the approach tn wixich are fragments oi stone
with part (if a Greek inscription. In this court is situated the temple,
13 it. {win the girdle-wall, aux”; entered Lhrougil apyiun, 2A1‘t.broud, with
the winged sun'disc, facing the S. The doorway, which is Iii/z ft. wide,
is adorned with representations of the emperor Antonin!» mulling nihﬁugs
Page-427
Owes. KEERGEH. :35. Route. 353

to the rim‘s-heideé Amman, Osiris, Isis, and Karma. According to the
Greek inscriytinn have, the. temple was dedicated to Amenebia, Le. the
Amman of 122i god ef Tkhnnemyn's, i1. Tadhnumvm ‘helongi to
Rheum“, the name a!“ the piece. This inscription relates to & rebuilding
of ﬁlm sanctuary (51716;) and of the vestibule (npo’vuod, carried out in the
Sui year (140 A3.) of the emperor Anteninus Pius (aSGzﬁig) under the
prefect Avids'm Eele‘adwua, the military commandant Sepn‘mius Mach? end
the genernl (eintegm) Paeniaa Cuepio. 'i'he celebrated rhetorieinu Arm-Ea
came to Egypt in the prefecture 0f Heliodomsk who was a famous
enter. The entrance-portal admits to the ﬁrst hell, 481/2 ft. long by 1811': ft.
bread, which is aqioined by the Sanctuary. 16 ft. by ’11]; it. A niche at the
back was prcbably intended for the stefue ci a glut To the W. at the
sanetwery is another chamber, 10 ft. long by 2”! bread. The tctil length
022' the temple was as ft,

The village 01‘3ka (34m inheb.) is only ill-a hr. to the S. of {he}: ez~
Zuyin. end Ybre. lo the S. of 8-3151; is the asserted village ofﬂakaﬁn. A
route leeds 1713 Had: (192%, with 9. gene. spring and ﬁne aate~palma and. 041m-
palms, t0 Ben's (eoﬂginhuhg 13 hrs. from Bﬁlik), situateé on e. hill, with
numerous date-palms and sun‘oueded with ﬁelds of grain {chieﬂy tiara}.
aimunding in springs. ELEM}: (100 inixah.), 3 hrs. farther. is the most
southerly point in the assist The caravan‘route leads hence in 2-3 days 0: Dar“
far. About halfway between Berys and ﬂake, but a: little to E. of the road.
lies the temgle of .0155): el-J'Ial‘ah. This temple also was once eunounéed
with a high wall of unburned bricks, furnished (m the inside with stairs
and guleries. Twc propylene stand in from of the temple which faces
the N4 the ﬂﬁt and larger of these is 1431: Ft. brand and 2331‘ ft. long.
(in the arehitrave of the portal is a Greek inscription (published by
Miliaud) of time Edith yesrhrl‘f the emperor Trajan {116 AD.) in which
the inhabiunse of Kym (alarm 121 Minna; comp. Km, the a eve-men-
tiuaud biemglyyhic name of the unsis) record the, building of this pylon,
under Marcus“ Ruﬁlo'ue Lupus, prefect 0f Egy t. {in the left wall of the
same pylon is another but hardly deciphere is Greek in riptian in which
the name évl vim recurs. Behind the prepylon Tux-enema remains of columns,
50 that a colonnaderi gallery must be nu) weed to have existed between
the ﬁrst and second. pylons, which are 1 ft. apart. The Secend Pylon,
only 13 ft. broad and £59]: ft. long, is united by a brisk wall with the
girdlewaall. The punt sculptures u 0!: it :epmﬂgnt a king Whose name
is “not legible. About 38ft. farther dick is the temple. proper, its ﬁrst
portion being a kind of Vesh‘bule, on the sides of which allow» empemr
presents offerin ’m Sarapis. Isis? and Horns. The hiemgiyphics, hows ’-
are scarcely le 18. Th vestibule, with two columns at the ant» e,
is euly 22ft. broad and 13374 ft. deep. Beyond it is a poriico with
columns, the capitals of which am much damaged. A door in the right
WV.) wall seems to have led to a. staircase. At the back cf aha partica
is a large door between two smaller ones the former leading intt; the
sanctuary which is divided into two chambers, the latter into carrixiurs.
The method of lighting the sanctuary chambers by windnws at the top of
the walls, like these in the great semple of Kama}; and the vaulted roof
should be noticcﬂ. Over the doors ap ears the winged sun-disc, and we
each side are hieroglyphiw. Tim S. (_ rick) wail ul' the temple is aiso
cuvereé with reliefs, one representing the emperoy Domitian. sacriﬁcing
i0 Hams, son of leis, and to Osiris. ‘

About 6‘0 ails {rum this temyle are the. ruins of annular noteworthy
structure, wholly nf brick, eppareetly also a. temple. The entrance is
(armed by a pointed Gothic etch, and the three folk ‘ng chambers have
(1602's sf the same form, on which {be wlngeﬂ sun-«lieu in still to be seen.
Hoskias refers this building to the Remans.

 

 

  

 
 
        

 

 

 

Beinuxs‘s Upper Egypt
Page-428
334 Route 36. DEKHEL. Tn: Western

IV; The Quiz 9f 13531151:
ﬁ.‘ ‘tyx Q ctr.

4— —e— ( \N w

Zena, is. “Plane of the Two Swords‘, probably 3 mytholcgieal allusion.
a \Q/

The Sample at gm excl-Dianna} was called I} 454:! w, (J, Sent
n c: $29

of the moon, ami i130 (BYEQ‘SCXI) I Eat fa an mess
vax ' l

M! . is, ‘Placo a! the going out of the King of the Goés’. Under the
Ito-ans the oasis was named 0am Minor and was gsrrisoned by the Ala
prime. Quadorum. The present name et-wrsln rad—deﬁnite}: means ‘ixmer oasis‘.

Ed-Dﬁkhel lies #5 days‘ journey from Fariﬁ’nh (Cnillinm‘la 30min},
5 long days’ journey from 3.55m; (Edmonssone), nné 8, or a! meet d, from
el—Khérgeh. The last-named route is described below.

The seals was visited in 1818 by Dmveiﬁ, in 1819 by Bdmonslcne.
and. in 1873 by Bomfa, wills Zine}, Jordan, and Asehsrson, sterling from
FMSbah. The ascent uuhl the pleturesqm: clill‘s of the So—callul Bab
sl-Uaitiiaud‘ on the 1331 mentioned route is very impressive,

The oasis has at prawns shout 17,000 inhsblssnts‘ II; is very rich in
dale-psalms and olive—trees, and produces wheat, barley, rim, dun, and
dnhhn, though no: sufﬁcient for its own consumgﬁon. Large Macias
{sung-ﬁrms), and fruit-frees, such as apricot and walnut trees. ﬂourish.
The chief Villages are el-Kayr, Katmai”, and Buzhhuht (ates low)‘

The rouia from el-Khﬁrgeh' is Dﬂkhel leads NWr to (5 hrs) ‘Ain
Amdr, there nuns due W. to (if)? his) deah, I! the E. extremity of
the eagle, and proceeds m {4 hrs. Balad, (41]; hrs.) Aim-ins, and (83:21:33
Hat. Finally it bends tn the N. via Rawhide}: and Buddmlu to ( hrs.)
el-Kasr, which we thus reach 18‘]; hrs. after leaving Tsnidah.

In P/l hr. after leaving eLKh‘argah we pass lbs reins of Kagr air-£451],
in 7})“. more those of gasr et-fﬂkhﬂrah and in 5‘}; hrs. more reach 4116
foot of the Gabe! Amﬁr. An ascent of 3 4 hr. hriugs us to the middle of
the rnouninin1:101:93i slung which we ﬁne for 1/2 hrs ts Kagr ‘Ac‘n Amara
Eere are the shattered remains of 3 small temple in the Greece-Egyptian
style. on which Wilkinson discovered the name Caesar. According to
Cailliaud‘s measuremenls the temple is 71119 fﬁ. long and 31 ft. broads It
consisted 6f 3 vaslibula, mil in larger ream with a smaller one behind it,
with three doors leading to three other chambers, 21m central (me being
the ndytwn (Plan in Cailliauuf‘s Voyage is Marni; H? XML 1). Inside iha
girdle-wall of the temple is n scanty spyinn with a semewhal unpleasant
make. We enntinue our journey in a meep gorge, which leads in 3}: hr.
:0 the tsp of lbs Gabe! Ath {1785 ft. above the scnwlevel). Thence the
mute leads to the W. slung the hsi ht to 5 hrs.) eE~Gasz€, beyond
which a rocky hath (limestone), very xii mull for camels leads :0 (3! 3 hrs.)
Aim Term? an ieulaﬁed peak rising from the ylateau, 51n- tlesmnt [4 hr.)
begins at {3 hrs.) ‘Aé‘absz esb-Ehe‘ithdwi. We begin 5 second descent sf:
(2E2 hrs.) ‘Alsaée! es—Sdban, which bring us in 10 min. in the valley of
Bathel. From this point the oasis of )akhel scratches towards the W.,
interrupted “vies by the desert, so as to form, strictly speaking thrsa
oases. The last of these, lying N. and 3., is “If: most considerable. After
waning two springs, “Am Saga» and Rain Assam-ah, we reach the eunsldershle
village of ﬁl'mu'ofrsl:E with ﬁltrinbaﬂ:q largely employed in the predueiion of
indigo. The manufacture is can-led on in the apes: air under palm-leave.
shade, The dried leaves are placed in earthen ms with boiling water,
whisk is stirred with a. stick until the dyeAsmlf gas been sepsrstcd from
the leaves. The blue liquid is than pnurcd into shallow holes in the
earth, and the water allowed to evaporate. To the me of the route, hair
the spring of 'Aln sl-ﬂfrbeh, abnui ,1 hr. beyond Tenidah, era the Wm
03 a square vaulieri temple. or n Reman tors, consisting of (31199 main

The anciené Egyptian name cf this oasis was
Page-429
Oman. DHSKHEL. 35. Route. 355

chambers and two sills-roams. Farther m: we pass the little village of
mm Rumdi, with gluon-ees waisted by two hawks, than Kugr 'Ain'
Amir, will: an Ancient ediﬁce. perhaps n tangle. and in 3/4 ﬁr. ranch
Emma, with ever 800 blank. the largest village bu! one in the $3.353.
Will: 3hr. immodlnlcly adjclnlng vlllagea (mate): it wants 30m inhnbllanls.
To lbs H. 61‘ lbs lawn, which eel-ruins tws mosques, are several large
lambs of shékhs. Al the entrance to the lawn {from the E.) is a. vault
containing some waecrwaasols, which are kept always full for the use of
luvs-Hers, by the bansﬁcence M a Shékn Mnslnfﬁh.

Beyond Balad the ﬁrs: division 9f the oasis ends, and we cross a
desert strip (QR/l hrs), inappropriately named Bagzr belah ma): (comp. p. 5117).
Alike: ll2 Inn‘s ride in the sewnd part of the oasis, we reach Kay- :5!
Mia-bah, a large building inrmunded by a vaulted gnllsry the remains of a
temple. About H/4 hr. farther is u mluad town, calla} I‘m»: tl-Kharﬁb
or the ‘des’u‘oyeﬁ Sment‘ containing a sandstone alrulstm'sj known as
eel-Dar {ms monasscry), 1‘?! paces long by 9 brand, will: two chambers in
a very ruinous condition. Basins it is a small building. The modern
villages of SW95: llss 1/. hr. farchsr; it is surrounded by a high wall and
most of the houses have two stories. To she S. of our road Hes Ma‘gavak
(25.) lnhab.), near which is is mined temple, Italian Klmrdbei ti-yaﬁdx‘.
SCI-sight} on is (iii: hr.) the ﬁlings of Hug the residence of Hanan Efemﬁs‘
(see below), on an eminence among date-palms. A ruined temple is found here
also. In the neighbouring; bills 13 am alnmrmlne. Hence we proceed to the
EEK to cl-Ha'ndau, and them cross the last strip of desert in {2112 hrs.)
gunmen, a small Place with houses of three slorles. galsmﬁn is the
residence of ills Kainunalgﬁm m- gnvermn or ﬁlm oasis. This village is
msnlinmzd by Et~Bebri; its name parhaps signiﬁes ‘Caslle 0f Ammnn‘.
The Shnrmgl who are settled hare claim to have ruled the oasis since
the days of the sultan Selim (15217), thengh they wera ﬁrst placed here
only about 100 yam-a aga by ﬁlm mamclnke government of that than as
a guard against the incursions of line predatory nomads (the decydt).
Allow. 2 hrs. to the NE. of lialzmll'u is Rash-"duh, a flourishing village with
numarnns palm-trees and said in have 1000 inhuman“. A runla leads
direct- N from Egalsmnn via the village of Muahiysh, snrronnéeé by gardens‘
9‘. About 1 hr. Eng-(her ls Budshum, will: 2&00 inhnb. and. m
palm-trees. which yield an annual 2:3:th al‘ 4.45000 watchman. There
are also rich olive-plantations. The hasgitahle shékh is (me of the richest
landowners in the oasis. ELSE-gt, also called Hamlet :1 {Mar ed-dehel,
i'mx capital of ﬁn; oasis. Has 2 hrs. to the N.‘ in Kai. 95° 52' 3". mld long.
2%“ E. of Greenwich, Its chief spring is %3 ft. above the sea-lsval. The
town contains at least W00 lnhab., 01- including the ailincent senlsments
(mach), 8000. les autwnrd appuuranca ls handsomn, and it contains
ssvsral large and flue houses. nearly all of them two-5261165, besides four
mosques and a Zawlveh or seminary of the Salli“ (P' 848). In the millet
of the town la a thermal spring CAM Harm-ah; 96 Faith), strangly im-
pregnated with iron and sulphur, and several ntnass are to ‘ne found in
ﬁle nelghbourhooﬂ. Ewan Efemﬁ, now in Mn; (m above), a native of the
Nile valley and formerly an. servant of Lefewe, the Franck mining—angina,
has borsd about 50 new wells in the oasis within tbs Ins: 30 yearn The
inhabilants employ themselves in a glam variety of lnénslrles, their
employmanls bslng heretlliary. In thalr mild and amiable; dlsyoslllon
they are a comnlnle contrast in the natives of swarm].

Archaeologists ﬁnd an object of interest in the sample known as
‘Dér aldiegh, 6.3. monastery of the stnnes. lying about 2 hrs. t9 the
S.W. 0! East It is almost onlirnly cm rod with aané and fallen bluekﬂ,
and had lo be cleared. by Balms. It use from E. lo W., and la 51 ft.
long by $1]: fl. broad, excluding the sxlemnl vsslibule. ’l‘lrls vestibule.
which is compleioly covered will: star-less, had originally 8 columns, of
which only one is now standing. Tne nnly relic of lhs enhance. m the
temple la the portal with the winged sun—disc, beneath which aha emparoz-
Titus is renrcssnlsd worshipping the ram’suhaaded Amman-Ba, Mum, and
Khunsn on His rlght, and the same wlth the lblblaoadsd Thom an the
left. The ﬁrs: lmll, ‘IA ft. long by 21) fl. brand, has four éolnmna 51nd
Page-430
356‘ Rom 35.. DAKHEL.

wnﬁnﬁns representations of tbs ram’s~headad Amman, Isis, and Anubis.
The seeond room is entered by a narrow door, rm which are sacriﬁcial
scenes before (he mum's-head Amman and other deities. Tha name cf
the. worshipping king is unfortunately not midi-.11 and only the word Kﬁres
is legible in the second cal-muck. Above is the winged nun-dim. This
mum in only half as long as the preceding and is deeiétum of all ornament
except on the central dos: landing to the: Sanctum-y. Eemelé’: measure—
mema of the latter give the breadth at T'le t., the depth at H in, and
me heighz M 10 ft. The {Autographs taken by him indicaee that the
templa was 2mm by Fare (73, Vupunian, and Tim. 1?. was tiediaamd to
Ammqndia, who is frequently represented with the man‘s-baud and “many
awompanied by limb. Once ha is styled Lord of flab, but his usual

_ a
m

. [I] ‘3 £3

moon. Ask ab npyaax-s to be the name of {he site of the temple, for the
same dasiguation is hem used for Sim, son of 33., am} for other god», -
The abeve-mentioned door to she sanctuuy hat! scenes of worship on
but): it: winga, mad 2. six-gins dedicatiun-inscriptinn. On pauzing wrong):
it into the can». we use an ma left, above, Vonpasian aﬁcxing to Ammom
Ra. Much, mm Khnnsu; benemh. en the left‘ its same emperor oﬂ‘ariag
to the 'mm‘arheadad Ammonvka with Na family, and on the right, £0 Khem
and Osiris Unnof‘er, In um butiom row» on the aide-walk um duyictﬁd
Nile-gods, bringing offerings. —— On the right wail of me calla Vespasian
makes afar-inst! w the rams-headed Amman-Ra, Mum, and litmus“, then
10 Shu, son of Ba, and to Tufnut, and funny to Sim1 Osiris. and Iain.
The ceiling was occupied by a rude aszronomicai representation, but
most of the blocks have fallen. The back-wall of the calla is divided
in knives, each containing 3 ﬂuids. in all 6 ﬁelds than: appaara m
amparor sacriﬁcing to the gods, among whom the man‘s—headed Amman is
twice repreaemed. The emperor"; name seems to he New {or more 32:0-
'bnbly N‘srva) Kiarca Germanicuﬂ. ~~~~~ The plaﬁom of this tampln cem-
manda an excellent 3View tewards {be long Table Maumaiﬁ menticned by
Edmonsmne. About 120 ft. in from of she fore-court 6f the umpls is a
shine gnmway, Wm: various mprmaniaiions new bareiy visible. The
entire temple is surrounded by a brick wsil.

deaignaéion is ‘wae: As: 05‘, he. he seat of tha
Page-431
Aab $6.
Aahhotep, Queen 199. 229.
Aahmea I. 135. 159. 229.
Amines Tomb of 25.
210. 2111.
Anhmes Nefertiti 229.
Auit 254.
'Abﬁbdeh Beduins 75. 258.
265. 303.
Abahudah 339.
Ahaton 288.
Abdellaﬁf 30.
Abhet 301.
Abotis 46.
Absheh 112.
Abtu 55.
Abu 275.
Abu Girgeh 8. 1.
— Gonsheh 12.
— Greiah 77.
— — (nem- Berenike)
78.
— Elmer] 325.
— H01- 312.
—— Kerk?» 1.
Abdkssh 42.
Ahulfedah 31.. 50. 100.
Abu Mung»: 260.
—— mm 36.
—- 3.33 329.
—- Sar el-Kibli 73.
— 8111151191: xv. '
- Simbel 331.
Abuah' 341.
Abu Tax-mt 35L
Abuﬁg 16.
Abydol 59.
Ahmad-325.
el-Adwah 38.
Elihu 8. 29. 99.
Enum 7'1.‘
Eacula in! 287.
Alni 31 .
Afn-Ih m1. 231.. 206. 238.
2.53%.- “3.9.2..
I
A uh a Madman 5.
, King w.
.'M Tomb of 27. 202.
9A111 Amur 3M.
— Ansonh 354.
—-— Ben L1! 316.
— el-Birbeh'm.

INDEX.

'Ain lflamﬁm 345. 347.

— Bamrah 355.

- Mﬁsah 316.

— Segnh 351.

‘Algabel el-Kebir 3M.

— eg-Sﬁbuu 354.

f esh—Shekhiwi 354.

— eg-So her 344.

Aker 21 . 211.

Akermi 346.

Akhm‘im 49.

Akoris 8.

Aksheh 340.

Alexander the Great 107.
344. 345.

Aliezgnder II. 12. 11.5. 140.

Alexander Severus 19.

Ara-tn, Tomb of 258.

Amaur 160:

Amenemapt 310. 311.

Amenemha I. 15. 37. 135.

— II. 15. 268.

— III. 28.135. 39. 2413.
301. 305.

Amenmes, Tomb of 189.

Amenophis, sec Amen-
hotep. '

Amenophis, Tomb 01194.

Amenophium 157.

Amenthes XX). 212. 217.

Amenti 60.

Amenuser, Tomb of 191.

Ameria 35.

Amkhent, Tomb of 195.

Amman 344. 316. 350. 351.

Amman Generator 49.
115. 127. 136. 166.

— Khem 173.

— Khnum M.

— Ra 11. 59. 61. 62. 100.
106. 111. 115. 120. 127.
137. 150. 165. 166. 175.
201. 251. 321. 326. 329.
355. etc.

Amman, Oasis 01345.

—, Oracle of 345.

Ammonius, Convent of
235.

Amonemhal 258.

Amonhianemif 310.

Amunmesaa 212.

Amosis 229.

el—Amri 30.

Amset 1 . 187,

Ameuemhn, Tomb M195. Amus, the 17.
Amen-Emil“, Tomb of Amndén 317.

198.

Amen-m—heh '339.

—, Tomb of 192.

Amemem-ua. 166‘.

Amenhikho e8h1166.828.

wagerhotep I. 188. 229.

— II. 147. 145. 192. 193.
258. 297. 298. 309. 326.
3271341.

— 111. 2‘2. 23. 53. 55. 110.
111. 115. 113. 132. 148.
154. 130. 237. 2150. 2’75.

— III. Tumb'of 202.

—. 1v. 1:2. 23. 133. 117. etc.

Am;:i-Amenemhn,’l‘omb
o .

Annual], Tomb of 192.

Anus el—Wogﬂd 281.

Anhur 52.

Anibal) 329.

Ankat 256.

An Ksmnt 230.

Ankhnes. Queen 114.

Ankish 341.

Ann, Tomb of 198.

Amman 47.

Anteo 0115 A7.

Antef .

St. Anthony 4..

—, Convent of B.

Antinoé 19.

Antinona 19.

Antonius Pins 18. 98-
162. 184. 186. am. 255.
295. am. 352. 353.
Page-432
358

INDEX.

Apet Goddess, 150. 151. Ball: 31mm 825.

285’. 330.
Apep, Serpent 203.
Apheru 64.
Aphmdimpolis 4. A9. 231.
Apollinopolis Magus. 244.
~ Pal-Va 100.
A ﬂinopolites Nomos

'Arabat el-Madfuneh 53.

Arakhiyeh 31.7.

ArccHn 260.

Arbesnefer 291. 313. 320.

Arrian 345.

Arsinoé, Queen 320.

Arsiuoite Nome 36.

Arth 301.

Arum-is 100. 234. 261.
264.

el-Asasif 221. '

Ascherson 544. 349. 354.

Asclepiodotus 157.

Ashment 1.

Ashmunén 19.

Assn 76.

Assiﬁy 31. 1.

Assuﬁn 266.

Astncfeﬂ 257.

Astronomical Re resen-
tations 85. 84. . 187.
202. 211. 251. 263. 293.

el-‘Ah’irah 266.

Atet, Tomb of 4.

Am]; 4.

Athena 233.

Athribis 49.

Atkheuu, Tomb of 71.

Atkheramon 305.

An ustus Emperor 81.

. 85. ks. 91. 151.188.

287. 296. 809. 912. 816.
319.

Awas el-Guarani 325.

el-Bib 3‘25.

Bab el-Ab'l‘d 143.

— el-Ctillisud 354.

- el-Kalabsheh 307.

el-Kebir 278. 2'74.

el-Medfneh 347.

ash-Shelli] 2'73.

Bacchis 4.5. ‘

Ball“ belih Hill 38. 347.
367.

—— el—Fﬁﬂr 34.7.

-— HI'Ib 326.

— el-Melekh 39.

— Nezleh 42.

— ash-Shawn 39.

— ey- ibﬁne‘h 13.

— el- 56.1 6.2.

— a-wmxn as. 89.

— Yﬂlni 8. 35.

Ballriyeh, Oasis, 918.
Baikhenu, Tomb of
270.
Bikir el»Menkab5.d 30.
Balad 355.
Balankah 6.
33.1135 98.
Bankes 68. 2841.
Hunt ants 188. 333. 339.
Bax-371m. 303.
Baratﬂn 344.
Basaliyeh 236.
Bagn elvHager 312.
9.1.13“: 36. 38.
Bawﬂi 348.
Baya’id 5.
Bédnh '76.
Bedﬁri 16.
Bedrashéu 2. 1.
Beechey 78.
Regal], the 303.
Begig 38.
Behnesah 6.
Bekhen Mts. '76.
Beled er-Rﬁm 347.
Beliineh 53.
Belzoni 78. 162. 218. 281.
333.

Belzoni's Tomb 217.
Bani ‘Adin 29.
Benib el—Eammim 30.
Benihasnn 10. 1.2.
Bani Eusén 1.
— Kan-ah 1.
— Mohammad 30.
—3g!ol'nammed eI—Kufﬁr
Beniguéf 5. 1.
Barber! 303.
Bersnike 78. 295. 320.
—, Quaan 275.
Bersheh 20.
Berna 302.
Bérys 368.
Bea 819.
Ben 19.
—, God 79. 54.
Bubud u.
BM ﬂ-Wllli $39.
Bush 73. '
Bibﬁn el-Humk 199.
— ash-Shell“ 279.
Bibeh 6. 1.
Bible, Pusagcafmmﬁﬁﬁ.
1311163322513: 865

a o .
Btgel’; 2727. 252.
Bihmn 98.
Bunk 281. '
B1! Abbid '77.
—- Shift)» 71.
— Duﬂwﬁ 77.

Bit Eamimit 79.

— el-Inglis '77.

— eI—Kuh 7'7.

— el-kor 3M.

— Lebﬁs 317.

al-Birheh 53.

Birket el-Ax-aklliyeh 317.

—- elvam-ak M.

— el-Knrﬂn 13.

— el-ﬁallilgeh 1M.

Birth-houses 80. 230. 259.
255. 289.

Bishuiu 304. .

mgogmyas 50. 283. 303.

..

Bonds, sacred M. 1:17. 1.67.
197.

Bokkhm-is 315.

Browne 3“. 349.

Bruce 78.

Bruce‘s Tomb 212.

Brugsch, E. 2%. 230.

— Heinr. 9. 39. 99. 159.
54.2. 244. 304. am. an.
350. 352.

Bubutiteasgbyn. m
Budslmlu .
Bukenkenn 92.
el-Bukér, .Oonvenl of 7.
Bukir bird the 8. .
1mm; (Khirgeh) 353.
—— ed—Dakrﬁr 1.

Bulls, snared 92. 1.89. 21.4.
Burton 159.

Bﬁsh 5. 1.

Bntig 16.

Butu 64. 151.

Cnmbysel
(lunch 76.
Gsndsce
Page-433
INDEX. 359

 

 

  

Cleepatra II. 288. 2%. 6r 5‘. Ahmar 49. Ebg gig 98.
—- HE. 283. - DAmba Bishai 348. Ebhﬂb el- Hammﬁmw.
M V. Tryplman:257. 261, m ebbaxx'rl 22%. Ediu 25.3
26?. 2'90. — Barnmus 3&5. 1‘ dmnnwma 50%. 356.
—- VI. 81. 98. 230 - el-Bukrah 7. 9-3!st 50.
Colmai £11 15.6.2153 1E2E‘e‘n‘6h3rbiygh 1269. Edwards, Amelia 339.
298 323. 533 337 E— ebGe‘mai 30. Eileithyia 236.
Commilitium RomanumE— eI-Hegar 355. Eirpsnomos 3G2.
992 Ew eirknaér 23. Eiuenlohr63.19(3.?§3.3{‘ﬁ.
Commodus 233, E— Mama-ion 3&8. 513. 521. etc.
'Comm Lasopniis 235. E“ liaLﬁs i Elephanzine 271.
— Lympolia 439. Em ebMedineh 188. Ellesteh 329
Pselchis 321. EM L ~Nakhlch 20. Emerald Mines 7S.
—— Byene 2’75. E— er- Rife): ‘LS Eat/Maker, Tomb of 195.
—— TI pixie 307 E—~ sum. Mzryam el- rlx'aiosibencs 257.
Cook‘s Steamerﬂ xiv.xvi. I 35111-th 8 Erhkam 2
299. — Syﬁﬁni 358. Ergamenes 302. 305. 316.
Coptic Church 100. Den 323. 320
Croméiles 5. $0. 86. 295. Unﬁt ash Shenf 1 2S. Er moat 230.
829. Desert Egypt. -Arab. 73.EEshkeh 34E.
— mummies 3G. 74. 3‘25 EErmélI 23E
Croaodiie grotto 29 w ﬁiby an 35. 343. eh: Eis‘ibai $05.
Grofoiﬁopolis - Aisinoé Iiéshneh 72. EEtfeL 49.
35.31. Dhahabnyehs _:uII. xxx-
Crecndilopulitan Roms: XXIV -39 .E‘nlue Pyramid. the 2.
95. Dihereh 341. Fari‘kfi‘ah. Oasis 348.
Crygnts 96. Diana}: 55. Fans 340.
Gurliu5,§gintua 31!). 347. Dimishkineh M. EFnrahﬂE 70
Guy-9:05 _. Dimruo (LL Eel aniik'nir 76
Gaming of the Dam 259.1)imri 305. IanIIris 70.
Cynoce haﬁ 1119. 4,6. 24,9 Diocletian 99. 235. 2%. EFIIya'LIn. the 34
291.3. 295 297 EFemi 331. 389
Cynopolis? Diodorus 51.5.7. 49. 108.Ee}-Fsrei‘ 31M.
, {58 192 163.165. 132459:th 1. E5.
Dabwm 351. 302. 81;, 31?. 321. 3L5. Eltcstival Boat; see Boa“.
eai-Dagba' '18. Uionyeiu 35. I sacred.
anakin 953.0i05p0213 Patva 70. (‘nlendar 91'. 1&1. 234..
Dikhsl, Oasis 353. ~ Magma 105. 284.
Dakkeh 316. Diae, see Sim-aims. — of the Stairaase 16}.
Darﬁwi 265. Diimeneh 331 177.
Durféwl 77. Dndekasc‘ﬁninos 3(1) 3’22. — — New Year Ell.
Dan-fax 300. 313. 353 Dog-headed Apes, see idmin 43,
Darius I. 130. 246. 352. Cynccc hﬂi. Flint Implements 221..
.,,. 11.353361 352.1)9mch '1. Fans ’I‘rqismxa 74.
Dead Bsokoﬂheim. 901. Domitian 186 233. 308. French Expedizion 1053.
2'95. 353. 158. 162. 202‘. 232. 236.
- Gad: of the mi Dungniah .903 9:71.
--, Jud ant ox” (115189 [Inn olah- Janguags 265.
Debét i 30. Guhrat e Dayan ’?’?.
Debi“ 331. Dru}: Abu‘l Ncggah 19.). 50.1153 "840.
Damn-i SA. 25:. Dragoman xx. Eel- (“tank 347.
Deciua 258. ~— Cantmci xx. ml-Guwﬁzi .
361mm 59. Drnvatti 3M. Emu-.6 a; Son‘s ﬁteumera
Dandeub 79. ed- Dueig 78. { xv.
Dmﬂﬁr 312. es! Dukneerah 329. EGcbeI In»: E‘édnh '28.
'eﬁ-Denﬂk £01. DEImLclIen 56 31 83. 93 ~— Alm E35 78.
Dirt Al. Al. 87. 182. 222 24“: 252. — Aha K0” ch 75.
— Aha Bennie 20. 343. 3.5 eta. — Abu Shegub 2M.
- Abu 31:15.35. ‘9. Dilnhpalms 28. 70. 169. — Ahu Sunk 3‘25
_. Abu Shanﬁdi $9. 9995 el—Eai’ah 353. -- Abymi (8.
—- el— A‘Dviui (near 5165- E“ Adar mm: 325.
m?m)51,!§bets M. was. 190. 192: Iddch 339.

   

.,,. m (new: 551194;} 49. 228. 279. etc. E— Amal
Page-434
360

Gabel Amﬁr 356

— Barkal 301. 362.
—Brik 343.
Daghnni eh 77.
D' ad 9

— Dukhin 76.

F amt 325.

Hamﬁtah 78.

— Eomr 7'7.

— H61- 70.

— Molnar: 325.

— Moshﬁghir 77.

— Mug ef 7'7.

— M65611 345. 347.

—Nuha.s 7'7.

Rukllam 66.

R11“ 3%.

Seneyat 325.
— es- -$.gSer 256.

— Sbékhﬁg el- Harideh AS.

— Shékb Embank 6.
—- Shékh $326 20.
— Shemt el-Wah 306.
— Sheroneh 236.

— Sidi Rained 365.
-— Sﬂsileh 25.5.

-— ep—Tér ’7.

— Tuna); 19.

— W611.“ 7'7.

— Zahara]; '78. 253.
Gebelén 231.
Gennih 352.

St George 52.

Geri Husén 316
Germanium 233. 286.
GM: 233.

ol—Gezireh 28. 63.
Gez’iret Asauﬁn 271.
— el- Gharb 72.
Ghemaw‘iy eh 263.
el— —Ghorehiyeb 66.
Girgeh 52.

Gizeh 1.
Goleniachaﬂ" 67. 77.
Gomoa $6.

Gordian m6.
Gordon ENE. 325. 362.
Grebaut 186.
Grenfell 11011111269.
Grifﬁth 33. 278.
Gurgnndi 331.

Guru]: 11.

el-Gnti 806.

Hr-lbeti 66.
Hndegngeh 353.
Hndamlonh $6.

£116!an 19. 157. 186. 233.
KB

Hsgg'BI-Kundﬂ 22.
Hlkuris 186. 237.

Hun“: 166.

INDEX.

Hamami‘n, Gebel 5 Wadi e1 Hindu: 355.

75.76.
Hamnni‘yeh 4'7.
Hamalhah 7.
Hamilton 346.
el-Hammim 43. 239.
51- Hannah 31.
ﬂap 1 187. 295.

Hap n 319-

Hap -Zefnh Tomb (11 83.
Ha]- akhuti 339.

Hamm el- Kadhah 2.
el-Hanh-ah 78.

el-Harib 29.

HarmaChia 61. 187. 326.

329. 339 etc.
Harper‘s Tomb, the 212.

Hurpncrates 295.
Harris 28. 30. 189. 255.

Katasu (Ramaka) 138. 185.
256. 269.

Huber 10. 29. 80. 8'7. 88.

223. 225. 255.
Hat en Sek 3.

164. 188. 253. 289. 296.
387. 338. etc.
—, the infernal $1.
— of Denderah 63. 81.
— of Heliopolie 63.
Ilaihor- -capitala 80 1&9.
285. 289.305
Hathur- -cuw 188. 227.
Hatholep 93.
Ha—Userteaen- Julep 61.
9.1- Huwaisheh 51.
Hawamdfyeh 1.
Hawérm, ramid of 38.
— cl-K ab .
— el-ke it 41.
— el-Malguh 38.
cl-Enwﬁhh $.
el- Hnwi $6.
Hay, Robert 866. 351.
Heben 10.
Eebent 211. 236. 237. 238
239.
Hekan 200.

Helena, Empress 21235. lbrin m.-

Heiiognbnlu 308,
Her-cleopolis 5.
— Magma 366.

Hirka $3. '
Hitin el-‘Azﬁl 3.
Hittites, see Kheh.
Home:- 107. 157.
Honltaui 337.
Hora-nemu,'1‘omb of
166.

Horumes Tomb of 263.
11399 behet (hut)139.256.

Horemheb, King, see
Horus.

—, Tomb of 196.

Homhaf 5.

Horsiltef 302.

Hoxsiisi 292. 309. 3110.

Horn: 10.“ 67. 6750. 59. 61.
62. $.56 .1.oo $3.
264. 265. $3. 289.

— of the wide heart 169.
298.

— — horizons 389.

— the child 50.
”3301111360“flicked 311. 315.

—, -— Bek 315. 360.

 

—§u—)- Man 311. 315. 329.

— Bamhui 80. a. 2“.

Horu, King (Formula)
116 166. 6.

257.321
61116571 256?”

3337'...“ 191.315 mo. :11.
Km: '70. - ‘ "

Hui Tomb 07163; ‘I
Huh, Tomb of 19.

 

Hydrmum '76. .78: '
HM $8. .
11be 18. 226: 4", \I

,[I‘S'

Ibis 291. h w J‘ .
Ibumbulm . .
Ichneumon, 3M5"

Ilhhﬂn 61. ' ‘

 

Hercules 6'1. 865. Imliaeb,
Hex-hot 169. Imhotep $7
Hermonthis 230.1naori don.
Hemopolia Eugen-”19. 92. .
Herodotus 2. 8 185. 263.
182. 262.5” mm Inblh 71.
327. 366. 365. 367. III! N. 61
gamm- ' :22
ea . .
mb w. —- or» W
:l-Eiba'h 6. —- 166‘
Kimonpolin 263. — Beth :-
Hiemykuninoa am. an —, Q ‘ "
r :1. <1
Page-435
INDEX.

361

15111551 Fagin 308. Kaialmihmns 191nm 344.1555) (-1- AlImIIr if} 248.

Ian-em. el-Kharéh 855. Katesn 112. 1.113. 181.168
IaEabl Ania! 38. 838.
Bf: 49. Km: 31— 12 harbi I18.
Itineraries: Anionini 71 M e} K4385: 47

77 315.913.3111. 321. Kebsenuf187.232.

Kehu 278.
Jackd-mmmios 33. 51- Ram an 235.
Jews 124. 199. 198. Kene‘n 7‘2.
101:): of Lycopolin 81. ,kenem 349.
Jame-:5. 48. EKzaissIb 842.

 
   
  
   
  

Kopbos 98
Kat-Ii 322. _
Komsko 394.

Knaér or XII-sci: 7‘7

_ Finis 87.

— e! Ewan 158.
M thafaI-ah 10.
— Ombo 280.
Konusso 298.

 

Kostamneb 3‘ 8

Jordan 344. 847. euc. EKenﬂs‘ anguage 265. 804.1{riosphinxas 118

Josey!” Cum-1 mus BahrEKeI-kis 31
‘nlsus'. EKm-Eaasi 305
Julius PhLippus 233.Eé1-Kés ‘7.
Eu its: Amman Oasis ofEKeheh 829.
EKha, Tomb of 189

 
 
 
 
 

Kubfmiyuh 235.
Knbban 321

Knit 98.

él~KuEn2I $5.

Kﬂm 'Imn’in 74.

Juan; 287. 318. 323. 'Km- eta-hat Tomb 01190. Kummeh 342.
JIwiinian $3. Khanem'us 168. 288. 287. Kumxh 196.
swam: 7. 153, 297. 298. 31,1. Knrmei mun-ax £68.
Maui» 845 . kurai 179.1381: 38.

33.9.1: 311. Khamgetelann, Tomb 0 K83 99.
91»K’Tab £8. E 181 Knew: 28.
stz e1-‘Ay3t 2. EKhaI-ahet erjnzidi 355. Rush 300 388. etc.
— Inwna 347. e}— Khargeh. Oasis S48. 91 Kumyeh 28.
M ’l‘amiyah 44. Khartﬁm 842.1{ysi5 353
151511? eE-‘Asékir 34. Khasbm Khalil 44.
Kahﬁn 41. 9.1221.- 6. . Baby "nth Lhe 3.9
Kainepolin 72. Khan: 99. mo. 1’18. 9! Lamar: 1.41.
Ka-Khent 47. M Amman 48. 50. 341. ELakes sacred 14-“. 188
Kaiabsheh 307. M- MEI: 98.100. 1.9118911!) 75.
Kalnmsheh M. M Land of 87 ELaiopolin 231
539.15an 355 Khemmis 48 Ellen African“ 8 5’2. 53.
3511111128 101. Khem 1mm, Tomb ME 288.
Kanatir e1 Agani 38. 253. ELepidotI.m 1’0.
— {lassn 43. thnas 3414. EM. sins 2 10. 13 18, 27.
e1- K395113944. 847 Khennu 280. E ‘. 55. 105125.154.
Kai‘giu 341. Shep era 233. E 160 5.80. $5221..“
el-Km'n 75.. eIKheI-beh 53. 99 E 21:5 267. Nit-163 30L.
Kainak £15. Kherheb,1he 1?8.178.E 825. 338. 5352

Temple of Amman 119. 18?. ELetronne 159.158.

_. anp a! 150. Khexﬂf Tomb of 198. ELcucothea 299.

— - Khansu 143.1(bcsbei 386.1.eukos Limen 77.

... - Mentu 143. Knew War, the 112 130.131-L1hhah 347.

M - 38th 138.141 160.163 33.5. Libyanneserlii‘). 3.5.3.995

Kheti Tomb of 18
Khinensu 8. 3411
Khnubis 235.

 

 

M 4E1: 52-2355): 352. 298. 324.

1583th the 846.
Life Serpents of 201. 3J9.
Linant Bay 4.1.

Khnum 10 138 284. 27515511: 2.

Lotus-calyx capitals 309

M (:1- Benfxt 42 75. Khnumhoiep, Tomb of 1.01918de columns 18.
-— Efendina-h (Emamm 15 138 etc.
M 21- Fékhdrah 854. 8152- 853- Men 18. 92. 2’7. Lewer ELM: 299.
m (35.11th 352. EKhunes, Tomb M10. 270 Luxo: 101 109.
M-al Halakah 355. EKhIznsu 100 109.121 Lycopolis 31.32.
M Ibrim 380. E 140.148 209. 281.
-- Kurﬁn ISA.EK1ngIE, T931513 (If 68. (B is 57. 60 m7. 263 291.
.— iiu MEI Dash 352 140 waIahdéix 99
— 22-85": 347. M, Tombs {If the 189. 39. Macmius 848.
M all 9515198 70 M: Mummien 228. Musk 388
m eEABI-Ef 354.1{11'38 814. 318. Hag hag bah 1. 8.
— W515 852. Kumsaneh 1. 7.

Katabitlxmun 111mm) 353. Kolchyfes 1153.

61438511755 34?.
Mahﬁda 278
Page-436
362

Malinaralgah 3%.

Maﬁa; language 263. 3041
Mamggas ‘3‘.

Hahn, Tomb si 52?, :36
Mailmtemem xv.
Makat 512. .

Magﬂzi 8. 31.

skunk: 355.

Malki 825.

Mnmeiai, s. Erik-humans
linudulia 80?.
ci-Mandﬂralx 23.
Mangﬂrﬁyuh 230.
Maragh, Convgmt 0f 29.
el-Mamgxhéit :18.

Mar RAE!
313$:an 5.
as 2%.

Marcus Ame.
Marietta ’34 55. 33. 33’. 69

 

 
 

Men-aim $02.

95. £09. 119. £36. £117.
199. 2‘22. 15%. $544. 301.

333,
Markos 395.
Maw: 78.
Ma'gunb 355.
Mashnkit 340.
el-Mashlb 35.

MM em 2. 26. 313.51.. 935.

1. 236. 241. 261.
Magﬁyeh 1.
Museum: 4..
Mnximinus 802. MB.
Maze: 88. 93.
Memah 23L
mama: £51.
Hedi]: 332.
Medina! eR-Fasﬁm $3.
-~-~ Habu 1"
—- el-Kagr eii»'l)akheiﬂ§ﬁ
Medjed 34.4.
Kédﬂm, Pyramid

Hakim. of Q.

Mehemiuﬁ 3662).
Mahsndi 322.
Mekhu, Tomb of 2%.
Malawi el-‘Ariah 1. $2.
Memuon 8. 55. 154.
n? Coloasi (If 153.
-.-, Tomb at S. .
Memnnnia M. ['15. 153.

 

Memnonium efﬂmsea ll.

158.
~— nf Ramses 111. £71.

INDEX .

.iemh X53.

. ﬂew.“ 11. 165.
Meatuhot/ap 111. W.

. Ewenpkab '1'. ﬁlm. 137. £72.
186. 257. 9.55. 259. ”£60.
1239. 2'71.

—. Tomb of 207.

Merenrah 80.

Mari-amen 166.

.alﬂeﬂknra 341.

Marita. 337.

M aritamon 387.

Merit“!!! 337.

Meroé 302. 342.

Mersekhet 201. 205. 211.

ebﬂegaurﬁt 342.

Muslim“: 55.

¢1~Meshhed 303.

3:5. ,. {1, Tomb of 158. 133

Me'tum ayahmm'l‘ombs :19
1:1 .

Matuu 3.

1" u 301

as 279.

Mm 49.

Minutoli 344. 3416. etc.

.Minyeh 1. 9.

Missionaries 100.»

Mobwniua 75.

Mobwulnt K‘uﬁr eX-G hirT’T.

— Rés agfar 77.

Maris 3‘).

Mail-is, Lake 40.

Ma mauled *Ali 2'11. 808.

Moi, Tomb 05' £86.
Kaila]! TI.
Monetary Syﬂtem xii.
Monfalﬁt 1. w.

. lionisit m.
Mom!) 33. 1.51. 23L (ate.

    

   
 

 

9.31a- Memos 305.

Kuley Yus 345.
ei-Kuuderah 32f).
.Ms‘lsah. Tomb of Shékb

231. '
Hashim): 355.
Mm 355.

Mutemna, Queen 156.

Hum 100. 106. 130. 124,
£27. 186. 1315. 130. 16'].
1’36. 257. 3‘29.

Mmgmk eel-Selim 7b.

Myoa 110mm "(5..

— of 83:”. uzAbyam (>4.

— — at [ﬁn-mil: £93.
Mena—necklme 98:.
Mean: 9.

Mensa 53. 56.

Ewes. (Dana: 02' ﬂ.
Meniyuh 230.
ulvﬂenisu‘ ‘ .
ci~Mumhiyc

   

Nadurun 352.

Nﬁguh 33.2.

Magi Hamadi 70.
Nag‘Meh 100.
Mgpats 301. 302. 8111.
Nan-Ken 283.
Emstnaanen 502.
14$”;th £6.

Nair-9n Convene 367.

Hume 217. MA.

Nebt~tati 333.

Hefarhobav, Tom}; a! 195.

Nefermﬁt 3.

Nefarsekhm Tomb of 10.

Refer Tum 37.

Net‘m, Tnmb (I! m

Neil-us 10.

lehi, Tomb of 330.

Neil-aka“. Tomb 052118.

Neith 181'.

Nekheb 64. 84. m.

Nekhelah xv.

Nekho 1&3.

‘Nakm, Tum}; n; $.91.

Nekmnebus I. 101.. 139.
HILQM. 2&6. 3&7. 8:50.

n. 15.0. $114. 185. 288.
5246. 32. ﬂ- 5336.

Nepherites 1‘33.

Mummy” 4’1. 60. 61. 1823-.
3'16. 2M.

Nero 83. 98. 136. 286. 3.56.

Harm 233. 968. 356.

Restoring 50. 362.

New Year‘s Festivai 91.

Nuzluh (Fuyﬂm) 1?.

Night of the Dmp 269.

Nile Gods of the 155. it”.

ounce of fhe 771. 294.

m. Travellin on thexiil.

Filamelers 2’2. 291.

Nitoctia 14.5.. 223.

Nitria MT.

gﬂobaaea 288. 302.

ENofertat-i 333. 337. 338.

:Nnmea in of ()9. 143.
151. has 235.

{Em-den £233.

{Nubia $9. 299.

3:11:18. Nomos M4.

Nukhel 77.

gNuri 3&2.

Nu! 83. 98. 205.

04.41% 3438. 36.

Oasis Major 3W.

— Minor 3M.

Obalisku “1. $33. 277.
$84. 388.

Ofedimh 3‘32.

Olympiodoms 349.

Ombos 261.

Onnurh 52.

()nhkix 3m.

Osiris £0. £7. 63.. w. 57.
59. 31. 39. 33.. G. 99.
10%. 133. 206. 53. em.

Osiris Um-mfm- 283.

Oﬂiriswpillin 138. 1%. 175.
3111. '

(Jam-k0

m,
Page-437
INDEX. 363

Owl-Icon 11.135.1Pihm‘ 318. Phylum XV}. Caesariou
05m mandyae.Tomb ofiﬁEPihari Tomb of 239. 81 9 230. W.

90.185. 1853. E93131; 281. Ptolemy, ths Geographer
0190 185 EPiElawEneh 81 8.10. 71. 8%.
Oxymhynchus 8. EPincbtatj 281.293 Purgepmunia 808

EPinozem 1-19. 1813. 2‘29.

Pwammx 32.3. E 352. ueens, Tombs of the
P1; numb 3L EPiusr Tomb 06 195. E 186. .
Pacino 848. What-columns 1A. 258. ‘
Pachcmins, Convent ofEPIiny 8 41. 99. 340, Elie. 203 etc.

235,
I’mkhenmx 258.
Fan Tampiu 01‘ E50.
Panehssi 207 258
Panic 1‘93: 50
Yanopolia 49.
Pa-p tab 318.

‘oiinus 31.
Plutarch 7. 70. 98.
EPoeocka 19 109.182. 2583

ERmE-Iarmnchia 206 etc.
'Rza'iaffanamif 168. 187. 335.

EPnlychnml columns 11106136 ERuhineh A7.

EPremstorlc a.scoverIes I
E 221. 250. ,
EPremiB 330. E

Papyrua- -bud columns 28.Ei’rimi5 Parva 990.

913.122.1141 etc.
Papyrus Abba” 299
— Hameﬁq

189.

.. 6f Katmai: 2'29.
— Eaifet 112.

- Sallier 111. 112.
Fax-”94min”: $3.4.
Puembale 292. 306.

EPrisue d‘Avenneh 100.130
E 190 321

.120.198.183.IrotoDoric columns 12.
16. 18. 289. E98.

Psammetikh I. 119. 1:11
302. 3115.

. 225..

 

Ea’notey & Nefert Tomb
of 11.
Eukhansk‘er 801.
Rakhegcrka 285.
Ra-kheperu~nab 189.
Rama“, Queen 229.
see Batu“,
Ea-ma—men 58. 81. 62.
Rmmavunmeferu 389.
Pusmankheper aenab,
Tomb of 195.
Same-men 268.
Rams-mi, Tomb of 25.

Pﬂh! 11. El’eelchie 316 Bameses ment-her_—kho-

Pa- "an: 5%. Eth 61.1454 156. 315 peshf, Tomb of 250.

St. Paul, Ccnvent of 6 E 324. Ramessonm 168.

Pauswias 168. E— Baku-Osiris 87.181. Ramses“ 166.

Peace, Treatv nf (Knr’EPbLhmerli, Tumb 05191 Sunsets X, 124. 1%. 229.
Ink) 182 {Ptolemai‘s Hexmiu 52 257. 841.

Pehsnkhar, Tomb of 198.EPtalem 1. Soter 52. 115. — II. 37. 58. 58. 57. 58

Penlleben Tomb a! 1,40.l

Peanut, 'IEemb 6f 829.

l’entaur.E pix: Of 112. 14‘
£61. 186.

Penw, Tom's) of 28.

1. T1. 76. 81. 98. 97.

2&3.

. 289.

Perseus 50.

Peach: 28.

Petxmenap, Tomb of 185
222.

Pataat 313.

 

Petric, Flindﬂ‘m 39. 41.,

255. 275.
LFehunina 302. 318. 390.
anlncm 11‘. 7B.

Pharaoh of the Exodus

166. 1'12. 2m.
Pharaoh‘s: Bed 2%.
“ﬁlm 281.
thppus me.

508.

.— Atidwun 15‘. 136.
Philistines 117. 181.
Philozem 77.
Plath-aria 3L0.
Pigeons 48.

3653“th 141. 301.

Arabs

I 134 36

— II. Phﬂadelph's 100.
143. $3. 292. 293. 285.
302.

III, Euetgeﬁes 118. 143.

2115. 275. 255. 852.
- 'V.PhiI0 n£02114.119.
149. 183. 8 2'75. 287
283. 292. 298.

E- V. Epiphaues 247. 287.

x 290

I— VII. PhilometotiS. 71.

E m m. m 247. 281.

E
x
x
.x
x
x
x
E
x
'x
x
x
x
r

59. (fl. 1110, 111. 119.
117. 119. 124. 125. 126.
141. 1.12. 151. 181. 182.
184. 187. 168. 172. 1&5.
229. 230. 237. 257. 268.
331. 311. 516. 321.
.328. 329 838.
~.',II Tomb of 207.
— II, Golcssas Of 182.
~— 111.37.107. 119.120.
121 126 15.8 1&8 15.9
171. 179. 175. 178. 182.
188. 188. 229. 930. 257.

   

.,

 

I 284. 287 288 292 298
E— Di. Energeves' :1
Physkon 198.121. 151.
152. 185 186 226 288.
265. M. 298. 290, 292.
— X. Soﬁe: II. Lathyrus
81. 198. 151. 185. 238.
250. 263. 287 90?. 862
<— XI Alexanécx 81. 108
248. 258
v— x111. Neos Dihmyuos
Auletee 81 98. 88. 144
151.152. 247. 9.49. 261.
282. 287 290 297

245. 247. 261. 265. 264. —
293. 293. 349. me. 318.

259.

— 111., Tom!) 6f 212.

— 1V. 79 1%.141 1‘7.
172

RV. Tomb of .994.

— V. 1458.

VI. 126. 14?. 150. 239.

329
m VL,’1‘-om‘b uf mg.
m VIL, Tomb of 203
— 1X 14-5.
— X, Tomb of $3.
« XIII.12$.1ESU
- XIII“ Tomb of 205.
Ramses. themaycr, Tami}
of rat
Page-438
364

Rmehkher 255.
Randal-kn 71.
Raneferu 269.
Bannbkan 16.

INDEX.

Sebeknefru, Tomb of 242
Sebﬁ 210.

Sebu‘nh 322.

Sedfeh 46.

Rannbkaunekhl, Tomb of Seﬂsn 243.

269.
Mankhkn 255.
Basekhem 243.
Rashidah 355.
Raskenen 195. M9. 230.
3.9.5.5 290.
Bayﬁn 944.
Red Convent the 49.
Redésiyeh 253.
— Temple of 78. 254.
Re is xx- xxn.
Rekh- --ma r9. Tomb of 191.
Rénnneh Canal of 53.
Renni, ’llomb of 242.
Renp et 60.
Retemm 128. 310.
Rhampsinitus 192.
Rharbyin, the 346.
Rhodopis 223.
13.731 el-Khél 77.
— el-Ghazal. 77.
— 61- Ram“): 77.
Rikkah 2.
Rizagat 231.
R6411}: 1. .18.
Rohannu 76.
Rohlfs 344. 946. 347. etc.
Rosellini 16. 182.

11021515, E. de 112.'239.

5.366.315... 40.
Ruﬂnua 343.
Ruuegger 325.

S; 209.

Sabsgﬁrth. 346.

Saben, Tomb of 269.

Safekh 64.166.167.294.—
9554". the 35. 41.

Sibel. 4.8. .

Szkét e1 Kibhh 78.

Sakiyehs 37.324. em.

Salamnt 154. .

Salamiyeh 291.

9511131184 1. 7

Slmhﬂd 70.

Bamnnt TI.

Sunnrie 345.

Smbub 348.

San-u 94.1. 942.

346 M5. 289. 298 311.
329. 890.

Scarabazus 200.

Seb 59. W9

Sebek 7. 96. 258. 257. 258.
261263.275.

Bebekhi, Tomb of 243.

Sebekhotap 11.114.

81111121278298.

Sekhet 96.148.319.

Sekhet Ann 345.

Sale]: 41.

Selk 187.

Sembrites 302.

891111188 17. 171.

Samuel] 342.

Semnes. Tomb of 270.

591154 231.

631191111 297.

Sent-Eu- 303.

Senhﬁr (Fuyﬂm) 43.

—(neu K118) 11!).

Sen- -nefcr, Tomb of 192

Sean} 42.

Sendai, tbs 348. 355.

Sept. Severus 156. 233. 306.

Serapis 347.

Serpents 87. 201. 205. 213

Scrreh 341.

Seaebi 342.

89300519 311.

Satan 331. 339.

— Tomb of 240.

Selep-eu-Ra 166.

Seth 99.109.140.eu:.

— Typhnn 234.

Sen 1. 11. 56. 57. 60. 61.
66. 114. 124. 125. 126.
127. 123. 146. 151. 196.

2‘29. 230. 236. 290. 299.
916. 326.
— 1., Tomb of 217.
— II. Kenn uh 7. 114.
117. 119.1.132. 137.
339.
II. Tomb of 217.
pr’ince 166. 939.
Set— nekht 172 139. 215.
Sey ileh 322.
Shynbako 114182.137.
141. 143. 301.
61131th 199.
Shu-kiyeh 946.
Shae-hate 49.
5mm
Shut or!“ 255.
855k}: '4“ h 19. .
— 'Abd el—Iunnh 1W.
— 41m Ruined 41
— Arm-ii: xv.
— Basendi 355.
— (31-th1 7. .
— aner 47.
— Hamer149.
# 99.ka 74.
‘— Sa‘id 39.

my. mm

3871- Shekilkﬂ 29.

51.5111179273.

Shendawin 48.

51191191 302.

Shepenap 1, Tomb of M9.

Shesheuk 1.122.123.1317.
256.

31161 35. .

Shiahlk 1%.

ﬁlm 59. 236. 233. 2123. 289.

Shunet ez-Zebib 69.

Shugeb 46.

Signjah 341. 342.

Silko 302. 308.

Sinjerli 164.

Siptah 215. 257.

Si Ben ut, Tomb of 210.

Sit“, mean 187.

Sill: nee mum.

Siwnb ouls of 344. 349.

81111114 3“.

Snefm 2.

Sohig 49.

SokurOsiris 91. 65.67.
166.181.

Soldiers” Tomb, 15934.

Soleb 301. 342.

80p 4 31.9.

Specs Artemidoa 11.

Splhinxes Avenue! of 116.
850 .4515 .211. m

Srup mm: 306
Skabl 'Anhl- 11. I.
Stephan" of Byslnuun

Stern 192. 259. 38256.
SInho 4.7 M40.
54. as. 139.113.1513.
200. 231. 233. 243.
277.312.947.949.
Stunt'a Tomb 191.
Sﬂad‘gn 169. 266. 900. m
Suez Gun] annienl 129.
Sngu-fncto‘rleaﬂ. 290. cu.
egsuléhiyoh 2W.
“3191)th o! m 945.

Sun-duo, M um

Ensuriyeh 7. ‘
Sunni 8. '
S yene ”7.
9y yenite M6.
Syringes 2X).

Tubal-4,
7:23.”: 1
o
mm-MIIHI'

Tmﬂu 1U.
Nah

155.
M2.

'7). z
‘w ”194'
.1 1

my:

 

u

 

.1. mm
64‘? mun-M1

AWJIC
1.

1G
Page-439
Taharka 119.1311“.
125 185 391 331

T911149 48

T31 93.

Takalut I. 121.

— II. 129. 140. 144.

Tahompsu 909. 822.

Tannin 999'.

Tania Superiox i.

Tanuf E.

Tn phis 309.

Ta: :1: 160.

Tart}: ed Dahriw‘. T7.

Tuwlnafart 991. 293.

T995111 3&8.

Tawney; 97.

'I‘auser Queen 215.

chab Tomb at 35

Tefaﬁt 59. 210. 995.
321.

Tehannu 310

{L‘eimeh ez-Tahﬂnah 8.

at Tell 22.

Tall c1 Amarnuh 22.

Tam-eh 49.

Temdah 35L

Tentym 79

Temms, Tomb of 195.

Tunnel: 3“.

Tea Box- 254.

Teta 3. 23?.

Tetkara 78.

Thebes mi.

Theodore-3 Bishop 2815.
302

Thanénsius the Great 51.

. 289.

This 59. 53.

’l‘bmuia $9.

Thowq 55.

T9015 11 65 84 69.136.
129.195. 199.137. 131'.
291. 294 339.

— I’enubs 812’.

2&7 238. 289 290. 291
295 350.
Tii, Queen25. '29 1.55.15”.

Tirseh 29.
Tm, Tomb of Queen 187.
Titus $9. 395. 399.
Tomas 829.
Toehkeh 931.
... elJGhﬁxb 931.
Tourisbst camera xiv. 299.

235.

318. 519.
Tiberius 83. $3. 991. 295.

  

INDEX.

Tra 31380.93 233. 299.

I3:
"‘2‘
01

908. Wadi Ambagi 77.
— Amrugﬁm 7S.

Treaty 0: Peace (Kaymaki —- ell-’Amb 523,

Tn: 333. 339.
Tumnmf 181. 902
Tui-L the 901.
Tuathmt Apt 188.
T119 331.

Tum 11.8%. 165. 197.

Tuphium 231.
T9: 72.,

Lufbﬁ‘ e.-Karﬂd 209.

Tut Tomb of $3.
Tuésnkhmw $69
Tutmes X. 132.139.

— Bay ad 5.

w Bé3ub '13. 77.

- Bézah 77.

— Dela): 825.

~—« Fagirch 73.

M Gemai '33.

— Gerf 73.

l— Ghazal ’17.

Halfah 3H.
Amimﬁt 79.

T7 .
134. I— e]— {Iomr ’17.

 

135.1115 223. 2'29. §—- Hemﬂdah TI.
:29. ‘23. 3’: “6 155% 3“?“ 3%. d w
a 1‘ 81- 9: Km I.
l v . . . e £7 . . .|”' 9.11115 .
E 1'44. 14.5. ms. 150. 168.§— Khawmﬁb 521.
g 232' 194,2. %' ﬂ. 2294— Lahemi 78.
. . . .
5 as: 271 m5. 307: .
E 322. 3%. 32'! 329. 339. — Magma}: 77.
E 33v". 3139. 395‘. 326 - 95:9 %
I— . -- &L IS I.
Enl‘utu Tomb of 2'1’. — E3: T7.
Tutzin 312. w '015ki 321.
Tﬁgw-Setﬁa 47. 59. 99. —~ gay £1311?!”
. — 05% 5.
_.. Eﬂm’it 78.
3:999 mm 2-
. _ ("
Umm Baraigﬁt 505. w. 3.2;,zhggi2'
-——- el-Bédﬁh 346. a “1323‘. 8. I
W 8‘ gm!” *3 Wareai “Ali 346.
‘— 69.193119? 847- el—Wmtah (near the F1.-
11112;, mum: of 69. yam) i. .19 33:
{Unua 73 — {near Aaaiﬁt‘ 5'8.
'Urﬁaﬁmeﬁe 2. 189- Wawa am 315. 885
e a. “ﬁnite Cement, the .9.
$33??? 301: ‘thtehousa 4.3
UEsrbeaen 1: 15. 3!. w'Wilkinwn ‘6 135' 130'
135. 150. m. 291. £1199 196" M“ 222‘ 3‘9“
— II. M. 248. 238. 359. . m . ' '
III. 269% 33215? 39% EEG-3:93:19: 213‘}; at 1”
e 88 L J . .l) C. zswnyh 5‘
Ziwiyet 3145159111 9. 19.
Verna :5 295 Zesken Tomb of 1%.
252911 5

Vaspaslau 189. $3. 359.

W355 'Ahbaa 255.
v Ahyagl 78.

mm! 345.831. etc.
Zodiac 54. 97.
Zuta, Tomb (If 71.
Page-440
Leipsic: Priméd by xxgeitkupf a ﬂute].
Page-441

Page-442
A}; m ‘5:
Page-443
AX DUE Lbb ELIE
Page-444
