58 MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT.

Near this column are the ruins of the Temple of Trajan.
Broken marble columns of surpassing beauty strew the ground,
or stand as silent monuments of departed splendor. Here, at one
time, this mighty man held court, or walked amid this forest of
columns as one of the greatest of earth. But he is gone, and only
these old sentinels stand where their master stood, and keep
watch over his fans, and at the same time they tell of the folly
of human greatness and the changeful nature of all things beneath
the sun.

There once stood a hill on this spot, just the height of this
column, and Trajan had his minions dig and bear it away, that
he might here, in the heart of “the Eternal City,” build his court
and rear a monument to perpetuate his name. Here in this ba-
silica the tribunes of Rome sat to judge the peOple. But were it
not for history, and the tales of tradition, we should walk amid
this wreck to-day and wonder what it all meant.

THE COLOSSEUM.

Nothing in Rome stands out more prominently than the ruins
of the Colosseum. It is right in the heart of the city, not far
from the tomb of Hadrian, which is a massive circular building,
and one of the land-marks of the city.

The Colosseum covers six acres of ground. On the outside it
is a perfect circle, on the inside it is elliptical, making the walls
of unequal thickness. The rising amphitheater is supported by
walls and arches of solid masonry. The work on this building
was done mainly by the Jews taken captive by Titus at the siege
of Jerusalem. They were brought here in countless thousands,
and put to this labor.

The very stubborn resistance made to the Roman armies, when
they did fall, embittered their conquerors against them, and the
more they oppressed and humiliated them. Fifteen thousand of
them died while building the Colosseum.

W onderful had been the predictions against them, and fearfully
were they fulﬁlled.

Moses said: “And the Lord shall scatter thee among all pe0ple,
from the one end of the earth even unto the other: and there
thou shall serve other gods, which neither thou nor thy fathers

 

 

