178 MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT.

we entered, the school was in full blast. There was not a seat or
a desk in the whole immense building. There are ﬁve hundred
professors engaged in the work of teaching. The twelve thousand
pupils were seated about in groups of fromﬁfty to one hundred,
on the ﬂoor, each one with his face to the teacher, who sat ﬂat
down, as they, upon a little movable platform. They all sat as
close together on the ﬂoor as possible. Most of them had a few
leaves of the Koran in their hands, and every one was repeating
his lesson out loud, while the professor’s voice could be heard
above the din. They rattled right along, neither teacher nor
pupil paying any attention to us or our presence. They all had
a sing-song tone. Some of the little fellows—for there were boys
not more than ten years old among them..—-had sheets of tin,
upon which they were learning to make ﬁgures, and to write.
Most of them, as they sung their lessons, swayed their bodies
from side to side in a sort of rhythmic motion. This, I am
informed, is the only school of importance in the whole
Turkish Empire, while in Constantinople, the capital and the
home of the Sultan, there are ﬁve foreign post-ofﬁce depart-
ments. I ' asked how it was, and was told that the Turks had no
post-ofﬁce department until about thirty-ﬁve years ago. Hardly
anybody in the Turkish dominions could read, and fewer still
could write, and they had no need of a post-eoﬂice. There were
so many foreigners 1n Constantinople, that each nation organized
a department of its own. After a while the Turks organized one,
but the foreigners found their own so convenient, that they re-
fused to give them up.

This Cairo school is digniﬁed with the title of university, but
few of either the twelve thousand pupils or the ﬁve hundred pro-
fessors can write, or know anything of the simplest rules of arith-
metic, and less of geography. The English, who are trying to
crane Egypt up, have taken hold of the matter of education.
Some few years ago they called upon these professors to take an
examination, but few of them took it. Out of thirty-nine teachers
who were examined in the very simplest characters in writing
and arithmetic, only ﬁve satisﬁed the examiners in arithmetic,
and not one in writing. And as it is here in Egypt, so is it all
over the Sultan’s dominions. Superstition, ignorance, and fanati-
cism are the foundation—stones on which this government rests.

