162 MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT.

Damascus, and from my heart I exclaimed, “I believe General
Gordon is right.” This place answers to every token. Just below
us, within a stone’s-throw, were some tombs, hewn out of the rock.
We went in and examined them. They were like the one described
by the Evangelists.

John tells us, “ Now in the place where he was cruciﬁed there
was a garden; and in the garden a new sepulcher, wherein was
never man yet laid. There laid they Jesus, therefore, because
of the Jews’ preparation day; for the sepulcher was nigh at
handf’

The door of this sepulcher is so low that one has to stoop to
look into it, as John did on the morning of the resurrection of
Jesus. The ante-chamber is large enough to hold a number of
persons, while the places prepared for the bodies lie along the
wall, so that an angel could sit “one at the head, and the other
at the feet, where the body of Jesus had lain.” In front of the
door there was a groove cut in the solid rock, perhaps a foot wide
and a foot deep. In this groove was a great stone like a mill-
stone, ﬂattened on one edge. This stone could be easily rolled
until it fell on its ﬂattened side immediately in front of the door.
Then it would be hard to roll away. The women knew this, and
asked, “Who shall roll us away the stone . . . ‘i’ for it was very
great.” Y

I was thoroughly convinced that this is the identical sepulcher
in which Jesus was buried.

After I reached home, I was told that when the Rev. Hugh
Price Hughes, a wise man, and a leader in Methodism in England,
visited this sepulcher, and studied the situation, he was so over-
whelmingly convinced, that‘ he threw himself down on the place
“ where the body of Jesus had lain.” General Gordon was
equally certain of this fact.

I turned my feet back to Jerusalem, feeling that I had been to
the true Golgotha of the Scriptures, and I felt glad that neither
Moslem nor Christian had fallen upon this place to destroy it by
mosque or church.

The day I visited the Church of the Holy sepulcher, we saw a
lot of angry men lined up, and a number of Turkish soldiers with
drawn swords, trying to keep the peace. It was Monday, and I
was. told that the day before there had been trouble between the

 

