MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT. 55

thousands that have bowed and kissed them. Just think of how
many soft lips must have been applied to this hard metal to wear
it away until it looks like a clubfoot, and yet here it stands, an
ocular demonstration that the thing can be done. I had been
laboring under the delusion that the Pope let the faithful kiss
his toe, and when the historian tells us that Luther, in his
search for peace, kissed the Pope’s toe, I did not know that this
was the toe he kissed.

But to return to what we saw in the Vatican,—-this treasure
of the wonders of the world. As I said, our guide, being a devout
Catholic, and of a noted family, secured for us special favors.

The sight that I prized above all others was the sight of the
Codex Vatican, one of the oldest and most highly prized copies of
the Scriptures in existence. The parchment upon which it is
written is in a perfect state of preservation. It is written in three
columns to the page, and the writing is remarkably clear and
distinct. This is not a copy, but is the original book, with its
binding and all. I am not a worshiper of either men, things, or
places; but I must confess to a veneration for this oldest copy
of the Word of God in existence, and I felt thankful to the au-
thorities of the Romish Church for its perfect preservation.

There is an immense number of valuable books and manuscripts
stored in the Vatican,—about one hundred and thirty thousand
volumes, and twenty-ﬁve thousand manuscripts, many of them
exceedingly valuable.

There are, in the building, two pillars of porphyry, said to have
been taken from Solomon’s Temple, but I take this, as many other
things, “with a grain of salt.” There are, however, enough upon
which we can rely to satisfy much-of our curiosity.

In the Sistine Chapel in the Vatican is the celebrated—I might
say the renowned—picture painted by Michael Angelo on the
wall above the altar. I was disappointed in this, as a whole,
though when taken in detail the characters represented are very
ﬁne. It strikes me as a fact, that one, however great a genius he
may he, cannot intelligently present as many things as are found
here in the compass of one picture.

This picture is called “The Last Judgment.” In it is por-
trayed Christ seated with the Virgin Mother, surrounded by
saints, patriarchs, and prophets, the archangel summoning the

