130 MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT.

quilt,” except that there was much of order in the placing of the
pieces and the arrangement of the many bright colors that com-
pose it. My tent was made of twelve main sections, running to
a point at the apex.- I counted the number of pieces in one of
these sections, and then estimated the number in the tent. There
were 4,620. Each piece was sewed upon a background, and I was
told the whole was done by men.

It is astonishing how quickly these tents are pitched and struck
by our Arab attendants. As soon as we are through with them
in the morning, they are taken down, rolled up, and packed upon
horses and asses. Our valises aud traveling-bags are carefully
placed in waterproof bags, and packed in the same way. Great
boxes of dishes and table-ware, with stoves and cooking utensils,
are alike piled upon these patient little animals, and packed over
the roughest road leading over the highest mountains, and if
anything has ever been broken or injured, I have not heard of it.
We are not afraid of losing the smallest thing.

Miss E. Redford, who has charge of our party, and who has
conducted several other parties through Palestine, told me of an
interesting incident. Two young men of the party, going to take
a swim in the Sea of Galilee, left their watches in her care,———one
a very valuable one. The young men failed to call for their
watches that night, and she placed them, with her own, under
her pillow. The next morning they broke camp very early, and
she forgot all about the watches until they had been riding several
hours. When she discovered her oversight, she called to Solie,
who was then her dragoman, as now, and told him about it. He
told her to rest perfectly easy; - she should ﬁnd them under her
pillow that night when she got to camp. When they rode up to
their camping-place, they found all the tents pitched. She rushed
in and felt under her pillow, and there were the three watches,
just as she left them.

We spent the Sabbath at Baalbek. All of our party mounted
their horses and rode over to View the ruins. I could not recon-
cile it to my conscience to go; so remained in camp until their
return. We had preaching in camp at one o’clock.

On the preceding Saturday night, as Miss Redford, Solie, and
I were discussing the Sunday excursion to the ruins, I told them
that the ﬁrst ruins I ever heard of when a boy were the ruins of

