28 MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT.

As I stood under the great dome and looked in every direction,
trying to take in the details of this massive structure, I could not
but ask myself the question, How was it possible for any one mind
to conceive all this before one stone was laid upon another? But
here it stands, 370 feet to the top of the cross. Its length is 550 feet,
and its width, 125 feet. It is in the form of a Latin cross. Look
which way you will, the proportions are perfect. There is har-
mony, and yet variety. I slowly wandered all over it, wondering,
wondering, at its massiveness and its details. The whole struck
me as a church built with a Catholic ideal. There is an immense
altar of white marble most beautifully carved and in perfect har-
mony of proportions, while before it stand wax candles four or
ﬁve feet long, six inches in circumference, mounted upon candle-
sticks twenty feet high. There are other candles of smaller di-
mensions, ranged round about the altar. I noticed some of these
burning during service. The stained-glass windows are of ex-
quisite beauty, all representing Scripture subjects. Statues are
in niches in the walls on every hand, and all are of superior
workmanship. I could write page after page, and not exhaust
the subject.

Since writing my last I have passed a Sabbath, and my experi-
ence has been unique.

. I rent a room in the Hotel Russell, and take my meals at res-
taurants as I want them, and on Sunday as I can get them.

I knew nothing of the customs here on the Sabbath. On Sun-
day morning, Dr. Gifﬁn and I started out about nine o’clock to
get our breakfast. The Doctor said, “I have my doubts about
our getting anything, for everything is closed up on Sunday until
after service.” We tramped through street after street. Not an
eating-house was open. At last the Doctor said, “Maybe we can
get a bite at the restaurant at the railroad station.” We went
there, and at the door was an officer to see that none but hungry
travelers should pass in. We told him we were Americans, just
in the country, and without more ado we pushed by him, and all
that we could get was a small loaf of bread with butter, and a cup
of tea for the Doctor and a glass of milk for me. In the strength
of this morsel of bread and glass of milk I had to go all day.

We went to Christ Church to hear F. B. Myer preach. On our
way we met three of our preachers that had just landed,— Brother

 

