 

56 MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT.

dead to judgment. On the right are the redeemed; on the left,
the lost. Very many individual characters are pOrtrayed on the
wall. To me, the 'whole thing is confusing. I ﬁnd the same
fault with other pictures over which critics rave. The blending
of the visible and the invisible, the earthly and the heavenly, in
the same picture, is to my mind an incongruity, as well as an im-
possibility. It is not natural, and hence does not appeal to me.

We visited the Hall of the Immaculate Conception, where this
dogma was proclaimed,-—a dogma that was intended to deify the
mother of our Lord, and for which there is not a shadow of proof
in the Scriptures. But here we stood in a hall where one of the
greatest of the popes,—esteemed and declared infallible,——sur-
rounded by his cardinals, solemnly announced this dogma to the
world, and ﬁxed it in the Church forever.

Immediately under the dome of St. Peter’s is a canopy, on
which art has expended its greatest skill, the pillars of which are
said to be copies of some in Solomon’s Temple. Under this can-
opy the heads of St. Peter and St. Paul, we were told, are buried.
In fact, the bodies of these men are said to be divided up, and
fragments are buried at different places. We saw all these places.
Under this canopy, and over the heads of the Apostles, is a chest
of silver, some twenty inches long and twelve inches wide, and
the same in height. Whenever a new cardinal is made, a piece
of his stole is cut off and deposited in this box as evidence that
he is a cardinal. We caught frequent views of the garden and
grounds of the Pope. They are artistically laid out, and are very
beautiful. I could write pages, where I have written paragraphs,
about St. Peter’s and the Vatican.

St. Peter’s Church, according to the best authorities, occupies
the site 'of Nero’s Circus, and is thought by the same authorities
to be the identical Spot where St. Paul was executed. These au-
thorities differ from Conybeare and Howson on this subject, the
latter settling the matter, to my mind.

In‘St. Philip’s Church I saw Cardinals Cassetta and Svampa
engaged in making saints. The church is a very large one, and
I think I will not overestimate the number when I say there were
ten thousand candles burning in the building. Beside the altar,
and every other available place, there were lighted candles, and
then the entire wall from ﬂoor to t0p of dome was studded with

 

 

 

