 

174 MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT.

showing me all about it. He was positively annoying. At last
I told him if he was after “backsheesh” he would get no more
from me, and to clear out. I shook off one, only to make place
for another. They would pick up pieces of stone and offer to sell
them to me. At last I told the most persistent one to take it to
the top of the Pyramid for me, and lay it up till I came next
time. He was sharp enough to see the joke, and dropped his rock,
and my acquaintance, at the same time. Another crossed my
path at every turn, urging me to take a ride on his donkey. At
last I said to him, “ You take him and eat him.”-—“What I” said
he; “ eat a donkey? ”—“ Yes; eat him all up. I don’t want him.”
At this he broke out into a big laugh, and sought another cus-
tomer. '

THE SPHINX.

When I visited the Sphinx, I was disappointed at ﬁrst. It did
not look as large as I expected. But the two Pyramids in whose
shadow it stands were so large that they dwarfed everything around
them. The more I looked at the Sphinx, the more I admired its
symmetry and proportions. It is indeed a wonderful piece of
sculpture. Near it is the Temple of the Sphinx. For ages the
sands of the Nubian Desert had covered it from sight and from the
memory of man.- Now a large portion of it has been uncovered.
It is built upon the same large scale as the Sphinx and the Pyra-
mids. I was struck with the great size- of the stones laid up in
the walls. Some were ten and twelve feet long and six in width.
How thick they were, I had no means of ascertaining.

The wealth, labor, and skill expended on these idolatrous tem-
ples ought to shame us, who claim to be worshipers of the one
true God, who made heaven and earth and all things therein.
Not that we are to rival them in the construction of temples, but
in the expenditure of effort to spread the knowledge of the truth
to the ends of the earth.

We next visited the Museum at Cairo, containing some of the
rarest treasures of the archmologist to be found anywhere. The
Pyramids and the graves of-the great of bygone ages have been
riﬂed of their mummied treasures. Nothing has been too sacred
for sacrilegious hands. Kin-gs with their golden crowns, queens
with their ornaments of rubies, pearls, and other rare and costly

