MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT. 43

talk of ten minutes each upon some tOpic kindred to the essay,
and the rest of the session is given to whoever might gain the
ﬂoor for a ﬁve-minutes’ speech. The opportunity for these five-
minutes’ speeches revealed the fact that we are a body of Speakers.
Three and four would spring to their feet at the fall of the gave],
that stopped the man on the ﬂoor. shouting, “Mr. President,”
and this shouting would continue until one of them was recog-
nized, when the rest would subside until the gavel shut off the
wind of the last recognized.

One afternoon our English brethren got into a discussion over
the Boer war. There is a large party opposed to the war, who
are very outspoken. We Americans sat off and enjoyed the con-
test.

The news of the attempted assassination of President McKinley
stirred our British brethren most profoundly, and their resolu-
tions and speeches showed their deep love for the United States
and their interest in us.

Some very ﬁne speeches were made, both by Englishmen and
Americans.

OTHER THINGS IN LONDON.

There are a few other things about London that I deSire to
mention. Among them is a piece of American enterprise.

The English had built an underground railway. The trains
were drawn by a steam-locomotive. I went through it once. It
is a smoky, dusty, “stuffy” sort of a place. But a company of
Americans have built what is known among the English as the
“tup’ny tube,”-——that, is twopenny tube, as twopence, or four
cents in our currency, is the fare, whether you go one station or
the whole length of the tube. It is built deep underground, and
is lined with porcelain bricks. The whole is lighted and run by
electricity; hence there is no smoke or dust. The cars are con-
structed much after the American pattern. I had to go through
this tube twice a day in going to and from the Conference. It
was always crowded,——in a word, it is the most popular line in
London.

One can hardly have seen London until he has visited West-
minster Abbey. It is a. renowned and wonderful building,—its
history most prominent and important, running back into the

