54 MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT.

It is said to be the richest in the world. Then there were shown
us the robes worn by Pius IX on his jubilee, made expressly for
the occasion. These robes blazed with gold wrought into the very
texture of the fabric. These were never used but the one time,
and are now laid away, only to be looked at. These are only a
part of the many things we saw in this home of treasures.

We were conducted through portions of the Vatican, extra
privileges being accorded us. We were permitted to see the Pope’s
carriages. They were twelve in number, and of the richest and
most elaborate patterns, each one differing from the other. We
were accompanied by the Pope’s coachman, who, our guide told
us, talked more to “His Holiness” than any other man.

He opened all the carriages for us, and let us look at the luxu-
rious cushions and the rich trimmings. Had we seen any one
of them alone, we should have thought it ﬁne, but the last one
shown us was simply gorgeous. I wish I could describe it; I wish
I could give you an idea of it. It blazed all over with gold. It
was of immense size, and contained but one elaborately cushioned
and adorned seat. Figures of cherubim of gold were under the
dashboard, and every part, from top to bottom, was constructed
with an eye to beauty, grandeur, richness, and effect. No horses
were ever attached to it, but six stalwart men, dressed for the oc-
casion, drew it, with its honored occupant, the only time it was
ever used,—on the occasion of the Pope’s jubilee. As I stood
and looked Upon all this display of wealth and beauty, and heard
our guide tell of the display of this “vicegerent” of the lowly
Nazarene, who, IO far as we know, never rode but once, and that
on the “colt of an ass,” just such as we saw in every street in
Rome and Jerusalem, I could but exclaim, “What alcontrast!
The servant has become greater than his Master!” Hear the
herald of the only potentate, King of kings, and Lord of lords,
“Fear not, daughter of Zion; behold thy king cometh, sitting on
an ass’s colt”; and then as I look upon this his servant lifted
from the pit, as the purchase of his blood, as he rides in all the
pomp and pageant of the mightiest of earthly kings, drawn amid
bowing multitudes by men of his own race, in amazement I ex-
claim, “ What a contrast!”

There is a bronze statue of St. Peter in the church, that has
actually had the toes of the right foot worn away by the multiplied

 

