MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT. 133

that were fully twelve inches long. Then there were sheep with
immense tails as large as milk-pans. These tails are composed
of pure fat. I saw many of them dressed and hanging up in the
market.

As we passed through Baalbek in the early morning, I saw a
strange sight. A man drove a band of sheep along the street.
A butcher stepped out of his shop and bought one. He brought
out a shallow vessel, and, throwing the sheep down in the middle
of the street, held its head over the tub, cut its throat, and waited
for the poor struggling thing to die. The street was not more
than ten feet wide, and as it lay in the middle, we had to ride
round it. Other butchers had theirs hung up in the front of their
little shops, and were skinning and dressing them, where all
passers—by could see the operation.

We began to realize that we were in a land where customs
never change. I wish I could describe to you the plows we saw
here and all over Palestine,-—simply a crooked stick with a
single handle, drawn by two diminutive oxen. Not a single
change or improvement has been made since Elijah “found
Elisha, the son of Shaphat, who was plowing with twelve yoke of
oxen before him, and he with the twelfth.”

A French company, seeing the vast amount of merchandise
carried from Beirut over the mountains of Lebanon on donkeys
and camels, and in wagons, conceived the idea of building a rail-
road to Damascus, and did it; but the people will not patronize
it to any extent. The freight trains go by almost empty, while
we passed long strings of camels, and a number of wagons with
four mules driven tandem, toiling slowly over the mountains.
What do they want with a railroad, when camels can carry such
loads?

As we passed up the great valley that lies between Lebanon
and Anti-Lebanon, we visited what is said to be the tomb of
Noah. It is in a building, and is, by my measurement, 110 feet
long. The Moslems claim that Noah is buried here. What part
of this long mound his body occupies, or whether they believe he
ﬁlls it all, we were not told. Nor was it a matter of any special
importance.

We reached our camp at Baalbek just at night, Saturday, Oc-
tober 12th. From this point we were to live in camp, and the

