180 MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT.

great men of the land, and was thus eminently ﬁtted to be a
leader and a law-giver.

Where populous On once stood, there 1s now not a house, nor a
vestige of ruins even, but the rich plain has been smoothed down
and has been under cultivation for centuries.

Not far from the obelisk, that alone marks'the site of the great
city, we were shown a large sycamore tree, called the “Tree of
the Virgin Mary.” Under it, it is said, she rested when she came
into Egypt to escape the wrath of Herod, who sought her young
child’s life. I have nosort of conﬁdence in any such traditions,
and look upon the whole thing- as a sort of idolatry.

This sycamore is of the ﬁg-bearing variety. Amos was a
‘i 'gatherer of sycamore fruit.” The ﬁgs grow in great clusters on
the body of the large branches. They were not ripe at the time,
but are said'to be a very inferior fruit, eaten only by the poorer
classes._

While in Palestine I had the pleasure of seeing a carob tree,
and the fruit. The fruit is a thick, dark—colored bean, and is the
“husks that the swine did eat,” spoken of in the parable of the
prodigal son. And, while I think of it, I rode on horseback over
much of Palestine and visited many places of Egypt, and I never
saw- a single- hog. .The “steepplace” where the two thousand
ran down into the Sea of Galilee was pointed out to me, but no
swine did I see feeding on the hills. There may have been hogs
there, but I did not see them. .

While 1n Cairo I heard a band playing, and looking out of my
window, I saw a ﬁne carriage preceded by the band. The driver
of the carriage was more gorgeously dressed than any man I saw
in Egypt. The predominant color of his dress was a deep red,
covered in every available place with wide gold lace. On the
rear of the carriage stood a footman, also dressed most elaborately
in red and gold. On each side of the carriage walked a servant.
The curtains of thiscarriage were closely drawn. It was followed
by three other carriages, by each of which walked two footmen.
I thought some royal person was passing. But when I made
inquiry, I found that one of the leading men, who had three
wives, had shown to those in authority that he was able to sup-
port another wife, and this ﬁrst carriage contained his bride of
the fourth edition. Thelother carriages contained his other wives,

