26 MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT.

“Here lyes Dame Mary Page, relict of Sir Gregory Page, Bar’t.
She departed this life March 11, 1738, in the 56th year of her
age.”

On the opposite side is this:-——-

“In 67 months she was tap’t 66 times. Had taken away 240
gallons of water without ever repining at her case, or even fear-
ing the opperation.”

She had a watery life, if she did n’t have a watery grave.

If I should have the time to go through this cemetery again, I
may ﬁnd other things to write about.

I went into CrosbyHall, built in the time of Richard III, in
1466. Of course, it is not as it was when ﬁrst built. It stands
upon the same ground, and a few fragments of the old hall have
been worked into the modernized structure.

‘ Rev. Dr. C. M. Gifﬁn of Scranton, Pennsylvania, who crossed
the ocean with me, has been a great help to me in more ways
than I can tell. He is familiar with London and London ways,
and steers me clear in many a channel, and can point out almost
everything of interest. He took me through the Bank of England,
not one of, but the greatest monetary institution in the world. It
occupies a plain solid-looking building in the business heart of
London. There is not a window Opening to the outside world.
Where there are window-frames, they are closed with solid ma-
sonry. The inside is illuminated by skylights. There is no
bustle and noise among the officers and attachés of the bank, but
everything moves like clockwork.

The ﬁrst church I visited was St. Helen’s, in Bishopsgate, the
next oldest church in London. The walls are built in Scotch
style, of rough stones and dark mortar, but they are built to last.
This church was founded in 1216. It was then a Roman Catholic
.church with a monastery attached. It has been largely rebuilt
and restored. It is now a high church. The ceiling is in the
oldest style of architecture. It has two aisles separated by arches.
In one corner of the building is a little chapel, where any one,
during the day, can go and pray and meditate. I found several
in there thus engaged. The ﬂoor is a very graveyard. You walk
over the dead at every step. Stones with the name and epitaph
of the dead are let in, and form part of the ﬂoor. Some of the
tombs are like great monuments, rising several feet from the ﬂoor.

 

 

