176 MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT.

of old Memphis was a granite statue of Rameses II, forty-seven
feet in height. It was lying on its back, with one of the legs
broken off. With this exception, it is perfect. A masterly piece
of workmanship it is, too. The features are perfect, and are very
expressive. There was still another of the same king (for he was
perhaps the mightiest monarch that ever reigned in Egypt. His
was a very long reign, extending over sixty years), but it was
surrounded by the ﬂood-waters of the Nile, and we could not
reach it. -

TOMBS OF THE KINGS AND SACRED BULLS.

We rode some miles farther, and reached the tomb of Mena,
one of the kings. It was built of stone, and all the walls were
literally covered with ﬁgures carved in the stone. The workman-
ship was of a superior character. The surface of the ﬁgures was
as smooth as if they had just been chiseled. Many of them were
colored, the color as distinct and clear as if just laid on. I sup-
pose the whole was a history of the king who had it built. There
were thirty-one different rooms to this sepulcher. The walls
were ten or twelve feet in height, and every foot of the surface
.was covered with this scenic writing. Some were battle-scenes,
some hunting, some rural, some sacriﬁcial. No two of them
seemed to be alike.

We next visited the Serapeum, .or tombs of the sacred bulls.
The bull was the principal idol of the Egyptians. When one
died, he was embalmed and buried with great pomp, and the
whole land went into mourning until another was found. He
must be a red bull with a crescent in his forehead, and some re-
semblance of a ﬂying eagle on his back. When found, he .was
led in triumph to his temple, and the whole nation rejoiced. It
has been only a few years since this sepulcher of the sacred bulls
was found. There is an archway of stone eighteen hundred feet
long, with twenty-four sarcophagi on each side. Each sarcopha-
gus is made of solid granite, some red and others black granite,
all polished in the highest style. They are all the same size,—
thirteen feet long, eight feet wide, and twelve feet high. The
lower, part, or cofﬁn proper, is of one solid piece of granite, while ’
the lid is also of one piece, three feet thick.

It is a strange fact that- a people so. scientiﬁc and learned as

