88 MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT.

idea of its appearance when Minerva’s Temple gleamed upon its
summit, and Paul lit it with the glory of the gospel, than we can
of the few moldering bones of the soldiers of Marathon, on which
we gazed the day before in the Museum.

ATHENS. -— (CONTINUED.)

From the AcrOpolis one can see the new walls of the Stadium,
being built with the money left by M. Georges Averoff (one mil-
lion dollars). Here is where the Olympian games were celebrated.
This spot was selected by Lycurgus, 350 B. C.

These games .were celebrated at another point until Lycurgus
made the change. Two parallel hills, joined at the upper part,
formed the groundwork of the Stadium. Around on these hills,
seats were built, making an amphitheater very much the shape
of an elongated horseshoe. It covers an area of 80,000 square
yards. It is 854 feet long, and will seat 70,000 people.

The building of the present seats is of the most substantial
character. All are of white marble, built against the solid hills,
and rising one above the other in regular order. In clearing
away the débmis, they found the old starting-post,—a marble
column eight or ten feet high, with two faces looking in opposite
directions. This they have set up as a starting-post again. The
design is to restore the old Olympian games. Between the Sta-
dium and the Acropolis stand the ruins of the Temple of Jupiter
Olympus, said to be the second largest ruin in Athens. It was
commenced 500 B. C., but not completed until A. D. 126. Thir-
teen columns are still standing. They are of the Corinthian
order, and are ﬁfty-four feet high. A few years ago, one of these
columns was blown down by a storm, revealing the manner of their
construction. They are composed of sections, or drums, some ﬁve
or six feet in length, ﬁtted one upon the other with such accuracy
that one can with difﬁculty, even at this age, discover the joints.

A most interesting day was spent in a trip to the Temple of
Mysteries, some ﬁfteen or twenty miles from Athens. This was
the objective point for the racers and combatants of the Olympian
games. A torchlight procession was formed after night, and
marched all the way to this temple. The road to this temple was
called the “Sacred Way.” Midway, they passed the Temple of

