144 MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT.

calm and smooth as a sea of glass; but while we were at lunch a
sudden wind came down upon it, that lashed it into waves and
covered it with whitecaps.

TIBERIAS.

Our plan was to go by boat to Tiberias, and notwithstanding
the strong wind, we embarked in two boats, rowed by a lot of
stalwart Arabs. After rowing some miles and turning a certain
point, they hoisted up sail, and we fairly ﬂew over the waters.
Time and again, when an extra large wave would strike us, the
spray would ﬂy entirely over the boat; but it was a most exhila-
rating ride, and one that will linger as a sweet memory with us
all.

When I saw the Sea of Galilee and the Dead Sea, I involun-
tarily exclaimed, “Thank God! here is one thing over which
they can build neither church nor mosque; where they can’t
change the location, and where, when we see it, we know it.”
From what I have seen all over this country, if men had the
power they would lift this beautiful sea from its setting, trans-
port it to some foreign land, and build a church over its waters,
and light the whole with wax candles.

We landed at the town of Tiberias, where we camped for the
night. Brother Pepper, his son Sam, and I took a swim in the
sea. It was indeed a luxurious bath, and we felt very much re-
freshed.

This town of Tiberias was here in the time of our Lord. but I
do not remember that any visit of his to it is ever ”mentioned.
John tells us, in a parenthesis, “ Howbeit there came other boats
from Tiberias, nigh unto the place where' they did eat bread, after
that the Lord had given thanks.”

It is on the western shore of the sea, which is twice called the Sea
of Tiberias by John. We look in vain for other cities made memo-
rable by the visits and miracles of Jesus, and yet this Roman city
stands now where it did in the days of the incarnation, the haven
of ships now, as then. A mile or two below the town are the
celebrated hot Springs, that have been regarded as a sanitarium
since long before the days of Herod the Great. When taken with
his last sickness, he was borne hither, but too late. The water,
as it comes out of the mountain side in a great stream, is hot

