MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT. 135

lar clapping of hands in unison. Then a piper with a rude reed
ﬂute stepped out, and six men joined hands round him, and be-
gan a most peculiar dance. The crowd became more and more
excited, and the dancing increased in violence. This continued
for some time, and the six seated themselves, and one of our
muleteers, taking a dagger in each hand, began to dance and to
ﬂourish the knives in the most weird and desperate manner. He
would fall upon one knee, and ﬂourish the knives so rapidly, that
the eye could not keep up with their movements. All the while
the bridegroom was moving about, the observed of all observers.
I asked where the bride was, and when she would appear. I was
then given the history of a Syrian marriage.

When a young man sees a girl that he wants, he goes to his
father and gets him to go to the father of the girl and ask for her.
She may care nothing for him,— in fact, may love another. But
that makes no sort of difference. If the father of the girl is
pleased with the proposition, he goes to the local sheik, who ﬁxes
a price that the young man is to pay her father. He then sends
her a ring and a veil, and the whole matter is settled. They are
as good as married. Matters may stand for weeks, or even a year.
When the girl is ready, the friends of the groom assemble at his
house, as in the instance we saw, and sing and dance and enjoy
themselves for three nights, the bride making no appearance all
this time. After three days she goes to his home, and they begin,
life together.

Once after this—at Tiberias—we were invited to a wedding,
and the ladies of our party were invited in to see the bride. They
found her seated among a lot of women, undergoing a process of
tattooing her feet. We men were ungallantenough to peek in
through the window, and we, too, saw her. She was a mere child.
They had a green substance, something like hot sealing-wax,
smeared over the top of her foot, and with a sharp instrument
they were pricking the ﬁgures into it. The most painful expres-
sion was on her face.

