30 MY TRIP To THE ORIENT.

After the service, feeling quite hungry, I went conﬁdently for
:a restaurant; but they were all still closed. What was I to do?
That glass of milk and one little piece of bread could hardly com-
fort me till nine o’clock next day,-—-the earliest hour at which
one can get breakfast at a restaurant. You remember God sent
the ravens to feed Elijah. Could I expect such deliverance? I
- accosted a man on the street and asked, “ Are there no restaurants
open?” Just as he said, “Not one,” I felt a tap on the shoulder,
and turning round, Mr. Waters, a young ship acquaintance, said,
“Doctor, are you looking for a restaurant? They are all closed.
Come, go with me to my hotel and take supper with me.” The _
raven had come, and I got my supper. I took my young friend
with me to a Methodist church that night. There we met Bishop
Galloway, who, I found after service, was as hungry as I had been
a little while before. You see, our entertainment does not begin
until the day before the Conference opens; hence we have to take
care of ourselves, which we found to be a hard thing to do on
Sunday.

BRITISH MUSEUM.

I spent four hours slowly wandering among the wonders and
treasures of this place. It is too much to attempt to describe,
It is a very treasure-house of wonders and curiosities. When I
entered the archaeological departments I was enchained, and
spent so much of my time there that I had but little left for other
things and other departments.

The archaaological wealth of the buried cities of the East is
gathered and treasured here. I felt assured that I was looking
upon things that Jonah saw in Nineveh; that Daniel saw in
Babylon; that Jacob and Joseph saw in Egypt. Covered over
for thousands of years, they were kept undisturbed until God’s
good time arrived for their unearthing; and now this mightiest
and wealthiest of empires has laid them up and labeled them for
the pleasure and proﬁt of His people. Here are things that set
the seal of truth upon Scripture revelation and history. Every
fact speaks for God and his truth. These revelations have given
a voice to stones and clay, that should make glad the heart of
Christendom. While unbelievers carp and quibble, God reigns;
and when the time comes, he will overthrow all his enemies with

 

 

 

