MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT. 45

each side, with their ends to the President. It struck me as an
awkward arrangement.

All the seats or benches in the House of Lords were covered
with crimson morocco, while those in the House of Commons
were in black. I went into all the rooms to which visitors are
allowed.

On Sunday, September 8th, I was appointed to preach at
St. John’s Square Methodist Church. In going to the church I
had to pass St. John’s Gate. This is an arch of stone, spanning
the street, said to have been placed there by Julius Caesar when
he was in Britain. Near it is Smithﬁeld, where John Rogers
was burned at the stake in 1555, his wife and nine children wit-
nessing the awful sight, the youngest of the children being still
at the breast. - Two others, John Bradford'and John Philpot, in
1556 and 1557, consecutively, were burned on the same spot. A
feeling of awe came over me as I read the record of the martyr-
dom of these faithful servants of God, who “loved not their lives
unto death.”

The Wesleyan Methodists are doing a wonderful work among
the poor of London. They have almost the entire Church organ-
ized for work, and they work. But they complain that they are
not getting hold of the better classes, as they desire. I think I
see why it is; they have made the work for the poor a hobby,
and in their zeal for the one class, they have neglected the other.
This ought they to have done, and not leave the other undone.
The invariable result of stressing any one thing too much is to
lose at other and vital points. Jesus announced the fact “that
the poor have the gospel preached to them,” but he did not con-
ﬁne his labors to them. Had he done so, the wife of Chuza, and
others of means, would not have ministered of their substance
unto him. At his death his body would have gone into the grave
with the wicked, that had been prepared for him, had not one of
his rich friends, Joseph of Arimathea, come to the rescue; for
the literal translation of Isaiah liii, 9, “And he made his grave
with the wicked, and with the rich in his death,” is,“ “They pre-
pared his grave with the wicked, but he was with the rich in his
death.”

I repeat and emphasize the fact, that it is fatal to any cause to
stress any one point too much, or cultivate any one part of the
ﬁeld to the neglect of another.

