148 MY TRIP TO THE ORIEAT.

most of their great battles; here the great Napoleon hurled his
hosts against his foes. Just to our left rise the mountains of Gil-
boa, where Saul and his three sons were slain in one day. I could
not but call up the lament of David over the fall of these truly
great men: “The beauty of Israel is slain upon thy high places:
how are the mighty fallen! Tell it not in Gath, publish it not in
the streets of Askelon ; lest the daughters of the Philistines rejoice,
lest the daughters of the uncircumcised triumph. Ye mountains
of Gilboa, let there be no dew, neither let their be rain, upon you,
nor ﬁelds of offerings.”

Some ﬁve or six miles away from where the camp of Israel
was that night is the little village of Endor, nestling up to the
hill where Saul made that visit to the witch. We could see in the
distance the site of Beth-shan, where the Philistines took the
body of Saul and nailed it to the wall.

I shall ever after this have the picture of these plains,
mountains, and towns in my mind as I read the history connected
with them.

We passed through the little village of Shunem, where that
great woman entertained Elisha, and built him a chamber on the
wall. We saw the ﬁeld, doubtless, where her little boy took sick,
and we could look up all the way to Carmel, where she rode in
such haste to lay her troubles upon the heart of the man of God.

N AZARETH.

After this day, crowded with so many scenes of interest, we
camped at Nazareth. Before riding into town we ascended the
hill just above the place, where we enjoyed a most charming view
of the village ‘and the surrounding country. This hill is called
the “Mount of Precipitation,” and tradition has it that here the
Jews took our Lord to “ cast him down headlong.” But the record
tells us “ the brow of the hill on which their city was built.” In
the ﬁrst place, the city is not built on this hill, and in the next
place, I could see no place where a man could be thrown
headlong. A little below the town is another hill, that is said to
be the place. I ignored both these, and took a stroll through the
town. I found several places where a man might be hurled
headlong over a precipice from twelve to twenty feet to his death.

The customs of this people have never changed. They dig for

