MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT. 163

Coptic and the Roman Catholic Christians about who should
sweep the dust on a. part of the ﬂoor about the sepulcher.

The Roman, the Greek, the Coptic, and Armenian, and perhaps
others, have their section of the ﬂoor assigned to them, and any
invasion of one another’s rights is met with blows, and sometimes
with death. The Turkish soldiers have to be ever on hand to
quell these disturbances. On Sunday they had come to blows,
and several had been knocked down and bruised. They were not
satisﬁed with the results of Sunday’s ﬁght, and had assembled in
larger numbers to have it out. What a spectacle does this pre-
sent to the world, and to these followers of Mohammed, when
men will ﬁght and kill each other over the dust of the ﬂoor. And
yet this is the legitimate result of “ worshiping the creature more
than the Creator, who is over all God, blessed forever.” Men
forget the lesson of the brazen serpent, It was taken with Israel
into Canaan, and after a time they commenced to worship it. Of
Hezekiah it is said, “He removed the high places, and brake the
images, and cut down the groves, and brake in pieces the brazen
serpent that Moses had made: for unto those days the children
of Israel did burn incense to it: and he called' it Nehushtan,”
which means a piece of brass. It was nothing more.

At one . place there was a stone pillar protected by wire gauze,
called the pillar of Moses. By it lay a rod. The faithful can
poke this rod through an opening left for it, and touch the pillar
and then kiss the end of the rod. On one side were three stones,
also protected by wire, but a little end of each was left sticking
out. One of these stones was brought from Sinai, one from the
Jordan, and one from Mount Moriah. Do you know that the
ends of these stones are kissed by the faithful as they visit this
holy place? They are good, hard rocks, and of good size, or they
would, like the foot of the statue of St. Peter at Rome, be kissed
away. But, then, that is a matter of small importance, as there
are plenty more of the same sort, where these came from, and are
just as sacred. '

We were conducted down the Via Dolorosa, and had the several
stations of that way pointed out to us. One is shown where there
is a hand-print in the solid rock, and we were gravely told that
that print was made by the hand of Christ as he staggered under
his cress and fell against the wall.

