Q

132 MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT.

this latter size. Enough was left to give an idea of the stupen-
dous grandeur of the building, and the utter desolation that lay
all about these silent witnesses of its former grandeur, made
the picture complete. Of all the ruins I had visited from Rome
to this place, these struck me as the greatest.

Baalbek was once a great city. Standing at the head of the
great valley lying between the Lebanon and Anti-Lebanon ranges
of mountains, at the fountain of the river bearing the same name,
being right on the great artery of commerce between the East and
the West, it was at one time one of the busiest and most important
cities of the Old World. Beneath the soil, on every hand lie
streets, and homes, and palaces that have been buried for cen-
turies.

An object-lesson was given us of how this and other cities have
been buried in this land. Some ten days before our arrival, a
fearful storm and cloudburst had struck the mountains round
about. It tore great rents in the mountain sides, and brought
down hundreds of thousands of tons of rock and earth. I saw
places in the valley where hundreds of acres of land had been
covered with rocks. Six persons, four horses, and a number of
sheep and goats in Baalbek and vicinity were drowned, and the
carcasses of the animals still lay near the city.- In places, the
roadway was covered to the depth of several feet with earth and
rocks.

If one storm could do so much, how easily can we believe that
the storms of centuries could bury whole cities many feet deep.

As I have said, the spring at Baalbek forms a river right where
it breaks out from under the mountain. It was interesting to
watch the people as they came and went. Men and women with
their water-jars would wade right into the spring, st00p down,
ﬁll their vessels, and wade out again. There was not a con-
venience about the whole place.

Great ﬂocks of sheep and goats were driven up, from time to
time, to be watered. They, too, would wade in, or, goat-like,
kneel on the bank and drink. Camels would usually go in and
lie down in the cool water. Some of the goats had the longest
ears I ever saw. They would hang down by the side of their
heads like long pieces of leather, and when they drank, their ears
would be submerged several inches in the water. I saw some

 

 

