44 MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT.

centuries. It holds the dust of kings and queens of the most
illustrious line, and while no royal body has been laid within its
walls for several hundred years, yet tablets erected to the mem-
ory of names from other walks in life have been added to the
list.

We are so accustomed to the use of the adjective “lofty,” that
when we speak of the lofty arches of the Abbey we feel sure you
will fall short in your estimate of them. Nothing in the building
impressed me more than they. I have never seen anything ap-
proximating them. Even St. Paul’s, in its grandeur and massive-
ness, hardly approaches it. The marble statues and ﬁgures that
stand in great profusion on every side are of the same colossal
mold.

I saw the coronation chair. It is a regular heirloom of the
kingdom. About the only things to commend it are its age and
the. fact that all the kings and queens of England have been
crowned in it. I think if the man who made it had known that
it was to survive the ages, and occupy so honorable a position,
he would have modeled it after a different pattern and laid upon
it more lines of beauty. As it is, it is a square-box affair, with a
moderately high straight back, coming to a point at the top.
Under it is a great stone perhaps two feet long and ten inches
thick. I could not see the width. It was brought from Scotland.
The Scotch kings and queens used to sit upon it to be crowned,
and now every potentate of England, when crowned, must sit
upon this stone.

There is one piece of sculpture said to be the ﬁnest in the
Abbey. It is of white marble, representing some duke, with his
wife dying in his arms, terriﬁed at the approach of Death, which
is symbolized as a skeleton wrapped in a white sheet. The ex-
pression upon the duke’s face is one of indescribable terror as
Death approaches with eyeless sockets, grinning teeth, and ﬂesh-
less arms.

From Westminster Abbey I went to the Parliament House.
It is a stupendous building, worthy of so great a nation. A1-
together, the seats in the House of Lords and in the House of
Commons were not so ﬁne, artistic, or convenient as I expected
to see. They were simply long benches; some of them faced
the presiding ofﬁcer, but the majority of them were placed on

 

 

