MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT. 57

them. Nor were they stuck about at random, but they were
arranged so as to produce the best effect. The two cardinals
(one of whom, it is thought, will be the next pope) were dressed
in red, with red hats on their heads. A great choir assisted with
its music in rendering high mass. If the men whose names were
linked with this service were not made saints, it will be no fault
of these cardinals, judging from the manner in which they con-
' ducted the service.

OSTIAN WAY.

We took a drive of several miles on the Ostian Way to St. Paul’s
Church, which is outside the city limits. Tradition has it that
here St. Paul was beheaded.

Our guide told us, in all seriousness, that “when his head was
cut off, it gave three jumps, and that wherever it struck, a foun-
tain of pure water spouted out.” And as the fountains are there,
thousands believe it. Anyway, they have built one of the most
magniﬁcent churches on the spot. We saw nothing outside of
St. Peter’s that excelled it.

In one of the chapels of this church, which I estimated to be
three hundred feet long, not including the altar space, there are
eighty great columns of solid marble, in four rows. ' These
columns must be four or ﬁve feet in diameter, and forty or ﬁfty
feet high. The ﬂoor—as in all the churches in Rome—is of
marble, beautifully laid in various colors. The pillar to which
the Apostle was bound just before his martyrdom is shown in
this church.

THE BASILICAT

We visited the ruins of an immense basilica, in the midst of
which is the Column of Trajan. This column is the most stupen-
dous monument of ancient Rome. It has survived destruction
by having a statue of St. Peter placed upon it.

It stands 135 feet in height. It records, in bas-relief ﬁgures,
arranged in spiral order from base to summit, the victories of
Trajan over the Dacians. There are two thousand ﬁve hundred
ﬁgures on the column, consisting of men, horses, arms, machines
of war, trophies, etc. It is remarkable how very perfect and
distinct these ﬁgures are to-day.

 

