82 MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT.

upon it, if there ever was any. Not only so, but there are no
houses, or even ruins, round about it. The wash and change of
this country is marvelous. I often wondered how it is that whole
cities have been buried ten, ﬁfteen, twenty feet deep, and that
it requires the spade and cart of the archwologist to unearth
them. But I have seen enough to fully satisfy my mind that
this is done in most instances by the rains washing the soil from
the mountains. At Corinth, I saw the clearest exempliﬁcation of
this.

Below Mars’ Hill is the market-place, where Paul, before being
taken to the Areopagus, disputed with them daily. We walked
through this market-place, that has been covered with earth for
ages, and had pointed out to us the stalls and stores where the
busy multitudes then talked and traded. God has kept locked
' up in this earthly treasure-house—much of it the soil washed
from Mars’ Hill—not only the stores, but the record of the fact
that here the superstitious Athenians assembled and spent their
time “in telling or hearing some new thing.” Many of the cus-
toms of these people, while in a measure modiﬁed, have come
down to the present, unchanged. Night after night I stood on
the balcony of our hotel and looked out upon a scene I never
witnessed before. There is a plaza in front of the hotel, and as
the evening comes on, long rows of small, round, iron tables are
set out, and chairs set by them. As the shadows of evening
gather, the crowds gather with them, until thousands are seated
round the tables, where diminutive cups of coffee, and glasses of
water, and in a few instances wine, are served them. And there
they sit, and talk, and discuss matters until late at night. There
is a music-stand in the midst, and eight or ten musicians dis-
course sweet music until a late hour of the night. The crowds
come and go all the time. I walked out in the midst of them
several times and found them very quiet and orderly. I could
not understand a word that was spoken. “It was Greek to me.”
But I have no doubt the very scene that I looked upon was wit-
nessed by the Apostle Paul. Our little company, nearly if not
all of them Christians, gathered around on the rocky brow of
Mars’ Hill and listened to the reading of Paul’s sermon by
Brother Pepper. It, with many other things, had a new mean-
ing to me. Just above them was the most magniﬁcent temple in

 

