66 MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT.

For more than an hour we were conducted from street to street,
and from house to house, by our guide. One thing impressed
me. It was the distinctness of colors and shapes of the frescoing
on the walls of the houses. We went into one house that was
evidently the home of a rich man. The ﬂoors were laid in mosaic
of the most beautiful and delicate pattern, while the frescoing on
the walls was beautiful. The objects pictured on the walls of the
dining-room were unique and appetizing. They consisted of
little winged ﬁgures like cupids,—some baking, some brewing,
some gathering grapes and pressing wine,— all actively engaged
at something. These ﬁgures were in colors on a black back-
ground, that brought them out very distinctly.

The bath-rooms were very luxurious. They evidently were .
prepared to give either warm or cold baths. There was a public
bath-house, with the tub about twelve feet in diameter and nearly
three deep, let into the ﬂoor. There were four niches in the
walls, evidently for dressing-rooms.

The bath-room for ladies adjoined, but there was no com-
munication between them. Each had a set of furnaces.

The amphitheater is very similar in shape and arrangements
to those seen in Rome, Athens, and elsewhere. The arena is cir-
cular, while the seats rise in circular form round about it. It
has been estimated that this one would Comfortably seat twelve
thousand eight hundred spectators. It is in a ﬁne state of preser-
vation. _

The signs of the different craftsmen were worked into the outer
walls of the houses. For instance, a square of mosaic, a foot or
eighteen inches square, indicated that this work was done within.
A hardware merchant had knives, reap-hooks, scissors, etc., on
his sign.

A triangular forum or temple is indicated by rows of broken
columns, platforms, and other objects. ,

The citizens of Pompeii were evidently fond of sports. Besides
the amphitheater spoken of, they had a tragic theater, containing
twenty-eight tiers of seats, that would hold ﬁve thousand specta-
tors; also, a comic theatre, that would seat ﬁfteen hundred people,
and a place surrounded by a colonnade, used for gladiatorial
contests.

So these rocks, wrought into theaters and places of amusement,

 

