150 MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT.

all that we saw. You know that for many years it was called
the Mount of Transﬁguration. I am satisﬁed that its main claim
to this pre—eminence is its height, and beauty of form and pro-
portions. Its Scriptural claims cannot measure up to those of
Hermon, in my estimation. '

SHUNEM.

After our lunch at Shunem, Brother Magness and I took a
stroll through the village. We both have found this to be the
best way to get at the habits and customs of the people. We see
them in their home. When they come out to see us, it is differ-
ent from our going to see them. We climbed up upon the house-
tops and watched the women replastering their roofs. Baskets
of earth were carried up and poured in a pile, ﬁnely powdered
straw was then mixed with it, and lastly, jars of water were
poured over the mass, and the women getting down on their
knees, with their bare bands they would knead the mass like
dough. They would then daub and spread it wherever needed.
While standing watching the Operation, I saw bees going in and
out at one corner of the house, and found that a hive had been
made of the same material as that covering the roof. How they
got at the honey, I know not, nor did I desire to have an ocular
demonstration. We saw the women baking bread in their dirt
ovens. They would stuff the oven full of dry weeds and grass,
and when it was hot, they put in the dough, and left it to bake.
I was forcibly reminded of the Saviour’s expression of the grass,
“which to—day is, and to-morrow is cast into the oven.” We can
never appreciate the scarcity of fuel in this country, and what
repulsive things are treasured up and burned here. How the
pe0ple keep warm in the winter-time, when it is cold and rainy,
is a mystery to me.

JEZREEL.

We passed the town of J ezreel, where was a well on the out-
skirts of the place, and a bevy of women and girls drawing water.
A double or cross arch of stone had been built over the mouth of
the well. Upon this arch sat one or two, while the rest stood
round about. Each one had a jar and a cord, and something to
draw with, in the shape of a small leather bag, preSsed open with

