MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT. 17

FARTHER EAST.

As we swept down the Yellowstone River, I saw a turtle sunning
himself upon a rock. It has been many a long day since I saw
one, but I knew him as soon as I laid eyes on him. It is
hard to forget our boyhood friends.

I realize that I am in the land of cyclones, for I see the cyclone-
holes, or dugouts, as I pass. When they see a storm arising,
like the squirrels they go for their holes. Who can blame them?

When we reached Missoula, Montana, I stepped out on the
platform. I saw a clerical-looking gentleman whose face looked
familiar, but when I Spoke to him I saw my mistake. He asked
my name. I told him “ Simmons.” “ What! is this J. C. Simmons
of the South Church, in California?” I told him I was. He said ‘
he never saw me before, but had seen my picture in the California
Advocate, and had heard of me for years, and wanted to see me.
He said his name was Rawlins. Their Conference was then in
session in that place, Bishop Fowler presiding. He said the
Bishop preached one of his grandest sermons that morning. He
spoke of Bishop Duncan, and of our Conference that was soon to
convene.

Our train ran for hours on the borders of a lake called Pend
d’Oreille. It is a French name, and means “lobe of the ear.”
We ran up Clark’s Fork till late in the day. This indicated that
we were still on the west side of the Rocky Mountains, as the
streams ﬂow toward the Paciﬁc. As we climb the Rockies, the
ﬂora changes. Little pines predominate. But it is wonderful
how many of these pines have been killed by forest ﬁres. Mil-
lions of them stand on the mountain sides, dead, and I could see
no new shoots coming up to take their places.

When speaking of Shasta I did intend to tell of the sad destruc-
tion of all the timber round about the mountain, -—mills, mills,
everywhere, ripping and sawing into lumber every tree large
enough. The stumps stand like gravestones in this cemetery of
slain forests. Have the trees no friends? Will no hand arrest
the ringing, swinging ax in its ruthless work? When too late,
California will wake to her folly.

- I met a gentleman between St. Paul and Chicago, who told me
that they had stripped the forests of Minnesota and Wisconsin,

 

