MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT. 35

mids with astronomic accuracy, and possessed a literature at that
time unparalleled in the world’s history, could be guilty of the folly
of reckoning these things as their gods. But this and all other
similar questions are only solved in the history of man’s fall, as
only recorded in the Book of books.

These old bulls had long since ceased to bellow, these tom.cats
to complacently lick their paws in the presence of their worship-
ers, and their dried carcasses are laid upon the shelf, as so many
monuments of man’s folly and God’s wisdom.

I saw the writing material of the Egyptians, consisting of tab-
lets, the prepared papyrus, pens of reeds, and inkstands. The
tablets were of wood, and had receptacles for pens of reeds, long
but small, not larger round than the tine of a table-fork. The
inkstands were blocks of stone with a number of small cavities
in which varied colored inks were placed for the convenience of
the writer. The papyruslooked a good deal like veneering or
thin-shaved wood.

When the Egyptians laid away the bodies of their dead, they
wrote their name and deeds on papyrus, rolled it tightly together
and sealed it with two seals, and 'laid it in with the dead. I saw
a number of these rolls.

There is also a large display of sandals for the feet; some of
straw, some of a material resembling papyrus, and some of leather.
The straw and the papyrus are in a good state of preservation,
but the tooth of time has dealt hardly with the leather.

A large number of unburned brick from Egypt is here. They
are very much like our adobes in California. They were of dif-
ferent sizes; in some I could discover the straw incorporated in
them. These were the kind of brick made by the children of
Israel while in Egypt. And who knows but that some of these
here in the British Museum were made by them?

I saw a number of clay tablets, with their envelopes of the
same material, written in Babylon two thousand and two thou-
sand three hundred years before Christ, containing deeds and
other documents. I was much impressed with a number of
boundary-stones, erected to mark the boundary of land eleven
hundred years before Christ. The inscriptions upon them were as
plain as on the day they were set up. These stones were of basalt
rock, about a foot square and three feet in height. I was re-

