MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT. 169

small boat. The rough sea tossed our boat about in the most
exciting and lively manner. When we reached the ship, the
question was, how we were, to get aboard, for neither ship nor
boat was still for a moment. Sometimes we were away below the
ship’s ladder, and the next moment we would go shooting up
above it. But our experienced boatmen were equal to the emer-
gency. Two of them would lay hold of one of the party and wait
till a wave lifted our boat up near the ladder, when they would
pitch the one on hand up on the ladder, where two others would
steady them and lead them up the side into the ship. When it
came Brother and Sister Pepper’s turn,—each of them weighing
over two hundred,—the men had to put forth all their powers,
but they landed them safely. When I was tossed up, my Jewish
friend, who was just behind me, said I landed all right, for I
landed on my knees. Anyway, I got up all right.

Mrs. Bates of Kansas City was the only one of our party who
proved herself a true sailor. All the rest of us paid tribute to
Neptune, and retired for the rest of the trip. We reached Port
Said early the next morning, and took the train. for Cairo.

It is wonderful what the English are doing for this old land.
The Mohammedans, with their fanaticism, superstitions, and
Opposition to change and progress, still nominally hold the coun-
try, but England has quietly but ﬁrmly taken hold of the helm,
and while others may do the rowing, she guides the affairs of the
ship of state. The Khedive has his palace, his retinue of ser-
vants, and his soldiers; but his authority is only tinsel.

CAIRO.

When we reached Cairo we found the city all a-ﬂutter with
ﬂags and streamers, and a holiday look about the whole city.
We found that the Khedive, or governor, was just on his return
from a visit to Europe. We caught sight of him once or twice
as he drove about the city. He was surrounded by a retinue of
soldiers, and before him, on foot, ran two heralds, dressed in the
most gaudy uniform, with staffs in their hands, shouting to clear
the way before him. The horses in the Khedive’s carriage were
in a lively trot, and yet these heralds kept ahead of them. The
crowds in the streets parted before these heralds, like waves before
the prow of a ship.

