100 MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT.

parallel with the ground, moving in a brisk walk with a good-
sized sofa, two upholstered and two common chairs piled up on
his back; another with a thirty—six-gallon barrel full of some
sort of liquor on his; another with a large basket with about
twenty good—sized watermelons on his, and another small basket,
with three in it, carried swung before him; another with a large
wardrobe; another with a spring bed, etc. They have a sort of
leather cushion, something like a soldier’s knapsack, resting on
the small of the back, and on this they pile the load. These
burden-bearers thread their way through the crowded narrow
streets with a celerity that is marvelous. In Rome, Naples, and
Athens the ass is loaded down with baskets of grapes and other
fruits, but here the men are the beasts of burden. They go through
the streets crying their wares all day long.

DOGS.

Constantinople is noted for its dogs, not for the nobility of the
breed, not for the color or sagacity, but for sheer numbers. In
a short drive of ﬁfteen or twenty minutes to the hotel, I counted
184. One evening our party was invited to the house of a banker
to spend the evening. On our return, in a ten-minutes’ walk,
a gentleman and I counted 190. There are said to be from
150,000 to 180,000 in the city. They lie curled up on the side-
walks, in the streets,—anywhere they can ﬁnd a place. N 0 one
disturbs them. Everybody walks round them, even if he has to
leave the sidewalk to do it. I am told they are regarded as sacred,
and it is thought that in the transmigration of souls these ours
are the receptacles of many of them. If a cabman should run
over one, he is arrested, and must pay a ﬁne of $1.25.

As a general thing, they are very quiet, but some nights they
make the welkin ring. Every dog has his range or beat. Should
he dare go out of it into another, every dog in reachrushes upon
him, and he has to ﬁght for his life. If he survives the ﬁght,
which is not always the case, he is let alone, and may dwell in
peace among his new friends.

I asked our guide how these dogs lived. He said everybody
feeds them. The hotels, instead of carting off their scraps and
garbage, have it emptied in the streets, and it requires but a few

 

 

