MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT. 19

ON THE SEA. '

I have but little to say of New York, for I was there but a little
over a day, and much of the time was taken up with business. I
called at the Christian Advocate ofﬁce. Dr. Buckley, to my re-
gret, was not in, but his assistant, Brother Herben, met me with
a cordiality that was most gratifying. He said he knew me by
reputation, and was anxious to meet me. He furnished me with
all the late Southern papers, and I had a feast looking through
them.

In the afternoon I went to Central Park, and came back on an
automobile. It was run by electricity, and I had a most delight-
ful ride. There is a great number of automobiles in the city. I
counted thirteen in the space of a few blocks. Some were very
ﬁne; others struck me as clumsy. I visited General Grant’s tomb.
It is a much plainer structure than I expected to see. It is, how-
. ever, massive and beautiful. It is built square, with huge columns
on all its sides; the whole is surmounted with a dome. The
whole structure is 150 feet high, and perhaps 100 feet square. It
is made of white granite, and is entered on one side. In the cen-
ter is a circular Opening, perhaps twelve or ﬁfteen feet in diameter,
and on the ﬂoor beneath rest two sarcophagi,—one containing
the remains of General Grant, the other those of his wife. The
location is a most picturesque one. It is on a hill overlooking
the Hudson River.

In the evening I was greatly pleased at meeting a nephew from
Tuscaloosa, Alabama.

On Saturday morning, at nine o’clock, I went on board the
steamer Menominee, which was to be my home for ten or twelve
days. It is an immense ship of ten thousand tons, and is, by long
odds, the steadiest ship I was ever on. The captain said it was
the steadiest ship on the Atlantic. It is true, we have had a re-
markably calm time, but there has not been a single case of sea-
sickness among the 83 passengers, and this is the third day. We
had hardly cast oﬁ our lines, before a gentleman came up to me
and said, “Did I not hear you give a speech of welcome to the
Epworth League Convention in San Francisco?” He said he was
on the platform, and thought I was the man. It was the Rev.
C. M. Gifﬁn, D. D., of Scranton, Pennsylvania, a delegate to the

 

