94 MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT.

olive and the vine over scenes of wealth and glory, and knew it
not. The waves of the sea still lapped the shore, and the winds
blew as of yore, but no vessels came and went, laden with the
commerce of the East. Corinth was dead and buried, and the
only visible monument to mark its grave were the fragments of
seven broken pillars of the Temple of Apollo.

Pausanias in his old book said, so many paces east of the Temple
of Apollo is the broad roadway that leads from the sea to the Pro-
pylaea. Here Dr. Richardson sunk his ﬁrst shaft in his search for
Corinth. His faith and perseverance were rewarded by striking, in
due time, the marble pavement of this way. For months he toiled
on until a large section of the street was uncovered. It was in a
perfect state of preservation. The street itself is twenty-four feet
wide, with sidewalks raised some eight or ten inches, of between
eight and nine feet, making the whole over forty feet in width.

Pausanias spoke of a fountain so many paces to the east of this
way. Dr. Richardson found this, too, with two perfectly pre-
served bronzed lions’ heads as outlets for the water. He cleaned
out the fountains, and after some search found the original stream
of water, which he had conveyed to the little village below; and
from this fountain we drank. The water was pure and good.

The site of the Temple of Apollo was then exhumed. The
building originally had forty-two columns, and from its com-
manding location must have been very beautiful. Near it he un-
earthed the Fountain of Glauce. This fountain is of great size,
and has four departments, all hewn in the solid rock of the moun-
tain side. The water, in entering each chamber, was shot from
the mouth of a bronze lion’s head. The stream that fed these
fountains has not yet been discovered. An interesting legend
connected with this fountain was related to us by our intelligent
and well-read guide.

Jason, who stole the golden ﬂeece from Colchis in Asia Minor,
was assisted by Medea. (While on the Bosphorus, a week later,
we had the place where Jason and Medea crossed that strait into
Europe pointed out to us.) They went to Thessaly. There they
had two children born to them. After this, Jason took the
two children and went to Corinth, where he fell in love with
Glauce, King Crayon’s daughter. But Medea followed him, and'
begged of the king to see him. At ﬁrst refused, she asked the

