MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT. 89

Daphne (Apollo’s), also those of Ceres and Venus. Near these
ruins a part of the road is shown, which is in a ﬁne state of pres-
ervation. Near the Temple of Daphne is the Grove of the
Nymphs, composed wholly of pines.

The ruins of the Temple of Mysteries cover several acres of
ground. A part of the wall, built in the eleventh century before
Christ, is still in existence.

There is also a circular well near the Temple of Pluto,—part
of the Temple of Mysteries. It was down this well that Proser-
pine is said to have descended to the. regions of Pluto. At this
temple those who were entitled to them were initiated into the
Mysteries.

Near the site of this temple, Eschylus, one of the earliest of
the Greek tragedians, was born. He it was who wrote “Prome-
theus Bound”, ' .

One of the ﬁnest pictures in Athens, I saw in King George’s
Palace, representing Prometheus bound upon the rocks. One
can almost see him writhing upon his ﬂinty bed.

While near this temple we witnessed a primitive scene. Two
men and two boys, in bare feet, with their pants rolled up to their
knees, “ treading the wine-press.” The press consisted of a room
eight feet square, in the rock. The ﬂoor inclined to one side, in
which was an opening for the escape of the juice. Several bushels
of grapes were thrown into this press, and they were in, tramping
out the wine. It is said that no instrument has ever been in-
vented superior to the human foot for expressing the juice of the
grape. As we approached it, the men and boys tramped and
pranced all over the mass, the juice squirting from under their
feet, and coming up from between their toes with a slushy noise
that was very suggestive of a delightful drink. . One of the boys
ran and got a glass, and when the luscious stream was running
through a basket to strain it of its impurities, he ﬁlled it and
handed it to me. But I was n’t thirsty. And being a strong
temperance man, I handed it to the young ladies. They also re-
fused. Strange how particular some people are. One of the
boys, after being out a while, jumped in again without the for-
mality of even wiping his feet. But I suppose he thought that
was n’t necessary, as the skins and juice would soon cleanse them
after he got in.

