My TRIP TO THE ORIENT. 99

both sides of what is known as the Golden Horn, which is a spur
of the Bosphorus, running nearly at right angles from the strait.
The mountains, or, rather, high hills, rise on each side the Golden
Horn, and the city is built on these slopes. It would be hard to
ﬁnd a more beautiful and picturesque location for a great city.
One side is called Constantinople-Pera, and the other Constanti-
nople-Stamboul. Nearly, if not all, the foreigners, the ambassa-
dors, consuls, and legations live in Pera. But the city is not
conﬁned to the two sides of the Golden Horn, but far up the
Bosphorus, to the Black Sea, a distance of eight or more miles,
the shore is lined with houses, that reach back to the very sum-
mit of the hills. This is called Galata. While across the strait,
on the Asia Minor side, is Scutari, lining all the shore, and reach-
ing far back into the country.

The Bosphorus, which is the strait that connects the Sea of
Marmora with the Black Sea, is a most beautiful sheet of water,
a mile or two wide, not running in a straight line, but meandering
in the most picturesque and beautiful manner. Upon its waters
lie all sorts of craft, from the battle-ships with their frowning
guns, the great sea-going iron steamers with their crowds of pas-
sengers, the pleasure-yachts with their trim and graceful propor-
tions, to the hundreds of sloops, brigs, yawls, and all the lesser
craft. There is never a moment when some of these vessels are
not gliding across its silvery surface, presenting a picture of life
and animation most charming.

Two immense iron bridges span the Golden Horn, that are
crowded from early morn till late at night. A footman is charged
one cent, in our money, for crossing this bridge, and I never was
on it, that there were not from ﬁve hundred to a thousand rush-
ing, jostling, and pushing one way or the other. I was told that
the revenue from one of these bridges was one thousand dollars
per day.

All the Turks wear a small vizorless red cap or fez. Standing
at one end of the bridge, you see one restless, tossing sea of red
caps in view.

Here and there in the moving mass is a wagon, a carriage, or
a loaded donkey. But more numerous than all, there are men
with burdens on their back that would load a horse. I never saw
men hear such burdens. I saw one man with his body bent

