138 MY TRIP To THE ORIENT.

body was particularly interested in. The age of building churches
over spots now made sacred and worshiped had n’t come, and
many generations passed, and the knowledge of the particular
locality passed with them.

The house of Naaman the Syrian, outside the walls, was pointed
out. It is now in ruins, and withal looks quite modern.

After leaving Damascus we pitched our tents at the base of
Mount Hermon. This historic mountain, so celebrated in Scrip-
ture history, stands out most prominently in the great range
that gloriﬁes the south of Syria and the north of Palestine. Its
sides are bare. I could not see a tree or shrub from base to sum-
mit, and while in the rainy season it may be clothed with grass,
not a vestige of it appears now. Brown and bare, it lifts its
massive sides up against the blue sky in silence and majesty.
During the ages the storms and rains that have beat upon its
brow and sides have stripped away much of the earth, and left
great ledges of gray rock belting its sides.

In our journey we came upon a lot of native men and women
at a wine-press, working with their crop of grapes. They had a
press, and had digged a “wine-vat” in the solid rock. Throwing
the grapes, stems and all, into a large receptacle, men and boys
with bare feet tramped them to pieces. They were then heaped
up, and a long heavy pole was used as a prize to express the juice
from the grapes. This ran down into the “wine-vat.” A man
went down a ladder set in this wine-vat, and dipped up the juice
and handed it to another man at the top, who poured it into a
large caldron, where it was boiled to a syrup. Quite a number
of others were engaged in boiling the juice in smaller pots. The
whole process struck me as anything but clean. In the ﬁrst place,
the mass as it came out of the wine-vat looked like very dirty
dish-water. Some of it was strained through coarse sacks or bags
that looked anything but inviting.

PLOWING AND THRASHING.

We, in our journey through Palestine, have often asked each
other how these people make a living. It is true, we see them
here and there with their little wooden plows scratching the sur-
face of the ground, but the great body of them are huddled to-

