20 MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT.

Ecumenical Conference. I was truly glad to have company. I
soon found another delegate from Minnesota, and a lay delegate
from Pennsylvania. This made it very pleasant for me.

The large body of our passengers are English, but, take them
:all in all, they are as pleasant a lot of passengers as one will see
.anywhere. Sunday morning we had Episcopal service, conducted
by the captain. He came to me in the afternoon and apologized
for not calling upon me. He said they were required to conduct
the Episcopal service every Sabbath morning, but that if either
-of the ministers desired to preach in the evening, he would be
very glad to have him do so. But none of us had on “our sea-
legs,” and we were almost afraid to undertake it. It rained all
'Sunday afternoon. In the evening the young people assembled
in the parlor and spent several hours in singing. We found that
we had several ﬁne performers on the piano, and some excellent
singers. .

Monday dawned bright and beautiful. We found, by consult-
ing the “log,” that we were running over three hundred miles a
day. '

The young people have several games on board,—one called
“shuﬁleboard,” where little round boards six inches in diameter
are shot across the deck by punching them with cues. They en-
joy it, and I enjoy looking at them.

I am very fortunate in my location at the table. Dr. Gifﬁn,
Brother Shepherd, the lay delegate, a Scotch ex-member of Parlia-
ment, and another very intelligent, well-traveled Scotchman, and
I sit next the captain of the ship.

We discuss matters while eating, and hardly ever leave the
table for from a half an hour to an hour after we are through eat-
ing. We talk navigation, science, politics, religion, etc., often in-
terspersing our talks with jokes and anecdotes. My California
experiences always secure me a respectful and interested hear-
ing.

INCIDENTS OF THE VOYAGE.

The monotony of ocean travel can be appreciated only by one

shut up in a ship with not a speck of land, or bird, or ﬁsh, or ship

visible for days. I was disappointed in the fact that we saw so
few ships, and as to animal life, we saw a few porpoises, a few

 

