112 MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT.

HOWLING DERVISHES.

While speaking of the howling dervishes, let me tell you, if
possible, of their performance as witnessed by us; for the scene
is beyond my powers of description. The whole thing must be
seen to be understood or appreciated.

We took a boat and went across the Bosphorus to a town in
Asia Minor called Scutari. We ﬁrst went through the English
Crimean cemetery, where over six thousand brave English
soldiers, who fell in the Crimean War, are buried. Not far from
this resting-place of the English dead, is a. Turkish cemetery,
that has been in use for ages. Tall cypress trees stand thick all

through it. I was told that more than ﬁve millions of dead.

bodies lie in this cemetery; and as I looked at the forest of grave-
stones that bristle like hoar frost over the hundreds of acres, and
know that they lie buried one above another, three and four deep,
I could well believe it. On the edge of this cemetery of the cen—
turies are the lepers’ quarters. We looked in as we passed, and
saw men, women, and children crowded in these quarters, ex-
cluded from all association with the outside world, as if buried
before they were dead, right on the borders of the charnel-house,
where dissolution will complete the work commenced in their
rotting bodies, before death has loosed all the bands of life. Our
guide placed some coin on the top of a post. and called to them.
A man came out as we drove off, and, raising a hand, from which
the ﬁngers had dr0pped, saluted him with thanks. In a few
minutes’ drive we reached the howling dervishes’ quarters. It
was a good—sized room, with a railing round two sides, some six
feet from the wall. This space was for the Spectators. On the
side toward Mecca was something like an altar, with rugs spread
before it. The other side was for the entrance of the dervishes.
The ﬂoor was bare, but near the middle several sheepskins were
spread, in two rows. Upon these kneeled six men, three on a
side, facing each other, with the space of but a few feet between
them. Eight men with white skull-caps on their heads stood in
a row at the far side of the room, facing the altar. A large, very
black negro, at least six feet four inches tall, with a loose black
robe, and heavy turban on his head, stood near, facing them.
Soon the six kneeling men began a low wailing chant, perfectly

