MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT. 139

gether in the villages, or are met on the highways, going, going.
But the grape and the olive are great staples of food. '

How they reap their grain, we know not, for the season was
over, but we frequently saw their process of thrashing. It was
of the most primitive character. Oxen are driven round over the
grain, spread out on cleared spots, or thrashing-ﬂoors, sometimes
drawing a sort of drag after them. They carry on this process
‘ until the very straw is ground up. Then they throw the grain
up in the air, and the chaff and straw is blown by the wind to
one side, and the wheat is left in a yellow pile. The process is
carried still further with sieves, that are ﬁlled and skillfully
manipulated, until every particle of dirt and chaff is removed.
The grain is then piled up in the center of the thrashing-ﬂoor,
great piles of weeds are placed round the heaps, and men lie by
and guard their treasure night and day. As the night grows
cold, they make a ﬁre of the weeds, and hover over the ﬂame and
embers. Not a particle of the chaff or straw is wasted, but all is
gathered up to be fed to horses, donkeys, and camels. When
these animals have eaten all that suits their taste, the balance is
carefully gathered up and mixed with mortar with which to cover
their roofs.

Everything that cannot be used in any other way, and that
can be burned, is turned into fuel. And necessity has taught
them economy in the use of fuel, that is almost marvelous.
Mountain and plain have been robbed of trees and shrubs, and
the people have been driven to the use of things for fuel, that
would be repulsive to us.

I saw one of our muleteers gathering some three or four little
pieces of corn-stalks, not as big as my little ﬁnger. He arranged
some rocks, and placing his little tin cup of coffee over it, by
judicious management. he boiled it. I could understand the ex-
pression of the widow who told Elijah that she was gathering
two sticks, that she might bake bread for her son and herself,
and die.

CESAREA PHILIPPI.

As we entered the town of Cmsarea Philippi I saw what threw
light upon another expression in the Scriptures. The costumes
of the people have undergone no change for centuries. The pants

