MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT. 93

holstered in red. The throne was but a large chair, set under a
rich canopy at one side of the room. Some of the paintings about
the palace were very ﬁne.

CORINTH.

Corinth was not on our programme, but Brother Pepper and I
planned a trip to this, to us intensely interesting, city. It is per-
haps ﬁfty or more miles from Athens, and is reached by rail. A
new Corinth has sprung up at the railroad station, which is about
an hour’s drive from the site of the old city.

In crossing the Isthmus of Corinth we passed over the ship-
canal that was cut some ﬁfteen years ago. Nero planned to make
this improvement, and actually began the work. His excavations
were found by the engineers who surveyed this one. It is a very
ﬁne piece of work. We took a carriage at the station and drove
over to the site of the old city. A little straggling village of tile-
covered mud huts stood upon the débr’is that lay on the lower
part of this once famous city. As we stood and looked at the
smooth surface of the hills that sloped to the sea, it was impos-
sible to conceive that beneath this twenty or thirty feet of earth
lay the ruins of this “Eye of Commerce,” as one of the ancient
historians called it. But the bare rocks of the great mountain
that stood above it spoke eloquently of. how they were disrobed
of all their soil, that now covered like a thick mantle home, and
street, and palace, that lay pulseless beneath it. A few years ago,
Dr. Richardson, an American, began explorations on the site of
Corinth. He had read carefully a book written by Pausanias be-
fore the time of Christ. This book described most accurately all
points of interest in the city. He described the Temple of Apollo,
and the relation of other places and buildings to it. When the
earth from the mountains came sweeping down, it covered all the
city, but left seven columns of this temple standing part of the way
above the surface. Centuries, in their slow march, went by, and
clothed the soil that lay above the dead city with verdure. Shep-
herds drove their ﬂocks, and pitched their tents above it. They
even drilled holes in the classic marble pillars of the Temple of
Apollo, in which to place their tent-poles while watching their
ﬂock. The simple husbandman built his but and planted the

