70 MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT.

than one hundred miles. There is no rush or hurry here, either
by rail or any other way. Our road passed over and under the
Apennines. We were scarcely out of one tunnel until we were in
another. They kept lights burning in the car all the while. We
were in one tunnel three quarters of an hour. Brindisi is a very
old town, and is the terminus of the celebrated Appian Way, that
starts at Rome, made memorable by its connection with the his—
tory of the Apostle Paul. We had only a few hours in Brindisi,
but we went in search of Virgil’s Column, erected here in mem-
ory of this greatest of the Latin poets. We saw the building in
which he died, and the modest but beautiful shaft near-by, that
an appreciative people have erected to his memory. His body
lies at Naples.

.PATRAS.

The day after leaving Brindisi, we landed at Patras. We were
now in classic Greece, and could look in no direction without see-
ing something historic, something that would call up names and
places made familiar in our school days.

Right across the bay was the battle-ﬁeld of Missolonghi, on
which Marcos Bozzaris was killed. There Lord Byron fought.
There he was taken sick and died. His heart was taken out and
buried on the battle-ﬁeld, where he fought, but his body was
taken to England and buried near Newstead Abbey, as they re-
fused it a place in Westminster Abbey.

We- landed at Patras, where we spent several hours. I was
astonished at the great trade in what they call currants, but they
are small seedless grapes; for I examined them, and was after-
wards permitted to see them as they were spread out to dry, at
Corinth, where the great body of them is grown. They pack
them in boxes, in barrels, and in bags. I passed by scores of
houses where men, women, and children were cleaning, picking,
and sorting them. I went into some of these houses and was
shown every courtesy, and everything explained to me that could
be made by signs; for I could not speak Greek, and they could
not speak English. I went down to the wharf and saw great
numbers of ships loading with them. We reached Greece just in
the height of the grape and wine season. It is the ﬁrst place I
ever saw where the grapes are equal to our California grapes.

 

