182. MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT.

very destruction “of the great goddess Diana,” “whom all Asia
and the world worshipeth,” the town clerk, in appeasing the
pe0ple, said, “Ye men of Ephesus, what man is there that
knoweth not how that the city of the Ephesians is a worshiper of
the great goddess Diana, and of the image which fell down from
Jupiter?” Recently this identical image has been dug up from
the ruins of the temple of Diana at Ephesus, and it is here in the
Museum at Naples. This image I saw. It is made of white
marble, and is as perfect as the day it was chiseled. Even the
lions on her arms are unbroken. The face of the image is as
beautiful as a woman’s, the mural crown upon the head setting
off the features.

There were very many other things in this Museum worthy of
note; but we cannot mention them now.

November 21, 1901, we took ship for New York. Besides the
ﬁrst-class passengers, we had ﬁve hundred Italian emigrants in
the steerage, and the captain told me there is an average of a
ship-load every day going to New York.

The second day out, a two-year-old babe died, and the next
night, at four, A. M., the great ship stopped in mid-ocean, and the
little body was committed to the deep.

HOME.

In fOur months and one day from the day I left San Francisco,
God, in his good providence, brought me back again, having pre-
served me amid the 20,776 miles of travel by land and by sea.
For all of which I am devoutly thankful.

Of all the lands I have seen, there are none to compare with
America, and in America, none to compare with California.

The day before we reached New York, one of our fellow-pas-
sengers took from his pocket an envelope and wrote on it the
following: —

“ I ’ve traveled about the whole world everywhere;
From the isles of the south to the north polar hear;
I ’ve camped with the Arabs;
I ’ve dwelt with the Boers;
I ’ve slept in the tents of Morocco-bound Moors;
I ’ve lived with the Dago, the Greek, and the Turk,
Too dirty to live, and too lazy to work;

