MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT. 141

Merom. The country immediately surrounding the lake is too
marshy to allow of a near approach, so we had to content ourselves
with looking at it from a distance.

The moon was about its full, and our muleteers amused us by
playing bear. One of them dressed in a goatskin robe, and danced,
and cut up all sorts of capers, led by another, who was about as
funny as the bear. They were like children at play.

The next day we met ﬁve missionaries. We were glad to meet
with English-speaking people, and we sat for some time on our
horses and exchanged courtesies.

Just before reaching an old Roman bridge, that was built before
the time of Christ, we saw an immense herd of buffaloes. There
were perhaps ﬁve hundred in the herd. The people here use them
as cows, both as work-animals and for milking purposes.

At lunch, to-day, we saw, for the ﬁrst time, the papyrus grow-
ing. It was near a Bedouin camp, and some of the children
brought us some of the stalks from the low, swampy ground on
which they grew.

To-day we passed one of the new Jewish colonies, recently es-
tablished by Baron Rothschild. He has bought up large tracts
of land in Palestine, and is establishing Jewish colonies. The
houses occupied by these people are in marked contrast to the
squalid mud and stone houses occupied by the natives. Trees
have been planted, roads have been built, and everything looks
clean and nice. We talked with some of the Jews. They told us
under Turkish rule they have a hard time. The tax-gatherers
exact ten per cent, and then take as much more as they please
when they come to collect. They have no assurance of safety for
anything they possess.

We are now in the land of Israel, the inheritance of God’s
people, but it is theirs no more. They rejected their own Messiah,
and for nearly two thousand years they have never had a home
nor a nationality. Strangers in strange lands, they live only by
the kindness of other peoples. They, as a people, have been pre-
served as distinct and separate from other people as if they had
been set 'alone in the earth, and yet they have no home. Stran-
gers with a strange tongue, and with a strange religion, roam
over the home of their fathers, and should they venture to enter
their land even by purchase, they have no assurance of either life

