34 MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT.

The mummy-hall is a place of much interest. The Scriptures
speak of the Egyptians embalming the dead, and here is a con-
ﬁrmation of that fact. I walked among the bodies of men and
women who had been dead for thousands of years, some still se-
curely wrapped in cloths woven before Moses was born.

These old Egyptians had selected the material above all other
that would last; for these cerements of the grave having been
steeped in some resinous substance would make them lasting.
But what of it all? Little did these kings, queens, and princes
think, before they died, that, after ages, their bodies would be
dragged from their resting-places, transported over land and sea,
to be exposed and gazed upon by crowds of the curious from
every nation under heaven. _

Some of the bodies had been unwrapped and the dried ﬂesh
exposed; others, again, had been stripped even of the ﬂesh, and
the white bones laid bare. I examined the teeth of a number;
some had missing molars, some teeth were decayed, some were
regular and even, while others were what we call “ snaggle—teeth.”
In one instance the front teeth were ﬁlled with little round plugs
of gold, not to ﬁll cavities, as with us, but cavities were evidently
made and ﬁlled for ornamental purposes, so that when a fellow
grinned, he would show his gold.

_ But there were not only mummies of men and women, but
these old Egyptians embalmed their sacred bulls, cats, and croco-
diles. I saw several of these animals, before whom these people,
enlightened in the arts and sciences, bowed down and worshiped.
What a conﬁrmation of the Scriptures. “Men became vain in their
imaginations, and their foolish heart was darkened. Professing
themselves to be wise, they became fools, and changed the glory
of the uncorruptible God into an image made like to corruptible
man, and to birds, and four-footed beasts, and creeping things.”

The man that turns away from God’s Word is sure to fall into
gross error, whether that error be the worship of birds, beasts,
creeping things, or spiritism, Christian science,——falsely so called,
—— theosophy, or the scores of other things condemned in the
wisest Book the world has ever seen or ever will see.

As I looked at this dried beef, these swathed tom-cats, and this
' hideous crocodile, I wondered how it was possible that a people
who chiseled the solid mountain into a Sphinx, reared the Pyra-

 

 

 

