160 MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT.

every day, and, with their faces to these unsympathizing stones,
are wailing out their sorrows, and waiting for the coming of their
Messiah. I saw nothing in Jerusalem that touched me so deeply
as the scene at this wall. I heard their murmur all along the
line as they stood with their backs to the light, and their faces to
the hard, senseless stones. “The vail was upon their hearts.”
The Master was near, saying, “Behold, I stand at the door and
knock. If any man hear my voice, and Open the door, I will
come in to him, and will sup with him, and he with me.” They
had rejected Him who said, “ Behold, I lay in Sion a chief corner-
stone, elect, precious: and he that believeth on him shall not be
confounded.” Instead of looking to this precious stone, they were
crying to the senseless, unsympathizing stones laid up by human
hands in this wall,-——stones that have made no reply, though
wailed to for ages. .

During. the Sabbath of our stay in Jerusalem, I preached to
our little company in the parlor of the hotel. I took for my theme
the fact that Jesus, the Son of David according to the ﬂesh, was
declared to be the Son of God by his resurrection from the dead.
A very intelligent Jew, who 'had been with our party for some
days, sought an opportunity to compliment me on the‘sermon,
and among other things, he said, “The Jews did not crucify
Christ because they hated him. But theynailed him to the cross
and said to him, if he would come down from the cross, they
would believe on him. And I tell you, if he had come down from
the cross, there is not a Jew in the whole world that would not
have believed on him.” I said, “Sir, you have not listened to
your own Scriptures. They tell you that he should be put to
death, and rise again from the dead. And this was a mightier
display of divine power, than if he had come down from the cross.
You have asked for your sign, and have not accepted a mightier
sign given you.”

It is said that these Jews at their wailing-place use the Lamen-
tations of Jeremiah as their texts. Among those there the day I
saw them, my guide told me were some of the richest Jews in
Jerusalem. I could not but mark the earnestness and the serious—
ness that characterized old and young. . When I knew of the op-
pression to which they are subjected in this the land of their
fathers, I could not wonder so much that they never wearied in

