MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT. 115

rhythmical in its movement, to which the eight men responded
by swaying their bodies, ﬁrst from side to side, and then back
and forth, humming in unison to the chant of the six. At times
they bent their bodies until their foreheads almost touched the
ﬂoor. Then they would fairly swing their heads, ﬁrst over the
right, then over the left shoulder. This exercise became more
and more violent, and the howl waxed louder and louder. Soon
the big negro laid aside his black robe and his big turban, reveal-
ing a light-colored striped robe as long as the black one, and a
white cap like the rest. He took a position as the center of the
row. It took but a few moments for him to work himself into a
fever of excitement, and, negro-like, he entered the lists for all
that was in it. His long, lithe body seemed as if made of india-
rubber. He could throw his face to within a few degrees of where
the back of his head ought to be, and bring it back with a swing
that would turn it as far over the other shoulder. You could hear
his howl above the combined notes of all the others. At times the
howl would give place to a sort of explosive grunt as the head
swung over the shoulder. There were a number seated on mats
and sheepskins round the room, and they would often sway from
side to side and join in the howl. The old sheik, or high priest,
was moving about the altar, performing some sort of ceremony.
The negro, especially, became more and more excited. The sweat
rolled in rivulets down his face and neck. As he howled and
grunted, the slobber and sweat were thrown from him until the
gentlemen and ladies who stood immediately behind him had to
seek another point of observation, to keep from being spattered.
Not a moment’s rest, not a moment’s cessation, in the awful strain
to which they subjected themselves. When more than half an
hour had passed, and no respite, I asked, Can human nature bear
up much longer under this strain? I noticed one man begin to
grow unsteady on his legs. His howl seemed to die on his lips,
when at last he came down on his face in a faint. Two men went
to him, but he was unconscious. They rubbed his hands and
arms, and after a time he opened his eyes, and groaned like a
dying man. We could easily distinguish the noise he made from
the louder, united howl of the others. After some minutes be
revived sufﬁciently to stand up, and as soon as he was able took
his place again in line, and resumed his exercise, but I could see

