62 MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT.

cardinals are elected, and from the front piazza the proclamation
of a new pope is ﬁrst made. And my understanding was that
p0pes are elected only in this building.

Of course we visited the celebrated “ Scala Sancta,” or ﬂight of
twenty-eight steps, said to have been brought from “ Pilate’s house
in Jerusalem, specially venerated because Jesus Christ is said to
have ascended and descended them, bathing them in‘ his blood.”
Whether there be any truth in this story or not, there is no mis-
take of their veneration and use. You remember that Martin
Luther, when he was seeking justiﬁcation, came to these stairs,
and, as was required then, as now, commenced their ascent on
his knees. He climbed the stone steps. But these stones have
been so worn by the knees of the penitent, and those seeking in-
dulgences, that they had to cover them with wood.

I stood at the foot of these stairs and counted fourteen slowly
climbing them on their knees. All were women, except one, who
seemed to be a mere lad.

They would come in, reverently fall upon their knees on the
lowest step, remain in prayer for'at least a minute, and then, still
on their knees, climb to the next. It is said that he who climbs
these stairs on his knees, repeating the required prayers, will
have indulgence for a thousand years.

Oh, how my heart bled for these poor deluded creatures, when
I knew there was One then able and willing to speak their sins
forgiven in a moment. “For the just shall live by faith.”

But I must desist. I suppose there is not a city in the world
that is better supplied with water than the city of Rome. Foun-
tains pour out their wealth of water on every hand. The ruins of
the old Roman aqueduct challenge the admiration and wonder of
architects of the present day, while the aqueduct that supplies
the city at present would do honor to any city. The fountains
of which we have spoken are all of the most beautiful kind.
Many of them are composed of marble statues of men, and
animals of various kinds. Almost any one of the larger ones
wastes enough water in the twenty-four hours to supply a small
city.

The last afternoon in Rome, we took a drive on one of the hills
above the city, on the western side. As the sun was sinking, he
lit up the sides of the houses next to us, and presented a picture

 

 

 

