168 MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT.

were all mattered and matted together, and the lids were swollen
and inﬂamed, owing largely, if not altogether, to the neglect of
bathing their faces and their eyes.

The railrbad brings in a supply every day, and it is an inter-
esting sight to see the place where they discharge it surrounded
by men with goatskin bottles. Some of these skins will hold ten
gallons, at least. They will ﬁll them, sling them across their
backs, and go throughout the city selling it. The soil and dust
in and about the city is largely impregnated with lime, that,
when once upon the skin, almost deﬁes the power of soap to
thoroughly remove. Many families have cisterns, and in the
rainy season they ﬁll these, and in large measure are independent;
but the poorer classes are the ones that must suffer.

J OPPA .

We went from Jerusalem to Joppa,——Jaffa as it is now called,
—-passing over some historic ground. We had the birthplace of
Samson pointed out to us. We passed through the valley of
Sharon, in which we saw some very good land. Lydda, the place
where Peter healed Eneas of the palsy, after having been aﬂiicted
with it for eight years, was on this road, “nigh to J Oppa.” When
in J oppa, the house of Dorcas, whom Peter raised to life, was
visited by us; also the house of Simon the tanner, with whom
Peter was lodged when sent for to go to Caesarea to speak to
Cornelius words whereby he and all his house were to be saved.
This house is by the seaside, and we all went up upon the roof
where Peter had his vision. It was not a very auspicious day for
such a visit, for it was pouring down rain. But while upon the
housetop, it held up, and we enjoyed that part of it.

While at J oppa we saw our ﬁrst banyan tree. I recognized it
at once, though I had never seen one before. Though it was not
an old one, yet the spreading branches had thrown down shoots
that had taken roots in the earth, thus increasing the area and
the supports of the parent tree.

The storm that passed that day had raised the waves of the
Mediterranean, and made the sea very rough. The steamer upon
which we were to sail for Port Said, at the head of the Suez Canal,
Iay some distance out from the city, and we had to go out in a

