MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT. 61

This is now being removed. The locations of these buildings
have been discovered and their forms determined, for long lines
of parts of columns of the most beautiful pattern have been un-
covered. The day we were there, men were at work removing
the covering of earth that has hidden away and preserved these
remnants of Rome’s greatest structures.

Of the Temple of Jupiter three unbroken columns remain. In
this temple is a platform, where sat the highest in authority, and
to whom the conquerors came with the spoils of their victory,
and from whom they received the highest honors. The Temple
of Saturn was not far off. Eight pillars of this building still
stand. Near-by is the Temple of Castor and Pollux, with its
three pillars. These pillars are considered the most beautiful in
Rome. This temple was erected at the fount J uturna, where the
brothers Castor and Pollux watered their horses when they an-
nounced the victory of Lake Regulus to the Romans. Over the
fountain stand ﬁgures of two colossal horses, led by men of equal
proportions, to represent these brothers. _

We were shown the Spot where Romulus and Remus had their
contention about the height of the walls of Rome, which ended in
the death of Remus.

A live wolf is kept near the capital; also an eagle. I saw the
wolf. He is a ﬁne, large one. In the same inclosure is a monu-
ment to the memory of Rienzi, the last of the tribunes. On this
spot he was addressing the people, although advised not to ven-
ture among them, when he was slain.

I have not the time to write of the many objects of interest
shown me. Among them, however, I will mention a very large
bath of porphyry, which belonged to Nero. It was dug up from
the ruins of his palace.

I visited the celebrated Mamertine prison, where, tradition tells
us, St. Paul and St. Peter were imprisoned. It may be that the
former was. But two churches have been built over it; one above
the other. And while it is a veritable prison, dismal enough for
any age, yet the whole thing may have been altered to suit the
notion of some one who lived long after the time of the Apostles.

We visited church after church, until I began to tire of it. But
our guide took us to the Church of St. John. This is one of the
most important churches in Rome, from the fact that in it all

