50 MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT.

The building is lighted only by a circular opening at the top,
twenty-eight feet in diameter, but from the ﬂoor it looks not more
than ten feet. There are sixteen columns of Oriental granite in
front, made of single blocks crowned with beautiful capitals. I
estimated these columns at six feet in diameter at the base. The
doors are original, and are fourteen inches in thickness and
twenty feet in height. Very much of the interior was at one time
covered with the most beautiful bronze, but cupidity and supersti-
tion tore it away, leaving only enough to give one an idea of its
richness and beauty.

We drove over the Tiber, on a bridge built by the ancient
Romans. In widening the river at this point, it was necessary
to construct two additional arches at the ends of the bridge, but
the two central arches are those built by the Romans. A better
piece of work of the kind one seldom sees. They look as if they-
Will stand as long as the historic Tiber rolls its tide to the sea.
Near this bridge is another remarkable piece of masonry. It is a
sewer built a thousand years before the birth of Christ. It is of
great size, arched at the top, and looks as if it would stand three
thousand years more. It is said that Agrippa took a boat and
rowed into it, that he might with his own eyes see this wonderful
structure. Nothing of the kind at the present day surpasses it.
‘There are now twelve bridges in Rome, spanning the river Tiber.

ST. PETER’S.

Of course, St. Peter’s Church, under whose shadow is the Vati-
can, is one of the most celebrated of the world. I had formed a
very inadequate idea of its immense size, and it was not until I
had been all through it, and rode all around it, that I could grasp
its magnitude. In its construction, genius exhausted itself, and
the wealth of the richest church on earth was poured in lavish
profusion upon it. The most renowned sculptors of the world
gave the most skillful work of their hands to it. Painters have
expended all their skill in adorning its walls and frescoing its
ceilings. Kings, queens, potentates, princes, and the wealthiest
men and women of all lands, have given of their richest and best
gifts to it. Gold, silver, diamonds, rubies, and all manner of
precious stones from Orient and Occident ﬂame and sparkle on

 

