MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT. 153

time of Christ, and before, these Samaritans have had the Penta-
teuch, and have, in a measure at least, carried out its rites and
ceremonies. The Jews, since the destruction of Jerusalem, have
never kept the passover, and yet these despised Samaritans, who
live in Shechem, go upon Mount Gerizim, that stands above their
city, and sacriﬁce the paschal lamb, and keep the feast according
to the law of Moses. They have no union or communion with
any other people, and year by year they have decreased in num-
bers, until now there are but two hundred of them. They pos-
sess the oldest copy of the Pentateuch in the world. Carefully
have they guarded it all these centuries. It is said to be 3,570
years old.

The plan of our itinerary arranged to see this old manuscript,
with other things, on the Sabbath, so I had to deny myself the
great pleasure of seeing it. But I am God’s, soul and body, and
I feel that if Icannot deny myself for him, I am unworthy of
him. I do not think I am a formalist, or that there is any virtue
in mortifying the ﬂesh, but when my pleasure is put against a
plain command of God, my pleasure must give way.

I looked upon this as a trial of .my faith. It was suggested to
me that this was not sightseeing; we were going to a synagogue,
to see a portion of God’s word, and there could be no harm in it.
Some suggested that it was an act of worship. But I said, “To
me it is not an act of worship. I go to see it from motives of
curiosity; to say that I have seen this oldest copy of the Penta-
teuch in existence.” Then I turned to God’s word and read, “If
thou turn away thy foot from the Sabbath, from doing thy pleas-
ure on my holy day, and call the Sabbath a- delight, the holy of
the Lord, honorable, and shall honor him, not doing thine own
ways, nor ﬁnding thine own pleasure, nor speaking thine own
words: then shalt thou delight thyself in the Lord; and I will
cause thee to ride upon the high places of the earth, and feed thee
with the heritage of Jacob thy father; for the mouth of the Lord
hath spoken it.” .

That settled the matter with me, and I never saw the famous
manuscript. ‘

GERIZIM AND EBAL.

Hard-by the village of Shechem are Gerizim and Ebal,—-—the.

Mount of Blessing and the Mount of Cursing. Six men were to

