MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT. '129

BAALBEK.

Our plan was to begin our horseback-ride from Beirut, to end
at Jerusalem. But we changed our purpose somewhat, sent the
horses on ahead with our contingent of twenty-three Arabs, while
we went some distance by rail to a point near Baalbek. Just at
sundown we reached our camp near Baalbek with its wonderful
ruins.

We had passed over a part of the Lebanon range and up
through a broad plain lying between Lebanon and Anti-Lebanon.
We here noticed a circumstance that we found to prevail all over
Syria and Palestine. There are no farm-houses,—no families live
out in the country; but they all live in towns and villages, and
go out in the morning to their work, and return in the evening.
This fact turns light upon an eXpression frequently found in the
Scriptures; such as, he “sent his disciples into the towns whither
he himself would come,” and “I must go to other towns.” The
people were all living in towns, and to preach to people in the
towns was to reach all. It has always been dangerous to live in
the country, and not less so now than formerly. In going up
this beautiful valley we saw our ﬁrst camp of Bedouins, or “ sons
of the desert.” I counted some thirty of their black tents, and
thought of the expression, “black as the tents of Kedar.”

Just like their fathers of three thousand years ago, they make
their tents of the same material, and have no certain dwelling-
place. Their camels were roaming about over the plains, and
here and there we could see their horses and asses.

Baalbek is now an insigniﬁcant place, with houses built of ma-
terial, much of which has been taken from some of the grandest
buildings in the world. In fact, for ages the ruins of Baalbek
have been a veritable quarry, from which have been taken the
choicest pillars, stones, and images with which to build and
ornament cities and temples both in Asia and Europe.

Our camp was pitched near a great fountain, or spring, that
breaks out at the foot of a mountain, forming a river without the
aid of tributaries. Mills are run by its waters not a quarter of a
mile from the spring. We could not but admire our tents. They
were made of the 'very best material, and lined with patchwork
of the most elaborate patterns. They remind one of a “crazy-

