MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT. 85

all Greece. The columns, and frieze, and architrave that now lie
in broken fragments on this storm-torn mountain were then all
in their places, rich in all the splendor of art and man’s device,
glittering in the sunlight as if the hill were a crown of alabaster,
challenging not only the admiration but the worship of men.
Within that temple stood the crowned statue of Minerva, made
of ivory and gold, sparkling in the splendors of diamonds and
rubies and other precious and costly gems. Then right about
him were the seats of the judges, who invested themselves and
their courts with all that pomp and paraphernalia well calculated
to strike awe into the minds of the culprits brought before them.
We were told as we sat there, that the custom was to hold the
courts only at night, and with no other light than that of the
moon. The criminal sat facing the judges and the moon, while
the judges themselves sat in the shadows. There was no cover-
ing to this place of judgment, so Paul stood beneath the open
sky. Before and below him was the market-place. Beyond that,
the city,’ with its tens of thousands of busy multitudes rushing
here and there in the throb and beat of life. Turning to his left,
he could see the restless, surging sea; to his right, the Stadium,
with its circling seats for eighty thousand spectators to the races
and wrestling-matches. Nearsby, he could see the gleaming tomb-
stones, marking the site of the city of the dead; and round
about it all, like a rampart, the environing mountains lifted their
giant forms; and above all the blue empyrean, maybe ﬂecked
here and there with a passing cloud.

All this, and more, was about this great Apostle to the Gentiles
as he stood on Mars’ Hill. Was it not enough to “stir his
spirit ”? He had “ encountered the philosophers of the Epicureans
and of the Stoics”; had listened to their babblings, and vain, un-
satisfying reasonings. And now they had taken him to this
place of judgment, and stood waiting about him to hear what he
would say. His teachings were different from theirs, and they
“would know, therefore, what these things mean.” They who
“spent their time in nothing else but either to tell or to hear
some new thing” were now waiting before him. With a master
hand he touched that on which they prided themselves most, -—
their devotion to their gods. The streets of their city were lined
with their gods, and temples and shrines crowned every available

