MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT. 127

taking on cargo. We embraced the opportunity of taking a run
on shore, and seeing what we could of this one of the cities of the
seven churches in Asia to whom letters were sent. Learning that
the Christian martyr Polycarp, one of the fathers, and a disciple
of John, was buried here, we hired a carriage and drove up the
hill that rises back of the city, and found his tomb. It is marked
by a monument of stone, perhaps ten by ﬁve feet, and nearly six
feet high. It is covered with cement and is neatly whitewashed.
They say there is but little doubt but this is the actual place of
his burial. A great city lies beneath his resting-place.

We passed Patmos at night, and I did not see it. About noon
we passed Coos. Sailing under Cyprus, we had that island in
sight for several hours.

BEIRUT.

We reached Beirut, Friday morning, October 11th. The ladies
of our party did some shopping in the morning. In the after-
noon our dragoman had our horses brought out for trial. He
had carefully selected them in Jerusalem, and brought them over
to Beirut for us. His name is Seleh el Karey.

He was born at Shechem, is six feet‘six inches high, and weighs
about three hundred pounds, with no surplus ﬂesh. He is the
most powerful man I ever saw, and does not seem to know his
own strength. His dress is purely Oriental. He wears a turban,
and his pants, if such they may be called, ﬂow down between
his feet, within three inches of the ground. They were gathered
thick about the waist, both before and behind, and were of the
ﬁnest material. One or two pair were of silk. One of the ladies
asked him how many yards were in a single pair, and he said
twenty-seven. He wore a sword in proportion to his size, and a
pistol at his belt. He is in great favor with the sheiks through
whose territory we are to pass, and this insures us perfect safety.
He knows every road and village in the land, and seems to have
the right of way everywhere. He goes right into orchards and
olive-yards, where we eat our lunch or pitch our tents. We usu-
ally camp near some village, and he hires some one of the place
to patrol our camp while we are asleep. This always gives him
favor with the people.

He is a member of the Baptist church in Shechem, and seems

