98 MY TRIP To THE ORIENT.

CHAPTER VI.

CONSTANTINOPLE — Does — POLICEMEN — FIRE DEPARTMENT — MUSEUM —
MosQUE OF ST. SOPHIA — HOWLING DEBVIBHEB — TEE SULTAN — SMYRNA
— GRAVE 0F POLYCAEP — BEIBUT —— BAALBEK — AEANA RIVER -‘-— A
SYRIAN WEDDING.

CON STANTIN OPLE .

LEAVING ATHENS in an Austrian steamer, we were soon sweep-
ing up the Egean Sea, among the islands of the Grecian Archi-
pelago, many of which mark epochs and instances memorable in
mythology as well as in actual history. As we threaded the Dar-
danelles, the site of ancient Troy, so long lost to history, but re-
cently brought to light by the spade of the archaeologist, was
pointed out to us. We could scarcely realize that a spot now not
differing from the long line of coast on which it lay, with neither
castle, moat, nor wall to mark it from the rest, was the scene of
such a siege as it endured, and was the scene of one of the great-
est epics of the world of literature. There, in the Hellespont,
we saw where Leander courageously swam it, and in later years,
when Lord Byron would weave his daring deed in verse that
was to immortalize his name, to prove that the deed was not
impossible, performed the feat himself.

On Sunday morning early we reached Constantinople, the
capital of the Turkish Empire, and the residence of the Sultan.
We soon reached our hotel, having had our passports carefully
passed through the hands of the proper authorities, and our bag-
gage examined by the custom—house ofﬁcers. After a hasty toilet
we were conducted by our guide to the English church, where we
listened to a service of over an hour and a sermon of twelve
minutes. The rest of the day I spent in my room. In the
evening, our little party gathered in one of our rooms, and we
had a service of our own. I preached as best I could, and our
hearts were greatly comforted. We felt the presence of the Com-
forter as we worshiped in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ.

This is a great city of over one million inhabitants. It lies on

