32 MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT.

and other forms of clay. It is remarkable a material should be
selected, that, while abundant, was indestructible by the elements.
Think of writing on any material now used— paper, parchment, or
even metal itself—lying buried in soil soaked with the rains of
thousands of years, that may be subject to ﬁres, as well as ﬂoods,
and coming out as clear and distinct as when ﬁrst written. Clay,
when prepared and burned, becomes this indestructible material.
It becomes ﬁxed. It can no more be reduced either by ﬁre, air, or
water to its original soft and pliant state. These people of olden
time were not slow to discover this fact; and while at ﬁrst they
may have selected this material to make immortal the deeds of
their kings and great men, the common people could use it on all
other occasions and for all other purposes. Kings, in building,
had inscribed the fact of their reign on all the bricks used in their
buildings; and here are great numbers of these bricks with the
stamps of kings who reigned from three thousand to four thou-
sand years ago.

Sometimes the most ingenious shapes were given to these clay
records. They even made envelopes of clay, in which to send
messages and letters. I saw great numbers of these, some of them
about the size and shape of a lady’s portemonnaie, and the letter
inclosed just the shape of the little cocoanut cakes we buy in the
shops. I suppose things were not done in such a rush as now-
adays. Think of a young man, when desiring to communicate
with his beloved, mixing a lot of clay, writing his messages on it,
taking another batch, inscribing her name and address, laying
them out in the sun to dry, then putting them in a kiln to bake
before sending! I saw deeds conveying lands, and records con-
cerning the sale of sheep and cows.

Then there were tablets ten by three inches, half an inch thick,
with a list of wearing—apparel, etc., with a number of small holes
after each article. I suppose the careful housewife, when she sent
out her washing, stuck little sticks or pins in these holes to keep
a record of how many of each article were sent out.

But one thing interested me very much, and that was part of a
baked-clay cylinder inscribed in Babylonian characters, giving
an account of the capture of Babylon by Cyrus, B. C. 539.

Then there were several of these cylinders ten inches long, made
in the exact shape of a keg, with the hoops, four in number, rep-

 

 

 

