MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT. 123

quickly taken from it and led away. Then came a carriage,
made as beautiful as art could devise, groomsmen in gorgeous
uniforms walking by the horses, on each side, with the Sultan
seated alone on the back seat. Two ofﬁcers sat in front of him.
He wore on his head what appeared to be a red fez, or cap. As
he passed down the street, he bowed and waved his hand several
times to those near him. Shouts broke from the vast crowds
of soldiery and pe0ple, that formed a solid mass in all the streets
round about the mosque. We got a good look at His Royal
Highness. A rich carpet was spread upon the steps of the mosque
for the Sultan to walk upon. What was done in the inside we
could not see, and did not know. But we thought it a great ado
to make over one man’s prayers. Every Friday this scene is
re-enacted.

After the Sultan entered the mosque, a saddle-horse with gilded
trappings was led to the door to wait the pleasure of His Highness;
for no one knows whether he will choose to return to his palace
in his carriage or on horseback, so every preparation is made for
any whim. We did not wait to see what he would do, but re-
turned to our hotel, thanking God that we had been taught a
better way, and that “God is no respecter of persons: but in
every nation he that feareth him, and worketh righteousness, is
accept with him.”

I was struck with the dress and appearance of the soldiers,
and said to our guide, who is himself a subject of the Sultan,
“These soldiers must be well paid.” -——“No,” said he; “they re-
ceive but one medjidie [about one dollar] per month, and some-
times they are not paid for eighteen months.”-—“But,” I said,
“they are well fed.”—-“No; very poorly. But they are loyal to
their country, and are willing to ﬁght and die for their Sultan.”

Such a country I have never seen. Blessed with a climate
almost unsurpassed in the world, with much of her soil of the
best, on the highways of commerce between the East and the
West, with millions of people under her dominion, and yet her
roads are rough, unworked trails running over mountain and dale,
where they were located thousands of years ago.

Constantinople, located on the Golden Horn and the Bosphorus,
with unsurpassed advantages, and a population of over a mil-
lion, has only two insigniﬁcant factories,—one for the manu-

