140 MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT.

of the men are made very full, hanging down between the feet,
sometimes within three or four inches of the ground. We are
told of a man who went out and gathered his lap full of wild
gourds. With such pants, a man has a lap, and as I entered
Cmsarea Philippi I met a man with his lap full of a sort of squash-

We . spent the Sabbath at Caesarea Philippi, and at eleven.
o’clock our little company gathered under some great old olive
trees, and as I stood in the shadow of Mount Hermon, where
doubtless the transﬁguration took place, I took that for my theme,
and as I discussed it, I felt that I was not far from the spot on
which the Saviour stood when he made this wonderful diSplay to
the chosen three. We know that he was in the coasts of Cwsarea
Philippi, and that he went up into a high mountain; and this
one high mountain answers to the description. As I looked up
its sides I could see over a roll where he could have been shut
out from a vision of the plain below, and yet be high up the
mountain. We all enjoyed the discussion of this unique passage
in the life of our blessed Lord.

Most of our party took a stroll to the great fountain or spring
that forms one of the sources of the Jordan. Brother Pepper and
family and I felt better to remain in camp. But that we might
not be disappointed, Solie, our dragoman, took us by starlight to
the place, next morning, and we were by the early daylight
enabled to see all that was to be seen. We were back in camp,
.ate breakfast with the rest, and were ready for our day’s ride.

During this morning’s ride we were shown what purported to
be the tomb of Terah, the father of Abraham. But Terah died
in Haran, and I have no idea that'Abraham brought his body
over forty miles for burial.

We were now in a part of the inheritance of Dan,—the part
that they took from a people who “had no business with any
man.” N aphtali had his inheritance here, in the far north. We
found some very large and fertile valleys here in his inheritance.
At night we camped at another great spring breaking out at the
foot of the mountain. It was of sufﬁcient volume to turn a rude-
mill with two sets of stones. 'We went into this mill. In the
one small room were three donkeys, a horse, and a goat, all mixed
up in the most familiar manner. Cleanliness is not one of the
characteristics of this people. Our camp was in sight of Lake

