MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT. 25

A plain, moldering, crumbling slab of white marble, not distin-
guished from the hundreds that stand about it, marks the grave
in which she lies. As I stood and deciphered the moss-covered
inscription that tells who and what she was, I felt that here in
this silent city of the dead was not the place to look for her memo-
rial, or to read of her virtues and her fame, but every one of the
holy lives of the multiplied millions of Methodists of the world
turned a ray of light on- her tomb and made it glow with un- '
dimmed splendor. This is one of the most wonderful cemeteries
in London. During the great London plague, that marks one of
the most appalling chapters in the history of any city, one hun-
dred thousand victims of that plague were dumped into this Cen-
tral graveyard. Above these masses of the dead, the present
cemetery stands.

Here rest the remains of Daniel De Foe, the author of that book
of books for boys, “Robinson Crusoe.” Who has not read it, and
been charmed by the graphic descriptions of the lonely ship-
wrecked sailor and his man Friday? His tomb tells us he was
born in 1661 and that he died in 1731.

In this cemetery lie the remains of the great hymn-writer,
Isaac Watts. How his hymns for children have helped the young
to grasp the thoughts of God, and give expression to feelings of
devotion 1 As I laid my hand on the stone that covers his lifeless
clay, I felt that his hymns would long outlast the marble that
loving hands had placed above him.

Not far from Mrs. Wesley’s grave is that of John Bunyan, au-
thor of “Pilgrims’ Progress.” He died in his sixtieth year. His
tomb is somewhat peculiar. It is of marble; on the top is chiseled
a prone ﬁgure to represent the dreamer; on one side, in has-relief,
is the pilgrim, with his burden on his back, at the open grave,
where he lost his burden forever. On the other side we ﬁnd him
at the cross.

Here, also, is the grave of Richard Cromwell, a son of Oliver
Cromwell, the latter one of the most noted men in English his-
tory. I had pointed out to me a small park, where tradition
tells that the body of Oliver Cromwell is buried; though this is
disputed, as almost all traditions are.

I could not but copy the unique inscription plainly chiseled on
an old tomb. On one side is the following:—

