MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT. 157

JERUSALEM.

We spent nearly 'a week in Jerusalem. Among the ﬁrst places
visited was the Mosque of Omar, that occupies the exact spot
where,Solomon’s Temple stood. The only thing of interest to me '
was the location. The mosque, grand as it was, was but so much
rubbish in my way. As we reached the door of the mosque, each
one of us had to put slippers over our shoes, as no unhallowed
foot of a Christian dog was allowed to touch the sacred ﬂoor of
this building. We had been subjected to this requirement at
every mosque we entered.

But wherever we went we were expected to contribute back-
sheesh at every turn. At one place the Arab who was accom-
panying us came to a spot in the ﬂoor covered with a mat. He
reverently uncovered it, and showed three nails and a half driven
in the ﬂoor, and informed us that every hundred years one of
these nails would leave, and that when the last one vanished, the
world would come to an end. He also told us that if we would
lay a piece of coin on the head of one of the nails we would be
sure to go up to heaven. I laid down a Turkish coin worth
about twelve cents, and from his astonishment and action you
would have thought I was going up that minute. He gathered
up the coin and put it in his own belt. Whether he will report
my claim or not, I can’t tell. I shall not depend on him, anyway.

Under the center of the dome is an immense rock, perhaps
twenty feet across, said by the Moslems to be. the altar of sacriﬁce
used in Solomon’s Temple. It is a rough, unhewn rock. Near
its center is a hole, down which, they say, the blood ran. At one
time, Gabriel came down and stood on this rock, and when he
started back to heaven, it stuck to his feet, and was going up with
him, when Mohammed seized and held it. And they say that it
is now suspended in the air, where Mohammed left it; and they
showed us the print of his hands on the rock where he seized it.
These are some of the stories that are told us.

The location and the area came up to my expectation, and I
walked over the grounds and tried to banish the buildings with
which they are encumbered, and see it as the place where the
God of Israel—our God—saw ﬁt to record his name, and where
he visited his peOple.

