.MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT. 173

I could do but one, so I chose to go inside and see where the
kings and queens had been laid away when this work of forty
centuries ago was built as their resting-place. Three Arabs of-
fered to help me in and out. Two of them took me by the hands,
while the other walked behind to “boost” me over the hard
places. I entered on the north side, and went down an inclined
opening of perhaps thirty—ﬁve or forty degrees. Down, down, I
went, placing my feet in little indentations of this inclined ﬂoor,
the Arab that went before me often placing his bare foot at the
edge to keep mine from slipping. This opening, lined on all
sides with marble, points directly to the north or polar star. So
every night from its depths can be seen this noted star. This,
with the fact that all the Pyramids are built with reference to
the points of the compass, shows that those who planned them
were scientiﬁc men.

After going down for a great distance, we came to where a rock
lay so low overhead, that I had to get down on my hands and
knees to get through. Our way then led upward about as far
as we had gone downward. At one point we reached a square
hole that went down like a well. One of the Arabs took a candle
and went down some twenty feet, and by the dim light of his
candle he showed me the sarcophagus of a queen. Her em».
balmed body has long since been taken from its resting-place to
some museum. In this utilitarian, prying age, even the multi-
plied millions of tons of rock, as in this Pyramid, cannot secure
undisturbed repose to the bodies of the greatest of earth, or hide
from the gaze of the curious the mostsacred remains. The tombs
of the kings were found higher up.

. After threading these strange and well—constructed chambers
to our satisfaction, I turned my face to the entrance. When I
reached it, then the three Arabs set up a plea for “backsheesh.”
After I had paid each one what I thought was right, then the fel-
low that went down to show me the queen’s sarcophagus wanted
“backsheesh” for that. Then each of them pulled out some
coins with verdegris on them, and they wanted .to sell them to
me,—“something to remember my Arabs by, who helped me in
the Pyramid, when I got back to America”; 'and so appeal after
appeal was made, until I broke away from all but one of them.
He stuck to‘ me. When I visited the. Sphinx he persiSted in

 

