MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT. 103

minutes for every vestige of it to disappear. I saw a man empty
out a lot of scraps; around him were twenty-ﬁve or thirty dogs,
and you may rest assured it was no quiet meal.

They are born, and live, and die in the streets. They call no
man master, and as far as I could see or learn, they know no
man after the ﬂesh, but are perfectly independent.

POLICEMEN .

Another thing that struck me was the movements of the police-
men at night. They go through the city at night, ever and anon
striking the pavement with a heavy club or walking-cane. This
beat is answered in some adjoining street by a similar beat.
Sometimes they seemed to telegraph to each other through these
beats. Of course this custom has come down through the ages;
and may not our term, referring to the section to which a police-
man is conﬁned,—his “beat,” — have come from this custom?

These Turks are behind in everything except soldiering.
Everywhere else we have been, they have the electric light,
especially in the hotels. Here they use candles. And their ﬁre
department is a curiosity. We visited the tower of Galata,
located in the heart of the city. It is 180 feet high. We climbed
to the t0p of it. I had quite an experience when I reached the
t0p and stepped out on the balcony. A strong wind caught my
hat and sent it ﬂying through the air, and landed it on the top
of a house far below. I never expected to get it again. But our
guide had watched it in its ﬂight, saw where it landed, and point-
ing it out to one of the ﬁremen, sent him after it. Away he went,
and in due time we saw him mount to the tile roof and seize my
wayward tile. One franc paid him for his trouble. But I com-
menced to tell you about the ﬁre department and its plan of
Operation.

Ten or twelve men remain in this building night and day.
One is ever at the uppermost point of the tower, that commands
a view of the whole city. If he discovers a ﬁre, he at once rushes
down to the room below and announces the fact and the location
of the ﬁre to the department. Each member seizes a stick,
very much like an ox—goad, some four feet long, with a lance or
bayonet on the end of it, and with a prolonged howl goes rushing

