MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT. 143

ment. But the towns round about, where our Lord so often went,
and preached, and wrought his miracles of healing and mercy,
where are they? They were then full of people; the land smiled
with prosperity and plenty; but that wonderful peasant of N aza-
reth lifted his hand, and in accents of pity said, “ Wo unto thee,
Chorazinl wo unto thee, Bethsaidal for if the mighty works
which were done in you had been done in Tyre and Sidon, they
would have repented long ago in sackcloth and ashes. But I say
unto you, It shall be more tolerable for Tyre and Sidon at the day
of judgment, than for you. And thou, Capernaum, which art
exalted unto heaven, shall be brought down to hell: for if the
mighty works, which have been done in thee, had been done in
Sodom, it would have remained until this day. But I say
unto you, That it shall be more tolerable for the land of Sodom
in the day of judgment, than for thee.”

CAPE RNAUM.

We asked our dragoman where these cities were. He pointed
to a hill not far off, and to a little heap of ruins, and said, “That
is Capernaum.” But there is some, doubt about it. And thus of
other towns mentioned in this doomed catalogue.

The name of Jesus is honored and loved round the world. The
wealth of nations has been poured into the lap of his church; his
words are treasured above all things beneath the sun, while the
very sites of these doomed cities have been lost to the world.
The very mountains round about the Sea of Galilee, which were
once clothed in verdure, are now grinning with bare, gray rocks
from summit to base, the most desolate object I saw in all Pales-
tine.

Locked in the arms of these hard, desolate mountains lay the
Sea of Galilee, as beautiful as when Jesus walked its shores or
rode on its surface, its clear and limpid waters mirroring rock
and mountain with faultless perfection on its placid surface. It
was the one thing in Palestine that ﬁlled my ideal, and that had
remained through the ages the same unalterated, unalterable gem
of the Jordan. Its waters were as clear and sweet as if they had
just broken from their fountains in the mountains of Lebanon.
When we reached its shores in the morning, its surface was as

