18 MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT.

that were thought to be inexhaustible, of nearly all the good tim-
ber. He gave a large order to a lumberman not long since, and
when it was ﬁlled he complained of the inferior quality of the
lumber, when, to his astonishment, he was told that the supply
of good lumber was exhausted.

I saw carload after carload of logs on the way to the mills to be
sawed into lumber, that were only a little larger than telegraph
poles.

Tuesday night we had on board of our train United States
Senator Carter of Montana, who is credited with having made the
longest Speech ever made in the United States,——thirteen hours
and twenty minutes. It was no mere windy talk against time,
but it was a giant effort against a money-stealing harbor appro-
priation bill for ﬁfty million dollars. He looked up the whole
thing, posting himself on the depth and capacity of all the harbors
for which appropriations were sought, and when he charged down
on the thieving cohorts, he walked the deck of his ship like
Dewey at Manila, without an enemy in sight.

Is n’t it a humiliating fact that there are men wearing the toga
of the United States who ought to be wearing the stripes of the
state prison, among other thieves?

Minneapolis and St. Paul are two great inland cities, only
eleven miles apart. They both seem to be in a thriving condition.

We reached Chicago at seven, A. M., Wednesday, and left for
New York at ten; so'we saw nothing of this great city.

We had a little thunder-shower the evening before reaching
Chicago. I could see the lightning playing in the cloud, although
it was either too distant or the cars made too much noise for us
to hear the thunder. .

As we passed through portions of Indiana, we saw a great num-
ber of towers or derricks (I am not posted on oil nomenclature)
for boring for oil. They were all new, so the oil fever must be of
recent date in these parts. I counted more than a dozen in sight
at one time from the car window, and once or twice I caught the
scent of oil,—so somebody has struck it.

When we got over into Pennsylvania we had a ﬁne rain. And
now, as I write, we are rapidly nearing New York, the end of my
journey by land. We shall see what we shall see when we get to
sea.

 

