142 MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT.

or preperty. Both civilly and religiously, they have been “ broken
off” from the parent stem, and aliens have been grafted in, and,
contrary to nature, are partakers of the root and fatness of their
possessions. There is no doubt about the power of God to graft
them in again. But will he do it? I answer according to the
Scripture: not if they continue in unbelief. Rothschild may
pour out his millions,—may, if possible, buy up the whole land,
and make proclamation to his peOple all over the earth to come
and occupy, but unless He who said “Without me ye can do
nothing” shall smile upon the enterprise, the whole will fail.
The laws of God’s righteousness are as unalterable as his own
being.

SEA OF GALILEE.

At a little after nine o’clock, October 22, 1901, I ﬁrst caught
sight of the Sea of Galilee. From the top of a hill I looked down
upon it. There was not a ripple upon its placid face. I thought
how often my Lord and Master had seen it from the same point,
as, his heart burdened for the good of the people, he toiled thither
and looked down upon its placid face. He could see the thickly
populated towns that then stood near it, that now are in ruins,
—the very sites of many of them now lost.

We could see where the Jordan came in on the north, and the
beautiful grassy spot was pointed out where, tradition tells us, he
fed the ﬁve thousand. We know that tradition cannot be far
wrong in this case; for there are Scripture points enough to hold
us near the place.

BETHSAIDA.

We reached the sea at what is called Bethsaida. But little of
the town is left, and maybe this is not the Bethsaida of Christ’s
time. There are, however, enough of ruins lying about to mark
it as a place of some importance in the far past. And whether
it be the place of that name in Christ’s time, yet doubtless it was
one of the places where he preached and taught.

We took our lunch on the shore of the Sea of Galilee. We
wandered up and down its rocky shore, and called up many a
scene in the life of Christ as they are recorded in the New Testa-

