MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT. 67

like a book that has been closed for multiplied centuries, now
thrown wide open, tell of the folly of this people.

There are things portrayed on the walls of some of their houses,
of which we cannot speak, that reveal to us the fact that society
among these people was rotten to the core. And doubtless their
sins, like those of the cities of the plain, smelled unto heaven,
and brought the swift judgment of God upon them.

And as it was in the days of Abraham: “And he looked toward
Sodom and Gomorrah, and toward all the land of the plain, and
beheld, and, lo, the smoke of the country went up as the smoke
of a furnace.”

So old Vesuvius, as the instrument in God’s hand, still sends
up his smoke, “like the smoke of a furnace,” to tell us of the
power and of the righteous indignation of God,—an emblem,—
as Jude expresses it, “an example, suffering the vengeance of
eternal ﬁre.” ' '

Great beds of lava from the lips of the crater to the sea still lie
inorusting the mountain to its base. And yet on this very lava
towns are built, and people live as careless as did the inhabitants
of Pompeii.

I stood near the thick coating of earth and ashes with which
the city has been covered for centuries, but now being removed,
and thought how wonderfully God has kept his secrets until now,
and what careful hands he has employed to reveal them.

Our stay in Naples was so short, we did not have time to visit
the museum in which are laid up the choisest treasures of
Pompeii.- But on our return we have promised to look farther,
and perhaps‘to climb Vesuvius itself.

As we approached Pompeii, our guide pointed out the factories
where the great body of macaroni is manufactured. Tons upon
tons of it are turned out here every year. He gave me the his-
tory of its name.

A certain king, that had more food than appetite, sent his ser-
vant to the market to get something very nice. He came back
with a lot of hollow noodles. When asked about them, he said,
“It cost very dear.” (Of course speaking in Italian.) The sen-
tence sounds like “macaroni.” And that gave name to this
Italian delicacy, that is known round the world.

One afternoon, Brother Pepper and I drove to the outskirts of

