MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT. . 15].—

a bunch of grass. They reminded me of a lot of ﬁshers. The
well was forty-ﬁve or ﬁfty feet deep, and perhaps half a dozen
would be ﬁshing for water at the same time. As they drew their
bags up, the water would be streaming back into the well, and
hardly half of it would ﬁnd its way into the jars. But they
would drop the bag in again, jabbering all the time in the
most vociferous manner. When all were ready, each one would
adroitly lift her jar to her head, and march up the steep
hill to the village above. Generation after generation have
women with toil and labor carried all the water used in the
household in this way.

N ABOTH’S VINEYARD.

Just below this well is the place of N aboth’s vineyard, for
which the poor fellow was put to death at the instigation of J eze-
bel, that Ahab might take possession of it. Whether this were
the spot or not, it was near here, and this is a beautiful place for
a vineyard. Here, hard-by, we were shown the tower from which
this same wicked Jezebel was thrown.

Off to our left was a brook, making its way to the Jordan,
where Gideon’s men drank as they were rushing after the Midian-
ites. When we saw all these things with our own eyes, we felt
that we were indeed in Bible lands, and where history was made.

DOTHAN .

Soon we came to Dothan, where Joseph was so cruelly treated
and sold by his brethren. As we were frequently meeting the
Bedouins as they trudged along with their camels and donkeys,
it took but a little stretch of the imagination to reproduce the
whole scene as described in the Bible.

Here, too, at Dothan sat the pr0phet Elisha when the Syrian
hosts surrounded the place, and his servant exclaimed, “Alas,
my master, how shall we do?” And the prophet told him there
were more with him than with them, and prayed God to Open
his eyes, and all the mountains round about were full of horses
and chariots. It was marvelous to 100k out upon the very moun-
tains once pressed by the wheels of these chariots of the heavenly
hosts, which were there to defend a single servant of God.

