52 MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT.

eighty pounds more than I, at the foot of the ladder, I advised
himoi the strait, and doubted his ability to squeeze through.
But, nothing daunted, he took off his coat and vest, and prepared
to climb and squeeze. He succeeded, but said if he had been a
little larger, or the hole a little smaller, he never could have done
so. Most of the young ladies of our party also succeeded in
making the trip.

I have spoken of the pictures and of the frescoing that adorn
the walls and ceiling of the dome. These are not all paintings,
but some are mosaic, hence they are as bright and distinct as the
day they were made, and will be for a thousand years to come.
Nor are they copies, but were made by the Masters themselves.
In building and adorning this central church of Catholicism,
popes have vied with one another in employing the best artists
and most renowned painters of the world. And these artists and
painters have been glad to lay upon these altars the best fruit of
their skill, that they might perpetuate their names and fame, and
be talked of round the world. But one must see this wonder of
architecture and painting to properly appreciate it. No descrip-
tion can convey an adequate idea of it.

Our guide secured for us the privilege of viewing the treasures
of the Pope as stored in this church. There is too much of it,
and it is too varied to describe. Were I sitting before it as I
write, my powers would fail me, and I should simply confuse you.
I shall therefore select only a few things, and speak of, not de-
cribe, them. . '

They have the royal robe of Charlemagne. This is a sort of
cloak, with as much of gold as could be wrought in it. To me it
looked clumsy. Perhaps if I had seen it on the shoulders of the
great Chieftain it might have looked better.

There was shown us the jubilee robe of Pope Pius IX. This,
too, was heavy with gold, and to my eye it was more striking
than that of Charlemagne.

There is a. colossal statue of St. Peter in the church, that is
dressed, as if alive, once a year, —June 29th. The miter placed
upon the head is of immense size, corresponding with the size of
the statue. It is covered all over with diamonds and other rare
and costly gems. The miter itself is largely of gold. The robes
are all covered with beautiful ﬁgures wrought in gold.

 

 

 

