38 MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT.

victims laid their necks to have their heads chopped off. The ax
with which the bloody deed was done is also preserved. It is the
one with which Lord Lovat was beheaded, April 1, 1747. The
handle is about two feet in length, and the blade is about ﬁfteen
inches long and about ten inches wide at the cutting edge.

One of the most wonderful and elaborately carved brass cannons
that I ever saw is here. It was brought from Malta in 1798.
The barrel, four feet long, is most beautifully carved, while on
the carriage, at the breech, are two ﬁgures carved in wood. They
appear as bound to the carriage, the mouths wide open as if
screaming in agony, while every feature of their faces is distorted
with pain. The inevitable wood-worms have bored innumerable
little holes all through these ﬁgures. Here, as elsewhere, God,
through his various agencies, lays his effacing ﬁngers on all things
here below, and mocks the impotency of man.

We stood in the prison where many a royal victim had been
conﬁned. Monograms, names, letters, and sentences are chiseled
- in the hard rock,—done by prisoners who had naught else to do
to while away the time while Waiting on the will of their captors.

We were conducted into the chapel, where was pointed out the
oldest organ in England. It is still in use. Lastly, we entered
the jewel-room, where all the crown jewels are kept. They are
inclosed in an immense glass-case, that is a room of itself. There
we saw the crowns of the king and queen of the British Empire,
and were permitted to gaze as long as we liked upon the spar—
kling gems that adorned them. Diamonds, rubies, and pearls were
stuck all over them. By the side of these crowns lay the scepters
of royalty, the elaborate maces, borne on state occasions by the
servants of the king. Salt-urns that would hold a gallon, wine-
receptacles of great size, all of solid gold, to be used at coronation
banquets, and other things too numerous to mention, were laid up
and guarded in this room and Tower.

As I stood and looked at these royal jewels and paraphernalia
of power and dignity, I felt that perhaps,_after all, I experienced
as much real pleasure and satisfaction in looking at them as the
owners of them did in wearing them, and I could not but think of
the coronation day that awaits the faithful servant of God and
Jesus Christ. We shall need no tower, no soldiers to guard our
treasures. For there shall be nothing to harm or hurt us in that

 

