146 MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT.

CANA OF GALILEE.

At noon we reached the village of Cana of Galilee, where “ Jesus
made the water wine.” It is a little, insigniﬁcant village, with _
no Special mark about it. Of course we were taken into a church,
and down under the ground, and shown the very spot where the
miracle was performed, and they pretend to have preserved two
of the water-pots. But as I have found everywhere, the clumsi-
ness stamps the whole thing as a fraud. Instead of “ water-pots
of stone, after the manner of the purifying of the Jews,” they
have two immense stone mortars—shall I call them? —-—six inches
in thickness, set in the side of the altar. A child could see the
fraud.

I saw a constant stream of women with water-jars on their
heads going to and from the village to the fountain. I followed
the procession till I came to the fountain. A dozen or more
women and girls stood round about it. There was a square well,
about three feet in diameter, and some ten or twelve feet deep.
In the bottom was a stone standing a few inches above the
water. The water poured in a constant stream through the bot-
tom of this fountain. There were holes or niches in the two oppo-
site sides of the well.

A woman would descend with her jar and take her stand on the
rock, sinking her jar as deep as it would go in the water. She
would then take her hand and throw the water in until the jar was
full; then lifting it onto one knee, she' would take a step up,
change it over to the other; she would then take another, and thus
toil to the surface. But if a number were ready to ﬁll their jars
at the same time, one would descend, and then a second would
go half-way down and stand above her. A jar would be handed
to the one at the bottom, who would ﬁll it, and pass it to the one
above her, who would hand it to one on the outside. When all
were ﬁlled, the two would come up, and each one selecting her
own vessel, lift it to her head, and return to her home. These
jars would hold from four to ﬁve gallons.

It was astonishing with what ease even little girls would lift
these jars to their heads and walk off, looking around and chat-
ting as if it were merely play.

I was told that this was the only fountain in the village. It

 

