MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT. 33

resented in the clay. These were written all over, except the
hoops. There were also slabs of clay about the size and shape
of a common slate, covered with inscriptions.

I could have spent days, instead of hours, looking over these
archaeological records of the long ago. I have much more to say
concerning the things seen, if I can ﬁnd the time.

BRITISH MUSEUM. — (CONTINUED.)

A very interesting ﬁgure is that of an Assyrian winged man-
headed lion of great size. It once stood at the door of the palace
of the king of Assyria. There was also a winged man-headed bull
of the same dimensions, taken from the same ruins.

Among other things is a column perhaps twenty feet high and
three feet in diameter, carved all over with hieroglyphics,_brought
from Egypt. It records the name and tells the deeds of Rameses II,
B. C. 1330.

In the same vicinity is a sarcophagus of wood, another of stone,
and another of metal, the one of stone being of immense size,
and all in a ﬁne state of preservation.

There is a life-size statue of wood, representing an unknown
king, taken from the tomb of the kings at Thebes, B. C. 1350.
The arms, nose, and much of the face are gone, but the feet and
legs are perfect, and are as natural and shapely as can be. I
noticed a good-sized knot in the wood, that showed plainly on one
hip. It is wonderful that wood should endure for over three
thousand years, but here it is, and the inscription veriﬁes the
fact.

Among other curiosities from the palaces of Nimrod are a lot
of diminutive bells, an old reap-hook very much the shape of the
reap-hooks of our day, and a strainer with a handle to it. So in
the mighty hunter’s day, they had their little call-bells, and the
good housewife employed a strainer, if not as artistic, yet as use-
ful as ours. .

There were innumerable little burnt-clay tablets not longer
than one’s ﬁnger, containing prayers, hymns, and even texts.
These came from Babylon and Nineveh. No doubt but the cap-
tive Israelites planted these seeds from God’s Word, and these
verses from their songs among those that held them in bondage.

 

