MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT. 77

of the columns of which are yet standing. Originally, there were
seventeen on each side and eight on the ends. Those standing
were ﬂuted. At the base they were six feet two inches in diameter.
The area of the building inclosed by these columns was 227 feet
by 110 feet. The main room held the statue of Minerva, forty
feet in height, made of ivory and gold. The frieze round the tem-
ple was 554 feet, on which were chiseled ﬁgures in white marble,
representing scenes in the history of Greece, where Minerva was
supposed to have helped them.

To the southwest from the main building is the Temple of Ap-
teros, or “ Wingless Victory,”—the meaning was, that the victory
of the Athenians was to be perpetual. Being Wingless, it could
not ﬂy from them. In this temple, Athene, who was the
goddess of Athens, was worshiped as the Goddess of Victory.
This temple is in quite a good state of preservation, owing, I
think, to the fact, incidentally related to us by the guide, that
while the Acropolis was in possession of the Turks in later years,
they made a powder-magazine of the Temple of Minerva. A well--:
directed shell from the enemy exploded the magazine, and
wrecked the main building. This little temple was detached
from the main building, hence did not receive the shock of this
explosion. This, however, is a mere conjecture of mine, on view-
ing the situation.

On this hill, Greece seems to have lavished both her wealth and
her skill. The Parthenon, that crowned it, must have been the
grandest building either in ancient or in modern times. Enough
has been left, taken with the descriptions given by those who saw
it in its perfection, to form a very correct idea of its form and its
beauty. It was erected by Pericles, 444—436 B. 0., and cost twenty-
ﬁve million dollars, in our money. The architects were Callicrates
and Ictinus; the sculptors, Pheidias and his pupils. The building
was 227 by 110 feet. The Doric columns were six feet two inches
in diameter at the base and thirty-four feet in height. When we
remember the history that marks this building, we wonder that
there is a trace of the original structure left. Standing on the
top of this high hill, where it has, as we are told, been shaken by
earthquakes, rent by lightning, torn by explosions, robbed by the
unscrupulous, changed by superstitious Christians into a church,
by fanatical Moslems into a mosque, exposed to the burning heat

