74 MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT.

able objects in the Museum was from Egypt. It was the ﬁgure
of a kneeling woman kneading bread in a tray, made of one piece
of wood. This was made three thousand years before Christ, and
was in a perfect state of preservation. The pose was most life-
like. I think it was made of a piece of sycamore.

In the afternoon we visited the Acropolis. It is on the summit
of a very high hill, and evidently was once in the very heart of
Athens. The ruins on and about this bill are wonderful in their
extent and interest. On one side is the Temple of Bacchus,
called by the Athenians Dionysos. In one end are great slabs of
White marble, on which, in has-relief, is Bacchus, with his beastly
face, surrounded by clusters of grapes, dancing ﬁgures of nymphs,
and other symbols of drunkenness and revelry. It is said that
here was the beginning of the theater. The country people came
in to bring their offering to Bacchus, who, as they thought, had
blessed their vines, and simple plays were gotten Up for their
entertainment. Ranged around the platform are circular seats of
marble, rising one above another. It is Wonderful how well pre—
served these seats are. They Would do to use now. In no coun-
try of the world is marble so perfect and so plentiful as here and
in Italy. And in no country are statues so abundant as here.
They are in, around, and often upon, every church and public
building, in all the hotels, and in very many private houses. In
all the buried cities, they have been dug up by scores. And even
in the graveyards of the present day, statues abound.

Hard-by the Temple of Bacchus, on the same side of the
Acropolis, is the Temple of Esculapius. Here were the rooms
for the sick and disabled, who came to him for healing. An im-
mense drain led from these rooms to the Ilissus River, not far off,
showing that this ﬁrst great doctor of the Greeks used much water
in his practice. And some of the cures reported of him evinced
a strong element of faith, showing that our Christian scientists
and faith healers were anticipated by this celebrated Greek physi-
cian, who ﬂourished and plied his art long before Christ, and who
was deiﬁed for his skill and humbuggery.

The Acropolis towers above the city of Athens, and is crowned
by the ruins of splendid temples and other public ediﬁces. I feel
thatI am totally inadequate to describe even the ruins of this
renowned hill. Take, for instance, the Temple of Minerva, some

