128 MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT.

to be a devout, consistent Christian. Miss Redford, who has
charge of our party, has had him with her several times, and says
he is a gentleman in every sense of the word, and thoroughly
trustworthy. But his traits will be developed as we proceed with
these notes.

When our horses were brought up, he selected such as he
thought would suit each one. When the ladies came to mount,
a muleteer stood at the head of the horse, while “ Solie,” as his
ﬁrst name is pronounced, took the lady up in his hand as if she
were a little child, and set her on the horse. I stood by and
watched the operation. There did not seem to be the least effort
on his part. One lady was not seated to her notion in the saddle,
when he lifted her off, holding her up as if she were a. babe,
arranged her skirts and set her back on the horse without placing
her on the ground. One of the ladies weighs over two hundred
pounds. He lifted her to the saddle with seemingly as little ef-
fort as he had lifted any of the others.

Our ﬁrst ride was to the Protestant College, under the presi-
dency of Dr. Daniel Bliss. For forty-six years he has been strug-
gling with this school, and has made it a power in this land.
The day we visited the school they were just organizing, as this
was the second day of the term. They had 415 the ﬁrst day,
and expected to have fully 600 before the term closed. They
have pupils from all parts of Syria, some from Greece, and many
from Egypt. Many Mohammedans attend the school. The
Bible and its teachings are made prominent. All the pupils are
required to attend daily prayers, and services on Sundays.

I met several graduates of the institution, on the steamers.
They had all learned to speak English,land spoke in the highest
terms of their alma mater.

We found Dr. Bliss a white-haired veteran, sweet of spirit,
polite and courteous, and in great favor with both teachers and
pupils.

There are quite a number of stone buildings already erected,
and others in process of erection. It is like “planting a hand-
ful of corn upon the mountain,” and we trust it may yet “wave
like Lebanon.”

We rode some ﬁve or six miles to try our horses, and they be-
haved very well, except one, which kicked one of the Arabs over,
who was trotting along behind him, urging him to a better gait.

