154 MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT.

stand on Gerizim to pronounce the blessing, and six on Ebal,
just opposite, to pronounce the curses. No better place could
have been selected. There is room for a great company between
the mountains, and the conformation of the mountains is such
that they form a natural sounding-board to throw the voice down.

In looking over those selected to pronounce the blessing, I ﬁnd
that four of Leah’s and both of Rachel’s children were selected,
while the two remaining children of Leah and the two of her
maid Bilhah and the two of Rachel’s maid Zilpah were chosen to
pronounce the curses.

J ACOB’S WELL.

I was somewhat disappointed in Jacob’s well. It has been
ﬁxed over, until Jacob himself would not know it, and while they
look after the top, and the candles that burn about it, they have
suffered rubbish to accumulate in the bottom, and choke out all
the water. Sychar is not far off, on the side of the hill. It was
the crowd, moved by the earnestness of the woman to whom he
had disclosed himself as the Messiah, coming down the hill to
which Jesus refers when he said to his disciples, “Lift up your
eyes, and look on the ﬁelds; for they are white already to the
harvest.”

This day ended our long horseback-ride from Baalbek, in the
far north, by way of Damascus, to Jerusalem. We had passed
through Phoenicia, portions of Syria, the inheritance of Asher, of
Naphtali, of that portion of Dan in the north, of Zebulun, of Issa-
char, of the half-tribe of Manasseh, of Ephraim, of Benjamin,
and of Judah. We had ridden over mountains and plains, along
trails that one would think it impossible for a man or a woman
to ride at all, much less in safety. But these gentle Syrian horses
have grown up among such paths, and they were as sure of foot
as goats. I never saw one scare or shy during the whole trip, and
their endurance was marvelous. We saw what we could never
have seen had we traveled by public conveyance. We saw how
the people lived, and how they worked, and how they traveled,
and, take it all in all, it gave us an idea of the country that never
could have been obtained in any other way.

