 

MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT. 137

still “called Straight,” and were shown the house of Judas, to
which Ananias was sent with instructions to enlighten him with
reference to Jesus, who appeared to him in the way.

Our guide took us to what is called the “house of Ananias.”
We were taken underground to a chapel or church ﬁtted up with
altar, candles, etc., and the very place where Ananias baptized
Paul was pointed out to us. But the trouble lay in the fact that
Paul did not go to the house of Ananias to be baptized, but the
reverse. But when the Catholic Church ﬁxes a place, it is ﬁxed.
Scripture and propriety have nothing to do with the matter.

The street called Straight is roofed in, and is a very busy
street. Little shops and stores abound on each side, and there
is a living stream of men, women, and children ﬂowing through
it, interspersed with loaded donkeys and camels every few steps.
The camels and donkeys have the right of way, and everybody
has to dodge and dart around to keep from being run over or
scraped off the street. While in this street, I saw a funeral pro-
cession. A number of men, one bearing an immense banner,
came in from a side street, uttering the most doleful wail. The
corpse was laid upon a bier Without a cofﬁn, and borne upon the
heads of two men. The whole passed like an apparition, and was
gone. The event made not a ripple on the restless, surging sea
of humanity. .

On one of the streets were a great number of workshops.
Some were blacksmithshops, with a small ﬁre of charcoal between
some rocks, and a little anvil. The smith was perched on a littl-x.
stool, from which he worked his bellows and hammered his iron.
But the most amusing thing was to see the carpenters turning.
They would pass the string of a long bow round the piece to be
turned. With the right hand they gave it a rotary motion, while
they held the chisel in the left hand and toes. They seemed to
be as skillful with one foot as with the other. All the time the
turner sat on a very small stool, reaching right and left for either
his tools or his wood.

We were shown the wall down which it is said Paul was let
when he escaped from Damascus. But great changes have taken
place, both as to the city and the walls thereof. For ages no one
was particularly interested as to where Paul made his escape.
The fact of that escape was recorded, and that was all that any-

