14 MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT.

Shasta sent his melting snows, by underground passages, down
until they reached the bluff above the river, when they leaped out
in clear, gushing springs that would almost slake'the thirst by
looking at them.

_ When we reached Shasta Springs, a bra‘keman announced,
“Four minutes at the spring.” The hundreds of passengers
rushed out, many with cups in hand, and such crowding and dip-
ping and drinking one does n’t often see. The water is ice-cold,
and so heavily surcharged with carbonic-acid gas, that it ﬂies,
sparkling, into the .face, and bites the tongue with the most
pleasureable sensation. My! but it was refreshing and delight-
ful. I felt that it would have been far more satisfactory to have
stayed at the spring four hours instead of four minutes. Then
one could have prolonged the pleasure of drinking, instead of
gulping down a whole pint, as some of us did, at a draft. For
several minutes after returning to the car my stomach imitated
the Spring in sending up volumes of gas.

But old Shasta—the pride and glory of California—who can
describe? He does not seem to lift his head over fourteen thou-
sand feet, but in massive grandeur he stands sovereign of the vast
range of the Sierra Nevadas, that stretch in towering splendor
for a thousand miles, like an empire, at his feet. He needs no
scepter, no crown, to proclaim him monarch of the range. He
was born a king, and there is none to dispute his claim to the
royal line. On his broad bosom have beat the battle-storms of a
thousand years and left no scar, neither have they shaken one
pillar of his throne. So massive is his form, that the tempest’s
battle-shock on one side is not felt on the other. The very artil-
lery of heaven, that works such havoc on lesser things, may hurl
their heaviest shots, unfelt, on his bosom or his brow. Winter
may pile the snows of a thousand storms on his head, and they
will lie as lightly as a veil on the brow of a bride. Clouds, riding
on the wings of wind, may stride his giant sides, but he will stand
like a rock in the sea, and when the clouds clear away he looks
as calm and placid as a sleeping giant.

One forms the grandest conception of the creative power of God
when standing, like a speck, under the shadow of such a moun-
tain. Mountains play an important part in both the Old and
the New Testament history. They were God’s favorite meeting-
places with men.

 

