MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT. 95

privilege of seeing and kissing her children. J aon brought them
out to her. She then besought him to give up the idea of marry-
ing Glauce, and still remain true to her. She appealed to him
by the memory of her former devotion and sacriﬁce for him.
She called to his mind that she had assisted him in securing the
golden ﬂeece, and to prevent her father from following them she
had killed and cut to pieces her own brother. But he was deaf
to her entreaties, and married Glance. Then she sent Glauce a
ﬁnely wrought bridal robe, but poisoned it. When the bride put
it on, the pain of the poison became so intolerable, that she went
'to the great fountain of Corinth, and throwing herself in, was
drowned. From thenceforth it was known as the fountain of
Glauce. The citizens of Corinth murdered the two children of
Medea, and they were buried near the fountain. Two pine trees
stand over their graves. Dr. Richardson has been so successful
in following the directions of Pausanias, that he says his next
search shall be for these graves.

This fountain, Pausanias tells us, reaches back into mytho-
logical times. The legend we have given is related by Euripides,
who quoted it from the writings of Homer.

Dr. Richardson expected to ﬁnd some rare and beautiful works
of art in the form of statues, etc., but has been disappointed so
far, although he has uncovered but a very small part of the great
city, but he thinks he has exhumed the most important buildings.
When we remember that this proud city was ﬁrst shaken down
by an earthquake, then despoiled of its treasures of building and
art by ruthless hands, that built and adorned other cities with
the spoil of this one, and that for ages the winds and rains have
been wrapping its earthly winding-sheet about it, it is no wonder
that its chambers are bare and its beauty destroyed.

But we were more interested with Paul’s connection with this
city than in its present ruins, or even its former architectural
grandeur. He was here when its streets were busy with commerce,
and the houses were full of people; when her idols were honored
and her temples echoed to the tread of multiplied thousands of
worshipers; when the knowledge of the true God was only treasured
in the obscure synagogues of the Jews; when death was a terror,
and the grave looked upon as an impassable gulf between the living
and the dead; when funerals cast a pall upon heart as well as bier;

