MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT. 111

marble pillar, which, he said, had holy water in it when it was a
Christian church, but when it was converted into a mosque, the
water dried up. When it becomes a Christian church, it will have
water in it again. And he had each one of us to thrust our ﬁnger
in the hole, to see how cold it was, as evidence of the truth of his
statement.

Two of the pillars of this mosque were originally taken from
the ruins of Baalbek to Rome, and then from Rome brought to
this church. Two of them came from Jerusalem. It is wonderful
how many of these massive pillars have been transported over
land and sea, as the result of war changed the fortunes of empires
and nations.

Hanging up upon the wall of this mosque is a prayer-carpet
1,320 years old, said to have been used by Mohammed the First.
I estimated it as ten by twenty feet in dimensions. It may not
have been quite so large.

In the end of the mosque toward Mecca are two wax candles,
said tobe solid wax, eighteen feet in height, and eighteen inches
in diameter at the base. They are lit once a year, in the month
Ramazan.

Hanging on the wall is a holy stone, said' to have been brought
from Mecca. It is several feet square, and highly DOliShed. Clean
handkerchiefs are carefully rubbed over the surface of this stone
and then crumpled up in the hand, held ﬁrmly, and taken to the
sick, and a touch is said to heal them. So we see that all the
superstition is not conﬁned to the Christian church.

When we took a trip up the Golden Horn, we passed a Turkish
cemetery where tens of thousands are buried, some of them in
vaults like rooms. In one of these, a celebrated howling dervish
is buried. The vault has a window, facing on the street, grated
with wire gauze with meshes half an inch in size.’ The whole
surface of this window, from top to bottom, is literally frazzled
with tiny bits of rags, and threads of garments tied there by those
aﬁlicted with fever, plague, or whatever ailment they may have;
the poor, deluded creatures hoping thus to be cured of their ills
and inﬁrmities. These shreds are torn from their own garments,
and tied here, in faith of healing from the dead body of this
sainted dervish.

