16 'MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT.

sunlight hung upon its summit and dallied with its brow. Long
after it had left the vale and mountains below to shadows and
darkness, old Rainier stood out in the gloom like a vast pile of
phosphorus, as if it would light the world when the sun had gone
' down. All the ten minutes we were at Tacoma we gazed upon
'its glowing form, and when our train bore us away, plunging
into the night, this mighty mountain still stood, in ghostly gran-
deur, glowing against the evening sky. It is 14,526 feet high.

Sunday found us in Idaho, but as that state is very narrow
where we cross it, it was not long until we were in Montana.

All day Sunday and all day Monday we spent in crossing this
great state. Our car was full, but it was not a great while until
the majority of us knew each other, and we enjoyed ourselves all
the more for it.

We had no service in the car, although there were a number of
Epworth Leaguers on the train. I suggested it to one or two,
.and they thought it a good idea. But I would not press the
matter, for fear they would think I was anxious to preach. It is
true, there was another preacher on board, but he was a young
man just out of college. By the way, he was at Yosemite last
Sunday, and told me that he put in a full day sightseeing,—
-even climbed to the top of Yosemite Falls. How men do borrow
from God to save time! No doubt but that we are tested by just
such trials as this; and how easy it is for us to persuade ourselves
that in communing with nature we are serving God, when God
knows we are doing it alone to gratify our own carnal desires.

It is a mighty nice thing to be an every-day, consistent Chris-
tian. I have talked with two men on the train about their re-
ligious life, and both of them were stumbling over the inconsis-
tent lives of professing Christians. I tried to show them that they
were responsible for their own conduct, and not for the faults of
«others.

I put in some of the Sabbath in reading the entire Epistle to
the Romans, and in meditating over its wonderful revelations and
arguments. To my mind, it is the greatest of all of Paul’s writings,
if not the greatest single book in the Bible. He lays deep and
broad his foundations, and then lays up every stone with care
.and' precision, and when the Whole is done, he hangs up, within
its halls, the pictures of many of his friends, suffering Tirtius, his
.a’manuensis, to put on the last embellishing touch.

 

 

 

