MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT. 47

in a nest of grape leaves. We asked the price, and were told
“one franc ”‘ (twenty cents in our currency). We were astonished
at the cheapness, and took the lot. There were ﬁve in our com-
pany, and we took one apiece, divided two, and gave Sister Pepper
the whole one. If we had n’t eaten so heartily of other things,
I think we would have ordered another lot. When we came to
settle our bill, we found they were one franc apiece instead of
one franc for the lot. We joked Sister Pepper for having eaten
forty cents’ worth of peaches after a hearty supper, and wondered
what she would dream about.

The next morning we woke among the Alps, and on looking
out, the ﬁrst thing I saw was a beautiful lake lying like molten
silver among the mountains. The scenery was grand. Great
rugged mountains towered on each side of the road, while our
train glided along a narrow valley that lay on each side of a
fretted stream, hastening from its home in the heights to quieter
scenes in the lands below. I was struck with the great number
of chestnut trees loaded with burrs, that made me think of my
boyhood days, when I used to rise early to pick up the chestnuts
that might have fallen during the night, and to get ahead of the
hogs, that were as fond of them as I. I would not take time to
put on my shoes, and in my eagerness would often step on a burr.
I actually felt the sensation of having a half—hundred prickles in
the bottom of my foot.

It seemed that every available foot of ground was under culti-
vation, and little patches could be seen away up the mountain
side, where these poor peasants were coaxing the soil to give
them a living. I was struck with the appearance of poverty on
all sides. How the people in the mountains ever make a living
is a mystery to me.

In the evening I caught my ﬁrst sight of the Mediterranean,
at Genoa, where Christopher Columbus was” born. It is quite a
place, and the large number of ships seen in the bay gave signs
of life and prosperity.

We passed Pisa at night, and did not catch sight of the cele-
brated “leaning tower.”

At Turin I was struck with the beauty of the place, but espe-
cially with the elegant residences, that stand high up the hill-
sides. It must be something of a task to climb to these homes.

