MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT. 119

Two children, perhaps eighteen months old, were brought in,
and when they saw the sheik, they screamed as if they would go
into ﬁts. One was taken out, but the other was held toward the
sheik, who looked into its eyes, as if to charm it,-but whenever
he approached it, it would throw its head upon the man’s shoulder
and scream.

After seeing what I did subsequently, I wondered if the old fool
had not also walked on them, and they wanted no more of it.
My readers may think I have used the term “fool” unadvisedly.
In a few minutes after this, four little children from six to eight
years of age came in, and three of them lay down on the ﬂoor, and
the old sheik deliberately stepped with all his weight on their pros-
trate bodies and walked across them. I could see the face of one
of them, and it had an expression of perfect terror in it. I could
but feel sad and sick at heart, and say, “ How long, 0 Lord, shall
this gross darkness rest upon this benighted land?”

After nearly an hour, the line of howlers became quiet. The
big negro, who, I was told, is a colonel in the Turkish army, sat
down to rest, but not to cease to sweat. He pulled out an im-
mense handkerchief and mopped away with it, but he might as
well have tried to wipe a spring dry. He had gotten up such a
great head of steam, that it took some time to cool his boiler.

The next day we went to see the whirling dervishes. We did
not see the beginning of their exercises. They were in a large
circular room, and some nineteen were up, whirling like tops.
They lifted their arms in a most graceful manner, and whirled
the whole body around as steadily as if they were on a pivot.
They wore very full white skirts, that came below the knees.
When whirling, these skirts stood out at an angle of perhaps
forty-ﬁve degrees or more. All were barefooted, and as the
whole nineteen were whirling noiselessly at the same time, it
made a very pretty sight. When the whirl was over, each one
went to the sheik and kissed his hand. Then each passed the
other and kissed him on the cheek, and passed out, and the show

was over.
THE SULTAN.

On Friday, which is the Mohammedan Sunday, we went to see
the Sultan of all the Turks go to his mosque to say his prayers.

