 

MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT. 179

'With them, the Koran is all they want. They have the same
spirit that actuated Omar, who burned the Alexandrian Library,
———one of the greatest collections of books that, up to that time,
the world had ever seen. He said, “If this library is in accord—
ance ‘with the teaChings of the Koran, there is no need for it; if
contrary—to the Koran, then it ought to be destroyed.” The ﬁres
were kindled, and for seven days. the holocaust went on. Under
the hands of these ignorant fanatics, the choicest recorded litera-
ture of the ages went up in smoke. Nor did they pause in their
ﬁendish work until the last of this world-renowned collection was
destroyed, and from that day the Koran has lain upon the nation,
crushing out all that makes a people great, prosperous, and happy.
For nearly one month have I been traveling through this vast
empire, reaching from Constantinople, through Syria, Palestine,
and Egypt, and I have seen nothing to admire in them as a
people. A

HELIOPOLIS.

While in Cairo, we drove out to the site of Heliopolis, or On of
the Scriptures. The most ancient obelisk of Egypt alone marks
the spot where once stood populous On, the capital of Egypt.
This obelisk was chiseled of one stone, 2433 B. C. It is a mag-
niﬁcent monolith, every ﬁgure on its four sides remaining as dis-
tinct as if just cut.

Here the Pharaoh who had his twofold dream of the seven
years of plenty and seven years of famine had his palace and his
home. It was the daughter of the priest, or prince, of On that
was given to J osep'h when Pharaoh made him ruler over all
Egypt. Here, in after years, Moses, as the son of Pharaoh’s
daughter, was educated, and ﬁtted to be the teacher of God’s
people. ' ‘

It was once the seat of learning. Plato spent thirteen years
here, increasing his fund of knowledge and wisdom. Here, Hero-
dotus, the “Father of History,” lived for a number of years,
gathering material for his great work.

While God communicates that to man which he cannot know
of himself, yet he uses all that is in man for his purpose. It is
said of Moses, “that he was learned in all the wisdom of the
Egyptians.” He had been brought up among the rulers and the

