MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT. 87

Henceforth, Mars’ Hill, though naked, and bare, and washed,
and changed, will be a new place to me.

From the Acr0polis we could see the island of Salamis, girt by
the sea, on whose waters one of the most celebrated battles of
Grecian history was fought,—the battle of Salamis.

Xerxes with his millions had invaded Greece, and seemed ready
to overrun and with his sheer numbers crush this little nation
that ﬁlled the world with its learning.

We afterwards pass through the waters on which the six hun-
dred ships of the great Persian were overpowered by the three
hundred of the Greeks. We had pointed out to us the point of
land overlooking the whole, where the great leader of the largest
army the world has ever seen sat and saw his hopes go down in
remediless ruin, his proud ships wrecked and burned, and his
army utterly demoralized.

Near Mars’ Hill is another noted place. It is the rocky forum
or platform on which Demosthenes stood and delivered one of
his most celebrated orations. We visited this memorable place,
and Brother Pepper, inspired by the memories of this mighty
orator of the past, stood, and in rotund accents repeated part of
that other great oration,—

“ You ’d scarce expect one of my age
To speak in public on the stage.‘

If I should chance to fall below
Demosthenes or Cicero,” etc.

He did not even neglect to speak with pebbles in his mouth,
Miss Anna Scales furnishing him with the latter, that he might
be a real Demosthenes.

Not a great way from this point is a prison hewn in the solid
rock, in which, we are told, Socrates drank the deadly hemlock.
In the largest chamber is a circular opening at the top, to let in
the light.

But as everything round about this renowned bill has been
changed, not only by its changing fortunes, both in a political
and religiOus aspect, even the'elements have slowly but surely
changed .the physical features of the hill. Almost every vestige
of what man had placed upon it, and the very earth that once
clothed it in beauty, have been swept away, leaving but a bare,
grinning skeleton of rocks. Thus we can no more form a correct

