 

 

——-*

MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT. 149

earth or stone for building purposes right among their houses,
and some of these places may have answered Luke’s description.
Of course, the house of Mary and the carpenter-shop of Joseph
are shown, covered with the inevitable church. Down under the
church is a broken column, and we were gravely told that Mary
was sitting on this column when the angel Gabriel appeared to
her. The very crack through which Gabriel squeezed his way
into her presence is shown. I became so thoroughly disgusted .

I with all this fummery and nonsense, that I could hardly suppress

my disgust. It was enough for me to know that here in this
mountain town, that perhaps hardly has a feature of its original
appearance remaining, our Lord had lived the greater portion of
his life while on earth. Him I love, him I worship, but not a
single spot he ever visited, merely because of that visit. I know I
am not wanting in reverence or veneration, but it is mine to wor—
ship the Creator, more than the creature. But from my heart I
do wish that the scenes of Christ’s earthly connection'had been
left as he and nature left them. .

There is a fountain in the heart of the village, called “The
Virgin’s Fountain,” that supplies the whole place with water.
A stream, perhaps half or three quarters of an inch in diameter,
ﬂows out of the rocky side of the fountain. I made two visits to
this fountain, and at no time were there fewer than twenty or
thirty women and children with their jars and pitchers, holding
them under the stream to be ﬁlled. Such jabbering and push-
ing one hardly sees in a lifetime. I was told that day and night
this scene is enacting here. I saw what appeared to be a sixteen-
year-old girl ﬁll two large jars. She set one on the curbing, lifted
the other to her head, and then taking the one on the cIIrb in
her arms, moved off with an ease that was astoniShing. Some-
times mothers would come with their babes, and placing the jar on
their head, would set the babe astride of their shoulders, move off,
balancing the jar and leaving the baby to hold on as best he could.

After supper our party gathered in the dining-tent, and I
preached to them from that ﬁrst sermon of Jesus at Nazareth.

NAIN.

We passed the village of Nain,—a very inferior village, with
a fountain of brackish water near it. Mount Tabor came into.
view. It is one of the most symetrically formed mountains of

