My TRIP TO THE ORIENT. 59

have known, even wood and stone. And among these nations
shalt thou ﬁnd no ease, neither shall the sole of thy foot have
rest: but the Lord shall give thee there a trembling heart, and fail-
ing of eyes, and sorrow of mind. And thy life shall hang in doubt
before thee; and thou shalt fear day and night, and shalt have
none assurance of thy life: In the morning thou shalt say, Would
God it were even! and at even thou shalt say, Would God it were
morning! for the fear of thine heart wherewith thou shalt fear,
and for the sight of thine eyes which thou shalt see.”

How literally was this fulﬁlled as these merciless task-masters
drove them to death.

The quarry from which much of the stones were taken in build-
ing the Colosseum was six miles away. They formed a line of
Jews the full length, and made them pass the stones from one to
the other along the line.

Their oppressors cared nothing for their lives, but like dumb
beasts they were driven to their tasks, and when one fell, another
was put in his place.

We know of no building in the world that equals this in its
capacity. It could seat an audience of one hundred thousand
people. The walls are of immense height, and were formerly
crowned with an entablature adorned with pilasters and windows.
The most beautiful columns stood at short intervals on the top of
the walls. We saw some of the fragments of these columns, that
showed they were wrought in the highest style of the art. The
arena where the exhibitions took place, and that attracted the
thousands of spectators of every class, from the Emperor down,
was 278 feet long and 177 feet wide. It was in full view from
every seat. A place was reserved for the Emperor, and always
opposite him sat the vestal virgins.

When we call up the scenes that were enacted within these
walls, the slaughter of men and animals, and remember that men
and women actually enjoyed their death-struggles, and instead
of being satiated and surfeited with them, they called for more,
and gloated over them, we ﬁnd a trait in human nature that is
appalling. . .

Human nature, unsanctiﬁed by the grace of God, is unadul-
terated meanness and cruelty. It was to purify and save this
ruined humanity that Christ came. And ere the babe had seen

