MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT. 145

enough to scald one, and is exceedingly salt and bitter. I found
it wholly unpalatable.

MOUNT OF BE ATITUDES.

Not far from Tiberias we were shown the ruins of the village
of Magdala, the home of Mary Magdalene. Near the Sea of
Galilee is pointed out the Mount of Beatitudes, where, it is said,
the Sermon on the Mount was preached. I do not know whether
this be the place or not, but I thought, as I sat and looked upon
the place, that I could reconcile a seeming difference between the
account given by Matthew and the one by Luke. Matthew says:
“And seeing the multitudes, he went up into a mountain: and
when he was set, his disciples came unto him: and he opened his
mouth, and taught them, saying”; while Luke says: “And he
came down with them, and stood in the plain.” There is a
beautiful plain at the foot of a mountain, that slopes up the side.
It would be the most natural thing in the world for Jesus to as-
cend a few steps up the mountain side, while the crowd stood in
the plain below him. Matthew, referring specially to the posi-
tion of Christ, would place him on the mountain; Luke, thinking
more of the multitudes, would locate them with their teacher on
the plain.

On this same plain another scene was enacted that set at de-
ﬁance the teachings of this Prince of peace. He taught men to
love their enemies, to do violence to no man; he forewarned men
that they that take up the sword must perish with the sword.
Angels sang at his birth, “Peace on earth, and good will to men.”

But here on this very plain, where he delivered the most won-
derful sermon the world ever heard, the Crusaders marshaled in
his name, and proclaiming they were ﬁghting for his cause, met
the Moslem hosts under Saladin, and after a most fearful con-
ﬂict, when the blood of Christian and inﬁdel mingled in one in-
discriminate stream, the cross went down under the crescent, and
to this good hour the Mohammedan holds sway over all this fair
land. The very lives of Christians are in the hands of these igno-
rant, bigoted hordes, that lord it over all the land.

