48 MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT.

And if their owners have business in the city below them, it
must take much of their time going to and from their places of
business,— at least, it gives them plenty of exercise.

All along through France and Italy, I saw women working in
the ﬁelds,—in fact, doing whatever labor men do. They have a
hard lot. Brother Pepper'tells me that in some places they work
as section- hands on the railroads.

One fact I noticed all the way through the Continent, whether
in the fertile valleys or among the mountains: they have the best
country roads I ever saw. They are as smooth as the streets of
a city. I saw a number of yokes of oxen hitched to wagons.
The tongue of the wagon, instead of ending at the yoke, as with
us, is turned up in a curve three or four feet high,-——for what
purpose I could not divine.

ROME.

We reached Rome about 7:30, A. M., September 11th. Every
one here calls it Ro-ma, dividing the word into two syllables.
We were conducted to Hotel de Angleterre, where we met Miss
Elizabeth Redford, daughter of the late Rev. A. H. Redford, once
agent of our publishing house in Nashville, Tennessee, who has
charge of our party. This will make her fourth trip to the
Orient. She has had charge of other parties, is very enthu-
siastic, and thoroughly understands the business. From all that
I have seen, we have a most agreeable party, consisting of Miss
Elizabeth Redford, Mr. and Mrs. J. R. Pepper, Miss Mary Pep-
pe'r, and Master Sam Pepper, of Memphis, Tennessee; Mrs. E. E.
Bates, of Kansas City, Missouri; Miss Anna H. Scales, of Nash-
ville, Tennessee; Miss Celeste Harrison, of Mississippi; Miss Sue
Luck, of Tennessee; Miss Goldie A. Rice, and Miss Cottie M.
Rice, of Louisville, Kentucky; Miss Bessie Clark, of Jackson,
Mississippi; Mr. William Magness, of McMinnville, Tennessee;
and Mr. Edgar Magness, of Attalla, Alabama. Our interpreter
and conductor was Mr. A. P. Albina, a native of Jerusalem; but
while in Italy we had an Italian guide. I had not been with the
party an hour until I felt perfectly at home among them,—— though
a “stranger, they took me in,” with a cordiality and kindness

that was refreshing.

 

 

 

 

