90 MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT.

The best-preserved temple in Greece is the Temple of Theseus,
built 460 B. C. It is near where Paul saw the altar “ To the Un-
known God.” Here the victors were given an olive branch and
a vase of oil from the sacred olive tree. This tree was guarded
with reverence. The penalty of death was awarded any one who
should cut the smallest branch from it. This tree was sacred to
Minerva. Near this temple was the double gate. In entering
the city, one had to pass this double gate. No doubt Paul passed
through this gate, and looked upon. the tombs near it, some of
them dating back to 600 B. C. The ﬁgures in has-relief on these
old tombs were very ﬁne and well preserved. One covered the
graves of Pomphela and sister, who were of high birth, and once
had the honor of weaving the robe of Minerva. These robes were
renewed once in ﬁve years. It took more than a year to make
one. When the day came to place it on the image, it was taken
in great pomp to the entrance of the temple. There it was placed
in the hands of a man, a boy, and a woman, who entered the
temple and placed it on the ﬁgure.

The Tower of the Winds was particularly interesting to me, be-
cause of its scientiﬁc nature. It is comparatively a small build-
ing. Octagonal in shape, facing the cardinal and semi—cardinal
points of the compass, every facade is adorned with a ﬁgure, in
has-relief, representing a wind. These ﬁgures are in a ﬁne state
of preservation. The top of the building was surmounted by a
brass Triton, which revolved, and showed the direction of the
wind by a wand held in his hand. In the center of the tower
was a clepsydra, or water-clock. It was fed from a fountain on
the Acropolis, and lines are chiseled on the stone to show the
time. This tower was built 35 B. C.

We visited the palace of King George of Greece. The building
is plain, but substantial, and very chaste in its ornamentation.

We were taken through the three great ball-rooms, the main
one with ﬁve immense chandeliers. As they were covered, we
could not see the workmanship. We were conducted ﬁrst into
the Queen’s reception-rooms. All the furniture was upholstered
in light-colored silk. We were shown the stand in which bread
and salt is placed for the guests, according to a Russian custom.
The Queen is a Russian.

We next visited the King’s reception-room. This was up-

 

