60 MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT.

the light of a single day, the announcement was made, “Peace
on earth, and good will to men.”

But to return to the building. It would seem that human in-
genuity could not have devised a more stable structure of its size
than this. And yet here it is, in ruins. The secret is, that its
walls have been torn down, and its ornamental columns have
been removed with which to build other houses. Palaces and
churches have been constructed out of the material taken from
this mighty building. In it was the blood of the martyrs of
Jesus, and this blood, like the blood of Abel, seems to have cried
from the ground. And God and man have been against it.
More than once it has been shaken and rent by earthquakes.
And barbarians and Christians have each, in turn, taken a hand
in destroying it, until one of the p0pes set up a number of shrines
in it, and thus made it a sacred spot.

At least one third of the building is gone, while of the thousands
of marble columns with which it was adorned, not a single entire
one is left.

TRIUMPHAL ARCHES.

Near the Colosseum is the Arch of Constantine. It stands di-
rectly over the Appian Way, and is in a ﬁne state of preserva-
tion.

But what interested me most was the Arch of Titus, erected on
the Via Sacra, or “sacred way,” to celebrate his victory over
Jerusalem, in that most memorable of sieges. While other mem-
bers of our party were talking of this or that, calling attention to
the grand views from this point, I was lost in contemplation of
the ﬁgures in bas-relief chiseled on its walls, especially the ﬁgure
of the golden candlestick taken from the Temple at Jerusalem.
We are told that this is the only representation of this candle-
stick in the world. All others are but copies of this one. Titus
brought it with him as one of the'trophies of his victory. What
ever became of it no one knows; One of the legends concerning
it is, that it was thrown into the Tiber to save it from the hands
of the invader. Beyond this arch the Via Sacra leads through
the Basilica of Julian up to the Temple of Jupiter. For ages
these historic buildings have been covered with an accumulation
of earth and detritus to the depth of from twenty to thirty feet.

 

 

 

