MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT. 167

SOLOMON’S POOLS.

Solomon’s Pools, three in number, and of great size, were shown
us. They are now without water, but a little energy and labor
would put them in condition to hold water. But the people who
now occupy and have control of this country seem to have no
enterprise whatever, and they hinder or prevent those who
would do something.

The ﬁelds of Bethlehem are well ﬁtted for the grazing of ﬂocks
and herds. Somewhere near the city, the angels appeared to the
shepherds as they watched their ﬂocks by night.

No one can tell the house in which Jesus was born; and even
if it ever were known, everything is so changed now by the
churches built here and there, that Mary herself could not recog-
nize it.

Our interpreter, who lives in Jerusalem, invited all our party
to dine at his home. His mother, and other children of the family,
could not speak a word of English, and not one of us could speak
a word of Arabic, so we had to depend upon her son to interpret
for us. We got a good dinner, and spent a very pleasant evening.

Many have thought that a railroad running into Jerusalem
will take it from its ancient setting, and make a - modern city of
it; that it will be no longer the Jerusalem of the long ago, to
which pilgrimages from all over the world are made. I do not
share this feeling. I have seen enough of discomfort, ignorance,
.and squalor in the streets and houses of this old city, to welcome
anything that will make a change for the better. What are ‘old
things, 'when they stand in the way progress or the happiness of
the people? ‘

This road from Joppa has done one thing not commonly done
by rail. It is carrying fresh water in car-loads into the city.

The supply of water for Jerusalem is poorer and more limited
than that in any city I ever saw. The supply is totally inade-
quate to the wants of the people. A lady missionary told one of
the members of our party that they would buy one jar of water
a day, and that they had to husband every dr0p of it.

Many of the children of the lower classes look as if they had
hardly ever had their faces washed. Hardly a child is to be seen
among them that has not some affection of the eyes. The lashes

