108 MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT.

on the ear. For several minutes the air is resonant with the
melody of this call. Then the faithful repair to the nearest
fountain,—- many of these fountains stand near the mosques, for
the use of the worshipers,-—where they wash their faces, their
feet, and their hands, and then go in to pray. I had formed the
idea that the great majority of the Mohammendans heeded this
call to prayers, and, no matter how busy, would dr0p all and re-
spond to the demand of Allah for devotion. But the call makes
scarcely a ripple on the surface of the surging, seething crowds of
busy men in the streets.

We ﬁrst visited the Mosque of St. Sophia. Before we entered,
large and small slippers were furnished us, according to the size
of our feet, to be put on over our shoes, that no unhallowed
leather of a “Christian dog” might touch the ﬂoor of this holy
building. As there was no leather at the heel, and no strings to
hold them to the foot, our party found great difﬁculty in keeping
them on, and we went sliding our feet along the loose matting on
the ﬂoor, in the most amusing way. More than once mine slipped
off, and I stepped with unhallowed feet on the sacred ﬂoor. The
main dome rests upon four great pillars, some twenty-four feet in
diameter. This dome is supplemented by four half-domes, that
rise to a lesser height, giving a most pleasing effect to the whole
interior of the building. There are no seats in a mosque, but the
worshipers either stand or kneel on the thick matting with which
the stone ﬂoor is spread.

While going through the mosque we saw several who, our guide
told us, were learning the Koran. The learner and teacher were
both seated on the ﬂoor, repeating in a loud sing-song voice sen-
tence after sentence.

This is one of the most noted mosques in the empire, and it has
passed through many vicissitudes of fortune, and its ﬂoor has run
red with the blood of thousands of unfortunate human beings.

Our guide told us that at one time, when many thousands of
Christian bodies lay piled up upon the ﬂoor, that Mohammed II
rode in on their dead bodies, with sword in hand, and, striking
one of the stone pillars with his sword, leaving a great gash in the
stone, that was shown us, said, “The massacre must stop.” He
dashed his bloody hand against the stone wall, and left its print
full size on the rock. He also showed us a hole in the side of a

 

