124 MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT.

facture of glass, and the other of cotton goods. With streams of
,clear, good water all around her, they drank of the rain-water
collected from the roofs of their houses, in cisterns, for centuries,
until French capital put in an aqueduct and brought in an un-
limited supply of fresh water, only a few years ago. With electric
power at their door, and petroleum to be had for a song, the
rooms of their best hotels are lighted with candles alone. The
Sultan can spend tens of thousands on a parade at his weekly
prayers, but never a dollar to improve the highways of his d0-
minion, or add to the comfort of his pe0ple. Living in splendor
himself, with a family of two thousand wives, and with all the
nations of Europe propping up his throne, why need he care for
the welfare of his subjects?

We visited the great cistern underlying the Stamboul side of
the city, called the “ Cistern of a Thousand and One Columns.”
Our guide had a man wrap a large piece of sacking saturated
with coal-oil round an iron rod, and, lighting this, we went down
a series of stone steps, and by its light viewed a small section of
the vast cavern. Long rows of stone columns stretched away
into the darkness. A few feet of water stood above the slush and
earth that ﬁlled the bottom to a depth of twenty-ﬁve or thirty feet.
Parts of this vast cistern were cleared out years ago, and some
silk-weavers established their looms; but some one reported to
the Sultan that these poor, miserable people were making bombs, '
and they were driven out,“ and that part of the cistern was closed.

The week we spent in Constantinople was crowded with inter-
est, and at the same time my heart was often made sad at what
I saw and heard. There is enough of truth, and even righteous-
ness, in the Mohammedan religion to make it more difﬁcult to
displace it with the spiritual worship of God through Jesus Christ,
than if they had no religion at all. Then the type of Christianity
by which they are surrounded, with its altars, its. images, its
candles, and its venerated relics and cruciﬁxes, its indulgences
and its penances, put in contrast with their faith in one God and
one prophet, makes it harder still.

SMYRNA.—GRAVE .OF POLYCARP.

The second day after leaving Constantinople, we reached
Smyrna, where our ship lay for several hours, putting off and

 

