120 MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT.

The mosque is near his palace, and the event is one of great im-
portance. Eight thousand or ten thousand soldiers turn out in
their best uniforms. The street leading from the golden gate of
the palace to the mosque is sprinkled with clean sand just before
the hour for prayer. It is sprinkled its entire width, taking
many cart-loads of sand, and just before the carriage passes
over it, men are employed sweeping it smooth with brooms.

We went to our point of observation more than an hour before-
hand. Leaving our carriages at a good place from which to see
the Sultan when he passed down the street, we walked up in front
of the golden gate. Everything that could be done to make this
gate beautiful has been done. An hour before twelve,—the hour
of prayer, —the foreign ambassadors, legates, and consuls began to
arrive, also all the generals of the Turkish army,—in fact, all the
dignitaries of the empire who were in Constantinople were pres-
ent. Innumerable ofﬁcers in bright uniforms were passing and
repassing for more than an hour. Then company after company,
and regiment after regiment, came with bands and banners, until
the air was full of music, and all a-ﬂutter with banners and pen-
nants, and every street was crowded with soldiers, some on foot
and some on horseback. There was one regiment of lancers on
horseback, each soldier bearing a long lance, from which ﬂoated
a red Turkish pennant, triangular in shape, bearing the crescent
and star in white. About the palace, regiment after regiment
was massed, all in the most beautiful uniforms. In due time all
who did not belong on the street— we were of that number—were
ordered off. We went to our carriages, occupying a commanding
view of that portion of the street down which the Sultan’s carriage
was to pass. One of our party had a kodak. A secret policeman
came and had it put out of sight. No one is allowed to point
even a cane or umbrella during the procession. Three minutes
before twelve, a man appeared in the minaret, ready at the exact
moment to call the faithful to prayers. At last the palace gate
swung open. The man in the minaret gave a long, weird call in
a sing-song tone, that reached the ear of every one, and out came
a richly adorned carriage, bearing, we were told, the Sultan’s
mother, and some other members of the royal family. These
were permitted to drive up to the door of the mosque, but not to
enter. As soon as the carriage reached the door, the horses were

