‘MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT. 69

feet by 175 feet. The water is of the most delicate light blue I
ever beheld. You feel as if you were in an enchanted cave.
There is a sort of weird, uncanny appearance about the whole
thing, that strikes you with awe. The peculiar color of the water,
as reﬂected to the ceiling and in the faces of your companions, is
remarkable.

I tried to divine the cause of this strange color given to the
water, and my theory is, that it is caused by refraction. The
.0pening to the grotto above the water is too small to admit enough
light to illuminate the cave, and the water being deep and clear,
the light comes up, as it were, from below, and the rays, being
deﬂected, or bent, give to it its peculiar color. A copper coin
was thrown into the water, and a boy dived after it. His body,
as he went down, had a strange silvery appearance. We could
see him distinctly more than ten feet under water. He caught
the copper, and brought it in triumph to the surface.

Our return trip across the bay was one long to be remembered.
Vesuvius stood before us in all his grandeur. Not a cloud ﬂecked
the sky. But great volumes of smoke rose out of the crater of
the volcano and rolled in white billows away to the south, while
Naples and the surburban villages laylike a coral reef along the
circling shore at its base. I stood on the deck of the vessel for
more than an hour and watched the smoke as it boiled out of the
mountain and drifted away.

Of all the cities we have visited, Naples reveals to us the most
beggars. From little children, to the old and decrepit, they
stretch out their hands and beg. One little rascal, not more than
six years old, with doleful look shook an armless sleeve to reveal
his misfortune and claim our pity. But when we took hold of
- him, found the lost arm inside his shirt. He only laughed at our
discovery, and continued to beg. Boys would trot along beside
our carriages and turn handspring after handspring, and rush up
with conﬁdence for the reward of their agility._ Twelve-year-old
girls would run for half a mile by us, begging for a centime (the
ﬁfth of a cent). We could enter no church or public place with-
out having hands thrust under our noses, with an appeal for
money. . _ ‘

We left Naples on the west for Brindisi on the east side of the
peninsula of Italy. It was an all-day run, though it was less

