158 MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT.

We walked leisurely over the grounds. I was busy with my
own thoughts, and paying but little heed to the stories of marvels
and wonders as told by my Arab guide. God was in my heart.
I had accepted Jesus Christ, his Son, as my Saviour. He had
' given his Holy Spirit as an assurance of the correctness of my
faith, and as my Comforter. And what more could I desire?

I had been to Gerizim, where the Samaritans worshiped. I
was now on Mount Moriah, in Jerusalem, and the words of Jesus
to the woman of Samaria came sweetly to me: “Woman, believe
me, the hour cometh, when ye shall neither in this mountain,
[Gerizim], nor yet at Jerusalem, worship the Father. . . . But
the hour cometh, and now is, when the true worshipers shall
worship the Father in spirit and in truth: for the Father seeketh
such to worship him. God is a Spirit: and they that worship
him must worship him in spirit and in truth.”

The Temple with all its wealth and splendor, with altar and
ark, had gone down in common ruin. The goodly stones of this
great house had been thrown down, and not one left upon another.
But God is. His throne is in the heavens, and Jesus Christ, his
Son, and our Advocate, is before that throne, not with the blood
of bulls and of goats, but with his own blood, making atonement
for our sins, and not for ours only, but for the sins of the whole
world. Then, this place is but a memory,—a shadow of good
things that have come.

SOLOMON’S STABLES.

After we had seen all' that was to be seen above-ground, we
were led underground into what is called Solomon’s stables. Im-
mense chambers reaching for hundreds of yards, hewn out of the
solid rock, with pillars left standing, and arches sprung between
them, engaged our attention. It looked as if we should never
come to the end of these chambers. For many generations the
existence of these underground chambers was unknown. The
people of Jerusalem walked over them, and were not aware of
them. ' .

We are told in the Scriptures that “Solomon had forty thou-
' sand stalls of horses for his chariots, and twelve thousand char-
iots.” .Where did he, where could he, keep all these horses?
Here, under the city, the mystery is solved, and the question

