96 MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT.

when corruption and vice were at a premium, and debauchery ran
riot. Then it was that this stranger of another nation, without a
herald to declare his coming, and without prestige, arrived alone
with the religion of our Lord Jesus Christ,—the religion that
taught the folly of all their worship, breaking with a single stroke
both their idols and their temples,-— threw himself into the sur-
ging tide, not to sweep on with it, but to arrest it, to cleanse it of
its impurity and corruption. ,

All the wisdom, all the learning, and all the wealth of that
great city had been lavished upon their temple and their worship,
and now all this was to give way under the “foolishness of
preaching.” While before him was a cruciﬁed, mangled man, be-
neath him was a despoiled grave, a ruined empire,—the empire
of darkness,—-above him was the Opening heavens, and the Lord
God of heaven and earth spake in tones of love, declaring himself
as their God and Father, their Redeemer, and their Friend, their
Comforter and Guide; for to those who accepted him he was
“wisdom and righteousness, and sanctiﬁcation and redemption.”

He Spoke, but his “ speech and preaching was not with enticing
- words of man’s wisdom, but in demonstration of the Spirit and
of power.” He touched on all the points, even of their private
life, overthrowing all corruption and uncleanness, and setting up
in their stead purity, fellowship, and love. He took hold of the
tenderest ties of the human heart and entwined them about the
cross of Christ, ennobling and beautifying them. He tenderly
laid his hand in the hand of the sorrow-stricken and bereaved,
led them out to the graves of their loved ones, and told them of
the resurrection, until their sorrow was turned into joy, and they
went away to comfort others with the same blessed words.

There was not a phase of human life, in time or eternity, upon
which he did not turn the glorious light of the gospel, which was
“the power of God, and the wisdom of God.” But this was not
to be effected in a day. The momentum of sin, corruption, and
idolatry was too great to be arrested at once. Night and day,
and from house to house, the work went on for a year and six
months, until Corinth shone as one of the fairest jewels in the
crown of the Redeemer.

I could not but call up these scenes in the life of Paul as I
walked where he had trod, and looked upon the wrecks of buildings
that he had seen in their glory.

 

