40 MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT.

could not but call up the memory of this chosen vessel of our
Lord Jesus Christ, and prayed that the Saviour that guided and
guarded him might ever be my guide and guard. The chapel is
plain, neat, and substantial. The gallery around three sides of
the room is borne up by seven massive pillars of high-polished,
variegated French marble of reddish color. At the base of each
of these pillars is a plate on which is inscribed the section of the
church that it represents. One is for the Methodist Episcopal
Church North, one the Methodist Episcopal Church South, one
the Irish Church, one the Canadian Church, one the Australian .
Church, one the South African Church, and one the East Indian
Church. Around the entire gallery, only a foot or two apart, is
represented a serpent forming a circle by bringing its head and
tail together, and in this circle a white dove with an olive leaf in
its mouth, emblematic of the “wisdom of the serpent and the
harmlessness of the dove.” There are beautiful stained-glass win-
dows just back of the pulpit, and on each side of it tablets and
inscriptions abound. In the yard, just back of the church, is the
grave of John Wesley, and by his side rests the body of Method-
ism’s greatest commentator, Dr. Adam Clarke.

I doubt if 'Methodism has ever produced so learned a man as
Adam Clarke. His tomb is a modest one. The inscription upon
it is nearly effaced. Mr. Wesley’s monument is a more recent-
one, and is in a ﬁne state of preservation.

The Conference Opened with a sermon by our own Bishop
Galloway. The editor of the Methodist Recorder said of it, that
it was worth all that the Conference had cost. It was plain and
practical, and was delivered with the grace and ease of manner
for which he as a speaker is remarkable. I thought he was some-
what hampered by being in the little round pulpit, elevated
nearly on a level with the gallery. All the members of the Con-
ference partook of the Sacrament of the Lord’s Supper. At the
afternoon session the roll was called, disclosing the fact that the
great majority of the Conference was present on this ﬁrst day of
its session.

The programme was all arranged by the Business Committee,
and every man knew his place and his duty.

At both the morning and "afternoon sessions, an ‘essay is read,
and two other men, selected by the Business Committee, give a

 

 

