MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT. 51

its altars, and garnish its statues and its walls. Popes, whose
hands have been in the pockets of all the multiplied millions of
their people round the globe, have vied with one another in
making this church the wonder of the world. The great of the
earth, as wellas the common people of every land, have made
pilgrimages to this Mecca of Catholicism, worshiped at its altars,
and left of their best within its walls. Human ingenuity has
done all in its power and skill in placing this wealth of treasure
so as to impress the beholder and awe the faithful. Arched
aisles stretch away in every direction, on whose marble ﬂoors
men move about as specks, or stand like particles of dust in the
balance. Statues the most colossal, and yet the most perfect in
form and grouping, stand along these aisles, or occupy niches
here and there throughout the building. But the dome, who can
describe! Though so great in size, so high, yet its proportions
are so perfect, it leaves nothing to be desired. From where it
springs above the massive arches that support it on every side to
the apex, there are pictures in fresco that are almost above criti-
cism. They blend and charm like a landscape.

Our guide secured to us the privilege of climbing to the top of
this dome. Circling round and round like a great corkscrew, the
steps lifted us higher and higher, until we were dizzy with the
constant turning and the great elevation.

On and up we climbed, until some of our party began to pause
by the way. So narrow was the spiral chamber through which
we circled, that two men could scarcely pass each other, and yet
upward we climbed, as if we should never reach the goal. But all
things earthly must have a limit, and the spiral stairway that
winds up the dome of St. Peter’s must end somewhere this side
the sky. The last of the 698 steps was taken—were we in the
ball? Not yet. Any more climbing to do? Yes; there set an
iron ladder perpendicularly, through the neck that supports
the ball. Once more, as Bunyan says, “I addressed myself to the
j ourney.” Narrower and more narrow became the passage, until
I had to press against the ladder with my breast to squeeze
through, and at last I stood within the ball, which I found to be
some eight or ten feet in diameter, without ventilation. It was
not necessary to stay long, so I was soon on my way down.

Meeting Brother Pepper, who weighs perhaps seventy-ﬁve or

