MY TRIP TO I‘HE ORIENT. 161

crying for help. And one generation is taught by another that
here they are to ﬁnd relief.

SUBTERRANEAN QUARRIES.

We went all through the subterranean quarries that lie beneath
the city. From these quarries much of the stone used in the
building of the city was taken. And these great caverns are
silent monuments of the wisdom, skill, and energy of this pe0ple
in their palmy days.

We visited the Church of the Holy Sepulcher, as it is called.
Here we were shown the place of the cruciﬁxion, the sepulcher,
etc. I_ took no interest whatever in any of these places; for, in
the ﬁrst place, if they were the places where Christ was cruciﬁed,
and where he was buried, the whole thing has been so marred,
that nothing is left but churches, altars, and other insignia of
superstition. The sepulcher as shown is no more like the sepul-
cher described by the Evangelists, than night is like day. In the
next place, these things are located inside the city, whereas
Christ was cruciﬁed “outside the gate.” I was as much inter-
ested in the stories told me .by my guide as in these. He said,
when the cross was let down into its place it struck the skull
of Adam, and then he showed me that skull inclosed in brass,
and had me put my hand upon it. We went a little farther, and
he showed me a niche in the wall, near an altar. It was covered
with a wire gauze, and had a red stain near the bottom, on the
inside. He said when the soldier pierced the side of the Saviour,
and when the blood ﬂowed down and struck Adam, that he sprang
to life and rose from'the dead. He did n’t tell me how he was
getting along without his skull, that was incased in that brass box.

THE TRUE CALVARY AND SEPULCHER.

When General Gordon was here, he went outside the city, and
with his Bible in his hand, selected a hill that he claimed was
the true Calvary. I was told. nothing of this until we reached the
place. For some moments I said nothing. But. my thoughts
were busy. The shape of the hill answered the description. It
was north of the city, outside the gate, near the highway to

