MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT. 131

Baalbek, and that even then as I read a description of them, I
felt a desire to see them. But although within a few miles of
them, if my only chance to see them was by going on the Sabbath,
I would pass them by, and deny myself. Then was manifested
the nobility of Solie, that never lost any of its luster during the
entire trip. We were to start Monday morning by 6:30. He
said, “Doctor, you shall see the ruins; I will get up at four o’clock,
Monday morning, and go with you.” I told him I appreciated
his kindness, but that I would not hinder the rest of the party a.
moment for my pleasure. He said he would be back. in time.
Accordingly, he and I were in the saddle while the stars were
still shining, and by the time day was fully abroad I was amid
the grandest ruins I had yet seen. The Temple of Jupiter and
the Temple of the Sun were larger and more magniﬁcent than
anything of the kind, either in Europe or Asia. Very much had
been recently uncovered. In fact, the archaeologists are even
now at work. The Rev. William Jessup, a missionary, son of
Dr. J essup, who has been on this ﬁeld as a missionary for forty
years, in visiting me Sunday afternoon told me that there was an
immense keystone that could not be lifted without the aid of
jacks; that the manager had borrowed some from the railroad
company, who could spare them only on Sunday. He had a
number of men working for him, and the only man who refused
to work on the Lord’s day was a native Syrian. He went to
church. But to return to my visit to the ruins. We were the
ﬁrst on the ground. We startled an owl from his home among
the great carved stones that rested on the few remaining pillars
of the Temple of Jupiter, bringing to mind the prediction of the
prophet with reference to the temples of the idols being given up
to the owls and the bats, these creatures of the night. Here was
- a temple, that in its perfection and glory exceeded any building
of the kind that the world had ever produced, enough of it being
left after the sweep of centuries to strike the beholder with awe
and admiration. Great pillars of the purest and best marble,
some sixty feet high and six feet in diameter, made in the highest
style of the art, crowned with capitals of exquisite workmanship;
others, some six in number, seventy feet high and seven feet
in diameter. From the plan of the building as revealed by the
spade of the archaeologist, there were originally ﬁfty columns of

