MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT. ' 29

Nelms of Texas, and Brothers Johnson and Thomas of Arkansas.
I They joined our company. As we passed Spurgeon’s Tabernacle
we stepped in to see it. It has two galleries all round the church,
one above the other. The pulpit is on a level with the lower
gallery.

They read and sung the Episcopal service at Dr. Myer’s church,
although it is a Congregational church. He gave us a most ex- '
cellent sermon, remarkable for its simplicity and earnestness.
He insisted on genuine conversion, or change of heart.

After a half-hour’s rest we went to a three-o’clock service at
:St. Paul’s. As we approached the Cathedral the bells were chim-
:ing most musically, and they kept it up for twenty minutes. By
the hour for service, that mighty building was full. The seats
are rude rush-bottom chairs of the plainest sort, fastened together
in long rows. .While the vast body of the congregation was
English, I saw Hindoos, Chinese, and negroes. The service was
very elaborate, the ritual alone consuming an hour. They had
a choir composed mainly of boys dressed in white robes with
black velvet collars. There were some men and some women in
the choir. I had no means of estimating the number, but there
were more than a hundred, and the organ was superior to
any one I ever heard. Sometimes the heavier bass notes sounded
like thunder, and fairly made the building tremble. The echo,
or rather echoes, of the building are marvelous. Every note is
repeated from all parts of the building. Every arch seems to
ﬂing back its own echo, and when the preacher raised his voice,
which he often did, the echoes were almost confusing. Canon
H. S. Holland was the preacher on this occasion. While he evi-
dently had his manuscript before him, he but seldom looked at
it. He preached with great unction and power, and so powerful
was his voice that I have no doubt every one in that vast audience
heard him distinctly. -

He was preaching on faith, taking for his text the withering of
the barren ﬁg tree. He showed what evils could be removed by
faith, and, among other things, spoke of the Boer war, greatly
deprecated it, and said it ought to be stopped. I was hardly
prepared for such an expression of sentiment in such high places.
Dr. Myer in the morning prayed for the removal of this terrible
war. I ﬁnd the British here at home are greatly divided on this
question.

