MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT. 15

IN MONTANA .

I formed a number of very pleasant acquaintances on the train.
Some of them gave me a cordial invitation to visit them should
I ever come to Portland. It is better to have friends than it is to
have money. I called on some during the six hours I had to lay
over in Portland. Beside the delights of association, they gave
me a good dinner and replenished my basket with fruits and other
things.

I was perfectly delighted with the cars and the service of the
Northern Paciﬁc railway. The tourist-car was almost like a
Pullman, except the seats are covered with nice leather instead of
plush. The beds were about as good, and everything was done
up in style.

This route, striking east from Spokane, in Washington, sweeps
through Idaho, Montana, North Dakota, and Minnesota to St. Paul.
It passes over a vast area of desert land,—land that seems unﬁt
for anything, much of it mountainous, rocky, and barren. But
it is wonderful what water will do for the desert.

There are two counties in Washington, of which Pasco is the
center, that, a few years ago, were covered with sage-brush. But
enterprising men planned, an irrigation system, and brought in
water that had been running to waste for years, and now I am
told that these two counties produce one ﬁftieth of the wheat
grown in the United States.

While I write this, in eastern Montana we are passing hundreds
of thousands of acres of such looking sage-brush land, and we are
running down a river with water enough in it to supply the greater
portion of it. Soon after turning east we passed in sight of
Mount Rainier. It loomed up in solitary grandeur as one of the
great ones of the earth. It was clothed in snow, seemingly, to its
base. The lower strata of air was so ﬁlled with smoke as to
obscure not only its base, but all the surrounding mountains; not
one could be seen. And yet, there it stood in solitary grandeur,
wrapped in its spotless robe of snow, as if chilled by its own
isolation. The setting sun was at our back, ﬂaming on its bleak
side, making it glow as with a warmth it could not feel. It bathed
it with light as with a garment. It softened its asperities, and
gave to it additional charms. It was wonderful how long the

