MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT. 39

Holy City. Our crowns shall be crowns of righteousness, that
shall never fade away.

ECUMENICAL CONFERENCE, LONDON.

The great Ecumenical Conference of Methodism met in Wesley’s
old church, City Roads Chapel, according to appointment, Sep-
tember 4, 1901. There was quite a full delegation the ﬁrst day.
They had come from all parts of the world. Every continent of
the globe and many islands of the sea were represented; verifying
the declaration of Mr. Wesley, “The world is my parish.” If he
himself did not visit all parts of his parish, his followers have,
bearing an open Bible, and proclaiming the grand and funda-
mental doctrines of our Lord Jesus Christ, -— free salvation to all,
justiﬁcation by faith, and the witness of the Spirit to each and
all. And here, on the very ground where he made the declara-
tion, were gathered nearly ﬁve hundred holy men, to bring news
from far and near of what God had wrought through the preach-
ing of the blessed doctrines which he had formulated, and given
as a glorious heritage to the race.

Everything about us reminded us of our great leader. A monu-
ment to his memory stands in the front yard of the church. On
the right is his house, where he studied, wrote, and prayed.
Many of his belongings have been preserved in this building.
But nothing impressed me more profoundly than his little prayer-
room,——should I not say closet ‘? for it was not much more than
eight feet square, with one little window opening to the light. As
I stood alone in this little room, I was even more profoundly im-
pressed and moved than when I stood in the chapel where he had
so often stood to proclaim the freeness and fullness of the gospel
of God’s grace. Here was the secret place of his power; here he
pleaded for his followers, and the world of mankind; here he
kindled into a hotter ﬂame that heavenly ﬁre with which he ﬁrst
felt his “heart strangely warmed”; here he held audience with
his Master, and sought for relief when the burdens of his own re-
sponsibilities were too great for him; here he took his cares and
troubles to one who cared for him, and here, by his example, he
taught his followers to pray.

I am not a worshiper of men nor of places, but while here I

 

