68 MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT.

Naples. As we stood upon a hill overlooking the Mediterranean,
we saw a little village lying at the mouth of a small stream. On
asking its name, were told that it was Puteoli, the place where
Paul ﬁrst set his foot on Italian soil, after his tempestuous voyage.

Luke tells us: “And we came the next day to Puteoli, where
we found brethren, and were desired to tarry with them seven
days; and so we went toward Rome.”

It is a very small place. I suppose no larger than when Paul
landed there. .

While in Naples we made an excursion by a little steamer to
the island of Capri, that lies in the mouth of the Bay of Naples.

The Bay of Naples is a perfect picture of beauty. The water
is remarkably clear, and the most beautiful blue, often shading
into emerald in the most wonderful manner. We ﬁrst steamed '
across to the old town of Sorrento, the birthplace of the poet
Tasso; then to Capri. This island was a favorite with Tiberius
Caesar. Here he built a palace on the brow of a high hill. ' Some
of the old walls and the ruinsof the palace are still there. On a
point jutting out into the sea is a fort, from which, it is said,
Tiberius at one time had a number of slaves thrown. The preci-
pice is several hundred feet high. It is also related, in connection
with this event, that he had men stationed at the foot of the cliff
with clubs, so that if any of the unfortunate slaves should survive
the fall, they might dispatch them.

We, in our day of enlightment, can hardly realize that a mon-
ster of such cruelty would be suffered to live.

A more beautiful spot than this island it is hard to ﬁnd. It is
covered with grape-vines and olive trees; and the most charming
views are to be had from a thousand points of observation.
“Every prospect pleases, and only man is vile.”

One object in our coming to this island was to visit the cele-
brated “Blue Grotto.” This grotto is entered by boats from the
sea. The opening is very small,—just large enough to admit of
a row-boat. We had to lie ﬂat down on the bottom of the boat
as we passed in. But when inside, as soon as our eyes could
accommodate themselves to the subdued light that came only by
the little oriﬁce through which‘we entered, and under the sea, we
found ourselves in a most beautiful grotto. The height of the in-
terior is forty-one feet, with nearly ﬁfty feet of water. It is 100

 

 

 

