MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT. 21

ﬂying-ﬁsh, and now and then a stormy petrel,——that was all.
But the passengers made it lively on board. We had several
very ﬁne musicians with us, and day and night the piano was
going. We had quartets, solos, and choruses, and much of the
singing and instrumental music was of a high order.

One night the captain had a nice cake baked,— placed in it a
ring, a thimble, and a penny,——-and we had, I suppose, a regular
“cake-walk.” As I never saw one before, I am not a judge of its
regularity. It was very funny, and afforded much amusement.

On Sunday everything took on a Sunday air. All sports and
games were avoided. At 10:30, the captain, as on the previous
Sabbath, read the Episcopal service, and the most respectful and
reverent attention was observed by all. In the evening I was se-
lected to preach. Drs. Giﬂin and Staﬁord assisted in the prelimi-
nary service. The young people led in the service of song. - One of
the young men, who was a very ﬁne musician, composed an an-
them on the Lord’s Prayer, especially for the occasion. It was
sung with spirit, and I thought it very beautiful. I have the
promise of a copy. ‘

The ship was rolling as much as at any time during the voyage,
and I maneuvered around considerably during the delivery of my
sermon. All understood why I staggered around so, and gave me
the most marked attention. I tried to drop some seed for my
Master, and did not preach merely to entertain the company or
pass away the time. I felt that I had a message, and I delivered
it in the name of my Lord.

I told them that the evening before they had gotten up their
entertainment just for enjoyment, but now we had met for a dif-
ferent purpose,——met to talk about our eternal interests. I think
the service was not without proﬁt. A number came to me after-
ward, not only to thank me for the sermon, but to tell me how
much good it had done them.

Monday night the young people got up a “breach of promise”
case, and organizing a court, they took up the whole evening in
trying it. The jury was composed of both men and women, and
the court and lawyers, in addressing, had to abandon the stereo-
typed form of “gentlemen of the jury,” and had to say “ladies
and gentlemen of the jury.” The verdict was for the plaintiﬁ,
giving her the sum of “three cents, annually, for ninety-nine
years, and one day over.”

