170 MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT.

Cairo is a much larger place than I expected to see, and it has
all the spring and appearance of a modern city. The streets are
wide and clean, while electric cars are found on very many of
them. There are a great many ﬁne stores and residences, while
the great majority of the buildings are modern in their archi-
tecture.

From childhood I had read of Egypt, the Nile, the Pyramids,
and other wonders of this strange land, and I had ever longed
for a visit to it. And now, in the evening of my life, after num-
bering my threescore and fourteen, I had at last realized the
dream of my childhood, and stood amid its palms and listened
to the murmur of its world-renowned river. I could scarcely
realize the fact, but as I looked up the Nile and saw the shadowy
outlines of the Pyramids in the distance, I knew it' was not a
dream. .

Our ﬁrst visit was to Old Cairo, and the Citadel that crowns the
hill in the heart of the town. As we drove through the narrow,
crooked streets and witnessed the squalor on every hand, we could
appreciate what _a change had come over the place in the birth
of the new city. As we stood on the hill on which the Citadel is
built, we had a ﬁne view of the whole of Cairo, old and new. It
was a lovely sight. But the great number of mosques and mina-
rets that marked every quarter showed all was under the domin-
ion of the Moslem power, and that it would take generations to
break the spiritual power of this hoary superstition.

THE CITADEL.

As we stood at one point and looked over the walls some forty
feet in height, an incident was related to us that took place in
1806. Mehemet Ali, the founder of the present dynasty, was in
possession of the Citadel. He sent out an invitation to all the
Mameluke beys in the land to come to the Citadel. These
Mamelukes had ruled Egypt for a long time. They were rich
and they were powerful. On the day appointed, 480 came. They
were decorated in all the. insignia of their ofﬁce. Their horses,
of the best breed, were caparisoned with all the dazzling splendor
of Oriental tinsel and ornament. No such pageant had ever
before adorned the parade-grounds of the Citadel. When, all at

