36 MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT.

minded of the command given to Israel, “Thou shalt not remove
thy neighbor’s land-mark.” This stone could be removed, if a
dishonest neighbor saw proper to do so.

I have read of Nebuchadnezzar since I was a child, and some-
how the length of his name ever impressed my childish imagina-
tion with the thought that he was the greatest of Eastern'kings.
It was my privilege to see his door-step. It is of bronze, and
most beautifully carved and ornamented. It was used B. C. 604.

Some of the necklaces taken from the tombs at Nimrod re-
semble the wampum of the North American Indians. Others
were of beautiful stones of various colors and degrees of ﬁneness.

In the literary department I was permitted to see some of the
cOpies of the Bible done by hand and most elaborately ornamented.
The skill in the formation of the ornamental letters was marvel-
ous. Different colors of ink were used, and while there was great
variety, yet was there uniformity. It must have taken years to
complete the work.

Wyclif’s Bible and the Latin Vulgate attracted my attention
more than any other books in this wonderful collection. The
latter was written in 796—801.

I have mentioned only a few things that particularly arrested
my attention, which I thought would interest you. All round
the walls and everywhere are things curious and interesting.

I have not mentioned relics and curiosities from every land
under the sun.

I left the Museum, feeling that I was not half-satisﬁed, but I
could give it no more time. There were other buildings connected
with the Museum, but I did not have time or opportunity to visit
them.

When the Conference Opened I went nowhere else.

THE TOWER;

Before leaving California I received a nice letter from Rev.
H. Neate giving me some useful hints and directions. Among
other things he stressed a visit to the London Tower. So I em-
braced the ﬁrst Opportunity to see this historic building.

In company with Mr. Behrens, a German of New York, and
his daughter, Miss Sophia, the latter a born guide, who were fel-

 

