24 MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT.

or New York, I think its days would soon be numbered, either by
some process of law or some act of lawlessness.

The streets are narrow, as well as crooked; and how the busi-
ness of so great a city is conducted is a marvel. These streets
are wonderfully smooth. They seem to be made of a combination
of cement and asphaltum. ,

They have few street-cars, but instead have two-story buses—-
multiplied thousands of them. They drive up to the sidewalk,
and you enter, go into the inside, or by a winding stair climb to
the top, which will hold perhaps twenty or twenty-ﬁve persons.
You can form an idea of the smoothness of the streets when I tell
you that yesterday a very large and ﬂeshy lady, weighing much
more than two hundred, if I am a good judge of size and weight,
climbed up to the top, just ahead of me, and comfortably ﬁlled a
seat intended for two. From the top of the bus you have a ﬁne
point of observation,—can see all the houses, and the thousands
of vehicles that ﬁll the streets. All the buses, carriages, wagons,
etc., have to keep to the left, instead of the right, as with us.

I was under the shadow of the celebrated Bow Church, but did
not have time to go in it. I heard its chime of bells. It is said
that every child born within sound of its bells is a true Cockney.
They are born in London proper; none others.

Among the ﬁrst things I did was to report my arrival at City
Road Chapel, to John Bond, secretary. I was most cordially re-
ceived, and given all necessary information. While in that part
of the city, we stepped across the street and into the cemetery,
where lie the remains of Susannah Wesley, the mother of John
and Charles Wesley. I reverently took off my hat as I stood
above the dust of this woman, greater than if she were the mother
of kings and emperors; for it was her methodical hand and prac-
tical mind that trained the greatest reformer and leader in ecclesi-
astical history,—a man, the inﬂuence of whose teachings has ex-
posed errors in theology hoary with age, intrenched within what
was regarded as impenetrable walls and defended by the combined
' churches of the world,—a man, the inﬂuence of Whose teachings
has leavened all doctrines of Christendom. Not only this, but
she was the mother of a son who took the doctrines taught by
his illustrious brother and wove them into poetry and song, that
they might be ﬁxed in the minds and hearts of the masses for-
ever.

_.I.

 

