MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT. 27

Upon these, chiseled in marble, lie the life-size ﬁgures of a man
clad in mail and a woman by his side. In one place in the wall,
as high as a man’s head, lie the ﬁgure of a man clad. in full armor,
as a knight, with his sword byhis side, and by him the ﬁgure of
his wife. At their feet stands a small woman with clasped hands
before an open book. She has wide hoop-skirts, swelling out
laterally from the waist, with a frill all around the top of the skirt,
as if she were set in a bell-shaped tub. The inscription is in old
Latin. .'

One is “To the memory of John Bathurst Dean, M. A., First
Rector of the United Parishes of St. Martin, Ontwich, with
St. Helen, 1873 to 1887; born 1797, died 1887.”

As Dr. Giﬂin and I wandered around the streets we saw a
crowd gathered about an old church door, and, joining them, we
saw a bridal party coming out. The bride was dressed in cream—
colored satin, with a trail about two yards long, and a little boy
and girl, richly dressed, but with stockings barely peeping out of
their shoe-tops, exposing their bare legs, carrying this immense
trail. All the party had Jewish faces, and I was told that very
many Jews attach themselves to the Church of England.

On Holborn Street stands the only building built in the Eliza-
bethan period, and in the style of architecture of that time. It
stands on a very populous street, and looks almost ready to fall;
but the Londoners loath to see this last relic of the past taken
away. Old things are treasured, but old things must yield to the
inevitable.

Yesterday I visited St. Paul’s Cathedral, the grandest structure
in London. In all these letters I am trying to “ﬁght shy” of the
guide-books, and tell you of things as I see them; but for certain
facts it is necessary for me to refer to the book. We are told that
this is the third church erected on this site bearing this name.
The ﬁrst was built in 610. It was burned in 1087, lasting a
period of 477 years. Soon after its destruction it was rebuilt on
a grander scale. This second building lasted till the great ﬁre
in 1666, when it went down in the general wreck. For eight
years it lay in ruins. The corner-stone of the present building
was laid by the Masonic Fraternity, June 21, 1675. The mallet
and trowel used on that occasion are still preserved in one of the
lodges. Sir Christopher Wren was the architect of this building.

