MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT. . 175

gems, have had their sarcophagi, sealed for ages, broken open,
and bodies and ornaments rudely dragged to the light, taken
away from their long rest, to be exposed to the gaze of people
from every clime.

A strange feeling passed over me as I looked down into the
black and lifeless face of Rameses II, the Pharaoh who knew not
Joseph, and who oppressed Israel and made them serve with
rigor; who, to accomplish his mad purpose, “cast out their young
children, to the intent that they might not live.” It was his
daughter who rescued Moses and brought him up as her own son.
Doubtless he had often sat with the Hebrew child upon his knee,
and taught him the ways of the Egyptians. Here I stood above
his swathed and shriveled form, now powerless for harm. His
name is remembered as an oppressor, while the boy rescued from
death by his daughter had become one of the greatest, if not the
greatest man of any age or people.

Near Rameses II lay Seti, his father, and others of this illus-
trious house. Long ago the scepter departed from this family,
and not from this only, but, according to the prediction of Ezekiel,
not another one of their own people has reigned, or shall ever
reign in Egypt; “and there shall be no more a prince of the land
of Egypt.”

MEMPHIS.

We took a steam-launch and sailed up the Nile for some twenty-
ﬁve miles, when we took donkeys and rode out to the site of
Memphis, which, at one time, was one of the greatest cities of
Egypt. To say that it is now in ruins would hardly be correct,
for it is not, and as you ride amid the sand-dunes, unless told,
you would never know that you were where once throbbed the
arteries of a great city.

Our ride of perhaps twenty miles was my ﬁrst experience on a
donkey. Each donkey had an Arab attachment. He kept up
with his donkey, no matter what his speed. Each one had a
name. Mine was called “ McKinley,” and he proved himself a good
one, for. he outstripped all the rest, and got ﬁrst to our destina-
tion. I was surprised to see with what ease the Arab kept up
with him. All the while he kept up a running conversation. in
broken English, with me. The ﬁrst object of interest on the site

