MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT. 177

the Egyptians,—a people who were thrown in contact, through
the channels of commerce, with so many of the outside world,—
a people visited by the learned from all lands, —should worship
a bull from the common herd, especially when one and another
of these should die as the cattle that graze upon the plains about
them. But when any people turn from the true Light that
“ lighteth every man that cometh into the world,” they “became
vain in their imaginations, and their foolish heart was darkened,

. and changed the glory of the uncorruptible God into an im—
age made like to corruptible man, and to birds, and four-footed
beasts, and creeping things.”

It was in imitation of the Egyptians that the. Israelites made
a golden calf to worship while Moses was upon Mount Sinai.

In this same neighborhood are the tombs of Thi. These are
constructed very much after the order of those of Mena. The
walls of the several rooms were all covered with ﬁgures, illustra—
tive of the lives of those buried in them.

The surface of the country in which these tombs are found is
the most desolate and forbidding imaginable,-——-nothing but dry
sand drifted into dunes,——but 'wherever excavations had been
made, I was impressed with the great' amount of broken pottery
that strewed the sand in every direction, showing that this was
evidently the site of a great and populous city for ages. And it
is marvelous that such a city should be actually and completely
wiped from the face cf. the earth.

What little probability was there of its fulﬁllment when Eze-
kiel, hundreds of years before Christ, when this and other great
cities of‘ Egypt were'in their glory, ‘told of their utter‘overthrowl
Only one inspired of the Spirit of omnisciencewould have dared
to'make such a prediction. 'And yet this J ew-ish-captive in Chal- .
dea, by the river Chebar; uttered it Without a fear of its failure.

_ , .MOHAMMEDAN UNIVERSITY.

‘ On one of our visits to Old Cairo we went to the great Moham-
medan University, where were gathered twelve thousand students
from all parts 'of the Mohammedan world. * 'Until‘ within a: year
or two, nothing was.ta‘ught.in' this university but “the Koran.
-N ow avery little of’arithmetic and” geography is ' taugh't.- W hen

