MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT. ‘81

to all life, and breath, and all things; and hath made of one
blood all nations of men, for to dwell on all the face of the earth,
and hath determined the times before appointed, and the bounds
of their habitation; that they should seek the Lord, if haply they
might feel after him, and ﬁnd him, though he be not far from
every one of us: for in him we live, and move, and have our
being; as certain also of your own poets have said, For we are
also his offSpring. Forasmuch then as we are the offspring of
God, we ought not to think that the Godhead is like unto gold,
or silver, or stone graven by art and man’s device.”

Under this burning eloquence, all the glory of Athens faded;
the splendid image of Minerva, towering above all others, gleam-
ing in ivory and gold, with the votive offerings of kings, warriors,
and statesmen piled around it, with ﬂuted columns and fretted
frieze, white as the snows of Parnassus, above and around it, be-
came a stiff and senseless block, not worth as much as the soil
on which it, motionless, stood.

Paul, the stranger, who was only waiting for his friends, and
who had been led to this bill, that he might tell these worshipers
of idols the new and thrilling doctrine of life through Christ and
the resurrection, was now the central ﬁgure of that scene. All
earthly glory faded, all idols with their temples crumbled into
dust and ruins at his feet, while the cruciﬁed, the risen Jesus of
Nazareth, now the Sun of righteousness, the Lord of all, rose
in splendor on the broad horizon of the world’s hopes, thrilled all
hearts and lit with its splendors the gloomy chambers of the
dead. Athens, bathed in the tinted light of the setting sun, faded
from the vision, and the “great city, the holy Jerusalem, descend-
ing out of heaven from God, having the glory of God: . . . and
her light was like unto a stone most precious, even like a jasper
stone, clear as crystal.” And my heart exclaimed, “Amen.
Even so come, Lord Jesus.”

ATHENS. —- (CONTINUED.)

Very close to the Acropolis is Mars’ Hill, rendered immortal by
the wonderful sermon preached by Paul as he waited at Athens
for his friends and companions. It is now but a rough, bare
rock, denuded of all its soil, with not a vestige of a house left

