MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT. 31

the breath of his mouth. First in importance and chief in in-
terest came the Rosetta Stone. This stone was dug up from the
ruins of. an old fort near one of the mouths of the Nile-— the
Rosetta mouth—hence the name—in 1799. It was placed in
the British Museum, where I saw it in 1901. Pertions of it are
broken off, but enough remains to form the key with which to
unlock the Egyptian hieroglyphics. The stone is what is known
as basalt, just such stone as our paving-blocks are made of. The
lettering is very distinct, and is beautifully done. The man who
chiseled it was evidently a writer for the king, and was one of the
best. While the document is the same, yet the inscription is in
three distinct writings, the top being in Egyptian hieroglyphics,
the style of the priests; the second is in the domestic, or writing
.of the people; and the last is in Greek. From the proper names
and their position in the several inscriptions it was found that
the subject-matter in all three was the same. Not only so, but
these proper names unlocked the mystery and the meaning of the
hieroglyphics. Since then men learned in the art can read either
the hieroglyphics or the writing of the common people. I could
but feel a thrill of pleasurable excitement as I stood and gazed
upon this stone, that had lain in the British Museum for one hun-
dred years and in the sands of the Nile many hundreds of years,
and now linking the languages of the past with the present, sing-
ing the cradle-song of literature and with the same voice sounding
the highest notes of victory for the God of all.

“God, who at sundry times and in divers manners spake in
time past unto the fathers by the prophets,” is now conﬁrming
his declarations to us by unearthing these treasures of the dust.
Thousands of discoveries have been made, and while hundreds of
them have conﬁrmed the truth of Scriptures, not one iota has
been against them. It was worth my trip to London to see this
wonderful stone. In another part of the building I saw a cast of
the Moabite Stone. The original is in France. This stone was
found in the land of Moab in 1868. It was made about 890 years
before Christ, and records the victory of the Moabites over Ahab,
king of Israel.

The trouble I ﬁnd in writing of this Museum is, that there is
so much, that I hardly know what to select; but I was impressed
with the vast number of inscriptions on cylinders, tablets, bricks,

 

