116 ' MY TRIP To THE ORIENT.

that it was feebly done. This incident did not make a ripple on
the surface of the scene, so far as the dervishes were concerned.
In fact, had he died it would have been looked upon as rendering
the thing more sacred, and this man a saint. One of the nine,
who had long, snaky hair, either accidentally or on purpose
shook off .his- cap, then, as he would jerk his head forward, the
tangled mass of hair would fall all over his face; then the next
jerk would send it over his shoulders. He presented a most
repulsive sight. After a time he retired without ceremony. But
, on the others went, until one of them, who stood in front of a
post, struck his head against it, and in the next moment he reeled
and fell on his face with a yell that was startling.- Two men took
hold of him, and he struggled like a madman, yelling “Allah”
at the top of his voice. His face had the most demoniacal ex-
pression I ever saw. It was positively frightful. I thought his
mind had given way under the awful strain, and that he was a
raving maniac. They held him for a while, when he began to
make a noise like a dying bullock. Neither did this incident
cause the least interruption in the ceremony. This fellow also
calmed down, and after a while took his place in line, and again
joined in the howl.

In the mean time the old sheik was working with some de-
canters of water, and some handkerchiefs and children’s clothes
that had been sent in from the sick. He walked in front of the
line of howlers, and between the’six seated on the sheepskins, and
held up the water and clothes, and then returned to the altar.
Two of those that had been in line, and four others, came forward
and threw themselves on their faces as close together as they
could lie, in front of the sheik. He deliberately stepped upon
their prostrate bodies and walked from one to the other, on their
hips, then, turning while standing on the last man, walked back
on their shoulders. They then rose, reverently kissed his hand,
and two of them fell on their knees and kissed his feet. Then
six more came like the others and threw themselves on their
backs before the sheik. He walked on these as he did on the
others. One old fellow, whose head was quite gray, became ex-
cited, and after he had been walked upon, bumped his head
several times against the bare ﬂoor, hard enough, it seemed to
me, to addle his brains, if he had any.

 

