MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT. 159

answered. Here is room enough for all his horses, and they would
be entirely out of the way.

When Athaliah was dragged from the house of the Lord to be
executed, it is said, “And they laid hands on her; and she went
by the way by the which the horses came into the king’s house:
and there was she slain.” This passage shows that the horses
were kept near the king’s house, and also near the house of the
Lord.

MOUNT OF OLIVES.

' -From Olivet we obtained a very ﬁne view of the Temple site.
Olivet rises above Mount Moriah, and from its summit one can
look down upon the city, and were the Temple standing, could
see it in all its glory. No doubt I stood near the spot where
Jesus and his disciples sat when he told them of the destruction
of the city and of the Temple, and of the tribulation that was
coming. His great heart swelled with emotions of love and pity.
The tears streamed down his cheeks, when, as if losing sight of
those round about him, and all else, he sobbed out his sorrow in
the cry, “0 Jerusalem, Jerusalem, thou that killest the prOphets,
and stonest them which are sent unto thee, how often would I
have gathered thy children together, even as a hen gathereth her
chickens under her wings, and ye would not! Behold, your house
is left unto you desolate.”

Not many years after this, the storm broke upon that devoted
city, and since that wonderful hour their house has been desolate,
and the peOple he loved and would have saved scattered to the
ends of the earth, with no protection, no sheltering wing over
them.

WAILING—PLACE OF THE JEWS.

I went down to what is known as the “Wailing-place of the
Jews.” Here were scores of Jews, from lads of a few summers to
old men who had grown gray and stooped in waiting. Stretching
for a hundred yards or more was a part of the old wall of their
city. These stones were there in the days when their Temple
stood on Mount Moriah, when their altars smoked with their
sacriﬁces, and they were .the people of God, known and recognized
among all men. And now they were strangers in their own city,
and here they, and their fathers for generations, have assembled

