MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT. 49

Just as soon as we removed some of the dust and grime of travel,
and got our breakfast,—by the way, a breakfast in Rome. and
everywhere else in this country, consists merely of cold bread and
saltless butter, and whatever one wants to drink,—weltook car-
riages and went out sight-seeing. ,

Miss Redford understands that the object of our coming is to see;
and she planned accordingly. We were to see as much of Rome
as possible during our few days’ stay here. She had secured the
best guide to be had,—an Italian born and raised in Rome,
—a sculptor, whose father before him was of the same craft. He
is an enthusiast, and delights to show us the wonders of his native
city and to explain them to us. He is a perfect gentleman, a
Roman Catholic, and has access to many places denied to other
guides. He speaks English very well. His name is Del Seniors.

The ﬁrst object of interest shown us was the Column of Marcus
Aurelius, erected 161—180 A. D. It is covered all over with bas-
relief ﬁgures representing his victories over the Germans. It is
of great size, and towers to a height of 1371} feet. The whole is
crowned with a statue of St. Paul. H .

Perhaps this is as good a place as any other to say that when
the Church of Rome got into power the effort was made to destroy
everything that was pagan. Nothing was too beautiful, nothing
too valuable, nothing too sacred, to stand before their ruthless
superstitious fanaticism. Temples the most ancient, statues the
most beautiful, went down in ruin under their hands, until
some of the wiser popes, to save some of the ﬁnest works of art,
and the more renowned and beautiful buildings, consecrated
them by making shrines and churches of them. This wonderful .
column was preserved by placing the statue of St. Paul upon.it.
We next went to the Pantheon. This is considered the. most
splendid monument of antiquity. And splendid as it is, it was
robbed of very much of its wealth of ornament before the Church
- laid its hand upon it and consecrated it to Christ. It was built
by Agrippa, son-in-law to Augustus Caesar, 27 B. C. It is a per-
fect dome, and perhaps the largest dome in the world. Its di-
ameter is 132 feet, and it measures the same in height. You may
imagine what immense walls are necessary to support such a
dome. I had no means of measuring the thickness of these walls,
but they must be ten feet, or even more. -

