MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT. 171

once, the great iron doors were closed, and a heavy discharge of
musketry broke forth on all sides, and horse and rider went
down together in a bloody death. The treacherous Mehemet
Ali had ordered the indiscriminate slaughter of these helpless and
entrapped men. One daring, desperate young Mameluke turned
his horse’s head to the wall; over the parapet he leapt to the
ground, forty feet below. In the fall, his horse’s legs were broken,
but, strange to say, he was almost unhurt, and in the confusion
he made good his escape. On the parapet is chiseled a horseshoe
to mark the place where this desperate leap was made.

After Mehemet Ali’s death, his body was brought back and
buried in the Citadel, where so many illustrious men of his line
lay.

We visited the sepulchers of a number of the Mamelukes.

Not far from the Citadel is a mosque, built in 1346. It is built
with dome and half-domes, after the style of so many others. Its
minaret is the tallest in Cairo, being 290 feet high. Near it stands
a half-ﬁnished mosque, commenced some years ago by the grand-
mother of the present Khedive. In the midst of the work her
Moslem architect died,‘ and as she would suffer no “Christian
dog” to have anything to do with it, it stands, as it has done for
years, unﬁnished. .

THE NILE.

We crossed the Nile to see Nilometer, the instrument by which
the rise and fall of the Nile is measured. At certain seasons this
instrument is watched with the greatest solicitude. The highest
and lowest points of the Nile are marked by a difference of
twenty-ﬁve feet.

THE PYRAMIDS.

We took carriages and drove out seven miles from Cairo to the
great Pyramids. The road we took is one of the most lovely
drives we have enjoyed. It is thrown up several feet above the
ﬂooded ﬁelds on each side, and a row of trees is planted on each
side, that shades the whole way. This road is macadamized, and
kept as level and smooth as a ﬂoor. It is also sprinkled. All
the land on either side was under water, preparing for still
another cr0p* before the season is over. They ﬂood the land

 

