MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT. 71

They seem to have none but the choicest varieties, and thes: were
in great perfection. Most of their vines are trimmed low, as
ours. But certain varieties are trained on poles or trellises.

I have seen thousands of goat-skin bottles ﬁlled with wine.
These skins have the hair taken off with lime, and the skin is then
turned inside out, and is ready to ﬁll. We saw hundreds of carts
ﬁlled with these skins. At one station there were at least ﬁve
hundred empty casks strung along the side of the track. Men
would drive their carts up, take out a skin, and, putting the neck
to the bung-hole, let the wine run in. Every night, while in
Athens, we could hear the carts going by the hotel, at all hours
of the night. I suppose they haul them largely at night because
of the greater danger of heating and fermenting in the day.
Nearly everybody, I am told, drinks wine at their meals, and,
strange to say, there are but few drunkards in Greece. Donkeys
are very largely used here, both in Italy and in Greece. Some
of them are very small, but they carry enormous loads. I have
seen six baskets, holding over a half-bushel each, on one little
donkey. You could only see his little slender legs, his head, and
tail. Then I have seen a load of wood as big as himself piled
up on him. And these patient little creatures have to stand all
day in the streets until their load is sold.

MILKING GOATS.

Goat’s milk is so universally used, that if you want cow’s
milk, you have to call for it by name. Nearly all the butter used
is made from goat’s milk. I found both the milk and butter
good. '

You can see a man with a lot of milk-measures driving ten or
a dozen goats through the streets. When he reaches the house
of a customer, he squats behind a nanny—goat and milks the re-
quired amount, and drives on to the next. All the goats while
in town are muzzled,——I suppose to keep them from foraging.

Nearly all the Greeks dress in American style, though a few of
them cling to the old form of dress. They have a skirt like a wide
frill reaching from the waist to the knees, usually of some light
white cloth. This frill is wrapped round and round the waist un-
til it is eight or ten inches thick. Being so thick, and frilled all

 

 

