 

 

MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT. 147

must have been nearly half a mile from the extreme edge, and
yet women had been coming and going thus burdened (every
drop of water used in their homes carried on their heads) for
thousands of years. No one had ever altered the arrangement or
suggested a change.

More than a hundred yards below this fountain the water
comes out into a stone reservoir from which ﬂocks and herds are
watered. There are stone troughs on each side of this reservoir.
Men would dip the water up and pour it into these troughs, and
the sheep, goats, and cattle would come and drink. I saw some
of the same sort of contention over these troughs that took place
thousands of years ago, as described in the book of Genesis.

As I stood above the fountain of bright, clear water, and saw
those women drawing and bearing it away to the village, I won-
dered if the water turned into wine were not drawn and borne
from this very spring. If this be the true Cana of Galilee, the
answer is easy.

By an easy ride that afternoon, we reached Nazareth. Before
reaching it, however, we enjoyed some views that were of thrilling
interest. Away off to our right stood Mount Carmel, jutting out
into the blue Mediterranean. As we sat upon our horses and
looked over the country, we thought of Elijah and his wonderful
contention with Ahab and the pr0phets of Baal. His great prayer
of faith for the rain, that had been held back for three years and
six months, was lifted to the God who had just answered by ﬁre.
We could see where the servant went to look over the Mediter-
ranean for a sign of rain, and when that little cloud like a man’s
hand rose up as out of the sea, he arose from his knees and started
for J ezreel. Off to our left, on a mountain top, stood the remains
of this old city, and we could see every mile of the sixteen that
he had to run Over to reach Ahab in this city. It was a wonder-
ful race, but not equal to the one that immediately followed as
he ﬂed for his life to Horeb.

GILBOA.

Our point of observation was marvelous. Near us was the
plain of Esdraelon, or Megiddo, or Armageddon. More important
battles have been fought on this plain than at any other point
in all the land of Israel. Here Israel and the Syrians fought

