104 MY TRIP TO rHE ORIENT.

through the street to various parts of the city to announce the
fact to the authorities. The stick with the long goad on the end
is to clear the way for the runner in the crowded streets. Where
that howl is heard and that goad is seen, everything but the dogs
get out of the way. When the fact of the ﬁre is duly announced,
the engine is brought out, mounted on the shoulders of four men,
who proceed with all haste to the ﬁre. If it has not burned out
by the time they get there, they proCeed to put it out, if they
can. It would be a very persistent blaze that would survive
such treatment, and continue to burn.

The chief of the tower-gang gave us an illustration of how the
thing is done. He’armed one of the men with a goad, and had
him run round the large circular room with a prolonged howl
that would have done credit to a steam-whistle;

MUSEUM.

Our ﬁrst visit in Constantinople ,was to the Museum of Anti-
quities. Here the old, the strange, and the curious have been
gathered, especially archaological treasures from Egypt and the
far East. The grave holding the ashes of the dead, held sacred
by all nations, from the untutored savage to the most learned
and enlightened, has been, in these latter days, ruthlessly in—
vaded, robbed of its sacred trust, and not only the coﬂin, but the
grinning skeletons of the dead, have been dragged out and put on
exhibition. These archwologists are no respecters of persons,
for they have unearthed all, and have displayed all, from the
unshrouded skeletons of soldiers who died on the battle-ﬁeld,
to kings and queens, whose persons, in life, were held too sacred
to be approached without ceremony, and whose lifeless bodies
were laid away as sacred dust. These have been laid side by side,
in this practical age, in which sentiment must give way to science,
and men ﬁnd and read lessons writ in the mold of death.

We Were shown sarcophagi from Sidon, Smyrna, and Tripoli,
some of them said to be two thousand eight hundred years old.
One from Babylon; of wood, covered with metal, showed marks of
great age; another, of terra-cotta, was untouched by the tooth of
time. There were found treasures of gold in many of the royal
cofﬁns. In one, side by side with human bones, were found the

 

