MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT. 65

crater the smoke was red, as it was lit up by the ﬁres within the
crater.

We ﬁrst passed the site of Herculaneum. This buried city
lies nearer the base of Vesuvius than does Pompeii, but researches
have been conﬁned mainly to the latter. On arriving at the
station, we were immediately conducted into the exhumed city.
We were ﬁrst shown some of the things of interest taken from the
ruins. We saw the bodies of a number of men and women, just
in the position in which the volcanic storm overtook them. In
almost every instance the men had money-belts around their
bodies. We saw the body of a poor dog all doubled up as if in a
death agony. We 'were shown loaves of bread taken from an oven.
It was badly burned. But the poor man or woman who put it to
bake had no opportunity of taking it from the oven when it was
done, and so it burned to a coal. We saw the oven from which
it was taken, when passing through the city.

The streets were all well paved, with neat sidewalks on each
side. Most of the streets were quite narrow, and in many of them
deep ruts were worn in the solid stone pavements, by the wheels
of the carriages. These streets were just wide enough between
the sidewalks for a. carriage to pass, and as a consequence the
wheels always ran in the same places. There was no such thing
as two carriages passing each other in the streets. This had to
be done at the crossings of streets. There were no animals used,
but two slaves drew the carriages. At frequent intervals there.
were stepping-stones near the crossings of the streets, that stood
up even with the sidewalks, for the convenience of pedestrians in
crossing the streets. The carriages had to straddle these stones.
In one of the main streets stood a fountain surrounded by a
square marble coping about three feet high. On one side, raised
above this coping, was the ﬁgure of a man, from whose mouth the
water ﬂowed. So. popular was this drinking-place, and so fre-
quently was it used, that a place was worn in the stone where the
drinker placed his hand when he leaned over to put his mouth to
the mouth of the fountain, and all the mouth, and part of the
nose of the marble ﬁgure, were worn away by the lips of the
thirsty multitudes that drank at it. I could hardly believe this,
had- I not seen it with my own eyes, and had I not seen the bronze
toes of the statue of St. Peter kissed away by the lips of the faith-
ful.

