166 MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT.

and the current is very strong, especially beneath the surface, so
much so that it is not safe to go into it. A few years ago, an old
lady—a Methodist—concluded she must be immersed in the
Jordan. She said she did not give up her Methodism, or forego
her infant baptism, but it was just the whim of an old woman.
A party, who was present, told me that it took four men to do
it. Two had to hold her from being swept down the stream, and
the other two immersed her. Beyond the Jordan we could see
Mount Nebo, where Moses viewed the promised land, and died.

We made a special trip to Bethlehem. On the way we passed
the tomb of Rachel. No doubt but the body of this beloved wife
of Jacob lies beneath this pile. In all ages of Israel’s history, it
has been recognized, while the Scripture tells of her death and
burial about this place.

Here we met a funeral procession, bearing the body of a child
to its last resting-place. The burial custom of this place is pecue-
liar. When a child dies, a stranger to the family is selected to
bear the body. This he does in his arms. There is no cofﬁn.
How the body was robed, I could not see; for a cloth was thrown
over it. A number went before, and others followed the corpse,
wailing in a most doleful voice. When they reach the cemetery,
no grave is dug, but the body is laid on the surface of the ground
and cement is piled round it till it reaches a little above the
body, when sticks are laid across it, and the cement is then piled
on until it reaches a height of two or three feet, and the top is
s10ped off on each side like the roof of a house. I saw hundreds
of such graves in the cemetery where stands the tomb of Rachel.
This is the burying-place for Bethlehem. And this is why the
prophet, referring to the innocents slain by Herod, said, “ In Rama
was ,there a voice heard, lamentation, and weeping, and great
mourning, Rachel weeping for her children, and would not be
comforted, because they are not.” Here, hard-by the tomb of
Rachel, — the mother of these Hebrews, — the disconsolate
mothers of these children met to bewail their dead. I saw in the
early morning, in a cemetery, thirty or forty women who had met
to bewail their dead.

Not far from Bethlehem— the home of David—is a little village
on the mountain side, where Kish, the father of Saul, the ﬁrst
king of Israel, lived. So these ﬁrst two kings of Israel were born
near each other.

