MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT. 107

heads of three dogs. What a dead man could do with dogs in
the land of shades is not recorded. ‘

The sarcophagus of the King of Sidon was one bought from
the Egyptians, and was a most elaborate and costly affair. Two
tall candelabra and a throne captured by the Turks from the
Persians when they overran all the East, we also found in this
Museum. I was much interested in the ornaments of gold dug
up from the ruins of ancient Troy by Dr. Schliemann.

In Salonica was found a bronze statue of Jupiter, some two
feet in height, with two rubies for eyes, as bright as the day they
were set in the image.

From the tomb of Alexander the Great was taken a wreath of
pure gold, representing the laurel. In this case the brow faded,
and crumbled back to dust, while yet the laurel wreath was fair.
But it is not my purpose to describe this Museum. I have only
singled out a few objects, that you may form an idea of its char-
acter and contents.

MOSQUE OF ST. SOPHIA.

Constantinople is a city of mosques and minarets. The
mosques are all dome-shaped, sometimes swelling up in a single
dome, like a great bubble, amid the sea of houses; at other times
the main dome is surrounded by half-domes on every side, that
increase the area and yet maintain the shape desired. The min-
arets shoot up by the side of the mosques, slender, round, and
tall, ending in a sharp point like a well-trimmed pencil. High
up the minaret is a sort of collar, or circular room, in which the
man stands to call to prayers. Five times a day, from each and
every one of these minarets, are calls to prayers made. The
Moslem rings no bells to summon the faithful to duty, but, rain
or shine, the long, whining cry from these human tongues ﬂoats
over the city like an echo from the skies. Some mosques have
but a single minaret; others have four, and even more. A few
minutes before the hour to call, a man appears in his little aerie
and waits the appearance of those in other minarets; for they can
see from one to the other, and just at the proper moment the
mellow notes come ﬂoating down from all alike. There is a faci-
nating sweetness, that seems to ﬁll all the air as voice mingles
with voice above, and descends like interlocked notes of music

