 

172 MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT.

several inches deep, and let the water stand upon it for some
weeks. It is planted as soon as possible after the water is drawn
off, and I was told that a crop of corn (maize) would mature in
six weeks after planting.

I was surprised at the great quantity of corn that is planted
all over the East. While passing through Palestine, we saw
green corn in market, and said we should like a good mess of corn.
These people know nothing of our mode of preparing corn.
We told them to boil it on the cob. So at the conclusion of our
meal here came the corn, fully matured, and hard, served as a
dessert. Of course we had to compliment our provider and our
cook by gnawing and eating a few grains. But it was hard work,
in more ways than one.

The soil of Egypt, though it has been under cultivation for over
four thousand years, is as rich as anything you can conceive of.
We drove for miles and miles over it, in various directions from
Cairo, and it was the same everywhere. I am not surprised at
the record made during the “seven plenteous years,” that “the
earth brought forth by handfuls.” It was capable of it then; it
is capable of it now. Nothing is allowed to cumber the ground
'when it has accomplished its purpose. Even the cotton-stalks
are carefully pulled up by the roots, packed in great bundles
on. camels, and borne away to burn as fuel. We frequently met
great strings of camels loaded with cotton-stalks. Here, as well
as in Palestine, fuel, especially for cooking purposes, is made of
almost anything that grows.

On the outer edge of the road to the Pyramids the English
have constructed an electric tramway out to the Pyramids. So,
even in this old country, with its fossilized customs, the Christian
nations of earth are introducing conveniences and improvements.

Before we reached the Pyramids, the Arab guides and helpers
were trotting along by the side of our carriages, and in broken
English were offering their services, and praising their virtues
and powers as helpers. By some means they knew we were
Americans, and they called over the names of the Americans
whom they had helped up the Pyramids. From that time till
we left, they were like our shadows, ﬁrst helping, and from that
time on crying for “ backsheesh.”

Nearly all our party climbed to the t0p of old Ch'eops. I knew

