MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT; 53

There is a ﬁnger-ring set with the rarest and most costly stones.
This ring, almost as large as a common-sized napkin-ring, just
ﬁts the ﬁnger of the statue. Besides these, there are other orna- ,
ments Worn by this statue on this day, that I cannot now recall.
June 29th is called St. Peter’s Day, and in Rome is one of the
greatest in the year. On that day the church is crowded to its ‘
utmost capacity. Admiring thousands gaze with awe and ad-
miration on the gold-and-diamond-ladened ﬁgure of the apostle,
while the Peter that the Evangelists tell us about had to look
into a ﬁsh’s mouth to get a few pence with which to pay the trib-
ute laid upon him and his divine Master. But upon what meat
hath this Peter fed, that he hath grown so great?

No potentate on earth, east or west, excels him in the richness
and Splendor of his adorning. “Even Solomon in all his glory
was not arrayed like this one.” Nor has ever such homage been
paid to any one before. As I looked upon this statue and upon
the gorgeous robes that are placed upon it,—saw with mine own
eyes the sparkling gems that blazed in the miter they place on
its head, and heard them tell what homage is paid it,—I could
not but ask myself the question, Is this the enlightened twentieth
century? and is it possible for such things to exist in Rome,
which, before our Saviour’s time, sat proud mistress of the world,
and whose very literature has come down to the present day,—
where, lying in the same building, is the oldest manuscript of the
Bible, whose ﬁrst command was thundered from Sinai against
the worship of images? But I must not forget that I am telling
about the treasures of the Pope, that it was my privilege to see.

There was a “suspensonia,”—a something like an immense
candlestick, whose top spread in every direction, like rays of light.
Each one of these rays was studded with diamonds great and I
small, until there seemed to be no more place for another precious
stone. This single article, perhaps four feet in height, cost one
hundred and twenty thousand dollars.

Then there was the ring of St. Peter, spoken of before, big
enough to go over the ﬁst of a child, but that just ﬁts the ﬁnger
of the statue,'that was worth its thousands. This, too, is placed
on the ﬁnger of St. Peter, June 29th, with all the other rich be-
longings of this ﬁsherman of Galilee.

There was a candelabra presented by the gifted Michael Angelo.

