MY TRIP TO THE ORIENT. - 37

low—passengers on _the way over, I went through the Tower, the
history of which runs back into the mists of tradition. Here, we
are told, the Emperor Julius Cwsar' held his court while in Britain.
But there is enough of unwritten history to make this the most
conspicuous object in this city of wonders. Miss Behrens had to
surrender her kodak and her reticule to the custody of an ofﬁcer
while we went into the Tower. The ﬁrst thing that arrested my
attention in approaching the Tower were numbers of cross-slits in
the heavy walls, from which soldiers could ﬁre their muskets at
enemies on the outside, with but little danger to themselves.
Massiveness and strength marked every part of the pile. In the
days in which it was built it was impregnable, but with the thir-
teen-inch guns of the present day, that can hurl a shell ten miles,
and pierce steel armor-plates a foot thick, they could knock the
Whole thing into a rock-pile in a few hours.

The moat that surrounded the Tower, and that can still be
ﬂooded if necessary, is now dry, and the old drawbridge spans it
unmolested. I looked with interest on the stone steps leading .
from the river, up which many a prisoner had climbed to go out
no more. We entered heavy oaken doors that had shut out hope
from many a high-born and many a royal prisoner in troublous
times. _

In this Tower are treasured up various implements of war from
the ancient times. Here are the old match-lock guns, the ﬁrst
ever used with gunpowder. Then comes the ﬂint-lock, and on
and on to the guns of the present day. Back of all this is the
sling, the bow and arrow, the cross-bow, the lance, the spear, the
grenade, the dagger, sword, and battle-ax. Here we ﬁnd the de-
fensive armor as well, _the helmet, the breast-plate, and heavy
and ingenious coats of mail; ﬁgures cf knights .of the olden
times, mounted on horseback, both horse and rider covered with
mail, seemingly heavy and unwieldy enough to weigh down horse
and rider, and close enough to melt a warrior even in winter-time.
Then there were instruments of torture and cruelty. I saw
women shudder when they looked upon the “rack,” an instru-
ment with a heavy beam at each end, round which the ropes at-
tached to hands and feet are wound, tearing the helpless victim
in two. Then there was the thumb-screw, not so deadly, but, if
possible, more cruel. There is preserved the real block on which

 

