270 MODERN EGYPT AND Tuners.

On the west bank, seven miles above Eéné, are mounds of
an old town, now called Kom Ayr.

A short distance above El Kenan, and about fourteen miles
from Eéné, is an ancient quay of hewn stone; but I have
not been able to discover any town of consequence in the
immediate neighbourhood, to which it is likely to have be-
longed. Some suppose it to mark the site of Chnubis. '

Three miles beyond this, and a short distance from the river,
is a ruined pyramid, called El Koéfa. It is built in degrees,
like the small pyramids of Geezeh, and is composed of lime-
stone blocks, from the rock on which it stands, of irregular
form, and hewn with but little care. Though in a dilapidated
state, twenty-ﬁve tiers still remain, and its total height, now
reduced to about 35 feet ', may perhaps originally have ex-
ceeded 50; the base being about 60 feet square.

Four miles farther to the southward is El Kom el ahmar, or
“ the red mound.” It marks the site of Hieraconpolis, which,
as Strabo informs us, was opposite Eilethyas; and though
little now exists of the ancient buildings that once adorned
the “ city of the hawks,” the name of the ﬁrst Osirtasen
sufﬁces to establish their claim to a very remote antiquity.
Near them is a large enclosure of brick, with double walls,
of considerable height.

Opposite El ISenan commences the region of sandstone,
whose compact and even grain induced the ancient Egyptians
to employ it in the erection of most of the large buildings in
Upper Egypt.

A short distance from El Mahamid is an isolated rock,
which has been quarried at an early period, and on whose
southern side the workmen have sculptured a few rude tri-
glyphs.

Betwcen this and El Kab stood a small peripteral temple,
which has suffered the fate of all the interesting ruins of
Eilethyas, and whose needless destruction necessarily excites
our regret at the ignorance of the Turks.1'

It was surrounded by a peristyle of square pillars, and

*h By sextant. Colonel Vyse makes it 59 ﬂ. 6 in. square, and 38 ﬂ. 6
in. igh.

1- Mohammed Ali has frequently given orders that these Vandalisms
should not be repeated. We may hope he will do more, and put a stop to
t em.

