180 MODERN EGYPT AND runs.

The suite of this historical subject continues on the south
wall. The king, returning victorious to Egypt, proceeds
slowly in his car" , conducting in triumph the prisoners he
has made, who walk beside and before it, three others being
bound to the axle. Two of his sons attend as fanbearersf,
and the several regiments of Egyptian infantry, with a corps
of their allies, under the command of three other of these
princes, marching in regular step and in the close array of
disciplined troops, accompany their ln'ng. He arrives at
Thebes, and presents his captives to Amum'e and Maut, the
deities of the city, who compliment him, as usual, on the vic-
tory he has gained, and the overthrow of the enemy he has
“ trampled beneath his feet”:

On the north wall the king presents offerings to different
gods, and below is an ornamental kind of border, composed
of a procession of the king’s sons and daughters. Four of
the former, his immediate successors, bear the asp or basilisk §,
the emblem of majesty, and have their kingly ovals added to
their names.

Passing through the centre door, on the inner or north
side of this corridor,'you arrive at the site of the portico. On
either side of the entrance the king is attended by his consort,
who, as usual, holds the sistrum, but her name is not intro-
duced. Some of the chambers at the back part of the
building remain, and may be visited by descending amidst
the masses of crude brick walls which encumber them; but
the greater part are entirely buried and concealed.

If the sculptures of the area arrest the attention of the
antiquary, or excite the admiration of the traveller, those of
the exterior of the building are no less interesting in an
historical point of view, and the north and east walls are

"‘ The whip he holds is frequently represented, and generally similar to
this. See Ancient Egyptians, vol. 1. p. 106. Plate 1-.

1- This is one of the many instances of the peculiar severity of ﬁlial du-
ties in the East.

I I avail myself of this opportunity of noticing an error in the vocabu-
lary of my Materia llierog. under the word “strong ;” the second and
third group should read “ powerful sandals,” and the ﬁfth “ overpowered”
or “ con uered."

§ M. hampollion has very satisfactorily derived its Greco- tian
name ouraios, “ royal,” from cure, the Egyptian word for “ king.” ilisk
has the same meaning “royal.”

