182 MODERN EGYPT AND THERES.

to be made in the hieroglyphics of the horses" that have
been captured.

Remcses then proceeds in his car, having his bow and
sword in one hand and his whip in the other, indicating that
his march still lies through an enemy’s country. The van of
his army is composed of a body of chariots; the infantry in
close order, preceding the royal car, constitute the centre,
and other similar corps form the ﬂank and rear. They are
again summoned .by sound ' of trumpet to the attack of
another Asiaticf enemy, and in the next compartment the
Egyptian monarch gives orders for the charge of the hostile
army drawn up in the open plain. Assisted by their allies,
the Shairetana, a maritime people armed with round bucklers
and spears, they fall upon the undisciplined troops of the
enemy, who, after a short conﬂict, are routed, and retreat in
great disorder. The women endeavour to escape with their
children on the ﬁrst approach of the Egyptians, and retire in
plaustrai drawn by oxen.§ The ﬂying chariots denote the
greatness of the general panic, and the conquerors pursue
them to the interior of the country. Here, while passing a
large morass, the king is attacked by several lions I], one of
which, transﬁxed with darts and arrows, he lays breathless
beneath his horse’s feet; another attempts to ﬂy towards the
jungle, but, receiving a last and fatal wound, writhes in the
agony of approaching death. if A third springs up from

"' The ﬁgure of the horse is, as usual, preceded by-its name chor.

-|~ This people are called Fekkaros by M. Champollion. I am ignorant
of the force of the ﬁrst character and of his reasons for adopting the F.
May they not be the Tochari? “ a large tribe,” according to tolemy, on
the north-east of Bactria, and at no great distance from he Rhibii. If
any of the sculptures of Thebes refer to the rebellion of the Bactrians,
they are here.

1 Plaustra were also used in Egypt from the earliest times, and are men-
tioned in Genesis, xlv. 19. &c. Strabo also speaks of them. They are the
more remarkable here as putting us in mind of a custom very prevalent
among some Eastern nations of posting their waggons in the rear when
going to battle. The Tartars of later times were noted for this custom.

§ With the hump of Indian cattle. They seem to have been formerly
very common in Egypt also, as they are at present in Kordolhn and
Sennar. See Ancient Egyptians, vol. i. p. 369. Woodcut 65.

[| One modern author as supposed this to represent a lion chase;
another has discovered the lion of ()symandyas, which assisted him in
battle. We have frequently known sportsmen shoot their own dogs, but
nothing justiﬁes a similar opinion with regard to the king on this occasion.

{I The position of this lion is very characteristic of the impotent fury

