214 MODERN mm AND THEBEB.

is unﬁnished. Part of the broken mrcophagus lies on the
other side of the hall. It bears the name of this monarch in
intaglio; and his ﬁgure on the lid, a ﬁne specimen of bold
relief in granite, is raised nine inches above the surface. This
catacomb was open at an early epoch. Its total length is 236
feet.

No. 12. is unsculptured. It reaches only to a distance
of 17 2 feet, but has several side chambers at the upper end.
The last room crosses over N o. 9. It was probably known to
the Greeks and Romans.

N o. 10., adj oining the Harper’s tomb, presents the name
of Amunmeses, whose exact era, as well as that of the two
queens who are introduced in the inner part of this cata-
comb, is uncertain. It is however probable that he lived in
the twenty-ﬁrst dynasty. This was also open at an early
period. It is now closed after the distance of about 250 feet.

No. 16. is of Remeses, or Remesso I., the father of Osi-
rei ', and grandfather of Remeses II. ; being the oldest tomb
hitherto discovered in this valley; and is among the num-
ber of those opened by Belzoni. The sarcophagus within it
bears the same name.

No. 18. is of Remeses X., but is almost entirely ﬁlled
up. It was probably one of those open in the time of the
Ptolemies. .

No. 5. is nearly closed. Its plan differs very widely from
those of the other tombs. Neither of these are deserving of
a visit.

N o. 19. is a small catacomb, which presents the name of
a prince Remeses, or Remesso-Mandooho . . ., whose features
are very peculiar. He was a royal scribe and commander of .
the troops, and appears to have been heir-apparent at the time
of his death. It is only open to the distance of about 65 feet.

N o. 20. is a long passage, of which only 170 feet have
been explored, descending to a depth of 76 feet perpendicular.
It was supposed to lead through the rocks to the plain of
Igoorneh; and to ascertain this fact, Mr. Burton cleared it to
the above-mentioned distance, but he was obliged to abandon
his researches owing to the danger of the mephitic air, which

* Osirei or Osiri I.

