176 MODERN EGYPT AND THEBEB.

levelled to form the columns that now spoil the architectural
effect of the area; and the total destruction of the Osiride
ﬁgures, which once adorned its pillars. But if the rigid
piety, or the domestic convenience, of the early Christians
destroyed much of the ornamental details of this grand
building, we are partly repﬁd by the interesting sculptures
they unintentionally preserved, beneath the clay or stucco
with which they concealed from their view what they had not
time or patience to deface.

The architraves present the dedication of the “ palace of
Remeses at Thebes,” which is said to have been built of good
hard blocks of sandstone, and the adytum to have been beau-
tiﬁed with precious stones and silver. Mention is also made
of a door-way of hard stone, ornamented in a manner similar
to the one before noticed.

On the east, or rather north-east wall, Remeses is borne in
his shrine, or canopy, seated on a throne ornamented by the
ﬁgures of a lion, and a sphin'x which is preceded by a hawk.‘
Behind him stand two ﬁgures of Truth‘l‘ and Justice, with
outspread wings. Twelve Egyptian princes, sons of the
king I, bear the shrine; ofﬁcers§ wave ﬂabella around the
monarch; and others, of the sacerdotal order, attend on either
side, carrying his arms and insignia. Four others follow;
then six of the sons of the king, behind whom are two scribes
and eight attendants of the military class, bearing stools and
the steps of the throne. In another line are members of the
sacerdotal order, four other of the king’s sons, fan-bearers,
and military scribes; a guard of soldiers bringing up the rear
of the procession. Before the shrine, in one line, march six
oﬂiccrs, bearing sceptres and other insignia; in another, a
scribe reads aloud the contents of a scroll he holds unfolded
in his hand, preceded by two of the king’s sons and two dis-
tinguished persons of the military and priestly orders.

The rear of both these lines is closed by a pontiﬂ'll, who, tum-

. The emblem of the king as Phrah (Pharaoh).

+ This refers to the double character of this goddess, my authority for
whose name I have given in my Materia Hierog., p. 4-5.

I They are always distingmshed by a badge appended from their head-
dress, inclosing probably the lock of hair usually denoting son or child.

§ Probably the Pterophori.

I] Not the “ eldest son of the king,” as M. Champollion supposes.

