388 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

A’ :r a lunch and some little time spent in gathering a
few mementoes of the Dead Sea, such as some pebbles, pieces
of the black sulphureous stone which here abounds, and ﬁlling
a tin case with the water, we mounted again and rode onward.
For some distance we followed the water’s edge, proceeding
toward the mouth of the Jordan, and riding over the saltish
plain above spoken of ; and about three quarters of a mile
east of us we could distinctly perceive the volume of water
which the river constantly brings down, and which is so dif-
ferent in color, quality, 650. from that of the sea. We had
not forgotten the many deeply interesting points which this
sea and its history may well fasten in the memory; we had
mused over what we saw, and we could not forget that once
this plain and valley, where now is all desolation and where
there is no life, were fertile and beautiful like “the garden of
the Lord.” The Scripture account we had read over with
a deep and solemn sense of its awful importance, and with a
realization that there are limits to the Divine mercy; there
are times and seasons when the cup of iniquity becomes full,
and wrath and vengeance go out to fulﬁl their mission ; and
those dread warnings of the man of God seemed to acquire
new force as we looked upon the very scene to which they
were applied :—“ The whole land thereof is brimstone and
salt, and burning, that is not sown nor beareth, nor any

speciﬁc gravity he determines to be as 1211 to 1000 of fresh water, and the sub-
stances held in solution by it, to be to 100 grains-—

Muriate of Lime, . . . . . 3.920
“ Magnesia, . . . 10.246

” Soda, . . . . . 10.360
Sulphate of Lime, . . . . . 0.054
24580

Compare the note from Lieut. Lynch, on p. 387.

‘ “And Lot lifted up his eyes, and beheld all the plain ofJordan, that it was
well watered everywhere, before the Lord destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah, even
as the Garden of the Lord, like the land of Egypt, as thou comestunto Zorn."—
Gen. xiii. 10. n

