JACOB’S WELL. 411

of their qualities, I assure you I am delighted with them;
their paces are just to my taste ; they are trained to walk at '
a rapid pace and to keep this up for hours; they know naught
about that horrible gait termed a trot, which almost kills me
when I attempt to ride at home; and they gallop or canter
most swiftly and pleasantly indeed, being always tractable
under the management of the bit and bridle. I hope to have
many a delightful ride before our journey is ended.

Soon after, Mount Gerizim rose distinctly before us, with
Mount Ebnl beyond, a deep gorge or valley lying between ;*
and when we had been rejoined by our dragoman and a
Nubian muleteer, and' had proceeded for an hour or so,
still over the plain, we came to a spot of the deepest interest,
and one which excited all our sympathies ;—I mean Jacob’s
Well. It is some distance from the city, and at present is
deserted and desolate, without water. I had hardly expected
such a scene as met the eye; climbing over a low wall of
stone, and making our way through the brush and brambles,
which are quite thick here, we came to the mouth of the
ancient well; at present the opening is only about afoot wide,
and. it looked to me as though the stones forming the mouth
had fallen 01' been pushed together and made it much smaller
than it once was. Maundrell’s account is interesting, and
well worth quoting, since there is little doubt that the well,
and everything about it, is very nearly precisely the same as
it was in his day, a hundred and ﬁfty years ago. “ Over the
well there stood formerly a large church, erected by that
great and devout'patr'oness of the Holy Land, the empress
Helena. But of this the veracity of time, assisted by the
hands of the Turks, has left nothing buta few foundations re-
maining. The well is covered at present with an old stone
vault, into which you are let down through a very straight
hole ; and then removing a broad, ﬂat stone, you discover the

* These mountains are between 800 and 1000 feet above thevalley, and some
2700 above the Mediterranean

