ANTIQUITY 0F sIDON. 479

regained some of its former glory and wealth, it opened its
gates to Alexander the Great, and thereby escaped the fate
which fell so heavily upon its daughter, Tyre. Under the
Romans it was an opulent city; and it enjoyed large trade
and commerce in the time of our Sav-our, who visited the
regions of Tyre and Sidon (Matt. xv. 21; Mark, vii. 24).
St. Paul also found some brethren here, on his way to Rome
(Acts, xxvii. 3). Early Christian writers speak of it as an
important city. During the times of the Crusaders it fared
variously, being sometimes in the hands of the Saracens, and
sometimes in those of the Christians. Since the end of the
thirteenth century it has been mostly in ruins, and of little
consequence, notwithstanding Fakhr ed-Din gave a new im-
pulse to its trade, and in some degree revived its ancient im-
portance. Jezzar Pasha drove out the French in 1791;
since which date the Arabs have managed its trade in their
own way,—and that, from what you know of their characters
and habits, is a wretched way, indeed.

We left Saida between nine and ten o’clock, and bent our
steps towards Beirut: I have already alluded to its pleas-
antness of appearance and the character of its environs;
but Dr. Robinson expresses all that need be said on this
subject so well in the following passage, that I beg to quote
it for your gratiﬁcation: “The beauty of Saida,” he says,
“consists in its gardens and orchards of fruit trees, which
ﬁll the plain and extend to the foot of the mountains. The
city and tract around are abundantly supplied with water,
by aqueducts and channels which conduct it from the Auly
and other smaller streams as they issue from the mountains.
The environs exhibit everywhere :1 luxuriant verdure, and
the fruits of Saida are reckoned among the ﬁnest of the
country. Hasselquist enumerates pomegranates, apricots,
ﬁgs, almonds, oranges, lemons and plums, as growing here
in such abundance as to furnish annually several ship-loads
for export; to which D’Arvieux adds also pears, peaches

