8 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

the last twenty years, can bring themselves to imagine, that
it once deserved so high epithets, or was really the great
and magniﬁcent city which the ancients would lead us to
suppose. Hardly one but what speaks of it in terms of deep
disappointment; and probably, among the places of which we
read, and concerning which the imagination becomes excited,
and aroused, by pondering over the glory and renown of other
days, there is none which more effectually dampens, if not
destroys all enthusiasm, than the present city of Alexandria.
It needs not that I quote the words of others to prove what
they felt; it may sufﬁce that I declare, and this without any
intention of undervaluing a city, whose position is of the ﬁrst
importance to commerce with the far East, that I was vexed
at having expected too much, and sadly out of humor with
the reality, as it opened itself to my wondering eyes.

But not to dwell upon general remarks, which, I fear,
convey no very clear idea, permit me to enter a little more
into particulars. Frequently have I perambulated the city
in every direction, sometimes on foot, but more generally on
the back of a. donkey. In many respects Alexandria has lost
its oriental aspect, and can hardly be said to give one a very
good idea of an Eastern city. The influence of European
habits and customs, and- the eﬂ'ects produced by intercourse
with the French and English are quite evident; and it is
not unlikely that in the course of time, and by the force of

equal number of slaves. The Romans, too, appeared to have considered it as sec-
ond only to their own proud capital, and as late as the period when it was taken
by the Saracens, AD. 640, it still retained its original wealth and splendor. “I
have taken,” says ’Amr, in his letter to the khalif, “the great city of the west.
It is impossible for me to enumerate the variety of its riches and beauty; I shall
content myself with observing, that it contains 4000 palaces, 4000 baths, 406
theatres, or places of amusement, 12,000 shops for the sale of vegetable food,
and 40,000 tributary Jews." Its importance was almost annihilated, you will
recollect, by the discovery of the cape of Good Hope, in 1497, and the enterprise
and skill of the Portuguese; but, singularly enough, it bids fair to resume its
ancient greatness, now that England must needs take it in the way to her vast
East India possessions.

