228 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

them here unrelated, as I cannot speak of them with any
patience, and am too keenly sensible of the annoyances here
suffered, to dwell upon them a moment longer than I can
help. You can imagine all that I might say, though it
would be less than the reality, and has deprived us of the
inestirnable privilege of spending the entire Holy Week in the
Holy City. Were it not that no power can prevent my writing
to you, my dear S., I should feel disposed to anathematize
the very name of quarantine for the rest of my life; but as
it is, I shall try to forget some of our troubles in telling you
of our wanderings during the past twelve or thirteen days.

Originally, it formed a part of our plan to enter Syria at
another point, after visiting Mount Sinai and other localities
connected with the history of the Jews. I felt a deep inter-
est in the questions which have been so ably discussed‘in
some recent publications, respecting the passage of the Red
Sea and the true MOunt Sinai ; and I was desirous of inves-
tigating on the spot, several points, which appear to me to
settle the matter, so far as Jebel Mousa is concerned, and to
verify the very ancient tradition in favor of the mountain,
which is generally thought to be that on which the Lord God
descended and held converse with His servant Moses. But,
mu ch-to my regret, circumstances prevented our taking this
route, and we determined upon crossing the desert by way
of El Arish: this route has the advantage of being much
shorter and of course less fatiguing than that by way of
Mount Sinai; and if I may judge by my experience often
days’ steady riding on a camel, gives one quite as much as he
desires of life in the desert.

Our rather extensive preparations having been completed,
we left Cairo on the afternoon of March 20th, and proceed-
ing as far as Matarieh, the ancient Heliopolis or On of the
Scriptures, we halted for the night, and were the next day
joined by the Rev. Dr. Wainwright and Mr. R. B. Minturn,
of New York, with whdm it has been our privilege to trawl

