WORKS OF THE EGYPTIAN KINGS. 145

columnar ediﬁce (to the southeast), the side chambers, and
all the others in that direction, were added by his orders.”
Subsequently, Osirei, a great conqueror, and his son Remeses
II., probably the far-famed Sesostris, beautiﬁed and enlarged
the bounds of the temple: the former added the grand hall,
spoken of above, and the latter caused to be designed and
executed, very many of those striking sculptures on the north-
east side, which illustrate the extent and variety of his mar-
tial achievements. The son of Remeses II. continued the
work begun by his illustrious father, and built the area in
front, with massive propyla, preceded by granite colossi, and
an avenue of Sphinxes; and succeeding monarchs adding
still more and more, the several ediﬁces by degrees became
united in one grand whole, connected either by avenues of
Sphinxes, or by crude brick inclosures. After the time of
Cambyses, BC. 525, who manifested such intensity of rage
against the monuments and temples of Egypt, some other,
but less important additions were made, and various repairs
and sculptures were introduced, as late as the last ages oi
Egyptian independence. Ptolemy Lathyrus, however, BC
116, exasperated against the rebellious citizens of Thebes
appears to have done this ancient city greater injury, than
even the Persian conqueror; and as we are informed, reduced
it to so deplorable a state, that it “no longer deserved a rank
among the cities of Egypt.” Since that period, it has gra-
dually sunk into insigniﬁcance, and for ages has lain in ruins.
Before leaving Karnak, and its astonishing remains of an-
cient art and magniﬁcence, I must beg your indulgence for a
short space, to one of the most interesting sculptures in the
whole temple, particularly on account of its connection with
Scripture history. Some time before the visit of the French '
and Italian commission to Egypt, in 1828, Champollion le
Jeune had discovered, on the exterior southwest wall, near
the doorway, the cartouche, which proved, on examination, to

refer to the capture of Jerusalem by the Egyptian king, called
7

