SCENERY ALONG THE ROAD. 255

wind, and an appearance of the clouds which reminded me
very much of home, and as I have noticed above, we had fre-
quent showers, which served to add brilliancy to the green
ﬁelds through which we were passing. In general, our ride
to-day was over one continuous plain, with occasionally gentle
slopes, and some low hills and lovely valleys ; as there are no
fences in this part of the world, and as the road is simply a
path for horses, camels, asses, &c.—no vehicles ever being
used—the view is unobstructed, and the eye has a range as
extensive as could be desired. We had opportunity, every
now and then, to, see the primitive mode of ploughing, which
isnot uncommon in this country; it is very simple and easy,
since all that the Arabs do is merely to pass a rope over a
camel’s hump and attach it to a rude instrument for turn.
ing up the ground, such an one as our scientiﬁc farmers would
despise as a plough ; sometimes, too, we would see an ass and
a heifer, yoked together, for this purpose, and the husband-
man directing them with a long goad, pointed with iron;
a circumstance, which called to mind that passage in the
Acts (ix. 5), where our Lord declares to Saul, the astonished
and trembling persecutor, “it is hard for thee to kick against
the pricks,” or goads,—it is insane folly for thee thus to in-
jure and ruin thyself, by attempting to ﬁght against God, and
like a silly brute, which uselessly resists his master, to strive to
thy own wounding and hurt against Me, thy Lord and Master.

At a quarter past eleven, we passed Burbareh, on our left,
and about noon, Dimreh, and other small villages. At fro.
quent intervals, too, we saw sheikhs’ or saints’ tombs, which,
with their White domes and solid construction of stone, gener-
ally about twelve to ﬁfteen feet in height, form picturesque
and rather imposing objects in the midst of the plain and on
the hill-sides. About two o’clock, from a slight elevation,
we had a ﬁne View of the sea ; after which, we rode over a
broad plain, commencing near Es-Sawaﬁr.’ Just beyond the
town is an ancient well of solid masonry, some two or three

