THE ROAD FROM Janrcno. 397

however, as early as we could—about half-past six—and
leaving this interesting locality with many regrets, we pre-
pared to mount the hills, which must be crossed ere we could
reach the Holy City. Even at this hour the sun shone hot,
and the air was still and oppressive. I do not suppose that
you will care to have me tell you again of a road so uninvit-
ing, so dreary, and so desolate as this from Jericho up to
Jerusalem is: barrenness and deadness are indeed every-
where, and no man can traverse a path like this without
being depressed, and Without feeling that a curse does indeed
rest upon the face of the land. “One must be amid these
wild and gloomy solitudes, surrounded by an armed band,
and feel the impatience of the traveller, who rushes on to
catch a new view at every pass and turn; one must be
alarmed at the very stamp of the horses’ hoofs, resounding
through the caverned rocks, and at the savage shouts of the
footmen, scarcely less loud than the echoing thunder, pro-
duced by the discharge of their pieces in the valleys; one
must witness all this upon the spot,” ere he can appreciate
the nature and character of this gloomy road. Believe me,
I was not sorry when we drew near to the Holy City again,
and seemed once more to be amid the habitations of life, and
Witnessing the still poured out blessings of Almighty God.
About ten o’clock we came to the encampment of our
sheikh, who was very urgent with us to stop a while and
take coffee, pipes, etc., with him; but we declined, being '
eager to reach Jerusalem once more, and we parted with the
sheihh with many pretty speeches on his part, and fewer but

“ ‘And well is it so named,’ replied the Christian. ‘My native valley hath a
thousand springs, but not to one of them shall I attach, hereafter, such pre-
cious recollection as to this solitary fount, which bestows its liquid treasures
where they are not only delightful, but nearly indispensable.’

“ ‘ You say truth,’ said the Saracen; ‘for the curse is still on yonder sea of
death, and neither man nor beast drink of its waves, nor of the river which
feeds without ﬁlling it, until this inhospitable desert be passed.’ "—“ 77w Tal-
isman," ch. iii.

