FOSTAT, 0R OLD CAIRO. 33

pressive; and I am sure, from the looks of several dark-
visaged Turks or Mohammedans, that we received some of
the many malcdictions and curses which they bestow in mut-
ters upon the “dogs of Christians” that ride through their
streets with so much consequence, and whom, unlike it was
in other days, they dare not revile openly or treat with con-
turnely and violence; but, as you may suppose, their half-
uttered abuse excites much more of pity than of anger, and
hardly at all disturbed our equanimity. On we rode, in high
spirits, and anticipating no little enjoyment from our visit to
the Pyramids. About 8 o’clock we came to Old Cairo, Masr
el Atikeh, distant some three miles from Cairo. It was
founded A.D. 638, by the celebrated ’Amr, the general of the
khalif Omar, and it was here that he erected that mosk
which goes by his name, and which, according to tradition,
is connected with the rise and fall of Mohammedanism. As
the story was told me, ’Amr exclaimed, on building this edi-
ﬁce, “With this mask the religion of El-Islam rises, and
with its fall perishes the faith of our holy prophet l” Curi-
ously enough, the notion is quite prevalent among the people
that this is a true prophecy; and as the dilapidated and
almost ruinous condition of the building meets their eyes, the
feeling of danger stares them in the face, and the conviction
more or less forcibly impresses itself upon their minds, that
the cross is destined ere long to triumph over the crescent.
May that day speedily arrive! Originally the name of the
town was F ostat, but after the founding of Cairo in 971, and
its elevation to the post of metropolis of the country, Fostat
received the name of “Old Masr,” or Old Cairo, as Euro-
peans term it. It is a wretched-looking town, and evidently
in a state of the lowest depression: ruined houses, old build-
ings, idle and listless inhabitants, and other signs of decay,
give Masr el Atikeh a distressing appearance, and we were
not at all sorry to escape from it, and turn our attention to a
more enlivening prospect.

2*

