396 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

to ﬁnd our dinner all ready to be served, and to be able, with
thankful hearts, to refresh our jaded bodies with food con-
venient. The water of the fountain, too, was especially
grateful to our feelings; and we thought much of that
Prophet who exerted the power God had bestowed upon him,
to make the spring, which was salt and unﬁt to drink, a
source of pure and sweet water, the most invaluable blessing
for man in all ages and all countries. The evening was very
warm, a Sirocco having sprung up, which, despite our cool
and pleasant situation under the trees and near the brook and
fountain, oppressed us very much, and prevented our sleep-
ing, as we had desired and hoped.* We sat up late, and for
along time were gazing at the starry heavens in their un-
equalled magniﬁcence and grandeur: for the skies, in Syria,
are very brilliant and very beautiful at night. Toward mid-
night, as we were hoping to sleep in peace, the sharp and
disagreeable cries and yells of the jackals saluted our ears;
and we were regaled with their music, with little intermission,
until the next morning.

Before breaking up the next day, we took another walk to
the Fountain of Elisha, and could well appreciate the poet’s
skill and acuteness in choosing this, if he had any actual spot
in view, as his “ Diamond in the Desert,” in the delightful
story where Sir Kenneth, Richard the Lion-hearted, and
Saladin ﬁgure so pleasantly and enticingly.’r We got off,

‘ The climate here is always excessively hot, and at certain seasons this local-
ity is very sickly for strangers. Dr. Robinson compares it to the sultry heat of

Egypt. This need not he wondered at when it is recollected that the plain of
the Jordan is more than 1200 feet below the Mediterranean, and nearly 4000
below Jerusalem.

f “Ere they remounted to resume their journey, the Christian knight again
moistened his lips and dipt his hands in the living fountain, and said to his
pagan associate of the journey, ‘I would I knew the name of this delicious
fountain, that I might hold it in my grateful remembrance; for never did water
slake more deliciously a more oppressive thirst than I have this day expe-

rienced.’
“ ‘It is called in the Arabic language,’ answered the Saracen, ‘by a. name

which signiﬁes the Diamond of the Desert.’

