446 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

the tidings with which he was charged, to the trusting and
faithful handmaiden of the Lord, even Mary, of the house and
lineage of David. We were struck more with the evident
fervor and depth of devotion manifested by many of the con-
gregation, during the mass, than with the grotto itself; for,
though it is possible that this cave may be the scene of that
event which it is said to commemorate, I am not disposed to
place much reliance upon the tradition respecting it; and am
vastly more interested in the Christian state and condition of
the people who here worship God, and here call upon His
name. The excessive devotion of those who went down the
steps into the cave, and prostrate, kissed the bare stones, with
tears of emotion in their eyes, was rather painful than other-
wise to my feelings ; but I was, I confess, touched with sym-
pathy, when I saw how well the young joined in the service,
and how, notwithstanding the manifest errors and supersti-
tions of the Romish creed, they seemed to me to be inﬂuenced
'by the spirit of that Gospel, of which, indeed, they know lit-
tle or nothing, compared with the privileges of this kind which

my feeble testimony, has some pertinent remarks in connection with the frequent
attributing of holy cvents and scenes to caves and the like, which I beg to
quote: he is speaking of some grottoes on Tabor, and says, “I cannot forbenr
to mention, in this place, an observation which is very obvious to all that visit
the Holy Land, viz., that almost all passages and histories related in the Gos-
pel are represented by them that undertake to show where everything was done,
as having been done most of them in grottoes, and that even in such cases where
the condition and the circumstances of the actions themselves seem to require
places of another nature. Thus. if you would see the place where St. Anne
was delivered ot'the blessed Virgin, you are carried to a grotto; ifthe place of
the Annunciation, it is also a grotto; if the place where the blessed Virgin
saluted Elisabeth; ifthat of the Baptist‘s, or that of our blessed Saviour‘s na-
tivity; if that of the Agony, or that of St. Peter’s repentance, or that where the
Apostles made the Creed, or this ofthe Transﬁguration, all these places are also
grottoes; and,_in aword, wherever you go, you ﬁnd almost everything repre—
sented as done under ground. Certainly, grottoes were anciently held in great
esteem, or else they could never have been assigned, in spite of all probability,
for the places in which were done so many various actions. Perhaps it was
the hermits’ way ofliving in grottoes from the ﬁfth or sixth century downward,
that has brought them ever since to be in so great reputation.”—-Maundrell’l
“ Journey,” &c., April 19th.

