478 EGYPT AND THE HoLY LAND.

We found the bazaars very fairly supplied with the usual
commodities; and on the whole, considerable hustle and ac-
tivity seemed to pervade them. In the course of our explora-
tion, we visited several khans, or Wekalehs, as the Arabs
termed them. Dr. Robinson says, that there are six of these
in Saida, for the use of merchants and travellers. We went
into the court of the largest khan, and looked about us with
much interest: it formerly belonged to the French factory
and consulate, and still goes by the name of its former own-
ers. It is a. large square building, about a hundred and ﬁfty
feet in length on its sides, and has within the quadrangle a
fountain and basin in very good taste, and covered galleries
all around. It owes its erection to the celebrated emir, Fakhr
ed-Din, the prince of the Druses, about the beginning of the
seventeenth century; he was the patron of European com-
merce, and particularly well-disposed towards the French;
but instead of going into details, I must refer you to old
D’Arvieux’s ZlIémoz'res for full particulars. The result of our
examination of Saida led us to the conviction, that it is a
place of more consequence than at ﬁrst appears; though
Beirut will probably prevent its ever assuming any position
of consequence in a commercial point of view. Its popula-
tion is probably about ﬁve thousand ; two-thirds of these be-
ing Mohammedans, the remainder made up of Christians and
Jews.

Sidon undoubtedly ranks among the most ancient cities of
the world, and is mentioned in the Pentateuch, as well as in
the Iliad and Odyssey.* Its history is marked by the usual
incidents of times of peace, prosperity, luxury, vice, indolence,
war, and subjugation. About BC. 350, it was taken and
sacked by Ochus, King of Persia : subsequently, when it had

’ Gen. £10; xlix. 13; Il. vi. 289; xxiii. 743; Odyss. xv. 415; xvii. 424
Justin (xviii. 3) gives the Hebrew name the signiﬁcation, “ﬁshery” or “ ﬁsh-
lownf’ Josephus (Antiq. Jud. i. 6. 2) derives its name from Sidon, the eldel
son ofCanaan (Gen. x. 15).

