CARMEL IN ANCIENT DAYS. 457

Carmel; and we hope that the impressions made upon our
minds by this exercise will never fade away. We read about
David, and that churlish person Nabal, whose possessions
were in Carmel; about the sheep-shearing, and the uncivil
answer which Nabal sent to David’s respectful message ; about
the anger which was roused up in him, and the judicious in-
tervention of Abigail, who prevented David from shedding
blood in his wrath; about Elijah, the prophet of Jehovah,
as narrated in the eighteenth and nineteenth chapters of the
ﬁrst book of Kings; and such like. 0, it must have been a
grand and imposing sight when all Israel were gathered unto
Mount Carmel; on the one side, the zealous servant of the
Lord ; on the other the eight hundred and ﬁfty mocking
prophets of the idol Baal and of the groves. With what
power did Elijah lift up his voice and cry unto the people,
“How long halt ye between two opinions? if the Lord be
God, follow Him; but, if Baal, then follow him ;” and what
dread silence was there amid that mighty mass when the
people answered him not a word. What a day was that when
the votaries of Baal were so signally disgraced in the eyes oi
the children of Israel; when at the prayer of Elijah the Lord
manifested His power ; when the people fell on their faces and
exclaimed, “ The Lord, He is the God; the Lord, He is the
God ;” and when, at the command of the zealous avenger of
God’s truth, the prophets of Baal. were seized every one of
them,‘ and their blood mingled with the waters of the Kishon,
that ancient river, which some four hundred years before had
been sanguine with the overthrow of Sisera’s host.

Yesterday morning, the 25th inst, we bade adieu to our
friends in Carmel, and took our departure for Tyre. The
day was cloudy and windy, and when we had descended the
hill-side, crossed the fertile plain, and reached the sea-shore,
the white-capped surges beat upon the bank with a ceaseless,
and, to my ear, not unmusical roar. At half-past eight, we
reached the mouth of the river Kishon, which enters the Med~

20

