LETTER XVI.

@alharp sun the 71101;: ﬁcpulcbn.

Avowal of Preference for the Opinions of Antiquity.—Bearing on the Questions Proposed.—
Is the Holy Sepulchre rightly placed by Tradition, or not 3—Description of the Present
Church—Where Situate.—The Court.-Thc Interior —-’l‘radltiouary Localities—Effect pro-
duced on the Mimi—The Scpulchre.—-Present Appearance—Mount Calvary.-—Tombs un-
derneath—Examination of the Question at Issue.—Scriptural Statement.—Whnt is Certain.
—Present Church is within the Walls, Calvary was without.—Dimculty in Consequence.—
Topographical Argument.—Josephus’s Statelnents.——Points to be determined.—Tower of
Hippicus, where situate—Position of the Gate Genn:lth.—Conrse of the Second Wail.—
Akm and the Tyropoeon.-Result of the Examination—Argument from History and Tra-
dition.—Its Value-Knowledge, Sentiments, Position, Character, etc“ of the that Christians.
—Reign of Hadrian—What was done in Jerusalem.—Constantinc and the Bishop of Jerrh
salem.—Recovery of the Holy Sepnlchre.—lnventiun of the Cross.—Basilicn of Constan-
tlne.-—-\Vhy should we not believe in the Verity of the Holy Sepulchre ‘I—Evil Characteris-
tics of the present Age—Claims of the early Christians upon our Sympathy and Gander.—
Dr. Robinson’s strictures on anrins and his Clergy censured.—Conclusion.—Passagel
quoted from Bartlett, Fergusson and Wilson. "

JERUSALEM, April 14th, 1849.
MY DEAR S.,

“ I have an unfashionable partiality for the opinions of
antiquity,” said the learned and acute Bishop Horsley,* on
one occasion, when he had the courage to adopt the patristic
interpretation of a certain prophecy instead of that of some
modern scholars and divines. Vast as is the distance between
so great a man as he was and myself, and deservedly of little
account as may be any expression of opinion on my part;
yet I trust that it may not be deemed presumptuous in me
to avow a decided partiality of the same kind, even though
it be more unfashionable than it was half a century ago to
yield deference to the opinions and statements of early

‘ “ Biblical Criticism,” vol. ii. p. 181.

