GARDEN 0F GETHSEMANE. 289

Writ. Yes, it is indeed true, that our feet are treading holy
ground, for here, within a few yards, is the Garden of Geth-
semane. GETHSEMANE ! 0 what emotions does this one
word excite in our souls! Let us enter the hallowed pre-
cincts of that garden where “Jesus oft-times resorted with
His disciples :” the high stone wall prevents intruders, and
when once we are admitted we are alone, alone in a partially
cultivated but unfruitful spot, with only eight aged and ven-
erable olive trees to relieve the sadness of the scene.* We
seat ourselves at the foot of one of these gnarled and time
worn trees, and with emotions too deep for utterance, we
open the record of the Gospels, and in the very words of the
Apostles and Evangelists, read the pathetic history of our
Lord’s last hours of pain and anguish unutterable., Ah, will
those words ever fade from my memory; and shall not I,
even I, have grace to “do well and take it patiently” when
called upon to “suffer for it ;” shall not I, too, be enabled to
“follow His steps” whose life is our ensample, “ who did no
sin, neither was guile found in His mouth : who, when He
was reviled, reviled not again; when He suffered, He threat-
ened not; but committed Himself to Him that judgeth
righteously ; who His own self bare our sins in His own body
on the tree, that we being dead to sins, should live unto right-
eousness; by whose stripes we are healed ?”1' Here, with
tearful eyes, with bowed head, and bonded knees, let us med,
itate upon His agony, of whom we have just read in the
Gospels: let us call to mind, with the deepest contrition and
self-ahasement, the ineﬂ'able sufferings, in our behalf, of the

*“Near the same bridge and church, on the right, is the place ﬁxed on by
early tradition as the site of the garden of Gethsemane. It is a plat of ground
nearly square, enclosed by an ordinary stone wall; [a high, plastered one has
been recently erected]. The N. W. corner is 145 feet. distant from the bridge.
The W. side, measures 160 feet in length; and the N. side. 150 feet. Within
this enclosure are eight very old olive trees, with stones thrown together around
their trunks."—Rohinson's “Biblical Rename ," vol. i. 11,346.

1' 1 Pet. ii. 20—24.

13

