418 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

which Joshua read not before all the congregation of Israel,
with the women, and the little ones, and the strangers that
were conversant among them.” 0 it must have been a
most solemn sight, and one which we might imagine would
never fade away from the memory of the chosen people ; six
tribes on the one mount, and six on the other, the one utter-
ing the words of blessing, the other denouncing the curses
upon rebellion and disobedience, and the thousands, and tens
of thousands, and hundreds of thousands, shouting with one
voice, the expressive Amen ! And what, think you, it was to
us, to stand here so many ages afterwards, and to see and
know that the blessing has been despised, and the curse in all
its force had come upon the chosen people? What wonder
if our eyes ﬁlled with tears, and our hearts were sad and
heavy with the thought, that even as He has done to the
perverse and wicked people, called by His name, so will He
do to us who hear His words, have entered into His covenant,
and promised to obey Him, if we fall away into sloth or forget-
fulness, and do not as He has commanded. “ Heaven and earth
shall pass away, but My words shall never pass away.” Let
us not be high-minded, but fear Him whose justice is inﬁnite,
and who will not spare the impenitent and the disobedient.
We made it a point this morning, to see the city and to visit
the Samaritan Synagogue, in hope of having an opportunity
to inspect the Samaritan Pentateuch, which, as you know, is
of great importance in the estimation of Biblical scholars.
Accordingly, after breakfast we went into Nablus, which,
though it looks well outside, has not many attractions inter-
nally. The houses are generally of stone, the bazaars are
well supplied, the population large, and apparently industrious,
but the streets and lanes are like those in all oriental towns
which I have seen, narrow, crooked, and ﬁlthy. We got
along pretty well, as respects the clamor and abuse, which
this time was unaccompanied by a repetition of yesterday’s

‘ Josh. viii. 30—35.

