464 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

locality, and though it may appear to you rather long, yet as
it is much better and more accurate than any description
which 1 could furnish, I shall beg your permission to quote it
at length. “ Ras el-Ain is a place where are the cisterns called
Solomon’s, supposed, according to the common tradition here-
abouts, to have been made by that great king, as a part of
his rccompense to King Hiram for the supplies of materials
sent by him toward the building of the Temple. They are,
doubtless, very ancient, but yet of a much later date than what
this tradition ascribes to them. That they could not be built
till since Alexander’s time, may be conjectured from this,
amongst other arguments : because the aqueduct, which con-
veys the water from hence to Tyre, is carried over the neck of
land by which Alexander, in his famous siege of this place,
joined the city to the continent; and as the cisterns cannot
well be imagined to be more ancient than the aqueduct, so
one may be sure that the aqueduct cannot be older than the
ground it stands upon. Of these cisterns there are three en-
tire at this day, one about a furlong and a half distant from
the sea, the other two a little farther up. The former is an
octagonal ﬁgure, twenty-two yards in diameter. It is eleva-
ted above the ground nine yards on the south side, and six on
the north ; and within, is said to be of an unfathomable
deepness, but ten yards of line confuted that opinion. Its
wall is of no better a material than gravel and small peb-
bles; but consolidated with so strong and tenacious a cement,
that it seems to be all one entire vessel of rock. Upon the
brink of it you have a walk round, eight feet broad, from
which, descending by one step on the south side, and by two
on the north, you have another walk twenty-one feet broad
All this structure, though so broad at top, is yet made hollow,
so that the water comes in underneath the walks, insomuch,
that 1 could not, with a long red, reach the extremity of the
cavity. The whole vessel contains a vast body of excellent
water, and is so well supplied from its fountain, that, though

