36 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

and that you must ride on for some two hours before you
can actually reach their base. It is not a little curious to
notice how gradually the precise appearance of the Pyramids
unfolds itself to one’s view. As ﬁrst seen from the river,
about six miles distant, they seem to be mere masses of
stone, built up in the shape with which we are familiar, and
presenting no special characteristics on which the eye rests ;*
a nearer approach shows their outline and color more exactly;
and when within a mile, the layers of stone, the rough and
broken sides of the Great Pyramid, and the partially smooth
surface of the Second Pyramid, are distinctly visible. During
this part of the ride, too, when on the sandy plain which has
to be crossed before reaching the usual resting-place, one be-'
gins to comprehend the actual state of things, and looks upon
the broad and elevated rocky basis on which the Pyramids
stand, the heaps of sand and stones scattered about, the small
pyramids, the tombs excavated in the side of the rocks, and
other features of the scene, with feelings of unbounded sur-
prise and almost inexpressible interest.

Leaving our servants to arrange the tent on the plain be-
low, our ﬁrst impulse was to mount over the heaps of sand
and rubbish to the point where the Pyramids begin actually
to rise, which is more than a hundred feet above the highest
level of the Nile’s inundations. As you will suppose, we
were soon surrounded by the Bedawin, who live in the vicin-
ity, and seemed, as it were, to rise out of the ground at our
approach; ere long, too, we experienced the oppressiveness of
their attentions in our behalf, and learned pretty thoroughly
the meaning of the word bulc/ts/zz'sh, which was repeated at

* M. is Vicomte de Chateaubriand appears to have possessed more acute pow—
ers of vision than belong to most of travellers, for he professes to have seen
and distinguished their peculiarities from the Citadel in Cairo l “ Though I was
four leagues (:10 or 12 miles) distant ‘from the Pyramids,” are his words, “ I
seemed to be quite close to them. I could perfectly distinguish, with my naked
eye, the courses of storms and the head ofthe Sphinx rising above the sand.”—
” ”duels in Greece, Palestine, Egypt, 8141.,” p. 410, N. Y. 1814.

