192 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

that a minaret erected on this principle, would have many
advantages; I could even ride up it on horseback: and I
wish that of my new mosk to be built of the same form.’ ”3"

There is little or no difﬁculty attendant upon visiting the
mosksvof Cairo at the present day; and, with the exception
of two of them (viz., the Hassanin and the Ezher), a person
in a Frank dress may freely enter a mask, and look about
him as much as he chooses, without fear of insult or molesta-
tion. For this we have to thank the French, in great meas-
ure; for it is only since their invasion, that the privilege of
even passing before several of the mosks, has been allowed
to Christians and the persecuted Jew. Happily, too, Moham-
med Ali has had sense enough to see, how impolitic is all this
bigotry and intolerance, in which the lower classes delight.
Some two or three days ago, accompanied by Antonio, I set
out to spend a day in looking through the Mohammedan houses
of Worship, visiting ﬁrst the mosk of the Sultan, above alluded
to. The entrance is mean, comparatively speaking, and has
usually about it a number of loungers or idle fanatics, and
beggars, who go as far as they dare, in muttering impreca—
tions upon the “Christian dogs,” and in gazing at them with
countenances fairly lighted up, at times, with malignity and
Pharisaic pride. We walked some little distance through a
rather dark passage-way, till we came to an open doorway,
leading to the inner part of the building. Here we were
stopped by the servant or keeper of the mosk; and before we
were allowed to step over the low railing, and enter, we had
either to take of boots, and go in barefoot, 0r encase our feet,
boots and all, in a pair of heavy reed slippers. I chose the
latter, not feeling it quite safe to spend any time barefoot on
the stone ﬂoor inside. I'Antonio, however, followed the usual
fashion. We now found ourselves in a large, open, square
court, paved, and having in the centre a large fountain, cov-
ered with a dome, and used by the people for ablutions, pre-

"' “Hand-Bookjar Egypt," p. 133.

