122 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

“it throws more light upon the manners and customs of the
Egyptians, than any hitherto discovered.” We did not fail,
as a matter of course, to visit this tomb; and while we were
gazing most intently at the picture of the brick-makers, which
Rosselini has rendered renowned by copying it, and express-
ing a decided opinion respecting its application, we 'felt all
the excitement arising out of the view, which, not Rosselini
alone, but others equally learned and judicious, have adopted.
Certainly there could not be a more striking and apt illustra:
tion of the words of Moses, than is afforded by this remark-
able painting; “the Egyptians made the children of Israel
to serve with rigor; and they made their lives bitter with
hard bondage, in mortar and in brick, and in all manner of
service in the ﬁeld: all their service wherein they made them
serve was with rigor.” (Exod. i. 13, 14.) Whether we con.
our in opinion with such distinguished scholars as Hengsten-
berg, Osburn, Rosselini, and others, who are very decided on
the point of this pictorial representation being intended ex-
pressly to set forth the Jews working as slaves; or whether
we defer to the judgment of Sir G. Wilkinson, Taylor, and
men of that stamp, there can be no doubt, that it is a very
surprising and very wonderful illustration of an important
.part of Scripture history. For myself, as you know, it be-
comes me to speak with the utmost diﬂidence on controverted
points; yet I cannot forbear expressing to you my thorough
conviction, that this is a veritable and trustworthy evidence
.from the monuments of Egypt, in favor of the truth of the
Bible. I have looked at this picture with this feeling; ‘I de-
sire to cherish such feelings ever in my bosom, not “in defi-
ance of logic,” as Wilkinson would have it of those who take
this view, but because the arguments are too many and con-
vincing for me to doubt on the point. Let me quote, in sup-
port of the opinion which I would advocate, ‘the words of the
learned William Osburn, Jr. : after informing us that the pre-
sent is the tomb ofRek-sharé, the chief architect of the temples

