68 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

tediousness of declining life, by seeing thousands laboring
Without end, and one stone, for no purpose, laid upon an-
other; Whoever thou art, that, not content with a moder-
ate condition, imaginest happiness in royal magniﬁcence, and
dreamest that command or riches can feed the appetite of
novelty with perpetual gratiﬁcations, survey the Pyramids,
and confess thy folly !”* .

But a truce to this long discussion. I shall not soon ven-
ture to trespass upon you in a similar way; and I feel that
at this joyous season, when you at home are celebrating the
Christmas holidays, it is too great a tax to impose upon any
one to ask him to wade through the deep and dark waters of
doubt and mystery which, as it were, encompass the whole
land of Egypt. Let me tell you of other things, which, though
more common-place, are not, I trust, less interesting. The
evening and night of the 22d ult. were spent in our tent,
over which waved the beautiful flag of our country. A regu-
lar watch was established, and save some slight disturbance
produced by the braying of a donkey, and the everlasting
chatter of the Arabs, who were awake, and seated round a
ﬁre, the night passed quietly.1’ We arose the next morning
very early, and beheld a most gorgeous sunrise, clear, bright,
unclouded, and shedding a new glory upon those vast struc-
tures'whioh the rays of the sun have illumined day by day
for thousands of years. On breaking up our encampment,
We had rather an amusing, but somewhat vexatious scene.
Mr. and Mrs. B., who, I am sorry to say, will not proceed
up the Nile this'season, were going to visit, on the 23d, the
Pyramids of Sakhara and that neighborhood, and conse-
quently Wished not only to retain the services of the janis-

, * Dr. Johnson’s “Rasselas,” ch. xxxii.

1' I found it rather cool, almost cold, in the night; the thermometer at 5 P. M.
stood at 67°; in the middle of the night, 50°; and the next morning at '7, 52°.
This, I believe, is about the usual range: Mr. Lane remarks, (vol. i. p. 12) that
“ a penetrating cold is felt in Egypt when the thermometer of Fahrenheit is be-
low 60°.”

