5'8 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

a long record, in Egyptian characters, of the sums expended
in the progress of the work, for the radishes, onions and gar-
lic conSurned by the workmen. Truly, a most unique appro-
priation of the face of so grand a monument. Of the Second
and Third Pyramids, Herodotus speaks in brief terms, assert-
ing, that though the body of Cheops is’ said to be deposited in
the Great Pyramid, the Pyramid of Cephrenes had no chairi-
bers inside, and, of course, no passages similar to those in his
brother’s burial place: the mausoleum of Mycerinus, he re-
lates, was considerably smaller than that of his father Cheops,
and was in part constructed of Ethiopian stones. He gives
the‘ size of these vast structures as follows, having declared
that he had measured them: Height of the Great Pyramid,
eight hundred feet; length of its sides, eight hundred feet.
The Second Pyramid, he states, is less than that of his bro-
ther’ s, and not so high by forty feet. The Third Pyramid
he makes three hundred feet 1n height.

It 1s not necessary that I detain you with an abstract of
the historical statements made by Diodorus, Strabo and Pliny,
for, substantially, they agree with what has been drawn from
Herodotus. Diodorus (B. C. 59) gives the name of the
founder of the Great Pyramid as Chembis or Chemmis, and
its height as six hundred, and its breadth seven hundred feet.
Strabo (BO 30) speaks of the opening near the centre of
the First Pyramid, closed by a stone which can be removed,
and gives the‘height six hundred and twenty-ﬁve feet, and the
breadth six hundred feet. rHe- also mentions the fragments of
stone scattered about, resembling lentils and barley, which he
supposes may be the petriﬁed remains of the workmen’s food.
Pliny, (A.D..'70) stigmatizing the Pyramids as an idle and
silly display of royal wealth, mentions “the Well” in the in-
terior of the Great Pyramid, relates some foolish stories of the
means used in the construction of such vast ediﬁces, and gives
the height of the ﬁrst as seven hundred and twenty-ﬁve, and
Its breadth eight hundred and eighty-three feet.

