THE DESOLATION on SAMARIA. 425

pride of Ephraim,” and declares that “the glorious beauty
which is on the head of the fat valley, shall be a fading flower,
and as the hasty fruit before the summer ;”* for not unlike
a crown is this round and picturesque mount, girted about
with a circlet of hills and beautiﬁed with fruitful ﬁelds, and
gardens, and ﬂowers. It required but little imagination to
induce us tobelieve that in its palmy days it was one of the
most beautiful and noble-looking cities in the world: it was
founded, as you will recollect, by Omri, king of Israel, who
was contemporaneous with Asa, king of Judah, and Elijah,
the great prophet of the Lord, between nine hundred and a
thousand years before Christ ,1” but now, alas for the pride of
man, it is like the faded ﬂower, and its wealth, beauty and
power are all gone; the hill has been ploughed as a ﬁeld, and
where once the lofty palace and the gorgeous structure stood
in all their magniﬁcence, where the populous streets and
the thousands of inhabitants gave token‘ of life, energy and
power, now naught is found but the few broken columns half
covered with earth, and the scanty remains of other days amid
the trees, and ﬁelds, and gardens, and peasants’ huts. We
rode up the hill by a steep and winding path, with consider-
able expectations, and passing the lowering villagers without
stopping to parley with them, we hastened to the top of the
mount to gaze awhile at the splendid scene which there grati-
ﬁes the traveller. “ We stood in the very centre of a mag-
niﬁcent panorama. To the north-east and south our horizon
was bounded by mountains, enriched with cultivation and
villages; towards the west our eye admitted of the eye rang-
ing even to the Mediterranean. The valleys which girted
the mountain, as well as the mountain itself, are luxuriantly
overgrown with trees, especially olives and fig-trees. Around

* Is. xxyiii. 1, 4.

f “And Omri bought the hill Samaria of Shemer for two talents of silver,
and built on the hill, and called the name of the city which he built, after the
name of Shemer, owner of the hill, Samaria." 1 Kings, xvi. 24.

