240 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

fully do I record the fact, that we met with no mishap, and
suffered no loss whatever, during our entire journey from
Cairo to Gaza.

Our route by way of E1 Arish, will not require any very
lengthened description, and I shall simply call your attention
to a few points, which, I hope, will interest you. Welleft
Cairo, as I stated above, on the afternoon of March 20th, and
made that day, only as far as ancient Heliopolis or On, now
called Matarieh, about eight miles from the metropolis. Here
we encamped, having in full view the lofty obelisk, which, as
we had visited it on a former occasion, we did not now stop
to examine. The Wind blew quite strongly from the north,
and at night I found myself cold and uncomfortable. Having
sent back to the city for one or two articles which had been
forgotten, we arose early the next morning and got under
way, in‘ as good season as we could; though as it was the
ﬁrst morning, there was more than ordinary delay in striking
the tent, arranging the camels’ loads, &0. Our general course
was a little to the cast of north, and for several days we were
skirting that portion of Egypt, where, no doubt, was the land
of Goshen. At various times during the day, we saw irn~
mense swarms of locusts, which were of a light, yellowish
color, about two and a half inches in length, and gave the sky
semething of the appearance which it presented in a snow-
storm; and we were struck with the marked contrast be-
tween the desert, in all its waste and dreary loneliness on the
one hand, and the rich ﬁelds of green grass and grain on the
other. At various times, too, we thought we saw reason to
suppose, that the desert tract, over which we were passing,
had been once under cultivation ; for it is an established fact,
that the land now rendered fertile by the Nile, could not sup-
port more than half the population of ancient Egypt; and it
is a necessary inference, that in earlier days, before conquest
and misrule had brought ruin upon Egypt, much more of
what is now the desert was included in the cultivated. and

