VALUE on WATER IN THE EAST. 359

the enclosure, or whether, in the lapse of time, the ruins may
have formed a mound or slight elevation around the former
level of the summit; but, either way, it is of no great conse-
quence.

After spending an hour or more in this interesting occupa-
tion, we descended the mountain and turned off to the west.
For some distance our course was along the hill-sides and
through the valleys which abound in this region: a part of
our way was through a very deep and very lovely ravine,
which was rendered all the more attractive because of the
care and skill bestowed upon its cultivation, and the sweet,
clear, and babbling brook which ﬂowed through its midst.
At all times, water is refreshing to the eye as well as to the
body, but nowhere does it appear more delightful, nowhere
is one more deeply impressed with the value of this greatest
of blessings, than here in the East, when suddenly the trav-
eller comes upon the sparkling fountain, or a stream of pure
water, gliding along fraught with countless mercies to the
sons of men. We saw, at no great distance from the point
where we ﬁrst met with this beautiful rivulet, the remains
of a large reservoir; and a number of women were occupied
in washing of clothes by the water’s edge.* I was much
gratiﬁed by the kind and cheerful manner with which they
brought and offered to us water to drink out of their earthen
jars, an offering the most acceptable which just then we could
have received, since we had not tasted a drop from the time
that we had left Jerusalem unto the present moment, owing to
the carelessness of our dragoman, who had forgotten to bring
it with him for our expedition. I may take occasion. here, as
not inappropriate, and certainly deeply ﬁxed in my memory

“ Dr. Robinson’s suggestion'is most probably correct; he says: “ If we are'
to look anywhere in this quarter for Etam, which was decorated by Solomon,
with gardens and streams of water, and fortiﬁed by Rehoboam, along with
Bethlehem and Tekoa; and whence, too, according to the :Rabbins, water was
carried by an aqueduct to Jerusalem; I know of no site so probable as this
spot." (See 2 Chr. xi. 6.)—“ Biblical Researches,” vol. ii. p. 168.

