,, gramme . AT' ESNEH- 103

be‘evill, what a sadpicturedo they present! Hardly’any of,»
them‘know aught, even of the false religiOn of the-impostor,‘
whose name ‘serves.to characterize them and thousands of'
others: seldom 'do the men pretend to pray, and the women,"
as, indeed,,is the case everywhere, under the detestable sys‘l.
temwhich degrades them to the iOW’eSt,“ possible level, never
pray; and as they are never expected to. have, so they never
in reality have, anyyreligion of any sortﬁ‘ Q, isZ not this IE,
matter to move the hearth and bedew the,eye_s with tears !, is
there not reason for every Christian man, and woman, and
child, to cry earnestly to God, to send help and lighten the
darkness of myriads like these'

011 this topic, however, I may not here enlarge, perhaps
at another time I may resume the subject, and give you;
more in detail, the impressions made upon my mind by actual
contact with the Mohammedan religion, as exhibited in the
lives and conduct of the Egyptians. At present, the pbjects
of interest along the Nile claim our attention, and. I purpose
to address you from several of the most important points, as
we descend the river, which, though contrary to What may-
appear the natural- and proper order, 1s rendered necessary by
the fact, that in ascending the Nile, we have left nearly-
everything to be examined at subsequent times, on our jour-
ney downward. I may mention, however, In this place, that
as we came up we stopped for part of a day at Esneh, which
is about a hundred miles north of Aswan, and took a look at
the ruins of a vast temple, of which only the portico: remains
freerfrom the mounds of rubbishand the huts of the villagers.
The portico is of. late date, containing simply the names of
some of the Caesars, as Tiberius, Vespasian, Trajan, doc. I

1‘ The statement is literally true in respect to the fellaliin of Egypt. Occasion-
ally, it is true that among the higher closses in the cities some Pharisaic old lady
will now and then make a great display 111 going through the required prayers; but
the mass, even of the best instructed, neither know nor care anything about the

matter, and it is a sad truth, as Mr. Lane expressly 'asserts, that " very/2w W0<
gran in Egypt even pray at home. ”7—, -—See “ JlIadqm Egyptians}! vol. L p 114.

