230 :aevrvr AND‘ THE HOLY LAND.- .

many are fatigued excessively with the motion so unlike any
thing else“in the'world'; and many, ﬁnding it very much
easier than they expected, are delighted with it from its now
elty,“and break forth into praises of the camel and camel rid-
ing. For myself, I must' say, that I had anticipated great
hardship, much greater ‘thanJ experience warranted: I had
often in Cairo, and various parts ‘of Egypt, looked with special
interest upon the trains of camels which I had seen, and had
endeavored to get as good an idea as I could of the effect which
their rather awkward gait was likely to produce ‘upon' peri-
sons like myself not very well ﬁtted for undergoing orgreat fa-
tigue; but it was not till I had actually mounted and had
tried several days’ travel, that I understood what a camel’ is,
and ”what a serious undertaking it is for an invalid to get
upon his back with a long journey before him. .In general, I
have found it very hard Work, but as I did not suffer in the
way that I had anticipated or to the extent to which I had
been led to‘ Suppose, I cannot in justice speak of it as either
unendurable, or on the whole unpleasant.

' The Arabian came], as you' know, has a large hump upon
his hack,* which would seem to forbid the idea of attempting
to mount him; ’To obviate this difﬁculty, a large pack saddle
of straw is ﬁtted on his back, so a‘s‘to raise his sides, so to
speak, to the Klevel of his hump: on top of this saddle a Wood.
en frame-work is placed,'by means of which, loads of mer-

mannet, and, according to my experience, much more veraciously. The camel
is “commonly represented as. patient; but if so, it is the patience ofstupidity.
They are rather exceedingly impatient, and utter loud cries of indignation when
receiving their loads, and not seldom, on being made to kneel down. They are
also obstinate, and frequently vicious ..... At all times, the camel eats and
drinks little, and secretes little; he is a cold-blooded, heavy, sullen animal
having little feeling, and little susceptibility for pain ..... There is nothing
graceful or sprightly 1n any camel, old or young; all is misshapen, ungainly,
and awkward. ” -—“ Biblical Researches,” vol. ii. pp G33, G34.

. " The Bactrian species has two hunches or humps, one on the shoulders, and
the other on the croup. His height is said to be considerably greater than that

of the Arabian camel. K

