254 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

so God left various tribes and nations in their midst, “to
prove Israel by them, to know whether they would hear'lren
unto the commandments of the Loan, which He commanded
their fathers by the hand of Moses.”at Among those expressly
enumerated as thus left, were “the five lords of the Philis-
tines and all the Cauaanites, and the Sidonians, and the
Hivites that dwelt in Mount Lebanon, from Mount Baal-
Hermon unto the entering in of Hamath :” and though Ju-
dah took Gaza, with the coast thereof, and Aslrelon, with the
coast thereof, and Ekron, with the coast thereof; and though
the Lord was with Judah, so that he expelled the inhabitants
of the mountainous districts, yet he could not drive out the
inhabitants of the valley, because they had chariots of iron ;+
though, too, in later times, David subdued the Philistiues,
and extended his dominion more widely than had been pos-
sible, either in former or subsequent times, still the Philistines
remained, and frequently prevailed over the children of Israel.

About nine, A.M.,$ we passed the village of Beit Hanun,
near to the road on our right: we saw frequent evidences of
the heavy rains which occasionally deluge a part of Syria,
in the deep gullies worn in the plains, at intervals, along the
road-side. At ten, we crossed a bridge over a mountain tor-
rent, with adeep sandy bed. On Robinson’s map, it is called
Wady Simsim, and is marked as occasionally dry in nearly
its whole extent: when we crossed it, there was not much
water in the stream. During the day, we had considerab’re

* Judges iii. 4. 1' Judges i. 18, 19.

:1: In travelling in Syria, all computations of distance are made by the time
occupied in the journey. Camels average from two to two and a half miles
per hour; horses frequently perform more, especially when the traveller chooses
to leave the luggage train, and urge his steed forward ; in this way three miles,
and even four, may be gone over in an hour. But it is well to remember that,
with slight exception, the whole journey through Syria is performed at a horse’s
usual walking pace, which gives on an average rather less than three miles per
hour. In speaking, too, ofthe distance of one place from another, the people
always say, it is so many hours—not so many miles—to the point inquired for.
Of course, I shall be compelled to adopt the same mode ofspcech.

