SERVICES OF TIIE coP'rrc CHURCH. 211‘

lated in What we know of those of the ancient Church. Un-
til the Sunday just past, I had found no convenient oppor-
tunity of attaining my desire; but yesterday, the 18th, being
the Fourth Sunday in Lent, I visited the church where the"
patriarch; assists in the services, and was present during the
long and to me tedious performance of their established ritual:
I think yen will not be displeased to have somewhat of a de-
scription of what I witnessed on this occasion.

The» services commence at daybreak; consequently, at
about half-past ﬁve, A.M., accompanied by an intelligent
young Abyssinian, who speaks French very tolerably, I went
to the church. The entrance, like all which I have seen in
Egypt, was through a narrow, winding passage, which gives
one a mean idea of the ediﬁce into which he is going. Seve-
ral beggars, principally women and cripples, were stationed
along the sides of the passage, and were very importunate
for alms. On entering the ﬁrst compartment, I found quite
a number of the poorer people'already assembled, and was
surprised to hear a loud buzzing noise of persons talking
throughout the church, walking to and fro, and appearing to
have very little reverence for the building in which they were.
The ﬂoor was covered with matting, and occasionally pieces
of carpeting; and I noticed that every one who came in took
off his slippers, and, placing them sole to sole, ‘as the M04
hammedans do in the mosks, continued barefoot during the
entire 'service. The divisions and ornaments of the interior
of the church, were nearly the same as I mentioned in speak
ing of my visit to Es- Siout. The ﬁrst and second compart‘
ments were devoted to the uses of the congregation generally,
the women being in a place by themselves, entirely disoon
nected with that used by the men. The church appeared tc'
me to be nearly square,“ with a deep'reces‘s at the end, oppo-
site the entrance, containing the ohancel, altar, 650., and
separated from the rest of the ediﬁce by a close partition,
rather handsomely inlaid with ivory, and other substances

