VIA DOLOROSA. 287

Bartlett, entitled “Walks about Jerusalem,” the elaborate.
volumes of Mr. Williams, and Dr. Robinson, on the same
subject, the striking and ingenious, but not convincing, treat
tise of Mr. Fergusson on the “Ancient Topography of J eru-
salem,” and other volumes, easily accessible, supply—as you
know—the fullest information, as well on those matters which I
shall passover, as on those upon which I shall venture to speak.
In the present letter, I must beg you to accompany me to
some of the sacred spots outside of the walls of the Holy
City, where there are attractions, I think, not inferior to any
Within the city itself.

Imagine yourself, then, my dear S., on a bright sunny
spring morning, to be with me at our Hotel, ready for a walk
about Zion, and a visit to some of its touching localities. We
are not 'far from the Damascus Gate, but we will not pass
through it at this time. Let us rather proceed through the
narrow street or lane, leading towards the heart of the city.
In a few minutes we come to the Via Dolarosa, and turning
off towards the East, We traverse this steep and rugged way,
ﬁlled with thoughts of Him, whose sufferings and death were
for our sins, and who, for our sakes, endured the cross, de-
spising the shame. Tommaso, our guide and attendant, points
out to us the various spots which tradition has ﬁxed upon in
connection with our Lord’s bearing the cross, sinking under
it with fatigue and exhaustion, the offices of love shown Him
by some of His disciples, die. ; we may not, it is true, believe
all that he has learned and tells us on these points; but we
may remember to advantage, that our Divine Lord did un-
dergo all the pain and torture so touchingly related of Him
in the Gospels, and probably did pass somewhere near here
when He was led out to he cruciﬁed. We soon reach, after
a turning or two, the gate in the Eastern wall, commonly,
‘but I believe wrongly, called “St. Stephen’s Gate,” passing
ﬁrst under an archway where, according to tradition, Pontius
Pilate showed to the people our Saviour, wearing the crown of

