412 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

mouth of the well itself. It is dug in a ﬁrm rock, and eon-
tains about three yards in diameter and thirty-ﬁve in depth
ﬁve of which we found full of water. This confutes a story
commonly told to travellers who do not take pains to examine
the well, viz.: that it is dry all the year round, except on
the anniversary of that day on which our blessed Saviour
sat upon it, but then bubbles up with abundance of water!”1e

Among the deeply touching localities ’ of the Holy Land,
J aeob’s Well holds a prominent place; and we lingered here
in this now desolate spot, and strived to realize the eventful
story recorded by St. John. It was a day—nownearlytwo
thousand years ago—fraught with the tenderest compassion
and love on the part of the Divine Saviour towards the souls
of men, when wearied with journeying under the hot sun of
Syria, at the hour of noon He reached the well of the great
patriarch. Faint and fatigued with exertion, and desiring
rest, He sat down on the Side of the well’s mouth to rest; His
disciples had gone away into the city to buy food and provide
things needful for their journey: as He sat thus alone by the
well-side, a Samaritan woman, most probably not from the
city of Shechem or Sychar, but a hamlet nearer by, came to
draw water for her domestic needs. She saw that He was
a Jew, and knowing that fact, and remembering the enmity
subsisting between her countrymen and the Jews, she did not
address Him, nor would she have extended to Him any of the
civilities and courtesies so common in the East, and so cheer-
ing to the weary and way-worn ”traveller. She was well
aware too of the inveterate hatred and scorn of the Jews for
the Samaritans, and she thought that He who now was rest-
ing His wearied person by the well-side would only look at
her with dislike if not disgust; but she was ignorant who He
was that she was now privileged to meet. Jesus, therefore,
perceiving that the woman had not offered the water to His
parched and thirsty lips, said unto her, “ Give Me to drink.”

‘ Maundrell's “Journey,” &c., March 24th.

