ARGUMENT FROM TRADITION. 333

City fell externally into deep valleys ; now, this would be
positively incorrect with respect to the Lower City, had that
lain where Robinson assumes.”* We may conclude, then,
1. That the Tower of Hippicus occupied the site of the north-
west (or perhaps the north-east) tower of the modern citadel; 2.
That the place of the Gennath was some distance to the east of
that tower, near, probably, the south extremity of the present
bazaars ; 3. That the second wall ran hence in anortherly direc-
tion, excluding the Holy Sepulchre, and, bending to the west,
curved round by the Damascus Gate, and so on to the Tower
of Antonia; 4. That Akra is the hill to the north-west of the
Temple Mount; 5. That the Tyropoeon is the Mill Valley,
extending from the Damascus Gate to the Pool of SiloamJ‘

If you have had the patience to follow me through this dry,
but necessary abstract of the topographical argument relative
to the site of the Holy Sepulchrc, you will, I trust, agree
with me in opinion that there is no need to abandon this 10-
cality, so far as appears from anything yet urged against it;
that the probabilities rather favor than otherwise, the view
that this spot was outside the city wall in the time of our
Saviour; and that, as Mr. Bartlett acknowledges, “on topo-
graphical grounds we can see no sufﬁcient objection to oppose-
to its” genuineness, and the credibility of the ancient tradition
in its support.

We now come to the strong and convincing argument de-
rived from history and very early and uniform tradition,
This is the more necessary to examine, and the more impor.
tant in its bearing, because, as you will perceive, even though
the church of the Holy Sepulchre may be so situate as not
to have been included within the second wall, still, after all,
it might not be the true site of the cruciﬁxion and entomb-
ment; and it is possible that Dr. Robinson might be wrong
on topographical grounds, and still this locality also not be

* “Travels in the East," 1:. 148.
1‘ Williams’s “ Holy City," vol. ii. p. 64.

