1'31an or! TRavan. 407

an adieu, and went to their homes; Besides these triﬂing
incidents, I was not a little interested in the traditionary re-
tation, which sets forth that it was here that the Virgin Mother,
not ﬁnding her Son, as she had hoped, somewhere in the com-
pany which was journeying like ourselves towards Nazareth,
turned back to the Holy City, and with Joseph went in sor-
row and apprehension to search for Him. It was a meet and
ﬁtting subject of meditation for us that evening, to call to mind
the incidents related in Holy Scripture of our Most Blessed
Lord and Saviour during the days that He was subject untq
His earthly parent, and His reputed father, Joseph the carpen-
ter of Nazareth; But I will not weary you with a recital of
our musings on this occasion: I will only hope and trust that
they were proﬁtable to us in more ways than one.*

We rose the next morning at daybreak, having passed a
quiet night, and though rather longer than usual in getting
off, we were, nevertheless, in the saddle about half-past six.
The ﬁrst morning after leaving a city, has always more or
less of delay and vexation connected with it: the mules are
not yet well broken in; their loads are not clearly portioned
out; the mukri, or drivers and attendants of the mules and
horses, are not yet perfectly familiar with their new charge;
something is sure to be mislaid ; too much load to be got on
to one, too little on to another; the tent apparatus and the
kitchen affairs do not pack as well as they ought; the saddles
or bridles or stirrups of the horses do'not altogether suit the
gentlemen ; and withaLthere is a bustle and confusion which
never helps work forward, but the reverse. We having six
mules and four horses, experienced a number of these trials
on the morning of Wednesday last; but, after all, as our

"‘ Dr. Robinson’s notice of El—Bireh is interesting; he rates the population at
700, all Mohammedans, and points out some traces ofthe antiquity of the place,
particularly the remains ofe ﬁne 'old church with pointed arches. which was
probably built by the Knights Templars, who at one time owned this village.
The houses in the town are mostly low,‘and in some cases, half under ground.
-—-“ Btbi Rea,” V01, ii. p, 130, 131.

