CHARACTER OF THE RUINS AT LUXOR. 133

ruins. Not only are the huts of the fellahin built in and about
the temple, but heaps of ﬁlth lie in every direction; pigeon,-
hOuses are stuck up against the walls; different rooms, ﬁlled
once with splendid sculpture and elegant decorations, are now
used for stables for cattle, and disgust one by the ordurc which
it is necessary to encounter in order to inspect some interesting
point ;‘ and beside all, what I have several times noted before,
the living objects, in the way of men, women and childrerﬁ
are scarcely less repulsive to one’s feelings and wishes at such
a time as this. These remarks are true of every part of the
ruins at Luxor, and if I do not enlarge upon the annoyances
we met with, you will not suppose that I felt them any the
less keenly. Following my guide, I made my way through
several passages and huts, and had a good chance to inspect
an Arab school, which was as noisy as any of the primary
institutions in our good city of New York. Mounting up-
ward, now through a fellah’s hut, now over the top of hab-
itations into which one can look without difﬁculty, and now
clambering up a narrow stone staircase, half in ruins, we ar-
rived at the top of the large pyramidal towers which form the
grand entrance to the temple, and face northerly in the direc-
tion of Karnakﬁ“ I sat for some time on the broad surface at
the top of this noble gateway, admiring the scene which is here
spread out to the view. Perhaps nowhere could one obtain a
better position in which to look abroad over the grand plain
where Thebes once stood in all her glory, and in which to
muse over her fallen greatness, and her majesty even in ruins.
I noticed here the names of many travellers, among which
were those of Prince “ Puckler Muskau,” “W. Pottinger,”
&c., and several countrymen, as “ E. Robinson, 1838,” “E.
Bergh, D. Austin, N. Y., 1841,” &c. The mania for writ-
ing names has not died out, even in 1849, since, though the

* This propylcn is computed to be two hundred feet in length, and nearly
sixty feet high. I measured some of the coping stones of the towers, and found
them to he seven feet in width by nearly double that in length.

