EXTERIOR. 0F JERUSALEM. 307

on the north, and fortifying it in such wise as would have ren-
dered it impregnable. As we advance, it is worth while to
observe that the present walls are built, to some extent, upon
the solid rock, which rises here and there considerably above
the surface, and that the rocks have been scarped—I believe
that is the term—and the fosse, or regularly constructed ditch,
for the most part wholly neglected. In a military point of
view, of course, I am unable to speak of the walls; but I
have heard the sentiment expressed, that they would prove of
little service against an invading army well supplied with ar-
tilleryﬁ" The side on which we now are has always been the
most vulnerable, and from the time of the Romans down-
ward, Jerusalem has been attacked and taken from'thenorth-
erly approach; there seems no reason to doubt that the walls
could easily be breached, and the city entered, even by a
small, well~appointed force. After a little while we come to
the northwestern angle of the wall, which, as shown on the
plan, appears to project a considerable distance, as if for the
purpose of including some spot useful in a military point of
view. We shall see, by and by, what hearing this part of the
Wall has on the question of the verity of the site generally
believed to be that of the Holy Sepulchre. Following the
course of the wall, we soon after reach the Bethlehem or
J aﬂ'a gate, and have in full view the large, massive fortress or
citadel, which, doubtless, properly manned, would be a place
of very great strength. The foundations seem to be of very
early date, and at one corner you notice the square, solidly

* Mr. Williams quotes the opinion of Lieutenant-Colonel Alderson of the
Corps ofRoyaI'Engineers, to whom we are indebted for the Ordnance Survey,
made in 1841. Speaking of the Tower of David, he says, “It would require
heavy artillery to breach it. The walls too of the city are sufﬁciently strong to
require something more than ﬁeld artillery to effect a breach in them} Whilst
their position, surrounded on every side by mountains, and diﬂicult of approach
for heavy artillery, gives to the fortiﬁcations which surround the Holy City an
importance which their ﬁrst appearance would not seem to justify."—“Haly
City," vol. i. p. 444.

