lNTERIOR OF THE GAMA TAYLUN- 193

vious to prayer. On each side of this court are colonnades,
those on three of the sides consisting of two rows of_ columns,
about sixty feet deep, and that on the eastern end, of ﬁve
rows, all supporting pointed arches. On two sides, however,
as I was informed, the colonnades have been converted into
houses, by order of the government. The mask itself is said
to be built on the plan of the Kaaba at Mecca. Crossing the
court, we came to that portion of the building, which is prin-
cipally used for the place of prayer. It is more spacious than
the other parts of the mosk, and is divided into three aisles,
by rows of columns, parallel With the outer wall. Mats are
spread over the entire space, and the worshippers go through
with their devotions, high and low, rich and poor, all together,
without distinction of classes—a feature of Mohammedanism,
which reminded me rather painfully of the different notion
of things, which Protestant Christians are apt to entertain in
arranging their houses of prayer. In the centre of the ex-
terior wall is the mehrah or niche, which points out the direc-
tion of Mecca ; towards which, as you know, every Moham-
medan turns when he says his prayers. To the right of the
niche is the pulpit, which is about ten feet high, I suppose,
and reached by means of a wooden "staircase, remarkable
rather for solidity than beauty. “ Opposite the mehrab, in the
central part of the portico, there is a platform (called ‘dik-
keh’), surrounded by a parapet, and supported by small col-
umns; and by it, or before it, are one or two seats, having a
kind of desk, to bear a volume of the koran, from which a
chapter is read to the congregation. The walls in the masks
generally are quite plain, being simply whitewashed; but in
some of them, the lower part of the wall of the place of
prayer is lined with 'colored marble, and the other part orna-
mented with various devices, executed in stucco, but mostly
with texts of the koran (which form long friezes, having a
pleasant effect), and never with the representation of anything

that has life.” In one corner of this part of the ediﬁce, is the
9

