6,6 EGyPT. AND THE HOLY. LAND-

we know the ancient priests of Egypt were greatly addicted.
Weight seems to,be added to this opinion by the fact thatthe
Pyramids uniformly face the four cardinal points, which could
‘hardly have been the effect of chance, and almost demon;-
strates the advance in science of the ancient Egyptians. A
recent Frenchwriter’x‘ has devoted a good deal of learning to
the advocacy of the theory, that the Pyramids were erected
forthe purpose ,of preventing the encroachmentsjof the sands
of the desert on this _side of the valley of the Nile: by the
kindness of a friend and fellow-voyager I have been permitted
{to peruse this volume, but though interesting, it is not to my
‘niindwat all convincing. Mr. Agnew, an English scholar, in
the year 1838, broached a novel theory; he supposed that
the Egyptians were so scientiﬁc as to have attained to a
knowledge of squaring the circle, and that they “sought in
the appropriate ﬁgure of the Pyramid to perpetuate a portion
of their geometrical science.” Dr. Shaw, and some few others,
think that these vast erections were used for the purpose of
worshipping iii/them the deity which was typiﬁed in the out-
ward form, of the Pyramid, that is, that they were temples
rather than, anything else. Not to dwell upon other theories,
1 may mention that the one most usually adopted, and which
has the, least diﬂiculties connected with it, is that which is.
derived from the ancients, and which makes them to have
been built for tombs'or sepulchres.‘ While I am not thor-
oughly convinced on the point, I must, confess that this is, on
the whole, the, most probable supposition ; it is not unlikely
too, that they may have subserved another, or other purposes,
and thus, though primarily intended as tombs, may still have
been used forscientiﬁc purposes. Such is the opinion of Sir
_Gardner Wilkinson, than whom there is no higher authority.
“_I do, not presumey(he says) to explain the real object for
which the Pyramids were built, but feel persuaded that they
served for tombs, and were‘also intended for astronomical

* M. de Persigny, “pa lavdcstina‘tion des- Pyramidcs,” 6m. 1845.

