BELZONI’S TOMB. 117

a light is placed in the inside of it. It is minutely sculptured
within and without with several hundred ﬁgures, which do
not exceed two inches in height, and represent, as I suppose,
the whole of the funeral procession and ceremonies relating
to the deceased. I cannot give an adequate idea of this beau-
tiful and invaluable piece of antiquity, and can only say that
nothing has been brought into Europe from Egypt that can
be compared with it. The cover was not there; it had been
taken out and broken into several pieces, which we found in
digging before the ﬁrst entrance.” It was not our good for-
tune to see this elegant specimen of ancient workmanship, it
having been removed many years ago to London for exhibi-
tion; but this was comparatively of little consequence; for
there is so much to interest and astonish the visitor, that he
hardly ﬁnds time to regret the absence of any one object,
however important. In truth, I feel that the amount of
decoration, in the Way of sculpture, painting, hieroglyphics,
&c., is so vast, and requires both so much more knowledge
of art, and so much greater space than are at my command,
that I am quite ashamed to deal so unfairly by you and by
this wonderful catacomb, as to comprise within a few sen-
tences all that I dare now undertake to say respecting it.
Yet so it is, and you will have to be indebted to imagination
for very much that no words of mine can adequately deline-
ate. The numerous chambers, ﬁlled with hieroglyphics, of
which Wilkinson speaks in detail; the freshness of color;
the variety of design ; the interest attaching to many of the
ﬁgures and subjects, particularly those which are said to rep-
resent a procession of four different people or races, red,
white, black, and white again, four by four, followed by Ra,
“ the sun ;”i the drawings in one of the halls which have never

"' Compare Russell’s “Ancient and [Modern Egypt," p. 223.

1' This is the View advanced by Sir Gardner Wilkinson, who thinks that the
{but ted ﬁgures are Egyptians, the white, a nation of the north, the black, a
southern people, and the other white ﬁgures an eastern tribe, all intended to

