298 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

eration that, as Dr. Robinson says; “one of the very earliest
traditions on record” points out this portion of the Mount of
Olives as the place of the ascension, we shall, I am .quite
sure, have no doubt, of the trustworthiness of the tradition,
though pronounced by Robinson to he “obviously false,” and
of the verity of our Lord’s ascension from this spotﬂ"

While here, let us, by all means, mount the ruined min-a-
ret, attached to the deserted mosh close at hand; for from its
summit is one of the ﬁnest views, as well 013 the Holyr City,
as of the vicinity of Jerusalem, which can anywhere be ob-
tained. Long may we gaze at the prospect at this genial
hour, when the, bright sun is declining in the west; and as'
ﬁlled with varied emotions, we look upon the Holy City,,in
all its beauty and sublimity, which caused the psalmist to
style it “the perfection of beauty,” we may catch something
ofthe poetic enthusiasm of the host under the noble Godfrey,
on ﬁrst beholding Zion’s consecrated heights :—

” Lol tower’d Jerusalem salutes the eye!
A thousand pointing ﬁngers tell the tale ;
». ‘Jerusalem l' a thousand voices cry,

‘All hail, Jerusalem 1’ hill, down and dale,
Catch the glad sounds, and shout, ‘Jerusalem, all hail !’ ”1'

Behold and see what a scene is this! “ Immediately be-
low, even to the opposite brink of the Valley Kedron, Jeru-
salem lies spread out before us. The strong outlines of‘ the
Castle of David are seen on the western horizon. The ‘cupo-
las of the convents of the church of the Holy Sepulchre, the
slender minaret on the northeast hill of the city, one after

* I am happy to ﬁnd that Tischendorﬂ' accords with thisview, in opposition, as
he declares, to that ot‘Dr. Robinson: after quoting the passages from St. Luke,
he says, “ In my opinion, these words are to be understood no otherwise than
that Christ ascended into heaven at the point whence the Apostles returned into
the city. The position of this chapel admirably harmonizes with this view.”—‘
“ Travels in. the East,” p. 173 ; see also' Williams‘s “Holy City,” vol. ii. p. 2139'
446; and Robinson’s “Biblical Researches," vol. 1. p. 375, 405. . ' '

TTasso’s “Jerusalem Delivered,” Cant. iii. 3. l

