342 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

us to inquire, on what grounds we think that they would lie
and deceive, or Why they would not scorn such things with
as much indignation as the very best among us? it would
prove very proﬁtable to us all at the present day to look
around and see if there be not now as much, or nearly as
much corruption. dissension, quarrelling, superstition, and
things of that sort, among those called Christians, as can
fairly be charged upon the early professors of the truth as it
is in Jesus? It would take down our conceit a little to look
forward into the future, and imagine how readily the coming
generations will ﬂing words of contempt upon us and impute
evil motives to our actions, because a thousand years hence,
they will think themselves wiser than we in those very mat-
ters of which we think that we know everything, and which
we do know far better than they ever can. And, remem-
bering these things, let me ask, why should any man, when
more than ﬁfteen centuries have rolled away, and when we
know little more than the name of one out of many of the

redeem captives, and numerous other kind oﬁices, proving them to be deserving
of the love and gratitude of mankind." This is of the third century: of the
next he relates, “ the untiring zeal of the bishops and other holy men, the pure
and devout lives which many of the Christians exhibited, the translations of the
Sacred Volume," doc. (vol. i. p. 188, 274.) Gieseler having pointed out various
corruption: of the truth during the period from AD. 193—324, which are admit<
ted by every one to have had more or less sway, says, nevertheless, “ While we
cannot overlook these moral defects, we still ﬁnd in the Church a living Christi-
anity prevailing, and in consequence thereof, ﬁne moral phenomena which are
sought for in vain out of its pale at this period.” (vol. i. p. 265.) For a more
favorable, and I believe more just, view of the characters and lives of the early
followers of Christ Jesus, let me refer you to the learned Dr. Cave’s “Primitive
Christianity.“ Dr. Burton, also, in his ” Lectures upon the Ecclesiastical His-
tory of the First Three Centuries"—a very valuable work—gives more credit to
the early Christians for their knowledge, goodness, honesty, doc, than the Ger-
man school are ever willing to allow; one sentence I beg to quote: “ The ﬁery
trial of ten years (the Diocletian persecution) would naturally purify the Church
from corrupt or useless members; and if we were to ﬁx upon any time since the
days of the Apostles, when the lives of Christians were likely to win the hearts
of the heathen, it would probably be the time when the death of Maximinu
placed the whole of the empire at the disposal of Constantine.” (p. 652.)

