CAMEL RIDING IN GENERAL: 231

chandise are secured upon the: crime], or heavy panniers are"
hung upon its sides. The arrangement for riding is a little:
different; the wooden frame has two short, round pieces of f
wood, reaching up in' front about eight inches and the same}
in the rear, making a surface or saddle for the rider about two:
feet in length between these short posts: here are placed cush-r
ions, or something of the sort, on which the traveller sits, and
the pieces of wood, both before and behind, prevent his sliding
backwards or forwards, and often save him from falling off of

the camel’s back. I may mention here, that the animals
trained for riding are‘usually termed dromedaries, but are in
no other respect distinguishable from the ordinary camels.
Well, then, the dromedary having been properly ﬁtted for
your‘use, you make your ﬁrst essay in mounting. Unlike a
Horse, as well in beauty as in speed and intelligence, the
camelrstands too high to be mounted by means of stirrups ;-
consequently, it‘is compelled to kneel and bring its huge
body nearer your own level before you can get upon its back.

The driver standing at its head, makes a. singular clicking
or gurgling sound in his throat, wh1ch "the animal under-
stands, and after a few moments and some growls of disconi
tent, 'falls upon the knees of its fore legs, then bends its hind
legs partly under its body, and ﬁnishes by stretching out. its
fore‘legs‘upon the ground, and remaining thus, its belly touch,-
ing the sand, as long as may he wanted. In this position it
is easy to mount, and being fairly astride, the camel gets up
again. It ﬁrst raises its hind legs, and then scrambles upon
its fore legs. The effect of this, as you perceive, is to give
you a sudden pitch forwards and almost as sudden a‘pitch
back again to a level position: unless you are very careful
and have got perfectly secure on your seat, you are almost
certain to be thrown over the camel’s head (as I was on one
occasiOn) which is no triﬂing matter, I can assure you. In
general, persons ride Without stirrups, but‘ we thought that
'they'would prove serviceable in resting our legs, which, other-

