364 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

“ God was manifest in the ﬂesh,” “ that our Lord sprang eat
of Judah,” and that great David’s greater Son was born in
the city of David, a Saviour, even Christ the Lord.* May
God forgive me if I was wanting in aught, whether here or
elsewhere, which it became one of the meanest of His servants
to think or do !

You will infer, my dear 8., from the tone of What I have
above said, that I do not see any sufﬁcient reason for doubting
that this grotto really marks the place of our Lord’s nativity.
Dr. Robinson objects to this locality, on several grounds, but
mainly on account of its being a cave, or grotto, which cir-
cumstance, he thinks, “it is natural to suppose, that the sa-
cred writer would not have passed over in silence.”’r With-
out stopping to enlarge upon the danger of arguing from the
silence of Holy Scripture, a process which involves the inter-
preter in inextricable difﬁculties, and which, like a two-edged
sword, generally cuts both ways, I think it sufﬁcient to state,
that the tradition in favor of this spot is too ancient and too
clear, to be set aside by anything which has yet been urged
against it. If “ a love of simple historic truth” is to lead us
to reject what has been handed down to us from a period not
more than ﬁfty years after the death of St. John, and as I
believe from even an earlier period, then there is nothing of
the sort in the Holy Land, of which we can be sure; there
is no locality at which we dare look with any great conﬁdence;
there is no question relating to ancient topography, which does
not become almost entirely a mere matter of opinion between one
scholar and another ; and the novel and remarkable theories of a
Clarke or a Fergusson have as much right to be considered prob-
able as those of any one else, Dr. Robinson himself included
I doubt not but that your convictions will agree with mine on
this point, when I inform you, that even by the showing of
the learned author of [the “Biblical Researches,” the tradi-

* 1 Tim. iii. 16; Heb. vii. 14; Luke, ii. 1].
f See “ Biblical Researc ,” vol. ii. p. 78, '79.

