340 'scyy'r ANDITHE HOLY LAND.

There appears hto‘be’n'o occasion'tO‘pursue the subject
further in a. historical point of View: no one has ever
doubted—I except, of course, Mr; Fergusson—that the site
ﬁxed upon by Constantine is the same as that now seen in the
Holy City ;* and therefore it 'is quite unnecessary to quote
the uniform testimony of travellers to prove the fact which
is admitted 'on all hands. ' They who‘ oppose the view which
I have endeavored—feebly enough, I fear—to advocate, do it
on the grounds that the- topography of the Holy City will
not allow of . this being the true site of the Sepulchre; and
that the tradition urged in its favor is weak, uncertain, and
inconclusive. Of the former, I leave you to judge, hoping
that what I have been compelled to treat brieﬂy, and it may
be is obscure, will be further examined, if you are so dis-
posed, in the two‘ principal treatises on these topics, Dr.
Robinson’s and Mr. Williams’s works relative to Jerusalem.
But with respect to the latter, that of tradition, I beg to say
a word or two more in conclusion.

Why’ should we not believe in the verity of the Holy
Sepulehre? Is there anything improbable in the thing it-
'self? anything not worthy of credit in a tradition of this
sort?-anything more unphilosophical in belief than in un-
belief’! or is it-true that we should receive nothing for
which we cannot ﬁnd demonstrative evidence ’3 Who is wil-
ling to take such ground as this, when the fact is, that the
great majority of places held‘ to be those whose names they
bear have no evidence whatever to support their claims but
common tradition? For my own part, I hold it to be one
of the worst'features of the age in which we live, that men
are so prone to doubt and disbelieve; so impressed with a .
settled conviction of their superiority to their fathers; so
bent upon displaying their ingenuity in throwing discredit
upon the past; and so unwilling to look with reverence upon,

* Dr. Robinson puts the question, " Who has ever doubted the identity of the
present site with that selected under Constantine!” vol. ii. p. 71.

