330 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

pie. The second wall began at the gate Gennath, which be-
longed to the ﬁrst wall; encompassed, or circled round the
northern quarter of the city, and reached as far as the castle
of Antonia, on the north part of the temple-area. The third
wall, that of Agrippa, taking its beginning at the tower of
Hippicus, included the large suburb on the north, which had
in process of time become inhabited.* The second wall is
the one in which we are now principally interested ;‘ and the
points needful to be determined are these: the position of the
tower of Hippicus; the place where the gate Gennath was;
the line of the second wall; the situation of Akra; and the
course of the valley of the Tyropoeon.

Dr. Robinson assumes that the Tower of David, at'the
north-east angle of the present citadel, corresponded with the
Hippie Tower, and he gives his reasons at length. Mr. Wil-
liams controverts this view, and adduces his arguments to
show that it was at the north-west, instead of the north-east
angle. As it is not material to the question under considera-
tion, I shall not detain you with an abstract of the learned
authors’ arguments in favor of their respective views. It is
of more importance to determine where the gate Gennath
was situate. If we adopt Dr. Robinson’s opinion, that this
gate was near, or close to the tower of Hippieus, you per-
ceive that it renders it somewhat improbable, that the second
wall excluded the church of the Holy Sepulchre. If, on the
other hand, we agree with Mr. Williams, that this gate was
at some distance to the east of the tower, it becomes far more
easy to believe, that the wall ran in such direction as to leave
outside, but yet near at hand, the site claimed to be that of
Calvary and the tomb of our Lord. Dr. R. says in one
place, that the gate was “apparently near Hippicus;” in
another he uses stronger language, and. afﬁrms, that “ this
gate of Gennath in the ﬁrst wall, doubtless was near the
tower of Hippieus;” and moreover, that “it could not have

* Joseph. “ Bell. Jud." lib. v. c. 4.

