440 EGYPT AND THE HOLY- LAND.

khans, one on each side of the road. They are mostlyin
ruins now, but were formerly, beyond a doubt, posts of import,
ance, and cammanded this portion of the great caravan route
between Egypt and Damascus. Passing the khans, we rode
over a broad fertile plain, for two hours, passing some few
villages, and being struck with the appearance of the wild
artichoke, called khob, with its thorny, violet-colored ﬂower
in the shape of an artichoke, upon a stem‘ ﬁve'feet in height.
Very possibly, this may have been the ﬂower alluded to by
our Lord, when He spoke of “the lilies of the ﬁeld,” as St glo:
rious and beautiful. On the road, we met with wells, oe-
casionally, having large, thick stones over their mouths. We
found the water very cold, too much so to permit us to drink
of it under the intensely hot sun of this season in Syria. At
eight, We had on our left, not far off, that peculiar-looking,
horn-shaped hill or mountain, J ebel Hattin, renowned for the
battle fought there in 1187, when the Crescent triumphed
over the Cross, and the power of the Crusaders was broken
and destroyed in Palestine. For a graphic description of this
disastrous battle, let me refer you to Dr. Robinson’s “ Bibli-
cal Researches,” vol. iii. p. 241—249; it is related with more
than the usual power of the learned author’s historical surn-
maries, and will well repay perusal. Soon after, we reached
the brow of that chain of hills which enclose, on this side, the
beautiful Lake of Tiberias; and winding down their slopes
and steeps, at halllpast nine we arrived at the town of Tibe-
rias, situate a little to the south of the centre of the lake’s
western shore, and (in the water’s edge. Tubarieh is certainly
a miserable and lifeless place, oﬂering little to interest the
traveller, except it be that here several hundred Jews reside,
and—most marvellous of all—here is a new hotel, for them-
commodation of visitors! From what we saw of the town
internally, and from what we had heard, we felt no disposi-
tion to test the goodness of the new hotel, notwithstanding
the proprietor’s son, a black-eyed Jewish boy, beset us, and plead

