306 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

dens, of melons and cucumbers; and full of solemn interest,
as it must always be in connection with the glowing lan-
guage of the prophet Joel (ch. iii. 1, &c.). We mount, slowly
and thoughtfully, the steep and stony path to St. Stephen’s
gate, whence hours ago we came out; and as we traverse the
lonely streets once more, at this hour of the day, we are more
than ever struck with their deserted appearance, and with
the sad and mournful condition of the Holy City 2 do not the
words of lamentation and sorrow seem, as it were, to force
themselves on our minds; and can we refrain from uttering,
to ourselves, at least, the language of that holy man Whose
eyes ran down “ with rivers of waters for the destruction of

the daughter of his people?”

“ How doth the city sit solitary, that was full ofpeople !
How is she become a widow ! she that was great among the nations !
And princess among the provinces, how is she become tributary!

All that pass by clap their hands at thee;

They hiss and wag their head at the daughter ofJerusalem, saying,

“ Is this the city that men call ‘The perfection of beauty,’ ‘ The joy of the
whole earth 1' ”‘

It may be well, my dear 8., before sending the present let-
ter, that I should include in it a brief account of what I have
several times seen in walking or riding round the exterior of
the city. If you will be so good as to look at the map or
plan of Jerusalem, given a while ago, you will readily, and I
doubt not, intelligibly, follow me in this interesting walk.
We pass out of the Damascus gate, which is the nearest to
the hotel, and turning to the left, we proceedto make the en-
tire circuit of the city walls. You notice here, that though
there are hills close by, they are not so high or commanding
as in other parts, and that towards the north, is quite a broad,
cultivated plain or valley, which. it appears, Agrippa intended
to include in the city, when he projected enlarging its limits

‘ Lam, i. 1; ii. 15.

