98 EGYPT AND THE Homr LAND.

sVa'rious other inscriptions are to be ‘found on the walls of the
temple, some in Greek, stating how many nobles, Warriors,
statesmen and others, came here to woi‘ship Isis, and beg her
favor and protection; some in Italian, particularly 'one over
the massive doorway to the apartment of which I have spoken
above, dedicated to the gIOry of Pope Gregory XV I and the
renown of the expedition which he sent out in 1841; and
some in French, in the'days'of the older Republic, in which
the names of the principal ‘men are recorded with needless
particularity, and the victories of the army are speciﬁed with
“all the grandiloquenee loflthe Gallic nation.‘ Besides these,
the walls and columns, high and low, are adorned—I say
adorned, because many persons must have thought that they
were adorning theml—with names of all sorts, and from'al'l
climes, perpetuatingwthe memory of Mr. Softly’s or’ Mr. Sim-
pleton’s visit to Philae.- How important is it to the future
traveller to know that Mr. S. has preceded him! But I leave
:these, one ‘and all, with simply ‘quoting What is really use-
xfu1,'if it be correct, from one of the inscriptions made by the
French expedition: “lengit. depuis Paris, 30° 16’ 22”; lati-
tude boreale, 24" 3’ 45".”-—;And so, farewell to Philae.

In returning to our boat, We passed very near the Cataract,
and were witnesses of a rather curious scene. The rapids,'l
must mention, are no great matter, and hardly equal those
just above Niagara Falls; nevertheless, they are not to be
despised, and except under skilful management, a boat would
certainly be lost amid the rocks, if it should happen to get
among them unawares. While looking from a hill near by
at the Cataract and its waters dashing down impetuously, we
saw several naked Arabs prepare to swim down the current,
and exhibit their skill in reaching the smoother water below
in safety In they went, one or two with a log between their
legs, but most of them without anything at all, and at One
moment their heads would be above the water, and at an-
dther, not a trace of their tawny bodies would be visible.

r,

