ZAREPIIA'I'H on SAREPTA. 4.5

sponge, if I mistake not. The ﬁshery of this article, I may
mention, according to Bowring’s report, extends along the
Syrian coast to the north, from Tripoli to the Latakia juris-
diction, and is a branch of commerce not unworthy attention.
Passing the villages in sight on the heights above the road,
which here runs near the base of the hills, and noticing a num-
ber of grottoes cut in the rocks, which, however, we did not
stop to examine, we came, in less than half an hour, to Khan
el-Khudr, or St. George’s Khan, a saint, by the way, whom
we ﬁnd very often in the East, and who is revered nearly as
much by the Mohammedans as by the Christians. A few
minutes later, we reached a spot more interesting, though of-
fering but few traces of antiquity on which to build the
opinion usually entertained by travellers respecting its name
and character; and as it was already very late, we determin~
ed to pitch our tent here for the night. We accordingly
ascended a large mound, which is about midway between the
shore and the hills on our right, and which has some remains
vf foundations and walls, indicating the site of an ancient
town. On the southern slope of the adjacent hill is a village
of good size, with two or three welys, and termed by the
Arabs Surafend, which seems to point to the ancient Zare~
phath or Sarepta of the Bible. Maundrell, speaking of this 10-
cality, says, “The place shown us for this city (Sarepta)
consisted of only a few houses on the tops of the mountains,
within about a half a mile of the sea; but it is more proba-
ble the principal part of the city stood below, in the space
between the hills and the sea, there being ruins still to be
seen in that place, of considerable extent.” In the lapse of
time, it is not unlikely that the cultivation of the ground, and
the gradual accumulation of soil, may have covered up some
of the remains which Maundrell saw in his day—about a hun-
dred and ﬁfty years ago. While here, we carefully perused
the portions of Holy Scripture relative to Zarephath, particm
larly that interesting chapter which tells us about Elijah, tne

