188 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

with one’s own eyes really to be appreciated; and I assure
you that I have rarely felt more acutely than at present how
difﬁcult it is to describe accurately and intelligibly the ordi-
nary habits and customs of oriental life. There are so many
peculiarities arising out of the national characteristics of the
pebple, so many little things which exemplify the mental de-
velopment of the masses—so far as this term can be applied
to them—and so many ﬁner shades which are necessary parts
of the picture as a whole, that I shall be surprised if you are
not disappointed with what I have written, or if you do not
censure the vagueness and unsatisfactoriness of the present
letter. Perhaps you will allow me, as a ﬁtting close to my
lucubrations on these topics—even though I know I shall suf-
fer much by comparison—to quote a passage or two from Mr.
Lane, in illustration of some of the many and various cries
heard in the streets of Cairo; allusion was made to them
above, and they are suﬂiciently curious and peculiarly orien-
tal to merit attention: “the seller of sour limes cries, ‘God
make them light, (or easy of sale) l O limes l’--—The toasted
pips of a kind of melon called ‘abdallawec,’ and of the water-
melon, are often announced by the cry of ‘O consoler of the
embarrassed! O pips!’ though more commonly by the sim-
ple cry of ‘Roasted pips !’-——A curious cry of 'the seller of a
kind of swoetmeat (‘ halaweh’), composed of treacle fried with
some other ingredients, is ‘For a nail! O sweetmeat !’ He
is said to be half a thief: children and servants often steal
implements of iron, &c., from the house in which they live,
and give them to him in exchange for his sweetmeat.—The
hawker of oranges cries ‘ Honey! 0 oranges ! Honey l’ and
similar cries are used by the sellers of other fruits and vege-
tables, so that it is sometimes impossible to guess what the
person announces for sale, as when we hear the cry of ‘Syca-
more ﬁgs! 0 grapes !’ excepting by the rule that what is for
sale is the least excellent of the fruits, &c., mentioned; as
sycamore ﬁgs are not so good as grapes—A very singular

