474 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

we have no contr)l, may' prevent our accomplishing our pur-
poses in these particulars. I will, however, advise you of
the result at as early 9. date as possible. Meanwhile, allow
me to tell you of what has transpired since we left the vicinity
of Tyre.

We took our departure from Sﬁr on the afternoon of the
26th of April, and following the road not far from the shore,
in a north-easterly direction, and leaving the high, broken
arches of the ancient aqueduct on our right, we reached the
Nahr el-Kasimieh in the course of an hour and a half. We had
been riding through the rain, which at times fell very copious-
ly; and we were not surprised to ﬁnd the river swollen and
turbid. We crossed this stream, identical with the ancient
Leontes Flumen, over a bridge of one arch, apparently con-
structed on the remains of a more ancient bridge, the river
being some seventy or eighty feet in width near the sea,
and quite unfordable. Dr. Robinson says, that “it is the same
stream which, under the name of el-Litany, drains the great
valley of el-Buka’a, between Lebanon and Anti-Lebanon, and
then breaks down through the sea, by a mountain gorge at
the south end of Lebanon.” The learned author notices also
the baseless tradition, that it was in this river that the Em-
pcror Frederick Barbarossa was drowned, in June, 1190; the
fact being, that this distinguished warrior lost his life in a
river in Cilicia, at the date above mentioned. We met with
numerous wadys or beds of rivulets, which just at present
were swollen by the rain, but all of them were shallow ant.
easy to ford. About an hour and a half from the Leontes,
brought us to the site of Adlan, which is now a confused mass
of ruins on the sea-shore, and several old walls. It is marked,
on Robinson’s map, as identical with the Ornithonpolis of
Strabo; but that is merely conjectural. As we rode along
close by the water’s edge, we were much interested in watch-
ing an Arab, wading out among the rocks, and searching for

‘ “ Biblical Researches,” vol. iii. p. 409.

