458 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

iterrancan at no great distance from Carmel; , At present it
is not a large stream, although the water is rather deep: our
luggage and our various articles and equipments were carried
over in a large scow-boat; the horses, mules, and donkeys,
were expected to swim across; but they seemed to have no
disposition to do so: the horses and mules snorted and plunged
about, and refusing to enter the water, dashed off in a regular
stampede over the plain; the donkeys brayed, and,-withvthe
peculiar obstinacy of the brute, even when they were pushed
into the water, they would not swim to the other side.
It was an amusing, though vexatious scene, to witness the
efforts made by the noisy Arabs, and the singular want of
tact and skill in getting the animals over a petty stream of
water. After an hour’s delay, we all, men and donkeys, suc-
ceeded in getting across, just in time to be caught in a tre-
mendous shower, and to gallop over the sandy beach in a,
storm. Saving the unpleasantness of a wet ride, it was
rather grand to see the heavy, black clouds hanging over the
hills and mountains in the distance, and the Mediterranean
surging up with more and more violence, and dashing its
white foam far up on the beach. We followed the line of
the shore, and at half-past eleven, arrived at the river Belus,
which enters the Mediterranean near St. Jean-d’Acre: on its
banks, according to Pliny, glass was ﬁrst found :* we man-
aged to ford it on horseback, though not without dipping our
feet in the water, and in a few minutes rode into the city.
The present city of ,Akka bears evident marks of what, it
has suffered in past years; for on riding into the city and
going through it somewhat in detail, we found that consider-
able portions of it is in ruins; the terrible bombardment
which it underwent in November, 1840, knocked down all
the minarets, the entire ranges of houses near the sea on the
west, and pretty much all the massive wall; nothing could
stand against the iron hail which fell thick and fast upon the

* Plin. Nat. Hist. lib. xxxvi. 2 .

