82 EGYPT AND THE HOLY, LAND,

a club; and I thought that the bu‘fi‘oon, who was very brave
now that his party was in the majority, would have killed
the almost naked vagabond, whom he was beating over the
head without mercy. As it was, the fellow was left appar-
ently insensible; and our men, raising the cry of victory,
and after the manner of warriors on a larger scale, carrying
destruction into the enemy’s country, resumed the more
humble and more useful occupation of dragging the boat.
One evening we arrived at a village, where we purposed
remaining for the night, since, without wind it is quite impos-
sible to do anything after dark. The bank was higher than
usual, and the village was situate on the water’s edge,
amid a ﬁne grove of palms. Curiosity had brought out nearly
all the people, and men, women and children, squatting on
their haunches, or with their legs under them, occupied them-
selves in looking at us and watching our movements. Just
as the twilight was deepening into the gloom of night, there
appeared symptoms of not a very pleasant character, among
the people on shore. Some words, more in jest than anything
else, as I supposed, passed between our crew and the vil-
lagers, when, to my surprise, a stone was thrown into the
boat, and soon after a whole volley followed. This time our
dragoman took the lead, and with an immense pair of pistols
in his belt, dashed into the midst of his opponents: the crew
seized their clubs, and manfully seconded Antonio: Messrs. P.
and A_. and myself formed a corps ole reserve, and were ready
to take any steps which might be deemed necessary. A most
tremendous noise and confusion ensued, and for a while it
appeared very doubtful whether we should not have to storm
the village, in order to recover our men; but by and by,
Antonio appeared again, and, dragging a wretched-looking fel,
low by the nape of the neck, brought his prize on board. The
poor creature was in a state of awful terror, and thought that we
Were going either to shoot him or cut his throat. He begged,
he plead, he supplicated in the most abject terms; he was

