HISTORICAL SKETCH. 109

things in and about Thebes, such as it took us some days to
ascertain: and then, with your permission, I will try to speak
a little more fully, of a very few objects of interest, which
it would be unpardonable to pass by in silence.

Though we use the term Thebes in speaking of the great
city, which once exercised such wide sway' in Egypt, you
will understand that there is no modern town which will an-
swer to this name, but that there are several villages, known
as Luxor, Karnak, Medinet Habﬁ, etc., which occupy the
site of the ancient capital of the Pharaohs. So long ago as
the time of Cambyses, the Persian conqueror, BC. 525,
Thebes received a blow to its prosperity, from which it never
recovered; for the son of Cyrus spared no eiforts to destroy
the proud monuments of Egyptian power and glory; and,
with a zeal more akin to insane fury, than aught else to
which it can be likened, he sought to lay‘in ruins the metrop-
olis of the country which he had conquered. Subsequently,
too, one of the Ptolemies, BO. 116, on occasion of a. revolt
against his authority, marched against Thebes. and wreaked
his vengeance upon it, in a manner which it is impossible to
characterize in the terms which it deserves; and there can
be little doubt, that very much of the mischief which has
been done to the temples and monuments in and about Thebes,
is to be attributed to the deep and insatiable resentment of
Ptolemy Lathyrus, quite as much as to the hatred manifested
by the Persians against a system of worship and religion mostly
odious in their eyes. Ever since, Thebes has borne but the
rlame of what it once was: it has passed from under the
domination of the Roman, the Saracen, the Turk, and the
French, and has been for nearly half a century under the iron
rule of Mohammed Ali, who, whatever else he may have
done for Egypt, has not manifested any very enlightened
views, in respect to preserving its antiquities from the rapa-
eity of rival collectors, or the singular proceedings of certain
distinguished savans. Its importance lost, and its glory taken

