482 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

hopes for the future. Most of my intercourse has been with
the Rev. Mr. Thompson, Whom I have found to be an open,
straightforward man, well acquainted with Eastern life and
character, and capable of judging in points of difﬁculty with
clearness and decision. I have attended one of their relis
gious services, and am informed that the congregation, 00m
posed of natives converted to Protestantism, is ﬂourishing
and gives promise of abundant harvest. The press estab-
lishment is very interesting, and it afforded me no little
pleasure to go over it in detail, under the pilotage of Mr.
Thompson. It is quite large, has a very excellent supply
of Arabic type of different sizes, which are made by the
head-workman in the office ; and all their printing and bind-
ing are done under the same roof. Mr. Thompson very kindly
presented me with a few specimens of their workmanship,
which, I assure you, is far superior to anything done else-
where in the East, and quite equal to the books issued in
Paris and London. The press has been in operation about
ten years, and there have been printed, besides portions of the
Bible, a number of controversial works translated from the
English into Arabic, several native and other grammars,
arithmetics, &c. 660. Just at present, Mr. T. assured me
that, as one of the fruits of their long and severe labors,
there is an active spirit of inquiry aﬂoat among the young
men of the city, who are determined to submit no longer to
the dictation of ignorant priests and a corrupt Church; and
not only do they mean to throw off all allegiance to the
Church itself, but they intend to carry the war into the
enemy’s country by getting up a newspaper, which shall be
the organ of their sentiments and the means of breaking
down the influence of the clergy in general over the people.
You will readily understand what a powerful means this
may prove in the hands of competent persons to attain the
end desired. It is a further question whether this be really

