THE SAMARITAN PENTATEUCH. 419

outrages; and, save being called bad names by some children,
who ran after us, we escaped unharmed or unmolested.

In a little while, we reached the entrance to the old priest’s
house, who lives close by the synagogue; and we found him-
and a few other persons, sitting cross-legged, and smoking, in
the court or vestibule before the door of their house of worship.
After some little conversation with reference to our object, and
after settling the important matter of keeping on our boots
while within the synagogue, we were admitted into a moder-
ate-sized room,- covered with straw mats on the ﬂoor, and
offering nothing worthy of mention in regard to its arrange-
ment or its contents. The venerable rabbi, who was present,
showed us at ﬁrst a number of old books and manuscripts
which he had, keeping back the only one that we really cared
to see, as if to enhance its value and consequence in our eyes.
As we were a little impatient, having no time to lose, we
prevailed upon the old gentleman to bring out the great
treasure for our inspection. It proved to be a large roll, kept
in a brass case, and adorned with various costly coverings of
crimson silk, and letters embroidered in gold. We examined
the manuscript with all the care we could, and noticed, be-
sides its evident air of antiquity, that it is written in columns
of about ﬁve by fourteen inches, and three of these to what
may be termed a page. We were permitted to touch the
valuable manuscript, to look as closely as we chose at the
various peculiarities which it possesses, the color of the ink,
the size, shape, and character of the alphabet, the arrange-
ment of the words and sentences, &c., and, in short, to enter
upon any examination which our time or our wishes allowed.
The old rabbi was very obliging in every way, and in answer
to our inquiries as to the probable age of the manuscript be-
fore us, did not scruple to declare that it belonged to the
period of Moses! This was rather more than we could credit,
though 'we entertained no sort of doubt that the Samaritan
Pentatcuch is of an age which entitles it to very great consid-

