152 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

bank of the Nile, four hundred and sixteen miles from Cairo, op-
posite Kineh, which is a modern town, of some importance, be-
cause of its proximity to Kosseir, on the Red Sea, and its con-
nection with the probable course which the overland travel and
trade to India will assume. According to Wilkinson, the name
Tentyra, in Coptic Tentoré or Nikentore, seems to have origin-
ated in that of the goddess Athor or Aphrodite, who was parti—
cularly worshipped there; and the hieroglyphics, as well as the
Greek inscription on the front of the main temple, show that
it was dedicated to the goddess of love and beauty. As our
boat lay up at Kineh for the day, we crossed the river in our
small-boat, and took donkeys for the ride to the temple, which
is about three and a half miles, and through an uninhabited
and rather desolate region. We passed, now and then, a.
ﬂock of goats and sheep, tended by some children and noisy
dogs, and were saluted with the usual cry, bakhs/Lz'sh, ya,
Ichawdgeh, and in the course of an hour and a half, arrived
in the vicinity of the temple. We entered a rather ﬁne pylon,
and walked several hundred feet up a narrow dromos, with
walls of crude brick on either side, which leads directly to
the portico of the temple. A descent by steps of some twenty
feet, brought us to the level of the ﬂoor, and gave us an op-
portunity to inspect an Egyptian temple, in a better state of
preservation than any which we have seen. The massive
columns of the portico are but little injured by time or vio-
lence; the walls are all standing, and the sculptures and
hieroglyphics in a state of comparative completeness; the
roof is preserved; and the interior rooms and chambers,
though more or less defaced from various causes, enable one
to form a good idea of the internal arrangements of an ancient
temple, devoted to the worship of an Egyptian deity. With.
out pretending to enter into an accurate description of the
various portions of the temple, I may mention that the por-
tico is supported by twenty-four columns, the circumference
of each of which, I found on measurement, to be nearly

