356 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

our way through romantic passes, with frowning precipices
on either hand; now. riding down or up the sides of high hills,
each moment opening some new point of view ; and now fol-
lowing the path through lovely vineyards, olive groves, and
ﬁelds of grain, and beholding “the sycamore trees that are in
the low plains in abundance.” We had like to have lost our
way at one time, and deemed it safest to call for a guide
who professed to know the road : it was a ploughman, whom
we addressed, and without hesitation, for a few piastres, he
left his plough to the care of a friend whom he had near him,
and set off at a brisk walk for the mountain. Under his
guidance We soon arrived in the vicinity of the lofty conical
hill, which has received the name of Jebel el—Fureidis, Hill
of Paradise, or the Frank Mountain, and which, though not
very often visited, deserves some notice, at least, on account
of the remains near its base and on its summit.

The ruins near the foot of the mountain are supposed by
Dr. Robinson to indicate the site of the Herodium, a large
city erected by Herod the Great, of which the hill and fort-
ress constituted the AcropolisJL The learned author quotes
the account of Josephus in respect to this city, and makes it
appear from various particulars, such as the situation, which
is about seven miles south of Jerusalem, and not far from
Tekoa, the mountain answering to the 'one of which Josephus
speaks, the round towers, the large reservoirs of water, and
the city belo\v,—that the Frank Mountain and its vicinity
were originally occupied by this splendid city and strong
fortress. Perhaps it was here, too, that the body of Herod
was brought for burial, two hundred stadia from Jericho,
where he diedi Certainly, even a cursory look at the ruins
near the base of the mountain, and the remains on the sum-
mit, must strike the attention of every traveller, and force

‘ 2 Chron. ix. 2‘].

T On Capt. Corry’s map of Syria, Herodium is placed considerably to the east

of the Frank Mountain; Berghaus’s map agrees with Robinson‘s.
1 See Robinson’s ‘-’ Biblical Researches,” vol. ii. p. 173.

