THE PRESENT TOWN OF suns. 477'

with a number of ancient pillars and Roman mile-stones at in-
tervals. Maundrell has copied the inscriptions on two of them,
which fix the date to the time of Septimius Severus and Per-
tinax. I had half a mind to see what I could make out of
the inscriptions, being something of a dabbler .in that sort of
vexatious literature; but I spare you any account of what I
undertook, which is by far the wisest course. since I need not
confess, that I utterly failed in doing anything worth men-
tioning. As we approached Saida, we rode through a very
pleasant avenue of large acacias and tamai‘isks ; sawa number
of gardens and pretty rural residences; and were much inter-
ested in looking at some Syrian sheep, with their immense
broad tails ; since they served to call up most forcibly recol-
lections of our school-boy days, when we used to read out of
old Herodotus, that passage which speaks of these same sheep
of Syria. Little did I think, then, that I should ever behold
them in reality, on their native plains !

The city of Sidon is situate on a small promontory, which
stretches out rather to the north-west, for a little way into
the sea. As I have said, its appearance is rather striking at
a distance, and the venerable castle of ancient days, and the
square tower, or citadel, with several mosks and public build-
ings, give it an air of importance perhaps beyond what it
really deserves. We entered the town by the gate near the
north-east corner, Where the guard of soldiers for the quaran—
tine is stationed, and near to which are some rude cafes for
the troops and others who wish to smoke or lounge away their
time in the listless idleness of an oriental life. The streets
are narrow and crooked of course, but the houses are better
built, and the lanes better attended to, in most respects, than
in Tyre. The port is small, and contains only some boats;
though a little farther out, were some two or three vessels of
larger size, riding at anchor. Many of the best houses in the
town are built immediately over or on the wall which is on
the eastern side of the promontory, on which Saida stands.

