300 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

compressed and gently rising summit, which is in the winter
time frequently covered with snow ‘; while close to the 59:1
the valley-clefts of the Zerka river and the Arnon, (Wady
Mojeb) are plainly to be distinguished; and during clear
weather, the old fortress Kerak also appears like a rock-nest,
"where the sea has long since disappeared from our eyes,
which, after a complete circle, again rest on the place
whence We set out.” .

This graphic description of the view from the sriml‘nit of
the mount of Olives, is from the pen of the amiable and e36-
‘cellent Dr. Schultz, formerly Prussian consul at Jerusalem,
and probably more intimately acquainted with the Holy
City and its environs than any man living.* Having been
privileged to gaze ’upon the magniﬁcent panorama of which
he speaks, We can testify to its accuracy and ﬁdelity; and
We can well be content to adopt his words instead of any
feebler ones which I myself might write. We may not, how-
ever, leave this sacred mountain-top without reﬂecting for a
few moments Upon the deeply instructive past, and calling to
inind seine of the scenes to which this mount has been
witness.

More than a thousand years before the advent of our Lord,-
the sacred historian tells us of the trials and sufferings of the
royal psalmist on this very mountain-side. An ungrateful,
unnatural son, with artful hypocrisy, had corrupted the
hearts and minds of his father’s subjects, and drawn them
into actual rebellion. His own crimes that loving father had
forgiven freely, and yet Absalom conspired against him to
deprive him of his kingdom and life. When David ascer-
tained the strength and extent of the conspiracy, and found
that “ the hearts of the men oflsrael were after Absalom,"
he 'said to the faithful few with him at Jerusalem, “ Arise,
and let us ﬂee; for we shall not else escape from Absalom;

makeh’speed to depart, lest he overtake us suddenly, and bring

ll ;
* I quote from Mr. William’s “ Holy Cily,” vol. ii. p. 438.

