PURPORT OF THE SPHINX. 55

head of a man, measuring from the belly of the lion to the
highest point of the head, sixty-three feet, and the expansive
lion’s back, reaching out to the vast length of nearly a hun-
dred and ﬁfty feet—how grand, striking, and forceful must
it have appeared in the days of its glory and renown !*

It needs not here, my dear S., that I venture upon the
question which has been discussed with much learning, as to
the design of the Sphinx; doubtless there was some deep
meaning intended to be couched under this union of man
and beast, and their respective qualities; but precisely what
it is, is difﬁcult to say, or which of the numerous theories of
distinguished scholars is the more probable, it is hard to pro-
nounce; perhaps, after all, the discussion is of no great value,
since I believe it may be said, that Egyptian theology is in-
volved in even deeper darkness, than that which has long
enveloped the history and literature of the land of the Pha-
raohs; and there can be little doubt, after what the labors of
the indefatigable Caviglia brought to light, that the Sphinx
was a local deity, and was treated with divine honor and
worship by the ancient Egyptians. Instead of wearying you
with abstruse speculation, permit me to quote, as a relief
to the dryness of what has gone before, the celebrated
Dr. Young’s version of one of the Greek exvotos or dedica-

‘ Lord Lindsay, in his interesting “ Letters on Egypt,” 600., (p. 51,) gives a
more poetic and fanciful view of the Sphinx. His notion is, that the human
head and bust are those ofa woman, and he indulges in something of a rhap—
aody thereupon 2—“ Her attitude bespeaks the calm repose of conscious strength,
her expression of countenance benevolence—the tout ensemble, strange, mysteri-
ous beauty, awful in its stillness. A monster she is indeed, but not one to trem-
ble ut,—you stand before her in awe and reverence, as before the wise but be»
nevolent Simurgh; and oh, if one could but give her. a tongue, what histories
she would tell, what wisdom reveal to us !” I am sorry to interfere with Lord
L.’s poetry, but there can be no doubt that, as Mr. Layard (“Nineveh,” &c.,
vol. ii. p. 170) asserts, “It is well known that the Egyptian Sphinx is always

male.” The Great Sphinx, too, appears to have been a sculptured representation
nfone ofthe early Pharaohs.

