176 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

wear dresses of different descriptions, half Turkish, half
Egyptian, partly Frank, partly Greek, some English, some
French, more nondescript: here are women in veils and
drawers, with yellow boots and slippers; there are women
without covering to the face, with bare feet and legs, and
having only a blue shirt of cotton; and mingled with all are
boys and girls, dogs and donkeys, camels and horses, carts
and carriages, sheep and goats, the gaudy splendor of some
government ofﬁcer and the ragged penury and ﬁlth of some
miserable fellah, the concubines and wives of the rich man,
astride of asses and guarded by eunuchs, and the half-naked
peasant woman seated in like manner upon her lead of vege-
tables, a plentiful supply of importunate beggars*—and many
such-like curious sights.

As the morning advances, the scene changes somewhat;
frequently you see Europeans in the street, moving about
with all that freedom and utter indifference to the liking or
disliking of the Turks and others, which characterize them:
as they do not understand, so they do not care for the mut-
tered imprecations which are every now and then bestowed
upon them by some bigoted Mohammedan, who only wants

* The cries of the beggars who frequent the streets and frequently grow rich
by the trade are curious enough, and well Worth quoting, as illustrative of the
extent to which the Mohammedans bring religion to bear on nearly all subjects,
whether appropriate or not: “Among the most common cries are—‘ 0 exciter of
compassion ! 0 Lord !’- 'For the sake of God ! 0 ye charitable l’—‘ I am seek<
ing from my Lord a cake of bread l’—‘ 0 how bountiful Thou art! 0 Lord !’-—
‘I am the guest of God and the Prophet l’—in the evening, ‘My supper must
be Thy gift! 0 Lord !’—on the eve of Friday, ‘ The night of the excellent
Friday !’—and on Friday, ‘The excellent day of Friday !’-—~One who daily
passed my door used to exclaim, ‘Place thy reliance upon God! There is none
but God !’ and another, a woman, I now hear crying, ‘My supper must be Thy.
gift! 0 Lord! from the hand of a bountiful believer, a testiﬁer of the unity of
God I O masters !’—The answers which beggars generally receive (for they are
so numerous that a person cannot give to all who ask of him) are ‘ God help
thee!’—‘ God will sustain !’—-‘ God give thee !’——‘ God content, or enrich, thee !’
-—~'X‘hey are not satisﬁed by any denial but one implied by these or similar rm-
swers.”——Lane’s “ Illadern Egyptians,” vol. ii. p. 28.

