THE INHABITANTS‘ on JERUSALEM. 273

apartments with dome-shaped ceilings, which are ornamented
ofttimes with tasteful mouldings and other pretty things, to
set them off to advantage. These project above, generally in
the midst of the flat roof or terrace, and form one of the very
singular and really picturesque features about the Holy City.
The terrace is, of course, open to the sky, and at certain
seasons of the day, particularly in the cool of the twilight
and evening, or in the morning hours, before the sun has
arisen in his strength, it is not only the pleasantest spot in
the whole house, but is resorted to by all ages and classes.
Of course, as I have been in.but few houses in Jerusalem,
I am not able to say much of the style of furnishing or the
points in which in these respects they differ from our habi-
tations. To one of our habits, if I may judge by my own.
feelings, oriental houses have not many attractions; but I
am told, and I can well believe it, that use soon accustoms
one to the style of living and the arrangements for comfort and.
convenience, which are common in this country, and after a
time, it is said, foreigners become more attached to eastern
than to western habits and customs ;—but this is a matter on
which I need not dwell.

The Holy City is, as you know, inhabited bya mixed
population, consisting of Christians, Jews and 'Mohamme-
dans. Of their numbers it is by no means easy to obtain
any accurate estimate. I made many inquiries of these
who had resided long in Jerusalem as well as of some who
claimed this as their birth-place, and I was rather surprised
at the singular variety of answers which were given to my
questions. Every one spoke vaguely; there were about so
many, or so many, people in the city; and not an individ-
ual, not even those in authority, pretended to know with any
precision the number of the inhabitants. One person esti-
mated the population at twenty thousand, in round numbers,
of which ﬁve thousand were Jews; another thought that

there were certainly more people than this resident in J eru-
12*

