288‘ EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

thorns and the purple robe, and exclaimed, “ Behold the
man l” Hence the name, the “Arch of EcoelHomo.” This,
Gate, called by the natives, both Christian and Mohamme-
dan, Bab Silly Min/am, or “St. Mary Gate,” is ornament-
ed by four lions, sculptured in relief, over the gateway, prob-
ably, as Mia'Williams thinks, the Work of the Christians.
As you will observe, decoration of this kind is peculiar in
an oriental city; and hardly accords with the character and
appearance of the Turkish guards who are lounging about,
and who look at us with no friendly eyes.

Let us pause for a moment and look around, for here we
are gazing upon holy ground. Directly before us is the steep
and stony descent into the Valley of Jehoshaphat; a little
way further, the Brock Kedron ; then Gethsemane ; and then,
the sides and steeps of the Mount of Olives, crowned by the
ruined Church of the Ascension. Towards the north and
east, the valley lies in all its beauty and richness of cultiva-
tion; on our right, close by the wall, is the Mohammedan
Cemetery, and the hillside, very precipitous, and reaching
down into the depths of the valley; and on the rise of the Mount
opposite, and at some distance to the southeast, are the tombs
of Jehcshaphat, Absalom, and others, and the burial-ground
of the Jews. 0 what busy thoughts here come thick and
fast upon the mind of .the devout pilgrim! and howincompe-
tent does he feel to take in the pathos and power of what is
spread out before him !

Let us go on; the pathway is steep, and the bare rocks
in'many places are under our feet; we meet but few persons,
and there is a stillness and quiet well suited to the tone of
our feelings. Ere long, we come to the dry bed of Kedron’s
Brook, and crossing it by a small arched bridge, we reach the
foot of the Mount of Olives: near by is the supposed tomb
of the Blessed Virgin, an edifice rather imposing in appear-
ance, but possessing no claims on our sympathies, when. we
are close to undoubted sacred localities: spoken of in Holy

