260 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

beautiful, and there appeared to be an abundant supply of
water in almost every direction. I do not know when I haw
noticed a more pleasing contrast than on this occasion, be-
tween the verdant, well-watered valleys, rich in the manifold
productions of the ground, and the rocky sides and sterile
summits of the high hills which encompass them: indeed
such features in the scenery of the Holy Land are so obvious,
that they must impress the mind of every one who is priv-
ileged to visit its sacred localities.

During the day before, and the early part of the present
day, we had been traversing the portion of country allotted
to the tribes of Simeon and Dan, and had been journeying
in a north-easterly lireetion. At Latrﬁn we entered upon ‘
the main road wh'ch connects Jerusalem with Ramleh and
J aiTa, or Joppa, on the sea coast. Our course was now
rather to the south of east, into "the land of Benjamin, and
through a region so unlike everything which I had imagined,
that the impressions there made upon my mind can never be
effaced. At a quarter before ten, We came to What is called
the Bab el Wady, or “Gate of the Valley ;” near to which
is a rural coffee-shop under a fig-tree, Where it is customary
for travellers to refresh themselves with a cup of this deli-
cious beverage,'and if they choose, to smoke a. pipe under
the shade of the trees. Here we entered upon a most dreary,
uncomfortable, and, as I felt it, most terrible road, leading
from the lovely valleys which we had. just left, through the
gorges and up the sides of barren mountains, with hardly a
pleasant thing to relieve the prospect, and with everything to
depress the spirits of the traveller. Let me beg you to im-
agine our position: the path or road, though a great thorough-
fare, and in constant use, is not only narrow and steep, but
also exceedingly rough and stony. At one time, we were
winding our way slowly along, looking down over a precipice
into some deep and trackless ravine; at another, we were
making our way, always in single ﬁle, with overhanging

