30 EGYPT AND THE IIOLY LAND.

of Christianity prevalent throughout the land. But, it needs
not that I dwell here upon the Nile and its scenery, asI hope,
by and by, to have a more ﬁtting opportunity during our pro.
jected voyage up the river to Thebes and the Cataracts: it
may be, too, that I shall be able to speak more intelligibly
and accurately than at present, when everything is so novel,
as hardly to be distinct in my recollection, and so strange
and even mysterious as to cause me not a little perplexity.

Usually, in ascending the Nile to Cairo, the pyramids are
visible for many miles before reaching Bulak, the port of the
metropolis. Towards evening, on the 19th, we looked with
no common interest in the direction where they are situate,
but our eyes were not gratiﬁed with a view of these imposing
monuments of antiquity, and we had to restrain our impa-
tience till another day. It would be but little beside the
truth, did I say the same of Cairo itself; for, so late was the
hour of arrival, so dark was the night, and so impossible is it
to see aught of an oriental city, except when the sun shines,
or some grand illumination takes place, that we left the
steamer, and rode into the city, with no more perception of
where we were going, than if we had been set ashore at any
petty village along the Nile. It was rather vexatious, but it
could not be helped, and we consoled ourselves with the pros—
pect of enjoyment on the morrow, when we purposed explor~
ing the city somewhat at large, and, as soon as might be,
paying our long thought of visit to the pyramids.

Cairo, or El—Kahireh, the “city of victory,” is one of the
most interesting, and purely oriental cities to be met with in
the East. In size and extent, in the number of its popula-
tion, in its importance as the metropolis of Egypt, it holds
the ﬁrst rank ; and in those peculiarities which distinguish it
from European cities, or such places as Alexandria, partly
Arabic and partly Frank, it presents to the traveller a ﬁeld
for observation, which can hardly be found anywhere else.
As you will notice, we have been here but a few days; and

