158 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

do not require that I should dwell upon them at this time.
The most curious thing, perhaps, in or about the temples,
after what I have noted in regard to Cleopatra, are the repre-
sentations of goddesses or mothers suckling their children;
generally the child sits astride the lap of the mother, and
thus obtains nourishment from the breast; but here I observed,
in one instance, the mother sitting and the child standing and
suckling, and in another, both the mother and child were
standing, and the lips of the boy were pressed to the breast of
his goddess-mother, in the act of drawing thence his needful
sustenance. But of these and such-like matters, neither
time nor space permits me to speak, in the terms which they
really deserve. I shall therefore pass on to another point,
which I promised to say something upon, before telling you of
Beni-Hassan and its interesting grottoes. To be strictly
accurate, I ought to have sent you in a previous letter an
account of my visit to the bishop of Es-Siout; but not having
had a good opportunity before the present occasion, I am obliged
to introduce it here. I trust that its interest will be none
the less in your eyes from the fact that some weeks have
elapsed, since I had the pleasure of seeing the diocesan of the
capital of Upper Egypt, my intervieWS having taken place
when we were going up the Nile, whereas now our faces are
turned towards Cairo.

It was on a Sunday afternoon that we arrived at Es-Siout,
having been nearly three weeks in accomplishing a distance
of two hundred and ﬁfty-four miles. As I had been furnished
with a letter by my highly esteemed friend and brother, the
Rev. J. R. T. Lieder, to the Coptic bishop of Es-Siout, I em-
braced the earliest opportunity of going ashore with our drago~
man, to pay my respects to him, and also to present him with
an elegant quarto copy of the Gospels in Coptic, with an
Arabic version on the side of the page. This elaborate and
valuable addition to the stores of Biblical literature, is mainly
due to the learning and perseverance of the able and exactlent

