196 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

of the Khalifs,io‘f the Kings, &0. The Citadel is one of the
most interesting spots in the city: every traveller makes it a
point to-‘visit it, and enjoy the splendid view which is 'there
spread out before him; of course we did the same, and were
well rewarded. The ascent is by a'wide carriage road, which
winds gradually up to the summit, and affords many a pleas-
ant glimpse of the city, as well‘as distant objects. Of the
fortiﬁcations, which are on a large scale, it is needless to
speak; the only really interesting point in connection with.
them is the spot near the Roomayleegate, where Emin
Bey—this was in March 1811—escaped during the massacre
of the Memlooks, by leaping his horse over a gap in the then
dilapidated walls. You may'be sure that, however policy,
or what is called state necessity, may serve to justify or
palliate the detestable treachery of Mohammed Ali, we could
not refrain'from "a strong feeling of indignation against him
and all other tyrants who take such means to rid themselves
of their enemies. Within the Citadel is the new mosk of Mo-
hammed Ali; it is very large and peculiarly imposing, as
well from its position as from its style, and the material
of which it is built. The stone is the Oriental or Eg ptian
alabaster, and is very showy, and on the whole pleasing. At
present the mosk is but partially finished, and it will probably
take' some years before it can be completed. They have a
curious notion in Cairo and the neighborhood, that the old
Pasha, who is now in his dotage, and may be removed at any
moment, is to be spared till his new mosk is entirely ﬁnished.
[t is ‘quite possible, that this same delusive idea has place in
his thoughts, and that he counts upon several years yet, be-
fore he goes to his ﬁnal aceountﬁ“ The view frorri the plat-
form or level space in front, which forms the court of the

* Alas for all human calculations! Mohammed Ali is dead; he expired
August 2d, 1849, aged 80 years, and was buried in his unﬁnished mask, and

not in the large and splendid mausoleum which he had provided for himselfand
his family.

