350 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

deﬂled the glory of his name, and done dishonor to theme
only true God, by sacriﬁcing to idols and-those which be no
gods ;* and our minds dwelt for a while upon the plots and
evil counsel of the chief priests and elders, against the holy
and harmless, and undeﬁled One, and upon the unuttcrable
guilt of the traitor Judas, who betrayed the innocent blood
of his Lord and Master. In general, as I think I have be-
fore stated, the face of the country about Jerusalem has a hard
and almost barren appearance ; the rocks in many places are
bare, and the soil is for the most part thin and scanty; on
the level surface over which we were slowly riding, there was
indeed deeper earth, but it abounded in loose stones, and was
deeply tinged with a reddish brown color, indicating the pres-
ence of a large proportion of clay ; nevertheless, the ground
is far from unfruitful, and the waving ﬁelds of grain and
grass, the groves of olive, the fig-trees, the pomegranates, the
pear, and other fruits, not only gave token of what the land
is capable of producing, but added greatly to the interest and
beauty of the scene, as beheld under the morning sun of
April’s lovely month.

We did not take the usual road in our excursion, but
branched all, soon after leaving the city, rather to the left,
and followed the sheep or goat-paths along the sides of the
hills or over the level spots, till we arrived at the “Frank
Mountain.” On our right, we passed the plain or valley of
Rephaim, so celebrated in Scripture history as the place
where the Philistines “came up and spread themselves”
against David, after he had been anointed king over Israeli
I could well imagine, as from a slight elevation we looked
abroad over this extensive valley or plain, what a grand bat-
tle-ﬁeld it must have formed, when on the one side were the
Philistines, with their chariots and horsemen, “and people

" See 1 Kings, xi. 1-7.
'f See 2 Sam. v. 18, ‘22; 1 Chron. xi. 15; Isa. xvii. 5;,in Joshua, xv. 8, and
xviii. 16, the same locality is termed ” the valley of the giants.”

