324. EGYPT ,AND THE HOLY LAND.

that God will answer the prayers of us, penitent sinners,
who cry unto Him for pardon and grace, kneeling, as we do,
near the very tomb in which His body lay, and from which
He rose on the third day? And shall we not, as we leave
this deeply interesting spot, resolve, in the fear of God, to
strive ever hereafter to lay aside everything which hinders our
onward and upward progress toward heaven, where our Master
ever liveth and reigneth in power and great glory, world
without endv?

Mount Calvary is about a hundred and twenty feet distant,
as nearly as I could measure it, from the site of the scpul-
chre, in a south-easterly direction, and is reached by a ﬂight
of eighteen steps out in the rock: the elevation is about
tWenty feet above the ﬂoor of the church. We here ﬁnd
the same excess; of decoration, and the addition of things
which mar sadly the very spots intended to be honored and
adorned. The: old monk points out to us the place where, he
says, the Lord, Jesus was nailed to the cross, over which is
an altar: near by he shows us the hole made in the rock in
which the cross was set up; and'alittle behind, on either
hand, the holes dug for the crosses of the two malefactors:
the altar here erected is adorned profusely and gaudily. We
are also. shown, at a few feet distance from the place where
the cross stood, a cleft or ﬁssure in the rock, reported to have
been made by the earthquake at the time when our Lord:
yielded up the ghost, and the earth did quake, and the rocks
were rent, and the graves were opened. Some writers, like
Mr. Bartlett, stigmatize this, and indeed everything about this
locality, as “ contrivances which tend to produce disgust ;”'
I see no improbability, however, in the thing itself, but rather
considerable reason to credit the received tradition; and Il
prefer to adopt the language and sentiments of the sagacious
and acute Maundrell on this point; he says: “ This cleft, as
to what now appearspf it, is about a span wide at its upper
part, and two deep, after which it closes: but it opens again

