RECOLLECTIONS OF TABOR. 439

cry of this transﬁguration upon Mount Tabor. How many
a sword, since gray antiquity, has glittered upon it, and
aroused the bloody contest! How many an eye has beamed
from it aloft to heaven, and supplicated the peace of ’God i”

Late in the afternoon, we reached our tent again, after a
toilsome and unpleasant descent; and rcposing under the
shade of a large oak-tree, we strove to take 1n the reality of
the things with which we had been brought into close con-
nection. For myself, I found it a very interesting occupa-
tion, to show our dragoman the very passages of Scripture in
relation to Mount Tabor, and to witness his astonishment,
Christian though he is nominally, at ﬁnding in the Bible
what is there written. I do not recollect ever to have had a
more attentive listener than Antonio proved to be, while I read
to him and told him about Barak and his ten thousand men,
marching down from the heights of Tabor into the plain; about
Deborah the Prophetess, in whose days the highways were
unoccupied, and the travellers walked through byways; about
Sisera and his nine hundred chariots of iron, and the multi-
tude of his host; and about the great battle on the plain be-
fore our eyes, when the Lord discomﬁted Sisera and all his
army, when “the stars in their courses fought against Sise-
ra,” and when “the river Kishon swept them away—that
ancient river, the river Kishon.”t Oh, it was a time not to
be forgotten, when, on Taber’s slope, perhaps in the very path
pursued by Barak and Deborah, on this memorable occasion,
we sat and read aloud the song of victory, which, ages ago,
was chanted to the honor and glory of Jehovah !—“ So let all
thine enemies perish, O Lord; but let them" that love Him
be as the sun when he goeth forth in his might.”

The next morning, at half-past ﬁve o’clock, we left our
encampment, and set out for the Sea of Gennesareth. Pass-
ing round the northerly base of Tabor, through a lovely and
fertile vale, at half-past six we reached two strongly fortiﬁed

‘ 'ﬁschendorlﬁ “Travels in the East,’{ p. 235. 1' judges, v. 20, 21. -

