THE HISTORY OF TYRE. 471

its pride, arrogance, luxury, and vices of various descriptions,
and because of its insults and injuries towards God’s people, it
was denounced by the prophets of Jehovah, and its destruction
foretold in the plainest terms. More than a hundred years after
Isaiah wrote his prophecy, Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon,
laid siege to Tyre, and after a long, toilsome, and excessively
fatiguing siege of thirteen years, took it and laid it in ruins.
This, as is probable, was the city on the main land, the Tyri-
ans having mostly withdrawn to the island while the siege
was going on, and thus in measure escaped the severity of
the enraged conqueror, who does not appear to have captured
the island likewise: this was in the year BC. 573', and after
this date Palae Tyrus does not seem to have held any rank
or importance in history. After the fall of the Babylonian
monarchy, about seventy years from the date of its capture,
the city resumed its pristine power and greatness; but con-
tinued on the island, and is the Tyre spoken of in the early
writers; the former city was never rebuilt. Its destruction
was foretold again by Ezekiel and the other prophets: and
accordingly Alexander the Great laid siege to it, and after in-
credible labor and enterprise, constructing a causeway out of
the ruins of Palae Tyrus and assaulting the city with engines,
in seven or eight months he succeeded in taking the proud
metropolis of commerce. Most bitter was the punishment
inﬂicted on it for resisting the great conqueror; he burnt it
down to the ground, destroyed or enslaved all the inhabitants,
and barbaronsly cruciﬁed two thousand of the captives: this
was about BC. 332. Notwithstanding this terrible blow,
Tyre gradually rose again from its ruins, and after Alexan-
der’s death, was a strong fortress in possession of the Selen-
cidae: subsequently it fell under the dominion of the Romans,
and appears to have been a place of some note and import-
ance. Our Lord visited this section of country; and at a
later date St. Paul landed here, and ﬁnding some disciples,
tarried in Tyre seven days. Though not What it once was,

