120 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

of the chambers are represented the various processes con-
nected with culinary operations, as the slaughtering of oxen,
the putting the cauldrons over the ﬁre, the kneading of some
substance with the feet, the making of bread, where the dough
is kneaded by hand, &c. In another chamber is a great vari-
ety of warlike instruments, helmets, spears, daggers, clubs,
standards, &c. In another are to be seen specimens of house-
hold furniture, as chairs, sofas, couches, and numerous orna-
mental articles for the drawing-room or parlor, of which Wil-
kinson truly remarks, that they prove that the ancient Egyp-
tians “ were greatly advanced in the arts of civilization, and
the comforts of domestic life.” But I need not dwell upon
those points, which have been so admirably enlarged upon by
the illustrious author, to whom all travellers in Egypt are so
much indebted. One other chamber, only, demands a passing
notice, viz., that from which the tomb generally derives its
name. We spent some little time in looking at the harpcrs
and their instruments, which have an additional interest from
the circumstance of the name of Bruce being written just
over one of them. The minstrels are blind, and the harps
have eleven and thirteen strings; they are performing in the
presence of the god A0 or Hercules, and might easily be
taken for persons of the same rank in life, and the same oe-
cupation as the wandering musicians of modern days.

The other tombs of the kings, which we examined with
some particularity, are those which Wilkinson has numbered
9, 14 and 15: we also took considerable pains to explore one
of the extremely spacious tombs in the Assaseef, executed by
a wealthy priest, who lived about BC. 640. I am conﬁdent
that I should weary you, were I to enter upon a detailed de-
scription of these catacombs, which have so many character-
istics in common with those already spoken of. If I have
been so happy as to render my meaning at all clear, there is
the less necessity of this, since you will understand that the
variety in the style, subject, and execution, is not great, and

