THE VALLEY NEAR. NABLUS. 423

Just at present I am seated in the comfortable apartment
furnished by the good monks of the Latin convent at Naza-
reth, for the refreshment of travellers and pilgrims; and hav-
ing now some few hours’ leisure and repose after the fatigues
of several days past, I purpose devoting them to your grati-
ﬁcation—so far as I am able to minister to that—in giving
you an account of our journeyings since the date of our
leaving Nablus and its neighborhood.

It was a bright and beautiful morning, that of the 19th,
when we turned our faces westwardly, and rode through the
lovely valley between Mount Gerizim on the south and
Mount Ebal on the north. Perhaps nowhere in Palestine is
there a spot which surpasses this vale in attractiveness and
beauty. It abounds in springs, and fountains, and rivulets
of pure and sweet water, which gushes forth in every direc-
tion, and invigorates and clothes everything in the mantle of
loveliness. The hill-sides are covered with gardens, and
groves, and verdant, ﬂowery meads; the melon and the
cucumber, the pomegranate and eitron, the almond and the
ﬁg, the orange and the apple, the vine and the olive, all
grow in abundance near Nablus; amid the foliage of the
trees, the feathered songsters pour forth their cheering
notes of gratitude and praise; and everywhere nature wears
her garb of beauty, more vivid and striking here because of
the sterile'mountain-tops on either hand and the rough and
stony region not far distant to the north-west.* As we rode
along, we noticed several villages near our line of road which
were apparently thriving and populous; and we saw evi-
dences of the industry and comforts of the people in various
little things which attracted our attention : occasionally, we

* “ Here a scene of luxuriant and almost unparalleled verdure, burst upon
our view. The whole valley was ﬁlled with gardens of vegetables and orchards
of all kinds of fruits, watered by several lbuntains, which burst forth in various
parts and ﬂowed westwards in refreshing streams. It came upon us suddenly
like a scene of fairy enchantment. We saw nothing to compare with it in all
Palestine.”—” Bib. Ree," vol. iii. p. 95.

