74 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

sketch of our boat, which my friend, Mr. Atkinson, made for
me one day, while we were at anchor near Kineh. It is, I
can assure you, very life-like, indeed.

I trust you will excuse this dry detail, as in some degree
necessary to render at all clear our position, and the mode
of life in which we indulge: habit has rendered us so accus-
tomed to our boat and its accommodations, that it seems
almost like home, and one is gradually led to enlarge upon
the topic as he would in speaking of home, though that is
often of interest to no one else so much as himself. -The
“Ibis,” however, has other and more striking points: she is
manned by areis, pilot and ten men. Sherkawy, our rcis, is
of the Barabra or Nubian race, and is really one of the best-
looking men” that I have met with in the East. He has‘a
decidedly good face, high projecting'forehead, bright-black
eyes, very dark skin, good teeth, ‘and regular features ; he is
about ﬁve» feet .ten inches in height,'rather spare in person,
and when occasion offers, displays great muscular power. In
general he sits on the small elevated space near the bow,
keeping a good look out, and issuing his orders or exhortation‘s
with vigor and decision: sometimes he mounts the upper
deck, and holds a conference with the pilot, a grim-visaged,
one-eyedPalinurus, who rarely changes hisposition or utters
a'Word. At stated hours the reis spreads his carpet for
prayer,* and goes through the required Mohammedan wor-
ship With scrupulous exactness, and with an evident devoted-
ness, which has excited in me much regret and compassion,
seeing that he knows not the pure faith 'of the Gospel. On
the Whole, while it is hardly possible to ﬁnd one 'of his class
free from the vices for which his countrymen are celebrated,

* “Mohammed obliged his followers to pray ﬁve times every twenty-four
hours, at certain times, viz. 1. In the morning, before sunrise. ‘2. When noon
is past and the sun begins to decline from the meridian. 3. In the afternoon,
before sunset. 4. In the evening, after sunset, and before day be shut in and
5. After the day 15 shut 1n, and before the ﬁrst watch of the night."-—‘Salle‘q
“Koran," Prel. Disc. p. 76.

