132 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

bear with even another letter on a topic so full of attractive-
ness as this is to those who visit the East. Most certainly,
if Karnak and Luxor do not interest you as much as it is
my earnest hope they will, and as they should, the fault is
wholly my own; and you must not think the less of what all
travellers ﬁnd that they have not words truly and fairly to
represent, because you have sad proof of my dulness and in-
efﬁciency.

During most of our stay at Thebes, our boat was moored
directly opposite the ruins at Luxor, which is a market-town
of some size, and rendered more important than it otherwise
would be, by the frequency with which travellers come to visit
the remains of the ancient metropolis of Egypt.* Hardly an
hour passed, when we were on board, in which the eye was
not attracted by the massive pillars, which seemed, as it were,
to form a grand entrance to a city beyond; the lofty propy-
lon, built strongly enough for a castle or military post;
and the magniﬁcent obelisk which Mohammed Ali presented,
together with its fellow now in Paris, to the late king of
France; and, on several occasions, as we happened to be at
Luxor when the moon was full, we had a view of the ruins
by moonlight, a viewrwhich I can safely say, was unsurpassed
by anything I ever saw in any land. One day, accompanied
by our guide, I set out tonexplore the ruins with some partic-
ularity. We passed through the broad spaces between the
columns which face toward the river, and admiring their
great size” and imposing appearance, even in their present de-
graded and unworthy position, we came to an open space be-
yond, where was once a large court connected with the other
parts of the temple; but now nothing could be more repul-
sive than the appearance of everything connected with these

* Luxor, or Luksor, occupies a part of the site of ancient Diospolis; and its

, name signiﬁes “the Palaces,” from the temples there erected by Amunoph III.

(BC. 1430) and Remeses II. (13.0. 1355). According to the distances given by
Sir G. Wilkinson, it is 464 miles south of Cairo.

