86 EGYPT AND THE “HOLY LAND.

we have abundant resources in store. The banks of the Nile
are an unfailing source of interest, though unlike those of
any river which I have ever seen, since they have no water-
plants, no weeds or shrubbery, or anything of the kind, at
the Water’s edge, and for some distance from the shore. The
height of the banks in many, or most places; the scattered
palm groves; the ﬁelds of grain ripening to the harvest; the
villages seen at intervals, and as near the water as they can
be placed, on account of its all-essential importance; the
ﬂocks of sheep and goats; the occasional herds of cattle ; now
and then camels slowly trudging along; now donkeys, and,
for a great rarity, horses; at this season, too, When the river
is getting low, the busy workmen at the shadﬁf, or the creak-
ing sakiéh, giving note of the industry "of the inhabitants,—
all these are features in an ever-varying scene, which rarely
loses its interest, or fails to impress the beholder. Nor are
there other things wanting to add to our pleasure and excite-
ment. Every day—at least since we passed Beni Hassan*—
we have been on the lookout for crocodiles, and it is quite a
spirit-stirring cry of the crew, which we now and. then hear,
timseach .’ timseach .’ You would be astonished at the
agility which is displayed in seizing our guns, and the fear-
ful accuracy of our aim at the scaly monsters; and perhaps
you would be still more astonished to know that we have shot
at crocodiles, over and over again, but we have not yet suc-
ceeded in killing one. In this experience, however, we are
far from being alone, since it is a rare thing indeed for Nile
voyagers to be able to boast of anything further than that of
having wasted a goodly amount of powder and bullets on the
impenetrable exteriors of crocodiles. Two or three times, for
want of something better, we have paid considerable atten-
tion to incipient mutinies, or disturbances, which promised
to result in this way; and occasionally we have to interpose

* This is the most northerly point at which crocodiles are found. 011 de
mending the river, Mr. P. had a shot at one on the shore near the Grottoes.

