258’ EGYPT‘ AND THE HOLY LAND.

it-pi‘evented mY'enjoying,~as”muoh' as I desired, the-deeply
interesting scenes through 'which we were passing. and made
the apprehend worse consequences in store for me. On many
accounts,‘the day was more trying than the preceding, for
not only had'it'rained hard during the night, and thus ren-
dered the road or path disagreeably wet and muddy, but at
frequent intervals, in the. course of the day, I found it very
diﬂicult to protect myself, particularly my feet, against the
abundant showers; and I thought it not unlikely, that I might
be seriously sick in Jerusalem. I did not, however, let these
things interfere with our journeying upwards toward the
Holy City, for I felt the force of that excitement which the
Christian mind cannot resist, quite as much as any one of‘
the party, and I was as eager as the most enthusiastic pil.
grim, to get a ﬁrst view of the hills which stand round about
Jerusalem, and to feast my eyes with gazing upon her towers.
Sb we rode on, at a tolerably good pace, through a pleasant
and fruitful country, in measure level and remarkably easy
of cultivation, but, more than yesterday, presenting the
varied appearance of hill and dale, and offering to the eye-
a scene, at times, of very great beauty. I can hardly pre-
tend to‘enumerate all the villages along the road, for I was
not always able to get the names exactly as the Arabs p’ro-
noun‘ced them; this, however, is of theless consequence, since
the towns and villages are very sparse, surprisingly so, when
one rccollects what a large population this land has, at differ-
ent periods, supported, and what an increase of its inhabi-
tants might easily be made, without danger of its being over;
burdened with people. The villages are also, in general, a
collection of huts of recent origin, and seldom connected with
any‘interesting point in ancient or modern history. When,
however, it may chance that they relate in any wise to the
facts of the Scriptures, I have endeavored to make accurate
mention of everything of a kind which I supposed would
be worth your attention.

