scarves IN THE VALE OF HINNOM. 309

burnt incense in the valley of the son of Hinnom, and burnt
hischildren in the ﬁre, after the abomination of the heathen,
whom the LORD had cast out before the children of Israel.”
IManasseh,,the wicked son of the good Hezekiah, did evil in
the sight of the Loan; “ and he caused his children to pass
through the ﬁre in the valley of the son of Hinnom ;” but his
grandson, the noble young Josiah, walked in all the way of
David his father, and turned not aside to the right hand or to
the left; “and he deﬁled Topheth, which is in the valley of the
children of Hinnom, that no man might make his son or his
daughter to pass through the ﬁre to .Moloch.” He made it a.
receptacle for the burnt carcasses and bones, and the ﬁlth and
refuse of the city, keeping ﬁres there continually, in order to
consume what was thrown into it, and to render it ever after
odious in the eyes of the idolatrously inclined people.
“Hence,” as says the learned Joseph Mede, “this place
being so many ways eXeorable, it came to be translated to
signify the place of the damned, as the most accursed, exe-
crable, and abominable of all places.” What a striking ﬁgure
must it have been to a Jew, this of Gehenna, where the un-
quenchable ﬁres of eternal torment await the guilty and con-
demned soul! And ought not we, remembering our Lord’s
most solemn and awful words, to take good heed lest we also
come into that place of horrors, of which language can give
no idea, and from which there is no release ?* “Thereis

* “ First, ltIoloch, horrid king, besmear’d with blood
or human sacriﬁce, and parents’ .tearsg,
Though, for the noise of'drums and timbrels loud,
Their children‘s cries unheard, that pess’d through ﬁre
To his grim idol. Him the Ammonite, .
Worshipped in Rahba and her watery plain,-

In Argob and in Basan, to the stream

0f utmost Arnon. Nor content with such
Audacious neighborhood, the wisest heart

or Solomon he led by fraud to build

His temple right against the temple of God,
On that opprobrious hill ; and made his grove

