3'86 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

the water appeared to be of a greenish blue color, and its
surface mostly still, yet at times {slightly rippled by a light
southerly breeze. Here and there were a few clouds, which
afforded us a little relief from the intense glare and heat of
the sun; but there were no trees, no shrubbery, nothing, in
short, to ward off the rays of the sun, and we had no alterna
tivc but to endure it the best way we could. The map
which I have subjoined from Lieutenant Lynch’s interesting
“Expedition. to the DeadASea,” (from April 18th to May
10th, 1848, they were on the sea,) will aid you very much
in forming a clear idea of the geographical position, size, and
shape of this sea'; and as it is undoubtedly accurate in all
its details, you may rely upon it with entire conﬁdence. Ac-
cording to the scale of miles, the sea is between thirty-ﬁve
and forty miles in length, and from six to eight miles in
breadth. For the details I cannot but beg you to refer to
the large and interesting .volume published by the accom-
plished commander of the U. S. Expedition to the Dead
Sea, who, though I do not know him personally, I know
nevertheless is an honor to the service and the country to
which he belongs, and is always remembered and spoken of
in Syria in the highest terms of respect and esteem.
Crossing the “Saltish Plain,” marked on the map, we rode
along the water’s edge, and occasibnally had some drops of it
splashed on our clothes; it was curious to notice how it dis-
colored them, and how very difﬁcult it was to get the stain
out or remove-the traces of the acrid liquid. It was also in-
teresting to mark the intense efforts put forth by the poor,
suffering and dreadfully heated and thirsty horses, in order to
quench their thirst in the water of the Dead Sea. When
they came near the water and beheld it spread out so invi-
tingly before them, they were veryteager to get near and into
it; they dashed their mouths into the liquid brine, hoping to
imbibe the cooling and refreshing draught ; and for a moment
they seemed to have swallowed, as it were unconsciously, the

