378 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND..

one period, I cannot doubt that these bills and mOuntain-rsides
.yielded fruits of increase,.and the valleys stood so thick with
corn, that they laughed and sang for joy; and it would ap-
pear that all around the Holy City, and for some distance .to
the east of it, the land was fertile and productive to a high
degree; but it is not so now; it is the very reverse. Most true
and forceful appeared to me now the words of the Psalmist,
and I thought of them‘and repeated them more than ’once
while traversing the road from Jerusalem toward the Dead

Sea: ,1-

' “ He turneth rivers into a wilderness,
And the water—springs into dry ground;
A fruitful land into barrenness,
For the wickedness of them that dwell therein.“

Yes, for the wickedness of the people of God has sent lean-
ness and barrenness upon the face of all this region: may we
not take warning by it, and believe and know that as He
has done here, He may and will do again, where the re-
bellion and disobedience of the people provoke His anger, and
bring down His judgments upon them!

At eight o’clock, we left the road which goes on direct to
Jericho; and branching oil to the right, we took the route 'to
the Dead Sea, by way of Neby Muse. It was here that We
came upon the Bedawy encampment, of which our sheikh is
the head,——I say “our sheikh,” forgetting that this is the ﬁrst

present, but discovering evident signs of the labor of the husbandman in an-
cient times. After some hours travel in this sort of road, you arrive at the
mountainous desert, into which our blessed Saviour was led by the Sp1rit, to‘ be
tempted by the devil. A most miserable, dry, barren place it is, consisting of
high, rocky mountains, so torn and disordered, as if the earth had here suﬂl'ercd
some great convulsion, in which its very bowels had been turned outwards. 0n
the left hand, looking down into 11 deep valley, as we passed along, we saw
some ruins of small cells and cottages, which they told us were formerly the
habitations of hermits, retiring thither for penance and mortiﬁcation; andhcer“
tainly there could not be found in the whole earth a more comfortless and
abandoned place for that purpose. ”—Maundrell’s s“Jaurney,” 600., March Sikh.
* Ps.’ cvii. 33, 34; see also Micah, vii. 13. . . .

