2922 never AND THE HOLY- LANp.

make preparations for the pasohal supper, to be eaten the},
evening, after sunset, when Good Friday had begun. Early;
in the evening they all assembled in the “large upper room,
furnished'and prepared,” and Jesus and the twelve sat down,
or rather reclined on the couches, to eat the supper. As they.
were eating, our Saviour uttered those most touching words;
“Verily I say unto you, one of you which eateth with me
shall betray me,” What sorrow, what astonishment, what
horror was depicted in the countenances of those chosen few,
as one by one they asked the question, ” Lord, is it I ’1”
What shame and guilty confusion did Judas Iscariot mani.
fest, when, last of all, in a low voice, knowing the foul pur-
pose he was about to execute, he, too, having asked, “ Is it,
I '1” the Saviour pointedly replied, it is—you are the traitor—
“that thou doest do quickly.” It was now that He uttered.
that long, touching, and consolatory discourse, so fully re-
corded by St. John: it was now that He instituted the holy
Sacrament, by which His death is to be commemorated until
Hiscoming again in power and great glory: it was now, after
having sunga hymn, that He left the chamber, accompanied
by the eleven, trod the lonely street, passed out of the gate,
reproved the unseemly wrangling of his disciples; and, while
the silveryi moon shed its soft rays on the hillside, descended
the stony path, and entered, for the last time, the Garden of
Gethsemane. The hour, we may suppose, to have been be,-
tween eight and, nine; and now began, indeed, the bitter
and intense agony, of which words can give no idea. Eight
of the disciples were not far off ; Peter, and James, and John
were nearer to Him: .He himself suffering the anguish of 3.
World’s sins, laid upon Him, when in His agony He cried out,
“0 my Father, if it-be possible, let this cup pass from me.”
Pmstrate on the ground, “ His sweat, as it were, great drops
of blood,” the. wrath of God against sin, all heaped on His
head—well might He have expected the sympathizing conso-
lations of those chosen 'three, whom He had taken aside to_

