ADVENTURE eN. SHORE. 79

dreadfully, While his companions slunk off as quick as possi-
ble. But this was by no means the end of my adventure;
In a few minutes, as I was walking along, I heard a great
noise and shouting behind me, and soon became aware that
the entire population of the village was in pursuit. Certainly
I had not calculated for this result, but I put a bold face upon
the matter, and facing the crowd of some fifty or a hundred
people, I distinctly warned them‘off by pointing to my gun,
and bringing it'to bear for use if required: there I stood for
quite a longtime, and listened to a diatribe from a most im~
passioned speaker, who gesticulated furiously, and evidently
demanded satisfaction for the" loss of the dog. As my knowl-
edge of Arabic is not extensive, and as it is difﬁcult even for
a good scholar to keep up with the Arabs, who can talk faster,
.it. is said, and as I now believe, than anybody else in the
world, you may be sure that I caught only here and there
,the meaning, and am not able to give an abstract of so ani-
mated a speech. Not to be behind-hand with them, I made
a reply, not quite so lengthy as my opponent’s oration, but
I ﬂatter myself more to the point; I insisted upon the fact
that the'dog Was shot in self-defence, that consequently it
was no fault of mine, and that if it were necessary I should
defend myself in the same way against the assaults of man
for (log. All this was delivered in excellent English, and lis-
tened to with commendable gravity by the major part of the
audience; but as I did not exactly fancy standing alone
against so great a force, I entrenched myself behind a large
boatdrawn up on the shore, and waited the motions of the
villagers. For a While things looked rather threatening and
uncomfortable, for one man against a hundred; but after
two or three more speeches were made, some consultations
had, and a good deal of hesitation shown as to the course
they should adopt, the affair was ended by their drawing off
and leaving me to walk back and rejoin our boat.

About ﬁve o’clock dinner is served up, in no particular

