APPENnIX. 503

themselves upon their enemies. Is not this written in the book of
Jasherl So the sun stood still in the midst of heaven, and hasted not
to go down about a whole day.’

“Now, it is essential to our'rightly understanding this passage, to
examine both the Hebrew and the English word for sun. The Hebrew
language, in accordance with strict philosophical principles, has three
names for sun. The English has also three, but they are compound
terms, thus—solar orb, solar ﬂame, solar light; yet we unphilosophically
use the word sun in all these senses: we say the sun is round, the sun
is powerful, the sun is obscured, though we mean the solar orb is round,
the solar flame is powerful, the solar light is obscured. This philosoph-
ical accuracy exists, however, primarily in Hebrew. The solar orb is
expressed by no compound term : the word bin expresses this signiﬁca-
tion; so Won the solar ﬂame or ﬁre; so likewise, wow, the word used
by Joshua, the solar light. This is also extended, as far as philosophi—
cal propriety demands, to the moon. We ﬁnd, in Hebrew, two names
applied to this planet, 713:5 the ‘disc’ orb ‘or,’ and rm the light reﬂected
from it: heat not being one of its qualities, we ﬁnd no word expressive
of the lunar ﬂame or ﬁre. That the sense of 19m! and mm is solar and
lunar light, is not only evident from a multitude of places in Scripture,
where these words occur, but also from the passage of Joshua itself:
for, if we translate ow, ‘solar orb,’ ‘solar ﬂame,’ or ‘sun,’ or h‘ﬁ, ‘lu:
nar orb’ or ‘moon,’ the one must have rested upon Gibeon, the other in
the valley of Ajalon. This indeed would be an extraordinary system
of philosophy—the Sim restingr upon a mountain, and the moon in a
valley. All this, however, is fully explained by following the philo-
sophical idea of the original, in which the solar and lunar light is stayed
liom advancing and receding upon the opposite hemispheres of the
globe, not by the agency of the sun, but by that of the earth itself.”—
“ Lecture on the Philosophy of the Jews,” by ARTHUR LUMLEY DAVIDS-
Lond. 1833, p. 9‘

THE END

