IMPORTANCE OF BEIRUT. 481

reality. While traversing the cape of Beirut, we were
struck with the contrast between the hills and heaps of sand,
driven up by the winds and waves, and the vast olive grove
not far to the right between us and the mountains beyond.
Beirut itself appeared in sight, between four and ﬁve o’clock;
and together with the very numerous villages on the plain
and the neighboring mountain-sides, the suburban residences,
villas, and gardens, the groves of mulberry trees, etc., pre-
sented a scene of no little beauty and interest. We entered
the city, and passing through several streets, we took up our
quarters at the Hotel D’Europe, on the sea-shore, and not far
from the American Consulate.

The next day we paid off and discharged our muleteers,
having been on the whole satisﬁed with their deportment
and ﬁdelity, and not having met with any losses, so far as
we know, from any fault of theirs. Since then we have
been occupied in various ways, making excursions in the
vicinity of Beirut, visiting some friends and countrymen,
and making preparations towards our ultimate departure for
Europe. Of Beirut itself I need not say much; we have
found it a pleasant place in many respects, though rather hot
and sultry ; the environs are particularly agreeable, and most
of the Franks have their dwellings outside the walls of the
city; and it is a thriving and bustling city of some twelve
to ﬁfteen thousand inhabitants. One or two matters in con-
clusion are all that I shall venture to trouble you with.

Beirut is the central point of operations for the American
missionaries in Syria. They form a band of active, acute,
energetic men, and by many years’ labor and care have
acquired an inﬂuence which seems destined to tell with great
force upon the future prospects of this land. On various
accounts, I have taken some pains to cultivate the acquaint-
ance of such members of the mission as are resident in Bei-
rut; have visited their press and mission-house here; and
have made many inquiries respecting their success and their

21

