THE CATARACTS AND SYENE. 99

After a few minutes, dripping with the spray, they climbed
nimbly up the bank and demanded bakhshz'sh for the sight
which we had witnessed: happily, it took only a few piastres,
tacontent them, and they marched off in high glee, and we
returned to Aswan just at sunset. .

Of the modern town which answers to ancient Syene', I‘
need not? say'anything, as it’presents few points of interest
beyond what all Arab towns and villages have in common.
I made one expedition'through‘ it, without any attendants;
but except a little extra impertinence, I met with nothing
worth recording. Syene was a place of importance in ear-
lier days, being on the frontier of Egypt to the south; it is
spoken of by the prophet Ezekiel, who denounced the judg-
ments of God against the land of the Pharaohs :—-‘

“Behold, therefore I. am against thee and against thy rivers,
And I will make the land of Egypt utterly waste and desolate,
‘ From Migdolto syene, even' unto the border of Ethiopia.W

In later times, the emperor Hadrian sent Juvenal into ban-
ishment to this spot,’r with the half-mock title of “Governor
of the Frontier of Egypt,” and it was, here in exile that the
great satirist died, four years subsequently, at the advanced
age of more than fourscore years. At present, the most in-
teresting thing in connection with this vicinity is undoubt-
edly the quarries of granite, so well known under the name
of Syenite, or red granite. I spent part of a ,very hot day in
examining these quarries, and can assure you that nothing
which I have seen in Egypt impressed me more strongly
with the skill and ability of the ancient inhabitants than what
I here witnessed. What instruments, they must have pos-_
sessed to separate from the solid mass such immense blocks
of stone as we see in every part of- Egypt, and what ma-
chines they must have used to transport the obelisks, and

' Ezek. xxix. 10; xxx. 6; marg. reading.
1' Some authorities mention other localities in Egypt as the place of his exile.

