'r.

‘o

46 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

ascending at precisely the same angle as that by which he
has come thus far, has descended. The second or upper pas-
sage is of the same dimensions as the ﬁrst, which continues
its course downwards to a subterranean chamber in the solid,
rocky basis of the Pyramid ; but it wants the ﬁnish and polish
of the ﬁrst passage : its length is rather more than a hundred

feet). (,Here we came to the entrance of the “Grand Gal-

Vlery,” asnit has been termed, the entrance to “the Well,”

which communicates with the lower or ﬁrst passage, being
on our right hand, and another passage branching off heri
zontallyfand leading to What 15 called the “ Queen’ s Cham-
wher,”he_1n"g directly before us. It was at this point that our
gallant friend the Turk gave out, and pufﬁng and sweating
with heat and fatigue, he bestowed his malediction upon
Frank curiosity, and as soon as possible made his way out
again into the open air. We, however, continued our ascent,
at the same angle of 27°, through the “Grand Gallery,”
which is a wide and lofty opening, extending to a considera.
ble length, until we came to a horizontal passage, which, as
Wilkinson says, was once closed by four portcullises of gran-
ite, sliding in grooves of the same kind of stone; they served
to conceal and stop the entrance to the “ King’s Chamber.”
This is the principal apartment in the Great Pyramid, and,
l. assure you, has an imposing effect upon the mind, as well
from its size,* as from the consideration, that here we may be,
and probably are, standing in the very burial chamber of the
king who built this mausoleum for his own remains. We spent
seine time in gazing at the strange scene which the half-
Iighted chamber presented, with its medley of occupants, the
wild and bright black-eyed Bedawin,the turbaned Turk, and
the fair-faced Anglo-Saxons; and the Arab pertinaeity in beg-

‘ The length of the King’s Chamber is 3} it. 4 in.; its breadth 17 it. 7 in.;
its height 19 ﬂ. 2 in. The rocfis ﬂat, and formed of nine long blocks ofgranite,
which extend from side to side. The side-walls are also of granite blocks in
six regular courses, admirably united at the joints, and perfectly even and polished.

