G 0 NTENTS. X11!

PABI
to the Jews—Its Foundation and Objects.—Converts.—Jews‘ Place of Wailing—Mar
eive Masonry—Ruined Areh.—Lepers’ Huts.—Seene of Misery and Woe—Moham-
medan Population—Their Chernoter.—The Christians in Jerusalem.—Deplorable and
Disgrneeful Hatred and Dissensions.—Social State and Condition on the Whole.—Iiope
forthanture, . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .267

LETTER XV.

GETHSEMANE—TEE MOUNT OF onus.

Necessity of omitting runny Things for Want of Room—A Walk outside of the City.—
Vin Dolorosa.—Pess out of St. Stephen’s Gate—Scene from this Point.—Deeeend into
the Valley of Jehoshnphst.——Cross the Kedron.——Garden of Gethsemane—Deep and
Solemn Feelings—Our Lord’s Agony.—Thoughts respecting the Last Days of His Ps.s«
sion.—Ascent ot‘ the Mount of Olives—An Inoident.—Desolateness of the Scene.—
Ruins on the Summit.——The Foot-print in the Rock—Pilgrim Devotion.—Question as
to the Place of our Lord’s Ascension—View Adopted—Panorama from the Minaret
near by.—Mnsings on the Monte! Olives—David and his ltehellious Sam—Our LORD
J zsus Cnnisr.~Wept over Jerusalem—His Solemn Words—Return to the City.—Ta1k
with Tommaso.—Sadncss of the Scene at Evening.—A Walk around the Walls Outside.—
The Citadel, Pool of Gihon, Mount Zion, Valley of Hinnom.—Tho Pool of Silonm,
Fountain of the Virgin.—Sorne General Remarks inConclusion.—Striking Natural Fea-
tures of Jerusalem Anciently.~—Question as to the Population it was Capable of Con-
taining—Probable Result, . . . . . . . . . . . . . 286

LETTER XVI.

CALVABY AND THE HOLY SEPULCEBE.

Avownl of Preference for the Opinions of Antiquity.—Bearing on the Questions Proposed.
—Is the Holy Sepulchre rightly placed by Tradition, or not ‘I—Description or the Present
Church—Where Shuttle—The Court—The Interior.—Traditionary Localities—Eﬂ‘ect
Produced on the Mind.—Tho Sepulchre.——Present Appearance—Mount Calvary.—
Tomhs underneath—Examination of the Question at Issue.—Scriptural Statement.—
What is Certain—Present Church is within the Walls, Calvary was without—Difﬁculty
in Consequence.—Topogruphica1 Arguinent.—Josephus’s Statements.—Points to be de<
termined.—Tower of Hippicus, where situate—Position of the Gate Genneth.—Course
of the Second Well.—~Akra and the Tyropoeon.—Result of the Examinetion.—Armxment
from History and Tradition—Its Value—Knowledge, Sentiments, Position, Character,
etc., of the ﬁrst Chﬁstinns.—-Reign of Hadrian.—\Vhat was done in Jerusalem.—Con-
slantine and the Bishop of J ernsnlem.—Reeovery of the Holy Sepniehre.—-Invention or
the Cross—Basilica of Constantine—Why should we not believe in the Verity of the
Holy Sepulehre i—Evil Characteristics of the Present Age.—Claims of the Early Chris-
tin-us upon our Sympathy and Cnndor.vDr. Robinson’s strictures on ltlnearius and his
Clergy oensured.I—Conclusion.—PuSSages quoted from Bartlett, Fergusson and Wilson, 315

