124 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

patience for a little while, to a brief notice of one or two
other matters on the western bank of the Nile.

Passing by the Memnonium or Remesseum, the small
temple to the east, called Deir cl M'edz’ne/L, from having been
the abode of the early Christians, and the temple-palace (as
it is termed) of Kurneh, which are not, by any means, unwor-
thy notice, but hardly require attention here, in the midst of
so many other more imposing ruins in Thebes, I feel that it
would hardly be right to omit all mention of the great temple
at Medinet Habﬁ, and the Colossus, with which we are fami-
liar under the name of the “Vocal Memnon.” The ruins
of the temple are easily visited in the course of a day, and
strike the attention the more forcibly, from their extent,
character, and historical associations. Like all the ruins of
Egypt, these are in the midst of surrounding objects, which
offend the eye and the taste, and afford clear evidence of the
degradation of the present race of inhabitants. Heaps of
dirt and rubbish, the half thrown down mud huts of the vil-
lagers, who usually took up their residence in the midst of
the old temples and ruins, and the here-and-there scattered
proofs of a miserable existence in the squalid children, shout-
ing for bakhshish, and the few goats which constitute all the
wealth of their parents, give an air of desolation to the scene,
which I am unable to describe, and which can hardly fail to
impress the beholder with sad reﬂections. This temple-palace
dates back, according to Wilkinson, to the time of Remeses
III., B. C. 1235. We ﬁrst passed What are called lodges, and
a1rived at a lofty building, resembling a pyramidal tower on
either hand: these, together with the oblong court and gate-
way at the end, and the chambers on the inner or north side,
gave us a good idea of the pavilion of the king, who made
his royal residence 1n a locality such as this. Of the sculp-
tures and decorations of this portion, time does not permit
me to speak, much as they would strike the antiquary, and
the admirer of Egyptian Works of art: it may interest you

