THE HOSPICE 0N MOUNT CARMEL. 453

consular ﬂags and some other indications of activity in the
town seem to point to a revival of its former commercial
importance. Passing directly through the‘town, we rode
over the beautifully verdant and fertile plain between it and
Mount Carmel, with the sea as its north-eastern border.
A steep pathway leads to the summit where the convent is
situate, and it took as fully twenty minutes to make the
ascent :* as you approach the lofty stone hospice, it looks
grandly and imposingly down upon the hill-sides and the
blue Mediterranean; and when you draw near to it, and
when actually you are on the platform of Carmel’s north-
easterly foreland, on which it is built, you are both astonished
'at the size, extent, and architectural beauty of the ediﬁce,
'and at the patient labor and skill which succeeded against
all obstacles in erecting a house for the Wayfarer, the sick,
and the weary traveller. We spent two days here, enjoying
the hospitality of the good brother Clement, whose attentions
were marked by courtesy and consideration which we can
never forget, especially as one of our party was quite ill
with an attack of fever. We felt, as all who have been
here must feel, that there is no more delightful place in the
world than this elevated, airy, and picturesque spot. The
building devoted to the uses of travellers is very large; it is
most admirably furnished with all that can cheer or gratify, as
sofas, French bedsteads, bureaus, soft beds, 550., &c.; the
pharmacy is of good size and well supplied with medicines,
one of the brothers being instructed in medical science so as
to minister in all ordinary cases; the walks about the
mountain-top are very pleasant; one always has a fresh
breeze from the sea, and from every point there is always a
lovely view of the surrounding country, or of the broad,
deep sea whose waters ever wash the base of Carmel’s Mount.
1 fear that I shall appear to be making too much of such

* Dr. Wilson, following Schubert, gives the height of Carmel as rather more
than 1200 ft. above the sea.

