362 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

by a large subterraneous passage down into the pools. Indie
way, beﬁne it arrives at the pools, there is an aqueductof
brick pipes, which receives part of the stream, and carries it
,by many turnings and windings about the mountains, to Je.
rusalem.”* '

It was getting late in the afternoon when we arrived in the
vicinity of Bethlehem, on our road homeward to the Holy
City; and as it was necessary to reach Jerusalem before sun-
set, at which time the gates are closed, and no strangers per-
mitted to enter, we gave little heed to most of the merely
traditionary localities in and about the town, and devoted our
time and attention principally to those which have strong
claims on the conﬁdence and sympathies of the Christian.
We rode through a part of the town, and proceeded at once
to the large and rather imposing church built over the place
of our Lord’s nativity: it is directly by the side of and eon-
nected with the extensive convent at Bethlehem, whieh is
occupied by the Greeks, Latins, and Armenians, who, so it
{as I know, live together in greater harmony than unhappily
is the casein Jerusalem. Passing through a very low and
narrow portal, we entered the spacious church, walked slowly
forwards towards the eastern end, where mass was being per.
formed, and followed our guide to the spot where tradition
attests that our blessed Saviour was born. To one unas-
customed to the singularly ill-judged and tasteless manner in
which holy places have been overladen with ornaments, the
grotto of the nativity would appear to have small claims on
the attention. I confess, that not only here, but almost every-
where in the Holy Land, there is much, far too much, which
annoys the traveller, and sometimes urges him to the convic-
tion that none of the traditions in favor of particular localities
have any great value or importance. The strong desire—in
former days amounting almost to a passion—for building
churches and erecting altars over sacred and revered Spots, as

* Maundrell’s “ Journey,” &c., April lst.

