THE GREAT PLAIN 0F ESDRAELON. 4-33

hold the plantations of cotton here and there, the patches or
ﬁelds of durah or millet,* the banks and beds of streams and
of rivulets which go to ﬁll up, at certain seasons, “that an-
cient river, the river Kishon ;” and when you look around you
at the hills and mountains which everywhere greet the eye,
and seem as it were to be keeping watch and ward over this
great valley. Bear with me, then, if I do not attempt to de-
scribe in detail, but simply to tell you of our progress across
the plain, even to the resting-place where I am now writing.
On our left we had a glimpse of the village which Dr. Robin-
son thinks is identical with the Taanach of Scripture, and to
the north-west of this we could distinguish the site of ‘El
Lejjun, Legio or Megiddo of Holy Writ; while still farther
in the same direction the blue outline of Carmel’s range
bounded the View. On our right, the heights of Gilboa were
plainly visible; and passing several small villages, we arrived
at Zerin at a quarter before nine. This, there is little doubt,
is the ancient Jezreel, and is a very interesting and not un-
lovely spot, situate, as it is, on a small and slightly elevated
conical hill, only a short distance from our road. Its con-
nection with Gideon, the mighty warrior, on whom the
Spirit of the Lord came and. who fought so successfully
against the Midianites and Amalekites, and the children of
the East; with Ahab and Jezebel, his wicked wife, whose
horrible end is related in the Word of God; with John, the
zealous avenger of God’s truth ; with Elijah, the holy
prophet of Jehovah; and in later days with the Christian

‘ “ The great valley of Esdraclon is certainly the plain most remarkable, both
physically and historically, in the Holy Land. . . . . . . . We observed far
more culture in the great valley, in general, than the accounts of travellers had
led us to expect. We were rather surprised at this, when we adverted to the
paucity of agricultural villagesin our view. The crops which are raised in it
are of barley, wheat, millet, beans, chick-peas, sesamum, lentiles, ﬂax and
cotton. Wild oats, top, are found growing among the ﬁelds of grass, or rather
herbs, of which very little care is taken. The valley through the whole of its
extent, as far as it appeared to our view, is nearly destitute of trees of every
kind.”—-Wilson’s “ Lands ofthe Bible,” vnl. ii. p. 84, B5.

19

