236., EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

GOd’s Holy Word'than it‘had been my lot at any previous time
to attain. How ‘forcible appeared now the expressions of
Scripture respecting what this stiff-necked people were com-
pelled to undergo !

"A desert land . . . the waste howling wilderness.”

“That great and terrible wilderness, wherein were ﬁery serpents, and sear
pious, and drought, where there was no water.”

“Wherefore have ye made us to come up out of Egypt, to bring us in unto this
evil place? It is no place of seed, or of ﬁgs, or of vines, or ofpome-
granates; neither is there any water to drink.”

“ The soul of the people was much discouraged because of the way. And the
people spake against God, and against Moses, Wherefore have yc
brought us up out of Egypt to die in the wilderness? for there is no
bread, neither is there any water; and our soul loatheth this light bread."

" While the meat was yet in their mouths,
"The wrath of God came upon them,

And slew the fattest ofthem,

And smote down the chosen men of Israel.

Therefore their days did he consume in vanity,
And their years in trouble."

" Neither said they, where is the Lou!)
That brought us up out ofthe land of Egypt,
That led us through the wilderness,
Through a land of deserts and of pits,
Through a land ofdrought, and of the shadow of death,
Through a land that no man passed through,
And where no Indian dwelt 1”"

Would God that there were such an heart in Christian
people that they would ponder upon these things, and that
they would consider and know that He will not at all spare
the wicked, nor suffer to go unpunished the guilty nations who
break His eommandments or set at naught His holy will!
,Towards mid-day, We usually halted for a short time to
lunch and to give our camels an opportunity to browse awhile.
upon the prickly shrubs and stunted bushes which are found
in considerable abundance nearly everywhere in the desert.

’* Dent. xxxii. [0; viii. 15; Numb. xx. 5; xxi. 4, 5; Ps. lxxviii. 31, 33; Jer;
ii. 6. .

