384 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

Jordan, and for the purposes of the Mohammedan pilgrims,
it answers just as well as if it were in its true place, which,
though he died and was buried in the land of Moab, over
against Beth-pear, “no man knoweth of unto this day.”
We stopped a few minutes at Neby Musa, principally to get
a drink of water, which is reputed here to be full of virtues.
Without reﬂecting at the time, and seeing no one about the
place, I jumped off my horse, and, the door or gate being
wide open, was just going to enter the sacred precincts, when
the dragoman caught me by the arm in a sort of terror at
the risk I was running, assuring me that it was almost death
for a Christian to dare to cross the" threshold. A moment
after, a gaunt, black-eyed, fanatical-looking fellow came out,
and glancing 'at me with no friendly greeting, gave me to
understand how readily he would have defended the sanctu-
‘ary of which he was the keeper, had he caught a “Christian
dog” anywhere within the walls. As to the water, it may
have many occult virtues, but for the purpose of drinking it
was detestable, and I had no wish to dispute the possession
of it with the Mohammedan owners.

About noon we descended the last of the range of hills over
which the road passes, and riding over the saltish plain near
the sea, we reached the northerly end of it in about half an
hour. Independently of the many recollections connected
with the eventful history of the cities of the plain, and the
awful punishment sent upon them, of which this lake is a
perpetual witness, the sea itself is very remarkable. It is
'situate in a deep valley, four thousand feet below the Holy
City,* surrounded by mountains and sterile, desolate hills,

* “ We found the difference of level, in other words, the depression of the sur-
face of the Dead Sea, below that of the Mediterranean, to be a little over 1300
feet. The height of Jerusalem above the former Sea, is very nearly three times
that of this diﬂ‘erence of level; While, at the same time, it is almost the exact
multiple of the depth of that see, of the height of its banks, and of the de—
pression of its surface.”—~Lieutennnt Lynch’s “Expedition to the Dead Sea,"
p. 440.

