THE CHURCH BUILT OVER. THE SEPULCHRE. 339

its existence till now; no one had imagined before that it and
the crosses of the two malefactors had been formally and
carefully buried ; no one could have guessed that now, after
nearly three centuries, they would be brought to light in per-
fect preservation; no one had pretended that the Christians
had all along kept the material cross in view, and looked
upon it with reverence ; not at all: it was quite anew thing,
and is to be judged of on far‘ different grounds from those on
which the other point at issue stands. This has every prob-
ability in its favor, independently of positive evidence; the
precise locality could not well be lost ;_ the natural features
of Calvary, and the rock tomb in the garden, could not easily
be erased; the natural feelings of every Christian man could
not let him forget the place of our Lord’s death and burial.

Constantine, whether right or wrong in his belief, that he
was moved by a Divine impulse, did not slacken in the work
he had taken in hand; nor was the zeal of the bishop and
clergy in Jerusalem a whit behind his own. “ A magniﬁcent
church, called at ﬁrst the Church of the Resurrection (Anas-
tasis), afterwards that of the Holy Sepulchre, rose on the
sacred spot hallowed by this discovery ; in which a large
part of the Christian world has addressed its unquestioning
orisons. It stood in a large open court, with porticoes on
each side, with the usual porch, nave, and choir. The nave
was inlaid with precious marbles ; and the roof, overlaid with
gold, showered down a ﬂood of light over the whole building;
the roofs of the aisles were likewise overlaid with gold. At
the farther end rose a dome, supported by twelve pillars, in
commemoration of the twelve Apostles ; the capitals of these
. were silver vases. Within the church was another court, at
the extremity of which stood the chapel of the Holy Sepul'~
chre, lavishly adorned with gold and precious stones, as it
were to perpetuate the angelic glory which streamed forth on
the day of the resurrection.”*

* Milman’s "History of Christianity,” p. 309.

