I

one EVENING. ENCAMPMENT.’ 239

rmt! in peremptory tones, demanded tribute for the privilege’of
serossing their desert, a demand, ’which on the whole, we deem-
ed it best to satisfy for the sake of peace, though ' {mm

. _ ,1¢~.-
large" party, we mlght easrly have resrsted all suc ' 1mg. 4 ”‘1‘

About ﬁve o’clock in the'afternoon, our thoughts beganlto': . :
beturned to our evening encampment, and between that and
sundown, we looked out rather anxiously for a goBJd plane'rto
pitehour tent in. This being obtained, the caravafahaltedgq «. »
and the tired camels being made to kneel, Were released iiofn
their loads, and turned loose 'to roll in the sand, and browse .
upon the various sorts of nutriment, which a kind Providence
has furnished for.them, even in the arid desertf In the course
of an hour or» so, we were comfortably seated in our tent
(which consisted of canvass,'upheld by a single pole in the
centre, and kept in its place (by numerous ropes,«-fastened to
pins driven into the sand), and were glad to sit down to our
dinner, and 'refresh our jaded bodies with food convenient.
Generally, we were too much fatigued, to do 'more than write
down some brief notes.of the day’s events; and,‘save, per-
haps, a strollpout to gaze at the bright stars, and listen, if.
sol ma.)r speak, to. the profound and solemn“ r‘stillness of the
vast desert, we rarely pretended to attempt~anything in the
way of occupation. At an early hour, we lay down on Our
beds, which were much like the ordinary cot bedsteads, only
arranged to fold up into small compass, andcomrnending our,
selves to. the protection of Him, who neither slumbers nor
'sleeps, we slept as only the weary and wayworn’ pilgrims‘rest,
(in 'security and peace. Sometimes in the night,1 wa‘s aroused
by the low-toned and monotonous songs of the Arabs, who
.take this method of keepingzthemselv'es awake, and manifest:-
ing- their watchfulness, or by~the braying of a donkey, or the
noisy‘ and sharp barkings of the wolﬁsh Bedawin curs.;,jbut
never had I orlmy companions any cause of- apprehension
from the: attacks of robbers, orithe thievish propensities of
many of the lawless inhabitants of the desert. . Moststhank-

