480 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

cherries, and bananas, as at the present day. At the foot
of the mountains are many ancient excavated sepulchres.”
The road between Saida and Beirut does not offer many
points of interest: I shall, therefore, pass it over with a
brief notice of the few things necdful to record. In less than
an hour’s time we reached the Nahr el-Auly, identiﬁed by
Dr. Robinson with the ancient Bostrenus: like the other
streams we had met with, it was considerably swollen with
rain and brought down a large volume of water to the sea.
Its vicinity is full 'of oleanders, lilacs, ﬁg-trees, &c., which
add very much to the interest and beauty of this “graceful”
river. Soon after this, the lofty peaks of Lebanon began to
loom up very grandly as we advanced, and the Phoenician
plain may be said here to terminate, inasmuch as the hills
inow draw close to the sea-side, and the road beyond passes
over a sandy beach and rocky points jutting out into the
Mediterranean. For several hours we skirted along the
sea-shore; passing over some remains of an ancient Roman
road ; stopping a little while at the Khan Neby Yunas, near
to which is the white-domed \ver of the prophet Jonah,
who, say the Arabs, was here cast out of the ﬁsh’s belly
upon the dry land; crossing the Nahr ed-Damur, the an-
cient Tamyms or Damom‘as; and about three o’clock ar-
riving at the broad sandy cape of Beirut. On our right, we
saw a large Maronite Convent on a lofty hill, which in the
distance appeared well; indeed, the range of hills which
extend along this region some few miles from the sea is
not Wanting in picturesqueness, so far as the view is con-
cerned, and many a village on the slopes or heights of the
hills attracted our notice, inducing us to believe that they
must be superior to those which we had seen and entered in
other parts of the country: the facts of the case would not
warrant this opinion, since these towns and villages are neat,
pretty, and thriving, only as seen in the distance, and not in

* “ Biblical Researches,” vol. iii. p. 420.

