430 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

lage, the fortiﬁcations being in ruins; but at one time it was
so strong, as to resist all the force of the notorious Jezzasr
Pasha, with ﬁve thousand men, for two months, when he re-
tired without accomplishing his object. Abdallah Pasha, in
1830, succeeded in taking the place, after a siege of several
months, and in order to prevent its being a stronghold in fu-
ture for rebels, razed the fortress, out down all the olive trees,
and left it, as we now saw it, a shapeless heap of ruins.
Continuing our route over the plain beyond Sanur, which is
not only very beautiful, encircled as it is by numerous hills,
but is very fertile and productive, we noticed here and there
the shallow ponds of water, alluded to by Dr. Robinson, as a
peculiarity of this plain, or valley, and ascending again the
hill-sides as we advanced, we were gratified, about two
o’clock, with a noble view of the region of country towards
which we were journeying, the mountains, or heights about
Nazareth forming not the least interesting feature in the
scene. We rode through the large village of Kubatieh, sur-
rounded by its extensive and fruitful olive groves, and wind-
ing our way through a deep, stony valley, we arrived at
Jenin at four o’clock. Here We determined to halt for the
day, and selecting a gentle rise west of the town, we pitched
our tent, and prepared to make ourselves comfortable for the
night. But we were not allowed to do so without remon-
strance: ﬁrst some of the town’s-people came and. annoyed us
very much by staring into the tent, putting their hands upon
things, trying to frighten us with horrible tales of robbers
&c., and warning us of the ‘necessity of having additional
guards; we, however, paid no attention to them, leaving An-
tonio to settle the matter in his own way. Now it so hap-
pened, that this worthy, a year ago, had met with an adven.
ture here, which he is not likely soon to forget. It appears
that he was induced to take guards at J enin, as it is' the usual
plan; they were furnished by the governor, and of course,
supposed to be trustworthy; but during the night they man.

