THE TOWN OF BETHLEHEM. 365

tim in respect to the Grotto of the Nativity reaches back at
least to the middle of the second century,—that Justin Mar-
tyr speaks of it distinctly, and that Origen and Eusebius
mention it in terms which leave no question as to the judg-
ment of the early Christians on this matter, to say nothing
of the testimony of later writers. But the subject branches
out too widely for further consideration here: I have, too,
said sufﬁcient on the general topic of the value of tradition
in another place; and it little needs that I weary you with a
repetition of the vieWS there expressed.

My companions visited several spots which, as I had ‘10
conﬁdence in their genuineness, so I had no particular desire
to see them ; and while waiting for them, I strolled out a lit-
tle way into the town. I was surprised to see the solidity,
size and apparent comfort of the houses, as well as to notice
several new buildings in course of erection, and a busy activ-
ity and industry, which spoke well for the prosperity of the
inhabitants. An extensive manufacture of objects of curi-
osity is here carried on, and you can hardly get away we.
certainly did not—from Bethlehem without buying some
mother-of-pearl shells, curiously wrought and illustrated with
quaint devices, a pearl-box or two, some crosses or cruciﬁxes,
beads, articles made from olive-wood, or the fruit of the dom-
palm, &c., &c. The population of the town is probably
about four thousand, and they are all, with hardly an excep-
tion, Christians; Dr. Robinson gives them a rather bad char-
acter, representing them as “ a restless race, prone to tumult
and rebellion, and formerly living in frequent strifes with their
neighbors of Jerusalem and Hebron.” Others—particularly
Kinglake, in his Eb'then—indulge in a great deal of poetic
enthusiasm in regard to the beauty and liveliness of the girls
of Bethlehem. I will not pretend to deny but what his
notions may be well founded; I can only say, that I was not
struck with any superior beauty or intelligence in those Whom
it was my privilege to meet. In truth, as you Will probably

 

