CLEOPATRA'S NEEDLES. 17

serve, gives the name—the least legible word in the whole
inscription—as “ Publius” instead of Pompey; and expresses,
in regard to its erection, the opinion that “ this column silently
records the capture of Alexandria by the arms of Diocletian
in AD. 296, when the rebellion of Achilleus had obliged him
to lay siege to the revolted city.”*

Considering this question, then, settled, as far as it ever
will be, I hope it may not be improper to' express a sort of
half-lurking regret that the name of Pompey is deprived of
all honor in connection with this noble column, and some-
thing of a wish that in this, and a few other cases, tradition
might triumph over learning, or rather might be found to
accord with sound learning and the rules of evidence. Cus-
tom and habit are very strong, and we 'may be sure that this
column, though it has no connection with Pompey the Great,
or most probably with any one else of the same name,1' will
not be called Publius’s or Diocletian’s Pillar; and we shall
still hear of it, as we have been accustomed to do even from
childhood, and still read of it, under the title of the best one of
the ﬁrst triumvirate. Equally true is the remark in regard
to the Obelisks, commonly known as Cleopatra’s Needles,
since, While in fact they do not appear to have any connec-
tion whatever with a female of that name, they have some
how or other got the present soubrz'quet, and most probably
will retain it, in spite of learning and demonstrative evidence
that they belong to some old Eg ptian monarch who-lived

‘ more than three thousand years ago.

It was a part of our day’s excursion to visit these celebrated
obelisks. Leaving Pompey’s Pillar, and returning by nearly
the same road, and passing several gardens of palms, oranges

‘ See Gibbon’s “ Decline and Fall,” &c., vol. i. p. 205, Am. Ed.

1' Tischcndorﬁ' quotes the opinion of Von Prokesch, who thinks that Pompey
may have breathed forth his mighty soul at the foot of this pillar; and that in
this Way it has received his name, as has the grave ofThemistocles the renown
of his, on the shores .ofthe Piracus.—-” Travels in the East,” p.10, note. i

