HUTs OF THE LEPERS. 28']

of Mr. Williams—3“ and hard by the city gate are the Lepers’
Huts, a set of miserable low clay hovels, the habitations of
these unfortunates, who are now found only at Jerusalem and
Nablous. 'Dr. Schultz had occasion to visit them, and ascer-
tained their numbers to be twenty-seven, men, women and
children; Mohammedans. They are allowed to intermarry,
and thus propagate this loathsome malady, which is heredi-
tary. They receive a miserable pittance for their mainte-
nance, from the government, which they are fain to eke out
by begging. And a most pitiable and disgusting sight it is
to see the poor wretches, laid at the entrance of the gates
of the city, asking alms of the passengers, with outstretched
hands or stumps, in various stages of decay, under the inﬂu-
ence of this devouring disease, for which, I believe, no eﬂ'ee-
tual remedy is known. I saw no case of that whiteness
which is mentioned in Scripture, as the symptom of this
disorder ; but I own that my eyes shrunk with horror from
the contemplation of such misery, and I avoided contact with
them as I would with one plague-stricken.”* You may be
sure that I was not less struck with the scene than the au-
thor just quoted. It was a deplorable and almost disgusting
sight, and the importunity of their cries for alms was, to me,
distressing. About a dozen were squatted down in the dirt,
men, women and children, a fair little child, in whom the
loathsome disease was not yet developed, playing in the midst;
and the moment they saw a stranger approaching they started
up, most hideous objects, some of the older women, particu-
larly, and began to beg very piteously. For the sake of that
pretty child, whom I looked upon with the deepest compas-
sion, I gave them an amount which excited among them
cries of pleasure, and turned away from the sad sight, with
a heart, more than ever, deeply impressed with the goodness
and mercy of God toward me and mine.

The Turkish or Mohammedan population of Jerusalem,

* Williams’s “ Holy Ctty,” vol. i., Supplement. p. 24.

