cmmcri SERVICES t IN JERUSALEM. i399

ﬁlled with seats,'the 'windows at4either end shedding a clear
'light upon the ihterior. The chancell recess is somewhat
spacious, and the altar rather prominent, and a noble Gothic
window, with its stained glass, lets in a very attractive light,
especially when the sun strikes 'it with its brilliant rays in
the latter part of the day. The reading-desk and pulpit are
at the right hand of the- chancel ; the vestry is on the oppo-
site side. The church would seat, I presume, about four
hundred, perhaps more. Alas, that I should say it, the at-
tendance is small, and never, if I may judge from the occa-
sions on which I have been present, equals one half what the
church could easily accommodate. The services are in He-
brew, German, and English. I was very much interested
in the early sixo’clook service in Hebrew every day, and was
very glad to have the opportunity to join in the Liturgy in a
language so appropriate to Jerusalem and the children of
Israel. What, however, has made a deeper impression than
all upon my feelings individually, has been the fact that Iwas
privileged, on the ‘ invitation of Mr. Nicolayson, to read
Evening Prayer on Sunday last, the First after Easter. It
was a very lovely afternoon, and was an occasion which I can
never forget. I, an invalid from a land many thousand miles
off,-——I, a poor, unworthy ministering servant of the LORD
JEsus CHRIST, was permitted to stand and in His name read
the Holy Gospels in the ears of the congregation, and offer up
the prayers and praises of His people in the very city where
He once walked the earth, and where He died to atone for our
sins. You will believe me that my heart was full of emo-
tion, and you will not wonder that tears of mingled thanks-
giving and mourning bodewed my eyes. 0 may the aspira-
tions of that hour he sanctiﬁed to my soul’s eternal welfare l
0 may He, without whom we can do nothing, strengthen
me for the work which he has given me to do!

And now, my dear 8., let me say adieu for the present:
all our preparations are made to leave Jerusalem: my Pil-

