438 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

retired and woody slopes of Tabor, Somewhere near its sum-
mit, even though it was in general devoted to the purposes of
a town and fortress. I would by no means insist upon the
correctness of the view entertained for centuries past, that
this is the mountain, xzxz' ‘lelar, referred to by the Evangelist,
when he tells us that “after six days. Jesus taketh with Him
Peter, and James, and John, and leadcth them up into a high
mountain apart by themselves,” and that there He was
transﬁgured before them; since it is not certainly correct, and
the tradition is not so ancient and clear as to Warrant our re-
ceiving it without hesitation, when the strong reasons urged
by Dr. Robinson against it are duly considered. Still,
musing upon that great event in our Lord’s life and ministry,
and remembering the gracious words which were then utter-
ed “in the holy mount,” “when there came such a voice to
Him from the excellent glory, This is my beloved Son, in
whom I am well pleased ;” “ hear ye Him ;”1L I could not but
wish that the tradition might be correct, and that I too might
be worshipping my Lord and my God from the very mountain
consecrated by His presence, and the glory of His transﬁgur-
ation. On the whole, you will let me, I trust, adopt the
sentiments of a recent German traveller: “Even were the
tradition in error, it would be difﬁcult to renounce it; for
the mountain to which it clings stands like a moment of
inspiration, transformed into an earthly form, and deposited
as a memorial-stone by God, in the creation, as the altar of
the land, which itself is a temple of God. He who sees it at
the present day, believes, as ﬁrmly as if an angel had told
him, that the beautiful mountain, whose brothers stand at a
distance, as if in admiration, bears a sacred» mystery within
it, and has been sacredly endowed by Him who made it so
splendid. But it has displayed its mystery, it has fulﬁlled
its object, if it indeed was the scene of the transﬁguration of
the Son of God. Fifteen centuries have celebrated the mem-

‘ Mark ix. 2. 1' 2 Pet. i. 17, 18; Matt. xvii. 5.

