20 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

for some conspicuous position in London. It is both more
ancient, and perhaps of more durable material, than the obe-
lisk of Luxor, which adorns the Place de la Concorde in
Paris, and which was brought thither at an expense of time,
labor and money, which quite shames the public spirit of any
other civilized nation. Lord Nugent* is one of the English
travellers, who deeply regrets what he considers culpable neg-
ligence on the part of his country: Sir Gardner WillrinsOn,
however, is of opinion, that the obelisk is too much injured
and defaced to be worth the expense of transportation, and
declares that the project has been Wisely abandoned.

There is something very impressive in the sight of such
immense blocks of stone, cut out of quarries nearly eight
hundred miles distant, and transported and erected with a
care and skill, which utterly exceed the power of the present
race of inhabitants. Modern times are much given to boasting,
and certainly some very surprising exhibitions of mechanical
skill have been presented to the admiration of the World; but
I am sure that nothing is so astonishing, and yet so little
known, as the means by which the genius of ancient Egyp-
tian architects accomplished the works which we now see, and
seeing, cannot help admiring and wondering at. What ma-
chines must they have had ; what energy to direct, what
capacity to combine, what knowledge of natural philosophy,
to apply to their proper end the means and facilities of labor!
and how surprising does it seem, that we know absolutely
almost nothing, save what is inferred from their remains, of
What this mighty people were capable of doing, and, of course,
of teaching to the world at large!

Yesterday being the Lord’s day, I was happy to have the
opportunity of attending divine service, in the small building
in-the outskirts, at present in ‘use for the English congrega-
tion. The attendance was small, so much so as to be dis-
couraging, I should think, to the reverend brother who occupies

‘ “ Lands Glassical and Sacred,” vol. i. p. 64.

‘

