EXCURSION TO THE FRANK MOUNTAIN. 349

or walk in any direction outside of the walls, without meet-
ing with something to remind him of the Scriptures of truth,
and the history of the chosen people. I was rather struck
with this fact, after some days spent in visiting and wander-
ing amid the touching, as well as sad, localities about Beth-
lehem, the Jordan, the Dead Sea, etc. It will, perhaps, be a
relief to the long story which I have been telling you, in some
previous letters, about Jerusalem, if you will go with me for
a while in an excursibn to the points alluded to above. I can
hardly dare hope for it, but I should be delighted if I were
able to convey to you the' same pleasure which it was my lot
to enjoy in a visit to Bethlehem and its vicinity.

In company with two other gentlemen from England, I
left Jerusalem early, one clear and bright morning, for an ex-
cursion to the “ Frank Mountain,” as it is termed, intending.
on our return, to take in Bethlehem and some points between
it and Jerusalem. We passed out of the Jaffa or Bethle-
hem gate, and descending the hill, and leaving the extensive
pool of Gihon on our left, between us and the wall, we turned
toward the south. We had a ﬁne glimpse of the deep valley
of Hinnom, with its fertile spots and pretty garden enclosures,
as we rode along the hill-side, on the west, and gradually
came upon the high table-land toward the south, as one looks
in the direction of Bethlehem. Though not particularly
striking, the scene was by no means deﬁcient in interest and
attractiveness: looking back, we had the Holy City spread
out before our eyes, in part only, Mount Zion rearing its lofty
head, and shutting out from View much that otherwise would
have been visible. On our left, the hill-sides, terraced, and
thus made serviceable for cultivation, suggested many a
thought of the rural life of Judea. The “Mount ol’Oﬂ‘ence,”
on the opposite side of the valley, and the “Hill of Evil
Counsel,” nearer, and to the south of the vale of Hinnom,
gave rise to reﬂections not more sad than painful; for we
thought of the wisest of monarchs, who is said here to have

