198 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

and effectually. After giving them a good lecture, I let them
‘go, and in :a few minutes rejoined our party ahead, having
been taught a useful lesson as to the actual hatred instilled
into the minds of the young against Christians. I understood
now, pretty Twell, the instruction which is given in many'
schools in Cairo, as summed up in the prayer quoted by Mr.
Lane (vol. ii. p. 424), and used every day; and I have little.
doubt, that if the present Pasha suﬂ'er it, we shall see a re-
turn, in part at least, to the outrage and insult manifested
against Christians in former days, before Mohammad Ali’s
rule in.Egypt. ‘

There are a number of other things of which I might
speak, and which, perhaps, I might succeed in making inter-
esting to you. ,The environs of Cairo have several features,
not wanting in attractiveness} and as we have spent a longer
time in the metropolis than we intended, owing to circum-
stances of a private nature, we have visited pretty thoroughly
all the objects worth seeing, and some that do'not repay one
for his trouble; We have ridden to Bﬁlak quite frequently,
and explored that busy suburb of Cairo with much interest:
we have been again to old Cairo, to see the mosk of ’Am,
whiqh is in ruins, but undergoing repair, and to make a pil-
grimage to the Grotto of the Virgin, over which the Copts
have built a large church, and in which they devoutly believe
the Virgin Mother to have nursedand watched over the Holy
Child, during the sojourn in Egypt. We have wasted some
precious hours in looking at the Nilometer, on the island of
Rhoda. We have had a‘delightful ride out to Mohammed
Ali’s palace and gardens at Shubra, where we spent several
hours, in looking about and enjoying the fragrance of the
ﬁ0wers, the lemon and orange groves, &c. We have spent
two days in excursions to the large and imposing tombs in
the vicinity of Cairo, viz., those of the Memlook kings, of
different dynasties, that of Mohammed Ali and his family,
and others in the neighborhood. We have had occasion, both

