CREW on ‘THE “.1313.” 75

I candidly believe that our friend Sherkawy is one of the few
fair and honorable men who command boats on the Nile.
Our crew is a rather nondescript set; some are Arabs, and
of a lighter or tawny hue, others are Nubians, and almost
coal black, with features which rehder it difﬁcult to distin-
guish them from negroes, besides being very like to them in
other respects. They are a light-hearted, good-natured race,
agreeing excellently 'wellitogether, and working with good-
will and a patient endurance which is' rather remarkable, but
as I have before noticed,'without accomplishing any great
amount after all. Full of merriment and noise, like all par-
tially civilized nations, they‘ are extravagantly fond of amuse<
merits, however simple and childish, as they might appear to
us; they work with a son g,they are pleased with a rude
strain of music, of the plainest character, they laugh éXce's-
sively at jests of the most ridiculous and pointless' description,
and, day after day, the same song, the'samé jest, the same
monotonous'music, please them just as' much as ever. If a
rope is to be pulled, an car to be handled, "a pole to be used,
the boat to be dragged by means of a long tow-line, they do
all with a simple song, in which is a strange mixture of reli-
gion and profanity,* now calling upon Allah and Mohammed,
now bursting out into some buﬁ'oonery or indecency, now
laughing, now shouting and gesticulating, with an excite-
ment amounting almost to fury, till the end sought IS obtain-
ed, when a sigh of satisfaction ,is heard, followed by a pious
exclamation, and generally'a low laugh of gratiﬁed content-
ment. And thus they live, willing to work, and working with
cheerfulness, and, in general, ready obedience;_yet,‘ by no
means free from the vices of obstinacy, deéeit an‘d falsehood;
they make no pretensions to religious character; not one of
them knows how to read (the reis included); and I have
never seen a single individual take' the trouble to go through

"‘ See some curious illustrations of this' feature in Egyptian character in Mr.
Lane’s chapter on “ Music,” &c.——-“ 1110ch Egyptians,” 6m, vol. ii. p. 69—104.

