262 ' EGYPT AND THE HOLY IAND.

ing, andlthe people in a state of some eircitement. The cause
of all this, we'learned, was the departure of pilgrims to Neby
Mfrsa, or the tomb of the Prophet Moses, which, for conven-
ience’ sake, the Mohammedans have located on the west side
of the Jordan, about two hours from the Dead Sea. We
were rather glad not to have come in contact with these pil-
grims, for they are full of fanaticism, and on such occasions
seem to consider it a merit to insultand abuse Christians.
Between twelve and one, P.M., we arrived at a rather noted
locality, and one which affords a rather striking commentary
on the wretched condition of Syria, under the feeble govern-
ment of the Turks. Descending a steep hill into a valley,
not wanting in fruitfulness and beauty, we were surprised to
see on our right, and on the side of another hill, several large
stone ediﬁces, built evidently as towers of strength, and for
military occupation. Besides these, there were a number of
smaller stone houses, forming a large village, and, altogether,
admirably adapted for the uses to which they were devoted.
There was also, by the road-side, in good preservation, a solidly
built stone church, of considerable size, with the small win-
dows of the early style, and a handsomely Gothic-arched
doorway z—alas, that I should say it, it is now used for a
stable' It appears that in this 'locality, the noted robber
sheikh, Abﬁ Gosh, had his stronghold in former years. This
being the great“ highway between Jaffa and. the Holy City,
as well for caravans as for travellers, he made it a proﬁtable
business to levy contributions on all who passed this way‘;
and as he had some two hundred mounted men under his
command,'and had entrenched himself in a position from
which it was not very easy to drive him, he succeeded in
carrying on his robberies on a large scale, and almost with
impunity. The pasha of Jerusalem signally failed in every
attempt to put him down by force. When Ibrahim Pasha
was in Syria, Abl’l Gosh was quite submissive to the power
of that extraordinary man; and during the. period of the

