462 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.,

toward Carmel, Akka, the plain, the hill-sides, the-sea, and
other points Which lay spead out before us.

The next morning, that is, the present one on which I am
writing, we were in the saddle by.six o’clock, the weather
being cloudy,"damp, and showery. In about an hour’s time,
we came to a small stream, gaily'rushing toward the see,
and having its banks covered with oleanders and other shrubs
and plants. Soon after crossing it, the rain came down in tor?
rents, and gave us a thorough drenching. We stopped alittle
while at Khan en-Nakura, to get a cup of coffee, (and were
well stared at by some Turkish soldiers lounging about. In
less than an hour, we came to a heap of rubbish, near thesea,
which Maundrell thinks indicates “the ruins of the castle o£
Scandalium,.taking its name from its founder, Alexander (the
.Great), whomthe Turks call Scander. The ruin is one hun-
dred and twenty. paces square, having a dry ditch encompass-
ing it; and from under it, on the, side next the sea, there
issues a. fountain of very fair water.” A little while after this,
noticing as we advanced the evident remains of a Roman road and
aqueduct, wecame to the Promontorium Album, a high, rocky
mount, jutting out into the sea, and very conspicuous to the
eye, even at a distance. Its name is derivedfrom “the color
of, its cretaceous slopes and strata, the rock here, as in other
promontories, jutting into the Mediterranean on.the south,
being the upper white chalk.” We rode up the lofty hill,
and were gratiﬁed with a very ﬁne View towards the north,
where a part of the long, narrow plain of Phoenicia, and its
.proudest cities, greet theeye of the beholder, and excite his
imagination with thoughts of the antiquity and greatness of
,that remarkable people, who once here exercised dominion,
We had found the ascent rugged and difﬁcult, but not danger-
ous; and we supposed that. the descent, or passage down into
the plain beyond, would be no more difﬁcult, to say the least;
but‘in this we were decidedly wrong; for after a little space,
we reached the edge of a precipice, looking down some hun-

