VASTNESS OF THE PYRAMIDS. 37

almost every breath, and enforced with a persevering action,
which must be seen and felt in order to be understood. But
notwithstanding this annoyance, from which there was no
escape, we could not restrain our astonishment, when we drew
near the Great Pyramid, beheld the immense blocks of stone,
and looked up from one corner at the towering mass which
rose to such a height above us. It is only in this position,
when you are standing close by, when you see the layers of
stone, examine and measure their length, breadth and thick-
ness, look along the sides, or upward toward the summit, no-
tice the diminutive appearance of some smaller pyramids near
the base, and see how very insigniﬁcant seem objects like one-
self, that the imagination becomes satisﬁed that the reality is
in no wise inferior to What it expected in these mighty monu-
merrts."‘= For myself, I can but say, that though I had sup-
posed a far different scene would meet the eye, and had pic-
tured to myself something quite unlike the reality, I now felt
all the effects which grandeur in nature or art produces upon

* For the beneﬁt of Londoners it has been said that the Great Pyramid cov-
ers the same space as Lincoln’s Inn Fields (=about 550,000 square feet,) and is
more than sixty feet higher than St. Paul’s Cathedral, which is sufﬁciently
near to serve for a comparison. You, as a New Yorker, will perhaps be better
able to comprehend the vast size and extent of the Great Pyramid by comparing
it with some well-known objects in our metropolis: suppose, then, that you are
standing by the N. W. corner of“ the Park; you walk down Broadway till you
come to the lower side of Park Place; thence across in a straight line, just leav-
ing out the Fountain, to Chatham street, and continuing till you take in the
American Bible House, the range ofhuildings and hotels, 8143., near by; thence
turning northwardly in a straight line to the corner of Chambers street and the
Park, on Centre street; and thence to the point of starting,—a space of about
12 acres in extent. As you stand here, just think of all this being one solid mass
ofstone, as a base for a pyramid! all the public buildings, the City Hall, oﬂices,
walks, trees, and so on, covered entirely! Next take a look at St. Paul’s, with
its spire piercing the clouds, and imagine, it'you can, that from this vast stony
basis, which you see before you, rises aloft a mighty structure, considerably more
than twice as high as that neighboring spire. Is not that a conception worthy
of some old Pharaoh, to ﬁll a space more than equal to the entire area of the
Park with stone, and to pile it up into the air to a point twice the height of the
highest tower or spire in our great city!

