CHRISTIANS OF THE FOURTH CENTURY. 343

teachers of Christian truth in the Holy City, put on record
such words as these respecting the bishop and clergy of J eru-
salem in the early part of the fourth century ?—“It would
perhaps not be doing injustice to the bishop Macarius and
his clergy, if we regard the whole as a well-laid and succesg-
ful plan for restoring to Jerusalem its former consideration,
and elevating his see to a higher degree of inﬂuence and
dignity.”* O deplorable and unheard of condition of a
Church! not one, from the bishop downward, through the
hundred or more clergy and the thousands of the laity, no:
one to lift up his voice against a lie! 0 wonder of wonders,
that the bishop and all his clergy should be fools as well as
liars! for not only do they falsely declare that here is the
site of Calvary and the Tomb, but they must needs locate
their falsehood in such a position as to make it evident to
the simplest reader of the Scriptures that it is a falsehood,
for it is inside the city walls! who can believe that the
Gospels were lost; or if not lost, that the bishop and his
clergy knew not how to read ; or if they knew how to read,
that they did not read, and when they tried their hands at
imposture, did not put their supposititious sepulchre outside
the walls beyond any doubt? who can believe that the
learned author of the “Biblical Researches,” erudite as he
is, knows more about Jerusalem and its localities in the
fourth century than Macarius, the bishop who presided more
than twenty years over the Church in the Holy City 7t and
who, unless it may he himself, is unaware how easily his
words might be retorted upon him, and some ignorant
and prejudiced person might charge him With all the evil he
has heaped upon the memory of the bishop and clergy of
Jerusalem? as something in this Wise: “it would not

‘ “Biblical Researches," vol. ii. p. 80.

f Macarius died (AD. 327) in the ﬁrst year of the building of Constantine’s
splendid Basilica ,- the ediﬁce was completed in about ten years, and the dedica-
tion was kept on the tricennalia of the emperor, in the year 336.

