HOPE FOR THE FUTURE. 487

the decayed and corrupt Churches of the East; and I doubt
not that the inﬂuence of intercourse with the pure branch of
the Church in the West, education, science, the diffusion of
the Holy Scriptures, the elevation of the people in a political,
social, and moral point of view, the training of the clergy in
the sound doctrineS'of the Church in its best days, will produce
the effect so much to be desired; and God, in His mercy, will
revive these long-decayed and almost lifeless branches; will
pour out His Spirit anew, and will render His Church in the
East as glorious for its soundness, obedience, purity, and
power of godliness, as it ever was in the days of its Apostles,
martyrs, and holy men of old. 0, that I might live to see
such results as these! and that I might be permitted to be-
hold the contrast between the trodden-down and well-nigh de-
stroyed inheritance of the father of the faithful, as it is now,
and the once more glorious and restored land and people of
God !

But let us not be “ ignorant of this one thing, that one day
is with the Lord as a thousand years, and a thousand years
as one day.” Our eyes may never see the change which we
daily pray for, but it will, nevertheless, certainly take place ;
for every word of Holy Scripture is true, and cannot fall to the
ground; every promise therein contained will and must have
its exact fulﬁlment. Whether it please God to hear the cry of
His people now and send deliverance, or whether it be ages hence,
it is none the less sure and steadfast that deliverance will be sent,
retribution will come upon the enemies of God’s truth, and the
whole world will see and know that it is the Lord who rules
in the affairs of men, and that He is the same yesterday, to-
day, and forever. Wherefore, let us comfort one another with
these words, until the day dawn, and the day-star arise in our
hearts. Let us hope in God, who never faileth them that put
their trust in Him; and let us commit our souls to Him, in
well-doing, as unto a faithful Creator. Amen.

