354 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

not as the Word of man, but as itiis“in truth the word of!
God, it Comes home, here on the spot, with a power and in
tensity far’b‘eyond any efforts of mine to express. 1 was
deeply impressed with this idea, more particularly, While we
were in the neighborhood of Bethlehem, and wandering over
the very hills and dales' so renowned in ancient Scripture
story. The past seemed to rise before me with a distinct-
nes‘s' quite surprising, and I could almost fancy that the
scenes and event‘s of several thousands of years long gone
by, were enacted but yesterday, so truthful and so graphic
appeared everything about me. Here, on these very hills,
methought, that fair and lovely boy once kept his father’s
sheep, he‘ whose fame has spread through all lands, and
whose name is dear to every Christian heart. Here, in these
valleys, and on the mountain sides round about Bethlehem,
he led the sheep' and the goats to pasture, and in the quiet
stillness of each passing day gave his thoughts and his
wishes to the praising and meditating upon the Lord his
God. It' Was near this very spot, over which we now were
treading, that the great and good Samuel, mourning for the
rejected Saul- with a great mourning, passed on his way to
Bethlehem, in order to sanctify Jesse and his sons, and call
them to‘ the sacriﬁce: the youthful David Eves, at ﬁrst, it
would seem, forgotten; but at the prophet’s express requi-
sition, he was sent fer. Leaving his ﬂock for a season, and
doubtless full of Wonder and guileless expectation, he came
to join the festal assemblage; and there the aged Samuel
ﬁrst beheld the manly boy, who was “ruddy and of a. fair
countenance,” and whom God, who looks not on the outward
appearance but‘ on the heart, had chosen to feed His peopie
Israel. What a change, We‘ may well suppose, came over
David, when having been anointed in the midst of his
brethren, “the Spirit of the Lord came upon him from that
day forward ;” how his mind expanded, his thoughts were
set upon great and holy things, his purposes and plans only

