214 neyp'r- AND THE HOLY LAND.

cymbals, and occasionally a procession of one or more priests

and-attendants through the church, carrying a censer, and.
putting the hand of blessing upon the heads of the congrega-

tion. When the patriarch entered, which was about half-

past six o’clock, he was preceded by several persons, one

bearing a large torch composed of three lights, and another

carrying. his staff, which wasr—rather singularly, as it ap-.

peared to _me-”—-Moses’s rod, and not the pastoral staff of the

episcopal oﬂice. . .In his hand he held a small Greek cross of

gold, with which he made the sign of the cross over those

who prostrated themselves before him, and which he heldout,
to the priests and others to kiss on these occasions. As a,
great part of the service was unintelligible to me, being in,
Coptic and Arabic, I amnot able to give any account of its.
character, further than to state, that it appeared to me to,
have much repetition, and, as in Romish churches, to be in-
great measure a dead letter; few seemed to be in any wise:
affected by solemn feelings, or to derive any fresh incitement

to leave off sin, and follow hard after righteousness. Many

used their beads, just as the Mohammedans and Romanists

do, and'fairly gabbled over the same words .for ﬁfty or a

hundred times, with the utmost speed, and very little atten-

tion to their meaning. The acolyths, and attendants, went
through with their duties as unceremoniously as possible, and

behaved generally in quite an unseemly manner.

, During: the Communion service, as a special favor, I was

admitted Within the chancel recess, and had an opportunity

to witness the consecration of the elements, and the mode of

administering the Lord’s Supper. Thebread, which is in

the shape of a round, cake, about three quarters of an inch

thick, and about three inches in diameter, is placed on a

gilded or gold dish, which has a napkin laid across the bot-

tom :' the wine is contained in a cup or vessel placed in the
topof a small cabinet, made of wood, about ten inches broad
Dy ﬁfteen high, and the priest, Who had a number of napkins

