404 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

this day ”* Here and there we ﬁnd traces of the ancient,
widely-extended cultivation. Waste and unreclaimed districts
are frequently met with; and, “except immediately round
the villages, the hills, once terraced and crowned with olive-
trees and vines, are uniformly bare or overgrown with wild
shrubs and ﬂowers—proofs far more than sufﬁcient that the
land still enjoys her Sabbaths, and only waits the return of
her banished children, and the application of industry com-
mensurate with her agricultural capabilities, to burst once
more into universal luxuriance, and be all that she ever was
in the days of Solomon.”’r

Meditating upon such topics as these, we passed Shafat on
our left, and about three o’clock, came to some curious
remains of arches, large stones, and other things indicative
of a town or city which stood here in former days. Possibly,
as has been suggested by a recent traveller, this may be
the place alluded to in Joshua, in speaking of the lot of the
tribe of Benjamin :—“Ataroth-adar, near the hill that lieth
on the south side of the nether Beth-boron”: Dr. Robinson
makes Atara, the Ataroth of Scripture, to be situate some
distance to the north of Ramah. On our right, not very far
from the road, we saw Anata, or Anathoth, where the Prophet
Jeremiah was born, and which was one of the cities of refuge.
Soon after, passing over the same stony and uneven road, at the
usual rate of a horse’s walk, we came to Er-Ram, or Ramah
of Benjamin (Josh. xviii. 25M which is situate on a hill, and is
a rather striking object, as seen from the road. To the west,
we could just catch a glimpse of the site of what Dr. Robinson
considers to be Gibeon; and still farther oﬂ‘, and to the north
of west, was.Beth~horon, as placed on his map. From the
position of Beth-heron, it would appear that there were two

* Dent. xxix. 28.

1‘ Lord Lindsay’s “Letters on Egypt," &c., p. 251. 1 Josh. xviii. 13.

§ The Rumah of Mount Ephraim, where Samuel was born, is supposed by

Dr. Robinson to be the present Sﬁba, lying to the west of Jerusalem.—“ Bib.
Rear,” vol. ii. p. 330-331.

