pnommmrms OF THE CASE. 335

dwell amid its ruins. Surely, Within a year or two, or less,
they could not have forgotten Calvary and the Lord’s tomb,
especially when they saw His words so fearfully veriﬁed in the
downfall of the guilty nation; and as they assembled once
more to worship God, glorifying His holy Name for all the
wonderful works which He had done, is it at all probable that
they would not look with special interest upon the site of His
death, whose blood the maddened people had invoked upon
themselves, to their utter ruin? At no time was the Church
in Jerusalem without its bishop and clergy, the teachers of
truth. Will it be believed that they did not know, and if
they knew, that they did not point out, the sacred localities
to the people, as inciting them to renewed diligence in follow-
ing in the footsteps of the Lord who purchased them with His
blood? VVill it be believed that, called upon, as they were,
to endure persecution and martyrdom for the name of Christ,
and accustomed, as we know they were, to look with rever-
ence upon places dear in their eyes, on account of the death
of some holy man, they would not regard at all, and would
even lose the knowledge of so sacred a place as that where the
Redeemer of the world died and was buried? To my mind,
the thing seems impossible.

Passing down the stream of time, we come to the reign of
Hadrian (A.D. 117—138), who was- so exasperated against
Judea and its people, in consequence of the tremendous and
bloody outbreak of the infatuated Jews, under Bar Cochebas
(Son of a Star), that he set no bounds to the rigor of the
punishment imposed. They were forbidden to visit or even
come near the Holy City; thousands and tens of thousands
were sold into slavery ; Jerusalem was desecrated by pagan
temples, and the impure rites of heathenism; and to complete
its misery, it was named after the conqueror, Elia Capitali-
mz. \Vith characteristic arrogance, the emperor took no pains
to discriminate between the Jew and the Christian in J erusa-
lem; he trampled upon the former, by erecting a temple to

