TEMPLE AND RUINS AT PHILAE; 91

mics should have chosen this remote and isolated spot for a
grand temple, when he gazes at. it for awhile, and notes its
admirable position, and its adaptedness to the purposes of
religious solemnities.

On landing, we clambered up a rather steep and high bank,
which brought us to the level of the ruined temples, and cer-
tainly presented before our eyes a most novel scene ; for the
whole island is devoted to the vast erections which have here
been made; and not a living creature, or a sign of life, can
anywhere be seen. All the glory of Philae has passed away
forever, and its hundreds of priests and priestly attendants,
and its crowds of worshippers, from the kings and nobles
down to the peasant and the slave, are gone, and the place
which once was theirs knows them now no more. Ourselves
were the only persons on the island, and we wandered through
the ruins, and looked upon the deserted halls and sanctuaries
of pagan idolatry, alone and unattended, save by one or two
little boys, who had swum across the channel on a log of
wood, to salute us with the ever-ready cry of bakhshz‘sh.’
We entered the ruins at the northerly end, and before looking
at any objects in detail, gave a cursory glance at the whole.
The principal building is the temple of the moon-crowned
Isis, the rooms of which we explored as well as we could;
we mounted a stone staircase, which led to the top of the
temple er second story, as I may call it. Here we looked
into a chamber with a narrow portal, and beheld a number
of hieroglyphics and sculptured ﬁgures, which, according to
Wilkinson, relate to the death and resurrection of Osiris, that

,he story, the " sea of the Kuno‘oz” is spoken of: and the learned translator, after in-
forming us that the term bahr is applied to “a large river,” as well as ” a sea,”
goes onto say :—“ The people who inhabit the banks and islands of the Nile
between Aswan and Wadee-es‘-Subooa are called the ‘Kunooz ;’ therefore that
portion of the Nile which ﬂows through their country may be properly called ‘ Bahr-
el-Kunooz, and Philae, which is in this part of the Nile, near the northern limits,
is nowcallcd ‘the island of Anas (or more properly Uns) el-Wujood.’ ”—Lane’s
“ Thousand-anions Nights," vol. ii. p. 576.

