PREFACE. vii

and the Continent; neither his time nor his engagements admitting of
any protracted absence from the United States; but as various circum-
stances—which it would not, he .trusts, be wrong to term providential
noocurred to open the way, and as he was solicited by a dear friend to
join him in a projected journey to the East, after some hesitation he
yielded consent, and gladly became a pilgrim, with his face set toward
the Holy City. Up to that date he had never given any special atten-
tion to Egyptian history and learning, and his knowledge of the Arabic
was conﬁned to the elements of the language. He felt consequently
with great keenness, his own deﬁciencies in many points, and he wel'l
knows that his enjoyment was much marred by want of previous prep-
aration, and his ﬁtness so much the less for undertaking to write any
- thing respecting the East. He hopes that this statement may account
for various lacunae and imperfections which will readily be discovered.

So much for self; it is far more pleasing to turn to something of
more consequence. The Author begs to retum his sincere thanks to
all the friends and brethren who have encouraged him to hope, that
these Letters may be acceptable and not nnuseful to the public; he
would also embrace the present opportunity to acknowledge his obli-
gations, in various ways, to his learned young friend and fellow-voy-
ager, Mr. George W. Pratt, and to give utterance to the hope that he
may continue to cultivate oriental studies, for which hi: has peculiar
aptness and capacity.

To J. B. Atkinson, Esq., who, though trained to the severer studies
of the law, is a devoted lover and cultivator of art, the Author would
particularly express his thanks. The reader will readily understand,
how materially Mr. Atkinson’s pencil has added charm and beauty
to the present volume; and he may gather from these specimens of
the artist’s talents, what a treat is iii store for the public, when that
gentleman is prevailed upon to submit his entire portfolio to the mini
rers and patrons of art.

A word or two in conclusion may be allowed the Author. He ven-
tures to offer these Letters to the public, without much apprehension as

