218 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

talent of his grandfather, and all the concentrated dislike and
ignorance of foreigners which belong to the most fanatical of
his countrymen. His career, thus far, has been short and
inglorious, and his measures—if they may be digniﬁed with
the name—have done him no credit, and involved him in dis-
putes with the representatives of nearly every foreign power
resident at his court. That he has his good points I should be
the last to deny, and some steps which he took with reference
to certain aged but disgraced public men under the former
pasha, have given evidence of capabilities for better things;
but alas, there is no dependence to be placed upon such
triﬂes, light as air, when the general tenor of his life, and
principles is corrupt, unjust and unworthy his elevated posi-
tion. How true are the prophetic words, and how often have
they recurred to my mind since I have been in Egypt,—“ it
shall be the basest of kingdoms;”* it shall sink low and be-
come mean and degraded, and shall no more have a prince of
its own to rule over it: “which,” as says a learned divine,
“ hath accordingly come to pass 5 for not long after the expi-
ration of the said forty years (Ezek. xxix.13),the Egyptians
were made a province of the Persian empire, they became
subject to the Macedonians, and after them to the Romans,
and after the Romans to the Saracens, and then to the Mam-
elukes, and are now a province of the Turkish empire.”l
Speaking of Abbas Pasha, recalls to my recollection the
events of Saturday last, the 17th instant, when the newly
appointed American consul-general, Mr. Macauley, was form-,
ally presented in his ofﬁcial character, to his highness, the
Pasha. It was a beautiful day, and the scene from the win-H
dows of the “Hotel d’Orient,” where Mr. M. is at present,
was unique and striking. About ten o’clock, there had ar-
rived a half-battalion of troops, sent as an escort, who paraded
in front of the hotel in very creditable style, and had a band

~‘ Ezek. xxix. 15; see xxx. 13.
,1- Prideaux’s “ OldgmdNew Testament Connected," vol. i. p. 110, Am‘. Ed. 1886. ‘

