242 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND.

cles as they had.” Here we were compelled to lay in water
for four days, as none could be had that was good short of
El Arish. The twenty-fourth of March brought us into the
desert in reality, wild, waste, and without water. A strong
wind was blom'ng, and, save some little birds, we saw nothing
Which had life: thistles, prickly shrubs, bushes, in clumps
usually, stunted grass, and such-like, were quite abundant,
and very serviceable to our camels, who cropped them with
great relish. The surface of the sandy ground was slightly
undulating, and there was, for the most part, a regular beaten
track or road. Beside the occasional encampments of the
Bedawin, a ﬂock or two of goats, the bleached bones of camels
who had died on the road, we had frequent experience in the
mirage, which is one of the most singular optical illusions
that I have ever witnessed. During the afternoon, we passed
an inlet or arm of the sea (perhaps the Lake Menzaleli), and
pools and salt marshes. The night was very cool, and having
ridden eleven hours, we felt very tired.

Our course for the succeeding days was nearly east, and
we traversed the desert of moving sands, which meets one
before arriving at El Arish. Our poor beasts sank into the
soil: sand very much, and were frequently in over their hoofs,
Now and then we passed a grove of palm trees, and saw
some birds, bugs, lizards, (See. The vast hills of yellowish
sand, which is drifted or blown together, looked very singu-
larly, and reminded us very much of the snow drifts in
America; and all day, we were passing through ravines,
formed by these hills and mounds of ﬁne sand, and over a very
uneven surface. At two P.M., we came upon a large, broad
plain, and in half an hour arrived at Katieh, the ancient Cas-
z'um, which, though put down on the maps, as if it were
actually in existence, is in entire ruins. It was formerly I
place of some importance, in a military point of View; but
when'the French evacuated .it, during Napoleon’s campaign
in Egypt, they blew up the fortiﬁcations, and destroyed the

