318 EGYPT AND THE HOLY LAND,

pointed out for Calvary and the Holy Sepulchre, notwith-
standing the great learning and acuteness displayed by Dr.
Robinson in endeavoring to show that they are not and can-
not be the true sites of those important events in our Lord’s
life and ministry. On a subsequent occasion, tob, I may be
able to lay before you the reasons which induce me to believe
in the correctness of the tradition respecting the place of our
Lord’s nativity at Bethlehem; and, perchance, of some other
traditionary sacred spots in the Holy Land.

The Church cf the Holy Sepulchre, as it is now termed,
is situate not far from the north-west corner of the city,
and, as might be expected, has gathered round itself must of
the convents and the principal portion of the Christian resi-
dences. Before. entering upon the question in relation to its
covering the very site of the sepulchre of our Lord, permit
me to give a brief description of the present church, bearing
in mind, that this is not the ediﬁce spoken of in such glowing
terms by Chateaubriand and earlier travellers, the former
church having been, in great measure, destroyed by ﬁre in
October, 1808; and that it was rebuilt in a style quite in-
ferior to that of its predecessorﬁ“ Passing down the street,
marked on the large map of the Ordnance Survey, “St. Ste-
phen’s Street,” we follow nearly the line supposed to be that
where the second wall stood in the time of our Saviour, and

'I “The ﬁrst ediﬁces that were erected to do honor to this place, were those of
Constantine, which were dedicated in the year 335. These were ruined in the
Persian invasion of Chosroes, in 614, and restored by Modestus ﬁfteen years
afterwards. Jerusalem was taken by the Mohammedans in 637; but the sa-
cred buildings in question were not injured by them at that time. -In l010, they
were, however utterly and purposely destroyed by order of the Khalit‘ Hakem.
Thirty years afterwards, permission was obtained by the Emperor Constantine
Monmnachus, to rebuild them, which was effected under the Patriarch Nice-
phorus about ﬁfty years before the entry ofthe Crusaders. They, during their
reign in Jerusalem, greatly increased the buildings; and, after their expulsion,
no important changes took place until the unhappy ﬁre, which, in 1808,90
greatly damaged the church. as to necessitate the entire reconstruction of it.
central portions.”—Pro£ Willis’s “ Architectural IIis-tory of the IIon Scpulchre,"
in Williams's “ Holy City," vol. ii. p. 135.

