INTERVIEW WITH THE PATRIARCH. 209

Mr. Lieder, I have been privileged to have an interview with
the patriarch of the Coptictchurch, who, though residing in
Cairo, is styled “Patriarch of Alexandria,” and occupies the
chair of St. Mark. He is chosen generally by lot, from the
monks of the convent of St. Anthony, in the Eastern desert,
near the Red Sea, and his jurisdiction extends over all Egypt
and Abyssinia. In Nubia, the people are nearly all Moham-
medans. The present patriarch is said to be well learned in
ecclesiastical matters, particularly those relating to the con-
troversies and disputes,-in which the East has always been
rife; but in respect to general information, I am sorry to say
that his holiness knows no more than the bishops and clergy
under him. The daily habits in which he is obliged to in-
dulge, the listlessness, languor, idleness, and, as we should
esteem it, inefﬁciency, of his life, are such as. to cause one
pain and deep regret, that the duties of a bishop are not bet-
ter understood, and more earnestly performed, in Egypt.
While I cannot bring myself to believe, that the informant
of Mr. Lane is correct, in stating that the patriarch is guilty
of manifest tyranny, corruption, and lust for money, and that
the inferior clergy are little better than robbers and wolves to
their ﬂocks, and both ignorant and vicious to a lamentable
degree ;* I must confess to you, that so far as appearances
go, I have seen very little to impress me favorably with either
clergy or people. The patriarch does not much else than sit
and smoke, hour after hour, sleeping a portion of the day, and
being obliged to be awake and watch all night. Except-mg
such duties as fall upon him, in connection with his metro-
politan jurisdiction, and some few of a civil character, none
of which are to be considered onerous, he passes his time in
the manner to which I have alluded, going out only one day
in the week, and never leaving his house save when he takes
part in the services in church. Sermons or expositions of.
Holy Scripture, neither he nor any one ever composes; and

* See Lane’s ” 1110ch Egyptians,“ v0). ii. p, 3517374,

