102 EGYPT AND THE HOLY I;AND..

unjust ;”* and I will confess to you, .what may ruin me in
the, eyes of the wholesale admirers” of antiquity, because it is
antiquity, that I took more pleasure in going through the
small village near the river, inhabited by Nubians, , and
catching a glimpse of their mode of life,,than_in all the re-
mains of early grandeur which Elephantine presents, to the
admiring gaze of the traveller. These poor people, dwelling
in their mud huts, which would hardly be thought ﬁt resi~
dences for the swine ‘in our country, appeared to me far from
unhappy. Their wants are few and easily‘supp‘lied, their,
climate, at this season, is delicious, their beautiful palms and
other trees afford them ,shade from the scorching 'sun, and
their huts, mean and contemptible as they are, according to,
our western notions, serve to accommodate themiand their.
numerous oﬂ'springyin‘a style quite equal t0"their desires:
With our? feelings and habits, and accustomedto the'luxmies‘
which fall to the lot of nearly all in Our highlylavored land;
they would, of course, be miserable in so-degraded, a condition,-
and obliged to live amid ﬁlth and penury. ‘But I am by no
means sure, that, looking at their position and enjoyments
by the standard of what they aretfitted for, they are so much
to be. pitied as at ﬁrst sight might appear. Think youthat
they would not be more unhappy and wretched than they
now maybe thought, if they were 'suddenly transported tote.
\vesternidwelling, obliged to wearour clothing, and attend to
the thousand customs of reﬁned society and elegant habits ?-
But what is to be mourned over is their deep degradation in’
an intellectual and religious point of view. Nine out of .ten
know literally nothing more than the animals which they em<
ploy in cultivating the ground; and not one in a thousand
ever attains to even the (simplest rudiments of education:
and then, when looked at as responsible creatures, as having
souls, and as beings who will have to give; account for the
deeds done in the ﬂesh,‘whether they be good or whether‘th‘ey

‘* Mﬂt- v. 45.

