INTENT OF THE PYRAMIDS. 65

which remains to be conﬁrmed or refuted by future discov-
eries. At all events, the opinion of those who conclude from
the Pyramids not being mentioned in the Bible, and by Homer,
that they did not exist before the Exodus, not at the time of
the poet, is totally inadmissible; and we may, with equal
readiness, reject the assertion of those who pretend that the
Iews aided in their construction. With regard to the opinion
that those kings were foreigners, arguments may be found
both to refute and support it. The style of architecture, the
sculptures in the tombs, and the scenes they represent, are
all Egyptian; and there are no subjects relating to another
race, or to customs differing from those of the country. On
the other hand, the aversion stated by Herodotus to have been
felt by the Egyptians for the memory of their founders, if
really true, would accord with the oppression of foreign tyrants.
Other strangers who ruled in Egypt employed native archi-
tects and sculptors; and it is remarkable that, with the excep-
tion of the Sphinx, Campbell’s tomb, and a few others, the
Pyramids and the monuments about them, are conﬁned to
nearly the same period. But, however strong the last may
appear in favor of a foreign dynasty, it must be remembered
that all the tombs of Beni Hassan were, in like manner,
made within the short period of two or three reigns; and
many other cemeteries seem to have been used for a limited
time, both at Thebes and other places.”*

2. It is a question of considerable interest as to What were
the intended uses of the Pyramids; and'here too there is
nearly as much disagreement as in respect to the date and
founders of these massive monuments. It has been conjec-
tured by a writer of eminence, as quoted by Dr. Russell, that
inasmuch as the entrance to the Pyramids is on the north
side, near the centre, and the angle of inclination is in every
case about 27°, there must have been intended by this some

special connection with the science of astronomy, to which

“ “ Hand Baokfar Egypt,” p. 197. e

