to (rumbshen. IgALABsuEH. 31. Route. 355

period, in which Coptic gravestones also occur. 0n the hill above
is a castellated building. — 0n the opposite (E.) bank lay the Roman
fort of Contra Taphz's, which has left no remains of importance.

Beyond Tafeh the dark shining rocks advance close to the river—
bank, forming a kind of rocky gateway, known as the Bdb el-
Kaldbsheh. At a few isolated points a narrow strip of cultivated
land With palms borders the river; and on the E. bank lies a small
village. The navigation of this reach is somewhat intricate, owing
to the frequent bends of the river and the numerous islands. At
the point where the valley expands again lies a small island, with
some ruined buildings.

31 M. Kaldbsheh forms a large commune on both banks of the
Nile, comprizing 17 hamlets. — From Khartﬁm, a small village on
the W. bank, a desert-route leads round the Bab el—Kalabsheh to
Tafeh (p. 354). On this route, about 1/2 M. from the village, is
a rock-inscription, dating from the 9th year of King Taharka. About
1 M. farther on, on a small plateau, is the ruined church of Sittch
Kasmar, built of rough stones.

Hard by the river, as we proceed to the 8., lie the ruins of the
ancient town of Talmis. Closely hemmed in by modern houses
appears the large —

Tempel of Kalabsheh, built in the reign of Augustus on the
site of an earlier sanctuary, founded by Amenophis 11. and re-
founded by one of the Ptolemies. It was never completely adorned
with reliefs and inscriptions; and those that are ﬁnished are very
crude, while the subjects of the representations are frequently
misunderstood. The temple was probably dedicated in the ﬁrst place
to the god Mandulis (p. 339), to Whom are addressed most of the
dedicatory inscriptions on the pylons, the walls of the vestibule,
and elsewhere. It was converted into a church on the introduction
of Christianity. The building is in comparatively good preserva—
tion, though all its chambers are strewn with fragments of the roof,
columns, and sculptures.

The approach to the temple (comp. the Plan, p. 356) is formed
by a Terrace, about 100 ft. long and 25 ft. broad, constructed of
hewn stones and still in excellent preservation. 0n the side next
the river is a rectangular projection, below which passes aroad; on
its landward side a ﬂight of low steps ascends to a long and narrow
platform immediately in front of the pylon.

The PYL0N(P1.A), the principal entrance to the temple-precincts,
stands at a slight angle with the main axis of the temple and terrace.
Only the top of it has been destroyed, but it has no reliefs whatever,
with the exception of two representations of gods in the doorway.
Each tower of the pylon has a groove for a ﬂag-staﬂ (comp. p. 316).

The COURT (P1. B), between the pylon and the vestibule, was
surrounded on three sides by colonnades, of which only a srngle

23 *

