FAYI‘JM. 16‘. Route. 175

RAILWAY from Cairo to Medinet el-Fayﬁm, 75 M., in about 4 hrs. The
trains (two daily in each direction) are often late. — From Medinet el-
Fayﬁm the line goes on to Abuksa (Abouxah), but for a visit to the Birket
Karﬁn horses must be brought from Medineh (comp. p. 181).

Situation and History of the Fayilm. In the great plateau of the
Libyan Desert, which rises 300-400 ft. above the sea-level, is situated the
grovince of the FAYﬁM (from the ancient Egyptian ‘Phiom‘, Le. lake), the

rst of the oases, which is usually considered to belong to the valley of
the Nile, and is justly celebrated for its extraordinary fertility. This
tract is in the form of an oval basin and is enclosed by the Libyan
hills, which are here of moderate height, and lies about three-ﬁfths of a
degree to the S. of Cairo. It enjoys a remarkably ﬁne climate. This ‘land
of roses‘ is still one of the most beautiful parts of Egypt. The oranges
and mandarins, peaches, olives, ﬁgs, cactus fruit, pomegranates, and grapes
grown here are much esteemed, and the ﬁelds, which are watered by means
of wheels of peculiar construction, yield rice, sugar, cotton, ﬂax, and hemp,
besides the usual cereals. The beginning of November is probably the
season at which the traveller will obtain the most distinct idea of the
fertile character of the district. Even at the period of the Ptolemies and
the Romans the products of the Fayﬁm were much extolled. ‘The Arsinoite
Nome’, says Strabo, “is the most remarkable of all, both on account of
its scenery and its fertility and cultivation. For it alone is planted with
large and richly productive olive—trees, and the oil is good when the olives
are carefully gathered; those who are neglectful may indeed obtain oil in
abundance, but it has a bad smell. In the rest of Egypt the olive-tree
is never seen, except in the gardens of Alexandria, where under favour-
able circumstances it yields olives, but] no oil. Vines, corn, podded
plants, and many other products also thrive in this district in no small
abundance‘. The Fayﬁm is entirely indebted for its fertility to the Bull?“
Yﬂsuf (‘Canal of Joseph‘), a channel 207 M. in length, which diverges from
the Nile to the N. of Assiﬁt, and ﬂows through a narrow opening in the
Libyan chain into the Fayﬁm, where it divides into numerous ramifications,
abundantly watering the whole district. At the point Where the Bahi-
Yﬁsuf enters the Fayﬁm, the district forms a plateau of moderate height,
descending towards the W. in three gradations towards the Birket Karﬁn
(p. 181). Method of irrigation, see p. lv.

In antiquity the Fayﬁm was known as Te-s/Ie or ‘lake-land‘ (Gr. Limne,
the lake), from the great inland lake frequently mentioned and described by
Greek travellers and geographers under the name of Lake Mom-is (from
Egypt. me(r)-wél', muir, great canal), of which the last trace must be re-
cognized in the present Birket Karim. At the most remote period the lake
had a circumference of about 140 M. (Herodotus says 3600 stadia, i.e. 335 M.),
with an area of about 770 sq. M., and lay, according to recent calculations,
70 ft. above the level of the Mediterranean; whereas the present lake is
140 ft. below sea-level. The ancient Lake Moeris thus occupied almost the
entire basin of the Fayﬁm, leaving uncovered only a narrow strip of fertile
land on the 8., known as the ‘Lake—land‘, on which stood the capital
Shetet (Crocodilopolis, p. 176), protected by embankments against inundation.
Of the actual boundaries of the lake we can only say that on the N. it
stretched as far as the eminence with the desert temple discovered by
Schweinfurth, while on the S. the waters probably reached the neigh-
bourhood of Edwa, Biliamu, and Fidmin. As early as the Greek period,
chieﬂy in the reign of Ptolemy Philadelphus, the lake-area was reduced
by means of embankments, until its total size approximated to that of the
modern Birket Karﬁn. Attempts were made to reclaim land for agricultural
purposes by draining the marshes; and the success that has attended
these efforts is attested by the fertile. ﬁelds and prosperous villages that
have occupied for two centuries the erstwhile site ofLake Maris. Strabo
describes the lake in the following terms: ‘OWing to its size and depth
Lake Moeris is capable of receiving the superabundance of water during
the inundation without overﬂowing the habitations and crops:‘ but later,
when the water suhsides, and after the lake has given up its excess

