152 Route 9. SAKEARA.

in this wall leads to the Serdab (A 7), in which a painted statue of Mere-
ruka was found. S. Wall. To the left, cattle, goats, etc., are being driven
before the deceased, while scribes note down the numbers; to the right,
peasant-women, representing villages the names of which are inscribed,
bringing gifts. N. Wall. To the left, the slaughtering of cattle, to the
right, Mereruka inspecting his ﬁshermen.

Rooms MARKED B. — B1. N. a 8. Walls. The wife of Mereruka, a
princess, receiving various gifts from her attendants. W. Wall. Mereruka‘s
wife, son, and daughter; four servants bearing a litter adorned with lions;
to the left, ﬁshing scene; above, capture of wild bulls. —B2. Staircase. —
B 3. N. Wall. Dancers before Mereruka’s wife. On the other walls are
servants bringing food for the deceased, and cattle. — B 4. Serde‘tb. —
B 5. W. Wall. In the centre is an elaborate door—stele, in front of which
is a square block once supporting a sacriﬁcial tablet; to the right and
left is the deceased at table, with servants bringing food, ﬂowers, etc.
N. Wall. Mereruka‘s wife and son in a litter adorned with a lion, near-
which are three dogs and a pet ape. On the other walls, Attendants
bringing gifts to the deceased; cattle being slaughtered. -—— B 6. Empty.

To the right (E) of Mereruka’s Tomb lies the Mastaba. of
Ke-gem-ni, a vizier and judge, also of the 6th Dyn. and excavated in
1893. (The name is erroneously given on the tablet over the entrance

as Ka-bi—n.) The representations in this tomb are of little interest.

Room I. On the left wall. Ke—gem-ni inspects his cattle and poultry;
hyaenas are being fed; feeding poultry. On the right wall the deceased
inspects the ﬁsheries; the captured ﬁsh are recorded and carried away.
Above the door to the next room is the deceased in his litter. — Room 11.
Ke—gem-ni receiving gifts from his attendants. To the left is a chamber
in which ﬁgures of the deceased are chiselled out at two places. —
Room 111. On the side-walls, Ke-gem-ni, seated in a chair, receives
sacriﬁcial gifts. On the end-wall is the stele. in front of which was the
altar, reached by a ﬂight of steps. - Room IV. Two representations of
Ke-gem-ni, standing, and receiving gifts from his attendants; tables with
vessels; large ointment—jars dragged on sledges.

A few paces to the E. of the tomb of Ke-gem—ni is a Street of
Tombs, exhumed by Loret in 1899. Several interesting structures
of the 6th Dyn. were discovered here.

The ﬁrst is the somewhat ruinous tomb of Ra-nefer-seshem, surnamed
Sheshz', avizier and judge, the chief remains of which are a hall with six
square pillars, each bearing the ﬁgure of the deceased, and an elegant stele.

The ﬁrst tomb on‘the left in the Street of Tombs proper is that of
*Enkh-me—Hor, surnamed Sesz‘. Through the door we enter a chamber
with reliefs of ﬂuvial life (water—animals, ﬁsh, crocodile, hippopotamus),
beyond which is a second room, with a representation of the deceased
inspecting his ﬁsheries. In one of the doorways are interesting reliefs of
surgical operations; on the right, circumcision, on the left, an operation
on a man‘s toe. In the adjoining room are ﬁgures of dancers. — The
next tomb belongs to Uze-he-Tetz‘ 0r Ptah—nefer-seshem, surnamed Sheshi,
‘the ﬁrst next to the king”. In a chamber with ﬁne painted reliefs is the
door-shaped stele, with two ﬁgures of the deceased emerging; above the
door is a recess with a bust of the deceased. In another room is shown
a poultry-yard. — The last tomb (on the left), that of Ke—eper, ‘the ﬁrst
next to the king‘, is built of crude bricks. the door alone being of lime-
stone. — On the rubbish above the ancient graves at the end of the street
stands a Tomb Of the New Empire, with the stumps of four papyrus-columns.

The street, bending to the right (E.), leads to the ruined Pyramid of
Queen Yepwel. The stepped core, on which the limestone blocks of the outer
covering are laid, is still clearly discernible. Adjoining the E. base of the
pyramid stands the temple, in the central chamber of which is the shattered
stele, with the granite altar still lying in front of it. On the débris of
the pyramid stands a tomb of the New Empire, with a ﬁne tombstone.

