48 Route 4. CAIRO. . 2. The Muski.

vestibule and then the sanctuary, a magniﬁcent apartment with
lofty stilted arches. The decoration is simple. The lower part
of the wall with the prayer-niche is, however, tastefully adorned
with gilded panels and coloured marbles, while the middle part
displays a rich mosaic of coloured marbles, terminating below in
charming dwarf arcades with colonnettes of blue glass. The upper
part of the wall bears inscriptions in bold black letters, interspersed
with gilded arabesques and rosettes in marble medallions. The
coloured wooden ceiling and'the inlaid ornamentation of the pulpit
and doors also deserve notice. 0n the left is the mausoleum of
the sultan, and on the right that of his family. The Liw'an is
separated by a modern iron railing from the court, which is planted
with trees.

Immediately adjoining the mosque is the town-gate Bib ez-Zu-
wéleh (Pl. E, 4), at the end of the street. This is built of solid
blocks of stone and resembles the two other gates of the Fatimite
period, the Bab el-Futﬁh and the Bab-en-Nasr (p. 62). It was
erected at the end of the 11th cent. by Greek builders from Edessa.
The S. side consists of two huge towers; by that to the W. are a
number of stone and wooden balls, probably dating from the Mame-
luke period. Tuman Bey, the last of the Circassian sultans of Egypt,
was hanged outside this gate by Sultan Selim I., on 15th April,
1517 (p. 33). This gate is also called Bdb el-Mz’twelli, from the
old tradition that the most highly revered saint Kutb el-Mitwelli
has his abode behind the western gate, where he sometimes makes
his presence known by a gleam of light. From the inner (E) gate
hang bunches of hair, teeth, ﬂowers, shreds of clothing, and other
votive offerings, placed here by sick persons who hope thereby to be
cured of their diseases. Opposite the outside of the gate is the sebil
of Sultan Farag, by the large grated window of which executions by
strangulation took place down to the middle of the 19th century.

From the Zuwéleh Gate the DERB EL-AnMAR (Pl. E, 4) leads
towards the E. About ‘200 yds. from the gate is the recently restored
*Mosque of the Emir Kismﬁs el-Ishalyi, a small but handsome
building, erected in 1481 in the style of Kai't Bey. The mausoleum,
which is large in proportion to the mosque, long remained empty,
as Emir Kismas el-Ishaki, master of the horse to Kim Bey, died
and was buried in Syria. In 1851, however, the pious Shékh Abu
Hariba was interred here. —— In the same street, farther on named
SHAm‘A Er-TABBANEH (Pl. E, 4, 5), lies the restored Gami‘a. Altun
Bogha. el-Merdani, built by Emir el-Merdani, cup—bearer of Sultan
Mohammed en-Nasir, and ﬁnished in 1332. The new concrete dome
in front of the prayer—niche is borne by superb ancient Egyptian
granite columns. The tasteful ornamentation of the ceiling and the
elaborate mosaic of the prayer-niche also demand attention.

