128 Route 8. TOMB OF NUMBERS. Environs

We may complete our circuit of the plateau of the Pyramids by
visiting the Sphinx (p. 123) and the Granite Temple, (p. 124), and
then return to the Great Pyramid and the three small Pyramids
lying in front of it to the E. — At the foot of the E. side of the
southernmost of these small pyramids lies a small Sanctuary of Isis
(P1, 0), ‘Mistress of the Pyramids’, which was rebuilt by Psusennes
(21st Dyn.). Only a few stumps of columns now remain.

We may now proceed to the E. to the verge of the desert plateau,
in the direction of the Arab village, in order the inspect the Tombs
ofthe Ancient Empire, hollowed out in the rocky slope. Several of
these are now used as dwellings or stables. The best known is the
Tomb of Numbers (Pl. n), which belonged to a certain Khafra—
onlch, a courtier of Khafré. On the left entrance-wall appear the
deceased and. his brother, accompanied by a dog, inspecting the
cattle that are driven before them by peasants. The peasants are
arranged in several rows, headed by a standard-bearer. Writers
are engaged in recording the number of cattle of each kind, the
numbers being placed above the herds (whence the name of the
tomb). Thus we are informed that Khafra—onkh had 853 bulls, 220
cows and calves, 2235 goats, 760 asses, and 974 rams. 0n the left
(8.) wall are the deceased and his wife at table. 0n the rear (W.)
rwall are ﬁve door-shaped steles with a full-face portrait in high
relief of the deceased, to the left. The mural reliefs, which are in
poor preservation, are in the clumsy and undeveloped style of the
4th Dynasty. -—— 0n the S. horizon rise the pyramids of Abusir

(p. 129) and. the step-pyramid of Sakkara (p. 134).

Beside the village of Kerddseh, about 5 M. to the N. of the Pyramids
of Gizeh, rise the Pyramids of Abu Roash, which were erected towards
the end of the 4th Dynasty. They are most conveniently reached on camels
hired from the Beduins (enquire at the Mena House Hotel). The route
leads through the desert, skirting the edge of the cultivated land. The
largest pyramid built by Tetf—Re (p. 127) and called El-Kd‘a by the natives,
is situated upon a steep rock, almost inaccessible from the plain, but
reached by an approach, still nearly 1 M. long, from the NE. Nothing
is left of the pyramid but its rocky core, and the same is true ofa smaller
stone—pyramid to the S.W. The plateau commands a ﬁne view of the Nile
valley and of the gorges of the Libyan desert. —— There is a third pyramid,
built of brick, in the plain to the N. of the village of Abu Roash. The
brick superstructure, which was 55 ft. in height when Lepsius saw it
in 1842, has since been entirely demolished, and nothing now remains
but the rock-core with the tomb-chamber.

The EXCURSION To THE PYRAMIDS or Anusin, to the S. of Gizeh,
is interesting. We take the electric tramway to the Mena House Hotel
(p. 112), and ride thence in 11/2-2 hrs. on a donkey (there and back
10 pias.) or camel. Or a donkey may be taken direct from Cairo in
2V2 hrs., via the villages of Gizeh and Shobrement; or the excursion
may be combined with that to Sakkara (p. 130).

Quitting the Mena House Hotel we ride along the verge of the
desert, leaving the Pyramids of Gizeh on the right. To the left is
the cultivated country with several villages, the largest of which is

