ASSUAN. 99. Route. 327

As we approach Assu'an (E. bank), the scene presented to us is
one of great and peculiar beauty. 0n the hill to the right is the
Kubbet el-hawa (p. 334); straight in front of us lies the N. extrem—
ity of the island of Elephantine (p. 330), with the Savoy Hotel.
Sandstone now gives place to masses of granite on the banks and
in the channel of the stream.

68 M. Assuc‘m.

29. Assuan and its Environs.

The Tourist Steamers usually remain here 2 days. — Railway, see
p. 3)“, the station lies to the S. of the town.

Hotels. "‘SAVOY HOTEL, belonging to the Anglo-American Nile-Steamer
(k Hotel Co., on the island of Elephantine, whither guests are conveyed
by special boat; *CATARACT HOTEL, belonging to Messrs. Cook (manager,
Herr Steiger; English housekeeper)1 situated opposite Elephantine, near
the lowest cataract, with lawn-tennis courts, *AssUAN HOTEL (belonging
to Mr. Pagnon, proprietor of the Luxor Hotel), on the quay. All these
are open in winter only (comp. p. xxviii); pens. in Jan. and Feb. 165.,
cheaper in Dec. and March by arrrangement.

Cafes. Khedivial Dining Room; Assmin Bar; ('afe‘ Khédivial, on the
quay (with unpretending bedr00ms).

Post 8: Telegraph Ofﬁce on the river—bank, to the N. of the steamboat
quay. — Cook’s Ofﬁce in the vicinity.

Churches. English Protestant Church, beside the Cataract Hotel; Roman
Catholic Church, to the N. of the town.

British Vice-Consul, Major W. H. Hunter.—Physician. Dr. Leigh Canney.

Nubian Articles are everywhere offered for sale: ostrich feathers and
fans, silver rings and armlets, ivory hoops, Weapons of the dervishes
(mostly, however, manufactured in Assuan), amulets, horns, basket-work,
and aprons of leather fringe (the costume of the women of the Sudan,
which they oddly call ‘Madama Nubia‘). Grey and black ostrich feathers
are comparatively cheap (8 piastres = ‘2 fr. each), larger and perfect white
feathers cost 10-20 fr. apiece and upward. Travellers, however, will ﬁnd
it more c0nvenient to buy these in Cairo. — The Bazaar is distinguished
for its excellent local pottery of great beauty of form.

Distribution of Time. 1st Day. Elephantine (p. 331) and the Rock Tombs
on the W. bank (p. 332), in the afternoon, Assmin and its Bazaars, (the
Bishdrtn Camp (p. 3'29), and possibly also the Granite Quarries (p. 350).
Travellers by the tourist-steamers, which arrive in the afternoon, vis1t
Elephantine on the same day. -— 2nd Day. Island of Philae; on the way
back a visit may be paid to the works of the new Nile Dam (p. 335) or
to the Granite Quarries (p. 330). if .unvisited. —— 3rd_Day. Excursxon t0
the Convent of St. Simeon (p. 331', 1/2 day). or second visit to Philae (p. 336).

Assuan, Greek Syene. Coptic Suan, with about 13,000 inhab.,
lies on the E. bank, partly on the plain and partly on a hill, in N.
lat. 24° 5’30". The fertile strip here is narrow, but supports
numerous date-palms, the fruit of which enjoys a high reputation.
Assuan is the capital of El-I—Iedz‘td, the southernmost province of
Upper Egypt, embracing the old province of Esneh and the district
between the ﬁrst two cataracts. It is the seat of the provincial a11—
thorities and of a garrison. The once considerable trade in the pro-
ducts of the Sudan and Abyssinia has greatly fallen off since the
Mahdist revolt. The Nile here divides into several arms, separated
by granite rocks and islands, the largest of which is Elephantine

