of the Kings. THEBES (W. BANK). 24. Route. 277

imitation of a papyrus), bear citations and scenes from the ‘Book of
that which is in the Underworld’. In the crypt stands the sandstone
sarcophagus of the king, containing a mummy—shaped cofﬁn with
the body of Amenophis 11., wrapped in its shroud and still adorned
with garlands. On each side of the crypt are two small chambers.
In the ﬁrst to the right lie three mummies. The second to the right,
also found walled up when the tomb was opened, contained nine
royal mummies, probably placed here for concealment by grave-
robbers. Among them were the mummies of Thutmosis IV., Amen-
ophis III. (18th Dyn.), Si-Ptah, and Sethos 11. (19th Dyn.), all now
in Gizeh Museum.

No. 36. Tomb of Mai-her-pri, a private citizen, opened by Loret
in 1898 (comp. p. 104).

No. 37, a small tomb without inscriptions, probably also belonged
to a private person.

No. 38. Tomb of Thutmosis I., the earliest royal tomb in the
Valley of the Kings, discovered by Loret in 1899, lies in the abrupt
side of the valley, between Tombs 14 and 15. It is accessible only
by Special permission from the Inspector General at Medinet-Habu.

A steep ﬂight of steps descends to a square room, whence another
ﬂight leads to the roughly hewn TOMB CHAMBER, the ceiling of which was
supported by a column (now broken). The walls were covered with
painted stucco, but this has disappeared from the fact that the grave was
sometimes under water. The handsome red sandstone sarcophagns is
adorned with representations of Isis (foot), Nephthys (head), the gods of
the dead (sides), and Newt, the goddess of Heaven (inside). —- To the
left is another small room.

No. 39, discovered by Arabs, is not easy to reach.

No. 40 is uninteresting.

No. 41, an open shaft, has not yet been examined.

The W. valley of the Bibdn el—Mulﬁk (comp. p. 264), usually
named by the Arabs after Tomb 23 (see below), is seldom visited.
The keys of the tombs are kept by the Inspector General at Medinet
Habu (p. 297).

The ﬁrst tomb here (No. 22) is that of Amenophis 111., found by
the French Expedition. We enter from the W. ; the tomb soon bends
towards the N., but ﬁnally resumes its original direction.

The three ﬁrst passages penetrated the rock at an angle. The way to
the fourth crosses a deep shaft, which is not easily crossed without a.
ladder. It contains several representations of the reception of the king
by the gods. Some of the pictures have been only sketched in, and the
ﬁeld divided into squares. The sarcophagus has been broken. The Ash-anom-
ical Ceiling Paintings in the chamber with the sarcophagus are noteworthy.
The chambers beyond this room have no inscriptions.

The second tomb (No. 23), called by the Arabs Turbetel—Kurad

(Tomb of the Apes), is in a very retired spot. It belongs to King Eyé.

A staircase and a corridor descend to an apartment containing themagnif-
icent sarcophagus, 0n the walls are representations of the king in presence
0f various deities. On the end-wall to the right are twelve sacred apes.

Tombs No. 24 and No. 25 are inaccessible.

