DOOTRIN’ES 0F EL-ISLAM. 1m

(2) The Kddiq-tyeh (sing. laddz‘ri), an order fonnded by the celebrated
Seiyid ‘Abd el-Kadir el-Gilani, have white banners and white turbans.
Most of them spend their time in ﬁshing, and in their processions they
carry nets of different colours, ﬁshing-rods, and other insignia of their
chief pursuit.

(3). The Senusz‘yeh, founded by the Algerian Mohammad ben-‘Ali es-Senasi
(d. 1‘59), have spread over Arabia and the entire N. of Africa, especially
in the Egyptian oases of the Libyan desert. The residence of the chief
of the Order was recently removed from the oasis of Gaghabub to the
oasis of Kufr. The teaching of Senﬁsi was directed towards a return to
the original strictness of Islam and to its emancipation from the dominion
of Eur0peans and other heretics. The members of the order abstain from
music, singing, dancing, tobacco, and coffee.

(4). The Sammo‘miyeh, established at the end of the 18th cent. by She‘lch
Sammdn, practise extreme asceticism, seeking seclusion for the purpose
in cells, caves, deserts, and even in the sea. Mohammed Ahmed, the mahdi
of Khartﬁm (p. oii). who appeared at El-Obeid in 1880 as the ‘Summoned
of God', joined this order.

(5) The Allmedz‘yeh (sing. ahmedi), the order of Seiyid Ahmed el-
Bedawi, are recognised by their red banners and red turbans. This order
is very numerous and is much respected. It is divided into many sects,
bnt of these the two most important only need be mentioned. One of these
is the Shinndwiyeh, who play an important part in the ceremonies at the
tomb of Seiyid Ahmed at Tanta (p. 22). The other sect is that of the
Uldd Nab, Who are generally young men, wearing high pointed caps with
a plume of strips of coloured cloth, and a number of small balls strung
across their breasts, and carrying wooden swords and a kind of whip
made of a thick plait of rope.

There are also many other orders which it is unnecessary to enumerate.
The ceremony of the admission of members to all these orders is a very
simple matter. The candidate (el-mm'z‘d) performs the customary ablutions,
sits down on the ground beside the superior (elmm-shid, or spiritual,
leader), gives him his hand, and repeats after him a set form of words,
in which he expresses penitence for his sins and his determination to
reform, and calls Allah to witness that he will never quit the order. The
ceremony terminates with three recitals of the confession of faith by the
murid, the joint repetition of the fatha (p. lxviii), and a kissing of hands.

The religious exercises of all the dervishes consist chieﬂy in the
performance of Zikrs (1'. e. pious devotions, or invocations of Allah; see
below). Almost all the dervishes in Egypt are small tradesmen, artizans,
or peasants. Most of them are married men, and they take part in the
ceremonies peculiar to their order at stated seasons only. Some of
them, however, make it their business to attend festivals and funerals
for the purpose of exhibiting their zikrs. These last are called fulcara
(sing. falcir), i. e. ‘poor men‘. Others again support themselves by drawing
water (hemalz‘; see p. 37). Those who lead a vagrant life and subsist on
alms are comparatively few in number. The dervishes of this class
usually wear a kind of gown (dilly) composed of shreds of rags of various
colours sewn together, or a shaggy coat of skins, and carry a stick
with strips of cloth of various colours attached to the upper end. A
considerable number of them are insane, in which case they are highly
revered by the people, and are regarded as specially favoured by God,
who has taken their spirits to heaven, while he has left their earthly
tabernacle behind.

The Zilcrs of the Dancing and the Howling Dervishes are the best
known.

The howling or shouting dervishes perform their zikr at Cairo on
Frid. (1.30-2.30 p.m.] in the little mosque beside the Kasr el-‘Ain (p. 41).
The dervishes assume a kneeling or crouching posture, with their heads
and chests bent downwards. In this attitude they sometimes remain for
hours, incessantly shouting the Muslim confession of faith —— ‘la ilaha‘,
etc., until they at length attain the ecstatic condition, and finish by
repeating the word ha, Le. ‘he‘ (God) alone. On the occasion of great

