u/‘ Aswan. PHILZE. 29. Route. 335

either iDSpect the large new Nile Dam, with the permission of onc of the

englneel‘s-‘in-chief at Shellﬁl, or visit the ancient Granite Quarries (p. 330).
-— Provxsmns and tickets of admission should not be forgotten.

_ The return by boat down the smaller cataract has now been rendered
imposs1ble by the works for the new dam (see below)

The RAILWAY, starting at the Luxor Station, to the S. of Assuan,
describes a wide curve round the N. and S. granite quarries (p. 330)
and ends at the station of Shelltil (p. 336).

The DESERT ROUTE, which crosses the railway-line and leads
past the Arabian and European cemeteries (the latter containing
the graves of many British soldiers), is the old road described by
Strabo, who assigns it a length of 50 stadia. 0n the heights to the
right are small British forts and block—houses. Beside the road lie
large blocks of granite, with ancient inscriptions carved by Egyptian
ofﬁcials employed in the quarrics. M. de Morgan has numbered
these inscriptions with white numbers. Farther on, beyond the
point Where the route via the river-bank diverges [see below), we
notice considerable fragments of an ancient Brick Wall, incorporat-
ing a few granite blocks, which was probably erected as early as
the Middle Empire to protect the road against the predatory attacks
of the E. desert—tribes. The wall is 6 ft. thick and, at places, 12 ft.
high. It ﬁrst appears to the W. of the road, then crosses it, and
remains on the E. sidc as far as Shellél (p. 336).

The RIVERSIDE ROUTE diverges to the right from the Desert Route
about 1/2 M. beyond the European cemetery, approaches the river,
and reaches the village of Maltatla, opposite the island of Sehél.

The island of Sehél, lying below the cataract and reached from Assuan
by boat, was dedicated to Anukis, and contains over 200 rock-inscrip—
tions, besides the ruins of two temples. One of the temples (to the S.)
dates from the 18th Dyn., the other, near the village of Sehél on the W.
side of the island, from the Ptolemaic period (Philopator). High up on
the SE, rocks of the island is an important inscription of the Ptolemaic
period, recording that in the reign of the primaeval King Zoser (p. 134) thc
Nile failed to rise during a period of seven years and thata famine arose
in the land in consequence, until at the prayer of the king the cataract-
god Khnum put an cud to it by a fresh inundation.

Beyond Sehél we ride inland across loose rocks, and pass through
the long Nubian village of Koror; then, after traversing the desert
for a short distance, we return to the river. The view of the stream
with its numerous dark-coloured granite rocks, covered With a
smooth glaze, likc enamel, is very ﬁne, although the foaming rapids
of the Great Cataract are now things of the past. To the right are
the works of the new Barrage (Arabic, el- Khazan), a gigantic dam
which is expected to be ﬁnished in 1903. The object of this huge
undertaking is to dam up the waters of the Nile to a depth of 65 ft.
during the inundation, in order to utilize it gradually for the regular
irrigation of the entire country throughout the rest of the year. The
dam, which is being constructed of solid granite masonry, is “/4 M.
in length and, at the deepest points, it is 100 ft. in height and 88 ft.
thick at the bottom. The outﬂow of the water will be regulated by

