ARABIC VOCABULARY.

Nationalities. France, Fer-
ansa, French, fera'nsdwz'; Ger-
many, Alemdnia, German, ale-
mdm‘; Austria, Bildd Nemsa,
Austrian, nemsdwi; Greece,
Ram or Bilr’id errﬁm, Greek,
Tami,- Italy, Bildd Ittilia, Ita-
lian, italidni; Russia, Bildd
el—Moslcof, Russian, moslczlﬁ;
Syria, Eshshdm, Syrian, shdmi;
Turkey, Bildd et-Turk, Turk,
turki. See also America, Eng-
land, Egypt, Arab, etc. — The
names for the peoples are used
adjectively also,
= both a German and Ger-
man.

e.g. alemc‘mz‘

 

clxxxlii

Narrow, daiyilc.

Near, lcuraiyib.

Necessary, ldzim. It is necessary
that I seize him, lc‘tzim amsikuh
(b). Unnecessary, mush lo‘tzim.

Neighbour, gar, pl. girrin.

Never, abadam, with the negative
of verbs, e.g. I never smoke,
and ma ashrabsh eddukhkhc’ln
abadan (lit. I never drink
tobacco).

New, gedid.

Night, lél. By night, bellé‘l; mid-
night, muss ellél.

Nile, bulw- email or simply elbahr.

No, lzi. No, I will not, ld, md 'auz
(data, if a woman speaks).

 

Month, shehr; 2 months, shehren; 3 months, telattushhur. —

Instead of the Arabic names of the months used in Syria, the
Egyptians employ the Coptic [ancient Egyptian) names of the solar
months, which, however, are always about nine days behind the
European months. Each Coptic month has thirty days, and in
order to complete the year ﬁve or six intercalary days are added at
the end [in the beginning of September). The European names,
however, are gradually coming into general use.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

English January 1February March ll April May June
. . chmln . . _ .4
Syrian et-tdm‘ shobat l adm msan eyd? bazardn
European yenaz‘rl febmiz'r I ma; es I abril mdya yam'a
Coptic { tuba > amshﬁ I bar amhdt ’ balmadeh bashens baana
English ' July ' August [September October November December
. ' . , . tishrin ' tishrz‘n kdnﬂn
Syrlan f tamaz ab | elm ’ el—auwal I et—tdm‘ ’ el-auwal
yﬂlt’a I _ ' _ 1. . v‘ _
European (MHz/a) aghosws sebtembe; I oktébe; ,nowembe; 'dezembm
‘ Coptic ( ebz‘b [ misra l m I bdba l hdtm- I kidhk
l
The intercalary days (which come after Misra) are called ayydm en-nesi.

 

 

 

The MUSLIM months form a lunar year only (comp. p. lxxv).
Their names are: Mohawem, Safar, Rabir el-Auwal, Rabi‘ et- Tani,
Gemad el—Auwal, Gemdd et- Tani, Regeb, Sha‘bdn, Ramado‘m, Shau-
wdl, Dhil-Ki‘deh, Dhil-Hz'ggeh [month of the pilgrimage).

