KHARTﬁM. 37. Route. 385

captured by Wolseley on Jan. 21st, 1885, after the battle of Abu

'Klea. This was the ﬁnal act in the campaign.

The Fungi tribes distinguished themselves by their warlike ability in
the. 18th.and beginning of the 19th century. 'Iheir emirs wore shirts of
chain-mail and helmets with nose-pieces; specimens of both were captured
as late as 18.97. lsma'il, snn of Mohammed rAli, was treacherously captured
and burned at Sbendl in 1822, though his army was rescued by the hasty
advance of the Defterdar from Kordot‘an.

At (500 M.) dei Ben Naga are the remains of two late-Ethiopian
temples.

In .the fertile Wtidi Auate‘b, about 22 M. to the SE. of Ben Naga. are
the ruins of New, including a Roman and three late-Ethiopian tempaeS.
About 15 M. to the N.E., at Mesmmit es-Sofm, are other late-Ethiopian
ruined temples.

The devastation on the river-banks and the ruins of numerous
villages recall the raid of the dervishes in 1895 against the Ethiopic—
Semitic Jaalin, whom, in the true spirit of Arab vendetta, they
endeavoured to exterminate root and branch in revenge for alleged
treachery. Members of the J aalin tribe are now frequently met in
Khartﬁm as servants, scribes, or watchmen.

524 M. Gebel Gerri is situated in a deﬁle beside the Sixth
Cataract. On each side rise volcanic summits and gneissic hills.
Here for the ﬁrst time we see the typical pointed roof of the Central
African straw-huts, with their airy ‘recubas’ or porches. —- 547 M.
dei Ramleh.

Near the village of Kerrem‘ and the Gebel Surgam, on the left bank,
Sir Herbert Kitchener defeated, on Sept. 2nd, 1898, a dervish army of
35,000 men, whose fanatical onslaughts were shattered by the steady ﬁre
of the Anglo-Egyptian troops. The dervishes are estimated to have lost
10,000 killed, 16,000 wounded, and 4000 prisoners, while of the British

25 were killed and 99 wounded, of the Egyptians 21 killed and 230 wounded.
On the afternoon of the same day Kitchener entered Omdurman.

576 M. Halfaya, the terminus of the railway, with magazines,
barracks, stores, etc., is situated on the right bank of the Blue Nile,
opposite Khartﬁm. Off Halfaya lies the island of Tutz' (p. 387).

37. Khartﬁm and Omdurman.

Arrival. The tourist and mail trains are met at Halfaya by a stern-
wheel steamer, in which passengers are conveyed to Khartﬂm for 5 pias,
to Omdurmdn for 10 pias. The construction of a bridge between Halfaya
and Khartﬁm is projected.

Hotel. *Vrc'ronm HOTEL (Pl. v), opened at Khartﬁm in 1900, consists
of a number of one-story bungalows, very comfortably ﬁtted up, situated
on the Nile and commanding a ﬁne view; pens. from JEE 1 per day, less
for a stay of some time. Invalids are recommended to select the bungalows
behind, which are less exposed to the N. wind, though destitute of view.
— Beside the hotel is an open space in which tents for servants, etc., may
be pitched. — Information as to native servants, horses, donkeys, boats,
and guides for fowling may be obtained at the hotel. —- Cafe, P. Loiso‘s,
With billiard-table.

Post Ofﬁce beside the Government Shops (Pl. 0). -—- Telegraph Ofﬁce
in the Governor‘s Palace (Pl. b), on the S. side.

BANKS (P1. d). Branch-ofﬁces of the Anglo-Egyptian: Bank and the Bank of
Egypt. — TRAVELLING REQUISITES from [-1. cf V. Gavadzas, Walther rt 00., and

BAEDEKER’S Egypt. 5th Ed. 25

