to Assw‘m. GEBEL SILSILEH. 28. Route. 321

a *Relief of King Haremheb returning in triumph from his campaign in
Ethiopia. The Pharaoh is seated on his throne, which is borne by 12 soldiers
adorned. with fe'Ithers. Behind and before him are soldiers, warding off
the sun srays with the long-handled ﬂabellum. A priest precedes the litter,
oﬂ'ering incense, with a train of captured Ethiopians and three rows of
soldiers (among whom is a trumpeter). To the left the king and Ammon
stand upon prostrate negroes. Beneath the main scene is a recess, to the
left of which are negro prisoners, and to the right Egyptian soldiers march-
ing off captives. Note the free style of the attitudes of the barbarians,
which is quite without the usual stiffness of Egyptian drawing. Poetic
inscriptions above both reliefs extol the king as the conqueror of the in«
habitants of Kush (EthiOpia): ‘Hail to thee, King of Egypt". Thy name is
extolled in the land of the Ethiopians‘, etc.

Fartber to the right and also in the back-wall is a recess (Pl. 2) with
the ﬁgure in high-relief (full-face) of Khai', an ofﬁcial under Ramses 11. -—
Pl. 3. Above, inscription with a representation of King Si-Ptah bringing
ﬂowers to Antmon, while his ofﬁcial Bai‘ bolds the ﬂabellum behind;
bel'iw, King Haremheb shooting arrows against an enemy. — Pl. 4. Memorial
tablet of the 2nd year of Merenptah: the king otIering an image of Maat,
goddess of truth, to AmmonrR’é and Mut; behind the king are Queen
Eset-nofret, with a sistrum, and tbe vizier Panehsi. with a ﬂabellum —
Pl. 5 (recess). Figure in high-relief of a man holding his left hand before
his breast. —— Pl. 6. Tablet placed by Kha-me-iset, son of Ramses 11., in
memory of the fourth jubilee of Ramses 11. -— Pl. 7 (to the right of the
door). Similar inscription of Kha-me-wEset. — Pl. 8. Small relief of a man
named Moi, in prayer. —- Pl. 9 (in a recess), large ﬁgure, in high-relief,
of Prince Kha-me-weset (see above). —P1. 10. Defaced relief of Kha-me-wéset
receiving offerings. -— P1. 11. Tablet, erected by the fan-bearer Moi‘, in
memory of the jubilees of Ramses 11.; to the left is the kneeling ﬁgure
ofMoi'; above is Ramses 11. presenting an image of ‘integrity‘ to Ammon,
Harmachis, Maat, Ptah, and Sobk, the local deity of Silsileh. -— P1. 12.
Relief of a vizier, beneath which is a dainty little representation of a.
column with a palm-capital. — P1. 13. Memorial tablet of the 45th year of
Ramses 11., dedicated by a, high ofﬁcial, who appears kneeling below,
with a ﬂabellum; above, the king presents an image of integrity to Am-
mon, the great Mut, Khons, Harmachis, and Sobk (head injured). — Pl. 14
(in the corner) Tbree men praying. —— On the N. End Wall (Pl. h) is a.
recess with six ﬁgures in high-relief. On the E.Wall, at Pl. 1', and on the
Entrance Pillars are numerous memorial inscriptions. — In the Doorway
(Pl. 9) from the ﬁrst chamber to the second (B) are representations of
King Haremheb sacriﬁcing to Harmachis and the goddess Ews-os (on the
left) and to Ammon and Mut (on the right). — On the side-walls of Room B
are representations of the gods; in the rear-wall is a recess (P1. In) with
a much damaged relief of Ammon seated in the midst of six other gods.

The route goes on to the S. from the Rock Chapel, sometimes
skirting the river-bank, sometimes leading through the ancient
quarries, probably exhausted during the Roman perlod. It passes a
number of rock—inscriptions and tomb-recesses.

We ﬁrst reach a rock facing the river, with three Memorial Inscriptions
upon it: to the left, Ramses 111. before Ammon, Mut, and Khons; in the
middle, Sheshonk 1. (erecter of the tablet) conducted by the goddess Mut
before Ammon, Harmachis, and Ptah, while behind the king is his .son,
Yewpet, high-priest of Ammon-Ré and general-in-chlefz, to the right,
Ramses 1X., worshipping Ammon, Mut, Khons, and Sobk. .

Farther on is a Recess with a painted ceiling, on the left door-Jamb
of which is the praying ﬁgure of Thutmosis, scribe of the sxlver house.
Another Recess, with a ceiling ﬁnely painted with spiral patterns, etc., has
the names of Thutmosis 111. and of Hatshepsowet (destroyed) on the lintel.

Fartber to the 8., close to the river, are three Recesses side by side. The
northernmost of these belonged to Min-nakht, royal scribe and overseer
of the granaries of the N. and S.:, on the left wall is a ﬁne relief showmg

BAEDEKERE Egvnt. 5th JILL—- ‘21 ()9

, ~~.

