to b’eneh. hENEH. 21. Route. 225

right contains an image of the deceased, from that to the left a mummy-
shaft descends obliquely; adjacent is a Coptic inscription. In the deeply
recessed rear-wall of the left side are four smaller niches, probably in-
tended for the cofﬁns. This tomb also contains inscriptions of the Middle
Empire, recording its restoration by a descendant of Zauti. — The next
tomb, farther to the right, is of even greater interest than the one just
described. It belonged to a prince named Etu. The tomb is in the form
of a rectangle, with the mummy-shaft opening in the back-wall. The
representation of Etu, to the left of the entrance, is very lifelike and
derives peculiar interest from the fact that the grandees of the early period
are seldom represented, as here, in full military activity. Our hero lifts
the arm vigorously to strike his foe. The mode of wearing the hair and
headdress, seen both in this ﬁgure and that of Etu‘s wife, is unusual.
Etu was a rich man, possessing, according to the inscriptions, 2350 oxen.
On the left side of the rear-wall are several scenes from the private life
of the deceased. Cattle are being slaughtered, cooks are busy at their
work, etc. Above the door leading to the mummy-shaft we see an un-
usually large table, adjoining which is a long but much damaged in-
scription.

The smaller tombs in the vicinity are less interesting. Several Coptic
inscriptions testify that anchorites found retreats in these tombs during
the Christian period.

Farther 011 we pass a ﬁne mountain-mass, which looks especially
imposing by afternoon-light, and see several thriving villages, often
situated close to the river. 431/2 M. Ftiu (E. bank), with 5000
inhab., is the Coptic Phbow, where, at a large convent founded by
Pachomius, the monks Of all the convents in Egypt used to assemble
twice a year. A little farther to the S., on the E. bank, lay Tabennesz‘,
where Pachomius founded the ﬁrst convent about the middle of the
4th century.

461/2 M. Deshneh (Dechna). with 11,000 inhab., a railway and
steamboat station, is situated on the ruins of an ancient town.

65 M. Keneh (rail. and steamer station), the ancient Kainepolis,
a town with 27,500 inhab., lies on the E. bank of a canal, about
1 M. from the E. bank of the Nile. It is the capital of the ﬁfth
Mudiriyeh of Upper Egypt, with an area of 597 sq. M. and a popu-
lation of 711,4 57. The town has post and telegraph ofﬁces, a U.S.
commercial agent (Abd el-Amman'), and several hotels (Railway
Hotel; Hotel des Etmngers; Hotel (1’ Alexandrie). Keneh has a
special reputation for its Kulal (pl. of Kalle), or cool porous water-
bottles, and for other clay vessels. Hundreds Of thousands of these
vessels are annually exported from Keneh to Cairo and Alexandria
in boats of a primitive but not unpractical description, constructed
for the purpose. At the time of the pilgrimage to Mecca Keneh
presents a very lively scene, as it is then frequented by large numbers
of the participators in that great religious picnic. The spiritual
and material wants of the pious Hegdg are catered for by six spacious
mosques, numerous coﬁee—houses, and a large number of places of
amusement, among the attractions of which Egyptian dancing-girls
are prominent.

The tourist-steamers moor at the W. bank, for the visit to Dendera.

BAnDnKEn‘s Egypt. 5th Ed. 15

