BATHS. xxv

are still unoccupied, where he proceeds to undress. Valuables may,
if desired, be entrusted to the bath-owner. Wrapping a cloth round
his loins, he leaves his liwan, is provided with pattens or wooden
shoes {leablcéb}, and is conducted to the hot room (harc‘tra). Near
one of the basins here a linen cloth is spread for the bather, and he is
now left to perspire. As soon as the skin is thoroughly moist, he calls
for the attendant, who pulls and kneads the joints till they crack,
a process to which Europeans are not generally subjected. This is
followed by the pleasanter operation of shampooing, which is per—

 

    
  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

,_.__/

 

.1
1-1-”.4 51- WE.

 

 

 

 

.1. 4-5 .

‘ .KI‘Ei

1. Entrance. 2. Hash el- hammdm (a kind of antechamber, used also by the
poorer classes as a dressing-room). 3. Faskiyeh (fountain). 4 Liwc‘m (better
dressing—rooms, generally consisting of two divisions. the el lzwdn el- -falldsi,
with straw-mats, and the el—lz‘wdn el-‘dl, with cushions. for the richer
bathers). 5. Coffee—seller. 6. 867— el— awwel (warmed dressing— r—oom for cold
weather). 8. Latrines. 7. Entrance to the—9.Ha1d1a(0r‘sudatorium).
10. Liwdn. 11. Maghyas (cabinets with basins). 12. {Ianefiyeh (chambers
with basins and taps for hot water). 13. Furnaces. 14. Boilers.

formed by the abu 1623 or abu séban, who is requested to do his duty
with the word ‘keiyisni’ (rub me), and who then rubs the bather
with the leis, a rough piece of felt. The attendant next thoroughly
soaps the bather, and concludes the operations by pouring bowls of
warm water over his head. If the water is too hot the bather may
ask for cold (‘hét moyeh bdrideh’), or say ‘enough’ (bes). After this
process douches of hot or cold water may be indulged in according
to inclination, but the most refreshing plan is to change the temper-
ature gradually from hot to cold, the direction to the attendant being
‘moyeh bdridehl’ When desirous ofleaving the hot room, the bather
says to the attendant ‘hat fdpa’ (bring a towel), whereupon he is

 

