158 Route 11. murmur ran-gaunt".

HISTORY. Mansura (Le. ‘the victorious”) was founded by Sultan Mo-
hammed Kamil lbn ‘Adil in 1222, as an advantageous substitute for Da-
mietta (comp. p. 160). The ﬁrst serious attack made on Mansﬁra was by
the Crusaders under Louis 1X. of France in 1249. After encountering great
difﬁculties they succeeded in crossing the Ashmﬁn Canal, but in the neigh.
bourhood of Mansura they were repeatedly defeated by the young Sultan
el-Mo‘aggam Turanshah. Their ﬂeet was destroyed, and ‘famine-fever‘
broke out. When the ill-fated Crusaders attempted to escape they were
intercepted by the vigilant Turks, who thinned their ranks terribly and
captured the king with his brother Charles of Anjou and a number of
knights. On 6th May, 1250, Louis and his barons were released on pay-
ment of a heavy ransom, and on surrendering the town of Damietta.

The small mosque of Sanga, near the Russian vice-consulate, con—
tains columns brought from older ediﬁces, with Byzantine capitals of
Corinthian tendency, bearing Saracenic arches. The mimbar (pulpit)
and ceiling are still embellished with remains of ﬁne wood-carving,
which was originally painted. —— An unfounded tradition points out
an old house of Saladin’s time, near the El-Muwa‘ﬁlc Mosque, as
the prison of Louis IX. (see above). — The Palace of the Khedive,
a large and unattractive building, is used as a law-court.

Railway to Darm‘etta, see p. 159; to Twila, see p. 159.

NARRow GAUGE RAILWAYS FROM MANsﬁRA. 1. Via Nekitu, Nawas el- Ghét,
Aga (p. 157), Sanaitu, Tundmel, Fisha, Bishlu, 17am el-Buht‘yeh (p. 157),
Mit Ghamr (with about 12,000 inhab.-, station on the narrow-gauge line
to Sinbeldwin, p. 157), on the right bank of the Damietta branch of the
Nile, Film es-Safuriyeh, Mil ngi, §ahrugt (7000 inhab.), Kufr esh-Shékh,
Tesfu, Kafr Sholcr, and Gamgareh, to Benha (p. 23), and thence on via'
Beltdn and Bar-sham to the Barrage du Nil (p. 111). — 2. To Menzaleh.

EXCURSION '1‘0 BEHBiT EL-HAGER, 6-7 hrs. there and back (boat
25-30 pias.). In ascending the stream, the boat passes the town on
the left, lying close to the bank of the river. 0n the right is the vil-
lage of Géger, also known from an early period as Tell el— Yehadiyeh
(‘hill of the Jews’), inhabited by Arabs. Many of the Jews of Man-
sﬁra still cause their dead to be interred here. The next places are
Mil el—Ghomlca and Mit Ndbz't on the right, and Kafr Wish (Au‘ikh
el-Hagar) on the left. We land on the left bank after a row of 2 hrs.
The road to the ruins passes through a luxuriant growth of trees
(lime-trees, silver poplars, and willows, besides the sunt-tree, the
lebbek, the tamarisk, and the bernﬁf shrub). A walk of 40 min.
brings us to the ruins of Behbit el-Hager, the ancient ——

Iseum or Isidis Oppidum of the Romans. The ancient name of
the place was Hebet or Per-ehbét, or ‘House of the god of Hebet’
(i.e. Horus), of which the modern name is a corruption. Isis also
was worhipped here. Within a still distincly traceable girdle-wall
rises a heap of ruins, known as Huger el-deﬁs (buffalo stone),
which form the remains of the once magniﬁcent Isrs TEMPLE or
BEnBiT, built by Nekht-Har-ehbét (30th Dyn.) aud Ptolemy II.
Philadelphus. The ruins of the venerable sanctuary form an im-
posing and most picturesque mass of blocks, fragments of columns
and architraves, ceiling slabs, and other remains, altogether about
400 paces in circumference. The structure consisted entirely of
beautiful granite, chieﬂy grey, but partly red in colour.

