18 Route 2. ALEXANDRIA. Environs.

chateau Nimrch Teldteh (‘Number Three’; P1. N. T.) and the chateau
and garden of Moharrem-Bey.

The EXCURSION T0 MEKS (Mex) may be made by railway, by
boat_ from the Marina, by the electric tramway (p. 5), or by carriage
(p. 5). By rail we start from the principal station (P1. G, 5), pass
the stations of Hadra and Nuzha, cross the Mahmudryeh Canal, and
then turn towards the W. passing Gabbari, Phare, and Shefekhane
(comp. P1. E F, 8). The station for Meks is at (10 M.) Manazel.
Th e road (P1. D: C, 8) traverses the hilly ancient Necropolis of the
Ptolemaic period (p. 9). Between the road and the railway are the
gardens and palace of Gabbarz’, which have been converted into a
Quarantine or lazzaretto. In the friable limestone of the coast—hills
are a number of tomb-chambers, called Baths of Cleopatra ; but most
of them have been destroyed by the inroads of the sea, and are now
covered up. Farther on, to the right, is the large Slaughter House,
built in 1898. 011 the beach of Meks are a casino, sea-baths, and
several restaurants and cafes. To the S.W., close to the sea, is the
Bab el—‘Arab (‘Beduin Gate’), the extremity of a line of fortiﬁcations
extending between the sea and Lake Mareotis (p. 21). The quarries
of Meks (p.1ii) supplied the material for the new harbour—works.

RAMLEH is connected with Alexandria by a road beginning at
the Porte de Rosette and by two railways. On one of the railways,
however (Abukir-Rosetta line, p. 19, starting from the principal
station, P1. G, 5), there are only two trains daily to Ramleh.

The station of the DIRECT RAILWAY T0 RAMLEH lies to the N. E.
of the town (Pl. Gr, 2), trains every 1/2 hr. (1st cl. return— fare, 4pias.).

The so- called Roman Towe1 (Pl. G, 3), 1/411[[. to the E. of the station,
seems to be an early- -Arab e1ection.— To the W. of the station stood,
down to March, 1880, the famous obelisk called Cleopatras Needle, dating
from the time of the Pharaohs, and erected in front of the Caesareum. It
was presented to the city of New York by the Khedive Isma'il, and now
forms one of the prominent features of the Central Park there. —A com-
panion obelisk, that lay prone in the sand by the side of Cleopatra s Needle
until 1877, now adorns the Thames Embankment at London.

Projecting into the sea, to the left, soon after the departure, is
the small Fort Silseleh (P1. H, 1). We here obtain a retrospect of
the sickle—shaped S.E. side of the town.

The railway then traverses the rubbish—heaps of the ancient
Nicopolis, the large E. suburb of Alexandria founded by Augustus
on the site of his ﬁnal victory over the adherents of Antony. Near
Ibrahimtyeh, the ﬁrst station, are a Greek-Orthodox Church, numerous
villas, and the ﬁnely situated British Sporting Club, with its race-
course. Beside the next station, Sidi Gaber or Mustafa, is the tomb
of a highly revered Mohammedan saint, with a neighbouring mosque
built by the present Khedive. On an eminence to the left is a ruined
viceregal chateau, built by Isma‘il Pasha, now accommodating the
greater part of the British garrison, the remainder being under canvas
close by (Camp Moustapha). In the vicinity are the remains of the

