ESNEH. 26. Route. 309

stream. The large temple—buildings, which lay about 11/2 M. to the
NE, have been almost entirely destroyed. -— At Rizalcdt (el—Rezekat;
W. bank), 41/2 M. to the S.W. of Erment, is a necropolis of the
Middle Empire.

On the right bank, facing the curve which the Nile describes at
the village of Semid and 11/2 M. inland, lies the village of Tad, the
ancient Tuphium, with the remains of a small temple of the Ptol-
emies, dedicated to Mont, and a Christian basilica. Steles of the
12th and 13th Dyn. (now at Gizeh) were found at Salamiyeh, ‘2 M.
to the W. of Tud.

On the W. bank, opposite a large island, rises (181/2 M.) a ridge
with two summits, known as Gebelén, Le. the ‘two mountains’, on
the higher of which is the tomb of a Shélch Masa, beside the ruins
ofa temple of the Middle Empire. At the village of Gebelén, at
the W. base of the hill, lie the ruins of the ancient Crocodilopolis.

Extensive excavations carried on at this spot by Maspero yielded
sarcophagi of the Middle Empire and also numerous domestic articles, etc.,
appropriate to persons of comparative poverty. In the vicinity are graves
of crocodiles. In the immediate neighbourhood also once stood the ancient
Aphroditespolis, also called Pathyris (House of Hathor) from the Egyptian
name of Hathor, the goddess of the town. For some time this town was
the capital of a separate nome.

Beside the village of Dababiyeh (Debabieh), on the E. bank, are
quarries with interesting inscriptions.

20 M. (E. bank) Ma‘alla, near which are tombs of the New Em—
pire. Farther on we pass A§ffm el»Matc‘L‘na (W. bank, rail. station),
with large sugar-factories, the ancient Asphym‘s (Egypt. Hesfen).

The river-banks are picturesquely clad with extensive groves of
palms, but the smoking chimneys of the sugar—factories interfere
with the beauty of the scenery.

36 M. Esneh (W. bank, rail. station, p. 307), with the adjoining
town of Enyt, was even in antiquity one of the most important places
in Upper Egypt. Its Egyptian name was Te—snEt, whence came
the Coptic 8125 and the Arabic Esneh. The Greeks called it Lalo—
polz‘s, after the latos, a kind of ﬁsh venerated here. Esnell is now a
district capital with 15,000 inhab. (mostly Copts), and has post and
telegraph ofﬁces, a druggist’s shop, and numerous coffee-houses.

The small Coptic Church is of no special interest. The old quay
on the bank of the Nile, near the Mudiﬁyeh, also contains some
fragmentary inscriptions of the Roman imperial epoch. To the N.
of the town lies a small Palace of the Khedive (Kasr Efendina), now
used as a government-school. In the vicinity is a government-
hospital. — About 3/4 M. from the steamer-quay, and still to a large
extent buried in debris, is the chief object of interest, viz. the ——

*TEMPLE or KHNUM, the ram—headed local deity, associated with
whom were Neith, identiﬁed by the Greeks with Athena, and Satet.
The extant ediﬁces were probably built in the Ptolemaic period and
extended and embellished with inscriptions and reliefs by various

