HISTORY. lxxxiii

Ramses II. (Ramessi, 13‘24—1258 B.C.), the most celebrated of all
Egyptian kings. He waged tedious wars against the Hittites
(battle of Kadesh, p. 286), ﬁnally making a peace with them in
the 21 st year of his reign (p. 252), which left Palestine proper
in the possession of the Egyptians, While N. Syria was acknow-
ledged to be tributary to the Hittites. Ramses developed an
extraordinary building activity in the course of his reign of
67 years. Perhaps one—half of all the extant temples date from
this reign; and the name of Ramses is found in nearly every
group of ruins in Egypt. His largest temples were those of Abu
Simbel (p. 370), Karnak (p. 2-15), Luxor7 the Ramesseum, Abydos
(p. 218), Memphis (1). 131), and Bubastis. His tomb is at Bibén

Vel—Muliik (p. 270); his mummy at Gizeh (p. 80). Ramses II.
‘is frequently identiﬁed with the ‘Pharaoh of the Oppression”
(Exod. i, 11). Of his numerous sons only one survived him, viz. —

Amenephthes (Merenptah), who carried on campaigns against the
Libyans and their allies7 the peoples of the Mediterranean. His
mortuary temple is at Thebes (p. 287); his grave at Biban el—
Mulﬁk (p. 287).

Sethos II. was buried atBiban el-Mulﬁk (p. 270). His short reign was
followed by a period of anarchy, in which various claimants {Si—
Ptah, Amen-mesa) fought for the throne. Decline of the kingdom.

*XX. DYNASTY (1200-1100 B.C.).

Set-nakht succeeded in restoring peace.

Ramses III. (Ramess?) conquered the Libyans and in two great
battles repelled an invasion of barbarians who approached from
Asia Minor by land and by water, threatening Egypt. His reign
of 33 years was thereafter an epoch of peace and quiet, in which
several large buildings (6.9. the temple at Medinet Habu,
p. 299) were erected. The king presented great gifts to the
gods, especially to the Theban Ammon7 who had been richly
endowed by former kings also. The high—priest of Ammon gradu-
ally became the greatest power in the state. The king’s tomb
is at Biban el—Mulﬁk (p. 268); his mummy at Gizeh (p. 80).
His successors -—

Ramses IV.-Ramses XII. gradually fell more and more under the
control of the priests of Ammon. Their tombs are at Biban el-
Mulﬁk (pp. 264 et seq.). After the death of Ramses XII. _—

Herihor, high—priest of Ammon, seized the throne.

7. Period of Foreign Domination (1100-663 B.C.).
XXI. DYNASTY (TANITES).
The empire now fell to pieces. At Tanis a new dynasty arose (Psu-
sennes, Ammcmopet), which put an end to the rule of the high-
priests at Thebes. A line of Tanite princes (Pinotem), by mar-
riage—alliances with the high-priests, obtained the inﬂuential and
fax

