170 Route 14. ISMA'ILIYA. From Fort Sa‘id

1886 by Prof. Flinders Petrie, who found numerous fragments of pottery,
arrow-heads, weapons, and other articles. Mr. Petrie identiﬁes the spot
with the Greek Daphnae and with the Tachpanhes or Tehaphnehes of the
Bible (Jer. ii. 16; Ezek. xxx. 18, etc.).

The Canal traverses Lake Balah, from which it is separated by
a low embankment. At El-Fe'rddn (p. 164), at the S. end of the
lake, the Canal passes through the ﬁrst cutting. At the next passing
place we obtain a glimpse of the desert.

The hills of El-Gisr [‘the embankment’), which cross the course
of the Canal at an average height of 52 ft. above the sea-level,
presented the most serious obstacle to its construction. In order to
form a cutting through it, no less than 18,767,000 cubic yds. of
earth had to be removed, and 20,000 fellahin were employed in the
work before machinery could be-brought into operation. At the top
of the hill is the deserted village of El-Gisr, with a chapel to the
Virgin of the Desert, and a ruined mosque. A ﬂight of steps as-
cends to this point from the Canal. The view hence embraces a
great part of the Isthmus, the frowning ‘At'aka Mts. above Suez,
the mountains of the peninsula of Sinai, the course of the Canal,
and the green expanse of the Bitter Lakes.

At the end of the cutting the Canal enters Lake Timsah, or the
Crocodile Lake, the dredged channel through which is indicated by
stakes. As we enter the lake we see the Khedivial Chateau (see
below) above us to the right, and in the S. the mountains of Gebel
Abu Balah. The lake, which is now about 6 sq. M. in area, and of
a beautiful pale-blue colour, was, before the construction of the
Canal, a mere pond of brackish water, and full of reeds. On its N.
bank lies the town of ~-

Isma’iliya (Ismailz'a). —- Hotels. Vrcroma HOTEL (branch of Shep-
heard’s Hotel at Cairo), ﬁrst-class, near the quay, with pretty veranda,
lake-baths, etc. — Horn-RESTAURANT DES VOYAGEURS (proprietor, J. Basta).
— Railway Restaurant; luncheon or dinner should be ordered by telegram
by passengers coming from Port Sa'id.

Railway Station (p. 164), to the N.W., between the Enropean and Arab
quarters. —— TRAMWAY between the quay and the railway station. — STEAM
TRAMWAY to St. Vincent, a settlement to the E., in connection with the
steamers on the Canal, and to Port Sa'z‘d (p. 168).

Post Ofﬁce, Place Champollion, not far from the railway-station. ~—
Egyptian Telegraph Ofﬁce, beside the station

Chemists. G. B. Confalontert, Place Champollion, Pharmacie Inter-
nationale, Rue Negrelli.

Isma'iliya was the main centre of operations during the con-
struction of the Suez Canal, but it afterwards lost its importance.
A new period of prosperity, however, has begun since the great
Asiatic and Australian mail-steamers have ceased to call at Alexan-
dria, so that the trafﬁc between them and Cairo is carried on via
Port Sa'id and the Canal. The pretty gardens and plantations and
the view of the blue lake lend the town the appearance of an oasis,
with both European and Arabian cultivation. The air is healthy and
not moist, in spite of the proximity of the water.

