cxxvi RELIGION.

APIs, the sacred bull of Ptah of Memphis. For his distinctive mark-
ings, see p. cxix. The apis was buried in the Serapeum (p. 135).

AB-HES-NOFER (Arsnuphis), a Nubian god.

ATUM (Fig. 3), a local deity of Heliopolis, Pithom, etc., was after-
wards regarded as a sun—god (speciﬁcally the evening-sun). His
sacred animal was the lion, and the Mnevis bull was also de-
dicated to him.

BASTET, the goddess of Bubastis, a goddess of joy. Sacred animal,
the cat.

Bras, a p0pular deity, represented as a dwarf, introduced from the
land of Punt. He was the god of the toilet and also had in-
ﬂuence over births.

Buro, see Wt5.

EMiz-wm', a god of the dead, represented, like Anubis, with a
jackal’s head. His symbol was a post with a wine—skin hanging

011 it .

ENHER (Greek Omm's), the god of This and Sebennytos.

Ews—os, goddess of Heliopolis, the consort of Harmachis.

HAPI, one of the guardian-deities of the dead. See Amset.

HARENDOTES (Egypt. Har-net-yotf), ‘Horus who protects his father’
(Osiris), a form of Horus.

HAR-KHENT~KHETI, god of Athribis. Sacred animal, the serpent.

HARMACHIS (Fig. 5), a special form of Horus. He was the god of
Heliopolis and the chief god of Lower Egypt. The sparrow-
hawk was sacred to him. He is sometimes represented as a lion
with a human head (Sphinx, p. 123).

HARPOCRATES. Horus as a child, represented with side-locks and a
ﬁnger on his lips. The Greeks regarded him as god of silence.
He was much revered, especially at a late date.

HAR-SEM-TEWE, ‘Horus the uniter of the two lands’, a form of
Horus.

lIARsHBF, represented with a ram’s head, god of Heracleopolis.

HARsn’asrs, ‘Horus, son of Isis’, a form of Horus.

HATHOR (Fig. 6), a deity of the sky, and a goddess of joy and love,
identiﬁed by the Greeks with Aphrodite. She was the goddess
of Dendera and Aphroditespolis (p. 309) and was worshipped in
Thebes as guardian of the necropolis. The cow was sacred to her,
and she was frequently represented with a cow’s head (Fig. 7).

HORUS (Fig. 8) received universal homage as the sun-god. He was
the local deity of Edfu, where he is represented as a winged sun
(Fig. 20). He is usually described as the son of Osiris and Isis,
sometimes as the son of Re and brother of Set. The sparrow-
hawk was sacred to him.

IMBOTEP, a saint of Memphis, was revered as a priest and physician,
and was therefore identiﬁed by the Greeks with Asklepios
(Esculapiua). He had a temple at Philaa also. '

