78 Route 6. MUSEUM or GIZEH.

the Survey Department (Director, Capt. Lyons) and the Mudiriyeh
of the province of Gizeh, and a ﬁne view of the Pyramids. The
tramways halt at the Zoological Gardens (p. 105) and at the landing-
place for the ferry from Old Cairo (p. 69), about 5 min. walk from
the entrance of the Museum in the palace of Gizeh.

The Palace of Gizeh, a huge rambling ediﬁce, built in a light
and unsubstantial Oriental style, with about 500 saloons and apart-
ments, was erected by the Khedive Isma'il for his harem at a cost
stated at 120 million francs. In 1889 the Museum of Egyptian
Antiquities, formerly at Bulak, was installed here, but the process
of transferring this valuable collection to a more suitable and safer
ediﬁce, recently completed, has begun (see p. 40).

The “Museum of Egyptian Antiquities is the most valuable
collection of the kind. It was founded by the eminent French Egypt-
ologist Aug. Mariette (d. 1881). The present director is the no less
eminent G. Maspero; the conservator is Emil Brugsch-Bey, assisted
by Ahmed Kamal Bey and G. Daressy. —— The earliest description of
the Museum is Mariette’s ‘Les Principaux Monuments da Musée de
Boulacq' (1864) ; Maspero also published a ‘Guide du Visiteur auMusée
de Boulacq’ (1884). The present detailed Catalogue (1894), which
is sold at the entrance, though not perfect, is quite indiSpensable
for students. The more important and the more recently acquired
objects are provided with full descriptive labels in French. Owing
to the alterations consequent upon the removal to the new building,
the following description does not pretend to accuracy on all points.

The museum is open in winter daily, except Mon. and Frid., from
9.30 till 4.30, in summer (16th April to 15th Oct.) from 8.30 to
12; admission 5 piastres, free in summer. Sticks and umbrellas are
given up at the entrance and returned at the exit (no fee).

A special room is reserved for Students; apply to the director or to
one of the conservators. ——In the Sale Room (R. lxi) duplicates, etc., of the
antiquities may be purchased, at prices ﬁxed by the Museum authorities
and plainly marked on the objects offered. Purchases here made have, of
course, a guarantee of their genuineness (comp. also p. xv). A permit
to export is given with each purchase. — Travellers going on to Upper
Egypt should provide themselves here with :1. GENERAL Amrrssrox TICKET
at the Service des Antiquite’s de l'Egypte (f 1 E.:, comp. p. 184), admitting
them to all monuments.

In the Garden near the entrance is a tall pedestal supporting
a Sphinx in red granite, with the names of the Pharaoh Ramses II.,
added later. On the right of the road to the palace is the top of an
Obelisk, dating from the reign of Queen Makeré, whose ﬁgure was
replaced by sacriﬁcial tables under Thutmosis III. On a platform
of masonry in front of the main entrance rests the marble sarc0phagus
of Aug. Mariette (see above).

