ex HIEROGLYPHICS.

of the sun'; ;% s'etm' beyti, ‘King of Upper and Lower Egypt’r;
Q (3

‘2: web te’wi, ‘lord of both lands’ (p. lxxix); or Ca neb klra’w,

‘lord of the diadems’. Thutmosis 111., for example, a king of the
18th Dyn., was named —

rv§@@ s®<enl~

The former is his ofﬁcial name, the latter his ordinary name. 0 is
the original word—symbol (No. 1) '1", sun, sun-god Re; ﬂit. is the
syllabic sign (No. 1) mn, here, however, standing for the word-

symbol for ‘to remain’; a is the transferred word-symbol (No. 22)

khp'r, ‘to become, to be‘. The ﬁrst name therefore is R'-mn-khp'r, or,
rather, as the words signifying god or king are written ﬁrst out. of
reverence merely, mn—khpr-R", ‘remains the being of Re” (vocalized

Men—kheper-RE‘). In the second cartouche, E E is the original
a \\

word—symbol (No. 10) Thwt’i, ‘the god Thout’; Q and \\ are the
letters t and '1', indicating the sound of Thwt'i; m is the syllabic
symbol (No. 5) ms'; and H the letter 3', added to show the sound

of ms'. The whole is thus Thwt'i—ms', corresponding to the Greek
Thutmosis, and probably to be vocalized Tbewt'i—mose.

It may here be remarked that the Egyptian names occurring in
the Handbook are, wherever practicable, written in the traditional
Greek form and not in the native Egyptian, e.g. Sethos instead of
Sti, Kheops (Cheopr) instead of Khwfw. For names of which there
are no known Greek transliterations the Egyptian forms are given,
with vowels inserted on the principles explained above. In these
cases, however, the dots under the letters are omitted, so that no dif-
ference is made between t and _t, z and g, Ia and (c, or h and b,- w is
sometimes represented by u; y by i; I} and h by kh; s' by s,- and in
certain cases y is altogether omitted. The apostrophes’ and ‘ are
uniformly omitted. In short, the general rules adopted by the
Greeks for the transliteration of Egyptian words are followed. —
The ﬁnal 5 in Egyptian names does not mean that the vowel is long,
but merely that it is to be pronounced as a separate syllable.

