322 Route ‘28. GEBEL SILSILEH. From Ed/‘u

the deceased and a companion at table; on the rear-wall are three seated
ligures. — More to the S. is the Tomb of Amenemhét, high-priest of Ammon,
with ﬁne reliefs and well—preserved colouring; in a recess in the rear-wall
appears the deceased, to whom attendants hring food and drink, and on
the side-walls are the deceased and his Wife Mimi, etc.

After skirting the bushy river-bank for 1/4 hr. we reach the
S. MONUMENTS, offering a picturesque appearance as seen from the
Nile. The chief of these are two Recesses about 6 ft. deep, which lie
close beside each other. The architraves over the entrances are
adorned with concave corniccs and urzeus—serpents and are borne by
clustered columns. That to the N. (right) was erected by Meren-
ptah 1., in the ﬁrst ycar of his reign; it represents the king sacriﬁcing
to Harmachis, Ptah, and a Nile-god (on the right), and to Ammon,
Nut, and Khons (on the left). Beneath is a long hymn to the Nile
and lists of offerings to be made to the river-god. On each of the
narrow side-walls are injured reliefs of the king sacriﬁcing to the
gods. — The scenes in the S. recess are repetitions of these, except
that Merenptah is replaced by Ramses 11., who constructed the recess
in the ﬁrst year of his reign. -— On the rock between these recesses
is a door-shaped Stale, on which King Merenptah is shown present-
ing a ﬁgure of Maat to Ammon; the king is followed by a prince and
by the vizier Panehsi, who erected this stele to his master. —— Farther
to the S. is another Stele, on which Merenptah sacriﬁces to Ammon,
while behind him is Roi, high—priest of Ammon, who dedicated this
monument.

On a curious isolated sandstone rock, to the right, is a Stele of
the 6th year of Ramses 111., showing the king sacriﬁcing to Ammon,
Harmachis, and the god of the Nile. On the same rock, to the left,
appears a priest revering the names of Sethos 1. — A few paces
farther to the S., and at a lower level than those steles, is another
and much ruincd recess, dating from the reign of Sethos 1. On the
river-bank are traces of an ancient ﬂight of steps descending to
the stream.

The largest QUARRIES, worked espccially under the New Empire,
are found on the E. bank of the Nile. In the reign ofRamses 11. no
fewer than 3000 workmen were employed here for the Ramesseum
alone. An Inscription of Amcnophis 111. records the transport of
stones by the Nile for a temple of Ptah. There are two Posts of the
time of Sethos 1., Demotic Inscriptions from Roman times and an
unﬁnished colossal Sphinx (near the river-bank). — At the N. end
of the quarries are found the scanty ruins of the ancient town Khenu
and its temple (fragmentary inscriptions of Ramses 11.). To the
12., towards the top of the rock, is a stele of Amenophis IV., record-
ing that Amenophis caused an obelisk for the temple of the sun at
Karnak to be quarried here.

The mountains recede from the river immediately above the
deﬁle of Gebel Silsileh (p. 3‘20), giving space to the desert, which
appears grey on the Arabian side and yellow on the Libyan side.

