lviii TREES AND PLANTATIONS.

raw, introduced from India in the time of the khalifs, is cultivated in
every part of the country.

k. VEGETABLES. 1. Bamyas, or Hibiscus esculentus (bdmiya). 2. On-
ions (bagal), one of the chief exports of Egypt. 3. Pumpkins (Icar‘a).
4. Cucumbers (khiydr). 5. Egyptian cucumbers (frequently trumpet-shaped
and ribbed; different varieties called ‘abdeldwi, 'agar, etc.). 6. Melons
(Iceman,- the best, shammdm). 7. Water-melons (battikh). 8. Melonzanes
(hddingdn). 9. Tomatoes (tomdtt’n). 10. Corchorus olitorius (melakhiyeh).
11. Colocasia (lcullcris). 12. Garlic (Wm). 13. Mallows (khobﬁézeh). 14. Cab-
bage (km'umb). 15. Celery (kerafs). 16. Radishes, a peculiar kind, with
ﬂeshy leaves, which form a favourite article of food (ﬁgl). 17. Lettuces
(khass). 18. Sorrel (hommégl). 19. Spinach (es-sibdnikh). 20. Parsley (balc-
danis). 21. Purslane (Mgl). 22. Turnips (lift). 23. Carrots (gezer, a peculiar
kind, with red juice). 24. Beetroot (hangar). 25. Cress (Eruca sativa;
girgt‘r). A variety of other vegetables are cultivated in small quantities
in gardens, exclusively for the use of European residents.

V. TREES AND PLANTATIONS. During the last thirty or forty
years trees have been so extensively planted that Egypt now pre-
sents a more richly wooded appearance than formerly. In ancient
times every square foot of arable land seems to have been exclu-
sively devoted to the cultivation of industrial crops, the natives
preferring to import from foreign countries the timber they required
for ship-building purposes, and probably also the small quantity
employed in the construction of their temples. Mohammed “Ali,
a great patron of horticulture, at one time offered prizes for the
planting of trees, but his efforts were unattended with Success, as
the climatic and other difﬁculties attending the task were then but
imperfectly understood in Egypt. Ibrahim followed the example of
his predecessor, but Abbas I. and Said were sworn enemies to trees
of every kind, and they were content that their palaces should be
exposed to the full glare of the sun. The Khedive Isma'il, however,
at length revived the plans of his celebrated ancestor, and by the
engagement of M. Barillet (1869), superintendent of the gardens
of Paris, one of the most skilful landscape-gardeners of the day,
introduced an entirely new feature into Egyptian scenery. The ﬁnest
of the shade—trees, both on account of its umbrageousness and the
excellence of its wood, and one which thrives admirably, is the
lebbelc (Albizzia Lebbek), which has long been erroneously called by
travellers‘the acacia of the Nile (the latter being properly the sun;
tree). Within forty years the lebbek attains a height of 80 ft. and
a great thickness, while the branches project to a long distance over
the roads, covering them with a dense leafy canopy within a remark-
ably short time. Among the most important of the other kinds of
trees thus planted are the magniﬁcent ‘Flamboyer des Indes’ (Poin-
ciana pulcherrima), the rapidly-growing Eucalyptus, tropical ﬁg-
trees, and several rare varieties of palms.

The commonest TREES OF AN EARLIER PERIOD which the trav-
eller will encounter in every town in Egypt are the following: -—
The Acacia Nilotica (smut). the thorn-tree of antiquity. the pods
(ltarad) of which, resembling rosaries, yield an excellent material
for tanning purposes. Next to the palm, this is the tree most fre-

