HISTORY OF ART. cxlv

existence of these is due to modiﬁcations of the original plan or to
later alterations (p. 115). The recess or the room in which sacriﬁces
were offered to the dead in the mastabas was represented in the case
of the pyramids by a small detached temple on the E. side, remains
of which have been discovered in various instances (p. 1‘20).

The custom of placing their tombs beside that of the monarch
was gradually abandoned by the nobles at the close of the Ancient
Empire; they preferred to be buried near their own homes. Like
the Pharaohs they built for themselves small brick—pyramids upon
square or rectangular bases. Thetomb-chamber was formed in the
thickness of the wall and a tombstone was placed on the outside,
before which the survivors recited their prayers or presented their
offerings. But the high and steep declivity of the desert-plateau
did not always offer space enough for such free-standing tombs ; and
at various points (6.9. Benihasan, Assii‘it, Assuan, etc.) graves were
hewn in the rock, a practice of which there were isolated examples
even under the Ancient Empire (p. 1‘28). In accordance with the
fundamental conception of the tomb as the House of the Dead, each
grave must contain the three principal divisions of the ancient Egypt.-
ian dwelling-house — the open court, the broad hall, and the deep
and narrow eating-room. Thus a Fore Court, surrounded with a
brick-wall, was provided in the open air in front of the tomb,
generally ending in a small colonnade with two pillars or columns
hewn in the solid rock. Beyond this was a large Chamber with
columns, followed by a small Chamber or Recess, which contained
the statue of the deceased, frequently accompanied by that of his
Wife, hewn out of the rock, and thus corresponded to the serdab of
the old mastabas.

This dwelling-house arrangement is most distinctly seen in the
rock-tombs of Benihasan and Assuan (comp. pp. 197, 332). The
inner walls are covered with inscriptions and representations, which,
though more varied in subject than those of the earlier tombs, agree
with them in being intended to provide for the enjoyment of the
deceased. The unembellished sarcophagus-chamber was reached
by a perpendicular shaft hewn in the rock from the ﬁrst hall.

The TOMBS or THE NEW EMPIRE coincide in their general feat-
ures with those of the Middle Empire. At this date also bothfree-
standing and rock-hewn tombs occur, according to the nature of the
site at different places. The former variety of tomb is now, however,
represented by very scanty remains. In the rock-tombs a narrow
corridor is frequently found between the ﬁrst hall and the inner
chamber with the statues; for their general arrangement and decora-
tion, see the remarks on p.262. About the middle of the 18th Dyn.
the Pharaohs also ceased to build pyramids as their last resting
places, and prepared their tombs in the slopes of a sequestered
mountain—valley on the W. bank of the Nile near Thebes. These
ROYAL TOMBS or THE NEW EMPIRE comprised long corridors and

BAEDExEnib-Egypt. 5th Ed. "" k

