xlii THE MODERN EGYPTIANS. Beduins

is also named Cyrillos. To the llomanists is partly due the preserva-
tion of the old COptic language, into which they caused the Gospels
to be translated by the most learned scholars of the day for circula-
tion in Egypt. Notwithstanding the serious defects to which we
have alluded, the COptic community boasts of a number of highly
reSpectable members, and in Spite of the frequent heavy contribu-
tions levied from the sect by previous governments, it contains sev-
eral wealthy land-owners and merchants.

3. BEDUINS. Bedu (sing. bedawi) is the name applied to the
nomadic Arabs, and rArab to those who immigrated at a. later pe-
riod and settled in the valley of the Nile. They both differ mate-
rially from the dwellers in towns and from the fellahin. The sub-
divisions of the Beduin tribes are called Kabilch (whence the name
Kabyles, applied to some of the Algerian Beduins). Though dif-
ering greatly in origin and language, the wandering tribes of Egypt
all profess Mohammedanism. Again, while some of them have im-
migrated from Arabia or Syria, partly in very ancient, and partly
in modern times, and While others are supposed to be the aboriginal
inhabitants of the territories claimed by them (as the Berbers of
N. Africa and the EthiOpians and Blemmyes of Nubia), or former
dwellers on the Nile expelled from their homes by foreign invaders,
they all differ greatly from the stationary Egyptian p0pulation; and
this contrast is accounted for by the radical difference between the
inﬂuences of the desert and those of the Nile valley.

According to the census of 1897 there were 601,427 Beduins
within the limits of Egypt, of whom 530,955 were settled in towns
and villages.

The Beduins may be divided into two leading groups: (1) Beduins
in the narrower sense, i.e. Arabic-Speaking tribes, most of whom
have probably immigrated from Arabia or Syria, and who occupy
the deserts adjoining Central and Northern Egypt; (2) ‘Bega’, who
range over the regions of Upper Egypt and Nubia situated between
the Nile and the Red Sea, and extending to the frontiers of the
Abyssinian mountains. These are the descendants of the ancient
Blemmyes (p. 352; their territory being known as ‘Edbai’). The
three principal races of the second group, with whom alone we have
to deal as inhabitants of Egypt, are the Hadendoa, the Bishdrin,
and the 'Abtibdeh. They are widely scattered in the valleys of the
desert (pp. 344-348), between the trOpics and the latitude of Keneh
and Kosér, and lead a vaerty-stricken life with their very scanty
stock of camels and goats. Though closely resembling the other
Bega tribes in appearance, the ‘Ababdeh (sing. Abadi, the Gebadei
of Pliny) possess an original language of their own (‘to-bedyawiyeh’),
Which, however, they have long since exchanged for bad Arabic.
They have also adopted the costume of the fellahin, While the Bis-
harin and Hadendoa tend their large ﬂocks of sheep and herds of
camels in a half-naked condition, girded with a leathern apron and

