to Khartdm. EL-ABADiYEH. 36. Route. 383

and at its base extend the ruins of the ancient Ethiopian city of Napata.
Under the New Empire Napata was the southernmost town under Egyptian
rule and the chief depot of the trade with the Sudan. It attained the zenith
01 Its prosperity in the 9th cent. B.C., when it became the capital of an in-
dependent Ethiopian kingdom (p. 351). Taharka and his successors (p. lxxxiv).
res-ded here and built sumptuous temples t'or Amnion-Re and other deities.
When the royal residence was transferred about 600 13.0. to Meroé (p. 384),
Napata began to decline; and although it afterwards became the seat of
the court more than once and though it remained throughout the religious
centre of the kingdom, it never regained its former prosperity. The extant
ruins include many pyramids, diﬂ'ering from those of Egypt by their
slender form, and several temples, of which those built by RanlSes II.
and by Tallarka are specially noteworthy; but the remains of the city are
on the whole very scanty. Cailliaud explored the site in 1822 and Lensius
in 1844. — Upposite Meraui lies the village of Abu Dom; not far off, in
the desert, is the Wadi Gazdl, with the ruins ofa large Christian convent.
— On the same (left) bank, about 9 M. above Abu Dom, is a group of
about two dozen pyramids, probably older than those of the Grebel Barkal.
They are built of soft sandstone and are much weatherworn.

About 9 M. to the S.W. of Meraui, and easily reached on donkey-
back, are two groups of pyramids, one at El—Km-ru on the right bank of
the Nile, the other at Tangassi on the left bank. The river is crossed in
a boat made of palm—trunks or (not without danger) on a light raft of
sorghum-stems. —— There is another group of about 30 pyramids near
the village of Zﬁma, on the right bank, about 2% M. farther down.

Still farther to the S.\\’. in the Nile valley, on the left bank about
30 M. from Meraui, lies Korti, which was General Wolseley"s headquar-
ters in Dec., 1884, during his unavailing dash to relieve Gordon (p. 385).
On the same bank, 60 M. farther to the S., is Abu Gussl', an important
trading-point with the Kubahish Beduins, and the starting-point of a
caravan-route to El—Obéd (p. 390; 14-20 days‘journey), On the right bank,
5 M. farther down, lies Dongola el—Agusa (‘Old Dongola‘), the now deserted
former capital of the province. rl‘hence to New Dongola (p. 382), 75 M.

Beyond Abu llammed the railway descends the valley of the Nile
on the border line between the Atmar (steppe) on the E. and the
cultivable belt on the river-bank on the W. The latter is marked
by palm—trees and, lower down, by a bushy undergrowth. Between
Nov. and Jan. the verdant strip reminds one of the bank of the Nile
in Egypt.

248 M. Robutab—Dakhesh is the residence of a mudir, whose
spacious white house is seen at a little distance from the village.
The Robatab and Shékiyeh tribes, together with a few sub-tribes,
constitute the great Arab group of the Monasir, whose territory is
bounded on the N. by that of the Barabra and Bisharin Arabs.
The Monasir preserve a number of ancient legends concerning the
wanderings, feuds, and inter-marriages of their ancestors, and are
exceedingly proud of these ‘histories of God’s people’. In 1884
001. Stewart, General Gordon‘s chief assistant, Rousset, the French
consul, and a Greek were treacherously decoyed to the left bank
and murdered by this people, an atrocity by which Gordon’s isolation
was hastened and his ultimate fate sealed.

267 M. Abu Dis; 29‘} M. Sherék; 318 M. Abu Selim.

343 M. El—Abddiyeh, situated above the Fifth Cataract, is a water—
ing and repairing station for locomotives. 1n the summer of 1898
half-a-dozen stern-wheel gun-boats and three large screw-steamers

