314 Route 26. KOM EL-AnMAR.

on the Left Wall are unﬁnished; the red lines to assist the draughtsmen
may still be noticed. The Bear Wall is much damaged; to_the fight we
see the deceased and his wife at table, to the left, the relatives in rows.

The tomb of Renni, nomarch and high-priest, still farther to
the left (W.), contains representations resembling those in the

tomb of Paheri (p. 313), but not so skilfully executed.

On the Left Wall are harvest—scenes; the deceased and his wife at
table, with their relatives seated opposite. On the Right Wall, the funeral
and accompanying ceremonies. In the Rear Wall is a recess wilh a seated
statue of the deceased, now quite destroyed.

The last three tombs farther to the left (W.) appear to date from
a period before the New Empire.

One of these belongs to a man and his wife AH-Nornu a lady attached
to the royal harem. Another (with a vaulted ceiling) %elonged to Brain
and his wife Sebek-nakht, who also was a lady of the harem. The third
consists of a vaulted chamber with a tastefully adorned ceiling and a room
with the shaft. It dates from the reign of Sebek—hotep II. (13th Dyn.).

A little to the W. of the hill of tombs stood a small Temple of
Thutmosis 111., now destroyed.

On the W. bank opposite el-K'ab, about 1/2 M. from the river,
lies the village of Muissat (Mo’isdt), and farther on, about 3 M. from
the river, on the edge of the desert, rises the -——-

Kém el-Ahmar (“Red Hill’), with the ruins and tombs of Hiera-
Iconpolis.

Hierakonpolis (Egypt. Nekhen) was one of the most ancient cities in
the country and perhaps originally the capital of Upper Egypt. Its god was
a Horus, to whom the sparrow-hawk was sacred, whence arose the Greek
name Hierakonpolis (‘city of hawks”). A little to the N., beyond a broad
desert route, is a second mass of ruins, amongst which is a large Fort, with
a lower outer wall and a high inner wall of unburnt bricks. On the E.
side is a sally-port. In the adjoining cultivated land lay the Temple of
Nekhen, in which Quibell discovered in 1897-98 some important sculptures
of the earliest period, besides others of later date, including the bronze
group of Pepi I. and his son (p. 85) and a ﬁne bronze hawk. —— To the
W. are a few rock—tombs of the Early and Middle Empires, one without
inscriptions and two with designs and inscriptions upon stucco. —— About
1/4 hr. farther to the W., also on the hill of Kdm el—Ahmar, are eight rock-
tombs, dating from the beginning of the New Empire, of which Only the
ﬁrst to the right or N. (Thouti, of the time of Thutmosis I.) and the ﬁrst
tc the left or S. (Harmosé, high—priest of Nekhen) repay a visit. The
structure of these tombs resembles that of the tombs at el-Kab. At the
inner end of each is a recess with a statue of the deceased and his wife.
In the tomb of Harmose dancing-girls are painted upon stucco.

67 M. (13 M. from el-Kab) Edfu, on the W. bank.

27. Edfu.

Edfu is a steamboat-station. The Tourist Steamers spend a night here
on their upward journey. The Railway Station (p. 308) is opposite the town,
on the E. bank.

Modest quarters are offered by the small ‘Hotel‘ kept by an Arab. -
Donkeys are to be had at the landing-place.

Edfu, a district capital with 14,260 inhab. (including the sub-
urbs), and a post and telegraph ofﬁce, was 'called in antiquity Tbét,
Coptish Albé, whence is derived the modern Arabic name Edfu.

