9.Med2netHabu. THERES(\V.B.-\NK). 21.1mm. 297

tainous landscape; in front stands a sycamore, from which Hathor (this
time in human-form) pours out Nile water to revive the queen. — In
Side Chamber .5 IS the mummy-shaft (caution necessary). —— In the inner-
most Chamber 6‘ Osiris sits enthroned on the rear-wall; before him stand
Neith and Selket and behind him Nephthys and Isis and also Thout. 0n
the walls e and_ f are the genii of the dead and other gods seated at ban-
quet-tables, while the queen (9, h) prays to them.

Adjoining this grave on the left is the very similar tomb of
QUEEN Essr, mother of Ramses VI. It is difﬁcult of access and
scarcely repays a visit.

0n the opposite (N.) side of the valley are the tombs of the
daughters of Ramses II.'. Merit-Amen, Nebt-tewe, and Bent-Anat.
—— In a smaller side-valley, running parallel to the one just men-
tioned and a few yards to the S., are the tombs of Sat-re, wife of
Sethos 1., and of an Unknown Queen, with representations of beds,
chairs, boxes, and other furniture of the dead.

9. Medinet Habu.

Visitors to Medinet Habu should consult the ‘Natz‘ce explicative des
rm'nes de Médinet Habau’, by Georges Daressy (Cairo, 1897), a detailed de-
scription issued by the Archaeological Administration. — The Inspector
General of the Antiquities lives close by the temple.

About 1 M. from Dér el-Medineh and 1/2 M. from the Memnon
colossi (p. 305), in a conspicuous situation, lies the southernmost
temple-group of the Theban Necropolis. This bears the name of
Medinet Habu, a Christian village which arose around and even
within the ancient sanctuary as early as the 5th cent., and ofwhich
considerable traces still remain.

The entire ediﬁce may be divided into two easily distinguished
portions. One of these is the small temple of the 18th Dynasty
(p. 303), afterwards enlarged. The other is the main temple of
Ramses III. (p. 299), which was enclosed by a crenelated wall,
23 ft. high. We pass in front of the pylon and other buildings in
front of the small temple, and visit ﬁrst the structure of Ramses.

We pass through the outer wall, by means ofa Gate (Pl. A),
about 3 ft. wide, which is ﬂanked by two small Porter’s Lodges. Be-
yond these we are confronted by the remarkable ediﬁce, resembling
a castle and known as the Pavilion of Ramses 111., which forms
the entrance to the precincts of the temple instead of the usual
massive pylon and portals of stone. This structure reproduces the
shape of the Syrian fortresses which occur so often in reliefs (e.g. on
the ﬁrst pylon of the Ramesseum, p. 284). Two tall towers (Pl. 6, c),
with almost imperceptibly sloping walls and with their E. sides resting
upon a battering foundation-wall, enclose a narrow court, gradually
contracting towards the back, where a door (Pl. (1) has been formed
in the central erection joining the towers. This ediﬁce, which is
built of hewn stone, is only the inner kernel of the ancient building;
it was originally adjoined on each side by brick structures of the
full breadth of the present facade. These, however, were destroyed

