BUILDINGS OF THE MOHAMMEDANS. clxvii

cornice-shelf, on which are arranged porcelain, chased metal-work,
and similar ornaments. Instead of panelling, the walls of the durka‘a
have coloured marble mosaics. The upper part of the walls is usually
covered with smooth plaster, or, in exceptional cases, with plaques
of coloured fayence. The expanse of white wall is usually broken by
a grated recess intended for female singers and accessible by a short
ﬂight of steps from without. At the very t0p of the wall is a broad
concave frieze, embellished with inscriptions or stalactites, and form-
ing the transition to the usually elaborate ceiling-decorations. Light
and air are admitted to the room from one of the ends, where mushre-
biyehs are inserted in the lower part of the wall and kamariyehs in
the upper part.

The Public Baths, usually of quite unpretending exterior, are
frequently very large erections in which marble is not spared,
though few have any claims to artistic importance. A visit to one
of these simple vapour -caths is not uninteresting (comp. p. xxiv).

The 0kellas‘(p. 38) were important ediﬂces when the caravan
trade, especially the caravan-trade with the Red Sea, ﬂourished.
Their often extensive facades exhibit peculiar carvings. The portals
resemble those of the mosques, and the locks and fastenings of the
outer shops are sometimes carved. The central hypaethral court ac-
commod ated the caravan, the goods brought by which were deposited
in vaulted chambers on the groundﬂoor, while the rooms in the
upper stories. Opening off galleries, were used as lodgings by the
merchants. The centre of the court was probably invariably occu—
pied by a Mosalla.

When we come to analyse the impressions produced by a study
of Arabic buildings in Egypt, we ﬁnd that our admiration of the
harmonious and tasteful ornamentation, unsurpassed by any school
of architecture, is counterbalanced by a certain feeling of asthetic
dissatisfaction, prompted by the numerous incongruities arising
from unsystematic and unskilful treatment of architectonic details.
Part of this dissatisfaction is doubtless to be placed to the account
of the dilapidated condition of most of the buildings. But the real
reason why Arabian art failed to reach a high level in technical
ability as well as in ornamentation must be looked for in the early
collapse of the great empire of the Khalifs; in the uncertain and
vacillating political circumstances of the period that followed; in
climatic and geological conditions; in the inﬂuence of superstition;
and in the characteristic Oriental tendency to adhere with obstinate
ﬁdelity to ancient forms and to leave unaltered anything that has
once been accomplished. However much admiration the arabesque
may excite, however great an inﬂuence it may exert on industrial
art, we still miss in it the reproduction of living beings, the con-
templation of which invites, as it were, an intelligent and active
sympathy.

