Temple of Ammon. THEBES (E. BANK). 24. Route. 253

its Vestibule still projects. 0n the rear of the S. tower (Pl. l) is a
long inscription (unfortunately imperfect at the top), recording the
gifts of Amenophis III. to the god Ammon; and on the rear of the
N. tower (Pl. m) are seen the last remnants of a larger represen-
tation of a festal voyage, in the shape of a sacred bark of Ammon
with the king on board and another fully manned ship.

0n passing through the third pylon into the Central Court,
we come ﬁrst upon an OBELISK, the last survivor of tour. erected in
pairs by Thutmosis I. It is 76 ft. high and stands upon a base 6 ft.
square On each face of the obelisk are three vertical inscriptions,
the central one being the dedicatory inscription of Thutmosis I.,
and the other two additions by Ramses IV. and Ramses VI. The
bases of the other obelisks are adjacent. The obelisks marked the
entrance to the temple in the reign of Thutmosis I.

A deviation may here be made to inspect the Historical Beliefs on the
exterior walls of the great hypostyle hall (comp. p. 251).

Next follows Pylon IV, in a most ruinous condition, beyond
which are the scanty remains of the First Colonnade, originally
embellished with columns and colossal statues of Osiris. Within
this colonnade rose the two great OBELISKS of Queen Makere, made
of ﬁne pink granite from Assuan, and covered at the apex with
electrum (a mixture of gold and silver). The Right Obelisk has been
overthrown, and the top has fallen some distance to the N. The
*Left Obelisk, still standing, is 971/2 ft. high and its diameter at
the base is 81/2 ft.; it is the tallest obelisk known, with the excep-
tion of that in the piazza in front of the Lateran at Rome, which is
105 ft. high. The inscriptions record that the obelisks were made
in 7 months. Originally there was only the customary single ver-
tical inscription on each face; but afterwards, on the upper parts
reliefs were added, showing Makere, Thutmosis I., and Thutmosis II.
sacriﬁcing to Ammon. The names and ﬁgures of Ammon were ob-
literated by Amenophis IV., but restored by Sethos ].

This Colonnade underwent various transformations under the 18th Dy-
nasty. When Thutmosis I. built it originally it had two rows with ﬁve
columns in each to the left, and two with six columns in each to the
right, supporting roofs. When Makere erected the obelisks in the 16th
year of her reign, the columns to the right and two pairs of those to the
left were removed. Thutmosis III. surrounded the obelisks with a sand-
stone structure which concealed more than half of them, and p0rtions of
which still remain. Finally under Amenophis II the right half of the colon-
nade was restored and six pairs of papyrus- c-olumns were erected, of
which, however, only the stumps are now left.

As we proceed towards the E., we pass the Fifth Pylon, also
erected by Thutmosis I., which forms the back-wall of the colonnade
just described, and enter'a Second Colonnade, another erection
of Thutmosis I. This colonnade had sixteen—sided columns but is
now much ruined. On each side of the central passage Thutmosis III.
constructed two chambers, with a granite gateway (restored by
Sethos I.) between. Beyond this gateway rises the Sixth Pylon,

