lvi AGRICULTURE.

emancipation of farming from its dependence upon the inundations
(comp. pp. 111, 335).

III. AGRICULTURAL SEASONS. (1) The Winter Crop, or ‘Esh-
Shitawi’, grown exclusively on the ‘Rai" land (p. IV), is sown im-
mediately after the subsidence of the inundation. In Upper Egypt
seed-time accordingly begins as early as the middle of October, in
Central Egypt (from Assiﬁt to Cairo) at the beginning of November,
and in the Delta about the end of December. The ground is seldom
prepared for sowing by the use of the plough. The seed is scattered
over the still soft and moist soil, and is then either pressed into it
by means of a wooden roller, beaten into it with pieces of wood, or
trodden in by oxen Jr. Throughout the whole country a period of four
months elapses between seed-time and the completion of the har-
vest. The winter-harvest is, therefore, over in Upper Egypt about the
middle of February, in Central Egypt about the middle of March,
and in the Delta towards the end of April. The principal crop
everywhere is wheat, next to which are barley, clover, and broad
beans (p. lvii).

(2) The Summer Crops (‘Es-Séﬁ’ or ‘El-Kédi’) occupy the period
from April to August; but many of the plants grown at this season
require a longer period of development, extending throughout the
whole of the autumn and even part of the winter. This is particul-
arly the case with the rice-crop, which is sown in May, but does
not attain maturity till the middle of November, and with the cot-
ton-plant, sown in April, and harvested in November or December.
A large quantity of cotton is also yielded by a second harvest from
the pruned plant in the month of August, in the second year of its
growth. The cultivation of tobacco has recently been forbidden in
Egypt, in the interest of the customs duties.

(3) The Autumn Season (‘En-Nabc‘rri’ or ‘Ed-Demiri’), as al-
ready stated, is the shortest season, extendiug to little more than
seventy days; and yet within this brief space the rich soil of

+ The AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS of the Egyptians are exceedingly
primitive and defective. The chief of these is the plough (milzrdt), the
form of which is precisely the same as it was 5000 years ago; and the
traveller will recognise it on many of the monuments and in the system
of hieroglyphics. It consists of a pole about 6ft. long, drawn by an ox,
buffalo, or other beast of burden, attached to it by means of a yoke,
while to the other end is fastened a piece of wood bent inwards at an
acute angle, and shod with a three-pronged piece of iron (listin). Con-
nected with the pole is the handle which is held by the fellah. These
rude and light ploughs penetrate but slightly into the ground. The
harrow is replaced in Egypt by a. roller provided with iron Spikes (kum-
fud, literally ‘hedgehog‘). The only tool used by the natives on their
ﬁelds, or in making embankments of earth, is a kind of hoe or shovel
(migrafeh). The process of reaping consists of cutting the grain with a
sickle (mingal), or simply uprooting it by hand. The adrag, 0r ‘threshing-
sledge”, consists of a kind of sledge resting on a roller provided with
sharp semi-circular pieces of irnn, and drawn by oxen or buffaloes. This
primitive machine, being driven over the wheat, peas, or lentils to be
threshed, crushes the stalks and ears and sets free the grain 01- seeds.

