KOROSKO. 32. Route. 365

76 M. Shﬁturmeh, a considerable village, situated among palms
on the S. bank. The Nile now bends to the 8., and the mountains
approach close to the E. bank, their steep slopes lending a peculiar
charm to the scenery.

811/2 M. Senkﬁri—Dakhlaniyeh (E. bank) and Mama (W. bank).

87M. Korosko (E. bank), with a post and telegraph ofﬁce, is
the chief place in the district of the same name, embracing the
N11e valley from Shaturmeh to Faras (p. 376). On the bank rises
a handsome mosque. The village is situated in a plain, bounded
by a semicircle of mountains, and it is the starting—point of the great
caravan-route to Abu Hammed (p. 382, 8-10 long days’ journey).
This road strikes direct across the desert, the chief resort of the
Ababdeh and Bisharin Beduins, avoiding the three upper cataracts,
and cutting oﬂ the windings of the Nile. During the Mahdist insur—
rrection Korosko was of considerable strategical importance and was
held by a strong garrison, now, however, the forts and barracks are
deserted. -— The traveller may ascend (1/2 hr.; steep and stony)
the hill of Awas el—Guwrdni, close to Korosko. On the summit is
the tomb of the saint to whom the hill owes its name, a frequented
pilgrim-resort. The view extends over the Nile valley as far as Derr.

33. From Korosko to Abu-Simbel.
56 M. Comp. the Map, 1). 349.

The E. bank of the Nile between Korosko and Ermenneh (p. 369)
is the most fertile portion of Nubia. The belt of cultivable land
along the river is comparatively broad; and it is irrigated by means
of water-weels (sakiyeh) of curious construction. —— A little beyond
Korosko the Nile valley trends to the N.W., so that the N. wind
which prevails in winter frequently retards the sailing—boats. On
the left bank rises a picturesque chain of hills. 0n the E. bank
lies Mica; on the W. bank is (3 M.) Abu Handal.

At a little distance from the W. bank, deeply sunk in the yellow
desert sand, lies (91/2 M.) the —

Temple of ‘Amada, which dates from the 18th Dyn. and was de-
dicated to Ré—Harmachis. Its erection and decoration were begun
under Thutmosis III. and Amenophis II., and completed under
Thutmosis IV. The ﬁgures of Ammon, which were defaced by
Amenophis IV., were restored by Sethos I. In Christian times the
temple was used as a church and the reliefs were covered with white-
wash, which has had the effect of preserving the original colouring,
as we see now that the whitewash has peeled oif.

We enter by a stone portal, which was originally ﬂanked by pylon-
towers of brick. On the right side of the doorway appears Thut-
mosis III., to the left, Amenophis II., with the god Ré—Harmachis.
0n the inside of the doorway is an inscription referring to a campaign
of Merenptah (p.1xxxiii) against the Ethiopians. Also in the doorway

