8.D?rel—Mcrl?neh. THEBES(\\'.BANK). 24.,Roule. 295

Proceeding farther into the valley, we reach a tomb with a wide
entrance from which there is a ﬁne view of Der el—Medineh and of
the fertile plains to the E., traversed by the Nile and bounded by
the distant Arabian mountains. In the foreground are seen Medinet
Habu, the Colossi of Memnon, and the Ramesseum, and on the
other side of the river the gigantic ruins of Karnak.

The hill of Kurnet Murrai, 1/2 M. to the SE. ofDér el-Medineh,
is occupied by a number of fellah huts. Scattered among these are
several tombs of the 18th Dyn., most of which are of little interest.
The only one that need be mentioned is the —

Tomb of Huyé, who was governor of Ethiopia under Tut-enkh-
Amon. The key is kept by the Inspector General at Medinet Habu
[to the SE).

ENTRANCE WALL. To the right (P1. a) appears the ceremonial in-
vestiture of Huye as governor of the Sudan, in presence of the king; his
friends congratulate Huyé. To the left (Pl. b) stands the deceased, with
bis male and female relatives behind him, and two Nile boats before
him, below is another row of people; farther
to the right is the governor of Ethiopia, with
rows of people bringing tribute. —— On the left
end-wall (Pl. c) appears the deceased, sacriﬁcing
to the jackal-headed Anubis on his left and to
Osiris on his right. —— 0n the rear-wall to the
left (Pl. d) is Huye, bearing the fan and crooked
staff, the symbols of bis dignity, and presenting d
to the king the tribute from Nubia, bronght' by c f
Nubian chiefs. Behind bim are large specimens, b 4, , a
including a Nubian landscape standing upon a l T '
table covered with panther-skins and cloths: in .
the centre is a conical hut, with dum-palms, giraffes, and negroes at tbe sides.
Higher up are red and blue gems in cnps, rings of gold, sacks of gold‘dust,
shields covered with golden plates and gay skins, footstools, chairs, benches,
and head-rests of ebony, a chariot, etc. Tbree rows of Nubian chiefs, dr_essed
(with a few exceptions) in the Egyptian style, are recelved by Huye and
Amenbotep in the king‘s name. In the top row, behind the chefs, their
princess, shaded by an umbrella, approaches in a chariot drawn by_oxen,
and is followed by chiefs wearing ostrich-feathers in t_be1r hair, whlch lS
plaited into a kind of hood (as is the custom to this day among. these
tribes). The procession is closed by a brown. and a.bla.ck Ethiopian
woman, with pendent breasts. The former carries a chlld 1n abasket on
her back, and each woman leads a nude boy behind her. _In the second
and third rows are Nubians bringing the produce of their country, in-
cluding gold, panther-skins, a giraffe, and. oxen. _Each ox has a. brown
and a black human hand most singularly ﬁxed on its hornsx More_t0 the
left are five rows of ships (the lower rows much damaged). Five Ethiopian
princes kneel upon the deck of the second boat. Cattle and other goods
are being brought to Egypt in the smaller vessels_below. ——. On the rear-
wall to the right (e) appears the king, with Huy‘i beforehxrn presenting
the Syrian tribute. Amenhotep, brother of Huye, 1s brlnglng p1eces.of
lapislazuli on a dish. By his right hand hangs a breastplate, set with
precious stones. The represcntations of the Syrian grandees approat‘hlng
the king, with their gifts, on the right, are unfortunately obliterated. ——
The sepulchral inscription, which should have occupied the right end-
Wall (P1. f), was never executed. On each s1de of the vacant space are
offerings to Huye. The rest is destroyed.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

