LOWER NUBIA. 351

consisted, as it does to-day, of a number of separate districts (e.g.
the land of Wewet). The present inhabitants of Nubia are more
faithful to their ancient manners and customs than the Egyptians.

History. Lower Nubia, whence the Egyptians drew their sup—
plies of incense, is mentioued in some of the earliest Egyptian in-
scriptions. Its relations with Egypt were still closer under the kings
of the 6th Dyn., who there enlisted negro mercenaries, while the
princes of Elephantine dispatched great trading expeditions to the
lands of the Upper Nile. But it was not until the period of the
12th Dyn. that the conquest of Nubia was undertaken and the bor-
ders of Egypt advanced to Semneh (p. 379). In order to guard the
newly acquired possessions against the attacks of the negroes a
chain of forts was erected in the rocky valley of Batn el—Hagar
(p. 378), with its numerous cataracts. between wadi Halfa and
Semneh. From this base the Pharaohs of the 18th Dyn. penetrated
still farther to the S. and made themselves masters of the land of
Kosh as far as Napata (p. 382), which then became the southernmost
city of the empire. The conquered regions were incorporated with
the southernmost department of Egypt proper, which began at El-Kab
(p. 311), and the whole of the great province thus formed was placed
under an ofﬁcial who bore the title of ‘Prince of Kosh and Governor
of the Southern Lands‘. Under the established rule of Egypt Nubia
rapidly prospered; new towns were founded, and beautiful temples,
little inferior in size and embellishment to those of the motherland,"
arose in profusion, especially on the W. bank of the Nile, Which
was safe from the attacks of the E. Beduins. Most of these temples
were dedicated to the great Egyptian gods, Ammon, Ré—Harmachis,
and Ptah; but in some of them other deities were also worshipped,
such as Isis and others of the Egyptian gods, the local Nubian god
Tetun, the deceased King Usertesen III., who united the roles of
ﬁrst conqueror and patron—saint of Nubia, and occasionally also the
reigning king and queen (pp. 360, 364, 370, 374). The temple—
inscriptions were composed in the Egyptian language and written
in the Egyptian character, and Egyptian became the ofﬁcial lan—
guage, although the great mass of the people adhered to their native
Nubian tongue.

Nubia continued to be a dependency of the Pharaohs until about
1100 BC. But when the power of Egypt waned under the 21 st Dyn.
(p. lxxxiii), Nubia shook off her allegiance and a native ETHlOPIAN
MONARCHY was established, with Napata as its capital. But the
civilization of this kingdom continued to be Egyptian; and its
monarchs, who were dependent on the priests, regarded themselves
as the true protectors of the Egyptian religion and ,as the legitimate
rulers of Egypt. In 775 B.C. the Ethiopian Piankht (p.1xrrx1v) tem—
porarily over‘ran all Egypt, and shortly afterwards an Ethloplan dy—
nasty (the 25th; p. lxxxiv) established itself ﬁrmly on the Egyptian
throne. But in little more than a century (about b64 B.C.) these

