240 Route 24. THEBES (E. BANK). 1. Temple

The exterior walls of the pylons are adorned with representations
referring to the campaign against the Hittites, which Ramses I].
carried on in Syria in the 5th year of his reign. The Beliefs en creux
have suffered severely from the hand of time and at several places
are almost obliterated. On the Right ( W.) Tower we see the life and
business of the Egyptian camp; to the left the king on his throne
holds a council of war with his princes, in the middle is the camp,
fortiﬁed by the shields of the soldiers arranged side by side, to the
right the king in his chariot dashes into the fray. The scenes on
the Left (E) Tower plunge us into the battle; the king in his chariot
dashes against his foes who have surrounded him, and launches his
arrows against them. The ﬁeld is covered with dead and wounded,. ,
while the Hittites ﬂee in wild confusion to the fortress of Kadesh,
whence fresh troops issue. Farther to the left Kadesh, girt with
water, appears, with the defenders on the battlements. Remote
from the battle-ﬁeld, to the extreme left, the prince of the Hittites
stands in his chariot, surrounded by his guards, and ‘fears before
his majesty’.

Below the reliefs on the W. tower is a long poetical description
of the battle of Kadesh, inscribed in vertical lines. This is now
generally.known as the ‘Epic of Pentawr’. It is continued 011' the E.
tower, where, however, the text is still partly concealed by rubbish.

On the front of each tower of the pylon are two large vertical
grooves for the reception of ﬂag—staffs, and above them are large
square apertures, which served both to receive the braces securing
the ﬂag—staffs and to admit light and air to the interior.

The portal between the towers is in a very ruinous condition.
The reliefs represent Ramses I]. in presence of the chief deities of
the temple. The carvings, in tolerably high relief, in the doorway
date from the reign of the Ethiopian king Shabako.

Beyond the principal pylon (though not accessible from this
side) lies the great Court of Ramses II. (Pl. A), which was entirely
surrounded by a double row of papyrus-Columns (74 in all), with
bud-capitals and smooth shafts. It measures 185 ft. in length and
167 ft. in breadth, but owing to the presence of a mosque (p. 238),
only the W. side has been laid bare. In the N.W. corner, adjoining
the W. tower of the pylon, lies an ancient Chapel (Pl. Th), built
by Thutmosis III. and restored by Ramses II. It is raised upon a
platform above the pavement of the court, and contains three
chambers, of which that in the centre was dedicated to Ammon,
that on the W. to Mut, and that on the E. to Khons. On the side
facing the court it had a small t'olonnade of four clustered papyrus-
columns in red granite.

The Walls of the court are covered with reliefs and inscriptions,
including sacriﬁcial scenes, hymns to the gods, representations of
conquered nations, etc., most of which date from the reign of Ram—
ses II. Specially interesting is a relief on the S.W. wall (Pl. Y),

