320 Route 28. GEBEL SILSILEH. From Edfu

interesting relief representing the Homage of an inferior king Entef
before King Neb-khm-ré Mentuhotep III., and before the king’s mother
l'oh. Behind Entef is an ofﬁcial named Kheti. On the same cliff-
l'ace, farther up in the valley, occur representations and inscriptions
from the Middle Empire and the beginning of the New Empire.

0n the W. bank to the S. of Shatt er-Regal are other rock-inscriptions
and quarries.

‘26 M. Gebel Silsileh (Mountain of the Chain; so called from a
chain that is said once to have blocked the passage of the river).
The hills on the two banks of the river approach so close together
here that they have justly been compared to the pillars of a gigantic
gateway. In very ancient times there were probably rapids at this
point (like those at Assuan), which were either impassable or nearly
so. They were thus regarded as the beginning of the Nile, and
even in later periods the Nile-god Hapi enjoyed special reverence
at Silsileh, where great festivals were held in his honour.

We turn ﬁrst to the N. from the landing—place. The wellvbeaten
track skirts the river, passing a number of small tomb—like recesses
and memorial tablets. Beyond the quarries we reach the ~—

*Rock Chapel (Speos), which was hewn in the rock under Harem-
heh, last king of the 18th Dyn., and in the following centuries was

 

 

embellished with inscriptions and reliefs of great artistic as well as
historical value in honour of kings and high ofﬁcials. In front are
ﬁve doorways, separated from each other by pillars (Pl. a-d) at vary-
ing distances, and crowned with the astragal and concave cornice.
We enter by the middle door, on the lintel of which are chiselled the
sun-disk and the name of Haremheb. The interior consists ofa broad
but narrow vaulted chamber (Pl. A), at the back of which is an oblong
room (Pl. B). All the walls are covered with carving and inscriptions.

0n the S. Wall (Pl.f) is a ﬁne relief of a goddess offering the breast

to King Haremheb, while Khnum stands behind her and Ammon-R'e'
behind the king. —- 0n the Rear Wall, at P1. 1, to our left as we. enter, is

