IIIEROGLYPHICS. Cix

Cursive Style, which is usually termed Hierutic Writing. In this
style the owl km, which in literary hieroglyphics still retained

the form x, degenerates into}, an outline scarcely recognizable

as that of an owl. In hieratic writing we possess literary works of
almost every kind except dramas. — Farther abbreviations and
amalgamations of letters developed another cursive style from the
hieratic, viz. the Demotic, which was the ordinary character em—
ployed in the Graeco—Roman period. The sign of the owl, for ex—
ample, was curtailed to D. This writing was chieﬂy used for
contracts, accounts, letters, and similar documents, whence it was
sometimes termed the Epistolographic, or ‘letter character’, by the
Greeks.

During the second century after Christ Egyptian magical formulae
were frequently written in Greek characters; and after the intro-
duction of Christianity it became the universal custom to write the
Egyptian translations of the Scriptures in the simpler Greek letters
instead of in the inconvenient hieroglyphics, which were at the
same time more difﬁcult to learn. But as the Greek alphabet was
not adequate to represent all the Egyptian sounds (eg. sh, 11th, etc.)
seven supplementary symbolsi' were borrowed from the demotic.
Thus arose the Coptic Writing of the Egyptian Christians.

The use of hieroglyphics extended beyond the borders of Egypt,
especially into Nubia, where they were employed in the temples
built by the Pharaohs. And even after the Nubian—Ethiopian
kingdom became independent of Egypt in the 8th cent. B.C.,
hieroglyphics still continued to be used there. At ﬁrst, however,
only inscriptions in the Egyptian language were thus written; some
time elapsed before hieroglyphics were adapted to the native lan-
guage, which was allied to the modern Nubian tongue. In the
course of this adaptation various formal modiﬁcations took place,
resulting in an Ethiopian Hieroglyphic System, which has not as
yet been fully deciphered. In the post-Christian era an Ethiopian
Cursive Style, apparently based on the demotic, was also developed.
This also has not yet been deciphered.

The following hints Will be of service to those who may try to
decipher any of the kings’ names with the aid of the lists given
above, consulting ﬁrst the list of phonetic symbols, then that of
the verbal symbols. The Egyptian kings frequently had several
names, all of which are enclosed within the cartouche. The name

proper is preceded by various titles, eggs” R“ (se’RE‘), ‘son

1' [g sh, q f, .5 kit, 2 h, a“ c', as 2', and the syllabic {- ti.

