of Gizeh. CAMPBELL’H TUMB. 5*. Route. 127

On the rock above is a memorial inscription of the quarry~master:
the master-builder in the temple ‘Ramses II. shines in the House of the
Great’ (Heliopolis) Mai, son of Bek~en-Amon, master-builder of Thebes“.

0n the B. side of the Pyramid are remains of the temple once
connected with it (p. 120). We follow the W. side of the Pyramid.
011 the rock to the right is another hieroglyphic inscription (Pl. f')
by the above-mentioned Mu'i, near which are several rock-tombs.
One of these (Pl. 9), that of Neb—em-yekhwet, nearly opposite the
S.W. angle of the Pyramid, has a ﬁne ceiling hewn in the rock in
imitation ofpalm-stems. (Visitors should beware of the tomb—shaft.)

Our route now leads towards the S.W. to the Third Pyramid
(p. 122). To the S. of it stand three small Pyramids, perhaps
belonging to relatives of King Menkewre.

We leave the remains of the-temple (p. 122) belonging to the
Third Pyramid on the left, and descend towards the E. by the ancient
road (p. 114), which is distinctly traceable. Here, on the left, is
another series of rock-tombs dating from the 4th and 5th Dynasties.
Among these is that of Tebelmé (P1. h; beware of the mummy-
shafts), with several chambers and recesses. On the wall of the
second chamber, to the right as we enter, is a representation of dancers
at the funeral (can Ele necessary).

In the valley before us. to the right, rises a projecting ridge of
rock containing tombs of no interest. Adjoining this rock, on the
left, are three sycamores and two date-palms, rising above an Arab—
ian burial-place. Still farther to the E. we observe the remains of
a wall (perhaps the ancient town-wall), with a gateway. To the left
of the trees rises a high mound of debris, consisting partly of the
natural rock and partly of masonry, and supposed to be the remains
of the Pyramid of King Tetf—RE, the successor of Mycen‘nos. Passing
through it, we come to other tombs on the left, also covered with
sand. Among these is the tomb of Wer—khewu (Pl. .1"), ajudge under
the 5th Dynasty.

We now proceed to the left (N) to Campbell’s Tomb, a family
tomb of the 26th Dyn., discovered by Col. Vyse in 1837, and named
by him after Col. Campbell, the British consul-general of Egypt at
that period. The upper part, the mastaba proper, has been entirely
destroyed, and the shaft (53 ft. deep), at the bottom of which is
a tomb-chamber vaulted with an arch having a span of11ft., isnow
uncovered. The sides of the shaft are separated from the surround—
ing rock by a trench, which is spanned by bridges of stone at only a
few points. The sarcophagus which lay in the tomb- chamber
contained the remains of the royal scribe Pe-Icop Wah-eb-rE-em—
yekhwet, a contemporary of King Apries. It is now covered with
sand, but one of the Beduins usually offers to descend and lay it
bare. Beside the sarcophagus lies a stone lid shaped like a mummy.
In niches in the S. and W. sides ofthe shaft are two other sarcophagi;
and a fourth sarcophagus found here is now in the British Museum.
All these sarcophagi had been opened and plundered.

