lxvi DOCTRINES 0F EL—ISLAM.

Magog will burst the barrier beyond which they were banished by
Alexander the Great. The end of all things will be ushered in by
the trumpet-blasts of the angel Asrafil ; the ﬁrst of these blasts will
kill every living being ; a second will awaken the dead. Then follows
the Judgment; the righteous cross to Paradise by a bridge of a
hair’s breadth, while the wicked fall from the bridge into the abyss
of hell. Some Muslims believe in a kind of limbo, like that of the
Hebrews and Greeks, while others maintain that the souls of the
dead proceed directly to the gates of Paradise. At the Judgment
every man is judged according to the books of the recording angels
(p. lxiv). The good have the book placed in their right hands,
but it is placed in the left hands of the Wicked, bound behind
their backs. The scales in which good and evil deeds are weighed
play an important part in deciding the soul’s fate, a detail which
gave rise to the subsequent doctrine of the efﬁcacy of works. This
doctrine is carried so far that works of supererogation are believed
to be placed to the credit of the believer. The dmmons and animals,
too, must be judged. Hell, as well as heaven, has different regions;
and there is also a purgatory, from which release is possible. Par-
adise is depicted by Mohammed, in consonance with his thoroughly
sensual character, as a place of entirely material delights.

The course of all events, including the salvation or perdition
of every individual, is, according to the Koran, absolutely predes-
tined; although several later sects have endeavoured to modify this
terrible doctrine. It is these views, however, which give rise to
the pride of the Muslims. By virtue of their faith they regard them-
selves as certainly elect, and they make no attempt to convert oth-
ers, as they have no power to alter the irrevocable decrees of God.

In the second place the Koran is considered to contain, not only a
standard of ethics, but also the foundation of a complete code oflaw.

The MORALITY of El-Islam was specially adapted by its founder
to the character of the Arabs. Of duties to one’s neighbour, charity
is the most highly praised7 and instances of its practice are not
unfrequent. Hospitality is much practised by the Beduins, and by
the peasantry also in those districts which are not overrun with
travellers. Frugality is another virtue of the Arabs, though too apt
with them to degenerate into avarice and cupidity. The law of debtor
and creditor is lenient. Lending money at interest is forbidden by
the Koran, but is nevertheless largely practised, the lowest rate
in Syria being 12 per cent. The prohibition against eating unclean
animals, such as swine, is older than El-Islam. It is impossible
to decide whether the prohibition of intoxicating drinks is due to
the prevalence of habits of over-indulgence, such as are depicted by
the poets before Mohammed’s time, or is based 011 sanitary consider-
ations. Wine, however, and-even brandy, are largely consumed by
the upper classes, especially among the Turks.

