1887.

1892.

1896.

1898.

 

HIS'U )RY. ciii

however, was mortally wounded at the latter engagement.
The British reached the Nile at Gubat, just above Mntem-
meh, on the evening of Jan. 19th, and on Jan. 24th a
small body of men under Sir Chas. Wilson set out for Khar-
trim in two steamboats which Gordon had sent to meet
them. Sir Charles reached Khartﬁm on the 28th, but
found that it had already fallen on the 26th, apparently
through treachery, and that Gordon had perished.

The project of reconquering the Egyptian Sudan from the
Mahdists was temporarily abandoned, and Wédi Halfa re-
mained the S. limit of the Khedive’s dominions (p. xxxi).
Though Suakin became the basis. of more or less desultory
operations against Osman Digna, the British devoted their

~ehief attention to developing and improving the administra-
tion of Egypt proper. Negotiations on the part of the Porte,
instigated by France and Russia, to bring the British oc—
cupation of Egypt'to a close, have hitherto proved fruitless.
A loan of 9,000,000l. was raised by the British for the
purpose of regulating the Egyptian ﬁnances. In 1887 a
convention with France established the unconditional neu—
trality of the Suez Canal.

The Khedive Tewﬁk died on January 7th,189‘2, and was
succeeded by his eldest son Abbas II. Hilmi (b. July 14th,
1874), whose accession was confirmed by a firman of the
Porte, dated March 26th, 1892. His independence of action
is controlled by the British plenipotentiary, Lord Cromer
(p. ‘25). In the spring of 1896 a British-Egyptian military
force under Sir Herbert Kitchener (now Lord Kitchener of
Khartﬁm) commenced operations against the Mahdists to
the S. of wadi Halfa. On Sept. 2nd, 1898, the Mahdist
army was defeated in a decisive engagement, and Omdur—
man, their capital, situated on the left bank of the Nile,
opposite Khartﬁm, was taken. Since then the Egyptian
Sudan, reunited to Egypt, has been under a special Anglo-
Egyptian administration (see p. 380), at the head of which
is a British Governor-General, who is also Sirdar of the
Egyptian army. Khartﬁm was rebuilt as the centre of
government.

