2. Karnuk. THEBES (E. BANK). 24. Route. 243

The Rearmost Rooms of the temple are of comparatively little in-
terest. From the Chamber of Alexander we may pass through Room S
(with 12 columns) to the Sanctuary (Pl. X), in which the sacred shrine
with the image of the god was preserved. A relief to the left of the en-
trance shows Atum and Horus conducting the king into the sanctuary.
The other reliefs represent the king in presence of Ammon. —— The small
Room V, which was probably a storeroom for votive-offerings, is now
accessible only from without the temple.

We now proceed to inspect the Pylon (p. 239). On the way thither
the traveller should not omit to cast a glance on the exterior W. walls
of the Court and Colonnade of Amenophis III. and the Court of Ram-
ses 11. (Pl. b, c, d). These walls were embellished by Ramses II. with
reliefs of scenes from his Asiatic campaigns.

A paved street, ﬂanked on both sides with ﬁgures of recumbent
rams, each with a small image 0f Amenophis III. in front of it, led
to the N. from this temple to the temple of Karnak. This street
corresponded to the present main street of Luxor, with the bazaar,
and numerous traces of it may be identiﬁed; e.g. beside the market
to the N. of the village (Pl. 0, 2) and beside the temple of Khons at
Karnak.

2. Karnak.

Guides and Donkeys, see p. 233. — The view from the ﬁrst pylon of
the Tem le of Ammon (p. 245) and the survey of the great Hypostyle
Hall (p. I549) are wonderfully effective by moonlight (but comp. p. 234).

The main street of Luxor is prolonged to the N. by an embanked
road, which we follow. To the left lies the new cemetery ofLuxor,
to the right extends a new embanked road leading to the Temple
of Mut. Farther on we reach the village of Kamak. On the way
we pass the pedestals of numerous Krio—Sphinxes, which also ﬂank
the old road to the Temple of Mut that diverges here. We follow
the main route, the W. Sphinx Avenue, to the Temple of Khons.

a. TEMPLE or KHONS AND SURROUNDING BUILDINGS.

A handsome Portal, erected by Euergetes I.,with a winged sun-disk
in the hollow cornice, forms the S.W. entrance to the temple-precincts
oi‘Karnak,which were enclosed by a brick-wall. The reliefs represent
Euergetes praying and sacriﬁcing to the Theban deities. Beyond
this portal another avenue of sphinxes, erected by Ramses XII., the
last of the Ramessides, brings us to the beautiful and interesting —

Temple of Khons. This temple was dedicated to the Theban
moon—god Khons, son of Ammon and Mut, and, like Ramses IlI.’s
temple to Ammon (p. 247), may be regarded as a characteristic
example of an Egyptian sanctuary under the New Empire. Ram-
ses III. reared the walls of this temple, but placed reliefs only in the
innermost chambers; the completion of the decoration was left for
his successors Ramses IV., Ramses XII., and the priest—king Herihor.

The entrance is formed by a large Pylon [P]. P), 104 ft. in
length, 33 ft. in breadth, and 60 ft. in height. Upon the front may
be seen the four vertical grooves, with the corresponding apertures
in the masonry, used in fastening the ﬂag-staffs. The reliefs on

16*

