Vi PREFACE.

The materials for the ﬁrst edition of the volume on Lower
Egypt Were mainly furnished in 1877 by Professor G. Ebers
of Leipsic. Among the contributions prepared for the
English version were those of the distinguished Egyptolo-
gist, Dr. Samuel Birch. The volume on Upper Egypt, orig-
inall published in 1891, was founded on material contributed
by rofessor Ebers and Professor J. deichen of Strassburg.
The present combined edition, like the preceding, has been
completely revised by Professor Georg Steindorﬂ' of Leipsic,
who devoted a journey to Egypt in 1900 mainly to this object.
The introductory articles bearing their names have also been
specially revised by Franz-Pasha and Dr. Georg Schweinfurth
of Cairo. For other important contributions the Editor is
obliged to Dr. Borchardt of Cairo, to Dr. Leigh Carmey of
Assuan, to Mr. Percy E. Newberry of London, to Dr. H. Scha‘fer
of Berlin, to Dr. H. Thiersch of Munich, to Prof. Moritz of
Cairo, and to Dr. J. David of Khartl‘lm.

The MAPS and PLANS have been the object of the Editor’s
special care, and all have been carefully revised by Prof.
Steindorﬁ', With the aid of the most recent publications and
of much valuable unpublished material, kindly placed at his
disposal by Prof. Loret of Lyons, M. G. Legraz'n of Cairo,
and others. To the present edition have been added entire-
ly new maps of the Fag/22m, of the Nile from Cairo to Assﬁan
(3 sheets; 1 : 500,000), and of the environs of Assv’éan; new
plans of Port Sa‘id, Luxor, etc.; and many new ground-plans.
The spelling of the names on the new maps follows the ofﬁ-
cial French system of transliteration adopted in the ‘Recense-
ment général de l’Egypte du 1 juin 1897’, published in 1898.
In all the maps and plans the North is at the top of the page,
except where there is an express indication to the contrary.

Ancient Egyptian names are transliterated on the system
indicated at p. CVi. Arabic names have been specially revised
by Professor Socin of Leipsic.

HOTELS, etc., see p. xviii. Hotels which cannot be ac-
curately characterized without exposing the Editor to the risk
of legal proceedings are left unmentioned.

To hotel-proprietors, tradesmen, and others the Editor
begs to intimate that a character for fair dealing and cour-
tesy towards travellers forms the sole passport to his com-
mendation, and that advertisements of every kind are strictly
excluded from his Handbooks. Hotel-keepers are also warned
against persons representing themselves as agents for Bae-
(leker’s Handbooks.

