lxxiv MOHAMMEDAN CUSTOMS.

by several musicians with hautbois and drums; these are fOUOWGd
by several married friends and relations of the bride in pairs, and
after these come a number of young girls. The bride is entirely con-
cealed by the clothing she wears, being usually enveloped from head
to foot in a cashmere shawl, and wearing on her head a small cap, or
crown, of pasteboard. The procession moves very slowly, and another
body of musicians brings up the rear. The shrieks of joy Whlch
women of the lower classes utter on the occurrence of any sensational
event are called zagha‘rit (sing. zaghrata). The bride is afterwards
conducted with the same formalities to the house of her husband.

The ceremonies observed at funerals are not less remarkable
than those which attend weddings If the death occurs in the morn-
ing, the funeral takes place the same day; but if in the evening,
it is postponed till next day. The body is washed and mourned
over by the family and the professional mourning women (neddc‘z-
behs); the ﬁlcih, or schoolmaster, reads several Sﬁrehs of the Koran
by its side; after this, it is wrapped in its winding sheet, placed
011 the bier, covered with a red or green cloth, and then carried
forth in solemn procession. The foremost persons in the cortege are
usually six or more poor, and generally blind, men, Who walk in
twos or threes at a slow pace, chanting the creed—‘There is no
God but God; Mohammed is the ambassador of God; God be gra-
cious to him aud preserve him!’ These are followed by several
Inale relatives of the deceased, and sometimes by a number of
dervishes with the ﬂags of their order, and then by three or more
schoolboys, one of whom carries a copy of the Koran, or of parts of
it, on a stand made of palm-branches, covered with a cloth. The
boys usually chant in a loud and shrill voice several passages from
the ‘Hashﬁyeh’, a poem describing the lastjudgment. The bier,
with the head of the deceased foremost, comes next, being borne
by three or four of his friends, who are relieved from time to time
by others. After the bier come the female relatives, with dishevel-
led hair, sobbing aloud, and frequently accompanied by professional
mourning women, whose business it is to extol the merits of the
deceased. If the deceased was the husband or father of the family,
one of the cries is: ‘0 thou camel of my house’, the camel being
the emblem of the bread-Winner of the household.

The body is ﬁrst carried into that mosque for whose patron
saints the relatives entertain the greatest veneration, and prayers
are there offered on its behalf. After the bier has been placed in
front of the tomb of the saint, and prayers and chants have again
been recited, the procession is formed anew and moves towards the
cemetery, Where the body is laid in the tomb in such a position
that its face is turned towards Mecca. Among the women are the
relatives and friends of the deceased, distinguished by a strip
[usually blue) of linen, cotton, or muslin bound round the head,
with the end hanging down behind. They usually also carry a blue

