UPPER EGYPT. 185

tea, mineral waters) must he brought from Ca'ro. Occasionally the station-
rnastcrs permit the travellers to go On by one of the numt rous goods trains,
and thus to save time.

Steamboats. The steamboat trafﬁc (11 the Nile is mostly in the
hands of Messrs. Thomas Cook & Son, whose vessels are in every vs ay
admirable. The best are the ‘tourist steamers’ Rameses (T9 lerths),
Rameses the Great (78 berths), and Rameses III. (70 berths), after
which rank the Prince Mohammed Ali (51 beiths), Prince Abbas
(4‘2 berths), and Tea-ﬁlo (42 berths). One of these starts every week
during the season, spending 20 days on the voyage to Assuén and
back. The fare is 50L, or for occupants of the few superior cabins,
specially adapted for invalids, 60!. These pricrs include provi-
sions (wine, etc., excepted), all necessary travelling expenses,
donkeys, English saddles for ladies, boats to c;oss the river, the
services of dragomans and guides, and bakshish to guides. The
donkey-boys, however, usually look for a small bakshish from the
traveller, who is also expected to bestow a gratuity upon the atten-
dants on board the steamer. Each traveller is entitl.d to ship
200tb3. of personal luggage; excess luggage is charged at the rate of
£1115 per 1001!». A physician is carried on each steamer, whose
services, if required, are paid for in addition to the fare. — Messrs.
Cook have also organized an EXPRESS STEAMER LERVICE bttween
Cairo and Assuén (14 days there and back). The names of the
steamers are Cleopatra, Nefertari, Amenarlas, and Hatasoo. The
ﬁrst three have 32 ﬁrst-class berths, the last 36; all ha\ e also exten—
sive accommodation for steerage-passengt-rs. The fare from Cairo
is 21!. to Assuan and back, including 3-4 days’ hotel accommoda-
tion at Assuan and Luxor. Incidental expenses for sight-seeing,
donkeys, guides, etc., are not included in these fares.

Detailed information as to all these steamers, as well as the daha-
biyehs mentioned on p. 187, will be found in Cook’s Programme, pub‘
lished annually, price 6d. post—free, and obtainable at any of Cook‘s
ofﬁces: London, Ludgate Circus; Alexandria, Place Méhémet Ali; Cairo,
Cook‘s Pavilion, next door to Shepheard‘s Hotel. Messrs. Cock 42 Son
have also agencies at all river—stations between Cairo and Assuan, as well
as at wadi Ijalfa and Khartﬁm, where rates at_d all information may be
obtained on application. — A deposit of 10!. must be paid on taking a
ticket at Cook‘s ofﬁces in Europe. Tickets are not transferable except
with Messrs. Cook‘s consent. If a traveller be prevented by exceptional
circumstances from joining the steamer for which he has booked he may
proceed wilh the follovt ing steamer if there is a berth free. After that,
however, the ticket becomes invalid, without any recour~e against Messrs.
Cook. Passengers who prefer to prt ceed by rail from Cairo for part of the
journey, are provided on request wilh a ﬁrst-class railway-ticket. —— Con-
signments of personal baggage, animals, and merchandise, for shipment
to all parts of Upper Egypt and the Sﬁdan, are received by the Forward-
ing Department of Messrs. Cook & Son.

Messrs. Henry Gaze Jr Son (London, 150 Queen Victoria Street;
Cairo, opposite Shepheard’s Hotel) are the agents for the ﬁne
steamers of the Anglo-American Nile Steamer 00., which afford
another excellent means of ascending the Nile. The steamers Puritan,

