352 LOWER NUBIA.

Ethi0pian Pharaohs were forced to give way before the Assyrians,
and their kingdom was restricted to Nubia, of which the N. border
then lay near Philae (Konosso, p. 344).

The Egyptian civilization gradually declined in Nubia. The
Egyptian hieroglyphic writing became corrupted and a native Ethio—
pian hieroglyphic and cursive character was developed (p. cix),
which, about the beginning of the Christian era, began to be used
for writing the native Nubian language even in ofﬁcial documents.
About 600 BC. the royal residence was transferred from Napata to
Meme (p. 381), which lay farther to the S. Comparatively full
information has come down to us concerning the earlier kings who
dwelt at Meroe. We know also of the unsuccessful campaign of the
army of Psammetikh 1. against Lower Nubia (about 590 13.0.) and
of the attempts of Cambyses (525 B.C.) to conquer EthioPia, which
were foiled mainly by the energetic Ethiopian King Nastesen.
After that an almost impenetrable veil falls over the history of the
country.

During the PTOLEMAIC AND ROMAN IMPERIAL EPOCHS the S.
boundary of Egypt was near Hierasykaminos (p. 363), and it was
occasionally pushed farther S. as far as Primis (p. 368). On the
other hand the Nubians sometimes succeeded in extending their
power as far N. as Philm, and perhaps even occupied part of Upper
Egypt. When the Romans ﬁrst came to Egypt Ethiopia was gov-
erned by a succession of queens named Candace. One of these
attacked the Roman province, but was repulsed by the Roman gov-
ernor Petronius in ‘23 B.C. The Ethiopian kingdom seems soon
afterwards to have fallen into disorder and to have split up into a
number of small principalities. About this time also, the Blem-
myes, a nomadic race of the E. desert, who had previously acknow-
ledged the suzerainty of Ethiopia, assumed an aggressive attitude.
Not content with harassing the N. parts of Upper Nubia, they also
carried their depredations into the Roman territory in 8. Egypt,
until ﬁnally the Romans gave way before them. Diocletian (about
300 A.D.) withdrew from Nubia altogether, retiring within the
bounds of Egypt proper, to the N. of Philae. The Blemmyes, how-
ever, in alliance with the Nubians, continued their attacks on Upper
Egypt; but in 451 A.D. they were defeated by Ma'rcz'amts, who con-
cluded a peace with them (p. 337).

Christianity established itself at Philae in the 4th cent., and
thence extended throughout Nubia, where the temples were con-
verted into churches. In 640 A.D. Egypt and the Upper Nile Valley
fell into the hands of the Mohammedans. rAmr (p. xciii) penetrated
as far as Dongola and imposed tribute upon Nubia, but no enduring
subjugation of the country was effected. Shams ed—Dola, brother
of Saladin, took possession of the fortress of Ibrim (p. 368) in
1173 and plundered the church—treasury; but Christianity yielded
to Islam very gradually, and a Christian kingdom lingered at Soba.

