180 Route 16‘. EL-LAHUN. Fayz‘tm.

the period of the Middle Empire by the richer inhabitants of Skelet-
Crocodilopolis. The older graves are much injured. but those of the Graeco-
Roman period are in good preservation, and have yielded numerous
mummies. In many cases these had portraits of the deceased pairted on
thin cedar boards or upon linen, placed upon the head. -— Of stiil greater
value are the portraits found at el—Rubaydt, 13 M. to the N.E. of Medinet
el-Fayﬁm, which were purchased and. brought to EurOpe by Theodor Graf.

The return to Medinet el—Fayﬁm may be made in 11/; hr. without
again touching Hawaret el—Malita", as follows: cross the Bohr Séla abOut
1/2 M. to the N.W. of the pyramid, then ride to the W., arid after crossing
the Bahr Beld Mot, proceed direct across the plain to Medineh.

A visit to the Pyramid of El-Lahun or Illahun (Egypt. Le-hdne,
1'.e. ‘mouth of the canal’, see p. 175) may be combined with the
above expedition. The pyramid may be reached from Hawaret el-
Makta‘ in 1, or from the Labyrinth in 11/2 hr. 5 otherwise we proceed
via the station of El-Lahﬁn on the light railway (p. 178). The
pyramid is constructed of Nile bricks, piled up upon a rocky nucleus
bearing a star-shaped framework of low walls built of massive lime-
stone blocks. It has recently been Opened by Fraser, and identiﬁed
as the tomb of Usertesen II. The remains of the ancient embank-
ments, once supposed to belong to Lake Moeris, date from the time
of the Khalifs. Those who are interested in hydraulic engineering
should inspect the entrance of the Bahr Yﬁsuf into the Fayﬁm.

About 1[2 M. to the E. of the pyramid of El-Lahﬁn Prof. Flinders Pe-
trie discovered a temple in 1889, and close beside it the ruins of the town
Hetep—Usertesen (“Contented is Usertesen‘), now called Kahan. The latter
was founded by Usertesen 11. (12th Dyn.) and had but a brief existence.
The lines of the streets and the site of the palace may still be traced,
and numerous domestic articles were found among the ruined houses.

Near Gm'ob, 11/2 M. to the W.S.W. of El-Lahun and close to the edge of

the desert, is another ruined town, which owed its origin to Thutmnsis 111.,
who built a temple there. Many of the inhabitants were foreigners.

From El-Lahﬁn we take the train back to Medinet el-Fayﬁm.

The Birket Karim and its Environs.

Travellers who restrict the'iaselves to the Bfrlcet Kai-an and Demeh may
accomplish their excursion by railway in one day if the trains suit, by
starting early and returning late. Otherwise a tent must be taken for
spending the night. Donkeys should be taken by train or sent on early
in the morning to Abuksa. Arrangements for crossing the lake by boat
must be made with the shékh of the ﬁshermen; the usual charge is 30 fr.
per day, with a bakshish for the rowers, of whom 6-8 should be stipulated
f0r to avoid delay. The assistance of the Mudir of Medineh (comp. p. 174)
in securing a boat is useful; otherwise the boats may be out ﬁshing. ——
Those who wish also to visit the temple at Kasr Karim and to extend the
expedition (say for 4 days) cannot dispense with a dragoman (p. 174). —— The
route from Medineh to the Birket l‘iarﬁn via ﬁenhal' is described on p. 178.

From Medinet el-Fayﬁm to Abuksa the train takes 11/3 hour.
Between the stations of Senaro and Ebshuai lie the ruins of an an-
cient town. Abulcsa is situated on a hill and commands a ﬁne survey
of the lake and the Libyan mountains. Near the station is a sugar-
factory (closed at present).

From Abuksa we ride to the N. along an embankment intersect—
ing the ﬁelds, and in 1/2 hr. reach the fell'ahin village of Kafr Abud,

