POST AND TELEGRAPH OFFICES. xix

In other towns the hotels are much inferior. The more remote
a place is from the ordinary track of European travellers, the poorer
the inns are according to European ideas; and houses bearing most
pretentious names are often nothing more than miserable inns.

(5). Post and Telegraph Ofﬁces.

The Egyptian Postal System (pp. 5, 26) is admirably organised,
not only in all the principal towns but also in the smaller towns of
the Delta and Upper Egypt. The ofﬁcials are civil and attentive.
The addresses of letters destined for Egypt should always be written
very distinctly (particularly the initial letters). They had better be
directed to the hotel at which the traveller intends to stay, or the
traveller may leave his local address at the Cairo Post Ofﬁce and
have his letters forwarded thence. On leaving for Upper Egypt
travellers should notify the postal authorities at Cairo, so that let-
ters may be punctually forwarded, passengers by the Nile steamers
may have their correspondence looked after by the steamboat com—
pany. — Registered Letters not addressed to a hotel are not delivered
to the addressee unless he gets a resident or the consular kavass
(p. xx) to testify to his identity; those addressed to a hotel are
delivered on presentation of the ofﬁcial notiﬁcation of their arrival,
bearing the stamp of the hotel. — The Postage for letters within
Egypt is 5 milliémes, to other countries in the Postal Union 10 mil—
liemes; foreign Post Cards, 4 milliémes. —— Parcels not exceeding
11 lbs. in weight may be sent to the countries of the Union for
9 piastres, and must be accompanied by two declarations (one in
French, one in the language of the country of destination). Parcels
not exceeding 3 lbs. may be sent from England via P. & 0. steamer
for 18., from 3 lbs. to 7lbs. 23., from 7 lbs. to 111bs.33.; via France
and Italy the rates are 28., 33., 4s. -—- Post Ofﬁce Orders are issued
in Great Britain for payment in Egypt at the following rates of com—
mission: for sums not exceeding 2l., 601.; 6L, 13.,- 10l., is. 601.

Telegraphs. There are two telegraph—systems in Egypt, the
Egyptian and the English. Messages within Egypt may be sent only
by the former, which has over 200 stations, of which about 30 are
open day and night. The tariff is 2pias. for 8 words or less, and
1/2pias. for each additional word. Telegrams may be sent in any
European language, except from the smaller stations, where Arabic
messages only are accepted. -—- Telegrams to Europe should be sent
by the English Eastern 00., via Malta. The following is the tariff
of the English telegraph: each word (not exceeding ten letters; if
longer, it is reckoned as two words) to Great Britain 83 mill.; to
North America 120-200 mill.; to Austria 73 mill., to France 74 mill.;
to Italy 65 mill., to Switzerland 69 mill.; to Germany 76 mill.; to
Russia 88 mill. — A telegram from Great Britain to Alexandria costs
13.741. per word; to other parts of Egypt is. 1041., 23., 2s. 301., or
28. 601.

b“:

