11 THE MODERN EGYPTIANS. COP“-

eavh other. The two distinct types have also been recognized in the
skeletons of the ancient mummies.

Few nations in the East embraced the Gospel more zealously
than the dwellers on the Nile. Accustomed as they had long been
to regard life as a pilgrimage to death, as a school of preparation for
another world, and weary of their motley and confused Pantheon
of divinities, whose self-seeking priesthood designedly disgulsed
the truth, they eagerly welcomed the simple doctrines of Christianity,
which appeared so well adapted to their condition and promised
them succour and redemption. Like Eutyches, they revered the
divine nature of the Saviour only, in which they held that every
human element was absorbed; and when the Council of Chalcedon
in 451 sanctioned the doctrine that Christ combined a human with
a divine nature, the Egyptians, with their characteristic tenacity
adhered to their old views, and formed a sect termed Eutychians, or
Monophysites , to which the Copts of the present day still belong.

The name of the Copts is an ethnical one, being simply an Arabic cor-
ruption of the Greek name of Egyptians. The theory is now exploded that
they derive their name from a certain itinerant preacher named Jacobus,
who according to Makrizi was termed El-Beradi‘i, or ‘blanket—bearer‘, from
the 01d horse-cloth worn by him when he went about preazhing. This
Jacobus promulgated the monophysite doctrine of Eutyches, which had
found its most zealous snpporter in Dioscurus, a bishop of Alexandria,
who was declared a heretic and banished after the Council of Chalcedon;
and his disciples were sometimes called Jacobites. If this name had ever
been abbreviated to Cobit or Cobt, it would probably have occurred
frequently in the writings of Monophysites; but there we ﬁnd no trace
of it. It is, on the other hand, quite intelligible that the word Copt,
though originally synonymous with Egyptian, should gradually have come
to denote a particular religious sect; for7 at the period when the valley
of the Nile was conquered by (Amr, the native Egyptians, who almost
exclusively held the monophysite creed, were chieﬂy distinguished by
their religion from their invaders, who brought a new religious system
from the East.

These Egyptian Christians strenuously opposed the resolutions of
the Council of Chalcedon, and thousands of them sacriﬁced their
lives or their welfare in the ﬁerce and sanguinary conﬂicts of the
6th century, the causes of which were imperfectly understood by
the great majority of the belligerents. The subtle dogmatic dif-
ferences which gave rise to these wars aroused such hatred among
these professors of the religion of love, that the defeated Monophys-
ites readily welcomed the invading armies of El-Islam, or perhaps
even invited them to their country.

After the conquest of Egypt by the Arabs (p. 32) the Copts were
at ﬁrst treated with lenity, (and were even appointed to the highest
government ofﬁces, but they were soon doomed to suffer persecutions
and privations of every description. These persecutions were mainly
due to their unbounded arrogance and their perpetual conspiracies
against their new masters, and their Mohammedan contemporaries
even attributed to them the disastrous conﬂagrations from which the
new capital of the country so frequently s‘uﬁ‘ered (p. 33). Their

