m Korosko. DAKKEH. 32. Route. 361

To the right and left lie two oblong chambers. At the back are
three chapels, the central and largest of which is the SANCTUARY
(Pl. D). On the walls of this chamber are reliefs. On the left wall
Ramses presents ﬂowers to the boat of Ptah, on the right wall, the
king before the boat of Harmachis. In the centre of the Sanctuary
is a pedestal, wrought out of the rock, for the sacred boat. At the
back is a recess with four seated ﬁgures, representing (from left
to right) Ptah, the deiﬁed Ramses, Ptah-Tatenen, and Hathor with
the cow’s head.

Above Girsheh the scenery relapses into monotony. -— 29 M.
Koshtamneh, a commune on both banks. On the E. bank rises the
Gebel Hayéti. On the W. bank is a brick-built fortress of the Middle
Empire, known to the natives as Kwri. Extensive sand-banks and
granite rocks interrupt the course of the river.

35 M. 'Aldlci, on the E. bank, and Dakkeh, on the W. bank.
Dakkeh is the ancient Egyptian Per-Selke{t), ‘House of Selket’, the
Greek Pselchis, near which the Roman general Petronius defeated
the Ethiopians in 23 A.D., on his campaign to Napata. We proceed
to the 8., through the miserable mud-huts of the village, and in a
few minutes reach the -—

Temple of Dakkeh, which has been much damaged within the
last few years. The present temple (comp. the Plan, p. 362) occu-
pies the site of an earlier shrine, probably of the New Empire, and
was dedicated to Thont of Pnubs , an Ethiopian town. By the
Greeks this god was called Paotnuphis. The most ancient part of
the building dates from the time of the Ethiopian king Ergamenes
(Pl. D) and his contemporary Philopator (Pl. 0). Euergetes II,
added a vestibule (Pl. B), and the temple received its ﬁnal form
under the Roman emperors by the addition of the Sanctuary (Pl. E)
and of the Pylon (Pl. A). The temple, situated in the desert, lies
with its main axis parallel to the river (Le. running N. and S.), con—
trary to the usual rule in Nubian temples. It stands upon a base
about 6 ft. in height, now completely exposed by the natives in the
course of their excavations for sebbakh (p. IV).

A broad path, still ﬂanked on either side by a single course of
blocks of masonry, leads to the well-preserved PYLON (Pl. A), which
stood in the outer girdle-wall and formed the entrance to the temple-
precincts. Each pylon-tower has a groove for a ﬂagstaff, and both
have a few isolated reliefs on the outside and numerous inscriptions,
chieﬂy Greek, though some, added by visitors to the temple, are
Demotic and Meroi'tic. Within the central gateway, on the left side,
is the king making offerings to Thout, Tefnut, and Hathor, while

Isis appears below.

The ASCENT OF THE PYLON is attractive. In each tower there is a
staircase, beginning in a guard-room at the foot and passing three other
rooms in the successive stories. 0n the platform at the top of the W.
tower are numerous inscriptions written by visitors and also carved re-

