160 Route 12. unlunu; AA.

54 M. Rds el-Khalig. —— Beyond [62 M.) Kafr Solimén the rail-
way runs to the 8.13. to Fdreskar (Farascour), the station being on
the left bank, the town on the right. We return to Kafr Soliman. —
711/2 M. Kafr el-Batﬂkh lies in a sandy plain, extending as far as
Lake Burlus, and covered in summer with crops of water-melons.
The railway—station of (76 M.) Damietta lies on the left bank of the
arm of the Nile (ferry in 5 min.; 3 pias.).

Damietta. — HGTEL DE FRANCE (kept by Anastasios Diakoyanm‘s, a
Greek), poor. — Post Ofﬁce and Egyptian Telegraph Ofﬁce.

Damietta, Arabic Dumydt, situated between the Da-mietta
branch of the Nile and Lake Menzaleh, about 4 M. from the sea,
contains 43,750 inhab. (few Europeans). Seen from the railway-
station, situated near the harbour, Damietta presents an imposing
appearance, with its lofty houses ﬂanking the river. The interior
of the town, however, by no means fulﬁls the traveller’s expecta-
tions. On every side lie ruinous old buildings and walls. The
harbour is considerable, but its entrance is much silted up. The
insigniﬁcant trade of the place is chieﬂy in the hands of native
merchants (Arabs and Levantines). The industries to which the
town was indebted for its former prosperity (see below) still exist
to some extent, and the traveller will ﬁnd it interesting to visit

one of the streets inhabited by the silk and cotton weavers.

Hrs'ronr. Little or nothing is known of the early history of Damietta.
During the Arabian era Damietta attained a great reputation on account
of the resistance it offered to the Crusaders; but the town of that period
stood farther to the N. than its modern successor (see below). In 1218 it
was besieged by King John of Jerusalem. With the aid of an ingenious
double boat, constructed and fortiﬁed in accordance with a design by
Oliverius, an engineer of Cologne, the Frisians, Germans, and others
of the besiegers succeeded after a ﬁght of twenty-ﬁve hours in capturing
the tower to which the chain stretched across the river was attached.
The snccess of the Christians was, however, considerably marred by the
interference of the ambitious, thongh energetic Pelagius Galvani, the
papal legate, and by the vigilance of the Egyptian prince Melik el-Kamil.
At length, after various vicissitudes, the Christians captured the place.
They obtained valuable spoil, sold the surviving townspeople as slaves,
and converted the mosques into churches, but in 1221 they were compelled
by a treaty to evacuate the town. In 1249, when Louis IX. landed neat
Damietta, it was abandoned by its inhabitants. Without striking a blow,
the Crusaders marched into the deserted streets of the fortress, but in the
course of the following year they were obliged to restore it to the Saracens
as part of the ransom of Louis IX., who had been taken prisoner at Mansﬁra
(p. 158). During the same year, by a resolution of the Emirs, the town
was destroyed, and re—erected on the E. bank of the river, farther to the S.
The new town soon became an important manufacturing and commer-
cial place. Its staple products were leather-wares, cloth, and essence of
sesame, for which it was famous, and its harbour was visited by ships 01
many different nations. By the construction of the Mahmﬁdiyeh Canal
Damietta lost most of its trade, and its decline was farther accelerated
by the foundation of the ports on the Suez Canal.

The principal Mosque is a huge, shapeless ediﬁce, the only
redeeming features of which are the 10fty minarets and the spacious
dome. All the houses of more stories than one are provided with
handsomely carved wooden jutties and lattice-work, which are in

