Feur‘zhin. THE MODERN EGYPTIANS. xxrvii

consisting generally of four low walls formed of crude bricks of
Nile mud, and thatched with a roof of durra straw, on which the
poultry roost. In the interior are a few mats, a sheepskin, several
baskets made of matting, a copper kettle, and a few earthenware
pots and wooden dishes. But the railway—traveller, passing through
the Delta for the ﬁrst time, must not suppose that the miserable,
ruinous huts that meet his eye are typical of all peasants’ dwellings
in Egypt. In Central and Upper Egypt he will obtain a much more
favourable impression. The fact is, that beneath an Egyptian sky,
houses are not of the same paramount importance as in more northern
regions, all that is wanted being shelter for the night. The day is
spent in the open air, on the court in front of the hut, shaded by
acacia trees, among whose branches the pigeons coo. Here the fellah
spends his leisure, chatting with his neighbours and spinning wool
from a spindle that he turns in his hand.

The poorer peasant’s mode of life is frugal in the extreme.
The staple of his food consists of a peculiar kind of bread made of
sorghum ﬂour in Upper Egypt, or of maize in the Delta, Wheaten
bread being eaten by the wealthier only. This poor kind of bread
often has a greenish colour, owing- to an admixture of ﬂour made from
anum Graecum (see below). Next in importance in’the bill of fare
are broad beans (fal). For supper, however, even the poorest cause a
hot repast to be prepared. This usually consists of a highly salted
sauce made of onions and butter, or in the poorer houses of onions
and linseed or sesame oil. Into this sauce, which in summer
acquires a gelatinous consistency by the addition of the universal
bamia (the capsular fruit of the Hibiscus) and various herbs, each
member of the family dips pieces of bread held in the ﬁngers.
Both in town and country, goats’, sheep’s, or buﬂ’aloes’ milk also
forms a daily article of food, but always in a sour condition or half
converted into cheese, and in very moderate quantities only. In
the height of summer the consumption of fruit of the cucumber
and pumpkin species, which the land yields in abundance, is
enormous. In spring large quantities of lettuce, radish-leaves, and
similar green vegetables are eaten; and the lower classes consume,
for medical purposes during the same season, considerable amounts
of anum Grzecum, a clover-like plant with a somewhat disagreeable
odour (p. lvii). In the month of Ramadan alone (p.1xxvi), when a
rigorous fast is observed during the day, and on the three days of
the great Beiram festival [Korban Beiram), eventhe poorest members
of the community indulge in meat, and it is customary to distribute
that rare luxury to beggars at these seasons.

The dress of the Egyptian peasant calls for little remark, espe-
eially as he usually works in the ﬁelds divested of everything. The
chief articles of his wardrobe at other times are an indigo-dyed cot—
ton shirt (Immig), a pair of short and wide cotton breeches, a kind
of cloak of brown, home-Spun goats’ wool (za'bat, 'abéyeh, or ‘abaj.

