276 Route 24, Thnmm (w. DANA). 4. Tombs

Nos. 22-25 lie in the West Valley of the Tombs of the Kings
(p. 278).

N08. 26-31 are insigniﬁcant.

No. 3?, probably a royal tomb of the 18th Dyn., has not yet been
fully explored.

No. 33, a small tomb with two empty rooms, reached by a ﬂight
of steps, was discovered by Loret.

*No. 34. The Tomb of Thutmosis III., discovered by Loret in
1899, lies in an abrupt and narrow rocky ravine, about 275 yds. to
the S. of the Tomb of Ramses Ill. The entrance, reached by a steep
ﬂight of steps, is closed by an iron door. A sloping corridor descends
hence to a staircase, with broad niches to the right and left, beyond
which another corridor leads to a rectangular shaft, about 20 ft. deep,
probably intended as a protection against grave-robbers but now
crossed by a hand-bridge. The ceiling is adorned with white stars
on a blue ground.

Farther on we enter a room borne by two unadorned pillars. The
ceiling is decorated with stars, and the walls bear the names of 741
different gods and daemons. — in the left corner of the rear-wall is
a staircase leading to the TOMB CHAMBER, with has the form of an
oval king’s ring. Two square pillars bear the ceiling, with its yellow
stars on a blue background. The walls are covered with excellently
preserved scenes and citations from the ‘Book of the Underworld’.
The representations on the pillars are of special interest. On one
face of the ﬁrst pillar stands a long religious inscription; on the
second face are Thutmosis III. and the Queen-Mother Isis in a
boat (at the top), the king suckled by Isis in the form of a tree
(below), and the king followed by his wives Meryt-Ré, Ah-sat,
Nebtkhrow, and the Princess Nofret-ere; on the third face are
damons. The second pillar has daemons and another long inscription.
The SARCOPHAGUS is of red sandstone, and its scenes and inscrip-
tions are in red paint; it was empty when the tomb was opened,
and the mummy of the king was found at Dér el-bahri (p. 283).
The objects found in the four small adjoining rooms are now in
Gizeh Museum (p. 103).

*No. 35. Tomb of Amenophis IL, discovered by Loret in 1898,
about 203 yds. to the W. of the Tomb of Ramses III. Part of its
contents has been left on the spot (comp. p. 101). From the entrance
steep ﬂights of steps and sloping corridors descend to a shaft (now
bridged), in the depth of which is the opening to a small chamber,
and on to a room, the walls and pillars of which are quite unadorned.
Here lies the mummy of a woman, on a boat bearing the name of
Amenophis 11. From the left rear-corner of this apartment a stair—
case descends to a sloping corridor and to a room borne by six
pillars. At the back of this is a kind of crypt. 0n the pillars Amen-
ophis 11. is represented before the gods of death. The blue ceiling
is dotted with yellow stars. The walls, painted yellow (probably in

