DENDﬁR. 32. Route. 359

Abu Tarfa (W. bank). About 1 M. to the S. is a rock-cave with
the tomb of a shékh. The low rapids here, caused by granite rocks
in the Nile, are known as the Bab Abu Hér.

121/2 M. Murwau (on both banks). At the village of Kuboshéb, on
the W. bank, are ancient quay-walls with a Nilometer and an un-
ﬁnished little cave-chapel. A little to the N. is a curious irriga-
tion arrangement hewn in the rock.

0n the W. bank, opposite the village of Dendz‘ir (E. bank), ap-
pears the small —

Temple of Dendﬁr, built by Augustus, and dedicated to various
gods, including Pete-ESE and Pé-Hor, the sons of Kuper, two local
deiﬁed heroes. The temple stands upon a platform, immediately at
the foot of the mountains, and is preceded by a broad terrace. Of the
PYLON, which formed the entrance to the temple, only the stone door-
way remains, the towers, probably built of brick, have disappeared.
At the top of the portal is the winged sun-disk, and within and
on the front (E.) and back (W.) is the Pharaoh sacriﬁcing to various
gods. Beyond the portal we enter an open COURT, which was orig-
inally enclosed by brick walls. The facade of the TEMPLE is adorned
With two columns with rich ﬂoral capitals, connected with the side-
walls by screen-walls. The temple comprizes a Vestibule and two
Smaller Chambers. The former is embellished with reliefs of the
Pharaoh in presence of the gods, which in the Christian period,
when the hall was used as a church, were covered with stucco, bear-
ing pictures of saints. The smaller rooms have no decoration. In
the rear-wall of the innermost is a shallow Recess, with representa-
tion of the local saints Pete-ese and Pé—Hor praying toIsis and Osiris.
In the top of this wall also is a deep crypt, which could be closed
by a large and a small stone. The N. and 8. Exterior Walls of the
temple are adorned with interesting reliefs. On the N. wall, to the
left of the door from the vestibule, appears the Pharaoh oliering a
piece of cloth to Pe-Hor, on the 3. wall, below, to the left of the
door, he sacriﬁces to Pete-ése, who is accompanied by a woman,

probably his Wife.

Among the various Inscriptions placed on the walls by visitors to the
temple, is one in Coptic, in which a certain Presbyter Abraham records
that he erected a cross here in the church at the command of the Nubian
King EispanomE. This appears within the S. side—deer of the vestibule.

Above the temple is a. small Rock Chapel, with a door showrng the
hollow cornice. In the cliﬂ's t0 the N. of the temple are some Quarries.
The stones lying in front of these are, perhaps, remains of ancient houses.

Beyond (181/2 M.) Meriyeh, a commune 011 both banks, the banks
of the Nile become ﬂatter and are partly cultivated.

23 M. Girsheh (E. bank), situated in a wide belt of cultivated
land, lies besides the ruins of the ancient Byzantine fortress of
Sébagara, which stretches up the hill from the river and is enclosed
by strong walls of masonry.

Opposite, on the W. bank, lie the village and —-

