lxxx HISTORY.

V. DYNASTY.
Egypt now reached the zenith of her civilization; art, in particular,
attained a perfection never again reached. The pyramids of the
kings are mostly near Abusir (p. 1‘29), where also special sanctuaries
were built for the sun—god Re (p. 1‘29).
Onnos (Unis), the last king of the 5th Dyn,, built his pyramid near
Sakkara (p. 134). After his death internal dissensions seem to
have broken out, resulting in the accession of a new dynasty.

VI. DYNASTY.
Under this dynasty the power of the kings was more limited, and
the small principalities recovered some of their independence. In
foreign affairs far-reaching commercial relations were entered into
with Central Africa, Punt [the S. coast of the Red Sea), Syria, etc.

Othoes (Tetz')

Phiops (Pepi I.) Builders of pyramids at
Methusuphis (Ment-em-saf—Meremé) Salskara.
Phiops (Pepi II.)

Towards the end of the 6th Dyn. the monarchy fell and civil
strife broke out. In the N. independent kings established them—
selves at Heracleopolis. others at Memphis (VII—X. Dynasties). In
the S. the chief power was seized by Theban princes (XI. Dynasty)7
named Entef and Mentuhotep, who gradually succeeded in reunit-
ing the whole country. Their small tombs lie near Drah Abu’l
Negga (p. 262). The ﬁrst ruler over reunited Egypt was Amen-
emhét I., with whom begins —

4. The Middle Empire (about 2200—1700 B.C.).
*XII. DYNASTY.
This was Egypt’s most prosperous period, and an epoch of great build-
ings. There is hardly a considerable town in Egypt Without some
traces of the building activity of the kings of this dynasty. Literature
and art also ﬂourished. The kingdom was organized as a feudal state.

Amenemhét I. restores peace; his tomb is the northern pyramid at
Lisht (p. 192).

Usertesen I. (more correctly Senwosret), builder of the southern
pyramid at Lisht (p. 199).

Amenemhét 11.; his tomb is the smaller stone pyramid at Dahshur
(p. 153 .

Usertesen11., builder of the pyramid of Illahun (p. 180).

Usertesen 111. (the Sesosm‘s of the Greeks) conquers Nubia. Pyr-
amid at Dahshﬁr (p. 153).

Amenemhét 111., builder 0f the pyramid and great temple (so-called
Labyrinth) at Hawara (p. 179).

Amenemhét 1V.

Sebek-nofru, a queen.

