40 Route 4. CAIRO. I. The Isma'iliyeh Quarler.

201/2 acres, and contain a variety of rare and beautiful trees and
shrubs. The open spaces, as in all Egyptian gardens, are planted
with the Lippia nodiﬂora, to supply the place of grass, which does
not thrive in this dry climate. An artiﬁcial hill with a belvedere
and a pretty grotto, to the right of the entrance opposite the Con-
tinental Hotel, commands the best view. Among the other attractions
of the place are several cafes, a summer-theatre (p. 30), a restaurant,
in the N.E. part of the garden, etc. An Egyptian band, which
generally performs European music, plays here daily from 5 to
about 8 pm. ; and a British military band plays on two evenings
a week in summer. The gardens afford a delightful promenade at
all periods of the day, and they present a very attractive appearance
by gas—light; but invalids should be careful to leave them before
sundown, after which the air here is very damp.

Adjoining the Ezbekiyeh on the N.E. is the small square of
Médan el—Khazneddr (Pl. 0, 3; Sliari'a Clot-Bey, see p. 63). The
narrow streets to the N.E. lead to one of the most disreputable
quarters of Cairo. — To the S.E. is the International Tribunal
(Tribunoux Mixtes; Pl. 0, 3), beyond which is the small ‘place’
named ‘A'rABEr EL—KHApRA, the chief point of intersection of the
electric tramways (p. 26), whence the Muski (p. 41) leads to the E. To
the S.W of the International Tribunal is the General Post Ofﬁce
(Pl. 0, 3; p. 26), and to the NW. of the latter, on the S. side of
the Ezbekiyeh, is the Opera House (p. 30). In the Place de l’Ope’ra
(Medan el-Teatro; Pl. B, C, 3), between the Opera House and the
Continental Hotel, is an Equestrian Statue of Ibrahim Pasha. Thence
the Shari'a ‘Abdin leads to the S. to the place known as Miami}:
‘ABDiN, on the E. side of which lies the Khedivial Palace (Palais
“Abdtn; Pl. 0, 4).

Westwards from the Ezbekiyeh and the Shari‘a ‘Abdin as far
as the Nile and the Isma‘iliyeh Canal extends the Quarter of
Isma‘iliyeh. The quarter was begun by the Khedive Isma'il (p. 0),
who desired to rival the modern quarters of Paris, and presented
sites here gratuitously to any one who would undertake to erect on
each a house worth at least 30,000 fr. within eighteen months. Most
of the houses are architecturally uninteresting, but there is a fair
sprinkling of handsome buildings. Several of the principal hotels
are situated in this quarter, also the English Church [P]. B, 3;
p. 30) and the German Protestant Church, the ministerial ofﬁces,
most of the consulates, and many palaces of Egyptian grandees,
with gardens enclosed by high walls, so that only the roofs arevisible
to passers-by. Beside the Great Nile Bridge (p. 75) is the huge bar-
rack of Kasr en-Nil (Pl. A, 4). Beyond this, at the corner of the
Shari‘a wabur el-Moya, is the handsome new building of the
Museum of Egyptian Antiquities (p. 78). Among the other modern
buildings in this neighbourhood are the French Archaeological In—
stitute, in the Shari'a Fum et- Teraah (ﬁne library), and the tasteful

