344 Route 29. BIGEH.

Roman imperial period, was never completed. Above the ﬂoral cap-
itals of the columns it was intended to add Hathor-capitals. Only
the end-walls are smoothed on the outside, the side-walls were left
rough—hewn. Within, two of the screen-walls between the columns
are embellished with reliefs: Trajan offering wine to Isis and to the
hawk-headed Horns, and Trajan before Osiris and lsis. The re-
maining screens are simply smoothed, except two which are still
rough-hewn. — A door on the E. side leads to a platform above the
river.

The rocky island of Bigeh (Egypt. Senmet), the goddess of which
was Hathor, is the most interesting of the Cataract Islands near
Philae. It is easily reached by small boat in a few minutes from
Philae, of which it commands a picturesque view. We land at
the ancient quay and ascend by an ancient staircase. In front of us
lie the remains of a Ptolemaic temple (Neos Dionysos), of which
part of the hypostyle hall is still standing, with its plant-columns
united by screen-walls. On the E. side is a. door, into which an apse
has been built. The ruins are now occupied by a Nubian hamlet.
Behind the temple (to the W.) is a headless seated statue of Am-
enophis II., and beside the temple is the fragment of a seated ﬁgure
of Thutmosis 111. There are numerous inscriptions on the island.

The island off the N. end of Philae, now called Konosso, was
formerly the S. limit of Egypt (see p. 3:50). It contains numerous
rock-inscriptions, some dating as far back as the Middle Empire.
On a massive double rock the cartouches of Psammetikh II. are
conspicuous.

30. Routes through the Eastern Desert.

The necessary Camels are obtained with the aid of one of the consular
agents. The Khabz‘r, or guide in charge of the caravan, is held respon-
sible for the safe conduct of the entire party, and expects implicit obed-
ience to his marching orders.

The desert-routes between the Nile and the Red Sea were im-
portant in antiquity for the trade with the seaports and the land of
Punt (p. 232) 011 the one side and the valuable quarries of green
breccia and several varieties of granite in the mountains of the
Arabian Desert on the other. Keneh (p. 225) is now the usual start-
ing-place of the caravans, but in antiquity it was Koplos LKuft;
p. 231). The most important harbours on the Red Sea, named from
N. to S. were Myos Hormos (now Abu Shar el-Kibli), Leukos Limen
LllOW Koséq‘), and Ber-mike.

FRUM KBNEH T0 ABU SHAB. EL- 'KIBLI, 5-6 days. The route leads
to the N. E. through the Wadi Fatireh (Mons Claudianus). the granite
quarries of which were worked chieﬂy in the reigns of Hadrian and
Trajan. The ltoman settlement of Hydreuma Trajanon or Fons
Trajanus lies about three days’journey from Keneh. Outside the walls

