6‘. Ramesseum. THEBES (W. BANK). 24. Route. 287

with bud-capitals. The latter [11 of which still stand) were lower
than the former, but upon them rose a wall, with window-openings,
to the height of the others. Each of the side—aisles had six couples
of columns with bud-capitals; six columns to the left are still erect.
Part of the roof of the central aisle still remains. On the smooth

shafts of the columns appears Ramses II. sacriﬁcing to the gods.

0n the S. Half of the E. Wall (Pl. a) the storming of the Hittite for-
tress of Zapur is shown in the lower row. To the left is the Pharaoh dash-
ing in 1118 chariot against the enemy, some of whom are slain, while the
rest, horse, foot, and chariots, betake themselves to ﬂight. To the right
is the fortress, defended by the Hittites, while the Egyptians are attack-
ing it on scaling-ladders, or push up to the walls under the protection of
storming-sheds and shields. The sons of the Pharaoh, the names of whom
are given, distinguish themselves in the battle. In the upper row are
several representations of the king sacriﬁcing to thc gods. — 0n the
W. Wall, in the lower row (Pl. b, 0), appear the sons of the Pharaoh, in
the upper row. above P1. 12, is the king before Ammon and Khons, with
the lion-headed Sekhmet Wert-hekew behind him, and above Pl. 0, the
king followed by a goddess, in presence of Ammon and Nut.

The First Small Hypostyle Hall, with four couples of papyrus-
bud columns, has a well-preserved roof decorated With astronomical

representations and scenes of the king before the gods.

The BELIEFS on the walls are not uninteresting. On the E. li’ull
(P1. 01, e) are priests bearing the sacred boats of Ammon. Nut, and Khons,
each decorated with the head of its god. On the N. W. Wall (Pl. f) the
king is seated beneath the sacred tree of Heliopolis, on the leaves of
which his names are being written by Atum (seated on a throne to the
left), the goddess Sefkhet-ebui, and II‘hout (to the right).

Of the following Second Small Hypostyle Hall only the N. half,
with four columns, remains. The sacriﬁcial representations here are
of little interest; at Pl. 9 the king is shown burning incense to
Ptah and the lion-headed Sekhmet. — The other rooms, adjoining

this to the W. and at the sides, are completely ruined.

Behind the Ramesseum, especially towards the N.W., are the remains
of a. number of extensive Brick Buildings, some of which were erected in
the time of Ramses II., as we learn from the stamps on the bricks. Among
the rest are some well-constructed vaults, originally covered by a plat-
form. From the fragments of wine-jars and the stoppers found here we
may reasonably conclude that these were storerooms in connection with
the temple. Adjacent is an altar, resembling that of Der el-bahri (p. 282).

About 500 paces to the N. of the Ramesseum we observe the remains
of an extensive wall built of Nile bricks. The name of Thulmosis II_I.
found here on many tiles renders it probable that a temple built by this
king or dedicated to him stood on this site. Between the Ramesseum
and this temple of Thutmosis lay the Mortuary Temples of Amertophis 11.
(18th Dyn.) and Si-Ptah (19th Dyn.), the scanty remains of which_were
discovered by Flinders Petrie in 1896. — Farther to the N.E. the remains of
the Mortuary Temple of Amenophis I. were discovered by Spiegelherg in
1896. — To the S. of the Ramesseum were similar temples of Prince Wazmes
(18th Dyn.), Thulmosis IV., Queen Tewosrel (wife of Si-Ptah, p. 279), and
King Merenplah (p. 267), all of which were explored by Flinders Petrie in 1896.

7. The Tombs of Shékh rAbd el-Kurna.

The Room; TOMBS or SHEKH ‘ABD EL-KURNA belong almost exclusively
to high dignitaries of the period of the 18th Dynasty. The maJorrty
consist of two parts: a Wide Vestibule, accessible from Without by a door,

