to Assiﬁl. GEB'ElI‘ET—TEB. 18. Route. 195

Thrice a month a camel-post leaves Maghﬁgha for (3-4 days) the ‘Small
Oasis’ of Ballriyeh, also called Oasis of Behnesa, because it is connected
with Behnesa by another desert-route (comp. p. 190).

The Nile-channel is very wide here (several islands); farther on
both banks are ﬂat. — At (113 M.) Sharona (Charounah; E. bank)
are tombs of the end of the 6th Dynasty. Near Kém el-Ahmar, to
the S., are the ruins of a large temple built by Ptolemy I., and
tombs of a late period, belonging to the town of Het—setem', in the
Cynopolitan nome. — 118 M. Bem' Mazar (W. bank) is a railway-
station (p. 189). — About 3 M. farther up, close to the E. bank, are
the insigniﬁcant remains of Shékh el-Fadhl, near which is Ha-
matha. The discovery of a large number of dog-mummies here
proves that we are standing on the site of the necropolis of 0mm—
polis, the ‘city of the dogs’. Several trough-like hollows and clefts
have been found here, some of which, in the rocks, are of con-
siderable size; but no inscriptions have been discovered. Cynopolis
itself, in which Anubis was worshipped and dogs were held sacred,
lay, according to Ptolemy, on an island in the Nile.

Opposite, 11/4 M. from the W. bank, lies El-Keis, the Egyptian
Kai's, which superseded Cynopolis. F'arther to the W., on the verge
of the Libyan desert, lies Behnesa (p. 189).

Near (1331/2 M.) Kolosaneh(Kolosna; rail. stat., p. 190), on the
W. bank, the Nile divides into three arms. forming two considerable
islands. Opposite (E. bank) lies Surariyeh (el-Seririeh). To the N.
and S. quarries are worked in the limestone rock. Among the
quarries is a small Rock Chapel, built under Merenptah and dedi-
cated to Hathor. On the external wall is Ramses III. between Hathor
and another deity.

On the W. bank lies the railway-station of Samallz‘tt (p. 190). A
little farther to the S., at the mouth of a side-valley on the E.
bank, rise the steep rocky sides of the Gebel et-Tér (‘bird-moun-
tain’), with an extensive ﬂat top bearing the Coptic convent Dér
el-Bukm, also known as Dér el-‘Adra (convent of the Virgin).
Visitors are drawn up a vertical cleft in the rock by means of a
Windlass (bum-a). The convent, which consists of a group of miser-
able huts, occupied not only by the monks but by laymen with
their wives and children, is surrounded by a wall of hewn stone,
erected in the Roman period. The foundation of the church is
ascribed to the Empress Helen; the sanctuary is hewn in the solid
rock and possesses a gate, now half-buried, adorned with Byzan-
tine ornamentation.

A legend, recorded by Makrizi, relates that on the saint”s day of the
convent all the bukir birds in the neighbourhood assembled here and thrust
their heads, one after the other. into the cleft of the rock until one died.

These birds are desoribed as being black and white, with a. black neck
ringed near the head. The convent is named also per ol—Bukir after them.

On the E. bank, about 1/2 hr. farther on and 1 M. from the river,
lies the village of Tehneh ep—Tahana (‘Tehneh of the mill’), with
two groups of ancient tombs.

13 *

