32 Route 4. CAIRO. History.

9870 Greeks, 5124 French, 6727 British (including a garrison of
3000 men), 2262 Austrians, and 487 Germans. The mass of the
population consists of Egypto—Arabian townspeople (p. xliv), Fella];
settlers (p. xxxvi), Berbers (p. xlv), Copts (p. xxxix), Turks (p. xlv),
and Jews (p. xlvii), the last of whom number 5800 souls. Besides the
natives and the European residents, the traveller will frequently
encounter negroes of various races, Northern Africans, Beduins,
Syrians, Persians, Indians, and other Oriental settlers.

HISTORY or CAIRO. At a very remote period a city lay on the
E. bank of the Nile, opposite the great pyramids, and was called by
the Egyptians Khere-ohe, or ‘place of combat’, because Horus and Set
were said to have contended here (p. cxx). The Greeks named it Bab-
ylon, probably in imitation of some Egyptian name of similar sound.
The citadel of this town (p. 71) was fortiﬁed by the Romans, and
under Augustus became the headquarters of one of the three legions
stationed in Egypt. In AD. 640 Babylon was captured by ‘Amr ilm

el-‘As, the general of Khalif ‘Omar, who subsequently established
the new capital of the country here, in Opposition to Alexandria
(p. 11), which was not so free from the disturbing Christian element.
A mosque was built on the site of the conqueror’s tent, and the
Arabic word for tent {Foamy became the name of the new city. The
latter gradually expanded towards the N., and was extended to the
NE. as far as the base of the citadel by Ahmed ilm Tuli‘m, who
erected the new quarter of el-Katd’i'. Alimed’s splendour-loving
son Khumdrﬁyeh embellished the town with lavish magniﬁcence.
The modern city of Cairo was founded by Géhar, the general of the
Fatimite Khal’z‘f Mui'zz, after the conquest of Egypt in 969 AD.
He erected a residence for the Khalif and barracks for the soldiers
commanded by him to the N. of el-Kata’i‘. At the hour when the
foundation of the walls was laid, the planet Mars, which the Arabs
call Kahir, or ‘the victorious’, crossed the meridian of the new city;
and Mui‘zz accordingly named the place Masr el—thira, or Kéhim.
Masr, the ancient Semitic name of Egypt, was also applied to Fostat,
the form Ma§r rel-“Attica (Old Cairo) being only introduced at a later
date for the sake of clearness. The new town extended rapidly.
Bricks were easily made of the Nile mud, the Mokattam hills aﬁorded
excellent stone, while the gigantic ruins of the ancient Memphis
on the opposite bank of the river were also used as a quarry. In
973 Mui‘zz took up his permanent residence in the new city of
Cairo. In 1166 the citadel which still commands the city was erected
by Saldhedd’z‘n Yﬁsufibn Eyyﬁb {Saladin} on the slope of the M0-
kattam hills; and the same sultan caused the wh01e town, together
with the citadel itself, to be enclosed by a wall, 29,000 ells in
length. Under his luxurious and extravagant successors Cairo was
greatly extended and magniﬁcently embellished. At that period,
however, Cairo was fearfully devastated by the plague, as it had
been on two former occasions (in 1067 and 1295), and was also

