Apia Tombs. SAKK'ARA. 9. Route. 135

adorned with religious inscriptions and containing a large and a
small sarcophagus; adjoining is a smaller chamber.

Beyond the Step Pyramid, as we continue on our way to Ma-
riette’s House, a striking view opens towards the N. In the fore-
ground lies the green valley of the Nile, bordered by palm—trees,
and framed on both sides with the yellowish—grey desert; and we
also observe the alabaster mosque of Mohammed 'Ali at Cairo. On
the left tower the three pyramids of Gizeh, and the three nearer
pyramids of Abusir. The path turns to the right beyond the next
heap of rubbish (N.W.), crosses the hollow, and soon reaches ——

Mariette’s House. Mariette, the famous French Egyptologist,
ﬁrst rose into notice by his discovery of the Apis Tombs in 1851 ;
and from 1858 till his death in 1881 was director of the ofﬁcial
excavations in Egypt. No charge is made for admission to the terrace,
but it is usual to give a fee of 21/2 pias. or more, according to the
number of the party, to the ‘Ghafirs’ who take charge of the house.
A guide to the tombs must be taken at Mariette’s House, as visitors
are not admitted to them unattended.

A trodden path leads from Mariette’s House, to the W., in a
few miu., to the **Apis Tombs, the subterranean part of the Egypt-

ian Serapeum, hewn in the rock.

Apis, the sacred bull of the god Ptah (p. 132), which was worshipped
in a special temple at Memphis, was after death embalmed like a hnman
being and interred with great pomp in the neeropolis of Memphis. As
early as the reign of Amenophis III., and probably still earlier, the Apis
tombs consisted of a subterranean tomb-chamber, reached by a sloping
shaft, over which a chapel was erected in honour of the bull. Under
Ramses II. a large common grave was prepared for the Apis bulls by
Prince Kha-em-weset; a subterranean gallery, over 100de. in length,
was hewn in the rock and ﬂanked with chambers, which were walled up
after receiving the wooden coffin containing the sacred remains. Psam-
metikh I. caused a similar gallery with side-vaults to be constructed at
right angles to the ﬁrst one. These vaults, which were added to at inter-
vals down to the Ptolemaie period, were much larger and more carefully
constructed than the previous series. They have an aggregate length of
about 380 yds. and are about 10 ft. in width and 171/2 ft. in height. Above
them rose a large temple for the cult of the dead god. — The ancient
Egyptians believed that like the soul of men (p. cxxiii) the spirit of the
deceased bull was united with Osiris, and became the “Osiris-Apia” (Egypt.
03er-hapé; Gr. Osorapis). He thus became a kind of god of the dead and
was called, like Osiris. ‘Lord of the western land”; pilgrims crowded to
the tomb to pay their devotions and to present votive offerings. The last
were usually small memorial tablets, which were inserted in the walls
of the subterranean galleries. The worship of the foreign god Serapz‘s or
Sampz‘s, introduced under Ptolemy 1., rapidly spread in Egypt, and it is
easy to understand how the new Sarapis was confounded with Osorapis
and worshipped along with the latter in the ancient temple in the neero-
polis of Memphis. The temple itself came to be commonly known as the
Serapeum or Sarapeum. Within the extensive chambers of the Serapeum
there was established a colony of hermits, who lived in the strictest se-
clusion in small cells, receiving even their food through narrow windows
or air-holes. There is no doubt that these were the prototypes of the
Christian monks and aseeties of a later period. — A second temple of
0sorapis, built by Nektanebos, once stood opposite the temple covering
the Apis tombs (W. of Mariette’s house). These temples were connected by

