Immdation. THE NILE. li

it rises again and attains its highest level (comp. p. 69). After
having begun to subside, it generally rises again for a short time,
sometimes regaining and even passing its ﬁrst culminating point.
At length it begins to subside steadily, and after a time the de—
crease becomes more and more rapid. In January, February, and
March the ﬁelds from which the water has receded gradually dry
up, and in April, May, and the ﬁrst few days of June the river is
at its lowest. When the river is low the water covers 7 ells (129/5 ft.)
of the Nilometer at Roda (p. 69); when it reaches 152/3 ells
(273/4 ft.) the inundation has attained the height most favourable
for agriculture at the present day.

Egypt is now no longer a vast lake during the inundation as
it formerly was, nor does the overﬂow of the ﬁelds take place in a
direct manner as is commonly supposed. In Upper Egypt the water
is conducted into a vast network of reservoirs and canals, and dis-
tributed as required, and special engineers are appointed for their
supervision. The whole of the cultivable land is divided into huge
basins (héd), in which the water introduced by the canals is main-
tained at a certain height until it has sufﬁciently saturated the soil
and deposited the requisite quantity of mud. After the water in the
river has subsided, that in the basins may either be discharged into
the river or into the canals, or it may be used for ﬁlling other ba—
sins lying at a lower level. During these operations many of the
villages are connected by means of embankments only, While others
can only be reached by boat, and the whole country presents a
very peculiar and picturesque appearance. With the help of the
great Barrage (p. 111), the Delta is irrigated all the year round by
means of a network of canals. The principal CANALS in Upper Egypt
are the Sohiig’iyeh (Souhagieh), which quits the river at Sohag (p. 191);
the Ibrahim’z‘yeh, which begins below Assiﬁt and ends to the N. of
Benisuéf; and the Ruhr Yusuf, which serves the Fayﬁm. In Lower
Egypt the chief canals are the Mahmadi‘yeh and Khatalbeh, in the
W. Delta; the Balu- Tim, the Balu- Shibi‘n, and Ear-Sahel, in the
Central Delta; the Tewfilciyeh, with its continuations the Man-
sar’z‘yeh and Babr es-Sughai/r, the Balu- Buhi‘yeh, the Bahr Mu‘izz,
and the Isma'i‘ti‘yeh Canal, in the E. Delta.

If the river and the system of canals connected with it are in
any way neglected the consequences are very disastrous, as was
notably the case during the latter part of the Byzantine supremacy
and under the disgraceful sway of the Mamelukes, when the fertile
soil ongypt yielded less than one-half of its average produce. The
mean difference between the highest and the lowest state of the
river is about ‘25 ft. at Cairo, 38 ft. at Thebes, and 49 ft. at Assuan.
Even in March and April the traveller will have an opportunity of
observing how powerful and rapid the ﬂow of the river still is,
although its fall from Assuan [by the ﬁrst cataract) to Cairo is
299 ft. only, or about seven inches per mile. The rapidity of the

d*

