of the Kings. THEBES (w. BANK). 24. Route. 267

sarcophagus, which stood in Room VII, has left traces on the ﬂoor. 0n
the walls are gods and ghosts. On the vaulted ceiling are two ﬁgures of
the goddess of the sky (representing the morning and evening sky), be-
neath whom are constellations, boats of the stars, etc.

Opposite, on the right side of the path, is No.7, the Tomb of
Ramses 1]., ﬁlled up with rubbish. This tomb was plundered in
antiquity. The mummy of Ramses II. was found in the shaft of
Der el-bahri (p. 278) and is now in Gizeh Museum (p. 80).

No. 8, the Tomb of Merenptah, lies in a side-gorge, a 1ittle.to
the right of the path.

Over the entrance are Isis and Nephthys worshipping the sun-disk» in
which are a scarabaeus and the rain-headed sun»god. Connrnon I. On the
Left Wall, at; P1. a, is an admirable relief, with
well-preserved colouring, of the king before
Harmachis. Farther on are three vertical lines . (,7
of hieroglyphics, containing the title of the
‘Book of the Praising of Re”. Adjoining is
the sun (with the ram-headed sun-god and a

.‘n
'1 El I W
scarabaeus) between aserpent acrocodile and #7 (.4. U a
two cow‘s ,heads (p. 271). At, P]. b is the be-
IV
77. ’_J
L J

 

 

 

ginning of the ‘Praising of Re‘. On the Right
Wall, at P1. c, is the continuation of the “Prais—
ing”. -— CORRIDOR II. To the right and left of
the Entrance are gates of the underworld (from
the ‘Book of the Portals’). On the Left Wall, at
the top of the recess P1. 01 and at fand g are 111
34 forms of the sun-god (p. 283), standing on
a staircase. Below is the text of the ‘Invo—
cation” (p. 263) and at f and g, the kneeling
Isis, with Anubis as a jackal above. On the 9
Right Wall (Pl. e and It) are cOrresponding re- f '
presentations; at h is Anubis as ajackal, with d 11 e

Nephtliys kneeling below. — Conmnort 111. On JJ

the Left Wall is the sun‘s voyage during the '1

4th hour of night, on the Right Wall, the jour- b c]

ne}7 during the 5th hour (p. 263). — ANTE-

ROOM IV. On the Left Entrance Wall and Left 1 I

Wall are the gods of the dead, Osiris, Amset, L J

Twemetf, Anubis, Khere-bakf, Isis, and Neith; x.

on the Right Entrance Wall and Right Wall

are Osiris, Hapi, Kebh-snewf, Horus, Neph-

thys, and Selket. On the rear-wall, to the left, is Anubis, to the right
Hor-En-metf, with the panther-skin and side-lock; before each are two
small genii of the dead on a stand. -— ROOM V. In a hollow in the ﬂoor
stands the sarcophagus. On the walls are scenes from the ‘Book of Por-
tals’ (p. 263). On the Rear Wall are representations of the king sacri—
ﬁcing to Ammon, to the right and left, above the descending passage P1. q,
Which is now ﬁlled with rubbish. On the two Pillars the king appears
before various gods. -— The adjoining ROOM VI is unﬁnished, only the
small Recess in the left wall being decorated with ﬁgures of gods.

*No. 9, the Tomb of Ramses VL, Neb-ma—re. This tomb was
named by the French Expedition La Tombs de la Me‘tempsycose,
and by British scholars, following the traditions of the Romans, the
Tomb ofMemnon, as Ramses VI. bore the same prmnomen as Ameno—
phis III. (p. lxxxii), who was called Memnon by the Greeks.

Coptic and Greek inscriptions are numerous in this tomb. The re-

resentations, of Which none are very interesting, are executed in an in.

erior style to those in the other tombs. The only noteworthy chamber
is the last, in which the sarcophagus stood. The walls and vaulted

