0f the Kings. THEFES‘rWTBANK). 24. Route. 273

the Pillars the king is shown before various deities. —- A narrow
flight of steps leads hence to ROOM VI, the decorations of which
have only been sketched out. On the Pillars the king stands in
front of various deities. 0n the Left Walls is the journey of the
sun during the 9th hour of night, from the 9th chapter of the
‘Book of that which is in the Underworld’.

Middle Row: The boat of the sun, preceded by twelve star-gods with
oars; three sacred animals (cow; ram; bird with a human head); a
mummy standing upright, the guardian-deity of the sacriﬁces. Top Row:
Twelve genu crouching upon curious stands, and twelve women. Bottom
Row (partly destroyed): Twelve ﬁery serpents; twelve men with sticks;
a mummy. .

0n the Rear Wall is the journey of the sun during the 10th

hour of night (from the 10th chapter of the above-mentioned book),
continued on part of the right wall.
. Middle Row: The boat of the sun, preceded by various deities, includ-
mg a hawk upon a two—headed serpent with four legs; four spirits, hav-
ing sun-disks in place of heads, carrying arrows; four spirits with lances,
and four wnh bows. Top Row: A god with a sceptre; scarabaeus rolling
the hieroglyph for ‘land‘ before it with its fore—legs; the patron-goddesses
of Upper and Lower Egypt seated beside two erect serpents, bearing the
sun-disk; two goddesses beside the hieroglyph for ‘god‘, upon which rests
the sun-disk; goddesses with lions” heads and human heads, etc. Bottom
Row (partly destroyed): H0rus leaning upon his staff watches twelve con-
demned souls swimming in various attitudes in the waters of the under-
world; four goddesses with serpents; head of Set upon a sceptre.

0n the Right Walls is the journey of the sun during the 11th

hour of night, from the 11th chapter of the above-mentioned book.

Middle Row.- Boat of the sun, preceded by twelve men with a serpent;
two serpents bearing on their backs the two Egyptian crowns, from
which heads project; four goddesses. Top Row.- Two-headed god; serpent
(the god Atum), with four legs and two wings, holding a god (the soul of
Atum) standing behind; the constellation of the ‘tortoise‘, in the shape of
a serpent on which a god sits; two-headed god; four goddesses, each
seated upon two serpents, etc. Lower Row. The condemned. The enemies
of the sun-god are being burned in curious furnaces, under the inspection
of the hawk-headed Horus (on the right); adjacent stand goddesses with
swords, breathing ﬂames; in the last furnaces, fonr corpses standing on
their heads; various deities.

We return to Room V, whence a ﬂight of 18 steps , to the left,
descends to CORRIDOR VII. To the left the king (ﬁgure destroyed)
is seated at the banquet-table, with a hawk hovering over him and a
priest with side-lock and panther-skin in front of him. The rest of
this corridor, which is 36 ft. in length, and CORRIDOR VIII, to which
a few steps descend, are decorated with texts and illustrations of the
ceremonies performed before the statue of the deceased, from the
‘Book of the Opening of the Mouth’ (p. 263). — ANTECHAMBER IX.
The king before Osiris, Isis, Harsiésis, Hathor, Anubis, and other
gods of the dead. — HALL X, whence an incline with steps at the
side leads to the mummy-shaft, consists of two portions — a front
portion with pillars, and a rear portion with a vaulted ceiling. We
ﬁrst examine the scenes in the former. 0n the Left Entrance Wall
is the journey of the sun in the ist region of the underworld (1st

BAEDEKER‘S Egypt. 51h Ed. 18

