FRUIT TREES. lix

quently seen by the wayside and in the villages. The Acacia
Farnesiana (futneh), With blossoms of delicious perfume. The
sycamore (gemméz), anciently considered sacred. The zizyphus. or
Christ’s thorn—tree (nebZt). Tamarisks (atl; not to be confounded
with tamarinds). The Parkinsonia (sésebdn, a name also applied
to the wild Sesbania shrub). Mulberry-trees (hit), in Lower Egypt
only. Carob-trees, or bread of St. John (kharrab).

Among the FRUIT TREES the most important is the date-palni
(Phoenix dactylifera; nakhleh; the date, balah; the rib of the leaf,
gerid; the leaf, lif; the points of the leaf, sa’af; the crown, gum-
mdr). The date-palms blossom in March and April. and the fruit
ripens in August and September. Fresh dates are rough in appear-
ance, blood—red or pale yellow in colour, and harsh and astringent
in taste. Like the medlar7 they become more palatable after fer-
mentation has set in. There are no fewer than twenty-seven kinds
of date commonly offered for sale. The largest attain a length of
three inches, and are called ibﬁmi, or sukkéti, as they come from
N. Nubia. The most delicately ﬂavoured are the dark-brown ones
from Alexandria, known as amhc‘tt, which are eaten fresh. The
value of the dates exported annually amounts to about one million
francs only, as they realise too high a price in the country itself to
remunerate the exporter. -— The dum-palm (Hyphaena thebaica)
occurs principally in Upper Egypt and Nubia. It may be seen on
the Nile above Belianeh (p. 224). It is a broad—leafed palm of
medium height, and its timber and bast are of considerable value.
The large nuts contain a soft and ﬁbrous pulp, which is edible and
has a sweetish taste; while various objects are made out of the
hard rind.

The vine thrives admirably in Egypt, and grapes ('0enab) abound
from July to September. Wine was extensively made from them
in ancient times, and this might still easily be done, were it not
that Egypt is already amply supplied with cheap and excellent
wines from every part of the Mediterranean. The vine blossoms in
March and April, like the palm, and the grapes ripen in June and
July. Oranges (burtultdn) are abundant and cheap (the harvest
beginning in September), and so also are mandarins and lemons
(the small and juicy fruit of the Citrus limonium); citrons and
cedros are of less frequent occurrence. Among other fruit—trees we
may also mention the pomegranate (rummc‘m), which is specially
cultivated for the beneﬁt of the Turks, who are very partial to it.
and which yields a handsome return. The common European fruits
also abound, but their ﬂavour is generally very inferior. Figs (tin)
are very common in summer.

The principal DECORATIVE PLANTS are roses (ward,- of which
the Rosa Damascena moschata and the sempervirens are specially
cultivated for the manufacture of otto of roses), oleanders of aston—
ishing height, carnations, and geraniums, all of which have been

