248 Route 24. THEBES (E. BANK). 2. Kamak:

‘jubilee’, as a sign that the king would yet celebrate manyjubilees. On
the W. wall of the court are representations of sacriﬁces and of a pro-
cession with standard-bearers. — The architraves bear ﬂorid dedicatory
inscriptions, recording that Ramses Ill. erected this monument in honour
of his father Ammon. —— A door in the left colonnade opens into the
Portico of the Bubastides (see below); and one in the right col unnade
(now built up) admitted to the S. colonnade of the great hall.

A door leads from the terrace at the back of this court into a
Hypostyle Hall, with eight columns with papyrus—bud capitals. Ad-
joining are three Chapels, dedicated respectively to Ammon (in the
middle), Mut (left), and Khons (right), and each containing re-
presentations of the king sacriﬁcing to the boat of the respective
god. Beside the chapel of Khons is another chamber, now much
dilapidated; on each side of the chapel of Ammon is a chamber;
and beside the chapel of Mut is a staircase.

From the court of the Temple of Ramses we proceed by the E.
door to the so-called Portico of the Bubastides, situated at the SE.
corner of the great court. This portico was embellished with reliefs
and inscriptions by the kings of the 22nd Dynasty.

The following reliefs may be particularized. To the left as we enter
(on the projecting wall), above: Ammon hands King Osorkon I. the
curved sword and the palm-branch (symbol of long life); below, Khnum
holds the hieroglyph f0r ‘life’ before the king; Hathor gives milk to the
king. Left (W.) Wall. Takelothis II. and his son Osorkon, the high—
priest of Ammon, holding an image of the goddess of truth, in presence
of Ammon. Below is a long inscription. To the right of the exit-door
is another long inscription (of the 12th year of Takelothis 11,), above
which two reliefs represent King Takelothis presenting a loaf of bread
to Ammon. Other reliefs represent Sheshonk 1. before Ammon.

We now pass through the rear door of this portico in order to
inspect the highly important Triumphal Monument of Sheshonk I.
(the Shishak of the Bible). This is on the outside of the S. tower
of the second pylon, and is easily found. It commemorates the
victory won by Shishak over Rehoboam, son of Solomon, King of
Judah. The large form of Ammon, wearing the double crown,
appears to the left, grasping in his right hand the sword of victory
and in his left cords binding ﬁve rows of captured towns in
Palestine, each of which is represented by a circular wall enclosing
its name, beneath the upper part of a fettered prisoner. The curved
noses, prominent cheek-bones, and pointed beards of the captives
clearly identify them as Semitic. Beneath Ammon appears the god-

dess of the Theban Home with the name of the nome upon her

333E
head. She holds a club, bow, and quiver, and leads ﬁve rows of
captives with cords. To the right Shishak is seen grasping a group
of cowering Semites by the hair and smiting them with his club.
The portrait of Shishak was left unﬁnished throughout.

The Biblical passages referring to the campaign are as follows : 1 Kings
xxv., 25—26: ‘And it came to pass in the fifth year of king Rehoboam, that
Shishak king of Egypt came up against Jerusalem: And he took away the
treasures of the house of the Lnrﬂ and the traaeurnn nf the king‘s 11011583

