of Cairo. MOISATTAM. 7. Route. 109

amids, gilded and reddened by the setting sun. At our feet are
the Citadel with the mosque of Mohammed “Ali, the old aqueduct
on the left, and the domes of Imam Shafe'i (p. 68). A still more
varied view is commanded by a steep projection to the S. of the
old mosque of Giyﬁshi, the foreground being especially picturesque,
while the horizon to the S. seems more open and tempts our fancy
to visit the wonders of Upper Egypt.

At the N. end of the plateau is an old Turkish fort, whence a
bridge descends to the Citadel. On the N.E. and higher part of the
Moliattam, separated from the Citadel by alarge quarry, is a memor-
ial stone, to the right, adjoining the summit, erected in 1874 by
the British party of scientiﬁc men who observed the transit of Venus
from this point. The projecting rock in front of this point com-
mands the most extensive panorama in the neighbourhood ofCairo,
and should certainly be visited if time permit. The S. (right) end
of these hills is skirted by the road to the. smaller Petriﬁed Forest,
which may be reached from this point in about 1 hr. (see p. 110).

The route back to the town skirts the Citadel on the S. and
leads via the Bdb el-Karﬁfeh and the Place Me’he‘met Ali (p. 51;
view from below of the mosque of Mohammed 'Ali).

3. Spring of Moses and the Petriﬁed Forest.

To the natives the Petriﬁed Forest is known as the ‘Great’ and the
little” Gebel el-Khashab. The scientiﬁc traveller will ﬁnd a visit to the
former extremely interesting. but most travellers will be satisﬁed with an
excursion to the latter, the outskirts of which may be reached in 11/2—2 hrs.
The expedition may be made in half—a-day on donkey-back. Carriages
require extra horses, and even then sometimes stick in the sand. — The
deviation to the so-called Spring of Moses adds rather less than an hour to
the expedition. — The donkey-boys are usually familiar with the route
to the Little Petriﬁed Forest, so that a. guide may be dispensed with;
but a visit to the Great‘, nea1 the Bir el- Fahmeh, can hardly be accom-
plished without the aid of a well- informed dragoman.

Leaving the Bab en-Nasr (p. 62), we turn to the right to the
Tombs of the Khalifs, pass between the Molgattam (p. 108) and the
‘Red Mountain’ (p. 77), and ascend to a desert valley, into which
the E. spurs of the Mokattam descend. After a ride of 1/4 hr., dur-
ing which an isolated hill of red and black sandstone resembling
the ‘Red Mountain’ is visible in the desert 011 0111' left, we cross a
deep, dry water-course. The path divides here. That to the right
leads to the Spring of Moses and the Little Petriﬁed Forest (see
p. 110), while that to the left is the route to the Great Petriﬁed

Forest and the Blr el- Fahmeh (p. 111).

About 100 paces t0 the right, at the foot of the mountain- slope behind
the tombs of the Khalifs, which we ascend on this side past some large
lime- kilns, is an interesting trace of the sea in the pliocene age. in the
shape of a rocky face of the nummulite plateau, 235 ft. above the present
sea— -level, thickly dotted over with holes made by boring shells.

Following the path to the right, we observe a yellowish hill at
the foot of the spurs of the Mokattam, and reach it in 1/4 hr. more.

