86 Route 6. ML'SEL'M 0F GiZEH. Ground Floor.

in the Fayﬁm (p. 179). 129. Lower part of a statue of the Hyksos
King Kheyan, found at Bubastis.

133—135, 137-139. Statues of kings with high cheek-bones,
folds about the mouth, and other peculiar and foreign facial charac-
teristics, and with hair and beards unlike those of Egyptians. These
were formerly regarded as Hyksos princes (p. lxxxi), but are now
attributed with greater probability to the end of the 12th Dynasty.

133. Group in grey granite, found at Tanis (p. 156).

Two water-deities are offering a god ﬁsh upon lotus-stems, while they
carry other ﬁshes and birds in nets. The name of Psusennes is engraved
on the front.

*134. Sphinx in black granite, from Tanis, the restored parts
recognisable by their darker hue.

An inscription on the right shoulder, afterwards el‘faced, mentions
Apcpi (Apophis), the Hyksos king. Merenptah and Ramses II. subsequently
caused their names to be inscribed on the base, and Psusennes engraved
his on the breast of the statue.

135. Head of a sphinx, with the name of Merenptah added at
a later date ; 137. Head of a king, from Medinet el-Fayﬁm(p.176);
138. Three heads, in grey granite; 139. Sphinx, in limestone, found
at El-Kab (p. 311).

140. Large limestone sarcophagus of Tagi, from Thebes. The
interior is adorned with well—preserved representations of articles
required by the deceased in the future life.

ROOM XVII. In the middle of the room are wooden cofﬁns of the
Middle Empire, including 142. Cofﬁn of Kheperkere with repre-
sentations of doors on the outside. Glass Case with boats of the sun
and sepulchral gifts, from Bersheh (p. 201).

Glass Case to the right of the stairs. Articles found in tombs
near the pyramids of Lisht: sticks, sceptres, weapons; entrail—vases
with lids in the shape of human heads; wooden statuette of a mall.

Beside the stairs: Wall-paintings from tombs of the 6th Dyn.,
at Dahshﬁr (p. 153). Painted pavements from the palace of Ameno-
phis IV. at Hawata (p. (210).

RooM XVIII. Portions ofpainted wooden cofﬁns, dating from the
Middle Empire.

RO0Ms XIX and XX. Wooden cofﬁns of the 11th and 12th Dyn.;
sacriﬁcial tablets, and numerous steles from Abydos.

ROOM XXI. *Nine colossal statues of Usertesen I., in ﬁne
limestone, found near the S. pyramid of Lisht (p. 192), of admirable
workmanship (eSpecially in the reliefs on the throne). —— *1354.
Outer and inner wooden cofﬁns of Mesehti, nomarch of Assiﬁt.

The mummy reclined on a bed in the inner coffin, but only its golden
mask is now left. Beside it are various articles for the use of the dead
in the future life: head-rests, mirror, sandals, bronze washing apparatus,
sticks, bow and arrows, etc. The ship (N0. 1339! in Room II. and the
soldiers (Nos. 1337?“ i“ ”Tawtﬂﬁ" ”‘i’ tomb also.

