ALEXANDRIAN ART. Clv

its monumental creations, of which scanty relics only are now extant,
Alexandrian sculpture was wonderfully proliﬁc in genre composi—
tions and decorative carvings. The extant sculptures may he easily
divided into three classes according to their style. The ﬁrst class
comprises the works of native artists affected by Greek inﬂuence,
who adhere in general to the traditional canon, but display a purer
taste in the treatment of the face and in the attitude and modelling
of the ﬁgure. Thus the colossal statue of a Macedonian king [said
to he Alexander 11.), which was found in the temple—precincts at
Karnak and is now iu the Museum of Gizeh, is executed, as regards
its general arrangement, in conformity with the ancient Egyptian
scheme of statues, While its face and hair are treated in a freer
manner. Two other specimens of this art are to be seen in the
vestibule to the innermost tomb—chamber in the great tomb at Kom
esh—Shukafa (p. 12); another is the colossal head of a Ptolemy,
treated in the Egyptian style (K. in Room V of the Museum at
Alexandria). The Egyptian sculptor of the portrait-statue of a native
scribe found at Alexandria (No. 294 in the Gizeh Museum, p. 90)
has gone still further. Not only has he ahandoned the crouching
posture traditional for such subjects, but he has also imitated as
closely as possihle the Greek style in the attitude, the shape of the
head, and the folds of the drapery; though at the same time the
stiffness of the position, and still more the pillar at the back with its
hieroglyphic inscription, clearly announce the origin of the artist.
A smaller group of statues and reliefs are apparently the works of
Greek immigrants, who brought with them, and practised unchanged,
an art acquired abroad, and mainly inspired by Athenian ideals.
Examples of this Alexandrian ‘Ideal Style’ are to be seen in the
splendid Head ofa Gaul in the Gizeh Museum (Room XL, No. 291),
which deviates considerably in style from the well—known realistic
Gauls’ heads of the Pergamenian school; a sepulchral Stele in the
same Museum (Room XL, No. 289); the ﬁne seated Statue ofHercu-
les in the vestibule of the Alexandrian Museum; the Head of
Hercules (Case J, Room XVI), and numerous other specimens in
the same museum. A curious weakening of this ideal style, due to
the neW material, appears in sculptures carved in limestone quarried
at Meks near Alexandria or in the shell—limestone of the Mokattam
hills near Cairo. The most interesting specimen of this is a group
of a mourning woman and child in the Alexandria Museum (0;
Room IV). The most important achievement of this school was the
ahove-mentioned colossus of Serapis in the Serapeum at Alexandria,
the work of a sculptor named Bryaxis, who seems to have heen an
immigrant from Caria; and this may still be reconstructed in its
details with the help of numerous larger or smaller copies. The
colossus represented the mysterious deity sitting on a throne, with
Cerberus by his side, and crowned with the corn-measure, the em-
blem of fruitfuluess. The grave countenance framed with ﬂowing

