eii

1883.

1884.

1885.

 

HISTOR l'.

mud Pasha formed a new ministry, the soul of which was
Arabi Bey, the energetic minister of war. This cabinet at
once proceeded, without receiving the consent of the Khe-
dive, to pass several measures intended to diminish the
European inﬂuence in the political and ﬁnancial admin-
istration of the country. The Khedive, to whom both
France and England had promised protection, declared that
he would offer a determined resistance to the measures of
the cabinet. At the end of May the British and French
ﬂeets made their appearance before Alexandria. In the
middle of June serious disturbances broke out in that
town, in the course of which many Europeans were killed,
while the others found refuge on board the ships. On
July 11th and 12th Alexandria was bombarded by the
British ﬂeet, and on Sept. 13th the fortiﬁed camp of Arabi
at Tell el—Kebir was stormed by a British force under Sir
Garnet Wolseley. Arabi and his associates were captured
and sent as exiles to Ceylon. Since these events British
inﬂuence has been paramount in Egypt. In the autumn
of 1883 a widespread rebellion broke out among the Nu-
bian tribes of the Sudan under the leadership of Moham-
med Ahmed, the so - called ‘Mahdi’ (p. lxv), which prov-
ed fatal to the Egyptian supremacy in the Sudan. An
Egyptian army of10,000 men under an Englishman named
Hicks Pasha was annihilated in Nov., 1883, by the Mahdi’s
forces, and a second expedition of 3500 regular troops of
the Egyptian army, led by Baker Pasha, was also completely
defeated at Tokar in February, 1884. On the 18th of the
same month General Gordon, who had been Governor
General of the Sudan in 1877-79, after a perilous ride
across the desert, entered Khartﬁm, which he had unter—
taken to save from the Mahdi; While on Mar. 1st and Mar.
13th the rebel tribes under the Mahdi’s lieutenant Osman
Digna were defeated at El-Teb and Tamanieb by the
British troops under Graham. The Mahdi himself, howev-
er, still maintained his position near Khartﬁm, and towards
the close of the year a second British expedition (of 7000
men) was sent out under Wolseley to rescue Gordon.
Wolseley selected the tedious and laborious Nile route for
this expedition in preference to the shorter but more dan—
gerous desert route from Suakin to Berber. An advanced
brigade under General Stewart was, however, sent on from
Korti at the beginning of 1885, which accomplished its
march across the Bayﬁda Desert (see Map, p. xxx] with
complete success, gaining severely contested victories over
large bodies of the Mahdi’s followers at Abft Klea (Jan.
17th) and at a point near Metemmeh (Jan. 19th). Stewart,

