xliv THE MODERN EGYPTIANS. Ton-n Arabs.

to be found nowhere except in their desert home, where to a great
extent they still retain the spirit of independence, the courage, and
the restlessness of their ancestors. As in the time of Herodotus, the
tent of the Beduin is still his home. Where it is pitched is a matter
of indifference to him, if only the pegs which secure it be ﬁrmly
driven into the earth, if it shelter his wife and child from the
burning sunshine and the chilly night-air, and if pasturage-ground
and a spring be within reach. At Ramleh on the coast, near
Alexandria, the traveller will have an opportunity of seeing a Whole
colony of the poorest class encamped in their tents, where they
live in the most frugal possible manner, with a few miserable goats
and the fowls which subsist on the rubbish in their neighbourhood.
Though professors of El-Islam, they are considerably less strict in
their observances than the fellahiu of the valley of the Nile, who
are themselves sufﬁciently lax, and above all they sadly neglect
the religious duty of cleanliness. They do not observe the practice
of praying ﬁve times a (lay, and they are as a rule but slightly ac-
quainted with the Koran. Relics of their old star-worship can still
be traced among their customs.

The traveller will occasionally observe Beduins in the bazaars
of the armourers and leather-merchants, and will be struck with
the proud and manly bearing of these bronzed children of the desert,
whose sharp, bearded features and steady gaze betoken ﬁrmness and
resolution. In Egypt the traveller need not fear their predatory
propensities.

(4). ARABIAN DWELLERS IN TOWNs. Those Arabs with whom the
traveller usually comes in contact in towns are shopkeepers, ofﬁcials,
servants, coachmen, and donkey-attendants, or perhaps these last
only, as most of the best shops are kept by Europeans, while in of-
ﬁcial and legal matters his intercourse with the natives is carried
on through the medium of his consul. These Arabs are generally
of a much more mixed origin than the fellahin. It thus happens
that the citizens of the Egyptian towns consist of persons of every
complexion from dark brown to White, with the features of the
worshippers of Osiris or the sharp proﬁle of the Beduins, and with
the slender ﬁgure of the fellah or the corpulence of the Turk.
Among the lower classes frequent intermarriage with negro—women
has darkened the complexion and thickened the features of their
offspring; while the higher ranks, being descended from white
slaves or Turkish mothers, more nearly resemble the European type.
As the inhabitants of the towns could n0t be SO mllch Oppressed by
their rulers as the peasantry, we ﬁnd that they BXhibit a more in-
dependent spirit, greater enterprise, and a more cheerful disposition
than the fellahin. At the same time they are not free from the
dreamy character peculiar to Orientals, nor from a tinge of the apathy
of fatalism; and their indolence contraSts strongly with the industry
of their European rivals in political, Scientiﬁc, artistic, and all

