xx CONSULATES.

(6). Public Safety. Consulates. Courts of Justice.

Public Safety. The authority of the Khedive is so well estab—
lished throughout the Whole of Egypt that travellers are as safe as
in Europe. Weapons for self-defence are an unnecessary encum—
hrance. —— Fowling-pieces may be purchased in Cairo or they may
be had for hire at the principal hotels. Sportsmen who bring their
own guns will ﬁnd it very troublesome to clear them at the custom—
house, and cartridges also are contraband (p. xv). Ammunition (in-
cluding Lefaucheux cartridges) may be bought in Cairo, but not
higher up, where only coarse gun-powder can be obtained.

Consulates. Consuls in the East enjoy the same privilege of
exterritoriality as ambassadors in other countries. On public occas-
ions they are attended by kavasses, or armed consular ofﬁcers. A
distinction is sometimes made between professional (‘consules
missi’) and commercial consuls; and there are consuls general (who
act also as political agents), consuls, vice-consuls, and consular
agents, possessing various degrees of authority. In all cases of em-
ergency the traveller should apply for advice to the nearest consul
of his country.

Courts of Justice. In place of the exclusive consular juris-
diction to which foreigners were formerly liable, a system of Mixed
Tribunals was established in 1876. The judges consist of natives
and foreigners (the latter generally appointed by the Khedive from
qualiﬁed ofﬁcials nominated by the Great Powers), who give their
verdicts in accordance with Egyptian law, founded on that ofFrance
and Italy. Cases in which the Khedive himself and the Egyptian
government are concerned are also tried before this tribunal, which
includes courts of ﬁrst and second instance. The courts of the ﬁrst
instance are at Cairo, Alexandria, and Mansﬁra, and there is a dele-
gation at Port Said. The appeal—court is at Alexandria. Lists of
qualiﬁed barristers are exhibited in the anterooms of the courts. —
Cases between natives, and all criminal cases, are tried by the Native
Courts, established in 1884. Courts of the ﬁrst instance are situated
at Cairo, Alexandria, Benisnéf, Assiﬁt, and Keneh, and also (with a
more limited jurisdiction) at Tanta and Mansura (Zahazik). The
appeal-court is at Cairo; about half the number of its judges are
Europeans. The procedure is based upon the Code Napole’ou.

(7). Intercourse with Orientals. Dragomans.

The average Oriental regards the European traveller as a Croesus,
and sometimes too as a madman, —— so unintelligible to him are
the objects and pleasures of travelling. He therefore looks upon him
as fair game, and feels justiﬁed in pressing upon him with a perpetual
demand for bakshish, which simply means ‘a gift”. Travellers are often
tempted to give for the sake of affording temporary pleasure at a triﬂing

