SAKKARA. 9. Route. 133

FROM Mir RAHiNEH (Memphis) 'ro SAKKARA. We ride towards the
W. from the statues of Ramses, leaving the village of Mit Rahineh
at a little distance to the right. 0n quitting the palm-grove we
obtain an attractive view; immediately to the right, shaded by
palm-trees and lebbeks, is the small House of Tigmn-Bey, a nephew
of Nubar Pasha. About 1 M. to the W. is anotherlong palm-grove
surrounding Sakkara and bordering the desert; beyond this, on the
yellow sand of the desert, rise eleven pyramids. The ﬁrst of these,
to the left, is the S. brick-pyramid, beyond which are the blunted
pyramid, the N. brick-pyramid, and the great pyramid, all belong-
ing to the group of Dahshﬁr (p. 153). Not far from these we next
perceive the Mastaba Fir‘aun, with the pyramid of Pepi 11.; then,
exactly above the houses of Sakkara, two pyramids, the lesser of
which is that of Pepi 1.; and, lastly, to the right, the pyramid of
Onnos, the great step-pyramid, and two smaller ones (to the right,
that of Teti). These last eight pyramids belong to the group of
Sakkara. — Having nearly reached (3/4 hr. from the statues of
Ramses) Salclcdm, we leave the village to the left, passing an open
space with a pond, turn towards the N., and skirt the palm-groves.
At the end of these, on the left, is abeautiful, shady sycamore,
close to a spring of good water.

A different route must be followed during the period of the inundation,
when the low ground between Mit Rahineh and Sakkara is under Water.
From the statues of Ramses we return to the (5 min.) end of the embank—
ment (see p. 131), which leads back to Bedrashén, and then turn to the
N., traverse the whole of the palm-grove, and ride through the brick
houses of ancient Memphis, until we reach another embankment which
winds across the plain towards the W., and is interrupted by a. bridge
with sluices. In 20 min. more we reach the margin of the desert beside
some brick ruins (marked ‘Remains of a house in crude brick” on the map)
where we join the above route.

The united two routes ascend to the plateau, and bring us in
sight of the vast **Necropolis of Sakkara, which extends about
41/3 M. in length from N. to 8., and 1/4-1 M. in width from E. to W.
It contains sepulchral monuments of every kind, dating both from
the ancient and the later empire. Loose heaps of light-coloured
sand mark the position of recent excavations. The whole of the
Necropolis has been repeatedly explored both by the Byzantines and
the Khalifs, as well as by modern explorers. The Arab name Salolct’ira
has probably arisen from the corruption of some earlier Egyptian
name connected with Sokar, the god of the dead of Memphis.

Two routes to Mariette’s House, which is 20 min. distant, are
shown on the map. That to the right passes several unimportant
pyramids, with the so-called Cemetery of the Cats, where numerous
mummies of cats and ibises were found, to the extreme right. No-
thingis to be seen here, as the tombs are now closed, being considered
dangerous. The whole of the soil of the Necropolis is indeed so
honeycombed with tombs that great caution should be used in tra-
versing it. — The route to the left, leading straight towards the Step

