HISTORY. lxx‘x'i

XIII. and XIV. DYNASTIES.

The monarchs of the 13th Dynasty, most of whom were named
Sebekhotep, maintained Egypt at the height of her power for some
time, but a period of decline afterwards set in. There is no period
of Egyptian history at Whit'h kings were more numerous, most of
them reigning but a short time. The South was probably ruled by
the descendants of the ancient Theban kings, while in the town of
Xo'is, in the W. Delta, another family raised themselves to power,
forming the 14th Dynasty.

5. Hyksos Period (ca. 1700-1575 B. 0.).
XV. and XVI. DYNASTIES.

Egypt was now conquered by a Semitic people, known as Hyksos,

i.e. ‘Shepherd Kings’ or, perhaps more correctly, ‘princes ot' the

Shosu’ or Syrian Bed uins. Few of their monuments have been pre-

served (statue of Kheyan, see p. 86); but it is evident that they
conformed to the ancient culture of Egypt.

6. The New Empire (1600-1100 B.C.).

Egypt became a great power during this period. At ﬁrst the culture of
the New Empire differed little from that of the Middle Empire, but
under Thutmosis III. political and social life as well as the art of Egypt
underwent a radical change, owing to the new relations with W. Ada.
The tribute paid by foreign states caused an enormous ﬂood of wealth
to pour into Egypt, and especially into Thebes, the capital. The earlier
buildings, that had fallen into disrepair, were now replaced by imposing
monuments, such as the temples at Karnak, Luxor, etc.

xvn. DYNASTY (ca. 1600—1545).

While the Hyksos kings maintained themselves in the N., the S.

was ruled by Theban princes, who were at ﬁrst vassals of the foreign

intruders. The tombs of these princes lie near Drah Abu’l Negga.

Sekenyen-Ré I., II., III. The mummy of one of these was found
at Dér el-bahri (p. 278).

Kemosé. His queen was perhaps Ahhotep, whose jewels are now in
the Museum at Gizeh (p. 83].

Amosis (Ahmosé, 1580-1555 B.C.) conquered Auaris, the chief fort-
ress of the Hyksos, and expelled the intruders from Egypt,
which was reunited under one soeptre.

Amenophis I. (Amenhotep, 1555-1545 B.C.). This king and his
mother Nefret-e‘rE were afterwards regarded as the patron-gods of
the Necropolis of Thebes.

*XVIII. DYNASTY (1545—1350 B.C.).

Thutmosis I. (Thutmosé, 1545-1515 BC.) re-conquered Nubia. His
tomb at Bibﬁn el-Mulﬁk (p. 277) was the ﬁrst royal rock-tomb
constructed under the Pharaohs. During his lifetime his children
fought for the succession.

BAEDEKEn‘s Whﬁi f

