Iii THE NILE.

stream, however, which averages 3 miles an hour, is not so serious
an impediment to the navigation as the frequent changes which
take place in the formation of its channel, sometimes occasioning
difﬁculties which the most careful of captains is unable to foresee.

This remarkable river has exercised a unique inﬂuence on the
history of civilisation. The necessity of controlling its course and
utilising its water taught the ancient Egyptians the art of river-
engineering and the kindred science of land-surveying, while in the
starry heavens they beheld the eternal calendar which regulated the
approach and the departure of the inundation, so that the river may
perhaps have given the ﬁrst impulse to the study of astronomy. As
the annual overﬂow of the water obliterated all landmarks, it was
necessary annually to measure the land anew, and to keep a register
of the area belonging to each proprietor; and above all it became
an important duty of the rulers of the people to impress them with
a strong sense of the sacredness of property. Every succeeding year,
however, there arose new disputes, and these showed the necessity
of establishing settled laws and enforcing judicial decisions. The
Nile thus led to the foundation of social, legal, and political order.

Subsequently, when the engineers and architects, in the service
of the state or in the cause of religion, erected those colossal struc-
tures with which we are about to become acquainted, it was the
Nile which materially facilitated the transport of their materials,
and enabled the builders of the pyramids and the other ancient
Egyptians to employ the granite of Assuan for the structures of
Memphis, and even for those of Tanis, on the coast of the Medi-
terranean. As the river, moreover, not only afforded a convenient
route for the transport of these building-materials, but also an ad-
mirable commercial highway, we ﬁnd that the Egyptians had acquired
considerable skill at a very early period in constructing vessels

with oars, masts, sails, and even cabins and other appliances.

From the earliest historical period down to the present time the
course of the Nile, from the cataracts down to its bifurcation to the north
of Cairo, has undergone very little change. This, however, is not the
case with its EMBOUCIIURES; for, while ancient writers mention seven
(the Pelusiac7 the Tanitic, the Mendesian, the Bucolic or Phatnitic, the
Sehennytic, the Bolbitinic, and the Canopic), there are now practically
two channels only through which the river is discharged into the sea.
These are the months at Rosetta (Rashidl and Damietta (Dumyat), situ-
ated near the middle of the Delta, while the Pelusiac and Canopic mouths7
the most important in ancient times7 lay at the extreme east and west
ends of the coast respectively.

Geological Notice. [1) EGYPT PROPER. On entering the harbour of
Alexandria the traveller Will observe the massive blocks of stone from
the quarries of Meks (p. 18) of Which the quays are constrncted. They con-
sist of recent tertiary, light-coloured, sandy limestone, composed chieﬂy of
innumerable broken fragments of conchylia7 a kind of rock which extends
far to the west of Alexandria, and pr0bably COHStitutes the greater part of
the lofty Cyrenaean plain. This rock supplies forms the building-stone
generally used at Alexandria, and is also employed in the harbour-struc-
tures of Port Ha‘id. ‘

