lxxxiv HISTORY.

lucrative dignity of high-priests of Thebes. Nubia recovered its in-
dependence; and the Egyptian dominion in Palestine terminated.

XXII. DYNASTY.

The kings of this dynasty were of Libyan origin. Their ancestors,
like the Mamelukes of later days, had come to Egypt as the leaders
of mercenary troops. Settling in the E. Delta, their power grew as
that of the monarchy declined. The royal residence under this
dynasty was Bubastis (p. 162:); Thebes steadily declined in import-
ance. Royal princes assumed the ofﬁce of high-priests of Ammon.

Sesonchis (Sheshcnk; the Shishak of the Bible) overthrew the Tan-
ites. 111 the 5th year of Rehoboam of Judah he captured Jerusa—
lem and plundered the Temple of Solomon (ca. 930 B. 0.). His
monument of victory, see p. 248.

Under his successors (Osorkon, Takelothis, Sheshonk, etc.) the throne
once more lost power, and the country was subdivided. into small
independent principalities. Among these are reckoned the mem-
bers of the —

XXIII. DYNASTY,

who reigned in Tanis, but of whom we know little. The
kings of Ethiopia, whose capital was Napata, made them-
selves masters of Upper Egypt.

4'75 B.C. Tefnakht, Prince of Sa'1's and Memphis, attempted to seize
the sovereignty of Lewer Egypt, but was defeated by Pian-
khi, King of Ethiopia, who captured Memphis. (For
Piankhi's monument of victory, see p. 87.)

*XXIV. DYNASTY.

Bokchoris (Belcemanf), son and successor of Tefnakht, se-
cured the sovereignty of Lower Egypt, while Upper Egypt
remained subject to the Ethiopians. Sabakon of Ethiopia,
son of Kashta, overthrew Bokchoris and burned him to
death. All Egypt fell into the hands of the Ethiopians.

*XXV. DYNASTY (ETHIOPIANS).

707-695. Sabakon (Shabako) assisted the smaller Syrian states (Hoshea
of Israel) against the Assyrians.

695-690. Sebichos (Shabataka).

690—065. Taharka. (the Tirhakah of the Bible) also assisted the princes
of Syria and Palestine against the Assyrians, but was
defeated in 670 by Esarhaddon, King of Assyria, and after
the capture of Memphis compelled to take refuge in Ethio—
pia. Both Upper and Lower Egypt became subject to the
Assyrians, the various local princes (such as Nekho of

 

