336 Route 29. PHIL/E. Environs

means of 180 sluices (140 below, each with an opening of 350 sq. ft.,
and 40 above, each with an opening of 175 sq. ft).

The plans for this dam, which will be the largest of the kind in the
world, were prepared hy Egyptian government ofﬁcials. under the direction
of Sir William Garstin, Undersecretary of State. The construction is
entrusted to Messrs. John Az'rd d; 00.. of Liverpool; the chief engineer was
Mr Maurice Fitzmaurz‘ce. The foundation—stone was laid on Feb. 2nd, 1899,
by the ane of Connaught, and the total cost in expected to exceed the
original estimate of 2,000 0001,. The reservoir-hasin shove the dam Will
have a cuhic capacity of 234300100 gallons. It has been calculated that
the gain to Egypt from this dam, through the irrigation of lands hitherto
beyond the reach of cultivation, will amount to 2,600,000l. per annum.
The works would have been still more extensive and the storage hasin
still deepcr had it not heen apparent that in that case the island of Philaa
would have heen placed under water. — At the W. end of the dam is a
navigation canal, with four locks, 260 ft. in length and 32 ft. in hreadth. —
Permission to inspect the works is usually readily granted on applic tion
to one of the chief engineers at Shella] or at one of the offices of works.

Upwards of 10,000 workmen are engaged on the work; most of
these are Arabs, but there are also many Italians and otherEuropeans.
An entire village has sprung up here, with woodenbarracks, canteens,
and shops for the workmen and houses for the ofﬁcials.

We now turn to the E. , passing a cemetery for Christian workmen,
and regain the desert-route at the tomb of a shékh, near the ancient
brick—wall. .

The village of Shellal (Challal), where both the railway and the
desert route end, lies on the E. bank of the Nile, opposite Philze.
The beautiful island, surrounded by clear smooth water and crowned
by its imposing temples and graceful kiosque, presents a striking
contrast to the rugged and barren rocky landscape that environs it.

The Island of Philae.

A comfortable ferry-boat plies to Philae from the E. bank (there and
back 5 pins; more is demanded at first).

Philae, the pearl of Egypt, is 500 yds. in length and 160 yds. in
breadth, and consists of a crystalline granite mixed with horn—
blende, beneath the alluvial deposits of the Nile. The modern name
is borrowed from the Greeks, and is derived from the ancient Egyp-
tian Pi—luk, or the ‘island of Lak’. The Copts called it Pilakh, i.e.
‘the corner”, and the Arabs used to call it Bilak. Now—a—days none
of these names are known to the natives, who call the island Kasr
or Gezh‘et Anas el— Wogdd, after the hero of one of the tales in the
Thousand and One Nights, which has its scene transferred to Philze
in the Egyptian version.

The hoatmen relate it as follows. ‘Once upon a time there was a
king, who had a handsome favourite named Anus el-Wogad, and a vizier,
whose daughter was named Zahr el- Ward, 2'.e. Flower of the Rose. The
two young people saw and fell in love with each other, and found oppor-
tunities of meeting secretly, until they were discovered through the im-
prudence of the maiden‘s attendant. The vizier was violently enraged
and, in order to secure his daughter from the farther pursuit of the
young man, despatched her to the island of Philae, where he caused her
to be imprisoned in a strong castle (the temnle of Isis) and closely

