of Cairo. PETRIFIED FOREST. 7. Route. 111

ascend over ridges to a plateau, stretching towards the W., and
bounded on either hand by hills. We hold somewhat to the right,
and soon reach a road, which ﬁnally passes through a rocky ravine
near the Giyﬁshi eminence (p. 108), the view from which (p. 109)
forms an admirable close to the day’s excursion. Thence to the city,
see p. 109.

A visit to the GREAT PETRIFIED FOREST near Bir el-Fahmeh (4 hrs.
to the E. of Cairo, and 21/2 hrs. beyond the Little Petriﬁed Forest) takes
a whole day, and is fatiguing, especially as the traveller has the sun in
his face both in going and returning. The route mentioned on p. 110 is
not recommended for the outward journey, as the point for which we
are bound, not being conspicuous, is liable to be missed. It is better to
leave Cairo by the Bab el-Kardfeh (Pl. G, 2), pass the Tombs of the Ma-
melukes (p. 68) and the goods—railway to Helwan, and, leaving the vil-
lage of Basatin on the right, ascend to the left by the Jewish Cemetery.
After reaching the top of the hill in the Wadi et-Tih (p. 110), we follow
the valley towards the E. for 11/4-11/2 hr. more. Above the gradual slopes
of the desert, about 11/4 M. to the left, we then perceive several reddish
hills and another of yellowish colour in front. Riding towards the latter,
we reach on its E. slopes the debris of the Bir el-Fahmeh (‘coal well”)
and remains of some walls, dating from the period (1840) when an un—
successful search for coal was made here. The hills of the desert to the
N., N.W., and W. of the Bit el—Fahmeh form the Great Petriﬁed Forest,
and are thickly strewn with trunks and fragments of fossil timber. Some
of the trunks which are exposed to view measure 65-100 ft. in length,
and are upwards of 3 ft. thick at the lower end. They are generally brown
and black, with a polished appearance, and frequently contain chalcedony.
A sand—hill, 1 2 hr. to the N. of Bir el—Fahmeh, to the base of which the
Forest exten s, affords a good survey of the district. To the N.W. are
the Mokattam, the ‘Red Mountain” (p. 77), the ‘Abbz‘tsiyeh, and the plain of
the Nile.

4. Barrage du Nil.

The BRANCH RAILWAY TO THE BARRAGE is traversed by four trains daily
from Cairo (15 M., in about 1 hr. ; fare 12 or 6 pias., return, 18 or 9 pias.).
The intermediate stations are Shubra and Katyab. Opposite the Barrage
station is a small restaurant, where luncheon may be obtained if reqnired.
Donkeys may be hired at the station. —— A narrow-gauge line, worked by
hand-power and also available for passengers, unites Barrage with the
station of El-Mendshz‘, on the West Nile Railway (p. 23). — Messrs. Cook
& Son arrange special excnrsions by steam-launch twice a week, or oftener
if required, to the Barrage (p. 31).

The object of the *Barrage du Nil, the largest weir in the
world (cornp. p. 335), is to keep the water of the Nile at the same
level in all seasons, so as to obviate the necessity for the old irrigation
machinery, with its great expenditure of labour; and to remove the
difﬁculties of navigation below this point, during the three months
when the Nile is at its lowest. Therwork was begun under Mo-
hammed ‘Ali, about 1835. Linant —Bey proposed to alter the course
of the river and to build a weir farther to the N., where the conﬁgu-
ration of the ground appeared more favourable; but his plan was
judge] too costly and was rejected in favour of one proposed by a
French engineer named Mougel-Bey. The cost of establishing found-
ations in the shifting soil of the Delta, however, far exceeded the
estimates; and, after all, the erection was found to be too insecure

