1866.

1867.

1873.

1879.

1879-1892.

1881.

1882.

 

HISTORY. ci

tablishnrent of schools, the reorganisation of the system
of justice (p.xx), and the like, he acted rather with an
eye to produce an impression in Europe than from real
concern for the needs of his subjects. As time went on he
succeeded in appropriating for his own use about one-
ﬁfth of the cultivable land of Egypt. In 1866, in con-
sideration of a large sum of money, he obtained the sanc-
tion of the Porte to a new order of succession based on the
law of primogeniture, and in 1867 he was raised to the
rank of Khedive, or Viceroy, having previously borne the
title of wéli, or governor of a province only. In 1873 the
Khedive obtained a new ﬁrm‘an conﬁrming and extending
his privileges (independence of administration and judi-
ciaries; right of concluding treaties with foreign countries;
right of coining money; right of borrowing money; per-
mission to increase his army and navy). The annual tribute
payable to the Porte was at the same time raised to 133,635
purses (about 681,538l.). The warlike successes of the
Khedive resulted in the extension of his dominions to
the borders of Abyssinia and, on the S., to the 2nd par-
allel of N. latitude. — The burden of the public debt had
now increased to upwards of 100 million pounds, one
loan after another having been negotiated. The Powers
brought such a pressure to bear on the Khedive that he
was compelled to resign his private and family estates to
the state and to accept a ministry under the presidency
of Nubar Pasha, with the portfolio ofpublic works entrust-
ed to M. Bligniéres and that of ﬁnance to Mr. Rivers
Wilson. This coalition, however, soon proved unworkable ;
and early in 1879 the whole cabinet was replaced by a na-
tive ministry under Sherif Pasha. The patience of the
Great Powers was now at an end; and on the initiative of
Germany they demanded from the Porte the deposition
of Isma'il, which accordingly took place on June 26th.

Isma'il was succeeded by his son Tewﬁk (pronounced Tevﬁk)

or Taufilg, under whom the government was carried on in
a more rational spirit. The debts were regulated, an inter-
national commission of liquidation was appointed, and
an extensive scheme of reform was undertaken. In Sept.,
1881, however, a military revolution broke out in Cairo,
which had for its objects the dismissal of the ministry, the
grant of a constitution, and above all the emancipation of
Egypt from European inﬂuences. The Khedive was besieged
in his palace and had to yield; he appointed Sherif presi-
dent of a new ministry and arranged for an election of
Notables, or representatives. As the latter espoused the
‘national’ cause, Sherif resigned in Feb., 1882, and Mah-

