cl xxii

min, who '?

é‘, éh, ésh, what?
mini, which ? (masc)
enhi, which ? (fern)
enhum, which '3 (1)1.)
elli, which?

old, this (masc)

d5, this (fem)
dél, these

kull, each, all

ka‘m, how much ?

ARABIC LANGUAGE.

heneh, here
hem‘zlc, there

dulcha, dukhauwa, that (mam) fe‘n, where? Whither?
dukhu, dukhuz‘ya, that (fern) min 8n, whence?
dukhamma, those

emta, when?
ma—sh '1‘, mush,
not.

+ This separable form is used with verbs, ma coming before and sh
after the verb; e. g, glamb, he has struck, ma glambsh, he has not struck,

but mush kebz‘r, not large,
has he struck?

melilc, a king

elmelik 1", the king

elmelik old, this king

melilc kebir, a great king

elmelilc elkebir or
melik elkebir

elmelilc Icebir, the king is great

melilc -H- elbildd or elme- the king of
his betc‘z"l"l"f‘ elbilad ithe country

melz‘lt betd‘ elbildd or me— a king ofthe
bile min mimic elbilc‘zd * country

elmelilc elkebir beté' elbildd, the great
king of the country

meld]: clbz‘ldd or elmill‘tk the kings of
beta' clbz‘lticl the cquntry

mimic kubc‘w *i“, great kings

s the great king

 

melz'ki or elmelik k'
betc‘z'i my ing
milz‘dcz' or elmili’lk . ‘

betﬁ'z‘ my kings

1- El is the deﬁnite article.

Sh is also an interrogative enclitic, e. g. glarabsh,

melz‘keh, a queen

elmelikeh 1", the queen
elmelikeh di, this queen
melz‘lceh Icebireh, a great queen

elmelilceh elkebtreh or the great
melilcet elkebtreh queen

elmelilceh Icebtreh, the queen is great
meliket ﬂ— elbilt‘zd or 61— the queen of

melikeh betaht elbiléd the country
melikeh betaht elbildd or melilceh min
melikc‘zt clbz‘ldd, a queen ofthe country
elmelilceh elkebfreh betaht elbildd, the

great queen of the country
melikdt elbildd or clme- the queens of

limit beta“ clbz‘ldd i the country

melikc‘zt kubdr, great queens
melilcetz' or elmelikeh

 

betahti my queen
melikati or elmelikdt
beta‘z‘ é my queens

Before words beginning with t, y, j, d,

dh, r, z, .9, sh, .5, g1, y, g, or n the l of the article is usually assimilated
with such initial consonant; e. g. etturgemdn, the dragoman, crrds, the
head, cshshurba, the soup (instead of el-turgemdn, el-rds, el-shm-ba).

-H- Melilc is here what is called in grammatical parlance a ‘statns con-
structus’, but has the same form as the ‘status absolntus‘, the grammat-

ical opposite of status constructus.

But in feminine nouns ending in eh

or a a diﬁ‘erence is made; e. g. melilceh is the status absolutus, but me-

Ziket the status constructus.

i'H' Lit. ‘the king, the property of the country’. Betd', betalrt, or betd'et,
and be“? are the forms used reSpectively hefore sing. masc. nouns, sing.
fem. nouns, and plural nouns, as illustrated above.

' Lit. ‘a king of the kings of the country‘.
"“ The plural of kebz‘r (fem. Icebireh), great, is Imbdw; but in the case

of nouns signifying things without life the fem. sing. of an adjective is
frequently used with the plural of the noun; e.g. ettell elkebireh, the great
hill, ettulﬂl elkebireh (instead of elluldl elkubdr), the great hills.

