History. THEBES. 24. Route. 237

(p. 203) affected Thebes but slightly. Its ruined temples were re-
built under Haremheb, Sethos I., and Ramses II., and the wealth of
the god became greater than ever. An idea of the endowments of
the temple of Ammon may be gleaned from the fact that 3/4 of the
gifts lavished by Ramses III. upon the godsrof Egypt fell to the share
of Ammon, so that, for example, of 113,433 slaves, no fewer than
86,486 were presented to the Theban deity. Under these circum-
stances it was natural that the arch-priests of Ammon should grad-
ually grow to regard themselves as the chief persons in the state;
and they ﬁnally succeeded in usurping the throne and in uniting
for a time the royal title with the priestly ofﬁce. But the sun of
Thebes began to set when the royal residence was transferred to
the Delta under the princes of the 21st Dynasty. In the 7th cent.
B.C. the armies of the Assyrians penetrated as far as Thebes and
plundered it; the Ethiopians planted their rule here and honoured
Ammon with buildings and inscriptions; the princes of the 26th
Dyn. did for Sa'is what the princes of the 18th and 19th Dyn. had
done for the city ofAmmon, but they also paid their homage to the
great god of Thebes by erecting smaller buildings there. The in-
vading army of Cambyses ascended as far as Upper Egypt, but seems
to have done little or no damage at Thebes. Nektanebes, one of
the native Egyptian princes who maintained themselves against the
Persians, found time and means to add a handsome pylon to the
temple of Ammon. Alexander the Great and the princes of the
house of the Lagidae probably found Thebes still a great though
decadent city, and they assisted to embellish it, as many buildings
dating from the period of the Ptolemies still attest. The town of
Ptolema'is (p. 217), founded and endowed with many privileges by
Ptolemy 1., soon became the capital of Upper Egypt, and rapidly
proved a dangerous rival to the ancient metropolis. For a brief
interval Thebes, though politically and economically weakened, re-
covered its independence under native princes, by putting itself
at the head of the revolt in Upper Egypt against the Macedonian
domination under Epiphanes. But the rebellion was speedily
crushed and Thebes once more reduced to the rank of a provincial
town. Its decline steadily continued and the great city gradually
became a mere congeries of villages. I‘nder Ptolemy X. Soter II.
it again rebelled, but after a siege of three years was captured and
destroyed. In spite of its evil fate it once more revolted, taking
part in the Upper Egyptian insurrection in 30-29 B.C. against the
oppressive taxation of the Romans. Cornelius Gallus, the prefect
(p. no)7 overthrew the rebels and utterly destroyed the ancient town.
Thenceforward Thebes is only mentioned as a goal of inquisitive
travellers, who under the Roman emperors were attracted to the Nile
by two monuments in particular — the pyramids and the musical
colossus of Memnon on the W. bank at Thebes.

The introduction of Christianity and the edicts of Theodosius

