lxxvi RELIGIOUS FESTIVALS.

of the Koran The p1ocession usually enters the city by the Bdb en- -Na§7-
(p. 62). ln 11/2-2 hrs. it reaches the Ruméleh (p. 51), the large open
space in front of the citadel, from which last twelve cannon- -shots are
ﬁred as a salute. The cortége then sweeps round the Rumeleh, and ﬁn-
ally enters the citadel by the Bab el- Wezir (Pl. E 2). The departure of
the pilgrims (p. lxxvii) is attended with similar ceremonies.

The great festival of the MoL1D EN-NEBI, the birthday of the prophet,
is celebrated at the beginning of Rabi' el—awwel, the third month. The
preparations for it begin on the second day of the month, and the most
important ceremonies take place on the evening of the eleventh. The
city, and particularly the scene of the festival, is then illuminated by
means of lamps hung on wooden stands made for the purpose. Proces-
sions of dervishes (p. lxx) parade the streets with ﬂags by day, and with
lamps hoisted on poles by night. On this evening the sellers of sweet-
meats frequently exclaim — ‘A grain of salt for the eye of him who will
not bless the Prophet!‘ The Déseh, or ceremony of riding over the der-
vishes, also took place on the eleventh of this month. Some ﬁfty der-
vishes or more lay close together on the ground, and allowed the shekh
0f the Sa‘diyeh dervishes on horseback to ride over them. Accidents
rarely happened, although the horse trod on every one of the prostrate
ﬁgures. During this ceremony the spectators shouted incessantly, ‘Allah-
la- la- la-lah- lah‘.‘ This barbarous custom was forbidden by the Khedive
Tewﬁk, and the ceremonies are conﬁned to the procession of the shekh and
the reading of the Koran in the Khedive s tent. At night a great zikr
is performed by the dervishes (p. lxxi). On this festival as on all the
other ‘molids , the jugglers, buffoons, and other ministers of amusement,
ply their calling with great success (comp. p. xxiv).

In the fourth month, that of Rabi el- Akht‘z (et— tdm‘), occurs the pecu-
liarly solemn festival of the birthday or Mélt'd of Hosé/z, the prophets
grandson, the principal scene of which is the mosque of Hosen, where
the head of Hosen is said to be interred. This festival lasts ﬁfteen days
and fou1teen nights, the most important day being always a Tuesday (yém
et-teldta). On this occasion the ‘1lwdm‘yeh Derm‘shes (p. lxx) sometimes
go through their hideous performance of chewing and swallowing burning
charcoal and broken glass, and their wild dances. On the chief days, and
on their eves, great crowds congregate in and around the mosque On
these occasions the Koran is read aloud to the people, the streets adjoining
the mosque are illuminated, the shops are kept open, and story— tellers,
jugglers and others of the same class attract numerous patrons.

In the middle of Regeb, the seventh month, is the Malt'd of Seyideh
Ze‘nab (‘Our Lady Zenab ), the granddaughter of the prophet. The fes-
tival, which lasts fourteen days, the most important being a Tuesday, is
celebrated at the mosque of the Seiyideh Zenab (p. 56), where she is said
to be buried. — On the 27th of this month is the Lelet el 1112‘: «9 0r night
of the ascension of the prophet, the celebration of which takes place
outside the Bath el- ‘Adawi, in the N. suburb of Cairo.

On the ﬁrst, or sometimes on the second, Wednesday of Sha'bdn, the
eighth month the Mélid of Imdm Shdfe'z' is commemo1ated, the centre of
attraction being the burial- p—lace of El- Karafeh (p. 68). This festival is
numerously attended, as most of the Cairenes belong to the sect 0fI1nan1
Shafei (p. lxx). The ceremonies are the same as at other molids.

The month of Ramadan (p. lxix), the ninth, is the month of fasting,
which begins as soon as a Muslim declares that he has seen the neW
moon. The fast is strictly observed during the day, but the faithful in-
demnify themselves by eating, drinking, and smoking throughout the
greater part of the night. At dusk the streets begin to be thronged, the
story- -tellers at the cafés attract large audiences, and many devotees as-
semble at the mosques. The eve of the 27th of the month is considered
peculiarly holy. It is called the Lélet el- Kad: , or night of honour, owing
to the tradition that the Koran was sent down to Mohanlmed on this
night. During this sacred night the angels descend to mortals with bless.
ings, and the portals of heaven stand open, affording certain admission to
the prayers of the devout.

