8.1)9rd—Medineh. THEBES (w. BANK). 24. Route. 293

We next descend to No. 88, the Tomb of Ime-etwé, an ofﬁcial of the
temple ofAmmon in the reign of Ramses 1X. (20th l)yn.). This tomb was
originally constructed under the 18th Dyn., but 1me-etw‘é coated the old reliefs
with a layer of stucco, on which he placed his own paintings. The festal
barges with the name of the king should be noticed, as well as the golden
utensils and (on the left wall) King Ramses 1X. sacrificing to the boat of
Ammon and to the statues of his ancestors. — A little to the W. is the
Tomb of Nespneferhor, a scribe under Herihor, with pretty ceiling-patterns.
— Lower down is the Tomb of Hepu-nofer, high-priest of Ammon under
Hatshepsowet.

We ﬁnally descend to the plain, where there are a few more tombs to
be seen in the direction of el—Asasif, including that of Neferhotep, a priest
who lived under King Haremheb, with fine ceiling-decorations and incised
designs. To the right a funeral s0ng is inscribed: ‘Let us then sing and
strike the harp in thy presence. Leave all cares behind and think of the
joys, until the day of the voyage comes when man casts anchor on the land
which delights in silence‘. — Near this are the tombs of another Nefer-
hotep, overseer of the cattle of Ammon (now used as a magazine by the
keeper of the antiquities), of Kheriz/f, of the time of Amenophis 111., of
Moi, an ofﬁcial in charge of the embankmenis. and of Kenr, scribe of the
silver-house in the temple of Ammon. The last has gaily painted domestic
scenes and the plan of a house.

8. Dér el-Medineh.
Kurnet Murra’i. Tombs of the Queens.

No one should miss seeing the beautiful small Ptolemaic temple of
BET el-Medz‘neh. The Tomb of Huge at Kurnet Murrai (p. 295) has of late
been inaccessible. The Tombs of the Queens (p. 296), for which at least
11/; hr. must be allowed, lie somewhat out of the way relatively to what
they have to offer. We may, however, go on to visit them from Medinet
Habu and take Dér el-Medineh in returning.

About 1/2 M. to the W. of Shékh ‘Abd el-Kurua, on the way
either to Medinet Habu (p. 297) or to the Tombs of the Queens
(p. 296), is the graceful *Temple of Dér
el-Medineh, founded by Ptolemy IV.
Philopator and completed by Philometor
and Euergetcs 11., which was principally
dedicated to Hathor, goddess of the
dead, and to Maat. It lies in a barren
hollow, in which several fragments of
buildings are to be seen, and is sur-
rounded by a lofty wall of dried bricks
which are ﬁtted together in waving
lines. Through this a Doorway of stone

-(on the S.E.) leads into the temple-
precincts, at the back of which (N)
are steep rocks. The traveller on pas-
sing through the doorway in the outer
wall sees before him the temple of free-
stone, on the smooth facade of which,
crowned with a hollow cornice, many . . _
Greeks and Copts have written their names. In Christian-times
it was used by the monks as a dwelling—place, and to this is due

 

 

 

 

