238 Route ~24. THEBES (E. BANK). 1. Temple

were followed by the destruction of many pagan statues and the
obliteration of many pagan inscriptions. The Nile, which annually
overﬂowed as far as the temple of Karnak, and the saline exudations
of the soil, wrought harm; jackals and other animals sought shelter
in the subterranean chambers; many tombs, at ﬁrst occupied by
Christian hermits, were converted into peasants’ dwellings; Christian
churches were erected in the temple—halls, and houses were built
between the columns of the temple at Luxor. Carefully hewn blocks
and slabs were removed from the monuments, which were used as
quarries, and many limestone details were thrown into the furnace
and reduced to lime. Whither the enormous population of the
hundred—gated Thebes betook itself is unknown. A few widely
scattered villages alone now represent the giant city.

A. THE EAST BANK AT THEBES.

1. Luxor.

The main entrance to the temple by the great pylon (p. 239) is now
closed. We therefore leave the pylon to the last and proceed from the
road on the bank of the river to the court of Amenophis III. (p. 244) and
thence through the colonnade (p. 244) to the court of Ramses II. (p. 240),
where we begin our inspection ofthe various chambers. Admission-tickets
(p. 184) must not be forgotten. In the following description, however, the
pylon is mentioned ﬁrst. A ‘Notice explicative des Ruines du Temple de
Louxor‘, by Daressy, may be purchased at the Luxor hotels.

To the S.’ of the town and close to the bank of the Nile rises
the —

*Temple of Luxor (Pl. A, B, 3, 4). The mediaval and later
buildings which once encumbered it have been cleared away, though
the little mosque of Abu’l Haggag still stands within its N. part.
The temple was built by Amenophis 111. (18th Dyn.) on the site of
an older sanctuary of sandstone, and was dedicated to Ammon, his
wife Mut, and their son, the moon-god Khons. Like all Egyptian
temples, it included the sanctuaries with their adjoining rooms and
antechambers, a large hypostyle hall, and an open peristyle court.
The last was to have been preceded by a large hypostyle hall with
three aisles, but only the central row of columns was erected at the
death of the king. The temple was then 207 yds. in length, while
its greatest breadth was 60 yds. Opposite the temple was a granite
chapel (p. 240), erected by 'l‘hutmosis 111. During the religious
revolution under Amenophis IV. (p. 203) the representations and
name of Ammon were obliterated, and a sanctuary of the ‘Sun’ was
built beside the temple. Tut-enkh-Amon (p. lxxxii) transferred the
royal residence back to Thebes, and caused the unﬁnished great
hypostyle hall to be hastily completed and the walls to be decorated
with reliefs (p. 241), in which Haremheb afterwards substituted
his own name for that of his predecessor. The ‘Temple of the Sun’
was destroyed, and in the reign of Sethos the ﬁgures of Ammon

