of Cairo. 'ABBASiYEH. 5. Route. 77

the garden commands a good survey of the grounds. r[he large
building to the N. is a house of correction.

The ‘Abbasiyeh, which lies in a healthy situation on the edge
of the desert7 about 11/2 M. to the N.E. of the B606 Huséniyeh
(Pl. E, 1; p. 64), is a group of houses and barracks, founded by
“Abbas Pasha in 1849. On the right side of the principal street
stand the Hotel Abbas (p. 25) and the viceregal Military School and
Barracks, equipped in the European style; on the left side are the
European and the Austrian Hospitals (p. 28), more Barracks, the
conspicuous Fadawiyeh Mausoleum (end of the 18th cent.), and
the viceregal Observatory (to be removed to Helwan; see p. 155).
—— The railway-station of Demirdash (p. 106) lies to the W. of
rAbbasiyeh; a goods—linethence to Helwan passes through the village.

The main road at ‘Abbésiyeh crosses the embankment of the old
railway to Suez, and, near the station and village of Kubbeh (p. 106),
also the railway to Merg. About 11/2 M. from “Abbasiyeh, not
quite halfway to Matariyeh, it passes the garden (no admission) of
the Winter-residence of the present Khedive (marked Palais Taufila
on our Maps). — Thence to Matari‘yeh, see p. 106.

The Gebel el-Ahmar, or Red Mountain, rises to the E. of'Abbasiyeh.
At its base, reached by a carriage-road diverging to the right a short
distance outside the Bab Huse‘m‘yeh (p. 64), is an old Vicer'egal Chateau.
The mountain consists of'a very hard miocene conglomerate of sand,
pebbles, and fragments of fossil wood. cemented together by means of
silicic acid, and coloured red or yellowish brown with oxide of iron.
For many centuries the quarries here have yielded excellent and durable

mill-stones, and material for the construction of the roads of Cairo and
Alexandria,

6. The Museum of Gizeh.

The Electric Tramway t0 the Pyramids passes near the Museum; fares
from the Great Nile Bridge 10 mill., 5 mill.; time 14 minutes. Visitors
should bear in mind that the Great Nile Bridge is closed for trafﬁc twice
daily (comp. p. 75).

On the left bank of the Nile7 opposite the island of Roda7 stands
the Palace of Gizeh, just below the now decayed village of Gizeh,
which is mentioned in the middle ages as a summer-residence of the
Mameluke sultans. This palace now contains the great siceregal col-
lection of Egyptian antiquities. -— We cross the Nile by the Great
Iron Bridge from Kasr en-Nil (p. 75) to the starting-point of the
electric tramway on the island of Gezireh (p. 75), and then cross
a second bridge (Port! 0163 Anglais; to the left the custom—house),
over the periodically dry arm of the Nile. Beyond this bridge the
busy road to Gizeh, which is shaded by beautiful lebbek-trees, diver-
ges to the left and skirts the bank of the Nile, which is peopled by
a motley throng. (The road straight on leads to the railway-station
of Bdlak ed—Dakri‘ir, p. 130.) On the right are the buildings of

