232 Route 23. Luis.

Roman period was one of the chief emporia for the wares of Arabia
and India. The town stood under the protection of the ithyphallic
harvest-god Min (Pan), who was also the patron of travellers in the
desert. During the great rebellion in Upper Egypt under Diocle-
tian (292 A.D.) Koptos was besieged and destroyed, but quickly
recovered from the blow. Down to the time of the Khalifs it re-
mained a populous and thriving trading-town. To the SE. of the
modern town lay the ancient city, with a temple of Min, the ruins
of which were excavated in 1894 by Flinders Petrie.

At Koptos the great caravan-routes through the Arabian Desert to
the seaports on the Red Sea quittcd the Nile valley. The chief goals of
the caravans were the Sinaitic peninsula and the land of Punt (Pwenet),
situated about the modern Somali Coast, which yielded incense, ivory,
ebony, panther-skins, etc., and was regarded by the Egyptians as a land
of fabulous wonders, like India. Other caravans made for the det‘ Eam-
mdmdt in the desert, which produced a hard stone much prized by the
Egyptians, who used it largely for sculptures (comp. p. 346). At a later
period the caravan—trade was diverted to the routes via Kris and ﬁnally
to those via Keneh.

191/2 M. (E. bank) Kus (railway—station, p. 192), aptown of
14,200 inhab., opcupies the site of the ancientApollonopolz‘s Parva,
where the god Haroéris was worshipped. According to Abulfeda
(d. 1331) this town, now entirely vanished, was second in size only
to Fostat (Cairo), and was the chief centre of the Arabian trade.

A few stones with fragmentary inscriptions have been built into the
houses of the town, and the mosque contains a basin formed of a single
stone, with the name of Ptolemy Philadelphus upon it. A pylon, which
stood here 30 years ago, has now disappeared.

0n the W bank, opposite Kris, lies Tﬁkh (et- Tﬁk), inland from
which, on the edge of the desert, are the ruins of Ombos (excavated
by Flinders Petrie in 1895), not to be confounded with the town of
that name to the S. of Gebel Silsileh (p. 323). Set was the guardian
deity of this town. In the neighbourhood are extensive cemeteries
dating from the period ofthe ﬁrst Egyptian dynasties. —— Near Shenhur
(E. bank), 3 M. to the S. of Kris, Prisse d’Avennes discovered the
ruins ofa small temple of Isis. To the E. passes the canal of
Shenhur, which begins above Thebes and extends N. to Keneh.

221/2 M. (W. bank) Nachdeh, a town of 6800 inhab. (4500 Copts),
with post and telegraph ofﬁces, a Coptic and a Roman Catholic
church, presents a picturesque appearance from the river. The
traveller who lands here near sunset on a Sunday or festival will
be pleasantly surprised to hear the sound of church-bells.

To the N. of Nakadeh the Tomb of Menes, the first Egyptian King
(p. lxxv), was discovered by De Morgan in 1&97; it is a large mastaba of
brick, now much damaged.

On the edge of the desert, between Nakadeh and Kamﬁleh (see p. 233),
lie four ancient Cor-r10 Coxvnrv'rs, said to date from the time of the Em-
press Helena. .Dér el-Meldk, the largest, is built of crude bricks and con-
tains four connected churches, of which the largest is dedicated to St-
Michael. The convent, which has 28 domes, is now unoccupied, and is
used for divine service only on certain festivals by the clergy of Nakadeh. —-

The other convents are those of Es-Salib (near Denfik), Mari Girgz's, and
Mari Bolrlz' (St. Victor). The last, with frescoes in its domes, is the oldest.

