Ground Floor. MUSEUM OF GIZEH. 6. Route. 81

period; 39. Granite statue of King Ra-en-woser; 37. Alabaster statue
of a king. The last two are from Abydos.

W. wall: 55. Door-shaped stele from the tomb of Prince Woser,
at Khizam (between the Ancient and Middle Empires).

N. wall. Case A: Smaller articles from tombs of the Ancient
Empire; small bronze and alabaster vases; sacriﬁcial geese, in
limestone; small tablet with sacriﬁcial oﬂ’erings. — Case B: Vases
and sacriﬁcial tablets.

E. wall: 46, 45. Headless statues of Khephren, from the granite
temple at Gizeh (p. 124); 38. Alabaster statue of King Men-kew-
Hor (5th Dyn.); 41. Alabaster statue of Khephren, 40. Diorite
statue of Mencheres (Mycerinos), from Abydos.

S. wall: 49. Inscription, in which the deceased Una, a high
ofﬁcial, records his exploits under the three Pharaohs, Teti, Pepi I.,
and Mer-en-re.

ROOM IV. Steles, sacriﬁcial stones, and statues dating from the

Early Empire. In the centre: Cofﬁn of a court-ofﬁcial of King
Mencheres.

RooM V. In the centre: **64. Statue of King Khephren, found
in the well of the granite temple (p. 126).

The king is represented in life-size, sitting on a throne, which is
borne by lions. At the sides of the seat are the arms of Egypt: and on
the back is a hawk, protecting the king’s head with its outspread wings.
The statue (diorite) is the work of a late period.

*74. SarcOphagus of Prince Bef—Hor, in pink granite, embel-
lished with representations of palace-facades. —— *1341. Wooden
statue of the guardian Spirit (Ka) of King Hor, represented as a nude
man bearing the hieroglyph ‘Ka’ on his head; found in the kings
tomb beside the S. brick pyramid at Dahshﬁr (p. 163). -— 1344. Two
alabaster sarcophagi (Middle Empire), from Dahshﬁr; 1345. Sand-
stone ohest, painted in imitation of granite, for the entrail-jar of
Khnemhotep, from Dahshﬁr. Four stone—chests for entrail-jars,
from Dahshﬁr.

N. side (entrance-wall): 68, 69. Door-shaped stele and broad
pillars from a tomb at Sakkara,

E. side: 1343. Stele and sacriﬁcial table from a tomb of the
Middle Empire, at Dahshﬁr.

S. side: 1346. Entrail—jars, with lids in the shape of human
heads, found in tombs beside the N. and S. brick pyramids at
Dahshﬁr. —— Various sticks from tombs at Dahshﬁr.

W. side: 1342. Wooden naos, in which the statue N0. 1341 stood.

This room also contains statues and large door-shaped steles of
the Ancient Empire.

Room VI contains door-shaped steles and statues, all dating
from the Ancient Empire.

ROOM VII. -— The glass-cases in the middle of the room contain
the ”‘Ornaments.

BAEDEKER' s Egyﬂl.-faﬂLEd.. 6

