to Assuc’in. KeM 0MBO. 28. Route. 325

The GREAT HYPOSTYLE HALL (Pronaos) contains 10 columns with
rich ﬂoral and palm-capitals, on which the roof rested. On the shafts
appears Neos Dionysos sacriﬁcing to the gods. The ceiling of the
two main aisles is embellished with flying vultures , while the under
srde of the arehitrave supporting this ceiling bears astronomical
desrgns (star-gods in their boats, etc.) We may observe the lines
drvrdrng the surface into squares to guide the artist in drawing the
ﬁgures, and also some older sketches that were not carried to com-
pletlon. The mural reliefs here are especially beautiful, the ﬁnest
being that to the right of the N. portal (on screen-wall h). We here
see the king (Neos Dionysos), in presence of Haroeris (to the right),
being blessed by a lion-headed Isis and the hawk-headed Harsiésis,
on the right, and by the goddess Newt and the ibis—headed Thout,
on the left. _

The remaining mural reliefs may be inspected by those who are not press—
ed for time. On Screen Wall t': the guardian—goddesses of Upper and Lower
Egypt blessing the king (Neos Dionysos), to the left stand the crocodile-
headed Sobk and his companion Hathor. — To the left, above the small
Door 1:: Neos Dionysos- sacriﬁcing to four fabulous monsters (including a
winged lion with four heads), the animals have been scratched out. —- Up-
posite, on Wall l, are three rows. Bottom Row: to the right are Euergetes Il.
and Cleopatra (upper parts wanting) in presence of Subk and his fellow-
gods Hathor and P—neb-tew‘e; in the middle, the king before the hawk-
headed Haro‘eris and the ‘good sister", to the left Euergetes presents the
temple of Ombos to Sobk and Hathor. Middle Row: to the right the king
(wanting) sacrifices to Usiris enthroned, Isis (before whom is her youthful
son), and Nephthys; in the middle huergetes presents tlowers to the earth-
god Ueb and the sky-goddess Newt; to the left Euergetes offers two jars
of wine to Show and the lion-headed Tefnut. Top Row: to the right, the
king (wanting) before Haro'eris, the ‘good sister‘, and P-neb-tew'e; in the
middle he offers an ornament to Sobk and Khons-Hor; to the left Euergetes
offers milk to Sobk and Hathor. — On Wall m, to the left of the left
entrance to the next room, are three rows of similar scenes.

The SMALL HYPOSTYLE HALL is entered by two doors. Its ceil-
ing, which was lower than that of the great hall, was supported by
10 columns with ﬂoral capitals. On each shaft Euergetes II. is
shown sacriﬁcing to a god; the mural reliefs also show him in com-
munion with the gods. The relief on the left (NJ wall should be
noticed: the hawk—headed Haroeris presents the curved sword to
Euergetes 11., behind whom are his sister Cleopatra and his wife of
the same name. The sacred crocodile of Ombos is represented at
P1. n, between the doors leading from the great hall.

Between the doors leading hence to the inner rooms of the temple are
reliefs showing Philometor, elder brother of Euergetes 11., sacrrﬁcrng to
the hawk-headed Haroéris.

The following three smaller VESTIBULES, each of which lies a
little higher than the preceding, are also embellished w1th ﬁne
reliefs. Adjoining are a number of side-chambers, which may have
been used as storerooms; those to the left (N.) have almost com-
pletely disappeared. 0n the rear—wall of Vestibule 111, between
the doors, is a ﬁne relief: Philometor, clad in a white mantle and
accompanied by Cleopatra, stands before the hawk-headed moon

