252 Route 24. THEBES (E. BANK). 2. Kamak:

vances at a walk, turns towards the princes of Palestine, who do him
hOmage with uplifted hands. Behind the king are a fortress and the costly
vessels brought as tribute. Above and below the horses are seen small
castles, built by the king to protect the water—stations. 2. Battle against
the Berluins of S. Palestine (see p. 251). The king shoots arrows against
the enemy, the surviv0rs of whom ﬂee to the mountains. Beneath are
several castles and wells, with the wounded lying beside them. 3. Victor-
ious return of the king from Syria. The king stands in his chariot,
preceded and followed by fettered captives. The boundary between Asia
and Africa is marked by a canal, bordered by reeds, in which crocodiles
swim, the canal is spanned by a bridge, at each end of which is a fortiﬁed
guard-house. On the Egyptian side (to the right) two groups of priests,
with nosegays, and grandees welcome the returning monarch. 4. The king
leads his captives before Ammon, and presents at the same time the costly
vessels taken amongst the booty. -, To the right and left of the door are
two colossal companion-reliefs, in which Ammon is represented holding
several rows of captured nations and cities by cords, and presenting the
sword of victory to King Sethos, who raises his club against a band of
foes whom he holds by the hair (comp. p. 248).

We turn next to the W. PART (P1. f) OF THE N. WALL, which we in-
spect from right to left. Top Row. Storming of Kadesh in the land of
Amor (N. Palestine). The king in his chariot (ﬁgure of the king wanting)
shoots against the foe, a hostile chariot has been overthrown by the royal
chariot. To the right, on a tree-clad height, appears the fortress of Kadesh,
the defenders of which are pierced with arrows. At the foot of the hill
a herd of cattle, accompanied by the herdsmen, takes to ﬂight. -— Middle
Row. 1. Battle against the Libyans. The king in his chariot holds with his
how a Libyan, whom he is about to smite with the sword. To the right
are heaps of dead and wounded enemies. The Libyans are distinguished by
large pig-tails worn on one side and by feathers on their heads. The king
transﬁxes a Libyan with his lance. 3. The king in his chariot, preceded
by two rows of captured foes. 4. The king presents the captives and the
captured vessels to the Theban triad. — Bottom Row. 1. Battle against the
Hittites in N. Syria. The king in his chariot shoots against his foes, who
betake themselves to headlong ﬂight in chariots, on h0rseback, or on foot.
2. The king in his chariot grasps cords to which are fastened several
captives and two hostile chariots with their drivers. 3. The king leads
his captives before the Theban triad, who are in this instance accompanied
by the goddess of truth. Before the king are placed the captured vessels
devoted to the gods.

The reliefs on the 8. Wall (P1. 9, h) commemorate in similar
fashion the Syrian campaigns of Ramses 11., chieﬂy those against
the Hittites. About 40 ft. to the right (E) of the door a short wall
projects at right angles from the wall of the great temple, bearing
a most interesting and important inscription, containing the Treaty
of Peace concluded with the Hittites by Ramses II. in the ‘let year
of his reign. — 011 the S. exterior temple—wall, beyond the pro—
jecting wall, at P1. 2', we see Ramses II. leading two rows of cap-
tives before Ammon. Beneath, in long lines of hieroglyphics, is
the poetical account of the Hittite campaign (the so—called Epic of
Pentaur) that we have already met with on the pylon at Luxor
(p. 240). We now turn the corner at P1. k, and on the end of the
wall (beside the closed S.E. door of the hypostyle hall) ﬁnd a relief
of Ramses II. presenting to Ammon the captives and costly vessels
taken in the Syrian campaigns.

The Third Pylon, built by Amenophis III. and now completely
ruined, forms the rear-wall of the great hvoostvle court, into Which

