Temple ofBameJI. ABYDOS. 20. Route. 223

with seven columns, which was never completed. The sculptures
and hieroglyphics were sketched in colour under Sethos, and only a
few of them were afterwards ﬁnished as reliefs ‘en creux’. They
represent Sethos sacriﬁcing. The scenes in the lower row depict the
slaughter and cutting up of sacriﬁcial animals. The screens were
intended to veil the proceedings in the court from the Kings’ Gallery.

Adjoining this court are four unﬁnished rooms (Pl. A, B, C, D). In
the three ﬁrst the designs on the walls are merely sketched in; in D they
have been completed in colour. -— Rooms E—I lie one story higher and
can be entered only from the outside. H and I are ﬁlled with rubbish,
E-G contain unﬁnished representations dating from the reign ofMerenptah.

Returning now to the second hypostyle hall, we may pay a brief
visit to the Chamber which adjoins it on the left and was dedicated
to Ptah—Sokaris, god of the dead at Memphis. The roof is supported
by three simple columns without capitals (p. 220). The ﬁne reliefs
show Sethos revering Sokaris, Nefertem, and other gods.

Opening off this chamber are two small vaulted pels; that to the
right dedicated to Sokaris, that to the left to Neferte . 0n the left wall
of the former is a relief of Horus and Isis by the bier of Osiris, on Whose
mummy sits a sparrow-hawk (Isis); on the right wall are Isis and Horus
by the bier of Sokaris-Osiris, whose left hand is raised to his brow.

A few minutes to the N. of the Temple of Sethos I. lies the
Temple of Ramses II., which also was dedicated to Osiris. It is in
a very ruinous state, but still presents many features of interest.
The scanty traces of a spacious court may be made out in front of
the present entrance. Within, the ground—plan of a peristyle court
(decorated with Osiris-columns like the Ramesseum, p. 284), two
halls, the sanctuaries beyond them, and various other rooms can still
be traced; but the average height of the remaining walls is only
5-6 ft. To judge by the extant remains, this temple was a much
more sumptuous and more carefully built structure than any of the
other buildings of Ramses II. known to us. Not only ﬁne-grained
limestone, but also red and black granite (for the doors), sandstone
(for the columns), and alabaster (for the innermost shrine) were used
in its construction. The still brilliantly coloured mural decorations
in the rear-rooms are executed in delicate low relief recalling the
admirable sculptures under Sethos 1.; the ruder reliefs ‘en creux’
make their appearance only in the court and the ﬁrst hall, with the
adjoining rooms. The reliefs in the ﬁrst court represent a grand
procession.

On the right (‘NJ wall peasants are shown bringing oxen, antelopes,
geese, and other animals to four priests, of whom the ﬁrst records the
gifts, While the second oﬁers incense; farther to the right, the animals are
being slaughtered. On the left (E. 6L S.) walls are similar scenes. To the
left as we enter are persons with sacriﬁcial gifts, who are met by a pro-
cession of priests, soldiers, the royal war-chariot, captive negroes and
Asiatics, etc. The colouring of the ﬁgures is surprisingly well preserved.
In the rooms behind are much damaged religious representations.

On the outside of the temple, N. side, is an inscription relating to
the war waged by Ramscs II. against the Hittites; unfortunately only the
lower parts of lines are preserved. Adjacent are representations of events
in the war, similar to those of the Ramesseum at Thebes (pp. 284, 285).

