Fayam. CROCODILOPOLIS. 16. Route. 177

sacred to Sobk, and the Greeks therefore named the city Crocodilopolis,
or ‘crocodile-town‘. It never attained to any political importance. Ptol-
emy II. Philadelphus seems to have converted it into an essentially
Hellenic city by adding new quarters, founding Greek temples and educa-
tional institutions, and introducing the Greek language. This monarch
also raised Queen Arsinoe‘ to the dignity of patron-goddess, and the district
became known as the ‘A1-sinoitic_Nome‘, and the capital as the ‘City of
the dwellers in the Arsinoitic Nome’, or, more brieﬂy, as Arsinoé. At the
time of its greatest prosperity it had over 100,000 inhabitants.

For a visit to the ruins, we.proceed due N. from the mosque of
{Gift Bey, following the trodden path through the extensive modern burial-
place. The embankments, like ramparts, to the right and left, are re-
mains of Saltpetre Pans, such as were f0rmerly used to extract the sebakh-
salts from the rubbish-heaps of ruined towns. To the N. of that on the
left lies a mound of rubbish known as K6m el-Kharydna, the highest part
of which, es-Sdga, encloses the ruins of some large building. During the
last twenty years important discoveries have repeatedly been made here of
papyri, most of which are now in the Archduke Rainer‘s collection in
Vienna, while others are in the museums of Berlin and other towns. MOSt
of the papyri are Greek business documents (records, receipts, letters, etc.),
but some literary specimens have also been found, containing fragments
from Homer, Euripides, Thucydides, etc. Others are written in Coptic,
Persian, Syriac, or Arabic.

Beyond the railway-embankment, to the left, we now see the highest
mound, the Kém Fdrz‘s (65 ft.), the top of which commands a survey of
the whole of the Fayum. To the right (W.) are the black mound known
as K6m en-Numshz‘, and the long K6712 eg- Tag/02m, where papyri have also
been discovered. More to the N., on the W. verge of the ruins, rises the
K6m el-‘Aqlqlrimeh (‘bone—mound’), which was used in the 5-6th cent. after
Christ as the burial-place of the poorer inhabitants. In the tombs here
numerous toys, well-preserved textile fabrics, etc., have been found.

We follow the path to the N. and presently ﬁnd ourselves in a section
of the ruins, which, in Dr. Schweinfurth’s word, ‘to this day produces
the impression of a city but recently destroyed. The walls of the houses
still stand far and wide, but the narrow interlacing lanes, bewildering
in their ramiﬁcations and interrupted by countless trenches and holes in
the ground, render it impussible to obtain any clear idea of the general
plan’. 0n the extreme N. edge of the ruins, partly projecting into the
cultivated land, we may detect traces of the ancient principal temple,
which was dedicated to Sobk. This existed as early as the 12th Dyn.,
and was afterwards rebuilt by Ramses 11. Within the rectangular girdle-
wall, which was built of sun-dried bricks, lie fragments of an architrave
of red granite and isolated blocks of limestone bearing the names of
Ramses II. and other kings. Most of the temple, however, was removed
by the later inhabitants and incorporated in new buildings. Beside the
temple lay originally the sacred pond in which the crocodile of Sobk
was ke t.

Wep new turn to the W. and reach the Bohr Tirsa Canal, on which
are several water-wheels. The large mounds of rubbish at the village of
Menshiyet‘Abdullah probably also belonged to the ancient city. We return
southwards, skirting the canal and the edge of the cultivated ground. To
the right rises the large mound of Kim el-Bulgz‘yeh (‘mound of the Nile
carp”), on the 8. side of which are the walls of an apparently fortiﬁed
building, probably dating from the Arab period. Farther to the S. are
the K6m et-Taydra (see above), and the above-mentioned Saltpetre Poms.

EXCURSIONS. From Medinet el-Fayﬁm railways run via. :Sem‘u (Senaro)
and Ebshuat‘ (Abchaoum‘) to (1511.) Abuksu (p. 180), and via Biahmu to (71/2 M.)
Smarts (Sunourés).

The Fayoum Agricultural Light Railways also radiate in various
lirections from the railway-station. 1. Via Muml (Motoul), Garadu, and
Tobhm' to Nezleh. — 2. Via Abgufg (Beyig, see p. 178), Diﬁnnu (Dafomou),
Elsa, Ga‘afra, Shidmo (Chedmouh), and Shékh Abu N1” to Gharalc. On a desert
aeight to the W. of Gharak are the ruins of a Roman town. From Gharak

Bsnnnxnn‘s Egypt. 5th Ed. 12

