130.

127.
117.

106.

88.

S1.

80

80-52.

4.7.

45.

 

HISTORY. lxxxix

Ptolemy VII. Eupator, who, after a very short reign, gave
place to —

Ptolemy IX., who now assumed the title ofEuergetes (IL).
He married his brother’s widow and afterwards also his
niece Cleopatra.

Expelled by a revolution, Ptolemy IX. sought refuge in Cyp-
rus, while Cleopatra reigned in Egypt as Philometor So-
teira. Memphites, a son of Euergetes, became, under the
name Ptolemy VIII. Neos Philopator, a rival to his father,
who succeeded in murdering him.

Euergetes II. regained possession of the throne. After his
death the government was shared by his widow ——

Cleopatra 00cce and her son Ptolemy X. Soter II. (Lathwus).

Soter II. was banished, and his brother Ptolemy XI. Alex—
ander I. became co-regent in his stead.

Alexander, expelled by a rebellion, perished in a naval
battIe. Soter II. was recalled.

Thebes rebelled and was destroyed.

After the death of Soter II. Ptolemy XII. Alexander II.
married Cleopatra Berenice, with whom he reigned jointly.

He assassinated his wife and was himself slain.

Ptolemy XIII. Neos Dionysos (popularly called Auletes, Le.
‘the ﬂute-player”) next ascended the throne and was form-
ally recognized by Rome. The temple at Edfu (p. 315)
was completed. He was succeeded by his children —

Cleopatra and Ptolemy XIV., under the guardianship of
the Roman Senate. Pompey was appointed guardian.

Ptolemy XIV. banished Cleopatra. Pompey, having been
defeated at the battle of Pharsalia, sought refuge in Egypt,
but on landing was slain at the instigation of Ptolemy,
his ward.

Caesar landed at Alexandria (p. 8), took the part of the
banished Cleopatra, and defeated the rebellious Ptolemy,
Who was drowned in the Nile. — Caasar, having mean-
while become dictator of Rome, appointed ——

Ptolemy XV., the brother of Cleopatra, a boy of eleven, co-
regent.

Ptolemy XV. was assassinated at the instigation of Cleopatra,
and ——

Ptolemy XVI. Caesar (also called Ceesarion), her son by Cae-
sar, appointed co-regent.

Caesar was murdered.

. Antony, having summoned Cleopatra to Tarsus to answer for

the conduct of her general Allienus, who contrary to her
wishes had aided the army of Brutus and Cassius at Philippi,
was captivated by her beauty and talent. After having
spent years of debauchery With the Egyptian queen, he

