t. .rissiz‘zt. .mmwmms. 18. Route. 201

()n the W. bank the railway approaches (:loﬁe t0 the river.
176 M. Roda. (railway-station. p. 190; accommodation at the sta-
tion), a considerable place (5000 inhab.) on the W. bank, with post
and telegraph ofﬁces and a large sugar-factory.

About 4 M. inland (“7.) from Réda, between the Bahr Yﬁsuf and thc
Nile, near the village of Ashmunén, lie the ruins of the once famous
city of Khmumz (Coptic Shmum, the Hermopolz's of the Greeks, which
from a very remote period was thc chief seat of the worship of Thout,
the god of writing and slience. This town was also the capital of the
nome of hares, in Upper Egypt, whose princes under the Middle Empire
wcre buried on the E. bank of the Nile at el<Bersheh (see below). Nothing
now remains of the extensive temples of the ancient city. The Frcncli
Expedition found a tine Portico of the Ptolemaic period, with two rows
of six columns each. —— At. Tuna el-Gebel, near Ashmunén, are the extensive
necr0polis of the ancient city and a rock-inscription (much dilapidatel) of
Amenophis IV. (p. r203).

Nearly opposite Roda, on the E. bank, amid palms of unusual
size and beauty, lies the village of Shékh 'Abddeh, to the E. of which
are the ruins of Antinoupolis, the town erccted by Hadrian in
honour of his favourite Antinous. The handsome youth is said to
have drowned himself here, to fulﬁl the oracle which predicted a
heavy loss to the emperor and so to prevent a more serious disaster.
The remains of a temple of Ramses II., the relic of an earlier
foundation on this site, may be traced. The vestiges of public
buildings are now exceedingly scanty, though the French Expe-
dition saw a triumphal arch, a theatre, and streets ﬂanked with
columns. The streets and ground-plans of the houses, however,
are still recognisable. The rooms were small and the walls were
made mainly of Nile bricks. There are some underground apart-
ments of ﬂat Roman bricks, reached by stone staircases. Near the
ruins of one of the largest buildings lies a marble basin, which
must have had a circumference of at least 23 ft. Among the palms
in the village lies a ﬁne Corinthian capital.

To the S. of Sbékh ‘Abadeh we reach (179 M.) Der Abu Hennis
(Convent of St. John), called also simply ed-Dér, a village in-
habited by about 2000 Copts. Near it is a ruined town of the
Christian epoch, known as el-Medineh. On the N. side of a ravine
in the hill behind the village are numerous ancient cave-like quar-
ries, which were ﬁtted up at an early date as Christian chapels or
anchorites’ dwellings. The largest Chapel, in which divine service
is held, is said to date from the time of the Empress Helena; it
contains paintings of saints and scenes from the New Testament, but
those in one of the side-chapels (Raising of Lazarus, Marriage at
Cana, etc.) are better. — Dér en-Nakhleh [see below) may be
reached within 1/2 hr. from Dér Abu Hennis.

1811/2 M. Rémman, opposite which, on the E. bank, a little
way from the river, lies the Coptic village of Dér en-Nakhleh, the
rconvent 0f the date-palms’, also known as el-Bersheh. Beside a
Coptic cemetery to thc E. of the latter begins a desert-ravine,
running N.W. and S.W., and named Wz‘ldi en—Nalchleh or dei cl~

