TempleofAmmon. THEBES (E. BANK). 24. Route. 245

and Greek inscriptions, besides representations of foot-prints, placed here
by pilgrims to the temple.

Adjoining the temple of Khons on the S.W. is a Temple of
Osiris, built upon a basis about 12 ft. in height, crowned with a
hollow cornice. The keeper of the temple of Khous will open it on
request. The entrance is on the W. side; on the jambs appears the
king before Osiris and other deities. We enter ﬁrst a Rectangular
Hall, with a well-preserved ceiling resting upon two columns, with
calyx-capitals and heads of Hathol' on the abaci. The grated win-
dows at the top of the S. wall should be noted. To the right lie three
side-rooms with crypts; the door on the left is built up. — We
proceed through the central door into a Second Hall, ﬂanked by two
side-rooms, of which that to the left contains a representation of the
dead Osiris upon the bier. We then pass through a door, on the right
jamb of which appears Opet, the hippopotamus-goddess, and enter
the Sanctuary. The representations here show us the king (usually
Euergetes 11.) before the gods. From the Sanctuary a ﬂight of steps
descends to the chambers in the basement and to the exit-door.

b. THE GREAT TEMPLE or AMMON.

Proceeding through the lanes of Karnak in the direction of the
Nile, we soon reach the ﬁrst pylon of the great temple of Ammon.
The rectangular terrace in front of this was even in antiquity covered
by the waters of the inundation, as is indicated by marks on its
front, recording the height of the inundations under the 21st-26th
dynasties. On the terrace rises an Obelisk ofSethos II., beside which
is the base of its companion. A row of Krio-Sphinxes, erected by
Ramses II., extended from this point to the portal of the temple of
Ammon. The fragments of building to the S.W. of the right pylon-
tower belong to a Chapel, erected about 890 B.C. by King Akhoris
and his successor Psammuthis. In the interior Psammuthis appears
offering incense to the boat of Ammon.

The great “Temple of Ammon, the ‘Throne of the World’ as it
was ofﬁcially styled, was not built on any single uniform plan, but
owes its present form to the building activity of many successive
rulers of Egypt. From the Middle Empire to the Ptolemaic period
111081; of the Pharaohs took some share in adding to or adorning this
shrine, rivalling each other in the magnitude of their designs. The
foundation of the temple must be dated not later than the ﬁrst
monarchs of the 12th Dynasty. When Thutmosis I. ascended the
throne and made Thebes his capital, the original modest shrine
seemed no longer worthy of the dignity of the god, and the king
therefore added two colonnades and two pylons (Nos. V and IV) in
front of the temple. In the reign of Makere alterations and additions
were made in the interior only (on each side of the Sanctuary), and
these were Continued under her brother Thutmosis III., when he
became sole monarch. Thutmosis furthermore erected a separate

