KONG Tombs. ASSUAN. :39. Route. 333

scene. into squares for the guidance of the artist‘s hand may still he
seen 111 several of these designs. At the back of this hall is a Recess
with good reliefs and delicately executed hieroglyphics. On the
hack-wall of the recess the deceased is shown at table, with his son
hefore him carrying ﬂowers; on the right wall the mother of the
deceased sits at table, with the deceased standing at her right; on
the left wall is the deceased with his wife in front of him and his
son hehind him.

Farther on are the tombs of Aku (No. 3‘2), Khui (sanded up),
and Khunes. The ﬁrst contains a recess with a representation of
the deceased and his wife seated at a meal in an arhour, with their
son before them. In the tomb 0f Khunes are interesting represen—
tations of Egyptian craftsmen: hakers, potters, metal-workers beside
a furnace, hrewers, glass-blowers, leather-workers, etc. The two
last-named tombs were used as dwellings hy COptic monks from
the convent on the plateau, who have added various inscriptions
and ﬁgures of saints. —- Then follow the small tomh of lx'henusew
(sanded up) and the Tomb of Harkhuf, with inscriptions of great
historical importance. These inscriptions appear outside the tomh,
on each side of the entrance, ahove and heside ﬁgures of the deceased
(to the left, Harkhuf leaning on a long staff with his son holding a
censer in front of him). The inscriptions form an extract from the
biography of Harkhuf, recording especially four successful trading
expeditions to the Sudan, three of which were made in the reign
of Merenré (6th Dyn.) and one in that of King Nefer-er-ke-re. the
successor of Merenré. Among the goods brought hack 011 the fourth
journey was a dwarf.

Adjoining is the small tomb ofPepi-nakht (No. 35; sanded up),
with important inscriptions on each side of the doorway. These
extol the exploits of the deceased in the campaigns led hy King
Nefer-er-ke-ré against Nnhia and the Beduins dwelling to the E. of
Egypt. Farther on are the grave of Senmosé and ﬁnally the interest-
ing tomb (No. 36) of Si-renpowet, son of Sat-theni, and a prince
under Usertesen I. In the Court are six pillars, which supported
the roof of a colonnade; on the shafts are inscriptions and ﬁgures
of the deceased. On the Back Wall, to the left of the door, is a
large ﬁgure of the deceased followed hy his sandal-hearer and two
dogs; cattle are heing brought to him (notice the enraged hulls);
he appears in a hoat spearing ﬁsh. To the right of the door is a
large ﬁgure of the deceased followed by his how-hearer, a dog, and
his three sons. Ahove, the deceased is shown seated in a colonnade,
with four women with ﬂowers in front of him; below are two women
and a man gamhling. — Within the tomb is a small Hall, with
pillars. .The representations on the walls are unfortunately much
injured; at the foot of the walls river-scenes are shown (ships, boats,
ﬁshing). On the pillars are ﬁgures of the deceased and highly in—
teresting scenes from the life of his province: granaries, scribes

