Quarters. CAIRO. 4. Route. 63

in 1799. These solidly built gates are, along with the Bab ez-Zuwéleh
(p. 48), the only survivors ofthe sixty in the Fatimite walls of Cairo
and were erected by the vizier Bedr el-Gamali in the 11th century.
Their plan resembles that of ancient Roman gateways. Both have
an outer and an inner gate, ﬂanked by square or round towers, and
united by means of a vaulted inner court.

In the Mohammedan cemetery outside the Bab en-Nasr is buried Jo-
hann Ludwig Burckhardt (d. 1817), known to the Arabs as ‘Shékh lbréhim‘,
the distinguished Oriental traveller, whose works are still of high author
ity. — The two towers with iron basins, which we observe on the left,
belong to the City Water Works, constructed in=1865-66 and several times
enlarged. The water is pumped up from the Nile by steam. — From the
Bab en-Nasr to the Tombs of the Khalifs, see p. 64.

 

Bdb el-Futm} Bdb en-Nasr
(From the side next the town.)

We return from the B31) en-Nasr by the Shari’a Bt‘lb en-Nasr,
passing (right) the Okella of Ka'it Bey (p. 66), one of the most
interesting secular structures in Cairo. Farther on, in the Shari‘a
el-Gamaliyeh (Pl. E, 3, ‘2), to the left, is the Conventual Mosque of
Sultan Biba'rs el— Gashankir(1302), with the tomb of the founder. We
next follow the Senaniyeh to the right to the Shari'a en-Nahhasin
and Khordagiyeh, the Sikkeh el-Gedideh, and the Muski (p.42).

The remaining features of the N. quarters are of little interest.
The principal thoroughfare is the Shdri'a or Boulevard Clot Bey (Pl.
0, B, 2), which runs to the N.W. from the N.E. angle of the
Ezbekiyeh (p. 39), to the Liman Bridge and the Railway Stations
(p. 24-). —— In a side-street to the W. of the Shari‘a Clot-Bey lies
the Chief Coptic Church (Pl. 0, 2), recently built and dedicated
to St. Mark. The interior is architecturally uninteresting, but it is
well worth while to attend a Coptic service here (1). 71). Adjacent
are schools and the house of the Coptic Patriarch. — The open
‘place’ at the end of the Sh‘ari‘a Clot-Bey is known as the Rand
Point dc Faggala or Méddn Bdb el-Hadid (Pl. B, 2). At the end of
the Shari'a Bab el-Hadid, which also leads hither from the W. side
of the Ezbekiyeh, is the handsome Sybil of the Mother of Isma'il
Pasha (Pl. B, ‘2).

