Dér el-bahrri. THEBES (w. BANK). 24. Route. 281

built over the water amongst palms and incense—trees; and ladders
lead up to the entrances. In the 10wer row, to tbe rigbt, is the re-
ception of tbe Egyptian envoy and his suite by the Prince of Punt;
above, tbe envoy in front of his tent, looking at the gifts that have
been heaped upon him. —— 0n the W. Wall we see the Egyptian
ﬂeet setting sail (Pl. 9) and (above) its arrival at Punt, where it
is laden with precious merchandize. Farther on (P1. h) the queen
(eﬁaced), followed by her guardian-spirit, dedicates to Ammon the
spoils of tbe expedition, consisting of panther-skins, ebony, sacks
of cosmetic, and electrum; cattle feed beneath tbe trees; at Pl. 1' gold
and electrum are being weigbed in presence of Sefkhet—ebui, who
records the results, Horus presides at the scales, and behind him is
the Nubian god Tetwen. Below we see tbe incense being measured,
while Thout notes down the results; close by are seven incense
trees in tubs, imported from Punt. At P1. In Thutmosis III. oﬁers
incense to tbe boat of Ammon, which is borne by priests; at P1. l
is Makere before Ammon (a long inscription between tbem has been
erased). — On the N. Wall, at P1. m, the queen (scratched out) is
seated beneath a canopy, with her guardian-spirit bebind her.

At the left (8.) end of the Punt Colonnade is a curious little
SHRINE on Burton, goddess of tbe dead (p. cxxvi), wbich was also
reached from below by a ﬂigbt of steps. The innermost chambers,
which are bewn in the rock, are preceded by two covered Colonnades
(now in ruins). The ﬁrst of these had sixteen-sided columns and
square pillars with Hathor- capitals; the second, which lay at a slightly
higher level, had four columns with round shafts (three still stand-

ing) and also sixteen-sided columns (six partly remaining).

There are still a few Wall Decorations in the second colonnade. On the
N. Wall (Pl. n): Thutmosis III. with an oar, in presence of a goddess;
to the right is a. procession, consisting of three rows with two ships in
each and (below) soldiers with standards and axes (to the right two
soldiers dancing to castanets).— 0n the S. Wall (Pl. o)-: Sacriﬁcial scene,
and a boat containing a Hathor-cow, with Queen Makere drinking from
the udder. — 0n the W. Wall (to the right): Thutmosis II. (replacing
Makere), with an oar and a builder‘s square, before Hathor (whose ﬁgure
was defaced by AmenOphis 1V.):, the king, whose hand is licked by the
Hathor—cow. These are repeated to the left.

We ascend two steps to the Shrine proper, which comprised
three chambers (Pl. A, B, 0), each of whicb has several recesses.
The ceiling of Room A, which is decorated with stars on a blue
ground, is supported by two sixteen-sided columns. The reliefs,
whicb those who have leisure may examine, show Makere or Thut-
mes lII. witb several deities. —— Room B contains *Wall Reliefs of
unusual beauty. They represent Makeré (scratched out) presenting
offerings of all kinds to the Hathor-cow, Wbich stands in a boat
beneath a canopy. The little nude boy, holding' a sistrum, in front
of the queen, is Ehi, son of Horus. —— Room 0 has a pointed roof.
On each of the side-walls is an admirable relief of Makeré drinking
from the udder of the Hathor-cow, before which stands Ammon

