324 Route 23. KOM OMBO. me Ed/‘u

liefs by Philometor, Euergetes 11., and Neos Dionysos. The reliefs
in the court and on the outer walls, however, were added under the
Roman emperors, more especially under Tiberius. The Ptolemaic
reliefs are easily distinguished from those of the emperors, as they
are in low relief while the latter are ‘en creux’. In its general
arrangements the temple of Ombos resembles other temples of the
same period (at Deudera, Edfu, and Philéel, but it differs from
them in being dedicated to two deities instead of to one only. Each
of these two deities had his own special worship and festivals, so
the entire building is bisected longitudinally by an imaginary line,
each half having its own gateways, doorways, and chapels. The
or right half was dedicated to Sobk, the N. or left half to Haroéris.

The PYLON, at the entrance to the temple—court, had two doors.
The left half has completely vanished; while only the lower part of

the central pillar (between the doors) and of the right wing remain.

0n the outer side (facing the river) of the right wing are the follow-
ing representations, from left to right: P]. a. Sobk, Hathor, and Khons—
Hor, the gods worshipped in the right half of the temple. P1. b. Hiero-
glyphic text, of 52 lines. Pl. 6. Emp. Domitian, with the crown of Upper
Egypt, accompanied by 14 gods and goddesses, otfering gifts to the above
mentioned deities.

At the corner to the right (above P1. c) the upper row of representations
also has been preserved: six spirits (the last three with jackals‘ heads)
carrying a (defaced) shrine, f0110Wed by images of the gods bearing the

symbols '% (‘life’) and (‘happiness') on long poles; ﬁnally a large

ﬁgure of the king, preceded by a priest offering.r incense and followed by
his guardian spirit (with a king’s head upon a sceptre).

The COURT, as at Edfu, was surrounded on three sides by colon—
nades. Only the lower portions of the 16 columns are now left.
The reliefs on these, the colouring of which is in places admirably
preserved, represent Tiberius sacriﬁcing to the gods. On the inner
side of the right wing of the pylou are two doors, one of which
(Pl. d) admits to a small apartment, the other (Pl. e) leads to a
staircase by Whit'll the roof of the pylon was gained. The square
basement in the centre of the court was probably an altar; let into
the ground beside it are two small granite troughs, into which
drink—offerings may have been poured. In this, as in all the other
rooms of the temple, the ancient pavement is in excellent preserva—
tion. The rear of the court is separated from the adjoining great
hypostyle hall by screen-walls, in which are two large portals and
two smaller doorways. On the screen-wall to the right (Pl. 7") is a
relief of the hawk-headed Horns and the ibis-headed Thout pouring
the water of consecration upon King Neos Dionysos, to the left of
whom is the crocodile-headed Sobk. the lord of the right half of the
temple. 0n the left wall (Pl. 9) the same scene takes place before
the hawk-headed Haroéris, to whom the left half of the temple is
dedicated. The screen-walls are crowned with serpents, with sun
disks on their heads.

