Ground Floor. MUSEUM OF GIZEH. 6’. Route. 91

*295. Siren playing the lyre, found in the Greek Serapeum at
Sakkara.

296, 2961). Monuments from Memphis, referring to the worship
of Mithras; 298. Large porphyry statue in the late-Roman style
(Alexandria; head wanting); 300. Greeco—Roman marble statue;
302. Porphyry bust of a Roman emperor, perhaps Maximianus Her-
culius (305-313 A.D.); beside it a Roman portrait-bust, completely
polished, from about the reign of Trajan; 303. Marble statue of a
Roman lady; 304. Granite stele, with the name of the Emperor
Trajan (from Ptolemai‘s). — *306. Colossal marble face of Serapis
(only the face and portion of the throat preserved), the new god
introduced by the Ptolemies, erroneously named ‘Nile God’. 310.
Relief from Luxor of Isis and of Serapis killing a gazelle (perhaps
a form of the god Antaeus, p. cxxv).

In the N.W. corner: no number, Trilingual inscription of 0. Cor-
nelius Gallus, found at Philae (p. 343) in 1896. The inscription
dates from the ﬁrst year of the Emp. Augustus and in hieroglyphics,
Latin, and Greek extols the military exploits of Gallus in Egypt.

ROOMS XLI and XLII. Tombstones and other monuments of tho
Coptic Christian period, the most important being Nos. 311—314.

We return to Room‘XL, whence a staircase ascends to the upper
ﬂoor. -— On the staircase, marked XLIII on the plan: ——

e. Alexandrian Terracottas and Greece-Roman Glass.

This collection of terracotta ﬁgures of the Roman period is the
largest of the kind in existence, next to that in the museum at

Alexandria.

Case A. Representations of Harpocrates, the son of Osiris and Isis,
recognized as a child by the ﬁnger in his mouth and the lock of hair.
He appears in innumerable forms, sitting‘or standing, with the urn, on
horseback, on the goose, or on the Uraeus-serpent, as a warrior, etc.; once
(No. 315) with a hieroglyphic inscription.

Case B. Top row, to the left: Nubian slave with basket of fruit.
Central compartment: Isis ending in a serpent’s body‘; Aphrodite beside
the bath; Sphinx. —- Second row: Figures of Priapus. Central com-
partment: Serapis seated with Cerberus by her side, Isis, L‘anepliorae, etc.
—- Third row, to the left: in front, Selection of heads of caricature ﬁgures,
which appear to represent comic personages, dwarfs, and also characters
from the Alexandrian stage. Central section: Isis suckling the bull;
Demeter with the torch; Zeus borne by the eagle. — Fourth row, central
section, and below: Large number of dancing templeattendants. — Bottom
row, to the left: representations of the god Bes (p. cxxvii). The right
compartment of the case contains ﬁgures of animals.

Case 0. In the two top rows: Vessels of various shapes. Third row:
Lamps in the shape of altars, houses, etc. Fourth row: 318. Lamp, with
medallion in relief representing a Nile scene in a grotesque manner; cari-
cature ﬁgures in a boat, with water-fowl and lotus-plants.

Case D. Vases, bowls, goblets, bottles, and ewers of coloured glass,
some reticulated with glass—threads; a few moulded. No. 330 has an en-
graved design.

Case E. Top row: Zeus, Athena, Isis. - Fourth and fifth rows: Genre
ﬁgures: Girl reading a book; priests carrying the sacred boat or an altar;
peasant on a mule; sitting slave, etc.

