to Suez. TELL EL—MASKHﬁTA. 13.1mm. 163

1876, is in great part a restoration of an earlier canal, dating from the
14th cent. B. C. This ancient canal, beginning at Bubastis, watered the
land of Goshen with its branches, and entering the Bitter Lakes, changed
their character, according to Strabo, and connected them with the Red
Sea. The channel of the 01d canal, which was re-discovered by the French
expedition of 1798, is still traceable at places, and its direction has fre-
quently been followed by the engineers of M. de Lesseps. From the not
inconsiderable remains of the old canal near Belbes, it appears to have
been about 50 yds. (100 ells, according to Strabo) 1n width, and 16-17% ft.
in depth. The somewhat steep banks are still strengthened at places
with solid masonry. According to Herodotus the canal was four days‘
journey, and according to Pliny 62 Roman miles, in length. In ancient
times the canal was primarily constructed for purposes of navigation,
and it is still used by numerous small barges, but it is now chieﬂy im-
portant as a channel for conducting fresh water to the towns on its banks,
particularly Isma'iliya and Suez, and as a means of irrigating and fer-
tilising the country through which it passes. Near Cairo the canal diverges
from the Nile to the N. of the Kasr en-Nll, and thence traces to the N. E.
the boundary between the Arabian plateau (on the right) and the land
of Goshen (on the left). To the E. of Abu Hammad it is joined by the
Balzr el- Mﬁsu, a branch- canal coming from Zakazik, and runs to the E.
through the dei Tamildt, which is over 30 M. in length. At Nefz‘sheh
(see below) the canal forks, the S. arm leads to Suez, while the N. arm
leads to Port Said.

The Goshen of the Bible (Egyptian Gosem) is ﬁrst mentioned in the
Book of Genesis, xlv. 10, where Pharaoh says to Joseph: — ‘And thou
shalt dwell in the land of Goshen, and thou shalt be near unto me, thou,
and thy children, and thy children‘s children, and thy ﬂocks, and thy
herds, and all that thou hast‘. Menti‘on is also made of Goshen in Genesis
xlvi. 28, 29, and xlvii, 5, 6, 27. Exodus 1.11 mentions the cities in
Goshen in which the Israelites were compelled to work at the tasks im‘
posed on them by Pharaoh: —‘Therefore they did set over them task-
masters to afﬂict them with their burdens. And they built for Pharaoh
treasure-cities, Pithom and Raamses‘ (see below). Goshen lay in the
Egyptian nome of Arabia, the capital of which was Per-Sopt (the Phukusa
of the Greeks), identified with the ruins discovered by Naville near the
modern Safl el-Henneh. Goshen may therefore be located in the triangle
between Zakazik, Beles, and Abu Hammad.

62 M. Tell el- Keblr, an insigniﬁcant place, noted as the scene
of‘Arabi’s defeat by the British troops in 1882. On leaving Tell
el-Kebir the train passes a cemetery laid out by the English, with a
tasteful monument to the British soldiers who fell in the struggle
with ‘Arabi. — 711/; M. Kasasin (Kassassine). — 76 M. Mahsameh.

The neighbouring ruins of Tell el—Maskhma probably mark the site 01
the Pithom (Egypt. Per-Alum, i.e. ‘house of the god Atum’) 0f the Bible,
where the Jews served in hard bondage and built treasure«cities (or
storehouses) for Pharaoh (Exod. i. 11), The spot has been explored for
the Egypt Exploration Fund by Naville, who discovered among the
temple-buildings several grain—stores, in the form of deep, rectangular
chambers Without doors, into which the corn was poured from above
These perhaps date from the time of Ramses 11., and may possibly be
the actual ‘storehouses‘ of the Bible.

821/2 M. Abu Suwér — 90 M. Nefisheh is the junction for the
line to Suez (p.164). As we approach Isma‘iliya the blue Lake
Timsdlz (p.170) presents a beautiful and striking contrast to the
desert just traversed, especially if some large sea-going steamer
happens to be passing, with its masts overtopping the low houses
of the town.

11*

