58 Route 4. CAIRO. 3. 8.-E. Quarters.

leika, by'Jami, written in 940 (1533), with full~page illustrations. —- 12.
Ghazals (8vo), written in 985 H. by Mohammed Hosemi, specimens .of whose
handwriting are also preserved in the British Museum; the binding [is
probably later. This copy was formerly in the possession of the Sbah Fath
‘Ali (d. 1834). — 13. Three examples (1054) of Mihr at Mushtari, a poem by
Assdr (8th cent. H.), with title-picture, full-page illustrations, and ﬁne
binding (8vo). — 14. ﬁzfdt al~‘dshik (8vo), written by Mir ‘Ali in 929, with
two title-pictures and interlinear ornamentation. -— Cosmography of Kdz-
MM (1567), with diagrams in the E. Asiatic style. —:Astronomical Workgof
1633, with ﬁgures in the same style.

Among the small books known as Seft‘na (‘ship‘) from their oblong
sbape, No. 20 should be noticed: a work numbered as ‘Adab 120‘, with
charming ornamentation between the lines and on the margins. — 21-23.
Albums. One (folio) with 15 leaves was prepared for the Shah rAbbé‘ts the
Great (d. 1628) in the genuine Indian taste, with brilliant colouring (bath-
ing—scenes, girls swinging, elephant-hunt, etc); another (8vo), also with
15 leaves, shows portraits, domestic scenes, battles, the Dutch ﬂeet in
Persian waters, etc., the third (also 8vo) has 75 leaves of Persian, Indian,
Turkish, and European portraits and miscellaneous scenes. —— The collec-
tion of Book Bindings, in diﬁ‘erent styles, is interesting.

In the SECOND LATERAL Room are Turkish Miniatures, which resemble
the Persian works but are artistically inferior. In this case also the period
of decline begins in the 17th century. — The example of the Kuddt Ku
Bilik, the ﬁrst work of Turkish literature in the Arabic character, is unique.
—— 6. Chronicle of the Osman empire. by Rdshid, in small folio with ex-
cellent portraits of the sultans in regal attire from Orkhan (1325) to Sule-
man II. (1687). The portraits of the subsequent sultans were not exe-
cuted. — An interesting series of volumes contains representations of types
and costumes from all parts of the Turkish Empire in the ﬁrst half of the
19th century. — To the left are Turkish Bindings, very inferior to those
of Arabia and Persia. -— Among the other curiosities exhibited here are
papyri of the 1st-2nd cent. of the Hegira; copies of the books ﬁrst printed
in Constantinople (1728) and Cairo (1822) g a selection of printed works from
all Mohammedan countries, from Morocco to China.

The THIRD LATERAL ROOM contains materials for a palaeographic ex-
hibition, autographs, important dated MSS., etc., illustrating the history
of Arabic writing. The most ancient Neskhi MS. in Cairo, a juristic text,
dates from the 3rd cent. of the Hegira (9th cent.).

An adjoining Room, to the left of the entrance, contains examples of
calligraphy, some exhibiting marvellous dexterity.

After visiting the library the traveller may inspect the former
Dervish Monastery of Teklctyeh es-Sultc’tn Mabmad or Teklc’z‘yeh Hab-
ban’z‘yeh (Pl. D, 5), which lies at the entrance of the Shari'a el-Hab-
baniyeh. The monastery was erected in the Turkish-Arabian style
about the middle of the 18th cent. by Mustafa Agha, vizier of Sultan
Selim, and is now occupied by students of the Mosque of Azhar (p. 43).
The most interesting object in the establishment is the sebil, with
its projecting rotunda and elaborate facade, its projecting blinds,
and the coloured marble and porcelain embellishment in the in-
terior. The building possesses a large court, raised considerably
above the street, and containing a few trees. Around the court are
the cells of the students, and adjoining it is a small mosque.

The Shari‘a el-Habbaniyeh, called farther on Shdri'a Bt‘zb el-
Khallc, ends at the Shdri’a Moltammed rAli, not far from the small
square of Bdb el—Khallc (p. 49).

