218

20. Abydos.

The ordinary traveller, especially when he has at his disposal only
the 8 hrs. allowed by the steamer, will conﬁne himself to the Temple of
Sethos I. and the sadly dilapidated Temple of Ramses 11., with possihly a.
visit to the old fortress of Shanet ez-Zebib. The other antiquities are
uninteresting. — Fair donkeys, with European saddles, may he ohtained
at the railway- s-tation of Belianeh (p. 191, 3- 4.1..)

Abydos lies about 81/2 M. from Belianeh, a ride of 11/2 hr. The
track crosses several canals, passes through the hamlet of el-Hegs,
traverses a fertile district dotted with numerous villages, and ﬁnally
leads over part of the Libyan Desert. Fine view of the mountain-
chain running towards the Nile. The ancient Abydos, the sacred
city of the Egyptians, lay on the verge of the arable land, and ex-
tended from rArdbat or ‘Arébat el—Mad/‘dneh (Le. rbnried rAraba') to
e1—Kherbeh(_p. 224).

Abydos (Egypt. Abotu) was one of the most ancient cities in Egypt and
played an important role in the religion of the country. For here was
the famous grave of Osiris, in which the head of the god was traditionally
believed to be buried in a casket. Just as the Shi'ite Mohammedan
cherishes no dearer wish than to he buried near the tomb of Hosen of Ker-
hela (p. 42‘), so the pious Egyptian, from the days of the Ancient Empire,
desired no hetter fortune than to have his corpse carried to Ahydos, there
to find its last abode heside the tomb of Osiris. Those who were unahle
to do this, or who had huilt tombs elsewhere, often caused their mummies
to he hrought temporarily to Ahydos, to receive the desired consecration
and to spend some time at least with Osiris. Many contented themselves
with merely erecting a memorial stone in the necropolis, therehy assuring
to themselves the favour of Osiris, the lord of the underworld. — The
chief god of Ahydos was of course Osiris; hut his wife Isis, his son Horns,
and, under the New Empire, Ptah, Harmachis, and Ammon7 with other
deities, were also worshipped there. — Straho gives an interesting account
of Abydos: ‘Above it (Ptolemai‘s) lies Ahydos, the site of the Memnom‘um,
a wonderful palace of stone, built in the manner of the Lahyrinth, only
somewhat less elahorate in its complexity. Below the Memnonium is a
spring, reached hy passages with low vaults consisting of a single stone
and distinguished for their extent and mode of construction. This spring
is connected with the Nile hy a canal, which flows through a grove of
Egyptian thorn- acacias, sacred to Apollo. Ahydos seems once to have been
a large city, second only to Thebes, but now it is a small place, etc.
This spring may perhaps have heen a Nilometer. Ammianus Marcellinus
speaks of the oracle of the god Bes, which ﬂourished here.

The most important part of ancient Abydos was its extensive
Necropolis, situated in the desert. Four distinct sections are clearly
traceable. In the southernmost, beside 'Araba, are tombs of the New
Empire and the temples of Sethos and Ramses. To the N. of this
rises a hill, with graves dating from the close of the Ancient Empire.
Still farther to the N.. between the shrine of Osiris and the fortress
of Shﬁnet ez—Zebib (p. 224), are the tombs of the Middle Empire,
many in the form of small brick—pyramids. Here also are found
graves of the 18—20th Dyn. and of the later period. Finally, in the
hill of Umm el—Ga‘ab, to the W., are the tombs of the kings of the
earliest dynasties. —— The chief centre of interest is the —

*Temple of Sethos I., the Memnom'um of Strabo. This won-
derful structure, built by Sethos I. and completed by Ramses 11., was

