LAKE MENZALEI-I. 14. Route. 169

300 yds. to the N. of it, on the pier, is a colossal statue of Ferdinand
de Lesseps (p. 166), by the French sculptor E. Fre‘miet, unveiled
on Nov. 17th, 1899, thirty years after the opening of the Suez Calla],
his great achievement.

The Inner Harbour, or Bassin Isma'll, is adjoined by three
sheltered basins in which vessels discharge and load; viz. the com—
mercial harbour and the arsenal harbour (on each side of the hand-
some buildings of the Canal Co.), and the ‘Bassin Che’rif’. The last
is ﬂanked with buildings erected by Prince Henry of the Nether—
lands as a depot for the Dutch trade; on his death [1879) they were
purchased by the British government and are now used as a military
depot and barracks (Pl. 9}.

The Arab Quarter and the Cemetery lie to the W. (tramway,
p. 168). The tombs are constructed in the form of vaults of masonry
above ground, as the soil is saturated with salt water at a depth of
2 ft. below the surface.

Ferry-boats (fare 10 pias.) across Lake Menzaleh to Dumr‘etla (p. 160)
start from the 3rd kilometre 0n the Suez Canal, which may be reached
on donkey-back or by rowing-boat.

The numerous masts in the harbour of Port Sa'id remain in sight
long after we quit that town. The Canal, on the W. bank of which
runs the steam-tramway to Isma'iliya (p. 164), is constructed in a
perfectly straight line through Lake Menzaleh. The brackish waters
of this lake extend over an area of about 1000 sq. M., covering what
was once one of the most fertile districts in Egypt, and was inter-
sected by the three most important arms of the Nile (p. li) in an—
cient times, the Pelusiac, the Tanitic, and the Mendesian. Among
the numerous towns and villages situated here were the important
cities of Tanis and Tennis. Immense ﬂocks of pelicans and silver
herons, some ﬂamingoes, and a few herds of buffaloes are to be met
with here. The operation of draining the lake has been begun, the
part adjoining the Canal on the E. is already dry. — Rés el—‘Esh
(16th kilométre) is the ﬁrst station.

Lake Menzaleh ends at (271/2 M.) El—Kantara (‘the bridge’), an
isthmus separating it from Lake Balah. Over this isthmus led the
ancient caravan route from Egypt to Syria. The steam—tramway to
Port Sa'id (p. 164) has a station here, near Which are several restau—
rants. The village, with its mosque, lies on the Asiatic bank of the
canal. The hill to the left commands a tolerable survey of the

environs.

About 11/2 M. from lgantara, a little to the S. of the old caravan road,
lies the hill of Tell Abu Séfeh, with the ruins of a temple of Ramses II.
and remains of the Ptolemaic and Roman periods. —— A moderate day‘s
journey (on camels) from Kantara are situated the ruin-strewn Tell Fardma
and Tell el-Faglqla, occupying the site of Pelusium, the celebrated eastern
seaport and key to Egypt, which now contains no objects of interest. —
rI‘he mounds of debris named Tell Defenneh (‘treasure-hills"), situated to
the N. of the caravan route between Es-Salihiyeh (p. 156) and El-Kantara,
at the ancient Pelusiac mouth of the Nile, contain the remains of a camp
of the Greek mercenaries of Psammetikh I. These were excavated in

