384 Route 36‘. BERBER.

for the Nile ﬂotilla were put together here. A hospital and work-
shops still lend the place some importance.

364 M. Berber (El-Meshérif; quarters, if required, at the house
of the agent Lo'isos), formerly the capital of the province of Berber,
was destroyed during the Mahdist rebellion, but is gradually re-
covering its importance. The banks of the Nile here are exceedingly
fertile, but \ery scantily populated. though the government actively
encourages the settlement of peasant proprietors. Berber is noted
for riding-camels, leathern goods (Ly. red shoes), camel—saddles
(makhlufa), water-skins, saddle—bags7 and saddle-blankets. The
Sudan salt prepared here circulates throughout all Central Africa as
an article of barter, in the form of small brown cones. -— 363 M.
Berber South is another railway—station to the S. of the town.

A caravan-route leads 1mm Berber to (260 M.) .Suui'in, on the Red Sea,
a journey of 7-12 days.

The following portion of the railway-line is frequently damaged
by violent rain—storms in late summer. Trafﬁc is sometimes in-
terrupted for weeks or even months, a fact that adds considerably
to the difﬁculty of provisioning the garrison at Khartum. — At
(385 )1.) Atbara the line is carried by an iron bridge over the river
Atbara (p. xlix), the channel of which is dry from April to June.

392 M. El-Damer lies to the S. of the junction of the Atbara
and the Nile. In the neighbourhood are the remains of Kitchener's
fortiﬁed camp (1997-98), whence he attacked the Emir Mahmud,
who was strongly posted on the Atbala. The victory of April 8th,
1898, opened the way for a farther ad\ant'e to the Sudz'.n.

From El—Damer a caravan-route leads to Gos-Rejab and (6 days)
Kassala, to which there is a postal service.

403,“. Zédab. The scenery now assumes a savannah—like char-
acter, with a thick bushy undergrowth, interrupted by pleasant open
glades and intersected by the usually dry brds of ‘Khors’ or moun-
tain-torrents. Game is abundant, including gazelles, hyaenas, hares,
guinea-fowl, and bustards. —— 4‘29 M. Mukhmi‘r; 446 .\l. Hamada.

Not far from the line, on the E. bank near the village of Begerawiyeh,
are the ruins of ZIIe-roP', the later capital of the Ethiopian monarchs; and
about 3 M. inland are three groups of pyramids belonging to it. Like
the earlier pyramids of Napata (p. 383), these Meroi'tic pyramids are distin-
guished by their slender form. Many of them are still adjoined on the E.
by mortuary temples, decorated within and without with religious reliefs
in the peculiar Egypto-Ethiopian style and covered with hieroglyphic
inscriptions. The pylon-shaped entrances'to the temples are usually em-
bellished, after the Egyptian fashion, with ﬁgures of kings grasping their
foes by the hair and smiting them with the sword.

470 M. Shendi, one of the principal towns in the ancient Fungi
empire, is an industrial centre of some importance, with cotton-
factories, dyeing-works, leather-works, and iron-works. There are
numerous shops kept by Greeks (tinned and bottled goods, groceries,
etc.). The Shékiyeh Arabs carry on trade in senna (Cassia obovata)
and dates. — On the left bank, opposite Shendi, lies Metemmeh,

