to Abu-Simbel. DERR. 33. Route. 367

roof was supported by 12 square pillars in three rows. The back
row has colossal statues of Ramses II. against the pillars, while the
two front rows are now represented only by fragments a few feet in
herght. Only the lower portion of the walls, the reliefs on which
were of hrstorical importance, is now standing.

. 0n the left (NJ half of the Entrance Wall are traces of warlike scenes
w1th_char10ts and warriors. —- On the Right (W) Wall are scenes from the
Nubian campaign _of the king. In the upper row we see Ramses II. in his
chariot accompanied by a lion, conducting a group of captives before the
god; .adJacent the king sacriﬁces to Ammon—Re. The lowest row shows
the k1ng in his chariot launching arrows against his ﬂeeing foes. We see
the fugitives conveying their wounded to the mountains, where a herds-
man 5 family, surrounded by their cattle, wait in grief and anxiety. To
the left are Egyptian soldiers with negro captives. -— On the Left (19-)
Wall also are remains of several reliefs (from left to right): 1. Captives
led before the king; 2. The king in battle; 3. The king ﬁghting on foot;
ll. The king leads two rows of captives before R’é-Harmachis, in whose
temple they are to be slaves. Above, the king appears before Atnm. —
Rear (6.) Wall. To the left of the door leading into the next room
appears the king grasping a group of enemies and smiting them with his
club, while the king‘s lion seizes a foe by the leg, and the hawk-headed
Harmachis hands the king the sickle-shaped sword; to the right the king
presents an image of Maat to the ram-headed Khnum. At the foot of the
Wall_are princes with their fans. To the right of the d00r is the king
snorting his enemies in presence of Ammon-Re; to the left, above, the
k1ng offers wine to Ptah and another god, below, he offers incense to
Thout. At the foot of the wall is a row of daughters of Ramses 11., with
their sistra.

The following SMALL HYPo STYLE HALL, almost square, is entirely
hewn out of the rock. The roof rests upon six pillars, on which are re-
liefs of the king before various deities. On the W. Wall Ramses offers
incense before the sacred boat of Ré-Harmachis, carried by priests.
On the E. Wall is a similar scene. The other reliefs are of no special
interest. — The middle door of the rear-wall leads into the SANC-
TUARY; those to the right and left admit to smaller apartments. Four
seated ﬁgures (in poor preservation) of the gods worshipped in the
temple occupy the rear-wall of the sanctuary, 1713:. (from left to right)
Ptah, Ammon-Ré, the king, and Ré-Harmachis with the hawk’s head.
— In the Christian period this temple also was used as a church.

On the hill-slope to the E. of the temple are a ruined Egyptian tomb,
a small rocky recess dedicated to Amenemheb in the reign of Ramses 11.,
inseriptions of the Middle and New Empires, and grafﬁti of ships,
giraﬁ"es7 etc. At the entrance of the valley through which leads the road
to the well of Murhad ,__; a small and ancient recess, in which a ﬁre is now
maintained in honour of Shekh Issu, Who is buried beneath. —-— To the
W. of the temple are nine shallow rock-recesses, some Coptic graves, and
an ancient cistern.

Beyond Derr the Nile valley again turns to the S.W. On the
W. bank lies Tomds, to which the adjacent large and well-cultivated
island belongs. The hills on the E. bank approach close to the
stream. — 15 M. Tenlcc‘zleh (E. bank) and 'Aﬁeh (W. bank). — 20 M.
Katteh. On the opposite (W.) bank lies the ruined castle of Gamnok,
a Byzantine brick ediﬁce on a substructure of sandstone. To the S.
of it are the ruins of an ancient town.

