312 Route 26‘. ssh-rum. From Lamar

dedicated to Nekhbet, ‘mistress of Re-yant’ (5.6. of the entrance to
the desert-valley). It consists of a ruined Vestibule of the Ptolemaic
period, with papyrus-columns (the capitals of which strew the
ground), and of a Chamber, the roof of which was borne by four six-
teen-sided columns embellished with heads of Hathor.

The names of the king, Ammon, and Nekhbet, several representations
of the gods, and the face of the king were defaced under Amenophis IV.
and restored under Sethos I. — On the Entrance Door of the chamber are a
votive inscription and a representation of Amen0phis III. The exterior
walls have no reliefs, but inscriptions and paintings (ships) were placed
upon them at a later date; to the right of the door is Kha—em-weset, in
presence of Ramses II., his father, in commemoration of the king’s ﬁfth
jubilee, in the 111st year of his reign. Another hieroglyphic inscription
here is certainly the latest found in Egypt: ‘In the 13th year of his majesty,
lord of the world, Napoleon III.‘ On the pavement outside the chapel
representations of foot-prints have been scratched by pilgrims (p. 311).

The representations within the Chamber have retained their colouring
in good condition. On each side of the entrance, Amenophis III. and his
father Thutmosis IV. seated at banquet-tables. Left Wall. Amenophis III.
sacriﬁcing to the sacred boat, which is decorated with hawks‘ heads
added at a later period; Amenophis III. presenting incense and water to
Nekhbet, Ammon (blue) embracing the king and holding the hieroglyph
for ‘life’ before the king‘s face, Rear Wall. On each side of the recess,
Amenophis III. sacriﬁcing to Nekhhet. Right Wall. The hawk—headed Horus
handing the hieroglyph for ‘life’ to the king who stands before him; the
king presenting two wine-jars to Nekhbet; the king sacrificing to the
sacred boat. Adjacent are demotic inscriptions in red, written by visitors
to the chapel. 'lhe names of Amenophis alternating with heads of Hathor
are arranged as a frieze in this hall and as an embellishment on the
architrave; at the base of the walls are bulls in a marsh.

At this little temple we turn, direct our steps towards the Nile,
and in 1/4 hr. reach the ROCK TEMPLE, on the right side of the val-
ley, recognizable from a distance by the Stair leading up to it. The
latter consists of 41 steps hewn in the rock, with a massive bal—
ustrade on each side. The temple was constructed under Ptolemy IX.
Euergetes II. (Physkon), and provided with reliefs and inscriptions
by him and by Ptolemy X. Soter II.

On reaching the platform at the top of the stair, we pass through a
doorway to a Vestibule, not quite 33 ft. wide, which was supported by
columns with elaborate ﬂoral capitals, while the exterior sides were
bounded by low walls built between columns. Thence another door, the
right half of which is still standing, leads into a smaller Hall (only 19 ft.
wide), which also was bounded by low walls between columns. The ﬂoor
is c0vered with ruins. The door leading to the ROCK CHAMBER opened at
the back of this hall. This chamber, which was originally a tomb
chamber dating from the New Empire, has a vaulted ceiling, with vultures
hovering in the centre. At the top of the walls is a frieze made of the
name of Ptolemy X. between heads of Hathor. Below are inscriptions
and much injured representations of the king and queen before various
deities. This sanctuary also was especially dedicated to Nekhhet.

On an isolated hill, about 1 M. from the steamboat landing-place,
are a number of *ROCK TOMBS, placed side by side on the S. slope.
Most of these date from the end of the Middle Empire or from the
beginning of the New Empire. There are 31 tombs in all, but only
6 repay a visit.

These tombs, hewn side by side in the rock, are, like all the monu-
ments at el-Kab, of small dimensions, but their distinct pictures of an-

