202 Route 18. Diet: EN—NAKIILMI. 17mm Cairo

Bersheh, in the step sides'of which are numerous tombs of the Early
and Middle Empires and also several quarries. The valley is chieﬂy
noted for the rock-tombs in its N. slope, constructed under the
Middle Empire by the princes ofthe ‘nome of hares’. which in-
cluded this region. The only one of these that need be vi~ited is —

Toms ‘2, belonging to Thuti-hotep, son of Kai, prince of the
nome in the reigns of Amenemhét II. and Usertesen II. and III.
We ascend the path ascending the hill to the left at the mouth of
the valley, but before reaching the top diverge to the right by
another path. This tomb is constructed in exactly the same way
as the tombs at Beuihasan. The Vestibule, originally supported by
two palm-columns, has been destroyed. A door leads hence to the
Tomb Chamber, the walls of which were embellished with reliefs,
now partly destroyed. On the Left Wall is a scene representing
the transportation of a colossal statue of the decreased, from the
quarries of Het—nub (p. 210) to a temple. The inscription in-
forms us that the statue was of alabaster and 13 ells (‘21 ft.) in
ln-ight. It is securely fastened with ropes upon a wooden sledge,
which is drawn by four rows with 43 workmen in each (17?. in all).
A priest precedes the statue scattering incense. On the prow of the
sled stands a man pouring water on the ground to prevent the heavily
loaded sled from taking ﬁre by friction; and on the lap of the ﬁgure
is another man clapping his hands, probably the le .der and time-
giver of the song of the workmen, whose task was facilitated by
rhythmical movement. Below are other workmen carrying water and
a beam, and behind the statue are foremen and other ofﬁcials. At
the top are companies of people with branches in their hands,
hastening to meet the procession. To the extreme left stands Thuti-
hotep, followed by his body-guard, observing the unusual spectacle.
—— To the right is a representation of the entrance to the temple
intended for the statue, and named "‘he p0pularity of Thuti-hotep
remains in the Hare Nome’. — Beneath this scene the deceased
appears again beside a fowling—net; to the right he sits upon a
canopied throne and inspects his ships and herds.

The representations on the other walls of this tomb are much in-
jured. Bear Wall. At the to]: of the left half are the deceased and his
son drawing a fowling~netg in the second row is a ﬁshing scene; in the
three next rows cranes and geese are being fattened, ﬁsh are being pre-
pared, and geese, plucked and hung upon poles, are being slaughtered;
in the lowest row are servants bearing ﬁsh and other food. On the right
half appears the deceased receiving the ﬁsh and fowl that have been
captured. Right Wall. Various industries carried on on the estate of the
deceased are here shown: tillage, potters, vintage, vine-treading; below
are the daughter of the deceased, smelling lotus-flowers, and his body-
guard; also four men carrying a litter. — Four- steps lead hence to the

Chamber in which stood the deceased‘s statue; on the rear-wall of this
are the deceased and his father Kai, facing each other.

Below the rock—tombs are Tombs of the Ancient Empire, Shaft
Tombs of the Middle Empire, and numerous tombs of the Ptolemaic
period, all_of which, however, have been opened. Opposite, on the

