Eastern Desert. Bit: 'AMBAR. 30. Route. 345

lie a temple and other buildings, and some large columns and Greek
inscriptions have been found in the quarries. About two days’ jour—
ney farther to the N. is Gebel Dukhkhdn (‘smoke mountain’), the an-
cient porphyry quarries of which were worked by the Romans. Here
are the ruins of an Ionic temple of the time of Trajan (never com-
pleted), some remains of an irregularly built town, and two large
water—reservoirs. We follow the ancient route hence to Abu Shar
el-Ka‘bli. The harbour of Myos Hormos has been silted up and is
now useless.

The JOURNEY TO Kosl‘sn (there and back {10-11 days at least)
is more interesting. It may also be made from Kuft (p. 231) or
Luxor (comp. p. 346). The route from Keneh leads ﬁrst through
the villages of Shékh Rekdb, Domeh, and Kém 'Imrz‘m, the ﬁrst 011
the left, the other two on the right side of the road. The ﬁrst night
is generally spent at the caravanserai of Bir rAmber, about 31/2 hrs.
from I_{eneh, where the lofty palms and shady sycamores and mimosae
offer a most inviting halting—place. The large caravanserai was
erected at the expense of an Ibrahim Pasha and comprises several
separate buildings, covered with dome-shaped roofs and surrounded
by courts and colonnades.

On the second day we advance steadily, ascending almost imper-—
ceptibly, through a monotonous plain, intersected in all directions
by small undulating heights. All around us extends the inter-
minable yellowish—gray, sun-bleached rocks of the desert; not a
trace of organic life is visible. not a single green tree or shrub. At
the hill of el-Karn (‘the horn’), which rises to the left of the cara-
van—route, about midway between Bir ‘Ambar and Lakéta, the road
from Keneh is joined by those from Kuft and Luxor. The only
variety is afforded by an occasional Mabwala or Maltatta. The Mab-
walas are simply spaces covered with camel’s dung. They occur on
every great caravan route at regular intervals and are of the utmost
importance as sign—posts showing the road. The Mahattas or halt-
ing-places are 71/2-9 M. apart and serve also as measures of distance.
The Kosér caravans usually pass the second night in the village of
Lakéta (el-Gheta; 9 hrs. from Kuft and Bir ‘Ambar, 121/2 hrs. from
Keneh), which is chieﬂy inhabited by ‘Ababdeh (p. 329). The small
oasis has two wells, ﬁve palms, a few mud-huts, and a half-ruined
Arab caravanserai. Mutton, goat’s ﬂesh, poultry, pigeons, eggs, etc.,
may be obtained here. Near the chief well are some fragments of a
Greek inscription of the reign of Tiberius Claudius.

The ﬁrst Roman station, the Hydreuma, now called by the Arabs
Kugr el—Bendt (‘castle of the maidens’), is 3 hrs. to the S. of Lakéta.
It forms an oblong 1‘25 ft. in length and 101 ft. in breadth. The
wall inclosing the oblong, formed of layers of sandstone Without
cement, was 61/2 ft. high. Within the wall lie 20 small chambers
opening on a rectangular inner court, the only exit from which is
on the N. side. No water is now procurable here. To the N. of the

