TempteofAmmon. THEBEs(Ic.BANK). 24.Roule. 247

the left, stands the small TEMPLE or SETHOS 11., built of grey sand-
stone, except beside the three doors, where a reddish quartzose
sandstone has been used. The temple has three chapels, of which
that in the centre, dedicated to Ammoil, and that on the left, ded-
icated to Mut, are ﬁlled with rubbish. The third (right) chapel is
that of Khons; on the walls the king sacriﬁces to the boat of Khons,
which is decorated with hawks’ heads, and appears before Ammon,
Mut, and Khons.

Farther on, in the central axis of the court, are two large
Pedestals for statues (that on the right retains its base only). Behind
was a Colonnaded Structure,- of the original ten columns there still
stand ﬁve broken shafts on the left side, and one complete column
(with calyx-capital and abacus) on the right. This structure had
a door on each of its four sides; in front of the W. door is a re-
cumbent Sphinx.

Upon the complete column Psammetikh 11., of the 26th Dyn, has placed
his name over that of the Ethiopian Taharka, of the 25th Dyn.; beside
it is the name of Ptolemy IV. Philopator, which also appears on the
abacus. The shaft is composed of 36 courses of carefully hewn stone, the
capital of 5 courses. The height is 69 ft.; the greatest breadth of the
capital 16 ft., the circumference at the top 49 ft. The columns were united
by means of balustrades, dating from the reign of Philopator.

A door in the N. walk of the colonnade surrounding the great court
leads out of the temple. In its vicinity are a number of Krio-Sphinxes
placed close together, which were stored here in antiquity.

To the right, facing the great court, is the TEMPLE 0F RAMSES 111.,
which was exhumed and cleared of rubbish in 1896-97 by the public
department in charge of the antiquities. It is dedicated to Ammon,
and is perhaps the best extant specimen of a simple Egyptian
temple, built throughout on a single homogeneous plan. Its total
length is 170 ft.

The Pylon with the entrance-door is much injured, especially at
the top. On the exterior of the left tower (E) Ramses III., wearing
the double crown, holds a band of prisoners by the hair and raises
his club for a blow. Ammon, standing in front of him, hands him
the sword of victory, and delivers to him chained together the re-
presentatives of the vanquished peoples, who appear in three rows.
In the two upper rows are the conquered nations of the south, in
the third row those of the north. On the right wing are similar
representations, the king here wearing the crown of Lower Egypt.
In the doorway, Ramses III. receives from Ammon the symbol of
life, etc.

Beyond the pylon is an open Com-t, surrounded on three sides
by covered passages. The roofs of the passages at the sides are each
supported by eight Osiris-pillars (p. cxxxiii), while on the terrace
at the back are four similar pillars and four columns with bud-
capitals. The pillars are united by balustrades adorned with
reliefs.

On the side of the W. pylon-tower facing the court is a representation
ofIRamses III. receiving from a throned Ammon the hieroglyphic for

