Museum. ALEXANDRIA. 2. Route. 17

sad in black basalt. — In frames on the right wall: 18-22. Remains of
all-paintings found near P0mpey‘s_ Pillar, interesting as forerunners and
aalogies of the Pompeian style, 8. Tomb-paintings from Grabburi., showing
mixture of the Greek and Egy tian styles.

Room XII. In the middle: . Marble statue of Emp. Antoninus Pius
ross on the armour added in the Christian period and again eﬂ'aced as
.r as possible); 7. Julia Soémias, a good portrait. — Case 6. Coptic cloth
‘om Akhmim. — Case F. Small altars in limestone, and cinerary urns in
abaster. — Case B. ‘Menas ﬂasks", for holding the consecrated oil from
le tomb of St. Menas the martyr, wooden tickets for attaching to
.ummies, with name of deceased; below, Coptic ostraca.

Room XIII. 1. Statue of an emperor-7 ‘3. Small temple—tomb from
adra. —. 4-7. Draped statues (N0. 5 from Gabbari).

Room XIV. To the left, sepulchral vases from Gabbari. The large clay
assels from Hadra served as coffins; they were covered with lids and lay
)rizontally in the earth. — To the right, portrait-heads of the Roman period.

Room XV. 1. Recumbent tomb-ﬁgure of a corpulent Roman, from
nbbari. — 29, 50. Frescoes from tombs at Grabbari. — Fine architectural
agments and altars from Gabbari, all in the soft limestone of Meks. —

*3. Coloured capitals from a Ptolemaic palace, No. 3 showing a mixture
' the Greek and Egyptian styles.

Room XVI (from left to right). Cinerary urns and coloured architectural
agments from lfIadra and Grabbari. Tombstones from the same places,
ith ﬁgures of women, etc. — 9. Granite capital of the Ptolemaic period.
- =I). Marble head of Antoninns Pius. —- ”H. Marble torso from Grabbari.
- =“i‘J. Marble head of Hercules, with hair separately worked. — L. Fine
trk-blue glass, with veins ofyellow and White. — In the middle: 4. Colossal
:ad of a Ptolemy with the Egyptian double crown (in red granite, from
amleh). — Green-glazed fayence from a tomb at Gabbari. —— 7. Votive
script-ion to Isis by an Alexandrian military ofﬁcial, mentioning the
unicipal Quarter B.

In the Garden are a number of larger monuments, including lime-
one and porphyry sarcophagi, fragments of Greek columns, ared granite
cup of Ramses II. and his daughter (from Abulgir), etc.

Mr. Eduard Friedheim, in the British consulate-building, Rue de
, Gare de Ramleh 27, possesses a collection of ancient and modern
aintings, water-colours, and engravings, and also a few ancient
aads in marble, which he courteously shows to strangers on previous
gplication. — Mr. Constantine Sinadino, near the Porte de Rosette,
so owns a ﬁne collection of small works of ancient art.

3. ENVIRONS 0F ALEXANDRIA.

A pleasant DRIVE (carr, p. 5) may be taken as follows. Turn-
lg to the right outside the Porte de Rosette (Pl. K, 3), leaving the
yuropean cemeteries to the left, and avoiding the road which leads
1 a straight direction to Ramleh, we pass the water-works on the
:ft at the Rand-Point (Pl. K, 3), cross a small mound of ancient
1bbish, and reach the Mahmﬁdiyeh Canal (p. 11). We turn to the
.ft and drive along the canal to the ﬁne garden belonging to Sir
)hn Antoniades, a rich Greek merchant, which is open to the public.
here is a rock-tomb in the part of the garden behind the house;
1e tomb-chambers, with three rows of cofﬁn-niches in their walls,
:e reached by a long staircase. — Retracing our steps, and following
1e bank of the canal, which lies on the left, we observe on the right

long succession of villas and gardens, including the viceregal

BAEDEKER‘s Egypt. 5th Ed. 2

