of“ Gizeh. SECOND PYRAMID. 6‘. Route. 121

wn to the middle of the 17th cent. and of which a considerable
.gment still remains at the top, consisted of limestone slabs in the
per courses and of partially unpolished granite slabs in the lower
ell preserved on the W. side). The merit of having opened this
ramid belongs to Belzoni (p. 116). An inscription over the

trance records that the opening took place on March 2nd, 1818.
The plan of the Second Pyramid also appears to have been altered
the course of building. The original intention seems to have been to
ct a small pyramid over the subterranean chamber (which was never
ad). Afterwards a larger pyramid was decided upon and the chambers
ved towards the S., to their present position.

  

4-47 1/2 PF

  

 

The Interior is thus entered by two passages on the N. side. The mouth
one of these, blocked up on the abandonment of the ﬁrst plan, is in the
el surface in front of the Pyramid, and was concealed by the pavement
. d); that of the other is on the N. side of the Pyramid itself, now 38 ft.,
tformerly 49 ft. above the level of the ground (P1. a). This Upper Passage,
ich was lined with granite at the beginning, descends at an angle of
55' to a depth of 105 ft. (Pl. a b), leading ﬁrst to a horizontal corridOr
. b g c), and thence to ‘Belzoni‘s Chamber’, which once contained the
1b of the deceased, situated 3 ft. 10 in. to the E. of the diagonal of the
ramid. This chamber is hewn in the rock, and roofed with painted
bs of limestone leaning against each other at the same angle as that
med by the sides of the Pyramid. It is 221/2 ft. in height, 461/2 ft. in
gth from E. to W., and 161/3 ft. in width from N. to S. Belzoni here
.nd a granite sarcophagus let into the ground and ﬁlled with rubbish,
t. in height, 6 ft. 7in. in length, and 31/2 ft. in width, and destitute 0f
cription. The lid was broken, —— The Lower Passage (P1. 01) descends at
t at an angle of 21° 40', reaches a trap-door (P1. e), runs in a horizontal
ection for 59 ft. (Pl. ef), and then ascends, terminating. after a distance
97 ft. in all (Pl. 9), in the horizontal corridor leading to Belzoni‘s
amber. This ascending passage was perhaps made to permit the intro-
:tion of a broad trap-door of granite. 0n the E. (left) side of the middle
the horizontal portion of this lower passage was introduced a small

