HISTORY. lxxix

the Gebel Silsileh, and afterwards to the First Cataract. Each of
these states was subdivided into a number of small principalities,
originally independent but afterwards dependent, which still existed
in historic times as ‘nomes’ or provinces. The two Egyptian king-
doms were for a time hostile to each other. Their union seems to
have been operated from Upper Egypt and was subsequently ascribed
to King Menes. The memory of the division subsisted beyond the
dawn of the historic period; the arms of the united empire were
formed by the union of the lily and the papyrus, the symbolical
plants of Upper and Lower Egypt, the king styled himself ‘King
of Upper and Lower Egypt7 or ‘Lord of both Lands’, and wore the

double tiara (y) consisting of the White crown (d) of the S.

and the red crown y of the N.; and at the base of the temple-

walls were represented on one side the provinces of the 8., and on
the other the provinces of the N. Even in matters of administration
respect was paid to this distinction, which was farther emphasized
by the physical difft'erences of the two regions.

2. Earliest Historical Period (before 2500 B.C.).

I. and II. DYNASTIES i, said to have originated at This (p. 217)
in Upper Egypt.

Menes (Mme), the ﬁrst earthly king of Egypt, who is said to have

founded Memphis. His tomb has been discovered at Nakadeh

(p. 232); those of his immediate successors at Abydos (p. 224).

III. DYNASTY.

This dynasty originated at Memphis, where their tombs also were
situated. The most ancient mastabas date from this period.
Zoser, builder of the Step Pyramid at Sakkara (p. 134).

3. The Ancient Empire (2500—2200 B.C.).
IV. DYNASTY.

An epoch of powerful monarchs, who built the great pyramids.

Snofru, builder of the Pyramid of Meidﬁm (p. 192) and probably
also of the great pyramid at Dahshﬁr (p. 153).

Kheops or Gheops (Khufu) Builders of the three
Khephren (Khafré) great Pyramids of Gizeh
Mencheres or Mycerinus ( M enkewré) (pp. 116-122).

+ Only the most important kings of each dynasty are mentioned.
Dynasties given in full are preﬁxed by an asterisk. - The names of the
kings are here usually given in the Greek form, with the Egyptian form
in brackets. When, however, only one form is shown, the Egyptian is
preferred.

