xiii

I. Preliminary Information.

(1). Plan of Tour. Season. Expenses. Money. Equipment.
Travelling Companions.

PLAN. The facilities for travel in Egypt are 110W such that the
intending visitor may make an outline of his tour at home with
almost as great ease as for most of the countries of Europe. During
the travelling season, moreover, the weather is always ﬁne (comp.
below), and never causes disappointment and derangement of plans
as in most other countries. A glimpse of the country may be ob-
tained in four or ﬁve weeks (exclusive of the journcy out) as fol-
lows: 2-3 days may be devoted to Alexandria and the journey
thence to Cairo, 10—12 days may be spent in Cairo and its neigh—
bourhood in the manner suggested at p. 30, 3 days may be given to
the Fayam, 3-4 days may be occupied by the Suez Canal and ex—
cursions from it, and 14 days may be devoted to Upper Egypt (rail-
way to Assuan), whilc a fcw days must be set aside for resting.
The whole time, however, might very pleasantly be spent at Cairo
alone. the most interesting point in the tour.

SEAsON. The best time for a tour in Egypt is between Nov. lst
and May 1st. In Alexandria stormy and rainy weather prevails from
December to March, but in the interior of Egypt, to the S. of a
linejoining Damanhﬁr, Tanta, and Mansﬁra, the case is completely
altered. Even in the Delta, however, marked falls in temperature
(sometimes to 43° Fahr ) occur between the end of November and
the end of March, and rain-storms, rendering the roads almost im-
passable, are not infrequent. Deccmber and January are sometimes
very cold in Cairo, which is the more inconvenient as there are no
adequate heating-arrangements in the houses; but Nov., Feb., and
March are very ﬁne, as also usually are Oct., April, and May,
especially for travellers who do not object to alittle heat. In Upper
Egypt, from the beginning of November till the middle or end of
April, there are but few days of bad weather (comp. p. xxvi), the
prevalent temperature is that of a delicious spring or moderate
summer. The fertilising inundation of the Nile (p. 1) has by this
time subsided, and the Whole face of the country smiles with fresh
verdure. Thosc who intend to winter in Egypt should spend Nov.
in Cairo, move on thence in Dec., on the approach of cold weather,
to Upper Egypt (Luxor, Assuan), and return to Cairo in February.
— In summer prices are naturally much lower.

EXPENSES. The cost of a tour in Egypt, and in Oriental coun—
tries generally, is greater than that of a visit to most parts of Europe,
and the traveller should estimate his average daily expenditure at
not less than Q5—303. (Steamboat-fares are of course extra; pp. 1-4.)
The traveller whose time is very limited, or who is accompanied by

