ZAIgfiziIg. 13. Route. 161

most cases very ancient and differ materially in style from the
mushrebiyehs of Cairo. A glance into one of the ancient court-yards
is interesting. The principal street, which is upwards of 1 M.
long, forms the busy and well-stocked bazaar of the place. Damietta
contains four Christian churches.

An interesting excursion may be made to the mosque of Abul
Ma‘dtch, in the suburb of el-Gebdnch, to the N. of the town. The
building appears to date from the period of the old town of Da—
mietta, and has Cuﬁc inscriptions in front. The interior contains
numerous columns, two of Which, standing on the same base, are
believed, like those in the Mosque of Amr at Cairo, to possess
miraculous powers. (Jaundice—patients, for example, are said to
be cured by licking one of them.) The minaret is embellished with
early-Arabian ornamentation.

A trip by boat down to the Mouth of the Nile (Béghdz) takes 3—31/2 hrs.,
or, if the wind is favourable, 11/: hr. only (fare there and back 20 pias.).
Numerous dolphins will be observed in the river near its mouth.

FROM DAMIETTA T0 Rosm'm (p. 20), via Lake Bu1'lus (Borollos), a
route which is not recommended, takes 2—3 days at least, and sometimes
much longer. - To Port Sa'id, see p. 169.

13. From Cairo to Suez via Isma‘iliya.

RAILWAY to Isma'ilt‘ya, 93 M., in 31/2 hrs. (express as far as Zalgizilg;
fares 1st cl. 70, 2nd cl. 35 pias., return-ticket fE 1.50, 53 pias.); to Suez,
131M., in 9 hrs. (fares 97 or 49 pias., return-ticket, valid for a week, EE 1.45,
7 pias.).

A visit to the Suez Canal from Cairo takes four days: 1st Day. By
train to Suez; in the afternoon visit the harbour. —2nd Day. Excursion
in the morning to the Springs of Moses,- in the afternoon by train from Suez
to Isma‘z’liya (or by steamer if there happens to be an opportunity; see
p. 164). —— 3rd Day. Excursion in the morning to El- 6551' and walk through
Isma‘iliya; in the afternoon by steam-tramway to Port Sa'id (31/4 hrs.). —
4th Day. Visit the harbour at Port Sa‘id in the morning; in the afternoon
return by rail to Cairo. —— Hurried travellers may save time by omitting
Isma‘iliya, the attractions of which are not great. At Suez, Isma‘iliya,
and Port Sa‘id there are tolerable hotels in the European style, Where local
guides may be engaged for the environs.

The excursion to the Suez Canal may be conveniently made on the
way back to Europe (or on the way to Palestine), as the Australian, China,
and Indian mail-steamers touch at Suez or Isma'z‘liya. For information as
to the arrival of these steamers apply to the ofﬁces mentioned on p. 26;
exact particulars as to days and hours are not generally obtainable until a
very short time before the appearance of the steamer. Comp. also pp. 6, 168.

The trains start from the principal station at Cairo (p. ‘24). -——
As far as (‘28 M.) Bcnha, the ﬁrst halt of the express—trains, we
follow the Alexandria line (p. 23). We here turn to the E., passing
the stations of (34 M.) Shcblcngeh or Cheblanga, (38 M.) Mit Yazid,
(39 M) Minyet cl-Kamh, (42 M.) Godayeda, and (46 M.) Zanlcalfm. -——
The water-courses and trees are more numerous and. the landscape
generally more picturesque and diversiﬁed than in the W. Delta.

50 M. Zakazilg (good buffet). — Hotels. H6131. D‘EGYPTE, im-
mediately to the left, in the main street, new and spacious, with good

BAEDEKER‘S Egypt. 5th Ed. 11

