UPPER. NUBIA AND THE SUDAN.

 

Route Page
Political Summary. Climate. Preliminary Information 380
36. From Wadi Haifa to Khartﬁm . . . .381

From Wadi Haifa to Kermeh and New Dongola, 382, ——
From Abu Himeed to Meraui.Gebe1 Barkal 382.

37. Khartum and Omdurm'an . . 385
From Khartum to El- Obed, 390. — From Khartum to
Fashoda, 390. — From Khartﬁm to Sennaar, 390.

 

 

 

The Anglo-Egyptian Sudan (pp. xxxi, Cii), occupying an area
approximately equal to that of Central Europe, extends from a line
drawn at Faras (p. 376), above Wadi Haifa, on the N., to beyond
the tenth parallel of latitude on the S. It includes the provinces of
Dongola, Berber, Khartﬁm, Kassala, Kordofdn, Fashoda, and Sen-
ndar, and the smaller districts of Wc’idi Halfa and Suakin. The
British and Egyptian ﬂags ﬂy side by side in the Sudan, and the
rights of the joint possessors are deﬁned by a convention signed on
Jan. 19th, 1899. The interest on the Sudan war—loan (p. Ciii) is
guaranteed to the British Empire, while Egypt bears the cost of
the army and is responsible for any deﬁcit (IE 98,000 in 1900).
The army consists of 16 battalions of Egyptian troops and a few
companies of British soldiers. The Governor-General and Sirdar of
the Egyptian Army is a British ofﬁcer, appointed by the Khedive
on the recommendation of the British government, without whose
consent he may not be dismissed. The Mudirs (p. xxxii) of the pro-
vinces are British ofﬁcers also. At present military government and
martial law prevail throughout the Sudan, though a civil court of two
instances was established at Khartﬁm in March, 1901 (comp. p. xx).
An ad valorem tax of 20 per cent is levied upon the export of gum
(400 tons in 1900), india—rubber, ivory, and ostrich—feathers;
certain articles of general consumption are taxed 10 per cent of their
value in the towns; and among the other sources of revenue are taxes
upon date-palms, irrigation-wheels, and boats, the pedlars’ tax,
prospecting and mining licences, the house tax, and the land sale
tax. The considerable import trade in cotton goods and articles
for barter with the natives is in the hands of Greek and Arab
merchants. Beside the Egyptian coins the Maria Theresa dollar,
equivalent to about 20 pias., is current.

The climate resembles that of Upper Egypt (p. lxi), though the
maximum of temperature is higher and the occasional variations
have a greater range. At Khartﬁm the maximum heat is reached
twice a year, in April and September (1090 Fahr. 01121st Sept., 1900).

\

