112 Route 7. BARRAGE DU NIL.

for its intended purpose. For nearly twenty years after 1867 the
Barrage lay useless, as a costly failure; but in 1885-90 Sir Colin
Scott-Moncrieff successfully completed it at a cost of 460,000l., so
that now a depth of water of about 12 ft. can be maintained.

Nearest the station is the Weir on the E. (Damietta) Branch of
the Nile. This lock and weir is over 500 yds. in length, and has
68 vertical iron sluices. From the farther end a pretty avenue of
lebbek-trees leads across the isthmus (about 1/2 M. wide) between
the arms, in the middle of which is the Menaﬂyeh Canal, constructed
both for irrigation and for communication with the district of Mend-
fiyeh (p. ‘23). The Weir on the W. (Rosetta) Branch 0;“ the Nile is
about 450 yds. across and has 58 vertical iron sluices. The naviga-
tion of the river is carried on by means of spacious basins and locks,
ﬁtted with swing-bridges, at either end of the two weirs and also
on the Menﬁfiyeh Canal. The superstructures of the works are built
in an effective Norman castellated style. A junction-canal above
the weirs connects the two branches 0f the Nile, and is used to
regulate the depth of water in each. When the river is low, the W.
branch receives all its water through this canal.

The island, formerly occupied by fortiﬁcations, is now covered
with attractive and extensive gardens, laid out with ﬂower-beds,
artiﬁcial rocks, etc., by Mr. Draper, an Englishman.

8. The Pyramids of Gizeh.

The Excunsros TO THE Pmanrns or Giznu requires half-a~day. ElIclm'c
Tramway from the Great Nile Bridge at Kasr en—Nil (p. '75) t0 the Mena
House Hotel, every 40 min. from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. (fares 1st cl. 30 mill.,
2nd cl. 15 mill). -—- By Carriage the drive takes 1-11'4 hr. each way, and
a stay of 4 hrs. is included in the tariﬁlcharge (p 27:. Cyclists will ﬁnd
the road excellent. ~RnsTAURANT at the Mena House Hotel (B. 8, luncheon
20-25, D. 30-35 pias ), good (large parties should telephone in advance);
there is also a small restaurant at the terminus of the electric tramway.
Or the travellers may bring provisions with them from their hotel (included
in the pension-charge).

A ﬁne and calm day should be selected for a visit to the Pyramids,
the driving sand in windy weather being very unpleasant. Sun Umbrellas
and Smoked Spectacles are necessary precautions against the glare of the
sun, especially on the top of the Great Pyramid. Ladies who intend to
ascend the pyramids should dress accordingly. A repetition of the ex-
cursion by moonlight produces an ineﬂaceable impression (electric tram-
way at about 9 and 10 on moonlight nights).

CHIEF ATTRACTIONS. Those who are pressed for time should devote
their attention to the “Great Pyramid (p. 116; ascend to the summit and
visit the interior), the M=Sphina: (p. 123), and the ‘Gram'le Temple (p. 124).
The inspection of these chief objects of interest occupies about 2 hrs.
The ”'Cz'rcuil described at p. 126 will occupy 11/2-2 hrs. more.

The road to the Pyramids, which is followed by the electric
tramway also, has been described, as far as the Museum of Gizeh, at
p. 77. It there quits the Nile and runs inland, skirting the park of
the palace. The prison lies to the left of the road; and on the same

