62 Route J. CAIRO. 4. Northern

ROOM III. “Enamelled Hanging Lamps from Mosques,- most of them
made of common green glass, with enamelled inscriptions, medallions,
coats-of-arms, etc. These were used as ornaments, not for lighting
purposes, and are seldom older than the 14th century. The place of man-
ufacture is unknown. Only about a hundred of these lamps are now extant,
and most of them (over 60) are in this museum. About 25, or a fourth
of the total, are from the mosque of Sultan Hasan.

Roon IV. Inlaid and Mosaic Work in Wood, Ivory, etc. — 49, 50.
Portions of a cenotaph (13th cent.), from a tomb near the mosque of Imam
Shafe'i (p. 68), 55. Wooden table or desk (kursi); 59. Magniﬁcent desk
with ﬁne mosaics, from the mosque of Sultan Sha"ban; 62. Prayer-recess
in carved wood, from the chapel of Sitt Rukaiya in Cairo, ac‘65. Koran
case, inlaid in the Persian-Indian taste, with elegant hinges, from the
mosque of Sultan Sha‘ban. _

ROOM V. Wood Carvings and Inlaid and Mosaic Work continued. — 36.
Kursi el-kahf (reading-desk for the Koran) adorned with mosaic and turned
work (15th cent.), 19, 20, 34. Doors from the mosque ofIbrahim el-Burkawi
at Desuk; 2. Student’s cupboard, from the mosque of El-Azhar; 26. Door-
frame (with ﬁnely carved plants and animals) from the convent-mosque
of Sultan Bibars (14th cent.):, 28. Central piece of the covering of a sebil
of Sultan Kai't Bey; 41. Star-shaped table, with painted decorations.

Room VI. Fayence. —— 60-62. Large fayence beads, used to adorn the
chains of hanging lamps; ”326 (in the glass-case), Carnelian Disk, a beautiful
specimen, 173/4 inches in diameter and 4 inches high. with 19 cut facets
on the edge, from the mosque of Sultan Kalaun; 66-70. Hanging vases, in
glazed terracotta; 167. Fayence plaque with a representation of the Ka’ba of
Mecca (made at Damascus in 1726). Nos. 168-175 (tiles with carnations)
are noteworthy specimens of fayence.

Room VII. Wood Carvings and Turned Work. — Mushrebiyehs and panel-
doors from secular buildings. Also, 14. Railing from a dikkeh; 56. Brass
chandelier with 374 lights, bearing the name of Sultan El-Ghﬁri and the
date 909 (1503); 57. Twelve-sided chandelier with 222 lights, from the
mosque of Sultan Hasan.

Room VIII. — 11. Koran-case with ornamental leather-work, bearing
the name of Sultan el-Ghl’iri, etc. — In the cabinets, Oriental bookvbindings.
— In frames on the walls: Textile fabrics, printed stuffs, silk goods.

CORRIDOR. Wood Carvings. —- At the E. end, portions of ceilings from
the mosque of Barkukiyeh, cornices, brackets. 23. Ornamented ceiling,
with stucco-reliefs between geometrical ﬁgures; 58, 71. Door-sills from
the Okella of Kai't Bey (p. 63); 9. Front of a balcony, with wooden railing
and ﬁve win ows pierced in plaster; 7. Bronze-mounted door from the
mosque of Tatar el-Hegaziyeh; 55. Gate of the tomb of Salah-ed-Din
Ayﬁb (13th cent.), 5. Single-leaved door from the mosque of El-Azhar;
*4. Door with carved human and animal ﬁgures, from the Mﬁristan Kalﬁﬁn,
the oldest door in the collection, probably taken from the ruins of the
palace of the Fatimites and barbarously patched up for its later positiOn;

. Door from the mosque of El-Azhar, with Cuﬁc inscriptions mentioning
Sultan Hakim (10th cent.), 6. Large modern gate (18th cent.) with incised
geometrical designs, from an Okella at Damietta.

In the MAGAZINES to the right of the entrance are numerous other
objects of great interest, generally of considerable size, including tomb-
stones, pnlpits, desks, and large doors.

0n quitting the Mosque el—Hakim we turn to the right and soon
ﬁnd ourselves in front of the —

Bab el-Futﬁl} (Pl. E, 2), or ‘Gate of Capture’, which is con-
nected by the ancient city—wall with the similar Bab en-Nasr (Pl. E,
2), or ‘Gate of Victory’, 150 yds. to the E. These two gates form
the strong N.E. extremity of the old city-fortiﬁcations. Together
with the fortiﬁed mosque of Sultan Hakim situated between them
(p. 61), they formed a strong position for the troops of Napoleon

