56 Route 4. CAIRO. 3. South—Eastern

collapse has been averted by the use of iron clamps. The minaret
is one of the most graceful in Cairo. The pulpit is richly embellished
with wood-carving. The mosaics on the pavement and the walls are
also worthy of notice. The roof—window of the sahn has disappeared.

From the W. angle of the Gami'a Ibn Tulﬁn we descend to the
Shr‘wi‘a el- Kheglé‘r’z‘ (Pl. C, D, 7), follow this street to the right (E.),
take the side—street on the left 150 paces farther on, which brings
us after 150 paces more to the beautiful mosque of Ezbek el- Yaseft,
built in 1496 (900 of the Hegira) in the same style as the Gami‘a
Kai't Bey, and recently restored. —— The W. continuation of the
Shari’a el—Khedéri expands into the Shdri‘a el-Mardsm (Pl. C, 7),
which leads almost straight to the small square and mosque of
es-Seyideh Zénab.

The Gami'a. es-Seyideh Zénab (Pl. C, 6, 7) was begun at the
close of the 18th century, completed in 1803, and enlarged and re-
stored in 1884. The interior, richly embellished with ancient col-
umns, contains the tomb (recently restored) of Zénab, daughter of
Imam “Ali, and granddaughter of the Prophet; the bronze railing
enclosing the cenotaph bears the date 1210 (of the Hegira). In
front of this mausoleum are the cenotaphs of three Mohammedan
saints, beneath a stone canopy.

A series of tortuous streets, called successively Shéri‘a el-Lobt‘t-
diyeh, Derb el—Gamdmiz (‘sycamore street’), and Sho‘lri'a el-Hab-
bamyeh, leads hence towards the N. to the (11/4 M.) Shari'a Mo—
hammed rAli (comp. p. 58). After fully half-a-mile we come to a
small open space by the canal, shaded by some ﬁne lebbek-trees.
The gate on the right leads to the —

*Viceregal Library (Kutubkha‘neh; Pl. D, 5), now established
in the Palace of Beth el—Gamdmi‘z, adjoining the left side of the
Ministry of Education. The collection was founded in 1870 by
the Klledive Isma'il and consists of a number of books formerly
preserved in various other institutions, and of others purchased or
presented by the Khedive, and is dedicated to the use of the public.
One of the ﬁnest presentations to the collection is the valuable
library of Mustafa Pasha, which occupies a separate room. The
whole library consists of over 50,000 vols., chieﬂy Arabic, Persian,
and Turkish works. The reading—room is open to the public daily
(except Frid.) from 8 to 5 o’clock; during the month of Ramadan
from 10 to 3 only. The chief credit of arranging this ﬁne collection
of books belongs to three Germans, Dr. Stern, Dr. Spitta-Bey
(d. 1883), and Dr. Vollers; and the present director, Dr. Moritz,
is also a German. —— A new library-building, the groundﬂoor of
which will be reserved for the Arab Museum (p. 61), is now being
erected in the Place Bab el-Khalk (p. 49).

The liberality with which the treasures of Muslim literature are thus
thrown open to the European public is deserving of all praise. The ofﬁ-

cials are instructed to afford visitors all the informatiOu in their power
(no gratuities).

