cxx vlii RELIGION.

night he traverses the underworld and is then named l'efu—Ré
and represented with a ram’s head.

SATET (Greek Satis), guardian-deity of the Cataract district.

SEFKHET-EBUI (Fig. 17), goddess of writing.

SEKHMET (Fig. 16), goddess of war. Sacred animal, the lioness.

SELKET, a goddess to whom the scorpion was sacred.

SERAPIS, a foreign god introduced into Egypt under the Ptolemies
(p. 135), and more or less identiﬁed with the ancient Egyptian
Osiris-Apis, the deceased Apis bull.

SET, god of Auaris, Tanis, and Ombos (near Nakadeh), was the
brother of Osiris, whom he is said to have slain (p. cxx).
Another myth makes him brother of Horus and guardian-deity
of Lower Egypt. After the 22nd Dyn. he was expelled from the
Egyptian pantheon, and was tlienceforth rcgarded as god of
the impure (Typhon). His sacred animal was the ass, represented
with grotesque muzzle and ears.

Snow, god of Leontonpolis. The Egyptians believed that he sup-
por.ed the sky. The lion was sacred to him.

Son]: (Fig. 18; Greek Sue/ms), a water-god worshipped chieﬂy in
the Fayﬁm, at Ombos, etc. The crocodile was sacred to him.

SOKARIS, the ancient Memphian god of the dead.

SUTEKH, a foreign (Asiatic) god, worshipped in the Delta, and amal-
gamated with Set.

TEFNUT, sister of Show, and represented as a lioness.

TETUN, guardian—dcity of Nubia.

THOUT or THOTH (Fig. 19), a moon-deity and god of the sciences,
therefore identiﬁed by the Greeks with Hermes. He was the
city-god of Hermopolis (p. 201). The ibis and baboon were
sacred to him.

Toiims ‘the great (sail. Opet)’, another name of Opet (see p. cxxvii).

TWE-METF, one of the guardian—deities of the dead. See Amset.

\VEN-NOFRE (Greek 0nnophris), a surname of Osiris.

\VEP—WAT, god of the dead and a deity of Assiﬁt. The desert wolf
was sacred to him. .

WERT-HEKAW, a lion—headed goddess, wife of Re-Harmachis.

W16 (Greek Buto), goddess of the town of Buto in the Delta; also
a guardian-deity of Lower Egypt. The serpent, ichneumon, and
shrew-mouse were sacred to her. This goddess was also re—
presented with a lion‘s head (like Sekhmet).

