328 Route 29. ASSUAN. History.

(p. 330). The horizon on the W. is bounded by the Libyan hills,
on the E. by the Arabian mountains.

HISTORY. The district round the modern Assuan, including the island
of Elephantine, bore in antiquity the name of Yébu, or ‘Elephant Land‘,
probably because the Egyptians here ﬁrst saw the African elephant. At
a later date that name. was restricted to the island and town of Elephant-
ine. From antiquity down to the present day Elephantine has marked
the limit of Egypt proper in the direction of Nubia. From the erection
of the Pyramids to the Roman period the ancient Egyptians found material
for their great temples and statues in the quarries ot Yébu (Syene), which
yielded fine coloured granite, containing a large proportion of translucent
quartz and of yellow, brownish, pink, and black mica. Curiously enough,
however, the term ‘syenite', which 'was used by Pliny, is now applied
by geologists to a different variety of stone, containing a much larger pro-
portion ot'hornblende. Strategically, Yébu commanded the Nile cataracts
and the channels that fostered communication by water between Egypt
and Nubia. it was also the starting-point of the great caravan-routes
leading to Nubia and the Sudan, along which passed the earliest com-
mercial and military expeditions of the Egyptians, and it thus became
an important depot for the trade with the interior of Africa. The ancient
capital of the province was also named Yébu and lay on the S. side of the
island (p. 331).

Another town, named Swénet, the Syene of the Greeks, was situated on
the E. bank of the Nile, but appears not to have attained any great im-
portance until a late period. Large mounds of rubbish near the railway-
station still indicate the t'Ormer size of this town. Juvenal, the Latin satiric
poet, was appointed prefect of the garrison at Syene, or, in other words,
was banished to the most remote frontier of the empire, as a punishment
for his biting attacks on the court. A famous curiosity of ancient Syene
was a well, into which the sun’s rays descended perpendicularly, casliug
no shadow, at midday during the summer-solstice, thus proving that
Syene was situated under the tropic (which, however, has now shifted
somewhat to the S.). The report of its existence led the learned Athenian
Eratosthenes (2i6-19t5 B.U.), attached to the Museum at Alexandria, to the
discovery of the method of measuring the size of the earth that is still
employed. The place suﬁ‘ered greatly at the hands of the Blemmyes (p. 352),
but became the seat of a Christian bishop, and appears to have rapidly re-
gained its prosperity under the Khalit's. Arab authors record that no fewer
than 20,000 inhabitants died of the plague at one time, a fact that points
to a very large total population. After the close of the 12th cent. Assuan
suffered severely from the incursions of plundering Arab tribes, ﬁnally
put a st0p to by a Turkish garrison stationed here by the sultan Selim,
after the conquest of Egypt in 1517.

The broad and clean street skirting the river presents an almost
European appearance, with its whitewashed houses. To the N. of
the landing—place 'a ruined building, for which stones of earlier
buildings have been used, projects into the river. This, known to
the Arabs as Et-Hammtim (the bath), probably dates from the
Roman period and seems to have been a lock or a téte-de-pont.
Near it rises the Assuan Hotel; farther down are the government-
buildings, the Cafe‘ lx'hc’divial, Cook’s bureau, and the Post Ofﬁce;
and upstream are the Commissariat Store, the Cataract Hotel, and
the palm—shaded railway-station (p. 327). Farther to the S. are
the ruins of a building (probably a convent) on a hill and Fort
Tagug. On the island of Elephantine the Savoy Hotel is conspi—
cuous. Across the river appears the hill with the rock-tombs and the
Kubbet el-hawa (p. 334) on the highest point. The Nile, with its

