92 Route. 6. MUSEUM OF GiZEH. Upper Floor.

THE UPPER FLOOR

contains the smaller antiquities and the mummies Of kings and
priests of Ammon.

a. GraecO-Roman Objects.

ROOM XLIV. Cases A and B: Mummy—wrappings from Akh-
mim. — Case C: Mummies from the Fayﬁm, with golden masks.
334. Mummy Of a child; a portrait painted on linen here takes the
place Of the gold mask [2nd cent. after Christ). 335. Mummy Of a
child, with a portrait painted in wax-colours on a thin wooden tablet.
-— 336. Statuette of Venus wringing the water from her hair. ——
Case E.- Glass vessels; bronze vases, fragments Of bronze utensils.
— Case F.- Mummies with portraits, from the Fayﬁm, among
which NO. 337 may be specially mentioned, and the still ﬁner fe-
male portrait beside it tO the left, a veritable masterpiece. —-
Case G.- 338, 339. Lamps. 340-343. Candelabra, in shape, decora-
tion, and workmanship resembling those found at Pompeiiand
Herculaneum. 344. Mountings of a cofﬁn. in lead. — Cases H
and I: Mummy—masks. — Case J: 345. Two triangular stucco
has-reliefs of sirens, painted and gilded (belonging to the cofﬁn
No. 394 in R. XLV); 346, 347. Wooden tablets coated with wax,
inscribed with seven lines in the Homeric style; 348. Two bronze
military diplomas Of the reign of the Emperor Domitian, found at
Koptos. Above, wooden tablets from cofﬁns, bearing the names of
the deceased; 351. Fragment of a limestone statuette Of Alexander
the Great (‘8) as Hercules, Of Greek workmanship. -— Case K.-
Mummies from the Fayﬁm and from Gebelén.

Case L: Mummies and mummy-‘cartonnages’ from the Fayﬁm.

354. Mummy, with gOld mask and garlands; 355. Similar mummy,
with the name Artemidora several times repeated on the linen band-
ages; 356. Leaden cofﬁn, from Alexandria; 357. Mummy Of a man
with portrait painted in the encaustic style upon wood; 358. Mummy
with gold mask and garlands; *359. Richly gilded mask in remark-
able preservation, with genii of the dead executed in enamel (from
Mér); 360. Mummy Of a woman named Thermutharion, with por-
trait upon wood in tempera (the wrappings are of pink cartonnage,
with gilding); 1316. TWO painted stucco-heads, from mummies;
1321. Two female mummy—masks, with delicate tints (from Mér).

Case M.- Ptolemaic, Roman, Byzantine, and provincial coins. —
Case N: Coins Of the Roman period.

011 the top Of Cases A, B, C, F, K, and L are a number Of
terracotta vessels, including a series remarkable for the white back-
ground on the exterior, some showing traces Of bright colours. One
specimen (on Case B) exhibits two carefully painted leathern boots.
These vessels are cinerary urns, the last-mentioned perhaps that Of
a shoemaker.

