l0 Asslut. lVlA'AbUhH. Id. Home. 41 I

220 M. Monfalﬁt (rail. stat, p. 191) lies on the W. bank close
to the river, which must have made great encroachmeuts here since
the end of the 18th century. Between Monfa11‘1t and Assiﬁt (26 M.
by river, only 17 M. by land) the Nile makes many curves.

Ma'abdeh, a small village on the E. bank, lies on a narrow
strip of fertile land between the Nile and the S. end of the rocky
Gebel Abu Féda. The hills to the NE. of Ma‘abdeh contain tombs
of the Early Empire. To the S. is the Gebel Kumeh, with a quarry
exhausted in the reign of Sethos II. (inscription).

About 3% M. to the N.E., on the plateau of the Arabian hills, is
the so- -called Crocodile Grotto, in which a large number of mummies of
crocodiles were found, besides human mummies and a celebrated papyrus
MS. containing fragments of Homer’s Iliad. The expedition is not worth
the trouble, as practically nothing is to be seen except the charred remains
of the mummies of crocodiles. —— To the S.E. of Ma'abdeh lies the village
of ‘Arab el-‘Atyat, with tombs and quarries.

On the E. bank are (227 M.) the three villages of Beni Mo-
liammcd. To the NE. of these, on the N. verge of a large and
fertile plain that extends S. to almost opposite Assiﬁt, lies the Coptic
village Dér el- Gebmi (Gabrawi), containing a Greekinscription (dis-
covered by Mr. Harris) in the form of a dedication 0f the Lusitanian
Cohort, which served under Diocletian and Maximian, to Zeus,
Hercules, and Nike (Victoria). In the Gebel Mardg, a ridge about
11/2 hr. distant, are numerous rock-tombs belonging to princes and
grandees of the nome of the ‘Se/rpcnt Mountain.

These tombs, mostly dating from the close of the Early Empire, are
divided into a N. E. and a S W. group, the former comp1izing 80 tombs
(4 with inscriptions and representations), the latter about 40 (12 with re-
presentations). The most interesting are two of the S. E. group, situated
above the village of Der el- Grebrai, belonging to Thaw and Ebe (11th Dyn. ),
princes of the name of the Serpent Mounta' n and of the nome of Abydos.
Like the graves of Benihasan, these tombs contain interesting represen-
tations of handicraftsmen, harvest- scenes, fishing and hunting scenes, etc.

Above Beni Mohammed the Nile makes several great bends and
is divided into two arms by the large island Geziret Behig. On the
E. arm lies (233 M.) Ebnﬁb {Abnoub}, with 5800 inhab. (4800 Copts)
and ﬁne palm—groves. The mountains 011 the E. bank now recede,
and the foot—hills of the Libyan chain approach the river, which is
here barred by the Dam of Assii‘it (Assiout Barrage) now under.
construction, an imposing work intended to regulate the irrigation
of the provinces of Assiﬁt, Minyeh, and Benisuef. It consists of
eight sections, the ﬁrst and last of which have three arches and a
sluice, while the others have nine arches each. As at the Barrage
below Cairo (p. 111), each arch can be shut by an iron door. The
dam is crossed by a carriage—road. ~— Immediately above the weir,
on the W. bank, is the efﬂux of the Ibrahfm’iyeh Canal, the S. pro-
longation of the Bahr Yﬁsuf (p. 210).

We land at (247 M.) el- Hamra, the palm- -enclosed harbour of
Assiut. An embanked road, shaded by ﬁne trees, leads past the station
and handsome private and public buildings to the town in 1/4 hr.

14*

