342 Route 29. PHILlE. Hadrian’s Gate.

getes I. and his wife Berenice, on which stood the sacred boat with
the image of Isis.

The other rooms in the inner part of the temple do not repay a visit.
Rooms VIII, VII, and VI contain ﬁne large reliefs 0f Ptolemy Philadelphus,
some of which retain their vivid colouring. The small Court in which sa-
crifices used to he made is embellished with reliefs of Philadelphus offer-
ing incense and pouring water upon a small altar. There are cellars
beneath all these rooms and the Sanctuary, but the ceilings and ﬂoors have
in many cases fallen in.

To the \V. of Vestibule D is a small room (Pl. I), embellished
with representations of the king before Isis. A door (Pl. n; p. 343)
here affords an exit from the temple. Here also is the approach to
the STAIRCASE, ascending ﬁrst to a chamber situated above Room VII,
and thence to the ROOF of the Sanctuary. A few steps descend here
to the *Osmis CHAMBERS, with 9 interesting reliefs referring to the
death of Osiris (p. oxx).

0n the left wall of the Anteroom (above Room F): 1. The (N.) Niles
god offers a libation of milk to the soul of Osiris, sitting before him in
the form of a bird; 2. The hawk-headed Harendotes pours the sacred water
over the hawk-headed mummy of Osiris, behind which stand the sisters of
the god. 3. Four daemons, the god Show, and the Enlp. Antoninus (builder
of this room) before Osiris and his two sisters Isis and Nephthys. In the
small Main Chamber (above Room 11), on the wall opposite the entrance:
Central Row, beginning to the left: 1. Isis and Nephthys by the bier of
Osiris Onnofris, who is nude; 2. Two goddesses beside the dead Osiris,
whose head is wanting; a lion rests by the d00r to the tomb; 3. Four
daemons carrying the hawk-headed mummy of Osiris. Lower Row: 1. The
frog-headed Heket and the hawk»headed Harsiésis by the bier of Osiris,
beneath which stand the jars for the entrails; 2. The corpse of Osiris
amongst marsh-plants; a priest pouring the consecrated water; 3. The
jackal-headed Anubis by the bier of Osiris, beside which kneel Isis and
Nephthys, the sisters of Osiris.

We quit the temple of Isis by Door n (see above), turn to the
\\'., and proceed to visit —

Hadrian’s Gateway, a small portal in the ancient girdle-wall
of the temple, adjoined by a much ruined vestibule. This structure
was built by Hadrian and embellished by Marcus Aurelius and
Lucius Verus. On the lintel are two reliefs: Hadrian before Osiris,
lsis, and Harsiésis; to the left7 Hadrian before Osiris, Nephthys.
and Harendotes. On the left jamb is the sacred relic of Abydos, on

the rightjamb, the sacred relic of Busiris (i, the spine of Osiris).

Within the gateway, at the top of the right wall: Marcus Aurelius
before Osiris and Isis (note the lines to guide the artist); below,
Marcus Aurelius bringing grapes and ﬂowers to Isis.

The VESTIBULE, which was never completed and is now much ruined,
contains some interesting reliefs. Above the door in the S. wall (Pl. 0)
of the chamber are two rows of reliefs. Above: Nephthys presenting the
crown of Lower Egypt, and Isis that of Upper Egypt to Horns; the king’s
name is being inscribed on a palm-leaf by Thout, t0 the left, and by
Sefkhet-ebui (goddess of writing), to the right; behind Thout sits the god

Show, holding a sail , and still farther back are another god and

