lxxviii HISTORY.

the citizens the number of inches that the river has risen. The munadi
is accompanied by a boy, with whom he enters on a. long religious dia-
logue by way of preface to his statements, which, however, are generally
inaccurate. The next important day is that of the Cutting of the Dam (ydm
gebr el-baZu', or yom wefa el-balu'), between the ist and the 14th of the
Coptic month of Misra (Le. between 6th and 19th August), when the principal
ceremonies are performed on the Fum el-Khalig (p. 68). The Nile-crier,
attended by boys carrying ﬂags, announces the Wefa en—Nz‘l (i.e. superﬂuity
of the Nile), or period when the water has reached its normal height of
sixteen ells (p. 69). The actual cutting through of the dam can no longer
take place, but the festivities go on as before.

IV. Outline of the History of Egypt.

I. ANCIENT HISTORY.
By Prof. G. SIeindorﬁ".

a. From the Earliest Times to the Macedonian Conquest in 332 B. C.

Exact systems of chronology were as little known to the ancient
Egyptians as to the other peoples of antiquity. The events they
desired to record were dated according to the years of the king
reigning at the time. In order to determine at what period a partic-
ularking had reigned, the priests drew up long lists of monarchs,
fragments of which have survived to the present day (p. 2‘22). The
chronological epitomes, moreover, which are all that has been trans-
mitted to us of the ‘Egyptian History’, written in Greek by the
priest Manethoi, were founded on these native registers. Manetho
arranged all the rulers of Egypt, from Menes, the ﬁrst king, to
Alexander the Great, in 31 Dynasties, which correspond, generally
speaking, to the various royal houses that held sway in Egypt suc-
cessively or (at certain periods) contemporaneously. This arrange-
ment has been generally adopted by writers 011 the subject; but at
the same time, for the sake of convenience, several dynasties are
frequently grouped together under the name of a ‘period’. ‘empire’, or
‘monarchy’. The lack of any settled chronoIOgy renders it, of course,
impossible to assign anything like exact dates for the kings before
Psammetikh I. The dates, therefore, in the following outline are
given as approximate merely, and in the earliest period may some—
times be even centuries out.

1. The Prehistoric Period.

The dark prehistoric period, which later traditions ﬁll up with
dynasties of gods and demigods, is illumined by a few scattered
rays of light only. It may be taken as certain that the country did
not originally form one single kingdom, but was divided into two
states — the ‘North Land’, corresponding to the Delta, and the
‘South‘, stretching from the neighbourhood of Memphis (Cairo) to

+ Manetho of Sebennytos ﬂourished in the reigns of Ptolemy I. and
Ptolemy II. He wastrobably a priest at Heliopolis and wrote his three
books of Aiyunnaxa Tmnvfnara in the reign of Philadelphus.

