Topography. THEBES. 24. Route. 235

el- Medineh. — 3rd day. Ramesseum; Tombs of Shékh 'Abd el- Kurna
terrace- temple of Dér e1- -bahri; el- Asasrf', Drah Abu 1 Neggah. — 4th day.
Temple of Sethos I. at Kurna; Tombs of the Kings, returning over the
ridge. — 5th day. Second visit to Karnak; visit to the various side—
temples and pylons; excursion to Medamut (p 259), if desired.

Sport. Sportsmen may have an opportunity of shooting a iackal, the
best time and place being at and after sunset near Biban el- Muluk or the
Ramesseum. An experienced hunter is to be found at the Luxor Hotel.
Hyaenas are sometimes shot on the Karnak side. In March numerous quail
are found here.

On each side of the Nile, here interrupted by three islands,
stretches a wide belt of fertile land, bounded both on the E. and
W. by ranges of hills, overtopped by ﬁnely shaped peaks, especially
011 the E., Where the ridge retires farther from the stream than 011
the W. The verdant crops and palms which everywhere cheer the
traveller as soon as he has quitted the desert, the splendid hues that
tinge the valley every morning and evening, the brilliant, unclouded
sunshine that bathes every object even in the winter-season, lend
to the site of ancient Thebes the appearance of a wonderland, richly
endowed with the' gifts 0f never—failing fertility. Most of the ruined
temples are situated in the level district and are reached by the
waters of the Nile when the inundations are at their highest; while
the tombs are hewn in the ﬂanks of the hills, where their dark open-
ings are so numerous, that the E. slope of the Libyan range might
be aptly compared to a piece of cork or to a honeycomb.

On the right (1%.) bank lies Luxor, now a town of 11,000 inhab.
(over 2600 Copts), the chief tourist—centre in Upper Egypt. The
name is derived from the Arabic el- Kusiir (pl. of el—Ka_sr) and means
‘the castles’, having reference to the extensive temple within which
part of the place was built. Near the temple traces of an antique
structure on the river-bank may still be seen, though it is gradually
being washed away by the annual inundations. To the N. ofLuxor
extend the immense ruins of Kamak, formerly connected with it
by the streets 0f the city. Even under the Pharaohs the Temple of
Ammon, the chief g0d 0f Thebes, was considered the most striking
creation of an age peculiarly famous for architectural achievements.
To this day no other building in the world can match its dimensions.
Farther to the N. is another extensive temple—site at Medamr‘rt
(p. 260), which must be regarded as occupying the site of a suburb
of Thebes.

On the left (W.) bank was the Necropolis, with vaults in the rock
and tombs on the desert—soil, adjoined by many mortuary temples
and dwelling -houses. Even in antiquity the Tombs of the Kings
(p. 262) were reckoned among the chief sights of ancient Thebes.

The HISTORY of Thebes under the Early Empire is veiled in
uncertainty. The Egyptian name for the town was WEset, or more
shortly Net, ‘the city’, whence the scriptural name No or No-Amon
(‘city’, ‘city of Ammon’]. The W. bank was known as ‘the West of
WESet7 or ‘the West of the city’. N0 satisfactory explanation has

