Temple. ABU—SIMBEL. 34. Route. 373

_ SOUTH WALL (left; P]. ’0). At the top are ﬁve reliefs: 1. The
ang hefore a ram-headed god and a lion—headed goddess; 2. The
king dedicates four rows of packages; 3. The king offers incense to
Ptah; 4. The king kneeling under the sacred tree of Heliopolis,
hefore HarmachiS; Thout and Sefkhet—ehui stand close hy; 5. The
king hefore Ammon. Beneath are three large warlike scenes. 1. The
king in his chariot, followed hy three princes, at the storm of a
Syrian fortress. The defenders 0n the hattlements are pierced with
his arrows and sue for mercy. Beneath, a herdsman ﬂees with his
herd towards the town. 2. The king on foot, treading upon a pros—
trate enemy, and piercing a Lihyan with a lance so that his hlood
gushes forth. 3. The triumphal return of the king from hattle with
the captured negroes.

NORTH WALL (right; Pl. l). The suhject on this wall is the
Battle of Kadesh, the culminating event in the Hittite war, with
which we have already become acquainted in the Ramesseum (pp. 284,
285), and at Lnxor, Karnak, and Ahydos.

In the Lower Half of the representation we see ﬁrst the march
of the Egyptian army, which consists of infantry and charioteers;
then (between the doors to Rooms Fand G), the Egyptian camp, with
the shields of the soldiers arranged round it in a kind of stockade.
The bustle of the camp is represented with great vivacity; the un-
harnessed horses receiving their fodder, the resting soldiers, the
camp—followers, etc.; to the right is the royal tent. The third picture
shows the king on his throne, holding a council of war with his
ofﬁcers. Below two spies are being compelled hy blows to yield
their secret. In the last scene (to the right) the chariots of the
Egyptians and Hittites are already engaged in battle. — The scenes
in the Upper Half transport us to the midst of the ﬂight. To the left
the king dashes in his chariot against his enemies, who have sur-
rounded him in their chariots; he launches his arrows against them.
In the centre is the fortress of Kadesh, surrounded hy the Orontes.
Its defenders watch the ﬁght from the battlements. To the extreme
right is the king in his chariot, inSpecting his ofﬁcers, who count
the severed hands of the enemy and bring fettered prisoners.

REAR (W.) WALL. To the right (Pl. m) of the central door is
Ramses II. leading two rows of captured Hittites hefore Harmachis,
his own deiﬁed ﬁgure, and the lion-headed Wert—hekaw; to the left
(Pl. n) he leads two rows of negroes hefore Ammon, the deiﬁed
Ramses, and Mut. — Between the two last (8.) pillars is an in-
teresting Stale (Pl. p) of the 35th year of Ramses 11., on which is a
long inscription recording in ﬂorid terms that Ramses erected large
ediﬁces for Ptah of Memphis and presented rich gifts to him.

Adjoining this large hall are eight CHAMBERS (Pl. F—N), probahly
used to store the temple utensils and furniture. Round the walls
of these, which are covered with inferior reliefs, run stone henches.
We now proceed through the door in the hack—wall to the —

