Clxii BUILDINGS OF THE MOHAMMEDAT‘IQ.

by an unadorned doorway, while neither minaret nor dome rose
above the long straight walls. It was not until the Egyptians beheld
the buildings of the Crusaders in Syria and Palestine that they be-
gan to elaborate the facades of their mosques. The h.therto smooth
walls were now interrupted by panels 'or ﬁelds, receding about 8 or
10 inches, but aga‘n brought forward to the level of the facade by
smooth slanting surfaces immediately below the unobtrusive bat-
tlemented main cornice. In these panels were placed the windows
(rectangular or arched), frequently arranged in pairs with a smaller
circular or star-shaped window above, usually closed with Kamarlyeh
(p. Clxvi). The main portal was a deep rectangular recess, with a
stone bench on either side, and terminating at the top in a half-
dome, embellished with stalactites. The doorway at the inner end
of the recess was surmounted by an architrave or a relieving arch,
often in fantastically waved or broken—arch forms. The door itself,
often richly panelled, is usually embellished on one side with em—
bossed or chased bronze decorations. The threshold generally con-
sisted of an ancient block of granite. The low railing here (or on
the steps below) marks the boundary to which the visitor may
penetrate without removing his shoes or sandals.

The sanctuary is frequently adjoined by the Turba or Mortuary
Chapel of the founder. This is usually a square chamber, contain—
ing a catafalque above the vaulted tombs in which the deceased
are placed with due attention to the separation of the sexes. The
chapel is covered by a dome, the transition to which from the
square ground-plan is effected by means of a delicately articulated
intermediate construction, tapering gradually to an octagon. In
the examples dating from the Fatimite period, the pendentives
corresponding to the four bevelled angles of the intermediate struc-
ture retain the large spherical niches borrowed from Roman and
Byzantine models. These were replaced, under the Eyyubides, by
several rows of prism-shaped niches, and ﬁnally, under the Mame—
lukes, by more or less complicated arrangements of stalactite-pen-
dentives. These last are formed by a system of gradually projecting
courses of stone, embellished by dwarf domes and niches exhibiting
a very great variety of proﬁle—outline.

The oldest mosques seem to have had no Mz'narets. The earlier
examples of these towers were square throughout, tapering up-
wards , and were covered by a simple conical roof. The later
examples are square at the base but assume a cylindrical or poly-
gonal form in the upper stories, and are embellished with galleries
supported by stalactite-cornices and with balconies; the top story
is formed of columns or pilasters bearing a roof consisting of a
dome-shaped protuberance. The minarets contain Winding stair—
cases, two being sometimes arranged round the same newel for the
convenience of the blind men WhO are preferred as Mutddins or sum—
moners to prayer. The wooden rods and hooks on the galleries and

