288 Route 24. THEBES (w. BANK ). 7. The Tombs of

with a roof frequently borne by pillars or columns, and a Corridor, begin-
ning opposite the entrance—door and ending in a recess, in which the
statues of the deceased and his favourite relatives were erected. Not un—
frequently there is a small chamber on each side of the corridor. Opposite
the entrance-door was a kind of fore-court, where offerings were made
to the dead. The representations in the hall depict the deceased in his
earthly circumstances and duties, and thus shed a ﬂood of light upon
Egyptian life at the beginning of the New Empire. The end-walls (to the
right and left) of the vestibules are shaped like huge gravestones; that to
the right usually bears prayers for the dead, while on the other is recorded
the biography of the deceased. The representations on the walls of the
corridors illustrate the various funeral rites. As the limestone of the hill
of Shekh ‘Ahd el—IKurna is of poor quality, ill-adapted for sculpture, the
walls of most of the tombs were covered with clay, then whitewashed,
and adorned with paintings.

The more important tombs were recently explored by Newberry and
provided with doors. The keys may he obtained from the Inspector Gen-
eral at Medinet-Hahu. Many of the tombs are inhabited by fellahin, while
the fore-courts serve for their livestock. In front of most of these cave-
dwellings stand covered cylinders like gigantic mushrooms, of Nile mud
andstraw kneaded together. These are the primitive granaries of the in-
habitants of rAbd el-Kurna, several of Whom are well-to-do, with houses
of Nile bricks, conspicuous from a distance. — The tombs are marked in
black ﬁgures (1-27), which are shown in the adjoining small plan. It time
is limited, it will be sufﬁcient to visit the tombs of Ramose, Nakht,
Rekhmeré, Amenemheb, Sen-nofer, and Enné.

From the Ramesseum we proceed to the E., in the direction of
the mountains, and soon reach the important tombs of Ramose and
Nakht, both situated on the hillside.

No. 118 is the Tomb of Ramosé, a vizier, who ﬂourished in
the reign of the heretical king, Amenophis IV. (p. lxxxii). When
Amenophis transferred his residence from Thebes to Tell el-‘Amarna
(p. 203), he was followed by Ramosé, who left his Theban tomb
unﬁnished. As one of the few monuments dating from the begin-
ning of the reign of Amenophis IV., the period at which the transi—
tion from the ancient religion to pure sun-worship was accomplished,
this tomb is of great historical importance and a visit to it is espe-
cially recommended to travellers who have not seen Tell el-‘Amarna.
The tomb, which was discovered by Villiers Stuart, comprises two
chambers. On the left wall of the FIRST CHAMBER (largely ﬁlled with
rubbish) the deceased and his sister Merit—Ptah appear before a
defaced god (Osiris); to the left are a sacriﬁce to Hathor and fu:
neral rites. On the left half of the rear-wall is Amenophis IV., still
represented in the old conventional manner, seated below a canopy
with Maat, goddess of truth, while Ramose is represented twice;
on the right half the king and his consort are shown on a balcony
of the palace, watching Ramosé being adorned with the golden
chains they have thrown down to him. The unattractive features
of the king are here reproduced with great ﬁdelity to nature; the
ﬁgure of Ramose is merely sketched in. Above are the sun and its
beams; behind, the royal body-guard. Farther to the right is Ra-
mose leaving the palace with his decorations and receiving the con-
gratulations of the populace. In the Doorway to the next chamber

