Small Temple. A llU-SIMBEL. 34. Route. 375

the queen are the princesses Meryl—Amen (right) and Hent—tewé
(left), both with sistra; beside the outer colossi of the king are the
princes Mery-Atum (right) and Mery-Ré (left); and beside the colossi
of the king on the right and left of the door are princes Amen-her-
khopshef (right) and Ra—her-rmamf (left). 011 the receding facade
are projecting parts resembling buttresses, separating the colossi,
so that each of the latter appears to be in a kind ofniche. On these
buttresses are votive inscriptions.

We now enter the HYPOSTYLE HALL (Pl. A) the roof of which
is borne by six pillars, decorated in front with sistra with the head
of Hathor, while behind are representations of the king, the queen,
and various deities.

MURAL BELIEFS. On the Entrance Wall (Pl. a, b) Ramses, accompanied
by hrs wife, smites (left) a negro in presence of Ammon-Re and (right)
a. Libyan before RErHarmachis. — Left Wall (Pl. c,- from left to right):
1. Ramses before Hathor; 2. Ramses blessed by Set and Horus; 3. The
queen before Anukis; 4. Ramses presenting an image of Maat to Ammon.
— Right Wall (P1.d: from right to left): 1. Ramses dedicating food to
Ptah; 2. Ramses before the ram-headed god Har—shef of Heracleopolis;
3. The queen before Hathor; 4. Ramses offering wine to Harmaehis. —
Rear Wall. To the right of the central recess, the queen before Hathor; to
the left, the queen before Mut.

Three doors lead into a TRANSVERSE CHAMBER (Pl. B), with un-
important reliefs. Adjoining are two rooms, barely begun, over the
doors of which are tasteful reliefs of the Hathor cow in the marsh
worshipped in one case by the king, in the other by the queen.
From the Transverse Chamber we enter the SANCTUARY (Pl. 0). In
the rear—wall is a chapel-shaped recess, with its roof supported by
sistra. Within this is a high relief, representing (full face). a ﬁgure
of Hathor in the form of a cow, below the head of which appears
the king under her protection 0n the Right Wall the queen offers
incense to Mut. and Hathor; on the Left Wall the king offers incense
and pours a libation before his own image and that of his wife.
Two rooms adjoining the sanctuary were originally planned, and
spaces for doors to these have been left free in the rear-wall of the
Transverse Chamber.

0n the smoothed face of the rocks both to the N. of the small
temple and to the S. of the great temple, are numerous *Memorial
Inscriptions and Steles, most of which date from the reign of Ramses II.

35. From Abu-Simbel to Weidi Halfa.
40 M. Comp. the Map, p. 34.9.
As we proceed to the S. from Abu-Simbel we notice the village
of Ballanyeh on the W. bank. 0n the E. bank, below Abahada, a
village belonging to Farék, the hills approach close to the stream.
011 one of these, the Gebel Addeh, lies a small ROCK TEMPLE, founded
by King Haremheb (18th Dyn.) and dedicated to Ammon—Ré and
Thout of Shmun. This temple was afterwards used as a Christian

