126 Route .3. GRANITE TEMPLE. pyramids

thickness to a transverse Gallery (Pl. A2), with a small room (Pl. mm)
at each end. At the point l in this gallery, Mariette found a deep
well, 110w full of water, in which were no fewer than nine statues of
Khephren. The best of these are now in the Museum of Gizeh
(p. 81). Several ﬁgures of baboons and fragments of other statues
also were found here.

Between the Granite Temple and the Sphinx excavations have
laid bare a series of walls made of bricks of Nile mud. These date
from the Ptolemaic or the Roman period, and were built around the
Sphinx in order to protect it from the shifting sand.

The tombs surrounding the different pyramids7 where the rela-
tives and state—ofﬁcials of the kings were interred, are far inferior
in interest to the tombs that have been excavated and rendered
accessible at Sakk'ara (p. 137) and the gra\ es in Upper Egypt The
exterior of the mastabas (p.137), howuer, may be studied here
(especially in the tombs to the W. and S. E. of the Great Pyramid)
to better advantage than at Sakkérra. Travellers who propose to visit
Sakk'ara may content themselves with an inspection of the exterior
of these graves; otherwise the so-called Tomb of Numbers (p. 128)
and Campbell’s sTomb (p 13 7) are usually visited

Travellers who are not pressed for time and who desire to obtain
a closer view of the second and third Pyramids, are recommended to
make the following *Circuit of the Pyramid Plateau.

After having inspected the Great Pyramid (p. 116], we turn
(following the dotted line 011 the Map, p. 116) to the left (\V.) of
the entrance, descend the mound of debris, and proceed to the N.W.
angle of the Pyramid, where the levelled space on the ground
(Pl. b], intended for the reception of the corner—stone, has been
exposed to view. Towards the W. and S.W. lie numerous tombs
presenting an impressive appearance. One of these may be ascended
in order to inspect the shafts (p. cxlivl leading into the depths.

Those, however, who are not deterred by difﬁculty will ﬁnd the tomb
15111 Dyn.) of Shepses—kef-ankh and his son [met-2' (Pl. c), almost due N.
of the Second Pyramid, the least inconvenient. This tomb is half-buried
in sand, and visitors have to crawl through the low entrance in order
to reach the long vaulted corridor, which is covered with reliefs and
inscriptions. — The beautiful tomb of rl'efer-bew—th, a grandson of Shep-
ses-kef-onkh. lies to the left (S ), but is unfortunately quite buried.

We now skirt the W. side of the vast necropolis, and reach thc
N.W. angle of the rocky enclosure of the court of the Second Pyr-
amid. A natural cleft in the rock (Pl. d) here facilitates our descent
from the top of the rock, which is 16 ft. in height. At the foot of it
we reach the plateau which was hewn in the rock in order to prepare
a level surface for this pyramid (p. 121). On the N. side of the
Pyramid is a quarry (Pl. e), where, under Ramses 11., blocks were
hewn for the temple of Heliopolis. The incisions and transverse
furrows forming six rows of squares date from this period.

