260 Route 94. THEBES (W. BANK). 3. Ku-rna:

to the left and runs mostly along the edge of ditches, frequented, especially
in December, by wild fowl.

The Temple of Medamut, dedicated to the war-god Mont, was situated
in the N. suburb of Thebes, called Metu. The erection of this temple dates
from the time of Amenophis II., of the 18th Dynasty. His name occurs
on the large granite pillars which are still standing and which probably
formed part of the Sanctuary. The latter was adjoined by a large ediﬁce,
lying approximately from E. to W. Much farther to the W. was a Pylon,
facing the river, but now destroyed; it was built by Sethos I. and Ramses 11.
Under the Ptolemies an addition was made to the earlier temple, including
the ﬁve columns, which are now the most conspicuous and most interest-
ing feature of the ruins. These belonged to a covered colonnade. Between
the two clustered columns with calyx-capitals is a door, with inscriptions
of Euergetes II. and Neos Dionysos. The two clustered columns with bud-
capitals and the ﬁfth isolated column probably belonged to the original
temple of the Middle Empire and were afterwards incorporated in the
rebuilding during the Ptolemaic period.

B. THE WEST BANK AT THEBES.

An early start should be made. Guides, Donkeys, etc., see p. 233. Lun-
cheon should be taken. A ferry-boat plies from the two chief hotels at
Luxor to the W. bank (there and back 15.). Donkeys are usually found
on tbe W. bank, but a large party is recommended to order them the
night before.

0n the West Bank lay the Necropolis, or City of the Dead, and
also a large number of temples. These latter, dating mostly from
the New Empire, were dedicated to Ammon, the principal deity of
Thebes, and were also used in the worship of deceased kings. They
were adjoined by dwellings for the priests, libraries, and sometimes
schools. In the vicinity were groves and lakes, besides granaries,
stables for the sacriﬁcial animals, barracks for the guards, prisons,
etc. Close by lay villages inhabited by the numerous workmen
who found employment in connection with the cemeteries: masons,
painters, builders, and above all embalmers, to whose care the bodies
were committed. Gradually a whole city arose here, like the quarters
beside the tombs of the Mamelukes at Cairo. Under the New Em-
pire its management was placed in the hands of a special ofﬁcial,
known as ‘prince of the West and director of the workers at the
Necropolis’.

3. The Temple of Sethos I. at Kurna.
From the landing—place of the boat on the W. bank we ride ﬁrst
in a westerly, then in a northerly direction, and in 3/4 hr. reach
the *Temple of Sethos I., the front of which with its columns is

