UPPER EGYPT. 187

12th Day. Steam past G'ebel Silsileh (p. 320) to Kém Ombo
0/2 hr.’s halt; p. 3'23) and (583 M.) Aswan (p. 3‘27). Visit to the
island of Elephantine (p. 330) before dinner.

13th Day. Assudn, its bazaars, etc. Morning or afternoon visit
to the rock—tombs on the W. bank (p. 331).

14th Day. EXpedition to the island of Philae (p. 334).

15th Day. The return—voyage is begun, Luzor being reached
before dark.

16th Day. Karnak may be revisited; or the travellers may in—
spect the Necropolis of Thebes. Arrangements should be made the
day before with the dragoman or manager. The steamer starts
again at 11 a.m., and reaches Nag“ IIamddi (p. 2‘24) in the evening.

17th Day. Steam to Belidneh; excursion to Abydos (p. 218).

18th Day. Assiﬁf is reached in the afternoon. Train thence to
Cairo if desired.

19th Day. Steam to Gebelegﬁ-TE1-(p. 195). On the way, excur-
sion to Tell el—‘Amama (p. 203).

20th Day. Arrival at Cairo. Passengers may remain on board
until after breakfast on the following morning.

Holders of Cook’s tickets may break their journey at Luxor or
Assuan either on the way up or the way down (after previous ar—
rangement with Cook’s manager in Cairo), and proceed by a sub—
sequent steamer, if there are vacant berths. The mail—steamers,
usually less crowded than the others, may be used in descending
the stream. In all these deviations from the usual tours, very strict
adherence to the terms of the special arrangement is exacted.

Dahabiyehs. — Now that the visit to Upper Egypt is so much
facilitated by the railway and the regular services of tourist-steam-
ers, only those travellers to whom economy of time and money is
no object make the voyage in privately hired dahabiyehs or launches.
In Cairo the best dahabiyehs, comfortably and even luxuriously
ﬁtted up, are those belonging to Messrs. Cook (9 Son (4 steam—daha-
biyehs, 6 sailing dahabiyehs) and the Anglo-American Co. (3 large
and 2 small steam-dahabiyehs, several sailing dahabiyehs). The
inclusive charge, 8.9., for Cook’s excellent steam-dahabiyeh ‘Nito-
cris’, is 400l. per month for 4 pers., 550l. for 6, or 6751. for 8. These
prices include not only the hire of the dahabiyeh and its full
equipment and the wages of the re‘is or captain and the crew, but
also the services of a dragoman and attendants, and provisions (ex—
cept liquors), donkeys, saddles, and all the incidental expenses of
excursions (excluding bakshish). The charge for sailing dahabi-
yehs is, of course, less. In the case of head-winds small steam—tugs
may be hired for 6—81. per day.

The traveller may also hire a dahabiyeh directly, i.e. indepen-
dently of the agents, and take the commissariat into his own
hands, but this is not recommended to inexperienced travellers. A

