TempleofAmmon. THEBES LEBANK). 24. Route. 249

he even took away all; and he took away all the shields of gold which
Solomon had made‘. 2nd Chron. x11., 2-4 & 9: “And it came to pass,
that, in the ﬁfth year of Rehoboam, Shishak king of Egypt came up
against Jerusalem because they had transgressed against the Lord, With
twelve hundred chariots, and threescore thousand horsemen; and the
people were without number that came with him out of Egypt; the Lu-
him, the Sukkiim, and the Ethiopians. And he took the fenced cities
which pertained to Judah, and came to Jerusalem’. Verse 9 is the same
as the above passage from Kings. Of the name-labels only a few can be
identified with certainty with otherwise known names of places in Pa«
lestine, such as Rabbath (last ring of the ﬁrst row). Taanach, Shunem,
Rehob, Hapharai‘m; Mahanai‘m, Gibeon, Beth«Horon, Kedemoth, Ajalon
(in the second row). Several symbols have recently been obliterated by
the whitewash used to preserVe the wall, and some of the name<1abels
have also been destroyed, as e.g. Megiddo at the beginning of the third
row. The rest of the inscriptions, which are couched in the usual bom-
bastic style, give no farther information as to the campaign.

We return to the great court and proceed to the Second Pylon of
Ramses 1., which was built out of the materials of a temple of the
heretical period (comp. p. 237; isolated blocks bear the cartouches
of Amenophis III., Tut-enkh-Amon, and Eye). The left or N. tower
has fallen and the right or S. tower is sadly damaged. On the S. side
of the right tower appears Ramses II. defeating his foes in presence
of Ammon. In front of this pylon was a kind of small Vestibule,
the entrance to which was ﬂanked by two statues of Ramses II. The
ﬁgure on the right side still stands and displays excellent Work-
manship; beside the left leg is a ﬁgure of the Princess Bent-Anat.
Only the legs of the other ﬁgure remain. In the doorway, where
the cartouches of Ramses 1., Sethos I., and Ramses II. are found, an
intervening door was erected by Ptolemy VI. Philometor and Pto-
lemy IX. Euergetes 11., during their joint reign. The lintel and
upper parts of this doorway are wanting, but the jambs are in good
preservation, with eXpressions of homage to Ammon and his fellow-
gods. On the inner side (left) of the earlier doorway, at the foot,
are the sacred boat of Ammon and the king entering the temple.
In the second row from the foot appears Ramses II. kneeling before
Ammon and receiving the symbol of jubilee, indicative of long
reign. Behind stands the goddess Mut, while Khons, with the moon’s
disk on his head, conducts Philometor to behold the god Ammon.
Probably the representation is a restoration by Philometor of an
older work on the same Spot. The other rows exhibit the king in
presence of various deities. — We next enter the —

**Grea.t Hypostyle Hall. This imposing hall may certainly
claim to rank among the wonders of the world. Many of the columns
are prostrate, others lean as though on the verge of falling, and
architrave and roof—slabs have either fallen or seem on the point
of doing so. The indescribable effect produced by this enormous
structure is perhaps best appreciated if we place ourselves in the
wide doorway of the second pylon and look through the double row
of huge calyx—columns towards the sanctuary, i.e. towards the E.
The magic inﬂuence of the place is fully felt in the morning or

