HISTORY OF ART. cxxxv

simple ﬂower—column with bud-capitals and the same with calyx
capitals; and the clustered column with bud-capitals and the same
with calyx-capitals.

Of the various Lotus Columns, which seem to have been freely
used if we may judge from the numerous pictures of them, com—
paratively few have been preserved. Clustered columns of this kind
with bud-capitals occur under
the Ancient and Middle Em-
pires (in a tomb at Beniha—
san), but appear to have died _
out under the New Empire.
The above—mentioned column

'at Benil_1asan is formed of four
straight stems, rising from a
base resembling a mound of
earth and fastened together
at the top ,by bands (Fig. IV).
The capital is formed of closed
buds, the green sepals of which
extend quite to the top of the
White petals of the corolla.
Near the top of the shaft
smaller stems are. inserted
between the main stems.
Examples of clustered col—
umns of the Nymphaea lotus
with open (calyx) capitals
(Fig. III) are freqently repre-
sented in tombs of theAncient
and Middle Empires ; but they
occurmost frequently in build-
ings of the later period.

The Papyrus Columns are much more numerous. They differ
widely from the lotus—columns. The stems in the latter are circular
in section, while in the papyrus—columns they are triangular, and
moreover taper rapidly at the base, where they are encircled with a
wreath of pointed leaves —— characteristics that are wanting in the
lotus-columns. There is a difference also in the capitals; for the
sepals of the papyrus-ﬂower are much shorter than those of the lotus
and do not reach to the tips of the petals (see above). The simple pap-
yrus—column with a bud-capital is seen only in paintings and reliefs ;
whereas the clustered column is common enough (Fig. Va). The
latter usually consists of eight stems held together by bands at the
top, while between these stems smaller clusters of three, fastened
together by six bands, were inserted. These inserted stems, however,
lost their independent treatment at an early period.—-—Towards the
.close of the 18th Dynasty the clustered papyrus-column under—

 

 

 

 

 

 

