66 Route 5. TOMBS OF THE KHALiFs. Environs

ablution (Pl. 13)7 with a water—basin (méda). — One of the two
Minarets on the W. side was restored in 1900. Both had originally
three stories. — The mosque is one of the most perfect examples
of Arabian architecture in existence; and, notwithstanding its
ruinous condition, it still presents a most imposing appearance.

To the W. (right) of this tomb-mosque, within a walled court,
is the Tomb of Sultan Sulémc‘m ibn Selim (1526 A.D.), also called
the tomb of Sultan Ahmed, containing interesting sculpture in the
dome and inscriptions in blue fayence, now partly destroyed. To
the E. of this tomb (and to the S. of Barkuk’s mosque) is another
handsome dome—covered tomb, the founder of which is unknown.
On the right of the road leading to the S.W. to the Tomb of Igai't Bey
is the Ma’bed er-Riﬁt‘iyeh, a depressed dome of the Turkish period.

Opposite, to the E. (left), is the Tomb Mosgue (Hésh) ome‘sbey
(Berisbai; p. xovii), completed in 1431. It includes a mausoleum
and a building for the visitors to the necropolis, and a considerable
part of it is still to be seen. The liwﬁn contains good mosaics. The
dome of the mausoleum is interesting. The remains of an okella
and sebil are also extant. Farther on, to the right, is the Tomb of
the Mother of el-Ashrrﬁf (Umm el—Ashn‘tf), a small dome with a
narrow hexagonal opening.

In the same street, a few paces farther to the 8., we observe on
the right the Okella Kd'it Bey, 260 ft. long, completed in 1473, but
now in ruins. The facade is plain, but the gateway is very tasteful.

A little farther to the 8., projecting in an angle, is a public
fountain (P1. 16, p. 67), now in ruins and usually dry, also erected
by Kai't Bey. It adjoins the ruins of the administration buildings
of the tomb-mosque (P1. 14), the once beautiful rear-wall of which
is protected by a roof. The okella, the sebil, and the mosque all
belonged to the burial-place of Kai't Bey, which covered an area
330 yds. long. Its exact limits cannot now be determined, and a
number of modern buildings have been erected within them.

The *Tomb Mosque of {(5312 Bey (p. xovii), built in 1463 and
restored in 1898, is the ﬁnest ediﬁce among the Tombs of the
Khalifs. It is distinguished from all the others by its lofty dome
adorned with bands of sculpture, its slender minaret (135 ft. high),
its harmonious proportions, and its elaborate stalactite and other
ornamentation. In the interior we notice the beautiful marble
mosaic, the tasteful ceilings, the pulpit, and the kamariyehs (partly
new). Within the mausoleum (Pl. 8) are shown two stones, which
are said to have been brought from Mecca by Kai't Bey, and to bear
impressions of the feet of the prophet; a ﬁnely carved desk; and
beautiful ivory carvings in the canopy over the tomb.

With a visit to this mosque the traveller may conclude his in-
spection of the great necropolis. Those who are not fatigued may
now walk towards the Citadel (p. 51), examining the different
smaller monuments on the right and left. To the S. of the mosque _

