368 Route 33. IBRIM. From Korosko

231/2 M. Kabd, a village on the E. bank, off which lies a large
island known as Geziret Ibﬁm or Abu Rds. A little inland, behind
a grove of palms and the huts of Ellesiyeh, are several Rock Grottoes.
The largest of these dates from the reign of Thutmosis III. We ﬁrst
enter a chamber with a pointed roof. The representations on the
walls (much deﬁled by bats) show Thutmosis III. in intercourse with
various deities or sacriﬁcing to them. Among these deities is in-
cluded King Usertesen III., who was worshipped in Nubia as a god.
Behind is a vaulted room, with a recess containing three statues,
The inscriptions on the outside, beside the entrance and on the rocks
farther on, are more interesting. On each side of the entrance are
pompous inscriptions of Thutmosis 111.

()n the W. bank, about 11/2 M. inland from the village of Anibeh,
lies an interesting rock-tomb of the reign of Ramses VI. (20th Dyn.),
belonging to on ofﬁcial named Pennewt.

The Entrance is on the SE. side. On the left side of the doorway are
the deceased and his wife in prayer. —— 0n the right balt‘ of the Entrance
Wall is inscribed a record of the presentation oflands for the maintenance
of sacriﬁces to the statue of the king in the town of Mem (perhaps
Ibrim). -— E. Wall. In the upper row (from left to right): 1. The governor
of Ethiopia announces to Ramses VI. the gift of Pennewt; 2. The governor
inspects the statue of the king; 3. Pennewt, holding two anointing
vessels presented to him by the king. In the lower row are sacriﬁcial
scenes. — Rear (N.) Wall. To the right of the central recess, above: Pen-
newt, with his wife (holding a sistrum) and six sons, before the hawk-
headed Re-Harmachis, who is enthroned to the left. To the left of the
recess, in the upper row (from left to right): 1. Pennewt and his Wife
before the human-headed sun-god EE-Khepere; 2. Pennewt kneeling in
prayer before Hathor, goddess of the dead, who appears as a cow from
the mountains of the west; beside the mountain is To'e'ris, holding a
scarabaeus. In the lower row: 1. Pennewt and his wife before Ptah-
Sokaris; 2. The hawk-headed R’é-Harmachis beneath a canopy; 3. Anubis
and Thout pouring the consecrated water over Pennewt. — On the W. Wall
are scenes Irom the realm of the dead. In the upper row (from right to
left): 1. Anubis by the bier of the deceased, with lsis and Nephthys
mourning; 2. The hawk-headed Harsiésis conducts Pennewt and his wife
before Osiris, who is enthroned in a naos, with Isis and Nephthys behind
him. In the lower row are the ﬁelds 01 the blessed being tilled by the
dead. To the left is Pennewt praying before Re-Harmachis, Atum, and
Khepere. — 0n the lelt half of the Entrance Wall, in the upper row:
1. Anubis weighing the heart of the deceased and Thout recording the
result; adjacent are Pennewt and his Wife in prayer; 2. Pennewt before
a naos. In the lower row are the burial of Pennewt and friends taking
leave of the mummy. — At the back of this chamber is a recess with
three unfinished seated statues

Midway between Pennewt’s tomb and the river are the remains
of eight Pyramidal Brick Tombs, dating from the beginning of the
New Empire. One chamber still retains fragments of the original
paintings upon stucco that embellished the interiors.

A little above Anibeh (see above) a ﬂat-topped hill of some size
rises steeply from the Nile on the E. Upon this stands the partly
ruined fort of *Kasr Ibrim, dating from Roman times. A visit to it
is interesting.

Kasr Ibrim is identiﬁed with the Roman Prtmz's, which was one of the
mostimportant strategic points in Nubia. At the beginning of the 16th cent.

