34 Route 4. CAIRO. Street Scenes.

French troops at Cairo, where he was assassinated on 14th June,
1800. In 1801 the French garrison under Belliard, being hard pressed
by the grand-vizier, was compelled to capitulate. On 3rd August,
1805, Mohammed ‘Ali, as the recognised pasha of Egypt, took poss-
ession of the citadel, which for the last time witnessed a bloody
scene on 1st March, 1811, when the Mameluke Beys were massacred
by Mohammed’s order. The insurrection of ‘Arabi in 1882 scarcely
affected Cairo.

The **Street Scenes presented by the city of the Khalifs aﬁord
an inexhaustible fund of amusement and delight, admirably
illustrating the whole world of Oriental ﬁction, and producing an
indelible impression on the uninitiated denizen of the West. This
Oriental life seems to feel the atmosphere of the newer quarters
uncongenial, audit must therefore be sought for in the old Arabian
quarters, which are still mostly inaccessible for carriages, in spite
of the many new streets that have been constructed in Cairo of late
years. Most of the streets in the old part of the town are still un-
paved, and they are too often excessively dirty. Many of them are
so narrow that there is hardly room for two riders to pass, and the
projecting balconies of the harems with their gratings often nearly
meet. The busy trafﬁc in these streets presents an ‘interminable,
ravelled, and twisted string of men, women, and animals, of walk-
ers, riders, and carts of every description. Add to this the cracking
of the drivers’ whips, the jingling of money at the table of the
changers established at every corner of the street, the rattling of
the brazen vessels of the water—carriers, the moaning of the camels,
braying of donkeys, and barking of dogs, and you have a perfect
pandemonium’. It is not, however, until the traveller has learned
to distinguish the various individuals who throng the streets, and
knows their different pursuits, that he can thoroughly appreciate
his walks or rides. We may therefore give a brief description of
some of the leading characteristics of the different members of the
community.

From a very early period it has been customary for the Arabs
to distinguish their diﬂ‘erent sects, families, and dynasties by the
colour of their Turbans. And the custom still prevails to a certain
extent. The ‘Sherifs’, or descendants of the prophet, now wear
white turbans, though originally they wore green, the colour of the
prophet. Green turbans are now frequently worn by the Mecca
pilgrims. The ‘Ulama, or clergy and scholars, usually wear a very
wide, evenly folded turban of light colour. The orthodox length of
a believer’s turban is seven times that of his head, being equivalent
to the whole length of his body, in order that the turban may after-
wards be used as the wearer’s winding sheet, and that this cir-
cumstance may familiarise him with the thought of death. The
dress and turbans of the Copts, Jews, and other non-Muslim citizens,

