Shops. CAIRO. 4. Route. 29

the Arah Buildings Opposite Shepheard‘s S. garden (Boulevard Halim);
Zacharia ct" 00. (p. 28; agents for Bonﬁls’ photographs); Lekegian, Shari‘a
Kamel, near Shephcard‘s Hotel; Diemer (see p. 28). —— E. Brugsch—Bey, the
conservator of the Gizeh Museum (p. 78), has caused a number of the ob-
jects in the museum to be photographed. The photographs may be pur-
chased at thc museum and at Diemer's (see p. 28).

Photographic Materials. Zacharia ‘2- 00. (see above); Heyman at- 00.
(p. 28); Kodaks at both; ﬁlms supplied and plates developed.

European Wares. All the ordinary wants of the traveller may now
be supplied at Cairo. Clothing, shoes, etc., chieﬂy f0r the use of travellers,
are sold by Davies, Bryan, ‘9: 00., Shari'a el-Maghrabi, A. Mayer d;- 00.,
S. Stein, in the Muski, the Cordonnerie Franeaz'se, in the Ezbekiyeh, Karmann,
in the Muski and the Halim Building, and 0olligopoulos, near Shepheard‘s
Hotel. Ladies‘ requirements are sold by Petot, Cecile, and Frances. House-
hold requirements may be obtained from Paschal a- 00., in the Ezbekiyeh.
Good watchmakers and goldsmiths are Buys-Badollet and 0ent0nze, both
opposite Shepheard‘s; Siissmann, Kramer, J. Lattés,.in the Muski; Alexakis,
Ziry, in the Halim Building. Riﬂes and ammunition, etc., may be obtained
at. Bajocchi‘s, in the Ezbekiyeh. Opticians, Siissmann, Kramer, in the Muski.
Flowers at Stamm‘s, in the Hotel Continental, and Eggert’s, in Shepheard’s.
These shops are not mentioned to the exclusion of many others equally
good, but merely to give the traveller an idea of where to look for shops
to suit. him. As a rule the shops to the E. of the Exbekiyeh and in the
llluski are cheaper than those farther to the W., in the Shari'a Kamel; but
the goods in the latter (ﬁxed prices) are usually more modern and tasteful.

Wine, Preserved Meats, etc. Walker (0 Meinmrachi, Shari‘a VVagh el-
Birket; 00ngdon¢e 00., Shari‘a Kasren-Nil; Nicolas Zigadas, near Shepheard’s
Hotel; E. J. Fleurent, in the Halim Building; Spathz‘s, in the Ezbekiyeh;
Ablm‘s English Stores, in the Muski.

Tobacco (comp. p. xv). Syrian tobacco (Korz‘ani and Gebeli) is sold
at a shop in the Gami'a el—Benat (Pl. D, 4), near the Muski, but had better
be purchased in small quantities only. Turkish tobacco (Stambﬁli) and
cigarcttes are sold by Nestor Gianach‘s, Halim Buildings, beside Shepheard‘s
Hotel, Dimitrino, Mantzarz's, Cortesi, in the Ezbekiyeh, Opposite Shepheard’s;
Melachrino, Shari‘a el-Maghrabi 33; E. Lagnado d- 00., in the street beside
the Club Khédivial; G. Matossian, Shari‘a el—Ezbek. —— CIGARS at Flick’s
(Havana House), in the Hotel Continental, and at Mantzaris’s.

Arabian Bazaars, see pp. 38, 42. The most important for purchases
is the Khan el-Khalz‘l (p. 42). But strangers are to be dissuaded from
making purchases in these bazaars. Many so-called Oriental articles are
manufactured in Europe and are to be obtained at home equally genuine
and much cheaper. The prices demanded by the dealers for ‘antiques‘
are absurd, though unfortunately many travellers are foolish enough to
pay them. in spite of the notorious fact that most of the articles are forg~
eries (p. 234). A Special permit from the museum authOrities is required
by law for the export of antiquities, but may perhaps be diSpensed with
in the case of small articles. Comp. p. 78.

Arabian Woodwork is sold by Farris, an Italian, on the left side of a
court near the entrance to the Muski (p. 41). Strangers should not fail to
visit his interesting workshop, which they may do Without making any
purchase. Also, Hatoun, in the Muski; Farina, at Shepheard’s Hotel;
Mallulc, in the Muski, cheaper.

Oriental Embroidery. I). Madjar, near Shepheard’s Hotel; K. Ispenian,
A. Brimo, Place de l'Opéra; Joseph Cohen, Khan el-Khalil; Pohoomull Brothers,
opposite Shepheard‘s.

Carpets. D. Madjar, near Shepheard‘s Hotel; and in the Khan el-Khalil.

Goods Agents. John B. Caﬁ’ari, H. Crozz'er, H. Johnson .2- Sons, all three
in the Shari‘a Kaine]; Congdon (2' 00., Shari‘a Kasr en—Nil. Those who
make purchases in Egypt to any considerable extent are recommended
to send them home through the medium of a goods-agent, in order to
avoid custom-house examinations, porterage, and various other items of
expense and annoyance. The consigner should satisfy himself that the

