104 Route 6. MUSEUM OF GiZEH. Upper Floor.

ROOM 2. Articles from the tomb of Mai-her—peri, the fan-bearer.
In the centre: Large rectangular cofﬁn, with a lid shaped like a
gable —roof. Within this was a second, mummy-shaped cofﬁn
(black, with gilding), which contained a third of unpainted wood
(No. 94,003), with gilded face, hands, and inscriptions, and this
in turn enclosed a ﬁnal mummy- shaped cofﬁn of gilded wood
(No. 24,004, by the right wall). — Adjoining: 24,005. Wooden case
for the entrail-jars, in the form of a naos standing on a sledge. —
Glass Case: *24,059. Magniﬁcent bottle of coloured glass; blue
fayence dish; draught—board and men; armlet of ebony inlaid with
ivory; armlet of pieces of ivory painted alternately red, white, and
green; 44,073. Leathern gauntlet, for archery; *24,071. Leathern
quiver, with stamped ornamentation; arrows; leathern quiver, with
coloured ornamentation; 24,075, 24,076. Leathern dog—collars, one
bearing the animal’s name; vessels.

On the walls, beginning to the right of the entrance-door: 24,037-
24,046. Ten large jars with clay stoppers, containing saline materials
used in embalming. — Book of the Dead, with coloured vignettes. —
Sacriﬁcial offerings wrapped in ﬁne linen; the white painted boxes
in which they lie have the shape of slaughtered geese or portions of
meat. Vessels of earthenware and alabaster; four alabaster entrail-
jars, with the name of Mai-her—peri.

ROOM 3. Articles from the tomb of Amenophis II. The Show
Case in the centre contains ﬁgures of the dead in blue fayence, wood,
and stone (for the king and Prince Uben-snew); and magic wands
in blue fayence. The Adjoining Show Case contains fragments of
glass vessels, some showing the name of Amenophis II.

Between the windows: Alabaster cases with the entrail-jars of
Amenophis II. ,

By the wall to the right of the entrance are two Glass Cases.
One contains blue fayence vessels with the name of Amenophis II.;
fragment of an alabaster entrail—jar of Prince Uben-snew; portion
of a wooden carriage; fragments of chairs with lions’ feet and wooden
ﬁgures, including a good portrait-head of the king; large painted

pieces of wood shaped like % and ﬁ (similar objects in blue

fayence in other cases). — The second glass-case contains wooden
ﬁgures of the king, coated with bitumen; ﬁgures ofOsiris and Ptah;
two panthers; blne fayence vessels with the name of the king, several

in the shape of the hieroglyphic %; armlets of blue fayence; throw-

ing-sticks (for hunting birds).

By the opposite wall are Three Glass Cases. In the ﬁrst (next
the window) are blue fayence vessels; colossal bull’s head in wood;
royal serpent in painted wood; winged royal serpent with a woman’s
head—The serond case (in the middle of the wall) contains fa) ence

