390 Route 37. FASHODA.

Gowameh, and Kowahleh Arabs; Nubians, Fellahin, Jaalin. To
these must now be added Egyptians and Syrians, and a few Greeks.
The shopkeepers are mostly Dongolese. The number of women,
most of whom are well-built, is remarkably great. They wear loin-
cloths and usually have their hair elaborately dressed. The most
characteristic groups are to be seen at the various wells. The fashions
prevalent among the natives are very curious; as in their methods of
shaving, tattooing, and perfuming themselves, and otherwise alter-
ing their personal appearance. Elephantiasis is the most widely
spread disease; and sufferers from the fertit worm (ﬁlaria medinen-
sis) may occasionally be observed.

Short Excursions. To the (6 M.) Battleﬁeld of Kerrem‘ (p. 385), where
the bones of the dervishes still lie bleaching in the sun. Fragments of
weapons are occasionally picked up. This excursion is made on donkeys
or camels; large parties may hire a steamer.

To the Ruins of Saba. Saba, the capital of the Christian kingdom of
Alva, which existed until the middle ages, lies on the E. bank of the
Blue Nile, a day’s journey to the S. of Khartﬁm. — The ruins at Gebel
Mandera, in 14° 40' N. lat., between the Nile and the Atbara, were ex-
plored by Cailliaud in 1822 and by Riippell in 1825.

Longer Excursions to the S. Sudan

are mostly undertaken by sportsmen. The inhospitable steppes of Kor-
dofan swarm with game. The expense of such excursions is necessarily
great, and the equipment must be very carefully selected. Good camels
may be obtained through Saleh Gabriu, shékh of the Kababish Arabs at
01ndurmau.

FROM KuARTfJM TO EL-OBED, 8-10 days‘ journey. Special permission
must be obtained from the Civil Secretary at Khartﬁm. We ascend by
steamer (see below) to (110 M.) EdvDuém, on the W. bank of the White
Nile. Thence we ride, in 7 days, via (52 M.) Bt'r Helbeh. Bir Emma, and
(121 M.) Shegela, to (160 M.) Ban-a, which lies 30 M (a day’s journey) from
El-Obed, the capital of Kordofau. — We may return to Omdurmau by a
different route (9 days), known as the ‘Darb es-Sultaniyeh‘, via Homra,
Sheglg, and Hennélc. Two days short of Omdurman we pass the hills of
Ecl-Deyés, which abound in game.

FROM KHAurfJM 'ro FASHODA. A steamer plies twice a month up the
White Nile in 6-8 days (fares ist cl, 2? E 71/2, 2nd cl. 2‘E 4). Passengers
must provide their Own food. — 110 M. Ed-Duém (see above). 155 M.
Kawa, ou the E. bank, in an excellent sporting district (fares 2? E 2,
f E 1). —— 188 M. Abba Island, with memorials of the Mahdi. This is
the most picturesque stage on the voyage. — Near (250 M.) Gebbelén and
Reng, lions, buffaloes, and antelopes are found. —— 510 M. Fashoda-
Tewﬁkiyeh, ou the right bank of the White Nile, is the capital of the
province of Fashoda and the seat of the mudir. There is a hospital in
the town. Special passes are required for journeys farther to the S. In
the summer of 1901 a steamer-service was established by the ‘Sudan
Development Company’ of London.

FRoM KHAurfJM T0 SENNAAR, 175 M.,"steamer once a mouth upthe Blue
Nile. -— 70 M. Kamlz‘n has indigo-plantations and ruined dye-works. —-
125 M. dei Medina. — 175 M. Sennaar, on the left bank of the Blue
Nile, is 'the capital of the province of Senndar, in which agriculture
stands at a high level. —— 330M Rosm‘res, on the right bank of the river.
— There is little or no game in Sennaar until far above the capital, in
the wooded basins of the Binder and Balzad and on the head-waters of
the Blue Nile.

