224 Route 21. KASR ES-SAYAD. From Belic‘meh

The exterior of the S. wall is covered with a long inscription, recOunt-
ing the building of the temple and its endowments.

Near the village of El-Kherbeh, about 1/4 M. to the N. of the
Temple of Ramses 11., are the ruins of the ancient city and of a
Shrine of Osiris, dating back to the 12th Dynasty. — To the S. of
the latter are scanty traces of a second temple.

Farther to the W. lies a small fort, surrounded by two walls (the
outer wall the lower), named Shunet ez-Zebib, which probably served
as a place of defence against the incursions of the Beduins from
the W.

A Coptic Convent (more like a village) to the N.E. of this point, dating
from the year 1306 of the Coptic era, scarcely repays a visit.

The rubbish~mouuds at the foot of the hills, 1 M. to the S.W. of the
temple of Ramses 11., called by the Arabs Umm el-Ga”ab (‘mother of pots‘),
contain tombs of kings of the 1st and 2nd Egyptian dynasties, including
those of Usaphm‘s and Miebis (lst Dyn.). They were explored by Amelineau
and Flinders Petrie, but there is now practically nothing to be seen.

Near the village of Ghabat, to the S. of Abydos, is an ancient quarry.

21. From Belianeh to Keneh {Dendem} by the Nile.

Comp. Map, 11. 200.

65 M. STEAMBOAT upstrezln in 9 hrs., downstream 6 hrs.

Above Belianeh the course of the Nile lies almost due E. and W.
The Dz‘un Palm (Hyphaena thebaica) becomes more and more com-
mon and increases in size and beauty as we travel southwards (comp.
p. lix). About 4 M. from the S.bank lies Samht‘td, on ancient rubbish-
mounds. The Arabian Mts. approach close to the river.

28 M. Nagr Hamadi, on the W. bank, a town of 4400 inhab., is
a railway-station (p. 191). A large railway-bridge crosses the river
here (see p. 191).

31 M. H611 (W. bank), at one of the sharpest bends in the stream,
is a large but miserable-looking village. It was the home of Shékh
Selim, who died about 30 years ago, at a very advanced age, after
sitting stark naked for 53 years on the bank of the Nile at the Spot
now marked by his tomb. He was regarded by pious Moslems with
great honour and was deemed to possess great powers in helping
navigation. In the neighbourhood are the scanty ruins of the ancient
Diospolis Farm.

34 M. Kasr es-$a.yé.d (E. bank), a steamboat-station, is probably
the ancient Khenoboskion. Close to the bank is a steam-engine for

raising water.

About 41/2 M. to the E., near the village of Isba, among the Arabian
hills, are the Tombs of Princes of the Seventh Nome of Upper Egypt under
the 6th Dynasty. Donkeys may be obtained through the Shekh el-beled.

The large tomb situated farthest to the left is that of the nomarch
Zauti. The ceiling was left rough-hewn. Some of the small inscriptions
cut in the living rock near the entrance are in Coptic. The representations
on the .inside of the entrance-wall have been almost wholly destroyed,
but some ships may be distinguished to the right of the door. On the
right wall are ﬁgures bearing funeral gifts and a large sacriﬁcial table,
with a list of the gifts. In the rear-wall are two niches. That to the

