of Hathor. DENDERA. 22. Route. 229

enclosed sanctuary, within the large temple. We see here ﬁrst a
small storeroom, connected by a Corridor (Pl. i) with the W. stair-
case (p. 230). Thence we enter an open Court, beyond which is a
charming Kiosque, supported by two Hathor—columns and approached
by seven steps. Here the preliminary celebration for the chief func-
tion at Dendera, the great new year's festival, was conducted with
great splendour by the priests of Hathor. The walls of the kiosque
are embellished with three rows of representations, showing the king
and various deities in presence of the gods of Dendera. Just above
the ﬂoor is a procession of local deities (1., those of Lower Egypt,
r., those of Upper Egypt) bearing gifts. On the ceiling the sky
goddess Newt is depicted with the sun rising from her lap and
shining upon a head 0f Hathor that typiﬁes the temple of Dendera.

We now return to the second antechamber in order to visit
thence the innermost part of the temple, ‘the hidden secret cham-
bers’, as they are called in the inscription's.

The central door leads to the profoundly dark Sanctuary, in
which the sacred boats with the images of the gods formerly stood.
The king alone, or his sacerdotal representative, might enter this
sacred precinct and in solitude commune with the deity. Only
once a year was this permitted even to him, at the great festival of
the New Year. The reliefs on the walls depict the rites which the
king had to perform on entering the sanctuary, and the sacriﬁces
which he had to offer.

There are three rows of RaLmrs, but only the lowest can be distinctly
seen even with the aid of a candle or a magnesium lamp. The reliefs
are so arranged that each scene on the Left Wall (Pl. k), beginning at
the entrance, is followed in historical sequence by the corresponding scene
on the Right Wall (Pl. 1). 1 (left) The king ascends the steps to the shrine
of the gods; 2 (right) removes the band fastening the door; 3 (1.) breaks
the seals on the door; 4 (r.) opens the door; 5 (1.) gazes upon the god-
dess; 6 (r.) prays to her with his arms hanging down; 7 (1.) offers incense
before the sacred boats of Hathor and Horns of Edfu: and (8; r.) before
the boats of Hathor and Har-sem-tewé. -— Rear Wall (P1. In). To the left,
the king, before whom is the youthful son of Hathor with sistrum and
rattle, presents an image of the goddess Maat to Hathor and Horns; to
the left, the same ceremony before Hathor and Har—sem-tewe.

The Sanctuary is surrounded by a Corridor, lighted by aper-
tures in the side-walls and in the ceiling, and entered from the
second antechamber by means of two side-doors. Opening off this
corridor are 11 Small Chambers (Pl. i-xi), which were used as store-
rooms and for various rites. Room I, which is embellished with
reliefs like those in the Sanctuary, contained a shrine with an image
of Hathor.

Before ascending to the roof of the temple, we should visit the
subterranean chambers, or Crypts, which claim attention not only
for their remarkable construction but also for the fresh tints of their
paintings. The temple contains no fewer than 12 Crypts (or14
if we reckon separately the parts of those that are divided), con-
structed in the thickness of the temple-walls in different stories,

