258 Route 24. THEBES (EBANK). 2. Kamalc:

Thutmosis Il. Sethos I. restored the reliefs from which Ameno-
phis IV. (p. 203) had removed all allusions to Ammon; but he
frequently inserted his own name instead of replacing those of the
ancient kings.

N. SIDE. Left Tower (E.). 1. Sethos I. sacriﬁcing to various gods;
farther to the right, 2. Thutmosis II. (originally Makeré) before the lion-
headed goddess Wert-hekaw and Hathor; behind the king are priests
carrying the sacred boat ofAmrnon; beneath appears Thutmosis 1. before
the Theban triad. The inscription in front of this king refers to the
accession of Makeré. — Right Tower (W.), from left to right: 1. Sethos I.
(originally Makeré) before the hawk-headed Mont, who holds before him
the symbol for ‘life‘; behind are priests carrying the boat of Ammon;
beneath are two rows representing Ramses Ill. in presence of various
gods. 2. Thutmosis II. (originally Makers) before Ammon and Khons;
behind the king are the goddess Wert-hekaw and Thout, the latter writ-
ing upon a palm-leaf; beneath, Ramses III. before the gods. — On the Jambs
of the Central Doorway are inscriptions of Thutmosis III. and Thutmosis II.

On each side in the GATEWAY is Ramses ll. before various deities.

S. SIDE. LeﬂTower(W.). AmenOphis Il. seizing captured enemies by the
hair and smiting them with his club, before him is Ammon (inserted by
Sethos 1.). Right Tower (E.), a similar scene. — On the Door Jambs are
inscriptions of Thutmosis ll. (left) and Thutmosis III. (right). —- Leaning
against the right door-post is an inscription on red granite, recording the
Asiatic campaigns of Amenopliis II. The lower part is broken off. — On
the E. Side of the right (E.) tower are reliefs and inscriptions of high-
priests of Ammon in the reign of Sethos II.

Six colossal seated ﬁgures of kings were originally placed before
the S. side of this pylon. The best-preserved of these are: to the W.,
Amenophis I. (limestone) and Thutmosis ll. (red breccia); to the
E., Thutmosis 11. Both the ﬁgures of Thutmosis retain their lower
part only; an inscription on the back of that to the W. records
that Thutmosis III. restored it in the 42nd year of his reign.

The following Pylon IX, built by King Haremheb, has collapsed.
The reliefs and inscriptions (of Haremheb, Ramses IL, Ramses IV.,
and Ramses VI.) are of little interest. On the S. side are the remains
of two colossal statues, which Ramses II. ‘usurped’.

Between Pylons IX and X lies a square court, surrounded by a
wall, which is interrupted on the left (13.) side by the ruins ofa
small Temple of Amenophis II,

In front of the temple is a Gallery, borne by 14 square pillars em-
bellished with reliefs. Thence a granite portal admits us to a large Hall,
the roof of which rested on 16 square pillars with concave cornices at
the top. On the four sides of each pillar appears Amenophis II. before
some deity. This hall is ﬂanked by smaller chambers, two of which
have pillars like those of the main hall. Most of the sculptures on the
walls and pillars are executed in ﬁne low relief, only a few being in
sunk relief. Much of the colouring is in good preservation.

On the E. Wall of the court, to the right (8.) of the temple, are
several important reliefs of Haremheb. At Pl. d we see the king
conducting to the Theban triad a number of captives from the in—
cense—yielding land of Punt, who hear sacks of gold and gems and
other gifts. At P1. e, to the right of the door, the king appears
leading fettered Syrian captives before the Theban triad.

