.MEHALLET EL-KOBRA. 12. Route. 159

The sculptures (Itautreliefs and reliefs en crews?) are most elaborately
executed. Several of the female heads and busts, and some of the cows‘
heads also. are remarkably ﬁne. The inscriptions consist of the usual
formula; none of them are historical. In some the hieroglyphics are
unuSually large, in others they are of small and elegant form, and .in all
they are executed in the somewhat ﬂorid style peculiar to the age of the
Ptolemies. On the W. side of the ruins is an interesting large slab of
grey granite, veined with red, on which is represented the king offering
a gift of land to Osiris and Isis, ‘the great divine mistress‘. Higher up
there is another block of grey granite, with a representation of Isis en-
throned, and of the king offering to ‘his mother’ two small bags of mal-
achite and eye-paint. To the E. is another block of grey granite, with
reliefs. On a grey block of granite, lying in an oblique position, is re-
presented the sacred bark of Isis, resembling those seen elsewhere in
bronze only. The cabin is like a house of two stories, in the upper of
which sits the goddess, with cow‘s horns and a disk, on a lotus-ﬂower,
and attended on her right and left by winged goddesses. On the N. side
lies an unusually large Hathor capital, in granite. Numerous remains of
pillars and architraves also still exist.

On the N.W. side of the ruins of the temple lies the village of
Behbit, and adjoining it still exists the sacred lake of the temple.

12. From Tanta. to Damietta via Mansﬁra.

76 M. RAILWAY in 4-7 hrs. (fare 54 or 27 pias.).

Tonto, see p. 22. —- 81/2 M. Meltollet But is the junction for
Zifteh (see below) and for Desﬁk and Damanhﬁr (p. 21).

FROM MEuALLET Rﬁg T0 ZIFTEH, 181/2 M., branch-line in 1 hr.; fare
15 or 7 piastres. Stations: Karachiyeh, Gemzéh ( Guemmezeh), Sonya (Sammh),
and Zifteh, which lies on the left bank of the Damietta arm. Narrow-
gauge railway to Birket es-Sab'a (p. 23). — Opposite Zifteh, on the right
bank, lies Mz‘t Ghamr (p. 158). About 6 M. to the S., in one of the most
beautiful parts of the Delta, is the Tell Mokdam, with a ruined temple of
Osorkon 1L, perhaps on the site of the Leontonpoh‘s of Strabo.

161/2 M. Mehallet el-Kobra. (Meballet el-chir), a district capital
with 31,000 inhab., has numerous European houses, cotton-cleaning
mills, and an interesting old synagogue.

20 M. Rahbé‘n. — 22 M. Semem’id (Samanoud), an uninteresting
little town, on the site of the ancient Sebennytos (Egypt. Zheb—nuter,
Coptic Jemnuti), the birthplace of Manetho (p.1xxviii), is situated
on the Damietta arm of the Nile. 011 the opposite (right) bank is
Mit Semenﬁd (p. 157). — 251/2 M. Mit ‘Assas. — 311/2 M. Talkha is
the junction for a narrow-gauge line to Nabaroh, to be continued via
Tirch to Nemreh (p. 23). —— The train now crosses the Damietta arm,
by means of a handsome bridge, to (33 M.) Mansura. (p. 157).

On leaving Mansﬁra, the train recrosses the river to the left
bank,which it follows to Damietta. The land is carefully cultivated,
and we observe a number of steam-engines used for the irrigation of
the soil. —- 91 M. Batra. — 47 M. Shirb’in (Cherbinc), an insignif-

icant little town with a large station.

FROM Snmem 'ro KALiN, 50 M., branch-railway in 5|/2 hrs. — The ﬁrst
station of importance is Bassandtleh. The line crosses the Ballr Shibtn,
the main branch of the Damietta arm of the Nile, and beyond the stations
of Bellcas (9000 inhab.) and Biala, the Ballr Tirah. Stations Kafr esh-Shékh
(5590inhab.); Nashart. —. 50 M. 1mm (p. ‘21).

