356 Route 31. KALABSHEH. From Shettdl

column (with rich ﬂoral capital), on the S. side, is now erect 111
the side of the S. pylon— —tower next the court are two doors ,one (8.)
leading to a chamber, the other (N. ) to a staircase ascending through
three stories to the roof
(ﬁne view). The N. tower
also contains a staircase,
but the doors are now
blocked up. On each side
of the court four narrow
chambers have been con-
structed in the wall, and
a door in the N. colonnade
communicates with the
passage round the temple
and with a crypt. The
rear-wall of the court
forms the imposing facade
of the Hypostyle Hall,
which is entered by the
large portal in the middle.
Between the columns are
four screen-walls.

On the ﬁrst screen to the
left, Thout and Horus are
shown anointing the king
with the consecrated water,
typiﬁed by the hieroglyphs
for ‘life‘ and ‘purity‘. Adja-
cent sits Harsiésis of Talmis.

On the ﬁrst screen to the
right is a Greek inscription.
This is a decree of Aurelins
Besaiion, also named Amonius, military governor of Ombos and Ele-
phantine, ordering the owners of swine to remove their animals from
the holy Talmis It probably dates from the year 248 9 A D. —— 0n the
second column to the right are two Greek inscriptions, between which
is along inscription in the Meroitic cursive character (p. cix). —— The
most interesting inscription, however, is on the right corner of the facade.
This is the Memorial Inscription of Silko, sub king of the Nubians and all
the Ethiopians (ca. 5th cent A D), in which he celebrates, in bad Greek,
his victory over the Blemmyes, whom he defeated ‘frOm Primis to Talmis,
advancing as far as Taphis and Talmis.

The HYPOSTYLE HALL (Pl. 0) was supported by ‘12 columns, with
elaborate ﬂoral capitals, but of these only two, beside the four on
the facade, are now standing. The roof has collapsed. Most of the
reliefs on the rear (WJ wall represent the emperor sacriﬁcing to
the gods; two, to the left of the door, deserve notice. One shows
one of the Ptolemies presenting a ﬁeld to Isis, Mandulis, and a third
deity; the other represents Amenophis II., founder of the original
temple (p. 355), offering a libation of wine to Min and Mandulis.
On the screen-wall to the left of the entrance is a later Christian
painting of the Hebrew Children in the ﬁery furnace.

 

 

 

 

 

