214 Route 19. BUTiG. From Assmp

the tomb of the Nomm'ch Mesehti, on the hill above the Soldiers‘ Tomb;
here were found the soldiers now in the Museum at Gizeh (p. 79).

The geological formation of this hill of tombs is very interesting,
especially on account of the numerous specimens of Callianasse m'lotica
and other fossils found on its upper part.

About 8 M. to the S.W. of Assiut, on the slope of the Libyan Mts.,
is the Coptic convent of Der Bifeh, near which are several tombs of the
Middle and New Empires. These belong to princes and grandees of the
neighbouring town of Shas-Izotep (Shatb, see below), but be) 0nd some im-
portant inscriptions contain nothing of interest. About 2 M. to the N. of
Der liifeh is Dv‘r Dronkeh, with quarries and Coptic burial—inscriptions.

19. From Assiﬁt to Girgeh and Belianeh (Abydos)
by the Nile.

Comp. Map, p. 200.

99 M. The tourist-steamers lay up for the night at Sohag and in ascend-
ing the river pass Beliﬁneh without stopping.

The voyage from Assiﬁt to Akhmim leads through an extremely
fertile and well—cultivated district. Well-tilled ﬁelds, broader on the
W. than on the E., adjoin both banks of the river, and are shaded
by ﬁne palms and Nile acacias, especially near the riverside villages.
Here, as in most of Egypt, large quantities of pigeons are kept by
the peasants, chieﬂy for the sake of their droppings, which form the
only manure used in the ﬁelds, the dung of the cattle being dried
and used as fuel. Large pigeon—houses, not unlike pylons, are
visible in all the villages, and huge ﬂocks of pigeons are seen
wheeling in the air or settling like a dark cloud on the ﬁelds. Most
of these pigeons are of the common grey species, and attain a con-
siderable size, but many pretty little reddish-grey turtle-doves are
also seen. The pigeons really consume more than they produce, so
that their encouragement by the fellahin is rightly regarded as a
serious mistake in their husbandry.

El- Wasta lies nearly opposite Assiﬁt. In the Gebel Rekhém, to
the E. of the villages of Natfeh and Ghorayeb, is an alabaster quarry.

51/2 M. Shaghbeh {Chaghaba}, on the W. bank. Shut]; (Chotb),
which lies 3 M. inland near the railway, is perhaps the Egyptian
Shas—hotep, the Greek Hypselis, capital of the Hypselite nome. The
chief deity here was the ram-headed Khnum (necropolis, see above).

15 M. Butig or Abutig (rail. stat., p. 191), an agricultural town
on the W. bank with 11,000 inhab. and a small harbour ﬁlled with
Nile-boats, lies in the ancient Hypselite nome. The present name
is probably derived from the Greek name of Anoﬁﬁx’q (Apotheke),
i.e. Storehouse.

Near the E. bank is Badcm' (7850 inhab.); on the W. bank follow
the steamboat and railway stations (21 M.) Sedfa and (271/2 M.)
Tem .

‘ Igear Budm-i, 21/2 M. from the Nile, are several rude r0ck-tombs with-
out inscriptions. Farther lo the 5., near Rdhineh, arc four large quarries
in the hard limestone rock. Near Humamiyeh, in the steep side of the rocky

hill, are three rock-tombs, one above another, containing inscriptions and
representations, belonging to the royal ofﬁcials Afa and Kakcs.

