16 Home 2, ALEXANDRIA. Museum.

glass from the Fayﬁm and from Thebes. QQ, Mummy masks of painted
plaster from the Fayﬁm (2nd cent. A.D.)-, 2349. Beautiful head of a youth
from Gabbari (middle of 2nd cent. A.D.). RR, Bronze mirrors, objects
in gold and silver, cut stones, glass. -— Then, TT, Three mummies
from the Fayﬁm, in wooden cofﬁns (2nd cent. A.D.); the narrow bandages
are arranged in tasteful patterns. VV, Colossal marble arm, probably from
the honorary statue of an emperor, t‘rom Benha (Athribis; p. 23); AAA,
BBB, Sleeping Cupids or Grenii ot‘Death; DDD, Painted stucco doorway
of a tomb.

Room II. In the middle, Colossal seated marble statue of Zeus Serapis.
——- D, Apollo 0n the Omphalos; E, Bellerophon upon Pegasus. — This and
the following three rooms contain also the Collection of Alexandria” Coins
trom the time of Alexander the Great to the conquest of Alexandria by
the Arabs, and the Collection of Stamps from Greek Amphorae, with the
names of the manufacturers.

Room III (to the right ofR. II). Tombstones resembling Attic steles
of the 11th cent., some painted, others with reliefs, some merely with the
names in red paint. —- Cast of the Rosetta Stone (p. 20). -— We return
through Room II. to ——

Room IV. 0 185. Colossal ﬁgure of a woman seated beside a standing
_\'outh(tomb-monu1nent). ~ Marble heads. —— F 176 Limestone tomb-relief
of a boy holding a goose with one arm and playing with a dog. — To the
right: ‘R 188. Base of candelabrum, a ﬁne specimen of archaistic work.

Room V. In the middle: G, Head of a young warrior, with helmet;
K, Colossal head of one of the Ptolemies with the Egyptian headgear;
Limestone relief dedicated to Demeter, Sex-apis, Hercules, Isis, and Osiris
(the last represented as a serpent with the double crown of Egypt, and
Isis as a serpent with the solar disk and the sistruin). T0 the right,
Colossal bust of Isis. — Returning through RE. I and II, we proceed to ~—

Room VI. Pedestals, memorial stones, and tombstones bearing Greek
or Latin inscriptions from the Ptolemaic period down to the reign of Con—
stantine. Tombstones of Roman soldiers. 109-208. Coptic tombstones from
Upper Egypt, with peacocks, palms, and other decorations, the inscriptions
often close with the words ‘be not sad; no one on the earth is immortal”. —
In the centre: ”370. Lifesize ﬁgure of Apis in granite, with dedication to
Serapis by Emp. Hadrian (on small pillar below); 369. Large pink granite
scarabaeus, found beside Pompey’s Pillar; 373. Ramses II. kneeling and
holding a vase; 376. Osiris placing his hands on the shoulders of Ramses II.
— The Table Cases contain papyri of the Ptolemaic, Roman, and Byzan-
tine periods.

Room VII. In the centre : Colossal pink granite statue, with the names
of Ramses II. and his son Merenptah; at the side, his consort; from Abukir.

Room VIII (to the left of R. VII). Mummies of a. late period in
wooden cofﬁns. Rude stone cofﬁns. — *3. Fine bas-relief of the Saitic
period, with a man in a ﬂowing robe, a harper, and six singing-women.

Room IX. 9. Seated ﬁgure of the lion-headed goddess Sekhmet, ded-
icated by Amenophis III. in the temple of Mut at Karnak (p. 259); 32.
Sacriﬁcial tablet, 18, 27. Remains of two granite ﬁgures of Ramses II. —-
Two wooden mummy—cases from Dér el-bahri.

Room X. Case 0. Above: bronze, wooden, and fayence ﬁgures of gods,
goddesses, and sacred animals (Isis with the infant Horus; Osiris; Har-
pocrates; Apis 3 Thout; Nephthys, Anubis ; baboon). —— Case 1). Sacred cats
and hawks; gilt Uraeus—snakes. -— Case E. Bronze and fayence ﬁgures of
gods and animals. Hieratic and demotic papyri. —- Case H. Figures of the
dead in green and blue glazed fayence. — Case J. Alabaster vessels. —
Case L. Bronze ﬁgures (Harpocrates, Ammon, Isis, King praying, sacred
fish). —— Table Case 0. Armlets, necklaces, rings, ﬁllets, scarabaei, and
amulets in fayence. - Table Case P. Gold ornaments of the Ptolemaic,
Roman, and Byzantine periods.

Room XI. Limestone sarcophagi from Abulgir, Hadra, and Kom esh-
Shukafa. The stiff seated and standing ﬁgures of basalt re resenting
priests, are pwrtially named (Pete-ésis, Ptolemy, Irenzeus). ‘3 . Bearded

