332 Route 29. ASS PAN. Rec]: Tombs.

On the W. bank, to the N. of Elephantine, rises a hill, crowned
with the tomb of a Shékh, in which are excavated the *Rock Tombs
of the princes and grandees of Elephantine. These, most of which
were opened in 1885-86 by Sir F. Grenfell, date from the close of
the Ancient Empire and from the Middle Empire and are therefore
contemporary with the tombs at Benihasan, which they resemble
both in construction and decoration. The more important tombs
are now kept closed. Tickets should not be forgotten.

We cross the river in a small boat (there and back, 5 pias. each
person). From the landing-place we ascend a sandy path, which
reaches the top at Tomb 31. The ancient staircase, hewn in the
rock and consisting of two parallel ﬂights of about 85 steps, with an
inclined plane between them up which the sarcophagi were drawn,
is now covered by the sand. The view from the tombs is ﬁne.

We begin with Tomb No. 25, belonging to Mekhu. This dates
from the 6th Dyn.; and both its construction and decoration are
somewhat crude. It contains 18 somewhat roughly worked columns
in 3 rows. Between two columns opposite the entrance is a stone
table with three legs, which was perhaps used as an altar. On the
rear-wall, opposite the entrance, is a door-shaped stcle, within a
recess approached by steps and closed by a screen—wall. The re—
presentations on the walls and columns show the deceased receiving
various votive gifts. To the right of the entrance offerings are being
made to the deceased; to the left of this are agricultural scenes
(ploughing ; harvest; asses bringing home the harvest). —- Adjoining
is Tomb No. 26, belonging to Sabni, son of )lekhu. The remark—
able entrance is divided by a cross-beam into two parts — the
door proper and a window above it. The tomb chamber, with
14 square pillars, is of little interest. A relief on the Rear Wall
represents the deceased in a boat, accompanied by his daughters,
hunting in the marshes: to the left he appears holding the javelin
in his right hand and the slain birds in his left; to the right he
appears harpooning two ﬁsh at a blow; in the middle is a papyrus—
thicket with birds hovering about it.

Climbing up to the right (N) from this tomb, we pass several
others (Nos. 27, 29, 30] which are sanded up, and reach —

No. 28, that of Heka-yeb (locked). In the small chamber is a
representation of the deceased as a negro, with a dark-brown skin.
— Farther on is ~—

*No. 31, the ﬁne tomb of Si-renpowet, son of Satet-hotep, and a
prince under Amenemhet II. Beyond a narrow Passage follow a Hall
with 6 square columns (without decoration) and then a Corridor
(locked) with three recesses on each side. Each of these recesses
contains a statue of the deceased in the guise of the Osiris mummy.
Before the ﬁrst on the left side appears the deceased followed by
his son. At the end of the corridor is a small Hall, with four pil—
lars, on each of which annparg fhn'ﬂeceaseﬂ. The lines dividing the

