oiv

V. Hieroglyphics.
By Professor G. Stemdorﬁ’ of Leipsic.

Repeated attempts were made during the 17th and 18th centuries
to decipher the peculiar picture-writing of the ancient Egyptians,
the learned Jesuit father Athanasius Kircher (1601-80) being
among the earliest to take up the subject. It was not, however,
until the beginning of the 19th century that the key was found,
though Sacy, a Frenchman, and Akerblad, a Swede, had previously
attained a certain amount of success in their efforts to ﬁnd the clue.
Dr. Thomas Young, an English scholar, and Francois Champollion,
a Frenchman, succeeded about the same date (viz. in 1819 and in
1822) in discovering the long—sought alphabet from a careful com-
parison of royal cartouches. Champollion afterwards followed up his
initial discovery withsuch success that he may fairly rank as the real
interpreter of the Egyptian hieroglyphics.

The ﬁrst clue was afforded by the famous ‘Rosetta Stone” (now in the
British Museum), discovered in 1799 in the Fort St. Julien at Rosetta.
This tahlet of basalt bears three inscriptions: one in the ancient Egyptian
language, written in hieroglyphics, one in the popular language of a
later period inscribed in demotic characters, and a third in Greek; hut
the two last are merely translations of the ﬁrst. The subject of the triple
inscription is a decree of the Egyptian priests issued in 196 8.0. in honour
of Ptolemy V. Epiphanes. The ﬁrst step towards deciphering the hiero-
glyphics was made when it was ascertained that the frequently occurring
groups of signs each enclosed in an oval (so-called cartouche) were the
names of kings and that the name of Ptolemy must be found among them.

Champollion and his successors established the phonetic signi—
ﬁcation of a large number of hieroglyphic symbols, and it then be-
came possible, from a knowledge of Coptic, the latest form of .the
ancient Egyptian language, not only to read but also to interpret
the inscriptions. H. Brugsch, who led the way to the complete
interpretation of demotic texts, was also the ﬁrst to point out that
in hieroglyphic writing, as in the Semitic systems of writing, only
the consonants were inscribed, while the vowels were omitted as
not essential.

The Egyptian hieroglyphics form a system of picture-writing,
in which concrete objects were originally expressed by pictures re-
presenting them; 6.9.

‘Face’ {M Q ‘Eye’ yrt @-
‘Moon’ y‘h A ‘Sun’ 7" Q

‘Pigeon’ w% ‘Plough’ hb’ 1 p
Abstract ideas and verbs were represented on the same principle
by the use of pictures of objects suggesting in some sort the idea
to be expressed. Thus the idea ‘to rule’ hlc’ was expressed by the

picture of a sceptreT, ‘south’ rs’ by a lilygﬁi, the botanical emblem
of Upper Egypt, ‘to ﬁnd’ gmy by an ibis feeding (1%, etc.

