xxxii GEOGRAPHICAL NOTICE.

provinces of Lower Egypt are: (1) Kalyﬁb, at the head of the Delta;
(2) Sharkiyeh, 2'.e. ‘the eastern’, with Zakazik as its capital; (3)
DaIchaliyeh, with Mansﬁra as its capital; (4) Menafiyeh; (5) Ghar-
beeh, i.e. ‘the western’, with Tanta as its capital; (6) Behé/reh, i.e.
‘of the lake’, with Damanhﬁr as its capital. The last includes the
oasis of Siwfl. The following capitals and commercial towns are
presided over by governors (mohﬁfez) of their own, and are indepen-
dent of the provincial administration : Cairo, Alexandria, the Isthmus
and Suez, El-‘Arish, and Damietta. The eight Upper Egyptian
provinces are those of Gizeh, Beniguéf, Fayt‘tm, Minyeh, Assial (with
the oases of Dakhel and el-Khargeh), Girgeh, Keneh, and Assuﬁn.

The chief ofﬁcial in every province is the Mudir. Each mudir
and mohafez is assisted by a council, or ‘diwan’, of other ofﬁcers.
This council in the provinces consists of a Welcil, or vice-governor;
a chief clerk, tax-gatherer, and accountant, who is always a Copt;
a Kddi, or supreme judge, and the chief authority in spiritual mat-
ters; sometimes the president of a chamber of commerce and chief
authority in civil affairs; a superintendent of police; an architect
for the supervision of canals and other public works; and lastly the
chief physician of the province. The provinces are subdivided into
districts, called Markaz, the chief ofﬁcials of which (Ma’mﬂ'r) are
directly subordinate to the mudir and have their ofﬁcial residence
in the more important towns. Subordinate to the ma'mur again is
the 'Omdeh, or chief magistrate of the Nahiyeh, or commune, which
may be either rural or urban. In the larger communes the ‘omdeh
is assisted by the Shélch el-beled, or mayor. The larger towns are
divided into quarters each of which has its magistrate, several such
quarters form an urban district under the jurisdiction of a Shélch et—
tumn, or prefect, corresponding in rank to the governor of a provincial
district.

According to the census of 1897 the POPULATION of Egypt proper
was 9,734,405, of whom 9,090,404 were settled (as compared with
6,533,261 in 188?), 601,427 were Beduins. and 112,574 were
foreigners. The numbers of males and females were approximately
equal. The settled population was distributed in 3692 towns and
villages and 14,449 hamlets, farms, etc. Taking the cultivable area
of the country into account (see p. xxxi), the above ﬁgures show a
pOpulation of 750 per square mile, a density unequalled by any
country in Europe (Great Britain 330 per sq. M.; Belgium 520
per sq. M.).

b. Origin and Present Condition of the Egyptians.
By Dr. G. Schweinfurth of Cairo.

For thousands of years the banks of the Nile have been occupied
by the Egyptians. Notwithstanding the interminable series of
immigrations and other changes affecting the character of the
inhabitants, the Egyptian type has always predominated with mar-

