DAMANHI‘JR. 3. Route. 21

The Lake Mareotis, or Mai-em, as it was also called in ancient times,
bonnds Alexandria on the S. side. In Strabo‘s time it was ﬁlled from the
Nile by means of numerous canals, both from the S. and E., which
brought great trafﬁc to this inland harbour, while the sea-harbour was
more important for the export trade. The lake, which lies 8 ft. below
the sea—level, was once surrounded by a luxuriantly fertile tract of
country, yielding excellent white wine, which has been extolled by
Horace and Virgil. During the Arabian and Turkish regime the waters
of the lake gradually subsided, but in 1801, during the siege of Alexan-
dria, the English cut through the neck ofland between the lake and the
sea, a little to the W. of Abukir, thus laying an extensive and fertile
region under water and destroying about 150 villages. Mohammed 'Ali
did all in his power to repair the damage and to improve the environs of
Alexandria, but 100,000 acres of cultivable land are said still to be covered
by the sea. The water is now evaporated for the sake of its salt.

At (17 M.) Kafr ed-Dawc‘zr the ﬁrst cotton-ﬁelds appear (on the
right).

A narrow~gauge loop-line diverging here (three trains daily) serves
the villages of Sidz' Ghazi, Kant el-Hzmash, Abu el—Matdmir, Hdsh 1.9311 (2200
inhab.), and Nediba, and rejoins the main line at Damanhﬁr (see below).

Several Arab villages are seen from thelofty railway-embankment.

381/2 M. Damanhﬂr (Railway Hotel), the second station at which
the express stops (reached in 1 hr), and the capital of the pro-
vince of Behéreh, with 22,100 inhab. , was the ancient Egyptian
TimE—en—Hor (city of Horus), and the Roman Hermopolis Parva.
The town lies on an eminence and contains some tolerably sub-
stantialbuildings. Among them are several manufactories for the
separation of the cotton from the seeds, and above them tower
several minarets. The Arabian cemetery lies close to the railway.

FROM DAMANHI‘IR T0 ManALLEr Ring, 46 31., railway in 4 hrs. (fares 36,
18 pias.). — Beyond Sanhﬁr and Rnbmdniyeh the train crosses the Rosetta
arm of the Nile. — 13 M. Deska, a town with over 7000 inhab., on the
right bank of the Rosetta arm. -— Farther on we cross several canals. At
Kali/z (Kell‘ine) diverges the branch-line for Shirbin (p. 159). — Several small
stations. — 46 M. Mepallet Rah. lies on the railway from Tanta to Mansura
(p. 159). — Damanhur is also the startingepoint of several LIGHT RAILWAYS:
1. To Teh el—Bdrﬁd (see below) via Ettehad (branch to Kﬁm Fez-(En) and
Dcl'ingat (branch to Tad). H 2. To Teh el-Bdrnd viz). Shubmkhit (2746 inhab.),
on the Rosetta arm of the Nile (branch to Mim'et Saldmeh) and Shandid (see
below). —— 3. To Zarlcan and ‘Ayf (p. 22). — 4. To Kafr ed—dedr (see above).

48 M. Saft el-Melzik. About 3 M. to the S.E., near the modern
Nebireh (Nebeimh), on the ancient Canopic arm of the Nile, lie the
ruins of Naucmtis, a Greek commercial city, founded by Aahmes.
The ruins, discovered by Prof. Flinders Petrie and excavated in
1885, do not repay a visit.

531/2 M. Teh el-Bdmd, a village with a large mound of ruins,
is the junction for a branch-line skirting the W. coast of the Nile
delta. None of the express-trains stop here.

This branch-line is an alternative route to Cairo, but is of no im-
portance to tourists. There are only two trains daily (in 31/2 hrs.). The
stations are insigniﬁcant. The last one is Embdbeh (p. 76), beyond which
the line crosses the Nile by an iron bridge and enters Cairo (p. 24).

LIGHT RAILWAi's run to Damanhﬂr viz). Delingut or Shubrakhit (see
abovr) and to Kafl- ‘Awdneh via S/zandid (see above).

