ART GIFT-BOOKS.

A SERIES OF FIRST-CLASS AND RIONLY ILLUSTRATED BOOKS ON
NATURE AND NATURAL HISTORY.

 

 

‘1'- BIRD WORLD—DESCRIBED WITH PEN AND PENCIL
By the Author of “The Arctic World,” inc. Beautifully Illustrated with
Fifty-One Full-page and upwards of One Hundred other Engravings, from
designs by Graconnnnr, and engraved by Rouget, Berveiller, Méaulle,
Sargent, Whymper, and Morison. Imperial 8vo, full gilt side and gilt
edges. Price 10s. 6d.

Not intended to usurp the place of a manual of zoology; but in language
full of beauty and tenderness, it presents us with sketches of bird life.
Beautiful as many parts of the text are, the chief charm of the hook lies in
the illustrations which adorn its pages. They were drawn and engraved ex-
pressly for this work, and from their admirable ﬁdelity to nature, their com-
bined grace, and strength, and delicacy, constitute the claim of the present
volume to the public favour.

THE BIRD. By J nus Mrcnxns-r, Author of “ History of France," «to.
Illustrated by Two Hundred and Ten Exquisite Engravings by Graoonnm.
Imperial 8vo, full gilt side and gilt edges. Price 10s. 6d.

Not a book of ornithological science, but a history of the Bird in its most
picturesque and poetical aspects, from the egg in the nest to the “ triumph
of the wing” in the sea-eagle. We have described here birds of the Polar
Regions, and of the Tropics; birds of passage, birds of prey; the song of the
nightingale and of the robin, dtc. The exquisite illustrations introduce
varied kinds of landscape scenery.

TEE INSECT. By J nus Mrcmn'r. With One Hundred and Forty mus-
trations, drawn specially for this edition by Gnoonnnm, and engraved by
Bouget, Berveiller, Méaulle, J onnard Whymper, Sargent, and other
eminent Artists. Imperial Svo, cloth, richly gilt. Price 10s. 6d.

This volume treats of the poetry rather than the science of entomology.
Three “ books " describe groups of insects, in regard to their metamorphoses,
their industries, their social communities. The beautiful illustrations com-
bine flowers and landscapes with insect life.

FOR THE YOUNG.

THE WORLD AT HOME: Pictures and Scenes from Far-oft
Lands. By Manx and Emans'rn Krnnv. With One Hundred Engrav-
ings. Bmalltto, giltedges. Priceds.

A book for the young, containing, in a number of short conversational
sections, a great variety of geographical information, facts of natural history,
and personal adventure; intended to bring the world, so full of wonders, to
our own ilresides.

THE SEA AND ITS WONDERS. By M. and E. Krnnr. ' With
One Hundred and Seventy-four Illustrations. Small 4to, gilt edges. Price 6s.

A book for the young, not strictly scientiﬁc. but giving, in a conversational
style, much varied information regarding the sea, its plants and living in-
habitants, doc.

'1'. "m0! “D IONS, LONDON. EDINBURGH, AND N" YORK.

 

 

