ART GIFT-BOOKS.

4| 853158 OF FIRST-CLASS AND HIGHLY ILLUSTRATED BOOK8 ON
NATURE AND NATURAL HISTORY.

 

 

THE BIRD WORLD—DESCRIBED WITH PEN AND PENCIL.

By the Author of “ The Arctic World, ” 6m. Beautifully Illustrated with
Fifty-One Full-page and upwards of One Hundred other Engravings, from
designs by Gracounnu, and engraved by Rouget, Berveiller, Méaulle,
Sargent, Whymper, and Morison. Imperial 8vo, full gilt side and gilt
edges. Price 10s. 6d.

Not intended to usurp the place of a manual of zoology; but in language
full of beauty and tenderness, it presents us with sketches of bird life.
Beautiful as many parts of the text are, the chief charm of the book lies in
the illustrations which adorn its pages. They were drawn and engraved ex-
pressly for this work, and from their admirable ﬁdelity to nature, their com-
bined grace, and strength, and delicacy, constitute the claim of the present
volume to the public favour.

THE BIRD. By J truss MronnLn-r, Author of “ History oi France,” die.

Illustrated by Two Hundred and Ten Exquisite Engravings by Gucounnm.
Imperial 8vo, full gilt side and gilt edges. Price 10s. 6d.

N at a book of ornithological science, but a history of the Bird in its most
picturesque and poetical aspects, from the egg in the nest to the “triumph -
of the wing” in the sea-eagle. We have described here birds of the Polar
Begonia, and of the Tropics; birds of passage, birds of prey; the song of the
nightingale and of the robin, M. The exquisite illustrations introduce
varied kinds of landscape scenery.

THE INSECT. By J ones Mom. With One Hundred and Forty Illus-

trations, drawn specially for this edition by Gnoonnnm, and engraved by
Rouget, Berveiller, hieaulle, J onnard, Whymper, Sargent, gd other
eminent Artists. Imperial 8vo, cloth, richly gilt. Price 10s. 6d.

This volume treats of the poetry rather than the science of entomology.
Three “ books " describe groups of insects, in regard to their metamorphoses,
their industries, their social communities. The beautiful illustrations com-
bine ﬂowers and landscapes with insect life.

 

FOR THE YOUNG.

THE WORLD AT HOME: Pictures and Scenes from Far-of

Lands. By Many and Emannrn KIBBY. With One Hundred Engrav-
ings. Small 4to, gilt edges. Price (is.

A book for the young, containing, in a number of short conversational
sections, a great variety of geographical information, facts of natural history,
and personal adventure; intended to bring the world, so full of wonders, to
our own ﬂresides.

THE SEA AND ITS WONDERS. By M. and E. KIRBY. With

One Hundred and Seventy-four Illustrations. Small 4to, gilt edges. Price 6s.

A book for the young, not strictly scientiﬁc, but giving, in a conversational
style, much varied information regarding the sea, its plants and living in-
habitants, cc.

 

T. NILBON AND SONS, LONDON, EDINBURGH, AND NEW YORK.

