4. N. Quarters. CAIRO. 4. Route. 59

4. The Northern Quarters.

The following section deals principally with the interesting ediﬁces in
the NE. part of Cairo, to the N. of the Sikkeh el-Gedideh, the continua-
tion of the Muski (p. 41). The route here described is thus a direct con-
tinuation of that described in Section 2. -— The N.W. portion of Cairo
(p. 41) contains little of interest.

From the Sikkeh el-Gedideh (Rue Neuve), opposite the Gami'a
el-Ashraf (Pl. E, 3; p. 42), we enter the Shdri‘a el-Khordagiyeh
(P1. E, 3), which begins at the Sebil of Shélch Motahhar, dating from
1700. This street, with the Shari‘a en-Nahhasin to the N., is the
continuation of the great line of thoroughfares which runs from the
Bab ez-Zuwéleh on the S. to the Bab el-Futﬁh (p. 62) on the N.

To the right lies the entrance to the Khan el-Khalil (p. 42),
nearly opposite which is the $1115 es-SAigh (pl. Siydgh), or bazaar
of the gold and silver smiths, which consists of several crooked
lanes, barely a yard in width. The occupants of these crowded
alleys keep their wares in glass-cases or under glass shades. Their
stalls present a very poor appearance, but their ﬁligree-work is
sometimes very good. Spurious gold and silver wares are not un-
frequently sold as genuine. The silver manufactured at the shops
ought to bear a government stamp,indicating the number of carats.

From this labyrinth of lanes we return to the Shari‘a el-Khor-
dagiyeh, which is prolonged by the Shdri‘a el-Géhergiyeh and the
Shdri'a en-Nahbdsin. The last contains the uninteresting market
of the coppersmiths. Several pipe-makers (shibulcshi) are also
established here. On the left side of this street are the imposing
red and white facades of the mosques of Maristdn Kaldﬁn, Mo-
hammad en—ngn'r, and Barlodlciyeh (p. 60), which occupy what was
once the site of a small palace of the Fatimite sultan Mu'izz.

Opposite is the broader Shdri‘a Bét el-Kddi, leading to the Bét
el-Kadi (Pl. E, 3), or ‘House of the Judge’, originally a palace of
Emir Mamay, a general of Kait Bey. In the large court on the
right is an open verandah, resting on columns with early Arabian
capitals. This is the entrance to the building in which the kadi
holds his court on Sat. (at 4 pm. Arab time). This court was
formerly the supreme tribunal of the country, and the appointment
of kaidi was made by the government at Constantinople, and was
frequently bestowed upon favourites, as it is a. very lucrative post.
Now, however, the kadi is always an Egyptian, and his jurisdiction
is limited to cases in which the law laid down by the Koren is to
be administered, and particularly to actions between husband and
wife. -— We now return to the main street.

The mosque of MtristAn Kaléﬂn (Pl. E, 3) was once a vast
hospital, the greater part of which is now in a ruinous condition,
and used as a workshop by copper-smiths and tinkers. The tomb of
the founder, however, and the small mosque opposite (recently

restored) are tolerably preserved. The building, begun by Sultan
pl— [Unnsﬂrr anr’ii’i/n. (n vnvi) in 4985 and ﬁnie'hnﬂ 11v his 'enn Niacin-

