ofGtzeh. . THE SPHINX. 8.Route. 123

12% ft. broad, and, owing to the unevenness of the rock from which the
pavement has been removed, varies from 13 ft. to 13 ft. 5in. in height.

In the pavement of the chamber e is the mouth (formerly covered) of
a shaft 30 ft. in length, which has a ﬁne granite lining at its upper end
and could be closed by a trap-door at its lower end. It is continued by
a. horizontal shaft, 10 ft. in length, to the Tomb Chamber (Pl. 2'). Imme-
diately before the latter is reached, a ﬂight of seven steps leads to the
right to a chamber with recesses on the right and back walls. The tomb
chamber is paved with blocks of granite, 21/2 ft. in thickness, and its
ceiling has been formed by placing the stones against each other at an
angle so as to resemble a roof, and then hollowing them out on the inside
in the form of a Gothic arch. The richly decorated sarcophagus of Men-
kewré was found here by Col. Vyse in a good state of preservation. It
was externally 2 ft. 7 in. high. The lid was gone. Fragments of the inner
wooden cofﬁn and of the royal mummy (now in the British Museum)
Were found in the chamber e. The vessel in which the sarcophagus was
being conveyed to England was unfortunately lost off the coast of Spain.

The original intention of the builder was to construct a pyramid on
a small scale, containing only the sloping corridor lk, leading to a chan1~
her at e, smaller than that now existing. But when a larger pyraniid was
projected, the corridor ab cd was formed, leading ﬁrst to an antechamber
and then to a tomb-chamber at e, enlarged by deepening the earlier
chamber at that point. Under the New Empire the interior of the pyramid
was ruined by the forcible entry of treasure—seekers; but probably during
the Saite period a restoratiOn took place. To this restoration are due the
sloping shaft and the granite chamber in which the sarcophagus of Men-
kewre was concealed, as well as the lower-lying room with the recesses.

The Second and Third Pyramids are most conveniently visited in
the course of the circuit of the Pyramid plateau mentioned on p. 126.
After inspecting the Great Pyramid visitors usually proceed to the
Sphinx, which rises from amidst the sand of the desert about 350 yds.
to the SE. The path thither leads between the so-called ‘mortar
pits7 (P1. m) and three Small Pyramids of no interest. That in the
centre (Pl. 1), according to Herodotus, was the tomb of a daughter of
Kheops, that to the 8., according to an inscription preserved in the
Museum of Gizeh, belonged to Henwetsen, another daughter of the
same king.

The ”Sphinx i, which, next to the Pyramids themselves, is the
most famous monument in this vast burial-ground, is hewn out of
the natural rock, and, with some aid from added blocks of stone, has
been moulded into the shape of a recumbent lion with the head of a
man. It represents the king, probably Amenetht 111. (12th Dyn.),
by whom it may be supposed to have been erected; afterwards it was
taken for the sun—god Har—em—Elchwet (‘Horus on the horizon’),
known to the Greeks as Harmachis. In front of the breast originally
appeared an image of a god, the weatherworn remains of which
may still be made out. The head, wearing the royal head—cloth,
which was originally adorned with the royal serpent, was most
carefully executed. Now, however, it is deplorably mutilated; the
neck has become too thin, the nose and beard have been broken

1- The Egyptian Sphinx, being of the masculine gender, is represented
with the head of a ram or of a man, and rarely with that of a woman.
which is ascribed to it in the Greek myths.

“—— ,

