x oviii

1517.

1771.

1773.

1798,
1st July.

 

HISTORY.

the trade of Egypt was terribly depressed by high taxes
and by the accompanying debasement of the coinage. At
the instigation of the Venetians Kansuweh el-Ghﬁri
equipped a ﬂeet for service against the Portuguese in In-
dia, and with it in 1508 he gained a naval victory over
Lorenzo, son of the viceroy Francisco d’Almeida, near
Shawl in Beluchistan; but the following year his ﬂeet was
compelled to retreat to Arabia. El-Ghuri fell, while ﬁght-
ing against the army of the Osman sultan Selim I. on the
plain of Dabik (to the N. of Aleppo).

roman Bey (p. 48) was dethroned by the Osman Sultan
Selim I. of Constantinople (pp. 33, 106). Cairo was taken
by storm. Egypt thenceforth became a Turkish Pashalic.
Selim compelled Mutawakkil, the last scion of the family
of the ‘Abbaside khalifs, who had resided at Cairo in ob-
scurity since the time of Bibars, to convey to him his
nominal supremacy, and thus claimed a legal title to the
ofﬁce of Khalif, the spiritual and temporal sovereign of
all the professors of El—Islam. i

111. MODERN HISTORY.

Turkish Domination after 1517.

The authority of the Osman sultans soon declined, and with
it that of their governors. The Egyptian pashas were now
obliged, before passing any new measure, to obtain the
consent of the 24 Mameluke chs [or princes) who gover-
ned the different provinces. These beys collected the
taxes, commanded the militia, and merely paid tribute to
the pasha.

‘Ali Bey, originally a slave, raised himself to the dignity
of an independent sultan of Egypt. He conquered Syria,
but died on the point of returning to Egypt, Where his
son-in—law Abu Dabad had seized the throne. After Da-
bad’s death the beys ——

Murdd and Ibrahim shared the supremacy, and rendered
themselves almost independent of Turkey.

The French Occupation.
Napoleon Bonaparte (pp. 19, 33, 165) arrived at Alexau-
dria, hoping to destroy the British trade in the Mediter—

A + The Turkish Khalifs, however, have never been recognised by the
Shi‘ites, as not being descended from ‘Ali. Most of the Sunnites also,
especlally among the learned Arabs. regard them merely as temporal mon-

archs.

Relying on an ancient tradition, they maintain that none but de-

scendants of the {(oreishites, the family to which Mohammed belonged.
can attarn the ofﬁce of Imam, or spiritual superior. Theyr accordingly re;
gard the great Sherif of Mecca as their true Imam.

