of Luxor. THEBES (E. BANK). 24. Route. 241

showing the facade of the temple of Luxor, with the pylons and
ﬂag-staffs, the colossal statues, and the obelisks, while from the
right approaches a procession, headed by the princes and followed
by garlanded animals for sacriﬁce. (The scene is continued on the
W. wall.)

The S. half of the court is farther embellished with standing
Colossi of Ramses 1I., placed between the columns in the ﬁrst row.
These, with the exception of one in black granite, are wrought in
red granite and average 23 ft. in height. The ﬁnest (Pl. a) stands
to the left (E.) and is 171/2 ft. high; the crown, carved from a
separate block, has fallen off; on the pedestal and apron is the
name of Ramses 11. On each side of the doorway leading to the
colonnade is another colossal ﬁgure of the king, scated with the
queen by his side.

On the S.side this court is adjoined by a Colonnade (Pl. B),which
was originally intended as the beginning of an immense hypostyle
hall (comp. p. 238). The colonnade is in fairly good preservation
and contributes essentially to the digniﬁed appearance of the ruins
of Luxor when viewed from the river. The marvellous play of colour
shown by the deep, heavy shadows of this colonnade at sunset is
nowhere excelled. Seven couples of columns, nearly 42 ft. in height,
with calyx-capitals, still support a heavy architrave above a lofty
abacus. The whole was built by Amenophis 111., but Tut-enkh-
Amon (p. 238), Haremheb, Sethos 1., Ramses 11., and Sethos 11.
have also recorded their names upon it. The walls of the colonnade
were embellished by Tut—enkh-Amon with reliefs, representing the
great festival celebrated at Luxor on New Year’s Day. On that day
the sacred boats of the gods were brought by the Nile from Karnak
to Luxor, borne into the temple at Luxor, and returned to Karnak
in the evening. The procession is here depicted in all its details,
though unfortunately a large part of the reliefs has perished with
the ruined upper part of the walls. The series begins at the NE.
corner of the colonnade and ends at the N.W. corner.

The (second) Court of Amenophis III. (Pl. 0), which we enter
next, is 48 yds. long and 55 yds. broad, and had double rows of
columns on three sides. The columns are clustered papyrus
columns with bud-capitals; the E. and W. rows, with the archi-
trave, are in excellent preservation, and are specially eifective as
seen from the river-bank.

Immediately adjoining this court is a Hypostyle Hall (Pl. D),
the roof of which was borne by 3?. clustered papyrus-columns
arranged in 4 rows of 8. The reliefs on the E. wall show Amen-
ophis 111. before the gods of Thebes; at the foot of the wall are
personiﬁcations of the Egyptian nomes, bearing gifts. To the left
of the central axis of the hall stands an Altar, dedicated to the
Emperor Augustus, with a Latin inscription. Adjoining the rear-
wall are two small Chapels (Pl. L and M) and a staircase (Pl. N).

BAEDEKER‘s Egypt. 5th Ed. 16

