178 Route 16. BIAHMU. Fayam.

an interesting desert expedition may be made in one day on camels to the
Wadi Rag/an, a valley on the way to the oasis of Bahriyeh. — 3. Via Rabin
(Minshat Rabi) to Kalamsha. —— 4. Vii Kuhafeh (see below), Hawdra (station
for the Labyrinth, p. 179), and Dimishkineh to El—Lahan (pyramid, see p. 180).
—- 5. From Edwa (on the government-line, p. 176) via Gabala (to Senﬁres, see
p.177) to Tamiyeh, and via Selah and Sersena to Rhoda. —— Other lines are
under construction.

The village of Biahmu 0r Bihamu, which lies on the railway to Se-
nﬁres (p. 177), 41/2 M. to the N. of Medinet el-Fayxim. is usually vis-
ited on donkey-back (11/4 hr.-, there and back 5 pias.). The road, which
leads in the direction of the railway-embankment through fertile ﬁelds
and past murmuring irrigation Channels, aﬂ'ords an insight into the fer-
tility of the district. A short distance to the N. of Biahmu rise two large
stone Buildings, which present the appearance of ruined pyramids and are
called by the natives Kursi Fir‘aun (‘Pharaoh‘s chair”) or es—Sanam (‘the
idol‘). These were the pedestals of two colossal sandstone Statues osz'ng
Amenemhét 11]., remains of which have been found by Lepsius and by Prot‘.
Flinders Petrie, who estimates their original height at 110 ft. The learned
Father Vansleb of Erfurt saw the lower portion of one of these ﬁgures
in 1672. Each was surrounded by a girdle-wall, with a granite door on
the N. side. The N.E. angle of the easternmost wall is still in good
preservation. These walls were once washed by the waters of Lake
Moeris, and there is practically no doubt that in them we must recognize
the two pyramids described by Herodotus (p. 175) as standing in Lake
Moeris, each with a colossal seated human ﬁgure upon it.

FROM MEDINEH T0 SENHfJR, 91/2 M., a ride of about 3 hrs. This ﬁne
route leads through a remarkably fertile and well-cultivated region, via
the villages of Bem' Magnum and Es-Seliyineh. Picturesquely situated on a
cliff to the left appears the village of Fidmz‘n or Fademz‘neh. — §enhi1r
(Sanhour) is a large Village occupying the site of a considerable ancient
town. A resting-place and sometimes night-quarters are to be found in
the large house of the Shékh el-beled or village prefect. — Those who
wish to proceed to the Birket-Karun (about 11/2 hr.) should make a bargain
with the shékh of the ﬁshermen in Senhlir (comp. p. 180).

Near Begig (or Abgm‘g; railway-station, see above), 3 M. to the S.W. of
Medineh, lies a ﬁne obelisk, broken into two parts, which must once have
been at least 46 ft. in height. The natives call it ‘Amﬂd, or the column.
The inscriptions, which are damaged at many places, inform us that the
monument was erected by Usertesen I.. who also founded the obelisk of
Heliopolis (p. 107).

The Pyramid of Hawara and the Labyrinth.

Nearly a whole day is required for a visit to the Pyramid of Hawara.
The light railway may be taken to the station of Hawara, but as even in
that case donkeys must be brought from Medineh, it is more usual to ride
all the way.

The road follows the railway and leads at ﬁrst along the bank of
the Bahr Ydsuf to the village of Kuhéfeh (Kohafa), beyond which
the Ruhr Tamiyeh is crossed by a bridge. Our path traverses well
cultivated land with numerous water-Wheels. We cross the Balm
Beld Md (‘river without water’), also called el—Bats, a deep channel
diverging from the Bahr Yﬁsuf and ending at the Bahr Tamiyeh. ~—
In 11/2 hr’s. ride from Medinet el-Fayﬁm we reach —

anaret el-Malgta', a considerable village, with apretty mosque.
A little farther on we cross a bridge over the Balm Sé‘la, which
intersects the ruins near the Pyramid of Hawara, and is some-
times called by the Arabs Balm el-Melekh, Le. river of salt, or Baltr

