330 Route 29. ASSUAN. Quarries.

On the summit of the hill to the right of the road are some large
mosque-like Cenotaph: of famous saints, such as the Shékh Mahmud, the
Shékh ‘Ali, the Lady (Seyidneh) Zenab, etc., whose memory is celebrated
by festivals on their birthdays, etc.

The Granite Quarries (Arabic Ma'c‘zdin), from which the ancient
Egyptian builders and sculptors drew their supplies (comp. p. 328),
are situated in the hills to the S., and may be reached in 1/4 hr.
either direct from the Bisharin camp or from the town by a route
leading via the Arab cemeteries (p. 329) and then to the E., passing
a grove of tamarisks. Numerous blocks of granite lie where they
were left when the works were given up; 6.9. the huge block (marked
'obelisk‘ on the Plan) in the N. Quarry, measuring 92 ft. in length
and 101/2 ft. in breadth at the broadest part. A moderately lofty
cliff shows manifold traces of the industry of the ancient stone-
cutters. The blocks were detached from the cliffs by boring nu-
merous holes along a prescribed line, driving wedges into these, and
then wetting the wedges. By this process tolerably smooth and
even fractures were obtained. Frequently the blocks were ﬁnished
on three sides before being ﬁnally detached. Statues, sarcophagi,
obelisks, etc., were also roughly worked over by the stone—cutters
in the quarries in order to lessen the weight for transport. The hill
above the N. quarry commands a wide prospect, including the con-
vent of St. Simeon (p. 334) in a desert-valley, to the W., beyond
the Nile.

The S. Quarry, 1/2 hr. farther to the 8., contains still more
rough—hewn sculptures, ready for removal. The quarry opens to
the E., facing the desert. On a rock here may be seen an inscrip-
tion with the name of Amenophis 111., though the name and ﬁgure
of the stone—cutter who carved it have been obliterated. Beside it
two trough—shaped sarcophagi have been begun (in the Ptolemaic
or in the Roman period); and in the vicinity are the unﬁnished
colossus of a king (covered, except the feet, with sand), and alarge
quadrangular block, perhaps intended for the shrine of a god. Far-
ther on, near the railway, and towards the top of the cliff, is a ﬁgure
of Osiris (called Ramses by the natives), about 20 ft. in height.
This point commands a ﬁne view of the desert and in the direction
of Phil'ce.

A massive Embanked Road, by which the huge blocks were
conveyed to the Nile, runs from the quarries to Assuan and is used
to this day. -—- If we follow the railway—line we reach the railway-
station of Shellal (p. 335) in 1/4 hr.

The verdant island of Elephantine, with its luxuriant palm-
trees, attracts all travellers. The Arabs call it merely Gezireh, Le.
‘island’, or Geziret Assuc’in. It is reached by small boat (felﬁkeh)
in a few min. from the landing—place, and the entire visit takes
barely an hour. There are two villages on Elephantine, whose i11—
habitants speak Nubian.

