EDFU. 27. Route. 315

The Greeks called it Great Apollonopolis, after its chief god Horus-
Apollo. It was the capital of the second Home of Upper Egypt, the
Apollonopolites of erco-Roman times. Horus, who according to
the myth here waged one of his great combats with Set (comp.
pp. cxx, 215), was surnamed ‘he of Tebhet’, Tebhet being probably
a district of ancient Edfu; he was represented as a ﬂying hawk, as
a man with a hawk’s head, or as the sun with outspread plumes.

The way to the (20 min.) Temple Of Horus leads almost due W.
from the landing-place, then, turning to the N. (right), skirts the
Canal of Edfu and crosses it by a good new bridge. It then proceeds
to the W. through several streets and ﬁnally turns N. again for a
short distance. —- Another route leads straight on from the landing-
place, bends to the right through ﬁelds, and then traverses the streets
of the town without crossing the canal.

The **Temple of Horus was freed by Mariette under the auspices
of the Viceroy Sa'id from the accumulated rubbish that is now piled
up high all around it; and the ediﬁce is now seen in wonderful,
almost perfect preservation, exceeding that of any other Egyptian
temple or even of any antique building in the world, in spite of the
2000 years that have passed over it. Unfortunately the faces of the
kings and gods in the reliefs all over the temple were scratched out
in the Christian period. The present temple occupies the site of an
earlier sanctuary and was dedicated to the sun-god Horus, Hathor of
Dendera, and the youthful Horus, ‘Uniter of the Two Lands’ (Har-
sem-tewé, Harsomtus). The history of its construction and a de-
scription of the entire structure are detailed in lengthy inscriptions
on the exterior of the girdle—wall (at Pl. 2' and k). The temple proper
(Le. the two hypostyle halls and the smaller apartments beside and
behind these) was begun in 237 B.C. by Ptolemy III. Euergetes I.,
and completed, so far as the masonry was concerned, by his suc-
cessor Philopator in 212 B.0. The decoration of the walls with
reliefs and inscriptions, postponed by the death of Philopator and
the disturbed reign of Epiphanes his successor, was resumed in
176 B.0. under Philometor and completed in 147 B. 0. (under Euer-
getes IL), i.e. 95 years after the laying of the foundation-stone.
Euergetes 11. built the great hypostyle hall (completed 122 B.0.)
and embellished it With reliefs, and under Soter II. and Ptolemy XI.
Alexander I. the colonnaded court, the girdle-wall, and the pylon
were added, though the reliefs on the latter date from Neos Diony-
sos. The ﬁnal touch was given in 57 B.0. The building-material
is sandstone.

The great Pylon, to Which a ﬂight of steps descends, is covered
on all sides With reliefs and inscriptions. On the front of each of
the towers the colossal ﬁgure of the King Neos Dionysos is con-
Spicuous, smiting his foes, Whom he holds by the hair, in presence
of the hawk-headed Horus of Edfu and Hathor of Dendera. In two
rows, above, the king appears praying and offering sacriﬁces before

