372 Route 34. ABU-SIMBEL. Great

Egyptians. Archon, son of Amoibichos, and Pelekos, son of Udamos, wrote
this”. —- Kerkis is probably the modern Grirsheh.

On the smoothed S. wall of the fore-court is a Stele dating from
the 34th year of the reign of Ramses 11., commemorating the mar—
riage of the Pharaoh with the daughter of the King of the Hittites.
At the top the king appears seated between two gods beneath a
canopy, while the prince of the Hittites and his daughter (whom
Ramses had brought captive to Egypt) worship him. — The space be-
tween the southernmost colossus and the face of the cliff has been
converted into a small open Court (Pl. f) by the erection of a doorway.
0n the W. wall 0f the court is a long poetic inscription of Ramses II.

The FAgADE of the temple is crowned by a concave cornice, above
which is a row of ‘22 cynocephali. Within the cornice are the names
of Ramses 11., surrounded by urzeus-serpents, and interrupted by
ﬁgures of Ammon (to the left) and Re-Harmachis (to the right).
Then follows the dedication-inscription 0f the king to Ammon-Ré
and Ré—Harmachis. In a niche above the ENTRANCE DOOR (Pl. g)
the przenomen of the king (Weser—ma-ré) is represented by large
ﬁgures in relief, amongst which that of the hawk-headed sun-god
is conspicuous. To the right and left the king presents an image of
Maat to this god, i.e. to his own deiﬁed name. On the lintel of the
door Ramses is shown performing the ceremonies appropriate to the
foundation of a temple before Ammon and Mut, 011 the left, and
before Re-Harmachis and the lion-headed Wert-hekaw, on the right.
Within the portal a smaller doorway was built by Ramses II.

We now enter the rock-temple, the interior of which measures
about 180 ft. from the threshold to the back of the innermost cham—
her. The ﬁrst chamber, the Great Hypmtyle Hall (Pl. B), corres-
ponding to the open court with covered colonnades in temples built
in the open air, is 54 ft. broad and 58 ft. deep. The ceiling is sup—
ported by eight square pillars, against Which stand Osiris-ﬁgures of
the king (30 ft. high), holding the scourge and the crook. The ﬁgures
in the N. row wear the double crown, those in the S. row the crown
of Upper Egypt. The artistic effect of these admirably executed
statues is very ﬁne; the best is the fourth ﬁgure in the N. row, with its
intelligent expression and well—preserved characteristic nose. The
ceiling of the central aisle is adorned with ﬂying vultures, those of
the side—aisles with stars and the names of the king. The reliefs on
the wall, still vividly coloured, are of great historical value. On
the N. half of the ENTRANCE WALL (Pl. h) the king is shown grasping
a band of enemies by the hair and smiting them with his club, in
presence of the hawk-headed Re-Harmachis. guardian-deity of
N. Egypt, who hands the curved sword to Ramses. Above the king
hovers a vulture and behind him is his guardian-spirit or Ka. Beneath
are the king’s daughters, with sistra. The S. half of this wall (Pl. i)
is occupied by a corresponding scene, in presence of Ammon-Re,
guardian-deity of S. Egypt. Beneath are the king’s sons.

