176 Route 16'. FAY'CM. Medina el—Fayﬁm.

through the same canal (Le. the Bahr Yﬁsnf), both it and the canal retain
water enough for purposes of irrigation. At both ends of the canal there
are lock-gates by means of which the engineers can regulate the inﬂux
and efﬂux of the water.‘ The method by which the distribution of the
excess water was accomplished is unknown. Near the modern el-Lahﬁn
there is a lock to this day. — The statement of Herodotus that Lake Mceris
Was an artiﬁcial construction thus rests upon an error and is moreover
in direct contradiction to Strabo‘s account, which expressly mentions
that in its size and colour the lake resembled the sea and that its banks
looked like the sea-shore. For the pyramid and statues mentioned by
Herodotus as standing in the lake, see p. 179.

The Fayiim forms a separate province. The Inhabitants are fellahin,
or tillers of the soil, and Beduins. To the latter race belong the poor
ﬁshermen who inhabit the banks of the Birket Kardn.

From Cairo to el—Wasta (57 M.), see R. 17. Travellers coming
from Cairo change carriages here and have a considerable time to wait. ,

The branch—line to the Fayum runs towards the W., across
cultivated land, to the village of Abu Riidi, beyond which it tra-
verses a desert tract, and crosses the low and bleak Libyan chain
of hills, reaching its highest point at a level of 190 ft. above the
sea. At (‘15 M.) Siala (Séla) the Pyramid of el—Lahﬁn (p. 180) is
visible on the horizon to the left. We cross ﬁrst the Bahr Séla,
which ﬂows towards the Baht Yﬁsuf from the N.. and then the
Bahr Tamiyeh (p. 178). — Near the station of (181/2 M.) Edwa
(Adweh; 69 ft.) isa cemetery with the dilapidated tombs of several
shékhs. Numerous palm-branches are placed by the tombstones as
tokens of affection. We pass the station of el-Maslt‘tb and traverse
rich arable land.

23 M. Medinet el-Faynm. —— Hotels. HOTEL KAROUN (landlord,
Athanase Tast'o), pens. 50 pins. ; HOTEL DU FAYOUM or Locanda Manulz', plain
but very fair, pens. 40 pias., both near the station.

Medtnet el—Fayam, usually known as El-Med‘neh, is the chief
town of the province of Fayﬁm and contains about 31,000 inhab.
(including many Greeks). The Bahr l’z‘tsuf (p. 175) ﬂows through
the town, its running water forming a feature quite unusual in
Egyptian-towns. The very long covered bazaar contains nothing of
special interest. The dilapidated mosque of (can Bey, built on a
bridge over the Balir Yﬁsuf, contains numerous antique columns,
brought from the ancient Arsinoe, some of which have shafts of
polished marble with Arabic inscriptions, and Corinthian and other
capitals. Below the mosque, on the bank of the Bahr Yusuf, are
some remains of ancient masonry. At the W. end of the town the
Bahr Yﬁsuf radiates into numerous branches. The dilapidated
mosque of Soﬁ situated here forms a picturesque foreground.

To the N. of the town are the extensive rubbish-mounds, known
to the inhabitants as Ktmti‘n Paris, or ‘riders’ hills’, covering an
area of about 1/2 acre and rising to the height of 65 ft. These mark

the site of Crocodilopolis-Arsinoé.

The ancient Egyptian name of this town was Shetet. It was the centre
of the worship of the crocodile-headed water-god Sobk (the Greek Suchos).
under whose protection the entire lake-land stood. The crocodile was

