xxxviii THE MODERN EGYPTIANS. Fellﬁliin.

or simply a blanket of sheep’s wool (hirdm), and lastly a close-
ﬁtting felt skull-cap (libdeh). He is generally barefooted, but occa—
sionally wears pointed red (urban), or broad yellow shoes (balgha).
The shékhs and wealthier peasants wear wide, black woollen cloaks
and the thick red ‘Tunisian’ fez (tarbv‘tsh) with a blue silk tassel,
round which they coil a white or red turban ('immeh). In their hands
they usually carry a long and thick stick (m‘zbﬁt), made of ash im-
ported from Caramania. All watchmen carry similar sticks as a badge
of ofﬁce.

The sole wealth of Egypt is derived from its agriculture, and to
the fellahin alone is committed the important task of tilling the soil.
They are, indeed, neither ﬁtted nor inclined for other work, a circum—
stance which proves how completely the stationary character of the
ancient Egyptians has predominated over the restless Arabian blood,
which has been largely infused into the native population ever since
the valley of the Nile was conquered by the armies of El-Islam. The
ancient Egyptian racial type has been preserved in extraordinary
purity in many fella]; families, especially in Upper Egypt. This is
particularly evident in the case of the children and women, whose
features are not concealed and distorted by veils (which the ancient
Egyptians despised). Even among the Berbers (p. xlv), between
the ﬁrst and second cataracts, faces occur that might almost lead us
to think that some of the pictures of the period of the old Pharaohs
had come to life, and stood before us in ﬂesh and blood. The modern
Egyptians, moreover, resemble the ancient in the lot to which they
are condemned. In ancient times the fellah, pressed into the service
of the priests and the princes, was compelled to yield up to them
the fruits of his toil, and his position is nearly the same at the present
day, save that the names of his masters are changed, and he has
obtained some relief owing to the almost entire abolition of com-
pulsory work.

In early life the Egyptian peasant is remarkably docile, active,
and intelligent, but at a later period this freshness and buoyancy are
crushed out of him by care and poverty and his never-ceasing task
of ﬁlling the pitcher of the Dana'ides. He ploughs and reaps, toils
and amasses, but he cannot with certainty regard his crops as his
own, and the hardly earned piastre is too frequently wrested from
him. His character, therefore , becomes like that of a gifted child,
who has been harshly used and brought up to domestic slavery, but
at length perceives that he has been treated with injustice, and
Whose amiability and intelligence are then superseded by sullenness
and obstinacy. Thus down to a few years ago, as in the time of
Ammianus Marcellinus, the fellall would often suffer the most cruel
blows in dogged silence rather than pay the taxes demanded 0f him.

In his own ﬁelds the fellah is an industrious labourer, and his
work is more continuous than that of the peasant of more northern
countries. He enjoys no period of repose during the winter, and the

