OMDURMAN. 37. Route. 389

The ramparts round the BAGARA TOWN are strong and massive,
but have no banquette within for the defence. The Mahdi’s Tomb
(Pl. i),was destroyed by the British and its contents scattered. The
base (b ft. thick), vaulting, and dome of this ediﬁce are said to have
been executed by Neufeld, a German kept in captivity for many years
by the Khalifa. Beside the tomb are an open space in Which the der-
v15h army was reviewed, and a Mosque (Pl. 2), now used as a mess—
room by the Egyptian ofﬁcers. Close by are Abdullahi’s House (Pl. 3)
and the two—storied House Of the Shékh «ad—Din (Pl. 4), his son. The
latter is the only dervish house with glass windows. Beside it is
the grave of an English war-correspondent, who fell here. Permis-
sion must be obtained from the Civil Secretary for a visit to the
treasure—house Bét el—Amdna or Bét el—Mc‘zl (Pl. 5), which contains
memorials of Gordon and trophies of weapons. Visits may be paid
to Slatin Pasha’s House. now the telegraph-ofﬁce (Pl. 9), and to
Emir Yakub’s House (Pl. 6), which was occupied by the governor
until the summer of 1901. The Prison (Pl. 12), where many Eu—
ropeans languished, is situated 500 yds. farther on, at the S. angle
of the town-wall. It is sometimes known as the ‘Saier Prison’ from
the name of the jailor under the Mahdi and Khalifa.

A wide new street, passing the clean quarter of the Greek shop—
keepers, leads hence to the N.W. to the (1/4 M.) large *MARKBT
PLACE, which presents a busy and variegated scene of African life.
All the articles of consumption of Central Africa are to be seen here
in profusion: curious spices of a hundred diﬁerent varieties, drugs,
and perfumes; soda, saltpetre, salt; betel, bead-nuts, seeds, and
wood of every kind; glass beads, ﬁligree work, toilet—butter, an-
garibs (bedsteads). the dried ﬂesh of wild animals, ostrichs, etc.
Skilful smiths, and saddlers dealing with hipp0potamus hide, may
be seen at work. Sudanese weapons and curiosities may be purchased
of P. Loiso. Goods intended for importation into Central Africa
may be seen in the covered sheds on the S. side of the market—place.
,The place of execution under the Khalifa was also in the market—
place, and to the E. of it is the pit (‘Tomb of the Martyrs’) into which
were thrown the heads and limbs of the condemned. -— A visit to
the *Mérada, on the bank of the Nile, should not be omitted, here
are the markets for ivory, india—rubber, feathers, and corn. The
slave—market is, of course, a thing of the past. The Stilt el—flaﬁm,
where women were sold, is now devoted to milk, ornaments, oint—
ments, and basket—work.

The population will on the whole impress the stranger as un-
friendly and importunate. The warlike oppression of the last de-
cade, the fanatical enthusiasm for pilgrimages, the desire for
plunder, and the devastation of whole provinces have assembled here
a confused medley of the most diverse races and stocks: Bantus
and grotesque dwarf negroes from the W. Sudan, Semitic and Ha-
mitic tribes from the desert, such as Nubas, Bagara, Kababish,

