266 Route ~24. THEBES(W.BANK]. . 1. Tomb

the right is an unﬁnished inscription of the king. On the door-lintel
is the disk, with the king on both sides worshipping it. Behind
the latter are Isis and Nephthys.

Connrmm I. At the beginning of the Left Wall is a chapel (Pl. a), in
which the king stands before Harmachis and Osiris. Two doors farther

 

l7

 

 

.3».

 

on admit to small chambers withont decor-
alion; over the doors is a text from the
‘Praising of Re’. At Pl. 1) is a text from the
125th chapter of the ‘Book of the Dead‘
(1). 264), beneath which a priest, clad like
the god Hor-En-metf, pours the symbols for
‘life‘, ‘constancy‘, and ‘wealth‘ upon the
king, who is clad like Osiris. On the Right
Wall, at Pl. 0, is a chapel with the king be-
fore Ammon and Mer-segret, goddess of the
dead. Two doors here also admit to side
chambers. Over the doors and at Pl. (1 are
representations of daemons of the under-
world, serpents. and ghosts with the heads
of jackals and bulls. The text is the be-
ginning of the ‘Sun‘s Journey in the Under-
world“. —- CORRIDOR II. On the Left Wall,
at Pl. 9, is a. serpent rearing itself, to the
right of which and in the recess are ﬁgures
of -gods (from the ‘Praising of RE”). Below
the recess is the king followed by Hathor. At
Pl. (1 is a text from the ‘Book of the Dead”,
farther on the king, over whom hovers a
hawk, appears before the hawk-headed
Khons-Net’erhotep. On the Right Wall. at
P1. f, is a serpent rearing itself; and at
P1. h, daemons and spirits (frequently en-
closed in oval rings). 0n the Ceiling are
stars. —- Connmon 111. On the Left Wall is
the course of the sun during the second
hour of night (p. 263) and the beginning of
the course during the third hour (p. 263).
On the Right Wall, at P1. 19, the king presents
an image of Maat to Ptah, beside whom
stands the goddess Maat. At Pl. 0 lies the
mummy of the king7 across a mountain7
with the arms raised above the head; above
are a scarabreus and the sun-disk. At P1. l, m,
and n three rows ofdzemons are shown, one
above the other. In the top row are Ssuns,
in each of which is a black man standing
upon his head; in the central row are ser-
pents pierced by arrows, praying women
standing upOn mounds, and a scarabaeus in
a boat, ending at stem and stern in serpents‘
heads; in the lowest row are daemons upon
serpents, also four men bent backwards,
spitting out scarabari, etc. —— Room IV. At
P1. 7' and 8 appear priests, with panther
skins and side-locks, sacriﬁcing before a
standard. The other representations are de-

stroyed. —— Room V leads downwards. On
each side are two pillars (not one as in the
plan). -— Roon VI also slopes downwards.

A door, ahove which is the sun-disk with
the ram-headed sunrgod, worshipped by dog-
headed apes. leads hence into Roon VII. The

