294 Route 24. THEBES (WBANK). 8.1)érel—Medineh.

the mutilation of many of the inscriptions and also its present name
(Dér = monastery).

Adjoining the temple 0n the left is an archway of bricks.

We ﬁrst enter a large Vestibule (Pl. A), the roof of which (now
mostly fallen in) was supported by two palm-columns. Light was
admitted through openings in the end-walls. Separated from it by
two columns with rich ﬂoral capitals and two pillars adorned with
heads of Hathor is the Pronaos (Pl. B). Screen—walls rose between
the pillars and columns. and between the columns,which bear ﬁgures
of the deiﬁed sage Amenhotep and the god Imhotep, is a doorway,
open at the top. Only the left screen is now left. The walls of this
hall are embellished with incised reliefs, representing the king sacri-
ﬁcing to various deities. Towards the top of the left wall is a taste-
ful window, which originally lighted a staircase. From the pronaos
three doors open into as many Chapels. Above the hollow cornice over
the doorway to the Central Chapel (Pl. 0) are seven heads of Hathor.
On the interior walls appears Philopator, sometimes accompanied by
his sister Arsinoé; and on the jambs of the entrance-door are four
gods with bulls7 heads. On the left wall of the Left Chapel (Pl. D)
is a remarkable representation of the Judgment of the Dead (Pl. a).
To the right is enthroned Osiris, god of the underworld, and in front
of him are the ‘fetish’ of Eme-wet (p. cxxvi), the four genii of the
dead upon a lotus-ﬂower, the ‘Devourer of the Underworld’ in the
form of a hippopotamus, and Harpocrates, resting upon a crooked
staff. The ibis-headed Thout inscribes the verdict. To the left Anubis
and Horus weigh the heart of the deceased; two goddesses of truth,
with feathers on their head, conduct the deceased into the judgment
hall. Above is the deceased praying to the 4‘2 judges of the dead.
On the rear-wall (Pl. b) of this chapel Philopator offers incense
before Osiris and Isis. On the right wall (P1. c) appears, to the left,
the sacred boat of Osiris-Sokaris, with standards, etc., beside it.
To the right the king offers incense to Anubis, who holds a disk,
and to the ithyphallic Min. 0n the lintel of the door is a four—
headed ram (the god of the four winds), above which is a ﬂying
vulture, worshipped by four goddesses. —— On the door-jambs, the
king with three hawk-headed and three jackal-headed genii. — The
reliefs in the Right (8.) Chapel (Pl. E) are of little interest.

The valley of Dér el-Medineh is rich in Tombs of various periods,
particularly of the 20th Dyn., with the colours of the paintings
marvellously preserved. They are not shown without the permission

of the Inspector General (p. 297).

The following are interesting: No. 20. Tomb of Sennutem, an ofﬁcial
of the Necropolis (p. 260), with a vaulted chamber and well—preserved
mural scenes of religious import. —— No. 12. Tomb ofPeskhetu, another
Necropolis ofﬁcial. The vaulted chamber contained a. sarcophagus made
of b10cks of limestone. The walls are covered with religious texts and
scenes. To the right of the door is the deceased, lying on the ground
below a palm~tree and praying; to the left, his father (with White hair)
and other relatives.

