DOCTRINES OF EL—ISLAM. lxiii

as he declared, nothing new. His religion was of the most remote
antiquity, all men being supposed by him to be born Muslims,
though surrounding circumstances might subsequently cause thEm
to fall away from the true religion. So far as Mohammed was ac—
quaillted with Judaism and Christianity, he disapproved of the rigour
of their ethics, which were apt to degenerate into a body of mere
empty forms, while he also rejected their dogmatic teaching as
utterly false. Above all he repudiated whatever seemed to him to
savour of polytheism, including the doctrine of the Trinity, as ‘as—
signing partners’ to the one and only God. Every human being he
considered bound to accept the new revelation of El—Islam, and
every Muslim is bound to promulgate this faith. Practically, how—
ever, this stringency was afterwards relaxed, as the Muslims found
themselves obliged to enter into paciﬁc treaties with nations beyond
the conﬁnes of Arabia. A distinction was also drawn between peoples
who were already in possession of a revelation, such as Jews, Chris-
tians, and Sabians, and idolaters, the last of whom were to be rigor-
ously persecuted.

The Muslim creed is embodied in the words: ‘There is no God
but God (Allah'i), and Mohammed is the prophet of God’ (ld iléha
ill’ Allah, wa Mubammedar-rasalu’lléh). This formula, however,
contains the most important doctrine only; for the Muslim is bound
to believe in three cardinal points: (1) God and the angels, (2)
written revelation and the prophets, and (3) the resurrection, judg-
ment, eternal life, and predestination.

(1). G01) AND THE ANGELS. According to comparatively modern
inscriptions it would appear that the emphatic assertion of the unity
of God is by no means peculiar to Mohammedanism. As God is a
Spirit, embracing all perfection within Himself (comp. p. 46),
ninety-nine of his different attributes were afterwards gathered
from the Koran, each of which is represented by a bead of the Mus-
lim rosary. Great importance is also attached to the fact that the
creation of the world was effected by a simple effort of the divine
will. (God said ‘Let there be’, and there was.)

The story of the creation in the Koran is taken from the Bible,
with variations from Rabbinical, Persian, and other sources. God
ﬁrst created his throne; beneath the throne there was water; the
earth was then formed. In order to keep the earth steady, God
caused it to be supported by an angel, placed on a huge rock, which
in its turn rests on the back and horns of the bull of the world.

Simultaneous with the creation of the ﬁrmament was that of the
Ginn (dmmons), beings occupying a middle rank between men and
angels, some of them believing, others unbelieving. When the ginn
became arrogant, an angel was ordered to banish them, and he ac-

1- Allah is also the name of God used by the Jews and Christians
who speak Arabic.

