m DOCTRINES or EL-ISLAM.

to supersede the ancient law, and to introduce a modern European
system (p. xx).

With regard to theological, legal, and still more to ritualistic
questions, El-Islam has not always been free from dissension. There
are in the ﬁrst place four Orthodox sects, the Hanefites, the Shdfe-
‘ites, the Malekites, and the Hambalites, named after their founders.
In addition to these must be mentioned the schools of Free Think-
ers, who sprang up at an early period, partly owing to the inﬂuence
of Greek philosophy. The orthodox party, however, triumphed, not
only over these heretics, but also in its struggle against the volup-
tuousness and luxury of the most glorious period of the khalifs.

Ascetism and fanaticism were also largely developed among
professors of El—Islam, and another phase of religious thought was
pure MYsrrcrsm, which arose chieﬂyin Persia. The mystics (sﬁﬁ) in-
terpret many texts of the Koran allegorically, and their system there-
fore frequently degenerated into Pantheism. It was by mystics who
still remained within the pale of El-Islam (such as the famous Ibn

el-‘Arabi, born in 1164) that the Orders of Dervishes were founded.

Dervishes (darwish, plur. dardwz‘sh). That earthly life is worthless, that
it is a delusion, and at best a period of probation, are sentiments of
frequent recurrence in the Koran. This pessimist view of life has been
conﬁrmed by Mohammed‘s conception of the Supreme Being, on whose
awe-inspiring attributes he has chieﬂy dwelt, thus ﬁlling his adherents
with a profound dread of their Creator. The result of this doctrine was
to induce devout persons to retire altogether from the wicked world, the
scene of vanity and disappointment, and to devote themselves to the prac-
tice of ascetic exercises, with a view to ensure their happiness in aruture
state. The fundamental aim of this asceticism was to strive after a
knowledge of God by cultivating a kind ofhalf»c0nscious and ecstatic ex-
altation of mind. A mystic love of God was deemed the great passport
which enabled the worshipper to fall into this ecstatic trance, and to lose
himself so completely in contemplation as to destroy his own individuality
(fund) and blend it with that of the Deity (ittihrid). As in Europe the
monastic system and the mendicant orders sprang from the example of
penitents and hermits “who had renounced the world, so in the Mohammedan
world asceticism was rapidly developed into an organised system ofmen-
dicancy. At an early period many noble thinkers (such as the Persians
Sa'di and Haﬁz) and talented poets enrolled themselves in the ranks of the
ascetics, but the dervishes of the present day have entirely lost the spirit
of their prototypes, and have retained nothing but the mere physical ca-
pacity for throwing themselves into a mechanical state of ecstasy and rend-
ering themselves proof against external sensations. .

EThe following are the principal orders of dervishes (tartlcat ed-daroth‘sh)
in gypt: —

(1) The Rtfd'iyeh (sing. mfd't'), an order founded by Seiyid Ahmed
Rifa‘a el-Kebir, possess a monastery near the mosque of Sultan Hasan
(see p. 49), and are recognisable by their black ﬂags and black or dark
blue turbans. The best-known sects of this order are the (ﬂuid rIlwo‘m,
or ‘Ilwdm‘yeh Dervishes, and the Sa'dz‘yeh Dervishes. The former are
noted for their extraordinary performances at festivals, such as thrusting
iron nails into their eyes and arms, breaking large stones against their
chests, as they lie on their backs on the ground, and swallowing burning
charcoal and fragments of glass. The Sa'diyeh, who usually carry
green ﬂags, are snake-charmers (p. xxiv), and on the Friday on Which
the birthday of the prophet is celebrated used to allow their shekh to
ride over them on horseback (the doseh; p. lxxvi).

