Ptolemaz’c Temple. ASSUAN. 29. Route. 329

divided channel, appears small; but it still preserves its venerable
aspect, for everywhere, even on the rocks by the stream, are in—
scriptions and numerous memorials of the grand old times.

Among the ruins of the ancient city to the E. of the railway-
station lies a small and not very interesting PTOLEMAIC TEMPLE,
now buried in rubbish with the exception of the facade. The key
is kept by an oflicial of the Administration des Antiquités. Built
by Eucrgetes I. and Philopator, but never quite completed, the
temple was dedicated to lsis of Syene.

1n the centre of the facade is the MAIN PORTAL, crowned with a con-
cave cornlce; it is now closed, the present entrance being by a gap in tho
wall to the left. Left Jamb: above, Eucrgetes presenting an image of Mean
to Arnmon, below, Euergetes offering milk to a goddess. Right Jumb:
above, Euergetes before Min-Ammon, below, Euergetcs sacriﬁcing to
Hathor. Lintel: to the right, Euergetes sacriﬁcing to Osiris, Isis, and
Harpocrates, and Euergetes before the crocodile-headed Sobk of Syene and
Hathor; to the left1 Euergetes prcsenting an image of Maat to the cataract-
gods Khnum, Satis, and Anukis, and Euergetes and his wife Berenice
before Isls. —- The INTERIOR. consists of a hall with two pillars and three
chapels. The two side-chapels are filled up; the reliefs in the central
chapel show Euergetes (once accompanied by Berenice) before the various
deities of Syene.

Near the temple is a rock-inscription of the reign of Amenophis IV.:
to the right is Men, ”superintendent of works’, before the figure of Amen-
ophis 111., to the left is Men‘s son Bek, chief architect at Tell el-‘Ainarna
(p. 203), before the ﬁgure (defaced) of Amenophis IV., upon which the
sun‘s rays descend.

To the S. of the railway-station are the bases of several statues
of Roman emperors, with Latin votive inscriptions, perhaps on the
site of the old Praetarium. The new street on which these lie goes
on to the Cataract Hotel, passing the English Church, which was
built in 1899-1900 by Mr. Somers Clarke in the style of a Coptic
chapel, with a dome.

A ride (donkey there and back 5 pias.) may be taken to the CAMP
on THE BrsuARiN, situated within an ancient Arab cemetery, 3/4 M.
to the E. of the town. These Arabs with their families live in
wretched tents covered with mats. Beduins of the ‘Ababdeh tribe,
differing both in type and dress from the Bisharin, also have tents
here. Both tribes speak a curious language, allied to Egyptian and
other E. African dialects. They support themselves by cattle—rearing
and by trading, especially with senna-leaves, which they collect in
the desert and sell at good prices. The exhibitions and dances (‘fan—
tasia’) which they perform are simply invented to entertain the
tourist and have nothing national or characteristic about them.
The handsome Bisharin children, with thick curly hair, hawk chains
and other small articles about the town. — A ﬁne *View is com—
manded by the Tomb of Shélch Hurfm, above the camp, to the right.

We may return via the ancient ARAB CEMETERIES, which are
situated in the desert to the S. of the town. Each grave is marked
by a rectangle of unhewn stones and a slab bearing an 1nscr1ption.
The tombs of the richer dead are small domed erections.

