3 48 Route 30. BERENIKE. Eastern Desert.

kneeling ﬁgure of Eni, viceroy of EthiOpia. Higher up on the rock are
ﬁgures of gazelles, Greek grafﬁti, and an inscription of a. Prince Mermes,
dating from the reign of Amenophis III.

3rd Day. More masons‘ marks discovered on small rocks. Ancient
station of Abu Greta, with 2 cisterns (not to be confounded with the place
of the same name near Berenike).

4th Day. Descent through the dei Be‘zalt, with its acacias. Rude
designs and grafﬁti on the rocks. From this point a diverging route leads
direct to the emerald mines of the Gebel Zeibara (see below) We cross
the dei Hiaeh‘g. (ln the rocks to the right are rude representations of
girafTes, camels, and ibexes. Remains of an ancient station named Samzmt,
with a cistern and chambers, occur in the Wadi of the same name We
next proceed through the broad green Wadi Moe'llieh towards the Gebél
.llz‘zgef, near which is a spring of excellent water.

5th Day. Through huge granite rocks to groups of rude stone huts,
probably built by miners View of Gebel Zdbara. On a rock to the right
is a view of an Egyptian bark, with sails and oars. Farther on is a ruined
station, with the remains of a stone hut.

6th Day. Ancient station of ed-Dueig. Adjacent is another smaller
building. About 3 hrs. farther on we cross the watershed between the
Nile and the Red Sea. Two more cisterns, within a semicircular enclosure.
We pass the granite hill of Abu Hvirl.

7th Day. Descent into the dei Gemdl. Station in the form of a
right—angled triangle Two cisterns. Lateral valleY diverging towards the
emerald mines. The mountains (Gebel Abyad) now rise to the right, in-
stead of. as previously. to the left.

8th Day. “’e proceed through the dei Abyad and the dei Higelig,
leaving the Gebel Hamd/a to the right; then along the dez‘ Ramtt. On
a height in the dei. Husan are some shékhs’ graves. in a circu‘ar form.

9th Day. Seven other circular tombs: the well of el-Hm-atra lies to the
right; old structure of a large cistern in the dez‘ el-Hast‘r. Through the
Wadi Amrugam to the de1' thmi, which descends from the mountain
of that name, crosses our route, and proceeds in windings to the Red
Sea The last station is Abu Greta, comprising several buildings, the
largest of which contains the remains of rooms. Another rectangular
building seems to have been a reservoir for water.

10th Day. Arrival at Sikkct Bender, near the ruins of the old temple
of Berenike.

The town of Berenike (Berenice), situated in the same latitude as
Assuﬁn, was founded in B.C. 275 by Ptolemy Philadelphus, who revived
the commerce of the Red Sea by the establishment of several new ports.
The town, which was named by Ptolemy after his mother, was the ter-
minus of the main desert-routes from Egypt. and for 400 or 500 years was
the cntrepﬁt of a marine commerce carried on mainly with Arabia and
India. The ruins, still extant, surround the Temple, which faces the
E.N.E. In front is a fore-court 281/2 ft. in width and 12 ft. in depth,
which was adjoined by the temple proper (inner length 31 ft.), com-
prising two rows of apartments The representation on the left outside-
wall shows an emperor (probably Hadrian) appearing before a goddess,
who scems to be, from the legend, the tutelary deity of the green (Le.
emerald) mine.

The Emerald Mines, '/2° to the N. of Berenike, were worked by the
Arabs, according to Makrizi, down to the year 760 of the Hegira (1370 A.D.),
after which they were abandoned. Mohammed rAli made an unavailing
attempt to re—open them. They lie partly in the dez‘ Sake‘t and partly on
the Gebel Zdbm-a, 14 M. to the NE. They are best visited from Contra
Apollinopolis, but may, like Berenike, he approached by following the
coast of the Arabian Gulf from Koser. The ﬁrst route diverges from the
road to Berenike in the Wadi Gemdl (see above). To the S. of thc Gebel
Zébara lies the village of Sake't, with the huts of miners and a small
rock-hewn temple, with a few Greek inscriptions.

