Medinet Habu. THEBES (w. BANK). ~24. Route. 301

and the castanet-players in the lower row, should be noticed. In
the next scene (2) the king is shown sacriﬁcing and offerixrg incense
before the ithyphallic image of Min. The following scene (3),
continued on the N.E. wall, exhibits the sacred procession. The
image of Min is borne on a litter by priests, while fan-bearers walk
by the side and priests carrying the sacred caskets follow. In front
marches the king, who in turn is preceded by a white bull (the
sacred animal of Min), priests, the queen, and a long procession of
priests in two rows, carrying standards, temple utensils, and images
of the king and his ancestors. To the right is the king awaiting the
procession, with two emblems in front of him. Priests allow four
birds to escape (comp. p. 286). Farther to the right (4) the Pharaoh
cuts with his sickle the sheaf of corn handed to him by a priest (as
in the Ramesseum, p. 286). Behind him stands the reciting priest,
who intones a hymn to Min, while another priest presents the sheat'
to the god. The queen (above) is also present at this ceremony.
The white bull again appears in front of the king, and beneath is a
series of images of the royal ancestors. Finally (5) the king is
shown offering incense to the god Min standing under a canopy.

The lower series of representations on the N. and N.E. walls are less
interesting. To the left (under N0. 1, above) are the sacred boats of Khons,
Mut, and Ammon, to which the king sacriﬁces, to the right (under N0. 2,
above) priests bear the boats out of the temple, while the king, before
whom is a fourth boat, approaches to meet them.

S. and S.E. Colonnades. In the upper rows in these a Festival
of Ptah-Sokaris is displayed. It begins to the left of the door (Pl. 6)
with a train of priests of various forms, bearing sacred boats, im-
ages of the gods, standards, and temple utensils. Next appear the
king and his dignitaries, succeeded (Pl. 7) by a colossal symbol of
the god Nefertem, son of Ptah, borne by eighteen priests. After the
king (8) come sixteen exalted personages, including the king’s sons,
holding a cord which reaches to the hands of the king. Two priests
offer incense before the king. Then follow sixteen priests (9)
bearing the boat of Sokaris, followed by the king. The king (10)
sacriﬁces before the sacred boat; and ﬁnally the king before the
ram-headed Khnum and two other gods, and before thehawk-headed
Sokaris-Osiris, to whom he offers a platter with bread.

More interesting than these festal representations are the Warlilce
Beliefs, in the lower division on the S. and S.E. walls. The Ist Scene
(Pl. 6) on the S.E. wall depicts the king attacking the Libyans with
his charioteers and shooting with his bow. The infantry ﬁght in
wild confusion. The Egyptians are assisted by the Shardana mer-
.cenaries (in the lower row; p. 299). The 2nd Scene shows the return
of the king from the battle. He drives in his chariot, with three
rows of fettered Libyans in front of him, and two fan-bearers behind
him. 3rd Scene. The king leads the Libyan captives before Ammon
and Mut. 0n the S. wall is a relief (7) showing the king turning
round in his chariot to receive the Libyan captives (light-red in

