ARABIC LANGUAGE. Clxix

Nile differs considerably in the pronunciation of the consonants,
vocalisation, and accent from the ordinary Arabic dialects of Syria
and elsewhere. Thus the letter a is pronounced hard in Egypt and
soft in Syria (see p. clxx). The variations, however, are not
so great as to prevent the Syrians and Egyptians being mutually
intelligible. There are, moreover, variations in the dialects spoken
in Egypt; the Arabic of the Beduins is different from that spoken in
the towns. The following remarks apply eSpecially to the language
as spoken in Cairo.

The pronunciation of the vowels is apparently liable to variation:
thus besides the more correct Mimbar the form Mamtar is also used;
besides Maiddn, both Mé‘dc‘m and Midc‘m are heard. A sharply deﬁned
and exact pronunciation of the consonants is characteristic of Arabic
and is absolutely essential to any satisfactory use of the language.
The learner should endeavour at once to master the pronunciation

of the more difﬁcult Arabic consonants, such as a, 3, J3, &,

and U", so as, for example, to be able to make a distinct difference
between bét (house) and bEd (eggs). Many of the sounds have no
representatives in English.

The Arabic alphabet was developed from that of the Nabatzeaus,
who in turn adopted their written characters from the Palmyrenes.
In spite of its external attractions, it is one of the most imperfect
in existence. I11 written or printed Arabic the short vowels are
usually omitted and have to be supplied by the reader, a feat which
demands considerable skill and experience. In the Koran, however,
the vowels are all indicated by appropriate signs.

Owing to the increasing intercourse between the native Egyptians
and Europe, the former have of late adopted many words from other
languages, chieﬂy from Italian, French, and English. Many Arabic
words have, moreover, long since been replaced by Turkish equi-
valents. The Egyptian dialect also contains some Coptic or ancient
Egyptian words. Very few Europeans learn to pronounce Arabic
accurately, even after a residence of many years in the country.

On p. clxx we give the Arabic Alphabet, with the sounds
corresponding to the different letters so far as it is possible to re-
present or describe them to the English reader.

