290 Route 24. THEBES (w. BANK). 7. The Tombs of

We then climb the somewhat steep hill, pass the richly decorated
t0mb (No. 119) of Amenwose‘r, who lived under Thutmosis III.,
and, come to No. 35, the Tomb of Rekhmeré, a vizier under Thut-
mosis III. and Amenophis III. The
Arabs name it el-Bdb Khamsewe-
teldtin. It consists of a vestibule and
a large chamber, from the centre
of which an unusually long passage
of remarkable and gradually in-
creasing height runs into the rock.

The WALL DECORATIONS are much
faded and injured; among the best are
x the following. Large Room (Pl. A). On
5 the left entrance-wall (Pl. a), Rekhmere
9 receiving petitioners; people with tri-
‘ bute. 0n the rear-wall (Pl. b), Rekh-
mere receives tribute and gifts from
foreign peoples, who are arranged in
5 rows: 1. People of Punt (E. Africa);
2. Princes of Keft (perhaps Crete) and
the Islands of the Sea, bringing costly
vases recalling the Mycenian vases in
shape -, 3. Nubians, With panthers, apes,
giraﬁ‘es, gold, skins, etc.; 4. Syrians,
with chariots, pearls, an elephant and

 

 

 

 

”/4 .' ’

 

o s w .0 a bear, and costly vases-7 5. People of
n s m an “L up of: m the South, men, women, and children.
‘ —— Corridor (Pl. B). On the left wall

(from left to right): 1. Rekhmere su-
perintends the delivery of tribute (corn, wine, cloth, etc.) at the royal
storehouses. 2. Rekhmere inspects the workmen placed under him (car-
penters, leather-workers, goldsmiths, potters); below are the building
of a pylon, and the polishing of a statue. 3. Funeral rites. On the right
wall (from left to right): 1. Rekhmere at table. 2 (above). Offerings
before the statues of the deceased; below is the statue of Rekhmere in a
boat, towed by men on the bank of the pond; 3. Banquet, musicians,
and singers; 4. Ships.

Mounting to the left of the tomb of Rekhmere we reach (to the
left of No. 48) the *Tomb of Sen-nofer, a prince of the southern
capital (Le. Thebes) and overseer of the gardens of Ammon, under

Amenophis II. (No. 48 is the tomb of another Sen—

3 nofer, who was a garden-ofﬁcial underAmeuophis 1.).
1- D B D h The tomb, which has only of late been explored, is
D D distinguished by the beauty and freshness of its
9 ‘ paintings, all of which are of religious import. A steep
c d ﬂight of steps descends to a vestibule and to a room
a A b with four pillars.

VESTIBULE (Pl. A). The ceiling is adorned with grapes
and vine-tendrils. 0n the left wall (a) sits Sen-not'er, to
whom his daughter and ten priests bring offerings. On
the right wall (b) servants bring the ceremenls, while

his daughter stands behind; to the right is the deceased entering and
quitting the tomb. On the rear-wall, to the right and left of the door
(0 and d), the deceased and his sister’lover worshipping Osiris, who is
represented above the door. — Room B. The eeiJing is adorned with

