360 Route 32. GERF—HushN. 'q'om Kalr‘zbsheh

Rock Temple of Gerf-Husén. The Egyptian name of this temple
was Per-Ptah, the ‘House of Ptah’. It was founded in the reign of
Ramses II. by Setaw, at that time governor of Ethiopia, and it was
dedicated to Ptah of Memphis and his fellow—gods. In front of

the rock-temple proper lay a

 

. 53%- ‘\ _ quadrangular COL'R’I‘ (Pl. A),
‘ D which was surrounded on
D three sides by covered colon-

 

 

 

nades. The E. colonnade had
lotus-columns, while the
[[3 C Q ; others were supported by
pillars, against which stood
colossal ﬁgures of Ramses II.
Two ofthe columns and ﬁve of
the pillars are still standing.
The W. side of the court is
bounded by the rock-facade
of the temple, hewn to imi-
tate a pylon and decorated in
a corresponding style. On the
left side of the portal is a re-
lief of Ramses offering fresh
vegetables to Ptah. Passing
through this portal, we enter
a large HALL (Pl. B), 45 ft.
square, hewn out of the rock.
The ceiling is supported by
six pillars, 28 ft. high, against
which are statues of the king
like those in the court. On
each side of the hall are
four recesses, each with the
king, in the guise of a god
under various titles, standing
between two deities.

In the Recesses on the Left (8.) Side (from left to right). 1. The
king between Ammon-Ré and Nut; 2. Between Horus, lord of Beki, and
Horus, lord ofBeheni; 3. Between Ptah-Tatenen and the cow-headed Hathor.
4. Between Ptah and Sekhnret.

In the Recesses on the Right UV.) Side (from left to right): 1. The
king between Khnum and Anukis; 2. between Nefertem and Satet: 3. be-
tween Horus, lord of Meni, and Isis; 4. between Harmachis and Ews-os.

The reliefs on the walls of the hall, showing the king before various
deities, are unimportant.

Tire following ANTEROOM (Pl. C), about 36 ft. wide though only
1'7 ft. deep, is entered by a small door, on the left side of which is
the king before Ptah. The ceiling is supported by two square pillars.
The walls and pillars are embellished with representations of the
king in presence of various gods (including the deiﬁed Ramses).

 

 

 

