zts Hide c‘t'reets. ‘ UAlltU. 4. Route. ’1!

small bottles into which it is usually put contain only one drop. Then
follow the weavers and tailors.

The rhari'a en-Narbiyeh is continued to the S. by the Shdri‘a el—Falz-
{tdmm (Pl. E. 3, L1), in which is the bazaar for wares from Tunis and
Algiers. We ﬁrst observe drug—stalls, and then magazines of light-coloured
Woollen and other stutls, Arabian rugs, etc.

We now turn sharp to the right, then sharp to the left, and pursuing
the same direction, parallel with the El-‘Alglgadin street (see below), and
passing a number of shoemakers‘ stalls (bawdbisht'), we come to a broader
covered passage. which we follow to the right for a few paces, and then
take the ﬁrst lane to the left. This lane is continued under the name of
Sharia el—Menaggidtn, and is inhabited chietly by tailors, cloth—merchants,
and dealers in undressed wool. A short abrupt curve of this lane, to the
left, then brings us to the Shdri‘a el-‘Alclcddin.

The AsnnAriYnn forms the ﬁrst part of a long line of streets
leading to the S. and farther on taking successively the names of
GHﬁniYEn, SHARI‘A EL-‘AKKAoiN, and SUKKAaiYEH. In the Ghﬁriyeh
we observe the medréseh and mausoleum of Sultan el-Ghuri (P1. E,
3, 4). The medréseh, to the W., was ﬁnished in 1503 and has a
minaret, inappropriately crowned with ﬁve modern dwarf cupolas.
The mausoleum, to the E., .dating from 1504, has a modern and
tasteless wooden cupola and a restored ceiling (in the oratory). The
sultan, who fell in Syria (p. xcvii), is not buried here. Adjacent is
a well—preserved sebil, with knttab (p. 37), projecting into the street.

To the E. of the Shari‘a el-‘Alglgadin lies the quarter 0' ﬂash Kadam:
In its main street stands the ruinous 'Honse of Gamal ed-Din ez-Zahabi
(Pl. E, 4), president of the merchants, an interesting building of 1637
(adm. by ticket as in the mosques, 2 pias.). Through a dilapidated passage
(dirkeh) we reach the court of the Salamlik, with two well—pr~se.-ved
facades. To the right is the door of the harem; to the left is a ﬂight of
steps leading to the Takhla Bosh (p. clxv). The inscription on the moulding
give-s the da’e of the building. The small door in the middle of the wall
(bdb es—cz‘r) is the private door of the master of the house, leading to the
harem. Just to the left is a small chamber with Mnshrabiyehs (p. clxvi),
whence the ladies of the harem could overlook the court and the Takhta-
b6sh. In front is the new, recently restored. The rest of the house is
in ruins.

The Sukkariyeh (P1. E, 4) forms the bazaar for sugar, dried
fruits (nulcl), ﬁsh, candles, and similar wares. On the left is the
modern marble Sebil of Mohammad ‘Alz’, and on the right the —

*Gami‘a el-Muaiyad (P1. D, E, 4), also knowu as dei'a
el—Abmar (‘the red’), a mosque dating from 1416. It was erected
by Sultan Shélch el-Malzmadi Muaiyad (p. xcvii), of the dynasty of
the Circassian Mamelukes, who had been defeated in a rebellion
against Sultan Farag (p. 65), and vowed that he would build a

mosque on this site if he were released from prison.

The lately restored sanctuary, the two mausoleums, and the minarets
on the gates of the Bab ez-anéleh (see p. 48), the upper parts of which
were added in 1892. are the only remains of the original structure. The
three massive walls, intended to enclose three new liwans, were erected
during a restoration in the second half of the 19th century.

The bronze gate at the entrance, the handsomest in Cairo,
originally belonged to the mosque of Sultan Hasan (p. 49), but
was bought for the new mosque for 500 dinars. We ﬁrst enter a

