of the Kings. THEBES (W. BANK).

24. Route. 265

duo” 0f WhiCh Open as the sun-god approaches; above them coils a. huge
snake. Farther to the right gods peep forth from a lake of ﬁre. In the
Lower Panel, to the left, Atum leans upon his staff; by spells he has
rendered the snake Apophis, the toe of the sun-god, innocuous, and it

now lies before him, watched by 9 gods, ‘WhO
ward off the snake’. To the right are Atum
and other gods. —— On the Right Walls is Chap-
ter 111 of the ‘Book of the Portals” (beginning
at the entrance). Beyond the gate guarded by
the serpent Zethi we see the journey thi-Ough
the third region of the underworld. In the
Middle the boat is being drawu by limen to-
wards a long chapel, in which lie the mum-
mies of 9 gods. Then follow 12 goddesses, re-
presenting the hours of the night; these, di<
vided into two groups of six, separated hy a
huge serpent, ascend a mountain, beneath
which is a pond, indicated by zigzag lines. In
the Upper Panel are a row of gods, ‘who hasten
to their Ka’, 12jackal-headed daemons, stand-
ing upon a pond, ‘the lake of life‘, and10 Uraeus
snakes. upon the ‘lake of the Uraci‘. In the
Lower Panel we see Horus, leaning on his statt‘,
and 11 gods advancing towards Osiris, ‘lord of
the western ones” (tie. of the dead). Osiris
(whose ﬁgure has been destroyed) stands above
a serpent in a recess, in front of which is :n
Uraeus-snake. Twelve other gods approach the
recess from the other side. Farther on are

men before vaulted oveus (‘2), watched hy a
god. The beginning of Chapter IV of the
‘Book of the Portals’ appears on the right rear
Wall. where we see the outwork and the gate
guarded by the serpent Teke-hor. On the roof
are two representations of the Egyptian sky.
— In the next CORRIDOR is the beginning of the
‘Sun‘s Journey through the Underworld‘. In the
Room 10 THE LEFT the mummy of the king is
depicted 23 times; in the Room To me RIGHT,
17 times. The Recassas, on each side at the
end of the corridor, have ﬁgures of gods in
their shrines below, and representations of
sacriﬁcial oﬂ'erings above. On the Lintel of the
door to the last room is the boat of the sun
upon a double-sphiux, adored by the king 011
each side. -—— LAST Room. On each of the side-
walls is a bed, with lions‘ heads and lions‘
feet, with a chair and two chests above, and
below, four vessels for entrails, with the heads
of the four genii of the dead on the lids.

No. 3, to the left of the path, is half—
ﬂlled with rubbish; it was originally in-
tended for Ramses 111.

N0. 4. Tomb of Ramses XII., Nefer—
er-ke-ré, the last of the Ramessides. This
tomb is unﬁnished.

’7
(—3k :W]
L t
Lt

E5

Q”

\2.

”TL-

V

1—;

[I

'1 .

 

No. 5, farther on, to the left, is the entrance to a corridor.

*No. 6. Tomb of Ramses IX., approached by a: ﬂight of steps
(with inclined plane, and steps at the sides). On the staircase to

