Temple OfSethos 1. THEBES(W.BANK). 24. Route. 261

is visible at a considerable distance. This temple was founded in
honour of Ammon by Sethos 1., and at the same time was devoted
to .the worship of the king’s father, Ramses I. Sethos left it un-
iinrshed and Ramses II. ‘renewed’ it, Le. added the reliefs and
inscriptions that were wanting. The beautiful execution of the
inscriptions and reliefs vividly recall the contemporary sculp-
tures in the great temple at Abydos (p. 218). The original build-
ing (see the annexed plan) was 518 ft. in length, but of this only
the actual sanctuary with its halls and chambers, 153 ft. in depth,
remains, while there are only scanty relics of the former courts
and pylons.

The COLONNADE on the front of the temple originally displayed
10 clustered columns with papyrus-bud capitals, but only 8 are
now left. On the architrave is the dedicatory inscription ofRamses II.
In its inner wall are three doors (Pl. a, b, c), which lead into the
three divisions of the temple. On this wall, to the left of P]. b, are
representations of the provinces of Upper Egypt (a man and woman
alternately), bearing ﬂower-decked dishes with cakes and wine; to
the right, similar reliefs of the provinces of Lower Egypt. The
former have lilies on their heads, the latter papyri —— the ﬂoral
emblems of the two regions. Above the former the king offers
incense to the bark of Ammon carried by priests, above the latter
the king appears before various deities.

Passing through the middle door (P1. b), we enter a HYPOSTYLE
HALL with 6 papyrus-bud columns, ﬂanked on each side by three
chambers (P1. d-i). On the slabs of the roofof the middle aisle appear
the winged sun-disc, ﬂying vultures, and the names of Sethos 1.,
between two vertical rows of hicroglyphics. The low reliefs on the
walls show Sethos I. and Ramses 11. before various deities. Those
at Pl. :1 and at P1. B represent respectively Mut and Hathor of
Dendera nourishing Sethos. — SIDE CHAMBERS. Chamber 9 is ruined
and inaccessible; the ceilings in Chambers 01, f, and h are in good
condition. The ﬁnely cxecuted reliefs in Chambers e, f, h, andi
depict Sethos I. offering incense or performing sacred ceremonies
in presence of various deities. In Chamber 2': on the left wall, Thout
before the sacred bark of the king; on the right wall, the king seated
at the banquet; on the rear-wall, the king as the god Osiris, seated
in a chapel, surrounded by other gods. In Chamber d are sunk
reliefs of Ramses 11., showing (right) the king entering the temple
before Ammon and Amonet, and (left) the king oﬁering incense to
Ammon, Khons, and Mut. —— The SANCTUARY has four unadorned
square pillars. On the right and left walls Sethos appears offering
incense before the boat of Ammon.

We now turn to the RIGHT DIVISION of the temple, which is in a
very ruinous condition. It consisted of the long HALL or Ramsns II.,
with 10 columns (no longer standing), and of several rooms behind
and beside it, and originally separated from it. The sunk reliefs

~\

