208 Route 18. TELL EL-‘AMARNA. From Cairo

princessrs who adore the names of the sun, while the queen 1resen s her
own portrait, also adoring the names of the sun; behind them are three
princesses with sistra; the sun darts his rays upon an altar loaded with
food and vessels — TOMB 11, of Ramosé. To the left, in the entrance,
are the royal pair accompanied by a princess, receiving the symbol of
‘Life‘ from the sun‘s rays, which are shaped like hands. In the recess
are seated ﬁgures of the deceased and his wife. —- Terms 12 AND 13, though
unﬁnished, are of interest as illustrating the method in which these rock-
tonibs were hollowed out. — Tom; 14 belonged to a ‘military commander
and fan-bearer on the king‘s right hand’, whose name has everywhere
been carefully obliterated; while contrary to the usual rule in these tombs,
the names of the king and queen have been left uninjured. The tomb
is unﬁnished. On the right portion of the entrance-wall are preliminary
sketches in black of various objects (ships, a garden, a house with col-
umns). —— Tons 15 ot‘Suti had just been begun. —— TOMB 16, though a fine
specimen, has no representations or inscriptions.

Tons 23, belonging to Eni, a royal house—steward and scribe, differs
from the other tombs in its arrangement. A ﬂight of limestone steps as
cends to the entrance, which is crowned with a concave cornice, and in
front of which a colonnade was intended to be erected. On each side of
the lintel are the king and queen and three princesses praying to the sun;
on the left side in the entrance is the deceased praying, with the text
of his prayer in front of him, on the right side he appears with a staff
and nosegay (painted on stucco). The walls of the MAIN CHAMBER are
coated with stucco, but with the exception of the concave cornice at the
top are unpainted. In the RECESS is a colossal statue of the deceased. On
the right wall are the deceased and his wife seated before a worshipper,
on the left wall, the deceased seated at table and receiving ﬂowers from
a priest. These scenes also are painted on stucco but are much faded.

Tom; ‘25, the farthest to the S. in this group, belonged to the
priest and fan-bearer at the king’s right hand Eyé, a favourite of
Amenophis IV. and his successor on the throne (p. lxxxii). This
tomb, like so many of the others, was left unﬁnished, because the
king died during its construction, and the court was soon after-
wards removed back to Thebes, Where Eye caused a new tomb to be
made for himself (p. 277). On the Door Posts, to the right and
left, are Eye and his wife, kneeling below inscriptions. In the
ENTRANCE, to the left, are the king and queen, followed by the
princesses and the court, praying to the sun, which directs its arm-
shaped rays towards the altar; below are Eyé and Ti, his wife, in
prayer. To the right are Eye, in his ofﬁcial costume, and his wife
praying, their prayers being inscribed beside them. — The MAIN
CHAMBER was designed to be supported by 24 papyrus-columns
with closed bud-capitals, but only 15 have been hewn out, and of
these only 4 are ﬁnished. The remainder (to the S.) have only
been begun in the living rock at the top. On three of the columns
appear the deceased and his wife, adoring the names of the sun and
ot‘ the king and queen. In the centre of the rear-wall is an un-
finished door-shaped stele; in the N.E. angle is a ﬂight of steps
leading to the not yet begun sarcophagus-chamber; and in the N.W.
angle is an unﬁnished door—shaped stele. The representation on the
left portion of the Entrance Wall, the only one ﬁnished, deserves
notice. To the left are the king and queen at a window of the
palace throwing down decorations to EyE and his wife (upper parts

