46 Route 4. CAIRO. 2. The Muski and

copying books, or by ﬁlling some religious ofﬁce to which a salary is
attached, and they occasionally receive donations from the wealthier
students. When teaching, the shékh sits cross-legged on astraw-mat and
reads from a book placed on a desk (rahleh) before him, explaining each
sentence as he proceeds; or he directs one of the more advanced students
to read aloud, adding his own explanations from time totime. The students
sit in a circle around the teacher, listening, or attentively taking notes. As
soon as a student knows by heart and can explain the whole of the book
which is heing studied by the class, the shékh makes an entry in his
copy of the work, called the Igdzeh, whereby authority to lecture on the
book is conferred on the student himself. The president of the univer-
sity, who is usually the most distinguished of the shekhs, is called Shékh
el-dei‘a or Shélch el-Isldm, and receives a salary of about 20 purses, to.
10,000 piastres.

Most of the students, particularly those whose native tongue is not
Arabic, begin their university education by learning the Arabic grammar
(‘ilm en-nalm). The “next branch of study is religious science ('t'lm el-
keldm), the introduction to which consists of a series of preparatory lec-
tures on the attributes of God and the prophet ('ilm et-taulu‘d).

After having completed his course of religious instruction, the student
proceeds to study law (‘z‘lm el-ﬁlch). ‘Jurisprudence‘, says Ibn Khaldﬁn,
one of the greatest of Arabian thinkers, ‘is a knowledge of the precepts
of God in relation to the actions of men, some of which it is our duty to
perform, whi‘le others are forbidden, or recommended, or permitted-, and
this knowledge is derived from the book of God, Le. the Igoran, from
the Sunna (tie. tradition), and from the inferences drawn by the law-
giver (Mohammed) from sufﬁcient materials afforded by the Iforz‘tn‘.

Besides these leading hranches of instruction, logic, rhetoric, the art
of poetry, the proper mode of reciting the Koran, and the correct pro-
nunciation of the letters are also taught.

The above list of the subjects taught at the most important of Moham-
medan schools will serve to convey an idea of the intellectual condition
of Orientals at the present day. The most conspicuous defect of their
culture consists in the entire absence of independent thought, in conse-
quence of which they are the mere recipients of the knowledge of the
past. Their minds are thus exclusively occupied with the lowest grade
of intellectual work, their principal task consisting in the systematic
arrangement or encyclopaedic compilation of the knowledge handed down
to them.

On quitting the Mosque of Azhar we proceed in a straight di-
rection, leaving the Mosque of Mohammed Bey Abu Dahab on the
left, to the SHARI'A ns-SANADrKivEH (P1. 23), also called 801:
es-Suddn or bazaar for wares from the Sudan, consisting of gum,
(him-palm nuts, ill-tanned tiger—skins, etc. Farther on, in a straight
direction, we reach the street of Ashrafiyeh, opposite the Mosque

0f Ashraf (p. 42).

From the Ashrafiyeh, opposite the exit from the Sudan Bavaar, the
833311 nL-HAMZEWT Es-Sncuin (Pl. E. 3), in which is the bazaar of the
same name, leads to the W. The $131} el-ljlamzawi is the bauaar of the
Christian merchants (iyrians and Copts), who vie with their Mohammedan
fellow-tradesmen in the exorbitance of their demands, and whose chief
wares are European calico, porcelain, and drugs (which last are 5 :1d in
nearly all the bazaars) This narrow winding street is prolonged by the
$3311er EL-Hnnzxwi EL-Ksnin, to the left on which (approached hy a side-
lane), is the Orthodox-Greek Church of St. Nicholas. —— Just at the beginning
of the Shﬁri'a el-Hamzawi es-Seghir we observe on the right the covered
ShdrM ewNarbiyeh (Pl. E, 3). with the Silk el-'A§§érin, 0r spice-market,
which is easily distinguished by its aromatic odours. The perfumes of
Arabia, genuine and adulterated, wax-candles, and drugs are the chief
commodities here. Attar of roses is sold hy weight at high prices. The

