HEALTH RESORTS. xxvii

cellent; the cooking is good, and invalid diets are arranged for.
But no building has yet been constructed in Egypt that is up to the
demands of modern science as a sanatorium in regard to site, con-
struction, ventilation, and other requirements.

Menu House Hotel (p. ‘25), 8 M. to the W. of Cairo, stands near
the N. side of the Great Pyramid of Gizeh, on the verge of the
Libyan Desert. The mean maximum temperature is 69° in Dec.,
66° in Jan., 72° in Feb., 74° in March, and 80° in April. The
mean minimum for the four months Dec. to April is 50°. The
relative humidity (Le. the amount of moisture, in relation to the
temperature at the time, that the air holds out of a possible 100 per
cent) from Dec. to March is 58 per cent by day (8 a. m. to 6 p. in.)
and 80 per cent at night (8 p. m. to 6 a. m.). Dew falls in winter
on about two nights out of three. At both Mena House and Helwan
the prevailing winds and the amount of 11in are probably much the
same as in Cairo. The purity of the air at both places is marked. -—
The medical and sanitary arrangements are excellent; and there is a
resident nurse under the orders of the physician who resides there.

Helwdn (p. 154), 15 M. to the S. of Cairo and 11/2 M. from the
cultivated land, is 115 ft. above the river. The mean maximum
temperature is 70° in Dec., 67° in Jan., 73" in Feb., and 76° in
March. The mean minimum for these four months is 50°. The
daily range of temperature is 21°. Dew rarely falls. The relative
humidity from Dec. to March is 47 per cent by day, 66 per cent at
night. — Helwan has the advantage of being in the desert in a pure
atmosphere. It also has warm natural springs of three kinds: viz.
sulphurated, carbonated iron, and saline water, each of which is
richer in natural constituents than the corresponding springs at Aix-
les-Bains, Harrogate, Buxton, etc. The cases suitable for the baths
here are such as would derive beneﬁt from hydrotherapeutic treat-
ment as carried on at Harrogate, Bath, Aix, etc. A large new Bath
Establishment has been erected. Two English physicians and a
trained English nurse are resident at Helw'an.

Luwor (p. 233) is situated about 450 M. to the S. of Cairo, in
the Theban plain and on the right bank of the river. The prevailing
winds are N.W. and N., but the force of the wind is probably less
than at any of the other stations in Egypt. The mean maximum
temperature is 760 in Dec., 74° in Jan., 78° in Feb., and 850 in
March. The mean minimum for these four months is 50°. The
relative humidity is 41 per cent by day, 64 per cent at night. Dew
falls about every third night in Jan.; it rarely falls in other months.
In the W. Desert near Luxor dew very rarely falls, and the mean of
the relative humidity for the four months is 43 per cent only, day
and night. —— In addition to the advantage of its warm and dry cli-
mate, with less wind than other stations, Luxor has an almost inex-
haustible interest in its numerous antiquities, temples, and tombs.

