174 Route 15. BUI‘JA.

wards the W. tower the imposing 'Ataka Mts. (p. 173), which
present a most picturesque appearance on the return route. To the
left rise the yellowish ranges of the Gebel e'r—Rc‘tha, belonging to
the long chain of the Gebel et- Tih, and facing the 8.13. We are
now traversing Asiatic soil, while at the same time the eye ranges
over part of the African continent.

Another route, practicable in good weather but entirely depen—
dent upon the wind for its duration, is the sea-route to the so-
called ‘Caravau Landing Place’ (marked ‘Molo’ on our map), about
2 M. to the N.W. of the Springs, which are thence reached on foot.
This part of the Red Sea was long regarded as the ‘reedy sea7 across
which the Israelites ﬂed from Pharaoh; now, however, this is gen-
erally located farther to the N., in the vicinity of the Bitter Lakes,
which at that epoch may have been connected with the Red Sea.

The Springs of Moses, Arabic ‘Ain (plural ‘Ayt‘wﬂ Mdsa, form
an oasis about ﬁve furlongs in circumference, the property of
M. Costa (p. 172) and several Greek residents in Suez. The vege-
tation here is very luxuriant. Date—palms and vegetables are cul-
tivated by the Arabs, who receive one-half of the yield of dates as
their reward. Their gardens are enclosed by mud—walls and pal-
ings. The Springs vary in temperature from 70° to 82° Fahr.; some
are only slightly brackish, while others are exceedingly salt. The
largest of them, in the garden farthest to the 8., is said to have
been.the bitter spring which Moses sweetened by casting a certain
tree into it. Beside it is an open colonnade in which the traveller
may rest and partake of coffee offered by the Arabs.

On a mound marked by a solitary palm, about 10 min. to the
S.E. of the gardens (View), is another trickling spring. —— Concho—
logists (p. 172) will ﬁnd a number of interesting shells on the

beach at low tide, but the best places are farther to the S.'

An interesting excursion may be made in good weather to the Sub-
marine Coral Gardens. We skirt the slope of the coral rock ‘Sha‘ab’, which
stretches along the coast, becoming better developed the farther S. we go.
Those who are interested in marine biology should land on the rock, which
is nearly dry at low water.

16. The Fayﬁm.

A short Vrsrr TO THE FAYfJM, a fertile and attractive district with
many historical associations, may be accomplished in 3 days. Travellers
with a slight knowledge of the language and the customs may diSpense
with a dragoman. The nights are spent at Medineh (p. 176), but the tra-
veller should be provided with a moderate supply of food. An introduction
to the Mudir will be of great service (p. 180). IstDay. Railway from
Cairo to Medinet el-Fayam; insp.ect that town and its environs. 2nd Day.
Excursion to the Birket Karim and Deme‘h. 3rd Day. Excursion to Edward
(Labyrinth) or Begig: railway back to Cairo. —— A complete Tour: THROUGH
THE FAYfJM takes about 6 days, and requires a dragoman, Who-charges
30-40 fr. a day for each person, according to the requirements of his
employers, and for that sum is bound to provide them with a tent, pro-
visions (wine excepted), and donkeys, or other means of conveyance, and
to pay railway-fares and all other expenses (comp. p. xxii).

