xvi STEAMERS.

(3). Conveyances.

Steamers. Egypt may be reached from England either :bY
steamer direct or by Overland route to one of the principal Mediter—
ranean ports and thence by steamer. Particulars ofthe various routes
are given in R. 1. Whether the traveller returns westwards on leav-
ing Egypt, or intends to proceed to Syria or elsewhere, it is import-
ant that he should be familiar with the principal steamboat services.
The vessels of the principal lines are nearly on a par With regard to
comfort and speed, the British and German steamers being perhaps
slightly superior, and the Italian steamers slightly inferior to the
others. In autumn and Winter vessels bound for Egypt, and in spring

those returning westwards are apt to be crowded.

The time-tables of the Peninsular ck Oriental Steam Navigation Co. may
be obtained in London at 122 Leadenhall St., E.C., or at Northumberland
Avenue, S.W.; and those of the Orient ck Paciﬁc 00. (‘07'ient-Paciﬁc Line’)
at 5 Fenchurch Avenue, E.C., or at 16 Cockspur St., S.W. The North
German Lloyd Co. has agencies at 2 King William St., E.C., and 32 Cock-
Spur St., S.W., and the Navigazione Generale Jtaliana at 8 Leadenhall St.,
E.C. Those who purpose including Syria, Greece, and Constantinople in
their Oriental tour should also, before leaving home, write to the ‘Ad-
ministration des Services des Messageries Maritimes, 16‘ Rue Cannebiere,
Marseilles“ for a ‘Lirret des Lignes de la Mediterranée et de la Mer Noire’,
and t0 the ‘0esterreichische Lloyd, Trieste’ for ‘Information for Passengers
by the Austrian Lloyd’s Steam Navigation L’ompany’ (published in English).
With the aid of these time-tables, the traveller will have little difﬁculty
in making out his programme. See also ‘Baedeker’s Palestine and Syrin’
(sold at the bookshops of Alexandria and Cairo).

The F001), which is included in the ﬁrst-class fare and usually in
the second also, is. always abundant and of good quality. Wine is not
included in the fare except on board the French, Austrian, and Italian
steamers. Many travellers prefer the cookery on board the French and
Austrian steamers as being lighter and better suited to the climate than
that of the British vessels. Passengers who are prevented hy sickness
from partaking of the regular repasts are supplied with lemonade and
other refreshments gratis.

The STEWAnD‘s FEE, which the passenger pays at the end of the
voyage, is generally from 1/2 fr. t0 1 fr. per day; but more is expected
if unusual trouble has been given.

The Burns provided for the use of passengers in the British and
some of the other vessels may be used without extra charge, but the
attendant expects a fee at the end of the voyage.

TICKETS should never he taken at foreign ports through the medium
of commissionnaires or other persons Who offer their services, but the
traveller should, if possible, purchase them at the ofﬁce in person. The
tickets hear the name of the passenger and the name and hour of depar-
ture of the vessel. Return or circular tickets (to Syria and Constantinople)
and family tickets for three or more persons are generally issued at a
reduced rate, but no reduction is made on the charge for food. A child
of 2—10 years pays half-fare, hut must share the berth of its attendant;
for two children a whole berth is allowed.

LUGGAGE of 150-2201hs. is allowed to ﬁrst-class , and of 85-135 lbs. to
second-class passengers.

EMBARKATION. Passengers should be on board an hour before the
advertised time of starting. At Marseilles, Trieste, and Brindisi the
vessels start from the quays, so that passengers can walk on hoard; but
at Venice and Naples passengers are conveyed to the steamers in small
boats, for which the charge at all the Italian ports is 1 franc or lira for
each person, including luggage. Good order is kept at these ports by

