oxxxiii

VIII. Historical Notice of Egyptian Art.

By Professor G. Steindorﬂ’.

1. Architecture.

In Egypt, as elsewhere, the Pier and the Column are the most
important of all architectural members. Their absence indicates a
very elementary stage in the art of building, when artistic devel-
opment has yet to begin. Their presence breaks the outline of the
different masses of the ediﬁce and affords strength and support.

The simplest form of the weight-bearing member is the square
Pier, and this is common even in the tombs of the Ancient Empire.

The lateral surfaces of the piers are frequently
occupied by reliefs or inscriptions and their
fronts by other ornamental designs. Thus tall
papyrus-plants and lilies occur on piers of the
time of Thutmosis III. at Karnak (p. 255), a
sistrum (a rattle used by women) with a head
ofHathor at Abu-Simbel (p. 375), and col—
ossal ﬁgures of Osiris (Fig. I) in the Rames—
seum (p. 285) and at Medinet Habu (p. 300).
The four-sided pier was converted into an
octagonal pillar by bevelling off the corners,
part of the pier, however, being left square
at the top so as to blend with the roof; at the
foot was a round, cushion—like base. The
next step was to convert, by a similar process,
the octagonal pillar into one with sixteen
sides, and in some cases the ﬂat surfaces were
grooved or ﬂuted, a sharp edge being left be—
tween each pair of sides. Polygonal columns
of this character, which have received the
name of Prom—Doric (Fig. 11), occur in tombs
of the Middle Empire (at Benihasan and
Assuﬁn) and in temples of the time of Thut-
mosis III. (Karnak, p. 255 ; Dér el-bahri,
p. 278). The name was suggested by certain
points of resemblance to the Doric columns of
the Greeks, the chief of which are the marked
ﬂuting and the tapering; but the Proto-Doric

 

 

 

 

I. Osiris pillar.

differs from the Greek Doric in being destitute of the ‘echinus’, a
member resembling an overhanging wreath of leaves, forming the
capital of the true Doric column. The chief difference. howeVer, is
that the shaft of the Egyptian column rests upon a round, ﬂat base,
while the Doric column springs immediately from the ground. An-

