306 Route 24. THEBES (w. BANK). m. Colossi

The Northern Colossus is the famous vocal statue of Memnon.
To the left of the king stands his mother Metemwa, to the right his
wife Teye; a third ﬁgure, between the legs, is destroyed. On each
side of the seat two Nile-gods were represented in sunk relief,
winding the representative plants of Egypt (papyrus and lily) round
the hieroglyph for ‘to unite”, a symbol of the union of Upper and
Lower Egypt.

Attention began to be directed to the Musical Phenomenon con-
nected with the colossus, about the beginning of the Roman em-
pire, after it had been broken. When it became known that the N.
colossus emitted a musical note at sunrise, a new myth was in-
vented to explain the fact. Memnon who had fallen at Troy ap-
peared as a stone image at Thebes and greeted his mother Eos
with a sweet and plaintive note when she appeared at dawn. The
goddess heard the sound and the morning—dews are the tears she
shed upon her beloved child. Strabo, who is the ﬁrst author to
mention the phenomenon, expresses doubt as to its genuineness;
but Pausanias and Juvenal (p. 328) accept it as a fact. By later
observers the sound is compared to that of a stroke upon metal, or
even of a trumpet—blast and of human voices singing. The sound
was heard only at or soon after sunrise, though by no means in-
variably then, in which case the god was supposed to be angry.
The phenomenon ceased altogether after the time of Septimius
Severus, who caused the restoration of the upper portions, perhaps
with a view to propitiate the angry god. The restoration was not
very skilfully managed, with ﬁve courses of sandstone blocks.
Letronne has proved that the resonance of the stone is on no account
to be explained as a mere priestly trick, and in the Opinion of
eminent physicists it is perfectly possible that a hard resonant
stone, heated by the warm sunlight suddenly following upon the
cold nights in Egypt, might emit a sound, caused by the splitting
off of minute particles from the surface.- A similar phenomenon

has been observed elsewhere.

The numerous Greek and Latin Inscriptions, in prose and verse, in-
scribed upon the legs of the ﬁgure by travellers under the Roman empire,
are peculiarly interesting. These are more numerous on the left than on
the right leg, and none are beyond the reach of a man standing at the
foot of the statue. The earliest were carved in the reign of Nero, the
latest in those of Septimius Severus and Caracalla, and the most numer-
ous (27) in that of Hadrian. Only one Egyptian (who is responsible for
a short demotic inscription) is found among these scribblers. The in-
scriptions were for the most part the work of men of some eminence, in-
cluding 8 g0vernors of Egypt, 3 epistrateges of the Thebaid, 2 procurators,
etc. Many, though not all, are dated. Nearly all of them aﬁ‘ord proof that
only the N. colossus emitted the famous sound. The oldest inscription
dates from the 11th year of Nero‘s reign. — Many of the great ofﬁcials who
visited the marvels of Thebes were accompanied by their wives. The
colossus was frequently dumb, in which case the visitor usually waited
until a more favourable occasion. Many were so struck with the pheno-
menon that they were not content till they had heard it three or four times.
Hadrian, who journeyed through Egypt in 130 A.D., spent several days
here along with his wife Sabina and a large retinue. In his reign a perfect

