234 Route 24. THEBES. Distribution of Time.

(both speak English, French, and Italian), at the Grand Hotel; Girgz‘ Ghdas
(speaks English and French); Hasanén, shékh of the donkey-boys (esp.
for Luxor and Karnak); Mursi Mollammed; Ahmed Solimdn (Engl.); Bulos
Morgan (Ital., Eng1., and Fr.); Molmmmed Khalil (Engl. and a little Ger—
man); [1091‘ ﬂamed Molzmmned, Yﬂszzf flotsam, Malzmad el-‘Abﬂdi‘, Ahmed Ab-
dallah (these last for Luxor). ‘

The Downers on the E. side of Thebes are good and have good saddles.
To Karnak 1 fr. or 13., and as much more when the traveller is called for or
keeps the ass for the day. On the W. side the donkeys, which are much
more heavily worked, are not so good, but they are fairly well saddled.
Charge 2fr. per day. The hotels on the E. bank provide donkeys; on
the W. bank they must be Ordered b'eforehand.

Antiquities. The traveller in Thebes is frequently tempted to purchase
antiquities. Half the population of Luxor is engaged in trafﬁc with an-
tiquities, and the practice of fabricating scarabaei and other articles
frequently found in tombs is by no means unknown to the other half.
Many of the articles offered for sale are so skilfully imitated that even
experts are sometimes in doubt as to their genuineness; the ordinary
traveller seldom or never secures an authentic specimen. Travellers are
specially warned against purchasing papyri without expert advice. Purchases
should not be made in presence of the dragomans, as these individuals,
by tacit agreement, receive a percentage from the dealers, which is, of
course, added to the price. Only as many piastres as they ask shillings
should ever be offered to the importunate hawkers of antiquities at the
temples and tombs. Those who desire a genuine memorial of antiquity
should apply to the director of the hotel or to the British or German
consular agents (the latter of whom has a collection of antiquities well
worth seeing). Prices vary greatly; 10—205., or even more, must be paid
for a good scarabaeus with ﬁne polish. Good and reliable specimens may
be obtained from Mohammed Muhasseb and ‘Abd el-Megid.

Photographs. Good photographs are produced by A. Beato in Luxor,
but even in Shepheard’s and other hotels in Cairo, excellent photographs
of Egyptian temples are sold at moderate prices. Those by Sébah are
excellent.

Distribution of Time. Travellers by the tourist-steamers are more or
less committed to the prescribed programme (comp. p. 186). Those who
are at liberty to arrange their time for themselves will ﬁnd the following
programmes convenient.

THREE DAYS” VISIT. 1st day. Luxor and Karnak (E. bank). Though
visitors are sometimes advised to reserve this, the most gigantic of the
monuments, to the last, it is really desirable to visit Karnak ﬁrst of all,
before fatigue has begun. The traveller who visits Karnak on the ﬁrst
day proceeds then to view the other lions, with the satisfactory feeling
that Thebes has fulﬁlled his highest expectations; and he will not fail to
take a later opportunity to return to refresh and conﬁrm his ﬁrst im-
pression. A visit by moonlight is exceedingly attractive, but travellers
are advised not to make it alone, even although there is nothing to fear
from robbers. —- Visitors should ride early to Karnak, while the temple
of Luxor, easily reached in a few minutes from the steamer or hotel,
may be reserved for an afternoon-visit.

2nd day. Cross the river early, visit the Colossi of Memnon, Medinet
Habu, Dér el-Medineh, the Ramesseum, and ﬁnally some of the Tombs
of Shékh rAbd el-Kurna. The view at sunset from this point is of in-
com arable beauty and interest.

grd day. Cross the river early, visit the temple of Sethos I. at Kurna,
ride to Biban el-Mulﬁk with the famous Tombs of the Kings, then cross
the ridge to visit the terrace temple of Der el-bahri.

FOUR DAYS” VISIT. —— 1st day. Lnxor and Karnak. — 2nd day. Temple
of Sethos 1., Tombs of the Kings, Der el—bahri, and the Ramesseum. —
3rd day. Colossi of Memnon, Medinet Habu, Dér el-Medineh, and Shékh
‘Abd el-Kurna. — 4th day. Great Temple of Karnak.

FIVE DAYS” VISIT. — 1st day. Luxor and Karnak. — 2nd day. On
the W_ bank, Colosci nf‘ “[amnnn Marlin-st Hahn Our-gens” Tombs, Dér

