242 Route 24. Tﬂlﬁlﬂtb Ln. 151mm). 1. Doctor.

now destroyed. One chapel (L) was dedicated to the goddess Mnt,
the other (M) to the moon—god Khons. — A door in the centre of
the rear-wall admits to a smaller hall, which originally had eight
columns, and was converted into a Church (Pl. E) in the Christian
period. The ancient entrance to the sanctuary—chambers has here
been altered into a kind of apsidal recess, bounded on the right and
left by two granite Corinthian columns. At a few points the Christian
whitewash has peeled off, permitting the ‘heathen’ reliefs of Amen-
ophis III. to become visible again. Adjoining the church are sev-
eral small rooms (Pl. H, I, K).

We now return to the hypostyle hall and quit the temple by a
door on the E. side (beside Pl. K), but re—enter it almost immediately
to inspect the Birth Room (Pl. R), the roof of which rests upon
three clustered columns. The room owes its name to the Beliefs on
the W. wall, referring to the birth of Amenophis III. The reliefs
on the S. wall refer to his accession to the throne.

WEs'r WALL. Lowest Row (from left to right): 1. The god Khnum moulds
two infants (Amenophis 111. and his guardian-spirit) upon the potter‘s
wheel; opposite is seated Isis. 2. Khnum and Ammon. 3. Ammon and
Met-em-wa, mother of Amenophis 111., seated upon the hieroglyphic sym-
bol for ‘heaven‘, and supported by the goddesses Selket and Neith. 4. Am-
mon conversing with Thout. 5. Isis (defaced) embracing Queen Met-em-wa;
to the right stands Ammon. — Middle Row.- 1. Thout foretells to Met-
em-wa the birth of her son. 2. The pregnant Met-em-wa conducted by
Isis and Khnum. 4. Conﬁnement of Met—em-wa; beside and beneath the
couch are Bes, Toeris, and other genii. 4. Isis (defaced) presents the
new-born prince to Ammon. 5. Ammon with the child in his arms; beside
him are Hathor- and Nut. — Top Row (difﬁcult to distinguish owing to
the lowness of the relief): 1. To the left is the queen, with the goddess
Selket seated behind her; to the right two goddesses suckle the infant
prince and his guardian-spirit; below, the prince and his guardian-spirit
suckled by two cows. 2. Nine deities holding the prince. 3. The god
Hekaw (painted blue) carrying the prince and his guardian-spirit; behind
is the Nile-god. 4. Horus hands the prince and his guardianspirit to
Ammon. 5. Khnnm and Anubis. 6. The prince and his guardian-spirit
seated and standing before Ammon. 7. (in the corner), Amenophis as king.

From the Birth Room we enter Room Q, the roof of which is
supported by three columns, and thence, glancing at the much
damaged reliefs, we pass through an arched doorway into the so—
oalled —

Sanctuary of Alexander the Great (Pl. G). This chamber was
practically rebuilt by Alexander, who replaced the original four
supporting columns in the centre by a chapel, in which the sacred
boat of Ammon was preserved. The reliefs covering both the in-
terior and exterior walls of the chapel represent Alexander before
Ammon and his fellow—gods. 0n the walls of the chamber the reliefs
of Amenophis 111. have been left (the king before the various Theban
deities). -— A gap in the wall on the N. side of the Sanctuary ad-
mits us to a small square Hall (Pl. F), with four clustered papyrus-
columns. The wall-reliefs, which are in three rows, show Amen-
ophis III. before Ammon and other Theban deities. The door hence
to the Sanctuary has been built up.

