268 Route 24. THEBES (W.BANK). 4. Tombs

ceiling show interesting astronomical representations, with well-preserved
colouring. On the right wall appears the boat of the sun, in which the
sun-god stands in the shape of a beetle with a ram‘s head, and is wor-
shipped by two human-headed birds, the souls of Kheper'é and Atnm.
The boat is being drawn across the heavens, which are supported by two
li'ms, and descends to the left. The Arabs call this Shelldl, tie. the
Cataract. On the ceiling the goddess of the sky appears twice, repre-
senting the sky by day and by night.

No. 10 is the Tomb of Amen-meses, one of the pretenders to the
throne at the end of the 19th Dyn. (p.1xxxiii). His mother Takhat
and his wife Beket-u'erer were also buried here. The representa-
tions in this tomb have been deliberately destroyed.

**N0. 11. Tomb of Ramses III. This imposing tomb, usually
called ‘Bruce’s Tomb’ or ‘The Harper’s Tomb’, is inferior in size
only to No. 17 and No. 14. The style of the sculptures is not the
best, but the variety and richness of the representations are unex-
celled. This tomb possesses a unique peculiarity in the ten side-
chambers, opening off the ﬁrst two corridors. The tomb was begun
and ﬁnished as far as Room III by Setnakht, father of Ramses 11L;
his cartouches are still to be seen at various places Where the later
stucco has fallen oﬁ.

The entrance is approached by the usual ﬂight of steps with
inclined plane; on each side of it are two pilasters with bull’s
heads. Over the door is the usual representation of Isis and Neph-
thys, as at No. 8. —- CORRIDOR I. To the right and left Of the
entrance are kneeling ﬁgures of the goddess Maat, sheltering those
who enter with her Wings. On the Left Wall is the king be-
fore Harmachis, followed by the title of the ‘Praising of Re”, the
sun (as above) between a serpent, a crocodile, and two gazelles’
heads. Then follows the text of the ‘Praising of Re’, which is con-
tinued on the Right Wall. —- SIDE CHAMBER 1 (to the left) 2~ Baking,
slaughtering, and cooking scenes. —- SIDE CHAMBER ‘2 (to the right) :
Two rows of ships, in the upper row with sails set, in the lower
row with sails furled. — CORRIDOR II, with recesses on both sides.
On both sides the ‘Praising of Re’ is continued, with the appro-
priate ﬁgures of the god (p. 263), who approach Isis on the left
wall and Nephthys on the right. -— SIDE CHAMBER 3 (to the left).
In the Upper Row (beginning on the left entrance-wall) we see a
kneeling Nile—god bestowing his gifts upon seven gods Of fertility
(with ears of corn on their heads); and (beginning on the right
entrance-wall) a Nile-god before the serpent-headed goddess Napret
(‘corn’), ﬁve royal snakes, clad with aprons, and two gods of fer-
tility. In the dilapidated Lower Row, to the left, the Nile-god of
Upper Egypt presents gifts to ten clothed royal serpents; to the
right, the Nile-god of Lower Egypt before Napret and three royal
serpents. —- SIDE CHAMBER 4 (to the right) may be called the king’s
armoury, for its walls are covered with representations of weapons,
standards, armour, etc. On the Entrance Walls, the sacred black
bull Meri stands on the ‘southern lake” (to the left), and the black

