of the Kings. THEBES (W. BANK). ~24. Route. 271

(the souls of Pe and Nekhen). On the rear-wall, further to the right,
Ramses}. dedicates four parcels to the beetle—headed Atum-Ré-Khepre,
Harsxesxs, Atum, and Neith leading the king to the throne of Osiris. ——
The Rtght Wall is pierced by the entrance to another small chamber.
The representations are from Chap. ii of the ‘Book of the Portals‘. At
the top are eight men towing the bark of the sun by a rope passing
through a beam on which are seated seven small deities and two white
bulls. TO the left the train is received by four gods of the dead, in
white garments. Below, to the left, are Atum and the Apophis serpent;
to the right, Atum and nine other deities.

”No. 17. Tomb of Sethos I., usually known as Belmoni’s Tomb
from its discoverer in Oct, 1817. In beauty of execution it far
surpasses all the other tombs of Bibﬁn el-Mulﬁk, and the sculp—
tures on its walls appear to have been executed by the same
artists whose works we had the opportunity of admiring at Abydos
(p. 218). In size it resembles Nos. 11 and 14; its length is 330 ft.
A steep ﬂight Of steps descends to the entrance.

CORRIDOR I. On the Left Wall is the king before the hawk:
headed Harmachis. Then follows the title of the ‘Praising of Re’,
with the sun-disk bearing a scarabaeus and the ram-headed sun-
god, between a serpent, a crocodile, and two cows’ heads. The
adjoining text is taken from the ‘Praising of Re’ (p. 263), which is
continued on the Right Wall. The Calling is decorated with ﬂying
vultures. — CORRIDOR II (with staircase). On the upper part of
the recess in the Left Wall are represented 37 forms of the sun-
god, from the ‘Praising of Re” (p. 263), above a text from the ‘Book
of that which is in the Underworld’. This is repeated on the Right
Wall. At Pl. (1 is Isis, at P1. b, Nephthys, both kneeling upon the
hieroglyph for ‘gold7 and placing their hands upon a seal-ring ; above
is the god Anubis as a jackal. — CORRIDOR III. On the Left Wall
(Pl. 0) is the journey of the sun during the 5th hour of night, from
the 5th chapter of the ‘Book of that which is in the Underworld’.

In the Middle Row the boat of the sun (destroyed) is being drawn
through the territory of the god of the dead, Sokaris of Memphis, by seven
gods and seven goddesses; before it march four gods and the goddess ‘Isis
of the West‘. In the Lower Row are daemons: four ﬂaming heads; between
two serpents is the dwelling of Sokaris , resting upon two sphinxes, within
which is the hawk-headed Sokaris standing upon a winged serpent with
three heads, above is a mountain crowned with a human head (destroyed).
On the ground are seated four spirits with the crowns of Upper and
Lower Egypt, a ram‘s head, and a double feather upon their knees. In
the Top Row are various spirits, etc.

On the Right Wall, at P1. d, appears the journey of the sun
during the 4th hour of night, from the 4th chapter Of the ‘Book of
that which is in the Underworld’.

The boat of the sun is being drawn through the territory of Sokaris,
which is depicted in the Top and Bottom Rows. This is penpled by daemons
of various kinds, serpents , and serpent-like monsters, including a four-
legged snake with a human head (destroyed), a three-headed snake with
wings and human legs, etc. The last serpent in the bottom row has
three heads, and above its back are 14 human heads with suns and stars,
which perhaps represent the patron-deities of the 14 days in the lunar
half-month. In the Middle Row the boat is preceded by Horus and Thout
carrying an eye, etc.

