BUILDINGS OF THE MOHAMMEDANS. Clxi

corresponding to the atrium of a Byzantine basilica, lie four ﬂat-
roofed colonnades (liwan), used for prayers. The Chief Liwén or
Sanctuary, placed on the side next Mecca, has usually four or ﬁve
aisles, the others never more than two. The CRUCIFORM MOSQUE,
a new form invented in Persia, was introduced into Egypt about the
end of the 12th cent. by the Eyyubide Saladin. This was developed
from the previous simple form by the construction of additional
chambers at the four corners of the liwans, in such a way that the
liwans, now covered with massive waggon-vaults, formed the four
arms of a cross. Comp. the plan of the mosque of Sultan Hasan
(p. 50). These liwans were used as school-rooms, whence arose
the name Medreseh, or ‘school—mosque’. — Towards the close of
the Mameluke supremacy still another form arose, used, however,
only for small mOSques. The side-liwans were shortened and the
central court so contracted that it could be roofed over and lighted
from the top. The four arms of the cross were covered with ﬂat
roofs, like the colonnades in the original form of mosque, while the
waggon-vaulting was represented merely by a transverse rib on the
side next the court (comp. plan of the mosque of Kait-Bey, p. 67).

With the conquest of Egypt by the Turks under Selim 1., the
Turkish-Byzantine style of architecture also made its appearance in
that country. The four liwans were superseded by a single sanc-
tuary, consisting of a main building covered with domes and usually
preceded by a second court. .

The smaller prayer—rooms, frequently added to private houses
and not unlike the Christian chapels, were known as Zéwiyeh.

We now turn to inspect the Internal Equipment of the mosque.
The centre of the court was originally occupied by a fountain, be—
neath a canopy supported upon columns. This was intended for
ornament only, for the prescribed ablutions were performed at a
special basin (Mégla) in an adjoining court. Under Turkish rule
the fountain was frequently replaced by an apparatus provided
with taps and known as the Hanefiyeh.

The sanctuary contains the Kibla or Mibrc‘zb, the prayer-niche
turned towards Mecca. Here also we observe: (1) the Mimbar, or
pulpit, to the right of the Kibla, usually embellished with orna-
mental panels and incrustation; (‘2) the Kursz‘ (p1. Kenisi), the
seat of the Imam, together with a desk, on which the Koran (which
is kept at other times in a cabinet of its own) lies open during
divine service; (3) the Dikkeh, a podium borne by columns, and
surrounded by a low railing, from which the Moballain (assistants
of the Khatib) repeat the words of the Koran, which is read at the
Kibla, for the beneﬁt of the people at a distance; (4) the various
lamps and lanterns (Tam‘w, large chandelier; Thoraiya, lit. ‘seven
stars’, small chandelier; Fém‘ts, lamp; Kandil, small oil-lamp).

The Exterior of the earliest mosques was absolutely plain. The
court was enclosed by a simple battlemented wall and was entered

BAICDI-zlmn‘s "“ " 1

 

