Temple of Hathor. DENDERA. 22. Route. 227

front of this great hall; but perhaps the means to add these were
not forthcoming.

If we compare the temple of Dendera with a similar structure
of the earlier period, such as the temple of Abydos or the great
national sanctuary of Karnak, we ﬁnd it not less beautiful in its
own way, though of course far from competing with these gigantic
structures in magniﬁcence or extent. Its chief characteristics are a
ﬁne symmetry of proportions and digniﬁed adaptation to its pur-
poses. Neither the ﬁgures nor the inscriptions sculptured on the
walls compare in masterly execution with those in the tombs of
the ancient kingdom or with those in temples dating from the
reigns of Thutmosis III. and Sethos I. ; but we cannot refuse our
admiration even to these products of later Egyptian art.

The rubbish round the temple reaches to the balustrades be-
tween the columns in front and nearly to the roof on the E. side;
hence the ﬂoor of the temple appears sunken and is reached by a
ﬂight of steps.

We ﬁrst enter the Great Vestibule, or Pronaos, which has
24 sistrum—columns with heads of Hathor (p. cxxxvii). At the top
of the facade is a huge concave cornice, in the middle of which is
the winged sun-disk.

On the upper edge of the cornice is the following Greek inscription
Of three lines: 'Y'rt'ep Aviroxpoiropo: Ttﬁspiou Katcapoc Néou Eeﬁac'roﬁ 3506
Zeﬁacroﬁ btob é-nzl. Ablou At’nhhiou (Ndxxou ﬁyeubvo: mi A6100 @wkoutou
Kptc-nzou émarpatﬁyou Eupaniuwoc Tpuxduﬁou arpmmoﬁvtoc 016mb 1-7]: pm-
rponokew: mi. “:06 vouob To npévaov 'Atgpo'éatrm Bear. “evict-m xal rot; auv-
vdoc: 3501:. L [ . .. thilsptou Kaiaapolc, ]. —- For [behoof 0f] the Em-
peror Tiberius, the young Augustus, son of the divine Augustus, under the prefect
Aulus Avitlius Flaccus, the governor Aulus Fulvt‘us Crispus. and the district
governor Sm‘apion, son of Trychambos, the inhabitants of the capital and of
the nome dedicated the Pronaos to the great goddess Aphrodite and her fellow
gods, in the . . . . year of the Emp. Tiberius . . . .’

The exterior front of the hall is enclosed by six balustrades be-
tween the columns in the ﬁrst row. Between the central pair of
columns is a door, half the height of the columns. The interior
walls of the pronaos are decorated with four rows of representations.
These depict the ruler (in succession the Roman emperors Augus-
tus, Tiberius, Caligula, Claudius, and Nero) advancing with votive
offerings for Hathor and the other gods worshipped in the temple. The
reliefs (chiselled out) 011 the balustrades between the columns (P1. a-f)
refer to the ceremonial entrance of the ruler into the sanctuary.

RELrErs ON THE BALUSTRADES. To the right of the Entrance (Pl. a,
b, c). In awe see the king, wearing the crown of Lower Egypt. quitting
the palace, followed by his guardian-spirit and preceded by a priest offer-
ing incense. In b the haWK—headed Horns and the ibis-headed Thout
Sprinkle the king with the symbols of life, in c the goddesses of the south
and of the north bestow blessings upon the king. To the left (on the W.
wall) is a. relief: the king is conducted before Hathor by the gods Mont
of Thebes and Atum of Heliopolis. —— The representations on Pl. e, d. f,

to the left of the entrance, are similar, except that in d the king w ears
the crown of Upper Egypt.

The sculptured ORNAMENTATIONS ox THE CEILING are also interesting.
They are divided by the columns into seven bands, running from end

15"

