Quarters. UAIHU. 4. ttoute. 0':

From the E. outer court we enter the chief Liwan (see below:
or sanctuary, and thence proceed to the inner quadrangle or Sal"
el-dei‘a, 99 yds. square. With the exception of the ceilings, whicl
had to be restored in order to protect the interior, the building has
been preserved almost intact, though its ﬁtting up has been frequently
altered. The most important renovations were carried out by Lagin
afterwards Sultan Mansﬁr. It was he who erected the mausoleum-
like Dome (Pl. 6) in the centre of the court, covering an octagona'
basin on the site of an old well. The court is surrounded by a doublc
arcade, except on the sanctuary side, where the arcade is quadruple
while a ﬁfth row of arches collapsed in 1875. Pointed Opening:
above the pillars serve to lighten the weight of the masonry, anc'
the facades are crowned by a medallion-frieze with open -worl
pinnacles. The pillars are polished and have their corners roundec'
into quarter-columns, with delicately carved capitals. By one o:
the pillars of the sanctuary is a marble tablet bearing the charte]
of the mosque in ancient Arabic (Cuﬂc) characters. The origina'
roof of the arcades, of which remains are extant above the dikkeh1
was made of beams of date-palm, overlaid with sycamore wood.
Along the top of the walls runs a frieze of sycamore wood, inscribec'
with texts from the Koran. According to the testimony of Makriz:
this wood belonged to Noah’s Ark, which was found by Ibn Tulur
on Mt. Ararat.

The Prayer Recess (Pl. 5) has ﬁne Byzantine capitals and remain:
of gilded mosaic. The wooden cupola in front of it has lately bee]
restored. The Pulpit erected by Melik el—Mansﬁr in {1298 stil
deserves close attention, though it has been robbed of its charac-
teristic panels carved in ebony and ivory. These were sold in Europe,
and most of them are now in South Kensington Museum.

The Minaret (Pl. 7), in the N.W. outer court, is built of stone.
instead of brick, and also shows peculiarities in its square lower
section and elsewhere. The ascent is easy, and the top commands
an admirable *View. To the S. are the pyramids of Dahshﬁr, and
to the W. the huge pyramids of Gizeh; the valley of the Nile as far
as the Delta lies before us; to the E. rise the picturesque slopes oi
the Mokattam and the Citadel; and in the foreground all round lies
Cairo, with its houses, mosques, palaces, and gardens. From the
minaret access is gained to the concrete roofs of the arcades, pro~
tected by elegant balustrades; a walk round these is recommended.

Outside the entrance to the mosque we turn to the right, and
after about 140 paces, to the right again. Passing the S.W. side 01
the mosque, and turning a little to the left, we traverse several
lanes and alleys, all in the old quarter of Kal‘at el-Kebsh (p. 54),
and reach the small, but once handsome —-

Gami'a. gait Bey (P1. 0, 7), which was erected in the rich By-
zantine-Arabian style during the reign of [MR Bey (1468-96;
p. xcvii), whose tomb (p. 66) it resembles in plan. Its threatened

