Temple of Isis. PHIL/E. 29. Route. 339

unﬁnished capitals should be noticed. In the back-wall are ﬁve
doors, which led to various chapels.

This colonnnde is adjoined at its S. end by the now very ruinous
TEMPLE 0F Annnsuornn (Arsnuphi's), a Nubian deity, erected by Philopator
and Ergamenes, his Nubian contemporary, and extended by Epiphanes.
Upon the e_xrsting walls, some of which have been rebuilt, are represent-
ations in raised and incised reliefs of the customary scenes, in which Philo-
pator, Ergamenes, Epiphanes, and Tiberius ﬁgure as the Pharaoh. — Be-
hind the central part of the colonnade lay the small CHAPEL or MANDULIS,
another Nubian deity, ,now in a very fragmentary condition; and at the N.
end of the colonnade 1s a small TEMPLE OF IMHOTEP (Escalapius), built by
Philadelphus.

The *Temple of Isis, dedicated to Isis and ber son Harpocrates,
was the principal sanctuary on the island and probably occupies
the site of an earlier shrine. Its erection, begun by Ptolemy Phila—
delphus, was completed in its essential details by Euergetes I., but
its embellishment with inscriptions and reliefs was a very gradual
process, and at not a fow points was never ﬁnished.

The FIRST PYLON, 150 ft. broad and 60 ft. high, consists of two
towers and a central portal, decorated by Nektauebos with the custom-
ary reliefs. 0n the front of the right tower appears a huge ﬁgure
of the Pharaoh (Ptolemy Neos Dionysos) in the usual attitude,
grasping a band of enemies by the hair, and raising his club for the
fatal stroke. To the left stand Isis, the hawk-headed Horus of
Edfu, and Hathor. Above are two reliefs: to the right, the king
(Neos Dionysos) presents the crown of Upper and Lower Egypt to
Horns and Nephthys, to the left, he offers incense to Isis and Har-
pocrates. 0n the left tower are similar representations, and at the
foot are numerous demotic and Greek inscriptions. A doorway,
embellished with reliefs by Philometor, leads through the left tower
direct to the entrance of the Birth House (p. 340). In front of the
pylon formerly stood two obelisks, erected by Euergetes 11., and two
lions, all of granite. One of the obelisks (which bears an important
Greek inscription) and portions of the other are now in England;
While one of the lions has been placed on the base of the left obe-
lisk, and the other lies on the ground. — The terrace is modern,
dating from 1896.

Adjoining the E. pylon-tower, to the right, is an elegant Gateway,
which was built by Ptolemy Philadelphus and originally stood in a
brick-wall. It is embellished with reliefs of Ptolemy (on the lintel)
and Tiberius (on the jambs).

The “ASCENT or THE PrLoN is recommended. The winding staircase
begins in the S.E. angle of the fore-court (see below). Several unadorned
and feebly lighted chambers are found within the towers. The view
from the top commands the whole island and its surroundings.

We now pass through the central gateway, within which, to the
right, is a French inscription (‘an 7 de la republique’] commemorating
Napoleon’s Egyptian campaign and the pursuit of the Mamelukes
by General Desaix in 1799.

The FORE COURT, which we next enter, is bounded on the S. by

22*

