Street Scenes. CAIRO. 4. Route. 35

are frequently of a dark colour, but in many cases are scarcely
distinguishable from th0se of orthodox believers.

The Women of the poorer and rustic classes wear nothing but
a blue gown and a veil. Their ornaments consist of silver, copper,
or bead bracelets, earrings, and ankle-rings,
while their chins, arms, and chests are often
tatooed with blue marks. Similar tatooing
is also common among the men. In Upper
Egypt nose-rings are also frequently seen.
The women of the upper classes are never
so handsomely dressed in the streets as at
home. When equipped for riding or walk-
ing, they wear a silk cloak, with very wide
sleeves {téb or sableh),over their home attire.
They also don the burlco', or veil, which con-
sists of a long strip of muslin, covering the
whole of the face except the eyes, and reach-
ing nearly to the feet. Lastly they put on
the babara, a kind of mantle, which in
the case of married women consists of two
breadths of glossy black silk. Thus disguised,
they look unnaturally broad and unwieldy,
and not unlike bats. Young girls usually wear a white mantle.
The wealthier ladies, who drive in their carriages attended by eu-
nuchs, usually veil their faces up to their eyes with thin white
gauze in accordance with the fashion of Constantinople. The ﬁgures
of Egyptian women, in early life, are generally upright and grace-
ful. They colour their eyelashes and eyelids
dark, and. their ﬁnger and toe-nails with
henna, which gives them a brownish-yellow
tint. Among other customs we may also
mention the peculiar'mode in which a wo—
man carries her child, either astride her
shoulder, or resting on her hip. With regard
to circumcision, weddings, and funerals, see
pp. lxix, etc.

Amid this busy throng of men and animals
resound the warning shouts of outrunners
(sais), coachmen, donkey- attendants, and
camel-drivers. The words most commonly
heard are — ‘riglak’, ‘shemt‘zlalc’, ‘yeminak’,
‘a’a, ﬁ’d’. As a rule, these warnings are
accompanied by some particularizing title.
Thus, ‘riglak yd mﬁsyu’ Lmonsieur), or ‘riglak
yd khawdgeh’ (‘your foot, sir’, Le. ‘take care
of your foot’; khawégeh is the usual title given to Europeans by the
Arabs, and is said to have originally meant ‘merchant’ only); ‘she-

3*

 

 

