Upper Floor. MUSEUM OF GiZEH. 6. Route. 93

ROOM XLV. — Case A. Second section: Terracotta ﬂasks of
the Roman period (No. 364 is from Cyprus); 366. Bronze hilt of a
Roman sword; 36‘7. Two—edged axe; 368. 'Early-Greek or Cyprian
statuette in alabaster, from Sais. —- Third section: Vases, statuettes,
lamps, terracotta reliefs.

Case B: Vases and portions of statuettes. 381. Tasteful small
stele of limestone, in the shape of a naos, a votive gift from an
interpreter of dreams. Various utensils and ﬁgures in blue enamel-
led earthenware. 383. Small alabaster ﬁgure of Venus untying her
sandal.

Between Cases B and C: 384. Serpent from the temple of
[Esculapius at Ptolemai’s (head modern). — Case C.- Greek vases,
chiefly of the 6-4th cent. B.C., some manufactured in the pot—
teries of Naucratis, and some imported from the Greek motherland.
The vases with red ﬁgures are the latest, those with brownish-red
ﬁgures on a greyish-yellow ground are the earliest. — Case D.-
Terracottas. On the two top shelves are specimens of the favourite
grotesque caricature ﬁgures; in the two beneath, ﬁgures of Venus.
— Case E: Works in ivory, chiefly fragments of caskets, on some
of which traces of painting may be seen.

Between Cases E and F :, Cut gems of the Greek period, some
showing Gnostic inscriptions and designs.

Case F.- Terracotta statuettes, resembling the Tanagra ﬁgures,
and obviously in some cases modelled with Tanagra forms. N0. 385,
one of the best, represents a faun lying on a wineskin on the ground,
from the mouth of which he permits a stream of wine to escape.

Case G: Vases and statuettes. 386. Blue enamelled terracotta
vase; 387. Isis; 3'88. Fragment of a ﬁne Greek vase; 389. Bronze
incense-burner; 390. Isis, of the Ptolemaic period (the eyes were
inlaid); 392. Round limestone incense altar (ashes still preserved),
with tasteful base; 393. Earthen pot with bronze coins of the reigns
of Diocletian and Constantine.

Case H: Bronze statuettes of the Greece-Roman period.

394. Wooden cofﬁn, with a lid in the form of a roof, in good
workmanship 0f the Greek period (comp. No. 345, R. XLIV); 395.
Wooden cofﬁn of the Roman period, with garlands all round, and at
the foot, a ﬁgure of Anubis, with a tree behind; 396. Mummy of
a girl, with portrait on wood; 397. Two mummies 0f the latest
Egyptian period (3rd or 4th cent. after Christ), wrapped in cloths
adorned with gilt ornaments and ﬁgures in relief; 398. Mummy of
a girl, with portrait; 399. Four crudely executed granite statues,
with Greek and demotic inscriptions, from Demeh (p. 182; 2nd
cent. after Christ). 400. Cofﬁn-lid, in the shape of a naos in which
stands Osiris; 401. Linen mummy—covering, with female portrait.

We return to Room XLlV and enter Room XLVI (Gallery), to
the left.

