Derel—bahfri. THEBES (w. BANK). 24. Route. 283

while Priests offer incense or perform other rites. On the end-wall is re-
presented the door that led into the kingdom of the dead.

In the W. wall of the Upper Court is a series of RECEssEs, al-
ternately large and small, containing representations of Thutmo-
s1s III. and Makere in presence of the gods. In the middle is the
entrance to the Sanctuary. In the left corner opens the small
Room H, 1n the right the so-called Hall of Ammon, both of which
may be omitted by hurried visitors.

ROOM _H: The ceiling is Well preserved. On the right wall appears
Ammon-Re in front of an altar, which replaces the eﬁ'aced ﬁgure of Ma-
kerc. Behind the altar is the queen‘s. guardian spirit. On the rear-wall
are Thutmosis III. and Thutmosis I. (substituted for Makere) oﬂ‘ering
clothes to Ammon. On the left Thutmosis II. (substituted for Makeré)
offers sacred or] to the ithyphallic Ammon.

HALL or AMMoN. Part of the ceiling, decorated with stars on a. blue
ground, still remains. 0n the left side-wall we observe Makere pacing
out the temple-precincts, before Ammon, before the ithyphallic Ammon-
Min7 and before the enthroned Ammon. On the right wall is Thutmosis 111.
before these same gods. On the end-wall is Thutmosis II. (originally
Makeré) before Ammon. The ﬁgures of the gods here were defaced by
Amenophls IV. and were not replaced at the restoration under Ramses II.

A granite Portal, reached by an approach dating from the Ptole—
maic period, with balustrades, forms the entrance to the SANCTUARY.
The three chambers (Pl. E, F, G) are unfortunately much damaged.
The ﬁrst two have vaulted ceilings and are adjoined by recesses. The
representations in the [st Chamber (Pl. E) show Makere [sometimes
Thutmosis III.) sacriﬁcing to various deities, among whom ﬁgures

the deceased Thutmosis II.

On the upper part of the right wall is a noteworthy scene: Makere,
Thutmosis 111., and the princess Ranofru sacriﬁce to the boat of Am-
mon, behind which stood Thutmosis I. with his consort Ahmes, and their
little daughter Bitnofru. A similar scene was represented above the
recess (Pl. 2) on the left wall; the kneeling Thutmosis III. and Princess
Ranofru may still be distinguished.

The 3rd Room (Pl. G) was restored under Euergetes II. The
reliefs and inscriptions of this late period compare very unfavour-
ably with the masterly sculptures of Makere.

In the rocks to the N. of the central court is the tomb of Nofru, a
queen of the Middle Empire. The passage, only about 3ft. high, leads
into a sepulchral chamber, covered with inscriptions. This tomb (explored
by Ebers) was probably covered up during the building of the temple. -—
Near the keeper’s house (p. 278) is a. large shaft-tomb (perhaps of the
Middle Kingdom), excavated by Carter in 1900.

A few yards to the N. of the Lower Court is the square well-shaft,
forming the entrance to the common Tomb of the Theban Priests, which
was discOvered in 1891 by Gre’baut, and which yielded a. rich antiquarian
booty now in the Museum of Grizeh (p. 100).

The Shafl in which the famous discovery of Kings‘ Mummies was
made in 1881 (p. 101) is now ﬁlled up. It lies less than 1/2 M. to the S.
of the temple of Der el-bahri.

A short distance to the E. of the temple of Der el—bahri, in the
direction 0f the temple of I_{urna, we reach a valley between the hill
of Shékh rAbd el-Kurna on the S. and the cliffs of the Dér el-bahri
valley on the N. and E. Here lies the necropolis known by the Arabs

