382 Route 36. ABU HAMMED. Von wads Hal/“LL

—-— Information with regard: to, and tickets for, the railway and steamer
service between Cairo and Khartﬁm may be obtained in Cairo at the ofﬁces
of Cook a» Son, Grace .c Sons, the Anglo-American Nile Steamer 00., and the
Tewﬁkz‘ch ('0. (see p. 26').

dei Halfa and excursions thence to the Second Cataract and
to Semneh, see pp. 376-379.

Fnon WSDI HALFA TO NEW DONGOLA, 204 31.; military railway (two
trains weekly) to (173 M.) Kermeh in 2’4 hrs.; thence steamer. — The
following are the chief railway—stations. 35 M. Sum-us, with a fort built
as a protection against the Mahdists; 50 M. Ambigol; 63 M. Al‘arheh. —
93 M. Fer/rah. On the Nile here is the ruined temple of Almira, a large
ediﬁce of the late-Ethiopian period. On the island of 0122', farther to the
S., are the remains of a temple of Thutmosis III. and Amenophis 11., and
a Uoptic church; and at Soleb is a well-preserved temple of Amenophis III.
— 130 M. Said Fami. ~—- 173 M. Kermeh or Kerman is situated at the
Third Cataract. In the vicinity are traces of an ancient city and an ex-
tensive necrnpolis, with pylon-shaped erections of sun-dried bricks. To
the N. lies the island of Tomb TS, which marked the S. limit of the Egyptian
power at the beginning of the New Empire. 0n the island are a few
rock-inscriptions. — From Kermeh a government-steamer plies up the
Nile. passing the island of Argo, to (31 M.) the town of New Dongola, or
El-Ordeh, situated on the left bank. This thriving tOWn, with 15,000 inhab.
is the capital of the province of Dongola, and the starting—point- of the
caravan-routes to the oasis of Selimu. — ’I‘o Old Dongolu, see p. 383.

The construction of the railway to Khartnm was undertaken in
1896-97 in order to support the advance of the Anglo-Egyptian
army; and in spite of the enormous difﬁculty of laying a railway-
line across the sandy and stony surface of the desert, the work was
so energetically carried on that it advanced almost a mile daily. As
in other parts of Egypt (comp. p. 166) the one essential point was
the provision of an adequate supply of water for the workmen and
the machinery. A series of watering—stations (I-VI) was accordingly
established, at which wells, sunk to a depth of 80 ft., tap the sub-
terranean water, which is found to ﬂow from the S. When the
train stops, the numerous soldier—passengers ﬂock to the houses of
the guardians of the wells. —— 0n the E. rises the bare, violet—
coloured chain of hills, beyond which lies (1'24 M.) Bir Murat
and behind which runs the caravan—route from Korosko to Abu
Hammed (comp. p. 365). The stony desert gradually gives place
to undulating sand-hills. Isolated dum-palms, ﬁelds of barley,
conical sayal-acacias, and ﬁnally a grove of palms announce the
proximity of the Nile.

231 M. Abu Rammed (baths tor ladies and gentlemen). Behind
the post—sheds and the little house of the British ofﬁcial, we have
a glimpse of the poor village and of the Nile. Crocodiles are some—
times seen sunning themselves on the rocks. The important position
at the bend of the river, which here turns abruptly to the S.W., was
Captured from the dervishes in Aug‘., 1897, by General Hunter, who

had advanced from Dongola.

About 75 M. to the S.\V. of Abu Hammad, and 4 M. to the NE. of JIM-ant,
a village situated beside the Fourth Cataract, is the Gebel Burkal, the
‘sacred mountain" of ancient inscriptions. This isolated rocky hill rises
from a plain on the right bank of the Nile, about 11/2 M. from the river,

