History. PHIL/E. ~29. Route. 337

guarded. But Anas el-Wogdd could not forget his love. He forsook the
court and wandered far and wide in search of her, and in the course of
his travels showed kindness to various animals in the desert and else-
where. At last a. hermit told him that he would ﬁnd Zahr el-Ward on
the island of Philae. He arrived on the bank of the river and beheld the
walls of. the castle, but was unable to reach the island, for the water all
around it was alive with crocodiles. As he stood lamenting his fate one of
the dangerous monsters odered to convey him to the island on his back, out
of gratltude for the young man‘s previous kindness to animals. The lover
was thus able to reach the prison of his mistress, and the guards suffered
him to remaln on the island, as he represented himself to be a. persecuted
merchant from a distant land. Birds belonging to Zahr el—Ward assured
hlm that she was on the island, but he could nevcr obtain sight of her.
Meanwhile the lady also became unable longer to endure her fate. Letting
herself down from her prison-window by means of a rope made of her
clothes, she found a compassionate ship-master, who conveyed her from
the island In Wthh the lover she sought then was. Then followed another
period of search and ﬁnally the meeting of the lovers. A marriage, with
the consent of the father, ends the tale. The Osiris Room on Philae (p. 34?)
is regarded by the Arabs as the bridal-chamber. The tale in the Arabian
Nights ends as follows: ‘50 they lived in the bosom of happiness to the
advanced age at which the roses of enjoyment must shed their leaves and
tender friendship take the place of passion‘.

The island, both by its situation and its population, strictly
belonged to Nubia. Its name does not occur in any of the earlier
inscriptions, and even Herodotus, who probably visited Elephantine
during his journey on the Nile (c. 440 B.C.), makes no mention of
this island. The ﬁrst mention of Philze dates from the reign of Nek-
tanebos (c. 350 B.C.), to which the oldest temple buildings on the
island belong. But there is little doubt that both Philze and the ad—
jacent island of Bigeh were inhabited and adorned with temples at

an earlier period than that.

The chief deity of Philae was the goddess Isis,- but Osiris and Nepllthys,
Hathor (p. 3113), Klmum and Satet, the gods of the cataracts. and other
deities, were also worshipped here. The imposing buildings, which to-day
lend the island its characteristic appearance, were erected by the Ptole-
mies during the last two centuries B.C. and the Roman emperors during
the ﬁrst three Christian centuries. Numerous inscriptions inform us that
Greek and Italian pilgrims ﬂocked in crowds to the shrine of the mysteri-
ous, benign, and healing goddess Isis. “7e know also that the goddess of
Philae was worshipped by the predatory Nubians and by the Blemmyes,
and that, even after their battles with the Emperor Marcian (401 A.D.),
the priests of these tribes were permitted to offer sacriﬁces to Isis along
with the Egyptian priests, and also obtained the right of removing the
miraculous image of the mighty goddess from theisland at certain solemn
festivals and of retaining it for some time. Even after all Egypt had long
been christianized, the ancient Isis-worship still held sway in Nubia. In
spite of the Edicts of Theodosius, the temples of Philae were not closed
until the reign of Justinian (5‘27-5li5), when some of their chambers were
used for Christian services. After the conquest of ngpt by the Arabs,
Philae embraced Islam, but in the meantime a Coptic town had been estab-
lished on the Island. Capt. H. G. Lyons of the Engineers (p. '78) and
Dr. L. Bwrehardt, a distinzuishcd German architect, who excavated the
ruins of this town in 1895-3}, found some of the streets in good preser-
vation. Several churches were also discovercd. The houses are built of
sandstone and sun»dric<l bricks, though in a few cases kiln-dried bricks
were used.

The traveller should visit the various points in the following order,
Without lingering too long over any of them, if his time be limited. It is

BLED] ”,l_w_ “”LJLL 11.: 22

