350 LOWER NUBIA.

During the season, however (from the middle of Dec. to the middle
of March), a government-steamer starts every Monday from Shellal
for wadi Halfa and back, taking 6 days for the trip and allowing a
short time at the most important points. The fare is of E 15, in-
cluding food. Additional particulars on application at the ofﬁces of
the Anglo-American Nile Steamer 00. (p. 185) or at Cook’s (p. 185).

The itinerary of the last-mentioned trip is as follows: —

Ist Day. Start from Shellal at 2 p.m. and ascend to Dendﬁr.

“2nd Day. Via Dakkeh (inspection of the temple) to Korosko.

3rd Day. In the morning ascent of the Awas el-Guarani. The
steamer starts at 9 a.m. for ‘Amada (inspection of the temple) and
Abu-Simbel.

4th Day. Inspection of the rock-temples at Abu—Simbel; then
upstream to Wadi Halfa. After an afternoon-visit to the Second
Cataract, the return-voyage is begun in the evening.

5th and 6th Days. Return-voyage, With a short halt at Kalabsheh.

Dahabiyehs. — The voyage by dahabiyeh (p. 187) requires from
4 to 6 weeks, according to the wind, and is now only undertaken by
travellers with special aims, such as archmologists and painters. The
scenery of Nubia is much more monotonous than that between Cairo
and Assuan, and its monuments, with the exception of the temples
of Abu-Simbel, are inferior in grandeur to those of Upper Egypt,
so that the ordinary tourist who uses a dahabiyeh is not repaid for
the additional cost of time and money. Fairly good dahabiyehs may
be hired at Shellal for about {E 20 per month, including the crew,
but provisions and bedding have to be furnished by the hirer.
Additional information may be obtained in the hotels at Assuan.
Pending the completion of the navigation canal (p. 336), dahabi-
yehs cannot at present be towed up the First Cataract.

For information as to Felakas, see p. 188.

Land and People. — Nubia extends from the First Cataract to
Khartﬁm, i.e. to 16° N. latitude. It is divided into Lower Nubia
(from Philw to wadi Halfa) and Upper Nubia (fromW'adi H alfa south-
wards). Politically, the portion to the N. of Faras (p. 376) belongs
to the Egyptian mudiriyeh of Assu'an, in which it forms the districts
of Abu Hor and Karosko. The rest of Lower Nubia and the whole
of Upper Nubia has, since its reconquest in 1898 (p. ciii), been
placed under the administration of the Anglo-Egyptian Sudan.
Even in Lower Nubia the cultivable area is seldom more than a
few hundred yards in Width, and at not a few points, especially
on the W. bank, the desert advances clear up to the river-brink.
The population is in consequence very scanty, viz. 96,500 in 1897.
Comp. p. xlv. — All the countries on the Upper Nile, from the
borders of Egypt southwards, were included by the ancient Egyp-
tians under the single name of Rash, the Cash of the Bible. The
Greeks and Romans called them Ethiopia. Lower Nubia was more
particularly known to the Egyptians as the ‘Frontier Land’ and

