1. Approaches to Egypt.

The time-tables and handbooks of the various steamship companies
(see below) give full infonnation both as to the direct sea-routes from
England and as to the steamers from Mediterranean ports. Particulars
of the overland routes (see p. 2) from England to the Mediterranean
will be found in Bradshaw‘s Conlinental Railway Guide (25.), the advertise—
ment pagcs of which also contain some shipping information. The ‘P. dz O.‘
Co. issues tickets for the sea-route out and the overland route home, or
vice versd. Heavy baggage should in all cases, if possible, be sent round
by steamer. — Travellers from the United States may sail direct from
New York to Naples or Genoa by German steamer (ﬁrst-class Only) and
proceed thence by one of the steamers mentioned at pp. 2—4.

Travellers who desire to return from Egypt by one of the larger mail
lines should secure a berth as soon as possible by applying to the ship-
ping ofﬁces in Cairo (p. 26), as these steamers are apt to be crowded
from February to April inclusive. Information as to available accom-
modation is telegraphed from Aden to Cairo. The days and hours given
below for the arrival and sailing of the steamers are approximate only,
except in the case of the terminal ports. At intermediate ports the steamers
'are sometimes behind itinerary time, and not unfrequently a day or two
in advance. In either case they proceed at once on their voyage.

Alexandria, the chief seaport of Egypt, is regularly visited by British,
French, Austrian, Italian, Russian, Greek, and Egyptian steamers. Port
said, on the Suez Canal, is touched at by the vessels of the great
Australian, Asiatic, and East African lines. — Cairo may be reached by
rail in 31/2 hrs. from Alexandria, and in 7 hrs. from Port Said. The rail-
way from Port Sa‘id is a narrow—gauge linc as far as Isma'iliya, where
carriages must be changed (p. 164; 1 hour‘s halt).

Alexandria is almost 30" E. of Greenwich, and its time is 1 hr. 59 min.
in advance of Grcenwich time; that of Cairo is 2hrs. 5 min. and that
of Port Sa‘id 2 hrs. 10 min. in advance of Greenwich. ‘Central Europe”
time (obscrved on German and Italian railways, etc.) is 1 hr. in advance
of Greenwich.

Owing to the advance in the price of coal, 3. surtax 0f 10 per cent is
at present charged on sea-passage fares to Egypt.

a. Steamers from England direct.

1. Steamers of the PENINSULAR AND ORIENTAL STEAM NAVI-
GATION Co. (T. & O.’), leaving London (Royal Albert Docks) every
Thurs, Frid., or Sat., sail via Gibraltar and Marseilles, or via
Gibraltar and Malta (see p. 2), in 12 days to Port Sa‘id (fares ist. cl.
20L, 2nd cl. 12L). Steamers of the same company occasionally call
at Alexandria during the Egyptian season (same fares as to Port
Sa‘id). Return-tickets to Egypt are not issued by this line, but a
reduction of one-third is allowed for the return-voyage if made
within four months (20 per cent if made within six months).

2. Steamers of the ORIENT-PACIFIC LINE, leaving London (Til-
bury Docks) every alternate Frid., sail via Plymouth, Gibraltar,
Marseilles, and (9 days) Naples to Pori Sa‘id and Isma’iiiya (fares
and return—voyage allowances as above).

. Steamers of the NORTH GERMAN LLOYD (‘Norddeutscher
Lloyd’), for Australia or China, leaving Southampton fortnightly,
sail via Genoa and Naples to Port Sa'id and I3ma‘il2ya (fares from
London, 20L 63., 1%. 63.;return-tickets 32L 113,, 19L 103.). Thence
to Cairo by rail (fares from London, 21L, Ht. 133. 6d.; return
tickets 34L, 20L 53.). Return—tickets are available for six months.

BAEDEKER‘S EEvnt- 5th Ed. 1

