1. The Ezbekiyeh. CAIRO. 4. Route. 39

gileh-hawkers, and others, elbowing their way. One of the noisiest
frequenters of the bazaars is the dallél, or auctioneer, who carries
on his head or shoulders the goods he is instructed to sell, and
runs up and down the lanes shouting ‘ltara‘g, hardy’, and adding the
amount of the last bid he has received. However great the con-
fusion may be, his practised ear instantly detects each new bid is-
suing from one of the dukkans, and he immediately announces the
1ew offer -— ‘bi'ashrin leirsh’, ‘bi'ashrin unusg’, and so on. The seller
of the goods always accompanies the dallal to give his consent to
the conclusion of the transaction. -— The prices of the various com-
modities depend on the demand, and also on the demeanour of the
purchaser. Orientals regard skill in cheating simply as a desirable
tccomplishment.

In walking through bazaars and other streets the traveller will
3e interested in observing how industriously and skilfully the
ARTIZANS work, with tools of the most primitive description. The
;urners (Kha'rrdt), for example, are equally adIoit with hand and
:‘oot. The following are the Arabic names for some of the commoner
landicraftsmen: Khaydt, tailor; $abbagh, dyer; Reffa, stocking
naker ,‘Alclcéd, silk-ribbon maker; Gezzdr, butcher; Far-Iran, baker;
gankari, plumber; Haddéd, smith; Sd'dtz', watch-maker.

European travellers who purpose making large purchases in the ba-
xaars, must arm themselves beforehand with the most inexhaustible pa-
.ience. Time has no value for an Oriental, and that fact must he taken
nto the calculation. Everything must be haggled for, sometimes in the
nest ohstinate fashion. When the customer knows the proper price and
.ﬁ‘ers it, the dealer will remark ‘lcalz‘l‘ (it is little), but will close the bar-
;ain. Sometimes the shopkeeper sends for coffee from a neighbouring coﬂ'ee-
louse in the course of the bargaining. If no satisfactory agreement can
re reached, the customer should calmly proceed on his way. Every step
1e takes will lower the demands of the obdurate dealer. It is advisahle
0 offer at ﬁrst rather a lower sum than the purchaser is willing to pay,
n order that the oﬁ'er may be raised. A common phrase in the cere-
nonious East is ‘lmdu baldsh‘ (take it for nothing), which, of course, is
never seriously meant. Foreigners, however, must he prepared to pay
nore than natives. Dragomans and commissionnaires usually have a private
inderstanding with the dealer, so that to make purchases in their company
s to add 10-20 per cent to the price,

1.- The Ezbekiyeh and the Isma'iliyeh Quarter.

The central point of the foreign quarter, between the old Arab-
an Cairo and the new town, built in the French style Within the
ast 40 years, is the —

*Ezbekiyeh Garden (Pl. 0, 3), or simply the Ezbekiyeh, which
3 named after the heroic Emir Ezbek, the general of Sultan
gait Bey (1468-96; p. 55), who brought the general and son-in-
aw of Bajesidl. as a captive to Cairo. A mosque was erected here
n honour of his victory; and, though the building no longer exists,
ts name still attaches to the site. The ﬁne gardens, which have sev-
aral entrances (adm. 1/2 pias.), were laid out in 1870 by M. Barillet,
ormerly chief gardener to the city of Paris. They cover an area of

 

