364 Route 39. ES—SEBﬁ'A.

44 M. Mahdralca, a commune on both banks. 011 a ﬂat—topped
hill on the W. bank, about 11/4 M. to the S. of the temple, stands
the Byzantine Fortress of Mehendi. This is surrounded by a thick
wall strengthened with towers, except on the side next the river,
where the steepness of the hill was considered protection enough.
From the main entrance, on the S. side, a street leads to a church
of some size and thence to an open space. The houses, built of
brick and stone, have vaulted roofs and are in good presenation.

50 M. Sayt‘zleh, on both banks. — 06 M. Med’ik. The mountains,
especially on the E., become higher. The river makes a wide bend
to the W.

The (68 M.) Wc’idi el—‘Arab, on both banks, is inhabited by an
Arabic-speaking population.

The village of Es-Sebu’a. consists of two parts, one on each bank
of the Nile. 'Beside that on the W. bank lies the TEMPLE or Es—
SEBﬁA or Seba'a (the lions), called by the Egyptians Per—Amon
(‘House of Ammon’). This temple was dedicated to Ammon and
Re-Harmachis by Ramses II., and is constructed on the same plan
as the temple at Gerf—Husén (p. 360). Ramses himself was also
worshipped here as a god. The present name of the place is appar-
ently derived from the avenue of Sphinxes leading to the temple.
Most of these are now covered with sand. Beside the two ﬁrst are
two colossal statues of Ramses II. Statues of the king also stood in
front of the PYLON, which is 32 ft. high and 42 ft. broad. The sadly
weatherworn reliefs on the front of the pylon-towers represent the
king smiting his foes, in presence of Re-Harmachis (N. tower) and
Ammon-Re (S. tower). The reliefs embellishing the jambs of the
central doorway show the king sacriﬁcing to various deities. The
large COURT, which we now enter, is 65 ft. square. To the right and
left are colonnades, each with 5 square pillars, against which stand
colossal ﬁgures of the king. The reliefs on the walls, representing
the king in the usual scenes of intercourse with the gods, are poorly
executed and offer no Special interest.

The following GREAT HALL begins the rock-hewn portion of the temple.
The ceiling of this is supported by 12 square pillars, of which six are ad-
joined by colossal ﬁgures of Ramses. The following TRANSVERSE Boon is
adjoined by two side-chambers and three other chambers in the back«wall.
On the walls of the ﬁrst three we see Ramses 1L wershipping and presenting
offerings to various deities, among whom the deiﬁed king himself appears.
The central chamber behind is here, as at Gerfvljusén, the SANCTUARY.
On the right wall the king offers ﬂowers before the sacred boat of Har«
machis, which is decorated with hawks’ heads. On the left wall he offers
incense and libation before the boat of Ammon, which is adorned with
rams’ heads. On the rear-wall appears the boat of the sun, in which the
ram-headed sun-god Ré-Harmachis sits beneath a canopy, worshipped by
the king (on the left) and three apes (on the right). Beneath is a recess,
in which the outlines of statues of three gods of the temple (Ammon,
Ramses IL, and RE-Harmachis) may still be made out, although a ﬁgure
of St. Peter, with a. halo and a large key, has been painted over that in

the centre. The king appears on the right and left of the recess, with
ﬂowers. '

