76 Route 5. SHUBRA. Environs

the equipages of fashionable Cairenes on Frid. afternoons from
about 5 pm. In the central space are a Race Course (E) and Golf,
Polo, Cricket, and Tennis Grounds (W.).

A Foo/path leads directly from the end of the bridge amOng palm-trees
by the side of the Nile, affording views of the trafﬁc on the river and
on the Bﬁlak bank. Refreshments (milk, etc.) may be obtained at the
Café Bellevue, etc.

The principal building on the island is the former viceregal
chateau, which was purchased in 1893, along with the adjacent
buildings and the park, by a limited company and has been opened
as the Ghezz‘reh Palace Hotel (see p. 24). The chateau was erected
by Franz Pasha (p. 61), a German architect, in 1863-68, and taste-
fully ornamented with Moorish stucco-work by 0. von Diebitsch.
Few remains of its former magniﬁcence in the interior are now left.

Below Bﬁlﬁk and the island the Nile is spanned by the Railway
Bridge mentioned at pp. 23, 131, which can also be used by foot-
passengers and carriages. The station 011 the left bank is known
as Embdbeh. This was the scene of the ‘Battle of the Pyramids’,
in which the French under Bonaparte defeated the Mamelukes (July
21st, 1798).

4. Shubra and the ‘Abbésiyeh.

The inspection of the viceregal gardens at Shubra requires a Permit,
to be obtained at the ‘dai'ra‘ or ofﬁce, of Prince Husen Pasha, at the Kasr
‘Ali (p. 41). — Electric tramway to the ‘Abbdsiyeh, see p. 27.

The Shc‘zri’a Shubra and the broad SHUBRA AVENUE, shaded by
beautiful sycamore and lebbek trees, beyond the Lémi‘tn Bridge and
the Railway Stations (P1. B, A, 1; p. 24), lead straight N. to the
(21/2 M.) village and palace of Shubra, 011 the Nile. To the right, a
little back from the road, is the beautiful Villa Ciccolanz‘. 011 the
left is the former viceregal palace Kasr en-Nuzha, now occupied by
the Ecole Tewﬁk. Farther to the right is the Pensionnat du Bon
Pasteur (p. 30).

At the end of the avenue, and beyond the ﬁrst houses of Shubra,
we cross a canal by a drawbridge, turn to the left towards the
Nile, and follow the embankment to an archway. Passing through
this, we enter a tree-planted space, and reach the entrance of the ~—

VICEREGAL GARDENS or SHUBRA, laid out by Mohammed'Ali and
his son Halim Pasha, but now utterly neglected. After presenting
our ticket of admission (see above), we ﬁrst proceed to the kiosque
(fee 5 pias.), which presents no interest except as an example of
rich and effective garden-architecture. The garden, nearly nine acres
in area, was somewhat incongruously re-modelled by M. Barillet
(p. 39) in the old French style, which is ill—adapted for the Orien-
tal vegetation, but it also contains some beautiful r0se and geranium
beds. Among the tropical plants we remark the beautiful Indian
lemon-shrub and a huge lebbek-tree (p. lviii). An artiﬁcial hill in

