106

7. Outer Environs of Cairo to the North and East.

As the obelisk at Heliopolis is the only one now standing in Lower
Egypt on its original site, since the removal of Cleopatra‘s Needle (p. 18),
it ought to be visited by travellers who do not intend to ascend the Nile.
— The view from the Molyalyam Hills ranks with Karnak and Philae among
the most beautiful sights in Egypt; and only very blasé travellers will be
content merely with the views from the Windmill Hill (p. 67) and the
Citadel (p. 51). — The Petriﬁed Forest is, of course, especially interesting
to geologists; but even‘ ordinary travellers will ﬁnd their account in an
expedition to it, especially if they have not previously seen the desert. —
The Barrage du Nil is the largest erection of the kind in the world and
is interesting as such not only to engineers. It will, however, be sur-
passed in size by the new dam at Assuan (p. 335).

1. Heliopolis.

This expedition is best made by Carriage (p. 27-, drive to the obelisk
11/2 hr.), though it may also be accomplished by Railway, starting from
the small Matariyeh Station (Pl. B, 1; p. 24). Trains run hourly.

The HIGH ROAD leads through the ’Abbc‘z‘s’iyeh (p. 77) and past
Kubbeh and the Khedivz‘al Palace (Palais Taufik; p. 77). The plain
between Kubbeh and Matariyeh has been the scene of two important
battles. In 1517 the Battle of Heliopolis made Selim and the Turks
masters of Egypt; and on 20th March, 1800, General Kleber with
10,000 French troops succeeded in defeating 60,000 Orientals, and
in consequence of this victory regained possession of Cairo, although
for a short time only. At a little distance to the right and, farther
on, also to the left, numerous villas have been built within the last
few years. The drive to Matariyeh takes about 11/2 hr.

The RAILWAY passes the following stations: 13/4 M. Demirddsh
(Demerdache), station for the 'Abbdsiyeh (p. 77); 21/2 M. Manshz'et-
el-Sadr; 3 M. Kubri Kubbeh (bridge); 31/2 M. Hammdmc‘zt Kubbeh
(Koubbeh-les-bains); 41/4 M. Serdz’ Kabbeh (Palais de Koubbeh;
viceregal palace, p. 77) ; 5 M. Ezbet ez— Zeimn, with numerous
villas. — 6 M. Matariyeh, station for Heliopolis. (The railway goes
on to El-Merg, p. 108.)

Near the insigniﬁcant village of Matariyeh are the Tree and Well
of the Virgin and the Obelisk ofHeliopolis. The Virgin’s Tree (in a
garden to the right of the road) is a sycamore with a decayed and
riven trunk, covered with names and inscriptions, but the branches
are still tolerably ﬂourishing. According to the legend, the Virgin
and Child once rested under the shade of this tree during the Flight
into Egypt; and there is another tradition to the effect that the
persecuted Mary concealed herself with the Child in a hollow of
the trunk, and that a spider so completely covered the opening
with its web as to screen her effectually from observation. The
present tree, the predecessor of which died in 1665 , was not
planted till after 1672; it is now protected by a railing. The garden
is watered by means of a double sakiyeh, which is supplied from a.
shallow reservoir fed by springs. This water is good for drinking,

