Beduins. THE MODERN EGYPTIAN“. xl,iii

wrapped in a kind of blanket (meldya). All these ‘Ethiopians' are
remarkable for their ﬁne and almost Caucasian cast of features, their
very dark, bronze-coloured complexion, and their luxuriant growth
of hair, shading their heads like a cloud, or hanging down in num-
berless plaits over their necks and shoulders. Their ﬁgures are
beautifully symmetrical, and more or less slender in accordance
with their means of subsistence, and their limbs are gracefully and
delicately formed. In other respects they resemble all the other
children of the desert, as in the purity of their complexion, the
peculiar thinness of their necks, and the premature wrinkling of
the skin of their faces. Compared with their bold and quarrelsome
neighbours the Bisharin (the ancient ‘Ichthyophagi’), the rAbabdeh7
who correspond to the ‘Troglodytes’ of the Greeks, are exceedingly
gentle and inoffensive.

Besides the Bega, there are numerous Beduins who inhabit the
steppes and deserts belonging to the region of the Nile, but beyond
the limits of Egypt, and range as far as the conﬁnes of the heathen
negro-races on the left bank of the Nile, nearly to 9° N. latitude;
but with these we have not at present to deal. As regards the
Beduins proper of the N., their common home, the desert, seems
to have exerted a unifying effect upon races that were originally
different, and the peculiar characteristics of each have gradually
disappeared before the uniform environment of all.

There are three important Beduin tribes in the peninsula of
Mount Sinai: the Terdbiyin; the Tihdya, who occupy the heart of
the peninsula, between Suez and ‘Akaba; and the Sawdrkeh or El-
‘Arayish, to the north of the latter. In Upper Egypt, besides the
“Ababdeh, the only Beduins who occupy the eastern bank of the
Nile are the Bem' Wasel and the Atwéni, or Hawdddt, who, however,
have now settled on both banks of the Theban Nile valley and are
gradually blending with the fellahin, and the Mé'azeh, who dwell
in groups among the limestone mountains between Suez and Keneh,
where there are good pastures at places. Most of the Arabian Beduins,
on the other hand, who belong to Egypt, conﬁne themselves to the
western bank of the Nile. They occupy the whole of this side of the
river from the Fayﬁm as far as Abydos near Girgeh, and it is mainly
with their aid that communication is maintained with the western
oases, peopled by a totally different race (comp. pp. xlv, lei), who
till the ground and possess no camels, being probably allied to the
Berbers of Northern Africa (one of the numerous Libyan tribes
mentioned in ancient inscriptions).

The Beduins of the North have inherited with comparative purity
the ﬁery blood of the desert-tribes, who achieved such marvellous
exploits under the banner of the prophet, but the traveller will
rarely come in contact with them unless he undertakes ajourney
across the desert. The Beduins who assist travellers in the ascent
of the pyramids belong to the Nagama tribe. Genuine Beduins are

