10. Colossi ofMemnon. THEBES (W. BANK). 24.Roule. 305

In the N.E. angle of the great girdle-wall, near the small temple, lies
the Sacred Lake, a basin ahout 60ft. square, with two ﬂights of steps. —-—
Ahout 45 yds. to the N.W. of it is a Nilometer. A doorway, bearing the
name of Nektanebos, admits to a chamber beyond which is a corridor,
whence the slaircase of the Nilometer descends to a depth of 65 ft.

About 200 paces to the S. of the pavilion of Ramses III. (p. 297) is
a small unﬁnished Ptolemaic Temple, now known as Ka§r el-“Agaz, erected
by Euergetes II. to the god Thout. lt consists of a. wide vestibule and three
rooms, one behind another. On the left entrance-wall of the second room
we see the king sacriﬁcing to Thout, Imhotep, and the deiﬁed sage Amen<
hotep; the lower row of reliefs alone is ﬁnished, the others are merely
sketched out. —— Still farther to the S. stood a small Temple of the Roman
Period, dedicated to Isis. It was erected by Hadrian and Antoninus Pius,
while the ruined pylon bears the names of Vespasian, Domitian, and 0tho,
the last of exceedingly rare occurrence owing to the emperor‘s short reign
(69 A.D.). The temple consists of a cella surrounded by apartments. A
staircase leads to the roof from a room to the extreme left of the entrance.

Between these two small temples traces of a town may be made out.
These include remains of a Palace of Amenophis 111., which in Structure
and embellishments resembled that of Amenophis IV. at Tell el-‘Amarna
(p. 204). The site, completely ruined and plundered, is known as Mallyma.

10. The Colossi of Memnon.

The *Colossi of Memnon, about 1/2 M. to the N.E. of Me-
dinet Habu and about the same distance 'to the S.W. of the Rames-
seum, are visible from a great distance on all sides. These two
colossal statues have suffered severely from the hand of time and
have lost their artistic value, but they still exert all their old
attraction in virtue of the innumerable associations that cling to
them. They are surpassed in size and in beauty of material only
by the shattered colossus in the Ramesseum. The two immense
ﬁgures and the cubical thrones on which they are seated are carved
out of a pebbly and quartzose sandstone-conglomerate, of a yel-
lowish—brown colour and very difﬁcult to work. Both represent
Amenophis III. and they originally stood in front of a temple erected
by that monarch, of which only the scantiest relics are now left. In
the Roman imperial epoch they were taken for statues of Memnon,
son of E05 and Tithonus, who slew Antilochus, the brave son of
Nestor, during the Trojan war, for which he was himself slain by
Achilles.

The S. Colossus is in better preservation than the N. one, but
there is little difference between them in point of size. The dimen-
sions of the former, in which the original form is more easily seen,
are as follows: height of the ﬁgure, 52 ft., height of the pedestal on
which the feet rest, 13 ft., height of the entire monument, 65 ft.
But when the ﬁgure was adorned with the long-since vanished
.crown, the original height may have reached 69 ft. The legs from
the sole to the knee measure 191/2 ft., and each foot is 101/2 ft.
long. The breadth of the shoulders is 193/4 ft.; the middle ﬁnger
on one hand is 41/2 ft. long; and the arm from the tip of the
ﬁnger to the elbow measures 151/2 ft.

Buchanan‘s Egypt. 5th Ed. 20

