68 Route 5. TOMBS OF THE MAMELUKES. Environs

continuation of the Muski (p. 41), renders it very easy of access.
A ﬁne effect, especially by evening-light, is produced by the domes
and the peculiar. colouring of the valley and the opposite heights
of the Molgattam. To the W. are the city, the plain of the Nile, and
the Pyramids, to the N. lies the straggling suburb of “Abbasiyeh
(p. 77); and at our feet are the Tombs of the Khalifs (p. 64), the
most conspicuous of which are the tomb-mosque of Kai‘t Bey (p. 66;
to the left)7 with its dome and minaret, and the two domes and
two minarets of Sultan Barkﬁlg (p. 65).

The Tombs of the Mamelukes, to the S. of the Citadel, in-
cluding monuments of various periods, are most conveniently visited
via the Bdb el-Kardfeh (Pl. E, 7), whence a good carriage-road leads
through the midst of the tombs to the Hosh el—Bésha (see below).
The tombs approach close to the city and extend as far as to the
slopes of the Mokattam. The older tombs are in much poorer
preservation than the Tombs of the Khalifs, owing to their con-
version into modern burial-places. Some are now represented only
by their minarets. A few are of architectural and artistic interest;
but historical data as to the names of their builders are entirely
wanting, for the extant inscriptions upon them are almost exclu-
sively verses of the Koran.

To the S. the imposing dome of the tomb of Imam Shafe'i
(ca. 1210), of a bluish-grey colour, is conspicuous. Beside it is an
extensive modern necropolis, chieﬂy of family-tombs. The dome
itself and the Byzantine carvings and panelling on the lower part
Of the interior walls are interesting.

Near it is the H6511 el-Basha, or family burial mosque, built
by Mohammed ‘Ali. The monuments (including those of Ibrahim
and ‘Abbas 1.; p. o) are in white marble, and were executed by
Greek and Armenian sculptors. The inscriptions and ornamenta-
tion are richly gilded and painted.

2. The Island of Roda and Old Cairo.

Electric Tramway from the Place ‘Atabet el-Khndra near the Ezbekiyeh,
see p. 27. A small Steamboat (fares 10, 5 pi.) plies every 20-40 min. between
01d Cairo and Gizeh (p. 77), so that visitors may go on from the former
to visit the Museum or the Pyramids of Gizeh. Or with a visit to Old
("air-0 may be combined that to the Tombs of the Mamelukes, returning
via the Bdb el-Km'dfeh (see above) and the Place Mehémet-Ali (ﬁne view
from below of the mosque of Mohammed ‘Ali). — Those who wish to visit
only the {fats-r esh-Shmn’a (p. 71) may take the Helwan Railway as far as
the station of St. Georges (p. 154), which lies close by.

Tickets of admission to the mosque of ‘Amr, see p. 30.

Traversing the quarter of Isma‘iliyeh (p. 40) via the Shari‘a Masr
el—‘Atika, we reach the hospital of Kasr el-"Ain (Pl. A, 6), with
the Mosque Kagr el-‘Am (p. 41; howling dervishes).

The street crosses the Fum el- Khalig, or inﬂux of the city canal
el-Khallg (now ﬁlled up), once supplied from the small arm of thc

