of Horus. EDFU. 27. Route. 319

constructed in the solid masonry and lighted, like the staircases, by
means of small and rather deep window-openings (see p. 316). The
staircases in the two towers are connected with each other by a pas~
sage running above the central portal; and in each tower there is a
door affording access to the roof of the colonnade in the court. On
the roof of the W. colonnade are the workmen’s drawings for the
concave cornice of the pylon. The *View from the t0p is unusually
attractive, commanding not only the most imposing survey of the
temple-buildings, but also ranging over the plain through which
the Nile ﬂows, with its verdant crops and its villages fringed with
palms and mimosas, framed by the desert-mountains in the distance.

The half-buried Birth House, lying to the left of the entrance to
the great temple of Horus, is less worthy of a visit. It was built by
Ptolemy IX. Euergetes 11., while the interior decorations date from
Soter II. It was surrounded by a gallery, with pillars bearing ﬁgures
of Bes (p. cxxvii).

In the interior is a room with one column. On the right wall: Hathor
of Dendera nurses Horus, while seven other Haihors play musical instru-
men1s. Behind the goddess is her youthful son Ehe-wér, with a sistrum.

On the left wall: Isis-Hathor in a marsh and Khuum with the youthful
Hours.

28. From Edfu to Assuan by the Nile.
Comp. the Map, 11. 224.

68 M. STEAMBOAT to Gebel Silsileh in 4 hrs; thence to K6111 Onibo in
3 hrs; and thence to Assuan in 6 hrs.

0n the E. bank, about 5M. above Edfu, is the village of Redésiyeh
(Rodsieh), after Which a Temple of Sethos 1., lying 37 M. to the E.,
has been named; see p. 347. —Farther along the E. bank (12 M. from
Edfu), on the mountain-slopes approaching close to the river near
.the hill es—Serég, are the picturesque remains of a late-Byzantine
fortiﬁed town (perhaps the ancient Thmuz's), with a church or con-
vent. In the neighbourhood are ancient quarries with inscriptions
(one of Thutmosis 111.). The nummulite limestone of the hills here
gives place to sandstone (comp. p. liii), which has furnished the
material for most of the gigantic buildings of Upper Egypt.

18 M. (E. bank) Selwah (Silica,- railway—station, p. 308).

Near the village of el-Ijiésh (cl-Hock), beside the Gebel Abu Shega,
on the W. bank, a number of quarries may be observed from the
steamer. From masons’ marks and Greek inscriptions in these we
learn that sandstone blocks were quarried here in the 11th year of
Antoninus (149 A.D.) for a temple of Apollo (Le. Horus, perhaps at
Edfu .

0)n the W. bank, 1/4 hr. above el-Hosh and about 3/4 hr. below
Silsileh, is a gorge known as Shatt er-Regal (‘Shore of the Men’,
or es-sab’a regal, ‘the seven men’), which was perhaps the starting
point for an ancient caravan-route through the desert. 0n the left
side of a cliﬂ" here, a few paces from the river-bank. is a most

