RELIGION. uxxvir

Is1s (Figs. 9 & 10), Wife of Osiris and mother of Horus (Harsiésis).
She was a goddess of Philae. She was highly revered at a late
period.

KA, the guardian—spirit of mortals (p. oxxv).

KEB or GEB, the earth—god, husband of Newt (see below).

KERR-SNEWF, one of the guardian—deities of the dead. See Amset.

KHBPRE, the scarabaus (dung-beetle), regarded as a form of the
sun—god.

KHNUM (Fig. 4) was the god of Elephantiue and the Cataract dis-
tricts, and of Shashotep, Esneh, etc. His sacred animal was
the goat.

KHoNS, the moon-god of Thebes, was the son of Ammon and Mut,
with whom he forms the Theban Triad. Sacred animal, the
Sparrow—hawk.

MAAT (Fig. 11), goddess of integrity or truth. Her symbol is an
ostrich—feather.

MIN (Fig. 12), a god of harvest, was the guardian-spirit of Akhminr
and Koptos, and also the god of travellers in the desert. He is
ithyphallically represented.

MONT, the god of Thebes and Hermonthis, was regarded from an
early period as the chief god of Upper Egypt. Under the New
Empire he was god of war and had a sparrow-hawk’s head. The
hull Bukhis was sacred to him.

MUT, the wife of Ammon 0f Thebes and mother of Khons (see
above). Her sacred animal was the vulture.

NBFERTEM, son of Ptah of Memphis.

NEITH, goddess of Sa'is, Esneh (pp. 22, 309), etc.

NEKHBET, goddess of El-Kab (p. 311) and guardian-deity of Upper
Egypt. As she presided over childbirth the Greeks identiﬁed
her with Eileithyia. Sacred animal, the vulture.

NEPHTHYS (Fig. 13), originally a goddess of the dead. Sister ofOsiris.

NEWT, a goddess of the sky and wife of Keb.

ONNOPHRIS, see Wen—nofré.

OPET, a popular goddess of childbirth. In Thebes, Where she was
revered as the mother ofOsiris, she was represented as a pregnant
hippopotamus. See also To'éris.

OSIRIS (Fig. 14), originally the god of Busiris, received universal
homage as god of the dead. His tomb was at Abydos. For his

legend, see p. cxx. His symbol was a post i (Tet).

PAKHET (or Pasht), the goddess of Speos Artemidos (p. 197), to
whom the cat was sacred.

PTAH (Fig. 15), the god of Memphis, was regarded as the guardian
of artists. .

PTAH-TETENEN, a special form of Ptah.

RE, the sun—god. He was identiﬁed at an early period with Har—
machis of Heliopolis, and named Ré-Harmachis. During the

