2. The Muski. CAIRO. 4. Route. 41

Palace of Count Zogheb (Shari'a Kasr en-Nil), built in the Arab
style by Herz-Bey. —— In the long street named SHARI‘A MAsR EL-
'A'rir{A (Pl. A, 4), at the point of intersection with the Shari'a Kasr
en-Nil, is a Monument to Sulé‘ma‘n Pasha. Farther on lie the Palace
of Mohammed 'Ali Pasha, brother of the Khedive, and, on the oppo-
site side, the viceregal Isma‘iliyeh Palace, and a handsome new
quarter erected on the site of the Palace Kasr ed—Dubara, includ-
ing the British Consulate General (Pl. A, 5). On the E. side of the
street are the Ministries of Pubtic Works and of War. In the N.W.
angle of the grounds is the Instilut Egyptien; in the S.W. angle, the
Sociéte‘ Ge‘ographigue (p. 30); and in the N.E. angle, the Viceregat
Chemical Laboratory. On the E. side of the palace is the Ofﬁce of
Hygiene (Services Sanitaires), in which the medicines required for
all the hospitals in the country are prepared at the laboratory, and the
yield of the 12saltpetre manufactories of Egypt tested. —— Farther on,
to the right, on the Nile, is the Palace ofIbrthm Pasha (Pl. A, 6), with
a large garden. Then come the straggling premises of the Kasr el-‘Ali
[PL A, 6), at present occupied by Prince Husén Pasha, and the large
Hospital ofKasr tl—“Ain (Pl. A, 7), with the Mosque of Kasr el—“Ain,
in which the Howling Dervishes (p. lxvii) hold their Zikr. The
last-mentioned religious performances, which attract numerous tour-
ists (chair 2 pias.), take place on Frid. at 1.30 pm. — Thence to
the Fum et-Khalig and to Old Cairo, see p. 68.

To the N. of the Shari'a Bﬁléh is the newest and still unﬁnished
quarter of Cairo, named Tewf’z‘lc’z‘yeh (Pl. A, B, 2, 3) in honour of
the late Khedive Tewfil_<.

It need hardly be added that the traveller in search of Oriental
scenes will not care to devote much time to these modern quarters,
but will hasten to make acquaintance with the Arabian parts of
the city.

2. The Muski and its Side Streets.

A visit to the chief Bazaars (comp. p. 38), to which this section is
devoted, is so full of novelty and interest, that the traveller will scarcely
have time to combine with the ﬁrst visit the inspection of the Mosques
passed on the way. —— Mounted on donkeys (p. 27), both ladies and gentle-
men may plunge fearlessly into the thickest of the crowd; while gentlemen,
even on foot and alone, aided by the following description and the plan
of the town (p. 24), will ﬁnd their way without any other assistance.

The chief thoroughfare of Cairo is the *Muski (P1. 0, D, 3),
which begins at the small square of rAtabet el-Khadra (p. 40), and,
with its continuations the Sikkeh el-Gedideh (see p. 42) and the
Shéri'a esh-Sharawani (Pl. E, F, 3), traverses the entire breadth
of the old town (nearly 1M.) This street has now to a great extent
lost its external Oriental characteristics. The numerous tobacco
and cigar stores and emporiums of clothing present quite aEuropean
exterior; but the stalls of the fez-dealers still remind us that we
are in the E. (The price of a fez or tarbﬁsh varies from 2 fr. to 5 fr.,
according to the material with which it is lined.) But the Oriental

