cviii HIE ROGLYJ’H 105.
“DETERMINATIVES

E.g. ﬁ man; $9 woman; (L: tree; :1 house, (:3 town

at. abstract idea. To this class belong also the sign of the plural
|

m < | > and the oval ring C )1 (the so—called ‘cartouche ), placed
|

round the names of kings.

These various classes of symbols, which were used in accord-
ance with certain ﬁxed rules of orthography, were employed in

writing Egyptian words; e.g. %ﬂ mn, ‘to remain’ (syllabic
symbol ﬁﬂ‘j mn, sound MMM n, determinative for an abstract
idea i1); HQ) 5}), ‘time’ (—u— s, E] 1), © word—symbol). We

cannot, of course, pronounce these words that are written without
vowels; but in many instances, by the aid of Coptic (p. Civ) or of
Greek transliterations (especially in the case of proper names), we
learn what was the pronunciation at later periods, and are thus
able to supply vowels to the consonantal skeletons. We know, e.g.,
that the Coptic for ‘to remain7 is mun, and we therefore read the
above hieroglyphic as mun; in the same way from the Coptic sop
for ‘time’ we read the hieroglyphic also as sop. When, however,
no such guide is obtainable it is the custom of Egyptologists to

render the words articulate by inserting an ‘e’; thus W k’,
‘bull’, is read ke’.

Hieroglyphics are usually written from right to left, sometimes
in perpendicular rows, sometimes in horizontal rows; occasionally,
but quite exceptionally and usually for decorative purposes, they
are written from left to right. For the sake of convenience modern
reproductions of hieroglyphics are written or printed from left to
right. It was almost a matter of course that both the shapes of the
hieroglyphics and the orthography of the words should vary very
greatly in the course of the thousands of years during which the
system was used; and with a little trouble the traveller will soon
learn to distinguish the simple and bold characters of the Early'
Empire from the ornate symbols of the 18th Dyn. («3.9. in the temple
at Abydos) and from the small crowded hieroglyphics of the Ptole-
maic period.

When the picture symbols instead of being carved by the chisel
were written with a reed-pen upon papyrus, stucco, or wooden
tablets, they generally assumed a simpler and more rounded form.
In this way arose a system of Literary Hieroglyphic, which we meet
with mainly in carefully-executed religious manuscripts.

For the purposes of ordinary writings this system was still
farther simplified and abbreviated and for the sake of speed the
separate characters were often united, thus forming a Writing or

