DOCTRINES OF EL-ISLAM. mu

Although POLYGAMY is sanctioned, every Muslim being permit-
ted to have four wives at a time, yet among the bulk of the popu-
lation monogamy is far more frequent, owing to the difﬁculty of
providing for several wives and families at once. The wives, more-
over, are very apt to quarrel, to the utter destruction of domestic
peace, unless the husband can afford to assign them separate houses.
Few men remain unmarried. The treatment of women as mere chat-
tels, which is of very remote Oriental origin, constitutes the greatest
defect of the system of El—Islam, although the position of the female
sex among the Oriental Christians and Jews is little better than
among the Muslims. It is probably owing to this low estimate of
women that the Muslims generally dislike to see them praying or
occupying themselves with religion. The practice of wearing veils
dates from very remote times (Genesis xxiv, 65; Isaiah iii, 23), though
it is doubtful whether it was customary among the ancient Egyptians,
as veiled women never appear upon the monuments. A Muslim is
not permitted to see any women unveiled except his wife and slaves
and his blood-relations; when there are lady visitors in the harem,
he must announce his approach before entering, so as to afford them
an opportunity of retiring. An Oriental lady would, indeed, regard
it as an affront to be permitted to mingle in society with the same
freedom as European ladies. Even in the Christian churches (ex-
cept the Protestant) the place for women is often separated from
the men’s seats by a railing. The peasant and Beduin women, on
the other hand, are often seen unveiled. The ease with which El-
Islam permits divorce is due to Mohammed’s personal proclivities.
A single word from the husband sufﬁces to banish the wife from his
house, but she retains the marriage-portion which she has received
from her husband. The children are brought up‘in great subjection
to their parents, often showing more fear than love for them.

The repetition of PRAYERS (sala) ﬁve times daily is one of
the chief duties of faithful Muslims. The hours of prayer (addn)
are proclaimed by the mueddins (or muezzins) from the minarets of
the mosques: (1) Maghrib, a little after sunset; (2) 'Isheh, night-
fall, about 11/:;, hour after sunset; (3) Subh, daybreak; (4) Duhr,
midday; (5) ‘Asr, afternoon, about 3 hours after midday. These
periods of prayer also serve to mark the divisions of the day. The
day is also divided into two periods of 12 hours each, beginning
from sunset, so that where clocks and watches are used they require
to be set daily. Most people however content themselves with the
sonorous call of the mueddin: Alldhu akbar (three times); ashhadu
anmz ld ildha ill’ Allah; ashhadu anna Muhammedar rasﬁlu’lldh
(twice); [zeiya ‘ala- ssaldh (twice); heiya 'ala’l -faldlz (twice),
Alldhu akbar (twice), ld ildha ill’alldh; Le. ‘Allah is great; I
testify that there is no G0d but Allah, and Mohammed is the pro-
phet of Allah; come to prayer; come to worship; Allah is great;
there is no God but Allah’. This call to prayer sometimes also
a a

