to Suez. BITTER LAKES. 14. Route. 171

A pleasant walk may be taken along the lebbek-avenue, on the
Quai Méhémet-Ali, as far as the chateau of the Khedive and the
water-works. — In a public park in the Avenue Victoria (opposite
the former Villa Lesseps) several monuments found at Pithom
(p. 163) are preserved.

Group of Ramses II. seated between the gods Re and Atum: memorial
stone of Ramses IL, with sculptures and inscriptions; recumbent lion with
human head, dedicated by Ramses II. to Atum; naos with the ﬁgure of a
similar lion (sphinx), dedicated by Ramses II. in the temple of Pithom.

The best way of spending a few leisure hours here is to visit the
Khedim'al Chalet, at the inﬂux of the canal into Lake Timsah (near
the Canal Co.’s Hospital) and the hill of El-Gz's'r (p. 170-, 1-9. hrs.;
donkey 1 fr.).

CANAL JOURNEY TO SUEZ. After quitting Lake Timsah we pass
the foot of the Gebel Maryam, which an Arabian legend points out
as the place where Miriam, when smitten with leprosy for her dis-
approval of the marriage of Moses with an Ethiopian woman, spent
seven days, beyond the precincts of the camp of the Israelites
(Numbers, xii). —— At the 85th kilométre is situated Tusfm, which
is easily recognised by the whitewashed dome of the tomb of a shékh.
Excavations near Tusun have led to the discovery of many interest-
ing fossil'remains of large animals belonging to the meiocene ter-
tiary formation, and pieces of fossil wood have also been found here
(comp. p. 110). — A little farther on (near the 90th kilométre) is
the cutting which conducts the Canal through the rocky barrier of
the Serapeum (comp. p. 165).

The Canal now enters the Large Basin. of the Bitter Lakes.
Brugsch identiﬁes the Bitter Lakes with the Marah of the Bible
(Exod. xv. 23). At each end of the large basin rises an iron light-
house, 65 ft. in height. The water is of a bluish-green colour. The
banks are ﬂat and sandy, but a little to the left rises the not un-
picturesque range of the Gebel Gene/felt (p. 164). The bed of the
Little Bitter Lake, which we next traverse, consists entirely of shell-
formations.

Near Shalaf et- Terabeh (a station on the right, near the 139th
kilometre; see p. 164) no less than 40,000 cubic yds. of limestone,
coloured red and brown with iron, had to be removed in the course
of the excavation of the Canal. This stone contained teeth and
vertebra of sharks, bivalve shells, and remains of Bryozoa. In the
layer of sand above the limestone were found crocodiles’ teeth and
the remains of hippopotami and other large quadrupeds. The
monument of Darius near Shalﬁf is mentioned at p. 165.

We ﬁnally reach the Gulf of Suez, which is here so shallow that.
but for the Canal, it might be crossed on foot at low tide. It con-
tains several islands. 0n the W. bank rise the workshop and
magazines of the Canal Company. Passengers are landed in steam-
launches.

Suez (Port Ibrahim,- 160 kilometres), see p. 173.

