oflsts. PHILAE. 99. Route. 341

The SECOND PYLON is smaller (105 ft. broad, 40 ft. high) and
less well-preserved than the ﬁrst pylon. The Portal between the
towers, approached by a shallow ﬂight of steps, was built by Euer-
getes II. and embellished with reliefs Of the usual type.

. The large.relief on the Right Tower represents the Pharaoh Neos
Dionysus placmg the slaughtered sacrificial animals before Horus and
Hathor. Above are two small reliefs: to the right, Neos Dionysos presenting
a wreath to Horus and Nephthys; to the left, Neos Dionysus olfering in-
cense and pouring water upon an altar, in presence of OsiriS, lsis, and
Horus. The granite of the site at the foot of the tower has been smoothed
to form a stele, with a six-lined inscription and reliefs relating to a lavish
grant of lands made to the temple of Isis by Philometor in the 24th year
of his reign (157 B.C.). In front of it are the foundations of a small
Chapel (H. m). — On the Left Tower are similar scenes (ﬁgures deliberately
defaced). On both towers are grooves for the flag—staffs.

An inner staircase ascends to the W. pylon (comp. the Plan), whence
we proceed across the central portal to the E. pylon. The ascent of the
ﬁrst pylon (p. 339) is, however, preferable in every respect.

Within the doorway, at the top, to the light, are some much
faded early-Christian pictures.

The TEMPLE or Isrs PROPER, entered by this portal, consisted
of an open Court (here very small), a Hypostyle Hall or Pronaos,
several Vestibules, and a Sanctuary, with smaller chambers adjoin-
ing. The walls are covered both outside and inside with reliefs of
Ptolemies (Philadelphus, Euergetes 11., etc.) and Roman emperors
(Augustus, Tiberius, Antoninus) performing the customary cere-
monies in the guise of Pharaohs ; but the traveller will ﬁnd detailed
descriptions Of similar scenes in our accounts of the temples of
Dendera (p. 227) and Edfu (p. 315).

The OPEN COURT had a small covered hall on each side, tho
roof of which rested on a single column. The uncovered portion could
be shaded from the sun by means of a velarium; the holes for the
cords are still visible in the upper part of the concave cornice turned
towards the second pylon.

The HYPOSTYLE HALL, with eight columns, was originally sep-
arated from the preceding court by screen-walls between the ﬁrst
row of columns. The colouring Of this hall, Which has been pre-
served on the ceiling and the columns, must have been very bril-
liant. The ﬂoral capitals of the columns both in the court and this
hall are the most instructive of all the specimens that have come
down to us of the manner in which the Egyptians of the later period
coloured their cOlumns. Comparatively little regard was paid to the
natural colours; 6.9. light green palm-twigs receive blue ribs, etc.

Christian services Were celebrated in the court and hall, of whlch
the numerous Coptic crosses chiselled in the walls are memorials. A
Greek inscription in the doorway to Room B, on the right, records that
‘this good work‘ took place under Bishop Theodorus. This was In the
reign of Justinian.

. The small VESTIBULES (Pl. 1), E, F) preceding the Sanctuary
are adjoined by chambers lying in darkness. The SANCTUARY, wh1ch
has two tiny windows, still contains a pedestal placed here by Euer-

