262 Route 24. THEBES (w. BANK). 3. Temple ofKuma.

Of this part are Of the time Of Ramses II., and far inferior to those
Of the central building and left-hand portion Of the sanctuary.

We re-enter the colonnade through Door c, and proceed through
Door (1 to visit the LEFT DIvrerN Of the temple. In the small CHAPEL
or RAMSES I. (with two papyrus-bud columns), are high reliefs,
which were probably ‘nsnrped’ by Ramses II. : to the right the king
kneeling before Ammon, Khons, and the deiﬁed Sethos, while
behind him is Mnt. — Adjoining are three CHAMBERS (P1. A, B, C).
0n the side-walls of the central chamber (P1. A) Sethos I. Oﬁers
incense to the boat of A1n1non. 0n the rear-wall is a door—shaped
stele to Ramses II. The two other rooms (P1. B and C') were built
by Ramses II. and contain rather rnde reliefs (the king before the
gods). — A side-door (P1. l) leads from the Chapel Of Ramses I. to
a narrow Corridor, the left wall of which is now represented by a
single course Of masonry. Thence we enter (to the right) ROOM D,
with sunk reliefs dating from Ramses 11., showing that king and his
father Sethos sacriﬁcing before various deities. — A small Door
(P1. m) at the end of the corridor brings us orne more into the
colonnade.

A little to the N. Of the temple is a spring with a water-wheel
(Sdlciyeh) and some sunt trees, used as a watering-place for cattle.
Farther to the N., among the spurs Of the Libyan mountains, is the
Necropolis Of Drah Abu’l Negga.

Drah Abu’l Negga is one of the oldest cemeteries of Thebes, and the
treasures discovered here by Mariette’s excavations were of extraordinary
value. Tombs of the 11th, 13th, and 17th Dynasties were discovered here,
but they have all been destroyed. The Rock Tombs on the hill-slope of
Drah Abu’l Negga are more interesting. Immediately behind the last
houses in the village of Kurna is the Tomb of Neb—Amon, dating from the
beginning of the New Empire, with tasteful stucco reliefs of vintage and
funeral scenes. A hole in this tomb is the only access to the adjacent
Tomb of Ment—her-lchopshef, royal fan-bearer. Of the two chambers here
one has been ﬁlled up by a landslip. The very ﬁne reliefs of the other

represent burial-scenes and funeral sacriﬁces. — Farther to the N. is the
unﬁnished Tomb of Ramosé, an architect.

4. Biban el-Mnlﬁk. Tombs of the Kings.

The Tomes OF THE KINGS AT Bins»: EL-MULI‘JK belong to the 18-20th Dyn-
asties, and, in contrast to the pyramids that mark the graves of kings
up to the beginning of the New Empire, consist of series of passages and
chambers hewn in the rock. Like the corridors within the pyramids they
were intended only for the reception of the sarcophagus; the temples
dedicated to the manes of the deceased, in which the oﬂerings to the dead
were made, were built in the plain.

The STRUCTURE of the tombs is practically the same in all. Tln'ee
Corridors, placed one beyond the other, led into the innermost recesses.
Small side-chambers sometimes Opened off the ﬁrst corridor; oblong recesses
were made at the top of the sides of the second; and small recesses for
the reception of the furniture of the dead were provided at the end of
the third. A door led from the third corridor into an Anteroom, beyond
which lay the Main Hall, where, in a hollow in the ﬂoor, the heavy
granite sarcophagus was deposited. The main hall, the roof of which

