Kiosk. 121nm. 99. Route“. 343

a. goddess playing the lyre. Below: The mummy of Osiris borne by a
crocodlle, Wllh Isis standing to the left; higher up is the sun among moun-
tains; and_ above the whole are the sun, a half-moon, and stars. The
whole des1gn 1s shown within a small temple, with a door to the left, and
two large pylons and one small one in front. -— To the left of the 'door
is an unfinished _relief of the king presenting lands. Above are three lines
In ElthplC curslve characters (1). cix) ——— In the second row from the
top, on the Right Wall (1)].10), is the celebrated Representation of the Source
of the ere: at the foot of a rocky eminence on which perch a vulture and
a hawk, the Nlle-god, surrounded by a serpent, pours water from two
vases. - To the right of this is Home (in the form ofa hawk), on areedy
lake between Hathor (left) and Isis, Nephthys, Horns, and Ammon (right).

A subterranean staircase to the S. of Hadrian‘s Gateway leads to a
Ntlameter (lights necessary), which has hieratic and demotic scales as well
as the customary Coptic one.

From Hadrian’s Gateway we now proceed to the N., and beyond
the ruins of a Temple of Harendotes (p. oxxvi), built by the Emp.
Claudius, we reach a small Coptic Church, with a semicircular apse,
into which have been built blocks with the name of Claudius, from
the temple of Harendotes. Farther on is a ruined Temple of Au-
gustus, built in the 18th year of that emperor‘s reign. In front of
it is the Foundation in which was discovered the inscription of Cor-
nelius Gallus, now at Gizeh (p. 91). Before the staircase lies a
granite architrave, with a Greek inscription. —— To the N.W. are
the remains of a Coptic Convent and of a house with a bath.

At the extreme N.E. of the island, and in the axis ofthe Temple
of Augustus, is a large Roman Town Gate, with three arches, the
side-arches being lower than that in the centre. The N. side-arch
has a domical stone vault in the Roman style. This gateway was
probably erected by Diocletian.

The main street of the Coptic town (p. 337) runs to the 8.19.
from the town-gate to the ruins of a larger Coptic Church, where it
turns to the S.W. In this street, about 50 paces to the E. of the
Temple of Isis, lies the ——

*Temple of Hathor, dedicated to Hathor-Aphrodite by Philo-
metor and Euergetes II. The Colonnade in front of it (recently
restored) and the Sanctuary (now vanished) were added by Augustus.
The columns in the former were united by screen-walls, on which
Augustus appeared sacriﬁcing to various forms of Hathor. On the
columns themselves are charming representations of ﬂute-players,
harpers, servants with antelopes, ﬁgures of Bes playing the tam-
bourine and the harp and dancing, apes playing the lyre, priests
carrying an antelope, etc. The temple proper is in better preser-
vation; in front of it are two plant—columns, which were joined to
the walls by means of screens.

From this temple we follow the main street as far as a small
chapel. Hence a lane to the left leads to the ——

**Kiosk, the chief decoration and the characteristic symbol of
the island. Its slender and graceful form greets the eyes of travellers
as they approach the island, and rest and luncheon may well be
enjoyed on this beautiful spot. The Kiosk, which dates from the

