118 Route 8. GREAT PYRAMID. Pyramids

to avoid the discomfort of arriving breathless and heated at the
summit. The space at the t0p at present is about 12 yds. square,
so that there is abundant room for a large party of visitors.

The **VIE\V is remarkably intercsting and striking. There is
perhaps no other prospect in the world in which life and death,
fertility and desolation, are seen in so close juxtaposition and in
such marked contrast. To the W. (S. W. and N.W.) extend yellowish
brown and glaring tracts of sand, interspersed with barren cliffs.
The huge and colourless monuments erected hcre by thc hand of
man remind the spectator, like thc desert itself, of death and
eternity. On a bare plateau of rock stand the other pyramids and
the Sphinx, rearing its hcad from the sand, like some monster suf-
focated by the dust. To the 8., in the distance, rise the pyramids
of Abusir, Sakkara, and Dahshur; to the N. stretch the ﬁelds in
the valley of the Nile. Towards the E., on the othcr hand, glitters
the river, on each bank of which stretches a tract of rich arable
land, luxuriantly clothed with blue-green vegetation, and varying
in breadth. The ﬁelds are intersected in every direction by canals,
on the banks of which rise stately palms, waving their ﬂexible fan-
like leaves, and interlacing their shadows over the fellah villages
pcrched like ant-hills on embankments and mounds. In the direction
of Cairo runs the long straight carriage-road. Immediately before
us rises the Citadel with its striking minarets, while the Mokattam
hills, which form the chief mass of colour in the landscape, gleam
in the morning with a pale golden tint, and in the evening with a
violet hue.

The descent of the Great Pyramid is more rapidly accomplished
than the ascent, but is hardly less fatiguing. Persons liable to
giddiness may ﬁnd it a little trying, but the help of the Beduins
removes all danger.

INTERIOR (comp. Plan, p. 117). A visit to the interior of the
Great Pyramid is comparatively uninteresting to the ordinary tourist.
It will be found fatiguing, and an interval of rest between the ascent
and this expedition is recommended. Travellers who are in the
slightest degree prcdisposed to apoplectic or fainting ﬁts and ladies
travelling alone should not attempt to penetrate into these stiﬂing
recesses. The explorer has to crawl and clamber through low and
narrow passages, which, at places, especially near the entrance, are
not above 31/2 ft. high and lift. wide. The stones on the ﬂoor are
often extremely slippery, and the close air smells strongly of bats.
The temperature of the interior is 79° Fahr. The attempts of the
guides to goad the visitor into inconvenient hurry shonld be dis-
regarded.

The Entrance (Pl. a) is on the N. side (as in all pyramids), on
the thirteenth tier of stones, at a perpcndicular height ot'48 ft. from
the ground. The long passage a 7‘, which is now only 3 ft. 4 in. in
width a1n13 ft. '11 in. in height, descends in a straight direction

