lxxxvi

569-526.

525.

525-521.

521-486.

487.

486-465.
465-425.
463.

424-404.
404362.
362-338.

404.

 

HISTORY.

Amasis (AhmosE) secured his supremacy by marriage with
a daughter of Psammetikh II. A campaign undertaken
by Nebuchadnezzar against Egypt led to the ﬁnal aban-
donment of the Egyptian claims upon Syria. Amasis as-
signed the city of Naucratis (p. 21) to Greek colonists,
who speedily made it the most important commercial town
in the empire. A friendly alliance was made with Poly-
krates, tyrant of Samos. During this reign Cyrus founded
his great Persian empire (550), including the whole of
W. Asia.

Psammetikh III. was defeated at Pelusium by the Persian
king Cambyses, and Egypt became a Persian province.

XXVlI. DYNASTY. PERSIAN DOMINATION.

The Persian monarchs appeared as successors to the native
rulers and by their moderation found favour with the greater
part of the population. The old religion was unmolested.

Gambyses led an unsuccessful expedition against the oasis
of Ammon (Siwa) and a campaign against Ethiopia.

Darius I. endeavoured to promote the prosperity of Egypt
in every possible way. The canal from the Nile to the
Red Sea was completed (p. lxxxv). A strong garrison was
sent to the oasis of Khargeh and a temple was built there
to Ammon. After the battle of Marathon the Egyptians,
headed by Khabash, revolted and expelled the Persians.
The insurrection, however, was quelled by —

Xerxes I., who appointed his brother Achaemenes satrap.

Artaxerxes I. During this reign the Egyptians again revolt-
ed. Ina/ros, prince of Marea, aided by the Athenians, de—
feated Achaemenes, the Persian satrap, but the allied
Egyptians and Greeks were in turn defeated by the Per-
sian general Megabyzos near Propositis, an island in the
Nile, and Inaros was cruciﬁed. Amyrtaeos, a partizan of
Inaros, then sought an asylum in the marshy district of
the Delta, where he succeeded in maintaining his inde-
pendence.

Herodotus visited Egypt.

Darius II. The Persian power gradually declined. Under ——

Artaxerxes II. and his successor -——

Artaxerxes III. the Egyptians once more revolted and suc-
ceeded in regaining their independence for a brief period
under native rulers, whom Manetho assigns to the 28th-
30th Dynasties. ,

‘ xxvnr. DYNASTY.

Amyrtaeos of Sa'is maintained his authority for a short time
only. In Lower Egypt several dynasties contended for
sovereignty.

