298 Route ‘34. THEBES (W. BANK). .’I. Temples of

at an early period. The pavilion had two upper stories, containing
several small apartments, formerly reached by staircases, and pro-
bably used as temporary quarters for the king and his suite.

The Facade of the Right Wing (Pl. b) shows the king smiting his
foes in presence of Harmachis; below are six fettered princes, re-
presenting the peoples overcome by Ramses III. (Kheta, Emor,
Thakari, Shardana or Sardinians, Shakalasha or Sicilians, Tuirsha
or Tyrrhenians, and Pulasta or Philistines; comp. p. 240). On the
Facade of the Left Wing (Pl. 0) is a corresponding picture of Ramses
sniiting his foes before Amrnon-Re; below are Nubians (negroes)
and Libyans.

In the Court between the towers are seated ﬁgures of the lion-
headed goddess Sekhmet, in black granite. 0n the walls, between
the ﬁrst and second stories, are a number of curious consoles or
brackets, which are adorned with the busts of four captive enemies,
and formerly bore statues of the king. The reliefs on the walls are
mostly sacriﬁcial in character.

Right UV.) Wall of the Court. The representations from right to left
are: 1. Ramses sacriﬁcing to Set (defaced) and to Newt, helow is the king
presenting two rows of captives to Ammon. 2. The king offering wine to
Atum and a goddess; below, the same offering ﬂowers to Enhor and to a
goddess. 3. Mont (defaced) and Atum present the king to Ammon. ——
Left (5.) Wall of the Court. 4. The king presents an image of Ammon
to Harmachis and Maat; below, he leads two rows of captives before Am-
“1011 (the Libyans in the lower row, drawn full—face, should he noticed).
5. The king offers incense to the Moon-god and to Sefkhet-ehui; below,
he presents an image of Moat to Ptah and Sefkhet. In the second story is
a window with attractive ceiling-decorations. 6. The king before Ammon,
with Nut and Thout behind him.

In the Gateway (Pl. a) leading to the fore-court the king appears
leading two rows of fettered captives before Ammon (on the left),
and smiting a band of enemies (on the right).

A staircase in the S. tower ascends to the two APARTMENTS in
the upper story 0f the middle structure, the ﬂoor separating which
has disappeared. The wall-reliefs of the lower room have vanished,
but those of the upper room (harem scenes) are still quite distinct.
The wind0w commands a ﬁne view of the temples and ruined village
on the W. and of the plain to the E. Similar reliefs adorn the walls
of the other (inaccessible) rooms.

Some of these BELIEFS may be seen from below. One, on the W.
wall of a room in the upper story of the N. Wing, is visible from the
entrance; it represents the king seated with four maidens before him
and another behind him. — qeveral others are visible on passing through
the gateway a and turning to the right towards the open N. side of the
N. Wing. To the left in the upper story are two Windows. To the left
of one of these are two maidens; to the right of the other, the king on
a chair, with a maiden behind him and two in front of him. More to
the right, near a hole in the wall, the king with a maiden standing in
front of him, and a kneeling and a standing woman to the left (partly
destroyed). Below is a narrow window, with vases of ﬂowers above, and
to the right the king listening to girl-musicians. — In this part of the N.
wing we may ohserve the holes in which the ends of the rafters supporting
the ﬂoors of the upper stories were inserted.

