226

22. Dendera.

A hasty visit to the temple at Dendera may be accomplished in 3 hrs.
Well—equipped donkeys stand in readiness on the bank opposite Keneh
(there and back 4 pias., fee 1 pias.). The visitor should not fail to be
provided with candles or (better still) a magnesium lamp for exploring the
crypts and other parts of the temple.

The distance from the landing—place to the temple (about 21/231.)
is easily accomplished on donkey-back in 1/2 hr. The route follows
the Nile t0 the N. through palm-trees, then proceeds to the W.
through well-tilled ﬁelds to the conspicuous mound of rubbish,
marking the site of the ruins.

Dendera, the Tentyra of the Greeks, is one of the most ancient
and most famous cities of Egypt, and was the capital of the sixth
nome of Upper Egypt. Its ancient name was Enet, or in its fuller
form, Enet-te-ntoré, ‘Enet of the Goddess’ (Le. of Hathor), of which
the Greek and modern Arabic names are corruptions. Enet was the
chief seat of the worship of Hathor [the Egyptian Aphrodite), god—
dess of love and joy. Along with her husband, the hawk-headed
Horus of Edfu, and her son, the youthful Ehi or Har-sem-tewe
(‘Horus, uniter of both lands’; Gr. Harsomtus), she was worshipped
in the magniﬁcent temple, which remains here to this day. Her
chief feFtival synchronized with the great Feast of the New Year.

The gate, to which our road leads and where the cards of ad-
mission (see p. 184) are shown, forms the N. termination of the
wall of Nile bricks enclosing the temple. The total enclcsure is
317 yds. long and 306 yds. wide, and besides the large Temple
of Hathor contains a small Sanctuary of Isis and a so-called Birth
House (p. 231). The N. Gate was built under the Emp. Domitian,
who is here named Germanicus. On the side next the temple
appear the names of Nerva and Trajanus, also with the epithet of
Germanicus (Trajan is here also called Dacicus). There is another
similar gate on the E. side ; while beyond the temple-precincts, also
to the E., is a third gate, dating from the Roman imperial epoch.

From the N. gate a passage between modern brick walls leads
to the ——

**Temple of Hathor, which, though now deeply sunk in the
accumulated rubbish of centuries, is in better preservation than
any other large ancient Egyptian temple except those of Edfu and
Philae. It was built in the ﬁrst century B.C. during the reigns of
the later Ptolemies and of Augustus; but it occupies the site of an
older ediﬁce, going back traditionally to the earliest period of Egyp-
tian history, and added to or altered not only by the kings of the
12th Dyn., but also by the great monarchs of the New Empire,
such as Thutmosis IlI., Ramses II., and Ramses III. The decoration
of the temple-walls with reliefs took place at a still more recent
date. In accordance with the plan of other temples (comp. P1. of
Edfu7 p. 314), a colonnade and two large pylons should stand in

