Shékh'Abdel—Kuma. THEBES(W. BANK). ‘24.Roule. 289.

Ramose appears standing (left) and praying (right). The second
chamber, which ends in a recess, was left unﬁnished.

To the left is the Tomb of Kha-em-hét (No. 120-, now ﬁllcd up), super-
intendent of the royal granaries under Amenophis IV. It contains admirable
lo_w reliefs. On the left of the entrance is Kha-em-hét oll'ering a prayer to
Re with uplifted hands. In the niche to the left in the ﬁrst wide Chamber
are two statues of Kha-em-hét and his relative, Imholep, the treasurer
(comp. Tomb 121). On the right of the entrance is the deceased o ﬁ‘ering two
dishes With. tWo geese in each. On the left are four rows; in the two
upper, fowllng-scenes; below, the king driving a four-horse chariot; and
in the lowest, harvest-scenes, with a ﬂute-player encouraging the reapers.
0n the rear-wall to the left Kha-em-het presents a report on the harvest
to King Anrenophis III. sitting beneath a canopy. The nine captive tribes
at the foot of the canopy should be noticed. On the right is a similar
scene. Behind Kha-em-hét are two rows of his ofﬁcials in humble at-
titudes. The chess-board decoration of the ceiling is peculiar. — The texts
and scenes in the Corridor relate to the life beyond the tomb. The Side
Chambers and the Recess at the end of the corridor contain large seated
statues, very highly polished. Adjoining the recess opens a small unadorned
chamber.

The adjoining Tomb No. 121, now ﬁlled up, belonged to IMHOTEP, a
royal scribe (see above). — Tomb No. 125, belonging to a contemporary
of Thutmosis I. named AMENEMHET, contains reliefs of hunting scenes.

To the right of the tomb of Ramose is the “Tomb of Nakht
(No. 125], dating from the beginning of the 18th Dynasty. This
tomb, which is in better preservation than most of the others, con-
tains two chambers, of which, however, only the ﬁrst is decorated.
The paintings on the walls are wonder-
fully brilliant. Under Amenophis IV.
the name of Ammon has been oblit-

gdwm \ \ .\ ,.. . \C. \.

 

 

erated wherever it occurred. s \,
Wall A. In the lower row is the de- :5 5

ceased superintending his labourers, who 5‘ C

are ploughing, digging, and sowing, two 1B

men are breaking the clods with hammers ; ‘ . A

 

 

 

to the left a labourer drinks from a wine- ;\ A l .
skin hanging from a tree; a tree is being ‘

felled. In the upper row, to the right. the
deceased inspects harvest-operations represented in three rows:’1. three
men reaping with sickles, behind them a woman gleaning, two men ack-
ing the ears of corn in a basket, two women plucking durra; . the
threshed corn being measured; 3. WinnoWing the grain. To the left, the
deceased and his wife sacriﬁcing. — Wall B. Blind door painted to imitate
granite. Over the true door are the deceased and his 'wife, and beside
and beneath it are attendants with grapes and other offerings. —- Wall 0
(in poorest preservation). In the lower row the deceased and his wife are
seated at table, upon a bench, below which is a cat eating ﬁsh; their son
brings ﬂowers and geese to them, while three women make music, and
other relatives sit in two rows to the left. Only the left half of the upper
row remains: below are a harper and women seated on the ground cou-
versing; above, women at table (mutilated). — Wall D. In the lower
row, the deceased and his Wife seated in an arbour, while servants bring
them ﬂowers, grapes, poultry, ﬁsh, etc.; to the rightbirds 'are being caught
in nets and plucked, above, vintage and Wine-pressrng. In the upper row,
to the left, are the deceased and his wife, to the right, the d_eccas_ed
spearing ﬁsh and fowling. —— Wall E (unﬁnished). Nakht and his Wife
seated at table, while their relatives bring offerings. —— Wall F. The_ de-
ceased and his wife, followed by three rows of servants, offer a sacriﬁce
(as on Wall A).

BAEDEimn’s Egypt. 5th Ed. 19

