cxx RELIGION.

animal-worship. It was probably only this excessive expansion of
animal-worship that struck the Greeks in Egypt as remarkable. For
traces of a similar worship were common to various Oriental peoples,
and even among the Greeks and Romans themselves certain animals
were regarded as sacred to the gods, as, e.g., the lions of Cybele, the
owl of Athena, and the eagle of Zeus.

A stage beyond fetishism was reached when the Egyptians began
to form an anthropomorphic conception of their deities. The gods
had human forms and wore clothing like human beings. Like prin-
ces, they wore on their heads helmets or crowns, and, like the
primaeval rulers, they had lions’ tails fastened to the back of their
aprons. They bore the sceptre or the commanders baton as the
symbol of their might. The deities that were conceived of as animals
now received human ﬁgures, with the heads of the animals sacred
to them. Thus Sable appears as a man with a crocodile’s head,
Khnum as a man with a goat’s head, the ibis—headed Thout and the
ram-headed Amman have human bodies, etc. Though such a devicc
cannot but appear both strange and repellant to us as it did to the
Greeks, it must he confessed that the Egyptian artists in their reliefs
and statues of those animal-headed gods managed the transition from
the animal’s head to the human body with remarkable skill. Thc
god frequently had a wife and a son, and in that case this so-called
Triad dwelt and was worshipped in one temple. Divine families
of this kind are exempliﬁed in Ptah, god of Memphis, with his wife
Sekhmet and his son Nefertem, and by Osiris, Isis, and Horus.
Atum, the local deity of Heliopolis, had as many as eight com-
panions assigned to him, and the worship of the nine gods became
so popular that it was adopted in many different localities, the
place of Atum being taken by the local god in each.

Human passions and virtues were attributed to the gods; and
numerous tales were told by the faithful of the divine exploits and
adventures. Unfortunately most of these myths have perished; of
the few that have come down to us the best known is the story of
Osiris, which in antiquity also was one of the most widely spread.
Osiris ruled as king over Egypt and the country enjoyed the bless-
ings of prosperity. But Set, his wicked brother, conspired against
him, and at a banquet persuaded him to enter a cunningly wrought
chest, which he and his seventy-two accomplices then closed and
threw into the Nile. The river carried the chest down to the sea,
and the waves at length washed it ashore near the Phoenician By—
blos. Meanwhile Isis roamed in distress throughout the country,
seeking her lost husband; and she at length succeeded in discovering
his cofﬁn, Which she carried to a sequestered spot and concealed.
She then set out to visit her son Horus, who was being educated at
Buto. During her absence Set, while engaged in a boar-hunt, found
the body of his brother, cut it into fourteen pieces, and scattered
them in every direction. As soon as Isis learned What had happened,

