xviii HOTELS.

are usually to be found standing about near the hotels and one of
these may be employed as interpreter (though oﬁers of farther service
should be ﬁrmly declined). The traveller should keep his eye on
the direction taken by the cab, as sometimes the cabman drives
straight ahead in complete ignorance of the way, and requires to be
guided, 6.9. by being touched with a stick on the right or left arm
according to the turning, or with the words yeminak (to the right),
shemtilak (to the left), dughri (straight on). The cabs usually drive
rapidly, so that their use saves time and strength.

Donkeys (Arab. Zwmér) still form the best means of conveyance,
not only in the smaller towns and on the bridle-paths in the country,
but also in the environs of Cairo, as they can go anywhere and are
not conﬁned to the dusty carriage-roads. Egyptian donkeys are of a
much ﬁner, swifter, and more spirited race than the European, and
are at the same time patient and persevering. Those in the towns are
generally well saddled and bridled in Oriental style. In the country
both the donkeys and equipment are inferior; saddles, stirrups, and
even bridles are occasionally conspicuous by their absence. As the
gait of some of the donkeys is very uneasy when they break into
a trot, care should be taken not to engage one with this defect for
an excursion of any length. The best method of guiding the donkey
is to strike it lightly on the head with a stick. The donkey-boys
(Arab. hammdr) are fond of showing off the pace of their beasts,
and often drive them unpleasantly fast, though galloping is for-
bidden in the towns. The rider who prefers a slower pace shouts
‘ala mahlak or ‘ala mahlakum; if a quicker pace is wanted, yalla,
yalla, or mdshi, or salt el-Iwmc‘w; if a halt is to be made, osbur, or
the English word ‘stop’. The donkey-boys (especially at Cairo) are
usually active and intelligent, though occasionally mischievous and
impudent. At some of the most frequented tourist-resorts the trav-
eller has to protect himself from the charge of the importunate light
cavalry by threatening to use his stick.

(4). Hotels.

The large hotels in Cairo and its environs are among the best in
the world, combining western comfort with eastern luxury. Almost
as much may be said for the leading houses at Luxor and Assudn
(comp. pp. 233, 327), while there are very fair hotels at Alexandria,
Port Sa'id, and a few other places. They are managed mainly on the
American system, a ﬁxed sum daily (p. ‘24,) being paid for lodging
and board, the latter consisting of breakfast, luncheon, and dinner.
Wine, beer, and other liquors, which are extras, are dear, the
cheapest wine costing 10-15 pias. per bottle, and British and Ger—
man beer about the same. The waiter’s fee should be calculated
at about 5 per cent of the bill. Clothing given out to wash is charged
at the rate of 21/2-3 fr. per dozen articles for gentlemen’s garments
4—5 fr. per dozen for ladies’ garments, quite irrespective of size. ,

