of Horus. EDFU. ‘27. Route. 317

the foundation of the temple, etc. Above are a row of astronomical
representations and a frieze consisting of the names of the king
guarded by two hawks. Close to the pavement we see Euergetes and
his wife Cleopatra, and a long procession of local deities bringing
sacriﬁcial gifts to the three chief gods of Edfu. —- To the right and
left of the entrance are two small Chapels. One (P1. 01) is the ‘Con-
secration Chamber’, as is indicated by the relief on the rear-wall,
representing Horus (right) and Thout (left) pouring the consecrated
water upon the king. The chapel to the right (Pl. e) was the library;
upon its walls is a catalogue ofthe books preserved here. On the left
wall Sefkhet, goddess of literature, appears writing upon a palm—
leaf. — A side—door (P1. f) in the E. wall of the hall admits to the
inner passage (p. 318) round the temple. -—— Above the door in the
N. wall of the vestibule is a curious representation. The sun appears
with the ﬁgure of a winged beetle ascending from the horizon in a
boat guided by two ﬁgures of the hawk—headed Horus. Next the sun,
on the left, is Thout, on the right Neith, and also Wep—wat (as a
jackal), Maat, and Hathor. In an attitude of worship, at the sides,
are Four :S'mses; to the right sight and hearing, to the left taste
(symbolized by a tongue) and reason. In front of the last is Ptolemy
Philopator. To the right stands an altar of dark granite, indicated
by an inscription as the votive gift of a citizen to Horus of Edfu.

Next follows the Hypostyle Hall, the roof of which is borne
by 12 columns with rich ﬂoral capitals, farther embellished by so-
called heads of Hathor. Apertures near the top of the walls and
square openings in the ceiling admit light to this hall. The represen-
tations on the walls resemble those of the preceding great vestibule.
Adjoining are ﬁve side-chambers, two of which (Pl. XVIII and XIX)
served as Passage Rooms to the inner passage round the temple, one
(Pl. XVII) was a Laboratory, while from another (Pl. XX) the great E.
staircase led up to the roof of the temple.

On each side of the adjoining VESTIBULE I. is an approach to one
of the Staircases leading to the temple—roof. The mural reliefs on
the staircases resemble the corresponding reliefs at Dendera (p.219).
On that on the E. (Pl. XVI) is a procession of priests ascending,
headed by the king; on that 011 the W. (Pl. XIV) is the same de—
scending. The corridors and chambers on the roof contain nothing
of interest. The roof of VESTIBULE II has fallen in. — To the E. of
Vestibule II we enter a small open Court, in which is an elegant little
Pavilion, open in front, with two columns with ﬂoral capitals sup—-
porting the roof. Upon the roof is Newt, goddess of the sky, beneath
whom appear various forms of the sun in boats. —- To the left of
Vestibule II is a Room (Pl. XI) dedicated to the god Min.

A door in Vestibule II admits to the Sanctuary, originally pitch—
dark, though now the daylight streams in through the broken roof.
Within stands a granite shrine (Pl. l), with a pointed roof, dedicated
to Horus by King Nekht-Har-ehbét. This also stood in the original

