110 Route 7. SPRING 0F MOSES. Environs

This hill stands at the mouth of the narrow, winding valley, 3/4 M.
in length, through which the path to the Spring of Moses ascends
over large blocks of stone and rubble. The ravine terminates in a
lofty amphitheatre of rock. Here is a cleft in the rock from which
trickle a few drops of bitter and brackish water, quite arbitrarily
named the Spring of Moses ('Ain Maw). The chief attractions of
the gorge consist in the numerous desert plants and the fossils it
contains and in the sense of perfect solitude which it conveys.

In order to reach the smaller Petriﬁed Forest, we return to the
mouth of the gorge and proceed towards the S.E., skirting the
slopes of the Molsattam, which are here more precipitous. We ﬁrst
pass a black projecting rock, which has a glazed appearance, and
then a square gap in the rock, beyond which we observe opposite
to us gently sloping hills, consisting of limestone, marl, and beds
of fossil oysters. The route ascends, a little to the right, between
these hills, and soon reaches the plateau of the Gebel el-Khashab,
where the scattered fragments of fossil wood indicate the begin-
ning of the Little Petriﬁed Forest. Almost all these trunks and
fragments have been referred by Unger to an extinct tree, which he
named the Nicolia [Egyptiaca and regarded as akin to the bombacew.
The petrit'action is now generally supposed to have Occurred during
the later tertiary period under the action of silicious geysers, such
as are to be seen to—day in the Yellowstone Park of North America.
The silicated trunks lie in a secondary stratum, the overlying strata
in which they were originally embedded having disappeared in the
course of the desert denudation.

Crossing the plateau of the Petriﬁed Forest for about 20 min.
more towards the 8., we suddenly reach the S. slopes of the Mo-
kattam, through a gap in which a path descends into the Wt‘zdi et-
Tih, or ‘valley of wanderings’ (more correctly dei Digla). This
valley stretches to the W.N.W. towards the valley of the Nile, and
begins at the hills of Gharabﬁn, like the parallel Wadi Hof (p.155),
which debouches to the N. of Helwan. 011 the S. horizon rise the
hills of Turra (p. 155), recognisable by the old fortress on their right
spur and by two heights exactly opposite to us, of which that to the
left somewhat resembles a cofﬁn in shape, while that to the right
is hemispherical. Crossing the bottom of the valley in this direction
(8.), we perceive in the Turra hills the entrance to a desert gorge,
bounded by lofty and precipitous slopes. This valley extends for
many miles in various windings, communicates with the ravines
of the desert which begin in the Gebel Hof near Helwan, and is
abundantly stocked with the plants peculiar to the desert.

We may return to Cairo from the Little Petriﬁed Forest through
the ‘Valley of Wanderings’, skirting the S. and W. slopes of the
Mokattam, and passing the Tombs of the Mamelukes. Another in-
teresting return—route leads across the Mokattam hills. If we choose
the latter we quit the Petriﬁed Forest by a hollow to the S.W., and

