82 Route 6. MUS EllM OF Giza H. Ground Floor.

N. side: Table Case containing "‘"5'G0LDEN ORNAMENTS, found in
1894 by J. de Morgan near the N. and S. brick pyramid sat Dahshﬁr
(p. 153). The principal pieces, illustrating the high pitch of skill
attained by Egyptian goldsmiths about ‘2000 B.C., are the following.
— 1348. Bclonging to Princess Sit-Hathor (12th Dyn.): a. Gold
Breast Ornament in the shape of a temple, inlaid in a mosaic style
with cornelian, lapis lazuli, and turquoises; in the middle is the
name of ['sertesen (Sesostris) 11., supported on either side by ahaWk
perched upon the hieroglyphic symbol for ‘gold’, and wearing the
Egyptian double crown. b. SiX gold shells, from a necklace. 01. Two
lotus ﬂowers tied together. — 1349. Belonging to the Princess
Merit: b. Gold Breast Ornament inlaid with gems; at the top is a
vulture with outspread wings, representing Nekhbet, the patron-
goddess of the king, below is the name of Usertesen III., to the right
and left of which are two hawk-headed sphinxes, as symbols of the
king, each trampling upon two foes. a. Breast Ornament of the same
kind, at the top is the vulture, below is the name of Amenemhét III.,
on either side of which the king appears, grasping a kneeling Asiatic
by the hair and smiting him with a club. 0. Golden Shell, orna-
mented with a water-lily (so-called Nymphaea) inlaid in coloured
gems. g, h. Two small golden cosmetic boxes, one with zigzag
ornaments, the other with inlaid gems. 1'. Two Bracelet Ornaments
in gold and coloured gems, showing the name of Amenemhét III.
q, 7. Cosmetic boxes in cornelian, lapis lazuli, golden shells, lions’
heads (from chains), etc. —— 1350. Found in the cofﬁn of the Prin-
cess Neb-hetepti-khrot: a. Silver diadem inlaid with gems, with the
nrzeus-serpent in front, b. Golden vulture’s head; 0. Two ends of a
chain in the form of golden hawks heads; (I. Dagger-blade in gold;
7’. Portion of a scourge. Also bracelets, necklaces, golden pins, etc.

1361-1363. Table Case.- ”“31361. Ornaments found in the tomb
of Princess Ita, to the W. of the Pyramid of Amenemhét II. at Dah-
shﬁr: a. Dagger with inlaid hilt; b. Bracelet of massive gold,
c. Hawk in cornelian. Also chains; network of cornelian and porce-
lain beads.

2“$1362. Ornaments from the tomb ofPrincess Khnumet: a. Pair
of golden hawks’ heads, from the end of a breast-ornament, b. Gold
chains, chain with various appendages, c. Clasps of bracelets. Chains
and appendages 0f the ﬁnest workmanship.

“’*1363. Ornaments from the tomb (serdéb) of Khnumet:
a. Golden wreath, with inlaid stones; b. Similar wreath; 0. Golden
twig, originally fastened to the front of b; d. Hovering hawk in
chased gold, originally fastened to the back of b, e. Appendages
for a chain, in the form of hieroglyphics. Magniﬁcent gold chains,
masterpieces of Egyptian goldsmith’s work.

Table Case 1364 contains necklaces and bracelets found in the
tombs of two princesses beside the Pyramid of Amenemhét II., at
Dahshi‘lr.

