212 Route 78. ASSIUT.

Assiut.

The tourist-sttamers spend 1/2 day here. —— Railway Station, see p. 191.

Hotel. NEW HOTEL, near the station, well spoken of.

Post at Telegraph Ofﬁce. —— SleamboalAgenct‘es. — Hospital, with physician
educated in Europe. — Public Baths, well ﬁtted up.

Consular Agents. The American consular agent is Bestaoroa el-Khaiydt
(also German consul), one of the leading inhabitants 0fthe town, residing
on the left; side of the road from the harbour t0 the station. There are
also French and Austrian consular representatives.

Pottery and other Oriental Goods may be obtained in the Bazaar at lower
prices than at Cairo. European goods are dearer.

Assiﬁl, or Shit (the name of which still preserves the ancient
Egyptian Syowt), enjoyed considerable importance, even in anti-
quity, chieﬂy owing to its favourable situation in the midst of an
extensive and fertile plain and at the beginning of a great caravan
route leading to the oases in the Libyan desert and theme to the
Sudan. The town was the capital of the Upper Sycamore Nome and
the chief seat of the worship of the god Wep—wat, who was repre-
sented as ajackal or wolf of the desert. This latter circumstance
gave rise to the Greek name Lycopolis, or ‘wolf town”. The modern
Assiut, which extends for about a mile from E. to W., is the largest
town (over 42,000 inhab.) in Upper Egypt, the capital of a pro-
vince, and the residence of the Mudir. It has, however, lost part of
its commercial importance since the great caravans from W. Africa
have frequented other routes and places. The ﬁne pottery of Assiut,
especially its bottles and pipe-bowls, is justly celebrated and forms
an important article in its export trade, which also deals in linen,
embroidered leather goods, carved ivory, natron, soda, and corn.
Near the harbour are several large palm—gardens, in which also grow
pomegranate, ﬁg, and other fruit trees. These gardens are let at
high prices and produce rich harvests of fruit. The streets and
bazaars are full of busy life, especially on Saturdays, when the

people of the neighbourhood ﬂock into the market.

Plolz’nus, the grvatest of the NeO-Platonic philosophers (205-270 A. D.),
was born here in the beginning of the 3rd cent., and his system was not
uninﬂuenced by the priestly doctrines of his native town. From the be-
ginning of the 4th cent. onwards Christianity was dominant in the town
and neighbourhood. Pious believers took refuge in the caves of the
necropolis to live a. life of penitence apart from the world. One of these,
John of Lycopolis. at the end of the 4th cent., bore the reputation of a
saint and even of a prophet. Theodosius sent an embassy to him to en-
quire the outcome of the civil war. The anchorite foretold a complete
but bloody victory, and this prophecy was fulﬁlled in the victory of
Theodosius over Eugenius at Aquileia in 394 A.D. — The Egyptian Mission
of the American Presbyterians (100 stations, 26 churches, 97 schools) has
one of its chief stations at Assiﬁt (director, Rev. Mr. Alexander).

The *Rock Tombs of Ancient Assiut lie about 3/4 hr. from the
harbour (donkey with good saddle there and back 4 pias., fee 1 pias.).
Riding through part of the town, we diverge from the main street
at the point where it bends to the right and proceed to the left,
through the cultivated land and across a handsome bridge, to the

