64 Route 5. TOMBS OF THE KHALiFs. Environs

The third street debouching at the Bond Point is the Faggdla
Street, from which, a little farther on, to the left, diverges the Shdri‘a
eg-Zéhi'r (Pl. 0, D, 1), pleasantly shaded by lebbek-trees. In its pro-
longation is the Méddn eg- Zdhi'r, with the large mosque of that name,
erected by the Mameluke sultan Ez-Zahir Bibars (p. xcvi) at the close
of the 13th century. Its exterior walls only have been preserved,
and it is now a British military magazine.

Beyond the Médan ez-Zahir is the Shdri‘a el—‘Abba‘siyeh (PLE, 1),
which was laid out in 1870 on the site of large heaps of rubbish,
and traverses the quarter of ‘Abbdsiyeh (p. 77; electric tramway
from the Ezbekiyeh, see p. 27).

5. The Immediate Environs of Cairo.

The most interesting points in the immediate neighbourhood of Cairo
may all be reached by Carriage (p. 27):, but travellers who use Donkeys
(p. 27) are more independent among the Tombs of the Khalifs and elsewhere.

1. The Tombs of the Khalifs and the Mamelukes.

A visit to the Tombs of the Khalifs (and to a certain degree to the
Tombs of the Mamelukes also) is exceedingly interesting, especially to-
wards sunset, owing to the very novel and curious picture they present. ——
Tickets of Admission, see p. 30.

The large and superb mausolea of the 13—16th cent., which,
under the names Tombs of the K'haltﬁs and Tombs of the Mamelukes,
stretch along the entire E. side of the city, were erected by the
Bahrite and Circassian Mameluke sultans. The name ‘Tombs of
the Khalifs’, applied to the northernmost group, is historically a
misnomer, for the tombs have no connection with the 'Abbaside
Khalifs then resident in Egypt (p. xciii) and treated as mere titled
puppets. All these mosque-tombs were once richly endowed, each
being provided with a numerous staff of shékhs and attendants, who
with their families resided within their precincts. The revenues of
the mosques having been conﬁscated at the beginning of the pre-
sent century, the tombs gradually fell to ruin. Now, however, the
Committee mentioned at p. 30 has taken them into its keeping.

The usual route (very dusty) to the *Tombs of the Khalifs leads
through the Bdb en—Nasr (Pl. E, 2; p. 62), past the Mohammedan
cemetery and the reservoir of the water-works (p. 63). To the right
is the Windmill Hill (p. 67). Beyond the unimportant tomb of
Shékh Zaldl we have one of the ﬁnest *Views of the city of the dead.

We may also proceed from S. to N. through the Bdb el-Atabeg (el-
Attdba) or the Bath el-Wezz‘r, both of which are to the N. of the citadel.
In this case we cross the small cemetery of Kardfet Bdb el- Wezir and ﬁrst

reach the Tomb Mosque of Kent Bey. We ﬁnish our inspection with the
N. group of tombs (see below) and return to the town by the Bdb en—Nasr.

The N.E. group of these mausolea consists of the Tomb of Sultan
el—Ght’iri (p. 47), a cube surmounted by a stilted dome, and the
tomb—mosques of Sultan el-Ashrdf. with a handsome minaret, and

