388 Route 37. OMDURMAN.

inhabited by natives, and an old fort which offered a desperate
resistance to the dervishes in 1885.

The non-European business-part of Khartﬁm is restricted to the
portion of the town lying back from the river. This is intersected
by three long streets running parallel with the river, viz. Kitchener
Avenue, Cremer Avenue, and Abbas Avenue, the last of which has
just been begun. Thousands of dervishes, including representatives
of the most diverse tribes, though the Bagara are most numerous,
are now engaged in the work of rebuilding the town. The Roman
Catholic Church may still be recognized among the ruins.

The TREES and PLANTS that occur in the private and public gardens
at Khartﬁm nearly all belong to the Sudanese ﬂora, with the conspicuous
exception of the date-palm. Among them the following may be Specially
mentioned: the curious Sudanese Balaenz'tes [Egyptiaca or soap-tree (Arab.
el-heglig), the bark of which exudes a fatty substancc and is used as a
substitute for soap; the Salvadora Persian (Arab. ebarak), the mustard-
tree of the Bible; and the saccharine but poisonous Cullatrapz‘s pracera
(Arab. el-ushar), a large-leaved Asclepiadea. Threc specimens of the
gigantic Adansania digitam, baobab, or monkey-bread-tree (Arab. el—homr),
may be observed in the town (one to the N. of the ruined Roman Catholic
Church). There are also several indie-rubber trees, Parkinsunias, Sesbanias,
and coffee-plants. — AGRICULTURE is carried on by the Nubian fellihin in the
primitive manner of the Dongolese. Without plough or harrow, but none
the less industriously (p. liv). Their sakiyehs, or water-wheels (p. IV)
are sometimes 25 ft. in diameter, and are worked by zebus. Wooden
posts are occasionally placed beside these wheels in such a way as to
form a kind of sun-dial, by which the honrs of labour are regulated. The
chief crop is Andrapogon Sorghum, the staple food of the country, but
sweet potatoes (Ipomoea Batatas; Arab. hem-bay), Maize (recently introduced),
and the Sudanese sugar-cane (Andrapﬁgan Zaccharatnm; Arab. el-ankolib)
are also cultivated. The last-named ripens between February and May.

Communication between Khartﬁm and Omdurman is maintained
by a steamboat leaving the Palace landing-place once every morning
(fare 5 pias.). At other times a rowing-boat must be hired at the
R68 Khartnm, the promontory between the two arms of the Nile.
Owing to the considerable distances to be traversed at Omdurman,
the traveller is recommended to hire a donkey on arrival.

The great military camp of Omdurman was founded in 1883—84
by the Mahdi Mohammed Ahmed, and after his death in 1885, it
was the residence of the Khalifa Abdullahi Ta'ishi for 14 years, dur-
ing which it became the scene of the most atrocious cruelties and
the most extravagant orgies. It extends for about 31/2 M. along the
left bank of the united Nile, and has room for upwards of 100,000
inhabitants. The name is said to be derived from an old woman,
who once spent a solitary existence here. The S. part is the 0mm
ed-Durmdn proper. The central part, including the holy buildings
and the walled inner town inhabited by the Bagara tribe, to whom
Abdullahi belonged, is called by the natives El—Baga, i.e. ‘the (holy)
place’, a name always given to the wandering headquarters of the
Mahdists. To the N. is the Haw-ct el-Nust’im or el—Mesihz‘n, the
Christian quarter, inhabited by Abyssinians, Copts, and between
one and two hundred Greeks.

