282 Route 24. THEBES (w. BANK). 5. Temple of

(on a smaller scale). Rear Wall : Makeré between Hathor and Ammon,
who holds the hieroglyph for ‘life’ before her face. Above the
entrances to the recesses (P1. t, u), Makeré and Thutmosis offer
milk and wine to Hathor.

We return hence to the Central Court and ascend the inclined
approach which brings us ﬁrst to a much ruined TERRACE, the roof
of which was borne by a double row of pillars and sixteen-sided
columns. A granite doorway here gives access to the ——

Upper Court. The reliefs of a festive procession which adorned
this hall have suffered severely at the hands of the Coptic monks.
Turning sharp to the right (N.), we reach a door (P1. :11) admitting
to a VESTIBULE, which had three sixteen-sided columns. Opposite
the door is a small Recess (Pl. y), with representations of Queen
Makeré in good preservation.

Rear Wall of the recess: Makere (erased) before Ammon. Side Walls:
Makere seated at table, with the priest En-metf in front of her. The ﬁgure

of the Queen is uninjured, contrary to the nsual practice; but the priest’s
ﬁgure was defaced by Amenophis IV.

To the left of the vestibule we enter an open Court, in which is
an *Altar, approached by ten steps, and dedicated by Makere to
the sun-god Re—Harmachis. It is one of the very few altars that have
come down to us from Egyptian antiquity on their original sites.
In the W. wall of this court is a small recess, 5-6 ft. in height, with
sacriﬁcial scenes on the walls. The ﬁgure of Makeré receiving the
offerings has been scratched out.

A door in the N. wall of this court admits to a Chapel, compris-
ing two chambers, the ceilings of which, decorated with yellow
stars on a blue ground, are vaulted in the pointed style. With a
few unimportant exceptions the reliefs on the walls have been care—
fully chiselled away by Thutmosis III. and Amenophis IV. On the
side-walls of the ‘Ist Chamber (Pl. D) Makere offers sacriﬁces to var-
ious deities, mainly deities of the dead, such as Anubis, Sokaris,
Osiris, Eme-wet, and also to Ammon. Above a bench against the
end-wall is a representation of Makere and Thutmosis 1. before the
fetish of Eme-wet. 2nd Chamber. On the right wall: Thutmosis I.
(originally Makerc) and his mother Senyseneb (with ﬁgures unin-
jured), sacriﬁcing to Ammon. On the left wall: Makere and her
mother Ahmes sacriﬁcing to Ammon. On the end-wall: Makere and
Anubis.

On the S. side of the upper court are several chambers now in
ruins, and a well-preserved SACRIFICIAL HALL, with a vaulted roof,
which was used for the cult of the manes of Makeré and is adorned
with reliefs.

To the right and left of the entrance: slaughter and cutting up of the
sacriﬁcial beasts. On the side-walls are shown three rows of priests and
ofﬁcials bringing sacriﬁcial gifts to Makere, and above are three rows of

sacriﬁcial objects of various kinds. Maker‘é herself (effaced) is seated to
the right (left on the other wall), with a list of the offerings before her,

