Io Assit‘tl. TELL EL—’AMAIINA. 18. Roule. 207

ring offerings to the royal consorts, who are accompanied by four prin-
esses. 0n the Left Wall, at the top, to the left, appears the temple of the
un, with the king praying at an altar in the forercourt. — There is a room
eyoml with four columns, and the entrance to the recess which held the
tatue of the deceased (now chiselled away)

The S. Group of Tombs are situated about 3 M. due S., in the
ow spurs of the Gebel Abu Hasdr. Eighteen have been opened
keeper, see p. 203).

Farthest to the N. is TOMB 8, the grave of Tutu.

On the Door Posts the deceased is represented praying, while his name
nd titles are inscribed above. ln the Doorway, to the left, are the king
.nd queen sacriﬁcing to the sun; below, the deceased kneels in prayer.
‘0 the left is the deceased praying. The MAIN CHAMBER had its ceiling
iriginally supported by twelve columns arranged in two rows (eight still
tend); the columns in the rear row are united by railings, and between
he last pair is a semi-portal, such as occurs elsewhere only in Ptolemaic
uuildings. A ﬂight of steps on the left leads to the sarcophagus-chamber.
n the two short side-walls are small, partly unfinished recesses with
tatues. Entrance Wall. 0n the left the king and queen look on from the
vindow of the palace (represented on the left)7 while Tutu is being adorned
vith golden chains; beneath is the deceased in prayer. To the right the
-oyal pair are seated in the palace, with Tutu and other courtiers in
'espectful attitudes before them; beneath is the deceased in prayer. The
Dorridor is unﬁnished.

Immediately adjoining is TOMB 9, belonging to the military
:ommandcr Mahu, to the entrance of nhich a narrow ﬂight 0f steps
lcscends. In the Entrance, to the left, are the king (holding the
bieroglypic for ‘trnth’ towards the sun), the queen, and a princess,
with sistra, in presence of the sun, beneath kneels the deceased,
with the text of his prayer in<cribed in front of him. To the right
is the deceased in prayer. — We next enter the MAIN CHAMBER.
Entrance li'all. To the left is the king at the palace—window (merely
sketched-in black pigment). Left Wall. A tombstone rounded at
the top, to which two steps ascend, above are the royal pair,
below, the deceased in prayer. To the right is a scene that is
continued on the left half of the Rear Wall, representing men
kneeling in prayer in front of the temple of the. sun, among whom,
at the head of the lowest row, is the deceaSed. At the top of the
remaining part of the rear—wall appears the king and queen, driv—
ing from the palace, with out—runners in advance; below, we see
them returning. Right Wall. A door-shaped tombstone. Entrance
Wall (right half). 1n the lowest row we see Mahu setting out in
his chariot, to the left, and to the right, Mahu bringing captives
to the \‘izior, who is accompanied by a retinue. In the second row
from the foot is Mahu leaning on a staff, with his vassals before
him; to the right, a chariot and soldiers running. The upper rows
are badly preserved. — The SECOND ROOM has no reliefs or paint-
ings. In the rear—wall is a door—shaped stele. To the right a wind—
ing staircase of 46 steps leads to a chamber, in which opens the
mummy—shaft.

Tours 10, of Epi, is unﬁnished. To the left, in the entrance, are the
king and queen offering two pictures to the sun, the king presenting two

