DOCTRINES OF EL-ISLAM. 1m

is for the most part rigorously observed, but prolonged repasts dur-
ing the night afford some compensation. Many shops and ofﬁces are
entirely closed during this month. As the Arabic year is lunar, and
therefore eleven days shorter than ours, the fast of Ramadan runs
through all the seasons in the course of thirty—three years, and its
observance is most severely felt in summer, when much suffering is
caused by thirst.

The PILGRIMAGE TO MECCA, which every Muslim is bound to
undertake once in his life, is also deserving of mention. Most of
the pilgrims now perform the greater part of the distance by water.
On approaching Mecca the pilgrims undress, laying aside even
their headgear, and put on aprons and a piece of cloth over the
left shoulder. They then perform the circuit of the Ka'ba, kiss
the black stone, hear the sermon 011 Mt. “Arafat near Mecca, pelt
Satan with stones in the valley of Mina, and conclude their pil-
grimage with a great sacriﬁcial feast. On the day when this takes
place at Mecca, sheep are slaughtered and a festival called the Great
Beiram (el-‘Zd el-kebir) observed throughout the Whole of the Moham-
medan countries. (The ‘Lesser Beiram’, Arab. el-‘Zd es-sughaiyar,
follows Ramadan.) The month of the pilgrimage is called Dhil-
higgeh (that ‘ofthe pilgrimage’). and forms the close of the Muslim
year.+ The conduct of the caravan, with the gifts presented to the
town of Mecca. the escort, and other items, costs the Egyptian govern—
ment more than 50,0001. annually. For an account of the feast in
connection with the pilgrimage, see p. lxxvii.

Most of the Arabic LITERATURE is connected with the Koran.
Commentaries were written at an early period to explain the ob-
scure passages in it, and there gradually sprang up a series of ex-
egetical writings dwelling with elaborate minuteness upon every
possible shade of interpretation. Grammar, too, was at ﬁrst studied
solely in connection with the Koran, and a prodigious mass of
legal literature was founded exclusively upon the sacred volume
(p. lxv). Of late years, however, some attempts have been made

1- MOHAMMEDAN CALENDAR. The Mohammedan era begins with July 16th
(1st Moharreml of the year 622 A. D., being the day of Mohammed‘s ﬂight
(Hegira) from Mecca to Medina (p. lxii). The Mohammedan year is purely
lunar and has no reference or relation to the sun; it contains 354 days,
or 355 in leap-years, eleven of which occur in each cycle of 30 years.
There are 12 months, the ﬁrst, third, etc., of which have 29 days each, the
second, fourth, etc., 30 days; these are named Moharrem, Safar, Rabi‘ el-
auwel, Rabi'el-dkhz'r, Gemdd el—auwel, Gemdd el-dkht'r, Regeb, Sha'bdn, Rama-
qldn, Shauwtil, Dhil-lci'deh, th‘l-{m‘gge/z.

In order approximately to convert a year of our era into one of the
Muslim era, subtract 622, divide the remainder by 33, and add the quotient
to the dividend. Conversely, a year of the Mohammedan era is converted
into one of the Christian era by dividing it by 33. subtracting the quotient
from it, and adding 622 to the remainder. On 20th April, 1901, began the
Muslim year 1319.

The Gregorian calendar was introduced into Egypt in 1875, but is
observed by government in the ﬁnance department only.

