PYRAMIDS OF Anusia. 8. Route. 129

Shobrcment. After about ‘1 hr. we have the large cemetery of Shobre-
ment on our right. A low mound of rubbish on the summit of the
desert-plateau marks the site of the stone-pyramid of Zdwiyet
el-‘Arydn. In 11/2 hr. we rcach the rubbish heaps of —

Abu Gurc‘ib, formerly also called the Pyramid of Righ, the explora-
tion of which was carried on in 1898-1901, on behalf of Berlin
Museum, by Drs. Borchardt and Schaefer. The building was a
Sanctuary of the Sun God, erected by King Ra-en-woser (5th Dyn.)
on the occasion of the jubilee of his accession.

The sanctuary stands upon an artiﬁcial platform and consists of an
uncovered court, 330 ft. long by 250 ft. broad, with its entrance on the
E. side, while in the posterior (W.) half of it rose the large Obelisk of the
Sun. From the entrance-gate a covered passage, ornamented with ﬁne
reliefs, led to the left along the E. and S. sides of the court, and then
turned to the right (N) to reach the obelisk. The obelisk itself has
totally vanished, but part of the platform of masonry on which it stood
is still extant; and the tap of this, reached by an internal staircase, com-
mands a ﬁne view. In the front half of the court was the place for
slaughtering the sacriﬁcial bulls; the channels or gutters in the pavement
empty themselves into nine alabaster basins (originally ten). In front of
the platform of the obelisk stands the altar, '19 ft. long, 18 ft. broad, and
4 ft. high, built of ﬁve massive blocks of alabaster. 0n the S. side of the
obelisk is a ruined chapel, which was embellished with admirable reliefs
(now partly in Cairo, partly in Berlin). 0n the N. side of the obelisk
was another sacriﬁcial court. The N. side of the court was ﬂanked by
treasure-houses, reached from the entrance-gate by a passage (to the right)
similar to that described above. —— The town connected with the sanctuary
lay in the valley to the E. of the hill.

The three largest Pyramids of Abusir, erected by kings of the
5th Dyn., stand close together about 3/4 M. to the S.W. of the sanc-
tuary ofAbu Gurab. The masonry of these monuments, having orig-
inally been constructed with no great care7 is now much damaged,
and their bases are covered with sand. The entrances are on the N.
sides, and the interior chambers are almost completely in ruins.
The northernmost of the pyramids belonged to King Sehuré, and
was connected by a still traceable path with a building (probably a
temple) situated in the plain. Its perpendicular height was 1631/2 ft.
(now 118 ft.), its sides were 2581/2 ft. (now 2171/4 ft.) in length,
and they were inclined at the angle of 51° 42’ 39". The central
pyramid, to the S. of the last, belonged to King Ra-en-woser
(5th Dyn.). The builder of the largest pyramid (sides 108, formerly
1201/2 yds.; perpendicular height 165, formerly 229 ft.), situated
a little to the S.W., was King Nefer-er—ke-TZ (5th Dyn.). The other
pyramids, some of which were certainly also sanctuaries of the sun,
are mere heaps of ruins, and one of them (to the S.W. of the largest)
seems never to have been completed.

A few paces to the 8.13. of the Pyramid of Sehure is the Mastaba
of Ptahshepses (5th Dyn.), excavated by De Morgan in 1893. It is
mostly covered up again; the locked chambers are opened by the
Ghafir of Abusir. We ﬁrst enter a large hell (not all accessible), the
roof of which is supported on twenty square pillars. Thence a door

BAEDEKER’s Egypt. 5th Ed. - 9

