346 Route 30. \foD1 IiAunixnfyr. Eastern Desert.

path, opposite the ruin of the Hydreuma, stands a rock of sandstone
with numerous grafﬁti in Greek, Coptic, Arabic, Himyaritic, and
Sinaitic characters.

At a distance of about 2hrs. from the Hydreuma the rocks close
in and form a winding pass or gateway named Mutralc es-Seldm. 0n
the Gebel Abu Ki‘ieh (‘father of the elbow’), the rock at the entrance
to the pass, are more grafﬁti, older than those at Kasr el-Benat;
one of them contains the name of the heretical king Amenophis IV.
We now approach the ﬁne rocky scenery through which the second
part of the Igost‘r route leads. In the distance, to the right, rise the
S. foot—hills of the Hammdmcit Mts., while nearer and in front are
the S.W. spurs. From this point onwards the rock-scenery is very
ﬁne. Even the imposing granite cliffs of the Shellal islands and
the quarries of Assuan pale before the rocky mass of the Hammamat.
The outliers of the range consist of a yellow sandstone, followed by
the red ‘Nubian’ sandstone, while the great central mass is comp-
osed of granite.

Beyond the Mutrak es-Selam the hills again diverge. Among
them, to the N. of the caravan-route, lies a second Roman station,
with a ﬁlled—in well. About ‘2 hrs. farther on the hills of reddish-
yellow sandstone give place to loftier and almost black hills of
breccia, through the valley of which, now wide and now narrow, the
caravan winds its way. Beginning with the black mountains is the
W541i Hammamﬁt, the Rehenu lalley of the Egyptians, who quar-
ried its hard dark stone tor statues and coiﬁns in the most ancient
times. In 1 hr. more we reach the EFT Hammamat, a well ‘16 ft. in
diameter, with a stone coping. Near the well are the remains of a
Roman wall, and five unﬁnished sarcophagi, some completely shat—
tered. The quarries contain numerous Egyptian inscriptions. The
earliest expedition to Hammamat of which we have any knowledge
took place in the reign of King Essé (5th Dy11.). At a later period,
especially under the Middle Empire, the quarries were diligently
worked, and even under the New Empire they were in operation.
We hear of a great undertaking under Ramses IV. for the purpose
ot‘ procuring blocks for the temple of A mmon at Thebes, in which
no fewer than 8368 workmen and soldiers were employed. The
quarries were worked under Darius, Xerxes, and Artaxerxes also.

Just beyond the quarries the route turns from the NE. to the
S. and passes the ruins of el-Fawdkhir, an old mining site. Those
who wish to continue their journey to the Red Sea have still two
short days’ marches ahead of them, the route leading through the
Wadi Ro’safa to the Blr el—Béda (BZr el-Inylis) and thence through
the dei Ambagi t0 —

Kosér or Kosseir, on the Arabian Gulf. Koser is now an unim-
portant town of about 1600 inhab., with a quay, a wooden mole
400 ft. long, two mosques, several bazaars, government buildings,
and a large grain-magazine, belonging to the Egyptian government.

