28 Route 4. CAIRO. Physicians.

animals are to be found in great numbers at all the most frequented points;
at night in front of the cafes: and the stranger who wishes to hire a
donkey is sometimes well-nigh overwhelmed by the charge of light cavalry
to meet his wishes. The donkey-boys of Cairo (preferable to older drivers)
often possess a considerable fund of humour, and their good spirits react
upon their donkeys. The traveller should sternly repress the ﬁrst symp-
tom of the usual cruel goading of the animals to quicken their pace.
Galloping is forbidden Within the town. The bakshish should be propor-
tionate to the quality of the donkey and the behaviour of the donkey-boy.

Dragomans (comp. p. xxii). Only travellers who are pressed for time
require a cicerone. The best (5-8 fr. per day) are to be had at the hotels,
where also a list of the guides licensed by the police may be seen. If,
however, the traveller knows a few words of Arabic, and is not in a
hurry, he will soon ﬁnd his way through every part of the city and the
environs with the aid of his donkey-boy alone.

Cycles may be hired from Marina &' Co., Shari'a Kasr en-Nil (Rond-
Point Suarés).

d. Physicians. Chemists. Hospitals. Baths. Hairdressers.

Physicians. English: Dr. Keatinge; Dr. Milton; Dr. Murison; Dr. Sand-
with; Dr. Madden. German: Dr. oon Becker; Dr. Engel; Dr. Hess; Dr. Am-
ster; Dr. Wildt. Dr. Commas—Pasha, a Greek, who has studied in Ger-
many; Dr. Ambron (Italian); Dr. Hag/man (Hungarian)-7 Dr. Pﬁster (Swiss);
Dr. Eid (Belgian). —— Ocnlists: Dr. K. Scott (English); Dr. Fischer,- Dr. Lan-
sing; Dr. non Herﬁ’; Dr. Appel; Dr. non Schlitz. —— Aurists: Dr. oon Hebert-
!anz; Dr. Speyer. Throat and Nose Specialists: Dr. Beddoe; Dr. Meyer.
— Skin Diseases: Dr. Adam Schenber. — Orthopaedists: Dr. Kahleyrs;
Dr. Conrath. — Dentists: Mr. Waller. English; Mr. Faber, American;
Dr. Elsner, Dr. non Hnenersdorﬁ’, Dr. Fellner, all German—«The addresses
may be obtained at the hotels and at Diemer‘s (see below).

Chemists (high charges). German (2' English Dispensary, opposite the
Shari‘a el-Bawaki 11-, Pharmacie Anglo -Américaine (Dr. J. Kilppers), Stephen-
son :1: 00., both in the Place de l’Opera~7 Myrialaki, in the Halim Build:
ings, near Shepheard's Hotel, Nardi Apotheke (German), in the Muski,
Dncros (French), Shﬁri’a ez-Zaptiyeh; Pharmacie Ccntrale, Shari'a Clot-Bey.

Hospitals. German and English Victoria Hospital (Pl. A, 3), Shﬁri‘a Dér
el-Benat, well ﬁtted up, and managed by German Deaconesses, under the
superintendence of Dr. Murison and Dr. Wildt. —— The European Hospital
(physician, Dr. Adamidi), in the ‘Abbasiyeh, is admirably ﬁtted up, and
under thc supervision of the consuls.’ The patients are attended by sisters
of mcrcy. The charges are 6—12 fr. per day, poor patients at lower rates.
— The Austrian Hospital, in the ‘Abbasiyeh, is managed by Dr. won Becker.
—— The large {fasr elJAia (P1. A, 7), an Arab hospital with a school of
medicine (p. 41), is under the superintendence of Dr. Keminye.

Baths (comp. p. xxiv). European Baths at the hotels, and in the new
hath-house (also hydropathic, etc.) in the Halim Buildings. near Shepheard’s
Hotel (Pl. B, 3). The swimming bath at the Mena House Hotel (p. 25) is also
available for the public. The Arab Baths are scarcely suitable_for Europeans.

Hairdressers in the European style abound in the frequented quarters
of the town; e.g. under the colonnades opposite Shepheard‘s Hotel. Their
charges are usually high. — Arabian Barbers (not for Europeans), see p. 37.

 

e. Shops.

Booksellers and Stationers. Diemer (Librairie Internationale), at Shep~
heard‘s Hotel (also photographs, Arabic literature); G. G. Zacharia Jr Cit,
Shari‘a Kamelg The Tourist (Livadas), opposite Shepheard‘s; Librairie Cen-
h'ale (Barbier), next the Hotel Métropole. — British it Foreign Bible Socl'ely,
Shari‘a Moh amined ‘Ali. -— Stationery, visiting cards, etc. Boehme it‘d/[(18,713
in the Ezbekiyvh; Diemer, see above-, Hohl, in the building of the Credit
Lyonnais (p. 96). — Arabian Booksellers, see p. 43.

Photographs. [leg/man (r 00. (Dittrich), beside Shepheards Hotel (depot
for Sebnh"s photographs of Egyptian Scenery and monuments); studio in

