THE SUDAN. 36. Route. 381

Violent sand-storms are frequent from June to August, followed
by deluges of rain, which are apt to cause fever. — Those who do
not.travel in the tourist-trains and who intend to visit other points
beSIdeS Khartum should provide themselves with camp-beds and
bedding, mosquito-nets, ﬁlters7 cooking utensils, provisions, qui—
nine, etc. A servant is quite indispensable, and may be obtained
in Assuan. — Fire—arms may not be carried without a gun-licence
(gull 50 pias., revolver 25 pias), to be obtained at the mudiriyeh at
the camp at Wadi Halfa (p. 377). The possession of military (Le.
non-sporting) ammunition requires a special licence.

. MEANs or TRAVEL. (lutside the ordinary tourist-track, the traveller
is dependent upon Camels and Sailing Boats, for both of which he has to
prOVide equipment: for the former a saddle, saddle-bags, and water-skins;
tor the latter an awning. No package intended to be carried by a camel
should weigh more than 9501135., and each package should have a pendant
0f the same Weight. All arrangements should be made with the aid of
the Ma'mtlr, or head of the sub-district, and the contract should be signed
in his presence. — It is advisable to pitch the tent for a few days at Widi
Halfa, so as to have opportunity of becoming accustomed to tent-life.
Visitors to Khartﬁin usually feel languid and indolent for the ﬁrst few
days of their stay, and are apt to suffer from swollen glands.

SPORT. Excellent shooting may be enjoyed in the Sudan, subject to
the Wild Animals Preservation Ordinance issued in 1900. Details may be
learned from “Notes for Travellers and Sportsmen in the Sudan" (1901',
price ls. or 5 pias.) and from the ofﬁcial Suddn Gazzlle (p. 385), to be ob-
tained from Angelo H. Capato, agent at wadi Halfa. An ordinary Shooting
Licence costs DEE?) per annum; the right to shoot buffaloes, elephants,
hippopotami, and various large antelopes costs fE 25 per annum, besides
a Special Fee for each animal bagged. Fowling is free. Rhinoceroses,
giraffes, zebras, Wild asses, and elands may not be hunted within the Sudan.

. Fon DEALINGS wr’m THE NATIVES a supply of appropriate articles for
gifts and barter (beads, brass bracelets, etc.) is requisite. A friendly but
ﬁrm demeanour should be adopted, though care should be taken not to
arouse their easily excited religious fanaticism. The Nubian tribes are
inclined to be suspicious and malicious, but they are cowardly and rarely
venture upon open hostility. The black Nuba and Bantu tribes are childish,
lazy, and untrustworthy.

LITERATURE. The traveller may farther consult: Count van Gleichen‘s
Handbook of the Sudan (2 vols. ; London, 1898); R. Slalin‘s Fire and Sword
in the Sudan (London, 1596), Sleevens‘s With Kitchener to Khartﬁm (Lon-
don; 1898); Wingate‘s Mahdiism and the Egyptian Sudan (London; 1900)-7
and Sir C. Wilson’s From Korti to Kharti‘im (London, 1885). All these may
be obtained in Cairo. The Sudan Almanack (ls. or 5 pias.) will be on sale
in and after 1902.

36. From Wédi Halfa to Khartﬁm.

575 M. SUDAN MILiTAnY RAILWAY. A Train de Lure, with dust»proof
slee ing and dining cars, runs twice a week from VYadi Halfa to Khartﬁm
in -35 hrs. (fare fE 10; return»fare fE 16; meals 7O pias per day).
Return-tickets are valid only by the same train, which returns from
Khartum three days after its arrival. — An Ordinary Train performs the
journey daily in 40—50 hrs. (becoming a Mail Train on Tues. and Frid. on
the arrival of the steamboats frrm Assuan). The ‘ﬁrst-class’ fare is DEE 2.
65L pias., for which the traveller has at his dispL-sal a. roomy, eight»vvheeled
baggage.truck, in which he may erect his bed and cooking apparatus.
Provisions should be taken from Wi‘idi Halfa, and also water and water-
coolers (sir), as the crowd at the watering-stations is usually very great.

