xiv EQUIPMENT.

ladies, will also require the services of a guide, or ‘dragoman’, as
they prefer to style themselves (5—103. per day).

MONEY. A small sum of money for the early part of the journey
may be taken in English or French gold, or in English banknotes
(these usually at a discount of 1/4-1 per cent), but large sums should
always be in the form of circular notes. These notes, which if kept
separate from the ‘letter of indication’ cannot be cashed by a thief
or a dishonest ﬁnder, are issued by the principal London banks
and by Messrs. Thos. Cook & Son. Fresh supplies may be forwarded
from England by post-ofﬁce order, in sums not exceeding 500 fr.
European bankers in Alexandria and Cairo, see pp. 6, 26.

EQUIPMENT. For all ordinary purposes a couple of light tweed
suits, a few ﬂannel and soft cotton shirts, a supply of thin woollen
socks, one pair of light and easy boots, one of shoes, and one of
slippers, a moderately Warm ulster or long travelling cloak, a pith—
helmet and a soft felt hat, together with the most necessary articles
of the toilet, will amply sufﬁce. It is advisable, for the prevention
of colds and chills, to wear a woollen fabric next the skin; but
light underclothing, with an Oxford shirt, will be found more
suitable to the climate than a heavy ﬂannel shirt. Evening dress is
usually worn at dinner at the principal hotels. A light silken (or
muslin) cloth tied round the hat and allowed to fall over the back
of the neck and ears is an indispensable protection against the sun.
In prolonged riding tours a sun—shade is a fatiguing encumbrance.
All articles should be new and strongly made, as it is often difﬁcult
to get repairs properly executed in Egypt. Few travellers walk in
Egypt, except for very short distances, but sportsmen should add a
stout pair of waterproof shooting-boots to their equipment.

Among the most important extras to be brought from Eur0pe are a
drinking cup of leather or metal, a ﬂask7 a strong pocket-knife, a thermo-
meter, a pocket-compass of medium size7 and an acetylene lamp for light-
ing caverns and dark chambers. -—- Photographic materials, dry-plates,
ﬁlms, etc., can be obtained in Cairo, but it is preferable to bring a. good
stock carefully packed from home, taking care to attend the customs
examination in person. The plates should not be more than 8 by 10 inches
at the largest.

COMPANIONS. The traveller can hardly be recommended to start
alone for a tour in a country whose customs and language are so
entirely different from his own. Travelling as a member of a party
is, moreover, much less expensive than travelling alone, many of
the [items being the same for a single traveller as for several to—
gether. — In spring and autumn TOURIST PARTIES are organized for
a visit to Egypt and the East by the tourist-agents Messrs. Thos.
Cook &Son (Ludgate Circus, London) and Messrs. Henry Gaze &Sons
(53 Queen Victoria St., London), programmes of which, with full
information, may be obtained on application. Travellers who join
such parties are enabled to inspect the principal points of interest
with the minimum expenditure of time and trouble, but must

