340 Route 29. PHIL 213. Temple

Pylon I and on the N. by Pylon II. On the E. and W. are ediﬁces,
each with a colonnade on the side next the court. On the W. (left)
is the BIRTH House, dedicated to Hathor-Isis and to the memory of
the birth of her son Horus. It is also reached by a doorway in the
W. tower of Pylon I (see p. 339); on the back of. the pylon is a relief
of four priests carrying the boat of Isis, preceded by the king offer-

ing incense.

The Birth House is surrounded on all four sides by colonnades, the
columns of which have ﬂoral capitals surmouuted by Hathor-capitals. The
columns 011 the W. side are unﬁnished. The walls, the columns, and the
screen-walls between the columns are adorned with the conventional re-
liefs and inscriptions, mostly dating from Euergetes lI., Neos Dionysus,
Augustus, and Tiberius. Specially noteworthy is the relief (Pl. b), in the
central row, to the left: Buto, goddess of the North, playing the harp
before the youthful Horus (nude, wearing the double crown) and his mother
Isis, who Sits behind him: behind Buto is Augustus bearing a shallow vase.
The cow among marsh-plants, depicted above the vase, is to be taken as
representing the ornamentation within it. To the left of this scene appears
the Pharaoh opening the chapel, in which is seated I<is suckling Horus.
In the upper row, at Pl. 6, are two scientiticially important Inscmptions of
Epiphanes, unfortunately injured by reliefs atterwards carved over them
by Neos Dionysus. These inscriptions are in hieroglyphics and the demotic
character. One of them is a duplicate (wanting the Greek text) of the
inscription on the Rosetta Stone (p. 20).

The INTERIOR 0f the temple is of little interest. On passing through
the Mom Entrance (Pl. d), behind the great pylon, we enter a columned
Vestibule, the mural reliefs in which show Tiberius offering gifts to the
gods. A door, above which is a window between four heads of Hathor
(one now wanting), leads hence to three rooms lying one behind the other
(Pl. A, B, 0). Room A, on the wall of which are demotic inscriptions,
has no reliefs. Room 0 has three rows of reliefs. At the foot of the
rear-wall: Isis giving birth to Horus in the marshes; Ammon and Thout
accompany her, behind Amnion are the goddess of the North and the god
‘Wisdom’, behind Thout the goddess of the South and the god ‘Reason‘. On
the left wall: a goddess offering her breast to the child Horus, who stands;
Euergetes II. handing two mirrors to Hathor, who places her hands in
blessiug on the head of the child Horus.

The EAST BUILDING, opposite the Birth House, was occupied by
the priests, partly for scientiﬁc purposes. The colonnade of ten plant—
columns is very elegant. The reliefs and inscriptions date from Neos
Dionysos, the votive inscription on the architrave from Euergetes II.

The First Room (Pl. 6) is noteworthy, as from it a staircase ascends
to a larger apartment in the upper story and thence to the roof of the

colonnade. — In the Third Room (Pl. 9) are rude reliefs of men (on the
left wall), with the related inscriptions in Ethiopian cursive characters
(p. oix). —- The Fifth Room (Pl. 2) was the library. The comparatively

high reliefs exhibit Tiberius before different gods. 0n the left wall as we
enter: Th'tut, god of wisdom, between Maat, goddess of truth (with a
palette), and the lion- headed Tefnut, behind whom stands Sefkhetebui,
goddess of writing. To the left is a recess (for books), with a seated ibis
above it. —- The Sixth Room (Pl. It) shows Tiberius before the Egyptian
gods, on the walls to the right and left. A door in the exterior brick-
wall here opens on the main street of the ruined Coptic town (p. 3’43).
There is another door on the right.

At the N. end of the colonnade is a Door (Pl. l), approached by

several steps, opening upon the inner passage round the temple.
The reliefs upon this show Neos Dionysos' before the gods.

