lxxxviii HISTORY.

2117-222.
238.

222 205 .

205-181.

193.

181.
181—146.

171 .

70-163.

163.
163-116.

146

 

and his successors great elephant—hunts took place on the
Somali coast. The elephants were brought to Egypt and
trained for military purposes.

Ptolemy III. Euergetes married Berem’ce of Cyrene. He
temporarily conquered the empire of the Seleucides in
Asia Minor. An unsuccessful attempt was made by the
Egyptian priests to reform the calendar by intercalating a.
day in every fourth year. The power of Egypt abroad was
now at its zenith.

Ptolemy IV. Philopator. Under the misgovernment of this
king and his successors the empire of the Ptolemies began
to totter. Ptolemy IV. defeated Antiochus the Great of
Syria, who had threatened the Egyptian frontier, at the
battle of Raphia, but concluded a dishonourable peace with
him. The king married his sister Arsino'é III. For nine-
teen years a series of native Pharaohs ruled at Thebes.

Ptolemy V. Epiphanes (p. civ) ascended the throne, when
ﬁve years of age, under the guardianship of Agathocles
and (Enanthe, the mother of the latter. In consequence
of a revolt at Alexandria his guardians were obliged to
resign their ofﬁce in favour of the Roman Senate. Advan-
tage of these dissensions was taken by Antiochus the Great
of Syria and Philip V. of Macedonia to invade the foreign
possessions of Egypt. The Roman Senate ceded leesyria
and Palestine to Antiochus, while Egypt continued to be
independent. Ptolemy married Cleopatra 1., daughter of
Antiochus. The internal affairs of the country fell into de-
plorable confusion; rebellion succeeded rebellion, and
anarchy prevailed everywhere.

Ptolemy V. was poisoned.

Ptolemy VI. Philometor, his son7 ascended the throne under
the guardianship of his mother Cleopatra. Onias was per-
mitted by the king to build a Jewish temple at Tell el-
Yehﬁdiyeh (p. 156).

Battle of Pelusium. Philometor was taken prisoner, and
Memphis captured, by Antiochus IV. of Syria. The kings
brother —

Ptolemy IX. (Physkon), who at ﬁrst also bore the surname
Philometor, was summoned to the throne by the Alexan-
drians.

Ptolemy VI. and

Ptolemy IX. and with them also their sister CleOpat'ra,

wife of Philometor.
The brothers again quarrelled. Philometor ﬂed to Rome, was

reinstated by the Roman Senate, and thenceforth reigned
alone, While the younger brother became King of Cyrene.

} reignedjointly, having become reconciled,

. After the death of Philometor he was succeeded by his son,

