DAHsnI‘JR. 9. Route 153

If time permit, the traveller may now proceed to the S. Group
of Salclcdra, a ride of 11/4 hr. to the S. from Mariette’s House. We
pass near a space of ground about 440 yds. square, enclosed by
broad and massive, but now very dilapidated walls on the E., N.,
and W. sides, while the S. side is bounded by the natural hills of
the desert.—The route now leads straight to the Mastaba el-Fir'aun,
the most interesting monument in the S. group. To the left are
the dilapidated Pyramids of Pepi]. and Merenre and a pyramid
called by the Arabs Harem esh-Showwdf. On the N.W. side of the
Mastaba el—Fir‘aun is the Pyramid of Pepi II. All these pyramids
(now inaccessible) are constructed and adorned exactly in the
same manner as that of King Onnos (p. 134). The Mapgaba el-
Fir'aun resembles in its shape some of the mastabas of the Middle
Empire. The passages in the interior resemble those in the pyr-
amids of Onnos and his successors, so that this monument may
probably enough he a king’s grave, as its name implies (‘grave of
Pharaoh’). The top, which is easily reached, commands a ﬁne view.

011 the S. and E. slopes of the plateau of Sakhara are numerous
Rock Tombs. They are far simpler than the mastabas both in point
of construction and of internal decoration.

About 11/2 M. to the S. of the Mastaba el-Fir‘aun lie the Necropolis and
Pyramids of Dahshur. Here risc two large pyramids and a smaller one of
limestone, and two of brick (the ‘Black Pyramids‘), together with remains
of others, all of which are at a considerable distance from each other.
The N. Brick Pyramid, which was once covered with slabs of stone, is
probably the tomb of King Usertesen 111. (12th Dyn.). The length of
the side at the base is 345 ft., while the height is now only about 90 ft.
To the N. of this pyramid, but within the girdle-wall that formerly
enclosed it, are two subterranean galleries with tomb-chambers in
which female members of the royal family were interred. In the lower
of these galleries were found the jewels of the princesses Sit-Hathor and
Merit (now in the Gizeh Museum, p. 82). — At the E. base of the pyramid
is a house belonging to the Service des Antiquités, in which the night may
be spent by permission previously obtained at the Museum in Gizeh.

To the S.W. of the N. Brick Pyramid lies a larger Stone Pyramid.
This is still 326 ft. in height and 234 yds. in width, being nearly as large
as the Great Pyramid of Gizeh, and in its solitude presents a very imposing
appearance, even to an accustomed eye. It was probably (like the Pyr-
amid of Meidﬁm, p. 192) built by Snofru, and is thus the most ancient
royal tomb in the form of a pyramid.

To the E. and S. are remains of several other pyramids. Still farther
to the S. rises a pyramid of peculiar form, sometimes called the Blamed
Pyramid, the lower part rising at an angle of 54° 41'. while the sides of
the apex form an angle of 42° 59'. This pyramid is 2061/2 yds. square and
321 ft. in height. The exterior coating is in good preservation. The
interior was explored as early as the year 1660 by an English traveller
named Melton. In 1860 M. Le Brun found a small chamber in the interior.
No clue to the name of the builder has been discovered.

To the E. of the Blunted Pyramid and a few kilometres to the S. of
the N. Brick Pyramid, not far from the village of llIenshiyeh, which lies
on the edge of the desert to the N. of Dahshﬁr, rises the S. Brio]: Pyramid.
This, which was originally covered with limestone slabs, was perhaps
built by King Amenemhet 111. (12th Dyn.). To the N. of it, but enclosed
by the former girdle-wall. are the graves of King Hor and Princess Neb-
hetepti-khrot (p.82). Between the N. and S. Brick Pyramids is the ruined
Pyramid of Amenemhit 1]. (12th Dyn.).

