PrnAMms or 012511. 8. Route. 113

side are the village of Gtzeh (p. 77) and the station of the same
name 011 the Upper Egyptian railway. The road makes a curve,
crosses the railway (tramway-station), and then leads straight towards
the Pyramids, Which are still nearly 5 M. distant. Prettily situated
in a group of trees to the right of the road is the tomb of a shékh.
011 the left lie the huts of two fellahin villages, El- Talbiyeh and
El—Kém el—Aswad (tramway—station). The ﬁelds on each side are
intersected by canals and cuttings, containing more or less water
according to the season. Small White herons, erroneously supposed
to be ibises, and vultures with light and dark plumage are frequently
observed here. The huge angular forms of the Pyramids now loom
through the morning mist, and soon stand out in clear outlines,
with all the injuries they have sustained during the lapse of ages.

A few hundred yards before the road begins to ascend, it is pro—
tected against the encroachments of the sand by a wall 5ft. in
height. On the right are the extensive buildings of the Mena House
Hotel (p. 25); to the left is the terminus of the Electric Tramway.
The road winds up the steep N. slope of the plateau on which the
Pyramids stand. On an eminence in the desert to the right rises
the Ercmilage, the villa of the Italian Abbale-Pasha. To the left
is a Viccregal Kiosk (Pl. 3, p. 117).

Trcnsrs for the inspection of the Pyramids and other monuments
are sold in a Small Kiosk beside the viceregal kiosk, where a1 0 guides
(Beduins) are assigned to each party. For the ascent of the Great Pyramid
10 pias.; for a visit to the interior of the Pyramid, 10 pias.; visit to
the other objects of interest 5 pias. (but with the aid of our plan, the
ticket and guide for this last item may easily be dispensed with). For
the entire expedition, including the ascent of the Great Pyramid and the
visit to its interior, the charge is 20 pias. Bakshish is entirely optional,
though a gratuity of a few pias. is customary. But no attention should
be paid to the begging of the Beduins. and visitors are advised to have
nothing to do with the vendors of so- -called ‘antiquities (almost invariably
spurious, the fossil sea urchins or clypeasters offered here are said to be
found in a miocene deposit near Zitwiyet e1-‘Aryan, 21/4 M. to the S. of
the Sphinx).

The “Pyramids of Gizeh form one of ﬁve groups of pyramids
within the precincts of the Necropolis of the ancient capital city of
Memphis (p. 131) which stand 011 the margin of the plateau of the
Libyan desert along a line about 20M. in length. Southwards follow
the groups of Zawzyel el—‘Aryan a11dAbuslr(p.129),Salckam(p. 133),
and Dahshm [p 153). The ﬁfth group, that of Abu Roash (p.128),
lies to the N. of the Pyramids of G1zeh. The Arab word for a
pyramid is haram (pl. ahrc‘lm).

The Pyramids of Gizeh rank among the oldest monuments of
human industry, and their colossal proportions extort from us to—
day the same astonishment that was felt in antiquity by Greek
and Roman travellers. We marvel not only at the technical know-
ledge and ability of the Egyptians, but also at the might of their
kings, who must have had absolute control over the labour of
thousands of their subjects, in order to be able to rear such monu-

BAEDEKER’s Egypt. 5th Ed. 8

