to Abu—Simbel. KASR IBRiM. 33. Route. 369

the sultan Selim (p. xcviii) placed a garrison of Bosnians here. Their de-
scendants were defeated in l811 by the ﬂeeing Mainelukes, but in the
same year Ibrahim Pasha (p. xcix) captured and destroyed the fortress.

Paths ascend both 011 the N. and S. to the only Gate of the for-
treSS, which lies on the N. side. This is embellished with the
Egyptian hollow cornice and the sun-disk. The Girdle Wall of rough
stones is supported on the S. side by a substructure of carefully
hewn blocks. The interior of the fortress is occupied by a confused
group of houses, built of rough stones, but incorporating fragments
of older buildings, such as portions of columns used for thresholds.
Two of the larger buildings are still in good preservation, viz. a
Byzantine Church in the middle and an Egyptian Temple, with a
pylon, in the N.W. corner. The church was afterwards used as a
mosque, but a dedicatory cross is still to be seen on one of the col-
umns. The temple contains no inscriptions. A steep ﬂight of steps
descends on the W. side to the river. The view from the castle-hill is
very ﬁne; to the E. rise hills crowned with the tombs of shékhs, while
the Nile ﬂows below; to the W. lies the tawny desert, contrasting
with the verdant ﬁelds and groves and the grey houses of Anibeh.

Close to the S. slope of the hill lie the ruins of a small Toun, sur-
rounded by a wall. Farther up the valley is a large Cemetery, with simple
Christian graves and some brick tombs on a more ambitious scale. There
is a similar cemetery in the \alley to the N. of the castle.

In the steep W. slope of the castle-hill are ﬁve Memorial Re-
cesses, of the Middle Empire. These now lie at some height above
the river—bank and some are very difﬁcult of access, but originally
they vsere reached by means of steps from a path skirting the riv er
at a higher level than the present path. The ﬁrst (on the S.) was
constructed in the reign of Thutmosis 111. by Nehi, governor of
Ethiopia. The second was constructed in the reign of Ramses II.
by Set-aw, governor of Ethiopia, “110 is represented in it with his
ofﬁcials. The third chapel dates from the joint reign of Thut—
mosis III. and Hatshepsowet, but the name of the latter is every—
where defaced. Both rulers, each beside a deity, are represented
on the rear-wall. The fourth chapel, the most important, belongs
to Amenophis II. On the right side-wall the king receives tribute
of all kinds (including a panther) from two ofﬁcials. On the left
wall the king appears conducted by Horus, lord of Beheni (\Vadi
Halfa), to a row of gods. In a niche in the back-wall is the statue
of the king, embraced by Horus of Mem (on the right) and by Satet
(on the left). —— The ﬁfth recess has no sculptures.

On a steep cliﬂ' facing the river, to the S. of Kasr Ibrim, are a
Relief and Inscription of Set/ms 1., commemorating a \ictory. beside
it are grafﬁti of elephants, giraffes, etc.

The mountains presently retire, leaving room for a strip of culti—
vated land. Numerous Sdlciyehs or water—wheels are seen. — 30 M.
Gené‘neh (E.bank), 331/2 AI. Sliilbdlc (E. bank), opposite which is
Mas-mas. — 36 M. Toshlceh, on both banks. On the W. bank here,

BAnusan”s Egypt. 5th Ed. '24

