clviii BUILDINGS OF THE MOHAMMEDANS.

are also found amongst them Gram-Egyptian half-breeds, Romans,
people of Ethiopian descent, and a tolerably large number of Semites
(Jews and Phaenicians). For reasons which Ebers has more minutely
explained and which are not merely stylistic, the best of these paint—
ings cannot be more recent than the Ptolemaic period, although the
majority date from the second Christian century or even later. They
convey a high idea of the keen faculty of observations possessed by
the painters, and of a usually free and light touch in the use of the
pencil and paint—brush, which places these artists by the side of the
best masters of modern art. These portraits have, moreover, a pe-
culiar value in the history of art, as the only extant specimens of the
remarkable style of work known as Encaustic Painting (wax paint—
ing), which obtained effects not much inferior to those of modern
oil-painting, and far exceeded it in point of durability.

X. Buildings of the Mohammedans.

By Franz Pasha.

The Mohammedan style of architecture in the valley of the Nile
was founded upon the forms of art which the victorious Arabs
found in vogue among the Byzantines and the Copts, and upon those
of Persian art of the era of the Sassanides. The buildings in Egypt
exhibit a considerable variety coupled with'a certain ﬁnish of style,
but none of them dates back to the ﬁrst period of Islam dominion;
for the professors of the new religion were for centuries content
merely to adapt the religious ediﬁces of the conquered countries as
mosques. This was a process of little difﬁculty, for the ceremonial
requirements of the new religion were comparatively simple, and
it took place in all parts of the great empire of the Khalifs. From
casual references by the Arabian chroniclers we learn that the
earliest prayer-houses built by the Arabs were merely enclosed courts,
along the walls of which ran covered passages, supported by palm-
trunks, in order to shelter the worshippers from sun and rain.
Uostly mosques, with marble arcades, began to appear very gradually,
under the inﬂuence of the ancient ediﬁces and of the increasing
wealth ﬂowing from the military successes of the Mohammedans.
Columns from Greek and Roman temples were freely employed in
these later mosques, but the early—Egyptian columns were too
colossal to be used except occasionally as supports for domes or
mausolea or for the kiblas. This employment of ancient columns
in the mosques, frequently without any regard to harmony of style
or size, brings it about that uniformity in the architecture of the
arcades is observed only when the abacus is reached. No distinct
Arabian order of columns was thus ever developed in Egypt. Only
a few Arabian forms of capital, one a curious form of calyx-capital,
another including a wreath of stalactites as the transition between

