Shé‘lch'Abdel-Kmna. THEBES(W.BANK). ~24. Route. 291

network patterns and vine—tendrils; the latter also occur in the wall-
frieze. Above the door lie two jackals (Anubis); below and on the door-
posts are the usual prayers for the dead. On the left entrance-wall (e) the
deceased and his sister Meryt appear emerging from the tomb and seated
on abench. On the left side—wall (f) are depicted the funeral ceremonies,
With the deceased himself (left) looking on. On the rear-wall (g) the
deceased and his sister sit at a banquet, while priests offer the sacriﬁces
for the dead; farther to the right are the ships that take the Corpse to
Abydos (p. 218) and bring it back to the grave. On the right side—wall (h)
the deceased and Mel. t are seen in an arbour, praying to Osiris and Anubis;
1n the middle, Anubis by the bier of Osiris; other religious scenes and
texts; priest pourin the water of puriﬁcation over Sen—nofer and Meryt.
On the right 9"”ance—wall (i) the same couple are seen at a banquet, with u.
prlest sacr1ﬁc1ng_ The pillars also bear the same two ﬁgures.

To the right, above the tomb of Rekhmere, is No. 51, the Tomb
of Emunze, superintendent of the granaries under Thutmosis III..
and Amenophis 11. (now tilled up).

The representations in the vestibule are worth noticing. 0n the left
are the African tribes bringing in their tribute, consisting of gold, ivory,
apes, panther—skins, and the like. On the right is the tribute of the Asiatics,
jars, a carriage, a white and a brown horse, and various weapons. At
both ends of the vestibule were steles, of which only that on the right
has been preserved, containing a prayer to Re in the name of the deceased.
On the right—hand side of the long passage into the hill is a scene illustrat-
ing the chase of waterfowl.

To the right, close by, is *No. 36, the Tomb of Amenemheb, con-
sisting of a hall with pillars, a corridor, and side-chambers.

RooM A. The historical Inscription on the right rear-wall (b), painted
in blue on White stucco, and discovered by Prof. Ebers, is of special in-
terest. In it Amenemheb describes the part which he took in the Asiatic
campaigns of Thutmosis III., and gives exact infor—
mation of the length of that Pharaoh‘s reign, and
the accession of his successor Amenophis II. He
does not forget to record the honours which the
favour of his prince had heaped upon him. Below
this inscription are seen Syrians, in their peculiar
white garments with coloured borders, bringing
tribute. On the wall to the left of the entrance (at):
levying tr00ps. On the pillars, portraits of Amenem-
heb and his wife Baki. Over the two central pillars,
fowling-scenes. The tasteful designs on the ceiling
should be observed.

CORRIDOR (Pl. B). On the left wall (0) is Amen-
emheb, receiving vases, caskets, sandals, shields,
and other gifts. — LEFT SIDE CHAMBER (Pl. 0).
Funeral rites. —— RIGHT SIDE CHAMBER (Pl. D). On the left wall (d) is a
curious representation of an Egyptian party. There is an abundant pro-
vision of tood and drink. The servants in attendance carry ﬂowers on
their arms. The guests, two of them On easy chairs and three on stools. are
offered refreshments. Below, in the second row, the ladies are seated.
An attendant holds in each hand a staff wreathed and crowned with ﬂowers,
and all the lady-guests have blossoms in their hair and round their necks,
and hold lotus—ﬂowers in their hands. In the lowest row 13 a band of
music in full activity. It consists of two harpers, a man sittlng and a
woman standing, a ﬂute—player and a lute-player, both of them women
standing. On the rear-wall (e) are fowling-scenes. —— On the left wall.(f)
in the continuation of the CORRIDOR are representations of funeral rites
and sacriﬁcial scenes. On the right wall (9) is Amenemheb’s garden,_1n
the centre of which, surrounded by plants, is a p0nd with.ﬁsh.sW1mm1ng
in it. Flowers are beingr presented to the deceased and his Wife.

19*

 

 

