Southern Buildings. THEBES (E. BANK). 24. Route. 259

On the outside of the wall, behind P1. e, is a procession of priests
carrymg the sacred boats. Beside it is inscribed an ordinance of Harem-
heb, intended to restore order to the distracted state.

The reliefs on the W. Wall of the court, which also date from
Haremheb, are in poor preservation. .

The wings of Pylon X, the last pylon, forming the S. entrance
to the precincts of the great temple of Ammon, have collapsed, but
the central doorway is still standing. Haremheb was the builder of
this pylon also, for which he used the stones of a building raised
by Amenophis IV. in Karnak to his new deity (p. 203). The reliefs
on the doorway exhibit Haremheb sacriﬁcing and performing other
religious rites. — In front of the N. side of the pylon stand two head-
less statues of Ramses 11.; and before the S. side are the remains of
colossal statues of Amenophis III. (E) and Haremheb (W.), and
the lower part of a colossus of Osiris.

Beyond the pylon the E. Avenue ofSphinxes, erected by Harem—
heb, leads to the S. Temple Precincts.

To the E. of the avenue is a Chapel of Osiris-Plait (closed), with well-
preserved painted reliefs. The chapel was built by the Ethiopian Kings
Tanutamon and Taharka (25th Dyn.).

The avenue leads straight to a Gate, built by Philadelphus and
embellished with reliefs and long inscriptions, in the N. side of a
girdle—wall enclosing the temple of Mut. Thence we proceed amidst
ﬁgures ofrecumbent rams, sphinxes, and fragments of statues to the —

Temple of Mut, built by Amenophis 111., which has recently
been cleared of rubbish under the directions of Miss Benson, an
English lady.

A Gateway (P1. A) admits us to a large Court, in the middle of which
was a colonnade. Outside the gateway are several pillars with ﬁgures of
the god Bes. 0n the gateway are lengthy inscriptions of the Ptolemaic
period (hymns to Mut) and in the entrance is an inscription of Ramses 111.,
who restored the temple. The court contains several seated ﬁgures of the
lion-headed goddess Sekhmet, which were dedicated in this temple by
Amenophis 111. On several of these Sheshonk I. has placed his own name
in place of that of Amenophis. — Farther on is a second Colonnade, with
statues of Sekhmet and a colossal granite ﬁgure of Amenophis 111. —-
The inner rooms of the temple are in a very ruinous condition.

Behind the temple of Mut lies a Sacred Lake, in the shape of a
horseshoe. Farther to the W. are the remains of a small Temple
of Ramses III.

011 the W. Exterior Wall are some interesting representations of scenes
from the king‘s campaigns: 1 Battle in Syria; 2. Syrian captives brought
before the king; adjoining,‘heaps of hands cut off from the enemy are
being counted; 3. Battle with the Libyans; 4. Triumphal procession of
the king, and train of Libyan captives; 5. The king inspecting the captives;
6. Train of captives; 7. Dedication of the spoil to Ammon and his fellow
deities.

EXCURSION T0 MEDAMI‘JT, only to be undertaken when there is abun-
dance of time; 4—5 hrs. are necessary. The site is reached after 11/2 hr.’s
rapid riding. We proceed ﬁrst to the E. Sphinx-avenue of Karnak, where
the road diverges to the right, along a large embankment. It then turns

17*

