156 Route 11. TANIS.

About 7 M. to the S.E. of Ijelwan is the Wadi Gerraui, a desert ravine
running E. and W. between abrupt limestone cliffs. Dr. Schweinfurth
discovered here the remains of a. large Weir of masonry, probably erected
under the Early Empire to arrest the water ﬂowing down the ravine in
1-a‘~ny Winters and so to provide drinking-water for the workmen employed
in the alabaster quarries, 21/2 M. to the E. The erection consists of an
embankment, 33 ft. high, 200-260 ft. long, and 145 ft. thick, stretching
quite across the ravine, and constructed of solid masonry faced with lime-
stone slabs on the E. side. Remains of the stone—huts of the workmen
were found in the vicinity.

The excursion from Helwan to Salclgdm takes a whole day. We ride
in 11/2 1131-1. to the bank of the Nile and ferry across to Bedrashén. Thence,
see p. .

11. From Cairo to Mansﬁra.

91 M. RAILWAY via Belbés in 51/4-91/2 hrs.; three trains daily (fares
lst c1. 63, 2nd cl. 32 pias.). — This line passes through a monotonous
region. The expedition is recommended to archaeologists only.

From Cairo to (81/2 M.) Kalyflb, see p. 93. — Beyond Kalyl‘ib
the main line to Alexandria (R. 3) diverges to the left. Our train
turns towards the N.E., and traverses a fertile and well-watered
district. 13 M. Nawa. — 191/2 M. Shib’in el—Kanﬁli'r.

About 1V2 M. to the S.E. of Shibin el-Kanatir is the ruined site of
Tell el-Yehudiyeh (Hill of the Jews). Ramses lII. erected a temple here,
covered with glazed mosaic tiles, most of which are now in the Grizeh
Museum. These tiles are of special technical interest, as their colouring
is produced partly by variations in the glazing and partly by the use of
separate inlaid pieces of glass. At a later date Onias, the high-priest of
the Jews, aided by Philometor 1.. erected a temple after the model of
the Temple of Solomon for his countrymen who had been expelled from
Jerusalem by the Syrian party, and had met with a hospitable reception
in Egypt. A visit to the ruins scarcely repays the trouble, as most of
them are again buried in rubbish.

29 M. Inshds. —— 36 M. Belbés is of importance from its situation
at the junction of most of the routes leading from Cairo to the East.
NARROW GAUGE RAILWAYS FROM BELBES: 1. Via El-G’ossalc, Shubra

en-Nakhleh (Choubra-el-Nacla), Mil Gdber, Bem‘ Heldl, and Shalshalamﬂn,
to Minyel el—Ifamlt (p. 161). — 2. To Abu Hammad and Abu Kebir (see p. 157).,

The railway now approaches the Fresh Water Canal (p. 162). —
411/2 M. Burdén; narrow—gauge railway to Burdén Junction (p. 157).

47 M. Zakazik, see p. 161. — The Mansﬁra train crosses the
railway to Isma'iliya and Suez and then the Pelusiac arm of the
Nile and proceeds to the N.N.E., following the E. bank of the
Mu'izz Canal (see below). 55 M. Hehlyeh (narrow-gauge line to
Ibrdhlm’l‘yeh, see p. 157). — 611/2 M. Abu Keblr.

From Abu Kebir a branch-line runs to the E. via Tell Fdlcds to (201/2 M.)
Es-Sdlillfygh, situated on the old Pelusiac arm of the Nile (p. 169) and
on the caravan road to Syria. — To the N. of Tel] Fakﬁs, near the hamlet
of Khalaana, are the ruins of a large town; buildings dating from the
time of the 12th Dyn. and of the Ramessides have been discovered here
by Naville. About 23/4 M. to the N. of Khataana, near the village of Kanlu',
stood a temple built by Ramses II. _

About a day‘s journey from Tell Fakﬁs lie the ruins of the ancient
TENS (EgYI’t. Zanel; the Zan or Zoan of the Bible), situated near the
ﬁshing-Village of Stin, on the Illu’l‘zz Canal, the ancient Tanitic arm of the
Nile. The temple of the patron-god Set, built by Ramses II., partly with

