RELIGIOUS FESTIVALS. lxx v

cloth, which they sometimes hold aloft and sometimes wrap round
their head or face with both hands. Men wear no mourning clothes.
The women, especially in the country, frequently put dust on their
brows and breasts, or stain their hands and forearms blue. These
practices, though forbidden by the Prophet, are survivals from
antiquity, as may be seen on comparing the representations of an-
cient funerals at Thebes and elsewhere. The mourning women
occasionally interrupt their lamentations to rest on the ground and
smoke. Rich men, or pious shekhs and ‘ulama are buried With
greater pomp, to which religious fraternities and dervishes with
their ﬂags contribute; water is distributed; and the riding-horse
and a buffalo are led in the procession. The buﬁ'alo is slaughtered
at the tomb and its ﬂesh distributed among the poor.

Another custom peculiar to the Muslims is the separation of
the sexes even after death. In family-vaults one side is set apart
for the men, the other for the women. Between these vaults is the
entrance to the tomb, usually covered with a single large slab. The
vaults are high enough to admit 0f the deceased sitting upright in
them When he is being examined by the angels Munkar and Nekir
on the ﬁrst night after his interment (see p. lxiv).

Religious and Popular Festivals of the Mohammedans.

The dates of these festivals, which may all be seen to the best advan-
tage at Cairo, cannot easily be given according to the European computa-
tion of time, owing to the variable character of the Arabian lunaryear (comp.
p. lxix). Calendars reducing the Mohammedan and Coptic reckoning of
time to the European system may, however, be obtained at any bookseller‘s.

The ﬁrst month of the Arabian year is the Molzmv'em, the ﬁrst ten
days of which (MM), and particularly the 10th (yom “as-ham), are con—
sidered holy. On these days alms are distributed, and amulets purchased.
Mothers, even of the upper classes, carry their children on their should-
ers, or cause_ them to be carried, through the streets, and sew into the
children‘s caps the copper coins presented to them by passers-by. On the
10th Moharrem, the highly revered 'Ashﬂw'a day, on which Adam and Eve
are said ﬁrst to have met after their expulsion from Paradise, on which
Noah is said to have left the ark, and on which Hosén, the grandson of
the Prophet, fell as a martyr to his religion at the battle of Kerbela, the
Gami‘a el-Ijlosén (p. 42) is visited by a vast concourse of religious de-
votees, whose riotous proceedings had better not be inspected except from
a carriage. Tr00ps of Persians in long white robes parade the streets,
cutting themselves with swords in the forehead until the blood streams
down and stains their snowy garments. Two boys, representing Hasan
and Ionsén, are also led through the streets on horseback, with blood-
stained clothes.

At the end of Safar, the second month, or at the beginning of Rabi‘
el-awwel, the third, the MECCA CARAVAN (p. lxix) returns home, its ap-
proach being announced by outriders. Some of the faithful who go to
meet the procession proceed as far as three days’ journey, but most of
them await its arrival at the Birket el—Hagg (p. 108), or pilgrims’ lake.
Detached groups of pilgrims occasionally return before the rest of the
Cavalcade, and their arrival is always signalised by the blowing of trum-
pets and beating of drums. A pyramidal wooden erection, called the
Maﬁmal, hung with beautifully embroidered stuffs, and carried by a
camel, accompanies the procession as a symbol of royalty. The interior
of the Mahmal is empty, and to the outside of it are attached two copies

