to Edfu. EL—Kfm. 26. Route. 313

cient Egyptian domestic life will interest even those travellers who have
already seen the tombs of Benihasan (p. 197) and rAbd el-Kurna (p. 287).

We ﬁrst enter the tomb of Paheri, nomarch of el-Kab, which
is conspicuous by its wide opening. It dates from the reign of
Thutmosis III., and is distinguished by a series of representations
from the life of the deceased, with well—preserved colouring.

In front of the entrance is a platform in which is the opening of a
deep mummy-shaft. We enter the vaulted Toms by a much damaged
door, embellished with inscriptions and representations of the deceased.
Left Entrance Wall: the deceased with a long staﬁ‘; above is a sailing ship.
—— Left Wall (W.). In the upper row is the deceased inspecting harvest
operations (ploughing, sowing, reaping with sickles, collecting and binding
the sheaves, oxen treading out the corn, Winnowing the grain, bringing
home the grain",in sacks). In the lower row the deceased inspects his
herds (cattle, assts, etc.); he superintends the weighing of gold made into
rings and the shipping of his grain. In the upper row farther on Paheri
holds on his lap the young Prince Wezmose, whose tutor he was; Paheri
and his Wife in a bower receiving ﬂowers, fruit, etc.; above, vintage
scenes. In the lower row Paheri superintends his fowlers and ﬁshers;
the captured birds and ﬁsh are being prepared, and the nets repaired.
Fartber on to the right the burial of Paheri and the accompanying rites
are shown in ﬁve rows one above the other. — Rv'ghl Wall (E.). Paheri
and his wife at a banquet. with their son ofﬁciatingr as a priest before
them. Below their chair is a cynocephalus. Opposite them are their
relatives at table, and in the lower row are female harpists and ﬂute
players. Farther on to the right are Paheri and his wife, praying and
sacriﬁcing. A door was at'terwards made through this wall to two other
chambers. — Rear Wall. In the recess here sit Paheri, his wife, and his
mother. On the side-walls of the recess are various persons at a banquet.

Of the tombs to the right of the tomb of Paheri that ofAhmosé
Pen-nekhab is noteworthy. It consists of a single vaulted chamber,
the ﬁne reliefs in which have, however, left few traces.

Ahmose was a well-known historical personage, who was prominent.

especially in war, under the ﬁrst kings of the New Empire, from Amosis I.
to Thutmosis 111. His biography is rec0rded in the doorway.

To the left of the tomb of Paheri is that of Setaw, high—priest
of Nekhbet. This tomb, dating from the time of Ramses IX. t20th
Dyn.), is the latest grave with inscriptions at el-Kab. Though

400 years later than the others, it is decorated on the same plan.

The Left Wall is much damaged; nothing can now be distinguished
but four boats apparently bound for a festival of Ramses III. Rtghl Wall.
To the left are Setaw and his wife at table; below their chair [5 a cyn-
ocephnlus. Before them their son-in-law ofﬁciates as priest, in a panther
skin; and opposite are their relatives at table, seated 111 rows. The
artist has included his own portrait, identiﬁed by the palette. Part of
this scene is destroyed by a door made at a later period to a side-chamber.
Farther to the right are Setaw and his wife sacriﬁcing. —« The stele on
the Rear Wall is much injured.

To the left of this tomb lies that of Ahmosé, Chief of the Sailors,
which is noted for its long inscription recording the life and deeds
of the deceased, more especially his share in the war of liberation
against the Hyksos. . ~

The tomb comprises a rectangular chamber with vaulted ceiling, and
anotber room (right), with the mummy—shaft. MAIN Room. On the Right
Wall appears the deceased with staff and sceptre, accompanied by the

painter Paheri, his grandson, who constructed the tomb. In front is.the
above-mentioned inscription, continued on the entrance-wall. The desrgns

