xxxi

II. Geographical and Political Notice.
a. Area and Subdivisions of Egypt.

EGYPT proper, the country between the mouth of the Nile and
the First Cataract (comp. p. 335), is a small region with well-deﬁned
natural boundaries on three sides. On the'N. is the Mediterranean
Sea, on the E. the Arabian Desert and the Red Sea, and on the W.
the Libyan Desert. The S. boundary is not marked by any natural
feature, and has therefore at all ages been liable to alteration. Its
ﬂuctuations, sometimes to the N., sometimes to the S. form a kind
of standard of the ﬂuctuating political power of Egypt, and the causes
of the variations involve a great part of Egyptian history from the
most ancient times down to the present day.

When Mohammad rAli, the founder of the modern vassal king-
dom of Egypt (comp. p. xcix), died in 1849, he bequeathed to his
successor a power extending far to the S. of the First Cataract, and
including not only the Nubian Valley of the Nile, with the Nubiau
desert—regions, but also .the so—called Egyptian Sudan (Beled es-
Sudan, ‘land of the blacks’) consisting of the districts of Taka,
Senndar, and Kordofan. The Khedive Isma 11 (p. c) pushed his
boundaries towards the S until they comprised the whole course of
the White Nile and the greater part of the river—region of the Balm
el—Ghaza‘i, and ﬁnally extended to about 2° N. latitude. But these
territories were lost again even more rapidly than they had been
won. The rebellion of the Arab tribes that broke out in 1883 under
the Mahdi (pp. lxxii, cii) not only utterly destroyed the new Egyptian
power on the White Nile, but also wrested the entire Sudan as far
as Lower Nubia from the Khedive. The campaigns of 1896—98 and
the capture of Omdurman (p. 388), however, ﬁnally united the Sudan
with Egypt, though under totally altered conditions. Thus Egypt
strictly so called now includes the valley of the Nile up to a point
‘25 M. to the N. of wadi Halfa, the desert-strip along the Red Sea,
the coast to the W. of Alexandria as far as the Gulf of Solun, the
great Libyan Desert with the ﬁve Oases, the greater part of the Sinai
Peninsula, and the region of El-‘Arish (comp. Baedeker’s Palestine,
p. 143). Its area, exclusive of the deserts, may be estimated at
about 12,970 sq. M., of which about 9160 sq. M. are cultivable. The
Sudan, which begins on the Nile a little to the N. of Wadi Halfa
and on the Red Sea at 22° N. lat., is under a special Anglo-Egyptian
administration (comp. p. 380).

From the earliest times Egypt has been divided into two parts
of very unequal size, known as Lower and Upper Egypt. The
boundary between these is still, as in antiquity, to the S. of Cairo.
Upper Egypt, known as Sa‘zd, formerly extended to the First Cata—
ract only, but is now prolonged to the S. to Wadi Halfa. Politically,
Egypt is no divided into fourteen PROVINCES or Mud’iriyeh. The

