200 Route 18. BENIHASAN. From Cairo

TOMB 2, which belonged to Ameni-em-hét, also a nomarch of
the gazelle-nome in the reign of Usertesen I. In the VESTIBULE are
two ﬁne octagonal columns, bearing a ﬂat vault hewn out of the
rock. On the door-posts and lintel are prayers for the dead and
the titles of Ameni. Inside the door, to the right and left, is a
long inscription dated in the 43rd year of Usertesen I., extolling
the deeds of Ameni in several military campaigns and the beneﬁts
conferred by him upon his province.— Four sixteen-edged columns,
with narrow ﬂuting (so-calledProto-Doric columns, p. oxxxiii),
support the roof of the TOMB CHAMBER, which has three sections.
The wall-paintings closely resemble those in the tomb of Khnem-
hotep, but are still more faded. On the Entrance Wall, to the left, are
shoemakers, carpenters, goldsmiths, potters, and other handicrafts-
men, and agricultural scenes. Left Wall (NJ. At the top, hunting
in the desert; in the second row, transporting the statue and cer-
emonial dances; below, to the right, the deceased receiving tribute
from his estates ; in the two lowest rows, Ameni’s estate-ofﬁce. Rear
Wall. Wrestlers and military scenes; in the lower row, the corpse
being conveyed to the sacred tomb at Abydos. In the rear-wall
opens a recess containing the statues (much dilapidated) of the
deceased and his wife and mother. Right Wall (SJ. To the left the
deceased is seated at table with sacriﬁcial gifts heaped before him;
priests and servants bring food and other offerings for the dead;
below, the slaughtering and cutting up of sacriﬁcial animals. To
the right is Hetpet, wife of Ameni, also seated at table and receiv—
ing sacriﬁcial gifts.

If time permit, some of the other tombs also should be visited, the
most interesting being the following: TOMB 4, that of Khnemhotep, son of
the Khnemhotep buried in Tomb 3. In the vestibule stands a ‘Proto-
Doric" column; the tomb-chamber was unﬁnished._——— Tomb 5, unﬁnished.
~— TOMB 14, of Khnemhotep, governor of a province under Amenemhét I.
In the tomb-chamber are two plant—columns (unfortunately broken); the
wall—paintings are interesting but sadly faded. On the rear—wall appear
soldiers and a caravan Of Libyans, with their wives and children and
herds, who visited the province of the deceased; the men are distinguished
by the ostrich-feathers in their hair, the women carry their children in
baskets on their backs. — TOMB 18, though unﬁnished, is interesting as
the process of hollowing out the tomb-chamber may be traced. The
pavement in the front of the chamber is not fully excavated; and at
the back are ten lotus-columns with closed bud—capitals, of which ﬁve
still unﬁnished remain. — TOMB 21, of Nakht, governor of the gazelle-nome
under the 12th Dyn., resembles No. 15 (p. 198) in its arrangement. —-
TOMB 23, of Neternakht, governor of the E. districts, with uninteresting
wall-paintings; on the E. wall is a Coptic inscription. -—- TOMB 27, of
Remushenti, governor of the gazelle—nome. — TOMB 28, with two columns,
was converted into a church in the Christian period. —— TOMB 29, of Baket,
nomarch of the gazelle—nome. The door to this tomb and the entrance
to Tomb 30 were broken by the Copts. The wall-paintings are in com-
paratively good preservation, but offer no novel point of interest; the
dwarfs following the deceased, on the W. half of the S. wall, may perhaps
be mentioned. —— TOMB 33, of Baket, prince Ofthe gazelle—nome, son of the
Baket interred in No. 29; several wall-paintings. — TOMBs 34-39 were left
unfinished.

