THE SUEZ CANAL. 14. Route. 165

attempt to connect the Red Sea with the Nile (and thereby with
the Mediterranean) was made by Nekho (p. lxxxv). His plan was to
extend towards the S., from Lake Timsah to the Red Sea, an earlier
canal, in existence even under Ramses 11., which diverged from
the Nile near Bubastis and ﬂowed through the Wﬁdi Tﬁmilat
(p. 163). Herodotus informs us that no fewer than 120,000 Egypt-
ians perished while engaged in the work, and the king afterwards
abandoned the undertaking, as he was informed by the oracle that
the barbarians (Le. the Persians) alone would proﬁt by it. The
canal was completed a century later by Darius. Its course roughly
corresponded to that of the present Fresh Water Canal. It was Wide
enough to permit two triremes to row abreast, andit was four days‘
journey in length. Darius commemorated the completion of the great
work by various monuments on its banks, of which the remains have
been found at different spots (6.9. to the S. of Tell el-Maskhﬁta;
to the W. of the Serapeum station; to the N. of Shaluf near Kabret,
and to the N. of Suez). — Under the Ptolemies the canal system
was extended, and locks were erected at its efﬂux into the Red Sea.

The Canal fell into disrepair during the ﬁrst Christian century,
and Trajan (98—117 A.D.) seems to have restored it. At all events,
a canal, beginning near Cairo, and terminating in the Gulf of Suez,
the precise course of which, probably following the earlier channel,
is nowhere described, was called the Amnis Trajanus.

After the Arabs had conquered Egypt, they must have been
desirous of connecting the L0wer Egyptian part ofAthe Nile as
directly as possible with the Red Sea. ‘Amr ibn el—‘As (p. xciii)
accordingly restored the ancient canal (of which the Khalig at Cairo
is said to be a portion), and used it for the transport of grain from
Fostat (p. 32) to Kolzum (Suez), whence it was exported by the
Red Sea to Arabia. The bed of the ancient canal is said to have
been pointed out to ‘Amr by a Copt. The canal again became un-
serviceable after the 8th century. At a later period the Venetians
frequently thought of constructing a canal through the Isthmus
with a view to recover the trade which they had lost owing to the
discovery of the route round the Cape of Good Hope, and several
travellers advocated the scheme; but no one seriously attempted
to carry it out. Leibnitz, too, in his proposal regarding an expe—
dition to Egypt, made in 1671 to Louis X1V., the greatest monarch
of his age, strongly recommends the construction of such a canal.
Sultan Mustafa 111., the admirer of Frederick the Great, 'Ali Bey,
the enterprising Mameluke prince, and Bonaparte all revived the
scheme, and the latter on his expedition to Egypt in 1798 (p. cxv)
even caused the preliminary works to be undertaken, but the actual
execution of the project seemed almost as distant as ever. Lepére,
Bonaparte’s chief road engineer, surveyed the ground, but owing
to a serious miscalculation he threw great doubt 011 the feasibility
of the undertaking. While in reality the level of the two seas is

