INTERCOURSE WITH NATIVES. xx

cost, forgetting that the seeds of insatiable cupidity are thereby sown,
to the inﬁnite annoyance of their successors and the demoralisation
of the recipients themselves. Bakshish should never be given except
for services rendered, and every attempt at extortion should be ﬁrmly
resisted, as compliance only makes the applicants for bakshish
doubly clamorous. Payment should never be made until the service
stipulated for has been rendered, after which an absolutely deaf ear
should be turned to the protestations and entreaties which almost
invariably follow. Thanks, it need hardly be said, must never be ex—
pected from such recipients. Even when an express bargain has
been made, and more than the stipulated sum paid, they are almost
sure to pester the traveller in the way indicated. When no bargain
has been made, the fees and prices mentioned in the Handbook,
all of which are ample, should be paid without remark; and if
the attacks Which ensue are not silenced by an air of calm in-
diference the traveller may use the word mg. or imshi (be off!) in
a quiet but decided and imperative tone. At the same time it
must be admitted that the increasing number of visitors to Egypt
tends to raise prices during the chief travelling season, so that a
larger bakshish than is mentioned in the Handbook may sometimes
be necessary.

While much caution and ﬁrmness are desirable in dealing with
the people, it need hardly be added that the traveller should avoid
being too exacting or suspicious. He should bear in mind that
many of the natives with whom he comes in contact are mere
children, whose waywardness should excite compassion rather than
anger, and who often display a touching simplicity and kindliness
of disposition. The native communities hold together with remark-
able faithfulness, and the bond of a common religion, which takes
the place of ‘party’ in other countries, and requires its adherents
to address each other as ‘yc’i akhaya’ (my brother), is far more than
a mere name. On the other hand, intimate acquaintance with Orien-
tals is to be avoided, disinterested friendship being still rarer in the
East than elsewhere. The traveller, however, should on his side
do his utmost to sustain the well—established reputation of the
‘kilmeh f'rengiyeh’, the ‘word of a Frank’, in which Orientals are
wont to place implicit conﬁdence.

Notwithstanding all the suggestions we have ventured to oﬁer,
the traveller will to some extent have to buy his experience. In
most cases the overcharges to which he will be exposed will be
comparatively triﬂing; but if extortion is attempted on a larger
scale, he had better refer the matter to his consul.

BEGGARS are exceedingly numerous in Egypt, especially in the
country—districts. In every village ragged children pursue the trav—
eller with their ceaseless cry of ‘baltshish, bakshish, yd khawdgeh’
(oh, sir! a giftl; comp. p. 36). The best reply to such applica-
tions is ‘mt‘z fish, mc’i fish’ (I have nothing for you), which will

