Eastern Desert. KOSER. 30. Route. 347

In the Ptolemaic period the desert-route end ed at the Leukos Limen
or ‘White Harbour’, and in earlier times in the vicinity of the Wadi
Gasﬁs, near the village of Sauw, a little to the N. of lﬁosér. About
3 or 4 M. to the N. of Iiosér lies Old Kosé‘r, with some scanty an-
cient remains.

In going from Kosér towards the Nile the Beduins sometimes prefer
another and more southerly route than that through the wadi Hammamat.
This diverges from the route above described at the 357' el-Béda (see above)
and leads at ﬁrst through the winding det‘ Kabr el-Khddim, afterwards
passing the G’ebel Nultds and through the pass'of Bi'at el-Ghuzril into the
det‘ Ghazdl. To the right rise the conical Gebel Dagham‘yeh and Gebel
Moshrighir. We next follow the Wridi Homﬂda, which farther on takes the
name of dez‘ el-{Iomr from the ﬁne Gebel Homr, which ﬂanks it on the
right. The night is spent at Bir elrMo‘ila, a well beside a few huts of the
‘Ababdeh. At the Gebel Waikif we cross the Tarilr ed-dahrdwi, a road
running from N. to S., and farther on reach 'Amtira, with another well
and more ‘Ababdeh huts. Thence our route lies through the de2‘ NW
and the dez’ Knish to the Bir el-Kash, a dried-up well, beyond which we
pass numerous quarries of green breccia. Beyond the passes of Bi‘at el-
Khél (sandstone formation) and Ri‘at el-[Jamra we reach the Mabwala (see
p. 345) of Rats defur, whence we go on through the dei Mdglzlat to Mub-
walat Kho‘r el-Ghir. Lastly we proceed via Gdhmt ed-{mb’a to Lalt'éga (p. 345),
where our route unites with the more northerly one already described.

The JOURNEY TO BERENIKE through the territory of tbe rAbabdeh Beduins
is seldom undertaken. We may start from Keneh or Koptos, diverging at
Laketa from the route to Kosér, or we may begin at a point opposite Edfu
(Contra-Apollinopolis) or Redésiyeh (p. 319). On both routes traces of old
watering stations are discernible. The Itinerary of Antonine (3rd cent.
A.D.) gives a. list of the ancient stations (starting from Koptos) with their
distance from each other in Roman miles, as follows: Phoenicon 24, Di-
dyme 24, Afrodito 20, Kompasi 22, Jovis 23, Aristonis 25, Phalacro 25,
Apollonos 23, Kabalsi 27, Kaenon Hydreuma 27, Berenike 18 — in all 258
Roman miles : about 236 English miles. — A third route, established
by Hadrian, led from Antinoupolis (p. 201) to the Red Sea, and then
southwards along the coast to Berenike.

Golem'sheﬁ’, the Russian Egyptologist, who described his journey in
the ‘Ilecueil de travaux relatifs a la philologie Egyptienne’ (1889), took
11 days from Reddsiyeh (p. 319) to Berenike, and returned thence to
Assuﬁn in 8 days. ‘ A

1st Day. Bir Abbdd (3 hrs.), in the dei Midis. The Wadi Miah is
entered opposite the mouth of the det‘ Amnterikbe. This is an ancient
station with quarry-marks like those at el-Hosh, near Srlslleh.(p. 319).
Lepsius mentions a ruin here, named Herhush (Le. sandstone), dating from
some ancient settlement. .

2nd Day. Temple of Sethos l. The Temple was discovered 111 1816 by
Gailli‘aud, on his ﬁrst journey to the mines of Mt. Zabam. It was built
by Sethos I. beside a water-station either constructed or restored by that
king, and was dedicated to Ammon-Re. The vestibule is bullt of blocks
of sandstone and is supported by 4 columns wrth lotus-capitals. The
reliefs represent the king as victor over negroes and Asratlcs. — The
following inner chambers are entirely hewn out of the rock. .The ﬁrst
HALL contains ll square pillars. Long inscriptions .on_ each side of the
entrance record the sinking of the wells and the bulldrngbf the temple.
0n the side-walls the king is shown sacriﬁcing to the various gods wor-
Shipped in the temple. In the rear-wall are. three.n1ches, w1th statuesof
the king and various gods. — A Small Building besrde.the.temple perhaps
marks the site of the well sunk by Sethos. On an adJomlng rock, to the
E, are three steles. On one of these is an Asiatic goddess on horseback,
with a shield in her left hand; the second is dedicated to the ofﬁcial
entrusted by Sethos with the sinking of the well; and on the third is the

