Clxviii ARABIC LANGUAGE.

In the period of the Tulunides, when Persian inﬂuence made
itself felt even in the religious conceptions of Egypt, portraits were
painted and coloured wooden statues erected in the palaces, and
there was even a factory for ﬁgures of animals in Cairo. But no
long period elapsed before the prohibition contained in the Sunna
against the representation of any living being again came into force.
Representations of this kind are therefore very rare, and are now
to be found preserved only in the low reliefs carved by Persian
sculptors of the Shi'ite sect. Statues and paintings have disappeared
without leaving a trace. Painting and sculpture in modern Egyp-
tian art have been reserved exclusively for the decoration of wall-
surfaces.

XI. The Arabic Language.

Reu‘ritten by Prof. Hans Slumme.

The TRANSLITERATION of Arabic vocal sounds. so intensely different
from our own, in the ordinary Latin alphabet is rendered additionally
difficult by the varied international relations of Egypt. In maps and plans,
in railway time-tables, and in other publications we find the transliteration
differing widely according as the French or the English view has been
adopted. In this Handbook we have transliterated the consonantal sounds
So far as possible according to English usage (e.g., sh instead of the French
ch), but have deemed it advisable to follow the Italian or Continental
sounds of the vowels (uh, eh, ee, 0, 00). Thus: emir, which is pronounced
‘aymeer‘; shékh (or sheikh), pronounced ‘shake’ (with a guttural k); tulﬁl,
pronounced ‘toolool’; Abusz‘r, pronounced ‘Ahooseer’, etc. — The l of the
article is frequently nnassimilated; e.g. el—wis instead of er-rds (comp.
note 1- on p. clxxii).

Arabic belongs to the Semitic group of languages, and has no
relationship with the tongues of Europe. A knowledge of Hebrew,
however, will materially facilitate the learning of Arabic. The
golden era of Arabic literature is coeval with the introduction of
I‘ll—Islam, and the Koran in the dialect of the Igureish (the
family of Mohammed) is still regarded as an unrivalled model of
style and language. But by the side of this literary Arabic ﬂourished
also various colloquial dialects, which were carried by the Arabs
into the various provinces conquered for the Crescent, and there
developed partly under the inﬂuence of the old local tongues. In
this way arose the vulgar dialects of Arabic, of which that spoken
in Egypt is one. In writing, however, an attempt was made to
retain the older forms, and the written language ofthe present day,
known as Middle Arabic, occupies a position midway between the
original classical tongue and the popular dialects.

‘Egypt was conquered by the Arabs in the 19th year of the
Hegira (640 A. D.) and the Coptic language was replaced by
Arabic. The dialect of the latter develOped in the valley of the

