326 Route 28. KOM 0MBO.

god Khons, who writes the name of the king upon a palm—leaf, from
which hangs the symbol for length of time, behind are Sobk and
Haroéris, the chief gods of Ombos.

Two doors lead from Vestibule III to the two SANCTUARIES, of
which that to the left (Pl. H) was dedicated to Haroén's. that to the
right (Pl. S) to Soblc. In each is a pedestal of dark granite on which
the sacred boat with the image of the god was placed. Beside and
behind these chapels are smaller apartments with crypts.

Two small side-doors lead from the great hall to an INNER PASS-
AGE round the temple proper, in the innermost part of which are
seven doors opening into as many CHAMBERS (Pl. I-vrI). In the
central Room Iv is a staircase to the upper story. In some of the
others are unﬁnished sculptures (reliefs and inscriptions). illustrat-
ing various stages in the progress of such works.

On the terrace in front of the great temple lay a small Birth
House, facing towards the S., and now in a most ruinous condition.
It was built or restored by Euergetes II. Among the extant reliefs
one (at Pl. 0) deserves notice. It represents Euergetes II. with two
gods sailing in a boat through the marshes, which are bordered with
papyrus-plants thronged with birds; to the left is the ithyphallic
god Min—Ammon-Re. — On the S. side is a subterranean staircase
(P1. 11) leading to the river, on the bank of which is a Nilometer
(much damaged), like that at Edfu.

Finally we visit the small unﬁnished CHAPEL 0F HATHOR, built
of red sandstone under the Emp. Domitian.

The terrace in front of the temple commands a beautiful *View
of the Nile and the Nubian districts on the W. bank.

Near the village of Shatb (El-Chatb), on the Verge of the desert to the E.
of the temple of Ombos, are graves of crocodiles and other sacred animals.

Above Kém Ombo the channel of the river narrows. On the W.
bank, near Ralrdbeh, are the ruins of the ancient Contra—Ombos.
There is a narrow strip of cultivated land on the E. bank only.
Dark-skinned, nude inhabitants here and there work a water-wheel.
— Dara‘tu (Damw), a railway—station (p. 305) on the E. bank, marks
the boundary between the Arabic and Nubian languages.

The scenery becomes tamer beyond the Village of Kubdniyeh, on
the W. bank.

Opposite rises the Gebel el-Hammdm, with quarries which
yielded stone for the temple at Ombos as early as the reign of
Makere. At El-Khaiam, to the S. of it, granite appears for the
ﬁrst time. ‘

At El- lVdre§Zib (W. bank), opposite the island of Abu 'Arif, are
quarries (with grafﬁti).

Near Gezireh, a village on the E. bank, about ‘2 .\l. to the N.
of Assuﬁn, a glistening white cliff comes into sight, marking the
site of an ancient quartz-quarry, whence the Egyptians obtained
the necessary material for polishing hard stone.

