of Sethos 1. ABYDOS. 90. Route. 221

boat of its god. The central chapel was approached by a ﬂight of
steps, the others by inclined planes. The roofs of these chapels are
not vaulted in the strict architectural signiﬁcation of that word,
they are formed of three or four horizontal courses, each projecting
over the one below, and rounded off by the chisel to the form of an
arch. The vaults are decorated with stars and the names of Sethos 1.,
while the walls are covered with reliefs, illustrating the ceremonies
that took place in the sanctuaries. In the piers separating the doors

are rectangular Niches, which are also adorned with reliefs.

Those who desire to examine more particularly the sanctuaries and
niches, should begin with the Kim‘s SANCTUARY, to the left. Left Wall.
Lower row (from left to right): three jackal-headed gods and three hawk-
headed gods bear the king into the sanctuary, preceded by a priest, with
the lock of youth and a panther-skin, offering incense; the king seated
on a throne at a banquet, witb his guardian-spirit behind him and the
ibis-headed god Thout in front, the gifts offered to the king are recounted
in a long list in front of the god. Upper row: the priest in presence of
nine gods (in three rows), the king between Thout and Nekhbet, 0n the
right, and Horus and Buto, on the left, who hestow blessings upon him;
Thout and the priest sacrificing to the sacred boat of the king, which is
adorned with king‘s heads on stem and stern and stands in a shrine
crowned with serpents; the priest before tbe king. — Right Wall. Lower
row (from left to right): the king with his guardian-spirit and priest, as
on the opposite wall, the king seated beside Nekhbet and Buto on a throne
supported by the written symbol for ‘union‘, about which Thout and Horns
wind the characteristic plants of Upper and Lower Egypt (a scene sym-
bolizing the union of Egypt under the king); to the right Sefkhet—ebui
inscrihes the king‘s name for eternity, the priest hefore nine gods. Upper
row: the priest and Thont before the (defaced) image of the king, while
six gods, with the heads of jackals and hawks, bring vases to him; Mont
and Atum conduct the ruler to the temple, followed by Isis. - Tbe Rear
Wall in this and all the other sanctuaries except that of Osiris (see below)
was occupied by two blind doors, surmounted by richly adorned round
pediments and separated by the representation of a ﬂower on which a
serpent liEs. —-— NicHE f. To the left Thout holds the symbol of ‘life‘ to
the king‘s face, to the right Thout and the king sit facing each other; on
the rear-wall the priest of the dead offers incense hefore the king. -
SANCTUARY 0F PTAH (partly destroyed). On 1he side-walls the king is shown
worshipping Ptah. — Nrcnn g. Sethos before Ptah (rear), Harmachis (right),
and Sekhmet (left). — SANCTUARY or HARMACHIS. The reliefs here re-
present the king hefore Harmachis, Atum, the goddess Ews-rs of Heliopolis,
and Hathor. — NICHE h. The king before Ammon (R‘e), Mut (right), and
Harmachis (left), to whom he offers an image of lllaat. The inscriptions,
dating from tbe Greek period, sbould he noticed. —- SANCTUARY OF AMMON.
Sethos here sacriﬁces to the various forms of Ammon and offers incense
to the sacred boats of Ammon (adorned with rams“ heads), Khons, and Nut,
which stand in a shrine. Tbe colouring here is in excellent preservation.
-— KICHE i. The king anoints Ammon (Re), and offers incense to Khons
(right) and Mut (left). — SANCTUARY 0F OSIRIS. Tbe king in presence of
various forms of Osiris, who is frequently accompanied by Isis or other
gods, at the top of the right wall he sacriﬁces to the sacred bcat of Osiris,
and at the top of the left wall he offers incense to the reliquary of Osiris
at Abydos, which stands heneath a canopy with seven standards in front
of it-, on each side of the entrance is the king before the jackal-headed
Wep-wat. — NICHE k. The king before Osiris, Isis, and Newt. — SANCTUARY
OF Isls. Sethos appears before Isis, who is frequently accompanied by her
son, the hawk-headed Horus, and the boat of Isis. - SANCTUARY or HORUS.
The king in presence of the hawk-headed Horus and the boat of Horus. —
Nran l. The king before Osiris, Horns, and Isis.

A door in the Osiris Chapel leads to a series of chambers dedicated to

