334 Route 29. CONVENT or ST. SIMEON. Environs

registering the amount of grain; brewing; weaving (much defaced).
A vaulted corridor leads hence to a second Hall with pillars, at
the back of which is a recess. From this tomb we may descend
direct to the river—bank. -— Several smaller tombs have been found
on a lower platform. —— Higher up than the tombs are the remains
of a Coptic convent.

The summit of the hill, which, however, is not reached without
some difﬁculty, is crowned by the Kubbet el—hawa, the small tomb
of a shékh. It commands a' very ﬁne view of the Nile valley, the
district of the cataracts, and the desert. — From this point we may
reach the convent of St. Simeon in 1/2 hr., by a route following the
telegraph-poles.

The Convent of St. Simeon (Dér Anba Sama'dn} is situated on
a hill in the desert on the W. bank of the Nile. Landing opposite
the S. end of Elephantine, we follow a desert—valley, passing several
rock—tombs, and in 20 min. reach our goal. This is one of the
largest and best preserved Coptic convents, though it has been
abandoned by the monks since the 13th century. Nothing certain
is known as to the date of its origin. It stands surrounded by a
wall, over 20 ft. high, the lower part of which is built of hewn
stone, the upper part of bricks of Nile—mud. The two—storied MAIN
BUILDING lies to the N. The lower story contains a large central
vaulted corridor, with cells opening off it on each side. On the E.
wall of the corridor is a painting (only half preserved) of Christ
onthroned, with the Archangel Michael and six Apostles beside him.
Each of the small cells contained six or eight beds, some of which
still remain. At the NW. angle is the refectory. The staircase is
continued in the 8. angle to the next story, which is similarly
arranged, and thence to the roof. — Below the main building are
several rock-hewn cells and a rock—chapel, with a tastefully painted
ceiling and pictures of saints.

To the S.E. of the main building, between it and the girdle
wall, is the CHURCH, comprising nave and aisles and a choir with
sacristies on each side. The roof was vaulted throughout. In the
semi-dome of the choir is a ﬁne painting of Christ enthroned, be—
tween four angels. At the W. end of the nave, opposite the choir,
is a domed recess with a fresco of Christ with two angels bowing

before him. There are numerous Coptic inscriptions in the sacristies.
On the rocky plateau to the S. of the convent lie considerable quan-
tities of iron dross.

Excursion to Philm.

Most travellers to Philze avail themselves (for the outward journey at
least) of the MILITARY RAILWAY, which performs the journey from Assua‘m
in 1 hr. (fares 10 pias., 3 pias., 1 pias.). But the DESERT ROUTE is pre-
ferable (1 hr.-, donkey 5 pias., there and back 10 pias, bakshish 2pias.),
whether we follow it throughout or diverge from it to follow the river-
bank for part of the way. In the latter case we may, on the return,

