GEOLOGICAL NOTICE. liii

Amidst thc dcsert sand of the isthmus, which cven in Lowcr Egypt
forms a substratum underlying the Nile mud, and in the E. part of the
desert is nearly covered with a solid gypseous and saline crust, the rock
occasionally crops up, or has been uncovered in the course of the ex-
cavation of the canal. Near the Sbalﬁf station (p. 171) a greenish-grey,
gypseous marl overlies the solid limestone, which contains the tertiary
marine conchylia, sharks” teeth, and remains of crocodiles and am-
phibious mammalia. The same formation occurs in other places also,
and ridges of the early tertiary nummulite limestone likewise occasionally
rise from the plain. At scveral points on the coast of the Red Sea,
particularly near Kosér (p. 347), at a height of 600-950 ft. above the sea-
level. we ﬁnd rock of the late tertiary or diluvial era containing coral,
which shows how much the land must have risen since that pcriod.

To the postpliocene, or latcst tertiary period, belong several isolated
deposits of sandstone near Cairo, in which are found the beautiful fos-
sil sea—urchins (Clypeaster Aegyptz‘acus) frequently offered for sale near
the Pyramids (p. 113). One of the principal geological curiosities near
Cairo is the Petrified Forest (comp. p. 111).

Above Cairo, to the 8., the Nile is ﬂanked by ranges of hills, beyond
which, to the E., stretches the Arabian desert, and to the W. the Libyan
desert. The hills on both banks of the Nile consist of early tertiary num-
mulite limestone. The strata dip gradually from south to north, so that
the farther we ascend the Nile the older are the strata that we meet
witb. To the south of Edfu the nummulite limestone disappears, being
succeeded by quartzose sandstone, bclonging to the middle or upper
chalk formation, and forming considerable cliffs at the Gebel Silsileh
(p. 3'20), which conﬁne the river within a narrow bed. This last formation.
known as ‘Nubian sandstone”, covers many thousands of square miles of
Nubia and the Sudan. From Assuan to Silsileh the Nile ﬂows through
Nubian sandstone, but near the ancient Syene a transverse barrier of granite
and ‘syenite’ advances from the east, forming the boundary betwcen Egypt
and Nubia. This barrier extcnds eastwards for about 180 miles, forming
a very irregular chain of barren hills 900-1300 ft. in height. The Nile
has forced a passage for itself through this hard rock. exposing to view
at places the beautiful red felspar crystals which it contains, and forms
the ﬁrst cataract at Assuan (p. 347).

(2) THE ARABIAN DESERT (pp. 344 et seq.). Parallel with the coast of thc
Red Sea, a broad and massive range of mountains, rising to a height of
6600 ft. and consisting of crystalline rocks (granite, syenite, diorite, por—
phyry, hornblende-slate , gneiss, mica-slate, etc.), runs through the Arabian
Desert, sending forth numerous ramiﬁcations into the interior of the
country. This range is adjoined on the E. by roof-shaped . stratiﬁed form-
ations. At ﬁrst there occurs a considerable stratum of Nubian sandstone,
next to which we ﬁnd a series of clayey and calcareous strata belonging
to the upper white cbalk formation. These strata are succeeded by ex-
tensive masses of limestone, belonging to the nummulite formation, and
stretching to the Nile. These cxtensive mountains, with their numerous
profound ravines and boldly shaped masses of rock, impart a most im-
posing character to the Arabian Desert. This region is by no means so
destitute of vegetation as is usually supposed; for, although without oases,
it contains. particularly in the N. part, a number of springs and natural
cistcrns, which are ﬁlled by the rarc, but often copious, rains of winter.

(3). THE LIBYAN DESERT. This region again presents an entirely difv
ferent character. It consists of an immense, monotonous, and stony table-
land, 650-1000 ft. above the level of the Nile, extending between the Nile
and the oases of Khargeh, Dakhel, Farafra, and Bahriyeh. The surface
of the desert rises in gradations, each preceded by a broad girdle of isolated
mounds, which have obviously been formed by erosion, the materials
having been washed down from the adjoining plateau. The whole of this
stony and absolutely unwatered plain, the monotony of which is only
varied by a few solitary ranges of sand-hills, consists of nummulite lime-
stone. 1n the direction of the oases it descends in precipitous slopes,

