244 Route 24. THEBES LE. BANK). ~2. Kamak:

the towers of the pylon show the high—priest Pinotem (21st Dyn.)
and his wife Hent»tewé sacriﬁcing to various Theban deities. The
central portal (with reliefs of Alexander II.) admits us to the —

Court (Pl. A), Which is surrounded on three sides by a colonnade
with a double row of papyrus»columns with bud~capitals. On the
sm00th shafts and on the walls are representations of Herihor offer-
ing sacriﬁces. The court had four side-exits.

On the right (E.) wall is a noteWOrthy relief: Herihor oﬁ'ers incense
before the sacred boats of Ammon (with the ram‘s head), Mut (with the
goddess’s head), and Khons (with the hawk‘s head). To the right is a
relief of the fagade of the temple, showing the pylon with its ﬂag-staﬂ‘s.

@ @ Beyond this court lies a
Hypostyle Hall (P1. B), with
three aisles, occupying the entire
breadth of the building. The
decorations were added by Ram-
ses XII. The central aisle has
four papyrus columns with calyx-
capitals, while each of the side-
aisles, which are 5 ft. lower, has
two columns with bud—capitals.
On the walls and capitals appears
— Ramses XII. sacriﬁcing to various
deities.
A door in the centre of the
rear-wall leads to the Sanctuary,
c which is open at both ends and
was separated from the rest of
the building by an Ambulatory,
. . . 10 ft. wide. Here was preserved
© © 0 © 0 O the sacred boat of Khons. The

© © © ©--© -©— reliefs represent the king (Ram-
@ (9,, © © ses 1V. and Ramses XII.) before
©_—© ' © © various gods. Blocks bearing re-
m
s© ©

29 an to so 50 ‘IO 80 90f:

    

_10

mos

presentations and eartouches of
© © A Thntmosis 111. have been built
into the walls of the sanctuary.

© ©
On each side of the Sanctuary
lie dark chambers, with reliefs by
Ramses IV.; and behind it a door-
1’ P

way of the Ptolemaic period ad-

inits to a Small Hall (Pl. E), with 4 twenty-sided columns. The
reliefs in this hall exhibit Ramses IV. (but occasionally also the
Emp. Augustus, 6.9. on each side of the entrance) before the Theban
gods. Adjoining are seven small chapels (P1. F-M), the purpose of
which is unknown, with reliefs 0f Ramses III. and his successor.
A door on the right (E.) of the ambulatory leads to a staircase, by

which the Temple Roof may be reached without any serious difficulty.
Fine View of the temnles of Karnak. On the roof are numerous hieratic

