1 .1 Route '2. ALEXANDRIA. Palace Rt‘ts et-Tin.

We now enter the SEPULCHRAL CHAPEL (Pl. K). The sarcophagi
containing the remains stand in niches (Pl. a—c) and are hewn, like
their lids, out of the solid rock. The fronts are adorned, after the
Greek fashion, with festoons, masks, heads of Medusa, bucrania,
and bunches of grapes. On the middle one is a reclining ﬁgure of
the deceased. The walls of the niches are decorated with Egyptian
representations of religious import.

CENTRAL NICHE (a). Bear Wall: 011 a bier supported by lions‘ feet
rests the mummy, surrounded by Horus, Thoth, and Anubis, the three
gods of the lower world; below the bier are three canopic vases. Left
Wall: A priest of the dead, Wearing a pantherskin, reads from a roll,
goddesses sacriﬁce in front of an altar. Eight Wall: similar scene. — RIGHT
NICHE (b). Rear Wall: King sacriﬁcing an Apis bull, With a winged god-
dess, with a feather, in the background. Left Wall: Royal sacriﬁce to
Osiris. Right Wall: Two gods with long staves. —— The representations in
the LEFT NICHE (c) are similar. — To the right and left of the door are
representations of the jackal-headed Anubis and the crocodile—headed Sobk,
each with the armour, shield, and lance of a Roman soldier.

Round the sepulchral chapel runs a GALLERY (L), entered from
the vestibule, with two rows of shelf-tombs (91 in all). Each of
these contained at least three mummies. The names and ages of the
deceased7 in red paint, are still visible on some of the slabs. —— Ad-
joining the corridor are {our LATER. ROOMS (N-Q), with shelf-tombs
and sarcophagus-niches. At the back of the corridor is a SARCO-
PHAGUS CHAMBER (Pl. M), with three tomb-niches and plain pillars.
We leave the burial-place here by a breach in the wall.

Farther to the W. lie some other previously known tombs, of less
interest.

The main portion of the Arab quarter lies on the ancient Hepta-
stadium (p. 9), between the E. and the W. harbours. Its chief
thoroughfare is the RUE DE FRANCE, with its prolongations the Rue
Masguid Terbana and Rue Ras et—Tin (Pl. E, 3), which begins at
the N.W. corner of the Place Me'he’met Ali (p. 11). The Arab quarter
is adjoined by the Turkish quarter (P1. D, E, 2), on What Was
formerly the island of Pharos (p. 8), with less narrow streets and
handsome houses and gardens. Both these quarters present interest-
ing scenes of Oriental life. The Rue Ras et—Tin ends at the vice-
regal —-

Palace of 3.5.5 etc-Tin (Pl. A, B7 3), a name signifying ‘pro-
inontory of ﬁgs“. The palace, which was built by Mohammed rAli
and restored by Isma‘il, is uninteresting. The balcony, however,
commands a ﬁne view of the extensive harbour. (Admission by
ticket procured at the consulate.) The Harem, a separate building,
facing the sea, is built on the model of the seraglio at Constantin-
ople. — A visit to the neighbouring Lighthouse (P1. A, 4) is inter-
esting, especially in the early morning, but admission is granted
only to those provided with an order to be obtained through the
consulate. — The Naval Arsenal (Pl. 0, D, 3) is not worth visiting.

The RUE DE LA PORTE DE Rosmrn (P1. F—I, 4), leading to the
E. from the centre of the city. is another important thoroughfare.

