308 Route 26'. ERMENT.

53 M. Mahamid is the station for visitors to the ruins and
tombs of El-Kab (p. 311). Close behind the station, to the left, is
the isolated hill of tombs, and to the right is the old town-wall of
Nekhab (p. 311). — The railway now traverses the desert. In the
distance to the right the pylon-towers of Edfu come into sight.

66 M. Edfu. The town and temple are situated on the W. bank
(p. 314).

The line now hugs the river for some time, passing immediately
below the rocks that are crowned by the ruins of the late-Roman
fortress of Es-Sertig (p. 319). — 841/2 M. Silwa. -~ A wider curve
through the desert carries us past the river-deﬁle of Silsileh; and
we see no more of the arable land until beyond Kém Ombo, the hills
of which, with their temple—ruins, appear on the right.

1071/2 M. Dar-aw, a large village with 9000 inhab., is the start-
ing-point for a visit to the temple ruins at K6m Ombo (p. 323),
5 M. to the N. (donkey from the station and back 23.). Fans, bas-
kets, and all kinds of Nubian articles may be purchased here very
cheaply.

The line passes ﬁne groves of palms as it traverses the granite
district ofAssuan. —122 M. Khepptira (Khattara). — 130 M. Gezireh
(Guezi’reh) is the station for the N. part of Assu'ﬁn. 0n the left bank
appears the hill of tombs (p. 331), with the Kubbet el-hawa, the
picturesqe grave of a shékh. -— At (131 M.) Jonction our line is
joined by the old line from Assuan to Shellal. Passing the camp
of the Bisharin Arabs (p. 329), the line threads the narrow lanes of
the town to the station at—

133 M. Assudn (p. 327).

26. From Luxor to Edfu by the Nile.
Comp. Map, 17. 224.

67 M. TOURIST SrEAMER, up in 10, down in 7 hrs.

The picturesque forms of the Arabian side of the Nile remain
long in view, the colossi of Memnon being the last of the ruins to
disappear. 0n the W. bank is Maris, with a sugar-reﬁnery. —— In
2 hrs. the steamer reaches -——

91/2 M. (W. bank) Erment (Armani,- railway-station, p. 307),
the ancient Hermonthis, with an important sugar-factory belonging
to the Khedive, and post and telegraph ofﬁces.

This town was called in antiquity On, or to distinguish it from other
places of the same name, the Southern. On or Per-Mont (House of Mont),
whence the Greek Hermomhis was formed. Its deity was the hawk-headed

Mont, god of war. In the Roman imperial period it was the capital of
a province.

The bank is shaded with stately lebbek-trees. From the point
where the bazaar reaches the bank of the river, a ﬂight of steps, in-
corporating several ancient sculptured fragments, descends to the

