of Cairo. OLD CAIRO. 5. Route. 73

inscription with the date 1195. The church also contains some
interesting Byzantine carving and mosaics in ivory, now blackened
and discoloured with age. Anumber of old pictures of saints, some
of them on a gold ground and with well-preserved colours, possess
no artistic value. The Coptic priest who exhibits the church expects
a fee of 1 pias. from each visitor. — Two narrow ﬂights'of steps
(Pl. q, r) descend to the Crypt (often ﬂooded), a small vaulted chapel
with marble columns under the choir, consisting of nave and aisles
(boy to show the way 1 pias.). At the end of the nave is an altar
in the form of an early-Christian tomb-niche, which tradition in-
dicates as the spot where the Virgin and Child reposed; in the centre
of the aisles are apses. The right aisle contains the font, into
which, according to the Coptic ritual, the child to be baptised is
dipped three times.

The Castle contains several other basilicas, used by Coptic and
Jewish congregations, but interesting only to those who are making
a special study of this kind of architecture. Among them we may
mention the churches of St. Barbara (Sitteh meam; recently
restored), containing good carvings and paintings, Mari Girgix
(St. George), and El-‘Aglra. The Jews say that Elijah once appeared
in the Synagogue (Esh-Shamyfm or Kerriset Elit‘rhu}.

To the left of the exit from the castle, beyond the recently
erected Greek Convent of St. George, lies the Coptic church El-
Mo'allafca or‘resting upon columns’. The latter, the oldest in Babylon
(p. 71), has been recently thoroughly restored. —— Beyond the angle
on the S. side of the castle, between projecting towers, is a massive
Roman Gateway (exhumed in 1901), built of fragments of ancient
Egyptian masonry. On the gable are strongly emphasized baroque
forms, and over the archway, to the left, is a block showing the
winged sun-disk.

Starting from the door of the castle, we proceed towards the N.,
across the rubbish heaps of the ancient Fosjat (p. 32), skirt the town—
wall, and after 650 yds. reach the whitewashed W. facade of the ex-
ternally insigniﬁcant mosque of Amru, which has three entrances.
Visitors usually enter by the S. entrance, below the minaret.

The Gami'a ‘Amr ibn cal-“As, called Mosque of Amru by the
Europeans, owes its name to the general of the Khalif rOmar,
though not a trace now remains of the original mosque, which was
only 50 ells long and 30 ells broad. Indeed there is scarcely a
building in Egypt that has so frequently been destroyed by water,
ﬁre, and earthquake, and that has been so regularly rebuilt.

The interior (2 pias. to the attendant who escorts the visitor)
is in exact accordance with the typical form of the rectangular
mosque with a hypacthral arrangement of columns round an open
court; and in spite of its imperfect state (the N. and S. colonnades
are represented by the bases only of the columns), its great size

