362 Route .32. DAKKEH. From Kalébsheh

presentations of foot-prints, indicating the spots where the worshippers
stood. The roof of the central portal may be reached from the W. tower.

No trace now remains of the court between the Pylon and the
vestibule. The facade of the VESTIBULE, or Promws (Pl. B), had
two columns with palm-
capitals, connected with
the side—walls by means
of screens. Only the col-
umn to the left is now
standing, on the back of it
is a representation of the
god Bes, dancing and
playing the harp. 0n the
walls are representations
of the king before the gods
of Dakkeh. On the E.
side—wall is an interest—
ing picture , representing
the Pharaoh proffering to
the god Thout a palette,
which is borne by Isis
and Nephthys and is,
perhaps, symbolical of
Osiris. Beliefs of an Eth-
iopian king occur on the
rear-wall (at the top, to
the left). The whole of the
walls and the ceiling were
mmm» .7, m painted over in Christian
times with sacred sub—
jects, traces of which still
remain, notably on the E. wall (God the Father enthroned) and on
the N. wall (Cruciﬁxion). — The doorway in the rear-wall was
originally the main entrance to the temple. On the jambs are a
number of reliefs, one above the other: to the left, Philopator
sacriﬁcing to RE, Khnuin, and Isis; to the right, Philopator before
Amman—Re, Harendotes, and lsis. Within the portal Augustus
offers the ﬁgure of Maat to the god Thout of Pnubs and to the lion-
headed Tefnut.

CHAMBER C, which we enter next, is almost entirely demolished
and its ﬂoor is strewn with ruins. A staircase, on the right, led
hence to the roof of the temple in the imperial period; at the top
is a crypt in the thickness of the wall. — CHAMBER D, built by
Ergamenes, is also much ruined. Of its reliefs only one is interest—
ing (on the right wall): Ergamenes pouring out wine for a god de-
scribed as ‘PharaOh of Senmet‘ (Bigeh) and for Anuket. '— A small
door (of later construction) in the W. wall admits to Two CHAMBERS

 

 

 

 

 

