Copts. THE MODERN EGYPTIANS. xli

hopes, however, were doomed to bitter disappointment, and their
national pride to utter humiliation. Their conquerors succeeded in
maintaining their position, and though apparently at ﬁrst inclined
to moderation, were at length driven by the conduct and the previous
example of the Copts themselves to persecute and oppress them to
the uttermost.

In spite, however, of all these disasters, a numerous community
of Copts has always existed in Egypt, a fact which is mainly to be
accounted for by the remarkable tenacity and constancy of the
Egyptian character. Owing, however, to the continual oppres-
sion and contempt to which they have been subjected, the grave
disposition of the subjects of the Pharaohs has degenerated into
sullen gloom, and their industry into cupidity. The rancour which
they have so long cherished has embittered their character, while
the persecutions they have suffered have taught them to be at one
time cringing, and at another arrogant and overbearing. They are
in very few respects superior to their Mohammedan countrymen.
They generally possess a hereditary aptitude for mathematical
science, and are therefore in great request as book-keepers and
accountants, but on the other hand they are entirely destitute of the
generous and digniﬁed disposition of the Arabs. They obey their
law which forbids polygamy, but constantly abuse that which per-
mits them to indulge in spirituous liquors, drunkards being fre-
quently met with, even among their priests. Their divine worship
will strike the traveller as strange, and anything but edifying or
elevating (comp. p. 71).

The traveller may distinguish the Copts from the'Arabs by their
dark turbans, which are generally blue or black, and their dark—
coloured clothes. This costume was originally prescribed by their
oppressors, and they still take a pride in it as a mark of their origin,
though now permitted to dress as they please. A practised eye will
also frequently detect among them the ancient Egyptian cast of
features. Towards strangers the Copt is externally obliging, and
when anxious to secure their favour he not unfrequently appeals to
his Christian creed as a bond of union. Many Copts have recently
been converted to Protestantism by American missionaries, partic-
ularly in Upper Egypt, chieﬂy through the foundation of good
schools and the distribution of cheap Arabic Bibles. Even the
orthodox Copts have a great reverence for the sacred volume, and it
is not uncommon to meet with members of their sect who know the
whole of the Gospels by heart. The Roman propaganda, which was
begun by Franciscans at the end of the 17th and beginning of the
18th cent., has been less successful among the Copts. There are,
however, a few small Roman Catholic communities in Upper Egypt
(at Girgeh, Akhmim, and Negadeh), forming the ‘Church of the
Catholic Copts’, whose patriarch at Alexandria, Cyrillos 11., con-
secrated in 1899, is a native Copt. The patriarch of the old Copts

