BIBLIOGRAPHY. clxxxix

Onthe route: Welcome. Ahlan wasahlan, or marliaba. Answer:
Twice welcome. Marlrabtén.

I beg you (to enter, to eat, to take). Tafaddal (lefaddal,
ilfaddal); fem. tafadddli (itfadddli); plur. tafadddlu (itfaddélu,
tefadddlu). — Willlyou not join us [in eating)? Bismillah (liter-
ally ‘in God’s name’). Anﬂswer: May it agree with you, Bilhc’ma.

Take care; beware. Ulta; fem. Wei.

I am under your protection; save me. F’ardak (ﬂ‘ardak). — My
house is thy house. Béti bétak. -— Be so good. E'mz‘l ma'rﬁf.

What God pleases (‘happens’, understood). Mdshallah (an ex-
clamation of surprise). — As God pleases. Inshallah. — By God.
Walldh, or walldhi. -— By thy head. Waltz/(it rdsak. —— By the life
of the prophet. Wahyc‘tt en—nebi. By the life of the father. Wahydt~
abak. -— God forbid. Staghﬁr Allc’z‘h! -— Heavens! Ya salzim!

XII. Works on Egypt.

The traveller who desires more than a mere superﬁcial acquaint-
ance with the land of the Pharaohs should of course before leaving
home read some of the standard works on the subject, and also
select a number of others for reference or entertainment during the
journey. This is all the more necessary if the traveller is entirely
ignorant of the ancient and modern languages of the country, in
which case he will ﬁnd it difﬁcult, if not impossible, to institute
independent enquiries as to its manners, literature, and art. From
the appended list, which might easily be extended, the traveller
may make a selection in accordance with his individual taste.

A very complete bibliography of Egypt will be found in Prince Ibra-
him Hilmy“s Literature of Egypt and the Soudan from the earliest times
to the year 1885 inclusive; 2 vols. fol., London, 1886-87. Among the leading
foreign authorities on Egypt are Lepsius‘sl‘Denkmﬁler aus [Egypten und
IEthiopien’, Champollion‘s ‘Monuments de l'Egypte et de la Nubie’, Rosellini‘s
‘Monumenti dell” Egitto e della Nubia‘, and the ‘Description de l“Egypte’
published by the members of the French expedition.

The Arabian historians are mere chroniclers, who narrate a series of facts
and traditions, and are entirely deﬁcient in method and the faculty of
criticism. The following are the most impOrtant writers on the general
history of Egypt: —- El-Mas‘ﬁdi (d. 956), of Fostat; an el-Athz‘r (d. 1232),
of Mossul in Syria; 11m Khaldan (d. 1406), one of the most learned of
Arabian authors, a philosophical historian, and chieﬂy famous for the pre-
face to his history, which was printed at Bulak, in seven volumes, in 1868;
Abulﬁdd (d. 1331), prince of Hama in Syria. The following are authors
of important works on limited epochs of Egyptian history and of valuable
descriptive works: —— El-Malcm‘zi (d. 1442, at Cairo), the author of a geo-
graphical, physical, historical, and political description of Egypt, and of
Cairo in particular, printed at Bﬁlﬁk in 1854; Abul-Malldsz‘n (d. 1469), the
author of a detailed history of Egypt from the Arabian conquest nearly
down to the time of his death ; Es-Siyayi (d. 1506), of Assiut in Upper Egypt;
El-Mmmﬁ (d. 1624); Abu Shdma (d. 1224), who wrote the history of Nﬁr-
eddin and Salz‘iheddin; Bahdeddz‘n (d. 1231), who for many years was a

