HIEROGLYPHICS. (W

A great advance was made when words, for which there was
no special symbol, began to be expressed by the pictures of other
and different objects, the phonetic signiﬁcance of which, however,
happened to be the same. Thus, e.g., p1- ‘to go out’ was expressed
by the picture of a house, because a ‘house’ also was called pr,-

3’ ‘son’ by a ‘goose’ gs;- tp ‘ﬁrst’ by the symbol 3 tp ‘dagger’.

Many of these symbols gradually came to be used for so many
different words that their original word—signiﬁcation was lost, and
they thenceforth were used as purely syllabic symbols. Thus, the
symbol p’ originally ‘to ﬂy’was afterwards used for the syllable p‘
in any signiﬁcation; wr, originally ‘pigeou’ and afterwards also u'r
‘great’, was used for any syllable wr. In this way word—symbols
that had a single sound came to be used as letters; 6.9. 0 rr
‘mouth’ was used for 1'; m 5, ‘lake’ for 37,- ] _z-t ‘serpeut’
(t is the feminine termination) for _z,- etc.

These syllabic and literal symbols were probably used at ﬁrst
for grammatical purposes only (as sufﬁxes), but afterwards, owing
to frequent ambiguities in the signiﬁcance of the verbal sym—
bols, they were used to indicate the pronunciation in each par—
ticular case and thus to render the reading easier. Thus to the
symbol % wrr ‘great’ a O r was frequently added, written thus

% urr, in order to indicate the pronunciation; or 'nkh ‘to live’
0
was followed by the two explanatory consonants ~wwx n and $3 kh,

thus -% ® ‘nkh; or U nb ‘lord’ was preceded by szw n, thus

W’W‘ nb. Frequently all the consonants in a word were written
® I
instead of merely the verbal symbol, thus [1 Q Q Q Q skht ‘ﬁeld’ in-

stead of Q g Q ékht.

In addition to these there was another class of hieroglyphics,
known as Determinatives, which were placed after the word in
order to give some hint as to its meaning. Thus, 6.9., s'(o)wr ‘to drink’

is written DEE—<7 Q, with the determinative g) (a man with
O

his ﬁnger in his mouth) in order to indicate that the idea expressed
by sf(o)w1- has something to do with the mouth. These determinatives,
which greatly facilitate the reading of inscriptions, were freely used
especially in later hieroglyphic periods.

The hieroglyphic system, as we ﬁnd it in the earlier Egyptian
inscriptions, is already complete; its development, brieﬂy sketched
above, had already come to a close. The following different classes
of hieroglyphic symbols were used simultaneously.

