lxii DOCTRINES OF EL—ISLKM.

rain, though rain-clouds are frequently driven in from the sea and
discharge themselves in repeated short showers. Alexandria and
the coast of the Delta fall within the region of winter-rains. But
even in the Delta the air absorbs all moisture fast enough to prevent
entirely, or almost entirely, all malaria which would otherwise be
generated to an enormous extent by the sluggish waters of the
various mouths of the Nile. In Upper Egypt malaria is quite unknown.

III. Doctrines of El-Islam.

Manners and Customs and Religious and P0pu1ar Festivals
of the Mohammedans.
By Prof. Socin.

El-Islam is the most widely spread religion in the world, and
has not yet ceased to spread.

Mohammed‘r, as a religious teacher, took up a position hostile
to the ‘age of ignorance and folly’, as he called heathenism. The
revelation which he believed it was his mission to impart was,

+ Mohammed (‘the praised”, or ‘to be praised’) was a scion on the
paternal side of the family of Hashim, a less important branch of the
noble family of Kureish, who were settled at Mecca, and were custodians
of the Ka‘ba. His father ‘Abdallah died shortly before his birth (about
570). In his sixth year his mother Amina took him on a journey to
Medina, but died on her way home. The boy was then educated by his
grandfather 'Abd el-Muttalib, and, after the death of the latter two years
later, by his uncle Abu rant. For several years Mohammed tended
sheep. He afterwards undertook commercial journeys, at ﬁrst in company
with his uncle, and then, when about twenty—ﬁve years of age, in the
service of the widow Khadija, who became his ﬁrst wife. On one of these
journeys he is said to have become acquainted with the Christian monk
Bahira at Bosra.

About that period a reaction in the religious life of the Arabs had
set in, and when Mohammed was about forty years of age he too was
struck with the vanity of idolatry. He suffered from epilepsy, and during
his attacks imagined he received revelations from heaven. He can scarcely,
therefore, be called an impostor in the ordinary sense. A dream which
he had on Mt. Hira, near Mecca, gave him the ﬁrst impulse, and he soon
began with ardent enthusiasm to promulgate monotheism, and to warn
his hearers against incurring the pains of hell. It is uncertain whether
Mohammed himself could read and write. His new doctrine was called
Islam, or subjection to God. At ﬁrst he made converts in his own family
only, and the ‘Muslims’ were persecuted by the Meccans. Many of them,
and at length Mohammed himself (622), accordingly emigrated to Medina,
where the new religion made great progress. Alter the death of Khadija,
Mohammed took several other wives, partly from political motives.

He now endeavoured to stir up the Meccans, and war broke out in
consequence. He was victorious at Bedr, but lost the battle of the Uhud.
His military campaigns were thenceforth incessant. He obtained great
inﬂuence over the Beduins, and succeeded in uniting them politically.
In 630 the Muslims at length captured the town of Mecca, and the idols
in it were destroyed. Mohammed‘s health, however, had been completely
undermined by his unremitting exertions for about twenty-four years;
he died on 8th June, 632, at Medina, and was interred there.

