Upper Floor. MUSEUM OF otZEH. 6. Route. 105

vessels; wooden ﬁgures of the king and various gods; small mummy-
shaped cofﬁns in blue fayence, which held ﬁgures of the deceased
king; vulture of painted wood; two wooden hawks, coated with
bitumen. -— In the third case is a wooden boat of the sun. —- Under
glass are two other boats.

Table Case (opposite the entrance): Three unbaked tiles, with
magic formulae inscribed in white; on one of them is a lion; blue
fayence and earthenware seal-rings, with the ﬁgure of a jackal and
nine captives; carved boards (from boats of the sun), with representa-
tions of the king as a Sphinx treading upon an Asiatic, or as a lion
or a jackal; two fragments of limestone, with accounts; ornamented
piece of leathern harness; fragment of an alabaster group of two
gods pouring the water of consecration upon the king; bow with the
king’s name; fragments of a painted wooden bow-case.

We now return to R. LXXIV.

ROOM LXXXVII contains objects from graves, cofﬁns; etc., found
at various places.

1252. Elegant gold-inlaid cofﬁn of Harsiesé, high-priest ofEdfu,
with an admirably preserved mummy on which are garlands, am-
ulets, eta—1254. Two sepulchral sledges found in the tomb of Sen-
nutem (see below), the type of the early-Egyptian funeral carriage.

In the corners of the room (S.W.): Terracotta cofﬁns, apparently
of very late date; 1260. Fine cofﬁn of Sen—nutem (see Nos. 1254,
467); 1261. Mummy of a woman, with her ornaments intact;
*1264, 1265. Portraits upon wood, from mummies, found in the
Fayﬁm (time of Marcus Aurelius); 1274, 1274 b. Fine wooden cof-
ﬁn, from the end of the Sai'tic period; 1276. Small wooden naos,
with the mummy of an ape. Also numerous cofﬁns from the Sai'tic
and Ptolemaic periods, of less interest.

We now return and descend the Staircase. On the large landing
in front of the room with the royal mummies: *‘1251. Gilded cofﬁn-
lid of Queen Ahhotep (17th Dyn.; comp. p. 101); the body is
enveloped in wings. — On the GrOund Floor we enter —

ROOM LXXXVIII, which contains wooden and stone cofﬁns,
most of which date from the late—Egyptian and Ptolemaic periods.

Between the staircases: 1278. Pink granite sarcophagus of Queen
Nitokris (26th Dyn.). — In the middle of the room: 1279. Broken
cofﬁn-lid of a sacred ram , in black basalt; 1281-1284. Marble
sarcophagi of the Greek period, the last two found in the catacombs
of Alexandria.

A walk in the beautiful *Gizeh Zoological Gardens, in the park,
is refreshing after a visit to the museum. The Zoological Gardens,
open from sunrise till dusk, are entered from the Gizeh road (sta-
tion of the electric tramway, p. 77; adm. 2 pias.; on Sun., when a
military band plays, 5 pias.)

