136 Route 9. SAKKARA. Apis Tombs.

a path enclosed by walls, on which stood Greek statues; a few of these
are still on their original site (but now covered with sand). The great
Sphinx Avenue, which led to the W. through the necropolis to the Sera-
peum, terminatcd in front of the temple of Nectanebos in a semicircular
space adorned with statues of Greek philosophers. But the remains of
all these monuments are now covered with sand, and only the gallery of
Apia Tombs constructed by Psammetikh is accessible to visitors.

Passing through the GATEWAY (Pl. a), we enter a Chamber (Pl. b)
of considerable dimensions, with niches in the bare limestone
walls, where many tombstones of
”I. 2 V W ,. deceased bulls and votive tablets
W??? / (see p. 135) were found. Visitors
%%////% m ;’ light their candles here. The guide
/ now proceeds towards the right.
After a few paces we observe at our
feet a huge block of black granite
(Pl. c), which once formed the lid
of a sarcophagus. Beyond it we
turn to the left, and after ten paces
reach an enormous granite sarcoph-
agus (Pl. (1), which nearly ﬁlls the
passage. The lid and the sarcoph-
agus, which belong to each other,
were probably stopped here on
their way to the vault for which
they were destined, in consequence
of the overthrow of the worship of
Apis. Near the end of this passage
we turn to the left (8.) into another,
which leads us to the —
PRINCIPAL PASSAGE (Pl. A, B),
running parallel with the ﬁrst, from
E. to W., and penetrating the solid
rock. This passage is ﬂanked with
the side—chambers, about 26 ft. in
height, the pavements and vaulted
ceilings of which are constructed of
excellent lVIokattam stone. Twenty-
four of the chambers still contain
the huge sarcophagi in which the
Apis mummies were deposited.
These monster cofﬁns each consist
of a single block of black or red
polished granite or of limestone,
and average 13 ft. in length, 7 ft.
in width, and 11 ft. in height, and
no less than 65 tons in weight. The covers, ﬁve of which are
composed of separate pieces of stone cemented together, have in

 

  
 

B", ’5, ,0. J10

”I! 0, no, so .
W mmue ‘

