Temple. ABU—SIMBEL. 34. Route. 371

W., so that at sunrise the sun’s rays penetrate to the innermost sanc-
tuary. Burckhardt ﬁrst brought to Europe the news of this sanctuary
(1812), and in 1817 Betzoni freed it from the sand which had blown
into it from the W. desert. It was again laid bare by chsius in 1844
and by Mariette in 1869 (when the Empress Eugenie visited it);
wh11e more recently (in 1892) the facade was restored and two walls
built to protect the temple from the sand by Capt. Joh'nstone, R. E.

As we approach the temple, we ﬁrst reach a Fore Conrt (Pl. A),
hewn out of the rock, to which a ﬂight of steps ascends from the
river. At the back of this space rises the imposing facade of the
temple. The front of this terrace is embellished with rows of captives
and a hollow cornice, and is bounded by a balustrade, bearing in-
scriptions in honour of Ammon and ltd-Harmachis. Behind the
balustrade originally stood ﬁgures of hawks and small statues of
kings. Here our attention is attracted by the four *Cotossi ofRamses II.
(Pl. a, b, c, d), hewn out of the cliff against which their backs arc
placed, and arranged in pairs on each side of the entrance to the
temple. Each of these ﬁgures is over 65 ft. in height, i.e. larger than
the Colossi ofMemnon (p. 305); but in spite of the enormous scale the
workmanship is admirable, and the countenances have a singularly
pleasant and intelligent expression. They are best viewed from the
sand-hill to the N. of the temple or from the river. The milll coun—
tenance and characteristic nose of Ramses II. are best preservcd in
the ﬁrst colossus on the S. (Pl. a). The second colossus has un-
fortunately been deprived of its head and shoulders, which now lie
on the ground before it. The upper part of the third colossus- was
patched up under Sethos 1., who added the support under the

right arm.

Upon his head the king wears the double crown; his hands rest upon
his knees; and from his neck bangs a ring bearing the name of Ramses 11.,
which is also carved upon the upper arm and between the legs. To the
right. and left of each colossus and between their legs are smaller ﬁgures
of other members of the royal family. To the left of the first colossus
(Pl. a) is Princess Nebt-tew'e, to the right, Bent-Anat, between the legs an
unidentiﬁed princess. To the left of the second colossus (Pl. b) is Tu-E,
the mother of Ramses 11., to the right is his wife Nefret-ere, and between
his legs, Prince Amen—her-khopshef. On each of the thrones of colossi b
and c, on the sides next the entrance, are two Nile-gods, wreathing the
ﬂoral emblems (papyrus and lily) of Lower and Upper Egypt round the
hieroglyphic symbol for ‘to unite” (comp. p. lxxrx), while below is a_row
of fettered prisoners, those on the left being Negroes, those on the right,
S rians.

y Upon the two S. colossi are a number of Greek, Carian, and Phoenician
inscriptions, of considerable philnlogical and historical interest. These
Were carved by soldiers who had penetrated thus far in the course of
military expeditions. The most remarkable is a Greek inscription on
the left leg of the injured colossus (Pl. b), Written by Greek mercenaries
.sent by Psammetikh I. from Elephantine to Nubia. They had advanced
to the second cataract and wrote this inscription on their way back. The
English translation runs as follows: ——

‘When King Psammetichus came to Elephantine, they wrote this, who
came with Psammetichus, son of Theocles, and proceeded via Kerkis as
far as the river allowed of it. Potasimto led the foreigners, Amasis the

24*

