01X BUILDINGS OF THE MOHAMMEDANS.

hewn stone was used for portions of the ediﬁces; the mosque of E1-
Ahmar, built in 1125, showed the ﬁrst example of a stone facade
embellished with stalactites. The portals began to be placed in
recesses, and small cupolas made their appearance in the interior
of the mosques. The pointed arch, introduced in the mosque of
lbn rl‘ulun, gave place to the Persian ‘keel’-arch. Towards the
close of this period forms began to be adopted, especially in mili-
tary architecture, that seem to have been copied from the build—
ings of the Crusaders in Syria and Palestine. The leading character-
istic of the EYYUBIDE PERronwas the introduction of the ground—plan
of the Persian medreseh, which superseded the previously used
ground-plan of the courts until the ﬁrst Mameluke period. Large
domes began to be built over the mausolea, which as founders’
tombs were placed near the sanctuaries of the mosques.

To the FIRST MAMELUKE DYNASTY we owe a number of huge
ediﬁces, with ground-plans in both the above-mentioned styles and
exhibiting, especially in the facades, the inﬂuence of the archi-
tecture of the Crusaders. Most of these structures date from the
reigns of Bibars and Kalaﬁn, the latter of whom raised the ﬁrst
minaret of stone. Under Nasir endeavours began to be made to
design facades independent of foreign inﬂuence.

Under the SECOND MAMELUKE DYNASTY the mosque-facade at-
tained its zenith, and from this period date the most elegant
achievements of Arabic architecture in Egypt. The facades now
assumed a more homogeneous character, the minarets, of enhanced
elegance ever since the days of Kalal‘m, reached their highest de-
velopment; the domes, now also built of stone (see below), were
richly adorned with sculpture; and the walls, ceilings, pavements,
and even domestic furniture were sumptuously embellished with
mosaics, panels, carvings, and stalactites. The ﬁrst dome built of
stone was that of the mosque of Barkﬁk (p. 65).

The use of written characters has played a prominent part in
the decoration of Arabic buildings at all times, and the art did not
deteriorate in the latest period. Under the Tulunides the closely
written Cuﬁc character was employed, while under the Fatimites
and, still more, under the Eyyubides, the letters became taller and
more slender. The letters themselves and the spaces between them
were embellished with arabesque ornamentation. In the later pe-
riods the cursive character known as Neskbi was used also; and the
t'riezes of intertwined letters dating from the period of the Mame-
lukes frequently rise to the dignity of works of art.

We may now proceed to an examination of the special kinds of
buildings, beginning with the mosques.

Mosques are of two kinds, the dei‘a, lit. an assembly for
prayer, and Mesgid, the place on which the knee is bent for prayer.
The oldest mosques are very simple in plan (comp. the plan of the
mosque of Ibn 'l‘ulﬁn, p. 53). Around a quadrilateral court (Sahn),

