162 Route 13. BUBASTIS. From Cairo

rooms and tolerable Greek cuisine and attendance, cafe with billiard-room
below. — HGTEL CoRBIEEE, an old and less comfortable building, but
with good French cuisine, table-d’héte in the evening.

British Consular Agent, Salt). Felice; German, Rizgallah Khédt'd Bey.

Zalcaztlc, a thriving7 semi-European town, lies on a branch of the
Fresh Water Canal [see below) and on the Mu'izz (Moez) Canal (the
ancient Tanite arm of the Nile, p. 156). It is the capital of the E.
province of Sherlclyeh and seat of a Mudir, and contains 35,700 in-
habitants. The situation of Zak'azik, in the midst of a fertile tract
watered by several canals, and connected with the richest districts
of the Delta, is extremely favourable, and it is a rapidly improving
place. Zakazik forms the chief centre of the Egyptian cotton and
grain trade. Many European merchants have ofﬁces here, and the
large cotton-factories give the place an almost European appearance.
An Arab market is held here every Tuesday.

Zakazik is the junction for branch-railways to Kalyt‘tb (p. 23)
and to Abu Kebir-Mansl‘tra, etc. (see p. 156). Narrow-gauge rail-
way to Sinbeldwin (p. 157).

In the vicinity, near Tell Basia, 1/4 hr. to the 5., lie the ruins of
the ancient Bubastis (Egyptian Per—Basia; the Pibeseth of Ezekiel xxx. 17),
the capital of the Bubastite nome. The remains of the temple of Bastet,
the patron-goddess of the town, were excavated in 188189 by the Egypt-
ologist Naville, at the expense of the Egypt Exploration Fund; but they
are in too ruinous a state to repay a visit. The temple, begun by tbe
pyramid-builders Kheops and Khephren, underwent frequent alterations
at tbe hands of Ramses 11. and other later kings, but owed its ﬁnal
form to the monarchs of the 22nd Dyn., who resided at Bubastis, and to
Nektanebés (Nekht-Har-ehbét). At this period it consisted of four large
halls, of an aggregate length of 600 feet; and in these were celebrated
the joyous and licentious festivals in honour of Bastet. ‘When the Egypt-
ians travel to Bubastis‘, says Herodotus, ‘they do so in this manner. Men
and women sail together, and in each boat there are many persons of
both sexes. Some of the women make a noise with rattles, and some of
the men blow pipes during the whole journey, while the other men and
women sing and clap their hands. If they pass a town on the way, they
lay to, and some of the women land and shout and mock at the women
of the place, while others dance and make a disturbance. They do this
at every town that lies on the Nile; and when they arrive at Bubastis
they begin the festival with great sacriﬁces, and on this occasion more
wine is consumed than during the whole of the rest of the year. All tbe
people of both sexes, except the children, make a pilgrimage thither,
about 700,000 persons in all, as the Egyptians assert.‘

Beyond the next stations, [541/2 M.) Abu el-Akhdar and (55 M.)
Abu Hammad (p. 157) the railway skirts the Fresh Water or Is-
ma'tliyeh Canal. The fertile tract which we now traverse is part of
the Gas-hen of the Bible. During the Turkish régime it fell into a
miserable condition, and at the beginning of the century aﬂorded
a very scanty subsistence to barely 4000 Arabs; but the cultivation
was so rapidly improved by means of the fresh-water canal that it
now supports upwards of 12,000 prosperous farmers and peasants.
Beyond the canal, on the right, is a fertile strip, behind which rile
the desert hills.

The Fresh Water or Isma'iliyeh Canal, constructed in 1858-63 to
supply the towns on the Suez Canal witb drinking-water and enlarged in

