r0 EGYPT. 1. Route. 3

Palace, etc.). Navigazione Generale Italiana (agent near the main
rail. station), every Sat, via Leghorn, Naples (see p. 2), and Messina,
reaching Alexandria on the second Sun. following (fares 281 fr. 60,
193 fr. 10 0.); returning from Alexandria 011 Thurs. afternoon,
reaching Genoa the following Thurs. morning.

5. From MARSEILLES (Hotel du Louvre et de la Paix, Noailles
et Me'tropole, Grand H6tel, eth. Steamers of the Messageries
Maritimes (agent, Rue Cannebihre 16) leave Marseilles every Thurs. at
4pm., reaching Alexandria on Tues. at 4 a.ni. (fares 300 fr., 210 fr.);
returning from Alexandria on Frid. at 4 a.m. Return-tickets, avail-
able for four months, at a reduction of 10 per cent. The India and
China packets (p4) call also at Port Sa'id and Isma‘iliya. —‘P. & 0.’
steamers (agents, Estrine & 00., Rue Noailles 7) leave occasionally
for Alexandria during the season (fares 15L, 9L].

6. From TRIESTE (Hﬁtel de la Ville, Delorme, Europa). Austrian Lloyd
steamers leave Trieste every Thurs. at 11.30 an).7 touching at Brindisi
(see p. ‘2; arriving at 1 p.m. on Frid.), and reach Alexandria on Mon. at
6 am. (fares 237 K. or 161 K. 40 h. in gold); returning from Alexandria on
Sat. at 3 p.m., reaching Trieste at noon on Wednesday. In March, April,
May, and June the returning steamers call at Venice 0n \Ved. morning.

ARRIVAL AT ALEXANDRIA (comp. Map, p. 18]. The perfectly
flat N.E. coast of Egypt, and even Alexandria itself, are not visible
to the steamboat-passenger until very shortly before the vessel enters
the harbour. We ﬁrst observe the lighthouse. The steamer takes a
pilot on board and is steered by him through a narrow, shallow, and
rocky channel (Bdghazj into the harbour. As the passage can only
be effected by daylight, vessels arriving in the evening must ride at
anchor outside until next morning. To the left, on the R613 et-TZn
(‘Cape of Figs’), are the viceroy’s palace and the arsenal. Most of
the steamers lie alongside the quays.

As soon as the brief sanitary inspection is over, the porters and
commissionnaires swarm wildly on deck, vociferating in half—a-dozen
different languages, and with animated gesticulations precipitate
themselves upon the travellers” luggage. The best plan, eSpecial-
ly when ladies are of the party, is to secure the services of one of
Cook’s or Gaze’s agents, who relieves the traveller of all trouble,
assists in clearing luggage at the custom-house, and conducts the
travellers to the special omnibuses for the hotels or railway-station.
These agents are recognizable by the ofﬁcial caps, while the Arabs
in the service of these ﬁrms bear large brass plates on their breasts.
A sum of 15-20 pias. generally covers the total expenses of landing,
etc., but a great deal of trouble is saved by procuring a landing
ticket before leaving home. — The Custom House Examination,
which takes place on shore, resembles the process in Europe.

The chief lines of Steamers to Port Sa'id are the following: —
1. From BRINDISI. Express-steamers of the ‘P. 57 0.’ 00., carry—
ing ﬁrst—cabin passengers only, leave Brindisi every Sun. night in

1*

