Xxviii HEALTH RESORTS.

It has three or four hotels, two European physicians, and a resident
nurse. — The cooking and invalid cooking at the Luxor Hotel are
very good. The Grand Hotel is pleasantly situated, its rooms are
spacious, and its sanitary arrangements good, while the Karnak Hotel
is also well adapted for invalids. —-— The temperature is 6-80 warmer
than at Mena House and Helwan.

Assuc‘m (p. 327) is situated at the First Cataract, also on the
right bank of the river. The prevailing winds are, as at Luxor,
NW. and N. in winter. The mean maximum temperature is 76” in
Dec. and Jan., 82° in Feb, and 91° in March. The mean minimum
for these four months is 55°; and the relative humidity is 35 per
cent by day, 49 per cent at night. Dew does not fall at Assuan.
— Assuan is more under the immediate inﬂuence of the desert,
but it is exposed to a rather stronger wind than Luxor. The air is
bracing, although 4" warmer than at Luxor, and it is purer than the
air of any other Egyptian resort. The importance of the extra
warmth of Upper Egypt must not be lost sight of, in cases where it
is imperative that the action of the skin should beat its highest
level — especially as with this warmth a bracing effect is obtained
from the dryness of the air. The relative humidity is low, partly
on account of the higher temperature and partly because the air is
absolutely drier than that of other resorts. The beauty of the sur-
roundings and the interest of the Cataract lend a peculiar charm to
Assuan. — The accommodation for invalids is very good. Invalid
cooking is Specially attended to and the sanitary arrangements are
good. An English physician is in residence at Assuan in winter.

Invalids who have decided to visit Egypt should remember that
a stay of six weeks, even in Upper Egypt, can hardly be expected
to make a permanent improvement in their health; they should
resolve to spend the whole winter there. The best time to arrive in
Egypt is the beginning of November, for those bound for Helwan or
Mena House, and about Nov. 10th for those going straight to Luxor
or Assuan. The descent of the Nile before the middle of March is
not recommended, for the N. wind is very cold and in some cases
the patient must remain in the cabin or go down by train. An
English physician can be consulted on the larger steamers.

Patients should not leave Egypt until the third week in April
at the earliest. They will ﬁnd at Beyrout, Athens, Corfu, Sicily,
Capri and other points near Naples admirable transition-stations,
with beautiful weather in spring.

Medical Hints. As regards clothing, invalids must remember that
ﬂannel or woollen materials are desirable, as it is often very cold in
Egypt. A fur coat or similar garment is of use. The morning is colder
than the evening, and it is easier to get a chill in the morning than
at night (comp. p. lxi). Warmer clothing or a cloak are useful till
11 a. m., then lighter clothing till nearly sunset, when the cloak

