292 Route 24. THEBES (w. BANK). Shékh'Abrlel-Kurna.

Ascending to the right (N.), we reach *No. 96, the Tomb 'of
Enné, prince and overseer of the granaries of Ammon, who died after
a long life in the reign of Am‘enophis 111. (18th Dyu.).

The facade of the Vestibule is formed by pillars. 0n the ﬁrst Pillar
(to the left) are ﬁshing—scenes; 2nd Pillar: Tillage and harvest (a woman
gleaning; three men mowing). 3rd Pillar: Tillage. 5th Pillar, Enne
at table. 6th Pillar: Enn’é's garden, with his house and storehouse below,
surrounded by a wall. 7th Pillar: Hunting-scene: a hyaena, struck by an
arrow in the mouth, rears on its hind-legs while a dog dashes at it; hares,
mountain-goats, gazelles. Back Wall: to the left of the door, peasants
bringing tribute; adjoining, Enne hunting and spearing ﬁsh. To the right
of the door, Enne receiving tribute (in the upper row are dark-brown
Nubians, including two women carrying their children in baskets on their
backs); Enne receiving the contributions of the peasants (observe the
lines to guide the artist‘s hand); Enne receiving tribute (only two rows
remain, in one of which are necklaces, in the other the metal is being
weighed). —— Corridor. On the left wall is the funeral, with female mourn-
ers: to the right, Enne and his wife seated at a table. On the right
wall, sacriﬁcial scenes. —- In the Recess are the ﬁne statne of the deceased
and three others. The shaft in front of it has been ﬁlled up.

Most of the other graves, all on the mountain-slope, have been
ﬁlled up and are comparatively uninteresting. The *Vmw from the
top includes the Ramesseum and the statues of Memnon and extends
across the Nile to the buildings of Luxor and Karnak, to the left
are the mountains, with the temple of Dér el—bahri at their feet.

We ascend again to the right to No. 16‘, the Tomb of Haremheb, who
administered the entire royal revenue under Thutmosis IV. —— First Room.
To the right and left of the entrance is a banquet—scene, 0n.the left rear-
wall, Haremheb presents to the king the contributions of the peasants:
above are scribes, registering the peasants, who are arranged in companies
and headed by standard-bearers. On the right rear-wall the tribute from
the Syrians and negroes is brought to the king. On the left wall of the
Corridor the funeral rites are shown.

Close to it is No. 17, the Tomb of Zenen, a fan-bearer on the king‘s
right hand, and adjoining this, but turned towards the N., the Tomb of
Amenhotep (No. 102), second prophet of Ammon, and of his wife Roi.
The paintings in this include a scale in Which gold rings are being
weighed, various workmen, one of whom is making a sphinx, clerks with
tables writing out the crops, and a statue with a ram"s head; on the
right, music and dancing.

A little higher to the right is the Tomb of Zenen (No. 104), chief scribe
of the soldiers under Thutmosis IV. -— First Room. On the rear-wall, to
the right, the king receives through Zenen the tribute of the Syrians; ad-
jacent is the deceased inspecting tribute brought to him (in the lower
row are horses). To the left are the king on his throne (obliterated) and
Zenen inspecting the marching of the troops under his command.

To the N. of this tomb lies No. 110, belonging to Senmut, chief architect
of Queen Makere, but in a very ruinous state. Adjacent is the recently
found tomb of another of Makeré’s architects.

We now descend past No. 26 (see p. 291) to the Tomb of Men-kheper-
ra-seneb (No. 34), who was chief priest of Ammon in the reign of Thut-
inosis III., with Asiatics bringing tribnte, handicraftsmen, etc. This tomb
is entered by a very narrow gap. — A little to the right is the tomb
(1V0, 64) of Amenemhét, the scribe of the harvest, with musicians in the
ﬁrst room and burial-scenes in the corridor. — Still farther to the right
is No. 6'0, the Tomb of Entef-oker, with some quaint stucco-reliefs in the
corridOr (to the right, ﬁshing, hunting, handicraftsmen; t0 the left, funeral
rites). — To the S. of Tomb N0. 60, near lelkinson’s House (Pl. c), lie the
tombs of Ahmose, a vizier contemporary with Hatshep~sowet, and Ken,
high—priest of Mut, with uninteresting stucco-reliefs».

