Mereruka. SAKKARA. 9. Route. |51

as to taxes (comp. p. 145); one has been stripped and is being beaten at
a whipping-post. To the right, Mereruka and his wife inspect the offering
of sacriﬁces to the statues of the deceased. —- A 5 contains no reliefs. —
Leaving A 6-A 9 unvisited for the present, we turn to the right and enter—-

A 10, the roof of which is supported by four pillars, bearing incised
reliefs of the deceased. W. Wall (beginning to the left), bedroom scenes.
The bed, standing beneath a canopy. is prepared in presence of Mereruka
and his wife; the deceased, along with his wife, who plays upon a harp,
sits upon a large couch with lions‘ feet, beneath which are two rows of
vases; the deceased Mereruka, seated in an easy chair, receives gifts of
various kinds in vases and boxes from his retainers. N. Wall. Priests of
the dead bring stands loaded with meat and drink to the deceased. E. Wall.
Mereruka and his wife, with attendants; servants bringing sacriﬁcial gifts;
male and female dancers (two lowest rows). 8. Wall. The deceased receiv-
ing sacriﬁcial gifts. — A11. Only a few reliefs are preserved here, to-
getber with the door-stele on the W. Wall, behind which is a Serdab. —-
A12. N. Wall. The deceased receiving gifts; in thc second row from the
bottom are ten barns or storehouses; in the lowest row, treading grapes
and pressing the trodden grspes in a sack. 0n the other walls are the
deceased receiving food and drink, and cattle being slaughtered.

‘A 13, the sacriﬁcial chamber, has six square pillars, on which Mere
ruka is represented standing. In the middle is a stone ring for tethering
the sacriﬁcial ox. N. Wall. In a recess is a statue of Mereruka (front view),
with a sacriﬁcial tablet in front. Mural reliefs (from right to left): Mereruka
inspecting domestic animals, etc. (in the top row. boat-building, in the
four lower rows, gazelles, goats, antelopes, and cattle, in the lowest row,
feeding tame hyaenas); an old man conducted by his two sons; Mereruka
in a sedan-chair, with a large retinne, including two dwarfs leading dogs.
W. Wall (much damaged): ships. S. Wall (bottom row only preserved),
Funeral: entrance to the tomb, with a priest and dancers in front of
it; to the left, men carrying a large chest; sacriﬁcial gifts; four ships,
with several men in the water; the funeral procession with professional
mourners (very graphic). To the left of the door, the deceased, accom-
panied by two Women, sails in a boat through the marshes; crocodiles
and ﬁsh in the water. E. Wall. To the right, harvest operations in pre-
sence of the deceased and his wife and mother. To the left, Mereruka
and his wife playing draughts. Over and beside the door to C 1: Mereruka,
his wife, and mother, with female dancers and musicians; various games.
We now pass through a doorway of modern construction and enter the —-

Rooms MARKED C. —— C1. E. Wall. To the right, poultry-yard, fatten-
iug geese; to the left, goats and antelopes. N. Wall, Meri-Teti, son of
Mereruka, receiving sacriﬁcial gifts from servants. W. Wall. The deceased
hunting in the desert; gazelles and goats. S. Wall. Servants with poultry
and ﬁsh as sacriﬁcial gifts. — 02 has no reliefs. —— C3. E. Wall. In the
two lowest rows, cattle being slaughtered for sacriﬁce; in the upper rows,
Servants bringing gifts, cattle, gazelles, etc. N. e 8. Walls. Meri-Teti at
table; servants bringing gifts. W. Wall. Door-stele, with the deceased’s
name inserted in place of an earlier one; in front is an altar. -—- C4. E. Wall.
Men bearing large chests full of clothing and vessels to Meri-Teti, who
stands on the left. 1V. Wall. In the centre, the deceased, at the sides,
servants bringing jars and boxes; to the right large jars are being brought
on sledges. W. Wall. Attendants with gifts (unﬁnished); square hole
leading to C 5, the Serddb. S. Wall, unﬁnished. — We now return to
A 13 and turning to the right (W.) enter the unvisited ——

Rooms MARKED A (continucd). A 14 leads to several store-chambers
(A 15-A 21), only about 3ft. high; the names are inscribed above the
doors. From A 16 we enter — A 9. W. Wall. In the centre are Mereruka
and his wife, to the right and left are servants bearing pieces of cloth,
vessels of sacred oil, boxes of clotbing, and stands of ornaments; a sledge
with three large jars. E. Wall, similar scenes. —- A 8. Beyond the door-
stele on the W. Wall, in front of which stood an altar, nothing of interest. —
A 6. W. Wall. Feeding of poultry (pigeons, geese, cranes). A narrow cleft

