20 Route 2. ROSETTA.

to traverse the narrow neck of land between the Lake of Abukir
and Lake Edku beyond it, 011 the right, and the Mediterranean on
the left. —- 201/2 M. El-Ma‘adtyeh, near the former Canopic mouth
of the Nile. — 281/2 M. Edlcu, a village situated on a sand-hill to
the right. —— From (36 M.) Bussili a branch-line runs to (8 M., in
1/2 hr.) Etﬁneh, a village on the Rosetta arm of the Nile.

441/2 M. Rosetta (Hotel du Nil, kept by Christo), Arabic Reshid
(a Coptic name), with 14,300 inhab., almost exclusively natives,
lies at the mouth of the Rosetta arm of the Nile (far’ el-gharbz‘), the
ancient Bolbitinic arm (p. lii). During the middle ages and in
more recent times its commercial prosperity was considerable, until
the construction of the Mahmﬁdiyeh Canal (pp. 11, 18) diverted its
trade to Alexandria. The streets contain many small but substantial
houses in a peculiar, half—European style, with projecting stories
and windows towards the outside. The many gardens yield ex-
cellent fruit. Numerous columns from ediﬁces of the heathen
and Christian periods, some of them of granite and some of marble,
are seen lying in various open spaces, particularly in one of con—
siderable size near the river, and a number of others are built into
the houses. The spacious Mosque of Sakhlan is also embellished
with many ancient columns. The hill of Abu Mandﬁr, to the S. of
the town, which commands a ﬁne view, is supposed by some topo—
graphers to have been the site of the ancient Bolbitine, but it is
more likely that this lay to the N. of Rosetta. —-— The fortiﬁcations
to the N. of the town are not shown except by permission of the
commandant.

In 1799 M. Bouchard. a French captain of engineers. discovered in Fort
St. Julian the celebrated Resetta Stone (1). civ), which afforded European
scholars a key to the language and. writing of the ancient Egyptians, which
had been lost for nearly 14 centuries.

From Rosetta to Damietta via the Lake of Burlus, see p. 161; via the
Nile to ‘Atf and Kafr ez-Zat‘yat, see p. 22.

3. From Alexandria to Cairo.

129 M. RAILWAY (comp. p. xvii). Express train in 31/3-33,’4 hrs., fares
23E 1. 5 pias. or 52pias.; ordinary train in 7 hrs., fares 88, 4’4 pias. ; return-
tickets, available for a week, fE 1. 32 pias. or 66 pias. — Travellers should
engage the commissionnaire of the hotel or an agent of Cook or Gaze (p. 6)
to assist in booking their luggage. — The Alexandria and Cairo line, the
ﬁrst railway constructed in the East, was made under said Pasha in 1855.

The railway to Cairo traverses gardens towards the NE, and beyond
Hadra and Sidz‘ Gaber (ﬁrst halt of the express) diverges to the
right from the line to Rosetta [see above). To the left is the ruin of
the Kasr el—Kayasereh (p. 19). It then crosses the Mahmadiyeh
Canal (p. 11) and skirts its S. bank. Three unimportant stations
are passed. To the right lies Lake Mareotz‘s {Behéret Maryat), the
water of which washes the railway—embankment at places during
the period of the inundation.

