Quarters. UALHU. :1. ATOMIC. 0'

(30-40,000l.). But in spite of all its dilapidation, the huge pro—
portions of the building, combined with the masterly execution of
the details, produce an. impression of great majesty.

On leaving this mosque, we proceed to the S.E. (right) to the
circular PLACE RUMI‘SLEH (Pl. E, 6), from which the Mecca pilgrimage
starts (p.1xv), and t0 the Médan Mohammed ‘Ali or Place Me'-
he‘met Ali, about 650 yds. in length. From the middle of the ‘Place’,
opposite the old Helwan station (Gare de Midan), we enjoy a splendid
*View of the Mosque of Mohammed 'Ali (see below).

From the E. side of the Ruméleh a broad carriage-road, passing
two mosques (on the left: the dei’a el-Mahmﬁdiyeh, and beyond
it the dei'a Emir Akhb‘r, with a decaying minaret), and afford—
ing a view of the Tombs of the Khalifs to the left, ascends in
windings to the Citadel. A shorter and steeper route, which may
be ascended on donkey-back, diverges to the right near the be-
ginning of the carriage-road, passing through the Bdb el-‘Azab,
ﬂanked with its huge towers. It was in this narrow and crooked
lane, enclosed by lofty walls, and formerly the chief approach to
the citadel, that the massacre of the Mamelukes took place on 1st
March, 1811, by order of Mohammed rAli (p. xcix). Amin Bey,
the only one who survived, effected his escape by making his horse
leap into the moat, through a gap in the wall.

The Citadel (El-Kal‘a; Pl. E, F, 6) was erected in 1166 by
Saladin (p. 32), with stones taken, according to Arabian his-
torians, from the small pyramids at Gizeh. Of the original structure,
however, nothing now remains except the outer E. wall and a few
towers in the interior. Although the fortress commands the city, its
site is unfavourable in respect that it is itself completely com-
manded by the heights of the Mokattam, rising above it immed-
iately to the 8.; thus in 1805 Mohammed “Ali was enabled, by
means of a battery planted on the Gebel Giyﬁshi (p. 108), to compel
Khurshid Pasha to surrender the Citadel.

' We enter the inner court of the Citadel by the Bdb el-Gedid
(Pl. F, 6; ‘New Gate’), and observe on a terrace before us the ——-

*Gami’a. Mohammed ’Ali (Pl. E, 6), the ‘Alabaster Mosque’, the
lofty and graceful minarets of which are so conspicuous from a~dis-
tance as to form one of the landmarks of Cairo. The building was
begun by Mohammed ‘Ali, the founder of the present Egyptian
dynasty, on the site of a palace which was blown up in 1824; and
in 1857 it was completed in its present form by Sa‘id Pasha (p. C).
The architect was the Greek YasufBoshna of Constantinople, who,
aided by Greek foremen, built it on the model of the Nuri Osmani-
yeh mosque at Constantinople. The columns are built, and the
walls incrusted, with yellow alabaster obtained from the quarries
near Beuisuéf.

The Entrance (Pl. 9), near the centre of the N. side, leads

4 a:

