42 Route 4. CAIRO. '2. The Muski and

features of the trafﬁc (p. 34) that surges up and down the street
from morning till night are still unchanged. -— We ascend the Muski
to the small Rand-Point (Pl. D, 3), and thence follow the SIKKEH
EL-GBDiDEn (RUB Nnnvs) to the insigniﬁcant Ga‘mi'a (mosque)
et-Ashrﬁf, built by Sultan Bursbey in 1422. Here we turn to the
left into the long line of thoroughfare beginning with the Shari‘a
el-Khordagiyeh, and at the ﬁrst cross—street on the right we enter
a large covered bazaar, known as the Khan el-Khalil.

The Khan el-Khalil (Pl. E, 3), which was once the centre of
the commercial trafﬁc of Cairo, is said to have been founded as
early as the end of the 13th cent. on the site of ruined tombs of
the Khalifs by the Mameluke Sultan El-Ashraf Khalil. It forms a
distinct quarter of the city, and is intersected by a main street
and numerous cross-lanes, formed by long rows of stalls of tradesmen
and artizans, all covered over. Here are the headquarters of the
silk and carpet merchants and the vendors of trinkets. We follow the
main avenue, the SIKKET EL-BADISTAN, which contains two graceful
Arab gateways. In the ﬁrst lane on the left is the Bazaar of the
Shoemakers, in which the pretty red shoes of the Arabs may be
purchased. Farther on, to the right of the main street, are some
large Carpet Bazaars (Asadolla Irani, Hagg Ali Khabestari).

The prices of Carpets, like those of other Oriental goods, are liable
to great ﬂnctuation. Those of Baghdad and Brussa (in Asia Minor) are
the most sought after. As soon as a purchaser appears, the dealers spread
their wares over the whole court for his inspection. If the traveller is
pressed for time he had better not attempt to make a purchase, as several
hours must not unfrequently be spent in negotiation before a satisfactory
bargain is concluded. The usual price of a light kuﬁ’z‘yeh (shawl for the
head) is about 50 pias., and of one of heavier (buality, with red and yellow
stripes and interwoven with gold thread, 8 -100 pias. The fringes are
generally loosened and adjusted after the completion of the purchase.
Many of the so-called Damascene silks, and particularly the lighter
kuffiyehs in pleasing colours, are manufactured at Lyons and Crefeld.
The table-covers of red, blue, or black cloth, embroidered with coloured
silk (tE Fla—4), are well worthy of notice. The letters with which they
are adorned rarely have any meaning.

Taking the second cross-lane on the right and passing through
an interesting Arab Gateway, with stalactite vaulting, inscriptions,
serpentine ornamentation, and a few mosaics, we enter the Brass
Bazaar, in which many travellers are tempted to purchase. Oppo-
site the end of the Sikket el-Badistan is the entrance of the mosque
of Seyidna Hosén.

The *Gﬁmi‘a Seyidna Eosén (Pl. E, 3) is the mosque of the
youthful Hosén, who fell at Kerbela in 680 AD. in battle against
the enemies of his father ’Ali, son—in-law of the prophet, who was
slain in 661. Hosén is still highly venerated by Shi'ite Mohammedm
ans (p. lxviii), particularly in Persia. The mosque is of no archi-
tectural importance, while it has been almost completely modern-
ized, even to the introduction of gas—lighting. The chief attraction,
quite inaccessible to all but Muslims, is the mausoleum which is

