37 1 Route 34. ABU-SIMBEL. Great Temple.

Small Hypostyle Hall (Pl. 0), which is 36 ft. broad and 25 ft.
deep. The roofis supported by four pillars. On the S. wall the king,
followed by his wife Nefret-ere holding two sistra, appears offering
incense before the sacred boat with the shrine of Ammon, which is
carried by priests; and on the N. wall is a similar scene before the
boat of Re-Harmachis. Three doors lead from this hall into a long
narrow TRANSVERSE CHAMBER (Pl. D); and thence three other doors
admit to three apartments, the two side ones of which are very small.
The central apartment is the Sanctuary (Pl. E), containing an altar,
behind which are seated ﬁgures of the four deities worshipped in
the temple —— Ptah, Ammon-Ré, the deiﬁed Ramses, and the hawk-
headed Re-Harmachis.

Immediately to the S. of the great temple is a small Rock Temple,
discovered in 1874 by a party of travellers including Miss Amelia
B. Edwards, the well-known writer, who has described it in her
interesting ‘Thousand Miles up the Nile’. This is probably a Birth
House, such as are usually found beside temples of the Ptolemaic
period (p. 231). The ﬁrst chamber, probably built ofbrick and vault—
ed, has disappeared. The second chamber, hewn in the rock, is the
Sanctuary, and is embellished with reliefs in excellent preservation.

Entrance Wall. On each side appears the king entering the temple. -—-
Left Wall The king, followed by his guardian spirit, offers incense to the
sacred boat of Thout. — Rear Wall. To the left, the king presents his own
cartouche to Ammon—Re of Napata; to the right, he oﬂ'ers wine to Re—
Harmachis. —Rtght Wall The king accompanied by his guardian spirit,
sacriﬁces to the boat of Ammon—Harmachis. The king‘s praenomen is
represented behindby the goddessMaat, who is equippedwith special symbols.

In front of this small temple is the tomb of an English ofﬁcer who
died during the Nile Expedition of 1885. A Marble Tablet on the rock
commemorates the battle of Toshlgeh (p. 369) in English and Arabic.

We now return to the great temple and thence follow the good
path leading to the N. along the river-hank, which brings us in a
few minutes to the smaller —

*Temple of Hathor. This temple is hewn in a rock separated by
a valley from the great temple. It also was founded by Ramses I].
and was dedicated to Hathor and to Nefret—
ere, consort of Ramses. The facade' is turned
more to the S. than that of the great temple.
The quay on the river and the approach
thence to the entrance have been washed
away.

1 _ The FAQADE, 90 ft. long and 40 ft. high,
‘ ° % - is hewn in imitation of apylon with receding
”UL W front, crowned by a hollow cornice. The
a, 0 3., " a, "9;: cornice, however, has fallen. On each side
of the narrow entrance, with their backs

against the facade, are three Colossal Statues.

33 ft. in height, representing Ramses II. and Nefret-erE. Beside
these are smaller ﬁgures of the royal children: beside the colossi of

 

 

