DEBOT. 31. Route. 353

on the Blue Nile (p. 390) until the middle ages. We know little
of the Mohammedan principalities established at Derr, Dongola,
Sennaar, and other points in Nubia. In 1821 Isma'il Pasha con-
quered the whole of Nubia for his father, Mohammed rAli, viceroy
0f Egypt. For the later history of the country, the Mahdist rebellion,
and the reconquest by Kitchener, see pp. c-ciii.

31. From Shellal (Philae) to Kalabsheh.
31 M. Comp. the Map, 13. 34.9.

As we leave the harbour of Shellal (p. 336) we have a ﬁne view
of the ruined temples of Philae (p. 336) and of the rocks of the
island of Bigeh (p. 344). To the S.W. of Bigeh lies el-Hesseh, the
largest of the cataract-islands. On the E. bank are the villages of
el—Bdb and Bellal (cl-Mashhad), with picturesque ancient mosques.
On the rocks above Bella] appears the tomb of a shékh. — On the
E. bank, opposite the 8. end of el-Hesseh, is a rock-inscription of
Pepi 1., relating to a victory over the Nubians.

At el— Gutz' our course bends to the S.W., afterwards returning
to its S. direction. The scenery becomes less wild, and a narrow
strip of verdure appears on each bank. —— To the W. is the Gebel
Shemt el- Walt. From time to time we observe ancient dykes of
huge stones (on both banks), and on the summits of the higher
hills are ruined guard-houses, dating from the Mahdist insurrection.

61/2 M. Debbt, a village-community on both banks. On the W.
bank are traces of an ancient quay and the village of el-Birbeh,
through which we pass on our way to the —

TEMPLE OF DEBéT, situated to the 5., near the river. This
temple was built by the Nubian king Ezekher-Amon, a contem-
porary of the earlier Ptolemies, and it was enlarged by Ptolemy
Philometor. We pass through three Doorways, on the second of
which appear the winged sun-disk and a much damaged Greek in-
scription in favour of Ptolemy Philometor and his consort Cleopatra.
About 42 ft. beyond the third doorway is the small temple proper.

The Vestibule, the facade of which was borne by four columns
with rich ﬂoral capitals, connected by screen-walls, was destroyed
along with a side-chamber by an earthquake in 1868. The reliefs
in the interior of the hall showed Augustus or Tiberius in presence
of various deities. The First Hall was decorated with reliefs by
Ezekher-Amon. On each of the right (N.) and left (8.) walls are
eight reliefs in two rows, exhibiting the king sacriﬁcing to various
deities. Over the door is the votive inscription of Ezekher-Amon.
Thence we proceed through an Antechamber (Without decoration) to
the Sanctuary, which contains a granite naos, broken in two, dating
from Euergetes II. and Cleopatra (p. lxxxix). The adjoining chambers
contain nothing of interest. The foundations of the entire temple
are now exposed; the ancient pavement lay about 6 ft. higher than

BAEnnKmn‘n Emmi: ﬁthh 23

