to dei Halfa. Wfim HALFA. 35. Route. 377

It contains a post and telegraph ofﬁce, a small bazaar, and a pretty
mosque, and, including the Nubian village of Dabrésa on the N.,
has 2675 inhabitants. Tewfikiyeh is the starting-point of the mili—
tary railways to Kermeh (New Dongola, p. 382) and Khartﬁm
(p. 385). The station is near the hotel.

About 11/4M. to the S. of Tewfikiyeh is the British Camp (called
Géger by the natives), the base for the campaign against the
Mahdists (donkeys obtainable at the hotel). It has lost much of its
military importance, but is still useful as a station on the way to
the Sudan. It is surrounded by walls and forts and contains the
residence of the commandant, large workshops, a railway, etc.,
besides the partly disused barracks and stores. The mudir, who
issues the licences to carry ﬁre-arms (comp. p. 381), also lives here,
about 200 yds. to the W. of the military railway—station. — About
11/4 M. farther to the S. is the insigniﬁcant village of dez’ Hal/‘11.

On the W. bank, opposite wadi Halfa, a little to the N. of a
large and conspicuous sycamore -tree, lay the ancient town of
Beheni, the site of which may be reached by boat from Tewfikiyeh
in 1-2 hrs. (according to the wind). The remains of two temples are
still extant. The NORTH TEMPLE, dating from the beginning of the
12th Dyn., was built of brick, with the exception of the pillars in
the ﬁrst hall and the jambs of the entrance-door. It is much dam-
aged and sanded up. The SOUTH TEMPLE, about 50 yds. distant, was
exhumed in 1887 by Col. Smith, but is again largely covered with
sand. It is in better preservation than the other, its sandstone walls
and pillars still rising to the height of 5—6 ft. This S. temple was
built by Thutmosis III. and Hatshepsowet and dedicated to Horus
of Beheni. The cartouches and ﬁgures of Hatshepsowet have been
systematically defaced or converted into those of Thutmosis II.
(p. lxxxii). The temple stands from E. to W. Close to the river-
bank, where traces of a quay may be made out, is a brick Pylon,
the tower of which rises like a massive pillar. Behind is a large
Hall, the present form of which is due to a reconstruction, probably
at the beginning of the 20th Dynasty. The pillars and columns on
which the roof rested bear not only the original reliefs and inscrip—
tions of Thutmosis III. but also numerous hieroglyphic inscriptions
added by ofﬁcials of the Middle Empire. There are also Greek,
Carian, and Ethiopian inscriptions. On one pillar is a long and
pompous inscription celebrating the deeds of Thutmosis III. Behind
this hall stood the Temple Proper, the back of which adjoined the cliff,
While on the other three sides were colonnades With ‘proto-Doric’
columns. Within were a Transverse Hall, communicating with
the Sanctuary, and several other chambers. The admirable mural
reliefs, many of which retain their colouring, represent the Pharaoh
in presence of the gods. — Beside the temples lie the ruins of the
ancient town, and on a rock to the W. are inscriptions of the Middle
Empire. In the ground close by are ancient graves.

