378 Route35. SECOND C-ATARA'CT.

*Excnnsron TO THE SECOND CATARACT (5-6 hrs). # The camels
or donkeys should be sent in advance to the ruined temples of Beheni,
Whither the traveller proceede by boat (see p. 377); or the start may be
made from the W. bank immediately opposite Tewfilgiyeh.

The route at ﬁrst skirts the stream, then turns inland towards
the desert, and ﬁnally, gradually ascending, returns to the stream
shortly before the cataract is reached.

The Second Cataract is little inferior in scenic beauty to the
First Cataract at Assuan. It lies at the N. end of the gorge of the
Rain el-Hagar (‘belly of stones’), which begins at the island of
D511, about 90 )1. to the S., and through which the river descends in
a series of rapids, over rocks of graywacke. greenstone, and granite,
forming numerous islands in its course. The best point of view is
the abrupt rocky hill of Abusir, on the W. bank. At the foot of the
hill, contrasting strongly with the green of the tamarisk—trees. lies
a chaos of glistening black boulders, through which the river forces
its way in foaming cataracts, especially ﬁne at the time of the in-
undation. In the distance to the N. are the white houses and slen-
der minaret of Tewfikiyeh 0n the E. bank, and the great sycamore
and the pylon of the S. temple of Beheni (p. 377) on the W. bank;
to the W., beyond the broad river, rise the mountains of the desert,
to the S. lie the rocky islets among the rapids. Numerous modern
travellers have left inscriptions on the rocks of Abusir.

From Wadi Ealfa to Semneh.

371/2 M. — \ visit to the natur..]1y beautiful and historically interest-
ing N. part of the Data el- Hagan (see abox e) requiies 4 or 5 days at least.
Camels may be hired at Wadi Halfa for about 17 pias. each per day
including the drivers wages and food. A tent and provisions are also
necessary. — Under certain conditions travellers may proceed by the
military railway to Sarras (p. 382) and ride thence on donkeys to Kummeh
(p 379), but though the journey in this case might be accomplished in
2- 3 days, this method is not recommended.

By the W. bank to the rocky hill of Abusir, see above. Thence the
route leads through the desert to (1 hr.) the village of Matﬁga, on
the river. In another hour we reach Jlirgz'ssch, a fortress of the
Middle Empire, situated on a steep rock close to the Nile. Within
the girdle-wall, which is built partly of sun—dried bricks and partly
of rubble, are the scanty ruins of a small temple erected by User~
tesen II]. On the island of Dabeh, nearly opposite, are some ancient
Egyptian fortiﬁcations. — The route leads round the steep rocks
lying to the S. of Mirgisseh and returns to the river-bank through
a picturesque deﬁle. On the opposite (E) bank lies 'Abkeh. In
11/2 hr. we reach the straggling village of Gemméh. with some
ruined Christian domed tombs, several of which contain remains of
frescoes and inscriptions.

The second day’s march leads through the desert for the ﬁrst
six hours. We regain the river opposite the railway—station of
Sam-as (p. 382). Numerous rocky islets interrupt the stream; on

