 

 

omnnox ON MUMMIFICATION. 185

then, probably, unknown. In the mummies of the 12th
dynasty, this material is already in use. The bodies are par-
tially gilded, and great luxury introduced in the decorations;
and thus the relative antiquity of mummies can be deduced
from the successive fashions of embalmment. Of these the
epoch of bitumen forms a grand era, at the 15th dynasty; for
then this substance, which was unknown to the Egyptians prior
to the conquests of Assyria by the early Pharaohs of the 15th
dynasty, began to be used. Mr. Birch has discovered data
which indicate very distinctly the epoch when bitumen began
to be used in mummiﬁcation. Among the articles of tribute
exacted by Thothmes 111., in the 16th century before Christ,
from the conquered princes of Nineveh, Shinar, Naharine,
Babel, and the Mesopotamian provinces, which are recorded on
the tablet of Karnak, now in the Louvre, it is said that the
chief of the country brought, among other tributes to the Pha-
raoh, 2050 ingots of bitumen. Now as bitumen is an Asiatic
production, abundant near the Euphrates, it was inaccessible
to the Egyptians until Assyria was conquered by the Pharaohs
of the 18th dynasty.” '

“ The dried corpse of the humble quarryman was merely
saturated with natron, baked in an oven, swathed sometimes in
‘ woollen rags, and covered with palm branches and papyrus
matting; while on the body of the wealthy priest were lavished
the most expensive spices and perfumes; after which it was
wrapped in many hundred yards of the ﬁnest tissue, and placed
in three coﬂins, all sculptured, painted, gilded, and enamelled,
with a superﬂuity of extravagance. The great majority, how-
ever, belonged to the middle c .”

“ Every provincial temple was provided with an establish-
ment for the purpose of mummiﬁcation. The bodies were
delivered to the priests to be embalmed, and after seventy days
restored to their friends to be carried to the place of deposit.
The paintings in the tombs represent funeral processions, in
which we see the mummy transported in cars, or borne on

N O

 

 

 

