 

 

snconn AND THIRD Praamns. 105

discovered by Colonel Howard Vyse, the topmost of which is
angular. Wilkinson supposes that the sole purpose of
these chambers is to relieve the pressure on the King’s
Chamber, and here was discovered the cartouche,
containing the name of the founder, Suphis, identical
with that found upon the tablets in Wady Maghara in
the desert of Mount Sinai.

The second pyramid, generally attributed, though without
hieroglyphical conﬁrmation, to Cephrenes, is more ancient and
ruder in its masonry than that of Checps. Standing on higher
ground, it has from some points an appearance of greater height
than that of the great pyramid, and its dimensions are hardly
less stupendous. It is distinguished by having a portion of the
smooth casing yet remaining, with which all the pyramids were
once covered, and it is a great feat to climb up this dangerous
slippery surface to the summit. Yet there are plenty of Arabs
who for a triﬂing beckshish will dash “ down Cheops and up
Cephrenes ” with incredible celerity. Its interior arrangements
diﬂ'er from those of the great pyramid, in that in accordance
with Lepsius’s theory, the sarcophagus of the builder is sunk in
the ﬂoor, and not placed in the centre of the ediﬁce. The glory
of re-opening this pyramid is due to the enterprising Belzoni.

The. third pyramid is of much smaller dimensions than the
two others, but beautifully constructed. It was the work, as is
proved by the discovery of his name, of Mycerinus or Men-
cheres, whose wooden cofﬁn in the British Museum, very
simple and unornamented, as well as the desiccated body sup-
posed to be that of the monarch himself, has probably attracted
the notice of our readers. This pyramid is double, i. e. cased
over with a distinct covering. Besides these principal ones,
there are still standing other and smaller pyramids, more or less
entire, grouped about these larger ones, and forming a portion
of this stupendous Necropolis of Memphis. '

At what 'period these sepulchral monuments were ﬁrst
violated is uncertain. Some are inclined to attribute their

a ' ‘

 

 

