 

 

INTERIOR or A HOUSE. 75
others in ,the angles: these are all covered with materials in
richly ornamental patterns more or less expensive. The roof-
ing of the “ leewan,” as will be observed, is supported by
carved beams, which with the intervening ﬂat space are decor-
ated and gilt in the richest manner. Of .the windows, some are
glazed, and are richly ornamented with stained glass, represent-
ing ﬂowers, fruits, and fanciful objects ; others, looking into the
verdure of the garden, have simply open lattice or iron work.
A remarkable and picturesque peculiarity is the decorated
lantern above the fountain, made to open and shut at pleasure
by means of a string, serving for the admission of air. A
common device for this object is a sloping shed of boards above
an opening seen on the roofs of the houses, serving to direct the
current of wind into the apartments below. A similar plan
for the same purpose was adopted by the ancient Egyptians.

In the lateral recesses of this extensive room are different
cupboards, or rather cabinets, fancifully inlaid with pearl, and
having small panels of delicate and intricate carving ; while the
ﬂat spaces of the wall above are painted in the grotesque
style resembling the devices on old tapestry, with representa-
tions of kiosques and other objects, very badly executed.

It is in the Mandérah that the master receives his guests,
who, slipping of their outer shoes of red on the ﬂoor of the
leewan, step up in their yellow slippers without soles which
are worn under them to the apartment above, and take their
seats on the divan: whereupon pipes and coffee are always
brought for their refreshment.

The arrangements of the harem or upper apartments of the
family are minutely described in the work of Mr. Lane. In the
larger houses it always comprises the luxury of a bath.

Haunted houses are not uncommon in Cairo; the Jinn or
Genii, who ﬁgure in the Arabian Nights, being the most dread-
ed visitants. During the month of Ramad’han, these Jinn, Mr.
Lane tells us, are supposed to be conﬁned in prison ; and hence,
on the eve of the festival which follows that month, some of the

 

 

