 

-_._._.

4—

 

 

AN AQUATIC BEGGAR. 119

a manner full of impressive solemnity. An old dervish, much
honoured, seemed to be the leader of their devotions.

Next day the breeze sprung up and we ran together under
Gebel e Tayr, or the “ mountain of the birds,” a range of precipi-
tous cliffs coming down sheer to the water, broken into ledges
which aﬂ'ord shelter to a vast number of water-fowl. On the
bleak exposed level above is a Captic convent, or rather enclosed
village, which is famous for a race of aquatic Christian mendi-
cants, who, darting down the steep cliﬂ's from their aerial perch,
plunge into the river, and beset the boats of travellers with
inportunate clamour. My red cross made me a palpable mark,
and accordingly it was not long ere I beheld one of the fraternity
rapidly cleaving the waves, shouting “ Christiano Howaga,”
though how he could have descended the perpendicular pre- .
cipice I sought in vain to discover. Striking out most vigor-
ously, he soon came up with the boat; brandy was his ﬁrst
entreaty, then bread, bottles, and above all, beckshish. He was
a stalwart rogue, and as he stood, in puris naturalibus, upon the
deck, I thought that had there been any on board to whom it
would have signiﬁed, I would have had him soundly switched
with the corth and kicked into his favourite element, notwith-
standing our Christian brotherhood : as it was, the incident was
amusing enough, and we gave him a little of all he asked for;
the brandy he took internally, the bread he balanced on his
head, the piastres he put into his mouth, and holding a bottle
in one hand he contrived, though thus encumbered, to steer
his course with the 'other into a cranny of the rocks, and
scrambled up, the Lord knows how, to his abode, amid the
loud shouts of the admiring boatmen. A recent traveller,
Mr. Curzon, has solved the mystery of the ascent, having
climbed up to the convent by a very curious natural tunnel
which perforates the precipice.

This morning with a light breeze we reached Minyeh, de-
cidedly the prettiest looking town upon the Nile: there is
an old white tomb under a sycamore at one end of the place,

 

 

