 

 

188 APPROACH TO KARNAK.

him, and below appears a sad array of fated captives. Terror
and inexorable sternness are the qualities with which the
sculptor has evidently laboured to invest his hero. This is the
most elaborate among the number of similar scenes at Thebes,
but it is so high above the ground that its details are not to be
made out with ease, and the effect of the sculpture is much im-
paired by the lines of the masonry. Still it is indeed mag-
niﬁcent.

Leaving Luxor, I now mounted on a donkey, and struck
across the plain, which was formerly covered with the buildings
of the city, towards Kamak, the last and crowning marvel of
all Thebes. An avenue about a mile in length formerly con-
ducted from Luxor, bordered by a double row of sphynxes, of
which few traces now remain. There must have been some-
thing very awful and impressive in this long avenue of these
sacred and mysterious ﬁgures, uniting the head of a human be-
ing to the body of a lion, emblematic of the union of wisdom
and power——like the similar ranges of upright stones which led
to the rude Druidical temples of Avebury on the Wiltshire
downs, it must have prepared the mind of the worshipper for
the subduing grandeur of the more sacred enclosures to which
it led. None of these singular statues now remain perfect, but
here and there a fragment appears. Following this long and
majestic approach, we reach at length a point at which the ﬁrst
view of Karnak burst upon us. A noble pylon, or gateway, oc-
cupies the centre of the ﬁeld of ruin; behind it is seen the small
temple built by Rameses IV.; to the right, among palm trees,
appear the remains of a majestic propylon, which formed the
entrance to a succession of ruined courts by which the great
temple was approached on this side, of which, quite in the back-
ground, a small portion is visible, together with its obelisk.
The pylon, a specimen of the later or Ptolemaic style, is cer-
tainly one of the very ﬁnest specimens of Egyptian architecture
remaining. Nothing can exceed the majestic simplicity of its
colossal proportions—the beautiful relief of the cornice. It

 

 

