 

 

 

 

EXCURSION TO THE PYRAMIDS. 91

It is singular that this neighbourhood, the probable scene of
the Exodus of the Israelites, persecuted by the Egyptian
Pharaohs, should, in the reign of the Ptolemies, have aﬂ'orded a
refuge for certain of their descendants from the persecution of
Antiochus, king of Syria. Onias, son of the high priest of
Jerusalem, took refuge at Alexandria, and besought Ptolemy to
grant him permission to build a temple like that of Jerusalem,
and to raise up a frontier defence against the aggressions of his
Syrian rival. The permission was granted. The temple of
Onion was ﬁnished, other small cities were grouped around it,
and a considerable body of Jews established themselves in the
vicinity of their ancient seat of Goshen, where they remained
till a late period. The site of Onion is most probably at Tel el
Yehood, or ‘ the mound of the Jews,’ about twelve miles north-
east of Heliopolis.

From the height of the citadel and from every open space
about Cairo, we had seen the pyramids towering in the dis-

tance for several days; we now prepared to visit them. As the

distance is not great, some parties go early in the morning
and contrive to return by night; others, camping out the ﬁrst
night, proceed the next day to Sakhara, the site of Memphis,
but the increasing inundation, by‘covering the plain, rendered
this latter part of the expedition almost useless. We deter-
mined, however, to pass a night at Ghizeh, and to see the sun
rise from the summit of the great pyramid. But little prepara-
tion is needful, some of the excavated tombs serving as a
nightly shelter, and the neighbouring Arabs furnishing milk
and other necessaries. Some cold provisions and a few candles
were all with which we chose to encumber ourselves. We set .
forth from Cairo in the midst of one those afternoon tempests
of hot suﬂ'ocating dust which are among its most tormenting
plagues, penetrating into the inmost recesses of the houses.
The air came in hot gusts like blasts from the mouth of a fur-
nace; the impalpable sand whirled and eddied through the
narrow crowded streets, ﬁlling the mouth, ears, and eyes, and

 

 

 

