 

 

72 SULTAN BEBKOOK.

Kaitbay. The lofty minaret, with its successive stages, taper-
ing gracefully to the summit, and encircled by galleries, is a
beautiful specimen of this unique invention of Mahommedan
'art in its highest enrichment, and the dome is perhaps un-
equalled for its graceful proportion and its delicate detail, the
whole producing an effect at once grave, elegant, and fanciful,
an original combination which no one at all affected by art,
nor even one of ruder stamp, can possibly behold without a
feeling of exquisite delight.

E. ’Zaher Berkéok, whose ashes repose within another ﬁne
mausoleum, was the ﬁrst of the dynasty of Circassian Mem-
looks, raised, as Gibbon informs us, by the favour of his
military comrades from slavery and imprisonment to the throne
of Egypt. He was a conspicuous actor at a stirring and
momentous period. The redoubtable Timour had already
overran Persia, Tartary, and India, when he was called
back from his distant career of conquest by the informa-
tion he received of the revolt of the Christians of Georgia,
and the ambitious designs of the Turkish sultan, Bajazet, whose
submission, and that of his Egyptian allies, he required in a
tone of haughty and contemptuous menace. Bajazet returned
scorn with scorn, while Berkook “ braved the menaces, cor-
responded with the enemies, and detained the ambassadors of
the Mogul. The ﬁrst engagement at Aleppo was favourable to
the arms of Timour, who advanced with his destroying army as
far as Damascus, where he was rudely encountered and almost
overthrown by the armies of Egypt. A retrograde motion was
imputed to his distress and despair: one of his nephews de-
serted to the enemy, and Syria rejoiced in the tale of his defeat,
when the sultan was driven by the revolt of the Mamelukes to
escape with precipitation and shame to his palace at Cairo.
The check thus received by Timour rolled back awhile from
Syria and Egypt the devastating tide of conquest, although the
fatal battle of Angora, fought two~years afterwards, delivered
the Turkish sultan into the hands of the insulting victor;

 

 

 

 

 

 

"‘4; *ﬁiﬁr ...r

 

