 

 

‘uosomi: or aux. 31133 133 SHEMA. 87

something I thought was deﬁcient, my ideas of a perfect oriental
garden were not realized. I wanted. to see a wilderness of
rustling shades, overarched by the immense green leaves of the
banana, and the tall rustling palm, with dense thickets of other
trees, intermingled with an inﬁnite variety of those delicious
exotics, covered with brilliant ﬂowers, which makes the sense
ache with their voluptuous fragrance ; a perfect paradisaical
bower, such as might be created from the rich elements of east-
ern vegetation, with kiosques of the genuine Arabian architec-
ture, and fountains which might maintain perpetual coolness.
0f such I have often dreamed among the alleys of Rhoda.
These beautiful gardens were formed at the expense of the late
Ibrahim Pasha, whose palace, and harem are on the opposite or
Cairo bank of the channel, buried in trees and gardens, which
extend all the way to Cairo, in place of the old dust heaps which
formerly stood near, and which were removed by his orders.
These are indeed noble improvements.

Between Rhoda and Cairo is a dreary half-desert region,
where however there are various objects of interest which may
be glanced at on the way back. There is 'the mosque of Amr,
to which allusion has been made, the oldest in Cairo and its
environs, and which displays small round-headed arches, ap-
parently copied from the Byzantine, before the introduction of
the pointed arch; the Kasr es Shema, the strong-hold of the
Byzantine power, from which the Saracen conqueror wrested
Egypt. It presents extremely high and apparently impregnable
walls, with gates admitting to the maze of Coptic buildings
within, some of which are elevated on the rampart itself. It
contains several churches and a convent, in which is a grotto
traditionally the retreat of the holy family when in Egypt. It
is indeed a curious nest. And besides this the Copts have other
convents in the neighbourhood. It is impossible for the most
ordinary physiognomist not to be struck with the heavy,
sullen, and somewhat sinister look of this singular people, so
diﬂ'erent from either the Turkish or Arab race. Perhaps some-

 

 

