 

 

 

 

 

 

REMOVAL on THE SAND. 215

negro cast, a cross, as it were, of the African with the Asiatic
blood. Of these gigantic statues there were originally four,
but the third from the north, having been shattered by a
rocky avalanche descending from the mountain above, has now
a. large portion of his head in his lap. Between the legs, and
on either side of the colossi, are female ﬁgures of the na-
tural size.

The whole face of the temple, as high as to the very heads of
the statues, had been, as it is supposed for a period of many
centuries, covered up with an enormous mass of sand, which,
blown from the desert in the rear of the rocks, had gradually
accumulated so as to form a mountain sloping gradually down-
wards for two or three hundred yards towards the banks of the
Nile. The entrance was, at the period of Irby and Mangles’
travels, entirely concealed. On arriving at Abusimbal they
mustered a tolerably strong force, and were well armed; to
which circumstance, as well as to their conduct and resolution,
they owed their safety during the stormy scenes that ensued.
Their ﬁrst step was to propitiate the local chiefs with their pre-
sents; one of these, however, being disappointed that his own
was of less value than that of his brother, henceforth threw
every possible diﬁculty in their way. Fifty men were hired by
day labour to work at the removal of the sand, but they wrought
so slowly, that it was necessary to conclude a bargain with them
to “ open the temple” for a stipulated sum. Having, h0wever,
obtained one half of the money in advance, they soon after re-
fused to proceed, and the enterprising explorers were reduced
to undertake the work themselves. This, to the astonishment
of the natives, they persisted in, not without being inter-
rupted and threatened in a variety of ways, until at length
their workmen were induced to resume their share of the ex-
hausting labours. After labouring for a fortnight, eight hours
in" the day, under an average heat of from 112 to 116 Fahr.,
they had dug down to the top of the entrance doorway, when
their mutinous crew endeavoured to compel their departure.

 

 

