 

 

54 THE BAZAARS.

iron rule of Mehemet Ali has tended to increase it. In the
hope of escaping the ruthless conscription by which the pasha
recruited his armies, parents were led to deprive their children
of one of their eyes. The pasha, however, was not to be
balked of his prey, and, at the suggestion, it is said, of one of
those Frank advisers, who sharpen by the Machiavelian ex-
pedients of European intellect the lawless cruelty of oriental
despotism, these unfortunate wretches, with a reﬁnement of
cruel irony, were organized into a one-eyed corps ! .

Through a labyrinth of these narrow streets we advance into
the Bazaars. These, in an oriental city, are the great gathering
place of the population, the centre of trafﬁc, the seat of ﬂying
rumours, and the lurking place of secret conspiracies. They
consist of one main avenue running through the centre of the
city, with endless and intricate branches, generally covered, and
some of them sunk into a twilight obscurity. The crowd that
pours through them is incessant. Each trade has its separate
‘ sook ’ or quarter, and there are numerous ‘ Wekalehs ’ or
Khans, for the reception of merchandise, large courts opening
from the bazaars, surrounded with buildings, and defended by
strong gates, which are kept closed at night. The whole scene
is marvellously original; every turn presents us with a fresh
picture of oriental life and manners. Indeed, to wander at
random about these bazaars is one of the most delightful things
I am acquainted with. Charles Lamb remarks, that in his
dreams he used to ramble through all the cities of the East, to
mingle with their strange and turbaned crowds, with a sense of
vivid delight quite indescribable. Something of this singular
intoxication is experienced by him who for the ﬁrst time visits
the streets of Cairo.

I have selected for representation a group sketched on the
spot, at the door of a coffee-house. At a well-frequented corner
sits a Jewish money-changer, whose sordid dress, black turban,
and reddish hair, mark him out as one of that despised but
still most inﬂuential race, who often, in Eastern as in Western

 

 

