 

206 ASCENT or THE cannac'rs.

of its waters to fertilize the great valley of Egypt, extending
hence seven hundred miles down to the Mediterranean.

On our way back we touched at the island of Elephantine,
whose present appearance is very different from its ancient one,
its site having been once occupied, like that of Philae,’ by sacred
buildings, of which but a few fragments have escaped; the prin-
cipal of them being a small granite gateway of the time of Alex-
ander, on the southern part of the island, which is covered with
mounds of ruin. The greater part of this delightful site is now
overgrown with corn and interspersed with palm groves.

The rising Nile, it was thought, would enable us to ﬂoat
lightly over the rocks and shoals upon which boats often bump
at low water; accordingly we made our arrangements for ascend-
ing the river. The “ Captain of the Cataracts,” as he is called, a
Nubian from the village of Philae, was sent for; it being his
business (cum privilegio) to insure the safe passage of all boats
passing and repassing them. A bargain was soon struck; and
early in the morning he came on board with his men. His ap-
pearance at once inspired conﬁdence in his capacity and resolu-
tion ; he stood at the helm a tall, digniﬁed ebony statue, in a long
blue robe and white turban; his half—naked men be stationed
in different parts of the boat, our own crew were to work the
sails as ordered, and under such a leader they seemed inspired
with a degree of alacrity very different from that ‘ laissez
faire ’ indifference and invincible laziness which had hitherto
been our daily torment. On one of the brightest of tropical
mornings our broad sails were thrown out to the Etesian wind;
we ﬂew rapidly through the narrow strait between the castled
crag of Assouan and Elephantine, and soon reached the out-
posts of that maze of rocky islets through which the noble river
forces its tumultuous passage from Nubia into Egypt. All was
now attention; as we entered the foaming currents, the quick
eye of the master-pilot glanced from rock to rock, the man at
the bows watched the turn of every eddy; quickly and dexter-

" Wilkinson.

 

 

