 

 

52 cameras mums.

of all luxuries. Whoever pleases, says Olin, ascends the two
or three steps from the street, takes a metal cup through an
aperture in the gilt iron work, and drinks his ﬁll; the cup,
however, being fastened by a chain just long enough to allow
the Arab to quench his thirst, without indulging another of his
propensities quite as strong, and hardly less general. In the
centre of the view is an Arabian lady “ riding the high ass,” as
Mrs. Poole calls it; she is seated after the manner of men
upon a lofty upbuilt saddle covered with the richest carpets.
The ass which she bestrides is one of the largest size, very
carefully groomed, and full of spirit and vivacity, with an eye
like a gazelle’s, quite realizing the “ Sprightly ” of the Arabian
Nights. It is gaily adorned with tassels and trappings, and
conducted through the' press of the throng by a stout well-
dressed servant. The lady herself is enveloped in a wrapper of
rich black silk, which disguises her whole person, leaving only
the face, which is half covered by a white muslin veil, conceal-
ing all but the lustrous dark eyes, which seem to thrill through
you in the dusky obscurity of the street. Sometimes you en-
counter a whole harem thus mysteriously equipped, when the
passengers studiously avert their looks, and carefully stand
against the side walls to make way for them. Behind the lady
advances a huge camel, laden with enormous burdens, which
fairly clears the causeway. An encounter with one of these
animals is indeed anything but agreeable. Sometimes he is
laden with water skins, wet and dripping upon the earth,
sometimes with baskets of large square stones, and what is
worst of all, with long dangling beams of timber which droop
down and scrape the walls on either side. Heedless of all ob-
struction, on he stalks with his slow, rolling, not unmajestic
gait, leaving it to the rest of the passengers to accommodate
themselves to his gyrations as they are best able,—not to be
effected without much dexterity, and withal an occasional
tumble. In addition to the aristocratic lady seen in the view,
are some of the lower ranks on foot. Their gait and general

 

 

 

