 

 

80 ADVENTURE AT Damascus.

members of the Wesley family, that it might almost be taken
for an oriental version of it, with the sole difference of the
catastrophe in the latter. And what is curious in both in-
stances, the cause of the mysterious noises appears to have
eluded all research. We should observe, that Mr. Lane was at
length compelled to leave the haunted house, and the next
comer was even more tormented.

We have had some very lively descriptions of the interior of
the harem, and of the habits of its fair inmates, from English
ladies who have been admitted, but particularly from Mrs. Poole.
But I never met in Cair0'with any parallel to the following
curious adventure which befell me some years since at Damascus,
and which is not without interest here, as it is an infraction of
Mahommedan custom in both cities, of which I never re-
member to have heard another instance.

It should be observed that the inhabitants of Damascus have
always enjoyed the distinction, so honourable to the more
orthodox Moslem, of being, after those of Mecca, the most
special haters of the Giaour; and this pious and proper aver-
sion has been increased and kept alive by the annual passage of
the great Mecca caravan. Every body knows the Turkish
proverb—“ If thy neighbour has been once to Mecca, have a
care of him; if twice, deal not with him; but if three times,
avoid him as thou wouldest the plague of Allah l ” The native
Christian inhabitants were always under the harrow, and but
one single and obscure European agent had ever been able,
hitherto, to naturalize himself. The visits of travellers,
although made in the most rigorous oriental garb, were always
attended with risk. Frankland, though he travestied himself
in robe and turban, could not disguise his dog, a wiry little
English terrier, which was assaulted by the Damascene curs,
and, but that his master seized and rolled him up in his
garments, and rode off with him to the Latin convent, followed
by a host of howling enemies, would have led to his detection
and insult. Even so late as the time of Lamartine, “ the Frank

 

 

