 

 

L_

 

94 run seurnx.

the present day by the name of Aboolhol, or “ the father of
terror ” or immensity.

In its state of pristine perfection, no single statue in Egypt
could have vied with it. When by the labours of M. Caviglia,
the lower part of the ﬁgure, which had been covered up by the
sand, was at length uncovered for a while by laborious and
Sisyphus-like toil, (the sand slipping down almost as fast as it
could be removed,) it presented the appearance of an enorm-
ous couchant Sphynx, with gigantic paws, between which
crouched, as if for protection, a miniature temple with a plat-
form, and ﬂights of steps for approaching it, with others lead-
ing down from the plain above. A crude brick wall protected
it from the sand. It is hardly possible to conceive a more
strange or imposing spectacle than it must have formerly pre-
sented to the worshipper, advancing as he did along this avenue
of approach, conﬁned between the sand-walls of the ravine,
and looking up over the temple to the colossal head of the
tutelary deity, which beamed down upon him from an altitude
of sixty feet, with an aspect of godlike benignity. 0n un-
covering the paws, accordingly, many inscriptions were found,
records of the admiration of Grecian travellers, and of careful
restorations by the Roman emperors. One of the former, as
translated by Dr. Young and quoted by Wilkinson, is as
follows:

“Thy form stupendous here the gods have placed,
Sparing each spot of harvest-bearing land,

And with this mighty work of art have graced

A rocky isle, encumbered once with sand,

And near the pyramids have bid thee stand:

Not that ﬁerce Sphynx that Thebes erewhile laid waste,
But great Latona’s servant mild and bland;

Watching that prince beloved who ﬁlls the throne

Of Egypt’s plains, and calls the Nile his own.

That heavenly monarch, (who his foe deﬁes,)

Like Vulcan powerful, (and like Pallas wise)."
Arriau.

The whole ﬁgure is cut out of the rock, excepting the fore

 

 

_ “"—'—_—-d

 

—n.—_-.....4_-—— i...- -—-

 

