 

 

VIEW FROM ASSOUAN. 203

grove that lines the bank of the river below the castle, and as
the sun was setting, walked up to visit its hoary walls. I know
not that I ever enjoyed myself more while upon the Nile. The
scene from this rock is so singular, and so utterly unlike any-
thing else upon its course, but the effect was proportionally
grateful. The river rushed past in a succession of powerful
whirls and eddies, which as they swept along glittered in the
dying sunbeams. Set in the midst of the coil of the troubled
waters, were various black-coloured fantastic islets, the outposts
of the cataracts, and Elephantine with its verdant groves. It was
delightful to lie down and listen to the sound of the rushing
river as it swept under the hoary rock—a low and solemn
monotone, to look up into the deepening glow of the crimsoned
sky, to inhale an atmospheric softness which seemed to bathe
the soul in luxury ; and what with the wildness and strangeness
of all around, the feeling of remoteness which cleaves to “ far
Syene,” the historical associations connected with it—the old
rock of Assouan was a place from which it was difﬁcult to tear
oneself away.

Arrived at the frontier of Egypt, and entering upon Nubia,
we ﬁnd not only a marked geographical division, but a different
race of people. The N ubians are tall and slender in person—
far less massive in build than the Theban Arabs. There is
something of elegance in their general appearance, and the cast
of their features is rather intellectual. They are of a soft dusky
black or bronze tint, with a very ﬁne skin, and they delight to
oil their bodies, and to load their sable ringlets with unguents
anything but odoriferous to the European nose. Their women
have often elicited the rapturous remarks of travellers, in whose
eyes they move about like so many sable Venuses, realizing the
description of our mother Eve, as being when “ unadorned,
adorned the most,” their sole costume, in this serene and glowing
climate, being an apron round the middle, and somewhat of the
slenderest too, composed of loose thongs of leather decorated with
small shells. Thus attired, these dusky beauties come forth from

 

 

 

