 

 

AN EGYPTIAN VILLAGE. 117

his care, and mingles his songs with theirs, as he leaves his vil-
lage to repair to the labours of the ﬁeld. Strolling through
the palm groves I reached Bibbé, a considerable village stand-
ing on a high bank above the river. The villages in Egypt,
very pretty at a distance, are far from answering to the lux-
uriant appearance of the country, and a brief inspection reveals
the degraded and miserable state of the inhabitants. Vast
mounds of dust and offal are usually collected at the outskirts,
the favourite resort of dogs, ﬂies, and ﬁlthy children often quite
naked, who assail the traveller, the one with loud barkings, and
the other with deafening cries for beckshish. The dwellings are
but a collection of mud hovels ; but the residence of the “ Sheik
belled,” or head of the village, has usually a little more architec-
tural pretension, though conﬁned to the same material. This
functionary is often tolerably well dressed, but the great bulk of
the Fellahs have scarcely a rag to cover them, and the women’s
whole clothing consists of a long blue robe, grievously worn and
tattered. Enter one of their wretched dwellings,-—there are but
a few vessels for food and water, and the ground serves for
chair and table; yet, as in such a climate it is certain that the
wants of the body are far less sensibly felt, it always seemed
to me that our own poor are often greater sufferers, and squalid
hovels and naked children are unhappily met with in Ireland
as they are here. Besides the dwelling of the Sheik belled,
the mosque with its small minaret is the only feature of the
village, if we except the singular pigeon-houses, which are
built up on the roofs of the cottages in square and pyramidal
fashion, consisting of a great number of earthen jars piled one
above another and cemented with plaster, each jar serving as a
nest: innumerable quantities of these birds are thus lodged,
and their ﬂitting about the ﬁelds and groves or on the village
roofs is a very lively spectacle. I have been amused at the
grotesque spectacle presented at one of these villages at high
noon, when the whole population, rational and irrational,
seems to take to the river ‘ en masse.’ The buffaloes, descend-

 

 

 

 

