 

134 EGYPT AND AMERICA.

into southern bondage. My God! thought I, is it possible? I
was cured of my prowlavery princi .”

While stealing in my kangia along the solitary patriarch of
rivers, I had often called to mind the huge booming steamboat
of the American waters with its hundreds of passengers, and '
fallen into a train of thought arising out of the contrast. There
was no doubt a time when the banks of the Nile and the Mis-
sissippi were the haunts of the wandering savage, and the ﬁrst
civilization that arose on their banks is alike unrecorded and
mysterious. But in the course of ages grew up that great
Egyptian monarchy, which long subsisted, powerful and prosper-
ous, whose civilization has inﬂuenced even our own times ; while
still the king of western ﬂoods continued to roll through savan-
nahs peopled only by the wandering hunter. Of that empire
despotism, caste, and slavery were, however, constituent ele-
ments, and the admiration with which we regard the monu-
ments of its grandeur is dashed by the reﬂection that we
are looking on the labours of human victims.

In a later age, when Christianity had induced a more humane
civilization, America commenced among the vast primeval
forests her noble and boundless career. Free from the chains
of the old world, but with the advantage of all their arts and
sciences, a century or two sufﬁce to bring about results which,
under less favourable circumstances, ages might not have
eﬂ'ected. With wonderful energy the forests are felled, cities
arise, emigration pours hosts into the waste, steam joins together
the remotcst corners of the immense territory, which is rapidly
ﬁlling up with its millions of inhabitants ; While the population
of Egypt, under an exterminating policy, is as rapidly lessening.
What contrast was ever more striking than the relative condi-
tion of the two countries at the present day? Egypt, fallen and
decrepit, bowed under oppression and the paralysing inﬂuence
of a false religion. America, daily rising in power, a land of
light, freedom, enterprise, and Christianity! By what extraor-
dinary chance is it then, that, unlike in every thing else, they

 

 

