86 SHOUBRA AND RHODA.

and the pyramids, which I shall notice in their turn. In
this burning climate, and dusty soil, it is no wonder that the
imagination of an Arab paints tranquil repose in a latticed
kiosque, by the side of trickling waters, and under the shade of
scented gardens, with perhaps the addition of an Houri or two,
as the greatest of all earthly delights. It is diﬁcult to form
an idea of the absolute craving of a northern traveller for a
wholesome bit of green sward, with a bubbling runnel of
water, a common ﬁeld, with hedge-row elm and hillock green,
' to relieve the eternal drought, and dust, and sultriness. But
these things are impossible in Egypt. In the hope of some-
thing in the shape of grass, I mounted my donkey and
galloped one day to the pasha’s kiosque and gardens at Shoubra,
beneath a ﬁne avenue of trees completely overshadowing the
road which runs pleasantly near the Nile. The gardens are
extensive, and well kept, consisting of long green avenues
paved with pebbles, and bordered with rows of exotics, which
exhale the most delicious odours; here and there are foun-
tains prettily ornamented, and overhung with trees, refreshing
enough after coming from Cairo. There is a very extensive bath,
and a kiosque overlooking the garden, which is a favourite re-
treat of the late pasha’s. It is pleasant enough to while away an
hour or two here, but a far prettier place is Rhoda, an island in
the Nile, opposite Old Cairo, where, under the direction of
Mr. Trail, an English master gardener, who has a pretty
bower himself among these shades of his own creation, gardens
of great beauty have been realized. The situation is happy,
the Nile adding much to the landscape, and one wanders half
enchanted among irregular shady bosquets of the most delicious
fragrant trees, and shrubs, and brilliant ﬂowers, through which
peeps are obtained upon the river, with its ﬂitting white sails,
and the distant pyramids. Nor are the decorations of art want-
ing ; for there is also a very pretty building, with a shell-paved
grotto, and a small piece of water. I repeatedly visited this
place, and took the greatest delight in its verdant alleys; yet

 

 

 

.L____.

