 

 

16 ALEXANDRIA.

thronged with ships of war, steamers, merchantmen, and all the
smaller craft incident to extended trafﬁc. For under the
government of Mehemet Ali, this city, which is his principal
residence, and the scene of his most important improvements,
has experienced an immense development, and is likely to re-
gain a large proportion of its ancient consequence.

Of this Campbell, in a few graphic sentences, sets before us a
striking picture.

“ Alexandria was the greatest of all the cities founded by a
conqueror who built even more than be destroyed. He meant
to revive in Alexandria the glory of Tyre, which he had ruined ;
and though he lived not to ﬁnish its noblest works, he was
their real projector. Alexander in person traced the plan of
the new city, and his architect, Dinarchus, directed its execu-
tion. He designed the shape of the whole after that of a
Macedonian cloak, and his soldiers strewed meal to mark the
line where its walls were to rise. These, when ﬁnished, en-
closed a compass of eighty fur-longs ﬁlled ,with comfortable
abodes, and interspersed with palaces, temples, and obelisks of
marble porphyry, that fatigued the eye with admiration. The
main streets crossed each other at right angles, from wall to
wall with beautiful breadth, and to the length, if it may be
credited, of nearly nine miles. At their extremities the gates
looked out on the gilded barges of the Nile, of ﬂeets at sea
under full sail, on a harbour that sheltered navies, and a light-
house that was the mariner’s star, and the wonder of the world.

“ The ﬁrst inhabitants brought together into this capital of
the West, were a heterogeneous mass that seemed hardly to
promise its becoming the future asylum of letters and science.
Egyptians, impressed with ancient manners and maxims, that
had no sociality with the rest of the world—Jews, degraded by
dependency, yet still regarding themselves as the only children
ofGod—Macedonians, whose ruling passion was military pride
-——proper Greeks, who despised all the rest of mankind—and
fugitive Asiatics, that were the sweepings of other conquests.”

 

——-——- #—-_-.‘__ _

 

 

   

‘v

