 

 

 

THE FYOOM. 115

St. John correctly says of these dances, “ All the nations of
the East have, from the remotest ages, delighted in this species
of exhibition, which from them passed into Greece and Rome,
where it furnished the poets with an agreeable theme for satire.
Horace, whose Divus Augustus had doubtless helped to intro-
duce it, laments that the young ladies had acquired a taste for
the oriental style of dancing, which was evidently popular at
Rome: and J uvenal, who had travelled in Egypt, at a later
period, makes mention of the Roman dancing-girls. From
paintings preserved in the grottos of Eilithyas and in the
tombs of Thebes, we ﬁnd that the ancient Egyptians had
likewise their Ghawazee, who were employed in their domestic
entertainments to heighten the effect of the song and the bowl
by their voluptuous movements.” Up to a recent period,
(as late as 1832,) their performances constituted the principal
excitement of the Cairenes; but the inﬂuence of the Mussul-
man doctors was opposed to the scandal, and the government
was obliged to renounce the tax levied upon their vices, and
banish them into the provinces.

Benisouef is a considerable town, the capital of a province,
and residence of a bey; and the principal road into the Fyoom
and to lake Mceris is, from hence. I was prevented by the
inundation from visiting this district, which, however, is full
of interest. The pyramid of Howara marks the site of the
labyrinth, one of the wonders of ancient Egypt; little remains
V of it above ground, but Dr. Lepsius has recently excavated, and,
it is said, traced out the plan. Additional interest has also been
given to the Fyoom by the discovery by M. Linant of what are
supposed to be the genuine traces of the celebrated artiﬁcial
reservoir of Mmris, made to retain the water of the Nile after
the subsidence of the inundation; and at Biahmoo are some
curious ruins, which, if his views are correct, are, probably,
those of the two pyramids mentioned by Herodotus as being in
the midst of this lake. The Birket e1 Korn, hitherto regarded
as the lake Mosris, is a natural lake, thirty-ﬁve miles long by

 

 

 

