 

 

 

 

106 TOMBS AROUND THE Pvnamns.

original desecration to the Hyksos, or Shepherd Kings, and
that, owing to this circumstance, the Egyptian monarchs
afterwards preferred to hide their sepulchres in the solitary
recesses of the Theban hills, though they could hardly have
hoped to escape the penetrating scrutiny of a rapacious con-
queror. Be this as it may, it is evident from the inscription
of their names found on the pyramids, that the Arabian caliphs
Opened the whole of them in the vain quest of treasure, as
Wilkinson supposes, in 820, A. D. They were then found to
have been previously riﬂed, and, singularly enough, to have
been closed up again with the greatest care.

That a people who could erect such monuments as the
pyramids must have arrived at a high degree of civilization and
reﬁnement, is a natural inference, and one fully corroborated
by the remarkable discoveries among the numerous surround-
ing tombs. Wilkinson had already found representations of
“ the trades, boats, repasts, dancing, agricultural and farming
processes, as in the tombs of later date, at Thebes and else-
where, and with enumerations in decimals of the wealth of the
owner of the tomb, which, like that of Abraham, consisted
principally in ﬂocks and herds. He remarks, that a picture of
a butcher sharpening his red knife on a blue rod, seems to prove
the use of steel. 00pper, we know from the monumental
tablets at those places, was brought by the kings of this dynasty
from the neighbouring peninsula of Sinai, where their names
are engraved upon the rocks. The researches of Dr. Lepsius
have resulted in a vast accession of facts, which he is now
engaged in classifying, and the results of which, as regards
alike chronology and other matters, are of immense interest
and value. These mysterious pyramids, which have excited the
conjectures and baﬂled the scrutiny of ages,-—even the empty
tombs that were abandoned to the bats and jackals,—seem now,
by the Prometheus wand of hieroglyphical discovery, to reveal a
world of curious information as to minutest details of a civiliza-
tion existing some four thousand years ago.

 

 

