 

 

112 THE DANCING-GIRLS.

At length we got back again into the main stream, and. I sue
ceeded in getting a few hours of quiet sleep.

The next day we were becalmed, and the men were com-
pelled to track. As we passed abreast of ancient Memphis, the
pyramids of Sakhara and Dashoor, and, later still, the False
pyramid, as it is called, successively presented themselves.

About noon the following day, we saw the groves and
minarets of Beni-souef, the ﬁrst town of iniportance on the
western bank of the Nile. A few articles of provision were
wanting, and the boat was towed on to the usual landing-place,
while I preferred walking along the shore. I found it so e1-
cessively hot as to wish myself back again, and was about to
hail the vessel, when the sound of music caught my ears, and I
perceived an assemblage of people under the shade of a cluster
of Sont trees near the river, and rising now and then over their
heads, the braceleted arms and castanets of the famous “ Ghawa-
zee,” or dancing-girls, who, banished from the capital, were
forced to carry their voluptuous allurements farther up the
river. Having often wished for an opportunity of witnessing
their performances, I slipped among the miscellaneous assem-
blage who clustered around an elevated platform on which the
girls were dancing, and, as I ﬂattered myself, unperceived, for
on such occasions as these one is not anxious to be conspicuous.
But my Frank hat, and the umbrella which I carried on account
of the heat, betrayed me, and an ofﬁcer of the pasha’s leaping
up from his seat, pushed aside the rabble, and taking me by
the hand, hoisted me up on the platform, and made me sit down
by his side, a distinction which I was equally unwilling to ac-
cept, or without offence unable to decline.

The stage or platform might have been some thirty feet
square, partly overshadowed with trees, and partly covered
with a rude awning of palm leaves, yet the heat was almost
overpowering; the river ﬂoated slowly past like boiling oil,
and the distance was one undistinguishable blaze of heated
mist. Around the platform were grouped a number of the

 

 

 

—_—. .—.—-——_-_-.-H—a-—_—-——.—-

