 

 

74 INTERIOR or A HOUSE.

on its most shaded side are commonly two water jars, which are
daily replenished with Nile water, brought from the river
in skins?" There is sometimes also a palm tree.

The principal apartment on the ground-ﬂoor is called a Man-
darah, and in the older style of houses is often very splendid.
I have selected for representation one of unusual size and rich-
ness of decoration, in a house formerly occupied, I believe, by
one of the murdered Mamelukes, and now abandoned to decay,—
not far from the Frank bazaar. It was melancholy to behold its
fountains dry, its marble pavement broken up, rich inlayed
cabinets and mazy arabesques—such as are not to be met with
in these degenerate days, falling to pieces with neglect; the
stained glass of its windows broken, the wild herbs of the
garden straggling into the apartment, and its unfurnished di-
vans heaped with rubbish; while the spider wrought its web
undisturbed among the fantastic intricacies of the tracery. Some
dismal story seemed to be connected with it,—one might have
fancied it the chosen abode of the J inns and Efrits of Arabian
romance. The entrance, on the right hand, is by the door
covered with minute and elaborate carving. The middle part
of the room is lower than the rest, and is called a durké’ah,
which, with the fountain in the centre, is paved and inlayed with
marble of different colours. To the right of this, on the wall, is
also a sloping marble slab with stair-er edges, over which the
water pours and trickles, thence passing by pipes into the
basin of the fountain. This is a common Saracenic device, and I
remember to have seen it in Palermo, but is not in use in
modern Egyptian houses, at least it is not mentioned by
Lane. The raised part'of the room is called a “ leewan,”f
paved with common stone, and covered with mats in summer and
carpets in winter ; this is unusually extensive in the apartment
before us: it is surrounded by a divan, or low seat continued
round the walls, covered like a sofa, and with long cushions
resting against the wall for the entire length, sometimes with

' Lane. 1' Lane.

 

