 

 

116 MORNING ON THE NILE.

seven broad, its level is lower than that of the Nile. Besides
these interesting vestiges there are a few other remains. The
Fyoom has always been noted for its fertility, and the variety of
its products.’ After a brief turn in the wretched bazaar of
Benisouef, I rejoined my boat, and with the afternoon breeze
made considerable way up the river, the banks of which now
begin to assume a more interesting appearance.

When I threw open my window very early next morning, the
boat was gliding softly under a light breeze within a few yards
of the shore, which was lined with groves of the date palm, re-
ﬂected by the glassy rippling current of the river. I break-
fasted under the awning outside the cabin. There are hours
which one can never forget, into which the enjoyment generally
spread over large portions of life seems as it were concentrated ;
among these there are few more happy than those in which we
realize another climate, the air, soil, and vegetation being
totally different, and all inspiring new and delicious sensations;
when a new page of the endless variety of creation lies open
before us. Such was this morning upon the Nile. There was
such a broad lustrous tranquillity in the cloudless purple
heaven, shed upon the noble stream, coming down through
its eternal valley in a full, majestic, glassy current; the tall
stems of the palms, grouping to the very edge of the river, lifted
their burden of gently rustling fans so serenely into the summer
air, with their glowing clusters of yellow dates, just ripening
and tremulous with their heavy weight, their rich gum catching
the morning beams; and the level green valley, variegated
with crops, spread away so quietly to its desert boundary, its
verdure rendered tenfold more beautiful by contrast with the
yellow sands. I leaped ashore, and walked along the raised
bank of the river; the palm trees and groves of sont, a spe-
cies of acacia, were thronged by innumerable birds darting
about the surface of the water; and so happy and joy-inspiring
is the climate, that the poor enslaved Fellah for a while forgets

' See Wilkinson, vol. ii.

 

 

r—.—-.tur_.

 

 

 

 

 

