 

 

-|————_—_

ANCIENT ALEXANDRIA. 23

Leaving the noise and bustle of the great square, a. few
minutes’ walk brings us among the towering mounds which
entomb the ancient city; white villas with gardens of waving
palms start up at intervals, among the desolations of ages; new
roads and avenues pierce through the accumulated sand and
rubbish, and disclose sculptured fragments and yawning found-
ations, sometimes bringing forth even treasures of art; and
as these changes are still further carried on, much light will
doubtless be thrown upon many obscure points in the topo-
graphy. To obtain an idea of the comparative site of the
ancient and modern cities, it is well to ascend to the height of
Fort Cretin, but a few minutes' ride from the great square.
The view hence over the Mediterranean, the two harbours,
the lake Mareotis, and the entire area of splendid and populous
Alexandria, is so complete, that it requires little stretch of
imagination to recall vividly the many illustrious actors on this
memorable theatre, and the scenes in which they have ﬁgured,
from its foundation even to our day. This will appear from
the detailed description which accompanies the careful pano-
ramic sketch taken from this point.

The island of Pharos had long been used as a shelter for
vessels, and a small town called Rhacotis existed there, but, as
already stated, it was to Alexander that the idea ﬁrst occurred
of taking full advantage of the site for the establishment of a
great commercial city. In the panoramic sketch, the position
of the island is seen extending from the point on which stands
the new light-house to that occupied by the old castle—the site
of the celebrated Pharos, erected by the architect Sostratus
of Cnidus, by order of Ptolemy Philadelphus, which was
counted one of the wonders of the world. The island was
united to the main-land by a causeway called the Hepta-
stadium, through which there was a communication from one
harbour to the other; this, in the course of ages, has become,
like that of Tyre, broad enough to serve as the site of the
greater part of the modern city. Of the double harbour formed

 

*— “ﬁ-i- ___.

 

 

