 

 

THE CROCODILE. 139

himself witnessed it. It is very rarely that they are known to at-
tack any one. In some parts of Egypt the crocodile was wor-
shipped as a god; in others, killed and eaten as a public enemy.
J uvenal, who held some military post in the province, found
much amusement in satirizing the superstitions of Egypt. But,
adds Mr. Sharpe, he sometimes takes a poet’s liberty, and when
he tells us that man’s was the only ﬂesh that they ate without
sinning, we are not to believe him to the letter. He gives a
lively picture of a ﬁght which he saw between the citizens of
the two towns of Ombos and Tentyra, who had a long standing
quarrel about their gods. At Ombos they. worshipped the
crocodile and the crocodile-headed god Savak, while at Tentyra
they worshipped the goddess Athor, and were celebrated for
their skill in catching and killing crocodiles. So, taking an
advantage of a feast or holiday, as the people of Modena and
Bologna did in the days of Tassoni, they marched out for a
ﬁght. The men of Ombos were beaten and put to ﬂight, but
one of them stumbling as he ran away, was caught and torn to
pieces, and, as J uvenal adds, eaten by the men of Tentyra.”

Crocodiles were also taken and tamed by the ancient Egyp-
tians, who made pets of them, decorating them with ear-rings
and bracelets, and pampering them with roast meat and wine.
Amid the variety of animals brought from the subjugated
provinces to Rome, to be exhibited and destroyed in the amphi-
theatre, was also, as Strabo informs us, the crocodile, thirty-six
being introduced at once for that purpose by Augustus, which
were killed by the gladiators, and there is mention also of an
artiﬁcial lake at Rome in which tame ones were exhibited. In
the British Museum is a statue of a man of Dendera performing
feats of agility on a crocodile’s back. The aperture or pupil of
the eye contracts into a narrow perpendicular line, and the
Arabs relate that during the season of the inundation, when the
water of the Nile is considerably darkened by the quantity of
clay held in solution, it is totally blind, conﬁrming in some
measure the statement of Herodotus.

 

 

