r M--.qn———- -H- ——-._—--_--——I—-.—

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

—-—— ”w-“-_l—_-I~O—th—

 

 

 

MANFALOO'I‘ BY NIGHT. 129

a gale, soon brought us alongside our friends the Mahommedan
pilgrims, whose superior sailing qualities had enabled them to
get there before us.

The night was wild and stormy, and the boat rocked about so
unpleasantly, that I was glad to exchange the scene and go
ashore into the town. A lamp twinkling in the small minaret
guided us on our way, and a stranger scene I have rarely be-
held than that presented by the streets of Manfaloot by night.
They were so obstructed by sleepers in the dust and sand,
that it was difﬁcult to avoid tumbling over some of .them.
The sides of the street were occupied by the rational crea-
tion—dogs, camels, and asses irregularly ﬁlling up the centre.
Few of the wretched inhabitants seemed to have any cover-
ing but the scanty rags which formed their unique apparel;
but in some cases, the father of a family had literally “spread
his skirt” over the whole brood as they lay nestled up together
in a heap. Numerous blind men were groping about in a cloud
of dust with long sticks to ﬁnd a suitable corner out of the
main thoroughfare, and out of reach of the hoofs of camels
and asses. Whether this sleeping ‘ sub dio’ was a matter of
preference, or rendered necessary by the houseless condition
of these poor people, I cannot say, but few things, even in this
land of misery, struck me with a more painful impression.
Blind beggars abounded in the morning; one, having found
out there was a Frank boat, got a boy to guide him to its side,
and, in piteous terms, entreated for a garment: all he had on
scarce served the purposes of decency, and had been so patched
and darned, that there was no longer any place for needle to
hold; no skill could hold its tatters together much longer, and
I expected with every gust to see them decompose, and leave
him without a rag: poor fellow, his need was certainly des-
perate as his entreaties were urgent. It so happened, that I
had on board an old pair of Turkish cotton drawers, which I
had taken to go into the water, and I tossed them to him; he
passed his ﬁngers carefully over them, and when he found they

Lu".— ﬂw¢i-.ﬂ_.m_1--4 -

 

