 

 

 

 

I72 MED'EENE'P HABOU.

deposited in a shrine, placed upon the sledge, upon which it was
afterwards drawn, amidst the wailing of their kindred, to their
tombs in the region of ‘ Amenti,’ or the west, on which side of
the Nile the cemeteries are usually placed. We may almost
hear the clinlt of the workman’s hammer as he fashioned the
everlasting habitations of the dead, and we may fancy whole
legions of painters and sculptors at work in ornamenti'ng their
hm recesses, with those vivid representations of every-day life,
which subsistcd here unchanged for ages.

With this view of the site of Thebes, map-like in detail and
mournfully grand in its general impression, we proceed to-
examine the diﬂerent monuments, or rather, ﬁelds of ruin,
which are scattered about the plain. The steep pathway
gradually descends from this commanding elevation, along the
brink of sandstone precipices, beneath which is concealed the
elegant little temple of Dayr el Medeeneh, well worthy of a
separate visit, and at length brings us down to the walls and
mounds of Medeenet Habou.

This immense group of buildings is so mixed up with a
mass of later erections that it is diﬁcult to realize its ori-
ginal effect. The principal ediﬁce is the colossal temple and
palace of Rameses III., but adjacent on the south, and on a
diﬂ'erent plane, is another, and smaller one, to which large courts
have been added by the Ptolemaic kings. The pavilion of
Rameses is very singular and unique in point of architecture,
while its decorative sculptures are very curious. It appears
(though from the point of view not fully) in the accompanying
illustration, which also includes the later Ptolemaic courts and
facade to the smaller temple above mentioned. Two lodges
ﬂanked the entrance to the palace; on either hand is a pyramidal
building resembling a tower, on the external facades of which
are sculptures representing the Egyptian conqueror in the act
of smiting a vanquished foe, in presence of the god Amunre.
The passage between these towers goes under the northern or
inner part of the building, consisting of different apartments,

 

 

