 

 

 

202 ARRIVAL A'r ASSOUAN .

like the avenue of approach to some new region of wonders.
Stemming the powerful current by the aid of our broad latcen
sails and a strong northerly breeze, we opened another and
wider region of the valley, adorned with clustering palm groves,
and passing the temple of Ombos, another noble specimen of
the later Egyptian architecture, ﬂew swiftly on towards the
cataracts. A sudden squall from the east brought us up in the
midst of our rapid career, the sails were instantly let loose,
which saved us from going down, and with great difﬁculty we
made the shore, and tied our craft fast up to a group of mimosas.
The river was one sheet of foam, the land almost obscured by
a whirlwind of sand, which penetrated the deepest recesses
of the palm grove where we sought a temporary refuge.
Loosening again we soon came in sight of Assouan, the ancient
Syene, the most picturesque spot, with the exception of Philm,
on the whole course of the Nile. The centre of the river,
which is here of magniﬁcent breadth and volume, is occupied
by the green and beautiful island of Elephantine, which
gave a title to an early dynasty of Egyptian kings On the
right is a high sandy eminence crowned by the ruins of a con-
vent; on the left the precipitous rock of Syene projects into
the river, crowned with the ruins of a Saracenic fortress, while
more distant hills of barren sand are dotted with tombs and
ruins of the same period. There is no other place on the river
to which we can so properly apply the term romantic.

Here then we are 700 miles above the sea, and at the frontier
post of ancient Egypt itself, though, as it is hardly necessary to
remind the reader, the dominion of the Pharaohs extended far
to the southward, farther perhaps towards the unknown sources
of the Nile than is usually supposed. Syene was garrisoned at
a later period by the Persians and Romans. There are, how-
ever, few traces of that remote period now remaining, either at
Assouan or Elephantine, the principal monuments being of the
Saracenic period, coeval with the conquest of Egypt by Amer.

We laid our boat ashore by the side of the beautiful palm

 

a

 

