 

216 INTERIOR or run TEIPLE.

The whole body, armed with long sticks, pikes, swords, daggers,
and pistols, presented themselves, declaring that they had
waited till the last moment and must now go down the river,
joining at the same time in savage imprecations, and scraping
the sand in a menacing manner with their swords and hatchets.
To this intimidating behaviour the travellers opposed an attitude
of calm and resolute remonstrance. Whilst the dispute was
going on, their janissary had contrived to squeeze himself
through an aperture, and to enter the temple, upon which the
crew, ﬁnding it their best policy to be conciliatory, agreed to
remain and assist to clear the doorway. A rough wall was
built up on either side to catch the descending sand, and the
persevering adventurers were enabled to explore the temple.
The smallness of the oriﬁce admitted so little air, that the close-
ness was almost insupportable. Through the dim, dusky light
thus opened after an interval of centuries, the ﬁrst glimpse into
the interior amply repaid them for their long-continued toil.
They found themselves in a vast hall, adorned on either side
with an imposing range of massive square pillars, each with a
gigantic statue 17 feet in height attached to it in front, bearing
the same serene and noble expression as the exterior colossi.
Through the obscurity they could perceive that the walls of this
noble excavation were covered with elaborate bas-reliefs of
battle scenes similar to those that adorn the walls of Karnak.
To this principal chamber succeeded a second hall of four square
pillars, and the sanctuary, having an altar and statues, and two
lateral apartments. Eight smaller and more irregular ones,
opening from the sides of the Great Hall, completed this im-
mense and magniﬁcent excavated temple, extending 200 feet
from the entrance. Besides this, there is another nearer to the
river, the depth of which is about 90 feet.

Not far above Abusimbal is Wadee Halfeh, and the second
cataract of the Nile. A lofty cliff rising above them commands
a striking view over the innumerable rocky islets which break
up the current of the river into a series of rapids, which extend

 

 

 

