 

 

48 ms'ronv or CAIRO.

only great name connected with the annals of Cairo. He was
the nephew of Shirkook, who, urging Noor-e-din, the Abasside
caliph, to wrest Egypt from the Fatimites, eventually, through
his assistance, obtained virtual possession of the country for
himself. Hereupon Noor-e—din sought in every way to dis-
possess him and his nephew, who, after the death of Shirkook,
had succeeded to the post of vizir. This caliph, however,
dying shortly after, Saladin openly threw off the yoke, and
rendered himself the independent sovereign of Egypt and
Syria. We need not dwell upon his well-known and glorious
career; sufﬁce it to say, that he added largely to the city of
Cairo, which, to insure against attack, he also surrounded with
a stronger wall, enclosing the rocky spur of Mount Mokattam as
a citadel. The city then assumed its present shape, although
greatly beautiﬁed by the erections of subsequent rulers. Melek
Adel, brother of Saladin, and hardly less valiant, to whom
Richard Caeur de Lion proposed to give his sister in marriage,
deposed his infant grandson, and seized upon the sovereignty,
but died in a few years, 'on account, it is supposed, of the suc-
cesses of the Christians, who had landed in Egypt and in-
vaded Damietta. That place being at length taken, the
crusaders advanced upon Cairo, but were cut off from supplies
and obliged to capitulate. Still more disastrous was the issue
of the sixth crusade, when Louis IX. was taken prisoner.
Cairo ‘ the victorious ’ was never destined to fall into the hands
of the crusaders. The Aioobite dynasty, that of the family of
Saladin, was at length supplanted by the Baharite Memlooks,
a valiant race of foreign and military slaves, who rose against
their masters. “ A more unjust and absurd constitution cannot
be devised,” says Gibbon, “ than that which condemns the
natives of a country to perpetual servitude under the arbitrary
dominion of strangers and slaves. The most illustrious sultans
of the Baharite (Tartar) and Borgite (Circassian) dynasties
were themselves promoted from the Tartar and Circassian
hands; and the four and twenty beys, or military chiefs, have

 

 

