 

 

7 8 ring HAUNTED HOUSE.

but we could ﬁnd nothing outside after the noise I have
mentioned. The usual sounds continued during the greater
part of the night, and were generally like a heavy trampling,
like the walking of a person in large clogs, varied by knocking
at the doors of many of the apartments, and at the large water
jars, which are placed in recesses in the galleries. Our maids
have come and gone like shadows ever since our residence
here, excepting during Ramad’han; and wave qui peat seems
to have been their maxim, for they believe that one touch of an
Efrit would render them demoniacs.
C C i i i i O O C

“ A few days since, our door-keeper, a new servant, com-
plained that he not only could not sleep, but that he never had
slept since his arrival more than a few minutes at a time, and
that he never could sleep consistently with his duty, unless the
Efrit could be destroyed. He added, that he came every night
into the upper gallery, leading to our sleeping-room, and there
he found the ﬁgure I have mentioned, walking round and
round, and concluded with an anxious request that his master
would consent to his ﬁring at the phantom, saying that devils
have always been destroyed by the discharge of ﬁre-arms. We
consented to the proposal, provided he used neither ball nor
small shot. Two days and nights passed, and we found on the
third that the door—keeper was waiting to ascertain whether
the spectre were a saint or a devil, and had therefore resolved
to question him on the ensuing night before he ﬁred.

“ The night came, and it was one of unusual darkness. We
had really forgotten our recent intentions, although we were
talking over the subject of the disturbances until near midnight,
and speculating upon the cause in the room where my children
were happily sleeping, when we were startled by a tremendous
discharge of ﬁre-arms, which was succeeded by the deep hoarse
voice of the door-keeper exclaiming, ‘ There he lies, the ac-
cursed !’ and a sound as of a creature struggling and gasping
for breath. In the next moment the man called loudly to his

 

 

 

