 

 

THE ANCIENT EGYPTIANB. 43

rapid current, until they regain a footing. The ass, which in
Egypt is far superior in size and spirit to the neglected breed
in Europe, is used for riding by the lower orders of the
natives, as well as by all Europeans who are not in the employ
of government. - '

While we thus ﬁnd on the banks of the Nile animals not
represented in the ancient sculptures, we ﬁnd, on the other
hand, that some plants conspicuous there have disappeared.
Such is the rose-coloured lotus, the beautiful form of which
suggested the elegant shafts and capitals of the columnar archi-
tecture ; and the invaluable papyrus, the paper of the ancient
Egyptians. This disappearance has led to the belief that these
and other plants found even now in Egypt, were not in-
digenous in the lower Nile valley, but brought down the Nile
from above Ethiopia, or elsewhere, by the former inhabitants of
the country.

Whence indeed came the ancient Egyptians themselves, and
who are their descendants? are questions which have led to
much discussion, and are by no means settled at the present
day. The results of an examination of one hundred Egyptian
crania, collected from different parts of Egypt, furnished by
Mr. G. Gliddon to Dr. S. G. Morton of Philadelphia, seemed
to establish that the predominant race was Caucasian in
origin: out of ﬁfty-ﬁve skulls, the Pelasgic, or purest type,
being ten; the Egyptian, which differs from the former in
having a narrower and more receding forehead, and the facial
angle more prominent, thirty; and the remainder of a mixed
and Negroid type of African derivation. This view of the
Asiatic origin of the great race who settled in Egypt, might
seem to be conﬁrmed by the apparent progress of civilization
from north to south, up the valley of the Nile, and by the fact
that the most ancient monuments are found in Lower Egypt.
Mr. Morton is said, however, to have altered his views, and to
lean to the theory of an indigenous African race in the Nile
valley, though in the course of ages a certain degree of modiﬁca-

 

.1.

 

