 

 

THE nosms s'roxn. 161

not till 1822 that the discovery was pushed further by Champol-
lion 1e J eune, who read at Paris a memoir demonstrating that
“ the ancient Egyptians had made use of pure hieroglyphic
signs, that is, of characters representing the image of material
objects, to represent simply the sounds of the names of Greek
and Roman sovereigns, inscribed upon the monuments, which
method he inferred to have been also adopted at the most early
period. In 1824, he published his “ Statement of the Hiero-
glyphic System of the Ancient Egyptians,” in which he
showed that, even in the most ancient times, the greater portion
of these signs or ﬁgures of material objects were phonetic—re-
ducible into a regular alphabet; and that the hieroglyphic
mode of writing is complex, being at once ﬁgurative, i. e. de-
scriptive by representations of objects discussed, symbolical,
and phonetic, or descriptive by signs intended to represent
sounds.

Furnished with the key to their long-hidden mysteries, se-
veral Egyptian travellers undertook the examination of the
monuments of Egypt. The French government sent out
Champollion, and the Tuscan, Rosellini, who agreed to labour
in concert. They pursued their explorations as far as Nubia,
and it was agreed that they should publish together the results
of their journey. Champollion, however, died before his por-
tion was concluded, and left to his colleague the task of intro-
ducing their labours to the world, which has since been done in
a magniﬁcent publication. Meanwhile the English antiquaries
had not been idle; Sir Gardner Wilkinson having issued the
work to which we have already alluded, and Messrs. Burton and
Birch have also laboured in the ﬁeld of palaeography. Prussia
also sent out the young but erudite Lepsius, to prosecute still
further researches, the full results of which have not yet been
brought before the public. So mighty have been the conse-
quences from the discovery of one single fragment of stone!

The annexed map (from an original survey by a friend) will
serve to explain the details that follow. It will be there seen,

u

 

 

 

 

