 

 

AN ADVENTURE A'r DAMAscus. 83

of its owner. The saloon into which we were ushered was
spacious and splendid, marble-paved, with a bubbling fountain
in the midst, and a roof supported on wooden beams highly
enriched and gilt in the arabesque fashion. A. large door,
across which was slung a heavy leathern curtain which could
be unclosed and shut at pleasure, similar to those adopted in
Catholic churches in Italy, opened on the court, from which
another communicated with the mysterious apartments of the
harem. We seated ourselves on the divan,—our host shortly
entered, smiling at his own thoughts as before; he doﬂ'ed his
turban and pelisse, retaining only his red cap and silk jacket;
he rubbed his hands continually, his eyes twinkled, and he
seemed to abandon himself entirely to the merry humour of the
moment. A few words had hardly passed before the curtain
was gently pushed aside ; the lady, like a timid fawn, peeped in,
then, closing the curtain, advanced a few steps into the room,
watching the eye of her husband; who, without rising, half
laughing, yet half commanding, beckoned her to a seat on the
divan, while we, our hands on our bosoms in the oriental
. fashion, bent respectfully as she came forward and placed herself
between the old Moollah and Mr. Farren. Speaking Arabic well,
the latter was enabled to commence a conversation, in which,
after some slight hesitation at this ﬁrst introduction to mixed
socic ty, the lady appeared to bear her part with much ease and
vivacity. This delighted her husband, who could hardly help
expressing his satisfaction by laughing outright, so proud was
he of the talents of his wife, and so tickled with the novelty of
the whole affair. While this was going forward, I observed
that the curtain of the door was drawn aside by a white hand,
but so gently as not at ﬁrst to attract the attention of the
Moollah, (who sat with his back towards it,) and a'very lovely
face, with all the excitement of trembling curiosity in its laugh-
ing black eyes, peered into the apartment, then another, and
another, till some half dozen were looking over one another’s
shoulders, furtively glancing at the Giaours, in the most earnest

 

 

