 

 

210 osnns AND Hrs FUNCTIONS.

that no bird would ﬂy over, nor ﬁsh swim near this consecrated
ground. “ Osiris, in his mysterious character, was the greatest
of the Egyptian deities, but little is known of those undivulged
secrets which the ancients took so much care to conceal. So
cautious indeed were the initiated, that they made a scruple
even of mentioning him, and Herodotus, whenever he re-
lates any thing concerning this deity, excuses himself from
uttering his name. His principal ofﬁce as an Egyptian deity
was to judge the dead, and to rule over that kingdom where
the souls of good men were admitted to eternal felicity. Seated
on his throne, accompanied by Isis and Nephys, with the four
genii of Amenti, who stand on a lotus growing from the waters
in the centre of the divine abode, he receives an account of the
actions of the deceased,” which are weighed in the scales of
truth. But it is in his mysterious character, as the manifesta-
tion of the Divinity on earth, as an impersonation of his good-
ness, that his peculiar sanctity appears to have consisted. “ He
appeared on earth to beneﬁt mankind, and after having per-
formed the duties hehad ‘come to fulﬁl, and falling a sacriﬁce to
Typho, the evil principle, who was at length overcome by his
inﬂuence, after his leaving the world he rose again to a new
life, and became the judge of mankind in a future state. The
dead also, after having passed their ﬁnal ordeal and been
absolved from sin, obtained in his name, which they then took,
the blessings of eternal felicity. This very remarkable analogy
to the oﬂice sustained by Our Saviour, may induce some to
think,” says Wilkinson, “ that the Egyptians, being aware of the
promises of his coming, had anticipated the event, and intro-
duced that mystery into their religious system.” Whether this
was the case, or whether these ideas rather arose spontaneously
in the Egyptian mind, must remain uncertain, but the functions
thus ascribed to Osiris may well explain the peculiar and distin-
guishing reverence in which his fabled burial-place was held.’

' See more fully on this subject Wilkinson’s Ancient Egyptians, 2nd
Series, vol. i.

 

 

