 

 

50 CAIRO—GENERAL DESCRIPTION.

Cairo has been well described as occupying the natural
centre of Egypt. Heliopolis was only ﬁve miles below, and
the site of Memphis not more than ten miles above the pre-
sent capital. The position commands the approaches to Upper
Egypt, and is upon the direct and natural thoroughfare be-
tween the Mediterranean and the Red Sea. It is at present
nearly three miles from the Nile, a branch of which however
formerly ﬂowed much nearer to it, and about twelve miles
south of the upper or southern termination of the Delta.
There the river is divided into two channels, through which its
waters ﬂow into the Mediterranean, one diverging to the north-
west, the other to the north-east, thus giving a triangular form
to the alluvial region below. Cairo is chieﬂy built upon the
alluvial plain of the Nile, but the eastern part of the city rests
upon the lower declivity of Mount Makattam, a part of the
long range which separates Egypt from the Desert of the Red
Sea. Thus while from its northern and western-gates you issue
forth at once into the luxuriant verdure of the Delta, from its
southern and eastern you plunge as suddenly into an arid
wilderness.

Thus much for the general situation. The city itself is the
most completely Arabian one existing, having never received
any foreign additions, unless by the Turks, though modern
innovations are daily robbing it more and more of that cha-
racter. It is walled round and defended by a citadel on the
towering crags of Mount Mokattam. Within, though here and
there is an open square, it is one maze of narrow tortuous lanes ;
the widest, with few exceptions, being barely sufﬁcient to allow
two laden camels to pass abreast—the narrowest scarcely one.
Some quarters are almost forsaken. The mosques are thickly
sown, and minarets in almost countless number spring up
lustrously into the cloudless sky. The crowd is incessant, and
the variety of costumes and character very curious. The
bulk of the population are Moslem Arabians, with a handful
of Turks, and a considerable number of Christian Copts,

 

 

