 

 

38 ans AND NAUCBATIS.

Egyptian kings. The inhabitants of Naucratis were allowed
to build temples for their own religion, which were erected at
the expense of their countrymen in Greece. The overthrow of
this little state probably took place in the reign of Amunmai
Anemnib, and the chiefs driven out of Egypt carried with them
to Greece so much that was valuable of Egyptian science and
civilization, that many of the Grecian cities dated their founda-
tion from their arrival. They gave to Greece its alphabet and
its mythology, and so willing were the Greeks at all times
to look back to Lower Egypt as the birth-place of their civiliza-
tion, that instead of seeing that a handful of Greeks had in old
times settled in the Delta, they thought Athens itself a colony
from Sais. Thus at this period of Egyptian history, when we
have traced the chronology of Theban kings for perhaps six
hundred years, we are only entering on the fabulous ages of
Greece. About four generations before the Trojan war, Sais
became the seat of government instead of Thebes, under the
last of the Ethiopian kings who conquered Egypt. It was in
the decline of her greatness, when her own valour was sunk,
and the Egyptian monarchs sought for the aid of Greek
mercenaries. The kings of Sais were in fact as much Greek as
Egyptian. Under their protection the sages of Greece visited
Egypt in search of knowledge. Of these, Thales was the ﬁrst.
Solon soon afterwards came to Naucratis as a merchant, bring-
ing the olive oil of Athens to exchange for the corn of Egypt
and the luxuries of India; and while thus engaged, studied the
manners and customs of the country. After selling his cargo,
he visited Sais, and conversed with Egyptian priests. They
called the Greeks mere children of yesterday, and professed to
have a knowledge of the last nine thousand years. Solon re-
turned to Athens with his mind enriched, and the Athenians
were then establishing their democratic form of government,
and Solon became their great philosophical lawgiver. Neith,
the Egyptian Minerva, was principally worshipped at Sais, and
it was celebrated for its splendid festival “ of the Sacred Lamps.”

 

 

