 

 

 

7 6 EGYPTIAN suraas'rrrrox.

women of Egypt, with the view of preventing these objects
from entering their houses, sprinkle salt upon the ﬂoors of the
apartments, saying as they do it, “ In the name of God, the
Compassionate, the Merciful.”

A curious relic of ancient Egyptian superstition may here
be mentioned. It is believed that each quarter in Cairo has
its peculiar guardian genius, or Agathodmmon, which has the
form of a serpent. The ancient tombs of Egypt, and the dark
recesses of the temples, are commonly believed by the people of
this country to be inhabited by Efrits.

The term Efrit is commonly applied rather to an evil J inneh
than any other being; but the ghosts of dead persons are also
called by this name; and many absurd stories are related of
them; and great are the fears which they inspire.

One of these stories is really so remarkable that we shall
venture to quote a short account of it from the excellent
work of Mrs. Poole, the sister of Mr. Lane, the well-known
Arabic scholar, with whom she was then residing.

“ After having searched for a habitation during a month in
vain, we were delighted with the offer of an exceedingly good
one, which appeared in every respect eligible, and in which we
are now residing. But our domestic comfort in this new abode
has been disturbed by a singular trouble, which has obliged us
to arrange as soon as possible for a removal. The house is an
admirable one, being nearly new, though on the old con-
struction.

“ We were much surprised, after passing a few days here,
to ﬁnd that our servants were unable to procure any rest during
the night; being disturbed by a constant knocking, and by
the appearance of what they believe to be an Efrit. The man-
ner of the servants’ complaint was very characteristic. Having
been much annoyed one morning by a noisy quarrel under
our windows, my brother called one of our servants to ascertain
how it had arisen, when he replied, ‘It is a matter of no
importance, 0 Efendi; but the subject which. perplexes us

 

 

