 

 

21% VIEW FROM Pmu.

ranges along the whole of this side of the island, divided by a
narrow and rapid channel, across which there is a ferry, from
the rocky, neighbouring island of Bigge. Though the ge-
neral style of the temple, its propylma and courts, resemble the
rest of Egyptian fanes, there is considerable irregularity in the
form; and Wilkinson and others call attention to “ the small
dark rooms in the wall of the eastern Adytum, to which a stair-
case leads from near the front of that chamber. They have the
appearance of being intended either for concealing the sacred
treasures of the temple, or for some artiﬁce connected with
superstition, and perhaps with the punishment of those who
oﬂ'ended_th-e majesty of the priesthood.”

No part of the temple of Philm presents the colossal grandeur
of the ruins of Thebes, it is rather an elegant specimen of the
lighter Ptolemaic architecture, and therefore so much the better
adapted to harmonize with the romantic scenery of the island.
' The specimens of capitals, composed of the leaves of the lotus
and other plants, are peculiarly delicate, and the vivid pre-
servation of A the colours adds much to their beauty. It has
been well observed, that Egyptian temples are more pictur-
esque in ruin, a remark which applies particularly to a spot
like Philaz.

The views from every part of the island are exquisitely beauti-
ful, but none surpasses that obtained from the end of the ruined
gallery, extending from the great propylon to the extreme point.
This corridor, resting on the wall which surrounded the island,
to protect it from the current, is a happy and graceful specimen
of the lighter Egyptian architecture; the four sides of the capitals
present the smiling features of Isis. Attached to its extremity is
a small obelisk directly overlooking the river, of which a broad,
dreamy, lake-like reach comes down from the south, border-
ed by high mountains, and fringed with a border of palm
groves. Sweeping around the dark, fantastic, up-piled rocks of
Bigge, the current breaks against this end of the island, and
peeping over the perpendicular wall which breaks its force, we

 

 

