 

 

28 turnovnunn'rs BY HEHEMET ALI.

government it has greatly revived both in political and com-
mercial importance, and the re-opening of the canal has re-
stored to its harbour all the trade of Egypt. While the
overland communication with India, if it has not brought back
the whole of this branch of commerce into its old channel, seems
to open up prospects of increasing interest on this ground 1160-

To the traveller, anxious for the moment which shall disclose
to him the wonders of the land of the Pharaohs, Alexandria
is but a dull place, though in the way of society there are more
resources than elsewhere. But he is here on the threshold of
Egypt, which he is impatient to overleap and proceed onward.
“ Though the rest of Egypt was governed by Egyptian laws and
judges,” says Mr. Sharpe, “ the city of Alexandria was under
Macedonian law. It did not form part of the nome of Hermo—
polites, in which it was built. It scarcely formed a part of
Egypt, but was a Greek state in its neighbourhood, holding
the Egyptians in a state of slavery. In that city, no Egyptian
could live without feeling himself of a conquered race : he was i
not admitted except by an espeCial favour to the privileges of
Macedonian citizenship, while they were at once granted to
every Greek and to every Jew who would settle there. Hence,
although the city was crowded with Egyptians who kept the
shops and ﬁlled the lower ranks, and though the Greeks must
often have married Egyptian wives, yet here these mixed races
were never melted down into Egyptians. Whenever, during
the reigns of the Ptolemies, the citizens of the capital of Egypt
met in public assembly in the Gymnasium, they were addressed,
5‘ Ye men of Macedonia.” 7

We Shall not pause here to speak of the modern improve-
ments by Mehernet Ali, which have justly excited the astonish—
ment of travellers. The new palace, the arsenal, the numerous
ships of war, vying in appearance at least with the proudest of
European navies, the extension of the fortiﬁcations, &c., may
well demand our admiration as the creation of one man; they

have but these triﬂing drawbacks, that they are utterly dispro-

 

 

