 

 

168 COXCEALED TOM as.

and bear testimony, no less than other more marvellous sculp-
tures and monuments, to the high state of civilization existing at
that time among the ancient Egyptians; even on a cursory
glance, they enable us to build up in idea the perished palaces
of Thebes, and to furnish them with all the appliances and
means which elegance and luxury, guided by taste, could sug-
gest or create, to ﬁll their halls with the sound of music and
revelry.

Another of the most remarkable of the tombs, is that which
appears on the right hand of the annexed view; the descent is
more gradual than in the others, and of course more elegant;
but it does not produce that immession of wonder and mys-
tery occasioned by the tomb of Belzoni. We learn, from various
inscriptions, that it was much admired by Greek and Roman
visitors. Beside these, there are numerous others open; and
in the western branch of the ravine, that of Amunothph III., of
the vocal statue, the oldest king whose tomb has yet been dis-
covered; and it is here that Wilkinson supposes the most
ancient sepulchres yet remain to be discovered. .

" When Hecataaus,” says Mr. Sharpe, “ visited Egypt in the
reign of Ptolemy, many of these tombs had even then been
opened to gratify the curiosity of the learned or the greediness
of the conqueror. Forty-seven royal tombs were mentioned
in the records of the priests, of which the entrances had
been covered up with earth and hidden in the sloping sides of
the hills, in the hope that they might remain undisturbed and
unplundered, and might keep safe the embalmed bodies of
the kings till they should arise again at the end of the world;
and seventeen of these had already been found and broken
open. Hecatzeus was told, that the other tombs had been before
destroyed; and we owe it, perhaps, to this mistake, that they
remained unopened for more than two thousand years longer,
to reward the researches of modern travellers, and to unfold to
us the history of their builders.”

The sun was getting high when we prepared to leave this

 

 

