 

 

s'rnsn'rs or CAIRO. 51

a few Jews, and, as at Alexandria, a mixture of Eu-
ropeans.

We enter Cairo from Boulak by the great irregular square
of the Esbequeeh, surrounded by houses and gardens. On
one side extends the Copt quarter, gloomy and forbidding in
its exterior as the people whom it harbours: on the other is
that of the Franks; here the most conspicuous object is the
great ‘ Oriental Hotel,’ called into existence by the require-
ments of the overland passengers.- Hence we follow a winding
way into the heart of the city. On the-right, at a short
distance, is a. new mad-house; which, thanks to European in-
ﬂuences upon the naturally humane feelings of Mehemet Ali,
has replaced the old ‘ Morostan,’ with its horrors, which was so
long a standing subject for description with Egyptian tourists.
Heretthe streets get narrower and narrower, till we reach the
penetralia of the city. Our illustration will convey a very fair
idea of a Cairo street and of the throng that pours through it.
As usual, in these narrow lanes, the lower part is in shadow.
From a private garden a palm-tree, as is often the case, overhangs
the narrow passage. The style of the houses, like that of our
own old cities in the middle ages, consists of successive stories
of latticed windows, overlying one another to the tepmost
story, till in' the gloomy Jewish quarter they actually meet and
interclaspone another. These lattices are so contrived as to
admit a free view of the passengers, while those within are
concealed from their most prying scrutiny. Over the door is
generally some inscription of a religious character. On the
left side of the view is one of the smaller ‘ Sibeels,’ or public
fountains, very numerous in oriental cities, and often origin-
ating in the private benevolence of the Mussulmen. A
peripatetic beggar, blind of one eye, is regaling himself with a
glass of the pure element, and several girls are bearing jars
for a supply. This group was sketched exactly as it stands, and
is a fair samPle of those that continually throng the ‘ Sibeel ;’
for in a thirsty clime, like that of Egypt, water is the greatest

 

 

