 

 

 

192 TWILIGHT IN run onsar HALL.

worn as they are by the accidents of 3000 years, still display,
under a strong light, much of their original vividness. It is
a perfect wilderness of ruin, almost outrunning the wildest
imagination or the most fantastic dream. We paced slowly
down the central avenue. The bases of the columns are buried
among the fallen fragments of the roof and a mass of superin-
cumbent earth ; from his hiding-place amidst which the jackal
began to steal forth, and wake the echoes of the ruins with his
blood-curdling shriek; whilst the shadowy bat ﬂitted, spirit-
like, from dusky pillar to pillar. From the centre of the hall,
whichever way we looked through the deepening gloom, there
seemed no end to the labyrinthine ruins. Obelisks and columns,
some erect in their pristine beauty, others fallen across, and
hurled together in hideous confusion, forming wild arcades of
ruin; enormous masses of prostrate walls and propylea, seemed
to have required either to construct or to destroy them the power
of a fabled race of giants. Pillars, obelisks, and walls of this
immense hall, were covered with the forms of monarchs who
reigned, and of the gods who were once worshipped within it.
Involuntarily the mind goes back, in gazing on them, to the
period of its original splendour, when Rameses in triumph re-
turned from his oriental conquests,——pictures the pile in all its
completeness, the hall of a hundred and thirty columns with its
superb roof, glittering in all the vivid beauty of its paintings,
thronged with monarchs, and priests, and worshippers, and
devoted to splendid and gorgeous ceremonies.

The impression produced by Egyptian architecture, and par-
ticularly by this stupendous hall, as well as by the mute forms
which gaze upon us from the walls, is one of profound solemnity
rather than the admiration of beauty. There is none of the
divine intellectual harmony of Grecian art. We are awed by
the vastness and simplicity of the temples, and by the abstruse
symbols of the Egyptian religion with which they are covered.
It has been remarked that this feeling grows upon the traveller
as he remains in Egypt. Everything that he falls in with

 

 

