 

 

 

92 THE PERRY AT GHIZEH.

obscuring all but the nearest objects in a cloud of pale red
haze. We kept on our way nevertheless; by the time we
reached the open suburbs, the squall gradually passed over;
and when we reached the ferry over the Nile at Old Cairo, the
sky was perfectly serene.

This ferry is one of the most beautiful, as well as bustling
spots in Egypt. The light arabesque houses and swarming
cafés of Old Cairo run parallel with the river, and in front
is an open space piled up with immense heaps of corn, which,
in this dry climate, are left without danger in the open air.
There are women selling rich clusters of grapes, melons, ﬁgs,
and dates. An incessant and most noisy crowd pours down to
the ferry upon horses, camels, and donkeys. The river comes
down in a broad and glassy current, divided into two chan-
nels by the island of Rhoda, the greenest and most beautiful in
all Egypt, at the point of which is the building containing the
Nilometer, for ascertaining the rise of the river. Its banks are
lined by large djerms, or carrying boats, while others sweep
down with their blue striped latine sails, swelling to the breeze
like the expanded wings of some enormous bird. On the 0p-
posite side, above the chocolate-coloured alluvial bank, extends
for miles a rich green level, brilliant with luxuriant and va-
riegated crops, dotted with palm groves, and enlivened by Arab
villages and minarets. At its extremity, in the strongest con-
trast, are the yellow sands of the Libyan desert, on the rising
edge of which are ranged the eternal pyramids. In the time
of the Romans, when Memphis was yet a great city, there was a
bridge of boats across the Nile some where near this spot; but

, now the communication is entirely kept up by means of the

ferry. We squeezed down with the rest, and after much con-
tention among the boatmen for the prize of an extra piastre,
were huddled, with our donkeys, into one of the smaller barks;
and, the huge sail being loosed, in a few moments ﬂew across
to the opposite side, and mustered our donkeys upon ‘the raised
agger or dyke. Our ride across the plain was somewhat cir-

 

 

 

 

 

‘—-— m—v-*ﬁ

