 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

124 “ BUCKsnnEsI-L”

labours almost to frenzy, with the difﬁculty to be surmounted.
For all this, they have, like other people, a class morality and
feeling, being far more honest and courteous to one another than
to the Fellahs on shore, whose property they always steal when
they can, without thinking any thing of it; a practice, by
the way, religiously reciprocated by the landsmen.

Nothing can be done with them without frequent presents of
meat or money. Dr. Olin amusingly says, “ Gratuities of all
sorts, in food, money, or any other form, are denominated
‘ bucksheesh.’ This is the ﬁrst word in the language which a
traveller is likely to learn, and the least tenacious memory is in
no danger of forgetting it. It is repeated by every body and
on all occasions. If the traveller turns his eye ever so carc-
lessly towards a boat or a buffalo, a pile of wheat or a sack of
dates, he is asked for bucksheesh by the persons who have the
charge of these objects. If you look into a cabin or the gate of a
village, you are expected to pay ‘ bucksheesh.’ Every person who
does you any service, in addition to the stipulated or usual pay,
expects ‘ bucksheesh.’ If we speak kindly to the Reis or sailors,
or even look upon them with an unclouded brow, they demand
this species of tribute. If the wind proves favourable, or we
have succeeded in driving them to their work a little earlier
than usual, or in keeping under sail till the sun is fairly out of
sight, it is sure to be hailed as an auspicious occasion when we
may testify our approbation by a gratuity. Our sailors, as
often as we will listen to them, amuse us with stories about the
Howagas, or Frank gentlemen, whom they have formerly
carried upon the Nile. In all of their narratives they have no
other standard of excellence than the amount of bucksheesh
bestowed upon them. The man who has given bucksheesh
liberally, no matter if he has ﬂogged them every day, is always
taib.’ All others are evil in their sight.”

I have now become quite accustomed to this boating, and in
many respects it is unequalled travelling. I have not yet de-

' Goodﬁexcellent.

 

a”. -_— 4.9—.n..-v'-,_..v - i4

-—_—- -m-‘ - v—_._.,-_ .1 ﬂ

 

 

“ﬁr-w- . l.

