 

 

THE SANCTUARY. 195

form the inner side.” This is the spot which I have selected
for a retrospective view of the Great Hall, the obelisk still
standing, but the propylma in the fore-ground a mass of utter
ruin. Still following the intricate plan of the great temple
through the ruined propylaea in the fore-ground, we reach
another court with two obelisks of larger dimensions, the one
now standing being 92 feet high and 8 square, surrounded by a
peristyle, if I may be allowed the expression, of Osiride ﬁgures.
Passing between two dilapidated propylsea, you enter another
smaller area, ornamented in a similar manner, and succeeded by
a vestibule, in front of the granite gateways that form the facade
of the court before the sanctuary. This last is also of red
granite, divided into two apartments, and surrounded by numer-
ous chambers of small dimensions, varying from 29 feet by 16,
to 16 feet by 8. The walls of this small sanctuary, standing
on the site of a more ancient one, are highly polished, sculp-
tured, and painted, and the ceiling of stars, on a blue ground,
the whole exquisitely ﬁnished. The entire height of the hall,
i. e. the central portion, is not less than 80 feet, the propyleea
still higher.

The imagination is no doubt bewildered in following these
numerous details, and yet much is left undescribed and even
unnoticed, and the eye, even of the visitor, more than satisﬁed
with seeing, will return to the prominent objects, those alone of
which he can expect to retain a vivid recollection. The Great
Hall will attract his attention above everything else. Of its
immensity the diﬁ'erent views introduced will, I hope, convey
some impression, though confessedly a very inadequate one.
Besides the grandeur of its proportions, he will be struck
with the elaborate manner in which every part was sculptured
and painted, with representations of the worship of the chief
deity of Thebes, which, emblematic as they might be to the
learned, to the common people must have had a highly debasing
and sensualizing tendency. Perhaps the ﬁnest historical sculp-
tures at Thebes are to be found on the eastern external wall of

 

 

