 

 

 

KENEH. 143

In the smaller temple of Isis, behind the great temple,
and in another, at some distance in front of it, are
lateral columns bearing the distorted ﬁgure of a Typhonian
monster, which so curiously contrasts with the head of Isis
in the portico of the principal temple, as to have given rise
to the impression, that it was dedicated to the evil genius of
the Egyptians ; but according to Wilkinson, this idea is errone-
ous, the building in question having also a relation to Athor.

The wood cut gives a sufﬁcient general idea of the great
temple. 0n the architrave is a procession to the goddess, and
the ﬂat sides of the building are relieved by enormous sculp-
tures, which have, however, little or none of that historical or
artistic interest. attaching to those of Thebes.

We crossed by the ferry over the river to Keneh, having
sent on the boat before. We had some difﬁculty in ﬁnding it
among the many that lined the bank, for this is the most
bustling place above Cairo, owing to its being the starting-
point for the port of Cosseir on the Red Sea, three days across
the desert, and more especially for the transport of the nu-
merous pilgrims who now prefer this route for Mecca to the
more toilsome one by way of Suez and Akaba. The supply of
their wants creates much activity in the bazaars, and there is
reason to fear that there are few of the pious Hadji who do not
somewhat increase the amount of their transgressions at Keneh.
Mr. St. John, in his rapturous description of the temple of
Dendera, dedicated to the Egyptian Venus, says, that the power

in whose honour it was built, still protects its fane from utter
‘ destruction. He might rather have said that, abandoning her
ancient haunts to the owls and bats, she has simply crossed over
the river, to establish her peculiar worship with an absence of
all mystery, and even decency, by day as by night, among the
thoust mud hovels of the modern town. “ It is difﬁcult to
conjecture,” says a reverend traveller, “ what may have given to
Keneh a distinction so peculiar and discreditable. Some people
may think that its being a halting-place for the pilgrims is

 

 

