 

 

 

___ ﬁt—g—w-

 

 

 

suvsav IN AMERICA. 133

Sitting somewhat apart was a very interesting little boy, whose
appearance struck me, which, when the Jellab observed, he urged
him forward to solicit a beckshish. I inquired, through Salem,
if he also was for sale; the Jellab, with a smile, replied that he
was, and that he could recommend him too, for he was his own
son, his mother being a handsome Abyssinian slave, by the
sale of whose oﬂ'spring he thus expected to reconcile proﬁt
with pleasure. It was some consolation to hope that this poor
child might ﬁnd in the humanity of a Turkish or Arab master
the protection which his own father denied; that if gifted by
nature he might perchance rise to a high station in society,
and become the counsellor of princes,—a redeeming feature in
the system of oriental slavery, which is wanting in the far
more cruel and hopeless despotism of the great western re-
public.

Scenes like thesc are painful to witness even in Egypt, but
what are they compared with such as follow? “ The next case,”
says a correspondent of the Cincinnati Iﬁrald, “ was that of a
young white woman, sixteen years old, with a young child. I
say white woman, because the auctioneer said she was only one-
eighth black, and I have seen many of the fair girls of Ohio
who could not boast of as fair complexion, or as good ﬁgure or
features. She came upon the stand with her infant in her
arms, in the deepest misery. A gentleman, who had taken his
seat beside me, observing that I was very interested, remarked
he thought I was a stranger in that country. I answered that
I was. ‘These things look odd to you?’ ‘ They do.’ Said
he, ‘ You see that man in the crowd,’ pointing to one within a
few paces of the stand, ‘ that is Dr. 0. He hired that girl last
year, and that child is his !’ The Georgian bid three hundred
dollars; some one bid four; the Georgian bid four ﬁfty; the
girl cast a piercing glance at the crowd,—her eyes rested on
Dr. 0., who instantly averted his face. She gazed one moment,
then burst into a torrent of tears. She was knocked off to the
Georgian. Thus the ﬁend saw his child and its mother sold

q..- ..

 

__ _ n .n- ”#7

‘

 

c—u-‘u-J

 

