 

 

 

122 THE RAMADAN.

manners and customs of the ancient Egyptians. In the tomb re-
presented, there is on the top of the left-hand wall a procession
of ﬁgures which has attracted much attention. The tomb is of
the early time of Osirtesen I., with whom Joseph is supposed to
have been contemporary, and it has been sometimes imagined
that this band of strangers might be the brethren of the patri-
arch. The group will be gazed on with great interest, though
Wilkinson is unable to admit the above supposition, as, though
obviously orientals, their number does not agree with that given
in the Bible; they are, besides, represented as captives, and the
name of the owner of the tomb, who was governor of this part
of the country, is also totally different. Besides the tombs
which so strongly resemble Doric porticoes, there are others
which display the early style of Egyptian architecture, formed
upon the imitation of the lotus and papyrus, which is carried
out more fully in the temples.

Tracking is toilsome for the men, and small is the pro-
gress thus made against the current; a new source of delay
also has arisen in the Ramadan, the “ month of fasting,” whose
inauspicious moon succeeded this night. My servant is a rigid
and pious Mussulman, and pilgrim to boot ; several times a day
he prostrates himself upon the deck. Happily his zeal in my
service seems to keep pace with his piety, and his fury against
the worthless Reis more than equals the fervour of his prayers.
I was condoling with him on the hardship of preparing so many
good dishes, of which he could not partake on account of his
religious principles; when he gravely smiled, and assured me
that I was under a mistake, there being a special exemption in
behalf of travellers, who, in consideration of their fatigues, were
allowed to perform their month’s fasting by future instalments,
d discretion, in the same manner as Sancho liquidated his thou-
sand lashes. I asked if this merciful provision also extended to
the Reis and sailors, but this idea he indignantly repudiated; as
they were only labouring in their ordinary vocation, the exemp-
tion did not apply to them; and this curious distinction without

 

 

