 

 

..._. H... ¢-_— 1
_-_ _ _-—..—._--—'I—'——

 

—.—DU—-— .“

EXCURSION T0 HELIOPOLIS. 89

ments, but within described as particularly “ snug and comfort-
able lying.”

It is a pleasant ride of two hours from Cairo to the site of
Heliopolis. Passing through the Bab e Nusr, and a long
suburb, the road keeps between avenues of acacias, along near
the edge of the cultivated land, which is watered by channels
from the Nile, communicating with the canal which traverses the
city, and presenting many pretty rural scenes. In the desert
on the right are one or two of the ruinous tombs straggling
afar from the cemetery of Kaitbay. One of these appertains
to the celebrated Melek Adel, the brother of Saladin. Before
reaching the mounds of Heliopolis is a well of ﬁne water, on
the border of a garden of citrons and palms; in the midst of
these is a venerable old sycamore with hollow trimk, under
which the holy family reposed, according to tradition, on the
ﬂight into Egypt, and drank of the well. It is in truth a very
pretty spot; the citron thickets resound with the music of birds,
and large vultures rock to and fro on the trembling branches
of the palms; the knotted hollow trunk bears, like the old olives
in the garden of Gethsemane, marks of the knives of in-
numerable pilgrims. The balsam tree, according to Pococke,
was brought here by Cleopatra from the celebrated gardens of
Jericho, but it is no longer met with in either place. A little
beyond the village of Mataréeh we enter the area of Heliopolis,
between the mounds which indicate the walls of crude brick
which surrounded it. The city was small, about half a mile
square; it was merely a collection of colleges and temples, but
of the greatest celebrity, as the chief seat of Egyptian learning.
Strabo was shown the extensive dwellings of the learned priests,
and the houses where Eudoxus and Plato remained thirteen
years under their tuition. The traveller who approaches the
site along a dead level, is surprised to ﬁnd that Heliopolis
stood formerly on an artiﬁcial elevation, overlooking lakes

which were fed by canals communicating with the Nile. ‘

Nothing whatever remains of the splendid ediﬁces of this

6.

 

 

 

I
i

____-|

