 

 

BAB ZOOAYLEH. 67

Muslims of India. “7e were much affected by seeing many
of the blind paupers who are supported at the mosque, bent
double by age, slowly walking through the avenues of columns,
knowing from habit every turn and every passage, and looking
like the patriarchs of the assembled multitude.”

It is said that no less than forty thousand individuals par-
took of the bounties of this establishment, and that on every
alternate day three thousand eight hundred pounds of bread,
and a quantity of oil for the lamps, were distributed.

Outside, at the door of the mosque, is represented a group
of donkeys with the ‘ Seis,’ or groom, awaiting the return of
some Arabian ladies from performing their devotions. A little
boy is seen with his school-board, an old pilgrim is emerging
from the sacred courts, and groups of students are lounging or
reading the Koran within the shady retirement of the Cloisters.

The gates of Cairo, no less than the mosques and tombs,
are among its noble specimens of Arabian architecture, and
each has a peculiar aspect and physiognomy of its own. The
Bab Zooayleh is now in the interior of the city, which, after the
time of Saladin, was extended up to the citadel, so as to
embrace the Kalat el Kebsb, or palace of Sultan Tooloon, near
the ancient mosque already described. At present this gate
stands in the most bustling and crowded part of the bazaar, at
the intersection of the main avenue with another principal
street, and with the adjacent mosque, whose elegant minarets
rest upon it as a basement, and are among the most striking
ornaments of this very picturesque portion of the city. The
gateway itself bears so remarkable a resemblance to the Gothic
portals of castles and towns in our own country, especially at
York, that it might be supposed that the one had originated the
other. Mr. Lane gives a curious account of a superstition con-
nected with this gate, which is said to be one of the spots haunted
by the Kutb, or most holy of the Welees, or saints of such high
sanctity, that although not disembodied, and of the humblest
appearance and garb, they are invested with certain super-

 

 

