 

*W -m‘.

 

 

194 DETAILS or. THE GREAT HALL.

tended to produce a spirit of profound reverence, which, how-
ever, degenerated into a narrow and slavish superStition.

Amun, the presiding deity of Thebes, may, as Wilkinson ob-
serves, be considered under two distinct characters,—as Amun-
re, king of the gods, answerable to the Grecian Jupiter, or as
Amunre Generator. Amun with Maut and Khonso formed
the great triad of divinities worshipped at Thebes. The
forms and emblems of these deities, in diﬂ'erent combinations,
look down upon us from every part of the temple. Besides the
divinities who had here their worship and their oracles, the
city of Thebes possessed her own presiding genius or god-
dess, whose emblems were discovered by- Sir Gardner Wilkin-
son in his examination of the great temple.

Next morning, after an early breakfast, I was again among
the ruins of the Great Hall, which I had but imperfectly surveyed
the previous evening. I remained there the whole day, shifting
from the shade of one column to another during the noontide
heat. Salem sent me some provisions by one of the sailors. I
give its dimensions from Wilkinson, with a description of the
rest of the temple. “ It measures 170 feet by 329, supported by a
central avenue of twelve massive columns, 66 feet high (without
the pedestal and abacus) and 1% in diameter, besides a hundred
and twenty-two of smaller, or rather less gigantic dimensions, 41
feet 9 inches in height, and 27 feet 6 inches in circumference, dis-
tributed in seven lines on either side of the former. The twelve
central columhs were originally fourteen, but the two northern-
most have been enclosed within the front towers or pr0pylsea,
apparently in the time of Osirei himself, the founder of the hall.
The two at the other end were also partly built into the project-
ing wall of the doorway, as appears from their rough sides, which
were left uneven for that purpose. Attached to this are two other
towers, closing the inner extremity of the hall, beyond which
are two obelisks, one still standing on its original site, the other
having been thrown down and broken by human violence.
Similar but smaller propylma succeedto this court, of which they

 

 

