 

 

THE PLAGUES or EGYPT. 35

cabin with wholesale slaughter, a few moments afterwards
they blacken its panels as before, and you piteously invoke
the breeze which would perhaps disperse the buzzing swarm
of your mud-born tormentors, or, peradventure, wait you
beyond their reach. In the fat slime of the Delta they are
particularly numerous and active. I was told by a friend, who
one evening pitched his tent on this rich level, that in addi-
tion to these plagues, he was visited by a numerous company of
toads,.which he kicked out of his tent without much ceremony.
One, however, was accidentally left behind; upon which,
recumbent on his carpet in the midst of a tormenting swarm of
ﬂies and mosquitoes, the traveller’s eye mechanically rested.
The creature, ‘ perdu ’ in his nook, was deeply intent on snap-
ping up ﬂy after ﬂy as they darted past his open maw; upon
which sight my friend immediately arose, and drove in again
the whole company of the toads, in the hope of some triﬂing
diminution, through their exertions, of the number of his petty
tormentors. In addition to these, equally to be dreaded ashore
or aﬂoat, many and sore are the land plagues peculiar to Egypt,
and no one who has been accustomed to a northern climate
and a civilized country, can form any adequate idea of the
annoyance they occasion. The troops of clamorous beggars,
their eternal chorus for ‘ beckshish,’ which every where encount-
ers the traveller,—the alarming results of contact with the
tattered garments and ﬁlthy persons of the claimants,—the
eternal howling of dogs by which he is every where beset,
some of which are savage and dangerous,—the whirlwinds of
hot suffocating dust amidst which he must grope his way to
tomb and temple, irritate alike his eyes, lungs, and temper,
and too often convert his enthusiasm to fury.

There is much that is at ﬁrst amusing even on the lower
Nile, though the scenery is, on the whole, somewhat monoton-
ous. The villages of mud huts, embowered in palm groves
that line the bank, with their pretty white minarets, and their
noisy babbling crowd of Fellahs,— the glimpses ,of the vivid

 

 

 

. 1—.- _.

 

