 

 

44 aaarvar. AT canto.

tion would take place by fusion with the diﬁ'erent races who con-
quered Egypt—the Ethiopians, the Greeks and Romans, and
the Arabians. This view is after all perhaps the most probable,
for in all the sculptures there is more or less of a decidedly
African type. The Copts are generally considered to be the
most direct descendants of the ancient Egyptians; while others,
Dr. Morton, for instance, regard the present Fellahs as more
justly entitled to this distinction. The opinion of an Ethiopian
and not an Asiatic origin for the Egyptians and their civiliza-
tion, has been maintained by many scholars ; and in accordance
with this belief the pyramids of Marco have been cited as
earlier than those of Memphis, but recent examination has
rectiﬁed this erroneous inlpression.

After passing the fork of the Delta, where the Damietta
branch of the Nile joins that of Rosetta, and the spot where the
works of the ‘ barrage,’ or plan for damming up the waters of
the Nile, so as more effectually to irrigate the Delta, are now
in operation, we ﬁrst caught sight of the mighty pyramids.
How familiar and yet how strange they appeared—hovering
afar in dusky grandam upon the edge of the yellow Libyan
desert—overlooking the green valley of the Nile! Like the
ﬁrst far-off glimpse of the Alps, it is a sensation there is no
describing nor forgetting. And soon after, ages apart as it
were from these memorials of the early Egyptian kings, the
fantastic minarets of Cairo, built by the Arab conquerors of
their fallen empire, peeped forth, on the other side of the river,
from amidst a luxuriant mass of palm-groves and gardens,
answering in every respect to our conceptions of a perfect
oriental city, a few new factories built by Mehemet Ali
being the only signs of modern innovation. Passing the pasha’s
villa at Shoubra, connected with the capital by a ﬁne avenue of
trees, we soon reached the busy quays of Boulak, the port of
Cairo. The shore was lined with kiosques and coffee-houses
full of indolent smokers, and crowds of camels and asses with
most vociferous drivers. Vast heaps of com, the wealth of the

 

 

