 

 

 

 

 

THE HAUNTED HOUSE. 79

fellow-servants, crying, ‘ Come up, the accursed is struck down
before me !’ and this was followed by such mysterious sounds,
that we believed either a man had been shot, and was in his
last agony, or that our man had accidentally shot himself.

“ My brother went round the gallery, while I and my sister-
in-law stood, like children, trembling hand in hand, and my boys
mercifully slept (as young ones do sleep) sweetly and soundly
through all the confusidn and distress. It appeared that the
man used not only ball cartridges, but put two charges of
powder, with balls, into his pistol. I will describe the event,
however, in his own words :—‘ The Efrit passed me in the
gallery and repassed me, when I thus addressed it, ‘ Shall we
quit this house, or will you do so?’ ‘ You shall quit it,’ he
answered; and, passing me again, he threw dirt into my right
eye. This proved he was a devil,’ continued the man, ‘ and I
wrapped my cloak around me and watched the spectre as it
receded. It stopped in that corner, and I observed its appear-
ance attentively. It was tall and perfectly white. I stooped,
and before I moved again discharged my pistol, which I had
before concealed, and the accursed was struck down before me,
and here are the remains.’ So saying, he picked up a small
burnt mass, which my brother showed us afterwards, resembling
more the sole of a shoe than anything else, but perforated by
ﬁre in several places, and literally burnt to a cinder. This the
man asserted was always the relic when a devil was destroyed,
and it lay on the ground under a part of the wall where the
bullets had entered. The noise which succeeded the report,
and which ﬁlled me with horror, is and must ever remain a
mystery. 0n the following morning we closely examined the
spot, and found nothing that could throw light on the subject.
The burnt remains do not help us to a conclusion; one thing,
however, I cannot but believe, that some one who had person-
ated the spirit suffered some injury, and that the darkness
favoured his escape.”

This story so remarkably resembles one told by the different

 

 

