 

 

THE CAIREEN BHOPMAN. ' 59

whom be invoked the curse of God, a curse, it is to be feared,
uttered not loud but deep by all classes save the employés of
government. His wind and endurance were surprising; he
would trot after his donkey by the hour together, urging and
prodding it along with a pointed stick, as readily in the burn-
ing sandy environs, and under the noon-day sun, as in the cool
and shady alleys of the crowded capital; running, dodging,
striking, and shouting with all the strength of his lungs through
the midst of its labyrinthine obstructions.

The water-carrier (to the left of the donkey-boy) is an old
familiar ﬁgure, met with at every corner in Cairo. Notwith-
standing the supply at the fountains, the purer element from
the Nile is brought upon camels and asses into the city, and
retailed in the manner here represented.

The Caireen shopman is utterly unlike the same character in
a western metropolis. He does but little business, and is in no
sort of hurry over it; he has, indeed, some difﬁculty to kill the
time, even with the aid of pipe and prayers. Here is no
fear of “ tremendous competition,” and no danger of an “ early
closing movement.” Every thing jogs on in its old appointed
way. The shopman takes his seat on his little carpet in the
front of his open shop, ﬁlls his pipe, and smokes on steadily.
Does a customer approach? another pipe is presented and ﬁlled,
and at intervals between the puffs, the negociation is gradually
carried forward. The vender begins by asking too much, and
the purchaser by offering too little, and by the time the pipe is
ended the difference is adjusted, and the bargain concluded
“in the name of God.” When the sonorous and somewhat
mournful cry of the Muezzin thrills from the gallery of some
neighbouring minaret through the dusky recesses of the
bazaars, the shopkeeper arises, and unconscious of, or at all
events indifferent to observation, goes reverentially through
the appointed round of prayer and praise. At intervals, per-
haps, having no newspaper to keep him alive, he retails with
his neighbour, or with a casual passenger, the rumours of the

 

 

