 

 

 

nmrrms AND 11‘s ms'roar. 101

its utmost height of grandeur under the Ramessean princes, it
became secondary to that city. It was taken by the Persian king
- Cambyses, on his invasion of Egypt. After his return from
Thebes, dispirited at the loss of a large portion of his army, he
found the people rejoicing at the discovery of a suitable suc-
cessor to the bull Apis, who had died. He regarded the
festival as an insult, and commanding the sacred bull to be
brought into his presence, stabbed it with his dagger, and
laughingly told the priests that it was made of ﬂesh and blood,
and no god. Here he received numerous embassies and mag-
niﬁcent presents from the conquered nations of Asia. Hero-
dotus visited Egypt soon after the overthrow of the Persian
dynasty, and at Memphis he made his longest stay. He found
the city then at its greatest size, while Thebes again was
gradually declining: with its citadel and suburbs it had then
a circuit of sixteen miles. It was still a splendid city when
Alexander the Great, after his victories over the Persians,
advanced to the conquest of Egypt. The Macedonian army
crossed the Nile at Heliopolis, and, without opposition, en-
tered Memphis. The wise policy of Alexander was widely
diﬂ'erent from the insensate fury of Cambyses; he assured the
Egyptians that he came to re-establish their ancient monarchy,
went in state to the temple, and sacriﬁced to the sacred bull.
From Memphis he ﬂoated down the Nile to the Canopic mouth,
sailed round the lake M’areotis, and landing at Racotis, laid
the foundation of Alexandria. Under the Ptolemies, various
Greek and Roman travellers describe Memphis still as being
great and ﬂourishing, when Thebes was reduced to ruin in
consequence of rebellion against Ptolemy Lathyrus. Under
the Romans and the Byzantine emperors, it was still, after
Alexandria, the chief city of Egypt; nor did it ﬁnally sink,
until the invasion of the Arabs under Amrou, who laid
siege to its defensive fortress of Babylon on the other side the
Nile, already described, and, assisted by treachery, made him-
self master of it. He next marched to the reduction of Alex-

 

