 

 

208 NUBIAN mvnns.

ness. “ Our attention,” says 01in, “was soon attracted to two
Nubian boys, who pursued us in quest of bucksheesh, by a
species of navigation more simple and rude than our own.
They had bound their scanty wardrobe in a bundle upon the
tOp of their heads, and seated themselves astride a stick,—
perhaps six inches in diameter, and ﬁve feet long, the forward
end a little ﬂattened to diminish the resistance of the water;
they used their hands for paddles, and with this ticklish craft
outsailed us, and ran across our track at pleasure. Sometimes
they sat upright, extending their legs before them close to the
log; they would lie on it at full length, one behind the other,
still moving with undiminished velocity. I felt some concern
for their adventure at ﬁrst, but was soon relieved of my appre-
hension when I saw the admirable skill with which they re-
tained their difﬁcult position and guided their rolling bark.
After amusing themselves and us for a considerable time, and re-
ceiving the bucksheesh, they returned to the shore. These boys
were hardly more than six years of age. Soon after we witnessed
another specimen of the aquatic skill of this amphibious race:
-—half-a-dozen young men and well-grown boys, who were
upon the beach near us, threw of their clothes, and, running at
full speed over the rocks for more than a quarter of a mile, to a
bluff overlooking the falls, plunged into the foaming torrent.
They were borne along by the current with fearful velocity,
tossed on high and buried, alternately, by its fury; they dashed
away the waves nobly, raising their hands high out of the water
at every stroke; the head was carried very low, with the face
apparently in the water, to avoid the greater resistance by the
breast. It was a wild and exciting spectacle.”—0n we still went,
darting from one side to another as the eddies required, till we
reached at length a point where the increasing roar of the river
gave signs of serious impediment to our progress. Here our
Nubians, leaping into the stream and gaining the overhanging
rocks, with loud shouts began to haul up the boat; but the
force of the waters was such that, in spite of our still straining

 

-_.—..—__.-

 

 

