 

 

 

HISTORICAL SKETCH or THERES. 149

coins, scarabei, &c., most suspiciously modern in appearance,
were thrust into our hands. All the trade and business of
modern Thebes was at once before us; it had moved down from
the tombs of Gomou to the river’s bank, for the sole object of
extracting a few piastres from the purse of a solitary traveller.

Such was our approach to this great city, the origin of which
is too remote to be within the ken of history. The older monu~
ments of Theban sculpture, says Mr. Sharpe, who, it should be
remembered, is one of the most cautious of Egyptian inquirers,
teach us the names of numerous kings of. Thebes, as also of
Memphis, and of the Arab or Phenician shepherds; and though
there may be doubts as to the order in which these early
dynasties are to be placed, yet they leave us in no doubt as to
the high antiquity which must be granted to this earliest of na-
tions. Greek history begins with the Trojan war. Jewish
history begins seven hundred years earlier, with the migration
of Abraham from Chaldaaa; but even when this father of the
Hebrew nation led his herds to drink of the waters of the Nile,
Egypt was already a highly civilized country. It was after the fall
of This, or Abydos, that Thebes rose to be the capital of Upper
Egypt; and it was, perhaps, in the reign of the second .or third
Theban king that Abraham entered the Delta. Osirtesen I.,
who raised the obelisk at Heliopolis, is the ﬁrst great name in
the history of Thebes; he was the builder of the older and
smaller part of the temple of Karnak, which served as the
nucleus around which his successors grouped other and more
colossal additions. This early Theban monarchy was, in fact,
a religious community, in which the palace was a temple, the
people worshippers at the gate, and the monarch the chief
priest. The dynasty of Osirtesen was terminated by the con-
quest of Upper Egypt by the Memphite monarchs who erected
the pyramids.

The irruption of the shepherd kings who conquered Mem-
phis, extended also to Thebes, over which they obtained a
temporary mastery. Amosis, king of Thebes, had the glory of

 

 

