 

 

£14 ABUSIMBAL.

Abusimbal; and in 1817, at the desire of Mr. Salt, then English
consul at Cairo, Belzoni, with Captains Irby and Mangles, and
Mr. Beechy, visited them with the view of removing the sand
from the entrance of the great temple, which object, after much
labour, they at length succeeded in accomplishing, while Mr.
Hay completed the good work by clearing the doorway entirely
to its base.

There are several temples between Phile and Abusimbal, of
more or less interest from their sculptural records, but that of
Kalabshe is the only one that challenges attention by its archi-
tectural beauty. It is a graceful structure of the later period
of Egyptian art, being built in the reign of Augustus, and
ﬁnished by his successors. Its sculptures also are very ﬁne.

The facade of the great temple at Abusimbal is smoothed
perpendicularly in the face of the rock overlooking the Nile. It
is 120 feet in length and about 90 in height, surrounded with a
moulding, and adorned with a cornice and frieze. Attached to
this facade are several stupendous colossal statues of Rameses
II. They are represented as seated on thrones, including
which, their total height may be between 60 and 70 feet. This
vastness of scale alone is calculated to produce an effect of
sublimity, and in addition, it is admitted by almost every
traveller, that the heads of these colossal statues are the most
beautiful in Egypt. Others less partial to the peculiarities of
Egyptian art, or contrasting it with the nobler style of the Gre-
cian, declare “ that you can stand within the presence of their
mightiest works of art without a particle of awe.” There is
nothing of the intellectual dignity of the Phidias of Jupiter in
these acknowledged chef d’ muvres of Egyptian sculpture. The
countenance has the same heavy form, and thick lips, that uni-
formly characterizes the rest of their creations. But, of its kind,
it certainly is perfection itself. There is a benevolent tran-
quillity, a certain godlike serenity and superhuman gentleness,
thrown over these massively moulded features, in which, as
Denon remarked of the Sphynx, there is something of a

 

 

