 

 

cor.oss.u. STATUE. 175

Memnon, and other ediﬁces, the site of which is obscure.
The ruins of the Memnonium, or palace and temple of Rameses
IL, rise grandly upon the eye, far surpassing in effect those of
Medeenet Habou. The immense propylon, covered with sculp-
ture, which formed the entrance to the ﬁrst court, the walls of
which are destroyed; the second wall of this court, with the
picturesque Osiride columns attached to it, with the fragments of
the colossal statue at their foot, form so noble and characteristic
a specimen of Egyptian architecture in ruin, that I could not
resist the temptation of transferring it to my sketch-book. Per-
haps the drawing may convey to the mind of the reader some
measure of that wonder with which I regarded the prostrate
fragments of that statue of Syenite granite,'than which nothing
in Thebes so well justiﬁes the expression of Belzoni, that you
appear to be wandering here among a city of giants. The por-
tion seen in perspective in the drawing is merely the head,
chest, and upper part of the ﬁgure, broken in the middle; it is
22 feet 4 inches across the shoulders, and 14 feet 4 inches from
the neck to the elbow. “ To say that this is the largest statue
in Egypt will convey no idea of the gigantic size or enormous
weight of a mass, which, from an approximate calculation, ex-
ceeded, when entire, nearly three times the solid contents of the
great obelisk at Karnak, and weighed about 887 tons, 5‘} hun-
dred-weight.” On the wall of the propylon in the back-ground
is seen Rameses II. in his chariot driving upon a host of
fugitive enemies during one of his Asiatic campaigns.

The Memnonium, though not the most colossal, is, perhaps,
the most chaste and elegant specimen of Egyptian architecture,
at its period of characteristic perfection, before its proportions
were altered by the infusion of Grecian taste. It was, ori-
ginally, a vast and sumptuous structure, the effect of which,
even in its present fragmentary state, it is not difﬁcult to
imagine. Its lofty propylma, or gateway towers, covered with
historical sculptures, gave access to the ﬁrst open court, in
which stood the colossal statue, the fragments of which we have

 

 

