 

.-——..._-

 

144 I KENEH.

almost enough to account for the mystery, since ‘ perils,’ as
Bacon remarks, ‘ commonly ask to be paid in pleasures.’ ”

We found that our pilgrim boat had preceded us, and recog-
nised all our Mussulmen acquaintances in going about the town,
who saluted us very courteously. They seemed quite superior
to a large proportion of their brethren, a set of dirty fanatics,
lounging about in the cafés, whose sallow visages were length-
ened by the compulsory fast of the Ramadan. “ Sufﬁciently dis-
agreeable,” says Hope, “ as it might appear for every purpose of
salvation when it falls in winter, the month of the Ramadan seems
absolutely invented for the destruction of the Moslemin species
when the procession of the lunar months brings it round to the
longest and hottest days in summer. It is then that the Chris-
tian rising from a plenteous meal, if he has common prudence,
avoids all intercourse whatever with the fasting Turk, whose
devout stomach, void of all but soumess and bile, grumbles
loudly over each chance-medley of the sort as over malice pre-
pense, rises in anger at the supposed insult, and vents its
acrimony in bitter invectives.”

The fair companions of our pilgrims, whose glances from
their boat had sometimes solaced me in the dreary absence
of female charms upon the Nile, were lodged in the upper
story of a sort of Khan, built by a wealthy and portly native.
Of this building, the lower portion had a rude portico which
opened on the river, and where a Frank or two in the employ
of the pasha were wont to smoke away the tedious hours and
look out for the passage of travellers, whose conversation might
solace their compulsory banishment.

Here we had quite a levee. First came the aforesaid portly
personage of digniﬁed presence, who acted as agent to the
English at Cosseir, and fulﬁlled in some sort the functions of a
vice-consul. He was very complimentary, and begged to know
if there was anything he could do for us. We brought for-
ward the delinquencies of the Reis and sailors, with whom we
had been of late abominably harassed, and he, in the hand-

 

 

