 

 

 

mm. or nmxommu. 177

elegant columns. It will be seen that the architecture is imita-
tive of the vegetable life of the country, the capital being capied
from the graceful bell-shaped ﬂower of the papyrus. The
adornments also are designed from the stalks and ﬂowers of
different plants, painted in blue and green, and they are often
exquisitely beautiful. The more chaste and classical buildings
of the Bamessean period, as in the present instance, have their
ranges of columns and capitals uniform, while, as will be seen
in the drawing of Edfou, those of the Ptolemaic period are
studiously different, all of them too being combinations of
vegetable forms, which, varied and graceful as they are, yet
by that very variety detract, in a symmetrical architecture like
that of the Egyptian temple, from simplicity of general effect.

Taking into account the grave, yet elegant simplicity of its
architecture, the gorgeous decorations consisting of divine
ﬁgures and symbols, imitative of the starry orbs of heaven, and
the beautiful plants and ﬂowers of the sacred Nile, together
with the battle scenes carved upon the side walls commemorat-
ing the victories of the Egyptian monarchs, or processions to
their gods, all blended by a rich and glowing reﬂection of the
light admitted from the side apertures, we may fancy what must
have been the impressiveness and beauty of this hall in its state
of pristine perfection. It is certainly the most elegant, if not
the most stupendous in Egypt.

Among the battle scenes on the south wall of the great hall,
one is left—a curious scene, displaying the mode of attacking a
fortress upon a rock. Under cover of the testudo, a shield
composed of frame-work, and propped up, large enough to
shelter several men, and curved so as to afford a footing to
others, the assailants are engaged in mining, and planting
scaling ladders against the walls. Of 1 these testudos, four are
commanded by sons of Rameses the Great. One of their allies,
the extreme ﬁgure on the left, is endeavouring by use of a
sharp spike placed in the ﬁssures to clamber up the rock, which
others, mounted on the testudos, are vigorously escalading. The

N

 

 

 

