 

 

_‘._._____——...-———--.-

 

 

THE PTOLEMIES. 157

of ancestors, but none have ever had a better right to that boast
than the Egyptians. The Theban priest was speaking to Heca-
taeus in about the fortieth reign of this history, while his Greek
visitor only pretended to be the sixteenth in descent from the
gods. The Theban could then name with certainty more
sovereigns of his country in the order of succession than we
can kings of England. He was as fat removed from the ob-
scurity of antiquity as we English are in the nineteenth century.
It is true that he boasted that the oldest of his mummies was
ten times older than it is likely to have been ; but if he had
conﬁned himself to what we think the truth, his boast would
still have been very remarkable, and he could probably have
pointed to records standing around him which had existed some
centuries before the time of Abraham.

The Ptolemies added to the magniﬁcence of Thebes as well
as of all parts of Egypt. They made various additions to
the temples, and the most magniﬁcent Pylon or gateway at
Kamak owes its origin to a Ptolemy. We may notice here that
architecture was somewhat modiﬁed by Greek taste —— the

- columns of the temple being more elongated and elegant, the

capitals more varied, and the general effect lighter and more
graceful. Sculpture had greatly degenerated. The reign of
Ptolemy Lathyrus is remarkable for the rebellion of Thebes, and
for the ﬁnal consummation of her ruin. It had long been falling
in trade and wealth, and had lost its superiority in arms ;: but its
temples, like so many citadels, its obelisks, its colossal statues,
and the tombs of its great kings, yet remained, and with them
the memory of its bygone glory. The Thebans had borne for
two centuries and a half, under their Greek masters, political
servitude, heavy taxes, habitual arrogance, and occasional
cruelty. Under the government of Cleopatra Cocce the measure
of their injuries overﬂowed, and taking advantage of the
revolutions in Alexandria, a large part of Upper Egypt rose in
rebellion. When Lathyrus returned to Egypt, Thebes re-
fused her obedience. For three years the brave Copts, in-

 

“mm—h‘ .__.._ .—‘...___—._———. 5—.- ._— --__ . w

 

 

