 

 

166 FUNERAL OF THE MONARCH.

seen from the annexed copy of a portion of the sarcophagus
taken from this tomb, wherein Osiris is represented as sitting
on his throne, weighing the actions of the departed, an un-
happy soul, who for his sins has passed into the body of a
pig, being carried away in a boat.

In other sculptures, as well as in the papyrus “ Book of the
Dead ” in the Turin Museum, the doctrine is more fully
elaborated. The soul was supposed to be dormant until the
mummiﬁcation of the body was completed, when, after various
adventures, it ascended to the hall of Osiris, appearing on its
way before the forty-two assessors, each challenging it to prove
its innocence of a particular sin, in which, if it is successful, it
receives its due award, and passes into the regions of the blest.
In the great serpent, to which allusion has already been made,
and which is also found represented on this sarcophagus as over-
come, and conquered, and borne on the shoulders of men, we
see perhaps some remote analogy with the doctrine of the book
of Genesis.

The‘formation of costly tombs was encouraged by the priest-
hood, who derived thence additional inﬂuence, and many
years would sometimes be consumed in the elaborate decor-
ation of his future abode, by its wealthy proprietor. Nothing
could exceed the magniﬁcence of the funeral obsequies of
a virtuous monarch. A general mourning for seventy-two
days and a solemn fast was proclaimed, and numerous pro-
cessions of mourners through the streets extolled the virtues of
the deceased. Some idea of the splendour of the funeral pro-
cession of a king may be formed from various representations of
those of wealthy individuals. The most beautiful feature was
the passage of the sacred lake. After a long procession of
servants, and mourners, and priests bearing offerings, shrines,
ﬂowers, &c., and of wailing women beating their breasts, and
who, like those described in Scripture, cast dust upon their
heads, came the sarcophagus bearing the corpse. On reaching
the lake, the sarcophagus was transferred to the consecrated

 

 

