 

 

THE GREAT P031100. 141

than elevates, and which to the ordinary spectator is greatly
heightened by the sculptures and hieroglyphics which every
where cover the walls, in mute mysterious meaning, leading
back our thoughts to the recondite religious ideas which they
symbolize, and inspiring a deep and almost trembling curiosity
as to the rites which were celebrated in the recesses of
these soul-subduing temples. The ﬂat roof in its dusky ob-
scurity, and the grand portal of simple and heavy proportion,
with the inner chambers receding into utter darkness, add to
the effect of this ﬁrst impression.

The columns of the portico, of which there are twenty-four,
are peculiar ; at least there is no other instance of them on this
scale. Capitals, whose forms and details are generally borrowed
from the lotus and palm, and other plants and ﬂowers, consist
here of the head of the goddess Athor, the Venus of the Egyp-
tians, repeated fourfold, with a superincumbent addition which
gives a heavy and shapeless character to the entire column.
0f the faces scarcely one remains entire, which very much
impairs the eﬁ'ect doubtless intended to be produced by the
universal presence of the face, characterized, as Sir F. Henniker
remarks, by a “ bewitching half modesty,” which every where
beamed upon the intoxicated worshipper of the genial power.

The great portico, comparatively a very modern specimen of
Egyptian art, was added in the reign of Tiberius. “ On its
ceiling,” observes Mr. Sharpe, “is the well-known zodiac, which
our antiquaries once thought was of a great antiquity, but the
sign of the Scales in the zodiac might alone have taught them
that it could not be older than the reign of Augustus, who gave
that name to the group of stars which before formed the spread-
ing claws of the scorpion. We cannot but admire the zeal of
the Egyptians by whom this work was then ﬁnished. They
were treated as slaves by their Greek fellow-countrymen ; they,-
the fallen descendants of the conquering kings of Thebes, had
every third year their houses ransacked in search of arms : the
Romans only drained the province of its wealth, and the temple

 

 

