 

62 THE POINTED ARCH.

It is not easy at present to trace the origin and progress of
this original and exquisite style. Like the Christian Gothic,
which in some important particulars seems to resemble it, it
might itself have been founded on the style of the Lower
Empire; indeed its earliest specimens, such as the mosque of
Amer at Old Cairo, exhibit the round arch and detail without
any original character; bearing marks of the adaptation of an
older architecture to a different purpose. It seems certain that
the ﬁrst specimens of the pointed arch are met with in Eastern
buildings, and it is probable that the idea was transmitted to
Europe by the crusaders. Sir Gardner Wilkinson, in a recent
paper, expresses his belief that the ancient Egyptians were
acquainted with the pointed arch, not constructed, however, on
the true principle, but horizontally. We have heard the same
opinion expressed by Mr. Catherwood. The ﬁrst-mentioned
learned writer also considers that the Christians were the ﬁrst
in more modern times to adopt the pointed arch, and that the
Moslcms copied from them. Be this as it may, these early
and perhaps imitative attempts of Arabian architecture, gradu-
ally gave place to a style which may justly rank among the
most original ever invented. Its different stages may be traced
in Cairo, from the plain arches and grave simplicity of the
mosque of Tooloon, up to the surpassing elegance of the
tombs of the sultans and other monuments. There is one con-
sideration which invests them with peculiar interest, namely,
that the most beautiful of them are going rapidly to decay;
while a modern and corrupt imitation, entirely without merit,
is supplanting the genuine one, retaining merely its leading
arrangements, while all the peculiar distinguishing beauties
are replaced by the most vapid and tasteless mixture of styles.

In a remote part‘ of the town, formerly without the walls, is
the mosque of Tooloon, the most ancient in the city, (already
alluded to in the description of the view from the citadel, in
which it appears,) at present in a very dilapidated and neglected
state. It stands in an extensive open square, surrounded by

 

 

 

bun-n—--—-o--q— -‘--

