 

 

BEYADIEH. 127

choly of the scene and hour. As the sun sank, in the midst of the
rosy light with which all nature yet glowed and trembled, (‘ the
after-glow: as some have well called it,) the yellow orb of the
moon uprose from behind the eastern hills, and the mingled .
light of the two luminaries long blended in beauty indescrib-
able, till the red light paling more and more, gave place to
night, scarcely less bright, but softer and more spiritual than
day, and yet indescribably intoxicating. The stars came out,
not dimly, as in northern climates, but starting up at once
resplendently from behind the hills with almost supernatural
brilliancy, casting far down into the depths of the still river
reﬂections so wonderfully vivid, that the boat, as it noiselessly
cleft the waters, seemed to ﬂoat through liquid space studded
with all its orbs. At such times, the simPle beauty of the
scene alone would be sufﬁcient enjoyment, but you are never
here without in addition a haunting sense of the wonders that
line the banks of the river, remains of the past empire of that
great people to whom its waters were sacred.

We reached Beyadieh about eight, the wind then sunk, and
we moored the boat a little in advance of the village. I went
on shore to enjoy the beauty of the night, and was walking up
and down, when a few Copts, returning from a neighbouring
convent, attracted by my Frank costume, came up and claimed
Christian brotherhood, with many sincere demonstrations of
good-will. We sat down on the bank of the river and con-
versed. They were ﬁne-looking men, the chief of the adjoining
village, which was entirely held by Copts. From all that I
could gather, they complained less of the exactions of the
pasha, and seemed in more comfortable condition, than the
peasants elsewhere; their lands are also better and more skil-
fully cultivated, and thus the burden of oppression falls more
lightly on them. There is a considerable number of them in
this neighbourhood, and they possess several convents.

The following account is given of the foundation of Antino-
opolis. Upon his visit to Egypt, the emperor Hadrian was

 

 

