 

 

56 ’ SULEYMAN AGHA.

neighbouring shopkeeper. He answered remarkably well to
Falstaﬂ’s description of himself—“ a good portly man, i’ faith,
and a corpulent, of a cheerful look, a pleasing eye, and a most
noble carriage, and, as I think, his age_some ﬁfty, or by ’r Lady,
inclining to threescore.” But it was his costume which pecu—
liarly distinguished him from the surrounding throng. It was,
in fact, the old costume of the murdered Mamelukes, the heavy
turban, and voluminous inexpressibles, the cloth of which alone
would have furnished forth a suit for any ordinary European.
The materials were costly, and the entire eﬂ'ect strikingly
picturesque, and even gorgeous. His mien and garb bespoke
him no ordinary personage, and I gazed on him with curiosity
and interest, but it was not for some time afterwards that I
ascertained who he really was. His name I found was Suley-
man Agha, and he may well be called the “last of the Mame-
lukes,” at least of those who formerly held possession of Cairo.
His story is very curious. He was, it seems, a personal friend
of Mehemet Ali, at the time when the latter had secretly re-
solved upon the extermination of his Mamclukes, who, as he
knew, were planning to cut him off. The manner of their de-
struction is probably known to the reader. The ceremony of the
investiture of Toossoon Pasha with the command of an army
served as the pretext for drawing them within the walls of the
citadel, whence it was determined that they should never return
alive. The snare was laid, the agents of destruction ready.
The principal Mamelukes repaired for the last time in all their
splendour to the fortress, and paid their congratulations to the
pasha; then turned to take their leave. But the gates had
been closed, and from every corner of the building a ﬁre of
musketry was opened upon them; till man and horse lay heaped
in one promiscuous carnage. One indeed, and one only
escaped, by leaping his horse over the wall at a spot where he
had remarked a mound of rubbish; the horse was killed, but
his rider succeeded in making his way out of the city. Mean-
while such of the Mamelukes who remained below were put to

 

 

 

