 

 

 

 

 

ETHIOPIA AND MERGE. 217

for several miles. The second cataract is about 950 miles above
the Rosetta mouth of the Nile.

With the great rock temples of Abusimbal terminate the most
remarkable of the monuments on the Nile. But, before closing,
let us glance at those scattered at intervals upward towards the
yet unexplored sources of the river. To Nubia, with its narrow
rock-girt valley, succeeds Ethiopia, which once gave a dynasty
of kings to Egypt; its ancient capital of Napata was near
Djebel Barkal, where there are numerous pyramids. Passing
the Batronda desert, we reach the island of Meroé, an alluvial
tract enclosed between two branches of the river, where the
rich soil and important position led to the establishment of a
commercial community, who have left behind them a consider-
able number of pyramids and temples. For these, far inferior in
size and construction to those of Egypt, some had claimed an
antiquity still greater than that of the latter, arguing therefrom
the descent of civilization from EthiOpia and Meroé down—
wards towards the Thebaid and the Delta. It has been, how-
ever, recently ascertained by many, that the date of these struc-
tures is comparatively quite modern, and that they are but
copies from those of Egypt. Here we ﬁnally lose sight of all
monumental traces of the occupation or inﬂuence of the Pha-
raohs; though from the ﬁgures of captives on the sculptures we
have reason to believe, that their prowess was not unfelt by the
Arab and Negroid races, occupying the upper regions of the
valley of the Nile.

The sources of the great river seem to recede farther into the
heart of Africa as the enterprising explorer continues to advance
in quest of them—far beyond the point on the Blue Nile,
reached by Bruce. The White Nile has been recently explored
as far as to Lat. 4" North by Werne, who found the papyrus,
so long lost to Egypt, among the indigenous plants of the
country. Lofty summits capped with snow, in Lat. 4" South,
have been seen from a distance, by travellers from the eastern

coast,—the probable reservoirs of the diﬂ‘erent head-waters of
p O

 

 

 

