 

 

HISTORY or CAIRO. 47

force of outward events brings about their inevitable downfal.
Thus, though there may be a diminution of wealth, Cairo is,
in all substantial respects, what it was at the ﬁrst, and we seem
to be looking back into the ages of Arabian power and
splendour. What we now see of European life in this city,
is rather, in truth, an accidental excrescence imposed from
without, than any intrinsic alteration in the habits and manners
of the people themselves.

That Cairo is essentially an Arabian city, will appear from a
few brief notices abridged from Wilkinson, of its history, and con-
sequently that of Egypt itself, under the Saracens and their suc-
cessors. Egypt, as stated in the Historical Introduction, was
conquered from the Byzantine emperors by Amer, in 638, A. D.
After taking the Roman Babylon, he founded near it a city and
mosque, of which the arches are round, at Fostat or Old Cairo,
on the banks of the Nile. Under the sway of the Ommiade
and Abasside caliphs, the history of the province of Egypt pre-
sents no facts of striking interest. In 868, Tooloon, governor of
Egypt under the caliph, having thrown off his allegiance, and
made himself master of the country, built eastward of Fostat a
palace and mosque, which may be called the original nucleus of
Cairo, and, with the surrounding quarter, is now enclosed
within its walls. This mosque is distinguished as being among
the earliest specimens of the pointed arch, and as presenting the
characteristics of early Arabian architecture. Tooloon’s dynasty
was but of short duration. El Moez, leader of the Fatimites,
who had established a dynasty on the coast of Africa, despatched
his general, Goher, to invade Egypt, upon succeeding in which
attempt he founded, in 923, the present city of Cairo, still fur-
ther eastward of the mosque and quarter of Tooloon. Here-
upon Moez established his residence at the new capital, which
be delighted to beautify, and to him is due the original founda-
tion of the venerable college of E1 Azhar. Passing over a long
list of Egyptian Fatimite governors and their intrigues, we
come at length to the era of the crusades and of Saladin, the

 

 

