 

 

NUBIAN cnauac'rsmsncs. 213

look down directly into its rapid waters, as they hurry away
on their impetuous course towards the cataracts.

We moored this evening at a small Nubian village opposite
the island, among several other boats come down from Dongola.
The shore was lively with curious groups, and as night ad-
vanced the tranquil basin and the faintly seen temples and
rocks which surrounded it, were over-canopied by a sky of
tropical brilliancy glittering with countless stars. It was the
closing scene of our voyage up the Nile, and will be the last to
fade from memory.

It was my intention to have conﬁned my descriptions entirely
to the limits of my own journey, which was originally to have ex-
tended to the second cataract. This was however prevented by
illness, and thus, rather than omit to notice the great temple of
Abusimbal, one of the most remarkable monuments of Egypt,
I have availed myself of the kind permission of Mr. Catherwood
to engrave a sketch of it, drawn by him upon the spot, which I
shall illustrate by a few brief particulars taken from other writers.
Philm has ever been considered as the boundary of Egypt and
Nubia, and the characteristics of the Nile valley above the
sacred island are totally different from those below. Lofty
granite mountains hem in the river on both sides, leaving but a
narrow strip of cultivable soil, the sole resource of the in-
dustrious inhabitants, who sedulously protect it by embank-
ments, and heighten its fertility by the most careful irrigation,
and thus the palm groves which line the shore, and relieve the
sternness of the scenery, are noted for the superior quality of
their fruit. Yet their comparative poverty compels many of
the Nubians to seek employment in Lower Egypt. Like all
mountaineers, they have a singular regard for their native
fastnesses, and until lately have ever been jealous of the visits
of travellers, whose early visits were not made without con-
siderable personal risk. To Burckhardt, the enterprising dis-
coverer of Petra, we are indebted also for the ﬁrst notices of

 

 

 

