 

 

142 INTERIOR or THE TEMPLE.

had perhaps never been heard of by the emperor, who could
have been little aware that the most lasting monument of his
reign was being raised in the distant province of Egypt. We
cannot but admire a people, who, denying themselves all beyond
the coarsest food and clothing as luxuries, thought a noble
massive temple for the worship of the gods one of the ﬁrst
necessaries of life.”

Brieﬂy to describe the interior arrangements of the temple,
we quote from Wilkinson.

To the great portico succeeds a hall of six columns with three
rooms on either side: then a central chamber, communicating
on one side with two small rooms, and on the other with a
staircase. This is followed by another similar chamber, (with
two rooms on the west and one on the east side,) immediately
before the isolated sanctuary, which has a passage leading
round it, and communicating with three rooms on either side.
The total length of the temple is 93 paces, (or about 220 feet,)
by 41, or across the portico 50.

Advancing through the gloom of the succeeding hall, we
prepared to explore these smaller chambers and passages. Op-
pressed by a close foul odour, and not without apprehension of
treading on snakes and scorpions concealed in the loose dust,
we lighted our candles and began cautiously to descend; the
bats, startled by the glare, roused from their obscure crannies,
and madly ﬂitting to and fro, with their slight curdling cry and
the whining of their ﬁlthy wings, threatened to extinguish our
lights, and dash their obscene bodies full into our averted
faces,—an idea which even now inspires a shudder of disgust.
Such was our welcome into these narrow dusky passages, once
thronged with the votaries of a voluptuous and debasing
superstition. Screening as well as might be our eyes from
these attacks, we traced out with our candles the elaborate
sculptures with which the walls are every where profusely
covered throughout these numerous smaller rooms, all minister-
ing to the impression designed to be produced upon the spectator.

 

 

