 

 

154 SHISHANK.—BOCCHORIS.

knew anything of the places which he writes about. Hesiod
also, when speaking of Memnon, king of Ethiopia, by whom he
meant either Amunothph III. of the musical statue, or Miamun
Rameses 11., calls him the son of the goddess Aurora. Every-
thing in Egypt was seen by the Greeks enlarged through
the mists of distance, and coloured by the poetic fancy of
ignorance.

As Thebes declined, Lower Egypt had been gradually in-
creasing in power, and the ﬁrst of its monarchs who sat on the
throne of Rameses was Shishank of Bubastis, the Shishak of
the Bible, and the contemporary of Solomon, against whose son
Rehoboam he marched with a large army, and brought to
Thebes the golden shields with which Solomon had adorned
the temple at Jerusalem. This exploit, as we shall see, is
carved on the walls of Karnak. After various intestine con-
vulsions, the Ethiopians, formerly tributaries of Thebes, now
became its conquerors. This people had, indeed, been ruled
by Capts, and their language and religion was the same as those
of Thebes. Bocchoris the Wise, of Sais, long remembered for his
mild and merciful laws, was put to death, and by Sabacothph,
the Ethiopian, who reigned eight years in Egypt. Assyria was
now become a powerful monarchy, and pressed Samaria and
J udma, who looked in vain for succour to Egypt. Tirhakah,
the third of the Ethiopian kings, reigned in Egypt while Heze-
kiah reigned in Judaea, Sennacherib in Assyria, and Mardoch
Empadus in Babylon; and here, with the recorded Babylonian
eclipses, begins a ﬁxed point in chronology, from which the
dates of preceding events must be calculated.

Under the last of the Ethiopian kings, who was succeeded by
Egyptians, the seat of government was transferred to Sais in the
Delta. Egypt was now no longer the same, the valour of the
Coptic warriors was sunk, and Greek mercenaries were employ-
ed by Necho Hophra and the other monarchs of Lower Egypt.
Henceforth, Thebes entirely lost its political importance, but it
still retained all the original grandeur of its colossal monuments.

 

 

