 

 

66 THE EL aznan.

narrow passages leading into the interior of the building, peep-
ing through which, (for all entrance is, under ordinary circum-
stances, interdicted to Frank travellers,) a view is obtained into
the pillared avenues within, where in cool shadow are seen,
lounging or ﬂitting about, such a collection of Mussulmen from
all parts of the East, in their varied costume, as strongly,
although hopelessly, tempted my curiosity. I longed to mingle
with so strange a congregation of gownsmen. This is considered
the principal college of the East, and to receive the instructions
of its professors in Arabian literature, students repair from all
quarters, who are gratuitously supported. The funds of this
establishment having been, like all the property belonging to the
mosques, seized by the pasha, are so much reduced that the
professors have no longer any salary, and thus a heavy blow
and great discouragement to the inﬂuence of the old Mussul-
man system of education, necessarily fettered by the dogmas of
the Koran, has been dealt, the effect of which will probably be
heightened by the introduction of European languages and
ideas into the pasha’s own schools. Indeed, the pious old
Mussulman justly regards these as the ‘last days ’ of Islam. To
this college is attached an establishment for blind men, mostly
students, who are described as peculiarly fanatical. Before
the reduction of the revenues of this establishment, its charities
were very great, and its walls afforded shelter to a vast multi-
tude of poor. Mahommedan institutions are on the wane;
priests and professors, pillaged of their revenues, are sunk into
sordid indigence, and zeal alarmingly on the decrease.

The scene within the enclosure of this singular maze of
buildings must be very striking. In going the round of the
interior, says one who was privileged to explore it, “ we found
ourselves in the company of the people of Mecca or Medina,
then in the midst of Syrians, in another minute among Muslims
of Central Africa, next amidst Moggrebyns or natives of North-
ern Africa west of Egypt, then with European and Asiatic
Turks, and quitting these we were introduced to Persians and

 

 

 

