 

 

vrsrrons AT KENEH. 145

somest way, offered to get them bastinadoed for us on our
simple parole, and without the slightest inquiry, but this oblig-
ing proposal we thought ﬁt to renounce. He then earnestly
pressed us to sup with him, when we should be entertained
with certain of the more peculiar and recherché exhibitions of
the dancing-girls. This delicate compliment to our taste and
morals we also declined, intending to depart at sun-set. It was
little we could offer him for all these favours. Some bottles of
porter were produced, which, however, he preferred to take
away with him rather than consume upon the spot, and our
notions of his magniﬁcent liberality received a sad shock, when
Salem whispered me next morning that he had sold them to
the Italian doctors. Scarcely had he departed, before there
came bowing in a brisk little Frenchman, about sixty, dry as
a mummy, and as brown withal, dressed in a faded military
suit of crimson and gold lace. He was, we found, an old
colonel of Napoleon’s, and had obtained from the pasha a
grant of land, where he had established a little ‘ imperium in
imperio’ of his own. He ran on with all the lively politeness
of his nation, told us that he had been long engaged in seeking
coal for Mehemet Ali, and that he had no doubt that he had,-at
last, made the inestimable discovery, the search after which, by
the way, has cost already half of the revenue of a province.’

’ The following statement is making the round of the newspapers, and if
true is of vast importance to Egypt. We may soon hope to have steamers
on the Upper Nile. The writer was acquainted with the French engineer
alluded to, whom he met both on the Nile and on his return to Europe,
when he spoke very conﬁdently of his researches in this neighbourhood.
“ The Journal du Mats announces in a letter from Grand Cairo, the dis-
covery, by a French civil engineer, of a stratum of coal in the vicinity of the
Nile, towards Upper Egypt. Two engineers, an Englishman and a French-
man, were employed to investigate the lands in the vicinity of the Nile for
the discovery of coal about three years ago; but these superﬁcial inquirers
reported that there was none, and that, moreover, none would be found! The
French engineer ﬁrst mentioned, more diligent and more skilful than his
predecessors, has completely overthrown this bold assertion. The samples
have been referred to a commission, and the excavations will be continued
on a large scale."

 

 

 

