 

 

58 THE DONKEY-BOY.

camel. The Caireen donkey-boy is quite a character, and mine
in particular was a perfect original. He was small and spare
of frame, his rich brown face relieved by the whitest of teeth
and the most brilliant black eyes; and his face beamed with a
merry yet roguish expression, like that of the Spanish or
rather Moorish boy in Murillo’s well-known master-piece, with
whom he was probably of cognate blood. Living in the streets
from infancy, and familiar with all the chances of out-door life,
and with every description of character ; waiting at the door of
a mosque or a café, or crouching in a corner of the bazaar, he
had acquired a thorough acquaintance with Caireen life; and
his intellect, and I fear his vices, had become somewhat pre-
maturely developed. But the ﬁnishing touch to his education
was undoubtedly given by the European travellers whom he
had served, and of whom he had, with the imitativeness of his
age, picked up a variety of little accomplishments, particularly
the oaths of different languages. His audacity had thus become
consummate, and I have heard him send his fellows to
as coolly and in as good English as any prototype of our own
metropolis. His Mussulman prejudices sat very loosely upon
him, and in the midst of religious Observances he grew up
indifferent and prayerless. With this inevitable laxity of faith
and morals, contracted by his early vagabondage, he at least
acquired an emancipation from prejudice, and displayed a
craving after miscellaneous information, to which his Eu-
ropean masters were often tasked to contribute. Thrown almost
in childhood upon their own resources, the energy and persever-
ance of these boys is remarkable. My little lad had, for instance,
been up the country with some English travellers, in whose.
service he had saved four or ﬁve hundred piastres, (£4 or £5,)
with which he bought the animal which I bestrode, on whose
sprightliness and good qualities he was never tired of expatiating,
and with the proceeds of whose labour he supported his mother
and himself. He had but one habitual subject of discontent, the
heavy tax imposed upon his donkey by Mehemet Ali, upon

 

 

 

