 

 

THE COFFEE-SHOP. 55

lands, have moved in unsuspected obscurity the vital springs
of the social and political machine. To ply his money-getting
functions for the day he has issued from his quarter, the most‘
horrible in Cairo, the narrowest, foulest, and most conﬁned,
and bearing in its ponderous and strong barred gates, evidence
of the painful insecurity of its detested yet envied inhabitants.
He is engaged in transactions with a Turk, in which he will
probably come off somewhat the gainer.‘ The coﬂ'ee-shop
where he has planted himself is a fair sample of the very
numerous ones which are found in every corner of the capital.
They are small and without decoration, but the coffee, as pre-
pared at the best of them, has, to the genuine amateur, an
aroma not excelled, if equalled, in the ﬁrst of Parisian ‘cafés.
Coffee and pipes are at once the universal stimuli as well as
sedatives of the Orientals. Nothing can be got through without
their inﬂuence. Besides what is consumed at the “café, the
negro servants may be seen all day long carrying to and fro
small cups to the shopkeepers ofthe bazaars. ‘ A raised seat
serves for the coffee customers ; here they sit and smoke, and
here is often seen assembled a group listening to the tale of a
musician, who chants to them some ancient fragment of Arabian
romance. The style of smoking is generally with the long
straight cherry-stick pipe, which is very elegantly adorned
with silk and tassels; but some, like the ﬁgure in the sketch,
prefer the more recherché Narghileh, consisting of a long
ﬂexible tube, inserted in a glass vase of water, somewhat soften-
ing the narcotic inhalation. , The back-ground displays one
of the gates enclosing a particular part of the bazaar, through
which and across the main avenue is a perspective into one of
the aforesaid Wekalehs or Khans, with its interior courts,
and a ﬂitting phantasmagoria of caftaned and turbaned mer-
chants.

It was while standing to draw this coffee-shop, that I was
struck by the appearance of a stranger, who alighted from his
horse for a few moments on some matter of business with a

 

 

