 

 

26 HISTORICAL SKETCH or ALEXANDRIA.

combs, to the west of the city, would alone testify to its former
extent, though only one of the monuments merits particular
notice, an elegant excavation with a Greek facade of great
purity of style.

In the panorama the site of Cmsar’s camp is also indicated,
the scene of the engagement where fell the gallant Aber-
crombie ; and a few miles farther, in the same direction, is the
memorable bay of Aboukir. An Englishman is in little danger
of forgetting that, in addition to the common stock of historical
associations connected with Alexandria, he has many peculiar
to himself. If Shakspeare, by his magical creations, could
make of Venice “ a fairy city of the heart ;” the same potent
enchanter has cast his spells over the desolate shore of the
Bruchion—the scene of the luxury and despair of the Egyptian
queen and her Roman lover. And the valour of England, no
less than her genius, has hallowed the surrounding land and
sea with a host of imperishable recollections.

The ancient and modern history of Alexandria alone would
ﬁll a volume, and one, too, of the most stirring interest. But
this is altogether beyond our province, and we can but allude to
its principal vicissitudes. Its rapid growth and the splendour
it ultimately attained fully justiﬁed the anticipations of the Mace-
donian conqueror. Gradually Withdrawing from other chan-
nels, the commerce of Arabia and India with the West ﬂowed
through Egypt, by way of the ports of the Red Sea, the Nile,
and the ancient canal leading to this unrivalled emporium, and
continued thus, both under the Ptolemies and the Romans, until
the discovery of the passage to India by the Cape of Good
Hope. Science also, fostered by the muniﬁcence of the Ptole-
mies, retired from her ancient seat at Heliopolis to this city.
“ The sages of the Museum, who lodged in that part of the palace
of the Lagides, might there be said to live as the priests of the
muses, taking the word in a wide sense, as the patronesses of
knowledge. They had gardens, and alleys, and galleries,
where they walked and conversed ; a common hall, where they

 

 

