 

 

98 SPECULATIONS ON THEIR carom.

most ledge, cutting the desert horizon with her lithe and
graceful form.

‘ How many illustrious travellers in all ages have sat and
gazed upon the scene around! and how endless are the specula-
tions in which they have indulged! “ The epochs, the build-
ers, and the objects of the pyramids,” says Gliddon, “ had, for
two thousand years, been dreams, fallacies, or mysteries.” To
begin at the beginning, some have supposed them to be ante-
diluvian; others, that they were built by the children of Noah
to escape from a second ﬂood,—by Nimrod, by the Pali of Hin-
dostan, and even the ancient Irish. It was a favourite theory
until very lately, that they were the work of the captive Israel-
ites. The Arabians attributed them to the J ins or Genii;
others, to a race of Titans. Some have supposed them to have
been the granaries built by Joseph; others, intended for his
tomb, or those of the Pharaoh drowned in the Red Sea, or of
the bull Apis. Yeates thinks they soon followed the Tower of
Babel, and both had the same common design; while, according
to others, they were built with the spoils of Solomon’s temple
and the riches of the queen of Sheba. They have been regarded
as temples of Venus, as reservoirs for purifying the waters of
the Nile, as erected for astronomical or mathematical purposes,
or intended to protect the valley of the Nile from the encroach-
ments of the sands of the desert (this notable theory, too, is
quite recent); in short, for every conceivable and inconceiv-
able purpose that could be imagined by superstitious awe, by
erudition groping without data in the dark, or reasoning upon
the scanty and suspicious evidence of Grecian writers. At
length, after a silence of thousands of years, the discoveries of
Champollion have enabled the monuments to tell their own tale;
—their mystery has been, in great measure, unravelled, and the
names of their founders ascertained. The explorations of Col.
VYSB; Perring, and recently of Lepsius, have brought to light the
remains of no less than sixty-nine pyramids, extending in a line
from Abouroash to Dashoor. These, by the discovery of the

 

 

