 

 

GIRGEH. 131

the lead of us; sometimes, indeed, we ran alongside her, and I
got a peep into the cabins where these pious gentlemen had
hidden away their Turkish beauties—for one at least was lovely.
The ﬁnest sailing was under the noble crags of Gebel Sheik
Heredee; it became necessary to take in the main-sail, and
yet we tore through the water at a delightful rate. In the
afternoon, we ran along a ﬂat shore, and were assailed by
loud cries for bread from the naked and half-naked children,
(a scene painfully reminding me of Ireland,) who ran alongside
our boat leaping gullies and wading canals, with all the eager-
ness of famine: one ﬁne young girl threw herself naked into the
river, and gaining the boat, held on as we sailed, (for she would
not come on deck,) a feat that obtained an unusual beckshish.
Salem got on the top of the cabin, and we threw away among
them, in the wildness of the scramble, every loaf we had on
board, and I was fain to put up with a stale fragment till we
reached Girgeh late in the evening, after the ﬁnest day’s sail-
ing we had during our entire cruise.

We found several boats moored at the landing-place without
the town; from the next to our own proceeded loud chatter-
ing, and the light caught upon the naked dusky skins and
woolly heads of a number of negroes. I went ashore and found
this to be a Djerm descending the river laden with female
slaves for the Cairo market, the major part negro girls of
little value, with some few more delicate specimens, however,
of Abyssinian beauty, much esteemed, as Mr. Lane informs us,
by the voluptuaries of the capital.

I went on shore very early the next morning; it was a dead
calm on the river. The principal J ellab, or slave-dealer, was
seated on the shore, apparently waiting the chance of a pur-
chaser. A number of the negro girls were lounging about
upon the sunny shore, revelling in the grateful heat; while
others sat upon the boat. They were ﬁne, well-made creatures,
glossy as satin, and in excellent condition; for the most part
lively, careless chatterers, and rather bearing out the accounts

 

 

