 

 

 

 

INVASION or CAMBYSES. 155

The reigns of these kings of Lower Egypt was soon brought
to a close by the invasion of Cambyses. After his conquest
of Memphis he advanced to the conquest of Ethiopia, but
more like a madman than a general. On reaching Thebes he
detached a body of 50,000 men to reduce ﬁrst the great oasis,
and next the oasis of Ammon. The ﬁrst they reached, but no
tidings were ever afterwards heard of them, they perished
amidst the sands of the Libyan desert. The Persian monarch
had been compelled to turn back from his progress towards
Ethiopia by famine, and on his reaching Thebes, he wreaked
his disappointment upon the devoted city. He overthrew the
massive walls of the temples, set ﬁre to what would burn,
hurled prostrate the statues of the great Coptic kings, broke
open and plundered their tombs, and carried off an enormous
booty.

This was the ﬁrst great blow received by Thebes, but she
gradually arose to much of her original splendour, though her
political importance was gone. The conquest of Egypt by the
Ptolemies entirely withdrew the commerce which formerly cen-
tred in the Thebaid, by means of the routes across the desert
to the Nile, to the more favoured emporium of Alexandria.

Loose and high-coloured accounts of the wealth of Thebes
had reached Greece even before the time of Homer; and again
through Herodotus and other travellers in the Delta; but
nothing was certainly known of it till it was visited by Hecatmus
of Abdera. Hecatwus had been an ofﬁcer in the army of
Alexander, and he afterwards joined himself to Ptolemy; but
he is best known as an author. Among other works, he wrote
a history of the Hyperborean or northern nations, and also a
history, or rather a description, of Egypt, part of which we now
read in the pages of Diodorus Siculus. He was perhaps the
only mortal who, travelling to the most remote points both of
the north and of the south, ever saw and compared the temple
of the Sun in Thebes with the druidical temple of the same god
at Stonehenge in Britain, before ruin had overthrown those

 

 

 

 

— "ﬁ" 3

 

