 

104 rAssacns T0 Kme’s CHAMBER.

the king’s body was deposited does exist in any of these rooms,
it should be looked for beneath this niche.” He remarks,
besides, that this chamber stands under the apex of the pyra-
mid. At the base of the great gallery, to which we now return,
is the mouth of what is called the well, a narrow funnel-shaped
passage, leading down to the chamber at the base of the edi-
ﬁce, hollowed in the rock, and if the theory of Dr. Lepsius is
correct, originally containing the body of the founder. The
long ascending slope of the great gallery, six feet wide, is
formed by successive courses of masonry overlying each other,
and thus narrowing the passage towards the top.

Advancing 158 feet up this impressive avenue, we come to a
horizontal passage, where four granite portcullises, descending
through grooves, once opposed additional obstacles to the rash
curiosity or avarice which might tempt any to invade the
eternal silence of the sepulchral chamber, which they besides
concealed; but the cunning of the spoiler has been there of old,
the device was vain, and you are now enabled to enter this, the
principal apartment in the pyramid, and called the King’s
Chamber, entirely constructed of red granite, as is also the
sarcophagus, the lid and contents of which had been removed.
This is entirely plain, and without hieroglyphics,—the more
singular, as it seems to be ascertained that they were then in
use. The sarcophagus rests upon an enormous granite block,
which may, as suggested by Mrs. Poole, in her minute account
of the interior, have been placed to mark the entrance to a
deep vault or pit beneath. There are some small holes in the
walls of the chamber, the purpose of which was for ventilation,
as at length discovered by Colonel Howard Vyse.

Above the King’s Chamber, and only to be reached by a
narrow passage, ascending at the south-east corner of the great
gallery, having notches in which pieces of wood were formerly
inserted, and from the top of that, along another passage, is the
small chamber discovered by Mr. Davison; its height is only
three feet six inches; above it are four other similar niches,

 

 

 

