 

 

PITS AND TOMBS or GORNOU. 183

sentation of the god Nilus, bending the stalks of two water-
plants, indicative of the upper and lower country, above a
tablet containing the two cartouches of Amunothph III.,* and
supposed to indicate his sovereignty over the upper and lower
country. There is also a line of hieroglyphics down the back
of the statue.

Such are the principal objects (for they are not all) on the
western bank of the Nile, of which an idea can be conveyed to
the reader by the aid of the pencil. As I have said before,
these isolated monuments are far from giving an adequate im-
pression of Thebes. They stand on the edge of a vast funereal
ﬁeld, extending from the cultivated alluvium to the sandstone
mountain which bounds the plain intersected by obscure and
dangerous paths among yawning mummy - pits and graves.
Ranges of tombs hewn in the mountain above, some greater in
extent even than those of the kings, penetrate far into the
bowels of the mountain; chamber after chamber, and passage
after passage, whose walls, as the light is applied to them,
kindle into vivid epitome of the life of the old Egyptian world,
-—its religious solemnities, its familiar usages, its progress from
the cradle to the grave, its scenes of daily domestic life, of high
festivity and solemn funeral, with the passage of the dead into
the realms of futurity, the judgment, and the mysterious trans-
migration of the soul. Who could suspect that all this is re-
vealed to us in these wonderful sepulchres, which externally
appear but holes in the sandy rock? and how strange and sad
is it to‘ come forth to the light of day after this long and ab-
sorbing converse in these dusky recesses with the past life of
this great people, and behold the wrecks of their proud city
wide spread over the empty desolate plain!

The pits also in which are deposited the mummied remains of
_ the ancient inhabitants are among the most singular spectacles.
Some of the bodies are merely dried, but those of the more
wealthy classes, enveloped in a shroud of ﬁne linen, with aro-

' Wilkinson.

 

 

 

