 

 

A_NTIQUITY or EGYPT. 3'7

tall columns of dust and sand, sometimes six or seven hundred
feet in height, whirling sublimely across the desert, rapidly
crossing the alluvial valley, and nearing the river, till the whole
cloud, sweeping off the bank, involves the rufﬂed surface of
the stream in temporary obscurity, and half buries the boat on
the leeward side. Without the, utmost attention, indeed, there
is great danger of suddenly capsizing, as indeed often happens,
when the boatmen are too negligent to keep the rope, by which
the huge sails are attached to the side, loose in their hand,
so as to let it ﬂy if the gust is dangerously violent.

With the afternoon the breeze set in, and we sailed merrily
along, passing one or two downward-bound boats, crammed
almost to suffocation with a noisy motley crowd, in bright
coloured costumes, proceeding to the neighbouring festival
at Tanta, in commemoration of the birth of the Seyd Ahmad
El-Bedawee, a celebrated Moslem saint; a scene of licence
greatly resembling the ancient Egyptian Saturnalia; for the
extremes of fanaticism and sensual indulgence are wont to be
combined in both ancient and modern instances. Soon after
arriving in Cairo, I heard of the loss of one of these very boats
in a squall, having, as the rumour went, some two or three hun-
dred persons on board, of whom the greater part went down.
But such occurrences, though by no means unfrequent, occa-
sion small concern in a land where the penny a line trade in
‘ moving accidents ’ has no existence, and where coroner’s
inquests are unknown.

One soon seems to breathe the air of profound antiquity on
the banks of the Nile. We were now sailing near the sites of
Naucratis and Sais, important settlements of Greek traders,
who, from the earliest ages, carried on the chief part of the
Egyptian trade in the Mediterranean. For the Egyptians,
says Mr. Sharpe, “like the Hindoos, looked upon the sea and
voyages by sea with religious dread, and they held seafaring
persons in diser as impious.” These Greeks lived under their
own laws and customs, and obtained many privileges of the

 

 

 

“WW-.- -—- -

