 

ANCIENT ALEXANDRIA.~ 25

even this space is barely dotted here and there with modern
villas, mosques, and eonvents, enclosed in extensive gardens
of date-palms, thinly scattered among the immense mounds
which cover in the ruins of this once so magniﬁcent city.

Of its numerous public and priVate monuments, the only
standing are the so called ‘ needles of Cleopatra,’ and- ‘ Pompey’s
pillar.’ One of the former obelisks, more ancient than the
foundation of the city, still remains, erect among its ruinous
heaps. It is supposed to have been brought from Heliorpolis,
the seat of all the wisdom of the Egyptians, until this became
transferred to Alenandria; it bears the name of Thotmes III,
and its lateral hierbglyphics that of the great Rameses. Pom-
pey’s pillar, as it is cowonly called, stands on- the lonely
mounds overlooking the lake Mareotis and the modern city.
It is a noble column; the shaﬁ, a single block of red granite,
about Seventy feet high; the total height being ninety-ﬁve feet ;
its substructions were once under the level of the ground, and-
ﬁarme’d part of a paved area. Mr. Sharpe, indeed, supposes this
to have Men the site of the Serapion, and from the Arab histori-'
ans cited by Mr. Lane,-it appears that in the days of Amer, the
Arab conqueror of Egypt, it belonged to a magniﬁcent building,
containing the library which was burnt by order of the caliph
Omar. No less: than four hundred columns are described as
having surrounded it, which were throwrn into the sea. An in-
scription on the column shows it to have been erected, some
contend only dedicated anew, by Publius, prefect of Egypt to
the emperor Diocletian. The monks of the Coptic convent,
seen in the view, claim still to possess the relics of St. Mark,
who suﬂ'ered; martyrdom! at Alexandria, and whose remains
were said to have been transported to Venice.

Beyond these isolated monuments there is little else which
might seem even to point out the site of other famous struc‘
tures ; though there can be no doubt that, if the city increases,
as excavation prevails, further discoveries will _ be made, some
obje'cts of great value having been already dug up. The cata-

c.

 

 

