 

 

AN OLD FRIEND FOUND. 21

the discomﬁture complete. There was a general scatter of the
assboys all over the square, the Anglo-Indians were free, and
their great deliverer, with a grave bow to them, which might
have beﬁtted the knight of La Mancha himself, turned round
to re-enter his abode. In doing so his features were revealed,
I instantly recognised him, and seizing a slipper, directed it
with unerring precision upon the top of his hat, at the same
time shouting his name at the highest pitch of my lungs. He
looked upwards to my whereabout with a countenance inﬂamed
with wrath, which gave place to a grim smile as he recognised
the features of an old acquaintance. I bawled forth my predica-
ment, whereupon, hurrying into the hotel, he ran upstairs and
released me from my durance. In what strange ‘ways does a
traveller frequently fall in with those with whom he was long
since intimate! Here was a friend I had sailed with some years
before in the Archipelago, and in whose society I had per-
formed quarantine in the old Lazaret of Syra, a barrack swarm-
ing with rats, and almost pestilential with ﬁlth. Many an ad-
venture we had together, and many a good story he told me,
though this is not the place to dwell upon either. Snﬁice it to
say, that after being battered about from place to place in the
Levant, he had at length contrived to ﬁnd a quiet haven in
the city of Alexandria.

From the balconies of these hotels, the view over the great
square is amusing, still presenting the same mixed and semi-
oriental character. The elegant equipages of the consuls, and
the plain attire of the well-mounted Frank gentlemen, and their
numerous compatriots of lower degree on donkeys or on foot,
contrast boldly with the costume of the natives. The ‘ Fellahs,’
or Egyptian Arabs, (who are supposed by some to be, rather
than the Copts, the real descendants of the ancient Egyptians,
of course with some modiﬁcation,) although they fulﬁl the
oﬁces of labourers, porters, water-carriers, ‘ sais’ or grooms, and
donkey drivers, interest the spectator at once as a ﬁne race;
and there is something very graceful and antique in the ap-

 

 

_..._.-_..._r__.__. a“-._——-—

