 

 

 

 

nan F. NUSR AND BAB E FOOTOOR. 69

there, and not at the moment invisible.” The turrets over this
gate also serve the same purpose to which the similar portion
of our own were formerly devoted, that of exhibiting the gory
heads of criminals; those of the slaughtered Mamelukes having
been the last afﬁxed upon it.

In a totally different style, not in the least resembling the
IVestern Gothic, are the Bab e Nusr and Bab e Footoor, near
to each other, on the eastern side of the city. The former is.
remarkable for its chasteness of decoration and design; it
consists of two square towers and a round-headed gate. The
latter is not perhaps equal to it in this respect, but is more
strikingly grand. The two bold, advanced, half-circular
towers, in front of the broad portal, with its singular border of
elaborate ornament, combines massive and imposing grandeur
with richness and elegance ; the masonry too is particularly ﬁne.

It is through the Bab e Nusr that the great caravan leaves
the city on its departure for Mecca. This departure of the
pilgrims is the principal spectacle of the metropolis, and
still forms a scene of rude fantastic splendour, but far in-
ferior to what it once was, when the Memlooks themselves in
their splendid costume, so ill replaced by the more modern but
convenient dress, accompanied it forth with barbaric pomp and
high solemnity. In the course of my subsequent wanderings, I
was fortunate enough to meet with it on its march in the midst
of the desert, where it is of course a far more impressive
spectacle.

Among the four hundred mosques in the city, many of
which are in a state of decay, other beautiful specimens may be
met with, but perhaps the utmost perfection and variety of this
style of architecture seems to have been reached in the tombs,
which are scattered without the walls on the south and east.
Emerging from the crowded city by the Bab e Nusr, or Gate
of Victory, the desert stretches from the very walls into the
trembling haze of distance, and its dead and silent expanse
receives an additional mournfulness of aspect from the ceme-

 

 

