 

 

 

RELIGION or THE EGYPTIANB. 193

tends to deepen it, to convince him that he is gazing upon the
works of a great and thoughtful people, whose “ wisdom” was
proverbial in the most ancient times. Like the old pilgrims of
Greece, who came to Egypt to study its science and religion,
and who departed full of admiration and wonder 5 the travel-
ler carries away from the sight of its ruins something of the
same awe-struck and reverential spirit, and what was at ﬁrst
regarded as a mere spectacle gradually becomes with him a
serious study.

In regard to the religion of ancient Egypt—-the learned
priests had, about the Christian era, arrived at the conception of
the unity of God, but believing this idea to be too abstruse for
the mass, they symbolized the different attributes of Divinity in
the form of diﬁ'erent gods, which, though to themselves merely
emblems, were the objects of the superstitious veneration of the
common people. Their more profound doctrine was only dis-
closed to those initiated into the mysteries. Many, however,
are inclined to doubt whether the early religion of the Egyp-
tians was originally anything more than a gross Polytheism, or
Manichaaism; that it was not till a late period that they acquired
the sublime idea of the Divine unity, and that they then re-
duced to mere symbols what before were so many independent
objects of worship. Such as it was, religion was interwoven
with everything in Egypt. The ﬁrst government of Thebes
was priestly, and when it became a monarchy, the king was
always invested with a sacerdotal character. We see him
every where upon the temples represented as offering sacriﬁces
to the gods, and receiving from them the investiture with “life
and power.” A spirit of devotion was kept alive in the people
by a constant round of religious ceremonies, a reference of every
thing to the gods. A severe morality was inculcated, after
death the actions of the departed were weighed before Osiris,
and the souls of the wicked condemned to inhabit the bodies of
obscene and unclean animals, till after their allotted period of
puriﬁcation was fulﬁlled. Every contrivance of the priests

O

 

 

