 

 

nmmcsrron or THE NILE. 41

tained.’ When the river has attained its maximum, very
singular is the appearance of the whole country. On the
high-raised bank you stand, as it were, between two seas, be-
holding on one side the swollen turbid ﬂood, hurrying down
rapidly in its irresistible might, and on the other, the inundated
expanse, extending to the desert boundary of the valley; the
isolated villages in their groves are scattered about like ﬂoat-
ing islands, the palm-trees half-buried, and, except in a few
places, the Gise, or dyke, affords the sole circuitous communi-
cation from one place to another. As it begins to fall, the
sower, wading into the mud, literally “ casts his bread upon
the waters ” which cover the recent and still liquid deposit;
when the water drains of from particular places, a carpet of the
most vivid green immediately follows in its train, and the
face of the land glows with a new-created beauty. The level
of the alluvial land, as well as the bed of the river, are gradu-
ally raised, so that the constant aggression of the sandy
desert on the fertile valley, from which some have anticipated
the ultimate destruction of the latter, is, though triumphant at
some points, continually counteracted in the main, by the
eternally-vivifying inﬂuence of the waters. The river to whose
beneﬂcent agency the ancient Egyptians owed their greatness,
was, with their characteristic reverence of spirit, regarded by
them as peculiarly sacred. “ The god Nilus,” says Wilkinson,
“ is frequently represented with water-plants growing from his
head, and binding up stalks or ﬂowers indicative of the inunda-
tion. Sometimes he bears fruits and ﬂowers, emblematic of its
fertilizing inﬂuence. In all the cities on the banks of the river
certain priests were exclusively appointed to the service of this
deity; and if a corpse were found upon the sacred shore, the
nearest town was obliged to embalm and bury it with every
mark of honour.” The water of the Nile, turbid and muddy,
seems little at ﬁrst to merit the praises lavished on it; its ap-
pearance is disgusting, and its taste at ﬁrst insipid, the temper-
' Mrs. Poole.
D .

 

 

