 

 

 

24 ANCIENT ALEXANDRIA.

by this causeway, the eastern, now called the old harbour,
was originally the most important, and around it, on the land
which, as appears in the sketch, is now nearly clear of build-
ings, stood formerly the quarter called Bruchion, contain-
ing the palace, the museum, with the library, theatre, 85c. ., all
remains of which have utterly perished. The site of the
Cesarium, or temple of Cesar, is marked by the two obelisks,
one of which is now prostrate, called Cleopatra’s needles ; and
beyond the projecting rock, mid-way between these monuments
and Lochias point, stood, at the end of a mole, the Timonium,
so called because built by Antony, for his desponding retire-
ment after the battle of Actium. This, it is hardly necessary
to say, was the principal quarter of Alexandria, that to which
its historical interest principally belongs. On the other side
of Cleopatra’s needles, were the market and the docks, occupy-
ing, as Wilkinson supposes, the site of the great square, and
extending to the Heptastadium. There was an island called
the Antirhodus, now destroyed—it is supposed by the action
of the sea, and within its shelter a closed port belonging to
the palace. No details of the western harbour are given by
Strabo, the only point noticed being the artiﬁcial basin of
Rhacotis, whence a canal went oﬁ' to the lake Mareotis, as at
present. This harbour, anciently called Eunostus, is now the
principal one , and on the shore are the palace of the pasha
and the arsenal. The modern city chieﬂy occupies, as will
he seen, the intervening space between the two harbours,
but it is extending gradually inland. The whole of the space
between the sea and the lake Mareotis, was covered by the
ancient city. Two great streets, a hundred feet wide, inter-
sected it at right angles, the general direction of which may
still be traced; one of these passed from the lake Mareotis,
below Pompey’s pillar, to the great harbour, so that the ship-
ping was visible at each extremity. It will be seen that but a
very small part of the immense site of the ancient city is now
built upon; an irregular wall encloses about half of it, but

 

_._._‘. __....- __.- —..-._— -on..--—w—<——.———--.

 

 

 

