 

 

60 vmw anon THE CITADEL.

passing hour ; or, overcome with drowsiness, takes a quiet nap
upon his shopboard. A dish of ‘ kabobs,’ pieces of mutton
seasoned with herbs, out small, and cooked on a spit, a glass of
water from the itinerant vender, or a cup of coffee from the
nearest shop, constitute his daily repast. And thus he con-
trives to wear away the listless hours till sun-down.

From the bazaars, by many a dim and winding street, there
is a gradual ascent to the citadel, which stands on a bold spur
of the bare sandstone mountain, through which indeed the road
is partly cut. The walls are solid, and in some places from
ﬁfty to one hundred feet high. Passing through its entrance
court, we come upon a terrace commanding one of the grandest
prospects in the world. Cairo, with its countless number of
carved domes and fantastic minarets, is taken in at a glance.
To the eastward, in a secluded valley separated from the city,
the long range of the tombs of the Memlook sultans stretches
into the distant desert towards Suez. 0n the south extends
the dense verdure of the Delta, a dark green streak which
comes up abruptly to the edge of the yellow sands. There
stood Heliopolis, the most learned city of Egypt, and there
yet stands its obelisk, upon which Abraham, may have gazed
with curiosity as he entered that wonderful land. But it is
to the westward that the chief glories of the scene expand; the
long range of the dusky pyramids, from the nearer ones of
Ghizeh to those of Sakhara and Dashoor, standing in sublime
serenity above the site of vanished Memphis, sole but most
glorious relics of the pride and power of the early Egyptian
kings of Lower Egypt; pointing backward from an antiquity
already hoary, through a long and dim vista of unknown
monarchs, towards the unknown origin of civilization. They
stand on the rocky edge of the boundless Libyan desert, over-
looking the verdant valley of the Nile, with its variegated
crops and scattered palm-groves and villages. Advancing
nearer to the city, on the banks of the river peep up the
minarets of Fostat or Old Cairo, marking the advent of another

 

 

