 

 

160 PROGRESS or msoovnnv.

at least to the minds of that learned priesthood, with whom the
secrets of science, as well as of religion, were deposited. Such is
the best description of Thebes, one which deduces its past mag-
niﬁcence from the existing wonders of its tombs and temples.
Mine is but the humble effort of a tourist, to wall: over the ﬁeld
which the learning and research of others has rendered so
fruitful, and give a few impressions, and those necessarily
imperfect ones, of its actual appearance to the eye.

It may be as well here to explain, what it is that has enabled
the student of Egyptian antiquities to make such surprising
progress within the course of the last quarter of a century.
The sculptures and paintings on the monuments were of course
equally palpable before that time ; but the key to their explana-
tion, that is, the power of deciphering the hieroglyphic inscrip-
tions, every where accompanying them, was wanting. The
ﬁrst impulse to the study was given by the expedition of Na-
poleon, and the publications of the French savans, which
awakened the attention of the learned, and many shrewd, and
many absurd guesses were made as to the import of these mys-
terious signs. By little and little, a nearer approximation was
made to the truth, the discovery of which was mainly owing to
the ﬁnding of the Rosetta stone, now in the British Museum.
This fragment, as most of our readers are aware, contains a
broken trilinguar inscription, in hieroglyphic or ﬁgurative—De-
motic or written character, and ordinary Greek characters. The
Greek inscription being proved to be a translation, attention
was next directed with intense earnestness to‘ the second or
Demotic one. The ﬁrst discovery was of the groups of signs
denoting proper names, such as Ptolemy, Alexander, &c., and
that these signs were also letters. The corresponding symbols
in the ﬁrst or hieroglyphic inscription were now the next
objects of attention; and Dr. Young, in 1819, at length made
known his identiﬁcation of the names of “ Ptolemy ” and
“ Berenice,” and of the nature of several of the symbolic letters,
thus giving the ﬁrst clue to subsequent discovery. But it was

C—‘I—v-

 

 

