 

 

96 VIEW FROM THE GREAT PYRAMID.

from above, another unceremoniously propelling us in the rear,
in a very short time we stood midway up the giant sides of the
monument, where we paused a moment, and pressing our backs
against the stonework, glanced, half fearfully, down the steep
descent of steps upon the ocean of sand at their base, and
the boundless horizon expanding in front, at the same time
peeping upwards to the sky-piercing summit. Averting our
eyes from the dizzy prospect, we then turned round, and more
and more excited as we continued the clamber, after a short and
desperate scramble, arrived panting and palpitating at the top.
Here the fall of a few layers has left a small platform of level
stonework, cracked, weather-beaten, and corroded by some
thousand years of time and tempests, and inscribed with the
names of travellers from every land.

The view from the great pyramid is wonderful as the struc-
ture itself. From its skyey crest we look down upon two re-
gions different as life from death. Far as the eye could see
stretched away the glorious valley, the eternal fertility of which
has outlived the empires founded on, and nourished by, its pro-
liﬁc soil. The same phenomenon to which that fertility was
owing was visibly renewed before my eyes: wide portions of
the valley were already becoming so many lagoons ; the villages
and palm groves were isolated; the life-giving waters poured
from the brimming river were making their way through various
channels, to saturate and enrich the plain. And every where
coming up to its green edge, and hemming it in with an im-
passable barrier, are the yellow sands of that boundless Libyan
desert, stretching away to the westward, on the elevated edge
of which the pyramids are placed. From the summit of the
ﬁrst of these the second appears in all its grandeur; the tem-
pest has lashed up the sand in great masses against its giant
sides ; at its foot is a region of the most ancient tombs and pits
in the world, the resting-places of priests and nobles clustered
round their monarch; their yawning oriﬁces, like the dens of
wild animals, honeycomb the broken sand. The Sphynx from

 

 

 

 

