 

 

 

 

 

A GLANCE AT MALTA. 13

whom happily all had been saved, were hauled up to the deck.
The ﬁrst that came up was a boy of only twelve or thirteen,
albeit looking, in his blue woollen shirt and sailor’s trousers, one
of the ﬁnest little fellows I ever saw. Asleep in his rude cot,
he had been hastily snatched from destruction, and stood
scarcely awake, and quite confounded at his novel situation.
.We. had struck the vessel amidships, and slight as the shock
seemed to me, had completely torn open her side: the crew
had barely time to throw themselves into the boat, and get
clear of her, ere she ﬁlled and went down. The darkness, our
blinding smoke, and the accidental going out of their lamp,
which occasioned some mistake in their steering, were the
causes of this misfortune, which cast its gloom over the rest of
our short voyage to Malta.

The next day the swell had subsided, a gentle breeze kept us
steadily before the wind, the sky had resumed its deep cerulean,
and after a glorious sunset, with the freshening wind, we cut
swiftly through the seething billows, sparkling with phosphoric
light, while the horizon ﬂashed with the vivid summer light-
ning. Indescribably beautiful are such evenings in the
Mediterranean; and as you approach the island of Malta,
brilliantly arise from the dark blue sea the white Moresco-
looking walls and domes of its capital, Valetta, bristling with
fortiﬁcations ancient and modern, backed by a sky already
nearly African, warm, lustrous, and soft, and without a particle
of smoke to prevent the minutest and most distant objects from
being relieved with the utmost clearness. One feels sensibly
approaching the golden climate of the East. A few hours in
this stronghold of the ancient knights of St. John of Jerusalem,
is a delightful relief to the sameness of even a brief voyage.
To any one coming for the ﬁrst time from Northern Europe, the
whole scene is singularly foreign. The white and yellow houses
of the city are piled picturesquely one above another, with their
ﬂat roofs, and large projecting green verandahs, surmounted
by towers and domes of every variety of unaccustomed form,

 

*ag—nn» _

"l

 

 

