 

 

170 PLAIN 0F THEBES.

the sandy soil; millions lay buried under the heaving mounds
and the deep holes through which intricate and dangerous
pathways run from ruin to ruin. On the verge of this region,
among the burning sands, stand conspicuous on the left the
ruins of the MEMNONIUM, one of the most extensive and elegant
of the temples, but hence appearing an indistinct mass of
columns and propylaaa. To the left, following the edge of the
cultivated soil, lies the path to the Assaseef, and some portions
of the tombs of which appear. On the left are seen the temple
and village of Gornou, not included in the view.

To the right, the path from the Memnonium conducts to the
extensive mounds and ruins of MEDEENE’I‘ HABOU, a world in
itself; and behind is the gloomy Birket Habou, or lake of
Habou, formerly dedicated to funeral ceremonies, and now seen
surrounded by sandy mounds. In this direction, the city on this
side, called the Libyan suburb, probably terminated. Conspicu-
ous in the centre of the view, on the cultivated ground be-
tween the Memnonium and Medeenet Habou, stands, in lonely,
isolated grandeur, the colossal statue of the Vocal Memnon
and its more distant fellow; the earth has risen about their base
and covered the fallen fragments of that avenue of sphynxes
and buildings with which they stood connected. Beyond these,
on the other side of the broad solitary river, appears, at a pro-
minent point, the village and temple of LUXOR ; and to the left
of this, at the distance of more than a mile, are the groups of
propylaaa, walls, and columns of KARNAK, whose wonderful ex-
tent and colossal character are reduced by distance to a confused,
undistinguishable mass. It was around and far beyond this
central ruin, the heart of old Thebes, the perished city ex-
tended eastward towards the Arabian mountains.

Let us go back for a moment to the period of its highest
magniﬁcence. The vacant plain was then covered by the
crowded streets of the capital, and from the spot where we
stood, instead of the death-like silence which broods over it,
we should have heard the hum of its immense population.

 

 

