 

33 - Frasr meanesroxs or run mu.

class, and that sunk in a wide-spreading dead uniformity of
misery,—all 'mdicates the existence of a race of slaves, who owe
to kind nature, to the l'ghtsome temperament induced by the
serenity of the chate, and the few wants it occasions, the only
mitigation of their unhappy condition, of which misguverm
ment and tyranny are unable to deprive them.

Notwithstanding the very great conveniences enjoyed in;
travelling by a stem-er, I shall always rejoice that my ﬁrst
impressions on the Nile were received; in another kind. of craft.
I arrived at Ati’eh, where the canal joins the river, 'm the
evening, and found a small boat belonging to the then existing
Transit Company, newly painted and ﬁtted. A servant wae
on board to provide for and. attend the hirer. Though it
could not be deemed an economical convcyuoe,"t was, for the
size, exceedingly comfortable, ad ﬁtted with every requisite
save bedding, which I had with me. It had, moreover, the
honourable distinction of being the fastest «an cm the river,
as I soon perceived, to my great satisfaction, by leaving every
thing behind. Happily, I had not yet learned the triﬂing
drawback to mis advantage which afterwards. came: to light,
that fromitbsharpbuilid andtheheavyprcssoﬂsaﬂthat 'w
carried, it had been more than once capsiaed.

Ihaetenedonboard‘; the sun had sunkandgiwn placetoa
rosy twilight, and the moon peeped up above the rich: loyal. of
the Delta. And here I must notice, that what reconciles the
traveller“ to this land of- phrgues-of ﬂiee andi beggars, of deg:
and dust and vermin, is not alone the monumental wonders on
the banks: of. the Nile, but the beauty of the climate,» the
lightness of the. air, impr a: genial luxury of. senntion,
the glorious. unfailing sun-set and serene twilight, reﬂected in.
the noble river, and casting over the hoary remains of antiquity
a glow and gorgeousness of hue which heightens their melan-
choly grandeur, and gilding over a mud village until even:
its ﬁlth and; misery are; forgotten». I mounted the roof of the
little cabin as the broad latine sail swelled smoothly under the

 

.._7

 

