 

 

184 mmrcanon.

matic gums, are heaped together in horrid grotesque confusion,
like the skeletons and heaps of bones in a neglected chamel-
house. The resurrection-men of Gornou, who house themselves
in the tombs cut in the rock, are regularly employed in riﬂing
these pits in quest of articles to be sold to travellers; sometimes
an entire mummy in its case is carried off to be sold intact,
others are rent to pieces in quest of the ornaments which may
have been buried with their possessors; the painted case or
prepared linen which may have enveloped the body is ruth-
lessly torn off, and the shrivelled ghastly carcasses are scattered
about in all directions in the sand, generally dismembered.
Everything seems given up to ruthless havoc, and yet the
stock of plunder is unexhausted, for in these cemeteries a whole
nation is entombed.

“ Mummiﬁcation,” says Gliddon in his interesting essay, from
which these particulars are compressed, “ preceded, in all proba-
bility, the building of the pyramids and tombs, because vestiges
of mummies have been found in the oldest of these, and, in fact,
the ﬁrst mummies were buried in the sand before the Egyptians
possessed the necessary tools for excavating sepulchres in the
rock. In the time of Joseph the art was not new. Manetho
and Clemens Alexandrinus mention circumstances which lead
us to infer the existence of manuscript treatises on the art
between 8000 and 5000 years ago, which is conﬁrmed by
passages in the “ Book of the Dead” at Turin, translated by Dr.
Lepsius. The practice continued long after the Christian era,
and some of the fathers made it the object of their anathemas.
It did not cease entirely till the seventh century after Christ,
or the Muslim invasion. Thus we may suppose that mummi-
ﬁcation has subsisted for a period, in round numbers, of some
4000 years. The number of mummies are between four and
ﬁve hundred millions. The earliest mummy cases, like that, for
instance, of king Mencheres in the British Museum, were ex-
tremely simple, and the bodies were prepared with natron, or
dried in ovens, and wrapped in woollen cloth, linen being

 

 

