 

 

 

 

 

'rns spnrxx. 93

cuitous, on account of the rising inundation, which had not yet,
however, entirely cut of the usual communication. We reached
the edge of the cultivated land as the sun was setting behind the
pyramids in a ﬂush of glory, shooting beams of intensely red light
across the irregular sands. Our approach was not unperceived,
and a whole posse of Arabs soon rushed forward, not to offer, but
to force upon us their importunate, annoying services. It was
useless to drive them away; they returned like ﬂies to the attack ;
fortunately, we had brought with us a well-armed janissary,
who knew how to deal with them, and whose baton was pretty
freely used upon their heads and shoulders. When we reached
our dormitory among the tombs, the Sheik of the village came
forward, and we agreed with him for the services of two Arabs
to accompany us about the neighbourhood, and help us on the
following morning to ascend the great pyramid. This done, we
sallied forth by the light of the rising moon, which touched the
tops of the billowy waves of sand, while their hollows were in
deep shadow. A majestic apparition suddenly burst upon us—
an enormous head and shoulders, whitened by the moonlight,
towered above the extremity of one of the sand ravines which
lay in obscurity below, through which, far beneath the chest
of the statue, dimly peeped out the traces of the winged globe
upon the tablet formerly buried beneath its paws. The
features were much mutilated, yet an expression faintly beam-
ed through them of bland repose and immutable serenity.
The pyramids in all their vastness arose behind. No assem-
blage of objects could be more awful or imposing. The
heaving sands which surge up and down, like the petriﬁed
waves of a sea, by concealing the base of the Sphynx,
and burying the temple and avenue of approach which for-
merly led up, cause it to resemble some mysterious pre-
adamite monarch, or one of those gigantic genii of Arabian
ﬁction, which make their abode in the desolate places of the
earth. It is not surprising, therefore, that it should, as
Wilkinson informs us, be known to the superstitious Arabs of

 

 

———-—._—_—.-.n.-

 

h-4-__-—

 

