 

 

iv PREFACE.

rendered distinct and intelligible. Something, too, is attempted of
the characteristic scenery of the river, and something of modern man-
ners and customs. The ﬁgures were all put in from actual sketches,
often exactly as they stand. In short, the book. though far from
giving an adequate idea of Egyptian scenery and monuments, which
is indeed impossible on the scale, so far as it goes, may claim to be a
correct one, at least in intention and endeavour.

The authorities quoted are generally named, but the author cannot
omit to acknowledge his especial obligations to the kindness of Mr.
Samuel Sharpe, the historian of Egypt. The interest taken by that
gentleman in every attempt to populariss the favourite subject of his
studies, has led him, not only to present the writer with a brief in-
troduction, but also to allow the literal quotation of such portions of
his volume as happened to bear upon the subject described, giving
thereby a permanent utility and value to what would otherwise be
trivial and fugitive. Thus, the entire historical sketch of Thebes,
preﬁxed to the account of its ruins, is extracted in full from his
valuable “ History of Egypt.”

Finally, should any one, by glancing over these pages, be tempted
to think of visiting the country they describe let him not suppose it
is intended to usurp the functions of a guide book, beyond pointing
out the prominent objects of interest. For the manners and customs
of Ancient Egypt, and a detailed description of the existing monu-
ments, the works of Sir Gardner Wilkinson are indispensable; as are
those of Lane for the modern state of Egypt. These are not the
hasty sketches of a passing tourist, but the result of years of patient
and learned investigation; and no one should think of going to Egypt
without them; nor, we must say in addition, without the history
already referred to. More compact and portable editions than the
present of these invaluable volumes would, however, be a boon to the
traveller, by whom, more than any one else, “ a great book” is felt
to be “ a great evil.”

 

 

 

