 

 

200 vmw raon EDFOU.

with azure and green as when ﬁrst from the painter’s hand.
The annexed engraving is a view from this point, looking back
to the entrance-towers, and a tolerably complete idea may be
formed from it, of the imposing appearance of the access to an
Egyptian temple in its complete state. The massive capitals of
the corridor will show the graceful variety already noticed in
the description of Esneh, some of which are, to our thinking,
more beautiful than the capitals of the Greek orders. The re-
mainder of the interior is almost ﬁlled up with rubbish, and,
imperfectly seen, as it needs must be, hardly repays the trouble
of groping through heaps of dust and ﬁlth. We therefore as-
cended the roof of the corridors, and walked round great part
of the walls, which are strong and lofty as those of a castle.
Hence we could peep down upon the miserable mud-built
hovels of the modern town, into its foul, narrow, blind passages,
choked up with half-naked children and wolﬁsh-looking dogs;
while beyond, the green variegated crops of the Nile valley,
dotted with graceful groups of palms, and the broad river roll-
ing through the midst, was almost painfully in contrast with
the abject wretchedness and degradation of its human tenants.
Edfou seen, we at once rejoined our boat, and sailing on by the
light of a glorious evening, reached the remarkable pass of
Hagar Silsilis, or “ the Rock of the Chain.” This is the only
spot all the way from the sea, where the river is bordered on
both sides by a chain of lofty precipices coming down abruptly
to the river, and contracting its current into a comparatively
narrow space. Here we moored for the night, near one of the
ancient grottos curiously cut in the face of the crag, and early
in the morning were ashore to explore them. Some of them
are of very ancient date, and record the triumphs of the early
, Pharaohs over their Ethiopian enemies. But the most remark-
able sight at Silsilis, is the sandstone quarries on both sides the
river. From these alone, were the monuments of Egypt totally
destroyed, we might have inferred their vast number and their
colossal proportions. Their extent is perfectly amazing.

 

 

