 

 

mumsns III. 153

which he conquered, and one of these still remains in Syria
near Beyrout, side by side with a similar memorial of a Persian
or Assyrian conqueror. On his return home from Thrace along
the northern shores of the Black Sea, he left a colony of sol-
diers on the Phasis at Colchis, an action which Herodotus gives
to Sesostris ; and Rameses II. was succeeded by three kings of
lesser note, after whom came Rameses III., who built the palace
temple of Medeenet Habou, which we shall presently describe.
He too was a great conqueror, as the sculptures abundantly
testify. With him terminates the glory of this old race of
Coptic kings. Under his successors Thebes gradually sunk;
its kings lost possession of Lower Egypt, and were even vassals
of the distant kings of Bubastis and Tanis in the Delta. The
power of Thebes ends in obscurity ; and history is unable to ﬁx
the date when it ceased to be the capital of Egypt; but we
must suppose, that its fall and the want of records were caused
and accompanied by civil war.

During the past centuries of Theban greatness, the country
was little known to either Jews or Greeks, the two people in
whose writings we naturally hope to ﬁnd information. In the
Hebrew Scriptures Upper Egypt is scarcely mentioned; while
by the Greeks it was only spoken of with ignorant wonder.
In the Iliad, Thebes is called the richest city in the world,
having a hundred gates, through each of which two hundred
warriors issued in their war-chariots to battle and to victory.
But it was to Homer wholly in the land of fable, far beyond
the reach of knowledge; it was called the birth-place of some
of the Greek gods; and it was with the righteous Ethiopians,
or people of the Thebaid, that Jupiter and his family were
thought to be spending their twelve days’ holidays, when the
Greeks, ﬁghting before the walls of Troy, thought their prayers
were unheard. In the Odyssey we are told, that Neptune
visited the same country, and dined with these Ethiopians,
while the other gods were absent in Jupiter’s palace on Mount
Olympus; but nothing is mentioned that shows that the poet

L.

 

 

