 

 

82 AN ADVENTURE AT DAMABCUS.

through the narrow streets, the crowd sullenly made way for
us, and curses, not loud, but deep, were no doubt muttered
in the choicest Arabic. Many a ﬁlthy dervish, pale with
suppressed hate, looked daggers as we passed him by.
While such was the sullen fanaticism of the populace,
only restrained by the arms of Ibrahim, another spirit was
gaining ground among certain of the higher classes. The
notorious indifference of the pasha himself to the Moslem in-
stitutes, and the liberalism of his European oﬂicers, which had
infected also the native ones, began to inﬂuence certain of the
Mussulman aristocracy; and, as extremes commonly meet,
while the populace were ready to tear to pieces the Giaours
who dared to insult their streets in the odious hat and European
dress, some of the higher illuminati took a secret pleasure in
showing their emancipation from the prejudices of their fore-
fathers. Of this class, principally, were the visitors to the
consul’s house. I was on one occasion engaged in drawing the
costume of a native female servant, when a man of some dis-
tinction entered, a Moollah of high descent, claiming as his
ancestor no less a personage than the father of Ayesha, the
favourite wife of the prophet himself. His demeanour was
exceedingly grave and digniﬁed, and, as I afterwards remarked,
he was saluted in the streets with singular respect. His amuse-
ment was extremely great as he saw the girl’s ﬁgure rapidly
transferred to paper; he smiled from time to time, as if oc-
cupied with some pleasant idea, of which at length he delivered
himself, expressing his wish, to our inﬁnite surprise, that I
should come to his house in company with the consul, and take
a drawing of his favourite wife. It may be supposed that so
singular an invitation, one so opposed to every Mussulman prej u-
dice, and even established custom, much amused and excited us.
At the appointed hour we repaired to the old Moollah’s abode.
Externally, unlike the houses of Cairo, it presented nothing but
a long dark wall upon the side of a narrow dusty lane ; within,
however, every thing bore testimony to the wealth and luxury

 

 

