 

 

64 . MOSQUE on THE SULTAN HASSAN.

the founder’s wish to have it built in the shape of a piece of
paper he happened to be twisting. The dome over the
fountain in the centre of the area is of later date than the
arcades.’

Near the citadel, at the corner of the open square of the
Roomaylee, is the mosque of the sultan Hassan, conspicuous
on the approach to the city, in some respects certainly the
ﬁnest in Cairo, though the design is somewhat unequal and
incongruous, and neither the dome nor minaret are at all equal
in beauty to many smaller specimens; the former somewhat
resembling the clumsy style of those of Constantinople, built
up with unsightly buttresses, instead of springing up gracefully
from its foundation. Of the side next the square, a very good
idea may be formed by referring to the view from the citadel
in the foreground of which it appears. What is unique, and
indeed unequalled, is the magniﬁcent porch and the cornice
above it ; which, as the spectator comes up through the narrow
crowded street, called the Sook e Zullut, ‘ or arm bazaar,’ strikes
him with marvellous effect, towering to an amazing height, and
displaying in its honeycomb tracery a noble breadth of design,
with intricacy and richness of detail, which surpasses every other
in the city, ﬁne as some of them are. It is quite impossible to
do justice to such a specimen in a small drawing; and besides,
the street is so narrow that only a side view can be obtained,
yet the accompanying view will in some measure bear out these
remarks. A peculiar effect, which cannot be imitated in the
engraving, is produced by the black and red marbles with
which portions are inlaid. ' This view also exhibits a very
good specimen of the exterior of the houses of the old style,
with their open galleries, and the elaborately fretted wood-
work of their projecting windows and coverings, which produce
a very picturesque effect, with the cafe below, overshaded,
as is commonly the case, by an awning. The gateway leads

' See Wilkinson for further details of this mosque.

 

 

