 

 

 

THE VOCAL MEMNON. 181

to think how many victims of the fate of war, torn from distant
climes and deprived of every solace, must have perished, the
weak with the strong, in these exhausting labours. We may
hear the panting cry, and mark the failing strength, as, urged
along by the blow of the taskmaster, the sinking captive
dropped upon the sand, a vision of his distant country rushing
through his expiring brain. We may imagine, too, the sense of
exultation with which the Thebans would witness the rearing of
these statues of their great warrior kings, only to be equalled
by the savage satisfaction with which a foreign invader would
behold them retributively hurled prostrate on the sand, from
which they would never again be raised.

A peculiar, almost poetical interest hovers about the statue
invested by ancient tradition with the name of the “ Vocal
Memnon,” which, according to old accounts, when the sun rose
above the Arabian mountains and touched its lips with light,
was supposed to utter responsive sounds; even modern visitors
having repaired there before sun-rise with vague expecta-
tion, that, by the Operation of some peculiar cause, not yet
understood, the marvel might be realized for them, but in vain.
Some have considered the sounds as produced by accident, and
instances of a somewhat similar nature have certainly been met
with, of tones issuing forth from among hollow rocks ; but there
is far more reason to believe, that it was a contrivance of the
priesthood to extend their inﬂuence over a superstitious people.
The mystery, to all appearance, has been unravelled by Sir G.
Wilkinson: he had remarked, that one of the visitors had com-
pared the sound to that of brass; and ascended to the lap of
the statue, ﬁrst posting some Arabs at its base, who exclaimed,
as he struck the stone with a hammer, “ You are striking brass.”
This explanation, however, has not satisﬁed every one.

Inscriptions expressive of the admiration or spleen of tra-
vellers, are no where more numerous than on this statue.
Great numbers of Greeks and Romans visited it in the reign
of Hadrian and the Antonines, and never failed to repair

 

 

