 

 

 

150 THOTHMOSls.—AMUNOTHPH.

driving these barbarian invaders from the Egyptian soil; and
from his reign we may date the rise of Upper Egypt to its
palmiest state of political supremacy and splendour. The
palaces, temples, and tombs of Thebes now. increased in size and
beauty with each succeeding monarch. Amunothph, Thothmo-
sis, and especially the beautiful Nitocris, the last of the race of
the Memphite sovereigns, by whose marriage with Thothmosis
Upper and Lower Egypt were united, continued to make im-
portant additions to the temple at Karnak. Nitocris also
built the temple or palace, now called Dayr el Bahree, at the foot
of the Libyan hills, being the most westerly temple in Thebes,
at the extremity of the Assaseef (see plan). A straight Dromos,
or avenue, sixteen hundred feet long, between a double row of
sphynxes, now destroyed, led from the ﬁrst gateway of this
temple to the ﬁrst court; a second slope of three hundred and
ﬁfty feet further, is the doorway into the inner court; three
hundred further, the second granite doorway, leading into the
small vaulted rooms, and the chambers tunnelled into the moun-
tain-side. Thothmosis III., her successor, also added greatly
to the magniﬁcence of Karnak, as also to other parts of Egypt.
The sculptures in the tombs display a procession of seventeen
nations, comprising Abyssinians, Ethiopians, Arabians, and
Asiatic nations bordering on the Nile, who are bringing their
costly gifts in homage to this king. To him is attributed
the formation of the lake of Maeris. The Theban monarchy
had now reached its full extent, comprising Upper and Lower
Egypt with Ethiopia. To Thothmosis succeeded Amunothph
II. , in whose reign some place the Exodus of the Israelites. His
grandson, Amunothph III., added to the temple of Karnak, and
also commenced that of Luxor : it is his statue, now called the
“ Vocal Memnon,” which ﬁrst salutes the traveller as be ap-
proaches Thebes, like a venerable land-mark in history. The
tomb of Amunothph is one of the oldest and most extensive. Ra-
meses I. soon followed Amunothph, and with his family the glory
of Thebes arose to its utmost height. His son, Oimenepthah,

 

 

 

