 

 

110 nscnssrrv or THE STICK.

victory; the rest, if there were any, retreating forward to their
ﬁtting quarters near the person of the Reis and his men, and
coming no more about the quarter-deck. Salem was indig-
nant at the Reis, who turned out a lazy, dirty, worthless rascal,
and wanted to beat him; but this discipline of the stick, though
very ancient, highly necessary, and perfectly well understood
in Egypt, revolts at ﬁrst one’s English prejudices, and I for-
bade him to resort to it. He shrugged his shoulders, and
assured me, that as I should at length be driven to it in spite
of myself, it was better to begin at once by producing a whole-
some impression, which would be an ultimate saving in the
amount required, declaring that, but for my injunction, he
would begin by breaking the Reis’s head at once. The truth
is, that the bastinado was found indispensable by the ancient
Egyptians, and that it was administered even to the softer sex,
who certainly do seem, even in modern Egypt, to require some
little correction. The subjects of Rameses the Great took the
stick to their refractory wives, and so do the modern Arabs.
It is not easy to eradicate the habits of ages, and it is a sad fact
that nothing can be done without it. The peasant makes it a
point of honour not to pay his rent, though he has it in his
pocket, till he has been so beaten that he cannot stand upon
his legs. I foolishly demurred, and had afterwards much oc-
casion to regret my ill-timed interference with established
usage. Reluctance to harsh measures passed for facility and
weakness. I was constantly annoyed, and all but driven to that
“ ultima ratio” with an Arab boatman, the inﬂiction of the
bastinado by an unfeeling petty governor. Much depends
however on the character of the captain; mine, to my sorrow,
proving a very unfortunate selection. Very amusing are the
airs and graces of Salem—my dragoman and factotum, in the
exercise of his little brief authority over the Reis and sailors;
and truly, for my own sake, I was glad to lend fuel to his con-
ceit, and zeal to his watchful oversight.

With the evening breeze the sails were spread, and we ran

 

 

 

 

