 

 

SULEYMAN AGHA. 57

death, and their houses sacked. When all was over, the pasha,
who had not dared to intruSt his favourite with the dangerous
secret'of his designs, deeply concerned at the loss of his Mame-
luke friend, was lamenting his supposed death, when, to his
surprise and joy, he suddenly appeared before him. Scarcely
could Mehemet Ali believe his eyes, or sufﬁciently express his
satisfaction, and he hastily inquired by what means Suleyman
Agha had effected his escape from that terrible scene of
carnage. The Mameluke told him that he had disguised him-
self as a woman; but this was too much for his Highness’s
belief; the portly frame and manly countenance of the Agha
seemed to render such a metamorphosis impossible, and he
frankly expressed his incredulity. Of this at the time the
Mameluke took no notice, but several days afterwards there
appeared before his Highness a woman, clothed in the usual
blue robe of the lower class of Arab females, with the long
white veil concealing all but the eyes. She came to make a
complaint against her husband, upon whose wrongs towards her
she entered with all the volubility of a Caireen female. The
case was clear, the judgment given in her favour, and a pun-
ishment ordered for the delinquent husband; when the sup-
posed suﬂ'erer, throwing up her veil, inquired of the pasha if
he was at length satisﬁed. It was no other than his old friend
Suleyman. Great merriment ensued upon this eclaircissement,
and the sole survivor of his slaughtered brethren has ever since
been on the most cordial terms both with the pasha and the
principal personages of Cairo.

In the foreground of this view is seen a donkey-driver with
his beast; being, in fact, a portrait of the little familiar who
habitually conveyed me about the city and its environs, and
served me too in the ofﬁce of a Cicerone. I have spoken of the
admirable qualities of the Egyptian ass, of its strength, and
spirit; the difﬁculty, at least in the crowded streets of Cairo,
being rather to restrain its rapid movements, which often
bring one into peril of collision with a veiled lady or a loaded

E O

 

 

