 

 

 

180 noun or rssnsroa'r.

Not so, however, with this pair—survivors of the downfal
which has overtaken other colossi of materials more solid.
Hoary, and blackened, and time-worn, they may well seem to
have already outlived the fall of empires and creeds, and yet
to be destined in their immovable solidity to testify of the
grandeur of ancient Thebes to nations yet unborn.

When we consider the astonishing magnitude of these statues,
and of that still more extraordinary one of the Memnonium which
we have just described, as well as of the obelisks at Karnak,we
are puzzled how to conceive of their mode of transport or erec-
tion. The stone from which the two sitting statues are cut is
not found, as Wilkinson informs us, within several days’ journey
of the place, and the Syenite granite of the Memnonium was
brought from the cataracts to Thebes, a distance of 138 miles.
The block being separated from the contiguous mass by the
action of wedges, and hewn into shape, scaﬂ'oldings were raised
about it, and it was polished and completed by the workmen.
The mode of transport was probably by water, but we are at a
loss to suggest the means of lowering and raising at will such
stupendous masses. A most interesting representation of the
manner of dragging along a colossus was discovered by Irby and
Mangles, in a tomb, and is ﬁgured and described in Wilkinson’s
work. A body of nearly two hundred men, probably cap-
tives, such alone being employed in similar services, are ar-
ranged in four columns, and are toiling under the eye of the
taskmaster, at the exhausting task of dragging the statue by
rcpes, inch by inch, towards the place of its destination. This
statue was not above half the size of the colossi, consequently
we must suppose double the number of men to have been here
employed. It is placed in a sledge, and the inclined plane,
whether on the ground or of boarding, is being greased or wet-
ted to facilitate the descent. A man stands on the knee of the
colossus, beating time, or uttering, like the Nile boatmen, a shout,
by which the captives, as they repeated it, might count each
separate pulsation of their long-continued agony. It is verysad

 

 

