 

 

182 xou EL HATTAN.

thither at sun-rise. When Hadrian visited Thebes the second
time, his empress was disappointed at not hearing the musical
sounds, but on her hinting threats of the emperor’s displeasure,
her curiosity was gratiﬁed on the following morning.

These statues were not, as would be the ﬁrst impression of
the ordinary visitor, isolated monuments of Theban magni-
ﬁcence, but stood in advance of an extensive temple, of which
few vestiges now remain, at “ Kom el Hattan, or the mound of
sandstone,” in the rear; and to the south of them. With this
they were connected by a long Dromos, or avenue, which, with
other statues, Wilkinson supposes to have extended across the
western portion of the city, and to have communicated with
Luxor by a ferry across the Nile, and thus to have been a
main thoroughfare of ancient Thebes. What a vision of
past magniﬁcence, of warlike or religious pageants passing to
and fro, does this bring up before us! How many successive
generations must have trodden the pavement of this royal
street! At that period, the level of the inundated plain, as well
as of the bed of the river, of course was much lower than at
present; so that the inundation did not extend so far back to-
wards the western mountain, nor, as now, cover the bases of the
statues which rest on the sand, with a deposit several feet
deep.

It will be observed in the drawing that the upper half of the
Vocal Memnon (the nearer statue) has been built up again in
huge layers of masonry. Strabo was told that its previous de-
struction was caused by the shock of an earthquake ; but there
can be little doubt, that it was the work of Cambyses when he
ravaged the adjacent Memnonium. The dimensions of the
statues are about the same as those of the wonderful one at the
Memnonium already ﬁgured, but they must yield to that in the
solidity of the material, these being single blocks of sandstone
instead of Syenite granite. To this more friable material the
comparative antiquity of their appearance is much owing. On
each side of the leg is a female statue, and on the side a repre-

 

 

 

