 

 

OPHTHALMIA AND BUGS. 109

proved' a great luxury, we had a goat on board, and a ﬁltering
stone for the water, besides “ goollehs,” or vases of porous clay
to cool the water. I shall not give a list of the various ar-
ticles we took with us; sufﬁce it to say, that they were pretty
numerous, as they must be, if a reasonable measure of comfort
is to be attained. The boat, when ﬁtted up, was quite a snug
little ark, a world in itself. I went on board, proud of my
ﬂoating home. I was monarch of all I surveyed, and amused
myself with arranging every thing in the nicest order; and
what with books, pistols, matting carpets, and green blinds, it
looked so pretty and so cheerful, and when I lay down on my
bed in the cabin, the breezes were so delightful and refreshing,
that I heartily rejoiced I was out of the stiﬂing heat of Cairo
and fairly embarked on my cruise.

But, alas for all human anticipations! the morning opened
most inauspiciously; the boat proves to be full of bugs, and I
passed a restless, a savage night; in addition, Salem has a
violent attack of ophthalmia, and has been rolling about the deck
in agony: fortunately, we had with us sulphate of zinc and
copper, and after obtaining from the city some rosewater, I
mixed them, and applied as per prescription in Sir G. Wilkin-
son’s Hand-book, and had the satisfaction of seeing Salem rapidly
improve. The extermination of the bugs was matter of more
difﬁculty; the scoundrel of a Reis had neglected to sink the
boat as he had promised, and from every chink and crevice in
the old planks hundreds came forth, scenting the blood of an
Englishman ; books, matting, and clothing were all in a swarm
with the disgusting vermin, from the swollen old patriarch to
the youngest of his descendant fry. We threw the mats over-
board to begin with, removed all the furniture, and by dint of
sundry pails of water, furious scrubbing, ferreting out the nests
with an iron pike, stufﬁng the chinks with camphor, and then sub-
jecting every separate article to a rigid investigation, we routed
the main body the ﬁrst day, and by a watchful look-out till the
second evening, and cutting off stragglers, had fairly gained the

 

 

