‘— ._-_._.._—

 

 

148 FIRST VIEW or THE PLAIN.

Medeenet Habou on the western, with the hoary, awful Co-
lossi, lonely landmarks in the midst of the plain; but the
effect of these objects was lost by distance. The only grand
feature was the lofty barren mountain of yellow sandstone
overhanging the western quarter of the city, with the dark
oriﬁces of its countless tombs, and which seemed to reverberate
the ardent rays of the vertical sun.

If the eye was not gratiﬁed by this feeling of utter and
mournful vacancy, the mind, perhaps, was not the less impressed.
The river, once gay with numerous vessels, poured silently down
under the golden heat of noon; but our own bark alone lazily
cleft its waters. No buildings appeared on the river-side, save
on the western bank a solitary hovel, overhung by a stunted
sycamore tree, our destined landing-place. To this the exhausted
sailors made fast the boat, put out a plank, and in a few moments
were fallen fast asleep in the shadow of the old tree. The
plain around us lay in breathless silence and sultry heat; the
mountains colourless as if calcined; the distant temples like
the blackened wrecks of a conﬂagration; the palms, smitten by
the sun, scarcely rustled their languid leaves; the vegetation was
parched, the over-arching sky of intense oppressive brightness.
For a long time not a sound reached us. From the shadow
of the cabin I watched for some signs of the inhabitants, but for
a long while not a being appeared in sight, till suddenly I saw,
spurring towards the landing-place, a whole tribe of Ciceroni,
donkey-boys and vendors of curiosities, who, from their sepul-
chral dwellings in the distant cliffs of Gornou, had descried our
boat, and were all eager to welcome and proﬁt by the earliest tra-
veller of the season. The appearance of these gentry was highly
picturesque ; their faces and heavy features of Coptic mould—
dark, almost to blackness—were set off by large turbans ; their
long brown robes relieved by a sort of plaid shawl of gay and
varied colours, and gracefully wreathed about their shoulders.
There was a general rush into the boat, and testimonials from
preceding travellers, scraps of papyrus and mummy cases,

 

 

 

