 

 

A MARRIAGE PROCESSION. 65

into a Khan. This is the main thoroughfare in the city,
yet by taking one of the cane seats of a small café, I was en-
abled to complete my sketch without the slightest interruption.
In the foreground is to be seen one of the sights which the
stranger is sure to encounter, however short his stay ; a ‘ zeﬂ'ch,’
or preliminary marriage procession. The bride, whose dress
and person are entirely concealed by a shawl, accompanied by
one or two of her relations, advances beneath a gay-coloured
canopy of silk, borne by four men ; in front is a procession of
her female friends, married and unmarried, the latter being
distinguished by their white wrappers from the black silk ones
worn by the former. The whole is preceded by a party of
musicians playing on hautboys and drums, and in the case of
the lower orders, accompanied by a peculiar cry of the women,
called ‘ zughareet,’ or rolling of the voice, expressive, with
triﬂing modulation, either of joy or sorrow. The bride then
repairs to the bath, other ceremonies, some of which are ex-
tremely singular,‘ precede the union, which does not take place
until the following night.

The interior of the mosque of Sultan Hassan does not, at least
to many, altogether fulﬁl the promise of the noble portal. A
vestibule conducts into an open court, with a fountain, and
four recesses covered by as many arches, which attract atten-
tion from their unusual size and ﬁne proportion. The recess on
the east side as usual is deeper, and is surmounted by the lofty
dome. The general aspect is one of severe and somewhat
gloomy grandeur. Many are the legends connected with it.

A curious contrast to the lofty entrance of the mosque of
Hassan, the type of the greater number in the city, is presented
by the gateway to the mosque of the Azhar, which will re-
mind one, in many respects, of the Gothic portals of western
Europe, though the detail is very dissimilar. There is another
one at the opposite extremity of this extensive enclosure, which
is almost entirely surrounded by houses, through which are

" See Lane.
v

 

 

.___-—»—-——u- '1'

 

