 

 

 

RAMESES THE GREAT. 151

erected the stupendous hall of Karnak, the walls of which are
covered with the most spirited sculptures in Egypt, represent-
ing his Asiatic conquests. He storms their cities among the
mountains, and leads back his prisoners in triumph to the
temple of Amun Ra. The river Nile is known in this sculp-
ture by the crocodiles swimming about in it, and the bridge
over it is, perhaps, the earliest met with in history. The tomb
of this king, which we shall presently describe, is the most
beautiful in Egypt, the paintings being almost as fresh and
vivid as at the day of their execution.

Amunmai Rameses II., the son of the last king, was the
monarch under whom Upper Egypt rose to its greatest height
in arms, in arts, and in wealth. He ﬁnished the palace of the
Memnonium or Miamunei, at Abydos, so called from his own
name, Miamun, or Amunmai. He also ﬁnished the temple of
Osiris in the same city, and on one of the walls he carved that
list of his forefathers, now in the British Museum, which is
known by the name of the tablet of Abydos, a monument which
has guided us safely in this history through seventeen reigns.
He added to Osirtesen’s old temple at Karnak, and ﬁnished
Amunothph’s temple at Luxor, and his father’s temple at Old
Quorneh. Thus Thebes had already four large fortiﬁed tem-
ples or palaces, the three just mentioned and that of queen
Nitocris at Dahr el Bahree ; and to these Ramese's II. added a
new palace, which, like that of Abydos, was by the Greeks
called the Memnonium. In the ﬁrst court there was a colossal
statue of himself, larger than any other in Egypt; and in the
second yard were two smaller statues, from one of which was
taken the colossal head now in the British Museum. The
spacious rooms, with the columns which once upheld the roofs,
are still gazed on with wonder by our travellers, and were
standing in all their glory when Hecatseus travelled in Upper
Egypt. He praises the inscription over the library door, which
called the books the medicine of the mind. Carved and
painted on the walls of the Memnonium are the king’s victories

 

