 

p———-—-———- _V— ‘7

 

11131011? or CAIRO. ‘ 49

ever been succeeded not by their sons, but by their servants.
With some breathing intervals of peace and order, the two
dynasties are marked as a period of rapine and bloodshed, but
their throne, however shaken, reposed on the two pillars of
discipline and valour; their sway extended over Egypt, Nubia,
Arabia, and Syria, their Mamelukes were multiplied from eight
hundred to twenty-ﬁve thousand horse, and their numbers
were increased by a provincial militia of one hundred and
seven thousand foot, and the occasional aid of sixty-six thousand
Arabs.” This powerful dynasty has now passed away, leaving
but a great name in history, and a group of beautiful tombs
fast falling into irretrievable ruin. The Baharite sultans,
Baybers and Kalaoon, played a glorious part in the history of
the crusades, the taking of Acre under the son of the latter
resulting in a ﬁnal abandonment of Syria by the Christian
knights. Meanwhile Saracenic architecture appears to have
gradually attained its highest degree of perfection, for to this
period belongs the beautiful mosque of Sultan Hassan, and
the tombs of the Circassian Memlooks. This dynasty sup-
planted the Baharite in 1382. The ﬁrst of them, Sultan
Berkook, was distinguished for his valour. El Ashraf Kaitbay
in his turn made head against the growing power of the
Turks, and obliged Sultan Bajazet to conclude a peace. The
rule of the Circassian Memlooks was brought at length to a
close by the defeat of Ghoreeh, and his successor, Toman Bey,
by the Turkish sultan Selim, who, though he abolished the
sovereignty, left, however, the Memlook aristocracy in con-
ditional possession of Egypt. With the fall of the Memlook
sultans terminates the historical interest of Cairo; for the in-
trigues of their successors, until extirpated by Mehemet Ali,
would be both tedious and unproﬁtable in a work of this light
texture. Such is a brief sketch of the long period during
which Arabian architecture grew up from extreme simplicity to
the highest state of enrichment, while the Gothic was making
similar progress in our own country and throughout Europe.
a

 

 

