 

 

osuus, 1818, AND norms. 211

His sepulchre, says Diodorus, is revered by all the priests
throughout Egypt, and three hundred and sixty cups are ﬁlled
daily with milk by priests expressly appointed for this purpose,
who, calling on the names of the gods, utter a solemn lamenta-
tion, wherefore the island can only be approached by the
priests; and the most solemn oath taken by the inhabitants
of the Thebaid, is to swear by Osiris who lies buried in
Phile.

Associated with Osiris was Isis; she attended upon him as
judge of the dead, in which character she was regarded as the
greatest of the Egyptian goddesses. Osiris, Isis, and their son,
Horus, formed the triad worshipped at Philae. Isis was said to
be the protector of her brother, and his royal consort or sister.
In this quality she answered in the regions of the dead to
Proserpine, the wife of Pluto, among the Greeks. Isis was
metaphorically considered to be the earth, or feminine part of
nature, or matter, in reference to the creative action of Deity.
Horus, answering to the Greek Apollo, was the avenger of his
father, Osiris, after his being put to death by Typhon, whom he
is represented as overcoming in the form of a snake. The
same idea also existed in the Greek, Scandinavian, and Indian
mythology, and, like the story of Osiris, may have been de-
rived, as Wilkinson suggests, from Bible tradition, or from some
common conception of oriental origin, to shadow forth the
apparent struggle between the good and evil principles which
has so often perplexed philosophy to explain.

Much, it must be confessed, of the beauty of the island vanishes
when we set foot on it, from the circumstance that it has been
covered with a town of mud-built dwellings at a later period, the
ruins .and foundations of which, dull and ugly, grievously dis-
guise the natural surface, and render a peregrination both difﬁ-
cult and toilsome. In this respect how diﬁ‘erent from the green
monastic isle of Innisfallen, perhaps the loveliest retreat that
earth can furnish! Picking, with difﬁculty, our way through
these obstructions, we reached the great temple of Isis, which

 

 

