 

L

ASPECT OF THE NILE VALLEY. 39

The general characteristics of this wonderful Nile valley are
so well known, that it is hardly necessary to dwell at much
length on them. From ‘ far Syene’ and the rocky outposts of
Nubia to the rich level of the Delta, the river preserves much
the same breadth, of half a mile to three quarters, unless where
its course is interrupted by islands, or contracted by rocks.
On either hand is a green stripe of verdure, extending to the
limit of the waters ; beyond is the inimitable desert. At this
season the swollen stream comes down with great rapidity,
and, at the angles of the banks, the current is so powerful as to
require the efforts of all the crew to tow the boat against it.
With the north wind a complete sea gets up. The cultivated
land is adorned principally by groves of palm—the great beauty
of Egypt—sometimes of considerable extent, at others thinly
scattered; here and there too is a dark cluster of sycamores, or a
grove of fragrant acacia, haunted by thousands of birds. The
great thoroughfare all up the river is along its bank, raised
above the level of the inundation, and throwing off here and
there a branch communicating with the villages remote from
the river. There is a melancholy sameness in these wretched
mud villages and small towns, built amid raised mounds of
rubbish and ﬁlth which the wind scatters in clouds into every
cranny of the place—a prominent Egyptian plague, as there is
also in the abject population who inhabit them; the women, in
particular, beautiful for a brief year or two of girlhood, become
tanned by the heat, and dried up by the climate and the hard
toils to which they are subjected, till they become unspeakably
hideous crones, whose aspect inspires a shudder of disgust.

At evening, when the breeze lulled for a while, I went
ashore in a grove of palms, and looked over the verdant level
glowing in the slanting beams of the declining sun. The rich
brown soil in the dry season, and when the river is low,
requires irrigation to maintain its constant fertility. The
method adopted in Lower Egypt is, as represented in the cut,
to sink a pit in the bank, into which the water ﬂows, and it is

 

 

