 

 

 

4 1

_ _...._... ~...t.‘__

 

 

 

 

 

 

covn'r or MEDEENET HABOU. 173

which, with others now ruined, formed the pavilion of the king.
The rooms are surprisingly small, but exceedingly interesting,
for on the walls are sculptures illustrative of the private life of
an Egyptian monarch, who is seated among the favourites of .
his harem, all standing after the oriental fashion; some fan
him, and others present him with ﬂowers. These once royal
apartments were occupied when we passed by a number of
Fellahs from some distant village, with their camels, whose
squalor and misery contrasted strangely with these vestiges of
oriental voluptuousness. The exterior architecture of these
pavilions is very curious, half-eastellated in character, orna-
mented with pointed shields somewhat resembling the Saracen
battlements of later times. The passage under the building
continued in a line to the great temple, which is entered be-
tween two lofty propylea adorned with sculptures of similar
import to those on the pavilion. This gives access to the ﬁrst
great court, lined on either side with columns, half buried in
rubbish, and terminated with another tower, between which we
pass into a second and very splendid area. Some idea of its
style may be formed from what remains of it; but the effect
of the court has been much defaced by the destruction of the
ﬁgures formerly attached to the square Osiride columns and
other portions, as well as by the puny erections of Christian
date, which stand in curious contrast to the decayed grandeur
of the origiml building. A. beautiful corridor of circular
columns runs within the north side: on these the painting
is much preserved, and assists us in forming some idea
of the entire effect of the original design, which is justly
regarded as very elegant, though the scale, after all, is not
of that vastness which seems necessary to give an impressive
effect to Egyptian architecture. The sculptures on the walls
of the court (minutely described by \Vilkinson) carry us back
to the palmy days of their monarchy, and have proved a mine
to the antiquary. There Rameses, borne in royal state, with his
children, attendants, and priests, ofﬁciates before the statues of

 

 

 

