 

 

————-——-__...

 

L————-.—--— -- ram—u

158 FINAL RUIN or minus.

trenched within their temples, every one of which was a castle,
withstood his armies; but the hows, the hatchets, and the
chariots could do little against Greek arms; while the over-
throw of the massive temple walls and the utter ruin of the
city prove how slowly they yielded to greater skill and numbers,
and mark the conqueror’s distrust, lest the temples should again
be so made use of. Perhaps the only time before Thebes had
been stormed after a long siege, was when it ﬁrst fell under the
Persians, and the ruin which marked the footsteps of Cambyses
had never been wholly repaired. But the wanton cruelty of
the foreigners did little mischief when compared with the
unpitying and unforgiving distrust of the native conquerors.
The temples of Tentyra, Apollinopolis, Latopolis, and Philm
show that the massive Egyptian buildings can, when let alone,
withstand the wear of time for thousands of years; but the harder
hand of man works much faster, and the wide acres of Theban
ruins prove alike the greatness of the city and the force with
which it was overthrown: and this is the last time that Egyptian
Thebes is met with in the pages of history. The habitations of
the city were swept away, but the temples, miles apart, form .
the nuclei of different scattered hamlets, whose inhabitants till
the plain, once covered with the living millions of the ancient
city. The Christians under the Greek emperors raised their
puny structures amidst the colossal courts of Medeenet
Habou, but ﬂed on the conquest by the Arabs, whose dege-
nerate successors make their habitation amidst the tombs of
Gomou, and gain a precarious subsistence by riﬂing their con-
tents, and dragging from their repositories the mummied re-
mains of their tenants.

But the ruined temples still stand to call forth the wonder of
the traveller. They have seen the whole portion of time of
which history keeps the reckoning roll before them; they have
seen kingdoms and nations rise and fall—the Babylonians, the
Jews, the Persians, the Greeks, and the Romans. They have
seen the childhood of all that we call ancient, and they still

 

 

 

 

