 

 

 

h— ——_ﬁ—.-

 

ALEXANDRIA. 15

I awoke to a sense of ravening hunger, musty biscuits, Sardines,
and olives, and salt ﬁsh, all too dear even at the low price of
sixpence per day, were the only viands to be obtained; for in
conﬁding ignorance of the state of the ship’s stores, I had neg-
lected to lay in any stock of provisions.

And now again we were safe on board, and gliding out of the
harbour. Domes and terraces, ramparts and quays, ﬂew by.
The fort of St. Angelo with its solitary centinel, and the meteor
ﬂag of England waving from its battlements, succeeded, and
then again the open sea, all sparkling and quivering with
the warm reﬂected light. As we stretched away, the walls and
towers massed into a glorious picture, bathed in that same rosy
haze, now dying away, until all faded into indistinctness, and
nothing met the eye but the stars sleeping in the pale azure, and
the long track of phosphoric splendour, in which the glow-
worms of the deep lay telling of the vagrant keel that had dis-
turbed their slumbers. Our voyage through this summer sea
was brief and prosperous. The sky grew warmer and warmer
as we neared the coast of Africa, tinged, as it were, with a reﬂec-
tion of the Libyan desert; a soft purple hue, rather than the
deep blue of Italy. 0n the fourth day appeared a long,
low, yellow line of sand, scarcely visible above the azure sea,
with a few distant palm trees, like black specks, and camels
pacing slowly along the shore, announcing that we were on the
threshold of those lands of which we have so often dreamed;
the hope of visiting which was perhaps, at one time, too ex-

' travagant for a moment’s indulgence.

Yet the ﬁrst view of Alexandria, full as it is of historical
reminiscences, is, in all other respects, more unimposing than
that of any other city on the Mediterranean. A long line of
windmills on a sandy ridge, the new light-house and palace
built by the present pasha, and the tall column of Dioclesian,
the only visible wreck of the ancient city—such are the few
prominent objects which rise above the dead level of the sea.
The entrance to the harbour is difﬁcult, but its spacious area is

¢__.__.___.
—— -— n-h— —- rt -_.__-_ _171—_————‘ ‘— ‘___.

 

 

 

 

