 

 

 

 

100 nmrnrs AND ITS HIsroar.

such a number of these monuments, most probably erected suc-
cessively on a given spot, seems of itself to argue an immense
antiquity ; but, as Mr. Gliddon well remarks, “the gross amount
of cartouches (or names of sovereigns) must be known before
valid opinions can be expressed as to the era of Memes,”—
still oscillating between the 86th and 58th century, B. c.—if
Menes indeed can be proved ever to have had any real ex-
istence.

As we stand upon this hoary summit, we seem to look back
on one hand into the night of immeasurable antiquity, and on
the other forward into the written history of the world. On the
alluvium below was slowly developed that civilization, that
“wisdom of the Egyptians,” which descended as a heritage to
other nations, and which has inﬂuenced our own times. There
is no spot on earth so venerable as the plain of Memphis, as
there are no monuments like the pyramids. Could we have
stood on the same spot three or four thousand years ago, what a
scene would have spread out before us! Stretching for miles
and miles along the raised edge of the desert, we should have
beheld these sixty mausolea of the Memphite sovereigns over-
looking their magniﬁcent capital with its gorgeous temples and
palaces extending to the Nile ; its crowded suburbs, the ferry
at Rhoda, distant Heliopolis with its obelisk, glittering in the
sun, and in the distance the verdant land of Goshen, extending
to the outskirts of the boundless desert of the Exodus.

Over what a large portion of the world’s history extend the
‘annals of Memphis! On its pyramids, then fresh in all their
original perfection, Abraham may have gazed with wonder
upon his migration from the wild pasturages of Canaan. Hither
probably was Joseph brought as a slave, and rose to be the
minister of Pharaoh ; and here may have taken place the scene
of his making himself known to his brethren. Here Moises may
'have been consigned to the Nile in his ark of bulrushes, and
hence he may have led the Israelites into the wilderness. Mem-
phis was long the capital of Lower Egypt, till, as Thebes arose to

v

 

