 

 

THEORY or na. Lzsrsms. 99

names of their founders, are proved to have been a succession
of royal mausolea,—-forming the most sublime N ecropolis in the
world. The size of each different pyramid is supposed to bear
relation to the length of the reign of its builder, being com-
menced with the delving of a tomb in the rock for him at his
accession, over which a fresh layer of stones was added every year
until his decease, when the monument was ﬁnished and closed
up. Taking the number of these Memphite sovereigns and the
average length of their reigns, the gradual construction of the
pyramids would therefore, it is presumed, extend over a period,
in round numbers, of some sixteen hundred years! Imagin-
ation is left to conceive the antecedent period required for
the slow formation of the alluvial valley of the Nile until
it became ﬁt for human habitation, whether it was ﬁrst peo-
pled by an indigenous race, or by an Asiatic immigration,
already bringing with them from their Asiatic birth-place the
elements of civilization, or whether they grew up on the spot,
and the long, long ages that might have elapsed, and the pro-
gress that must have been made, before monuments so wonder-
ful could have been erected.

Such is the latest theory, we believe, of the construction and
import of the pyramids. At the risk, however, of irreverence
towards the learned authorities by whom it is propounded, we
would remark, that it appears inconsistent with the construc-
tion of the great pyramid of Cheops, since the existence of a
series of interior passages and chambers, and even of air
passages communicating with the exterior, seems to argue a
regular design for the construction of the entire monument.
We are utterly at a loss to conceive how their interior passages
and chambers could have been formed gradually, as upon
this theory they must have been, during the accumulation of a
mass of masonry, the ultimate extent of which depended on the
contingency of the monarch’s life. And if this objection be
fatal to the theory, what becomes of the very pretty system of
chronology erected upon it? To be sure, the mere existence of

 

 

