 

 

 

20 scene IN ms scum

after another rushed up-stairs, and tried the handle of the door
in quest of a dormitory for himself, but to no purpose. When
the hubbub had subsided, I got up to depart, but on turning
the door handle, found that some one had fastened me in.
How to get out was the question—bells there were none—and
I went to the window to watch for somebody, who, pendven-
ture, would come up to release me. Meanwhile a most amus-
ing scene was going on in the square below. Some twenty or
thirty donkey-boys had wedged in the hotel door to pounce
upon the new comers as they emerged, all dressed and ready
to start on a ramble to the lions of Alexandria. As they suc-
cessively came forth, both ladies and gentlemen, a gmeral rush
was made upon them, their toes were trodden on, and their
coats and gowns nearly torn off their backs in the scramble
for their possession; one or two ladies being pulled down by
rival boys from the asses upon which they had mounted, to the
no small detriment of their dress and delicacy. The battle
now raged—the clamour was deafening—the Englishmen’s
blood was up; they struck out ﬁercely with ﬁsts and sticks,
. but when menaced with a knock-down blow, the Alexandrian
boy has a knack of thrusting up the head of his donkey to
receive the shock, while he dodges behind, which is rather
discouraging to an assailant. As one was driven back another
ﬁlled his place. My tears were running down with laughter
at the hopeless predicament of the travellers, and I was wonder-
ing how they would ever contrive to get out, when I was
startled by an apparition which instantly changed the state of
aﬁ'airs. A tall gaunt ﬁgure, more than six feet high, leaped
from a side shop, with a tremendous yell, into the midst of the
belligerents. He was armed with a leathern thong, (which,
by the way, every Egyptian traveller should procure,) very
thick, and even longer than his own long body—this he
grasped ﬁrmly by the middle, and plied right and left with
such amazing address and vigour, that neither boy nor beast
could stand it for a moment. The rout was instantaneous, and

 

