 

 

EL asnaar KAITBAY. 71

passing his advanced guards, marched directly upon Cairo by
the plain of Heliopolis. Here the ﬁnal encounter took place,
the Memlooks, so often victorious, were routed, and their
fugitive leader was overtaken and brought back to Cairo, where
he was hanged like a common malefactor upon the Bab
Zooayleh. Hencéforth the Memlook aristocracy subsisted only
as dependants upon the Porte, but they still maintained their
hereditary prowess, till the strength of their brilliant cavalry
was broken against the French squares at the battle of the
Pyramids. Finally extinguished by Mehemet Ali, they have
left but a romantic name in history, and these beautiful tombs
fast mouldering to irretrievable ruin.

Among the largest and most beautiful is that of El
Ashraf Aboo-l-Nusr Kaitbay e Zaheree, the nineteenth sultan
of the dynasty of the Circassian Memlook kings, who died and
was buried there in 1496, A. n.’ To this, as to the other tombs,
a mosque has been attached, with various appendages, but
these establishments are, I believe, ruined, and abandoned to
poor Arab families and a solitary Sheik or two, who hover
like ghosts about these splendid and mouldering foundations;
and the whole neighbourhood seems a resort of wandering
Arabs, and of a rude and half savage class of the population,
who quarrel ﬁercely for the fewr piastres of the occasional
visitor. The style of all the tombs is much the same, consist-
. ing of a square building, pierced with slender windows, and
surmounted by domes, a peculiarity wanting to our Gothic
architecture. Nothing can exceed the exquisite ' proportion of
many of these, and the whole wealth of invention seems
lavished on the fanciful net-work of arabesque tracery with
which they are covered, of which each tomb displays a different
pattern. The extraordinary variety of geometrical combination
in Saracenic architecture, is one of its peculiar characteristics.
Less sombre and imposing than the Gothic, it surpasses it in
symmetry and grace. The ﬁnest tomb is perhaps this of Sultan

" Wilkinson.

 

 

