 

 

DANGER FROM ROBBERS. 137

of which was very far superior to that of any other I had ever
tasted. '

We drew up to the bank this evening, in a wild spot on the
western side, where we found another boat moored, and a num-
ber of men on shore by a large ﬁre: they had been quarrying
among the mountains on the opposite side, but considered it
unsafe to remain there at night, owing to a band of robbers
who were said to occupy the country thence to Keneh, and
after committing depredations both by land and water, retreat
among the fastnesses of the Arabian chain. I had heard so
many reports from the boatmen of the insecurity of particular
places, hitherto without any conﬁrmation, that I was disposed
to treat this also as a ﬁction, but subsequent information at
Keneh attested the truth of these reports. It was currently be-
lieved that the governor of the place was in league with the
brigands, and shared the plunder. We ﬁred two or three
rounds to assure any who might cross the river of a warm re-
ception, and for the ﬁrst time on the river felt some slight ap-
prehension of an attack. The men were all armed with
formidable sticks about six feet long, and a good watch was
kept, but our rest was undisturbed. Subsequently I was told
at Keneh that they never attacked a boat with the Frank ﬂag,
so that by day there was no danger to be apprehended. This
incident, occurring in a country so safe as Egypt, rather sur-
prised us, but it was regarded as an exception, and the
governor, who was suspected of connivance, has since been
removed from his post.

Advancing to the southward, there is a very perceptible dif-
ference in the appearance of the people, they grow darker and
heavier in look, have less of the genuine Arab, and appear to
be a mixed race, though perhaps the increasing heat of the
climate alone may account for this peculiarity.

A voyage up the Nile without the sight of a crocodile must
appear strangely incomplete, since there is hardly a book of
travel that does not abound in feats of marksmanship at the

x.

 

 

