 

 

~‘ﬂ—

A DEAD CALM. 33

pressure of the Etesian wind, which, at this season of the
inundation, by a wonderful provision of nature, blows steadily
from the north, thus alone enabling vessels to stem the
powerful current of the rising Nile. I had embarked on that
ancient and sacred river, renewing before my eyes its majestic
current, diffusing the same blessings to its rich valley as it had
done in the days when Egypt was a mighty kingdom, when
Thebes and Memphis and the pyramids arose upon its borders.
The rich fans of the plume-like palms on the banks were
painted on the warm glow of the westward horizon, the level
valley with its wealth of production spread away in dusky
haze, but the breeze brought off from the shore its odorous
musky fragrance, lamps twinkled in the cottages, and cast their
reﬂections into the glassy stream—the noise and babble of the
Fellahs, and sounds of the Darrabuka, or Egyptian drum,
came oﬂ‘ and died away as we sailed past the villages on the
bank. The boat, with her broad sails and her long wake
whitening in the moon, and her Arab crew, lying upon deck,
chanting their peculiar and plaintive songs, ﬂew rapidly along
through those historic waters. I sat up to a late hour, so
delightful was my ﬁrst impression of the patriarch of rivers.
But on the following morning the scene was wholly changed.
On awaking, we were close to the alluvial chocolate-coloured
bank, the rich deposit of countless inundations, and the crew
on shore were engaged in the toilsome task of tracking or
hauling the boat, (a process represented on the ancient sculp-
tures,) to the music of a monotonous chant, which they seemed
scarce able to utter. There was not a breath of air, and the
warm, soft, cloudless sky was reﬂected back from the glassy
surface of the broad yellow river. The heat was close and
overpowering. Hours like these, of which the traveller on the
Nile must make up his mind to not a few, are indeed awfully
wearisome. It is too hot to go on shore and walk through the
deep dust of the unsheltered bank, and cooped up and panting
for breath in the narrow cabin of your boat, you seem doomed,
D

 

 

 

 

