 

 

THE SHADOOF. 135

should resemble each other only in one damning particular—
how unaccountable the infatuation, that, under circumstances so
Opposite, the citizens of a free republic can tolerate the worst
institutions of the old world; that patriots and Christians, ay,
even ministers of that religion of mercy, should be so blind to
the guilt and cruelty of this system, as even to plead for it the
sanction of Divine prescription!

A few miles back from Girgeh are the ruins of Abydos, or
This, already alluded to in the historical introduction. There
are the remains of two temples, partly buried in sand and rub-
bish. They were built by Osirei and his son Rameses the Great.
In one of these, sacred to Osiris, was found the famous
tablet of Abydos, containing a series of the names of the royal
predecessors of Rameses, agreeing perfectly with' a similar one
at Thebes. Unfortunately the portion containing the earlier
kings was broken off. This important fragment is now in
the British Museum.

Between Girgeh and Keneh the scenery is in many places
exceedingly ﬁne, especially in the neighbourhood of Kasr e
Sayd, where the Dom or Theban palm begins to blend its
peculiar fan-like foliage with that hearing the date, and to add
to the enchanting richness of the vegetation. The fertile level
plain, covered with luxuriant crops of Indian com, the ﬁnest
imaginable, with sugar cane, and a variety of leguminous
herbs, among which the nutritious and palatable bamyeh is
conspicuous at this season, delights the eye with its perpetual
greenness, as the boat glides past the luxuriant and scented banks
at even-tide. How many beautiful scenes of this kind recur
as we advance! and how blessed indeed would be this land, if
the race who cultivate it enjoyed the advantages of civilization ;
if the comfortable homes of freemen replaced the .mud hovels
and squalid misery of the poor Fellahs! The mode of irriga-
tion adOpted in Upper Egypt differs from that seen below Cairo,
the water-wheels being replaced by the Shadoof. In general
there is but one man with a lever, but in this instance the power

 

 

