 

 

42 ANIMALS or 1mm.

ature being rather warm, but by degrees one comes to relish it
beyond any other, and to drink more of it than is prudent.
The ordinary mode of cooling it is in jars of porous clay called
‘ Goollehs,’ the best of which are made at Keneh in Upper
Egypt. Among the brackish Springs of the desert, Esau, had
he but once tasted of the Nile, would far rather have bartered
his birthright for a draught of its delicious beverage than
for his mess of lentile pottage.

The animals chieﬂy seen on the river’s banks, are the camel,
ass, and buﬂ'alo. The camel, which in the level valley of the
Nile attains unusual size and stoutness of limb, is now the
common beast of burden, both for agricultural and other pur-
poses. It is singular, says Gliddon, that the introduction of
this animal should have been comparative] y recent. But it
must doubtless have always existed in the interior of Asia, it
ﬁgured upon the sculptures of Nineveh, although not represent-
ed on any Egyptian monuments of the pyramidal period. The
horse, though not common on the monuments, appears in use with
chariots after the twelfth dynasty. The Egyptian buﬁ'alo is of
uncouth, unwieldy appearance, dingy black in colour, the neck
set lower than the back, and the head furnished with large ﬂat
horns thrown back like those of goats or sheep. Their aspect
is sullen and ferocious, but, unless startled, they are perfectly
gentle. You see them advancing along the bank with a small
boy perched on their hump. They yield a considerable
quantity of milk, and subsist on the coarse rushy grass which
covers the dry bank of the river. Wilkinson observes, that he
has met with no representation of the buffalo among the monu-
ments, but from its being indigenous in Abyssinia and com-
mon in the country, he infers that it was not unknown to the
ancient Egyptians. Whole herds of these animals are seen, as
before stated, in the heat of noon, so immersed in the river,
that little but their noses and the tops of their heads are visible ;
sometimes they slide fairly into it, and have to be rescued by
the owner, who, plunging in, directs their heads against the

 

 

