 

 

BLIND 3306.135. 53

appearance is majestic, but they will not bear close inspection.
Their early beauty soon gives place to positive ugliness.
Moreover, they tattoo their hands, arms, faces, and bosoms, and
blacken, as indeed do all the women, their eye-lashes with
‘ kohl.’ Their dress is a long simple wrapper of blue, or a
species of plaid, very loosely hanging about them, and open at
the bosom. It is often ludicrous enough, says Olin, to observe
the studied care with which a girl covers her face with a frag-
ment of a veil, or the corners of her tattered robe, while with
the other she raises her drapery in the freest possible manner.
Nothing seems to be regarded as a breach of modesty if the
face be covered. To display that is regarded as an open proof
of the abandonment of virtue.

Our blind beggar is but a type of a class unhappily very
numerous in Egypt. I have remarked that this class of men in
the East have often a nobleness and resignation stamped upon
their features which is quite touching; the closing of the
visual organs with which they commune with the external
world, appear, as it were, to quicken their spiritual sense, and
they seem as though they felt nearer to God, and more imme-
diately dependent on his providence, than others. They are,
if totally blind, generally led about by some poor boy, and in
Constantinople they are always seated at the gates of the
mosques. They are treated with great respect by the Mussul-
men, who, with that reverent spirit that runs through all their
actions, regard every visitation of providence as entitling its
object to their peculiar sympathy. Throughout Egypt the
number of blind or half blind persons is positively startling.
Various causes have been adduced for this; the continual
glare of the sun, the subtle impalpable dust, which we have
already enumerated as one of the prominent plagues of Egypt,
and, as others think, the transition from the dry air to the moist
vapours of the Nile. To these causes may be added the total
want of precaution or common cleanliness. And as if the
number of the blind from natural causes were insufﬁcient, the

 

 

 

