 

 

DESTRUCTION OF THE LIBRARY. 27

made their repasta ; and public rooms, where they gave instruc-
tion to the youth who crowded from all parts of the world to
hear their lectures. This museum, a unique establishment in
literary history, was founded by Ptolemy Soter. And With
regard to medicine, mathematics, mechanics, and astronomy,
the shades of the greatest modern reformers of Europe would
surely inform us that science cannot look back too gratefully
to the memory of Alexandria." The celebrated library of the
Ptolemies’ collection, ultimately amounted to seven hundred
thousand volumes; four hundred thousand were contained in
the library of this museum, the remaining three hundred
thousand in that attached to the temple of Serapissl' The
former was accidentally destroyed in the war of Julius Cassar
with the Alexandrians; and the remaining collection, after
various losses and transmutations, till it is supposed ultimately
to have largely consisted rather of works of theological con-
troversy than of literature and science, met its fate at the hands
of the fanatic caliph Omar, at the time of the Mohammedan
conquest, who ordered its destruction, on the ground that if the
contents of the books were agreeable to the word of God, i. e.
the Koran, there could be no need of them, and if the contrary,
they ought not to exist; and they were accordingly used for
heating the four thousand baths of the great city of the West,
as it is styled by Omar in his letter to the caliph, which then
contained, besides four thousand palaces, four hundred theatres
or places of amusement, twelve thousand shops for the sale of
vegetables, and forty thousand tributary Jews.

Rapidly, indeed, must the trade and wealth of Alexandria
have declined under the combined and ruinous disadvantages
of the Moslem rule, and the new course of the Indian trade,
until just before the time of Mehemet Ali, when it was a
miserable place of a few thousand inhabitants, cut off from the
valley of the Nile by the ruin of the ancient canal. Under his

‘ Campbell's Lectures. f Wilkinson.

 

 

