 

88 THE JEWISH CEMETERY.

thing of this may be derived from their former degraded posi-
tion, yet not altogether so; :md from all that has been said of
them, their moral characteristics are answerable to this forbid-
ding exterior; with the worst oriental vices, they are without
its redeeming virtues and high qualities, and they may be
compared to the Levantine Greeks for subtlety and intrigue,
without possessing any of their mercurial liveliness and genius.

In this vicinity was also the Egyptian Babylon, on an
eminence, and the site of the Arab cities which were ﬁnally
supplanted by Cairo. And there is a spot which I also visited
once with Mr. Lieder, between this neighbourhood and the
sterile crags of Mokattam—the burial-ground of the Jews. This
is a dreary place beyond the Arab cemetery to the west of the
citadel, quite in the open desert, and from its humble slabs is
a wide view over the Nile and the site of Memphis, with the
whole range of pyramids from Sakhara to Ghizeh, the quarries
of Toura, and the mouth of that wild valley which conducts
to the shores of the Red Sea near Suez. Among the many
theories respecting the Israelites, is that which supposes that
they laboured on the pyramids, and there is an inscription
among the quarrim at Toura, in the Sinaitic character, which,
as it has been averred, records their hard bondage under their
Egyptian taskmasters ; while some also, supposing that Mem-
phis, and not Zoan, was the seat of the Pharaoh alluded to in
Scripture, make the Israelites to have retreated from this
vicinity by the valley in question to the shores of the Red Sea.
This appears no less probable, than the generally received
Opinion that their departure took place from the lower Delta;
and so deeply interesting is the whole subject, that it casts an
inﬂuence over the mind when visiting this desolate desert.
cemetery of this wonderful people. Still nearer to the city are
some exquisile beautiful Saracenic tombs, like slender towers, ‘
quite unique in design, which are well worthy of attention.
Here too is the tomb of Mehemet Ali and his family, externally
among the most humble of these endless and beautiful monu-

 

 

