 

 

 

162 THE TOMBS or THE KINGS.

that the most colossal of all the ruins, that of Karnak, is on the
eastern bank, together with Luxor; yet though the ruins on
the western bank are inferior in scale, this deﬁciency is more
than made up in interest by the tombs, and the general im-
pressiveness of the scene of desolation around them. The
goddess Athor, the Venus of the Egyptians, whose magniﬁcent
temple at Dendera we have so lately noticed, presided over the
western quarter of Thebes, and from her this suburb derived its
name of Pathyris, belonging to Athor. She was ﬁguratively
represented in the paintings as a spotted cow, living behind the
western mountain of Thebes, from which, ﬁgured in this shape,
she is seen rising as the planet Venus. It was into her arms that
the sun, as he sunk behind the mountain, was poetically supposed
to be received, and in this character answered also to Night.’

I arranged to visit the tombs of the kings the following day,
and spent the evening in riding about the environs of the
landing. The ﬁrst object of interest that meets the eye, is
the small temple of old Koorneh, of the time of Rameses II.,
of which I have presented no illustration, as, though interest-
ing to the antiquary, it is not among the most remarkable or
colossal of the monuments of Thebes.

The craggy range of the western mountains which overhang
the desolate city were ruddy with the reﬂected hues of a glori-
ous dawn; but the river and plain were still cool and shadowy,
when I stepped from our boat on shore, and found our guide
and donkeys waiting for us under the old sycamore. We
mounted, and hastened forward at a gallop; but, leaving the
green border of the Nile, were soon brought up by some yawn-
ing mummy-holes and obscure pits, often of great depth, with
which the whole plain is covered, and picked our way through
this intricate and dreary chaos of sepulchral excavations with
greater caution. At length we had passed them, and entered
upon a valley running up into the heart of the mountains, quite
in the rear of Thebes, and remote from any connexion with its

' Wilkinson.

 

 

