 

 

ALEXANDRIA—HOTELS. 19

whose thundering blows upon its crupper, make you some-
what uneasy for the safety of your own ribs. Through unpaved
streets, of half Oriental, half European aspect, in the lowest
style of both countries, and which have been evidently run up
in haste among the mud hovels of the poorer Arabs and the
ruins of former buildings, you ﬂy past shops kept by Greeks,
Maltese, Italians, French, and sometimes, though rarely, by
English; who appear, in keeping with the town, dressed in
a half European, half Asiatic style, very dirty and very gro-
tesque, till, ﬁnally, you emerge into the great square, an open,
unpaved expanse, where are situated the different consulates,
hotels, and cafes, and the comptoirs of the most wealthy mer-
chants. This is of course the modern part of the city, and its
appearance is striking. The buildings are all in. the French
and Italian style, spacious and handsome. The Greek and
French consulates, in particular, have extensive facades, but the
principal ornament will undoubtedly be found in a new and
beautiful church, of original and happy design, about to be
built for the English Protestants, and which is intended to
occupy a conspicuous part of the square.

Some years ago there was no tolerable hotel at Alexandria:
the two now established are large, rambling, and comfortless
places, though, all things considered, surprisingly good for
Egypt. The passage of Indian travellers has given rise to
them, and is of course their chief support; and a singular
scene of hustle and confusion occurs, when tide meets tide, and
comers and goers mingle for a few brief hours, in this half-way
house between London and Calcutta; where fresh rosy faces
from the one, full of eager curiosity and anticipation, are seen
side by side with the languid, exhausted, apathetic exiles, re-
turning from the other.

Shortly after I took up my abode at “Ray’s,” the mail ar-
rived from Bombay, and as it was high noon, and very hot,
and a great scramble for rooms was going on, I had locked
myself quietly into my chamber “ au second,” to read. One

 

 

