 

 

THE wumnn GLOBE. 189

stands erect and lonely among the wrecks around with a
peculiarly noble effect, beyond perhaps that of any single
monument in Thebes; and in passing under it our ideas are
raised to a height of wonder, and prepared for the colossal
scale and vast extent of the ﬁeld of ruins to which it gives access.
Its sculptures, however, are not to be compared with those of an
earlier date. The majestic cornice is ornamented with a ﬁne
specimen of the “ Winged Globe,” so universal in Egypt, a
beautiful emblem, to adopt 'Gliddon’s description, of Providence
overshadowing the land of the Nile. “The central disk of the
sun, allegorical of physical and celestial light, and surmounted
by the ram’s thorn, sym‘bolical of Amun Knum-‘— divine in-
telligence, is ﬂanked by the wings of Maut—the beneﬁcent
mother, or more probably of the Scarahaaus, or sacred beetle,
symbol of Kheper—the Creator m. From the central solar
disk depend two crowned royal asps, symbolical of sovereignty,
--—the red crown of terrestrial, and the white of celestial do-
minion, and the cruces ansatm, or ‘taus,’ hanging by their necks,
typifying eternity. . In the literal Hebrew text, Isaiah apostro-
phizes Egypt, (ch.-xviii. 1,) ‘ Ho ! land of the winged (Globe).’ ”

The small temple in the rear of this gate will not long detain
us from the more imposing ruins of the Great Temple. To this
immense pile, the work of successive ages, there are, of course,
diﬂ'erent entrances; but the principal one, and that by which
the extent and symmetry of the plan is best understood, is by
the colossal propylon facing the river: and, looking across to-
wards the temple at Gomou, a line of sphynxes also led up a
rising ground to the vast propy'lon, the largest in Egypt, which,
like two mighty towers of rude masonry, formed a grand and
impressive approach. From its summit, or the top of the walls
which connect it with the great court, a view is obtained, which,
in its full extent, must baﬂle all desoription,—there is nothing
like it even in Thebes,-—not one alone, but a perfect wilderness of
temples, courts, .propylma, gateways, and obelisks, extends around.
Some, buried under the ruin of ages, yawn from beneath like

 

 

