 

 

4........__. _......‘..._..-~_!

--—- an..—a—-——n—__..—---——-—¢.__._ a---- g; ,r._.....--

 

 

 

L—ﬁ—H w... ........ __
n. t -—

-—--.—c——--p.—-—- T '

THE KANGIA. 125

scribed my little vessel, or my mode of life. The kangia is
about thirty feet long, with two masts and large latine sails, very
picturesque in appearance, and admirably well adapted to make
the most of the wind ; there is but one objection to them, they
require constant attention and nice management, without which
one runs the greatest risk of capsizing by the sudden squalls
which come down from the mountains. The after-part of the
vessel is occupied by a double cabin with a narrow space be-
tween, the principal one opening on the deck, and prolonged
as it were by means of an open verandah, under which it was
pleasant to sit during the great heat of the day. There is a
bench on each side the main cabin, which has also windows
with green blinds which can be opened and shut at pleasure.
One of these benches was furnished with a mattress, which
served by day for a sofa, and by night, with a little addition, as
a bed ; the other was partly occupied by books, &c., and served
also as a table. Now that the bugs were routed, all was per-
fectly clean; every morning, both deck and cabin were
thoroughly washed, an operation absolutely essential to comfort.
The after-cabin and passage served as a deposit for stores and a
washing-room? The breezes on the river are so refreshing,
that I slept far better in my little cabin than at Cairo. I was
always up and dressed at a very early hour, often before sun-
rise; and nothing can be more delicious than these morning
experiences on the broad bosom of the river, gliding alongside
the shore in the freshness and serenity of dawn. One delight
of this mode of travel is, that you are always at home with
nature 3—for weeks one never misses seeing the sun rise and set
in the same unrivalled splendour. I was familiar with moon-
light and starlight on the broad and glassy stream, and though,
travelling alone, the hours often hung heavy on my hands, I
had others beyond all price. As the wind was often light in
the forenoon, it afforded an opportunity for taking a walk,

' It was much infested with rats; the best prevention is to hang a light

 

 

f
l

up in the cabin, which generally frightens them away. J

‘ ~Oh_--_—-———_-Hw—.1——A--ﬁm-_ -.--——.-._

