 

 

156 VISIT or nscarzsus.

vast buildings. When he travelled in Upper Egypt, Thebes,
though still a populous city, was more thought of by the anti-
quary than by the statesman. Its wealth, however, was still
great; and when, under the just government of Ptolemy, it
was no longer necessary for the priests to hide their treasures,
it was found that the temﬂes still held the very large sum of
three hundred talents of gold and two thousand three hundred
talents of silver, or above one million sterling, which had
escaped the plundering hands of the Persian satraps.

The Memnonium, the great palace of Bameses II., was then
standing; and though it has been plundered by the Persians,
the building itself was unhurt. Its massive walls had scarcely
felt the wear of the centuries which had rolled over them.
Hecateus measured its rooms, its court-yards, and its avenue
of sphynxes ; and by his measurements we can now distinguish
its ruins from those of the other palaces of Thebes. One of
its rooms, perhaps after the days of its builder, had been ﬁtted
up for a library, and held the histories and records of the
priests; but the golden zodiac or circle, on which were en-
graved the days of the year, with the' stars which were seen to
rise at sun-rise and set at sun-set, by which each day was
known, had been taken away by Cambyses. Hecatseus also
saw the three other palace-temples of Thebes, which we now
call by the names of the villages in which they stand, namely,
of Luxor, of Kamak, and of Medeenet Habou.

The Theban priests showed Hecateus the large wooden
mummy-cases of their predecessors, standing upright round the
walls of the temple, to the number of three hundred and forty-
ﬁve; and, when the Greek traveller boasted that he was the
sixteenth in descent from Jupiter, they told him that those three
hundred and forty-ﬁve priests had ruled Thebes in succession
from father and son, each a mortal the son of a mortal, and
that it was that number of generations since the gods Osiris and
Horns had reigned in Egypt. Nations, like families, have
usually been fond of claiming to be descended from a long line

 

 

