 

 

AN ADVENTURE AT Damascus. 81

Emir,” with his imposing cortége, the same precautions were
needful; and thus it may be supposed that it was not without
some twinging apprehensions that I prepared to make my
solitary entry in the obnoxious European costume.

. My visit however “had fallen” on good and not on “ evil
times,” upon an era of change indeed remarkable and moment-
ous, not only for its immediate but for its far stretching con-
sequences, and-distinguished for the ﬁrst insertion into the old
Mussulman fabric of the wedge of European civilization. The
Turkish power was broken; the Egyptian ﬂag waved upon the
walls of Damascus, planted there, too, far less by the brute
valour of the troops of Mehemet Ali, than by the tactics of
those French generals (an ominous circumstance, and well
deserving the closest attention of our statesmen) who had
originally trained and who in reality commanded them.

When the rapid victories of Ibrahim Pasha had made him
master of Syria, and given him the sudden possession of
Damascus, and when he came to establish there his impartial
system of administration, by which the Christians could no
more (as by immemorial usage had been their lot) be trampled
upon by the haughty Mussulmen, it was deemed a ﬁt season to
establish, if possible, an English consulate in so important a
station. After much opposition, Mr. Farren at length entered
upon this post with every mark of honour from the local
authorities, and by his conciliatory manners soon contrived to
render himself extremely popular among the higher classes.
Still, the state of Syria was uncertain and convulsed ; a reverse
of the pasha’s success would bring back into ﬁerce reaction all
the Mussulman intolerance; and sudden reprisals on the Chris-
tians were apprehended, in whose fate Europeans would natur-
ally be involved. They were thus in a constant state of jeopardy ;
and although the consul had a town house, he lived in the
suburb of Salaheyih, whence in case of a popular outbreak he
might easily make good his escape to the mountains. The day
after my arrival we visited the city. As our horses clattered

G

 

 

