 

 

SUN-DRIED muons. 179

of the crude or sun-dried bricks, which are so common at Thebes,
of which the external enclosures of the precincts of the tem-
ples were formed, as well as the greater part of the private
buildings of the city. These are peculiarly interesting, as being
the same alluded to in the Bible, at the making of which the
captive Israelites toiled in Lower Egypt, and, as some have
imagined, even at Thebes, from certain representations of the
process of making them, which are painted in the tombs. They
are made of clay combined with chopped straw, as mentioned
in the Scripture account. It is supposed by Wilkinson that this
making of bricks was a royal monopoly, from the oval names
of the different kings which are stamped upon them. F riable
as they are, and easily broken with a hammer, they perfectly
retain, after a lapse' of three thousand years, their original
form and stamp. Several of them are preserved in the British
Museum. They are about 16 inches long, 7 wide, and 5 thick.

From the Memnonium I proceeded towards the Vocal Mem-
non, but the progress of the inundation had so saturated the
surrounding soil that I was unable to reach its base. This
statue, and its fellow, standing austere and solemn in the midst
of the lone expanse, appear more weather-beaten and scarred by
external injury and by the hand of time than any other monu-
ments in this vast ﬁeld of ruin. Their lineaments are half
eﬁ'aced, and their gigantic limbs fractured and blackened. It
has been often remarked that Egyptian ruins are in general far
from impressing us with a sense of their immense antiquity,
owing to the absence of the grey hues and weather stains,
and that overgrowth of shrouding vegetation, which give so
venerable an air to those of Europe, whose age is com-
paratively but of yesterday. In this dry and cloudless clime,
the temples seem, as it has been well expressed, “ to whiten and
burnish under the sun of the desert ;” and so perfect is often the
stone-work, so sharp the chiselling, and brilliant the colours of
ediﬁces raised three thousand years ago, that one might suppose
that they were but yesterday hurled from perfection into ruin.

 

 

