 

 

36 scans UPON THE alvsa.

green valley and its yellow desert boundary, like life and
death in startling juxtaposition and contrast,—-the sandy shoals
covered with pelicans or ibises of brilliant white plumage,
large ﬂights of wild fowls and of pigeons from the villages,—the
picturesque boats with. their gay-coloured passengers,— the
men paddling along on rafts of water melons or pottery,—the
little thronged cafés under the deep shade of a grove of syca—
more and palms,—the creaking ‘ Sakias,’ or water-wheels used
for the purpose of irrigation, all form a sort of slow, moving
panorama, which, seen under a brilliant sky, by their lively
novelty, serve to amuse for a while the tedium of our noonday
progress. Though the characteristics of the scene have never
materially changed, the river must have been inﬁnitely more
lively in former times, and the boats innumerable, from the state
vessels of the kings and principal personages, with their high
prows, hieroglyphic inscriptions, banks of oars, and brilliantly
painted and richly ornamented sails, down to the ordinary pass-
age boat for the humbler classes. These sails, unlike the present
triangular ones, were square, and more safe and manageable.
The crowd upon the banks must have been incessant, with
chariots and horsemen. Each village then was grouped around
its elegant temple amidst groves of palm. The extensive villas
of the richer inhabitants, in a style half gay, half grave, with
gardens and vineyards—now unknown to Egypt, studded the
plain, which was, besides, in a far higher state of cultivation
than at the present day. Then there were the costumes of the
difRerent castes, and their inﬁnite variety of avocations, to add
to the life and beauty of the picture in the Pharaonic ages. A
light uncertain breeze sometimes relieved the boatmen from their
laborious tracking, but it was not till afternoon that some real
stormy puﬁ's indicated the approach of the favouring Etesian
breeze. The coming on of the sudden gusts on the Nile is at
ﬁrst very startling and alarming; no action of driving clouds
accompanies the squall, the sky above is perfectly serene, but,
looking across the desert in the direction of the wind, you see

 

 

