 

 

SUN-RISE FROM THE PYRAMID. 97

hence appears insigniﬁcant; the neighbouring group of palm
trees dwindles to a tiny speck.

It was a luxury to look up into the immense arch of the sky,
to which we seemed nearer than to the earth, and here of such
pure unclouded transparency—we might penetrate into the
depths of azure space. Over the eastward mountains, on the
other side the Nile, the dawn was shooting upwards its glorious
radiance through the vast concave, a few thin bars of lustrous
crimson of almost unsuﬁerable brilliancy appeared, and the sun
rose like a ball of intense ﬁre. As it clomb the sky the land-
scape kindled into life; the distant Nile, and the waters of the
inundation, ﬂushed with the growing splendour. The smoke
curled up from the Arab villages, aWaking with all their
noises; the barking of dogs, the shrill babble of F ellahs, and
the lowing of cattle, faintly ascended. to our aery post. But
the only sound that arose from the immense expanse of the
Libyan desert, was the wailing of the winds, as they contend
over its dead surface, and pile it up into shapeless swells and
ridges, wakening a wild and mournful music. From the second
pyramid and that of Mycerinus were cast, by the rising sun,
majestic shadows which seemed to stretch half across the
blanched and desolate expanse, a sublime effect which can be
but faintly imagined by those who have not witnessed it.

There is an immensity in all the elements of this scene, and
in the ideas they excite in the mind. The works of man seem
in their magnitude and eternal durability to contend, as it were,
with those of nature. Every thing is so strange, so vast,
so suggestive of a host of wonderful associations, that there
is, perhaps, no other spot on earth where the mind is more
exalted and awed. More fortunate than many others, owing
to our arrangements, we were quite undisturbed in this con-
templation. Our two F ellahs crouched down half asleep on
the layers of stone below us; and a young Arab girl, who
had climbed after us with a porous water-bottle in the hope
of gleaning a few paras, sat immovable as a'stone upon the top-

H

 

 

