 

 

130 sron'r.

were actually whole and sound, and had not even once been
mended, his joy threatened to overset his reason, and somewhat
peril his neck; for with an outpouring of thanks and blessings,
he stumbled back to the town over the broken ground, with a
dangerous rapidity I should not have supposed him to be capa-
ble of.

In the mountain range opposite Manfaloot are the celebrated
crocodile mummy cases, which have been eXplored with so
much difﬁculty and danger. I had no desire to be half suf-
focated in quest of the sacred animals, and sailed away with a
fair wind, on my upward course to Thebes. In the course of
this evening we brought to, and ‘ took tea’ quietly in a se-
cluded grove of palms in sight of Siout, the capital of Upper
Egypt, and residence of the governor. This is a considerable
town, with handsome mosques ; and the environs are very rich
and pleasing. Behind it and overlooking the valley of the
Nile rises a mountain range, perforated with numerous sepul-
chres, an excursion to which is gratifying, for the sake of the
extensive view. Siout is the resort of the caravans of slaves
from Darfur, who, after being hunted down in their native
country, are brought here across the desert from the great .
oasis, at a considerable loss of life. It has, moreover, a still
more infamous distinction, as being the chief place where the
black guardians of the harem are ﬁtted by a torturing process,
and by the loss of manhood, for their degrading functions.
One shudders with horror at such a concatenation of atrocities,
and at the state of society which demands so many unhappy
victims. It would scarcely be believed, if the degraded state
of Christianity in the East were not so well known, that its
Coptic professors were the agents in this most horrible violation
of humanity.

After a short stay at this place I resumed my course up the
river, the scenery very striking, and the wind unusually favour-
able and strong; so that the whole way to Girgeh we had a
sailing match with the pilgrim boat, which took but very little

 

 

