30 CONTINENTAL H 0 TELS.

BELLINZONA.
HOTEL DE LA VILLE.

Genducted by Mr. ANDREOLI.

A v comfortable Hotel, of the ﬁrst-class, which has recently been censiderably
im rov and refurnished. It is very conveniently situated in the most central part
of he town, and contains every requisite accommodation for visitors. There is a

Table d’Hote, the cuisine being excellent; Warm and cold baths, newspapers

. ; the prices being moderate, and every attention shown to visitors. Horses and

carriages can be obtained, at ﬁxed charges, for the St. Gothard Or St. Bernardino,

 

 

and the Proprietor will be found ready to give all 4 ‘ , infu- ‘4“ ‘ to Tourists.
The Hotel Coupons of Maura. Cook and 801: are accepted here.
BERLIN.

MARKGRAF’S HOTEL DE L’EUROPE.

TAUBENSTRASSE, 16.
Proprietor, 3. Hanson“.

Hotel for families and single gentlemen, situated in the ﬁnest part of the town,
at the place Gunman: Mantra near the Palaces and Museums. A bath house
has been attached to the Hotel. Charges moderate. English and French spoken.
English newspapers, 85c. Cook’s Hotel Coupons accepted.

BERLIN.

TAEPFER’S HOTEL.
OTTO TABPFER, Proprietor.

This Hotel, which was newly established in the spring of 1372, is situated next
to the Railway Stations to Hanover, Hamburg, and Stettin. The traveller will ﬁnd
every comfort, combined with the most civil attendance and moderate charges.

BEX.
GRAND HOTEL DES BAINS.

Proprietor, Mr. O. HIBB (late Head-waiter of the Hotel Beau Rivage, Geneva).
This favourite Hotel, thoroughly renovated and newly refurnished, surrounded
by a ﬁne garden, well laid out grounds and shaded walks, will now be Open all the

ear. Rooms overlooking the mOuntains. Large dining and drawing rooms.
' , smoking, and billiard rooms. Baths on t e estabhshment. Pension from

5 francs and upwards. Carriages. Omnibus at the station.
' Cook’s Gouge»: accepted.

BOLOGNA.
GRAND HOTEL BRUN.

w. WELLER and 00., Proprietors.

First-rate accommodation for families and 1e gentlemen; magniﬁcent dining
room; conversation room, with pianoforte; ' room, supplied with the Tim
and other principal papers; making room. Moderate charges. Personal Superina

, tendenoe of the Propnetor.
Th Hotel Coupons of Messrs. ﬂee. 0001c and Son accepted here.

 

