MESSRS. T. COOK 85 SON’S TOURS. 9

camp-ﬁre and smoke their narghilies ; and about ten or eleve
o’clock there is quiet in the camp for the night.

TRAVELLING ARRANGEMENTS OF MESSRS.
COOK 84 SON.

The travelling coupons issued by Messrs. COOK 8.: SON are
now so well known and universally used, that it is unnecessary
here to enter into particulars about them. Sufﬁce it to say
that they have been found to be advantageous to all European
travellers, and in the East, where travelling is under greater
diﬂﬁculties in every respect, their system is indispensable to
those who are unable to grapple with the obstacles presented by
not being acquainted with Oriental languages, and with having
to deal with dragomans and others, whose demands are in-
variably exorbitant.

In Palestine, more than anywhere else in the East, it is
desirable, for the comfort and pleasure of a trip, that all
arrangements respecting contracts with dragomans, tents, and
equipments, backsheesh, Bedouin escorts for unsafe districts,
charges for visiting mosques and sacred places, etc., should be
undertaken on behalf of the traveller, and this Messrs. T. COOK
and SON are prepared to do. They have made such arrangements
in the East, that the most inexperienced travellers may avail them-
selves of them without fear of not being able to get on as well
as in the beaten continental routes. They issue tickets for
individuals, or for small or large parties, and every season they
organize parties who travel under the personal superintendence
of one of their admirable staﬁ‘ of conductors.

It will be only necessary here to indicate some of the
arrangements which they have successfully carried out in past
seasons, and will be improved as each fresh season ensues.
Every year they publish a little book (price 6d.), giving details
of their Personally-Conducted, and Independent Eastern tours,
and to this the traveller is referred, as the cost of a tour varies
according to circumstances, and general arrangements are liable
to variation.

