32 . CONTINENTAL HOTELS.

FLORENCE.,
GRAND HOTELITEUROPE.

SANTA TRINITA SQUARE.

This convenient Hotel, under the ndt management of the Landlord, Mr. P_. del
Brno, is situated in the central and ﬁnest t of the town, near Sta. Tnmta
Bridge, Post Ofﬁce, the Uﬁzzi and the Pitti cries. Families or Gentlemen will
ﬁnd very comfortable accommodation, with the most moderate charges. Good
Table d Hote. Salons for Ladies and Gentlemen. Arrangements made with
Families if dedred. Foreign languages are spoken.

The holders of Cook and Son’s Hotel Coupon will always have a cordial welcome.

FRANKFORT.
GRAND HOTEL DU NOBD.

Preprietor, Hr. m 030883.

A well-conducted, commodious, and comfortable Establishment, where Visitors
will receive every attention; the nearest to the Railway Station. The charges are
reasonable, the attendance good, and every desire shown to assist Visitors desirous
of malnng excursions in the environs, or of inspecting the various sights of the
ancient city, including the Cathedral, where the German Emperors were owned,
the Romer, the Villa of the Rothschﬂd family, the Palmengarden, the Zoological
Garden. and the Ariadnoum. English, French, and Italian spoken. English, French,
and German pers. Much frequented by American and English Travellers. Over
One Hundred ado-acme. .

The Hofel Coupons of Hem-e. Cook and Son are aecepfed here.

 

—.-_.

 

 

GRENOBLE.
HOTEL MONNET.
Proprietor, L. TBILLBRT.

Messrs. Cook’s Coupons are accepted. here.

 

HEIDELBERG.

2
HOTEL IWIIJEUROPE.
Proprietor, Mr. HABPEH 002733.

This splendid and admirably conducted Establishment in the ﬁnest situation of
the town, near the Railroad and Post Oﬂice, commands, ’by its 0 ' position.
the best view of the Promenade, the Castle, and the Mountains; and o era, by its
superior arrangements, the comfort of the apartments, and careful and civil attend-
ance, all desirable attractions to Travellers. Ladies’ sitting room and well-furnished
reading room. Hot and cold baths, 850. The charges are moderate, and
desirous of visiting the environs will receive every attention. Omnibus meetsevery

' The Hotel Coupon: of Messrs. Cook and Son are accepted here. '

INTERLACKEN.
GRAND HOTEL RITSCHARD.

Conducted by M. ED. BITSG HARD.

This splendid ﬁrst-class Establishment, situated in the centre of the Kurort.
contains 350 well-furnished rooms, and a beautiful dining-room for 250 persons.
Iadies’ saloon, conversation, reading, and billiard rooms, 40 balconies, with splendid
view of the Jungfrau and Alps. A newly-erected comfortable bathin establishment.
With douches ; large shady garden. The greatest attention is psi to the cooking

and service. .
The Hotel Coupon: of Heuﬂ. Cool: and Son accepted here.

 

 

