3 INTRODUCTORY.

allowed to do justice to it. The menu includes tea, coffee, and
milk, with boiled eggs or omelette; then follows a course of hot
chicken, and another of cutlets. After breakfast, every cup and
plate is washed and packed in large cases. Every thing needed
for the journey has to be carried on mules—tents, poles, cords ;
stores for the four or ﬁve weeks’ provisions; plate, glass,
knives and forks, tent furniture, the cooks’ stoves and fuel,
the treasure chest — all has to be packed on the backs of
mules, and carried over some of the most rugged and difﬁcult
roads in the world. The alacrity with which the work of
packing and unpacking is done will astonish the traveller the
ﬁrst time he sees it, and will be a continual source of amuse-
ment day by day.

After breakfast the start for the day’s journey is made;
and, each day’s programme having been announced the day
before, travellers generally spend any leisure time in reading
up the places they will visit. At some convenient and inter-
esting spot, previously ﬁxed upon, luncheon is served; this has
been specially conveyed on mules, and consists of hard-boiled
eggs, cold chicken and lamb, sardines, bread and cheese, and
a plentiful supply of oranges.

An hour and a half to two hours is generally allowed for
luncheon time which can also include a “ nap ” if needed.

About six or seven in the evening the journeying for the
day is over, and every day the traveller has the unexpected but
extreme satisfaction of ﬁnding tents all pitched, and the cooks
busy at work beside the glowing camp-ﬁre. There is time to
have a leisurely “ wash-up,” to unpack the portmanteau, and
then the dinner-bell rings. The table of the saloon is generally
gay with ﬂowers gathered on route, and the general aspect of
the social board is such as might be expected in the neighbour-
hood of the Italian Lakes, but not in the wilds of Syria. The
bill of fare usually comprises soup, ﬁsh, mutton, or lamb, goose
or wild boar, chicken or turkey, a capital pudding, and dessert.

After dinner travellers amuse themselves according to the
bent of their inclinations; the muleteers gather round the

