UP THE NILE BY STEAM» 5

 

since the few grottoes and chapels can just as well be seen from aboard ;
two hours more bring us to the ruins of Kom-Ombo, where the Steamer
stops for the night.

20133183318 DAY.

Assouan, the limit of Upper Egypt and an important town, is
, reached in the forenoon. As soon as the Steamer stops, a swarm of
ﬁlibians come to oﬁer ostrich feathers, eggs, and other articles, 'for
e.
Opposite to Assouan is the Island Elephantine and its Nilometer,
which we visit at once. The remainder of that day is devoted to
Assouan and its bazaars.

PIHIIHTE DAY.

After an early breakfast, donkeys and camels, at choice, ‘are wait-
ing to carry us through the town and bazaar of Assouan and the
cemetery, to the desert road leading towards Philip. About a mile
from the town, on the hills to the left, are the celebrated granite
quarries where the obelisks were procured, and where one may be
seen partly cut out of the rock. This visit is better made now. Con-
tinuing our road afterwards, in about one hour we arrive at the river,
where a boat is waiting to convey us to Philaa. After exploring this
enchanting place in every part, and lunching in the small temple
amid the pillars overlooking the Nile, passen ers bound to Wadi-Halfa
cross the river here, and go on board the ' nd Cataract Steamer,
which is anchored in front of the temple on the opposite side. If we
do not intend to go further up the Nile, we get into the boat or
dahabeah, and, instead of crossing the river back to the place where
we embarked coming from Assouan, ﬂoat down the river and stop a
little above the Cataract. Landing here, we reach in a few minutes
an eminence whence the ﬁnest view of the Cataract is obtained, and
the Nubian boys are seen dexterously shooting the Cataract on logs of
wood. We embark again, and our boat proceeds across the river
through small rapids to the village Mahattah. We then mount our
donkeys and camels and return to Assouan by another road, striking
to the left of the village, and coasting the Nile, all the way down
enj oyin the most magniﬁcent and varied views of the wild scenery.
As a rage, guides and donkey boys do not like to take this way back,
but the interest it offers is so great that on no account ought it to be
abandoned.

[Passengers wishing to shoot the Cataract can do so—at their own
expense and risk—by making arran ements the day before. The
charge for a Dahabeah for a party to s oot the Cataract is from £8 to

£12 sterling]
BHTBBN’I‘B DAY.

Early in the morning the steamer starts on its return journey,
calling at Esneh, if necessary, and arriving the same day at Luxor,
where it stops for the night. .

