UP THE NILE BY STEAM. 3

 

SIXTH DAY.

If necessary, the ship is coaled at Soohﬁg, and Girgeh is gene-
rally reached in the evening: there is nothing of interest in this
place, one of the dirtiest on t e Nile. Girgeh. or Bellianah, a small
town about ten miles higher up, is the startiloig-point for visiting
Abydos. This visit, however, is better postpon and made on the
return journey, startin from Bellianah. These ruins are so grand
and magniﬁcent, thag they cannot lose any of their charm and
novelty even after Karnak has been seen.

SEVII'TE DAY.

Leaving the visit to Abydos for the return journey, we reach
Keneh towards ev ' , and if still early enough, this important
place may be visited ore the night. The best porous jugs and
gargoulets for ﬁltering the Nile water are made here ; Keneh is also
celebrated for its dates, and was once noted for its dancing girls. The
latter, it appears, have now removed to Luxor, a place of greater
attraction to visitors.

IIGETE DAY.

In the morning passengers are conveyed in boats across the river,
where donkeys are waiting to take us to the Temple of Denderah.
about an hour’s ride. This is the ﬁrst monument of the kind met
with, and the impression it produces is never to be forgotten. It is
rather puzzling at ﬁrst to ﬁnd one’s way through the halls, and
through the heaps of ruins surrounding the walls, to discover any
given site. However, a little practice will soon facilitate research.“I

If the visit to Denderah is ﬁnished by noon, the boat may reach
Luxor the same evening, and anchor opposite the Temple of Luxor.
The portioo of the tem Is is occupied by the oﬁice of Mustapha
Aga, the well-known an frequently mentioned English Consul. He
speaks English ﬂuently, is always willing and ready to oblige, and at
once sends his servant on board to welcome new arrivals, and invite
them to his house, where coﬁee is always ready, and Fantasies may be
organized.

NINTH DAY.

At Lux_or. The ﬁrst day is generally devoted to a visit to the
Kings’ Tombs. Starting early in the morning across the stream by
boat, the donkeys having already been conveyed across by the same
means, in about an hour we arrive at the Temple-palace of Koorneh,
and after having examined it, continue our journey thro h the deso-
late valley, “ Bab-el-Molook,” to the Kings’ Tombs. y two or

 

" M. Mariette-Bay’s “ Itinerary to Upper Egypt,” which has just been
translated into English, gives a very correct plan of Denderah, and gives

full and accurate information concerning the various monuments on the
Nile.

