6 _ UP THE NILE BY STEAM.

snvnnnnm DAY.

Descend from Luxor to Bellianeh, where donkeys have been tele-
graphed for from Luxor.

EIGHTIBI’II DAY.

The excursion to Abydos is now made—a good two hours’ ride,
through rich ﬁelds; at about twelve o’clock we are again on board and
the journey is manned. ,

NHITBDHB AID TWENTIBTE DAYS.

Continue the voyage without stopping, except at such places as
were not visited according to Programme during the journey ; the
Steagers only stop to coal, or for provisions, according to require-
men .

 

GENIIAD ODBIIVATIOHI.

The fare of £47 sterling, before mentioned, covers everything;
living, guides, donkeys, also saddles (English saddles for ladies), and
boats to cross the river when necessary, as well as the boat for Philaa
and back; also candles to light the caves. gratuities to servants and
crew, and the regular fees to donkey-boys; but who could satisfy and
silence the never-ending craving for backsheesh 9; Every passenger.
therefore, ought to have some coppers to give away occasionally. It
is wonderful to see how ingenious these beg ars are ; those at Thebes.
especially, have acquired the greatest per ection; they all speak a
little English, and try to move your heart by the most lamentable
stories. They have either lost their father or mother, and ham no
place to sleep in; or they show you a broken vessel, crying bitterly
that they dare not return home for fear of being beaten.

 

SECTION II.

230‘ THE FIRST TO THE SECOND DATABAOY.

The Khedivie Administration having placed a steamer on the
Upper Nile, to ply between Philm and Wadi-Halfa, we inaugurated
this new service ' last season. The experiment having proved a suc-
cess, the Administration agreed to supply a larger and more comfort-
able steamer than the one with which we worked that service last
year. The voyage to Wadi-Halfa and back may be accom lished in
twelve days, of which four and a half are employed in sight-seeing
ashore, and, after the return journey, passengers will have to make

.L

 

 

