2 UP THE NILE BY STEAM.

 

visited the site where Memphis stood, to witness an important fair, held
every Wednesday, at a village on our way. We get back at about
noon to the steamer, which starts immediately. In the afternoon we
gees on our right the curtailed Pyramid, called “ El-Kedab,” or False

yramid. Towards evening we come to Wasta, a village of no im-
portance, where the steamer generally stops for the night, unless the
night be clear and moonlit, in which case the steamer continues its
course for some time.

THIRD DAY.

We start early in the morning, in order to pass, before nightfall,
the mountain " Gebel-el-Dayr,” on the top of which stands a Coptic
convent, whose inmates plunge into the river as soon as a boat is in
sight, and, swimming towards it, with the greatest dexterity catch
hold of the small boat in tow, and climb on deck to ask for backslasesb.
Ladies had better retire to the saloon during this visit. In the after-
noon we pass in succession the splendid sugar factories of Bibé-
Feshne, Maghagha, Ben-in-Zaar, Samaloot, etc.

Towards evening Minieh is reached; it contains a ﬁne
belonging to the Viceroy, who generally spends a few weeks here in
the winter, and a most extensive sugar manufactory, employing
about 2000 people. A visit to this establishment will well repay the
trouble, and every attention is shown to visitors. The works generally
commence in the beginning of January, and when in activity, the
evening is the usual time to admit visitors.

30173!!! DAY.

In two hours the boat reaches Beni-Hassan, another halting-place
for sight-seeing. Swarms of beggars, and miserable donkeys without
saddles or bridles—the worst all along the Nile—await the arrival of
the steamer. The Rock Tombs of Beni-Hassan are reached in half
an hour. The northern grottoes are high up on a hill to the left, and
the Speos Artemedos straight on in a valley eastward; both ought
to be visited. Towards noon the excursion is ended, and the steamer
starts again. A few hours’ course brings us in sight of the moun-
tain “ Gebel-aboo-faydah,” and towards evening Manfaloot, a little
town of some importance, is reached.

PINE DAY.

Some time before mid-day we arrive at Sioot, or Assioot, the
residence of a Pasha, the Inspector-General to Upper Egypt, of which
Assioot is the capital. The remainder of the day is devoted to a visit
to the large bazaar, and the hills behind the town, which aﬁord a
splendid view of the Nile Valley. A very important market is held
at Assioot. Before the abolition of slavery it was the principal slave
market; but, minus this peculiarity, it oﬁers still, at the present time,
interesting features for the observer.

 

