34. - CONTINENTAL HOTELS.

MARTIGNY.
HO TE L CLE RC.

Conducted by It. OLBBO.

A new and commodious Hotel, pleasantly situated, facing the Rhone Valley, of
which it commands a magniﬁcent view. Visitors here receive the most liberal
attention, every care being taken to ensure their comfort. The accommodation is
good and the prices reasonable. The Hotel forms a capital starting point for
excursions to the Chateau la Batia, the Forclaz, the Gietroz Glacier, the Hospice of
the Great St. Bernard, and, where necessary. guides and mules can be obtained, at
moderate charges. The Tickets of Harm. Cook and Son for guides and males are
accepted here, also Hes-rs. Cook and 8093’: Hotel Coupons.

MAYENCE.
HOTEL DE HOLLANDE.

Proprietor, Hr. FERDINAND BUDINGBN.

This well-known and favourite Hotel is situated opposite the landing place of the
Rhine steamers, and near the Railway Station, and is one of the best on the Rhine
for the accommodation of English Families and Tourists. Hr. Budingen, the Pro-
prietor, has newly fm nished the H otel throughout, and hopes. by unremitting atten-
tion and moderate prices, tomerit the tronsge of English Travellers. The Hotel
commands a line view of the Rhine, an will be found very convenient for Visitors.

The Hotel Coupons of Harm. Cook and Son accepted hers.

MENDRISIO.

HOTEL MENDRISIO AND PENSION.
Proprietor, B. PASTA.

, This ﬁrst-class Hotel is situated in the centre of a large garden at the footcf
Mount Generoso. 1200 feet above the sea. The ﬁne situation between Lakes Como,
Lugano, and Varese, the beauty of the country, and the dry and temperate climate,
make a so nurn between the lakes and the mountain very agreeable.

The ilk-and-Graps Cure. Moderate prices. Arrangements for the winter.
Oonveyances to Mount Generoso. Omnibus to the station.

———.-—-~

MENTON E.

HOTEL DE TURIN.

Proprietor, Ions. P. team.

This Hotel is situated in the centre of the city, far from the noise of the In.
with a southern aspect, and surrounded by magniﬁcent gardens; it is one of the
prettiest Hotels in Mentone. Ithas been entirely renovated by thenewproprietcr.

 

.. MENTONE.
HOTEL GRANDE BRETAGNE.

conducted by H. DAZIANO.

' This well-situated and comfortable ﬁrst-class Hotel is recommended to English

families igar its accommﬁogliaiiiﬁiil,1 cleanlhisililesshand English comfort. boo
' 33...] room supp Eng an Foreign' ramps. 11, piano, all!
music; biﬁiard £00m, with an English table; smoking ropoem. 3-5;} the In.
Cold and hot baths.
The Hotel coupon of Hans. Time. Cool and Son accepfdhro.

