UP THE NILE BY STEAM. 7

 

the Upper Nile steamer their hotel for two or three extra days. wait-
mg the arrival of the Lower Nile steamer at Assouan to take them
back to Cairo. These few days will be found anything but unpleasant
by those who. delight in a soft climate, and admire the beauties of
nature. Varied scenes may be enjoyed every day, either by goin in
a boat around the Island, or down the river through the number ess
rapids WhJCh precede the Cataracts, or by riding to the neighbouring
villages, and the granite hills which border the different camel paths
towards Assouan. Were it only as a resting-place, Philm would still
be found dehghtful. Although navigation on the Upper Nile is quite
as easy and secure, if not easier than that on the Lower Nile, it is
desirable to allow three days’ margin in case of any unforeseen delay
above the First Cataract.

 

DAILY ITINERARY.

2138'! DAY.

.We are at Phila, ﬁve miles from Assouan. Now we have left the
conﬁnes of Egypt proper, and have entered Nubia. The steamer by
which we continue our voy e, is waiting our arrival; our baggage
has been transferred from s other steamer. The starting takes
place soon after we have got on board.

An hour-and-a-half’s course brings us to Debod, or Dabtd, a small
village on the west side of the river. Here is a ruin, in a ood state of
preservation, of a temple commenced by the Ethi0pian ing, Ashar-
Amun. The steamer stops here for the night, and, according to the
time of arrival, the excursion is made the same day or the following

mornmg.
3'00" DAY.

The distances between the places of interest on the Upper Nile are
very short. and, with a few exceptions, they all lie within a few
minutes from the steamer, so that although ample time is allowed for
sight-seeing, several may be visited in the same day.

In two hours we reach Kardash. or Gertassee, ﬁfteen miles from
Debod, which possesses the remnant of a temple and a quarry.

In a few hours more we pass the narrow part of the Nile called
“ Bab-el-Kalabsheh,” or Strait of Kalabsheh. For a distance of four
or ﬁve miles the granite mountains enclose the river on either side,
oﬂering at every curve varied views of the most grand and wild
scenery. We get into the broad stream again, and Kalabsheh is soon
reached. The steamer steps here four hours, and passengers visit the
ruins, which are of some size and beauty, and consist of the remains
of two temples; one, the largest temple in Nubia, must have been,

 

