UP THE NILE BY STEAM. 9

reed and palm leaves. It contains also a temple which may be
visited, altho h it is not in a good state of preservation.

The same y brings us to Ibrim, or Ibreem, ﬁfteen miles from
Derr. In addition to two little temples or tombs, cut out in the
rock, there is a castle built by the Romans, whence a ﬁne view is to
be had of the Nile and the surrounding hills.

SIXTH DAY.

Arrive at Ipsambool, or Aboo-Simbel (32 miles). This monument
is the greatest attraction Nubia has to offer to the antiquarian stu-
dent. It is hewn in the solid rock, and is rendered specially imposing
by four gigantic ﬁgures of Rameses 11., each 66 feet high. The
temple is partly choked with sand, and somewhat difﬁcult of access,
but the interior well repays the exertion. It is divided into four
compartments, and is 185 feet deep. The paintings and sculptures
exceed in beauty and grandeur any which the tourist has hitherto
seen on the Nile. The smaller temple, 84 feet in depth, is dedicated
to Athor; the facade is ornamented with six colossal statues of
Rameses, his wife, and children. A whole day is devoted to the
examination of these temples.

SEVENTH DAY.

Arrive at Wédy-Halfah (40 miles from Aboo-Simbel, and about
210 miles from Philaa), the terminal point of the voyage. The
Second Cataract is 7 or 8 miles further south, and consists of rapids,
which, extending for about 5 miles, thoroughly impede the naviga-
tion of the river; indeed, for nearly 100 miles the bed of the river is a
succession of sunken rocks. A good view of the Second Cataract and
the surrounding country is obtained by ascending the cliﬂ called
Aboo-Seer, and to aﬁord the Opportunity of doing so the steamer
remains at Wédy-Halfah a whole day before returning.

man-rm DAY.

The excursion to Aboo-Seer is better made very early in the morn-
ing, as it is quite two hours’ ride on the opposite bank of the river,
where donkeys have already been passed by ferry-boat in readiness
for us.

NINTH, TENTH, AND ELEVENTH DAYS.

Begin the return journey, which is continued without stoppages of
importance.

Arrive at Philaa in the evening of the eleventh day, or in the
morning of the twelfth.

TWELI'TE DAY.
Visit to the Cataract in a boat, and the remaining two days to be

spent at leisure, until we eﬁect our change on the down river steamer
at Assouan, and continue to Cairo as per First Cataract- Itinerary.

