10 UP THE NILE BY STEAM.

 

RETURN VOYAGE. '

When on the down journey the boat stops in any place which is
not marked in the itinerary as a regular stopping-place, or touches
twice at the same station, passengers who want donkeys to visit these
places a second time must pay for the donkeys themselves; the same
applies to night excursions, visiting Karnak, or any other place, by
moonlight, or going to Fantasias.

This three weeks’ excursion on the Nile, and life on board a ship,
is generally quite long enough for anyone, and it is with great delight
that the view of the citadel and minarets of Cairo is hailed, A gen-
tleman passenger last season expressed his feelings very properly in
saying that, to do all the work and sight-seein up the Nile, and then
to ﬂoat idly down, was just like reading a hig y interesting book, and
when ﬁnished, turning its leaves once more leisurely over, and linger-
ing with delight on the most beautiful passages, have a last glimpse
at them, and be very glad to have done with it.

The captains and crews are, of course, all natives, and belong to
the re r navy; discipline, however, is not very strict on board. nor
have t e captains, who only speak Arabic, any authority over their
passengers, which is sometimes greatly to be regretted. They are.
however, all very modest and obliging men, and very much afraid
of complaints being made against them on return; for this reason,
towards the end of the tour they manage to get a certiﬁcate signed by
all the passengers, expressing their satisfaction. If such a team’-
monial cannot be produced, or complaints are made against them, they
are ﬁned, and part of their pay, which is already poor enough, is
withheld.

The doctors on board the steamers were formerly all natives, but
since last season, according to a decision of the Khedive, European
plllijysicians belonging to the Sanitary Staff accompany all passenger
s ps. '

Should any passenger desire to return to Cairo a day or two sooner.
he can be put down at any of the railway stations between Roda and
Ghizeh; but as there is only one train a day, he must be careful not
to miss it, or he might go without bed and food.

The best course is not to interfere nor propose any change what-
ever in this itinerary based on experience. Some people will , do so,
and thus cause disorder and sometimes displeasure.

 

 

