8 UP THE NILE BY STEAM.

 

when perfect, a magniﬁcent pile. In some chambers to which access
can be gained, are paintings of the highest ﬁnish, in colours as vivid
as on the day on which they were executed. The smaller temple.
called “ Bayt-el-Welly,” or “ House of the Saint,” lies against a rocky
hill to the right, and is partly cut out of the rock. Although difﬁcult
of access, it is worth while to attempt the ascent, as the temple con-
tains excellent paintings, and the sculptures, recording the battles of
Rameses, are perfect.

THIRD DAY.

We pass and visit successively Dendoor, twelve miles from Kalab-
sheh, and Kirscheh ten miles further, which have cavern temples of
some magnitude. -

The same day brings us to Dakkeh, where there is a temple sup-
posed to have been built by the Ethiopian King, Ergamun; a part of
it is in a very good state of preservation. The sculptures and hiero-
glyphics are extremely good, and in admirable condition.

-The steamer proceeds for some time yet, and possibly reaches
Maharraka, nine miles from Dakkeh; here is a small temple, of which
but two rows of columns remain entire.

- POUR“ DAY.

Twenty miles). Arrive at Saboa, or Wady-Sab6ah, “the Valley
of t e Lions.” It has little to indicate its former splendour. The
Temple of Rameses II. is nearly buried in the sand. Two statues,
however, remain in sight, which may induce a short visit.

Arrive at Korcsko, twelve miles further, and about 100 miles from
Philm. .It is from here' that the great high road stretches across the
Desert to Shendy and Sennaar. Most of the caravans for Khartoom
start from Korosko. Behind the village is a peak called “ Awes-el-
Guarany,” the top of ,which is held sacred by the natives, and is a.
point of pilgrimage, as being the tomb of the saint from whom the
mountain derives its name. The steamer remains at Korosko ﬁve
hours, to enable the passengers to accomplish the ascent of this peak,
a rather difﬁcult task, over a ath full of volcanic remains. The j our-
ney will repay the fati e, the view from that spot being splendid,
commanding on one sigeu the Nile Valley, and on the other the desert
road winding its course amid rocky hills, and close to the village and
the road itself numberless caravans lying at rest.

FIFTH DAY.

Step at A’mada, about eight miles from Korosko, and there visit a
very interesting littletemple.

We then come to Derr, only ﬁve miles further, a large town, the
capital of Lower Nubia. It is famous for its dates. Here the steamer
remains three hours, thus affording ample opportunity for a
walk through the straggling streets of the town, which, like all other
towns and villages in Nubia, consist of mud huts thatched with

l

