26 ADVERTIS EMENTR.

GUIDE [BOOKS

AND.WORKS 0F TRAVEL.

 

The following Books can be oétaz'nea’ at any of the Oﬁcer of
T H 05. COOK &-' SON, or sent Post-free to any part of the Umted
Kingdom :—
/l Cook‘s Tourists' Guide to Holland, Belgium, and
,, the Rhine. Price 25. 6d. With Maps.

“ Messrs. Cook and Son, the well-known tourists' agents, have issued
a ‘ Handbook to Switzerland,’ which is exceedingly well done. The
maps are excellent, the information ample and correct, and
altogether the book is well worth the cost. We have also_ to
acknowledge a similar work on Holland, Belgium, and the Rhine.
to which the above remarks equally apply.”— Church Times.

“The amount of information compressed into so small a compass 5'5
truly surprising ; whilst the maps are elaborate, and the appendix
and index most complete. "—Fzgaro.

Cook’s Tourists’ Guide to Switzerland, showing all
Routes to Paris, with descriptions of the places of interest.
Price 33. 6d. With Maps. New Edition.

N New Guide to Ancient and Modern Rome. BY
SHAKSPERE WOOD. Price 65. With Map. This wo.k
contains full Particulars of the recent Excavations in R )me.

Cook’s Tourists' Guide to Northern Italy. Price 45.

With Maps.

“ Cook’s ‘ Northern Italy' will tell the traveller nearly all he wants to
know of the chief cities of the North, including Florence, the
approaches through the mountain passes from France, Switzerland.
and Austria."—Grap}u'c.

Cook’s Tourists’ Guide to Southern Italy. Price 45.

With Maps.

“ Cook's ‘Tourist Handbook to Southern Italy’ is ano‘her of those
plain, unpretending guides, which, like Cook’s Coupon i. a- e perhaps
best suited for the Inexperienced traveller, but to him will prove
more real service than the more voluminous and exhaustive manuals.
It is as good a handbook as tourists can desire.”-— Graphic.

/_\ Cook’s Handbook to Venice. Price 15. With Plan.

Cook’s Handbook to Florence. Price IS. With Plan.

“ Cook's Handbooks to Florence and Venice form two handy little
volumes full of reliable information.”—7'ohn Ball.

Cook’s Handbook for Egypt, the. Nile, and the
Desert. Price 65. With Five Maps.

Cook’s Handbook for Palestine and Syria. Price
75. 6d. With Four Maps.

 

