1 2 . INTRODUCTORY.

Southampton to Port Said. From Venice, Trieste, Brindisi or
Corfu the Austrian Lloyds, which encompass the circle of the
Levant, and the steamers of which line are most practicable for
Palestine tours. All Messrs. COOK & SON’S personally-con-
ducted parties for long tours go by that line.

On the Syrian Coast, a choice of Austrian, French, Russian
or Egyptian steamers is offered. Thus the entire steamboat
accommodations of Italy, France, and the Levant are offered for
selection, and tickets can also be issued to go through Algiers,
Sicily and other islands of the Mediterranean, in connection
with Palestine, Egypt, the Nile and the Desert.

(2) ROUTES OF PERSONALLY-CONDUCTED TOURS.

FOR LONG TOURS the usual course is to cross the English
Channel by either the Calais route, (the shortest sea passage,)
or by Dieppe, (the shortest distance to Paris). From Paris
direct to Turin by the Mont Cenis Tunnel, and from Turin by
Bologna and Ancona to Brindisi; thence by steamer to Corfu,
and then to Alexandria; after visiting Lower Egypt or going up
the Nile, cross the Land of Goshen to Ismailia, and there take
steamer on Suez Canal for Port Said; from Port Said sail to
Jaffa and land there ; make the tour of the country, as shown
in the Itineraries (pp. I6-—-28), and re-embark on steamer at
Beyrout for Constantinople; thence to Athens, and complete
the tour of the Mediterranean and Adriatic by landing at
Trieste; returning through Italy by Venice, Milan and Turin,
and back to Paris and London.

Whilst this is the general course of the conductors, many
modiﬁcations, extensions or abridgments may be made to suit
the convenience and meet the wishes of the travellers, who may
go through Italy and meet the conductor at Brindisi, or may go
round by Nice, Mentone, etc., and meet the party at any prac-
ticable point. The route from Palestine may be varied by going
direct from Smyrna to Athens, then to Constantinople and up
the Danube to Vienna, or from Trieste; any who choose can go
direct to Vienna.

