ITINERARIES or TOURS. . 23

the I 3th day of actual travel (not including the time spent at
Jerusalem and the Sunday at Nazareth), to attain which the
start from Jerusalem should be not later than Wednesday
mommg.

14TH DAY.—Starting from Banias there is a sharp rise up
the slopes of Hermon until an elevation of about ' 5000 feet
from the sea level is reached. It is a rough way at best, and in
stormy weather the most disagreeable part of the journey, often
blocked with snow and then difﬁcult to discern the outlines of
the track. Eight hours of uninterrupted travel bring the riders
to Kefr Hauwar, a camping ground still too elevated and ex-
posed to the rude blasts from Hermon to be very agreeable. It
is always pleasant to get safely on the way to. the great plain on
which Damascus is located, and the

15TH DAY is generally a pleasant ride of about six hours to
Damascus, where a Sunday and about a couple more days are
required to get a good view of the peculiarities of the city.

16TH, 17TH and 18TH DAYS are spent in traversing the
heights and depths of the Anti-Lebanon, following for a day or
more the course of the Barada (the Abana of Scripture), which
is crossed and recrossed at several points. The ride altogether
is very ﬁne in good weather, and the day’s work not very heavy.
The traveller generally gets into Ba’albek a little after 'mid-day
on the third day from Damascus, and a long afternoon and
evening, and pleasant early morning are consumed amid the
ruins of the famed group of ruined temples, which still present
features of great beauty and strength.

19TH DAY.——A comparatively easy ride of about eight hours
down the fertile valley of the Lebanon brings the traveller to a
convenient camping ground adjacent to the diligence road from
Beyrout to Damascus. It is interesting to deviate a little from
the beaten track, and pass through the Christian village of
Zahleh, where the good effects of Christian education are seen in
the marked decorum of an apparently thriving population.

20TH DAY.——The journey to Beyrout is continued over an
excellent coach road rising to an elevation of 5000 feet, and then

