28 A DVER TI SEMEN TS .
ILLUSTRATEQHE_QQK$_ OF TRAVEL.

By the Rev. saucer. assume, LLB.

American Pictures, drawn with Pen and Pencil.
Profusely Illustrated in the best stvle of Wood]: ngravmfmﬂ by eminent English
and Foreign Artists. 8s. elegantly bound in cloth gilt.

Swiss Pictures, drawn with Pen and Pencil.
gith Tamerous Illustrations by Whymper and others. Imperial 8vo. 80. cloth
egan
“ In this third edition there are so many additions and improvements that this
very beautiful volume is still more attractive and beautiful than ever. ”—Standard.

Italian Pictures, drawn with Pen and Pencil.
Profuselv Illustrated. Imperial Svo. 8c. cloth elegant.
“ The more we turn over the pages of this book, the more we like it.”—-Timss.

Spanish Pictures, drawn with Pen and Pencil.

With Illustrations by Gustave Dore and other eminent artists. Imperial 8vo.
8s. cloth elegant.

ﬁﬁ volume that does credit to the writer and artists °mP10Y0dP—Pau Hall

 

“ Those Holy Fields.” Panama Imusrnrnn 3! P11! um Pattern.
Profusely Illustrated. Imperial 8170. 8a cloth, gilt edges.
“ The author is aided byn 11ng of a hundred wood engravings, all admirably ex-
ecuted from sketches and. p otographs. "—Art Jam-MI.

The Land of the Pharaohs.
Barr-r nu) Sum. Imusraa'rrn nr P]!!! m PIICIL.
Profusely Illustrated with thﬂne Engravings. Imperial 8vo. 8a handsomely
bound, gilt edges.
“ Extremely well written, with admirable illustrations.”——Gmrdian.
“ Full of spirited and highly ﬁnished engra ”.-—Standard
“ A highly interestin description of Egypt Sinai. "—Public Opinion.
“No more charming k ofthis kind isknownto us. ”.—Rocord

By the Rev. JOHN BTOUGETON, DJ).

Thgvl'glomes and Haunts of Luther. d oth S “o 8' cl th
i numerous ’ b are. . . o
’ gilt Ensrmnss r Whynmr an mall

“ It has the advantage of containing' ma leasin shape all the facts about Luther
likely to interest the general reader. ”— 11.304”.

“ The engravings are reallybean tiful."-Litorary Churclmca.

 

“ The Lmuns Hora has always been remarkable for its excellent sketches of
travel 1n foreign lands. ” -Bootsmwn.

THE LEISURE HOUR, SIXPENOE, MONTHLY.
The Volume for 1876, price 73., contains a series of articles with illustrations on
THE BORDER LANDS 0F ISLAM.

Slave and Turks-—Bosnia and Herzegovina.—Montenegro.—Servia.—Albanis.—
Bulgaria—Boumania.

 

LONDON: THE RELIGIOUS TRACT SOCIETY,
56, Paramount. Row, 65, Sr. PAUL’S Csoacnnan, 164, Procwmr.
Manchester: Corporation Street. Brighton: Western Road.
May to had of any Bookseller.

