CONTINENTAL HOTELS. 31

BONN.
GRAND HOTEL ROYAL.

A. BBHBKBIL, Proprietor.

This excellent Hotel, one of the best on the Continent, patronised by H.M. the
Kin Leopold of Belgium. and b the Royal Family of England. is admirably situated
on e banks of the Rhine, an commands the most beautiful view of the Seven
Mountains, facing the landing place of the Rhine Steamers,'and near the Railway
Station. This Hotel contains every comfort, with moderate charges. Ladies’ saloon,
reading, and smoking rooms, as well as warm and cold baths in the Hotel. Large
English garden. advantageous arrangement for winter.

Cook’s Hotel Coupons accepted.

BRUSSELS.

HOTEL DU GRAND .MIROIR.

Proprietor, Mr. DB'I'IENNB RBGNARD.

A well conducted and old established Hotel, situated Run D]: m Mounds], 28,
has an excellent reputation for its general comfort, cleanliness, superior aocommo-r
digital; and very moderate charges. The landlord speaks English, French, Dutch,
a man.

The Hotel Coupons of Messrs. Cook and Son are accepted here.
COBLENCE.

HOTEL DU GEANT.

Proprietors, Messrs. EISBNIANN BROTHERS.

This well-known and favourite ﬁrst-class Hotel is delightfully situated opposite
the Castle of Ehrenbreitstein. It is the nearest to the landing-place of the Steamers,
and commands a most beautiful view of the Rhine and surrounding coun . This
highly recommended Establishment combines superior accommodation wi mode-
rate prices, every attention being displayed towards Visitors, and facilities aiforded
for their visi ‘ the various objects of interest in the neighbourhood.

Hotel Coupons of Messrs. Cook and Son accepted here.

DRESDEN.

GRAND UNION HOTEL.

FEED. BBBAIH-BGHLADITZ, Proprietor. .

This handsome first-rate Hotel, which has been recently built and decorated in
the newest style, was opened on the let April, 1873. It is situated on the Bismarck-
ﬂats, in the English quarter, close to the Central Railway Station of the Leipsic,

resden, Berlin, Munich, and Vienna line Large dining and breakfast saloons,

' , drawing, and reading rooms. A large en. Two superior Tables d’Hcte‘
daily. Pension at moderate prices. Ooolc’s otel Coupons accepted.

 

 

 

-_-_,

 

EINSIEDELN.
HOTEL PEACOCK.

Proprietor, on. era-rm (speaks English).

An old-established and well. known Hotel and Boarding house, opposite the cele-
brated Benedictine Abbey, and beautiful church. The greatest attention is paid to
the cooking, the carries. and cleanliness. Post and telegraph in the house; a rail-
road will be opened this year.

The Hotel Coupons of Home. Cook and Son are taken.

 

