4 UP THE NILE BY STEAM.

 

three of the most interesting need be entered—Behoni’s Tomb, No.
17, and Bruce’s, No. 11. After lunch, which has been brought along
and is taken in the entrance of Tomb No. 6, those who like to walk
can go over the mountain chain, and come down near the Memnoninm
or Ramesium. The others return by the way they came, and a halt is
made at the Memnonium. 0n the way back to Luxor the ruins of
the Temple of Amunoph III. and the sitting Colossi are visited.

TINT! DAY.

At Lnxor. Once more across the river, and partly over the same
ground as the day before, to visit the Temple-palace of Medeenet
Haboo leisurely, and after lunch make an excursion to one of the
most interesting private tombs, No. 35, called “ Dayr-el-Medeenet,”
situated on a hill behind the Memnonium. Close by are the Priests’
Tombs, the largest of which may be visited by those who are not
easily frightened by bats, and rather rough and dangerous passages.

After making a second stay at the Memnonium, the return to
Luxor is eﬁected. If still early, a walk through Luxor and an explora-
tion- of the Temple, mostly hidden by Arab dwellings and stables, will
ﬁnish the day.

II-BVIHTE DAY.

At Luxor. The day will be entirely devoted to Kamak. Lunch
may be taken out, or passengers may return on board to that meal,
the Temple being only about a mile and a half distant. All around
Thebes visitors are constantly pursued by dealers in antiquities,
mostly poor imitations ; and the Consuls themselves, who all deal in
these articles, are not much better than the rest. Be careful not to
offer more than a shilling for an object for which £1 is asked, for you
may be sure to get it! .

TWE LITE DAY.

Starting early from Luxor, Esneh is reached at about 11 a.m., and
after visiting its Temple we continue our journey up stream, arriving
the same evening at Edfou.

1'3!!! ERNIE DAY.

The splendid Temple of Edfou, the most complete and best pre-
served monument in Egypt, and giving the best idea of the early
Egyptian architecture, is kept in custody by a government ofﬁcer, and
is the only place where beggars are not allowed to bother you for
backsheesh ,- but they are the more ravenous when you emerge again
from the stronghold. Half a day is devoted to this place, and it can be
visited either now or on returning: this must depend entirely on the
time of arrival. If the visit is postponed and the Steamer leaves in
the morning early, the quarries of Gebel-el-Silsileh come in view
after about ﬁve hours’ sail. It is hardly worth while to go ashore,

