 

 

APPENDIX. 231

solely intended for the instruction of his military, naval, and
civil servants. A newspaper is printed at another press, in
the Citadel: its paragraphs, however, are seldom on any
other subject than the affairs of the government. It is in
Turkish and Arabic. Sometimes, three numbers of it appear
in a week: at other times, only one is published in amonth.

“ I have candidly stated my opinion, that the policy of Mo-
hammad ’Alee is in several respects erroneous; and that his
people are severely oppressed: but. the circumstances in
which he has been placed oﬁ'er large excuses for his severity.
-To judge of his character fairly, we should compare him with
another Turkish reformer, his late nominal sovereign, the
Sultan Mahmood, In every point of view he has shown his
superiority to the latter ;- and especially in' the discipline of
his forces. While the Sulﬁn was more closely imitating us
in trivial matters (as for instance, in the new military dress
which he introduced), Mohammad ’Adee aimed at, and at-
tained, more important objectss" When we- would estimate
his character by the massacre of the M‘emlooks, a fact most
painful to reﬂect upon, we should admit that he had recourse
to this horrid expedient for a most desirable end.”

'I The dress worn by the-military and some other ofﬁcers of the Pasha of
Egypt is still quite Turkish in every thing but the want of the turban,
which is now worn by few of those persons, and only in winter; the red
cap alone, over which the muslin. or Kesllmeer shawl used always to be
wound. being-at present the regular head-dress. 'llhc trousers are very
full from the waist to alittle below the knee, overhanging apair of tight.
leggings which form part of them. A tight vest (the sleeves of which
are divided from the wrist nearly to the elbow, but generally buttoned
at this part), a girdle, a jacket with hanging, sleeves, socks, and a. pair
of red shoes, complete the outward dress generally worn ; but the jacket
is sometimes made with sleeves like those of the vest above described,
and. the vest without sleeves; and black European shoes are worn by
some persons. The sword is now hung in our manner by a waiabbelt
The dress of'the private soldiers consists of a vest and trousers (the latter
similar to those above described, but notso‘ﬁlll), of a kind. of coarse red
9913, or,in summer-,0! white-cotton,with the girdle, red orphaned shoes

 

