192 APPENDIX.

to say to the Sult£n—“ My master salutes thee, and desires
thee to bring Lord Nelson: bring him before my eyes, that
I may see him; speedily." The boy then said so; and
almost immediately added, “ A messenger is gone, and has
returned, and brought a man, dressed in a black" suit of
European clothes: the man has lost his left arm.” He then
paused for a moment or two; and, looking more intently,
and more closely into the ink, said, “ No, he has not lost his
left am; but it is placed to his breast." This correction
made his description more striking than it had been without
it: since Lord Nelson generally had his empty sleeve at-
tached to the breast of his cost: but it was the right arm that
he had lost. Without saying that I suspected the boy had
made a mistake, I asked the magician whether the objects
appeared in the ink as if actually before the eyes, or as if in
a glass, which makes the right appear left. He answered,
that they appeared as in a mirror. This rendered the boy’s
description faultless.1-

“ The next person I called for was a native of Egypt, who
has been for many years resident in England, where he has
ad0pted our dress; and who had been long conﬁned to his
bed by illness before I embarked for this country: I thought
that his name, one not very uncommon in Egypt, might

'* Dark blue is called. by the modern Egyptians, sawed, which pro-
perly signiﬁes black, and is therefore so translated here.

1- Whenever I desired the boy to call for any person to appear, I paid
particular attention both to the magician and to Darwin. The latter
gave no direction either by word or sign; and indeed he was generally
unacquainted with the personal appearance of the individual called for.
I took care that he had no previous communication with the boys; and
have seen the experiment fail when he could have given directions to
them, or to the magician. In short, it would be diﬂcult to conceive
any precaution which I did not take. It is important to add, that the
dialect of the magician was more intelligible to me than to the boy.
When I understood him perfectly at once, he was sometimes obliged to
vary his words to make the boy comprehend what he said.

 

 

