APPENDIX. 173

to their precedence! Perhaps to these should be added
an inferior order called “ As-hab ed-Darak,” s'. e.
“ watchmen,” or “ overseers.” The members are not
known as such to their inferior, unenlightened fellow-
creatures; and are often invisible to them. This is more
frequently the case with the Kutb, who, though gene-
rally stationed st Mekkeh, on the roof of the Kaabeh, is
never visible there, nor at any of his other favourite sta-
tions or places of resort; yet his voice is often hard at
these places. Whenever he and the saints under his
authority mingle among ordinary men, they are not dis-
tinguished by any digniﬁed appearance, but are always
humbly clad. These, and even inferior saints, are said
to perform astonishing miracles, such as ﬂying in the air,
passing unhurt through ﬁre, swallowing ﬁre, glass, &e.,
walking upon water, transporting themselves in a mo-
ment of time to immense distances, supplying themselves
and others with food in desert places. Their super-
natural power they are supposed to obtain by a life of the
most exalted piety, and especially by constant self-denial,
accompanied with the most implicit reliance upon God,
by the services of good genii, and, as many believe, by
the knowledge and utterance of “ the most great name ”
of God. A miracle performed by a saint is distinguished

‘ It is said that “ the Nukabs so three hundred; the Nnjsln,
sevent ; the Abdﬂ, forty ; the Akhyﬁr, seven; the ’Omnd, four the
Ghds as before mentioned] is one. The Nuxaba'reside in 121- b
H‘b‘dtdteir: SAfil: gemhggtgvgs Kilt; 3331?: 131,811,103?! , in tats:
corners of e earth ; the abode of the Ghés is at Meltlleh. In an aﬂ'air
of need, the Nukaba implore relief for the people; then, the Nujsba;
then, the Abdel; then, the Akhyir; then, the 'Omud', and if their

yer be not answered. the Ghee im lures, and his ra er is answe .”
5-bhﬂree's History, preface.)-— is statement} dynd, rests on the
authority of a famous saint of Baghddd. Aboo Bekr El-Kettanee, who

died at Mekkeh, in the year of the Flight 322. (Mir-6t ez-Zemain,
events of the year above mentioned.)

VOL. III. I

