130 NOTES FOR TRAVELLERS l.\' EGYPT.

\

site of the famous old city of Bubastis,* or Tell Basta.
The chief article of commerce here is cotton. Not far from
Zakazik flows the Fresh-water Canal from Cairo to Suez,
which in many places exactly follows the route of the old
canal which was dug during the XIXth dynasty.

Bubastis, llubastus, or Tell Basta (the I‘ibeseth=“ House
of Fast " of Ezekiel xxx. 1 7), was the capital of the Bubastites
nome in the Delta. and was situated on the eastern side of
the l‘elusiac arm of the Nile. The city was dedicated to the
goddess Bast, the animal sacred to whom was the cat, and
was famous for having given a dynasty of kings (the XXlInd)
to Egypt. To the south of the city were the lands which
l‘sammetichus I. gave to his Ionian and Carian mercenaries.
and on the north side was the canal which Xekau (Necho)
dug between the Nile and the Red Sea. The city was
captured by the Persians 11C. 55:. and the walls, the entire
circuit of which was three miles. were dismantled. Recent
excavations, by M. Naville. have shown beyond doubt that
the place was inhabited during the earliest dynasties, and
that many great kings of Egypt delighted to build temples
there. The following description by Herodotus of the town
and the festival celebrated there will be found of interest :—

"Although other cities in Egypt were carried to a great
height, in my opinion, the greatest mounds were thrown up
about the city of llubastis. in which is a tetnple of llubastis
well worthy of mention; for though other temples may be
larger and more costly, yet none is more pleasing to look at
than this. llubastis. in the Greek language, answers to
Diana. Her sacred precinct is thus situated: all except
the entrance is an island: for two canals from the Nile
extend to it, not mingling with each other. but each reaches

‘ From the hieroglyphic E]: a a [2'1 I‘d-Bail. Coptic llO'TﬁACFf‘:
it was the metropolis of the 18th nome of Lower Egypt, “where the
soul of Isis lived in [the form] of llast."

