ALEXANDRIA. 121

months?“ The SSMA formed a part of the Czesareum, and
contained the bodies of Alexander the Great and the
Ptolemies, his successors. The Theatre, which faced the
island of Antirhodus, the Séma, and the Museum and
Library, all stood in the royal buildings in the Bruchium
quarter of the town, between Lochias and the Heptastadium.
The stone sarcophagus (now in the British Museum, No. 10),
which was thought to have belonged to Alexander the Great,
was made for Nectanebus 1., the ﬁrst king of the XXXth

* “The spirit of Amrou (‘Amr ibn el-‘Asﬂ was more curious and
liberal than that of his brethren, and in his leisure hours the Arabian
chief was pleased with the conversation of John, the last disciple of
Ammonius, and who derived the surname of Pln'lopmzm from his
laborious studies of grammar and philosophy. Emboldened by this
familiar intercourse, Philoponus presumed to solicit a gift, ines'imable
in 111': opinion, contemptible in that of the Barbarians: the royal
library, which alone, among the spoils of Alexandria, had not been
appropriated by the visit and the seal of the conqueror. Amrou was
inclined to gratify the wish of the grammarian, but his rigid integrity
refused to alienate the minutest object without the consent of the
caliph; and the well-known answer of Omar was inspired by the
ignorance of a fanatic. ‘If these writings of the Greeks agree with
the book of God, they are useless and need not be preserved: if they
disagree, they are pernicious and ought to be destroyed.’ The sentence
was executed with blind obedience: the volumes of paper or parch-
ment were distributed to the 4,000 baths of the city; and such was
their incredible multitude that six months were barely sufﬁcient for the
consumption of this precious fuel.” (Gibbon, Decline and Fall,
chap. ii.) The chief authority for this statement is Bar-Hebraeus
(born an. 1226, died at Maraghah in Adharbatjan, jury 30th, 1286),
and it has been repeated by several Arabic writers. Both Gibbon and
Renaudot thought the story incredible, but there is no reason why it
should be. Gibbon appears to have thought that the second Alexan.
drian library was pillaged or destroyed when Theophilus, Patriarch of
Alexandria, destroyed the image of Serapis; there is, however, no
proof that it was, and it seems more probable that it remained com-
paratively unhurt until the arrival of ‘Amr ibn el-‘Asi. See the
additional notes in Gibbon, ed. Smith, Vol. 111., p. 4I9, and V0]. V1,,

p- 338.

