LUXOR (EL—KUsOR) AND THEBES. 291

Seti I., the builder of this hall, set up seventy-nine, and
the remaining fifty-four were set up by Rameses II. It
is thought that this hall was originally roofed over. At
the end of it is the third propylon, which was built by
Amenophis 111., and served as the entrance to the temple
until the time of Rameses I. Between this and the next
pylon is a narrow passage, in the middle of which stood two
obelisks which were set up by Thothmes 1.; the southern
one is still standing, and bears the names of this king, but
the northern one has fallen,* and its fragments show that
Thothmes III. caused his name to be carved on it. At the
southern end of this passage are the remains of a gate built
by Rameses IX. The fourth and ﬁfth pylons were built by
Thothmes I. Between them stood fourteen columns, six of
which were set up by 'l‘hothmes I., and eight by Amenophis
II, and two granite obelisks; one of these still stands.
These obelisks were hewn out of the granite quarry by the
command of Hatshepsetj' the daughter of Thothmes I., and
sister of Thothmes II. and Thothmes III. This able
woman set them up in honour of “father Amen,” and
she relates in the inscriptions on the base of the standing
obelisk that she covered their tops with mm metal, or copper,
that they could be seen from a very great distance, and that
she had them hewn and brought down to Thebes in about
seven months. These obelisks were brought into their .
chamber from the south side, and were 98 and 105 feet high"
respectively; the masonry round their bases is of the time
of Thothmes III. The sixth pylon and the two walls which

* It was standing when Pococke visited Egypt in 1737-1739.

1' “Scarcely had the royal brother and husband of Hashop (522')
closed his eyes, when the proud queen threw aside her woman’s veil,
and appeared in all the splendour of l'haraoh, as a born king. For she
laid aside her woman’s dress, clothed herself in man’s attire, and
adorned herself with the crown and insignia of royalty.” (Brugsch’s
Egypt um/ert/ze [Via/21011:, Vol. 1., p. 349.)

U 2

