52 NOTES FOR TRAVELLERS IN EGYPT.

Decree. The transliteration of the Demotic, according to
Hess (Roman zmz St/ze Ha-m-m, p. 80), is :—j>—[mn
nut/er . . . . . 2m Iz—rz-Itéb’ e72! rétp er—p—ma 71317 er—ubep-gi—n—er
71ml; n-iz-Izuter’, “a prophet, or one of the priests who are
selected for the sanctuary to perform the dressing of the
gods.” The transliteration of the hieroglyphic text is:
[1m Izeier erpzz mi (2/110 (Mu sez‘ej) er lib—717’ dz; rim? er mﬁrez‘
”elem em ruff-sell.

The earliest hieroglyphic inscription is that found on the
stelm of Shera preserved at Gizeh and Oxford ; it dates from
the second dynasty. The oldest hieratic inscription is that
contained in the famous Prisse papyrus which records the
advice of Ptah-hetep to his son. It dates from the XIth or
XIIth dynasty. The demotic writing appears to have
come into use about 11c. goo. Hieroglyphics were used
until the third century after Christ, and hieratic and
demotic for at least a century later. The inscriptions on
the Rosetta and Canopus stelae are written in hieroglyphic,
demotic, and Greek characters. The Egyptians inscribed,
wrote, or painted inscriptions upon almost every kind of
substance, but the material most used by them for
their histories, and religious and other works was papyrus.
Sections from the stem of the papyrus plant were carefully
cut, and the layers were taken off, pressed ﬂat, and several
of them gummed one over the other transversely; thus
almost any length of papyrus for writing upon could be
made. The longest known is the great Harris papyrus,
No. 1; it measures 135 feet by 17 inches. The scribe
wrote upon the papyrus with reeds, and the inks were
principally made of vegetable colours. Black and red are
the commonest colours used, but some papyri are painted
with as many as eleven or thirteen. The scribe’s palette
was a rectangular piece of wood varying from six to thirteen
inches long by two, or two and a half, inches wide. In the
middle was a hollow for holding the reeds, and at one end

