243 NOTES FOR TRAVELLERS IN EGYPT.

usually entered on the eastern side 3 their tops are quite ﬂat.
The interior of a mastaba may be divided into three parts,-
the chamber, the what/5* or place of retreat, and the pit.
The entrance is made through a door in the middle of the
eastern or northern side, and though the interior may be
divided into many chambers, it is usual only to ﬁnd one.
The walls of the interior are sometimes sculptured, and in
the lower part of the chamber, usually facing the east, is a
stele,- the stele alone may be inscribed and the walls un—
sculptured, but no case is known where the walls are
sculptured and the stele blank. A table of offerings is
often found on the ground at the foot of the stele. A little
distance from the chamber, built into the thickness of the
walls, more often to the south than the north, is a high,
narrow place of retreat or habitation, called by the Arabs a
sz'ra’tib. This place was walled up, and the only communi—
cation between it and the chamber was by means of a
narrow hole sufﬁciently large to admit of the entrance of the
hand. One or more statues of the dead man buried in the
mastaba were shut in here, and the small passage is said to
have been made for the escape of the fumes of incense
which was burnt in the chamber. The pit was a square
shaft varying in depth from 40 to 80 feet, sunk usually
in the middle of the larger axis of the mastaba, rather
nearer the north than the south. There was neither ladder
nor staircase, either outside or inside, leading to the funereal
chamber at the bottom of the pit, hence the cofﬁn and the
mummy when once there were inaccessible. This pit was
sunk through the mastaba into the rock beneath. At the
bottom of the pit, on the south side, is an opening into a
passage, about four feet high, which leads obliquely to the
south-east, soon after the passage increases in size in all
directions, and becomes the sarcophagus chamber, which

* A Q‘s}: is, strictly speaking, a lofty, vaulted, subterranean cham-

ber, with a large openingin the north side to admit air in the hot season.

