246 NOTES FOR TRAVELLERS IN EGYPT.

Mausoleum, and was built during the Vth dynasty, about
B.C. 3500. Thi 8:5 qq, was a man who held the dignities
of ruler, royal councillor, superintendent of works, scribe of
the court, conﬁdant of the king, etc. ; he held also priestly
rank as prophet, and was attached to the service of the
pyramids of Abusir. He had sprung from a family of humble
origin, but his abilities were so esteemed by one of the
kings, whose faithful servant he was, that a princess called
Nefer—betep-s was given him to wife, and his children ’l‘hi
and Tamut ranked as princes. Thi held several high ofﬁces

under Kakaa and User-en-Ra ( Nan'llﬁgj

kings of ththh dynasty. The tomb or mastaba of Thi is now
nearly covered with sand, but in ancient days the whole
building was above the level of the ground. The chambers
of the tomb having been carefully cleared, it is possible to
enter them and examine the most beautiful sculptures and
paintings with which the walls are decorated. To describe
these wonderful works of art adequately would require more
space than can be given here,- it must be sufﬁcient to say
that the scenes represent Thi superintending all the various
operations connected with the management of his large
agricultural estates and farmyard, together with illustrations
of his hunting and ﬁshing expeditions.

 

The Necropolis of Sakkarah contains chieﬂy tombs of the
Ancient Empire, that is to say, tombs that were built during
the ﬁrst eleven dynasties; many tombs of a later period are
found there, but they are of less interest and importance,
and in many cases small, but ﬁne, ancient tombs have been
destroyed to make them. As our knowledge of Egyptian
architecture is derived principally from tombs and temples,
a brief description of the most ancient tombs now known
will not be out of place here, the following observations on
them are based upon the excellent articles of M. Mariette
in the [farms A rc/zéo/ogz'gue, S. 2“”, t. xix. p. 8 ff. ’l‘he tombs

