100 NOTES FOR 'I'RAVICLLERS IN EGYPT.

exalted of plumes, beautiful of tiara, exalted of the white
crown ,- the serpent 71141512 and the two urzei are the
(ornaments) of his face; the double crown, helmet and
cap are his decorations in (his) temple. Beautiful of face

he receives the (def crown & , beloved of the south and
—‘1
north is he, he is master of the sec/127' crown y. He receives

the amsu sceptre $, (and is) lord of the. . . . . . and 0f
the whip. Beautiful prince, rising with the white crown 4,

lord of rays, creator of light! The gods give acclamations
to him, and he stretches out his hands to him that loves
him. The ﬂame makes his enemies fall, his eye overthrows
the rebels, it thrusts its copper lance into the sky and
makes the serpent Nak* vomit what it has swallowed.

* Nak is one of the names of Apepi, the demon of mist, cloud, and
night, who was supposed to swallow up the sun daily; he was the
enemy, parexce/lmce, whom the Sun-god Ra was supposed to ﬁght
against and overcome. Apepi was represented under the form of a
serpent with knives stuck in his back M. Compare the following
Extract from the service for his destruction which was recited daily in
the temple ofAmen-Ra, at Thebes: “ Fall down upon thy face, Apepi,
enemy of Ra ! The ﬂame coming forth from the eye of Horus comes
against thee, a mighty ﬂame which comes forth from the eye of Horus,
comes against thee. Thou art thrust down into the ﬂame of ﬁre which
rushes out against thee, a flame which is fatal to thy soul, thy intelli-
gence, thy words ofpower, thy body and thy shade. The ﬂame prevails
over thee, it drives darts into thy soul, it makes an end ofwhatever thou
hast, and sends goads into thy form. Thou hast fallen by the eye of
Horus, which is mighty over its enemy, which devours thee, and which
leads on the mighty flame against thee; the eye of Ra prevails over
thee, the flame devours thee, and nothing of thee remains. Get thee
back, thou art hacked in pieces, thy soul is parched, thy name is huried
in oblivion, silence covers it, it is overthrown; thou art put an end to
and buried under threefold oblivion. Get thee back, retreat thou,
t_hou art cut in pieces and removed from him that is in his shrine. O
Apepi, thou doubly crushed one, an end to thee, an end to thee!
Mayest thou never rise up again ! The eye of Horus prevails over thee

