THE RELIGION AND GODS OF EGYPT. 73

lation than that of the Middle and New Empires, in which
the nature and mutual relationships of the gods were dis-
cussed and theogonies formulated. Speaking generally the
gods of Egypt were the everlasting and unalterable powers
of nature, [41, ‘day and night,’ ‘light and darkness,’ etc.
The great god of the Egyptians, R5, or Amen—Ra, as he was
called in the Middle Empire, was said to be the maker of
all things, the various gods Horus, Atmu, etc., were merely
forms of him. R5 was self—begotten, and hymns to him
never cease to proclaim his absolute and perfect unity in
terms which resemble those of the Hebrew Scriptures. It
will he seen from the translation of a hymn given in the
following pages that he is made to possess every attribute,
natural and spiritual, which Christian peoples ascribe to God
Almighty. The one doctrine, however, which lived per—
sistently and unchanged in the Egyptian mind for ﬁve
thousand years, is that of a future life. During the
earliest dynasties beautiful and enduring tombs* were
built in order that the bodies which were placed in them
might be preserved until such time as the resurrection of
the body should take place. It is clear from the papyri that

man was supposed to possess a body, a soul, % (3:1, a

‘genius’ lTl lea. and an intelligence, %i X”- The

body, freed from all its most corruptible portions, was
preserved by being ﬁlled with bitumen, spices, and

* “Les belles tombes que l’on admire clans les plaines de 'l‘h‘ebcs
et (le Salglsﬁrah ne sont done pas dues a l’orgueil (le ceux qui les ont
érigées. Une pensée plus large a présirle’ a leur construction. Plus
les materiaux sont e’normes, plus on est sfn’ que les promesses faites par
la religion recevront leur execution. En ces sens, les Pyramides ne
sont pas (les monuments ‘ de la vaine ostentation tles rois ’ ; elles sont
(les obstacles impossibles a renverser, et les preuves gigantesques d‘un
dogme consolant.” (Mariette, Nolz'cer (it: I’rz'ua'pmrx ﬁfonumen/x,
in 44.)

