308 NOTES FOR TRAVELLERS IN EGYPT.

objects proved that the natives of Thebes had succeeded in
unearthing a veritable “Cave of Treasures,” and M.Maspero,
the Director of the 1313le Museum, straightway determined
to visit Upper Egypt with a view of discovering whence
came all these antiquities. Three men were implicated
whose names were learnt by M. Maspero from the inquiries
which he made of tourists who purchased antiquities.

In 1881 he proceeded to 'l‘hebes, and began his investiga-
tions by causing one of the dealers, ‘Abd er—Rasﬁl Ahmad,
to be arrested by the police, and an ofﬁcial inquiry into the
matter was ordered by the Mudir of Keneh. In spite of
threats and persuasion, and many add tortures, the accused
denied any knowledge of the place whence the antiquities
came. The evidence of the witnesses who were called to
testify to the character of the accused, tended to show that
he was a man of amiable disposition, who would never
dream of pillaging a tomb, much less do it. Finally, after
two months’ imprisonment, he was provisionally set at
liberty. The accused then began to discuss with his partners
in the secret what plans they shouldadopt, and how they
shOuld act in the future. Some of them thought that all
trouble was over when ‘Abd er-Rasﬁl Ahmad was set at
liberty, but others thought, and they were right, that the
trial wouldbe recommenced in the winter. Fortunately for
students of Egyptology, differences of opinion broke out
between, the parties soon after, and ‘Abd er~Rasﬁl Ahmad
soon perceived that his brothers were determined to turn
King’s evidence at a favourable opportunity. To prevent
their saving themselves at his expense, he quietly travelled
to Keneh, and there confessed to the Mudir that he was
able to reveal the place where the cofﬁns and papyri were
found. 'l‘elegrams were sent to Cairo announcing the
confession of ‘Abd er—Rasﬁl Ahmad, and when his state-
ments had been veriﬁed, despatches containing fuller
particulars were sent to Cairo from Keneh. It was decided

