344 NOTES FOR TRAVELLERS IN EGYPT.

The Hyksos kings appear not to have troubled greatly
about Nubia. When the XVIIIth dynasty had obtained
full power in Egypt, some of its greatest kings, such as
'l‘hothmes 111. and Amenhetep 111., marched into Nubia
and built temples there; under the rulers of the XIXth
dynasty, the country became to all intents and purposes a
part of Egypt. Subsequently the Nubians appear to have
acquired considerable power, and as Egypt became involved
in conﬂicts with more Northern countries, this power
increased until Nubia was able to declare itself independent.
For several hundreds of years the Nubians had the beneﬁt
of Egyptian civilization, and all that it could teach them, and
they were soon able to organize war expeditions into Egypt
with success. As early as the XXVth dynasty, the territory
to the north of Syene or Aswan was a part of the Nubian
or Ethiopian kingdom, the second capital of which, towards
the north, was Thebes. About B.C. 7 30 a rebellion, headed by
Tafnecht, chief of Sa'is, broke out, and it was so successful,
that the rebels marched into middle Egypt, 226., the tract of
land which lay between the Delta and the Ethiopian terri—
tory, and overthrew the Ethiopian governors. When Pianchi,
king of Ethiopia, heard this, he prepared an army, and
marching northwards captured the whole of Egypt as far
as Memphis. The kings of Egypt of the XXVth dynasty
were Ethiopians, and their capital city was Napata or Gebel
Barkal; Tirhakah, the last of the dynasty, is thought to
have built the pyramids at Meroe. Cambyscs undertook an
ill—directed expedition into Ethiopia, but he met with no
success, and the result of his labour was only to open up
the country to travellers. Under the rule of the Ptolemies
many cities were founded in Ethiopia. In the reign of
Augustus, the Ethiopians, under their Queen Candace, were
repulsed, and their capital City destroyed by C. Petronius,
the successor of the prefect of Egypt, Aelius Gallus, who
placed. a Roman garrison in Ibrim, about 13.0. 22. Candace

