THE RELIGION AND GODS OF EGYPT. [0]

“Hail to thee, R5,, lord of Law, whose shrine is hidden,
master of the gods, the god Chepera in his boat; by the
sending forth of (his) word the gods spring into existence.
Hail god Atmu, maker of mortals. However many are their
forms he causes them to live, he makes different the colour
of one man from another. He hears the prayer of him that
is oppressed, he is kind of heart to him that calls unto him,
he delivers him that is afraid from him that is strong of
heart, he judges between the mighty and the weak.

“The lord of intelligence, knowledge (P) is the utterance
of his mouth. The Nile cometh by his will, the greatly
beloved lord of the palm tree comes to make mortals live.
Making advance every work, acting in the sky, he makes to
come into existence the sweet things of the daylight; the
gods rejoice in his beauties, and their hearts live when they
see him. 0 R5, adored in the Apts, mighty one of risings
in the shrine; O Ani,* lord of the festival of the new moon,
who makest the six days’ festival and the festival of the last
quarter of the moon; 0 prince, life, health, and strength!
lord of all the gods, whose appearances are in the horizon,
president of the ancestors of Auker;1' his name is hidden
from his children in his name ‘Amen.’

“Hail to thee, O thou who art in peace, lord of dilation of
heart (226., joy), crowned form, lord of the 7trerez‘ crown,
exalted of the plumes, beautiful of tiara, exalted of the
white crown, the gods love to look upon thee; the double
crown of Upper and Lower Egypt is established upon thy
brow. Beloved art thou in passing through the two lands.

and devours thee daily, according to that which Ra decreed should be
done to thee. Thou art thrown down into the ﬂame of ﬁre which feeds
upon thee; thou art condemned to the ﬁre of the eye of Horus which
devours thee, thy soul, thy body, thy intelligence and thy shade. ”—
British Museum Papyrus, 10188, col. xxiv.

* [111mg], 3. form ofRa.

i" A common name for a necropolis.

 

