[CHAPTER TWO

the French draughtsman for the Illustrated London New: (we found
a page of his on this table, a poem of brook and birches and mossy
stones), Faber, a young English banker who has travelled much and
is looking after the Anglo-Egyptian Bank and is going to Ramleh
with me when I have ﬁnished this, a good fellow who stands chafﬁng,
one of my three roommates. My mild type of joke amuses him. For
instance, while we were upheaved in the swelling sea Mariette’s cou-
sin’s husband consoled us with something which ended: “tout est
bien qui ﬁnit bien;” this I translated to my Britisher: “All’s swell
that ends swell.” And he was kind enough to laugh long. Those three
precious garments a blanchisseuse in Marseilles was kind enough to
smooth out for ﬁfty sous; I think she did not wet them; I hope they
will do it better here to-day.

..... The man who slept over me, Bonfanti, a Levantine
banker here in Cairo, told me about his venture in the oil mountain
of Egypt; I shall send his story to Mr. Lay, when my head is a little
straighter ......

CAIRO Thursday at sunset I went out to Ramleh and
Sunday donkey-rode for two miles along shore and palace
October 30, 1881 and gardens, houses and Bedaween tents, a desert
of sand on which at random every man has walked
in his square garden, wherein is water and fruitfulness, whereout is
Sahara. There are ﬁve railway stations in the place and a train every
hour to Alexandria in twenty minutes. I saw many homes which
looked pleasant and some horse-back riding.

Friday, I came at eight from Alexandria to Cairo at two-thirty, a
slow train and rather hot and dusty, but I could see the country well
and some things such as cotton picking and corn husking which I had
not seen before. At Tanta I left a card in the telegraph ofﬁce for Mou—
nib. I had been to his ofﬁce in Alexandria when Mustapha El Men-
zuleeyeh, a handsome Arab, told me in Arabic that Mounib talked
too many sharp words and would get on much better if he did not;
that he had been transferred to Cairo and then to Tanta where he is
now in the Court. Of all the men who had studied in France he
thought VVacyf the cleverest; W acyf had two millions.

72

