NOVEMBER 1886 TO APRIL 1887]

which we copied with avidity thinking it a discovery. In the summer
in Paris I hit on a page of hieroglyphics from this tomb in one of
l\v"Iariette’s publications‘, meager but just enough to spoil our work.
The next year he took us over and showed us some columns of a tem-
ple of Ramses II and one of the female sitting statues with a lion’s
head, which were made by Memnon by the hundred to adorn the
Temple of Maut in Thebes and which it has been the fashion to take
away to adorn other places, temples by Ramses II and Ramses III,
Museums in London, Paris, Leyden, Turin, Rome, Florence and
Berlin, palaces in Vienna and Brussels by their imitators. This was
and is so far as known the only whole one left in Egypt. Yesterday
he took us over to see the results of his work in the temple thus far, a
Sphinx, statues, door-post, walls. Ramses III has his name put on
some walls. The temple is dedicated to the God Anhoor, the nome
God of the Eighth Nome and his consort the Goddess Meheet, each
variations of the God Shoo and the Goddess Tefnoot. The name of
the place is Hood.2 This name was known before, but not the place to
which it belonged. A double statue gives the most important news. It
is of a master of the temple named Tooroee and his sister. This man
built a pylon and set up masts in front of it and made a lake and set
out fruit trees and ﬁxed up the place generally. The statue bears the
cartouche of Ramses II of several others fragments are found and
probably more will come to light when it is quite cleared. We had a
very interesting afternoon; Ned made an oil sketch and in the
evening when we went to say good—bye to the Consul a small boy
held up a wooden Osiris nearly as tall as he and Ned sketched him.
Large and small about two hundred of these statues were piled in one
tomb. Abd el N oor took three or four and when he went again found

that the Omdeh of the village had had them all burned.

This we did while the crew bought twenty bushels of wheat and
had it ground and baked for their next forty days consumption. Very
good bread it is when ﬁrst baked, but after forty days it needs a little
softening.

 

I. A. Mariette. "Monuments divers recueillis en Egypte et en Nubie,” Paris. 1889. pl. 78, and pp. 26-27
(edited by G. Maspero but the plates were printed many years ago).
2. Hood read Behd. see H. Gauthier, “Dictionnaire des noms géographiques." vol. II. Cairo. 1925, p. 28.

421

