[CHAPTER ONE

Luxor. You seem worried about letters which perhaps I
Thursday don’t get. I left word with you to have them sent
February 17, 1881 one week to Shepheards and after that to Luxor.
But when you wrote me M. Maspero was com-
ing I delayed in Cairo longer than I expected. His appointment
changes my programme here somewhat so that it will depend much
on his. I thought to copy something entire for publication, I do not
now want to do it without knowing what he thinks of doing. The
photographing too I ﬁnd is entirely possible by the much easier pro-
cess of gelatine plates, and if he will set up electric light and photo—
graph what I want, I don’t want to. . . . . . I want to stay here a
month or six weeks or as long as it isn’t too hot; it will not be too
much to get well acquainted with the monuments and know what
there is here. I would like a few hours talk with M. Maspero very
much, but I don’t believe he yet knows what he is going to do. I hope
you too may enjoy Egypt next winter. . . . . . I did not know
that M. Maspero would be appointed; the Khedive had promised it
to Brugsch but he doesn’t rule Egypt. Maspero himself was very
doubtful when I saw him, he said he thought the French Govern-
ment had started too late. But Brugsch had not the support of his
government, thanks to Lepsius, and the French Government was
preemptory, backed by the English who wish French backing when
one of their men dies. I wish you were here.

LUXOR Tuesday last I arrived here again and since then
Tuesday - I have been looking over the collections which
February 22, 1881 the Arabs have for sale, reading over the plans,
descriptions and texts of Karnak, studying a

little on the ground and keeping comfortable. Wednesday I went
with the Wiedemanns, Mother, son and daughter, to Deir—el-Bahri
and to some graves at Goornah. The graves are mostly in very bad
condition. In the one in which Ebers1 lived when here, I sought in vain

1. Georg Ebers. German Egyptologist (1837—1898). See A. Erman. in the "Zeitachrift fur mptiscbe
Sprache und Altertumskunde." Vol. XXXVI. 1898. pp. 140—142; Georges Eben. "L'Egypte. du Caire a
Philae." traduction de G. Maspero, Paris. 1881. pp. 265-268: a general description of the tomb. G.
Ebers. "Thaten und Zeit Tutmea III" in the "Zeitschrift fur agyptiache Sprache." Vol. XI, 1873. p. 1,
says: "in dem zerstorten Grabe derTepmeri. eines hohenWﬂrdentrﬁgers aus der XVIII dyn." The name
Tepmeri is not in the recent lists of tombs of Thebes. The Tomb of Amenemheb discovered next to the
tomb of Tepmeri. is no. 85 of Porter-Moss Ioc. cit.. vol. I. p. 115. See also Georg Ebers. "Mei: Grab in
Theben." Breslau, 1882.

46

