[CHAPTER FIVE

threatening vaults of the Serapeum where much work has been done
in staying with arches since I saw it, and so to Tee’s tomb and back
to Sakkarah. I went ahead and bought a few things of Fody while
they were entertained by the Sheikh—el-Beled. On the way back I
measured anew the granite column of the Temple of Ptah, so similar
to those in Vienna. \Ve reached the station in time to wait the usual
hour for the train.

Sunday I spent this sad day in the sad business of packing.
ﬂpril 4, 1886 There was room in my old receptacles for my acquisi—
tions, and by leaving some things not needful I was
able to get in the photo box and holders. They have just put wood
ﬂoors into the magazines and the old Saratoga will be better pro-
tected. I dined at Shepheard’s and saw Dr. Grant and Comanos, who
assured me there would be no war before May, if then. The Chicago
friends of Philo, the Armours, had come the day before, and I spent
the evening with them.

Monday I begin a journey to—day, as we did last year. But
ﬂprilj, 1886 ﬁrst I must go to the Khan Khaleel,1 for I have no
slippers.

Tuesday Yesterday I went to the Khan Khaleel, bought an-
xipril 6, 1886 other yellow Koofeeyeh and a new pair of yellow slip-
pers, said good-bye all around and at two-thirty
started for Alexandria. Morel, who breakfasted with the Grébauts,
came over with Grébaut to the station. It was cold on the way, so
cold that my heavy overcoat was not too warm, and the wheat on
the prairie looked chilled to the marrow. But the locomotive was not,
and soon after eight I was here in the Hotel Abbatt and up in Iudge
Kinsman’s room taking a cup of tea. We talked till two o’clock and
then I found my room with his help.

To-day I have telegraphed you to address me at Athens paste
restante, have seen the Greeks celebrating their fourth of July, have
bought some little antiquities of Pantazi, have called on the Cava-
liere Pugioli, who does not seem to be ﬁnding so many Greek vases at

 

I. “Khan el-Khalili. the centre of the market trafﬁc of Cairo. In the ﬁrst lane. on the left is a bazaar of the
shoemakers. in which the red shoes of the Arabs may be purchased." Baedeker. “Egypt." 1929. p. 57.

33.6

