[CHAPTER TWO

man who had anteekélz and then Abd—ul—ranni Faid, the recently ap-
pointed Reis of the Diggings there took us over the square mile of
ruin, in part forty or ﬁfty feet high, which is all that is left of the Mid-
land City. He pointed out three stones inscribed and I ﬁrst with in-
telligent eyes read them: one with ﬁve gods adored in this town, a
pillar fragment with the cartouche of Apries of the Twenty-sixth
Dynasty and another fragment of pillar with gods of this nome—the
Nome of the Black Bull, probably from the worship of a Black Bull.
The quantity of big granite and sandstone blocks and pillars, though
most of these have been carried away for building purposes, and the
monstrous mass of broken pottery attest a mighty city. Slowly the
fellaheen sift the ﬁne earth out from this and spread it on the land;
there is enough of it to last hundreds of years. So we cannot expect
very soon to know what is written on the stones that lie buried; they
will deliver up their story in the twentieth and after centuries. We
had a good time; we remarked the magniﬁcent bearing of the Beda-
ween compared with the fellaheen and I began to make it easy for the
artists to live near the Pyramids, where they want to sketch much. I
bought a few things; so did Montbard. Among mine was a

which I should think the anchor emblem of Christian

Hope; if I did not know that it was the hieroglyphic of

the meaning unite, and so a reminder of Horus who

united the two Egypts, Upper and Lower.

Tuesday there was brought me a queer bronze belonging to Judge
Scott,l one of Mr. F arman’s colleagues, the man who writes the scary
letters to the London Times; and Seliman from the Pyramids sold
me two King’s names and Mohammed Effendi described a queer
granite stone in Tanta, which has a hieroglyphic inscription and he
and I drew the stone together.

Thursday I went to breakfast with the Hagens. The brother was to
go up the river Friday. Mr. Niemeyer of the German Consulate was
there also. The brother has bought a lot of pretty things, among
them a set of Persian armor for ﬁve hundred and ﬁfty francs, which is
really ﬁne. Spitta2 came in after dinner and I stayed long. The Judge

1. John Scott. English barrister in Alexandria. appointed to the International Court of Appeals on June
24. 1875. retired on September Ist. 1882.

2. W. Spitta. German scholar well known for his ”Grammatik des Arabischen Vulgardialectes von Aegyp-
ten." Leipzig, 1880; "Obituary Notice" by Eduard Meyer. Leipzig, 1884.

76

