[CHAPTER ONE

Pyramids; he'thinks he shall have to study hieroglyphics. In this
place are many magniﬁcent Korans taken from the tumbling
mosques. The Museum occupied the afternoon with Mr. Young and
there I found Dr. Arthur Schilbach, a very young man who with a
young girl were copying hieroglyphics.

This evening as I write, Mr. Barnard who is in the Ministry of
Public Instruction and who is the correspondent of the Herald called
to see if I could send something to the Herald of any discovery which
might be made; he had seen Brugsch who seemed to have given him
a most extravagant account of my attainments. Brugsch has given
him a translation of the New York Obelisk to be printed on the day
of setting it up.

Friday L’Egypte had a notice of the Archaeological In-
7anuary 7, 1881 stitute which Mr. Maspero, it says, is coming to
found, about such an one as I have given to sev—
eral people, and in another column an account of his and Mme’s
arrival in Alexandria. But I did not ﬁnd them this morning. In the
afternoon I went with a sick Boston boy and his careful sister to the
Dancing and Howling Dervishes. At the D.D. the music was strangely
plaintive and as the sixteen whirlers in the ring revolved, on the faces
of many I saw the seal of religious ecstasy. Some of the singing re-
minded me of a fervent camp meeting and altogether I sympathized
entirely with it and was in no hurry to come away. At the Howling
Dervishes one was reminded often of a revival prayer meeting; when
one man was chanting I might have shut my eyes and thought I was
in a Quaker meeting. But I have never heard before as a pious noise
anything which was so near the snoring of a lion, or the puff, puff of
a locomotive just starting. At one time the Howlers, many of whom
had long hair, bent backwards and forwards, threshing the ground
with their hair, at the rate of ﬁfty times a minute; at another they
turned from side to side bowing as they faced the centre; all this
standing in a ring. Oddly enough the old man who seemed to conduct
the ceremony wore a Frankish overcoat and much of the time kept
his hands in its outside pockets.
Then I went to see Brugsch who showed me a pretty wooden
statue of a woman he had just bought of the Bedaween and the frag-

20

