[CHAPTER FIVE

health every other minute. His spectacles are used up. But I have a
new pair to surprise him with when he comes over market-day—
Tuesday. Aboo Gamb, who lives nearby, soon came in, and all the
neighbors followed. I took from one of them a small piece of De-
motic papyrus and from others a few things, one a little wooden kohl
holder with an ivory stick to daub it on with. Then, Aboo Gamb
going along, we went to Moosu’s house where his bright-eyed wife
showed us some stones, Coptic and Pharaonic, then to a man who
sold me ﬁfteen Demotic ostraca complete; he said they were from the

old Deyr, beyond the tombs of the Queens. And then to Khaleefeh’s
where the neighbors began to come in. El Gindeeyeh, the old woman
who bakes bricks with the seal of Ramses III for the beneﬁt of the
Khawagas, gave me a bit of an ostraca which bore a fragment of a
romance in Hieratic with red periods. Yussuf, who made your car-
touches on scarabs, tied up his Erment dog so she should not bark at
me, and Khaleefeh brought me milk, eggs soft-boiled, and wheat
bread. When I was satisﬁed (with a tin spoon) they all put their
hands in and ended it. Then we came down through Medeenet Haboo
southward to the Temple of Thoth, which I had not visited before. It
is somebody’s stable. As a temple it is not very good. The Ninth
Ptolemy, who built it, wasn’t much of a Thoth man.1

Sunday I wrote and loafed and talked with the Southern
7anuary 24, 1886 woman, whose voice is not so bad in the house,
and took her little girl with Maspero to see the

work done by the hundred laborers the ﬁrst day of clearing the tem-
ple, and took Philo to see the collection of Todros. In the evening
Todros’ son brought some things to Maspero, among them a statue
a quarter of a yard high of a young girl with really sweet expression.

Mme. Grébaut amuses herself most of the day on the deck looking
at the Beautiful Mountain and the movement on the river. Mlle.
helps her brother in his photographic experiments, as yet mostly un-
successful, or goes out with her Mohammed, who is added to our
Mohammed the Long and Mohammed the Cook, three Mohammed

servants out of four.

 

I. D. Mallet. “Le Kasr el-Agouz.” Cairo. 1909. A Thoth man - a wise man.

354

