[CHAPTERSIX

Said was over yesterday from the Great Pyramid to see me; he
has now two wives and seems to be getting on.

Mr. Cardwell, our Texan Editor Consul-General, tells me he never
passed a more delightful summer in his life; to him the hottest days
were comfortable. He has taken many pains to serve me about one
boat belonging to the Government and I ﬁnd that his introduction
goes a great ways. Mason-bey gave me a very funny account of his
experience in the Fayoom during the Time of Arabi when the
English thought he would be killed. He is the last American in the
Egyptian service. Blum Pacha1 introduced me at the Khedivial Club,
where they have many newspapers and play much whist. He does the
ﬁnance here, but not being an Englishman will have to go. Guy
Lussac, who manages Daira Sanieh is trying to help me about a boat.
But Insinger is worth all the rest. . . . . . I hope that the
weather will hold warm so that he need not start for Upper Egypt
before I am ready. He has built a little steam launch here and is
waiting for its eight-horse engine to arrive. He knows all about
boats, having built his own, and seems glad to work all the time for
me.

CAIRO Thursday, November 9.5, in the morning,
Noveméer 29, 1886 Arminius the Copt came to my terms about his
dahabeeyeh, declared before witnesses that she

was mine told the Reis so, and when I went over to raise The Stars
and Stripes on her, I found that my faithful friend Insinger had had
her hauled down beside his own boat at an expense of ninety cents,
the ﬁrst money I paid in the matter, for my credit here is so good that
Arminius will wait for his six hundred and ﬁfty pounds until Wilson
Bey, a subordinate of my friend Guy Lussac in the Daira Sanieh,
shall say that the papers he presents are right and are perfected. Guy
Lussac was kind enough to send Wilson about to look for a boat for
me and he brought me Wilson’s report that he found but two that
would suit; these two Insinger had found before I came. Nobody
knows better than Wilson about boats, be having owned the best on

I. Blum Pacha—“During the early days of the occupation, the post of Financial Secretary was held by
Blum Pasha. a very intelligent Austrian, who had the rare merit of having served the Egyptian Govern-
ment during the lax and corrupt rule of Ismail Pasha without the most censorious critic being able to
whisper a word against his honesty." Earl of Cromer, "Modern Egypt," London, 1908, vol. II, p. 291.

410

