[CHAPTER NINE

Marc}: 2, I890 Ned and I went into Keneh yesterday at sunset and

looked over the Anteekeh shop of Girgis without
buying anything. After dinner we four spent two moonlit hours in the
Temple of Denderah, the ﬁrst time I have seen it by night, which
adds wonderfully to its grandeur. A favoring wind brought us near
forty miles by one o’clock, thermometer 91 °, and at night we were at
Homran. Lottie’s birthday.

Marc]: 3, 1890 We reached Belianeh before noon. The Laimbeers

called on us and we saw the Osiris folk, our Mr.
Maudslay suffering from his Nicaraguan malaria. The girls had a
warm bath in the river.

March 4, I890 Lottie and Linnie did not go to Abydos with us.

We did not suffer from the heat, reaching there be-
fore ten. I corrected enough on the long text to ﬁnish it another
year, ifI may add 1891 to ’88, ’89 and ’90. The excavation is ﬁn-
ished, but, as I thought last year, the ex-steamer Captain who was
sent up to oversee Gad’s work absorbed so much of the thirty
pounds, that the surrounding wall needs more money, sixty pounds,
Gad says, if the reis comes, thirty if he does not. In the evening we
came on to Sheikh Gama.

Marc/z 5, 1890 We went over to the tomb of Anhoor-mes at Mes-
heykh where I copied a little and Ned made a
sketch of Nefady’s brother as an old monk zealously hammering
out the pagan has-reliefs. Thence to Geergeh where we all called on
Abd-el—Noor, not quite reinstated in lands, consulship and avoirdu-
pois. I picked up a few anteekeh, among them a tablet of offering in
Egyptian style, but with a Greek inscription to Bes and Horus.
Professor Eisenlohr came down by postal boat and spent the evening
with us; he had been suffering with the heat at Luxor. He wanted me
to recommend dragomans and dahabeeyehs to be put into the
Baedeker’s Guide which he has been making now these four years.

Marc}; 6, 1890 With a ﬁne south wind we came on, stopping at
Mensheeyeh only for Nefady to ﬁnd that Hanna

Kerass was not at home, and reaching Ekhmeem soon after noon.
56o

