[CHAPTER TWO

hammed the cook bought cotton and bed ticking and made me a
sumptuous bed. It is more than one-third the width of our bed and so
I easily become accustomed to it. At M. Maspero’s suggestion I got a
spirit lamp; he thinks it not good to wash the eyes in cold water. I
have thus far killed one mosquito in my room, a relic of Cairo; I
think we shall have no more.

Monday, though ready, we could not start; M. Maspero received
an order to stay a day for a signature to be given. I did not go back to
the town. Tuesday morning I went only to buy my étagéres; I had
said good—bye. In the Museum I was copying on the cofﬁn of Ramses
II when Mr. and Mrs. Ames Lyde called to me over the barrier. I had
seen them for two weeks last year. Mrs. Lyde said she had bought the
books for Arabic the titles of which I gave her, and studied them.
They were to start next day in the Extelle dahabeeyeh. At two o’clock
we passed through the bridge and my little telescope was in requisi-
tion. Cairo is very beautiful at a little distance. The palaces, which
will not bear close inspection, are ﬁne when you are far enough away
to lose their ruinous condition. I saw Mrs. Lyde a mile away receiv-
ing some visitors on the Estelle and the Stars and Stripes ﬂoated over
the Griﬂfn which followed us with Mrs. Belmont and her son and
daughter and daughter’s husband Howland. Toward sunset we put
down our stakes at Bedreshayn and went on shore to see them drive
the cattle home. I did not see Aida. Said came up with me and I
found the “Green Donkey” (donkey-boy for gray) which I had sent
up by train. Wednesday we all went over to Sakkarah, Maspero,
Brugsch and Bouriant to the Pyramid of Nofer-ka-ra Pepi to copy its
inscriptions and the rest to Mariette’s house. I saw my friends in the
village and left Said to hunt anteekeh; then copied a little in the
tomb of Ti and returned to ﬁnd the antiquities. They promise nice
things for to-morrow. Mme. Rhone, borne aloft on the shoulders of
four Arabs, looked very much like the pictures of four or ﬁve thou-
sand years ago.

At night we came scattering back, last of all M. Maspero at seven
with the pleasant announcement that I could not go in to the pyra-

88

I I y I .. T I ' I I I I III I ’ " I I
I, III I * ‘. I =~_ I ‘_II.”I:I""_'.' :1

