DECEMBER 1880 TO APRIL 1881]

him and his daughters in the Temple of Philae. The elder, whom Mr.
Elsen thought very handsome, a Scotch type, wants to study hiero-
glyphics. She came with her father to see my books and I gave her
titles of some to begin with; I hope she has the persistence to go
through. They invited me to stay at their house when I go to Liver—
pool to study that Museum.

Professor F iske of Cornell has perhaps the most luxurious daha-
beeyeh hireable on the river. He came after me Saturday and I called
to see his wife. . . . . . I knew F iske when he was in the Astor
Library, before he had become one of the ﬁrst Icelandic scholars.

I think Father will have to come to Egypt to get the rheumatism
dried out of him. The dryness would make him drink much Nile wa-
ter but it is good to drink; I have found no wine in Egypt so good.
The thermometer in my room varies from 6 5° to 80°; rarely reaching
this last. We have had two days of Khamsin,l but that is not bad in
the house; it is not enjoyable out of doors. The English complain of
hot weather sometimes, but to Americans these are only bright, not

hot, June days.

The Prince2 has not come yet. The Austrian Consul has built a little
mud pier and planted two rows of cork-screwy posts from it up to his
house; I suppose they are to repeat the festoons we have seen in the
Champs Elysées. I do not stay away from the monuments to see him
land; there are too many sand banks; steamers are now very uncer-
tam.

I saw a pair of little mummy feet for sale yesterday at Medinet-
Abu; I hope they were not the feet for which my littlesandal was
made. But they may have been.

LUXOR There is not much since the last boat. I have been to
Marc}: 4, 1881 Karnak and I have been to Karnak. Some day some-
body will build a hotel at Karnak and then Luxor

will be deserted. I am making readable the hieroglyphics I brought,

I. “Khamsin—a hot. oppressive wind arising in the Sahara. It blows in Egypt at intervals for about ﬁfty
days during March. April and May. and ﬁlls the air with sand." (Encyclopaedia Britannica.)

2. Rudolph of Hapsburg. See “Travels in the East including a Visit to Egypt and the Holy Land" by His
Imperial and Royal Highness. the Crown Prince Rudolph. London, 1884.

51

