[CHAPTERBIGHT

MINIEH Went to the post ofﬁce and got letters from
N member 21, I888 Compton and Paris. My Apothecary friend was
very glad to see me and took me to see a collec-
tion. The owner will not part with any of the pieces but would be
glad to sell the whole for some thousands of francs. He has three or
four pieces for which I might give a dollar. The wind brought us at
night to Sheikh Abadeh‘, now inhabited; the ban having been taken
off six months ago everybody rushed back and rebuilt on his old
foundation. It is a joyful village under its palms. I got a piece of
marble which is so beautiful I think it must be rare, a bit of enamel
ﬁt to be set in gold, a lapis cylinder and a fragment of a Coptic in-
scription in this old Antinoe. This is the morning of the twenty-
second. Then the wind rose and took us to Sheikh Said, and the
felucca up the creek and we donkeyed over to the North tombs of
Amarna. Insinger scattered his attention, but I went only to No. I,
which we did not visit last year, Mr. Black2 was the owner of it. I cor-
rected some texts which I copied from Nestor L’Hote’s MSS. in the
National Library last month and found his name there in pencil
with the date 1839. Several Greek names also, among them Demo-
krites’, not in pencil and not dated. The Greek name needed no ad-
junct. Aboo Shanab wished he had all day to photograph in No. 3,
Mr. Sunlove’s tomb3. From it are drawn most of our ideas of Egyptian
houses and gardens and it has been fully published, but a photograph
is always better than a drawing. From three to ﬁve only we spent in
these tombs and on returning came southward most of the way to
Haggi Kandeel, but tied up on the western bank near Deir Mowas.

Novemécr 23, 1888 I found the tax gatherer at Haggi Kandeel in the

morning; I left him there last year. The people
complained that they had nothing to show me; the police would not
let them dig. But I went to Hillaleeyeh’s house and all the anteekeh
women came and I gathered many fragments which Nefady and
Oorooshwan cared for. One bit of granite is the shoulder of a statue
with the cartouche of the Sun-God on it, a bigger shoulder than
mine. There are some pretty lotuses from a quarter of an inch to

 

I. Shaikh Abadeh - Antinoé.
a. Mr. Black Panehesy: see N. de G. Davies. "The Rock Tomb: of El Amarna." vol. II. London. 1905.

3. Mr. Sunlove - Meryra. ibidem. vol. 1. London. 1903.

478

