[CHAPTER ONE

but can only do it partially, for much that was visible before the time
of Mariette has been covered by the debris of his excavations. On the
whole more important inscriptions were visible before Mariette’s
time at Karnak than are now. We had, somewhere near, a great
storm on Wednesday. There were a few drops of rain here and yester-
day morning the sun could hardly ﬁnd its way through the conse-
quent fog of vapor and sand. But it was a good time to work. When I
got back to breakfast the Prince had come. The ladies watched his
debarkation with great anxiety and report that he isn’t bad looking
and didn’t look at anybody, not even at the sword-dance given in
front of the landing, and didn’t mount the donkey-block erected spe-
cially for his Royal Highness’s use in mounting his Royal Highness’s
donkey. At eventide Brugsch came back from Karnak and we sat for
an hour while the sun set and the moon and her three attendant
planets (a few days ago four, Mercury, Venus, Jupiter and Saturn
were visible together) came out over the storied mountain. The
Arabs brought their best things to show, and Brugsch told me how
they tell that sometimes at night an Arab goes alone to the Lake by
the Temple of Amon at Karnak and there he sees the golden daha-
beeyehl making the circuit of the lake and by and by it stops and
throws out gold which one may pick up as long as one likes. But one
never does, because one always speaks; it is so wonderfully beautiful
and an uttered word makes all vanish. What a strange survival from
the old times when the gilded bark of Amon, so often described and
pictured to us, ﬂoated on these same waters, then reﬂecting the gor—
geous piles whose ruins amaze us.

Brugsch lived here some time in the French house, on the temple of
Luxor, while Rachel was there in her last days. He pronounced genu-
ine a scarabée I had doubted, of the King Anch Hor,2 who ruled at
Thebes while the Ptolemies held Lower Egypt, a King known, ex-
cept for this scarabée, only from deeds and contracts dated in his
time. It is exquisitely cut, like a Greek intaglio. I will try to seal this
letter with it.

1. the golden dahabeeyeh. See G. Legrain. “Louqsor sans les Pharaons." Brussels. 1914. p. 95; V. Loret.
“Legendes égyptiennes.” in “Bulletin de l'Institut égyptien." Cairo. 1884 (and series. no. 4. 1883). pp.
100-105.

2. King Anch Hor seems to be unknown in recent books on the Kings of Egypt. See H. Gauthier. “Le
Livre des Rois d'Egypte." vol. IV. Cairo. 1916. pp. 426—427. King Harmakhis. Is it the same or a mis-
take for King Ankh Hor of the Ethiopian period. known by a scarab in the Petrie Collection: Fl. Petrie.
“A History of Egypt from the XIXth to the XXXth dynasties." London. 1925. p. 272.

52

