NOVEMBER 1887 TO MAY 1888]

foundations we trace at Tell-el—Amarna. We will look into it well
when we get there.

Sunday, thirteenth, Mohammed, Cook’s loud dragoman, has just
been telling me of the Flood in Luxor. He was home from London the
twenty-ninth of August. The thirtieth most of the damage was done
in two hours. Aly Moorad lost his saqehs and the things on his ﬁelds
as well as his house which he is rebuilding. The Italians whom Cook
engaged to make a model of the Temple of Edfoo, have, he says,
made a splendid thing, though he does not know where it is and has
not seen it. Cook has gone to Assioot and will start with his old pas-
senger boats an opposition to the postal steamers, running them
twice a week and at the same or less rates. Mohammed is to take up
lanky Charters Saturday, by rail to Sioot and then in the Abéas, one
of the new passenger steamers, all to himself.

Yours of the ﬁfth has come with enclosures. I guess Fuller was
swelling a little to the Judge when he spoke of an invitation. He
asked me about cost of board on my boat and I told him I did not
know whether my proprietress would become a landlady. Of course I
told him the climate was delightful and that there was a good hotel
in Luxor. Now I can tell him that the new Cook semi-weekly service
will take him there very comfortably for twenty-ﬁve or thirty dollars,
making less than a hundred and twenty dollars from Paris.

Monday I went over to the boat this morning. The men
November 14, 1887 think it will be ten days before the boat can be
launched; Insinger hopes for better things. But
I guess they will take all that. Things need much cleaning and work.
The gilding is on such irregular molding that I doubt if we can do it
over. I shall paint the boat entirely inside. If you want anything but
white, which they say is now the fashion, and which I like, write me
at once. The drawers roll in the Salon and there is a new basin in
place of our broken one.

Mr. Lieblein,l the Norwegian Egyptologist, who, Professor Toy

tells me, is at Mme. Finck’s, has just sent me a pamphlet on Red

 

I. Jens Daniel Carolus Lieblein. Norwegian Egyptologist (1827—1911). See Ernst Anderson. in “Sphinx."
vol. XV. Upsala 1911-1912. pp. 161-167; G. Maspero. in “Recueil de travaux.” vol. XXXIV. 1912. pp.
114-116. The pamphlet here quoted is: ”Handel und Schiﬂahrt auf dem rothen Meere in alten Zeiten
nach agyptischen Quellen." Christiania. 1886.

433

