“mm—TITLE _ "T".

DECEMBER 1882 TO APRIL 1883]

TAHRAKA’S ROOMS This morning I went to Karnak and tried to
AT KARNAK study out something more of those sheets which
Friday Dora and Zoe helped me to trace from the big
February 9, 1883 book of Prisse.1 The stones have crumbled much
since then and Mariette has half covered the
rooms with the débris of his “excavations” which always happen to
cover more than they discover. However, Maspero promises to dig it
out for me. De Rougé translated and commented this text ﬁfteen
years ago; only he did not see the most important things it teaches.
The boats come up Monday and Thursday at noon and go down
Tuesday and Saturday at break of day. We found yours and Dora’s
of the nineteenth and yesterday came yours of the nineteenth and
twenty—sixth. It may be strange to you but from this distance we
cannot see any signs of a crisis in France, perhaps because we do not
read the Figaro. The conﬁscation of the property of the Figaro
might have been a good thing, but the only effect of the imprison-
ment of Plonplon2 is,I think, to relieve him of a little of the ridicule
he has fairly drawn upon himself. You will ﬁnd the Paris letters of
the Egyptian Gazette: I send you rather interesting. I am glad if the
girls are getting something in the way of voice out of their lessons;
that is more important than the singing. . . . . . It seems odd
to hear about sleighing when we need a parasol.

Evening A glorious sunset while I lounged on the bank and talked

with Kaleefeh and Yussuf and my little Mohammed and
the boy who can say exquisite and the rest; and the slender crescent
came out—rather to my right which made me still more content with
this lovely land. A strange crescent it is, so level that you can not tell
if it dip south or north, a very boat as we see them on the temple walls
with gods and goddesses therein. And as in Elder Time the moon—god
was called the Reckoner of Time, so here in this land they still reckon
their time by the moon months, twenty—nine and one-half days to the
month, three hundred ﬁfty-four to the year. This is why their feasts
come eleven days earlier to us every year and so revolve backward

I. E. Prisse d'Avennes. “Monuments Egyptlens." Paris. 1848, pl. XXXI—XXXIV; see Porter-Moss.
"Topographical Bibliography," vol. 11. 1929. p. 73; Et. Drioton, "Rapport sur les éléments de reconsti-
tution du petit temple dit 'de Taharqa.’ ” in "Annales du Service des Antiquités de l'Egypte." vol.
XXIX. 1929. pp. 1-4.

2. "Plonplon"—aobriquet of Napoleon Joseph Charles Paul Bonaparte (1822—1891).

211

