[CHAPTERSEVEN

Friday I have come and gone regularly to and from the
Decemaer 2, 1887 boat and the paint is getting dry enough to work
upon. A Mr. de Gonzenbach, Swiss, sails to—
morrow in the Sesostris which has been ﬁnely ﬁtted up with moosha-
rabeeyeh work by Parvis and is let for three hundred thirty pounds
for three months. I have just visited the Cheap: where Abd-el-Aal
seems to think it was not his fault, if he was not my Captain and the
Berberee was, and also the Thames where Mrs. Berkeley gave me
the cup of tea she promised me years ago while we were taking tea
with Mrs. Grant. The same Doctor is with them and they hope to see
us often this winter.

SHEPHEARD’S Two days more and Insinger’s Doctor wants him
Sunday to start. It is not cold yet, but he needs the better
Decemaer 4, I887 air above. So we are trying to be ready by Tues-
day, and I am leaving everything I can to the last

to spare the fresh paint.

Mrs. Wetmore and Mrs. Matthews arrived last night, Mr. Cook
bringing them down from Sioot in his steam launch. They are de-
lighted, especially with the ﬂow and glory of the Nile, which seems to
have made more impression than the monuments.

The Delaware girl who was taken to the hospital with typhoid
after her Syrian journey, is better; but Mr. Black of the Milwaukee
family, is more likely to die than to live. So thinks Dr. Grant to
whom I took three professors last evening, Toy, Lieblein and Piehl.
Miss Black had feared the worst, wanted me to see the Doctor,
who has been in only for two days as consulting physician, and
saw me after I came back to know if she should “prepare her
mother.” She seems to carry the family with much wear.

While I was gone, Baillet1 and Bénédite, the Philae French school
men came, the only evening I have been out.

Tuesday Monday I stirred about picking up things and
Decemaer 6, I887 lost much time about mirrors. But they did not
turn out so badly and look tolerably well four

feet by two feet. They are along the rear wall of the saloon and will

1. Jules Baillct. French Egyptologist (1864— ) and Georges Aaron Bénédite. French Egyptologist (1857-
1926). For the last see Ch. Boreux in “Revue de l'Egypte ancienne." Vol. 1. Paris. 1927. pp. 250-278.

 

440

