NOVEMBER 1887 TO MAY 1888]

them one gets a good idea of what it will be when excavated fully.
And just before the Church the Copts made in one part, he has dis-
covered an altar shaped monument to the Emperor Constantine‘. I
think I had told you about the seizures of antiquities he had made of
Sidrak at Ekhmeem, of Hanna Kerass at Mensheeyeh; of Abd—el-Noor
at Geergeh; of Mohammed Mohassib and Abd-el-Megeed and Moh-
mood Ledeed at Luxor; and of Husseyn at Edfoo, all made by the
police on one day2. His main object was to get the cuneiform tablets
said to be found at Amarna, but Consul Frénay tells me he got none.
He himself had Sidrak’s and Budge had already bought the ﬁfty odd
which M. Mohassib had at Luxor. I am inclined to think that Tano
planted them. He has for years been buying such tablets from Bag-
dad. He made the most fuss about them and his ways are devious. M.
Mohassib told me this story of Tano. Emin Bey of Ekhmeem, whom
I know, had a very ﬁne blue scarab with three cartouches of Memnon
and his wife, one of the marriage scarabs or of the lion-killing scarabs
of which there are twenty or thirty known3; I judge this was the ﬁnest
of them all. Tano knew he could sell it for two hundred dollars. Emin
and Tano were in Luxor. While together Tano had a man bring him
ﬁve scraps of Coptic for which he paid a pound, asking the man to
ﬁnd him more. Then Tano sent Idris to Emin with a small Abyssinian
Liturgy and orders to trade it for the Scarab. Emin thinks he can sell
the book to Tano for a great price and though it is so precious Idris
ﬁnally lets him have it for the Scarab and ten dollars. And Tano got
the two hundred dollars. Then Abd-el-Megeed bought the book for
one hundred twenty—ﬁve dollars, paying twenty—ﬁve dollars and
saying he would borrow the rest of Mohassib. Mohassib doubted and
sent him to Father Francisco with whom was a brother from Abys-
sinia who said the book was worth two dollars. Then A. Megeed went
to Emin and told him that Mohassib had no money, but he should
have some after ﬁve or six months and would pay him then, where-
upon Emin thought he had rather take back the book. To which A.
Megeed reluctantly consented.

I think Grébaut got all A. Megeed’s antiquities. You know he kept
them all in the room he slept in. But M. Mohassib used to go out of

 

I. G. Daressy. “Notice explicative du Temple de Louxor." Cairo, 1893. pp. 57- 58.
2. E. A. Wallis Budge. “By Nile and Tigris." London. 1920. vol. I. pp. 138 and seq.
3. Percy E. Newberry. “Scarabs." London, 1906, pl. XXXII.

461

