[CHAPTERSIX

DAHABEEYEH S even Hathor: Last Wednesday Insinger took his
APPROACHING BENI SOOEF father and brother to Bedresheyn and
Decemécr 29, 1886 they came back afoot to Helwan and
thence by rail. His father has been
very anxious he should start and thus was satisﬁed. But I knew that
he would wait for us. So we went on quietly with our preparations
Thursday and the Germans came on board their boat at night. We
ﬁnished our preparations while they were touring their boat all day
Friday and in the evening rowed up to tea with them; it took us eight
minutes to return with the current. Saturday we tracted for and we
both reached Gizeh and went to see Farrag’s antiquities, the ﬁnest in
any Arab’s hands. He was not at home, but Aly Gabree received us
with coffee and I took a couple of heads of him, one ﬁne old Egyptian
and the other a characteristic Roman. We had our Christmas turkey
amid green decorations and beautiful roses and the main room looked
really ﬁne. Sunday we sailed in the morning with a very light wind,
the German boat leading us a little; in the afternoon we came up to
Insinger at Bedresheyn. A German friend here left the Germans and
we ﬂoated on a little space, but not far, the wind failing.

Monday we all went over to Sakkara. Lottie was raised aloft in a
straw chair on bamboo sticks which eight of the sailors carried on
their shoulders, four at a time, and the girls used their side saddles for
the second time. The ﬁrst time was when we went to Farrag’s. Old
Mustapha and Mohammed Shayn received us and so glad were they
to see me that wonderful to tell they refused the customary bakh-
sheesh. They were full of messages from M. and Mme. Maspero who
seem not to be displaced in their affection. Just before we left Cairo,
I found a lithographic plate, got some autographic ink and Ned drew
the New Year’s card I send you. To-day we have a hundred and
thirty of them ready to post; we have come from Ayat to Beni Sooef,

a good day’s sail.

Lottie has been struggling thus far with our belongings and the
rear room is beginning to get into shape. The deck is still pretty much
chaos. All day the three boats have been almost within hailing dis-
tance of each other, sometimes within talking distance. We bought
an eight-dollar sewing machine and Dora has been running it to-day.
Our groceries have been getting out of papers into bags and are being

416

