DECEMBER I882 T0 APRIL 1883]

old boy who is a beauty. They are awaiting the authorization (and
funds) to go to Luxor for two months’ work in Seti’s Tomb.1

CAIRO Yesterday and to-day I have been straightening
Tuesday out my things and this afternoon I mean to go to
yanuary 16, 1883 the steamer. M. Brédif’s English co-controller,
Mr. Colvin, has resigned from the control and
been appointed ﬁnancial adviser to the Khédive. A Khamseen wind
warmed us up yesterday and blows heavily to-day. I made no effort
to go to the Khédive’s reception last night; why should I seek his
acquaintance? He has no papyrus. Maspero’s pittance for digging
last year has just been cut down a hundred pounds for this year to ﬁve
hundred pounds. Naville is coming to dig in the Delta for old Jews?
with twenty thousand francs of English money. The English have
forbidden digging in Cyprus and will probably soon do so here except
for themselves. . . . . . I sent the eighteen photographs de-
scribed in the enclosed card and the Byzantine bracelet or armlet
which I have spoken of and six Byzantine coins, two for ear-rings
and four for a Greek Cross; I enclose the paper on which I laid them
to see how they would look, before buying them. Byzantine is ugly,
but it is Byzantine. Poor Bedawee came for another letter to be
written to-day, this time to a cousin of the Pattersons whom I saw
last winter here and on the home voyage; this cousin last year went
to Sinai alone with three or four Arabs and this year will spend a
month or two in Philadelphia with one. Plucky Marshall G. Wilson.
The Pyramid Bedaween have got their sheikhs out of prison through
General VVood’s intercession. La politique anglaise—

CAIRo I have not slept three nights on the boat well.
STEAMER My room is clean and my cotton bed of last year
Friday is soft enough. Things go back into their old

747mm“)! 19, [883 places and I have found place for Medusa’s
mask. I came Tuesday night and found Piehl
with the Maspero’s.

I. Lefébure published a complete edition of the tomb under the title "Les Hypogées Royaux de Thébes—
Le Tombeau de Seti I" in "Mémoires de le Mission archéologique francaise au Caire.” vol. II. Paris.
1886.

2. E. Naville. “The Store-city of Pithom and the Route of the Exodus." London. 1885; 4th edit.. 1902.

191

