DECEMBER 1882 T0 APRIL 1883]

other. M. Maspero, who does not bother his head much with mathe-
matics, thinks we shall not understand these inscriptions until we
have otherwise learned all they have to tell of chronology. This book
of Brugsch’s is the ﬁrst of a series of inscriptions with translations
and comments. May he continue it.

2 P. M. We have arrived at the City of the Egyptian Pan, Ekh—

meem, and meet a Postal Steamer by which this shall go.

Wednesday It was only a Cook steamer and did not stop. We
fanuary 31, 1883 took a long walk through the town and out-
skirts, I with a Copt I had known in Luxor who
is now here teaching the American Mission School of sixty boys. We
are off this morning to the ruins of an old Coptic convent where
there may be some scraps of inscriptions, having renounced the hunt
for the great tombs of Panopolis1 told of by Harris and Lepsius,
which we did not ﬁnd last year.

EKHMEEM I had so vivid an apparition of Mrs. Minturn in
Wednesday a dream last night that I sent her a note asking
january 31, 1883 if she were yet alive; perhaps it was because you
said you were going to see her. After mailing my

letters we started at nine o’clock to make the three hours’ journey by
Hawawish to the Valley of the Well and Spring,2 where there are
remains of an old Coptic convent, but, as we found, no inscriptions.
The last half of the way is up a gorge quite narrow between walls
four hundred feet high and nearly perpendicular, a wonderful geo-
logic exhibition of denudation. In many places tourelles are hung out
as on Norman towers so really that it seemed almost impossible not
to recognize the work of a human architect. Mme.’s donkey was too
many for her and I took him, as at Lisht. He wanted to gallop all the
way and I let him and made many detours, one a visit to a great
walled convent at the entrance to the Wady, long since deserted by
monks, but occupied as a fortress by the Copts last summer when
they feared an attack from the Moslems. From another old convent

I. Lepsius, “Denkmﬁler.” Text. Vol. II. Leipzig, 1904. pp. 163—167. H. Kees. "Das Felsheiligtum des
Min bei Achmin" in “Recueil de Travaux.” vol. XXXVI, 1914, pp. 51—56.

2. Murray, "Egypt,” 1880, pp. 431-432. See G. Maspero, “Deuxiéme rapport sur les fouilles et travaux
exécutés en Egypte." 1885—1386, in “Bibliothéque Egyptologique." Vol. I. Paris. 1893. pp. 234—242.

203

