[CHAPTEREIGHT

morning we woke upon splendid clear, crisp weather; there must have
been frost for the poplars and maples shone like gold: I have never
seen such color in Europe. Now for the voyage; I take it for better or
for worse.

STR. Natal Thus far with a smooth sea on a four thousand-

Last Day ton boat, with electric lights, and sixty chairs on
Noveméer 8, I888 deck, and a chance to walk straight as far as Al.

Seabury’s wall. Not too unlucky either, although

my napkin ring be No. I 3. I have only broken my mainspring and
Seleem Michalla’s head lies over my feet. He had ﬁrst a bunk over the
screw, called a single room; rebelled and was put in with my Javan
night comrade on the train, would come farther forward and monocled
Bapst was told of the single room and tolled off to it; then Seleem’s
brand new bags came in with me. He is German dragoman at Zanzi-
bar, and Zanzibar makes people, when it does not bury them, go to
Karlsbad, and he has seen Brugsch (who has sold the house in Char-
lottenburg), in his new apartment: Berlin W. Ausbach Nr. 411, and
his ﬁne library in two rooms, and knows he is earning ﬁfteen thou-
sand marks a year. Seleem likes Paris better than Berlin and is not a
bad fellow though he does not put up his (not very) dirty linen, and,
like many other Christians, gorms himself over with alkaline grease,
sometimes a dirty white and sometimes a dirty red, and then rubs
part ofit off on a towel. Outside he is as neat as a pin, and he consorts
mainly with our Baron Menascé and the black-browed daughters of
Zogheb, of whom twain this is the hieroglyphic:
pendant lock of raven hair, eyebrows aforesaid. These
be of the Jews who sit at the head of the Purser’s table; 9
of the Captain’s table’s head’s Jews I have noted a M
black-dog woman who plays chess and reads the Revue
de: Deux Monday, a ten-year younger edition of Mme.
Wasserman whom I saw at Mrs. VVagner’s the other Saturday; and a
lumpy Alexandrienne, whom I have crossed with before, and who sits
there now reading a British book entitled on the side: “Pear’s Soap,”
on the back “Beacham’s Pills.” Then there be British who are not
(Semitic) Jews; they say there are too many foreigners on this line,
and tell me the French can’t colonize, you know; their wives won’t

472

