[CHAPTER TEN

he assents. Professor Sayce took me to tea at Mrs. Ross’s. She is a
pleasant woman and goes up with her husband in his steamer.

Monday Dr. Worthington has taken the ﬂlma for Mr. Birkbeck

and they may be of? before us. The south wind still holds;
it is now nine days since Hassan Speke started and it began. Profes-
sor Sayce took me to lunch with the engineers at Kasr en Nil bar-
racks; one of them Mr. Lyons‘, is at work at hieroglyphics. I copied
two stones there, one of Ramses II, a big fragment with part of the
name Har—Khent-Khetee, the local God of the Benha nome; the
other built in, is a false door from a tomb of pyramid time of Mrs.
Zenoonz. Her man is incidentally mentioned, Mr. One. I have added a
pump and a piece of rubber hose to my goods so that we can get the
water out of the hold without slopping and into the reservoirs as well.
I ﬁnd plenty of milk condensed without sugar, and fruits preserved
in glass, quite sugarless; neither can be had in Paris. They set up my
table and I think Linnie will do well on the same regime. Mr. Leke-
gian, who made the ﬁne photograph of Lottie, inquires anxiously
after Mr. Blashﬁeld; Painter Mills’ studio is deserted, but he is

expected soon.

My room—mate from Alexandria to Marseilles, Colonel Gosset,
leaves his regiment to go home at the end of the year; a pleasant gen-
tleman.

CAIRO Forefathers’ Day. The week was uneventful till
Monday Friday morning when a telegram came that
December 22, 1890 they were in Alexandria and would be here Sat-
urday noon. Then they came after a delightful

voyage and with no colds, which Dr. Worthington and I were fearing.
With them two birds, Linnie’s dwarf parrot and Dora’s Starling, a
sparkling iridescent little warbler. The two hundred and odd rooms
of the hotel were full but room is made and we are hoping for better.
The pump I carried over this morning and found it a success; we
shall not be obliged longer to bale water out of the hold through our
back parlor and we can ﬁll our reservoirs on the upper deck without

1. Captain H. G. Lyons. Royal Engineers. born in 1864; to-day Colonel Sir Henry Lyons. V ice-President of
the Egypt Exploration Society.

2. The etela was at the time of Lepsius (1842—1845) in the former Palace of Defterdar hey. the Semi] of
the Pasha; see Lepsius “Denkmaler.” Text. vol. I. Leipzig. 1897. p. 19.

576

