selle S. Berger, and in Brooklyn from Mr. Edwin L. M. Taggart,
Assistant Curator of Egyptology.

The reader must not expect to ﬁnd here a biography of Charles
Edwin Wilbour. Such a work is reserved for an eventual American
biographer having access to historical sources and family archives.
Our present concern is with the Egyptologist whose activity and con—
tributions need only to be presented to compel appreciation.

An unusual type of scholar, truly, unwilling to publish his own
splendid ability; a scholar whose interest in Egyptology was entirely
scientiﬁc and without thought of self-aggrandizement. Yet he had
made extraordinary discoveries, and his name will live in Egyptology
through the Stele of the Famine on the Island of Sehel and a papyrus
in the British Museum known as the Papyrus Hood-Wilbour. The
important texts upon these were edited—the ﬁrst by Brugsch, the
second by Maspero.

We have authoritative contemporary opinions of his scholarship.
In a book on “La Science Frangaise, l’Egyptologie” (Paris, Larousse,
I915), Maspero, devoting. a passage to the most prominent of his
foreign pupils, writes: “Edwin Wilbour, American journalist, who
knew much, passed his last twenty years, alternately, in Egypt and
in France. He died in Paris in 1896, without having published
anything.”

The famous Orientalist, A. H. Sayce, in his “Reminiscences”
(London, 1923, p. 289), says: “At Abu Simbel, Wilbour, who had
been delayed in Cairo managed to join us in a government gunboat,
and from that time onward I had someone to help me in copying the
Egyptian texts. And very efﬁcient help it was, for Wilbour was not
only a good Egyptologist but the most accurate of copyists.” And
the following is taken from a letter of condolence written by Professor
Sayce to Mrs. Wilbour upon the death of her husband: “How differ-
ent the Nile will be in the future to me from what it has been in the
past. . . . Science could ill spare him, and I have lost in him more than
I can express in words. I can still scarcely realize that I shall never
see in this world my kindly neighbor and companion on the Nile, to
whom I never went for information in vain.”

A more important witness still is the famous German Egyptologist
Heinrich Brugsch, who in the preface to his book on the stele dis—
covered by Wilbour on the rocks of the Island of Sehel, wrote in

VIII

