[CHAPTER FIVE

glyphs from the lower tomb of Hap—zefa, and nearly all from his
upper tomb. The other tombs, to the north, are invaded, though as
yet no hieroglyphs are gone. If Ismael were back this could be pun-
ished, but now there is practically no government; the English have
paralyzed the old régime and have nothing in its place. I stopped at
the American Girls’ School on my way back, and arranged to see the
College tomorrow. Dr. Bliss of Constantinople was there.

Wednesday Maspero, Morel and I went ﬁrst to the Girls’
March 17, 1886 School. Miss M’Kown has two or three white and
as many colored teachers to help her. Of the sixty
or seventy scholars, the ﬁrst class read English and answered ques-
tions understandingly, the second class less well, and the smaller
children do Arabic only, which is the language of the school. They
have hard work to keep the girls long enough; the Copts marry them
so early, though they tell us there is an improvement; hardly any are
now married before twelve. And it is almost impossible to send them
out as teachers in the village schools, which they would like to do.
Some of them seemed very bright and were quite pretty; their color
varies from jet black to that of a Quaker bonnet. Here was Mrs.
Hogg, whose husband, dead only a month ago, had long been the
head of the College. A thin bloodless enduring woman, faintly
smiling. In the parlor before we entered the school, I had taken in
my arms a pretty pallid girl with hair rather white than ﬂaxen, who
answered my questions charmingly. In a hall I had seen a boy
younger, surely her brother. And the patient woman told me she had
a baby two months old, and in all, seven children here and one in
Scotland. I felt that I was in the presence of a calamity; these mis-
sionaries verily need a missionary.

We came away to the College, a new, roomy building between the
town and the Nile. Here we saw John Giﬁen and John K. Giﬁ'en,
Ohio men and about two hundred ﬁfty scholars. It is called a college,
and will almost compare in the highest instruction given with Mr.
Jenks’ Academy as I knew it. Logic is taught from an English text-
book; everything else, including geometry, trigonometry, astronomy
and such, from Arabic text-books made by Dr. Van Dyke at Beyroot.
A Waldensian from Piedmont teaches French in the upper class;

380

