DECEMBER 1880 TO APRIL 1881]

Brugsch told me that Maspero was doing nothing in Cairo but to
go into society and to the theatre and opera with his wife and that the
Baron de Ring, who had so “brusqué” the Egyptian Government in
securing his appointment, had been peremptorily recalled to Paris.
He does not know Maspero as we do.

LUXOR I have yours of the twenty-third of February

A/[arc/z 8, 1881 ..... and a note from Maspero in which he

announces another discovery which equals the pyra—

mids opened,1 and hopes he may get the time to come up to Luxor,

get a sight of the great places and bring me down. You know that

there is a steamer attached to the Direction of the Museum. This
however he is not sure of and it is not to be spoken of until he is.

I have been to Karnak every day but one since my last and then I
went to Goornah where I stumbled on the pious Mrs. Monroe who
after I had explained to her the Tomb of Rekhmara2 (folding plates of
which are in Wilkinson’s Ancient Egyptians) insisted on showing me
the Copt house where she had stayed the night before. A young Pres-
byterian Copt from the Siout Mission College keeps a school in Luxor
and had taken her over to this the one house of Presbyterian Chris—
tianity among the Tombs, where the Patriarch Todros, brother of the
German Consul Todros, lives and expounds the Arab scriptures to his
ﬁve sons and their wives and families. She showed me the upper room
in which she passed the night; it may have been thirty by twelve feet
and rather tempted me from its nearness to the Tombs of the Kings.
She had eaten with her ﬁngers, like the rest, with much ablution; To—
dros, the teacher and herself eating, while the wife waited. The Arab—
Turk who went over with me, seemed on very good terms with the
Copt. This Turk, Abd-el—Megeed went to show me fellahs who had
antiquities, but they were all gone to work yesterday on the Khe—
dive’s land. They have to go and they are paid ten cents a day. Much
of the land about here is owned by the Khedive. Indeed the tax is a
heavy rent, so heavy that the land sells for little. Abd—el—lV'Iegeed
told me he bought for twenty dollars an acre an island on which he
paid six dollars an acre tax and for tobacco an extra tax of twelve

 

I. The royal mummies of Deir e1 Bahari.
2. Tomb no. 100. Porter-Moss, “Topographical Bibliography." Vol. I. pp. 129-133.

53

, E— .
‘ .. n
i l

” l l »

