[CHAPTER TWO

voyage to Abydos, and doubtless many did in person. We did to-
day. And now we are Haggis more than though we had been to
Mecca. It was a charming ride though one and three-quarters hour
long.We admired the beauty of the bas-reliefs in the temples, so often
reproduced in plate and photograph and I was specially struck with
the Temple of Ramses II which I think has not had justice done it,
either as an artistic or as a religious monument. After a dinner at the
house of Seleeb’ the now blind guardian of the ruins and the most ef-
fective guardian in Egypt, for Said could not ﬁnd an anteekeh in
the town, which (the dinner) was so good that I feared I should not
be able to get out through the door, we went to the Necropolis where
Mariette spent so much to ﬁnd the actual grave of Osiris. As though
there ever was any actual grave! Seleeb’s men had found a stele of
Ramses IV which I measured: nine feet by three and one—half by
one and one-quarter, with over forty lines of inscription.‘ It was
mostly underground but in the arched top the King was giving an
image of Righteousness to Osiris, Horus, Isis, Nephthys and Khem,
and that was only half-way across. I judged it to weigh between
four thousand and forty—ﬁve hundred pounds, and I do not quite see
how these Arabs will get it to the river. But M. Maspero told Se-
leeb’s son to have it brought to Belianeh and put on board a sailing
vessel for Cairo and he acquiesced as though it were nothing. As we
saw only one—third of the length of a few of the ﬁrst lines I can say
nothing more of its contents until I get back to Cairo, where, they
say, we shall ﬁnd it on our return. The great necropolis, the Kom-
es-Sultan as it is called, the mound of the Sultan, is so saturated with
the undying sweetness of the great God, that still it was humming
with millions of bees who ﬁll its earth with their nests. The air was
alive with them.

lVednesday We went again to Abydos and worked diligently
Deceméer 28, 188! in the temples between the hours of going and
coming. Mahmood Mohammed of whom I

bought at Girgeh, had appeared in the morning having brought three
stones from El Mensheeyeh by the postal steamer. I bought them for

 

I. This stele had already been discovered by A. Mariette. see “Abydos,” vol. II. Paris. 1880. p. 41 and pl.
54—56; H. Piehl. “Stéle de l'époque de Ramsés IV. conservée au Musée de Boulaq" in “Zeitschrift fur
iigyptische Sprache." vol. XXII. 1834. pp. 37—41. and vol. XXIII. 1885. pp. 13-19.

100

