NOVEMBER 1888 T0 JULY 1889]

hotel. They were gathering money and he and Ahmed Mustapha had
bought sugar cane, a stalk for each soldier, four for a piastre, he little
knew that they might have had ten for a piastre and that a good
share of the difference went into Ahmed’s pocket. They would give
each one ten cigarettes also, and Ahmed and he had contracted for
them at nine piastres a hundred; the natives tell me ﬁve is the usual
price for such. I went to see Abd el Megeed’s things, few that I want.
He said he had what had cost him about two hundred and ﬁfty
pounds.

7anuary I4, 1889 I inspected Insinger’s house, stifﬂy yet, and

called on the Withers dahabeeyeh. He was shav-
ing, but Alice showed me the photographs her Aunt Anna took at
Thomasville; some black children were better than Eastman John-
son’s pictures. Ahmed Mustapha came to borrow a rope to put up a
Turkish ﬂag for the festivity; I sent the Reis to put it up and be tried
to get another from him. I told Ahmed that he was Moslem and be-
longed on the other side; he said he really was. I knew that the hun-
dred pounds a year his father received from the British did not hinder
him from sympathizing with the Mahdi. General Warren of Phila-
delphia, who was here two years ago is in the S oroora, which Miss
Plankington had, and a Boston Cochrane is up in a Cook daha-
beeyeh.

yanuary I5, 1889 “Col.” Donne arrived last night and the soldiers

come to-day. Many went to Karnak to see them
come through the temple. Bouriant and Mr. Jerningham breakfasted
with us. Bouriant has done much work during the two months he has
been here, all the non-religious texts at Medeenet Haboo, several
texts at Karnak and the tomb of Hor-m-heb‘, Wilkinson’s No. 16 at
Sheihk Abd el Qoorneh. Mr. Jerningham and I talked much on
religion, sciatica and Dr. Wayland. While the rest of the Withers
had gone to the Tombs of the Kings, I brought Mrs. Withers to our
boat. She is quite feeble and ought, I think, to stay longer here,
where the air seems good for her. Mr. Cook was to have dined with

 

:. U. Bouriant. ”Tombeau dc Hannhabi.” in ”Mémoires de le Mission archéologique francaisc au Caire."
vol. V. Paris. 1894. pp. 413—434; Tomb no. 78 of Porter-Moss. “Topographical Bibliography." vol. 1.
Oxford. {927. pp. 105-107.

503

