DECEMBER 1880 T0 APRIL 1881]

We put our invalids on donkeys and marched'to the boat Boa/4k
where I am now writing. It is not bad; indeed it is far ahead of our
Oklawaha trip and accommodations; of the sixteen ﬁrst-class passen-
gers seven are Americans, the rest half English, half German. The
beds are not soft, but are very ﬂat and the board quite endurable
for two days and a half.

Today I have enjoyed the panorama passing the nomes from
mountainous 12th to mountainous 9th and tonight we tie up not
far from the sacredest place in Egypt,1 the spot that holds the pre-
cious head of heads, of Osiris. So many tombs honeycomb the moun-
tain sides, that I send a recommendation to Professor Maspero to put
his school on a dahabeeyeh and come up and copy a few of them.
In one place an hour before reaching Soohag I counted at least one
hundred tombs. Of the many hundreds I have seen to-day compar—
atively few have been explored, scarcely any copied.

Manfaloot,2 where are the crocodile mummy pits and Kom Ombos,
where the crocodile was the great god, were the last places in Egypt
where crocodiles were found, so loth were they to leave the scenes of
their deiﬁcation. In these places they were treated better than else-
where until ﬁfteen hundred years ago, and this sense of well being
and attraction to place had been transmitted from generation to gen-
eration for fifteen hundred years, until a few years ago when steam-
boats and minie rifles exiled them to far Africa.

LUXOR HOTEL I left off at Girgeh near the sanctuary which
Monday holds the Sacred Head.

7anuary 24’ 1881 Thursday, the twentieth, we came on past the

birthplace of Nephthys and at night tied up at
Keneh, where they make the goo/elm" which keep the water so cool,
opposite Dendera, the birthplace of Isis. In the night a party from
the boat went over and illuminated the temple with Bengal lights;
I heard them at two o’clock in the morning when they came back.
On the way we passed Chenoboskion4 where in one of the tombs is a

I. The most sacred place in Egypt is Abydoa.

2. Manfalut in the neighbourhood of which is the famous Crocodile Grotto. See Baedeker. "Egypt." p. 225.

3. goolehs. small porous water-bottles. See Winifred S. Blackman. "The Fellahin of Upper Egypt.”
London. 1927. pp. 151—152. and Fig. 79.

4. Chenoboskion. The tombs quoted are known as The Tombs of Qasr es-Saiyad. See Baedeker, "Egypt."
p. 231; Lepsius. "Denkmﬁler aus Aegypten und Aethiopien." Text. Vol. 11. Berlin. 1904. pp. 171-181.

29

