[CHAPTER EIGHT

through at a time, the ﬂow would make a good way and keep it good.
I was astonished to hear this from him, but perhaps he only repeated
it! I am going now to post this at Bedresheyn before noon.

CAIRO . . . . . To-day we have a day of Khamseen. It is
May 10,1889 ten A. M. and with a strong south breeze we have
90° in the saloon, 92° in the double room. .

Our household arrangements go on smoothly; Abdoo, Aly’ s suc-
cessor, sweeps like a new broom. Moorgaan makes the best chicken
broth the Doctor has ever tasted and Nefady can do my errands in
town when I prefer to stay on board. The nurse [of Lottie] does very
well; she has served three years in St. Bartholomew’s in London.
Dora and she about ﬁve o’clock put on their bathing suits, go down
the back stairs into the now henless henboat, then to the west side
of the island of Rodah, where they spend a quarter of an hour in the
water, warm they say, and come back as excitedly refreshed as if
from the weedy surf of Compton. The ﬁrst time Nefady went with
them, his eyes went down like a priest’s when they got into the boat.

3 P. M. The Khamseen has been severe, but Lottie bears it better
than we do. She takes ice often.

CAIRO ..... The day last Friday was one of the worst
May 17, 1889 I have felt in Egypt, a gale of south wind, always
hot, but with super heated streaks which felt like
ﬂaming tongues. Could such weather continue for a week, they say
half the people would succumb. Our thermometers went to blood
heat, but Mr. Philibin told me that in the doorway of his shop, in
the shade, his glass marked 44°, equal to 111° F ahr. Simaika had
had a touch of sunstroke the day before, and his family spent the
day in the house, shut and darkened, doing nothing. It did not have
so bad an effect on Lottie as I feared and the days since varying from
70° to 85°, have hardly been too warm for her, as she may lie under a
sheet only most of the time and have a free circulation of air.

Dapper M. Gayet was in to say good-bye yesterday; he sails to-
morrow. So too does Mme. Bouriant. Grébaut and sister were here
from seven to eight P. M. Wednesday. He says he will not begin to

S32

