[CHAPTER EIGHT

haps with other birds. Whereupon my heart sank within me; I feared
that they were only Christian devices. But when he added scarabs I
took courage. And another Greek, less picturesque, said there were
painted tombs. The mummy cases have been found by digging in pits
in these tombs. It was too late to go this day; next day, or when I
would come down all wanted to go with me; the Greeks especially
seemed to have a keen interest in the anteekeh. They see something
in it.

I came back southeast to the Stone landing where the railway meets
the river whence Meir bears north 82° west. Sixty degrees south on
the edge of the desert is the Great Deir el Maharagl and not far from
it, I will venture to say, are more ancient tombs. For Osiris, Christ or
Mohammed, the sacred places are always the Sacred places. In this
Deir, the sore-eyed boy who was my donkey boy’s boy, told me, live
ﬁve hundred Christians who have two thousand acres and more.
Crossing the ferry a little fellow like crack-bone Yussuf helped the
ferry man and I gave him a half pound in mistake for a nickel. Half
an hour later he brought it in and the mistake was rectiﬁed. The boy
had brought it to us.

We came on to the beginning of Aboo F eydah, where we stopped
two years ago with the Frans and the Dickes kind, and where the
Hashash boat modestly ran away and left Ned’s sketch half done.

Noveméer 25, 1888 We worked our way, helped by intermittent

wind, to Beni Mohamed. Aboo Shanab got far
behind, sending to the post ofﬁce at Manfaloot. There was rain last
night and again this afternoon and evening. I had to move my books
as it came through, a few drops, on the fore side of the Book-room.
But all the while the air was quite dry, my psychrometer marked at
seven A. M., 71 per cent.; at four P. M. 61; at seven, 68: at ten, 74.
The average for Paris for this month is 88. The average for Algiers for
December (I have not November), is 78, much damper than here,
even when we have a rainy day. And we are hardly likely to have

another.

 

I. Deir el-Maharrag. See Baedeker. “Egypt." 1929. p. 225.

480

