[CHAPTER FOUR

Saturday Sophie Mariette came up in the morning and she
April 12, 1884 and a Dutchman, Hinzinger,1 who is on his way
down from VVady Halfa in a dahabeeyeh went over
to Sakkara with us. There was a very strong wind, which yesterday
we called a Khamseen. We went ﬁrst into the Pyramid of Horemsaf,
against the dangers of which you remember Henry Brugsch warned
me so seriously three years ago last January when it was ﬁrst opened.
A week ago to-day was my ﬁrst opportunity to enter it and it seemed
much more solid to me than the Pyramid of Pepi the Younger, or
little Pepi, as the Arabs call it. Then we went over to the Pyramid of
Unas the entrance to which now is quite palatial. You have to bow
down a little, but there is no wriggling or climbing. Then we went to
the house Mariette spent so much time in and breakfasted, while the
wind howled. I took a few angles, but no hieroglyphics. Toward night
the wind moderated and we rode back comfortably. Mr. Insinger
..... spent all last summer on his dahabeeyeh, staying at
Damietta during the cholera. He has now spent most of his time on
the Nile for ﬁve years, and is as black as an Arab and peakeder.
..... I do not at all understand the Cincinnati matter, but I
have no doubt that the “respectable citizens” who are so outraged at
the verdicts of juries, themselves cause the state of things by evading
jury duty. It is like the kid-glove politicians who would not be seen
going to a primary meeting, but who always groan at the nomina-
tions. Anyway the mob was bled well and bleeding is good for a mob.
I believe in the rule of the majority through the ballot, and that he
who revolts against this should be put down, shot down if that is the
quickest way. And the bystander who swells the mob and encourages
the riot by his presence is in effect as guilty as any. I should not blame
women for a riot, because they cannot vote.

Sunday We took on board our live stock, sheep and turkeys
Ami/13, 1884 and chickens many, and unmoored and while we
were turning the boat’s head northward, a lamb

jumped overboard, preferring the delights of Bedreshayn to Cairo
and death. But the bank was too steep to be scaled and the poor
sheep was picked out of the water by the little boat and his foot tied

 

I. Hinzinger read Insinger. This is the ﬁrst meeting of Wilbour and one of his best friends in later years.

310

