NOVEMBER 1888 TO JULY 1889]

The place is immediately north of the temple-yard walls, which I
have three times visited, and on the eastern limit of which the temple
foundations still are. Ahmed found the stone, while digging for
Sebakh, a few feet outside the walls to the east of the temple. Of the
inscribed stones of the temple but one remains, stranded on its way
to the town. It seemed to me rather more illegible than when I ﬁrst
saw it some years ago. I carried off Ahmed’s tablet and we tied up
under the shade of Kasr es Syad. On the way thither we saw in two
small boats about forty slaves going to Keneh. Aly told me that the
Khedive had said to Ahmed Pasha, (whom we sailed up with for
some days last year), that he wanted all the slaves to ﬁght at Suakim
and so Ahmed was sending them to the Mudereeyeh. The whole
village where our boat was moored in the summer, was ﬁlled with the
slaves of Ahmed and his brother Ibrahim. They lived on the land be-
tween Ibrahim’s palace and the bridge until Ismael bought that for a
palace, and moved them across. These slaves had married red women
until they were quite like the fellaheen. Soroor, our slave singer, says
he has not given his master anything for ﬁfteen years, but Moorgaan
says that when his master is out of work he gives him sometimes a
dollar and sometimes a guinea, because he was good to him when he
was a little boy. Moorgaan think she is safe enough in the boat, which
he is not going to leave, but what will he do at Cairo? Can’t he cook
for the Consul General? Soroor is a full brother of Haggi Hamed (they
say “full” here because most brothers are half), but had not the same
master.

December 11 We came on to the two tombs in the face of the moun-

tain which have invited me so many times; Nefady
climbed up to them and found no sign, as I guessed from near in-
spection with a glass, and we went on eastward half an hour before
reaching the famous tombs. That of Tauta of which a few lines are
given by Lepsius1 and Prisse, a year ago last summer had one side of
its front blown out by an economical seeker of stone. Ahmed, the
Shaykh of the Watchmen, pretended not to know his name. But
what remains is very interesting. I have seen in no tomb at Geezeh
or Sakkara the cutting up of animals worked out so fully and

 

I. Kasr e'Saiat (Chenoboskion), sec Lepsius. “Denkmﬁler.” Text. vol. II. Leipzig. 1904. pp. 177-18x.

491

