NOVEMBER 1885 TO MAY 1886]

LUXOR Among the Americans who went down Friday,
Monday was one who looked intensely out of yellowish
February 8, I886 brown eyes from under a thatch of yellow hair.
How the hair was attached I cannot tell, never
having seen her without a bonnet. She was introduced as Mrs.
N ..... by Toda who tells me that last winter Judge Batcheller and
he lived together and came to know her as an American widow, with
a beautiful little girl, nine years old, living at the Grand Hotel. She
wanted to go to Mme. Barrére’s ball; they both had to urge Mme. to
get her an invitation. The title of a Bavarian Count, penniless, who
is a Captain of Police in Cairo, struck her fancy; she had him much
about her and consulted them about marrying him. This intimacy
closed Cairene society to her, the courtship in no wise making up for
the Policemanship. One day at dinner she received a telegram and
made a scene. The dispatch was: “Losing strength. Come quickly if
you wish to see me. Welch.” This was from the American Consul at
Florence, whom she had represented as her ﬁancé. His wife was mad
and he was going to America to get a divorce from her. She sailed for
Italy at once and at Naples met him, sound and hearty, on the dock.
Indignant that he should have practiced such a trick upon her, she
would have nothing to do with him, and came back to Cairo and her
Count-policeman, who respects her ﬁve or six thousand dollars a
year income. After a summer in St. Moritz she again came back to
Cairo and is already on such a footing with our new Consul General
..... as to leave her little girl in his charge while she came to
Luxor. And she kindly offered to go to the Holy Land with Toda
after he leaves us. Isn’t she a Consul-Huntress?

I worked on Lepsius’ book in Karnak Friday and Saturday, and
Sunday looked among the texts uncovered in the Temple of Luxor.
Maspero thinks he will take to Boolak a ﬁne sphinx-coiﬂ’ured statue
of Ramses II which with several others mutilated, have been un-
earthed near the Mosque. The Mosque itself is to be taken away; the
Sheikh of the Mosque could not resist the temptation of having six
hundred pounds paid into his hand to build a new mosque with. To
have the spending of the money himself overcame his scruples; nay,
opened his eyes to the enormity of leaving the sacred building amid
these pagan images.

361

