[CHAPTER TWO

people there, nearly all Americans, and that was our celebration of

George’s birthday.

Thursday I went to the Tombs of the Kings on Khaleefey’s
brown camel; he walks well but trots fearfully hard, so there is not
much advantage in him. However I made him carry me up the moun-
tain on the return. Charmes went with me and I noted the Tombs of
Ramses IV, Meneptah and a part of that of Ramses IX.1 I ﬁnd that
they are nearly all made up of three or four or ﬁve books, from which
extracts are made, according to the taste of the compiler, in quantity
sufﬁcient to ﬁll the tomb. Sometimes the same extract is repeated.
The book on the Sarcophagus of Seti I in Sir John Soane’s Museum,
is a favorite; I ﬁnd more or less of it almost everywhere. M. Lefé—
bure,2 who is the director of the French School at Cairo, has trans-
lated this, but my two days’ work shows that he mistook the arrange-
ment. Dined in the evening at the Karnak Hotel, a better dinner than
at the other.

To-day I have worked on my yesterday’s tombs and helped Mrs.
Moulton to buy anteekeh. She wants a papyrus. Mr. Wm. Smith
Brown has returned from the South. I don’t know that I wrote you
how much M. Maspero was amused to hear him introduce himself
to me; “My name is Brown l” he said. And he was still more amused
when he heard it was Smith Brown. Ahmed, Mustapha’s son, does
fantaiseeyeh on his gray horse in the afternoon. Half the days thus
far here have been windy, a great contrast to last year. I wish I
could live over in the Tombs for a week or two; it takes near four
hours to go and come which spoils the day's work.

LUXOR Again there are American dahabeeyehs here and
Monday I dine with Mr. Smith Brown to-night.
February 27, 1882 Saturday I went to Karnak, and

Sunday I went to Karnak and to-day I have
hunted papyri and read the papers (the six Time: in the hotel) and
your three letters.

1. Nos. 2. 8 and 6 of Porter-Moss. “Topographical Bibliography". vol. I. pp. 3. 7 and 6.

2. Eugene Lefébure. French Egyptologist (1838—1908). See "Notice Biographique" by Ph. Virey. in "Bi-
bliothéque égyptologique.” vol. XXXIV. 1910. pp. I—XCI. The translation quoted here was pub-
lished in the ”Records of the Past" under the title "The Book of Hades." rat series. 1878. vol. X. pp.
85—134, and vol. XII. pp. 3-35; reprinted in the “Bibliotheque Egyptologique." loc. cit.. pp. 61—132 with
corrections from Lefébure.

I36

