[CHAPTER ONE

Saw Brugsch also in the afternoon and he showed me some things
which I had seen before and thought not worth buying.

This morning I have had my hair cut and got a piece of mosquito
stuff four metres by two and one-half for ten francs and some alcohol
to complete my photo outﬁt and tried to get a hammock and
couldn’t. Brugsch tells me to change in nowise dress and habits of
life from those of winter in Europe. I called at Mariette’s; the doc-
tors were just going away and his daughter came weeping to the
door; I left my card only; in spite of Mr. Maspero’s hopefulness the
general impression is that he will last but a day or two longer.

lVedneJday Day before yesterday evening, I spent with Pro-
7anuary 19, 1881 fessor Maspero at de Rochemonteix’s. All were
expecting Mariette not to outlast the night.
De Rochemonteix went over to see him and the French Consul
General came in. Mrs. de Rochemonteix is a nice lively body with
ﬂaxen yellow hair. M. Maspero has not yet his house and grows im-
patient; they assured me that they should have a room for me with a
bed long enough and wide enough, as though I were particularly
long and wide.

Yesterday morning I took the train for Sioot with Dr. \Varren’s
three ladies and the sick “Boston boy” (who is young Dr. Lanier of
Baltimore) and his sister and young Dr. Arthur Schilbach and his
young wife, whom I found copying hieroglyphics in the Museum.
We passed through Bedreshayn again and down along the pyramids
of Dashoor and Lisht and Meidoom, past the entrance to the Fayoom
on the West and the nome of the Hathor—Cow-Aphrodite on the
East, past the wicked nome unnamed in most pious lists,l past nomes
of Anubis, and of dogs, and of the wondrous tombs of Beni Hassan,
which I described across the sacred flood, and of Hathor—Diana, and
of Thoth and the eight primordial underworkers, and others more,
including crocodile-loving Manfaloot, until we came to the land of
Ap-matennu, the great city of Upper Egypt, beautiful Sioot. It was
a very hard day, hot and dusty, a trial for Dr. \Varren’s patient,
severe for Lanier and not good for my throat. At night, however, we
found an Arab who said he was Cookey man and took our luggage.

 

I. The wicked nome is the XIX of Upper Egypt; Oxyrhynchus. with the cult of God Set.

28

