[CHAPTER THREE

titles of books, which they may forget all about in Palestine and
Greece and Turkey and Italy where they are going on their way
home. While we were at dinner the noise they made getting on don-
key back for a moonlight ride to Karnak, was alarming. It takes a
great many Arabs to help ﬁll eleven side-saddles. And all the Arabs
and some of the donkeys make a noise continually. Mrs. Ames was
anxious to know if the American Mission Schools and churches here
did anything to better the condition of women. I could not say that
the women among the Presbyterian Copts were not treated just as
the women are among the Coptic Copts and very much the same as
among the Moslems. In my tomb researches yesterday I found a
Coptic weaver who hadjust married a little girl of eleven. She looked
an infant beside his big sister. My donkey-man explained to me that
women were good at eleven or twelve or thirteen and along up to
twenty, but after that they did not meet with his approbation. I am
very glad to hear you are having a good time and the weather is not

too bad. .

THE TOMB MAP I made up my Sheikh Abd el Qoornah map from
Saturday my notes of Thursday. Spite of all that has been
February 24, 1883 printed of these tombs, out of thirty, only ﬁve
had been mentioned by Champollion, three by
Lepsius and one by Brugsch. Of course many of them are much out of
repair, but there is much to learn from most of them both in de-'
signs and in hieroglyphs. At night I saw Mme. Auber. The “poison-
ing” by the bad water at Port Said seems to have been a terrible
case of smallpox, or at least to have had the same results. Her face
which was handsome is now frightfully ploughed up and one of her
eyes has a touch of brilliant scarlet. They and her complexion were
ﬁne and she used to get much comfort out of thinking so. This will
be a sore trial to her.

Sunday We all went over to Qoornah to the new tombl
February 25, 1883 which is to go to Boolak. It has very ﬁne orna-
ment in addition to the long hieratic text. I

think it will make one of the most attractive objects in the Museum.

I. Horhotep. See G. Maspero. “Guide to the Cairo Museum." Cairo. 1910. pp. 95—99: "The chamber was
broken into and plundered during the ﬁrst half of the XIX century, for Mr. \V’ilbour saw in the Abbott
Collection in New York a block with the name of the owner of this tomb. which must have come either
from the sarcophagus or from one of the walls."

222

