[CHAPTERSIX

hundred and thirty thousand dollars from England to begin with.
Brunner is a Unitarian and sat under W. H. Charming. A little Scotch
parson-doctor who has dwelt twenty years in Agra, improving on
Paul, is taking out a wife and a sister. His good stories amused even
an unsettled stomach. Others many, too many, French, Italian, Ger-
man, Greek, Armenian, Hindoo, Parsee, what not? One American
woman, who has married one of the Blackies, the great publishers of
Glasgow, Edinburgh, Dublin and London. A daughter of each came
with her to spend the winter in Cairo and Luxor for the (apparently
good) health of their aunt and stepmother. One of them was reading

“EPH PHA THA, Why Jesus Sighed.”

After ﬁve days, on the sixteenth, we saw the Pharos again, they
recognized me in the Custom-house and going through ruins and
many new buildings. I did not ﬁnd Judge Kinsman at the Hotel
Abbat. He is so genial that the house seemed empty. We shall see him
ins/2411a}: in April. I went over my alphabetical list of provisions for
the dahabeeyeh with Nicolai Pappa, the Greek grocer whom the Ab-
bat recommended, and put down his prices, and had a pleasant gos-
sipy evening with the Barringers mainly at the Batchellers’ expense.

CAIRO A little Italian woman married to an English
Wednesday Ofﬁcer amused me on the train, also the charge
November 17, 1886 for baggage. My one hundred seventy-ﬁve kilo-
. grammes in France (three hundred and eighty-
ﬁve pounds) grew here to be four hundred and three robl (four hun-
dred eight pounds) and here I paid six dollars and eighty cents (one
hundred thirty—six piastres) for bringing it one hundred and thirty-
one miles against eleven dollars and ﬁfty cents (ﬁfty-seven and one-
half francs) for ﬁve hundred forty miles from Paris to Marseilles. For
myself the ticket was twenty-one dollars in France and ﬁve dollars
here. So you see in Egypt baggage lS appreciated almost as much as
humanity. Consuls take their trunks 1n the car with them. English
manage the railroad.

At Shepheard’s there are few changes. The same man meets me at
the train, the same porter greets me, the same clerk gives me almost
the same room—to the north, because it is cooler and there are fewer
mosquitoes. I look out on the same trees with their great red and

408

