[CHAPTER FOUR

where I copied some Greek inscriptions to send to Maspero. Toward
night we with Pomeroy, drove to Pompey’s Pillarl and there I found
(not in the guide—books) a huge black granite stone from some build-
ing of Seti Ist—placed under the monument, and, a little to the
southwest, fragments of colossal statues in black granite also of
Ramses II and his son Meneptah. Farman would like to send home
the fragments of Meneptah and build them together in Central Park;
but I suppose if he asked for them, they would become valuable
though now used to grease cartwheels.

Tuesday At coffee I looked over a French judgment Farman
ﬂpril 22, 1884 had written to be delivered this morning; it was
very well done, better than I expected. The Batchel-

lers came last evening and Mr. Batcheller told us how all the French
colony were at the station to see them of? and all the English to see
Sir Evelyn Baring off and what a lively time they had. It did not
seem to enter his mind that perhaps M. Barrere came to do honor to
his English colleague, and not entirely on account of Mrs. and Miss
Batcheller. Mrs. Farman had been down with the Batchellers to the
little French boat early, but she prattled to me till ten of all sorts of
things including Chester Loomis’ wife whom she knows. Then I
started with my ﬂat trunk and my pigskin and my old bag and strap
and chair and umbrella, six precious things and all agog to Pome-
roy’s lodgings. For he has two rooms up three ﬂights and on the sea,
where he hopes to be toned up by the air, while he takes his meals at
the club. He got in and we drove a long prosaic way to the vessel; it is
not halfso interesting as to go oﬁ'in a boat to the steamer. But every-
thing must be Britishized. We found the Tanjore a big boat and they
had given me a small room alone forward of the boilers. We met Gen.
Wood, here to see his family off. He shook his head ominously; they
had expected trouble on this festival; but they had taken great pre-
cautions and the rascals dare not stir; they actually staid at home
and did not celebrate their feast. Poor Egypt! She is a donkey with a
sore back, but with no hope of throwing of}. her rider. The big ship
glided out of the harbor and away from the catacombs and the eight-

 

1. EV. Breccia. ”Alexandrea ad Aegyptum." Bergamo. 1922. pp. 116 and 1:9.

314

