FEBRUARY 1884. T0 MAY 1884.]

watch-ticking was no test of the hearing of voices and had me stop
my good car and found I could then hear an ordinary word only
about a yard away. Then he set a tuning fork ringing and touched
the handle to the top of my head; it sounded louder in the deaf ear.
Then he said the nerve was good and then he fooled around a little
more and then said the inner ear passage (the Eustachian tube, I
suppose) was obstructed by catarrh and if he could cure that the
hearing would be in great measure restored; if not, the obstruction
would gradually invade the other ear. Then he put a conductor, a
rubber tube with two hard rubber ends, between one of his ears and
my bad one and I stopped my good one and he put a tube with an
air-bag at the other end of it into my deaf nostril, and then I took
some water in my mouth and then he pinched my nose and
squeezed the air-bag while I swallowed the water, and it seemed to
start something clear out to the deaf ear. Ditto four or ﬁve times.
Then I could hear the same word ﬁve or six times. He asked if there
was not less ringing; I could not say there was, and can’t yet. Then
he gave me a prescription ...... Tuesday I took 1t to him and
he ran a hard rubber tube away up my nostril and connected our
ears as before so as to hear what was going on inside and then
squirted in this benzine smelling stuff. Then he tried to ﬁnd out how
far I could hear a stage whisper. The effect was remarkable. I could
hear ever so much, but it does not seem to me to come in so much at
the car as through the side of the head. This he has repeated now
\Vednesday and to-day, today without hurting me any. This morn-
ing I woke with the sensation of having that ear open. Today I went
to the Italian church to hear Mozart’s Requiem, done for the bene-
ﬁt of the dead empress, a Sardinian princess. It was the best music
I ever heard in a church and I found that my bad ear hears some.
Day before yesterday I heard Ed. Strauss’ Court Band and Erzherzog
Ernst’s Regiments’s Band in the Volksgarten and I thought Strauss’
not the better. They played much of Johann Strauss and little Ed.
danced as he led. In the Church of St. Stephen I saw a big mass Mon-
day. My dear St. Barbara’s Chapel has been quite usurped by the
Virgin since this Francis Joseph put up his votive altar to her for his
deliverance from his enemies (that is Kossuth). It don’t say any-
thing about the Russians; of course an R. C. Virgin couldn’t have

323

