[CHAPTER ONE

yond, which you know from Mr. Bridgman’s picture. His (the
Syrian’s) wife is a lively French woman, now a little frowzy, but she
is not yet a landlady. At this Hotel we hear all sorts of stories about
them, naturally.

I have found among the antiquity vendors some papyri; Mo-
hammed Mohassib1 has fragments of two hieratic and one unrolled
hieroglyphic “Book of the Dead” worth perhaps £5 apiece, for
which he wants £40 to £60 each. His partner and protector is Musta-
pha Aga’s son Ahmed, but this is known to few Arabs even. Todros,
the German Consul, has a large collection, which, his son tells me,
they keep for the convenience of travelers, not being merchants. Mrs.
Freeman paid him £11 for two scarabs worth eleven dimes. Abd-el-
Megid,2 whose consular protector I do not yet know, took me to see
Greek Mr. Yenni’s little £60 papyrus yesterday. It is unrolled, of
ﬁne writing and the end is broken off. I forget whether I told you of
the ﬁne funerary papyrus I saw at Goornah, price £ 3 50. I wrote a de-
scription of it to Brugsch and found his answer on my arrival; he
would hesitate to give £3 5 or £40. I had estimated it at £20. The
man who took us to it, Abd—er-Rasool, “Servant of the Prophet” is
Mustapha Aga’s man for Goornah. Brugsch adds: “I wish you a good
journey and good results of your studies. You will see that Thebes
must always be the store school of modern Egyptology. Do not for—
get the Tombs of the Kings where are to be found so many unknown
texts. Mariette died on the eighteenth of January after long suffer-
ings. They will put up in Cairo a monument ‘To the Successor of
Champollion.’ M. Maspero is appointed the director of the museum
and the excavations. This is all the news here.”

The brevity of this tells much. Brugsch had the Khedive’s promise
of Mariette’s succession; he was sure of it. But while the Consul-
General of Germany was out shooting, the Consul-General of France,
backed by England, who expects France to support her when her men

I. Mohammed Mohassib. Arab dealer in antiquities (1843-1928). See P. E. Newberry. in the "Journal of
Egyptian Archaeology." London. vol. XIV. 1928. 184: “it was the inadequately supervised excavations
at Thebes and elsewhere that laid the foundations of his success as a merchant. In the early eighties of
the last century he opened his shop at Luxor. and through his hands have passed many of the most
important monuments that now enrich the museums of Europe and America.” See also E. A. Wallis
Budge. "By Nile and Tigris." London, 1920.

2. Abd-el-Megld is quoted with Mohammed Mohassib as a reliable dealer at Luxor in Baedeker. “Egypt."
1898. p. 226.

48

