DECEMBER 1882 TO APRIL 1883]

now remember; he gave them all just like an old grave; and how he
had in time past been sent to Loomahn (the galleys, usually the White
Nile) for killing ﬁve men who stole his wheat and how he paid three
thousand guineas down there to get away and a thousand guineas
here that he might not be taken again. And how last summer he
killed two more men and is now in irons in Soohag. But his son Mo-
hammed was a very good man.

THE ABYDOS The Pyramid which is just in front of the south horn

PYRAMID of the mountain as seen from Abydos turned out to be

a miniature edition of the little pyramid we paid so
much attention to last year,1 and like the Pyramid of Koolah its north
side turns so far west as almost to lose its northness—in fact, 42
degrees. The highest stones remaining are only sixteen feet above the
level and it is about sixty feet square rising in four well deﬁned steps.
They have dug into the centre and down to the rock and found noth-
ing, as we did last year at Mohameereeyeh. T wo little brick walls
either side the north entrance are puzzling. Maspero suggests they
indicate an attempt at a temple, but I have thus far seen Pyramid
temples only on the east side. We rode along the edge of the desert,
fringed with marguerites and white clover, and I ate a handful of
Naabet, cherries in size and stone, which look and taste like an apple;
the tree has a domestic air, very like a pear tree. In Abydos Piehl
complained that he could not ﬁnd the signs of North and South in
the decoration. I had not looked for them before but I found them to
be strange. The pillars in the two great pillar halls are regarded as be-
longing, each pair of rows, to the vaulted room to which they lead; in
fact they are decorated as if there were seven temples side by side;
while each pillar hall, considered as a whole, has a different North
and South for the list of nomes of North and South Egypt. On the
pillars for the South is the lotus and on the pillars for the North is the
papyrus decoration.

We breakfasted at Seleeb’s house. The son who had been taken for
the army was sent on board a vessel when the Captain found he had
one too many men and this son was the one too many. So he left.
Probably the Captain had good sound reasons for his discovery,

 

I. For the pyramid. see D. Randall-Maciver and A. C. Mace, ”El Amrah and Abydos." London, 1902. pp.
75-76.

243

