[CHAPTER FIVE

with the Guy Lussacs. Mme. rides well and enjoyed it very much;
she makes rather infantine attempts at speaking English. But then
she is “only nineteen years old.” We went in one hour and forty min-
utes to Seleeb’s house. The old man seems much older; he is less in the
management of the house and Gad is more.

At the Temple of Seti we found our ﬁve precursors. Maspero and
Bouriant were busy copying Phenician inscriptions for M. Renan. I
compared the painted colors in the offerings of cloth with the names
given in the texts and sketched the bas-reliefs in one of the seven
vaulted rooms, that of Ammon. Insinger took us in a group in the
column hall and we rode through the Ramses temple to feast on the
cakes of Seleeb. They were garnished with a lamb roasted whole and
a turkey and some minor things and then without seeing more we set
out on our three hours’ ride to Girgeh. The country shows nothing
novel except the long brick dykes of Botros, the Copt who was
richer than Aboo Stayt, of unhappy memory. A new Mohammed
Hassan, who donkey-boyed me, told me Botros had ten thousand
feddans and Aboo Stayt eight thousand, ﬁgures varying much from
the old Md. Hassan’ 5, three years ago. Botros has a new house 1n
Belianeh and he 18 three consuls 1n Girgeh and I am told there are
four of him.

The yellow light of sunset gilded the minarets of Girgeh and we
were glad to see the white smoke stack over the bank with promise
of supper and rest. A Mlle. Blin, who teaches the girl children of the
huge Coptic Consul of France, Abd-el-Noor, was visiting the Gré-
bauts, much like them in beauty.

Sunday We, minus three Grébauts and plus two Guy
March 14, 1886 Lussacs, paraded about the big Abd-el-Noor, and
his garden and the mosques of Girgeh all the morn-
ing. In a corner of one which is all in ruin, I noticed some scores of
nautical ex votos, ﬂags and boats of any size up to three yards long.
The largest boat was framed with stalks of palm-leaves and covered
with tarred canvas, lateen-rigged and dropping to pieces with an-
cientness.
Then we steamed away to Ekhmeem, where they told us the good
miller, M. Frénay, had gone down to Tahtah to help Christen a new

378

