[CHAPTER FIVE

fresh Agnew’s eyewash, and carbol glycerine, and nails and hooks I
came down and set my domicile in this little room two metres square,
which I had on the second and third voyages. My things go in
handily and I know where to ﬁnd them 1n the dark.

Mr. Middlemass wanted me to propose to Maspero that he would,
if Maspero would leave the idol at Alexandria, put it on a pedestal
six feet high in the Place des Consuls, and surround it by a suitable
fence; and that if Maspero wished it in Cairo, he would put it on a
railway truck for twenty pounds. I promised him an account of the
statue and he jogged my memory with a telegram Friday night. To-
day I send him this:

Bea’rerlxeyn, 7anuary 9, 1886
“Mr. Arthur G. C. Middlemass-Bey

“My dear Sir: I was sorry to ﬁnd, last Tuesday, when I arrived in Cairo, that I
was too late with your two proposals to M. Maspero; he had already taken steps in
the matter which could not well be retraced. He expressed surprise that Ahmed did
not at ﬁrst show you his authority; and his anxiety, as soon as money can be had for
the purpose, to make good his title of ‘Director of the Museums of Egypt’ by found-
ing one at Alexandria. I am sure that if the Alexandrians would exert themselves or
inﬂuence the Government to put Up a suitable building, he would do his best to make
it immediately attractive.

“The Colossus of Ramses II found at Aboukir, which you were kind enough to
show me there New Year’s Day and again last Sunday, is of importance to the
archeologist and of the highest interest to the Biblical student. To the latter it was
made by the Pharaoh of Moses for the temple in which Joseph’s father-in-law was
priest, and the maker’s son who afterwards inscribed his own name on the standard
is none other than the Pharaoh of the Exodus.

“The Colossus is of Syenite and ten feet high. King Ramses II stands with a
scroll in his right hand and in his left a massive standard surmounted by a face and
sundisk. On the belt which carries his dagger is his throne-name. He wears a thick
wig of short curls; the uraeus, which marks him King, is broken. On the back of the
pillar, for this is a statue carved on the front of a pillar, is this inscription:

“ ‘The Horus Sun, Bull of Victory, Loving the Truth-Goddess, King of Upper and
of Lower Egypt, User-maat—Ra-setepm-Ra (Throne-name of Ramses II) son of the
Sun, Rameses Mer-Amon . . . .’ The rest is lost by the flaking off of the stone.
The second line is like the ﬁrst except that instead of ‘Loving the Truth Goddess’
we have: ‘Rich in Years.’

“On the side of the Pillar, behind the left leg is the inscription which we could not
get at New Year’s Day, and for which you raised the statue Sunday. It reads:

“ ‘The King of Upper and of Lower Egypt, User-Ma-at-Ra, Setep—n-Ra, Son of
the Sun, Rameses Mer-Amon, Loving Toom, the Lord of On (Heliopolis).’

“The Colossus was, therefore, made for the famous temple of Heliopolis, the vast
enclosure of which we now see about its lone obelisk. A century after this stone was

342

