[CHAPTER FOUR

found before our eyes and she gave it to me. On the inner sides of the
north, east and south walls are inclines up which you might drive a
coach and four if you had it, the inclination being one in eight. This
fortress is very old; from the Twelfth Dynasty we have a stele
telling of the reparation of the walls.l The vulture goddess of this
place, Nekheb, is she who seven times out of ten is seen over the head
of the King, protecting him with her wings, and this stronghold, with
the smaller one across the river, were the warders of Egypt against
the Mookhdis of Pharoah’s days. Maspero was hoping that his
architect and his artist would make a better plan of it than has yet
been made, but they seem to think this only a loaﬁng excursion. This
and the inappreciativeness of the Consul and the positive stupidity
of the Arabist Dulac, and the failure to get out Ay’ s sarcophagus and
Mme. s sore bronchiae for which he has no medicine, have quite dis-
gusted him and he has retired 1nto work on a new edition of his little
history. Next year he thinks he will have only Charmes and Amelia
B. Edwards and me. I do not believe Charmes will come; I think he
is more comfortable in Mentone; he likes to go out to dinner.

Monday Brugsch and I went to the Grottoes; he photo-
Marc]: 3, 1884 graphed that of Pa Hir and I compared texts already
copied in that of Beba, the man who gave wheat

and barley to his townsmen in the many years of famine. This of
course was the famine Jew Joseph took advantage of to enslave the
Egyptians. We worked half an hour and then back to the steamer
and down stream again to Esneh where in the hot hours of the day
we coaled; there was time neither before nor after breakfast to do
much, so I did not go to the temple. The Consuless and the Consul
came on board and stayed with us till we reached Erment. Mme.
Lequeur is seventeen, pleasant and vivacious with a rich voice,
prognathous; indeed, her eyes and mouth bespeak several drops of
African, perhaps Moorish. . . . . . She was married last spring
and returned to Cairo the last of July in the midst of the cholera;
otherwise her husband seems to me zero and small type at that. The
exercise of talking with her three hours tired Mme. Maspero very
much. The Consuless wore a summer dress covered with coarse imi-

 

I. Stele: see J. H. Breasted. “Ancient Records of Egypt.” Chicago, 1906, Vol. I. 5 741-2. 1) 324.
2 8 2

