DECEMBER 1882 TO APRIL 1883]

Sunday We all went up to the Stabl Antarl as every great
747mm“)! 28, 188 3 cavern is called in Arabic-speaking countries.
The other day I found the Captain reading one
of the numberless volumes of his exploits. We did not copy a long in-
scription because M. Maspero thought it had been published some-
where. But we did go about the many tombs and my donkey went to
the top of the mountain from which the View is, I think, ﬁner even
than from the pyramids or the Mokattam behind the Citadel at
Cairo. At our feet (the donkey’s and mine), walled Sioot lay like a
toy—town with toy minarets, a brown beauty set in the wide green
plain which stretched north in easy eye-reach a dozen miles to Man-
faloot, spotted with villages, and then as much farther in confused
brown and green; east across Egypt, here at its widest, almost ten
miles, to the stately mountain which answers to our own footstool
and south over more brown and green to the valley of Gaou el
Kebeer where the Greeks recognized and worshipped Antoeus.
Through all ran the silver stream with its long ﬁle of white sharp
sails, the fecund river which for a myriad years has made this desert
to blossom. The clear, keen air, like a good glass, made the far seem
near. We enjoyed it, I perhaps more than my companion, and then
looking a little at the broken pottery with which the whole top of the
mountain is strewed we came down and into the town. I stopped at a
carpenter’s shop and with the aid of a ten-year-old boy, who had a
six-year-old boy to help him, made a shutter for my window with a
hole in it for the red glass of my lamp. The Yankee carpenter drew so
well that I had to drive the audience away several times. The boys
had rather good saws and planes, but their wooden squares were not
quite true. However, it ﬁts and with some black paper over the
cracks and holes, will work. The wood was from packing-boxes and
they seemed to be glueing it together into pieces out of which they
made .mndooks, Egyptian trunks.

While aloft I saw the steam-towed dahabeeyeh of the Red Prince2
and in the evening Brugsch came over to see us. He gave an amusing
account of the variety and continuity of his duties, how he was held
responsible for the route, the cookery and the sandbanks and how
happy he would be could he go with us and do antiquities as much as

 

I. The Tomb of Hapi-zefa.
2. Prince Frederick Charles.

201

