NOVEMBER 1887 TO MAY I888]

tell us when boats are coming toward us. The room looks big as I
write here alone in the evening, between Gizeh and Bedresheyn. Last
evening I took back Dr. Lansing’sl proof-sheets which he gave me be-
fore he went to Mansoorah. In his article he tries to show the Egyp-
ticity of the Pentateuch by the Pharaonic words found in the He-
brew of it, which are not found in the other Semitic languages. As he
knows Egyptian speech remarkably well and Hebrew well, his con-
tributions are important. Miss Thompson will be glad to see you
again.

This morning I went about much more, supplied some gaps in the
provisions Rudinis put in yesterday, forgot to pay my hotel bill in my
hurry and brought Professor Toy to the boat. He did not come with
me, nor did Miss Black and her Mother, who left the father, greatly
better with the younger sister to see me off, or rather to see the boat.
But Mr. John Rogerson of Croxdale Hall, Durham, who has the big-
gest blast furnaces in the world and makes railroads and even
bridges and steel ships, and his daughter, and Mrs. Daniels and Miss
Constance Naden, poetess and evolutionist, did all the way to Gizeh
whither their carriage came. They seemed to enjoy it very much,
though things were not at all ship-shape. The island of Rodah was,
however, and there were clouds enough to make a glorious setting for
Ismael’s great palace and garden. And we made them go down by the
new back stairway into the felucca, just as if the Seven Hat/107‘: were
a big ship and had her name painted all over her. Then I visited Aboo
Shanab when we tied up and he came to see me. But not till after I
had dined sumptuously all alone and agreed with myself that Moor-
gaan is a better cook than they have at Shepheard’s.

I found time this morning to call on Guy Lussac and leave him a
note, not ﬁnding him in. But Daninos was there, said he had bought
only seven or eight and not forty cuneiform tablets of Tano, who
told him they were from Abydos, and asked me to let him know
when my wife and daughter were coming that he might meet them
at the wharf. And going thither a big man accosted me whom I
know and whose card is: Dr. M. Mounil Bey, “President du Tribunal

 

I. G. Lansing. "The Pentateuch—Egypticity and Authenticity" in “The Expositor." 1888. Sept... pp. 219-
331.

441

