FEBRUARY 1884. T0 MAY 1884.]

good a business man to have his business managed by Englishmen.
A Frenchman and a Pole are his head men here .

Tuesday “7e left Sioot early, went up to see Gebel Aboo
April I, 1884 Fayda, which powder is trying to disﬁgure, and again
to see the caves of Sheikh Said and are now, having
passed Tell el Amarna unseen, approaching Rodah. Here we ﬁnd
Guy Lussac and spend an hour in the homelike house of Mme.
Blanc. The Pizare d’ﬂ/exana’rie arrives in the afternOon with the news
that Gordon’s sortie is unsuccessful. Already we had been told in the
IV‘Iudeereeyeh at Sioot that Gordon had been decapitated and they
who told it showed no regret. It is, I believe, what every sane man
not born in England, who knew anything of these matters has ex—
pected; if it be not true and he escapes, it will count something for the
efficacy of Mayer. When Admiral Hewett put a price on Osman Dig-
na’s head,1 he was striking at Gordon’s and if he did not know it,
that only shows how insularity can blind its victims ......

W ednerday We started early and then began a small ﬂood in my
A’pri! 2, 1884 room. A furious Norther blew the wheel spray in
under the shutter of the left window and I had to
get up early. But things dry quickly here and we came down merrily
tugging Aly’s tub which now has a flock of sheep and a donkey added
to its dead stock. We got aground for an hour in the afternoon, but
made more than ninety miles, to Bibeh. There I went into the village
and Massiba Bolos took me about in the gathering dusk. He has been
two years at the American school in Sioot and two more at Cairo and
comes from his home in the F ayoom to teach the eighty—boy school
which the Coptic priests have attached to their pretty church. He
receives from the scholars twenty—seven and a half dollars a month of
which the priest gives him ﬁfteen dollars and ﬁve dollars to an assis—
tant. He has a wife and a widowed sister with three children and ﬁnds
it a little difﬁcult to dress them all. He called on me in the evening
and we had a talk mainly in Arabic, though he teaches English.
Result, I dispatched two kangaroos last night and,

 

1. “A former slave-dealer at Suakin. named Osman Digna. was appointed to be the Mahdi's Emir"—-Earl
Cromer. "Modern Egypt." London. 1908, vol. I. p. 396.

303

l.‘ J l l lEl’ I _.' Air ‘ 5'. ll l 91 44,3. l

