NOVEMBER 1887 TO MAY 1888]

dust unless he had travelled further on the same road. I did once,
when we were regularly hoed out once every two hours. Glad enough,
were they to get on the old saddles, adapted from Central Park to the
Egyptian donkey, but still retaining intricacies of security and stir-
rup-leather which, alone of Egyptians, Nefady has been able to
master. The four trunks, for the transport of which this hundred
miles eight dollars had been paid (these Britishers take everything
they can get), were soon on the backs of four porters and we formed a
caravan without camels and began our procession through the little
place and along the narrow canal overgrown with willows and aca-
cias. There was a commotion in the village. We were hardly received
by the black Rais Mohammed when a lazy old fellow, with an im-
pudent young Efendi came on board. The red cap had asked us if we
were “American Mission” in the village and now the old man began
to tell that he was a Brotestant1 and how when he ﬁrst saw me he felt
that I was his brother. I cold-watered his Brotestanism and got rid of
him so that we could have our dinner; however, he is not an utter
Philistine, because he has-a stone somewhere with a maktoobah2 on
it, probably a slab. The Effendi told me that Dr. Lansing had told the
old Brotestant he ought to build the stone into his new house, but
that he did not, fearing that there was some wicked unpresbyterian-
ism in it. i

Lottie looked around, saw the changes and then: “0, I wish we had
more folks and less room.” You absentees'ought to feel ﬂattered, for

the room is very handy.

Christmas Day We have spent the whole day in putting together

and directing and stamping more than two hundred
and ﬁfty New Year’s Cards. So the south wind, stronger than I have
seen it before on the voyage has not affected us much on this twen-
tieth day of it. Aboo Shanab was seen day before yesterday morning
at Feshn, but he cometh not. We ate our turkey, which Moorgaan has
been getting ready for several days, in great comfort. Last evening
Moorgaan sent in that he would like to say salaam to the “Sittat” and
he came in with a jacket which I had not seen before. Then he told us

 

I. "Brotestant"—There is no P in Arabic; they say Bosta for Post.
a. Maluoobah - inscription.

45I

