NOVEMBER 1889 TO MARCH 1890]

their bites. Mr. Schuyler, the new Consul General, has been very
friendly; he went on board Abd el Haadi’s boat last night for a voy-
age up the river, with a Mr. Lynch at whose invitation he 81 Mr.
Brunner and I went to the Arab Circus one night and were so much
pleased that we all and half a dozen more went again last night. It
was a joy to see the way in which the simple tricks of old circus
times made Egyptians laugh, old and young, especially the very
young, who sat in front on the ground with their chins on the bar-
rier. Mr. Brunner said that in England the men would have taken
the front places for themselves. Ned has sketched the juggler who
performs after the noon meal, on the Shepheard platform, and his
little boy FilFil (Pepper), who now is his vice, the wall-eyed daughter
whom Victor will remember, being married and working on her own
account. Little F ilFil was there last night and told me that he left his
father and sister in the house asleep and they thought he was asleep,
too. He is about three feet high, but got into a ﬁght with four other
children, coping with them all by means of head, one foot and two
ﬁsts, and spent his money freely on sweets, offering some to Linnie.
Mr. Goodwin’s friends came Thursday night and Friday forenoon I
took them to see boats and by noon they had engaged Aboo Shanab’s
(Insinger’s), and Hassan Speke as dragoman. They will be ready to
sail up with us, probably about Friday. Mr. Berkeley has been ready
for some days, but the wind is obstinately south, so Dr. Worthington,
who is with them again this year, comes to the hotel every day.
Abdoo, our last waiter, has been at work two days; he is to be
helped by his brother-in-law. They are cleaning and putting things
in order. Marcus Simiaka is in often greatly to the advantage and
pleasure of Ned and the girls; I am busy about the boat and the ﬁx—
ings and Lottie has a chance to rest. I have bought a Greek tablet a
graceful woman and child with these words thereunder: “Myro
prosper and farewell and Artemidora, the daughter prosper and
farewell.”

Orr WASTA We came on board Saturday the twenty-ﬁrst of De-

cember, 1889, and waited patiently during six days of
south wind. Monday Mamma had a few folk to tea: Professor Sayce
and his friend Robertson, General Winslow and wife, just back on

541

