DECEMBER 1882 TO APRIL 1883]

LISHT This morning there was a sound of donkeys
Monday coming on board and then we began to
74711447“)! 22, 1883 move away up the peerless river through rare
sprinkles of rain. When shall we get away from

these English drops? We think we ought to sacriﬁce Charmes’ pith
helmet, but know not whether to burn it to the Sun or throw it to
the River God. From Mataanye we donkeyed, Mme. Maspero and
Mr. Vassalli with us this time, across to the pyramids of Lishtl. The
couloir of the southern is open; that is, you corkscrew through man-
holes till you get beside it and then they have broken through the
solid limestone beside it a way two and a half feet square down to a
granite cut—off, where they have broken into the couloir and gone
down in all some ninety feet. The last thirty they have had to break
in pieces two long granite obelisk-like stones which were slid down
one after the other to hold the fort. They are now hammering away
at a third, and hope to have it all ready to open when we come back.
This pyramid looks only about ten degrees west of north, less than
our pyramids of yesterday or the day before. Then I found Mo-
hammed Shayn’s dirk and pistols belted to a small boy; for safety’s
sake I took the caps off. I have since bought a dozen of M. Shayn
for a piastre so that I may hereafter take of? ten more. This reminds
me that Rooby yesterday in the Elder Pepi’s pyramid asked me if
among the hieroglyphs there was Allah. I showed him the sign for
God. Then he asked if the Prophet was there. I explained that this
was only the year I 300 of the Hegira while these hieroglyphs were
ﬁve thousand years old. He seemed satisﬁed especially when I
showed him how plural the Gods were, the sign being often eighteen
times repeated and how Mohammed had changed it so that since his
time Egypt believed in but one God. Then he learned half a dozen

letters; we will see if he remembers them two months hence.

From the southern pyramid of Lisht we rode half an hour to the
northern, where the people are at work while the granite-breakers are
mauling the southern. Not much progress has been made yet. But
from the top I had a glorious View. Away north across the pyramids
of Dashoor, along the valley to the Citadel and the Mokattam range

 

I. The pyramids of Lisht of the XIIth dynasty. excavated by the Metropolitan Museum of Art since 1907 .
For the older researches see G. Maspero. “Premier rapport sur les F ouilles exécutées en Egypte de 188 I-
1885" in “Bibliothéque Egyptologique.” vol. I. Paris. 1893. pp. I48—149.

I95

