[CHAPTERONB

and he had found for me, a good thing to do among the thousand
Tombs of Thebes. It shows the heretic king Amenophis IV with the
emblems of his Unitarian faith, which have hitherto been supposed
untolerated in Thebes. It needed excavation and I set ﬁve men at
work and went off to Deir—el—Bahari where I met the Mudir and his
party, come over the mountain from the Tombs of the Kings. After
lunch we examined the stable of the Hathors and he and I started off
to see some tombs, several others besides my excavation. The digging
was ﬁnished and deserted and we set to work to copy the precious in—
scriptions. Soon Abd-er-Rasool appeared with coffee and a cloud of
curious Arabs and when we had ﬁnished we sat a quarter of an hour
in the grave of N6 fer/zotep which Maspero has translated from Dii—
michen 3 copy, and thought how strange things had come to pass
since we had studied over this same text in my book in his little room
in the Boulevard St. Germain. Then we came down to the Rames-
seum and the rest joined us and we journeyed across the plain and
the ford and the Gezeereh to the river where my little boatman was
waiting for me. Saturday I was so late that he walked near a mile
across the sandy island to meet me. In the evening I went with Mr.
and Mrs. and two Misses Hubbard and a Russian Prince to dine Arab
fashion with Mustapha. Before dinner Mustapha told me that Abd-
er—Rasool had been arrested on the order of our Mudir and was in
prison. I think it is a mistake, but perhaps he knows what I do not. I
shall try to get the poor man out. DeRochemonteix is savage against
Mustapha and this seems a blow at him since Abd-er—Rasool is his
servant and not otherwise of importance. Emil Brugsch too is in—
clined to be very brutal in treatment of the Arabs; but our friend will
get all the blame. The dinner was curious; Ahmed carved a whole
lamb and an enormous turkey and an apple pie and other things
many, all with the thumb and three ﬁngers of his black right hand. I
had a good appetite and the viands were good and well cooked. The
young ladies did not have good appetites. Mrs. Hubbard thought
when old Mustapha handed her a nice bit he squeezed it rather more
in the palm of his hand than was necessary.

I. Neferhotep no. so. Porter-Moss. “Topographical Bibliography," vol. 1. pp. 82-83. The translation was
made by Maspero in his Cours du Collége de France 1878—1879 and published in the "Journal Asiatique."
1880, under the title: “ i'itude sur quelques peinturcs ct sur quelques textes relatifs aux funéraillcs."
reprinted in “Etudes Egyptiennes." vol. 1. Paris. 1879. pp. 172—177.

66

