OCTOBER 1881 TO APRIL 1882]

four walls were covered with the only complete copy known of a
book of which I know a hundred fragmentary copies, the Book of the
Underworld, the Story of the Voyage of the Sun through the Nether-
land from Sunset to Sunrise, with pictures and description of his
barque and his attendants and the personages who dwell along the
banks. This is the earliest text known as yet. It was written large in
cursive hieroglyphics and a copy of it would be of inestimable value
to me just now when I am trying to reconstruct the book from the
fragments scattered in papyri and sarcophagi and ﬁgurine boxes.
But it is too late. Time or the traveller have stripped the stucco on
which it was written from the greater part of the walls and those
parts which Time, not being over six feet high, could not reach, hap-
pen to be just those of which I have assembled the most and most
perfect copies. The Third Hour, which Lepsius copied, has had the
personages of the central register cut out. If time serves we shall try
to save, by copying, what is left. On the way back Charmes fell into
the water, but did not take cold; it was the sacred water.

Monday The Karnak soldier Aly Effendi returned last
7anuary 23, 1882 night from Taoud with the Usertesen offering
Table which the Sheikh was willing to sell for

forty francs to a buyer with several soldiers at his back, and so to-
day I took him with two soldiers and Said and started for Temple F.
After a little way I noted that the soldiers were gone and sent back
for them. When we reached Karnak Aly and the two soldiers went to
look up the culprits, while I took Said to the Temple and showed him
what I wanted done. Since I was there they have thrown down the
walls and brought back a few stones. After an hour Aly came with-
out the two soldiers and without the culprits. He said he did not
know them or their names and that they had been before the We—
keel who had set them free. I told him I would report that to the
Wekeel, and went over to the big temple. After an hour he appeared
and said seven of the men were ready. But it was breakfast time and
I thought he and the rest of them needed a little more frightening
before we could proceed usefully. So I came back, found Naville,
breakfasted and reported to the VVekeel. The Wekeel, after coffee,
suggested that he ought to have a complaint against all the men; the

119

