[CHAPTER NINE

cartouche of Ptolemy IV, Philopator. The unknown King of my
stele bothers us greatly. The character of the inscription puts it in
Ptolemaic or Roman time and how a King not a Ptolemy or an
Emperor could have reached the eighteenth year of his reign, passeth
understanding.

February 14, 1890 We started early, made two miles and stopped

wind bound near the Berkeleys. During our stay
at Elephantine I bought sundry scraps of papyri and the folk
showed us new places where they ﬁnd it, one in some brick walls un-
der a stratum of fragments of Eighteenth Dynasty stones. Some of
these papyri are of the Twelfth Dynasty style. The old man from
Kalabsheh, of whom I had bronzes last year, brought me another
chisel and another ring with ears. The Sailors say that it is to go on
the top of a mast, the ears being to tie ropes in. Professor Sayce went
up on the west shore, north of the Convent and found more inscrip-
tions, and more of the Scribe Thoth-m-feastl, whom we had found
several times. Dr. Worthington brought lizards for Ned to paint and
Linnie and Dora went to the British Camp on the invitation of ofﬁ-
cers Cunningham and Judge who had visited us repeatedly. In the
night we had the heaviest and most continuous rain I have seen in

Egypt. The deck leaked only 1n the back room and there but little.

February 15, 1890 We tied up this morning, after warming the wet

men by a few hours’ row, about six miles south
of Ombos, Where Robertson found a huge cartouche of Apries in a
quarry on the east bank and Sayce an inscription of Rekh-ma-ra,
who has the ﬁnest private Tomb in Qoornah, on the west”. Cook’s
new steamer, Rames'e: the Great, went up. At night I got the folk up
at three A. M. to see the Southern Cross and Ned sketched it. It
was brighter than last year, the sky having been washed for this
occasion.

Fearuary I6, 1890 From Kom Ombos with the men of the Timsaah,
I went a mile southeast to Shoteb where we

found tombs, and digging out one, fragments of a mummy case; I

 

I. Thoth-m-feast =- Thoth—m-heb. see "Catalogue." . . .. p. 203 note.
a. Ibidem. p. 207.

554

