NOVEMBER I888 TO JULY I889]

body has dared to go near it since. The buried man was not of the
time of the Pharaohs; he lived only about a hundred ﬁfty years ago.

While climbing up to the Sheikh Gaber quarry the postal boat
passed and a man hailed me. Quicker than I with my glass, a sailor
saw who it was; the Howaga of the mill at Ekhmeem. He was arriv-
ing just in time to greet us.

BENOWEET Following what Murray says about a temple
December 4, 1888 Nefady and I donkeyed in an hour and a half
west to Benoweetl. I found an old mound a

thousand feet across and ﬁfty high. The brick walls in it seemed to
occupy more than one third of the surface. There were thirty or forty
men digging for Sebakh, but they had no anteekeh to sell. An old
man showed me the spot where he said there was a temple ﬁfty or
sixty years ago, but then the Government broke it and carried it
away. I saw a big piece of wrought granite, a yard across, and the
shoulder of a granite statue two yards broad. They took me to a
digging where were capitals of columns, I judge of Roman time. At
the gate of Jussuf Ishag’s house is a block of limestone three feet by
two with part of a bas-relief, from the knees down. Before the mum-
miﬁed legs of a God, which may well be Min, the God of this Ninth
Nome, two little fellows offer cloth, the special product of Ekhmeem
for at least ﬁve thousand years, and behind them are the spread
shanks of the King. I can make out but one word of his offering
speech and that is “The Temple of the Father.” It may be the
name of the temple which Champollion might have seen. Of these
Sybilline Leaves there is left but the last fragment of the last book.

We came on at night to Soohag.

SOOHAG A letter which I had heard of and which I got
December 5, 1888 last night was not from home, as I hoped, but
from Mr. Albright saying he had by letter ac—

cepted Hassan Speke’s terms which I wrote him from Cairo, and
that Hassan had telegraphed response. From Cairo to Paris and back
and from Cairo to Paris and back to Soohag is not bad for twenty-ﬁve
days. I am glad for Hassan, who is to meet at Alexandria Mr.
Albright and his family, coming by the same steamer that you are.

 

r. Ibidem. Banahou of the modern map of Baedeker. "Egypt.” 1929. above Tahta.

487

