[CHAPTERSEVEN

whom Mustafa Aga belonged. The crew, aside from Oorooshwan and
Nefady of last year, are mainly of two families.

The Rais Mohammed needs punching occasionally, but punching
seems to do him good. He is, I guess from what I see, an able sailor
and we get along. He lives at I bsheer a little village a few miles south
of Philae, and not one south of Qellet Toud, where Insinger’s Rais
Ahmed, his cousin, lives.

Ibsheer gives us our Rais and his sister’s son Morgaany and his
two cousins Mohammed Showooly and Esan. At Soohag the Rais
has a second wife whose young brother, returning from Cairo, works
his way by helping Moorgaan. Qellet Toud gives us Aly, a brother of
Rayce Ahmed, on the father’s side only. Elephantine gives us the
pilot Abdoo, a man who seems to me best of all the new men, large,
ﬁne-looking and with a very gentle musical voice. He says that I
have bought ostraca of his wife. He has on board Esan, who married
his sister, and three cousins, Mohammed Aagayly, Besheer and
Hussayn.

Assuan gives us two odd ones Aboo Zaaeed, the singer, and
Aboo Bekr, who has mashed the end of his ﬁnger between the felucca
and the dahabeeyeh and though it is getting well, seems quite pluck-
less about it.

Then there is a big boy, Aly, who is the crew’s cook, and is sure to
be somebody’s relative. ‘

OFF ESHMENT It took us most of the day yesterday to ﬁnish
Saturday the page of the day before, and today we have
Deceméer 17, 1887 started on that in which is Beni-Sooef and let-
ters and a chance to send to Alexandria to meet
the wanderers now half way across the Salt River, as the Arabs call
the Mediterranean. The Rais was rather lazy yesterday, so I made
him track at evening and to—day he was stirring betimes, ﬁrst track-
ing, then straightening up the mast which inclined towards Mecca,
then warping by the anchor and now sailing in the sunny afternoon,
I judge he does not want to track this evening. The Cook boat is out of
sight ahead while we were lazying yesterday. Aboo Shanab is out of
sight behind, but will come up while we are smithing the rudder in
Beni-Sooef.

444

