NOVEMBER 1886 TO APRIL I887]

yellow ﬂowers; perhaps it is the same turtle dove calling, the same
sparrows peering in at my window. But there are changes. Mr. Gross,
the painter- manager has gone, and big Luigi will take his place. Gas
in the dining room is discarded and petroleum lamps mount yard-
high above the table. They give far less heat and, strange to say, no
odor. John Cook is here recommending his new steamers, one of
which he takes up the river the thirtieth. Dr. Grant, whose wife’s
death I saw last summer in Compton, comes in after dinner and we
talk till eleven thirty. Sir John Gorst’s handsome blonde daughter,
writing in the reading-room the while, asks Cook next day to intro-
duce me and wickedly says she was writing to listen.

But Insinger is a true friend. He was at Shepheard’s when I should
have arrived and left a rendezvous for next morning at his dahabee-
yeh. We spent the day with his old Reis visiting what he had found
for sale, which he thought would suit us, and so on Friday and Sat-
urday and Sunday, we have almost concluded upon one, but we still
search. The old Reis Mohammed of the Museum Steamer, is anxious
I should not pay so much, but his ideas of comfort are hardly up to
Lottie’s standard. I ﬁnd our old cook out of a place and shall take him
if I cannot get a better cook who speaks some European tongue as
well as Mohammed does French. He has been here to-day and
through him the two side-saddles I bought are in a saddler’s hands to
be stuffed and girded for donkeys. M. Maspero will be somewhat sur-
prised when he ﬁnds that Grébaut, his successor, who owes every-
thing to him, has discharged Mohammed, who dates from Mariette.
The boat business has prevented me from going in yet to see the
Pharaonic Mummies, now stripped and ghastly. Their photographs
Insinger has shown me, and some of them show much character.
They are the great attraction. I went in a moment to see the Gré-
bauts. The mother seemed to regret that M. Bouriant, who is to be
Director of the French School, would have almost as much as her son
will as Director of the Museum. The son was full of the improve-
ments he had made; he had put two pieces of stone together and
found they ﬁtted and by moving some large objects out of doors had
made room for acquisitions. He seemed apoplectic and complained
of his head. Two summers in Egypt have been too much for his two
hundred and twenty-two pounds.

409

