[CHAPTER TEN

of seven hundred pounds for the Admiral which he liked last Spring.
He and I called on Golenischeff, down from his trip with the Czare-
vitch, and glad it is over. He had been in to thank me for the Famine
Stele photographs and to urge that I publish my copies and correc-
tions. His boat I visited Saturday. It is furnished simply and ele-
gantly, with ﬁner interior painting than any other, no mus/mraéee-
ye/z work except one small book-case, carpets all rugs, curtains and
bed coverings in delicate tinted silk. He tells me he will hardly occupy
it oftener than every other year. He means to go to El Khargeh and
Dakleh from Soohag. Professor Sayce was very much interested in
some cuneiform tabletsl Golenischeff has and is printing. Mrs. Bar-
ton, an American who came with the widow Shreve when she landed
in Mason Bey, and who sat facing me at table between Vice Consul
General Grant and another young man equally devoted to her, fell
from her donkey two days ago and mashed forehead, eyes, nose and
lips badly. They put on white lead but yesterday yielded to my pre-
scription of vaseline, the effect of which has brought to Dr. Wilbour
Mrs. Mason’s congratulations. Professor Lansing is worse. Sayce
heard the Dean yesterday; the subject of the sermon was: thousand
pounds for stained glassand mosaics for the Church. The Barclays
are on board. Dr. Worthington is coming with Mr. Birkbeck with
whom I breakfasted at Karnak some years ago, the Doctor then with
him. Daressy tells me he starts tomorrow to begin work at Luxor.
Grébaut follows with the Khedive by and by. Mosquitoes make it
lively while I write. I wish I were on the river.

CAIRO Last Tuesday I went to the Post Ofﬁce and
Sunday found letters from Paris and the snow storm
December 14, 1890 there; glad enough to get them and news that
Lottie was well. A. S. Hill, Professor at Harvard

is here, just as self-sufﬁcient as when on the Tribune with me, going
up in the Postal in January. My painting, all done but the decks, has
been waiting several days for the threat of rain to pass away. The
awnings are nearly ﬁnished and I have now one complete set for
winter and one for summer. Friday came Dr. Worthington with Mr.

 

1. Tablets discovered at Kara Eyuk near Kaiaariya in Cappadocia see A. H. Sayce. “Reminiscence."
London, 1923. p. 266.

574

 

