DECEMBER 1882 TO APRIL 1883]

Bedaween. But I think that Gemeeleh and Empheeseh and a new
little Hassan need him much more than I. .

yanuary 4, 1883 Yesterday I had a long walk in the twenty-acre

garden of Zeynab Hanem, the great aunt of the
Khedive, who is in Constantinople. It is full of trees, date-palm and
orange and lemon and others ornamental, and Aly, the head gardener
told me the names of tree and ﬂower and how they grafted and
budded—just as we do.

This morning at nine I was awakened by cannon and supposed
Fred. Charles‘ and Brugsch had come. But no, it was the Holy Carpet
from Mecca.2 So I coffeed, mounted a donkey for the ﬁrst time since I
have been here and galloped to the citadel. With a white donkey and
a white beard you may go anywhere in a Moslem crowd so I was
soon within ten yards of where the Khédive alighted and the Mah—
mal was reviewed. The crowd was wonderfully picturesque and of all
the colors that have yet been invented, in face as well as in costume.
In places of vantage were close carriages from which veiled faces
looked, some with beautiful eyes. The tall bearded blacks who guard
such veils tried to keep a clear space between them and the show with
remittent success. The Khédive, who looks like Mr. Dennis whom we
used to see at Bien Faisance, though he is not so tall, came after the
troops, English and Egyptian, had been placed, and then amid more
booming of cannon came the peaked-top, camel—borne tabernacle
which holds the carpet, gorgeous with embroidered trappings. The
next camel bore a fat sheikh, a descendent of Mohammed; the next a
fatter one naked to the waist who wagged his head with a persis-
tance which only true religion could maintain; the third carried the
white—bearded Father of the Cats, who held a little boy who held the
black and white cat. The cat did not seem very anxious to get away.
I suppose Lane tells all about this; what I admired was the color,
which was a feast to the eyes.

This afternoon Brugsch and his Prince came without cannon; I
went to the Museum and got your letter and while I have been writ-
ing M. Brédif has been in. According to Cairene etiquette I should

1. Fred. Charles. grandson of King Frederick William III of Prussia. (1828—1885.) For his trip in Egypt
see Heinrich Brugsch. “Mein Leben und mein \Vandern.” Berlin, 1894. pp. 361—374.

2. The Holy Carpet from Mecca—see E. W. Lane. ”Manners and Customs of the Modern Egyptians."
London. 1893. pp. 444 and seq.

185

