NOVEMBER I885 TO MAY 1886]

Monday I went over the river and took Hassan’s donkey.
7anuary 25, 1886 On the way we met a bright girl who did not seem
specially to recognize him, Hassan. But he told
me she was Aasarani, his cousin, the daughter of Ignahwee, and that
he wanted to marry her and she wanted to marry him and her mother
wanted it, but Ignahwee wanted ten Napoleons and he had only ﬁve.
80 you see the course of true love even here runs rough. We went to
Aboo Gamb’s house and after looking about variously for papyrus
with small success, I got an old fan in which the ends of the feathers
are still to be seen and a doll with a wig and I saw a lot of hair curled
on sticks which Maspero has not seen. And then we went to Drah
Aboo’l Negga and I worked a while on my Tombs of Thebes. One
was nearly ﬁlled with scenes of feasting and singing and wine-
drinking. In another the Monk Paham had left his Coptic scrawl.
One was utterly destroyed except in one corner the name of the
proprietor, a certain Horus. One was of the Counter of the Cattle of
the Godwife and in one scene there were seven breeds of cattle, which
he was counting.‘ I came back after sunset to ﬁnd that Toda had ar-
rived in the Postal Boat ...... It is sad to hear of your cold in
Paris while here in Luxor we have the unvarying sunshine and beau-
tiful sunsets and hang up our overcoats once for all. It is your luck to
get the cold winters, in America and in Europe. . . . .

Tuesday It is market day and Old Kaleefeh brings me
:7anuary 26, 1886 what I bought Saturday and Aboo Gamb what I
bought Monday and Old Kamoorry comes in to

see me and I ﬁnd his new spectacles suit him. . . . . We will try to
get up a cubit better than any in the museums. Barios came down
from Assuan, with his bright little wife and strange to say had not
heard anything about the wonderful tombs discovered in Assuan.

I found Insinger recovered . . . . . and printing photographs
of which he makes many. Toda takes pictures in the market and
looks over the Museum coins; he made a collection of forty thousand
Chinese coins. He tells me there are between four and ﬁve hundred
coins of Constantine. What an endless labor, as good as a crazy quilt.

 

I. Tomb of Hety, no. 15!. Porter-Moss. “Tapographicml Bibliography," VOL 1. Oxford, 193% Do 145.

355

