OCTOBER 1881 TO APRIL 1882]

much. It looks out over the square in front of the Opera House, upon
the Esbekieh garden and northwards to the New Hotel. Soon Madame
came in, in the plainest kind of a deep mourning dress. She seemed
really glad to see us; she sees but four or ﬁve men besides her rela-
tives. She was very quiet and subdued. The Judge entertained her
while I talked with Wacyf. He told me that in the election for the
Egyptian Parliament which was Tuesday (I did not know it) about
two hundred pe0ple voted in Cairo and they are said to have universal
suffrage. He invited us to dinner next day and we went. There were the
Judge and Mme. Hagens and Bogos Bey, husband of Mme. Wacyf’s
sister. He was in Paris last summer, has protruding eyes, can see in
the dark and is rather intelligent, but quite inferior to VVacyf. There *
was a nice but not pretentious dinner—Ha few good courses and in the
champagne VVacyf remembered you. Madame Wacyf, beside whom
I sat, was quite talkative and seemed to have a good time. They had
a portrait of a very pretty widow, Nazli Hamem, a princess. Mme.
Wacyf hoped to see you here next winter and I found his card to-day.
Friday is Spitta’s holiday; the Library is closed and by arrangement
from the week before we took a donkey ride together—two Hagens,
he and 1, around Gebel Ahmar and back through the Tombs of the
Khalifs. Yesterday I went out to the Pyramids with Montbard and
two missionary Americans who propose to regenerate Africa by
means of American F reedmen and English money. They made my
Bedaween friends happy by paying them about ﬁfty dollars for
bronze Egyptian idols and heathen scarabees. I got a porcelain lotus
the shape of a goblet with the handle broken off and the edge on one
side. Its shape is very pretty.

Elsen is going to start on Tuesday by way of Suez to Souakim on
the Red Sea; then across to Khartoom and so on. The missionaries
dare not go that way for fear of cholera and quarantine said to be
ﬁfteen days. They are still waiting for baggage to come from London
and propose to follow the course of the Nile straight up ......
Spitta has word from the Wiedemann’s that they sail on the eight-
eenth from Trieste. Won’t she worry! Here nobody seems to think of
cholera, though I did dream last night of a parrot who was calling out
the word most disagreeably and persistently.

79

