NOVEMBER I889 TO MARCH I890]

February 23, 1890 We sailed an hour to Erment ...... At

noon we were at Luxor, where we found letters
from Compton and Paris and elsewhere. We have been unlucky in
missing friends whom we hoped to see; Mrs. Martin who came up on
a special American Cook steamer left this morning. The Hartford
Days and Mrs. Bates and her daughter we have seen only from afar.
Sayce had a letter in red ink from Grébaut who said he was protest-
ing against the diversion of the Tourists’ guineas from the object for
which they were given, but did not speak of coming up the river.
Aly Moorad fell and hurt his shoulder the night of the rain; he is not
used to it.

February 24, 1890 Saw Mr. Ellis who is just getting out. Ned went

to Medeenet Haboo with the girls and sketched
them at tea in the temple. By the postal boat came Revillout in
answer to my letter. The sailors promptly gave him the name Aboo
Shoosha, the Father of the Lock from his long curls. He raved over
my torso of Aten Makt and said the Louvre would pay any price for
it. I took him to Abd-el Megeed and he pronounced the papyri con-
tracts, one for the sale of Liturgies, of the time of Ptolemy Epiphanes;
as worth to the Louvre not more than two hundred pounds. As
Abd-el-Megeed insisted that he would not sell them for less than
three thousand pounds, we thought the gulf impassable, and went
to Mohammed Mohassib’s where he selected sixty pounds’ worth
greatly to his (and to Mohammed’s) satisfaction

February 25, 1890 I took Revillout to see Murch’s collection and

Khaled’s shop and Todros’ shop where he paid
forty-two francs for twelve ostraca, such as we buy for half a piastre
at most. Revillout told me Grébaut had not come up because they
were trying to put in an Englishman along side of him. The Maud-
slays came in. The Murches, a pretty baby among them, came to tea
and Sayce, who said General Grenfell told him Grébaut’s equal asso-
ciate had been appointedl. Murch said Scott-Moncrieff had written
in answer to his information about the spoliation of the tombs, that if
there were nobody to buy the fragments, they would not be cut out
to which he had replied that the Museum and not he had bought

I. A. H. Sayoe. “Reminiscences.” London. 1923. p. 259.

SS7

 

