OCTOBER 1881 TO APRIL 1882]

Dickens, of whom M. Maspero has a Peterson’s edition, bought by
him in South America, and she speaks English without great difﬁ-
culty. Her daughter is perhaps twelve or thirteen, looks like her
father, wants to take the longest possible donkey-rides and is gener-
ally enthusiastic. Mme. d’Estournelles,l as she is called, seems a very
sensible sort of person, quite plain and old-fashioned, and still with a
good head and good eyes; she has a habit of leaving her snuff-box
everywhere. M. Maspero plays a rubber of rubbers of Ecarté with
her after dinner. Bouriant is making in Egyptology a special study of
the Unitarian King Amenophis IV,2 or as he called himself by his re-
formed name Khoo-en-aten, and has copied some Coptic from the
lVISS of the Coptic patriarch in Cairo which he is printing in Mas-
pero’s Kauai/.3 He has worked on Arabic considerably, the literary,
rather than the spoken. He can read better than I; but I can speak
better. Altogether a studious set. It is not ten o’clock yet. Mme.
d’Estournelles has said good night and of the seven left around the
table, ﬁve are reading. The writer will go to bed too, for the sailors
begin early to make a noise; we start at dawn and we get up steam an
hour before, and they have been quiet for more than two hours. The
true way to get along here is to do as they do; but how can you with a
seven o’clock dinner?

MINIEH Yesterday after an hour we stopped at Feshn
Tuerday morning but as Daninos was not there we went on imme-
Deceméer 20, 1881 diately. The day was a Dutch day as to sky,
continually overcast. We passed the wicked

Nineteenth Nome where is no relic of Osiris, and Anubis’ Eighteenth
Nome and the Seventeenth which the Greeks called Dog-town from
the Jackal worship and mummies thereabout, and Gebel-et-tayr,‘l the
Bird Mountain, where the fowl of the air congregate for their annual

chatter. I had heard that the Coptic Patriarch at Cairo had forbidden

1 . M me. d'Estournelles. the mother of Mme. Maspero.

2. The work was never ﬁnished. The ﬁrst volume was published under the title: U. Bouriant. G. Legrain
and G. Jéquier. “Monuments pour servir a l’étude du culte d'Atonou en Egypte." Cairo. 1903.

3. Coptic Manuscripts. See U. Bouriant, “Les Proverbes de Salomon." Version copte publiée d'aprés deux
manuscrits laisant partie de la bibliothéque du patriarche copte Jacobite du Caire." in "Recueil de
travaux relatifs a le philologie et a l'archéologie égyptiennea et assyriennes,” vol. III, 1881. pp. 129—147.

4. Gebel e1 tayr. Sec Murray. “Egypt." 1880. p. 403; "Description de l'Egypte." and edit. Paris. 1821.
vol. IV. pp. 378—379.

93

l”

U‘ l _.' M‘r ‘ 7. llli l “

“.‘ i l l

