DECEMBER 1882 TO APRIL 1883]

about which were ranged the tents, gorgeous with color, of the
Mooled feast. There might have been a dozen at the ends and thirty
at the sides and three or four huge round ones in the centre. Most
were oblong with the great front ﬂap raised high on poles so that you
could see at once the elaborate ornamentation of the front, the roof,
the rear and the sides. Inside some were scores, in others hundreds
of devotees, ranged just as you have seen them in the praying tents
at camp-meetings. The regularity of the movements of those under
the power ﬁnds its counterpart among the Shakers, but the tones,
the fervor, the ejaculations are those of any camp—meeting, white or
black. At one end were tents with parlor furniture where the grandees
received their friends. A huge crowd circulated about the square,
seeking which tent might best reward their pious curiosity. The only
thing which is unknown to us, was the carriages with veiled Turkish
and Circassian women and their black attendants. These last were so
much absorbed in the exercises, which they drove about to see, stop-
ping for half an hour sometimes before the most interesting, that
there was no difﬁculty in examining their charges rather minutely.
The quadruple content of one carriage Piehl thought very ﬁne and
the crown on the harness suggested an idea to me. I mentioned it to
a young black that the chestnuts were very handsome; he seemed
pleased and I asked where they came from. From Moskovy, he said.
And who did they belong to? “To Ibrahim Pacha; there were his
initials on the silver.” Half an hour before Ibrahim, who was in a
dray with some friends, had recognized me and wished me bon voy-
age. The Khédive’s wife was there but I did not see him, though he
is usually there. But the great days are Saturday and Sunday.

To-day we passed the bridge at two. Before noon I had my hair
cut again to one-half inch in length, if one may call that length. I
feel that it is shortness. We reach Bedreshayn in time to see the gor-
geous sunset behind the Palms and Pyramids. Mr. Naville passed
the morning with M. Maspero. He has come for the English society
which has raised eight hundred pounds to dig for Jews. He is an in-
tense watcher of diggings. No cat ever watched a mouse—hole more
closely than he the perforation of the little pyramid of Koolah last
Winter.

I93

