[CHAPTER TWO

ﬁrst was only against two; this I set a writing and Maspero has made
it. Then he said he would send for the Sheikh-el-Beled1 who should
have prevented this robbery and see what he could do with him; and
when he had them all assembled, he would introduce me to them
and put them under my orders.

Then I went to Mahmood’s and bought some gods, and a necklace,
the great God of Coptos in bronze costume and with an inscription.
Mahmood said it came from Coptos. I am spending a lot of time and
money on these Gods; I wonder if they will ever reward me for it.
Perhaps they won’t punish me.

Naggyar, the Syrian who built the New Hotel, is dead, and his
widow, the French woman, arrived to-day. VViedemann’s Hassan ran
to tell me the news as I came from Karnak this morning. She will
now probably lose everything as the Hotel in the face of the advanc-
ing Nile, will not sell for enough to pay what he owed on it.

I fear bad weather on the Mediterranean; the French mail of last
week seems two days late and the Brindisi one; they did not reach
the boat which arrived to-day and we have only the Cairo mail. So
instead of getting Paris letters ten days old we shall have them
thirteen.

LUXOR With two soldiers and the eight or ten men I
Tuesday went over to Karnak and on the way found
yammry 24, I882 stones of the little temple in walls which ap-
peared to have been built ten years or more ago.

I looked about the houses somewhat, ﬁnding but little. They have
broken the stones very much and there seems to be very little lately
taken. I had the walls which cut the temple ground into small lots
taken down and left Said to be the Reis. I rode over at night to see
how he was getting on and he had dug a lot of holes to see if he
could not ﬁnd something. The men remonstrated that that was not
their work. Brugsch arrived at night with the Cook steamer and
said he had been to see this temple five years ago and it was nearly
all gone then. He brought our letters which we thought delayed
by storm. It must be interesting to have a good revival in Compton;
I remember when I went forward for prayers. I am awakened every

 

I. Sheikh e1 Beled is the Mayor of the City.

120

