DECEMBER 1882 TO APRIL 1883]

LUXOR CONSULS Mr. Piehl with the ardor of a nouveau, attacked

the little temple of Hathor at Dayr el Medeenet,
and will copy it all—unless he should see a better one. After our
return we called on the consuls, Mustapha, Todros and Aly Moorad.
At Mustapha’s was Bull Run Russell who entertained Maspero with
Lord Dufferin’s project of an international guardianship of the an-
tiquities. Maspero replied that it would be an excellent thing, so
much money was needed for making the necessary repairs and re-
searches. You see the English where they had a share, as in the
Control, ﬁnd that it is impossible to work with a Frenchman; but it is
different where they have no share; there they may.

Wednesday We, Mme., Charmes and I, were quite tired this
February 7, 1883 morning, but I went over to Karnak with Mas-
pero who starts some diggings against the north
side of the east halfof the Pylon of Horus. We saw so many tumbled-
down blocks which had inscriptions on their wrong sides that we set
to copying them. I have twenty-one and he as many more. They are
from a temple of Ra built by the Unitarian King1 and torn down a
few years after his death, and the similarity which they show to other
temple—texts indicates that the only change in the religion, was the
elimination of the other gods, and this probably because the far-
sighted King wished to break the power of the High Priests of Am—
mon. This power was indeed strong enough to unseat his son-in-law
and in after centuries more than once changed the number of the
dynasty.

In the afternoon I saw some antiquities and read the papers in the
hotel. Mme. Pagnon is there as kindly as ever. Mme. Auber, a water—
drinker, is suffering from the bad water which came to Port Said
through Tell el Kebeer about the time of and after the battle.

TOMBs or THE KINGS I went over to the Tombs of the Kings with
Thursday Bouriant and Loret who go to help the di-
February 8, 1883 rector of their school, M. Lefébure, who has
undertaken to copy the whole of the Tomb

of Seti I, the ﬁnest tomb which man has yet made. It is likely that the

I. See Porter-Moss. "Topographical Bibliography." vol. 11. London, 1929, p. 63; M. Pillet. “Quclques Bas-
reliefs inédits d'Amenhotep lV—Akhenaton a Karnak," in “Revue de l'Egypte ancienne." Paris. vol.
II. 1929. pp. 136—143. with pl. III—X.

20

\D

