[CHAPTEREIGHT

my closet on the pile of pictures of ﬁve, somewhere among the white
ones. You might also bring a couple of Rochester shades; we have
only one spare one; Aly says he shall not break any, but I may. I
shall stop somewhere to mail this, because if you leave Marseilles the
second of December, this is the last you are sure to receive. Of course
you will ﬁnd letters at Alexandria, with a list of things you may get
to bring. Mrs. Newman told me Judge Kinsman was on their steamer
and what a storm they had. He will ﬁnish Mr. Brimmer’s picture and
come up in a week or two. He has sold every scrap of his last year’s
work and I rather think the best way to sell Egyptian pictures is to
complete them in Egypt. I am glad that Victor is settled in his
mind at last. I hope he will soon be able to come to Egypt with us
and we will ship a crew of models. Mr. Cook spoke to me about hav-
ing Mr. Newman paint a Philae picture for him. Cook’s tourist boats
have had the under deck utilized, and are now three stories deep; the
Ramses has seventy-two berths and the others ﬁfty-three. Can you
get for the Reis a white shawl to wear around his head and shoulders
about one and one-quarter to one and one—half metres square? Of
course he would think more of it if it were from Paris. It is the dis-
tinctive costume of Captains on the River. We have passed Eshmentl
and shall have to stop at Beni Sooef to drop this. The wind is less and
there is no more talk of furling. Seelim looks, only, for the most part,
and has from two to ﬁve men on the rudder, now of iron and very

solid.

. Since I landed it has been cool or cold. Grébaut was
hugging his coat and shivering. His mother looks well, but the sister
shows the Egyptian summer, which, Mr. Cardwell tells me, was very
hot. Aly says folk say it is to be a cold winter. It is almost noon and
here in the big room it is only sixty-eight degrees, it was down to
ﬁfty-ﬁve degrees in the night. The water seems to me just as good as
usual. In any river water there are animalcula, but they do not get
through the Zeer, which is a ﬁlter of the Pasteur System, only thou-
sands of years old.

It took me eleven days last year to reach Beni Sooef: from Decem-
ber sixth to seventeenth.

 

z. Ishmant in Baedeker, ”Egypt." 1929. p. 218.

476

