[CHAPTER FIVE

feebly. An old woman rushes to the rescue with Italian and ﬁnally I
buy a ring-crocheted, salmon, worsted shawl at a price which sinks
from ten drachmas to ﬁve. The drachma is a franc. Thoughtlessly I
pay in silver, when I should have paid in paper worth four silver
francs. The women about wonder what I will do with it. An hour
afterwards and far away, one sees it on my arm and says: “I saw you
buy.” Simple, kindly folk. In large part the men are away on the
frontier facing the Turks. There are very many rooms and apart-
ments to let. In the afternoon I go to the Polytechnikon and am
looking about the Egyptian Museum, a considerable and very inter-
esting collection made by an Alexandrian Greekl of late years, when
Philo appears. He had a rough passage last week and is enjoying his
visit amazingly. His fellow-traveller, Hopkins is reading his novels
complacently, as at Luxor. Which reminds me that I saw an Athen-
ian boy on the steamer with Emerson’s “Essays.” I had some pleas-
ant promenading with his sister, aged four or ﬁve.

Sunday I start off towards the Acropolis in the morning, by
April II, 1886 the old Cathedral, a pocket church, like all the
Byzantine churches here, so low and so little.
Twenty or thirty people would crowd it. Candles lie in a pile—of
several sizes. A man in Greek costume, legginged, comes in, lights one
and sets it up. He does not put a copper on the little pile and goes
away. Three little children come in. In two pictures Mary and Jesus
standing have each three cherubs for foot-warmers. These the chil-
dren kiss, lifting up the smallest; eighteen kisses and the nine faces so
much alike. Outside I look over the old stones, inscribed and sculp-
tured, stones of the cities of Thessus and of Hadrian and of the evil
Christian days, with which this doll’s play church was patched to-
gether. Of all the inscriptions I remember only this, which is apart
and complete: “Myrrinousious’ daughter.” She would be known only
as her father’s child. Further southward and in the Way of Hadrian,
No. 78 I saw antiquities which lasted me till noon; John Palaeologos
‘will sell you some next year.

Afternoon I went to the Cave of the Nymphs where I was told I
should see the lowest of the populace. Just east of the Ammon tem-

 

I. M. Demétrio. See D. Mallet. “Quelques Monuments égyptiens du Musée d'Athéncs" in “Recueil dc
travaux." vol. XVIII. 1806. pp. 1-15.

390

