[CHAPTER TWO

wife and daughter who were hidden in the women’s rooms when we
took our noon meal in his house, had come down and were in the
doorway with him. They didn’t think it worth their while to run
away from one old gray-beard and it was a pleasant sight to see. He
came out where I was, was led to shake hands with me and I wished
him a good night and a good year. Fil/y’s sa'is, as we started on, said
his say about the daughter; she was a hint quieera, a pretty girl. She
was the wife of the poor fellow who is in chains at Soohag; I heard
nothing more about him this day. But the groping old man, the
weary wife and the bright-eyed girl make a picture which will follow
me till I see them again, though the house was as “dirty as a Copt,”
in the energetic language of the Moslem.

Thursday I awoke at Girgeh and we went to the House of
March 23, I882 Abd—el-Noor, already known to you. The master
was away, but his brother, who speaks French and
is going to be French Consul in Luxor next year, received us and
gave us donkeys to El Berbeh1 an hour W. N. W ., the village from
which came the stone of Nofer-Ka—ra Pepi of the Sixth Dynasty,
which I found here on our way up. There must have been a temple
here, a “beerbeh” from which the little town took its name, but its
place is no more to be seen; we did see stray stones and one shoulder
to hip fragment of a large statue of the hippopotamus goddess Apet,
the mother of Osiris at Thebes. Then we retraced our steps and after
breakfast should have crossed the river to some tomb in sight, but
there was a strong north wind which agitated the river so much that
M. Maspero thought the sailors would be afraid to take us across in
the felucca. So we rested and Said found some antiquities.

Friday We were waked at six and three of us actually set
March 24, 1882 out before half past seven. Crossing the river we
went east for an hour to the palmy village of Mes-

heykh‘~’ and to the gorge behind, beside which are a score of tombs. One
of them has two large rooms ﬁnely sculptured. The twelve statues

I. G. Maspero. "Notes sur quelques points dc grammaire et d'histoire” XXIV in "Zeitschrift fiir agyptische
Sprache und Altertumskunde". Vol. XX. 1882. p. 124. El Berbeh is the arabic name for a mined Temple.

2. Baedeker. “Egypt," 1929. p. 231: Nag' e1 Mashﬁyikh. See A. H. Savce. “Gleanings from the Land of
Egypt, 5 I Inscriptions in the neighbourhood of Girgeh" in “Recueilde travaux relatifs 51a philologie et
21 I'archéologie égyptiennes et assyriennes," vol. XIII. 1890. pp. 62—65.

154

