DECEMBER 1880 TO APRIL 1881]

one built, so that it will be some time before they are installed at
Cairo. So they expect to make a long steamerjourney ﬁrst thing next
winter, for which, I am told, two places are reserved for us. The
School will be along and the time will allow careful inspection. This
morning we all went over to Karnak and M. Maspero met his old
friends.

“THE NEW WHITE HOUSE” Khaled, who some days ago showed
April 4, 1881 me a nice mummy cover, told me last
night that he and his family were very
afraid; they could not eat, his mother and his children, they were so
afraid of the Mudir (M. Maspero). I told him they could all eat in
peace. The Mudir and Mrs. Mudir came to the Hotel and looked at
my few things and sat in the cool of the garden and lemonaded and
carried back some roses. Mme. Mudir has had a hard winter with
strange servants in a strange language, ﬁrst furnishing the School and
then the Steamer; she was quite worn out when they left Cairo and is
yet, I fear, ill able to endure the heats which are likely to come before
she sees France the middle of June.

I came over with Amneh’s father, Said Yussuf, who told much
about his house in the Gezeereh1 and his ten feddans and two gamoos
and three donkeys and ten goats and his wife and her four children,
two girls and two boys, and his new wife ten years old. I congratu-
lated him on his riches. He answered: “Praise be to Allah; the Lord is
merciful, I am satisﬁed.” Would he have a third wife? When he had
money enough. He knew that in my country men had but one wife,
was interested to know about my children.

Ibrahim Mohassib told me last night in a ﬁt of conﬁdence, that
Mohammed Abd-er-Rasool, whose house is next his, found some
years ago a tomb in which were £40,000 worth of antiquities; he him—
self saw “with these eyes” thirty-six papyri from it.

LUXOR While I pencilled yesterday a little fellow went for
A'pri/ 5, 1881 Abd-er-Rasool; he soon came up from his lentils and
we went to a tomb2 Dr. Birch wrote me about, which

was “in Thebes” which I had described to this Servant of the Prophet

i. Gezeereh: Arabic for island. '
2. This is the famous tomb of Ramose. no. 55 Porter-Moss. "Topographical Bibliography. V01. 1. pp.
86-87.

 

65

