OCTOBER 1881 T0 APRIL 1882]

is quite worn out, so that I really have not so much to bring back as I
carried. For I bring very little of antiquities; we have no room for
them in Paris.

In the evening I found at the Judge’s the bone—coverers which
Mme. Hagens had been kind enough to buy for me, four judges,
Italian Bernardi, Dutch Stoppelaar, Irish Law and the tall Belgianl;
Mme. Stoppelaar also, Mr. 81 Mrs. Bosch and Mr. 81 Mrs. Holtz.
The last, Mme. Hagens told me was the women she liked best of all
in Cairo. She knows much and rather affects that ignorance which
she appears to think men do most admire in women. The ancient
Stoppelaars had the places of honor but I was next Mme. Hagens on
the other side and the Dutch judge had occasion to occupy himself
mainly with his Italian confrére and the gentleman beyond. Mr.
Holtz has been in Egypt twenty-eight years and Mme. nearly as
long. They have no children. He seemed a very pleasant man. Mme.
Bosch, three months married, is very bright with a nasal tone, a nice
little person with beautiful lips and teeth, which she was kind enough
to let us see most of the time. Her husband, similar person, but not

handsome. The Belgian, tall and perhaps thirty, sings much with a ‘

generous, but not highly cultivated voice. His Arab servant once de-
scribed him to Mme. Hagens as “The gentleman who cried so much
last Sunday.” So Mme. Holtz told me. Mme. Stoppelaar is a roly-
poly, who I think isn’t much of a favorite. The Irish judge seemed
rather plain and substantial, with a broad Scotch—Irish face and little
Bernardi rather frisky for his gray hairs. We had the best dinner I
have eaten in Egypt, and the best served. And afterwards in the
parlor, talk and coffee and talk and then Mme. Hagens played,
making her grand piano tell the hurry and enthusiasm of her enter-
taining self, and then she accompanied the tall (and not yet bulky)
Belgian while his elephantine voice sported over the fragile notes of
little Figaro in the Barber, and then more talk and chocolate and
then one went out and came in to guess characters and qualities and
such. For this they used French. Come to think, there is hardly any—
thing which is so good a test of general knowledge and quickness of
thought, and all these people stood the test well; I think I never saw
a set which stood it better. If any lack was noteworthy, it was the

 

1. Pietro Bernardi. Johannes Hermanus de Stoﬁelaar. Michael Law and the tall Belgian Emile Vercamer.
See “Les Juridictions Mixtes d'Egypte." 1876-1926. “Livre d'or." Alexandria. 1926.

171

