OCTOBER 1881 TO APRIL 1882]

At dinner here at Shepheards, Mr. Farman came in with Mrs.
Moulton. She does not look as well as when in Luxor, and is worried
now about the hotel porter who insisted on unsealing and repacking
her present for the Luxor Consulate, before he mailed it, and whom
she suspects. She really wears so many ﬁne things that people think
there is money to be made out of her; she wants that appreciation,
but worries over the natural results.

I forgot to tell you that yesterday I invited the Pattersons with
whom I had dined the day before, to call on us in the Pyramid.
About two o’clock the enclosed note arrived instead. It was lucky
for the frail little body that the Khamseen gave her a headache in
the morning. The Nubian who bought the note was terribly fright-
ened coming in; he had never been in such a hole in the rock before
and looked as if he had seen a score of Afreets.

Saturday In the morning I helped Farman look over some
April 8, 1882 anteekeh and then got some things of Tanol and Mo-
hammed Effendi and I had to call on the Crédit

Lyonnais, where I congratulated myself that it was only the receipt
for my letter of credit I had lost and not the letter itself. In the after-
noon I helped Mrs. Moulton shop, mostly in the Persian bazaar (she
is getting together a lot of turquoises) and I telegraphed for her to
Aly Moorad ...... Elsen has been gone a month ......

Sunday Aly telegraphs he has received no watch. So in a
dprz’l 9, I882 scorching Khamseen I went with Mrs. Moulton to
make a reclamation at the Post Oﬂice, and then to

leave the matter with the Consulate, giving to Mr. Ibrahim Mussa-
wir (Wolf and Van Dyck both being in America) power to sue
etcetera. She should not have sent ﬁfty dollars’ worth; it spoils
everybody to give them so much. In the afternoon I found Judge
Hagens with neuralgia in the face, but he brightened up and seemed
to get over it. Mme. Hagens was dressed up; that is she wore a very
plain dress without ornament, which gave the effect of much dress.
She undertook to get the silver for Dora and said Spitta had not

 

1. Nicolas Tano—one of the most important dealers in antiquities. of Cairo.

167

