NOVEMBER 1886 TO APRIL 1887]

the river. Insinger has taken complete charge of the little things I
want done in her and I have only to look after the furnishing of the
house. That is all old, but much will do. We have in the house part a
space 16% by 54 feet, just nine hundred square feet, and on the
deck about seven hundred feet more covered in by canvas. Below
I have to stretch a little to reach the ceiling, so there is no danger of
Dora bumping her high hat.

I think we shall be comfortable and only wish you had an En-
chanted Carpet to transport you suddenly to this Land of the Sun.

I am doing all that requires time, ﬁnding out where everything
else is to be had and shall try to wait before taking it till Lottie comes
to see it.

The ﬁrst of Cook’s new Steamers starts tomorrow for Assuan. It is
really ﬁne and looks comfortable. I asked Mrs. Goadison, Ruskin’s
next door neighbor near Lake Windemere, why she did not go in it or
on one of Cook’s dahabeeyehs. She said “I could never face Mr.
Ruskin again if I were to go in a Cook boat.”

CAIRO I have been busy all the week with the work on
Monday the boat, though my good friend Insinger has
Deceméer 5, 1886 been busier. We have made a clothes room of the
closet and put the closet in the bathroom, with

new apparatus, as I showed in last week’s plan. We have put petro-
leum on the timbers to kill the worms and the odor is all gone. We
have lined all the places where the rats can come in, with the tin of
petroleum cans, which is very cheap here. We have arranged shelves
many and made drawers and have places for two dozen knobs and
rings and a gross of hooks. In each sleeping room we have a swinging
spring Candlestick with a little glass globe over it. The beds have
spring mattresses underneath. And a great enclosure two feet by
three, put up to hide the rudder post and rear mast, which almost cut
our rear balcony in two, has been suppressed by a clever invention of
Insinger’s, leaving only the two sticks ten and twelve inches in diam-
eter. Two carpenters are at work and will have ﬁnished in a day or
two. Then their work will be painted and Mr. Marucco will put in

411

