[CHAPTER FIVE

tomb, which alone has hieroglyphics; of Imhotep, Anubis and (per-
haps) Shoo, facing the Roman and of Imhotep Horus Isis’ son, and
Hapu, the Nile God, facing a serpent rising out of papyrus, which is
on the south side of the door. Near this is the tomb with inscription
outside north of the door in which FPAMMATA is cut with three in-
stead of two M s. The same inscription was afterwards sculptured
rightly on the other side of the door by a man who made his
while the 3 M sculptor made his thus:
The assembled con re ation, for I
A had by this time a EuiEe of a dozen A A
villagers, told me that on the facade
of a tomb, which I saw to be a large one, just north of Tehneh, there
were a lot of hieroglyphics; I had to leave that for next time. The re-
turning Khawagas were already near the boat; they had copied the
inscription, what was left of it and it says that Ignatio’s Tiberinos
under some autokmtor had done something somewhere. All the es-
sential parts of the inscription were gone and the stone was too heavy
to bring away.

As we neared Minieh in the afterglow of the sunset a haze veiled it,
arising from the broad sand stretch in front and this purple city cut-
ting the golden horizon with its lace work of minarets, made a perfect
picture, gorgeous and unreal.

Friday we stopped in the morning to see Beni Hassan again. Gré-
bautl had not seen the tombs; this is his ﬁrst voyage, and his sister
went but not his mother, who has rheumatism. One of my legs had a
twist of it after the climb at Tehneh, but I have covered it to-day
with my dressing gown and it is nigh well. It seemed to me that some
damage had been done to these tombs, that a few more dahabeeyehs
have been scratched on them within two years, but Maspero thought
not. I compared a few lines in Khnum Hotep’s2 while the others
rested. The unique determinative in Khety’s has been almost washed
out; I remember when it was quite clear without wetting. In one of the

I. Eugene Grébaut. French Egyptologist (1846-1914). director of the French Archaeological Institute in
Cairo (1883-1886), director of the Antiquities Department of Egypt (1886—1892). See G. Maspero.
”Necrology of Grébaut" in ”Revue archéologique," Paris. 1914. vol. XXIV. pp. 332—333.

2. Lepsius. “Denkmaler.” Part II. pl. I43b.

346

