[CHAPTER FOUR

EKHMEEM Saturday towards night we went to the bazar in
Monday Sioot and looked about. Said got me a piece of
Feéruary 18, 1884 Fred. Henr., Prince of Austria, two or three hun-
dred years old and so only modern, but Egypt is
the refuge of all coins. Sioot seemed to have its old look and interest,
though the supply of ebony and Ivory has been cut off by the stop-
ping of the Darfoor caravans.

Sunday we went in the morning to the tombs and the cemetery
and again we enjoyed the wonderful view up and down the narrow
river of water and the broad river of green dotted with brown village-
islands, which, one within the other, ﬂow from far to far between the
gray mountain ranges. In the cemetery we found in the forms and
decorations of the grave-mounds much of what we see in the ﬁve
thousand year old cemeteries of Gizeh and Sakkarah on a larger
scale.

Afternoon I went to the American mission which I had never
seen. Dr. Hogg, the Scotch head of it, was absent and Mrs. McKeown
received me, a short fat woman with a little red nose for whom to be
inclined to Protestantism is to become “enlightened.” It seems that
I was quite mistaken in supposing that the English authorities look
unfavorably upon them. Dr. Hogg is a British subject and has been
protected by Malet and now by Baring in his difﬁculties with the
Moslem authorities, which recur whenever a Mussulman or a Mus-
sulboy is “enlightened.” Sheref Pasha, who is a devout Moslem, sent
up a Commission to inquire about the last "abduction” of‘ minors,
three boys from Ekhmeem, but only found that the boys were not
minors, were not abducted, and that Dr. Hogg and his people did not
do it. The Governor of Sioot having been forced by Baring to open a
school of theirs which he had shut, is humiliated and sore, but afraid.
During the cholera, the missionaries as usual in the summer, were
away at Ramleh, but there was a great “awakening” among the
young Copts, the dudes of Sioot, and as many as six or eight meet-
ings a night were held. The distinction between Copt and Protestant
was lost for the time, but the Coptic patriarch sent up the Beecher of
Egypt and his sermons drew the Copts out of “enlightenment.” They
attribute the small number of deaths by cholera in the city, never
more than eight or nine a day, to this “spontaneous” awakening. She

268

