FEBRUARY 1884 TO MAY 1884.]

the level of the river to ﬁnd water. As Rooby, who went with us ex-
plained it to me: “the Nile, (and the Nile means the inundation to
him) comes up to the sand and then the Gebel takes it.” The six-year-
old sycamore was a foot and a half through and gave good shade, and
there was a pleasant breeze. We ate our eggs and chicken and drank
our Nile water and oranges and coffee in peace. Sheikh Aly, the
Keeper at Abooseer, had come over and he and Rooby and some
Arabs occupied the other sycamore. He explained to us that Nubar
wanted to leave, and, as politely as he could, thinking I was English,
talked about affairs past and present; it was easy to see that he was
suppressing his feelings. Soon after I heard an outburst from the
Arab tree and it was from Sheikh Aly; Rooby had told him I was
American. He asked me about my country and when I told him that
in the days of my grandfather we had two wars with the English, he
added: “You whipped them, too.” And he afterwards, when we were
going back to the work lifted the big sleeve of his black Bedaween
overdress to show me that the shirt underneath was of cloth Ameri-
kanee, and not the sleazy stuff the British make for their dear heathen.
We staid and watched the work awhile and then came back. On the
way back, as Maspero had not seen the ruins of the Temple of Ptah,
the most important of those existing at Memphis, we went to look at
them, a long wall containing an important geographical text and
enormous débris with cartouches running as far back as Memnon.1
Brugsch had told him Mariette, after excavating the temple, had
covered it again, and so he had passed it by scores of times without
recognizing it.

Thursday We all staid on the boat, content to rest and work
April 10, 1884 under cover.

Friday M. Bazil, Maspero’s half brother came in the morn-
April II, 1884 ing with his friend Stieglitz, an Alsatian engineer
here in a ministry. He tells me that M. Berend2

must have left four million francs ......

 

I. Porter-Moss, ”Topographical Bibliography." vol. III , Oxford. 1931. p. 218. Exterior of West. Hall.
2. William Berman Sedgwick Berend (1855—1884). former pupil of Maspero. see G. Maspero. “L'Egyp-
tologie." Paris (1915). p. 9.

309

 

