[CHAPTER ONE

We have the little excitement of the exit of a crazy Scotch woman,
Mustapha appearing at the Consul to help her off. She has for some
time past been ranging rather lawlessly taking people’s rooms and
their places at table as suited her fancy. I wonder if the dry electric
air of Egypt be not favorable to insanity in those unaccustomed to it.

LUXOR The temperature is rising, 77° in my room at ten

Tuesday o’clock. A letter from Mr. F arman supposes that

March 29, 1881 Maspero has arrived here; so I presume he will be-
fore long. -

Kitty Butterﬁeld and her mother and her English girl friend and
her Anglo—Americano—Parisian uncle and her Spanish lover and her
maid and her courier and her dragoman monopolized the ﬁrst class
accommodations coming up last steamer and do the same going down
to-day; so Miss Fagundus and the Doctor and his wife have to wait
until Friday. At the American Consul’s Fantazeeyeh last night,
Kitty seemed shocked, but I guess it was mainly because the young
Spaniard talked much German with Miss Fagundus for ten minutes.
At any rate she took him into a corner and had a little serious conver-
sation with him and after that they didn’t seem to enjoy the music
and dancing. It was rather warm although the room was on the house
top with openings on three sides. Kitty was a smart girl at Vassar,
brought her mother over to Europe two years ago and stays; her
uncle lives in Yorkshire and Nice and Paris.

Mr. Farman doesn’t propose to mix himself up with Mustapha in a
permit to dig, but advises me to. Miss F ..... says he expects to go to
America very soon. I see by the slip from the World you sent me that
Mr. Evarts spoke very handsomely of him at the setting up of the
Obelisk.l He had much inﬂuence with the old Khedive and regrets
him. And he got the obelisk, no easy thing to do.

I hope to get some things now that everybody has gone. Probably
Maspero will stay but few days here. If mosquitoes and ﬂeas are as
plenty as I hear in Cairo, I shall not stay there long. So there is a
prospect of Paris some time; and it is rather pleasant, you may guess.

I. See H. H. Gorringe. “Egyptian Obelisks.” London. 1385. p. 2. W. M. Evarts. then Secretary of State;
on pp. 3—4 is printed the letter of Consul-General F arman to Secretary Evarts; pp. 50-53. the address of
Mr. Evarts at the re-erection of the obelisk in New York. January 22. 1881.

62

