NOVEMBER 1888 TO JULY 1889]

that though both men were buried many years ago, he often comes
down to visit him at night with a lantern. For Sheikh Saeed is a
mongool, a spirit-wanderer. Omar has not seen him, but he has seen
his lantern. Everybody in Donka sees it often.

November 30, I888 A little strained by yesterday’s work I went to
see the Girl’s School. The white teachers had
gone to inspect the School which our Consul Mishragy supports; it
has one hundred twenty day scholars. So Aneeta, a pretty native
teacher who has been in America, took me about. The other teachers
and the scholars seemed so shy that the only way I could make them
do anything was at the blackboard, with their backs turned. They
could write English and Arabic and Cipher in Arabic very well.
When the Scotch women returned, Aneeta silently faded away.

Afternoon Aboo Shanab and I went to the Mountain and he made
three photographs to show the devastation of the tombs. The Stabl
Antar, I think, has not been attacked since last year. The upper
tomb of the same man has had the whole front blown off, including
all the hieroglyphics, and the northern tomb has lost its front and
roof and the back wall is greatly damaged by the fall of rocks from
above.

December I, 1888 After going to the post ofﬁce and seeing Seleeb

we sailed. I ﬁxed a straw arm chair so as to be
hoisted up on the rear mast to get a View. We could not perceive
that the boat sailed better for inclining the mast, though Aboo
Shanab suggests the men are not anxious she should sail better. We
tied up at Abooteeg under its twin minarets at dark.

Deceméer 2, 1888 At noon we reached Raaineh and went on in the

felucca to near Sheikh Gaber one-eighth mile
north of which is the very peculiar tomb of Kakhent‘. It is cut in a
projecting spar of rock. The larger, upper, eastern tunnel is devoted
to him with one wife, the middle to him with another, and the third,
the lowest, which is only just begun, to a woman who is a prophetess

 

I. H. Kees. “Studien zur agyptischen Provinzialkunst." Leipzig. 1921: “Hemamle.” pp. 17-32. and
Plates III-VI; Flinders Petrie. Hemamieh. in E. Mackay. "Bahrein." London. 1929.

485

