NOVEMBER 1888 T0 JULY 1889]

Of old the channel’s name was Goodway Usertesen; now its name be-
came the way made good by Thothmes III the immortal, and, he
adds, the ﬁshers of Elephantine are to dig it out every year. But for
many years these ﬁshers have taken good care not to dig it out;
they get money for pulling vessels up the Way in which the stones
seem to have been accumulating ever since Third Thothmes time.
The best inscription I found was of thirty-two long lines, and very
hard to make out, of a King Kharserl, whose name I have never be-
fore seen. We rowed back in three-quarters of an hour.

February 7, 1889 By the nine o’clock train we went to Philae. The

Scotchman had his watch at nine when we started,
but comparing with me, set it forward twenty minutes; he said it was
mail day and he had been very busy. The guardian’s son-in-law took
us over to the Island where I found Bénédite, just up from his Sinai
voyage”. He told me that sent out to correct the two hundred inscrip-
tions already published he had found about two thousand and had
left about twelve hundred to do. They are nothing but men’s names
and it is very tedious work. He hopes to work two months here be-
fore going down to Cairo. It is a pity this Sinai work was put upon
him, for he has two good years' work more here. He told me Grébaut
turned off the Keeper, for not reporting the three Englishmen I
found house-keeping in the Mammisi last year, and only reinstated
him at their earnest solicitation! On arrival I had told the guardian
that he must not let the Berbery dahabeeyeh, which they were re-
pairing on the island, stay; and soon Seeam who had gone to this his
beled appeared and told me his and the guardian’s fathers were
brothers, and would I not say anything about the boat to Grébaut; it
should go away at once. Bénédite says the Assuan hotel is taken up
by employees of the Government and that if they build ﬁve more
rooms for next year, as they say, they will be taken up too. For he
who can sleep in any other house in Assuan can sleep in any place on
earth. We had taken our side-saddles and took donkeys at the village
below whence in half an hour we rode to Mehallah, opposite my
stele and there found my felucca which in another half hour put us on

 

I. Kharoer. read afterwards Zeser.
2. See Ch. Boreux. "Georges Bénédite.” in “Revue de l’Egypte ancienne." vol. I. 1927. pp. 252-353. and 370
the bibliography of this voyage in the Sinai.

515

