DECEMBER 1880 T0 APRIL 1881]

They both now come to me to know the value of anything inscribed.
I opened a papyrus for Mustapha last week enough to see that it be-
longed to a woman “La Syrienne” by name, of whom he had the
statue and pieces of whose mummy case I had seen over the shed of
Mohammed Abd-er-Rasool. The suspenders are said to have come
from her mummy but I cannot believe it.

Last night young Todros, who speaks English and German very
well, came to see me. An Arab had left with them a basket of frag-
ments of papyri till noon to-day; would I come and see if anything
could be made out of them. This is just what I want, to see and be
able to copy all the new things found. Most of them are scattered
through Europe without coming under an intelligent eye and chance
only reveals them afterwards. Maspero should be here now in a week.

LUXOR The weather is still perfect. Yesterday Mr. Dubois
[Marc/z 25, 1881 (Chas. E.), Miss Fagundus and I went to the
Tombs of the Kings and I have never had so cool a
day there. Aly Hussein was there with a man, water and paper and
we took paper stamps of the new Cow Room till the water gave out.
My part of the work was to number the sheets as my Arabs were not
learned. Miss F agundus seems quite disgusted with Egypt; her only
idea is to see quickly what must be seen and then leave this unlucky
land as soon as possible. Mr. Dubois has not done much work here;
he came mainly to recover from a severe pleurisy which kept him in
bed three months. i

In a week all will be gone but me, and then probably Maspero will
have come and I shall arrive in Cairo with him, when I cannot well
say, but he cannot spare many days on the river. His discovery of the
Pyramid of Unas is thrice important; it contradicts the received
theory that the Mastabat el Faraoon is his tomb; it shows what is
and it gives a complete version of the long religious text found in the
two other pyramids, but there much broken. I shall not bring many
new hieroglyphics but I shall know my old ones in their homes and re-
reading printed texts with this added interest I shall know too where
to begin next time and how. Aly has just brought in the paper casts
and I shall work on them to-day.

61

