[CHAPTERFIVE

in the carlight to be counted and I could not make them come twice
alike. Of these one hundred and forty-three car-light count, are more
or less annotated by Lepsius; the others are mostly such as I have
been unable elsewhere to ﬁnd. The cost of them is 1421 MK.6 5 and I
have paid on it the check I brought from Paris for eight hundred
marks. They are to pack the books without cost and send them in
May when I order them sent. Among them is a copy of Champollion’s
Monuments, the four vols. bound in two and lacking many plates; but
many of the plates have large MSS. additions of hieroglyphics,
which, I think, have never been published. There is nothing of the
kind in his copy of Rosellini, nor of his own Denkmc’i/er, to which he
has added little that is useful, except references to other publications
of or concerning the same texts. I had hoped to ﬁnd many corrections
which would be of aid in making a text to the Denkmd/er there is but
little. Still I came within twenty dollars of buying it; they were so ob-
stinate as not quite to come to my offer of three hundred and twenty
dollars. I think it will be cheaper next year.

The result is that I have one-ﬁfth of the library, in numbers, at
one-twelfth, of its price, and the notes of about ninety volumes
more (costing over six thousand marks) many of them folios, includ-
ing Rosellini and the Denkméz'ler, to show for my three weeks’ labor.
You may guess that I worked morning and afternoon in the Lager-
haus and took books away with me for the evenings, and that I was
very lucky in my Fraulein. She copied, she looked through books
and noted marked papers, she read all the notes to me except of
those books which were too big to take away, and of those I fac-
similed what I could not read, and, except very few words, she was
able to read my facsimiles. I gave her for it something less than your
sewing woman’s wages, and the Dr. Sophianos from Athens, whom
you may some day see in Paris, here student of law, came to see me
off and brought a note of thanks for the “rich present.” Between him
and me at table sat the Pastor Achilles, aforetime prior of an abbey,
now student of theology at the cost of the Greek government. They
rejoiced hilariously whenever I exploded a new Greek word on them.
On my left was the student of Zoology, Wilson of Springﬁeld, 111.,
and then beyond the Frau and the Fraulein, Bernardo Calcani from
Milan, student of Comptabilité, who in parting, invited me to 44 Via

330

