NOVEMBER I885 TO MAY 1886]

autopsy of the two who had died showed the cholera bacilli in one
only. He was sure that if they had no more cases, there would be no
quarantine at Alexandria; we might not be able to go on shore at
Corfu. Then he showed us plans for the extension of the commercial
facilities of the town, already great. For here the east lands nearest
to the heart of Europe and the hundred steamers of the Austrian
Lloyds go out the Pillars of Hercules to cross the South Atlantic and
through the red heat of the Red Sea to India and farthest China.
They have just built them a Palace in Trieste, in an architecture
which has made the Ring in Vienna the ﬁnest street in the world.
Jews, too, the largest stockholder is Rothschild. The Compagnie
Transatlantique over again. The improvements of the town include
an Elevated Railroad, and the Baron, as well as I, was able to tell
what a wonderful help it is. I left them together, and bought my
ticket boldly and in a few minutes was on board and happy, thanks
to the cheer which came from the old man’s looks and words. The
news I brought encouraged three Scotch Smiths who came around
from Venice the night before to the Hotel to take the boat. In a few
minutes we were off on a restful sea and all the afternoon through the
clear cold air we paced the deck and saw ﬁrst rise and then fall, the
mountains behind the city, a stairway to the skies. Far away to the
west the Venetian horizon threatened heaven with its white teeth
and all adown the Istrian coast the sun lighted up bright Italian
towns against dark wooded hills. The Doctor, from Lake Constance,
tells me that these towns are all irridenti, as is the heart of Trieste
though its interest is all Austrian, and that immediately back of
them, often only a quarter of an hour, begins the Slavic tongue and
race; the Italians have only the coast. I read the six Galignani’s on
board with much interest, famished for news since I left Paris; I
suppose you will think to send me some papers by and by. This
Minerva is jogging along ten knots an hour over her four hundred
and eighty miles to Corfu, perhaps as fast as Homer’s when in the
Odyssey, which I have been reading to-day, “She fastened under her
feet beautiful sandals, immortal and golden, which bore her over the
waters as over the boundless land like the breath of the wind.”
“Blue-eyed” was she and “ox-eyed,” while ours has two bulls’-eyes,
one red, one green. But dress shows the world’s advance; our

333

