[CHAPTER TWO

of tombs near the Oasis of El Khargeh with gilded mummies and
that he will bring me one when he goes next November.

Old Mustapha has an immense pile of bricks about his temple
house, placed there to increase his damages when he is driven out.
But I console him by telling him that they will build the British Gov—
ernment a new house. He doesn’t want that; he wants damages for

Mustapha.

Tuesday I loafed about and tried to keep warm and went

yanuary I7, 1882 to Karnak in the afternoon and straightened out

the texts of the Twenty-second Dynasty Bubas-

tis gate, where the Biblical Shishak appears.1 Read the second story in
Spitta last evening with Mme. Lyde, who has got on very well.

Wednesday This morning at eight o’clock there was white
yanuary 18, I882 frost on the deck. Everybody is saying what ex-
ceptional weather it is. You know they always
do. But we surely had nothing like it last year. I went to the exami-
nation of the Coptic Presbyterian school. Dr. Lansing, who called on
me last night, was in his glory. The Wekeel2 of the Mudir was there
from Keneh and the Howland-Belmont dahabeeyeh folks. The
teacher was taught at Sioot, the scholars all Copts except only the
son of the American Consul. They did grammar and geography and
arithmetic in Arabic and read English translating it phrase by phrase
into Arabic and recited poetry in both languages, the Consul’s son
doing “Twinkle, twinkle, little Star” and a smaller boy following
with a translation thereof which the Arabic audience appreciated.
Some little birds seemed to consider themselves a part of the school
and ﬂew in and out and sat about as though it were made for them.
One seemed a little bashful, there were so many visitors; he clung to
the side of the window and reached his head around, as if wondering,
but did not dare come in. Then I went to Karnak again.

Maspero has asked the Wekeel to condemn the robbers of my tem—
ple to bring the stones back again and rebuild it, as I suggested to
him, but he wants me to direct the work. This involves ﬁtting to-

I. To the “Topographical Bibliography" of Porter and Moss. vol. II. p. I4.add J .Lammeyer.“Dao Siege-
denkmal des Konigs Scheschonk I zu Karnak." Neuss a. Rh.. 1907.
2. “’ekeel. sub-director.

116

