[CHAPTER THREE

WAITING FOR A man came up from the Museum this morning but
THE MAIL without our letters and more than two weeks are due.
Saturday We consoled ourselves thinking Piehl would bring

ﬂpril 7, I883 them at noon. Piehl came with two or three things

which had arrived since they had been sent and we

wait more anxiously than before. Maspero’s brother, Hervé, is now
coming across from Heluan and we hope he has them, but there is
much abuse of Brugsch for Maspero sent formal order that Abd-el-
Megeed be sent with them this morning. Vassilli, who knows the
place, does not have his sent to the Museum and he received his yes-
terday, forwarded from the post ofﬁce at Cairo to Bedreshayn. I
should do the same again; Brugsch is too careless. Herve brought a
valise of letters and papers ...... It is indeed amusing here to
hear of the wonderful governing capacity of the English and what
miracles Dufferin has accomplished. He really has done nothing but
endorse some projects which Egyptians have been urging; and if he
be such a great governor, they need him far more in Ireland, his na-
tive country, or in England, the country which he serves.

Mme. St. Amant 5 tea- kettle provokes general admiration here. If

Linnie could sit as I do at table beside Vassilli, who was with Gari-

baldi in every expedition, she would hear much more than Tom

Hicks can tell. Every time that Garibaldi started, Vassilli gave up

his business or resigned his position and went. A well-preserved old

man of seventy I hope you may all see him in Paris or in Egypt some
day. He talks of resigning his place, which is next to Maspero’s, this

spring ......

Sunday Maspero has gone over to ﬁnish his copy of Nofer-
April 8, 1883 kara Pepi’s pyramid which we went to ﬁnish on the
up voyage, but didn’t quite. Vassilli is with him to
point out some things before he leaves the service. I have read more
of my papers and written this and in the afternoon will take Mme.
Maspero over the ﬁeld of Memphis. She too has been having bad
eyes and wears big black glasses. I think next week I shall cross the
water, just how I shall not know for two or three days. Charmes pro-
poses that I go with him as far as Athens. I am strongly tempted to
come straight to Paris, but it is too early.

252

