DECEMBER 1880 T0 APRIL 1881]

village and spent more time trying to make me understand about the
clover. But I am sure she did not mean it audit was only for the
novel pleasure of saying a few words to a stranger. The sound of the
Arab bag-pipe across the meadows invited us to a wedding in the
village, but we went to the station where I chatted with the Italian
contractor for a new depot there not yet roofed over and a French
architect who had been out for a day’s shooting; a famous architect,
who is building the house of St. Maurice, one of the sights of Cairo
to which your Consul gets you a permit, and who gave me unedited
details of Arab marriages and life and so whiled away the time
through the sunset and the moonlight till the train took us to Cairo.

At the station a harem got out with much solemnity and got into
the ﬁne carriages which were waiting for them; I have been advising
the ladies here to travel in the compartments for Dames S eu/es.

To-day I have done little but loaf and walk out with poor little
Boston Lanier whose smaller sister takes such good care of him. The
Consul came to see what I had found. One stone speaks of the
“Hathor of the Sycamore of the South” to whom Ramses II built a
temple in Memphis; another of the pyramid from which the royal
mummy came. Then there are one or two odd titles about which I
must ask Mr. Brugsch.

STILL AT SHEPH EARD’s I suppose I have some letters at Luxor and I
january 17, 1881 must go up to-morrow even though I should
have to sleep for three days in the parlor. I

have had nothing since'the letter asking me to stay till M. Maspero
came. Day before yesterday I did little but invite my soul and
repose from Sakkarah the day before. Yesterday the Consul took me
over to Gizeh where we got some of the fruits of my journeyings. He
took them; they are too bulky for me. He seems a good-natured man
and to count considerably on me. It is pleasant to be of some impor-
tance. In the afternoon I went to the photographer Helios who, to
show me his process, made me sit twice. If mine won’t work he cer-
tainly has a good process for Egypt, quick and effective if not cheap.
Judge Batcheller told me of an ostrich farm near the Virgin’s tree at
Matariyeh, which I must see when I come back, though they say the
feathers are not equal to those raised at the Cape of Good Hope.

27

