NOVEMBER 1885 TO MAY 1886]

Pére Samuel’s garden. Then we came to Luxor, arriving at nine. The
Italian Consul got off his guns; we heard Aly Moorad’s snap three
times and then we were by; Todros and Mustapha did not try to
salute us. At night Arabs are quiet. But Abd el Megeed came for me
and we went through the half resurrected temple and saw the statues
which are coming to light and then to the house of Aly Moorad, who
was holding a fantaiseeyeh. And there was Philo Adams, who was
seeing for the ﬁrst time the same girl in the candle dance whom I saw
in it my ﬁrst night in Luxor. Aly Moorad was glad all over; he did not
weary of asking how I was and about my family and Mrs. Moulton.
His boy, like all the other boys of ﬁve years ago has added nearly a
cubit to his stature and Aly proudly said; He can write Arabic and
English. Perhaps he too Yitla Par/2a! Philo is delighted with Luxor and
wonders why everybody does not come here for the winter. So do I.
Grébaut and his sister went over to Karnak to see it by full moon-
light and came back in ecstasy. Ever so many dusky folk came to
salute me, though it was night.

Yesterday I saw with the little telescope in the early morning
Kaleefeh, Old Leatherface, sitting on the west shore waiting for a
boat. He waited long but ﬁnally one went and soon he was waiting
alongside our steamer. He promises much and his camel is to meet
me on the west side tomorrow morning. I saw the collections of Abd
el Megeed and Mohammed Mohassib, took a little Demotic papyrus
and two lines of Hieratic on leather from one and a mess of costly
papyrus from the other. Of one piece I have great hopes when it
shall be unrolled in Paris by Penelli. It lacks the beginning but from
the glimpse I took at the risk of tearing it, I believe it to be a tale.
I dare not speak of it to anybody until it shall be unrolled.

Tuesday evening Maspero received from General Grenfell1 at
Assuan this telegram: “We have discovered three large rock temples
or tombs in the hill under Sheikh’s tomb northwest of Assuan. I am
carrying on excavations with soldiers and am sending you a descrip-
tion and some sketches of hieroglyphics. Nothing of value found.
Tombs full of broken mummy cases, but paintings are very fresh

I. E. A. \Vallis Budge. "Excavations made at Aswén. by Major-General Sir F. Grenfell. during the years
1885 and 1886," in “Proceedings of the Society of Biblical Archaeology," vol. X. 1887—1888. pp. 4—40;
Id. “By Nile and Tigris.” London. 1920. vol. I, pp. 86-94; A. H. Sayce “Reminiscences.” London.
1923, p. 239 et. seq.

351

