DECEMBER 1880 TO APRIL 1881]

Tomb1 where an old fellow went down into the ﬁfty foot deep pit and
brushed away the sand with which he had previously covered the
black sarcophagus, and I read from the few hieroglyphs exposed
enough to show that its owner was born under Twenty-sixth Dynasty
Hop/z-ra; we went on by the Tomb of Mr. Gocal-Pm}:-tS‘piritJ2 most of
which has gone to Berlin, to the Temple of the huge granite blocks
and of alabaster, which is to me a Riddle of the Sphinx. It has no
hieroglyphs but only huge polished granite surfaces, the color being
almost exactly that of the Rocks of Seaconnet; Tomb or Temple or
both, texts must yet be found to reveal. So to the Sphinx, two—
thirds buried in the sand. The mighty god is sadly gnawed in the
softer strata of his sides by time, and his nose is foully mutilated by
some iconoclastic drill. Yet the god remains triumphant over the
Saracen and the Centuries, long to survive I hope even the claw of
the Christian. The red of the face which marked him an Egyptian
god, worn away from the upper part by the sand storms and rain-
falls of ﬁfty centuries, is still thick and strong on cheeks and chin.
The crown is broken off, the upper part of the uraeus is gone, the nose
has been split away, yet you feel the presence of that Royal Sun-God
whose stele deep under the sand still tells that he was as ancient to
Fourth Thothmes as he is to us. It is the Survival of the Biggest.

Then back to carriages (we got over the bad piece of road this
time in ten minutes) and to watch the greens and reds and gold and
purples, the Sunset behind the Pyramids till dusk found us at
Shepheard’s in time for dinner.

Sheikh Ibrahim told me they had one hundred and ﬁfty men ex—
cavating; they have uncovered a paved way from the second Pyra-
mid to the Granite Temple by the Sphinx, and that at Sakkarah
still more men are at work. He says they have opened a pyramid
there and a tomb in which there is a sarcophagus and hieroglyphs and
a statue which it took eight men to carry and that if I go over I can
see them. I shall try it. This is enough to go upon. IfI get in I shall
see the Wonder; it may be guarded, yet I can but try. I know much
better than Ibrahim what it is.

 

r. "Campbell's Tomb." Baedeker. “Egypt." pp. 148—149. Porter-Moss. “Topographical Bibliography,"
vol. III. p. 57.

2. Good-Ptah-Spirits is the English translation of the Egyptian name Neferbauptah of the Tomb no. 15.
See Porter-Moss. "Topographical Bibliography." vol. III. pp. 11—15.

I3

