DECEMBER 1880 T0 APRIL 1881]

ALEXANDRIA There is a mail this morning and I want you to
Deceméer 23, I880 know that I got through all right with an excel-
lent passage and only one dinner given to the
Company—the ﬁrst smooth passage for some time. Went to see Miss
Harris last night; she had company and introduced me to lots of peo—
ple. Menib is no longer avocat du contentieux; perhaps I shall ﬁnd
him but I want to go to Cairo to-day. I will write more about the
voyage and the arrival when I cease to be a part of the boat. Now I
have a kind of gentle roll to which this ﬁxed table in the good Hotel
de l’Europe does not respond. But it is mild compared with what I
have had after other voyages.

CAIRO Africa does not yet stand still. Three nights

Chrirtmas Day, 1880 on shore and yet I am treading down the

Shep/ream”: Hotel rolling of the Peluse. Not that she rolled so

much, for the passage was very smooth (only

one dinner sacriﬁced to the Company, and one breakfast to Nep-

tune) but I was quite used to that rolling and involuntarily keep it
up. This morning it is less and I hope I may write a little.

So many pictures stand between me and the voyage that somehow
it seems shadowy. I remember one long table, partly occupied, at
which I was the seventh on the right of the big quiet Captain. Be—
tween us were Victor, son of Lesseps, dark, stupid and stuck up, who
read Jules Verne, and his Greek wife, the late widow Negropon t, who
read La 1/ z'ez'l/e Garde by Nast-Ricouard and Le Fil: dc Com/i6 and
whose tournure and allures suggested imitation of the half-great
ladies of Paris; then broad-headed young Dauprat, who is in the Suez
Canal ofﬁce here with De L[esseps] who went to Panama. .

(Here a two hours’ visit from Brugsch,1 who, poor man, has lost
mother, wife and one daughter out of the pleasant household, in
which, three years ago, he welcomed me in Gottingen. His family
is in a Villa in Charlottenburg near Berlin; he has been sent back
to Egypt by his doctor. He showed me carefully how to ﬁnd his
house, which is quite near and where he has many things to show
me. He is full of ﬁre when talking of his science but only then. We
talked mostly of Egyptian religion. He thinks the sun worship

1. Heinrich Karl Brugsch, German Egyptologist (1827—1894). See the paper of Gaston Maspero reprinted
in the Smithsonian Institution. Annual Report 1896. p. 667—672; Heinrich Brugsch. “Mein Leben und
mein Wandern." Berlin. and edit. 1894.

 

3

