[CHAPTERsrx

which Linnie and Dora could understand. And to-morrow imhallahl
we all go to Philae whence Ned and Victor are now returning. I had
hoped to see Henry B. Stanton once more. I am going to the Post
Ofﬁce to see Gladios, who was postmaster at Luxor six years ago and
to get the week’s butter, from Isigny—the best butter region in
France.

ESNEH We have reached this capital after stopping seven
March I, 1887 days in Assuan for Philae and six days at Edfoo in
the temple. At Edfoo I corrected a lot of texts,
published by Naville & Dﬁmichen and the ladder on which I stood
seems to have done my left foot no good. Ned has been very busy
with sketches and Victor is getting on; some of his portraits of these
people are quite striking. He seems to like to draw folks best. Dora
and Linnie learn Arabic and ride about a good deal and Lottie often
goes with them. I think Linnie’s journal will interest you some day.
We have been greatly interested in the Compton news and hope that
the new steamer will go as steadily as the Seven Hat/20m. At Edfoo I
bought a black granite tablet found ten days before in the debris of
the Old City with this Greek Inscription:

“To King Ptolemy and Queen Arsinoe,
“Gods, Philopators, and to Serapis
“And Isis, Pyrrhus’ Son Lichas, the
“Acarnarian, the General sent out
“Upon the hunt of the Elephants.
“The Second-—”2

The pious general, loyal as well as pious, had, it seems, set up an-
other, perhaps in some other holy place.

I bought also some glass found by one Said, while searching for
old burnt bricks, in a big earthen jar—twojugs and seventeen cups:
&c. A lot of fragments besides.

I. “A: God pleases."

2. J. P. Mahaﬂ'y. “Documents égyptiena," in "Bulletin dc Correspondanoe Hellénique." Paris. vol.
XVIII. 1894. pp. 148-149; Max L. Strack. ”Die Dynastic der Ptolemaer." Berlin, 1897, p. 237. no. 56;
M. Rostowzew. “Zur Geschichte des Ost- und Sﬂdhandels im ptolemﬁisch-rbmischen Aegypten" in
”Archiv fﬂr Papyrusforschung und vcrwandte Gebiete.” Leipzig, vol. IV. 1008. pp. 301—304. “Die
Organisation der Elefantenjagd."

424

