NOVEMBER 1885 T0 MAY 1886]

baby of his fellow miller, and was somewhere on a sandbank in the
returning postal boat. I paraded through the town a little, saw a new
sort of mummy without decoration except in wonderful wrapping
with narrow bands (to bring it down carefully Insinger took it on his
dahabeeyeh) and then a Gurnah man, Ahmed Hassan Dobbe took
me with much mystery to a Copt’s house where after an hour’s
delay, I was shown a lot of decayed embroidery taken from mummy
wrappings. Our notions of its value did not coincide, I do not like
things that are not clean and cannot be washed.

Monday Guy Lussac left us early this morning. His wife did
March 15, 1886 not feel well enough to visit the Valley of Sheikh
Shahoon where Professor Sayce had seen inscrip-
tions not seen by us when we were there years ago. I had been up in
the night and did not go; had I felt like a long ride I should have
gone rather to the Eighteenth Dynasty tomb we searched four years
ago, and which Khaleel has seen, and can take me to. The missing
postal steamer, after two days on a sandbank, brought Frénay in
time to go with Maspero, who on his return reported a big rock with
perhaps two thousand inscriptions, of which he and Bouriantl had
copied the more important, Hieratic, Hieroglyphic, Greek and one
Phenician. Maspero thinks it was a great resort for hunting parties;
game must come thither from the desert for water.

Insinger thought he would go no further with us. He cannot go
down to Cairo so early. So to our regret, and I think to his also, we
left him and his Syrienne and their‘two babies and her younger sister,
and

SIOOT steamed northwards. It is strange how much less
Tuesday we look at the scenery on the down trip. Maspero
March 16, 1886 works on his Pyramid of Pepi; I read much and
write little. We keep steadily onward, pass in

trepidation the sand bank of Saadfeh where the postal boat rested so
long, and before two o’clock are at Sioot. Maspero had some business,
so I went with Morel to the Tombs and the Cemetery. The quarry
men are threatening all the tombs and have blown away a few hiero-

 

I. U. Bouriant. “Notes de Voyage— 53 Le Roche: de la Vallée d'AkhmIm" in “Recueil dc travaux." vol.
XI. 1889. pp. 145-149.

379

