[CHAPTER FOUR

sits down. But it has been a tiring day and the postal steamer is
lying here ready to take this northward at daybreak.

Luxon Yesterday Maspero went over to explore the
February 24, I884 road to and the Tomb of the Old King Ay; I
had said I thought it would be about two and
a half times the work to take his sarcophagus to the river that it was
to take the sarcophagus of last year; he thought it about the same.
When he came back he said he had difﬁculty in ﬁnding the tomb, and
that it would take three months to get it down and could not be
thought of this year. It is the Nitocris story again. The obelisk of
Entef, the oldest one known is still in the mud of the Nile, but it is
exposed, he tells me in the summer; he thinks it hardly worth while
taking it out; it would cost too much. I have a mind to offer to do it
if he will give it to me. It weighs only about four tons and one might
rope it between a couple of boats and when the Nile begins to rise it
would ﬂoat it on to high ground, or even ﬂoat it down to Alexandria,
without change. This obelisk is of the Eleventh Dynasty, while that
at Heliopolis, the oldest large one, is of the Twelfth.

Twenty-seven of the houses in the Temple of Luxor are down and
the Consul of France exchanges his house which sheltered Lady
Duff Gordon,1 for land to build another on so that the work is pro-
gressing.

I gave Aly Moorad the watch—chain Mrs. Moulton sent him and
he was very glad and told me with delight of the letter she sent him
last summer. Mr. Pomeroy has sent up to him for thirty-six scara-
bées; I do not know whether as bakhsheesh, or no. A Dutchman here
in a dahabeeyeh for the ﬁfth time dined with us; he reports that the
people as far as Wadi Halfa are as cordial as ever, and an English
dahabeeyeh has just come down. So the telegraph being open as far
as Khartoom, I think there is no danger for us in going to Philae at
present. I met our VViirtembergress with Mr. Landberg in the sand
yesterday and introduced them to Aly Moorad up whose steps they
went. She seemed happy, but in her gray woolen dress and with her

 

I. “Lucie Duff-Gordon. English woman of letters (1821-1869) won the hearts of her Arab dependents
and neighbours. She doctored their sick. taught their children. and sympathized with their sorrows."
Encyclopaedia Britannica. See for the house. Lady Duff-Gordon's "Letters from Egypt." Revised

edition. London. 1902, pp. 84-85.

274

