[CHAPTERFIVE

contract signed and paid four guineas on the ten. His father wanted
him to marry her right away, but he thought it as well to wait a year
or two. The girl is nine. Gen. Grenfell’s dahabeeyeh has been towed
down here this morning; I suppose he is so far on his way to Khar-
toom; Gen. Stephenson preceded him and has got as far as Cairo.
Day before yesterday a boat with seven hundred soldiers, the results
of the late victory, went down. Oﬁicially there were less than ﬁfty
wounded, English and Egyptian. And they say there are twelve
thousand troops around and above Khartoom.

A wretched little Prince Hohenzollern occupies one little room at
the Hotel of Cook. He is condemned to solitary conﬁnement even
when out of doors, as he does not wish to speak with anybody. He
calls himself the Comte de Bergh and in Paris was supposed to be
the King of Bavaria trying to raise money to quiet his creditors.

Lepsius’ successor, Erman,1 will be here to-night. Toda objects to
him that his wife blacks his shoes.

LUXOR For the four days last there is little to record. It
Tuesday has been mainly a period of repose. Only this
Feb'uary 2, I886 morning I worked on Lepsius’ books of the sta-
tistical tablets of Karnak‘l and I worked so long
over there that I forgot all about noon and breakfast. When I came
back the deck was covered with an interesting ﬁnd from a tomb in
Deir e1 Medeenet,3 mummies and chairs and stools and a bed, besides
all the usual things. And it wasn’t until half past three that I remem-
bered breakfast. There is also a long stone on which is written a story
about something in the Twelfth Dynasty, though the tomb is of the
Twentieth.

Grébaut’s photography seems to have a period of repose also; so I
have got a little board to ﬁt my lenses to Insinger’s apparatus and I
hope to get him to do some things for me, 2. [a Charley Janes. My
two hundred thirty-ﬁve—pound friend, Mr. Ware, came up on the

I. Adolf Erman. German Egyptologist (1854—). see his book: ”Mein Werden und mein Wirken. Erinner-
ungen eines alten Berliner Gelehrten." Leipzig, 1929, pp. 205 et. seq.

2. The Annals of Thutmosis III: Porter-Moss, "Topographical Bibliography." vol. II, Oxford. 1929. pp.
33~34 and 36-37.

3. Eduardo Toda. “Estudios Egiptologicos. Son—Notém en Tebas. inventario y textos de un sepulcro
cgipcio de la XX dinastia.” Madrid, 1887; see also "Annales du Service des Antiquités," vol. XX. 1920.
pp. 145-160 with an Introduction and Remarks by G. Daressy.

358

