NOVEMBER 1885 TO MAY 1886]

I went out with the Eatons after dinner to see the processions.
They were much vexed when told ten minutes after we started out,
that the King and Queen had passed before their eyes at the head of
a procession ﬁve minutes before. The Greek crowd is rather contem-
plative than excitable, and it seems not at all excited by the Dano-
Russian royalty which has been imposed upon the country. All
Athens was in the streets and we saw it several times, with accom-
paniment of ﬁre-crackers and rockets and bengal lights. There were
many processions each with banners and a huge black cross, march-
ing to dead music. Big Friday is a great day for Athens.

Saturday My morning teacher was sick but I read in the
April 24, 1886 papers what I did not notice last night, that all these
painted and broidered dead Christs were carried in

the processions and that King and Queen (she in black), and their
nineteen-year-old Constantine, followed that of St. George’s Church,
until they began to be too much remarked and greeted. It seems
that it is the pious thing to go about to all the churches in one’s best
dress and in each to kiss (aspazomai, whence Aspasia) “the greatest
of corpses.” The news is mainly about companies and regiments
forming and going to the frontier and so many hundred boxes of
Gras muskets arriving from Trieste. Every day Greece is growing
stronger, and Turkey too, apparently. There is indignation at the
threats of “The Powers” and a cold, clear north wind which makes
an overcoat comfortable. Foucart called while I was in Schliemann’s

Mycenae.

ATHENS People were up so much Saturday night that I did
Monday not ﬁnd many out yesterday when I went over to
Afpril 26, 1886 see the hills west of the Acropolis. The Observatory
Rock is called Hill of the Nymphs because of an in-

scription I did not ﬁnd, but I did ﬁnd, somewhat above that cellar-
door-like slope on the south edges of the rock, which has been given
the ﬁnest polish I ever saw on marble by women sliding down it that
they might replenish the earth, a very ancient inscription, sculp-

tured backwards as the most ancient are, which reads: The Mount of
Zeus.

399

