NOVEMBER 1887 TO MAY r888]

but in spite of the Afreet, the men worked away. Though there were
three or four other boats lying there and rotting to prove his power.
Osman Pacha’s little S eroora, which Miss Plankington entertained us
in last year, was out in front and the Pacha had assured me there
would be no danger to her. My boat, he said, when she rushed down,
would be turned away by the current. But the currentjust there was
nothing, rather backwater instead, and I was not sure. The Seven
Hathor: lay parallel with the stream, head up river, and she was to
shoot in angularly. Especially I feared for a large dahabeeyeh next
above us, the one Abd-el-Noor had at Geergeh, now sold and painted
smart. Her rais after waiting long and in vain to be paid for moving
her, ﬁnally did, and the work went on. The capstan pulled the prow
to the water. Then a hundred men, with the help of the Nebby and
several saints against the Afreet, pushed in her bow; it went almost
under. Then they pushed at the stern and slowly she slumped in;
we might have left everything in her and sat on deck. She moved
forward a rod, pushed against the bank and was aﬂoat at eleven
forty-ﬁve A. M. There is a bottle less in one of the baskets. In the
afternoon the mast was set up. The stair-work is nearly done; the big
bedroom promises to be comfortable; the painting is begun. I have
had Aly on hand to take care of the things, as he knows best what
they are.

Aboo Shanab is on his feet again, but he shouted himself hoarse
yesterday. It looks as though we might be off in time to reach Sioot
December ﬁfteenth with luck. If you do not like the snow, come
earlier. You can join us at Minieh and you will want to stop some
time here. Dr. Lansing and wife and Miss Thompson have been in to
see me. He seems much better.

Evening 1 have spent the day on board and the work, sailors, car-
penters and painting, goes bravely on.

SHEPHEARD’S It is the anniversary of the raising of my ﬂag,
Noveméer 25, 1887 and Aboo Shanab and I attended an auction of
four dahabeeyehs which belonged to the dead

dentist, Broadway. They brought nearly twice as much as we
thought they would. Two, useless for sailing, were bought to live in

437

