DECEMBER 1882 T0 APRIL 1883]

Moorad’s and commended him to his care. Mohammed likes Arabi
and hates the English. He had been out as guide to some English so]-
diers this morning and, strange to say, he objected to the odor of
them. Mohammed has been speculating a little in wheat and wheat
has fallen. Todros has much more. Mustafa Aga is happily saved
from that by lack of money. But he always holds his divan under the
pillars of the great temple in the afternoon. And no man would leave
so great a void in Luxor society. He speaks English well enough so
that you may have a talk with him on almost anything he knows
about and he always has about some anteekeh, and anteekeh-

peddlers.

THE POSTAL STEAMER The postal steamer came with your two let-

ters and Dora’s and Jennie’s and Mrs.
Coleman’s. What a life Mrs. Coleman leads, so really unreal, and I
am afraid Jane will never get out of her harness in this world. Useful
necks invite yokes. I am interested in all that Dora tells so smartly.
When the Leveys left Cairo they were to stop at Nice, Mme. and
Corinne, and Félicie to come to them for the winter. It seems to me
your face has afflicted you long enough for all your sins; I wish you
had some of this sunshine to apply to it; I think it would be better
than Zinc even. The American Register and Mail: are much read by
Maspero and Charmes as well as by me, the more as there is no
Time: at the Hotel this year. Charmes has plenty of French papers.
Besides I do not attribute much importance to the changes of minis-
try in France. The French are learning to govern themselves under a
form of government which is very faulty. It was intended to make a
continued Republic impossible and would, were not the people so
nearly unanimous in wanting it. This saves the name of the Republic
for a government which is essentially unrepublican. Suppose our
state government, abolished, all legislation and appointments cen-
tred in Washington, and that the President’s secretaries with their
appointing power could be changed by a vote of the House of Repre-
sentatives. Would not times be lively, especially if the old traditions
of the two parties were abolished and there were only such detached
groups as a common interest might form. This is what makes so
much petty commotion in political France. But the fever is not dan-

217

