[CHAPTER TWO

there. Coming back Mrs. Hagens told me that Judge Batchellerl said
he early last winter gave me a card to Spitta and after that I ought to
have called on him. I had forgotten all about it because Henry
Brugsch took me to see Spitta. But I acknowledge that he is right,
though I confess I thought I was staying away because he had not in-
vited me.

Thursday morning at the Museum. There are many curious things
about the new mummies. One of the women has a very little baby
mummy in the same case. And in the inscription, the baby girl, who
probably died at birth with her mother,2 is called “the grand wife of a
King” or the Sultana. With one mummy a wasp has been embalmed.
Many have ﬂowers, lotus, larkspur and others; Schweinfurth3 is in—
vestigating them. He says some of the species are extinct.

In the afternoon Mr. Garwood took Faber and me to Dr. Grant,
who has a considerable Egyptian museum; I shall spend some time in
It.

In the evening I was sprinkled with the blood of the Persian Pas-
sion Play; I went to see the anniversary commemoration of the death
of Hussein.4 I send you by this mail the Cinq Moi: cm Caire by Ga-
briel Charmes who is to go up the Nile with us. It contains a detailed
account of this remarkable performance and I have only to add to it
that I had to move back a little as they passed, to avoid contributing
inﬁdel blood to the already copious sacriﬁce. The little boy who rep-
resented Hussein did not seem to enjoy it; he was held on the horse
and he had among his gaping ornaments one very deep and ugly cut
from the inner end of one eyebrow upward. It was a hideous exhibi-
tion of fanatical barbarism—almost as bad as Heidelberg.

My right hand dinner neighbor, Mr. Graham, an elderly American
painter, went with me, and we admired the good nature and hospital-

1. George S. Batcheller, Barrister in New York, member of the Legislature and of the Judiciary Committee
of the State of New York. Judge to the International Court. November 10, 1875. and retired on No-
vember 30, 1885.

2. The mummies of Queen Mmceri and her baby. the princess Moutemhit. see G. Elliot Smith. ”The Royal
Mummies" (Catalogue du Musée du Caire). Cairo. 1912. pp. 98-101 and pl. LXXII—LXXIV.

3. G. Schweinfurth, famous German traveller and scientist (1836-1925). See his paper: “Der Blumen—
schmuck aegyptischer Mumien" in "Gartenlaube." 1884, pp. 628—630; after L. Keimer, “Georges
Schweinfurth et ses recherches sur le ﬂore pharaonique," in “Revue de l'Egypte ancienne." Paris. vol.
I. 1927. pp. 198-202.

4. Commemoration of the death of Hussein. the Prophet's grandson. slain a martyr at the battle of Kar-
bala. See E. W. Lane. "Manners and Customs of the Modern Egyptians." London. 1898. pp. 434 and
seq.

84

