[CHAPTER TWO

to see them on their return. I have met Vassallil in the street and he
says the cylinder, is on board and he hopes we shall be off in a week,
which will make only six weeks delay. Tonight it is cold and cloudy
and my thermometer is down to 6 5°; it looks almost like snow, but I
do not feel cold; I have plenty to study.

CAIRO This promises to be my last night at Shepheard’s
Sunday for the present. Everything is ready to start
Deceméer II, 1881 when the bridge opens tomorrow at two ......
The Register has come regularly. I send with this
a Tauchnitz book I have just readwith interest, Washington Irving’s
Successor: of Mahomet, and a power of attorney to you which you will
not need to use if I come back. I rather think I shall because I have
eaten plum-puddingsince and have not seen the parrot. They are having
Opera here, but I have not been. Judge Hagens is a subscriber for
Thursdays. . . . . . We have no use for a stove here; Spitta will
have to wait long before he can light a ﬁre for his feeble lungs and
throat. He seems to like the Hagens very much and Madame talks to
him like a father to make him take care of himself. Thursday I called
on her and she said it was a shame I had not been to see Mme. Wacyf.
I agreed with her but said I dared not go alone. So she put on her bon-
net and we went. Mme. Wacyf was quite lively and Nazli showed us
her picture books and inquired about Dora and Zoe and why they
did not come too? Spitta took us donkey—riding Friday to the top of
the Mokattam whence we looked down on the Citadel and the City
and the Nile far—branching to the north and over the Pyramids into
the western Desert. But what surprised me more was to see how like
a sea the green Delta, furrowed by Nile branches and canals swept
away to the northeast against a ﬂat white sand beach, often half a
mile wide, from the eastern edge of which the mountains rise, reddish
but not red; that is reserved for the Red Mountain,2 which lies at the
foot of the Mokattam, a distinct eruption as foreign to the rest as ifit
were a volcano. It is indeed the product of silicious springs, the hard-
est rock of Egypt and as such was taken for the Colossi at Thebes;
they called it statue stone.

I. Luigi Vassaiii. Italian artist and archaeologist (1820-1887), friend and collaborator of A. Mariette-
pacha. See G. Maspero. “Notice biographique de Mariette.” in "Bibliothéque Egyptologique."vol.
XVIII. Paris. 1904. pp. C—CI; A. Rhone. “Necrologie de L. Vassalli” in “Chronique de la Gazette dec
Beaux-Arts.” July. 1887.

2. Red Mountain: Gebel el-Ahmar. or Red Mountain (394 ft.). Baedeker. “Egypt." 1929. p. 123.

86

