[CHAPTER FOUR

divans and rich carpets. These last reminded me of the “Christians”
Mme. and I ﬁnd it our duty and pleasure to slaughter every day. The
boat had been ﬁtted up for a voyage to Shoobra for the Khedive’s
brother. I want to know about what boats will do, but think the later
one buys the better terms he can make. All say they are expecting a
good winter next year, but I am sure that the English will not dare to
come. I received a letter from Judge Farman saying the agent had
promised him for me a good place amidships.

Thursday I worked again in the Museum on Piankhil and the
April 17, 1884 Triumph Song of Thothmes III and did not go into

town. The Masperos went calling ......

Friday I worked a little on my packing and went into town

dpril I8, 1884 and bought a few things of Shookr Homer, one of the

Pyramid Arabs. Guy Lussac came to dine with us in

the evening; he is rather the most genial companionable man I have

found in Egypt. Pomeroy will go with me to Alexandria Sun-
day ......

Saturday Mohammed has got me a new wooden chest and I
ﬂpri! 19, 1884 have packed my antiquities all but a big basket full;
what is left has gone into baskets ever since the ﬁve

loaves and two ﬁshes. Went in town again and to the house of Mo-
hammed Effendi where Suleeman and Shookr Homer showed me
their store and I got a few more antiquities. We talked politics a
little, not disagreeing as to our British friends. The Batchellers came
to the boat in the evening to take leave. He has changed in two
things since last year; he talks very respectfully of Farman and quite
otherwise of Pomeroy; the house does not seem to have been big
enough for them both. Batcheller is President of the Court this year,
but is going home on six months’ leave to try to get into the Supreme
Court or into Congress, they say. Last year he accused F arman of
selling false antiquities to Americans; this year he sends to him to get
tickets for his wife and Kaby by the little French boat. Last year he
was loud against Pomeroy’s family; this year Pomeroy has a light

 

x. The Piankhi stele—see J. H. Breasted. “Ancient Record.” Chicago. 1906. vol. IV. pp. 406 -444.

312

