DECEMBER 1880 T0 APRIL 1881]

ments of a royal papyrus and the palette of a scribe who on it prays
Thoth to give him “skill in writing and ability in the sacred lan-
guage” (Divine W'ord). I told him what our English clergyman Dean
Butcher had told me about the Egyptologist Goodwin,1 and he said
he had learned more from the two hours he once spent with him
than in any other two hours of his life. He said Birch2 guessed from
the determinatives, while Goodwin read the words—two kinds of
translation.

Sunday Yesterday morning I went out to look for Mr.
yanuary 9, 1881 Maspero and met him in the street. He arrived
the day before and is at M. de Rochemonteix’s.3

He told me how astonished he was at finding himself here, that there
were sent him last summer paper stamps from the inside of a
Sakkarah pyramid which he supposed the pyramid of Pepi (it isn’t);
that he should have a house of his own in four or ﬁve days and place
for me when I came back from Luxor. I objected that I could not
afford to accept such hospitality, but he said it was a part of his
oﬂicial duty to entertain Egyptologists, foreign as well as French. He
was beginning his round of oﬂicial visits, had seen Mariette and
thought he might live twelve or fourteen months, much longer, he
said, than Brugsch expected. Now whatever may be Brugsch’s ex-
pectations, he has always spoken to me of Mariette in the most sym-
pathizing way and he does all for him that Mariette will let him do.

At noon Mr. Young and I started a-donkey-back for the pyramids
of Gizeh and went into the King’s and the Queen’s chamber. It was
much less difficult with four men apiece than I had anticipated. The
heat was less oppressive, the air not bad and the Bedaweens quiet
and friendly. The only thing that was oppressive was the conscious-
ness of the stupendous mass of the covering stones, the how they
ever got there and the feeling that you are in the centre of the life-
work of so many myriads of men. Then we went to see some tombs
we had not seen before, specially that of the Palm-tree beams and

1. Charles W. Goodwin, English Egyptologist (1817—1878); see \Varren R. Dawson. ”Charles Wycliffe
Goodwin, a Pioneer of Egyptology." London. 1933.

2. Samuel Birch. English Egyptologist (1813—1885) See ”Biographical Notices of Dr. Samuel Birch from
the British and Foreign Press” . . . with an Introduction by Walter De Gray Birch. London. 1886.

3. Maxence dc Chalvet. Marquis de Rochemonteix. French Egyptologist (1849—1891). See G. Maspero,
"Notice sur la vie de M. de Rochemonteix." in the “Bibliothéque Egyptologique." vol. III. Paris.
1894, pp. Xl-XXXIX.

21

T1 . l il’ J l .I' x r T“ l :I T l

