DECEMBER'ISBO T0 APRIL 1881]

with the faces of old friends; this time with the many things to be
learned from almost every stone.

The donkey boy Ameen Hassan, with a white Mecca donkey,
attended me. He told me that he was twenty-three and was married
ten months ago to a bride of sixteen; that he gave twelve pounds for
his wife but her mother spent much more on her; that the wedding
festivities cost him twenty Napoleons more and he had to sell his
donkey to get married. He hopes his baby will be a boy like him, but
says his wife hopes it will be a girl like her.

In the afternoon to the Tombs of the Khalifs, which are fast going
to decay. The money all goes to the creditors now and tombs,
mosques and palaces may go to decay. In Sultan Berkook’s we found
still some students among the beautiful ruins and Kait Bey’s was
actually being repaired, one little girl carrying the mortar. My
cavilling spirit measured the two impressions of Mohammed’s foot
and gloated to ﬁnd that the imprint on the West side of the mauso-
leum was twelve inches long while that on the East side was but
eleven. But faith with truer wisdom responded that the latter was
made before his foot was fully grown. So through the great cemetery,
past and present, to the Citadel where we saw as yesterday the Sun—
set behind the pyramids. The glory of the sky as day departs into the
desert, leaving the city, which lies spread out at one’s feet, in dusty
gloom, is more than I can tell. It was so great yesterday that we went
again to-day and want to go to—morrow and mount the minaret to
see It.

Wednesday Yesterday was another red letter day. Colonel

7anuary 5, 1881 McKaye, Mr. 8t Mrs. Young and I went down to

Bedreshayn at eight—thirty taking donkeys, thence

across the site of Memphis to Sakkarah. At Memphis the Statue of

Ramses was mostly under water but there was the Temple of Ptah,

only a row of black stones, but with precious inscriptions for geog-
raphy. At the guard’s house I saw fragments of:

A Black Statue of Seti I, beloved of Tum, Lord of the Twin Lands
of On (Heliopolis); two Columns of Ramses II; Granite Statue;
Kneeling Statue bare to navel under which is belt with inscription
King Kha-Kheper—ra (Usertesen II of the Twelfth Dynasty) who
maketh festal the Temple of Ptah-Sokar; Calcareous squatting

I5

“‘ J l l \El‘ I _.' ‘ar ‘ 5'. ll l 91 44,3. l

