[CHAPTER FOUR

BOULAK, CAIRO We are of? today to Bedresheyn. Yesterday
Sunday afternoon I went to the Bazars. In the Persian,
February 10, 1884 Asadallah had no longer the dozen coffee-cup
holders which Mrs. Moulton wanted me to go as

high as two hundred dollars for; he said the Sitt did not come last
year and he had sold them, one and two at a time, till he had but one
left. I replaced the Koofeeyeh by a better and larger, got yellow Mex
for myself and red for Madame, submitted myself to a bearded
Italian Delilah, the results of which I send you in another envelope,
called on Mme. Batcheller, who looks very well after her cholera, and
got many little things. The Judge will take his family home the mid-
dle of June and himself come back in December, if he does not ﬁnd
something better there. He spoke strongly of the article in the
Borpizore Egyptien, which I send you; he said if the paper were sup-
pressed for it, as they say it will be, the owner would have a good
case for heavy damages. I do not see that there is any considerable
feeling among the people over the defeat of Baker.1 When a man is
taken for a soldier, they wail for him as dead; you remember how I
found it last year at Sioot. There even the wives are expected to take
another husband. And there is a feeling in favor of the Mahdi; not
active, but that his success is the success of true believers against

half-inﬁdels.

MASPERo’s STEAMER Sunday we passed through the bridge took
BIBEH the dahabeeyeh Hope in tow and in three
T uesday hours were at Bedresheyn. The Hope is the
February 12, 1884 boat Mr. and Mrs. Fiske had and after them
Prince Heinrich and last year Friedrich Karl,
the Red Prince. It has two common rooms, two double and three
single bed rooms and a bath. Water ﬂows, and the furniture is nice
and good. An iron boat. Mr. Fiske paid twenty-six hundred dollars
for the use of her for four months. Guy Lussac had borrowed her for
the new French Consul-general Barrére to sleep in with his friend.
The reis whose name is Mohammed remembered that I had come on
board at Luxor three years ago.

 

I. Defeat of Baker. See Earl Cromer. loc. cit... vol. I. p. 404: ”The Egyptian troops threw down their arms
and ran. carrying away the black troops with them. and allowing themselves to be killed without the
slightest resistance."

262

