NOVEMBER I888 TO JULY 1889]

February 25, 1889 To Karnak. . . . . . Sayce arrived; he has

been bitten by a snake ﬁve miles below Assuan.

Fearuary 26, 1889 Saw Sayce. He was bitten on the outer ankle-

joint by a horned snake a foot long. Being close
by the boat he cauterized it at once and is now suffering from the
burn‘. Caution not to wear slippers in the ﬁelds at this season; it be-
gins to be warm near Assuan. Dined with the Lefevres, after which
their crew had a fantaiseeyeh and male dancing.

February 27, 1889 To Medeenet Haboo where the Reis Tanyos

formerly of Maspero’s steamer, with thirty or
forty men was clearing the ﬁrst Court. Most interesting were four
prostrate Caryatides with heads not much injured. We lunched in the
pavilion but did not see the Hudhud; perhaps somebody has shot her.
One of the Keepers showed me the mouth of the well; he said Mari-
ette opened it; four men abreast may walk down ﬁfty or sixty steps
to the water which is as sweet as sugar. Back by the Ramesseum
where the Judge was particularly impressed by the big statue. The
Dikes and Mr. Sprague said to have a letter to me, were in in the
evening.

February 28, 1889 Called on David Dudley Field and brought him

and his party to tea. He seems bright as of yore
and to be enjoying his trip like a boy. I had found the Medeenet
Haboo trip hot and fatiguing; he made it the same day cheerily. His
dahabeeyeh, the Rhoda, taking ﬁfteen days to Rodah, he had
boarded the Ramses for the upper part of the voyage. Eighty—four
years old and going to Jerusalem. Many other visitors this day, but
why should I record them; are they not all in the Journal of Lottie?
Grébauts, Insingers, Gardners, Blisses, Edwards, and stin M.
Gayetz, and pugnacious Dr. Boase. Great news also for Luxor. Cook
is ﬁxing up the Karnak Hotel with ﬁfteen hundred pounds and has

I. A. H. Sayce. “Reminiscences.” London. 1923. p. 261: "telling the sailors what had happened. I seized
the (red-hot) tongs and burnt the wound down to the bone. operating twice myself and getting the cook
to do it a third time."

2. A. H. Sayce. ”Reminiscences." London. 1923. p. 268: “At Luxor we found Gayet. . . . One very hot
day he dropped in to tea on the ‘Seven Hathors.’ wearing a pair of pale lavender kid gloves. Mrs. Blash-
field asked him if he would not take them off as the afternoon was so hot; to which he replied. "J'aime
conserver mes habitudes."

521

