FEBRUARY 1884. TO MAY 1884]

somebody rebuilt Brindisi; the old church with its jaunty St. Theo-
dore and an inscription telling how it was a temple of the Sun and
Moon till St. Luke broke its idols; and the archbishop’s palace; and
the Roman castle where are now many prisoners, brigands from
Naples, I was told; for all the people here are good. It wasn’t school
time but a teacher told me that there were a hundred boys in the
primary and thirty-ﬁve in the upper school and sixty girls in another
primary and that there were no priests’ or nuns’ schools. I looked in
at many open doors and saw great beds, family beds for four or ﬁve
or more; many looms, at one a woman weaving toweling for four
cents a yard and she told me she did from three to ﬁve yards a day,
according. There were many kinds of sewing-machines and many
women and few men. This may be explained by such facts as that the
sailors on this ship, these bold British tars who are the pride and the
defence of England, are all Italians. Dr. Koch tells me that in the
steamer in which he went to Calcutta they were all Hindoos. I came
back to the boat hungry and read my papers. The massacre of the
garrison of Shendy, the recall of Baring, not to return, the indigna-
tion of Gordon at his abandonment by the British government, our
good luck in escaping quarantine when it had already been imposed
by Spain and Greece; these were nothing to Dr. Koch; he was inter-
ested only in the Berlin telegram which told of the alarming condi—
tion of the Emperor and his perpetual drowsiness. He says they can-
not spare the Emperor for years yet; his personal authority is so
great with the kings of Bavaria, Saxony and Wiirtenburg, and, above
all, the guarantee of peace with Russia hangs upon the thread of his
life. At lunch talking with the English doctor about the advance of
Russia in Asia I suggested that it might be of no importance to Eng-
land; before Russia could reach India, the Hindoos might free them-
selves. He didn’t seem comforted by that solution. Yesterday the
lady who sits on the Captain’s right now that Sir Evelyn has gone,
Mrs. Hopkins, seeing Mark Twain’s story of the White Elephant,
supposed it must be something quite recent, because it was about the
White Elephant. She amused me half an hour by her talk with a
young man, while I was dozing, but that is all I remember.

317

