[CHAPTER THREE

To-day I donkeyed out to the Pyramids and have bought a lot of
old stones,and a very graceful goblet with lotus leaves sculptured,not
painted, on it. It is incomplete but complete enough to give the
whole form and design and may be copied. Dr. Grant has one
painted like mine at home, except that his has birds and a nest in the
papyrus stalks. The three, Aly Gabree tells me, were found in one
tomb together. I lunched with Mr. and Mrs. Peake who came with
Mr. and Mrs. Garwood at the Museum, and rode home with Mr.
Levey. I took them on the way back to see the Mamaum/z, a plan
and description of which I sent you, that Mrs. Levey and Corinne
might tell you about it. They would like to leave Corinne in Egypt
three months if it were convenient. And so Gladstone is ordered to
follow Louis Blancl to Cannes and—further.

CAIRO Yesterday I guided the Leveys to the Museum;

Monday they have minds rather active than passive and

yanuary 15, 1883 so missed many important things by inquiring
about unimportant.

Sheikh Ibrahim of the Pyramid guardians told me that the two
head sheikhs of their village, had been beaten on the soles of the feet
so that they could not stand—about seventy blows. For a week I had
known they were in prison because they maintained the rights of
their people as Bedaween to immunity from forced labor, now for the
ﬁrst time demanded of them. Old Ismaeen told me about it in his
house Saturday. I told Hooker who begged me not to tell any body
else, that he might have it exclusively for the [Morning Post. In the
afternoon Pomeroy came for me and we found Maspero and spent
an hour with him.

Batcheller called; his wife and daughter have come. He says the
pressure of the money-lenders to get in their money is increasing; his
share of judgments to write last week was thirty—ﬁve. Judge Hagens
is indeed well out of it. In the evening I went to the French School to
see Lefébure. The Masperos think Mme. Lefébure bourgeoise and do
not seek her society. She is good-looking and has a three or four-year

 

1. Louis Blanc. French politician and historian (181 1—1882) died at Cannes on the 6th of December, 1882.

190

