[CHAPTER FIVE

thirty-eight bas-reliefs which adorn them. Upon this I have noted in
color the reference to such as have been printed, green for Lepsius,
red for Champollion and blue for Rosellini. And the two little maps
look well; I will make more of them, and large.

Then we came on to El Kab and tied up for the night. I went out
under the great sycamore and found Ahamed’s mother doubled up
with rheumatism so that she could not stand straight. He ran away
and is not a soldier but dare not come home lest he be taken. There
are a lot of Nubians here; they come to buy dourra to eat. Some
bright black girls with them seem to be awaiting a purchaser. The big
men about here take them for servants for their wives. They are
happy to improve their condition and the bringer receives a reward.

Wednesday We all went over to the Rock Tombs; Maspero

Feéruary 10, 1886 and Bouriant to take paper stamps of Pa Heri’s;

Insinger and Toda to photograph that and

Stau’s and Renni’s; Grébaut and his sister to fuss and take no photo-

graphs, Morel to see and I to generalize and make a plan. Madame
amused herself, as usual, on board.

Thursday After the rest returned yesterday I went to the
Feéruary II, 1886 village, Hillall (the New Moon, or the Crescent
City) and there, on stones taken to make the
doors of the mosque, found a story about Hathor, or perhaps Nek-
hebet, and the cartouche of Ptolemy Alexander? I mentioned this to
Maspero, who said he knew it; Champollion said so. Now I have with
me Champollion’s Letters and notices both and they have no men-
tion of this king.

To—day Grébaut has been up and stamped the much published
inscription of Pen-Nekhebet3; I made two panoramas, one general
and the other of the Rock Tombs taken from the corners of the
Great Wall. On the latter I have given the names of the proprietors
of the tombs; it will go well with my plan. And now after breakfast,
we are on our way to Edfoo. Aground. And, after a minute, off again,

1. El Hilla—the site of the ancient Contra-Latopolis, see Baedeker. “Egypt." 1929, p. 357.

2. Ptolemy XI. Alexander I.

3. For the biographical inscription of Ahmose pen-nekhbet, see J. H. Breasted. “Ancient Records of Egypt.’ '
Chicago. 1906. vol. II. pp. 9, et seq.

364

