[CHAPTER THREE

French Government will publish it in colors, a long and costly labor
but one which will make a show and be a credit to the school. M.
Lefébure brought up all that was necessary to live in a tomb and
established himself in that of Ramses IV, but has found it too cold at
night and goes around the mountain to sleep in the white house of
Abd er Rasool at Sheikh Abd el Gurnah. However, we put our break—
fasts together and ate of}. a table with knives and forks and pewter
plates. I had not tasted beef since Shepheard’s, so the beef-steak and
fried potatoes which Ibraheem served did not go badly, though both
perhaps needed the sharp desert air and the fatigue of two hours’ ride
and the work to make them palatable. Old Kaleefeh had met me
and took me on his donkey. He did not go to the oasis on account of
the war, but is going a month later when the nights on the desert will
be warmer. I should like very much to go with him but M. Maspero
thinks it better not this year. And indeed I hear that the wonderful
security of life and property all over Egypt was somewhat weakened
during the war, that strong men took their chance to be rid of their
enemies and Kaleefeh, who goes with ﬁve men, will have ﬁve guns
and powder and ball in them, ready to admonish the wicked. I noted
two and a half corridors of the Tomb of Ramses VI and then looked
at the F renchmen’s work in Seti’s. They are getting on well. I was
glad to ﬁnd in a room which Champollion passes by in his description
of the Tomb, an hour of the Book of the Night-world of which I had
but one copy and that the bad one on the sarcophagus of Ramses III
in the Louvre. My little Reis Abderrahman was waiting for us when
we reached the river. He was ﬂoating about with our pilot—the Reis

Mohammed and Mohammed Shayn.

We went to dine with John Cook who is up on the biggest boat
with thirty-six passengers and from there I went over to Aly Moo-
rad’s, who entertained with a fantaiseeyeh eleven Americans just
arrived by the Postal Boat at the Luxor Hotel, Professor Standish of
the Lombard University, Galesburg, Illinois, and his party. They
were strongly marked western types and it was interesting to see how
intently they followed the ﬂuttering of muscles and the swaying of
viscera.

210

