OCTOBER I881 T0 APRIL 1882]

to the base of the mountain whereon these steles, some fellows hailed
us and would not be put off, that we should not visit their work. They
were digging for bones for the Howaga Yussuf, a Faransawy1 whose
dahabeeyeh was at the river side and who had gone across the Nile
to the railway station. Ten of them had got out this great pile of
bones ten feet square, with ram’s horns, and skulls and horns of oxen
which might be hung as trophies in a Paris antechamber, and a paw
of a jackal with the yellow hair on; and some stones which I must ex-
amine and tell them about. So I divided them into three piles:

I . Four fragments of a stele inscribed on both sides, one with part
of a ﬁgure: the Unitarian Princesses.

2. Some fragments of a statue of a King Colossal: one, the head
and crown, has on the back the top of an obelisk with the beginning
of his cartouche.

3. Fragments of the Unitarian Queen. Her pretty feet on sandals,
her hip and abdomen, her hands supporting a table of offerings on the
edges of which are her and her husband’s cartouches and a bit of leg.
The King also is upholding with mighty hands a table on which
offerings are sculptured. Then I went to the rock steles and placed
them on my map and according to my index, wherein Lepsius partly
copies two of the four and then after a brief squabble with the bone-
diggers, most of whom had accompanied me to the mountain, I had
the stones brought to the steamer at a total cost, purchase and
freight, of one dollar and twenty cents. I was ready to rest, although
the weather for a few days has been very comfortable and not too
warm.

Thursday We got up at Dayr e1 Nakhleh (Palm Convent)2or
March 30, 1882 rather a mile farther down, as we found to our cost
when we came to pass over the sandy space twice.

The Captain sent to the village for donkeys; there were none. Mas-
pero said we would wait then till there were; it would be pleasant to
start at sunrise to-morrow morning for our Tombs. Then the don-
keys, which had been behind a sand hill, appeared. Then Mahommed

the cook said there were only two chickens left in the way of provi-

 

I. F aransawy: Arabic way of pronouncing “francais.” Howaga Yussuf is the nickname given by the Arabs
to H. Dulac.
2. Murray. "Egypt," 1880. p. 415.

159

