DECEMBER 1882 T0 APRIL 1883]

of Ramses VI, breakfasted with Lefébure and Bourgoin and worked
till ﬁve o’clock which was a little too late. But my Reis Abderrah-
man was on the Island looking for my return and I got to the steamer
before seven.

KARNAK I went with Vassalli to see if the corrections of
Sunday his work which the Russian Egyptologist Go-
February 11, 1883 lenischeﬂr1 has just published in the Zeitsc/zrz'ft
were right. It is a list of countries subjugated by
Thothmes III which by a lucky chance Vassalli discovered, but in
regard to which Mariette did not mention his name. He told me he
had copied it, Mariette had revised the copy; then he had gone over
it again and then Mariette had revised it again. But we found that
the multiple corrections of Golenischeff were right in the main, while
there were perhaps as many more faults he had not corrected and
sometimes he had made only a part of the correction required in a
name. Out of twenty corrections we veriﬁed, seven were wrongly or
incompletely done. So Vassalli was soothed though he cannot under-
stand how he made so many mistakes. He is seventy, was an Italian
painter, except when Garibaldi was ﬁghting, then always with him.
Now he likes to take his macaroni quietly.

This afternoon Old Kaleefeh took me into Ismaeen’s house and
showed me a statue, very rude, of the Noble Governor Keeper of the
Seal, Privy Councillor, Grand Warden of Thebes, Master Prophet
Antefaa. The Antefaas were kings in the Eleventh Dynasty. One is
represented on a famous stele with his pack of four hounds of differ—
ent breeds. This was in front of his tomb and is mentioned in a papy—
rus which is the legal record of the prosecution of some robbers of
royal tombs. This old fellow in his sandstone looks stupid enough to
have been related to royalty even though forty-ﬁve hundred years
ago. He insisted that he had paid eight dollars for it and that it came
from Edfoo. But it certainly was carried there from Gurnah, within a
mile of Kaleefeh’s house. This evening Piehl has lost two games of
chess out of the three, he thinks through my remarks. Mme. and the
rest have done their dominoes. . . . . . A lot of earthenware frag-

I. W. Golenischeﬂ’. “Offener Brief an Herrn Professor H. Brugsch" in ”Zeitschrift {ﬁr iigyptische Sprache
und Altertumskunde." vol. XX. 1882. pp. 145-148 with pl. V and VI. The list of countries were pub-
lished by A. Mariette. “Karnak. Etude topographique et archéologique." Leipzig. 1875. pl. XVII-
XXVI.

213

