NOVEMBER 1885 TO MAY 1886]

apartment, thinks so too. The Judge claimed that she spoke Arabic
well; and he knew how to claim for her. I have not heard of George
Pomeroy in Egypt.

Toda has a letter to-day calling him to the Ministry by the ﬁrst of
April. Castelar, his old professor and aforetime chief-editor, has some
inﬂuence now and he thinks promotion is in store for him. So he will
not go to the Holy Land, and will spend some time with his mother,
who is alone at Rens, before he goes to Madrid.

There is good news from the Boulevard St. Germain,1 stories of one
boy’s growth, so many grammes in so many days, and of the other’s
brightness, how M. Morel calling laid his cane on the table and while
talking with Mme. the little fellow took it up and said, “C’est la
canne de M. Morel,” and then putting it back, “C’est la table de
Papa.”

And we are tied up in Erment.

Evening We have made the usual visit to the Sugary for the beneﬁt

of the newcomers, have found Mme. Bouillon in a distant
caneﬁeld to which we went by rail, have seen the cutting and gather-
ing of the cane at and after sunset, behind trees and mountains and
now are come back by another railway journey to the steamer and to
dinner. Kamoory’s son who came up with us to divide a ﬁnd of his,
placed in charge of M. Bouillon here, has had no chance and may not
have as we start early tomorrow.

To ESNEH Kamoory’s son last night, talking about woods,

Tuesday told me that there were mummy cases of sont, atl

and gemmayz, but not of lebbekh,2 and that in the

Roman days they sometimes used the doom palm. The large outside

cases, generally painted black, which enclose the ﬁnest mummies are
of imported wood.

At Esneh we waited but two hours for coaling. I had only time to
map the north and south inner walls of the pronaos and note the
emperor and his offering to what gods or goddesses in each of the

I. The home of the Masperos in Paris.

2. Sont acacia; atl - tamarisk; gemmayz = sycamore; for lebbekh, see G. Schweinfurth, “Sur la ﬂore
des anciens jardins arabes d'Egypte” in "Bulletin de l'Institut égyptien," vol. VIII. Cairo. 1888, pp.
320-321.

363

