DECEMBER 1882 TO APRIL I883]

morning to show the anteekeh he will give Lady Dufferin and to try
to get a written permit to dig. He didn’t. M. Charmes is exercised on
Egyptian architecture. One Perrot,l who has been doing an illustrated
Egypt with large sale, says that the bulbed pillar is the exception,
that is bulbed at bottom like the papyrus from which the Egyptian
pillar is evolved. Now Charmes ﬁnds that all Egyptian pillars with-
out exception down to the Greek times are bulbed. Only under the
Ptolemies is the ideal of the papyrus lost. The trouble is that Perrot
takes the drawings of other Frenchmen who have drawn columns of
which the lower part was covered ...... Charmes dug down
in the Hypostile Hall to-day to be sure there.

Evening I went to Karnak and worked an hour; had better not, but
there were a few things to do to ﬁnish for this year. And I
did not ﬁnish.

DUFFERIN COME Coming back his Lordship’s steamer overtook me

at Aly’s and Aly got oﬂ" nine shots in his Lord-
ship’s honor. It came alongside of ours and this evening while at din-
ner all the opera glasses on our boat were in requisition except mine.
Maspero, anxious as he was to get away, has gone with Charmes to
be introduced to his Grace, who I hope will not receive him as Prince
Frederic Charles did, standing, so as to make the visit short. All the
good horses near here had been gathered for a horse fantaiseeyeh and
a new path made by forced labor from the landing to Mustapha’s
house. You will see in the English papers that Dufferin is trying to
abolish this forced labor. My donkey-boy to-day, a new one (for all
the old ones were agog for the show) explained to me how the fella-
heen hated the English who came and beat them and were taking all
their money away, and I relieved his mind somewhat by telling him
how we had beaten them in two wars so that they dared not ﬁght us.

LUXOR ABLAZE Maspero and Charmes came back in ten minutes or

less and the Duf’ferins large and little streamed or?
behind a red bengal light to Mustapha’s where there is fantaiseeyeh.
Maspero took off his coat with expression of relief, much as a miner

 

I. Georges Perrot et Charles C hipiez, "Histoire de I'Art clans l'Antiquité." vol. I. “L’Egypte.” Paris. I 882.

237

