NOVEMBER 1887 TO MAY 1888]

four hours copying and comparing those texts which the limestone
seeker threatens most. Much blasting has been done since last year,
but I think, no further texts destroyed. All in one tomb are gone. An-
other huge tomb has top and sides taken off, but luckily the texts are
on the back wall.

DISHNEH It is a long time since I have written; we were in
y‘amzary 15, I888 Sioot, had visited the tombs and found much
damage done since last year and I had copied
what seemed most in danger; we had seen the Missionaries, the long
faced young Hogg and his pleasant faced sister and the American
Giffen who deplored that their young men who went into the Gov—
ernment service, led astray by high salaries, had no Sabbath day. We
left Aboo Shanab waiting for some medicine from his Cairo Dutch
Doctor and we came on the seventh of January, to Raaineh1 where in
the morning a guardian of the night told me of a tomb in the moun-
tain which had in it ﬁgures of eyes and noses and mouths and birds.
So when we go back I hope to see some hieroglyphics. It was behind a
Canal and they were not sure that it was dry yet; it would be after a
little.

At Sioot we had received a note from M. F rénay the Miller-Consul
at Ekhmeem, saying he would be at Tahtah till the tenth and asking
us to let him know when we would come. The rais of his dahabeeyeh
was at the river, three miles from Tahtah, looking out for us and as
there was a good wind, I sent him a little note and we went on, the
wind so good that we reach Ekhmeem the night of the eighth of
January, leaving our rais at Soohag to see his young second wife
and a two-months’ baby, and to make merry thereover.

7anuary 9 I saw Sidrak the Copt from whom I bought Min-mes

last year. He told me the police had eight days before
seized all his anteekeh, two hundredpounds worth, and they were
sealed up and carried to the Mudereeyeh at Soohag. So he had
only for me a little bronze saw-knife, a ﬂat three-handled pot and a
nicely painted Horus on a sledge. The postal boat brought down the

 

I. Raaineh. see Murray. “Egypt." 1880. p. 426; rather Rayaneh or El-Hammamiya of Baedeker. “Egypt.”
1929. pp. 237—238. See letter of December 2. 1888.

455

