[CHAPTER TWO

seen. I made a plan of it and noted some of the scenes. Then the rest
having ﬁnished Coptos I went back to the forum and copied the altar
or reposoir; one side unluckily is hidden. It will probably be broken
up to be sold in fragments. It was very dusty work. On the way back
to the boat I found a stone near the Canal Bridge with this only: “I
grant to Thee that thine eyes shall see in the Twin Lands like the
arrowy rays of the Sun and Moon” and we slept off Keneh.

Sunday Aly Moorad had accompanied us to Keneh and I
Marc/z 19, 1882 went in the morning to see the town and him. After
looking at the Mudireeyeh where the Wekeel wel—
comed me I found him in the Market, or as the English call it, the
Bazaar, and we looked at things and then went to see his friend the
English Consul Hassaneyn, our Consul in Keneh being a Copt and
consequently not a friend of Aly Moorad. we had just salaamed and
coffeed and I was examining some pretty things Said had drummed
up, when word came from the boat that the Princes were on a sand-
bank, four hours down the river, and we were going to their rescue.
So Hassaneyn and Aly and I went to the steamer, where were the
Mudeer and more, and after waiting an hour to get up steam (for
the haste with which they ran after me was hotter than the water in
the boiler) at eleven A. M. we started forth and people put on their
black coats. The Mudeer spent two hours reading, mostly aloud, the
poetry in De Sacy’s C/zrestomatlzie A'raée. At three o’clock when
within ten minutes of their R. H’s sandbank we met the Postal
Steamer and were motioned back; they had got off and gone on their
Royal Highness’ way rejoicing. So we turned and telegraphed and
shall get to Keneh tonight if we dare run till ten o’clock.

The Mudeer and his interpreter, an Arab who learned with sixty
others to speak French much better than I do, in the School of
Rifaat Bey in Cairo forty years ago, dined with us. Mme. Maspero
asked him some questions and he looked at her from time to time
side—long as if he thought he oughtn’t to. Toward the end he compli—
mented her on the good sense of her questions-min effect, for not be-
ing silly. It was funny. After dinner Maspero showed him a lot of
photographs of Italy; we arrived all right and are to dine with him
tomorrow.

150

