NOVEMBER 1885 TO MAY 1886]

Sunday Kamoory’s son gave me yesterday in the Temple
Fearuary 21, 1886 a copper ring the old man had made for me,
with the cartouche of Thothmes III. Old Mus-
tapha is back again, but his house has lost its old-time pleasantness;
it will soon be gone and seems to know it. I took the little girl to see
the mummies on the boat and Maspero gave her an old hairpin. She
and her Aunt are going with John Cook, with whom they have been
to Assuan, in the morning, Cairo-wards. Mr. Eaton, with whom Mr.
Schoﬁeld and I sat at table some days in Bradford last August, intro-
duced me to his wife and daughter—then in Europe—pleasant folks.
He has just come from the Russian Caucasus oilﬁelds, where one well
gave sixty thousand barrels the ﬁrst day. He and the daughter are
handsome; the mother might be without her wig. He knows Mr.
Laywell.

Monday Kamoory’s son and Aboo Gamb have divided
February 22, 1886 their spoils with Maspero; there was nothing in
their part I cared for; Toda bought some things
for the Museum of his native town, Rens. Maspero is writing at this
table, too, and we stop to discuss the Grébauts; the verdict is that
they are a failure as far as the object of inviting them is concerned.
He and I thought it a great advantage to have women on board, but
these do not produce the effect; as far as our social life goes, we might
as well have men only. In the evening I brought the Coxes over to see
Maspero and went with them to the new American dahabeeyeh,
where there are young Mr. and Mrs. Armour of Chicago and a Miss
Cox, who knows Philo.

Tuesday Maspero went to the Tombs of the Kings with
February 23, 1886 the Consular Party and a high west wind came
up raising such a storm of dust that for some

time we could not see across the river. Mohammed Mohassib showed
me a papyrus, probably a letter, as it was sealed, for which he said
Ibraheem had paid ﬁfty dollars. I told him it was not worth half
that, but he hopes to sell it to somebody who does not know its value.
Abd-el-Megeed has sold the two little incomplete Demotic papyri for
which I would not even mention a price to him, at one hundred dol-

37I

