DECEMBER 1882 TO APRIL I883]

not been on the east side of the river since the day we ﬁrst came to
Luxor. Word has come that the Mudeer has been ordered from
Cairo to demolish the houses in the Temple at once.

FIFTY YEARS OLD The ﬁrst half of my century is ended this after-
Saturday noon. And I do not feel any older. Though a
Marc}: [7, 1883 grain of sand in my left eye Thursday and a
dusty day’s work yesterday have made me rest
from trying to work to-day. I have only read newspapers and played
guide to two elderly British misses, who have turned their half cen-
tury, in the Luxor Temple; they came with a letter from Amelia B.
Edwards1 to Maspero.They study and draw and have shown me some
very good false antiquities they have bought. I am going over to Kar-
nak by and by when it shall be a little cooler. I have a letter from
F arman who tells me Victor gave him a package for me, and from
W'iedemann who says he has got on well with his lessons at Bonn this
winter and his doctor says his health is quite reestablished. .
Work on the demolition of the houses in the Luxor Temple began to-
day; it is a little more than two years since I recommended it as the

ﬁrst thing to be done here. The mills of Egypt grind slowly.

Sunday The grain of sand I got in my left eye Thursday
March 18, 1883 afternoon at Karnak cut it so that my Friday’s
work in the Tombs of the Kings made it sore and

yesterday and to-day I am resting. It is the ﬁrst time for many years
that my eyes have not been able and it bothers me very much. I know
not what to do. So I spent the morning with young Todros and
bought of him some royal scarabs, among them one of Si-Ptah, which
seems quite rare as neither Maspero nor Vassilli had ever seen one.
I showed the Temple of Luxor to Piehl and set him at work on the
important things. The work of demolition is so far away as to make
no dust in the birthplace beside the sanctuary. For this temple is in
so far different from all others that its birthplace is not a little temple
apart but a room in the large temple. There is a tableau which paral-

I. Amelia Ann Blandford Edwards. English author and Egyptologist (1831-1892); “in 1882 was largely
instrumental in founding the Egypt Exploration Fund. of which she became joint honorary secretary
with Reginald Stuart Poole. . . . She bequeathed her valuable collection of Egyptian antiquities to
University College, London. together with a sum to found a chair of Egyptology." Encyclopaedia
Britannica. See "Obituary.” by Reginald Stuart Poole. in “The Academy." April 23. 1892.

235

