NOVEMBER 1886 TO APRIL 1887]

Mr. Cook invited me to go up Tuesday to Sakkara in the ﬁrst Cook
boat. I have two reasons for going. Miss Gorst asked me and I
wanted to get from Cook an order to take coal from his depots along
the Nile. The old Reis Mustapha, who took us into the Serapeum
and the Pyramid of Unas, seemed very glad to see me and asked
about the Masperos with affection. A German girl has come quite
near to me. Her mother and sister tell me she coughed terribly when
they left home in Leipzig, where they know the Wiedemanns.
..... I have encouraged them to take a dahabeeyeh and go up
with us. They will be pleasant to see on the voyage. For they have
read good books and know pictures, especially Italian, and think well
and speak good English.

Mr. Insinger came over to breakfast with me and we spent the
afternoon in choosing twenty dollars worth of hardware and tools,
among them an American hatchet. I think such things are cheaper
here then in Fall River, for instance brass handles like those on the
drawers of Isaac’s dining-room I got for three dollars the dozen pair.

The German Girls have given me afternoon tea and we have built
dahabeeyeh voyages in the air. To-day I saw Asadallah of whom I
bought Dora’s turquoise, and all my old acquaintances in the Ba-
zaar. He has a big new shop ﬁlled with very costly things.

Arminius has his money for the boat after waiting nine days to get
the necessary papers and tomorrow they land in Alexandria.

CAIRO They arrived Wednesday after a bad voyage
Monday and ever since Lottie and I have been running
Deceméer I 3, 1886 about buying the things for housekeeping. You
may get almost everything here, but you have to

bargain which takes time.

They are all very much pleased with the boat and instead of want-
ing to wait and see the splendors of Cairo are anxious to be off up the
river. There are yet carpenters and plumbers and painters at work,
but Victor says that it seems like home. Lottie is already speaking of
the things she will put over to do next year and so her occupation in
Egypt which was to be for this winter only, seems already growing to
be like the English. We go out mostly afternoons to the boat and see
the sunset there, which is gorgeous.

413

