OCTOBER 1881 TO APRIL 1882]

Tuesday We have passed Esneh and shall arrive about
February 7, I882 eleven. There is really a little north wind and
our motion, accelerated by the current, alto—
gether about eleven miles an hour, makes the sailors’ little monkey
cold. He packs his hands and feet together and looks back and forth
and at everybody, and reminds you of that hero in the Niebelungen
Lied who was called he of the “rapid glances” “Schwarden Blick-
ens.” Then the sailors tell how he ran away and was gone three days
in the village to the south and went into all the houses and fright-
ened the women who thought him an afreet, and ate up all their nice
things. Indeed they say that he is Khanzeer keteer, which may be
translated “trés porc." But he is funny and they all give him the tid-
bits. In two houses into which I went yesterday, plates and bowls
were hung around the walls along with twin fruits of the doom—palm
and straw shields and Kohl—holders, ornamented with shells, from
the Soudan. Mustapha’s bride had made herself a doll, which was
much like the rag dolls except that the head was a mere prolongation
of the neck, and the eyes, nose and mouth were stitches of black
thread. Mustapha invited me to stay all night and his mother and
wife would be glad to see the ladies.

Everybody seems glad to be going back to Luxor except the
Reis Mohammed who counted on the Feast of the Moolidl to-day
where there was to be a grand fantaiseeyeh including the throwing of
the jerreed.

LUXOR I have yours of the twenty-ﬁfth and twenty-seventh Janu-
Evening ary enclosing letters from Dora and Linnie.

Dora need not be afraid I shall tire of reading her news-
letters. I was very glad to hear all about the frowzy froufrou and the
Société Américaine ball and the De Horrack2 dinner. De Horrack al-
ways looks as if he needed a day’s shooting. I went over to the tele-

I. Probably the Moolid en-Nebee. the festival of the Birth of the Prophet. Jerreed is the Arabic name for a
stick used in horse-riding parades. See Lady Duff-Gordon's "Letters from Egypt." Revised edition by
Janet Ross. London. 1902. pp. 242 and 260. Sec \V. S. Blackman, "The Fellahin of Upper Egypt."
London. 1927. pp. 252 and seq.

2. Philippe-Jacques de Horrack. French Egyptologist (1820-1902). See “Notice biographique" by Ph.
Virey. in ”Bibliothéque Egyptologique." vol. XVII. 1907. pp. L-LXVIII. Ph. J. de Horrack was one of
the directors in Paris of T iﬂ‘any. Reed and Co.. and married in 1869 Mrs. Lockwood, niece of Mr. Reed.

129

