[CHAPTER THREE

with chestnuts; it is the best beef we get. M. Maspero has arranged
for a train to Shmoonayn tomorrow at eight, a new way of getting to
the Old City of Thoth. We are in the sugar regions; there are railways
everywhere to bring in the cane to the great sugary here. Opposite
are the ruins of the City of Antino'é which Hadrian built as a monu-
ment to his Antinous. It is now Shaykh Abaadeh and they tell me
there is much anteekeh there. Mayhap the colossal head belongs to
an Antinous, or rather if we take the beard into account, to a
Hadrian. It sprinkles a little, and the interest of the table is divided
between the game of chess and the game of dominoes which Mr.
V assalli plays with Mme.

RODAH Rodah is a great station of the Daira Saneehey.
Thursday Its Moofettish1 had provided a special train for
yanuary 25, I883 us at eight o’clock, just when, and while we were
awaiting him on the bank, M. Maspero sent us a

line saying “Go without me.” Piehl and I ran down to see him; he
said he was not ill but could not go and we must go without him. So
we with Charmes and Bouriant steamed half an hour to Ashmoonayn
where at the house of the Mamoor were donkeys. I as the sheikh of
the party, was condemned to the swell donkey, whose movements
were lively but mainly upright and downright; I had to hold on his
broad saddle which would turn if left alone, and the width of which
was ill-adapted to my femoral habits; I, too, had the pleasure at a
turn which he resisted of sliding around, with the saddle on my back.
No bones were broken but one of my last year’s parasol and I have a
new one. Leaving the City of the Eight till our return we began to
meander toward Gebel Tooneh where is the famous stele of the
Unitarian King. We meandered till we reached the Bahr Yussuf
(Mme. Potiphar’s Yussuf) a wide and ﬂowing stream. There was a
boat one said, below to the north. So we went northwards to El
Areen the Northern, and north of it we found a boat which referred
us to a boat to the north. This northern boat referred us to another
town still more north where there was a boat. But we had northed
enough, so I insisted and the North Boat came over for us. Landing,
we meandered north and west and south till we almost reached
Tooneh town. I and the servant of the Moofettish, Aly Moosa, were

 

I. Moofettish—Inspector.

198

