OCTOBER 1881 To APRIL 1882]

at the Abd-er-Rasool tomb with Rhoné and his daughter who had
been to the Tombs of the Kings and then we ﬁltered through a lot of
Tombs to make a list of the owners of those numbered by Wilkinson.
My little reis Mahmoud Abd-er-rahman was waiting for us on the
other side and it was nearly dark when we crossed. The Princes’ boat
has come back and we are all going off in the morning.

Saturday When I got up, we were at Koos,l two hours steam-
March 18, I882 ing from Luxor. We donkey—backed a quarter of
an hour to the little town, where Mahmoud showed

us people who had small steles; Maspero bought two, bilingual, for
seventeen francs. The temple is back at Shenhoor2 whither I hope to
go another time. Then we came an hour further to Koft, the ancient
Coptos and there we found ruins enough, granite pillars of Thothmes
III, a multitude of remains of temples from his time down to Ptol.
X, Ptol. XIII, Tiberius and other Caesars. Four of the Thothmes
pillars are standing; others are lying about, square; of such one sees
two at Karnak. The Christians have hammered all the inscribed faces
except one, which is left to tell the tale. Far on to the east is a great
forum, ten times as big as Pompeii’s, about which are piled up the
crude brick houses of a large city, all surrounded by a huge wall with
solid bastion towers, those at the east end of the forum almost per-
fect. In this forum near the north side and rather east of the centre
is an altar of black granite, or perhaps a table on which the Sacred
bark of Isis was set to rest during its processions. The ornamentation
of it is like what we see on such stands on the walls of temples. When
we came up the river Mahmoud had brought us an estampage of this
and on it I had seen the name of the Isis-temple in Coptos, wherein
was kept the Coptian relic of Osiris. It was called Ha au-ab “Temple
Wide-heart” the Temple of Joy. Then we went three-quarters of a
mile north to a little temple of Tiberius to Khem and Isis,3 who with
a Horus were the Trinity of Coptos. It is the worst in style I have yet

 

x. Kooe: Murray. "Egypt." 1881. p. 448. The two bilingual. are probably in W. Spiegelberg. "Die demoti-
ochen Inschriften" (Catalogue général du Musée du Caire). vol. I. Leipzig. 1904. nos. 31114 and 3x 146.
pp. 45—46. 57-58 and pl. X and XVII.

2. Shenhoor: H .Gauthier. "Dictionnaire des noms géographiques." vol. V. Cairo. 1928. p. 124; Lepeiul.
”Denkmaler." Text. vol. II. Leipzig. 1904. pp. 258-260; Murray. “Egypt.” 1882. pp. 448—449.

3. A. J. Reinach. "Le Temple d’El-Kala a Koptoe" in the “Annalee du Service den Antiquités." vol. XI .
1911. pp. 193—237 with ﬁve plates.

149

l] . l il’ J l .I' x r l'“~* l :I i l

