OCTOBER 1881 T0 APRIL 1882]

has to work hard to make up for others who cannot or do not and he
does not like it over much. I have seen our Jew Consul, who does not
seem a bad fellow. He is forty-ﬁve and a grandfather. On learning
that the English are raising money for digging in Egypt, he proposes
to get the Smithsonian Institution to do so too and I am to take him
to see M. Maspero about it to-morrow.l

Saturday To-day,Saturday, is the twelfth, and the day we
November 12, I881 expect to start is the twenty-third. If I had only
known I would have avoided these mosquitoes.

For two or three days I have been hearing of a silver statue of
N efer—Tum, a wonderful piece of art. Two Arabs, a Greek and an
Englishman have come to me and each says it is a great secret, un-
known to anybody. Mr. Barnard, who went with me to the steamer
to-day told M. Maspero about it; he suggested that it might be false;
a Frenchman Allemand, whom I have seen in Paris and Alexandria
is getting up very nice things.

People are beginning to come. The Cramers, the Swiss people I
liked so much last year, are at the New Hotel to stay a month till
their house is ﬁnished. Elsen is waiting for a doctor who is to join
him on the trip to the Soudan; he told me he had won seven hundred
pounds of prizes in England this summer for shooting. Paul Dubois,
who wants to go to Japan is deterred by the cholera and talks about a
dahabeeyeh with a steamtug attachment. Two Americans here are
starting for one thousand miles above Khartoom, to spy out places
to plant mission schools.

Sunday I went down with Mr. Wolf to the steamer and
November 13, 1881 M. Maspero told him all about what the English
propose to do and he is going to try to get the

Smithsonian Institution—he is a Washington man—to make an ap-
propriation for diggings. So that America may not be behind
England. Then we looked into the huddle of the Museum and uncov-
ered some of the new mummies2 and saw the wreaths about the breast

I. This was the start of the Egypt Exploration Fund. later on Egypt Exploration Society.

2. The royal mummies of Deir el Bahari. See "La Trouvaille de Deir e1 Bahari." Vingt photographies par
E. Brugach; Texte par G. Maspero. Cairo. 1881: pl. III Ahmes rer with ﬂowers; pl. IV. the two giant
cases of Nofritan' and Ahhotpou. pl. V, with ﬂowers; p. I I. the story of the wasp "attracted by the ﬂow-
ers at the time of the burial. enclosed in the cofﬁn perchance and kept intact till today."

77

