completely because as he said to a friend ‘I realize that valuable as
chess might be in training of mind and brain, time could be better
expended in some other direction.’

“During his last ten years any accidental interval oflife seemed to
be ﬁlled with comparison between his own annotations and those of
other Egyptologists. Thus one day, a group of friends had gone to a
Norman townlet, allured by reports of its beauty. It was found to be
so dirty that all decamped. For an hour explorative effort was hope-
fully expended and in the midst of the said effort, the searchers came
upon Mr. Wilbour in a room with a hardened mud floor, devoid of
furniture.

“In the center of the space was his steamer trunk, on the same was
the huge folio of Lepsius and behind it on a camp—stool was the
Egyptologist comparing texts. He stood discomfort wonderfully—
with the mercury at one hundred Fahrenheit in February, he could
spend long hours some twenty—ﬁve feet above the pavement, with his
folio propped somehow between ladder and Egyptian gods in incised
relief, upon the outer wall of Edfou or some other temple. Very heavy
boxes of books accompanied him everywhere and Mrs. Wilbour
opined that ‘keeping house in three continents’ was ‘strenuous’ as
represented by three months annually in a New England village, four
in Egypt and the rest of the year in Paris, with Turin and Leyden,
where there were papyri and friendly professors, handy to his
purposes.

“But most of all perhaps, one must stress Mr. VVilbour’s generosity
as to his acquirements in Egyptology. The famous Donatello is said
to have been so disinterested that he hung his purse on a nail for his
friends to dip into.

“Mr. VVilbour hung up his knowledge for Mommsen, Mahaffy, or
any other learned man to share and publish if he chose, and without
ever seeming to grudge so valuable a gift. Surely that is an unusual
and admirable form of magnanimity.

“Sayce, the Assyrioloist, said to a friend: ‘\Vilbour is the greatest
living text reader.’ ‘How about Maspero,’ was the answer. ‘Maspero
was less inclusive,’ replied Sayce.”

The memory of Charles Edwin V’Vilbour will live on in his Memo-
rial Library in the Brooklyn Museum, which cannot fail to become
one of the principal centers of Egyptological study in America; nor

X

