[CHAPTER TWO

Meantime M. Maspero had not found the Mudeer who was ab-
sent, and so we are to go up to Philae ﬁrst and to begin the cleansing
of the Temple of Luxor afterwards.

Sunday Yesterday morning I had given Mahmood Mo-
7anuary I, 1882 hammed paper to take a cast of a remarkable
stone he described to me near Coptos.l He brought

it back last night and this morning before I was out it was shown. M.
Maspero told me that it was too poor to be of value. Poor indeed it
was but when I laid it out I found out from the few hieroglyphs
which had left their mark in spite of Mahmood’s bungling, and from
his description, that it was a granite altar three feet square and
four feet high and that it was dedicated by Ptolemy Auletes to a
Hathor who was adored there under the name of Matheet in the
Temple Wide Heart, the Temple of Delight. This temple is men-
tioned in Denderah and till to-day was known only from that mention;
now we shall probably on our return go to this altar, which, since it
weighs near three tons, is doubtless in the Temple itself. A charming
day is this. We breakfasted en route for Luxor, on deck. The tem-
perature 68° and in a bottle of wine which Mr. Vassalli had sent,
pledged him a Happy New Year and M. Maspero hoped that you
would be with us for the next. Toward sunset we saw the Beautiful
mountain where so many Thebans have been laid away to rest and
amid salvos from the Consuls, American, English and French, we
tied up to the ﬂoating quay at Luxor. All the town was down to see
the steamer. I got on shore and shook hands with men and boys, my
Mehemet and Mahmood and “Ahmet the Guide” and Abd-el-
Megeed, whose umbrella did me good service last winter, showed me
a boat he was building and a double sakkeeyeh away to the south
and told me that he bought no anteekeh last summer, that in a dream
he thought he had a letter from me and that it told him not to, but to
spend his money on his land, and so he had built the sakkeeyeh for
ﬁfty pounds and the boat was to carry the wheat to market. Oddly
enough, I remember, I thought of sending just such a letter and
should have done so, could I have been sure it would go to him alone

 

1. Dow Covington, "Altar of Ptolemy Neon Dionysos XIII" in "Annalee du Service des Antiquités."
vol. X. 191'0. pp. 34-35 with two plates; G. Daressy. “Scale de statue de Coptos," ibidem. pp. 36—40.
See ”A Report on Coptos" by Raymond Weill. ibidem, vol. X1. 191 I. pp. 97-141 with maps.

104

