[CHAPTER THREE

which Maspero told me that he sounded the walls last year, thought
them hollow and ordered a hole to be made; he said he did not know
whether they had been known to Mariette. I found that Mariette
had copied and published much of them in his Denderaiz‘ and had of
course mapped them on his plan of the temple. A whole folio volume
is devoted to the crypts and these are among the largest. But he had
shut them up and the guardian told me nobody had seen them since
his time. I looked at the text of the souls of the Nome Gods who come
to see Osiris at Denderah, in the room whence the Zodiac was taken to
the National Library and at a text giving the distribution of the
relics of Osiris, and at the procession of the goddesses in the little
Birth Temple and at a propylon which I had not seen before, and
before noon was at the boat again. There Mme. told us how she had
been to see the Temple soldier’s Circassian wife and that she was as
ﬁne as a dancing girl and everything about her house was so neat and
nice she must be one. Her husband, Aly Efendi, is having a new
house built not far from the temple at the cost of the Museum, but
she would never go to live there she said; there were none but fella-
heen women there while in Keneh there were four or ﬁve Circassians
which made a society for her. If he went there, she’d divorce him.
Which quite shocked Mme. to whom a husband is a perfect Lord and
Master. So we conjectured that Mrs. Aly may be one of the Great
Hareem out of which many presents were made to many people four
years ago when Ismael left Egypt and didn’t take all his slave girls.
And so we steamed down to Belianeh talking much of the heat and
our sufferings though in my room on the sunny side of the boat the
thermometer would not mark more than 74° ......

THE BELIANEH We set out an hour earlier than ever before, at
BRIGAND seven-ﬁfteen for a little pyramid, an hour south-
Thursday southeast of Abydos. The way was interesting

March 29, 1883 because it was a new one and my donkey boy

Mehemet Hassan knew or invented a name for
every ﬂower along it. He told me all about the terrible Aboo Stayt
who has two thousand feddans of land and a hundred camels and

sixty donkeys and gamoos and cows and sheep without number that I

 

I. A. Mariette-hey. ”Dendérah." Vol. III. Paris. 1871.
24.2

