[CHAPTER ONE

Mr. A’du who held ofﬁces of the Pyramid of Pepi and his two sons,
Ramerm and Nefer-ka-m, the ﬁrst two of which are those opened
west of Sakkarah.

Friday the twenty-ﬁrst we journeyed on a very winding way till
we came to the mountain behind which lies the Tombs of the Kings.
I alternated the courses of the breakfast with views of Karnak and
scanned the west of Thebes for the Temple of Seti; The Ramesseum,
the Colossi and Medinet-abu. There they were, a little weak, but
still there and looking wonderfully like their photographs. I took
possession of them and felt at home. In the evening, after getting
very comfortable quarters at the crowded Hotel I went with every-
body else to a fantasia at old Mustapha Agha’s.1 It consisted of coffee
and a dame. The old woman who seemed to be the Watcher of the
rest looked exactly like some of the earliest statues in the Boulak
Museum; it was her daughter who danced with a bottle of water
stopped by a lighted candle on her head and who after all the circum-
gyrations you can imagine lay down on a carpet spread for her and
rolled from end to end of 1t without disturbing the equilibrium of the
bottle. These G/mwazee seem to have the power of independent and
vigorous motion of all the soft parts of the body and astonish you as
much with their breasts, abdomen and seat as Dr. Cochrane did with
his ears. Two of them wore gorgeous dresses embroidered with much
gold, and great strings of coin about their necks. Then, the moon
rising at ten-thirty we rode to Karnak for the ﬁrst sight. The avenue
of Sphinxes seemed almost alive and the immensity of the ruins and
their grand old outlines were less marred by the horrible dilapidation
than in the scrutinizing sunlight. Sometimes it is better not to lift the
veil of Isis, you may ﬁnd that she does not keep herself clean.

The Hypostile Hall is the Yosemite forest in stone.

Saturday I went with the Youngs, whose boat we had overtaken
at Keneh and who went with us to Karnak, to the Tombs of the
Kings, the long way by the Temple of Seti. we went with the
Cookeeyeh to those described in Murray2 and then to two or three

I. M ustapha Agha Ayat. Consular Agent of England. Belgium and Russia; well known through the leading
rOle he played as a protector of the brothers Abd-er-Rassoul. See Jean Capart, “Lectures on Egyptian
Art." Chapel Hill, N. C.. 1928, p. 258. The story will be told later by Wilhour himself. See also Lady
Duff-Gordon's Letters from Egypt. Revised Edition by Janet Ross. London. 1902. pp. 118-119.

2. Murray’s "Handbook for travellers in Lower and Upper Egypt." London. 1880.

30

