[CHAPTER ONE

near Korn Ombo where one great temple tumbling into the river
serves as break—water for another two—thirds buried in the sand.1
There was a while no wind, then so much that we had to stop to
avoid the ﬂaws of wind and at sunset I took a walk of one and one-
half miles along the desert to see a dahabeeyeh similarly tied up
which showed the Stars and Stripes. With a Nubian I was tramping
along the road to Assuan and hailing a Yankee on the deck I asked
him “How many miles to Assuan?” He thought it too far for that
night and invited me on board, where I found a Mr. Robbins,
Mrs. Jackson and daughter, a Miss Osborn and another young lady
besides two Englishmen. We talked Nile and antiquities; they had
left Cairo December third and were on their way down from the
Second Cataract, having most of their sight-seeing yet to do. We
talked till Mr. Elsen sent another man to look for me; two more soon
met us and ﬁnally half the boat’s crew lighted me on board. I mea-
sured the distance apart of the telegraph poles which continue up the
Nile almost without end; they are twenty-ﬁve to the mile.

ELEPHANTINE To-day we arrived partly by poling and partly
Saturday by sailing at Assuan where the granite gives a
Feéruary 5, 1881 new and delightful scenery unknown to the lower
Nile. We moor at Elephantine and its Nubian in-

habitants are new. Here we see for the ﬁrst time the costume of the
girdle with pendant strings. All the women of the place have been
bringing me bits of pottery with inscriptions Coptic, Greek and De-
motic; they ﬁnd them in the great mound of the old town where
Khnum was the-God of the First Nome. The great and a smaller
temple were not “utilized” until this nineteenth century, in which it
is such a blessing to live. Now little is left. I have been through the
bazaars, seen some weapons and coarse ornaments made in Soudan
and a few bad ostrich feathers and been South-Eastward one—half a
mile to a temple of Ptol. IV, Philopator, a little building scantily
decorated, which escaped Champollion being then quite as it is now
almost under the debris. In front the King makes adoration and of-
fering to Osiris, Isis, Horus, Sebek—ra, Khem-ammon and Hathor as
well as to Khnum, Sati, Anket, Isis and Amon of Thebes; in the sanc-

 

1. Murray. "Egypt." 1880. p. 516. See “Catalogue den Monuments et Inscriptions de l'Egypte antique."
Vol. II. Vienne. 1895. pp. 1-5.

42

