DECEMBER 1880 TO APRIL 1881]

the boat over the rapids in forty minutes. We have had a very pleas-
ant time together and I wish I could go down with him. But the daha-
beeyeh kills time too much for me.

POSTAL STEAMER The Masr came up this morning with ﬁfty-six
Monday Cookeeyeh. Mr. Rostowitz was in charge and
F eémary I4, 1881 ..... invited me to go down on the Marr to
Luxor, but I had already the Khedive’: receipt
and could ill spare another day away from my letters. So I am on this
juggly boat as you see. We had been coming about an hour when we
overtook Mr. Elsen’s dahabeeyeh rowing sturdily against a head-
wind. He and I waved hats but I heard nothing of what hetried to
say. With him was another dahabeeyeh with some very pleasant
Scotch people whom we came to know in the Temple. Rostowitz told
me it was understood that’ the Frenchman who came on to found the
School had been appointed to Mariette’s place, an architect-engineer.
Franz Bey was on board his boat to report on the condition of the
monuments and what was most needed. M. Vossion had charged me
to impress upon M. Maspero the importance of digging out Esneh,
the Ptolemaic temple of which is wholly covered, only the Roman
pronaos being exposed. I agree with him. That will give us four Ptole-
maic temples in excellent condition, enough to ﬁnd out what consti-
tutes a temple, what is essential and what is put in to ﬁll up, what is
general to all and what is special to a particular worship.

N EARING LUXOR I spent the evening in the Temple of Edfoo till
Tuesday morning midnight. It was a great pleasure to absolutely
February 15, 188! see in stone the texts I have studied so much and

to remember them as on such a wall of such a
room and not on such a page of such a book. Of course I could only
see the lower inscriptions by the light of my candles, but I saw all
those hung on the eye line tolerably well, for candle light is better
than sunlight for most of them. The guardian of the temple had heard
of Maspero’s appointment though he had not the name quite right.
The vastness of the temple and the solemnity of the night in it under
the soft beauty of the full moon was tempered by the eager curiosity
to decipher and identify the texts I know.

45

