[CHAPTER FIVE

and beautiful. Please send me permission to excavate and I will
clear the temples and if anything found, will retain it for you. Princi-
pal temple a hundred feet long, sixty broad. On one tomb cartouche
of Twelfth Dynasty, on another of Twenty-ﬁfth Dynasty.” Maspero
telegraphed the permission and awaits the letter to-night.

There were many visits yesterday and to-day. First, the Consuls,
American, Italian, German, English and French. Mustapha is still in
Cairo but Ahmed represents him, ready now to get out of his con-
demned house if Maspero will help him get a building place on the
riverside. Aly thinks the mosque can be moved well enough out of
the temple to the river bank, but the Sheikh Aboo’l Haggag’s1 tomb
has been there seven hundred years now and it would not be right to
move that. Two years ago pious Luxor thought it sacrilege to move
the mosque; to-day everybody I have heard speak of it, wants it
done. And the Khedive says the Sheikh can be moved too. All the rest
will say so after the mosque is moved. Somebody will dream that the
good old man appeared to him and asked to be taken out of this
profane pagan temple, where he is surrounded by forbidden images of
living things.

Dr. Lansing has more than doubled the American school house
and it is full of dusky scholars. Upstairs we found three American
men, two women and two children. I have not placed them exactly,
but a Mr. Marsh reminds Maspero of the Fat Boy in “Pickwick” and
Senator Ferry of Michigan absorbed me. You remember he was long
President of our Senate eight or ten years ago. The women look like
missionaries wives. There IS an American woman with a little girl at
the Luxor Hotel. Her husband 15 a friend of John Cook. Her language
is a phenomenon. I have heard such I think, about two hundred miles
up the Oklawaha River in Florida. Philo thinks it hard to be repre-
sented by her.

Then there is a little steamer with four Frenchmen here, and a
painter whose work I have not seen, and Insinger, the Dutchman of
years past, who instead of dying, as we thought he must is having a
good time in his dahabeeyeh, which, only two years old is already
growing too small for his increasing family. There are three other
dahabeeyehs, up the river, instead of the hundred there used to be.

1. G. Legrain. “La Geste dc Yousef Abou'l Haggag. patron dc Louqsor" in “Louqsor sans lee Pharaona."
Brussels. 1914. pp. 45-91.

352

