[CHAPTER FOUR

Thursday two more this morning besides one I missed. The
April3, 1884 ﬂood came at eight o’clock while we were ploughing
the sands of Benisooef. It was not so heavy as yester-
day and things dry quickly here. There is still a furious Norther but
we are making good progress in its teeth. Near Ayat we are saluted by
Mme. de Rochemonteix from her little dahabeeyeh. He is up there
about the surveying of the land of the Domains. For they are going
to try to sell them and get them into hands which know better how to
work them. We reached Bedreshayn in time for nearly everybody to
go to Cairo, leaving only three at dinner. Somehow there was a sense
of relief; I hope there won’t be when I am gone.

Friday ..... Toward night I went to Mitrahenny, the
April 4, 1884 site of Old Memphis with Said, and we got a lot of
things, among them several Roman lamps and a good

Egyptian head.

Saturday We three went over to Sakkara and spent the day in
April 5, 1884 the tombs Maspero has been digging out.l Nearly all
of them were west of Pepi’s pyramid and north of

Horemsaf’s. I took the titles and bearings of them, so that when they
are covered I may ﬁnd them again. There were Teshera, Shema, Aart
and Neba in the second group and in the ﬁrst Hunna, Apa and
Mentuhotep. This last tomb was very peculiar, the person being re-
peated a hundred and thirty times inside his sarcophagus with some
title or epithet. Apa’s is so ﬁne that the only side left of it is to adorn
the Museum.2 He and his wife seem to have had one daughter twice
over, or perhaps the ﬁrst died and the second had the same name.
Then we went into that terribly dangerous pyramid which Henry
Brugsch warned me against three years ago. It did not seem any
more dangerous than the rest. We admired it and measured it; Mas-
pero has had it paper stamped and will print it some day. Returning
to the boat, Said had made a harvest in Sakkara, a Greek head with
the nose broken to make it authentic, “Mme. Thuaa’s wine jug”
with four handles, and jugs with two handles and small things many.

 

I. G. Maspero. "Trois années de fouilles dans les tombcaux dc Thebes et de Memphis." Paris. 1885. p.
199 et seq.; Plan in Porter-Moss. “Topographical Bibliography.” vol. III. Oxford. 1031. p. 180.
2. G. Maspero. “Guide to the Cairo Museum." Cairo, 1910. no. 38. pp. 28-29.

304

