FEBRUARY 1884 T0 MAY 1884]

a wonderful sunset with the delicatest of hues reﬂected from a glassy
sea and since dinner I have been able to write all this without head-

bother.

BOULAK A week has passed and my head is settling.
MASPERo’s STEAMER The voyage had incidents; four times the
February 9, 1884 engine broke and we stopped for repairs,
once nine hours, in all fourteen hours. Yet we

arrived at the usual time. Captain, or as Dora would correct me,
Commandant Canaque spent most of his leisure time gesticulating
to Mme. Maspero, who relates his conversation very piquantly.
He is not so tall as she and not half so thick. As I did not walk about
and could read but little, I solicited talk from the English women
and the Wﬁrtembergoise. Mrs. Atherley is a cousin of Mrs. Berkeley
who has been on the Nile now twelve years with her husband, Charles
B., “who is a brother of Lord F itznoodle, you know.” Perhaps it was
Fitzhardinge, I am not quite sure. They, Mrs. A and companion,
are going to Luxor and Palestine and generally. The Wﬁrtembergress
was more proﬁtable. She recounted to me her travels in Spain and
Morocco in ’82, her wonder at the Alhambra (Yes she had heard of
Washington Irving; a hotel there was of his name), and her admira—
tion for the sheiks of Tetuan and Tangiers; her voyage to the North
Cape in ’8 3 and how she used to lie in her steamer chair till three or
four in the morning when they would come to wash the decks,
watching the light and the ﬁords, the mountains and the sea. But her
eyes were weak and “did not go the same way (that is, squinted) and
she never left her own country without at least six looking—glasses
(eye-glasses)- she was so short-sighted.” I gave her an ethnographical
turn and from her own experience she thought the chief virtues of
Englishmen (not the nation) were truthfulness and manliness; of the
Spanish, ﬁerté and chivalry; of the Germans, bravery; of the French,
ﬁery courage; of the Italians, saying pleasant things to women; but
no, that was not a virtue. She did not know Americans enough to
say. I suggested self-reliance and respect for women. She thought so
from what she had read. The American girls she saw in Stuttgart
seemed ambitious to marry poor titled ofﬁcers; caring apparently
more for the title than the man, which was very bad indeed. The
Prussians were too arrogant; it would be good if somebody would

259

