[CHAPTER ONE

such ﬂurry of passengers, such colors rushing to and fro—the buzz
and'the busyness of a hive of bees magniﬁed. But the bulky bawwab
of the hotel gave serene orders and soon two of the trunks had been
lowered over the side of the vessel into a boat. Then “Aly” appeared
at the cabin door and then the old Saratoga and then at the other
end of it another man. It had been too much for the man who could
lift the steamer! With much creaking of many men the bight of a
small cable was put about it; as it went over the side it fell for two
or three feet but the cable stood ﬁrm and ﬁnally it was lowered into
the boat.

Then I went down the ladder and with the aid of my staff stepped
from boat to boat till I came with Aly to the éawwab and the other—
so socially to the Custom House with the boats of all the fellow travel-
lers. There an Italian commissionaire from the Hotel took charge. I
gave my passport to the Arab ofﬁcials, to ﬁnd it again next day at the
Consulate, and saw my three things in a row before more Arab ofﬁ—
cials. Now came the tug! What if they should open the big basket.
My Belgian had written to his Consul for a kavars to take his riﬂes
and cartridges through and for two days had suffered panic lest he
should not come. If he came he was to help me. But I had lost sight
of the Belgian. The fez—capped oﬁicial put his hand on the Saratoga,
and when it was open, wondered a little. “E pittore” said the lying
Italian; the big oaken staff was a good reliance that day. He asked
me if I wished to give them anything; I nodded my head and we
passed on, I to the Hotel omnibus, my three to the Hotel cart. As the
entire expense from state-room to hotel room I found eight francs on
my bill; I did not dispute it. Going to the hotel there were glimpses of
petroleum lamps, Arabs in all kinds of costume, the Eastern mostly
adorned with some article of Western, and many Greeks and Italians
generally wearing the fez. '

Perhaps as dirty as Salerno. In the evening escorted by a small
Arab (also Aly) I found my way to Miss Harris.l She had company
and introduced me to a lot of people, Greek, Nubian and English.
One of the last, who had lived eighteen years there, told me that the
summer heat was never above 8 3° but was overpoweringly oppressive
from its humidity. It was no time to see the few hieroglyphics which

I. Miss Harris was the daughter of A. C. Harris. H. B. M’s Consulwceneral in Alexandria. who sold to the
British Museum. in 1872. an important collection of Egyptian papyri.

6

 

l] i l il’ J l .I' x t l‘“~* l :I T l

