FEBRUARY 1884 T0 MAY I884]

this year, that in many places ten feet of wall are exposed for the ﬁrst
time this millenium. Three pillars had risen out of the ground, of
Imperial time, bearing a cartouche unseen before. So in the evening,
this .time with Said for lantern-bearer, and he was not afraid, I went
up and surveyed them and copied what was visible. The new car-
touche is Teebreeoo, and it is the ﬁrst time we ﬁnd our old friend of
Capri, Tiberio, so written in hieroglyphics. There was wind which
made my light ﬂicker or I should have worked on into the night, for it
is a pleasure to avoid the glare of the sun and of his too friendly
children.

Sunday This birthday of yours we celebrated by steaming
March 2, 1884 down to Haseya,l six miles south of Edfoo where the
Copt Austrian Consul of Luxor had found mummies

for Maspero. We donkeyed southwest half an hour to a detached
rock-hill in the sands and there found a score of wells three or four
yards square, one of which was cleared out. There were holes cut a
cubit each way from one corner, to go down by, which seeing, Said
said, “It is only Roman; Pharoah did not make like that; he did not
want anybody to go in.” And indeed when they began to take out
broken bits of mummy cases, of a stele hieroglyphic and of a stele
Greek and then some characteristic bitumenized bodies tall and with
strong Roman noses, and Brugsch went down the twelve—foot pit and
in at the little door in the corner opposite the steps, and came out
reporting about ﬁve hundred more such mummies, we knew that
Said was right. So we went back through the sand and steamed to
Edfoo where the Consul showed the Consuless through the temple
and the people brought anteekeh to the boat not the good ones they
sell the Howagat2 for guineas, but the wretched stones the Mudeer
pays francs for, and then on to El Kab where we tied up for the night.
I had a pleasant donkey ride over the walls of this great fortress, and
about the enclosure, while the rest looked among the rubbish. Mo—
hammed Shayn picked up before Mme. Maspero a very pretty little
scarabée of Thothmes III drawing a bow.3 It is the ﬁrst scarabée

1. El-Hisaiah on the map of Baedeker. “Egypt.” Leipzig. 1929; El Qacaa of G. Maspero. “Premier Rap-
port sur les Fouilles exécutées en Egypte de 1881 a 1885." in “Bibliothéque Egyptologique." vol. I. Paris.
1893. pp. 209-21 1.

2. Howagat - Gentlemen; Mudeer - Director. i. e. Maspero.

3. Exhibited with the W ilbour Letters in the Brooklyn Museum.

281

