OCTOBER 1881 T0 APRIL 1882]

M. Maspero. One was said to come from a temple one and one-half
hours west of that town and as it is of the time of the second Pepi,
the one whose pyramid has just been copied, and has two very pecu—
liar forms of the goddess Hathor, we will look at it on our way back.
Yesterday Mme. Maspero and her mother went into the latticed part
of Seleeb’s house at Abydos, to see the wife and daughters, who
showed them all their pretty things. One daughter tried to explain to
Mme. Maspero that her husband was in prison at Sohag and to inter-
est her to get him pardoned out. The soldier inspector on the way
back, at my request, told me the story. Her husband, Georgius, had
ﬁve years ago shot a man in Alexandria, had been tried for it and ac-
quitted. Five months ago a man was found dead in Abydos, he had
been shot. His brother accused Georgius, and he was tried at Sioot
and condemned to ﬁve years’ imprisonment. Nobody saw him do it
and the soldier, Ahmed Effendi, was sure that he did not do it. But,
he said, the people were jealous of Seleeb because he was rich. I would
not be surprised also if being a Copt was against him. M. Maspero
and M. Bouriant copied Coptic inscriptions1 in the part of the temple
which was used for a church.

Thursday We started very early and it was only getting
Decemhr 29, 188! light when a paddle broke and we had to wait an
hour to mend it. So, as the engineer runs that
part of the trip, we all lay in bed till nine. Then I spent the day in
going over the published texts of Abydos and placing them on the
walls as I had seen them. A mighty wind came up and we overtook
the Pasta! without her towing steamer, though she was sailing two—
thirds as fast as we were steaming. We followed the river South and
North and West and East through this most meandering part of its
course and at sunset tied up at Keneh where M. Maspero has Mu-
seum business and from which we visit Denderah to-morrow.

Deceméer 31, 1881 We did and I go again alone to-day while the
rest mudeer and bazaar, and the postal boat has
just come to take this.

 

I. The Coptic inscriptions are published by W. E. Crum in M. A. Murray. “The Oaireion at Abydoo."
London. 1904. pp. 38—43 and pi. XXV—XXXVII.

IOI

