[CHAPTER ONE

NAPLES I ﬁnd no letters but they will be forwarded to Cairo.

19th I convoyed ﬁve Americans of our six on shore and left them
to the tender mercies of an Italian guide and went to Mr.
Turner’s to ﬁnd no letters. To do this was depressing; to write it is de-
pressing, the more because we are just now moving—not all ahead.
On sea give me the line of rectitude; the curved line is the line of
beauty only on land. I loafed about the Toledo for two hours and
looked at things I might want, bought nothing and rejoined my ﬁve
at one-thirty to come on board. They had told us the Pe/me would
sail at two, consequently she started at ﬁve-thirty and we sped out in
the gathering gloom between the promontory of Sorrento and the
romantic Island of Tiberio and our handsome donkey girl, the be-
trothed of the Bather of the Blue Grotto. Bidding good-bye to the
Faraglioni and red Vesuvius, at the bidding of the tea bell, I culti-
vated my right hand Belgian seven-footer, who goes up the Nile to
shoot and stuff birds, for an hour or two and ended with a conspiracy,
with the Armenian who was scratching himself against the ills of
Egypt, about eleven o’clock. We are already conﬁdential friends and
he is coming up to Luxor this winter in his dahabeeyeh; the Belgian
tells me he is a Pacha; perhaps next week somebody will tell me his
name.

They had promised me a room in the carré consequently they had
given me one beside the machine. The steward to whom I had men-
tioned this, came about ten o’clock and with much emphasis on the
excellence of the new room, gave me a large one over the screw. When
I went to bed I found a lady asleep there. I represented to the steward
that I would rather not disturb her; he seemed very much surprised
(that she was there) and gave me another with four beds, also over
the screw. But as the night and sea were still it was very comfortable
and I was wakened by the sun to see Stromboli and Lipari Islands
and Etna rising, a mile ofsnow above the pedestal of the Coast Range.
It was a lovely sight to watch the changing of the coast and break-
fast was much interrupted, somehow so: oysters, then up to see
Charybdis-—~ﬁsh, Scylla—meat, Messinaufruit, Reggio. Now we are
out, have had a little rain storm and the boat is moving so much that
I can write no longer.

