[CHAPTERFIVE

ginning of the papyrus was lacking and if the Goddess of Egyptian
Fortune had given Maspero one wish, he could have thought of
nothing better to ﬁnd than this lost beginning. Here it is equal to
seventy-ﬁve lines of the papyrus, the last thirty being also given by
the papyrus and affording an opportunity for comparison. It is a
wonderful piece of good luck and makes up for considerable unpleas-
antness.

Wednesday Toda spent the day with Insinger printing the
February 17, 1886 negatives taken at El Kab on our way up. For
two or three years Maspero has been accumulat-
ing copies and paper stamps of these tombs intending to make a com-
plete publication of them. Last year he found one, the Tomb of Renni,
which had stood very well three or four thousand years, cracked and
crumbling and concluded to ﬁnish up this work. M. Grébaut, who
must do something in print to show his activity as Director of the
French School, undertook to take the work done, ﬁnish it and pre-
pare it for publication. Last night he was to look over the photo-
graphs taken and say what more he wanted and Insinger would take
them this morning; the boat would stop till twelve for that purpose.
Grébaut didn’t look them over last night. We reached El Kab at
eight this morning and I went up to continue the work on the tombs
which I began ﬁve years ago. I worked till after ten, then heard the
steamer whistle and, supposing the photographing had been given up
and Maspero wanted to start, went down to the boat to ﬁnd that it
was a passing steamer which had saluted and Grébaut and sister were
just getting ready to go out photographing. Maspero was trying to
philosophize. But he found it still harder when he whistled for them
from twelve until one and he will ﬁnd it harder still when he ﬁnds
that they did not try to take any hieroglyphics, but were only trying
to get some picturesque views. \Vhen in Paris Maspero had an idea of
making Grébaut his successor as soon as possible. I think he is experi-
encing a change.

Thureday The more so as this delay for experimental, aim-
February 18, 1886 less photographing brought us into the night be-
fore reaching Erment and we ran upon a sand-

bank and staid there till after one today. It was the longest stoppage

368

