NOVEMBER 1888 TO JULY 1889]

thing with sand and continued with some abatement for two or
three hours after which there was a high wind for a day. This storm I
afterwards learned struck Luxor before two P. M.

February 16, 1889 I got out of bed when Cook’s express came

along and looked for the Judge in vain among
its fourteen passengers; we were more lucky with the Postal Boat on
which he was shaking his lank arms, as lively as though there had
been no sand storm. Soon after three native boats went up laden
with black soldiers. Toward night we got on a little way and

February 17, 1889 we reached Silsileh about nine. I went carefully

over the Chapels of Seti, Ramses II and Menep-
tah and corrected Ramses’ Nile tablet1 in Champollion. Then down
to the Amenophis II grottoes when the sun was strong and I was
soon ready to leave. Meantime Lottie and Dora visited the great
quarry on the other side. We came on past Silway and in the evening

found Mme. Lefevre ill.

EDFoo We passed the dreaded shoal above Edfoo be-
February 18, I889 fore noon; the Sultana grounded for a quarter
of an hour only. We got much mail and were
duly thankful. M. Lefevre told me his mother had dysentery and
they would hurry to a doctor at Luxor. Lottie wrote some directions
and Isailed over with them to the Sultana after she had started.
The Judge came down by the Postal Boat and I put him into my
room, resuming my old bed of the ﬁrst voyage, narrow but soft. By
this mail we heard of Rodolphe’s death. It may be fairly laid to
Bismark, for had not political ambition been closed to him, he, a
middle-aged man with a reputation to sustain, would have found a
legitimate channel for his intense activity. So Austria as well as Italy
pays the penalty of self-enslavement.

February 19, I889 ' On our way to the temple in the morning we met
the Guardian coming to visit us. I tried to tell
the Judge something about it, but he has many suggestions to make.

 

 

I. See Ludwig Stern. ”Die Nilstele von Gebel Silsileh." in “Zietschrift fﬂr agyptische Sprache und Alter
thumskunde." Vol. XI. 1873. pp. 129—135.

519

