[CHAPTER FIVE

This morning after breakfast, when the Captain told me we might
get in to-night, I had to lie down and was still dozing when the
slowing of the screw waked me and I looked out and saw the old
sand hills. They gave me heart to pack and on deck they said there
was no quarantine; the Arab doctor examined us and we passed him
and into the boats where two or three fellows were old acquaintances.

The little old Hungarian woman looked weak; she had been sick
ever since Corfu, had made the voyage seven times and never had
such a terrible time before; she would have to rest two or three days
in Alexandria where she lived before the Revolution.

It is different here at the Hotel Abbatt. I do not ﬁnd Mr. and Mrs.
Farman who were so hospitable when I left here last. I have met a
two hundred and thirty-ﬁve-pound young American, much interested
in antiquities, who wishes to go up the river and is disappointed that
Cook may not send up a boat on the twenty-sixth when he had ad-
vertized to do so. He would like to go with me to-morrow but is dis-
mayed as well he may be, at the idea of donkey-riding. For the
Photographer Fiorillo tells me that Middlemass-Bey who lives out at
Buckley’s station at Ramleh, had discovered a ﬁne statue, covered
with hieroglyphics at Abookeer and I think my head, which has been
much settled by my dinner, will by to-morrow be safe to go out
with. . . . .

HOTEL ABBATT Five nights I have slept in a bed, and this morn-
ALEXANDRIA ing my head arose to swim again. Indeed that was
yanuary 4, 1886 a storm last Monday night. Thursday morning,
having heard that the Inspector of the Coast

Guard, Middlemass-Bey, had discovered a large granite statue at
Aboo—Keer, the site of Nelson’s battle and of old Canopus, I found
him on the top of a high building overlooking the Port, and he pro-
posed I should come out to Ramleh, where he lives at Bulkeyey’s
Station and ride with him to Abookeer and back, seventeen miles.
An angel would have feared to accept. I rushed in, regardless of my
unsteady seat and after visiting the Syrian antiquity man’s wife and
nephew (for Wacyf is dead), and ﬁnding his stock nigh exhausted,

with Judge Farman’s successor, Gen. John B. Kinsman,l a genial

 

I. J. B. Kinsman. American attorney, graduated from Harvard. appointed judge to the International
Court at Alexandria. on May S. 1885.

336

