[CHAPTER ONE

LUXOR Soon after I sent you my last we got the telegram

Monday of the Czar’s murder.1 It made my heart sink to

March 21, 1881 read it. Verily it is not for their evil deeds that men

are assassinated. The two great emancipators of

our time are both assassinated because they were emancipators. It is
the greatest offence to the world to try to make it better.

The doctor’s wife and Miss Francis lunched at Mustapha’s with his
wife and granddaughter two days ago, Mustapha’s son Ahmed doing
the carving and interpreting. The lunch was in Arab style and the
carving with the ﬁngers. They were much amused, somewhat dis-
gusted and one of them had her digestion quite upset by it.

To—day’s boat brought a note from Mr. Cumming with a commis-
sion to buy him Mrs. Potiphar’s earrings and anklets and mail them
and yours of March sixth. . . . . . Brugsch does not love Mas-
pero but he does not hate him; Brugsch was beaten rather by Lep-
sius. He is going to Berlin and there in the Berlin University he pro-
poses to be a private docent of Egyptology. Nothing can hinder it, he
being a doctor. But he will soon tire of this; he will work at his books
and that will be best for him and for us all. Maspero has been singu—
larly lucky; he has opened the pyramid of King Unas, upsetting the
old idea that the Mastabat e1 Faraoon was his tomb, and has found a
complete copy of the long text of which Pepi’s tomb gives a mutilated
copy. He wrote me this as a secret long ago, but I see it to-day in the
Moniteztr. . . . . . The London papers tell us all about General
Garﬁeld’s inauguration and the earthquake which has ruined the
pretty town we saw in Ischia. . . . . . You can hardly under-
stand how pleasant it is to hear all the news you send about every-
body; it is a peep into the world again. Thus far I have had but three
American Registers, but Mr. Dubois lent me half a dozen of the last
Parisians, which he has mailed him direct and which seem to come
regularly.

Todros, the German Consul, and Mustapha Aga, the Brito-Russo—
Belgian Consul get nearly all the antiquities found here of value.

I. ”Alexander II. the emancipator of the serfs. Early in 1881 he determined to try the effect of some
moderate liberal reforms on the revolutionary agitation. . . . On the very day on which this ukasc
was signed—13th of March. ISBI—he fell a victim to a Nihilist plot." Encyclopaedia Britannica.

60

