[CHAPTER THREE

he liked. He begged M. Maspero to compare for him a few words in
the Tombs of the Kings; the Prince, he said, looked a little at Seti's
and then gave the order to go back to the boat. This being in
another tomb he could not spare ﬁve minutes for it. I went up on the
deck with him and Vassalli and Maspero when he started to go and

there in the dusk Vassalli kissed him and he kissed Vassalli and it
seemed to me very spontaneous and very good for these two old men.

Monday We got our papers last night but the letters
yanuary 29, 1883 were delivered only this morning. I had two
French illustrated papers and three Mail: and
an American Register and three Egyptian Gazettes, one of which
tells of the Mooled—en Nebee. I subscribed for this as it is ouronly
means of getting the telegrams. To the great French dead we have
now to add Clesinger1 and Gustave Doré.2 What is the matter with
Dr. Hitchcock? Doesn’t his wife like Paris? I have noticed that
C. C. Burleigh is dead and that Linda Dietz has made a great suc-
cess in a leading part at the St. James in London. You must take
care of yourself and not let theatres or parties endanger you. Your
letter of the seventeenth and one from Linnie came. Do not try to
write at the expense of your eyes! Dictate to Victor or Dora or Zoe,
and spare them.

We waited for the washing till noon and I posted my letter with
enclosures of two forms and then steamed to Sadfeh.

T uesday I have been studying over Brugsch’s new book3
7amtary 30, 1883 on the astronomical inscriptions of Egypt.
There is nothing in it which I had not before

seen in his MSS. but he has arranged his material admirably so as
to make it explain itself as far as possible. Many have tried to get
exact dates from these astronomical data, but they do not take into
account the Egyptian habits of inexactitude. I have found that
wherever there were two observations reported in hieroglyphics
which could be compared together they are sure to contradict each

I. J. B. Clesinger, French sculptor (1814—1883).

2. Gustave Dore. French artist (1833—1883).

3. H. Brugsch, ”Thesaurus Inscriptiarum aegyptiacarum." Vol. I. “Astronomische und Astrologische
Inschriften alttlgyptischer Denkmdlcr." Leipzig. 1883.

202

