[CHAPTER FIVE

lars a piece. The Prince von Hohenzollern was the ignorant pur-
chaser. I have a card from Mrs. Moulton who declines the mummy
which Aly offers her; she will take the will for the deed. Fiorillo has
sent me photographs of the picnic at Abookeer to see the Colossus of
Canopus; I do not look well enough in them to make me ambitious to
send them to you; I am beginning to look like an anteekeh.

Wednesday The wind moderated but it is still cold. I re-
February 24, I886 duced my underclothing in Assuan and have
not increased it. Mr. Eaton, my Bradford oil
friend, tells me of a wonderful scarabee in lapis and gold, which my
friend Mohammed Mohassib has not shown me, and which he asked
Mr. Eaton not to speak to me about. And yet Md. Mohassib pro-
fesses to show me everything. The Coxes went south this morning
and the Armours, Chicago friends of Philo, who is back from As-
suan, this afternoon. I ﬁnd at the hotel the girl with the stopping
heart, who with her mother came up yesterday, and they go to Kar-
nak with me in the morning.

Thursday The cold has caught me and had me out several
February 25, 1886 times during the night and it would be very im-
prudent for me to try to go to Karnak. So I
adopt a diet of boiled milk and go out only to the Temple where Mr.
Insinger takes us, except the Grébauts in a group. Grébaut seized
upon the negative of the other, taken on the boat, and would not al-
low Toda to print any, so we make the group without them. Professor
Sayce and Mr. Myers arrive; they had to stop the windy day, unable
to come down in the storm. M. Morel’s gout continues, painless but
keeping him laid up because of weakness in the ankle joint.

Friday Well, but not up to my ﬁghting weight. Sayce
February 26, I886 tells me that in the eastern quarries at Silsileh,
where we have never landed, he found a nest of

Greek inscriptions and many unpublished hieroglyphic steles. He
and Mr. Davidson want me to go out three hours journey into the
wilderness, where there are some Coptic things and three inscribed
tombs, perhaps. Mr. Eaton came over with young Parson Dennis of

372

