NOVEMBER 1888 T0 JULY 1889]

as they go down tomorrow. The British parson in these parts was
there and rising from the table nearly bent against his bronzed skull
the sharp point of a pretty wrought iron lantern. He raised it of? its
hook and it fell; I hope it was not hurt; that would spoil the pair. He
was not and showed us some good photographs of his taking, some
specially good interiors; one in Seti’s tomb he gave me.

january 17, 1889 Aly came to arrange the dinner for tonight he

had spoken of yesterday; he wanted me to be his
wekeel. He asked if Minister White (Ex—president Andrew D. White
of Cornell, Ex—minister to Berlin) was a Gezeez or a Ministro like Mr.
Cox. I assured him that he was like Mr. Cox (“Sunset" who was here
three years ago) only that he had been Ministro to a stronger coun-
try, a country with two or three million soldiers. Then he said he
would have the dancing-girls. While I was clearing the birth-room of
the Luxor temple of the Sebakh-diggers and their donkeys, Mr.
Fiske and Mr. White had arrived and had called on Lottie and Dora.
Afternoon I went with them through the temple. I placed the dozen
at Aly’s dinner: They, he and we, Mr. and Miss Tooker of their
steamer, Mr. William B. Gould, a Bostonian in the Karnak Hotel,
General Warren of Philadelphia, and Mr. 8: Mrs. Cochrane of
Boston. We had a very good dinner, tho’ Miss Tooker and I mis-
took our napkins for handkerchiefs and Dora insists that the salad
was made with castor—oil. Old Rowayha had come up from Qoos and
with his violin-like rabab made such music as I have heard only from
him. Then we went down to the long hall and more Americans came
in, a dozen or two, and the girls danced, some the same as two years
ago. The old woman Demba, reported dead last year, was there, or
her double, and looked more than ever like the sitting scribe in the
Louvre.

yanuary 18, 1889 Friday post day, but no letters this whole week;

only papers which I must waste time reading, to
ﬁnd out there is no news. Mr. Fiske came in the afternoon and Mr. 81
Mrs. Johnson whom I had met last year at Denderah. He travels in a
steamboat as a Pasha Inspector of Police, but his Britishness is
much mitigated by the intelligent and enterprising interest he takes

505

