[CHAPTER NINE

February 2, 1890 I soon wearied of search in the mountain, but

Sayce reported a Twelfth Dynasty tomb with
hunting scenes and a few hieroglyphics. I discovered that Daressy,l
the sub-keeper of the Museum here, had found and printed our
Smendes tablet. Sayce and Robertson tea-ed with us and the Professor
read us some untranslated tablets of Belshazzar, who while prince
was buying houses and slaves and wine. One tablet was the lease of
a house by his librarian.

In the evening at Esneh the Russells with Miss Dunn and Miss
Thomson called, just down from Assuan. Rais Ahmed told me he
had had no trouble there. The Governor merely wished to see the
papers of his boat and warned him that unless the tax were paid at
once, it would be doubled.

February 3, 1890 We stayed that the Timsaa/z might make bread.

The India stayed to invite us to dinner and we
had a pleasant parting with the Indians, North American we may
call them. Sayce and I copied ring lines on pillars in the temple. Ned
made a sketch in color of Bemba, whose beauty made a deep impres-
sion upon Bayard Taylor in 1851. She now looks like a real North
American Indian. She is much better preserved than most Egyptian
women who have not been dancing girls.

February 4, 1890 We copied more ring lines and then sailed on
with a good wind, though Insinger had prophe-

sized a month of calm, to a little south of F arras.

February 5, 1890 East of Demasseeyeh in a quarry marked on the

old map “petit temple”2 we found and copied
some very odd ﬁgures, of hieroglyphic time, but no hieroglyphs. A
severe sand-storm brought with it a few locusts, some four inches
long. We came on to Edfoo.

February 6, 1890 Without respect for the grand temple we used the
good north wind, but stopped at the old ruin
seen in the photograph you have of our boat. Therein a hole sunk in

r. Georges Daressy. “Les Carriérea de Gebeleln et 1: mi Smendes." in “Recueil de Travaux." vol. X. r888.

pp. 133-138.
2. Atlas of the “Description de l'Egypte." pl. IV at the bottom.

550

