[CHAPTER FIVE

..... Insinger knows the climate here and will not come
down before May, but then he likes hot weather and is undisturbed
by the Khamseen. I have just been discussing the Greek pronunci-
ation question with Maspero, who is decidedly in favor of the Greeks,
but then I suspect he is a little prejudiced against the English.
An old man and his wife, English, were talking around me this morn-
ing in the Museum, saying how bad it was not to have somebody
there who spoke English. I paid no attention. Finally in interrupted
French, he asked me of whom was the statue I was copying. I confess
I was impolite enough to tell him that he would ﬁnd a catalogue at
the door which would tell him all about it. It is astonishing how peo-
ple will come so far and spend so much money to see the Museum and
then economize on a catalogue.

CAIRO ..... I am working all day in the Museum,
[Wednesday going carefully through Maspero’s catalogue.l
March 31, 1886 Maspero is ﬁnishing his translation of the long
stone found in Sen-nozem’s tomb at Thebes which
supplies the missing part of the Story of Saneha. Morel has been to
see the Khédive to-day; he leaves Monday. Vassilli dined with us
last night, the good old man. At one time he lived eleven months in
a Milan prison under sentence of death; luckily the Emperor died in
1840 and the new Emperor amnestied political prisoners. He will be
going back soon to Rome to the love of his youth, the wife of his old
age.

Friday Yesterday I continued Museum and Catalogue.
April 2, I886 Overhauling my photo apparatus I ﬁnd that ﬁve
years of Egypt have warped my plate holders and

they must go back to Paris for regulation ......

This afternoon I went with Morel to the whirling dervishes and,
as always before, their exercises impressed me as deeply religious.
The blood is stirred and the brain dizzied by the movement until
there seems in some cases to be decided ecstasy. Morel quite agreed
with me. They sang well together. Then we went to the American
Mission School and found the afternoon a bad time. Watson was

 

I. G. Maapcro, "Guide du visiteur au Musée de Boulaq." 1883; Paris, 1884.

384

