[CHAPTER TWO

the monks from the Convent of Sitti Mariam (my Lady Mary)1 to
swim out and solicit alms after their barefaced custom of old; but
there was a cry on deck and we rushed up from our books and there
was one of the gorillas, almost hairless, perched in the boat we trail
behind and painfully prudish in his poses. He was so much worse than
naked that I tried to hit him with some big coppers I wanted to get
rid of, but I failed to punish the wretch and he picked them up with
one hand while he used the other so like and yet so unlike the Ve-
nuses, Medicean and Capitoline.

In accounting for- our numbers, I forgot to say that M. Bazil, M.
Maspero’s half-brother, having found a place in Sinadino’s Bank,
stayed in Cairo and that the ancient Sous-Conservateur, Vassalli,
thought he was not well enough. \Ve put down our stakes at Minieh
after trying to peer into the multitude of rock-tombs about Tehneh2
and here we are this morning about to take in coal. Then we hope to
get up to Beni Hassan this afternoon and see what there is to be seen

and done.

ABOVE AMARNA Tuesday we wandered through Minieh and I,
Thursday while the rest went to a mosque, inquired the
Deceméer 22, 1881 prices of things in the bazaar. The best coffee is
twenty-seven cents a pound and there is other
at twenty-two, all from Yemen, which for the beneﬁt of those who
are studying geography, is a part of Arabia. The cheapest rice is
twelve cents. Mohammed bought the biggest and fattest turkey that
ever was for eight francs. Departing in the afternoon we came to
Beni Hassan3 at two and revelled for three hours in the tombs which
we had studied so much. I placed most of the plates so that I know
where they are on the walls and found that the unpublished parts are
really very little. Then we continued and drove our stakes at Rodah
whence,
Wednesday, we came to the city of the Unitarian King, called
mostly now-a-days Tell—el- Amarna,‘ because Haggi Kandil is nearer.

I. Convent known as Deir e1 Bakarah. See the picturesque description by Flaubert in J. M. Carré. ”Voya-
geurs et écrivains francais en Egyptc." Cairo. 1932. vol. II. pp. 102-103.
2. Tehneh. See Murray. "Egypt." 1880. pp. 404—405; W. Wreszinski. "Bericht ﬁber die photomphische
Expedition von Kairo bis Wadi Haifa." Halle. 1927. pp. 28-31.
. Beni Hassan: See P. E. Newberry. “Beni Hasan." 2 vol.. London. 1893-1894.
4. Tell el Arnarna. For the history of the site see N. de G. Davies. “The Rock Tombs of El Alumna."
Part 1. London. 1903. Chapter I.

be

94

