[CHAPTER THREE

used in building the couloir with its hieroglyphed face towards the
body of the pyramid where they supposed it would never be seen.
But that is just why we ﬁnd it, for in both these pyramids instead of
going into and through the granite couloir, they have broken a path
on the west side of it for more than half its length. Maspero was gone
a long time in the North Pyramid and came back saying I could not
get in, that he had seen the two stones, and the cartouche was Khafra,
and the couloir ended in a pit over which in the granite was a pulley
hole for lowering the mummy or sarcophagus. I went in, went along
about ﬁfteen metres where between me and the couloir was a piece
of ﬁne limestone about two feet by three, evidently from a great
temple by the size of the hieroglyphs, evidently of the best pyramid
time by their fashion, evidently over a row of gods by their meaning.
I copied them carefully, this being the ﬁrst temple inscription I have
seen of the pyramid age, and measured the stone ﬁfty-four by eighty-
four centimetres, and went on as much farther where again to my
left, and forming the side stone of the granite couloir was a great
architrave, or perhaps the lintel of a doorway, from a temple of
Khafra. From the lower end, for it lay inclined at the rate of twenty
in the hundred were the tail and wing of a protecting bird, then the
double-crowned hawk and then in a cartouche “The King of Upper
and Lower Egypt, Khafra.” The name “Khafra” is covered by an-
other stone but there is a candle width between them, enough to
illuminate and to see. I copied and measured its eight-nine centi-
metres of width and took the dip of the stone and then put my feet
through a hole which I thought rather small. I felt of the place, re-
membered that there was only the pit and the pulley hole more to be
seen and as some loose stones beside me began to fall, I took my feet
out of the hole and made my way out. A man met me on the way
with a palm ﬁbre cord; he flattened himself in a recess as I passed by
him. Maspero copied my granite inscription. Then the palm cord
came out with a stone tied to one end and a knot eleven and one-half
metres therefrom as I measured it. This is the depth of the well
which is only about a metre wide so that the sarcophagus was prob-
ably built in. The cord was wet up 1.88 m. which shows the depth
of the water in the well. This water is stagnant, as may well be sup-
posed. Then back to the boat and down the river to Bedreshayn

250

