[CHAPTER TWO

good. But it was not so pleasant when somebody thought of the
Lepsius on the twelve shelves of a cupboard made therefor on deck,
and we overhauled it and found that some of the sheets were spotted
by intruding drops. They were covered with dust and sand, which
penetrates everywhere except through a newspaper, and a drop of
water changed this to yellow ink. We brought down the damaged
sheets, and Maspero said he would have paper boxes made for it
when we get to Cairo. I had advised this in time to have them made
before we left Cairo but Mariette had always used the cupboard.
Toward night we had a sharp shower, more like AmeriCa than the
European drizzle, but things had been prepared for it. The ofﬁcial in
charge of the coal at Wasta was absent and his Wekeel was afraid to
give it; so Maspero sent to his ministry a telegram saying so. Some-
how the telegram was stopped on the way and the man surrendered.
Perhaps he was afraid; perhaps it was a suggestion of bakhshish.
However it kept us at Wasta all night.

Sunday We got coal and started before eleven and came down

April 2, 1882 without accident, arriving at Bedreshayn by three.

The sky was strangely blue; it is rarely washed so

well. The brick pyramid at Dashoor has been opened to but not into
the chamber and the fates have yet to speak.

The Captain goes by train to Cairo to-night to see his wife.
Bouriant is going too. Maspero digs quietly on copying Nefer-ka-
Ra’sl pyramid; the one I could not get into, from the paper prints
taken by Brugsch and Bouriant. Here he is going to copy the Pyra—
mid of Teta, the Third Pyramid he has opened which contains in—
scriptions. It is said to be large enough to take me in. The rain which
seems to have reached this place, has made the air delicious to feel
and taste. The Edfoo dahabeeyeh people have invited me; they
arrived here this morning, have been a hundred eighteen days on the
Nile, seen much of it, they say, and little else. They have been very
long coming down against the strong north winds. \Ve shall have to
wait till tomorrow for our letters and I am in a hurry for mine.

 

I. Neferkara—Pepi II.

162

