NOVEMBER I888 TO JULY 1889]

photograph in which the colors are affected by something. Bouriant
says a picture of a picture. I should say a picture of a sugar or choco-
late model. Every crack in the stone, every vein, every hieroglyph is
well drawn, but the air is not there; one has no feeling of presence.
We took tea in the garden with Miss Austin and Miss Byron, with
whom were Miss Jervis, here last year, a friend of Miss Roe who is
breathing better in Brighton, and the two Gardiner boys. In the
evening I called on Johnson Pasha, Inspector of Police in his little
steamer. He was sleepy, his wife engaging. Mohammed Mohassib
called me to see a statue of a Queen named Teta’s—Child. Found near
Drah Aboo ’l Neggah it may be of the Eleventh Dynasty. She is
called not King’s wife but King’s mother. Instead of a wig she has a
beautifully wrought vulture’s feathered skin, the head under-cut,
there is a hole by which the vulture’s neck and head are attached.
The face is not unpleasing and the whole is delicately sculptured in a
delicate limestone. Itis perhaps ten inches high. Mohammed Mohassib
says God has heard his prayer and sent him something for the things
Grébaut took from him. I told him to keep it till the right man1 came
along and then take one hundred pounds for it.

7anuary 21, 1889 Dora and I at eight o’clock rode to the saltpetre

pans south of Karnak where Johnson had a police
exercise, twenty captured eight brigands, the numbers hardly com-
plimentary to the police. There was a great crowd of native specta-
tors who seemed to enjoy the ﬁring and running very much. But
the brigands ran away from their stronghold too soon and Johnson
had to quit the attacking party, ride over to them and order them
back. Mr. 81 Miss Appleton lunched with us, Mrs. being too ill.
While Lottie and Dora tea-ed with Mrs. Johnson, I spent the after-
noon with Mr. White who told me all about the Fiske-Cornell suit,
and how through the meanness of Boardman, their lawyer trustee,
they lost it. Now he was trying to get Mr. Fiske to give them the six
hundred thousand dollars which he would get from his success, re-
taining the income during his life. The rest, one million eightahundred
thousand dollars, was lost to the College and would go to other heirs
and to the lawyers. The arrival of our Soodanese battalion at Assuan

 

1. WIN": right man" was E. Wallis Budge. See "By Nile and Tigris." London. 1920. vol. II. p. 29: and
p ate.

507

