OCTOBER 1881 TO APRIL 1882]

although the walls immediately around them which were not re-
stored, seem now in about the same condition. In a few days we go
back to start work on the Pyramid of Koolah, which Maspero is anx—
ious to see the inside of. Mrs. Wiedemann told me to-day how well
Alfred was, that he could run and do anything; she thought that now
he was quite well. And so he seemed to-day at Karnak.

Salurday I worked in the temple of Luxor in the morning
yanuary 28, 1882 and on the Obelisk of Hashop1 in the afternoon.
The end of a line on the west side of the base is

covered by a very large stone which lies close to it, but I managed to
get my hand in and feel it out. In the copy I was correcting this part
was omitted. Mr. J. Wilson Patterson, of Baltimore, sent me his
dragoman, whom I had seen in Cairo, to say that Judge Batcheller
had talked to him about me and he would be happy to call on me. I
gave the Bedawee my card for him. He and his wife called while I was
at Karnak and left an invitation to dinner Sunday. Brugsch is anx-
ious I should get out my photographic apparatus. There are only
three dahabeeyehs here now and all are American; it would seem that
the English are very much scared this year. We are going up Monday
to start the opening of the Pyramid Koolah and the clearing of the
Temple of Taoud. Mr. Naville will go with us. He will have to sleep
on the divan in the saloon; there are no beds long enough on the boat.

Sunday Brugsch is showing Maspero about on the other
yanuary 29, I882 side of the river; Abd-er-Rasool as well as his
brother Mohammed accompany them. Brugsch

tells me that he let him out of prison when he came up in the summer
to get the things and he thinks the brothers have made up and are
friends. I have been across the river but twice yet. Brugsch left my
card this morning at the Gemee/e/z, was recognized and invited also.
We had a pleasant evening. Mrs. Patterson showed me all her photo-
graphs of pretty girls and one of Hurlbert of the World posing dread-
fully, you might say killingly. She admires him very much, but had
not heard of his wife though she knows his sisters well. Mr. Patterson
knows Dr. Warren in Baltimore and got his dragoman from him. The

 

I. The Obelisk of Queen Hatshepsut at Karnak. The name of the Queen made difﬁculties for a long time:
the oldest. Egyptologists read Hatasu afterwards Hashop.

123

