OCTOBER 1881 T0 APRIL 1882]

morning by the voice of prayer and it often reminds me of the
“prepaaaared” of Bub Gray. These Arabs do their own praying and
do it very heartily. I have read Mrs. Cooper Bristol’s two Lectures;
you ought to be gratiﬁed to ﬁnd such a coincidence of ideas. I am
glad that Dora does so much housekeeping for you; it is good for
you and for her. I cannot see that the Parisian is so very dreadful;
it all seems natural enough to me. It is Mrs. Stroper’s interest to puff
and so she puffs. The expiring Parisian, which I see has another
transformation in its agony, and having pushed from ﬁve to six
sous and from six to ten sous, is now at three sous, has a good chance
to be caustic and the rich people, if they don’t like it, may buy the
paper or give it a sop. The price of an entertainment or a small
part of what she pays for her portrait, would secure the Parisian
body and soul, as far as it has any. But the little god business won’t
wash in the long run. . . . . It is rather strange that you should
have news of the cholera in Alexandria just when it has completely
ceased even among the pilgrims.

lVednesday The VVekeel went over to Karnak with us in the
7anuary 25, 1882 afternoon, Brugsch made sure that the little
temple was nearly gone ﬁve years ago and we
gave up the attempt to put together the few stones which had been
returned. Mr. Naville arrived Monday by the postal steamer and yes-
terday went over to copy the duplicate Cow Room which I discov-
ered last year. Brugsch has lately given on it a translation‘ which of
course differs widely from Naville’s. Naville wants to get some help
from the new text so that he may in turn ﬁnd fault with Brugsch and
this is the way translations grow better.

Thursday I met last evening at Aly Moorads an American
fanaary 26, 1882 photographer from Philadelphia, who is doing
Egypt in the Cook Steamer; he told me he had

made forty-eight plates yesterday. Maspero and Brugsch went over
and searched through the two-hundred foot hole the mummies were

I. H. Brugsch. "Die neue Weltordnung nach Vernichtung der sUndigen Menschengeschlechtes nach einer
alwgyptischen Ueberlieferung," Berlin. 1881.

IZI

