NOVEMBER 1890 TO MAY 1891]

stopped here, 34th year of Augustus, 6th of Thoth.” I found that
Abd el Noor died in July and went to see his house; his brother and
the cousin whom we saw fresh from the Jesuit-School in Cairo two
or three years ago, and a small son. A daughter was born the day
before he died. Their tarbooshes were almost black, only a faint sus-
picion of red.

30th We sailed on joyously nearly forty miles, tying up where I saw

the siphon work begun last year. La Fite, the contractor, was
away at Dishneh, making fantaiseeyeh for Effendina, after which
he came down in a felucca in the night to prepare the fantaiseeyeh
here. For the Khedive was to see the completed siphon. In the morn—
ing (thirty-ﬁrst) I got up the new streamer which Dora had sewed
from my marking out, a golden Hathor on a white ground, and the
string of ﬂags, ten old ones, and draped the boat with a piece of red,
white and starred-blue stuff I bought in Providence last Campaign,
ﬁfty yards weighing perhaps four pounds. Just as it was all up Ef—
fendina came along under our windows in a launch, looking rather
used up, but bowing long and low. Poor fellow, he has a hard time, all
the nuisance of being a ruler without the satisfaction of having his
own way. In the afternoon we went up and inspected the siphon and
the Greek wife of the Government inspecting-engineer Mr. Stent
gave us tea. She was a Cyprian true, of Larnaca where and in Smyrna
she had been at American Schools. She spoke fairly good American.

February I, 1891 We came on apace nor stopped until near the
village of Denderah.

February 2, 1891 At Keneh in the morning we got much mail from

three continents. Erman of the Berlin Museum
ﬁnds the Cataract Canal inscriptions‘ I sent him, equal in interest
even to the Famine Stele; he wants me to alter them a little to suit
his grammar. Eisenlohr has sent me a copy of the Baedeker for
Upper Egypt. It contains the list of Dragomen I sent him, Hassan
Speke leading. Nearing Qamoolah the Professor went on the sand;

 

I. For the Canal Inscriptions see J. H. Breasted, “Ancient Records of Egypt." Chicago. 1906. vol. I. pp.
190—192.

585

