OCTOBER 1881 To APRIL 1882]

vessels that way, but the travellers would not think they got their
money’s worth if they were not taken up the difficult way.

Then we sailed to the Temples on the Holy Island and saw again
the church which Mr. Fisk had cleaned out.1 The keeper showed us
Fiske’s circular letter which he seems to regard as his title to his of-
ﬁce and when Maspero took away two stones for the Museum, asked
for a receipt which should exonerate him to Mr. Fisk.

I spent ﬁve hours in comparing my Index with the bas—reliefs and
texts of the temples and then at last we said good-bye again to this,
the most beautiful as it is the most sacred of Islands. As we landed
on the Continent, Mr. Chapin and his ladies greeted me; they had
left their boat in the rapids and come pilgriming to look across the
water upon the Holy Shrine. They hoped to see Wadi Halfa and be

back at Luxor before we leave. Perhaps.

On the way back, the cameleer resigned and kept with the don-
keys. I steered my ship (of the desert) by the quarries and the obelisk
and made a wide circle around the town to the north. I was abreast
of the town in thirty—ﬁve minutes, which was a fraction less than
twelve miles an hour; the donkeys took just twice as long. I found I
could manage the beast quite as well as a horse and make him go over
places which would be hard for a horse unused to climbing.

Thursday Seleeb’s postal boat goes down at three, and

yanuary 12, 1882 Prince Henry2 is expected to-day. Said wants me

to go and see a stone, and I have some slight

memories of that sheepskin saddle. In two days we shall probably be
in Luxor and I shall hear from you.

Thursday After I closed my letter the little Prince Henry
january 12, 1882 came. The Bishareen made a fantaiseeyeh for
him; before they reached the sword dance he

went away and he gave them no bakhshish. I went over with Said to
Elephantine and harvested the pint of papyrus fragments my wo-
men had picked out from the mine. We got a few more ostraca, mak-

ing about one hundred twenty in all. Meantime Maspero entertained

1. Coptic Church cleared by M. Fisk. See H. G. Lyons. ”A Report on the Island and Temples of Philae"
(Cairo. 1896). p. 32 and Photo 110. 47.
2. Prince Henry of Prussia. the brother of the former German Emperor.

113

