[CHAPTERBIGHT

us but when the boat came down with him, said he had had fever
and been taking medicine. The Hotel parson had sent up to him to
get money from the Ramses passengers for the festivity, but he
did not believe in it. I told him I thought it wicked to make these
black fellows ﬁght against their own country and people. He
assented ......

fanuary 16, 1889 We rowed to Karnak in the afternoon, Judge
Lord McLaren with us and while the rest did the
Hall of Columns I selected two small palms for pots Lottie bought at
the Market. A woman appeared and said they belonged to Diab
Effendi. I sent Nefady to Diab’s house for a mattock to dig them up
with and went away for a little. Then she said to Osman: “What a fool
I was to say they were Diab’s.” On my return she said she was a part-
ner of Diab. I said I would take from Diab’s part and we took them.
Of one the earth about the roots was quite dry and I fear it will not
live, but Osman says he knows all about them and we can get bigger
pots at Edfoo and bigger palms at Assuan, the woman was appeased
with ten cents. This after the Ramses had gone down taking Bouriant
and Jerningham. Mme. Auber has been so set up by the riches gained
the Gordon year that she made rather a supercilious hostess and some
ﬁnding her grumpy went to the Karnak Hotel. Whereupon the state
of her health has become such that she must go back to her Doctor in
Cairo. Her devoted mother goes with her; she spoke to me about her
daughter’s decline with much feeling. And George and his new wife
are left in undisputed sway. Mr. Cook seems to be a man as quiet as
he 18 judgmatic. He may one day buy the Karnak Hotel; its Syrian
owner is now paying seven per cent. a month for money to carry it on,
and I think no more guests of the Luxor Hotel will be treated so that
they will go to it. That would only prolong the Syrian’s agony, a
wicked thing to do. The Rev. Greville Chester, anteekeh-trader, goes
to the Karnak; he gave the Luxor a bad name in the old Murray1
which you have. There is now a new Murray which is sold by Cook.
Chester is not allowed on the Luxor Hotel grounds, even on invita-
tion of a guest. After dinner we called on the Withers in the Timsaah,

 

1. Murray. "Egypt." 1880, p. 450: "Hotel. The only one at present is Cook's. The accommodation is not
good. and the cuisine poor and unsuited for invalids . . . and there are many extras which make it
dear."

504

