NOVEMBER 1885 TO MAY 1886]

from Aboo Gamb I found he had been so careful of this precious stone
that he had put it in the hair pot; I blessed him for his innocence.

On the way back I was an hour in the sanctuary of Seti’s temple at
Goornah and was struck with the prominence given in it to the local

gods and goddesses of Heliopolis.

Thursday . . . . . Aly Moorad showed me his mum-
?anuary 28, I886 mies and received his Leipzig stockings and in
the afternoon I went through the Temple of
Luxor with Philo, greatly to his apparent delectation. The demolition
of the French house has let in the light upon many interesting scenes;
its débris has ﬁlled some of the rooms two yards deep. Gayet,l of the
French school, was copying; Virey,2 the other French school’s scholar
is copying the famous tomb of Rekh-ma-ra in Sheikh-Abd-el-
Goornah, facsimile-ing it all with tracing cloth. He thinks he has
forty or ﬁfty days more work.

Friday I went with Toda to Karnak, he shooting pigeons

ﬁmuary 29, 1886 by the way. It is my ﬁrst visit this year. I

stopped to pick up a few notes in the Temple of

Maut, and then came to the great foot, all that remains of a gigantic

statue of Memnon.3 Since I last saw it somebody has quarried out the

least great of the toes. IfI were Maspero, I would have him put in
the army, a punishment here counted equal to death.

The puny mud buttress, put up against the threatening second
pylon, has cracked of? from it; it succeeds only in covering a part of
the inscription. It reminds me of the little child’s hand put up behind
you mounting the mountain in Capri.

The place loses none of its grandeur. As Toda said after his ﬁrst
visit “C’est insensé.” The little Mohammed who drove my donkey
over so many times ﬁve years ago is a tall Monsieur now; he told
me the other day that he had a nice little girl over the river and he
was afraid her cousin would get her. So he made haste and had the

1. Albert Jean Gayet, French Egyptologist 0856-?) started the publication of the temple of Luxor in
“Mémoires de la Mission archéologique francaise an Caire,” vol. XV. Paris, 1894.

2. Philippe Virey, French Egyptologist (1853-?) edited his copies of the tomb of Rekhmara in “Mémoires
de la Mission archéologique francaise au Caire." vol. V. Paris, 1889. See Porter-Moss. “Topographical
Bibliography." vol. 1. Oxford. 1927. no. 100, pp. 129—133.

3. Colossus of Amenophis III. Baedeker, "Egypt," 1929. p. 296.

357

