[CHAPTEREIGHT

for goommusesl thought it a good thing. The Dayr was rather pictur-
esque, but I do not care to climb up to it again. This they told me
was not the Dayr where the tombs Kitabe were. Mr. Alexander at
Sioot had told me that Kitaée was the good word and that Maktooé,
the only word I have ever heard, was very vulgar. So I climbed down
again out of their fortress and went on for half an hour to the other
Dayr, called Dayr el Adra on my map, “The Virgin’s Convent.” I
had been joined at the ﬁrst Dayr by a pious man named Hanna, who
said he had been to the tombs ten years ago with the Consul (really
twelve years ago with Diimichen) and that they had a ladder, which
I found would be a handy thing to have. The ﬁrst Dayr had four
hundred people, even when the Goommus was in Sioot; this one has
three hundred only, but it is far more a Castle and is built up against
the doors of great tombs, three of which are Kitaae, those of Tutu,
Nana and of a master of the Prophets of Khnum, whose name is con-
cealed by a brick wall. The interest of this place is that these are
the only known inscriptions of the Eleventh Nome2 and that only
three lines of them have ever been published. I found what Gods
were worshipped and in what proportion and that there was a temple
of Khnum in Shoteb, formerly called Shashotep and Shahotep. I
copied in these tombs, in another just south of the Dayr and in two
others one—eighth mile southward till the sun was low and then left
seventy or eighty lines to copy. While at work an old man appeared
and speaking as one with authority said the Pasha of the Anteekeh
had ordered that none should write down these writings. I told him
there was nothing he could do for me and that he might go. A certain
Girgis eagerly showed me the places as if they belonged to him. We
returned to Dayr Reefa, called also Saaleh, in thirty minutes, to
Dronkah twenty, to Stabl Antar twenty, to Sioot ten, in Sioot ten, to
Seven Hat/20m ten, total hundred minutes. Dﬁmichen calls it three
and a half hours from Stabl Antar, and it was for us going.

High up on the top of the mountain above Dronka is a Sheikh’s
tomb, Omar says the tomb of Sheikh Saeed. Saeed was a watchman
along the river, a good man. He was the slave of a man named Sul-
tan, whose garden Omar showed me. Now Saeed so loved his master

 

I. Goommus-Arch-priest is the head of a Deir or monastery. See J. Georg von Sachsen. “Neuste Streif-
zﬁge durch die Kitchen und Kl'o‘ster Aegyptens." Leipzig. 1931, pp. 10-11, and Fig. 16-23.
2. F. L]. Griﬂith. “The Inscriptions of Sim. and Der Rifeh." London. 1889.

484

