[CHAPTER TWO

But Sunday, Tanyos, the Copt soldier (all our sailors are soldiers;
they belong to the Army of the Sea) and man of all work, whose
home and family are here, came quickly saying that his child had
been stung by a scorpion; could we do something for it. M. Maspero
proposed that he bring her; then he said she was married. So I got
ready my hypodermic injection apparatus and charged it with a dose
of permanganate of potassium and we went. After clearing out a
crowd of assembled condolers, the woman’s shoulder was bared and
the poultice wiped off; there was not much inﬂammation and they
had made three little cuts through the skin. M. Maspero pinched up
the skin and I injected the dose, and we came away without seeing
her face. I went to Karnak again in the afternoon. In the evening the
Princes and Mr. Malet,1 their faithful guardian, went to see Mustapha
who while awaiting them insisted on showing me his preparations—
ﬁreworks, palm branches and lanterns colored. He gave a concert of
instrumental music, but as they waited only two or three minutes
and were forbidden to see the dancing girls, he was quite disap—
pointed. I hear he attributes their neglect of him to M. Maspero’s
having poisoned the mind of Mr. Malet against him.

Today I went to Medinet Abu for the ﬁrst time this year. It is
a world of itself and will be a wonderful place if M. Maspero can,
as he hopes, clear it of the Christian rubbish which now drowns it.
It will cost a great deal of labor, too, to undo the mischief of Mariette
who has covered about one—third of the victories of Ramses III on the
north side of this temple, just as he has those of Seti I on the north
side of the Temple of Karnak; it was done simply because it was
easier for the Arabs to drop the debris there than to carry it ﬁfty
feet farther.

Again the Princes came about and Ahmed told me that they could
not have the dance last night. I went about with the little slips that
I spent the summer making till I was tired; then over to old Kha—
leefeh’s house. They cooked me scrambled eggs and hot shortcake
rather heavy and gave me milk to drink. Mme. d’Estournelles was to
have gone with me and ridden on a camel but her eye forbade.
Khaleefeh is to bring me from the Oasis next fall the best mummy he
can ﬁnd there and the best tablet, not that I want them, but the

 

1. Sir Edward Malet. English Consul-general. succeeded by Cromer.

I44

