DECEMBER 1880 TO APRIL 1881]

10. Cut in the sides are about a dozen long niches as in the cata-
combs for bodies. In the rear is one beggarly tablet drawn in red and
corrected in black for Apu and his brother whose name is lost.

I I. The man’s name is gone but his wife was Aahmesnoferu and

his daughter Sebeknoferu.

Thursday morning I set out for the temples said to be up in the val-
ley. The mouth of the two mountains over which there is a special
Hathor here, or perhaps it is only an epithet for the City Goddess
N ekheb. I found a mile East of the modern village a little sandstone
naos-temple perhaps ﬁfteen by twenty feet built by “Handsome
Staoo”l in the time of Ramses II; he is called Prince of Ethiopia. It is
decorated only inside with offering and adoration scenes to several
gods mostly undistinguishable principally through the King. Saw
Thoth’s ibis beak and a serpent-headed goddess called “She of the
Region.” The place of honor, the rear wall, has an adoration of Ra-
Harmakhis by the Handsome Staoo and an assistant. This fronts
East and one hundred yards to the North of it against the mountain
side one mounts a handsome stairway with a heavy brown stone rail—
ing on either side to constructions which were a small temple; a ten-
foot tablet cut in the rock, apparently of the same handicraft, in
which Ramses gives libation and incense to Ra—Harmakhis and
Nekheb. The prayer which borders it and which parallels Ra-
Harmakhis and Nekheb with Amon-ra and Hathor, lady of the
mouth of the Two Mountains, is broken off just where it gave the
name of the founder. From the back wall of this temple Ptol. Phys-
con, or somebody in his time, excavated a tomb in which there are
long religious texts in bad condition. The decorations are of Ha—
thor’s heads and his ugly cartouches.2

So far I had got when an Arab from the dahabeeyeh came to say
the wind was good, and without going further up the valley of this
Hathor and without revisiting the great enclosure of the old town
with its stone foundations of temples and huge masses of crumbling
unburnt brick, I went back and we sailed on with a rattling breeze. It
was so inspiring after the long delays that we passed Edfoo without
regret and went on in the night waking in the morning of this Friday

 

I. Setau. see G. A. Reisner,“The Viceroys of Ethiopia,”in the ”Journal of Egyptian Archaeology." London,
vol. VI. 1920. pp. 41—43.
2. Baedeker, ”Egypt," 1929, p. 367.

41

