NOVEMBER 1885 TO MAY 1886]

set up, the Temple had thirteen thousand priests and attendants, as we read in the
Great Harris Papyrus now in the British Museum. Fourteen centuries later, at the
beginning of our era, it was far gone to ruin, when Strabo’s dragoman showed him
the house where Plato had studied. Its many obelisks were carried away to adorn
Greek and Roman temples and today the sacred name of On may be read on them
in cities of past, and future empire, Constantinople, Rome, London and New York.

“The son and successor of Ramses II, ﬁnding the standard unoccupied, had his
own name and titles scratched thereon. They read:

“ ‘The Horus Sun, Bull of Victory, Rejoicing in the Truth-Goddess, King of Up-
per and of Lower Egypt, Ba-n-Ra, Mer—n-Amon (Throne-name of Meneptah), Son
of the Sun, Mer-n-Ptah, Hotep-hi-Ma, Osiris . . . .’ The rest is gone.

“The Colossus has arrived in Cairo and will be placed in the grounds in front of
the Museum facing another also of Ramses II, of the same stone and size, which dif—
fers from this by bearing a standard in each arm.

“I have just returned from a visit to the Colossus at Mitrahenny of which I spoke
to you. It lies about a hundred yards south of the great statue of Ramses II, called
Aboo-l-Hol. It is on its back in a hole and its sides are quite covered. So far as I can
see it differs from ‘The Idol’ only in being eight inches taller and in having the name
of Ramses II on the standard.

“I shall not soon forget our ride along the shore nor the four temples or palaces of
which we found the ruins at Aboukir. Please remember me gratefully to Mrs. Mid-
dlemass and believe me, yours at command for another discovery.

“(signed) Charles Edwin Wilbour”

KA'FR-EL-AYAT I have encouraging news for Victor. Mohammed
j‘amtary 11, I886 Yussuf, a boy of this town accompanied me in
my walk to the Post Ofﬁce, at the Station. \Ve

talked about many things and I told him I had a big boy named
Mansour, which is Arabic for Victor. He asked: “Has he a mous-
tache?” “Yes.” “Can he shoot with a gun?” “Yes” “Can he write in
French?” “Yes.” “Yz't/a pas/zaw—He’ll turn out a pacha!” he ex-
claimed with enthusiasm. I hardly think his words gained force when
he told me the Greek Benyootee kept cognac and mastic and he had
rather have one glass of cognac than two of mastic, and he once took
ﬁve glasses of cognac and it did not go to his head; it only made his
heart beat. We met a woman who offered ten boiled eggs for ﬁve
cents; she too liked cognac and booza (beer); Benyootee had booza
ingileez which was better than booza from Masr (Cairo). Maspero
warned me against trusting an Arab post master with letters; he says
he found some in the box at Bedresheyn which he dropped there
three months before. I had a talk with this post master and saw him

343

