DECEMBER 1880 TO APRIL 1881]

commemorated the birth of Caesarion, this triad having been com-
pleted, as Champollion says by Julius Caesar. There was a magniﬁ-
cent sunset on the glassy waters and the palms against the golden
glory of the sky repeated their wondrous poem. Thursday the
twenty-seventh we still tracked all the sleepy day; it was lotus eat-
ing indeed. At night we had not reached Erment; Ghebel Gurnah
still commanded our admiration. But what matter, are we not
happy? We take lessons in talking Arabic; Elsen shoots and writes a
little; I read over the“Geographical Dictionary”1 for the nome we are
passing, and the copies Champollion made of the temple which now
as wharf and sugar factory helps to pay the interest on the uniﬁed
debt; we have excellent breakfasts and dinners.

Saturday Yesterday there was wind, a little and so we
7anuary 29, 1881 triumphantly passed by Erment and Tuphium
and the Gebelein and Asphynis till the wind
deserted us in the afternoon three or four miles below Esneh. It was
not quite so sleepy as the day before but still the sleepiest life I
have ever seen and after sunset behind a range of red mountains,
the mountains changed to deep purple and the palms stood against
it so as to make a picture which I have never seen attempted in the
salon.
This morning our team has been out on the bank and now at ten
o’clock we are stretching out our hands to Esneh where the Crew-
Roman temple has waited eighteen hundred years, modern as it is.

Monday Two miles beyond Esneh tied to the Bank, a
yanuary 31, 1881 South wind hindering tracking.

Saturday we reached Esneh at noon and I went
to the temple after a look at the Ghawazeez who greeted our arrival
from the bank and whose quarter lies between us and the town. The
temple, now deeply buried, but excavated inside and kept by a
guardian, is only a Pronaos of late Roman time, built on the facade
of a Ptolemaic temple. There are twenty-four columns each having
a scene of adoration below and twenty-six lines of continuous text

I. H. Brunch. ”Dictionnaire géographique de l'ancienne Egypte." Leipzig, 1879—1880.

2. Ghawazee or dancing-girls. See E. W. Lane. “Manners and Customs." 1898. pp. 383-388; E. Isambert.
“Itinéraire descriptif. historique et archéologiquc de l'On‘ent." 2nd part. Paris. 1881. pp. 208—212.
Abbas-paella sent the dancing-girls in exile to Esneh.

35

