[CHAPTER ONE

But as the inner rooms were mostly covered with Nile mud to pre-
vent the effect of Pagan sculpture upon Christian monks and but lit-
tle of this has been scraped off, I cannot begin to make a complete
copy of this temple; M. Maspero must clean it off, if it be true, as I
heard on Monday that he is Mariette’s successor. This from Mr.
Wiedemann who told me that a German gentleman told him that
Brugsch told him. The French Vice-Consul for Khartoum, M. Vois-
sion, who is on his way up to his post, told me to-day that he was
morally certain that it was so, that Maspero was sent from Paris for
that purpose, but that it had not yet been ofﬁcially announced so far
as he knew. This will not, I think, affect the School, which is installed
in the Boulevard Mehemet Ali as I see by an Egyptian paper. Four
nights we slept in the tent, coming to know the temple well, and six
days I worked on it, going up yesterday by donkey from the daha-
beeyeh to which we returned Friday nigh t. Yesterday we breakfasted
and dined with Mr. and Mrs. Young and to-day they breakfasted
with us here; then I transferred my trunk to the steamer. Mr. Elsen
started rowing down the river and we rode out to the old quarry
where the great obelisk still lies, split out, but waiting to be fashioned
and inscribed.1 It seems as though the workmen might be away on a
strike. I think I could spend a winter in a tent in Philae very com-
fortably without exhausting its hieroglyphic interest. Well to under-
stand the other well preserved temples, Dendera and Edfoo, this
must be cleaned and Esneh dug out. This trip will have cost me
twenty precious days but it has given me fourteen days of dahabee-
yeh life, four days of tent life, the Cataract, a ﬁve—mile desert ride
from Philae between ten and eleven Saturday evening and some
knowledge of Philae, El Kab, Esneh and Arabic. This morning I went
to the telegraph ofﬁce and sent a message to Luxor for a room. The
ofﬁce is half an hour away on the west bank, and the many ofﬁcials
tried to get me to send it in English and could not open their safe to
give me change. But I saw the message off, got my Arabic receipt and
then a man came with me to Assuan to get the ﬁfteen piastres. Alto-
gether perhaps it took two hours. ’Twas very funny and worth the
time. You can do almost anything with these Arabs if you only wait.
Meantime Mr. Elsen went to Philae on a donkey and came back with

 

I. See R. Engelbach. "The Aawﬂn Obelisk with some remarks on Ancient Engineering." Cairo. 1922.

44

