[CHAPTEREIGHT

story: Victory and retreat. I have a telegram that the Wilbours will
be in Cairo to—morrow, whether two or three I do not know. But so
much is a good thing to know.

Deeeméer 23, 1888 Breakfasted with the Newmans at the Hotel;

Sundays he works mornings only. Aboo Gamb
brought me some armlets of black glass, found with a pair in bronze
of old pattern. Somebody thrust upon me a faded ten-cent specimen,
which turned out to be a Khopesh with the cartouche of Amon-hi-
Khopesh—f upon it, a new thing to me. I bought of Mahmood Le
Deed some Semaina pots, ﬁgured and with hieroglyphic ornamenta-
tion. The three stones which he got at How are Coptic. So my stele is
unique. Soroor painted my felucca. Yesterday, I am told a man came
up homewards from Keneh with two slaves whom he had presented
as ordered at the Mudereeyeh; they told him they wanted no more.
Great rejoicing here.

December 24, 1888 I worked on the east and north propylons at

Karnak. Crete was over, better. I told Aly one
day about the Government giving contracts, the stone to be taken
from the Great Pyramid. He said that was very bad, for the pyramid
was in the Koran which said the world was centered by it. Thus—
the pyramid like a Semolino dish, and the world to it like a wire
screen cover. I asked him what chance he had to know about the
Koran. He said that in summer, if he has no work he goes to some of
the many places where it is read. After a great man dies it is read for
fourteen days. In the Mosque of Sayidna Hussein it is read continu-
ally, there being relays of four readers each. His twelve-year-old boy,
Mohammed Aly, knows half the Koran, was at the Chapter Rahman
when he came away. When he gets back to Cairo, Mohammed will
know it all and he will buy him the whole book for ﬁfty piastres
(two and a half dollars.)

December 25, 1888 Insinger had invited me to Xmas dinner with

him and with Mr. 81 Mrs. Murch. This morning
he sent to know if I were sick; they had waited an hour for me. I
answered I knew he was a Pagan, but yet supposed him not so much

496

