NOVEMBER 1885 TO MAY 1886]

Florence, who is travelling with them; I suppose that Mabel or Lulu
must be interested in him. Abd-el-Megeed shows me papyrus I had
seen in Gurnah, for which he paid two or three times what I would
have given. One I had not seen; it is encased in the pedestal of a
, wooden statue. He said he had paid ten pounds for it and I being his
friend, he would only ask me ﬁfteen pounds. It is probably religious
and of no value to science. Sayce claimed as the sole merit of F. Cope
Whitehouse‘, the American who has found a mare’s nest in the Wady
Ryan, which he maintains is Lake Moeris, that he has discovered
the lost half of the Papyrus of the Labyrinth”, the piece that I fac-
similed at Nettleham Hall near Lincoln while you were in America, I
think in 1877.

LUXOR The anniversary has come and I have been to Kar-
March 2, I886 nak; I went to Karnak yesterday. I may go to-
morrow again. It ends not. We are waiting at

eighty-thirty o’clock about the table for Maspero to come over from

Sayce’s dahabeeyeh; then we shall dine.

Mr. Cox came down with the Consular steamer Sunday, spent
yesterday here and left this morning. I saw them in the afternoon and
then Mrs. Cox came for me to (hiatus for dinner) look at some an-
teekeh before she bought it. Aly gave Cox two mummies which he
will send to the Smithsonian or somewhere else. He made a little
speech to Maspero, who had to respond, over some champagne, while
I slipped out with Mrs. Cox, who seems the balance wheel of the
family.

Guy Lussac too, was down from Erment yesterday to meet his
mother-in—law and a boat load of Director—Generals. All have gone up
to Assuan to-day. We talk about staying a fortnight longer. Aboo
Gamb brought me a little sandal three inches long yesterday and a
bit of Demotic papyrus. Toda said adieu and went away with the
Consuls. A good boy, who will come to Paris some day.

I. F. Cope Whitehouse. The Raiyan-Moen's and the Ptolemaic Maps. in “Proceedings of the Society of
Biblical Archaeology." vol. XV. 1892—1893, pp. 77-86.

2. F. Cope Whitehouse, “Five hieroglyphic inscriptions completing the Papyrus of the Fayoum" in “ Etudes
archéologiques. linguistiques et historiques dédiées a C. Leemans." Leide, 1885. pp. 83—84; see R. V.
Lanzone. “Le Papyrus du Lac Moeris." Torino. 1896; P. E. Newberry. “The Amherst Papyri." Lon-
don, 1899. pl. XV-XVIII and pp. 44—46.

373

