[CHAPTER TWO

that; she had to write her letters and read up. And she told me what
books she had read, ﬁve or six good ones. She quite took my breath
away. She was doing the world so fast. Miss Mason seemed to me a
dreadful fossil, preserved by some uglifying process from mediaeval
times; I should not want anybody I liked to like her. The Southern
girls thought I must be Southern because I spoke slowly; it is a long
time since I have heard so distinctly the Southern peculiarities of
speech; all brought me their purchases of antiquities, and of course
they were all good and when we awoke this Thursday (March 16,
I882) morning their caravanserai had departed.

Thursday morning Said and I made some bad paper stamps in the

Temple of Amenophis here in Luxor and after-
noon I saw Mr. and Mrs. J. Wilson Patterson in their dahabeeyeh
and Consul Mustapha who wanted Abd-er-Rasool to make a state-
ment before the Mudeer; and Abd-er—Rasool, who told me that Gen-
eral Stanton, an Englishman, some years ago bought two papyri out
of the now famous tomb and seven years ago an American about
twenty years old who was in a dahabeeyeh with only his wife bought
another, and that he was afraid to make a statement unless he were
brought before the Zaptieh and compelled to; and he wanted to be
compelled to. Mrs. Patterson, who isn’t pretty but is engaging, has
made a lot of sketches in color and says when she gets home she is
going to learn to draw.

Friday and I am 49. I have celebrated the day by going
Marc}; [7, I882 across the river to the Dog--stele1 at Kom-el-Akhal
where Haleemeh lives; then I worked three hours

in the Temple of Goornah; then to the house of old Aly Kamoory, the
best maker of false things here. He showed me the copies he had made
from tombs, and antiquities and he draws not badly; he was much in-
terested in my map and he gave me a very pretty little statue, the
ﬁnest piece of modern Egyptian art I have yet seen. This I suspect
will have been my only birthday present. Then I went to breakfast

 

I. The dog-stela of King Antef—‘a of the XI dynasty with the pictures and the names of four dogs: M.
Hilzheimer. ”Dogs" in "Antiquity." December. 1932. pl. XII. pp. 419 and seq.

I48

