[CHAPTERFOUR

garden we know on the river. We are to start in company with Guy
Lussac tomorrow, which will be useful if one gets aground. As we go it
will take us say one week to get to Bedresheyn and another there to
copy a lot of graves opened at Sakkarah. Then I shall want a few
days in Cairo before tasting the sweets of the Mediterranean. The
number of days will depend a little on the quantity of Khamseen we
have. Mme. Maspero gets on ﬁnely reading English and her collec-
tion is growing much faster than mine, mainly from gifts. She seems
now quite well and is happy in having a woman to talk with.

W ednesday We left Luxor at dawn having received the visits of
March 26, 1884 adieu last evening and were ready to donkey to
Keneh at ten o’clock. Then I was accosted by a
young lady “On hospitable thoughts intent” who told me she had
seen me at the American Consul’s at Luxor one evening when she
was dancing there. I could hardly be polite to her, for I had to ﬁnd
the house of Heras who Sheikh Aly told me had the original of a
Greek chariot medallion of which he sold me a bronze copy. But
Heras had sold it and had nothing else and even the Copt Girgis
had almost nothing, so near that I could leave with him only a
dollar and a half. Another has a head of Jupiter Serapis pyramidal
and bad but old, which I offered two and a half dollars for and he
wanted ten dollars. Maspero told me in the evening it was offered to
him and he proposed three dollars. Do you wonder that they call us
by the name Howaga, Shopkeeper? Afternoon while Maspero settled
the boundaries of the temple grounds at Denderah, I compared one of
the texts of the relics of Osiris. Mariette printed all about it, but it is
very hard to read. I was just going round to the other text on the
other side of the temple roof, when a man came for me; it was time to
go. So that waits for next year; it is so easy to put things over to next
year here. Everybody expects to live forever as Egypt does. Guy
Lussac and his colleague Kelly dined with us. Kelly is a thin old
Irish gentleman, who was consul ten years in Milan and is very po-
lite and kind-hearted. Guy Lussac ﬁnds it dull though, showing him
about.

298

