[CHAPTER TEN

teen pounds would buy it if you have a fancy for it. Professor Sayce
and his host, Sir Charles‘, came in the afternoon for me to dine with
them and Daninos, who also had left a card for me. He told us much
about his Meydoom excavations in Mariette’s time2 and thinks there
is a great necropolis there. Also that there is too much water for my
Delta Excursion now. Sayce shows the effect of his illness and his
voyage; he needs to be fed. All asked anxiously about you.

Friday the twenty-eighth I came to Cairo; Abdoo was waiting. He
has a place but prefers to come with us. Little Ahmet, the guide, has
since told me that d’Aubigny’s secretary gives Abdoo three pounds a
month and would keep him twelve months in the year, but that
Café expenses in Cairo make the boat much to be preferred. Outside
were the Rais, Oorooshwan and Abdallah. I have since seen Nefady
and his brother Moorgaany, Arbab, Sheikh Ahmed and Salaheen. The
Rais’ brother is also about. Showolly is said to be at Farshoot. John
Cook is here; Mills not yet.

Rostovitch and his new wife, white and nervous, a taller Mme.
Guy Lussac, were on the Sindh. At table here at Shepheard’s, where
Sayce asked me to keep a seat for him, I found Mason Bey, opposite
with his six-days married wife, a widow Shreve who came here last
winter with his cousin Mary Lee. She is fat, fair and I forbear. He
seemed another man without tarboosh and with orange-buds in his
button-hole. At the head of our table, as of the Consulate is Mr.
Grant, nobody having yet been appointed. He gets the full salary
and is willing to stay. 50 am I, quite. I went down to the Seven
Hat/207': and found everything about as we left it, the inside paint all
newly washed with soap in Moorgaany’s best style. The deck has not
leaked except a little in the raised part aft. Sayce and I found Petrie
in the evening, as he was to leave in the morning for his winter’s work
at Meydoom3, where he hopes to show us opened tombs in a month.
Sayce has brought with him from Daninos some large fragments of
the charred Greek papyri, I saw at Zagazig last April. He ﬁnds them
registers of accounts probably public from their great quantity. He
has also the publication of the rest of the Tell el Amarna cuneiform

 

I. Sir Charles Cookson, British Consul at Alexandria. see A. H. Sayce “Reminiscenoea." London. 1923. p.
212.

2. See letter of March 31. 1882.

3. W. M. Flindera Petrie, "Medum." London. 1892.

570

