[CHAPTEREIGHT

was here years ago some Bedaween from the mountain brought one
and his father bought it of them. By day he was like a dog; by night
as big as a donkey, his hair a foot long standing out straight. His
jaws were muzzled and they dared not loosen them, so the hyena
lived but three days. When they are wounded they will not die until
they bite something, even if it be a stone: so she must be sure to kill
him at the ﬁrst shot.

y'anuary 7, 1889 The loaded riﬂe lay undisturbed all night. As Aly

Moorad said afterwards, the hyena smelt the
powder. We sailed up to Luxor; Aly saluted us with many guns and
we took our old place, looking up the creek, now almost dry and
quite dammed. Mr. Cook’s red—headed representative took a lively
interest in our position, said they expected four steamers together and
would I move forward about ten feet. As I wanted to, I saw no rea-
son why I should not accommodate him. The Ramses came up at sun-
set. We had visits from Aly and Ahmed Aly and Bouriant and Mr. 8:
Mrs. Bloushﬁeld, fellow-travellers with Lottie and Dora from Mar-
seilles.

yanuary 8, 1889 I aired my eight ﬂags; the big one that ﬂoated in

Compton for Harrison, now ﬂoats for the Battle of
New Orleans; there was a God in Heaven once and he may show
himself to these Britishers again some day. A letter from Professor
Fiske says he will be up the sixteenth on the S eti. I sent down an in-
vitation to Judge Kinsman to voyage with us from Luxor to Assuan
or from Assuan to Luxor. He can only leave his court three weeks.
Insinger thinks my eight ﬂags lost on the British; they do not read
about that battle. But I explained it to Abd e1 Megeed and he
straightway began to preach it to the people. Dora and I went to
Karnak and saw Bouriant’s diggings‘. I showed him another good
place and corrected Brugsch on the north propylon very much.
Afternoon came pretty Esther McLaren and her German mother

 

I. U. Bouriant. ”Notes de Voyage." 5 4. A travers les temples de Karnak. in “Recueil de Travaux." vol.
XI. 1889. pp. 149—156; H 7-H. ibidem. vol. XIII, 1890, pp. 153-173.

500

