[CHAPTER FIVE

Maspero is amusing himself over the meals of the Grébauts. First a
cup of black coffee to get up by; then a cup of chocolate; then café au
lait with us; then a little walk down the island to a place where they
get a litre of milk apiece; then breakfast. Then in the afternoon an-
other walk for milk or some fried eggs or such like to keep them alive
till dinner, which is not always so late as to-day ......

LUXOR ..... We are beginning to think of leaving
March 5, 1886 here next week; the water is getting very low, but
Maspero wants to see a beginning made in the
demolition of a new lot of houses, including Mustapha Aga’s. I spent
the morning on Lepsius’ book at Karnak and another morning will
ﬁnish it, all but the part which has been carried to the Louvre. Of
the three dinners since I wrote, one was given us by the Italian Con-
sul, a Copt,Wednesday, and the other last night by Dyab, the reis of
the anteek-eh this side of the river. He has a new house, a gorgeous
one for Karnak, beside the temple of the hippopotamus mother of
OsirisJAfter the dinner which was served on Aly Moorad’s dishes,
Aly’s son Ahmed setting the table, there was a ballet with much
singing and Rovwayhas’s fiddling. I began to like the music better
than the dancing, but I had more than one nap during the perform-
ance. Maspero used his eyeglass much of the time, as though he
were going to put the dance into his history.

Grébaut has strained his eyes and has given up hieroglyphic work;
he can only do a little photography, enough to amuse himself and his
sister.

Morel, the school “mission”-ary, has visited the French mission
school, but not our Missionaries’ School; I met our missionaries tak-
ing a survey of Karnak on camel back two or three days ago. One
white camel had a little brown baby ten days old who ran his nose
about me and my donkey; too young he was to know his place.

We are to dine Monday night off Aly Moorad’s plates again in his
own house. The Karnak Hotel has no guest now that Mr. Chester
and the three English ladies with him are gone. Its garden has grown
beautiful; it gets the cool north wind from a wheatﬁeld and to the

 

I. The Temple of Apet.

374

