DECEMBER 1882 TO APRIL 1883]

pha, brother of Ismael. She is a very handsome widow, speaks Eng-
lish very well and receives gentlemen. Her youngest sister F atma will
have a grand wedding soon. Tewﬁk’s wife, whom I saw the day of the
Mahmal, is getting to be quite rotund. After crossing cards twice
with Charmes I saw him ......

A very pleasant call on Mme. Brédif. Mme. mere was laid up with
a bad cold. They have a moderate house in a very ﬁne and ﬁnely kept
garden, and M. Brédif has gathered together Arab adornments with
taste and profusion. They wished me to go to the Ball on the ﬁfteenth
and join M. Maspero at Bedreshayn, where he expects them to be.
I have been down with Mr. Pomeroy to call on Maspero; he had
come up to call on Fred. Charles, his only absence from the Museum,
I think, since I have been here. So we called on Dr. Grant and Mrs.
Grant gave us tea.

Brugsch tells me Fred. Charles did not care to come to Egypt and
suggested the English might think he had come to see their battle-
ﬁelds, which he does not think battleﬁelds at all. But he prevailed on
him to come and see the monuments. Then they will go to Sinai,
Palestine, Greece and the Greek Islands and Constantinople. Com-
ing through the earth works at Kafr-ed-dawarl, E. Charles said they
were not formidable; a little shrapnel would drive their defenders out
and that the true defence would be to post the infantry among the
high reeds along the line, from the cover of which they could ﬁre on
an advancing enemy almost without danger.

yanuary 8, 1883 This morning I went with Mr. Garwood and some

of his friends to the Museum. M. Maspero told
me Mme. had received your card and was much pleased; they
thought you had done it yourself as it was hand-painted. In the after-
noon Comanos took me to see the fat young Ibrahim Pasha, the
richest man in Egypt and after we three had abused the British for
three hours he showed me his papyrus. It is the ﬁrst end of the Tod-
tenéuc/z of the Princess Isi—em—kheb, whose mummy was found with
the rest at Deir el Baharii’; it shows that she never became a queen,
because it has no cartouches. Abd-er-Rasool told me last winter Ibra-

 

1. “After the bombardment of the forts (of Alexandria) Arabi retired to Kafr-Dawar, a few miles distant
from Alexandria." Earl of Cromer. “Modern Egypt." London. 1908. vol. I. p. 300.
2. G. Maspero, "Les Momiea royales de Deir el Bahari." Cairo. 1889. p. 577 and 516.

187

