FEBRUARY 1884. TO MAY 1884]

down in it so that he could not again strike out for freedom. We came
quickly down, waited for the Khedive to cross the bridge before we
passed it, and while at breakfast were tied up under the wall of the
Museum.

Monday To-day I have spent in the town looking at antiqui-
April 14, 1884 ties and doing my chores. . . . . . The Consul
General looks weak and told me his wife was hope-
lessly worse and he must try to get her back to her mother’s in Amer—
ica this summer. I ﬁnd nobody I know at Shepheard’s except the two
sisters who came to Major Haggard and from whom he has gone to
the wars. They say that Clifford Lloyd,1 the Irishman on whom Duf-
ferin’s mantle has fallen, has, not content with dummifying Nubar,
effectually dummiﬁed the whole government by quietly spending all
the money for the year, so that after a month or two at most, no em-
ployees can be paid.

Tuesday Pagnon, Cook’s head man in the ofﬁce, would sell
April 15, 1884 me a ticket for the P. and O. steamer yesterday but
he could give no place. So I wrote to Mr. F arman to
try for me in Alexandria. He had sent to me to look out for antiqui-
ties; if there was any special bargain to be had he would come up and
Mrs. F arman wished there to be a special chance. They tried Cairo
for a fortnight last month and she likes it better than Alexandria. I
spent most of the day on the boat and in the Museum going to town
only to get some money. I compared and corrected the stele of
Alexander II and the excommunication.2

Wednesday I worked in the Museum on the Piankhi stele and
ﬂpri! 16, 1884 went to look at dahabeeyehs with Mr. Insinger, who
wants a small one. We examined eight of various

excellence in divers ways; one had electric bells. Three or four had
water laid on and of one the upper deck was laid out like a palace
with ﬂowers in pots everywhere except where there were easy chairs,

1. ”Mr. Clifford Lloyd has been sent to Egypt to reorganize the Department of the Interior." Earl of
Cromer. “Modern Egypt," London, 1908. vol. I. p. 378; vol. II. pp. 482—488.

a. G. Maspero. “Guide to the Cairo Museum." Cairo. 1910, no. 645. p. 193. Stele of Alexander 11; ibidem
no. 693. p. 215: Stele of excommunication.

311

