[CHAPTER FOUR

her legitimacy. I found only three of the twenty-four tombs with in-
scriptions. Then we went into the basin of Der el Medeenet when I
had not quite ﬁnished mapping at ﬁve o ’.clock It was trying to my
ankle and to me generally, for I have not taken much exercise in

these ﬁfty-three days. But

Friday after a long night’s rest I am all right, though I am
March 7, 1884 not at work, unless you ﬁnd these ﬁve pages so hard
that you suppose they were hard to write ......
The bed found by Todros has been brought in; it is quite unique and
will when set up be a good feature in the Museum.1 Mme. Maspero
has trouble again with her bronchiae, coughing, mucus and a sense of
suffocation; it troubles Maspero a good deal. But she is amused by
looking over her new antiquities. I am gradually accumulating, but
not one tenth so fast as Said would wish. The Egyptian Gazette comes
with the death of Faber, who was my room-mate over two years ago,
and whom on the voyage and afterwards at Cairo I liked very much
and wrote you about. Though not more than thirty, he was the
manager of the Anglo-Egyptian Bank. He was human more than he
was English, and not at all British.

I went over to Karnak this afternoon and my contractor Ismaeen
had done all he could but the Keeper of the Temple, Dyah, would
not let him turn the big stone; he wants to report it to Maspero as a
ﬁnd of his own. Two correspondents, Ollivier Pain of the Figaro and
young Rochefort, have just gone up the river; they will go to the
Mahdi, if they can, without knowing any Arabic.

Saturday I went over to Karnak at eight and worked till noon
March 8, 1884 in the Temples of Maut and of Apet.2 It was hot and
after breakfast I could sleep a little.

S unday D’o, d’o, do In the evening Aly Moorad gave a
March 9, I884 fantaiseeyeh at which I was the only American.
Roowayhah had gone to Erment and the music

was not so good.

I. Probably the bed described in “Notice des principaux monuments exposes au Musée de Gizeh.” Cairo,

180$.p.333.no.1172.
2. M. Benson and Janet Gourlay, “The Temple of Mut in Asher.” London. 1899: pp. 370—379. plates XX-
XXII. The squeezes of the Blocks of Piankhy. which Wilbour took exist in his papers at Brooklyn.

286

