[CHAPTER THREE

Wednesday We rode one and one-half hours along the river to
March 7, 1883 Koom Airl whence there was rumor of a temple, a
pleasant ride on a good donkey through a pleasant
land. When we came to the town nobody knew anything about any
temple. Mursheedt seized a man and strapped him two or three times
across the back; he knew then, and took us to a street where, stamp-
ing on the hollow ground, he said it was. I looked in a neighboring
houseyard and saw some temple-stones in a pile; the women said the
man who took them was in prison. Then they told me the temple
stones inscribed were under a large mound of bricks which they
showed me. The Mudeer of Esneh had it thus buried to preserve it.
Before doing so he took some stamps which show it to be of the time
of Hadrian. Maspero decided to let it lie under the bricks, which will
have a tendency to keep it down till somebody is enough interested in
Roman Egypt to uncover it. After breakfast we start for Edfoo. It is
warm, our ﬁrst breakfast on deck. Then we 1011 and look at the banks
we know so well and talk and read a little; pass the Koom we came so
far to see; pass the little pyramid2 which foiled us last year, where
some women ﬁlling their water—jars recognize us; wonder if the poor
girl for whom I prescribed the milk-cure is yet living; pass the greater
fortress of El Kab and the lesser fortress of Hieraconpolis and when
earth and sky are all aglow with the red life of the dying day we hail
the towers of the only perfect temple, the mighty sanctuary of Edfoo.
The necessary games of dominoes have been played and Mme. has
vivaciously charged Vassilli with “tricking” for the hundredth time.
Piehl has played his game of chess this time losing it to Guy Lussac
and then winning it after it was lost. To-morrow we spend here; all
take a walk through the temple; Piehl and I spend the day there.
We alone do not “despise the Basse Epoque.”

A DAY IN EDFOO A Saggyeh drones on the bank and the stars
Thursday shine in the Nile. The games have been played
March 8, 1883 and the cigars smoked. The smoke is not good
for Mme. and M. Charmes and not pleasant to

me. I take refuge on deck. Piehl and I spent a long day in the temple.

 

I. Kom Air-soc Murray. “Egypt." 1881 p. 507: seven miles above Esneh. See Jollois et Devilliers. “De-
scription d'Esné et de ses environs. Temple au Nord d‘Esné." in “Description de l'Egypte.” Paris. 1831 .
vol. I. pp. 384—392.

2. El Koola.

228

l.‘ J l l lEl’ T _.' 9+ ‘ 5'. ll l 91 44,3. l

