OCTOBER 1881 TO APRIL 1882]

Sunday After closing my letter we went up to the perfect
yanuary 8, 1882 Temple and while Maspero guided the party, and
sat and talked and went back to the steamer and
rested, I compared the little slips of my index with the pictures on
the walls and took notes of interesting things not copied, till I could
see no longer. It was almost dark, so near it, that various Edfooians,
taking advantage of the dusk and my unsuspecting nature sold me
for seven piastres, three pieces of anteekeh which Said assures me
were made by Aly Sedeed at Luxor. Maspero stoutly maintains their
genuineness, and surely they are ugly enough.

Monday We came up to Silsilis and there for two or three
yanuary 9, 1882 hours I placed my little slips about on the Cave
temple which was started by Horemheb and eked
out by the Nineteenth Dynasty men. The quarries are enormous and
give a stupendous idea of the construction of the Old Times. Here I
think I found the explanation of the perpendicular grooves you see all
about sandstone temples near the ground; they were made in whet-
ting tools.1 The tools employed here were cutting and broad—bladed
and the grooves are broad and shallow, while in most of the temples
they are narrow and deep. Hitherto I have been told that they were
made in rounding the ends of the long sticks many Arabs carry, and
again that women make them for the same purpose for which they
jump over the ugly little statue of Isis at Aboo Hommos.2

Then we moved on to Kom Ombo and I indexed there. The full
force of the river is now directed against the temple and nearly half of
the enclosure is already washed away. The buildings, for there are
three, ought to be at once excavated and copied before the Nile en-
tirely resumes its own, but the Mudeer says he has no money for it,
and if somebody wants to spend about two thousand francs for labor
and do the copying, he will give them the permission. The little por-
tion left of the small temple can hardly last many years longer, if it
does one.3

1. These perpendicular grooves are generally explained as being made by the natives scraping the old
stones to collect some dust to prepare magical drinks.

2. jumping over antiquities as a fertility rite. see W. S. Blackman. "The Fellahin of Upper Egypt." Lon-
don. 1927. pp. 97—99.

3. The Temple of Korn Ombo was not cleared until 1895. by J. de Morgan.

III

