DECEMBER 1880 TO APRIL 1881.]

tuary to some of the same and to Horus and Nephthys. In the inner
doorway is one of those stray inscriptions which Professor Dﬁmichen
has put into his Calendar-inscriptions without the slightest indica—
tion where he found it and which, being a hymn to Isis shows who is
the chief divinity of the temple. A similar hymn occupies a similar
place in the front doorways and over this Nekheb, the Goddess of El—
Kab stretches her protecting wings.l

Sunday evening To-morrow morning to Philae to camp two days.

Then down.

IN TENT IN THE COURT BETWEEN We came over the cataract in

THE FIRST AND SECOND PYLON OF a small boat Monday; the shoot-

THE TEMPLE 0F PHILAE ing has changed. Mr. Elsen and

February 9, 1881 I have been so busy taking notes

of the temple day and evening

that here is a mail day and no letter. Some papers just in tell of

terribly cold weather three weeks ago in northern Europe. I hope

you have managed to keep warm. We ﬁnd the tent life very com-

fortable though a few drops of rain fell to-day. Tent life is the way
to know the antiquities.

ASSUAN At last I am on the Postal Steamer turned to-
Sunday wards the North to start to—morrow noon. We
February 13, 1881 went up to Philae Monday in a small boat over
the rapids which they call the First Cataract. It

was a wonderfully interesting scene, the water dogs black and red
who pulled us over the hard places, the rocks rounded by water,
sometimes thirty feet higher than it rises now, the hurry scurry, the
four hours tug at the oars and ﬁnally the matchless scenery of Philae.
We found the tent pitched between the pylons and breakfast waiting.
The tent life was very comfortable and I worked all the days and
some of the evenings verifying and extending the detailed description
of Champollion, trying to ﬁx the places of all the inscriptions I re-
membered to have seen in print, and to note the character of the most
important of those unprinted, and these last are the most important.

 

I. "Catalogue des Monuments et Inscriptions de l'Egypte ancienne." Vol. I. Vienne. 1894. pp. 47-57.

43

