[CHAPTER FIVE

There had been a gale Sunday and Monday, the wind was high so
that when we went out of the harbor we had a dying sea, but I kept
my window open all day and the port-hole at night and found that
the lattice-system almost abolishes the pantry odor.

Thursday I have hardly been on a more comfortable boat. At
April 8, 1886 table I get a little talk with the Dalmatian captain,
and on deck with polyglot people. There are Greeks
who shake their heads at war and English who doubt whether it will
be safe for them in Greece. The deck passengers are a picture, mostly
going to Smyrna and Constantinople. One studies diligently a Turk—
French conversation book. There is one black woman carefully
tended by a white man. There are Turkish women, quite white and
hardly good-looking but with intelligent faces; these are tented
apart but come out betimes to take the air and to be seen. The-Eng-
lish engineer tells me his stories of Turkish and Egyptian service.

We stop in the afternoon just around the northeast corner of
Candia at Sitia, a little yellowish brown town with a telegraph, to
make sure that the Greeks did not declare war yesterday. For we are
Turk and liable to capture by Greek cruisers or elevation by Hellenic
torpedoes. We send a boat to the stone quai of this Egyptian mud
village petriﬁed. The oars drip with a viscous, ropy liquid, some
such molten turquoise as we see about the Blue Grotto. A crowd col-
lects on the wharf, our boat returns and we steam away through the
islands and into the night.

Friday I come out to the barren mountains of Attica, Aegina
ﬂpril 9, 1886 on the left, Salamis ahead. Great names ﬁll the air.
Over the hills appears the Acropolis, between Par-

nassus and Hymettus. We come into the Piraeus, still the Lion's
Port, though the Christians have carried away the rune-ribboned
Lion to the Arsenal at Venice, where our picture shows him guarding
the great gate. We see vessels of all ﬂags but our own, war vessels of
many ﬂags. A man puts the card of the Hotel de: Etranger: before my
eyes, takes my things and me in a boat; a custom’s man pinches my
papyrus and, despising the call-bell of the railway, we take a large
carriage with poor horses over the dusty macadam. It has not rained

388

