[CHAPTER FOUR

steamed south. I awoke in the room which I occupied at the end of
the ﬁrst voyage. It is about six feet by twenty and opens into the
salon by two doors. So I have about twice as much room as the
others who are, as we sit at table:

 

 

 

 

Photographer Atchitect
E. Bnt'oscn BAUDRY
M. MME.
1 DULAC Bounoom
Arabist Artist

The day has been delightful. Egypt quite reappears. The luxury of
life, the air we breathe, the warmth we feel, the sights we see, re-
minded me of that intense delight of existence which the great Sarah
embodied so marvellously in Froufrou.1 Toward sunset, there were
clouds and some showers in the west but the eager air dried the drops
long before they could reach the thirsty sand. We watched the
changing hues and their reﬂections in the mirroring Nile until they
faded out into the night and now after dinner and two hours of
dominoes, they are up to see the moon take up the wondrous tale. I
wish we had all come in spite of the British.

MINI EH This day we have ploughed the old river seventy
[Wednesday miles more through the old nomes of Anubis,
February 13, 1884 have passed the sanctuary of Hathor, to which
the “Convent of the Cow” has succeeded and
have left the “Convent of the Pulley” so far on the other side that no
naked monk could swim out to us. Again we have felt the luxury of
living though it has been cooler than yesterday and is quite sharp
this evening under the sparkling stars.

Monday Said was at Bedresheyn to see me and the Captain and
Kursheedt, the Arab head of the Museum, and all conspired to have
me take him so, as Maspero thought a Bedawee might be useful in
case we suspected anything anywhere against us, I took him and he
will hunt antiquities for us.

Yesterday talking with Tanyos, whose sister I treated for scorpion
in Luxor you remember, about the Luxor people, he told me the rea-
son why the son of the German consul Todros has never married. He

1. "F rou-F rou.” French comedy by Meilhac and Halévy. played by Sarah Bernhardt. the famous French
actress.

264

