NOVEMBER 1887 TO MAY 1888]

sailed him. But the wood of the rudder-post has cracked very much,
so much that the big stick twists ﬂexibly with the strain and to-day,
without “Puff-puff,” we had gained three miles on Aboo Shanab
when we failed to make a short turn to the left and went on to the
sand for half an hour. Still he is far away. As Oorooshwan says, our
rudder is as the Has/2451f: was last year. But we know how to set it
right.

I have enjoyed my wide bed though I am rather lost in its ampli-
tude four feet, eight inches. I can put it up on edge, but I doubt that
Mohammed can, and space is no object this year. I have not ventured
to put up many hooks yet, but leave them to the powers that will be;
they are lying ready, some dozens of them. The new Paris curtains
furnish the two common rooms enormously and orientally and the
thickness of the Bon Marché carpets provokes admiration. I have
unpacked nothing, and so did not give my visitors tea one afternoon
in the handsome cups; I promised them that they see the tea-set
afterwards. My books are arranged in the book-room, Egyptology on
one side, Travel in Egypt on the other. Aboo Shanab is reading this
side and at a rate which will soon use it up.

Moorgaan, the cook, is so black that the other day I saw the sun-
shine reﬂected from his forehead just as it would be from the bottom
of a well polished brass kettle. I think I have never eaten better
cooking. And he makes things last. By putting my whole mind to it, I
am able to detect the remains of a yesterday’s dish resurrected by a
change into something rich and strange and generally the last state of
that substance is more toothsome than the ﬁrst or the second. Moor-
gaan has as many different hashes as his fellow in color at Sheldon
Springs, Jim, had different names for his one hash. I have no occasion
to hint to him what I want, his only regret is that he has not more to .
cook for.

Mohammed, the waiter, seems quiet and efficient; he will not keep
the crew from sleeping by his chatter, as Aly did. He can read and
write Arabic and I teach him Arabic words while taking my solitary
meals. Some of them he recognizes. He knows all about the Luxor
folk, being of that ilk. He thinks much of blood, being of the family
of Aboo Haggag,l his mother of the inferior family of the Shegarat to

I. Yousef Abou 'l Haggag the sherkh of the Louxor mosque; for the Haggaghieh. his descendants. see G.
Legrain, “Louqsor sans les Pharaons." Brussels, 19:4, pp. 86—88.

443

