NOVEMBER 1885 TO MAY 1886]

Sunday I called on the Wiedemanns who were rejoicing indeed.
For Margaret is betrothed and the yellow-haired ofﬁcer: von
Domarus, Premier Lieutenant in Kgl. Séichs. 7 Inf-Regt. “Prinz
Georg” No. 106 Mochern, was standing up with her in the parlor,
receiving the congratulations of callers. The betrothal was only four
days old, indeed is not yet ofﬁcial, the oﬂicial consent being not yet
received. They all seemed very happy. Alfred has married a rich
wife in Bonn and the other brother has his Copenhagen braut visit-
ing him. I dined with them next day and they were much interested
to hear of Egypt and about Lepsius’ books, and Margaret gave me a
commission to buy her six silver bangles, in Cairo with drawings and
speciﬁcations. I told Frau Rothe of the betrothal and the Fraulein
asked, “Is then the Professor so very rich?” It seems that ofﬁcers can
only marry rich girls. They knew von Domarus. He had been there
to tea when he was a student of law ﬁve years ago. He was a good
man, with some property, not so “ﬂotte” as many ofﬁcers. Probably
he would in ﬁve years rise to be a Major and then retire from the
army and live inactively on his (and her) income. The Professor took
me to-night to an extra-comic opera done by a singing society of stu-
dents, where we ate a outlet and saw these antics (I send you the
programme and text of the parts sung) at the Professor’s table. The
thing was very funny, even what I could understand of it. The
Emperor Augustus cannot get rid of his fat by Dr. Ennius’ water
cure and Eutyches by suggesting dancing and exercise supplants
Ennius as doctor. Ennius gets his revenge by almost making Euty-
ches marry Lydia, not knowing that his own daughter Ennia loves
him. Eutyches runs away and is brought back by force at the end,
regains the Emperor’s favor and Ennia's hand. None of the girl boys
behaved well. A sensation was the entry of Augustus upon the stage
on a tricycle. There were many local hits, some of which the Profes-
sor explained. Two seats left of me at our table was a straw-color
haired boy they call the Crown Prince; he is a student here.

VIENNA At last the Leipzig Lagerhaus Lepsius labor is
December 21, 1885 over and I am well content. I have bought
two hundred eighty-six or two hundred eighty-

eight numbers of the Catalogue; they would not stand still last night

329

