DECEMBER 1882 T0 APRIL 1883]

beyond the little Temple Stau—an built in the time of Ramses II, and
just before turning a corner of rock which hides it from that path,
we came upon more than a hundred and ﬁfty small inscriptions
which show that this was a fashionable pilgrimage.1 Here are the
names of the magnates of centuries. Stern has given many of them in
the Zeitsc/zrift and Lepsius a few in the Denkméi/er. They begin in the
Sixth Dynasty. This Nekheb, the Goddess of the South, the Lotus
Goddess, as Naj (the Papyrus Goddess of the North), was potential
in her day. Here was the great fortress a mile and a half about, the
massiestwall,2 I judge, this side of China. Everywhere where the King-
god is seen, she or Horus of Edfoo, but she mainly, as the mother-
bird stretches her wings over him. As the White Woman she wears
the White Crown of South Egypt. She was the Hathor of Ro-an,
this Wady up which we went, white with saltpeter; it was too hot for
us to think it snow. And the people were gathering it to eat; for salt is
a government monopoly and clear. This salt is much talked of in the
religious texts for its wondrous cleansing virtue. The little pilgrimage
temple at the end of it is called that of Amenophis 1113 but really, as
he says, it is of his father Thothmes IV and he has only “made it
beautiful.” This too quite moderately for I had time to note every-
thing on its four walls before we must return—everything except the
scrawls, Hieratic, Demotic, Coptic, Arabic and European all sorts,
which show that to see one’s name in print is no new ambition. The
interior decoration was handsomely painted; how, a side which
L’Héte copied in colors you may see among his papers in the Bib-
liothéque Nationale. From it one sees the fortress wall framed in the
mountain sides of the Wady.

Tuesday We steamed down to Esneh betimes and I copied in

March I3, 1883 the Temple portico a text of which more than half

the hieroglyphs were rams,‘ what Victor would call

“stints in hieroglyphics.” The god of the temple, Khnum, is hardly a

god by himself but only the soul of another god, soul being written by

I. L. Stern. “Die Cultusstatte der Lucina." in “Zeitschrift filr agyptische Sprache." vol. XIII. 1875. pp.

65—75 with 2 pl.. A. H. Sayce, “Some Old Empire inscriptions from El Kab” in "Proceedings of the
Society of Biblical Archaeology." vol. XXI. 1899. pp. 111-114.

2. Somers Clarke. “El Kab and the Great Wall" in “Journal of Egyptian Archaeology." vol. VII. 1921. pp.

54—79 with plates.

3. J. J. Tylor, "Wall drawings and monuments of El Kab—the Temple of Amenhetep." I II. London. 1898.
4. Lepsius “Denkmaler.” Text. vol. IV. Leipzig. 1901. p. 19.

233

