[CHAPTER FIVE

good bed. We are sitting now, ten P. M., around the table in the
boat. The parsons party which got a discount of twenty per cent at
Corfu because they were a family, are tussling with the agent to get
it from here to Taranto; they fail, but are taking the needed receipts
to carry it up to some higher court. Most of the time of these parsons
has been taken up since I have seen them in conjectures about what
trains they might catch or miss and why the boat does not do this
or that, and how these Italians are swindling them.

Thursday I wake in Taranto after a good sleep the wind being
May 6, 1886 offshore. The parsons’ growl was heard outside before
I got up; I had two hours more in bed; they two more
at the station. Leaving my stuff there, with sick Otto Muller and his
wife who bears in form and voice and ways a striking resemblance to
Mrs. Schoﬁeld, I go to two or three impossible places and then break-
fast at the Leone di Venezia, eating good oysters and fat peas and
looking on the smooth sea, now no longer a terror. At eleven we took
train along shore to Metaponto and then started across the instep of
the boot towards Naples intending to stop at seven at Potenza, half-
way. As we drew near we saw snow and that the towns were on the
mountains, which reminded me of the horrors of Cortone and Or-
vieto. We had them. The brigands of the octroi made us get out of
our wagon, which knocked our heads off with some cunningly devised
arrangement in the roof, into their freezing mud. It had snowed up
there, three thousand feet over the sea, in the morning, and you can
guess how cold those tiles were in the Albergo Lombardi. But there
was a carpet in the room with the brass bedsteads and there were
braziers and bacinos and we had a good dinner and my bed had a
second bacinata to make up for no carpet, and

Friday this morning we found ourselves happy that we had
May 7, 1886 seen the drowsy old place. The snowy air braced me
up to a ticket for Rome and we came down the won-

derful mountain railroad merrily, down to the plain at Eboli and
Buttipaglia, whence we went to Paestum, and dirty Salerno. It had
snowed at La Cava yesterday and spoiled much good eating for this
summer. The Mollerin was in Milan during the German war and

404

