[CHAPTER FIVE

BEDRBSHAYN Last Monday evening I was up late with Judge
Monday Kinsman, whom I ﬁnd very companionable. He
j’anuary II, 1886 likes Harriet Prescott and her husband, Dick
Spofford, so much that he has to speak a great
deal about them. They have just received a legacy of some seventy-
ﬁve thousand dollars and he hopes they will be able now to realize
their dream of seeing Egypt. He thinks Hawthorne far the greatest
writer we have yet had, and you may judge him kindly by that.

Tuesday morning I started for Cairo at eight. It is always a reve-
lation to make this journey. You shall know it only when you come to
see it. I went immediately from Shepheard’s to the Museum and M.
Maspero marched me in triumph about its rooms. It is really won-
derful to see how much the additions of last year have changed the
physiognomy of its halls. More than half of them I would hardly
recognize at ﬁrst and one, the Christian room, is entirely new. Al-
ready it is becoming necessary again to double the building, and as
soon as the house on which they are now at work, is done, that will be
in order. . . . .

Wednesday morning Said was at the door. He had come over
from the Pyramids in the night, and was very sad when he found that
I did not need him for the journey. I bought a few things of Abdallah
and Sleeman from their stock in the house of Mohammed, but I ﬁnd
that there are not many good things for sale. Tano has almost noth-
ing. He has been obliged to change his stock to suit the friends of sol-
diers, and his antiquities have given away to carpets and Arab
knicknacks.

I went out to Heliopolis Thursday with my two hundred thirty-
ﬁve-pound American, whose card reads: L. S. Ware, Rédacteur-en-

chef, “The Sugar Beet,” Philadelphia (Etats-Unis).

The Sugar Beet appears four times a year and he writes it all. Some
day he will show me a copy. The lone obelisk is more lonely now; two
years ago I saw the corner of the pedestal of its companion, but I
could not ﬁnd it again. The garden is lovely as ever and the jasmine
about the Virgin’s Tree wondrous sweet. I send you a leaf of the Tree
itself, a sycamore; Gemmayz’, the wicked inﬁdel calls it, like any
other Gemmayz’! At the Ostrich Farm are the three stones which I

340

