[CHAPTER THREE

ments covered with Coptic inscriptions have been examined. One of
them is a list of the books belonging to the community which occu-
pied the Tomb of Sebekaa after the Ptolemaic and Roman Egyptians
had covered his sarcophagus with their mummies.

Monday I started for Biban el Molook again. Kaleefeh
Feéruary 12, 1883 was waiting on the Island with donkey and
camel. I did not like his new saddle and don-

keyed except across the west branch of the river which we had to
ford, the ferry-boat being withdrawn. Here the camel was enough
better to make up for the saddle, the water being well up on the
donkey’s body. I found M. Lefébure alone, his three scholars not
choosing to work to-day. I worked in my tomb till he sent for me to
breakfast. His Ibraheem had gone over to the postal steamer and for
a hot dish he had cooked some beans with tomato sauce, and very
good they were. He had been copying the long text high up on the
sarcophagus room of Seti: it runs all around the room. I had found
two copies of the same in two papyri in Leyden. I worked on my
Black Book and came back donkeying to the river where Kaleefeh
had the camel with the old saddle and the white beast paddled me
through the river raising high up her great splay feet and then over
the sands of the Island to my little man’s boat, which always waits
for me. He told me that ﬁfteen more Howagas had come by the Pos-
tal boat to the Hotel, all but two Americans. On the way over I went
to see Antefaa’s stele1 which I had heard was broken. Maspero told
me he had had the culprit in prison for a month. I heard it was a
Copt, Bisharra, whom I saw on a donkey two days ago ......
To-day a man who was guarding it said that Bisharra’s servant
broke off two pieces for the sakieh down there. He had the pieces
now buried with the rest of the stone. The hieroglyphs were not in—
jured, only the man and “a dog and a half.” This Eleventh Dynasty
has been unlucky since we came up last year. Mohammed Abd-er—
Rasool got the oldest known obelisk, that of Antef, down to the river
to be taken to Boolak; the earth beneath it caved in and Osiris
claimed his symbol for his own. Mohammed was to have reclaimed it

 

I. J. H. Breasted, “Ancient Records of Egypt." Vol. 1. Chicago. 1906. p. 199. note A: "Mariette left the
stele where he found it. to be taken by a fellah. twenty years later. and broken up for use in a SAkieh.
Two years later some of the fragments were rescued with much difﬁculty by Maspero.”

214

