[CHAPTER ONE

key formerly accepted, he got the answer “I’ll eat it myself for that
price.” Eggs which used to be ten for a cent are now only ﬁve or three.
Chickens have gone from ﬁve to ﬁfteen cents. Turkeys here excellent
from ten to thirty cents, and fat sheep from two or three to six and
seven dollars. Formerly half a dozen would come to the dahabeeyeh
with sheep and poultry and vegetables; now they wait to be asked.
A fellah with a camel and gamooz (buffalo) is rich. The money value
of these is sixty dollars to eighty dollars apiece. Horses are not much
prized; they raise mainly the Syrian and not the Arab which need
more care or desert life. The Bedaween one meets on the edge of the
desert in tents have Arab horses and wear arms most of the time,
even the children. The women among the fella/rem work little in the
ﬁelds except in watching the ﬂocks. They bring the drinking water
from the Nile; even where there are wells the water leaching through
the nitrous soil is brackish. I see as many men as women spinning.

Friday The wind came in the afternoon of Tuesday, our
February 4, 1881 god Shu from Esneh with the feather on his head,
and we tied up at night below El Kab, with

thanks to him.

Wednesday morning February 2, Elsen started to shoot and I for
the Grottos in the Hill to the North. Here is History. Side by side are
three or four tombs of the most famous of Egyptian annals. There are
many of the tombs in the southern slope of the ﬁrst range. But either
the inscriptions are destroyed in most or they never were inscribed; I
notice only those in which I found something to read.1

I . Thentees, some kind of priestess of Nekheb, the vulture goddess
of this place, famous as representing the South of Egypt. She has left
only a tablet outside her tomb, a prayer to Ra-Harmakhis and to
Osiris who dwelleth in the West mountain, to give all good things to
the spirit of her, the daughter of the occasional priestess of Nekheb.

2. A'a/zmes, called he of Nekheé, to distinguish him from the greater
Aahmes. A tablet once in this tomb has been taken to the Louvre.
The inscriptions on either side in the doorway are in Lepsius; they
read in. Outside the door on the right is a part of the inscription put

 

1. Murray. “Egypt." 1880. pp. 509—510. See J. J. Tylor. "Wall drawings and Monuments of El Kab: The
Tomb of Paheri." London. 1895; "The Tomb of Sebek-nekht." 1896; “The Tomb of Renni." 1900.

38

