[CHAPTERsrx

the electric bells for about twenty-ﬁve dollars. Incongruous but

handy.

Miss Gorst and her father go to-day, back to England. She has
been very pleasant to me, able, noble, brilliant. Her father, who sits
for Chatham, sympathized with me in the solace which comes to men
from such daughters. He told me that she was his private secretary
and gave much good advice in answer to his letters from his constitu-
ents. She came and sat by me last evening as I was reading this of

Sadi:
“One day in the bath a friend put into my hand a piece of per-

fumed clay. I said to it: ‘Art thou Musk or Ambergris, for I am
charmed with thy delicious smell?’

“It replied: ‘I was a piece of worthless clay, But I sat for sometime
in the Company of the Rose.”’ Of course I showed it to her. Mrs.
Goodison had put the book into my hand, a privately printed book of
“Persian Poetry for English Readers.” It is she who loves to talk
about her Windermere neighbor Ruskin, and says that much as they
appreciate him, the acidness of his nature sometimes makes him hard
to bear. She thinks it fortunate that he is writing his own life and no
ghoul of a Froude may blast his name. She leaves with her husband
and Mr. and Mrs. Collins of Glasgow, this morning in the dahabee-
yeh Zanoéia. Mr. Borthwick, I39 Piccadilly, another M. P., was ﬁrst
to start up the river. His boat, the Sesostrir is hired for a hundred and
twenty pounds a month. She is only an inch narrower and six inches
lower between joints than ours. Insinger said he stood, gun in hand,
ready to answer his salute, as is the custom of the river, but the
Britisher passed in grim silence. It is the way, that the boat sailing up
shall ﬁrst salute those at rest or coming down.

I have told you about Virginian Mrs. Blackie and her two Scotch
girls. The one who was reading “EPH PHA THA, Why Jesus
Sighed,” took interest enough to ask me about my going to Church
yesterday. I have introduced them to Mr. Cardwell, our Consul-
General; they go up the river in the next Cook boat on the fourteenth
and we shall ﬁnd them at Luxor.

412

