FEBRUARY 1884. TO MAY 1884.]

Monday I went to the same temples at seven; the morning
March 10, I884 hour is the best. My donkey boy Mohammed hav-
ing found fault with his thirteen dollar and his
mother’s fourteen-dollar donkey took me with the thirty-dollar
beast of which he owns half and Mahmood the other half. Last year
he paid his cost; the British soldiers were up then and used to take
many short rides; this year he will not earn so much, but it will be
proﬁt. Aly Moorad gave me some details of his farming; the tax
consumes the wheat crop and the seed has to be taken out of the
other half, this on the land which pays ﬁve dollars or six dollars an
acre animal tax. On the land which pays eight dollars an acre tax
they get a corn crop after the wheat. You can imagine what the peo-
ple who do the work are paid.

Tuesday ..... Mme. Maspero’s bronchiae having
March 11, 1884 been vigorously treated with sinapisms, the afreet
goes down into her knees, as yours does after the

party. In her case he comes back and she coughs a little now.

We don’t worry about the Mahdi at all here; he at Obei'd cannot
affect us much here; look on the map and you will see it is a very long
way ......

This morning I went over at six-thirty A. M. to Karnak. It is
cooler, but some English there thought it very hot. They walked
about and I rode which makes many degrees difference.

I do not and do not try to conceal my views on the disastrous re-
sults of the British gobble. And there are English who see it as clearly
as I and feel it more keenly.‘ God isn’t dead.

Villiers Stuart has another big book this year which he has in—
ﬂicted on Maspero at much cost of freight. It contains the result of
the social mission for which the English government gave him six
hundred pounds, and the Egyptian the use of a steamer last year.
He is an Irish M. P. and Gladstone pays his support thus. But how
these books come to be I cannot tell. For they are full of nonsense.

And somebody pays for printing them.

Guy Lussac’s steamer has just arrived and is tying up.

 

1. “Egypt after the War."

287

