OCTOBER 1881 To APRIL 1882]

into which were dropped three great granite stones when the place
was sealed up. These have been broken by ﬁre and a hole made in
each just large enough for me to pass. Crawling through these one
after the other, you come to a long crawl and at last come out up-
right through a stony embrace which is just my size. Then you climb
up a funnel-shaped well and see once more the light of day. Outside,
the pyramid has quite crumbled and is only an immense white
mound.

WEDNESDAY Daninos came down from Feshn to spend the day
April 5, 1882 and we took the opportunity to inspect the work from

Sakkarah to Dashoor. First a view of our work, then
breakfast in the mouth of the hieroglyphicless pyramid between it
and the step pyramid, then a visit to the mouth of the Pyramid of
Unas, “Fairest of Seats” it was called. Then we went to “Fair Abode”
the pyramid of Pepi, and looked down through the broken top to the
sarcophagus and read with my glass the words on the gable end of
the Golden Room which contained it. Then to the white mound
which was the pyramid of Neferkara Pepi, the one which they said I
could not enter. I had nothing else to do and tried and found it a
looser ﬁt than the grip of Unas. There are two places on the way
where the roof is a chance dome of stones as large as my head, which
simply have not fallen; how they hold heaven only knows; they do,
or they did till we came out. These are the only dangerous spots;
the interior rooms, the rafter stones, are ﬁrmer much than those of
Teta. This pyramid contained a much longer text than the others;
the half that remains of it is nearly three times as long, M. Maspero
says, as the complete text of Unas. By measurement I make it about
three times in all. Then we went by the Mastaba el Faraoon to
Dashoor, to that brick pyramid of which I gave you a drawing on our
voyage up. Sixty boys, including a few men, have been, like so many
ants, carrying brick by brick, to the sides and throwing them over
until a sort of angular crater appears in the side of this black volcano
descending in the centre to within twenty feet of the desert rock foun—
dation. No trace of a corridor as yet; it looks like Koolah. Mr. Brugsch
brought me Mr. Lay’s letter which I enclose, and a Harpers’ IVeek/y

with some pictures of the mummies. Brugsch is Bey at last, in spite
of his Consul-General, thanks to Wolf.

165

