[CHAPTER ONE

waste which separates Helwan from the river and to the west over
the Pyramids of Dashoor and Sakkarah veiling the descending sun.
The green before us was inviting and in a great grove of palm trees
with clover around, I sat down at three o’clock to the lunch which
had travelled with me from Cairo. It was hardly opened when a
young woman came, ostensibly to complain that the donkey was
spoiling her clover, but really to take my tumbler and get me some
Nile water. She was Aida, she told me, the daughter of the Sheik of
Bedreshayn. Soon her sister appeared and on Ameen’s request, went
with her water jar to the Nile for him. The sister Amneh was not a
beauty; it was easy to see why she was not married though her
father had sixty acres of land and a thousand palm trees. They both
had the contracted look of some of our Indians. They wore long light
blue gowns from neck to ankle, without fulness and a dark almost
black, thin blanket over head and shoulders falling about to the knee.
Aida held hers so as to show the three rings she wore on one hand.
Ameen said we could buy such rings in the Mouski for a piastre.

She showed me her rings and her earrings two in each

ear; I commend this style to any who are fond of ear-

rings. She had three or four necklaces, two bracelets and

a little tattooing on her right arm and that was all she

wore. Her hands were clean, a rare sight for a common

Arab. Amneh with her scarred face, her shabby clothes

and her second rate rings and necklaces was a strong

argument in favor of matrimony. Aida had been Aida
bint Zeynab till her mother Zeynab died, then she became Aida 0mm
Hassan (mother of Hassan) who soon appeared with sturdy claims
for bakhsheesh. Ameen explained to me, who wondered why she was
not called after her husband, that it was a “shame” for a woman to
speak of her husband or a husband of his wife; he meant that it was
revolting to the Arab sense of decency. He said the Sheik was very
rich and must have much money buried in the ground where his
children could not steal it from him. I gave them what was left of
our lunch and a piastre a piece; Aida tried to tell me how much
clover the donkey had eaten and spoiled but I could not understand
and so we went towards the station and they back to their ﬂocks.
Soon we were overtaken by Aida who said she was going home to the

26

