[CHAPTER TWO

little Dr. Lanier who came up to Luxor with me last winter, he heard
lecturing in the Johns Hopkins University and very enthusiastically,
about George Eliot, on his return last spring; the poor fellow is dead
now.

Monday We have waited for the postal boat to come and
7anuary 30, 1882 I hear its paddles.

At the Karnak Hotel is an old large Englishman
with white whiskers who with his daughter was at Nice and sat near
us. He recognized me, though I didn’t him, and she inquired after
you and Linnie and Dora whom she remembered well. I saw N ag-
yar’s wife the other day and she detailed to me his death. Poor wo-
man, she worked very hard to get the hotel built, much harder than
he and now it will probably be sold for the debts and if there be any-
thing left, most of it will go to his brother. I cannot understand how
she, a fairly intelligent and good-looking French woman, should have
contented herself with an informal marriage to a Syrian.

LUXOR TO KOOLAH We left Luxor on receiving the letters; I had

Monday two and three packages of papers. One of the
yanuary 30, [882 letters was only ten days old. The handkerchief
I ﬁnd I did not send. . . . . I have written

to Schiaparellil to keep the book; perhaps I shall come back through
Italy. I want to leave Egypt by the ﬁrst of April and it is not wise to
come straight North then. We stopped at Esneh for the night and

coaL

Tuesday We came up in the morning to Koolah. I looked
7anuary 31, 1882 for my passport and the receipt for my letter of
credit which I left with the Credit Lyonnais in

Cairo that they might send me money by post ifI should need it. I
discovered that they had parted company with me, just as we left
Esneh, too late to telegraph to Cairo. I suppose that in some climb or
crawl the envelope which contained them has climbed or crawled out
of my back trousers pocket. If some evil-minded person has got them

 

I. Ernesto Schiaparelli. Italian Egyptologist (1 856-1927). Obituary in " Journal of Egyptian Archaeology."
Vol. XIV. 1928. p. 181.

124

