[CHAPTER THREE

hear from a man just down will not take Khartoom, but strike the
river at Dongola, some hundreds of miles farther down.

HOOEE’S TOMB I went over to Qoornah and spent the day in the
Tuesday tombs. First to that of Hooee1 which Lepsius has
February 27, 1883 given several plates of. It is not far from Kalee-
feh’s house. He was at the market to-day, but
his daughter asked if I would not have some ‘fateer’—Arabic for
short cake, wheat and butter mixed and baked quickly and eaten hot.
It was too early. Hooee’s tomb is interesting but the colors are
fresher in Lepsius. Champollion2 and his copyists call him an Ethi-
opian prince, but he was not. He only brought such things from the
south as we shall see in Assuan plus a southern princess on a car and
a giraffe. Nearby was a tomb Kaleefeh had ﬁlled with chopped
straw. Luckily there was an inscription on the ceiling so that when I
crawled in and looked cross-eyed at the hieroglyphs above my nose I
could see that Kaleefeh’s predecessor in its ownership was one
Horus Khem,3 who was scribe of the soldiers of the King’s (temple or
palace) in West Thebes. Now there is a strong opinion that nobody
lived in West Thebes but those who worked the tombs and temples
but we do not ﬁnd that there were soldiers for other temples, so that
this inscription indicates a king’s residence here. Then I went east-
ward and Abd-er-Rasool, he of the bastinado, showed me some tombs
which I mapped and then I saw Shenoodeh’s half of some mummies
he had found in the tomb of Mr. Goodplan (Nefer—sekheru)4 and had
been dividing with Maspero, who lets them work at halves and then
it was time to come back.

Wednexday It was cold and I stayed in the boat and wrote
February 28, 1883 and worked out my notes of yesterday. After a
day of worming about under—ground one needs

rest and time to study results.

I. Hooee no. 40 Porter-Moss. “Topographical Bibliography." vol. I. 1927, pp. 73—77. Edited by Davies
and Gardiner. “The Tomb of Huy. Viceroy of Nubia in the reign of Tutankhamun." London, 1926.

2. J. F. Champollion. "Notices descriptives." vol. 1. Paris. a. d.. p. 177.

3. Tomb no. 221 of Harmin. see A. H. Gardiner and A. E. P. Weigall. “A Topographical Catalogue of the
Private Tombs of Thebes." London. 1913.

4. Tomb no. 296 of Nefersekheru. see R. Engelbach “A Supplement to the Topographical Catalogue of the
Private Tombs of Thebes." Cairo. 1924; K. Piehl "Inscriptions hieroglyphiqués . . ." Ile. Partie. Leipzig
1888. pp. 95—101.

224

