OCTOBER 1881 TO APRIL 1882]

I am getting to divide my indignation here between the Coptic
monks and Mariette. Every day in Karnak, as I go about with the
descriptions of Champollion and my notes of the texts published by
Lepsius and Rosellini, I ﬁnd that the most interesting of these texts,
which I wish to compare and correct, have been covered by the debris
of his diggings. If there had been a malicious design to hide every-
thing of hieroglyphic interest, the work could hardly have been more
effectively done. . . .

Our Consul Wolf had his dinner the twenty-second and among
the guests were the Premier and Araby Bey, now Araby Pasha and
Minister of War. Several consuls were there but not those of Eng-
land, France and Germany. They will not have much to do with
this restless, pushing Republican Jew. Sonneman, a member of
the Reichstag and Editor of the Frankfurter yournal, said here that
he was going to make a speech in order to wish for Germany the same
free government which Washington had left to the United States. I
sent you Barnard’s letter; but in reading it you must remember that
Riaz Pacha, whom Araby turned out, is Barnard’s particular friend. I
am with the Egyptians; they wish to get rid of the foreign leeches
that have fastened upon them, whose function it is to bleed every-
thing Egyptian, the Museum included. They have cut down the
ﬁve thousand dollars appropriated for diggings all over Egypt, to
three thousand dollars, while some of them are paid twenty thousand
dollars a year. What would English or American or French land-
owners say to a tax of six dollars an acre, such as is paid by the not
very rich lands I see from this deck? They think the Egyptians are
used to it like the eels.

I have just been over to see a young man in the old Hotel, H. W.
Vail, who seems to have had a sunstroke, has had high fever and de-
lirium, but is now getting better. Some Americans who were going
away to-day got the Consul to seal up and put away his valuables.
But I think he will be out in a few days. I got a line from Mrs. Moul-
ton this morning that the Cook boat which brought her up had tele-
graphed her it would be full on the way down, and it is so windy and
dusty she cannot stay, and the postal boats are taken up beforehand,
and she must get away. She is having a tough time of it, has been on

I37

