NOVEMBER 1890 TO MAY 1891]

holding “One Love, One Life,” or no. Its three volumes ﬁlled the
voyage; she reads about one-ﬁfth as fast as I. Mme. Grébaut had
found Romainville worse for her than Egypt, where Gizeh is vastly
better than Boolak. A portion of the palace had been cut OE by de-
molishing the intervening part, for them, Brugsch, Daressy, Ahmed-
el-Kemal and their Mohammed and his family. Mohammed was a
personage on the boat, ordering the music, playing the games, sitting
with his mistresses, often with a cigarette, as beﬁts a palace-dweller.
Mlle. Grébaut is growing like her mother in body and in conversa-
tion. M. Grébaut talked well, much to me, more to smokers. The
German governess of little Kathleen, poured out to them, in my
amended hearing, her woes; how she loved the French and hated the
English, how their aristocracy, whom she had served many years
swore and drank and knew nothing at all; how, applying for a place,
and being questioned, she heard a younger lady shout to a deaf elder
asking “About music?”—-“Oh, that is all right, she is from the
conservatory of Leipzig, one of the largest towns in F rance;” how
they were jealous if the children loved you and never treated you as
human, how Lady B. painted and lived on whisky and water, drunk
in private, and there was none for the governess, and so on. The boat
was dressed for ball and concert, but Neptune did not favor.

Thursday, the twenty-seventh, we came into port with the sun.
Hervé Bazille came on board and told me he was leaving Alexandria
that day to be the Secretary of Accounts in the Museum. Koor-
sheedt’s successor, a Turk recommended by the Khedive, is a
nullity and makes this place necessary. I have seen in the Bosphore
that its salary is three hundred sixty pounds. Towrest greeted me and
I glided through the Custom House, where the boys are expecting
you, and took my freight straight to the Gabbari station, six hundred
ﬁfty pounds, nine for a piastre. At the Abbat the old man’s face
gleamed; he afterwards asked me to let him know when you were
coming that he might meet you at the boat. Pappa had sold most of
his unsugared fruit and was expecting fresh; but it took ﬁfty days to
get it. An anteekeh man whose shop is on the other side of Cherif
Pacha several doors further away from the Place des Consuls, has a
chain from the same place as mine, but heavier, about thirteen
pounds of gold value for which he asks eighteen pounds; I think six-

569

