1891: “Wilbour is more than merely conversant with the results and
researches in the ﬁeld of Egyptology. He is a scholar in the truest
meaning of the word; a clear thinker; a conscientious critic and what
puts the crown to all the rest he is the most enthusiastic of our young
Egyptological recruits in discovering and studying unknown monu-
ments, especially inscriptions.” The German master emphasized his
opinion, after quoting a passage from a letter of Wilbour’s: “By the
above remark the writer once more shows his comprehensive knowl-
edge of the Egyptian language and Egyptian writing. With one
stroke he drives the nail home.”

One need add nothing to appreciations such as these from the most
prominent Egyptologists of his time. But I have the privilege of in-
cluding here some remarks which give a very vivid impression of
Charles Edwin Wilbour from the pen of Mr. Edwin Howland Blash-
ﬁeld, his son-in-law: “The constantly pursued object of Mr. Wil—
bour’s life seems to have been studying today that he might study
further tomorrow and having learned something thoroughly might
enjoy it thoroughly during the days after. Having obtained it, he
seemed willing to let others share and eveniexploit his knowledge
freely.

“The possession of it was his real joy, that and his consciousness of
its potentiality.

“Language as a written record fascinated him and occupied him.
There is a family story that when a boy and atop of a wagon load of
hay—with a latin grammar, he drove his wagon into a ditch. The
book, whether latin grammar or something else, stuck to him
through life, in his pocket, if the book were not too large. After Col-
lege he became a journalist, thoughts about language, roots and
derivations, ﬁlling in extra moments. The recondite appealed to him,
he considered Etruscan and the mural testimony of Mexico and
Central America. But he decided that Egypt offered a wider and
literally a more attractive ﬁeld. He said later: ‘I am thankful that
my work compels me to cross the Alps and Italy twice annually,’ and
at another time, ‘Greece and Italy are delightful but the moment
when I feel twice as much alive, comes to me when the Nile banks
begin to slide pass the dahabeeyeh from Bedreshayn to Assouan.’

“His perception of the value of time as a furtherance was intense.
When a young man, he was noted as a chess player. He gave up chess

IX

