NOVEMBER 1885 TO MAY 1886]

out but Harvey paraded us about the boys' class rooms; their sani—
tary arrangements are quite unsanitary. We liked Miss Thompson’s
girls’ school better. It was sweet and clean everywhere and though
the girls were sewing she had them sing and read English and
French for us. We saw their writing and drawing and all I think was
as good as we should ﬁnd in French schools; American girls would be
ahead in branches but behind in languages and sewing and embroid-
ery. They themselves were a picture, all shades from black to white;
some of the Greeks and Italians quite pretty. There are a hundred
ﬁfty girls and two hundred ﬁfty boys. Some of the girl scholars go in-
to the town and give lessons to native women who wish to learn and
to pay for it. The teaching in the schools is nearly all done by na-
tives; Miss Thompson is the only schoolma’am in the school. An-
other Yankee, Miss Smith, has a girls’ school near Abdeen Palace and
Miss Connor, who three years ago told me of her prayer meetings
in Boolak, now has a school there and rides a donkey to and fro
every day. Here too they have a Waldensian to teach French. Then
we went to the I mtz’tut E gyptz'en and heard President Maspero give
an account of his voyage. Schweinfurth followed with some account
of temple foundations in the F ayoom and then the Abbé Amélineau
rang the changes on Pakome‘, an old monk, whose only title to be
remembered by me is that he spoiled good hieroglyphics, he or others.

Saturday Maspero, Morel and I went to Sakkarah by train
ziprilj, 1886 and donkey. First into the Pyramid of Pepi II, a
rather tight ﬁt for me; Maspero thinks he is good for

four or ﬁve years longer. It had not been entered for two years and we
found it very much as we left it. Then we went to some tombs where
Maspero copied the names and I mapped, Babee and Zaoo2 and an-
other man, whose inscriptions Brugsch had stamped. Into this only
Morel was lowered, for the sensation. Then we went into the Pyra-
mid of Oonas, which is easy and then to breakfast in the house where
the rat holes of other years have been carefully closed. Then to the

I. Meeting of April 2nd in “Bulletin de l'Institut égyptien," vol. VII. Cairo, 1887, pp. 439—441. C. Mas-
pero. “Rapport sur les fouilles et travaux exécutés en Egypte pendant l'hiver de 1 885-1 886.” ibidem. pp.
196—271; E. Amélineau. "Etude historique sur St. PachOme et le cenabitisme primitif dans le Haute-
Egypte. d'apréa lea monuments coptes." ibidem, pp. 306-399; C. Schweinfurth. “Zur Topographic der
Ruinenstéitte des alten Schett (Krokodilopolis—Arsinoe) ” in "Zeitschrift der Gesellschaft fﬁr Erdkunde."
Berlin, vol. XXII. no. I. pp. 1-35 and 2 plates with remarks by Prof. A. Erman.

2. Babee and 230. see Porter-Moss “Topographical Bibliography" vol. III. Oxford, 1931, pp. 188 and 199.

385

