FEBRUARY 1884 TO MAY 1884]

ing a forty-dollar donkey while Maspero’s was a twenty-ﬁver and
Mme.’s only a twenty-dollar beast, according to Rooby’s estimate, I
detoured to see near at hand the two great stone pyramids of Da-
shoor, the southern built of limestone from Toora across the river,
and the northern of the ochreish rock of the western Gebel, whence
the Arabs call it the Red Pyramid. Both, since Vyse opened them
ﬁfty years ago, can be entered, but I had not time for that. The
southern is the Blunt Pyramid, the top being ﬁnished as though the
money had given out. On the Blunt Pyramid, which is as exactly
south of the Red and west of the Black pyramid as the Egyptians

could make it, most of the casing stone is yet in place.

I joined the rest before we reached the Mastabat el Pharaoon and
we stopped a little north of 1t to look at the dual grave of king 3
friend, Temple- master, Pepa and of king 3 friend, king 3 scribe facing
Pharoah, Baa. Then we went north to the ﬁnd. The ﬁve boats were
side by side on the richly decorated wooden cofﬁn of an untitled man
named Horus, but all had been taken out, for when the sand was re-
moved the walls of the vault began to cave in. Lepsius has some
fragments of similar cofﬁns in Berlin, but this is the only whole one.
Maspero thought it must be Sixth Dynasty from the neighboring
Pyramid of Merenra being only four hundred cubits away. The boats
all represent the mystical voyage to or from Abydos. In some the
dead man is lying mummiﬁed with prayers at head and feet, in others
he is comfortably seated and surveying operations. In the bow a
man is on watch and high in the stern another with upraised hand is
directing. There are oarsmen, or rather paddlers, for most stand as
they work. Before the mummy or seated man is a scribe reading from
a scroll, somewhat as Ahmed Effendi, the engineer on this boat, reads
Antar to Aly Bey, the Captain. As these bits of wood were not as
ﬁrmly in their places as they had been four thousand years before,
the small boys who carried them to the boat had to be watched and
my pockets were a hospital for the sailors who fell by the way. We
thought of the time when the same boats made the same journey re-
versed. And when we reached the steamer, Maspero was not content
to dine until he had carefully cleaned them all and put every one of

 

I. G. Jequier. "Fouilles a Saqqarah. Tombeaux de particuliers contemporains dc Pepi II." Cairo. 1929,
pp. 96—105. pl. XII-XIV.

307

l.‘ .1 l l lEl’ T 1' 91% ‘ 5'. ll l 91 44,3. l

