OCTOBER 1881 TO APRIL 1882]

Thursday I went to Karnak. I am following Champollion’s descrip-
tion about, verifying it and completing it and I discover many things
which nobody seems to know anything about, among the acres and
acres of hieroglyphs. It is a work which nobody is doing. Everybody
I see at work at all, seems to be looking not for a general knowledge
of what there is, but for some special thing about which he can make
an article. Bouriant almost conﬁnes himself to the heretic King, of
whom he makes a special study; he goes out perhaps twice a week to
look at monuments. Naville is interested mostly in a newly exca-
vated text and in my Ramses III duplicate of the Cow Room (which
he knew all about, but didn’t mention when he published the text
in the Tomb of Seti I); these two texts are to be the foundation for
two articles confounding Brugsch. And to-day he asked me where
one of the most important historical texts in Karnak was. Maspero,
even, does not seem to care much for what he does not intend to
write about; he watches diggings while there are most important
texts within a stone’s throw, which he has studied in bad copies, but
has not the curiosity to examine. I suspect that at the end of this
season he will go to Paris, having devoted in two years two hours to
the Tombs of the Kings. Of course, for those who live by Egyptology
and who must show the Egyptological world that they are doing
something, this is natural; they come to have the instinct of the
newspaper reporter and to go for that thing only about which they
can make an article. It is perhaps the right way to make a speedy
reputation, but I prefer to work more generally. Wiedemann has
worked too much in the sun and dust and his mother says he must
not work any more at Karnak this year.

This Friday I have been to Karnak. I have found a third copy on a
pylon there of a text which 1s also at Medinet Abu and at Aboo
Simbel. Naville has lately translated these two,1 without knowledge of
this third; ifI were to tell him of the third, he would doubtless have
known all about it or else would report it as his discovery here. He
reads the Scriptures and prays before his family and servants daily.

M. Maspero thinks he will stay here a fortnight longer; then we
shall stop a few days on the way down and hardly get to Cairo much

I. E. Naville. “Le Décret de Ptah Totunen en faveur de Ramses II et de Ramses III" in “Transactions of
the Society of Biblical Archaeology." vol. VII. 1882. pp. 119—138. See J. H. Breasted. “Ancient Rec-
ords of Egypt.” Vol. III. § 394—414.

I39

