OCTOBER 1881 TO APRIL 1882]

Museum does. Then over to the grave of Ra-mes1 which Abd-er—
Rasool found for me last year. M. Maspero has now dug it out more.
It is quite curious as showing the transition of the heretic King,
Amenophis IV. He has here changed one of his cartouches but is still
Amenophis IV and in some of the scenes he begins to assume the
elongated neck and chin which so distinguish him when he appears
as the full-ﬂedged Khu-en-Aten in the graves of Tell-el-Amarna.
Old Hasseyn Baroor came while I was there and said he was going
down into the deep grave tomorrow to make a paper cast of the
sarcophagus which has ﬁfty-six cartouches; it is Queen Ameniritis.2

My little boatman of last year was waiting for me at night; our
boat has been in the Princes’ service. Brugsch who is3 with them, says
that everybody on board keeps a journal and he has to tell each one
all about everything.

Here I found that M. de Bligniéres has resigned and your letters,
and Dora’s; M. Charmes takes the Postal boat to-night for Cairo to
see Mr. B ...... before he goes to France and that reduces our num-
ber to eight. I am amused at Dora’s troubles with German grammar;
the question comes to me, if when she has mastered the grammar she
will not have forgotten to speak the language. . . . . . It is half
past eleven and everybody has gone to bed but I; I must put this in
the box on the Postal Steamer and go too.

Tuesday I loafed about and made calls on Arabs. Dr.
March 14, 1882 Hutcheson, the fat jolly Englishman who came to
Luxor to doctor because he was laid up in bed four

months last winter with rheumatism, decried my permanganate of
potash, but to-day I was happy to tell him that my woman was
reported well in an hour after the injection. He is doing Mme.
d’Estournelles’ eye. Aly Moorad was going up with us, but a daha-
beeyeh having arrived, Mr. Patterson’s, he thought they might ask
why the American Consul was not at home, and so didn’t. There may

I. No. 55 Porter-Moss, "Topographical Bibliography." vol. I. pp. 86—87. See N. de Garis Davies. “The
Egyptian Expedition." 1922—1923. the Graphic W'ork. in "Bulletin of the Metropolitan Museum of Art."
New York. December, 1923, Part II. p. 40: Amenhotep IV in the two styles of tomb 55.

2. Queen Ameneritis is a mistake for Queen Nitocris. See G. Maspero. "Premier rapport sur les fouilles
executées en Egypte de 1881 a 1885" in “Bibliotheque Egyptologique." vol. 1. Paris. 1893. p. 184; “The
Egyptian Museum—A brief description of the principal monuments." Cairo. 1930. p. 19. no. 640.

3. Emile Brugsch.

145

