[CHAPTER TWO

would-be-vendor. This afternoon I found one of the crew had bought
it for two piastres and he began to read the generations of the ﬁrst
Chapter. There was a little discussion as to who these people were and
I suggested they were all Jews. One man quite promptly and with a
feeling which reminded me of a similar exclamation from Dora when
she was little, answered: “Seyyidna Essa M005}: Yahood”, “Our Lord
Jesus was no Jew.” I read them the ﬁrst of Spitta's stories and they
were polite enough to laugh heartily and then they began to tell the
story over to those who had not heard it. Said has come on with me;
he wants to see Thebes and perhaps it is as well to have one man with
me who I know is on my side. M. Maspero is quite willing to have
him on the boat; he employs from preference the Bedaween of the
Gizeh pyramids and has them scattered about generally. Since
Brugsch left us we are reduced to nine. M. and Mme. Maspero, whom
you know, and who are now sitting at the ends of the table in the
saloon. M. Maspero is reading a little in the Arabian Nights with
Bouriant, of the French School, and Mme. is basting in a ruche, hav-
ing ﬁnished her darning. Next her are Charmes and 1. He is reading a
book of Chabas;l within reach of us there are nearly ﬁve hundred vol—
umes. Next on my side are M. and Mme. Rhoné and on Charmes’
side Mlle. Rhoné (was, but she has gone to bed), M. Bouriant and
Mme. Maspero’s mother. Rhoné is studying Baedeker; he writes his
impressions in a book daily very neatly and completely. He has
written a book L’Egypte d petite: journées, which was crowned by
the Académie, and he is going to make the second volume, on Upper
Egypt. He is little and not handsome, was a great friend of Mari-
ette’s and is of de Lesseps, and has known Egypt for seventeen years.
He was at the ball about which the famous story is told of Brugsch
and his ﬁrst wife and it was held in the building where Judge Hagens
now presides, then the palace of a Minister. He is little and not hand-
some, I repeat it naturally, and when he has not his nose in a book
likes to talk and talks well. His wife has a large round English face,
goes on crutches and is carried up and down stairs by two sailors.
She is carried by four when she makes an excursion and they gener-
ally are ahead of or behind the four-legged bearers. But though much
alone, perhaps because much alone, she is always smiling. She reads

 

I. Francois—Joseph Chabas. French Ezyptologist (1817—1882). Sec F. Chabas and Ph. Virey. “Notice
biographique dc F. Chabas," in "Bibliothéque Egyptologique." vol. 1x. Paris. 1899. pp. I-CLII.

92

