[CHAPTERSEVEN

his shop and bring in better things from other rooms. So when the
police scaled up his shop, they got only the poorest things. Or, they
say, he paid the police two hundred pounds to open the room and
take out the best things. Or, as they say, he had notice some hours
before the police came. Anyway he has ﬁne things, of which I got one
or two for Mrs. Milbank and of which I saw more. When I came away
it was uncertain if Grébaut would or would not offer them anything.
M. Mohassib assured me he would not take anything; he was going to
Cairo and he would see if a man’s house could be broken into thus, as
if he were a criminal; he said his mother had been sick ever since in
consequence.

At Edfoo Grébaut seized of Hussein two ﬁne mummies and a tab—
let with gilded ﬁgures, the ﬁrst he has been able to get from the
Edfoo Necropolis, which has been worked by some of my Goornah
friends now for two years. One of the mummies was of an Arch
prophet of the temple of Edfoo. He showed me these with much tri-
umph, on the steamer and since then has worked this necropolis for
some days. But I doubt whether he got as great a trophy as Budge
has carried away, a papyrus for twelve hundred dollars. All our Luxor
acquaintance we found alive and well, except Mustafa Aga. They say
his funeral was something wonderful; all the people came for ﬁfty
miles around. And Ahmed reigns, moderately, in his stead. In spite of
Maspero’s efforts to get him out of the temple, there he stands and
there I expect to see him again. He is trying to get an English wife
with some money to ﬁnish the new house, now lacking windows and
doors. We heard from the hotel interesting details of such attempts.
George Coromilla had his hands full with the hotel this year sixty to
eighty guests much of the time, some sleeping in tents. Finally they
got up old dahabeeyehs and when we came down, we found our old
place and all its neighborhood fully occupied by these and the many
Cook Steamers. However, we tried the middle of the river and found
it much better, fewer nuisances and a wonderful view of Temple and
town and gaily lighted boats. Aly Moorad suffered by the inunda-
tion, but has built a new mandam, and has triumphed in his quarrel
with the Italian Consul. His boy Ahmed has sent back his last sum-
mer’s wife to her father the telegraph man, and joined Gelall in an
antiquity partnership, this about the time the police made the

462

