DECEMBER 1880 T0 APRIL 1881]

by mosquitoes so that he seemed to have small—pox. Three students
are on the way from France, two of them the best he had there; they
are hunting a house and repeated that there would be a room for me
on my return. They brought twice as much weight as I, mostly in
books, fortunately because there is no good Egyptian library here.

In the afternoon Brugsch called to return some of my books he
had borrowed and took me to see Spitta, the German librarian of the
Viceroy’s Library and then to see Dr. Schilbach and his wife, the
young people I have seen copying. Maspero wants me to go to see
Mariette. Mr. Otto Wesendonck, whose duplicate of Coreggio’s San
Girolamo we saw in Dresden, has come to take a dahabeeyeh up the
river—an odd meeting this morning.

W'ednesday Yesterday Cook’s agent, M. Rostowitz, invited
7anuary 12, 1881 me to go down as far as Sakkarah on the
Behem/z, the second special steamer of the sea-
son. She takes eight days longer thanthe ordinary steamers, all de-
voted to sight seeing. Colonel McKaye and several others from the
Hotel go on her. I thought it would be a good opportunity to see a
Cook’s steamer and the diggings at Sakkarah and went. The steamer
seemed very clean and comfortable; it was freshly painted, almost too
freshly; the lunch was fair and about noon we started by the summer
route to Sakkarah. Then Mr. 8: Mrs. Young and I turned southwest
to the Mastaba el Pharaoon, the “Bench of the Pharaohs.” A huge
bench it is well suited to a race of men about twenty rods high. We
mounted it and had a ﬁne view towards Dashoor and over the
desert. One can see ten or twelve miles westward while from the
Great Pyramid of Gizeh the west horizon is not two miles away. To
the northwest and near is Pyramid I now a mass of debris from which
the larger stones have been taken away for building. Then we went
north to the Pyramid II (Lepsius 34th).

There, there had been great excavations, but the hole on the north
side was ﬁlled up several yards deep with good-sized stones; it would
take two hundred days’ work to clear them away. Then down to IV
where there were no traces of recent work but the outer layers of the
pyramid having been taken away the manner of building by suc—
cessive walls twelve or ﬁfteen feet thick and slightly inclined was
very evident. Then, not having yet found the diggings I started for

23

, E— .
‘ I, n
l l

” l l »

