[CHAPTER FIVE

Then I went to the Egyptologist, von Bergmann, who will take me
to-morrow into the unﬁnishedArt building to see their acquisitions in
Egyptian and, after a beefsteak at the old restaurant, founded ﬁfty-
seven years before Awa Samecks sold us our place, took coffee at the
café which looks upon the grand old Cathedral. The streets are
bright with Christmas toys, but I have not seen so many Christmas
trees here as in Leipzig where the Augustus-platz looks like a pine
forest. But the people do not look as well as they do in May; they are
bundled up and their complexions seem coarser; perhaps they do not
look as well to me coming from America as coming from Egypt. I
think they have colds; Politzer’s is horrid, and I shall have one if
write longer with the ﬁre gone out of my oven. i

ON THE ADRIATIC I had only begun to write yesterday when the
December 26, 1885 steward came for my letter. So I did not tell you

how the evening before, a Naval Count inter—
ested himself to find me a route through Hungary to Constantinople
by which I might get to Egypt without quarantine, and how after he
had looked an hour, and I had found it was too late to get to Naples
and take the Messageries boat this week, a friend came in, not so
handsome but more practical: “Le Baron Max de Ku’beck, Conseiller
de Legation I. and R., Deputé au Parlement d’Autriche, 27 Wien-
strasse, Vienna,” as his card says. He said he would go for me at
eleven in the morning to the President of the Seebehorde, who would
know best what danger there might be of quarantine at Alexandria.
The Baron had been twice in America and both times to Newport
and speaks English fairly. He is much in politics, belongs to the
Municipal Council in Vienna and to the Moravian Parliament as
well as to that of the Empire. It was one o’clock before we went to
to bed. Yesterday morning after breakfast and your letters . . . .
the Baron took me to the Ritter von Albert, a bright, lithe handsome
man with white hair, who was charmingly affable. He told us all
about the four cases of cholera and how none of the crew of the
steamer in which it came from Venice, had been attacked, they had
them all locked up in quarantine. Only those who had gone to work
on the boat and the woman of one of them, had been seized. The

332

