[CHAPTER TWO

tion of him, then Jew Lavison and then a blonde man unknown and
further I forget. Altogether about twenty. After the ﬁrst the
Bligniéres little boys gave place to Sinadino and Tigrane Bey,l the
smooth-faced handsome nephew of Smooth—faced N ubar Pacha, was
on the voyage and showed himself very helpful to Mme. de Blig-
niéres. In the afternoon we had a comfortable time and I remember
that “Lady Malortie” as somebody called her, sat very picturesquely
on her fur rug in the stern and I had a good dinner; then at seven
o’clock I was sleepy which lasted with very few interruptions till
this morning—

Friday when we passed the foot of the Adriatic and came
April 2f, 1882 under the lee of Calabria. It has been a good time
for the company; at one breakfast I hear there was
only the Captain and Doctor. The twice or thrice when I was awake
at meal-times, we were only ﬁve or six, and nobody seemed very
sharp. Sleeping doesn’t seem to give appetite. I have never seen
cabins so well ventilated. The port-hole was shut lest I should take
cold sleeping in the draft (the cabinboys are all French and afraid of
courant d’air, you know), and yet the air never seemed bad, even
when going down from above deck, which I did three or four times.
I remember little about my fellow—creatures; the boy would bob in
and wake me every few minutes to know if I wanted anything, and I
remember thinking two or three times that I had answered him in
Arabic or in English, I was so sleepy. I have a vision of Mrs. P .....
laid out on the divan in the saloon and not happy, and of Mr.
P ..... indolently reading a book with his little round hard head
and of Golden-Hair spread also on the divan but picturesquely she
and each time with a different shade of delicate dress and precious
coverings and a pink pillow which through its nansook cover tinted a
perfect background for her sweet patient face. No, the ladies at
Shepheard’s were wrong. She is not stupid.

To-day everybody is on deck again and the Australian has been
sketching us rather well, and the Sévres Englishman was born in
Indianapolis and Mme. Spartiali, having ﬁnished Le Batard du

 

I. Tigrane Bey. later Tigrane Pasha occupied for a long time the post of Under-Secretary for Foreign Affairs
and subsequently became Foreign Minister. He was the son-in-law of N ubar Pasha. See Earl of Cromer.
“Modern Egypt,” vol. ll. London. 1908. pp. 221—225.

174

