[CHAPTER EIGHT

November 28, 1888 I visited Mr. and Mrs. Alexander and heard

classes in Arabic Grammar and Mental Philoso-
phy and in English, Old Testament. They showed minute knowledge
of the Annals of the Jews, which they seem to get hold of handily.
Then he took me to see the boys at table, where Mrs. Alexander was
walking about with a small riding whip. She told me she had great
difﬁculty in making them sit up straight. They feed those who fur-
nish their own bread for ﬁfty cents a month, those who do not for a
dollar and a half; they furnish a better table for two and a half dol-
lars, and a best, with knives and forks, for seven and a half dollars.
At the best were but three, one an Abyssinian, brought by an Eng-
lishman, pious and philanthropic. He is (the Abyssinian) far on the
road to heaven through pulmonary Presbyterianism.

The Alexanders came to tea with me; also from the Girls’ part,
Mrs. Kelly Giffen, whose husband now inspects schools per daha-
beeyeh, vice Dr. Lansing, Miss Kyle, Miss Hogg and Miss Strang,
who has come out to replace her sister, married to the oculist, son of
Dr. Lansing. Little Miss Giffen, ﬁve or six years old, could not be
quite persuaded to stay with me; she was going to-morrow to Minieh
to see her papa. Somehow the Americans seemed much less like
Missionaries than the two Scotch girls, who were straiter (I spell it so
on purpose) and drier.

While they were here, Santoni, whom I had called on in the morn-
ing, came in with Aboo Shanab. He is suffering but looks in perfect
health. He tells me the English are rooting out the others constantly;
when they appoint a European, it is an Englishman; when they ap-
point an Egyptian it is a Syrian or an Armenian or a Jew, always the
same story. Fritz Insinger came with the train and I spent the even-
ing in the Mermaid. He seems thinner and sharper than when in
Paris.

SIOOT Nefady and Mustafa having gone to their
November 29, I888 beledl, I took Showolly and Mohammed Arbab
and the donkey boy Omar Mohammed, whose

big white beast I have often bestrode, and started out back of Sioot
by the Stabl Antar southward. At Dronkah I stopped at the place

 

I. Bdcd - village.

482

