FEBRUARY 1884. TO MAY 1884]

The mummies were not visible nor could one see the entrance to
them. This tomb was a chapel for worship and for bringing offerings
every ten days and the Spirit was near enough to enjoy them. I found
tombs yesterday the breadth of which from 6. to f was twenty-four,
thirty-two, thirty-six, and forty cubits. Generally these arms are but
four cubits wide (just seven feet); when they wish them wider, they
make them ten cubits wide supporting the rock roof by a row of
pillars two cubits square. This makes them grander but does not
greatly increase the surface for decoration. Such an one is the Tomb
of Horemheb1 which Ebers has made famous; the Arabs call it Aboo
Bolosﬂl spent an hour in it yesterday and found the secret of his
importance; he married the King’s nurse.

With great secrecy Abd-er-Rasool took me in the afternoon to No.
33, the tomb of the man who nursed Amenophis II;3 I mapped it last
year, and told him about it. While we were making a new search for
the man’s name, Abd-er—Rasool’s mother Fendeeya and my water
girl came with terrible news that my servant’s head had been broken
by the donkey-boy. So we hurried back to the White House to mend
it. It was the black head of my chair—cane which had been broken by
the wicked Awad over Said’s head; the scalp was cut and the white
night gown which he wears in the daytime and calls it a liéas, was
well spotted with blood. Abd—er-Rasool got out his razor, stropped it
on his arm, shaved off the short hair neatly about the wound, put on
a piece of thick brown paper and then the cap and turban and
Said’s head seemed to be all right. Meantime a woman, who said
she was Awad’s mother, came and wailed and hated Said and ap-
pealed to me saying her boy was crazy and Awad killed Said and it
all appeared to be all right. Abd-er—Rasool and I started again and
mapped more tombs. In one of them where there was no danger of
being overheard, he told me that the Mahdi was really coming-and a
man from him had come to Gurnah and told him that it would make
no difference what soldiers were opposed to him because he did not
ﬁght as men do. His army was all dervishes, a million and a half,
already. And his sword is not of steel but of wood, and he himself

 

I. Horemheb read Amenemheb.

2. Aboo Bolos: "Als 'Vater des Paul' war ich 'Abu Bolos' und horte mich gern so ncnnen." G. Eben.
“Mein Grab in Theben." Breslau, 1882.

3. No. 33 of Wilkinson = 93 of Porter-Moss; see N. de G. Davies. "The Tomb of Ken-Amﬁn at Thebes.”
New York. 1930.

289

