DECEMBER I882 TO APRIL 1883]

had talk about an International Commission. This would consist
really of the Director and conservators of the Museum and eight or
ten Englishmen who might decide that the safest place for the Mu-
seum is in the British Museum. Dufferin spoke to Maspero about
Boolak being a bad place for the antiquities. Since this news Maspero
thinks he will wait here till Dufferin has gone. Mme. is trying to
paste some fragments of Coptic papyrus on paper, with moderate
success. My eye opened this morning without wetting it and seems
pretty much well. I have incautiously w ashed them w1th warm water
as Maspero does his and that has induced the trouble. I return to
what I am accustomed to, cold water. Mohammed Abd-er—Rasool
reports that the Dufferin diggings are near a good place he knows of,
but not in a good place, so we hope he may ﬁnd nothing and be dis-
couraged and go back to governing Egypt, or better, Ireland.

EYE-GARWOODS I still coddle my eye, reading, writing, studying
Saturday but not going to Karnak or the West Side. Its
Marc/z 24, I883 sensitiveness to strong light is over and I need
wear glasses only to protect it against the dust,
which seems to cut it. But if it bothers me much longer I shall start
for Europe, the season here is so near over. Dufferin postponed his
use of Maspero till tomorrow. I took Mrs. Garwood through the
Temple of Luxor. Garwood told me in Cairo Cook had invited him to
go with him to the Second Cataract, but that was an invitation of a
year ago when Garwood was a great man in Egypt. Now that he is
going to England I suspect Cook didn’t say anything about the invi-
tation; at any rate she told me Garwood did not wish to go to see the
antiquities and so they did not go, but she wanted to see Thebes
after living so many years in Egypt and so came with Debt Commis-
sioner Money and his daughter.

ANOTHER SCORPION Maspero has gone alone to guide Dufferin.
STING While I was chatting with Mustapha at sunset
Sunday yesterday under his great pillars of Memnon,
Marc/z 25, 1883 Tanyos our Coptic Luxor sailor whose wife I
treated last year for a scorpion sting, came for

me; his boy was bitten. So I made ready a dose of hypermanganate in
my hypodermic injection tube and went this time unaccompanied by

239

