DECEMBER 1880 TO APRIL 1881]

up by his brother, which I copied. Aahmes was a bravo of his time,
served under several Eighteenth Dynasty Kings and records how
many prisoners he took and how many he killed in each campaign.

3. Pa Hir, the left side of this, the most elaborate of these grot-
toes, was copied by the French Expedition who went with Napoleon,
Lepsius gives all but the funerary part, the inner end, and Brugsch
has copied the very interesting inscriptions. They give the life of the
man. The end in which he, his wife and mother, three statues now
broken away, are surrounded by a long funerary text, is in Lepsius.
The East side shows him and his wife receiving offerings from his two
sons and their wives, backed by four ranges of relatives, some rather
remote, such as “the son of the sister of the mother of his mother.”
One is “his brother, the follower of his Majesty Pa Maoo, the Cat,”
and the Cat is much better than I can draw. In the third range,
which is of women, a boy with two pitchers in his left hand offers with
his right a cup to Amon’s daughter,l whose head is draped with a
lotus-bud and says: “To thy spirit; drink to the full; make feast day
for all the rest of this thy youth which is thine. Be not weary in
making merry.” The next woman who is the “Daughter of the sister
of the mother of his mother” says: “I have taken eighteen Lion cups
of wine. Lo, How I love to make drunken my place of straw.”2 This
seems a real revel for a great-aunt. The next lady has her head
turned back attending to what another Ganymede is saying to the
next:

“Drink! Do not make us listen to thee. I am not here to await
thee.” And the last woman, whom she makes wait, says to her:
“Drink, I don’t spoil the music” and something I am not sure of.
There 13 music below, a girl playing on two reeds and one playing
with something in each hand, both as now in the G/zawazee Fantasias,

and a girl with a harp.

4. Staoo, on a tablet outside are Cynocephali and Staoo prophet of
Nekheb and his wife, the Chief of the Harem, Great-love adoring Ra-
Harmakhis in his sun-boat, a few fragments of an inscription on the
west side indicate that he was sent on a mission with boats to inspect

I. Amen's daughter: translation of the Egyptian name Sat-amen.

2. F. Ll. Grifﬁth translates: “Give me eighteen cups of wine, behold I should love (to drink) to drunkenness.
my inside is as dry as straw!" J. J. Tylor and F. Ll. Grifﬁth. “The Tomb of Paheri at El Kab." London.
1894. p. 25-

39

