DECEMBER 1882 To APRIL 1883]

squatting, not kneeling as kings are in the orthodox times in such
representations of perpetual adoration.

While I was mapping and noting these three, Bouriant opened a
new tomb, more important, of the General of the Gendarmes of the
Town. the Baker Pasha of those days. Here besides the Hymn and
the Disk worship by the King and Queen in the doorway, the walls of
the front room are nearly all covered with scenes and among them
two of the King and in the same chariot facing each other so as to
bring their heads into nearly the same position as on my medallion
stone; but these heads have nothing like the delicacy of mine. In one
scene, I remember, General Mahoo brings a lot of prisoners to the
Mudeer; many are interesting as indicating his business. Inoticed
that here in these pictures there are ﬁve masts1 for ﬂags instead of
four, which indicates the heresy had added another to the four sacred
colors. Charmes and I rode back through Haggi Kandeel but without
adding much to our store of anteekeh. The top of a column was of-
fered us which might have come from a tomb or temple and the sill
of a door was a slab of similar origin. They will wait. The wind was
ﬁerce and full of sand and we came on to Rodah and cooled.

AN HOUR AT We started and spent an hour at Beni—Hassan,
BENI—HASSAN enough to walk through the twelve sculptured or
Tuesday painted tombs and see that they were there. I men-
April 3, 1883 tioned to Maspero that numbers had been put on the
tombs. He told me Sayce (an English Assyriologist

who was here last year), had put them on. But, I said there are two
numbers on each, red and black. “Perhaps the red ones are Cham-
pollion’s.” But, I said, neither were here last year and Champollion
begins his description from the south, while both these sets of num-
bers begin from the north. To which after a little eyeglassing, he
assented. I ran over things with my Index and Charmes looked at all
the pillars in stone and in the representations and Piehl took his
short-sighted impressions and that was all. It rather seems as though
the French savants who went with Napoleon did their architectural
work as badly as their hieroglyphics and their maps. Unluckily all
successors have copied their architectural drawings as correct. The

 

I. Ibidem pl. XLI. For the ﬁve masts. pl. XVIII.
247

