[CHAPTERSEVEN

at Luxor, hoped to ﬁnish three rooms so that he could sleep in it cold
nights next winter; this winter there were few. He would be willing
that M. Mohassib should use it as an antiquarian shop, inviolable
under the Dutch ﬂag. Our paralyzed Englishman of Shepheard’s
Mr. Coles Baker appeared in
a tandem with which he had
made all the excursions from
Wadi Halfa down, we saw
much of him and his pleas-
ant wife. Also of Doctor
Boase, who don’t like George, and Mr. Myers, who used to
come up in a dahabeeyeh with Professor Sayce, and M. Henry
Crete of Corbeil, who crossed the sea with me, . . . . he hopes to
bring his mother next year. Mr. Newman, the American painter of
Florence and his English wife were there with a winter full of orders,
and were pleasant society. Glimpses we had of many Cook steamer
folk, Carleton and family, interested mostly in the society they
picked up; at Luxor it was “Sir Sidney” (Waterlow). Mrs. Milbank is
in a dahabeeyeh with her daughter, the painter Anderson’s wife,
granddaughter and nephew. McCollum, scolded about the Carletons,
who had proposed from afar to make the voyage with them in a
Companion boat. I got some good anteekeh for her, and am to get
some gold ornaments from M. Frénay.

We stopped at Negadeh to see Pére Samuel; he seemed fresh
and delighted to see us, also at a £3 Mrs. Milbank sent him,
interested by Lottie’s descriptions. Ditto a 59 to Father Francis,
whose little brother gladly recognized the new Savonarola of the
Romola article. They had another brother from Khartoom also. At
Negadeh we saw Odescalchi’s new wife, a Levantine with a Yankee
woman’s head. They are going to Esneh where the Alliance Fran-
caise are opening a new school, the ground and building furnished by
a rich Copt as payment for a French Consulship. At Keneh we saw
the French School and heard English reading from Peter Porley’s
Universal H istory. Haggi Hammad our last year’s devotee sailor is
just married “to a woman as black as he,” Oorooshwan says with
hilarity. We made provisions of zeer: and goalie/251 from the shop

 

 

I. Z ears and goollehs. names of Arabic earthen vases; the ﬁrst are very big and used to ﬁlter the water. the
second are the small porous bottles used to keep the water fresh.

464

