OCTOBER 1881 TO APRIL 1882]

After breakfast at Shepheard’s, where I found Said waiting for
me and men with antiquities and Ameen whose wife has died and who
has a new one. I went down at sunset to the Museum; Mme. Mas-
pero looks very well; M. Maspero forgot himself one day and worked
too long in the heat and got a fortnight’s dysentery, over now but
leaving him thinner than I have ever seen him before. They asked
pressingly about you all and wished you were here and when he and I
were alone he asked me again if he should not save you a place on the
steamer for next winter. Preparing to start, they have found her
cylinder cracked; the machine has been taken out and is being re-
paired, I suppose with Egyptian celerity. Heaven knows when she
will be ready to start. Gabriel Charmesl of the yourna/ d6: Dééats, Mr.
Rhoné and his wife and daughter, with Mr. Bazil and Mme. Mas-
pero’s mother all have come for the ﬁrst of November and are all
living on board. My room awaits me, I am told; but I noticed that
the newcomers are pretty well mosquito—marked; I will go down
again this afternoon to see the Mummy Kings.

Yesterday I spent all day with Said among the dealers copying
what they have of interest and last evening an hour at Judge Ha—
gens’. They have a charming apartment furnished Egyptianly and
seemed a little surprised that I had not brought your pictures, which
they want. They talked about each one of you and were full of kindly
feeling. His brother has just come for a little visit to Egypt, a wi-
dower with three children of two mothers; he is in one of the minis-
tries in Berlin.

.Monday noon Ahmed, son of Mustapha Aga of Luxor came to
Octoéer 31, 1881 see me yesterday afternoon and we talked till too
late for the Kings of the Museum. He is very anx-

ious to free his father from suspicion of being connected with Mo-
hammed Abd-er—Rasool in hiding these predecessors of Tewﬁck.2 He
told me all about the people up there and says they have a lot of new
things this year to sell. Saturday I heard Mustapha was buying
scarabees to take to Luxor. He has been deprived of the consulship of

1. Gabriel Charmes. French publicist (1850—1886). took an important share with his brother Xavier. Di-
rccteur du Service des Missions in Paris. in the establishment of the French Institute in Cairo. See
G. Charmes. “Five Months at Cairo and in Lower Egypt." London. 1 883 (French edit. 1880) ; ”L'Egypte."
Paris. 1891.

2. Tweﬁk. son of Ismail, Khedive of Egypt after the deposition of his father on the 26th of June. 1879.

73

