[CHAPTER TWO

before April. I want to leave Egypt about that time, unless he should
make an excursion in Lower Egypt, and I would like to break the
journey a little from hot to cold weather, perhaps at Pisa where I
want to go over Rosellini's papers or in some of the Italian museums.
I would rather come straight ......

LUXOR ..... I am afraid that, after all, Americans
Monday think more of titles than most other people—-at
Marc}: 6, I882 least some Americans. I noticed at Aly’s dinner the
other day after I had introduced Mr. Phelps to
Mme. d’Estournelles, he addressed her with repetitions of “Mme. la
Baronne” and though he emphasizes all his words much, these were
more—ﬁand when afterwards I took him on board to see Maspero,
just able to sit up with his back, he incidentally mentioned that on
the Danube where he expected to know nobody, something some-
body and Prince Radziwill, whose cousin knew him at Court, being
in diplomacy, introduced themselves to him. And yet he seems a
good fellow. When he came down into this saloon, he passed “Mme.
la Baronne” ironing on deck.

Your eye seems to me more offending than offended, but don’t
cast it out. I saw that the other day, having occasion to look up a
text in a religious controversy with Mr. Charmes. As to Jew bankers
warring on Catholics, it is natural that in stormy weather the old
sailors should steer better than the pious amateurs. This clerical
Union Générale having lent much money on congregational prop-
erty, so that the wicked Republic might not conﬁscate it, the prop-
erty seems now likely to be sold to pay its debts. Moral: In this
life the most useless thing is to get scared. You preach about Gam-
betta like Mr. Charmes. Now I believe that at the last election the
expressed will of France was that her Chamber should be elected by
departments and not by single districts and that Gambetta tried
to carry out that will and though he fails because of the fears of the
little men who feel themselves not big enough to run in a whole
department, yet when the country gets a chance to vote again,
it will settle the matter in its and his favor. The “dictator” cry is
bosh. He has been that and to become it, if he wished, again, he
wants little and not great men in the Chamber.

I40

