OCTOBER 1881 TO APRIL 1882]

hideous old monks had desecrated these tombs, in one even going so
far as to scoop out of the rock a back end to a chapel. The Thebaid is
beginning.

Friday In the afternoon we arrived at Sioot and wan-

Deceméer 23, I881 dered through the Bazaar, here a long covered

arcade or passage with a beginning of branches.

. In the Bazaar we found the V'Viedemanns and I called on

them in the Postal boat in the evening. Its Captain is Saleeb Gladi-

ous, the copt who gave Margaret lessons in Arabic in Luxor last
winter; he was then postmaster there.

Saturday We went in the morning up to the great tombs
December 24, 1881 in the mountain of the west of which I wrote
you last year.1 Mohammed of Luxor, the Cook
dragoman, was along with a steamer load of Kookeeyeh, some of
whom were at Shepheard’s before I left. They were eager to know
about the Pyramid of Meidoom, which they had heard was open. In
the afternoon I went again to the Bazaar and bought two dollars and
a half worth of saddle to avoid the recurrence of the ragged edge.
There are, they say, no saddles for Abydos. I saw there two great
piles of parched corn, or rather dourra, which is like our broom corn
in shape, though the kernels are larger. They looked so nice that I
bought the Arabic-bordered handkerchief I send you enclosed (prob-
ably printed in Manchester) and got it full for a piastre. The corn
was well parched and still warm. It was market day and we passed
through the market with more than a hundred camels and no end of
more or less darkies. We had extended our morning journey through
the cemetery, a very interesting one which I had not seen before, and
beyond we found in the sandy plain a poor funeral and a caravan
from Darfoor.‘2 The people of the caravan showed us some ostrich
feathers, which were as ugly and unkempt as they, but their camels
were slender and picturesque and the grouping of them was natural
and ﬁne in the broad strong sunlight.

1. See Murray. “Egypt." 1880. p. 423.
2. "Formerly the town was much frequented by caravans from the interior of Africa. especially from Dar-
foor. but only a few arrive now in the course of the year.” Murray. "Egypt." 1880, p. 423.

97

