NOVEMBER 1885 TO MAY 1886]

and ﬂoating down the River, our bows to Insinger’ s, a good way to
twist ropes about rudders. But we don’ t and are steaming again.

ASSUAN Thursday at Edfoo I worked on the inside of the
Sunday North Wall till dark, copying some lines that
February 14, I886 Eisenlohr wrote me did not come out well on his
photographs, and mapping the whole wall. Mme.
Grébaut took a long promenade with her Mohammed but did not go
to the temple, thinking it too far and of too little consequence. The
old man did not have on his overcoat this time; it was not a very hot
day.

Friday we came on to Kom Ombos and tied up there. The British
are building a fort, paying twenty-ﬁve cents a day for labor for which
Maspero pays seven and a half cents in Luxor. And yet their drago-
man complained to me that he got only three and a half guineas a
month while some servants of oﬂicers in Assuan got ﬁve or six
guineas. He supposed the Blacks might come and that was what they
were building the fort for. The front and sides of the pronaos are
gone; I mapped the rear, the only wall which is fairly exposed. A text
of a novel sort1 is now partly exposed on the front of the esplanade
before the temple. It is a procession of gods, mostly local, each with a
pile of offerings before him, which illustrate the products of each
place. It is well worth uncovering entirely and publishing, but as it is
of Roman time, it does not interest Maspero much.

Saturday morning we tried to start but the big cable with which
we tow Insinger’s dahabeeyeh was caught in something on the bed of
the river, they say a vessel was sunk there, and after pulling the knots
tight, they were obliged to cut it. Then we went on, the two crews
abusing each other because neither had thought to pull the rope in on
deck at night. Still we arrived in this boiling basin, where there is
more British and more heat than I have felt for a long time. The
whole line of palms along the river for a mile below the town along
the river is bright with tents; the town itself is dazzling with new
white buildings, on the biggest of which I read Thos. Cook and Son,
for It is they who are carrying on this war in large part. Away to the
south on the convent-crowned hill are the lines of the great fort which

 

I. “Catalogue des Monuments et Inscriptions de l'Egypte antique.” vol. II. V ienna. 1895. pp. 61 et seq.

365

