DECEMBER 1882 T0 APRIL 1883]

are going out to a brother who has been down with typhoid at Cairo.
On the Captain’s left are Mlle. Bishop of Limerick as they wrote her
card; her father, whom I met last year at Luxor, a very feeble old
man; the Doctor, a stick so unlike our last ship’s doctor; the Nor-
wegian judge1 in Mr. Farman’s court, who does not understand why
we hate the English so much; his new wife, a pleasant little woman
who reads Tauchnitz novels and does not come to meals; Mrs.
Stopford Jackville who having a nose trains her hair back over a roll
so as to make an answering curve just back of her forehead; then

her friend with a nose not quite so much so 5 and then there were
the Greenoughs, but they have got off. The boy said if I were only
going to stop at Naples, he guessed they’d stick to me.

ALEXANDRIA My head is slowly getting settled, very slowly.
HOTEL ABBAT Sunday we started at ﬁve A. M., twelve hours
Friday late. The ﬁrst day we were under the lee of

December 22, 1882 Italy, but in the evening we evaded Scylla and

Charybdis, passed the long lines of lights of
Messina and fronted the storm which came booming upon us all the
way from Syria. I fronted it in my berth that Monday and for the
most part Tuesday and when Wednesday morning the engine stopped
on a glassy sea, I turned over and went to sleep thankfully without
asking what was the disaster. They tinkered the engine till noon; the
previous day we had made less than eight miles an hour. Then we
went on again eleven and one-half miles an hour and at three yester—
day afternoon landed here once more, but to go no more to the Hotel
de l’Europe. That with what seems almost half the town, is a mass of
ruin. Last evening and today I have been wandering about wonder-
ing if ever again this old city of Alexander the Great can recover from
its terrible destruction.2 In the streets which have been cleared the
rubbish covers the sidewalks and seems to ﬁll the blocks solid up to
about twenty feet high. A young Englishman wondered to me Why
there were so few marks of ﬁre; most of the ruins indeed show no
signs of burning. I said: “Why, you goose, this was knocked down by

I. Norwegian Judge Jean Bernt Borchgreving. appointed to Alexandria on June 5. 1882.

2. See for the Bombardment of Alexandria. Earl of Cromer, “Modern Egypt." London. 1918. vol. I. chapter
XVI. For the problem of the ”burning” of Alexandria. ibidern. pp. 297—298. and Louis Bréhier. “L'E-
gypte de I793 a 1900." Paris. 1900. pp. 215-216.

I79

