[CHAPTER ONE

some days longer, perhaps a fortnight. There is most to be learned
here just at present.

This afternoon was the bridal procession of which I send you the
poster; mounted police, funny bag-pipe music, done with brass and
by relays so as to keep it up; two regiments, the black and the best,
marching like French soldiers; gorgeous carriages, the bride’s had the
curtains down, the other ladies looked out; more escort ended it.

There were but thirty—ﬁve European ladies invited to the last
night’s wedding. So the American ladies here stood no chance. But
some of the English ladies here went and stood in the crowd and
pushed up to the Palace and pushed (they said they were pushed) in.
The crush was so great that the bride fainted. This morning I went
Over to the New Hotel and said good-by to Elsen. I gave him F aris’
Arabic Grammar with our address; I hoped to see him at Luxor, but
now fear I shall not. He very earnestly pressed me to go up from there
to Assuan with him. I have seldom liked anybody so much on a
fortnightly acquaintance. After he was gone I found a note on my
table to say good-bye, giving me rendezvous at Luxor, and his
address: Winter—49 Place de Meir, Antwerp; Summer and Fall
Donck Brasschaet, province of Antwerp.

Evening Day before yesterday I received yours with Carleton’s and

Eisenlohr’s and now I have yours of the twenty-third. The
Archaeological Institute may or may not be a myth, but Maspero1 is
waiting to see and to work out that of which I may not speak, as
Herodotus says. Perhaps he is the ﬁfth white man who knows of it, I
shall certainly stay to see him and to see It. I wish your sore throat
might have the soothing of this soft air; it is a long way to come, but
the air pays.

1. Gaston Maspero. French Egyptologist (1846-1916). See R. Cagnat. “Notice sur la vie et les travaux de
M. Gaston Maspero," in "Comptes Rendus de l'Académie des Inscriptions et Belles Lettres." Paris.
1917. pp. 445—483. Edouard Naville, "Sir Gaston Maspero, K. C. M. G.", in "Journal of Egyptian
Archaeology." London. vol. III. 1916. pp. 227-234. Henri Cordier. "Bibliographic des oeuvres dc
Gaston Maspero." Paris 1922. Wilbour is making allusion to the famous mche of Deir-el-Bahari of
the royal mummies. See Gaston Maspero “Les Momies royales de Deir-el-Bahari." Paris 1889. The
French Archaeological Institute is the Mission Archeologique Francaise au Caire founded in 1880.
since 1901 L'Institut F rancais d'Archéologie orientale du Caire. See pamphlet edited in Cairo in 1909
by E. Chassinat.

IO

