[CHAPTER NINE

them knowing them to be such. Mohammed had shown us and Mr.
Maudslay has now purchased the gold-shod breast scarab of the
Heretic King, the ﬁnest scarab I ever saw. Sayce argues that his
tomb must have been found and probably the cuneiform tablets
came from it, and not from the mound a mile north of the palace
where Sayce was assured they didl. We agree to search for this place.

February 26, 1890 I took Revillout across the Nile, showed him the

lone Demotic inscription on the talking Colossus
where we met Abd-er—Rasool; then the inscriptions on the roof of the
temple of Ramses III at Medinet Haboo, and in the temple of the
Thothmes there; then those in the upper tomb belonging to the one
tomb discovered intact in the time of Maspero and then the many in
the little temple of Deyr el Medinet—more than he has time to copy
while here. I left him after lunch at work with Abd-er-Rasool to
convoy him, and on the way to the river stopped awhile at Mohammed
Abd-er-Rasool’s to talk with him and the Omdeh, Mohammed el
Hashash, about old times—Wilkinson, and Rhind, and Hood, who
with his wife knew and were much beloved by everybody they said. At
the dahabeeyeh I found that Revillout had preceded me and already
called. Sayce and Robertson had been to Karnak with the girls and
the Maudslays, and we all tea-ed on the Timsaah. Eisenlohr came in
while we were at dinner; he is up about the Baedeker for Upper
Egypt, which was in proof ten years ago and is still struggling to see
the light. He did not approve of Cook changing the printed pro-
gramme which gave the day to Medinet Haboo and the west side, so
as to come back to lunch on the steamer and go to the Luxor Races in
the afternoon. He showed us photographs of his two boys with
much pride and he hopes to have the Baedeker out in four or ﬁve
months. Bouriant came in with a telegram from Grébaut that he is
coming.

February 27, 1890 I made some calls. Insinger is much better and
appears as well as of yore. Mr. L. Richard Mott

Laimbeer came in. He and his wife are up for his health on the Man-

 

: . A. Barsanti. “Sulla scoperta della Tomba del F araone Amenoﬁ IV." in “Memon’e della Real: Accademia
dei Lincei." Seduta del 15 aprile 1894. U. Bouriant. “Notes de Voyage." § 21. “Tombeau royal d’Hadji-
Qandil." in “Recueil de Travaux.” vol. XVIII. 1896. pp. 144—150; U. Bouriant. G. Legrain and G. 16-
quiet. ”Monuments pour servir a l'étude du culte d'Atonou en Egypte." Cairo. 1903.

558

 

