[CHAPTER FOUR

does nothing but say Alla/z, Allah, day and night and he uses no can-
non as men do, nor any powder, but in the battle he takes dust up
in his ﬁngers, so: (and Abd-er-Rasool took up some dust and blew it
smartly away) and they are all dead. And as he said this and did this
his eyes ﬂashed so that I felt he believed it.

To-day I have loafed and invited my soul to repose ......
The head of Said is so that he is in the town, but the head of my
cane is only gummed. The thirteen hundred Arab soldiers came in
their three steamers and four barges yesterday evening and left this
morning while I was asleep. Mustapha Aga gave the six English
ofﬁcers a fantaiseeyeh last evening and didn’t invite me. Some Eng-
lishmen have been asking Maspero questions which they need not if
they had bought Murray, “What was the date of Tiberius?” and
such. Guy Lussac is back from Erment with his new English col-
league, the Irishman who takes the Jew’s place, showing him the
sights. Moncrieff, the head of the Ministry in which the Museum is,
has issued an appeal for contributions for Museum purposes and we
hear that the 701477241 dc: Débat: has taken it up in France and Renan
is out in favor of it. But I think the French people will not give
much; they are in the habit of seeing the government do such things.
England will do more.l

I forgot to say of .the Mahdi that the name by which the Arabs
oftenest call him is A'boo Safe Haslmé, “The Father of the Sword of
Wood,” so that the story of Abd—er-Rasool is supported by this
popular name.

Maspero comes in with some little antiquities for Mme. who is
delighted, but when she learns they have cost thirty francs she
threatens not to give him any more money. She has been quite ill
for some days and whenever she got a little better she has brought
on the trouble again by calling aloud to Mohammed on the deck or
by getting in a comma! d’air. Maspero has however devoted himself
to taking care of her. He has staid in the boat every day and all day
with three or four exceptions, ever since we have been here. Koor-
sheedt, the Turk, attends to the diggings, Brugsch is supposed to be
photographing, Baudry is getting interested in the architecture of
the temples as we near the day of leaving, Bourgoin goes across the

 

x. G. Maspero. "Premier rapport sur les fouilles exécutées en Egypte de 188: a 1885" in “Bibliotheque
Egyptologiquc." vol. I. Paris. 1893. p. 193.

290

