OCTOBER 1881 TO APRIL 1882]

Tuesday We loafed about till after a late breakfast and
yanuary 3, 1882 then went across the river. The other side has sent
a bank of sand over to meet us half way which has
thrown the current so strongly against the New Hotel that part of its
garden has fallen in and ten feet more will destroy its dining room. A
pity because it is a nice place. The Nagyar’s have gone to Cairo, their
enemies say to avoid paying their debts incurred in building and fur-
nishing the house. This is a small village. Old Khaleefeh, he of the
camels and the Colossi, gave me a stout donkey and we revisited his
big Twins,l and with my index I placed the plates printed of the
Ramesseum and Deir el Bahari. We did not go to the tomb whence
the mummies were taken; that is for our return. It is now stopped
with sand. We came back by the ancientest obelisks, small ones of
granite and the Eleventh Dynasty which are to be taken to Cairo and
placed before the door of the rebuilt Museum,2 and then by the Tem-
ple of Seti I. I explored a pylon two hundred yards in front built by
Seti and now occupied by two or three fellaheen families. One of the
girls offered me as bakhshish a red ear of corn. At the river, returning,
there met me grinning with contentment, the brave little boatman
who trudged all the way across the island to look after me the last
day I worked in the Tombs of the Kings in April. He is eleven or
twelve years old and is the reis of his boat, with a crew of a much
smaller boy. At noon Mohammed Abd-er-Rasool, who is in constant
attendance on us, gave us coffee and bread and koos-koos (curdled
milk) in the White House; we did not see his brother, my man, Abd-
er—Rasool. I talked with some of the Goornah men about it and they
all like Abd—er-Rasool; they say he is a man and Mohammed is not.
I shall see him by and by.

Wednesday After a little calling we started up stream. Some
yanuary 4, 1882 body said that there was a stone in the Sheikh’s
house in a village opposite Erment and we set out

for it on foot across the ﬁelds. We arrived after an hour at the site of

1. The big Twins: the colossal statues of Amenophis III. known by the Arabs as Shami (the vocal statue) and
Tami (his companion). See J. Bonomi. “Topographical notes on Western Thebes." collected in 1830
(with notes from P. E. Newberry) in "Annalee du Service des Antiquités." vol. VII. 1906. p. 82.

2. Obelisks of Antef VIII (after Petrie). See H. E. Winlock. “The Tombs of the Kings of the Seventeenth
Dynasty at Thebes” in the “Journal of Egyptian Archaeology." vol. X. 1924. p. 228. note 3: "The obe-
lisks . . . were shipped to the Bulak Museum and were lost in the Nile opposite Gamﬂlah on the way
down river."

107

