[CHAPTER TWO

God Akhem (“mummiﬁed hawk”) of El Kab, of the time of Thoth-
mes III. In one of the rooms of the Temple of Seti at Abydos are six
little naos, six inches square drawn with red ink on a yellow ground.
Midway of the right wall of the larger chamber of this tomb are two
similar, so nearly destroyed that one can only guess that the car-
touches are those of Seti and perhaps a Ramses. In the vestibule are
girls dancing, holding ivy vines quite Greekly.l The Greek soldiers
of the fort in later times liked to come up and see them, for they have
scratched their names, many and many, on the walls.

In the morning before Maspero was out I searched over the temple
grounds again and bought a headless statue with an invocation to
Horus of E1 Kab on behalf of the Spirit of the Prophet of Horus-
Khaf, son of the prophet Entef. To balance the other side of the ped-
estal there is added Osiris in El Kab. Notice the prepositions; Horus
of El Kab is a local god, a personage apart, while Osiris in El Kab, is

the incidental residence of the omnipresent god.

Sunday We started early for Edfoo, the City of Apollo of

january 8, 1882 the Greeks, who formed their Sun-God after our

“Ray-darter,” Hor-hud, the Horus of Edfoo. We

do not go up to the temple this morning; we have breakfast early and

shall get there before noon—ﬁfteen minutes walk; it would be too
much to spend both morning and afternoon there.

The old raﬁr (grasseyez the ﬁrst r)2 seemed very glad to see me
again. De Rochemonteix,3 who lived a year in the temple, taught him
that roz' is man and reine is woman. He inquired of Maspero the
health of his reine. I remember last year de Rochemonteix told him
about their little reine and when he asked about the little roi, an-
swered “hum—not yet.” The little roz' has come and is two months
old. We see here for the ﬁrst time the English dahabeeyeh, Timmh, the
Crocodile. The weather is delightful; all this month we have taken
our breakfast on deck; as we dine at seven, it is pleasanter to dine

below.

I. See U. Bouriant. "Lea Tombeaux d'Hieraconpolis" in "Etudes . . . dediées a Leemans". Leide.
1883. pp. 35-40; W. Wreszinski. "Bericht ﬁber die photographische Expedition von Kairo bis Wadi
Haifa." HaUe. 1927, p. 83: "Sie sind alle ganz zerstort." pl. XLIV what remains of the girls dancing.

2. Raﬁr for ghaﬁr, guardian.

3. De Rochernonteix started the copy of the temple in 1876; the ﬁrst issue of the publication was made in
1892 after the death of Rochemonteix; M. E. Chassinat resumed the work in 1897; the last volumes are
now on the press. See "Chronique d’Egypte." vol. IV. 1928-1929. pp. 263-265.

110

