NOVEMBER 1885 TO MAY 1886]

ﬁll up the Recueil of Maspero and that of the school. It does not in-
terest many people. A pleasant fellow with moderate ambition and
no sharp corners.

The three Grébauts are bourgeois heavy and friendly. The father, a
country lawyer, must have been very ugly. Mme. looks a woman of
force, substance, and ability. She has suffered many years from rheu-
matism, which the humidity of the river revived for three or four
days. Mademoiselle, perhaps thirty—ﬁve, worships her brother and
helps him much about his amateur photography. He has made bigger
preparations for that than I did when I ﬁrst came, and I think she
will need to help him a great deal; he is so awkward. I mentioned to
her that he might marry; she answered that neither ever would,
which reminded me that I had not thought of the possibility of her
marrying. Maspero has suggested to me a resemblance between her
and Mme. Rhoné, whom he does not admire.

Last evening I went with Mahmood Ledeed to his brother, Sheikh
Aly’s house, where I bought a wooden spoon with a Bes head carved
outside the bowl. Aly showed me near a hundred mummies; he had
three rooms full. Then Mahmood took a ﬁve-bushel bag of mummy
embroidered cloth and two boys conducted it on a small donkey’s
back to our boat, by which it and its proprietor get a ride to Luxor.
Mahmood tells me to-day that my friend Abdul Mégeed has a papy-
rus; that nobody I know in Luxor or across the river has died or is
sick, that there are a dozen Khawaga in Cook’s Hotel, and three
American ladies and Mr. Chester at the Karnak Hotel.

Yesterday afternoon Maspero took on board ever so many steles
at Akhmeem1 and a wooden Osiris, covered with gold, three—quarters
of a yard high. We expect to stop there three or four days on our
return, but now are hunting Barios; nothing else could have taken
us by Abydos where Seleeb’s turkey is fattening. The stones will be
copied, put in the Rand! and then perhaps some of them sent to
New York; for Cesnola2 has done what I advised him, ceased dealing
with Emil Brugsch and will send his money to Maspero and get
something for it. Maspero is now making up ﬁve thousand dollars
worth for him.

I. U. Bouriant. "Petits Monuments ct Petits Textes recueillis en Egypte" in “Recueil de travaux." vol.
VIII. 1886, pp. 159—165; vol. IX, 1887, pp. 86—89.
2. Perhaps Alessandro Palma di Cesnola; see A. H. Sayce. ”Reminiscences.” London. 1923. p. 150.

349

 

