NOVEMBER 1885 TO MAY 1886]

And to-day I took train at seven and had a wonderful ride to
Corinth and then under the shadow of its Citadel drifted on board
this Austrian Lloyd’s Leda, whose screw is shaking my calligraphy
into these quail-tracks.

Tuesday Alas for my God’s assent. I had forgotten that
May 20/24, 1886 Zeus does not rule the sea, and that I had
offended Poseidon by exposing his hen-pecked
situation under Athene’s Akropolis. Verily I have had my reward
and from the bitterness of my sleepless night I can preach: Jest not
over the gods. There was strong gusty wind with intermittent show-
ers along the Gulf until at dark we reached Patras, whose dried
grapes are making it thrive and burn much gas. There we came on
and I went to bed and slept. In the night I awoke wet with the dew of
anguish. Thescrew was amphibious! In fact, it was loose and it staid
so till we got behind another island when I dried up and went to
sleep. But it was a very long time between those islands, three hours
multiplied by a thousand pores. A beefsteak has rather set me up,
but has not cured my broken head. In the harbor of Corfu we ﬁnd a
rainy day. My Greek cabin mate and I taking our stuff in a boat go
on shore and ﬁnd that we may take the Florian C/zarybdi: tonight to
Gallipoli, round the heel from Brindisi, and so get on the railroad to
Paris. We go on board and forego the wonders of Corfu; I shall see
the one-gun battery and the famous roads, which the English say
they built, another time, when I hope it will not rain.

lVednesa’ay On shore in Italy at Gallipoli whither our F lorio boat
May 5, 1886 comes to avoid Brindisi. In old times it was enjoined

to avoid C/zarybdis, but this steam C Izaryba'z's avoids. We
were to have started at ﬁve last night, but did not until six this
morning; a donkey engine did my lullaby. I felt sleepy from ten to
three and then the calmness awakened me; we were under the lea of
the boot—heel. At six we came into this little town, where my Greek
friend went to the hotel not so inviting as the Stella at Cortona, to
take the train at ﬁve by way of Brindisi. We tried to get separate
rooms and a priest was put in with him last night. I go on with the
boat to Taranto and avoid a long railway detour. My head wants a

403

