[CHAPTER NINE

Omar, my donkey boy, looked after me. At noon after visiting the
Wrights, who know A. W. Thayer, an old Tribune man, life-writer
of Beethoven, now living at Trieste, I mounted the steamer Pepi,
old and with an appetite for a ton of coal every three hours, and
about two we had reached the Seven Hat/207's. It took an hour to haul
hawsers and howl and then half an hour to pull her off. We reached
Sioot in tow at half past nine.

7anuary 6, 1890 After marketing and soaking we sailed on and
before midnight overtook the India and the
Mermaid at Gow, the West.

7anuary 7, 1890 On to Ekhmeem rather late.

fanuary 8, 1890 Mr. Frénay showed us some powerful embroidered

heads, apparently Roman and tightened our rud-
der, a little shaken by the steamer-hauling. I bought of Sidrach some
doll’s glasses of the same forms as that of Edfoo, of which there is a
specimen in Paris and in Compton, and odd-shaped alabaster cup
and a delicately modeled torso of Aten-Maktl the second daughter of
the Heretic King from his Capital, Tell el Amarna, Hillaleeyeh’s
town. I got also of a chance man a head from Abydos, which must
be that of Seti while young. The nose is lacking, but yet the expres.
sion is very pleasing. We came on to Mensheeyeh.

yanuary 9, I890 Hanna Kerass was in the country and I got noth-

ing but a little bronze face and Petammon’s
scarab. There was offered me a stone tablet, the adorer before a ﬁsh
and the text a prayer to Osiris, which seems to identify them.2

january 10, 1890 To Belianeh where we thought to stay and go to
Abydos tomorrow, but the arrival of a Cook boat
at night changed our plans.

I. J. Capart. “Une Princesse égyptienne a Brooklyn," in “Le Messager.” New York. June Is. 193:. pp.
3-4; E. L. M. Taggart. "A Little Princess Returns." in “The Brooklyn Museum Quarterly.” vol. XVIII.
1931, pp. 104—109.

2. Compare with G. F oucart. “Sur Quelques Representations des tombes thébaires découvertes cette année
par l’Institut francais d’archéologie orientale" in “Bulletin de l'Institut Egyptien." vol. XI-Xll.
1917—1918. p. 276 and seq. and pl. III.

544

