NOVEMBER 1885 TO MAY 1886]

W ednesday There was a less drenching rain most of the day.
Apri/16/28, 1886 A Stanger (German for Cook) party of twenty-
one, but which seemed to be ten times as many,
upset our Hotel Sunday. They have been ploughing about in the
rain and left this afternoon having piled all Athens upon their
memories of the Seven Cities and Baalbec and Damascus and the
Holy Land and Egypt and Europe, the heavy-laden. A St. Louis
German woman Schnaider, with an American daughter, left-handed
me at table. She told me in a low-toned, although loud, English, that
everywhere she went she got a silver spoon made in the place, some-
times with a coin of the town or country set in it. The idea interested
me; it was surprising from that woman. To-day there was an after-
noon gathering which nearly ﬁlled the square, much speaking and
applause. The Prime Minister, Delyannis, supplied his neighbors
with arms quietly, and openly sent a guard of a hundred soldiers to
the house of the opposition leader, Tricoupis. There were three or
four regiments within as many blocks of the square. The peOple here
do not like to see the iron-clads at Phaleron, near enough to bombard
Athens; they have close relations with Alexandria.

Thursday A ﬁne day again. I hardly dare write that my
11in 17/29, 1886 rheumatism seems to be gone. But I made a
long tour to the Stoa of Attalus; the Eponymi,
into the enclosure of which nobody had entered before this year, for
the herbage was quite untrodden; the sliding place where I see that
people have cut out pieces so as to carry home the polish; the Pnyx,
where the people assembled to hear the orators and from the tribune
of which the view of the Propyloea and Parthenon is so good that
they seem made for each other; and the higher hill of the Philopappus
monument, where were gathered many soldiers and citizens, looking
out at the iron-clads.

Friday My Cretan brought the Greek red cap with big
dpri118/30, 1886 blue tassel which I commissioned her to get. She
says it will need a photograph to show how to

wear it. I see many women with it and it seems to go with their
faces. The war is all over and The Sword of the Lord is in good spir-

401

