NOVEMBER 1885 TO MAY 1886]

Massachusetts gentleman; at eight o’clock Friday morning I took
the train and in half an hour was met by the Bey, a rollicking Eng-
lishman, and mounted on the easiest horse I ever bestrode. The sea
air was strong and warm and there was not a breath of wind and as
we skirted the coast I wondered how it could be snowy in the lands I
had left the week before. To breathe was a luxury. On we went
through palm groves and over sand hills always within sight or
sound of the ripple of the beach. At one time we saw a ﬁsherman
stalking a ﬁsh, net in hand, ready to throw over it. I had read of this
in Spitta’s Arab Stories, but only now had I seen it. Every movement
was a picture; the turbaned, crouching form stealing upon its prey,
the calm, blue sea, the sandy shore glistening with white shells, the
watching and advancing, the strain of eye and sinew, the ready net,
the ﬁnal throw, the cautious gathering in lest he escape, and then——
nothing, just as when men ﬁsh in the Seine.

We came out upon the neck of Abookeer formed by the old
Canopic mouth of the Nile, just as long necks are now forming, on
the west banks of the Rosetta and Damietta mouths. The forts were
before us, one, two, three, black with guns ten-inch and less, all now
in charge of the Coast Guard. The Bey told me with great gusto of
his encounter with smugglers, many and daring, for the duty on to—
bacco has been doubled and hashish is prohibited entirely. I sug-
gested that it must be very exciting on both sides. “Yes,” said he, “if
I should go off the Coast Guard, I should be a smuggler.”

A musket shot south of the main fort we came upon seven frag-
ments of granite Doric columns. The big end had been cut off from
all, but the small end measured three feet through; the longest piece
was twenty feet. Surely this was a great temple. Then we went on to
the “idol” as they call it. I found a granite pillar ten feet high, with a
bewigged Ramses II carved on its front,1 holding in his left arm a
stone standard surmounted by a sphinX—coiffured head with a sun-
disk; upon this standard Ramses II’s son, Meneptah, had scratched
his name and titles. Ramses had occupied the back, left side and his
own belt with his. Unluckily the granite was peeled up to and a little
above the knee, so losing that part of the inscription where we usu-

I. Now in Cairo Museum, see L. Borchardt, “Statuen und Statuetten von Konigen und Privatleuten."
vol. II, Berlin. 1925. no. 574. pp. 122—123. pl. XCVIII; Ev. Breccia. “Monuments de l'Egypte gréco-
romaine," vol. I, 1. “Le Rovinc ei monumenti di Canopo." Bergamo, 1926, pp. 57-58 and pl. XXV. 2.

337

