[CHAPTER FIVE

sort his letters and how he put them up and that he understood his
business; I never drop anything in a box when I have time for a talk.

Saturday at Bedreshayn a boy herding his beasts in the corner at
the landing, Mohammed the son of Mohammed, said they herd two
feddans (acres) of land and paid twenty dollars tax on it besides
twenty-ﬁve cents a piece for the palm trees. On some land which I
remonstrated about because it was idle, he said they were going to
plant doora to eat; they sold all the wheat and some of their beasts
for the tax money.

A man there with two boat loads of sugar cane was selling it in
Yankee shilling bundles; he told me he bought an acre for one hun-
dred dollars, which I believed partly. There were piled up on the
bank great heaps of ears of doora, which imitate badly our ears of
corn.

Tuesday At the Post Oﬂice here the postmaster told me
7anuary 12, 1886 that a dahabeeyeh Khawaga had been there and
left a letter which he showed me for “La Donna
Francisca Siiell, Calle Amargura Cataluna, Rens, Espagne.” I noted
it and thought I should have a surprise for the handsome young
Spanish Consul General Toda,l who has the state-room beside me,
but when I asked him if he knew the town of Rens, he said it was his
own and the letter was to his mother.

I enclose a newspaper slip that you may see how your name looks
in Greek: Oﬁtkﬁop Saridis told me he had seen it in this paper and
my sensation when he showed it to me was somewhat as when I ﬁrst
saw it in the College Catalogue.

We are expecting the (English) Minister of Public Works now,
Scott-Moncrieﬂ', who will go with us to Lisht to see what kind of a
pump shall be put into the South Pyramid, that we may see the
chamber now full of water.2 It was here I copied the stones of Khafra
two years ago, the only known remains of an inscribed temple of the
Pyramid Age.

1. Eduardo Toda. see G. Daressy. in ”Annalee du Service des Antiquités." vol. XX. 1920. pp. 145—146;
E. Toda. ”Estudios egiptologicos. Son Notem en chas.” Madrid. 1887. pp. 12-14.

2. G. Maspero. “Premier rapport sur les fouilles exécutées en Egypte de 1 881 a 1885” in “Bibliothéque Egyp-
tologique." vol. I. Paris. 1893. p. 148; see the pumping operations at Lisht in Arthur C. Mace. "Excava-
tions at the North Pyramid of Lisht" in “Bulletin of the Metropolitan Museum of Art." New York.
vol. IX. 1914. pp. 214-218.

344

