NOVEMBER 1887 TO MAY 1888]

were they not covered with hieroglyphics. Twenty-one kings’ names
Naville told me he had found, from Pepi of the Sixth Dynasty down
to the Ptolemies. A new king also, two cartouches on a headless
black granite statue (Khyan)1. Both Makrizi and Murtadi, old Arab
writers, mention this Pharaoh as The Pharaoh of Joseph and give
sundry legends of the clearing and reclaiming of the F ayoom by
Joseph under him. These legends have hitherto been supposed to
have no solid foundation, but henceforth they will be evoked by piety
in England, and I hope will raise money for the Egyptian Explora-
tion Fund to dig out other temples with. The new king also supplies
gas for the bag of our Countryman Cope Whitehouse, who imagines
the Wady Raian to be the Lake Moeris of Herodotus. This king,

named Raian, proves it, of course.

Mr. Semaika has been very kind, has helped about an Egyptian
costume for Victor, yesterday brought a friend and his God, a big
Turkish mandolin which he made good music on, both Arab and
Frankish, and to-day is taking Lottie and Dora to some Coptic
splurge. Professor Toy, who did not tell us he had a letter from Linnie
to Semiaka, offered him a tutorship in Arabic at Harvard. He had
better not go; he would get consumption and the place being under
Hebrew, there is no chance of a Professorship. Mr. Baker of the
tandem donkey team, is at Shepheard’s yet. Dr. Lansing was in
here yesterday and borrowed some Arabic documents to illustrate an
article on the Song of Solomon. Dr. Grant has shown us all the good
things said about him on his trip in America, and more, too. Aboo
Shanab has come down with a boat load of opthalmia, Mme. Shanab’s
the worst case her doctor has had this winter. Of the little Shanabs’
No. I is nearly well, No. 2 quite and No. 3 didn’t have it. I have been
sightseeing once to Tooloon. Fritz Insinger has been neighborly,
rides his pony down often. He is going to Holland soon, to stay there
and in Paris with his father. Most of our dismissed sailors went up on

x. L. Borchardt. “Statuen und Statuetten von Konigen und Privatleuten"—(Catalogue général du Musée
du Caire). vol. II. Berlin. 1925. no. 389. pp. 7—8 and pl. 62. The passage quoted from Makrizi is trans-
lated by H. Bouriant. Magrizi. “Description topographique et historique de l'Egypte." Paris. 1895, p.
726. For Murtadi. see ”The Egyptian History treating of the Pyramids. the lnundation of the Nile and
other Prodigies of Egypt. according to the Opinions and Traditions of the Arabians." written originally
in the Arabian tongue by Murtadi. the son of Gaphiphus. Rendered into French by Monsieur Vattier.
Arabic Professor to the King of France. And thence faithfully done into English by J. Davies of Kid-
welly. London. 1672. p. 181.

2. Mme. Shanab—Mrs. Insinger; from the nickname of Mr. Insinger. Abou Shanab.

467

