[CHAPTER ONE

cloth which Mrs. Young ﬁxed on my old hat to cover it and my neck,
a sort of Sphinx coiffure, she said. I thought it heavy but everybody
else tied up his head.

The big granite statue at the Ramesseum is overwhelming even
though it has been overwhelmed, but my greatest astonishment was
at a“stele behind the Colossi” as Lepsius calls it in the“Denkmaler."l
This tablet which I innocently supposed a little thing is more than
one hundred tons of Assuan granite. Dr. VViedemann has found it
necessary to limit himself in the Temple of Ramses III at Medinet-
Abu which he meant to copy; he now hopes to complete the second
Court this winter, and that is a big job.

The postal boat came in late bringing the news of Mariette’s
death—such a scramble for letters. I had found ﬁve on my arrival,
including two from Mr. Cuming and it brought me ﬁve more includ-
ing two from Professor Eisenlohr. I am glad you are getting on with
no other trouble than the weather entails. Shall I have a house here
for next winter? I think the dry air would be a cure for most of the
family ills. Rheumatism and neuralgia are rebels which it easily dis-
perses. Houses are built of unburned bricks, which, about four times
as large as ours, are made for a franc a thousand. The walls are two
or three feet thick and labor costs from ﬁve to seven cents a day.
Straw matting covers the stone ﬂoors which are not cold. Doors and
windows are the principal expense. There is no danger from living in
a new house. You buy three or four eggs for a cent and a sheep for
less than a dollar. Thus far in Egypt I have seen one ﬂea on myself.
Flies are persistent when you go among the Arabs but there are none
in my room. There were mosquitoes in the reading room at Shep-
heards, not upstairs, nor here.

I will put all the time I have for letter writing into the sort of diary
I have begun; I ﬁnd that it is best to take things pretty easy and after
a hard, hot day’s work to rest without reading or writing. I suppose
the contest over the succession of Mariette has begun; M. Maspero
told me that the French authorities had wakened to its importance,
he feared too late. I should be very glad if the whole charge of the

I. The tablet is the Dedication Stele of the mortuary temple of Amenhotep III. See J. H. Breasted. "An-
cient Records of Egypt." Vol. II. Chicago. 1906. 5904—910.

32

