[CHAPTER TWO

the Boy, showed him from Lepsius Denkm'ziler’s plates that this
dance he found so dull was ﬁgured at Beni-Hassan in the Twelfth
Dynasty and the Boy conferred on Madame the priceless favor of his
photograph, in which he looks less insigniﬁcant, owing to his large
long lips. He has hired the Hope dahabeeyeh which Fisk had last

year, and the Khedive sends a steamer to tow it to Assooan.

Friday We all got through the day without serious acci-
january 13, I882 dent, starting early, stopping an hour for some
purchases at Edfoo and arriving at Esneh at

sunset. The weather was so cold we had to take breakfast down
stairs. Indeed at Assuan and Philae there was hardly any sunshine.

Saturday We stopped for two hours at Erment to call on

fanuary 14, 1882 the engineer of the Daira Sanieh’s sugar works

and are just going into Luxor. The sun shines

bright and it is warmer and we hope to get our letters which arrived

last Monday, before the postmaster locks up for his three hours’
dinner.

Afternoon We did; I three, and very glad I was to hear that the

victim across the water was at last freed from his long
torture. When life is surely doomed it seems to me cruel to try to pro-
long the agony. Let us hope that no such rack awaits any other of us.
I went to the Hotel to read the papers and saw Mr. Wesendonck at
whose house in Dresden we saw the duplicate of Correggio’s “San Giro-
lamo.” His daughter was so much improved by last winter here, that
he has brought her again and his wife and they name their dahabee-
yeh Prinz Heinrich von Prenssen. I met the Esta/13’: fair freight also
and am invited to lunch there to-day. And Dr. Lansing of the Ameri—
can Mission School has arrived in the Ida. Another Ida also bearing
the Stars and Stripes, a very spruce Ida, lies alongside us, with Bel-
mont’s wife and son and daughter and son-in-law Howland. They ﬁsh
from the side of the boat.

Sunday Cold but sunny and thank God for the sunshine.
7anuary 15, 1882 The Estelle has two invalids. Mrs. Lyde has
studied the books I recommended to her so well

that she gets on better directly with the Arabs. than through their

114

