[CHAPTER NINE

February 20, I890 rowed ahead a mile or two to El Kab. Ned and

the girls went to the tombs, but I staid within
the four mighty walls. Since I looked over the ruins the Sebakh
hunters have uncovered walls built of old stones bearing the names
of Amenophis I, and I saw loose pieces with the cartouches of
Sebekhotep II of the Thirteenth Dynasty and Nectanebo I of the
last of the Pharaohsl. We had to row back to the dahabeeyeh. As you
may guess from our slow progress, we have continuous north wind.
The Professor is getting panicky. He is tied to a ﬁxed day for his lec-
tures in Oxford and fears that all his time must be spent in going.
Linnie and Ned are pumping him a great deal; he has been all over
Greece and Asia Minor and much of Northern Africa, and is very in-
teresting. His friend has passed twenty years in South America and
is a great walker; he is the Professor’s provider—of inscriptions.2

February 21, 1890 We have been all day in the boat; I have written

these three sheets and we are not yet at Esneh,
though I have resorted to the unheard—of absurdity, tracking down
stream. Four dahabeeyehs have met us and eight steamers have
passed us, two of them with friends on board whom we recognized,
Mr. Day and family of Hartford and Mrs. Bates and daughter Alice,

who used to live in Paris. And it is only four o’clock.

Feéruary 22, 1890 We landed again at Dababeeyeh and compared

the two steles we had copied to see if we or
Daressy were nearer right3. The Professor was satisﬁed with the most
of our work especially as Daressy had failed entirely on the Greek
inscriptions. I rode two miles north to look for traces of a possible old
road for the transport of stones to Luxor, but found nothing. Then
we came on to Rizagat. The Professor took tea with us and we dis-
cussed the date of the books of the New Testament. There is for
sale at Luxor an old Greek commentary on Genesis, perhaps as old

as any of them.

I. For the history of the temples see Somers Clarke. “El-Kab and the Great Wall" in “Journal of Egyptian
Archaeology." vol. VII. 1921. pp. 54-79; id. “El-K5b and its Temples." ibidem. vol. VIII. 1922. pp.
16—40.

2. A. H. Sayoe. “Reminiscences.” London. 1923. pp. 268: "W'ilbour and I spent our days in copying in-
scriptions. and studying them in the evenings with the help of his books. while Robertson explored the
country. hunting down inscriptions and grafﬁti “like a jackal." as Wilbour phrased it. and Blashﬁeld
occupied himself in painting the inhabitants." On D. C. Robertson. see ibidem. p. 246.

3. See February 6. 1890.

556

