[CHAPTEREIGHT

with so many phrases as here. I copied what was unbroken and made
a rather complete description of what is in the tomb. Next door
north is that of Adoo, less important, but of the same Pyramid Age.
These phrases are sometimes rather strange for a tomb. Here for in-
stance the Cook stands over a black pot, just like our three-legged iron
kettles, under which a red ﬁre is blazing, and says to a man sitting
opposite holding up something red as big as his head: “Throw in the
piece of meat in your hand.”

Ten minutes west of these is an unﬁnished tomb with a long Coptic
inscription, some forty lines, twenty of them numbered, which I
shall recommend to Bouriant. We sailed on to El VVakf, below
Sabariat.

December 12, I886 Went a little east of south in one hour and a

quarter to Mahmood’s diggings. Ahmed Girgar
of Goornah greeted me by name and told me how little they were
getting. Mahmood had started for How but a “sarft” footed youthl
brought him back for ten cents in an hour, before I had ﬁnished
looking at the holes, which are many and spread over many acres.
From the things the men, mostly from Qoornah, had to sell, I judge
that this place has petered out. The scarabs had a Twelfth Dynasty
look, one especially, but it may have come from Qoornah. Mahmood
took me to Semaina, twenty minutes northwest, to see the two
thousand earthen pots which he had for Grébaut to divide. He gave
me a big basket full from which I picked out ﬁve types. Then he
came all the way to the boat, an hour by donkey, to do me honor,
and after coffee and cigarettes departed to get his stone and his
many baskets at How and Semaina, and put them in a boat and join
me at Denderah. Talking about the raid on the slaves, I said some-
thing to draw him out and he answered: “Of course I would ransom
a slave. I would give twenty pounds for my son, and why not for my
slave?” Hassan Karyme who was Governor of Assuan has been
changed to Tema, Mahmood says, at the same twenty pounds a
month, but with small chance for more. I stopped a moment at the
post ofﬁce at Dishneh and found that they had understood Nefady
whom I had sent down in the morning by felucca and in the evening
we tied up at Denderah.

x. ”sarft-footed" = soft-footed.

 

492

