[CHAPTER ONE

here has been like our best New England June weather. The evenings
and mornings are much more enjoyable and there is no dew; the air
is too dry for that.

I showed Brugsch the notes I made of the tomb I crawled into and
crowed over and he said he had been there. Perhaps. I see to-day in
the Moniteur Egyptian a communication from him to the Institut
Egyptien on the opening of the two pyramids;l he isn’t going to leave
them to Maspero.

LUXOR Tuesday to Karnak, Wednesday to Medinet-Abu
T/zursday Thursday to Karnak and so on. Yesterday I went
March 17, 1881 ﬁrst to the house of old Khaleefeh to see his mummy.
Khaleefeh is a little dried up old man, the patriach

of a group of houses behind the Colossi half way from Medinet-Abu
to Goornah. He was waiting for me with a donkey on the Island at
seven-thirty A. M. We rode past the Colossi which are on his ten
acres of ground; we saw his three camels and ﬁve donkeys, not to
speak of the wives and children of his folks. He had a new carpet
brought in and spread on the couch, a stout bed-frame laced with
leather straps. He invited me to come and live with him for one dollar
a day; he said it would save me three dollars a day. Then he intro-
duced me to all his men folks and some of the neighbors; they showed
me their books, some printed and some MSS., and after coﬁ'ee we
went into a deep tomb and there was uncovered carefully a mummy.
A rather nice mummy it had been, but the preparers had smeared'it
over with black bituminous stuff so that the inscriptions were illegi-
ble; I could not make out the woman’s name. Then I went across to
Medinet-Abu, corrected some of Diimichen’s copies and lunched with
Dr. Bartlett, the resident physician and his wife who has just come to
see him, and an English girl who was sketching Ramses III’s pots and
pans. In the evening I had declined our Consul’s invitation to dinner,
being hungry and tired, but I had not ﬁnished my soup before he

came for me and Dubois and I went with him. As before, his dinner

1. "Bulletin de l'Institut Egyptien Annéc 1881.” Cairo. 1883. p. 174; H. Brunch. "Zwei Pyramiden mil
Inschriften. aus den Zeiten der VI dynastic." in “Zeitschrift fur anyptische Sprache und Altertums-
kunde," vol. XIX. 1381. pp. 1—15. "Pyramiden mit Inschriften."in“Aua dem Morgenlande-Altes und
Neues." Leipzig. pp. 176—191—Die neuesten aegymischen Grﬁberfunde. cine ausserordentliche Beilage
zu den Monatsblﬁttern des W'issenschaftlichen Clubs in Wicn (Dec. 28. 1881). No. III 211 No. 6. Jahr-
gang III. pp. 17—22.

58

