[CHAPTER TWO

At the steamer I found that there is a prospect of one having ten
days more in Cairo. This delay is quite exasperating to Maspero who
expected to start digging at Luxor and along the way thereto, which
can ill afford this delay.

We had a very heavy rain on Monday and Monday night, like a
summer storm in America. It made the streets quite dangerous for
donkeys. As I did not fall I was able to look with complacency on
other people’s ruined clothes.

CAIRO . . . . . Tuesday Mr. Faber took me to the
Friday house of Mr. Masterman, the administrator of
Deceméer 2, 1881 the Anglo-Egyptian Bank, a capital fellow, and I
should say with one quality for his oﬂice—that

his father is President of the Bank. His wife was very lively and
agreeable and talked much of Russia where she has lived long. Mr.
Garwood, who runs the railways and railway machine shops in
Egypt, some forty—six hundred men—and his tall and unfragile wife,
were there, and we went to the Virgin’s Tree at Matareeyeh.l It was
a pleasant drive and I think I was more impressed with the beauty
of the place than even last year. To me it is the strongest proof of the
existence of Christ. For what else could have made the water which
the ox in this sakkeeyeh raises from this well, so limpid to see and so
sweet to taste, while all the other sakkeeyehs round about bring up
water which is turbid and brackish? What else could have given the
marvellous beauty to this garden, the wonderful fragrance to the
jessamine which grows about this tree? My note book is still fragrant
with the odor of its sanctity, more so, I fear, than the ﬂowers I send
you will be after their salt-sea voyage. Leaving Mrs. Masterman, to
whom the annunciation came again half a year ago, to breathe in for
the beneﬁt of her baby the balmy salvation left by the other, we
walked half a mile Eastward to the Ostrich Farm. Here we found old
ostriches seven feet high and last year’s brood ﬁve feet high and eggs
and an incubator and a brooder, and what was more to me, three
hieroglyphed stones,2 one of Ramses II, one of Seti II and one of the

1. ”At Mataria was a sycamore tree. the successor of a tree which decayed in 1665, venerated as being that
beneath which the Holy Family rested on their ﬂight into Egypt. This tree was blown down in July.
1906. and its place taken by the cutting made from the tree some years previously." Encyclopaedia
Britannica. See M. J ullien. “L'Arbre de la Vierge a Matan'eh." Caire, 4th edit. 1904.

2. G. Maspero.“Notes sur quelques points de Grammaire et d'Histoire." 5 XVII C. in the "Zeitschrift fur
ﬁgyptische Sprache." vol. XIX. 1881, p. 116.

82

