[CHAPTERSEVEN

about how when seven years old in Khartoom he was seized one day
by a Greek, put in a bag and kept there until he was sold off down the
river. At Assuan he was bought by a Cotton Cloth trader and he came
on gradually until he worked two years in one of the three kitch-
ens of the palace of Aly Pacha Shereef in Cairo. Then he was
kavass in the Dutch Consulate and then cook and his face shone
while he was telling and Dora understood most of it. In 1881 I met a
Mr. Ladd and Dr. Snow on their way to Berber to establish a school
to be carried on by freedmen from the United States. He went with
them, went on to Khartoom, saw his father and mother and the
Mahdi, and when I mentioned that the Mahdi was dead, he said
“Perhaps.” He evidently believes the Mahdi immortal.

I saw the woodcuts of Ned’s drawings of Romola, most of them
made in a corner of this Saloon a year ago, in the Christmas number
of the Magazine and sent him this on a postcard:

“Butchered to make a Scribner’s Holiday.”

December 26, 1887 You will be glad to send Emily this from Lin-

nie’s last letter:

“Last Saturday we went to a lecture at Columbia College on ‘New York after
Paris,’ by W. C. Brownell. It was capital; all the piquant contrasts that we have
all remarked, were epigrammatically stated. There was all the neatness and pun-
gency of Henry James and something more, too. We walked up to congratulate him
afterwards and as soon as we had done so, he returned the compliment and said such
very nice things of our article, that we were quite conﬁrmed in our general good
opinion of him.”

There is a north wind at last but I must go to the Post Oﬂice and
see the New Year’s cards stamped and send this.

NEARING RODAH Two days in Minieh, one windless, the last fairly
7anuary I, 1888 good, brought Aboo Shanab. The twenty-eighth,

promenading I met a Greek Doctor who recog-
nized me as having lost the book there last year and I saw the Copt
at whose house I bought Min-mes. With him was another who had a
suspicious copy of the big Amenophis III Scarab which tells that he
killed 102 lionsl, and of whom I bought a blue porcelain crosscut of lo.

1. Ten years' lion hunting—see J. H. Breasted, “Ancient Records." Chicago, 1906. vol. II. pp. 346-347...

452

