[CHAPTER TWO

Saturday I went to Karnak and spent much time in the
yanuary 21, 1882 Temple of Khonsu. A special Hathor is often
with him, she of the “Pyramidion House,” per-
haps a sort of Naos, something like that in the Sun-temple at
Heliopolis, which King Piankhi opened to see the God.1 It is odd how
the decoration of this temple, which is not very large for a Karnak
temple, lingered along from the Nineteenth Dynasty to the time of
the Ptolemies. A little Copt boy whom I saw in the school, offered
me antiquities and I bought some ostraca, Greek and Demotic. Little
Mohammed attended to the purchases, Said being at the boat.

Sunday Charmes, Bouriant and I went to the Tombs of
yanuary 22, 1882 the Kings, Western Valley. There we explored
the four tombs known ;2 there are doubtless many

more to be found by digging. For the entrance being low down, gen-
erally at the foot of a precipice, the crumbling of the rock above the
precipice has, in most cases, covered it deep with debris. Two of the
four tombs, into which I showed the boys how to descend with a lad-
der, were only begun, and when a few yards deep, abandoned, per-
haps because the King died or the rock was not found good enough.
The tomb at the end of the valley is that of the Holy Father Ai,3
whom the purists do not count a legitimate King, but who bore sway
second after Khu-en-aten nevertheless. The very handsome sarcoph-
agus has been published by Prisse and perhaps a quarter of the in-
scriptions of the Golden Room, the only room inscribed by Lepsius.
Bouriant and I completed the copy and I made a plan of the tomb,
hitherto unmapped. Then we went into the tomb of Amenophis III,‘
the Memnon whose Colossus answered the greeting of the morning
sun so many years. This tomb too was ﬁnished only in two short pas-
sages and in the Golden Room, as they were wont to call the Hall of
the Sarcophagus. Of this great hall, supported by many pillars, the

r. Hathor: See H. Brugsch. “Dictionnaire géographique." (Supplément.) Leipzig, 1880. p. 1146—1148;
Hathor is identiﬁed with the goddess Iusas of Heliopolis. The Pyramidion House was one of the principal
parts of the temple of the Sun at Heliopolis. See G. Ebers. "Eine Hathor-Astarte Spur in Assyricn"
(Hathor Iusas) in “Zeitschrift fur agyptische Sprache.” vol. VI. 1868. p. 71.

2. Tomb of Amenhotep III. of Av. and two containing no inscriptions. See A. E. P. Weigall. "A Guide to
the Antiquities of Upper Egypt." London. 1910, pp. 217-219.

3. Tomb of Ay: Porter-Moss. "Topographical Bibliography," vol. I. pp. 28-29; the sarcophagus is in the
Cairo Museum excepting a few fragments in the British Museum and in the Berlin Museum; "A Brief
description of the principal monuments." Cairo, 1930. p. 18. no. 624.

4. Porter-Moss. loc. cit., p. 28.

118

