[CHAPTER FOUR

see my lady friends of Elephantine, and brought back a few tax re-
ceipts of Roman Emperors and some fragments of papyrus. With
Baudry’s brother in law Rhoné, I boated around Elephantine at sun-
set. The guardian of Philae, who last year had lost his pretty wife.
has replaced her, and the children do not look so well, a general law, I
think. To-night Venus and the Moon almost touched and it was a
very pretty sight to see. Jupiter, Mars and Saturn too are visible in
these luminous evenings.

To—day I took Mariette’s publication of the little temple of
Assuan1 and corrected what is not covered with débris, and much
correction there was. The missionary came over and Maspero gave
him permission to take bricks from Philae to build shelter on the
mainland for the forty negroes he has brought from the Soodan.
They say English soldiers are on the way uphere. At noon we started
down stream with the Consul in tow, the Consuless lying on deck to
see a little of the strange panorama. Mme. Maspero visited her yes-
terday and thinks she is not amused. She is too pretty to get much
sympathy here. And I have three dogs against her. We rushed down
(for we go ten miles an hour down stream) through the black rocks
and yellow sands and tied up in the afternoon at Kom Ombos. I
looked carefully among the fallen stones by the water for my Litany
of Horus the Elder, noted for copying two years ago and fallen last
year, but found only two fragments, not containing complete lines. I
did ﬁnd, however, a lot of roof stones of a Khent or F orehall, mighty
and with celestial texts. I saw also stones with the names of Thoth-
mes III and Ramses 11.2 These make the great breakwater which pro-
tects what remains of the huge temples of yore. I retreated from the
westering sun which beat upon them into the pronaos of the remain-
ing temple of Sebek and Horus the Elder, an odd twin construction,
the only equal partnership house of worship I know in the land. Here
I continued work done in ’82. and ’83, copying the astronomical in-
scriptions under the architraves, half hidden by the broad capitals.
I nearly ﬁnished them before the light left me. The people have been
digging and carrying away the dust of ages from this temple so much

I. A. Mariette-pacha. “Monuments divers recueillis en Egypte et en Nubie. Texte par G. Maspero
Paris. 1889, pl. 22—26 and pp. 6-7.

2. J. dc Morgan. “Catalogue des Monuments et Inscriptions de l'Egypte antique.” Vol. II. Vienna. 1895,
pp. 250—259. Inscriptions of T hothmes Ill and Ramses II. see G. Maspero, “Notes sur quelques points

de grammaire et d'historie" in “Zeitschriit fur tigyptische Sprache." vol. XXI. 1883. pp. 78-79.
2 8 o

