[CHAPTER FOUR

did not ride, and Said knowing nothing about it, it was left there.
But probably Gad, Seleeb’s son, will look after it and send it to the
Museum. Mr. Kelly was so thoroughly used up that he could not dine
with us, but Madame stood it well. At dinner on deck we were in-
vaded by a plague of very small ﬂies that singed themselves in the
candles and then—you can imagine our plight. We have dined on
deck only since our departure from Luxor, contrary to our previous
custom. But really there has been hardly any weather warm enough
for it this year.

Saturday Before I was up we had stopped at Girzeh, found

March 29, 1884 there was nothing for us and steamed on to Men-

sheeyeh. There Said bought a pendant to the ﬁne

Greek tablet set up by the actors, which we took coming up, and the

great Greek inscriptionl found two years ago was hauled down by

ﬁfty men and put on Aly Moorad’s boat and then we came to Ekh-
meem.

The miller was at home as bright as ever, and a young French en-
gineer with him helping to put up and in order steam pumping en-
gines to supply land owners with water. He told us of Khalil’s great
success and how all Ekhmeem was agog to dig, and what a terrible
fellow Aboo Shayt was, how he had been Mudeer and plundered
people and once put a man into a burning lime kiln and was the
leader of a band of robbers and how his wicked sons were with him in
prison at Soohag and he would kill his good son Mohammed if he
could only get out. We had heard before that Mohammed gave
money to the powers that be to have his father kept in. What a good
son! no wonder he is named Mohammed.

Sunday I got up this morning at seven and spent some time
March 30, 1884 with Fresnaye, the miller who showed me some
very pretty jewelry made 1n Tahtah and 1n Girgeh

by the Coptic workmen. He 18 going to be married this summer in
France, bring his wife to stay a year until his contract runs out and
then go home to live. I put my letter containing a specimen of the
mummy plaid, and a coarse one, into the box on the postal boat and

 

I. J. G. Milne. “Greek Inscriptions—Catalogue général du Musée du Caire." Oxford. 1905. p. 17. no.
9270; pp. 18—19. no. 9284. the complete one.

300

