[CHAPTER ONE

I had not gone with him; it was too dangerous; he might easily have
been scaled up by the crumbling of the narrow passage through
which the Arabs had pulled him and perhaps the four hundred men
could not have dug away the place in time to get him out alive. A
freight train came along; he was going in on it, being on government
service; he tried to get us included in vain. After which the Arab oH-i-
cials said we might go at ﬁrst-class fare. Brugsch’s Arabs had some-
thing on a wooden sarcophagus cover covered with a cloth, a
ghastly thing; it was all that was left of him for whom the place was
built. It had been plundered thoroughly, probably in the time of the
Khalifs, perhaps before the Romans or Persians or even Egyptians,
but now after forty-ﬁve hundred years, it ﬁrst saw again the light of
day. That which thousands of men had labored to hide, was here on
one side of this freight car in which we were grouped with two
Kookiyeh who had been to guide a Cook’s party to Sakkarah, and a
few Arabs. My Ameen sat on his feet and covered his head and slept;
the donkeys were to come on the passenger train. In this August
Presence we came to Cairo. He, who had slept in the third Millenium
before our Era, had found the resurrection of the body he had
guarded so well, a resurrection in a railway train.l

Thursday Yesterday morning Brugsch came to see me and
7471145202 6, 1881 recounted the dangers of his Tuesday’s visit; an
entrance with ups and downs and now and then a
narrow well leading upward heaven knows where, through which
stones and dust occasionally rattled down, threatening a separation
from the rest of the world; and in the great room the sides taken
away and the upper part hanging ready to fall. He advised strongly
not to try to go in, said I ought not to peril my life and it would take
six months to clear it out and stay it up to get ready to receive visitors
safely. He was indeed thoroughly tired and coughed much, so much
that he thought he should go back to Berlin where at Charlottenburg
he had a good house which was warm while here he often shivered
with the cold. His cough, for which he had come, was no better here.
I advised him rather to go to Luxor with me. But he wants to be at
work and he has brought no books with him.

I. H. Brugsch. “Mein Leben und mein Wandern." Berlin. 1894, pp. 349—351 tells the same thing about
marrying to Cairo the mummy of King Methesuphis of the VI dynasty.

18

 

