FEBRUARY.1884 T0 MAY 1884]

Sunday Early I looked out my window and we were in the
April 27, I884 canal approaching Venice; I was not out in time to
see the approaches. But Venice is hardly Venice in

gray light and there was no sun. At eight the Custom House had
done its duty on board, my baggage was in a gondola and I had found
at the Post Oﬂice your two letters and two from Ned. I went to our
old hotel near the Belle Arti; it was occupied by private families who
knew not the Albergo dell’Universo and so I went to the Swiss
Pension, alias the Albergo di Roma on the Grand Canal and not far
from the Piazza. There there was no room but one of the Americans, .
Rev. Dr. John C. Bliss, who preaches at Plainﬁeld, New Jersey, said
there were two beds in his and I stayed. Before night they gave me a
whole room. A good place it would be were there not so many Eng-
lish. I went to St. Marks and found the wavy pavement quite suited
to the state of my brain. General Graham, the hero of the Sooakim
Campaign, who, the papers said, had been sent for by his government
to concert the relief of Gordon was busy examining it. I did not ﬁnd
that the restorations, which called forth such loud British remon—
strance four years ago, had changed the general effect. That was
marred only by the tramp of the huge feet, and the glare of the ac-
companying red books. With what impudence their bearers nose
about as if the great temple with its treasures and its devotees were

only a Mme. Tussaud’s they had paid their shillings to jest at.

Monday The news from Vienna was colder and at one o’clock
April 28, 1884 after seeing again St. Marks and the Doge’s Palace,
I was going second class to Florence. How beautiful

was the lagoon and how beautiful the verdure of the land. Apple and
peach blossoms had ventured out in the cold. I had no interesting co-
travellers till Bologna where a wedding party got in. The bride was
very pretty, blonde and young and fond and as some of the young
men got out at Pistoia and ﬁnally the last bade farewell to his cara
cugina, they stroked each others’ chins quite regardless of their gray-
beard spectator. I found Linnie and Ned at 21 Pandolﬁni, she quite
well and he prevented from sketching by fever, which follows him
nearly every day. I was very glad to see them again. Gridley, who
had given me the prescription that cured my foot had been as far as
Capri and was back with his mother and sister and Mrs. Hawes

319

