DECEMBER 1880 TO APRIL 1881]

After this scene, well worth the painting, we came back by the
foul outskirts of the village and across old Memphis where amid the
old stones and mounds twenty or thirty Bedaween huts were pitched
to Bedreshayn and boat; we said good-bye and I came back with
Rostowitz in the freight train. As before, the sunset was a scene of
enchantment. The desert horizon of Pyramids, the green foreground
of wheat and palms, the movement human and animal, and the glow
and glory of the Sun mirrored in the sleeping Nile, all make up some-
thing more dream-like than real. Today I have been lazy. Essaid
waited yesterday to see me about the stones of Gizeh; I bought a
few small things of him today, the best a scarab inscribed “The Mis—
tress of the City of Bast (protectress or amulet) of life.” The Consul
showed me his carpets. I shall help him on his antiquities and take
my pay in help in carpets, which he has studied. I have arranged to go
to Sakkarah tomorrow again with Ameen and Essaid to see the
tablets he has to show me there.

Friday And so I did, trotting over three miles to the
yanuary 14, I881 train, donkey and boys on board to Bedreshayn,
again to Sakkarah, where grave and reverend

Seigniors of Bedaween received me and showed me stones of more or
less value—mostly stuff. But it was a very queer experience, my ﬁrst
day alone among Arabs. How they pretended to be afraid and how
they wanted to sell one thing before they showed another. Piece by
piece things came out, sandals, a gilt hand, mummy cloth, slabs,
scraps of papyri, a broken Greco—Roman vase repeating the God Bes,
heads of statues, feet of mummies; all this in different houses with
glimpses of domestic arrangements, women grinding broom—corn at
the hand—mill, some young girls with bright faces, the women all
ugly, the head men with the most inborn gentlemanliness, the ﬁnest
manners I have yet seen in this world. I bought a few things to vindi-
cate my right to be there and copied everything copiable; I shall
turn over what I bought to the Consul, who is collecting for an
American Museum. Then Essaid went away towards his village,
which is at the foot of the Gizeh pyramids and I went to Bedre-
shayn and to the river and looked towards Helwan. But the strong
west wind was ﬁlling the air with sand to the East over the barren

25

