[CHAPTER THREE

have called ﬁrst on him; I think his mother sent him; she takes care
of her family, her son and her grandchild and her grandchild’s play-

mate mother.

Sunday Friday Brugsch talked with me very bitterly. He
7anuary 7, 1883 said his life-long study had led to nothing; he had
no place. And so he had broken with science and

to destroy the bridge behind him, had burned his papers. I cannot
believe it is true. I saw Judge Batcheller who gave me a history of
the Egyptian summer mildly attacking the English. Then I got in,
showed how the events were a logical sequence, each being a neces-
sary stepping—stone to the next and made the British responsible for
all—murder, pillage, arson and the great butchery. Whereupon he
took up a Troy Timer twenty days old in which was an unsigned
letter written by him and read me back my own words. Of course
my opinion of Judge Batcheller is much higher than it was. Then he
told me of a new British crime. All the powers except Britain had
agreed to prolong the mixed court for ﬁve years. She would do it for
one year only and as everything about these courts must be unani-
mous one year it is. So all foreign creditors, fearing these courts may
be abolished next year, are ﬂocking in for judgment against their
Arab debtors and selling their lands at Sheriff’s sale. This has in-
creased six-fold since England’s determination was known. The war
deranged harvests and the Arab farmer needs time which he would
get but for the fear of the money-lenders that their only means of
collecting debts may be taken away. The Judge had twenty-ﬁve
judgments to render, his share for the week. Saturday morning
Comanos was to have taken me to see Ibrahim Pasha who has a
papyrus. I went to his house and waited an hour. But Mrs. Comanos,
a slender little woman with piquant Greek-English told me all about
the pretty people here, illustrating with photographs. The young
wives of the Princes Hassan and Hussein who are here while their
husbands are exiled to Italy with Ismael were especially interesting,
the more so as she told me Hussein’s wife knew her husband was for-
getting her. ’Tis a bad thing when a sovereign must exile his brothers
for fear they will depose him. She too as well as Mme. VVacyf had a
large photograph of the Princess Nazly Hanem, daughter of Musta-

186

