[CHAPTEREIGHT

us how the Khedive from his boat lying near them at Helooan, sent
for her brother and when they went amused them with his dwarf
jester and afterwards sent her twenty little gold coins which she is
going to have made into bracelets.

LUXOR I loafed in the morning and in the afternoon at

7anuary 11, 1889 Karnak found that the upper hieroglyphics on

the Khonsu propylon were too much for my

opera glass. Lottie and Dora took out the McLarens in the felucca.

His mother is John Bright’s sister and he a law-lord. He is going to
try to measure the soft silver light of the moon.

yanuary I2, 1889 I got a piece of joist at Aboo Shanab’s house, the

second story of which is begun, and made a con-
nection between my telescope and my photographic stand. In the
afternoon I took it to Karnak and succeeded in ﬁlling nearly all the
lacuna in the bas-reliefs copied by Lepsius. He had left almost one
third as illegible besides mistakes in the other two thirds. Lottie and
Dora took out the Appletons with the felucca, Crete with them. In
the evening the lively little postmaster, Mr. Bolos (Coptic for Paul)
called and I extracted from him much essential information about
his native Fayoom, and its attar1 of roses and lemon ﬂowers.

yanuary 13, 1889 I went to Karnak rather late in the morning and

corrected the high bas-reliefs on the east propy-
lon, given by Lepsius, getting thereby a little more sciatica sitting
in the wind. Lottie and Dora entertained visitors, Mr. Insinger and
Mr. Jerningham, an old New York lawyer who has lived ten years
in Florence and has a villa on the Via Dante da Castigliore, No. 7.
He claimed Brown University brotherhood and was surprised that I
should know what a scamp Tilden was, this afterwards. A sciaticky
old man with a rough way and a good head. Then they went to see
Aly Moorad’s wife and daughter and her seventy dresses. Mr. Gard-
ner came in the afternoon and gossiped much about the hotel folk and
the reception and dinner to be given the black battalion from Sua-
kim, whose chief, called Colonel Donne, has a wife and baby in the

 

I. Attar—Arabic for fragrance.

502

