[CHAPTER FIVE

recently a chapel where the offerings were made every ten days and
the funerary ceremonies performed. The slope being towards the
rock, the mummies were not more than twenty yards from the

chapel.

In the evening Aly had a fantaiseeyeh at which were many Ameri—
cans. The pious Mr. Atterbury’s daughter and Mrs. Flandran and
her two boys whom I saw at Shepheard’s and Mr. Burke whom
Judge Kinsman commended to me. His wife leaves ﬁve babies at
Lugano to bring him here for troubles and ﬁnds Luxor the best place
yet. Then there are more and one Helen; Toda tells me it is lucky she
is going to-day or he would be too much interested. He ﬁnds Ameri-
can women the most charming of all, but would hesitate to take one
to his quiet town of Rens in Catalonia; life would be so strange and

lonely.

He has just told me about Cabrera,1 the Carlist. A student for the
priesthood, he became a guerilla chief and defeated Vignas the
Liberal General. Vignas put a price on his head. He put a price on
Vignas’ head. Vignas seized his mother, and shot her; he tried by a
multitude of atrocities to get square. After seven years of ﬁghting he
ceased. The rebel king had made him Count ofMorelia, and this title
was afterwards recognized by the government. He went to live in
England and married an English woman, a Protestant. His sons are
liberals and in the diplomatic service and a Republic in Spain would
not be likely to displace them. He died some time ago at seventy.
There is a very heavy tax on titles in Spain; they call it the Tax of
Vanity. By which Toda has explained to me something. It costs
more to be a Duke than to be a Count.

Yesterday and to-day I have been in Karnak correcting the text
that Lepsius prepared for correction.

The postal boats are now ﬁlled with people coming up to Luxor.
In December and January, better months to be away from Cairo,
they did not come. \Ve shall probably leave here next Monday and
not be back till near the end of the month, stopping for work at El
Kab and Assuan.

I. Roman Cabrere. Carlist general (1806—1877).

360

 

