[CHAPTER EIGHT

lngs and lose the better part of the six-mile breeze this day. Insinger
is at Wasta or was on the ninth. I think he intends to stop near Beni
Sooef. Fritz is in town but I have not seen him! Dr. Grant lost his
gold things last summer, stolen and house set on ﬁre with petroleum.l
I have got a harder2, comparatively smokeless coal, and hope to get
the Sewing Machine in order. We may want a new taraa’da. I have
four new old carpets, seven £3, and some other things for looks
and comfort. I shall have time after I am on board to give you a full
list of what you will need to bring from Cairo. I can ﬁnd no Souchong
or Oolong or Orange Pekoe Tea and have taken none. They must
come from Europe. I strongly advise you to come by the same Japan
Line I did; there is a boat the second and the sixteenth of December,
the last rather too late. I think there is generally room. Mr. Cook was
kind enough to give the same orders as last year. You can come up in
a Tourist Boat, if there be not a crowd of round trip passengers, or
you can come by rail and one of his express boats which are new and
ﬁner than last year. I hope to be above Sioot this time. I could almost
have gone up there in the last four days.

The Victory is glorious, with a majority in both houses. Dakota
becomes a State and gives us two more Senators and three or four
representatives in addition. And we can tinker the Tariff our way.

SEVEN HATHORS I expected to start at noon but it was sunset
Saturday before everybody’s delays were over. It took
Noveméer I7, 1888 Grébaut two hours to show me all the new
things, the knee-high statues of the fourth and

ﬁfth Dynasty Kings2 from the temple of Ptah at Memphis which we
have looked over so often, the strange, Ekhmeemish mummy case
heads from Old Cusae", the Fourteenth Nome of Upper Egypt which
seems to yield anteekeh now for the ﬁrst time. And other things,
many besides. He has secured a few fragments, with Greek letters,
of the casing-stones of the Great Pyramid“, just enough to show that
there was a great inscription and that it is not. The Department of
Public Works gives out contracts for building, the stones to be taken

1. See Letter of December 2. 1881.

2. E. Grébaut. “Le Musée Egyptien." vol. 1. Text by G. Maspero. Cairo, 1890-1900. pl. VIII-XII and
DD- 9—12-

3. lbidem. pl. XXXII and pp. 28-29.

4. L. Borchardt. "Lﬁngen und Richtungen der vier Grundkanten der Grosser: Pyramide bei Ciao." Berlin.
1926. pp. 17-20.

474

