[CHAPTER TWO

Mme. Maspero to conversation. Mme. d’Estournelles whispers
to me that these two wives had quite the appearance of hating
each other. “Elles avaient l’air de se détester parfaitement.” The
younger wore a placque of diamonds three or four inches in diameter
on a chain of gold and brilliants two yards long. When they had
come out they noticed that the guardian of the hareem locked the
door with a double turn. Then we took place at a round table
not too large for each one with ﬁngers or spoon to reach the dish
in the centre. And the menu which I got in Turkish, Arabic and
French from Ahmed EHendi must tell the rest. I made a very
good dinner. The Mudeer pressed choice titbits, chosen indeed with
his own fairish ﬁngers, upon Madame and me, and Ahmed the Judge
extended his manual attentions over the table generally. Then there
were compliments and long pauses and ﬁnally M. Maspero came and
consulted the ladies and they concluded to stay for some music and
dancing. So we did till eleven. The music was led by the old Rooway-
ha of Qoos, whose absence has been very much felt in Luxor this
winter and whose facility in ﬁngering and lively expression would
certainly bring down a house in Europe or America. Mustapha Aga’s
eldest son, the Mamoor at Keneh, whom I saw for the ﬁrst time,
estimated for me that he earned as much as eighty dollars a year.
The choicest danseuses of Keneh were there, but I thought only one
superior to those I had seen in Luxor. She, however, Freedya, was far
more graceful and expressive than any I had seen and it was a real
pleasure to watch her movements. Like all premiere danseuse she was
plain, but more than most of them she was lithe and slender and she
kept her eyes nearly covered by the lids, while she did with grace and
elegance what most do with washer-womanly jerkiness. She added
to the candle dance a succession of swooning ectasies which I have
not seen elsewhere attempted. But tastes differ. Aly Moorad, who
came in in the evening, with the VVekeel and two or three others,
told me he thought the best dancer another, who seemed to be looked
up to by the rest, and whose voluminous ﬂesh rippled in cadence with
the stirring scrape of old Roowayha, after the most orthodox and
conventional rule. We stopped on the way to the boat at the house of
Aly EHendi, the Museum’s soldier—guard of Denderah, to take coffee.

152

