OCTOBER 1881 TO APRIL 1882]

a considerable work which I began in Paris in the summer of ’81 and
nearly ﬁnished last spring. I put them into my Brugsch’s Dictionary.

Saturday We were not warm this morning, but when Mo-
February 4, I882 hammed the cook brought in a plate of ice, thick
as window-glass, we shivered with the cold. 80
Maspero did not go to the Pyramid but spent the morning explaining
why he makes Ra at the end of the Kings’ names in Egyptian ri pro-
nouncing it ree.l He supported it by the Greek transcriptions of these
names which end in rec, but Naville doubted and I showed, by the
way the Greeks wrote other Kings’ names, that they made ee out of
an Egyptian 00 or even f or lzor. Still the fact remains that the Greeks
had a mania for ending Egyptian names in ca which they had not for
Jewish or Persian or Roman names.

After dinner I descried the Ibis ﬂoating down slowly against the
wind. Our helmsman had gone on board to embrace a friend. The
bride’s sister saluted me and Mr. Chapin asked if Guiteau2 were hung.
I answered that he had been found guilty, offered them my last
Register and invited them to go over and see the Pyramid. The bride
didn’t come, wasn’t feeling well. They had had a delightful time; the
old man seemed quite happy about it; on his way up the river he
wasn’t so enthusiastic. I showed them the Pyramid and Maspero and
gave them some letters to post and we hope to get through in time to
see them again at Luxor where they stop a week. To-day the wall 6
has been taken down to the top of my oval and at night we dug out
some promising stones behind d just to the left of my oval. We hope
to get to the bottom to-morrow with the wall 6 and perhaps see some
way into d. Mme. D’Estournelles went into the village with Said and
he showed her all the women’s work and took her into the three
Sheikhs’ houses, and the hareem showed her all their ﬁne things and
ﬁne clothes and tried them on that she might see how they looked,
and made themselves as agreeable as they could. Said now speaks

French.

1 . See G. Maspero. “Notes sur quelques points de grammaire et d'histoire." 5100/ in "Zeitschrift fﬂr agyp-
tische Sprache." vol. 20. 1882, pp. 124—128.
2. Charles J. Guiteau who shot the new president Garﬁeld on July 2, 1881.

127

 

