[CHAPTER TWO

LUXOR Tuesday I went to Karnak.

Friday Wednesday morning they told me, when I came up,
March 10,1882 that Said had been beaten the night before, and
soon the Captain had brought the Mac’in;l and
Said, with a whip cut on the neck and breast and back and arm,
and looking woefully was telling his story, which the little Coptic
scribe reduced into his picturesque calligraphy. The enclosed draft of
letter will tell you something about it, and what employed the Maén
most of the rest of the day. Towards night a brother of Boukrato
(which is Greek for Hippocrates) came and fooled us with an idea of
settlement. Of course I loafed around and did not even go to Karnak.
Thursday morning I went over to get the names of the Greek
whipsters and the Maén pretended to know but one. Nobody, he
said knew the name of the other. I suspected he was working for the
Greeks and demanded a copy of the testimony. He said he would
come to the boat at one o’clock with the original; he had no author-
ity to give a copy. At ﬁve I went for the Heathen Chinee. He was
getting shaved amid Mustapha’s preparations for the Little Pilgrim
Princes2 but would come as soon as the latter was off. And he did, to
the boat. Then he concluded he could give a copy, which when we
got, we found that he had added another deposition giving the name

of the man, whose name nobody knew in the morning.

This morning I spent with young Todros who read over to me the
Arabic document and we made it into shorthand English. It is very
interesting as a specimen of the Arab way of doing things. Afternoon
I copied it out long, and it would be much read among law reports in
a civilized paper. Then I have written a letter to Consul General
Wolf asking him to back me up with my letter to the Greek Consul
enclosed, and as it was hot and mosquitoey last night and nobody
slept much, not even I, this letter will not bore you long. I had a
pleasant visit with Wm. Walter again Wednesday and Thursday as
he passed down and Monday or Tuesday we shall hoist our anchor,
or rather up stakes, and after going up to Rizagat, near Erment,
straight on our northward voyage which will take some time as we

1. Mabn for Mu‘fmin. assistant; Mu‘éwin el Bolis being a subaltern ofﬁcer of the Police Department or
better a petty police magistrate under the authority of the Kadee. See Lady Duff-Gordon's "Letters
from Egypt." Revised edition by janet Ross. London. 1902. p. 115. with the spelling: maohn.

2. The princes Albert and George of England. the sons of Edward. Prince of Wales. the future Edward VII.

142

