FEBRUARY 1884 TO MAY 1884.]

The sunset at Bedresheyn was something to remember. Nowhere
except at Luxor have I seen such wonderful color of water, earth and
sky. The glory of Egypt which seemed to have ﬂed before the red
coats from Cairo, had taken refuge here, here where the sun sinks
through palms and behind pyramids. Venus came forth in the west
amid a more delicate and tender rose than when she ﬁrst waked into

life.

BEDRESHEYN Barrére came with his party in the morning and
Monday Maspero was off to guide them before I was up.
Feéruary 10, 1884 My heel had closed up again and I did not care
to take a ﬁve hours’ ride ...... Mme.

Maspero and I examined the Hope which she thought much more
commodious than the steamer, the ceilings being a foot higher and
the windows three times as large; there was a white cloth on the
table and white coverlids on the beds. Mme. de Rochemonteix whose
dahabeeyeh was near came to breakfast with her little Marie
Maxence and Jean. While de R. was at Edfoo he taught the old
guardian of the temple that “son” was “roi” in French and “daugh-
ter” was “reine.” Three years ago I heard him tell the old man
about the “reine.” Asked if there was any “roi” de R. answered;
“lissa” “not yet.” Little Jean is the lissa, as I reminded Mme. de R.
who looked down as she acknowledged it. That day she took her
siesta in the temple, but among all the names of the bright-eyed little
boy I did not hear “Horus of Edfoo,” his real god-father.

The consular party called on us before dinner and we took tea with
them after. Barrére talked English so much like an Englishman that
in the dusk I thought he was his Secretary and gave him my views
strong. He did not agree with me that the rate of interest would be
reduced, and that the French would not come back again; it was in
contemplation. His wife and her sister and a protegée of Nubar and
architect Baudry and his wife and the Russian consul—general,
scented with opopponax so as to give Mme. Maspero a headache,
and Guy Lussac, and Le Chevalier and the French Secretary were
the party.

This morning some who slept on our boat went back and M.
Baudry, a brother of Paul the Painter, came over to us and at six we

263

