DECEMBER 1880 TO APRIL 1881]

more while the rest were resting for the cool of four o’clock, to re-
turn. I think I saw in the Tomb of Set-Nekht a fourth copy of the
Funeral Book of which Schiaparelli has gathered together three
copies. I was surprised to ﬁnd the tombs so comfortable. Large par-
ties suffocate you with their dust and clamor and the smoke of their
candles, magnesium wire and Bengal lights, but with four or ﬁve
there is no reason why one may not work in them all day. The
greater heat outside makes them seem not too warm and one sees
better with moderate light; generally one candle is preferable to two.
It is wonderful how well Champollion1 describes them; with most of
the texts I found that I was already familiar. What I most feel the
need of now is of going over everything and seeing what there is; my
photography seems a secondary consideration. The ruin of these
tombs is appalling; most of them were done on stucco which has in
many places peeled off and ﬁlls the ﬂoors—Seti’s the best, has been
ruthlessly plundered; the smooth pieces one sees in the Museums of
Europe have left ghastly gaps here. But I have seen only a few, and
how little of these few! Of a thousand square yards of hieroglyphics
in a tomb how much may one read in half an hour? Red and green
and blue, the Bengal lights give you a dazzling picture, and then you
must go out or cease to breathe.

Sunday I was glad to rest and to look over in Champollion a small
part of his description of these tombs; in the afternoon nine of us, in-
cluding the little sick Doctor who seems much stronger, went over to
see the sunset from the West Pylon of Karnak. The sunsets from the
front gate of the Hotel are delightful; it is the view of Bridgman’s
“Funeral of a Mummy.”2 My tall Belgian, Mr. Elsen, arrived in the
morning and went with us. He insists on taking me up as far as
Assuan.

To-day we four went over with and without the Cookeeyeh to see
the Colossi, the Ramesseum, the Temple of Hathor at Deir-el Medi-
net and the great constructions of Medinet—Abu. At lunch time the
Cook’s party is a convenience; at other times—the ruins are wide. At
the Colossi I bought for a piastre (ﬁve cents) a nice piece of mummy

1. J. F. Champollion (1790-1832). the Frenchman of genius who discovered the secrets of hieroglyphic
writing. The description alluded to is in “Monuments de l'Egypte et de la Nubie. Notices descriptives. "
Paris. from 1844 to 1875.

2. Frederick Arthur Bridgman (1847—1928). the American painter. who visited Egypt in 1873-1874 and
exhibited in the Paris Salon (1877). “The Funeral Procession of a Mummy on the Nile."

31

l.‘ .1 l l \El‘ T 1' Air ‘ 7. ll l 91 l. l

