[CHAPTERSIX

Insinger’s steam engine was being put into his boat, but so slowly
that he could not hope to be ready in less than ﬁve days. He under-
took to have a tin box made to put a rolled picture in that Ned wan ts
to paint and send to London by Thomas Cook 8: Son. A handsome
ofﬁcer of the Welsh regiment accosted me with the news that Lord
Iddesleighl was dead and took me to the Military Telegraph where I
saw the news bulletins for some days past, how Von Moltke2 was
threatening the bad boys of the Reichstag with war if they did not
pass his little army bill right away and just as he had drawn it, and
how that the English soldiers were to evacuate Egypt above Cairo by
April and to leave but few battalions even in Cairo and Alexandria.
This last was good news for the soldiers and still better to all the
Egyptians to whom I told it. The British have still an immense
quantity of stores at Assuan and I am told that the transports have
gone up (Thos. Cook & Son) to bring them down.

To-night we have just tied up in Soohag where we hope to get some
mail by the postal boat at nine o’clock and whence I shall send this in
the morning. Linnie seems to be very well and is able to read aloud

much of the time.

At Sioot we got the photograph of the Clam Bake Party at Frank’s
and the Christmas Cards Amelia sent to the rest. When Insinger
comes up I hope that we may make some photographs to send you.
At present we have lost so much time by lack of wind that I am
anxious to get up as quickly as possible so that we may know just
how much time we have for work at the main places, Philae, Edfoo,

Thebes and Denderah.
We have received the January Harper’: and Century and we get
Calignani; so you see we have something of America.

PASSING BELIANEH Four years ago the bulky Copt Abd el Noor
yanuary 18, 1887 who was then the French and is now U. S.
Consular Agent, took us across from his house

in Girgeh to Mesheykh3 where he showed us a very ﬁne rock tomb

I. Stafford Henry Northoote, First Earl of Iddesleigh, British Statesman (IBIS-1887). "In Lord Salis-
bury's 1886 ministry he became secretary of state for foreign affairs. but the arrangement was not a
comfortable one. and his resignation had just been decided upon when on the 12th of January. 1887, he
died very suddenly at Lord Salisbury‘s ofﬁcial residence in Downing Street." Encyclopaedia Britannia.

2. Helmuth Carl Bernhard. Count von Moltke. Prussian F ield-marshal (1800—1891).

3. Mechaikh or Aoulad Yehia. see H. Gauthier, ”Dictionnaire des noms géographiqes." vol. II. Cairo. 1925.

p. 88; vol. 1V. Cairo. 1927. p. 76.
420

