[CHAPTER FIVE

ally ﬁnd geographical information. But as it lay, I found there was
an inscription on the left side of which I could not get all and the
Bey proposed that if I would wait and come again to his picnic Sun-
day, he would have it raised Saturday so that I could see it. I don’t
like to have anybody read more than I, and so I had to stay. Coming
back I found that the horses could run as well as canter. In the even-
ing Judge Kinsman took me to Judge Barringer’s.1 He seems decrepit,
but his wife is active enough for two—and almost big enough. She
paints and showed me her pictures and the wonderfully ﬁne and
cheap furniture she bought in Venice and told me all about Judge
Batcheller, and asked me to let her know a little in advance when I
was coming down. She was very cordial and he too, but he has not
much strength left after holding himself together. Her paintings are
good amateur; I suppose Dora would ﬁnd them faded; Iwish she
could do half as well. They buy Egyptian antiquities of Emil
Brugsch and such. But they have a very nice apartment, Egyptianly
furnished. You would like to see her things. Saturday I looked about
for antiquities; found a few things in the shop of Elia Pantazi, which
I copied then and to-day, without buying. Pietro Makri, who used
to have nice things, has gambled away his goods, and now has no
sign; he told me he spent ﬁfteen thousand francs digging at Abookeer
and then these coast guarders digging for stone for their fort, hit
upon this big statue.

Sunday I went to the Abookeer picnic, by rail, the Sunday trains
suiting. F iorillo the photographer was on board, going to photograph
the “idol.” At Sidi Gaber we took up the Bey and his Ramleh party
and when we got out at Abookeer, the British Consul Cookson and
Mrs. Whately a pretty Irish Kathleen whom I had seen at Mr.
Middlemass’ Friday on our return, made a little detour with me to
look for traces of the Canopic mouth. We did not look into it as it
was not open, but guessed where it ought to be and then came around
by a piece of mosaic. Mrs. Whately had cleared some days before to
the “idol.” They had not raised it Saturday, but the ex-naval Bey
made the work go lively. He told me he had taken a twenty-ton stone
from the temple of Ephesus; this weighs less than ﬁve, I think. We
found stuccoed sandstone pillars for another temple and a stairway

 

1. Victor Barringcr. American jurist. former Attorney-General of North Carolina. appointed to the Inter-
national Court of Appeals on june 24. 1875. retired January 3:. I894.

338

