[CHAPTER TWO

but one excursion, suffers much from the dust and suspects her maid.
I showed her how to get oﬁ next Monday if not next Wednesday.
The sun is just setting; the sunset is always beautiful here. Mme.
Maspero and Mme. Rhoné are at work at the table at which I write;
Mme. d’Estournelles and Mlle. Rhoné are out sketching; M. Mas-
pero has gone up to Karnak to see some diggings he is making there
and the rest are distributed. I called on the Wiedemanns yesterday.
..... Alfred had gone to Karnak where I had seen him in the
morning; they scolded that he went out in the dust. It does not seem
to hurt my throat here as it does in Paris. Perhaps it is cleaner.

LUXOR Tuesday I went to Karnak. The cold winds gave
Friday place to warm delightful weather. At night the Cook
Marc}: 3, 1882 steamer Nil came down and poor Mrs. Moulton was
overjoyed when I found her a place in it; they had

telegraphed her a refusal. Now that she is gone, we have had soft,
still, healing air every day. In the afternoon M. Maspero was seized
with a sciatic crick in the back which was very painful and would not
let him sit or stand. Luckily there was no French physician about

and he did nothing for it.

Wednesday, March Ist, I worked over a granite statue which has
an interesting but much injured inscription. It is Aly Moorad’s and
I gave him some surplus Museum bronzes and ﬁgurines for it; these
he distributed to his guests at night, after the fantaiseeyeh which
followed the dinner of which I send you the menu apart. Wm. Walter
Phelps was there and gave me an account of Wolf’s dinner for the
twenty-second of February in the New Hotel at Cairo. The decora-
tions were so magniﬁcent that he thought the Egyptian government
must have furnished them. And, he said, the enthusiasm for “liberty
like American liberty” was something wonderful. It is such freedom,
he thinks, that Arabi Bey wishes to win for Egypt. The dinner here at
Luxor was very good and Mme. d’Estournelles, who went with me,
and who seems to know something about cookery, thought it very
strange to ﬁnd so many ﬁne dishes in Luxor. M. Rhoné and his wife
and daughter were in to see the fantaiseeyeh; the dancing girls had
on their ﬁnest dresses.

I38

