OCTOBER 1881 TO APRIL 1882]

Tuesday Up at seven and leave the Hotel at eight to pass the
A'pril I8, 1882 dread ordeal of the Custom House with antiquities
and without a passport. The Hotel man takes me to

the Custom House, describes me to the scrutinizee of passports as an
antico viaggiatore d’Egitto, antico always, puts me on a boat where
are my unopened traps, takes me to the Péluse and delivers them to
one of his waiters, all for ﬁve and one-half francs, out of which he is
supposed to bribe the customhouse by some innocents. And here'I
am with a good room all to myself, the same place at table and
number of napkin-ring which I had when Gérome picked his teeth to
Egypt in 1880. Mrs. Patterson who has the berth I then had is next
me at breakfast, which is good and for which we have a good appe-
tite. For we have come out of the placid harbor into an equally
placid Mediterranean. It is warm but not damp, and it is a delight to
breathe the caressing, dustless air, and to look into the turquoise
depths of the water, as the famous Pharos fades away to naught in
the line between sky and sea. Few folks. At table on the Captain’s
right Mme. de Bligniéres sports her happy face and her well-crimped
wig (Mrs. P ..... says) and sons and daughter four, then with a
tall American ﬁgure and handsome Greek face Mme. Spartiali; M.
F rauger, red—haired and attentive to her in French; C. E. W. red-
tarbooshed; Margaret and Wilson Patterson, a handsome English-
man with a young face and gray hair, as though he were either
powdered or enameled “like a Sévres picture” (Mrs. P ..... ); and
then an English man and wife who have been whittled out sharp by
the heat of three years in Queensland. On his left (the Captain’s)
Gérome’s old place is graced by the Baroness Malortie, whose soft
gold-tinted hair has lighted up Shepheard’s all winter. A pretty doll
face whose mouth has been drawn down by a bad temper, I say;
Mrs. P ..... suggests that her husband has the gout. She is Scotch;
they have called her stupid but she poses well. Then d’Airolles the
disused Secretary of De Bligniéres Board of Control, tall and of
small volume, then the stupid docteur, then Mme. & M. Nachenius1
neutral-tinted in dress and self; then a handsome Sinadino, younger
brother of Mme. Spartiali, the ridges in whose forehead explain why
her luxuriant hair is trained so low; then Sinadino, an abridged edi-

 

I. B. Nachenius, Dutch traveller, author of “Herinneringen uit Abyssinié en Nubié. Amsterdam. 1878.

173

w .1 El , T

; . : ‘ ,'! I .' _ ‘ .r
r 1' =5 ~ 1. He: [.1 . 3*
‘_| .j'l . “ , 7 ‘l 7,1121.

