[CHAPTER FOUR

the French Consul’s wife didn’t come to see her, and M. B. who has
charge of the Daira Saneeyeh’s sugar works here, has very pleasant
eyes. After which we continued southwards to Gebeleyn, the Twin
Mountains, where there is a ﬁnd. Mustapha Aga who is employed by
the four men from Gurnah who have found it, to protect their rights
went into the town to sleep with a friend.

At eight o’clock this morning I came out and found all the choco-
late cups empty but mine. However, Said had put my saddle on a
donkey and as the rest, except Mme, walked, I overtook them at the
tomb. The hole had not been made large enough to take the mum-
mies out, so Maspero supposes them in their original state. It is
south of the village Mehala1 and was the burial place of Asfoon. The
mummies had been packed in close. . . . . . As they came out we
looked sharply for names, but found only one a Mme. Neskhonsoo,
who was a Pallacide of Amon. Most of the rest were Pallacides of
Amon also, indicating a convent of them. But as we found in one a
big pair of shoes and three stout sticks such as the men walk with
now, it may be that the mummy cases were stolen and made to serve
for others than their original possessors. Anyway sixteen were taken
out of the hole and Brugsch made a photograph of which I will send
you a blue print, if his paper works tomorrow. Then Maspero paired
them and gave Mustapha his choice of each pair. And then they
opened another hole and took twenty from it. It was an interesting
sight to see, for besides the participants there were half a hundred
black spectators, all intent to discern what would come out next. And
as the men from the boat bore away the Museum’s share, it was a
curious inversion of the funeral procession. So the deck is well cov-
ered with them and the boat begins to look antiquarian. As we
steamed away Mustapha, whose share had been brought down to a
boat by which a horse was prancing, while he was gravely smoking
under a tree, made a picture worth remembering. Baudry thinks he
looks comically like an aged monkey.

We came up here and I went to the Temple. I found that running
after my donkey at the Find had almost sprained my ankle which is
not so strong as it will be. I copied a little, till the westering sun ceased
to light the sacred script. And I carefully veriﬁed what I had noted

I. Mehala is connected by Maspero with Gebelein. see the report quoted for February 22. For Asfoon see
Murray. "Egypt.” 188:, p. 506.

276

