OCTOBER 1881 TO APRIL 1882]

gone back to the Kafr at the foot of the Pyramid. Elsen has come and
is going to the Soudan this time, and little Dubois who wants to go to
Japan, but fears cholera. He took me down to the Musée to-day and
out on the Shoobra Road. Not many carriages; it has suddenly come
cold. Saw M. Montbard who is enthusiastic over Alexandria; he found
so much to sketch. He came third—class from there here to make pic-
tures of the Arabs in the cars. They were much huddled and he paid
for his opportunity in discomfort.

I had a bad dream last night of being back in New York. Judge
Hagensl has been to see me and I must return his visit. Also Consul
Wolf. Mostly however my callers have been Bedaween. One was
much interested about the French in Tunis. He seemed to have it
well in his head that “the French got two million soldier and got
cannon” and thought it therefore no use for the Arabs to try to op-
pose them. Here we hear nothing about cholera or revolutions.The
boat’s cylinder is promised in about eight days and they are said to
have worked on it during the Beiram feast. 2 Then all the officials call
on the Khedive and people go out and pass the night at the graves
by thousands; I saw many families going, three or four women and
as many children and a big box and some bedding, all on a little don-
key cart; it was touching to see. Ameen was hoarse one day and told
me he had been at the tomb of his father. As yet there are very few
pleasure visitors here and not many are expected this winter; it is a
good year to buy a dahabeeyeh. Dubois talks of buying one and a
steam tug to draw it.

Monday This morning Montbard and I went to Benha,3
November 7, 1881 one and one-half hours towards Alexandria and
in the heart of Egypt. Indeed the relic of this

place in the old time was the Sacred Heart of Osiris. We found at the
station three Pyramid Bedaween waiting for us; one of them I had
visited in his house, Farrakh, brother of my Said. They took us to a

1. Franz Hagens. former Councillor to the Royal Court of Berlin, appointed to the International Court.
Cairo, June 24, 1875. and retired October 15. 1882.

2. Beiram: Turkish name of the festival of rejoicing at the termination of the fast of Ramadan. The Arabic
name is El ’id es Sughaiyar. See Baedeker, “Egypt," 1929. p. XCIX. and for a full description E. W.
Lane. "Manners and Customs of the Modern Egyptians." London. 1898. pp. 485—487.

3. Benha or Athribis. See Murray's ”Egypt.” London. 1880, pp. 154—155. The pillar fragment with the
cartouche of Apries is quoted by C. C. Edgar. “Notes from my Inspectorate" in the “Annales du Service
des Antiquités,” vol. XIII. 1913, pp. 280—281. G. Daressy. in the same periodical. vol. XVII. 1017. p.
126 says: ”Tell Atrib, oui est a cou’: de Benha. est maintenant presque rasé.”

75

