NOVEMBER 1888 T0 JULY 1889]

stay away from Paris more than a month at a time. Then come half a
dozen Dutchmen with a chatter of their own, but reading promiscu-
ous. A group of women who have “Artiste” on the backs of their
chairs, and who seem very much at home, on their way to Batavia,
attract the attention of the English brides, and their reprehension. Of
the half dozen Japs, Dr. E. Matzudaira, M. E. is lying on his
back in a fancy chair, pencilling a letter to “My dear Miss Pardee,”
and Mr. Satho is leading about a wife or a sister, who looks a God-
forsaken Christian.

CAIRO We anchored at three A. M. yesterday, went
SHEPHEARD’S over the bar at Sunrise and I was boated in
Noveméer 10, 1888 (give your cards, not passport, at the Custom
House and you will be recognized), .....
and took the nine o’clock train. At Benha I inquired of the station
master for Moonib Bey and was put into a compartment with him.
He told me all about things, inquiring much about you all, speaking
bitterly of the English: “They are sucking the blood, so many
leeches.” Oorooshwan was at the station, the Reis and Aly at
Shepheard’s, Seelim and Moorganny on board. I have started paint-
ing of forward deck and hull, to be ﬁnished tomorrow, have begun
house cleaning and replating, especially of some brass knobs I found
on all the doors, and hope to be ready to start Thursday. I have seen
Nefady, Showooly and Moorgan. The iron rudder looks solid. In-
singer sailed Monday, having waited till it was ﬁnished. He will not
go far up the river, not above Beni Sooef. Golenischeff‘, the Russian
Egyptologist is here, going up on a dahabeeyeh for three months.
. Hassan Speke came last evening and I wrote him a letter
for Mr. Albright. John Cook 13 here smiling as ever and will do any-
thing to help you up to me. He expects this to be the biggest year yet.
Luigi rubs his hands over ﬁfty guests.

SHEPHEARD’S I have been too busy to write for the week see-
November 17, I888 ing everybody two or three times for every little
thing. I should have been ready to sail this

morning, but here I have to wait till three through misunderstand-

 

1. Vladimir Samionovich Golenischeﬂ'. Russian Egyptologist. see A. H. Sayce. "Reminiscences." London.
1923. pp. 265—266 and 415.

473

