FEBRUARY 1884 T0 MAY 1884]

dark spectacles, at ﬁrst I did not know her. Today the donkey boys
all know that he is from Damascus. Mr. Piehl, the Swede who was
with us last year, is at the Karnak Hotel but has not called on us yet.
Yesterday and to-day I have spent most of the time with my dark
acquaintances, who have shown me their antiquities and sold me
such as I wanted at very moderate prices ...... Old Kaleefeh,
who did to the Oasis, has staid on this side of the river ever since we
came, and whenever I go anywhere he seems to ﬁnd great satisfaction
in going along. Aboo Gamb came over from Gurnah to see me to-day
and brought another magic staff, the support of some Pharoah’s fol-
lowers. It looks much like a miniature barber’s pole, but is a good
support. He brought me too Jalaam keteer from Old Kamoorry.

Monday We waited for the postal boat before starting,
February 25, 1884 but there was no letter for me. I received only
two Egyptian Gazette: with the meagre news
that Gladstone was sustained in the House of Commons by the
meagre majority of forty—nine. ..... we are approaching
Erment, all the world at Luxor having come down to bid us good-bye,
and shall soon see the house of Mme. Bouillon, which reminds me
that in that of Mme. Blanc at Rodah there was a Choubersky stove;
I did not think to ask her where the coke came from. Mme. who is
much better has received good news from her little Henri and is
answering her bien chére Marie. We approach Erment where I shall
mail this. Mustapha Aga is on board going up to ﬁnd of mummies at
Gebelei'n, which the ﬁndee dared not approach Maspero with, ex-
cept through a mediator. Aboo Gamb has a child’s mummy at
Erment which he comes to surrender ......

ESNEH We went yesterday afternoon at Erment into
February 26, 1884 Mme. Bouillon’s garden and house for two hours
and brought away a mummy which Abd er

rahman had found across the river at Salameeyeh, the ancient Taood,
where we visited the temple two years ago. He was astonished when
Maspero gave him two hundred francs for his half of it. We brought
away also a good supply of vegetables from the garden and they are
rather hard to get here. Mme. Bouillon is lively and pleasant, though

275

