NOVEMBER 1888 T0 JULY 1889]

in 1699 and Norden’s in 1737—81. There are queer things in them.
Think of Norden stopping two days at Thebes and making ever so
many large drawings therein. He drew Edfoo without landing.

March 11, 1889 At eleven we landed at Keneh in the felucca and

the dahabeeyeh went on. We posted letters and got
supplies and goo/16h: and Oorooshwan, and, passing the German
Consul’s, saw Gayet who said he was getting on passably in the
Franco-German Consul’s house while surveying Denderah. At one-
thirty we started on our stern chase with only Soroor, Oorooshwan
and Moorgaan to row. And it would have been long after three thirty
had the ship not waited for us, before we should have found the
shade and comfort of our home. Our hunger was appeased by part of
a big cucumber; the sailors ate the rest of it rind and all. Tied up
just above Dishneh.

March 12, 1889 To near Raceeyeh2. A boy sold me a gold turtle and

said there were plenty of things among the falla-
heen at Sheykh Alee, a little to the southeast. These come from the
digging at Kaﬂeteeyeh.

March 13, I889 Stopped in Raceeyeh at the house of Gadeés,
where Gadeé was said to have anteekeh. He had
gone to Farshoot for the diggings at Arakee. We tied up at Bakhanes.

March 14, 1889 We came on swimmingly to Belianeh.

Marc/z I5, 1889 Started at eight for Abydos. Here we found the

Captain of Maspero’s last voyage installed as
soldier. He does not like Abydos; all the people are stupid as donkeys.
He has been to Paris and spent over a year at Toulon when Ismael
was having war vessels built there. Gad, with his Seti nose, had

I. Frederik Lewis Norden. ”Travels in Egypt and Nubia. tr. from the original published by command of
His Majesty the King of Denmark and enlarged with observations by ancient and modern authors, that
have written on the antiquities of Egypt. by Dr. Peter Templeman." 2 vols. London. 1757.

2. Rissieh on the map in Baedcker. ”Egypt." 1929. Katleteeyeh is El- Kalfatieh; Arakee is El-Araki we]
Dahsah.

525

