OCTOBER 1881 TO APRIL 1882]

dragoman, a very stupid one. An India man is with them, big and
burly and his man, whom I mistook for him, and a Mrs. Pearce with
a pointed chin, who hasn’t been of? the boat for two weeks. The cold
weather has been rather hard on Mr. Lyde. Maspero bought some
things of Todros and I went with him to see Aly Moorad and worked
a little in the Temple of Luxor.

Monday The cold I got going up at Esneh and the weather
yanuary 16, 1882 since has ﬁnally after wiggling away at left ear
and eye and brain and throat and jaws de—
veloped something like a boil on the edgeof the jaw—bone. It gives me
a chance to suffer and be strong, though I think ifI were in a more
Christian country I should try a poultice. At noon the letters came
and glad enough I was to see that Zoe had made such a pretty thing
for me to hang up in my room, and that you were all getting on so
nicely and having such a good time.

I saw Mme. and Mlle. VViedemann to-day; Alfred had gone across
the river. They were in good spirits and he very well. It is a great ad-
dition to his activity this winter to be able to ride a donkey.

The VVekeel or substitute of the Mudir of Keneh came up to-day
to see about the temple. He went around and looked at it and ordered
the mamoor‘ to make a list of the people who lived in it for the twen-
tieth, when somebody else is to come up. Then there was a beginning
of investigation into the little temple of Karnak which I found miss—
ing, and the evil deeds of Abdallah Mohammed and Ibrahim Hassan
Shakally are on the way to punishment. I don’t care about their pun-
ishment, but I want them compelled to bring the stones back and lay
them on the ground hieroglyphics up. The Arabs have not many an-
tiquities this year. They tell me that the demoralization produced by
the arrest of Abd—er-Rasool and the coming of the Mudir2 last sum—
mer prevented them from digging. There is a good supply of false
things. I think I will get a few scarabees made to order. I was told to-
day that when Mohammed Abd-er-Rasool went down to Cairo in the
summer everybody said he would never come back—that he would
be sent to the Soodan. Old Khaleefeh tells me that there are plenty

 

I. Mamoor markaz is the Chief of a district. under the authority of the M udir.
2. Mudir is here Maspero, the director of the Antiquities Department.

115

