[CHAPTER TWO

Tuphium; we found a table of offerings1 in polished granite, of the
Twelfth Dynasty, which is built into a house, but will be taken out
for the Museum. Then we saw the temple and I waited, after the
rest started to come back, to copy some of its many inscriptions. In
the Myth of Horus and his combats with Set, which is sculptured
on the walls of Edfu, one of the battles is placed at a spot southeast
of Thebes, called the House of Ra. To-day I have identiﬁed it as this
Tuphium by the inscriptions on this temple. It would delight the
heart of Brugsch to see it. There is so much left of the temple that
Maspero thinks it worth cleaning out. Said looked in the town for
anteekeh till we were half way back and then ran all the way. We
have two or three Coptic things he found, but the more important
will be the subject of negotiations hereafter. Meantime the engineer
of the sugar works here had called and taken the ladies and shown
them the wonders of the place and Guy Lussac came to dinner and
most of them went to the engineer’s to pay a visit in the evening. I
stay with Mmes. Rhoné and Maspero and write and study at my
Geography.

Thursday This morning we started and reached Esneh at

7cmuary 5, 1882 nine. I went to the temple and worked in it till

noon and shall again this afternoon. Maspero has

seen the Mudeer and concluded deﬁnitely to clean out the temple of

Tuphium.2 Said ﬁnds no anteekeh here. But I could well spend a

month in the temple and enjoy it. However we shall have more of it
as we come down, for here we stop to coal.

Thursday afternoon I spent also in the temple correcting a copy
which Brugsch had given me copied by him from Vassalli and Eisen-
lohr. It is deep down and I caught cold and it went to my ear.

1. Table of Offerings: See G. Maspero. “Notes sur quelques points de grammaire et d’histoire."§XXII B. in
“Zeitschrift fur igyptische Sprache." vol. XX. 1882. p. 123; A. Kamal. Tables d‘oﬂrandes (“Catalogue
du Musée du Caire"). Cairo. 1909. p. 5 no. 23004.

2. The temple is not yet cleared. See G. Legrain. "Notes aur 1e Dieu Montou" in "Bulletin dc l'lnstitut
francais d'archéologie orientale." vol. XII, 1015-1016, § XIII—XVI. pp. 101—112. H. Gauthier. “Dic-
tionnaire des noms géograplu’ques." vol. VI. Cairo. 1929. pp. 130-131. The clearance was started during
the winter of 1933-1934.

108

l] i l gil- J l .I' x r ll'“T I‘ :I T l

