[CHAPTER THREE

know of which gives the name of the construction, and it would be
droll to leave it out especially after an invitation to see it.

At Kom Ombos we arrived at two and I broke my neck copying
the astronomical inscriptions on the ceiling till ﬁve. Maspero made
his inspection and found everything all right, but I found when I
went over to the little birth-temple on the brink that one of its three
remaining walls had fallen and an interesting invocation to the Elder
Horus, which I noted for copyingjust fourteen months ago, is lost to
Egyptian literature as it will be known to us. I then urged the taking
of impressions of the remaining texts of this fragment of temple and
on the down voyage was offered an opportunity to do it myself at
eleven o’clock on a roasting day. It is a great general law that what
we pay to do, we like; and what we are paid by the day to do, we
dislike. When the world is reconstituted according to my ideas. there
will be no day’s wages; there will be only payment for work done,
according to its quantity and quality. I worked till dark on the
remaining texts, the sybilline leaves of this little birth temple; and
then there remained a text I wanted, the “Chapters of the Service to
be performed in the Temple of Horus the Elder in Ombos early and
every day.”1 So after dinner I proposed to Piehl that we go; he was
engaged for a game of chess. I needed a man to hold a lantern; Tan-
yos, the Copt soldier, whose wife’s shoulder I treated for scorpion—
sting last year (I say shoulder because we did not see her face), would
go but was afraid to go without another man; the sergeant would not
go for a hundred guineas; he said he was afraid of the Afreet. Most
others were like him but Tanyos found one at last and so with fear
and trembling, a lantern and a chair, they went to the temple. It was
much better than the cigars in the salon; the air was soft and warm
and I did not need my old cloak which I had carried. I copied the
“Chapters” to where the fall of a great roof-stone had broken them,
and then compared them, and then another text on the other side
under and relating to eight plates in Champollion’s Alonummts,
which give the calendar of the hippopotamus goddess, who was the
mother in ﬁve days of Osiris, Horus the Elder, Set, Isis and Neph-
thys. It tells how this little birth-couch temple being the Gate of Life,
the goddess F air-sister her name; came to it in her form of a grand and

 

1. J. de Morgan. etc. "Catalogue des Monuments ct Inscriptions de l'Egyptc antique—vol. II. "Korn-
Ombos." Vienna, 1895. pp. 39-48.

230

