FEBRUARY 1884 T0 MAY 1884.]

is married to a Ginn from below, who comes to him every night,1
but whom nobody has ever seen. How pleasant it must be in a little
society like that of Luxor where everybody knows everybody and
among the Coptic minority of the villagers for one Copt to say this
of another! But then Tanyos is a Copt of the Old Christian Church
and Todros is tainted with Presbyterian renegadism. And here it is
so extraordinary for a man of means to be unmarried at thirty that
only a marvel can account for it.

This evening Daninos, whom we visited two years ago at F eshn,
came on board to dinner with his English coadjutor Mr. Money, who
was astonished at the cowardice of the Egyptians.

We had come a little above Minieh which the Nile is leaving and
in the little Nezlet opposite Sawadeh, the Sheik told me that they
had no cholera, though there was much in Sawadeh and Minieh.
There was a large population of women and children who made
valiant ﬁght for me against the distrustful dogs.

RODAH We started early and reached this sugar station
Thursday of the Daira Sani'eh at ten o’clock when we stop
February 14, 1884 for coal. First a visit to the Frenchman who has
charge of the sugary M. Blanc. The house was

interesting in its furnishing everything being pleasant and comfort-
able and having a home-made air. Then after the noon breakfast we
went over to the site of Antinoé,‘-’ the City which Hadrian built for
his dead favorite. Mounted on a small donkey with a stout Arab on
either side I went up and down the mounds of rubbish as well as the
rest did on foot. Near the Arab village Sawadeh a little to the north
are the feet of columns of a great temple; they bear the name of
Ramses 11.3 Away to the east are enormous columns of granite ﬁve
feet in diameter on bases six feet square. About the Arab houses are
fragments of capitals and ﬂuted columns and through the mile-long
stretch of pottery runs a street the pavement of which is being dug
out for building. At the beginning of this century many Roman
columns were standing. But the sugar factory here wanted lime to
build it and so the marbles of Hadrian perished. Returning to the

1. The same story is told about a man from Girgeh in Lady Duff-Gordon's “Letters from Egypt."
Revised edition by Janet Ross. London, 1902. pp. 334~335.

2. Antinoe. the modern Shcykh Abadeh. see Murray, “Egypt." 1881. p. 414.

3. A. Gayet, “L'exploration des ruines d'Antinoé et la découverte d'un temple de Ramses II enclos dans
l‘enceintc de le ville d'Hadrian." in “Annales du Musée Guimet," vol. XXVI, 3rd Part. Paris. 1897.

265

l.‘ .1 l l f” T _.' 1+ ‘ 5'. ll l1 91 l l

