 

 

 

DECEMBER 1882 T0 APRIL 1883]

overhauled us at Coptos where the Wekeel of the mudeereeyeh was
waiting for the new “tomb,” said to have been opened here. It is a
sort of propylon or gate to a temple, the upper part of which is gone.
It seems to belong to Khem, the god of the nome, though there is a
dedication to Seb; and there are everywhere about on it the car-
touches of Caius Claudius.l Then we went to a house where Sheikh
Aly had some anteekeh to sell and then to our last year’s granite tem-
ple of Tiberius’ time and then back, all in two hours. Hardly time to
take a note anywhere. Bouriant who was to have copied the whole, as
Maspero said in the morning, took two bits which I pointed out to
Maspero in the Gateway and I found on showing the general de-
scription, I had noted, to Maspero, that he remembered only that
and nothing more. Now we are on our way to Keneh, in tow of Duf—
ferin’s boat while our engineer is mending something. Sheikh Aly had
a part of a squatting statue hugging Horus and Isis, the broken in-
scription on which said this man was admitted to approach the di-
vine ﬂesh, that is the person of the god. Rostovitch told me he bought
for ﬁve hundred and ﬁfty francs a draught board which I had seen
in Luxor; all the museums have them and it is a very high price.
We arrive at the shore opposite Keneh and at ﬁve forty—ﬁve Maspero
starts with his charges, including all the Duﬁerins in white dresses
into the crypts which are very dusty, and lighting the great pronaos
with Bengal lights, which he said was glorious, and coming back to
dinner. Such play isn’t worth the candle. They do better than that
who come up in a Postal Boat; they go over in the evening and spend
two or three hours. And the moonlight after nine was magniﬁcent.
But all things must yield to the English dinner of an Irishman who
wishes to be considered a Scotchman.

“NEW” CRYPTS IN I awoke to ﬁnd our tow-boat gone and at leisure
DENDERAH Maspero, Mme. and I went to see a new gate-
Wednesday way or rather two little gateways to a small

March 28, I883 temple of Harpocrates;‘-Z the temple is not yet
uncovered. Then they came back and went to

Keneh and I went to the great temple and into two “new crypts” of

I. G. Maspero. “Premier rapport sur les fouilles exécutées en Egypte de 1881 a 1885.” in “Bibliothéque
Egyptologique.” vol. I, Paris. 1893. pp. 201—202; R. Weill, ”Koptos.” in “Annales du Service des An-
tiquités de l'Egypte." vol. XI. 1911. pp. 110—111.

2. The Birth House. see Baedeker, ”Egypt.” 1929. p. 266.

241

