[CHAPTERFOUR

woman with sadly sunken cheeks. Old Roowayha the King of the
Rabab in these parts is at his home in Qoos; there are no travellers
to make it worth his while to play in Keneh or in Luxor. In the
evening Dr. Lansing came to visit us and I went back with him to
his dahabeeyeh to copy two Greek inscriptions, one of Nero and one
of Antoninus, which Maspero will publish. He has a little, very little
dahabeeyeh for which he pays seventeen pounds a month, but large
enough for himself and wife. It needs only four sailors.

Friday We steamed early to Coptos where Said found
Feéruary 22, 1884 an old Roman bronze kettle which had been
tinned for use in these days; it will be a valuable
acquisition to the Museum, though Said would prefer that I should
bring it home. I went into the Temple Gate opened last year and
copied all of interest while the rest strolled about the town. Un-
fortunately much laid bare a year ago is now covered. We stopped
also an hour in Qoos where was a temple of which the hieroglyphics
now exposed give no characteristic. A little digging would help much.
These excursions show me that I must not twist my ankle much for
a few days. Walking about on an uneven surface tires it quickly. I
will let my grave map of Gurnah wait till we come back from
Assuan. As I write below, I hear the shout that the Pylons of Karnak
are in sight and I too will see them again.

They were, the well-beloved, again in sight and the obelisk of
Hatasu and the mountain and monuments of Gurnah and the obelisk
and pylon of Luxor. And the ﬂags appeared one after another and I
went down to make up my washing; for we are to stop only a day and
a half, just long enough to start the Reis Mohammed Shayn, whom
' we have brought from Sakkara, at work bringing out the sarcophagus
of old King Ay from his far King’s Tomb in the Western Valley, and
to begin some work here in the Temple of Luxor. I heard no guns
ﬁred this time as we passed the consulates but when the boat stopped
I went on deck and saw the procession ﬁle in, the consuls of the
U. S. A. and Austria and France and Britain and Germany and Italy
and the Karnak soldier and Mohammed Ledeed and Ahmed ibn
Mustapha Aga and photographer Beato and others too numerous.
When I went out there were many Arabs in the fore part of the boat

272

