[CHAPTER TWO

larger. This is complete and seems an artist’s sketch of the two heads.l
I think there are none others so nearly handsome; usually they are
very ugly. He bought also, for six more, a porcelain ring with the car-
touche of the King “Khu-en-aten” the name he assumed in his new
or rather revival of old religion, and a broken ring with the cartouche
of Saanekht,2 who married the eldest daughter of the Unitarians,
Mer—aten, and reigned with her. You remember it was her name I
found on the stone at the Ostrich Farm. She also appears on the big
stele as the only child, which shows that it was made before the birth
of any other daughter, for they put on the whole family every time. I
hope the paper prints will come nicely; I send three, one each for
Paris, Brooklyn and Compton. Bouriant, who took them, thinks it
will make a ﬁne frontispiece for his book. M. Rhoné also asks per-
mission to reproduce it and while the rest are writing letters to be
posted at Sioot, Bouriant is explaining to him the plates in Lepsius
about these people. The husbands of the daughters, of whom there
were seven, were, most of them, one after another, Kings, and he who
married the Queen’s sister,3 closed up the Eighteenth Dynasty, the
great Hor-em-heb. But the doctrine died with these two, whose
heads you have, and the worship of Amon was re-established and
they set to work to chisel out the Unitarians as industriously as these
had chiselled out his name. Twenty-ﬁve years ago Hékekyan Bey
dug down to a pavement leading west from the great statue of Ram-
ses at Memphis, and found it made of fragments, some of this Khu-
en-aten. One of them had a teakettle with a hawk’s head cover, and
with such an one the King on my big stele is making a libation.‘ This
fragment is now in Melbourne, Australia.

Last night we passed the picturesque cliffs of Aboo Foda and
closed the day with an exquisite sunset. I have forgotten to tell what
a long ride it was to the seven North Tombs5 yesterday—ten miles
on a very ragged-edged donkey, without any saddle, and how the

I. J. Capart, "Documents pour servir a l'étude de l'art ézyptien." Vol. I. Paris. 1927. pl. LXIX. F. L. M.
Taggart. “The New Wilbour Memorial Hall" in Brooklyn Museum Quarterly. Vol. XX. no. 3. pp. 57—69.

2. Read Smenkh-ka-ra.

3. Wilbour accepts the theory that the Queen of Horemheb was Nezem-mut. the sister of Nefert-lti.

4. See Ch. Nicholson. “On Some Remains of the Disk \Vorshippers discovered at Memphis" in “Aegyptiaca.’ '
London. 1891. pp. I 17—133.with two plates. The ”tea kettle" is on pl. 11. Hekekyan Bey was the former
Director of the Polytechnic School established by Mehemet Ali.

5. See N. de G. Davies. "The Rock Tombs of El Amarna.” Part II. London. 1905. p. 12. for the ape: of
the coptic church in the tomb of Panehesi.

96

T] i l il’ J l .I' x r ll'“T l :I T T

