[CHAPTER FOUR

the hundred pieces of wood in its place. It was a great day for the
Museum.

Tuesday We stayed on board all day. I wrote and read a little
zipril 8, 1884 in an English translation of Herodotus with Mme.;
we have read about half of what he says of Egypt,

during the voyage and she reads quite glibly now. She and I both

were rather tired after our six hours donkeying yesterday ......

Wednesday Farrag Said’s brother, came up and sold Maspero a
April 9, 1884 lot of little things and a Byzantine gold chain to me;
he gave antiquities to Mme. which Maspero thought

worth two hundred francs and he has large stones at the Museum to
sell to it. News came last night that in a vault, beside that in which
Horus’ ﬁve boats were found, was a stone sarcophagus intact. So we
three posted off to the spot, just west of Sakkara, six hundred cubits
west of the pyramid the Arabs call the Watchman and four hundred
east of Horemsaf’s. When we came the work was resumed and ﬁrst
came forth the head of a woman who was just getting her last double
tooth and beside whose poor bones was nothing save a very graceful
little alabaster pot three inches high, which Mme. may show you one
day. When her dust was cleared away, the stone sarcophagus be-
neath was taken out; it was rather the lining of a grave than a sar-
cophagus. One, two, three top stones were taken off and I went in to
read the name on the wooden cofﬁn. It was Kheper-Ka-ra, Ra’s
spirit-born—again; the man was therefore probably named for the
Twelfth Dynasty king of the same name, Usertsen I. And the
Horus whose vault touched his was probably of the same time. Our
coﬁins were therefore not of the Sixth Dynasty but a thousand years
younger.‘ They are very pretty cofﬁns nevertheless, and as unique as
if they were of the Sixth Dynasty. We stood and sat in the sun till
everything was out and then we left Rooby’s son Kaleefeh at the
work and went down ﬁve hundred cubits west to a six-year-old
sycamore near a new garden, watered by a well. For wherever there
is a piece of low ground in the desert, you have only to dig down to

 

I. P. Lacau. “Sarcophages antérieurs au nouvel empire"--(Catalogue général du Muaée du Caire). Cairo.
1904. no. 28036. pp. 101-107. pl. XIII.

308

