[CHAPTER THREE

I wrote last summer, the Dragoman Bedawee with whom Mrs.
Moulton expected to go up this winter; he is almost blind, I have
seen him in his house and though my coming routed him from sleep
he was very bright and cheery, full of solicitude for my comfort, wel-
fare and success. He could see only a little of my face and beard and
the lamp when it was brought in. It is very interesting to talk with
these people about what has happened; the religious heart yearns
toward Ceylon.

yanuary 2, 1883 I have just bought of Shookr Homer, a sheikh of

El Azhar, a sandal wood box with three holes for
eye ointment, one for each of the three Egyptian seasons, with direc-
tions thus opposite each hole in good hieroglyphics:

 

 

Season of Harvest Season of Seed. time Season of Inundation

Raises the water Destroys all ill Opens sight
from the eyes in the eyes

 

 

 

 

which reminds me that Bedawee was attacked in the harvest time
and that an Arab doctor told him there was water in his eyes and put
something in to take it out. I am afraid that the dried up stuff which
is still within, is too old to be good.

Eleven went up the Nile in the Cook Steamer to—day,
but that is very few and they are taking oﬂicers and soldiers and their
families half-price. People who come out with dahabeeyeh intentions
ﬁnd public opinion against it, and submit. Last evening I took Mr.
Weidenbach1 who was here with Lepsius forty years ago in the time
of Mehemet Aly, over to see Dr. Grant’s collection. Mrs. Grant, who
you know is a Massachusetts woman, is feebler than last winter.

Said who has been over twice from the Pyramids to escort me
about town wishes to be remembered to my Sitt and to the Sitt
whom he saw at Luxor last year (Mrs. Moulton). Everybody tells
me that Said likes me very very much and that he wants to go up
the River with me without any money. Everybody is every Pyramid

1. Max \Veidenbach, see Georg Ebers, “Richard Lepsius. ein Lebensbild." Leipzig. 1885. pp. 134. 158 and
169; B. Lepsius. “Das Haus upsius.” Berlin. 1933.

184

