DECEMBER 1882 T0 APRIL 1883]

The wind blew a storm of dust to—day and in the afternoon Mas-
pero came back from Qoornah quite overcome. They had opened a
deep tomb,l the walls of which were covered with a long text, some-
thing like the pyramid texts, written with ink in small characters.
The sarcophagus, like that of Sebekaa, is in fragments. But he wishes
to transport the tomb stone by stone to Boolak and set it up in the
Museum. Lady Brassey who wrote the Voyage of the S arzbeam
was at Aly Moorad’s last evening with her three Mabs, Mabelle
Annie, Muriel Agnes and Marie Adelaide, she stiff as a poker with
her white tarpaulin and her two little Mabs with sailor hats “Sun-
beam”ed' in gold. She sent her card to Maspero and talked so down in
her throat he could hardly understand her. I found a terra cotta wo-
man lying on a bed with a child on her arm, her head supported by an
Egyptian pillow, and a covering over them, the whole slightly
broken, I gave it to Mme. Maspero. It is the only representation I
know of the use of these pillows. Vassilli says it is Cleopatra and
Caesarion.

BRUGSCH COACHING I went over a lot of notes Brugsch had written
MARIETTE on the margin of Mariette’s copy of his Mortu-
Sunday meat: Divers. He tells him in these the most
February [8, 1883 elementary things, as one would a beginner.
Then to Karnak for a few hours’ work. To-
night we hear that the sarcophagus of Sebekaa2 is up to the level.
Beato photographed the Coptic stele yesterday and it comes out
nicely.

Monday . . . .There are more Americans than
February 19, 1883 English at the Hotel and a special steamer has
just come up, said to have none but Americans

on board. I am invited to see them to—night at Aly Moorad’s where I
spend the morning with telescope and camera lucida making a pano-
rama of the tombs on the Qoornah side, which show well from his

high house.

1. Tomb of Harhotep at Deir el Bahari. no. 314. Porter-Moss. "Topographical Bibliography." vol. I, 1927,
p. 170.

2. Sebekkaa for Dega. The Stele A of the publication of U. Bouriant. See G. Maspero. “Guide to the Cairo
Museum." Cairo, 1910, no. 427. p. 250.

219

