OCTOBER I881 TO APRIL 1882]

in full view of the awe-stricken people. And on this roof, in the rooms
which give with such fullness of text and illustration the mystery of
the Death and Resurrection of the God1 who is Every Man, here
where the Denderan relic of Osiris was preserved, once a year to be
planted in a basin with wheat and sand, itself completed into an
image of the God, this watered till the growing wheat should an-
nounce the Resurrection of that which was dead—here I heard again
the same resounding hum which ﬁrst I knew in the Kom es-Sultan at
Abydos. The sword-armed guardians pictured on the walls are gone,
but the sweet remains of Osiris, in Denderah as in Abydos,are still de-
fended by myriads of winged devotees, and woe to him who shall
attempt to work them harm.

Saturday I went again. This time alone as Maspero had to
December 31, 1881 do with the Mudeer2 at Keneh and the rest had
done Denderah. The ferryman set out with the
ﬁrst chapter of the Koran, which he sang-sung in good Quaker style
and this he did after the manner of a spell, that nobody might fall
into the water. Said explained it to me and then, in a voice of emo-
tion, that there was one Chapter better than that, which he recited,
and which ended “Wahid Allah: There is but One God.” The old
helmsman counted ninety-ﬁve years; he had been to Mecca eighteen
times and he told me of many towns in Persia and India where he had
been; he even spoke a little Hindustanee for my pleasUre. He awaited
my return at sunset and when for taking the donkey and four others
of us over and back I gave him twenty cents, he kissed my hand as
though it were a princely gift. I rode a little among the villages, found
a stone of the temple of which somebody had begun to saw of’r~ the
hieroglyphied face, and then sketched the arrangement of the texts,
bas-reliefs and ornamentation in Rooms A, B, F, G 8: H: after which
two Englishmen came with a showy dragoman who ﬁlled the temple
with suffocating smoke of a red Bengal light and then I found that
the day was ended.

1. Mystery: Sec V. Loret. "Les fétes d'Osiris au mois de Khoiak" in "Recueil de travaux relatifs a le
philologie et a l'archéologie égyptiennes et assyriennes." Vol. III. 1882. pp. 43—57; vol. IV. 1883, pp.
21—33; vol. V. 1884, pp. 85—103; H. J unker. ”Die Stundenwachen in den Osirismysterien." Vienna. 1910.

2. Mudeer: Governor of the Province called moudeeriyeh; in this case the mudeer of the Province of Keneh
to which Luxor belongs.

103

