NOVEMBER 1888 TO JULY 1889]

so that he did not know when Xmas came. Aly Moorad came and
borrowed seven £5 to make up ﬁfty, installment on tax to be sent
to Keneh by postal steamer. Bouriant breakfasted with me. He is
awaiting impatiently authority to dig so as to ﬁnish his work at

Medeenet Haboo.

December 26, 1888 Ahmed came early with the seven £5; a man

had come from Assuan by camel with the
money for a boat load of wheat. I worked on the south propylon at
Karnak. Old Khaleefeh came to see me and pointed out the hole
which held the upper hinge. Donkey-boy Mohammed brought
Ahmed Abdallah of Salameeyeh who had papyrus to show me; it was
only scraps from Ekhmeem mummy-cases. I bought of him some
bronze things, a knife, an incense-holder-handle and a good Osiris
head. Aly says Mohammed told him that the black troops deserted
the English and went over to Osman Digna with arms and baggage,
but that the people in Luxor do not want the foreigners to know it for
fear they would be frightened and go away. There is also a suspicion
among the people that the English pretend they want no more blacks
only to draw them out of their hiding-places.

December 27, 1888 Again at the south propylon. Bouriant came
along disgusted; if he does not get his permission
by tomorrow’s mail, he says he will leave for Cairo.

December 28, 1888 Visit from Aly Moorad, Abeed, Idress and

Abd el Megeed, who had a gold sitting King in
profile, which I took. I got a telegram from Lottie last night asking
if they should start in the morning; I answered yes, if they dared the
dust, but they can hardly get a telegram sent at sunset. Today I
have a letter saying they will start to-day and that if they do not live
to get to Sioot, the expense of burial will be saved. This because they
were half buried last year by the dust. Abd el Megeed conﬁded to me
with delight that he was about to become a father. He has been mar-
ried to Mohammed Mohassib’s sister twenty years and to the expec-
tant mother nine.

497

