DECEMBER 1882 TO APRIL 1883]

I think it would take me a month to correct what has been printed.
The book of De Rougé is the worst of all, worse even than Mariette’s
books. The old keeper, who speaks French, had some couches with
gay carpets of Persian pattern in for our repose, but I did not use
them. Maspero was up a little while after dinner to inspect the tem—
ple and see that it was all right. He does it once a year dutifully. To
me the extent and variety of these texts grows greater the more I see
of them. The more I know of them, the greater seems the unknown.
Its mass worries me; I want to tie up a dahabeeyeh here and stay
till I conquer it and can feel that there is nothing I have not seen; I
cannot expect thoroughly to understand it all.

GEBEL SILSILEH We started betimes and while I was dressing
Friday bumped against a sandbank with damage to the
March 9, 1883 handle of my water pitcher. Soon we began to see
the yellow sand which comes from the stone which

has received so much of this Holy Writ and before noon we had
passed an hour at Gebel Silsileh where I resumed my last year’s work
comparing Champollion with the Speos. It seems to have been cut by
Horemheb but he left much space which was “utilized” by his suc-
cessors of the Nineteenth and Twentieth Dynasties. Many of the
grandees who were sent up to cut stone for the great constructions of
these dynasties perpetuated their King’s names and their own by a
stele in this Speos.1 Some of them gained space by cutting a little
private chapel in the rock in which they carved statues of their King
god and themselves in adoration. Maspero is going to have Bouriant
make an article on the Temple of Aten2 at Thebes and I suggested
that it might be worth his while to see an inscription here made by
the man sent up to cut the stone for it. But it was not thought so.
This idea of the Temple of Aten occurred to Maspero and I when we
ﬁrst went to Karnak this year and we divided the pylon which was
built of its stones and copied all we could see of its inscriptions;I
found twenty on my half. This inscription of Silsileh3 is the only one I

I. G. Maspero. “The Struggle of the Nations." London, 1896. pp. 348—351; W. Wreszinski. “Atlas sur
Altﬁgyptischen Kulturgeschichte," vol. II. Leipzig. pl. 161—162.

2. U. Bouriant, “A Thebes." II. “A propos des débris du Temple d'Aton a Karnak." in “Recueil dc tra-
vaux.” vol. VI. 1885, pp. 51—55.

3. G. Legrain. "Notes d'Inspection 5 I “Les Steles d'Aménothé-s IV a Zernik et a Gebel Silsileh” in “An-
naJes du Service des Antiquités." vol. III. 1902, pp. 259—266.

229

