DECEMBER 1882 TO APRIL 1883]

to save society, that is itself, and by Royalists and Imperialists who
wish to show that they alone can save society. These feed ranters
and make the plots that they discover ...... But come to
Egypt and learn to say “Mateyshl”. There is no ﬁnancial depression
in France; there seems to be no danger that the Egyptians will lose
Khartoom which is a thousand miles farther up the river than I
have been and no English troops will go there, only half a dozen
English ofﬁcers. The troops which do go, go by way of the Red Sea,
not by the Nile which saves Maspero’s boat, of which indeed both
hull and engine are so old as not to be very desirable ......

Saturday The wind continues so that it is not pleasant on
March 31, 1883 deck and we are awaiting coal. Nothing happens
and there is great reading of newspapers, and
writing of letters in which I join. But before I have ﬁnished my pa-
pers, before I have read any but the Register and Continental, which
Maspero is now devouring, the coal has come and I must ride away a
mile through the sandstorm to the post with this; for I have learned
to put my letters myself in the box even in honest Egypt. 'We start
this afternoon for Amarna, have some days there, then a day at Lisht
and three or four at Sakkara and then Cairo and then Europeward
where I would like to visit you a little even now in spite of your snow
and ice.

HAGGI KANDEEL We came down last night nearly to Manfaloot and
AGAIN this morning to Haggi Kandeel. The wind still
Sunday blew ﬁercely ﬁlled with sand and it was without

ﬂpril I, 1883 us that Maspero and Bouriant set off for the
Southern Tombs. However, I soon mustered

courage to go up into the little village nearest us, Amareeyeh, where I

talked with most of the women and bought a few anteekeh. A boy

on my way back told me he knew who I was, I was the man who took

a stone last year of Hillaleeyeh for a guinea. A man asked me if I

knew New York. After breakfast I went to Haggi Kandeel and spent

almost a dollar for a great many broken anteekeh including car-
touches of three of the heretic kings. Old Hillaleeyeh came out to see
me with a new baby which I could not believe was hers until I saw

 

I. Mateysh. Arabic for “it does not matter".

245

