[CHAPTER FIVE

is to defend the Empire of India until the troops of the Empress are
ready to descend to Kom Ombos or farther. A dozen dahabeeyehs
without crews are lying here as the most comfortable quarters avail-
able for the oﬂicers who can afford them. Their lights and the town
and tent lights make the river ﬂash at night.

This morning some of us went to the new tombs to which General
Grenfell introduced Maspero yesterday. Bouriant to copy, Toda and
Insinger to photograph and I to make plans and a map. It seems that
the whole face of the rock for half a mile is full of tombs, two of those
I measured are more than a hundred feet long. The ornamentation is
small compared with the size of the tombs, but one of them has the
cartouche of Nofer-ka-ra of the Sixth and another of N oob-Khaoo-ra1
of the Twelfth Dynasty. In a tomb under the old convent Bouriant
found the only historical Coptic inscription known, something about
the Turks in 1173, how they came through Assuan and conquered
the country as far as Ibreem.2

Sayce and Myers have been here a fortnight and Sayce tells of a
slice of a great Greek inscription3 he is copying in Assuan. Perhaps
Maspero will get it for the Museum. In Elephantine yesterday I got a
few fragments of papyrus but nothing worth the bother of the crowd
I raised.

Monday After much discussion as to how we should go to

February 15, 1886 Philae we took the train. The passenger cars are

very simple and uniform, one end is labelled

First Class, the other Second Class; there is no difference except in

these two painted words and the price of the tickets. Of course our

dignity would not permit us to pay less than thirty cents and ride in
the other end of the car.

We took the usual boat with the usual reis and made the usual trip
to the Bab el Kebeer, the Big Gate, as they call the principal rapid.
The same men swam down it gaily and didn’t get much bakhsheesh
therefore. One thing was new. The British have a lot of new “Ameri-

r. Tombs of Pepy-nekht and of Si-renrut; see A. E. P. Weinll. "A Guide to the Antiquities of Upper
Egypt." London, 1910. pp. 430-432.
2. U. Bouriant. “Petite Inscription historique en dialecte thébain, copiée a Assouan" in "Recueil de tra-

vaux,” vol. VII. 1885. p. 218.

3. A. H. Sayce. "Greek Inscriptions from Assuan” in “Proceedings of the Society of Biblical Archaeology."
vol. IX. 1886—1887. pp. 202-205; E. A. Wallis Budge. "By Nile and Tigris.” London. 1920. vol. I. p. 96;
the slab is in the British Museum.

366

