DECEMBER 1880 TO APRIL 1881]

quiet, cultivated Swiss, Ernest Cramer, headed a side-table beside
which his sick wife generally lay; they, with their two romping girls,
are now in an apartment across the way. He is a cousin of N avillel of
Geneva and a good friend already.

50 you see that it was only diagonally that I could see the Great
Gérome—pick his teeth!

Decemlwr 28, 1880 Three nights more have passed and my head

does not swim. Herodotus made a great fuss
over a single shower here. He studied down the river ﬁve or six miles
at Heliopolis for a long time and he ﬂaps his Greco—Gallic wings with
vast importance as he says ”in my time it rained in Egypt.” Now in
my time it has rained four nights out of the six.

We saw on Tuesday the twenty-ﬁrst, the Island of Candia for half
the day and Wednesday afternoon there was great excitement to
know whether we should land that night. A sail was mistaken for the
Lighthouse, the famed Pharos of Alexandria; I remonstrated. In
vain; others had seen it before. Finally the slender Pharos did really
arise out of the sea, then the great Palace and the smoke of steamers
and chimneys; at last the houses and the shore. To the East of the
town I can now see on that distant horizon between two mounds the
grateful palm-tree which stood out black and beautiful against the
foot of a rainbow. For two or three days the skies had been gorgeous,
such as I have not seen before on this side of the Great Deep.

We all watched the pilot boat and our ﬁrst Egyptian Arabs and
then counted one by one the wonders of Alexandria until we were
moored in the Western Harbour. Then came out the swarm of boats
and from them a wave of black faces and brilliant colors sweeping
over the bulwarks of the ship. The biggest, the blackest and the
handsomest was labelled Hotel de l’Europe—“Ismak ay?”, I asked.
He answered Aly, but continued in English, to the shame of my
Arabic accent. I gave him charge of the two trunks on the deck and
showed him the Saratoga in my room and doubted his ability to take
it up alone. He answered “Strong Man! lift the steamer!” and with
my bag and long oaken photograph staff going on deck I mounted a
perch ﬁve feet high and enjoyed the hurry and the fracas. Such cries,

1. Edouard Naville. Swiss Egyptologist (1844—1926). See H. R. Hall, “Edouard Naville." in the “Journal
of Egyptian Archaeology," London. vol. XIII. 1927, pp. 1—6.

5

I II I v {1T1 I I I I H I 1,31

