[CHAPTER THREE

Years. Dean Butcher doesn’t relish it; these soldiers don’t uphold
the church. He said to me last evening of the hotel: “It is a Barrack
and a Bar.” But Mrs. Scollop Stopford Sackville who now entertains
him at dinner, will doubtless do something handsome. She has a
courier and a maid and handfulls of rings and a six foot three and a
half inch admirer who talks long of how he revolvered in the States.

I have not told you of a girl who sat opposite me at table on the
boat and who Mme. Brédif said was the bride of the Norwegian
judge Borchgrevink. The contrast between her narrow head and
chest and waist and her mighty arms, wrists and hands, led me to
ethnological theories as to a line of ﬁshermen ancestors on the rugged
Norway coast. They kept rather close together and my theory was
good until we got to Naples. There they said they had seen me two
years ago in Upper Egypt. They became acquainted on that Nile
trip and when four months ago, the infatuated young Judge went to
bring his bride, he went to San Francisco. She and I were the two
Americans on the boat.

ﬁmuary 1, I883 And so the greatest man of France is gone,1 he who

after the war was lost, inspired a resistance which
won back her honor. Dr. Lansing, the American missionary, has just
repeated to me the calumny of Rochefort, licking his lips. I come
from Mr. Pomeroy whom I have seen for the ﬁrst time; he begins to
be bitten by the mania of collection already. He asked to be remem-
bered to you and regretted you were not here. I wish too that this
brilliant weather might keep you warm and comfortable this winter.
I was quite alarmed by your Wednesday’s letter and glad to ﬁnd that
you were no worse on Friday. I have looked a little at dahabeeyehs.
Most of the more modern built are on about the same pattern. The
front half of the boat is for the sailors, the kitchen at the prow. The
rear half only is housed over and above is an awning-covered deck,
which is the sitting-room for all the warmer days. In its rear sits the
steersman and around him are boxes of supplies—some have hulls of
iron, some of wood. The wooden are good for twenty years, the iron
for forty. But in the cataract if there be an accident the wooden can
be repaired at once; the iron only in a long time if at all. The Arabs
prefer wood and I think I do. Of the rear housed part of the boat I

I . Gambetta.

 

182

