NOVEMBER 1885 TO MAY 1886]

Work is to begin on the temple to-morrow. We are to stay here till
it is well started and until Morel, an old friend of Maspero’s, arrives
from Paris; he left Marseilles yesterday.

The weather has been cold and damp, but here the air is soft and
warm; the skies as tender as in our gentlest days in June. The sunsets
are gorgeous over the Nile—mirror and behind the beautiful mountain;
you will never see the like elsewhere. I hope Victor Hugo1 can see it,
for he loved sunsets.

LUXOR Yesterday I went across the river. Khaleefeh
S unday had a white camel waiting for me. He shot me up
january 24, 1886 into the air in the usual way all right but when I
opened my umbrella, he was frightened and be-
gan to shake me off. He succeeded only in shaking my umbrella out
of its gear and I ﬁnd to-day that he shook my bones a good deal. But
after a short march he repeated his dance and on a second repetition,
Khaleefeh got frightened, fearing he would throw me off and step on
me. So after a third subjugation he made him kneel and I came down
to a donkey. Donkeys don’t dance and are used to umbrellas. I bear
no malice against the camel. He is unused to having Khaleefeh lead
him while another rides. And when he heard a noise he had never
heard before and saw a great shadow appear under his nose on the
sand, no doubt he thought it was a me, the wonderful bird of the
Arabian Tales, which had settled upon him and would soon begin to
breakfast. A reasoning camel would try to shake him off.

The western arm is dry; I have known a foot of water in it in April.
The low Nile may shorten our stay as we must go while there is
water. The same beggar was at the ferry-ford, now a road. We passed
the house of Eyoob, now unoccupied, for he is at Bibbeh with his
handsome boys. The garden is kept up. Then we went across in front
of the wondrous range of temples and tombs to the house of Ka—
moorry, meeting many acquaintances on the way, among them
Abd-er-Rasool. The old man, who says he is seventy-three, but who is
probably older, seemed very glad to see me; he showed me all the
drawings he had made in the book I gave him, and asked after my

 

I. Wilbour was a friend of the famous French poet. dramatist and romance writer (1802-1885) and trans-
lated into English “Les Misérables."

353

