[CHAPTEREIGHT

Deceméer 17, 1888 Went with Nefady to Qooft. At the bridge

where the Greek Inscription is, the ﬁsh of the
canal were gathered together 1n the last remaining pool and they
were seining them. I saw but one species, a sort of cat-ﬁsh. Passing
the town on the way to the little Roman temple I saw a heap of
stones some with hieroglyphics which Yessa Rafai told me he had
taken from a place he showed me just north of the northwest corner
of the enclosure of the Sacred Lake. They belonged to a small
Chapel and I copied a pair of cartouches, which I cannot make out.
His slave, just ransomed, showed me another place at the east gate
of the great temple enclosure, just south of the south round tower,
where were still some large uninscribed stones in Jim. They broke up
the large ones which they could not handle whole.

December 18, I888 The warm weather has quite reconstructed me.

For almost the ﬁrst time in the voyage we have
not wind when we want it. We reached Tookh last night and to-day
worked, tracking mainly, to a sand-bank south, but not out of sight
of Pére Samuel’s garden at N egadeh. The bad bend of Qamoolah is in

sight afar over the beautiful glassy water.

Deceméer 19, 1888 We tracked along over the still glassy water un-

till we reached the dreaded bend at noon. Then
a favorable northeasterly wind sprang up and before sunset we tied
up in front of Amon’s great temple at Karnak.

Deceméer 20, 1888 Oorooshwan and ﬁve more went to Erment to

make bread and the rest made a tent on shore
with the poles and old awnings. Aly Moorad came betimes, not
complaining, but not looking well. Times were bad and the Italian
Consul had got an order from Cairo to the Mudeer that he be not
disturbed in these pieces of land he has appropriated, and he had
built on them greatly to the disadvantage of the Mission. I went to
I nsinger’s boat and saw there Murchl, Mohammed Mohassib and Abd
el Megeed. Mohammed Mohassib said that good things were stolen

1. Rev. Chauncey Murch. American missionary at Luxor. see E. A. Wallis Budge. “By Nile and Tigris."
London, 1920. vol. I, p. 87. “The Murch Collection of Egyptian Antiquities" in "Supplement to the
Bulletin of the Metropolitan Museum of Art.” New York, January. 1911.

494-

