DECEMBER 1880 T0 APRIL 1881]

antiquities might fall into French hands, for they take care of old
things, and I want a deal of work done which would take money.

Thursday Tuesday afternoon we rode over to Karnak
yammry 27, 1881 again, stopping some time in the temple of the
Hippopotamus, mother of Osiris, the Goddess
Apet,1 where is the key to the worship of Amon in Thebes, a scene
which represents him as a human-headed bird soul arising from the
body of Osiris stretched on a bier, the texts calling him in so many
words “the living soul of Osiris.” Though this temple is Ptolemaic,
yet I think there are proofs that the faith is old, and that Amon is
really, and in origin, the form of Osiris worshipped at Thebes. For the
ﬁve gods born of Apet on the ﬁve over-days, as they are called, of the
year, are: Osiris, Horus the elder, Set, Isis and Nephthys. The ﬁve
over—days are ﬁve days added after the twelve months of thirty days
each, just at the beginning of the season of the Inundation. Now
Osiris was born at Thebes in this temple; Horus the elder at Koos,
Set, having gone to the bad, is omitted—Isis at Dendera, and Neph-
thys at How, places about twenty—ﬁve miles apart following down
the river. The antiquity of the worship at Dendera as the birthplace
of Isis, traced back to the Twelfth if not to the Sixth Dynasty,
makes probable the antiquity of this whole scheme, though the
texts in which it is now found are Ptolemaic. I have found on an
architrave of the Hypostile Hall an allusion to this birth of Osiris
from Apet which traces back the faith to Seti I. I hope to ﬁnd some-
thing farther back, but shall not be surprised ifI do not for the older
the time the more chary they are of exposing the mysteries even to
the initiated few who had access to the temple, and who could read
its inscriptions. While here, Mohammed, the dragoman of the
steamer party, found us and gave us candles and told us that
Abd-er-Rasool at Gurnah had a papyrus and lots of good things but
it was almost impossible to get a chance to see them. But as Abd-er-
Rasool2 was Elsen’s bird-guide and just then on his dahabeeyeh we
arranged to go over in the morning.

1. For this temple of Apet see M. de Rochemonteix. “Le Temple d'Apct” in the ”Bibliothéq
gique.” vol. 111. Paris. 1894. pp. 171-318.

2. Abd—er-Rassoul. one of the members of an Arab family famous {or the discovery of the royal cache at
Deir el Bahari. See Gaston Maspero. "Les Momies royales de Deir cl Bahari." Paris. 1889.

33

