FEBRUARY 1884 TO MAY 1884]

Wednesday We started from Girzeh early and from Beli-
February 20, 1884 aneh donkeyed to Abydos by ten o’clock. Old
Seleeb received us as usual; but as Mme. did not
come we have no news of his hareem. It seemed strange to me that a
nice young woman could be found to marry this sightless mass of
decrepitude, but the people whose opinion I took on the subject
thought it quite natural. We made the round of the temples and
while Baudry and Maspero pondered over the Shoonet el Zebeeb,1
which I take to be a fort to guard the Darfoor road which here de-
scends from the desert to the Nile, I went to the Dayr and found my
priestly friends regaling two fancifully dressed kohl—eyed long-
gunned Bedaween at their hospital gate—outside. I went in and into
the church where they showed me some Coptic books, but the old
priest did not invite me to see his pretty wife, though he spoke of
her. I had not time to take coffee with him for the Mudeer was
already off to the Kom-es-Sultan, having done all Abydos in three
hours. We ate Seleeb’s cakes and mutton and big turkey and some
milk and graham bread with strong appetite and returned in a lively
Khamseen to the boat at four. Said bought a few little things and a
stele of the Eleventh Dynasty and being behind, took a camel to
come quickly with much the same results as I had two years ago at
Assuan. Old Aboo Stayt has been at his old tricks again and killed
another man for stealing his “fool” (big beans) in the night, and they
have been unreasonable enough to discourage this use of cartouches
by putting an iron collar on him again at Soohag. But he is as rich
as ever and his good son Mohammed dispenses with open hand.

Thursday We steamed to Keneh and Maspero got money
February 21, 1884 at the Mudeereyeh. I looked for carpets and
found the Copt Girgis of whom I bought a ﬁne

sphinx head, Maspero says of late Roman times, a Roman’s head
and a rough bas-relief of a goddess holding her breast to a crowned
eagle, said to be from Denderah. Said bought a King's head, a hawk—
headed crocodile near a foot long which looks like a preadamite, and
many little things. The F reeda who danced so ﬁnely two years ago
was pointed out to me standing in a doorway; she is now an old

 

r. Shunet-cz-Zebib. see E. R. Ayrton. etc.. "Abydos." Part 111. London. 1904. pp. 1-5.
2 7 I

