OCTOBER I881 TO APRIL 1882]

the rock down into the chamber, which must be under the centre,
there were no tools or men for that. The prospect of Luxor and let-
ters made smiling faces. At sunset we landed before the big temple.
Consul Wolf came with some of his party to see us. He is looking
amazingly well with color in his face; just up yesterday, must go back
Friday; is going to have a great time Washington’s birthday in Cairo.
In the evening Brugsch and I went over to the old Hotel to see him
and there were Mr. and Mrs. A. J. Garvey whom you have heard of.
Poor Garvey! he seems much broken, quite unlike the roystering
decorator of Tammany. He and some Germans and German Ameri-
cans have come and go with the Consul General. They had been to
the Tombs of the Kings and wished me to go to Karnak with them
next day, but I had to go to Keneh whither

Wednesday we steamed for coal and oil and salaries. Rhoné and I
15!): went over to Denderah in the afternoon to explore the
adytuml which we had discussed much. Found a long
ladder and climbed up into a big niche in the rear of it, where we dis-
covered the home of the Golden Statue of the Goddess which seems
to be the centre of sanctity in this building. We were up there when
the Prince appeared with his Dutchmen. Niemayer, dragoman of
their Consulate, climbed up to inquire where the portrait of Cleopatra
was; they wished to see it. It is the thing most people go to Dendera
to see. Everybody buys the photograph of it and many people the
plaster cast. It is really a head of Isis with a cartouche of Cleopatra
added by the plaster man ;2 the photograph is from the cast. In the en-
trance hall was a weary woman waiting for a Cook crowd to ﬁnish.
She called my name and it was Mrs. Moulton. She told me she had
gone out too much in Cairo, got sick, raised blood, and been three
weeks in bed, got up to come up to Luxor and this was her ﬁrst don-
key ride. She too wanted to see the portrait of Cleopatra. When we
left Keneh the Estelle was there; when we got back from the temple
she was gone.

 

1. Room Z of A. Mariette, "Denderah." Text. Paris. 1875. pp. 179—183.
2. This remark is conﬁrmed by G. Maspero. “Sur une téte de statue trouvée a Alexandrie" in " Bibliothéque
Egyptologique." vol. 28. Paris. 1912. p. 28.

I33

