[CHAPTER THREE

lels the Annunciation and a very singular one where Ammon taking
the form of the Royal Father appears to the Royal Mother and so
quite properly performs the miracle of divine descent. In another
Khnum the potter-god is fashioning the little Amenophis and his
double at the same time. And I think much more will be visible next
year, when the light is let in. A dozen mummies have been brought in
and are strewn about the deck. With the three crocodiles Vassilli
bought at Assuan they make it a bric-a-brac shop.

THE SEASON ENDING Guy Lussac came last night on his way
Monday Cairo-wards. Dufferin is really coming but
March 19, 1883 Maspero hopes to get away before he gets
here. I think he won’t. We are waiting for the

new engineer to come up about the temple. The weather is cool and
pleasant and my eye is almost straight again. I have arranged my
photographs and am going to see Beato’s once more. The hotel is well
thinned out, would be quite if Duf’ferin’s approach didn’t dazzle a
few Britishers. Aly Moorad, back from the long visit to Keneh, tells
me that his nephew Osman is now dragoman to the consulate and so
exempt from conscription; he is very happy over it and so are his
daughter and brother and sister, Osman’s wife and mother and father.
Our downward progress depends on many things; I will not prophesy.

DUFFERIN COMING I lounged about and rested my eyes till after-
Tuesday noon, then worked them too hard in the salon
March 20, 1883 where Maspero now works all day on his cata-
logue.l Beato had but few new photographs for

me. The anteekeh for sale I have seen for the fortieth time and it is

difﬁcult to loaf.

Wednesday I have been to the hotel where they are preparing
Marc}: 2!, 1883 to receive the real sovereign of Egypt, Lord Duf-
ferin. He is expected at seven to-night and the

hotel entrance will be brilliant with colored lanterns. Mustapha has a
line of palm branches planted and he can use the same framework he
had for the little Prince-of-Wales—boys last year. He was over this

 

I. G. Maspero. "Guide du Visiteur au Musée de Boulaq.” Paris. 1884.

236

