NOVEMBER 1890 T0 MAY 1891]

slopping. This afternoon Lottie went over to the boat with me and all
the men greeted her as ifshe were come from heaven, and we saw the
new awnings in place and took out the plated ware to be replated.
For the brass forks and spoons which came with the boat need the
seven—cent replating which the Copt gives them here every year. It is
worth only what it costs. The felucca in Mansoorah is still uncertain.
The girls want to wait for it, splendid with varnished wood and brass
mountings. Professor Sayce, disappointed both as to the Admiral and
the Phi/a6, has engaged Ahmed of the American Mission to build him
one for eight hundred. (Exclusive of ropes, sails, awnings and furni-
ture.) He now thinks he must stay in Cairo and see to the building of
it. But he can really do nothing and may as well go up the river and
enjoy himself and copy inscriptions. Saturday they cut the starling’s
wings so that he could only ﬂy downwards. So today he ﬂew down
from the girls’ window into Kamyl’s great garden and before they
could get to him he fell a victim to a descendant of the Cat Goddess
Bast. He could not ﬂy up away from her. Poor Starling. Our crew is
nearly all on hand. We shall have perhaps four new men, as I want
an Arab pilot and six Arab sailors. Lottie thinks the new colors on
the boat rather intense. In fact the green is three times as strong as
I intended. A blunder of the painter, who put what I meant for all
into one-third the needful and had it on before I saw it. I should
have made him do it over again and pay for the paint he had wasted
but wasn’t quite up to my duty. So I bought ﬁve dollars more green
and let him go on and the Seven Hat/20m has the garb of Mohamet’s
descendants. Lottie and I went to Mrs. Grant’s to tea. She looked
and seemed better than before, less of the full moon face.

Deceméer 30, 1890 Saturday Professor completed the purchase of a

dahabeeyeh a little larger than ours‘. He pays
one hundred twenty-ﬁve pounds more than we did but his boat is ﬁve
years younger, so it comes to about the same thing. We are all very
glad of it and hope to have a good time going up together. Sunday
while I lithographed some steles to preserve my priority of discovery
as I have told so many that they are sure to be visited this winter.
Professer Sayce, commissioned thereunto by the head of the Church,

 

 

I. A. H. Sayce. “Reminiscences.” London. 1923. D. 278.

577

