DECEMBER 1882 TO APRIL 1883]

corn, and dourra, which is a larger broom corn, to sell, and very much
- wheat. Guy Lussac brought his Inspectors to see us and then his boat
and ours came down to Wasta, he on our boat. There he and Charmes
and the “Kawagga” (Bouriant) and Piehl took the train for Cairo,
he to get his Jew-German—English colleague and take him into the
Fayoom: Charmes to see about his return through Constantinople
and Bulgaria; the Kawagga to get married to the daughter of a
French engineer who has lived her life in Egypt; Piehl to get some
money. They will be back more or less, but that does not hinder our
table from being too large for four.

We have steamed down to Matanyeh whence we go tomorrow to
Lisht, to see the opened North Pyramid in which is nothing and to
ﬁnish the opening of the South Pyramid. The day has been mostly
spent on deck and the light lovely even when with my glasses I
changed it from Egypt to Holland.

Yesterday after taking on our new pilot we somehow running
downstream got one wheel on shore which broke two or three pad-
dles and bent the irons which hold them. But the irons were soon
hammered back again and we get on just as well without the paddles
apparently. Amphibious boat.

BY LAND Maspero, Mme. and I went the hour and a half of
AND WATER donkey to the Lisht pyramids. The way was ﬂowery
Friday and fragrant. We found the work on the South Pyra-
April 6, 1883 mid resumed (Brugsch had stopped it) and there is
some prospect of extracting the granite stoppers in a

month. Maspero came out wet and black; so as there was only a few
metres more of the straight descending entrance to be seen than
when we went up, I declined to see them. Then we went over to the
North Pyramid where Brugsch had announced there was nothing.
Mohammed Eggazi and Old Mustapha the Memphis reises had
greeted us at the ﬁrst pyramid and told us there were two stones in
the second maktoob, one with a cartouche, which they described so '
well that it seemed to be Khafra, the builder of the second Pyramid
of Gizeh. Then I inquired just where it was and found that it was
seen in the passage made along by the side of the entrance way and
so on the back of the stone; in fact it was on an old block of granite

249

