[CHAPTER THREE

Aly was very glad to see me; his face showed it all over every time
he looked at me. And he seemed very grateful for the watch and
books Mrs. Moulton sent him and his boy and for the cards I gave
him. The boy has improved much in his English; M. Maspero thinks
he speaks English very well.

Tuesday We all went over to Dayr el Medeenet about a
February 6, I883 hundred steps northwest of the northwest corner
of which is the tomb from which the alabaster
sarcophagus of Queen Nitocris is to be taken. A careful examination
of it by Mohammed Shayn, the ﬁfty-year old reis who with Rooby,
discovered the Pyramid Inscriptions, leads to this result: that the
excavations required to make the hole large enough to get the sar—
cophagus out will take more time than we have to stay here. If it
were now cleared out, it might be ﬁlled again by a slide from the
mountain above; so it must wait another year and then be cleaned
out before M. Maspero comes up, that it may be taken out while he is
here. We went over to another sarcophagus of white limestone‘ very
handsomely painted and written over on the inside; Lepsius pub-
lished the beautiful work in colors in the Denkmr’i/c’r. This is under a
ridge which looks northwest toward Deir el Bahari. We wormed and
wriggled our way about as much down as forward until we came to
this masterpiece of calligraphy in a little chamber more than half
ﬁlled with débris. Bits of mummy cloth and casing were strewn
about, but I saw no bones and no writing except that in the sar—
cophagus. This is to be taken out and it will be a great ornament to
the Museum. I hardly understand why Mariette, who, Vassalli says
went down to it with him, did not take it in his time. Then we went
into another hold and escaped falling into wells only to be smothered
to death, for the air was as bad as in a French theatre, while Mas-
pero was lowered down twice his length and crawled in over two
mummies which he had to lie upon to read them. They are to be
brought forth into the day and we shall then have more deﬁnite infor-
mation about them. Mme. bravely did all this with us in a black dress
and without gloves.

1. Sarcophagus of Dagi. tomb no. 103. Porter-Moss. “Topographical Bibliography." vol. 1. London. 1927.
p. 133; G. Maspero. "Guide to the Cairo Museum.” Cairo, 191 o, no. 19. pp. 23—24.

208

