FEBRUARY 1884. TO MAY 1884.]

river every other day to sketch in the tombs and Dulacl takes it very
easy, very. When Albert and George, the Prince of Wales’ sons were
here, Brugsch2 made the voyage with them and at the end their pre-
ceptor gave him four hundred pounds with which to clear out and
photograph the tomb of Ramses II. That was two years ago and the
tomb is untouched. This year he came up to photograph the tomb of
Ramses VI, made an hour’s attempt one day and gave it up. Maspero
says he has given him thirty pounds for photographic purchases
within six months; he says he gets but four pounds a year from the
Museum. But I do not hear any more of the mortgage which threat-
ened to take away his house.

The water is high this year, ten inches higher than at the same
time last year, and last year we left Luxor March 27. Yet I think we
shall start earlier this year. Aly Moorad’s boat has already on board
the ﬁne granite stele of Pu-am, which Champollion described and
which I charted last year on the north slope of Khokha Hill; and it
will relieve us of a part of our deck load. The Khamseen days of last
week are over and we are very comfortable. Some holes have been
dug in the temple of Luxor to see that the foundations are solid, and
the work is put over for another year. Inshallah!

LUXOR I went over to Karnak and corrected my printed
Saturday copies of the Victories of Seti, or rather began to do
March 15, 1884 so. Mariette covered them partly when he cleared
out the Great Pillar Hall on the outside of whose

north wall they are sculptured, but Maspero has had them un-
covered that Emil may photograph them. The copies of Brugsch
thirty years ago are not so good as I supposed; they too need
correction. There came a broad man and heavy, speaking English
with a German, western accent, who had much to say about the stone
and who said lie was Sutro. I knew of the seven-mile Sutro tunnel,
dug to drain the Comstock mine, an undertaking equal to the Mt.
Cenis tunnel in length and greater in diﬂiculty. He came after noon
to see our mummies and asked me to say a price for some of the
Gebelei'n mummies which have got down as far as Mohammed

 

I. H. Dulac. member of the French Institute. See his edition of “Quatre Contes Arabes en dialecte Cairote”
In "Mémoires de la Mission archéologique francaise au Caire." vol. 1. Paris. 1884.
2. Emile Brugsch.

291

 

