FEBRUARY 1884 TO MAY 1884.]

armed windmills and Pompey’s Pillar and the Pharos into a placid
sea at noon and I ate a hearty lunch and a hearty dinner and slept

soundly till

Wednesday To-day we have jogged on twelve and a half knots
April 23, 1884 past Candia and I have taken my four meals. The
German commission on the cholera Drs. Koch and

Fischer are returning from India. Koch tells me they found the germ
in Egypt but were not sure enough of it in the ﬁfteen cases they ob-
served there and so went on to where there is always cholera. It is
something between a fungus and an alga, that is a seaweed, and is
found in man only in the intestines. They have been able to see it
only with oil-immersion lenses, which have come into use within a
few years and with the fullest illumination, central and oblique from
all sides. These cedar-oil immersion lenses have come into use since I
worked with the microscope and they tell me are a great improve-
ment over the water immersion lenses which immediately preceded
them. The Minister Plenipotentiary of His British Majesty to Egypt
is on board, going to England to be changed, I think. He divides his
time between French novels and whist. He was sent to dummify
Egypt, but seems a dummy himself. Most of the passengers are on
their way home from India. Generally they read good books, a con-
trast to the French boats. One man has Spencer’s “First Principles”
and Emerson. I have read a little Italian story and written these

eight pages.

Thursday We glided on but though I started to read in the
ﬂpril 24, I884 morning I soon stopped; I shall remember a lot of
faces which did not interest me. Dr. Koch1 told me

that he used a one-twelfth oil immersion objective made by Zeiss of
Jena after the formulae of Professor Abbe and Abbe’s Beleuchtungs-
Apparat; he could see with this one-twelfth all that he could see with
a Powell and Leland one-twenty-fourth. He thought Dr. Thuillier,2

 

1. Robert Koch. German bacteriologist (1843—1910). see Paul de Kruif. "Microbe Hunters." New York.
1926. pp. 140-144.
2. Louis-Ferdinand Thuillier. French bacteriologist (1856-1883). one of the collaborators of Louis Pasteur.

315

