[CHAPTER FOUR

South; for it would appear that there was another pyramid more to
the north called The Sunrise. And indeed we ﬁnd that the seventh
king after Snefroo, King Sahoora, has a pyramid called the Sunrise of
the Soul. Our man, whose name is Praise-Ra (just as in the Long
Parliament time there was a man named Praise—God), was Master of
both these “Sunrise” pyramids, and among the farms which were de-
voted to the service of this tomb were ﬁve named after Snefroo and
one after Sahoora. His eldest son, also a king’s grandson and an arch
priest and prophet was Master of “Snefroo’s Sunrise Pyramid, of the
South” only. His name was Life—in-the-hand-of—Ra. The father mar-
ried a princess surely, for his daughter was called king’s granddaugh-
ter and her name is a long name: F or-ever-and-ever. At the other end
of the tomb is a fragment with a name Kemged which I cannot trans-
late, but he was prophet of Snefroo and his mother the king’s daugh-
ter, King’s-Fair, was prophetess of Snefroo and of Hathor, Lady of
the Sycamore.l To this Hathor Ramses II built, or rather rebuilt, a
temple in Memphis, and day after day as I ride past Mitrahenny I
see a lone granite column, with four Hathor faces like those at Ha-
thor’s temple at Denderah, which cannot be far from the site of this

Holy Place.

Farther on is the grave of Mr. Faircome who was a chief but whose
titles are mostly destroyed; however one of them contains the name
of Snefroo. A little farther was a king’s grandson Kahzooankh who
held an ofﬁce over the tenth Nome of Upper Egypt. Then we saw the
tombs of F airtruth and Ata and Thenta, a prophet of Snefroo, all
king’s grandsons and then we breakfasted in the sun, for there was a
pleasant north wind and no shade, and then we started northwards.
For a boy had come from the north with the news that an intact
tomb had been opened near little Pepi’s pyramid and there were ﬁve
boats2 in it. Now though most museums have boats, Boolak had none
and this was exciting. We even had hopes of being able to make a
plan of the tomb with the sacred things just as they were left in it
ﬁve thousand years ago. The rest went straight, but my donkey be-

I. G. Maspei'o. "Trois années de fouilles." . . . Paris. 1885. pp. 189-191: Praise-Ra- Duara; Life-in-the-hand-
of-Re-sAnkhmare; King's-Fair= Nefertnesut; Faircome-lynefer; Fairtruth-Neferma'et: see Porter-
Moss “Topographical Bibliography," vol. III. Oxford. 1931. pp. 238-239 and A. Barsanti.”Rapport sur
la {ouille de Dahchour" in “Annales du Service des Antiquités.” vol. III. 1902. pp. 198-205 with 2 plates.

2. G. Maspero. loc. cit.. pp. 208-210; C. Reisner.‘ ‘Models of Ships and Boats" (Catalogue general du Musée
du Caire). Cairo. 1913. nos. 4912—4917.p.p 68-74 with plates XVII-XVIII.

306

