NOVEMBER 1885 TO MAY 1886]

can” stem-wheel steamers patrolling the river. One of these graces
the cataract, bottom upwards. Ranged around Philae are the bat-
tered remains of the whale boats brought for the great Gordon Expe-
dition; they cost but four hundred seventy dollars apiece delivered in
Wadi Halfa. I worked on the west side of the Temple four or ﬁve
hours correcting and completing a text partly published by Dﬁmichen
in his last book.

Maspero has gone back to Assuan to breakfast. About three the
Grébauts thought they could amuse themselves better on the conti-
nent, where there were a lot of Arabs, and they listened to a story
that it was time to go. The train was at ﬁve-thirty as I knew from
Professor Sayce who had taken it only the night before, and I told
them so, but I gave in and left my temple where we were comfortable
in spite of the sandstorm, and went over to bite the dust of the Egyp—
tian army for two and a half hours. \Ve found a café after two hours
and a fresh blonde woman from V'Viesbaden made us tea. She had a
Jewish looking man and a blonde, happy baby and told me she had
been there a year. This Grébautism seemed to ﬁnish up Toda and he
thinks he will leave us at Luxor. I never had less pleasure in seeing
Philae, but then there was a high wind and we did not have our usual
pleasant breakfast.

Tuem’ay We took on some painted stones from one of the

Feéruary 16, 1886 Assuan tombs and steamed with Insinger and

Sayce’s dahabeeyehs in tow as far as Silsileh,

where we dropped Sayce, continuing to Edfoo. Mme. Grébaut, who

had not thought the temple worth seeing on her way up, had now
changed her mind and went with her children to see it at night.

In the Tomb of Sen Nozem at Deir el Medeenet which has
crowded our deck with mummies, there was found a stone four feet
long with several lines of hieratic writing. This now turns out to be
nothing less than the beginning of the story of Sanehal known to us
hitherto only by a papyrus in Berlin, which is published in Lepsius’
DenkmEi/er. It was translated in part by Chabas and entirely by
Goodwin and again six or seven years ago by Maspero. But the be-

 

1. G. Maspero, "Les Premieres Lignes des Mémoires de Sinouhit restituées d'aprés l'ostracon 27419 du
Musée de Boulaq." in “Mémoires de l‘lnstitut Egyptien." Vol. II. Cairo. 1889 (separate reprint 1886).
pp. 1—23 with two plates.

367

