[CHAPTER TEN

note from little Miss Connor who tells me that D. P. Giovani has at
Senouris in the Fayoom, two or three hundred pounds worth of ﬁne
antiquities mostly from Kom Isheem‘, three and a half hours ride
away; the postmaster Khaleel Tanyos can show him. At three o’clock
with a good wind we are speeding on; we take up Nefady and his
brother at Wasta and on we go. The Professor has many mishaps but
keeps along.

7anuary 27, 1891 We all went up to the Mountain from Kitkatahg.

The Professor mounted to the great quarry and
found only two late grafﬁti. I looked in some rock tombs but the stone
is not ﬁt for inscriptions and I found only a red daub of cross thus:
Lottie and the girls were hospitably received in the
monastery of Aboo Shnoodeh where a nice clean
young man offered (through a sailor) to marry either
Linnie or Dora, saying he was a Christian and they
were Christians.

I'I/rrfl

    

28!]: At Ekhmeem we found that F rénay was in Tahta preparing

the reception of the Khedive next Sunday. We went to see the
Dealers. Sidrach had gone to Soohag, Sheikh Aly moved to Luxor
and Raphael’s father showed us the stones he had last year, saying
Grébaut had seen them and would take them on the way down. We
sailed away at eleven-thirty and at three-forty-ﬁve reached Girgeh,
twenty miles, where the men wish to make bread. All along the river
are fantaiseeyeh for the coming of Eﬁ‘endina“. The Postmaster here
says he stays three days at Luxor, whither Raphael had gone, then
Friday visits Qoos and Keneh, Saturday Girgeh and Sunday Tahta
and Abooteeg. Dora is at work on a new streamer for the meeting
wherever it may be.

7anuary 29, I891 The men made bread. The girls went with the

Professor over to the east mountain and saw

many inscriptions, such as: “Artemidorus coming from Syene

I. Kom Isheem =- Kom Aushim - Karanis. For the recent excavations by the University of Michigan.
see "Chronique d’Egypte." no. 5. 1927. p. 78. no. 13—44. 1932. pp. 83-85, no. 10. 1930. pp. 236-239.

2. Kitkatah—See Murray. "Egypt." 1880, p. 428.
3. Eﬁendina—His Majesty the Khédive.

584

