NOVEMBER 1887- T0 MAY 1888]

half-asthetic sisters in grace, one of whom had a lovely neck and
arms. The Professor hadn’t taken off his overcoat and I was in my
Compton blue suit. I have taken the black cook MOOrgaan, about
whose good cooking we heard so much last winter. Hassan Speke ap-
proves. He is ﬁnishing a ﬁne large house in the Boulevard Mo-
hammed Aly. Only one dahabeeyeh has been taken thus far, and
that not quite. It is the V icloria, which the Watts had, and by two
shooting, photographing Frenchmen who came over from Marseilles
on the Moeri: ...... They go to Wadi Halfa at four pounds a
day. Salah regretted to me he had not secured them, because a
Frenchman’s ﬁrst meal costs almost nothing and they have so much
extra for wine. Grébaut came with your letters by the ﬂmazone. I
am glad to hear such good reports of the way your paper went off
and am much obliged to Mrs. de Horrach for her desire to say pleas-
ant things. Victor’s account of things interests me the more since I
saw the studio with Professor Hoppin. What a good visit Victor had
with M. Poulet. I think if he wants to visit M. Bouguereau1 that Miss
Gardner will take him. She offered to take me. She said he was happy
to receive when he had not a model, for he went on talking and
painting all the same. If Victor will take Professor Hoppin to see her
some Thursday afternoon it will please her. Abu Shanab’s feet are up
in a chair and I compared his provision bill for him yesterday after-
noon with the help of his folks Nefady and Khaleel. We did it
quickly, weighing some things. His black girl left last summer.

SHEPHEARD’S Yesterday Mr. Cardwell gave me laudatory

November 21, 1887 letter to Ibrahim Daood our Consul at Man-

soorah, whither I will excurt, if it do not inter-

fere with the Seven Hat/107:3 progress. . . . . The Consul General
and his family go up the Nile tomorrow in Cook’s ﬁrst boat.

Luigi had yesterday a telegram from Carleton, sailing postponed.
Either Florence is worse or he is frightened at the dengue. I have
seen but one case of this fever, the woman who keeps the English
Church school in Boolak. They say there is a case in the Hotel. Most
people have had no doctor and been over it in a day or two. It was

 

I. William Bouguereau. French painter (1825-1905).

435

