OCTOBER I881 TO APRIL 1882]

Now for the heat Of the Eastern Mediterranean. It is not a bed Of
roses, my berth, and the wail of the children is pitiful. But it will have
an end and probably be remembered as, on the whole, a pleasant voy-
age. My head is not as swimmy as usual after the sea.

ALEXANDRIA My head swims more since leaving the boat
HOTEL DE L’EUROPE yesterday than at any time on board after the
Thursday storm. There I ﬁnished Numa Roumestcm;l it is

October 27, 1881 not up to the level of Le: Roi: an Exil. The last
two or three nights on board were severe, so

hot and close; when you come we will start later. It affected my liver
and then went off with a ﬂood from which I am recovering nicely
in this quietude. But for that I should be in Cairo. At the custom
house my things were not opened. In the Hotel I had hardly come up-
stairs when I heard Mr. Farman’s voice; he has been very compan-
ionable and told me all about his plans and work; his president,Mr.
Brouwer was in last evening. I think he will ﬁnd much less society
here than in Cairo; he likes thejudges here better than there. He has
already begun to buy a new lot of antiquities. He saw M. Maspero in
Cairo and the mummy Kings. One of the Abd-er-Rasools (I think our
imprisoned friend) is at the Museum, in its service; M. Maspero told
me he would try and have it so. This morning I followed Mohammed-
en-nisf across the town to a Syrian’s to see Anteekeh. He had several
good things, but I bought nothing; my head swam so I could only
trust myself tO get away. On the boat I came to know Mme. Mas-
pero’s mother: “La Baronne d’Estournelles de Constant,” extremely
unpretentious and a snuff-taker; M. Maspero’s half-brother, M.
Bazil, a slender youth of twenty—ﬁve, who has been in Mr. Berend’s
bank, a good boy; M. Mariette’s cousin, pleasant but with limited
range Of talk, her husband, a hearty fellow with a vibrant voice which
carries conviction and experiences of China and Khartoom, in the
\Vater Department of the Government; Dieudonné, the French
painter who got a medal for his Tamerlane having Bajazet’s wife
stripped to torture his caged prisoner, in the last salon; l\v-'Iontbard,2

I. “Numa Roumestan” (1881) and "Les Rois en Exil" (1879). two novels of Alphonse Daudet. the French
novelist (1840—1897).

2. G. Montbard. "The Land of the Sphinx.” London, 1894. The ﬁrst chapter begins with “On October
8th in the year 188-. at six o'clock at night . . . the Said. put out from the port of the Joliette."
The date is wron

71

