DECEMBER 1882 TO APRIL 1883]

where the two reis took leave of us: Mohammed Eggazi who lives in
Mitrahenny who has been three months at Lisht and Mohammed
Shayn who lives in Sakkara. Each has one wife. Mohammed Eggazi
told me if he had money he would have more, but M. Shayn sus-
tained the superiority of one. If there were more there were always
quarrels in the house. “Never mind,” answered M. Eggazi, “maleyslz;
if one dies you have three left.” “But!” says M. Shayn, “if one dies
there comes another!” and so they had it. I found some anteekeh in
the steam grist mill in the ﬁeled, a Psamtik and a big black hairless,
crownless head which may have been made for Ramses II, and talked
with the children herding the ﬂocks and watched the departing day,
here a glory of palm and pyramid to the west with the purple moun-
tains reﬂected in a Nile mirror to the east.

In the evening we discussed the limestone block at Lisht. Maspero
said it might belong to any tomb of the pyramid time. I contested
that no such tomb ever had any such inscription, that it must have
come from a temple. Finally he began to think it was so and now he
is sure that it is and that it is very important as being with the
granite block our only specimens of the hieroglyphics of temples of
the pyramid times. The fact that no ﬁgures of gods or offerings to
gods appear in the tombs of this age has been held to prove a nega-
tive for the religion of the age.
This is now contradicted by evi-
dence from a temple as well as

____-_

 

 

 

 

from the inscribed pyramids um “I; mum nuﬁmi
opened within the last three years. 1E“ [J .

The stone has just such inscrip- a A A m f
tions as we ﬁnd later over a row 3 1 M m '

of gods. Under these there must W M l 1‘ a

we?

4 E“ “C7 .7
lJ'II/irfi/ fi/ﬂ/ﬂﬁ?.,/J\'////r9’” W

”aggro-HE ANOTHER
G-OLD EN) GOD OR GODDESS

THEOREAT’ ENCHANTRESS

 

have been the goddess: Before
them was the King to whom they
say, as in nine cases out of ten,
gods do under such circumstances,
“I give thee all manner of life and
health and stay and sway and

joy.’!

 

 

 

 

-———

251

