[CHAPTERSEVEN

a Barberry dahabeeyeh ﬂeet which carried the families of a lot of
black troops enroute from Suakim to Assuan, a change from the
Seven Hat/20m. The costume of the women is rather light, from the
waist a little way down. They did a good deal of washing, and the
black skins shone.

I do not like to go away, but in a few days we must be ofiC and it
looks as though we should reach Naples in the ﬁrst days of May, and
then be without a home. Fleas are beginning a little, which rather
reconciles me.

FLORENCE After nineteen days of cool and comfortable life in
May 29, I888 Cairene waters, mainly visiting and loaﬁng, we went
down to Alexandria on the twenty-seventh of
April, leaving Seven Hat/207*: and her men with hopeful regret. Judge
Kinsman invited the British Consul, Judge Cookson to dine with us;
we had a pleasant time and next morning went on board the Erma a
good—sized Rubattino steamer; which they had told us in Cairo, had
her state rooms forward of the engine and boilers, those we bought
being just amidships. We found ourselves next the screw. 80 did
Gridley and his mother and sister. By threatening to go on shore, I
got the biggest room and the farthest forward they had, and Horace
and I slept on the seats of the Saloon above. For two days the
weather was such that we took no interest in the culinary proceed-
ings; then we began to repair damages; I was reduced to a skeleton of
about a hundred and sixty-ﬁve pounds. At Catania there were straw-
berries and roses and a big street named for Lincoln and as we sailed
on in the afternoon Etna strewed our awnings with ashes, so that
they were gathered by quarts.

At Messina towards night we had time to drive about and see the
sights; it also has a Via Lincoln. Garibaldi is the one idol of Italy and
Garibaldians hold the name of Lincoln dear.

May third we came into Naples and the Hotel des Etrangers and
began to devour its prime beefsteaks. This we kept up for six days
occasionally varying it by a little sight-seeing; I went three days to
the Museum and one to Pompei. Then we got strength enough to go
to Rome where we found the Pension Chapman moved to 76 Niccolo
Tolentino, opposite the old Constanzi, now sold to the Jesuits. The

468

