OCTOBER 1881 T0 APRIL 1882]

Souakin and thence Southwesterly among the Lions, shooting. The
steamer generally stops at Jeddah on the Mecca side of the Red Sea,
but now avoids Arabia and the cholera. I ate some plum—pudding
one night and saw my parrot again. He did not say the word plainly
enough, so I made him repeat it after me and then he said: “It is go-
ing to shift its direction this way.” Odd language for a parrot. Spitta,
who has seen it here several times, thinks it cannot come before May.
Thursday I went to Sakkarah. I found some stones on the site of
Memphis, but hardly anything to buy; Farrakh1 had bought every—
thing, they said. \Ve, Montbard, Dieudonné, I and Said rode the
donkeys back by Abusir, Zawyet el Meitin2 and Shoberment. On the
way Said pawed some stones out of the sand, which he had hidden.
Dieudonné declared that it was the ﬁnest excursion he had ever made
in his life; we were at one time fully in the desert; then we came to the
black land and we saw the glory of the sunset through the Palms and
the Pyramids. Saturday I was at the Hagen’s and saw most of the
Spitta—Farrakh antiquities again, the third house I had seen them in.
Spitta said the Wiedemanns had come to the Hotel du Nil. The
Judge thought Montbard would ﬁnd material for a good sketch in his
Court, but I have not seen Montbard since. Judge Farman came
from Alexandria and returned yesterday. He wanted me to translate
the New York obelisk for his Scribner article; which took my after-
noon yesterday. I could do it much better if I could see the Obelisk
itself. So I forbade him to quote me. He did lose some of his coins,
about three hundred dollars’ worth, and some papers including a let-
ter from the Khedive which he wishes to print, and, what bothers
him most, his memoranda of addresses and all sorts of things. The
new Consul has concluded to take a furlough and see if he cannot get
better. He leaves tomorrow. I advised him to it a week ago. Yester—
day morning I trotted down to Aly Gabree’s3 house in Gizeh again
where F arrakh sold me some papyrus, Greek, Coptic and Pehlevi4—
only specimens. He had a great lot of fragments—such as have gone to
Berlin and the Louvre through the purchases of Brugsch. .

1. Farrakh was an antiquity dealer living in the village of Gizeh.

2. Zawyet el Meitin is here a mistake for Zawyet el Aryan; Shoberment is Chabrament on the Baht e1 Libeni .

3. Aly Gabree is another Arabic dealer in antiquities.

4. Pehlevi papyri are very rare. See E. Sachau. “Fragments von Pahlavi Papyri, aus Aegypten" in "Zeit-
schrift fur agyptische Sprache." vol. XVI, 1878. pp. 1 14—1 16. A ﬁne specimen is in the collection of Miss
Theodora \Vilbour. probably the fragment quoted here.

81

