[CHAPTER TEN

fallen. There are many portions of statues in this part, one great pil-
lar-hall has collossal statues between the pillars all around.l

Abd el Megeed has a son Hassan and thinks now he need not take
another wife. He has reduced the price of the Demotic papyri Revil-
lout came to see last year, from three thousand pounds to ﬁve hun-
dred pounds and I wrote so to Revillout at his request. Mohammed
Mohassib’s four months’ sickness has made him still thinner and
thinned his collection. Scarabs are rare and dear; hardly any good
ones.

February 1;, 1891 We left Luxor and next day saw Monsieur Mar-
chant at Erment. He sold us one hundred kilos
of sugar at three and a half cents a pound. In New Orleans they told
me it cost ﬁve cents a pound to make it. We paid that for reﬁned
sugar in Cairo. Then we kept on till the ﬁfteenth when we met Dr.
Worthington and the Birkbecks in the ﬂ/ma, just below Edfoo. Dora
and I spent an hour with them, and two more going to and fro. They
have had a good time and speak conﬁdently of coming next year, and
of coming with us. Miss Birkbeck was surprised that Dora had not
read Makrizi’s “History of the Copts,” which she wanted to read so
much. And so for two days, Dora has been reading Wiistenfeld’s
German translation of it2. We have not made excursion and now

February 17, 1891 In a very high wind with only about a quarter of
our sail spread, are nearing Assuan. The great-
est inclination of the boat has been ten degrees.

Yesterday I tried the new and the old felucca sailing in a
moderate wind. The old one conquered easily, much to the surprise,

it will be, of Mr. Dale.

February 18, 1891 This morning we hauled up into our old place

under the quai at Elephantine and the Arab
telegraph says my old friend Abd-el-Haady is dead. He owned a
small dahabeeyeh, the Vittoria, and was so good a captain that I of-
fered him command of ours when Rais Tanyos left. He seemed weary
when I was in Cairo.

 

1. J. Capart and M. W'erbrouck, “Thebes: The Glory of a Great Past." New York. 1926. ﬁg. 23. D. 41.
2. H. F. Wastenfeld. "Geschichte der Copten. Uebersetzung und Anmerkungen." Gottingen. 1845.

588

