[CHAPTER FIVE

Minerva wears, over her boats, garments on which we read: “Cami-
cia d’Imbarcazione.”

December 27, 188 5 We have just come into Corfu with our yellow

ﬂag up. We look about at the splendid panorama
and wonder if we may go on shore. Three other Austrian Lloyd’s
steamers lie here, two with yellow ﬂags. The Greek doctor comes,
tells us there is forty-eight hours quarantine against Trieste and so
we shall not have the three hours on shore the little Captain has
been promising us. The town looks very Italian to me; the old vil-
lages in the distance have the long sharp Italian towers. The passen-
gers are grumbling about the quarantine. I hope only that we shall
have better luck in Alexandria. Here we land only our freight, and
the four passengers go to the Lazaretto. It is a glorious day and the
sun reduces me to my thin overcoat. To-morrow we shall be in
the warmer sea. Now to our Sunday breakfast.

Breakfast is over and there are minutes more. It is said that there
is forty-eight hours quarantine in Alexandria against Trieste, but if
there be, which I doubt, we may spend the time on board, which in
the harbor will not be disagreeable. The big Roumanian who left two
metres of snow to ﬁnd rest for his bleeding bronchia in Corfu is
solemn at the idea of the bed he is to have till Tuesday. The doctor is
steadier and stammers less in his bad Italian than when last evening
he said Austria-Kee for Austriaci and was rather airily instructed by
the little slave Captain that that, although from his little knowledge
of Italian, il Signor Medico did not so intend it, was an offence
against the government and could not be permitted on an Austrian
vessel, even inadvertently and by a loyal Austrian as the Signor
Medico was, by birth and sentiment. The little Swiss doctor’s red
nose spread its color all over his little face and from behind his spec-
tacles he tried to sputter that he was not a man to be talked to in
that way, even by a man who happened to have the pre-potenza on
the ship. But the Captain glibly put him down, ﬁero, as he said, of
his ﬁrepotenza, and after a few minutes’ lecture declared the incident
closed, as they say in the Chambre des Deputés. Closed except for a
little explanation which must be had a quattriocchi, four-eyedly, as
we might say. Hours after when he was gone, the doctor joined little

334

