[CHAPTER FOUR

VIENNA And still I get no letters. Four times I have been to
Thursday the Poste Restante in the morning for the letters I
May I 5, 1884 wrote you a week ago to send there, and this morning
I get only a postal from Ned. I write now in Politzer’s
Parlor, in which are seventy—six paintings, some of them very ﬁne,
and a lot of people waiting; my card is numbered twenty-two. I rode
to Venice Thursday with an Italian family migrating from Rome and
bringing a hen with them; the hen was very affectionate and at
certain points of the journey unsweetly familiar. The Babbo and the
children were beautiful. And I heard a lot of good Italian for they
spoke wonderfully well. In Venice I found Dr. Bliss departing and I
saw the Academy and Santa Barbara and the sunshine on the lagoon
and the islands and the moonlight on the harbor and the Grand
Canal. In the Academy it struck me that the peculiar light we ﬁnd on
the Venetian pictures comes from spots of white put on with a dry
brush over the strong ground colors, which produces the effect of mo-
saic where the lights are made by spotting in white bits. Then in St.
Marks in the old mosaics I found the same effect as in the Academy
pictures. Veronese, perhaps, employs this method more showily than
the rest, but it is the charm of his pictures, and they must be seen
with a certain oblique light in order to bring out the white spots.
Look at some of his pictures in the Louvre and see if they are not mo-
saics painted. The weather was perfect in Venice and I have never
seen the water and the water lights so well. But there was none of the
gorgeous coloring moderns paint.

On the way here I talked with a Breslau family just coming from a
month in Italy. The tall blonde daughter when I asked her what
statue pleased her most said Michel Angelo’s and when I asked which
of his she had forgotten the name, but she described the Laocoon.
The father and mother didn’t seem to have so much cognizance of
what they had seen as she. I went to the Grand Hotel here. Sunday
night and Monday to 19 Gonzagagasse, where the Professor Dr.
Politzer was out. But the Porter’s little girl told me he would soon
come “mit eigner Kutscher” with private coachman, she said proudly
as though I wasn’t used to such things. He came and put me in a
chair with his half wig and asked questions and put down on a book
that I had been deaf in one ear three or four years and told me that

322

