NOVEMBER 1887 TO MAY 1888]

Vatican was malarious with pilgrimage; the Pope has already raked
in six million dollars from these rank zealots, mostly out of France.
Rome changes fast; whole quarters have arisen since we four explored
it eight years ago; the picturesque pest houses along the Tiber are
falling now to make way for Parisian building. They are learning
from the cholera. But not so much as in Naples, where the worst
parts are already rebuilt and the streets are wonderfully clean, the
main avenues being cleared constantly.

We reviewed Rome leisurely for nine days and came to Florence
where we found Gridley whom we had left at Naples. He has made
the best Egyptian photographs I have seen. They went to Palmyra,
a hundred and ﬁfty miles desert ride from Damascus, that he might
photograph it. He not only gets better results than any other I know,
but he gets them every time. I have strongly advised him to exhibit
in the French Show next year, where I think Americans will stand
a good chance of rewards.

Mr. Fiske has had two strokes of apoplexy, but promises to be
well enough to come to Egypt next winter. We dined with him in his
book palace, which he is obliged to leave, the owner wanting it.

Schiaparelli dined with us and was here last evening. He brought a
communication from Erman to the Berlin Academy stating that they
have in the Egyptian Museum one hundred and sixty cuneiform
tablets from Tell-el-Amarnal, bought of Theodore Graf, a Cairo mer-
chant, who sold the great Fayoom papyrus2 ﬁnd to the Archduke
Rainer of Vienna. This will astonish people in Egypt. Professor Sayce,
too, who thought to read the names of Amasis and Apries of the
Twenty-sixth Dynasty on the four tablets which Frériay sent to Bou—
riant, will be astonished to learn that the one hundred and sixty, and
probably all the rest, are of the time of Amenophis III and IV of the
Eighteenth Dynasty near a thousand years before. Some are letters
from kings of Babylon, big letters eighteen by ten inches, to these
Pharaohs. Dooshratta writes to Amenophis III about the marriage
of his daughter Ti-i-i, known well to us in hieroglyphics. The two
Amenophis are called N’mmuriya and Napkhururiya near enough to
Nebmara and Nefrkhepruara, their throne names. \Vith one royal

 

I. A. Erman. “Der Thontafelfund von Tell-Amarna." Meeting of May 3rd.
2. Papyrus Erzherzog Rainer. Fuhrer durch die Austellung. Vienna. 1892.

469

