[CHAPTER FOUR

FROM NAPLES ..... Friday morning with the blessing of
T0 SCYLLA Benedetta I got breakfast and to the train and
Saturday off for Naples at seven-forty. There were four

February 2, 1884 Americans in the compartment, one who had

been three years in China, who thought China
would not ﬁght France, Mr. and Mrs. Hendricks and a Judge Ran-
som who seemed to pilot them. Hendricks reminded me strongly of
Wendell Phillips in all but the lower portion of his face and I told
him of the resemblance. He said he had never heard Phillips speak,
but greatly wished to as he thought him the greatest orator living.
We talked much of many things and he agreed with me that the
great obstacle to Democratic success was that it was ruled by a
united South which provoked the North to be united and the Judge
thought that if some of the Southern states would go Republican,
the Democratic party might have a chance. I reiterated my faith
that it would make some blunder which would let us win again this
year. From the station I went to the Steamer ofﬁce and got my
place and then to the Hotel de Vésuve, the Hotel des Etrangers where
we last stopped having no life. My third floor window looked on
Vesuvius which was quiet, for a wonder, and I carefully bolted a
door which I soon found led to Mr. and Mrs. Hendrick’s room. We
met at the restaurant and this morning I found they knew and liked
very much Mollie Landers. I gave them Haruisch’s address for the
statue of the great Carolina Democrat ......

A messenger came at nine to-day to say that the Seine would leave
at eleven; she had passed my window at four in the morning. I
found Mme. Maspero at breakfast from which she jumped, and
after a few words she looked disappointed and said: “11 me fait mal
de vous voir marcher comme ca.” I was inducted into a whole room
in the center of the boat, and the top berth taken down; and I
bought a steamer chair to stretch my legs on and a round table which
will be useful on the other boat as well as on this. There are but nine
passengers ...... There are two English women who are going
to sight-see Egypt, one German ditto, who is a friend and summer
neighbor near Munich of Ebers, a bearded priest and a man. We had

258

