FEBRUARY 1884. TO MAY 1884]

sulate-General, asking that he send thirty hard stone scarabs of
assorted colors, ancient and not broken; it didn’t say anything about
paying for them, a rather important matter, as they are not to be
picked up every day. Brugsch has been devoting himself to Sutro
since Saturday; perhaps he wishes to photograph more tombs. . .

Sutro astonished Luxor by buying yesterday a room of antiquities
for twenty-ﬁve hundred francs of Mohammed Mohassib, much
good, more bad. To-day everybody is agog to sell to him. He took
three mummies yesterday in addition, on which I ﬁnd the price high
and narrowly escaped eight more tonight when he leaves for Cairo.
Brugsch says he owns twenty-one hundred acres in San Francisco1
and from what he asked me about Brugsch, I judge that my surmise
two pages back was not unjust. I dined with him and his niece and he
told me he had a man in Germany gathering a library; he had forty
thousand volumes and meant to go as far as two hundred thousand.
I fear he buys much as Dr. Ayen bought paintings. However, he
thinks, with his big German head. What a pickle Sargent has got
himselfinto in Berlin by reporting to his government that Bismarck’s
inﬂuence was on the wane. Nothing else could have provoked such
ire. It is evident that Bismarck feels it to be true but is going to kick
against it hard. Do not have the slightest fear for us. We are among '
friends. I took Mme. through the market to-day and at once three or
four people made it their business to make a place for us and clear
the way wherever we wished to go. You know it has always been the
case that when the news from Egypt has been alarming in Europe,
we here have been innocently comfortable. The Mahdi is at Obeid,
many hundred miles away, and is much more concerned about Gor-
don at Khartoom and the English at Suakim than he is about Egypt.
It is quite cool and we have not yet breakfasted on deck, which we
usually do in the warmer days of February. It is eleven o’clock and
the postal boat starts at four in the morning. Mme. is sewing some
torchons and Maspero amusing himself at the piano, where he im-
provises much and not badly.

 

I. The Sutro gardens at San Francisco.

293

, E— .
‘ w n
l l

” l l »

