NOVEMBER 1888 TO JULY 1889]

America telling of the Election, revived the joy of it. I hang up a
portrait of President Harrisonl in the Helena daily Hera/d, sent by
Mr. Harris. It does me good every time I look at it. Now white men
in the territories and black men in the States shall count in ’92.

Deceméer 7, 1888 Read up. The English have revived the press-
gang and are taking all slaves into the Army.
Khaleel has one, with a white beard, whom he has twice bribed a
soldier to leave; the man belongs in Qoornah where there are hiding
places and whither Insinger takes him. Frénay sent to Mensheeyeh
for a famous paper signed by Bonaparte which Maspero wants a
photograph of. The owner sent back that he would soon visit Frénay
and bring it. So Frénay came on board at eventide and went to
Mensheeyeh, Insinger taking up the fugitive slave on the way.

December 8, 1888 Early we visited the owner of the famous paper,

supposed to grant all sorts of immunities to this
family which is Shereef, that is, descended from the Prophet. The
spiritual head of it received Frénay with affection, us with respect.
After coffee and cigarettes and an hour the business head of the
family came, found out what we wanted and that we were not likely
to make away with the precious scroll, went away and came with it.
The spiritual head had told us that when Bonaparte arrived at
Mensheeyeh with the French army, Sheikh Abdallah, their great
grandfather, got together as many public women as possible, includ-
ing those of his own household and set up tents in which he dis-
tributed them. He also made ready an Azuma, which is the grandest
word they have for a banquet, and then going forth at the head of the
Elders, he salaamed Bonaparte and said: “I am come to battle with
you; behold my munitions and my troops.” Hereupon great rejoic-
ings and hence this precious paper. I took it with a certain awe;
it was in Arabic. But there was a French indorsement saying that
this deed for sixty acres had been registered on such a day of
Messidor in the year seven of the Republic of Geergeh and that two
thousand eight hundred and eighty medius had been paid for the

 

1. The republimn President, elected in 1888.

489

