NOVEMBER 1888 TO JULY 1889]

from the Great Pyramid and they pretend that Lord Elgin is dead!
However, outside bone—digging at Sakkara is brought to a standstill.
The Museum will do the digging and sell the bones. This because a
Greek protégé of Baringl wants a slice and Rostovitch had the con-
tract. I paid my pound and received a card which entitles me to
enter all the closed places where there are antiquities; Bouriant told
me he had the honor to do this ﬁrst of all; I think I told you I saw
him the evening before he started. Cook will levy the pound on all
his passengers.

One of the mirror frames was spoiled and I had to renew it; when
the man left we sailed. Twenty minutes before, the girl left who
put the sewing-machine in order and thirty minutes before, the last of
the coal came. Then the Reis was afraid, because the wind was so
high, that it might push us against the other boats; it was almost
sunset and he was leaving the young wife. But Rais Abd-el-Hadi who
came to say good-bye and get a little note for Mr. Crete, privately
told me he thought we could get out and he and a lot of other men
helped vigorously.

When we were ﬁnally clear and had picked up the anchor by which
we had pulled the boat to windward, and while we were coiling the
ropes and the wind blew us up the mighty current without a sail, I
began to feel comfortably at home. The Rais thinks the wind is high,
but it is now near midnight and we are miles above Bedresheyn.
I have had a toothsome dinner and seen the stars and passed other
boats. But the men must rest so as to go on well in the high wind I
hope we shall have tomorrow. Aly has ﬁxed up the place much better
than you found it last year. Except the vacant shelves in the corners,
it looks quite homelike.

Sunday It is ten o’clock and we have done what took us

Noveméer I8, 1888 ten days last year, sailing all night. Nefady

says he isn’t sleepy, but the Rais thinks that the

wind is rather high for sailing. Really it isn’t, but to say so magni-
ﬁes his importance and his prudence.

I have a sort of Egyptian frame in which I think might go one of
the two photographs of me which you brought from America. It is in

1. Sir Evelyn Baring, lord Cromer.

475

