NOVEMBER 1888 TO JULY 1889]

Bring the ﬁlter, in a paper box now, which took so long to lose the
rubber ﬂavor.

Tuesday We are just arriving at Minieh, which we
November 20, 1888 reached last year December twenty-seventh.
Sailing nineteen days earlier, I have already
gained eighteen days more, and so am here thirty—seven days earlier.
We sailed all night Saturday, overtook Insinger Sunday at Bibbeh,
came to Beni Mazar Monday and to-day sail from nine P. M. to mid-
night to reach Minieh, three days and seven hours from Cairo. This is
something like the wind by which this boat went to Assuan in ten
days’ sailing time. Insinger outsails us a little but we can sail when it
would be unsafe for him. He seems as well as last year. Mariam’s eye
has a white spot in the centre which they put on something to eat
away. She can see a little around it. The other eye is as well as ever.
Little Mena was at Miss Thompson’s school awhile, but not long
enough greatly to change her behavior. The fat wife of one of the
Cairo Missionaries told me that Mena told her plainly that she did
not like her. Anna has her birthday to-morrow and I am invited to
dinner in consequence. The youngest has been made into a boy by
cutting her hair short. The little lump of a sister is as smiling as ever,
and as patient.

I have been so busy putting on door-handles and ﬁxing up things
that I have not had time to get out my books. But I hope to do it
éoo/zm. It has been cool enough ever since I landed; to-day, a sunny
day, the mercury has not reached seventy degrees. If it keeps on like
this we shall have to burn our lamp in the day time. I bought no an-
teekeh in Cairo except two scarabs of Amenophis II and IV, of a
Girgeh man who said Abd-el- Noor was in Cairo. And I had a glimpse
of him, he sitting before a shop, I 1n a carriage. I fear he has given up
the one-meal— a-day system. He looked big. But then I was going
pretty fast. Abd-enrahman told me the Berkeley 3 were coming in
three days. We think we are ahead of all dahabeeyehs this year. In-
singer has sent up a small freight boat with wood and Fritz’s furni-
ture for the Luxor house he has founded. He wants to have three
rooms done this winter, so that cold nights he may sleep ashore.

I enjoy hearing the ripple along the boat as she sails.
477

