[CHAPTER FOUR

to King Ptolemy the mother-loving God on behalf of Hippolos,
King’s Friend, Military Governor and Priest of Ptolemy Soter and of
Ptolemy Epiphanes and Eucharistos.”

Maspero bought a big Greek stone, a decree about the artizansl
which we have not read yet. Then we steamed to Girzeh and crossed
the river to Mesheyk, where we were two years ago, to see a newly
discovered statue escorted by the brother of the Great Abd el Noor.
Arriving we found deep down and in front of two pillars, one of which
bore the name of Ramses II, a black granite lion-headed sitting
statue like those Sekhmets we see in the Museums from the Temple
of Maut2 at Luxor. I said Ramses brought it thence to ornament
his temple and it is of Amenophis III. No, said Maspero, it is the
lion-headed Menheet of this eighth Nome. Khaleel cleared away the
dust beside her knees and Maspero lowered himself into the hole,
large enough only for one. He lighted a match and was silent. Then
I knew it was not Menheet. It was indeed a Sekhmet and of Amen-
ophis III, and it is interesting as showing that Maut’s temple at
Karnak began to be plundered of these statues, made in the Eight-
eenth Dynasty, as early as the Nineteenth. In the Twenty-second,
Shishonk ﬁlled up some of the gaps, for there were more than ﬁve
hundred of these lion-headed goddesses. Now they are dispersed,
eight in the Vatican, eight in Turin, eight in London, several in
Paris, two I found in the King’s Palace at Brussels3 and of the hun-
dreds left in place not one above ground is unmutilated. This one
was ﬁne and perfect and when the water of the inundation comes to
meet her will make her way to the Museum. Probably her mate ex-
ists and will be got out to accompany her. Now she is the only per-
fect one known in Egypt. Coming back I found that Said had dis-

covered in Girzeh a pair of Alexanders, one of them very pretty.

We go to Abydos tomorrow, to Keneh Thursday and to Luxor
Friday or Saturday. The foot goes well—on a donkey; I do not use
it for long walks yet.

I. E. Miller. “Inscriptions grecques de l'Egypte." in "Bulletin de Correspondance Hellénique." vol. IX.
1885. pp. 131-146.

a. A. H. Sayce. “On the Site of ThIa" in "Proceedings of the Society of Biblical Archaeology." vol. 7, 1884-
1885. p. 1 72. The statue is quoted by G. Maspero. “Guide to the Cairo Museum." Cairo. 1910. no. 346.
p. 140; H. Gauthier. “Les Statutes Thébaines de la déesse Sakhmet." in "Annales du Service des Antiqui-
tés." vol. XIX. 1919. p. 178. .

3. King's Palace at Brussels; A. Eisenlohr, "Egyptian Antiquities at Brussels" in "Proceedings of the So-
ciety of Biblical Archaeology." vol. XI. 1888—1889. pp. 256-257.

270

