NOVEMBER I887 TO MAY I888]

such stones, one the model I got of the Heretic King and his Queen
at Haggi Kandeel and the other of three or four king’s heads in the
Turin Museum. We journeyed on in the afternoon to Aboo Shoosha
and

yanuary I4 tracked along the bend, which the river makes to the
northeast until we could sail and then sailed to How.

yanuary 15 We started out to see if something might not be dis-

covered in this land of the Benroo, the Phenix of the
Pharoahs. But in vain; we found nothing more than I saw with
Maspero, years ago, except some stray stones in the temple-fort,
one with the cartouche of Ptolemy VII and a bit of wall on the edge
of the town, of old stones one with a fragment of cartouche which
may be of Ptolemy IV or XI, probably the elder. I spent much time
trying to buy the last half of a tablet of one named “Son of Isis he is
living” who was an arch prophet of Hathor Neferhotep here, some of
Nes-Khonsoo, same title, but the man had had a dollar last year for
permission to copy it and preferred to keep it for the sake of such
interest. So we sailed away without it and a good wind brought us
after half past one, to Dishneh at dark. I forgot to say that F rénay
had some of the cuneiform tablets and that Sidrak and be both were
sure they came from Haggi Kandeel. Frénay says also that a F ayoom
Bedaween has told him such stones were not uncommon in the
F ayoom. I hope the reading of them will explain their mystery.

LUXOR We spent four nights at Denderah and of the three
january 23, 1888 days in the temple I copied for two in the little
temple on the roof. The ﬁrst day Lottie and Dora

went with me and we ended with a Visit to the house of the Guardian,
Aly EHendi, whose little white wife interested us very much, though
of course I was not invited to see her. She is from the harem of Ismael
and the neighbors say receives a pension of ﬁve pounds a month. I
had no idea that a mud house could be so clean as hers is. After my
last day’s work of coming back to the boat, they showed me the sin-
gle stateroom quite burned out and it seemed wonderful that the
whole boat should not have been destroyed. Lottie had set a spring
candlestick, in the socket of which an unburnt stamp stuck, to burn

457

