NOVEMBER 1888 TO JULY 1889]

move till he has a credit of nine thousand pounds; he does not mean
that the money shall give out when he is half over the river. Gayet
says that Mme. Bouriant says Mme. Grébaut will be happy at
Gizeh because she can raise cabbages, and that the Grébaut antici-
pate with pride a carriage at the expense of the Government. Dora is
keeping up her bathing; the nurse is with her again after having been
forbidden by the Doctor; they seem to get a great deal of enjoyment
out ofit. Dora has not been in the town since the twenty-second; it is
now twenty-six days since that horrible chill and just six months
since I sailed. The Doctor has been to-day and ﬁnds the lung loosen-
ing; he tells me we may count on being here a month longer; so we
shall see more of the Egyptian summer than I had expected to. May
the Sun-god be merciful to us.

CAIRO Another week brings us to the last Friday in Rama-
May 24, I889 danl and I cannot report so much progress as I would
like. . . . . . After a month’s fast we have been

inundated with letters and papers and made glad by the inundation.
Everybody else here is praying for the Nile’s which he hopes to see
next month. The water has already begun to turn green and give the
color Nile Greenz, I had never expected to see it, but man proposes
and woman disposes. Hassan Speke took me over the other evening
to see his father-in-law, Ahmed Bey, whom Mohammed Aly sent to
France for ﬁve years, three in Paris and two at the Cavalry School
we visited at Saumur. A pleasing old man talking French fairly well
and full of reminiscences of men we read about. He has a large house,
large enough for his large family and can take in Hassan’s for three
months when Hassan goes up the river. We had coffee and gassy
lemonade and then all went around the corner to neighbor Abd-el-
Megeed Efendi’s, whose father died recently and who consequently
has two readers of the Koran at work all the month. They spell each
other and recite from memory in chanting style, one much like an
average priest, but one precisely as I have heard from the high seat
in Quaker meeting—the same long pauses in the midst of the sen-
tence, the same sliding up and down of the voice, the same snort at

1. Ramadan. the month of abstinence, see E. \V. Lane. “Manners and Customs of the Modern Egyptians."
London. 1898. p. 479. and 105—106.
2. For the Green Nile. see G. Maspero. "The Dawn of Civilization." 2nd. edit. London. 1896. pp. 22—23.

533

