[CHAPTER FIVE

to me and to herself to be nearly if not quite well. Ferry lives in a
house with her, her husband and two children; they are all Michi-
ganders ......

Yesterday we devoted to examining the French School in the
morning and the American in the afternoon. Maspero likes his best;
in both there is mainly rote learning and these Copts have wonderful
memories for words.

LUXOR I got together the things I had bought in the
W ednesday morning. At Mohammed Mohassib’s a brown wo-
rl/Iarc/z 10, 1886 man of thirty talked with me while they sent for
him. She had, not a ring in her nose, but a red stud,

which looked like a peculiar pimple.

I found Mrs. Armour alone in the only American dahabeeyeh of
this year; she is a sweet woman if she does come from Chicago; Mr.
and Mrs. Armour are friends of Philo, millionary friends.

My weak—hearted English girl is no better in Luxor. She has been
able to see but little; the indigestion which accompanies the feeble-
ness is rather worse. She and her mother tried to go down by the
postal boat last night, but a squad of British officers, who have the

preference, took the places they had engaged. I wish I could have
helped her.

NEGADEH At noon after consular visits I gave Philo the last Galig-

nani’s and as he left, the plank was drawn in, and with
Insinger in tow and Guy Lussac’s steamer behind, we headed down
stream, amid ﬁring of guns and waving of handkerchiefs. I am glad
that the white hands waved for me. The bank was black with Lux-
orians mostly good friends who have something to sell.

As we passed Karnak we went up on the bridge to see the last of
the pylons and obelisks, More] and I; he said it was forever for him;
I hope it may be for months only.

The ﬂeet stopped at two at Negadeh and we visited and examined
the French School, of which Odescalchi is master. It is much like
the others. Mme. Guy Lussac asked the questions and some of the
boys were very shy; they are not accustomed to having a woman
read from a book.

376

