NOVEMBER 1889 T0 MARCH 1890]

the bed rock Oorooshwan stirred up a tiny snake, the second I have
seen free in Egypt. Sayce was sure he had exhausted this place, and
did not stop; so he was much surprised when I showed him a copy of
a tablet to the God of Edfoo, which I found there. I too was sur-
prised when I found that Daressy had copied this tablet also, and
printed it in the last number of Maspero’s'magazine.l

\Ve spent the afternoon at Silsileh searching for rock inscriptions
westward, which Robertson saw last year, and at eleven o’clock

reached Kom Om bos.

February 7, 1890 We came on to Assuan, passing Mr. Berkeley’s

Thames three miles below. He and Dr. Worthing-
ton sailed in their little boat beside us to the post oﬂice, and then
called on us where we moored at Elephantine. Sayce and I explored
the island and bought a few ostraca. Some he recognized as coming
from Karnak. He reads with ease the very diﬂicult Greek cursive
writing on these potsherds.

February 8, 1890 We wandered in the Bazaars. The men took down

the hundred thirty-ﬁve foot yard and put up the
new one only eighty-three feet long. It makes the Seven Hathors look
less like a junk than the old balacoon yard of sixty-ﬁve feet. We tea-ed
on the Timsaalz. An English Oﬂ'icer named Judge and an Italian
King’s Aid de Camp were there. The Italian told me of the starving
condition of the enemy, of whom ﬁfteen hundred men, women and
children were “massacred” at Toski last summer. If they had not
eaten their horses, he thought they would have killed the three hun-
dred Egyptian Cavalry with whom he was. Should the dervishes ever
get to Assuan, he thought they would go to Cairo, as the population
was all in their favor, and they would ﬁnd plenty to eat. Judge told
the girls of an old Dervish whom he disarmed and hid in his tent,
“when the prisoners were shot,” and now has with him as a servant.
They asked if the prisoners were usually shot. He said “not oﬂi-
cially,” except in raids.

The Rais, cook—boy and four men went home above Philae,
Moorganny to be married to the Rais’ daughter.

 

I. G. Daressy "Remarques et Notes § 11!," in “Recueil de Travaux." vol. X. 1888. DD- x42"143-

55I

