[CHAPTER ONE

statue with many injured hieroglyphics; Pastophore of an Ur-
Kherp—uba (grand master artizan, the Chief Priest in Memphis)
Saru of Ptah, Horseisis; Sitting scribe of the woman-house whose
mother was A—tau—nefere; Statue of Sabaco.1

This and other things all refuse stuff not worth taking to the
Museum.

Then on the way to the Temple on a foundation stone an inscrip-
tion of an Ur-Kherp-uba, saru of the Southland and the Northland
(the two Egypts) Ha, The Blessed.

The Temple inscription Brugsch gave in his “Geog. Dict.” and
Mariette since in his “Monuments Divers.”2

Then on a winding way through ﬁelds where people were plough—
ing and sowing by the summer route to Sakkarah and past the cor—
ner of the crumbling Step Pyramid. It has never yet been remarked
I think that its six steps are in height exactly 22, 21, 9.0, 19, 18 and
I7 cubits.

Colonel McKaye and Steiner the valet who bosses him, had pre-
ceded us, not ﬁnding Memphis interesting, to Mariette’s3 House, and
there, on the broad terrace of the roomy shanty, we took our lunch
under the German’s superintendence. Then the guardian took us to
see the bare vastness of the Apis corridors from which I bring away
the impression of the hugeness and perfection of the sarcophagi and
the difﬁculty of putting them in place, and the vandalism that tore
the tablets from the rock frames with which the walls are honey-
combed and exiled them to perish in the damp basement of the
Louvre. Not all, for the angry River God revenged his brother, seiz—
ing one load as it came within his grasp and embalming it forever in
the fertile Shrine of Osiris. So to the Tomb of Ti,‘1 where are surely
the ﬁnest bas-reliefs in the world. The artist who did this could show
more relief in the eighth of an inch than has ever been shown since.
We traced its scenes and then wandered about the desert hills, for
here one is in the midst of the desert. I can easily understand how
after some days of its monotonous sands one should feel a burst

1. See H. Brugsch, “Thesaurus inscriptionum Aegyptiacarum." Vol. V. Leipzig, 1891. pp. 1062 et seq.

2. Exterior of West Hall of the Temple of Ramses II. See Porter-Moss. loc. cit. vol. III. p. 218.

3. Auguste Mariette, French Egyptologist (1321—1881). See H. Wallon, “Notice sur la vie et les travaux de
Mariette-Pacha," in the "Comptes Rendus de l'Académie des Inscriptions et Belles Lettres. Paris.
1884. pp. 481—584; G. Maspero, "Mariette. Notice biographique". in the “Bibliothéque égyptologique."
vol. XVIII. Paris. 1904. pp. I—ccxxw. '

4. Photographic Plates in G. Steindorﬁ', ”Das Grab de Ti." Leipzig, 1913.

I6

