[CHAPTER THREE

PHILAE Not being in a hurry we took a train to Philae. We
Sunday were ready for it a few minutes after eight which
March 11, 1883 was the appointed hour; we reached the bank op-
posite the Holy Island at half past nine. Ifyou ever
go without me for dragoman, remember to start at sunrise; take don-
keys or camels or a boat but do not take the Nubian railroad. Tis
better to go on foot, quicker and cooler. I worked so continuously
that I had not time to look about; there were texts I wanted to cor-
rect and some to copy. So I did not go up on the pylons or to the
Osiris room; I hope the time may come when living in a dahabeeyeh
beside the Island with my texts on board I may correct them at lei-
sure in the cool of the morning and evening, if it be in March, and
have time to enjoy the wonderful beauties of this sacred spot besides.
The Keeper whose wife two years ago when Elsen and I camped here
was the handsomest black woman I have seen in Egypt, told me she
died two months ago; she had a cough. They had four children two
years ago; there are but three now, though one is only four months
old. Maspero made him a salaried keeper and his twenty-six francs
a month will enable him to have four wives now. He talked with me
about Mr. Fisk whose paper he shows to all visitors. You remember
the Professor employed him to dig out a Coptic church there. Return-
ing, the smoke stack of the newly arrived Cook boat was seen from
afar. “Quelle chancel” said Maspero to whom the Cook parties seem
poison. They do not grate so harshly on my less sensitive nerves.

Monday We have wheeled down rapidly past Ombos, past
March 12, 1883 Gebel Silsileh to Edfoo, where we stopped an hour
to get a bit of sandstone with some wretched Cop—

tic marks on it and we are now approaching El Kab where we are to

stay the night.

We arrived at three and soon Charmes and I were on our way to
the east temple, I had my donkey-man of last year who had seen me
in Luxor this year. He was just married, had paid four guineas and
“written for two more” (to be paid in case of divorce), but would
gladly take another if I would pay the ﬁve guineas needful. As this
Ahmed lives under the sycamore by which we tie up at El Kab you
will be likely to see him some day. Near the Temple, which is a mile

232

