NOVEMBER 1885 TO MAY 1886]

Saturday Tuesday we went over to the South Pyramid of
yanuary 16, 1886 Lisht and all went in but Mlle. Grébaut and me,
she because it was dirty and difﬁcult and I be-

cause once is enough to go into a hole which has no hieroglyphs.
When Miss Moncrieff and Miss Western came out they were de-
lighted to know that no other woman had been in but Mme. Mas-
pero, and they further than she. Major Ross, one of the “Hindoo
engineers,” as the Bosp/zore Egyptian calls them, the Englishmen, or
rather Scotchmen who have learned irrigation in Hindoostan and
who have been imported to supersede the natives in the manage-
ment of the inundation, was along; and he and Moncrieff thought it
possible to get the fourteen feet of water out of the sarcophagus pit,
with a relay of pumps. Sheik Rooby, of whom I have written much
to you, was left there to attend to the work and we came away re-
joicing. Toda went with the Scotchmen and lassies to the train and
hied away to Cairo; we steamed southward and ceased not until
Geerzeh (which seems to be a corruption of Gezeereh), el Howa, a
village almost opposite the Capital of the old twenty-second nome.
Wednesday we came on to Magaga in the nineteenth. Thursday to
Minieh in the eighteenth nome, stopping by the way at Tehneh,
where Maspero had heard of a stone with a Greek inscription. He and
the rest went in search of it, while I alone started to see the things,
mostly Greek and Roman, which Murray describes,‘ to the south of
the Old Town. They walked; I found a donkey in ﬁve minutes, one of
the advantages of going alone. First I came to the famous inscription
ofAkoris, set up in behalfof Ptolemy Epiphanes to Isis Mochias, the
Saviour. Others had read it Lochias, but by my peerless opera glass it
is none other than Mochias, although the M and Q are run together
so as to make to the blundering observer a Latin L. Nester L’Hote
has copied this with great care2 and I have copied from his MSS. in
the National Library; also the tablet of Ramses III, the Romans and
horses,3 and the tomb at the door ofwhich a Roman makes offering.
It is odd that Murray should not mention the door casing of this

1. Murray. “Egypt." 1880, pp. 404—405.

2. Nestor l'Hbte. “Lettres écrites d'Egypte en 1838 et 1839.” Paris, 1840, p. 37.

3. The Romans and horses: see W. Wreszinski. “Bericht ﬁber die photographische expedition." Hallo.
1027. pl. XI. A and p. 30; see ibidem, pp. 28—31. for the description of the monuments of Tehneh.

34S

