NOVEMBER 1890 TO MAY 1891]

tablets and has found in them a people who seem to be Hebrew,
these in Syria and long before the supposed Exodus. He also pointed
out to me that in I Sam. XIII, 6, 7 the Hebrews are other than the
Israelites. This carries back their history.1

Saturday the twenty-ninth we bought new stays for the Seven
Hat/tors and got the railway freight on board; I had measured her for
the stays Friday. Two Lansings came from Brindisi with Sayce.
..... A letter from Dale says the boat will be ready in a week
or two, but that there is too much water for my excursions and that
Miss Strang is engaged. Insinger, writing from Luxor, is ludicrously
melancholy. His boat is beside ours, ready for business. Hassan
Speke has nothing yet. Salah will go with Golenischeff, now gone up
with the Czarevitchz, for whom arches and decorations line these
streets. The Newmans arrive, after a month at Ramleh, to go up
Tuesday to their boat which Mr. Cook has left for them at Philae.
Mr. Chester has returned a call I had not made; the Goodisons are to
come and go up with him in a little boat, I hope with less trouble than
before.

Sunday, November the last, I wrote the twelve foregoing pages
while the Reis with ﬁfteen men at two piastres each took down the
mast and rigged the new stays; they need a rawhide to cover the top.
After noon Professor Sayce brought Mr. Corbett Beyr, private Sec-
retary to the Khedive, holidaying when as now Tewﬁk is at Helwan,
and we went to see as we supposed the Admiral, reported to be of-
fered at six hundred ﬁfty pounds. It turned out to be the Philae fa-
. mous in the “[000 Mile:,”3 whose brave old Rais and owner, Haggi
Khamees, feels himself and is I think near the tomb. We palavered
an hour and came within sixteen pounds of buying her. She is ready
and the Professor longs to be on the river. She is ancient but
M ’hamed the caulker tells me he put into her frame two hundred ﬁfty
loads of sunt timber four years ago and three hundred would build
another like her. In intervals of parley I estimated with the caulker

for a sister boat new £600 except rope £20. Cloth sail £30. Awnings
£15. Canteen £50. Farsh £20. Oars £7. Poles £1. Anchors £6. Total

I. John A. \Vilson. “The 'Eperu of the Egyptian I nscriptions' in ‘Americau Journal of Semitic Languages
and Literatures.’ " vol. XLIX. 1933. pp. 275-280.

2. The Czarevitch: the future Nicholas II.

3. The book of Miss Amelia B. Edwards, “A Thousand Miles up the Nile." London. 1877.

57I

 

