NOVEMBER 1886 TO APRIL 1887]

ERMENT After ten days sojourn in Luxor where we saw the
February 4, I887 monuments and Mrs. Foote and the Blackies and
the Germans and the English painter, Geo. F.
Watts and his wife, and others more, besides our Luxor friends; Mr.
Insinger having arrived with his little puH-puff, we hoisted sail yes-
terday and came nearly to this place, ﬁnishing the voyage this
morning. Mme. Bouillon is not here, but in her new apartment 49 rue
Lepelltier, Paris, whither M. Bouillon transferred most of his be-
longings last summer and will go himself before we do, to stay. We
brought Mrs. Foote and the Blackies up here last Monday by the
postal boat to see the Sugar Factory and went home in our small
boat, after M. Bouillon had carried us two-thirds of the way by spe-
cial train. Oddly enough he, who has made beet as well as cane
sugar, thinks that when the improved processes are applied to cane
it will be able to drive the beet out of the market. I think he hardly
takes into account the advantage of doing the work in a cooler
climate and near the consumer.

I have a letter from Philo A. dated Lucknow. He is on his way
East to Chicago which he hopes to reach in July. The Italian priest
at Luxor of whom he took lessons was glad to hear from him. We are
now in search of temples and pretty girls.

ASSUAN We have yours of January I 3th and Lottie has
Feéruary 9, 1887 Amelia’s and very much interested we are in the
far away news. For we are at our journey’s end

and the great yard is to be taken down and we shall row down the
six hundred miles we have sailed up. Assuan is being deserted. Of
the many thousand red coats I left here last March but two hundred
remain, only enough to guard the pyramids of stores which are yet to
be taken down the river. Think of huge piles of boxes of corned beef,
part of the nine million pounds they ordered in one day, of Chicago
Armour. I am glad you are so much interested in the accounts the
children give. I think they are enjoying it very much. The English
painter, Watts, has arrived and comes in to see us. Day before yes-
terday we met the Germans of Leipzig on their way down. Our
American ﬂag is on its way down from Wadi Halfa. We had a visit
yesterday from the Mamoor, Hassan Bey, who talked some Arabic

423

