[CHAPTER FOUR

four hundred men were sunstruck out of three thousand. As a whole
the campaign is a defeat. It has gained nothing and has exasperated
the blacks who will probably have their revenge on Gordon and the
Egyptians left in Khartoom. England has begun in the Soodan the
policy of irritation which, begun two years ago at Alexandria, has

thrown Egypt into her hands. .

Monday We went ﬁrst to the Mudeer, a man who speaks
March 31, 1884 wonderfully well, a sitting orator. He told us about
the late ﬁnd two miles south of the town, of which

Maspero had been advised and which had grown by repetition from
Arab to Arab until it was told that there were a hundred ardebs (each
about six bushels) of gold. There are two ounces. Then we went to
the Zapteeyeh‘ and passed the chained prisoners to a room where were
many old pots, some of the Sixth Dynasty, or likesuch. A few were
quite graceful and of ﬁne granite and breccia. Then away past the
Stabl Antar and south to DronkaQand its palms where on a hot foothill
or rather mound we waited until a ladder was brought from the vil—
lage. After all it was nothing but a hole in the ground, ﬁrst perpen-
dicular and then horizontal, ill-deﬁned and now with nothing in it.
“\Vhat went ye out for to see?” a blaze of light and heat. This and
nothing more. But I saw the threshing of the beans and the chop—
ping of the straw and coming back alone, many things besides. I saw
that they were blasting the rock ten yards from the Stabl Antar. The
Mudeer had promised to prohibit it within any distance Maspero
might dictate. So he dictated thirty metres and will try to enforce
from Cairo. Rostovitch, the head Cook man, came in to see us. He
has to transport all troops on the Nile, Egyptian and English, and
has transport, steamers and barges enough lying here to take eight
thousand with their munitions. He ﬁnds the ofﬁcers of the Marine
less ignorant and less brutal than the army ofﬁcers. Cook proposes
to buy up all the steamers of the Egyptian government including this
and then do the Government’s work for hire. It is true they would
make great economies, but they would all be for Cook’s beneﬁt.
Apparently it gets the transport into English hands, but Cook is too

 

I. Zapteeych—Arabic for Police station.
2. Durunka.—Dronka——% hour south of the rock-tombs of Asyut, on the slope of the Libyan hills; Baedeker ,
"Egypt." 1929, p. 228.

302

. E— .
‘ ., n
l l

l l l »

