OCTOBER 1881 TO APRIL 1882]

gether the fragments so as to make complete bas-reliefs; there are
many and of only two do there exist copies. No such work has ever
been done before and I do not know how far it will be possible. I had
never supposed that it would be a part of my work to rebuild an
Egyptian temple and to succeed in that the last of the Pharaohs.
Nine houses are said to have been built of it; one of the appropria-
tors, Mr. Shakally, has not yet appeared before the Wekeel; he has
left Karnak.

The estimates of houses to be taken to clear the temple of Luxor
continues. The VVekeel and Engineer come to visit the Mudeer every

day.

Thursday At Ali Moorad’s fantaiseeyeh last night I met
7anuary 19, 1882 again some pleasant Americans of the Zingara
and to-day they spread their sails for Cairo. In

the afternoon the Eyre/[e spread her’s for Assuan.

I saw the VViedemanns who complain bitterly of the cold. . . . .
Abd-el-Voor, the French Consul at Girgeh, has come down to look
after the French house on the temple. The engineer reports that Mus-
tapha will not let him come in to estimate the British house.

I had applied for two nights a poultice, a handkerchief full of hot
water, to my jaw and this morning the result appeared. I can now
shut my mouth without sensation.

Friday The cold weather seems abating. The engineer
yammry 20, 1882 ﬁnished today the estimates for the houses to be
taken out of the Temple and he and the \Vekeel
are gone. Abd-el—Noor follows in the morning. I went over to Karnak
in the afternoon and looked after Khonsu’s temple and pylon. My
little donkey-boy Mohammed seems to have a bad cough, says he
has had it four months and that he coughs much nights. But he
drives his donkeys stoutly and without complaining. . . . . In
this cold weather the Arabs complain of neck and ears and forehead.
It seems to me that this tendency to cover up head and face is in-
herited from their mothers. Nearly all our dahabeeyehs are gone but
there is a Cook steamer and a Postal steamer and about ﬁfty people
at the hotels. Everybody is getting over a cold.

117

