NOVEMBER 1885 TO MAY 1886]

north and west it has unequalled view of Nile and mountain. Very
quiet and peaceful it is, too much so, I suppose for the Nile traveller
who wishes to be surrounded by anteekeh-vendors and ﬂies and
Cookeeyeh.

LUXOR This is our last night in Thebes. I have just paid my
Tuesday parting visit to Karnak and we have continued our
March 9, 1886 festivities, dining with Insinger Sunday, with Aly
Moorad yesterday and breakfasting with Guy Lus-
sac today. His boat is almost as long as ours but only half as wide; it
has a little bedroom for two, a boudoir six feet long and a saloon
eight; Maspero and I ﬁlled one side of the little table and they two
the other. Mme. is only nineteen, not old enough, M. Gay Lussac
said to me, to see the native girls dance. They came to Aly’s dinner
last evening only when they knew that there was to be no fantai-
seeyeh.

Over at the Ramesseum, Saturday, I succeeded for the ﬁrst time in
doing on a considerable scale, what I have been working towards for
a long time, the reconstruction of the destroyed parts of temples. In
the eight pillar hall next the rear, the ends only are standing; the side
walls are gone. But careful study of the ends and knowledge of other
temples, makes it certain that the side walls were each covered with
a grand ark of Ammon, which the four smaller arks on either side the
door of the east end are following. I feel quite happy over it and I
want to rebuild in the same way many such walls. The more one does
here, the more he can do; the better he can work. And so much re-
mains to be learned as to the plan of the decoration of a temple at
any one place and time and how it changed from nome to nome and
from reign to reign. Philo is still here and in no hurry to leave. Even
Hopkins is quite satisﬁed; it is so comfortable a place to lie around
and read novels. But the people at the hotel are thinning out as fast
as they can get places on the postal boat. But as the British ofﬁcers
have the preference, they do not all go just when they would like.

Last evening Senator Ferry talked a good deal to me in favor of
Blaine for next time;I discouraged him. The missionary’s wife from
Syria, Mrs. Marden who looked so ill when I ﬁrst saw her and who
came here with lungs seriously affected and a bad cough, now seems

375

