DECEMBER 1880 TO APRIL 1881]

Ahmed, looked over a pile of cofﬁn wood and at a bad mummy which
they said came out of this tomb and by this time Moosa had heard
of it and took me to his house to see a coffin cover, left over from a
tomb he opened two years ago. He wanted to take me up to see the
tomb, but I was tired enough to leave it till another day.

LUXOR I was very glad to get your two letters of February
Monday twenty-ﬁfth and March third this steamer. Dora’s
Marc}: [4, 1881 was very newsy and I like to see the honors to
Hugo. But it seems to me dangerous; a man can-
not live long after such an ovation. It is strange indeed to hear of
snow when the thermometer in my room stands steadily between 70°
and 75°. Of small plagues we have only ﬂies and with care need have
but few of these.

Brugsch noticed at Erment ﬁve fragments of a large tablet of dark
granite of the time of Amenophis II1 and had them put on a boat for
the Prince. He told me ofit that I might copy them, which I did Sat-
urday. Yesterday I found another fragment in the house—yard of a
dealer here, among his things thrown away. Odd enough it was to ﬁnd
a piece of this Erment stele here in Luxor.

The days go on and the ruins are so mighty that I seem to do al-
most nothing. But I do not work more than four hours a day out of
doors; I am not going to spoil myself in my first vist to Egypt.

A letter from M. Maspero to-day says he will probably start next
Saturday or Sunday to come up. I shall be glad enough to see
him.

Artist Dubois is back from Philae, is stopping here and working on
a study at the Ramesseum. He thinks Blashﬁeld2 ought to be here and
is astonished to ﬁnd the weather so comfortable, when he expected it
to be hot. The truth is we get our ideas mostly from English people
who have no idea of American hot weather, so they grumble over
what to us is delightful. Except two days of sandstorm every day

I. Tablet of Amenophis II now in Vienna and Cairo. See J. H. Breasted. “Ancient Records." vol. II, 5791-
798; E. von Bergman. “Ein Denkmal aus den Zeiten Amenophis II." in the ”Recueil de travaux relatifa
a la philologie et a l’archéologie égyptiennes et assyriennes." Paris. vol. IV. I 883. pp. 33—38; Ch. Kuentz.
“Dem: Stt'éles d'Amenophis 11." Le Caire. 1925. See also “Travels in the East," by the Crown Prince
Rudolph. London. 1884. pp. 132—134.

2. Edwin Howland Blashﬁeld. American artist (1848— ),son—in-law of Charles Edwin Wilbour. Later be-
came one of the leading mural painters of America.

57

