[CHAPTER FIVE

Wednesday Aboo Gamb brought the boat of Mahmood
7anuary 27, I886 Abd-er-rahman, whose nickname is Sagally,
early, and we crossed and went with Khaleefeh’s
bad donkey, ﬁrst to Mohammed ibn Khaleefeh’s (not Old Leather-
face’s) house, where I had seen some hair curled on rush sticks of
which I send you a sample. We have long found sculpture and paint—
ing of pipe-stem curls on goddesses and other women, but the actual
hair found has been braided in ﬁne braids. You can imagine the labor
of curling a head of hair like this. No mortal could have endured it;
it could have been done only on a wig. I got a little pint pot of
earthen to put my sticks of hair in, and tenderly covered them with a
large mashed sheet of silk paper. Of him (M. K.), I took also a piece
of cloth with the cartouche of a Ptolemy; it cannot be funerary be-
cause no Ptolemy was buried in these parts. Perhaps it was a royal
mark on some temple vestment. Of another I took the hind legs of a
bed and of others many little things ancient and otherwise. Then we
went to Drah Aboo’l Neggah and I ﬁnished my tomb survey of that
corner. Aboo Gamb showed me the hole from which the gold orna-
ments of Queen Aahotep, the pride of the Boolak Museum, were
taken, and he said that long and long afterwards the people searched
the débris taken out; it was full of beads and ornaments. And he
scratched it a little and in a few minutes gave me a bead.1 One tomb
down on the ﬂat I did not go into; its approach was a pit; I could get
in easily enough but I could not see how I was to get out without
stick or rope or ladder. Aboo Gamb climbed out easily, but these
fellows can walk up a well which is not more than six feet wide.

In the evening on my way to the steamer, Professor Sayce of Ox-
ford, who is up here in the old dahabeeyeh Urania with Mr. Myers,2
invited me with Maspero and Bouriant to dinner. We met Canon
Liddon, the great preacher, a very quiet old gentleman, and had a
pleasant time.

While in the Drah a boy came with a broken kohl vase of very
handsome stone, rather heavy. When I took the hair pot at night

 

I. H. E. Winlock, "The Tombs of the Kings of the Seventeenth Dynasty at Thebes" in “Journal of Egyp-
tian Archaeology." vol. X. 1924. pp. 251 et seq.. p. 254: “Admitting that a few beads may have been lost
carelessly. . "

2. A. H. Sayce. “Reminiscences.” London. 1923. pp. 237-240. Walter Myers, ibidem. pp. 211. Henry
Parry Liddon, English divine (1829—1890). ace Encyclopaedia Britannica.

356

