FEBRUARY 1884 TO MAY 1884]

tations of Arabic writing, which she bought ready made at the
Louvre. In Cairo she said, the Arabs surrounded her to read it; they
said it carried good luck, but she must be careful not to let it fall on
the ground. She did not know that it is a grave offence to sit on the
Holy Writ.

Tuesday George, the factotum of the Luxor Hotel, is digging
March 4, 1884 here near the foundations of the temple, which the
Cleopatra built to commemorate her Caesarion's

birth. He has private information that there is a bronze door and a
stairway leading to great treasure. Maspero has given him permis-
sion to dig on condition that the bronze door is to go to the Museum.
Baudry went over this morning: I shall go when the door is reached.

Afternoon After a visit from Mme. Bouillon we start for Luxor;

we print the views of the mummies of last Tuesday,
which I send you, we breakfast, ending with cucumbers from the
Bouillon garden, and we hear the shots which greet our second
arrival at Luxor. There is here an American dahabeeyeh, the French
Consul’s which came down this morning, and that of the Wekeel
from Keneh ...... The most humiliating thing for the Eng—
lish yet is the surrender of the garrison of Tokar to the Mahdi’s
general, as soon as they learned that they were to be “rescued” by
British troops.1 And so the great demonstration which was to show
the British power and to prostrate the rebels, will now conﬁne itself
to burying what the jackals have left of the slaughter, from which
the speed of Baker’s horse saved him.

Abd-el-Megeed has been in to say that he has found a mummy, a
black one, that is covered with bitumen, with a beard and he thinks
there is a papyrus in it. But he is at work and hoping to ﬁnd more.
Others have found three more and Todros a bed. A Mr. Benn who
was at Pomeroy’s dinner, has just bored me an hour—English, and a
Tory. We have ﬂowers from the Hotel garden and the Consul to din-
ner. Maspero is now arranging with him for the French House on the
temple. Tomorrow we are to dine with Shnoodeh, perhaps. Maspero
has accepted but he may decide that Mme. is not well enough, and
stay with her.

x. See Earl of Cromer. “Modern Egypt." London. 1908, vol. I. p. 411.

283

 

