[CHAPTER THREE

her nursing it. A little dried up old woman who called herself Sitt el
Amara took me about and cried my business and saw me safe to the
boat and is to look me up more things tomorrow. I noticed that the
children followed much more after they had thrown stones at them
to drive them away. The anteekeh here as at Elephantine seem en-
tirely in the hands of the women; the men don’t bother with it, ex—
cept sometimes to see if the money is good.

At eventide Maspero came back announcing the discovery of four
new tombs, one anonymous and the others those of May, Rames and
Apy.l Lepsius thought he had seen them all. Then after a little dinner
he went to bed used up, complaining of the back of his head. He has
become a heavy eater and a heavy man and for days together he has
staid on the boat and written from morning till night. In Paris his
day was broken by going out to breakfast and dinner and he walked
much, often six or eight miles a day. These congestions in the back of

the head bode no good.

RAMES OR RAMSES To—day Maspero didn’t go, but Charmes, Piehl
Monday and I accompanied Bouriant to see the new
April 2, I883 tombs and look for more. I made a little map of
them. Maspero and Bouriant wish to see in this

Rames (which they call Ramses—a pronunciation the Zeitschrift
ridicules), the same man whose grave in Thebes Villiers Stuart2 dis-
covered and Abd-er-Rasool re-discovered for me. But the Theban
Rames was a great Judge and governor of the Theban town and
province, while this man is only major-domo of King Amenophis III,
the Father of the Unitarian King. There is in each of the three graves
found yesterday, in the doorways, on the right a hymn to the Sun-
disk and on the left King, Queen and one or more daughters making
adoration or offering to the ﬁgure of the disk which hands down life.
In the grave of Apy,3 King and Queen are offering to the disk what I
have not seen elsewhere. The King upholds an image of himself and
the Queen adoring the Sun-Disk’s cartouches and the Queen upholds
an image of herself with the same headdress she wears, and she is

I. U. Bouriant. "Deux jours de fouilles 5 Tell El Amarna" in “Mémoires de la Mission archéologiquc fran-
caise au Caire." vol. I. fasc. I. Paris. 1884. pp. 1-22.

2. Villiers Stuart, "Egypt after the War." London. 1883. See U. Bouriant. “A Thebes" Ill. "be Tombeau
de Ramsés a Cheikh abd el Qournah” in "Recueil dc travaux." vol. VI. 1385. pp. 55-56.

3. N. de G. Davies. "The Rock Tombs of El Amarna." vol. IV. London. 1906. pl. XLIV.

246

