DECEMBER 1880 TO APRIL 1881]

I am glad to hear of your teacher; I hope she is a good one. You
have not said a word yet whether any or all of you would like to come
here with me next winter ......

LUXOR Shall I tell you of my morning in Goornah? I wanted

W ednesday to ﬁnd the tomb from which the red leather sus-
March 9, I881 penders came. So I crossed the river in a boat and
then, on donkey, the Island, fording the slender

thread of the west branch to the telegraph ofﬁcewhere I asked M.
Maspero to send me a formal permit to dig. This because yesterday I
learned that somebody had found a rich tomb and wanted a permit
under which to take out the things. Then back of the Colossi to the
house of old Khalifeh who had told me he had a mummy to show me.
Khalifeh was in Luxor, so across to the South to Mohammed who is
to be found in the house of Abd-er-Rasool. On the way I met Mo-
hammed Abu Moosa whom I mistook for the other Mohammed. At
ﬁrst he said he didn’t know anything about that tomb. In my best
Arabic I insisted that those suspenders came from a mummy, that the
mummy came from a tomb and that tomb I must see. After a sufﬁ-
cient repetition of these ideas he sent for Ahmed Abu Ali who arose
out of the ground; they talked a little and said we would go. We went
a few steps north of the house of the Sheik-el—Beled Lazim and came
to a crater, in the north side of which are three holes squared at the
top; in the south side a device a foot high through which one crawled,
then I, then the other; we were in the Tomb of His Majesty’s Book-
writer Thé‘z' and his wife, the House-mistress and Pallacide of Amon-
Ra, Aa.‘ To the left hand an adoration of Amenophis I and Aahmes
Nefert—Ari. Right hand a hole no words. We pass South between holy
writ, ﬁnd in the right wall Thdi’s statue and turn West into a long room
with many ﬁnely colored scenes and hieroglyphs. A hole through the
thin wall of rock of the north side shows mummy rooms unsculptured.
On this north wall we ﬁnd prayers and a picture of Adjutant Kim—em-
thi-ro of the Palace of Meneptah and his mother the Pallacide of
Amon Ta Maow (The Cat). This began to be interesting. Old Mother
Cat’s stele has been sold by Mustapha to General somebody and he

 

I. Tal: Tomb no. 23. Porter-Moss. “Topographical Bibliography." Vol. I. p. 63. The tomb was visited by
Lepsiua in the forties of the 19th century; discovered again by Wilbour in 1881; excavated by Sir R.
Mond in the ﬁrst years of the 20th century: a very typical case of the work of excavations at Thebes.

55

