[CHAPTER TWO

Tuesday We came up to Assuan. I went over to Elephan-
yanuary 10, 1882 tine, was assailed by a crowd of women and
children and soon loaded Said with inscribed
potsherds. Quite free out of doors, the women were in hysterics when
I crossed their thresholds; indeed it seems contrary to Elephantine
etiquette to call on the ladies when their lord is away. One offered to
show me where they dug fragments of papyrus out of the ground; she
said there had been some there in a little room. I went and in a little
while she and others picked out from the rubbish some small frag—
ments, scarce large enough to tell their language. They promise to
have a lot for aaade aookra “day after tomorrow.”

W ednerday We made an extra effort and the party was off
yanuary 11, 1882 for Philae at eight. My ‘lzegeen’, one used by the
post, between Assuan and Korosko, did not ap-

pear till eight-forty-ﬁve. My cameleer said he had been many times
with it in three days. The huge gaunt beast had a little ring in its nose
with an extra cord from it, as a sort of safety bit, besides the usual
rope about the neck. The saddle was a simple frame covered with the
skin of a black sheep without stuﬂing, very light and not too hard,
better ﬁtted for the Arab accustomed to squatting than for us. I
gradually came to be at home in it, though it leaned a little to the
left, and learned how to hurry the beast. Then the cameleer had to
run. The way to Philae is mostly a smooth sandy valley between low
rocky ranges and the ‘lzegeen’ skated over it in a style easier for it
than for me. Still I have been on a horse which had a worse trot. The
party was just pushing off in a boat at the Shellal village when I
joined it and we went down to the Bab-el-Kebeer as last year. This
time there was much more water than before and it was not more pic-
turesque. The character of the landscape here is rather the effect of
the water on the rocks than the water itself. The more rock you see,
the more characteristic; the more unlike anything else. The Sultana .
and [air were half way up the rapids.

An English railway engineer, whom I saw here last year, told me
yesterday that with a good wind and as much water as there now is,
any dahabeyeeh could sail up by the west route which avoids these
rapids. He had done it repeatedly and they took up the government

112

