[CHAPTER ONE

hand of its proud proprietor; multiform things on turbaned heads, or
camels’ backs—anywhere. Then we stopped at the Nile at dusk and
did not get much dinner at the Italian restaurant and then after a
little we had a hot box. Such a time as they made over it. After two
stations of hot box it got too hot for us, and we—an Egyptian, a
Frenchman, Elsen and I—got out and they put us in the next car. We
had hardly arranged ourselves when we were horriﬁed to ﬁnd that it
was a “dames seules.” Here we were where we could see from our end
compartment across the vacant middle compartment into the other
end which contained three Circassian ladies. My ﬁrst impulse was to
go back, but I was afraid of the hot box; so was Elsen, so was the
Frenchman; the car might catch ﬁre, so we mustered up courage and
the train started; then it was too late. The partitions between the
compartments were just high enough to look over and to encourage
my companions. I sat facing the enemy. Their windows plagued
them; they had to get up and ﬁx them. \Vhen they subsided they were
below the partition, but they generally had to put up a white plump
hand on the back of the seat, or to arrange their back head gear with
two such hands. Then they would chatter awhile and very pleasant
voices they had; the Frenchman, who knew Arabic, said it was
Turkish they spoke, but he knew not what they said in such sweet
tones. Then they would sing a little and then the window would need
attention again, ﬁrst on one side and then on the other of the car. And
so da capo. At the stations they were more curious about the turbans
and fezes on the platform than about us. \Ve felt slighted but then
there was the pleasant prospect that an infuriated population would
resent our intrusion on the privacy of their women. All this kept us
awake through the evening and so without any ﬁrst sight of the pyra-
mids, we arrived at Cairo and I got into Shepheard’s omnibus and
gave my baggage receipt to the conductor as I would have done in

Italy.

That was just a week ago and since then I have mostly vegetated.
It is enough to breathe the air here and open one’s eyes and see the
human toll ﬂow by. Young Dauprat, son of the Vice—Governor of the
Suez Canal, a fellow passenger, sits next me at table; lVIr. & Mrs.
Young, pleasant San Francisco people, with whom I drove out Sun—
day to see the Shubra Road and Palace and to meet the Khedive and

8

