DECEMBER 1882 TO APRIL 1883]

Monday I went to the Pyramid of Noferkara Pepi and made
April 9, 1883 a plan of it with sections while Maspero copied some
lines overlooked before. Then we went to Old Pepi’s
Pyramid and there, trying to ﬁnish copying the high text I began on
the up voyage I got more sand in my eyes, for it is broken through
at the top and the wind blows ﬁne drifts down through the rifts. So
I went down to Sakkara and visited Bayoomi and Mustapha and
Fodi and spent a few francs for anteekeh.

Tuesday At noon I came in to Cairo and am at Shepheard’s.
April 10, 1883 Calling at the Consulate and on Judge Batcheller he
made me come to dinner and go with them to the
opera—bouffe. I had not seen Mary Albert before but she looked
pretty and ingénue in the your et Nail, a very broad piece which
Little Katy, now taller than her mother, seemed rather bored at. In-
deed they had seen it twice before, one of the inconveniences of being
a subscriber. I found Mr. Stimson’s card on my table.

Wednesday The luxury of a good wide soft bed after three
April 11, I883 months of berth was very great. I had thought I
might go back to-day but the bed was controlling.
Mr. Stimson took me around for dragoman and in the afternoon with
Comaros we went to see Cherif Pasha the Prime Minister from
whom Stimson has received the promise of ﬁve hundred pounds to
buy Egyptian articles for the Exhibition and two hundred pounds
more for expenses and a lot of old arms (three or four tons) to orna-
ment the walls of the Egyptian department with.

Thursday I went with Stimson to see about casts of antiqui-
A’pril 12, I883 ties and breakfasted with Garwood, and went with
Stimson again. There is a Khamseen and Garwood
says it will be worse tomorrow. Emile Brugsch has thought to get the
spending of the Egyptian money into his hands, but that was
blocked yesterday and to-day. Allemand showed me yesterday the
things he has found at Tell Defenneh;l some small terra cotta heads
are almost as ﬁne Greek art as the Tanagra statues. He is going again
tomorrow.

 

I. Tell Defenneh in the Delta. see Murray. ”Egypt.” 1881. p. 328.

253

