OCTOBER 1881 T0 APRIL 1882]

ity of the Moslem crowd which lined the streets. He lives in Venice,
has lived twelve years in Rome and knows and sympathizes with
Charley Coleman ......

I have received another installment of Brugsch’s Supplement to
his Dictionary; you sent me a postal card about it.

Saturday Yesterday afternoon Spitta took the Hagens and me don-

key—riding through Boulak and along dikes down the
Nile side of the Shoobra Road and back the Railway side; a
pleasant way through paths unknown to all foreigners save Spitta. In
the evening Dr. Dubois came over to say good-bye; he is off for Japan
to-day. He wished to be remembered to you. Judge Hagens said I
must put their remembrance to you into every letter. I didn’t go to
Mrs. Masterman’s dance last evening because I was too old and had
no black coat.

Monday Saturday I studied and wrote and went to the Judge’s to

breakfast. The Wacyfs and Judge Herbout and wife
(French) and the Secretary of the German Consulate were there. In
the afternoon I had an interesting call upon Judge Batcheller. He too
has remarked the similarity in fervor and tones between the Der—
vishes and the Methodists’ camp meetings. His wife and Little Katy
did not appear.

Sunday I worked in the Museum on the new mummies. In the
evening went to the Judge’s again to read a story with Spitta and
IVIadame. She told me, to my horror, that I ought to have asked to be
presented to Mme. Batcheller. Shall I ever get this Batcheller busi-
ness straight? Mr. Cramer, the pleasant Swiss man was over to see
me; he expects to be in his house in a month or six weeks; the hard-
ware of the house is at Alexandria.

This morning I copied many things of Dr. Grant’sl collection. His
wife is a pleasant American woman, who is trying to keep her mind
clear of the mania for antiquities, so that there may be one good head
in the family. Rhode Island Chapin set out this afternoon in the Ibis
for the Second Cataract. We shall hardly overtake them, but I hope

 

1. There is an autographed pamphlet by Grant-bear with the title: "Lecture delivered in his Museum,
Cairo. on the robbing and burning of his museum in August. 1888."

85

