NOVEMBER 1888 TO JULY 1889]

yanuary 30, 1889 While the men were tracking to Erment, I

walked on ahead and saw M. & Mme. Merchant
for a couple of hours. He lent me an old saw, which had been used to
saw stone when the factory was built, and sold me two sacs, four
hundred and ﬁfty pounds, of sugar, mostly for Aboo Shanab. He
didn't know just what the price would be, so I could not pay him.
The oranges here are the best we get, so I laid in a store. A lamb
bought in Luxor was tied last night with too long a rope on the bow,
as the hen boat was not yet emptied of the men’s bread, they having
returned late. The poor fellow got overboard while the men were
asleep and was pulled out dead in the morning. Moorgaan replaced
him with one which could not jump overboard. Mme. Lefevre in the
Sultana left Luxor twenty-four hours and Erment three hours before
us. We went on to Esneh and tied up.

7anuary 31, 1889 A very good wind took us to Edfoo by half past

one. There we found the Sultana under a new
Greek rum-shop, provided with all the ﬂuvial amenities, including
four dancing girls. Hussein, who two years ago sold me the Roman
glass and the elephant-hunt inscription, and who last year was
raided by Grébaut, keeps antiquities there under the protection of
the blue and white ﬂag and he had more glass to show me. I oHered
to take it as I had the other, which would make it about two dollars
and ﬁfty cents; he said that he was stupid then and he wanted twenty-
ﬁve dollars for this. I think him more stupid now. I rode to the post
in the worst dust-storm I have seen this year, and called on the old
man of the temple whose health seems much better than last year.
Mme. Lefevre says her Rais dare not sail, the wind is so strong. I
invited her and Yoonas to follow us, and after twenty minutes they
did. we came on to Ramadi, where we learned that her cook, furi—
ously drunk and demanding to stay longer, had tried to butcher a
waiter, and had been bound, to be set ashore here.

February 1, 1889 Since Luxor we have had a tricolor cat on board,

for the beneﬁt of a rat too large and too wise to
go into our trap. At dusk the other night, she set up a howl on the
back stoop. I went out and followed her up stairs where they told me

511

