[CHAPTEREIGHT

- registry. Insinger tells me that Paul Lucas‘, in his Voyage en Orient,
which I brought and he is reading, says that it was accounted a
pious work to buy women and devote them to public use.

I went to see Hanna Kerass and bought a large fragment of a once
ﬁne granite tablet of a prophet of Anhoor, probably from his temple
at Mesheykh. Frenay took the noon meal with me and departed on
his white donkey for Ekhmeem. We came on and towards night I
searched the tombs opposite and below Geergeh in vain, except that
at sunset I heard where one was which had inscriptions.2

Deceméer 9, 1888 I went to it, mapped and copied it almost in full.

It is very large and much broken, was made for a
man who has titles of the Pyramid Age, who was “Architect of all
the works ordered to be done in the Eighth Nome” and who married
a King’s cousin, a prophetess of Hathor. His name was Themary.
Blank space on it was ﬁlled by other men, one who was something
in the temple of Anhoor (at Mesheykh near by whence came my
little granite Min-mes), one named Desher, or Rufus, who, sitting in
an easy chair, enjoys the exertion of his men netting birds, and
others more.

We came on, passed the Withers who had called on me at Ekh-
meem, at Belianeh, and tied up at Hamran.

Deceméer 10, 1888 We reached How before noon. There I said

good—bye to Insinger who sails straight on to
Luxor where he has a house to build. I went ﬁrst to see Ahmed the
Magnoon (crazy) as I called him last year because he would not sell
me the only stele I have ever seen from this, the Seventh Nome, of a
prophet of Hathor Noferhotep, its Hathor. He would now sell it for
a guinea or let me copy it for half a dollar. I took him along to show
me where he found it, on my way to see Mahmood Le Deed’s dig-
gings. Mahmood had ﬁnished work and gone to Kom el Mahras,

near Semaina“, had found nothing of importance but three stones.

1. Paul Lucas. French traveller (1664-1737)—see J. M. Carré. “Voyageurs et écrivaina francais en Egypte.”
Cairo. 1932. Vol. I. pp. 44-47.

2. W. Wreszinski. “Bericht ﬁber die photographische Expedition." Halle. 1927, p. 64 and pl. XXIII—XXIV .

3. U. Bouriant. loc. cit. IV Hou. ibidem, pp. I44.|describing the pillage of Hon and Semalnah: for Semaineh.
see W. M. Flinders Petrie, “Dioepolis parva." The cemeteries of Abadiyeh and Hu. London. 190:. pl. I.
and p. 32: “utterly plundered of late years by dealers, being the source of all the objects described as
from Semaineh."

490

