[CHAPTER TWO

been well. He came in, said he had not been out of the house for
two days, breathed short, was going to dine at the Hotel du Nil. The
Judge thinks him a little hypochondriac. It was a hard day to live
through.

Monday Mrs. Moulton left this morning for Alexandria, to go
Apr-£110, 1882 on Friday to Beyroot with visions of Damascus,
Balbek, Constantinople, Danube and generally. She
has taken ten lessons in Arabic of Socrates Spiro, who gave forty to
Dubois, and when she is perfect in that she is going to take up mod-
ern Greek. And she can’t get up a ﬂight of stairs without stopping
to rest. To-day is a great festival, Easter Monday, and a moslem
also, and the wretched Greeks make a dilute fourth of July of it with-
out crackers but with gun and pistol shots. Even the Post Ofﬁce is
shut. I hope this will not lose tomorrow’s boat. It is very hot, but I
went to see the Wiedemanns. They are all very well but a letter from
Papa W. says the cholera has appeared at Varna. So all the plans are
upset ...... Alfred seems very well and Mme. Wiedemann
is sure she will not need to come with him next year but may stay
and dance Margaret in Leipzig. F arman promised to get me, if possi—
ble, a room on next week’s French boat. I must go to the Museum
and see if his letter has come.

BOOLAK I loafed around and sent Kamoory his spectacles
Tuesday and went up into the Bazaar, where Mrs. Patterson
dpril II, 1882 took me in to Abdallah’s and there brought forty-
ﬁve pounds worth of his prettiest old carpets. She
wants to be a little aesthetic. Then I looked at the instantaneous
photographs Sebah has made since we have been gone and then
brought my bag down to the Museum and the boat. M. Rhoné had
been seized with a chill and fever and the doctor came and gave him
quinine; he thought he got it in the new Museum which isn’t dry.
The boxes containing the monument of Mariette have come.
..... Maspero came back radiant; he had had three-quarter
hour’s talk with the Khedive who seemed much interested in the
Museum and the diggings.

168

