OCTOBER 1881 TO APRIL 1882]

Bourreaa is now reading that other moral tale Les Million: Honteax
and Mrs. P ..... has actually taken a walk, and Golden-Hair is writing
opposite me, a letter in a high hand to her mother, her second letter
to-day, and we have seen the snows which descend from Etna and
the wonderfully carven contours of the Sicilian land along the
straights and the continuous city on their either side and we have
avoided the sands of Scylla turning right—toward Charybdis (it
would be long out Of our way to run into it); and Stromboli has
turned out to be a big steamer and Sicily recedes and the Leparis
are soft in the cloudy afternoon.

NAPLES Morning came and The Bay with smoking Vesuvius
Saturday and Mr. Wesendonck and his folks and Mr. 8: Mrs.
A’pril 22, 1882 Ames-Lyde of the Estelle, came on board to go to
Marseilles and the sea was so still I almost wished I

was coming straight on, and not stopping homeless in this great city.
But a minute examination in the dirty Custom House, where they
said I must pay on,some silver, and I didn’t, unless they stole some-
thing, and a beef-steak at the new Hotel of Vesuvius, and seeing the
papers here at Turner’s and a head that does not swim too badly
have reconciled me to saying good-bye this morning and I will go to
the Museum and to Rome tO—night, happy to know that Grant
hasn’t failed1 and the Czarina has a Father’s house to go to away
from dynamite, and that army rule in Egypt is fast nearing its end.

FLORENCE A week on land and I have almost forgotten the

April 29, 1882 swing of the Pélase.

Saturday, 22nd, I went through the Museum at
Naples and came to Rome.

Sunday, to the Capitol Museum where I found some Egyptian
things discovered in Palestrina, and a walk in the Borghese Villa
grounds.

Monday, Vatican Museum and Charley Coleman’s studio. He is
going tO Capri for the summer and wants to go to Egypt next winter.
Tuesday, from Etta’s new and grand place to her mother’s.

 

I. Probably an allusion to the Bank Grant and Ward.

175

ll J l l \El’ I _.' It ‘ 5'. ll II Ii 44,3. l

