NOVEMBER 1885 TO MAY 1886]

southern tombs I copied these three signs over a niche. They are not
so very uncommon in Egypt and they tell how the sign of Life was
adopted by the Christians.
You see it is placed between
two monograms of Christ
over the niche in which prob—
ably they placed the wine of
his blood.

Which reminds me how the red-haired Sun of God, after his set-
ting two evenings ago, changed all the Nile into rosy wine.

   

SIOOT We came aground and aﬂoat last night to Sioot

Sunday soon after midnight, in hot pursuit of Barios, the

yanuary 17, 1886 French Secretary General of Public Works, who

is to do something at Keneh about the Temple at

Luxor. He left yesterday morning and as soon as we get coal enough

on board, we shall go for him. Toda came up last night by rail and we
are glad to have him again.

Toda has to go back again at once, but hopes to join us in Luxor.

Tuesday To-day is the ﬁrst rainy day I have ever seen in
j‘anuary 19, 1886 the Thebai'd. The sky is quite overcast and a few
drops fall from time to time. Verily “these Eng-

lish,” “ces Anglais” as I oftener hear it, “questi Inglesi” as I heard it
on the Minerva; not content with bringing War and Pestilence and
Famine upon poor Egypt, have actually ruined her climate, for this
day at least. But there is some hope for her. After the last great “vic-
tory” reinforcements were sent up, and Gen. Stephensonl, instead of
going on toward Dongola in pursuit of the “Rebels” has met us on
his way to Cairo. The British troops, it is said, will hold Assuan in
force with a considerable outpost at Korosko, just enough to tease
the Blacks into an advance, so diﬂicult that they would hardly make
it without continuous provocation. The Turkish Commissioner, who
has come here to make Egypt again an integral part of Turkey if he
can, declares that only Moslem troops can pacify the Soodan and he

I. Sir Frederick Stephenson. commanding the British army of occupation. see Earl of Cromer. "Modern
Egypt." London. 1908. vol. I. p. 376.

347

