[CHAPTER FOUR

employed such heretic means as they. The chief picture, The Stoning,
was covered for the occasion by a great black banner whereon
was a white cross tipped with four lotuses. I forgave them the
cross for their deference to my Egyptians. It was interesting to
see a solitary woman worshipping in the chapel of Prince Eu-
gene of Savoy, the great Austrian ﬁghter of other times. His regiment
had lately hung grand yellow and black ribands and there was
much old inscription. Two days I have been to the Belvedere,
which he built and lived in, one to see the Egyptian and Ambras
collection, this last the hugest mass of bric-a-brac I have yet seen.1 I
tried to copy the proﬁle of Rudolph of Hapsburg;

but I cannot do him justice surely. There is no upper

lip, the under is immense and the jaw runs away with

the face. It looks like the prow of an iron clad ram. The a
other day I didn’t see the whole of the picture gallery,

which is delightful; I put it ahead of the Louvre for

Italian pictures and far away for Dutch. It is almost

as good as Venice for Venetians, ever so many Titians and it rains
Rembrandts and Holbeins and Rubens. And, strange to say, there
are three or four good Rubens.

To-day I saw von Bergmannﬁ the Viennese Egyptologist, and he
will show me the Maximilian Egyptian collection3 which has been
brought up from Miramar and which is not yet open to the public. I
did not know this but guessed it and so did not stop at Trieste to go
to Miramar.

This city is stately. I know none where you may stand and see at
once so many and so ﬁne buildings. Not in Paris nor in London. In
the new apartment buildings it is architecturally superior to Paris. It
is true that they use much stucco, but it sticks. Perhaps the new
public buildings in Berlin will compare with these; I have not seen
them. And I am an unwilling witness. For it is against the American
idea that these eﬁete empires should build so. Perhaps our idea is
wrong and despotism is necessary for architecture. Surely no people
would ever vote to build a pyramid.

I. See E. Ritter von Bergmann. “Uebersicht der Sammlung Aegyptischer Alterthtimer des Allcrhochsten
Kaiserhauscs." (In unteren K. K. Bclvedere). 6th cdit., Vienna. 1886.

2. Ernst Rittcr von Bergmann. Austrian Egyptologist (1844—1892). see "Zeitschrift {Ur agyptische Sprache."
vol. XXX. 1802. p. 126.

3. S. Reinisch. "Die aegyptischen Denkmtiler in Miramar." Vienna. 1865.

324

