[CHAPTERBIGHT

hired ten acres of Abd el Megeed on the island for a garden and
Rostovitch is to put rival steamers on next winter. Pagnon up too, to
look after his hotel, says he will have ﬁfteen more rooms next year.

March 1, 1889 Hot and they say my rose thorn has developed ring—

worm; it has been treated with vaseline, carbol—
glycerine, poultices and now painted with iodine. This with the dry—
ness of the month which seems to return with the dryness of the air,
rather withdraws me from active service. Mr. Henry M. Sanders,
wife and mother-in-law Butler, called, Mrs. Milbank’s friends; they
do not appreciate Egypt as she does.

Marc}: 2, I889 Dined with the Judge at the Hotel. Lottie and Dora

lunched at Aly Moorad’s with Mrs. Sanders and
Mrs. Butler. Mohammed Mohassib brought for me to see an alabaster
cup with old Pepi’s names and banner-name, like one in New York‘,
I think. And with some hot drinks which Lottie made us, her birth-
day was ended.

LUXOR We went with Mohammed Mohassib to the tomb of
March 3, I889 Shaykh Aboo ’l Haggag, to see it and especially the
sixty-six pounds toée, or cover, which he gave the
Saint last summer, loud in color and with much gold Koran embroid-
ered thereupon. The heat rose to 88° and we went into the middle of
the river, where we found immediate relief and that the distance did
not prevent visitors to tea. In the evening we had a little Venice be-
fore us.

March 4, I889 Lottie mended ﬂags in the morning and at noon

without regard to the difference in time, we put out
all our ﬂags in a good north wind which showed every star and stripe
in them. We visited Abdul Megeed’s collection and I found a Ramses
IV scarab. Going through the Temple at Luxor two or three days
ago Grébaut showed me two pieces of architrave in granite with the
cartouches of Sebekhotep II of the Thirteenth Dynastyi’, the rem-

1. In the Abbott Collection. see ”Catalogue of the Egyptian Antiquities of the New York Historian So-
ciety." New York. 1915, p. 44.
2. R. W'eil], “La Fin du Moyen Empire Egyptien." Vol. I. Paris. 1918, p. 418.

522

