OCTOBER 1881 TO APRIL 1882]

have been so battered as to be scarcely distinguishable, but on the
whole it is in so good a state of preservation that M. Maspero thinks
it will be worth copying entire for publication next year. It belongs to
the Noble Governor, Keeper of the Seal, Privy Councillor, Knower of
the Secrets of Heaven, Earth and the Underworld, and many other
things besides, but whose principal function seems to be Prophet of
Anhoor. His name is Anhoor-born and his wife who has a prominent
place in the scenes is Fair-face. We copied for an hour and then came
back bringing two stones from the village and some small plunder.
Then we started on our downward way stopping to see the friendly
Frenchman who cares for the ﬂour mills in the pretty town of Ekh-
meem. We circulated in the Bazaar and I saw a great granite stone
beside the Mosque of Emir Hassan which had many feet engraved
on it, but of legible hieroglyphics only this, twice repeated: “Unnefer
maxru, ‘The Good-Being’ (Osiris’ royal name) Triumphant.” Then
we came on and toward night stopped on a sand bank where there
was only three to three and one-half feet of water. The Captain tried
to warp the boat and ﬁnally with the aid of a lot of men from the
next village she was shifted a rod to the right where there was water.
The Nile is wonderfully low, much lower than a month later last
year.

Saturday I was waked by the rubbing of the boat against
March 25, 1882 the sand. At intervals it has rubbed ever since, but
we may spend half the day on sand banks and yet
get to Sioot, our day’s destination, by night. Toward noon as we
passed Gebel Sheikh Hareedeh,I the crew threw over two dollars
wrapped in a bundle of rushes to ﬂoat them, for a boat which was
waiting on behalf of the Sheikh. This was to give us insurance
against sandbars but it hasn’t worked yet. M. Maspero proposed to
give the money but was refused; Giaour’s money is not good for the
defunct Sheikh. However the quiet which the sand gives enables me
to copy some hieroglyphics better than if we were moving.

After the noon breakfast the two dollars began to work and they
worked very well till we came to within an hour of Sioot. They gave

1. Gebel Sheikh Hareedeh. name given to the mountain (Gebel) from the famous tomb of a Moslem saint
(Sheikh) Hareedeh. See E. Jomard. “Notice sur les antiquités que l’on trouve a Cheykh el-Harydy." in
“Description de l’Egypte," Paris. 1831, pp. 67—74. See for another Sheikh possessing great powers in
helping navigation. Baedeker. “Egypt," 1929. p. 239.

155

