NOVEMBER 1885 TO MAY 1886]

for three weeks. We left Alexandria at ten; we land at eleven and we
lost three hours by Sitia. It is a good way to come. On the way up
the “Lion-Road” the Hotel man tells me the names of things in
Italian, more spoken here than other foreign tongues. I cannot have
a north room looking on the square before the ungainly cube they call
the Palace. Those rooms are full. But up two ﬂights on the west side,
they show me a small room wonderfully clean with a balcony on
Philhellene Street. This balcony looks up the Acropolis to the east
end of the Parthenon. They will give me a front room to-morrow if
this will do till then; I think it will, and longer. In the afternoon I
walk down the Way of Hermes, head swimming but little, and look
at the backs of the books in the bookstores, two German and several
Greek. It is hard to make much progress, for I have to read the signs
and stare at the costumes and faces. After dinner, a good one, in the
reading room, two Greeks bait a long—nosed, thin-skinned Briton,
who brags that he thinks in (old) Greek, and seems surprised that all
others bow not down before his superior nation, himself included.
They talk fair English, one is in the Chamber, and when they need

a word, I lend them a sharp one.

Saturday I make out from the Greek telegrams, with a little
ﬂpri110,1886 help from one of my last night’s entertainers, the
scheme by which Gladstone gives Parnell Ireland,

keeping the larger Island for himself. In the morning I loaf down by
the Palace Garden to the stray columns of Olympian Zeus; they call
him Zef’s here; I may as well call him Ammon. Fine columns they
are, and eighth of what there were; one just fallen shows how their
sections were locked together. Below southward I look for Callirrhoe,
the famed fountain which ﬂowed out from under the temple, down
by the Ilissos; it is fast disappearing beneath the rubbish dumped to
raise the ground; perhaps it was never more than the sacred drain.
Then through the Arch of Hadrian which modestly says in crumbling
letters that it parts the Athens of Theseus from his Athens. His
Athens is gone; I go into the elder. Low houses creep up the slopes of
the Acropolis; one story mostly, so that from the house—tops women
may chat with their neighbors on near—house tops or in the streets. A
pedlar is showing his wagon load to some. I mix in and ask prices

389

