[CHAPTERSEVEN

for three hundred pounds and four hundred twenty-ﬁve pounds, the
Bertie and the Ida. The Zingara, hardly more than ﬁrewood, brought
a hundred sixty pounds and an iron-boat which needs renewing iron
and all, the Grzﬁn, three hundred eighty pounds. Insinger thinks we
may be ready to start in seven days more; I guess ten. But you must
be in Egypt so as to come up to Sioot the ﬁfteenth if I telegraph you
we are there.

I met Abd-el-Noor to-day very jolly in spite of the ugly stories
about him, which Mr. Cardwell gives faith to, and reduced from two
hundred eighty pounds to two hundred pounds by taking only one
meal a day. Tell that to Mrs. Bergholz. We have lost Layzy, our
washerman, gone to the Berkeley Barclay boat, which has now its
twelve men.

The hotel is ﬁlling up, is about three-quarters full. PrOfessor Toy
reports that he is gettingon well with his two Shaykhs, sacred and
secular. Dr. Lansing is young again in appearance. I see Derwish
every day, unemployed as yet. Tanyos is down, they say, in a little
freight boat with three sailors. My men think the new rais Mo-
hammed skater (smart), but fear he will not get sailors strong
enough for the big boat. I suspect that they prefer Egyptians to
Nubians. Aly is at work and his successor is not quite chosen.

Grébaut’s steamer was taken away in the summer and the boiler
and engine taken out to put in new. Then they reported that the
hull was not worth it and so she stands. Perhaps somebody wants to
buy her.

SHEPHEARD’S Yesterday I called on Bouriant who had a rough
Monday passage over in the Saeed from Marseilles. His
November 28, 1887 wife is a woman of engaging manners with a
pleasant, ﬂowery face. Then I walked on to

the Museum where Grébaut showed me a gold ﬁnd from the F ayoom,
which he had not examined before. There are many interesting
things but the ﬁnest are the microscopic ﬁligree ornaments and two
statuettes, an inch long, ofPtah and Sebek‘. These last bear magnify-

I. Extrait de l'invcntaire du Muséc de Boulaq comprenant Ies objcts entrés dans les collections du I"
janvicr au 31 dC-ccmbre 1897" in "Bulletin dc I'lnstitut Egyptien." vol. VIII, 1887, p. XLIII. no. 28129—
28130; E. Vernier, “Bijoux et Orfévreries—(Catalogue général du Musée du Caire).” vol. I. Cairo.
1927. pl. XCI et pp. 398. no. 53203 and 400, no. 53207, where the date is wrong.

438

