[CHAPTERSEVEN

Sea Navigation in old times, mainly, I suppose about Queen Ma-
kara’s boats which we see at Deir el Bahari.

SHEPHEARD’S . . . . . We are getting on very nicely with

November 19, 1887 our work and I hope that the alterations I am

making will make us all more comfortable. I

have a note from Carleton, who expects to be here next Thursday.

The Seven Hat/20m is to be launched Monday. I hope you had a good
time in Kingston.

SHEPHEARD’S Since Tuesday we have made much progress.
Saturday The planks are all on; the Caulkers, thirty of
Noveméer 19, I887 them, ﬁnish to-day and the bottom daubed with
pitch and painted red, we are promised to
launch tomorrow. Then the seams opened in the house are to settle
and be puttied up and we are to have two coats of zinc paint all over
inside. Victor’s room, the stairway and the clothes-room are to be
made into one large room, a new stairway being made outside, like
Aboo Shanab’sl with a rear landing like his, a high-toned nautical way
of getting into the boat. Aly has taken the clothes to be washed and
will have the Jew do the silver, perhaps no better than it was done
before. Luigi here tells me he sends his to France. I have so many
ideas about putting up the curtains that I have not determined yet.
Aly gets six pounds elsewhere. Abderrahman goes in the Barclay boat
and Mustafa has a place in a store, being counted too big to go aloft.
I have secured Nefady, Layzy and Khaleel, and Oorooshwan prom-
ised me to come to-day. Our rais is named Mohammed Beshnik
and seems a quiet efﬁcient man, though he is now naturally subordi-
nated by his elder cousin, Abu Shanab’s rais Mohammed. He has
secured a pilot named Abdu2 and two other men whose names we
shall know in good time.

Dean Butcher and Judge Cookson left their cards on me and in
return Professor Toy and I burst in upon them one evening at the
Church House in the midst of a charming Symposium with another
man, all three in dress; and three elegant, elongated, half reclining,

I. Abou Shanab. Arabic nickname of Insinger: The Father of the Moustaches.
2. Abdu is quoted in connection with an amusing story in A. H. Sayce "Reminiscences." London. 1923.
pp. 268-269.

434

