DECEMBER 1880 TO APRIL 1881]

die or resign, demanded and insisted that the place of a Frenchman

be ﬁlled by a Frenchman.

I found also a letter from M. Maspero, who modestly says: “on
m’a nommé successeur de Mariette un peu contre ma volonté et je
me suis vu contraint d’accepter des fonctions pour lesquelles je ne me
sens fait que médiocrement.”

He authorized me to make excavations, asks me to examine Luxor
for him and generally to note for him anything I think useful for the
preservation of the monuments, repeats the invitation to come to his
house on my return; he does not know whether it will be at the Mu-
seum or at the School and wants to talk over with me what is to be
done.

I have written to him recommending a wall around Karnak and a
guardian and the clearing of the Temple of Luxor,l which removes the
British and the French Consuls, a mosque and a sheik’s tomb and a
lot of fellah houses and rubbish—enough for one letter.

W’ithin three weeks a tomb has been opened from which many
beautiful things have been taken—the Greek’s papyrus is one. I have
seen amulets of exquisite workmanship, which cannot be bought for
less than four or ﬁve dollars apiece here. Mustapha Aga has a statue
of Osiris which I am invited to see to-day. But the twelve mummy
cases found in the tomb, which must have been equally ﬁne, are all
broken up and destroyed with the inscriptions, more or less precious,
which they bore. I am told that the Government began by paying the
discoverers and taking the discovery, then on a signal 1nstance, they
took the discovery and did not pay the £50 promised, since which
time the fellahs break the cases and carry them away to get the port-
able treasures they contain. They dare not leave them for fear other

fellahs will ﬁnd them and break them up.

LUXOR Our postal boats are very much mixed in time
Feizruary 25, 1881 by the sand banks; but still they run. By the last
I have yours of February fourth and seventh

and the only ﬂmerican Register I have yet received, January twenty-

1. Temple of Luxor. See W. de “7. Abney. “Thebes and its ﬁve greater Temples.” London. 1876, pp. 51—
58, "one cannot but feel ashamed at the neglected state into which this glorious pile of buildings has been
allowed to degenerate . . . surely the Khedive might. without much injury to the inhabitants, de-
molish the semi- -barbarous dwellings which cling to it. . . .

49

