NOVEMBER 1887 TO MAY 1888]

NEARING It is now seventy-ﬁve days since I wrote in this jour-
BEDRESHEYN nal. Lottie has written all the news; why should I
ﬂpril 5, I888 repeat it? But I will risk iteration a little and have

some small say, beginning at

PHILAE where we spent two days in mid—February. Jules Baillet, son

of the Egyptologist in Orleans, France, and Georges Béné-
dite are spending the winter there. Baillet photographing and copy-
ing Greek inscriptions, of which he thought he had found a hundred
hitherto uncopied and Bénédite copying the Demotic and Hiero-
glyphic inscriptions. They had established themselves very comfort-
ably north of the island near the English Ofﬁcers, commanding the
Egyptian troops. M. Bénédite expects to spend the next winter there
also. They have cleaned many of the walls and dug where necessary
to read bottom lines without the fear of Grébaut before their eyes.
The little large-headed girl of the guardian, who kept the ﬂies of?
Victor, so assiduously when he was drawing inquired after him earn-
estly. The German restaurant man Kohn still stays, but has not ﬁn-

ished his hotel.

AT ASSUAN, to which we came down one day over the Cataract,
a rather tame affair except for one splash, the

Governor gave us a dinner, not Arab because we each had a spoon. It
was very good and conﬁrmed me in a suspicion that things taste
better when we eat with our ﬁngers.

More tombs have been opened around the convent hill and we
visited some of them, but I learn nothing of history or religion from
them. Mr. Budge the British Museum sub, is writing them up under
the name of Gen. Grenfell’s tombs.l Our pilot Abdool divorced his
Elephantine wife whose children die, having made up with his Er-
ment wife, whose children live. We spent ﬁve days at Assuan and
our Captain and most of his men went to see their homes, a few
miles above Philae.

At Assuan we parted company with Mr. Insinger who with his
little steamer went rapidly down to Luxor.

 

I. See letter of January 22. 1886.

459

