NOVEMBER 1885 TO MAY 1886]

I have yet seen on this boat. An English dahabeeyeh, which yester-
day had invited us to give it a tow, rowed triumphantly byjust as we
were starting. The men wanted to stop at Esneh, perhaps for some
purchases, for all are merchants as in all the Eastern stories, and did
not work with a will, and we might have been on the bank yet had it
not been for Insinger’s crew which came with strong aid.

However, at two o’clock we reached the hospitable parlor of Mme.
Bouillon and she showed us her antiquities, for which she has a gor-
geous case of dark wood inlaid with mother-of-pearl and ivory. We
inspected the ﬁnd of Kamoory’s son; there are many useful things in
it for a museum, though not many handsome things. One beautiful
bow has not been broken as most things put in tombs were so as to
kill them that their emancipated spirit might serve the spirit of the
dead man. Even the long stone with the beginning of the story of
Saneha was broken in the middle.

At sunset Toda rowed me out across the glassy water. I had ex-
pected to spend the day in Taud, two or three miles east, where there
is enough left of a temple to be interesting to me, but lost the chance
by our late arrival. Nothing has been published of it, except two or
three fantastic ﬁgures by Champollionl. We spent an hour in it four
years ago and I know there is much that is useful there.

Friday Mme. Bouillon, not content with giving us a
Feéruary 19, 1886 grand dinner with fresh green peas and such
things yesterday, made us stay to breakfast with
her and Morel and I concluded we had never made so good a break-
fast in Egypt as this. M. Bouillon who manages the sugar works here
for the Daira Saneeyeh has a repair shop in which he has built a
steamer; you can judge by that of the man and his place. A hand-
some man with much sunshine in his eyes. Insinger photographed
them and their house and some French friends who came in a daha—
beeyeh while we were there and then with Mme. Bouillon and her
dahabeeyeh and Insinger’s we started for Luxor and our letters.

Before breakfast I took out the tooth Dr. Lond had so much trou-i
ble with, scraped it, put it back and ate without any pain. It is the

I. Champollion le Jeune. “Monuments de l'Egypte et de le Nubie." Paris. p1. CXLV (Oct.); Notices des-
criptives. p. 292.
369

