NOVEMBER 1885 TO MAY 1886]

the American School must be to the disadvantage of the students,
though it may be a good thing for many college professors to have
passed a year here.

Wednesday I ﬁnd that my testament reading works well and
dpril 21, 1886 earns me the praise of my Cretan, who incidentally
informs me that Joseph is not a saint in the Greek
Church. Odd, isn’t it? I went after my two lessons, to the Theseion
and studied it as well as I could; the outside sculpture is very hard
to make anything of. But the architecture is almost uninjured, when
you stand off a little way, and makes this the most ﬁlling temple
here. There are some things inside, which took much time to see.
Then across the Piraeus railroad to the Sacred Gate and the tombs
out on the Sacred Way to Eleusis. These tombs carry me back as
few other things do. Taken together they are more perishable than
the ordinary marble tombs of our cemeteries and yet most of them
are over two thousand years old. Which makes me think that perhaps
the Greek marble would last even in our climate. For they have rain
here in plenty and some frost, enough to kill the orange trees ﬁve
years ago. And they have sea air, stronger than I have noticed any—
where else on the Mediterranean. These tombs and the many stones
and urns in the Museum, which have sculptured on them the F are-
well, a standing ﬁgure taking leave of one sitting, repeat to us,
what their art and literature tell, how measured and how self-
contained these Athenians were. Sad and sweet is she who remains,
sweet and sad is she who has risen to depart; there is nothing violent
or distorted. We can see that to them death was divine and to be
revered seriously, not abjectly.

Thursday I begin to read a morning paper as the main part of
April 22, 1886 my morning lesson. Afternoon I went about among
the seats of the Theatre of Dionysos. All the front

seats and some of the centre seats back have sculptured in the lower
front the name of the ofﬁcer for whom they were reserved and the
difference in the chairs and the difference in the sculpture becomes
very interesting for the different Ofﬁces. The centre front seat is
handsomely ornamented and belongs to the Priest of Dionysos, or

397

