[CHAPTER EIGHT

the beginning of a phrase. He made gestures unquakerish but to sit
as we did under the sky and look in, or rather listen without looking,
I could easily imagine myself sitting on a wooden bench in one of the
old meeting houses. But I was really sitting on a comfortable chair
and men with trousers and tarbooshes were introduced to me; one,
Sami Pasha, was in America in I 8 52, and spoke good American.

Dora keeps up the swimming; she is now asleep in the hammock
on deck. Mamma came day before yesterday into the back room
where we have set up an iron bed, lent by Luigi, who with hearty
sympathy presses upon us anything he has in the hotel. This morn-
ing Hassan Speke sent us a provision of Bairam cakes. Bairam is the
feast after the fast of Ramadan.

The weather has been thus far much better than I expected. It is
sometimes rather hot and dusty in the town, but it is very comfort-
able on the Seven Harbors, the thermometer is averaging nearly 80°
but it is a dry heat and we rarely lack for air.

CAIRO Lottie is decidedly better. For two or three days now
May 30, 1889 we see progress each day ...... We begin to

see a clear prospect of Paris and America.

Mr. Insinger came down yesterday morning. He is going to have
his boat out of the water for repairs, buy food and clothing for a year
and furniture for his new house and go back to Luxor with the rise of
the Nile. He looks blacker and thinner than ever. I saw his little
folks yesterday playing with their Rais Ahmed’s ﬁve-year-old boy

lust as if he was not a nigger.

Dr. Lansing and his oculist son and his wife were in day before
yesterday. He told me Professor Sayce’s1 father was dead and that he
would now be able to live in Egypt when and how he might like. The
Dean was in again yesterday, this time with Cookson, the genial
little Knight of Alexandria.

Tuesday night, being the last of Ramadan, Dora and I went over
to town and with Simaika to Sheikh Bekri’s Palace. Here in a great
court laid out with benches, were about an acre of turbans. We were
invited to the raised platform along the front of the Palace and

 

x. H. N. Sayce, “Reminiscences.” London. 1923. p. 273.

534

