[CHAPTER NINE

yanuary 26, 1890 Cold and windy. The Tell el Amarna cuneiform

tablets at Berlin have begun to be printed, not
translated. Sayce read me a letter from Dooshrattal, King of Baby-
lon, to the Heretic King, in which it appears that Aten Makt his
daughter whose torso I have, had a Babylonian mother, Dooshratta’s
daughter; the Heretic King’s mother was Dooshratta’s sister and
the mother of his father Amenophis III or Memnon, was Doosh-
ratta’s aunt. So my girl was seven-eighths Babylonian in blood. No
wonder that the Egyptians thought it time to change the dynasty. I
took I nsinger to Aly Moorad, found that the new American Consular
Agent at Assuan, appointed by Mr. Cardwell, lives at Karnak; Aly
Moorad sends the papers by post and telegraphs that he will be
responsible for anything against the dahabeeyeh. I suppose that it
is the annual tax, now due because the boat is let; while used as a
pleasure boat by the owner, there is no tax. Dr. Boase came to tea
and abused everybody, his idea of fun. Bouriant and my two French
boys came to dine.

yanuary 27, I890 The Berkeley boat came and went. Dr. Worth-

ington told us of four horned snakes which he
found under a stone in a Wady back of Tookh. Mr. and Mrs. Spicer
and her Australian uncle called; they showed a beautiful little green
porcelain plaque two inches long. A seated Sekhet and before her a
winged serpent standing on its tail, and a gold Ptolemy coin with
two heads on either side, quite rare. The mail brought us letters from
Compton and Paris and the rest of the world. Ned Priest’s mother is
dead; Professor Eisenlohr is coming “with the celebrated Dr.
Kussmaul.” Ned is at work on a large canvas at Aly Moorad’s.
The picture is to be a “Daphnis and Chloe,” it was suggested to me
three years ago by a little boy and girl running along the bank with
some sheep and goats. We all saw them.

7anuary 28, I890 Bouriant showed us some beautiful carved ivory}
he has just bought. Lottie went to see Mrs.

Murch, the second time she has been OH the boat. The ﬁrst time she

1. Letters from Dooshratta. King of Mitani (and not of Babylon). see J. A. Knudtzon. "Die El-Amarna-
Tafeln." Leipzig. 1907 and 1915. nos. 17—21. 23. 24. 26—29.

2. The famous “Mac Gregor Ivories." See G. Maspero. "T he Dawn of Civilization." and edit. London.
1896. p. 412. note 2. Burlington Fine Arts Club. “Catalogue of an Exhibition of Ancient Egyptian
Art." London, 1922, pl. LV and pp. 113-114. J. Capart. “Lectures on Egyptian Art." Chapel Hill.
1928, ﬁg. 89. p. r30.

548

