[CHAPTER NINE

Feéruary 9, 1890 I went alone to Philae where I found Bénédite

making very readable photographs, two dozen a
day. He expects to end his work this winter here. Mr. and Mrs.
Newman are delighted with their dahabeeyeh life and have picked
out the views he will paint next year. Dr. Worthington, Sayce and
Robertson breakfasted with us; the doctor examined Lottie and re-
assured us that her lungs were unaffected. After noon we were shown
a place on this island of Elephantine where bits of papyri are found,
not enough to get any words, but the style is of the Twelfth Dynasty.
The ruins of a temple, apparently of the Eighteenth Dynasty, form
a layer above the brick wall in which they are imbedded.

Then came the mail with letters from New Bedford and Compton
and Paris and elsewhere and papers from Montana telling of the
election of Republican Senators. May they get in. Mr. Judge came
in to tea and told how he destroyed the crops from Korosko to VVady
Halfa on the east side of the river last year. This starved the Der—
vishes, so that they could beat them. For three years previous he
was at Suakim; so he ﬁnds Assuan cool and comfortable.

February 10, 1890 Went to Seheyl and recompared part of the

stele I discovered last year. Afternoon we took
the Professor and his friend to see a promising doorway I had de-
scried from afar. It is in the yellow sandstone on the west bank of the
river, just above Elephantine. We found it an unﬁnished tomb with no
trace of inscription and roamed about above it, where there are late
graves and a Sheikh’s tomb which commands a wonderful view to
the east and south. Sayce went a little farther to an eminence
crowned by what Linnie had christened Pig Rock already from the
river. He came back late and elated.

February [1, 1890 To Seheyl again in the morning. After noon we

went to the west bank, Linnie and Dora to the
old Convent and Sayce and I to Pig Rockl, where we copied a store of
inscriptions and a considerable fragment of a stele. Dora found the
top of another. At dusk she suggested that there might be some-

 

I. Is it Konosso island? “Catalogue des Monuments et Inscriptions de I'Ezypte antique." Vol. 1. Vienna.
1894. pp. 65-74.

557-

