[CHAPTEREIGHT

released the Welch soldiers who passed by this morning. One of them
ﬁring from the boat, fantaiseeyeh surely for he never could have done
it by aiming, put a ball through the hand of a policeman. Johnson
telegraphed to stop him at Keneh, as if that could or would be done.
We dined at the Hotel with Lord McLaren, the tiny. Very fair and
untrammeled he is, thinking as much of David Hume as of John
Knox.

7cmuary 22, 1889 I was up at six looking after a small shower; for

the deck is not quite tight over my book—room.
Luckily there were not drops enough to run on the deck. Went with
Professor Fiske to see a coarse statue at Achmed Yussuf’s, which
Khaled, now Achmed’s partner, had bought at Ekhmeem for thirty-
two pounds, far too much Achmed and I think. There was also a
ﬁnely cut Roman face for which he had paid two and a half pounds;
it tempted me a little. Crete and his doctor came to lunch and Moor-
gaan would have been ﬂattered to see how Dr. Doat appreciated his
cookery. Lottie took the McLaren women to the market and to Mrs.
Murch’s and I brought the little jurist aboard to tea.

7ammry 23, 1889 From four to ﬁve in the morning I was attending

to the only heavy shower I have seen in Upper
Egypt. I had the water swabbed up as fast as it fell and only a drop
or two came through into the book-room. The rain passed freely
through the native cloth awning, while the awning of Mt. Vernon
Army Duck, shed it like a duck’s back. To bed again and up rather
late. I saw some good things at Todros’ anteekeh shop, among them
a staf? with a long and heavy brass ferule at bottom and a two-inch
crotch at top, below which hieroglyphs: Superior of the Amon-house,
Senmut. This I think is not the Architect of the Great Queen Hat-
shopsitu, whose statue Lepsius tookl, but the man of whom they
have a tablet in Berlin. The poor people round about wait patiently
here day after day and night after night with their boys who are be-
ing examined and registered for future conscription. The ofﬁcials
have taken possession of Mustafa’s old house in the temple; Grébaut

I. For the Lepsius statue see J. H. Breasted. “Ancient Records of Egypt." Chicago. 1906. vol. II. pp. 151-
153. The tablet. is published in “Aegyptische Inschriften aus den Staatlichen Museum zu Berlin."
Vol. II. Leipzig. 1924. pp. 92—96 is from the same man. There is in Berlin a decorated staff of Senmut:
see K. Sethe. “Urkunden der :8 dynastic." Vol. II. Leipzig, 1906, p. 417.

508

 

