NOVEMBER 1887 TO MAY 1888]

seizures. George is to be married this summer to a Greek who speaks
ever so many languages and he thinks will be of great help in the
hotel. I have just remembered that I did not see Bemba, the old
Ghazeeyeh, reminded of her by Bayard Taylor1 writing thirty-six
years ago. Our Luxor Mohammed says she is dead. Beato still
grumbles that his season is bad. He had made up some albums of a
hundred pictures, bound in Paris; Vanderbilt took them all. We saw
Khaleefeh and Aboo Gamb, who brought me a wooden

the ﬁrst I have even seen, and Jussouf and Old Kamoory

and all the westsiders and the rest. Tanyos, our old friend

on the steamer, is reis now in the stead of Mohammed Abd-

er-Rasool; the diggers tell me he makes them pay twice as

much. Abd-er—Rasool went gaily up on the Museum steamer; the
last is now ﬁrst and the ﬁrst last; Maspero’s men and ways make
place for Grébaut’s, which often seem to have no reason except the
wish to differ. His efforts to stop antiquity dealing are so successful
that Budge sent nine tons, they say, to the British Museum, through
General Grenfell, who himself is creating a private Museum, and
whose sendings to England pass the custom-house unchallenged. But
more of this by and by. Poor little Steea, “berry boor”2 Girgis said.
I saw her many times with the basket of material for ﬁre cakes on her
head. She asked after the rest and the boat and we seemed to have a
fascination for her, handsomer than ever. Shmendy too is better
looking, ought to be used as a model. Libiad has bloomed out into a
barber and he gave us his varying prices for Arabs and Hawagas.
Little Yassuf still cracks his joints and fat Parson Mench preaches in
Arabic and shows a choice collection of anteekeh which he will sell
from, as a favor to a friend. The Karnak Hotel had the overﬂow of
the other, sometimes twenty or thirty guests. Professor Lieblein went
there. He was much disturbed when warned off from a little Chapel of
Shepenapt,3 a Queen of the Twenty—sixth Dynasty, which Grébaut
found a quarter of a mile north of the west Pylon of Karnak, but I
smoothed him over and afterwards he was welcomed and shown all
there was, part of the foundations. I nsinger’s health was poor; I think
he suffered more than I have seen him before. He has begun his house

 

1. James Bayard Taylor, “Life and landscapes from Egypt to the negro kingdoms of the White Nile."
London. 1855. Chapter X—the Almehs. Luxor and Karnak. pp. 131-144.

2. Very poor.

3. Baedeker, "Egypt." 1929. p. 293.

463

