[CHAPTER TEN

men who dig for him by the cubic metre, they trusting to his fairness
both for the measurement and the rate. My Quakerish patient to
whom I introduced him in Cairo, said that he had the eyes of an
animal and made her think of Elsie Venner. The Hat/wresses call

them eagle’s eyes.

yanuary 10, 1891 I went by rail to Wasta and thence to Medeenet
el Fayoom. Dr. Watson and little Miss Connor of
the American Mission were on the train. She is enthusiastic about
antiquities. They were going to Senoras to a station and she would
come to Medeenet soon. To my disgust Grébaut had cleared out the
principal anteekeh shop, paying seventy pounds therefor. There was
a big mortar in granite we might have pounded our coffee in with a
ﬁne inscription about it and a long piece of carved wood of Roman
time. We should have bought them last spring. But Khaleel of that
shop took me to Stamati’s where I spent six dollars for eight terra-
cottas, a Jupiter head, a big blue scarab and four other bits of porce-
lain; and to Haggy Mahmood’s near the French Consulate where I
spent one dollar for two ancient Arab glasses with queer little tubes
sticking up in the middle and ﬁve dollars for thirty terra—cottas, two
marble heads, one of a woman doing her hair, and two porcelains.

Returning I found the Professor just arrived, having failed to ﬁnd
Mrs. Lansing and his table clothing and having spent that night on a
sandbank, and the next day in almost vain endeavors to track. The
hunt for the table cloth cost him two days.

7ammry 11, 1891 Today as Mr. Sayce had to go to Petrie and

especially to see Mr. Bliss, arrived yesterday, to
instruct him about the excavations he is to make at Lachishl with
a thousand pounds from the Palestine Exploration Fund; Dora and I
went across the River to explore the City of Hathor, the Aphroditop-
olis2 of the Greeks, Atfeeh to-day. Half an hour from the bank we
found it on a mound forty feet above the level and honey-combed by
diggings for sebakh, the dust of ages, rich in phosphates still. We
journeyed about for two hours, but found only work of Roman time
1. Lachish in Palestine; see W. M. Flinders Petrie, "Tell el Hesy (Lachish)," London. 1891; Frederick

Jones Bliss, ”The Development of Palestine Exploration." London. 1906. pp. 273—276.
2. H. Gauthier, “Dictionnaire de noms géographiques," vol. II. Cairo. 1925. p. 94.

580

