FEBRUARY 1884 TO MAY 1884]

greeted Seleeb, whom I had seen only through my cabin window this
winter before. He is one of the Sioot college boys, speaks American
well and taught Miss Wiedemann Arabic! Captain Molyneux of the
Invincible who called on us in Luxor was returning from Assuan and
young Rochefort who with Olivier Pain started for the Mahdi; Pain
stopped at Assuan on the way back. They could get no camels and
were obliged to give up seeing Aboo Seyf Hashob this year. Fresnaye
had told Maspero that the Mudeer of Soohag had told him he had
received orders to send word to the Government when they should
come down. When the Reis Mohammed who guides the boat while
we are moving and ﬁshes while we are not, returned from the bosom
of his family across the river, we steamed to Soohag and called on the
Mudeer. He is our old friend of two years ago in Keneh, displaced
last year for Arabism and replaced this for his talents. He seemed
very glad to see us again and wanted us to stay to dine with him, but
we can get to Sioot to-day, sand banks permitting, and so eight men
shouldered a statue of Memnon in black granite‘ and we left the cool
and airy Mudereeyeh. Of course he repaid the visit after ten min-
utes and admired the mummies. He has been very kind to old Kaleel
who is conducting the Ekhmeem diggings, going thither himself on a
very hot day and giving him soldiers. Maspero thinks there is a
head in the Museum which will ﬁt this statue. A sand bank detained
us a few minutes between this and the last sentence and we all there
went up stairs, Mme. leaving her sewing and Maspero his Humores-
ken. I have been trying to copy the Mensheeyeh stele we took on
going up, near ﬁfty long lines, trying to the eyes with this shake, but
not half so trying to copy it from Maspero’s copy as from the ori-
ginal. Mme. is putting the ﬁfty-ﬁrst darn on an old kitchen apron.

We reached Sioot and its assemblage of steamers at dusk. The
Dutchman, Mr. Inzinger came to see us and Olivier Pain, for it was
he and not Rochefort who came down. He is going to Cairo and then
up the river again to make another trial ......

Don’t worry about the English Victories. The Sooakin campaign
has ended and the troops have returned. The English hold the town
as they did before; they hold nothing else. On the last days advance

 

1. Perhaps the statue L. Borchardt. “Statuen und Statuetten von Konigen und Privatleuten" (Catalogue
général du Musée du Caire). Vol. III. Berlin. 1930, no. 742. pp. 69—70. and pl. 137.

301

