FEBRUARY 1884 TO MAY 1884]

to endanger shoulders, especially as the waiters do not feel that a
nice roast lamb can dirty anybody’s clothes. Old Roowayha had
been brought over from Qoos to furnish music during the dinner and
after it was cleared away there was a fantaiseeyeh. The Consuless’
cough soon called her away, but Mme. Maspero staid till the end;
she said she could hardly realize that these were women of the same
race as she. The contract was ﬁnished and signed; the French receive
land and a hundred twenty pounds to build a new house with and
we said good—bye to the Consul who departs before we rise.

Little Mohammed, now grown taller, who donkey-boyed me to
Karnak, told me about going with one of Mustapha’s Alexandria
sons, Hassan, on a tax-collecting voyage up the river as far as
Korosko two months ago. At Edfoo the people came with guns and
they had to send to Esneh for thirty soldiers; then they paid without
a beating. They did not beat the Arabs much but the Barabra (the
Nubians) all had to be beaten ﬁfty or sixty blows on the feet before
they would pay. He and another boy did most of it. Yesterday
British Mr. Benn bragged that England had done one good thing for
Egypt; she had abolished the Coorbash.

Thursday . . . . . I found another tomb behind Yussuf’s
March 6, 1884 house at Qoornet Murray, made for a High Priest of
Mentu of Taood, Toorol in the time of Ramses IV.

I visited the woman Giudeeyeh, who showed me the (modern) stamp
from which she moulds and bakes the round brick stamps of Ramses
III, that are always offered you in his temple at Medinet Haboo.
She lives next north of Yussuf and I encouraged her industry; it
saves monuments from destruction. Then we went to the steles of
Ramses III2 behind the hill and mapped them and then to the Tombs
of the Queens, or rather, as Lepsius calls them, the Princesses,3 for
King’s daughter is the ﬁrst title and we know from the baby mummy
in the Museum that the after title of King’s wife may be very pros-
pective. The name of one is quite gone and the way in which “king’s
daughter” has been scratched out, shows a posthumous attack on

 

1. Tomb of Hekmaranakht. also called Turo. no. 222 A. H. Gardiner and A. E. P. Weigall. “A Topographi-
cal Catalogue of the private tombs of Thebes." London. 1913.

2. B. Bruyére. “Mert Seger a Deir el Medineh." Cairo. 1929.

3. Murray, “Egypt." 1881. D. 492; Lepsius. ”Denkmaler." Text. vol. III. Leipzig. 1900. pp. 325-236.

285

