[CHAPTER NINE

March 26, 1890 A mile and a half south of Sharoneh we landed at

Kom el Ahmar where a temple was in the time of
Nestor L’Hote whose plan I copied in the National Library at Paris.
No stone of it remains. Two miles east I found the Sixth Dynasty
tomb of Pepi-anch‘, which L’Hote describes, it has the scenes com-
mon to the pyramid tombs; only about two feet next the ceiling is
now visible. Sheep and goats ﬁnd it comfortable and the ﬁne-faced
Bedawee who came from his woolen tent near by did not know that
it had more interest than any other of the many rock-rooms there-
about. Then I rode alone to Sharoneh, prospected, seeing carved
stones, some Greekish capitals, over the doors of houses and ﬁnally
being shown built in in the house of Ahmed El Hareedee a sandstone
fragment of bas-relief with the cartouche of the Heretic Queen.
He had brought it from Kom el Ahmar2 with other stones, limestone
with Coptic decoration. He could show me a big stone like it in place
there. So back I went with him by land and water to the Korn where
from his discription I Could trace the oblong of the temple, departed
twenty-seven years ago to build the great pumping works at Shar-
oneh now eight years disused. And in the canal a hundred yards
north of the bridge lay a piece of brown stone I x 2 x 4 feet which bore
the cartouches of Ptolemy Soter“. It was a cornice stone of a small
Chapel, unearthed while digging the Canal. Hundreds of acres south
and east of the Kom are full of holes from which burned brick are
taken.

March 27, 1890 We blundered along against the wind to El Fent.

Sayce prophesied that there would be continuous
north wind this year, owing to the extreme cold in Europe. It seems
to be so; we have never known such steady, strong north wind.
Luckily we are not in a hurry and all have plenty to do. Linnie is far
along with three articles; Lottie has a big volume of journal and
housekeeping of which Dora does the Arabic talk mainly. They
doctor the sailors; both our longest oars have bad feet, poulticed with

I. M. Brodrick and A. Morton. "The Tomb of Pepi-Ankh (Khua) near Sharona" in “Proceedings of the
Society of Biblical Archaeology." vol. XXI. 1899. pp. 26—33; J. Willoughby Fraser. “The Tomb of Pepi.
Ankh XHUA." ibidem. p. 143; Thadee Smolenski. "Le Tombeau d'un prince de la VIedynastie 5 Cha-
ronna” in “Annalee du Service des Antiquitéa," vol. VIII. 1907. pp. 149—153.

2. H. Gauthier. “Dictionnaire des noms géographiques." vol. IV. Cairo. 1927. p. 86.

3. G. Daressy. "Notes et Remarques." §XCVIIL in “Recueil dc Travaux," vol. XVI. 1894. p. 44.

566

