DECEMBER 1882 To APRIL 1883]

temples on the west side in the heat of the day and will be back on
their boat by three o’clock. They have not learned that here the
evening and the morning are the day. I have been watching them and
the birds on a more southerly sand bank with the little telescope from
time to time. The feathered fowl are perhaps more interesting. They
seem to be having a better time. Little and big, long necks and short,
digniﬁed and greedy, the birds have the advantage of seeming quite
unconscious. A huge fellow whom I will not try to name, was at-
tended by two little friends for more than a quarter of an hour

while he plumed himself. Paul Pry ; is inquiring, half his long legs

in the water. No little fellows about him. What can we call this bun-

dle huddled up as if afraid of taking cold? 1 Afar off a little wor-
shipper, >~€ only much smaller, say 4' . There is a pleasant north
wind and a French dahabeeyeh has come in and I have seen Albert
Bensileum, Mr. Elsen’s dragoman of two years ago, taking his
French Howagas down to Karnak in a boat.

Thursday I celebrated Washington’s Birthday by visiting
February 22, 1883 about thirty tombs in Sheikh Abd el Gurnah; I
have never seen so many before in one day. It is
a good beginning for my tomb-map. The sarcophagus of Sebekaa is
well started on its way to the river. In the evening I met at Aly’s a
party of fourteen Americans who have a Cook steamer to themselves
for a two weeks’ trip. A Mr. Ames of Boston contributes ﬁve of the
number. Three of the fourteen are men. Some of the women are quite
intelligent and know how to ask questions. Their dragoman has been
making himself interesting. He told them that one of the crypts in
Denderah wasjust discovered and that Mariette for ten years had men
looking all over Egypt for the mummy of Ramses II ......
We now think of starting for Assuan Tuesday, but we shall stop here
some time on our way back.

Side Saddle This morning to Karnak I looked at some of the
and Noise ' smaller temples and copied a little, then showed
Friday some of the Americans the Temple of Maut
February 23, 1883 and breakfasted with them. It was quite like be-
ing in America to ﬁnd women who wanted to

know something. I answered some of their questions and gave them

221

