[CHAPTERSEVEN

Indigene de Iere Instance Benha.” He seemed overjoyed and wanted
to know by what train you were coming that he might see you during
the stop.

Wednesday We tied up about six miles out on the east bank
Decemaer 7, 1887 where I have never been before. And this morn-
ing I feel the beauty of the glassy river. There is

no wind and Nefady has gone for donkeys. He and I will ride to
Cairo and get the letters which should have come last night and come
back, if there be wind, by rail. This will give me a chance to pay my
bill, and possibly to know what day you are coming. John Cook is
kind enough to offer to stop any of his boats, if you can take one, at

the dahabeeyeh.

NILE By Kate Greenaway’s Almanac, sent me by
Deceméer 15, 1887 Mrs. Sexton ..... We left Cairo the sixth
and this morning were as far on our upward way
as we should have been at ten-eleven A. M. had we taken the train at
eighty—thirty, a hundred and one minutes before. The south wind has
had its own sweet way. The ﬁrst day, as I wrote you, we came to the
ﬁrst station on the Helwan road, where we spent four nights and
whence I went to Cairo twice, once with Nefady by donkey. Then we
crawled a mile or two up on the west bank to Shaykh Otman and
enjoyed palms, some like those of Bedresheyn for a night. Thence we
came up opposite El Tebein, whence we saw the houses of Helwan
to the northeast and to the west the pyramids of Dashoor. Here we
tarried three nights and Insinger visited Cairo one day with “Puff-
puff.” '

At Shaykh Otman I called on an English Cook dahabeeyeh, the
Phi/Mix, wherein are Mrs. Hassall and her sister, intelligent women
who went up in a Cook steamer last year and their niece who may be
intelligent but is not handsome. This I can say without fear of contra-
diction. We have called on each other alternate days.

On my big map there are twelve pages to Sioot; in eight days we
made one of them. Yesterday we made another and to-day we hope
for a third. The boat sails better than last year, and Aboo Shanab’s
not quite so well, so yesterday I took “PuH-puff” in tow and then out-

442

