NOVEMBER 1885 TO MAY 1886]

di Torino. A big cake which his mother sent him, a Christmas spe-
cialty of the Cathedral City, reminded me by its size of William
Henry and by its taste of Election Day. Yesterday I found Ellen and
her Pastor hoping you would be in Paris when they come, a time
quite uncertain as yet. He begins to think that the Palestine voyage,
which he alone was expecting to make next year, would be less useful
to him than another semester here. I suggested that this Theology
might not be acceptable to Methodists in America, and I was glad
to hear him answer that the only thing he was concerned about in
preaching, was to satisfy himself. Professor Wiedemann received me
with eEervescent joy. Madame and Margaret had gone out with
“The Ofﬁcer” to look for a Wohnung for next May. Next summer he
and his wife would be left quite alone and would be so lonely; his
look and voice contradicted his words and I rejoiced with him. He
and Ellen and the Pastor would be remembered to you.

As soon as possible after writing to Judge Hagens, I got a very
pressing invitation from him, telling me when and how to come to
Posen and that my room was ready for me. The feeling of the letter
was so warm and hearty that it made me feel very much like going
right away. But I had work to do and there was snow on the ground.
So there was almost all the way last night coming hither. It was not
easy, but the Library was off my mind and the second class car was
much more comfortable than the wagon-lit from Paris to Cologne. I
came here to the same room that I had in May, 1884, and the same
old woman brought me “warmes Wasser.” Many years, she says, has
she been here. But her then assistant, a noble country girl who
seemed fascinated by the Egyptian labels on my baggage, and who
asked me about Egypt in a German I could understand, rare among
common folk hereabout, was not up to the work and had gone home
into her country Mutlez'dena’e. I don’t know what that is, but the
heir to the throne of Saxony, who did not have Schnitzel at the Weih-
nachts-bescherung the other evening, is so also.

I found Dr. Politzer before eleven and he seemed really glad to see
me and still more so to ﬁnd on testing, that I now hear better than
when I left him. Surely the cold weather and close work in Leipzig
have made the rushing rather worse.

33I

