[CHAPTER THREE

around the seasons. Down through the glowing river, red with the
echoed sunset, comes the boat which is to carry this away. It is no
camel of the sea, as the Arabs call sailing ships, but its smoke-wing
which elsewhere would be black and oEensive is here transmuted by
the alchemy of Tuml into a rich golden brown. The gods of Egypt are
mighty; they can transform even that which is English into some-
thing beautiful and strange.

TOMBS OF THE KINGS I went rather late to Biban el Molook alone.
Saturday Maspero took Bouriant with him to copy a
February 10, 1883 long Coptic inscription uncovered in clearing
out the Tomb of Sebekaa,2 which turned out

to be a lot of inscriptions, among them a whole sermon of St. Chry-
sostom, hitherto, I think unknown in Coptic translation. Lefébure
was working away at his Seti tomb doggedly and quietly as is his
wont. He had Bourgoin with him. Bourgoin is a good designer who
belongs to the school and who was up with us two years ago. He was
in ferocious humour because he generally is and because he was not
well and because two Arabs were also drawing ﬁgures and hiero-
glyphs in the tomb of Seti. They were the father of my candlestick,
Aly Husseyn, an old man of eighty, straight as an arrow who is the
keeper of the Tomb of Rekhmara at Gurnah, and the father of
Yoosef, the man who made your scarabées—to whom I have just
given an order for thirty-three more for the people on the boat. Yoo-
sef’s father draws while Aly’s father superintends and holds the can-
dle. Villiers Stuart3 is to give them a napoleon for the copy and he will
I suppose put it in his this year’s book. If faithfully reproduced it will
be better than his own work. Lefébure has begun to be acquainted
with his neighbors in Gurnah and told me he was invited to dinner by
Todros, the Presbyterian Copt whom and whose house I wrote you
about two years ago. Maspero thinks Lefébure ineffective, but he is
getting acquainted with the antiquities in a way which cannot be
equalled by living on the boat and making occasional Visits to a dig-
ging in the middle of the day. I compared my Black Book in the tomb

 

I. Tum. sun god of Heliopolis.
2. Instead of Sebekaa read Dega: See U. Bouriant. “L'Eglise copte du tombeau dc Dega." Paris. I 884.
3. Villiers Stuart. of Dromana. M. P.. “Egypt after the “far" . . . London. 1883. Chapter XXXV. pp.

342-358.
212

