[CHAPTER FIVE

Bacchus, or Osiris, when he comes. Whence this is called his theatre.
The front row is nearly all reserved for priests, the little worships
having the side seats. There is but one priestess and she is not in the
front row. Nor was the General, by whom sat the Herald. Plato must
have been mistaken when he says thirty thousand people could sit
in this theatre; that is a sort of newspaper count. I cannot ﬁnd seats
for over six thousand. But Plato is right when he says the sea could
be seen by the house and Mahaffy, in partly denying it, is partly
wrong. From most of the seats the sea is visible to the southwest. It
is hard to realize that here the Prometheus was played and there, in
that chair, sat the priest of Neptune to hear it and to see it that
day ......

Friday This week is called here not “holy” but “great.”
111271723, 1886 So today is big Friday and I went to the Russian
Chapel, where the main room is as large as our
parlor and the people came in to kiss a picture of Christ laid out on a
table, and especially a silver bound book which lay closed in the
midst of the picture. The little ones were held up. All crossed them-
selves several times; some bowed the head to the carpet. In the
Cathedral, the Metropolis as they call it, there was a great crowd and
the picture, a sort of mixture of painting and gold embroidery, was
protected against the ardor of faith by a lace cover. Here the throng
was so great that it seemed as though the little ones must be hurt; I
standing, behind the table, was amused to see a little girl pop out
from under it; the crush in front excused her irreverent escape. In the
squat Kapni-Karea, where I read an inscription saying that it was
built in 418 by Eudokia, Little Theodosios’ wife, there were fewer
people, but at St. Eirene’s, where there is not a bad picture of Paul
at Mars’ Hill, it was less comfortable than at the Metropolis. St.
Eirene’s is new; it is the pride ofAthens and is unknown to Murray.
The people at the Russian (Nikodemus’) Chapel seemed upper-
crustian and I noticed that the best bred after the ordinary kiss, but
continuously after, made a further inclination of the forehead which
brought the nose into effective contact with the object. In the other
churches the multitude precluded manners.

398

