[CHAPTER THREE

behind it, west through the far-reaching gray desert, east across the
green wheat—lands and the river white with lateen sails carving their
way southwards, to the reddish mountain range, and south up the
golden glow of the life-giving stream, and across the billowy sand-
sea on its right to the cloud-shadowed mountain which closes it in.
A black island lying of}~ this black monotony, was the piled-up pyra—
mid of Meidoom, whose secret we demanded in vain last year. If I
could send you a photograph of its blackness alone amid the gray
ocean waves which seemed to chase each other around it and to come
rushing towards my perch, you would never believe that they were
sand alone and not a Sandy sea; you would not see the lower-lying
lake of green Nile—land to the left, which dispels the illusion. We
came back and steamed to Riggah, opposite Atﬁeh, the capital of
the northernmost of the Nomes of Upper Egypt. Now we shall begin
to count them backwards beginning with this, the Twenty-second. In
this town in Strabo’s time the great Hathor, one of the Seven, was
seen and adored in the form of a white cow. We passed a station
where they are digging bones of sacriﬁce to ship to England for
manure. “To such base uses come the Gods at last.”

NEAR ABU GIRGEH To—day we have steamed up nearly to Abu
Tuesday Girgeh in a marvelously beautiful atmos-
7anuary 23, 1883 phere. I opened the two arks and tried to dis-
_ cover the needful for photography. I miss
some things from Brugsch's borrowing, but hope to make out. At
evening the moon came out so beautiful that I could not help trying
the little telescope on it, and then on Jupiter who with his four
satellites made a row. The air washed by the showers is very pure
and transparent. During the day I found the engineer’s assistant
with spectacles on nose reading a volume of poetry and the captain
with a fragment of the glorious but interminable romance of Antar.
I have put up a lot of hooks and now have out in sight books and
photographic apparatus, clothes, drawing-table, Medusa, my pretty
wood hawk Horus and “A Tribute of Affection.” After dinner M.
Maspero had his usual game of chess with Piehl who is usually
beaten twice out of the three times.

196

