[CHAPTER TEN

I took my men to his boat and him to mine to tea and in three hours
his boat was along side.

February 3, 1891 With a wind favoring, rare in this bend, we came

to Karnak, and I looked over the list of Palestine
towns conquered by Thothmes II. Among them is the name Moses-
God and this long before Moses is supposed to have lived. At Karnak
February third, 1891, we looked over the list of conquered places by
Thothmes III in Palestine and Sayce was delighted to ﬁnd that all
the publications were wrong on one, which was just what he had
guessed it to be from the Tell el Amarna cuneiform tablets.

February 4, 1891 We went to Luxor in the morning ignominiously

by the tow—rope for the ﬁrst time, and we staid
there eight days. Insinger’s house and his three little girls have grown;
Jasmeen the patient sister of Mariam died a month ago. He himself
looks very well and he had garden stuff to give us. He has bought
some bits of land and taken some in pawn, an old custom here, and
now has ﬁfteen acres. We dined with him one evening, Sayce, Gré—
baut, Bouriant and I, and Sayce caught a fever—cold which has both-
ered his chest and head for a fortnight. Aly Moorad and his son are
much as usual. The debt he was held on for the Sheikh of the Abab-
deh, whom the British have imprisoned as a Mahdi sympathizer, has
made him put some of his land in pawn; though he told me nothing of
it. Lottie and the girls lunched with Fatima and her mother and
brought home gifts from Fatima’s needlework. The Cook hotels are
full, Canon Isaac Taylor1 and family, Mr. 8: Mrs. Leavitt, Professor
Hill, and some others that we knew. The Tewﬁkeeyeh Hotel, north
of the Karnak, looked well and the people liked it. Miss Booth and
Miss Brocklehurst, who came up the Nile in the Bagstones, along
with Miss Edwards and ﬁgure in her “Thousand Miles Up the Nile",
and whom I saw later when I was with Maspero, came to see me,
and were found much better than they looked. Mr. Headlam, an Ox—
ford fellow, who has come here to do Coptic was resting from tented
labors and from one sanguinary night which he incautiously spent in
a Dayr, where he was assaulted by multitudes. Lottie went to hear

 

1. Isaac Taylor, English Orientalist (1829-1901).

586

