NOVEMBER 1888 TO JULY 1889]

which Maspero and I visited to see a Greek’s excavations, and from
which came vases, granite and other. Pointing over to the red mound
of Shoteb, two miles away, Omar told me why the Greek dug there.
There is an underground way thence to Shoteb, much used of old by
the Sultans of Dronkah and of Shoteb1 for social and convivial pur—
poses. But when the Sultan of Shoteb demanded the hand of the -
daughter of the Sultan of Dronkah the Sultan of Dronkah turned up
his Dronkah nose at the Sultan of Shoteb; revelling together was all
very well, but for his son-in—law, he must have a great Sultan. How—
ever, the course of the Sultan of Shoteb’s love ran smooth through
the subway and back again with the daughter, willing or unwilling,
Omar had not heard. But when the Sultan of Dronkah found it out,
he gathered his army and marched to Shoteb and took it and burned
it utterly so that its crude bricks grew red and are so even unto this
day. This is the old way of “painting the town red.” The Greek found
the door of this way but had not money enough to get in to where the
gold is.

At Dronkah, Omar tells me, lives Aboo Leefa, who is the anteekeh
man of his region and has been in prison for it, which seems to add to
a man’s reputation. He is not afraid 0’ nights because he has a ring,
which he does not put on in the day time, and which makes his heart
like iron. He knows all the tombs and all the ancient and terrible
places, for he has a book from his father which has maps of them all.2
Aboo Leefa says he has a golden chicken (farrooga) for which he will
take a thousand guineas; when one asks to see it, he says: “Show me
the money first.” Omar seems a little skeptical about the chicken.
We went to his house, where it is etiquette to call him Hassan; he has
gone to Abooteeg to get stuff, would be back next day at sunset.

DAYR REEFA Continued. We looked in all the many and vast
Noveméer 29, 1888 quarries by the way; that is, Showolly and Mo—
hammed Arbab did, for they were mostly one to

two hundred feet above the plain, and came thus to Dayr Reefa. The
Goommus was in Sioot, which Omar thought a bad thing, as I ought
to be made much of by the Goommus; I, having no special appetite

I. Dronka and Shoteb—see Murray. "Egypt," 1880. p. 425: “At Shodb are the mounds and crude brick
remains of Hypsele."

2. See for such a book A. Kama]. "Livre des perles enfouies et du mystére précieux au sujet des indications
dea cachettes. dea trouvailles et des trésors." Cairo. 1907; p. 233. about Dronka.

483

 

