[CHAPTER FOUR

give them a beating, only not the French; she did not wish that. The
North Germans, like the English, had too many children, so that
they were obliged to migrate; two or three or four were enough; she
should decline to have more than two. The Scandinavians? I asked.
Oh, they were the very soul of truthfulness, much more than English-
men; when she drove in a carriole seventy to ninety kilometres a day
from Trondheim to Christiania she saw much of the people and when
you asked them a question they would stop to think so as to tell you
more truly. And they were so tall. She liked tall men, a man who
could take her up in his arms and she was so heavy. She had been
promised by a gentleman who had lived long in Damascus and had
printed a book on the Proverbs of Syria that he would be at Cairo;
perhaps at Alexandria; he had been her guest for some days; and
would help her in her journey. I showed her his name in a book of
Spitta’s, whereat she wondered greatly. These scraps of talk I have
put together, not as they were told me, but in the light of the appear-
ance on deck in the port of the tall Swede, Carlo Landberg. The
widow was happy. But she was not so happy, I think, as Mme.
Maspero when I told her I had descried her man; she has not got
over the meeting yet. We landed Wednesday afternoon and Farman
had left orders at the Hotel Abbatt to be notiﬁed. He came, anxious.
Mrs. F. has not come and he wants her. He had written to me at
Florence in Welch’s care; I didn’t go to Welch’s. I think he expected
her to come on with me. He is (always) going away soon. We came
to Cairo, to the boat Wednesday evening. Hervé, Maspero’s brother,
was thrown from a horse against a tree last Sunday and bruised so
that he cannot rest his weight on his feet. I jumped on a donkey
Thursday morning and tore a little place in my leg, but it is repair-
ing. Riding on a donkey does not hurt it. There were many at the
station to meet Mme. among them Guy Lussac. It rains every day
and there was hail Thursday as big as little peas. Cairo is very sad
and in great poverty and suffering, so great that the defeat of
Baker does not add much to it. Hardly any travellers; three years
ago the Cook boats carried up eight hundred; this year twenty. Dr.
Grant yesterday told me how the British government in the interest
of its commerce had decreed that cholera was not contagious or em-
portable and that consequently quarantines should be abolished;

260

