OCTOBER 1881 T0 APRIL 1882]

SIOOT We have come up and received our letters. . .
5 P. M. It is not pure love of gossip in N aville which leads
March 26, 1882 him to seek something against Brugsch; the Egyp-
tian magnates in Berlin like it and he wishes to ﬁnd
favor with them. I saw the adventure of Charley Hermann (v. H.)
in Spain. He may not have been at fault, but generally, I think, for—
eigners when they get into trouble have only themselves to blame.
An Englishman has been making a great fuss in Alexandria, because
he would walk on the ramparts, and the soldiers, whose duty it was
to prevent it, did. He had his little battle with them and is astonished
his Consul does not ﬁght for him. You speak of “The Prince” and
some books. Which Prince? There are a lot of them. I am sorry that
the little Moorehouse girls have lost their doll. Mr. Patterson told
me his mother gave Oscar Wilde a reception in Baltimore.
Don’ t read 1n the evening and don’ t read the criminal matters in
French newspapers. It 13, I think, much worse than a waste of time,
though it is very popular with the French reading public. I hope that
the news Zoe has from Compton is exaggerated; it does not come
from Mother and in Compton as in Cairo they know how to make
stories interesting. Linnie really ought to be punished for not writing
oftener, she writes such good letters.

Monday I was not enterprising enough to go to see the
March 27, 1882 tombs of the Eleventh Nome, three hours away,
alone, and so they must wait till next year. But in
the afternoon I did go with donkey and his boy to the Sioot Thir-
teenth Dynasty tombs and corrected texts published by de Rougé.l
There is a very long one there on which I know Maspero has spent a
month, and has made many conjectures as to missing signs, whereon
he has based his translation, but he seems to have no curiosity to
know whether they are true. Indeed he works only on what he can
make an article about, and to get on in the world, perhaps that is the
best way.
It is on the whole lucky that enmities prompt the work of original
research for the purpose of criticism; otherwise I do not see that any-
body now in Egypt would pay attention to the accuracy of published

1. E. de Rougé. "Inscriptions hiéroglyphiques copiées en Egypte.” Paris, 1879, pl. CCLXXI-CCXCIII;
F. L. Grifﬁth. “The Inscriptions of Sim. and D6 Rifeh." London, 1889.

157

