NOVEMBER 1886 TO APRIL 1887]

hung up. The Library is still encumbered with many eatables. But
the machine begins to work and when we got back from Sakkarah
Lottie said she was glad to get “home”. It is a pleasure to have a mov-
ing house and ours is as big as the one Columbus ﬁrst crossed in.

NEARING MINIEH We have been lucky as far as wind is concerned,

Monday but what is the odds so long as we are happy.

7anuary 3, I887 The weather has been warm except for an hour

of chill fog after sunrise, and we have been ﬂoat-

ing past unaccustomed and lovely scenes. We can grumble at our

Coptic cook, which saves our Nubian waiter and makes a little saint
of the ironing boy.

Tuesday We sailed to Ayat, Wednesday to Beni Sooef
yanuary 4, 1887 and Thursday to Bibbeh, where next morning
we visited the Coptic Convent1 and Ned made a

sketch in the Church of it. Friday night we anchored in the midst of
the evening and in the morning the Germans had left us. Since then
until to-day the wind has been light and we have anchored where
night found us. We have descried them six and two and three miles
away; they are about that now. This afternoon Insinger went
aground, but got off before we could go to help him. The folks are not
getting much out of this part of the voyage. Ned is very busy on some
illustrations of Romola for the new S cribner’: Magazine. Victor works
a little on scenery but while the boat is in motion, on still life, terra-
cotta and oranges and red cloth books, arrangements of color. Eve-
nings he does gymnastics on the deck. Linnie is studying Burckhardt’s
“Italian Renaissance” and is astonished to ﬁnd that John Adding-
ton Symond’s famous books thereon draw all their ideas therefrom.
Dora is so much elated with the eight dollar sewing machine that
she works on it nearly all day and is inventing things to be sewed.
And Lottie is having such a wrestle with boat housekeeping that
it is only rarely she can get time for a peep at the panorama. We put
a hundred and thirty New Year’s cards in the Post Oﬂice at Bibbeh;
I hope that they will go to our friends without too much interrup-
tion from Post Ofﬁce oﬁicials. To-day we passed Tehneh where last

 

1. Murray. “Egypt." 1880, vol. II. p. 399.

417

