[CHAPTER FIVE

ﬁrst whole tooth I have had out and I mean to keep it as long as I
can.

Here we are at Luxor again in this gray day; on the way from
Erment there were even a few drops of rain. We got our letters, here
since Monday ...... It is a breath of fresh air to read them,
though I see you have no idea of surprising me ...... I am
glad that Mrs. Poole has a chance to live for a little while her own
life. Most people who are big enough need that and don’t get it. I
suppose the Londoners will continue to cry out against the dangerous
character of the Parisian populace; perhaps, though the riots were
instigated by the American dynamiters. I trust you are having better
weather; they are having a hard enough winter in America by the last
accounts. M. Maspero who hears of your visit through Mme. Morel
has been troubled for a week with gout which has kept him on the
divans below and on deck, and ﬁlled two note books with notes and
sketches. We ﬁnd two or three dahabeeyehs here on our return but no
acquaintance except Guy Lussac and his nineteen-year old wife.

Saturday I went over the river with Maspero, the Guy-
Feéruary 20, 1886 Lussacs and Toda and while they saw the sights
worked on Seti’s Temple‘. Champollion has not
described the whole of it, even in his cursory way. What is the most
striking thing of the day’s work is that the portions decorated by
Ramses II are so inane; there seems no reason for or thought in them.
Rough in execution, there is little variety in the gods and less in the
offerings, these last being almost always wine.

At evening there had appeared the little steamer of M. Bouillon,
the large one of John Cook already back from Assuan, and a Cook
boat, chartered by a Consular Party. Janissary Hassan of the Ameri-
can Consulate, who used to be so handsome, took me to Mr. Cox who
with his wife are fresh from Constantinople. We had a pleasant hour’s
talk about many things and you and Mrs. Sexton. Mr. Cox does not
seem strong, hardly like making a speech in Tammany Hall. He
commented severely on some of Secretary Bayard’s appointments,
particularly the Consul at Jerusalem.

 

x. The Qumeh Temple.

370

