[CHAPTERSEVEN

there is a seven days’ moon. He comes in with nothing; I ought to
have gone myself. He says the Ef'fendi, that is the telegraph operator,
does not understand English. I must on to Magaga.

F OREFATHER’S DAY We came on from Bibbeh long, but not far,
Thursday last night to Menquatin. Thence a little in the
morning to Foqace where I tried to buy the
iron fetter of? a ten month’s baby. The young mother sold it to me
for a piastre, but she could not take it off without hurting the poor,
little thing, so the bargain fell through. These are made by the
blacksmith and are in vogue. Moorgaan tells me his boy has them.
\Ve passed F eshn in the evening.

Friday At the Abadeeyeh of Salah Pacha, dead these
Deceméer 23, 1887 ﬁfteen years, a white old Turk from Tabreez
was hospitable, and thence six miles, Nefady
donkey-boyed me to Magaga, where I found a letter from Lottie
from Alexandria; I was glad to know that they had landed; this was
my ﬁrst news, and telegraphed them I was waiting for them.
Nefady found a boat to come back with for thirty cents and we dis-
charged the donkeys. The Rais had orders to come on, but didn’t;
he waited for wind and hoisted sail only when we were within a
quarter of a mile, after four o’clock. So they had to work in the moon-
light till ten to reach Magaga and he has another bad mark. On the
way to Magaga, fellow-travellers told me that there were tessweem‘
at the Abadeeyeh. The place looked most unlikely, but one ought
always to ask. Now I am going up to the train and if they come, I
shall mail this without further note. If not, I shall write more.

MAGAGA \Ve had gathered on the platform Pilot, part of
December 24, 1887 the crew, foremost Oorooshwan and Nefady,
and three saddled donkeys; for the boat is near a

mile from the station. The train came in on the minute and I began
to look for them through the dust which shrouded windows and pas-
sengers. But it was Oorooshwan who found them, and they slowly
came forth from this premature burial. Nobody ever was so deep in

 

1. Arabic for photographic plates.

450

