[CHAPTER THREE

Wednesday I took another rest while M. Maspero went with
Feéruary 14, 188 3 all the rest to Karnak. I studied Brugsch’s
astronomical inscriptions, enlarged the Map of
the Tombs of Sheikh Ab del Goornah and indexed the seventy odd
Tombs of which Champollion gives some account. Wilkinson’s is a
good map, but no mortal knows where to ﬁnd any particular tomb on
it, except half a dozen of the show ones. I want to put the names of
the proprietors on the map and hope to begin it this year. A soldier
boat has come up and the big Cook boat has come down, Mr. Mar-
quand in it from the Second Cataract, and Luxor is lively to-night.
The Bishop of Limerick’s daughter was taken to the hotel on a
stretcher, she is so weak with dysentery. Lefébure has worked alone
since I saw him. I fear his failure to inspire the scholars of the French
School with sufficient esprit de corp: to make them work with him
will prove fatal to the school. The government ought to ask what has
become of the extra money spent on this excursion, and what there
is to Show for it.

GOD’S UPHOLDERBSS We had no Valentine Party yesterday and I
Thursday know not if even the good goose doth lay in
Feéruary 15, 1883 the sunshine of Egyptian February. But I
took a rest and studied over the text we (Dora

and Zoe and I) copied. It had not escaped De Rougé,l Maspero’s pre-
decessor in the College de France, but I now am able to get some-
thing more out of it. It is specially interesting to me as throwing light
hitherto unsuspected, on the highest religious ofﬁce performed by a
woman. The God’s wife, “God’s upholderess,” who was usually the
Sultana or a Princess Royal, with the high priest of a Nome, upbore
its god, probably his statue, in solemn procession, and this in the
great solemnities when the statue was uncovered. Ordinarily the god
was in a naos and invisible to mortal eyes. He was then borne by
priests and the highest ofﬁcers of the realm outside of the King’s
family. I saw Mohammed Moohassib and the few antiquities he has
this year. Mohammed told me how Aly Moorad’s brother married
his sister (his brother had another father and his sister another
mother) and how when his own father died he put his hand into Aly

 

I. de Rouge. "Etude sur quelques monuments du régne de Tahraka." in “Mélanges d'archéologie égyp-
tienne et assyrienne.” Paris. vol. I. 1872. pp. 14—17.

216

