[CHAPTER FOUR

This morning I went over to Karnak, and learned, what has not
yet been explained, that the God of Light, Shoo, owes one of the
ways in which he is hieroglyphed, to his Twin Persons, the Sun and
Moon. Hence two cartouches, which Brugsch once told me “meant
Shoo, he didn’t know why,” may be translated the Twin-Personed
or the Duality. And this is explained in good round terms on the
Propylon of Khonsoo, in a text which Brugsch published twenty
years ago.1 I did not see it except “by looking in this stone.” I com-
pared the famous treaty between Ramses II and the Khetaﬁ the quar-
ter which Mariette did not cover and then copied the bit of chapel
which Maspero has discovered this winter.3 It is in front of the Great
Temple towards the river not far forward of the later Ptolemaic
Pylon, and bears the name of Hakor and his successor Psamut, of the
Twenty-ninth Dynasty. It is this last who built so many of the little
storehouses of the temple which lie to the south of the Sacred Lake.
The great storehouses of the House of Ammon, whose seal you have
used, were behind the Ramesseum; Koorsheedt has just found a clay
seal as big as my two ﬁsts which would ﬁt the mouth of an amphora
and which has painted on it in blue on a white ground “Wine of the
Ammon-House.”4 This is conclusive to Maspero but Aboo Gamb told
me Saturday that such seals were found not there where the great
vaults are, but to the north, where he pointed out another crude
brick construction. Let us remember to look this up next year.

LUXOR . . . . You criticize Bridgeman’ 3 Turkish

March 24, I884 baby’s color. In fact, the Turks I have seen are not

darker than Frenchmen. I know not the color of

the pure blood, but what we see has been much whitewashed with

Circassian. I don’t believe it will hurt the sale of Miss Gardner’s pic-

tures to have the public believe with Dannat that they cannot be
told from her master’s.

1. H. Brugsch. “Recueil de monuments égyptiens." vol. I. Leipzig. 1862. pl. XXXVIII and p. so where
”propylones au nord "should be read “propylones au sud."

a. Treaty—11cc S. Langdon and A. H. Gardiner. “The Treaty of Alliance between Hattusili. King of the
Hittites. and the Pharaoh Rameses ll of Egypt” in "Journal of Egyptian Archaeology," vol. VI. 1920,
913- 179—305-

3. G. Maspero. "Découverte d'un petit temple .1 Karnak” in "Recueil de travaux," vol. VI. 1885. p. 20;
G. Daressy. “La Chapelle de Psimaut et Hakoris a Karnak" in "Annales du Service des Antiquités." vol.

XVIII. 1918. pp. 37—48.
4. Clay seal, see G. Maspero. "Guide to the Cairo Museum." Cairo, 1910. p. 277.

296

