[CHAPTER TEN

£749. And extras unknown. The Professor would give the £650 if the
Haggi would buy a new tow—rope and put wire gauze slides in the
twenty-four windows. The Haggi thought the tow-rope reasonable
but would have nothing to do with the mosquito things. Had he not
voyaged in her these many years without them? The suggestion that
my boat was worth more than his made him a foot taller with indig-
nation. A noble skeleton.

Monday Sayce this morning sent down to him acceptance
December I, 1890 of his terms; he gets nothing off but the tow-rope.
Unless he thinks of many alterations he will be
able to sail with us. Abdoo has just come in and made a dead set for
ﬁve pounds a month. He says he cannot go for four and a half
Pounds. Then I tell him I shall take another at four pounds. He says
that Hassan Speke has an American family, Ijudge the Laimbeers by
his description and that Haggi Khamees has gone to so much expense
to suit a party which then took another boat that he is obliged to sell.
Hassan has come in and wants me to see his contract to—morrow morn-
ing. He has four men, Americans. I felt a little hand in mine. Looking
down it was little Miss VVright’s; she and her mother go up on Ram-
.re: the Great to-morrow. Mrs. Wright hopes you will not forget her
when you come to Sioot.

Friday Alas, the Professor’s purchase of the Phi/ave,
December 5, 1890 which seemed so certain that we have been
planning all sorts of improvements has fallen
through; the earnest money is paid back and the week’s work is lost.
Haggi Khamees, having put his property in the hands of his younger
children to spite his eldest son it is said, refused to give security that
there were no liens on the boat and the Professor dared not take it
without. The elder Simaika, who is in the Mortgage department of
the Mixed Court was able to help us considerably. We learned that
while there is no record of mortgages on dahabeeyehs they still exist.
He is now ﬁguring about a new boat, but loses this winter on the
river. I still hope that a boat will turn up. \Vhatever it may be it is to
be named Ishtar, the cuneiform form of the Goddess Ashtaroth or
Astarte.

S72

