NOVEMBER 1886 TO APRIL 1887]

studying in it. Mr. Insinger went on ahead to Sioot, while I stopped
in Beni Hassan to correct a long hieroglyphic text there. The Ger-
mans are with us and we spend most of our evenings together. At
Sioot we hope to ﬁnd Insinger’s steam engine placed in his boat and
he ready to go on with us.

The family seem very happy in this life. The weather has been
warm enough to be out without an overcoat except some dewy
nights. It will compare favorably with our ﬁnest summer weather,
though more invigorating. There is no need for thin clothing yet. I
ﬁnd this rather a warm winter thus far. Everybody’s health is excel-
lent. The elder German girl . . . . coughs no more, but is as busy
sketching sailors as Victor would like to be. Victor alternates this
with “still life” pictures. He ennobles his subject, but preserves a
resemblance and it is curious to see how much he can make these
darkies look like Greeks and Romans and like themselves also.

The Germans have hired the boat I made an offer for but did not
buy and Lottie is very thankful we have this; it seems so much more
substantial. The other bends beneath the weight of a man walking on
deck; it is comparatively light timbered. For which cause it is lighter
in the water and sails better in a light wind, while ours being stable
can stand a heavier wind. As we have had only one day of good wind,
they thus far have generally had the advantage. But we manage to
keep along.

7anuary 12, 1887 We are at Menkabad ﬁve miles from Sioot,
though much more by river. The Germans are
going on donkeying, we stay at home.

SoonAo After dallying in the bends of the river below
Saturday Sioot we reached that place with a capital wind
7ammry 15, 1887 the day before yesterday at ten. It had raised so
much sand in the air that we could do nothing
but get supplies and were off at three; we should have started at one,
but for a breakfast in town, which cost us a delay of ten hours in a
bend of the river and a loss of thirty miles before next noon. The
Germans had been enterprising enough to lay in their supplies at
Sioot the day before, coming three or four miles by land from where
we were below and so went on and left us far behind.

419

