FEBRUARY 1884. TO MAY 1884]

Thurxday We left Keneh at dawn again, having loaded
March 27, I884 steamer and Aly Moorad’s boat with goalie/:5 and
jars of Keneh make; for everybody on board sup-
plies himself for the year; and with the boat in tow as yesterday we
reached Belianeh about noon. It was rather warm and only toward
night did I care to take a walk through the town. The Masperos vis-
ited again the Coptic church. The Daira gentlemen dined with us
again, Mr. Kelly somewhat fatigued with his Denderah excursion.

Friday At eight o’clock we set out for Abydos. The Mas-
Marclz 28, 1884' peros had been very busy during the night with the
little kangaroos they had brought from the church,

and eighty-one dead Christian bodies had gone to swell the list of
Coptic martyrs. It was a real dragonnade. I have not seen one for a
month. I started a little in advance of the rest so as to see better and
have only my own dust, and I took a cross cut which saved me a mile
in getting to the great temple. Baudry and Bourgoin had gone over
the night before, slept at Seleeb’s house, and were there, Bourgoin
taking paper stamps. The art of this temple is so ﬁne and the objects
are so varied that one may here make a better art collection than al-
most anywhere else. I compared the cloth of the sacred colors of
which the King makes offering in each of the six arched rooms, the
actual color with its hieroglyphic name. The white cloth was colored
white and the cm: was of the same red as the ﬂesh of men. But the
waz, which I had supposed would be green was in one case red and in
another yellow, the same yellow as the ﬂesh of the women and god-
desses. I went with the rest to old blind Seleeb’s to dinner and we
rested long there in the heat of the day. Finally I went back to the
great temple and stayed till five o’clock noting the twenty-four bas—
reliefs in the front and rear of the Pillar Hall of Ramses II. I could
see-in nearly every instance some good reason why each separate
scene was put in its own place and none other. That is what I want to
get at, the thought of the man who planned the temple. Then
through a murky heat which in other climes would have portended a
terrible thunderstorm, I came alone to Belianeh. Said who had
found little except a rather ordinary stele, had already started with
that. The long Mohammed had put my saddle on a donkey which I

299

