NOVEMBER 1890 TO MAY 1891]

I have my ropes right, the mast and yard in place, the deck and
hall oakumed and puttied up and the paint on board; it will begin to
be put on tomorrow. Dr. Grant introduced his new wife, the late Miss
Gibson, with large whitish face quite smiling, Tuesday. The daughter
looks better than when we saw her in New York. Mr. 81 Mrs. Watson
were there, back from America and now the head of the Mission. The
photograph of the Seven Years Famine Stele had prominent place.
Oculist Lansing is well enough to work. His medical brother has
brought over his Arabic professor brother, nervously affected. They
think of moving out of the Mission building, deemed unhealthy. Sir
Evelynl would like Grébaut to come and assent to the appointment
of some English inspectors of the Ancient Monuments; otherwise
they will take them away from the Directorship of the Museum. If he
chooses to appoint them, they will report to and be under him
nominally.

Monday I have been jogging along with my work; the
December 8, 1890 painting is two-thirds done, greener than I
meant for the man put all the green into one-

third of the white required and had put it on before I saw it. The
deeper the color, the more it pleases the Egyptian eye. I have just
been to the S itte S ekkeen (Six Knives) near the Tombs of the Mam-
looks and bought of a weaver cut out of the loom, cotton duck
enough for another breadth on each of my old sails, and the brass
door handles and watercocks are getting nickeled. Adams S. Hill,
who used to be with me on the Tribune, afterwards and perhaps now
Professor Hill of Harvard, is here, white haired and bearded, shriv-
eled so that I knew him only by his manner, a little cockey. He intro-
duced me to his friend Mr. Lathrop, lawyer of Boston, who with his
party six in all, went on board Cook’s Osiris‘to-day for three months
and nine hundred pounds. Hassan Speke started to-day with the
11711412 and four young Americans, two Washingtons, one Bishop and
one Emmons, who reminded me of his trip in the Germanic to Liver-
pool in 1882 with Zoe and me. He sat with us at the Doctor’s table
and we had a hilarious voyage. Their three months is to cost them

ﬁve hundred pounds. The Professor has to-day telegraphed an offer

 

1. Sir Evelyn Baring. Lord Cromer.

S73

