[CHAPTER FOUR

village Said brought me an ancient earring, gold with three pendant
pearls he had bought of a woman, and some small things besides
stones with Greek and Coptic inscriptions which Maspero was glad
to have for the Museum. Among a pile of stones hauled out for
building many of which showed the cartouche of Ramses II, I de-
tected one, a cubit long, which had on both ends, showing that it
came from a temple, texts of the Heretic King Amenophis IV.l It had
probably been brought from Tell el Amarna for Ramses II’s temple
here and I recommended that it be taken to the Museum, but Mas-
pero thought it hardly worth while. Said brought me a coin of
Hadrian here and a half silver one of Nero, and a little black Cyno-
cephalus reminds me of the City of Thoth which we are to visit to-
morrow morning while this will be on its way to you.

A Cook boat went up while we were at dinner, the last of the sea-
son, which this year includes three; two years ago there were a dozen.

Saturday Yesterday morning we went over to Schmoo-
February 16, I884 nayn by the railway of the Daira Sanieh. We
went last year, all save Maspero, but as we don-

keyed from there to Toonah el Gebel, we had no time for the ruins of
the ancient City of Thoth. And indeed but little remains besides the
immense mounds of decayed city which cover more than a square
mile, and a dozen admirable granite pillars which could not be used
for the sugar works of Rodah. The exquisite marble columns and the
beautiful walls, which adorn the Description dc? ['Eg’ryyn‘e,2 could be
made into lime and are no more. A few only are preserved in the
mosque and they are very well worth seeing. I may be able to send
you a photograph of them. After our visit to the village, a large por-
tion of the population convoyed us and indeed it was a caravan to
see. Several of the hollows in the mounds are thick with houses and
palms and the views of these are wonderfully picturesque. We were
back at ten A. M. The Greek merchant, Volta, again invited me to
see the colossal head he had at his house in Mellawee, but we steamed
past it and the Colossus on the Sledge and Amarna where my friend
Hillaleeyeh would have offered me cakes and we might have opened

 

I. See A. Gayct. loc. cit... p. 55.
2. "Description de l'Egypte." Paris. 1822. Atlas. vol. IV. pl. L-LII.

266

