NOVEMBER 1885 TO MAY 1886]

Smith (I say little because it is the other who seems the elder and to
have the toothy wife, so overj awed that she does not cover her upper
teeth even when eating), and I, explained that these captains were
accustomed to have surgeons on board who, like themselves, were
men of no education; that he had read all Shakespeare and Byron
and Thackeray and some of Wordsworth and thought the ﬁnest of all
poetry was the “Irish Melodies” of Thomas Moore, which he always
carried with him; that this would be his last voyage; that the Signor
commandante had evidently been taking too much wine; that he
himself could not take coffee or tea; that he limited himself to a litre
of wine and a litre of beer a day and so he felt safe. We thought if he
felt safe, he smelt quite unsafe, and justiﬁed a previous conﬁdence of
the Captain that he had taken a whole bottle of Marsala before
dinner.

The two-turreted vessel between us and the bare green island Vido,
is H. B. M.’s Thzmderer, and little she (or he or it) looks the nine
thousand tons she measures. She must be mostly under water. May

she fulﬁll her destiny.

HOTEL ABBATT On the whole a weakening voyage. We passed
ALEXANDRIA down by Ulysses’ island Sunday night and the
Wednesday next day I was not studious. The Greco (the
December 30, 1885 northeast wind) was ﬁerce and when we got out
of the lee of Greece towards evening, they say it
was rough. At any rate the Minerva split her mainsail and when her
little Captain sent for me to breakfast next morning, I found him
with wounds on brow, cheek and lip and a black eye. He said he had
had a fall. I quite escaped consciousness of this gale, though I had to
go out a dozen times during its alleged continuance. Such is the
advantage of minding one’s own business. I believe all the other
passengers were seasick; the doctor said he felt nausea. At midnight
in the lee of Candia my choleratic attack subsided with the sea. But
it left my digestion weak and my head much more susceptible than
before. I endured Tuesday, talking a little with the Italian doctor
who came on at Corfu, and who told me that some of the Rebels who
burned Alexandria were impaled. One asked that his shirt might be
opened that he breathe freer, another asked for a glass of water.

335

