FEBRUARY 1884. TO MAY 1884]

Sunday Maspero’s brother and a friend are up today and he

April 6, 1884 has gone with them to what we saw yesterday. I have

made my map of the graves and written. Mme asks

me to thank you very much for the Vie Madame you sent her. Said

has heard of something at Abooseer and has gone for it. The Sakkara

folks yesterday were gloating over the killing of all the English in the
Soodan.

BEDRESHEYN This morning we set out at nine for a two and a half
Monday hours donkeying to some graves, a mile south of the
April 7, 1884 “Black” pyramid of Dashoor. This pyramid is of
brick and its walls have fallen away so as to have
about its central mass precipices a hundred feet high. Sheikhs Rooby
and Mohammed el Haggazy went with us three the long way, ﬁrst to
Sakkara and then southwards along the hem of the desert, which they
call the Gebel, that is the “Mountain.” As my donkey boy said strik-
ing the even plain of hard coarse sand over which we were marching:
“this dust is the Gebel.” On the way Rooby and I rode a little ahead
and he was interested to know about my family in Paris and my
mother in America and if she were well and strong and how far it was,
and how many Americans there were. He was surprised to learn that I
had no feddans and that we had no Nil; but depended on water from
the sky. If I had no feddans I must have a great deal of money, how
many millions. He could hardly believe that I was not rich and had
not even one million. He told me it was he who ﬁrst discovered hiero-
glyphics in a pyramid (that of Pepi) and when he went to tell Mari-
ette, who was sick in bed, Mariette said it must be a mastaba be—
cause there was no such thing as a pyramid with hieroglyphics. He
called to an acquaintance on the way to give us some khyar from
the ﬁeld where he was working for the Cairo market, and was amazed
to ﬁnd that we had the same cucumbers in America. They are early
now and I found women at the station yesterday selling them at
seven cents a pound. The Arabs eat them entire and without salt,
and they sell largely to the third class passengers when the Sioot
train arrives.

At eleven-thirty we reached the ﬁrst grave, that of a king’s grand-
son, Master of King Snefroo’s pyramid, called the Sunrise, of the

305

