NOVEMBER 1885 TO MAY 1886]

Ramleh as heretofore; have seen Judge Cookson and Judge and Mrs.
Barringer, these last at great length. They had much to talk and
many callers, among them Commander Sigsbee of the Kearsarge
who thinks they may be over at the Peiraeus before long. He is just
beginning to discover that the British ofﬁcer is not necessarily a gen-
tleman. Judge Barringer has bought of the Syrian the great silicious
sandstone hawk on which I saw the false inscription years ago. It is a
very handsome museum piece and can be mounted so as to cover the
counterfeit hieroglyphics.

I have not yet bought my ticket, so that if there be a declaration
of war on this Independence Day I need not go but we have no
telegram of it yet, and I have faith in Comanos’ judgment.

Judge Kinsman hasjust left me and it is ten o’clock. I need to sleep
tonight. Daninos-Bey has called and Middlemass has sent me a let-
ter, telling me that the stone he sent me the copy of, is not here but
a hundred miles away in the desert; so I shall have to give up seeing
it. I have found a little book in which English is spelled in Greek
letters as it is pronounced. This gives a very good idea of how the
Greeks pronounce their own letters. Ditto for Greek and Arabic,
which is still odder. My boat sails at ten to-morrow and I must go
early. So good night. The Brindisi boat sails with this at the same
tlme.

ALEXANDRIA I said good-bye to Judge Kinsman, not yet risen after
Wednesday his nightly vigil, and, with my things, went to the
flpri/ 7, 1886 Ofﬁce of the Khedivial Steamboat Co. Here Igave a
hundred thirty francs to one man, received a ticket

with Arabic writing from a second; had the French part ofit ﬁlled up
by a Cockney on whose plan I selected a cabin next the pantry but
the entrance to which was quite cut off therefrom; got it sealed by a
fourth who uses the ball of his little ﬁnger as a permanent ink-pad;
passed the customhouse without much notice, and was rowed to the
ﬁfteen hundred ton steamer the S harkeeyelz, which being interpreted
is the Oriental. The big window of Cabin 25—27 was wide open, but
what was my horror to ﬁnd that its inner walls were lattice, and that
air ﬂowed freely to and fro between it and pantry and salon and all
the other cabins. There was another cabin unoccupied; I forestalled
it in case nobody should come with a ticket for it; but somebody did.

387

