NOVEMBER 1888 TO JULY 1889]

in order. There is much more there to copy but it is hard to get at.
The Sultana tried to follow us but could not turn the sharp corner,
went up the river to a sandy beach, took down her big yard and
came down at sunset. We tied up at noon, four days from Luxor,
under the great boulder which bears the names of Unas and Entefaa.l
Mr. Albright’s boat is a hundred yards north of us. He came up in
three days, and stopped an hour for Hassan Speke to visit Mr.
Fiske while the Saki was taking her twenty-four hours’ nap on the
sand. We met her just above Edfoo and Mr. Fiske shouted to me
something about twenty-four hours.

Sunday The men ﬁtted the boat to go down stream and

February 3, 1889 ten went away to their homes, only three or four

hours’ walk. The Reis leaves us his brother Sala-

heem and Aly, our cook boy of last year with our three Egyptian

sailors, Nefady, Oorooshwan and Mahmood Ahmed, and Soroor the

black slave, and little, now big, Mustapha, who makes the yard bend
when he goes up. The Lefevres tea-ed with us.

February 4, 1889 We went over to the Deyrz, the wonderful old
four-acre building, full of all sorts of home—made
architecture. It is surprising to see how easily they threw up twelve-
foot arches and ground arches with sun dried mud bricks six inches
thick. What amused me most was a niche of alphabetical Saints.
The names beside their heads were after two gone: HAI‘A,
HAAA, HAEA and so on through the alphabet, there being
three destroyed after HAcpA; as if we were to call twenty-six
saints, Elaa, Elba, Elca, Elda, Elea and so on down to Elza3. A Sacro-
sanct way of teaching the Coptic alphabet, and needed, too, for
most of the monkish scribbling is in Arabic here, a larger proportion
than I have seen in any other Coptic Deyr. The Albrights came to
say good-bye again this evening.
1. W. M. Flinders Petric, "A. Season in Egypt." 1887. London. 1888. pl. X11.
2. Ugo Manneret de Villard, "Il Llonastero di S. Simeone presso Aswﬁn.” vol. I. Milano. 1927.
3 . "Catalogue des Monuments ct Inscriptions de i'Egypte antique.” vol. 1. Vienna. 1894. p. 134. This in-

scription is unknown in Jean Clédat. “Les Inscriptions de Saint-Simeon" in ”Recueil de Travaux." vol.
XXXVII, 1915, pp. 41-57.

513

