[CHAPTER FIVE

Philo is still enchanted with Luxor; he will come up to Assuan
probably while we are there. We expect the European mail and
Morel, Maspero’s friend, whom I have seen many times in Paris, at
noon, and then we shall start with Insinger’s dahabeeyeh in tow.

Some days ago Maspero announced that he had discovered a
stairway in the mid rear room of the Temple here. He showed me the
indications after a little digging. He was quite sure. I saw that they
were not, and told him so, giving my reasons, which he did not ac-
cept. The digging continued and we say no more about it. The dig-
ging has stopped and the stairway is not yet in sight. He supposed it
such a stairway as we ﬁnd in Philae, going down from the temple to
the river.

I think I told you that the big foot at the Pylon of Horus in Kar-
nak had lost its least big toe since I saw it. I spoke to M. Maspero
about it and he said it was so when he ﬁrst saw it; that he had
thought years ago of taking it to Boolak, but this mutilation deter-
mined him not to. I spoke about it to the Karnak rei's Dyab. At ﬁrst
he said he knew nothing about it. After two days he told me that the
toe was cut off ten months ago by a man who went immediately to
Suez; he knew it only ten days afterwards when the man was gone.
Since then he has found the man’s name, Ibraheem Hamid, and that
he is expected back in two months.

To ERMENT With our letters, ..... and Morel on board, we
bade adieu to Luxor and the assembled Luxorians
and are just arriving at Erment and its sugar smoke.

..... I wish you were all here with me in this delightful air.
It is true that Maspero manages to have a cold most of the time, but
I cannot see how he does it; I cannot get a cold; nor have I been able
to weigh any less yet. I weighed a lot of Egyptians the other day and
was astonished to ﬁnd them so light, they averaged a hundred and
ten to a hundred and ﬁfteen pounds. My donkey-boy l\-'Iohamn1ed,
nearly as tall as I now, weighed only ninety. They have small bones
and almost no flesh on them.

I never understood that Miss Batcheller read Arabic; Toda, who
lived with her father nearly a year in the Grand Hotel and in an
362

