NOVEMBER 1885 T0 MAY 1886]

which starts to go down under the Mediterranean and a great pave-
ment of alabaster, covered with cement and brick! I guessed it might
be a pious, humble Christian way of utilizing Pagan splendors; as
they have plastered over the bas-reliefs of the Isis temple at Philae
with Nile mud. The idol was set up and the photographs taken and
the dinner eaten and especially drunken. Mrs. Galloway took me in
charge for this and I drank a very little ale from a very large pewter
pot and then when everybody was busy Lieut. E. W. Sturdy of the
Quinnebang and I made a plan of the Fort and went down to study
the idol’s inscriptions. I was rewarded for staying over by ﬁnding
that the statue was made for the great temple at Heliopolis and
probably brought thence to ornament a Greek temple. So nothing
geographical as to Canopusl was to be expected. This from the side
inscription we could not get at Friday. Now we had found four tem-
ples, that of the granite columns, of the stucco columns, of the ala—
baster pavement and of the idol; which might be the Temple of Sera—
pis, upon which Strabo wrote that respectable men believed and
went themselves to sleep in it or sent others to sleep for them, that
they might have its wonderful cures and its oracle dreams. Mrs.
Whately suggested that somebody might sleep in each of the four
and so determine. But after playing hide and seek in the magazine
among riﬂed shells everybody scampered off the mile to the train
and got there an hour too soon. As we came back Mrs. Middlemass
was kind enough to ask me to let them know as soon as I returned
and Consular Judge Cookson, who is a good Greek'scholar, invited
me to lunch with him and said we would look over the Greek authors
on Canopus and Naucratis, which he advised me to visit on my way
to Cairo. But when he got home he found that his closest and oldest
friend was dead and he went straight out to Ramleh again to see the
widow of Sheldon Amos and to-day again to his funeral. But he tele—
graphed to Naucratis and found that Mr. Gardner2 was there ready
to receive me and came and told me how lonely he was in his studies;
he had no soul here he could talk them over with.

Tuerday, 6:30 A. M. Off for Cairo. Rain has spoiled Naucratis.
yanuary 5, 1886

 

1. See J. Faivre. “Canopus Menouthis. Aboukir." Alexandria. 1918.
2. Ernest A. Gardner. “Naukratis.” Part II. 1885—1886. London. 1888.

339

