OCTOBER 1881 TO APRIL 1882]

If Mrs. Sexton comes, she will meet a warm reception.
The thermometer in my cabin goes to about 85° every afternoon
now. But I ﬁnd this warmth not too much to work under. It is cool
and comfortable in the temples. Saturday and Sunday and to-day I
have been to Karnak. The old India Scotchman with white hair, Mr.
Baillie Watson, and his younger, but I suspect, bald, wife whom we
saw in the hotel where we were in Nice, amused me the other day by
showing me as some of their purchases two scarabees, on which I
read “Martha” and “Margaret.” I told them I thought they were
very good, and they are as specimens of Yussoof’s work. He is mak-
ing some for me now1 and very likely next year he will be selling all
your names and Maspero’s to people who accept them as of the
Twelfth or Nineteenth Dynasties. I suspected that Margaret would
make Martha Hagens a present, and found I was right next day.
. The Arabs tell me I ought to stay after Maspero goes
down, for then a lot of things from the Tombs will be put on the
market, but I think it will be quite late enough. And last evening I
saw offered three ﬁgurines of one of the ladies now in Boulak,
Madame N est-Khonsoo, about whom Maspero has unearthed a long
inscription on the Pylon of Horus, copying which gave him his sci-
atics.2 These and some ﬁgurines of King Pinozem show that not all
the things in the Tomb were given up. But as three to ﬁve thousand
ﬁgurines were, Maspero does not complain. Our lady of the 170th,
Mme. M ..... , about whose diamonds and gossip I wrote you from
Cairo, made Luxor happy by buying all the unsaleable antiquities
which have accumulated during the past ﬁve years, paying some
say as much as eight hundred pounds for them. If they are sent from
the Customs House to Boulak, I am sure that there is nothing Mas-
pero will want among them. And the vendors are happy that Maspero
is here, otherwise, they say, the soldier guardians of the Temples
would come down upon them and make them divide.
The boat which takes this leaves very few people In the hotels, less
than twenty; there are ﬁve dahabeeyehs here, two American; it is
near the end of the season. Mustapha is expecting the Prince of
Wales’ boys.

1. A few ocarabe with the names of members of Wilbour's family are exhibited in the Brooklyn Museum
with the papers of Charles Edwin Wilbour.

a. G. Maspero. "Notes our quelques points de grammaire et d’histoire.” § XL, in "Zeitschrift fUr agyp-
tische Sprache.” vol. XXI. 1883. pp. 72-75.

141

