FEBRUARY 1884 T0 MAY 1884]

to greet me and others on the bank who dared not come on board.
I went into the Hotel. Mme. Auber had gone to Cairo, but George
would have my things done tomorrow night. They had of guests
eleven men and Miss Woodhouse. I looked over their papers and
when I came out found at the gate Abd—el-Megeed and old Kaleefeh
waiting for me. The Bedaween are bad, Kaleefeh says, and he had
not been to the oasis this fall. But by the little light left he is as
tough and leathery as ever. They told me about a Bab at Gebeleyn
with a lot of mummies in it which the Mudeer of Esneh was guard-
ing until Maspero should come.1 No travellers this year and only a
very few deaths from cholera this summer, none of my acquaintance.
The Postmaster gave me ﬁve Egyptian Gazette: by which I see that
Gordon, the great enemy of the Slave Trade, has recognized it and
the Mahdi; it will do him no good; they will accept it as proof of his
weakness ...... Aly Moorah, our Consul, has aged visibly,
but he seemed very glad to see me. He and they all ask when I am
coming in dahabeeyeh, with the Sitt and the Ibn and the Benat!“
Aly asked too with more interest, I think, about Mrs. Moulton and
why she did not come. I shall take him her watch-chain tomorrow.
His servant, Achmet, seemed very sorry that the Sitt had forgotten
him; she sent him something you remember by post from Cairo, but
gave it to the German porter of Shepheard’s Hotel to post, and he re-
packed it, to suit himself, taking out a ﬁfty dollar watch and other
things besides. Poor Khaled is still trying to get his thirteen feddans
and thinks the Mudeer at Keneh a very bad man; he has spent the
twelve pounds Mme. (now Lady) M ..... gave him for worthless
things two years ago, and the papers have piled up a cubit high but
he does not get the land. There is one dahabeeyeh here, but it is that
of the Cairo Consul of France and hardly counts. The Consuless is a
daughter of Spanish Consul-General Ortega of whom I wrote you
from Cairo. All the houses, I hear, are out of the Temple here except
the Sheykh’s and Mustapha Aga’s and the French house and this
last is now to be traded for land on which to build another. Musta-
pha’s turn is coming. The old man folds up closer and closer when he

 

I. On the necropolis of Gebelein. see G. Maspero. “Premier rapport sur les fouilles exécutées en Egypte
de 1881 a 1885" in “Bibliotheque Egyptologique." vol. 1. Paris. 1893. pp. arr-2:4.
2. Sit: = Mrs.
Ibn pa son
banal 2 daughters.

273

