[CHAPTER THREE

BEDRESHAYN We went to the pyramid of Nefer-Ka-Ra Pepi,

Saturday compared copies already made and used His

yanuary 20, 1883 Majesty’s sarcophagus for our lunch table. I

bought some things of Fodi, Mustapha and

Bayoomi with the help of Said who had come over from his Kafr-el-
Haram.

Sunday To-day Bazil came up and went with us to the
747mm”)! 21, 1883 Pyramid of the Elder Pepi,1 whose lunch table
was not so good; it is in fragments. Of our copy—
ists Maspero, Piehl and Bouriant are all near-sighted; so the table
fell to my share—to be ﬁnished on our return. Said had found more
monuments in Sakkara and Mitrahinny. A stone was brought from
the Sheikh’s to Bayoomi’s from the Tomb of Ptahmes, which they
have been in prison for robbing. A Saitic pastophore, whose foot Fodi
showed me at his house, I had not time to stop at Mitrahinny to see,
they kept me waiting so long in Sakkara. I galloped home to the
steamer in the dusk on the same white donkey of Said Mohammed
that I had last year. This Said would like to get married but lacks
the twenty guineas needfull, ten for the bride’s father and ten to set
up housekeeping with. I talked with him about the Sheikh’s daughter
who brought me water for my dinner two years ago; he said he
would have to pay ﬁfty guineas for her. My Said wanted very much
to go on with me, but as we are to stop a month in Luxor to take out
the sarcophagus of Nitocris2 from her deep, long tomb, we thought
it better he should not go. So I sent a good-bye to him to Gemeeleh
and to Farrakh. It has rained considerably these two days and the
paths are quite slippery; M. Maspero said his donkey—man actually
held him on the saddle all the way home to-day. While copying,
standing on the ﬁve thousand year old sarcophagus I was quite be—
sprinkled by this un—Egyptian Osiris of the skies. You remember I
have told you how Pepi’s pyramid has been burgled from the top
sheer down into the Golden Chamber where he had himself laid
away in vain. Some fragments of his wrappings torn ofl~ by the old
robbers, not us, are all that remains to be seen of his ugly black
mummy.

 

I. Pepi I—Pepi Merenra.
2. See letter of March 13. 1882.

I94

