 

 

 

 

NOVEMBER 1889 TO MARCH 1890]

At dusk the wind blew us against a shoal place; two oars were
broken and three hours spent in getting off. We have been amusing
ourselves with the Nile voyage of Dr. Richardson who in 1817 came
up with the Earl of Belmore, called in the book “The Noble Travel-
ler.” He does not approve of Egypt; there is nothing here like the
homes of the Country Squires and the people are “lubberly.”

SIOOT Two gay steamers, anti-Cook, met us on our slow

March 14, 1890 way to Sioot where we found letters several, from

‘ Paris and Prospect Hill also. We were much
pleased that Mother could go to Washington.

March 15, 1890 I talked away the morning with Santoni and

Seleeb at the Post Oﬂice. Professor Sayce left the
thirteenth. The Mission folk tea-ed aboard and Mrs. Johnseon with
her pretty sixteen-year-old daughter called later; Seleeb in the
evening.

Mare}; 16, 1890 We all except Lottie went to the Virgin’s Convent

Deyr el Adra which I ﬁrst saw last year. I cor-
rected some of the inscriptions which Mr. Grifﬁth has published of
the tombs against which it is built. Linnie had an ill turn and scared
us a little about riding back, but luckily got better, Omar thought,
thanks to the amusing stories he told her in Arabic. Ned made two
pencil drawings to be worked up into pictures of which he has now
thirty or forty. Coming back we saw at Dronka in a walled inclosure
in the great Coptic Cemetary, the monument of Dr. Hogg in Arab
Sultan style, done by our Consul, himself now dead. Omar was at
both funerals; the Consul he said was like a bull and four horses
drew him.

Lottie meantime called on Mrs. Wright and heard the news of the
Nile. The inﬂuenza which we met at Ekhmeem, has reached Luxor;
on one Cook steamer thirty-ﬁve had it. Ramses the Great went on the
sand so hard as to spill the soup in ladies’ laps and tumble the wine
bottles and put out the electric lights amid general consternation
and particular hysterics. Some wanted to go home right away and
kept their beds for two or three days.

563

