OCTOBER 1881 TO APRIL 1882]

pitiful scarabees for which a price was demanded larger than that of
the Cairo shops.

So in -the afternoon we steamed on by El Mensheeyeh1 after which
our steamer is named, intending to reach Belianeh before dark. But
we had to land a soldier at Girgeh and Abd-el-Noor, the Arab Copt
French Consul, recognized M. Maspero and came aboard. After cof-
fee and palaver he insisted that they should go on shore and see him.
I meantime was in this little room. I went up to see what the delay
meant and had only gossiped ten minutes with a sheikh about a nice
little dahabeeyeh, which proved to be the French Consul’s, when
Said came for me; he had found a stele and wanted me to see it, so
we meandered much till we came to the end of the world and there
was a stone without hieroglyphics and apparently of Greek time—a
King and Queen making their manners to Pan and behind him Har—
pocrates and a lion headed goddess.2 This indicated the Ninth Nome
and in fact they said it came from a mile east across the river, Oolad
es-Sheikh. As it 'had no hieroglyphics I did not want it, but I took a
cherub’s head in marble, which M. Maspero says is from a Christian
sarcophagus probably found at Coptos; the Museum has two heads
from the same. Said’s heart was glad when M. Maspero let him pay
twenty—ﬁve francs for the stele and he was able to bring it on board in
triumph. We gave the man, Mahmood Mohammed, paper to take a
cast of another stele he told us of in Mensheeyeh which he will show
us in Luxor a week hence. After dinner we all went to Abd-el-Noor’s
big house and palavered slowly and sleepily till ten since which I
have written this day so as to put it in the box a stone’s throw off
before I sleep. A boat goes down to-morrow and we have come into
the region of the semi-weekly postal boats.

Tuesday We steamed up to Belianeh this morning early
December 27, 1881 and at eight-twenty about, Mme. Rhoné on her
throne and the rest on donkeys, for the Holy

Place of Egypt, the sanctuary where the Sacred Head was adored.
Every man who could afford it, made, on the walls of his tomb, a

 

1. Murray. "Egypt" 1880. p. 432.

2. The stone is published in A. Kama]. "Stéles ptolémaiques et romaines" (“Catalogue du Musée du Caire").
Cairo, 1904-1905. pl. LXVII. no. 22194 and p. 191 with the wrong indication of the provenance as
Gizch. Oolad es—Sheikh is on the east bank a few miles N. E. of Girgeh.

99

