[CHAPTER THREE

gerous, and nothing will result from it, marked with a Bee or a Pear.l
That Bee has stung too many and that Pear was ripe too long ago.

Friday I have just come in from Karnak where Piehl
February 16, 1883 and I have been at work, he on an inscription of
King Takelot2 illegibly printed by Lepsius and I
on the God’s-wife—room and Naville’s pamphlet. The divine wife’s
room has suffered much since Prisse copied it, but I better a few signs
and I get some things Naville did not and sometimes a little sign is of
much importance. A great event has occurred to-day. A dahabeeyeh
has come, and that too towed by a little steamer, so that anteekeh
prospects brighten. Dinner is ready, and the postal boat.

EGYPTIAN ASTRONOMY I ﬁnished Brugsch’s astronomical inscrip-
Saturday tions. He presents texts and translates so
February 17, I883 far as he is able. But he does not attempt to
- tell why these texts occupied these places.
Yet I think this clear. As in the tombs of the Kings all the texts on
the walls, or nearly all, except acts of adoration, tell the story of the
Sun’s passage through the Earthy Night—world from his setting-
death to his rising-resurrection; so the ceilings are devoted to setting
forth the yearly passage through the thirty-six constellation—dekans,
one every ten days, from the beginning of the year round to the be—
ginning of the next, bringing again the resurrection of the Inunda-
tion, the Creator of Egypt. Of these stars there are lists ofrisings and
lists of culminations and pictures of the constellations as they appear
at the time of the New Year. Each has its god; each moon—day its
god, each month its god and all work together to bring about the
daily and monthly and yearly resurrections which to the Egyptians
were a guarantee that their faith was founded on the order of the
Universe. They appear too on the ceilings of temples and there the
rule of the Pharaon is in all manner of ways likened to the regularity
of the Heavenly motions for order and for duration.

I. Allusion to the Royalists and Orleanists.
2. See Porter-Moss. “Topographical Bibliography," vol. II. 1929. p. I3.

218

