NOVEMBER 1885 TO MAY 1886]

ple, it is on the further bank of the Ilissos. I paid my franc for a
front seat. We were shaded by two enormous poplars; we were
youthful in the main, not more than a tenth women and girls. We
watched with breathless interest for two hours the triumphs and
the woes of Belisarius, and we made a noise in the right places. Fore-
stalling sciatica I did not wait to get the last half of my drachma’s
worth, but joined the promenaders along the stream and feasted my
eyes on Greeks and Greek costumes. As I came back past my
N ymph’s Cave, I heard the singers and that they evoked more en-
thusiasm than the blind old general. With the crowd I drifted back
through my Philhellene Street and from my balcony watched the
sunset and the Acropolis and the Athenian stream.

Monday I had started towards the Acropolis two or three
April 12, 1886 times; this morning I shut my eyes absolutely
against distractions and going by the way of the

Hesperides took the upper road north of the famous Hill. As I
neared its northwest corner I noticed the road was loosely ﬁlled with
rough stones, some larger than my head. Suddenly I heard a rattle
above and then the shouts of men. Looking up I saw half a dozen of
these stones shooting down the slope. They were coming so fast that
they did not rebound much sideways. So I put myself in the widest
interval and had the satisfaction of judging rightly; the nearest
passed about three yards on either side. Then the men waited for me
to get around the corner. Outside the entrance a vendor of marbles
pointed me to the Tomb of Socrates, a Christian who was poisoned
by the Athenians because he would not believe in their many gods.
I tried to get from him Socrates’ views on Christ and the Virgin
Mary, but in vain; he was not theological, nor logical. Then I went
in to get my franc’s worth and I never got it better. I came out at
noon with a new conviction, that the Greeks were utterly devout,
that their most precious work was done not to be seen of men, but of
the gods, and in large part, of the gods alone. For if the pediments
of the Parthenon were humanly visible the frieze was practically
hidden, was hidden from any fair View by the architraves and col-
umns of the surrounding colonnade. If you would see more than a
space between two columns, you must stand inside the columns and

391

