[CHAPTERSEVEN

out in this room because there was no draught of air in it, and she
then went out with Dora for a walk. After a while the Rais saw smoke
oozing out at the leaky window. As the candle burned low, the spring
was released and threw the burning wick out and it happened to ﬁnd
the curtain or something else combustible. The room was used as the
clothes room and most of their dresses were hanging in it; of mine
only a pair of pantaloons. Abdool, the pilot said when he opened the
door, he could see nothing for the smoke, but he gathered an armful
of clothing and took it out while others brought water, ﬁve or six
pailsful, and put out the ﬁre. The paint was blistered in the corridor
and a little in my big room opposite. It was quite ruined in this
clothes room and the wood about the window somewhat charred.
But before I came frOm the temple Lottie had had it scraped and
scrubbed, and the carpet washed over which the men had tracked,
and had begun to examine the clothing. They have not a great vari-
ety of clothing left, but will be comfortable. And some old mosquito
curtains hung on the walls of the room have ﬁtted it for its previous
use, now much less needful than before. When we reached Luxor we
found the fame of our ﬁre had preceded us a day. And the ﬁre had
grown.

Insinger left Denderah a day before us but we overtook and passed
him at N egadeh in sight of Pere Samuel’s garden, and next day while
we were tracking along the famous bend of Gamooleh, where we
struggled so hard last year, he appeared in tow of “Puff-puff.” As we
turned the corner and the northwest wind began to carry us, he came
along side and leaving “Puff-puff” to steam on behind, we came neck
and neck spinning along to Luxor. Aly Moorad received us with
twenty-one guns, more or less, and we tied up at our old moorings
across the canal, now about knee deep. We ﬁnd the town agog with
anticipation of Grébaut and what he will do with the anteekeh he has
had sealed up. In a few minutes Abd—el-Megeed and Mohammed
Mohassib and three or four other dealers were on board to see us and
talk it over, and before night Diab and his brother and old Khaleefeh
had come besides the Luxor folk. M. Gayet came in in the evening.
He had left Bouriant in Cairo to come up with Grébaut contrary to
his expectation to come up early and stay at the hotel. This I found
crowded, over eighty people, crammed into room for forty.

458

