[CHAPTER FIVE

look up. If you go down outside the columns, you are too far away
and see only the little stretch between the pillars. . . . . . The
delicate frieze on the Temple of Wingless Victory in which the ﬁg—
ures are scarcely over a foot high, looks off the precipice south and
west into empty air. On the south one may get back two yards to
look up; on the west not at all. In the north portico of the Erech-
theum a portion of the ceiling has fallen and I could study the ex-
quisite ﬁneness of its ornamentation. But in place, this was all lost,
except to my opera-glass.

In the afternoon I went again to the Pantechnikon and began to
copy the Egyptian girl. Bronze she is and tattoed in silver, she
wears a whole Pantheon with hieroglyphic remarks. Maspero has
published her as well as he could from four photographs‘. She will

take time. .

Tuesday I wrote in the morning and then went to the Muse-

ﬂpril 13, 1886 um in which I was rather disappointed. The mar-

bles, mostly fragmentary, require earnest study to

be attractive, and scattered about the ﬂoors, do not draw you

strongly on a ﬁrst, cursory visit. I feel that they will improve on ac-

quaintance. They have too, like the Boolak Museum, the great dis-
advantage of increase, which confuses catalogues.

Wednesday It has rained a little this morning and I have
April 14, 1886 wasted it over Gladstone’s twelve column speech.
He is very diﬂ‘use, but I suppose he knows that he
must say everything over three or four times to get it through the
British head. A step, it seems to me, towards what must come soon or
late, the end of the Kingdom and the making of a great British
Union in which the present colonies shall stand on the same footing
as will the statues of England, Scotland and of Ireland. Either this or,
what I fear, they will all be getting into our ship. Twenty years
hence, when we may have a hundred million of people, it will be
almost impossible for them to keep out. They will not upset us, but
I think they might at times make us seasick.

 

I. G. Maspero. "Statuette égyptienne de bronze incrusté d'argent de la Collection di Demétn‘o." in “Ga-
- zctte archéologique." 1883. pp. 185-189 and pl. XXXIIl-XXXIV.

392

