DECEMBER 1880 T0 APRIL 1881]

was very elaborate, about ﬁfteen courses, and wonderfully good as
the product of an Arab kitchen. The doctor says he is the only Arab
who can either cook or serve a European dinner. The last courses
were enlivened by the music of the place and we went upstairs to the
Fantazeeyeh. One of the danceresses was occasionally seized with
apparently uncontrollable ﬁts of laughter as the dancing went on and
it was some time before I discovered that the cause of it was a big old
Englishman, the huge cavern of whose intent mouth was quite too
much for her. It was very funny, but it was still stranger to me that
she should appreciate it so thoroughly. This old fellow had told artist
Dubois that his brother-in-law was Wolstenholme who made the
Shefﬁeld IXL pocket knives which everybody has had and that he
himself had just lost a servant ninety-four years old who was bap-
tized by John Wesley. An English lady who came with him said that
she did not think respectable women ought to attend F antazeeyehs.
A few minutes afterward she mentioned that this was the second she
had seen. Dr. Dubois who is just down from Wadi Halfa, came in to
see me before dinner; he wants to study hieroglyphics and come again
next winter. His horses in Florence bother him; he had a good time
there last fall; he says young men are very scarce there. He went
down towards Cairo this morning on the last Cook’s steamer.

Friday Last night Abd-el-Megeed came to get me to help
Marc]: [8, 1881 him about a stele he had shown me of Pepi Set—heb.
Luckily I had copied it, because the Set-heb1 festi-
val, the thirty-year festival of the Rosetta stone is ﬁrst discovered
under Pepi in the Sinai VVadys. He had shown it to a Swede who had
declared it false and thrown it in the river. VVhereupon another
Swede, whose card I enclose for the Photo-stamp seen through it,
proposes to pay its value, Abd-el-Megeed having made complaint to
the British Consul Mustapha Aga, his uncle. So my copy and opinion
that it was genuine became of use. It is getting warmer. The ther-
mometer in my room is at 73° this morning; it has stood at 71° for
several days before. Last night I came down to one blanket. The
earth seems a little warmer. Still the weather for the last two weeks
has been the best I have seen here.

I. Pepi Set-heb: this name is an allusion to the commemoration of the so—called Heb-sed festival celebrated
by King Pepi I. The inscription of Pepi l in the “lady Maghareh. Sinai. is now destroyed. See F linders
Petrie. ”Researches in Sinai." London. 1906. p. 174.

59

