OCTOBER 1881 T0 APRIL 1882]

KOOLAH I read hierosl and in the afternoon crossed the
Thursday river in the ferryboat. It took so long there was
F ebruary 9, 1882 no time to go further, but the boatman told me
there were tombs in the mountain on the east side

and they were inscribed. So

Friday Naville and I went. I found the ﬁve tombs I had
February 10, 1882 descried with the little telescope but the only
inscriptions were some very curious scrawls of
animals up on the face of the rock;2 so rude were they that we could
not guess their age. Somebody spent a great deal of time to cut them.
We walked south half way to El Kab and went into the house of
“Mariam,” who had two or three days before brought her consump-
tive sister Erdeena to the boat as many other people are always do-
ing. Much pain in throat and chest, loss of voice, coughing 0’ nights,
and a liquid look in her eyes. I could only advise warm milk, and not
to be out after sunset. Said wished to add wine, but I objected; then
he insisted on tea, but I overruled it, and as we came away the old
dried up mother asked for how many days she was to take the milk. ‘
The Sheikh el beled sent me back on a horse. We met Prince Henry
riding North.

Saturday We spent the morning discussing European poli-
February 11, I882 tics. Naville is disgusted with Swiss republican-
ism. Charmes is well informed and a real
republican. Rhoné and Bouriant are rouge; Brugsch was at the pyra—
mid digging down a slice of the central mass. The Sheikh captured me
and got me into his house where he talked about his rheumatism
which kept him awake nights; I could only tell him to roll himself up
in woolen. ‘

Sunday The Cheap: came down with the S ultaua’: pas-
Fearuary 12, I882 sengers. We had. heard in Luxor that she was
wrecked descending the cataract; indeed they

had to blow her up to clear the way. John Cook, who was up in the

 

I. Hieros—hieroglyphics.
2. Prehistoric carvings frequent in this region. See J. Capart. “Primitive Art in Egypt." Philadelphia.
1905. ﬁg. 161. p. 204.

I31

