[CHAPTER NINE

he will be ready to open to the public the Ancient Empire, covering _
two thirds the space of the old museum and showing many things not
shown before for lack of room.

December 6, 1889 There was a great festival last night at Boolak

and instead of ﬁve painters to-day I ﬁnd but two,
the boss sending word that he is sick but will be well to-morrow. Last
night came Mr. Brunner, with whose family Miss Hughes went
around the world. He said her death was a dreadful blow to her
poor old father.

This morning Mr. Abbot sent me a telegram saying they had not
come, so I suppose there was not room in the Indo-China Steamer.
I must wait ﬁve days more. I got also my ﬁrst letter from Paris, in-
cluding one from Mother, who has sent me a youmal of Commerce.
Very glad am I to hear of her travels and her friends. I spent the fore-
noon in Boolak buying rope, seven sizes for working the new sail and
lifting the anchor.

The other Moosharabeeyeh mirror-frame is started and symmetry
shall be satisﬁed. Painter Mills has at last, after many days’ waiting,
got his lease signed and can now begin building his studio, the north
light looking on the garden behind the hotel ......

I am glad that this year Lottie is coming so as to go on board here;
she can have many things to her taste which she could not last year,
and she will not have the dusty ride to Sioot. Dr. Grant is still invit-
ing people to his Wednesday Evenings. Thus far there seems to be
nothing new in the way of anteekeh. Dr. Worthington ﬁnds my
health much better apparently than last June—spite of rides I
weigh'a hundred eighty-ﬁve.

Sunday Linnie and Ned came Monday after a tedious
Deceméer 15, 1889 voyage from Messina, weary with holding them-
selves in their berths, but rejoicing in the

knowledge of beautiful Sicily.
“7ednesday Mamma and Dora came to Alexandria and Thursday
to Shepheard’s, Mamma in better health and spirits than I had
feared. They had but one bad day, the ﬁrst, but had suffered much

from mosquitoes on board. Mamma’s face is still badly marked by

540

 

