[CHAPTERSEVEN

practically over a month ago. In 1880 they had it and when I came in
December it was spoken of as long past.

A Mrs. R. H. W’etmore here from New York reminds me much in
looks, brightness and snap, and her way of putting things, of Mrs.
Coleman twenty years ago. She says I have ridiculed her into going
to Luxor and Athens, though she is to meet her only son Sidney in
Rome and sail from Havre before the end of the year. She is ﬁve
months my elder, and has with her an elder cousin and two girls.

The Consul’s Kavass told me yesterday that Hassan had now a
good place as Kavass1 in the Prussian or rather German Consulate,
and was happy. Also that behind the Darb—el-Gammamayz there
was a secret place where one could buy women and girls white and
black, and eunuchs are for sale or for hire by the month. He says that
now that the monks near Sioot are not allowed to make them, they
make them in Abyssinia before sending them down.

November 23, 1887 At dawn I found your three letters and another
from Italy from Gridley at my door, besides the
Hem/d5, and I have stood up in my dressing gown to read them by
the gray light. But I do not see that you have taken your passage.
Hervé Bazil and Judge Kinsman have both asked me to tell them by
what boat you will arrive that they may meet you. I am glad Gridley
is coming. He is a very good fellow and will make some ﬁne photo-
graphs and give us a set. He says he shall bring plates enough to
photograph everything in Egypt, animate and inanimate.
There is much news in the papers, but our telegraph spoils it. Poor
Fritz2 at one end, the anarchists at the other; which has the worst
fate? And Papa Gre’:vy,3 calling in Clemenceau to insult him!

Yesterday morning I saw the Consul and his family and the four
American women off by the Cook boat in a fog and then went over to
ﬁnd the huge capstan which had hauled our stern far enough N ile-
ward over big timbers slushed with Nile mud and water, shifted to the
prow, and with great outlay of voice and brawn the Seven Hat/207': be—
gan to move. Very slowly and with long hitches. The rumor ran that
an Afreet kept every boat hauled up on that ground, for three years,

 

I. Came = Servant. guard of a Consulate.
2. Crown Prince and later Emperor Frederic III who died in 1888.
3. Jules Grévy. third President of the French Republic resigned on December 2. 1887.

436

