NOVEMBER 1888 TO JULY 1889]

should have torn it down last year; it may not be so easy now. Aly
Hussein who has been into many a tomb with me, told me he had
been there three days with his boy and did not go home across the
river at night because it cost half a piastre ferriage. A man with him
sold me three ﬁne green scarabs, like those the vendors ask one to
four pounds for, at a dollar apiece. He said they came from Semaina.

Abd el Megeed gave Lottie and Dora each one of them.

7anuary 24, 1889 Saw Morning Post Borthwick at Beato’s this

morning. He has a very old dahabeeyeh towed
by the 007245. Krupp has left his portrait at Todros’s in a mushara-
beeyeh frame. Beato has something real to grumble about this year.
A Greek, whom he calls a Jew, peddles Port Said photographs at ten
cents a piece with great persistence, leaving them in the dahabeeyehs
to be selected from. They are crumpled and bad, but he sells many.
On occasion the Jew Greek says he is Beato’s son. I have had to take
seventy of these badly printed views, such as nobody else has taken.
For the past ten days we have more cloudy weather than I have seen
here before. It seems to be ended and the Egyptian sun has come out,
perhaps because the British troops have gone down the river. Dined
at the Hotel with the Bousﬁelds. Practically he seems a good man but
theoretically he is so much of a Tory that he is in favor of personal
as well as of national slavery.

Friday ..... At noon arrived Mr. Albright’s boat
yanuary 25, 1889 with Hassam Speke, the arrangements for which
I made in Cairo. They are twenty-ﬁve days from
Cairo. Mr. Albright is much improved by the Egyptian weather, but
he is in a hurry yet. His wife is red and brown and sturdy. M. Baillet
of the French School came in the afternoon and staid to dinner. He
has spent a month at Abydos living in Gad’s house, which was blind,
old Seleeb’s, and gathering about four hundred and ﬁfty un-Egyptian
inscriptions, Greek Phenician, Carian and others. A letter from
Wiedemann in Bonn says that the project of moving the Museum is
given up. His H is’rodotus1 is almost ﬁnished and now he will undertake
the Book of the Underworld. He has all the texts of it I have, and
more, and patience besides.

 

r. A. Wiedemann, “Herodots zweites Buch mit sachlichen Erlauterungen." Leipzig. 1890.

509

