FEBRUARY 1884 TO MAY 1884]

showed me the girls’ school; there were pretty faces and bright eyes.
They have about three hundred scholars, girls and boys and about
as many more are in schools supported by “enlightened” Copts and
taught by their scholars.

On the way back I found our Consul the Elder in his eight-acre
garden, of which an acre is in grapes, ripe in July and August. The
garden is only four years old and will improve year by year. We used
all my stock of Arabic and he set a man to gathering ﬂowers. Soon
the Younger, who speaks English well, came; I had seen him two
years ago, when the Elder Brother was alive. The family is very rich.
He thinks the people were glad that Baker was beaten, though their
own friends were killed, and that they would welcome the Mahdi,
though they would ﬁght for nobody. I was the ﬁrst American they
had seen this year.

Monday we steamed our winding way from the thirteenth to the
ninth Nome, the abode of him of whom the Greeks made Pan. The
friendly French miller was away and so we had only to prowl through
the town, the rest to see the Korn and I into the market to see the
remains of the weaver-work, renowned from ancient times. I found
only cotton, mellayelz: such as the girls made their dresses of and
pieces of about equal size, red and white and green, the red predom-
inating, woven in just such patterns as those of our great-grand-
mother’s coverlids ......

Tuesday Said found here a little Isis and Horus somewhat
Feéruary 19, 1884 broken, a statue on behalf of Pa Ne/zsi “The
Black,” son of Nitocris, and I have four girls,

headless, on one stone, also with their names.

Later We spent an hour at Mensheeyeh and took a turn, I on a

donkey, the rest afoot. A part of the time I was surrounded
and conducted by two or three hundred boys. I rode through the
lean camels and the fat cattle of the market, two or three energetic
boys making a way through the most impossible places. The stone
with the great Greek Inscription we saw last year is still in the same
place. On the way back I found a Greek stone with a complete in-
scription telling how “Nikomachos a priest of Zeus set up this altar

269

