[CHAPTER TWO

Sunday Christmas and I had no present. We came on
Deceméer 25, 1881 starting early and leaving behind us the daha-
beeyeh Fostat, which is towed up by a small
steamer. We had seen it from afar several times on our way but not
until I saw the party in the Bazaar yesterday did I recognize them,
as Mme M ..... and her three attendants. At Shepheard’s she sported
a dog and very large diamonds and was pretty and none of the ladies
spoke with her. They said she had been the Countess Nobody and
young M ..... was infatuated with her, and she had made him marry
her as soon as he was of age; and that he has fourteen thousand
pounds a year now and will have one hundred thousand pounds.
Horriblell Two other young men are with them for company.
M ..... is the silliest looking Englishman I have yet seen, save one,
whom I saw here last winter, and who, they said was an American;
but that could never be. We passed along the great mountain to the
amphitheatre of Gow el Kebir where Horus fought it out with Set,
and then around the Gebel Sheikh Hareed’ee and to Sohag, where
we sent a telegram to Belianeh for donkeys, and at sunset set foot on
the classic ground of the Egyptian Pan, or rather Khem out of whom
the Greeks made Pan. We promenaded through the town and then
out north and while the rest paraded, I made friends with the people
of Khemtownl and they showed me the stone with the famous Greek
inscription how that on the ninth of the month Pakhon in the twelfth
year of Trajan, Tiberius Claudius Apollinaris ﬁnished this propylon
with his own money, having begun it with the money of the people.
The mighty stone once over the triumphal doorway is now mostly
underground. I

Monday Leaving Said in the town to look for anteek’eh
December 26, 1881 I donkey-rode with the rest two hours north to
the mountain where we found a multitude of

monk-holes in the rock, some of them made by the Greeks for burial
purposes and many with drawings on the ceilings, one a zodiac. The
country was lovely so that though we saw no hieroglyphics and our
donkeys were not good, yet we enjoyed it very much. Returning,
Said had found nothing but an Italian made Greek cameo and some

 

1. Murray. ”Egypt." 1880. p. 431.

98

