[CHAPTEREIGHT

Then we turned its northern end and our ﬁve men dragged the boat
over the shallows, helped by the sail. It was a comical journey and
would have been enjoyed by Yankee boys; we hardly knew whether
we were going by land or water. But ﬁnally the water grew deeper
and about one third of the way up the island we reached El Heeby, a
high and big enclosure of crude brick, some of them bearing the car-
touches of King Men-Kheper-ra and Queen Isi-m-Kheb, Twenty-
ﬁrst Dynasty folk, found with the grand old Pharaohs at Deir el
Bahari‘. It was her papyrus one end of it which Mohammed Abd-er-
Rasool showed me in 1881; the other end I saw at Prince Ibraheem’s;
both are now in Boolak, with her funeral tent and all her family.
Her father, Masaherta’s colossal granite statue, hawk-headed, I fell
upon in the Kings stables in Brussels in 1878, where it was hidden
from the Egyptological worldz. There is a smaller yard, with a small
brick wall about it to the northeast of the other and many graves all
about of later time have just been opened by a man from Cairo they
told us; the stone sarcophagi and fragments of wood and of mummy
cases scattered about had no inscriptions. The whole place was grisly
with skulls and cross and other bones, mummies human and counter-
feit. For here were several which had only palm branches for bodies.
Would not this indicate the existance of Life Insurance Companies,
even in the absence of any papyrus policy? We descended and re-
peated our wading andsailing, around the south end of the island
this time, to ﬁnd that the Seven Harbor: was ﬂoating down the west
side of it. At four we reached home with an appetite. At ten we
reached Bibbeh where I had a long journey around an under-water
island to get from the channel to the town. Then I besieged the post-
ofﬁce, selected the letters and papers I wanted and returned at
eleven-thirty, glad to hear from Compton, New York and Paris, no,
not glad to hear from Linnie that Mary Booth is dead; that makes
me feel poorer. Poor Mrs. Wright.

I. F. Ll. Grifﬁth. “Catalogue of the demotic papyri in the John Rylands Library. Manchester." Man-
chester. 1909. Vol. II], pp. 37—42; H. Ranke. “Koptische Friedhofe bei Karate und der Amon-tempel
Sheshonks I bei el-Hibe." Berlin. 1926.

2. G. Maspero. “Notes sur quelques points de grammaire et d'histoire." 5 XXIX in “Zeitschrift fur {igyp—
tische Sprache." vol. XX, 1882, p. 134. J. Capart "Documents pour servir a l'étude de l’art égyptien.
vol. I. Paris. 1927. pl. XCIX—C.

S30

