OCTOBER 1881 T0 APRIL 1882]

and should go to Cairo and make the Crédit Lyonnais, which ought
to know me, think he was I, and forge my name and make them
think his was my signature, he might cheat them into giving up the
letter and then cheat them or somebody else into buying a forged
draft on Drexel, which Drexel would pay if he did not recognize the
forgery. I could not lose, but I ought to notify the Crédit Lyonnais
and I can’t. We prospected the little pyramid, veriﬁed what I had
found before, that there was no north side, one being due northeast
and one equally northwest, and engaged men to work at twelve and
one-half cents a day, thirty to begin to-morrow. The pyramid is
about sixty feet square by thirty—ﬁve high and in three distinct steps.
Coming up we had overhauled my big trunks and got out the photo-
graphic apparatus and c0pied some of our stones to try. Brugsch is a
considerable photographer and Wilson1 the Philae photographer had
given him an idea of gelatine plates and sixty plates. We found that
his plates were worthless and my last year’s plates excellent, and we
took the pyramid before beginning upon it.

Wednesday Work began, two of our sailors being the best

February I, 1882 hands. They have one big and one smaller and one

very short iron bar and two mattocks to scrape up

the dirt and some small baskets in which small boys carry it away on
their heads. Many spectators.

Thursday Market day at the village above. All day boats
Fearuary 2, 1882 were coming across from the other side and men
and women and children and camels and buffaloes

and donkeys and sheep and goats were steaming up and down one
little streak of Egypt. A woman told me there must be gold in the
pyramid; that was why we wished to open it. Toward night we were
all on the ground; even Mme. Rhoné hobbled up there on her
crutches. The ﬁrst step was taken away to the rock below and as we
neared it there was great interest to know if we should ﬁnd a covered
way, a couloir we called it, in the language of the majority. But sun-

 

1. Edward Livingstone Wilson. American photographer (1838-1903). See “The Temples of Egypt" in
"Scribner's Magazine," vol. IV. no. 4. Oct., 1888. pp. 387—409.

125

