[CHAPTERSIX

january 20, 1887 We have come in two delightful uneventful days

to Kasr-es-Syad; our Faithful Darweesh has
taken donkey to Raseeyeh where his family live and we have tied up.
The postal boat has passed us on the way to Keneh, carrying, we
hope, our next week’s supply of butter and perhaps some news from
the New Worlds, Europe and America. . . . .

Lottie is writing with me in the dining room and Linnie is reading
to the rest in the parlor at the end of the boat. The Germans are a
day or two ahead of us and Mr. Insinger a day or two behind. We
shall meet at Luxor, probably and go on together. Six or eight more
dahabeeyehs are coming up, we hear, some, we hope, with friends.

LUXOR We have been here now ﬁve days, have seen very
7anuary 28, 1887 many of my Egyptian friends, who quite approve
of my family, especially of my boy whom they
think extraordinary. They call him Mamour, Arabic for Victor. We
found Mrs. Foote here and Mrs. and the Misses Blackies at the
Hotel and the Germans in their dahabeeyeh. The last have gone but
the hotel folks will stay another month before going down to Cairo.
It has been quite cold for these ﬁve days, yet we have not suffered so
much as I feared we would. Beato the Italian photographer says he
has never known so cold a spell. To-day the Crown Prince of Italy1
came, a nice boy who looks like his mother. Stolid M. Grébaut ac-
companied him to Karnak. The poor Italian Consul who had dressed
a path from the. river to his house and who stood nervously waiting
in a black suit with white gloves for two hours was sadly disap-
pointed. The Steamer did not stop there but came to the usual land-
ing and the boy rode straight off to Karnak.

\Ve have only been thither and not yet to the west side of the river.
There are so many people to see. I think all the family are quite in-
terested in the life and society, and do not ﬁnd Egypt such a desert
as they feared.

We live just as quietly as we like on. the boat and when we want to
see people we can. . . . .Mr. Insinger has not yet come up
though he left Sioot six days ago and has his little steamer to help
him.

1. Victor Emmanuel III. son of King Humbert l and Queen Margherita of Savoy. born at Naples on the
nth of November. 1869.

 

422

