FOREWORD

When, in the course of examining the papers of Charles Edwin
Wilbour at the Brooklyn Museum, during February 1932, I came
upon three bulky portfolios ﬁlled with small personal letters written
to his family by the later American Egyptologist, I experienced the '
emotions of one making a happy ﬁnd in excavation.

What the delight was to a student of Egyptian archaeology can
perhaps be imagined—the exalted satisfaction of beholding spread
under his eyes the ﬁeld-history of his science during a period of more
than ten years, and that period of notable discoveries under the direc-
tion of Gaston Maspero.

Charles Edwin Wilbour was a learned and broad-minded spectator
of the Egyptological world. For several winters he enjoyed the privi-
lege of being Maspero’s guest on the steamer attached to the Anti-
quities Department of Egypt. No ofﬁcial excavation could be made
without his direct knowledge and his immediate visit to the locality.
Through his friendly relations with the natives, who made their own
excavations, openly or secretly, he was additionally acquainted with
many discoveries at ﬁrst kept hidden from the authorities.

During his explorations, Charles Edwin Wilbour acquired many
antiquities, with no deﬁnite idea of forming a collection. Many of the
pieces he bought are of the ﬁrst interest to specialists, a few are
masterpieces of Egyptian art.

The letters are written from day to day to members of his family
in Paris or America. They were not intended for publication and are
full of personal and intimate matter. They give nonetheless, a vivid
impression of events in the “Egypt of the Egyptologist” from 1880
to 1891, when his letters cease at the death of his mother.

I have necessarily been selective in editing the letters, but I have
as far as possible referred in footnotes to the publicationsO) on the
subject of the monuments and personalities named in them. I wish
to acknowledge the devoted help received in Brussels from Mademoi-

(1) Quotations from the British Encyclopaedia. refer to the edition of 1910; B signiﬁes Baedeker. Egypt,
edition of 1929.

VII

