[CHAPTER FOUR

where Maximilian’s collection, which used to be at Miramar, is now
stored until the building is ﬁnished. Three columns of granite, twenty
feet long, brought from Alexandria and built into the rooms, I iden-
tiﬁed as from the temple of Ptah at Memphis; the Romans had
utilized them about half as long ago as when Thothmes IV brought
them down from Assuan. Now after thirty-ﬁve hundred years of use
they go into the palace of art.1 A fragmentof a similar pillar is all that
is above ground at Memphis, but it is peculiar and I carefully
sketched it a year ago. The sea air of Alexandria has spoiled the
polish of these, but the cartouches of Meneptah and Seti II are clear;
they were added by those worthies on the fourth Thothmes’columns.

Politzer is I think getting on well. This morning I even imagined
that the rushing sound was diminishing. And surely I can hear better.
He proposes, when I leave, to ﬁx me out with a Politzer bag and ac-
coutrements and in America I can buy a translation of his book ﬁve
inches thick, and set up as an Aurist. However, the Scotchman who
translated it two years ago has just died, which is discouraging. So I
will be content with guiding him to-morrow in the Egyptian collec-
tion, for he has an inquiring mind and a few false antiquities. I sleep
at the Grand Hotel where I have a good room and bed, and I go to
the Poste restante, every day between nine and ten and write this as
I did my last letter from the Café Europe looking at the front of St.
Stephan’s, black with time and mottled with its ancient tomb stones.
Here are London and Paris papers two days old, but the essential
news is telegraphed from New York to the Vienna papers ......
My week will be up with the doctor to-morrow, but if it seems best,I
shall stretch it a little ......

VIENNA The doctor thought this morning I was improving
Monday fast enough to warrant staying two or three days
May 18, 1884 more ......

 

I. A. Dedekind, ”Geschichte der Kaiserlichen Sammlung Altﬁgyptischer Objekte in Wien.” Vienna. 1907.
pp. 24-23.

326

