[CHAPTER Two

appreciation of the unexpected comic. We were, for instance, speak-
ing with and of Mr. Holtz as a great water drinker whereupon I men-
tioned that I had noticed the Nile was very low this year. To this he
and all assented in a solemn, statistical way. But when, slightly dis-
guised, I revived the same joke with due preparation an hour after-
wards, I found as I expected to, that it was heartily appreciated. The
best situation of the evening I thought was when we gave the staid
Stoppelaar “Don Juan” to guess, and he gave it as his judgment,
after hearing our testimony, that it was Mr. Law. But the joke did
not wake a smile anywhere. It was after mid-night when I went down
the unlighted street to the Museum.

Monday The carriages did not come and I had to take a cart
April 17, 1882 and a donkey to the train; M. Rhoné came with me
to see Mme. de Bligniéres off. And it was so late they
would not take my baggage and so I did not go in the eight o’clock
train and have written you about the dinner, waiting for the ten
o’clock train. Mme. Hagens and M. 8: Mme. de Rochemonteix were
here to see off Mme. de Blignieres at eight and I saw them for a mo-
ment. Neither the De Rs. nor Judge and Mme. Herbout1 go this
week; they expected to. At ten I got into a compartment with the
Pattersons and we came safely through the Tantah fair to Alexandria
where the porter of the Hotel de l’Europe told me Judge Farman was
waiting for me. We went to see a Syrian who has many gold things.
I picked out his royal scarabees and condemned the false inscription
on a true hawk Horus two feet high in hard stone, a good piece of
sculpture, ancient, but spoiled by the vulgar imitation of hiero-
glyphics recently scratched around the pedestal. The Judge spent
the evening with me and had a lot of his things which I called in the
two Pattersons to see, and then I had a little talk with the brother—
in-law of the nephew and successor of Brooke the Rajah of Sarawak
in Borneo—a strange country swampy and not fair to see, where
white children die and adults scarcely live. We go aboard at eight in
the morning and this letter, though it starts a day later will probably
outstrip us. Our boat is the Pe’luse in which I made my last year’s
voyages. And now for a night’s rest and then for a revelation of
what the sea holds in store.
I. Jules Firmin Gabriel Herbout. French Judge in Cairo from 1876 to 1883.

I72

 

