[CHAPTEREICHT

shown me carefully over the temple and how he had thirty pounds
which would be enough to clear out the remaining rooms and put a
wall about the whole that the fellaheen would not get over. But the
Captain keeps the accounts and the thirty pounds will not be half
enough. The Captain is there to see that Gad does not steal. At eve-
ning in Belianeh, Gadeé, whom I sought in Raceeyeh, showed me
some alabaster with Pepi inscriptions almost a duplicate of that in
the Abbott collection in New York, just found at Kaﬂeteeyeh. I
bought a little goblet with a cartouche of “Son of Ra, Pepi” and left
a larger with banner names and the cartouche “Son of Hathor, Lady
of Denderah, Pepi” this last had a cover with his other name “Nefer-
ka-ra” not in a cartouche, just like that in New York, if I remember
rightly. Mohammed Mohassib’s goblet of the other Pepi father of this,
was sold him by Gadeé for twelve or ten pounds; they differ slightly.

March 16, 1889 We came to Geergeh early and sent to the post

ofﬁce for tea from Cairo; then to Mensheeyeh
where I found that our friend Hanna Kerass had been sixty-six days
in irons in Soohag accused of the murder of the little postmaster.
M. Frénay explained afterwards that the people who probably killed
him because he held their notes which have disappeared, having
probably paid two hundred pounds to the authorities in Soohag, it was
necessary to arrest somebody, and the dead man’s brother took ad-
vantage of this to try to blackmail Hanna and not succeeding, ac-
cused him. There could be no reason for it, except that Hanna was
his best friend, as we know. However he was in good spirits and
twenty days out of prison had restored his appearance. Grébaut’s
snake, he said, had been found in the Mensheeyeh mound by men
who lived a little way up on the other side of the river and they had
taken it to Ekhmeem. We found Ekhmeem and M. Frénay in the
afternoon. He took us to see two astounding mummy cases in Kha-
leel’s house and I called on Sidrach to ﬁnd nothing desirable. Sidrach
told me that the snake’s head had been made by Gregos, who now
works for Sheikh Alee by the day. Frénay dined with us and then we
came on to Soohag, it being much too warm to make the Red and
\Vhite Convents excursion.

526

