[CHAPTER ONE

Wednesday afternoon we went to the Temple of Esneh and yester-
day afternoon we spent in that of Edfoo. This morning we are com-
fortably gliding on towards the hottest place in the world, Assuan.
We hope to reach it to-night and spend tomorrow in Philae. Mme.
Maspero busies herself as if at home; she sees about things, repairs
and dams and when not overcome by the heat, is lively and joyous
and prattles a good deal, having much pleasantry with Mr. Rhoné,
who IS not handsome and who 18 good-naturedly made the butt of
the boat. Mme. de Rochemonteix IS a very pleasant woman who
keeps herself much apart; her husband knows people and places here
to which they separately go, which Mme. Maspero does not wholly
enjoy. De Rochemonteix has many Arab friends; Maspero will, I
think, hardly ever have one. Mme. Brugsch is a soft Armenian An—
gora pussy cat, who is always ready to take a back seat and a ciga-
rette; I try to talk a little Arabic with her.. . . . . The table is
on the upper deck which runs ﬂush the length of the boat. It is very
nice at dinner but at noon is rather warm. Below you go down into a
large saloon more than twenty feet square, aft of which are the rooms
of M. and Mme. Maspero, mine, and the bathroom in which I make
my toilette. Forward, opening out of the saloon, are the rooms of M.
and Mme. Rochemonteix, and the rest have rooms I have not yet
seen in the forepart of the vessel. The boat is very nicely ﬁtted up.
There are many hieroglyphic books in the saloon. In cooler weather it
would leave little to desire.

Sunday Friday we did reach Assuan, the heat not quite so
April 10, I881 severe. It was pleasant to see the town again in the
heat. Two lone dahabeeyehs we found when we

went up in the felucca from the steamer which could not approach
within a mile for lack of water. On one of them was the Princess Bi—
besco, whose divorce from the French Prince de Bauffremont and the
subsequent legal proceedings have made so much noise in the papers.
Miss Fagundus saw on the Postal Steamer from Assioot to Luxor a
Princess married, she said, to an Italian Count, who were so proud of
each other that at table they held each others hands. But they were
the only other ﬁrst class passengers and treated her as well as they
could spare time to. They had come up in a dahabeeyeh; the Princess
had a toothache at Assuan and they had been down to Cairo to get it

68

