NOVEMBER 1885 TO MAY 1886]

Thursday A sciatic feeling which has been growing since
Apr-£115, 1886 Egypt, was rather severe this morning after the
rain yesterday. Till to-day I have not felt it after

the ﬁrst hour in the morning. So I have begun to ﬂannel it. But if this
pellucid air can start it, what has Compton in store for me? I hob-
bled out to the Tower of the Winds where the eight are following
each other around the octagon and then went to the gate of the Oil
Market where is posted up on enduring marble Hadrian’s law touch-
ing the sale of the oil. The lower third of the inscription is illegible.
It seems intended to limit the portion of the crop allowed to be sold
and to provide for accounts thereof. A gentleman appeared and in
Italian speech invited me to his house southwest and next to the
Gate. He showed me thirty or forty little pieces of nearly worthless
pots and pitchers and vases, from Korinth he said, which the stress of
the times led him to offer for a hundred ﬁfty francs, though they had

been in the family twenty years.

Then I tried to look in upon the Stoa of Attalus and returned to
my beefsteak and maccaroni. They know how to cook here and I
think I was never in a cleaner hotel. Through the open windows of
the poorer houses one sees a cleanliness, hardly seen elsewhere, even
in northern towns.

Here is all the inspiration one feels in Rome, without the oppres-
sion of its bewildering extent, and without its dirty people. I know
of no more delightful town, at any rate for this month of April. I
hope next April to be here and not alone. Till then I will leave all ex-
cursions and now try to do a little study and rumination. I do not
wonder that the old Greeks bragged about their air. It is now subtly
blue, more delicately luminous, more skyey than any other I have
seen or can imagine on this globe.

Thursday ﬂfternoon ..... I bought “Mahaffy’s Rambles in

April 15, 1886 Greece” at the German store in which it was

marked thirteen francs; in the other it was

seventeen although the keeper’s name is Karl Wilberg. And I put

an advertisement in the Ephemerz's for a reader of Greek who should
know some other language, three francs for two insertions.

393

