[CHAPTERSEVEN

the Sacred Lake, and some weighty fragments, all bearing the Ses-
ostris cartouche.1 We thought of riding over to Helwan but Egypt
prevailed and we did not, and so on this eighth day of April we are
rowing and ﬂoating down to Cairo.

CAIRO Ten days now we have spent anchored here off
Friday Prince Ibrahim’s Palace; it has been cool and com-
A’pril 20, I888 fortable, sometimes a little windy, enough to make
me shy of the Mediterranean. We have seen most of
our friends in the town and most of them have seen us here; it would
not be a bad place to set up a salon. Grébaut, who had to leave his
big steamer at Sioot, came in two or three days ago and recounted his
woes. He is no longer the Grébaut of three or four months ago. He
will make 'no more seizures; his masters have brought him up with a
round turn. A committee has been put over him, to whom he must
submit everything of importance; a contract has been given to Rosto-
vitch to dig for bones all over Sakkara and Aboosyr; he is ordered to
set up an anteekeh sales room in the Museum; he is ordered to send
all his cuneiform tablets to England—to be read. He feels that they
are crowding him on every side, as they would not have dared crowd
Maspero, he who felt not long since that his ways were so much
better than Maspero’s. And coming back from Sakkara whither he
had been with Rostovitch Wednesday he entertained me with all this
from seven till eleven. His seizures have hurt him enormously; he
found it out and gave M. Mohassib forty pounds, A. Megeed ﬁfty
pounds and Sidrack twenty-nine pounds, but that does him no good
now. The Egyptian Gazette, the British organ, has attacked him with
malignant lies, Britishly malignant, three or four times and Cardwell,
our Consul General, tells me it was once told about that he was dis-
missed and Naville had succeeded him.

I went Tuesday to Zagazig to see the work Naville2 has been over-
seeing for the Egyptian Exploration Fund. The mound of Zagazig is
very large, from a square mile to a thousand acres. He has found and
dug out a space, say two hundred by seven hundred feet, full of red
granite stones three to ten feet across. There is no sign of any founda-
tion of a wall; it would look like a lot of big stones dumped together

 

r. Porter-Moss. “Topographical Bibliography." vol. 111. Oxford. 1931. p. 221.
2. E. Naville, “Bubastis” (1887—1889). London. 1891.

466

