[CHAPTER TWO

taken from.1 They found a few ﬂowers and three small inscriptions in
ink on the walls. This evening the Wekeel and the engineer and two
clerks and Todros the younger and Aly Effendi and an Italian priest
from Negadeh and other ten of us are here in the saloon. The esti-
mate is ﬁnished for the houses to be taken out of the temple and all is
written out in handsome Arabic and it is read by Todros into English
and the Wekeel and the engineer seal it with their seals and hence-
forth it goes to the ministry that the necessary funds may be put into
the budget and the work be begun next year. Meantime Bouriant
and Charmes and I spent the morning in the temple and we discov-
ered a most interesting religious historic text wherein the divine ori-
gin of Amenophis III is circumstantially described.2

Friday I got a ladder in the morning and puzzled out the
ffammry 27, I882 broken part of this text and deaconed it of}~ to
Bouriant. Maspero went over with Brugsch to
see the Tombs of the Queens which he did not see last year. Then in
the afternoon I took account of the Victories of Seti at Karnak, half
covered by débris from Mariette’s excavations, and sketched a part
of the many offering scenes on the granite sanctuary. The sanctua-
ries of Amon in the two great temples of Karnak and Luxor differ
from most others in being thoroughfares open at each end, which is
rather contrary to our ideas of a sanctuary. In other temples, if they
be small, the central rear room is the sanctuary as at Philae; if large
the sanctuary is what corresponds to our choir (containing the altar
and the relics) in churches, while there is a sort of echo of it in the
centre chapel behind the choir.

But these two are only paths to rear rooms.3 Oddly enough they
were both rebuilt, Thothmes the Third’s in Karnak by Philip Arrhi-
deus, and Amenophis the Third’s in Luxor by Ptolemy Alexander II,

I. G. Maspero. “Les Momies royales de Deir el Bahan‘." pp. 520-523; an American photographer accom-
panied Maspero and Brugsch. A description was published by him: Edward L. Wilson. “Finding Pha-
raoh." in “The Century Magazine." vol. XXXIV, May. 1887, pp. 3-10. See also G. Maspero. “Notes sur
quelques points de grammaire et d’histoire." § XXX in ”Zeitschrift filr agyptische Sprache." vol. XX.
1882, pp. 134-135.

2. In the "Birth Room.” See Porter-Moss. "Topographical Bibliography." vol. II, pp. 106—108. See J.
Capart and M. Werbrouck. "Thebes: The Glory of a Great Past." New York. 1926. pp. 86- 88.

3. For this problem—see G. Legrain. "Le Logetnent et le transport des barques sacrées et des statues den
dieux dans quelques temples égyptiens." in "Bulletin de l'lnstitut francais d'archéologie orientale."
vol. XIII. 1917, pp. I and seq.

122

