NOVEMBER 1886 T0 APRIL 1887]

siderable chaos. But I think it will reduce itself in a day or twoand
that we shall take wings and stem the stream. Our accommodations
are rather extensive; Ned compares them to a Sound Steamer. In—
singer’s father has come to make him a little visit and advises him to ,
start soon and has put the little steamer’s hull into the water. Her
engine and boiler have not arrived, but will be sent after us up the
river. The German invalid of Leipzig, . . . . and her mother and
sister . . . . have taken the boat I made an offer for, but did not
buy, and will go up with us. Mrs. F oote went up on the Cook boat
Tuesday with the Blackies, and will after going to Assuan stop at
Luxor. Of course we have many more things to buy and are hurrying
to and fro and it seems as though we should never ﬁnish. Down here
these two mornings a fog has arisen on the riverjust after sunrise and
it is chilly. But when we get a little way up the river we shall leave

fog behind.

Deceméer 21, I886 Insinger will take his father up the river to Sak—
kara to-morrow and I think we shall have to follow him the next day
—for we have yet many things more to buy and arrange. Lottie be-
gins to think that the dragoman earns his money, but even if we had
a dragoman there would be nearly as much running, for one does nor
start on a hundred days’ voyage without much preparation. Gener-
ally the ﬁrst time we ﬁnd we have taken the wrong things. Just now
we have sent off our Christian waiter and are awaiting the Moham-
medan who is to take his place and was to have our coffee ready
about this time. The carpenter is still at work. The four hundred pe-
troleum cans are in the hold and will life—preserve seven tons of us,
quite enough to keep a wooden boat without ballast aﬂoat.

Orr BEDRESHEYN We started yesterday and were pulled up to
Deceméer 26, 1886 Gizeh and lay alongside our German friends.

After our Christmas turkey they came over to
see us and admired our greens and roses. Today we have had wind
enough to come to Bedresheyn where we ﬁnd Admiral Insinger who
proposes to go on. A Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year to
you all. '

415

