DECEMBER 1880 TO APRIL 1881]

New Year’s Day, 1881 Yesterday we went to the Pyramids. It was

a perfect day and at eight-thirty Mr. 8:
Mrs. Young and I drove down the shaded avenues and across the
great bridge, guarded byits four mighty lions, then along the West
Bank of the Nile, where I had been to dine with Elsen, and past the
great Palace out upon the straight, shaded road, which points for
miles to the World’s Wonder we went out to see. The broad way
is twenty feet higher than the ﬂat bottom land on either side, where
we saw ploughing, one plough was drawn by two wide-yoked camels
but most by oxen, none of the broad-horned breed of the Pharaohs,
and much green grain, and canals and a few dark mounds—the sites
of ancient abodes covered with huts whence issued now and then a
little troop of girls or boys dancing and shouting rhythmically
“Bakhshish.” As we gave them nothing they soon ceased, but two or
three boys ran as many miles. Then we came toward the end, the
great teeth gradually entering into the sky, until three-quarters of a
mile from them, at a forty rod piece of bad road just made, the driver
and a ﬂock of vendors of false antiquities insisted on stopping—that
Mrs. Young should take her donkey and we walk. But by dint of
stolid insistance and much use of opera-glass on the beautiful scene
about us, in three-quarters of an hour we forced them through clear
up to the foot of the great Pyramid. It did not seem so very large. I
told Sheikh Ibrahim, who spoke very good English, that Brugsch
Bey had told me to tell him I was his friend, and I found the words
Brugsch Bey a true talisman, a sure “sesame,” to the Bedaween
heart. He gave me an old man who had dug for Lepsius, Mohammed,
and one whose name I have forgotten, one for each hand and one to
push behind and another to carry wraps and book and glass. These
men took me up with the strength of men and the tenderness of
women. I have never seen these two qualities so united before. Often
they made me stop to rest and Mohammed insisted on rubbing my
legs. The old man spoke Italian very well; the other English. Mrs.
Young afterwards told me that she was astonished at the delicacy
and the effectiveness with which she was handled. On the top we
saw and revelled for an hour in the marvellous view around us. The
four plates in Lepsius which you have seen give but a faint idea of
the magniﬁcent reality. To the North far down the fast widening

II

