[CHAPTER ONE

LUXOR 83° in my room at noon. Yesterday I devoted to my
Sunday new Cow Room in the Tomb of Ramses III. It was a
Aprilj, 1881 long and tedious work. The remains of bats which
choked the hieroglyphics on the wall, were not plea-

sant to breathe, especially after two Englishmen had burned Bengal
lights in the large room from which alone this little chamber gets its
air. But I went through it, tiring out Mehemed Aly who carried my
chair and my lunch and poor little Haleemeh, Mr. Dubois’ water
girl, who was sadly afraid of the ﬂfreet.‘ We came back with a little
Frenchman and woman, of the same size so that she was wearing a
suit of his clothes but unluckily she retained her high heels one of
which turned coming down the mountain, and that ankle pains her
yet. On the top we saw the steamer of the Mudir of the Anteekeh,
arrived at last. I came straight to the hotel in the dusk and found
that I was expected to dine with him at seven; it was long after when
I got on board but the soup was not yet ﬁnished. They welcomed me
warmly. They are ten; M. and Mme. Maspero, de Rochemonteix
and Mme. la Marquise, Emil Brugsch and wife, Rhoné, Bourrienne,
Loret and the sub-director of the School.2 I had seen them all before,
most of them many times. They have kept a room for me and propose
to take me to Assuan again and then to Cairo and then M. and Mme.
Maspero will have me come to Sakkarah with them for a month. I
doubt whether I shall be able to endure so much kindness all at one
time. Mme. Maspero seems a stronger, more commanding woman
than I had supposed she could develop into so quickly. She is house-
keeping, and we had a better dinner than on the Cook steamers and
in our hotel. Taken on deck it was very pleasant. The steamer has a
broad saloon below, where the buffet is ﬁlled with hieroglyphic books.
Next my cabin is a bath room. It was built to accommodate M.
Mariette and his guests. The Museum is to be doubled in size, the
house Mariette occupied in its grounds to be demolished, and a new

I. Aireet. “The evil jinnees are commonly termed 'efreets' . . . they are generally believed to differ
from the other jinns in being very powerful and always malicious. but to be. in other respects. of a similar
nature." E. W. Lane. “Manners and Customs of the Modern Egyptians " London. 1898, p. 233.

2. They are ten: Emile Brugsch. brother of H. Brugsch’ photographer and later on Curator of the Cairo
Museum; Arthur Rhoné. a friend of A. Mariette, well known by his book—”L'Egypte a petites jour-
nées." Paris. 1877. a member of L'Institut {rancais d'archéologie orientale du Caire; Bourrienne is
certainly a mistake for U. Bouriant, French Egyptologist (1849—1903) member of the Institut francais;
Victor Loret. French Egyptologist. member of the Institut franmis. later Directeur du Service des
Antiquités (1897-1899). professor of Egyptology at the University of Lyon; the sub-director of the
School was J. Bourgoin. architect. professor at the Ecole des Beaux Arts. Paris.

64

