[CHAPTER TWO

Wiedemann was down to say good-bye. They start Wednesday for
Athens, Constantinople etc., . . . . . there being no cholera at
Varna. Maspero has seen his Consul and Consul General and they
say that France has determined to prevent Turkey from sending
troops to Egypt. The weather 18 splendid, cool enough with an in—
Vigorating air; you would never dream that there could be such a
thing as a Khamseen.

Friday I began to work reducing my chaos to leave it and
April 14, 1882 after breakfast went up to see the Hagens. He
talked much to me of Judge Van Bemmelen1 who has

written a book about Egypt. He was in the Judge’s Court and left
two years ago. He seems to have been rather a crank, but his book is
useful to me, talking as it does, of people and things which are here
now. I read to Mme. about Zoe’s silver, and asked her to get me
something here as Zoe has not told what she wants and perhaps it is
better to cover her bones with Cairene than with Italian silver; I
should not be good at selection. They expect to go to Gastein in July,
to Heligoland or some German watering place in August and to
Berlin in September; possibly they may come to Paris on their way
to Egypt where they will arrive in the last days of October. Mme.
told me she had sent to Shepheard’s an invitation to dinner on

Sunday.

Saturday I gave to the Museum the steles I had bought in

April 15, 1882 Upper Egypt including the unique one of the Uni-

tarian King. Maspero gave me in return a dozen

bronzes which I left with Tano the antiquary to clean. The Unitarian

stele could not be taken to a damp climate; it already shows signs

of dissolving like the statues of the King and Queen, but all may be
exposed here.

Sunday I have ﬁnished my packing and I leave my two arks
ﬂpril 16, 1882 and two baskets, one of smallish stones and one of
Elephantine ostraca, some furniture for my room,

my telescope and some books Maspero has not. Most of my clothing

1. Pieter van Bemmelen. former Judge to the Tribunal of Leyde (Holland). appointed on June 24, 1875. to
the tribunal of Ismailieh. transferred to Cairo on Februar}r 25. 1877. and retired on March 31, 1880,
published under the pseudonym of Boutros: "L'Egypte et l'Europe par un ancien juge mixte.” Leiden.
vol. I. 1881. vol. II, 1884.

170

