[CHAPTER ONE

comes from Arabia, Ptah and Neith from Libya and Sebek and Apet
from the South. All this is ground untouched in books.) .

with F. de L[esseps] who astonished me by telling me that in the late
subscription for Panama Canal shares, Barcelona came next after
Paris in amount, with 30,000 shares, $3,000,000. Then a pleasant-
eyed Frenchman with his wife, returning “to his post” he said, after
having gone to France to get over the “dingue,” a Hindoo fever, like
our break—bone; then Delort’s sister’s husband’s brother, then I in a
chair with my elbows on the arms of the settees on which the others
sat, then my tall Belgian, Edmond Elsen,1 a good fellow, who starts
for Khartoum on Tuesday in a dahabeeyeh by himself and wants to
pick me up at Luxor and take me on to Philae; then my room-mate,
then a lone American woman, Mary Monroe, who talked to me of
clergymen and her sabbath school class and who is ﬁfty and who is
not handsome and then Mr. 81 Mrs. Young of California, pleasant
people just come from Spain and going up the river and then we turn
the end and return on the other side, passing some unknown; then
three Jewesses, one a patient of Dr. Warren (she, Miss Brown and
Miss Hart and her aunt perhaps are not Hebraic) then, Jules Stewart
with blotches on his neck (whose father has the Fortuny pictures);
then a French and a Spanish artist; then Delort’s sister’s husband;
then the place of Delort’s sweet-faced sister, occupied but once by her
and then Delort, a rich bachelor who has a very ﬁne Arab bachelor’s
house with one bedroom and has had a lady to help him keep house
till now and has given ﬁne entertainments to gentlemen at which
there was high play; then Delort’s mother voluminous, then engineer
Pierre of the Suez Canal of whom and his English wife you know;
then the lame Doctor; it seemed as though he had a wooden leg and
the wood had spread, and then serious faced, high browed, high
haired Gérome2 at the Captain’s left. I have forgotten before Pierre,
the omniscient Armenian, Agopian Pacha, nephew of Nubar,3 banker
in Alexandria, who had with him a beautiful little boy with black eyes
and a white dog F10 and an English governess. There was a Mrs.
Pacha somewhere in a state-room, the ladies told me. An earnest,

I. Edmond Elsen, Belgian traveller and sportsman. died in 1883 at the age of 32 while returning from the
Congo.

2. Jean Léon Gérbme, French painter and sculptor (1824—1904).

3. Nubar Pasha. Egyptian statesman (1825—1899).

4

