DECEMBER 1882 TO APRIL 1883]

stately river-mare and how she bore her babe on the night of the
eleventh of the month of the Harvest—goddess Rennoo, how fair she
was and how all about her were rejoiced, how the ﬂesh of her boy had
been begotten to be the Lord of the Twin Lands, the Lion of both
Egypts, even as that of the god Shoo by his father Ra, ﬁt to put to
ﬂight every enemy; and how the cry of delight from Earth reached
Heaven, Ra and his god-ring shouted for joy and the Hathors made
high festival. This and much more.

ASSUAN’S MAMOOR Again the wheels turn in the morning, again
Saturday we pass along the lines of yellow sand; we see
Marc/2 10, 1883 the scattered palms and then the black
rounded rocks and the two great sycamores

by the Post Oﬂice at Assuan. The Mamoor leads us through the Ba-
zaar, where there is nothing this year, takes us to his parlor which
has a bed in it and some books, gives us sugar-water and coffee, shows
us his baby, but not his two wives, tells us his father has had twenty-
one wives and has eighteen children and seventy-seven grandchil-
dren (I suppose the twenty-one wives had many more children by
other husbands after they were divorced); and leads us back again
through the Bazaar in time for breakfast. The Postmaster tells me
the news and the postal boat came in. Guy Lussac, Charmes and
Piehl have gone to Philae but three hours donkey for two hours on
the Island in this heat, is too much for me. With Seleeb the foretime
Postmaster of Luxor, now Captain of Postal Steamer and just ar-
rived I went over to Elephantine at sunset, after Maspero and Mme.
had returned thence cooked by the heat, and passed a pleasant half
hour where I have bought so many ostraca. The women were getting
supper and I saw only a few of their antiquities but those I saw were
not worth buying; the excitement of the summer has prevented their
collection. The old rocks and the new palms and water make a won-
derful picture and are wonderfully refreshing a day like this. The
three Nile travellers came back, not on their donkeys but in a boat
over the rapids with which they were enchanted, Maspero is greatly
relieved that the Cook boat has not arrived to send its passengers, of
whom he has constant dread, with us to Philae tomorrow and at ten

I close this and the day.

231

