DECEMBER 1882 TO APRIL 1883]

arrest drunken soldiery, and busy it is. To-day I have seen Said,
who seemed very glad to see me and many Pyramid Arabs and Mr.
Garwood, who has been crazy since spring, but is straight again, and
after noon I went down and found Mme. Maspero looking very well,
though not yet permitted to go about alone; she has good color and
spirits. They both showed me the Museum which is coming into
shape though they have had no extra money to do it with. The Ger-
man carpenter, who staid through, has one or two Arabs to help
him and with some boards and a little paint the work goes on. My
big stele of Amenophis IV is on the eye—line. The Catalogue is about
half made; about a quarter of the space is still waiting for the joiner’s
work. One large room will be ﬁlled by the Great Find. They wished
me to come down at once, but I will stay a few days in the town ﬁrst.
Piehl,1 the tall Swede, whom Dora will remember, is there already for
the voyage. Charmes is at the New Hotel. Renan, who dares not this
year make the voyage to Arabia Petrea, his chief mission Eastward,
will not come. We shall not ﬁnish the work on the Little Pyramid be-
yond Esneh now. But we shall stop a week at Amarna, the Unitarian
town. All the men on the boat except two, and those common sailors,
will be with us again. The Cook steamer had nine passengers and but
four dahabeeyehs have gone up; there are scarcely any travellers; the
occupation of the dragoman and the anteekeh-seller is well—nigh gone.

Tuesday I have seen more anteekeh, nothing nice, and
Deceméer 26, 1882 been to the consulate to see if there were any
news of Mrs. Moulton’s postal package. Ibra-

heem told me that Aly Moorad had received the Dicky and a little
scarf and he thought the rest never was put in the Post. The Hotel
Porter sent off the things and he has left the hotel. Van Dyck has re—
signed and gone into the Egyptian Custom House at Alexandria.
Pomeroy was out; his wife was not able to cross the Atlantic ......

There are near a hundred in the hotel, but hardly half a dozen
real travellers of the old sort. However they expect some after New

 

1. Karl Piehl. Swedish Egyptologist (1853—1904). see Ernst Anderson. in “Sphinx." Upsala. vol. VIII.
1904. 139- I17-134-

I81

, E— .
‘ r. n
l l

” l l »

