[CHAPTEREIGHT

she had just rushed after the rat which had jumped into the water.
Sure, for Moorgaany and Idrees both saw him. The Rais whom I
consulted as to his probable fate, thought it too dark for him to see
the way ashore, though they say he was a handy rat who could go up
a rope hand over hand. But the cat laments his absence so dismally
that Lottie suggests her banishment. However Soroor manages to
keep her without too much noise; he says she used to belong to him.
We met General Warren near Kom Ombos, his friend a little after,
and sailed two hours by the light of Venus, as good as a northern
moon, between the rocky banks to tie up at the sandy island of

Koob an.

February 2, 1889 The wind rose an hour after the sun and soon we

i sighted the old Convent above the Assuan tombs,
“Grenfell tombs” the Britishers call them and say he discovered
them; I ﬁnd them marked on the ninety-year-old French map with-
out any Grenfell. Below them lay the gun maker of Essenl whose
Cook steamer could go no further, the usual channel to the town
south of Elephantine, being now almost dry. We sailed on west of the
Island and had a ﬁne view of the old Deyr you visited with Insinger,
but which Lottie and I had never seen before. The course round the
north end of the Island was narrowed by the black rocks and one
turn was so sharp and the dahabeeyeh was handled so neatly coming
down by the old Quai, in the teeth of a heavy wind, that it quite in-
creased our respect for Reis and crew. I stopped the boat long enough
before the south east face of the Quai to copy ﬁfteen stones, parts of
one inscription. They come from a Temple of Khnum, Lord of Cold-
water (as this place is called) in Ivorytown (Elephantine) and tell
how Thothmes III built it as his memorial to this his father, of good
hewn stone, that he be made immortalg. This mural immortality after
eighteen hundred years was torn down and the stones used as an
enormous foundation, for what, we know not. But the architect re-
spected this grand line enough to put its stones in one course seventh
from the top, and to put the chiselled signs outside and right side up;
had he known how to read them he would probably have put them

I. Krupp.

2. “Catalogue des Monuments et Inscriptions de l’Egypte antique," vol. 1. Vienna, 1894. p. 106—107.
The text quoted by \Vilbour seems to be unknown. See K. Sethe, ”Urkunden der :8 dynastic." vol.
III. Leipzig. 1907, pp. 822—829.

