[CHAPTER THREE

Wednesday I staid in the Museum in the morning; it is nearly in
shape and the treasures are much better seen than before. Piehl has
copied a big book full of texts. In the afternoon Pomeroy took me
over to Matarieh and Heliopolis and we had a charming drive.
Away to the west of the obelisk almost as far as the great mound-
wall which still surrounds the grounds of this vast temple where
Plato studied, I found huge stones, one a fragment of a circle twenty
feet in diameter, others with the cartouches of Ramses II and III;
some of granite, but most of that hard silicate of the near Kom el
Ahmar from which Memnon carried his Colossi up to Thebes. I en-
close a bit of the sweet jasmine which grows under the shadow of the
Virgin’s tree; its fragrance is full of associations.

Thursday another forenoon of Museum loaﬁng. After noon I
bought a lot of little things to hang things on and such, and found
Mrs. Batcheller who told me about being with Will at Mme. For-
ney’s. We, the Judge and I, had another harmonizing of ideas on
American and Anglo—Egyptian subjects; I don’t ﬁnd him so reli-
giously narrow as the Hagens did. At Mrs. Grant’s I found Mrs.
Berkeley. She and her husband have been on their Thames daha-
beyeeh now for two months but have not budged from Cairo yet; I
supposed they had gone up the river. This is their twelfth winter.
She promised me a cup of tea. Mr. Kramer, the Swiss cousin of
Naville who with his wife and their little girls came over with me two
years ago, I found in his new house, which has marble ﬂoors and
stairs and is simply furnished, but in good taste. His wife seems
strong, though thin, and as though she might spend the cooler seven
months of a great many years in her Arab home. Mr. Kramer had
been to the Mooled en Nebi,1 (The birthday of the Prophet) and told
me he had once seen at a Zikr “dervishes meeting for religious exer-
cises” a man suddenly stiffen: the leader put his hands on his head
and breast and made passes and soon straightened him out—a clear
case, he thought, of magnetism. So in the evening Piehl and Mas-
pero’s brother Bazil and I donkeyed up by the barracks of Kasr-
en—Nil and by Ibrahim Pacha’s Palace to the great oblong meadow

 

I. Mooled en Nebi—Sce E. \V. Lane. “Manners and Customs of the Modern Egyptians." London. 1898,
pp. 448 and seq.

192

