[CHAPTER TWO

wife now ﬁfteen years old. Mehemet is not married yet; he is eleven.
It is always a grand thing to go to Karnak and these mighty walls
and pillars seemed very friendly. Even the keeper to whom I had
never given a copper of bakhshish, seemed glad to see me. Here in the
hypostile hall I met the Rhode Island Chapins and tried to interest
them a little in the triumphs of Seti in architecture as well as in bat-
tle.1 The bride’s sister seemed to have a little room left for Egypt, but
the young couple were pretty much absorbed in each other; it all
looked very ugly to Madame. I didn’t suggest that she wasn’t inter-
ested in antiquity; it wouldn’t have been true. Then I looked after
the Temple “F ” of Lepsius and found but a few foundation stones.2
Somebody had walled in the place with part of the stones but most
had been carried away by the people of the village; the keeper told
me he knew their names. So I came back alone with the white donkey
and Mehemet and as we passed the mound of the Salt Pans he told
me that just there lived an Afreet who only ﬁve days ago killed four
men wounding them all on the neck, one on the back, another the
front, others the sides. There was much blood. He saw it. Everybody
went to see it—all the women, and they had gone to Keneh about it.
I agreed with him that we had better go a little faster. I stopped to
see how the Nile is threatening the New Hotel; ten feet more will
take the wall of the dining room, and to see Aly Moorad who wants
to invite us all to dinner on our return and who wants to know when
you are coming. He asked after Gen. Noyes, whom he remembers
with pleasure. Then I bought a stele from Coptos of Mahmood and
took a red glass scarab I had ordered in the morning of his son and
then to dinner and this.

I am very glad to hear that Victor3 likes his teacher so much and is
so deeply interested in what he is doing. The only way really to suc-
ceed with anything is to work at it with all your might and main.

It is half past ten and the post oﬂice is still open just up the bank
from the steamer. At four tomorrow morning this will start on its
way to you and it should reach you in nine days more.

I. The hypostyle hall was begun by Ramses I and completed by Seti I. the decoration was mostly left to
Ramses II. The north walls are decorated with the victories of Seti I.

2. Temple “F.” Ptolemaic building not yet excavated. See Porter-Moss. "Topographical Bibliography."
vol. II. p. 7; Baedeker. “Egypt.” 1929. p. 294.

3. Victor Wilbour. American artist. the son of Charles Edwin Wilbour.

106

