NOVEMBER 1886 TO APRIL 1887]

I do not write you much detail this winter; for I know that others
are writing from fresh impressions and my ﬁrst year as dragoman
rather interferes with research and records.

Now we are looking forward to the Salt sea and to the beauties of
Athens.

..... I ﬁnd that the Granite Statue I bought in Ekhmeem
is of the same Min-mes of whom I found a similar but headless statue1
in ’81 at the house of Aly Moorad. I copied it then and it is now in
Boolak hidden, I think, in a magazine. Now for the afternoon tea and
then we will go on in the F elucca in advance to Beni Sooef where this

will be posted.

CAIRO We arrived here Friday and have been moored off
Monday the Palace of Ibrahim Pacha where we get all the
April 18, 1887 air aﬂoat, and in this weather we need it. Lottie has
concluded not to be in a hurry and so we have put
off going to Athens till next week Wednesday, which will get us there
the twenty—ninth instead of the beginning of the month as we had
counted. But why not? We are in our own four walls and loth to leave
them. Can we not go to pleasant and strange places and yet say what
we will have for dinner? That is what they are doing and nothing but
fervent heat shall drive us away from it. Ned and Victor are doing
our table waiter who wished not to be painted till he had come back
to Cairo and could wear his green dress. So you will see his green
dress, outshining all the rest.

\Ve have done some shopping and seen the Tombs of the Khalifs
and the Mosque of Amir and the Coptic churches in Old Cairo and
spent two afternoons in the Museum. Grébaut, Maspero’s successor,
got down two days before us and has had a bad turn of vertigo, a big
full blooded fellow weighing two hundred and twenty-ﬁve pounds.
Brugsch smiles at the things he has brought down, among them near a
hundred stones from the Stable of Seleeb at Abydos left there by
Mariette and Maspero. But he has a Greek papyrus which is not bad.
He showed us yesterday his new house. ’Tis a pity Mme. Maspero
could not have enjoyed its high airy rooms. We go up then in our

 

1. A. Wiedemann. “Egyptian Notes" in ”Proceedings of the Society of Biblical Archaeology." vol. XXIII.
1901. p. 250.

429

