[CHAPTER FIVE

its. He has been quite anxious, because he thought if there should be
war Austria and Russia would intervene and at the end Turkey
would be sliced again. He believes that the Sultan should seek exten-
sion in Asia to compensate his losses in Europe. An Asiatic Moslem
is a better Turkish subject than a European Christian. I spent my
afternoon in the Polytechneion among the Tanagras, vases and im-
plements. Of these last some are very interesting from their inscrip-
tions. The weather is warm and comfortable and I look toward
Paris.

Monday Your letter came Saturday intimating that there
May 19/31, 1886 was a possibility I might come to Paris. I thought
I would. I went to see the Museum again.

Sunday morning I was awakened by a thunder storm. I accepted
the omen as Zeus’ assent to my leaving; it says that summer is come.
And when in the afternoon I went around by the Hill of Mars and
got some bits for Mother that Paul might have trod on, I was sur-
prised to ﬁnd how cool and salt the fog came in from the sea. It re-
minded me amazingly of Compton. And that revealed to me why
Athenians were so bright. Climate makes character. Pondering
deeply on this great discovery I went down the sixteen slippery
steps and up to the Propyloea and the Parthenon. I said (to myself)
good-bye to them for a time and to the Erechth'eum too and after
two hours came down by Dr. Asklepios’ water-cure to Dionysos’
theatre where I ﬁnished copying the seats of the front row. It was
then dusky but I made a ﬁnal search for Callirrhoe and found that
what Athens calls such is only a returning offshoot of the Ilisos. The
real Callirrhoe which ﬂowed out from under the Temple of Zeus, he
who spoke to me in the morning, is marked by a dry groove cut in the
bed rock. More than half of this has now been covered with rubbish
to bring up this low ground, and the rest will soon be gone.

After dinner Seyfullah and his marine companion gave me their
photograph and I gave them the window in Compton in return. I
went over and spent a pleasant hour with the Frazers. Madame gave
a sprightly account of going to Ephesus with sixteen parsons and
how she could not see the ruins for their quarreling. She likes Athens
but she would like to see a whole statue; to imagine restorations is
wearisome after a time.

402

