[CHAPTERSEVEN

As we near Beni Sooef and a hospital, Aboo Bekr’s ﬁnger heals; I
saw him helping warp this morning. Our two families do a deal of
singing and drumming and I begin to see that the Nubian works with
more pluck and spirit than the Egyptian. They don’ t seem to get
tired; they are like Nefady.

Evening By dint of hard work we have reached Beni

December 17, 1887 Sooef, where this is to be mailed tomorrow. The

sunset was glorious and in one ﬂock I counted

rather roughly six hundred ﬁfty gemal e1 eel/2r, camels of the river, as

they call the long-necked birds. Abdoo, the pilot, says that at night

they have watchmen who stand on one leg and look about, while the
rest squat and sleep ......

December 17, 1887 I hope you will like the new boat, for so she
seems. I send you a lot of bills that you may see
what I have 1n addition to what we put down.

For the bed four feet, eight inches wide, I bought of N aum Bara-
gat, above the Spectacle man, Sussman s in the Moosky, four cotton
sheets at two and a half francs the metre, and of Pascal a wide
blanket, like those of last year in stuff and color. I had a cotton
bolster made. Of dishes only eighteen tumblers and two ﬁre pudding
dishes for Moorgaan. You will need to get thread and needles for
the sewing machine. The men want a new streamer; I have bought
a piece of red and of white at Seleem’s but not blue.

I. Get some blue even if a cook’s apron.

2. Get at Philibin’s, the hardware man two 6o-metre rolls of cord,
clothes line size.

3. Get at Fleurent’s a kilo of butter; I have taken none.

4. Go to the Credit Lyonnais, where I left the two railroad checks.
Endorse them (for when I wanted to use them, I found the en-
dorsements on the letters attached). They will give you any
money you may want and put the rest to our credit, so that
when we need we can have it comeby post as last winter.

You can stay as long as you like at Shepheard’s. Thinking that I
might be past Sioot, Mr. Cook was kind enough to order his express

446

