NOVEMBER 1885 TO MAY 1886]

and ﬁnished my Egyptian girl’s tattoo marksl, all except a few I can-
not make out through her glass shrine. I found one of the German
boys in their Archeological School who is drawing very many of the
Tanagra and Tanagra—like statues. I see a few of these for sale in
different places, but hardly any nice ones.

In a large room down stairs in the Pantechneion is a lot of historic
portraits of this century; among these one woman, the Bouboulina,
renowned as a naval captain in the War of Independence, the Terror
of the Turks. Which reminds me that Comanos gave me a letter to
her son, now Secretary of the Navy at seventy. I have not bothered
him yet as I suppose he has plenty to do. Nor have I been to the
French Archeological School, nor to our Alabama ambassador’s,
though Philo told me that Mrs. Fern would expect me at her recep-
tion last Wednesday evening, if I did not come before. The one
pressing need I feel is to be able to talk to the people, the unParisian-
ized Athenians.

Sunday Only a morning lesson to-day; the Cretan could not
April 18, 1886 give up her Sunday promenade. So, feeling much
better, I ventured up to the Acropolis, studied over
the sacred stones again and passed an hour in the Museum. The
Museum here is more a place for study than for show. There are few
pieces quite beautiful to those who cannot admire precious frag-
ments. The eight statues just found between the Erechtheion and
the Wall are set up in glass shrines and command most attention.
But I cannot love these long ago women with their reddened almond
eyes turned up at the ends . . . . . the corners of the reddened
mouth following; the long, straggling, reddened curls; the uncouth
forms, and the gorgeously bordered, clinging dresses. Nor with the
round-eyed who carried a bull on his shoulders, though he is a strik-
ing reminder of Egypt. I turn rather to the unstolen pieces of the
frieze of the Parthenon and to the amazing Victories; these take hold
on the heart; they make the blood run faster.
I came back southward and looking in at the Theatre of Dionysos
was startled to see the front row of orchestra chairs inscribed with
the names of their proprietors. It was growing dusky and I did not

 

I. The statue of bronze with silver lines inlaid in it. Sec \V. M. Flindcrs Petrie, “The Arts and Craft: of
Ancient Egypt." London, 1909. p. 103 and ﬁg. 111-112.

395

