[CHAPTER TWO

big boat, told me he was not going to pay for the boat if he could help
it. She was a dahabeeyeh hired by Cook and let again; he has eight or
ten such greatly to the disgust of the dragomen. In the afternoon we
began to look for the chamber in the pyramid, the slice being cut
pretty well down. As it did not appear, traces of a pit, found last
Wednesday on the south side, were taken up and work in earnest
begun there. I read a story from Spitta to the Captain and some of
the crew. They seemed much interested and he asked me to read one
every day. Looked over the inscriptions on Seti’s sarcophagus.‘

Monday Continued Seti’s sarcophagus and read the
February 13, 1882 third story to the Captain who served coffee in
honor of the reading. They waited till it was ﬁn-
ished before they told me that the door was found; the man who was
sent after candles got a little of the end of the story. Everybody else
had been there all the afternoon. It indeed seemed to be found, but
there was much clearing to be done before going in. At sunset I care-
fully scraped over the rock on the northwest side within ﬁve feet of
the centre of the pyramid, the slice having been cut down to the bed
rock. It seemed certain that the chamber was beneath in the rock; in-
deed we now think it is.

NEARING LUXOR We are returning without success. The pyramid
Tuesday of Koolah is not open. We have had hopes but to-
February 14, I882 day they are so dashed that we retire and only
threaten the pyramid with “next year.” Last
Wednesday we went up to Koolah. Others expected that work would
go on, but I knew that the feast of the Moolid lasted two days and it
was not in mortal Arab to stay away from it. So when we ﬁrst de-
scried the pyramid and the little telescope showed it unoccupied, I
was not surprised. Just as we arrived we met the Estelle, with whose
lady I had an engagement to read Spitta’s third story.

Tuesday gave us the bitter disappointment of ﬁnding

St. Valentine's Day that our pit was only a Roman tomb. Every-
body felt bad. Maspero could hardly give it up.

_But when it seemed that there was nothing for it but to drill through

1. Sarcophagus of Seti I in the Soane Museum. London; published by Bonomi and Sharpe. "The Alabaster
Sarcophagus of Oimenepthah I." London. 1864.

 

I32

