DECEMBER 1882 TO APRIL 1883]

A300 GIRGEH TO RODAH We meant to stop at Minieh for coal and
Wednesday then to see Beni Hassan again, but
7cmuary 24, I883 Minieh has been left on a sand bank so
severely that the coal would have to be
brought a long way over land and shoal water to us. So as we had
coal enough to get to Rodah, we left Beni-Hassan and the Speos
Artemidos till our return. We are now going ashore at Rodah and I
hope may have a good donkeying tomorrow. I mail this here not
knowing when we may see a Post Ofﬁce again. To-day I have been
concocting developers to see if my photo-apparatus is in order. I
have had to make a measure of cubic centilitres, mine having been
borrowed. My lamp, too, was spoiled by a borrower, but I burn three
or four of those little stubby night—lights in it at once, and they are
handier than the oil-lamp was. It has been cloudy all day, which
Maspero thinks odd as no English soldiers have been seen here. I
suppose it is the few convalescents who have been sent up for a
pleasure trip. However it is not cold; everybody is sitting on deck
without overcoats reading and spying out new beauties in the land.
Mme. was anxious about the Coptic convent whence the black
Christian swims off for his alms and perches himself shivering in the
little boat at the stern, but we unchristianly passed by on the other
side (of the river) and so defrauded our co-religionist out of his
natural show and his consequent coppers.

Evening We have been on shore. An Abyssinian claimed me for his

prey; he would dragoman me. So he answered my Arabic
with his English and tried to buy cheap for me the few antiquities
which the three Greek shop-keepers and a few other people offered.
One old woman ﬁnding out what I wanted said her man must take
me to Shmoonayn in the morning and there we would ﬁnd many;
it was only an hour by donkey. The Greek Volto said he had a
colossal head in alabaster with a ﬁne beard and the nose only a little
injured, in his house at Mellawee only a donkey’s hour up the river.
The Greek Tani showed me a little alabaster hand and stones rather
nicely cut, perhaps of Greek time. Coming back to the boat a man
with turkeys complained that our Mohammed offered him only
two and a half francs for the largest. We have turkey often, stuffed

I97

, p— .
‘ ., n
l l

” l l »

