FEBRUARY 1884. T0 MAY 1884]

before, that the Ptolemaic part of the Temple had not the crocodile-
headed god Sebek, who is so frequent on the Roman part, an instance
of a change of worship which is rare; I shall see if it is not so too at
Philae. Returning to the boat after a little tour I found Lequeur, the
French Consul who with his wife and her three dogs we saw at Luxor.
She is quite young, not a year married and her father, the Spanish
Consul-General Ortega, beside whom I dined with Pomeroy, spoke to
me about them. They don’t amount to much, but we are going to tow
them to Assuan.

I forgot to tell you a good story which Dr. Lansing told us at
Keneh. He overheard a man abusing his boy roundly and instead of
calling him as usual £521 :1 kelb, son of a dog, or £572 63/: shaytan, son of
Satan, or 1'57: 6/ Khanzeer, son of a hog, he called him £571 6! I ngheleez,
son of an Englishman. The glee with which all the people, even those
in ofﬁce, recount the victories of the Mahdi and the proclamation
of Gordon, that England will no longer interfere with the slave trade,
and that she cuts down taxes one-half and acknowledges the Mahdi
Sultan of Kordofan, and the reported reply of the Mahdi that the
taxes not having been collected for some time past, the cutting down
isn’t important and as for Kordofan he has given it to his camel-
driver, indicate which side their sympathies are on even against their
own soldiers. How, said the Mudeer of Keneh to Maspero, can I
work with any heart? An Englishman may come tomorrow to take

my place.

Wednesday Said found in Esneh yesterday an interesting

Fehuary 27, I884 relic of Napoleon’s campaign here, a pipe bowl

which is a little bust of Robespierre, evidently

brought by some soldier of the Revolution. A smaller devil biting
into the back of his neck accommodates the end of the pipe-stem.

We started this morning with the dahabeeyeh in tow which re-
duced our revolutions from twenty—seven to twenty-four only. I went
up on the bridge to take a look at the little Pyramid of Koolah where
two years ago we spent three weeks in vain. I hope there will some
day be money enough to bore a hole through the rock bed into the
tomb, but Maspero seems to have lost interest in it.

277

