[CHAPTER FIVE

Our rainy day has given way to a ﬁne sunset and I write this by
the light of a candle with a reﬂector on it, which is better than the
lamp in the saloon. In my little room everything is handy, clothes,
books, manuscripts and the bronze mask of Medusa. Why does any-
body need more than six feet by seven? We are to run again to-night
for two or three hours to reach Keneh where Maspero hopes to lay
hold on Barrios, and whence we will go to Denderah in the morning.

10:30 P. M. We arrive at Keneh and Barrios left this morning.
Now we shall go on about our business undisturbed
by him, as he is useless except at Keneh.

I have discovered that my day of the week and month watch will
go only when lying on its back or face. To humor it I must have a
pocket on my shoulder or in my hat. As it is, I let it rest on the table.

We had some sand scares to-day. Sunday we were aground twice
for two hours each. It makes the travel interesting to be feeling for
the bottom all the time, to be apprehensive when you hear the cry
“half er speed” (Arabic for “half speed”), to thrill at the sound of the
keel along the river bed and to await the shock which tells you you
are hard and fast and perhaps breaks a piece or two of crockery.
Then come the blessings and the bustle and tussle, ﬁrst with poles
and the turning of the wheels, then with the felucca and the small
anchor by which they try to heave her off with the capstan and at
last with the big anchor which succeeds. And then the white folks
say: Why didn’t they take to that ﬁrst? They don’t: that is their

way, and my water is boiling.

LUXOR At Keneh there was no time for Denderah, I
7anuary 22, 1886 went into the town to Girgis’ house and bought a
few things in bronze, paintable things, and saw

the ﬁve hundred English troops encamped to repel the Soudaneeyeh
who may try to come in that way, and the German Consulate
(which is also the French Consulate) from which Maspero took
bakhshish some good tablets of Greek and Roman time, mainly from
Coptos. Maspero examined the French School and tried to make me
do the English part, but I don’t care to rival the missionaries. Then
we came on to Nagadeh where he went to the French School and I to

350

