 

[CHAPTER THREE

though the women did not tell Mme. anything about them. We
waited in the house until four and they brought upstairs for our
amusement a camel eight days old which seemed to like folks and was
so awkward on its sprawling legs as to be really pretty. I looked in
vain for a trace of the callosities which appear on all parts of the
camel that touch the ground in kneeling; there was not a trace of
them in his thick curly wool. He was made to kneel and could with
difﬁculty get up alone and two men gave him each a mouthful of wa—
ter, putting their lips to his. A twelve-day donkey succeeded but he
was bashful and though he didn’t cry, evidently wanted to go home.
The calf which followed was much older and too heavy to be brought
upstairs. I staid a few minutes after the rest had gone to ﬁnish copy-
ing a stone in the yard and when I came away the hareem lattices
which had before shown only glimpses of bright eyes and ornaments,
were quite open and the women were looking out as freely as if I were
an old man. I said good-bye to them and to blind Old Seleeb, who
has now come to recognize the voice of the “Amerikanee” and for the
better part of the two hours return, followed afar off, enough to keep
out of the dust and to see, not a company of Howaga, but Egyptian
men and things.

THE CLOTHES or We steam to Sioot. Towards night a heavy Nor-
EKHMEEN ther which is almost a gale after our arrival.
Friday Charmes’ eyes follow mine, which are not yet
Marc/130, I883 quite well and for which this high wind is not
good. Maspero had an idea of stopping at Ekh-
meen, not to ﬁnd the famous tombs which we have not yet seen but
some graves where there are said to be ﬁne mummy cloths.l The old
Panopolis was renowned for these and still we see the weavers along
the market. Last year a man accosted me in Assuan who reminded
he had seen me in Ekhmeem and then I saw he was the Chief of the
Weavers. But luckily the man who knew the place was not to be
found.

Do not worry about France, nor pay attention to the gabble of her
enemies. The anarchists are fostered by the Ministry which wishes

I. G. Maspero. “Premier rapport sur les fouilles exécutées en Egypte de 1881 a 1885." in “Bibliothéque
Egyptologique.” vol. 1. Paris. 1893, pp. 214—219; "Deuxiéme rapport" . . . 1885—1886, ibidem. pp.
233—234-

244

