[CHAPTER FOUR

Mohassib’s house.l Mustapha Aga has sold two of his to an M. P.,
Mr. Story of Sunderland, for ten pounds each. Sutro had something
useful to say about the Great Pillar Hall; I thought so because it sus-
tained my theory that to preserve the stone the earth should be
removed as much as possible. The earth is saturated with saltpeter
which in the inundation makes a strong saltpeter solution that satu-
rates the stonog then in the winter when the earth and stone dry, the
saltpeter in the stone crystallizes and disintegrates the stone. It is like
the action of frost on stone which absorbs water. And yet the people
about the Museum are always talking of covering things here to
preserve them. They learned that in the tombs of Gizeh and Sakkarah
where the sand is pure and does preserve.

Sunday To-day the Gebelei'n mummies were put on Aly

March 16, 1884 Moorad’s boat, which Maspero has chartered as

last year, and we received a new cargo from

Qoornah. These are better ones, some from the ﬁnds of last year and

some from Shnoodeh’s digging this year. One had the longest Egyp-

tian name I have seen yet; Nes-chonsu--pe-Khrud-Hor-se-Ast,2 which,
however, falls far short of—

Louise Justine Elisabeth Catherine Therese Madeleine Balluet
d’Estournelles de Constant de Rebecque Maspero, as I took it
down to-day. She is better and goes out for the ﬁrst time. For the
ﬁrst time too in a dress not black.

I looked over Mohammed Mohassib's Kicks/zin3 as he calls it, again
and found a little symbol of Neith, the shuttle in carnelian; Maspero
says he has bought one in Cairo, and a little dog which he thinks is
biscuit and modern and a bronze cornucopia. I am getting a lot of
stuH.

Monday F ifty—one today, and I am older than last year. I
March 17, 1884 am waiting for the postal boat which should bring
me letters from you. Aly Moorad showed me this

morning an Arabic letter from Pomeroy with the stamp of the Con-

1. The Gebelein mummies bought by Dr. Sutro are kept to-day at the Sutro— Baths at San Francisco.

2. Perhaps the cofﬁn described in "Notice des principaux monuments exposes au Musée de Gizeh." Cairo.
1895. p. 328, no. 1252 from Hassaia near Edfou. See G. Maspero. "Notes sur quelques points de gram-
maire et d'I-Iistoire." in “Zeitschrift fiir agyptische Sprache." vol. XXIII. 1885. pp. 3—4.

3. Kickshin—for collection.

292

