DECEMBER 1882 TO APRIL 1883]

his life today to the Tombs of the Kings, on a show trip with Guy
Lussac, and returned over the mountain, as he did two years ago
after an hour or two. Lefébure stays there and in Qoornah constantly;
he has not been to Luxor for a month and he will after another
month when he goes to Cairo, know more about this valley than any—
body else. His scholars ridicule him for it and stay at the hotel most
of the time, where they are important in the eyes ofvisitors. I went to
Karnak and tonight the Bishop of Limerick is over to inquire about
the Coptic inscriptions found in the tomb of Sebekaa. He thinks he
will print something about them in England and tells good stories
about how he has tried to get something out of the Vatican Library
and failed even with Cardinal Antonelli’s backing.

.Monday . . . . . Do not fear for France, there is no crisis.
.March 5, 1883 She is learning to do without a personal government,
to be a real Republic. The death of Gambetta is a

necessary step toward that. We go south tomorrow for ten days.

THE RENEGADE JEW The paddles moved in the morning and I got
Tuesday out in time to see the chimneys and groves of
Marc}: 6, I883 Erment. We made a long call on Mme. Bouil-
lon who entertained us mostly with talk

about her baby boy, too bashful to see us, and walked in the ﬁne
garden. Then Guy Lussac came on board leaving his long—nosed
General G ..... alone to ﬁnd his way back to Cairo where he has to
play in a Charade or something at Lady Dufferin’s next V‘Vednesday.
He is old, but is a widower, a Jew renegade to the Church of England
like Disraeli who put him in this place. Like most Englishmen here on
large salaries, he does nothing but draw his salary. No; he writes a
letter to the Times twice a year about something or nothing. Guy
Lussac, who is an engineer and has been here ten years runs the
Daira. After breakfast we landed at Esneh and went to the temple.
Piehl and I copied a little and Maspero drew his salary. Vassilli talks
of resigning in the spring, andBouriant will doubtless ﬁll the vacancy.
The English may want the place, but Maspero will stickhard to him.
Whether it be the imminence ofoﬁ‘icialityI know not,but Bouriant is
losing his interest apparently in copying; more than two—thirds of our
days in Luxor he has spent on the boat. Piehl is keenly aware of this.

227

