 

NOVEMBER 1890 TO MAY 1891]

him preach. Pagnon’s mother is no more and Mme. Auber is with her
husband in France; another sister with two daughters is with him.
The Beercus are on their way down, not having quarreled with the
Clarks, white bearded he and youthful she, Rhode Islanders of Paw—
tucket. Mother Grébaut told us of the great ﬁnd, found by Mo-
hammed Abd-er-Rasool. Afterwards Grébaut told us that he himself
had selected the place to dig, northeast of Deir el Bahari where no
tomb was known for a considerable space. It turned out to be a hole
ﬁfty feet down and then under the mountain where a lot of holy
mummies were hidden, probably at the same time as the great Kings.l
They had counted two hundred thirty, not all, and of sixty of these
inventoried, forty were pallacides of Amon and twenty priests and
holy fathers, all of the Twenty—ﬁrst Dynasty. The cases are mostly
very ﬁne and there are many thousand small objects. It was a sight
to see the long procession of mummies borne on men’s shoulders com-
ing from the mountain across the green ﬁelds to the boats. We saw it
from Medeenet Haboo one day, whither we had gone to see great
excavations. More work has been done there this year than before in
my time, and the earth moved from Luxor’s temple must be half of
all removed from it. Portable railways are used for the ﬁrst time and
with great success, saving, Grébaut says, three-quarters of the ex-
pense. My old friend Aboo Gamb, who had taken me into scores of
tombs and who always saved for me the things he thought unique,
walking to Keneh with some anteekeh and some guineas was way-
laid three months ago and his body found in the river near Dishneh.
He lived near old Kamoorry, also gone. Even here my friends are
going. I worked a little in the birth—room of the temple of Luxor and
on a long text in Medeenet Haboo. An inscription has been found
on the front of the Amenophis part of the Luxor temple of the time of
Philip Arrhideus and Ptolemy Alexander which tells of a restoration
and how much it cost2. In the Ramses part is a bas relief of the front,
as complete, with the obelisks, masts, banners and statues, these last
turned to proﬁle; this is quite interesting as the doorway is now

 

 

1. The second ﬁnd of Deir cl Bahari: Georges Daressy. "La sépulture des Prétrcs d’Amon a Deir e1 Bahari."
in “Annalee du Service des Antiquités." vol. I. 1900. pp. 141-148; “Les Cercucils des Prétres d'Amon."
ibidem, vol. VIII, 1907, pp. 3—38.

2. G. Daressy, "Notes et Remarqucs." §LIV. in “Recueil de Travaux." vol. XIV. 1893. p. 33.

587

