[CHAPTER FIVE

They laid over in Hanover and we came on to the Hotel Hauffe,
from which we once saw the October fair through the mud and rain.

Next morning, the thirtieth of December, I went to Brockhaus’
big place built about three large ornamented courts and was soon in
the midst of Lepsius’ library, in which I still spend my waking hours
when I don’t bring books away to look over. Brockhaus (the Dr., for
there are two) invited me to a party in the evening, but I excused
myself from the forty black coats because I had none, and went to
one o’clock dinner with him next day, which was much better. His
wife is a very pleasant woman and talked much about Egypt and
America and her ﬁve boys were all with us at table. The eldest, with
his father and Uncle Rudolph, are the ﬁrm.

Tuesday evening as I went out of the Hauffe to sup, because they
did not serve me at the table I chose, I was followed into the Hotel
de Prusse by a dark visaged foreigner, whom I after a while recog-
nized as your cousin Ellen’s husband. He was not sure of me in the
street, but pinned me in the Restaurant. We went around the corner
to see her and found a very comfortable place ...... He is a
matriculated student in Theology and means to stay a year here
and then take the year’s travel they started for. Ellen thinks it isn’t
much like their religion at home. Wednesday I bethought me of an
address Professor Hewett of Cornell gave me in Leyden seven years
ago and went to Frau verw. Ottilie Charlotte Rothe. She can talk
German so that an American, even though deaf, can understand it.
She had no room for me but found one with morning coffee at the
next number, where I am writing, under the protection of another
widow, who is to extort from me twelve marks for half a month and
who straightway proceeded to wash the floor. I measured the floor-
boards; they are thirty inches wide. Frau Rothe furnishes me dinner
at one mark and supper at seventy-ﬁve pfennig; also a Fraulein
Rothe, who copies marginal notes with acuteness and dispatch. It
took me some time to get the hang of my bed. I tried to do without
the featherbed, but could not get enough clothing to keep warm. Now
I have learned to yard it (with two chairs) so that I do not have to
keep awake to keep it on, and I can get bed clothing enough to cover
the upper half of me. The stove smells a little but I am getting used
to it. And this widow is a very good washerwoman.

328

