[CHAPTEREIGHT

in the inscribed caves he heard of in out of the way places where he
goes to inspect his men. He described to me the Caves at Meirl, says
there are vipers there and many hieroglyphics. He has told Grébaut
about them. He hears that there are tombs at El Gharaim, west of
Tama, where our old Assuan friend Hassan Bey is now stationed.
Mrs. Johnson was glad to ﬁnd us in the same place as last year; her
husband had then begun a sketch with the Seven Hat/20m in it. Mr.
Fiske told me for the ﬁrst time something about his suit with Cor-
nell; just decided in his favor. I told him that at the beginning of it
I had seen what the other side printed in the N. Y. Time: and from
that I had concluded he was right.

LUXOR I went with President White to Karnak and
yanuary 19, 1889 gave him a sort of chronological View beginning
with Maut’s horse-shoe lake and Temple, then

passing by the four propylons to the older part of the Ammon Tem-
ple, thence westward to the newer part and so by Shishak’s gate to
the Khonsoo and Apet Temples. They did not build so as to make an
exact sequence by donkey and by centuries, this is as nearly as we
can reconcile‘them. It is a pleasure to see the effect of Karnak on such
a man. Afternoon we took Mr. 8: Mrs. John Boyd Thatcher, 5 S.
Hawk St., Albany, introduced by Mr. Fiske, over to the Island to see
English sports done by natives on the sands, the ﬁrst I have seen so
far up the river. Mr. Thatcher, Ex—State Senator, journeyed in a
Canal boat from Buffalo to Albany stumping for Cleveland and is
hoarse yet. She seems a pleasant companion and talks much about

their photographing.

yanuary 20,1889 Showed my books to Messrs. White 81 Fiske.

Went afternoon to see Mr. Newman’s water-
colors, Italian and Egyptian. He seemed wearied with showing them,
one after another, and they were scantly praised, though they cost
him enormous patient labor. He does them by the inch and can tell
before hand just how many days one will take him, say six weeks
mornings for about ten by fourteen, near an hour to the square inch.
And he does his inch, ﬁnishing it in each hour. It looks like a colored

 

1. A. M. Blackman.‘ ‘The Rock Tombs of Meir." 4vols. London. 1914. 1915. and 1924. Vol. I. p. 14: "The
attention of the Department of Antiquities was ﬁrst drawn to Meir in the year 1890.. . . "

506

