DECEMBER 1882 TO APRIL 1883]

found here; I do not know that it has been published.l M. Maspero
thinks he will take it to Boolak. It is by the Emperor Nerva to Isis,
as is another stone which M. Maspero bought in the town for the
Museum. This other is also of the time of Nerva and to Isis; it tells
how the Rhetor Didymus Theon son placed statue and naos and
accompaniments in some atrium of hers under Governor—general
Pompey Proclusson. I copied some stones, found Khem, the Nome-
god with his Isis and the cartouches of the Tenth Ptolemy on blocks
used for a later building, perhaps a church, took some angles and a
look at our last year’s discovery, the granite Roman temple half a
mile northeast, and then returned, bargaining for a few stones
deemed precious by the Egyptians of old, and for which the new peo—
ple keep up the same respect. At the bridge I found M. Maspero
whom I had not seen since I found the Greek inscription; but the
Arabs who had seen me read it had told him about it and Bouriant
was copying it.

LUXOR It is afternoon and all necks are strained toward Thebes;

pylons and obelisks come out one after another, the forms of
the mountains are recognized and everybody seems to be anticipat-
ing. It is as when you approach Rome only more so, and vastly more
so.
Aly Moorad saluted us with gunshots and so did Todros; Mus-
tapha’s house was silent. When we scanned the shore and saw our
acquaintances and they scanned us and grinned and a Greek trading
dahabeeyeh moved out of our way and we tied up to the same stones
of the old quay that we tied to last year, and the new moon (last
year’s having been dismissed for Arabism) and Todros the Younger
and Aly Moorad came to see us and I returned his visit and saw the
sunset from his balcony, you do not yet know how much that means,
but when you have seen it, you will never forget it. It is the river and
the mountain of Bridgman’s picture glowing with the transforming
glory of the Sacred Sunset, over the grand tombs of the Mighty
Dead. More than a million times has this transforming miracle been
wrought and of the millions of times it has yet to be before the sun
ﬁres shall fail and our system cease to be habitable I hope that you
may enjoy not a few.

I. E. Breccia. "Catalogue général des antiquités égyptiennes du Musée d'Alexandrie”-—“Iscrizioni greche
e latine." Cairo. 1911, no. 62, pp. 46-47. and pl. XVII. 45.

207

l] i l gil- J l .I' x r ll'“‘~* l :I l l

