 

OCTOBER 1881 T0 APRIL 1882]

Friday “7e came up to El Koolah, a miniature Step Pyra—

j‘fanuary 6, 1882 mid, alone here in Upper Egypt.1 Maspero decided

to open it. But as the side toward the village faces

40° west of magnetic North and the river side 50° East and the varia-

tion of the needle is enough to equalize these ﬁgures, it is diﬂicult to

tell which side to begin on; you know that all the Pyramids are en-
tered from the north side.

Then we came a little farther to El Kab, where I had two pleasant
days last winter with the Temples and Tombs and Elsen; may Allah
save him from the Soodan! We went over the great fortress wall into
the old town and the enclosure of the temples, before noon, and
after up to the grottoes where we all copied industriously till dusk.
In Stau-au’s tomb he boasts, among his goodnesses, that when he
was a boy he never said anything in mockery and Beba, he of the
famine in Brugsch’s H istory,2 gives after each of his sons, the portrait
and name of the son’s nurse. A good funerary text in Ranni’s grave,3
makes an addition to Maspero’s paper in his Etudes Egyptologiques,
and I corrected a lot of copies I had accumulated. Somebody had
tried since they were made, to cut out a scene, had broken and aban-
doned it, but he has destroyed one of the best pieces of thirty-ﬁve
hundred years old drawing.

Saturday After breakfast we went across the river and an
7anuary 7, I882 hour southwest to the site of what the Greeks
called Hawktown; the Egyptians gave it the same

name as El Kab.‘ Here we found a smaller fortress with huge walls of
unburnt brick, surrounded by a thinner and lower wall. About it are
the ruins of a city where the fellaheen were digging sebakh. Further
southwest in a pyramidal mountain there are a score of tombs, three
of which are sculptured, that of Thoth of the time of Thothmes I,
that of Messrs. Fekh and Thothmes and Mme. Aahmes, and around
the mountain to the left, that of Horames, the ﬁrst prophet of the

1. Near the village of Basiliya. Baedeker, “Egypt." 1928. p. 364.

2. H. Brugsch-bey. ”A History of Egypt under the Pharaohs." 2nd edit. London. 1881. vol. I. pp. 279—288
and 304 (for the famine): the inscription with the names of nurses is in Lepsius. “Denkmaler.” Text.
Vol. W. p. 53.

3. Ranni's tomb: See J. J. Tylor. “Wall Drawings and Monuments of E1 Kab—The Tomb of Renni."
London. 1900.

4. Hawktown—Hierakonpolis. The fortress and the city were excavated by J. E. Quibell and F. W. Green
in 1898: Hierakonpolis. London. 1900 and 1902.

109

