NOVEMBER 1885 T0 MAY 1886]

boat yesterday, but went on to Assuan. He said there was a Miss
Muller, an English VVoman’s Rights Woman on board, with a secre-
tary; they spent much time writing.

For photographing pictures I hear of a new invention, “Plaques
isochromatiques, par Tailfer and Clayton,” said to be obtainable at
all good photographic furnishers in Paris. Petrie writes me that he
has tried them and that they give to each color its just value, not
making yellow black and blue white like ordinary plates. Those
marked “red” are for photographing pictures.

I went to the Luxor ring maker, Michael, and changed the size of
Dora’s ring; the rascal had not touched the work, but he promises it
“bookra.”l .

LUXOR Dora’s ring was brought to me by Tanyos this
Friday morning. Everybody thinks it very pretty, and
Feéruary 5, 1886 Michael will get some orders in consequence.
Wednesday we went over to see a newly dis-
covered tomb in the horse shoe west of Deir el Medeenet.2 The eight
mummies large and two or-three small and all their funerary appara-
tus, a share of which you may some day see in the Metropolitan
Museum in New York, had been brought over the day before, and
the deck covered therewith, besides ﬁlling Mme. Maspero’s room and
leaving a few things for the salon. There is a ﬁgurative box for each
and a chair and a low bed and no end of things, even a decorated
door, a thing I have not seen before. The tomb is down a well and
along an incline and then down a shallow well and another slope; it is
about two and a half yards by six and is ﬁlled with scenes from the
book of the dead, except two of the family. All are drawn as by a mas-
ter carelessly on the stucco which covers the inequalities of the rock.
Mr. Insinger is photographing it, with magnesium, for not a ray of
sunlight can get in. Then it will be ﬁlled up and nobody will know
where to ﬁnd it again, except me who have put it in my map as
thirty-three metres, magnetic east ﬁve degrees south from an open
tomb in the side of the rock made for the same Mr. Sweetbrother and
his same wife Mrs. F aircome.3 It is evident that the open tomb was

I. Bookra. Arabic for to—morrow.

2. Tomb of Sen-nodem. No. I of Porter-Moss. “Topographical Bibliography." vol. 1. Oxford. 1927, pp.
53-54.

3. Sweetbrother = Sen-modem; Faircome = Iy-nefer.

359

