DECEMBER 1880 TO APRIL 1881]

Miss Harris still possesses and I accepted her invitation to call again
on my return; she would be very glad to see Professor Eisenlohr
again, whom she scolded a little. Very bright and lively she is with
her ﬁfty years and Brugsch tells me there is talk of her marrying a
young Englishman. Mounib was in the directory as ﬁrst assistant of
the juge d’instruction in the préfecture. In the morning I went to the
address he had given me; the bawwab said he would be in at four
o’clock and I left my card. After looking about the shops, hunting
up the photographs of the Statue at Athens and M. Allemant,1 the
Paris vendor of Egyptian antiquities. who showed me a very ﬁne
bronze cat’s head one of some ﬁve hundred found two or three
months ago at Tell Moukhdam,2 and who wishes me to make some
excavations in Lower Egypt with him when I come down, I took the
train at two-thirty P. M. leaving the two big trunks with Cook’s
agent in the Hotel, who said he could send them for about one-ﬁfth
of what it would cost to take them with me. Elsen and his riﬂes were
along. His kavars had come and he had got through easily. ’Twas
new to see ticket and receipt for luggage in Arabic and French; I
could read the Arabic ﬁgures on the receipt for my baggage—
thirty-two Piastres tariff, each worth ﬁve cents and twenty paras of
which forty make a Piastre tariff. For ten francs I received seven P.T.
change, and this was my introduction to the currency, for I had
ignominiously bought my ticket of Cook’s man.

December 30, 1880 I have almost forgotten how we came that day,

how strange it was to see a camel stretching up
his neck from his burden so that you were not quite sure but he was
an ostrich, how the blue lotos peered out from the water beside the
way, how it seemed like Holland in ﬂatness and watery land and
canals and wideness of the sky. At Damanhour there was a market
day; we saw masses of people there and the road running alongside
the railway, we for two or three miles overtook those who were go-
ing home with their purchases; a buffalo cow and calf; a big red
chest, like a sailor’s or a carpenter’s, donkey back, steadied by the

1. E. Allernant. former dragoman to H. M.. Sultan Abd-ul-Aziz. See his "Description historique et re-
ligieuse des monuments découverts sur les lieux par l'auteur," London 1878. Part of this collection was
bought by the Museum of Antwerp in Belgium: A. Blomme, "l'Egyptologie en Belgique." Anvers. 1909.

2. Tell Muqdﬂm (Baedeker. "Egypt." 1929. p. 184) must be a mistake for Tell Bastz‘i (B. p. 181). See
G. Maspero. "Sur une Trouvaille de chats." in “La Nature." Paris. Vol. XXXV. 1890. pp. 273-274.

7

