[CHAPTER EIGHT

March 22, 1889 Our men’s bread was ﬁnished yesterday and on
board, but the wind forbids. So we called on Mrs.
Johnson; they returned from Cairo yesterday to their pleasantly fur-
nished house near the river. Omar told me of new work in the moun-
tain and took me after noon to a considerable excavation, quite
grandiose, which Mohammed Halfawee, with permission from Gré-
baut, was making. It is only a few rods north of the end of the cause-
way, perhaps one third of the way to the cemetary, and thirty or
forty feet up. A narrow way cut through rock leads to an open place,
on the north side of which are two rock chambers, the door of the
farthermost being inscribed in the name of the same Hap-jef whose
two tombs have been a wonder for many years. Why two? And now
it is, Why three? Two or three broken steles have been found and an
offering table with name of Hap-jef‘. Digging is only begun on the
north side of the place. Above six feet of sand is a four or ﬁve foot
layer of jackal mummies in pots, some of which are ornamented.
Their shape and decoration is wonderfully varied. One had a face
with protruding tongue; many had raised work. I remember too, a
hawk-headed Sphinx with the beginning of a Demotic inscription.
To ﬁnish the work Mohammed Halfawee thinks would take two hun-
dred pounds. Returning we tea—ed with Mrs. Johnson, who with her
Pasha are very naturally hospitable. He was instrumental in the
release ofHanna Kerass, but had not yet heard that he was out.

Marc/2 23, 1889 Johnson, who is at the head of the police in Upper

Egypt, and who seems to know Arabic well, says
he has twice prevented the establishment of the new native Court at
Sioot; he believes that the old way is the best and it is a great mistake
to try to introduce European ways and laws. We came on without
much wind to Manfaloot.

Marc/z 24, 1889 A south wind today; we made much progress, to

Mellawee and the lamp at evening drew in one of
the plagues of Egypt, ﬂies so small that they came through our
screens in thousands. Thermometer 86° at six P. M.

 

I. See Ahmed bey Kamel, “Tables d'oﬁ‘randes" (“Catalogue général du Musée du Caire"). Cairo. I909. no.
230-42. pp. 37-38-

528

