NOVEMBER 1888 T0 JULY 1889]

March 25, 1889 South wind and ﬂies continued; thermometer 88°
at ﬁve o’clock. At dark I went to the post ofﬁce at
Minieh and waited an hour for it to open. An intelligent young
Minieh-born Greek tobacconist entertained me. He disapproves of
unmarried priests, having been taught French by the Jesuits at
Cairo, thinks the English have ruined business and that the rise in
tobacco will not decrease the cash amount consumed by the fella-
heen. They have the habit of buying by the piastre or quarter pias-
tre’s worth; they get less, smoke less, and are all the better for it.

March 26, 1889 Last evening the wind suddenly rose and swept

out the tiny plagues at a whiff. Welcome Old
Boreas! But this morning it is warmer again. The south wind speeds
us on through a still warmer day, 94° at four o’clock, to Malateeyeh.
We were once two and a half hours on the sand and saw many boats
stranded and struggling. Another plague of minute ﬂies and then, as
last evening, about ten the north wind swept them out in a moment
this time to stay. I have been reading to Lottie Charles Blanc’s
Voyage to Egypt at the Suez Canal Opening‘, and she appreciates it
much more than I, perhaps because she does not see so clearly its
mistakes. It seems to me very meager. The main thing which he
says of Egyptian art, he congratulates himself on having said before
he came: that it gives types rather than portraits. But the pure-
blood Egyptian was apt to be a type.

Mare}: 27, I889 The north wind so continued that we stayed at

Malateeyeh. Nefady and I went over the bottles
in the cellar, mostly bought for our ﬁrst voyage. About half remain.
Some had lost their marks and had to be recorked and sealed and
marked, which Dora and I with some assistance did two days after-
wards.

March 28, 1889 We struggled awhile and Boreas won and then we
took the felucca and rowed down past El Fent
nearly to Feshn along the west side of a three or four mile island.

 

r. A. Blane. “Voyage de la Haute Egypte. Observations sure les arts egyptiens ct arabe." Paris. 1876.
El-Hibeh see Murray. “Egypt," 1880, pp. 399—400.

529

