DECEMBER 1880 TO APRIL 1881]

In the afternoon to the mosque El Azhar where the thousands of
learners great and small were writing on and studying or reciting
from tin or zinc slates on which they wrote, many with great ele—
gance. These seem to have taken the place of the whitened boards
used only a few years ago as they were a few thousand years ago. All
sat on the pavement, a part of which was covered with mats, and a
gently vibrating motion backward and forward seemed necessary to
the digestion of their mental food. I am not sure that there is not real
physiology in this; often times one thinks better by walking gently;
certainly a good circulation of the blood is necessary to good think-
ing. In this mosque they live; at the gate of the Barbers they were
having their heads shaved; their bread was piled up in a part of the
Court; some had pulled their outer garment over their heads and
were asleep; one I saw with his on the stones reducing its population.

In the evening to the Coptic Church where I saw a few moments
of their Christmas eve service. A loud church, not without a certain
grandeur, with gilded pictures of saints and angels which remind us
of the Byzantine mosaics, the “temple” cut off from the worshippers
by a partition with only an open door between, the choir boys and
priests inside, the papa occasionally coming outside, then going back
to poke the boys into line, the women all in high-latticed galleries
out of harm’s way, among them a man taking money to burn in-
cense for souls. They gave him as many grains of rice as they wished
souls ediﬁed and he burned them in the incense.

I forgot to say that after El Azhar we went to the mosque of Sultan
Hassan where the showman assured us that he had lain down twelve
times in the Doseh and the horse had never hurt him; he hurt only
bad men who had spoken bad things about people or who had drunk
wine; he hated them, but good men he stepped lightly on.1 My Ameen
says the same thing; he also has lain down and the horse stepped on
him but did not hurt him. But alas he drank wine while we were at
Sakkarah.

To-day I took Colonel Mckaye to the Vice-regal Library and
started him in studying Lepsius on the Tombs they showed us at the

I. The Diseh: ”On certain occasions the sheykh of the Saadeyeh rides on horseback over the bodies of a
number of his darweeshes and other persons, who throw themselves on the ground for the purpose; and
all assert that they are not injured by the tread of the horse." E. W. Lane. "An Account of the Manners
and Customs of the Modern Egyptians." London. 1898, p. 251 and the picture on p. 458. See also Lady
Duff-Gordon's "Letters from Egypt." Revised edition by Janet Ross. London. 1902, pp. 293—4 and
A. H. Sayce.“Reminiscences." London. 1923. p. 2:3.

I9

