[CHAPTERSIX

make him an ornament to the Museum. Then, on the way down, I
stopped the boat three hours and spent two in the Temple of Toud
where there are plenty of interesting and quite unknown texts. And
at night we tied up in Luxor. Lottie’s birthday.

We ﬁnd here Miss Plankington, suffering from too much courier
and dragoman, and Insinger whose little steamer works marvelously
well and who is delighted with our Roman glass, and all the Luxor
folk. Three or four have papyrus to show me; Todros asks me to
come and see some bronze tools which he thinks (and I too) unlike
anything he has seen before.

Grébaut came down last night with the Museum steamer. He put
on board an altar1 found in a house in Esneh, with the name of King
Sabaco, and a big stone with the cartouche of Thothmes III, which
indicates the present temple there a rebuilding of an old one. This is
the story everywhere in Egypt and the world. Nothing is new.
Everything is hash from yesterday’s roast; we included.

BETWEEN LUXOR ..... We left Luxor yesterday, and In-
AND KENEH singer and Grébaut who will stay much longer. I
Mare]: 16, [887 think the descriptions you have had from fresh
writers will be more interesting than mine; so I

spare you them. It is getting to be quite warm, but as yet nobody
has suffered much from the heat and we are not in a hurry to leave
our Nile house—they all seem to enjoy it. Victor ﬁnds lots of faces to
copy and Ned has work for forty-four hours a day. Linnie and Dora
take much more interest in the natives than I had hoped; Zoe would
have been delighted with them, but I feared the elder girls might be
disgusted at their lack of cleanliness. They have both learned con-
siderable Arabic and get much amusement from their conversations
—Lottie, too, has been able to ride about a good deal on the Egyp.
tian donkey, really as good a vehicle as I know this side of Polly’s
buggy. Yesterday morning we left Luxor and stopped at N egadeh to
see Father Samuel, an Italian priest here ﬁfty years. He was glad to
see me and told them about his life, how he had built four churches,
made twelve hundred Copts Catholics, and baptized no less than

 

I. Not an altar but a shrine: see Gunther Roeder, "Naos- (Catalogue général du Muoée du Cain)." Leip-
zig. 1914, no. 70007. pp. 25—28 and pl. VII.

426

