[CHAPTER TWO

of one and the lotuses about another and the wasp embalmed with
the rest. Did I tell you of the two giant mummies or rather mummy
cases of two Eighteenth Dynasty queens, which are near nine feet
long? They are the only colossal cases I have yet seen. In the after-
noon the Consul came again for me and we drove out on the Shoo-
bra road, more thronged than before this year, but I did not see many
nice-looking people.

The twenty-second is the Mohammedan New Years. The weather
is getting to be comfortable and the mosquitoes few.

..... They tell me no dahabeeyehs have yet been let except
those let by Cook in London. The rumors of cholera and Khedivial
cataclysms will doubtless soothe Egyptian aspirations for this year.
Old Mustapha Aga of Luxor came to see me; his health is much bet-
ter and he is trying to exculpate himself from complicity with the
Abd—er-Rasools, which seems to worry him. He says Mohammed Abd-
er—Rasool stripped the place of the most valuable things before giving
it up, and even robbed the mummies and cases of their gilded parts.

They look so.

CAIRO We make haste slowly; the cylinder will perhaps

Sunday come on board Wednesday; then it must be

Noveméer 20, 1881 ﬁxed and fussed with and perhaps we may be off

in eight or ten days. M. Maspero is going to

have some grand rooms in the extension and the work on it is getting

well started. I think now I will not go on board till after the hammer—
ing of the machine is done.

I have worked three days in the Viceroy’s library where Spitta is
the Chief, on my Index, ﬁnishing those parts which will be most use-
ful to us this winter. It has also been a sort of Hagens week. Tuesday
I called at eight-thirty; Madame had already retired. The Judge told
me all about his Court work and that I ought to call on Mme. Wacyf.
I said I was afraid. Then he agreed to take me which he did next day.
\Ve found Wacyf who appears extremely well at home in an apart-
ment, the furniture and arrangement of which would please you very

78

