[CHAPTER ONE

and make lists of something on the occasion of Ramses III’s ﬁrst
thirty-year festival, that he went to the Temple of Ramses 11 (per-
haps the one I found usurped by Ptolemies) and that he received
from the King himself the command of the ship “The Hand Divine.”l
A handsome panther in one of the boats indicates that he brought
back some curiosities. A great religious inscription, now mostly gone,
covered the rear as in Pa—Hir’s tomb. On the east side a fragment left
says he died in the fourth year of Ramses IX.

ﬂa/zmes. This, the best known of the Tombs lS everywhere de-
scribed. Mr. de Rougt’:2 wrote a book on seven lines of the thirty-line
historical 1nscription, in which for the ﬁrst time was read every word
of a hieroglyphic text; the little words had previously been passed
over. This is on the west side of Tomb. In front are, west of door, the
eight additional lines, and east of the door, the list of slaves pub-
lished by Lepsius. In the rear is an offering by his grandson to himself
and his wife Apoo and on the west side half of which is unﬁnished,
more offerings.

6. A tablet on the rear, perhaps all that was ever inscribed, says
the Captain of his Majesty, Amon-mes made it to perpetuate the
name of his father the Captain of his Majesty Apoosneb.

7. A niche, perhaps the beginning of a tomb, beside which is a line
of inscription of high priest and cake-cooker of the town of Nekheb,
Amon-mes.

8. Rermz', a ﬁne tomb, but much in need of repair. There is no
front, the door being broken out to the sides. The rear had a statue,
now gone, and some offerings thereto. The west side is in Lepsius,
curious for ﬁfteen hundred pigs, whose tails have the orthodox curl
and the east side is I think in Wilkinson. It exhibits funeral rites,
men drawing the sitting statue to the tomb, cows drawing a standing
statue, mummiﬁcation, puriﬁcation, the ceremony of opening the
mouth of the mummy with the iron, mourners, priests and offerings

and what they say.

9. Seéek. Mostly destroyed; Champollion found something here
which indicates that he was a regulator of disputes in regard to lands.

1. Setau: See J. H. Breasted. ”Ancient Records." vol. IV. “14-415.
2. E. de Rouge, “Mémoire sur l'Inscn'ption du tombeau d'Ahmés. chef des nautoniers." Paris. 1851; a
paper famous in the history of Egyptology.

4o

