FEBRUARY 1884. T0 MAY 1884.]

Saturday the twenty-second I went to ﬁnish charting the graves of
Der e1 Medeenet and Sheikh Abd e1 Qoornah. Breakfasting in Ram-
ses III’s temple at Medeenet Haboo, I found two American women,
one named Woodhull, who have spent the winter at Beyroot. They
knew people there whom I had seen here. They had come up for two
days of Thebes (it'seemed they were too pious to count Sunday as a
sightseeing day) and were very busy doing the temple—on a carpet.
They asked me to show them the scenes where the King is repre-
sented in the bosoms of his family,1 and for that were willing to brave
the sun. Much of the stone used in the building of these Medeenet
Haboo temples is from an elder structure of Ramses II and I noticed
what I had never noticed before, that the ark of Ammon which has a
room to itself behind the Treasury rooms,is not of Ramses III but of
Ramses II. Ramses III could copy the inscriptions of his great prede-
cessor, attribute them. to himself and erase the originals; he could
copy laudations on papyrus changing only Ramses II’s name to his
own; he could build with the stones of his predecessor’s temple, turn-
ing their inscriptions inward out of sight, but the ark, the “glorious
ark of Ramses II, united to Thebes,” was too sacred to be changed
even in name. This I think is the only place where the name of Ram-
ses II is to be found on the face of the stones in Medeenet Haboo.2

March 25, 1884 I got Mrs. Moulton’s scarabs and a gold-faced one

for myself, the only one I have ever seen for sale. It
is of the Thirteenth Dynasty and from Drah Aboo’lneggah. A palm
tree stem has been found in a grave and brought to the boat; it was
used as a column and has a head of Hathor carved on it and a line of
hieroglyphs, the only one known. I have been about paying visits,
had hard work to resist presents from Aly Moorad and Qamoory, but
I prefer not to be in their debt. Ibraheem Mohassib gave me a scarab
but I am to send him a book from Cairo. Guy Lussac came down with
his comrade O’Kelly last night, an Irishman with a twitch in his
eyebrows. He towed from Erment the little dehabeeyeh of M. and
Mme. Bouillon, who have been visiting with us much of the day.
They are very desirable acquaintances, for theirs is the best vegetable

 

I. Pavilion of Ramesses III: King and Princesses. King playing draughts with Princess. etc.; Porter-Moss.
“Topographical Bibliography." vol. II. Oxford. 1929. pp. 174-175.
2. G. Daressy. “Notice explicative des ruines de Medinet Habou." Cairo. 1897. p. 142.

297

