[CHAPTER THREE

south of this my almost naked companion showed me many tombs
to the east and just around the mountain he said was a rock-tomb as
big as that at Dayr. Next chance I will go to see it. The Moslems make
a pilgrimage up this gorge, now sacred to Sheikh Shahoon, every
summer, and we saw many little yards laid out as in child's play and
marked by lines of small stones, said to be on his account. His effect
is supposed to be proliﬁc. The French miller, M. Frénay1 dined with
us last night and to-night. He left last summer, but the stream mill
ran on and ground people’s wheat and lentils and doorra all the
same and the money therefor was ready for him when he came back.
They count twelve thousand Moslems and half as many Copts in
this old city of Khem.

MENSHEEYEH-BELIANEH That donkey did shake me. Another such
Thursday to Abydos tomorrow may be a cure. We
Feéruary I, 1883 set out this morning and tied up at
Mensheeyeh for an hour where M. Mas-
pero copied a big stone with one Greek inscription and bought a small
one with another from a man who did not wish to sell. Both are un-
fortunately incomplete but they are important, being the only Greek
inscriptions yet found here.2 One on the pillar of a temple contains the
tax for puriﬁcation to be paid by men and by women with and with-
out children, as the tariff of indulgences is now hung up. We tied up
at Belianeh and found a few good anteekeh which M. Maspero
bought for the Museum. We looked through the town and found a
few inscribed stones, one with the name of Psamtik II, whose Queen’s
sarcophagus we hope to carry back with us from Thebes. The Coptic
church seems old and is mostly underground.

ABYDos We went again to the Sacred City. A Cook boat
Priday had come down and the Kookeeyeh were scat-
Feéruary 2, I883 tered along before and behind us greatly to M.
Maspero’s disgust, not so much to mine. They

were mostly English women, knew how to ride and if they were not
pretty wore clean light-colored clothes. Egypt is not a good place to
wear black on excursions; there is too much dust. Blind old Seleeb

 

I. Frénay. Consular Agent of France at Ekhmeen.
2. E. Breccia. “Catalogue général des antiquités égyptiennes du Musée d'Alexandrie"-——”Iscrizioni Greche
e Latine." Cairo. 19:1. no. 163, pp. 94—95 and pl. XXX. 73.

204

