DECEMBER I882 TO APRIL 1883]

far ahead. He showed me the place to which we were to go, away
across a sandy beach a mile wide northwest to the mountain. He and
I went thither and found a pit two yards by four and four deep, so
near the perpendicular side of the rock that a side door looked out
over the sand to the green wheat and the brown towns and mountain
beyond and the river. A black man came up with his crowbar from a
neighboring quarry; I explained to him what I wanted and he said
it was an hour or two south, over against Derwah. So south I went
near an hour and a half inquiring of every suspicious looking rock if
it were not a tomb, until after four hours of my swell donkey I
joined the others at the stele we went for. They had taken a guide in
Tooneh and gone straight southwest and had but just arrived. The
stele is the western one of four which look at the town King Khu-en-
Aten builded when he proclaimed the unity of the Sun God and tried
to break the power of the High Priests of Ammon at Thebes. It has
been much mutilated since, but high and low where it was less con-
venient to hammer it, it is well preserved. Beside it are the strangest
statues of the King and Queen twice repeated‘. They are quite unlike
anything else in Egypt and exhibit such a form as would be obtained
on an exuberant but small-lunged person by high-waisted tight-
lacing. The heads are gone and one side—half of each is supposed to
be imbedded in the projecting rock table over which their arms are
stretched. Of the Queen, I give the dimensions in centimetres as I
measured them, she being one hundred thirty-nine centimetres high
to the top of shoulder. Her foot is twenty-seven centimetres long,
just the length of my shoe. Three daughters are ﬁgured on the side of
the rock-table and two of them are repeated in half sculpture, as if
three or four years old, beside her. Three or four feet to the left is a
repetition of the King and Queen and the two daughters, with slight
variation. The design was made when there were but two daughters.
The birth of the little Anchnesaten2 while the work was in progress
led to the third being cut on the side of the rock table, a shabby piece
of work compared with the salient sculpture of the rest. I made a
plan and copied the inscriptions of these statues while Piehl and
Bouriant compared Lepsius’ copy of the stele3, adding many correc-

I. N. de G. Davies. “The Rock-Tombs of El Amarna," vol. V. London. 1908. pp. 23. 24, 27 and pl. XLIII,

2. Anchnesaten = Ankhesenpa-aten. the queen of Tutankhamon under the changed name of Ankheaen—
amon.

3. See the description of Lepsius in “Denkmﬁler,” Text. vol. II. Leipzig. 1904. pp. 113-115.

I99

