[CHAPTER ONE

I should be quite willing to have Mohammed rub my legs and
arms to-day. My fellow climbers, too, are too studious to go out
much.

CAIRO Yesterday was mainly a day of rest. The pyramid
j‘anuary 2, 1881 muscles are the big one that cover the outer
front of the right thigh and a smaller inner front
one near the right knee. I went up mostly left foot ﬁrst. Of my com—
panions Mrs. Young went as I did and Mr. Young right foot ﬁrst.
We feel correspondingly. We thought when we left the pyramid that
the feeling of its greatness had been growing upon us all day. And
it has ever since.

This afternoon we six, Dr. Warren’s ladies, the Young folks and I
went to Heliopolis by way of Matariyeh where I saw on the tree The
Virgin rested under, her initial and the Year I. It was a charming
garden with a double sakkieh which raises the only sweet water
thereabouts and we drank of it and I talked with an Italian woman
whose faith, sad to say, was not strong, and picked the enclosed ﬂow-
ers from the hedge which surrounded the much-inscribed tree. The
water is as sweet and the ﬂowers are as sweet as though some loving
mother had blessed them by her presence and her use; it may have
been the Maiden Mary: it surely was a milky Hathor, one of the
seven who met over every Egyptian cradle to weave a fortune and a
fate; I recognized the bouquet of Hathor, mistress of the 13th Lower
Nome.

Then a few minutes farther, in the centre of a twenty-acre space
surrounded by the ruins of a wall on which three or four chariots
might drive abreast, there, half buried in the ground, rises the most
ancient of obelisks, only a thousand years younger than the Pyra-
mids. I read the familiar inscription from which the covering bees’
nests have been cleaned off on two sides; it is the same on all. A small
avalanche of small bakhshish hunters amused us greatly with their
white teeth, every one a Jeanne Samary. These are the successors of
the famous professors who, twenty—ﬁve centuries after this obelisk
was set up before the temple of the Sun, taught Plato.

yanuary 3, 1881 In the morning to the Museum, which I ﬁnd to be
richer as I see it more. The ﬁrst time I was struck

I4

