[CHAPTER TWO

graph oﬂice and telegraphed to the Crédit Lyonnais and have an an-
swer that they have seen neither receipt nor passport but will look
out for anybody who brings them. So there is no harm done. Now I
suppose the envelope will turn up somewhere. I have visited the New
Hotel and the old and the Wiedemanns who are very well but fearing
the winter—killed cholera and the troubles they expect in Cairo. I got
a very nice letter from Mme. Hagens which I will send you when I
have answered it. A ﬁfty-howaga Cook boat is here and we had to
walk on the west side, all the donkeys having gone to Karnak. So I
went no further than the telegraph ofﬁce while the rest went on to see
a tomb opened since we left. It was of Greek time and of the eight
sarcophagi one is thought worthy of being taken to Boolak. A baby
mummy was swathed, not in linen, but in palm branches, which Mas-
pero has not before heard of. Abd el Megeed’s boat will be done in
three or four days and Consul General Wolf is expected soon. We
hear of the fall of Shereef Pasha and that the National Party suc-
ceeds.l Mme. Hagens writes me that people who want anything from
the Government are assiduous at Arabi Pasha’s divan. That may
concern bond holders and ofﬁce holders but, I think, the howaga will
always be welcome in Egypt.

There is no English dahabeeyeh here; the English are terribly
frightened and they tell me all the landed interest is poor from the
decrease in rent of land; indeed houses in London are said to be down
thirty or forty per cent. Mr. John Cook himself is here “personally
conducting” the big boat. We were prepared for the retirement of
Gambetta2 but not for so large a majority against him. Still he is not
out for long, the country wants him and will ﬁnd means to manage
these fellows who do not want to pay for another election, or who
think they are not large enough to run in a whole department.

I. “Arabi became under-secretary of war at the beginning of 1882. but continued his intrigues. Sherif
Pasha (prime minister) fell in February. Mahmud Sami became prime minister. and Arabi (created a
Pasha) minister of war." Encyclopaedia Britannica.

2. Gambetta: "\Vhen on the 14th of November Gambetta announced the composition of his Cabinet.
ironically called the "grand ministére.” which was to consolidate the Republic and to be the apotheosis
of its chief . a great feeling of disillusionment fell on the country. for his colleagues were untried politicians

. . the ”grand ministére” lived for only ten weeks. Gambetta was succeeded in January. 1832. b)’
M. de Freycinet. . . ." Encyclopaedia Britannica.

13o

