FEBRUARY 1884 TO MAY 1884]

thought it hardly worth while. The consul’s wife does not think she is
comfortable on her dahabeeyeh and is reported ill, so that she did not
go up to Edfu.

To-day we started early with the little dahabeeyeh in tow, stared
at the stupendous quarries of Gebel Silsileh on the way and at the
ruins of the Temples of Ombos, and arrived here at dark, sixty-seven
and a half miles, which would have been a good day’s work without
the dahabeeyeh. Mme. Maspero walked to the grottoes of Elkab and
about them yesterday and then visited Edfoo and has a severe head-
ache to-day so that she will hardly be able to go to Philae to—morrow.

GOING DOWN Yesterday Mme. was unable to go to Philae and
Marc]: 1, 1884 Maspero stayed with her, partly to avoid playing

the guide to a stupid little consul, whose ignorance
does not however make him a bad fellow. I waited for Maspero and
then as the others had gone went over alone, that is there were three
of us, a donkey, a donkey boy and a ..... I. We met many
people on the way, for it is a frequented road and I felt quite as safe
on it as ifI had been going to the Four Corners. From time to time on
a height I saw little ﬂags; the English are, they say, going to put guns
there. My donkey boy assured me that the mookhdy, for so they call
him here, would not come to Assu an, for the English were coming to
keep him away. Again I saw the wonderful rocks, and the quarry
where the obelisk is split out, ready to be worked, and the old Arab
cemetery with its thousands of ﬁne Cuﬁc inscriptions, and the village
of Mahatta,l where the Shellalee live—the Cataracters—and at last
we came to the Castle as they call it, the Kasr, the beautiful Isis-
temple2 on the lovely Osiris-island. I set to work at a list of nomes, a
part of which Diimichen copied and printed years ago and I had
worked little more than an hour when I was called to breakfast, after
which and coffee, the consul and his friend having done the Island
and Brugsch having taken his photographs, we took a turn in the
boat and went down to Mahatta, and while the Consul coffeed with
one of the Khartoom missionaries, did more photographs and then
came back in the heat, arriving at three with a headache. The bazars
seemed more empty than usual: I got nothing. Said had been over to

 

I. Mahatta, Arabic for railway station.
2. J. Dﬂmichen. “Geographiache Inschriften." Leipzig. 1866. vol. I. pp. 15-17. and pl. XXXVII—LV.

279

