DECEMBER I882 T0 APRIL 1883]

Thursday I continued my tomb work, spending an hour alone
March I, 1883 in Goodplan’s tomb. You have to pass through
three others to reach it now; its entrance is enclosed.
The colors are fresh and the statues carved in the rock walls are but
little broken. Some of the decoration I have seen nowhere else; I read
much and copied a little. Then I heard the voice of Old Khaleefeh
and coming out Kamoory came and showed me more tombs and gave
me coffee in his house and Aboo Gamb showed me more. There was
one in which carved cats were the feature,1 another where the serpent
headed goddess2 of Harvests suckling Amenophis III and in the last
of all three of the four walls were covered with offerings of ﬂowers
only by the owner and all his relations up and down and sideways to
kings and queens and gods and goddesses all.3 .

Friday I remember the day by which we begin the second
Marc]: 2, 1883 half of our century; we have had much more than
our share both of the boons and banes of life and
still I am inclined rather to look forward than backward. There is
much, I believe to be done and enjoyed, and I hope not so much to
be suffered. The day is warm and caressing, a perfect day even for
Luxor; I hope the seventeenth may be as auspicious. Maspero comes
back from his tomb happy; the stones are all packed and camelling to
Aly’s boat on their way to Boolak.

THE BAWABEH I went to Gurnah to the tombs about E1 Bawabeh
Saturday which I had never seen before. Some of them are
March 3, 1883 very large, one of a famous personage, the Bek-en-
khonsoo4 of the statue in Munich,his gradual rise to

be High Priest of Amnon, showing what a long and tedious road it was
to travel. In this region a dozen of the grandees added dignity to their
tombs by building small brick pyramids behind them. The Bawabeh

itself, from which the region takes its name, is so called from a rough

1. Tomb no. 48 of Amenemhet-Surere: the cats have been published by Prisse d'Avennes. “L'Art Egyptien."
Paris. 1879. vol. I. pl. XII.

2. Tomb no. 57 of Khaemhet: the goddess in W. Wreszinski. “Atlas zur Kulturgeschichte Aegyptens."
Leipzig. 1923. pl. 198.

3. Tomb no. 161 of Nakht. see M. Werbrouck and B. van de Walle, "La Tombe de Nakht." Brussels. 1929.

4. Tomb no. 35. of Bakenkhonsu. For the statue see Th. Devéria, in ”Bibliothéque Egyptologique." vol.
IV. Paris. 1896. pp. 269—324; F. W. von Bissing, “Denkmﬁler ﬁgyptischer Sculptur." Munich, 1914. pl.
51 and 52. -

225

