NOVEMBER 1886 T0 APRIL 1887]

On the way down to El Kab (we left Edfoo the twenty-sixth and
saw Kab the same day) we met the Museum Steamer which the
Keeper of the Edfoo Temple, Old Mohammad, told us had been
loading a big stone at Esneh. We landed two miles above the Great
Fort and went northeast to the desert temple, where I copied an
hieroglyphic inscription dated in the year thirteen of H. M. N apo-
leon 111‘; then back along the votive stone records to Stau’s little
Thoth temple and the curious stairway. The only thing existing
which reminds one of the Deir-el-Bahri; and then to the famous grot-
toes and the wonderful wall.

The twenty-seventh we made little progress; the north wind was
too strong. But about two o’clock the twenty-eighth we reached Es-
neh where the sailors turned seven and a half bushels of wheat into
bread. On the way up they did twenty bushels at Girgeh, forty-two
days ago. They add some Hour of what they call fool, a sort of beans,
and they brag to us that their bread is much better than ours.

Insinger has telegraphed me from Luxor that he will send “Puff-
puﬂ',” so Linnie named his little steamer, up for me if I like. We will
have it if we need. But in a strong north wind it is too weak and with
no wind we ﬂoat down very well.

Now on this ﬁrst of March the rest are going to a convent you will
ﬁnd mentioned in Murray2 and I shall go to the temple and copy
something about Khnum.

LUXOR . . . . . We have spent our night in Esneh where

Marc]: 4, 1887 I worked in the temple and the rest went to the

Convent which the Martyr Massacre by order of

Diocletian made famous; it marks the Era from which the Copts
COUl‘lt.

Then, March Ist, we came down at night to a sand bank and rested
uneasily on it for an hour or two in the dark. Next morning we passed
Gebeleyn early and called on M. Bouillon at Erment. He has made a
wooden jacket for the Ramses statue at Luxor to keep him from
breaking during his voyage to Cairo, where M. Grébaut proposes to

1. "Another hieroglyphic inscription here (‘In the 13th year of his majesty, lord of the world. Napoleon
III') is certainly the latest in Egypt. with the exception of that added to celebrate 'King Henri V’ (i. e.
Count of Chambord. d. 1883).” Baedeker. “Egypt." 1929. p. 367.

2. Murray. “Egypt.” 1880. p. 507.

425

