[CHAPTER EIGHT

board, altogether much the easiest way to get home. But the daha-
beeyeh might be taken up to Mehallah in case of much work at
Sehayl or at Philae. In the evening we went to the Sultana where
Mme. Lefevre had two music men and two dancing girls, one of the
Luxor order and the other apparently not brought up to the business
but sober and enterprising. She danced with a table in her teeth.

February 8, 1889 To Sehayl where I tried to stamp my big stelel,

but it is not cut deep enough. The granite has a
natural polish which the sculptor hammered off roughly, and the
two thousand years since have done nothing to polish the then
freshly broken places. To the Bazaar in the afternoon where the most
interesting things were from India. There was a good petroleum
lamp from Calcutta, burning without a shade.

February 9, 1889 To Sehayl again where I copied seven lines after

ﬁve lines yesterday. The face of the great rock
was so hot I could not bear my hand on it and the men who held
the sun-umbrella relieved each other. An old man who lives half a
saggieh from our Aly, near Kalabshee brought down and I bought in
bronze: three stone-Chisels, one scarcely and another much used and
one broken; two hatchets and a four-inch ring as if for the end of a
bowsprit or a mast with two side rings for ropes, say ﬁve-eighths of
an inch.

Sunday A lively gust of wind last night, which called

February 10, 1889 for much care of things on deck, cleared up the

air and I did my seven lines at Sehayl. A card

from Mr. Fisk told of their thirty hours on the sand, which would
cut off their promised time at Luxor.

February 11, I889. Dora went with me to Sehayl to take some

squeezes, but we found among the hundreds on
the crags to the west of our section none that were deep enough. We
looked at a great many; I corrected some printed and did four lines.

I. This very important historical inscription was ﬁrst made known by two photographs sent by Ch. E.
Wilbour to the Egyptologists on J uiy I. 1890. See Heinrich Brugsch, “Sieben Jahre der Hungersnoth.
nach dem Wortlaut einer altéigyptischen Felsean-Inschn'ft." Leipzig, 1891; K. Sethe. "Dodekaschoinos.
das Zwolimeilenland an der Grenze von Aegypten und Nubien." Leipzig. 1901. pp. 19 and sea.

516

