[CHAPTEREIGHT

ELEPHANTINE I tried to copy from the felucca the stones built
February 5, 1889 into the south-east side of the famous “Quai,”
as it is called, probably the high foundation for
some building meant to show afar. I made poor progress, the boat
being unsteady and the hieroglyphs high. There are odd quarry
marks on the stones such as mostly in the top tier, mostly in
the second and mostly in the third tier. There are lion
gargoyles of Ramses II at each corner, stolen from a temple just
above, which was built, as a few remains show, of stones of Amen-
ophis II. I tried to make out something of a Greek inscription of the
Roman Julius Primianus, the illustrious leader of the time of Pertinax
who besides being the pious, august Lord, was Lucius Septimius
Severus also; and of another Lucius, Eparch of Egypt; and seven
lines of Latin in which I made out Domitianol. I drew a three-quarter
yard cube altar of red granite with its Greek dedication “To the
Great God Ammon,” and copied a nine line stone of Ramses II,l
leaving another stone of the same inscription for another time. After
which we went to the Post and saw the not uninviting Hotel Ele-
phantine, north of the Moodereeyeh.

Feéruary 6, 1889 We sailed in half an hour up to the picturesque

island of Sehayl. I had last night made an index
of the hundred inscriptions published by Lepsius and Mariette, but
landing on what I thought the best part of the island I found none
such but a few others of far greater interest. Some of these near the
lowest of the rapids refer to it. Usertesen III says that he as his
memorial to the Goddess Sati made a channel a hundred and ﬁfty
cubits long, twenty broad and ﬁfteen deep and then sailed up to
crush Vile EthiopiaQ. About a thousand years later Thothmes I says
that on the twenty—second day of the ninth month of his third year
he sailed through this channel on his way to crush vile Ethiopia.
Thothmes III on a bigger piece of granite says that on the twenty-
second day of the ninth month ofhis ﬁftieth year, having ordered the
cutting of this channel after he had found it boxed up by stones so
that no vessels could pass, he rejoicing, sailed up to hew his enemies.

 

 

I. "Catalogue des Monuments et Inscriptions de l'Egypte antique." vol. I. Vienna. 1894. pp. 124—125.
For the inscription of Ramses II in nine lines. ibidem. p. 118.
2. C. E. \Vilbour. ”Canalizing the Cataract," in “Recueil de Travaux." vol. XIII, 1890. pp. 202-203.

514

