DECEMBER 1882 T0 APRIL 1883]

came over to accompany us to Abydos. His name is “The Cruciﬁed”
and verily he is a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. Last year
you remember his daughter’s husband was condemned (quite wrong—
fully as his friends think) to ﬁve years’ imprisonment for killing a
man. In the summer she died and the bombardment of Alexandria,
which released the prisoners, sent him to her grave. A month ago he
was taken back, and ten days ago Seleeb’s son of twenty was taken
away and sent to Cairo to be one of the Khédive’s new army. I re-
member how when we came to Sioot the streets all about the Moode-
reeyeh were ﬁlled with men and women waiting to know the fate of
sons and husbands and brothers, and last Sunday night, as I rode
back alone after my carpentry, how ﬁve women going home to a near
village repeated and repeated in a low wail:

“He is gone, he is gone, my beloved;
I shall not know if he be alive or dead;
I know not if he ever will come back again

')3

We went to the Seti-temple, where I noted the place on the walls of
the forty-seven tableaux ofMariette’s ﬂppendix B,1 and to breakfast
at Seleeb’s where was the biggest turkey I have seen carved this year,
and then to the Fortress Convent2 where the Coptic Priest would not
sell his wife's necklace, and then to the Tomb of Osiris3 from which
the sebakh-searchers have driven the Bees, lovers of the Divine
Sweets, and then through the Necropolis where I picked up bits of
skulls nine millimetres thick (no wonder that Herodotus contrasts
them with the thin-skulled Persians in battle), and then to the
Ramses—temple, for taking marble from which for lime my sentimen-
tal Coptic priest has been in prison; and then we said good-bye to the
blind old man and left him sitting by his doorway. On the way back I
triangulated the road, very different on our two principal maps, and
plotted it in the evening.

Saturday To-day we have steamed quietly to Keneh, I
Feéruary 3, 1883 looking hard at the nome of the Phoenix which
I want much to explore. But it will wait for me;

perhaps I shall for it. We are tying up. My Arab-time watch is at

I. A. Mariette-hey, “Abydos.” Vol. I. Paris. 1869. “Texts and Figures of the Ritual of the Gods."

2. Fortress Convent is the Coptic Deir. See E. R. Ayrton. C. T. Currelly and A. E. P. Weigall. “Abydos.”
Part III. 1904. London. 1904. pl. V. 2 and pp. .3 and 46.

3. Tomb of Osiris is the Temple of Osiris, called Kom es Sultan. Murray. “Egypt," 1881. pp. 436~437.

205

l.‘ .i l l lEl‘ I L Air ‘ 7. ll l i l l

