NOVEMBER 1885 TO MAY 1886]

hates the Italians because they sympathized with the Prussians; she
is Prussian. They went to Naples and I after three changes have
passed behind Vesuvius, not smoking enough to melt last night’s
snow, and am now under that arch nest of Dominican Cloisters which
we are going up to see some day, Monte Cassino. In one of these
Combiamenti I met Nicotera, returning from a stumping tour; for
they elect a new chamber the twenty-third.

Friday Etta received me in Rome with an abundant kiss.
May 7, I886 Philo was with her, in bed two days with gastric
fever which the Italian doctor thinks he can prevent

from becoming typhoid. They have been full all winter, a hundred
guests. Poor old Benedetta is gone, near a year ago. '

Saturday I went, not to the Vatican, for he who cumbereth that
May 8, I886 ground shuts it Saturdays and Sundays, but to the
Campidoglio and the Forum. I saw infantine Romans
looking at the wolf, and stiff Marcus Aurelius whom M. Angelo
thought so ﬁne, and looked joyfully and long at our white friends up-
stairs. If the Gaul were away I think I should like the room better.
Below in the corridor are the Amasis Sphinx and the granite croco-
dile1 and the two Nekht-hor—heb cynocephali from the Temple of
Maria sopra Minerva sopra Iside; I had not seen them before. I
looked carefully over the whole of the Forum. They were digging
just north of the Regia and a crowd were watching the two or three
diggers. In the two hours I was there a bit of marble inscription was
found, which may tell something when they ﬁnd the next piece. The
Vestals repaid me my day in Rome; half a dozen pedestals inscribed
each to a V. V., as many draped ﬁgures graceful but headless and
one with head and even nose intact, noble and digniﬁed if not of
loftiest art. These monuments were in the grove of their temple
wherein they kept the sacred ﬁre.

Sunday Etta got Philo a Bellevue hospital nurse yesterday
May 9, 1886 and he seems and the Dr. says he is improving. I
am much more content to leave him, now that that

little woman has charge of him. She thinks it will not be many days

 

I. See letter of February I, 1884.

405

