[CHAPTER TWO

be another reason. M. Maspero tells me that a Mr. Birdsall, an
American, told Brugsch that Aly Moorad took him to his brother
in Goornah, who makes false antiquities, Aly supplying the capital,
and they showed him a very ﬁne mummy for one hundred pounds.
Now Mohammed Abd-er-Rasool it seems knew where this mummy
was hidden, and he went and took it and brought it to this boat,
where it lies in Mr. Brugsch’s place, he being with the Princes. I
doubt the whole story for it seems to me that if Aly had any interest
in anybody’s selling antiquities, true or false, he could not have con-
cealed it from me. But ifit be true, he might not be happy to go on a
boat where was one hundred pounds of his, he dare not claim. I
think it the mummy Nagyr told me he bought of Mohammed last
year for ﬁfty pounds, and which Mohammed pretended to be afraid
to deliver. It is very ﬁne.

At night we came up to Erment where was the temple1 the
Cleopatra, built to commemorate the birth of her son and J. Caesar’s,
now absorbed in a factory which makes very good sugar. I found in a
garden some once frozen roses and some orange ﬂowers and apple
blossoms and lemons; these last best of all in this heat.

Wednesday I had the best donkey I’ve been on in Egypt, big,
Marc/z I5, 1882 no motion except forward and plenty of that, in-
deed all that my fancy ever painted a donkey. We
went along a pleasant path and then over sand and across canals and
desert till we came to a queer old convent enclosure with a score of
little domes rooﬁng a corner; all of brick mostly unburnt. Some long
rooms, four or ﬁve domes long and one row of domes which were little
chapels for sundry saints. Holy things and a screw machine to raise
and lower the big Mass Book, rather necessary if, as they say, the
Coptic Mass takes three hours to say.

We turned and went across the desert to a place where tombs were
opening under the efforts of ﬁfteen or twenty naked workmen with,
I thought, small results. But from this place, apparently a Roman
cemetery by the pottery and the terra cotta sarcophagi, we had been
assured came a Thirteenth Dynasty stele, which has been on board
some time. Back to the Convent to which had now come three

 

I. Lepsius. “Denkmtiler.” Text. vol. IV, 1901. pp. 10-11.

146

