DECEMBER 1880 T0 APRIL 1881]

of joy at seeing the green of an oasis or of Egypt on the horizon. Then
the Colonel went away to the North across the country to Cairo and
we turned back by the winter route to Memphis. Here again amid the
vast mounds of the Old City were many scattered stones some with
the name of Ramses II and some with that of his son Meneptah,
bearing witness of statue, wall and temple. At Mariette’s house I
mustered Arabic enough to learn from the guard that a pyramid
North of Sakkarah had been opened and that it was maktué “written
over,” but that it was makfool “locked up.” He had been in and it
was a great place. He showed me on my map two pyramids of which
he said it must be one; they are marked XXXIV and XXXVI by
Lepsius in the ﬁrst part of his Monuments, plate 33.1

We passed through Bedreschayn to the tune of “Bakhshish” and
then to the river where we waited nearly an hour for the ferryboat to
Helwan. When it came Mrs. Young fortunately thought it too small
for the load and the high wind and we went back to the railway. On
the way we saw at sunset a lovely scene. They were driving the cat-
tle home to the village, camels old and young, buffalo cows and their
calves, goats and kids with a curl in the end of their ears, young
donkeys, women whose modesty covers their mouths and noses ﬁrst
of all, children of all ages, in arms, astride the mothers’ shoulders, led
by the hand, toddling alone, driving the donkeys, holding on to the
sheep. And all this under the palms with the wonderful fresh green
around and the gorgeous cloud colors from the sun setting behind
the pyramids. It was the Bible translated into life. There were the
ring streaked and speckled; sly Jacob had been to the watering
trough with his rod; you may see it all in Doré’s and other illustra-
tions. I have hardly received so deep an impression here as from this.
There was nothing in it that might not have been when that pyra-
mid was built, except the two lines of iron. We went along these to
the station where Brugsch welcomed me. He looked as though he
had been drawn through a hell of dust and splintered rocks and told
me his knees were covered with blood. He had been over after me

(and I had found his card) the night before, but he was glad he said

I. See G. Maspero, “Les Inscriptions des Pyramides de Saqqarah." Paris. 1894 and for the history of the
excavations during the years 1881 to 1886 the two Reports of Maspero: “Premier rapport a l'Institut
Egyptien sur les Fouilles exécutées en Egypte de 1881 a 1885; Deuxiéme rapport a l'Institut Egyptien sur
les Fouilles et travaux exécutés en Egypte 1885-1886." in the “Bibliotheque égyptologique.” vol. I,
Paris. 1893, pp. 145-281.

I7

l. .I i l til- J l .I' x r ll'“‘~* l :I l l

