 

OCTOBER 1881 TO APRIL 1882]

have several indications of discoveries to look after. M. Maspero has
not yet been on shore though he has been at work for some days.
Mme. Maspero feels the heat much and, for the ﬁrst time since the
Mediterranean, my bamboo lying-down chair gets used on deck and
here in the saloon, where I am writing at ten o’clock at night.

. I shall leave Luxor thinking of the mountains of work I
leave undone. Will anybody ever do it? I do not see him.

Luxor, March 10, 1882.

(copy)
To the Consul of Greece,

Sir:

I yesterday telegraphed you a request for authorization to prosecute Boukrati
Shotti of Luxor and Georgi Todori of Farshoot and Esneh for beating so as to cause
wounds Sai’d Ismaeen of Kafr-el-Haram. The testimony taken on the inquest by
the Maon of Luxor shows that Said entered the grocer’s shop of Boukrati on the
evening of the 7th instant and ﬁnding two friends disputing over a game they had
been playing, tried to quiet them; that the accused resented this and ordered him
out of the shop; that words ensued and that thereupon they beat him whether with
or without aid is disputed, so as in more than one place to make the blood ﬂow.
This is supported by all present, except that one of the accused, Todori, says he did
not beat him; he only knocked him down; and the other, whose name an effort was
made to conceal from us, refused to give his statement.

This inquest will be sent by the Maon to the Mudir of Keneh tomorrow and I
beg you in the interest of justice to take the necessary steps for an immediate trial.

I am, yours very truly,

Charles Edwin Wilbour

LUXOR Saturday I went to Karnak. The Princes came in
Monday the morning. Aly Moorad ﬁres twenty-one guns;
March 13, 1882 Todros the German Consul a wretched four and
Mustapha a miserable two. In the afternoon they

bothered me a little at Karnak; I was reminded of that day we fol-
lowed their father; they are less ill-looking than he—indeed nice
boys, nice is the word. In the evening Mme. Aubert’s Hotel made
such ﬁne ﬁreworks that Mme. d’Estournelles stood on the bridge to
see them so long and late and the vapors blew into her eye so that
she caught an opthalmia in one eye and has been taking her meals in
a darker room than this saloon ever since. Dr. Hutcheson has been
over much but he has only dropped a little sulphate of zinc into her
eyes, which M. Maspero does almost every day for some of the crew.

143

