[CHAPTER TWO

Monday I have sent you some papers recommended and
November 21, 1881 Linnie ﬁve photographs also recommended: I. a
pretty thing of boats on the Bosphorus which
looks like a Turner; 2. The Departure of the Mahmall from Cairo in a
storm of dust, the Khedive with a six-horse carriage on the right;
3. Mosque of Saeed’el Husseyn, some graceful poses of women walk-
ing; 4. Street barbers, and 5. Gargotiers caught in the act. All are in—
stantaneous pictures by Sebah with gelatine plates.

I do not sympathize with Father in his hatred of Conkling; I be-
lieve that he is as good a man as Blaine or Garﬁeld. All were ready to
sacriﬁce the good of their party and country to spite each other. I like
Arthur better than any of them, and have great conﬁdence in his tact
and ability to smooth over difﬁculties. Consul Wolf is sick a-bed
_ about half the time; he can’t get used to the water of the Nile, or he is

too much afraid of it; I don’t know which. .

Noveméer 28, 1881 And yet we are in Cairo. Friday I was at the

Museum. M. & Mme. de Bligniéres2 were there
and M. de Bligniéres being convinced that it is impracticable to move
the Museum to a drier place. M. Maspero hopes that the work on his
new house will now be permitted to begin. He ﬁnds it easy to get
almost anything from the Egyptian Government, but all grants of
money have to pass the two Controllers. And everybody says Mr.
Colvin3 does what M. de B ..... says. Indeed we have always been
taught that C. should come after B. The Calf’ 3 Head I found last

year was especially paraded in my honor.

I have spent some days in the Library; the Lepsius has arrived in
Egypt and we shall have it on board for our voyage; it will be very
handy to compare on the spot. Wednesday I went to Spitta’s house,
quite among the Arabs, very comfortable, with a stove, but I should
think exceeding lonely. F arrakh had brought him a lot of things
which he bought afterwards. I had seen them in Aly Gabree’s house
in Gizeh. Thursday Elsen went off to Suez, thence to go by steamer to

I. Departure of the Mahmal: the Mahmal is a pyramidal wooden erection. carried by a camel. and a sym-
bol of royalty sent with the Mecca caravan. See E. W. Lane. "Manners and Customs of the Modern
Egyptians." London. 1898. pp. 444-446.

2. “England and France in November. 1879. reestablished the Dual Control in the persons of Major Baring
(afterwards Lord Cromer). and M. de Bligniéres." Encyclopaedia Britannica.

3. Sir Auckland Colvin. author of the ”Making of Modern Egypt." New York. 1906.

80

