NOVEMBER 1889 TO MARCH 1890]

half around each. I found a part of one which the vandals had broken
and dropped in the debris. A few they had begun to cut out, then
left, but spoiled with chisel marks. The Rickmers, Germans, were
there with us. We came on at night to Haggi Kandeel.

yanuary 2, 1890 I bought in the town a granite helm made to go on

a statue, the ﬁrst I have seen, and one large and
two broken decorated pots, besides small stuﬂ‘. Poor old Hillaleeyeh
shivered in her blue cotton gown and told me of the four pounds tax
she had to pay on her four acres. We came on and tied up at night
at 0mm el Kosoor.

74721147313, 1890 We went on with a strong wind hoping to reach

Sioot where two Cook boats, each with friends,
would pass the night, but about two o’clock we went upon a sand
bank so hard and so high that though the I ndz'a’s men came to help
us, we could not get off. We got a freight boat and put the coal and
heavy things on it, three or four tons, but it was of no avail.

january 4, 1890 After fresh trials and sending for men to the
Omdeh of the village who took care not to be
found, I, at three o’clock started donkey-wise from Beni Salaam
and at six entered Sioot. Santoni, the Postmaster, who had steamers
last year, has none this and told me Cook only could give me one.
Bistavros Khayatt, our new Consular Agent, Mishragy having died
last May, thought he could get me off with men, but a steamer
would be better. So I went to Mr. Wright, Cook’s agent and he
would have one ready next afternoon. Then I had a bad dinner with
Seleeb Claudius at the Italian Hotel and a rather restless night.

yanuary 5, 1890 Saw Johnson Pacha, head of the Police of Upper

Egypt, who deplored the condition of the country
and told me how badly the native Courts, just established at Sioot
and Keneh, are working. He hoped that the old powers would be re-
turned to the Mudeers, or given to the Police; that alone would
command quiet. A band of Bedaween had attacked a butcher not
far from his house, robbed and killed three men wounding others.

543

