[CHAPTER FOUR

the Frenchman who died investigating the cholera, might have
caught it from the spray of the sea into which a cholera—infected
sewer ran in Alexandria. Thuillier lodged in a house in which there
had already been two cases. He has not yet learned how long it takes
the germ to develop in man, and was obliged to come home from
India by intermittent fever. I suggested that perhaps it was the spray
of the sewery sea on the Chiaja at Naples which gave fever to so
many foreigners in the hotels, and he said there was much similarity
in the movement of cholera and typhoid. We had a good view of the
currant island, Zante and of Cephalonia, parts of which seem very
rich and remind me of the environs of Naples; the houses are so thick.
At dinner the sea rose a little and I was so sleepy that I had to take a
digestion-nap before undressing. But it was a good nap and I slept
well until I woke

Friday coming into Brindisi. There were but few minutes to
ﬂpril 25, I884 watch the shoals on the left before breakfast and
after came the solemn news that the pilot did not
come on board, which looks like quarantine. Of course everybody is
agog. I think we bring none except the germs which Dr. Koch has
preserved between glasses. Before we left Egypt 21 man had had
cholera in the Suez Canal on a boat from India and the doctor, who
is my neighbor at table, has been fearing that we would ﬁnd a quar-
antine awaiting us.

We stop in the outer harbor and we wait—a long time till a big
man (bigger much than any Britisher here, almost as tall as lank
General Graham, who is going to repose in England on his Souakim
laurels), in an Italian uniform comes to the side of the ship and we
ﬁle before him and the crew ﬁle before him, mostly little pocketable
fellows, Lascars and all, and he nods his big high head and our quar-

antine is over.

In old Brundusium while the Tanjore coaled I went to the post,
bought newspapers of yesterday and the day before and the day be-
fore, as they came from Rome or Naples or Nice or Milan; saw the
old column with its strange twelve-ﬁgured capital, set up to say that

316

