[CHAPTER ONE

Wednesday morning we did and after much preparation of cof-
fee, etc., in the little white house behind the Ramesseum we were
ushered into a gate—closed tomb and seated on a carpet while a
funerary papyrus in an admirable state of preservation was unfolded
inch by inch to me. It is a beautiful piece of calligraphy of perhaps
the Twentieth Dynasty, not a Book of the Dead but one of the many
religious books on the same theme and without vignettes. The papy—
rus has been trimmed and I think some introductory pages cut off;
perhaps it has been divided between two ﬁnders. I judge there is left
thirty or thirty-ﬁve pages of twelve lines each, the lines being one-
quarter metre long. The price asked was £3 50; I would give £15 or
£20. But they perhaps believe as Abd-er-Rasool assured me the night
before, that it was “history.” Mr. 8: Mrs. Young started on their
steamer for Assuan and Wadi—Halfa and I returned to pack and say
good-bye to my friends at Luxor. For though there was no wind,
wind was expected and the Adam/rich would be pushed across the
river to catch it. Miss Hart gave me a veil and I followed her advice
and took my little trunk with plenty of books and clothes. Elsen
counted that he might go to Assuan in ﬁve days and the steamer
comes back in one. So to the Mam/21°61; where I am installed in a
cabin, my trunk in the arsenal amid store of riﬂes, shot-guns and
cartridges, and I am writing at the dining table in the salon fourteen
feet square. This salon has a divan and four windows on either side,
side tables, lamps, book shelves, ﬂower-stands, four mirrors, and is
very nicely and comfortably trimmed with Chintz curtains and cov—
ers. Forward of it are two cabins with a passage—way between and aft
three cabins and closets and stairway and one large cabin across the
stern; it would do nicely for six or seven people. Above, under an
awning, is nearly as much more room occupied by tables, two large
sofas, two large rocking chairs, lots of things including the skins of
the birds Elsen has been collecting and in the rear sits the graceful
pilot Mohammed who gives us the names of the places and moun-
tains we pass. Wednesday we passed very few, for the wind did not
rise and the tracking of the eleven men who went out on the bank to
pull us did not take us to Erment where Champollionl found the
temple, now utilized as wharf and sugar factory, by which Cleopatra

I. Erment. See Champollion 1e Jeune. “Lettres écrites d'Egypte et de Nubie en 1828 et 1829." Paris.
1868. p. 85. '

34

