OCTOBER 1881 T0 APRIL 1882]

daughter, Dr. Worthington, English, and Miss Bunsen, a Berlin
niece but quite an English woman. She can study and tries to under-
stand Thebes. Mrs. Barclay was there; she and her husband have al-
most the ﬁnest dahabeeyeh on the Nile and have been up for eleven
years. She reminded me a little of Mrs. Babbitt. Mr. Barclay shoots
quail.

..... Naville is happy. He has found a text which, he thinks,
will upset one of Brugsch’s discoveries. Everybody seems to think
this a great thing to do.

Brugsch, who went down with Consul Wolf to Dendera and Aby-
dos, is back again and Maspero begins travelling in the tombs with
him to-morrow. I shall try the Tombs of the Kings with one of Kha—
leefeh’s camels and Said. Khaleefeh bought a camel from the Soudan
caravan I saw at Mohamereeyeh while we were at work on the little

pyramid.

The London Time: of the twenty-eighth ult. had an article in which
our M. Rhoné is two or three times quoted as an authority on Arab
antiquities in Cairo. Charmes coughs nights and writes quietly days.
Rhoné writes. Bouriant copies Coptic inscriptions. I look mainly.
Maspero is ﬁnishing his translation of the pyramid of Unas.l Mme.
Rhoné is still at work on the piece of embroidery on which she was
working when I ﬁrst saw her. Fanny sketches; yesterday I put some
hieroglyphics (her name) on her Obelisk of Luxor. Mme. d’Estour-
nelles takes much interest in going about; she sketches too, and looks
on while Mme. Maspero plays scales. And to-night at seven o’clock in
my cabin the thermometer was 80°.

LUXOR Tuesday I went to the Tombs of the Kings and
Friday took careful note of everything in the Tombs of
February 24, 1882 Set Nekht and Seti II.2

W'ednerday I digested my notes and went to Kar-
nak in the afternoon with some Americans. There are thirty-two up
in the Cook boat out of forty-two passengers ...... In the
evening I went to a fantaiseeyeh at the Consul’s; there were ﬁfty

 

G. Maspero. “La Pyramide du roi Ounas" in “Recueil dc travaux relatifs a la philologie et a l‘archéologie
égyptiennea ct assyriennes." vol. III. 1882. pp. 177-224; vol. IV. 1883. pp. 41-78.
Nos. 14 and 15 of Porter-Moss. “Topographical Bibliography." vol. I. pp. 18-21.

I3S

