NOVEMBER 1890 TO MAY 1891]

unless a piece of an octagonal pillar date back to the Twelfth
Dynasty. There were many pillars with Corinthian capitals, sections
of granite columns fashioned for mill-stones, and Nefady found in
the house of Mme. Sabha a torso of a high relief of the Lady of the
City, in her Greek form of Aphrodite, clad only in a Zone. It was so
far gone that Dora dissuaded me from cumbering the boat with it.

Saturday The week has been marked by little wind and
747mm} 17, 1891 small incident. Monday, we sailed from Eshment
to Feshn and Tuesday we visited El Hibe again
where the Museum folk are excavating a temple of Shishak I, whose
work is rather rare. Sheikh Hassan had gone to Cairo and the Keep-
ers in charge tried to prevent me from copying or even seeing the
temple, which worried Lottie; the rest had gone off to see some croco-
dile mummy pits in the eastern enclosure. But I discovered all that
was uncovered, door-posts with adorations to Ra and Sekhet and a
ﬁve-line inscription of General in Chief Auputh who ﬁgures so largely
on the Bubastite Gate of the great temple at Karnak.1 There was
much besides that was fragmentary and there is much more to be un-
covered. It seems that the temple was buried to about four feet
above the floor and that all above that had been carried away. We
came up by the new felucca which with a light wind gains a third on
the dahabeeyehs. I stopped for the post Tuesday afternoon at Ma-
gaga and lost an hour, then overtook the dahabeeyehs in two hours
more. The felucca sails a little faster and it is able to go in shoaler
water where there is less current.

Wednesday we visited again Kom el Ahmar where I found last
year the stone of a temple of Ptolemy I. It was still there and another
inscribed stone had been uncovered in the temple itself, but the in-
scription was too fragmentary to make anything of.

Thursday we walked over to Aboo Girgeh2 where we found an an-
cient mound and nothing more; then one mile south to Shemseddeen
where were parts of ten columns of a Roman building, the columns
ten feet long by sixteen to twenty inches in diameter. A black told us

1. Ahmed bey Kama]. "Description générale dea ruines de Hibé de son temple. et de sa nécropole." in "An-
nales du Service des Antiquités." vol. II. 1901. pp. 84—91; G. Daressy, "Le Temple de Hibeh." ibidem.
pp. 154-156. The letter of Wilbour conﬁrms a hypothesis of Darmy about Prince AUputh. son of
Sheshonk rst. See H. Gauthier. "Le Livre des Rois d'Egypte. vol. III. Cairo, 1914. pp. 321-322.

2. For this region see Murray. ”Egypt." 1880. pp. 400-402.

581

