[CHAPTEREIGHT

of Hathor of Denderah. The outer, upper wife is Khent-Kaus; the mid
wife is Afa who has a daughter N efer-Kau, which was the name of a
daughter of Pharaoh Sneferoo of the Third Dynasty. The scenes, of
which there are many, resemble those in the tombs about the pyra—
mids of Gizeh. The prayers are to Anubis and no other God is men-
tioned, except incidentally, Thoth, in “The Thoth feast.” The wife
of the mid tomb, Afa, is prophetess of Hathor of the Sycamore, the
Hathor of Memphis. Kakhent is envoy plenipotentiary and he and
mid wife are king’s cousins. Aboo Shanab took three photographs
and I noted the scenes and copied such of the hieroglyphics as I
could make out. Nestor L’Hote speaks of the place and pronounces
them indecipherable. At night we went on to West Gow.

HAREEDEE At noon we reached Sheikh Hareedee. I climbed
December 3, 1888 up to the quarry behind old brick walls, a quar—
ter of a mile south of El Karm el Hareedee‘, as

N efady calls it. As you approach it, it has ﬁve openings, but these
become three when you arrive. Looking in at the Central, the largest
opening, there fronts you a ﬁne bas-relief four or ﬁve feet by eleven.
Ptolemy XIII, on the left, adores Min, the Nome-God of the Ninth
Nome, the Capital of which is Ekhmeem, Horus born in Apu (Ekh-
meem or Panopolis), Isis “in Apu.” Harpocrates and lion-headed
Sekhet, the mistress of the East under the name of the Eye of Horus.
The others say that they give the king the world generally, but she
vouchsafes that the Sati (the Eastern Bowmen) walks on his waters,
that is that they are obedient to him. Beneath this is a Demotic in-
scription of eleven lines worth stamping. Looking out from this is on
the right Ptah in a naos and on the left Thoth “twice great, Lord of
Shmooneyn, Master of Holy writ, judge of the Rehui,” and more
that I could not read without the Consul’s ladder. We came on and

tied up at Naga Maragha.

Aboo Shanab told me in the evening that on the way back from
Gaber yesterday he was informed that a Sheikh Gaber man search-
ing for tombs with the long iron rod they use, struck it through a
stone wall and saw a buried man sitting upright in his cerements and
alive. He was so terriﬁed that he shut the hole immediately and no-

 

1. Murray, "Egypt." 1830. p. 427.

486

