[CHAPTER THREE

a ram. Hence these hierogymnastics. There is a similar text on the
other front corner of the temple, nearly all in crocodiles, out of
respect to Sebek, the crocodile-headed god. Champollion copied this,
but nobody has read it. With both I begin to get some glimmerings of
sense, though not much is to be expected. In another text which I
copied here the third person of the Esneh trinity is identiﬁed with the
Earth very circumstantially. Indeed for Father, Mother and Son;
Sun, Heaven and Earth are not out of the way.

We left Guy Lussac at his pumping-station at Montana where his
boat was waiting for him. He is a very pleasant companionable man,
a uniting element in our steamer-hold. Then we came down through
the sandstorm, which had bothered me in the temple, to our letters at
Luxor ......

A COPPER CLEOPATRA Vassilli has bought a lot of old copper to-
Wednesday day, among it one Cleopatra which is a
March 14, I883 marvel of beauty and which he thinks
unknown to numismatists. It certainly de-
serves to be accepted as the Cleopatra; there is something alive about
it. Of course it is entirely Greek, as she was, and not at all Egyptian.
I have been staying in today to read the papers and digest the dust I
bit yesterday. The engineer of this Mudeereeyeh who blocked the
way about the clearing of this Luxor Temple has been removed and
now Maspero hopes to get on with it. Anyhow he has spoiled the
work for this winter.

CLEARING THE TEMPLE I went over the pile of copper to-day and

Thursday picked out thirty visible Ptolemies and

Alan}; 15, I883 eighteen Cleopatras much damaged, most

of them, but giving some good feature.

Kamoorry came to see me and I showed him some hieroglyphic

books. I went to Karnak and inspected the work done under my

twenty-cent contract. It was so well done that I made another with
the same boy for the same sum.

Friday Worked a little in the tombs of Ramses IV and VI.
Marc/z 16, I883 The Black Book is bigger than I thought it. Luckily
Lefébure is copying a part of it which is in the

Tomb of Ramses IX. He has nearly ﬁnished his work here and has
234

. E— .
‘ . n
l l

” l l »

