[CHAPTER FIVE

The sixteen steps by which the Court mounted to the Areiopagus,
the Hill of Mars, are still in use by venturesome persons, but they
are so slippery that it is easier to go up them than down, even as now
it is easier to get into court than to get out.

Coming back under the south wall of the Acropolis I found on
some fragments about the establishment of Asklepios (the old man
in charge told me it was a hospital and gave me from a spring near
old baths water to drink which he called “metallic”), the name of
Isis. So you see I feel at home. I could not help, as I crossed the
Theatre of Dionysos risking a little more sciatica to copy a couple
of dozen of those chair inscriptions though of course they have been
printed by some German. In the evening I called on the Eatons, who
are still here and we arranged to go to Megara tomorrow, if it be dry.

To-day everything is shut up and when I went to copy more
chairs it began to sprinkle. But I found there some pleasant Frazers
I had met in Luxor.

Tuesday I looked out early and concluded I would not take
ﬂpri/ 27, 1886 the ﬁrst train. Then it began to rain and it rained
most of the day. I called on the Eatons and the
F razers, Egyptian acquaintance, and looked at the bad photographs
they sell of these treasures, made long ago and now printed in and
sent hither from Paris. But two good Athenian photographers have
made a beginning. The Powers sent in their summons to Greece to
disarm within ten days, if not ? There was a meeting of um-
brellas in the square of the Syntagma, commanded by my balcony,
but it is hard to get indignation red hot in the rain. My right hand
man at table, Seyfullah, the Sword of God, Military Attache of the
Turkish Embassy, went to Megara with about six hundred others
and they seem to have a good time with each other in the houses
there, waiting all day for the rain to hold up. Mlle. Vosser, daughter
of the French General who came here to organize the Greek army,
put on one of the Megaran girls’ costumes and was much admired;
the Minister of the U. S. A. and wife and daughters were there,
known to Seyfullah and his naval comrade Ismael. The Sword of
God tells me that the Sultan likes Mr. Cox better than he does
any other ambassador.

 

400

