[CHAPTERSEVBN

Mason came in in the evening and we had a pleasant talk; he sees
no British intention of departing. This morning, Friday, Ahmed,
Mustafa’s son, came in. He has been down here three months about
the succession to the consulate and hopes to be through in ten days.
He undertook to send to Professor the two Arab teachers, sacred and
profane that he needs, and the Professor took his departure. I am not
sorry. He is a heavy load all the time and he do snufHe so. Now I
shall not sit beside him at table ......

CAIRO Last evening Fritz Insinger came around to see
SHEPH EARD’S me. He seems very well and sports a horse and a
November 12, 1887 little fox-terrior. He says he has become known
as 61 howaga éeta cl Kelbe: :ureyer, the howaga
who belongs to the little dog.

I took the Professor yesterday to the French School. We found
Vassali’s old Aly and the Sub—Conservator of the Museum. Aly will

bring the School’s Shaykh to see the Professor at his house.

Murih of Luxor just came up on the steps where I am writing and
told me sadly of the birth in July at Ramleh, and death Thursday at
the Mission here of their son. He himself arrived from Luxor four
hours after the death. There the front part of Aly Moorad’s house is
rebuilding; the Karnak Hotel was much cracked. The Upper country
seems to be quite healthy. Salah, the German Girls’ dragoman has
just been up; he is looking for business. Two British ladies, one in a
widow’s cap, have a pretty boy in the corner and are doing him in
pencil and water color, while contiguous novel—readers mildly com-
mend the game some French men and women played yesterday on
the new asphalt lawn-tennis ground under my window. The gong
sounds and the bashful boy is dismissed.

Tano tells me that about a hundred cuneiform cylinders have been
found at Tell—el-Amarna,l of which Mohammed Mohassib has ﬁfty,
the Museum twenty and he has just sold Daninos forty. No cunei-
form has been hitherto found in Egypt except on the Syrian frontier,
and if this be a real ﬁnd it may have something to do with the heresy
of the heretic King who built the Sun Disk’s Glory, the City whose

1. The wonderful discovery of the Tablets of E. Amarna. See J. A. Knudtzon. “Die Amarna-Tafeln.'.
Leipzig. 1915; E. A. Wallis Budge. ”By Nile and Tigris." London. 1920. vol. I. pp. 128—147; A. H. Sayce.
"Reuniniaoenocs." London. 1923. pp. 251-252. 258—259. 262 and 408.

432

 

