' [CHAPTERSEVEN

NEARING SIOOT Three days ago we left letters at Rodah and re-
?anuary 4, I888 ceived Mother’s and Isaac’s of the eighth ......

Day before yesterday I spent the morning in Haggi
Kandeel but found no trace of the cuneiform tablets said to have been
found there. The people were scared by the taxgatherer, who came
with four soldiers, but I bought a good many fragments of stone tem-
ple furniture, offering tables, statues and reposoirs, some in black
granite but most in the hard siliceous sandstone of which the Colossi
were made. Hillaleeyeh, of whom I bought the only movable tablet
of the Heretic King I have seen, had some fragments for me.

Yesterday the little Insinger girls came on board and Lottie gave
them the dolls she had brought them and they seemed very happy
over them. \Ne came on bravely last night till we struck so hard on a
sandbank in the dark that it took two hours to get off, capstan work,
just below Salam. ‘

Today they have been tracking until now as we near sunset, the
wind rises and we shall probably reach Sioot by dark, this thirtieth
day of the voyage. Till Lottie and Dora came on board, in nineteen
days I had made but a hundred and six miles, about ﬁve and a half
miles a day. Since then eleven days have brought us a hundred forty-
four miles, an average of thirteen miles. There has not been for years
so bad winds and calms. Usually we stop for the sailors to make
bread at Girgeh, ninety—two miles further on. But to—morrow they
will eat their last of the Cairo batch and the stop at Sioot to buy
and grind wheat and bake more will give me a chance to show Lottie
and Dora the Mission Schools and College which we did not get to
see last year. The days have been wonderfully warm; the nights quite
cool; the weather altogether lovely. The Captain is a much better
sailor than the Rais Tanyos.

SIOOT In these two days the crew have made bread and
7anuary 7, 1888 Lottie has bought things in the market and we
visited the Girl’s School of the American Mission,

seeing Mr. Giffen and wife and young Hogg and his sister and Miss
Kyle. It is vacation December 24th to January 24th, a long one to
accommodate a Presbytery, and they have a ﬁne airy place, which
was about all we saw. 'We went yesterday to the tombs and I spent

454

