[CHAPTER TWO

fragments. None of the great rafter stones has entirely fallen, but
some have a section broken out and seem to be upheld only by the
grip their side fellows have upon them. The side walls were covered
with hieroglyphics, but the fragments are so crushed that this text is
lost. What is left is the four gable ends of two rooms and the walls of
a short corridor between them. However the Pyramid of Unas is
nearly complete and the other four pyramid texts, though varying
from it, are in the main similar. So the holes in one are ﬁlled from the
others. This done, four will have been copied, and M. Maspero
means to keep on till he gets them all translated and published. Com-
ing back to the boat we found our letters, I your remembrance of St.
Patrick’s Day for which I thank you all, though I can feel sometimes
after a hard day’s work that I am forty-nine, and the letter from
Compton and from Brooklyn ..... and a note from Mrs.
Moulton asking me to tell her about the reception of some presents
she had sent to Aly Moorad, a note three weeks old which has been
back to Cairo again from Luxor. It speaks of sending him a gold
watch; I think she means to go up the Nile next winter again and to
have somebody to look after her at Luxor. The de Rochemonteix
come to France by the boat of the eighteenth with two children, two
nurses and two goats. M. Maspero thinks they will have to wait till
about the middle of August, after the baby is born; he dare not
undertake the voyage before for fear of a recurrence of last year’s
mishap. Then too the enlarged Museum is ready to be painted and
after that the things must be arranged and a catalogue made. I fear
Madame will suffer very much from the heat. This ceiling of the
boat, six feet high, will roast her quite ......

Tuesday Charmes came up to say good-bye; he is going to
ﬂpri14, 1882 Tunis Sunday and not coming up to stay as we ex—
pected. He is a very pleasant companiable fellow and

I hope we shall see him in Paris in May. He came over and break-
fasted with us in the pyramid. The robbers, the ancient ones, unable
to lift off the cover of the sarcophagus, broke off one corner, in which
we stick our legs, using the cover for a table. It is rather convenient,
for it is quite too much trouble to go out to breakfast. You have to
creep through a long granite corridor, then you come to three gaps

164

