DECEMBER 1880 TO APRIL 1881]

many ladies on our return, are opposite me with Dr. W arren’s three
ladies. Col. McKaye, here alone, has been introduced to me, he hav—
ing a letter to Brugsch, and funny Swedenborg ideas about the Egyp-
tian religion; I have seen and read some things for Consul F arman,1
who is collecting antiquities and coins. My big trunks came on Mon—
day and I do not see that anything is broken, though of the money
saved by sending them as freight Cook took ﬁfty piastres leaving me
only thirty; the liquids I took so much pains to bring are cheaper here
than in Paris; I have talked with two or three photographers; my
gelatine plates I made that Sunday are spotted by the voyage. Young
Dr. Wiedemann,2 a promising Egyptologist, with his mother and sis-
ter are going to Luxor to-morrow to stay the Winter and I have a letter
from Eisenlohr six days later saying that he has given up coming.
Yesterday Dauprat and I went to Elsen’s dahabeeyeh to dine and
found the Belgian Consul and his brother—in—law. The boat was luxu-
rious, the dinner as in a Parisian cafe; the waiters superb and we
stayed four hours. Then the Consul, Van Nest, proposed to go to see
the illuminations for the wedding of the Khedive's wife’s sister and
we drove to the great court of the Helmiyeh Palace, a blaze of light
and costumes and into the inner court which was a blazer. We met
the Khedive’s wife going home, with her six lithe, glancing sais, a
mass of white, running gaily before and her four eunuch guardians, a
mass of black, riding awkwardly behind; then more white and more
ladies with liberal veils and more black and so on. The kavass might
have taken the carriage into the palace had not the Consul stopped
him. After this feast of gaudy color and kohl—black eyes, my eyes
found rest at eleven o’clock in my little lonely mosquito barred bed.
The Arab chamberman had noticed my Arabic maps and he read
some of the names to me with delight.

In the afternoon Brugsch had come to see me (I returned his visit
yesterday and he told and showed me much unrepeatable) and made
me change my desire to go so quickly up the river. It is likely that
this will have been the best winter of the century for me to come to
Egypt. I went over this morning to his house and saw; I shall stay

I. Elbert E. F arman, American Agent and Consul General of the United States of America in Egypt.
appointed judge to the International Court at Alexandria on October 20th. 188r. retired on October
15th. 1884.

2. Alfred Wiedemann, German Egyptologist (born in Berlin in 1856) Professor of the University of Bonn.
from 1892.

9

