[CHAPTER THREE

on getting out of a “biled shirt.” There was illumination in the even-
ing about the gate of the hotel. I remembered the last we had seen
and how Mme. d’Estournelles, the clear woman, if she did take snuff,
got an ophthalmia looking at it. So I. didn’t. In the evening Alexander
Rostovitch, Cook’s factotum in Egypt, who is personally conducting
the Dufferin family, came in and talked to us till eleven. He told how
the great man would 'not have any Arabs along and wanted to hear
nothing of business, and about the Lady D. and Miss D. and two
little Miss D.’s and Master D. and Miss Colvin and the Gouver—
nante and three men, one of whom showed me in triumph in Cairo
some false tiles he had bought at a monstrous price. But Alexander
is good to know because he dispenses oranges to his friends with
liberal hand. Our Koorsheedt Effendi1 turns up his Circassian nose at
the ofﬁcial boat; he says there is nobody with him, “not even a Bey.”

Thursday Maspero did not work this morning, but expected a
March 22, 1883 return of his visit promised for ten o’clock. Noon
came and after breakfast the postal boat which
brought the Moneys whom Maspero knows and Mrs. Garwood whom
I know ...... While I was reading alone Maspero came down
into the salon with a slender man whom he introduced as Dufferin
and they talked and I read on ...... He staid half an hour and
we had a few words and he engaged Maspero for Saturday to show
him the new things, so we shall not leave before Sunday. But it may
be that Maspero will get help to push the digging of the temple
through, and to dig Mustapha out. Which would to me be a mitigat-
ing circumstance in the Irish Englishman’s life.

DUFFERIN DIGS Mohammed Abd-er-Rasool came over this morning
Friday and reported that Mustapha had begun to dig at
March 23,1883 Deir-el-Bahari for Lord Duﬂ'erin which made a
little excitement though Dufferin had spoken to

Maspero about it. Dufferin dug in the same place twenty-two years
ago. The disagreeable part of 1t is that Mustapha 13 in charge which
sets him up in Luxor estimation. Already Maspero 1s anticipating
that he will be obliged to resign before the year is over. They have

1. Koorsheedt. see Kursheed the Circassian in Lady Duff-Gordon's “Letters from Egypt." Revised edition
by Janet Ross. London, 1902. p. 231.

 

238

