[CHAPTERSIX

year I went to the famous Greek Inscription of Isis Mochias, while
Maspero climbed the hill in search of an impracticable Greek Altar.
The boat makes a very comfortable house, and we have eaten
nearly enough of our stock of provisions so that I may clear the
library and conﬁne it to legitimate uses. New Year’s Day we put up
our streamer. The blue end of it was a cook’s apron. A Hathor
hieroglyphic is applied to it in white and then on the white and
red streamers below is a hieroglyphic 7, thus:
Altogether it is our American colors adapted to
our Seven Hat/207': name. When we get where
there are good Pharaonic Hathors to copy Ned
will do something for the decoration of the boat.

At Minieh we hope to ﬁnd letters, and butter
from Isigny in France, sent up from Cairo by post.
And meat and vegetables and salt and matches.
And our Coptic reis Tanyose (Anthony) wants to
put another strip of canvas on our big sail so that the
Seven Hathors may not be behind in the light winds,
for she is very big and long and broad and has not
sail in proportion. And Insinger rather more than
keeps up though he is touring his steamer, or rather
his boat which is to be made a steamer, in Sioot.

3'": 3. ED

 

 

FROM MANFALOOT S. At Deyroot, near Tell el Amarna. Three days
7anuary 11, I887 ago Frau K ..... and dragoman went ashore
and joined us at the next railway station

bringing your letter of December sixteenth telling of the great snow
and Galignani’s telling of greater snow and to the Germans news of so
much snow in Leipzig that supplies were cut off and the mails taken
to Berlin in sleighs. This to us who are so warm in the sun! She
brought us also four and a half pounds of Isigny butter, the best
made in France, sent by the last Messageries Steamer and by post
from Cairo. It is as good as we get in Paris and is worth the eighty
cents a pound we pay for it. Hitherto I have not eaten butter in

Egypt. Even at Shepheard’s they do not have good butter. . . .

We have about got our housekeeping straightened out and I have
my seven by eight library in order at last and enjoy writing and

418

