NOVEMBER 1888 T0 JULY 1889]

and her little Scotch law-lord father who is interested in measur-
ing the light of the moon and in meteorology and many other
things. I bought of Aboo Gamb a terra cotta:
which might very well hold six short candles.
I never saw the like of it before. We dined at
the hotel in the evening with Mrs. & Mr.
Appleton, William, brother of Tom of Boston.
Mrs. had seen Lottie at Miss Gardner’s and
had called on her in Paris.

 

yanuary 9, 1889 Mr. Walter Myers, who used to come up with

Sayce in a dahabeeyeh, has come to the hotel by
the Ramses; he spent the morning with me. Lottie has varnished the
two Semaina vases I bought of Mahmood Le Deed and I rigged the
larger in a corner of the Khaznelzl. Its lotuses and hieroglyphics stand
out well. In the evening we went to a very short and early ball at the
hotel. Saeed Mustapha, who is now stationed here, told me he was
going next day to Qoos to collect the January tax. He says the peo-
ple were never in such straits for money to pay it. Many had to sell
part of their land and so great was the rush to sell cattle that bul-
locks worth eighty dollars four years ago were now sold for sixteen.

yanuary 10, 1889 Dora and I went to Karnak. I worked in the
south propylon. Afternoon I went to see M.

Mohassib’s alabaster statue; it is about ten inches high, a sitting
scribe “Khamus, son of the Scribe Amenhotep.” Alabaster statues
are never well-shapen. A Coptic cross with raised letters bother me:
I brought home a wooden label from the cemetery

near Soohag2, Demotic on one side and Greek on the
other of a man named Neilos. One may buy them by
the hundred, or might last year. We had visitors;

John Cook, Bloushﬁelds, McLarens, Mr. Kinnaird,
Mrs. Dean and Mrs. Gordon, Lottie’s fellow-travel-
lers on the Mid_Sea and on the Express boat. Mr. Withers and Alice
came and took Dora to Ahmed Mustapha’s Arab dinner. Alice told

 

I. Khazneh—Arabic for safe or strong-box.
2. U. Bouriant. "Notes de Voyage”: §2. Quelques découvertes faites en Egypte pendant l’hiver 1888-1 889.
III Sohag. in “Recueil de Travaux,” vol. XI, 1889. pp. 143-144.

501

