DECEMBER 1880 TO APRIL 1881]

It will be pretty hot on the trip to Assuan but I think I may make
it. And then we shall be down to Cairo in a few days.

THE MUDIR’S STEAMER Tuesday I found out that our quiet Mr.
part Gabe] Silri/e/z i Campbell, Campbell of Islay,1 who has
Friday published four volumes of Scotch Folk
11in 6’, 1881 Stories in Gaelic and English and who
went away ten days ago, on a previous
visit to Luxor, bought of Mustapha the Book of the Dead papyrus of
Pharaoh Pi-nezem I and that Abd-er-Rasool’s new white house is
said to be built over this King’s Tomb to hide it. M. Maspero went
over in the afternoon and came back at eleven P. M. having found
nothing but a hole in the ﬂoor in which were a few antiquities which
might be sold for ten francs. I hoped they would let him go on this,
but no, he is Mustapha’s right hand man and Mustapha must be
taught a lesson and the people be made to know that he cannot pro-
tect them, so poor Abd-er—Rasool goes down to-morrow to Keneh in
chains. As the head of the Police there is Mustapha's son, he is not
likely to suffer, and will probably be back in ten days. Doubtless he
knows where the tomb is, but if the Egyptian Government is too
lazy to make excavations to ﬁnd out for itself why should it make
knowledge in others a crime? It is not likely that the English Gov-
ernment will revoke Mustapha, for it is he who sells antiquities to
Englishmen whence they come after a few years into the British Mu-
seum. M. Maspero has frightened the people, but not enough to
prevent them from digging this summer, only enough to prevent
them from telling him where anything is.

Wednesday, leaving my room as it was, I came on board at seven
A. M. but there were delays about other business until eleven when
we started and ran to Esneh. It was very hot and Mme. Maspero and
I suffered much—she most. Her head turned and I began to feel
nausea. In my cabin it was 95°. But at night it went down to 80° and
I did not sleep badly. Yesterday was more comfortable 77° at night in
my room. Had it not been, I should have gone and tried to take Mme.
back to Luxor by the Postal Steamer from Edfoo this morning.

I. John Francis Campbell (1822-1885) Gaelic scholar, author of ”Popular Tales of the West Highlands"
(1860—1862). Encyclopaedia Britannica. He bought during the winter 1875-1876 for four hundred
pounds the Book of the Dead of the High-priest of Arnon and King Pinedjem ll. See G. Maspero. "Les
Marnie: royalea de Deir e1 Bahari." p. 512 and pl. 1.

67

 

