DECEMBER 1880 T0 APRIL 1881]

Luxoa It is growing warmer. Yesterday we went over to
Friday Deir el Bahari where the great Queen imbibes the
April I, 1881 milk of immortal life direct from Heifer Hathorl and I
made a little plan of it and marked what I had photo-
graphed at home in those dark days, so that I may know on which
wall each sacred symbol stands. We came back to the White House
and I wrote for Abd—er-Rasool a new sign on paper: “The New White
House, Abd-er-Rasool, Proprietor,” and he gave us coffee, so good
that we took two cups each and curdled milk in a dish with two tin
spoons. All the mummies and mummy cases and big things are care-
fully packed away, for is not the great Mudir of the Anteekeh2 coming
up the River in his steamer with thirty—two in his suite? Wednesday
they told me he was at Keneh and would arrive at ﬁve; but when I
went to see him, 10, it was only the Khedive’s brother. Maspero’s
boat was behind; they had seen it at Minieh. Abd-el-Megeed has a
big stone which he will put in Mme. Pagnon’s garden for the present;
they tell me he is a dreadful liar, but he has lent me his umbrella.
Mustapha has the most astonishing discoveries for me, a great place,
big as Karnak all full of hieroglyphics which nobody has seen; it is in
the desert and I am to discover it next November as it is rather too
hot now. Then there are untold tombs besides for me to open when I
get the permit to dig. Meantime would I get Maspero to appoint him
General Agent here for Upper Egypt so that he may open what he
likes, send to Boulak what he likes and sell the rest. The big papyrus
which I saw when I ﬁrst came up, and which I thought I would offer
£30 or £40 or £50 for now that everybody has gone away, was I hear
exchanged for £300 out back by the Tombs of the Queens one dark
night. It was taken to Belgium by the Count de Mérode3 and I shall
have to go there to see it. What a picture was that of the exchange.
The rocky desert, the lone Arab, the Syrian Christian Dragoman; I
know them all. .

1. Alluding to the reliefs in the Hathor-goddess sanctuary. See J. C apart and M. Werbrouck. “Thebes:
The Glory of a Great Past.” New York. 1926. ﬁg. 141, p. 221.

2. Arabic for Director of the Antiquities Department.

3. In the Wilbour papers at Brooklyn there is a letter from Count H. De Mérode of June 1.1. 1883: "The
papyrus was not sold to me but to one of my friends in Vienna. Only today I received a letter from him,
into which I learned that he has been deceived on that the pretended papyrus was only of a Arab paper
without any consequence carefully packed up into the wooden statue of a Egyptian King. . . . I beg
you pardon to whright such a dreadful English."

63

