NOVEMBER 1890 TO MAY 1891]

ﬁnd them pleasant acquaintance. Besides he is doing something with
hieroglyphics.

The eighth I drove over to the town and on my return found the
new felucca, which had arrived by rail from Mansoorah the sixth,
waiting for me, the Seven Hat/20m having started with a good wind an
hour before. Its sails had not arrived, being made by an Alexandrian
Levantine who said he was too good a Christian to work in the holi-
days, so I had had put in the mast and sail of the old felucca. We
gained on the dahabeeyeh considerably, but she had to wait a while
to take me up for dinner. Meantime Professor Sayce in his [star
which had started an hour before the Hat/20m, had gone on to Hel-
wan and sent a man over thither for table—linen Mrs. Oculist Lansing
was hemming for him. We came up and he said he was sailing faster
than we and would overtake us. So we came on reaching Rikkah at
midnight, forty-ﬁve miles.

7anuary 9, 1891 We all four went over to the Pyramid of Meydoom

where Petrie is at work. He has found the platform
about the pyramid and hopes to clean out the corridor now ﬁlled up.
He has completed the demolition of the tomb of Atet where the fa-
mous geese, now in the Museum, were found, only scraps were left.1
At the Mastaba of Rahotep is his principal work. Here he has found
the Central well, one side of the bottom of which is closed by a huge
slab, the groove in the brick work showing where it was let down from
above. At one end of this Mastaba behind the tomb of Rahotep was
found the famous double statue; at the other end behind the similar
false door of his wife Nefert, Petrie has found indications of a room.
He dared not open it until the rule ofdivision was settled and so came
to Cairo and at his instance it was that the Council was held. Now he
is ready to open the room, and I hope to hear from it soon. We break—
fasted in his camp. He has a cot bed in the tomb of Nefer—maat,
whither he retires at dusk to write and read, for he has a few miscella-
neous books, “a pinch of books,” he said, and two tents, one a kitchen
with a petroleum stove. He lives mainly on London food, sent out to
him from Civil Service Stores in boxes, each holding three weeks’
rations, does his own cooking, lives with Arabs only and pays the

 

1. E. Grébaut, “be Musée égyptien." Vol. I. Text by G. Maspero. Cairo, 1890—1900. p1. XXIX and pp.
26-27; the painting was removed by Vassalli.

579

