NOVEMBER 1885 TO MAY 1886]

copied four years ago and Maspero published in the Zie'z'tsc'lzrzft;l the
ostriches have increased to four hundred, but they must have a
thousand to make money at these low prices for feathers. We came
back through the sunset. In the evening Philo came to see me; Judge
Kinsman spoke to me of him, but I had looked at the New and not at
the Royal Hotel for him. He said he could not get in at Shepheard’s
and indeed it is almost full; there are more travellers than before
since the occupation, still the red coats and their women predomi-
nate. Philo has a son of rich, California-rich, Mark Hopkins with
him and they will be in Luxor before us. So too my table-neighbor,
Miss Rowden, an English girl with a heart that stops betimes, who
lent me a turquoise ring for my purchase Thursday of Asadallah; I
think I got a much better stone than hers. Her mother distributes Dr.
Lansing’s Arab tracts. They are here for the daughter’s heart.

Dr. Grant brought F linders Petrie2 and a lank Mr. Grifﬁths3 to see
me. Petrie told me about isochromatic plates for photography which
are sensitive to the yellow rays; they will be invaluable for all things
yellowed by time and for paintings. He says he is going to look about
many towns in the Delta and then to resume his work at Tanis. I did
not tell you that the British Consul-judge at Alexandria was kind
enough to telegraph to N aucratis the site of which Petrie has dis-
covered, to see if he was there; the judge wished me to stop there, but
it rained in the night and when I passed the nearest station, Tell el
Barood, in the morning, the roads looked greasy and discouraging.
So instead of donkeying six miles to meet Mr. Gardner, Petrie’s
assistant, at Naucratis, now called Nebeereh, I came straight on to
Cairo, thinking the road would be better on my return. The Greek
inscription which identiﬁes Nebeereh as Naucratis is built into a
house and this encourages Petrie to hope that he may spy out dis-
coveries without digging. He is not near-sighted.

Saturday morning, my washing, including six shirts ironed but
not dried, was delivered, and with a turquoise and an old praying
carpet a metre by four feet, and thirty-ﬁve Egyptian pounds, and
twelve hundred piastres in a bag, and iodine and camphor and some

I. Vol. XIX, 1881. p. 116.

2. W. M. Flinders Petrie. "Ten Years digging in Egypt." 2nd edit.. London. 1893. Chapter IV, Daphnae-
Tahpanhea. 1886. See also Flinders Petrie, “Seventy Years in Archaeology." London. 1930.

3. F. Ll. Griffith. English Egyptologist. born in 1862. see “Studies" presented to F. Ll. Grifﬁth. London.
1932. Introduction by Robert Mond.

341

