[CHAPTERSEVEN

me by name and had a lot of letters, fourteen, including one from
Philo in Chicago, who talks of going to the Windward Islands for the
winter. He gave me also.his French copy of the R. R. Guide sheet; he
said they had an Arabic one which was enough for them. I had copied
this up as far as Beni Sooef and this saved me copying further.
Moorgaan has bought a big turkey to fatten for Christmas at one
dollar twenty cents, almost half what we would pay in Paris. He has
been feeding me on a delicate lamb of ﬁfteen pounds for one dollar
and eighty-seven cents. For beef I paid eleven cents a pound in Cairo,
here it begins to fall. In Cairo eggs were nine for ﬁve cents; at a vil—
lage day before yesterday sixteen; but they are small, three for two
of ours. Chickens have fallen from twenty cents to ﬁfteen. But these
prices will grow less as we recede from the Capital. Pigeons were ten
cents in Cairo, here seven and Moorgaan cooks them so well that
they are quite endurable. He himself is very costly, twenty-ﬁve
dollars a month, and the waiter is twenty—two dollars, but the Cap-
tain gets but twelve dollars, the pilot nine dollars and the twelve men
each only six dollars, while their cook boy has three dollars. Last
winter we paid seven dollars but many who were engaged by the Eng-
lish Army and boats are now out of work and travellers do not come
much yet. Of dahabeeyehs, two Cook’s have gone up, de Gonzenbach
a Swiss in the Sesostrz's and Mrs. Hassall in the Phi/ibis. Then one,
French, passed us working night and day to get to Sioot where their
pay begins. Then an American I am told passed one night, a Mr.
Large, the men say. And Aboo Shanab and Mr. Barclay are behind.

Monday No wind as yesterday, for us. Aboo Shanab
December 19, 1887 came with a rudder to ﬁx. Piehl, the Swedish
Egyptologue whom I have known in Paris and

on Maspero’s steamer and who seemed two or three years ago to have
something the matter with his brain, I had seen in Cairo and knew
that he and his little wife were coming up in a little boat. They came
tracking up to-day and I had them and Aboo Shanab to dinner.
Piehl appears much better; she has a good effect on him. He is to stop
and work some time in Beni Hassan. The little boat costs them
twenty pounds a month for ﬁve months and they have a cook and
plenty of rats and very little room. It was rather aggravating to them

448

