NOVEMBER I889 TO MARCH 1890]

thing on a group of rocks a mile southwest and the Professor started
for them. He came back with inscriptions, Greek names with Egyp-
tian fathers and a tale of fragments of terra cotta

sarcophagi; it was the burial place of these mon-

grelsl. We had brought to the boat the seat of a l I l
statue with unknown letters on the back like this: l 4
In the evening Ned and I went to the Timma/z l d
and Mr. A. P. Maudslay, who has worked seven X
seasons on the Mayan antiquities in Central l____l,
America, showed and explained to us many ﬁne

photographs taken by him at Copan. He with four

others of his family are on one of Cook’s new dahabeeyehs, the one
he showed me, the Osiris, at a cost of twelve pounds and a half a

day, Mr. Robertson says.

 

 

February 12, 1890 I worked on my stele at Seheyl till eleven, then

donkeyed along the very picturesque river path,
for more than a quarter of a mile in full View of my inscription, to
Philae at noon whither Ned and the girls had come to lunch with the
Newman’s on their little dahabeeyeh, the Nigma. They seemed very
cozy and happy and think they shall never be content on land in
Egypt again. He pointed out to me the views he means to paint next
winter. Mr. Maudslay showed us his drawings and photographs in
the evening.

February 13, I890 The north wind vetoed our starting; so we all

except Lottie and Linnie went to Seheyl for a
general survey. We found on the east side of the southeast group
of rocks a square place cut out, which was probably the holy of
holies‘~’. Fragments of statues, steles and pottery cumber the ground;
the side of a naos with a large ﬁgure sculptured thereon marks the
focus of worship. Its peculiar yellow metamorphic sandstone lies
about in a thousand small fragments and hundreds of inscriptions,
mostly of the Eighteenth and Nineteenth Dynasties, face it on every
side, especially to the east from another group of rocks. Sayce, up
with me two days before, had noticed in a house of the village a

 

1. lbidem. pp. 125-127.
2. “Catalogue des Monuments et Inscriptions de l'Egypte antique.” Vol. I. Vienna. 1894, pp. 77. 79 and 83.

553

