[CHAPTERSIX

Mrs. Foote came from Algiers to Alexandria arriving just when
they did and meeting them in the Custom House. She is going up in
the Cook boat tomorrow with the Blackies and we shall see her in
Luxor, where she will stop a month or more in the Hotel.

Dr. Grant was in to see us to-day and complimented me on my
family. Our new Consul General, Mr. Cardwell, came to see us yes-
terday. He seems a pleasant well-meaning man, but I do not think
him suited to effective work in Egypt. He complains that when he
wants to get anything done, there are insufferable delays in the de-
partments of the Egyptian Government. The truth is that in order to
push things you must have friends. Several of the Pyramid Beda-
ween have shown me and I have bought things from Tell el Bag-
leeyeh,1 an hour northwest of Simbellaween, various relics of a shrine
of Thoth, bronze ibises, cynociphali, ibis eggs and such, which lead
me to believe that perhaps this is the seat of the Fifteenth Nome of
Lower Egypt, sacred to Thoth and hitherto unidentiﬁed. Its old
name Bahh might easily be changed to Baghl and so give us the

modern name “The Mound of the Mules.”

We have held Council over the boat’s name and have concluded to
call her The Seven Hat/20m. It lends itself to hieroglyphic decoration
and Egyptians will call her “Seven,” Seéa. We ﬁnd the Seven Ha-
thors on most of the more perfect temples. When the Doomed
Prince was born, the Seven Hathors came to make him a destiny. In

the sky they are the Pleiades.

Being a wooden boat she would almost ﬂoat if full of water, but in
order to make a life boat I am having four hundred empty petro-
leum cans scaled up to be put in her holds at its sides. If she should
ever ﬁll with water they will lift seven tons and so prevent her from
sinking. I have done this so that Lottie might sleep better—it makes
her a life boat.

SEVEN HATHORS We came on board Saturday the eighteenth and
Deceméer 20, 1886 have not digested our trunks. And yesterday we

took on board four hundred dollars worth of pro-
visions, which is still more undigested. So you see we have a con-

 

I. Tell e1 Baqlieh. sec H. Gauthier. "Dictionnaire des noms géographiques." vol. II. Cairo. 1925. p. 16.

414

