NOVEMBER 1888 TO JULY 1889]

three inches long. There are thirty or forty moulds for making porce-
lain amulets and rings; I got as many last year. The Prime 115543,
Cook’s ﬁrst tourist boat came along at seven and reported the
American dahabeeyeh (Mr. Withers’) at Ayrat and the Moskoo
(Golenischeff’s) starting when they did, on the twentieth. The wind
changed from south to north about noon and we came on to Aboo
Ganoob where is a post ofﬁce whence I hope to send this tomorrow.

I had the ﬁrst washing done to-day. Aly pronounces it excellent.
Idrees takes the place of Besheer, who, they say, is magnoon.1

Talking with the Aly about the sailor’s bread, I told him that in
Tanyos’ time they put fool (beans) in with the ground wheat. He
said it made men strong but stupid. It wasn’t done before Mo-
hammed Aly’s time. He found that when he in the citadel at night
planned to do anything, the Cairenes knew it in the morning. So he
said these people are too bright they must eat fool. And he made
them eat fool three or four times a day.

November 24, 1888 I put my last in the post ofﬁce at Nezlet Ganoob

and inquired about Meir”, whence came the
wonderful mummy heads from the Fourteenth Nome. Nobody knew
anything; Nefady found a donkey, put my saddle on him and we
went in half an hour to El Kooseeyeh, Cusae—of old the capital of
the nome presided over by a grand Hathor, one of my Seven. A pic-
turesque place it is with to the south a broad low mound of ancient
dust. The Zabit Ahmed Gahmy sent out his gay-uniformed police-
men in search of informers and we chatted a little, his French being
even less than my Arabic. A young fellow, he had been here a month
only, and would gladly go with me to Meir. After many know-
nothings came Dimitry Cicinarydy of Lemnos, who had been there,
a sharp faced man of sixty, rather ﬁne and eager. He said it was three
hours to the rock tombs behind Meir; none of them had hieroglyph-
ics. But after a little cross-questioning in Italian he remembered that
there were papagallos (parrots) in some of them, in four or ﬁve per-

1. M agnoon—Arabic for crazy.

2. "2 hrs. W. of Nazali Génﬂb lies Mir and I 94 hrs. farther. on the edge of the desert. is the necropolis of
Qﬂsiya. with Rock Tombs of the princes of the nome and their relations. dating from the 6th and 12th
dynasties." Baedeker, “Egypt." 1929. p. 225.

479

