[CHAPTERSEVEN

AT KOM OMBO I copied the upper part of a very interesting text

giving the names of things in and about the temple.
But there are ten or ﬁfteen feet of the lower ends of the eight lines
which are too deep for me; stones of one or two tons lie against them.
I could not see that the high Nile had carried away anything.

AT EDFoo we found Professor and Mrs. Piehl, the Swedes; they had

been at work three weeks. After nine days’ work, princi-
pally comparing printed texts, I was tired and we left them there. It
was nearly as warm there this winter as last. Cooler weather would
be better, and there seems no end to what is to be done. The old man
who guards the temple is grown feeble and I had to scold a Herr
Exleben who shot in the sacred precinct. Here I found my eyes and
head had grown old. I had got the weakest possible spectacles from
Sussmann in Cairo, eighty inches focus, and used them occasionally,
but since Edfoo, I use them almost always when I read. It is hard to
come to it, but it is harder to diet my eyes, as Emily says and does.

AT ESNEH we did not stop, there being a good wind both times we

passed and no special attraction. \Ve heard much of the
shooting of afe/la/z who did not like to have his wheat trodden down
by an elderly Englishman, who was indignant at being obstructed in
his quail sport. Judge Cookson had to come up from Alexandria to
make out that it was unintentional. The quail shot cut a leg artery
nobody knew how to tie.

AT ERMENT we came to know the new Engineer, Monsieur Mar-

chand who supplied us with sugar and coal, which I
carried to Mr. Insinger’s little steamer, named “Puff-puff” by
Linnie; the name sticks.

AT LUXOR we saw M. Grébaut at work on the temple. The people

are so poor that he could get more men than he wanted
at seven and a half cents per day, they ﬁnding their own food and
tools. This has never been the case before and shows that English
civilization is working. Grébaut cut two broad ditches along and
across the temple down to the ancient pavement, so that standing in

460

