[CHAPTERSIX

day to Mensheeyeh for provisions. Then, on the thirtieth we came to
Mensheeyeh and saw the quaint place and ate cucumbers big as
squashes and visited Stenna Kerass’s new school and came further so
as to arrive in time at Ekhmeem next day to go to the great diggings,
hundreds of acres ploughed over twenty feet deep since they struck
on the tombs three years ago. These fellaheen are not lazy. Then we
went on to the Spring in the gorge sacred in three religions, a long
hard ride well repaid. M. Frenay, had gone to Tahtah, but had left a
present for us an old bow well preserved. In the evening I went to a
Copt’s house and bought the white marble head of “The Faun of
Panopolis,” of which I shall bring you a line drawing Ned made yes.
terday. Also a red granite statue of the same Min-mes Abd-el-Noor
showed us, covered with inscriptions of his titles as the head prophet
of this temple at Meshayk. The Copt told me it came from Abydos; I
said no, from Abd-el—Noor’s diggings at Mesheykh, to which, think-
ing me a wizard, he assented, saying he paid six pounds for it then.
However it came on board for half that. Abd-el-Noor told me he had
been offered a hundred by an Englishman for his. Money-talk is al-
ways wild here.

It is more than a fortnight since we had any mail and we are sharp
for it. We land in Sioot in a south wind only less strong than the
north wind which blinded us here as we came up.

BIBBEH ..... We are now about eighty miles from
ﬂpri/ 10, 1887 Cairo and begin to sum up our voyage. All agree
that the climate and life has been favorable to
health. Linnie has been greatly beneﬁtted; Ned’s headaches have al-
most disappeared. We have hardly had even a cold among us. Victor
has had none of the blue days which come so often in a Paris winter.
He swims and shoots and does gymnastics, teaching the sailors to do
back summersets, when he is not busy drawing and painting which is
most of the time and I think he has made nearly as good progress in
that as he could have done in Paris. Dora has been strong and well
nearly every day and I think Lottie much better than in Paris. We
have had a few days too warm for her, but not many and on the
whole I guess everybody will like to come again earlier and stay per-
haps not quite so late.

428

