NOVEMBER 1889 TO MARCH 1890]

put them together and copied their inscriptions. The necropolis of
Ombos has not hitherto been known. Digging would doubtless de-
velop much. The Osiris came up and Maudslay gave Ned for me
negatives, very ﬁne, of my great stele at Seheyl. We came on past

Silsileh.

February 17, 1890 About four miles to a rock Mr. Chester had

pointed out, where we found a whole menagerie
of animals sculptured, giraffes mostly, but a few lions, hippopotami,
dogs, cattle and many antelopes, and inscriptions not a few, includ-
ing three Phenician, one each to Isis, Horus and Khnum, one
Carian, elsewhere found at Abydos, and a harvest of Greek, some
ante-Ptolemaic, hitherto unknown in Upper Egypt‘. It was a holy
place. We tied up for the night a mile below at the quarry of Gebel
' Heshan, where Sayce found last year a Greek inscription that that
stone was taken thence for the pylon at Edfoo.

February 18, 1890 Nine steamers to-day. We went up a mile north

of Toom to the Egyptian town corresponding to
it. There were no inscriptions but a wonderful View up and down the
river. Then the Timsaah got on the sand and our men went back a
mile and lifted her off, and we tea-ed together, as we do mostly and

tied up at Edfoo.

February 19, 1890 We passed the morning in the temple. The old

guardian, Mohammed Efendi, seems brighter
than last year. Ned wanted to sketch me on a ladder; so I had to copy
a text; it was a short one. Since De Rochemonteix, who spent two
years here, has begun to publish his complete copy, I do not wish to
copy fragments. But it is and always will be interesting and inspiring
to walk about and see the has-reliefs and know what they mean. The
genii of the place are powerful; I do not wonder that Hassan Bey,
late Governor of Assuan, told us one day that the temple at Edfoo
was full of spirits, especially at night when he had seen many. We
came on a little way and

 

I. A. H. Sayce, “The Karian and Lydian Inscriptions" in “Proceedings of the Society of Biblical Archae-
ology." vol. XVII. 1895. pp. 41—43; and 207; id. ”Karian, Ara maic. and Greek Grafﬁti from Heshan,"
ibidem. vol. XXX, 1908, pp. 28—29.

555

