NOVEMBER 1888 TO JULY 1889]

passport therefor in Champollion’s time. \Ve were visited by the
Murches, Todros’ son-in—law, the school master-preacher, Dr.

Boase, M. Mohassib and A. Megeed.

yanuary 3, 1889 We made up seventy-ﬁve more cards and visited
the temple.

yanuary 4, 1889 The Cook steamer towed our felucca to Luxor

where we took on board three trunks sent up as
freight. The cost of them, two big ones, was ﬁve dollars and seventy-
ﬁve cents to Sioot and two dollars and thirty-ﬁve cents on the boat,
while their two little steamer trunks were eight dollars on the rail-
road to Sioot alone. Lottie heard a strange noise in the night said to

be a hyen a.

yanuary 5, 1889 . . . . . Aboo Gamb brought me things among

which I found a scarab of the sole King of the
Twenty-eighth Dynasty, Amyrtaus‘. There is a board of the cofﬁn of
his granddaughter, containing his name in Berlin, and in the Louvre
a crystal vase; my scarab is the third monument known of this
dynasty.

747mm“)! 6, 1889 I went over to Karnak and corrected texts. Bouri—

ant has received by telegraph complete permission
and has dug a little about the Amon temple of Ramses III and
around the Colossi south of the Horus propylon. Went again in the
afternoon and returning Nefady shouldered a stone lying loose
about ten yeards south of the pylon of Thothmes 12. It has a ﬁve-
line inscription giving the many titles of a certain Hor-m-heb and his
father. Last night I loaded a riﬂe for Dora to shoot the hyena. To-day
Ahmed Aly came and gave her much hyena lore. When the Khedive

r. Amyrtaus. No hieroglyphic inscription of this king is known. There was a confusion between Amyrtaua
and Rudarnen of the XXIII dynasty. See H. Gauthier. “Livre des Rois d'Egypte." vol. IV. Cairo. 1916,
p. 159; the board of the cofﬁn in Berlin is quoted in the same work, vol. III. Cairo, 19r4. p. 394; the
crystal vase in the Louvre ibidern, p. 392. The scarab in the Wilbour Collection in the Brooklyn Mu-
seum is the only one known of King Rudamcn.

2. The ﬁfth pylon of Kamak erected by Thothmes I.

499

