[CHAPTER THREE

Maspero. It was a grown son of Tanyos’s sister, his father being one
of the four Coptic priests here. He had been stung on the side of the
instep an hour before and they had put wet cloths on it. He lay and
made no noise. He did not seem to know it when I stuck the needle in.
This morning Tanyos told me that after three hours he vomited and
then it was all over; he was well. It was late when Maspero got back
and told us how he took the party through tombs and temples, gave
an eloquent description of the transport of the mummy, took them
through from one tomb fronting on one side of the mountain, to an-
other tomb fronting on the other side, how nice the little girls were,
and how Lady D. must have been handsome, what a nice hot break—
fast they had at Deyr-el-Medeenet which was so much better than
Medeenet Haboo, and so forth.

Monday I worked a little in the temple of Luxor. All Duf-
March 26, I883 ferin’s digging on the other side costs him but a
pound a day; so he told me and then after reﬂection
corrected the pound to eighteen shillings. He may be an adroit man,
but my feeling of him is that he is far from able. A little dog of the
famous Erment breed has been presented by Mme. Bouillon from
Erment for the Museum; he enlivens the night not a little. In the
evening I went over to Karnak with Mr. Garwood, the Moneys,
Daninos whom we dined with at Feshn last year and Mackenzie
Wallace, known by his book about Russia and now here for the
Times. The night was glorious and for the ﬁrst time I saw the ruins
from the top of the east wall by moonlight. It is a sight to see.

GOOD-BYE T0 THEBES I expected to get up in Coptos but Dufferin
Tuesday wanted to go with Maspero thither and
March 27, 1883 wanted to see his diggings once more, so the
boat was waiting for him. He came back at

nine—thirty and we were off at ten. Everybody was about, to say
good-bye, except the Consuls, who had done so the night before, and
little Achmet ﬁred the double-barreled gun and the pistol while his
father waved his red handkerchief as we passed. \Ve pass by the
great pylon of Karnak, and Luxor is far in the rear and the projecting
mountain cuts off ﬁrst De’r-el-Bahari and then the rest; and so good-
bye to Thebes. At noon Dufferin’s boat, which had started later,

240

