NOVEMBER I888 TO JULY 1889]

December 13, 1888 Met the French Consul General and party

coming out of the temple, no tickets. They are
doing the Nile with the steamer and dahabeeyeh of the Domaines in
three weeks. Aly says that the slaves of Ahmed Pasha were so down-
hearted that they did not eat for four days and of the forty only
twelve were found ﬁt by the English doctor at Keneh. Moorganny
thinks we ought to paint the fore deck (a third time) before the silt
comes, and the Rais got six dollars’ worth of paint and oil therefor.

Deceméer I4, 1888 The donkey-boy reports that Haggi Hamed is

on the Wekeel’s boat with Rais Abdallah, our
pilot two years ago. As yesterday I spent ﬁve hours in the temple,
enough for my eyes.

Deceméer 15, 1888 Spent the day in the temple, and out; I wish

the British would have the same trouble and
evacuate. Half a dozen Cook’s express men came in without tickets.
Aly Eﬁendi is back from Cairo. Grébaut is to have the same impossi-
ble boat and start up in ﬁfteen days. The Cairene atmosphere has not
impressed Aly with a high idea of his master. I went to the boat and
to bed at half past four.

Deceméer 16, 1888 After a restless night, thickened milk and sage

tea I felt better and kept still. Went over to the
Keneh landing where Golenischeff who had arrived yesterday, hailed
me as he sailed away southwards. Oorooshwan came and told me he
had been to see Haggi Hamed. Twenty-three days ago when the
slave pressgang began, the Wekeel discharged him and ever since he
had been shut in nobody coming to see him but Rais Abdallah and
there was no money in the house. I told Oorooshwan that I hired him
for a month and sent him half the month’s pay to leave with his wife
who has a small Haggi Hamed. At dark Showoolly brought the post
and Oorooshwan the Haggi, with Rais Abdallah’s blessing on the
Howaga, and we sailed to Qooft. Aly told me that from F arshoot
slaves had run to the mountain, had been pursued by soldiers, had
killed ﬁve and wounded ﬁve more. Also that they could no longer
be ransomed.

493

