NOVEMBER 1889 TO MARCH 1890]

a mistake of the Steamer Co. The Collector, Mr. Caillard, kindly
waived over four dollars of storage. Came to Cairo at three forty-ﬁve
after calling ﬁve minutes on the Barringers.

Noveméer 28, 1889 With the Rais got my plate glass, opened it,

found it perfect and got it on board as well as
the freight baggage, sail and all. Started the deck work and the bala-
coon. I ﬁnd at the Hotel Mr. Schuyler the new Consul General who
has a Thanksgiving Reception, Mr. Mills, the young English Painter,
General Winslow and wife and my three New Bedford voyagers,
William and Susan Thompson and Ruth Munay, daughters of Wm.
C. Taber and our cousins. Dr. Lansing’s Wife buried yesterday.

CAIRO Yesterday my New Bedford Quaker cousins, for
Wednesday the women are descendants of Philip Taber and
December 4, 1889 like him, preachers, went off up the river in the
Ramses and with them thirty-three more, includ-
ing General Winslow and wife, and Painter and Mrs. Newman. He
has been at Ramleh at work a month and now goes straight up to
Philae where Mr. Cook has a dahabeeyeh ready for them to live in. I
have visited the boat twice nearly every day, which gives me donkey-
riding ample for digestion. The deck is re-caulked and puttied, with
red lead in the putty; the boats have new planks in place of three or
four bad ones; the paint is bought for all the outside and the decks;
the new yard eighty feet long is fashioned and the new sail is being
sewed by the sailors glad to get work. Black Moorgaan, the cook, is
grinning and getting a new pipe to the stove. There is much washing
and the painting goes on tomorrow. One sailor is engaged, Aly’s
brother Ahmed, who can read and write Arabic, a good thing for
them. ‘

To-day the Russian Snazeen told me he would have to go home
without seeing the Geezeh Museum; so I extended my dahabeeyeh
afternoon trip in his carriage to the great Palace where we found
Grébaut hard at work and well advanced. Of the nine thousand
pounds given him for moving, three thousand had to be spent in
strengthening the building, which took ﬁve months. Six weeks he has
been arranging things and that work is nearly half done. In ten days

539

