[CHAPTER THREE

tions. But we had less than two hours, for we had taken four hours to
come from Ashmooneyn, and before half ﬁnishing the stele we had to
leave, hoping to see it again on our return. Half way back to ToonehI
we crossed the site of an old town and many walls of brick dried and
burnt and of stone. We meandered an hour less on the return to
Ashmooneyn but had no time to see its two square miles of ruins and
then took our special railway carriage, this time attached to a sugar-
cane train and after an hour of picking up cane got back in time for
an eight o’clock dinner; they waited an hour for us. After my seven
hours’ jolt I did not feel ambitious.

Friday This morning after M. Maspero had paid his
yanuary 26, 1883 respects to the Moofettish we started for
Tell-el-Amarna. The rocks along the east bank
are full of historic tombs and we watched them. Looking from the
bridge, to get a better view over the bank at the place where the
statue of Thothotep2 is being drawn on the sledge, I noticed that the
captain had his men drawn up in line and was haranguing them with
a piece of soap in his hand. Soon after M. Maspero told me that the
crew had struck for a higher price for washing than last year and
that he would not be dictated to by them, but would go in immedi-
ately to Sioot, have the washing done without them and do the week
at Amarna on the way back. So on we are going. We stopped off
Dayroot to send a letter to the Post that our mail ordered there be
sent to Sioot. This gave me a chance to show with the telescope one
of Khu-en—Aten’s four steles which none of the rest had seen, but on
the visit to which alone last year I found the fragments of the
statues of the King and Queen.

To SIOOT Last night we tied up at Manfaloot and to-day

Saturday we reached Sioot in the afternoon in time for a

yanuary 27, 1883 trip to the Bazaar and out to the Cemetery. A

donkey boy who remembered that last spring I

went beyond to a Darfoor caravan said it was too early in the season

yet to ﬁnd the Gellab. I got a yellow silk and cotton handkerchief to
wear on the head, from Mecca.

l. The ruins of Tooneh (Tania)? See E. Jomard, “Description dcs mines d’Achmouneyn ou Hermopolis
Magma.” in ”Description de I'Egypte." Paris. 1821. vol. IV, pp. 181—182.
2. P. E. Newberry. “El Bersheh." vol. I. London. 1894. pl. X11 and XV.

200

