OCTOBER I881To APRIL 1882]

Princess Mer—aten, daughter of the heretic (Unitarian) King Ameno—
phis IV, who seems in this Heliopolis, City of the Sun, to have raised
some monument to his One God of the Sun. The stone is so impor-
tant that M. Maspero will send for it and add it to the Museum col—
lection.

\Vednesday morning Mr. Garwood called for Mr. Faber and me
and took us to his shops at Boulak where fourteen hundred Arabs and
three Englishmen build, rebuild and repair all the locomotives and
cars used on Egyptian Railways, besides doing something of almost
everything else. I saw the thirty-inch brass cylinder for which we are
waiting, revolve in the lathe; in two days more it is to be on board,
a ticklish piece of work which they have never done before. I have
seen nothing of modern time which gives so encouraging an idea
of Egyptian capacity as these shops. Garwood told us good stories
about difﬁculties with the men. Any man is likely to be closely
related to a prince or a pasha. The wife of the station master at
Zagazig is the sister of the dethroned Ismael. \Valking through the
works with the Khedive’s private secretary one day, he saw a man
who earns ten pounds a month rush up and kiss him, his brother, “a
bad lot,” the secretary said. He had made a law that no locomotive
engineer should carry anything private. Thirty ducks were heard one
day quacking in a tender and the engineer was brought up next Fri-
day for court martial. He preached a little to the man on the enormity
of the transgression; the fellow answered: “why, it’s all a mistake, the
ducks were sent as a present to you.” A little this side of Suez the en-
gineer always had a hot box; it was found on investigation that be
supplied Suez with garden stuff from his place there. On the Fayoom
road sacks of wheat disappeared from the cars; long search was made
in vain. He followed camel tracks to a place where a hundred and
twenty sacks were hidden in the sand. Looking about he found a
Bedaween encampment and children clad in the sacks inverted over
them, holes being made for the head and arms. The two headmen
were taken; one had a belt with three hundred and ﬁfty guineas.
They had ﬁshed off the sacks from trains in motion with a rope and

large hook. And so forth.

At the Hotel du Nil I found the VViedemanns in very good health
and spirits; they expect to get to Luxor before I do. The Hagens were

83

