DECEMBER 1882 TO APRIL 1883]

last summer, but the war prevented; the mud may this. The deep
water makes it too troublesome to go to the other side; I will work a
few days on this. I would like to spend some days and nights there
when it is warm enough to sleep in the Valley of the Great Dead
without being cold. . . . . . Thus far we have had no such cold
weather as last year. It is pleasant out in the evening everywhere but
in the desert.

AN ANCIENT ACQUITTAL I took a rest to-day. Went over the pub—
Tuesday lication Navillel made of the text he un—
February 13, 1883 covered last year at the east end of the
Pylon of Horus at Karnak. It is quite
interesting. The great ark of Ammon is borne on the shoulders of
priests, behind it Maut’s ark on the right and Khonsu’s on the left.
Long inscriptions tell who and what they are and what it is all about.
The third Pinoiem, the son of that Isis—m-Kheb, whose papyrus I
have seen, part at Prince Ibrahim’s palace and part in Mohammed
Abd-er—R asool’s den, was high priest of Ammon. There was a question
whether Thothmes Swamonson, the high steward, should be tried for
embezzlement. Two papers were prepared, one an indictment, the
other a mile prosegui, and the high priest one morning laid them be-
fore the god. The great God took the second and rejected the ﬁrst and
this long inscription, a dozen 8° pages, was chiselled all over the foot
of the end of the pylon to set at rest Theban gossips and to explain
why Thothmes continued to be high steward. Naville makes this an
occasion to ﬁnd fault with Brugsch’s interpretation of two texts of
the same time. Brugsch will some day take the revenge of translating
this text so as to make Naville’s work on it seem ridiculous. Old
Mustafa showed me a man who gave me an old staff, two or three
thousand years and perhaps more, with a horn head and a brass
ferule at bottom. I called at the Karnak Hotel; they have one guest,
Mr. Greville Chester2 who makes a voyage yearly to buy antiquities
to sell again.

I. E. Naville. ”Inscription historique de Pincdjem III. Grand Prétre d'Ammon a Thebes." Paris. 1883.
See J. H. Breasted. op. cit... vol. IV. Chicago, 1906. pp. 327-328.

2. Rev. Greville John Chester (1830—1892). See ”In Mcmoriam," by Reginald Stuart Poole. in ”Nilus da
due signore." London. a. d. (1893?). Greville J. Chester, was the author of a “Catalogue of the Egyptian
Antiquities in the Ashmolean Museum.” Oxford. 1381. See E. A. Wallis Budge. "By Nile and Tigris."
London. 1920. vol. I. pp. 84—85.

215

