FEBRUARY 1884. TO MAY 1884]

One sees here a great many well dressed women with good forms
and in good form. Their build is quite American and their dress more
ﬁtting. If in North Germany the women are inferior to the men, here
they are superior in appearance.

Whenever you see Tea on a sign here you see Rum before or after
it; I have not yet seen an exception. It would be shocking to a tea-
drinking tee-totaller. I hear they drink them together. In a café after
you have finished your cup they bring you two more glasses of water,
you have already had one. When there is a large party these glasses
look odd enough. There are a great many milk places, more and more
frequented than I have seen elsewhere. And the milk and cream are
good. So too is the coffee. Every tenth horse you see is tackled to one
side of a pole and there isn’t any horse on the other side. Meal stores

abound and everybody eats black bread.

VIENNA There was a great sensation here yesterday after-
Satura’ay noon when the Stadt theater burned; everybody
May 17, I884 remembered the King Theater not yet quite rebuilt
where three hundred and sixty people were burned

three years ago. It was a splendid sight but I did not know it
until I saw it in the six o’clock zﬂlgemeine Zeitung and then for blocks
away the public were kept back by the police. Still we Could see from
far the glorious triumphant ﬂames. This morning the papers are full
of it and of the gallantry of the Volunteer Fire department, which
seems here to be the amusement of Counts and Barons. So full as al-
most to forget the New York Panic, which though relieved in New
York yesterday has appeared in London strangely and by sympathy
even here. Governments are down; people want money; they don’t
quite know what is coming. I think in New York it was merely a
stock speculation and perhaps the last result of the shrinkage in
Northern Paciﬁcs. I am glad that the Drexel houses stand it so well.
Bob Hutchings foresaw this when I last saw him; I hope he has been
able to make something out of his prescience. I was surprised to see
Fisk and Hatch fail and especially to see a false reason given for it.

I wonder how our printers are getting along. I copied a sarcopha-
gus yesterday, like one in the Louvre with which I wish to compare it
and to—day von Bergmann took me into the unﬁnished Art building

325

