[CHAPTER ONE

Delta; then East, Cairo, the Citadel with the minarets of its great
mosque piercing the mountain-bound horizon beyond, then the
Mokattam and Tura range and the far away South, then the pyra-
mids of Abooseer, Sakkarah and Dashoor and so around to the
West where mountain waves of advancing sand seem, from a horizon
not more than a mile away, to command and threaten the pyramids
themselves. Under us lay the tombs like a map, before us the great
green lake spotted with the black of habitations and dotted with
groups of palms, through it ran the blue line of the Nile marked by
the high sails of the Cabeen-rigged dahabeeyehs; above coasted real
American clouds in an American summer sky. Meantime the three
other American ladies had come with noon and our lunch and we
went down, passing the entrance and the inscription over it, which
Mr. Bonomi told me he had drawn, the deiﬁcation of Frederick
William IV, by Lepsius,l and ate under the shadow of the V iceroy’s
Kiosque in peace, three dogs only attending to clear away the bones.
An old Arab came at the end with coffee which I drank with the
Sheikh and then Ibrahim himself took us the round of the tombs. We
crawled into those of Sashem—mfer and I mery? Mr. Fair/arm and
Mr. Camelove. The three or four Bedaween were most attentive
listeners to the lines I read. In one place I was able to say that by
clearing away the sand for a few inches they would ﬁnd a herd of
goats trampling the ground in lieu of ploughing and when they found
it my reputation was made. They told Mrs. Young privately that it
was a very long time since anybody had been there who knew how
to read as well as I.

So we wandered about and wondered over the great blocks of
syenite which covered and still in part cover the third Pyramid;
we saw the name, unheard of in this place by me before, of the archi—
tect [Mai son of Bek—n-ﬂmon (Abd-Allah, servant of God) of Thebes,
who served Ramses II and left his two rod card on the square sur—
rounding the second Pyramid;3 we came down to “Campbell’s”

I. Inscription cut near the entrance of the great pyramid as a commemoration of the Lepsius Expedition
in 1843. See Richard Lepsius ”Discoveries in Egypt. Ethiopia and the Peninsula of Sinai in the years
1842—1845.” London. 2nd edition. 1853. pp. 32—34.

2. Tombs 45 and 16 of Lepsius. See Bertha Porter and Rosalind L. B. Moss. "Topographical Bibliography
of Ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphic Texts. Reliefa and Paintings." Vol. III. Memphis. Oxford. 1931.
pp. 39 and Is: (henceforth) Porter-Moss. "Topographical Bibliography."

3. U. Holscher. “Das Grabdenkmal des Konigs Chephren." Leipzig. 191 2. pp. 66—67.

12

