[CHAPTER FOUR

LUXOR I loafed about in the sunny morning and in the
Wednesday Hotel read the St. James Tory abuse of Gladstone
March 5, 1884 for his murders in the Soudan and the Pall Mall
Gazette’s Liberal semi-abuse of ditto. This in papers
only nineteen days old. It seemed a little like getting into the world.
Aly Moorad came on board for an hour and wanted to dig and I got
him permission. And what do you think the old fellow wants Mrs.
Moulton to send him now? Encouraged by the watch and the watch
chain he wants a half dozen pairs of woollen stockings, the Paris
stockings are so much softer than those they make here and he must
wear woollen in the summer because it is better for the eyes. The
dark but romantic admirer!

Toward night I rode over on my ﬁrst visit this year to Karnak!
For two or three years the sides of the great doorway by which you
enter the Hypostile Hall, have shown that they were crushing in, and
now, two or three stones have fallen. Bad for what it is and worse for
what it threatens. My Karnak contractor carefully accompanied
me and pointed out a corner of a stone in the southeastern part of
the great temple enclosure, which he said had been uncovered by the
diggers for dust, and the under side of which was full of hieroglyphics.
He will dig it out and turn it over. He is to clear out the Library of
Maut in her temple and I hope to save that. Also a stray statue of
Sekhmet which did not get very far on its travels. I found a little
temple of Tahraka which Vassilli could not show us last year,
though he had copied it, and Mariette did not put on his map be-
cause it was not on the map he copied. Telling Maspero in the eve-
ning, he said he had found it in the morning.

In the evening we all went to Shnoodeh’s dinner with the Consul
and Consuless and their guest M. Rhoné, Baudry’s wife’s brother, a
cousin of the Rhoné you know. The Wekeel from Keneh, who has
held his place under successive Mudeers, a new one each year, and
who is here to settle the French House business with the Consul,
Masperodirecting both sides apparently, was there too. Kursheedt
and Shnoodeh made thirteen, so Bourgoin went over to the Hotel
and left us only with the number of the good apostles. Mme. Maspero
was bright; it seemed to revive her spirits; she needs women to talk
to. The platter on which the whole lamb was served was so large as

284

