[CHAPTER TWO

Friday We breakfasted at ten and then crossed the river
December 30, 1881 and rode a mile or so to Denderah. The grand
temple, over the bad copies from which Ihave

spent so many hours and days, is yet half drowned in the debris of
the old town and one of the things to be done, when there is money, is
to build a wall around the outside to hold back the invading rubbish.

The great hall, into which you ﬁrst enter, with its eighteen mighty
columns and hundred and forty-ﬁve bas-reliefs and its endless orna—
mentation and hieroglyphic texts, makes an astounding impression.
These hundred vast faces of Hathor, wretchedly as the debased
Christian has mutilated them, have still the feeling of serenity and
strength which marks Egyptian sculpture of every age. No wonder
that the depraved wrigglers who prostituted this sublime temple to
their unclean ends, resented the mighty calm of the superior faith.
First sending a man to burn incense in the closer rooms, for the bats
have continued the traditions of the monks and the odor of their
sanctity, we followed in procession through the halls and chambers
which you will ﬁnd described in memory after the very faulty folio of
Mariette.1 There are about two thousand has-reliefs inside and out-
side the temple. Of these less than one-ﬁfth has been published and if
the selection had been made by a blind man it would have been better
than it is. So that to understand what is printed one must know what
is not. A year of labor would not be too much to read and record the
sacred words here sculptured and then one would be in a position to
say something about what a temple is and what its parts are for. You
will see from the plan that the church, with its choir and chapels be-
side and behind it, is taken directly from the temple. It was a great
pleasure to me to go from room to room, to see how you go through
Y of the plan, the Water Room into X the Sistrum Room, and how
you go through A, the Fire Room into B, the Room of the Seat of the
Sun, and how in E are still four Barques, pictures of the four real
barques of precious woods and metals and stones in which the statues
of the gods rode in the processions on the shoulders of the priests, to
see on the walls of the staircases how the processions mounted and
descended, and how from the roof there was still a stairway to the
still higher wall, which is broad enough for a procession to go about it

I. A. Mariette. “Denderah—Description générale du grand temple de cette ville." Paris. Folios I 870-1 874;
Text 1875. A new edition of the “Temple of Denderah" is in preparation by E. Chassinat.

102

