[CHAPTER THREE

ten—forty—ﬁve which means that there is yet an hour and a quarter
before the setting sun shall begin a new day. This Arab way of begin-
ning the day is really handier than ours; it was till lately the way of
Italy and reaches back to the Genesis of the Jews who, were they ever
here, might have taken it from the Egyptians, for in hieroglyphics
the end of the night is the middle of the day.

DENDERAH We reached Keneh in time for me with Piehl to
Sunday ride the mile into the town, to post my letter, to
February 4, 1883 inquire after the late Moodeer, our Arabist enter-
tainer of last year, who is dead, and after Mus-
tapha Aga’s son, who had been degraded to be the mamoor of
Dishneh, to take coffee with the Temple-soldier, Aly Effendi, in his
neat little house and to get back to dinner. This morning while the
rest did Keneh, Piehl and Iwent to the birthplace of Isis across the
river and I spent the day in one of the Osiris rooms on the roof, with
the bees who love him so well, correcting Diimichen’sl copy of a long
inscription which gives under the form of a hymn to Osiris an account
of all the serapeums in all the nomes of Egypt where his relics were
preserved; it is as interesting from a geographic as it is from a reli-
gious point of view. M. and Mme. Maspero came over in the after-
noon, but without coming upstairs in the temple, went to visit the
sheikhs of the villages which are called Dendera. They were so well
entertained that they did not get back until near two hours after sun-
set. In these countries I like to get back before dark; the natives have
that habit. We cannot perceive that the natives are less friendly than
last year, and can see no reason for the English scare, except a guilty
conscience.

Cop'ros We steamed in the morning to Old Coptos and
rﬂonday looked over the bridge in vain for the name of
Felzruary 5, 1883 Old Eleventh Dynasty Entef, whose name Wil-
kinson found on one of its stones.‘-’ After the rest

had gone on I found a Greek inscription, which Wilkinson-Murray
does not say is in the bridge, but does say that Mr. Harris long ago

I. G. Dﬁmichen. “Geographische Inschriften altagyptischer Denkmaler.” vol. I. Leipzig. 1865. pl.

XCVI—C and pp. 38-40.
2. See Murray. "Egypt." 1881. p. 447 and XV. M. Flinders Pctrie. ”Koptos.” London. 1896. p. 10.

206

