DECEMBER 1880 TO APRIL 1881]

the name of the owner; all had been cut away to get the little portrait
which is joined to each. I saw many things which I had studied in
books and may now remember them in their places. I bought a little
sandal made for the mummy of some baby of ﬁve or six. I hope the
loss of it will not hurt the little foot in its celestial walks. A very ﬁne
old German gentleman, Mr. Jagor, who knows Lepsiusl and every—
body of note in Berlin, set out with us, but in landing on the Island,
slipped from the arms of the black Arab who was carrying him on
shore and had to come back to dry his rheumatic legs. On the other
side of the Island we now ford the river on the donkeys; it is long and
tedious. Miss Wiedemann is a sweet girl; she has taken lessons here
of the Postmaster and speaks Arabic very well so as to do the talking
for the family. They go down to-day to Cairo. The young man, who
perhaps has copied more in the European museums than anybody
else, has not been able to work here very much. He is very industri—
ous and a gentle, pleasant fellow, a scholar of Ebers.

Thursday Mr. and Mrs. Young came down and stopped over night
and we went over in the evening to Karnak as we had done a month
ago ......

Sunday Elsen arrived and he is yet here. I dined with him last
night. Mustapha Aga who is the British and Belgian Consul, his son
Ahmed who speaks English well, and three Scotchmen whom we had
seen on their dahabeeyeh at Philae were of the party which was a
pleasant one.

I have had a good visit with our Consul, returned him the ﬂag
Hart borrowed for my voyage and gave him my letter from Consul
F arman. He was praying when I arrived, and had one eye bandaged.
He showed me all he could, including Seward’s signature ten years
ago; he exhausted his store of English and I mine of Arabic and then
he took me to see the New Hotel which a Syrian is building on the
Northern edge of the town near his ofﬁce. The central part was done
last year. It is of burned brick, a costly anomaly here, for burned
bricks are worth $1.00 to $1.25 a thousand while unburned bricks
may be had for ﬁfteen to twenty cents a thousand. There will be forty
odd rooms all looking on the Nile and the wonderful mountain be-

 

1. Richard Lepsius. German Egyptologist (1810—1884). See Georg Ebers. ”Richard Lepsius. a Biography."
translated by 20% Dana Underhill. New York. 1887.

47

I II I v {1ng 1 1|. I I H I1 I I

