NOVEMBER 1888 TO JULY 1889]

March 29, 1889 We came early upon more than twenty boats

aground and joined them for an hour. I read that
Mrs. Clymer was President of Sorosis and VVhitelaw (formerly
Jake W.) Reid, Minister to France. He will have a chance to spend
some of D. O. Mill’s money, and to learn that:

“If you go to France you ought to know the lingo,
For if you don’t, you'll rue it, by jingo.”

or words to that effect. Still he will be quite well off as Morton and
perhaps it will lead him to the Vice Presidency. We hear that the
Sultana, which left a week before us, is now about a day ahead.

March 30, 1889 Stranded again in the morning near Ayat. Then

we sailed with a west wind, too strong, to a
westerly bend of the river. Then after three or four hours I made the
Rais do, what he said was impossible, track down the river. Every-
body wanted to make me fail; so I had to take the whole team ashore
and start them myself. We made a mile by it and then the channel
crossed the river and we had to wait till the wind fell. “We had word
this morning that the Sultana was aground above Bedresheyn. At
night we went on to Tebeyn.

March 31, 1889 By seven thirty we had come to the forest above

Bedresheyn. Some thirty vessels encumbered the
Channel and as many more were lying around loose. As they occu-
pied all the deeper water, it took us three hours to push our way
through them, putting out anchors many times and using the
stranded boats for anchors many more, the current all the while try-
ing to carry us into the shallows. Tanyos, our Rais two years ago,
appeared smiling as two baskets of chips. He asked much after the
present and the absent Mansoor and Neseebak and Bintak el
Kebeerl. He had a small freight boat through, and was helping his
friend now to get through. He told me that the boats occupying the
Channel, the river had constantly to ﬁnd another, which being ﬁlled
with boats at once, gave no time for the formation of a good permanent
way. If only there were a Captain who would let but one boat

 

1. Victor. M r. Blashﬁeld (your relative). and Mrs. Blashﬁeld. This last is called by the Arab: "Your great
daughter."

S3I

