NOVEMBER 1885 TO MAY 1886]

sixty or seventy were studying it in all. John Giﬁ'en, who seems to
have taken Dr. Hogg’s place, gave Morel maps and reports and sta-
tistics which will enable him to fill some pages of his report ......

The great discovery by Mr. Groﬁ‘l about Jacob-El and Joseph-El is
probably new to him. De Rougé printed something about it twenty-
ﬁve years ago and Mariette ten years ago, but they knew it did not
mean what Mr. Groﬂ' thinks it means. . . . . . Thank you for the
paragraph about Edison’s ear-drum; I may be ready for it by the
time it is perfected. My cure this winter has come to grief from the
evaporation of the “vapours.” When I was ready to use the bottle
there was nothing in it. I wrote down to Cairo for it, but got none.
However I cannot perceive that I hear less well. .

Thursday We steamed away from Sioot with the first light
March 18, 1886 and were enjoying the mountain of Aboo Foda,
which commands attention even coming down,
when at ten o’clock we glided upon a level bank and have rested there
till now the lamp is lighted. We have read and written all day and are
ready to go on. But the bank is all around us. However, we can take
the train any morning and go to Cairo. We are a few miles below
Manfaloot.

Friday After much vain endeavor one small boat took
March 19, 1886 eight tons of our twenty of coal down over the
shoal place and another took on board ﬁfteen or
twenty tons of stones, goollehs, sheep and mummies and then we
went scraping over, having been lightened about four inches as near
as the Reis Mohammed and I can calculate. We soon landed on an-
other sandbank just south of Tell el Amarna. I read a part of Du-
michen’s copy of the monster grave of the priest Petamunoph.2

1. William N. Groﬂ', American Egyptologist (1857—1901). see “Notice biographique." by Florence Groﬂ in
“(Euvres égyptologiques de William N. Groﬂ’." Paris. 1908. His paper “Les noms de Jacob et de Joseph
en égyptien. Lettre a M. Revillout” is published in “Revue Egyptologique." Paris. vol. IV. 1885.
pp. 95-101.

2. Tomb of Pedamenapet. no. 33. of Porter-Moss "Topographical Bibliography," vol. 1. Oxford. 1927, pp.
66-67. Size of grave due to his unusual dimensions. The tomb is inaccessible to-day. See J. Dﬁmichen.
“Der Grabpalast des Patuamenap." Abth I. Leipzig. 1884.

381

