NOVEMBER 1890 TO MAY 1891]

Amenophis III, the top broken OH; I made up most of it from the
fragments. Near by are two ram headed sphinxes, rough-hewn, show-
ing that the great rows of them in Karnak came thence.

Marc}; 2, 1891 Lottie’s birthday. We found at Edfoo that the old
guardian of the temple had received notice of re-

tirement after twenty-four years of service. A good man who, though

feeble, does his work well. So he is a reproach to his superiors.

AJarclz 3, 1891 The north wind stopped us at El Kab where in the
old Fort we found some stones uncovered which I
had not seen before.

Alan]: 4, 1891 We tied up at Esneh last night, but went on this

morning. Dora has a swelling in the ear which makes
us anxious to get to Luxor. Afternoon I went on board the [star and
the S even Hat/20m reached Luxor in the evening.

Adam/z 5, 1891 Professor Sayce and I went to Taood. I looked over
the remains carefully and compute that there are
ﬁfty or sixty bas-reliefs remaining of the temple, with some very
interesting texts, the more important since the Erment temple has
been destroyed. The two had the same head Gods, and that phase of
the religion does not appear elsewherel. The sill of the door of the
Sheikh’s tomb northwest of the town is a fathom of a small obelisk; I
had noted it before but this time I made out that it bore the name of
Usertsen; there were three of them in the Twelfth Dynasty.

CAIRO I have let my journal collapse disreputably. I ex-
]Way 4, 1891 pected to be in Paris before you were eighty-seven,
but here we are. Fifteen days ago Dora broke out with

chicken-pox and last night Linnie. So our sailing, ﬁxed for the
twenty-sixth, was postponed to the tenth and now is put off again.
Linnie’s symptoms were severely like a bad fever and we were much

1. G. Legrain. “Notes sur le dieu Mentou." XIV. “Antiquités provenant dc Toad. in “Bulletin de l'Institut
francais d'Archéologic orientale.” vol. XII. 1915-1916, p. 105. Toad is now excavated by French
Egyptologists.

59I

