OCTOBER 1881 T0 APRIL 1882]

and not be the gossip of the village. I went to see Mme. Pagnon,1 who
had gone to Cairo, but Mme. Auber was there, fat and smiling and
there were Mme. Wiedemann and her children who took me to see
their Christmas tree. Alfred looks better and they had just exchanged
New Year Greetings with Judge Hagens by telegraph. Then I went
Consulward and met Khaled on the way, who told me with glee how
he had sold the mummy case he had showed me for ten pounds to a
Frenchman, and with sorrow how for six months he had waited to get
justice at Keneh and thought he must go to Cairo and see Effendina.
His eldest brother by another mother, ﬁve years ago had sold the land
their father left, and the purchaser held it, though he and his mother
and two sisters and one young brother had equal rights to it. Then he
wanted to take me to Koos to see a temple with a lot of hieroglyphs,
an hour towards Coptos. Our Consul, Aly Moorad was very glad to
see me. We talked about the people we knew, and he insisted I must
come, and all on the steamer, to the fantaiseeyeh he was to give to-
night. He has built a new hall for it,'from which you may toss a peb-
ble into the Nile. Guy Lussac of the Daira Sanieh came to dinner, so
that Maspero and his folks could not go, but I left and went and
found mostly the same dancers as last winter and some nice American
people who had come up in the Zingam. They had never seen the
dance before and the ladies were amazed at the freaks of gymnastics
which it displayed. Old Bembah was there looking more like an
Egyptian statue than ever.

Monday In the morning I went about and saw more people

yanuary 2, 1882 and some stones and read the English papers at

Mme. Pagnon’s and told Mme. Auber about her

new antiquities and had a visit from Mustapha the British and Aly
Moorad the American Consul and from Alfred Wiedemann.

Then Guy Lussac breakfasted with us, on deck to-day as yesterday
and he went away in his steamer to Erment and the Fostat dahabee.
yeh with Mme. M ..... and her husband and assistant, popping their
little guns at nothing, were towed away and we all went to Karnak
donkeying, I on Abd-el-Megeed’s white donkey with Mehemet who
told me all about his folks and the prospects of his eldest brother’s

 

x. M. Pagnon was the proprietor of the Louxor Hotel.

105

