NOVEMBER 1888 TO JULY 1889]

nants of the old temple. To Aly Moorad’s fantaiseeyeh in the eve-
ning. Previous to which Grébaut called at seven, as if for dinner,
which he took. He ﬁnds the Government here quite untrustworthy,
decisions constantly changing. The tourists’ guineas, near a thou-
sand, were to be devoted to the preservation of the antiquities of
Upper Egypt. The Committee which supervises him, decided to take
one third of them towards moving the Museum. He remonstrated
with Vincent who promised it should not be done. Now he hears it is
to be. But he is digging away. He said the ﬁxtures of the Geezeh
palace, worth perhaps twenty pounds had been torn out and sold
for perhaps two, but so injuring the building that it might cost two
hundred pounds to repair the damage. Miss Tibbetts of Providence,
who was in Compton in 1882, was at the fantaiseeyeh on her return
from Japan.

Marc}: 5, 1889 Abd-er-Rasool has been to Wadi Halfa by donkey

from Assuan and back looking for good places to
dig. He told me that near Debood there came to the river many
camels for water, enough to supply a small army of dervishes. But
he thinks they will come no further than Assuan. Speaking of
Sayce’s snake-bite, he whipped out a sharp knife from a sheath tied
on his left upper arm and pinching up the ﬂesh from the calf of his leg
showed how quickly he disposed of such a thing. And two white
scars an inch long showed that he had done it more than once. The
Sioot missionaries were up and we dined with the Newmans. There I
bought of Mohanmed Mohassib the best scarab I have seen this year,
a ﬁne porphyry if not something ﬁner, inscribed “Governor of the
Nome and Mayor of the Town (Thebes) Rekh-ma-ra.” This man
made the ﬁnest tomb in Thebes‘, after the royal tombs, the only
tomb that has had a door until this winter. Khaled told me he had
bought in Mensheeyeh of Botros a snake for a thousand francs and it
was on Grébaut’s steamer. So I found time to call on them to-day
and found it a huge basalt python well sculptured, coiled and head
erect ready to strike. Following his coils with my steel tape, I found
him ﬁve and a quarter metres long, or ten cubits exactly. Two holes

 

1. C. C. Edgar. “A Thesaurus in the Museum of Cairo," in “Zeitschrift {Ur tigyptische Sprache." vol.
XL. 1902—3. pp. 140-141; see Letter of March 16. 1889.

S23

