NOVEMBER 1889 TO MARCH 1890]

Adrian, Ahmed er Raheem’s dahabeeyeh. They were here two years
ago on young Chester Arthur’s steamer when they went round the
world. I knew his father well, the leading Republican in his ward for
many years. So Icalled on them and they spent the evening with us.
The Maudslays came in to tea and I sent for Bouriant to see Alfred's .
Central American work.

Feoruary 28, 1890 I spent the morning with Eisenlohr and he

lunched with us. Revillout has found one of my
Demotic ostraca to contain on one side the testimony of a man be-
fore Khnum that another has not been committing adultery; on the
other side a woman testiﬁes in like manner. Calls occupied us till sun-
set when we started, passed Aly Moorad’s salute and bade good-bye
to Luxor. Ten o’clock found us aground at Qamoola, and a steamer
coming straight for us. It looked very big. I raised my barbaric
yawp louder than all the rest and the men gathered aft to make
fenders of themselves as is their custom. The steamer ﬁnally dis-
covered that we were not in the channel and not moving, but com-
ing down with the stream they could not quite get out of our way;
our batafore touched their stem. The dahabeeyeh they were towing
ran into them and I heard Dr. Worthington’s voice. I went on
board the steamer, which was Rostovitz’ Kamok. Luckily she
drew more water than we and grounded before she reached us.
The dahabeeyeh was Rostovitz’ Herodotus and carried the Duke
of Sutherland, whose valet and thirteen—year-old daughter were
sick with typhoid fever, she so sick that the Doctor hoped to get her
to Cairo alive. He would then come back by postal boat to the Berke-
leys. After two hours we left them, the steamer still aground.

March I, 1890 As we were drifting down the Kornak appeared and

promptly went on the sand; the Herodotus rowed on.
We kept on through the warm day stopping not until opposite Keneh
whence Ned and I went to the town at sunset to see Girgis’ anteekeh.
We found nothing that we wanted and went back with nothing but
goollehs and dates and oranges.

559

