[CHAPTER FOUR

LUXOR The postal boat is in with the birthday letters.
March 21, I884 ..... About spending these birthdays to-
gether, can you say if you would like to do it in

Egypt next year? I am strongly tempted to buy the dahabeeyeh and
set up housekeeping. This last ten days has been very cool, almost too
cool even and we wear all our winter clothing ...... It is very
comfortable here in Egypt, Victor, and if you were here you could
help me a good deal with my work. I have not done much having to
take care ﬁrst ofmy ankle and then ofmy eyes. For I am not going to
bring an ophthalmia home this time, if I can help it ......
We dined out yesterday at the house of the German Consul, who
being an invalid his son Moharreb, speaks English and German
and French without having ever been to Cairo, much less to Europe.
He it is who, Tanyos told me, is married to a ginn, as I wrote you.
We did not have a dance after dinner. I have seen no trace of leap
year here; the Mohammedans have no such nonsense in their calen-
dar or customs. I looked for something that could be made into a
costume from the silks of Negadeh,l but they are too coarse,all that I
have seen. Don’t be puffed up Zoe, when they praise your French; it
don’t mean anything; people even praise mine. It’s only politeness
and ordinary at that; irony would be more ﬂattering for we are
ironical only about those whom we think of importance ......

The news of the last battle which you will have heard about more
than we, but which is in the Egyptian Gazette: I send, shows that the
Mahdi’s men armed only with spears did what Napoleon could not at
Waterloo; they broke a square of Scotch troops, the Black Watch,
the crack regiment of the British army and captured half the British
artillery. They were beaten afterwards, but on the whole did much
better than we at Bunker Hill, for two days afterwards they were in
possession of the battleﬁeld. True, many were killed, but Africa can
furnish millions as brave and as full of faith. The British started for
Sinkat but after the result of the battle they retreated to Souakin
from whence they started. It was “a glorious victory” but a few such
will arouse and inspire all Africa and bring next summer upon
Egypt a black inundation. Their policy now is as it was eighteen
months ago; irritate, irritate.

 

1. The weavers of Negadeh work mostly to provide the Sudanese market with coloured scarves.

294

