[CHAPTER FIVE

go about, but it was not hard to imagine the old priests rubbing their
pious calves against these fair inscriptions now legible from the
sculptured stage. I came back into the lessening crowd of promenad—
ers which flows from the Ilisos under my balcony to the Way of the
Stadium, and, seeing a thick throng in the Square of the Suntagma,
went into it. While I was looking at the Athenians, an American voice
spoke; it was Mr. Eaton’s. He had been to the Holy Land and to
Smyrna and had just arrived; the parson had gone on to Florence.
He regretted that he had not visited the Egyptian oil regionl, now
that they have struck a seven hundred ﬁfty-barrel well. He tells me
that the depression in oil in America which I have been noticing in
the papers is due to large wells in southern Pennsylvania; it takes
away from Mr. Schoﬁeld’s properties at least a hundred thousand
dollars of their value. Strange that in nine months I should meet this
man in Bradford and Luxor and Athens, in three of the four quarters

of the globe.

Monday It rained in the night and this morning. This and
ﬂpril 19, 1886 my ﬁve hours on foot yesterday have set me back a
little but not much. The boats are dodging Brindisi,
where there is considerable cholera. I had thought to come by there
and Naples, but shall do what seems best when the time comes. If
half a porous plaster does not sufﬁce, I shall heroically try a whole
one.
I have taken my two lessons and the walks are dry. I have not yet
come to going out with a cane. In olden times every citizen was
obliged to carry one, most do now; I may have to come to it.

ATHENS I found I must be heroic and put on a whole one. In
Tuesday the afternoon I went up to the French School, a
ﬂpril 20, 1886 great ﬁne building with extensive and well—planted
grounds on the edge of the town towards Lyka—

bettos. M. Foucart,2 the Director, made me talk much of Maspero
and his winter’s ﬁnds; he thinks that the yearly change of director in

 

I. On the Red Sea coast.
2. Paul F oucart. French Hellenist and archaeologist born in 1836. who made the important excavations

at Eleusis.

396

