[CHAPTER TWO

Sunday I attended closely to my Dictionary and did one
February 5, 1882 hundred ﬁfty pages, the weather being comforta-
bly warm. Maspero worked a little on the text of
Unas’ pyramid, but the Pyramid of Koolah carried him away from it.
Slice 6 was taken out to the bottom and my oval showed no trace of a
couloir through it; the interest was strong as we approached the bot-
tom and everybody was on hand at sunset to see if there were not
some sign of a door. But there was really none, and

Monday they were obliged to begin on the central mass (1,
February 6, I882 throwing down a slice of it about eight feet wide.
The stones came down with a shock and the dust
ascended to heaven, helped up the pyramid by the north wind. As no—
body could roll away stones while this was going on, half the men
began work on the northeast side in the same way it was begun last
Wednesday on the northwest side. They found a stone with “Rifaud
1820” on it, which indicated that sixty years ago that Frenchman
had worked here.1 But he didn’t get in. At one time there seemed
to be a round hole on the northeast side but before night that hope
was lost.

I ﬁnished my Dictionary work and took a turn in the village, saw
big and little houses. Mustapha, a handsome young man, whose
grandfather was a great Captain and a Pascha and whose father
has two hundred feddans acres of land and a house in Cairo and
used to have many slaves (some twenty are left) took me to his
house and showed me everything but his wife and mother. A small
slave, or child of slaves, was lying on a sub-house-top, recovering
from the small-pox; the freshly healed spots mottled the black skin
curiously. A very old woman told me about the Circassian country
from which she came and the wonders of Stamboul. Then coming
through the village all the women came out to see the Howaga2 and
show their gold embroidery and ear and arm and nose rings. To-
morrow is a great feast day here and we improve the day by going
down to get our letters at Luxor.

I. J. J. Rifaud. French traveller. agent of Drovetti. Consul of France. author of “Tableau de l'Egypte. de la
Nubie et les Iieux en cir-voisins ou itinéraire a l'usage des voyageurs.” Paris. 1830. See J. M. Carré.
“Voyageurs et écrivains francais en Egypte." Cairo. 1932. vol. I, pp. 223—224.

2. Howaga—a Turkish word for shopkeeper or merchant, and given in Egypt to the Europeans.

128

