[CHAPTER THREE

result is that much of the generalization is false, and the latest books
even are all wrong. At noon we were off, but it is night and we still
see the tombs. Less than a mile down we glided gently but ﬁrmly up-
on a sand shoal and for six hours there has been continual struggle.
At sunset half an hour ago two boat loads of villagers came to help
us and all are tugging loudly; indeed the magic of the voice seems to
be their main reliance to charm away the sandy Set and restore the
deep Osiris water.

UNADORNED The cries were stilled with the darkness but began
CHRISTIANITY again with the dawn and at seven in the morning we
W ednesday were free again after nineteen hours on that sand
ﬂpril 4, 1883 bank. We proceeded comfortably in a lovely day to
Minieh which, now separated from the Nile by one-
third of a mile of sand, is perhaps the prettiest town of its size in
Egypt. The English dahabeeyehs had just come up there and were
taking down their long yards to descend; they had passed the least
interesting part of the river and will now repass it. I forgot to note
that yesterday another English dahabeeyeh stopped going up at
Beni-Hassan, a little after us, and we saw them till night from our
sandbank which afforded a steady base for my little telescope.
Then we came to the famous Convent and the traditional un-
adorned Christian swam off and perched himself in our boat to re-
ceive the alms of his co-religionists; he swam away with his mouth
so stuffed with copper that it is a wonder he'did not sink. To ﬁll it
fuller would be a good act at slight expense, as the copper coin of
Egypt weighs seven times as much as the French of the same value.
I have been going carefully over Maspero’s books, noting what he
has that I have not and so keeping busy in the dull parts of the river.
We reach Bibeh at dark and tie up beside Guy Lussac’s boat. He

has a migraine and does not come on board.

MARKET DAY I went through the town to the station to post my
AT BIBEH letter. Not many white folks here, and as you pass,
Thursday the women sometimes run into the houses. But they
A’pri/5, 1883 generally answer a question very politely and show
the way with care. It is market day and all sorts of

wares were displayed ...... They had Syrian dourra, like our

24.8

