[CHAPTER TWO

Belgium and fears for that of Britain. M. Maspero has refused to see
him; the servant by whom the message was sent, more polite than a
European, said that M. Maspero was too ill to see him, as Ahmed
told me. My Abd—er-Rasool has nothing; it is his brother Mohammed
who surrendered the tomb and got ﬁve hundred pounds and the Reis-
ship.

At sunset I took a walk with Mr. Barnard. . . . . He feels very
uncertain about the future of Egypt. It is the newspaper man’s wish
to have something to telegraph, I think, which causes this.

When I came before everything seemed so strange; this time every-
thing seems so natural.

Then I strained my eyes over men and costumes; now only over
hieroglyphics. The thermometer in my room is 76°; the light out of
doors, strong.

CAIRO You are all wrong in supposing I can get no let-
Sunday ters while on the boat. If sent to “M. Maspero,
Noveméer 6, I881 Musée de Boulak, Caire” they will be forwarded
with his, and we expect to get them quite regu-
larly. Send them and the A'm. Register directly to him and put “for
Mr. Wilbour” in the corner. They begin the addition to the Musée
this week and the poor mummies are sadly huddled. Saw Emil
Brugsch to-day and he told me what a time he had getting them out
last July; he too, looks thin. Tell Mr. Fuller I expect to see him in
about two months, for a week in Egypt, but that he cannot hope to
rival the young American on the steamer who asked Mr. Faber if he
thought he could do Cairo in one day—that boy has gone to Jerusa-
lem already. We have very nice ﬁgs here and I eat a dozen a day;
they make a better poultice than dried ones. Mr. Barnard tells me
that Mr. Cox left here about four weeks ago ......

I have bought the stele of a little three-year old Roman boy, C.
Julius Valerius who died at three. It has a Latin inscription and Egyp-
tian gods and form generally; a strange mixture, which I do not re-
member to have seen elsewhere. Said has brought many Bedaween
to me with interesting things, all of which I have copied and a few of
which I have bought. To-day I saw his little wife Gameeleh and her
two-year old baby, Emfeezeh, who didn’t like my look, and they have

74

w ‘5' 1. ~ gj *- r x; y w :er l» l l

