[CHAPTERSEVEN

news that the anteekeh of eight dealers in Luxor had been put under
seal by the police. It seems that Grébaut is carrying out the policy he
exposed to me in Cairo of seizing an teekeh wherever he can ﬁnd them
as Mariette did.1

j’anuczry 10 Frénay arrived in the night and we had a pleasant

visit with him. He and his helper M. Thomas dined
with us and as the breast-pin I had asked him to order for Lottie,
would be ready only after a week, he gave me one he had as a
sample instead. A brother of Mohammed and Sheikh Alee Ledeed
took me to the diggings and I was offered for sale anything belonging
to the Museum there. Khaleel was away at Cairo and his absence
was supposed to be connected with these seizures.

yanuary 11 We reached Mensheeyeh and there found that Hanna’s

three or four Greek stones had been taken to Soohag
also. His school is doing badly, the old Coptic priest being afraid of
the perversion of the Protestant school—master. I got a headless
woman in miniature, marble, and the eyes of a Jupiter and the

12th we came to Girgeh and saw the much reduced Abd-el-Noor,

whose brother, just out of the Jesuit School in Cairo, he pro-
posed for Dora. The inundation has quite destroyed his gardens and
I found he had no further anteekeh. So we pushed on to Meshaykh in
the morning of the

13th and the Omdeh, the young Ahmed conducted us to the temple

and the tombs. We saw nothing I had not seen before, but
there was anteekeh for sale and I got two capital pieces, one the
bronze top of a hawk’s head, inlaid with gold, which may have
capped a wooden scepter, and the other an artist’s model, a thin piece
of ﬁne limestone with a face and a double crowned hawk on one side
and a four-feathered crown of Anhoor on the other, doubtless the
model used in the decoration of the temple here, which was dedicated
to Anhoor, the nome God of this Eighth Nome. I know of two other

 

I. E. Wallis Budge. “By Nile and Tigris." London. 1920. vol. I. pp. 112-113. describes the beginning of the
new policy.

456

