NOVEMBER 1888 TO JULY 1889]

from him while he was gone to Mecca, and not by 121': relations. I had
not said they were, but Aly had told me that in the morning. Mo-
hammed took with him on the Pilgrimage his mother and sister, the
wife of Abd el Megeed. Abdallah came up smiling; Abd el Megeed
had just paid twenty pounds for him. George showed me his pretty
new wife and Mme. Auber seems much broken down. Crete has been
here a fortnight with a doctor, but has not yet been on a donkey.
Ahmed now British Consul has ﬁnished his house and has his step-
mother and her boys with him; they have turned pious. The Time:
has been crying “Dervishes” so much as to frighten people. The
Ramses brought but twenty-one and the Prince dbba: has started
with ﬁfteen. But the great news from France is the bursting of the
Panama bubble. I supposed it would bring on panic and change of
Government and yet the French people have not winced, but have
eagerly taken the Russian loan.

December 21, 1888 The painters having left Luxor day before yes-

terday I had to see to mixing the paint, which I
did with the sanction of Mr. & Mrs. Newman who breakfasted with
me. The paint went on like a poem, Soroor developing much talent
there in regard. Insinger has dressed a big calf and I took a quarter
of its hundred and ten pounds at ﬁve cents a pound. People are
poorer than ever before. Most of the calf and of a lamb from Keneh
I gave the sailors.

I forgot to say that returning through the town Qooft I copied
stones built into the houses, with the names of Caesar Germanicus,
Nectanebo, Evergetes II, Nero and one or two other cartouches
which I have not yet made out. There are many more in the house
walls and everywhere heaps of stones with hieroglyphics.

December 22, 1886’ Yesterday’s success encouraged us to paint the

back stairs and the balcony. I saw Murch’s col-
lection which has many good things. Mrs. Donne, wife of the Colonel
of a black regiment at the attack on the siege works at Suakim, has a
telegram: “Complete success, everything captured, four hundred
rebels killed, coming straight back and to Assuan.” It is the old

495

