NOVEMBER 1890 TO MAY 1891]

hammered except two strips about two feet wide which having been
exposed to a fall of dust are so faded that the marauders did not
think them worth destroying. The little but quite perfect tomb of
Mr. F ight-strong‘, Khera-nekht, of which I once copied one side, has
shared the same fate. We copied a large part of Thoth-nekht’s tomb,
too much ruined by the fall of its roof to invite modern depredation.

A guardian, No. 31, assured us that he left the place only to get his
food.

7anuary 22, 1891 At Haggi Kandeel there was nothing of impor-

tance to sell. Two guardians, Nos. 32 and 33, as-
sured us that they had but one key and we were offered large slices
of tombs in their presence. 80 there is freedom to cut up all the tombs
but one and perfect freedom to sell the pieces. Old Hillalleyeh was
sorry they had nothing to sell; she is not in the tomb-cutting
business.

23rd I climbed a high hill at Aboo Foda while the Professor walked

far up the Wady. The view was magniﬁcent over the island
the west branch, the railway, the Ibraheemeeyeh Canal and the
boats sailing on it, the broad miles of green beyond to the desert with
its deyr: and the western mountain horizon.

yanuary 24, 1891 We reached Assioot in the afternoon, and found
more mail and Mother’s New Year’s letter telling
of a new cousin.

fanuary 25, I891 Mr. Wright’s little Evelyn showed me her many

Christmas and New Year’s cards with much
pride and he sent an Arab who repaired my plumbing well. The sail
and awning of the felucca reached us here. Professor Lansing whose
nerves have broken down so that he trembles, is in a little daha-
beeyeh with his brother, D. Lansing. They are going, on their return
from Assuan, to the Oasis of El Khargeh. Both are sons of Dr. Lan-
sing, now so feeble that he did not return from America. Dr. Worth-
ington and the Alma left four days ago, the Berkeleys eight. I got a

 

1. A. H. Sayce. “Gleanings from the land of Egypt." § III. The Tomb of . . . at Bersheh, in “Recueil dc
Travaux." vol. XIII. 1890. pp. 187-191. and note by G. Maspero, pp. 191—194.

583

