[CHAPTER THREE

How NOT To BE At a fantaiseeyeh at Aly Moorad’s last evening I
A SOLDIER saw Mr. and Mrs. King and Governor and Mrs.
Tuesday Smyth of N. H., all elderly people, to me even,
February 20, 1883 and quite intelligent. They are up with four
others in a very little Cook boat. Smyth can’t
give much time to Luxor; he has to go over to the Jordan which he
didn’t see when he was in Jerusalem four years ago and he will be
home in April. He and I made a letter to Comans for Aly’s brothers
and sister’s son and his own son-in-law, Osman, who is wanted for a
soldier by the Khédive. Aly wants permission to employ him as a
servant which would save him from soldiering. A big Cook boat came
up with three men and twelve women, they say. I copied some stones
about in houses, Thirteenth Dynasty, mostly.

Wednesday I went over to Karnak this morning. Found a
February 21, 188 3 brick with the name of my Isis em Kheb1 and her
husband the High Priest of Ammon who man-

aged Egypt for some years. It came from a wall a few rods east of the
southeast corner of the Ammon Temple enclosure. Near a temple just
east of there a hare-lipped boy picked up for me a bit of a statue of a
pastophore, white and with the name of “Mentu, Lord of Taood,” a
temple—place half a dozen miles south, which we saw two years ago.
Then the temple was to be dug out at once, but funds are lacking,
thanks to English Colvin. I copied the visible inscriptions on a group
of little houses south of the Sacred Lake of Amon. Their use has been
unknown, but it appears that they were the storehouses2 in which the
provisions were kept. I have three or four inscriptions which show
this. Mariette supposed they were houses for priests to live in. There
has been much speculation about them. It is odd that nobody has
read the solution before. I ought to say that the pastophore statues
known (priests’ statues holding an image of Osiris in a naos) are
nearly all of the black basalt and of the High Priests of Neith at Sais.

Here we have a change of place and god and color.

It is very balmy. I write on the deck, the mountains before me.
Across the river are the returning Cookeeyeh. They have ﬁnished the

 

I. For such bricks see H. Gauthier, “Le Livre des Rois d'Egypte,” vol. III. Cairo. 1914. p. 266. No. 2.
2. Store-House (P) ruined (R of Lepsius and Mariette). see Porter-Moss. “Topographical Bibliography.”
vol. II. 1929, pp. 71-73.

220

