[CHAPTERPIVE

Friday I went out pretty well straitened with my sciatica.
ﬂpril 16, 1886 When I had done “Diogenes’ Lantern” as every-
body calls it here, which is not far, I concluded that
the hobbling hurt too badly and came back, getting the ﬁrst book of
Xenophon’s dnabasis in New Greek, I have here a copy of the
Old, and a “Monuments of Athens” by Kastromenos, brother of
Mrs. Schliemann, with an English translation by Agnes Smith who
has written a big book about Greece. I compared some papers and
before night had two readers, one an old German woman born here
and educated in the school of the American Hills, and the other a
Cretan who has tried teaching in England and France and coughed
herself back here, though she is fat enough now. I want to hear and
repeat after one of them in the morning and the other in the after-
noon, two hours each, till I get my old Greek pronunciation out of
my mind and the new in. It is very bothersome; in many words
three quarters of the letters are pronounced differently and the ac-
cent is on another syllable. I could learn to pronounce the New
Greek much more easily had I never seen the Old, but of course it is
a vast advantage to recognize by sight most of the words.

I could not ﬁnd any oiled silk but I did see a “Me Too” picture in
which the boy had a “Porous Plaster” in the right sp0t for me. So I
got one, cut it in half and put a half on. Cyrus W. Field, Jr., in the
evening assured me that it was excellent, had done him a great deal
of good for rheumatism and malaria. As they were stuck on him by
Young Brandreth while he was visiting him at Sing Sing he wrote a
note after he got home telling Brandreth the excellent result, which
Brandreth wickedly published in far papers. Uncle Stephen wrote
him from Washington a letter of stern reproof. I was glad to hear
this endorsement of Egyptian Hassan Bey’s recommendation. . . . .

Saturday I took my morning and my after-dinner hours. The
April 17, 1886 Cretan is much more severe than the German. She
makes me give every sound truly, with no slurring

of unaccented vowels. I ﬁnd it rather hard to scrutinize the unaccus-
tomed letters so long and it takes spry wits when as often there are
seven old pronunciations to be dodged in a single word, to avoid
more than six of them. But I afterwards went to the Polytechnekon

394

