NOVEMBER 1887 TO MAY 1888]

Ned painted. At Denderah coming down I did but little. At Abydos
we found Gad, but his father blind old Seleeb, was buried the month
before. Eighty, they called him but he left a son two or three years
old by a wife forty, whom Lottie and Dora saw with the rest of the
women. At Mesheykh we were discussing whether a headless statue
with no hieroglyphics,l but only a very ornate dress was worth taking
away when an old man appeared, showed a paper from Grébaut and
claimed it. Grébaut seized all Abd-el-Noor’s anteekeh, even those
which were his half, digging on shares for Maspero. We had a pleas-
ant visit with Frénay at Ekhmeem; he is against Grébaut. Khaleel
had a ﬁne Greek tablet2 seized in Mensheeyeh, an Edict of the City in
Trajan’s time, elaborate and long, one of the few Museum pieces
Grébaut will have to show for his voyage. South winds and none
swept us from Luxor to Sioot in about ﬁve days’ running time; after
that we had cold, north weather. Still we managed to see the north
tombs of Amarna, ﬁnding a short way from Sheykh Said;3 and the
tombs of Sheykh Said, which I had not seen before, and the Colos-
sus on the sledge; and Speos Artemidos, new to me, in the six days to
Minieh“. Beside the Colossus tomb I found two known tombs and one
hitherto unmentioned of a certain Khar-nekht, “Battle-Strong.” I
copied one side of it, but the Sun-God forbade the other. Since Mi-
nieh we have loafed along, stopping where the north wind bade us,
until yesterday, 7 April, 1888, when we went over to see the housed
statue of Ramses 11,5 which the British took possession of and turned
over last year. Now you pay ten cents to see it and it is the sole
antiquity in Egypt there is a charge to see. But really you do not see
it, for what is it to look at a face two yards broad and three distant;
you see not a face, but a marble surface, which it seemed to me had
lost much of the polish it had last year. Another huge, but not so
huge, granite statue, also of Ramses II, has been hauled up on a little
elevation, as also the great Stele of Apries, which lay in the border of

1. “Extrait de l'inventaire du Musée de Boulaq. comprenant les objets entrés dans les collections du ler
janvier au 31 décembre 1888." in "Bulletin de l'institut Egyptien," vol. IX. 1888, pp. XX—XXI. no.
28431.

2. J. G. Milne. "Greek Inscriptions" (in Catalogue général du Musée du Caire) Oxford. 1905. pp. 29—30;

C. Maspero. "Guide to the Cairo Museum." Cairo, 1903. no. 740. p. 196—197.

. N. de G. Davies. “The Rock Tombs of Sheikh Said." London. 1901.

. Murray, "Egypt." 1880. p. 413.

5. Arthur H. Bagnold. ”Account of the Manner in which two Colossal statues of Rameses II at Memphis
were raised." in “Proceedings of the Society of Biblical Archaeology." vol. X. 1887-1888, pp. 452-463,
and plates.

#0)

465

