[CHAPTER TWO

texts. But I’ve preached enough. The view from the mountain over
the city and the green plain to the brown mountain in the east, was
lovely in the yellow light of the low sun behind me as I returned, and
I spent the evening on the Patterson’s dahabeeyeh and left them my
American Registers.

T aesday We, after yesterday’s red tape, got coal this morn-
March 28, I882 ing and have just passed the imminent rocks of
Aboo F ayda, a dozen miles of frowning mountain,
honey combed with grottoes natural and artiﬁcial. We watched them
closely to see if any had hieroglyphics and I wished I had one of
those transcendant glasses which we saw at the shop of Merz in
Munich seven years ago. Maspero has a very large glass, but it does
not look into things like those. He saw three or four inscribed tombs;
I felt quite sure of one. But the grottoes are a thousand. One great
church of the Monky time had a stairway hewn in the rock to mount
to it, and there were many which could have been reached only by a
rope from above. We saw indeed three or four men letting down one
into a grotto, what for we could not imagine unless to search for
young birds or birds’ eggs. At night in great fear of sand banks we
tied up a mile or two above our destination Haggi Kandeel.

Wednesday This we reached at seven and I went straight to the
March 29, 1882 town to look for stones, having had such luck be-
fore. I found, however, only some poor things.

Hillaleeyeh was making ﬂat doora cakes, but seemed glad to see me.
At nine-thirty when I came back to the boat Maspero and Bouriant
had gone to copy what Lepsius did not of the southernmost of the
south group of Tombs, that of Gen. Ai,l who, after making this ready,
became King, renounced Unitarianism, and made himself a King’s
tomb in the Western Valley of Biban-el—Moluk at Thebes. I rested
till after breakfast and then rode three miles south where were some
rock steles I had not seen. Little Rhoné went with me; his donkey not
being to his taste, he as usual, walked. In the village of Hawateh they
told me there were inscribed stones in the Katib’s (clerk’s) house. But
that I found to be his own good Arabic handwriting. When we came

 

1. General M: N. de G. Davies, "The Rock Tombs of El Amarna," vol. VI. London, 1908.
I 5 8

