DECEMBER I882 TO APRIL 1883]

make a diagram of the Mamooralz, a wooden boat two years old,
which the Jew owner wants to sell, as nearly as I can remember it.

DIVAN BATH _ PgTRY

. Em lXF lXL'

:

W ‘V
' f _ _—T>thN

DiVAN 6 5 4 3 I

 

 

‘__ﬁ

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

. Door opening on to sailor’s half of the boat, which is covered.
. Dragoman’s room.

. Two sin 1e rooms.

Main sa oon with extension table.

Two double rooms.

. One single room.

Second saloon or room for two.

. Outside sitting room, open aft, roofed over.

In each of these cabins is water laid on, supplied from a tank to
which it is pumped, on the upper deck. It is a rather large boat, but
the cost of running a large boat is very little over that of running a
small one and the difference in comfort is great. I am much tempted
to offer two thousand dollars for it, about half what it cost two years
ago. The man wants three thousand dollars. I think perhaps next
year it may be pleasant here on a dahabeeyah; this year one would
be quite alone. However Mr. and Mrs. Berkeley are here and going
up in their ten thousand dollar boat, which is much smaller than this
Mamoorah. It is so precious that they have never taken it over the
Cataract.

I have bought a gold armlet of Byzantine time, about thirteen or
fourteen hundred years old and some gold coins of the same period
which I think may be worn. The armlet is exactly pictured on a By-
zantine mummy in the Museum here. It is not so beautiful as it is
peculiar—so, too, are the coins. Thursday M. Maspero had suddenly
a telegram from Tunis that Mme. d’Estournelles was dead. He was
afraid to tell Mme. Maspero at once; for though they had had letters
that she was not well, nothing dangerous was feared. They told her
slowly by successive telegrams. I remember “Mme. la Baronne” as
Wm. Walter Phelps called her that night with strenuous American
accent, very pleasantly. Her kindly eyes must once have been really
beautiful. How the night comes! It has come almost to him to whom

183

