[CHAPTER FOUR

was there looking as when she left us eight years ago. Mrs. Chapman
told me that Helen Corles Pomeroy had just died.

FLORENCE Yesterday forenoon it was colder in Vienna and
Tuesday afternoon I came here. Found these children happy
April 29, 1884 and have been doing with them today the Acca—
demia, the Scalzi, the Palazzo Vecchio, and the
Bargello ...... Whether they stay out their Florence time here with
me, or I make the Siena trip with them, I shall stay here long enough
for you to send me here a copy of Cuming’s letter. It is overcoat
weather here though the sun has shone to-day ......

Wednesday We went sightseeing again to San Lorenzo and its
Apriljo, 1884 library where we read a little of the original MSS. of
Benvenuto Cellini’s autobiography, written in a
calligraphic hand with an ostentatious margin and to St. Marks
where I met Mr. De Forest who alone carried the Stars and Stripes on
the Nile last winter. Afternoon I took Schiaparelli to see Professor
Fisk who lives in a lordly villa at 2 Via Aretina outside the Santa
Croce gate. His Petrarch collection is wonderful and makes a very
fine display in gorgeous bindings. It began with his reading to his wife
on the Nile, Petrarch’s sonnets and they commenced the collection
when they saw them in Paris.

Thursday We went to Perugia. The cool clear air brought up
May I, 1884 Ned so that

Friday he made a sketch in the Sala del Cambio in the morn-
May 2, I884 ing. The town has suffered by the new route to Rome
opened since we saw it in I 875. But it is as beautiful as
ever and Perugino’s women walk the streets. I saw some of them lis-
tening to a Friar’s sermon in the Cathedral. We went to Spoleto
which was new to us all and very interesting. Lippi’s frescoes in the
Duomo furnished Ned material for another sketch; our Hotel up in
the town interested us much; so did Hannibal’s arch and the Viaduct
two hundred ninety feet high and the facade of San Pietro where I
found the Egyptian judgment scene but little Christianized.

320

