NOVEMBER 1889 TO MARCH 1890]

Thermometer 92° and the girls took to the water. We found Mr.
Frénay engaged with a friendly Abbé; Sayce and the Murches had
left the night before after a trip to the Wady of Sheikh Shahoon.

March 7, 1890 We went to see anteekeh at Sidrach’s, Hanna’s,

Sheikh Aly’s and next door where Michael and his
son Raphael, called the Soodaneeyeh because they have lived in the
Soodan, showed us a stone which may have been part of a sarcopha-
agus, from Tell el Amarna. It has fourteen cartouches and they were
anxious to know how much they should ask Grébaut for it. Its form
forbids the notion that it has been cut from a tomb. We saw what
interested us more, a Greek head with an unbroken nose, not of the
highest art, but still Greek and noble. Ned took some alabaster;
Linnie is gathering alabaster pieces for a toilet set and we came away
through the rain. Mr. Frénay dined with us, on his own vegetables, of
which he put a bushel on board, and told us how the Abbé Amélineau
tried to burgle the White Monastery and get its papyri and parch-
ments, after drugging the monks. Frénay afterwards bought most of
the library for the National Library. So we were interested to read
over the life of Shnoody who founded this monastery and who
worked all the miracles common to the head Christians.

March 8, 1890 At nine o’clock we had reached Soohag whither Mr.

Frénay came with six donkeys and we all rode in an
hour to Shnoody’ Deirl through a high wind. Lottie stood it well. The
Deir is huge, oblong, of hewn white limestone, and has a temple-like
cornice. We went in among its dirty Christians, admired its ﬁfteen
hundred year old Church and puzzled over the twelve-foot granite
slabs covered with disappearing hieroglyphics, in the pavement of
the Court. They took us in triumph to the well and we saw its sicken-
ing surroundings. Half an hour of Monacal life made us glad to get
out, to see the granite doorway on the north and the tombs to the
west and blow back again to the boat. Mr. F rénay lunched with us,
then saw his friends in Soohag and sailed back to Ekhmeem at
night in his own boat.

 

1. Murray. “Egypt." 1880. pp. 428-429.

561

