[CHAPTER THREE

MOERIS We are two in a large room, Burke and I and
Deceméer I4, 1882 there is a Mrs. Burke on board. I hope I shan’t
be Burked. Soeur Eugénie with a dozen of her

sisterhood go with us second class, an ancient sister opposite me on deck
here is cutting the leaves of Le Chemin de [4
Religion Chre’tienne with the big scissors which
hangs along with two small keys by a tape to her
waist. Some of them wear yellow shoes just like
those worn in Cairo except that these have strings.
When the wind, which is a strong Easter, blows
her black envelope away, the once white ﬂannel
skirt below, tells a hard story. Brédif, the French
Controllerin Egypt, is on board with a large party,
according to the list; I fear that he will ﬁnd his occupation gone.

 

Saturday We are in the harbor of Naples twelve hours be-

7 P. M. hind time on account of a three hours accident

Decemaer 16, 1882 in Marseilles harbor—and the storm. I took my

ﬁrst dinner and it amused me the ﬁrst part of

the ﬁrst night. Since then I have eaten horizontally till to-night

and now I am going to see how the shore feels. We shall perhaps not

reach Alexandria till Thursday. I will tell you about the voyage and
the people when I can safely.

[1 P. M. Have returned and my head does not turn so
much. I piloted about the streets the mother and

wife and little girl of the French Controller in Egypt, M. Brédif, who
despairing of his government calling him home, though his work
seems to be over, has sent for his family. The mother is an American
and fond of America, though she left it at fourteen; the wife has the
broad brain, and well ﬁlled, which I have seen mostly in Massachu-
setts women, and little Suzanne looks like Mme. Hagens. They seem
nice people and enough non-French to tolerate foreigners. The Cap-
tain has them on his right, then I, then a more than six foot Irishman,
then “W. J. Burke, Esq. late ofﬁcer of the 4th Hussars,” as his trunk
says, my late roommate (foreseeing the storm I got a room in the
centre), then his sister and then a young Englishman. The Burkes

I78

