[CHAPTER ONE

above, too high to be read without a ladder, as also are the ceilings
and the Zodiac which is published. Champollion has described ﬁfteen
of the twenty adoration scenes on the south side, the lower range was
then covered, and the north side has similar except a scene in which
Khnum and Horus are helping the King draw a net full of birds and
ﬁshes which are to be offered to the god, Thoth giving the signal for
the drawing. Lepsius gives this scene,1 I remember, and there is a
similar one at Thebes. The front of the Pronaos is walled rather
more than half way up between the pillars, as at Dendera and
Edfoo and the most interesting scenes are on these walls.

The little house of Khnum projects so as to make a place large
enough to keep a ram.

I would like very much to have copies of these texts and scenes
and also of the continuous texts on the pillars, nearly six hundred
lines well preserved, of which not a hundred have been published.

Turning to the rear we have the Ptolemaic facade framed in the
Roman construction.

Sunday while Elsen went to a lake and the desert to shoot, I
copied . . . . . texts, the most important for the meaning of the
temple. I can read most of them and they are multiform designations
of the Temple with all manner of synonyms for its great God Khnum
and his wife, the “Neith of the South,” Nebuu and their son Hi-Ka.

The 4-Khnum text in front speaks of:
Khnum ofElephantine, the living Soul of Ra (ﬁre)

“ Esneh, “ “ “ “ Shu (air)
“ “ Hypsele, “ “ “ “ Osiris (water)
“ “ Hir-ur, “ “ “ “ Seb (earth)

just as the Apis of Memphis was the living soul of Ptah, its great god,
and the Mnevis of On was the living soul of Ra.2 There were also
two other bulls whom I do not now remember, but I saw them in the
Hathor Temple of Deir-el Medinet, and Champollion gives them in
his “Pantheon.”3

I. Lepsius. “Denkmaler.” Part IV. pl. LXXXVllI-IX; the similar one is in the Granite Sanctuary at
Karnak; ibidcm pl. IV. 23.

2. See H. Brugsch. “Thesaurus Inscriptionum Aegyptiacarum.” Part IV. Leipzig. 1884. p. 626.

3. J. F. Champollion le Jeune. “Pantheon Egyptien." Paris. 1823. no. 37 et 38. Hapi. Mnevis. Onouphis
and Pacis (Bakis) were the four bulls. See Th. Hopfner. “Der Tierkult der Alten Aegypter." Vienna.
1913. pp. 72-89.

36

