NOVEMBER 1888 TO JULY 1889]

Noveméer 26, 1888 With the morning moon we came on to Menka-

bad. I had told the Reis to wake me when the
moon rose. When I asked him why he had not done so, he said he was
afraid lest I, roused from sleep, should think him a robber and shoot
him with the gun. I thought rather that he too was asleep and feared
to wake me when the moon was high. Nefady soon captured a don-
key and we took the path to Sioot. Much corn on land which had not
water enough to raise the usual crop of wheat afterwards. Crossing
the big canal the ferryman who had a rope stretched athwart the
stream, assured me that it was thirty spans (of ten inches), deep all
the way to Meir and he had been there. Aboo Shanab had suggested
we could go there in “Puff—puff” from Sioot. This canal is not on the
big map; Ismael made it and called it the Ibrahimeeyeh, after his big,
ﬁghting brother. In Sioot I found that it goes to El Kooseeyeh and
not at all to Meir.

At the post oﬂice 1n Sioot were letters and papers and Seleeb with
whom I went home to lunch. He has a clean, airy apartment looking
north over green meadows, and the food was not bad, for a good
appetite. His chief, Santoni, talks of resigning, being entitled to a
good pension after twenty-two years service, and Seleeb says he
would probably get the place, if he were not an Egyptian. And he
cited instances where Syrians, Armenians and Jews had been brought
in over the heads of Egyptians of at least equal capacity, not to
speak of experience. Talking about the effect of religions on charac-
ter, he agreed with me that the blood of Christians and Mohamme—
dans here must be about the same, but while he thought that
generally in Egypt Copts were better men than Moslems, in Sioot it
was the other way. He supped with me.

November 27, 1888 We moved the back stays six or eight feet aft so

as not to lift the middle of the boat so much, and
then brought back the top of the mast three feet, greatly against the
judgment of the Reis and crew. But it does not rake now more than
the Mermaid’: and she is dragging the steam launch and keeping up
with us. Soroor, who sings well with the aid of hasheesh, and is almost
as black, but not as shiny, as Moorgﬂaan painted the stair—irons yel-
low, the yellow of pure gold. Our stripe is orange in comparison, say
fourteen carat with copper alloy.

481

