OCTOBER 1881 T0 APRIL 1882]

Reis Mohammed who watches continually at the prow and gives
sign—direction to the steersman every minute we are in motion, in-
troduced me to Aymaam Aly who took me to the house of the lady
Hillalee’ya, where he turned over, with help, a stele forty inches high
by twenty-eight wide by six thick, weighing ﬁve hundred pounds or
so. I saw at once that was a unique stele; there are in European mu-
seums only two fragments of Steles of this King and nothing in Bou-
lak. After much palaver with her, I learned that her husband Aboos-
dee’ra who was present, but played the second part, dug this up, and
that my guide and a boy helped him carry it home twenty months
ago, and I made a contract to pay her a guinea for it, delivered to the
steamer. She stuck hard ﬁrst for two guineas and then for a guinea at
the house, but I ﬁnally prevailed by retreating towards the boat and
left Said to conduct, receive and pay for it, while we breakfasted.
Before we ﬁnished, a small army appeared with it slung beneath two
poles, and now it is the principal ornament of the steamerl. Meantime
Said began to pick up small things and I soon had a good museum
of this Haggi Kandil besides a miniature stele two and one-halfinches
high from Hermopolites, the nome of Thoth across the river, with an
inscription in hieratic, of the Scribe Nozem, whom we may transcribe
IVIr. Sweet. Then we went donkey—riding three miles away to the
three south tombs and found that they were hardly half published.
NI. Bouriant makes a specialty of this King and he will perhaps on
our return stop here and stay long enough to complete the work. I
drew plans of the two more important of the tombs. On our return
Aymaam Aly showed me a place only a few rods south of the western
Sheikh’s tomb on the southwest border of Haggi Kandil where, he
said the stone came from._I held a town meeting and the old men all
agreed that they had seen the stones of a temple there, but they were
all covered up now, as I saw—when we have a million for digging, we
will dig it out.

Thursday morning Said bought for twenty—two piastres the stone
of which I send you a paper-cast. It is a little has-relief of half the
Unitarian King’s head and the whole of the Queen’s and never was

1. Presented by Wilbour to the Cairo Museum in 1882. See G. Maspcro. "Guide to the Cairo Museum."
Cairo. 1910, no. 324. pp. I35—136; Jean Marie Carré. ”Voyageurs ct écrivains francais on Egypte.”
Cairo. I932. vol. II. pl. p. 60.

95

