[CHAPTER TEN

made Dean Butcher an Archdeacon. Lottie heard the investing ser-
mon and says it was a master-piece of presentation of the claims of
Anglicanism and of reticence as to the Professor’s personal belief. He
shows me passages in the Bible which read in the light of late cunei-
form discoveries, indicate that the God of the Hebrews grew out of
the God, whose image was adored in Jerusalem and that when
David left that town for another, he exchanged that God for the local
God of the new town. So you see his religion does not interfere with
his freedom of research. Judge Cookson, Sir Charles, is here and
tea-ed with us Sunday; he told the Professor to-day he had not passed
so pleasant an afternoon for six months. And he told me that the Pro-
fessor said I was the best Egyptologist living. So you see “Compli-
ments ﬂy when quality meets.” We are meeting a lot of pleasant
people here in the hotel and nobody seems in a hurry to leave. Today
I took in the provisions for the voyage, but I think we shall hardly
start before the Professor’s boat is ready. The Khedive is going up
on the fourth, with wife, daughters and one hundred eighty others.

RIKKAH This is my ﬁrst date in the New Year. We have
yanuary II, 1891 been very busy though we do not seem to have
done much. We made up our New Years cards

for Egypt at Shepheards and we put in the last at V‘Vasta yesterday.
We came on board the third and began to get the last things. The
south wind, which had been continuous for nearly a month continued
till the eighth. \Ve had some twenty folk at tea the ﬁfth and belated
ones the sixth. The seventh we pulled up to Gizeh, whither I had
ridden in the morning. Hervé Bazil, Maspero’s half brother, is in-
stalled there over the accounts in the room where we once saw the
wonderful bronze bedstead of Ismael. In the next, then occupied by
a favorite’s bed, is the ofﬁce of the Director. Bazil told me he had
never seen him in it. Grébaut has gone up to receive the Khedive at
Abydos. The day he went, the ﬁfth, a Council in his absence arranged
the terms on which permits are to be given to dig. He has now become
an underling in the Ministry of Public Works, whose present head,
Colonel Ross wrote out for me immediately after the Council the
regulations agreed upon. He and his wife come up the river in a small
steamer to inspect the irrigation and so we have called on them and

578

