[CHAPTER ONE

yet has her statue. Four or ﬁve other statues and steles of about the
same style probably came, as these men say, from this a family tomb.
Of these steles Professor Fiske has one, Mr. Webb of the Gazeile da-
habeeyeh one and Lane Fox Pitt Rivers, the President of the London
Ethnological Society just told me he had bought the largest. All I
think are sold. At the end of this west passage a sort of open doorway
into the real end where statues of Isis, Osiris and Horus confront you.
Making offering to them are Amenophis I on the right and black-
faced Aahmes Nefert-Ari on the left. Turning to the North you face
two statues god and goddess; I could recognize nothing more beside
whom on the left wall the Cow Hathor protruding from the sloping
mountain protects under her dewlap King Ramses II. To the right the
wall is broken. Turning South you face two similar statues similarly
broken. To the right next the goddess, on the wall Ramses II under
Cow Hathor as opposite, to the left ledi makes incense and libation to
the pair of statues. Out of this west passage a hole leads South and
West and South again some thirty yards by much crawling to a deep pit,
a square well sunk in the solid rock, now emptied of mummies; they
told me that twenty or thirty had been broken up and taken out.
And they conjured me never to tell, not even Mustapha, that they
had shown me the tomb; only they two and Abd-er-Rasool and I had
been in it. Back through the ﬁne but somewhat mutilated paintings
of the west passage into the ﬁrst hall, where turning right we see an-
other statue probably of Mrs. Ad. Next this to the South, King
Meneptah kneels before Turn in a naos. A little farther South we
come to the end. But what is here? A break in the southeast corner at
the top of the hall shows a sloping stone like the corner of a pyramid.
Akmed looks carefully at it and exclaims something—something like
“mudoom!” Then they talked together and then solemnly enjoined
secrecy as to that; they said that was a place as big as many tombs
but that it would take one hundred men thirty days to dig it out.
Then back through the ﬁrst hall past more holes to the East unin-
scribed and across a skin which showed that we were not the only
beings which had crawled there. Perhaps this had been placed there
as part of the mummery but it did not decrease my willingness to go
out, which I straightway did in snake style. I divided these men by
privately giving Mohammed twice as much bakhshish as I did

56

