 

 

 

FEBRUARY 1884 T0 MAY 1884]

art which he has been able to adorn his apartment with during the
last thirteen years. I hope some day to show it to you, for he made
me tell him all about his Egyptian things and is very anxious to
know more of Old Egypt. He has a Brugsch’s Dictionary and would
buy the Geographical Dictionary. And when a man has two hun-
dred dollars’ worth of Dictionaries, he must study. After an hour he
took me to the Palazzo Galitzin where a granite slab about two
yards square and a foot thick has been dug out. Schiaparelli had told
me about it and hoped I might be able to tell the temple of which it
was one stone. Luckily I was, although I have never seen the temple
and know it mainly from a description still in M85 which I found in
the Bibliothéque Nationale in Paris. It comes from the wonderful
granite temple of Isis,1 a few miles southwest of Mansoorah in the
Delta, which gave to the place the name of the Iseum in Greek and
Roman times. Then he took me to the House of Tranquilli behind
the Church Maris Sopra Minerva, and in front of the same when it
was the Temple of Isis. Here in 1856 were dug out the exquisite
sphinx of Thothmes III2 and the great black vase which Ptolemy
Philadelphus gave to Osiris, both now in Barracco’s parlors,2 a cow
Hathor and a sphinx bought for the Museum at Florence and a
coarse old granite sphynx now in the garden. We groped through the
dark house to see it. Last year the City which had as much street be-
hind the church as Tranquilli had garden, dug out from it the obe-
lisk3 which I told you I thought the fellow of that in the Boboli Gar-
dens (I am sure, now that I have seen it), a huge Roman column with
Egypto-Roman ﬁgures around it,4 a crocodile with the cartouche of
Amasisi’, which I recognized as coming from the temple of Neith at
Sais, and two of those dog-faced apes which are a form of Thoth.

1. G. Roeder. "Der Isistempel von Behbét" in “Zeitschrift filr ﬁgyptische Sprache.” vol. XLVI. 1909. pp.
62—73; C. C. Edgar and G. Roeder. "Der Isistempel von Behbet" (2 teil) in “Recueil de travaux.” vol.
XXXV. 1913. pp. 89—Ir6.

2. G. Barracco. “Lettere del Ch. sig. G. Barracco al segretario della commissione sullo sﬁnge scoperto
presso l'Iseo" in “Bullettino della Commissione archeologica comunale di Roma." vol. II. 1863. pp.
104—111.

3. R. Lanciani. E. Schiaparelli. G. Barracco and O. Marucchi. “L’lseum et Serapeum della Regione IX" in
"Bullettino della Commissione archeologica comunale di Roma." vol. XI. 1883. Appendice. pp. 130—131..
and pl. XIeXII.

4. Roman Column: 0. Marucchi. “I Monumenti egizi ed i Monumenti Cristiani recentemente sistemati nel
Museo Capitolino" in “Bullettino delle Commissione archeologica comunale di Roma." vol. XL. 1912.
pp. 13—14 and pl. 1-11.

5. The Crocodile is without inscriptions. the cartouche of Amasis is on a Sphinx. see “Iseum e Serapeum
della regione IX.” in “Bullettino delle Commissione archeologica comunale di Roma." vol. XI. 1883;
sﬁnge. pp. 1 12-129. and pl. V—VI. dog—faced apes. pp. 67—71 and pl. VI I-VIII; see also the paper quoted
in the previous note. p. 12. no. I 1. for a “ﬁgura di coccodrillo."

2S7

