NOVEMBER 1888 TO JULY 1889]

chairs were brought for us, and placed where we looked down upon
the singers. These are supposed to chant the Koran, but in fact most
of the time is taken up with songs many of them as religious as the
Song of Solomon. After a while the Sheikh came out and we took
coffee with him. One of the three or four friends with him, asked me
many questions about why Dora was not married, a grave problem
for all Moslems. After some time with the Sheikh we returned to our
chairs and listened to the singing and the Zikrl of the Dervishes till
nearly one A. M. coffee was sent to us again. We were treated with
the greatest courtesy and without obtrusive attention. Dora was the
only woman there and there was less staring than there would have
been in America, should one woman come to a man’s assembly.
Ramadan is followed by a three days’ Bairam Feast. Many go to the
graves of their lost ones and thence dispense bread and cakes to the
poOr for the soul beneﬁt of the departed. Some have houses and more
camp out. I saw a return this morning. A woman on a camel had a
large girl before her. In the saddle bags on one side were two bright
girls ten or twelve, and in the other a mother and babe and a little
girl. The picture was heightened by the bright faces of the children.

CAIRO Mamma is getting on so well that we have asked for
yum 17, I889 places on the Marseilles boat of the twenty-ninth
which should land us in France July 4th. Dr.
Worthington to-day says that she is breathing with her lungs as well
as ever, and that she ought to go by that time. He goes with Mrs.
Berkeley to Alexandria the twenty-seventh and they sail for Venice
the ﬁrst. Grébaut tells us he has got his nine thousand pounds for
moving and they make him do it this year and not this year and
next as he would prefer. Pagnon, Cook’s chief man in Cairo hitherto,
tells me he will be in Luxor next winter with both hotels. Putting
down the price of Nile travel one half, will, he expects, keep both
full, one hundred and ﬁfty beds. The two boats like the Ramses which
Rostovitch has gone to France to buy, are bad, Pagnon says, or
Cook would have bought them. Dora and the nurse saw the K iswa’
Saturday with much exhilaration.

 

I. Zikra. see E. W. Lane. “Manners and Customs of the Modern Egyptians." London. 1898. passim.
a. Procession of the Kiswa, ibidem. p. 487.

S35

