NOVEMBER 1887 TO MAY 1888]

ing and are then really artistic. The crocodile head has expression
and the Ptah is noble. Sebek is the local God of the F ayoom and
Ptah, like his Greek after-runner, Vulcan, is the arch artworker in
metal. Grébaut bears the loss of the steamer philosophically; he says
he will have another when he wants to start. He has started a little
digging near the pyramid of Cheops’ daughter and more at Sakkarahl.
He says he will take the Tell-el-Amarna cuneiform tablets from Mo—
hammed Mohassib, and pay him a thousand francs; Mohammed
Mohassib has refused three thousand for them. I suggested that Tano
might have planted them at Tell-el—Amarna, but Daressy says there
is hieratic” on some of them. Grébaut is quite a convert to the meth-
ods of Mariette and wishes the Koorbash still swung. The statue of
the Queen mother3 of Thothmes II, dug out near the Ramesseum last
winter, has a prominent place, and is imposing, despite noselessness.

The Emperor of Brazil4 has chartered the Moeris in which I came
over, so you cannot be rolled in her. Three Fields from Baltimore are
here sick, the fourteen-year-old girl delirious, the result of a six
weeks’ saddle tour in Syria. A Milwaukee Black family was with
them, and its father is broken down. A highly attenuated daughter
knows the Aikens, “Stella, the Poetess,” and writes to Miss Plan-
kington, now at Dresden. When I mentioned that Ooman Bey, the
owner of Miss Plankington’s boat, said she spoke of coming again
with her father, the answer was a very incredulous smile. There is
something there; is it a step-mother?

We are having cloudy mornings and it is getting to be time to start.
Lanky Charters came back yesterday, having done the river. I did
suppose the dengue was quite over but Brugsch gave up to it Satur-
day. They say it was the reason why our dramatic troupe has only
just begun to play.

I. Murray. “Egypt." 1880, p. 257; Porter-Moss. “Topographical Bibliography,” vol. III. Oxford. 1931.
pp. 5-6.

2. A. Erman. “Remarks to H. Winckler, Verzeichniss der aus dem Funde von El Amarna herruhrender
Thontafeln" in “Zeitschrift fur agyptische Sprache." vol. XXVII. 1889. pp. 62—64; see also Ph. Virey.
"Notice des principaux monuments exposés au Musée de Gizeh.” Cairo. 1895. pp. 122—132; no. 2 and I I
with a hieratic docket (Catalogue of the tablets by A. H. Sayce).

3. Mutnefert. queen mother of Thothmes I. See E. Grébaut. “Le Musée Egyptien." vol. 1. Text by G.
Maspero. Cairo, 1890—1900. pl. 1. and pp. 3-4.

4. Pedro II. emperor of Brazil (1825-1891). “a muniﬁcent patron of science and letters." Encyclopaedla
Britannica.

439

