[CHAPTER THREE

your shells; why should it show any signs of ﬁre?” He seemed con-
vinced. Years will pass, I think, before Alexandria will be rebuilt;
Greek, Italian and French inﬂuence here have been permanently
battered down.

Saturday Eppar 5i Maove—Like Galileo after his racking,
December 23, 1882 I say “Still it does move.” The earth will not
stand still though I have slept two nights in a
bed. But I have found and copied some antiquities both days, noti-
ﬁed Maspero of a great granite sarcophagus which is on rollers, seen
more and more ruins, found in odd places stone relics of the Old
Greek town, and refreshed my Arabic with all sorts of people. Some
women to-day besought me to intercede with the Pasha (who had
gone to the races), to let out their sons and husbands. Three hundred
of the poor fellows arrested for the “burning” of the town, have been
set free; ﬁfty or sixty remain and for some of them these women were
waiting, each with a petition in her hand. They told me of their chil-
dren and of the four months they had carried food to their men in
prison, and their eyes were eloquent with tears—even if they were
separated by such gilt tubes as I brought home last year.

CAIRO Yesterday I bought a heavy bronze masque of
Monday Greek or Roman time and some little heads and
X mas Day scarabées and bade adieu to Alexandria the

Ruined. On the way I talked with Syrian, Greek
and Egyptian about the war and the feeling, as I have deligently in
Alexandria. Here in Cairo I ﬁnd Shepheard’s occupied mainly by
Generals and their surroundings, Baker Pachal and Sir Evelyn Wood2
and many more. There are fathers and brothers and sisters and
mothers of wounded or sick soldiers. The putrid water of Kassassin,
they say, caused the slow but effective typhoid which is ﬁlling the
cemetery here; I think the rum—shops have more to do with it. The
Place des Consuls in Alexandria, the Grand Place, is at night aroar
with bands and soldiery; it is lined on both sides with beer and spirit
booths from end to end. The main business of the British Patrol is to

1. Sir Samuel \Vhite Baker. English explorer (I821-—1893).

2. Sir Evelyn Wood. British Field-marshal (1838—1919). in 1882 commanded a brigade in the Egyptian
Expedition. He remained in Egypt for six years. From 1883 to 1885 he was Sirdar of the Egyptian
Army. which he organized and in fact created.——Encyclopaedia Britannica.

180

