FEBRUARY 188.1. TO MAY 1884]

because he opposed this lie in the medical journals he had been
turned out of an oﬂicial place. Yesterday Maspero saw the Khédive;
his eyes were red with weeping. I send you an article for which.the
Bosphore Egyptian has been suppressed; it is only the truth. Judge
Batcheller is going away; the cholera of his wife and the typpoid of
his daughter repay him for staying last summer.

Pomeroy invited me to dine last night with the Italian and Span-
ish Consul-generals and Comanos and an Englishman named Bent.
We had a pleasant time. De Martino, the Italian, told how when ex—
amined for his diplomatic beginning, he, on the strength of a little
voyage in Africa and a few words, inscribed himself for Arabic. It
was in Naples under the Bombas. One day a little old priest came to
his lodgings and told him he was the Professor of Arabic. De Martino
began to tremble and excuse himself until he saw that the priest was
much more embarrassed and when the priest confessed he did not
know a word of it, De Martino became very learned and at the ex-
amination had all possible points for it on condition he would not
expose the Professor. The Spaniard and I quite agreed on British
policy, the French of the Englishman not being such as to prevent
our speaking freely. Before the sham Egyptian government is
brushed away the interest on the debt must be reduced and the
Egyptian army be annihilated.

The Museum looks very well now and I hope to spend some time
in it on our return. It is astonishing how much more it is than when
I ﬁrst saw it, three years ago.

Maspero has forebodings that this voyage will be his
last though thus far the new English sub—minister seems as useful
to him as the old French one was, and in the general reduction of
expenses promises that his shall not be cut down. But he thinks
events are happening so fast that he shall probably be back in Paris
next year. I don’t.

Moncrieffl the sub minister here under whom the Mu-
seum comes, ﬁnds that he cannot use Englishmen and has only
French in his ministry; he will soon be regulated.

1. Sir Colin Scott-Moncricff: “Previous to the British occupation. the Public W'orks Department had been
mainly in French hands. In 1883. it was resolved to appoint a British Under-Secretary to this Depart-
ment. . . . Sir Colin Scott-Moncrieﬁ was named Under-Secretary." Earl Cromer, “Modern Egypt."
London, 1908. vol. II. pp. 290-291.

261

