NOVEMBER 1886 To APRIL 1887]

forty-two Moslems, three lately. A fuss was made about it, but while
we were there a Government letter came saying it was all over and
this was a free country.

To-day we stopped at Coptos, where I showed them what we have
twice seen and I bought a green stone with a dragon cut on it, some-
thing like a sea-horse, a curious old intaglio, Lottie will have it in a

ring she had made by Michael the Copt in Luxor.

Tea is ready and then I hope to go to the Post Ofﬁce in Keneh be-
fore sunset so as to begin work in Denderah tomorrow morning. The
temples are very good places for warm weather. Our ﬁve sailors who
live in Keneh will have a good visit home. Reis Tanyos went some
days ago to his home in Dishneh, some miles below and we shall take
him up as we go along. Our waiter Aly has learned more English and
our Cook Michael has learned to cook better and I think we shall
not leave this home until the heat drives us. The older we get the
more we are willing to let well enough alone ......

The New Steamer Queen C ity is just about the length and width of
the Seven Hat/107's, but she is not seven-foot-four between joints, I’ll
venture to say. There is where we exceed every other boat on the Nile
or the East Arm of Narraganset Bay.

N EARING SIOOT The twenty—third of March we came to Girgeh
April 2, 1887 (having visited Abydos from Belianeh the day be-
fore); we called on Abd-el-Noor, who was happy

that I had made his peace with Grébaut and who showed me a hes
statue of Min-mes, one of Ramses II’s Mudeers. It had just been
found in the temple which Abd-el-Noor is digging out, now with
Grébaut’s authority at Mesheyk. We hurried on about three miles
and then were stopped by a north wind so strong that current and
oars could not prevail against it. Here we were obliged to amuse our-
selves and we did, until the thirtieth. I went by donkey four miles
west to Beerbeh and got a thirty-pound red granite scarab, the big-
gest emblem of the resurrection I have bought yet. The boys drew
and painted sailors and the wonderful mountain opposite and. the
girls made dresses. Dora has thus far made three of stuffs bought in
the country bazaars. One day I went in the small boat, which can
tack and make headway against the wind, down to Girgeh and one

427

