OCTOBER 1881 TO APRIL 1882]

Monday I am going into Keneh to begin where I left off

March 20, 1882 yesterday and shall post this, as tomorrow when

the boat comes, we hope to be elsewhere. Our

letters this week have stopped at Assioot and will wait three or four
days for us.

I enclose Mme. Hagens’ letter, as I ﬁnd that I shall not answer it.
We count on seeing Cairo in ten days.

Monday I marched through Keneh once more in the mom—
March 20, I882 ing and saw the big market and some carpets which
I thought not dear; they come from Arabia by way

of Qossayr across the Red Sea. Then on my way to breakfast and the
boat I stopped at the Mudireeyeh where was Maspero waiting since
morning for the red tape of monthly payment. He had, however, been
much interested in seeing the Mudeer dispense justice. It is astonish-
ing what an amount of business such a half Turk, half Arab does,
reading papers, writing judgments and orders, hearing parties and
settling disputes. He has a Wekeel that is a Vice and his Vice has a
vice, just like the donkey-boy and the donkey-boy’s boy. His pro-
vince has three hundred ﬁfty thousand inhabitants and he has juris-
diction up to twenty-ﬁve hundred dollars and the only men below
him are a sort of compound of justice of the peace and constable. He
slipped off his elastic bottines and put his feet up under him and had
coffee served to his guests. After breakfast it was hot and we loafed
all but the Rhonés who spent six hours in Denderah and at sunset we
started on the ﬁne White donkeys sent for us, to dine at the Mudeer’s.
He received us in the garden and when we had sufﬁciently admired its
debris (for Daood Pasha, the late Mudeer, who lets him house and
garden for forty francs a month, surrendered it to him only two
months ago and it needs care) the ladies were invited up to see the
hareem, which he called “his wife.” His wife, thirty years old, was re-
clining enveloped in cashmere; she has been ill for ﬁfteen years. His
wife twenty years old they thought pretty and she was dressed
Frenchly. Coffee and sherbert were served by two beautiful girls,
one, the ﬁnest, black and the other nearly white. As “the wife”
was a Turk by tongue, her Arabic was not such as to encourage

151

