FEBRUARY 1884. TO MAY 1884]

head and an iron-clad heart. . . . . . And on the whole Pomeroy
speaks and acts so that he thinks him a little crazy. To prove this he
repeats some of Pomeroy’s speeches in French, but not with Pom-
eroy’s accent.

Sunday I worked again in the Museum and Said and his
April 20, I884 brother Farraj came to bid me good-bye and on
business. After noon Mme. and Hervé and-I went
to the Mosque of Amroo in Old Cairo and saw the mark of the Koor-
bash which made the refractory column stump its long way from
Mecca. It typiﬁes Egypt which moves not until commanded in the
name of Allah, and k00rbas/zed.‘ There were great preparations for
the grand festival, the Shamenesseen,2 to-morrow. Then we went
back, and M. and Mme. came with me to the station, where Mr.
Pomeroy had a compartment guarded by two kavasses. Were I not
coming home it would be a sorry thing to leave the Masperos. I
know Mme. much better than last year. And to my mind her char-
acter is deepening fast; her eyes are coming to be like her mother’s in
pleasantness.

Mr. Pomeroy has a nervous apprehension that Batcheller will
try to hurt him. He seems weak and appealing for somebody else’s
backbone. He wants to stay till ﬁrst of July and then get four
months’ leave and take Helen back to Cleveland; for her mother
cannot long stay with her. We arrived at eleven at the Abbatt in
Alexandria.

Monday I breakfasted with the Farmans at eight-thirty.
ﬂpril 21, 1884 Mme. looks happy and fat and does not want to
come to Europe now, though she would like to get

the house started. She has some nice carpets. I spent most of the day
with them, going with him to see Pugioli’s collection of antiquities,3

1. “In front of the pulpit is a column of grey marble. on which. by a freak of nature the name of Allah.
Muhammed. and Sultan Suliman in Arabic characters. and the outline of the prophet's kurbég (whip)
appear in veins of a lighter colour. This column is believed by the Moslems to have been transported
miraculously from Mecca to Cairo by the Caliph Omar." Baedeker. “Egypt." 1929. p. 1 19.

2. Shemm en Neseem or “the Smelling of the Zephyr” is observed on the ﬁrst day of the Khamaseen. See
E. W. Lane. “Manners and Customs of the Modern Egyptians." London, 1898. p. 495; A. H. Sayoe.
"Reminiscences." London. 1923, p. 313.

3. Pugioli Collection. see “Extrait de l'inventaire du Musée de Boulaq comprenant les objects entree dans
les collections du 1erjanvier au 31 déoembre 1888." in “Bulletin de l’Institut Egyptien." 1888. Cairo.
1889, pp. IV-XII.

313

