[CHAPTER ONE

second. Last evening the painter Dubois,1 who is going up to Assuan
in a dahabeeyeh, called on me and we went to the American Consul’s
to a fantasia where I found myself beside Paul Dubois. We neither
knew each other until we had talked some time and he had asked me
if I knew Mr. Wilbour who was up here somewhere. Another has been
up and I had no suspicion he meant me. The two Dubois found they
both dated back to Neufchatel. Yesterday I went to see things at
Goornah in a tomb, papyrus, statues and two pairs of celestial sus-
penders, which puzzle me very much.2 I have written a description of
them to M. Maspero, to see if he has seen anything similar. Alto—
gether I have seen ﬁve or six papyri, none of which I care much for.
Then I walked over the mountain to the tombs of the Kings and
lunched with a party from the hotel and found a duplicate Cow-
Room in a tomb which Champollion has described and everybody
since him and which everybody who comes here goes to see and which
I had been to see before myself“. I could hardly believe I was not in
Seti’s tomb where the Cow-Room is, which contains the famous text
of the Destruction of Mankind, Ra having got tired of them. In Dr.
Birch’s room I spent a day comparing Naville’s copy‘ of it with a set
of paper stamps which Dr. Birch had engaged a friend to make. And
here was another Cow-Room in one of the best known and most
visited tombs. It seems like a dream now and I should not be sur—
prised if I failed to ﬁnd it again. How could it have escaped every-
body?

To-day there is a wind full of sand which makes indoors comforta—
ble. A day’s sight-seeing fortunately needs a day’s reading after it.

LUXOR The days glide by; I go to Karnak for half days, to
Marc}: 1, 1881 the Tombs of the Kings or to Medinet-Abu for
whole days. I see as many pleasant people in daha-

beeyehs as I wish. Saturday evening I dined with Mr. Blinkhorn of
Sutton Grange St. Helens, twelve miles from Liverpool; I had met

1. Paul Dubois. French sculptor and painter (1 829—1905).
2. Celestial suspenders or braces. G. Maspero. “Guide to the Cairo Museum." translated by J. E. and A. A.

Quibell. Cairo. 1903. p. 298. See also “Les Momies royales de Deve el Bahari." Paris. 1889. pp. 708-709.
3. Cow Room. See E. Naville. “L'Inscription de la destruction des hommes dans le tombeau de Ramses
III" in “Transactions of the Society of Biblical Archaeology." London. vol. VIII.. pp. 412—420. There is
no mention in this paper of the name of Wilbour.
4. Naville's copy. See E. Naville. “La destruction des hommes par les dieux. d'aprés une inscription mytho-
logique du Tombeau de Séti I” in “Transactions of the Society of Biblical Archaeology." London. vol.

IV. 1875. pp. 1-19.

50

