NOVEMBER I887 TO MAY 1888]

tus with loop holes to string it on a necklace, and a piece of black
granite the broken corner of a brick. It may be of Greek time but to
me it is the oldest monument I know of the Serpent-woman, who has
ﬁgured so much in legends of all medieval and modern times. Here
she is Goddess Hathor and is identiﬁed with the Cobra, because she,
the beneﬁcent, giveth death. The Greeks made of her Aphrodite;
“l’amour, c’est la mort.” The Copt made me pay well for her and
said she was from a mound not far to the west, which is hard to be-
lieve. The afternoon of the twenty-ninth we sailed a few miles and in
the morning of the thirtieth I went up by the hundreds of Moham-
medan tombs, chief among them the new and ﬁne one of Sultan
Pacha, the chimneys of whose Sugar Mills overshadow the land, to
search for the nineteen tombs which Lepsius copies from in the
Denkméilerl. One of them was very fully described by Champollion
and its scenes given by Rosellini are repeated in all books on Egypt.
These tombs were blasted out when the Sugar Mills were built; they
are in good limestone. But one which furnished a picture of a house
to Champollion, and which was overlooked by Lepsius, being higher
up than his row, I did ﬁnd, and I worked two days in it. Champollion
describes it almost fully2, but he overlooked the most interesting part,
the personal narrative of the man, Goodplans, his name. It is true
that I spent the ﬁrst day reading and copying other things, and only
by the better light of the setting sun discovered the value of this dark
corner. Yesterday I gave all day to his twenty-ﬁve lines and though
much mutilated I shall be able to make out something from them.
There are only four or ﬁve such inscriptions known and they are fa—
mous all. Champollion found one at El Kab and Brugsch another;
Mariette one at Sakkarah, which de Rouge ﬁrst published; Ebers
found a fourth in a tomb at Thebes. There are two at Beni—Hassan
which the good wind this day temps us to pass. For we have made
twenty miles in the last four hours and though it is almost sunset we
will stop at Rodah only long enough to go to the post. And so a
happy New Year to you all.

 

I. Zauiet el Meitin. see R. Lepsius, “Denkmiiler.” Text. vol. II. Leipzig. I904. pp. 55-69; W. \Vreszinski,
”Bericht ﬁber die photographische Expedition." Halle, 1927. p. 33.

2. Champollion, “Monuments." pl. CCCCI. no. 2. “Notices descriptives," vol. II. D. 454. from the tomb of
Nefer-sekheru of the XIXth dynasty.

453

