[CHAPTER TWO

north side, the couloir six or seven feet high descending steeply into
the heart of the False One. The descent, by my little brass machine,
is 56 in 100, but it is easy to go down by bracing arms and legs against
the sides. With Roobi and two or three black urchins Maspero and
Brugsch went down. About twenty metres in Maspero called to us
that some Twentieth Dynasty visitors had been before us and left
their names on the wall in good hieratic. They are the Scribe Amen-
mes and the Scribe Sokar. Then they went twenty metres farther to
the end of the present excavation ﬁnding nothing more. There is no
ventilation there and the air is hot and lifeless. Only six men can work
at a time and they are changed every half hour. A few days more will
reach the chambers; we pray they may be inscribed. So we came
away to the Mastabah where the Sheikhs are employing the remaining
workmen. Only a facade with two false doors and no hieroglyphs
yet appear. We breakfasted on the sand and retraced our (donkey’s)
steps to El Wasta and after waiting an hour for the train (you always
wait an hour here) came back to the Steamer. To-day the smaller
girthed have gone to ﬁnish copying the pyramid and I join them at
two to go to Dashoor and see the work going on there. To-morrow we
shall start up the river and coal at El Wasta. Probably the Pyramid
there will not be ready for us and Brugsch, who returns to the Mu-
seum tonight to stay till we reach Luxor, will have the ﬁrst peep at
its mysteries. If it should be inscribed we can come down by rail
easily to it, should we not be above Sioot. The couloir resembles that
of the Great Pyramid at Gizeh, which is not inscribed. As we took
seats in the train came your letters of the seventh and tenth. The last
is dated Friday and I read it Friday morning. It was less than a week
coming to Bedreshayn. It made it seem nearer ......

Sunday Yesterday afternoon I went with Charmes and
December 18, 1881 Rhoné to the Nefer-ka—ra Pepi Pyramid and
thence to Dashoor where Sheikhs Mustapha

Shayeen and Mohammed are at work on the Brick Pyramidl south of
the big one. It is built of very light sun-dried bricks about 5 x 8 x 16

 

I. Pyramid of Amenemhat III.

90

