[CHAPTER TWO

sions; he had not bought at Sioot, because things were dear there.
The Arabs are all anxious to get back to Cairo with the stuﬁ" they
have bought to sell again; the Captain has even some sheep. We re-
traced one sandy mile along the falling bank of the river and then
went half another east to the Dayr and then three-quarters more
east to the ravine on the north side of which is the Colossus on the
sledge,1 which you can see all about in Murray. I had copied the in-
scriptions in Lepsius and had time to compare and correct a part of
them. Maspero has translated them and knew the copies were right.
So after looking about a few minutes, he went to the next tomb where
are a few square yards of hieroglyphics and in half an hour was ready
to go back to boat and breakfast. Some day I hope to spend a day in
the tomb and copy the three-quarters which Lepsius didn’t do with-
out seeing the rock stele of Thothmes III2 in a quarry a little way be-
yond, or the tombs of the Sixth Dynasty on the other side of the
ravine, or the quarries with Demotic inscriptions and cartouches one-
half mile farther on, or the Eighteenth Dynasty tablet a mile to the
north, or the church of St. Helena’s time, or any of the other things
on the way to Antinoe. We came back and came on and now at
four o’clock we are stopping at Minieh for bread for our soldier-
sailors. Since breakfast the four ladies have been at work at the
table at which I have been writing and just now we are aground aft
and the awning is being taken away and we must all go.

We honored the waters of Minieh with our presence till the middle

of the forenoon,

Friday when we had received bread for our army and set
March 31, 1882 our faces northward. There was a little rain and I
sat a good part of the day under my aerated um-

brella, the old green one, which was good against the light when
there were no drops from heaven. “7e had a few touches of sand but
at four reached Feshn and sent up to the headquarters of the Daira
Saneeyeh to know ifDaninos3 were at home. In answer Daninos came.

1. Murray. “Egypt”. 1880. pp. 415—4I6.

2. Stele of Thothmes III see Nestor L'Héte, “Lettres écrites d'Egypte en 1838 et 1839." Paris. 1840. pp.
45—46: K. Sethc. "Urkunden dcr XVIII dynastic." vol. II. Leipzig, 1906, p. 597.

3. A. Daninos pacha: See his Necroiogy by J. B. Piot-bey in “Bulletin de I'Institut d'Egypte," vol. VIII.
Cairo. 1926. p. 348. Daninos working under the direction of Mariette pacha discovered the famous
statues of Meidum: A. Daninos. “Lettre de M. Daninos-hey a M. G. Maspero. au sujet de la découverte
de statues de Meidoum." in “Recueil de travaux relatifs a la philoiogie et a I'archéologie égyptiennes et
assyriennes." vol. VIII. 1886, pp. 69—73.

160

