[CHAPTER FOUR

We stopped at El Kab and I veriﬁed the famous text of Aahmes
and that of the drinking women in the grave of Pa Hir, his grandson,
while Maspero escorted the Consul. We took on board a headless
statue of the time of the Twelfth Dynasty, which I have not ex—
amined yet.

And now we are approaching the pylons of Edfoo, where we shall
spend the night and leave our mail for the next postal boat.

ASSUAN Yesterday we went at three to the Temple at
February 28, I884 Edfoo and I busied myself till near sunset with
one text running round outside the sanctuary,
which gives the relic of Osiris for each none, and another at the head
of the west stairway to the roof, up which the god was taken at stated
times to see the Disk of the Sun. These relics of Osiris in the nomes
have certain relations to the gods of the twenty-eight divisions of the
Cubit and to the gods also of the days of the Moon. They always re-
mind me of the old ﬁgure of a man in the Almanacs, with the signs of
the Zodiac ranged about him, showing which limb is affected when
the Moon is in each sign. There are two lists of the relics in Denderah,
both unpublished, which with this make a fairly trustworthy cata-
logue of these, the foundations of Egyptian faith. The main temple of
each nome was built to keep and the main god or goddess to guard its
relic. They grew out of it, just as a Christian church and worship
does. And yet Mariette in his four folios of texts of Denderah did not
ﬁnd a page for these; indeed, he did not suspect their existence. M.
Maspero and Mme. had been extolling the sunsets seen from the top
of the pylon. So twenty minutes before sunset I went up the two
hundred forty-ﬁve steps and met them coming down with the Con-
sul; and I saw the wonderful sight alone, the shadows of the western
mountain creeping across the green plain which bordered the river
far away to the north and to the south. In this mountain are holes,
the gates of tombs they seem to me; next time I must carry my tele-
scope. Brugsch did not know that they had ever been visited.

There was a slab offered for sale, said to come out of the Sharraf,
the mound of the old city, which bore the name of Augustus Caesar. I
recommended Maspero to take it to the Museum as we had nothing
else to show that work had been done there in Roman time. But he

278

