[CHAPTER ONE

and one-half dollars an acre. He owns a black slave ten or twelve
years old, Abdallah, who drives the white donkey and me over to
Karnak sometimes. But as he goes to the Arab school Monday,
Wednesday, Thursday and Saturday (paying ten cents a week, for
schooling and a small loaf of dourra bread each day) little Mo-
hammed went with the white donkey yesterday. He chattered very
clearly so that I really understood something of what he said. Of the
four buffalo cows which are driven into the hotel yard every day, his
mother brings two and for their milk, the Locanda, Italo—Arabic for
Hotel, pays her six copper piastres the rotl, which being interpreted
means seven cents a quart. It is very good milk. Mohammed does not
go to school now; he did when younger and learned four Surats
(chapters of the Koran) which he proudly intoned to me. Old Mus-
tapha is picking me up to tell him the value of his antiquities; I was
at his house last evening at a fantasia for some prince or other who
admired the music very much. I had previously admired an old
woman who sat behind the dancers, for her striking likeness to the
Fourth Dynasty statues. She seemed to have motherly care of the girl
who danced with the bottle on her head, of which I wrote you, and
occasionally gave a whiﬁ' of her cigarette to one of the ﬁddlers, put-
ting it to his mouth. Mustapha’s son, Ahmed, told me that the two
women were the wives of this ﬁddler and that the family lived chieﬂy
from the earnings of the girl. She had at least ﬁve hundred dollars of
gold coins hung about her neck. The most expert dancer was the
ugliest, as we have seen in the Temple of Mercury at Baiae and on
the Pompeian frescoes.

Brugsch seems quite disgusted with his Prince, who, he says, cares
for nothing but shooting; how can you explain these wonders to a boy
who is always with his ﬁnger on the trigger? He will be back in a day
or two. Did I tell you about the curious pair of red Morocco suspen—
ders shown me in Goornah with cartouches of Pi-nodjem I of the
Twenty-ﬁrst Dynasty. They are so fresh that the mummy must have
been opened lately and I am going to try to ﬁnd the tomb, now un-
known, except to the fellahs who found it. I made the cartouche
Osorkon I, but Maspero has better means of determining. He asks
for news from you all in his letter.

54

