OCTOBER 1881 T0 APRIL 1882]

Tuesday Starting with the sun we landed at Qasr es-Sayadl
March 21, 1882 but with three hours journeying found not the
sculptured tombs. Another hour would have taken
us to them but only I had taken a donkey. Said bought a tablet with
some Greek poetry and sundry small things. At How,2 nearby the
birthplace of Nephthys, we stopped with similar success, seeing only
some foundations of a temple of Roman time. Donkeys, good eyes
and a little more time will I think hereafter produce different results.
We came near sticking where the Princes did, but after passing the
Cami/la with Mr. and Mrs. Pattersons’ heads out the window, we
are at last tied up at Belianeh. I must not forget to mention that
Mme. Rhoné who is such a spinal invalid that she is carried every-
where by porters, and cannot go up and down our ten stairs without
calling for two of the sailors to carry her, was able, M. Maspero told
me, to go up and down thirty stairs unaided, that she might see the
Mudeer’s hareem.

Wednesday Said had got me the horse of Mohammed Bey, a
March 22, 1882 rather chunky but lively and good natured sorrel
four years old, for the ride to Abydos. M. Rhoné

not ﬁnding a donkey to suit him, walked. Mme. Maspero stayed on
the boat alone. On the way the man who told me he was the “Sais be-
longing to the horse,” conﬁded to me that Filly ate a dollar’s worth of
clover every day and when he got to Abydos he would like to buy
him some. I told him I would have Said buy him some and Filly's
appetite was so poor he didn’t ﬁnish ten cents worth. We spent our
day busily. M. Maspero discovering two Carian inscriptions3 in addi-
tion to the dozen Phenician which he had been requested by Paris-
pundits to verify, Bouriant continuing his Coptic hunt, and I my
survey of the walls of the temples. About two days more and I shall
have been over them all. I left a little after the rest, and going to take
leave of the old blind Reis, Seleeb (“the cruciﬁed”) I found that his

I. Qasr es-Sayad: Lepsius. ”Denkmaler.” Text. vol. II. Leipzig. 1904. pp. 177-181. describes the tombs
as they were in October. 1843; Murray. “Egypt." 1881. p. 439. says “some indeed in a very good state
of preservation;" W. W'reszinski, “Bericht ilber die photographische Expedition von Kairo bis Wadi
Haifa." Halle, 1927. pp. 71—72: “so gut wie verloren.”

2. How: a few blocks of the temple are scattered in the gardens in the middle of the village. See A. Eisen-
lohr. "On the How Inscriptions" in the ”Proceedings of the Society of Biblical Archaeology." vol. VIII,
1886. pp. 77—79.

3. Carian Inscriptions of Abydos: See A. H. Sayce. "The Karian Language and Inscriptions” in "Transac-
tions of the Society of Biblical Archaeology." vol. IX, 1893, pp. 112—154.

IS3

