[CHAPTER THREE

him had a papyrus but of course he knew not what it was. It is a
great pleasure to be the ﬁrst after twenty-ﬁve hundred years to read
what has been a sealed book so long. I am to go to study it to-
morrow. The rooms in this palace are more roomy than I have seen
elsewhere, but there is not much furniture. The big boy, who is own
cousin to the Khédive, is in disgrace now; he was rather favorable to
Arabi thinking he had a chance to become Khédive himself.
Brugsch came to see me and he is gone with his hurrying Prince. Mr.
Allan Marquand came to me with a card from Professor F iske, who
had come to London, book hunting. Marquand is studying architec-
ture having given a course of lectures on it in Princeton. A young
man of San José, California, having given a course of lectures on
Egypt, is also here to learn something about Egypt and Ethnol-

ogy.

CAIRO Tuesday I went, after posting letter and Egyp—
Friday tian Gazettes to you, to Ibrahim’s again to
yanuary 12, 1883 study the papyrus. He had gone to the Wekeel’s
and I did not ﬁnd him there. I went Wednesday
to breakfast with the Brédifs; neither of the Madames like the cli-
mate; the elder can’t keep warm. As M. Brédif’s only function here
at present is as a sort of silent protest against the rupture of old
agreements by England, he has had time to look about and buy
pretty things. And he has shown much taste. We had apples grown
on their place which they brought with them by Grande Vitesse.
Mme. Mere had seen the Princess wife of the Khédive, a sort of
roly—poly kitten apparently, overjoyous at all things, a child of
twenty with growing boys. She told her with delight how the night
before at nine o’clock when she was in bed Lord Dufi‘erinl had sent to
the Khédive that he hoped he should see him at the Opéra and the
Khédive sent for her and she put her paletot on over her chemise and
went. She liked it, but Mme. Brédif was indignant that the ruler of a
country should be subject to such instant orders.
Wednesday afternoon I found Ibrahim Pasha; he told me the
papyrus and its keeper had awaited me Tuesday. After a few minutes

1. Lord Duﬁerin. British diplomatist (1826—1902). “From October. 1882. to May. 1883. was in Egypt as
British Commissioner to report on a scheme of reorganization"—Encyclopaedia Britannica. See ibidem
under word Cromer “That gifted nobleman. in the delightful lucidity of his picturesque report. left
nothing to be desired except the material necessary to convert the ﬂowing periods into political entities."

188

