OCTOBER 1881 TO APRIL 1882]

priests who showed us books and gave us queer cakes with a Greek
inscription and an odd cross. The books were MSS but only two or
three hundred years old; rather ﬁnely illuminated MSS. While we
ate our breakfast under a gallery here arose the ﬁrst Khamseen of
the season and our food and drink and selves were soon mingled with
remains of the old monks in coarse powder. We talked about buying
some inscribed stones over the church door, but they thought it
would be a shame and we rode back two miles with them to the
house of one, who had much ﬁner carpets than we and who showed
us more and ﬁner books belonging to the Church, and gave us coffee.
He set before us too, the curdled milk which people like here, a big
dish with spoons for each; but we were too full for innerance. Then
we came back and I stopped again in the garden and sniffed the
apple blossoms, which after all, are ﬁner than orange ﬂowers; they
are delicate and not strong.

In the evening I went over to the Cook boat and saw the party of
Miss Mason whom I had seen at the fantaizeeyeh of Aly Moorad
“Jitte Jittelz,” as the brother of Osman described them, “six women,
ﬁnish men.” “Finish” means without. One of them told me she left
New York January 4, had spent a month in Italy, would have a
month in Egypt, another in Palestine, Damascus and Balbek, then
go to Smyrna, Constantinople, Athens and by Trieste and Munich
into Germany and so to Paris in May, when she wishes to go to
Spain for a month and then to Sweden and Norway for another and
then home, leaving Great Britain till she comes over again to pilot
her sister. She had seen things in Cairo which I have not and written
forty-eight letters. She likes Miss Mason’s party but not the Cook
party. At Philae they sight-saw from nine to half past ten. Then a
big Frenchman got at the lunch and Mohammed made them take
theirs for fear he would leave nothing, and then when they put to
vote the hour of return, one o’clock had most votes, and she wanted
to stay till four. Miss Mason is a Catholic and hates the United
States and Republics and is so different in her feelings towards the
North from the Southern girls in the party who are nice. But she
thinks she is good and likes her for all that. The other girls were
having a good time with some Russian and German counts and
barons on board. teaching them English, but she had no time for

147

