[CHAPTER TEN

they came from Sheikh Fadl across the river, where Sir Gardner
Wilkinson saw remains of two temples. Thence we saw El Gayce
three or four miles to the south, but turned our steps to Beni Mazar
and the table which we reached at three. I walked about four hours,
longer than I have for ﬁve years and was not too tired. Yesterday the
wind was too strong (from the south) for an excursion and so we
postponed Sheikh Fadl and El Gayce, this the Kynopolis, the dog—
town of the Greeks, with dog mummies on the east side of the river.
And to-day we have come on with a merry wind and no excitement
except a half hour’s stop to see the Professor’s boat get off the sand.
If all goes well this will be in the post ofﬁce at Minieh before sun-
down.

yanuary 17, 1891 We found much mail at Minieh at dusk and it is

occasionally satisfactory to know that the world
still turns round, even if the Democratic victory has more than deci-
mated the wealth of the country.

181/2 The wind failed at Kom el Ahmar and we found the noble

tomb of Nofer-Sekheru, the last of twenty in good preservation
thirty years ago, sadly mutilated.l Large pieces have been cut out,
one not yet ﬁnished; perhaps to be ﬁnished when we left. And what
is more speedily destructive, all the rest is carefully hammered, full
twenty—ﬁve strokes to the square foot, so that no subsequent de-
stroyer may compete. Professor Sayce thinks he has copied the whole
of it; I have done the personal narrative on the front wall.

yanuary 19, 1891 We made little progress and

201/2 Visited Rodah where the Greeks complain that the Museum
has pretty much stopped people from digging. But there was

never much here.

21“ We went up and saw the ruins of the Colossus tomb behind
Bersheh. Sayce who saw it last year did not wish to go into it
again. It is sickening. Great portions are cut away and all the rest

1.. See Hermann Kees, “Ein Klagelied ﬁber das Jenseits” in “Zeitschrift fﬁr ﬁgyptische Sprache." vol.
LXII. 1927. pp. 73-79.

582

