DECEMBER 1882 TO APRIL 1883]

he left me with the papyrus and Emile Barriére Bey, the Engineer
of his Daira. I studied and copied it for two hours. A part of this
papyrus was shown me two years ago by Mohammed Abd-er-Rasool
in his den at Goornah, if I am not much mistaken. This is the be-
ginning, and contains the only ﬁgures: The Grand Superior of the
Chief hareem or convent of Ammon, Isi-n-Kheb (Isis of Khemmis)
making offering to Osiris. She is down in the book as the wife of Men-
Kheper-ra, the son of King Pi-notem I of the Twenty—ﬁrst Dynasty,
and her husband was the High Priest of Ammon. They were big
folks and make more ﬁgure than his brother the King Pisebkhan. In
the second volume of Brugsch’s Historyl you will ﬁnd the family tree
on a long sheet, and in my letter of March, 1881, how the dragoman
made Abd—er-Rasool give him twenty napoleon bakhshish out of the
three hundred paid for the last end of this papyrus by the Count

de Mérode ......

Thursday I went to the Museum and found Mme. Maspero in
black and looking more as when we saw her last October. The day of
departure is now the eighteenth; she wants me to move down Mon-
day so as to see ifI need anything more before we start. M. Maspero
had had a talk Wednesday with the Khédive who could not conceal
a bitter hatred of the English. Mme. showed me with pride her
Christmas card, the work of which she attributes to Zoe. I could not
contradict it.

Saturday I went through the American Mission School
7cmuary I3, 1883 Thursday afternoon. Some three hundred girls
and boys show all shapes and colors from whitest
to blackest and most are rather bright, learning English and French
as well as Arabic. They have besides about ﬁfty schools all over
Egypt and teach near two thousand children in all, mainly through
native teachers. Friday I copied some from Dr. Grant’s stones and
saw Charmes. He told me DuHerin told him: “Ce n’est pas Arabi qui
a brulé Alexandrie; c’étaient les malfaiteurs et nos obus.” And yet
scarce an Englander here who does not ﬂare up if anybody seems in-
credulous about Arabic petroleum.

 

1. Henry Brugsch-bey. "A History of Egypt under the Pharaohs.” 2nd edit. London. 1881. vol. II. Table
IV. "Genealogical Table of the Royal Families of the dynasties XX to XXVI."

189

