DECEMBER 1880 TO APRIL 1881]

Unfortunately the earth was at one time upon this text and the
nitre eats the soft stone so that much of it and the very interesting
perpendicular lines below are past recovery. I will try to get Professor
Maspero to transport his school here and copy the whole temple.

In the meantime the crew had bought wheat, had it cleaned and
ground and baked and we started tracking toward night.

Monday morning the south wind was so strong that we had to lie
still and I took a long walk into the country with one of the crew who
gave me the names of things. Saw much cattle and in the village at
the well where a group of women were congregated, a little damsel
offered me water; her innocence was covered only by a pair of ear-
rings and she seemed warm enough though I wear all that I do in
Paris at this season. Unfortunately I had no thirst; where the
fellalzé’en congregate, there are ﬂies, which do not expect to be chased
away. This afternoon the wind has gone down and we are tracking
and Elsen is on shore shooting store of pigeons.

Tuesday The postal steamer has just passed us going to
February I, 1881 Esneh and Luxor. I almost wish I was on board;
I am losing so much precious time here with the
South wind that will not let us track more than ﬁve miles to-day.
The seductive beauty of the Nile is not lastingly overpowering; the
senses do not permanently steal away the brains. But we are hoping
for Edfoo, Elsen for the shooting and I for the temple and we spend
three or four hours a day on Arabic with Albert. I read Champollion
and Brugsch’s Dictionaries. Brugsch is to come up the middle of
February with Prince Rodolphe1 whose marriage with Elsen’s King’s
sixteen-.year-old daughter has been postponed. I shall probably hear
nothing of Mariette’s succession till I reach Luxor and I shall get no
letter till then. I started with the promise of reaching Assuan in ﬁve
days; six have passed and we are scarcely more than one—quarter of
the way. We are at the will of the wind.

Albert tells me the prices of provisions have much increased. The
new system of taxation, avoiding the plunder of the fella/wen, makes
them rich so that for the ﬁrst time when he offered a price for a tur-

 

I. Prince Rodolph: Rudolph of Hapsburg (1858—1889). the only son of Emperor Francis-Joseph of Austria-
Hungary.

37

