NOVEMBER 1890 TO MAY 1891]

Birkbeck, wife, daughter and riiece, Miss Harboard, taller than Dora.
They take a dahabeeyeh and photographs. Letters came too Friday
night and Linnie is coming; so now I shall be able to make out my
provision list. This morning I on donkey met Mr. Cramer on horse—
back and he went with me on my daily survey of the dahabeeyeh, a
pleasant man loving the beautiful river. The south wind has ceased
to-day and there is hope of a change. I have called to-day on the
Goodisons who are to go up with Chester in the Rudder Grange. Mrs.
Goodison has studied hieroglyphics continually since I started her
four years ago, lately with Lanzonel in Turin; she showed me a large
MSS. Dictionary she had made. Yesterday morning I spent with Dr.
Worthingtonlooking up a boat for his party; Mr. Birkbeck is a great
sufferer. We were not quite satisﬁed and I forgot the India, which I
was reminded of to-day by its Rais; the Dr. has gone to see it. Six of
them including a maid, want six separate rooms. Only the old
Pharaon affords them without encroaching on the bathroom or the
backroom. Mrs. Mason knows well the Pomeroy girls and has heard
of us therefrom. Her friend, Mrs. Barton, who bruised her face falling
from a donkey, has been down but once when she caught neuralgia
from the draft; she has since returned to her room and vaseline, a
patient Quakerish body from Philadelphia; the vaseline prescription
has dubbed me Doctor. Mr. Grant gave a tea to-day to about twenty
Americans and Professor Sayce. It was very pleasant. The President
of Lehigh University told me he had a son-in-law Wilbur who was
President of the Lehigh Valley Railroad, come from Connecticut and
of the Westerly Wilburs. A letter from Insinger less melancholy. He
says the Anti-Cook hotel is far from ready. A card from Carleton is
dated at Jeypore, somewhere in India. As they had been two hours
on elephants that morning, I judge Florence is better. Professor
Sayce is ﬁnding in the Tell el Amarna cuneiform tablets at Berlin,
now all printed, several Egyptians residing in Palestine as Royal
Commissioners, whom we know of from hieroglyphics. Of one I have
a copy of a statue just found at Mendes; he Pa-oor was own cousin to
the Amenhotep who as architect set up the Colossi of Amenhotep
III. Haggi Khamees has offered as surety against liens on the Phi/ac,
Ahmed Bey Sookky, Hassan Speke’s father-in—law. Good security if

 

1. Rudolfo Vittorio Lanzone, Italian Egyptologist.
S 7 S

