[CHAPTEREIGHT

EKHMEEM Early in the morning we went to Ekhmeem. My
December 5, I888 rudder bar is too heavy and bends the rudder
post, and the wood about the post was ﬁxed
after Insinger left so as to cramp it. Frénay started the needful alter-
ations, and support for the rudder bar. Léon, the young Engineer
you have seen with him, and his new wife breakfasted with me while
Frénay went across the river to diagnose a smashed engine. After-
noon I returned Khaleel’s visit and he showed me a lot of Middle
Empire wooden Sarcophagi from El Medeeneh‘, a new digging a
mile or so east of the Dayos of Ekhmeem. Two of the ladies were
“King’s sole favorite,” another named Love, was “King’s cousin,”
“King’s Beauty” and a “Watcher of Min,” the vigorous God of this
Nome. There has been a contest whether he should be called Khem,
or Min, from which the Greeks might have made Pan. One of the
names I saw here is so written as to prove Min. A lady was prophetess
of the Lady of the Sycamore, or Hathor in her Temple at Memphis.
There was an “Archon, Keeper of the Seal,” and another who was
these and “noble privy counselor and arch prophet.” This box had
seventy-two kinds of stuff painted on one side, which Insinger
photographed. There was a large limestone tablet, door-shaped, of a
privy counselor named Emma. An Ekhmeem tablet had ﬁve different
Osirises: (I) “Khentament of Abydos”; (2) “of Coptos in the Gold
house”; (3) “Sokar in the Mystic Sarcophagus.” This is the Osiris of
Memphis; (4) “of Busiris Unnefer,” Beautiful Being. This is his
name as King, often in a cartouche; (5) “In the Underland.” Mas-
pero announces the discovery that Osiris of Busiris is older than
Osiris of Abydos and elder, indeed the originalz. Plutarch says that
Eudoxus had the same opinion.

Many letters and papers came at night.

December 6, 1888 Read mainly. Sidrach, who has been raided
again by Grébaut, probably at Khaleel’s instiga-

tion, had only a pot for me; it hangs in the corner. The papers from

I. U. Bouriant. “Notes de Voyage." § 2. Quelques découvertes faites en Egypte pendant l'hiver de 1888-
1889. II Akhmim. in “Recueil de Travaux." vol. XI. 1889. pp. 140-143.

Pierre Lacau. “Sarcophazes antérieurs an Nouvel Empire" (“Catalogue general du Musée du Caire")
Cairo, 1904. pp. 1—40.

2. See G. Maspero. Sur l’ennéade. in “Revue de l’Histoire du Religions." vol. XXV. 1892 (reprinted in
“Bibliothéque égyptologique." vol. 11. Paris. 1893. pp. 359—364): “was the ﬁrst to point out that this
cosmogony originated in the Delta. and in connection with the Osirian cities." The theory is now gener-
ally accepted: K. Sethe. “Urgeachichte und alteste Religion der Aegypter." Leipzig. 1930. p. 83.

488

