DECEMBER I882 TO APRIL 1883:]

The sarcophagus is different from any I have seen and very hand-
some. Poor Horhotep has been out of it so long that perhaps he will
not mind its change of place.

Monday The old Bishop of Limerick came over after his
Fearuary 26, 1883 service and liked it so much that he has gone
over with Maspero again to-day. Yesterday
after this tomb and breakfast in another, from the mouth of which
we looked out over the Rameseum and the Colossi to Erment upon a
green picture framed in rugged rock, Old Kamoorry, who gave me
that little statue of a Copt last year, came up to see me. He looks
younger much than last year, in spite of his three wives, and seemed
very glad to see me. The spectacles I sent him have enabled him to do
some very good work. Then Youssef came over with scarabées he had
made for the party and went with me to more tombs. These people
who live within half an hour of the tombs of the kings very rarely go
there; Youssef told me he had been but three times in his life and two
of those to see me.

To-day there has been a strong wind with much sand therein.
..... Oddly enough we had a fog this morning, a new proof of
English appropriation of the country as I had a chance to tell to an
Englishman this morning. These people would hate the English; even
Ahmed, Mustafa Aga’s son, though all politeness and attention to
English travellers, and though now disgusted with Arabi, really
hates the English and believed in Arabi last summer. So did every-
body else here theoretically, though practically most ﬂed to the
mountain to avoid conscription. Seleeb tells me how the Postal
steamers went down towing sometimes a dozen boats loaded with
recruits. Every street in Cairo was a drill-ground and after a few

'days’ training they were sent off by regiments. Maspero has changed
plans so as to take Guy Lussac up to Assuan and will not start until
March sixth and as we shall stop here a little on our return and also
at Amarna and Bedreshayn, we shall hardly arrive at Cairo by April
Fool’s Day, and I cannot meet you in Italy until after the middle of
the month.

Mr. Farman reached Alexandria the twenty-ﬁrst by the Egyptian
Gazette. The Mahdi has taken Obeid the capital of Darfourl and I
1. Earl of Cromer, “Modern Egypt." London. 1908. vol. I. p. 357. (February 18.)

223

 

