[CHAPTER ONE

the Tomb of Numbers.1 Then at the invitation of Essaid Ismain we
went into the Kafr el Haram, the Village of the Pyramids, and saw
some things they wished to sell, of which I took note: a bas-relief of
a Phoenician goddess with a ﬁsh’s tail, a piece cut from the Tomb of
“Lady” who had something to do with the King whom we have
seen, or with King Pepi, and a “blessed” statue2 without inscription,

like this:

It is only among the Arabs that you come to learn that this is a
blessed position. Brugsch showed me on Friday, I forgot to say, a
stele just bought at Sakkarah for ﬁve francs by Baron somebody
which shows that there were at Memphis temples of Baal and of
Astarte.3

Monday Yesterday I found the way to de Rochemonteix’s.
yanuary 10, 188! The Arab told me that everybody had gone out
but Mr. Maspero who was sick and that he was

asleep. I saw Mr. and. Mrs. Cramer who are very pleasant. My
neighbor at table, four years engineer for Halim Pasha, whose
palace we go to see at Shoobra and who was exiled by his nephew
Ismael sixteen years ago, tells me good stories of Arabs, how when he
abolished ﬂogging in his repair shop, they petitioned him to re-
instate it, saying that it was unwise to change the customs of a coun—
try; how a geologist, his friend, was robbed in a village and he com-
plained to the police who corralled and whipped the whole male
population twice around and on the third time the money was found
and the sheik (after having been twice bastinadoed) killed a sheep
and made merry with the police. He has been out to-day to discover
a seventh step to the step pyramid and succeeded. Somebody in Eng-
land where he lives in Leeds wished him to see if this were not like
the Chaldean or Babylonian seven-stepped pyramids. I received a
note from Mme. Maspero this morning and went over to see them.
She talked fast enough and interestingly; he was better of the fever
(not malarial) attack, but in his sleep yesterday had been attacked

I. Palm-tree beams: Tomb of Nebemakhet in the Cemetery \Vest of the Khephren Pyramid. See Porter-
Moss, loc. cit. vol. II. p. 9. no. 12. Tomb of Numbers: Tomb of Khefre-ankh near the village of Kafr.
See Porter-Moss. loc. cit. vol. III. p.'53. no. 75; for both see Murray, "Egypt." 1880. p. 262.

2. Blessed-statue: see E. Suys. " ﬁtude sur le conte du Fellah plaideur," Roma. 1933. p. 28.

3. Baal and Astarte. See Herman Ranke. “Istar als Heilgottin in Aegypten." in "Studies presented to F.
Ll. Grifﬁth." London. 1932. pp. 415—417.

22

