NOVEMBER 1889 T0 MARCH 1890]

7anuary 23, 1890 Took Mr. Brunner to Mr. Murch’s where I rec-
ognized two of the cartouches cut out of the
grand inscription at Beni Hassan, and a tablet with the cartouches
of Pepi, which I judge comes from a tomb at Bersheh. These he
bought of Sidrach at Ekhmeem, who then had ﬁve or six Beni Hassan
cartouches and about ten others. He showed us a piece of glass with
the cartouche Nofer-Ka-ra‘, of the Sixth Dynasty probably, nearly
two thousand years older than that in the British Museum. Lottie
and the girls went to lunch with Aly Moorad’s wife and daughter and
we went to the races in the afternoon. Fat Mr. Pagnon, who keeps
the hotels, won that wherein the donkey’s rider must hold out a
spoon with an egg in it. Mrs. and Miss Barret, who had a letter from
Mrs. McKay of Paris, took tea with us and Mr. Brunner dinner.

fanuary 24, 1890 Mr. Gayet made a second call. Of the three

hundred sheets of his copy of The Temple of
Luxor, ready for printing, sixty were lost in the Ministry and he has
to compare the remainder with the temple in order to ﬁnd out which
and then recopy. Professor Sayce and his friend arrived and called
in the evening. He reports that at Bersheh the famous tomb of the
Colossus on the Sledge has been “smashed,” and that a very pretty
and perfect little tomb below it, half of which I once copied, has been
quite broken up and carried away”. Luckily he had copied the whole
of it.

yanuary 25, 1890 Little Libiad, called “the white” because he is

so black came to pose for Ned, who made a ﬁne
colored sketch of the infant barber. Insinger, who has been suffering
much from the cold in his growing house, has word from his Captain
at Assuan that he must send the boat’s papers, he knows not why.
M. Lefevre et M. de Baudrieul came to tea. Dora was at Murch's
when Sayce saw the Beni Hassan cartouches; she says he shivered.

r. Or of Nefer—Ka-ra of the XXIld or the XXVth dynasties (P).

2. F. LI. Grifﬁth and P. E. Newberry. “El Bersheh." Part 1. London. (1895). p. 3: “It was not until 1890
that the destroying hand again came upon them—this time in the shape of a native prospector for
antiquities. who did not scruple to cut out many square feet of scenes or inscriptions in order to secure a
few inches or sale, or simply to hack what he did not care to take away."

547

