NOVEMBER 1885 TO MAY 1886]

Thursday We came early to Keneh and while Maspero went

March I], 1886 to the Mudeereeyeh, the Grébauts and I passed

the day in the Temple of Denderah. I spent my time

upstairs and could only make plans of the walls and ceiling of two of

the six Osiris rooms; there is so much in them. Morel and the Gay

Lussacs went to the school in the morning and came to us in the
afternoon.

Mustapha Aga told me some days ago that he could not go to
Keneh for the money for his house, but should send his son Musta-
pha, who came to—day, and presented his papers including receipts,
to the Mudeer. The Mudeer said they were all right and gave them
to the clerk to ﬁle. Then he asked Mustapha if his father did not owe
the government something for taxes. The fact is that for years he as
Consul, resisted the payment of taxes on land.

BELIANEH The papers were brought and there were arrears of

twelve hundred pounds. Then the Moodeer politely
said he would telegraph to the Minister of Finance to know whether
he should pay the two hundred ninety pounds for the house, or
credit it on the tax account. Luxor will rejoice, for there are few peo-
ple there whom Mustapha has not made to bleed.

Friday To-day has been a “slipper-day,” that is, a day on

March 12, 1886 the boat. We came down very well to within sight

of our port, Belianeh, when we went upon a sand

bank for two hours. It is strange how much less we look at Egypt as
we come down; we are looking more at Europe.

I go on shore and Mohammed Hassan asks why I did not come
last year. Aboo Stayt, the terrible, has died in prison and Botros, he
of the fourteen thousand feddans, has built a new house.

ABYoos Maspero had said he would start for Abydos at
Saturday eight; I went on deck for that and found all were
March 13, I886 gone, all except Mme. and Mlle. Grébaut, who did
not go, as we were to take an eighty-cent ride to

Abydos and thence to Girgeh; this discouraged Grébaut from taking
his photo kit. So I waited a few minutes and had a pleasant ride over

377

