[CHAPTEREIGHT

CAIRO Lottie has struggled into a sort of dress and does
yum 21, 1889 not ﬁll it out. But she insists on starting next week
though we have a small boat with the cabins on the
lower deck, where we are likely to suffer much from lack of air. We
came in larger boats with cabins on the saloon deck and might go in
such a week later. She has all her pluck back again if not her strength,
and will not lose the week. She is just looking over the accumulated
W oman’s yournals and has found the paragraph about the meeting
in “banner town” of the State. We shall have to make quick work of
Paris and then have almost no time for Compton. I went day before
yesterday with Grébaut, who called for me in his tug, to see the
Geezeh Palace and he spent the afternoon showing me its splendors
and his plans. He has many good ideas and a railway from the river
to its gates. It is said to have cost forty million dollars. That evening
I heard Mr. Petrie at Dr. Grant’s tell of his winter’s work in the
Fayooml; he carries away a hundred boxes of spoil.

PARIS We had a very smooth passage over from Alexan-

7uly 9, I889 dria. Lottie stood it very well and I landed without

a swimming head, though the old Moeri: works her

screw through a cog wheel which grinds heads horribly. Dr. Worth-

ington came down to Alexandria with me Thursday night and he and
Mrs. Berkeley were to sail Monday, the ﬁrst.

Last Thursday we rested in Marseilles, Friday we came to Dijon
and Saturday afternoon to Paris where we found Victor thin and
anxious, as we were three-quarters of an hour behind time. The
house was in fairly good order and Victor had a comfortable breakfast
ready. Tuesday Francoise came in the morning, telegraphed for from
Etretat by her husband, who is frittering to-day and the house-
keeping machine is going on. Félicie, Mme. Billy and Mrs. Sexton
have been to see us and we have been to see nobody except Dora to
Félicie and dressmakers and Victor and I to see “the Angelus”2 this
morning. It is full of airand sentiment, awkward and earnest, but
surely has not the rank which a hundred and ten thousand dollars
has in picture prices. In the Hotel Drouot as the work of an un-

 

I. W. M. Flindera. Petrie. "Hawara. Biahmu and Arsinoe." London. 1889.
2. “The Angelua,” by the French painter Jean Francois Millet. (I814-1875.)

s36

