[CHAPTER FIVE

is right. But I am not managing this business; nor is anybody else. It
blunders along itself and when it would blunder rightly, the English

Cabinet interferes.
Toda left us Sunday to come again to us at Luxor I hope ......

Sunday after coaling we came on from Sioot as far as Tahtah;
Monday we continued, stopping at Soohag where I went with Koor-
sheedt, our Circassian chief of the Museum, to see his friend the
Moodeer, Husseyn Bey, who gave him some money for Anteekey and
me a bilingual stele to copy. It was from Ekhmeem and was made for a
a housemistress named Osiris! Afternoon we steamed over to Ekh-
meem, where we found M. Magnier from Tahtah visiting M. F ré-
nay. M. Frénay had bought for Maspero a great mass of Coptic
sermons‘, monk—history and Bible in the Theban dialect, from the
monks of the Red Convent, twenty miles southwest. The Abbé Amé-
lineau2 had been got up in Paris at considerable expense to capture
these and other Coptic parchments, but he tried to do it independent
of Maspero and for his own glory, and so came to grief. There is much
more to come of the dirty stuff. F rénay crawled and climbed into the
Library of the Convent which was very carefully concealed and ap-
proached only by a difﬁcult passage. Magnier has a wife and seven
children at the other mill at Tahtah and his twenty years in Egypt
have not harmed his health; he and his children contradict the gen—
eral verdict as to the Egyptian climate for Europeans.

The other day one of the coal hole covers was not on right and I
stepped through but caught myself on my hand with only a little
scraping of the thigh and wrenching of the shoulder. I did not tear my
trousers and this is important; for three or four days after the seven-
teen miles of horseback, I found two extra pistol pockets in my VVa—
terbury Watch trousers. One of the sailors told me he broke his rib in
that hole and Aly, Vassilli’s man, now employed by the school, fell in

an hour or two after me and is limping yet.

We are only six now. Bouriant you know of by my letters, years
ago. He is married and has a boy and a girl. He does much Coptic to

I. U. Bouriant, “Les Papyrus d'Akhmim” in “Mémoires de la Mission archéologique francaise au Caire.”
vol. I, 2. Paris. 1885. pp. 243—304. for a ﬁrst discovery of Coptic texts; G. Maspero' "Notes 5111' diﬂ'erents
points de grammaire et d'histoire" in “Recueil de travaux." vol. VIII. 1886. pp. 181—192.

2. E. Amélineau, “Fragments de la version thébaine de l'Ecriture" (Ancien Testament) in “Recueil de
travaux,”:vol. VII. 1885, pp. 197 et seq.

348

