FEBRUARY 1884 T0 MAY 1884.]

Wednesday and Thursday I corrected in Karnak Champollion’s
copy of Seti’s victories. To-day Aboo Gamb and fourteen companions
brought over a small pile of papyrus and a cofﬁn of a lady singer
Mersament,1 daughter of prince Osorkon, son of King Takelot. The
papyrus being a bad ritual as Maspero diagnosed it, he gave the men
their choice between it and the cofﬁn, and they of course took the
papyrus. I looked carefully over it, found some Demotic and some
Greek and offered them a hundred and twenty-ﬁve francs, which as
they want two hundred pounds, has not yet produced any results.
Mme. Maspero has read me six pages of English this evening and
she gets on swimmingly. We ﬁnd Amelia B. Edwards’ Thousand
Mile: Up the Nile? easier than Villiers Stuart’s last book, and Hero-
dotus easier than Miss Amelia.

Sunday It was hot and I went over to Karnak at night. I
March 23,1884 worked on the inscriptions, of which there are
many in hieroglyphics, Demotic, Greek and Phoe-
nician about the feet of pilgrims outlined on the roof stones of the
Temple of Khonsoo;3 I was almost inclined to follow their example.
This time none were square-toed. Mohammed the donkey—boy told
me he had been out with the Howaga Yussuf (Dulac) before dinner
and told him a story and that the Howaga Yussuf had written it
down, and verily Dulac is copying it out in fair Arabic this day.
Mohammed conﬁded to me that he knows ﬁve or six stories, all of
them sz'eers“ and that his father knows one it takes a quarter of the
night to tell you for two nights running. And night after night when I
go forward I hear the clear voice of Ahmed Effendi, the engineer,
reading the eighteen volume story ofAntar to the Captain, Aly Bey,
in his room, and I see Mohammed the Cook and others various,
squatted around the open hatchway above. I understand not a word,
but the spirit ofit is reﬂected heroic and triumphant from the faces of
these wretched cowards, not one of whom would dare go alone to
Karnak at night.

1. G. Maspero, “Notes sur quelques points de grammaire et d’histoire." § LXXIII. in “Zeitschrift fﬂr
ﬁgyptische Sprache." vol. XXI. 1885, p. 11; A Moret. “Sarcophages de l’époque bubastite a l’époque
saite" (Catalogue général du Musée du Caire). Cairo, 1913. pp. 290—298, no. 41035 and pl. XXXVI.

2. London. 1877; Leipzig. 1878. New York. 1888.

3. See Porter-Moss. “Topographical Bibliography." vol. II. Oxford. 1929. p. 83; Jean Capart. “Monuments
Egyptiens du Musée de Bruxclles," Brussels, 1901. pp. 15—18.

4. Kwiees—Arabic for ﬁne.

295

