180 unsure LIFE.

name for certainty. 'Where others saw painted the array of the Hours,
he perceived between each two the chain of Cause and Effect. Where
others saw altar ﬂames, he recognized the aspirations of the intellect.
Where others shrank from pictures of torture and dismemberment, he
calmly studied the conﬂicts of the intellect and soul. Where others
saw a range of mummy closets with folding doors, he gained ideas of
that succession of spheres through which the aspiring spirit has to pass,
before attaining the vital centre from which it came forth, and to which
it may, when werthy, return. Where the vulgar saw—what the priests
told them to see—“ an eternal‘ abode,” to which the deadking had
come from “the inn” of his own palace,‘-—he knew that here the dust
would, sooner or later, return to dust, while the spirit had returned to
Him who had given it forth. Josephus says that Pythagoras was the
most eminent of the heathens for wisdom and piety; and believes that
he would have spoken more wisely still on the .highest matters, if he
had been safe from the malice of the ignorant—The testimony of
Herodotus is this :1' “ These people,” the Egy tians, “ are the ﬁrst who
have advanced the doctrine that the soul 0 man is immortal: that,
when the body is dead, the soul enters always into that of some ani-
mal; and that, having thus passed successively into all kinds of terres-
trial, aquatic and aerial creatures, it returns into a human body, during
its act of birth: and that these different transmigrations take place in
the space of three thousand years. I know that some Greeks have
adopted this opinion,—some sooner, and some later; and that they
have made use of it as they thought proper. Their names are not
unknown to me; but I preserve silence upon them.”

If this old traveler, at once so reserved and so garrulous, had spoken
but here, the ﬁrst name doubtless, which he would have uttered, would
have been Pythagoras.

Among the many tombs open to us, we may choose one for a regu-
lar, however brief, examination. And the most attractive, without
question, to any reader whose interest in the subject has carried him
through this chapter, will be that discovered by Belzoni, about a quar-
ter of a century ago, whose occupant was Osirei, father' of Ramases
the Great.

The neighboring peasants observed, about the beginning of the pre-
sent century, a sinking of the soil in one of the hill sides in the Valley
of the Tombs. They pointed this out to successive travelers; and
Belzoni happily looked into the matter. He found a tomb extending
320 feet into the hill; and how much more, there is no saying, as the
earth had fallen, and barred further progress. Its depth‘ is great, as it
descends the whole way, sometimes by inclined planes, and sometimes
by staircases.

The ﬁrst thing we had to do was to plunge down a ﬂight of ruined
steps, to a perpendicular depth of 24 feet. This entrance was closed
up by masonry when Belzoni was brought to the spot. This staircase
landed us in a passage where the walls were covered with inscriptions

' Diodorus, I. 51. 1‘ Herod. II. 123.

