136 EASTERN Lin.

raised the glory of Egypt to its highest point. Some inscribe mere!
their names—their cartouches, which catch the eye on every han .
Some append to these the declaration that they came in pil rimage to
the gods of these holy places. Some carve a record of t e granite
blocks they have taken for their public works; and others leave a de-
claration of their victories over the Ethiopians. What an inestimable
country this is, where the very rocks by the wayside offer indisputable
materials of history to you as you pass by! '

The other remains on Biggeh are forlorn enough. Two columns
exist of a temple of the Ptolemies re-built upon a very old Pharaonic
foundation. Fra ments of sculpture lie about: and one pictured wall
forms the side 0 a sordid Arab but.“ The Christians have broken
away parts of two great sculptured blocks to lodge an arch, which
looks hideous. Wherever, in these two islands, the intaglios are ﬁlled
up with mud, and the reliefs and paintings covered with clay, it is the
work of the Christians, who took possession of the temples of the re-
gion for their worship.

I could not leave the high grounds of this island while the sun lighted
themap-like expanse below and around me. The chaotic rocks, the
desert, river, and distant settlements would have absorbed me at any
other time: but now, to the south, lay the Holy Island, beyond the
gold-crowned palms which waved below my feet, and beyond the piled
rocks and clear shadowy river which interposed. The plan of its edi-
ﬁces was clear under my eye; and' their superb range was fully dis-
played, as the sunlight was leaving théir colonnades, moment by mo-
ment, and at last lingerin onl on the summits of the propyla. When
the last my melted into t e g ow which succeeds the sunset, we hast-
ened down to the boat, and rowed over to Philaa, to the eastern cove,
below the hypasthral temple, where we had moored this day fortnight,
on our way up. There was still time, before the twilight was gone, for
a run up to the temples. I came down again, amazed at the vastness
of the sculptures on the prOpyla, and oppressed by a sense of the mass
and the intricacy of the ediﬁces. Ifelt,as I had done twice before, lost
among them. But this perplexity was dispelled, and the whole ar-
rangement made clear, by the careful study of the next day.

We all rose early on the morning of the 13th of January; and by
half-past seven, we were up at the temples, having breakfasted, and
sent away our kandjia, to descendthe Cataract, and transfer the stores
to the dahabieh.

I spent the ﬁrst two hours quite alone—setting out to learn the plan
of the temples, but lingering at almost every step, impressed by the
majesty of the appareil of worship, or bawitched by the beauty of the
details of the adornments.

The confusion of temples of which travelers complain cannOt arise
from their number. The remains consist of the great temple of Isis
with its accessories: a little chapel to Athor; a western chapel where
the god Nilus is much honored; a little chapel, modern,_to Esculapius;
the hy mthral'temple vulgarly called Pharaoh’s Bed; and various edi-
ﬁces of? approach from the river. This is not so much to learn! The

