500 lumns ran.

a lively stream. There were few or no people near but goalie-d:
tending their immense ﬂocks upon the hills.

We were now only a few hours distant from Baalbec, and on the
next evening (May 5th), we were to rest under the walls of the gran:
Temple of the Sun. The ﬁrst few miles of our ride in the morning
were charming,—-winding beside the streams, and over grassy levels.
and across fallow ﬁelds, till we entered upon a barer region of limestone
hills,—the outer skirts of the Antilibanus range.-—I believe travelers
usually approach Baalbec from the south, bavthe Bekaa : and sum
say that that is the most imposing approach. e reached it by a lateral
pass, from the southeast, looking down upon it from aconsiderahle dis-
tance. Travelers always stand up for their own way of ﬁrst approach-
inga great object,—-knowing that to be very ﬁne, and knowin no
other: and I might say that, from what I saw of the aspect of bet.
the second day, from the Bekaa,I should think the descent open '3:
better, for a ﬁrst view, than an approach on the same level. But there
is no saying, as we can have but one ﬁrst impression ; and I will only
declare that we were quite satisﬁed with our ﬁrst view of Baalbec.

The Bekaa is the Valley, sometimes called Hollow Syria, lying be-
tween the Antilibanus range and the loftier Lebanon. It is watered by
the Lietani river,—believed to be the ancient Leontes, which rise a
little above Baalbec, and flows in a nearly straight course, till it reaches
the Mediterranean above the ancient Tyre. It was by this Hollow Way
that the ancient armies used to march, whose expeditions so larger
affected the fate of the Hebrews throughout their residence in Pales-
tine. The Syrians were wont to march down this valley to their sieges
of Samaria; and it was by this way that the Egyptians. landing at
Tyre, came up against Damascus. This conspicuous and much fre-
quented valley was a ﬁtting place for the great Temple of the Sun :—
both for the honor of the god, and for the convenience of native and
foreign worshipers. The ediﬁces of Baalbec are situated on one side
of the valley, which is here about seven miles wide. They stand in-

deed near the base of the eastern mountains.

VV e had seen the Bekaa at intervals during the morning, when the
' hills on our left opened enough to disclose what was behind them.
The aspect of the eastern declivities of Lebanon, on the other side of
the valley, was very remarkable. The summits were streaked with
snow; below which the heights were of the usual mountain coloring
of gray, purple and green. Below, their skirts were too variegated
and gaudy for beauty, the slopes being white,‘ shaded into scarlet and
crimson, which ran into the softer tints above. The Bekaa fooked dim
and uniform, and as if it must be as sultry as the plain of the Jordan in
summer.—We turned to the left at last, down upon the Bekaa. and
came upon a sudden view of Baalbec below us,--its six gigantic co-
lumns standing up above the great mass of ruins. The trees were few
and scattered, instead of being like the woods we had seen investing
all the towns, from Damascus onwards.

' From whence the name is derived,—Lebanon signifying White.

