206 mean use.

by the way, angular and regular ﬁgures are pointedly preferred ;—and
the ladies’ hair, disordered and ﬂying about in their sports, has tails and
tassels, very like what may have been seen in London drawing-rooms
in no very remote times. The incident which most reminds one of the
antiquity of these paintings is that the name of bird, beast. ﬁsh or arti- ‘
ﬂcer is written up over the object delineated. It is the resourcer—not
needed here, however, of the artist who wrote on his picture “ this is
the man,”—-“ this is the monkey.” Another barbarism is the same that
Lhave mentioned elsewhere ;—that the great man, the occupant of the
tomb, has his atness signiﬁed by bigness, beings giant among mid-
dle-sized peopler.e ~ ‘

We spent four hours in the diligent study of these tombs; and I ran
over the note-worthy nine once more, to keep them all distinct in In
memory. The wind was so high that we could not leave the bank ti
after sunset; so we had excellent leisure for noting down on the spot
what we had seen.

Our letters had lately told us of snow eighteen feet deep in York-
shire; and at this date (4th February) I find in my journal that our
days were “like August da s on Windermere.” The thermometer
stood at 74° in the shaded ca in in the middle of the day. It had been
down to 40°, one cold morning, up the river: but I had never felt any
degree of cold that was really uncomfortable; and rarely any heat that
could be seriously complained of. The ﬁles were troublesome for some
hours in the middle of the day, so as to compel us to sit on deck instead
of in the cabin; but they let us alone in the mornings and evenings,
which were the only times when I, for one, cared to be in the cabin.

While we stopped at a village for milk, one afternoon, a man came
down to us for medical advice. I used to think it one of the prettiest
sights we saw when, on such occasions, Mr. E. examined the case with
as much care as he would have given to a brother’s, and Mr. Y. ad-
ministered whatever aid could be given. Such oﬂices cannot but abate
Mohammedan prejudices against the Christians; and I trust all who go
up the Nile endeavor to do their part, with prudence and earnest kind-
ness. Without much uacking,—without danger of doing real harm,—
some little relief may given by simple medicines, and yet more per-
haps by sending away the patient with hope in his heart. Any advice
or medicine which he may obtain from English travelers is likely to be
safer and better than what he will have at home; and at any rate, he
may be granted the cordial of sympathy and good-will.

he wind to-night was high; and it so jostled us against the bank
as to destroy sleep. In the morning we passed another founder-ed
vessel, whose masts just showed themselves above the water. The
river was now less interesting to us than at any previous time. The
crocodiles were absent; and the birds were scarce] more numerous
. than at home. The water had sunk so much, and t e hills had so re-
treated, that the shores looked very ﬂat. Yet we felt rather heavy at
heart when we recognized objects,--as the False Pyramid today,—
which told us that we were drawing near to Cairo. So far from being
“ bored to death with the Nile,” as we had been oﬁen threatened, we

