76 smart urn.

all the work of her own house. At home, I had seen one extreme of
power, in the meager helpless beings whose prerogative lies wholly in
the world of ideas: here I saw the other, where the dominion was
wholly over the power of outward nature: and I must say Ias heartily
wished for the introduction of some good bodily education at home as
for intellectual enlightenment here. I have as little hope of the one as
of the other; for there is at present no natural necessity for either:
and nothing short of natural compulsion will avail. Gymnastic exer-
cises and ﬁeld sports are matters only of institution and luxury—good
as far as they go, but mere conventional triﬂes in the training of a man
or a nation: and, with all our proneness to toil, I see no prospect of '
any stimulus to wholesome general activity arising out of our civiliza-
tion. I wish that, in return for our missions to the heathen, the hea-
thens would send missionariBs to us, to train us to a grateful use of
our noble natural endowments—of our powers of sense and limb, and
the functions which are involved in their activity. I am conﬁdent that
our morals and our intellect would gain inestimably by it. There is
no saying how much vicious propensity would be checked, and intel-
lectual activity equalized in us by such a reciprocity with those whose
gifts are at the other extreme from our own.

Throughout the four hours of our ascent, I saw incessantly that
though much is done by sheer force,--by men enough pulling at a
r0pe strong enough,—some other requisites were quite as essential ;—
great forecast, great sagacity; much nice management among currents,
and hidden and threatening rocks; and much knowledge of the forces
and subtilties of wind and water. The men were sometimes plunging,
to heave 06' the boat from a spike or ledge; sometimes swimming to
a distant rock, with a rope between their teeth, which they carried
round the boulders ;—then squatting upon it, and holding the end of
the rope with their feet, to leave their hands at liberty for hauling.
Sometimes a man dived to free the cable from a catch under water;
then he would spring on board, to pole at any critical pass : and then
ashore, to join the long ﬁle who were pulling at the cable. Then there
were their patience and diligence—very remarkable when we went
round and round an e'ddy many times, after all but succeeding, and
failing again and again from the malice of the wind. Once this hap-
pened for so long, and in such a boisterous eddy, that we began to
wonder what was to be the end of it. Complicated as were the cur-
rents in this spot, we were four times saved from even grazing the
rocks, when, after having nearly got through, we were borne back, and
swung round to try again. The ﬁfth time, there came a faint breath
of wind, which shook our sail for a moment, and carried us over the
ridge of foam. What a shout there was when we turned into still
water! The last ascent but one appeared the most wonderful,—the
passage was, twice over, so narrow,—barely admitting the kandjia,—
the promontory of rock so sharp, and the gush of water so strong ; but
the big rope, and the mob of haulers on the shore and the islets heaved
us up steadily, and as one might say, naturally,—as if the boat took
her course advisedly.

