um new. I 203

It is in one of these caves, however, that some peOple have fancied
they have found a procession of Joseph’s brethren. It may be natural
for those who go from a Christian count , with little other antecedent
interest in Egypt than its being the a e of Joseph and his descend-
ants, to look for Hebrew personages on the monuments. But I think
such travelers should take some little pains to reﬂect and observe before
they say that they have found them.- A very little observation would
show that the Egyptians never put on their monuments anything that

ey were ashamed of. There are no traces of the Shepherd Race;

here are certainly none of the Hebrews as a nation—except where
the cities of Judah and the captives of Jerusalem come in among the

ictures of Sheshonk’s conquests. There was no reason for celebrat-
lng them while they were neither enemies nor captives, but only the
lowest workin class in the country. Still less reason was there for
representing 31s brethren of Joseph, who came as individuals or a
family, and not as representatives of any nation, oreven tribe. It is
thus improbable beforehand that the Hebrews should appear on any
early monuments. , ‘

In the next place, the procession here conjectured to have been one
of Hebrew offerers, can be shown, i think, to be a very different set of
peOple indeed. I will presently explain why. But, further, if the
discoveries of Lepsius and the conclusions of Bunsen are right, in re-
lation to the dates of the Three great Periods of Egyptian history (and
it would take much power and learning to overthrow them), this parti-
cular tomb was painted a thousand years before Joseph was born. This
tomb bears date in the reign of Osirtasen, who is now believed, on new
evidence produced by Dr. Lepsius, to be the Sesortasen of the twelfth
d nasty of the Monuments; the Sesonchosis of the same dynasty of
Nlhnetho. ACcording to the same evidence, the Shepherd Kings came
in‘ in the middle of the thirteenth dynasty, remained 926 years, and
wage then driven out by the great Pharaohs of the eighteenth dynasty;
un er one of whom Moses led away the Hebrews. The Septua int
declares their residence ‘in Egypt to have lasted 215 years; the e-
brew Chronology gives 430 years. Whichever be preferred, it is clear
that this tomb must have been shut up many hundred years before Jo-
seph was born.

This tomb,-—the twenty-ninth from the South, and second from the
Northr—has a vaulted portico, with two fluted pillars ;—beautiful Doric
pillars they would have been called, if erected many centuries later.
Throughout its chambers, its basement is painted a deep red ; and on
this basement, and the architraves and everywhere, the hieroglyphics
are green; the effect of which is extremely good.—-The interior cham-
ber contains the pedestal of a statue. Two longitudinal architraves
divide the ceiling of this outer chamber into three portions, whichare
vaulted, and richly starred. There are three pits in this chamber; and
there were four pillars: but they are gone.

It is in this painted chamber that the procession occurs which many
have supposed, and all have striven to suppose, might be the arrival of

Joseph’s brethren. At each end of the row stands a great man. (There

