488 mm.

set from Christianity that has yet been seen: not only from the dam
tion and history of the faith, but because its prevalence.——widerth
that of any other faith,—(or any other familiarly known to a.)-
shows what must be its adaptation to human nature, and, in thaghot
indispensable must be its appearance in the history of mam—Here in
diversity of faiths, in this region which has originated none! 1M
of an inﬂux of thought from various regions, issuing in a freshd
invigorating faith, we have here a cluster of religious sects, none ml-
municating with any others, and none, therefore, deriving life from my
new source. From the worship of Baal and Astarte to the ritualuf
Mohammed, all exist still: and we have only to rejoice that a rel'gil
so good, in comparison with the rest, as that of Mohammed, prevﬂ
over the others to the extent that it does.

This latest and most prevalent faith seemed almost too modern It
be attended to this ﬁrst day, when, with every advance into the reewﬂ
of this awful old mountain region,—this Antilibanus, of which we sad

to read in our childhood almost as of the world before the ﬂood. '9 ,

seemed to be stepping over into the remote ages. Ascending from out

table-land to anather, we came out, late in the afternoon, upon “3!,
high ground, where the soil was wet, the crops poor, the wind my 1

cold, and the enclosing mountains dim and dreary with haze and not
As I repeatedly turned my horse to look behind me and to the left.“it
impression of what I saw was very awe-striking. Djebel Shaikh
whose snowy summit had appeared sky-high all the way from!!!
further verge of the Plain of Esdraélon, now seemed to have subs

to a common hill; so did the chain rise and swell as it retired north“ I

eastward. Shrouded and ghost-like, the mountains closed us in:
as I gazed at them, I longed to look into their hidden valleys and ﬂ'

ceases, to see how human faith was faring :—to see the shrines of Baal. ‘

and the smoke of his altars among the rocks; to hear from some phl‘
form on the heights, the bell of the Maronite convent chapel :-—10 .
in upon the vigils of the Druses, as their initiated class, the late":-
gents, held the mysteries; and to see, in some Mohammedan villa?

on the uplands, the pious families already in preparation for joining g

the next caravan, when it should set forth from Damascus for Mekkeh'
The mountain chains of the earth retain in every way their correct?"
tive function. If they preserve untouched and unwasted their mam"

of mineral wealth, their treasure of gems, their accumulated snow 2

and the unsunned sources of all rivers, not less do they harbor”?d
guard the characteristics of the tribes of men, and their conﬁding de-
posits of their respective faiths.

We stapped on a ridge, misty and cold, where there is a poor hw‘
let beside N imrod’s Tomb. The great Hunter, said to be the ﬁrst 9‘
men who was made a king and wore a crown, is declared to be 9
lying under some stones, about three hundred yards from our test!-
This is doubtless quite as true as that a building close at band, who”
ruined walls are composed of very large stones, is Nimrod’s wile;
It appears that the tradition about the tomb is really old; and lb,“
ruins which have lost their names are all called after the lOIDbr-Th”

