mm. 149

In the afternoon, we plunged back into the times of the old Pharaohs,
—-into the early centuries of the Third Period. We went over the
quarries at Silsileh, and saw excavations which might almost make us
think that the whole human race had come here for building material,
from the founding of Babel to the arrivalof the lazy Arabs. 0n the
east side I wandered long and far among lanes and areas in the rock,
where the sides spring up like the walls of a mine, or retire in sharp cut
gradation, to a mountainous height. All the variety I came upon in this
silent wilderness of cut stone, was the tracks of a hymna in the sand,
and the marks in the rock of the tools of three or four thousand years
ago. Some of these marks were evidently for the purpose of trying
tools. These marks remain; but we long in vain to know what the
tools were like. Others seem to have been made in sport; perhaps in:
illustration of some story the workmen were telling and listening to,
while eating their lentil pottage. 0n the western bank we found much
more ;— ottoes, pillars, tablets, niches, statues, sculptures and paint-
ings,—al of very ancient date. We have the conquering Pharaoh‘—
Horus, successor of AmunOph III., overriding the Ethiopians, receivin .
the captives, whose arms are tied in all manner of we s,-—some wit
the elbows above their heads ;—and holding groups 0 the foe b the
hair, threatening to cut off their heads. We see him borne in a s rine
on men’s shoulders, with ﬁles of soldiers in attendance, and the lion
pacing along beside the royal chariot. In'another place we have the
most solemn representation those old artists knew how to offer ;—the
kin receiving the symbol of Life from the Supreme god.

e historian revels among such memorials as these. The invari-
able practice here -of sculpturing the names and titles of the kings, and
often of their chief ofﬁcers; and the descriptions of the people con-
quered; and the names of oﬂ‘erers as well as gods, make research here
a self-rewarding eﬂ'ort, very unlike the painful and uncertain specula-
tion which is all that can be attempted among the antiquities of more
modern countries. To the historian, such places as these are a glo-
rious ﬁeld: but they are not less interesting to the moralist or the poet.
What a proof it is of the sanctity of the work of temple-building that the
very quarries were consecrated to the gods! Truly, they were a religious
people, these old Egyptians :—-receiving their children as from the gods;
bringing their children to the temples in bands to make offerings; in-
voking the Judge of the dead at their banquets; presenting their con-
quests as sacriﬁce to the heavenly powers; and consecrating their work
of temple-building by ﬁrst making the very rocks holy which were to
furnish the material. There is a great congregation of gods here, re-
ceiving offerings from several Pharaohs. Savak is the local deity:
and the god Nilus holds a higher rank than usual: some think because
the river here narrows between the rocks, and runs with a strong cur-
rent: and others because much of the stone out here for distant works,
was committed to the char e of N ilus for transport. The tablets bear
some inscriptions of great istorical value; and particularly a record of
Assemblies held in various years of the reign of the Great Ramases.
What these Assemblies were, in their object and details, perhaps some

