rams. , 59

sage is almost the same as some entries in my journal, made when

had never heard of the Bagdad physician. He speaks of Memphis,
as seen in his day, and as, alas! one fears it will be seen no more.
“Notwithstanding the 1mmense extent of this city, and its high anti-
quity: notwithstanding all the vicissitudes of the different governments
under which it has passed: notwithstanding the efforts that various
nations have made to destroy it in obliterating the minutest traces, ef-
facing its smallest remains, carrying off the materials, even to the very
stones, of which it was constructed; laying waste its ediﬁces, mutilating
the ﬁgures which adorned them; and notwithstanding all that four thou-
sand years and more have been able to add to such causes of destruction,
these ruins yet oﬁ'er to the eye of the spectator such a combination of
wonders as confounds his understanding, and as the most eloquent man
would vainly attempt to describe. The longer he contemplates, the
more admiration he feels: and each returning glance at these ruins
causes new ecstasy. Scarcely has the spectacle suggested one idea to
the mind of the spectator, when it overpowers it by a greater; and
when he thinks he has obtained a perfect knowledge of what is before
him, he presently learns that his conceptions are still far below the
truth.“ A yet older traveler, Herodotus, says the same thing more
brieﬂy: “I shall enlarge upon what concerns Egypt, because it con-
tains more wonders than any other country; and because there 18 no
other country where we may see so many works whichare admirable,
and beyond all expression. ”1'

It 18 not the vastness of the buildings which strikes one ﬁrst at El-
Uksur,-—vast as they are; it is the marvel of the sculptures with which
they are covered ,—so o,ld so spirited, and so multitudinous. It is
Homer, alive before one’ 8 eyes. And what a thought it is, to one
standing here, how long this very sculpture has been an image and a
thought to great minds placed one far behind another 1n the stages of
human history! Herodotus, who here seems a modern brother-tra-
veler, stood on this spot, and remembered the Iliad as we were now
remembering 1t. He spoke of Homer, his predecessor by four hundred
years, as we speak of those who lived in the crusading times. And
Homer told of wars which were the same old romance to the people
of his time as the crusades are to us. And at the time of these wars,
this Thebes was a city of a thousand years , and these battle-pictures
now before our eyes were antiquities, as our cathedrals are to us.
Here we were standing before one of the “hundred gates” through
which Homer says the Theban warriors passed in and out; and
on the ﬂanks of this gateway were sculptured the achievements
of the ancestors of these warriors. There are the men and horses
and chariots, as if in full career,—as full of life as if painted, and
painted 1n a modern time! The stones of the ediﬁce are parting in
many places . and these battle-ﬁgures extend over the cracks, almost
uninjured by the decay. These graven epics will last some time
longer, though the stone records will give way before the paper.

' Relation de l’Egypt. Livre I. oh. 4. 1‘ Herod. II. 35.

f

