tone or m was. 489

doors, and sarcophagi, very narrow, modern looking, and (at least, one)
covered with small sculpture,—ﬁowers and fruit. ,

We asked permission to go to the top of the Governor’s house, for
the sake of obtaining the best view that can be had from without of the
Mosque of Omar. This palace is actually on the site of Fort Anto-
nia; and it was strange to look down from it into the Temple inclosure,
and think that both Temple and palace are preserving their function in
such changed hands. We were seated on the roof with much civility,
and coffee was sent us; and we took our time about this last gaze upon
Moriah. The Mosque and its appurtenances are truly very ﬁne—gay
and graceful in its elaborate structure; and the springing arches of the
avenues to its platform; and the arcades round the circuit walls, where
the priests’ houses are; and the row of cypresses, with worshipers at
prayer beneath them—every incident conveying the sense of the cheer-
fulness and lightness of a ritual and predestinarian religion. As we
were turning into the Governor’s house, and I had my thoughts full of
Pilate and his dreaming wife, and Peter at the ﬁre below, and the
scenes which passed in the Judgment Hall, the voice of the Muezzin
calling to prayer fell upon my ear. He was in the gallery of the
minaret close at hand, at the corner of the inclosure of the Mosque of
Omar. The pathetic cry sounded over the space, and thrilled on the
unaccustomed ear; but how much less «moving and sweet is it than an-
other summons once heard here—the call to the “weary and heavy-
laden !”

On the last week-day, we were much in the bazaars, making pur-
chases in preparation for our long ride to Damascus. Four soldiers
and a citizen came to help us in our bargaining, which made it very
amusin . Neither they nor any one else seemed to have anything to
do; and we saw them to great advantage—playing with snakes on the
shop-board, or smoking, or simply staring at us. While my compan-
ions were groaning over the hardships of the pavement, I felt that I
would not exchange the beauty of the streets for any pavement what-
ever. The eye was gratiﬁed at every turn by the deep arches, vaults,
interiors, weedy old walls, the very handsome people, the black sha-
dows, and pencils or ﬂoods of light.

We spent that Saturday evening very pleasantly at the Consul’s,
meeting some members of the Mission, the extraordinary old lady who
took such good care of herself on board the steamer on the Mabmoo—
dieh Canal, and a party of officers from the English brig Harlequin,
then lying oﬂ' Beyrout. From these ofﬁcers we heard a world of Eu-
ropean news, after our long wandering in African and Asian deserts;
and in one of them I found a member of a family of old friends in m
native city. It was strange eno h, after talking over old Norwic
and its ways, and the state of the ying O’Connell, and various doings
in Parliament, to walk home through the streets of Jerusalem, and see
the moon hanging above the Mount of Olives.

Our last day, Sunday, was very quiet. We walked only to the
church ; but we took a ride towards Bethlehem, to try our new horses;
the horses which carried us to Damascus ﬁrst, and afterwards over the

