266 us'rsms use.

The Europeans may see, when startled by the state of Egypt, that vir-
tual slavery is indispensably required by the practice of polygamy;
virtual proprietorship of the women involved, without the obligations
imposed by actual proprietorship; and cruel Oppression of the men -
who should have been the husbands of these women. And again, the
Carolina planter, who knows- -as well as any Egyptian that polygamy
is a natural concomitant of slavery, may see in the state of Egypt and
the Egyptians what his country and his children must come to, if either
of those vile arrangements is permitted which necessitates the other.

It is scarcely needful to say that those benevolent persons are mis-
taken, who believe that slavery 1n Egypt has been abolished by the
Pasha, and the importation of slaves effectually prohibited. Neither
the Pasha nor any other human power can abolish slavery while poly-
gamy is an institution of the country, the proportion of the sexes re-
maining in Egypt what it is, there and everywhere else.

The reason assigned by Montesquieu for polygamy throughout the
East has no doubt something in it :-—that women become so early
marriageable that the wife “cannot satisfy the needs of the husband’s
mind and heart: and that therefore he must have both a bride and a
companion of whom he may make a friend. How little there is in
this to excuse the polygamy of Egypt may be seen by an observation
of the state of things there and in Turkey, where the same religion
and natural laws prevail as in Egypt. In Egypt, the difﬁculty would be
great ofﬁnding a wife of any age who could be the friend ofa man of any
sense: and in Turkey, where the wives are of a far higher order, poly-
gamy is rare, and women are not married so young. It is not usual
there to ﬁnd such disparity of years as one ﬁnds in Egypt between the
husband and his youngest wife. The cause assigned by Montesquieu
is true in connection with a vicious state of society: but it is not insu-
perable, and it will operate only as long as it is wished for. If any
inﬂuence could exalt the ideas of marriage, and improve the training of
women in Egypt, it would soon be seen that men would prefer marry-
ing women of nearly their own age, and would naturally remain com-
paratively censtant: but before this experiment can be tried, parents
must have ceased to become restless when their daughter reaches
eleven years old, and afraid of disgrace if she remains unmarried long
after that.

I was told, while at Cairo, of one extraordinary family where there
is not only rational intercourse and conﬁdence at home, and some re-
laxation of imprisonment, but the young ladies read l—and read French
and Italian! I asked what would be the end of this: and my inform-
ant replied that whether the- young ladies married or not, they would
sooner or later sink down, he thought, into a state even less contented
than the ordinary. There could be no sufﬁcient inducement for se-
cluded girls, who never saw anybody wiser than themselves, to go on
reading French and Italian books within a certain range. For want of
stimulus and sympathy, they would stop; and then, ﬁnding them-
selves dissatisﬁed among the nothings which ﬁll the life of other wo-
men, they would be very unhappy. The exceptional persons under a

