426 max mm.

in returning. The wind did not often favor them; and once it blew
such a squall that they threw overboard whatever came to hand: and
the ﬁrst thing that the servant threw over was their only cask of fresh
water. They were now compelled to row for their lives, to reach the
Jordan before they perished with thirst; but the sun scorched them
from a cloudless sky, and the air was like that of a furnace. When
Costigan could row no further, his servant made some coffee from the
water of the lake: and then they lay down in the boat to die. But
the man once more roused himself, and by man eﬂ’orts brought the
boat to the .head of the lake. They lay helpless for a whole day
on that homing shore, unable to do more than throw the salt water
over each other from time to time. The next morning, the ser-
vant crawled away, in hopes of reaching Rihhah, which he did with
extreme diﬂiculty. He sent Costigan’s horse down to the shore,
with a supply of water. The poor young man was alive; and he was
carried to Jerusalem in the coolness of the night. He was taken care
of in the Latin convent there; but he died in two days. During
those hours of lingering, he never spoke of his enterprise; and not
a note concerning it was ever found among his effects. Any know-
ledge that he might have gained has perished with him; and no
reliable information could be obtained from his servant. Costigan’s
grave is in the Armenian burying-ground ; and there I saw the stone
which tells his melancholy story. He died in 1835.—Another victim
to Dead Sea enterprise has perished since we were there ;-—I believe
from drought and other hardship: and now there is a rumor of a new
expedition for this year. It is difﬁcult to imagine why it should not
succeed. if the arrangements are made with any prudence. If a
decked boat can really be conveyed to the Lake; and if there are
comrades enough in her to divide the labor and cheer each other; and
if they understand the management of a boat in a gusty lake, and are
well supplied with provisions and water,—conditions indispensable to
every enterprise of the kind,—one does not see why they should fail.
I am not aware that any accidents have happened from the difﬁculty of
the navigation of the Dead Sea, or from any singular causes of peril.
The excessive heat may be avoided by choosing the most favorable
season of the year; and it must be possible to take provisions and
water enough, supposing the Lake to be of the largest extent yet con-
jectured. Some modern scientiﬁc travelers, who have surveyed it
from various surrounding heights, declare its length not to exceed
thirty miles: while Josephus says it is 72%, and Pliny 100 miles
long. Its basin has probably contracted in length, in the course of ages.

There appears to be no satisfactory evidence, as to whether any ﬁsh
are to be found in the Dead Sea. Our guides said that some small
black ﬁsh have been seen there; but others deny this. A dead ﬁsh has
been found on the shore near the spot where the Jordan enters the lake;
but this might have been cast up by the overflow of the river. It is
said that small birds do not ﬂy over this lake, on account of the delete-
rious nature of its atmosphere. About small birds I cannot speak; but
I saw two or three vultures winging their way down it obliquely.——As

