216 nsnur an.

the temples and congregations of the Greek and Latin churches show.
Amidst these natural regrets remains the comfort that the great govern-
ing Ideas of mankind,—the guiding lights of the human intellect,—
have never failed, and have scarcely suffered eclipse. The great Ideas
of Moral Obligation and strict retribution. of the supreme desirableness
of moral good, and the eternal “ beauty of holiness,” pass from system
to system, immortalizing all with which they assimilate, and ﬁnally an-
nihilating all else, dispensing the best blessings that men have ever
received, and promising an increase of them in all time to come.

There was nothing else to be seen about this buried city but a tomb
or two—a sarcophagus here—a mummy-case there. On our return to
the river, we saw sights which did not tend to raise the spirits after
the depressing inﬂuence of the aspect of old Memphis. We fell in
with a wedding procession which was a sad antic exhibition. We saw
a great number of men at work upon the causeway which crosses the
plain; and a large portion of their work consisted in carrying soil in
frail-baskets, and scooping out the earth with their hands. Such is the
state of manners and art on the spot where Herodotus held counsel
with the wise men of the world, and where the greatest works of Man’s
hands were reared by means of science and art of which the world is
not now capable !

 

CHAPTER XIX.

VISIT TO THE PYRAMIDS.—ASCENT OF THE GREAT PYRAMID—IN-
TERIOR—TRADITIONS AND HISTORY ABOUT THE PYRAMIDS.-—
THE SPHINX.—FAREWELL TO ANCIENT EGYPT.

Tm: day was come which I dreaded—the day of our expedition to
the Great Pyramids. I dreaded it, because [feared a sort of disap-
pointment most difﬁcult to bear—that of failing in the sight-seeing of
the day. Since arriving at Thebes,l had not been well; and I had no
reason for conﬁdence in my strength, in a place and enterprise so new.
I had made up my mind not to he disconcerted if I should have to re-
turn without having been either up or into the Pyramid; but I was
sorry to open my eyes upon the sunrise that mornin . [went over in
my mind all the stories I knew of persons who had ailed, and felt that
I had no better title to success than they. My comfort was in the
Sphinx. ‘ I should see that, at all events. It did not mend the matter
that‘I found that a messenger was sent to Cairo for our letters. Three
of us had had no letters of a later date than the 5th of November; and
this was the 9th of February. I knew that the winter at home was a
dreadful one-—for weather, sickness and distress; and never, I think,
was I so anxious about letters from home, or so afraid to receive them.
Whatever they might be, however, they would be awaiting me on my
return.

We set out for Geezeh at half-past eight, on ﬁne handsome asses, so

