134 lunar! use.

I was struck by the extraordinary grace of some of the objects about
this temple. The lam used in the oﬂbrings to the deities is beauti-
ful;-—a delicate hand olding a cup from which the ﬂame issues;
while an oriﬁce at the elbow-end of the lamp is receiving the oil.—In
one of the groups in the adytum,‘I saw the ﬁrst instance I had met
with (except in the rude sculptures of Garf Hoseyn) of a departure
from the severity of attitude usually observed. The union of the deities
in the reception of homage is marked by the arm of the one hanging
over the shoulder of the other.

We are told by Sir G. Wilkinson that this temple has been the abode,
at some time, of a Mohammedan hermit.‘ Some have supposed that
the Christians have been here, obliterating the sculptures. I saw no
traces of them; and I think the clouding-over of the paintings is no
more than may be accounted for by lapse of years, and, possibly, a less
dry situation than that of many of the old monuments. We must re-
member that this temple is more than three thousand years old.

On leaving the shadowy speos, I found there was still daylight
enough for a survey of the renowned great temple of Kalibhsheh. I
was glad to go over it, and admire its magniﬁcence, and the elegance
of many parts; and be amazed at its vastness; but it is too modern to
interest as much here. It was founded and carried on—(not quite to
completiorg—by one after another of the Cesare: and it is therefore
not truly gyptian. The, most interesting circumstance to me was
that here we could form some judgment of the effect of the Egyptian
color-decoration: for here there were two chambers in ﬁne reserva-
tion, except where water had poured down from the massive ion-head
spouts (Roman) and had washed away the colors. The relief to the
eye of these strips of pure sculpture was very striking. My conclu-
sion certainly was, from the impression given by these two chambers,
that, however valuable color may be for bringing out the details, and
even the perspective, of sculptured designs, any large a gregate of it a.
has a very barbaric appearance.—Still, we must not ju ge of the old
Egyptian painting by this Roman specimen. The disk of Isis is here
painted deep red,—the color of the ordinary complexion. The pale
green and brilliant blue of the ancient times are present; and I saw
here, and here only, a violet or plum-color.

As for the rest, this temple is a heap of magniﬁcent ruin; magniﬁ—
cent for vastness and richness; but not for taste. One pillar standing
among .many overthrown,——rich capitals tappled down among rough
stones; and such mounds of fragments as make no wonder what force
could have been used to cause such destruction,—these are the interest
of this temple. It may be observed, too, that the adytum has no ﬁgure
at the end, and that it appears never to have been ﬁnished. It is a
singular spectacle,—the most sacred part unﬁnished, while the capitals
of the outer columns, with their delicate carvings of vine-leaves and
tendrils twining among the leaves of the doum palm, are overthrown
and broken! ‘

- Wilkinson’s Modern Egypt and Thebes, II. p. 313, (note.)

