74 smart urn.

a moment it was now, when we trod the soil, as sacred to wise old
races of men as Mecca now to the Mohammedan, or Jerusalem to the
Christian ; the huge propyla, the sculptured walls, the colonnades, the
hypmthral' temple all standing, in full majesty, under a ﬂood of moon-
light! The most sacred of ancient oaths was in my mind all the
while, as if breathed into me from without ;—the awful oat “ By Him
who sleeps in Philce.” Here, surrounded by the imperishable Nile,
sleeping to the everlasting music of its distant Cataract, and watched
over by his Isis, whose temple seems made to stand for ever, was the
beneﬁcent Osiris believed to lie. There are many Holy Islands scat- .
tered about the seas of the world : the very name is sweet to all ears:
but no one has been so long and so'deeply sacred as this. The waters
all round were, this night, very still; and the more suggestive were
they of the olden age when they afforded a path for the processions
of grateful worshipers, who came from various points of the mainland,
with their lamps, and their harps, and their gifts, to return thanks for
the harvests which had sprung and ripened at the bidding of the god.
One could see them coming in their boats, there where the last western
light gleamed on the river: one could see them land at the staps at
the end of the colonnade: and one could imagine this great group of
temples lighted up till the prominent sculpture of the walls looked al-
most as bright and real as the moving forms of the actual oﬂ'erers.—
But the silence and desertion of the place soon made themselves felt.
Our footsteps on the loose stones, and our voices in an occasianal ques-
tion, and the ﬂapping wings of the birds whom we disturbed were
the only sounds: and the lantern which was carried before us in the
shadowy recesses was a dismal light for such a place. I could not.
under the circumstances, make out anything of the disposition of the
buildings: and I think that a visit to Philoe by moonlight had better be
preceded by a visit to Philce by daylight: but I am glad to have seen
the solemn sight, now that I can look back upon it with the fresh eyes
of clear knowledge of the site and its temples.

A kandjia lay under the bank when we arrived. It had brought our
Scotch friends from Mahatta; and we found them in the court of the
hypaethral temple, sitting on the terrace wall in the moonlight,—the
gentlemen with their chibouques,——the ladies with their bonnets in their
hands. Their ﬁrst and last view of Philce was on this lovely night:
and this was our last sight of them. They were to set off down the
river the next morning, at the same hour that we were to begin the
ascent of the Cataract. Our greetings, our jokes, our little rivalries
were all over; and the probability was that we should never meet
again.—How sorry we were for them that they were turning back!
We not only had Nubia, with its very old temples—and above all.
Aboo-Simbilf—full in prospect, but a return to this island, to obtain a
clear knowledge of it. My heart would have been very heavy to-night
if this had been my only view of Philce ;--a view so obscure, so tanta-
lizing, and so oppressive: and I was sorry accordingly for those who
were to see it but once, and thus.

' Hypaethrel—open to the sky. 1’ Ipsamboul.

 

