ms'ronv or nanono'rus. 103

this probable from (among other reasons) their being black, and having
curly hair.‘ This blackness was probably only a relative term;
for not only do we ﬁnd the Nubians at this day, with their strong
resemblance to the portraits in the tombs, of a dark bronze, but in the
tombs there is a clear distinction between the absolute black of negro
captives and other. dark complexions. On these walls, the color given
to ﬁgures generally is a dark red. Where there is a bluish black, or
neutral tint on the faces, it is distinctive merely of the priestly caste.
The women are sometimes painted yellow; and so are certain
strangers, supposed to be Asiatic or European. It is a curious circum-
stance, related by Sir W. Gel}, that in the Tarquinian tombs in Etru-
ria, all the men have the dark red complexion found in the Egyptian
tombs. This rather tends to conﬁrm the impression that the red color
may be symbolical, like the blue for the priests, and the yellow for the
women. On the whole, it is thought. probable that the old Egyptian
complexion was of the dark bronze of the Nubians of the present day.
Herodotus says that, except the‘Lybians, no people were so blessed in
point of health and temperament :‘l and be repeatedly records traits of
their cleanliness, and nicety with regard to food and habits. It does
not appear that they’were insensible or reconciled to the plague of in-
digenous insects, as natives usually are,—and especially Africans; for
he tells us of their sleeping under nets to avoid the mosquitoes: Their
dress was of linen, with fringes round *the legs,§—and over this they
wore a cloak of white wool, which must he laid aside before they en-
tered the temples ;—-or the tomb; for it was not permitted to bury in
woolen garments. Every man had but one wife;|| and the women
were clearly in that state of freedom which must be supposed to exist
where female sovereignty was a matter of course in its turn. Herodo-
tus tells that the women went into the market, and conducted com-
merce while the men stayed at home to weave cloth.1] He speaks of
them as a serious-minded and most religious people. “ They are very
religious,” he says, “and surpass all men in the worship they render
to the gods.”"‘“I He tells of their great repugnance to the customs of
the Greeks and of all other men ;i1’ and everywhere attests the original-
ity of the Egyptians, and their having given truth, knowledge and cus-
toms to others, without having themselves derived from any.

One of the most interesting inquiries to us is about the language of
these people. To form any idea of the labors of modern interpreters
of the monuments, we must remember that they have not only to read
the perfectly singular cipher of these writers on stone, but to ﬁnd their
very language. Of course, the only h0pe is in the study of the Coptic;
and the Coptic became almost a dead language in the twelfth century
of carers, and entirely so in, the seventeenth, after having been for ages
corrupted by the admixture of foreign terms, going on at the same time
with the loss of old native ones. Egypt never had any permanent
colonies in which her language might be preserved during the ages

6 Herod. II. 104. Ibid. 77. 1 Ibid. 95.
5 Ibid. 31. Ibid. 9-2. 7 Ibid. 35.
-- Ibid. 37. 1'1 lbid. 91.

