DAKKIH. 126

Some would permit us to examine them: others ﬂed and hid them-
selves behind huts or walls, on our merely looking in their faces: and
of these none was so swift as the best dressed woman of them all. She
had l00ped back, with her blue necklace, the mantle she wore on her
head, to leave her hands and eyes free for making her bread. Of all
the scamperers she was the swiftest when our party began to look
about them. A mother and daughter sat on the ground within a small
enclosure, grinding millet with the antique quhern: a pretty sight, and
a dexterously-managed, though slow process. Several of the women
had brass nose-rings, which to my eyes look about as barbarous and
ugly as ear-rings; and no more. When 'we come to the piercing ﬂesh
to insert ornaments, I do not see that it matters much whether the ear
or nose is pierced. The insertion is surely the harbarism.

While I was on the top of the propylon of Dakkeh, I saw far 03' to
the northwest, a wide stretch of blue watErs, with the reﬂection of
shares and trees. Rather wondering how such a lake or reach of the
river could be there, while the Nile seemed to be ﬂowing northeast,
and observing that these waters were bluer than those of the river, ‘I
asked myself whether this could possibly be the mirage, by which I
‘had promised m self ‘ never to be deceived. My ﬁrst thought was of
mirage: but a ittle further study nearly convinced me that it was a
real water—either a lake left by the inundation, or a reach of the river
brought there bya sudden bend. I was still suﬂicientl uncertain to
wish my friends to come up and see; though the re ection of the
groves and clamps on the banks was as perfect as possible in every
line. Just as I was going down to call my party, I saw a man’s head
and shoulders come up out of the midst of the lake :—a very large
head and shoulders—such as a man might have who was near at hand.
The sensation was strange, and not very. agreeable. a The distant blue
lake took itself of in flakes. The head and shoulders belonged to a
man walking across the sand below: and the groves and clumps and
well-cut banks resolved themselves into scruhby bushes, patches of
coarse grass,and simple stones. This was the best mirage I have ever
seen, for its beauty and the completeness of the deception. I saw
many afterwards in the Desert; and a very ﬁne one in the plain of
Damascus: but my heart never beat again as it did on the top of the
Dakkeh propylou.~ I had a noble view of the Desert and the Nile
from that height: and it was only sixty-nine steps of winding stair
that I had to ascend. These propyla were the watch-towers and bul-
warks of the temples in the old days when the temples of the Deities
were the fortiﬁcations of the country. If the inhabitants had known
early enough the advantage of citadels and garrisons, perhaps the
Shepherd Race might never have possessed the country; or would,
at least, have found their conquest of it more difﬁcult than, according
to Manetho, they did. “ It came to pass,” says Manetho (as Josephus
cites him), “ I know not how, that God was displeased with us: and
there came up from the East, in a strange manner, men of an ignoble
race, who had the conﬁdence to invade our country, and easily sub-
dued it by their power, without a battle. And when they had our

