“MON. 405

ing visit without any demonstration of ill-will. There must be more
in the matter than we comprehended. no doubt. _

As for the persecution to which this story relates—there is no part
of the world—or of the civilized world, at leash-where the traveler
can go, without coming upon the traces of religious persecution. He
ﬁnds it in Massachusetts and in England; in Germany and Egypt; at
Jerusalem and at Damascus. Nowhere can men leave other men free
in regard to matters of Opinion. In countries like ours, where the
laws forbid aggression on life, property and outward liberty, on ac-
count of matters of Opinion, it is common to say that there is no per-
secution: but it is no more possible in England and Germany than it
ever was in Spain or Italy, for men to hold the diversity of opinions
which men were made to held without being the worse for it, in repu-
tation and peace of mind, if not in liberty and property. I am not
speaking of this, now as a matter of censure, but as a curious matter of
fact. There could not be so universal a tendency to intolerance with-
out some overwhelming reason for it :-—some cause deep-seated in hu-
man nature, or stringently operative in human circumstances. Be-
sides the causes which lie deep in human nature—the need of sympa-
thy, the love of repose upon convictions, the pride which is usually
more or less implicated in our judgments. and the partial view which
men inevitably take of every subject upon which their minds are not
in suspense ;—besidcs all these causes of dislike to adverse opinions,
there is almost universally prevalent, an idea of danger, spiritual dan-
ger, incurred by the holding of any opinions but those which the par-
ties respectively believe to be right. It is only a man here and there
who knows, and acts upon the knowledge, that the greatest safety in
the universe is in truth; and that the most direct path to safety is in
the pursuit of truth. And perhaps it is even more rare still to meet
with one who sees that all genuine faith is—other circumstances being
the same—of about equal value. The value is in the act of faith, more
than in the object; as is shown by the glorious men who have lived
under every system of religious faith, and the bad men who have
ﬂourished equally under the worst and under what we are accustomed
to consider the best. Of course, it is of very high importance that the
objects of faith shodld be the loftiest and the purest that, in any par-
ticular age, can be attained. A noble-minded man cannot take up with
a low superstition when a higher system of faith is open to him : or he
will suﬂ'er spiritually if he does: but he may be as noble in the tho-
rough devotion of his faculties to the highest abstraction of his time as
a successor may be under a higher abstraction of a later time. His
need and his prerogative are to exercise his highest faculties in faith
and obedience, and to gratify the best part of his nature by the con-
templation and attainment of “the beauty of holiness,” whatever he
the names which he and others give to the Ideas which are the guid-
ing stars of his life. An Egyptian of 6000 years ago might attain as
lofty a moral state by living in obedience to that highest conception to
which he gave the name of Amun or Osiris,“ a Jew of similar nature
and powers who devoted himself to the same loftiest ideas under the

