u'ruart 'ro Hanna. 409

moustached gentlemen, sat two smooth shaven, neat Americans. Here
was a party, collected from the ends of the earth, and set down on the
top of Mount Carmel, to be waited on by monks! Such a party made
the good monks very busy. It was uncomfortable to think of the se-
verity of their rule, when I saw the dinner they set before us—ﬁrst,
soup and ﬁsh; then boiled fowls; then roast fowls; then broiled fowls;
and ﬁnally, a huge bowl of rich custard.

The next morning our convent friends and we parted in hearty friend-
ship; and we paced unwillingly down the mountain, and turned away
from the sea. Our ride back to Nazareth made as sweet it Sunda
morning of this as we could have anywhere enjoyed. All was {res
and quiet in the plain, and by the Kishon,—whose windings we now
followed, and in the glades of what we called the park scenery of Gali-
lee.—We obtained a ﬁner view than before of Nazareth from the brow
of the hill; and on dismounting, went again into the church, to enjoy
the ﬁne chanting.

Our mule and its driver awaited us, as we had been led to expect.
Just as Alee had foretold, the creature was declared by the Governor
of Djeneen to have been found upon the mountain; and fourteen pias-
tres were charged for the trouble of its recovery. Like thieves in
general. the people of Djeneen are very impolitic. The place has
such a bad reputation that they ﬁnd themselves generally avoided by
travelers. If they do not mend their morals, they will soon see no more
strangers,—sell no more provisions in that market, and be no more
wanted as guards.

 

CHAPTER VIII.

(JANA—MOUNT OF THE BEATITUDES.—TlBERIAS—PLAIN 0F GEN-
N ESARETH —SZAFFAD.s—UPPER VALLEY OF THE JORDAN—PA-
NIAS.—LEAVING PALESTINE.

WI: left Nazareth in a drizzling rain. It had delayed us till half-
past eight o’clock; but we were anxious to be oﬂ',-—the air was so hot
and close in the convent. On the hills we met the breeze; and we
enjoyed it without being aware how much we should miss it, and sigh
for a breath of wind, during the next two days. Travelers going to
Tabarea (Tiberias) should be warned what the place is like, that they
may not be deluded, as we were, with pleasant visions of rest by the
lake-side; but take their survey, and ride away again, before they are
made ill by the oppression of the atmosphere. I would not judge by
our own passing experience; but I believe most or all of the travelers
who have remained any time at Tiberias since the great earthquake,
have complained of its climate and its vermin.

At about an hour and a half from Nazareth, Giuseppe turned up the
hills to the right, and made signs to us to follow him, though the bag-
gage-mules and servants continued along the valley. We did not know
what we were to see. We passed through a poor hamlet, which, how-

