name In mm. 241

were in all three violent shocks, which shook the buildings, made the'
doors rattle, and the rafters and roof tremble: and the dwellings which
were in bad condition or in a lofty situation seemed doomed to destruc-
tion. There were more shocks towards noon of the same day; but they
were felt by few persons, because they were gentle and soon over. It
had been extremal cold that night, so as to compel us to cover our-
selves more warm y than usual: to this temperature succeeded the next
day an extreme heat, and an excessive estilential wind which inter-
cepted respiration, and was positivel su ocating. Such an earthquake
as this is rarely known in Egypt. life afterwards learned by tidings
which arrived from many quarters, that the earthquake was felt at the
same hour in distant countries, and in villages \a long way off. I con-
sider it certain that at the same moment a great part of the world felt
the shock, from Kous to Damietta, Alexandria, the coast of S ria, and
indeed the whole of Syria, in all its length and breadth. any in-
habited places disappeared altogether, without an trace whatever
being left of them, and an innumerable multitude 0 people perished.
Iknow of no place in all S ria which suffered less than Jerusalem:
that city suffered very litte damage. The rava es‘caused by this
event were much eater in the countries inhabited y the Franks than
in those occupied y the Mussulmans.” . . . .

“ The following fact is one of the most remarkable of all that I wit-
nessed. Several persons among those who diligently visited me to
confer with me on medicine, having got as far as the Treatise on Ana-I
tomy (of Galen) found it difficult to understand me, as I found it difﬁ-
cult to make myself understood by them, because there is a great dif-
ference between a verbal description and the inspection of the objects
themselves. Having learned that there was at Make a hill on which
human remains had accumulated in great quantity, we went there;
and we saw a mound of considerable extent composed of. the remains
of human bodies: there was more of them than of the soil: and we
could reckon that there were twenty thousand corpses, and, more that
could be perceived by the eye. They might be distinguished into dif-
ferent classes, according to age.” And then he proceeds to give an
anatomical lecture.

“ When from a height we looked down,” he continues, “ upon the
place called the Basin, and which is a considerable hollow, we saw
skulls, some white, some black,.and others of a deep brown: they were
in layers, and heaped up in such a quantity that they covered up the
other bones: one would have said that there were only heads without
bodies: and one might suppose that one saw melons which had been
gathered, and which were thrown into a pile, as we heap sheaves upon
a granary ﬂoor. Some days afterwards I saw them again: the sun
had dried the ﬂesh: the skulls had become white, and I compared
them. to ostriches’ eggs piled together. When I contemplated on the
one hand the solitude which reigned in the streets and markets of
Misr, and on the other these plains and hills which vomited corpses, I
represented to myself a caravan which had quitted the spot where it
had encamped, and had removed to another place. Moreover, this was

16

