400 smart am.

I took, my last look abroad before retiring to rest. As every onekaovs,
the summit of Carmel commands a magniﬁcent expanse of sea; and
below that rid e it was that Elijah sat, with his head bowed on hi
knees, while is servant watched for signs of rain.‘ That servant
looked abroad long and patiently over the salt sea and demolated land:
and at last he saw only “ a little cloud arising out of the sea, no bigger
than a man’s hand:" and when he had come down, “ the whole has-
ven was black with clouds and wind, and there was a great rain.” l
looked abroad over the same scene this night. The whole mountain
side, dressed with blossoms and ﬂowering shrubs, and fragrant beds.
was receiving the dews of the night. The plain, ready for harvest, lay
dim below ;—the undulating line of the surf just showed where the
land and the waters met; and over the ve horizon line of the heat-
ing sea,—-'ust where that little cloud mightrhave come up,—-the slenda
crescent o the youn moon was dropping into the waves. Such is my
vision of “the excel ency of Carmel.”

It was not nearly sunset, however, when we arrived at the convent.
The approach is through Hayfa, and by a rocky, grassy, wooded reach.
to the foot of the ascent. The road up the mountain is very steep; W
it is fenced all the way; and the traveler almost forgets his fatignes in
the glory of the views. Acre, on the northern horn of the bay of which
Carmel is the southern, is very conspicuous,—lying white on its pro-
montory.

The convent is spacious and handsome; and a second house is build- ~

ing for the reception of Mohammedan visitors. There are now twelve
monks in it; men of a far superior order, we thought, to most that I!
had met. Brother Charles, who was our chief friend among them. “5
a traveled man, and spoke French like his mother tongue. The, convent
was laid waste by the Turks, at the time when they came up and murder
ed two thousand wounded French soldiers, who were brought hither")
be nursed: and in order to rebuild it, it was necessary to obtain 30.00“
Brother Charles traveled over Europe to raise the money; and he seen!
to have called forth good will wherever he went. He shows an album
which is as rich in the eminent names of Europe as his money ll!
was with its gold: and his open heart and manners indicate that he
has lived in kindness, given and taken. Such seems to be the spint
of the establishment, where all strangers are welcome,—-where
hungry are fed, the sick are nursed, and no question is made of matters
of fait and opinion. I wish this example of the Christian spirit
been as operative on all who have beneﬁted by it as one mi ht hm
hoped it would be: but there is at least one person in the wor d who”
heart cannot be softened by the hospitable spirit of this place. If ll”
Pharisees were right in their doctrine of the transmigration of 80“
one of them has glut into this man,—a minister of the Free Church

Scotland, who de 'vers his paltry soul b pourin himself out in the ‘

Visitors’ Book of the convent. The bret ren e him as eomfortnble
as they could, and supplied him with the little dainties of distillery and

. 1 Kings XVIII. 42—45.

 

