warts mean. 55

to the shore; and now, taken by surprise, seeing the white beard, and
having his head full of hislate interview. he announced to me “ his
Excellency, Selim Pasha.” Up I jumped, with my lap-full of work,
even more disappointed that this should be. the hero of that romantic
story than dismayed at the visit. And he looked so unlike the old man
I saw under the palm at Souhadj ! I called up Mrs. Y. from the cabin.
Mr. Y. made signs to the cook (for our only interpreter was absent)
for pipes and coffee: and we sat down in form and order, and abun-
dant awkwardness. To complete the absurdity of the scene, a line of
towels, just out of the wash-tub, were drying on the tsp of the cabin;
and the ironing blanket was on the cabin table. The ﬁrst. relief was
Mrs. Y.’s telling me, “ It is not Selim Pasha. These are the son and
dean of the English consul at Kenneh.”

Then I began to remember certain things of the English consul at
Kenneh—what a discreet old Arab he is reported to be—behaving ten-
derly to European ladies, and pressing parties to go and dine with him;
and then, when they are on the way to the town, stepping back to the
boat, and laying hands on all the nice provisions he can ﬁnd, from eggs
to Maraschino: so that he extracts a delectable dinner for himself out
of his showy hospitality to strangers. While I was reviving all this
in my memory, the old man himself was coming down to us. He
shook hands with us all round; and, as I expected, kissed the hand of
each lady, and pressed us to go up and dine with him. Alec, who had
in the meantime returned with Mr. E., and seen from afar that we were
holding a levée, had received his instructions to decline decisively all
invitations, and convey that we were in a hurry, as the wind was fair
for Thebes: so we were let off witha promise that we would dine
with the Consul on our return, if we could. But now arrived the
Governor of Kenneh, a far superior-looking person, handsomely dressed
in ﬁne brown broadcloth. The Consul’s elderly son took the oppor-
tunity of exploring the cabins, peeping into every corner, and exam-
ining Mr. E.’s glass and fowling-picce. We feared a long detention
by visitors; but these departed before any others came; and it was
still early in the afternoon when we spread our sail, and were off for
Thebes.

 

CHAPTER iv.

WALKS ASHORE.—FIRST SIGHT 0F THEBES.—ADFOO.—CHRISTMAS
DAY. *

Tn: next morning (Sunday, December 20th) we found we must
still have patience, as we should not see Thebes for another day. The
wind had dropped at seven, the evening before, and had brought us only
three miles this morning. In the course of the day we were made
fully sensible of our happiness in having plenty of time, and in not
being pressed to speed by any discomfort on board our boat. We

