220 turn: we.“

two words of English. On my jumping down a particularly high block,
they patted me on the back, crying, with approving nods, “ Ah! ah !
good morning; good morning!” I joined my party at the beautiful
entrance to the Pyramid, where a lar assemblage of Arabs was ranged
on the rising stones opposite to us, Iii: a hill-side congregation waiting
for the preacher.

I resolved that morning not to be induced by any pleasure or triumph
of the hour to tell people that it is ver easy to go up and into the Py—
ramid. To determined and practise people it is easy; but not, pro-
bably, to the majority. I would not recommend any one to do it of
whose nerve I was not sure. To the tranquil, the inside of the Pyra-
mid is suﬂiciently airy and cool for the need of the hour. But it is a
dreadful place in which to be seized with a panic: and no woman
should go who cannot trust herself to put down panic by reason.
There is absolutely nothing to fear but from one’s self; no danger of
bad falls, or of giving astray, or of being stiﬂed. The passages are slip-
pery: but there are plent of notches; and a fall could hardly be dan-
gerous—unless at one lime—the entrance upon the passage to the
King’s Chamber. ~We new beforehand that there were air-passages
from that chamber to the outside ; and when I walked about before ex-
amining the place, and questioned my senses, I was surprised to ﬁnd
how little oppressive heat, and how much air there really was. The
one danger is from the impression upon the senses of the solidity and
vastness of the stone structure in such darkness. Almost any'nerves
may be excused for giving way under the sight of that passa e and
that chamber ;—-the whole, even the roof, being constructed of locks
of dark ranite, so joined as that the edge of a penknife could not be
inserted tween them. The passage runs up, a steep inclined plane,
with its lines on either hand, and its notches in front, retiring almost to
a vanishing point, other grooves and projections high up the side walls
apparently coming down to the same vanishing point, and all closed in
b the pondemus ceiling, at such a height as to be well nigh lost in
g oom. The torches of the Arabs glare near the eye, and perplex the
vision by their ﬁtful shining on the granite walls; and at the same
time, the lights in advance or far behind are like waving glow-worm
sparks. There is nothing else like it ;—no catacomb or cavern in the
world ; there never was, and surely there never will be. I have spent
the greater part of two da s in the Mammoth Cave of Kentucky; a
place generally considered, awful enough: but compared with this, it
was like a drawing-room to a cellar. The fantastic character of its
walls and roofs takes oﬂ~ from the impression of its vastness and gloom.
Here, the symmetry and ﬁnish so deepen the gloom as to make this
seem like a ﬁt prison-house for fallen angels. Notwithstanding the

lain view we obtained in the chamber of the enormous longitudinal
locks of the ceiling, the impression was less tremendous than in the
descending passage, from the inferior vastness. There is nothing but
the structure itself to be seen, except the sarcoPhagus near one end.
It is sadly broken: but it still rings like a bell, when struck on the
side. The granite is blackened by time; but its grain is seen where

