man. 08

lirew down their drum, pipe, and ﬁnery, and went to work as usual.
We were now making for the shore, in order to land a man who had
begged a passage from Cairo. He was a Rais; and had served at
Constantinople and elsewhere for twenty-ﬁve years, during which
time he had never been home. For many years he had had no tidings
of wife or children; and now, when within a mile or two of his home,
he showed no signs of perturbation. He made his acknowledgments
to us with an easy cheerful grace, put all his bright red slippers, and
descended into the mud, and then thrust his muddy feet into his new-
slippers with an air of entire tranquillity. We watched him as long
as we could see him among the palms, and should have been glad to
know how he found. all at home. The scene around looked t‘ar indeed
out of the bounds of Christendom, this Christmas-day, till I saw, on a
steep, the ruins of the Coptic convent of St. George. Aswan was now

ping over the. palms on the eastern shore; and opposite to it was
the island of Elephantine—half rubbish, half verdure. We. moored to
the shore below Aswt'tn just at two o’clock; and thus we kept our
appointment, to dine at the First Cataract on Christmas-day. Our
dinner included turkey and lam-pudding. Our Arab cook succeeded
well with the last-mention novelty. We sent a huge cantle of. it to
the Rais, who ate it all in a trice, and gave it his emphatic approbation.

 

CHAPTER VI.

ASWAN.—SLAVES.—FIRST RIDE IN THE DESERT.—QUARRIES.—ELE-
PHANTINE—RIV'ER SCEN ERY.—PREPARATION S FOR NUBIA.—FIRST
SIGHT 0F PHILCE. '

As soon as our plank was down, a sort of mob-market was formed
on shore. There was a display of stuﬁ‘ed crocodile, spears, ebony
clubs, straw-baskets, coins, walking sticks, an ostrich’s eg, a conjurer,
dzc. It was at this place that a girl oﬂ'ered me for sale an English
half-penny; and another the glass stopper of a little bottle. Here, as
everywhere, my ear trumpet was handled and examined with quick
curiosity ; and in almost every case, from Nubia to the Lebanon, the im-
mediate conclusion was the same. The inquirers put the small end to
their lips, and gave a satisﬁed nod. It wasvcl‘early a pipe, with an
enormous bowl! At Aswin, however, we staid long enough for the
people to discover what the trumpet was for; and from the moment of
the discovery, they did their best to enable me to do without it. As
-we passed through the lane they made for us, they pressed forwards
to shout into my ears “baksheesh! baksheesh,” till Alec pushed and
ﬂogged them away. I wonder at their perseverance in thus inces-
santly begging of strangers; for we could not learn that they ever got
anything by it. If, as it appeared to me, travelers give only in return
for service, or in consideration of some inﬁrmity, the perseverance in
begging seems wonderful. I saw at this place parents teaching a little

