.114 smsnu urn.

was patrouess of the western part of Thebes,—“ the Lybian suburb,”
as it was called of old.‘ ‘Plutarch says that the death of Osiris was be-
lieved to have happened in her month ;—the third Egyptian month: that
her shrines were in that mouth carried about in procession; at the time
when the Pleiades appear and the husbandmen began to sow their corn.
The countenance of this goddess was everywhere in the temples so
mild and tranquil as to accord well with the imagery of the Summer
Night, the Morning Star, and the Seed-time, which are associated, in
the Egyptian worship, with her name. I found the ﬁgure in the ady-
tum (Holiest Place) much mutilated: butthe head and ears were still
distinctly visible. Hieroglyphic legends on each side declare her name
and titles. This temple extends, from the portal, about ninety feet into
the rock. Little as I had yet learned how to look at temples, I found
this full of interest. In the Course of the morning, we detected some of
our own crew making a ﬁre against the sculptures in the hall. Of
course, we interfered, with grave faces: but there is no hope that
Arabs will not make their ﬁres in such convenient places, whenever
they can. A~~cave at the top of the bank is irresistible to them, whether
it he sculptured or not.

I was impatient to get to the Colossi of the large temple, which
looked magniﬁcent from our deck. 80, after breakfast,l set forth alone,
to see what height I could attain, in the examination of the statues.

The southernmost is the only complete one. The next to it is terri.
hly shattered: and the other two have lost the t0p of the helmet. They
are much sanded up, though, thanks to Mr. Hay. much less than they
were. The sand slopes up from the half cleared entrance to the chin
of the northernmost colossus: and this slope of sand it was my purpose
to climb. It was so steep, loose, and hot to the feet, that it was no easy
matter to make my way up. The beetles, which tread lightly and seem
to like having warm feet, got on very well; and they covered the sand
with a net work of tracks: but heavier climbers, shod in + leather, are
worsted in the race with them. But one cannot reach the chin of a
colossus every day: and it was worth an effort. And when I had
reached the chin, I made a little discovery about it which may be worth
recording, and which surprised me a good deal at the time. I found
that a part of the lower jaw, reaching half way up the lower lip. was
composed of the mud and straw of which crude bricks are made. There
had been evidently a fault in the stone, which was supplied by this
material. It was most beautifully moulded. The beauty of the curves
of these great faces is surprising in the stone ;-—the ﬁdelity of the round-
ing of the muscles, and the grace of the ﬂowing lines of the cheek and
jaw: but it was yet more wonderful in such a material as mud and
straw. I cannot doubt that this chin and lip were moulded when the
material was in a soft state :—a diﬁcult task in the case of a statue
seventy feet high, standing up against the face of a rock. I called the
gentlemen up, to bear witness to the fact: and it set us looking for more
instances. Mr. E. soon found one. Part of the dress of the Second

0 Wilkinson’s Ancient Egyptians, IV. 387.

