noon or asoosnnn. 83'

the absence of others. Hereqand there amidst the dreary expanse, or
half hidden in ‘some sandy dell, lay the bleached skeleton of a camel.
The only living things seen were a brood of partridges and a jerboa,—-
a, graceful and most agile little creature. whose long extended tail, with
its tufted end, gave it a most distinctive appearance. Some of our
peeple started 06' in pursuit, and would not give up for a long time,
making extreme efforts to keep the little creature in view, and drive
it in one another’s way; but it bafﬂed them at last, and got back to
its hole. '

We rode to the foot of the rock of Abooseer, and then ascended
it—in rather heavy spirits. knowing that this was to be our last look
southwards. The summit was breezy and charming. I looked down
the precipice on which I stood, and saw a sheer descent to the Nile
of two hundred feet. The waters were gushing past the foot of this
almost perpendicular crag: and from holes in its strata ﬂew out ﬂocks
of pigeons, blue in the sunshine. The scene all round under that .
wide heaven was wild beyond description. There was no moving
creature visible but ourselves and the pigeons; and no trace of human
habitation but the ruins of two mud huts, and of a white building on
the Arabian shore. The whole scene was composed of desert, river,
and black basaltic rocks. Round. to the north, from the south-west,
there is actually nothing to be seen but blackish, sand-streaked rocks
near at hand, and sandy desert further off. To the north-east, the
river winds away, blue and full, between sands. Two white sails
were on it at the moment. From the river, a level sand extended
to the soft-tinted Arabian hills, whose varied forms and broken lights
and shadows were on the horizonnearly from the north round to the
south-east. These level sands then give place to a black rugged sur-
face, which extends to where two summits,-—to-day of a bright amethyst
hue,—close the circuit of vision. These summits are at a considerable
distance on,the way to Dongola. The river is hidden among the‘black
rocks to the south, and its course is not traceable till it peeps out, blue
and bright, in two or three places, and hides itself again among the
islets. It makes a great bend while thus hidden, and reappears much
more to the east. It has now reached the part properly called the
Second Cataract; and it comes sweeping down towards the rock on
which we stood, dashing and driving among its thousand islets, and
then gathering its thousand currents into one, to proceed calmly on its
course. Its waters were turbid in the rapids, and looked as muddy
where they poured down from shelf or boulder as in the Delta itself;
but in all its calm reaches it reﬂected the sky in a blue so deep as it
would not do to paint. The islets were of fantastic forms,—worn by
the cataracts of ages: but still, the outlines were angular, and the black
ledges were graduated by }he action of the waters, as if they had been
soft sand. On one or two islands I saw what I at ﬁrst took for millet-
patches: but they were only coarse grass and reeds. A sombre
brownish tamarisk, or dwarfed mimosa, put up its melancholy head
here and there; and this was all the vegetation apparent within that
wide horizon.—I doubt whether a more striking scene than this, to

