annex mansions. 97

be favorites, and even hosts of those gods. It was with these wise
Thebans (then one with the Ethiopians) that Jupiter and his family
were supposed by the Greeks to be making holiday, when out of reach,
as it seemed, of the prayers of the besiegers of 'I‘roy.—The 'l‘lteban
family of monarchs, however, was by this time declinin in power;
and after a century or two of weakness, they were displace by stronger
men from a. higher station up the river; and Egypt was governed by
princes from the hitherto subordinate province of Ethiopia. In three
generations, Thebes ceased to be the capital of Egypt; and the seat of
government was removed to Sa'l's in the Delta. This event happened
nearly 700 years a. c. From this time, we have the advantage of cor-
tainty of dates, within, at least, the range of a few months. We have
come down to the record of Babylonian eclipses, and the skies light up
the history of the earth.

It was in this age that the downfall of old Egypt was provided for by
the introduction of Greek inﬂuences into the Delta, at the time when
the seat of sovereignty was there. While the national throne stood at
Thebes, the religion, philosophy, learning and language of the ancient
race could be little, if at all, affected by what was doing in other parts
of the world: but when the Thebaid became a province, and the me-
tropolis was open to visits from the voyagers of t e Mediterranean, the
exclusively Egyptian character began to give way; and while Egypt
furnished, through these foreigners, the religion, philosophy, and art of
the whole civilized world, she was beginning to lose the nationality
which was her strength. Nechepsus, one of the kings of safe, was a
learned priest, and wrote on astronomy. His writings were in the
Greek language. The kings of Sale now began to employ Greek mer-
cenaries. Psammitichns I. not only employed as soldiers large num-
bers of Ionian and Carian immigrants, but, as Herodotus tells us,‘
committed to them the children of the Egyptians, to be taught Greek,
and gave them lands and other advantages for settlement in the Delta.
Of course, this was displeasing to his native subjects, and the national
unity was destroyed. One curious circumstance occurred under this
king, which reveals much of the popular temper, and which has left
some remarkable traces behind it,—as will be seen in my next chapter.
Psammitichus placed three armies of Egyptians on the three frontiers
of Egypo That on the southern frontier, stationed at Elephantiue,
grew impatient, after a neglect of three years. Finding their petitions
for removal unanswered, and their pay not forthcoming, they resolved
memigrate, and away they marched, up the river, as far beyond Meroii
u Merci? is beyond Elepkautiuer—and there lands were given them,
where ﬁeir descendants were found, three centuries afterwards. The
king himselfpnreucd andovertook them,audeudeavored promises
tidy-amend appealstothemuottoforssketlnir sudtheir
bombindnce toreturn. Theytoldhim,bowever,thatthey
would make homes for themselves, md marched on. Their numbers
heigasllerodotusteﬂgtwohcsdrcdaudﬁrrtythonsaudmmitwss

‘ - Head. 11 154. t lh'd. so.
7

