as usual ms.

Mr. E.’s rein, and in the most insulting manner, brought his camel
down on its knees. This was the only moment when I was really
alarmed. It seemed too much to expect that Mr. E., with a stick in
his hand, should not rap his knuckles. But I might have known our
friend’s prudence and ﬁne temper better. He raised and turned his
camel, and went on.

We agreed now that we were in for it. We had deﬁed the Shaikh
in the presence of his people, and taken on ourselves the conduct of
the journey for the time. We conscientiously believed this to be ne-
cessary, in order to get on to Hebron, within any reasonable time, and
in any condition but that of starvation: but we agreed that we would
hear in mind the mortiﬁcation we had inﬂicted,and spare the old man’s
feelings in other matters as much as we could. 0n looking back, I
saw that our comrades were following us; and soon Lady
and the Sheikh appeared in the rear. Our dragoman was grave, and
some of the Arabs evidently perplexed.

0n we went, through a wadee, strewn with wild ﬂowers,—-we three
in front, and Mr. F. riding not far behinde—when the Sheikh galloped
past, stopped a-head, in the middle of the way, and waited with his
spear, as if to bar our progress. We greeted him and rode by. He
then tried his ﬁnal manoeuvre. He wheeled his horse at full gallop
round and round us, coming nearer and nearer, till he almost clued
upon Mr. E.; and when behind him, raised his spear with a theatrical
air, and stuck it into Mr. E.’s camel under the tail. I saw that it was
so gently done that the animal would not be the worse; and this con-
vinced me that the whole was a show, for the sake of intimidation.
Mr. E. was so quiet, that I thought at ﬁrst that he was not aware what
was doing: but he turned on his seat with a look which said, as plainl
as looks can speak, "0! that is the way you think to frighten me: ’
and rode on as before,--only bidding our young friend let his pistols
alone. Both this youth and Mr. F. had recourse to their pistols in a
moment: but there was no occasion for them. Mr. E.’s contempt had
done the business. The old Shaikh sneaked off, completely crest-
fallen, and dropped into the rear. The whole scene, which passed
more quickly than I can describe it, was so ridiculous,—there was so
much of stage effect about it,—that it made me laugh for an hour after.
I might have recovered my gravity sooner, but the second Sheikh,
Hasan, who had come up to see, and to help, I suppose, if necessary,
was now walking near: and he seemed so utterly perplexed at my
laughter, that it set me off again. If I stopped for a moment, he came
to the head of my camel, and peeped under my hat, with such an ex-
pression of perplexity and amazement in his face, that it made me
burst forth again.

“ And now,” Isaid to Mr. E., “ what will you do next 2"

“It is now twenty minutes past two. We will ride on till four.”—
I begged for some little concession; and it was settled that we should
stOp at the next advantageous place after another hour.

The Sheikh two or three times cantered past us, planted his spear,
and waited: and when he saw that we did not attend to it, rode on

 

 

