LEA AND BLANCHARD’S PUBLICATIONS.

 

LAW BOOKS.
HllllAlill (IN REAL ESTATE.

NOW READY.

 

 

m AMERICAN LAW 01' REAL PROPERTY.

excoso EDITION, navrssn, coaasc'rnn, AND ENLARGED.
BY FRANCIS HILLIARD,

MIDI-OB AT “W.

In two large octavo volumes. beautifully printed. and bound in best law sheep.

This book is designed as a substitute for Cruise’s at, occupying the
same ound in American law which that work has ong covered in the
lﬂnglis law. It embraces all that portion of the English Law of Real
Estate which has any applicability in this country; and at the same time it
embodies the statutory revisions and adjudged cases of all the States upon
the same subject; there y constituting a complete elementary treatise for
American students and practitioners. The plan of the work is such as to
render it equally valuable in all the States, embracing, as it does, the pecu-
liar modiﬁcations of the law alike in Massacnusms and Missoum, N aw
You: and Mrssrssrrrr. In this edition, the statutes and decisions subse-
quent to the former one, which are very numerous. have all been incorpo-
rated, thus making it one-third larger than the ori inal work, and bringing
*0 View of the law upon the subject treated quite own to the present tune.

he book is recommended in the highest terms by distinguished jurists of
different States, as will be seen by t e subjoined extracts.

“Therm-k beforeussupplies thisdeﬁcieneyinahighlyaatisfactory manner. It is beyond all
queathn the best work of the kind that we now have, and although we doubt whether this or any
st‘hcworhwm be likelytosupplant Cruise’s Digest. we donot hesitate to any. that of the two,
thhis thomorevaluable to the American lawyer. Weoongratulate the author upon thesucceu-
ful accomplishment of the arduous task he undertook, in reducing the vast body of the American
Law of Real Property to ‘portable size,’ and we do not doubt that his labours will beduly appra-
dated by the profession.”—Lals Reporter, Aug, 1846.

JudgeStoryaays:-—“Ithinltthe worhavery valuable addition to ourpreeent stockol’juridiml
ﬁaratnre. lternhraeesall thatpartof Mr. Cruise's Diseatwhichismost useful toAmerican law-
yera. Butltshighernlaeis.tbatitpreaentshraeoncise.butolearandexaet {mtheauhstanoe
elAmaricanLawontheesmesubject. [Mumwmmmmmis
.mtebsseeﬂea-‘eebfdt.’ “'I‘hewonderis,tbat the annorhaabeenabletobringaogreata
“Mancunian-demummprehenstreandluctd."

ChancellorKenteaysoltheworh(Cammentarln,voLlL,p.m,nota,5thedition):—“Itinvert
dareatlabourandhttrinsioyalne.”

”MM":JKLWWIWR hasbeea for three or {our yearsinuse,and 1
thtakthatllrJustloeStoryandChancellorﬂeataxrs'e-thegeneralopinionofthauasaachusetts
Dar.”

mommﬂlhadalrudybuadthemueditionanryoonuwbook drab-
mmammammamdmommahmmm"

Mlﬁ'l‘ownsenderaJeCollmIns-

“l havabeeaatvguainted foreseen] yearawith the ﬁrst ediﬁoool’blrJIilliard’s'lhaﬂsmaﬂ
hank-ada'very limrableoﬂnienotit. lhavenodoobttheseeoodedition'tllbaﬁuodevaa
mnlnablethanthe ﬁrst,end I shall be happytorecomrnsnditaslmay have om. I
howdaoetherworkonthesableeteﬂteal Estatenoeornprehenslreaodaowanamteth
“solthelawlnﬂleoanﬂ'y.”

