522 am.

areonly moderate in length. What isapoor creaturetodowhoisputopon scheme
horse, ass, or camel, day by day, for rides of eight hoars’ long, for weeks moths!
The thtigue and distress socaused are terrible to witness, as I can Mfg—thongs
we were happily warned in time, and went unincumbered by English servants al-
together. Of course, the lady herself is sure of her ability to ride to this extent; or
she will put herself into training before she leaves home.

As to diet—our party are all of opinion that it is the safest way to eat and
drink, as nearly as possible, as one does at home. It may be worth mentioning do:
the syrups and acids which some travelers think they shall like in the Desert, are not
wholesome, nor so refreshing as might be anticipated. Ale and porter are met
hetter;—-as remarkably wholesome and refreshing as they are at sea. Tea and
ooﬁ'ee are pleasant everywhere. Ladies who have courage to do what is good h
thorn, and agreeable to them, in new circumstances, in disregard of former profs
dices, will try the virtues of the chibouque while in the East: and if they like it, they
will go on with it as long as they feel that they want it. The chibonqne would not
be in such universal use as it is in the East, if there were not some ream ft: 3‘
and the reason is that it is usually found eminently good for health. I found it so:
and I saw no more reason why I should not take it than why English ladies should
not take their daily glass of sherry at home ;——an indulgence which I do not need.
I continued the use of my chibouque for some weeks after my return ; and then left
it 06 only on account of its inconvenience: and in the East, it is not inconvenient
The traveler there ﬁnds that his reasonable disgustat the cigar-smoking of our streets
does not apply to the Eastern practice. The quality of the tobacco, and the laugh
of the pipe (in which the essential oil is condensed, instead of being imbibed hythe
smoker) make the whole aﬁ‘air something wholly diﬁ‘erent from any smoking known
in England. I need not say that every traveler is absolutely obliged to appear n
smoke, on all occasions of visiting in the East: and if any lady ﬁnds refreshment
and health in the practice, I hope I need not say that she should continue it, as ha
as she is subject to the extraordinary fatigues of her new position.

She must not expect health in those countries: and she had better not be discouraged
or alarmed if she ﬁnds herself seldom in a state of bodily case. If she takes raw
care, and makes up her mind cheerfully to the temporary indisposition, she will
probably be as well as ever when she gets home. Her chief care should be to lent
to the health of her mindr—to see that she keeps her faculties awake and free.
whether she is ill or well; that in the future time she may hope to be at once in
possession of her English health, and the stores of knowledge and imagery she is
laying up by her Eastern travel.

C.-—p. 65.

In a paper delivered by the Rev. Dr. Abeken before the Egyptian Society at
Cairo, occurs the following passage. Dr. Abeken was a member of Dr. Lepsins's
party.

Speaking of Some, in that part of Nubia which lies between Wadee Hulk and
Dongola, Dr. Abeken says:

“But the most interesting point connected with this locality, is a number of in-
scriptions engraved partly on the rocks, partly on the walls built against the moun-
tain, as substructions to the buildings. They are short, containing a date with a
king’s name from the above-mentioned Twelfth Dynasty (most by Amenernha III.)
and beginning with a hieroglyphical group, which at ﬁrst sight it was evident could
mean nothing but the height of the Nile at that date, being literally Month or Opening
of the Nile. We were ﬁrst struck by these inscriptions on some fallen blocks on
the eastern bank, where it was evident from the position of the inscriptions that
they had been engraven before the stones had fallen; afterwards we found many of
them on the eastern bank in their original place, but at a height which the Nile
never attains now, being no less than 9-10 metres above the present highest water.
These ancient water-marks, therefore, appear to prove that before the time of the
Shepherds, the Nile, in that part of Nubia, must have risen much higher than at
present; and do support, I think, most conclusively, the opinion that at that period

 

