400 names um.

I was tempted on and on by the sound of a waterfall, which, pouring i
down from the foundations of an old ruin. made a charming about:
bath. What a luxury was our daily revel in cold water, after outre-
cent weeks of Desert traveling ! 1
Meantime, the gentlemen found the shrine of old Pam—from when
the place derived its most ancient and most modern name ; the Roma
name by which it was known at the time of the New Testamenthis-
tory being intermediate between the two. We went to it. the nut
morning; and an extraordinary place we found it. In a precipitous
face of rock is a large, dim grotto,—perfectly dry when we werethere.
and showing no trace of the passage of waters. A ﬁg tree issued fine
a crevice in the cave, and, reaching the roof, and thence drooping in
large leaves, ﬁlled the place with a soft green light. In the depth of l‘
the recess was a niche,—empty now; for the great Pan is dead!
Above the cave, in the face of the rock, is a large niche ; and other! .
are beside it, each at a lower height, till two just show themselves above i
the stony ground. These niches are arched 03' with graceful sheﬁ
ornaments; and in one of them is the base of a statue, showing but
it had been occupied. These were the shrines of the N ymphs; not
empty ;—for the Nymphs ﬂed when the great Pan died. Whenl
used to read, over and over, that ﬁne old story of how, when the hu-
venly host told the shepherds at Bethlehem of the birth of Christ!
deep groan, heard through all the isles of Greece, told that the gum
Pan was dead, and that all the royalty of Olympus was dethroned. 80"
the several deities were sent wandering in cold and darkness, how litﬂc
did I dream that I should ever visit any spot where the noble fable I
would ap ear like historical truth! Yet here was the place! A5
Osiris hacf passed away before; and the widowed Isis, who was to i
have mourned him eternally, had also melted away; and Pan, whether ‘
another or the same, succeeded him in the homage of men ;—so Pan. ‘
in his turn, retired and humbled himself when this beloved fountain of
his was taken from him. and called Jordan, and then pined and died
when one was born by whom his empire was overthrown. It was
when he thus retired, in the decline of his glory, that this spot assumed ‘
its Hebrew sanctity ;—a sanctity miserably understood and expressed»
as we see by the setting up of golden calves to Jehovah, as the
Amun of the Hebrews, on this northern limit of the Promised Land. 1
and at the source of its great river; and before it was hallowed afrelh
at the death of Pan, Herod here offered his ﬂatteries to Roman power. 1
by building a great palace for the Emperor, and calling the old Pauilml
by the name of Cmsarea Philippi. This was the name of the place
when he came hither whose Gospel of Peace was disarming and de-
throning the old idols of mankind. Hither he came, not waging W?
with idols or with men, but walking among these hills, asking of 111!
followers,‘ “ Whom do men say that I, the Son of Man, am 2" and
then charging “ his disciples that they should tell no man that he W
Jesus the Christ.” Here it was that he made those promises to Peter
of high office in his approaching kingdom, on which the Romish ebul'ﬁlI

 

- Man. XVI. 13, 20, Mark vm 27, so.

