' nannooa. 131

CHAPTER XII.
DENDOOR.—K ALKB’SHEH.—BIGGEH.—PHIL(E.—LEAVIN G NUBIA.

Or the temple of Dendoor there is little to say, as it is of Roman
time, and there-fore, only imitative Egyptian. It has a grotto behind,
in the rock; and this grotto contains a pit; so I suppose it is a place
of burial. The temple is sacred to the great holy family of Egypt,
Osiris, Isis, and Horus; and the sacred chamber contains only a ta-
blet, with a sculpture of Isis upon it, and a few hierogl phio signs.
The quantity of stones heaped in and about this little temp e is remark-
able. *

I took a walk over the rising grounds behind till I lost sight of the
temple and our boat and people; and never did I see anything wilder
than the whole range of the landscape. There was a black crag
ravine on either hand, which must occasionally, I should think, be t e
passage of torrents. There are rains now and then, however rarely,
in this country; and when they do come, they are violent. Some of
the tombs at Thebes bear mournful witness of the force with which
torrents rush through any channels of the rOcks that thegv can ﬁnd.
Not only were these ravines black, but the whole wide lau scape, ex-
cept a little peep of the Nile, and a bit of purple distance to the north,
and two lilac summits to the south, peeping over the dark ridge. No-
thing more dreary could well be conceived, unless it be an expanse of
polar snow; yet it was exquisitely beautiful in point of color—the
shining black of the whole surface, except where the shadows were
jet, the bright green margin of the inch of river; the white sheikh’s
tomb behind the palms on that tiny spot; and the glowin amethyst of
the two southern summits—these in combination were 30!? and brilliant
to a degree inconceivable to those who have not been within the tropics.
There was a bracing mild wind on this ridge, which, by reviving the
bodily sense, seemed to freshen the outward world; and truly 30%1
was to return. This was my last gaze upon tropical scenery too. e
were to leave the tropic this afternoon, at Kalib’-sheh.

I suppose even such an out-of-the-way region as this may be en-
lightened now and then as to foreign customs by the return of wander-
ing traders or voyagers. I saw today on the eastern shore a house
which might have been built by an European ; its front neatly painted
red and white; its doors yellow; and its windows of glass. It was
Llaced with its back to the prevailing north wind ; and it had a regu-

r approach between buttresses. Two houses near had glass windows
also. Some adventurous Nubian has come home a great man, proba-
bly, and is astonishing the natives with his outlandish ways.

While we were at‘ dinner 03' Kalib’-sheh, the pe0ple came down to
the shore, and made a market. When their wares were ranged, they

