202 smart urn.

geh looked ﬁne as we approached it, with its tall minarets, its thick
Frove behind, and the range of mountains on the other side of the blue
ine of river. The rocks were red in the sunset, and the hostly moon
was stealing up behind them as we reached the shore. W en the after-
glow had died away, and the moon had assumed her glory, it was plea-
sant to sit watching the currents of the river in the trail of golden light
she cast.

 

CHAPTER XVIII.

BENEE HASAN.—MASGOON.—PYRAMIDS 0F DASHOOR AND SAKKARA.
-—MEMPHIS.-—MUMMY PITS.—CONSECRATION 0F BRUTES.

IT is safe and easy now to visit the caves of Benee Hasan; but it
was dangerous or impossible a quarter of a century ago. The village
now lies apparently rooﬂess and mined; but it is still inhabited to a
certain extent, and by peOple of good character. It was formerly a
pirate village. When no boat on the river was safe from pillage in
passing Benee Hasan, and murders became frequent, [braheem Pas'ha
took the matter in hand. He brought his troops round the hills, sur-
prised the place in the night, and shot almost every individual in it—
man, woman, and child.

The village is seen from a ravine a little above the caves. From
this point, the further view is of the rich valley and its winding river;
but the near view is wild enough. Down t is ravine trotted a very
large fox, which, from its size, looked at ﬁrst like a jackal. Some of
the lower strata of the rocks are worn away, leaving the upper parts
overhanging. Strange boulders are perched at intervals along the
brink of the ravine, some being cut sheer through, like felled trees;
and those which were entire exactly resembling (and they were all
alike) large petriﬁed sheep without their heads. Similar boulders
stood at intervals on either side the great road, easily traceable from
the front of the caves, which led up the steep, from the boats to the
tombs.

Up this road came the funeral processions, to the caves which are
opened in the strata of the rock. We must remember how very long
ago this was. We must remember that Josephus, in hisnational van-
it , desired to make out that the Hebrews were descended from the
S epherd Race of invaders, and falsiﬁed history for the purpose; and
then, we must remember that some of these tombs were sealed up be-
fore the Shepherd Kings entered Egypt. As that hated host swept
conquerin by, and perhaps looked up at these rocks as they passed,
some of t ese tombs were occupied and closed—their walls being co-
vered with the paintings which were before our eyes this day. The
tombs I speak of beer date from the latter part Of the First Period.
They are the oldest known monuments in the country, except the
Pyramids.

