174 names am.

which are happening afar, and of foreknowing events which are future
—sometimes spontaneously, and sometimes by means of an agency pur-
posely employed ;—knowing, on the other hand, that history abounds
with records which everybody believes more or less, of prophecy, of
preternatural (so-called) knowledge, of witchcraft, unaccountable sympa-
thies, and miraculous cures; we have every reason to suppose that the
Egyptian priesthood encountered and held the facts which some of us
encounter and hold, and employed them as sincerely and devoutly as
they employed other facts in natural philosophy. It is probable that
the oracles were true: and we have no right to doubt that the priests
believed them true—as earnestly as they believed that they could cure
the sick whom they carried into their temples, and on whose heads the
religiously laid their hands, with invocations to the gods. The faculties
which drew the attention of Bacon and others are found more vigorous,
more spontaneous, and more easily excitable among orientals than
among ourselves. If we ﬁnd, by the half-dozen, merely by opening
our minds to the fact, cases of far-seeing, and fore-seeing, and curative
power, it is probable that such cases were familiar to the heathen priest-
hoods of old; and that they sincerely believed that persons so gifted
held a revealing commission from the gods. While fully aware of the
means necessary for eliciting the faculty, and using those means, the
priest might wait on the speech of the oracular somnambule, believing
it to proceed from the veritable inspiration of the god. This is not the
place for bringing together the evidence that exists about the dealings of
the Egyptian priests with the sick and inﬁrm: but it is curious; and it
shows no cause for the assumption that they were jugglers, or in any
way insincere in their practice. They probably believed that they
should give relief by the “ touching with the hands,” which, as Solon
tells us, “ will immediately restore to health,” when soothing medicines
are of no avail; and by that “ stroking with gentle hands" which
Eschylus says was to be had on the N ile:"Ir and they were probably!
justiﬁed in their belief by the results. Nothing but a very large pro-
portion of cures will account for the continued celebrity of any seat of
health during a sequence of many centuries.

As to the oracles, there were many in Egypt; and they were fa-
mous from the earliest times of which we have any record. The two
most celebrated were those of Amun Ra, in the Oasis of Amun; and
that of Buto in the city of that name.‘l Herodotus tells a curious story
of the establishment of the oracles of Amun Ra and of Dodona.1 He
heard two versions ;—one from the priests of Amun at Thebes; the
other from the priestesses of the oracle at Dodona. The Greek priest-
esses told him that two black doves were carried off from Thebes;
one of which went into the Lybian Desert, and the other came to Do-
dona, perched on an oak, and spoke, saying that it was the will of the
king of the gods that he should have an oracle there. The dove which

"' Prometheus to lo: “There Zeus will render you sane, stroking you with gentle
hand and simply touching you.” This sanctuary at Canopus was celebrated for the
cures wrought by the god.

Herod. II. 83. 1 Ibid. 54, 55.

