anion Imus. 443

quence of the Primitive Will and the ﬁrst-conceivedldea, or Intelli-
gence; which Will and Idea must be carried out into action. Many
as as had taught this doctrine,.in various countries, for centuries; but1
I 0 not know that any one before Simon Magus attempted to exhibit
any Personiﬁeations, beyond that of divine messages in their own per-
sons. But Simon went to a length which proves what his own enthu-
siasm must have been, to induce toleration from his own mind, .and
from others. He presented to his followers the second person of -his
triad in the form of awoman named Selena, whom he called the Divine
Idea. He himself assumed to be God; or, let us suppose, a manifes-
tation of the spirit of God: and he was received as he desired. Justin
Martyr, 1n his Second Apology, mentions a pillar which in his time
existed at Rome, and which bore inscribed “Simoni Deo Sancto:’ ’and
Irenreus says, “ This Simon, therefore, was received by many as God. ”
The Simonian doctrine was, brieﬂy,.that from this Virgin-mother En-
no'l'a had sprung a secondary order of beings, by whom the world was
created and all things done, under the limitation that the progeny was
to remain ever attached to the parent, —the Active Agency to the Pri-
mal Thought. The progeny were disobedient, and held the mother
captive, while they wrought all manner of abuses, and confounded ideas
of good and evil. The Law of Moses and the prophets were declared
(under the Samaritan prejudices of the philosopher), to share the con-
fusion of the work of these fallen agents. Restoration could be hoped
for only through the Teacher, who had come upon earth in a human
form, to redeem mankind from their fall from their original purity, by
bringing them a renovation of their nature. He presented himself to
them as being “at once the Image of the true Eternal Father, the true
Son and Messiah of God, and the true Holy Spirit. ”* Simon and
Selena were worshiped as Jupiter and Minerva, also. How strange
it is, no one can imagine who has not felt it, to ﬁnd in Simon Magus
the meeting point of so many ideas in a mind which once never
dreamed of any connection among them. When in my childhood, I
read of the first case of Simony in Christian society, the case from
which the sin took its 11ame,—and pitied the sincere but low-minded
convert who met with such rebuke and punishment from Peter, how
little did I dream that the idea of this man would expand till I should
see inhim the chief of False Christs, the personiﬁer of the allegories
of the East, the Osiris of a known age, a JUpiter within our era, and
the latest association of interest with the soil of Samaria, whose ear-
liest interest arises from its being the territory of the children of Jo-
seph! The blame of corrupting Christianity by the infusion of his
doctrine into the traditions of the disciples, is not due to Simon him-
self. He opposed the disciples, and their converts, and his disciples
opposed each other; but we have no reason to believe that he so far

' Salvador, “Jesus Christ et sa Doctrine," I. 200, 201. Irenzeus, as cited by Sal-
vador, says, “ Hic igitur Simo a multis quasi Deus gloriﬁcatus est, et docuit semetip-
sum esse qui inter J udtros quidem quasi Filius ndparuerit, 1n Samaria autem quasi
Pater descenderit, et in reliquis vego gentibus quasi Spiritus Sanctus adventﬁrit. "—

Irmadm. Hera. Lib. I. cap.2

