32 EASTERN urn.

CHAPTER III.

NILE INCIDENTS.—CREW.—BIRDS.—FACE OF THE COUNTRY.-TI-IE
HEAVENS.—TOWNS AND SHORES, BETWEEN CAIRO AND ASYOOT.

As we swept up the broad river, we passed some ﬁne houses, shel-
tered by dark masses of acacias; and presenting, to the river, spacious
overhanging balconies, and picturesque water-wheels. My friends
said this was very like the Bosphorus. Presently, Cairo arose in the
distance; backed by the white citadel and the yellow range of the Mo-
kuttam hills, with their ﬁnely broken outline. On the western shore
was El Geezeh, with its long range of hospital buildings, relieved by
massy foliage, behind which towered the Pyramids; and further on
were more Pyramids, lessening in the distance. We were aground
once and again within an hour; and while we were at dinner, we drove
upon a shoal with a great shock. This was not the way to overtake
the Scotch party, whose boat could not be supposed ever to get aground;
and our Rais was informed that if he struck again, he should be basti-
nadoed. The wind was too fresh to allow of our dining on deck; and
the sun was declining behind the palms when we went down to the
cabin. When we came up again, the yellow glow remained, while the
rich foliage of the eastern shore was quivering in the moonlight. Jupi-
ter was as lustrous as if there had been no moon. The breeze now
fell, now rose; and the crew set up their wild music,—-the pipe and
drum, with intervals of mournful song. * ‘ ‘

I do not know whether all the primitive music in the world is in the
minor key: but I have 'been struck by its prevalence among all the
savage, or half-civilized, or uneducated people whomI have known.
The music of Nature is all in the minor key ;—the melodies of the
winds, the sea, the waterfall, birds, and the echoes of hleating ﬂocks
among the hills: and human song seems to follow this lead, till men
are introduced at once into the new world of harmony and the know-
ledge of music in the major key. Our crew sang always in unison.
and had evidently no conception of harmony. I often wished thatI
could sing loud enough to catch their car, amidst their clamor, that I
might see whether my second would strike them with any sense of
harmony: but their overpowering noise made any such attempt hope-
less. We are accustomed to ﬁnd or make the music which we call
spirit-stirring in the major key: but their spirit-stirring music, set up
to encourage them at the oar, is all of the same pathetic character as
the most doleful, and only somewhat louder and more rapid. They
kept time so admirably, and were so prone to singing, that we longed
to teach them to substitute harmony for noise, and meaning for mere
sensation. The nonsense that they sing is provoking. When we had
grown sad under the mournful swell of their song, and were ready for

