246 EASTERN ms.

passage of anything so large. ~They are very peremptory, having no
idea of stopping for anybody. Notice of their approach is'given by the
crack of the courbash of the outrider who precedes them, and any one
who does not get out of the way on that signal must take the conse-
quences. 0n comes the vehicle, jolting and rocking, and ﬁlling the
narrow way; and young and old, blind and seeing, must squeeze them-
selves up against the bazaar front; and a loaded camel must'meet the
shock as it may. It is worse, however, to ride in one than to meet it.
In our drive to the hareem which we visited, we were kept in a con-
tinual agony, so many were the people we drove against. The keep-
ing of carriages was much on the increase before there was any pro-
vision” for them. A friend of mine found one in his street when he
went to live there, four years and a half before my visit; and now there
are twenty-four or twenty-ﬁve, making the passage of the street very
hazardous. Since I left Cairo. a wide street has been begun, extending
from the Ezbekeeyeh to the Citadel—a great convenience to the Pasha
and the Franks, but a ruinous innovation upon the oriental appearance
of the city. The Frank residents, however, now give up the oriental-
ism of Cairo; and I was perpetually told by them that I was looking at
a half-European city—but my own impression is that it is as like as
possible to the pictures in the Arabian Nights—so that, of all the cities
that I have seen, Cairo is the one which may be the most easily ima-
gined at a distance, in a superﬁcial way, provided the notions of a
mosque, a bazaar and an eastern house are once obtained from pictures.
The one unimaginable circumstance is the atmosphere. No conception
of the light, shade, and color can be conveyed; and they are an hourly
surprise to the stranger in Cairo, to the last.

The mosques are extremely interesting; partly from their architec-
tural beauty; more so from their purposes, and the pleasure of seeing
those purposes falﬁlled. Nothing charmed me so much about them
as the spectacle of the houseless poor, who find a refu e there. In
the noble mosque of Sultaun Hasan, when we had mounte a long ﬂight
of steps from the street, and more stairs which led to the barrier where
we must put on slippers, we entered a vast court, sacred to all who
have hearts, whether they be heathens, Mohammedans or Christians,
for the solace and peace which are to be found there. The greater
part of this court was Open to the sky; its ﬂoor was of inlaid marble;
and in the centre was the tank where the worshipers perform their
ablutions before praying. The steps to the roofed platform at the upper
end were matted; and on these steps some men were at pra er. On
the platform sat a man making a garment,—-spreading out his c oth upon
the mat, and running the seams, as much at his ease as if he had been
in a home of his own. This was a homeless man ; and here he was wel-
come. Several poor people were sitting talking cheerfully; and under
this roof, and on this mat, they were welcome to sleep, if they had no
other place of rest. Some children were at play quietly on the marble
pavement. We are. accustomed to say that there is no respect of per-
sons, and that all men are equal, within the walls of our churches; but
I never felt this so strongly in any Christian place of worship as in this

