what the destruction nut have been. The banks were falling in den
ig the few hours ofourstay; and here.asin similar plmweobseh
red that the river was more turbid than usual. These local accidents
mastlargelyaﬂ’ectthegreatquestionofthe rateofrisingofthebedof
the river, and, in consequence. that of the whole valley: a question
which some have attempted to determine by a comparison of the dates
of the buildings at Thebes with the depth of the sand accumulated
above their bases. - '

The next place where we went ashore, Girgch. once stood a quar-
terof a mile inland: it is now in course of being washed down. It
is a miserable place, as might be expected, with such a fate hangi
over it. We staid here an hour. for the purchase of bread. fowls, an
a sheep. We gave 30 paras (lid.) for a fowl; 6s. for a sheep; and a
piastre (2i (1.) for 42 eggs. The small bazaars had few people in them
at this hour (7 a. m), and of those few many were blind; and on our
return to the boat. we found a row of blind people on the bank, hopin
for baksheesh. The millet stalks here measured eleven feet; and 0
course, the ﬁelds are a perfect jungle. We saw occasionally the millet
stalks burnt. and strewn over the ﬁelds for a tep-dressing. At other
times we observed that where the millet had been cut, wheat was sown
broadcast among the stubble, which was left to rot. The onl manur-
ing that we saw, besides this top-dressing, was that of the wartime with
pigeons’ dung; and the qualifying of the Nile mud with sand from
the desert, or dust out of the temples, brought in frail-baskets on the
backs of asses.

Two of our sapient crew having quarreled at mess about which
should have a particular morsel of bread, and fought noisily on shore,
the Rais administered. the bastiuado. The ﬁrst was laid down. and
held by the feet and shoulders. while ﬂogged with a boat-pole. He
cried out vigorously. The other came forward cheerfully from the
ﬁle, and laid himself down. The Rais broke the pole over him : but
he made no noise, jumped up. spat the dust out of his mouth, and went
to work at the tow-rope, as if nothing had happened. They seem to
bear no malice, and joke with one another immediately after the bit-
terest quarrels. One of our Nubians wears his knife in a sheath,
strapped about the upper part of his left arm. Another wears an
amulet in the same manner. Two who came from Dongola have
their faces curiously gashed with three cuts on each cheek, and four
on each side of the eye. These cuts are given them by their parents
in childhood, for beauty marks.

We now began to meet rafts of pottery coming down from Kenneh,
the seat of the manufacture of the water jars which are in general use.
Porous earth and burnt grass are the chief materials used. We meet
seven or more rafts in a group. First, a layer of palm fronds is ut
on the raft; and then a layer of 'ars; then another layer of each. ' he
jars all have their months out o the water. They are so porous that
their conductors are continually employed in emptying them of water:
that is, they are always so employed when we meet them. Not being
worth sponges, they dip in and wring out cloths, with strings to them.

