/

'rnntn Patron. - 95

wards “ knew not Joseph.” 0f Joseph’s administration of the affairs
of Lower Egypt we know more than of the rule of any other minister
of the Pharaohs. I have walked upon the mounds which cover
the streets of Memphis, through which Joseph rode, on occasion of
his investiture, and where the king’s servants ran before him, to bid
the people how the knee. And when at Heliopolis, I was on the
spot where he married his wife,—the daughter of the priest and gover-
nor of On, afterwards Heliopolis.

It was in the early part of this Third Period of the Egyptian Mon-
archy that CecrOps 1s supposed (fable being here mingled with history)
to have led a colony from safe, and to have founded the kingdom of

,Athens,‘ beginning here the long series of obligations that Greece, and

K through Greece Rome and the world, have been under to Egypt. It

is almost overpowering to the imaginatiOn to contemplate the vast an-
tiquity of the Egyptian empire, already above two thousand years, in
the day when Cecrops was training his band of followers, to lead them
in search of a place whereon to build Athens ;—in a day long preced-
ing that when Ceres was wandering about the earth in search of her
daughter. '

.It was about this time that a still more important event than even
the founding of Athens had taken place. We all know how a certain
Egyptian lady went out one day to baths, and what was found by her
maidens 1n a rushy spot on the banks of the Nile. That lady was the
daughter of one of the Pharaohs of Memphis, at a time, (as some think ,)
shortly before the union on one head of the crowns of Upper and
Lower Egypt. When she brought home the child found among the
rushes, she little thought that that infant head was to become the organ
of a wisdom that should eclipse the glory of Sesostris, and mainly de-
termine the spiritual destinies of the human race, for a longer course
of centuries than even Egypt had yet seen.

When the Shepherd Kings and their army were driven out of Egypt,
many of their people remained as slaves, and were employed on the
public works. The Hebrews were also thus employed ;-—latterly on
the fortiﬁcations of Thoum and Heliopolis; and the Egyptians con-
founded the two races of aliens in a common hatred. From the pre-
valence of leprosy among the Hebrews, and other causes, they were
considered an unclean people ; and they were sent by the Pharaoh of
their day, under the warning of the priests, to live by themselves in
the district allotted to them. Whether the Pharaoh who opposed the
departure of this army of slaves was Thothmes III., or his son, Amu-
noph II. ., or some later king, 15 undetermined: but it is believed on
high authority that it was Thothmes III. ,1 and that he reigned many
years after the Exodus. The date of the Exodus is agreed upon as
about a. c. 1491, whoever was the Pharaoh reigning at the time.
There is no assertion in the Mosaic narrative, that Pharaoh himself
was lost in the Red Sea,1 nor that the whole of his host perished: nor
is there any allusion in the Song of Moses to the death of the sovereign:

' I. c. 1556. 'I' Wilkinson’s Ancient Egyptians, I. p. 54. 1 Ibid., L p. 55.

