soonrrv at same. 257

was warned to be prudent, for my party’s sake even more than my own.
But I wish some few of the manyl met abroad who know the truth of
mesmerism would unite to institute a course of experiments on Arab
subjects. All the naval surgeons I met in the Mediterranean know the
truth of Mesmerism as well as I do, and admit its importance: so do
some eminent naval oﬂicers there; and the Physician of the French
Embassy in Egypt; and the gentlemen from India who have witnessed
what Dr. Esdaile and the Bengal Government have done; and Mr.
Lane, and the Bishop of Jerusalem; and, in short, every man of edu-
cation, who has really attended to the subject. Among them, there
are some who think most of the curative powers of Mesmerism; but
there are others who see how inﬁnitely more important and inte-
resting are those of its facts which belong to Mental ph-ilosOphy, and
who feel what an illustrious foreigner expressed to me, in London, not
long ago: “It is a shame for your country that it should be behind
every other civilized nation, in regard to this portion of science. It is
strange that men should be slow to investigate a powerful curative
means. But when the same agent shows that man has a new faculty
of the mind,—a faculty hitherto not numbered among his powers,—
what can one say to indifference to such a discovery as than—the great-
est that Man has ever made, or can ever make! It is a shame for your
country!” If others of our countrymen abroad will follow Dr. Es-
daile’s example in using their opportunities, they may yet redeem us
from the disgrace we lie under with the educated classes of every coun-
try in Europe, for our want of a true philosophical spirit of inquiry and
teachableness in regard to the facts of Mesmerism. However, we are
wiser than we were a few years ago: and it is now a rare thing, I be-
lieve, to meet an educated person who does not regard the subject with
seriousness and candor, and, after inquiry, with undoubtiug belief to a
greater or less extent.

Cairo is indeed a pleasant place to spend a few iveeks in, at the
season of the year when we were there. Besides the delightful tem-
perature, and its Arabian wonders and beauties, there is some agreeable
society. The Hotel d’Orient and Shepherd’s Hotel were quite full
during our stay: and I believe there is seldom a time when many Eng-
lish do not meet at Cairo,—some coming from home on their way to
India, or for traveling objects, and others arriving from India for health
or holiday. Then, there are the European Legations, with their hos-
pitalities and agreeable society. And the kindness of Mr. and Mrs.
Liederof the Prussian Mission is known to everybody who has need-
ed a welcome, or aid, or guidance in that strange city, so far from home.
There is another privilege, accessible to few, but of inestimable value
to the traveler in Egypt, which I was permitted to enjoy ;—inter-
course with Mr. Lane and his family. There is no need for me, or
any one, at this time of day, to say anything of Mr. Lane personally.
His opinions and character have long taken their rank;—a rank so
high that it is a sort of impertinenee for a passing traveler to present
them. But I have been so often asked since my return home what it
is exactly that Mr. Lane is about at Cairo, and it concerns the best

17

