352. names urn.

two of my companions to witness the inaccuracy of the view from this
point, given by Laborde. We were 011 the precise spot whence the
sketch was taken, as was shown by a number of neighboring objects.
It was the distance that was in fault. Before us rose a lofty barrier of
rock which, of course, closed in the view: but in Laborde we have, in
place of this rock, a ﬁne retiring distance, and long perspective of fa-
cades, and a spacious-valley with a meandering river, such as was
never yet seen in Petra. It is a serious matter giving false impres-
sions of a place at once so remarkable and so little visited as this. In
marking, in his plan,'the Silt as “ the only entrance to the town,” La-
borde may have followed Diodorus, who says there was but one way
in, and that artiﬁcial: though he should not have repeated this without
verifying it: but the elaborate view, with its non-existent valley and
stream, is a gratuitous piece of misleading, for which I see no excuse.

The effect is ﬁne of the lofty rock springing straight up from the
back range of seats. Shallower steps than the seats run up the mid-
dle. This theatre is supposed to have seated about three thousand

eo le. ,
p Vge next crossed the deﬁle, and climbed to the extraordinary exca-
vation whose platform is supported by ranges of arches in solid mason-
ry. The obtaining a platform was clearly the object here: and prodi-
gious labor it has cost, in. tier over tier of stone arches. Several of
these are entire and visible, among the heaped ruins of others. The
platform supports lateral colonnades,—the only lateral colonnades here.
Above these colonnades were deep square holes, which indicated ex-
cavations on a second story behind. .At least, we supposed so: and
there were clearly upper chambers in the central portion of this tem-
ple: above these, above cornices, and pediment, and {at a vast height,
was the crowning urn. The central chamber is very large, and not
less than forty feet high. Its walls are like those of the Khasne, merely
chiseled: and it contains nothing but the little partition walls which
the modern Arabs have built up of loose stones. The walls were gay
with the purple, red, and gray streaks which Dr. Robinson compares
to “ watered silk,”—as our companions did to mahogany.

While we were here, a series of strange wild heads popped up from
below the platform,—showing that the ragged regiment of the Sheikh
of Petra was upon us. Suleiman, Sheikh of 'Wadee Mensa, and of the
tribe Aulad Benee Israel,-was here in person. His followers were a
dark and wild-looking set of fellows, with their ready match-locks,
daggers and spears, as could be seen: but they never did us any harm,
nor offered any. The Sheikh came to demand his fee of 100 piastres
per head, for our entrance into Petra and abode there: and this being
immediately paid, he was thankful and quiet. How different a state
of things from that which existed so lately as the visits of Burclthardt,
and Captains Irby and Mangles!

This evening, our friend Hussein suddenly remembered that he had
forgotten two things. He had shown himself very expert, from day to
day, in so visiting the tents, and making demands of the dragomen, as
to obtain his coffee and tobacco from our company, and charcoal and

