m rams. 178

faith, one way or another, in what they taught. And there seems every
reason to believe this now of the Egyptian priesthood, who taught more
extraordinary things perhaps than any other. If we do but put our-
selves in their places foran instant, we may perhaps see how many
things may have been venerable and true to them, which we, with our
knowledge and our ignorance. our experience and our prejudices, do
not know how to treat seriously at all.

To them, nothing was so.wonderfnl, so mysterious, so important as
Life and Organization. Their purity of life and habits—their taking
but one wife, and banishing all indecency from their temple rites—
enlightens us to much that we might reprobate otherwise in the illus-
trations of some of their festivals, and a few of their doctrines. Perhaps
they were wiser than we are in their reverence for natural instincts;
and they were certainly not wrong in thinking life and its production
the most sacred and the most real, and therefore the most important
fact with which the human race can have concern. When they by de-
grees led the people down into gross brute-worship (if indeed it is true
that they did so), they certainly misapplied or ill-conveyed their reverent
appreciation of the great fact of life; but the fault was in the misappli-
cation, and not in the philosophy which recognized. in life, wherever
found, something altogether sacred, before which the human intellect
must bow down, as an insoluble mystery. I am sure that we are wrong
in the other extreme, in the levity or utter thoughtlessness with which
we regard the races of inferior animals, which have shared with ours,
for thousands of years, the yet unsolved mystery of sentient existence,
without sharing with us anything else than what is necessary for the
support of that existence. We know no more of the experience, one
may say, the mind, of the cattle, the swallows, the butterﬂies, and worms
about us than if they lived in another planet. They and man have met
hourly for all these thousands of years without having found any means
of communication; without having done anything to bridge over the
gulf which so separates them, that they appear mere phantoms to each
other. The old Egyptian priests recognized the diﬁculty, and made a
mistake upon it ;—disastrous enough. We, for the most part, commit
the other great mistake of not recognizing the mystery. We are not
likely ever to embody our consciousness of it in any form of brute wou-
ship; but we are hardly qualiﬁed to criticise those who fell into that
perhaps sublime error in the early days of human speculation.

Then again, about their Oracles, Magic, and Medicine ;—it is need-
less and therefore unjust, to attribute to them any artiﬁce or insincerity.
All who have duly inquired into that class of natural facts, know that
among human faculties exist those of perception or apprehension of
distant and of future events; and some powers of sympat etic operation,
whose nature and limits are as yet but little understood. Those powers
are as yet but too little inquired into, notwithstanding the example and
exhortations of Bacon, Cuvier, Laplace, and other philosOphers who
were rendered by their philosophy meek enough to learn from 'nature.
Finding, as we do, indisputable proofs that at present the human being
is capable of various states of consciousness, and of knowing events

