368 smart ms.

letting his top-knot stream in the wind, and ga110ped- away again, raising
the sand in clouds wherever it was dry enough. Then, what a hubbub
there was! The guards were mustered, the camels driven together
in a mass, the sheikhs ﬂying about, and giving notice that we were to
be attacked by Bedoueens from behind the sandhills. The matchlocks
were made ready, and swords and knives looked to. Just at this
moment, when I was at the heightof expectation of seeing the grandest
of Desert sights, an old ne ro camel-driver ran up, snatched the rein
out of my hand, and trotted my camel away, pulling it forward with
all his strength. By every sign I could think of, I ordered him to
give me my rein: but the old fellow was as imperious as I could be;
and we were nearly out of sight of our guard before I came in the way
of a dragoman who could compel the man to do as I wished. I rode
back, but met some of my party, who said we were to wait till the
rest of the caravan came up. There was a gathering and delay behind ;
and soon a message arrived that one of the ladies had fainted,—not
from fear, but previous illness,—and could not come on. Here we
waited an hour, near a pretty little oasis; a jungle of reeds and bushy
palms. When the alarm seemed over, we dismounted, and set under
a thorny-acacia. We wondered whether this little affair was real or
a sham; but agreed that if it was a sham, the drivers were not in the
plot. Their alarm was real enough.—Long afterwards, when we were
in Syria, we learned that the matter was indeed serious. Shaikh Hus-
sein was smuggling us through the territory of a tribe with whom
he should have shared the money paid for our passage. The old man
was really terriﬁed, but paciﬁed the Bedoueens by some means, so
that they let us pass now: but they rose on him, on his return, shot
his beautiful horse under him, and killed six of our escort. Poor
fellows! it was no fault of theirs.

At the end of an hour, we saw the rest of the company slowly ap-
proachiug, and we mounted; but we went on only for a few minutes—
to the foot of the white hills which we were to cross the next day.
We heard no more of the robbers; but there was a different kind of
robber in the camp at night,—a wolf which, no doubt, came after our
sheep. One of the gentlemen saw it; but it was gone before he could
get his gun ready.—l think it was this evening that Mr. E. came in,
in a hurry, to order our rice to be boiled for some of the men,—having
discovered that our camel-drivers had lived upon grass for two days.
The Sheikh had provided no food for them. The matter was now be-
coming serious. We went a shorter distance every day, and were
perpetually delayed from the inability of the baggage-camels to keep
up with us. Our‘owu beasts were feeble; yet my driver had more
than once jumped up behind me without leave. He was forbidden
to do this again, as the beast was in no condition to carry double: but
I believe the man was almost as little able to carry himself.—There
was much doubt this evening whether our invalid companion could
proceed to-morrow; for she was very ill. Happily, there was an
excellent mesmerist in the company, who tried his power upon her

