36. mum mu.

course, to go ashore as often as possible, and to mount every practica-
ble eminence. I found this so delightful, and every wide view that I
obtained included so much that was wonderful and beautiful, that mount-
ing eminences became an earnest pursuit with me. Icarried compass
and note-book, and noted down what I saw, from eminence to emi-
nence, alon the whole valley. from Cairo to the Second Cataract.
Sometimesﬁ looked abroad from the top of a pylon; sometimes from
a rock on the banks; sometimes from a sandy ridge of the desert;
sometimes from a green declivity of the interior; once from a mountain
above Thebes, and once from the summit of the Great Pyramid. My
conclusion is thatI diﬂ'er entirely from those who complain of the
sameness of the aspect of the country. The constituent features of
the landscape may be more limited in number than in other tracts of
country of a thousand miles: but they are so grand and so beautiful,
so strange, and brought together in such endless diversity, that I cannot
conceive that any one who has really seen the country can complain
of its monotony. Each panoramic survey that I made is now as dis-
tinct in my mind as the imagesl retain of Niagara, Iona, Salisbury
Plain, the Valais, and Lake Garda.

Our opportunities of going ashore were not few, even at the beginning
of our voyage, when the wind was fair, and we sailed on, almost continu-
ously, for three days. In the early mornings, one of the crew was sent
for milk, and he was to be taken up at a point further on. And if, towards
‘ night, the Rais feared a rock, or a windy reach ahead, he would moor at
sunset; and thisallowed us nearly an hour before it was dark enough for
us to mind the bowling jackals. When the wind ceasedto befriend us,
the crew had to track almost all day, following the bends of the river;
and we could either follow these also, or strike across the ﬁelds to some
distant point of the bank. And when on board, there was so much to
be seen on the ordinary banks that I was rarely in the cabin. Before
breakfast, I was walking on the deck. After breakfast, I was sewing,
reading, or writing, or idling on deck, under the shade of the awning.
After dinner we all came out eagerly, to enjoy the last hour of sun-
shine, and the glories of the sunset and the after-glow, and the rising
of the moon and constellations. And sorry was I every night when
it. was ten o’clock, and I must go under a lower roof than that of the
dazzling heavens. All these hours of our ﬁrst days had their ample
amusement from what we saw on the banks alone, till we could pene-
trate further.

There were the pranks of the crew, whose oddities were unceasing,
and particularly rich in the early morning. Then it was that they
mimicked whatever they saw us do,—sometimes for the joke, but as
often with the utmost seriousness. I sometimes thought that they
took certain of our practices for religious exercises. The solemnity
with which one or another tried to walk the deck rapidly, to dance,
and to skip the rope, looked like this. The poor fellow who laid
hands on the skip ing-rope paid (he probably thought) the penalty of
his impiety. At the ﬁrst attempt, down he came, ﬂat on his face. If
Mr. E. looked through his glass, some Ibraheem or Mustafa would

