198 assure: me.

shabbiness in eating with the poor Nubians (the Cairenes having all by
this time quarreled) while' laying by his own money for his wife,—he
having neither parents nor children to maintain. The way in which
this was told to us showed that the maintaining of parents was regarded
quite as a matter of course. It is to be feared that the parents’ need of
it is too much a matter of course, in the present state of that order of
society in E t. 1

'Of the temp e of Dendara I will say ngthing. The oldest names it

benrs are those of Cleopatra and her sonCsasarion; and it has not
therefore the interest of antiquity; while its beauty is of the same kind
as that of the lens temple. ‘t Dendara, as at Isna, the Pasha has
caused the building to be cleared out; for which the world is obliged
to him: and it would have been more so, if he had not run a mud-brick
w'all directly up against the middle of the front; so that no complete
view of the portico can be had from any point. However, we must
thankfully accept any conservative aid we can obtain, and hope to re-
molvlzr in course of time, any blemishes as manageable as mud-brick
wa .
On Saturday, January 23d, we made an excursion of some import-
ance :—to Abyd us, which stood near, if not, as some scholars think, on
the spot where This was built—This, the old capital of Upper Egypt,
where sixteen kings reigned before Thebes was heard of. It will be
observed that as we are coming down the river, we are ascending the
stream of Time. . Thebes, built chieﬂy by monarchs of the Third
Period, appeared very ancient when we were there. We are now
(supposing Abydus to be the site of This), carried back to the First
Period. The only other ancient monuments now remaining for us to
see were the Caves at Benee Hasan, whose dates are of the latter part
of the First Period; and the Pyramids, and the cluster of remains about
them; which are the very oldest of all, hearing date from the early part
of the First Period. If we this da stood on the site of This, we were
standing on the buried metropolis o powerful monarchs, who ﬂourished
here wrthin a few centuries of the building of the Pyramids ;——some-
where between four and ﬁve thousand years ago.

We left our boat at Beliane, and were to rejoin it in the evening at
Girgeh, a few miles down the river. We rode for above two hours
through a rich plain'which bore crops-of wheat, barley, lupins, vetches,
lentils, a little ﬂax, beans and sugar-cane. The barley was turning, in
some places, and the beans were in blossom, and some beginning to
pod. They grow tall, but are less strong in the stalk than with us. I
had a good opportunity to-day of observing the supplies of water in the
interior of the country. More than one curious point depends on
whether the whole supply of water is derived from the river, or whether
there are any springs whatever near the mountains. I should not have
doubted the supply being wholly derived‘from the river, but from the ”
decided declaration of one resident who certainly ought, from his func-
tion, to understand the matter. But his declaration that the interior of
the country is watered partly by springs, was contradicted by so many
—one of these being Linant Bey—as to convince me that it was mis-

