. Juseoort. 207

heartily enjoyed, to the last moment, our boat life, and felt really melan-
choly when packing up our books and papers for the Cairo hotel.
We had still, however, two more days from the present date to spend
on board.

0n the evening of the 7th we walked on shore at Masgoon. where
we stopped in order to visit,the next day, the Pyramids of Dashoor and
Sakkara, and the remains of Memphis. When we had passed the vil-
lage and groves, we saw in the desert such an array of pyramids as
justiﬁes Strabo’s description of them as being all along the brow of the
hills. The people here look comfortable, though their district is the
property of Abbas Pasha, who is not noted for conducing to the comfort
of humanity. This village and its lands are a present to him from his
grandfather, the Pasha. He gives the people the land, seed, and irri-
gation, and takes half the produce. Such are the nominal terms, which,
in Egypt generally, are something widely different from the actual bar-
gain. The palms here are very ﬁne. The wool, which the people
were spinning and reeling, was white ;—the ﬁrst white wool I remem-
ber to have seen. The dlstaﬂ's were clumsy; but both men and women
were as heartily busy as the could have been about better work. The
children were ludicrously alyraid of us; and not even baksheesh could
reconcile them. We were to them, no doubt, what the dreaded “black
man” is to cottagers’ children in England. One little boy ﬂed like the
wind from the offer of a ﬁve para piece; and he could hardly be per-
suaded to take it from behind his mother’s skirts, where he sought
refuge. A large quantity of mud bricks. was here laid out to dry.
They had an unusual proportion of straw in them; so that I believe
they would have burned to ashes if set ﬁre to. This naturally brou ht
to mind the brick-making of the Hebrews, who were from about tins
time never out of In mind till we reached Damascus. We were on
their traces now; an afterwards all through our journeyings in Arabia
and Palestine. All the next day I saw them in the plain of Memphis ;
saw the remains of the heavy works in which they might have toiled;
in the brick-ﬁelds, and in the cucumber and melon rounds which ’
. yielded the food the so lon ed for in the Desert. hen Ilooked
upon those fruitful p ots, neat y fenced with millet stalks; and upon
the bright verdurewhich spread like a carpet beneath the palms,—-a
carpet of the richest clover ;—and upon the blue ponds inland, and the
noble river ﬂowing gently between its fertile banks, with family groups
basking in the evening sun above the stream, or sitting in the checkered
shade of the acacia groves, I could understand the longin of the He-
brews for a return to Egypt on any terms. From the mi st of such a
desert as I had seen at Aswan, what is such a scene as this to the
memory,—-a sunset among palms, ponds, clover-ﬁelds, and acacia
groves, near the adored Nile! Might not this contrast make any exile
as heart-sick to think of as the image of any country under heaven..—
unless going from slavery, he was worthy of the freedom in store for
him; which the Hebrews were not, and could not become on a sudden.

While we were on shore this evening, Mrs. Y., who had remained
on board, was not without amusement. Our crew, always like chil-

