428 nas'rmm urn.

I bade adieu many times over to the Dead Sea: for it reappeared
unexpectedly again and again. Up and up we went, for four hours,
over stony hills, and windin round the bases of others, and through
deﬁles, and over stretches 0 table land, scantily grassed : and then up
'hills again, following tracks which were at times hardly erceptible;
but from point to point catching aview of the Dead Sea, ti we seemed
to command its whole length. At last, it lay like a great pond among
its hot mountains, its deep blue paled into a gray, with streaks of white
light above it, wherever there was a dark back ground. It is a singular
object from such an elevation.

The approach to the Con vent of Santa Saba is wonderful. The tracks
became so clear as to show that we were approaching water and habi-
tations. They led now down to the dry bed of Kedron, and now up
the sides of its ravine, till we entered upon a road cut out of the rock,
and fenced with a wall of loose stones on the side next the gorge. This
road overhangs the ravine for, I think, about two miles. The sides of
the chasm are very precipitous; but the grassy ledges here and there
show that they were once terraced: and fragments of walls near the
innumerable holes in the rocks show the traveler that here he is in the
midst of the haunts of the old anchorites. The monks say that ten
thousand of them lived here: and some old writers declare that there
were fourteen thousand in Santa Saba’s time. What a place to live
in l—so hot and dreary at best, and most awful in tem est! In such
storms as belong to this country, this gorge must be ike the day of
doom :—no room for the lightning, and the thunder rolling continuously,
as the echoes will not let it die! Cyril, the Monk of Jerusalem, and
John Damascenus, and Euphemius lived here; and here young devo-
}ees were sent, to try whether they could bear monastic life in its severest

orm.

Saint Saba was a monk of the fourth century, who had great powers
of attraction, if, as is declared, he drew hither fourteen thousand ancho-
rites, and enticed waters from the hard rock. There is a spring in a
cavern at the bottom of the gorge which he created miraculously for the
use of his followers in this parched region. The monks of his convent
live under a very severe rule, never eating ﬂesh, and mortifying their
feelings of Christian compassion by never admitting any woman within
their gates, under any stress of weather or other accident. There are
handsome accommodations for gentlemen,I was told, but of course I
did not see them. Mohammedans are almost as fearful as women to
the monks of Santa Saba, and they cannot enter the convent without
liabilit to a large ﬁne. We knew this beforehand. and we therefore
carrie tents enough for the ineligible members of the party, while the
gentlemen hoped to get lodgings within its walls.

It is an extraordinary place—its buildings so plunging down the pre-
cipice as to make it difﬁcult to say how much of the mass is ediﬁce. and
how much natural rock. We dismounted on a platform before the
great gate—a gate substantial and secure enough to serve for the Bank
of England. The platform was small, and dreadfully hot. Flies
swarmed in the tents, where there seemed to be not a breath of air.

