warms scan“. 445

with their asses, carrying corn to the city. The stone villages on the
heights were striking, as we found them everywhere in Palestine.

Beer, ten miles from Jerusalem, was on a hill to the right. 'I‘ravelers‘
usually stop there, the ﬁrst night after leaving the city: but we in-
tended to proceed to Einbroot: and when we reached Einbroot, we

were disposed to go further. We had not left Jerusalem till near

noon; and the afternoon and evening were charming. We were once

more alone too,—our party of four, with servants; and the saving of
fatigue by the smallness of our number was great. We expected to

meet the rest of the caravan at Nazareth, or at least at Damascus ; and

meantime, it was more convenient, from the character of the country,

to travel in smaller parties. An accident retarded the largest party, so

that we had left Nazareth before they arrived; and we saw no more

of our Desert comrades, except of two of the gentlemen, who were at
Damascus when we arrived.

Einbroot is beautiful on its hill, with its richly tilled slopes and val-
leys undulating all about it. and its olive trees casting their long even-
ing shadows on the red soil. The road was very narrow and stony,
between terraces of corn and groves of olive. Just pass-Einbroot, we
descended into a hollow, and then rose again, and came out upon a
green waste place, where the cattle were drinking at an old-fashioned
well. Then we entered a cultivated valley, where a promontory of
the richest green, lustrous in the last rays of the sun, crossed our path.
Winding round it, we entered the shadow, and watched the sunshine
withdrawing from the heights. The valley narrowed to a ravine ;- and
there were holes, like tombs, high up in the rocks on either hand. The
wild-ﬂowers madeia garden of this glen; and I saw, for the ﬁrst time,
a honeysuckle in full blossom, climbing the rock to a great height.

Where this ravine narrowed to a pass, we observed the remains of
a very substantial building, which locked like a fort. It was on our
left hand ; and just beyond it, sunk in a platform of rock, under a pre-
cipice garlanded with ferns, was one of the beautiful old pools of the
country. It was now 6 P. 11., and we were glad to ﬁnd that we were
to encamp beside the pool, on the platform. under the precipice. I
hastened back on foot to the honeysuckle, and brought home a charm»-
ing handful of ﬂowers.

While we were at dinner, a sound of scuﬁling was heard outside: and
when Alec next entered, he was out of breath. We afterwards head
the whole story; and we were amused to ﬁnd how zealous our Mo-
hammedan servants could be in the cause of “ Christian inﬁdels.”
Some Arabs, with their loaded mules, had come with the intention of
encamping beside the pool: and, on ﬁnding the ground partly occu-
pied, though there was plenty of room left, they became abusive, and
wondered aloud what business these damned Christians had in their
country. Alec resented this,.and threw the speaker down over the
tent-ropes. There was then a sharp scuﬂle; and the cook coming to
help, and the Arabs falling onerupon another over the tent-pegs in the
dark, they had the worst of it, and went uﬂ' vowing vengeance. We
heard no more of them, however.

