'rnn HABBII. 267

bad state of things, and the beginners under an improving system must
ever be sufferers—martyrs of their particular reformation. To this
they may object less than 'others would for them, if they are conscious
of the personal honor and general blessing of their martyrdom.

The youngest wife I ever saw (except the swathed and veiled brides
we encountered in the streets of Egyptian cities) was in a Turkish ha-
reem which Mrs. Y. and I visited at Damascus. I will tell that story
now, that I may dismiss the subject of this chapter. I heartily dreaded
this second visit to a hareem, and braced myself up to it as one does
to an hour at the dentist’s, or to an expedition into the city to prove a
debt. We had the comfort of a good and pleasant interpreter; and
there was more mirth and nonsense than in the Cairo hareem; and,
therefore, somewhat less disgust and constraint: but still it was pain-
ful enough. We saw the seven wives of three gentlemen, and a crowd
of attendants and visitors. Of the seven, two had been the wives of
the head of the household, who was dead: three were the wives of
his eldest son, aged twenty-two; and the remaining two were the
wives of his second son, aged ﬁfteen. ’The youngest son, aged thir-
teen, was not yet married; but he-would be thinking about it soon.
The pair of widows were elderly women, as merry as girls, and quite
at their case. Of the other ﬁve, three were sisters :—that is, we con-
clude, half-sisters ;—children of different mothers in the same hareem.
It is evident at a glance what a tragedy lies under this ; what the hor-
rors of jealousy must beamong sisters thus connected for life ;—three
of them between two husbands in the same house! And we were told
thatthe jealousy had begun, young as they were, and the third having
been married only a week. This young creature, aged twelve, was
the bride of the husband of ﬁfteen. She was the most conspicuous
person in the place, not only for the splendor of her dress, but because
she sat on the deewén, while the others eat or lounged on cushions on
the raised ﬂoor. The moment we took our seats, I was struck with
compassion for this child—she looked so grave, and sad and timid.
While the others romped and giggled, pushing and pulling one another
about, and laughing at jokes among themselves, she never smiled, but
looked on listlessly. I was determined to make her laugh before we
went away; and at last she relaxed somewhat—smiling, and growing
grave again in a moment: but at length she really and truly laughed;
and when we were shown the whole hareem, she also slipped her bare
and dyed feet into her pattens inlaid with mother-of-pearl, and went
into the courts with us, nestling to us, and seeming to lose the sense of
her new position for the time: but there was far less of the gayety of
a child about her than in the elderly widows. Her dress was superb;
-—a full skirt and bodice of geranium-colored brocade, embossed with
gold ﬂowers and leaves; and her frill and rufﬂes were of geranium-
colored gauze. Her eyebrows were frightful—joined and prolonged
by black paint. Her head was covered with-a silk net, in almost every
mesh of which were stuck jewels or natural ﬂowers: so that her head
was likea bouquet sprinkled with diamonds. Her nails were dyed
black; and her feet were dyed black in checkers. Her complexion,

