EGYPT AND ITS FAITH.

CHAPTER I.
FIRST SIGHT OF AFRICA—FIRST SIGHTS IN AFRICA.—ALEXANDRIA.

Mv ﬁrst sight of Africa was on a somewhat lurid November evening,
when the descending sun marked out by its red light a group of purple
rocks to the westward, which had not been visible till then, and which
presently became again invisible when the sun had gone down behind
them, and the glow of the sky had melted away. What we saw was
the island of Zembra, and the neighboring coast of Tunis. Nothing 1n
Africa struck me more than this its ﬁrst phantom appearance amidst
the chill and gathering dusk of evening, and with a vast expanse of sea
heaving red between us and it.

My next sight of Africa was when I came on deck early on the
morning of the 20th of November. A Lybian headland was looming
to the south-east. Bitb bit, more land appeared, low and gray; then
the fragments united, an we had before us a continuous line of coast,
level, sandy and white, with an Arab tower on a single eminence.
Twice more during the day we saw such a tower, on just such an
eminence. The sea was now of a milky blue, and lustrous, as if it
were one ﬂowing and heaving Opal. Presently it became of the lightest
shade of green. When a tower and a ruined building were seen to-
gether, every one called out “Alexandria!” and we expected to arrive
by noon: but we passed the tower and ruins, and saw only a further
stretch of low and sandy coast. It was three o’clock before we were
in harbor. ——When we came on deck after dinner, we found that we
were waiting for a pilot; and that we ought to be growing impatient,
as there was only an hour of daylight left, and the harbor could not be
entered after dark. There was no response from a pilot-boat which
we hailed; and one of our boats was sent off to require the attendance
of the pilot, who evidently thought he could ﬁnish another piece of
business before he attended to ours. He was compelled to come; and
it was but just in time. The stars were out, and the last brilliant
lights had faded from the waters, before we anchored. As we entered
the harbor, there was to the south-west, the crowd of windmills which
are so strange an object 1n an African port: before us was the town,
with Pom ey’ 9 Pillar rising behind the roofs: further north, the Pasha’ s
palace an hareem, with their gardens and rows of palms coming down

