93 smart am.

the valley.‘ Thus the priests of Thebes told Herodotus; saying that
Menes made the dykes, by which the land was reclaimed, on which
Memphis afterwards stood. It must strike every one that this period,
5600 years age, must have been one of an advanced civilization; such
a work as this embankment requiring scientiﬁc ideas and methods,
apt tools, and trained men. The priestsascribed to this same king the
1 building of Memphis, and of the great temple of Phthah (answering
to Vulcan) in that city. They read to Herodotus a long list of sove-
reigns (three hundred and thirty) who succeeded Mensa; of whom
one was an Egy tian woman, and eighteen were Ethiopian kingsJ’
That there shoulcr have been a temple of Phthah implies the establish-
ment of a priesthood. That a woman should have occupied the
throne, seems to imply the establishment of a principle of hereditary
succession; or at least, it tells of the subordination, in this early age,
of force to authority. That there should have been Ethiopian sove-
reigns among the Egyptian implies a relation between the two coun-
tries, whether of warfare or commerce. During all this time, the plain
of Thebes lay bare.

The next sovereignty that was established in the valley was at This,
about sixty miles below Thebes. A succession of monarchs reigned
pere—some say sixteen, some more—while the plain of Thebes still
ay bare.

While these sovereigns were reigning at This, and before Thebes
was heard of, the kings of Memphis were building the Pyramids of
Geezeh. It is certain that the builders of these pyramids were learned
men. How much science is requisite for the erection of such ediﬁces
need hardly be pointed out ;—-the mathematical skill and accuracy;
the astronomical science shown in the placing of them true to the car-
dinal points ; the command of mechanical powers which are at this day
unknown to us; and the arts of writing and decoration shown in the
inscriptions which covered their outside in the days of Herodotus,:l:
though the casing which contained them is now destroyed. In the
neighboring tombs, however, we have evidence, as will be shown here-
after, of the state of some of the arts at that date: and I may mention
here that the sign of the inkstand and reed-pen are among the repre-
sentations in the tombs. There is nogdoubt as to who built the Pyra-
mids. Colonel Howard Vyse found the kings’ names inscribed in
them. When the Pyramids were built, it was a thousand years be-
fore Abraham was born, and the plain of Thebes still lay bare.

Now we must turn southwards, and look over as far as Dongola.
For a long way above the Second Cataract, there are no monuments.
This is probably owing to the river not being navigable there, so that
there were no trading stations. There are obvious reasons why tem-
ples and other monuments should rise where commerce halts, where
men congregate, and desire protection of person and property, and ex-
ercise their social passions and affections. So, for the twenty-ﬁve
days’ journey where the river is impracticable, there are no monuments.

- Herod. II. 99. 1 Ibid. 100. 1 Ibid. 125.

