'rnn snnrnnn mos. 99

Then some occur of rather a modern date :, and far beyond them—up
in Dongola—we come upon traces of a time when men were traﬁck-
ing, building, and worshiping, while yet the plain of Thebes lay bare.
To this point did the sovereigns of Memphis and of This extend their
hand of power; erecting statues as memorials of themselves, and by
their subjects, trading in such articles of use and luxury as they de-
rived from the east. While the Ethiopian subjects of these early Phar-
raohs were building up that character for piety and probity which
spread over the world, and found its way into the earliest legends and
poems of distant nations, the plain of Thebes still lay wild and bare;
-——not one stone yet placed upon another. ' ‘ 7

And now, the time had arrived for the Theban kings to arise, give
glory to the close of the Old Monarchy, and preserve the national name
and existence during the thousand years of foreign domination which
were to follow. In the course of reigns at which we have now ar-
rived, El—Karnac began to show its massive buildings, and the plain of
Thebes to present temptation to a foreign conqueror. .

We have now arrived at the end of the First great Period of ascer-
tained Egyptian history ;--a period supposed, from astronomical cal-
culation and critical research, to comprehend 889 years. A dark and
humiliating season was now drawing on.

Considering the great wealth and power of the kings now reigning
at Memphis and at Thebes, we are obliged to form a high opinion of
the strength of the Shepherd Race who presently subdued Egypt.
Whence they came, no, one seems to know—further than that it was
somewhere from the East. Whether they were Assyrians, as some
have conjectured, or the thnicians who were encroaching upon the
Delta at a subsequent time, or some third party, we cannot learn, the
Egyptians having always, as is natural, kept silence about them. The
pride of the Egyptians was in their agriculture and commerce; and to
be conquered by a pastoral people, whose business lay anywhere
among the plains of the earth, rather than in the richly-tilled, narrow
valley of the Nile, was a hard stroke of adversity for them. So, in
their silence, all that we know of their strong enemy is that the Shop-
herd Race took Memphis, put garrisons in all the strong places of
Egypt, made the kings of Memphis and Thebes tributary to them, and
held their empire for 929 years: that is, for a time equal to that which
extends from the death of our King Alfred to our own; a long season
of subjugation, from which it is wonderful that the native Egyptian
race should have revived. This dark season, during which the native
kings were not absolutely dethroned, but depressed and made tributary,
is commonly called the Middle Monarchy. It is supposed to extend
from n. c. 2754 to n. c. 1825.

About this time, a visitor arrived in Egypt, and remained a short
while, whose travels are interesting to us, and whose appearance
aﬁ'ords a welcome rest to the imagination, after its wanderings in the
dim regions of these old ages. The richest of the thnicians who
found themselves restricted for room and pasturage by the numbers of
Chaldeans who moved westwards into Syria, found their way, through

