our nossvs. 129

stirring music in the world to the Nile peasant; just as the Alp-horn is
to the Swiss. It tells of provision, property, wonted occupation, home,
the beautiful Nile, and beloved oxen. Any song would be charming
with such a burden. But to us it was a mere dismal creek; and when
it goes on in the night, as happens under a thrifty proprietor, I am told
it is like a human wail, or the cr of a tortured animal. So much for
the operation of the‘same sound t rough different ideas! The shed of
this sakia was reall pretty ;—inhabited by a sleek ox, and a sprightly
boy-driver; shaded y a roof of millet-stalks, and hung over with white
convolvulus and the purple been of this region. Our Dongola sailor
caught up a little romping boy from among his companions, and brought
him on board by force. The terror of the child was as great as if we
had been ogres. I could not have conceived anything like it, and should
be glad to know what it was that he feared. His worst moment of
panic seemed to be when we offered him good things to eat; though his
companions on shore were by that time calling out to him to take what
we offered. His captor forced some raisins into his mouth; and his
change from terror to doubt, and from doubt to relish when he began
to taste his dose, was amusing to see. Raisins were not a bribe to de-
tain him, however; he was off like a shot, the moment he was released.
I suppose his adventure Will be a family anecdote, for many generations
to come.

The ﬁrst view of the temple from a distance is very striking,—its
area pillars standing forth from the rock, like the outworks of the en-
trance gate of a mountain. This temple is of the time of the great
Ramases, and is dedicated to Phthah,—the god of Artisan Intellect and
Lord of Truth:*——not the god of Truth, which has its own representa-
tive deity; but the possessor of truth, by which he did his creative
works. He is the efﬁcient creator, working in reality and by funda-
mental principles, and not by accommodation or artiﬁce. The scara-
beus was sacred to him (though not exclusively) and the frog: the lat-
ter as signifying the embryo of the human species; the former, as some
say, because the beetle prepares a ball of earth, and there deposits its
eggs, and thus presents an image of the globe and its preparation for
inhabitancy. However this may be, here we have the creative god,
the son of Kneph, the ordaining” deity, at whose command he framed
the universe. It may be remembered that this was the deity to whom,
according to tradition, the ﬁrst temple was raised in Egypt;—when
Menes, having redeemed the site of ‘Memphis from the waters, began
the city there, and built the great temple of Phthah, renowned for so
many ages afterwards.—Memphis and this Garf Hoseyn former] bore
the same name, derived from their deity :——viz.,Phthahei or Thyp thah.
His temple has been found by some travelers as imposing as any on the
Nile. It has been compared even with Aboo-Simbil. This must be
owing, I think, to the singular crowding of the colossi within a narrow
space; and perhaps also to the hoary, blackened aspect of this antique
specs. The impression cannot possibly arise from any beauty of true

' Wilkinson’s Ancient Egyptians, IV. 250.

