uncut. 121

pleasure which so grew upon us. that we felt real grief when it came
to an end. I, for one, had suspected beforehand that this work would
soon become one of mere duty or routine: but we found, even before
we left Nubia, that we were hardly satisﬁed to sit down to breakfast
without having explored a temple. ~

 

CHAPTER XI.
IBREEM.—DIRR.—SUBOOA.—DAKKEH.——GARF HOSEYN.

WHILE at breakfast the next morning (January 8th) we drew to
shore under the great rock on which stands Ibreem, the station of R0-
man and Saracenic garrisons, in times when it was necessary to over-
awe Nubia, and protect the passage southwards. It was animportant
place during the wars of Queen Candace with the Roman occupants
of Egypt and Nubia. It appears that the word Candace was probably
a title and not a pmper name,—-it being borne by a series of EthiOpian
queens;—a curious circumstance by itself. 0f the Queen Candace
who marched against Ibreem (Prémnis) we are told by Strabo that she
was a woman of masculine courage, and had lost an eye.

We saw from our deck some grottoes in the rock, with paintings in-
side; and longed to get at them: but they were so diﬂicult of access,
(only by a rape) that Mr. E. went alone. They are of the time of the
great Ramases and three earlier sovereigns of the same period. The
painting is still vivid; representing votive offerings. There are some
very small statues in high relief at the upper end.

I could not be satisﬁed without mounting the cliﬂ’: and from its sum-
mit I obtained a view second only to that above Aysoot. I could now .
understand something of the feeling which generates songs in praise of
Nubia; for many charming spots were visible from this height,——re-
ceases of verdure,—small alluvions, where the cotton shrub was covered
with its ellow blossoms, and crops of grain and pulse were springing
vigorously. On the Arabian side, all looked dreary; the sandy areas
between its groups of black crags being sprinkled with Sheikhs’ tombs,
and scarcely anything else; and the only green being on a promontory
here and there jutting into the river. The fertility was mainly on the
Lybian shore; and there it must once have been. greater than now.
Patches of coarse yellow grass within the verge of the desert, and a
shade of gray over the sand in places, seemed to tell of irrigation and
drainage now‘ disused. A solitary doum palm rose out of the sand,
here and there; and this was the only object in the vast yellow ex-
panse, till the eye rested on the vast amethyst mountains which bounded
all to the south and west. Some of these hills advanced and some
receded, so as to break the line: and their forms were as strange and
capricious as their disposition. Some were like embankments: some
like round tumuli : some like colossal tents. The river here was broad
and sinuous; and, as far as I could see,,on either hand, its course was

