ems. 363

et ceteras from the servants. He now went the round to declare that
he had forgotten to say that he must have a robe.(no triﬂe!) from each
tent, and a sheep from each individual of the company :—ten robes,
and ﬁfteen sheep. He got nothing by remembering this at last.

It had been cool weather all day: and this evening and night, it was
so chilly that we sat in our cloaks, and slept ill from cold—Our good
Bishara came to bid us farewell, and would not be satisﬁed without re-
peatedly kissing all the gentlemen. One, who was stooPing over his
writing, oﬂ'ered the top of his tarboosh for the salute, but was not al-
lowed to escape so. As for us ladies, we gave our hands to he kissed
with hearty good will; for we esteemed the worthy fellow, and were
sorry to part—In the morning, he was still there; but after we went
forth to the Sik, we saw him no more.

We were to have set forth at half-past seven: but we were detained
an hour by the disputes among the Arabs about the division of their
money.—As far as the Khasne, we went over the same ground as yes-
terday: and then we entered the Sik,—the most extraordinary entrance
to a capital city, from its indomitable wildness, that was probably ever
seen. This main street of Petra is about two miles long. Its width
varies from ten to thirty feet; and, it is enclosed between perpendicular
rocks which spring to a height of from one hundred to seven hundred
feet. These are singular conditions of a main street. It is paved and
drained, but badly lighted, for the rocks so nearly meet as to leave,
really and truly, only that “ strip of sky” which one often reads of,
but which I never remember to have before seen, ex'cept in being drawn
up out of a coal-pit. Captain Mangles speaks of the sky being com-
pletely hidden in places by the overlapping rocks above: but this
escaped my observation. The dimness, however, at the bottom of
this chink, where we were forcing our way among the tamarisks, wild
ﬁgs, and oleanders, was memorable enough—The pavement is of large
slippery stones, worn in places into ruts by ancient chariot wheels. A
conduit runs along, and a little above, the wayside,—a channel hol-
lowed in the rock: and in parts there are, at the height of thirty feet,
earthen pipes for the conveyance of water. 0n the face of the preci-
pices, sometimes upright as a wall for three hundred feet, are curious
marks left by more ancient men than those who paved the street, and
laid the water pipes :——shallow niches, and the outlines and ﬁrst cut-
tings of pediments; and tablets begun and discontinued. On looking
up, one sees a solitary tree, bending over the ravine from a height
which makes a mere bush of it. In the ﬁssures of the rock spring
brambles, the bright green caper plant, and ﬁg trees with translucent
young leaves, and roots and stems which accommodate themselves to
the crevices by inconceivable twists. Down the water-drips hang
bunches and strings of delicate ferns; and round the smooth curve of
some protruding rock lies an ivy garland, pushed forth from the recess
behind which is curtained with it. The homely mallow, the wild ge-
ranium and red poppy, spring in corners where there is a deposit of
earth, and skirt much of the way; and the pale blue forget-me-not lurks
in the hollows under the shrubs where there was lately a pool. On

23

