ram. 851

antiquity existing in Syria:” and other travelers have spoken raptu-
rously of it. I think much of the charm must be owing to their hav-
ing come suddenly upon it from the deﬁle of the Silt, after an anxious
and toilsome Desert journey, when every work of art, in a shady place,
and among thickets of oleanders, would appear beautiful. Its posi-
tion is wonderfully ﬁne; and its material and preservation very strik-
ing: but it is inconceivable how any one can praise its architecture.
This temple, called by the Arabs “ Pharaoh’s Treasury,” is absolutely
set in a,uiche. It stands in a cupboard, seeming to be made to ﬁt it
exactly. When I speak of its situation being wonderfully ﬁne, I do
not refer to this feature of it, which is good merely because it is una-
voidable,-there being no space in which a building could be placed in
these ravines. This peculiarity,—of a facade in a niche—is imposing
in its place: but the beauty of its position lies in its being at the meet-
ing point of two ravines, so that the Khasne suddenly confronts the
traveler who arrives by way of the Silt. The material is a pale rose-
colored stone, which is shown off most delicately by the dark shrubs
which grow before it. -

The height of the entire facade is between sixty and seventy feet.
0f the six columns, one has fallen; and the bases and capitals of others
are somewhat corroded. Above, there is an uninterrupted pediment,
between whose halves stands an “insulated cylinder," as Burckhardt
calls it; a sort of miniature temple, crowned with the urn which the
Arabs believe to contain Pharaoh’s treasure. They cannot bring them-
selves to pass it without a shot; and every man of them, unless pre-
vented, pops away at the urn, in hope of bringing down some of the
gold from the inside. There are elaborate carvings of garlands, &c.,
and many defaced has-reliefs. From what remains of these, we judg-
ed them to have been bad—The interior has nothing to show but
handsome space, the principal chamber being sixteen paces square, and
about twenty-ﬁve feet high.——A few broad steps lead to the portico, on
either hand of which is an ornamented door, leading to an empty side-
chamber. There is nothing in the main chamber: throughout the
whole building, no niche, or pit, or other sign of the place having been
put to any use. There are two small hollows, in which we fancied
we saw uncertain traces of has-reliefs : but the place is obviously un-
ﬁnished. There are no door-posts; and the walls within are merely
chiseled, and left rough.-In the near neighborhood of this temple, I
saw several ﬂights of steps, wandering away up the precipices. We
went but a few yards along the Silt, as we were to explore it fully to-
morrow; so we returned ﬁrst to the Theatre.

The Theatre !—in the place where Esau and his tribe came to live
beside the eagles! Here it was, however; its ranges of semi-circular
seats cut out of the rock. Its area is supported by massive masonry,
and not so encumbered with débris and vegetation as to prevent our
easily reaching the seats. I climbed to the top, in order to enter some
of the excavations ranged above,—at a great height. I found them
mere square cut, empty rock-chambers.

When on the top range of the seats of the theatre,I called one or

