112 name: use.

About thirty years before this annexation, Diodorus Siculus was in
Egypt. He probably witnessed the beginning of the building of the
temple of Dendera. He saw much religious ceremonial, which it is
curious to read of, though there is no saying how far it remained true
to the old ideas in which it originated._ The testimony of Diodorus as
to what happened in his own time is of course more valuable than his
essays in the ancient history: but the latter are interesting in their
way, as showing what were the priestly traditions current in the last
days of the Ptolemies.

As our object in this rapid view of Egyptian history is to obtain
some clearness of ideas in preparation for looking at the monuments,
we need not go into any detail of the times subsequent to the building
of Egyptian monuments or of the times of those Romans who erected
some temples, but whose history is familiar to everybody; I need only
say that, after the death of the last Cleopatra and her son Ctesarion, in
30 3.0., Egypt was annexed to the Roman dominions for seven hun-
dred years. At the end of that period, the ruler of Egypt had enough
to do to keep 06 Persian aggression. He bought off the Arabs,—a
stronger enemy,—for a time; but the great conqueror Amrou marched
in triumph from his capture of Damascus and Jerusalem, and, after
some struggle and mischance, tool: the great cities of Egypt, and sent
the libraries of Alexander to heat the baths of that city; for which
purpose, it is said that they lasted six months.

One of the ﬁrst visitors to Egypt after its annexation to Rome was
Btrabo, who went up the banks of the Nile with the Prefect, as far as
Aswan, and has left a full and- careful account of what he saw. He
enlarges on Alexandria, at that time a most magniﬁcent city, while
Thebes was a village, interspersed with colossal ruins. Memphis was
still great, ranking next to Alexandria: but Heliopolis was sunk, and
almost gone. Its schools were closed: but the memory of them re-
mained, on the spot, as well as afar: for the house was shown where
Plato and Eudoxus lived and studied. Would it were there still! At
present, there is nothing left visible of Heliopolis but its obelisk, and a
circuit of mounds. Strabo thought the place almost deserted in his
time: but what a boon it would be to us to see what was before his
eyes, within a few years of the Christian era!

Here, then, we stop; at a period which we have been wont to con-
sider ancient, but which, in regard to our object, is so modern as to
have no further interest or purpose which need detain us.

We now proceed to the monuments.

