16! 3mm urn.

tals rose from the pavement of the Dromos or course which formed the
avenue to the palace-temple of Amunoph, eleven hundred feet behind
the colossi. This palace-temple, once superb with its statues, co-
lumns, and sphinxes, is now a mere heap of sandstone ;-a little
roughness in the plain, when seen from the heights behind. The
sphinxes are at St. Petersburgh; the columns are broken off from their
bases; the statues peep out in fragments from under the soil. In the
days of the glory of Thebes, the Nile did not come here; but the whole
avenue, with all its erections, stood on raised ground—a magniﬁcent
sight from the river. The Nile itself has risen since those days ; and
in proportion to the raisin of its bed has been its spread over the plain;
so that the pavement of t e dromos, and the pedestals of the colossi,
have been buried deeper and deeper in mud; and must continue to be
so. Sand may be dealt with hereafter, for the rescue of the treasures
of Egyptian art; but it does not appear that the mud of the Nile can.
How strange it is to look forward to the gradual stiﬂing of these giants
-—sitting patiently there for more thousands of years, to be buried, inch
b inch, out of human sight! They now stand about ﬁfty-three feet
a vs the soil; and seven feet below it. But the mention of the total
height gives less idea of their magnitude than the measurement of the
limbs. From the elbow to the ﬁngers’ ends, they measure seventeen
feet nine inches ; and from the knee to the plant of the foot, nineteen
feet eight inches. ”

Today we saw, for the ﬁrst time, an old Egyptian palace; that of
Ramases the Great, so many of whose monuments we had visited
higher up the river. This palace of the Ramaséum (commonly and
erroneously called the Memnonium) is also a temple. The old Pha-
raohs brought their gods into their palaces, and also had apartments in
the temple; so that the great buildings of this metropolis were appro-
priated to gods and kings jointly. It is melancholy to sit on the piled
stones amidst the wreck of this wonderful ediﬁce, where violence incon-
ceivable to us has been used to destroy what art inconceivable to us
had erected. What a rebuke to the vanity of succeeding ages is here!
What have we been about, to imagine men in those early times childish
or barbarous,—to suppose science and civilization reserved for us of
these later ages, when here are works, in whose presence it is a task
for the imagination to overtake the eyesight!

I went ﬁrst to the propylon ; and it seemed to me, as I clambered
about its ruins, that the stones of this outwork alone would build a ca-
thedral. I found an inclined plane and staircase within the propylon,
and climbed till I could make my way no further, seeing glimpses
between the fallen blocks of the sunny plain and its mountain boundary.
Returning, I clambered over the ruins of the mere external face of the
propylon; and when [was doubting whether I had ever before performed
such a feat of climbing, I found myself, on coming out at the top, still
under the portal! What a teway it must have been! A loosened
jamb which slanted over my end made me feel as one might under a
falling oak. Looking through, towards the palace, I saw what at once
drew my eyes away from the ranges of columns, and perspective of

 

