nnaasw nun AT run stars or caars'r. 397

believed in a partial necessity; enough to authorize their doctrine of a
providence; but so partial as to permit them to punish heretical Opinion
severely, while they visited moral crime but lightly. Such is the ac-
count given by Josephus the Pharisee. They believed in the existence
of angels, good and bad; and agreed with the Egyptians in the asser-
tion that. the chief of the good angels,—the ﬁrst of the sons of the So-
preme, was uncreated, and capable of manifestation on earth, for bene-
ﬁceut objects. This was evidently the Osiris of the Egyptians, the
Logos of the Platonists, and the Second Person of the Trinity set forth
by the Platonizing Christians in a later age. They believed in bad
angels as well as good, and perpetuated that doctrine of a power of evil
.which in their time had been imported from other faiths, in direct oppo-
sition to the purer doctrine taught by Isaiah, xlv. 7. Their great re-
maining tenet was truly and exclusively Jewish ; that Jehovah was so
bound to his peeple as that he could not condemn nor forsake them,
but was obliged to grant them a Messiah, and eternal prosperity.—As
for their practical life, they were likened, as Josephus tells us. to the
Stoics: and they professed extreme and exalted virtue: but, by means
of their oral law, there was always an escape for those who desired
one; and the result seems to have been that while the most ostenta-
tious and conspicuous of the Pharisees were disagreeable and danger-
ous from their sanctimoniousness and legal morality, the majority of
them were much like other peOple,—good or bad more in pr0portion
to their natural constitution and position than through the abstract doc-
trines they held. That they held such docrines is, however, a matter
of the highest interest to us. That there were humble and teachable
Pharisees is as certain as that there are proud and selﬁsh Christians.
Nicodemus and Joseph of Arimathea, and other men who could stoop
to learn, were Pharisees.—Dr. Kitto, after speaking of their temper and
conduct, observes,‘ “ Of their doctrines, as far as they went, and as far
as they are noticed, Christ and his apostles appear to have thought more
favorably—or, at least, they are much preferred to the opposite doctrine
of the Sadducees.”

In opposition to the Pharisees,—the Traditionists,—arose the sect
of the Anti-traditionists, the Sadducees, whose doctrines are soon told,
as their profession consisted chieﬂy of negations. They denied the
existence of any spiritual beings but Jehovah himself, and therefore the
future existence of man. It is noticeable that in this, and in its neces-
sary consequence, their inexorable punishment of moral offences, they
were primitive Hebrews,+close followers of Moses. And they strictly
adhered to the recorded law, rejecting traditions altogether. They held
the doctrine of free-will to its utmost extent, which indeed was neces-
sary under their practice of inexorable retribution. The date of the
rise of this sect is not more clearly known than that of the Pharisees:
but it is evident that the doctrines of the Sadducees had a large inter-
mixture from the Greek: and they were held by the literary and tra-
veled men of the Hebrew aristocracy: by those who were most likely

' Palestine, p. 719.

