'rnn won or burn. 411

sured by Maundrell, and is 120 paces long, forty broad, and not less
than eight deep. There is never any water in it now : and there is
every reason to suppose it a part of the fosse which once separated
Mount Moriah from' Bez’etha. Icould not but wish that this might have
been Bethesda ; but it cannot be reasonably supposed so.

As we returned homewards, with our minds full of what we had
seen, we encountered in the street two men ﬁghting about a skin of
water. Three others soon joined; and a .more desperate combat I
never saw. ,- They fought as they might for freedom or life; and all
about a skinful of water, which was spilt in the struggle. Here was
the Arab “ intensity,” shown in this childish way !

In the evening the rest of the party went to the Church of the Holy
Sepulchre, to see the washing of the Pilgrims’ feet. In Rome,I might
have gone to such a spectacle: but here I could net. After having
visited such scenes in the morning, and having now Olivet and the
rising moon in view from our platform, I could notgo to witness mum-
merie‘s done in the name of Christianity, compared with which the
lowest Fetichism on the banks of an African river would have been
inoffensive—N or would I go the next day to see the miracle of the
Greek ﬁre in the same place.——This miracle has now dwindled down
into a show so little marvelous that one wonders how long the faith in
it will last. «Formerly, as every one knows, miraculous ﬂames used to
shoot out, red and green, from apertures on each' side of, and behind
the altar; and the Pilgrims rushed to light their torches, throwing each
other down, and trampling to death more or fewer who could notstand
the rush. Moreover, there was a feud between the Greek and Latin
Christians about which should remove the covering of the altar after the
ceremony; and lives were lost in this way. When Ibraheem Pasha
ruled here, he endeavored to keep order by going in himself, on one
occasion, among the crowd; but he unfortunately fainted; and his sol-
diers brought him out with great violence. So many lives were lost
on that occasion that a considerable modiﬁcation of the proceedings
ensued. The cloth is removed by the Mohammedan governor (a curious
transaction of Christian worship!) and now the ﬁre is diffused by
torches being handed out of these apertures, and carried round for the
Pilgrims to light theirs by,-—the ﬁre being still, for the present, called
miraculous. _ ”

According to the account the gentlemen brought home, the crowd
was very dense: the people were kept tolerably quiet by two rows of
Turkish soldiers, till the ﬁre appeared; but after the kindling of the
pilgrims’ torches, the hubbub was terrible to witness. The poor crea-
tures were perfectly frantic, not only shouting and gesticulating, but
leaping on one another’s shoulders. One of my friends, who never
uses strong language, told me “ it was like a holiday in hell.” Such is
Christianity at Jerusalem! ‘

We went that day to see David’s tomb, or the place of it. A mosque
is built over it,—outside the walls,—on Mount Zion. We were not
worthy to see the tomb itself,—neither Jew nor Christian being per-
mitted to approach it :—a most galling restriction to the resident Jews!

