CAI”. 24'

to know from what depth of ages the greatest of intermittent springs
had regularly gushed forth, to give life to an expecting nation, waitin
in hape along a line of two thousand miles. The priests who expresseg
to Herodotus such anxious fears for the Greeks, because of their de-
pendence uponthe clouds,could hardly have known of any such drought
as could parallel that of A'.n. 1200, or the would have moderated their
boasting, even if they had concealed the that. Among the few histori-
cal notices which remain appended by Manetho to the names of the
kings, such as “ During this reign” (ﬁrst king of the Second Dynasty),
“ a great landslip took place at Bubastis, and many perished,” I am not
aware that any relate to a failure of the Nile; or that there is any-
where a hint of even a tradition of such a famine as Abdallatif witness-
ed. It is probable that, in the daysfof high Egyptian civilization, when
Egypt was the granary of the world, better precautions were taken than
by succeeding races of inhabitants. It Seems more probable that men
so able as that old Egyptian aristocracy, should have kept ample stores
of food in reserve, than that the Nile should never have failed through
several thousand ears; or than that the memory of a great famine
should have been ost in the time of Herodotus.

Here, then, we leave the Nile, which has been the thread of our
discourse thus far. It has been before me,with all its antique interest,
and all its fresh young beauty, during whatever I' have written to this
point; and I must hope that my readers have caught’some sensations
of that interest, and some glimpses of that beauty, as they have fol-
lowed me. We shall see no more of it now, except as a mere line
noticed from the citadel of Cairo, and as a mournful parting vision on
gm evening of our ﬁrst encampment in the Desert.-—And now, to

airo!

 

CHAPTER XXI.

CAIRO—STREETS AND BAZAARS.—MOSQUES.—CITADEL.——FETE OF
THE BIRTH OF THE PROPHET—ENTRANCE OF THE MAHHMIL—
THE MAGICIAN.—-SOCIETY IN CAIRO—MR. LANE.

THERE are few gayer things in life, for one who chooses to be gay,
than a visit to Cairo. The stranger must use a few precautions against
the disturbance of his gayety; and then he may surrender himself
to the most wonderful and romantic dream that can ever meet his
waking senses. The most wonderful and romantic,—because there is
nothin so wonderful and romantic in the whole social world as an Ara-
bian crty; and Cairo is the queen of Arabian cities. Damascus is
usually ranked with Cairo; but, full of charms as Damascus is, (as we
may see by and by.) it is charmin for other reasons than its virtues as
an Arabian city; on which ground it cannot for a moment stand a com-
parison with Cairo. The precautions against seriousness which a stran-
ger must take are, ﬁrst, to forget that he is in Egypt; to avoid looking

