82 smart mm.

were from our dahabieh. Our rais and the rest of our crew were left
at Aswan, in charge of the boat and such of our property as we did
not take with us. Among those whom we carried up were two of our
quiet, serviceable Nubians. Among those who remained behind was
the buck, as we called him; perhaps the least serviceable of the whole
crew, and certainly the least quiet and most troublesome; but he was
so extremely amusing with his pranks that we missed him, during this
fortnight, more than we should a better lad. Our other bnﬂ'oon was
with us, the cook. An excellent cook he was; but I do not know that
he was much else, except a long story-teller and a-consummate cox-
comb. He was a bad riser in this (to him) winter weather; not a
good hand at giving us breakfast early; and we were therefore not
sorry that he declined going through the desert with us afterwards.
The manner of' declining, however, smacked of his coxcombry. “I!”
said he. “I go through ,the desert to Syria! No, no; it is all very
well for these English, whom nobody inquires after, to go and be killed
in Syria; but I am a man whose life is of importance to his family.
They may go without me.” And we went with a better man in his
place. During this Nubian voyage, however, he was in his glory—
among stranger comrades who would listen to his long stories. As I
sat on deck in the evenings, I used to see him at the bows, ﬂattering.
himself that he was doing his proper work; holding by the wings a
poor ﬂuttering turkey about to have his throat cut, and brandishing his
great glittering knife, in the energy of his story-telling. How many
times have I chafed at the suspense of one poor bird after another, thus
held, head downwards, till the magniloquent cook should have ﬁnished
his anecdote! He fed us well, however, making a variety very hon-
orable to him in the mutton, fowls and eggs which we lived on during
the voyage. Beef and veal have been out of the question since the
murrain in 1843. Since that time, the cattle have not been enough to
work the sakias, and of course there are none for food. Mr. Y. once
had the luck to fall in with a piece of beef—at least we were assured
it was beef—but the only good we got out of it was a lesson not to
look for beef any more. There is great variety to be made out of a
sheep, however, as our cook continually proved to us. I have said that
he succeeded well in our Christmas plum-pudding. The only ﬁre we
had last winter was that which he made with a pool of brandy in the
middle of our pudding. Almost the only failure he made was with a
goose which we got at Thebes. We thought much of this oose, as a
change from the everlasting fowls and turkeys; but the coo boiled it,
and it looked anything but tempting. His excuse was that he feared,
if he roasted it, that it would be “stiﬂ'”—meaning tough.

All the people on board, and we ourselves, found the weather cold
in Nubia; that is, in the evenings and mornings, for at noon it was hot
enough to make us glad of fans and water-melon. We entered the tro-
pic at three P. M. of December 30th, and from that time till our return,
we seemed sentenced to shiver early and late, in cold strong winds,
such as we had hardly met with in the more northerly parts of the
river. But the mild nights when we were at anchor were delicious—-

 

 

