290 names use.

their dwellings, and among their dress and food,—coming up from the
river, and down upon them in the very air. They could never be
elevated in views and character while subject to contempt as “ an un-
clean pe0ple” (as Manetho calls them), and to the wrongs of slavery.
—-They must be removed. ‘

They must be removed :-—but how and whither? They were
cowardly, selﬁsh, incapable of concert and of ﬁdelity to a leader’s pur-
pose,—as the bulk of a body of slaves must ever be. Rising in revolt
was out of the question. A stealthy ﬂight was equally impossible.
They must come out in a body, and openly, and under the sanction of
the government. And the superstition,—and yet more, the fears, of the
governing power must be wrought upon, till the sanction was given.

But then, where were they to go! The countries from which their
fathers had come were occupied by people as warlike as the Egyptians,
and as superstitious. The sunken Hebrews could neither possess them-
selves of these countries, nor be safer from idolatry than in Egypt.
They must be led into some empty place where, without disturbance,
they might learn to live. They must be led into the Desert. No one
knew better than Moses at this time, the privileges of life in the Desert.
He had witnessed the hardihood, the self-denial, the trusting poverty,
generous hospitality, and the comparatively pure piety of the Arab
tribes who lived in tents in Nature’s ascetic retreats. These were the
very qualities the Hebrews needed, and could never attain elsewhere.
It was not civilization and its lessons that they needed. Civilization
and slavery were indissolubly connected in their ideas. Discipline
was what they needed; and not that discipline from the hand of man
which must include more or less of slavery; but the discipline of Na-
ture, whose service is perfect freedom. Here, while relaxing from the
excessive toil which had broken them down, they were in no danger
from indulgence. Here, while learning endurance, it would not be at
the cost of that exasperation of feelings which had hitherto embittered
their hardships. They would learn that submission to Nature which
is as great a virtue as submission to Man is a vice. Here, among the
free winds, and bold suns, and broad shadows, with libcrt to rove,
and exemption from the very presence of Man, they mig t become
braced in soul, free in mind, and disciplined in body, till they should
become ﬁt for an ulterior destination.—No doubt, Moses reverted with
reverence to that prominent subject of Hebrew pride,—the greatness of
his forefadters; and his hope for his brethren took the form of raising
them into a state worthy of their origin. He thought of their father
Abraham, pious, powerful, and rich in the wealth of the Desert: and
he looked forward to the time when these sunken children of Abraham
might so awe the whole region as to sit down where they pleased be-
side the springs, and rove among the boundless wastes, and pitch their
tents anywhere under the starry sky, and then worship Jehovah before
the door. As dwellers in tents had their great forefathers been strong
and faithful to Jehovah; and by a life in tents must his brethren regain
the hardihood and simple piety which their race had lost.

While Moses was thus leading Jethro’s ﬂocks in the Desert, and

