T0!!! or osmn 183

but dwellers under the sun—inhabitants of the earth. The general le-
gend declares them to be “ the inhabitants of Egypt, and those of foreign
countries.” Four are red, the Egyptian conventional complexion; and
their special legend is“ the race of men; ” which savors of the conceit of
primitive patriotism. The next four have primrose-colored skins, and
are called “ N amou,”—(“Asiatics.”) The third set are altogether ne-

, in complexion and feature; and they are called “N ahasi,”—
“Africans.”) The fourth group are pale yellow again, and blue-eyed,
and dressed in barbaric fashion, with feathers in their hair,’but with long
ﬂowing robes. These are inscribed “Tamhou,” which Champol-

lion believed to designate a northern people, and probably Europeans.*

The rest of this hall is chieﬂy occupied by the reception of the departed
king by the gods. a ~

Next we come to, an unﬁnished chamber, where the drawings are
made for sculptures which have never been wrought. Here are the

, bold and free outlines which we cannot-but admire now; outlines which

__
_._

were corrected where faulty by the master hand with its red chalk pencil,
coming after the pupil with his black one. In one ﬁgure the arm was
made too long; and the rectiﬁcation by 'the master-the red outline over
the black, stands as light, fresh, and no doubt eﬁ'aceable, as in the hour
when it was made,—before the Great Ramases was born, or in his
childhood.

Then comes another staircase, and then more passages. with their
ceremonial paintings: and, at length, the great hall—which yet is not
the most interesting of these chambers of the grave. The most remark-
able thing in it that meets the eye is the picture of the states through
which the soul has to pass, after leaving the lower hemisphere, and enter-
ing upon the abodes of the sun. Of these abodes there are twelve, each
shown by a door valve, disclosing a mummy, and guarded by aserpent.
Each serpent has a name; and all have the legendd’ “ It dwells above this
great door, and opens it to the god Sun." One beautiful illustration is
of the connection of the deceased. with time. The mummy stands with
a chain round his neck, which is held by a procession of twenty-four
ﬁgures, each with a star over its head. These are the Hours; and in
another tomb I saw the same company, telling the season of the year
by their appearance; those betokening the night being dark, and stand-
ing near together; those betokening the day being lighter, and further
apart. If Champollion reads the legends of these spheres and spirits
in the tombs aright, we have some light as to the eXpectations of these
ancient worshipers. He translates thus, about the inhabitants of two
series of abodes: “These hostile souls see not our god when he casts
the rays from his disk: they no longer dwell in the terrestrial world;
and they hear not the voice of the great god when he traverses their
zones.” “ These have found grace in the eyes of the great god. They
dwell in the abodes of glory; those in which the heavenly life is led.
The bodies which they have abandoned will repose for ever in their
tombs, while they will enjoy the presence of the Supreme God.”i

' Champollion's Iattres sur l’Egypte. 1- lbid. 1 Ibid.

