ant run. 503

many others. If there is at present any government at all in the dis-
tricts we passed through, it is. difﬁcult to discern: and of course, the
precariousness of affairs is extreme.

We were to spend two nights .on the road between Damascus and
Baalbec; and the ﬁrst was to be at Ain Fijji,—-ﬁve hours and a half'
from Damascus.-—We followed the course of the Barrada; or rather,
we kept its course in view, which it was easy to do, from the belt of
verdure which fringed its channel. In contrast with the limestone hills
around, this vegetation looked black. In the hollows of the hill-range,
there were islands of verdure, with a minaret to each,a mill, and a few
habitations peeping out‘ above the wood; miniature likenesses of Da-
mascus, and only less beautiful than it. The prettiest of these settle-
ments was Bassena. While we looked down upon the Barrada,-—the
life of the region, without which it would be a desert,—the snowy peaks
which shut in the valley of the Jordan rose to the south-west, and the
mountains of the Antilibanus range, which we were now about to cross,
seemed to enlarge every moment. .

There was, of course, a greater abundance Of water as we approached
the mountains: and, of course, the tokens of popular industry increased
in proportion. There were ﬁg orchards, well cleared and fenced, on
the ridges of the nearer eminences; and plantations of mulberries and
vines below. Wherever we fell in with a watercourse, there were
spreading trees, good crops, bridges, mills and rows of dwellings.—It
was rather late in the afternoon when I, who was riding ﬁrst, turned
into a recess among the hills which I thought so far more beautiful than
any spot we had ever encamped in, that I turned back to intreat that
we might st0p here. My companions were of my mind; but the ser-
vants assured us that Ain Fijji, which was only half an hour off, was
better in every respect. We agreed to go and see: and we could re—
turn if we preferred this nook, of which I had scarcely a doubt when
we left it. From a promontory of the mountain, a grassy level spread
out,—little larger than would be required for our camp. The Barrada
bounded this bit of turf, rushing in a semicircle under a ﬁne pre-
cipice. Nothingcould'be more delicious than the gush of the clear
abundant waters under the rocks, which overhung the stream enough
to cast a shadow upon it.—The way out of this nook was by a path
so rugged and difﬁcult that I suspected we should not return, however
disappointed we might be in Ain Fijji. Nobody, however, was ever
disappointed in Ain Fijji, or, I should think, will be, while its waters
ﬂow.

As we passed by the village, the peOple appeared very civil: and a
man put himself at the head of our troop, to show us where to encamp.
He led us past a glorious old ruin, and by a descending road, where
we heard the gush of waters from below and behind the p0plars which
made a screen on our left hand. The guide presently pulled down
enough of an orchard wall on the right to allow the horses and laden
mules to enter, and told us we might encamp in the orchard—From
our platform we overlooked the junction of the Barrada and Fijji be-
low; and we dined under leafy waln‘ut and fig-trees, with blossoming

