BL-KARNAC. 193

This was, as I said, our last day on the western shore. Our guides
knew this; and I fancied that my Open-faced and obliging donkey-boy
felt sorry to part; as I truly did. There could be no exchange of senti-
ment, however; for the only language we had in common consisted of
two words, which we found enough to signify our pleasure by, and that
was all. “Bono” and “non bone” was our whole discourse. But
my guide’s face and close service on this last day seemed to say more.
He understood my wish to go once more to the Ramaséum,andlook about
me when there ;-—to go once more to the Colossi, and ride round them
once and again. He put my donkey to its best canter, that I might ac-
complish all this. I turned agrateful face upon him, and said “ Bono :”
and his answer was, with a wise nod, and holding out his hand, “ La,
la,—bono baksheesh ! ” He little knew how he had spoiled everything
by that one wor'd,—-whatI might have given him, in cash and character,
but for that act of begging at such a moment. '

We crossed to the El-Uksur side in the dusk of the evening, and
looked forward to spending the next two days in the most magniﬁcent
spot in Egypt—among the ruins of El-Karuac. -

The 25th was cloudy;-—our ﬁrst cloudy day in Africa. I was sur-
prised to see how the whole landscape, and especially the ruins, suffered
by the absence of light, shadow and vivid tint. It was very well to
become aware of this ; but one would rather it had happened elsewhere.
We had planned to ride over in the evening. to see El-Karnac by moon-
light; but in the evening, the whole sky was gray. We had not, all
this day, one single gleam from sun or moon. We had made such a
survey 0f the ruins, however, as prepared us for a thorough exploring
the next day.

On the 26th, the sky was still dull when I looked out; but as [was
taking my early walk on the shore, some lustrous gleams touched upon
the points of the western mountains, and at length illumined the whole
shore, and stole over the river towards us. Before breakfast, we visited
ﬁrst a stuffed crocodile which was offered for sale. _ It was a hideous
creature; but I was glad to have an opportunity for a safe study of it.
Then we went down to our old kandjia of the cataracts, which had just
arrived with a cargo of slaves for Ibraheem Pasha’s hareem. The girls
looked as earnest and content as they always do while makin cakes,
Nubian fashion: but the ofﬁcer who had charge of them and t e boys
carried a little whip.

After breakfast, we rode away to El-Karnac, the sun coming out, but
the wind rising so as to cover us with dust, and render the examination
of the external sculptures less easy than we could have wished. '

The road from El-Uksur to El-Karnac once lay, as everybody knows,
between sphinxes, standing six feet apart, for a mile and a half. Those
which remain, headless, encumbered, and extending only a quarter of
a mile, are still very imposing. Then come pylons, prOpyla, halls,
obelisks, temples, groves of columns, and masses of ruins, Oppressive to
see, and much more to remember. I think I must say nothing about
them. They must be sacred to the eyes that see them; I mean, incapa-
ble to be communicated to any others. Those that have not seen El-

13

