172 W‘ am.

proceeding: but we must remember that the Egyptian priesthood had
not this testimony of ages. We must remember how they stood, a
little band of observers, amung the wonders and mysteries of the uni-
verse; and that, as yet, they had to collect the facts of external nature
to a great extent before they could look,far into causes (so-called); and
that these facts were not regarded by them with the calm eye of know-
ledge, but the bashful glance of new and awe-struck perception. They
could hardly receive such knowledge as they had, otherwise than as a
special gift and revelation to themselves, as students of the universe.
It was not'known then, not dreamed of by any one, that knowledge is
the equal birthright of all, and that truth is of the last importance to
every human being. We are not, therefore, to reprobate in the Egyp-
tian priesthood what is worthy of reprobation now in any man or body
of men ;—a distrust of the general understanding, as compared with
our own; a keeping back of the knowledge which is the birthright of
all; an oﬂ'er, under veils and disguises, of that truth which every man
has“ an equal right to see in its native purity and nobleness. The
Egyptian priesthood tried the experiment of a civil government which
was probably the ﬁttest at the time for its purposes—those purposes
being, we may hope, centered in the good of the people :-—Pythagoras,
at least, thus understood the matter. The experiment, which lay
within the terms of natural laws, appears to have succeeded ; the
Egyptian mode of governing society by a council of the wisest and
best having lasted longer than perhaps any other government that na-
tions have experienced. The Egyptian priesthood tried another expe-
riment, which failed, because it violated the terms of natural laws.
They tried the experiment of making themselves gods to the peeple in
regard to the administration of knowledge and natural beneﬁts. They-
took upon themselves to measure and to manage the minds of men in
regard to matters which in fact they held only in common with all men.
They did this, I doubt not, in all sincerity, ﬁdelity, and benevolence;
but it was a mistake of ignorance; and it was followed by its natural
retribution. Ignorance, whether guilty or unavoidable, is always pre-
sumptuous. These priests were ignorant and presumptuous, while
most earnestly intent on doing good with such knowledge as they had.
They assumed the exclusive possession of that to which all had aright;
and they corrupted themselves and their charge together. The philo-
sophy they held languished and nearly died out. Their own order
deteriorated in power, knowledge, and character; andthe peeple be-
came idolaters, sinking into that weakness and under that doom which
superstition brings on as surely as the pollution of the atmosphere
causes lassitude and lingering death. The experiment of spiritual
government failed; but we are not to deal with the priests for it as if
they had had our thousands of years of added experience.

I never believed during my school days, and I am sure I never shall
now. that any order of men ever carried on a wilful and deliberate fraud,
from generation to generation, for any purpose whatever. I used to
suspect in my school days, as I believe now, that all the heathen priest-
hoods which were held up for my seem as bands of impostors, had

 

