406 surm- am.

should write one. He pressed for a recommendatory certiﬁcate from
me and others of our party. Irdid not know enough of him to grant
his request, and was advised against it by those who had reason to
know him. We were none of us, however, disposed to bear hard on
the rapacity of any poor fellow who, cast out from his old faith and
connections, was deprived of his means of bread.

The congregation in thelittle church used by the Mission till their
own is completed, was very small, even on Good Friday. Deducting
the Mission families and our own large company, there were few left
over. We went to church that day with feelings of no ordinary in-
terest. A Christian service at Jerusalem on Good Friday! It was an
occasion which might rouse the most indiﬂ'erent. So I should have
thought: but never was I present at a service so utterly dead. This
was not a matter of opinion: the deadness was a plain matter of fact.
I am aware that it must be so with MissiOns in foreign lands, underthe
discouragements of the position, and in the absence of the intellectual
stir and spiritual sympathy which naturally and continually occur at
home: but yet I did wonder whether the converts could ﬁnd in a ser5
vice like this as much spiritual interest and beneﬁt as their brethren
without experience every Sabbath in the time-hallowed services of the
synagogue. Of the qualiﬁcations of the Bishop in every way, and the
sincerity of his clergy, I never heard or conceived a doubt. The im-
pediments to adequate success are in the very nature of the enterprise,
and the position of the parties, and are, asI think-will be proved, in-
superable by them.

Our ﬁrst view over the whole city was from the top of the Mission
Church. The extent and handsome appearance of Jerusalem surprised
us. The population is said not to exceed ﬁfteen thousand: but the
city covers a great extent of ground, from the courts which are en-
closed by eastern houses, and the large unoccupied spaces which lie
within the walls. The massive stone walls and substantial character
of the buildings remove every appearance of sordidness, when the
place is seen from a height: and the clearness of the atmosphere, and
the hue of the building-material, give a clean and cheerful air to the
whole, which accords little with the traveler’s preconception of the
fallen state of Jerusalem. The environs look fertile and ﬂourishing,
except where the Moab mountains rise lofty and bare, but adorned
with the heavenly hues belonging to the glorious climate. The mina-
rets glittered against the clear sky; and the arches, marble platform,
and splendid variegated buildings of the Mosque of Omar, crowning
the heights of Moriah, were very beautiful. We were glad to hear
from the Consul’s lady that the climate is found very healthy, there
being always a fresh breeze, in the hottest summer weather.

On Good Friday, we took a very interesting walk. In the course
of it, we saw the interior of a Jewish house, where the gentlemen went
on business. The handsome lady of the house invited me to the raised
part of the apartment, while the gentlemen sat below, awaiting the
host, who was so picturesque a ﬁgure, with his two caps—one on the
top of the other—his marked Jewish features, and graceful attitudes,

 

 

 

