232 ‘ man Lin.

falls on the night of the 17th and 18th of June. As the Mohammedan
months vary, they use the Comic time for this calculation. On that
night, about every second house in Cairo had, in Niebuhr’s time, a
piece of paste laid out upon the roof; and if it was found heavier in the
morning than at night, it was: a settledmatter that the Drop had fallen
in Abyssinia, and that there would be a good Nile. We should sup-
pose this to be owing to a heavy dew: but the people would have it
that it was of no consequence whether the paste was laid out within
the house or on the roof. Another method was to expose equal wei hts
of dry Nile soil and water; if, in the morning, the earth had suc ed
up all the water, it would be a sterile year; if any remained, there
would be a good ﬂood. Niebuhr tried this experiment repeatedly;
and there was always water remaining: whence he drew the conclu-
sion that the soil of the valle‘y will notabsorb its own weight of water.
Another opular method of ivination was to set out on the house-tops
at night, ittle paper-boxes containin a small portion of wheat. Each
box was inscribed with the name of a Coptic month; and all were of
equal weight. The box which was heaviest in the morning showed
in what month the inundation would reach its height. As was natural,
the people tried to learn a little more while they were about it; and
some fortune-telling was joined with the other experiments. The best
informed people lau bed at the whole matter as an amusement of the
women : but nevert eless, about every other house in Cairo had some—
thing laid out upon its roof on the night of the 17th of June. The
Christians were in no way behind the Mohammedans in their experi-
ments. They had their paste and their Nile soil, and their calculations
of uncertain times, connectin their Observances, however, with their
saints’ days. They professed a caution greater than their neighbors
thought of; declaring that unless three of their experiments yielded the
same result, none were to be relied on.

The people dreaded falling stars at this time of year. Learned men
said that if they all tended to the same point of the heavens, this indi-
cated only what winds would prevail: and the winds are largely con-
cerned in the inundation. Learned and ignorant seem to have agreed
that if these meteors abounded in the whole sky, it was a forewarning
of a low Nile; and also of political troubles. In a. n. 902, ﬁery mete-
ors ﬁlled the air: and lo! the Nile rose only to thirteen cubits, and the
dynasty of the Tooloonides was overthrown; the last of them reigning
only ten days. Again, in a. D. 912, the same signs occurred, and were
followed by scarcity and civil war. Abdallatif observes, after quoting
the chronicler who tells these things, “ These are certainly very strong
indications; but they are common to all countries, and not peculiar to
Egypt. But we observed the same things in this year (a. n. 1199).
At the beginning of the year (Mohammedan) stars darted across the
sky; and at the end, the waters were very low : and in this same veer,
the Sovereign'who ruled in Egypt was dethroned by his uncle Melic-
aladel, after they had been at war.” He tells us elsewhere, however,
that an ambassador from Abyssinia brought to Cairo, in Au net of that
year, a letter from his sovereign, (about appointing a new atriarch in

