ram 'ro rmsrms. 369

with admirable eﬂ'ect. She revived surprisingly, had a quiet night, and
was in the morning able to go on. ‘

During the 26th, we traversed the skirts of the mountains of Seir,
crossing ridges of truncated sand hills, and dropping into basins or
wadees, tufted with shrubs. We encamped, in a high wind, at the
foot of the pass of Sufa, which we were to cross very early to-morrow.

Mrs. Y. and I were off on foot before six. This pass is su posed
to be the one by which the Hebrews attempted to enter Palestine the
ﬁrst time, from Kadesh, when they were driven back to their lon
wandering. Before us was a limestone rock, believed to be a thousan
feet high. It was split by a ravine, the right side of which we pursued,
while the camels. and most of the walkers. took the left; and very pic-
turesque they looked, winding up the heights. At the top, where the
ravine closed, and was surmounted by a fort, there was scarcely a
footing for the camels, the steep slope being bare, shelvy limestone,
with occasional notches or steps, and traces of an old path, but with
scanty available footing now. It was by this road that the Egyptian
army entered Syria; and the masonry which I saw at- the closure of
two ravines, and the fort at the summit of the pass, are probably the
work of Ibraheem Pasha. Some, however, believed the fort to be
ancient. ' It was here that we bade farewell to Wadee Arabs; and
wild beyond description was the scene.

After walking for three hours among the passes,‘I found the com-
pany seated under a tree, compelled to wait for the baggage-camels.
After resting a considerable time, and then rising, we were stopped by
the Sheikh, and detained another half hour. 80 we ordered luncheon,
to save time. It was only half-past ten: but we had set out very
early.—-Then we went on again, the Sheikh having borrowed a horse.
and set Lady on his, paying her every attention, by way of
propitiating the company. I think it was within an hour when 'I,
being in advance of the other camel riders, came in view of a shrubby
wadee, where Lady was sitting in the shade, and the Sheikh
standing beside his spear, which was stuck in the ground, while his
men were making ﬁres. Here he meant to encamp: but I knew the
gentlemen behind would not consent to stop so soon,—so necessary as
it now was to push on to some place where food could be had for men
and camels. Lady told me the old man was quite deter-
mined to stop: and he made signs to me to dismount, which I refused.
He came to me, and made the camel lie down,—the animal unfor-
tunately understanding Arabic better than English. I made it get up
again, and rode back to tell the gentlemen what they would ﬁnd. Mr.
E. and others declared at once that we should on no account stop till
four o’clock; and it was now only one. I asked to be ordered to
move on; and on we went,—Mr. E. and I and a youth of the party.
The Sheikh came in front of us; but we passed him with a civil greet-
ing. He ordered the drivers to make our camels lie down: we made
them get up again. The worst of it was that the animals were ready
to take the least hint about stopping. My camel lay down against my
will thirteen times this day.—The Sheikh himself next caught hold of

24 '

 

 

 

 

 

 

