am. 481

has built her power, and on the plea of which she maintains and will
long maintain it. In that church the discrowned deities, dismissed
from their shrines here and elsewhere, have found a long refuge. If
Pan is dead, they are not: for all the idolatries most congenial to un-
disciplined humau nature are concentrated there, and brought into
strange association with the faith and name of him at whose birth they
came down from their thrones. And their power is great enough still,
outside the pale of that church, as well as within it, to desecrate and
corrupt the faith which has succeeded to their own. They have but
too much part still, every one of them, from Osiris to the latest of his
Syrian and Greek progeny, in the faith which goes by the name of
Christ, to the dishonor of that holy name.

To this spot he came,—probably to see the ﬂowing forth of Jordan
from the rock. In gazing at that, he must have seen these niches, and
the inscriptions which show in whose honor they were made. What
a singular and most interesting union of ideas this is! It rouses our
minds to read of Paul at Athens,—-—and our classical and religious asso-
ciations are curiously blended when we read his address uttered before
the altar,—-that most venerable altar,-—of the Unknown God. But what
is that to this ! Here came Jesus, to the shrines of Pan and the
Nymphs, and had their statues probably, and certainly their sculptured
shells and glorifying inscriptions, before his eyes. No place could be
a ﬁtter one in which to speak privately to his followers of his Messiah-
ship and his approaching kingdom, and in which to distinguish by ex-
traordinary promises the follower who, being the ﬁrst to acknowledge
his Messiahship, was selected by him to be the main support of his
anticipated empire.

The springs over which Pan and the nymphs held special watch
were usually beautiful, in themselves or in their environs. And if the
waters here did ever really ﬂow out of the cave itself, nothing could
well be more striking. They are generally represented as gushing from
the cave; and even Burckhardt, the most reliable of reporters, says,
“the largest niche is above a spacious cavern, under which the river
rises.” As it certainly rose at the foot of the rock, and was ﬁrst seen
issuing from the stones, and not from the cavern at all, when we were
there, it is satisfactory to ﬁnd that Seetzen says, “the copious source
of the river of Panias rises near a remarkable grotto in the rock,” dsc.
dtc. I cannot understand how so many authorities can assign the more
picturesque origin to this spring. when the cave was certainly perfectly
dry when we visited it, and the stream ﬂowed forth in a different direc-
tion, and at a distance of several yards. This cannot, I imagine, bela
variable circumstance, on which travelers might differ without being
wrong, as in the case of the qualities of the water of the Dead Sea,
and other instances.

The later faith which has transcended all preceding religions in its
power over the human race,—the Mohammedan, which has won its tens
of thousands to the thousands of any other faith well known to us,—
is not without its representative here. Toweri above the shrines of
the Greek deities, and the source of the sacred ebrew river, and the

