so manna am.

two of the Theban kings, soon after the expulsion of the Shepherd
race. The dates exist in the hieroglyphic inscriptions of the pillars.
This temple was built when the great ediﬁces of Thebes were, for the
most part, unthought of. El-Karnac was begun—its more humble halls:
and El-Uksur might be. surveyed, by that time, as a ﬁtting site for a
temple to answer to El-Karnac, but the El-Kurneh temple and the
Ramaséum were not conceived of : for the sovereigns who built them
were not born. The Memnon statues were yet in the quarry. The
Pyramids were, it is now thought, about two thousand years old: and
about this time Moses was watching the erection of the great obelisk
(which we call Cleopatra’s Needle) at Heliopolis, where he studied.
If learned men are right in saying that the Philistines‘ were of the
race expelled from Thebes, they had, by the time this temple was
built, settled themselves under the Lebanon and along the southern
Syrian coasts, whence they were to be driven out when Moses should
be in his grave. If, as some poets tell, Egyptus and Cadmus were
among the Shepherd intruders driven out from the Thebaid, the ﬁfty
nieces of the one had by this time murdered his sons, their husbands,
and the dragon’s teeth of the other had sprung up into armed men.
It is worth while to mention such tables as these last under their as-
signed dates; because we learn thereby to value as we ought the tan-
gible and reliable records we meet in the Egyptian monuments, in
contrast with the dim traditions of later born nations. We may also
gather useful hints on the history and philosophyot' art and science,
from the mythi and the monuments together. There is writing on this
temple: there is writing on the much-older Pyramids: and it was only
at the time of the erection of this temple that letters were carried into
Greece. Here is a pillar which is believed to have suggested, in a
subsequent age, the Doric column; the oldest of Greek pillars. Here it
stands, remarkable for its many-sided form. It was to us now the
dldest we had ever seen: but we afterwards saw some, more pre-
cisely what is called Doric, in the tombs of Benee Hasan. The columns
of this temple are little more than bases. They are nearly all of the
same height: some like mere heaps of stone; others bearing unin-
jured inscriptions. They are small remains: but long may they last!
They are the ultimate record of their kind on the ordinary route of
Nile travelers, and usually the ﬁrst subject to their examination.

Our ride to the rock of Abooseer occupied an hour and a half.
Thanks to the cool north wind, we highly enjoyed it. Our way lay
through a complete desert, over sand hills, and among stony tracts,
where scarcely a trace of vegetation is to be seen. In such places
the coloquintus is a welcome object, with its thick, milky leaves and
stalks, and its velvet blossom. The creeping, thorny coloquintida, too,
with its bitter apples, is a handsome plant: or it looked so to us, in

’ Herodotus tells us (II. 128) that the Egyptians so hated the Pharaohs who
built the two largest pyramids, that they would not pronounce their names; but
called those ediﬁces “ by the name of the shepherd Philitis, who in those times led
his ﬂocks topasture in their neighborhood.” Is the slyuess of this notice attributable
to the priests or the prudential historian ‘!

