104 ensues use.

when one foreign power after another took possession of her valley,
and rendered the language of her people compound and corrupt.
Without repeating here the long and well-known story of the progress
of discovery of the ancient language, it is enough to give the results
thus far attained.

The key not only to the cipher but to the language, was afforded by
the discovery of the same inscription written, as the inscription itself
declared, in three languages,—the Creek, the Enchorial or ordinary
Egyptian writing, and the old ,sacred character. The most ancient
was found to bearga close relation to the Captic, as then known: a
relation probably. as has been observed by a recent writer!“ “ similar
to that which the 'Latin does to the Italian, the Zend to the modern
Persian, or the Sanscrit to many of the vernacular dialects now‘spoken
in India.” This key was applied with wonderful sagacity and inge-
nuity by Champollion the ydunger, who proceeded a good deal further
than reading. the names and titles of theikings and their ofﬁcers. He
ventured upon introducing or deciphering (whichever it may be called)
many words not to be found in the» later Coptic, except in their sup-
posed roots, nor, of course, anywhere else. The great difﬁculty is
that, the language having, by lapse of ages, lost its original power of
grammatical inﬂexion, a quality‘which it seems scarcely possible to
restore, the relations of ideas in a, sentence, which in the more modern
Coptic are expressed by auxiliary terms, must be disposed by conjec-
ture, or by doubtful internal comparison and analogy. It is easy to
see how thus, while names and titles, and all declaratory terms may
be read, when once the alphabet is secured, all beyond must be in a
high degree conjectural, at least till the stock of terms is largely in-
creased. The stock is on the increase, however. Champollion made
a noble beginning: Dr. Lepsius has corrected him in some important
instances; and theChevalier Bunsen has offered a Lexicon of the old
Egyptian language. placing above four hundred words in comparison
with the known Coptic. This is a supply which will go a good way
in reading the legends on the monuments; by which process, again.
we may be helped to more. The very singular nature of the alphabet
being once understood, and the beginning of a Lexicon 'being supplied.
there seems reason to hope that the process of discovery may be car-
ried on by the application of one fresh mind after another to the task
which all must see to be as important as any which can occupy the
human faculties. Or, if all do not see this, it must be from insufﬁcient
knowledge of the facts :—insuﬂicient knowledge of the amount of the
records, of their antiquity, and of their general nature. When the
traveler gazes at vast buildings covered over in every part with writing;
every architrave, every abacus, every recess and every projection, a“
the lines of the cornice, and all the intervals of the sculptures. he is
overwhelmed with the sense of the immensity of knowledge locked up
from him before his eyes. Let those at home imagine the ecclesiasti-
cal history of Christendom written up thus on every inch of the sur-

' Penny Cyclopzedia; Article, COP‘I‘IC Laxonmn.

 

 

