rasramnons ron NUBIA. 73.

her baggage. If she can also starch, it will add much to her comfort
and that of her party, at a little cost of time and trouble.

We went On board our kandjia to dinner, at two o’clock, and were
oﬁ‘ for the entrance of the Cataract. The smallness of our boat, after
our grand dahabieh, was the cause of much amusement, both to-day
and during the fortnight of our Nubian expedition., In the inner cabin
there was only just robm for Mrs. Y. and me by laying our beds close
together; and our dressing-room was exactly a yard square. The
gentlemen’s cabin was somewhat larger; but not roomy enough to ad-
mit of our having our meals there,—unless a strong cold wind drove
us in to tea ;-—which, I. think, happened twice. Our sitting room was
a pretty little vestibule, between the cabins and the deck. This ex-
actly held our table and two chairs; the other seats being two lockers,
on which were spread gay carpets. When we sat down to our morn-
ing employments, we were careful to bring at once all the books, &c.,
that we were likely to want, as we could not pass in and out without
' compelling our neighbors to rise to make way. *For all this, and
though we felt, on our return to our dahabieh, as if we had got from
a coaster into a man-of-war, we were never happier than in our little
kandjia. There was some amusement in roughing it for a fortnight;
and the Nubian part of our voyage was full as “interesting as any other.

The Rais of the Cataract was to meet us, the next morning, with
his posse, at a point ﬁxed on, above the ﬁrst rapid, which we were to
surmount ourselves. We appeared to be surmounting it, just at dusk.
Half our crew were hauling at our best rope on the rocks, and the
other half poling on board; and we were slow]y,—-—almost impercepti-
bly—making way against the rushing current, and had otIr bows fairly
through the last mass of foam, when the rope snapped. We swirled
down and away,—none of us knew whither, unless it were to the bot-
tom of the river. This was almost the most anxious moment of our
whole journey; but it was little more than a moment. The boat, in
swinging round at the bottom of the rapid, caught by her stern on a.
sand bank: and our new Rais quickly brought her round, and moored
her, in still water, to the bank. * ~

Here we were for the night: and we thought it a pity not to take
advantage of the leisure and the moonlight to visit PhlltB. So the gen-
tlemen and I crossed the rapids to the main in a punt, mounted capital
asses, and struck across the desert for Mahatta, where we could get a
boat for Philoe. ‘ - -

The sun had just set when we left the kandjia; and the Desert looked
superb in the after glow. It had the last depth of coloring l have ever
seen in pictures, or heard described. The clear forms and ravishing
hues make one feel as if gifted with new eyes.

The boat which took us from Mahatta to Philos was too heavy for
her hands, and could hardly stem some of the currents: but at last,
about seven o’clock, we set our feet on the Holy Island, and felt one
great object of our journey accomplished. What a moment it was,
just before, when we ﬁrst saw Philce, as we came round the point,—
saw the crowd of temples looming in the mellow twilight. And what

I»

