262 names LIFE.

drunkenness is moderated, and there is no self-denial which the poor
creatures will not undergo during this gratiﬁcation of their feminine
instincts. They will nurse the child all night in illness, and pamper
it all day with sweetmeats and toys; they will ﬁght for the possession
of it, and be almost heart-broken at its loss: and lose it they must; for
the child always dies,-—killed with kindness, even if born healthy.
This natural outbreak of feminine instinct takes place in the too popu-
lous hareem, when a child is given to any one of the many who are
longing for the gift: and if it dies naturally, it is mourned as we saw,
through a wonderful. conquest of personal jealousy by this general
instinct. But when the jealousy is uppermost,—what happens then?
—why, the strangling the innocent in its sleep,—or the letting it slip
from the window into the river below,—or the mixing poison with its
food ;—-the‘ mother and the murderess, always rivals and now ﬁends,
being shut up together for life. If the child lives, what then? If a
girl, she sees before her from the beginning the nothingness of external
life, and the chaos of interior existence, in which she is to dwell for
life. If a boy, he remains among the women till ten years 'old, seeing
things when the eunuchs come in to romp, and hearing things among
the chatter of the ignorant women which brutalize him for life before
the age of rationality comes. But I will not dwell on these hapeless
miseries.

A sensible looking old lady, who had lost an eye, sat at the head of
the invalid: and a nun-like elderly woman, whose head and throat
were wrapped in Aunstarched muslin, sat behind for a time, and then
went away, after an affectionate salutation to the invalid.—Towards
the end of the visit, the husband’s mother came in,—looking like a
little old man in her coat trimmed with fur. Her countenance was
cheerful and pleasant. We saw, I think, about twenty more women,
—some slaves,—most or all young—some good-looking, but none
handsome. Some few were black; and the rest very lightz—Nubians
or Abyssinians and Circassians, no doubt. One of the best ﬁgures, as
a picture, in the hareem, was a Nubian girl, in an amber-colored
watered silk, embroidered with black, looped up in festoons, and
ﬁnished with a black boddice. The richness of the gay printed cotton
skirts and sleeves surprised us: the ﬁnest shawls could hardly have
looked better. One graceful girl had her pretty ﬁgure well shown by
a tight-ﬁtting black dress. Their heads were dressed much like the
'chief lady’s. Two, who must have been sisters, if not twins. had
patches between the eyes. One handmaid was barefoot,.and several
were without shoes. Though there were none of the whole large
number who could be called particularly pretty individually, the scene
was, on the whole, exceedingly striking. as the realization of what one
knew before, but as in a dream. The girls went out and came in, but,
for the most part, stood in .a half circle. Two sat on their heels for a
time: and some went to play in the neighboring apartments.

Coffee was handed to us twice, with all the well-known apparatus
of jeweled cups, embroidered tray cover, and gold-ﬂowered napkins.
There were chibouques, of course: and sherbets in cut glass cups.

