THE caramc'r. 77

Though this passage appeared to us the most dangerous, it was at
the last that the Rais of the Cataract interfered to request us to step
ashore. We were very unwilling; but we could not undertake the
responsibility of opposing the local pilot. He said it was more force
that was wanted here, the difﬁculty being only from the rush of the
waters, and not from any complication of currents. But no man
would undertake to say 'that the rope would hold; and if it did not,
destruction was inevitable. The rope held; we saw the boat drawn
up steadily and beautifully; and the work was done. Mr. E., who
has great experience in nautical affairs, said that nothing could be
cleverer than the management of the whole business. He believed
that the feat could be achieved nowhere else, as there are no such
swimmers elsewhere.

. The mob who took charge of us on the rocks were horribly noisy;
the granite we trod on was burning hot, shining and slippery: the
light, at an hour‘ after noon, was oppressive: and the wildness of the
scenery and of the thronging people was bewildering. The clamor
was the worst; and for four hours there was no pause. This is,I
think, the only thing in the whole affair really trying to a person of
good nerves. The cries are‘like those of rage and fear; and one has
to remind one’s self incessantly that this is only the people’s way:
and then the clamor goes for nothing. When they do speak gently, as -
to u's on matters of business, their voices are agreeable enough, and
some very sweet.—Most of the throng to-day were quite black: some
tawny. One man looked very odd. His complexion was chocolate
color, and his breast and top-knot re‘d.‘ ‘

We returned to the boat heated and thirsty, and quite disposed fOr
wine and water. The critical passage of four hours was over; but the
Rais of the Cataract did not leave us till we were off Mahatta, there
being still much skill and labor required to pass us through the yet
troubled waters. Our boat rolled a good deal, having but little ballast
as yet: and when we were about to go to dinner, a lurch caused the
breakage of some soup plates and other ware: so we put of dinner till
we should be at Philce, where we were to complete our ballast.—
Meantime, we had the poor amusement of seeing a ﬁght on shore,—
the Rais and his men q‘uarreling abOu‘t the backsheesh. The pay of
the Rais and his men was included in the contract for the kandjia: but
of course the Rais asked for backsheesh. He was offered ten piastres,
and refused them; then a bottle of wine, which he put under his arm,
demanding the ten piastres too. Then he refused both, and went off ;
but returned for the money ; and ended by ﬁghting about the divisibn
of it. The amount is small to contend about; but travelers should
remember those who come after tlfem, and the real good of the natives ;
and not give way to encroachment, to save a little trouble.

It was four o’clock when we moored at Philce under what once was
‘the great landing place of the island, on the east side. The hypmthral
‘temple, vulgarly called Pharaoh’s Bed, stood conspicuous on the height
above us: and we ran up to it after sunset, while the last of our ballast
was stowing,—glad of every opportunity of familiarizing our minds

f

 

