404 mm.

was the Via Dolorosa. Beyond the city, and directly Opposite, rose
the long slape of Olivet. It was now the timeof full moon ; and even-
ing after evening, I leaned on that parapet, watching for the coming
up of the large yellow moon behind the ridge of the Mount of Olives.
By day the slopes of the Mount were green with the springing wheat,
and dappled with the shade of the Olive clumps. By night, those
clumps and lines of trees were dark amidst the lights and shadows
cast by the moon; and they guided the eye, in the absence of daylight,
to the most interesting points, the descent to the brook Kedron, the
road to Bethany, and the place whence Jesus is said to have looked
over upon the noble city when be pronounced its doom.

It is still a noble city. The Jebusites certainly chose for their fort
one of the ﬁnest sites in the world; and when David took it from them,
he might well glory in his beautiful Zion. From this day forward
how dead seemed to me all my former impressions of Jerusalem l—not
of its sacredness, but of its beauty and nobleness. I can scarcely re-
member the time when I did not know familiarly all its hills, and its
gates, and its temple courts, so as to read the New Testament as with
a plan in my head. But I never had the slightest conception of that
beauty which now at once enabled me to enter into the exultation of
David, and the mourning of Nehemiah. and the generous concern of
Titus, and the pride of the Saracen, and the enthusiasm of the Cut-
sader. The mournful love of the Holy City grew from day to day, as
I became familiar with its precincts; but no single view so took me by
surprise as that which we obtained in the course of our walk this ﬁrst day.

There is a strange charm in the mere streets, from the picturesque
character of the walls and archways. The old walls of yellow stone
are so beautifully tufted with weeds, that one longs to paint every angle
and projection, with its mellow coloring, and dangling and trailing gar-
lands. And the shadowy archways, where the vaulted roofs intersect
each other, till they are lost in the dazzle of the sunshine beyond, are
like a noble dream. The pavement is the worst I ever walked on :—
worse than Cologne; worse than my native, city of Norwich: but being
a native of Norwich, and having been familiar with its pavement for
thirty years, I was not so distressed as my companions, who could
hardly make their way in Jerusalem over the large, slippery stones,
slanting all manner of ways.

We found the bazaars much crowded, this ﬁrst day, and abounding
in fruits and vegetables. It was Holy Week, which accounted for the
throng, and for the display of oranges, lemons, ﬁgs, nuts and almonds,
pumpkins and cucumbers. The lightness of the complexions, and the
mild beauty of the faces were very striking, after so many weeks
among the Arabs in the Desert.

We were now on our way to the English church, from which we
obtained the ﬁne view I have alluded to. The walls of this new church
were up, and the pillars rising; and a spiral staircase at one corner was
so ﬁnished as that we could mount. Some of our party exclaimed at
the smallness of this pretty new church; but I much doubt whether there
will ever be Jewish converts enough to ﬁll it. I should have supposed
that any consideration at home of the genius of the Jewish religion, and

