38 Imam urn.

her golden track on the dimpled waters were the shadows of palms,
single and in clusters, passing over swiftly,—“ authentic tidings of in-
visible things.” And then, there was the rising of Orion. I have said
that the constellations were less conspicuous than at home, from the
universal brilliancy of the sky: but Orion shone forth, night by night,
till the punctual and radiant apparition became almost oppressive to
the watching sense. [came at last to know his ﬁrst star as it rose
clear out of the bank. He never issued whole from a haze on the
horizon, as at home. As each star rose, it dropped a duplicate upon
the surface of the still waters: and on a calm night, it was hard to say
which Orion was the brightest.—And how different was the wind from
our cloud-laden winds in England! Except that it carried us on, I did
not like wind in Egypt. The palms, bowed from their graceful height,
and bent all one way, are as ugly as trees can be: and the dust ﬂies in
clouds, looking like smoke or haze on land, and settling on our faces,
even in the middle of the stream. Though called sand, it is, for the
most part, mere dust from the limestone ranges, forming mud when
moistened. The wind served, however, to show us a sand-pillar now
and then, like a column of smoke moving slowly along the ground.
On this second day of our voyage, when we were approaching Beni-
sooeef, the wind made ugly what on a calm evening would have been
lovely. A solitary house, in the midst of a slip of alluvial land, all
blown upon with dust, looked to us the most dreary of dwellings.
But the latteen sails on the river were a pretty feature,—one or two at
a time, winding in and out, with the bends of the stream... We saw
one before us near Benisooeef, this day. It proved to be our Scotch
friends. Our boat beat his in a strong wind; and we swept past in
good style,—the gentlemen uncapping and bowing; the ladies waving
their handkerchiefs. I had no idea that the racing spirit had entered
into them, till one of the ladies told me, the next time we met, “ We
were so mortiﬁed when you passed us !"

Benisooeef is about eighty miles from Cairo: a good progress for
twenty-three hours !—It is the largest town in Upper Egypt: but it
does not look very imposing from the river. Two or three minarets
rise from it; and there is one rather good-looking house, which the
Pasha inhabits when he comes. Its aspect was pretty as we looked
back to it from the south.

The wind carried us on towards the rocky region where our careful
Rais would retard our progress by night, though we had a glorious
lamp in the moon, the whole night through. We had a rocky shore
to the east this afternoon,—the Arabian mountains approaching the
river: and in the early morning, we passed the precipitous cliffs, on
whose ﬂat summit stands the C0ptic convent of “Our Lady Mary the
Virgin.” The forms of these limestone cliﬂ's are most fantastic; and
fantastic was the whole scene ;-—the long rows of cormorants in front
of their holes,—a sort of burlesque upon the monks in their cells
above; the unconnected ﬂights of steps here and there on the rocks;
the women and naked children on the ridge, giving notice to the beg-
ging monks of our approach! and the monks themselves, leaping and

