Humorous. , 277

thus the drought will be kept oﬂ‘.—I believe it is the fashion to admire
this garden, and to imagine it peopled by the Houris of Ibraheem
Pasha’s hareem. We were told by the gardener that the ladies had
been twice; but that their going was an exceptional event. This gen-
tleman can hardly wish it otherwise if, as I believe is true, these wives
of a grey-bearded man behave like disorderly children, doing mischief
to the ﬂower-beds in their senseless play.—The only thing that, struck
me as at all beautiful in any part of the garden was an elegant bamboo,
which was a treat to the eye. Everywhere else it was painful to see
the attempt at making an English garden of an arid plot, where it
seemed as if all the plants had quarreled, and were trying how far
apart they could keep. ’ ‘ _

We were delighted, after this, with the Pasha’s garden at Shoobra.
It has a character appropriate to the country. It is formal, but exceed-
ingly pretty; studded thick with parterres of roses, geraniums and
stocks; and thick set as possible with orange and lemon trees. The
Djebel is charming ;—the hill ascended by a succession of terraces
connected by a trellised ascent, which conducts to a ﬁne point of view.
Such a formal and blossomy garden is in strong contrast with scenery
round; and the ”true charm of a garden is there accordingly. We
thought it the only place worthy of the name that we ha seen in
Egypt.-—The kiosks round the central fountain are beautiful; and one
of them is a truly splendid apartment. If the ordinary gas-lamps were
absent, and better glass present ‘in the windows, and more ﬂowers
about the fountain, this spot would nearly fulﬁl our ideas of garden
luxury in the East—I cannot imagine why the Pasha’s windows are
so badly ‘glazed. In these daysof universal plate glass, it is strange
to look round the apartments of his palaces, and see'his brilliant furni-
ture, and gorgeous bijoux from Paris contrasting with the coarse,
greenish, seamed window panes. [would advise the European power
which is most anxious to propitiate Mohammed Ales to send him out
a freight of plate glass windows. I can assure such European power
that a vast commotion of envy and jealousy will be excited in those
circles where every present made to the Pasha is regarded as an event
in the politics of the world. Come, now! which of the politicians of
the world will be quickest to glaze the Pasha’s windows?

The ride from Cairo to Shoobra is the pleasantest we found in the
neighborhood; I might almost call it the only one. It is under an
avenue of picturesque spreading trees, chieﬂy acacias, through which
the tilled lands on either hand show themselves, refreshing the eyes.
The Nile, spreading abroad in reaches, or ﬂowing between shoals, is
visible also; to-day in a state of singular commotion, from the strength
of the wind. The dust ﬂew in clouds, and the river broke in waves
over the shoals.

It was just such weather the day (February 19th) we went to that
mournful place,—old Heliopolis. We were to have made our ﬁrst
trial of camel-riding that day; but the wind was too high, though it
might permit us to ride lowlily, on our asses, through the fenced and
cultivated country, which lies between Cairo and the solitary obelisk.

I

