quaannsme—anamm'rm. 69,

should have immediately supposed them intended to hold the chains
or rapes by which the mass was to be raised: and it is still possible
that they were so. But we do not know what to make of the groove
which is commonly called the ﬁssure. It is deep; it is longitudinal;
and it is devious; not intended, evidently, to bear any relation to the
centre of the face, nor to be parallel with either side, nor to be straight
in its direction. The only conjecture we could form was that it was
in preparation for the dressing of the stone, after the erection of the
obelisk: but then its depth appears too great for such a purpose. We
observed a considerable bulge on the upper face of this obelisk. We
all know that this is necessary, to obviate that optical deception which
gives an appearance of concavity to a perfectly correct pyramidal line;
and we all know that the old Egyptians so well understood this archi-
tectural secret that they might be the teachers of -it to all the world.
But the knowledge of this does not lessen the surprise, when the proof
of it, in so gigantic a form, is under one’s hand.—-:The block was
ninety feet long above the sand, when we were there; and the guide
said that the sand covered thirty more. Judging of the pr0portions of
the apex from what we saw, it must either require much cutting away
in the dressing, or be a little spire. It would doubtless be much re-
duced by cutting—We left the quarries, full of speculation about what
manner of men they were who cut and carved their granite mountains
in this noble style, and by what inconceivable means they carried away
their spoils. It would hardly surprise me more to see a company of
ants carrying a life-size statue, than it did to measure the building stones
and colossi of the East.

In our walk this evening we saw a pretty encampment of Albanian
soldiers among the palms. One had to rub one’s eyes to be sure that
one was not in a theatre. The open tent, with the blue smoke rising,
the group of soldiers, in their Greek dress, on the ground, and seen
between the palm stems; the arms piled against a tree, and glittering
in the last rays of the sun ;—all this was like a snblimated opera scene.
And there was another, the next morning, when they took their de-
parture southwards, their ﬁle of loaded camels winding away from
under the shade into the hot light.

We went earlyuto Elephantine, this morning (the 27th); after seeing
the Scotch boat arrive. The remains on Elephantine are not now very
interesting ;—at least, we did not ﬁnd them so: and we do not enter
into the ordinary romance about this “Island of Flowers.” Not only
we saw no ﬂowers; but we could perceive no traces of any; and our
guide could not be made to understand what ﬂowers were. Conversa-
tion was carried on in Italian, of which the man appeared to have no
lack. First he said there were many ﬂowers there: then that there
were none: and he ended by asking what “ﬁori” were. He shook
his head in despair when we showed him. The northern end of the
island is green and fertile: but the southern end is one dreary heap of
old stones and broken pottery. The quantity of broken pottery in
these places is unaccountable,—incretlible.

The quays are gone, and the great ﬂight of steps to the river. The

