350 names: mu.

can ever have contained. To these considerations we may add that it
is the common practice of the Arab tribes of the desert to live in caves;
and all their modes of living appear to be aboriginal: and that the scrip-
tural expressions relating to such districts as this speak of habitations as
well as sepulchres. Isaiah speaks of one “ that graveth an habitation
for himself in arock : ”"’ and Jeremiah exclaims “Thy terribleness hath
deceived thee, and the pride of thine heart, 0 thou that dwellest in the
clefts of the rock, that holdest the height of the hill: though thou
shouldest make thy nest as high as the eagle, I will bring thee down
from thence, saith the Lord”? Obadiah, again, declares his message
to be “concerning Edom,” when he says, “The pride of thine heart
hath deceived thee, thou that dwellest in the cleft of the rock, whose
habitation is high: that saith in his heart, ‘ Who shall bring me down
to the ground? Though thou exalt thyself as the eagle, and though
thou set thy nest among the stars, thence will I bring thee down, saith
the Lord.”:|: “There shall not be any remaining of the house of
Esau,” the prophet goes on to say: and moumful indeed is the vacuity
now. Every deserted place is mournful enough ;—a grass-grown farm
house in Ireland; a city buried under mounds in Egypt: but nowhere
else is there desolation like that of Petra, where these rock door-ways
stand wide—still ﬁt for the habitation of a multitude, but all empty, and
silent, except for the multiplied echo of the cry of the eagle, or the bleat
of the kid. No—these excavations never were all tombs. In the
morning the sons of Esau came out in the ﬁrst sunshine to worship at
their doors, before going forth, proud as their neighbor eagle‘s, to the
chase: and at night, the yellow ﬁres lighted up from within, tier above
tier, the face of the precipice.

One other feature which immediately struck us, as it must every ob-
server, was the bad style of art wherever any'facades remain. The
grandeur of the place is not, to my eyes, at all from the ornament
wrought in the rock, or stuck upon it, but altogether from its adoption
as an abode by the ancient tribes of the Desert, and their adaptation of
such a fastness to their purposes. There is a strong taint of colonial
vulgarity in all the Roman work; and in looking at it, our wonder was
something very different from admiration.

Such were the cursory observations we could make from our plat-
form. But we soon went further. As soon as we had lunched, and
collected a few of our armed Arabs as a guard, we set out in a bod-y to
make a general survey, in preparation for further research to-morrow.
We turned 06' our platform at the right-hand (north-eastern) corner
above the stream, and descended into the valley which is overhung by the
Corinthian Tomb, as it is called, and other conspicuous exeavations. The
water-course and lower grounds in this valley were thickly grown with
oleanders, all the way.—We passed the Theatre, the so-called Egyp-
tian tombs, and a large number of unmarked excavations, pausing no-
where till we came to the Khasne.

Burckhardt calls this temple§ “one of the most elegant remAins of

' Isaiah XXII. 16. 1’ Jeremiah XLIX. 16. I Obadiah 4.
S Travels in Syria and the Holy Land, p. 424.

