roomy 'ro nan-noun. 615

upright trees. It made me so iddy that I could not look up at this
confusion of lines while riding agave a precipice.

On emerging from the gorge, we saw Tripoli, on the shore to the
north, and commanded a noble stretch of coast: but when we sat down
for luncheon, the sea looked so far off that I did not believe we could
reach it before evening: and indeed the enterprise was rash. On we
went, over hills and round them, and dipping into valleys where we
had no business, and from which our puzzled guide had some difﬁculty
in extricating us. In clambering out of one of these, a young man of
the company received a dreadful kick on the knee from one of the
horses. He was faint with the pain: and we feared it was something
worse than a bruise: but next day he was limping on again, so as to
show that no bones were broken or displaced. Late in the afternoon,
we saw so many villages, ruins, and convents placed on the crests of
the hills, as to show that we were approaching the more peopled neigh-
horhood of the coast. And when we inquired for Batroun, we were
told it was “down below,—there!” but the gray sea-line was still very
distant: and I knew that Batroun stood out into the sea. It was just
twelve hours from breakfast, when we descended our last long and formi-
dable hill;—a glaring limestone steep, with precipices on the left hand.
At one point, the path made a sharp turn on the very verge of a pre-
cipice, at a great height. My sight was dim, my head giddy, and my
limbs trembling from exhaustion,—-my fatigue having been greatly
aggravated by the uneasiness of my saddle, since the accident in the
morning. As I saw my companions passing this point singly and
slowly,I had some doubts about doing it myself ; andl carefully looked
away from the precipice. At the most critical moment,—on the very
vergeF-my saddle turned. By a sudden check,I pulled my horse
round, so as to fall on the ground instead of down the steep. My com-
panions could not persuade me to mount again till we were on level
ground. Mrs. Y. rode on to send me wine: and by means of that re-
freshment, and Mr. E.’s stout stick to help my sprained ankle, I at last
reached the bottom of the hill. Then there was nearly an hour’s ride
to Batroun. We found blessed rest when we got there. Our tents
were pitched on a low grassy cliff just above the breakers, which
lulled us with their steady roll and dash upon the shingle of the beach.
The sun had set: but the gray clouds which hung above the sea still
showed a crimson glow: and there was a streak of yellow light on the
waters near the horizon. As I lay on the thick grass and daisies in the
tent, listening to the sea, I felt very well satisﬁed with the adventures
of the most fatiguing day of our travels.

The next day, (Sunday, May 9th,) was easy enough. We had the
refreshment of sea-bathing to begin with; and the journey was short
and safe :—safe for a party numerous enough to defy the robbers who
are said to abound along this shore.-——When we came forth in the morn-
ing, we found that Batroun was on our right hand, standing out ﬁnely
into the sea, on a picturesque rock. This place gives its title to a Ma-
ronite prelate: and the inhabitants are chieﬂy Maronites. Some of
them came about us, and seemed kindly and cheerful.—Our road this

