urn. 868

wall was deep and solid, and the inside of the tank had been stuoooed
throughout.

Partly by steps, and partly by sheer clambering, we reached a very
high point—a round summit—~from whence we obtained as ﬁne a view
of the whole place as its own obstructions allow. Nothing could be
more unlike the gorge I had imagined before I came. We looked
down on a large area of undulating ground, with its terrace lines now
clearly marked enough, and the sites of many great buildings as evi-
dent as the still-standing Palace itself, with their overthrown columns
lying beside them in’ round fragments. The water-course wound
through the midst, with its confusion of shrubs and bordering rocks.
To the south, appeared the single standing column, stationed above the
craggy way by which we had arrived, and by which we were to-mor-
row to depart. Our platform and tents now appeared to be nearly in
the middle of the area. Behind them rose rocks, range behind range,
pierced with portals, gradually increasing in hei ht, and offering more
facades, till the eye, traveling eastwards, arrived at the valley where
the theatre is, and could detect the dark cleft of the Silt. Further
round to the east, rose the great group of facades which we visited
yesterday: and then the whitish outside mountains showed them-
selves, giving an idea of an opening to the north, which the guards,
however, deny. All the rest of the circumference was ﬁlled up with
vast precipitous summits, (behind which E] Deir was hidden.) gorges,
and the mystery of steps, cisterns, and caves, till the eye arrived at
the western facades, and the single column again. This bird’s-eye
view was very valuable: and I do not know that it indicated any one
great object left unachieved; though, as I need not say, there is work -
for many successive travelers, and for many weeks of research, when-
ever a qualiﬁed party will set their minds upon going through with it.
The only thing I much regretted leaving unvisited was a pyramid
perched upon an extraordinary height ;-—we thought higher than El
Deir. We can ht a sight of it now and then between the clefts of the
precipices ; an best,I think, from the platforms before the eastern fa-
cades. We have no idea what it is, or how it is to he reached.

In the afternoon came the Sheikh again, with new demands! The
conference between him and Alec was a capital spectacle—Alec on his
haunches before the iron-faced old man—the dragoman’s mobile coun-
tenance now astute, now winning! Hussein refused porter; but his
heart was softened when Mr. Y. offered him ﬁgs. He gained nothing
else by his demands: yet he embraced Mr. E., and declared that he
was certainly the greatest man in Europe, and one whom he would
always have for his friend.

In the evening, Mr. W. came to give us the result of his visit to the
Greek inscription. It was soon told. The whole facade had fallen—
brought down, no doubt, by the rains of yesterday! When the party
arrived, they found the way blocked up by masses of stone ; and the
guides were aghast at the ruin. It was well for us, and more than we
could have expected, that they did not attribute the mischief to the
profanation of our visit, and take vengeance on us accordingly. Mr. W.

