48 mm.

mood of Hope in regard to the Nile! Who cannot see what a stimu-
lating and enlivening inﬂuence this periodical anxiety and relief must
exercise on the character of a nation l—Aud then, there is the eﬂ'cct on
their Ideas. The Nile was naturally deiﬁed by the old inhabitants.
It was a god to the mass; and at least one of the manifestations of deity
to the priestly class. As it was the immediate cause of all they had.
and all they hoped fun—the creative power regularly at work before
their eyes, usually conquering, though occasionally checked, it was to
them the Good Power; and the Desert was the Evil one. Hence came
a main part of their faith, embodied in the allegory of the burial of
Osiris in the sacred stream, whence he rose, once a year, to scatter
blessings over the earth—Then, the structure of their country ori-
ginated or modiﬁed their ideas of death and life. As to the disposal of
their dcad;--they could not dream of consigning their dead to the
waters, which were too sacred to receive any meaner body than the
iucorruptible one of Osiris: nor must any other be placed within reach
of its waters, or in the way of the pure production of the valley.
There were the boundary rocks, with the hints afforded by their cares.
These became sacred to the dead. After the accumulation of a few
generations of corpses, it became clear how much more extensive was
the world of the dead than that of the living: and as the proportion of
the living to the dead became, before men’s eyes, smaller and smaller,
the state of the dead became a subject of proportionate -importance to
them, till their faith and practice grew into what we see them in the
records of the temples and tombs,—engrossed with the idea of death
and in preparation for it. The unseen world became all in all to them;
and the visible world and present life of little more importance than as
the necessary introduction to the higher and greater. The imagery
before their eyes perpetually sustained these modes of thought. Every-
where they had in presence the symbols of the worlds of death and
life ;—-the limited scene of production, activity and change ;—the valley
with its verdure, its ﬂoods, and its busy multitudes, who were all
incessantly passing away, to he succeeded by their like; while, as a
boundary to this scene of life, lay the region of death, to their view
unlimited, and everlastingly silent to the human can—Their imagery
of death was wholly suggested by the scenery of their abode. Our
reception of this is much injured by our having been familiarized with
it ﬁrst through the ignorant and vulgarized Greek adoption of it, in
their imagery of Charon, Styx, Cerberus and'Rhadamanthus: but if
we can forget these, and look upon the older records with fresh eyes,
it is inexpressibly interesting to contemplate the symbolical representa-
tions of death by the oldest of the Egyptians, before Greek or Persian
was heard of in the world; the passage of the dead across the river or
lake of the valley, attended by the Conductor of souls, the god Anubus;
the formidable dog, the guardian of the mansion of Osiris, (or the di-
vine abode ;) the balance in which the heart or deeds of the deceased
are weighed against the symbol of Integrity; the infant Harpocrates,—
the emblem of a new life, seated before the throne of the judge; the
range of assessors who are to pronounce on the life of the being come

