rum or 33310110. 417

The monks, when taken as guides, show in the village the house of
Martha and Mary, as they pretend, and that of Simon the Leper: but
we did not inquire for these, having no wish to mix up anything fabu-
lous with our observations of a place so interesting aslBethany.

Our road led us to the bottom of the valley, where there were
patches of cultivation on the stony soil. We rode for three or four
miles, sometimes on the one bill and sometimes on the other; and then
we began to ascend the hot and rough and dreary road where begin the
dangers of the way “ from Jerusalem to Jericho ;”-—where the traveler
enters among the astnesses of the thieves who have infested the road
from time __immemorial. There is a hollow way which is considered
the most dangerous of all. 1 Here Sir Frederick Henniker was stripped
and left for dead by robbers in 1820. His servants ﬂed and hid them-
selves on the ﬁrst alarm. When they returned, he was lyin naked
and bleeding on the sultry road. They put him on a horse, an carried
him to Jericho, where he found succor. Perhapsxhe was thinking of
the parable of the Samaritan when this accident befell him. I was
thinking of it almost every step of the way.-—Another beautiful story
was presently after full in my mind ;—-a Catholic legend which was told
me by a German friend in America, when I little dreamed of ever being
on the spot. Our read now gradually ascended the high ridge from
which we were soon to overlook the plain of Jericho. The track was
so stony and difﬁcult as to make our progress very slow: and the white
rocks under the midday sun gave out such heat and glare as made me
enterlmore thoroughly into the story of Peter and the cherries than m
readers can perhaps do. And yet the many to whom I have told the
legend in conversation have all felt its beauty. It is this.

Jesus and two or three of his disciples went down, one summer day,
from Jerusalem to Jericho. Peter,—.—the ardent and eager Peter,—was,
as usual, by the Teacher’s side. On the road on Olivet lay a horseshoe,
which the Teacher desired Peter to pick up, but which Peter let lie, as
he did not think it worth the trouble of stooping for. The Teacher
stooped for it, and exchanged it in the village for a measure of cherries.
These cherries he carried (as eastern men now carry such things) in
the bosom-folds of his dress.‘ When they had to ascend the ri ,
and the road lay between heated rocks. and over rugged stones, and
among glaring white dust, Peter became tormented with heat and thirst,
and fell behind. Then the Teacher dropped a ripe cherry at every
few steps; and Peter eagerly stooped for them. When they were all
done, Jesus turned to him, and said with a smile, “He who is above
sltlooping to a small thing, will have to bend his back to many lesser
t in .”

ngm the rid e, we had a splendid view of the plain of the Jordan.
It lay, apparent y as ﬂat as a table, to the base of the Moab mountains
opposite, and to the Dead Sea, to our right,—the south. The surround-
ing mountains were dressed in the soft hues which such an atmosphere

' “ Good measure, pressed down, and shaken together, and running over, shall
men give into your bosom.”-Lulte VI. 38.

27

