468 smart urn.

And at last, after the march of more armies on errands of destruc-
tion, how sweet is the calm which settles down upon this wide ﬁeld of
history when the Messengers of Peace come hither, charged with words
of wisdom and oﬂices of mercy! When Jesus was on his way home-
wards from Jerusalem, “ he must needs pass through Samaria,” and,
of course, over this plain. And we know that when he journeyed
southwards from the lake, accompanied by those who had left their
nets to follow him, he took his way by Nain. How one sees them, in
the fresh morning, coming onwards over the green tracks, and delayed
till the heat of noon by those who issued forth from the villages to
accoat and petition the Teacher! What a multitude on the slopes of
Tabor! and further on, we think of the disciples of John coming to
know who, in truth, he was, and whether they were yet to look for
anothers—One man afterwards traveled this road to Damascus, full of
hatred and murderous thoughts against these children of the kingdom
of peace; but he was soon disabused; and Paul returned an altered
mam—ready to pour out his own blood, but no more to shed that of
others. When the traveler contemplates this succession of events on
their march through this scene, from the restless spirits of the dark
early times to the blessed ministers of a later age, he sees “ the day-
spring from on high" touchin those Galilean hills, and brightening
the plain, and trusts that, dar as are the clouds that yet overshadow
that light, it shall “increase more and more unto the perfect day.”

We were glad to ﬁnd the scene so still and quiet now. The villages
were few, and all retired from our track. That track was green, and
perfectly level. The wild ﬂowers were profuse along the way: wild
artichokes made a sort of fence on either hand: and be ond them was
long grass, where the tall cranes were wading; or ti led ﬁelds, over
WhICl'l the quail was ﬂitting, and from which young partridges ran out
under m horse’s feet. Butterﬂies and dragon-ﬂies glittered in the sun,
and sma 1 birds ﬂuttered about us as if they had no fear of us. We saw
the outline of the villa e of Nain, standing up against the clear sky, on
the promontory of Litte Hermon, to our right hand. Mount Tabor
rose conspicuous from the plain; and we then believed that we should
look abroad from its summit, before many days were over; a hope
which was not fulﬁlled. A little beyond the middle of the plain, a
broad road crossed our track: and here, while waiting for directions
from behind which way to take,I saw a travelin party,——with mer-
chants and merchandize,—going north-eastwards a ong the broad road;
—to Damascus, as I afterwards learned. This is the regular camel-
road from the coast to Damascus.

We were now in Galilee; and it was not long before we began to
ascend the hills which had looked so tempting from Djeneen. They
were very pretty now. when we were climbing up, and winding round
their stony passes. Their recesses were wooded, and goats were brows-
ing on their sides. One pass was ve steep: then we came upon a
well: then we turned round the base 0 two or three eminences, rising
from this high table-land; and then suddenly found ourselves looking
down upon pretty Nazareth. Its modern name is Nﬁsirah.

