432 Issues Lin.

With a most extraordinary gesture, she cast aside her veil, threw open
her arms, prostrated herself at the altar, and not only covered the place
of the cross with kisses, but laid her head into the socket. [could
look no longer, and hastened away to see the one truly interesting thing
in the church.

The tombs of Godfrey of Bouillon and his brother Baldwin were once
shown here ;—sarcophagi on small marble pillars. It is said that the
Greeks destroyed them: and we could ﬁnd only the place where thwe
heroes were said to have been buried. Two stone seats were called
the tombs; but we understood them as merely pointing out the locality.
The inscription on Godfrey’s tomb is worth preserving, at the risk of
some repetition. It is this:

“Hic jacet inclytus Dux Godefridus de Bulion, qui totam istam
terram acquisivit cultui Christiano; cujus anima regnet cum Christa.
Amen.”

His sword and spurs were here,—relics, of whose genuineness there
is no reason to doubt. When I handled them, I was glad I had come.
The sword is not very heavy—plain, and with a hilt which seemed to
us to suit rather a small hand.

In the area in front of the church, there is always a little market of
beads, cruciﬁxes, carved shells, &c.; and here the beggars collect,alarm-
ing the stranger into giving aims, under penalty of contact with their
clothes. The dragoman had to lay about him with a stout stick before
we had any peace.

Our refreshment while in this heathen metropolis of Christendom
was in our walks in the environs. While wandering among the great
natural objects,—‘the valleys, pools, and hills which superstition can-
not meddle with or disguise, all was right, we could recognize for our-
selves the haunts of Jesus, and enter into his thoughts.—We went out
b the Bethlehem-gate, and along the Valley of Hinnom or Gihon.
fibre, and down to the junction of this ravine with the Valley of Jeho-
shaphat, at the ancient Taphet, were once the idol-groves and shrines
where, in the days of Solomon, the worship of Jehovah was joined
with that of the lin ering deities of the prior inhabitants. Here, in
later days, did Jeze l and her royal train come forth to their festivals,
and see the ﬁres lighted in honor of Moloch, where children were passed
through the ﬂames, as a sort of charm, like that which subsists to this
day among the easantry of some Catholic countries. Here, in a yet
later day, were ept up smouldering ﬁres which consumed the dead
. bodies of malel'actors and garbage, making the ravine that accursed
place “where the worm died not, and the ﬁre was not quenched ;”—
the place which was to the Hebrews the image of hell : and overhang-
ing it, on the opposite hill, was the Potter’s Field, where strangers
were buried; and for so long a course of time, that many bones are
still crumbling there. The groves and gardens of the idolaters are
gone; the harp and tabret (Toph, from which came the name of Tophet),
which drowned the cries of the children, and exalted the mirth of the
revelers, are now never heard there. The bodies of criminals, thrown
there to stigmatize the scene of idolatry, and the ﬁlth of the city, have

