420 names urn.

alization of my conception of the forest-haunts of Rosalind and Iaqnes.
I need not say that it was equally unlike anything I had looked for in
the Holy Land. Our tent was close upon the stream; but the heat was
so excessive that we could not bear the tent, and had our dinner-table
placed under a tree, whose roots were washed by the brook. Other
parties of our comrades were dining, or lying on the banks of the stream :
and the Arabs sat in groups near the tents. Every encampment of
travelers in these wild places is beautiful: but I never sawone so beau-
tiful as this.

After dinner, we went to the ruins, at the foot of Quarantania. In
several directions, we saw traces of foundation walls; and on the hill
side was the fragment of an aqueduct; and below, some vaulted re-
cesses, remains of square ediﬁces, and many strewn stones: but no-
thing to mark the site of a ver ancient or extensive city.—The holes in
the strata of the precipices loo ed so like Petra, that some of us wished
to climb up to them: but the chief of our escort, the Sheikh of the
district, stepped in the way, barred the passage, and drew his sword
across his throat, to convey that robbers were there. He told the dra-
goman that being responsible for our safety, he could let no one go to
the caves.

I had before traced the stream up to its source,—about a quarter of a
mile from our tent. The spring bubbled up under some bushes, and
spread, clear and shallow, into a little pond, where some hewn stones
were scattered about, seeming to. show that the source had once been
built over. When we returned from Quarantania, and the toils of the
day were over, Miss and I stole away to the spring to bathe. We
found each a drooping tree which made a close dressing-room; and I
trusted to ﬁnd some spot where the water was deep enough for our
purpose. Under a tree I found a pool chin deep; and there, in that
quiet spot, where there was no sound but the rustle and dip of the
boughs overhead, we bathed,—shaking off the fatigues of a hot and
toilsome day. It was dusk when we came out, and a lustrous planet
hung over the nearest hill.

The Eastern traveler feels a strong inclination to bathe in every
sacred sea, river and spring. We had done it in Arabia; and now the
interest grew as we visited places more and more familiar to our know-
ledge and imagination. How strong the interest is, and how like that
of a new baptism, those at home may not be able to imagine; and such
may despise the superstition which leads hundreds of pilgrims every
year to rush into the Jordan. But, among all the travelers who visit
the Jordan, is there one, however far removed from superstition, who
is willing to turn away without having bowed his head in its sacred
waters!

There was no moon to-night: but the stars were glorious when I
came out of our tent to takeone more look before retiring to rest. Here
and there, the watch-ﬁres cast yellow gleams on the trees and waters:
but there were reaches of the brook, still and cool, where the stars lit-
tered like fragments of moonlight. This day stands in my journ as
one of the most delicious of our travels. A

In the morning of the next day (April 6th), about ﬁve o’clock, I as-

 

