rm'roume memes venues. 71

statues, which would have a ﬁner eﬁ'ect amidst this frontier cataract
than any Madonna del Mare has amidst the lagoons of Venice. The
water here was less turbid than we had yet seen it. Its gushings round
the rocks were glorious to see, and, in my opinion, to feel, as we made
directly towards them, in order to be swirled away by them to some
apposite point which we could not otherwise reach. The only time I
was really startled was when we bumped tremendously upon a sunk-
en rock. I saw, however, that the rowers were conﬁdent and merry;
and when this is the case with local residents, in any critical passage
of foreign travel, one may always feel secure. Remembering this, I
found our hard won passages through sharp little rapids, and the eager-
ness and hubbub of the rowers delightful. But all did not ﬁnd it so:
and truly there was a harum-scarum appearance about the adventure
which justiﬁed a pause and reconsideration what we should do.

It was impossible to obtain any information from the Arabs. Panto-
mime may go a good way with any people in Europe, from a general
afﬁnity of ideas, and of their signs, which prevails over a continent
where there is nearly uniform civilization. But it avails nothing, and
is even misleading, between Europeans and the natives of Oriental
countries. Our gentlemen were much given to pantomime, in the ab-
sence of an interpreter; and it was amusing to me to see, with the
practised eye of a deaf person, how invariably they were misunder-
stood; and often, when they had no suspicion of this themselves.
They naturally employed many conventional signs; and, of course, so
did the Arabs : and such confusion arose out of this that I begged my
friends never to put down in their journals any information which they
believed they had obtained by means of pantomime. It might be that
while they were inquiring about a pyramid, the Arabs might be reply-
ing about the sun: while they were asking questions about distance,
the Arabs might be answering about ploughing: and so on. To-day
we could make out nothing: so we offered very intelligible signs that
we wished to land. We landed in a cove of a desert region on the
eastern shore: and while Mr. E. was drawing maps on the sand, and
the rowers were clamoring and gesticulating about him, I made for a
lofty pile of rocks. a little way inland, to seek for a panoramic view.
It was dreadfully hot: but I obtained a magniﬁcent view of the river,
as well as the surrounding country; by far the ﬁnest view of the Cata-
ract that offered—I could see nothing 'of Philce,‘ which was in fact
hidden behind the eastern promontories: but from the great sweep the
river made above us, and the indescribable intricacy of its channels
among its thousand scattered rocks, it seemed plain to me that it would
take some hours to reach the Sacred Island. I reported accordingly;
and Mr. E. thought he had ascertained from the crew that it would
take three hours to get to Philts. As it was by this time one o’clock,
we decided to return. It afterwards appeared that the three hours the
men spoke of were from our dahabieh to Philce: butl am sure it would
have taken much more.

From my point of observation, I had seen that several weirs were
constructed among the rapids, where a few blackies were busy,—some

