earn. ' 86!;

lower tier of caves. A third had found dry wood, and made a great
ﬁre. Two of the gentlemen and I found ourselves ina cave which
was cold, without guide or dragoman, while the rain was coming down
like a shower-bath. We waited and watched: and a very pretty thing
it was to watch the little white torrents dashing down from the sum-
mits, here and there, as far as we could see. But these same waterfalls
were sending streams down the intervals of the slopes before us,-—in
some places already ankle deep. The whole sky was one dark gray :
and it struck me that. not only was there no prospect of its clearing up,
but that we were too far from home to run the risk of further delay.
My companions objected that we had no guide, and were quite ignorant
of the 1-way; whereas somebody would certainly be coming soon to
look for us. I had a pocket-compass with me, however, and was quite
sure of the general direction. I knew that the tents lay south-west, on
the other side of the water-course. So of? we went, as straight as an
arrow ;—across gttlliee, over hills, through ankle-deep water,-—for it
was no time for picking and choosing our footing. One of my com-
panions was lame that day; but on he must go, over stone-heaps and
through pools. We found a way down into the water-course,—walked
many yards along it,—knowing now where we were,—and got out of
it not far from our platform. Within three minutes, before I had half
pttt off my wet clothes, I heard a shout;——the torrent had come down.
Down it came, almost breast high,—rushing and swirling among
the thickets and great stones in the water-course, giving us a river in a
moment, where we had never dreamed of hoping to see one ! As soon
as I could, I ran out to the verge of the platform; and I shall never
forget the sight. It was worth any inconvenience and disappointment.
We forgot the dripping tent, from which little rills ran upon our bed-
steads: we forgot the lost hours of this last day, and our'damp ward-
robes, and all our discomforts. There was the muddy tortent,—or
rather the junction of two torrents, which divided the channel between
them for some way ;—the one which had come from the Sik, and past
the theatre, being muddy, and the other, from the north-east, being
clear. On came the double stream, bowing and waving the tamarisks
and oleanders,—the late quarters of the Arabs, who were now looking
on from the opposite bank l—Just before sunset, I went to look again.
The white waterfalls were still tumbling from the sleeps; and the whole
scene was lighted up bya yellow glow from the west, where the sky
was clearing. The torrent was still dashing along, making eddies
among the stones; and beyond it, in a thicket, under a wall of rock,
was a group of Arabs round a ﬁre, whose smoke curled up above the
trees.-—At night, I went out once more; and that was the ﬁnest of all.
The torrent was too deep within its banks to be touched by the moon,
which was now shining brightly. The waters could scarcely be seen,
except in one spot where they caught a gleam from an Arab ﬁre.
But at this hour, its rush seemed louder than ever. Iwas startled
to see how many were looking at it with me. All along the opposite
ridge, and on every point of the descent, were dim ﬁgures of Arabs;
and in the precipices, there was quite an illumination. Row beyond

