1“ mm ma.

sink, and the walls close in, so that the whole ediﬁce contracts, the
door-ways lessening in proportion; and an appearance is given of a
lon er perspective than exists. .
n the sculptures on the walls, the king pays his duty to the gods,
and receives privileges from them. The Supreme is here; with the
ether two who complete the highest triad: and some inferior deities in-
troduce the king into their presence, while the god of letters, Thoth,
notes the dates of the royal victories on his palm-branch. Else-where,
the Supreme presents him with Life and Power: and in the same hall,
the Supreme gives him the falehion and sceptres, ordering him, as
the inscription tells us, to smite his foreign enemies with the one, and
rule Egypt with the other."* How he obeyed these orders, other pic-
tures and legends tell us. One captive group, whom he holds by the
hair, are declared to be “foreign chiefs:” and there are Asiatic and
other distant enemies amon *the vanquished in the battle-pieces, and
the names of towns inscribe among the legends, as well as represented
in sculptures of stormin and sieges. As for his home affairs, we ﬁnd
a procession of twenty-three of his sons, and a group of three daugh-
ters. The names of the sons are all inscribed. Elsewhere there is a
recession of priests, bearing the ﬁgures of the Theban ancestors of the
'ng.1‘ There is an inscription in the great hall, on one of the archi-
n-aves, describing the valuable and beautiful character of this ediﬁce,
and dedicating the sculptures to his father,—the Supreme, who says,
“I grant that your ediﬁce shall be as stable as the sky.” (Alas! to
look round upon it‘ now !) Isis adds, “I grant you long life to govern
t.”;t The next chamber seems, as some of — the learned think, to

have been the library of the palace. The ceiling bears an astronomical
subject; and an inscription, declaratory of the value of the building of
this apartment, alludes to the “ books of Thoth,” the god of letters.
This primitive Mercury is here attended, as Champollion records, by
a ﬁgure with an eye on his head, and surmounted by a legend “ Sense
of Sight ;” the goddess Saf being attended in like manner by a ﬁgure
with an ear on his head, and labelled “ Sense of Hearing :”-—(Sdlem.)
' Champollion interprets these ﬁgures as indicators or guardians of the
library,--“ the books of Thoth.” On its walls, the (priests bear shrines
in procession. But before the kin had leisure, an perhaps qualiﬁca-
tion for thus honoring the gods an himself, he had to 'n his fame,
add to his dominions, and put down his enemies. On t e outer walls,
accordingly, we find his adventures, in a wonderful collection of battle
sculptures. What we see are a mere remnant of what existed. The
greater number lie in fragments under the mounds of fallen stones:
,but enough are left to teach us much. The battle-scene on the wall of
the area exceeds any representation I ever saw for quantity in a given
alpaca. It is barbaric, though including tokens of no mean civilization.
-: here is the common barbarism of making the conqueror and his equi-
page gigantic in comparison with all the other ﬁgures. He stands in a

' Wilkinson’s Modern Egypt and Thebes, II. 154. 1' Ibid. 151.
I Champollion. Lettres sur l’Egypte.

