218 man am.

still never thought of my trumpet, till, at the end of three hours and a
half from my parting with it.I saw it in the hands of the Arab. and
was reminded of the astonishing fact that I had heard as well without
it as with it, all that time. Such a thing never happened before, and
probably never will again; and a stronger proof could not be offered of
the engrossing interest of a visit to the Pyramid.

The sheikh who met as on the spot, appointed our attendants;—
three to each of us. Mr. E. set out ﬁrst,——waving an .adieu to us till
we should meet aloft. He mounted with a deliberate, quiet step, such
as he could keep up to the end, and reached the summit in seventeen
minutes. It took me about five minutes more.

On looking up, it was not the magnitude of the Pyramid which made
me think it scarcely possible to achieve the ascent; but the unrelieved
succession,—almost inﬁnite,—of bri ht yellow steps; a most fatiguing
image l—Three strong and respects le-looking Arabs now took me in
charge. One of them, seeing me pinning up my gown in front, that I
might not stumble over it, gave me 'his services as lady’s-maid. He
turned up my wn all round, and tied it in a most squeezing knot,
which lasted aﬁothrough the enterprise. We set out from the north-
east corner. By far the most formidable part 'of the ascent was the ﬁrst
six or eight blocks. If it went on to the top thus broken and precipi—
tous, the ascent would, I felt, be impossible. Already, it was disagreea-
ble to look down, and I was much out of breath. One of my Arabs
carried a substantial camp-stool, which had been given me in London
with a view to this very adventure,—-that it might divide the higher
steps,-—some of which, being four feet high, seem impracticable enough
beforehand. But I found it better to trust to the strong and steady lift-
ing of the Arabs in such places, and, above everythin , not to stop at
all, if possible; or, if one must stop for breath, to stan with one’s face
to the Pyramid. I am sure the guides are right in taking people
quickly. The height is not so great, in itself: it is the way in which
it is reached that is trying to look back upon. It is trying to some
heads to sit on a narrow ledge, and see a dazzling succession of such
ledges for two or three hundred feet below; and there, a crowd of dimi-
nutive people looking up, to see whether one is coming bobbing down
all that vast staircase. I stupped for a few seconds two or three times,
at good broad corners or ledges.—When I left the angle, and found
myself ascending the side, the chief difﬁculty was over; and I cannot
say that the fatigue was at all formidable. The greater part of one’s
weight is lifted by the Arabs at each arm; and when one comes to a
four feet step, or a broken ledge. there is a third Arab behind. When
we arrived at a sort of recess, broken in the angle, my guides sported
two of their English words. crying out “ Half-way !” with great glee.
The last half was easier than the ﬁrst; and I felt, what proved to be
true, that both must be easierthan the coming down. Iarrived second,
and was kindly welcomed to that extraordinary spot by Mr. E. Mrs. Y.
appeared presently after; and lastly, Mr. Y. ;—all in good spirits.

I was agreeably surprised to ﬁnd at the tap, besides blocks standing
up which gave us some shade, a roomy and even platform, where we

