NIIROD'I won. 487

more trace the simple Christianity of Christ himself, in visiting his
haunts, but were entering upon the scene of an extraordinary congress
of Deities, brought together, not to form a pantheon, but by the accidents
of time, and the unsatisﬁed needs of human nature.

We began at the earliest date. Our resting-place, this ﬁrst night in
the Damascene territory, was at Nimrod’s Tomb. The very name
carried us back further in the world’s history than our imaginations
had traveled since we leftEgypt. It is true, the Jews hold traditions
of Nimrod, which would make him live no longer ago than Abraham.
They say that Nimrod cast Abraham into the ﬁre for not worshiping
the sun ; but that Jehovah forbade the ﬂames to touch him, and brought
him into Canaan. But other traditions represent Nimrod as seceding
from the company who built Babel, in disgust at their immoralities.
This would make him much older than Abraham. At all events, in
the traditions of Nimrod, and in the remains of the ancient pyramidal
ﬁre altars which are scattered about the country, we have traces of the
earliest worship known to have been practised here. And this wor-
ship is believed to exist still, in certain recesses of the Lebanon. The
worship of the sun, as direct and unmixed as it ever was at Baalbec or
at Samaria in Jezebel’s days, is believed to be practised at this hour in
some retired places of the land we were now entering upon.-—Then,
there is the old Egyptian method, with a good deal of its doctrine, ex-
isting among the Druses. It is very diliicult to ascertain what their
faith and worship are, because they have mysteries, like the men of
old; and these mysteries are as well concealed as of old. Some
suppose them to bear about the same relation to the Mohammedans
as the Samaritans did to the Jews: and there may be among them
about as much of Egyptian philosophy and faith mixed with their Mo-
hammedanism as the Samaritans had of Assyrian faith and worship
incorporated with their Judaism. Their incarnate Messiah, Hakim,
(to whom there is an inscription in a mosque at Cairo as the Supreme
God.) may contain some Jewish and some Christian elements: but the
division of castes, and the practices of their mysteries among the Druses,
remind one strongly of the old Egy ptians :—and yet the Druses are an
offset from Mohammedanism.—There are Jews,—a very fem—much
like what the oriental Jews of these days usually are.—-Then there
are Christians of many sorts; and all so unlike anything that the
biographcrs of Christ could have conceived of, that, but for the lights
of history, it would be a wonder how they ever came by the name.
Besides the ordinary Greek and Latin Christians, Armenians and Nes-
torians, there are the Maronites; a curious kind of Christians. who, at
one and the same time, practice monachism to an extraordinary extent,
and preserve the old oriental Law of Revenge. They read the Psalter,
and two or three puzzling books on Divinity,—Thomas Aquinas being
their favorite author; and. for the rest, though they are in communion
with Rome, they are nearly independent in their proceedings under
their own patriarch, and present as barbarous a phase of Christianity
as can anywhere be found.-—Outnumbering all these religious bodies
together, are, of course, the Mohammedans,—-the most interesting 06'-

