banners. 501

trees, whose boughs were bending and cracking with the weight of
their produce. Twigs of a plttm-tree, thickly studded with green
fruit, were offered to us, to carry away; and the stem of my chibouque
was one day embossed with fresh-gathered roses. The Cafés within
the city, where the people go to smoke and talk, are very inferior to
those in the environs. They are too much trodden, and too town-like;
and the wooden platforms are sordid. Butall are blessed with running
waters and»the shade of trees; and all aﬂ'ord exquisite pictures of
grouped ﬁgures to the eye of the passing stranger.

Our rides were always charming,—-the green tracks winding among
orchards and ﬁelds, coming out sometimes on a little green eminence,
and sometimes on a meadow, or a bridge, or a reach of the river.
The old trees, ponds, water-courses and grassy “nooks were very Eng-
lish, on the whole, but luxuriant beyond English imagination. One
tree in the city,—a plane growing in the middle of a bazaar,--was
measured by us, and found to be thirty-eight feet in the girth.-—-By
far the ﬁnest of our rides was that which showed us the celebrated
view of the city from above the suburb of the Salaheeyeh. We rode
for nearly an hour through narrow streets, and past many mosques,
before we found ourselves outside the city. .Then we ascended the
hill-side, not as high as the grottoes, but above the cemetery: and
thence, looking back, saw a picture which appeared as if it must melt
away in its own beauty. It is this view which makes the Mohammed-
ans declare Damascus to be the ﬁrst of their four terrestrial paradises.
The rich yellow city, with its forty minarets, springs up from the
midst of the glorious verdure which looks as thick as a forest for miles
round. Verdure springs up within the city too; and a village here, a
mosque there, and then a bridge, or a reach of road or water, peeps
out from amidst the surrounding wood; so that the intermingling of
city and forest is most temping to the fancy, as well as delicious to the
eye. Beyond the oasis lies the plain; and beyond the yellow plain,
the tinted hills on every side; their hues soft and repressed, as if to
set off the brilliancy of the gem which lies in the midst. I never
saw anything like this again ;-—anything nearly so sweet and gay.
We passed over the same spot inlleaving the city; but the morning
light was not favorable to it: and it was nut like the same scene.

Among the mosques which we visited in the course'of this ride, was
one which mi ht have been, as we saw it, a painter’s dream. Two
soldiers were [gounging in the weedy gateway. In the long grass with-
in lay the sculptured ornaments of the dismantled chamber. A broken
reservoir was in the midst, its waters brimming over the sides into the
grass; and a soft green light was cast over it by the pendulous, leafy
ﬁg-tree above. A shattered column lay at hand, moist and garlanded
with ferns.

Very unlike this was the Mosque of the Derweeshes, which we
next visited. It must once have been handsome; but it has now all
the sordidness of decay, without any of the grace of desertion. The
lead is stripped off its many cupolas by the weather; and the colors
are stained on the walls: but the surrounding buildings are made into

