novnun news or nurn. 167

in, and the companions beside him, and the unseen region of ideas which
lies about him as infantine nations do, he is impelled to refer his activity
and his desires to the future which he supposes to contain what he at
present wants and cannot ﬁnd. It is with puerile man as it is with the
child who is never satisﬁed with the present, but always stretching for-
ward into the unknown future,—not knowing the value of what is under
his hand, but neglecting it in dreams of what he shall have and do in
some desirable state by and by. The aspiration is instinctive, and
therefore right: but as yet unenlightened and undisciplined. As he
grows up, the present becomes more to him, and the future less. In
proportion as he becomes truly wise he discovers that in the present
scene and moment lies more than his best industry can understand and
his best powers achieve. He brings home his faculties; and ﬁnds in
the present enough to occupy them all, and to ﬁll his life completely full
of interest, activity, and advancement. It is only a child, grown or un-
grown—an ignorant and undisciplined child—who would weep for more
worlds to conquer: and he is the wisest man who knows that he has
always many unexplored and ungovemed worlds on his hands which
should leave him no leisure for looking forward into a futiire which he
cannot penetrate. It is with races of men as with individuals. Not
knowing yet how to employ their aspirations and desires on the un-
fathomable and inexhaustible universe in which they are placed; not
knowing how adequate their existing human powers are, if fully ex-
ercised, to their present human work; not knowing how exact is the
momentary retribution of ﬁdelity or unfaithfulness to their powers and
, their work, they are perpetually referring to the future for a wider scene,
for new powers, and for arbitrary reward and punishment. There is
nothing blameworthy or despicable in this. On the contrary, the tend-
ency comes in happily to lift men over their infantine age of inexperi-
ence, as the child is ennobled by the forecast of his hapes before he can
be yet more ennobled by the wisdom of his self-knowledge. And every
working of instinct, every direction of natural aspiration, is to be revered
in its proper place and at its proper time. We truly respect, accordingly,
the child’s or the peasant’s notion of a literal judgment day, when there
will be a process of trial, with books of account opened, and a sentence
passed in words, and burning inﬂicted in the one case, and whatever
the individual most desires conferred in the other. We truly respect
these notions in the child and the peasant, while we know that no en-
lightened and disciplined man looks forward to any such actual scene.
And the enlightened and disciplined man knows that while he continu-
ally thinks less of the future, as the inestimable present of life and duty
Opens before his contemplation and his industry, his hold of that in-
estimable present will appear weak and careless to a wiser than he who
will come after him. Thus must we, who look back some little way,
and from some small height, upon the track of ages, regard with serious
respect, the engrossing attention that infantine nations gave to death and
the state of the dead; the records they have left of their puerile pride,
ambition and violence proving that, at the same time, they were but
little aware of the value of what they held in the present life, with all

