wamxu mountains or rm: savanna. 105

face of its cathedrals, and the civil history of any country, from its
earliest times, thus engraved on all its public buildings and palaces,
and he may form some conception of what it would be, in regard to
more amount, to be able to read the inscriptions in Egypt. If he is
also aware that the religion, philosophy and science of the world for
many thousand years, a religion, philosophy, and science which reveal
a greater nobleness, depth, and extent, the more they are explored, are
recorded there, under our very eyes and hands, he will see that no
nobler task awaits any lover of truth and of his race, than that of ena-
bliug mankind to read these earliest volumes of its own history.

And the world has no other resource in regard to this object. There
is no doubt about the ancient Egyptians having had an extensive written
literature: but it is lost. It was shelved when the Greek language and
literature became the fashion in Egypt: and previous circumstances
had been unfavorable to the preservation of the rolls of goat and sheep
skins, and the subsequent papyri, which contained the best thoughts of
the best men of ﬁve or six thousand years ago. We may mourn over
this ;—we must mourn, for it is certain that they knew things that we
are yet ignorant of, and that they could do things which we can only
wonder at :--but the records are lost, and no man can help it now.
There has been later damage too, clearly traceable. We all know how
early Christianity was introduced into Egypt: and all who have been
there have seen how indefatigable the early Christians were in destroying
everything relating to theancient pe0ple and their faith that they could
lay their hands on. Again, the Emperor Severus carefully collected the
writings which related to the mysteries of the priests, and buried them
in the tomb of Alexander. .And again, Diocletian ordered all the
Egyptian books on alchemy to be destroyed, lest these makers of gold
should become too rich to remain dependent on Rome. Thus scarcely
a vestige of the ancient writing on destructible substances remains, and
the monumental records are our only resource. While we take to heart
the terrible loss, let us take to heart also the value of the resource, and
search for the charm which may remove the spell of dumbness from
these eloquent old teachers. Perhaps the solemn Memnou may yet
respond if touched by the warm bright rays of zeal and intelligence:
and the great Valley may take up the echoes from end to end. And
this is a case where he who gives his labor quickly gives twice. Time
is a more efﬁcient defacer than even the Coptic Christians: and the
indefatigable enemy, the Desert, can bury old records on a vaster scale
than any Severus. There. are rulers bearing sway, too, ,who are not
more enlightened than the mischievous Diocletian. '

As for the Egyptian method of recording the language, there were
three kinds of writing: the Hieroglyphic, or picture writing; the Hie-
ratic,—an abridged form of the hieroglyphic, used by the priests for
their records; and the Enchorial, in pOpular use, which appears to be
a still further abridgment of the hieratic, whose signs have ﬂowed into
a running hand. Written language is found among the very earliest
memorials of this most ancient peeple.

As for their social organization, we know more of it than of most

