it turns urn.

seeing a row of statues precisely alike in all respects. We did not
feel it now: for one of the faces being white, and another being broken,
and many details lost by distance, the resemblance was not complete
enough to cause in us that singular emotion.

The smaller temple of “ the Lady of Aboshek,”—Athor—beside the
large one, is very striking, as seen from the river. The six statues on
the facade stand out boldly between buttresses; and their reclining
backwards against the rock has a curious eﬂ'ect. All about both tem-
ples are inscribed tablets, which look like doors opening into the rock.
We had now seen, for the ﬁrst time, a rock temple: and we were glad
that it was the noblest that we saw ﬁrst. In estimating it, we must
remember what Ethiopia was to the Egyptians of its time. The in-
scription “foreign land” is appended to the titles of Athor in the
smaller temple: and the establishment of these ediﬁces here is what it
would have been to the Romans who, conquering Great Britain, should
have carried their most solemn worship to the Orkneys, and enthroned
it there in the noblest ediﬁce they could erect. But we could not fully
estimate this till we had examined the temple on our return: nor can
my readers do so till the time comes for a fuller account of these great
works.

The wind was favorable all day, and at night, as we approached
Wadee Halfa, very strong. It is to he wished that we had some full
meteorological reports of these regions, both for the sake of science
and the guidance of travelers. Every voyager,I believe, speaks of
strong wind, and, in the traveling season, north wind, near Wadee
Halfa. Has any one heard of calm weather there? On inquiry, on
the spot, we were told that there is almost always a strong wind, and
frequent gales: sometimes from the south, but usually from the north.
This night we had experience of a Nile gale.

Our sail was rarely tied, any part of the way; and our ,Nnbian Rais
had it always held. To-night it was held by a careful personage, who
minded his business. First, our foresail was taken in, as the wind
rose. Then we went sounding on, the poles on each side being kept
constantly going. Nevertheless, we struck on a sandbank with a great
shock, and the main-sail was let ﬂy. Half-a-dozen poor fellows, al-
read shivering with cold, went over the side, and heaved us 011'. The
win continued to rise: the night was growing dark; and presentl
we grounded again. The sail was let go; but it would not ﬂy. The
win strengthened; the sail was obstinate, and the men who had
sprung aloft to furl it could not get it in. We seemed to be slowly but
surely gain over: and for several minutes (a long time in such cir-
cumstaneesg it seemed to me that our only chance was in the mud-
bank on which we had struck being within our depth. But it was a
poor chance; for there was deep water and a strong current between
us and the shore: and it was in an uninhabited part of the country.
Of our own party, no one spoke. Mr. E. was the only one of us
who understood these matters; and as he stood on the watch, we
would not interrupt him by questions. Indeed, the case was plain
enough; and I saw under his calmness that he felt this to be, as be

