24 nas'rsns urn.

the only chance a stranger has of doing no mischief is by reporting
nothing. I have my own impressions, of course, about the political
prospects of Egypt, and the character of its alliance with various Eu-
ropean powers; but while every word said by anybody is caught up
and made food for jealousy, and a plea for speculation on the future,
the interests of peace and good-will require silence from the passing
traveler, whose opinions could hardly, at the best, be worth the rancor
which would be excited by the expression of them.

 

CHAPTER II.

FROM ALEXANDRIA TO CAIRO—FIRST SIGHT OF THE PYRAMIDS.—
PREPARATION S FOR NILE VOYAGE.

ON the 25th of November, we left Alexandria, rising by candle-light
at six, and seeing the glorious morning break by the time we were
dressed. Our days were now nearly eleven hours long: at the short-
est, they would be ten. We were not struck, as we expected to be,
by the shortness of the twilight. Instead of the immediate settling
down of darkness, after the disappearance of the sun,I found that I
could read small print for half an hour after sunset, in our most south-
erly latitude. -

I do not remember to have read of one great atmospheric beauty of
Egypt ;—the after-glow, as we used to call it. I watched this nightly
for ten weeks on the Nile, and often afterwards in the desert, and was
continually more impressed with the peculiarity, as well as the beauty,
of this appearance. That the sunset in Egypt is gorgeous, everybody
knows; but I, for one, was not aware that there is a renewal of beauty,
some time after the sun has departed and left all gray. This discharge
of color is here much what it is among the Alps, where the ﬂame
colored peaks become gray and ghastly as the last sunbeam leaves
them. But here, everything begins to brighten again in twenty min-
utes;—the hills are again purple or golden,-—the sands orange,—-the
palms verdant,—the moonlight on the water, a pale green ripple on a
lilac surface: and this after-glow continues for ten minutes, when it
slowly fades away. ' ‘ .

Mr. E. had brought with him his noble dog Pierre, which creitted a.
far greater sensation in Alexandria than we did. EurOpean men and
women are seen every day there; but so large a dog had probably
never been known in that region. Women and children, and even men,
ﬂed into their houses, or behind walls, at Pierre’s approach. every
morning during our walks. Pierre was not safe. Between the jea-
lousy of the native dogs, the fears of the Arabs, and the perils of the
desert, Pierre had little chance of secure traveling; and so his master
sent him home. We left Alexandria without Pierre: but we had a
much better servant in the dragoman engaged there by Mr. E.,—Alee
Mustafa,—\vho traveled with us till we reached Alexandria again, the

