THE mm. 47

inhabitants as in Egypt. There everything depends—life itself, and
all that it includes—on the state of the unintermitting conﬂict between
the Nile and the Desert. The world has seen many struggles; but no
other so pertinacious, so perdurable, and so sublime as the conﬂict of
these two great powers. The Nile, ever young, because perpetually
renewing its youth, appears to the inexperienced eye to have no chance,
with its stripling force, against the great old Goliath, the Desert, whose
might has never relaxed, from the earliest days till now; but the giant
has not conquered yet. Now and then he has prevailed for a season;
and the tremblers whose destiny hung on the event, have cried out that
all was over: but he has once more been driven back, and N ilus has
risen up again, to do what we see him doing in the sculptures,—bind
up his water-plants about the throne of Egypt. These ﬂuctuations of
superiority have produced extraordinary effects on the people for the
time: but these are not the forming and training inﬂuences which I am
thinking of now. It is true that when Nile gains too great an accession
0f strength, and runs in destructively upon the Desert, men are in despair
at seeing their villages swept away, and that torrents come spouting out
from the sacred tombs in the mountain, as the fearful clouds of the sky
come down to aid the river of the valley. It is true that in the oppo-
site case, they tremble when the heavens are alive with meteors, and
the Nile is too weak to rise and meet the sand columns that come
marching on, followed by blinding clouds of the enemy; and that
famine is then inevitable, bringing with it the moral curses which
attend upon hunger. It is true that at such times strangers have seen
(as we know from Abdallatif, himself an eye-witness) how little
children are made food of,"I and even men slaughtered for meat, like
cattle. It is true that such have been the violent effects produced on
men‘s conduct by extremity here ;—eﬂ‘ects much like what are pro-
duced by extremity everywhere. It is not of this that I am thinking
when regarding the inﬂuence on a nation of the incessant struggle be-
tween the Nile and the Desert. It is of the formation of their ideas
and habits, and the training of their desires.

From the beginning, the people of Egypt have'had everything to
hope from the river; nothing from the desert: much to fear from the
desert; and little from the river. What their Fear may reasonably be,
any one may know who looks upon a hillocky expanse of sand, where
the little jerboa burrows, and the hymns prowls at night.- Under these
hillocks lie temples and palaces, and under the level sands, a whole
city. The enemy has come in from behind, and stiﬂed and buried it.
What is the Hope of the people from the river, any one may witness
who, at the regular season, sees the people grouped on the eminences,
watching the advancing waters, and listening for the voice of the crier,
or the boom of the cannon which is to tell the prospect or event of the
inundation of the year. Who can estimate the effect on a nation’s mind
and character of a perpetual vigilance against the desert; (see what it is
in Holland of a similar vigilance against the sea !) and of an annual

f

' Abdallatit; Relation de l’Egypte. Livre II. ch. 2.

