273 mm mm.

Our ride was pleasant enough while it was among ﬁelds, and under the
shelter of hedges and avenues of acacia. On our return by a diﬂ‘erent
route, we were almost strangled with wind and sand.

The obelisk looks well from a distance, springing from among trees:
but as the sole relic of the once brilliant little city, the University of
old Egyptian learning, it is a mournful object enough. When one
comes near, one ﬁnds its very hieroglyphics ﬁlled up and plastered
over by the wild bees. Round its base there is a hollow, fruitlessly
dug to ascertain how dwp its platform lies. The surface of the land
must have risen very much. Yet the circuit of mounds indicates
where the remains of the city lie. This circuit of mounds is what one
should come to Heliopolis to see. It is a moment not to be forgotten
when one stands at the foot of the obelisk, and looks round through
trees and over-stretches of sand at these mounds, and thinks of Joseph
coming here to fetch his wife, and celebrating the marriage with all the
courtly and priestly pomp of the time ;-—and of Moses, sitting here at
the feet of the priests, nurtured with such care and wisdom as would
be given to the education of the son of Pharaoh’s daughter :—and of
Plato, dwelling within this circuit for thirteen years, as it is said, and
almost daily perhaps, in all that time, passing the spot where we are
standing now, and looking up at the tapering lines of sculptures, as we
are now looking up at the bee-cells with which those sculptures are
ﬁlled up. This was one glimpse more into the old world of Egypt,
after the cloud curtain had seemed to cover all. After yielding this
brief glimpse, it closed again, to open no more.

On our retUrn, we were taken to see, in a sort of garden, the tree of
Joseph and Mary; a very old sycamore, under which, as Jews and
Mohammedans alike believe, the Holy Family reposed when they
ﬂed into Egyph—hy this honor rendering the tree immortal,—ss one
would think it must be, if this be really it. .

In this direction lies the (so-called) Petriﬁed Forest; an absurd
name, meant probably to convey the fact that the quantity of petriﬁed
wood is surprisingly large. The ride to this spot is so interesting that
it matters little what lies at the end of it. After threading the narrow
ways of the city, we emerged by the ﬁne “ gate of Victory,”—the Bab
e’ N usr,—into the eastern Desert, in view of the Tombs of the Mem-
look Kings, past whose courts and domes and minarets we rode in
among the sandhills. We had a ﬁne view of the road to Suez, which
wound away to our left; and then we entered the region of rock and
sand, of heat and drought, where, in a few days, we were to make our
home for many weeks. In about an hour, we began to note some odd—
looking stones lying about in the sand, and among ordinary looking
pebbles. These were pieces of petriﬁed wood. As we advanced,
they lay thicker; and before we returned, we had certainly seen an
astonishing quantity. Fragments of palm trunks, approaching to the
size of logs, were perhaps the commonest kind: but there were several
kinds of wood; even the bamboo was there, with its joints distinctly
visible.

Of course, we visited the Tombs of the Memlook Xingu—commonly

