446 us'ran use.

Our destination the next day (Tuesday, April 15th) was the very
ancient city of Shechem or Sychar, now Nablous. The cistus literally
strewed the ground to-day; and the hollyhocks, of pale and deep lilac,
and of red, grew ﬁnely. There was yellow jessamine slam—From
an elevation of the rocky hills, we caught a peep of the blue Meditate
ranean,—-for the ﬁrst time since leaving Alexandria.

We learned to-day what is meant when people speak of the roads
in Palestine. The nearest resemblance to our English idea of a road
is where a narrow lane, heaped with stones, runs between two walls.
Elsewhere, there is a just practicable passage over shelves of rock.
with a bit of irregular staircase at each end, to get up and down by.
The pleasantest track is that which runs through olive groves. and
along ﬁelds, and across a green plain: and with all their inequalities]
believe these paths are much less fatiguing than a broad, regular, dusty
road would be. The wildness and apparent privacy have a charm
which compensates for some difﬁculty.

We pursued today the long and fertile Hawarrah Valley, where
the crops were rich for miles together, and villages were thickly planted
on the eminences. Still, though we saw many settlements, we were
persuaded that there must be more out of sight,—so vast did the pro-
duce appear in comparison with the population. We were always
wondering what became of the immense quantity of wheat and barley
we saw growing,—to say nothing of the fruit. And this, in a country
which we had imagined, from the accounts of travelers, to be a spec-
tacle to mankind, for desertion and barrenness! Travelers have told
what they saw, no doubt; but they went. for the most part, at adiﬂ’erenl
season. ' I imagine that we saw Palestine in its very best aspect; and
many travelers have happened‘to be there in the intervals between tht
three crops of the year, when the stony, uncovered soil must, indeed.
look parched and dreary. In this month of April, it was green, fresh.
and ﬂowery; and we asked one another repeatedly whether every
mile of the land was not beautiful. I found it full of charm. front
end to end.

As we proceeded to-day, the ground rose in a succession of table-
lands, of which there was a series of three in leaving the Hawan'sh
Valley. We now began to observe the walnut and the mulberry "I
the orchards, and a general growing richness as we approached “the
parcel of ground that Jacob bought,” opposite the opening of the valley
of Sychar.

At the north-east corner of the Gerizim range, the road parts 0337"
one branch ascending the mountain, and the other winding round It!
base. I was riding on before; and seeing the baggage-mules beginning
to ascend, and having a sign from the dragoman to proceed, I took the
upper road; but my companions pursued the lower, which led them
more directly to the great object of this day’s travel,—Jacob's Well.
I was fortunate in taking the upper road, for it afforded me a ﬁne view
of the whole scene at once: and it was not difﬁcult to get down to my
party afterwards. When‘ I had passed the shoulder of the mountain,
the valley of Sychar lay below me, rich with groves and gardens, and

 

 

