386 zamm me.

lady were carrying wax-candles in the way I mentioned. At Bethle-
hem was our introduction to the monkish sights of Palestine.

In the morning, a friar showed us the church, built, as every one
knows, over the cave of the Nativity. It is a handsome church, with
departments for Greek, Latin, and Armenian worship. The crypt
could not be entered then, as mass was going on—and curious was the
effect, as seen from the entrance of the grotto, of the chanting con-
gregation crowded into a subterranean cave, all yellow light, and
smoke, and closeness. It was in these underground places that St.
Jerome lived and wrote; and this was a real interest belonging to the
place. When we returned to the crypt, after mass, we saw the silver
star which is laid in the pavement in the precise spot of the supposed
birth of Jesus; and the recess where Joseph waited for the news, and
the corner where a marble manger has replaced the original one; (for
even the friars did not pretend that this was the original mauger;) and
the place where the Magi presented their offerings; and, at some dis-
tance, the cave where the Virgin lived for. some days after her reco-
very, and where, her milk becoming deﬁcient, she mixed the lime of
the sides with water, and so by drinking it, obtained a supply; and
then other caves where she had lived. As to these grottoes which are
supposed to have been the scene of most of the sacred events, Maun-
drell has some remarks which may sufﬁce, once for all.

“I cannot forbear to mention in this place,” says Maundrell, “ an ob-
servation which is very obvious to all who visit the Holy Land, viz.,
that almost all passages and histories related in the gospels are repre-
sented by them that undertake to show where everything was done, as
having been done most of them in grottoes; and that, even in such cases
where the condition and circumstances of the actions themselves seem
to require places of another nature. Thus, if you would see the place
where St. Anne was delivered of the blessed Virgin, you are carried to
a grotto; if the place of the Annunciation,it is also a grotto; if the place
where the blessed Virgin saluted Elizabeth—if that of the Baptist’s or
our Saviour’s Nativity—if that of the agon , or that of St. Peter’s re-
pentance, or that where the Apostles mad; the creed, or this of the
Transﬁguration—all these places are also grottoes. And, in a word,
wherever you go, you ﬁnd almost everything is represented as done ~
underground. Certainly, grottoes were anciently held in great esteem,
or. else they could never have been assigned, in spite of all probability,
for the places in which were done so many various actions. Perhaps
it was the hermit-way of living in grottoes, from the ﬁfth century down-
wards, that has brought them ever since to be in so great reputation."
That this hermit-way of living is the antecedent of the fact, there can
be little doubt; but the practice and the fact certainl existed before
the time of the Empress Helena, for she was shown holy grottoes, just
as we were. Of course, the Innocents were buried in grottoes too.
1W: were shown in this crypt, an altar under which some of them were

at .

When we went to look abroad from the convent garden, we were be-

set by Bethlehemites asking alms, or offering for sale mother-of-pearl

