482 usual Lin.

site of the palace of the Oman, and the ﬁelds where Jesus walks“
the great Saracenic castle, held for ages in the name of Allah and
Mohammed his Prophet. We saw it long, this day, as we wererid'q
over the boundary hills of Palestine.

These were ourlast hours in the Holy Land. From these hu'ghl
we looked back upon a land of most variegated scenery; and, l emit
not but feel, of faiths curiously commingled, strong as was the Jevist
profession of unity of faith and of race. The main feature of its faith
however, its monotheism, ﬁnally remained unchanged for so long I! t
to serve as a basis for its distinctive character before the wot-H \
Though allegorically impaired by the Pharisaic sect before the timed
Christ, and by the Alexandrian and other Christian parties ever since.
that great doctrine has remained, on the whole, practically establishﬁ:
and this it is which distinguishes this birth-place of a religious hid J
above perhaps every other on earth. Next to this ranks the distiec' 1
tion given it by the appearance of Christ. When men shall hm ‘
learned to receive his doctrine in the simplicity with which he gaveit ‘
—to receive it from himself, from his life and from his words,-—th¢y
will probably become aware that it is its commixture with superstition!
and institutions older than itself which is the cause of its not having
been more extensive and effectual in its operation than the histot'yﬁl
eighteen centuries shows it to have been.-—Encumbered with much ‘
that was never contemplated by the Teacher himself, and that is incow

atible with the whole spirit of his gospel ;--encutnbered with a priest-

ood and ritual of its own, and adulterated with more or fewer of tilt
superstitions of all the nations who ministered to the Hebrew mind.“
is no wonder that the true doctrine of Christ is overlaid and slate“
destroyed. The Paternity of God, extending to all men; the infallible
operation of His Will or Providence; His strict Moral Government
by which moral retribution is inevitable; the~brotherhood of the whole
human race, and in that the promise of peace on earth and good I
towards men :—and the establishment of a spiritual kingdom on eaﬂhv
of which he should be Prince and his followers the administrators. the
dead rising to enter into it, and the living to be admitted without death:
—the expiration of the Jewish Law on the establishment of this but
dom, and the spiritual nature of the new religion, which was to hi"
the heaven and the earth for its temple, and the whole body of be-
lievers for its priests;-these were the points of faith which appeaﬁ ‘9
have been offered by Jesus himself ;-—the simple Glad Tidings WW“ ;
the earnest disciple hears from him when listening to his voice 819'“
in the retirements of Palestine, sequestered from the embarrass}!!! ,
echoes of other countries and later times.—It was thus that Pillow!”
and its Faith appeared to one, at least, as I looked back this day. from
theidridge of the eastern hills, for the last time upon the Valley of ‘1”
Jo an. *

