390 . EASTERN Lm.

aim of their Desert life, to keep them pure from Egyptian popular su-
perstitions on the one hand, and the planetary worship of Canaan on
the other: but they were subject to both for some centuries after their
arrival in Palestine ;—avowedly till the completion of the Law, and
the full establishment of the ritual after the time of Josiah; and uncon-
sciously, in several doctrines and many habits of thought, to the very
last. The golden calf at Sinai was not the only one by very many.
Jehovah was still considered, at times if not always, the chief God of
the Hebrews; and this pre-eminence was asserted by the consecration
of golden calves to him exclusively, which indicated him to be the
Amun, or king of the gods to this semi-Egyptian people. These calves
were set up at Dan and Bethel, and on many a high place between,
in the time of Jeroboam,—three generations after the day when David
brought the ark into Jerusalem, bidding its gates be lifted up, that the
King of Glory might come in.—And as for the Planetary idolatry, the
people not only fell, immediately after their arrival, into the worship
of the oriental Apollo and Diana, but the horses of the Sun, and cha-
riots of the Sun, were set up as consecrated images at the very en-
trance of the House of Jehovah, up to the time of Josiah.‘

Another failure was as to the design of Moses to have but one place
of general worship. For this purpose, he had made one tabernacle ;
and, as he hoped, secured unity of object of worship by giving them
the Ark. But, while the Ark remained at Kirjath-jearim, there were
many places where the priests set up altars of sacriﬁce, and oﬂiciated
at them : and this went on long after David's great act of taking Jebus,
and enclosing and building upon Mount Zion, and bringing in the ark
to sanctify his royal city. How painful it is to this hour to remember
that generations after David had sung his exulting praises of Zion and
the sanctuary, in strains which ﬁre the coldest hearts among us, his
people should have been sacriﬁcing in preference to the Sun and Moon,
or consulting the oracles of Jehovah at Shiloh or N 5b or elsewhere, or
bowing before little images at home, while the Temple of Jehovah,
with the ark in its Holy Place, was set on a hill in the midst of them!
David would rather have been a door-keeper in that House than have
dwelt feasting in the tents of the worshipers of the groves. Solomon's
marriage to an Egyptian wife, and Jeroboam’s residence at the court
of Shishak, after Shishak’s conquest of Jerusalem, were circumstances
unfavorable to the Mosaic faith. The priesthood was not till long
afterwards appmpriated solely to the Levites. They might be pre-
ferred, but they were not the only eligible persons for the oﬂice: nor
were they restricted to serve at the central altars of Jehovah, but oﬂi-
ciated in private dwellings, using images. There was thus no body of
persons at that time whose business it was to take charge of the honor
of Jehovah and the religious interests of the people: and these depended
mainly, therefore, on the mind and character of the king for the time
being. Under the devout David, Jehovah was honored, and his Ark
set on the holy hill. Under Solomon, the national God was so far

' A History of the Hebrew Monarchy, p. 153, note. (London: Chapman)

