380 names Lm.

blue ground. This was covered in like an oven, and wrapped over
with a heap of sordid cloths,—votive offerings. Rage and shreds of
yarn are hung round. in great quantities.—-There is a crypt, reached by
a staircase from this chambermnd we went down to see the place where
the body of Aaron is supposed to have been laid. It is a mere cup-
board, within an unhinged grating.

I went up to the roof for the sake of the view,-—one last view, from
a height, of the boundless Desert. Its horizon line was so high as to
make one look again; to be sure that one had not taken the hazy sky
for it. There it lay, with its broad lights and streaks of shadow be-
yond the crowd of mountains about us. Even my journal declines
describing these, saying only that wildness is the most indescribable of
all the attributes of scenery, and that the wadees running between the
masses catch the eye, and seem the only avenues out of chaos. The
wind at the top was. not high, but rather cold.

We descended the mountain on its north-east side, by what seems to
have been the Calvary path of devotees, by the steps out and facilities
provided. It is very precipitous, but thus made easy. For some way
down, it was like a winding staircase: and this staircase led to a sin-
gular work, not far from the summit. Alighting on a small platform, I
could not but think it artiﬁcial; and on descending a staircase at one
corner, like that which led down to the Nilometer,I found a very large
reservoir, arched over with ﬁfteen arches, which supported the blocks
of hewn stone composing the platform. The descent to the reservoir
was also arched. The cavity was not full of water, but there was still
a good supply. Burckhardt says,‘ “The plain of Haroun and the
neighbori mountains have no springs; but the rain water collects in
low groutilds, and in natural hollows in the rocks, where it partly re-
mains the whole year round, even on the top of the mountain :” and
this is clearly the chief reservoir. When we looked up from below
the platform, we saw that it was supported by a wall of massive ma—
sonry ;—a great work. On the next area, we found such heaps of
building stones, and long lines of foundation,as showed that large erec-
tions had once stood here. There were traces of terraces, one above
another; and a pit which had evidently been a large tank. The place
seems to have been little short of a city: but now we found no signs
of present habitation, except in a shallow excavation, where the ﬂoor
was strewn with dried reeds, on which stood a caldron. A large ﬂock
of goats was seen further down; and the herdsmen probably lived in
these caves.—In a stony valley, an hour and a half from the summit,
we met our camels. The ascent, about which we had taken our time,
occupied two hours: and now, after mounting our camels, we de-
scended for two hours more, before we joined the rest of our party,
and sat down to lunch just after two o'clock.

I was struck by a little incident today, which seems to me curious.
At a diﬂicult part of the ascent, one of my friends advised me to try
his stick. Of course,l would not deprive him of it: so another of

' Travels in Syria, 8a., p. 430.

