mu. 81

the habit of communicati with persons who are not familiar with
their condition and waysﬂiat it is scarcely possible to ﬁnd any uni-
formity of testimony on any matters of custom or arrangemeng—even
the simplest. When the people tell of their taxes, the English traveler
ﬁnds them so enormous that he is incredulous, or too indignant to carry
away any accurate knowledge of the facts, unless he remembers that
taxes in E ypt are not the same thing as taxes in Europe.

As I un erstand the matter, it is thus,with regard to these Nubians.
The Pasha holds the whole land and river of Egypt and Nubia in fee-
simple, except as much as he has given away, for its revenues, to fa-
vored individuals: and his rents are included in what are called his taxes.
In Egypt, the people pay tax on the land. In Nubia, they pay it on the
sakias and palms. The palms, when large, pay a piastre and a quar-
ter (about 3d.) each, per annum: when small, three-fourths of a iastre.
Each .sakia pays a tax of three hundred and ﬁfty piastres, or 3 . 103.;
and the .payer may apprOpriate as much land as the sakia will water.
The quantity taken is usually from eight hundred to twelve hundred
square yards. , . s 4

The mode of collecting the taxes is quite another matter. By cor-
ruption in the agents, or a bad practice of taking the amount in kind,
or on account, the collector ﬁxing the marketable value of the produce,
there may be cruel oppression. In Egypt, it is certain this oppression
does exist to a dreadful extent. - We did not happen to hear of it in
Nubia; andI cannot say how it is there. But, be it as it may, it is a
different question from the amount of tax.

What the peasant actually pays for is the land, as above mentioned,
the water-wheel itself, the excavation in which it works, the shed under
which it stands, and the ox or pair of oxen by which it is driven.
How far his bar ’nanswers to him must depend on the marketable
value of his programs, in a country little affected by variations of sea-
sons. He has not, however, the advantage of an open market. There
is nobody at hand to buy, unless by the accident of a trading kandjia
coming by; and he has not usually the means of sending far. The
tax-collector must therefore commonly be his market; and not such an
one as to enable the stranger to estimate his affairs with any accuracy.
All we could do was to observe whether he seemed to have enough of
his produce left over for the support of his family, and whether his
land appeared to be well tilled. I can only repeat that the pea le
we saw in Nubia looked generally healthful and contented; andt at
they seemed to be making the most of their little belts and corners of
cultivable land. It is to be observed, however, that we remarked a
great number of ruined villages, and that we could obtain no answer
from either dragoman or Rais as to how this happened. They de-
clared they did not know; and, for once, Ales had neither information
nor theory to oﬂ‘er. Which was the popular enemy, the desert or the
Pasha, I cannot undertake to say.

Our kandjia was hired for twenty-ﬁve days, for the sum of 13!. 10s.;
this including all the charges of ascending the cataract, and of the crew
(eight men) except the steersman. Of these eight men,l think four

6

