ssnmnou. 455

and his most beloved friend. In the plain, near the northern end of this
Gilhoa range, was Jezreel. where Ahab built for his sun-worshiping
queen, her famous palace,-—from a window of which she asked Jehu
the fatal question,--“ Had Zimri peace who slew his masterl”—and
from which window she was thrown down, at the command of the sav-
gge con ueror.-—Further along the eastern side of the plain, rises Little

ount ermon. which we had on our right for some hours this morning:
and on one’of its northern spurs lie the remains of the vi] e of Nain.
Here again, we might turn away from the bloody deeds an vindictive
spirits of the earlier periods, to repose on the spiritual calm, and enjoy
the benevolent acts of him who “ came not to destroy men’s lives, but
to save them.” How near together are the two scenes which so strongly
exhibit the differing spirit of the two dispensations! Jehu, coming at
the call of Elisha, was met by the son of the widowed Jezebel as he
was approaching her palace; and he shot the prince through the heart,
and then advancing, instead of attempting to console the widowed and
mourning mother, he commanded her murder, by a cruel and contemp-
tuous death. This was the pupil of the Prophet Elisha. Very near
to this spot, a widowed mother appears in the history of a. later time,
following the bier of her only son: and one arrived who restored her
son to her, after having spoken words of cheer. Here was the spirit
of the new dis ensation l—A little further on is Endor, where the rest-
less and appre ensive Saul came to learn his fate and that of his house,
by means of those arts of Divination which he had declared punish-
a le by death.—A little further on still, is Mount Tabor, traditionally
the Mount of Transﬁguration.—Far beyond these ranges, and towering
over everything intermediate, rises that peak of Djebel Sheikh which
I have mentioned, from whose base ﬂow the ﬁrst streams of the Jordan.
Along the north end of the plain run the Galilean hills, in which Naza-
reth lies embosomed: and where they retreat to the northwest, the
expansion of the plain in that direction nearly reaches Carmel: and
through it runs the Kishon, whose overﬂow swept awa the forces of
Sisera. and whose stream was deﬁled with the blood 0 four hundred
and ﬁfty of the prophets of Baal, slain at the command of Elijah.

Then, approaching us from that north-west point, comes the range
of Carmel, its ilex woods becoming distinguishable on its nearer slopes.
These western hills, without intermitting, decline into the lower ranges
as they reach the south-west of the plain, and there become mingled
with the hills of Samaria.—Nowhere in the Holy Land did we see any
district so various in its historical interests as this: and, indeed, there
is no other so marked. To the eye of the historical and religious
philosopher, the dead rise here, to give account of the life of the He-
?rewnation, from their ﬁrst entrance upon the land to their expulsion

mm It.

First comes the ghostly array of the tribes following Joshua. Some
of them had had their portions assigned on the eastern side of Jordan,
but had obeyed Joshua’s command to defer their settlement there till
the enemy should be everywhere subdued, and the tribes be secure of

