396 nanny: Lm.

lomon had built, offered sacriﬁces, and kept the feast of Tabernacles.
Then followed the rebuilding of the Temple, and the return of Ezra,
the priest and scribe, to look to the thorough re-establishment of the
Law and Worship of his people. He annulled the marriages with hea-
thens which had taken place during the interval of uncertainty and de-
pression; and almost before his work of ecclesiastical puriﬁcation was
completed, Nehemiah arrived to look to the rebuilding of the walls of
Jerusalem. While Nehemiah was superintending this work, Ezra
ﬁnished his revisal of the sacred books, and settled the Old Testament
canon. He changed the text from the old Hebrew to the Chaldee,
which was now more intelligible to the people.‘ The Samaritans not
choosing to adopt the change, the old character was henceforth called
the Samaritan text. The language itself having become strange to the
returned Jews, they needed an interpretation; and in order to give them
one, that solemn public reading was held which is recorded in the 8th
chapter of Nehemiah, when Ezra the Scribe and his coadjutors “ read
in the book in the'law of God distinctly, and gave the sense, and caused
them to understand the reading.”

And now occurs a very interesting period in the religious life of the
Jews :-—the rise of the sect of the Pharisees. At what time precisely
they became'a sect, there is no saying now. Josephus, who was one
of them, only knew that they existed long before his time. They cer-
tainly arose after the promulgation of the law; and probably very soon
after; their particular function,—of delivering the oral law,—being in-
dicated by the written law coming into common use. The main doc-
trine of the Pharisees was that Aaron had handed down an oral law,
and set of traditions, to accompany the written law: and that the tra-
ditions were the more important and valuable of the two, and to be
used for the interpretation of the written law. As they professed to
hold these traditions, there would have been hardly any limits to their
power, if their claims had been fully and universally admitted—as we

now they were not. There were balancing sects; and we see in
the denunciations, both of the Baptist and of Jesus, how the Pharisees
were regarded by those who were reared in, or inclined towards, the
principles of a different sect—The Pharisaic body including men of
education only, it is natural that some of its doctrines should be of
foreign derivation. They were the “ bibliolators” of the Jews, sacri-
ﬁcing the spirit and meaning to the letter of their sacred records; and
building up on every phrase of this letter a structure of arbitrary mean-
ings which made the record “ of none effect.” Some of their materials
for commentary was derived from the Egyptians, and some from the
Greeks (who derived their opinions from Egypt) and some from the
East. Their Pythagorean doctrines about death and the soul were, as
we have before said in connection with Pythagoras himself, coincident
with those of the Egyptians. They believed in the abode of the dead
in Hades: in the immediate and eternal damnation of the souls of the
desperately wicked ; and in the transmigration of all other souls. They

' Palestine, Kitto, p. 653.

