418 smart use.

alone can exhibit. The plain was once as delicious a region as ever
men lived in. Josephus calls it a “ divine region ;” and tells of its miles
of gardens and palm groves. Here grew the balsam which was worth
its own weight in silver, and was a treasure for which the kings of the
East made war. CleOpatra sent a commission, to bring some balsam
plants to Egypt. The whole valley or plain was studded with towns;
and every town was embosomed in verdure, as Damascus is now.
Jericho was but one of a hundred neighboring cities: but it was dis-
tinguished above others by the name of the Cit of Palm trees: and
now, travelers dispute about where Jericho st ! From our height, .
we saw a low square tower rising above some wood, a. few miles 05':
and this tower is by many said to be the only remaining fragment of
the old city: while others suppose its site to be at the base of the hills
we were now on, and refer to Jericho the remains of an aqueduct, and
the walls and arches which are scattered about these bare and rocky
eminences. The scene is indeed very desolate now. The plain is barren.
except for the strip of verdure,—broad, sinuous, and thickly wooded,—
which runs through the midst, marking the channel of the river. The
palms are gone, and the sycamores, and the honey which the wild been
made in the hollows of their stems. The fruits and the sugar canes are
gone ; and instead of these, we now ﬁnd little but tall reeds, thorny-aca-
cias, and trees barren of blossom or fruit. The verdant strip is, however,
beautiﬁtl from afar, beautiful for itself, and because it indicates where the
Jordan ﬂows. It indicates toothat the plain might still be fertile. When-
ever men shall be living there who are wise enough, and free enough. to
be friends with Nature, the plain may again be as rich as it once was.

The peculiarities of the plain of the Jordan are not such as can
disappear within any moderate lapse of time, or be ermanently af-
fected by changes in the conduct of men. The nature features of the
country have here, as in Egypt and elsewhere, much affected and de-
termined the character and life of their inhabitants. The hills, which
enclose the plain, both to the east and west, have a much steeper and
longer descent to the Jordan valley than on their outer sides. In other
words, the valley is extraordinarily depressed. Accordin to Russegﬁel’.
the level of the Dead Sea is between 1300 and 1400 set lower t an
the Mediterranean: and the supposed site of Jericho itself, T74 feet.
The consequence of this depression of a well-watered distriCt is that the
plain has a tropical climate and aspect; and that its inhabitants had a
tropical constitution and habits. They became, in course of time, by
living among their cane.brakes and palm-groves, as unlike their bre-
thren of the eastern tribes who led their ﬂocks over the high table-lands,
as if they had been of a different race. The history of the sinewy.
well-braced, roving eastern tribes is, therefore, conspicuously different.
throughout the Old Testament, from that of the soft and indolent dwell-
ers in the valley. It is signiﬁcantly remarked, in the History of the
Hebrew Monarchy,” that u the actual rulers of the country appear 8‘
every time to have dwelt on the higher grounds.”

' A History of the Hebrew Monarchy, p. 5.

 

