408 smut ma.

zling to look upon in the morning sun; and its golden vine, cover-
ing the front of the Holy place; and its colonnades which separated
the temple itself from its outer courts. I looked for the place where
the Sheep-gate was, and the Water-gate, through which the priest
went down to the spring of Siloam, and declared, as he returned
with the golden ewer, that thus they drew water from the wells of sad-
vation. I looked for the court beyond which the money-changers
should. not have been permitted to intrude; and the Court of the Gen-
tiles, and the Court of the Women; and where the Treasury-chest
stood, so placed on the right of the entrance that when the worshi
threw in his gift, the left hand would not know what the right hand
did. I saw where the Scribes must have .sat to teach, and where
Christ so taught in their jealous presence as to make converts of those
who were sent to apprehend him. I saw where the altar stood, whence
the smoke went up from the morning and evening sacriﬁce: and the
Holy Place, with the ark in the midst; and the long purple curtain—
the veil destined to be rent—which separated it from the Holy of Ho-
lies, where no one entered but the High Priest alone. These places
had been familiar to my mind’s eye from my youth up: and now I
looked at the ground they had occupied, amidst scenery but little
changed, with an emotion which none but those who have made the
Bible the study of the best years of their life could conceive of. But
this was not all. Here it was that Titus saw, from his camp over to
our right, the ﬂames shooting up to destroy the building which he had
resolved to save. Here it was consumed: and here the plough was
brought to destroy the very foundations, so ' that one stone should not
be left upon another. Here it was that “ Moriah became a ploughed
ﬁeld,” and the wild grapes grew where the golden vine had hung its
clusters. It was long after this before any Jew could see his Zion and
Moriah even as we saw them now. All were banished; and when
they returned and hung about the land, hoping to ﬁnd some way in, so
that they might die within sight of their holy hills, they were incest
santly driven back. In the age of Constantine, however, they were
allowed to approach so as to see the city from the surrounding heights ;
—a mournful liberty, like that of permitting an exile to look at his na-
tive shores from the sea, but never to land. At length, the Jews were
allowed to purchase of the Roman soldiers leave to enter Jerusalem
once a-year; and, of all days, on the anniversary of the fall of the city
before Titus ;—and merely to do—what we presently saw their de-
scendants doing.

I have said how proud and prosperous looked the Mosque of Omar,
with its marble buildings, its green lawns, the merry children, and gay
inmates making holiday; all these ready and eager to stone to death
on the instant any Jew or Christian who should dare to bring his
homage to the sacred spot. This is what we saw within the walls.—
We next went round the outside, till we came, by a narrow crooked
passage, to a desolate spot, occupied by desolate peOple. Under a
high, massive, very ancient wall was a dusty narrow enclosed space,
where we saw the most mournful groups I ever encountered. This
high ancient wall, where weeds are springing from the crevices of the

