range. 169

went the next day. Thebes is the last place in the world where one
wishes for society; so I dare say every party of the whole throng was
longing to see all the rest sail away. In the end we enjoyed as much
quietness as we could expect, and suffered no real interruption in our
expeditions. After the exchan e of sundry greetings with our neigh-
bors, the gentlemen and I wa ked up to the ruins of the El-Uksur
temple, and in and out, and round about, till we arrived at some under-
standing of their arrangement and object. We now found how much
we had gained by practice in looking at temples. This was hardly
like the same group of ruins we had visited a few weeks before. By
the training of the eye in the intermediate time, we saw new beauty in
the proportions—and especially of the obelisk—new spirit in the sculp-
tures, and a-bigher and fresher glory in the colonnades. We were not
less but more impressed by the-ma itude of the scale of the architec-
ture, and far more impressible by a l its other features.

When the moon came up,it was time to be returning to our boat, but
as 'we were turning the corner of the ruins, a man accosted us, with an
air of invitation, courteously pointing out a long ﬂight of steps, and say-
ing apparently (but we had, no interpreter with us) sonnething about a
castle. Mr. E. told me this was, no doubt, the guard-house, and we
agreed to go and see it. Instead of governor, garrison, or chained pri-
soners, however, we found an elderly gentleman on his deewin, enjoy-
ing his chibouque. He addressed us in French, ordered coffee and
pipes, oﬂ'ered now some information about the ruins, and next his guid-
ance among them durin our stay at Thebes. When he permitted us
to depart, at the end of alf an hour, Mr. E. said to me, “ Well, now,
who is this that we have been seeing 1'” “Nay,” said I, “that is what
I thought you were going to tell me.” He was certainly no oﬁcial
persona e, and certainly he was a European. He proved to be the
Signor astellare whom we had heard of as having settled himself at
Thebes, to discover antiquities, and explain them to those who have
faith, in his interpretation, and to sell specimens to such as have
money enou h to pay his very high prices for them. It is only by
connivancet at he does these things, for the Pasha’s pleasure is that
none of the antiquities shall leave the country. And the connivance is
not likely to last long, for the people of the place naturally dislike that
a stranger should take out of their hands the trafﬁc with visitors, which
they ﬁnd much more proﬁtable than their inevitable sales to the Signor.
Whenever the Signor does an thing to prove to the world his sound
knowledge on the subject of gyptian antiquities, every one will be
glad of his offered guidance, and of his help, at any price, in securing
specimens. In the meantime, perhaps the works of Champollion, Ro-
sellini and Wilkinson, compared with the old classical writings which
relate to Egypt, will be found to give guidance enough, while there is
seldom any scarcity of illustrative curiosities on the spot.

At midnight, three more boats arrived; and their owners roused the
echoes of the whole region, by ﬁring uns, in honor of the English
boats on the river. We found the Eng ish here generally quite as well
pleased with the behavior of the Arabs as we were. They found their

