802 xasnu urn.

row of the caves gave out yellow gleams; and in the moonlight rose
little pillars and wreaths of white smoke. The Arabs had come up
from the whole country round, at the sound of the waters; and I had
seen Petra populous once more.

I could not have supposed I could like a reeking tent so well. Our
clothes were hung up in all directions, for the chance of a drying: the
air seemed heavy with steam. My bed was wet. though I had bundled
it up under a square of Mackintosh cloth, as well as I could: but we
were very happy still. The best thing was, it was now impossible to
go to-morrow; the tents being too heavy with wet to be portable. It
was no triﬂe to me to have lost all my aches and pains at once : and then
there was the thought that I had seen Petra, with its river and its wild
citizens. We ordered in a large pan of charcoal, and made a very
pleasant evening of it, after all. I thought at the time as I think now,
—that there is an agreeable, as well as useful, virtue in these accidents
of travel; and that those who do not ﬁnd it so, had better make them-
selves comfortable at home.

The next day, the 23d of March, was a proﬁtable one. Instead of
going from cave to cave, which could not now teach us much more. we
made it our object to obtain some general views of the place ; in which
we succeeded. The company divided on this last day. Some of the
gentlemen went again in the direction of the Sik, to make another at-
tempt to copy the oftemmentioned Greek inscription, which was on a
facade near the Khasne. The gentlemen had tried before to spell it out ;
and now it was to be 'copied, if possible. It was the wish of our own
party to trace the area of Petra to the north; so we set out by our-
selves, with a sufﬁciency of armed guides. We thought these Arabs
very ﬁne-looking people, with faces full of life. They were always
civil to us, and evidently much amused at our dress and ways. Our
guides examined Mrs. Y.’s~ cloak and my trumpet, and showed us
their muskets in return. They carried muskets, matchlocks, heavy
clubs, and short-swords. I was never tired of noting their wandering
ﬁgures, brown and gray, on points of rock and sunny slopes.

Our guides assured us that they led us round by the most northerly
part of Petra. Of course, they know best, and must be right; but
there were two ravines which I would fain have explored, if we had
had more time. We passed through some curious chasms this morn-
ing, saw many troughs and cisterns, with steps cut over the 310 s to
each ;—overlooked many excavations, and were completely pnzlel by
a new discovery. We found several pits cut in the rock, one of which
had steps, and the others foot-holes, down one end; and these pits led
each to a subterranean place which was too dark for us to explore. I
hope the next traveler who goes will look to this. The most striking
of the new excavations which we saw was a series of ascending doors
up the side of a ravine, like the doors of houses in a steep street. This
series, and a set of facades in stages, withdrawn behind and above one
another on the southern outskirts, are among the venerable features in
the architecture of Petra. To-day we saw a large tank, partly walled
with masonry, placed close by one wholly cut out of the rock. The

