runs. 169

when he died that he could enter among his peers. He went from the
solitude of that busy, peopled plain to the sanctiﬁed society of the
Valley of Death. To him, this was the great event to which, as we
see, he was locking forward during the best years of his life; and he
devoted his wealth, his thoughts, and the most sacred desires of his
heart to preparation for his promotion to the society of kings, and the
presence of the gods. There, an abode would be prepared for him.
On the walls of his tomb he attempted to paint the succession of man-
sions in the great heavenly house which he was to inhabit at last: but
meanwhile, he was to dwell, for a vast length of time, in the long home
in the valley, where his peers were lying still (whether asleep or vigi-
lant) all round about him.

How ﬁt and Impressive is the choice of this site for the metropolis
of the dead, can be conceived of only by contrasting it with that of the
metropolis of the living. Both might be viewed at once from the moun-
tain ridges behind western Thebes. There is a ridge where strangers
are taken now, to overlook the plain; and glorious is the view: but
to-day I went much higher still, to 'a peak whence I could see quite
down into the Valley of the Tombs, and over every recess of the vivid
green plain,—-every nook which lay between the Arabian and Lybian
hills. I chose to see it as it once was. I made myself three thousand
years old, and saw from my perch what was worth looking at. Great
as are the existing marvels of Thebes, they are, from this height, mere
indications of the presence of man. Sprinkled over the expanse of
verdure, one notices a few heaps of stones,—the temples and palaces;
and a pair of sentinels,—-—the Colossi: and across the blue and brim-
ming river, a little cobweb railing, which is El-Uksur; and a group of
massive towers,—-which is El-Karnac. This, with all its soft freshness
of coloring, all its African brightness, is too sad and dreary to dwell
on. It is better to see it with the eyes of three thousand years ago.

There lies the city below, ﬁlling up all the plain, except where there
is a girdle of ﬁelds. It is those gardens and groves among the houses
which make it cover so large a space; for there never was, in this
world, such a collection of houses as would cover this plain. How
the gardens spread, not only round the palaces, but behind the ranges
of dwellings which we should call streets! How their ponds gleam
on the eye, and their clustres of palms overshadow their lawns, and
intervene between the eye and the ﬂat house-roofs! I can distinguish
the children pushing out from among the reeds in this nearer garden, in
their little papyrus boat of nautilus shape.—How ﬁnely the city rami-
ﬁes,—with no circuit wall, but temple ranges running out in all direc-
tions! That advanced post of temples at intervals is a sufﬁcient defence,
if any foe should dare to come. They are perfect fortiﬁcations; and
the watchmen on the summits of the propyla command the valley in
both directions, as far asathe irregular hill boundary admits. What
masses these are,—these four which command the plain ! El-Karnac
and El-Uksur over yonder, and the Ramaséum and Medeenet Haboo
below me! How they stand, as if each calling to the other! How
each stretches out its dromos, and plants its ﬁles of sphinxes, or its

‘3

