ms HAREEI. 265

humanity. The business of keeping up the supply of these miserable
wretches,—of whom the Pasha’s eldest daughter hasﬁfty for her ex-
clusive service,—is in’ the hands of the Christians of .Asyoot. It is
these Christians who provide a sufﬁcient supply, and cause a sufﬁcient
mortality to keep the number of the sexespretty equal: in considera-
tion of which we cannot much wonder that Christianity does not appear
very venerable in the eyes of Mohammedans.

These eunuchs are indulged in regard to dress, personal liberty, and
often the possession of ofﬁce, domestic, military, or political. When
retained as guards of the hareem, they are in their master’s conﬁdence,
—acting as his spies, and indispensable to the ladies, as a medium of
communication with the world, and as furnishing their amusements,—
being at once playmates and servants. It is no unusual thing for the
eunuchs to whip the ladies away from a window, whence they had
hoped for amusement; or to call them opprobrious names; or to inform
against them to their owner: and it is also no unusual thing for them to
romp with the ladies, to obtain their conﬁdence, and to try their dis-
positions. Cases have been known of one of them becoming the friend
of some poor girl of higher nature and tendencies than her companions;
and even of a closer attachment, which is not objected to by the pro-~
prietor of both. It is a case too high for his jealousy, so long as he
knows that the cage is secure. It has become rather the fashion to
extenuate the lot of the captive of either sex :- to point out how the
Nubian girl, who would have ground corn and woven garments, and
nursed her infants in comparative poverty all her days, is now sur-
rounded by luxury, and provided for for life: and how the Circassian
girl may become a wife of the son of her proprietor, and hold a high
rank in the hareem: and how the wretched brothers of these slaves
may rise to posts of military command or political conﬁdence; but it
is enough to see them to be disabused of all impressions of their good
fortune. It is enough to see‘the dull and gross face of the handmaid
of the hareem, and to remember at the moment the cheerful, modest
countenance of the-Nubian girl busy abouther household tasks, or of
the Nubian mother, with her infants hanging about her as she looks,
with face open to the sky, for her husband’s return from the ﬁeld, or
meets him on the river bank. It is enough to observe the wretched
health and abject, or worn, or insolent look of the guard of the hareem,
and to remember that he ought to have been the head of a household
of his own, however humble: and in this contrast of what is with what
ought to have been. slavery is seen’to be fully as detestable here as
anywhere else. These two hellish practices, slavery and polygamy,
which, as practices, can clearly never be separated. are here avowedly
connected; and in that connection, are exalted into a double institution,
whose working is such as to make one almost wish that the Nile
would rise to cover the tops of the hills, and sweep away the whole
abomination. Till this happens, there is, in the condition of Egypt, a
fearful warning before the eyes of all men. The Egyptians laugh at the
marriage arrangements of Europe, declaring that virtual polygamy
exists everywhere, and is not improved by hypocritical concealment.

