ruse“ common or mm. 875

remembered, in justice to him, that he is under strong sn'mnlus to pro-
secute them. I am not. as I said before, attempting to estimate the
character of the Pasha, but only to tell the very little I could learn of
the condition of his people: but while his public works, with all their
ostentation. stand in such mournful contrast with the misery of his
people, it would be unjust to him not to mention that‘he has about him
men of various European nations, who endeavor to serve both their
national and individual interests by stimulating him to enterprises in
which they may he wanted, or dieir country may be served. However
shrewd the old man may be on the whole, however he may amuse
himself by receiving ﬁatteries and holding out hopes, and hanging out
caprices, he cannot, in his state of crude civilization, be always clear-
aighted and prudent. He may be easily dazzled by the glory proposed
to him of doing something which shall make France and England won-
der; something which shall make the whole world think him the most
patriotic ruler in it.

At the same time, we see how cautions he can be about mattess
which he really understands. Some people on the spot, as well as
many at a distance, wonder that a man who acted so wisely and well
as the Pasha did about our communication with India, when nothin
better could have been hoped from him than that he would have close
the passage through Egypt, should not yet have made a canal or rail-
way to the Red Sea, as he is incessantly urged to do. Those who so
wonder may be assured that there is more in the matter than has been
presented to them. It is a case which the Pasha happens to under-
stand, and about which he chooses to take his time, and to judge for
himself. He knows all about the shallows at both ends of the proposed
ship canal, and he knows also the precise depth of the interests engaged
in the railway scheme. He has amused himself by seeing locomotives
run on a little railway before his palace: he looked, and laughed, and
stroked his beard, and talked of the devil being in it; and he has some
reason to think that the devil would be in it indeed if he should be in
a hurry to lay down the rails which, as he knows, lie at hand, wanting
to be used. He knows what a devil he would raise among the Be-
doueens if he rashly took from them the carriage of persons and goods
through the Desert. What could he do with these wild tribes, if he
deprived them of their only proﬁtable employment? And how could
he compensate them for the loss of the Desert transport by which they.
now live? If the railway did not interfere with the Bedoueens, being
used only for India passengers and their luggage and the mails, it may
be asked whether it would answer to the Pasha to make a railroad for
this purpose merely, and to receive the proceeds only twice a month.
He may think thst an inland canal, from the Nile to Suez, would an-
swer better, as it would be in use every day for the transport of corn
pnd other produce. He may think that the whole matter, however
important to England, may be so dubious in regard to Egypt as not to-
. hastily proceeded in at the risk of rousing the Bedoueens to harass

country. If he appears to people in London and Paris as dilatory
pnd uncertain about undertaking either of these works as he has been ,

