ms unnarh-umaru. 67

within a great distance. To those who have been wont to watch the
coming forth of the dragon-ﬂy from its sheath on the rush on the mar-
gin of a pool, and ﬂitting about the mountain watercourse, or the moist
meadows at home, it is strange to see them by dozens glittering in the
sunshine of the desert, where there appears to be nothing for them to
alight on ;—nothing that would not shrivel them up, if they rested for
a moment from the wing. The hard dry locust seemed more in its
place, and the innumerable beetles, which everywhere left a net-work
of delicate tracks on the light sand. Distant ﬁgures are striking in the
Desert, in the extreme clearness of light and shade. Shadows strike
upon the sense here as bright lights do elsewhere. It seems to me
that I remember every ﬁgure I ever “saw in the Desert :—every veiled
woman tending her goats” or carrying her water-jar.on her head :—
every man in blue skirting the hillocks; every man in ‘brown guiding
his ass or his camel through the sandy deﬁles of the black rocks, or
on a slope by moonlight, when he casts a long shadow. Every mov-
ing thing has a new value to the eye in such a region.

When we came out upon Mahatta, we were in Nubia, and found
ourselves at once in the midst of the wildness of which we had read
so much in relation to the First Cataract. The Mississippi is wild:
and the Indian grounds of Wisconsin, with their Wigwam camps, are
wild: but their wildness is only that of primitive Nature. This is fan-
tastic,—impish. It is the wildness of Prospero’s island. Prospero’s
island and his company of servitors were never out of my head between
Aswan and the next placid reach of the river above Philre.—-The rocks
are not sublime: they are too like Titanic heaps of black paving-stones
to be imposing otherwise than by their oddity: and they are strewn
about the land and river to an excess and with a caprice which takes
oue’s im 'nation quite out of the ordinary world. Their appearance
is made‘ t e more strange by the cartouches and other hieroglyphic
inscriptions which abound among them; sometimes on a face above
the river; sometimes ou’ a mere ordinary block near the path ;—some-
times on an unapproachable fragment in the middle of the stream.
When we emerged from the Desert upon Mahatta, the scene was some-
what softened by the cultivation behind the village, aud the shade of
the spreading sycamores and clustered palms. Heaps of dates, like
the wheat in our granaries for quantity, lay piled on the shore; and
mounds of packages (chieﬂy dates) ready for export. The river was
all divided into streamlets and ponds by the black islets. Where it
was overshadowed, it was dark gray or deep blue; but where the light
caught it, rushing between a wooded island and the shore, it was of
the clearest green.-—The people were wild,—-especially the boys, who
were naked and excessively noisy : but I did not dislike their behavior;
which was very harmless, though they had to be ﬂogged out of the
path, like a herd of pigs.—We saw two boats, and immediately be-
came eager to secure the one below. [was delighted at this, as we
were thus not deprived of the adventure of ascending the Cataract.

On our return, we sent Ales forward to secure the kandjia; and we
diverged to the quarries, passing through the great cemetery with its

