nmnomnm. 101

tracing the course of ancient philosophy, we meet the priests of Egypt:
and it really appears as if the great men of Greece and other countries
had little to say on the highest and deepest subjects of human inquiry,
till they had ; studied at Memphis, or Sale, or Thebes, or Heli0polis:
Here was the master of Socrates,“ the o ' 'nator of some of his most
important opinions, and the great mover of is mind, studying in Egypt;
and we shall hereafter ﬁnd the great pupil of Socrates, and the inter-
preter of his mind, Plato, dwelling in the same school, for so long a
time, it is thought, as to show in what reverence he held it.

Soon after Anaxagoras came Herodotus. We may be thankful that
among the Greeks who visited Egypt, there was one whose taste was
more for matter-of-fact, than for those high abstract inquiries which are
not popularly included under that name: for the scientiﬁc and philoso-
phical writings of his countrymen are, for the most part, lost, while the
travels of Herodotus remain, as lively and fresh in their interest as ever.
We may mourn that the others are gone; but we must rejoice that
these are preserved. Here, at least, we obtain what we have longed
for in the whole course of our study of the early Egyptian periods;
records of the sayings and doings of the priests, and of the destinies of
the people; pictures of the appearance of the great Valley and of its
inhabitants; and details of their lives, customs, manners, histoq and
opinions. The temptation is strong to present again here, to ﬁll up
and illuminate this sketch of the history of old Egypt, some of the
material of Herodotus: but his backs lie within reach of every hand:
and I will use them no further than is necessary to the illustration of
what I myself observed in my study of the Monuments.

Within a hundred years of Herodotus, came Plato. It may be ques-
tioned whether this visit of Plato to Egypt be not one of the most
important events which have occurred in the history of the human mind.
The ﬁrst thing that strikes us, is how much there must have been to
be learned in Egypt at this time, since Plato, his friend Eudoxus the
astronomer, and Chrysippus the physician, all came—(such men, and
from such a distance!) to study in the schools of Hello olis. It is re-
lated, and was believed in his own age, that Plato live thirteen years
at Heli0polis: and when Strabo was there, 350 years afterwards, he
was shown the house where Plato and Eudoxus lived and studied.—
Plato had met Socrates, it is believed, at the age of nineteen. After
having learned what he could of him, and sustained his death, and been
compelled for political reasons to leave Athens, he had gone to Megara,
and joined the school of Euclid,‘l-—also a pupil of Socrates, and one
well qualiﬁed to cherish what Socrates had sown in the mind of Plato.
Though this school was considered one of doubt and denial, its ulti-
mate doctrine was, that the Supreme Good is always the same, and
unchangeable. Thus trained and set thinking, Plato came to Egypt,
and sat where Moses had sat, at the feet of the priests, gaining, as

' Procltts says thatSocrltes, as well asPlato, learned the doctrine of the Immortality
of the Soul from the Egyptians If so, his great master, Anamgoras, was probably,—
nlmostcertainlyrthe channel through which he received it.

‘f Not the geometristm.

