LEA AND BLANCHARD’S PUBLICATIONS.

BOY’S TREASURY 0F SPO llTS.
THE BUY’B TREASURY OF SPORTS, PlBTlMES AND REBELTIDNE

WITH FOUR HUNDRED ILLUSTRATIONS,
BY SAMUEL WILLIAMS.
is now met.
In one very neat volume. bound in extra crimson cloth: handsomely. printed an!
illustrated with engravings in the ﬁrst style of art. and containing
about six hundred and ﬁfty articles. A present for all seasons.

 

PREFACE.

Thla ﬂlusuated Manual of " Sparta Pastimes. and Recreations." has been with eapaml‘
regard tothellealth. Exercise,nnd ﬁctional Enjoyment ofthe young MwhmI-G

Every variety of commendable Recreation will be found in the following pagea. Pint. vo-
the little Toys of the Nunery; theTopsand Marble- ol'the Play-ground; and theB-lla dths
Pla -ruom. Ola the smoothbelnwr. . th t to ladd th n 'd to _
en. on nveanum ro Pastimes aserve an e rose; hghtupmh

lv‘ully, and make the parlour re-eoho with mirth

L ext. come the Exercising Sparta of the Field. the Green. and the Play-ground; bib-ed h
the noble and truly English‘gnme of Cricket.

Gymnast: are next admitted; then, the delightful recreation of Swimming; and the we
sport 0 ng.

rchery. once the pride of England. is then detailed ; and very properly followed harm
ln the graceful accomplishment of Fencing. and the manly and enlivenirz exercise of Rising.

Angling. the [teatime of childhood. boyhood manhood. and old age, is next described : “d h
attention to the instructions here laid down, the lad with a stick and a string may noon boom an

ex rt er.

weeping Animals in a favourite pursuit of ho hood. Accordingly. we have dencﬁbed how to Is-
the Robert. the ‘ unrrel. the Domiouee. the Guinea Pig. the Pigeon. and the Silkwor'rrn A la:
chapter is adn to the rearing of Song Birds; the several varieties of whlclnnnd‘their ml
ages. are next demribed. And here we may hint. that kindneae to Animals invariably tie-times a
excellent diapueition; for. to or: a little creature one hour. and to treat it harshly the next maria
a GﬁPrl'Clﬂalf not a cruel temper. Humanityis a jewel. whwh' ‘ every boy should be proud to our
tn til we .

We. now ap roach the more eedete amusements—as Draught: and Chen: - two of the nohh:
examines of t e Ingenuity of the human mind. Dominoes and Bagatelle follow. Wlth a know-
ledge of these {our gamers. who would pm a dull hour in the drenrieet day of mole: ; or In
would lit idly by the ﬁre l _ _

Amusements In Arithmetic. harmless letterdemain. or sleight-of-hnnd. and Tricks with Cent.
will delight many a family circle. when the business of the day in over. and the hook is laid anode-

Although the preaent volume is a book of amusements. Scrence has not been excluded from its
pages. And why should it be? when Science is as entertaining as a fairy tale. The change-a an
read of in little nuraery-hoults are not more nmusmg than the changes in Chemistry. W to». El»
trinity. Magnetism. 6.20. By undeiatanding these. you may almost become a little Alumna-

Toy Balloons and Paper Firewmke. (or Firework: without Fire.) come next. Then tuna-v ll-
etructions for Modelling in Curd-Board; no that you may hudd {or yourself a palace or a carriage.
an ,msio nm e or uuree a I e n lﬂl'thf.

d l rt, k f y If I It! ld

Puzzles and Paradoxes. En' as and ii I and Talking with the Hagen. next make _
of exercise for " Guess.” and Guess a in." in] as u have the " Keys" in our own you
may keep your friends in suspense. make yourae no mysterious as the Sp ynx.

A chapter of Miscellnniea—usel'ul and amusing secrete—winds up the volume.

The “ Treanu " contain-I upwards oi four hundred Engrnvfgiﬁa; no that it is not onlyamlledina
of “fleet-eta wort knowing.” but it is a book of mutual. an of print: an a Christmas m
I! o p ulna.

It may he as well to mention that the “1‘reaanry” holds many new games that have never
hetero been printed in a book of this kind. The old games have been destmhed aﬁeala Th- it
a, altogether. a new book.

And now we take leave. wishing you many hunts. and tin and wash of enjoyment we! t“
HUI; and we hopethatyon may beashappyasthis book linlntul oi entree-ant.

l

 

 

