l0]! moo. 147

was in his power. Where his blue shirt had been cut to strips by re-
peated ﬂoggings, he had inserted a large square white patch. He
wore prodigious yellow slippers, and a clean white turban: and he had
dyed his nails wrth henne .

We enjoyed our ride through the Desert to Aswan, and our re-en-
trance there upon the comforts of our spacious dahabieh. We had
visitors to receive, and visits to make, this evening; and on the middle
of the next day (January 14th) we set 06' down the river,—-with our
heads full of Thebes. _

CHAPTER XIII.

KOM UMBOO,—QUARRIES OF SILSILEH.—ADF00.—EILETHYIA.—OLD
EGYPTIAN LIFE.—ISNA.—ARMENT.

Four. days and several temples lay, however, between us and Thebes.
I will hasten over these temples, observin only their distin uishin
characteristics; for I am aware that there is a the difference in the war!
between painfully putting together in the imagination the details of a
written description of such objects, and callin up without effort that
bright and solemn image of these marvelous o d monuments which re-
mains in the minds of those who have visited them. ,

We arrived oﬂ~ K6m Umboo at ten at ni ht of the day we left Aswan:
and early in the mornin we were up at t e temples.

The principal temple ere was rebuilt by the Ptolemies on the site of
an ancient one besring the date of the Pharaohs of an early part of the
Third Period. The only piece of this great antiquity remaining is a
gateway dedicated to Savak, the Lord of Umboo. The larger temple
is dedicated to him and to Aroeris, the brother of Osiris: and there are
two entrances, each with the winged globe on its cornice; and there
were two adyta, side by side. They are buried and lost; but the cor-
nices of their portals are just visible above the sand. This son of Time,
Aroeris, is the god of Light; and his colleague Savak is a local deity of
the Sun, bearing rule over this southern region, but hated by the for-
mer inhabitants of the next region to the north, who waged a savage
war with his worshipers, on account of him ;-in much the same spirit
apparently as the Catholics of our middle ages with the Mohammedans,
or the Puritans of our later age with the Catholics: that is, with the
passion which seems peculiarly to belong to a faith too intense for its
comprehensiveness. No wars are so cruel as were for religion: and
this warfare appears to be the only one in old Egypt in which the
combatants are char d (whether falsely or not) with having eaten their
enemies. The haw and the crocodile are the symbols of Aroeris and
Savak: and they are found in companionship in every part of the sculp-
tures of this temple. The thick grove of columns here has a very im-
posing eﬂ'ect; and the mass of overthrown blocks makes one doubt

