ALEXANDRIA. 21

In this garden, as in every ﬁeld and garden in Egypt, the ground was
divided off into compartments, which are surrounded by little ridges,
in order to retain whatever water they receive. Where there is arti-
ﬁcial irrigation, the water is led along and through these ridges, and
distributed thus to every part. I found here the ﬁrst training of the
eye to that angularity which is the main characteristic of form in
Egypt. It seems to have been a decree of the old gods of Egypt that
angularity should be a prime law of beauty—and the decree appears to
have been undisputed to this day—and one of the most surprising
things to a stranger is to feel himself immediately falling into sympathy
with this taste, so that he ﬁnds in his new sense and ideas of beauty a
ﬁtting avenue to the glories of the temples of the Nile.

The gardens of Alexandria looked rude to our European eyes; but
we saw few so good afterwards. In the damp plots grew herbs, and
especially a kind of mallow, much in use for soups: and cabbages, put
in among African fruits. Among great ﬂowering oleanders, marvel of
Peru, ﬁgs and oranges, were some familiar plants, cherished,I thought,
with peculiar care under the windows of the consular houses ;—month1y
roses, chrysanthemums, love-lies-bleeding, geraniums, rosemary, and,
of course, the African marigold. Many of these plots are overshadowed
by palms,—and they form, in fact, the ground of the palm-orchards, as
we used to call them. Large clusters of dates were hanging from under
the fronds of the palms; and these were usually the most valuable pro-
duct of the garden. The consular gardens are not, of course, the most
oriental in aspect. We do not see in them, as in those belonging to
Arabs, thereservoir for Mohammedan ablution, nor the householder
on the margin winding on his turban after his bath, or prostrating him-
self at his prayers.

The contrast is great between these gardens and the sites of Cleo-
patra’s Needle and Pompey’s Pillar,—curiosities which need not be
described, as every one has seen them in engravings. The needle
stands on the burning sands, close to the new fortiﬁcation wall, whose
embankment is eighty feet high, and now rapidly inclosing the town.
The companion obelisk, which 'was offered to England, but not con-
sidered worth bringing away, is now buried in this embankment.
There it will not decay; for there is no such preservative as the sand
of Egypt. When, and under what circumstances, will it again see the
light? In a time when it may be recognized as an object known now?
or in an age so distant as that the process of veriﬁcation must be gone
over again? Every one now knows that these obelisks are of the time .
of the early Pharaohs, some of whose names they bear inscribed; that
they stood originally at Heliopolis, and were transported to Alexandria
by the Caesars.

The pillar stands in a yet more desolate place. We reached it
through the dreariest of cemeteries, where all was of one dust-color,—
even to the aloe which was ﬁxed upon every grave. The graves were
covered with mortar, much of which was broken and torn away. A
Christian informant told us that this was done by foxes and dogs; but
a Mohammedan declared that such ravage was prevented by careful

