no: anus To earn. 345.

that my camel went very uneasily, and that it was a less evil to walk
when I could. ‘ ~ —

The only way in which I was permitted to walk was a'rather strange
one. I must not wander in- the least: and the slowness of the bag-
gage camels was intolerable, as they grew weaker. So I used to alight
when in the rear of the caravan which came to extend over a space of
from half a mile to a mile. ’1 walked'forward to the ﬁrst bit of shade
I could ﬁnd in advance of the troop, and sat down till all had passed ;
and then walked forward again. This day we had left the“ sand, and
were on hard ground, and amidst the glare and deep shadow of rocks.
At two o’clock, Mount Hor became visible before us : and to the north-
east, a sea of mountains, among which we were to ﬁnd Petra.—Some
of the party began to be much displeased with the Sheikh when he
stopped as before three o’clock, instead of bringing us near to- Petra.
His excuse was that we were entering among the mountains, and that
he could not ﬁnd a place for our encampment further on. He had now
failed of his promise about distances everyday: and it was clear that
for some purpose he was protracting our journey. ,

Thus far, we had seen no living creature since leaving Akaba. This,
which appeared wonderful. when we expressly reminded one another
of it, seemed natural enough at the time. Before our Desert travel was
done, we found how much more striking and impressive it is to en-
counter men in the Desert, than to pass many days without seeing one.

We had not yet been distressed for want of water; though some of
the party now began to look ruefully at what was offered us to drink.
It was certainly rather reddish: in color, and a good deal too warm,
though Abasis kindly took care to hang the skin which was next to
come into use on 'the shady side of his camel.

0n the morning of Friday, March 19th, we were six hours from
Petra: and now the least sanguine of our party began to believe that
we really should stand within that wonderful place. I was still pos-
sessed with the idea I always had of Petra ;—the image I had formed
from reading Laborde and others; that Wadee Mousa was a ravine,—
a long and narrow ravine, which was ﬂanked and surmounted by ex-
cavated rocks, and to which there was only the entrance. When, at
night,I looked. back upon my morning notion of Petra, it was like
looking back from middle age to one’s teens.

We were under weigh .«by six o’clock, and were presently among
passes of wild fantastic mountains. In a glen, we came upon some
oleanders, springing vigorously, and some wild ﬂowers. The ground
was damp in patches, and there was dew upon the weeds. Never be-
fore did dewdrops look so bright to us. The rocks here were in tower-
ing masses, appearing distinct from each other, and most fantastic in
their colors and surfaces. I should not have believed that any purely
natural tinting could have been too bright for the eye of the lover of na-
ture; but here, the coloring of the rocks is distressingly gaudy. The
veining of the surface is singular. Every one cried out “ Mahogany!”
and the veining is like that of mahogany: but the colors of this veining
are like nothing to be seen anywhere else :—scarlet, maroon, sky-blue,

