34 names mm

dead horse or other carcass. The crested wood-pecker was often a
pretty object among the mournful piles of ruins at Thebes or else-
where, hopping about so spruce and gay! Where the Arabian hills
approached the river, or the shores presented perpendicular rocks,
long rows of cormorants sat perched before their holes, as still and
staid as so many bermits in contemplation. On every islet and jutting
point were ﬂocks of pelicans, whose plumage looked snow-white when
set off by a foil of black geese; and now and then, a single bird of this
tribe might be seen in the early morning, balancing itself on the little
billows, and turning its head about in the coyest manner, to prevent its
long beak touching the water. The ibis is elegant in form, and most
delicate in plumage, as every one knows who has stroked its snowy
feathers. Itlooked best when standing under the banks, or wading
among-the reeds in a cove. It looked most strange and out of place
when perched on the back of a buffalo, as I occasionally saw it. We
once saw ﬁve buﬂ'alo .in one ﬁeld, with each a delicate white ibis
perched on its back. And from the nose of one of these buﬂ‘alo two

little birds were at the same time picking insects, or something else that " l'

they relished. . .

As to the birds which have such a mysterious connection with the
sleeping crocodile, I can give no new information about them. I can
only .say that on almost every occasion of our seeing a crocodile, two
or three of these birds were standing beside him; and that I never saw
them ﬂy away till he had moved. It is believed in the country that
these birds relieve the crocodile of the little leeches which infest his
throat. and that they keep watch while he sleeps on the sand and give
him warning to escape on the approach of danger. What the crocodile
does for the birds in return, we never heard. As for the pigeons, they
abound beyond the conception of any traveler who has not seen the
pigeon ﬂights of the United States. They do not here, as there, dark-
en the air in an occasional process of migration, breaking down young
trees on which they alight, and lying in heaps under the attack of a
party of sportsmen, but they ﬂourish everywhere as the most proliﬁc
of birds may do under the especial protection of man. The best idea
that a stranger can form of their multitude is by supposing such a bird
population as that of the doves of Venice inhabiting the whole land of
Egypt! The houses of the villages throughout Egypt are surmounted
by a sort of battlements built for the pigeons, and supplied with fringes
of boughs, inserted, in several rows to each house, for the birds to rest
on. The chief object is the dung, which is required for manure for
the garden, and for ,other purposes; but it is a mistake to say that the
inhabitants do not eat them. They .are taken for food, but not to such
an extent as to interfere with the necessary supply of dung. One of
our party occasionally shot a few wild ones, near the villages, and he
met with no hinderance. But.it..was otherwise with our Scotch friend.
Though he had asked leave, and believed he had obtained it, to let ﬂy
upon the pigeons in a village, the inhabitants rose upon him, and his
Rais had some diﬂiculty in securing his safe return to his boat. He
did it by a device which his employer was shocked to hear of after-

