168 nuns Lure.

its duties, its spiritual powers and privileges. As I said before, the
most striking thing at Thebes is the evidence on every hand of the im-
portance to the old Egyptian mind of the state of the dead: and these
evidences will be regarded by the philosopher with the solemn reverence
which the wise cannot but feel towards every form in which Faith, the
noblest of human faculties, manifests itself. The literal truth of the
objects of faith, when those objects are the highest that can be conceived,
is small matter; the exercise of the faculty is everything: and though
the imagery of the Egyptian tombs is to us only imagery, while to their
inmates it was anticipated fact, we may, in our sympathy with their
mood of faith, enter those tombs with an awe perhaps as strong as
theirs.

When the Pharaohs built their palaces and temples, they had more
aims than one to fulﬁl. They blazoned their own deeds upon them;
but they gloriﬁed the deeds of their fathers, even more carefully than
their own: and they must have had in view the sympathy and ediﬁ-
cation of other men, living and to live. But their careful choice and
elaborate preparation of their tombs, with every possible resort in the
adornment of them, show us that the unseen state was the most inte-
resting subject, and that of the ﬁrmest faith to them. The Pharaohs _
were wont to devote the early years of their reigns to royal deeds of
rule and conquest: and they did not begin to build their palaces and
temples till they had achieved deeds with which to glorify them, and
brought home captives to do the work of building them. But it was quite
otherwise with their tombs. Every man who could afford himself a tomb,
began its preparation early in life. A palace or temple could be carried
on to completion by a successor; but a tomb was scaled up when the
owner was laid in it. ~ It could not, therefore, under the uncertainty of
life, be too soon begun; and their practice seems to show that it could
not be too long elaborated. Few or none appear to be ﬁnished in every
part; and some were in progress through a long course of years.

The most prominent idea presented to us in these tombs is that their
makers considered them to be really and truly an abode ;—literally “ a
long home ;" or, as they called them, “ everlasting habitations;” and
to be prepared and provided accordingly.—The way to the long home
of the Theban kings is very appmpriate and most impressive; a suc-
cession of winding deﬁles between grand but most desolate rocks, the
recesses of which might seem to invite the candidate for death to come
and rest here in the depth of silence, till his thousands of years of sus-
pense should be fulﬁlled :—to rest in silence, but ‘not in solitude: not
in the solitude of the wide desert, but in the still congregation of this
deep valley.

To the old Egyptians, as to all who are heedless of the unborn
human race in interest for those who have lived, the true congregation
of the human race must always have been looked for beyond the
grave—so immeasurably must the dead ever outnumber existing men.
Every man must have felt himself one of a very small company in com-
parison with that which he was to join. But the case of the kings
was strong indeed. Each one of them lived solitary; and it was only

 

