'rnn NILE. 37

snatch up an oar for a telescope, and see marvellous things in the plain.
If, in the heat, either of the gentlemen nodded over his book,’ half the
crew would go to sleep instantly, peeping every moment to see the
effect—Then, there were the veiled women coming down to the river
to ﬁll their water-pots. Or the men, at prayer-time, performing their
ablutions and prostrations. And there was the pretty sight of the pre-
paration of the drying banks for the new crop ;—the hoeing with the
short, heavy antique hoe. And the harrow, drawn by a camel, would
appear on the ridge of the bank. And the working of. the Shadoofs'
was perpetual, and altvays interesting. Those who know what the
shadoof is like, may conceive the pictureof its working :-the almost
naked Arabs,-—usually in pairs,—lowering and raising their skin
buckets by the long lever overhead, and emptying them into the trough
beside them, with an observance of time as regular as in their sing-
ing. Where the bank is high, there is another pair of shadoofs at
work above and behind : and sometimes a third, before the water can
be sent ﬂowing in its little channels through the ﬁelds.—Then, there
were the endless manoeuvres of innumerable birds, about the islets
and rocks: and a buffalo, here and there, swimming from bank to
bank, and ﬁnding it, at last, no easy matter to gain the land—Then,
there was the ferryboat, with its ragged sail, and its motley freight of
turbaned men, veiled women, naked children, brown sheep, frightened
asses, and imperturbable buﬁ'alo.—Then, there were the long palisades
of sugar-canes edging the banks; or the steep slopes, all soft and
bright with the springing wheat or the bristling lupins. Then, there
were the villages, with their somewhat pyramidal houses, their clouds
of pigeons, and their shelter of palms: or, here and there, a town, with
its minarets rising out of its cincture of acacia. And it was not long
before we found our sight sharpened to discern holes in the rocks, far
or nearz—holes so squared at the entrance as to hint of sculpture or
painting within.—And then, as the evening drew on, there was the
sinking of the sun, and the comin out of the colors which had been
discharged by the glare in the mid Ie of the day. The vast and dreary
and hazy Arabian desert became yellow, melting into the purple hills;
the muddy waters took a lilac hue; and the shadows of the sharp-cut
banks were as blue as the central sky. As for the moon, we could,
for the ﬁrst time in our lives, see her the ﬁrst night ;—the slenderest
thread of light, of cup-like form, visible for a few minutes after sun-
set; the old moon being so clearly marked as to be seen by itself after
the radiant rim was gone. I have seen it behind a palm, or resting on
the ridge of a mountain like a copper ball. And when the fuller moon
came up from the east, and I, forgetting the clearness of the sky, have
been struck by the sudden dimness, and have looked up to watch her
passing behind a cloud, it was delicious to see, instead of any cloud.
the fronds of a palm waving upon her disk. One night. I saw an ap-
pearance perfectly new to me. No object was perceptible on the high
black eastern bank, above and behind which hung the moon: but in

’ Pokendbdgforraisinguter.

