IOSQUE or mun. 407

his spectacles and vast heard, that I longed to carry away a sketch of
him. The women of the household had'very fair complexions and
blue eyes. As for the apartment, the ﬂoor was rickety; and so were
the two bedsteads. The table-cloth, strewed with the crumbs of the
late meal, was absolutely ﬁlthy; while there was a great quantity of
plate, massive and old-fashioned, on a- sideboard ; the cushions of the
deewin were of rich brocade; and some prints of. eminent living Jews
hung round the walls. The dress of the Jewish women is deforming
to the ﬁgure, but very becoming to the head. The turbans of the men,
chieﬂy blue or white, are substantial and lofty,lilte the priests’ helmets
which we see in old pictures. It was always a treat to walk through
the Jew quarter, and especially on the Sabbath, when numbers were
abroad in their best costume, sitting at their doors, or passing to or
from the synagogue through the quiet streets. They are a very hand-
some race, with eyes which seem to distinguish them from the rest of
mankind—large, soft, and of the deepest expression. ' 7

We went forth to-day by the Via Dolorosa, which was so quiet that
thehorse’s feet of a passing rider sounded as they might in the Sik at
Petra.‘ We turned into an arcade to the right, in order to get as near
as inﬁdels may to the Mosque of Omar. No Jew or Christian can
pass the threshold of the outermost courts without certain and imme-
diate death by stoning or beating. It requires some little resolution,
for those who dislike being hated, to approach this threshold, so
abominable are the insults offered to strangers. A boy began imme-
diately to spit at us. We presently obtained a better view of this
usurping temple from the city wall which we climbed for the purpose.
From hence, the inclosure was spread out beneath us, as in‘a map, and
we could perceive the prOportio-n it bore to the rest of the city, and
observe how much lower Mount Moriah was than Zion. The Mosque
was very beautiful, with its vast dome, and its walls of variegated mar-
bles, and its noble marble platform, with its ﬂights of steps and light
arcades; and the green lawn which sloped away all round, and the
cypress trees, under which a row of worshipers were at their prayers.
It was the Mohammedan Sabbath; and troops of children were at
play on the grass; and parties of women in white—Mohammedan
nuns—were sitting near them; and the whole scene was proud and
joyous. But, with all this before my eyes, my mind was with the
past. It seemed as if the past were more truly before me than whatI
saw. Here was the ground chosen by David, and leveled by Solomon
to receive the Temple of Jehovah. Here it was that the great king
lavished his wealth; and hither came the Sun-worshipers from the
East to lay hands on the treasure, and level the walls, and carry the
people away captive. Here was it restored under Ezra, and fortiﬁed
round when the people worked at the walls with arms in their girdles
and by their sides: and here, when all had bee'n again laid waste, did
Herod raise the structure which was so glorious that the Jews were as
proud as the Mohammedans now before my eyes, and mocked at the
saying that it should ever be overthrown. I seemed to see it now as
it was then, with its glittering roof, whose plates of gold were too daz-

: i111? ' -"_.-_n

