170 lunar; ms.

pair of colossal sentinels, as if to proclaim “ here lives a king, or the
glory of a king !” Far over yonder, in the avenue between El-Karnac
and El-Uksur, I see some movement ;—surely it is the ﬂoating of pen-
nons, and the carrying of standards. If it crosses the river, I may see
what it means. Meantime, how gay is the blue winding Nile, with
its heavy, slow-moving boats,—the gay checkered sails up, and the
row of long oars glancing in the sun! How pretty are those villas
scattered about the edge of the desert, each with its plot of garden or
ﬁeld sloping down into the fertile region of the plain; each with its
can0py of shady palms; and every palm swaying in the same light
breeze which ﬁlls the sails on the river, and ﬂoats the pennons of that
multitude in the avenues of El-Karnac! Here is a multitude below
me too. The women are exchanging their goods in the areas of the
streets,—bargaining slowly, it seems, because, having no coin, they
have to settle the worth of their valuables before they can agree on that
of their produce. And those men,—.-how they are toiling about that
sledge,—advancing it by hair’s-breadths under its load of granite;
a mass as large as any merchant’s house in the city! What a team of
harnessed men, straining at the load! By their light complexions, they
are Asiatic captives. They are helping to build yonder palace, on
whose walls their captivity is to be comm‘emorated.—The wind
strengthens, and brings up some sounds which tell what a multitude
is stirring below. Through the hum and buzz there comes the shock
of the mallet falling on the wedge in the quarry, and the lowing of the
cattle on the farm at the edge of the plain below. And was not that
a breath of music? Yes: the blast of a distant trumpet, and some
shrill pipe tones. Ah! it is from that concourse over the water.
How the multitude comes sweeping down to the river’s brink ! Surely
that crowd of boats is going to bring themover. Yes; there is the
funereal boat for the transport of the dead; and those others are making
a bridge for the passage of the living. What a train they will be,
winding through the deﬁles of that death region on my left hand!
How still it is at this moment! Nothing there but the shadows
thrown into the hollows! No sound but of the ﬂapping of the wings
of yonder eagle; for the wild dog is quiet till night. What a contrast
is that parched, silent, desolate valley to this gay and stirring plain;
and how complete, to those on either side, is the barrier of these rocky
hills which I, from my perch, can overlook! To-day, as yonder funeral
train winds through it, the echoes of the valley of death will he awakened,
and they will answer to notes of wailing, or shouts of boasting; and
its hot mounds will be alive with shadows: but to-morrow, the two
regions which are separated but by a partition of rock, will be once
more opposed as activity to oblivion, and Life to Death.

As it appeared to me from that pinnacle, it appeared daily when I
rode through the Deﬁles of the Valley of the Tombs of the Kings. I
felt that there was never a nobler seat for a metropolis of the living
than the plain of Thebes, and never a nobler approach than by these
ravines from the city of the living to the kingdom of the dead.

Every Egyptian king was, as I have said, a priest. He might be

‘0
“O

