macs. - m

cruel civil wars whichtook place as soon as they obtained arms; that
is, under the Judges,.presontly after. Meantime, here they were, part-
mitted by the Phrlistines to pasture their ﬂocks, and burning the while,
mething of the arts of war and of civil life from the neighbors whom
they hated and despised as unclean, because uncircumcised :-theronly
uncircumcised people within their knowledge. .

Then, again, some notations later, after the barbarian wars of the
times of the Judges, uring‘which the institutions of Moses appear to
have been completely lost sight of, and the worship of Jehovah to have
been only one item in a wide idolatry—during which, in the historical
hnguage,"‘overy man did that which was right in his own eyes;”-—-
immediately alter that dark time, three women passed. this way,—un-
loss Orpah had already turned back to yonder'mountains, where her
old home lay. Here at least passed old Naomi and Ruth ; and greatly
astonished would Ruth have been to be told that she "was to be the
great-grandmother of a kin who should be' crowned in the city than be-
ore her eyes; a-king whos ould so singas that the human race should
echo his strains through all future time; and who should take the strong
rock-fort of Johns, some way to the north, and make of it a city so hails,
as that its very name should be music for ever. Little did the gen
Ruth think of these things when she. and Naomi passed this way.

Whether the greatest man, after Moses, in all Israel, Samuel, was
over here, I believe we are not told; but, as he lived in Ramah, and
journeyed much, it is probable that he was. He too. like Moses, was
disappointed in his wisest wishes for this people; and he, like Moses,
appears to have overrated their moral capacities. The people would
have a king, and a very bad one. Here theirsecond king was crowned,
not as sovereign of Israel, but, as yet, of Judah only. Here the limited
dignity was given, and here David lived for seven years and a half be-
fore he took the oath which made him king of all Israel. Hebron would
not longer serve for his residence, as it was necessary‘for him to live
where he could communicate easily with other parts of his dominion,
and especiall where he could command the valley of the Jordan; he,
therefore, too the rock-fort of Johns, and ﬁxed his abode upon Zion,
whose praises he thenceforth celebrated as never city was celebrated
by mortal man. Six of David’s sons were born in Hebron. Of these,
Solomon was not one, he being the son of Bathsheba whom, as we all
know, David took to wife at Jerusalem; but two of the six were Abso-
lom, who here declared his rebellion, and Adonijah, who assumed the
government while David lay dying. in order to exclude Solomon, the
favored son of Bathsheba. From the time of David’s removal to Jeru-
salem, we hear little more of Hebron, except as one in the list of fortiﬁed
cities. ' Once upon a time, however, the Idummans came up from Petra,
and took it; and it was theirs till Judas Maccabmus drove them out.
If this was the city “ in the hill country in Judea,” where the Baptist
was born and reared, this is a strong interest connected with the place,
and the latest, except for those who like to follow the career of the
Crusaders.

I little thought ever to have felt any touch of the crusading spirit;

