mm". 938

ramids, and the solidity which has been given them are well worthy
of admiration. It is to their form that they owe the advantage of hav-
ing resisted the hostility of centuries: or rather, it seems as if it were
Time which has resisted the opposition of these eternal ediﬁces. In-
deed, when we meditate deeply on the construction of the Pyramids,
we are compelled to acknowledge that men of the greatest genius have
here employed in combination their best powers; and that the subtlest
minds have exhausted their deepest resources; that the most enlightened
souls have exercised in profusion all the abilities that they possessed
which could be. applied to these constructions; and that the wisest
theory of geometry as employed all its means to produce these wonders,
as the last point of astonishment which it was possible to reach. Thus
we‘may say that these ediﬁces speak to us now of those who reared
them, teach us their history, 0 n to us in an intelligible manner the
progress which they had ma 6 in the sciences, and the excellence
of their abilities :—in a word, they put us in possession of the life and
actions of the men of those days.“ After telling how the Pyramids
are placed with a regard to the points of the compass, and how this;
breaks the force of the wind, and what the gross measurements are, he
goes on :--“ Their pyramidal ﬁgure is truncated; and the. summit
offers thereby a level of ten cubits every way. Here is a thing which
I myself observed. When I visited them, there was in our party an»
archer, who let ii an arrow in the direction of the perpendicular height
of one of these yramids, and in that of its thickness (its base): and
the arrow fella little short of midway.l We learned that in the neigh-
boring village there were people accustomed to mount the pyramid,
who did it without any diﬁculty. We sent for one of these men; and
for a triﬂe which we gave him, he set off up the pyramid, aswe should
to mount a staircase, and even quicker, without putting of either his
shoes. or his garments, which were very ample. I had desired him to
measure, with his turban, the” area at the top, when he gotthere. When
he came down, we took the measure of his turban, as it answered to
that of the area at the summit. We found it to be eleven cubits, by
the measure of the original cubit.”—It does not seem to have occurred
to the ve. physician to go up himself. It is a pity that he could not
know t at ladies would accomplish the feat, seven centuries after him.
If. he had looked abroad from the summit, what would he have done for

words toexpress his raptures ! He goes on to show how much less he
dared than we :—_. » .

“ One of these two pyramids is open, and alien an entrance by which
the interior may be visited. This 0 ening leads to narrow passages. to
conduits which go down to a great epth, and to wells and prect ices,
as we are assured by such persons as have courage to explore t em:
for there are many people who are tempted by a foolish avarice and

chimerical hopes into the interior of this ediﬁce. They plunge into

' Relation de l'Egypte, Livre I. ch. 4. -

1' It is well known that the ground covered by the Great Pyramid is equal to the
area of Lincoln’s Inn Fields, and 50 feet over, every way ;—say, Lincoln Inn Fields
and the row of surrounding houses.

