naaaaw FAITH AT THE stars or cnnm. 399

tically brethren, under the Paternity of ‘God: a most memorable
advance upon the morality of the then existing world. They refused
to call any man Master upon earth, denouncing slavery, and discounte-
nancing every kind of servitude. They ordered obedience to the civil
power, but no participation in it. All political action was discounte-
nanced; and absolute non-resistance, giving the cheek to the smiter
rather than raising the hand, was inculcated. With this went unli-
mited forgiveness of injuries. They might have had for their m’otto
that glorious text of the Kurin, “ To endure and to pardon is the wis-
dom of life.” They taught that the best temper for man consisted in
three affections: Love of God; love of the Truth, and love of Man:
and that the best employments of man corresponded to these: viz.,
contemplation, and healing the bodies and souls of men. Hence the
name of Therapeutaa, which they bore in Egypt. They called them-
selves, and were called by others, Physicians of bodies and souls.
While abstaining from marriage themselves, as a matter of eXpediency,
they Opened their arms to children, out of love to them for their purity,
as well as compassion for their helplessness. They might have in-
scribed over their doors the words, “ Suffer the little children to come
unto us, and forbid them not: for of such is the kingdom of heaven :”
and the children did go to them, and were taken in and cherished, as
were the hungry and the naked, and the sick and miserable. They
reprobated oaths, and practised the utmost plainness of speech, think-
ing that all exaggerations of their Yea and Nay came of evil.-—Another
primary point with them was strictness of truth :-—their Yea was yea,
and their Nay nay.‘

In estimating the religious elements of Jewish life before the time of
Christ, it is impossible not to be struck with the coincidences between
the life and doctrine of the Essence and the life and doctrine of Jesus:
and further, when we read his rebukes of the other two sects, and ob-
serve that he nowhere denounces any practice of the Essence, while
incessantly preaching their views of truth, and inculcating their mo-
rality, it is clear that they enjoyed his favor. In the opinion of learned
mend there is much evidence to show that the Baptist was an Essene
of the anchorite order, “ being in the deserts till the time of his show-
ing unto Israel.”:|; There were two orders in the body of the Essence;
the contemplative and the, practical. The contemplative were the Jew-
ish anchorites in Egypt, who retired to caves and fastnesses while
Cambyses ravaged the valley of the Nile; and who afterwards were
the models of the Christian hermits who were sprinkled among the
desert rocks of Egypt. Of this order it is that John was supposed to
be, with his desert dress and food.—The other order lived, as has been
said, in community, employed in works of charity as well as in con-
templation. The Essenes of Palestine are declared by Josephus to
have been of this second order; and their chief establishment was on
the western shore of the Dead Sea :—that is, in the neighborhood of

’ Pbilo, De Vita Contemplativa. Josephus, Antiq , Book XVIII. ch. 2.
‘I‘ See Taylor in Calmet, “Dictionary to the Bible.” I Luke I. 80.

