cannon or m non snmonns. 431

from each other. Those who, looking at the city from the Mount of
Olives, can. believe this ever to have been the site of Calvary, or of the
tomb in the adjacent garden, may believe in this circular scene of sa-
cred events. In the absence of all knowledge where Golgdtha was, it
would require something better than any existing 1evidence to rave
that, as it was certainly outside the city, it could have been on the ower
slope of Acts, close by the ravine between Acra and Moriah, which
was ﬁlled up by the Asmonean princes; a spot almost in the centre of
the city, as it was both before and after the time of Christ.—-.As for the
Calvary, the sockets of the three crosses are shown so close together,
that there could have been no room for them to stand, except one be-
hind another. The rending of the rocks must of course be displayed
on the same spot ;—a«ﬁssure cased with marble. And, as the apostle
Paul says, that “as in Adam all die, so in Christ shall all be made
alive,” the head of Adam was found in this ﬁssure beside the cross.
The pillar of scourging is brou ht here, and shown through an aperture.
The monks admit that this pil ar has been shifted, with the same ho-
nesty with which their predecessors admitted to Dr. Richardson that
the stone which assumes to have once closed the mouth of the sepulchre
is a substitute for the real one; the Armenians having stolen the latter,
to exhibit at thetr'convent on Mount Zion.

I have before mentioned that neither Jew nor Mohammedan could
enter this building with safety to lite—except on the set festival occa-
sions when Turkish guards are wanted, and the Governor at Jerusalem
has to keep the Latin and Greek Christians from tearing one another’s
throats. No one will wonder that the Jews do not desire to enter this
idolatrous temple: but it is remarkable that the Mohammedans do not,
so devoutl‘y as they usually pay homa e to the sacred places of the
prOphets, rom Abraham to Christ. he reason in this instance is
curious. They do not believe in the sepulchre, because they do not
believe in the death of Jesus. They hold that he ascended alive into
heaven, leaving the likeness of his face to Judas, who was executed.
They think it probable that the body of the cruciﬁed Judas may have
been laid here: so they would carefully keep away, even if the had
the freest libert to enter; and they ridicule the mistake of the bris- .
tians who payt eir homage at the shrine of the traitor. How like '
the disputes of Fetish worshipers all this is! and how wholly alien
fron:i all our conceptions of that devotion which Jesus taught and prac-
tice !

The circle of sacred places has to be made out by some bold stretch-
ing, of course: so we were shown the stocks in which the feet of Jesus
were put. When we reached the place where the soldier who struck
Jesus came to repent, we all laughed,——the device was so exquisitely
innocent! Yet even these things are not too much for some people,
educated in England, who vie with these monks themselves in super-
stition. A lady stood in solemn attitude, with folded arms and bowed
head, while we examined the Calvary. When we moved on, she
threw back her veil, and we recognized in her an English lady, now a
Russian Countess, whom we met daily at the table d’hate at Cairo.

