surname ma mm. 199

taken. The ponds I saw—this day in considerable number, seven
miles from the river—are ﬁlled by ﬁltration from the Nile. Linant Bey
says that the water of the Nile ﬁlters through to any distance where
water is found in the valley. From another authorityl learned that it
penetrates to the Oasis. The ponds I saw to-day were of various
depths, shapes and sizes. Some few had clear water in them—the
shallower had a mere daub of mud at the.bottom, while the sides were
green with young wheat—and the deepest were half ﬁlled with a green
puddle. A large number of men were emplo ed in cleaning out the
canal, and some of our party saw others emp oyed upon a new one.
The ﬁrst thought of many, in reading about this ﬁltration of Nile water,
will be of the passage in Herodotus about the actual burial place of the
king in the Great Pyramid. Speaking of the Second Pyramid, Hero-
dotus says,‘ “It does not approach the magnitude of that of Cheops (I
have measured them both); it has neither subterranean structures nor
canal to convey the waters of the Nile; whereas the other, where it is
saidthe tomb of Cheops is placed, is in an island, and is surrounded by
the waters of the Nile, which are conducted there by a canal constructed
for the purpose.” This version, which I translate from Larcher, inti-
mates that the pyramid itself stood in an island, and wassurrounded by
a canal. But another version of the passage gives a different impres-
sion. Sir G. Wilkinson offers the passage thus: “ It has neither under-
ground chambers nor any canal ﬂowing into it from the Nile, like the
other, where the tomb 0 its founder is placed in an island surrounded
by water.” In another passage, Herodotus tells us (II. 124) that Che-
ops made “ the subterranean structures to serve him for a tomb, in an
island formed by the waters‘of the Nile, which he introduced into it by
a canal.” There are some who, ﬁnding more and more “ subterranean
structures” the lower they go in the Great Pyramid, and of a very dif-
ferent kind of building from mere foundation—that is, passe es leading
down and down again, so as to indicate some object lying eeper stil ,
cannot but wonder whether there may not be a royal tomb at the bot-
tom, with a moat of Nile water around it. What a discovery it would
be! It must be observed, however, as Larcher points out, that Here-
dotus does not declare the king to be actually in the pyramid, but only
his destined tomb; while Diodorus relates that the kings who buit
these pyramids were so odious to their subjects that neither of them
was actually buried there. The people threatened to snatch the corpses
from their graves, and tear them to pieces; so that the monarchs de-
sired their families to inter them secretly in some unknown place?
We should like to know, some day, whether the penetrating Nile has
been searching out, for all these thousands of years, the secrets of that
great prison-house which has permitted access to no other visitor.

One of the most curious si hts occurring in the course of an Egyp-
tian country ride, like this 0 ours to-day, is of the little victories of
the Nile over the Desert, in the outskirts of their battle-ﬁeld. It is
worth riding ten miles inland, if it were for nothing else, to see what

‘ Herod. II. 127. 1' Larcher‘s note to Herodotus, II. 127.

