348 " haunts me.

overlook the preparations for our abode of some days in this place
which I had never hoped to reach. I did not laugh now when Mr. Y
said to me, “ Well, how do you like being at Petra l”

 

CHAPTER VIII.
PETRA.

WE lost no time in beginning our researches. We were to be here
at least three days; but we were as impatient to look about us as if we
must merely pass through, as poor Burckhardt did. The ﬁrst thing I
did was to ascertain the direction of the stream, harder to understand
Laborde’s plan: for he gives no compass points. Having done this,
and examined our platform and what I could see from it, I was pre-
sently clear as to the following particulars.

The site of Petra is not a ravine, as we had been wont to suppose;
but a considerable basin, completely closed in by rocks; sufﬁciently
ventilated, however, by the chasms and deﬁles left in the precipices.
The area is of undulating ground, there being scarcely a level spot any-
where, beyond our platform. A

The stream, dry except in winter, must have been a considerable
‘ river in former times—for depth, though not for width. At present, it
is either a ﬁtful brook, ﬂowing shallow over white sand, and among
bushes and weeds; or it is a rushing torrent, which presently spends
its force, and leaves the channel dry. As [said before, the channel was
dry when we were there. In old times, its depth was considerable, as is
shown by the remains of the embankments, and piers of the bridges: and
there can belittle doubt of its constant ﬂow in those times. At present,
the stream is diverted, some way above, to irrigate a fertile district,
leaving the torrent dependent on the rains on the nearer mountain.

It seemed clear to me that the whole of the rising ground, on each
bank of the river, as high on our side as the single standing pillar, was
,formerly terraced. I believe I traced ﬁve terraces on our side; and
there may have been a good many more. Some large building, with a
colonnade towards the river, stood on our platform. The bases of many
columns are visible; and others lie shattered, with their fragments dis-
posed in the order in which they fell. The quantity of building stones
lying heaped on both banks is greater than can be described or esti-
mated. ‘

The only remaining ediﬁce in Petra is that called Pharaoh’s Palace;
—a rather vulgar building, Roman in its style, and adorned with stucco
garlands. It is cracked and monldering, and will not last long. It was
very near our platform. We may consider as belonging to it a Tri-
umphal Arch standing between it and our tents. These are all in the
way of buildings. But it was immediately clear to me that little is re-
maining also of the rock-abodes, in comparison with what once existed.
I think that travelers have not only much underrated the number of

