row or an: raornnrs. 438

ages since, been swept away by torrents which have themselves dis.
appeared, having brought down earth which now yields food to man.
The worm is dead and the ﬁre is quenched; and there remain only the
empty sepulchres, yawning in the red rock, and the desolate Aceldama
on the hill. The soil washed down by the winter rains is detained by
terracing, and made to yield thin crops of wheat and barley, and to sup-
ports few scattered olive trees. Further down, at the conﬂuence of
the old torrent and Kedron, the soil is deeper, and rich enough to en-
coura e a full cultivation. There, thickets of pomegranate and orange
refresg the-eye, and lead one to look round for the pools from which
they are watered.

The ﬁrst we meet is the Well of Job, as it is now called; though it
need not be explained that here is no more reason for supposing the
ancient Arab Job to have been there than at any place in Europe.
The Franks call it the Well of Nehemiah, which is more reasonable.
This well was sounded by Pococlre, and found to be 122 feet deep; yet
it sometimes overﬂows. What a treasure this must always have been
to the city, and what an object ,to its besiegers, is clear.~ Turning up
to the left, towards the Valley of Jehoshaphat, we came next to the
Pool of Siloam, whose waters run off to fertilize the gardens at the
junction of the valleys. This pool is fed from a spring above, by a
channel in the rock. Its form is that of an oblong square, and it has
the beauty which belongs to all ancient buildings here,—-the crumbling
stone, and tufts and garlands of weeds. The pool, which is usually
called the Fountain of Siloam, further on, is more bmutiful, from its
waters lying in the deep shadow of the rock. We went down into a
cave, and by a descent of broad wet steps, cut in the rock, to the dim
pool, where an Arab woman was washing clothes,-—her picturesque
ﬁgure adding not a little to the beauty of the scene. This water was
not used for drinking in former times, nor is it now. It was used, in
the time of the Temple, for ablation by the priests, before ﬂowing down
in the rock to this cave; and it has been since so traditionally employed
as we saw it to-day, that both Monks and Mohammedaus say it was
there that the Virgin washed her son’s linen. It was at the pool, and
not this spring, that the blind man was supposed to have washed : and
the spring must have been held pure in the days when the riest came
down from the Water-gate above, with his golden ewer, to etch water
for the Temple service. ‘

Then we crossed the bed of Kedron, and began to ascend the slope
of Olivet, under the excavated tombs. After mountin the steep ascent
by a zi ag path for some way, we were led intoa balﬁey-ﬁeld, through
the mi st of the corn, towards a group of olive trees, among whose roots
was an entrance into a cave, where we should least have looked for
one. Lighted candles were put into our hands, and we went in to ex-
plore. It appeared to us an extraordinary place, and we wondered
that we heard no more of it. We had heard of the Tombs of the Kings,
and the Tombs of the Judges, but not of these Tombs of the Prophets.
We well knew that this old valley had been watered with the blood of
the prephets, as too often with the tears of true-hearted Hebrews; we

28

