316 smart mu.

however, gravely assured me that it was ‘ the cow’s’ head itself.”—I do
not know what to make of this, unless we suppose Burckhardt’s guide
to have shown him a different stone from the one pointed out to us,
which was hollow ;-—the hollow being something of the form of a cow’s
head, and being certainly represented to us as the mould in which the
head of the calf was caste—As to its being called “ the cow” by the
monks and Arabs, it does not much matter. The Hebrews had seen as
much of the cow of Athor as of the bull Apis in Egypt; and tradition
might nearly as well assign the one object as the other. The Old Tes-
tament, however, declares it to have been a young bull; and when Aaron
presented it to the people as the god that brought them out of Egypt,
e was more likel to have had the 0d than the goddess in his mind.

We next passed the ﬁne garden ﬁelonging to the convent which I
mentioned as being on our right when we ﬁrst arrived. We did not
enter it, but enjoyed in passing the sight of its blossoming fruit-trees.
From this time, we saw many inscriptions on the rocks, as we passed
up through .the narrow wadee called El Ledja. The character is of the
same unreadable kind as in Wadee Mokatteb and at Mount Serbal,and
gloves that scribes of the class that went there had been here also.

hat their object was,——whether the mountain, or, as many have sup-
posed, merely the rock which Moses struck for water, no one can con-
ﬁdently say. To me it seems improbable that so many should come
for the sake of Rephidim merely, in so very early an age,-—it must be
so clear to even the blindest devotees that this could be no place for
striking the rock for water,—natural springs abounding in the whole
district. 1 should be disposed to consider the choice of this stone for a
relic of the miracle the device of a comparatively modern monkish age.
This rock was about twice the height of the tallest of our party; nearly
twelve feet. There are marks on it as of a rush of water. To leave
such marks,‘however, the water must have rushed for some hundreds
of years; and Burckhardt’s opinion is that the chisel was the more pro-
bable instrument. Still proceeding along El Ledja, we passed three
gardens and a chaos of boulders, and at last sat down in the pleasant
olive; grove belonging to the small convent of El-Erbayn, “ the Forty,"
so named from the .forty martyrs who perished here ;—monks or an-
chorites slaughtered by the Bedoueens. There are no clear particulars
told on the spot; but Dr. Robinson points out" that these forty martyrs
were probably the thirty-ei ht killed, and two mortally wounded, of the
hermits who were attacked y the Saracens in the fourth century, when
the holy Superior Doulas retired, with a few companions, into a tower
on the mountain. The story is that when the Saracens endeavored to
attack the tower, the whole of the summit of the mountain became
ﬁery; on seeing which, the enemy ﬂed, leaving the monks free to
come down and bury their dead.

We were invited into this convent by our servants; and we entered
it through a little orchard of blossoming trees. Mats were spread for
us in the gallery ; and there we were served with coffee, palm brandy,

' Biblical Researches, &c., I. 182.

