414 mm ma.

believeitisconcludedthatthenorthunwalleorrespondstotheouter-
most of the threewallaon thatsidewhichenclosedthecityinthose
days; and indeed there i but a narrow sinking of the ground, little
moretbanatrench,between thewallandthehigh ground. On these
slopes, and some wayback into the coon , lay the lines of Roman
tents, where now the whole ground was s with young barley,
and clumped and sprinkled over with olive trees. In a deep rural still-
ness, and passing among springing crops and fruitful orchards, we
crossed this great military site, till we came to the silent rock-retreat
which is named after Jeremiah.

The door was fast; and we knocked in vain. But on another ocea-
sion we obtained admission, and saw what we should have been sorry
to have missed. This wonderful retreat is entered by a door cut in
the south face of a rocky bill; which face seems to be artiﬁcially
opened. The grotto itself appears to occupy the whole interior of the
hill. A painter would ﬁnd subjects for years within that door,—
among the black, brown and gray rocks, the shadowy caverns, and
brilliant projections, where light falls in all imaginable eaprices. The
whole would be too sombre,—almost as gloomy as the meditations of
Jeremiah—but for the weeds, which here again east in their vivid green
to relieve the sense, and amuse the eye by the tossing of their tufts
and ladders and garlands. This grotto is not a single cave, but a spa-
cious set of caverns, separated by natural partitions, and rude pillars
and intercolumnar screens. There is a whole nest of vaulted chapels
or dwellings, crypts, and chambers, at hand,—accessible, I believe,
only by the one portal in the hill side. The Latin monks occasionally
perform mass in the cavern: and this was all we could learn about
the place.

We were determined not to be disappointed of our reading to-day ;
and so we gave Abdallah to understand. He placed himself within
hearing, and watched us with an appearance of strong curiosity. From
the Cave, we had come round under the walls to the eastern side, where
we found in the Turkish cemetery, some scanty shade, where we could
sit, and look and listen. Here we read the whole of the Gospel of
Matthew which relates to scenes and events in Jerusalem or the neigh-
borhood. Behind us was the enclosure where the temple stood. At
our feet, the ground sleped steeply down into the Valley of Jehoshaphat.
In the depth of the valley was the channel of the brook Kedron, and
on its opposite bank, far below to the left, was the Garden of Gethse-
mane, with its hoary olives. Before us uprosc the long slope of Olivet,
over which, to the right, slanted the road to Bethany. When, in my
youth, I used to pore over the four Gospels, trying to make a Harmony
and a map on paper, and pictures in my mind, how little did I dream
that I should sit and read the record here, under the temple wall, and
ﬁnd many things made so wonderfully clear! And 0! how simple,
how familiar, how cheerful, (yet all the more pathetic for that.) are his
teachings, when read in the presence of their illustrations, in comparison
with the solemn delivery of them, cut up into verses, in our churches,
and even in our family circles at home! The biblical scholar may

