ram. 156

Some merriment: for here is a grand banﬂuet. The provision is va-
rious : quarters of beef, cakes, fruits, wine asks, &.c. And in the re-
ception room, how decorous is everything l—at least, before dinner!
Here are the host and hostess, in a handsome chair, looking towards
their guests, who are ranged in front, the gentlemen in one ﬁle; the
ladies in another. Every lady is smelling at a large water-lily with
all her might. To the host’s chair a monkey is tied. Perhaps Amosis
brought it home after one of his voyages up to the'south. There is a row
of musicians, playing on the harp and the double-pipe, and some clap-
ping; by way of a little amusement before dinner.

But to all things there comes an end. We see here the day (how
far back in the depths of time!) when these merry feasts were all over,
—the lilies dead,—the music hushed,—the last of this man’s harvests
stored,—the last trip enjoyed by boat or chariot. The ﬁsh need no
more fear him in their pools, nor the fowl amon the reeds. Here he
is lying under the hands of the embalmers; an - next we see him in
mummy form on the bier, in the consecrated boat which was to carry
him over the dark river, and land him at the tee of the heavenly
abode where the Spirits of the dead, and the Judge Osiris were await-,
ing him, to try his deeds, and pronounce his sentence for eternal good
or ill. Here are the life and death of a man who lived so long ago
that at the ﬁrst mention of him, we think of him as one havin no
kindred with us. But how like ours were his life and death ! gonn-
pare him .with a retired naval ofﬁcer made country gentleman in our
day, and in how much less do they differ than agree!

I was sorry to see carved,—actually cut,—among the sculptures of
the easternmost tomb at Eilethyia, among the intrusions of many who
knew no better, such names as these of Irby and Mangles, Belzoni,
and Madden. If visitors must leave their names, why not do it on the
rough rock by the entrance? Can there ever come a day, however far
off, when it will not be a sin for strangers to carve their names all over
the statuary in Westminster Abbey?

In the afternoon, between Eilethyia and Isna, we assed ﬁve boats
with European ﬂags ;-—one of which was Russian, andp the rest English.
The Russian countess was an English woman, moreover. I could not
but hope that these travelers would not pronounce decisively on the
scenery of Egypt, as observed from their boats; for they were too late
in the season to see much without the effort of going often ashore.
The river had sunk so much that we hardly recognized some districts.
whose aspect appeared totally altered from what it was a few weeks
before. We had missed the birds, while we were up in Nubia. We
never saw again such myriads as ﬁlled the depths of the heavens when
we set out on our voyage: but now we began to note large flights of
them, increasing daily as we drew near the plain of Thebes.

I think I had better say little of Isna, whose temple is so universally

raised that every one knows all about it. Those have heard of it who are
ignorant of almost everything else about Egypt. If it were ancient,
I could not refrain from giving my impressions of it: but the only relic
of the old ediﬁce supposed to exist is a small red door jamb, bearing

