‘H

was mm. 43

can never, in a mere passage through an Eastern country, make her-
self look like an Eastern woman; and an unsupported assumption of
any native custom will obtain for her no respect, but only make her
appear ashamed of herown origin and ways. It is better to appear as
she is, at any cost, than to attempt any degree of imposture.

While we were waiting in the streetto have our letters addressed in
Arabic to the care of our consul at Cairo, I was, for the ﬁrst time, struck
by the number of blind and one-eyed people among those who surrounded
us. Several young boys were one-eyed. As every body knows, this
is less owing to disease than to dread of the government.

It was strange to see, in the middle of a large town, vultures and
other wild birds ﬂying overhead. Among others, we saw an eagle,
with a ﬁsh in its beak.—On our way to the caves in the Djebel, we
met a funeral procession coming from the cemetery which lies between
the town and the hills. The women were uttering a funeral howl worthy
of Ireland.

Our donkeys took us up a very steep path, nearly to the ﬁrst range
of caves. A When we turned to overlook the landscape, what a view
was. there! Mr. E., who has traveled much, said he had never seen
so rich an expanse of country. I felt that I had seen something like
it; but I could not, at the moment. remember where. It was certainly
not in England: nor was it like the plains of Lombardy; nor yet the
unfenced expanse of cultivation that one sees in Germany. At last,
it struck me that the resemblance was to an Illinois prairie. -The
rich green, spreading on either hand to the horizon, was prairie-like:
but I never was, in Illinois, on-a height which commanded one hun-
dred miles of unbroken fertility, such asI now saw. And even in
Illinois, in the ﬁnest season, there is never such an atmosphere as here
gave positive brilliancy to every feature of the scenery. A perfect
level of the most vivid green extended north and south, till it was lost.
not in haze, but from the mere inability of the eye to take in more:
and through this wound away, from end to end, the full blue river.
To the east, facing us, was the varied line of the Arabian hills, of a
soft lilac tint. Seventeen villages, overshadowed by dark palms, were
set down beside the river, or some little way into the land; and the
plain was dotted with Arab husbandmen and their camels, here and
there, as far as the eye could reach. Below us .lay the town, with its
brown, ﬂat-roofed houses, relieved by the palms of its gardens, and
two or three white cupolas, and fourteen minarets, of various heights
and forms. Between it and us lay the causeway, enlivened by groups
of Arabs, with their asses and camels, appearing and disappearing
among the thickets of acacia which bordered it. Behind all lay the
brilliant Djebel—with its glowing yellow lights and soft blue shadows.
The whole scene looked to my eyes as gay as the rainbow, and as
soft as the dawn. As I stood before the cave,I thought nothing could
be more beautiful: but one section of it looked yet lovelier when seen
through the lofty dark portal of an upper cave. But there is no con-
veying such an impression as that.

The caves are tombs; some of them very ancient: so ancient, that

an,

