410 names am.

the places themselves: but Abdallah would not permit us to do so.
He had prepared his list of what we were to see, and took the ma-
nagement of us completely. He led us to the Golden Gate: a portal of
the Mosque of Omar, well Walled up, and constantly guarded; the Mo-
hammedans having a tradition that if ever they are driven out from
possession, it will be by the Jews or Christians entering at this gate.—
The temple wall can hardly have been entirely leveled at this part,—
any more than at the Jews‘ Place of Wailing; for the very large
stones,-—blocks of twenty-four feet long,—built into the wall near the
base, are, by universal agreement, ancient; though all the upper part
of the wall is manifestly modern. At this place Ifound a difﬁculty
which occurred to me whenever I passed under this eastern wall, or
through the valley of Jehoshaphat. above which we how stood—At
the bottom of this valley runs the brook Kedron,-—or rather, its chan-
nel; for I believe water is never seen in it. The valley is about half
a mile long, from the village of Siloam to the Garden of Gethsemane.
Its rocky sides are full of tombs; and here it is that the Jews expect
the Last Judgment to take place, founding their belief on the text (Joel
III. 12)—“ Let the heathen be wakened, and come up to the Valley
of Jehoshaphat: for there will I sit, to judge all the heathen round
about.” The Mohammedans of Jerusalem have picked up something
of this from the Jews; for they show a stone in this, their temple wall,
where their prophet is to sit on the last day,rwhile Christ executes
judgment in the valley below. Now, in the time of Herod's temple,
there was a sheer descent, from the top of the temple buildings to the
brook, of 480 ft. What the depth of the valley is now,I can nowhere
learn ;’* but certainly it is nothing like this. And' there is such a pro-
jection under the wall as to form a terrace and long slope, where the
Mohammedans have made a cemetery. Much of this projection may
consist of rubbish from the overthrown city; as is the case with the
soil on Mount Zion : but it is difﬁcult to see how this side of the valley
should ever have been so precipitous as the old accounts make it. At
ﬁrst, I thought that the temple wall might have stood further out than
the present wall: but there are the ancient hewn stones to contradict
that supposition. The temple buildings on the eastern side being on
the wall'would give a considerable additional height: and their posi-
tion, crowning the steep side of the valley, must have been as ﬁne as
can be conceived: but how the total height can ever have been 480 ft.
it is not easy to see: nor how that side can ever have been wholly
recipitous. -

Abdallah showed us what is called, against all probability, the P001
of Bethesda. There are three arches at one end, which the stranger
is told are the ﬁve porches. These arches are walled up: and they,
and the whole circuit of walls, are tufted with weeds. All the pools
in Palestine are beautiful: and this not less than others. It was mea-

' Dr. Robinson gives the depth of the precipice merely, below- the S. E. corner of
the wall, at 150 ft. I should have supposed it more: but there is a long slope from
the top of the precipice to the base of the wall.——Biblical Researches, I. 343.

