vovass 'ro cam. 25

next May, and did his duty by us admirably. He is a native Egyp-
tian, young and strong, able and experienced in his work, and faithful
and correct in his money transactions. We met with other traveling
parties as content with their dragomen as we were with ours: and I
at present remember only one which was cursed with a bad attendant.
When we consider what qualiﬁcations are requisite in the ofﬁce, we
must see that the dragomen must be a superior class of people. It
was one of my amusements to study all whom I met; and when I
saw what their knowledge of languages was,—what their eﬂiciency in
daily business, their zeal in traveling, and their familiarity with the
objects en route wherever we went, their temper in times of hurry
and disaster, their power of command coexisting with their diligence
and kindliness in service, I felt that some of us might look very small
in our vocations, in comparison with our dragomen.

We proceeded in an omnibus to the Mahmoudieh Canal, where we
went on board the boat which was to carry us to Atfeh, at the junction
of the canal with the Nile. The boat was taken in tow by a smaller
steamer, named by a wag “ the little Asthmatic.” We heard a good
deal of her ailments,—-the cracks in her boiler, and so forth; so that
we hardly expected to reach Atfeh in due course.——'I‘he villas in the
neighborhood of Alexandria are pleasantly surrounded with gardens,
and fenced by hedges or palings hung with the most luxuriant creepers;
but the houses are of glaring white, and look dreadfully hot.—The
villages on the banks are wretched-looking beyond description; the
mud hots square, or in bee-hive form; so low and clustered and earthy,
that they suggest the idea of settlements of ants or beavers, rather than
of human beings. Yet we were every few minutes meeting boats
coming down from the country with produce,—various kinds of grain
and roots, in heavy cargoes. Some of these boats were plastered with
mud, like the houses; and so thickly that grass grew abundantly on
their sides.—On the heaps of grain were squatted mufﬂed women and
naked children; naked men towed the boats,—now on the bank, and
now wading in the mud; and mufﬂed women came out of the villages
to stare. Today there seemed to be no medium between wrapping
up and nakedness; but it became common, up the country, to see
women and girls covering their faces with great anxiety, while they
had scarcely any clothing elsewhere.

We saw the other extreme of dress in a passenger on board our
boat;—the chief eunuch of the royal hareem at Cairo. Neither his

I

beautiful dress,——of the ﬁnest cloth, amply embroidered,—nor his .

attendants and appliances could impress me with the slightest sense of
dignity in the case of this extraordinary-looking being. He was quiet
in his manners, conversed with apparent case, said his prayers and
made his prostrations duly on the top of the kitchen, telling his beads
with his long and skinny ﬁngers; but his emaciation and ugliness
baﬂled all the usual associations with the outward signs of rank. I
could not think of him as an ofﬁcial of high station.

This is the canal which, as everybody knows, cost the lives of above
twenty thousand people, from the pasha’s hurry to have it ﬁnished, and

