498 smut ms.

the necessarily imperfect adoption of the Free-will doctrine of ti:
modern Christian church is its weak point. With all this strenglha
the side of Mohammedanism, in contrast with the abused conditions
Christianity in the East. it can be no wonder that the more mom
faith prevails immeasurably in proportion to the more ancient and their
corrupted belief. Even to us of the western world, who must use
sarily be insensible to its afﬁnities with Eastern thought, and saints:T
to Eastern habits of feeling and of life. there is abundant reason app:
rent why Mohammedanism should have spread and taken root 3
widely and deeply as it has done. And to us of the western nods: ‘
must be clearer than to the people of the East, why Mohammedaah
cannot always endure, however long it may yet serve the needs d' s |
believers. , I
The fatal imperfection of Mohammedanism appears to be its 56?
posing Law, made known by precept, to be as positive, that is, as fat?
revealed, in Morals as in physical Nature. In Mohammedanism.‘beg
is not the slightest conception of a religion of Principles. Fact 13
positive precept are all that Mohammedanism contemplates ; and that
are not enough for a religion which is to endure. The Prephet n-
honest and sound-minded in excluding miracles from his schent
Marvels are too familiar in the East, too natural in their occurrence.It
be needed as an evidence there; and the Prophet was as well ant!
as we are that even if they were an evidence of physical power of 1‘
preternatural order, they could not possibly be an evidence of trutba’ ‘
doctrine. The powers attributed to devils and false prophets hf ‘
always decided this matter in the East. And Mohammed was host!‘
and sound-minded in rejecting a priesthood, or any other interventm
between men and God. This strong point he probably took [1'0B
Christianity ;-—the Mohammedan traditions of Christianity relatingh" y
a time prior to the fatal institution of a priesthood. But Mohammﬁi ‘.
was no philosopher. any more than he was an impostor. He had Ihf
strongest and most deﬁnite notions of the duty and wisdom of alumni!“2
obedience to the immutable Will of God: but he had no idea of that 1
will being communicated in any other way than by a collection 0’ 1"
precepts, and by the unmistakeable language of events. 0f the gate“? ‘.
ing power of Principles. he never formed any conception. He he?“ ‘
recognized them at all asguiding and governing powers ;—as that 10le
'of God which Christianity assumes them to be. It may be true til!1
“ Arab intensity,”—the passionate nature of the Orientals which £1th
them in so far children,—-necessitated the offer of a preceptive religion}
as the similar temperament of the Hebrews had before done in the"
case: but a religion appropriate to children can never be permanent an
universal. It may last very long and spread very widely still.—
wherever, and as long as, there are tribes of a childish cast or habit”!
mind in Asia and Africa: but it cannot serve the purposes of the who“
race: and herein lies the inestimable superiority of Christianity 3-‘0
the Christianity of Jesus himself. The whole purpose and scope0
his teaching were to imbue men with the spirit of faith and morals: 1°
detach them from forms and preceptive guidance, and introduce 1179‘”

 

