'rne mm. 39

racing down the precipice, and then, two of them, racing through the
water, struggling with the strong current, to board us for baksheesh.
The one who succeeded was quite satisﬁed, in the midst of his panting
and exhaustion, with ﬁve paras‘ and an empty bottle. He waited a
little, till we had gone about a mile, in order to have the help of the
current, and then swam 06' to his convent.

We passed the pretty town of Minyeh about noon; and then entered
upon sugar districts so rich as to make one speculate whether this
might not be, some day, one of the great sugar-producing regions of
the world. The soil is very rich, and irrigated by perpetually recur-
ring shadoofs: and the creps of canes on the ﬂats between the rocks
and the river were very ﬁne, and extending onwards for some days
from this time. The tall chimneys of the Rauda sugar manufactory
stood up above the wood on a promontory, looking very strange amidst
such a scene.—On our return, we visited the sugar manufactory at
Han, and learned something of the condition and prospects of the
manufacture. The Hon establishment belongs to Ibraheem Pasha,
whom we met there at seven in the morning. It is.quite new; and a
crowd of little children were employed in -the unﬁnished part, carrying
mortar in earthen bowls for 1d. per day. The engineers are French,
and the engine, one hundred-and-twenty horse power, was made at
Paris. The managers cannot have here the charcoal they use in
France for clarifying the juice. From the scarcity of wood, charcoal is
too dear; and burnt bones are employed instead,—answering the pur-
pose very well. We saw the whole process, which seemed cleverly
managed; and the gentlemen pronounced the quality of the sugar good.
An Englishman employed there said, however, that the canes were
inferior to those of the West Indies, for want of rain. There were a
hundred people at work inrthis establishment; their wages being, he-
sides food, a piastre and a quarter (nearly 3d.) per day. If, however,
the payment of wages is managed here as I shall have to show it is
usually done in Egypt, the receipts of the work-people must be con-
sidered much less than this. We heard so much or the complaints of
the people at having to buy, under compulsion, coarse and dear sugar,
that it is clear that much improvement in management must take place
before Egypt can compete with other sugar-producing countries: but
still. what we saw of the extensive growth of the cane, and the quality
of the produce, under great disadvantages, made us look upon this as
one of the great future industrial resources of Egypt.

The next morning, we could still distinguish the tall chimney of
Bands. We had been at anchor under a bank all night, the Rais being
in fear of a rock a-head. The minarets of Melawee were on a ﬂat on
the western bank, some way before us: and between us and them, lay
the caves of Benee Hasan;—those wonderful repositories of monu-
mental records of the old Egyptians, which we were to explore on our
return, but must now pass by, as if they were no more than what they
looketl,—mere apertures in the face of the mountains.

' Five paras are a farthing and one-ﬁlth.

