138 use!“ use.

tions, is either exclusively ours, or could not have meant the same to
people living before our form of faith arose. But what should we say
to such a supposition on the part of a more advanced race succeedin
ourselves? Ou ht not they'to admit the sacredness to us of oursa
language 3 An are we not bound to admit the sacredness to the old
Egyptians of the devotional language which we ﬁnd inscribed in the
Ho y Chambers of their temples, and which is delivered to us from out
of the records of their faith? This is not claimin parity of value for
their objects of faith and ours. It has nothing to o with the compara-
tive elevation, purit , and promise of any two faiths. 'It is merely a
claim that the Old ptians should be regarded as having a faith; a
faith to which they might refer the loftth ideas of a high order of in-
tellect, and in which they might repose the affections of their common
human heart. Without a clear admission of this much, in that spirit of
brotherhood which should unite us with the distant in time as truly as
with the distant in space, there is no use in inquiring into the history
and ofﬁces of Osiris, or of any other object of worship.

Different districts of the great valley assigned their higher honors to
different : but Osiris, Isis, and their son Horus were generally
held in t e deepest reverence. [believe that, except the Supreme,
Osiris was the only deity who was never named. When Herodotus
has described the scourgings and lamentings which follow the sacriﬁces
at the feast of Isis, he adds'l that it is not permitted to him to tell in
whose honor they scourge themselves and lament. And again, in
describing the images of the dead, prepared for the guidance of the
embalming process, Herodotus saysn‘ that the best represents, as he is
told, Him whose name he has an objection to utter. And thus he
always 3 aka of Osiris, by reverent allusion, and never by name. The
reason 0 this peculiar sacredness of Osiris, above all gods but the Sn-
preme, was his ofﬁce of Jud eof the livin and the dead. That which
made him so universally an eminently adored was his being the repre-
sentation, or rather the incarnation, of the Goodness of the Supreme.
The plurality of deities in Egypt arose from the practice, for popular
use, of deifying the attributes of the Supreme God. We have thus
seen his creative Spirit or Will embodied in one god; and the creative
art. or Artisan Intellect, in another; and we shall meet with more.
His primary attribute, his Goodness, was embodied in Osirisip who left
his place in the presence of the Supreme, took a human form, (though
not becoming a human being),§ went about the world doing good to
men, sank into death in a conﬂict with the Power of Evil ;l| rose up to
spread blessings over the land of Egypt and the world, and was ap-
pointed Judge of the Dead,1I and Lord of the heavenly region, while
present with his true worshipers on earth, to do them good. Such
were the history and functions of Osiris, as devoutly recorded by the
Egyptians of several thousand years ago. And here, in Philce, was his
sepulchre, where the faithful came in pilgrimage, from the mighty

' Herod. II. 61. 1' Ibid. 11. 86.
I Wilkinson’s Ancient Egyptians, IV. 189. 5 Ibid. IV. 317.
I Ihid. IV. 189. 1T Ibid. IV. 314.

