THE NM. 46

sent hither from Constantinople, to learn from the hermit what would
be the event of the civil war. I once considered the times of the Em-
peror Theodosius old times. How modern do they appear on the
hill-side at Asyoot! _

Our Scotch friends came up in the evening. As they were detained
for the same reason as ourselves, we left them behind when we
started the next afternoon. They gave us bows and waving of hand-
kerchiefs, when the shouts of our crew gave notice of our departure;
and they no doubt hoped to see us again speedily.

The next day, I told Mr. E. that a certain area we were coming to
on the east bank must be the site of some old town. I judged this
from the advantages evident at a glance. The space was nearly semi-
circular,-—-its chord being the river-bank, and the rest curiously sur-
rounded by three ranges of hills, whose extremities overlapped each
other. There was thus obtained a river frontage, shelter from the sands
of the desert behind, and a free ventilation through the passages of the
hills. We referred toour books and map, and found that here stood
Anteopolis. From this time, it was one of my amusements to deter-
mine, by observation of the site, where to look for ancient towns; and
the requisites were so clear, that I seldom found myself deceived.

Diodorus Siculus tells us that Antte (supposed by Wilkinson to be
probably.the same with Ombte) had charge of the Ethiopian and
Lybian parts of the kingdom of Osiris, while Osiris went abroad
through the earth to beneﬁt it with his gifts. Antte seems not to have
been always in friendship with the house of Osiris, and was killed here
by Hercules,‘I on behalf of Osiris; but he was worshiped here, near
the spot where the wife and son of Osiris avenged his death on his
murderer Typho. The temple sacred to Anne, (or in the Greek,
Antaeus,) parts of which were standing thirty years ago, was a rather
modern aﬂ'air, having been built about the time of the destruction of the
Colossus of Rhodes. Ptolemy Philopater built it; and he was the
Egyptian monarch who sent presents and sympathy to Rhodes, on
occasion of the fall of the Colossus. Now nothing remains of the
monuments but some heaps of stones :—-nothing whatever that can be
seen from the river. The traveler can only look upon hamlets of
modern Arabs, and speculate on the probability of vast “ treasures hid
in the sand.”

If I were to have the choice of a fairy gift, it should be like none of
the many things I ﬁxed upon in my childhood, in readiness for such
an occasion. It should be for a great winnowing fan, such as would,
without injury to human eyes and lungs, blow away the sand which
buries the monuments of Egypt. What a scene would be laid open
then! One statue and sarcophagus, brought from Memphis, was buried
one hundred and thirty feet below the mound surface. Who knows
but that the greater part of old Memphis, and of other glorious cities,
lies almost unharmed under the sand! Who can say what armies of
sphinxes, what standards ofeob-Lmightstanuponthebanksofthe

’Qniteadihenspemﬁomtheasukﬂm

