340 aux-nu nut.

that might be stirring. I found a very small shaded nook under a wall,
close at hand; and there I carried camp-stool, book, and a double um-
brella, to moderate the light. The camp-stool and my feet sank into
the deep sand, which was yet cool: I lowered my umbrella, so as to
shut out all ob'ects, and there I sen—my imagination bein presently
as much at etra as my bodily frame was at Akaba. I was ﬁrst
startled by the ﬂapping of something scarlet on the sand, under the
edge of my umbrella: and amazed, indeed, I was at sight of what the
umbrella had hidden from me. Within a yard of me sat the Council,
smoking away in full and solemn negotiation. The scarlet belonged
to Sheikh Hussein himself; his robe was of scarlet cloth over a striped
crimson and yellow tunic of satinet. He wore a prodigious shawl
turban, lowering over his extraordinary face. At the ﬁrst piercing look
be ﬁxed upon me, I felt that it was a face which would haunt me for
life. He sat with his back against the wall, pouring out incessant
clouds of smoke, and attended by his son, his pipe-bearer, and other
vassals. Our dragoman was in waiting. In front of the Shaikh sat
the deputation of the caravan,—three gentlemen on camp-stools, look-
ing as excessively solemn as they could. As I found myself there, I
thought I might as well stay; and very interesting I found the scene.—
One spectacle which I thought exceedingly pretty throughout the East,
was the earnestness and grace of the interpreters. Here was Alec,—
sometimes in his eagerness, dropping on one knee, sometimes grasping
the Sheikh’s hand with his own left, while he laid down his meaning
upon it with the right: at other times using the most vehement action,
and then the most persuasive tones ;—now following the Sheikh's move-
ments in unconscious imitation, and now listening with his whole soul
to his employers’ statements ;—it was a charming picture: and the ne-
gotiation this morning was of such importance that I saw the spectacle
to rfection. .

hat passed at this time was as follows :—Out of the Sheikh’s thou-
sand camels, he could not collect and select the requisite number for our
caravan in less than seven days: and for this we were, of course, un-
willing to wait: so he and Bisbara were to take us on with nearly our
present set to Petra irLthree days. Others were to meet us there,.for
the transit of the rest of the Desert to Hebron, which would occupy
about seven days from Petra. We were to stay a few days at Petra.
The sum demanded was 201. a head to Hebron, including eve thin ,-—
an insurance of ourselves and our pro rty, baksheesh, and e tri ute
to the Sheikh at Petra. Two-thirds o the sum was to be paid at once,
and the rest at Hebron. Alee told us that Hussein would by this make
not more than 2!. or 31. a head, as he had to pay ﬁve sheikhs to go with
us, guards, and the subsistence of his camels and men. We were to
set out the next morning. '

We were warned that there might yet be a bitch: and so it proved:
and not one, but many. I little thought ever to have witnessed the
working of any passion in such perfection as I saw that of avarice in
Sheikh Hussein, up to the last moment before our parting at Hebron.
He cannot help himself now. To this passion he is a slave, every day,

