m tum pm. 111

Chantre‘y’s works at home. The upper part of the statue is somewhat
rrode ; but the under part retains its polish. If this statue is really
the colossus which Herodotus speaks of as erected in front of the tem-
ple of Phthah, what a pity it is that further research is not made, and .
that glorious structure laid open to view from beneath the mounds!
Herodotus says that that statue of Sesostris was accompanied b one of
his wife, of similar proportions, and by four smaller ones of hts sons.‘I
But, if Lepsius is right in believing Sesostris to bee Pharaoh of the
First Period, this is not the statue. At all events, there it lies in the
mud; likely to be, as Sir G. Wilkinson observes, burned for lime, any
da , by the Turks. ' ~ ,

zl‘he view which I obtained from a rid in the Necropolis was truly
dreary. It was at the colorless time of ay—noon: and there was no
relief to the white expanse of waste. but black and bristling palm taps
in clumps, with a slight glimpse of the green beneath. The citadel
of Cairo, white, on its white rock, was about a dozen miles oﬂ" to the
northeast; the white city stretching from it westwards—a slender belt
of black palms dividing it from the desert plain on which I stood. A
range of white mounds near almost_hid the alluvion, beyond which rose
the white Arabian hills. All around, and ﬁlling up the whole scene
to the west, stretched the glaring Desert, oppressing the sense. Yel-
low “sand ads,” as they are called in my journal, la between the
mounds. 1?: the northwest stood the sharp-shadowe Pyramids of
Geezeh; and nearer, those of Abooseer: and close at hand, that of
Sakkira.

This Pyramid is built in degrees or terraces; the spaces between
the gradations being vervaide. Five. of these degrees are clearly
marked all round; a sixth was traceable by a bit of wall uncovered on
the north side: and a deep well was at our feet, on that north side,
wherein there is, as we were told, an entrance, probably opening upon
aseventh terrace. The sand has hidden a large proportion of this
Pyramid: but, makin all allowance for that, we saw no great wonder,
. nor any beauty, thus ar. - -

“’e next went to the mummy pits; and ﬁrst into the underground
world of ibises. There is no season of Egyptian travel in which one’s
sensations are more stran e than in that spent in mummy pits. Here
were underground cham rs, pillared, painted, and scu ptured, exca-
vated into ornamented recesses, and consecrated to the gods ; and de-
stined for the burial of birds. And then the cats! In a sort of quarry,
lay strata of these bodies,'the rags ﬂuttering out, and the layers con-
sisting of hosts of cats. The feline population of a whole continent for
ages would be required, it seems, to ﬁll these pits. The cats are
swathed like the human body; the ibises are inclosed in red pots, like
chimney-pots, with the round end cemented on.

I am far from wondering at the feelings of contempt and disgust ex-
pressed by most travelers who visit these pits. I was conscious of some
tendency to those feelings in myself; but I think it is necessary to re-

' Herod. I]. 110.

