20 smart LIFE.

procession of ladies on asses—each lady enveloped in a sort of balloon
of black silk, and astride on her ass—her feet displaying a pair of bright
yellow morocco boots. Each ass was attended by a running footman;
and the ofﬁcer of the hareem brought up the rear.

By this time, my friends were ready for a cup of coffee and a walk
before breakfast: and we went forth to see what we could see. After
leaving the square, we made our way through heaps of rubbish and
hillocks of dust to the new fortiﬁcations, passing Arab huts more sordid
and desolate-looking than I remember to have seen in other parts of the
country. We met fewer blind and diseased persons than we expected;
and I must say that I was agreeably surprised, both this morning and
throughout my travels in Egypt, by the appearance of the people.
About the dirt there can be no doubt—the dirt of both dwellings and
persons—and the diseases which proceed from want of cleanliness; but
the people appeared to us, there and throughout the country, sleek,
well-fed and cheerful. I am not sure that I saw an ill-fed person in all
Egypt. There is hardship enough of other kinds—-abundance of
misery to sadden the heart of the traveler—but not that, as far as we
saw, of want of food. I am told, and no doubt truly, that this is partly
owing to the law of the Kurin by which every man is bound to share
what he has, to the last mouthful, with his brother in need; but there
must be enough, or nearly enough food for all, whatever be the law of
distribution. 0f the progressive depOpulation of Egypt for many years
past, I am fully convinced; but I am conﬁdent that a deﬁciency of food
is not the cause, nor, as yet, a consequence. While I believe that
Egypt might again, as formerly, support four times its present popula-
tion, I see no reason to suppose, amidst all the misgovernment and
oppression that the people suffer, that they do not still raise food
enough to support life and health. I have seen more emaciated, and
stunted, and depressed men, women and children in a single walk in
England, than I observed from end to end of the land of Egypt. So
much for the mere food question. No one will suppose that in Egypt
9. sufﬁciency of food implies, as with us, a sufﬁciency of some other
things scarcely less important to welfare than food.

We saw this morning a sakia“ for the ﬁrst time—little thinking how
familiar and interesting an object the sakia would become to us in the
course of three months, nor how its name would for ever after call up
associations of the ﬂowing Nile, and broad green ﬁelds, and thickets of
sugar-canes, and the melancholy music of the waterwheel, and the pic-
turesque ﬁgures of peasant children, driving the oxen in the shady
circuit of the weed-grown shed. This, the ﬁrst we saw, Was a most
primitive aﬁ'air, placed among sand hillocks foul with dirt, and its
wooden cogwheels in a ruinous state. We presently saw a better one
in the garden of the German Consul. It was on a platform, under a
trelliee of vines. The wheel, which was turned by a blind folded ox,
had rude earthen jars bound on its vanes, its revolutions emptying
these jars into a trough, from which the water was conducted to irrigate
the garden.

’ Waterwheel.

