250 sac-run ms.

securely fastened; and when the guests, who had mounted their horses
in the court, reached the gates, they found them closed, and nobody to
answer their call to have them Opened. As they turned, to gallop back
to the Pasha, a murderous ﬁre was directed upon them from above.
They could ﬁnd no one; and they were surrounded by high walls.
Men and horses lay heaped together in the agonies of death. Some
ﬂed round and round the court till the inevitable ball reached them:
and more than one, in rage and agony at such a death being appointed
to armed men in their martial strength, drove their heads against the
stone walls, or shot out their own brains. One only escaped ;—Emin
Bey, who made his horse leap the parapet, alighted on a heap of rub-
bish in the street below, pushed his frantic horse to a gallop through
the narrow streets, and took refuge with some Arabs, whose tents were
about two miles from the city, and who concealed him till he could
reach the sea, and quit the country. The Pasha employed his barbar-
ous Greek soldiers to do this deed, and paid them by a license to
plunder the houses of the Memlooks. The slaughter and ravage which
ensued were so horrible that the Pasha himself had to parade the city
on the second day, to put a stop to the pillage. The massacre took
place on the let of March, 1811; and the number of Memlooks slain
in the citadel is reported to be from 360 to 440. How many more of
inferior rank were slain in the city, no one seems to know, the reports
varying from 80 to 1200. Of course, the Memlook power was de-
stroyed. The Pasha obtained his object with regard to that. But the
memory of this deed interferes fatally with his other great object of
being considered to have emancipated himself from the barbarism of
the eastern world.

We saw his palace, in which there is nothing remarkable. His bath
was yet warm: and his ﬁne, uncomfortable, embroidered towel still
wet. His gardener offered ﬂowers to Mrs. Y. and me, in bouquets of
a pyramidal form,—as carefully built up, in their way, as the pyra-
mids themselves.

The fete of the Birth of the Prophet happened when we were at
Cairo; and we went at noon to see what it was like. The best part
of it was the appearance of the city that day, when the people were
all dressed in their best; the men with clean turbans and bright purple
tunics, and the ladies with gay silks under their ﬂoating balloon mantles
of black silk. 0n the spot of the fete, the scene was not unlike that
of a fair at home, except of course in regard to the dresses, and that
the riders in the swings sat in the oriental fashion. There was abooth
with dancing girls: a horrid sight, which we were glad to turn away
from. So hideous a creature as the one who was dancing, I never saw;
the music was only the ordinary drum, or tom-tom, as it would be
called further south in Africa: and the dancing is an observance which
we could never understand,—there being neither grace, nor mirth, nor
any other merit in it that we could perceive. Whenever we saw it,
in this booth, in the hareems, or on our deck, it appeared to us the
same disagreeable and foolish wriggle, without activity of limb, or grace
of attitude. The rest of the spectacle at this fete was merely swing-

