romav 'ro emu. 309

inclosures, delighting my eyes with the asphodel which blossomed
richly in the crevices of the rocks ;—sometimes within reach, so that
I had actually bouquets to present to my friends when they overtook
me. There is nothing like the words written down at the time; so
here are those of my journal of that date. “ Paths through the
tamarisks; and Arab tents, and black goats and swathed goat-herds;
and the ﬁrst sunlight dropping in through the mountain clefts,—golden
beyond description, and making golden thewaving palm tops in the
illumined nook I looked down upon. On turning round,I saw our
loaded camels coming winding through the tall stems behind me, and
their drivers among the trees. How must Feiran (if then like what
it is now) have appeared to the Israelites after their wandering in the
arid places of the Desert! But it is not fertile, 'as some authors say,
who mean by that that it is cultivated. I saw nothing grown by bus-
bandry; and the soil is sandy as elsewhere. Tender grass and cresses
spring in the brook; and there are tufts of herbage and weeds in the
rock-clefts: but the palms are unpruned, and all is wild, however
sweet.—As we pursued the Wadee, the vegetation subsided into the
usual Desert tufts; and the way was hot and dry. Our last views of
Mount Serbal were very ﬁne as it tower‘ed,—all in lilac hues and blue
shadows,—above the nearer mountains behind us. Before us were
rising all the morning, the peaks of the Sinai nucleus.”

It was this which made that Saturday, the 6th of March, a remarka-
ble day to us. On this day, we traveled from Wadee Feiran to Mount
Sinai, and at night we rested in the convent.

It must be understood that the whole cluster of mountains before us
is called Sinai ;—-the whole region which arises above the plain. At
a considerable elevation, a wide plain spreads, out of which branch
many wadees. From this plain springs a cluster of rocky mountains,
at whose base lies the conventof Mount Sinai.——Further,—this cluster,
as seen from the plain, is called at this day (however it might be for-
merly) Horeb: and when the heights of Horeb are attained, other
mountains or peaks are seen to spring, which are invisible from below.
The two principal peaks are those of Moses or Sinai Proper, and
Saint Catherine. Thus, there are two great ascents to' reach the
base of Sinai Proper: and the ﬁrst of these we accomplished this
morning. As my journal says—“ We followed wadees, crossed
low ridges, dipped down into a deep, narrow, tufted valley, drank
water from our skins, crossed and emerged, and entered upon the
deﬁle which leads to the plain of Sinai. What a rugged and steep
ascent it is,—winding always, but never with any terriﬁc depth below !
I kept my seat till we reached our lunching-place, in the shadow of
rocks, whence we saw the rear of our caravan creeping over the levels
below. Then [walked some way, but was soon glad to mount my
camel, which seemed well at home in this chaos. The coloring of
the rocks was as vivid and striking as at any former point of our journey ;
and the myrtle green of the shale was relieving to the eye.—We came
out at last upon the plain where one would like to think the Hebrews
were encamped; a level expanse of sand, tufted with Desert plants;

