ascatv'r orenous. 317

and dates preserved in oil—which some of the party found highly oﬂ‘en-
sive, and others rather liked. This convent and garden are in the
charge of the Arab dependents of the Christians; and a few of . the
monks occasionally live here. About ten o’clock, we began to climb
the mountain. As we were on the opposite side from that which we
ascended yesterday, we were, of course, in the sunshine; and blazing
and broiling sunshine it was, till we reached the highest ravine. Here
was no path, nor any steps like those which had so aided us on the
other side of the mountain. It was rough and toilsome climbing till
we reached the little plain on which grows the solitary cypress. Then,
after descending a little, we ascended a ravine which few travelers have,
I believe, attempted, and where women had probabl never before set
foot. Dr. Robinson speaks strongly‘ of the diﬂicu ty and danger'of
the latter part of the ascent, which appears to have been more formi-
dable to him than to us. When we reached our point, we thought no
more of our fatigues, nor of our doubts how to get down again. There,
besides all, or nearly all, that we saw yesterday, we beheld, stretched
below us, the wide plain and its tributary wadees—a space amply suf-
ﬁcient for the encampment of the Hebrews, be their numbers what they
might. “ The whole plain,’.’ says Dr. Robinsond’ “lay spread out be-
neath our feet, with the adjacent wadees and mountains r while Wadee
esh-Sheikh on the ri ht, and the recess on the left, both connected with,
and openin broadly rom, ercRiihah (the plain) presented an area which
serves near y to double that of the plain. Our conviction was strength-
ened, that here, or on some one of the adjacent cliﬂ‘s, was the spot where
the Lord ‘ descended in ﬁre’ and proclaimed the Law. Here lay the
plain where. the-whole congre tion might be assembled; here was the
mount that could be approac ed and touched, if not forbidden; and
here the mountain brow, where alone the lightnings and the thick cloud
would be visible, and the thunders and the voice of the trump be heard,
when. the Lord ‘ came down in the sight of all the people upon Mount
Sinai.’ ” - a

We chose for our resting-place the shadow of a rock where we sat
long, looking abroad upon a scene which fulﬁlled all our expectations
and desires. The spreading plain and its tributaries made the view a
far ﬁner one than that from Djebel Mousa. Again Serbal stood out
grandly, towering above all the other mountains; and again the eastern
Arabian hills were ex uisitely beautiful. Immediatel below us Was a
fearful precipice which it was scarcely possible to 100 down steadily.
It was only by being unable to discover the sea that we were aware of
being at a lower point than yesterday. One alone of our party ven-
tured up the small remaining distance; and he went without shoes,
and supported by two Arabs.

After relating his process of measurement of the plain at the foot of
Sinai, Dr. Robinson says :1-—“ We may, therefore, fairly estimate the
whole plain at two geological miles long, and ranging in breadth from

' Biblical Researches, &c., I. 157. T Ibid. 158. .1: Ibid. 141.

