270 am am.

rash and positive about others, it is clear that there must be a reason
for his new slowness and uncertainty: and that reason may be other
than one of foreign policy. When I hear that either canal or railroad
is certainly begun in earnest, and not merely surveyed for, I shall believe
that it may be at work in time. Till then, I am not disposed to think
we shall have either during the old man’s life. If he goes seriously
into the undertaking at all, I think he will make a canal. If he makes
a canal.I think it will be an inland oue,—from the Nile to Suez. And
if he makes a railroad, I think it will not be the English one which has
been so earnestly pressed on his attention, both from England and on
the spot. The only thing I am sure of, however, is that people at
home had better not decide what the Pasha ought to do, and represent
the matter as a very plain and simple one. For my own park—while
seeing as distinctly as any one the advantage to my own country of an
improved passage across the Isthmus of Suez, and after having learned
on the spot all that I could on every side, I see that it is a matter so
complicated at ‘present with diﬁculties of many kinds, that I am glad
not to be oblige to form an opinion on what ought to be done.

I really feel very doubtful about sending this chapter through the
press,—so meager as it is, and yet so vague. I could have made it
much fuller, and far more interesting and distinct, if I had written down
what I was told,—or either side of what I was told. But, as I said
before, I could not rely on the information, while entirely relying on
the honor of those who kindly gave it. I have thought it best to offer
only the little that I believe to be true. Of this little I cannot say how
much might be modiﬁed by facts which may lie behind; and I feel that
I know scarcely anything of the modern Egyptian polity but the sig-
niﬁcant fact that nothing can he certainly known.

 

CHAPTER XXIV.

GARDENS 0F RODA AND SHOOBRA—HELIOPOLIS.—PETRIFIED FO-
REST.—TOMBS OF THE MEMLOOK KIN GS.—THE NIIDMETER—
LEAVING CAIRO.

Tns roses which hang over the wall of the garden in the island of
Roda are a pleasant sight to the traveler returning from the south.
As some of our party had letters to the gentleman who is in charge of
the place, we went to see it. The fame of this garden proves how
difﬁcult it must be to have a good garden at Cairo. Besides the roses
(which were not abundant) we saw a few anemones and violets; and
that was nearly all. The fruits are oranges, dates and bananas, excel-
lent; grapes, pretty good; peaches and nectarines not good; melons
bad. Neither fruits nor ﬂowers can satisfy one who knows what gar-
dening is in EurOpe. Sometimes, there is drought; and then again,
the river comes up occasionally to destroy everything,—to drown the
garden. There is to be a steam-engine to water the place with; and

