234 2mm Lira.

country estates repaired to the great provincial towns: large numbers
emigrated to Syria, Magreb, Hedjaz, and Yemen, where they dispersed
themselves on every hand, as did formerly the descendants of Saba.
There was also an inﬁnite number who sought retreat in the towns of
Misr‘ and Cairo, where the experienced a frightful famine and mor-
tality; for when the sun he entered Aries, the air had become corrupt,
pestilence and a mortal contalgion began to be felt; and the r, pressed

y a contmuall increasing amine, ate carrion, corpses, and the
dung of anima . They went further, even devouring lit e children.
It was not an uncommon thing to surprise people with infants roasted
or boiled. The commandant of the city caused all who committed this
crime.to be burned alive, as well as those who ate that meat. I myself
saw in a basket an infant that had been roasted. It was brought to the
magistrate; and with it a man and woman who were said to be its pa-
rents, and whom the magistrate sentenced to be burned alive.

“ In the month of Ramadhan, a corpse was found at Misr, which
had been stripped of its ﬂash for food, and whose le were tied, like
those of a sheep prepared for cooking. Galen desiregain vain to’obtain
a sight of such a skeleton ; and there were no means that he did not
attempt for the purpose. This spectacle has been no less sought by
all who have devoted themselves to the stud of anatomy. _

“ When the poor began to eat human ﬂes , the horror and astonish-
ment caused by the practice were such that these crimes were the ma-
terial of every one’s conversation; and the subject seemed inexhaustible :
but afterwards people became so accustomed to it, and such a relish
beoan to spread for this detestable food, that some came to make it their
or inary meat, to eat it as a treat, and even to lay in a stock of it: dif-
ferent ways of preparin this ﬂesh were made known: and the use of
it being once introduce . the custom extended into the provinces, so
that there was no part of Egypt where it might not be met with. Then
it no longer caused any surprise; the horror which it had at ﬁrst in-
spired ceased to be felt; and peOple spoke and heard of it as an indif-
ferent and ordinary thing.” ,

In this indifference lay the best hope of the cessation of the practice ;
for it is usually found that monstrous practices which arise out of ex-
tremity spread like a diabolical fashion ; and the distracted minds which
are shaken by afﬂiction ﬁnd a sort of relief in the excitement of deer-
perate practices: and when the strangeness and novelty are over. the
habitua disgust and compunction are pretty sure to return. It appears
in the later parts of Abdallatif’s narrative that it was so in this instance.
After citing some atrocious cases, he goes on to say—

“ There were children of the poor, some in infancy and some grow-
ing up, who had no one to look after them and protect them, spread
through all the quarters of the city, and in the narrowest streets, like
locusts that are beaten down in the ﬁelds. Poor people, men and

' By Misr, Abdallatif throughout means Old Cairo, originally called F ostitt. It
was built by the Mohammedan conqueror of Egypt (A. n. 638), on the site of the
Egyptian Babylon. The founder made it the capital and royal residence, which it
continued to be for about two centuries and a half.

