156 usual urn.

date in the time of Thotbmes I.. mentioned by Champollion. The

rtico bears the names of the Caesars: and, however greatly the world
ts obliged to them for erecting a very majestic and elegant temple, we
are not aided by it in our researches into the affairs of the old Egyp-
tians. The Pasha, as is known, cleared out the portico to the very
bases of the columns: and a noble hall it now is. The amount of ac-
cumulation is shown by the height of the dust-hill we had to descend,
from the alley in front of the temple. Our Rais shut out the children
who came swarming after us, as usual ; so that, for once. we explored
a temple at our ease. in coolness and freedom, and without being asked
for baksheesh.

If I were to enlarge on anything in regard to this temple, it would
be the amount of inscriptions. But it is indescribable,-unremember-
able,—incredible anywhere but on the spot. I have already said all
that language can say on this point: and I will leave it.

There is a Zodiac here, as every one knows: not ancient. No Zo-
diac in Egypt is ancient; but one or two offer Egyptian symbols which
it is interesting to notice :—the Scarabaeus for the Crab: the double-
headed Sphinx for the Twins: a truly Egyptian compound of an ani-
mal for the Seagoat: and a Man with the oriental waterskinpthe
Goat or Kid-skin—on his shoulder, for Aquarius.

I saw here ﬁrst the Serpents, human-headed and human-legged, of
which we soon met so much more primitive and satisfactory a represen-
tation at Thebes. These Serpents and many other nondescri pts abound
in this temple; so that it looks like an illustration of much of the book
of Revelations.—Here, for the ﬁrst time, I saw the Iorious Egyptian
symbol of the Heavens ;—the Long Arms of the god ess Pe encircling
a whole compartment of the vast ceilin .

This 18th of January was remarkab e for bringing us again among
the dwellings and resorts of a town population, after our retirement
and dreamings in the still southern regions. We visited the Pasha’s
palace, (bringing away some splendi jessamine from his garden.)
and his cotton factory; and his chained prisoners in the guard-house.
All wore chains, which glittered in the sun,—for they were new and
bright: and of these, seven had a collar round their necks, and their
hands conﬁned in a sort of stocks,—much more clumsy than any band-
cuffs. These seven were doomed to death ;—desperadoes who would
be hanged or shot if the Pasha did not reverse their sentence—of which
there seemed to be no expectation. They were as lively as the busy
passengers in the streets, and cried “baksheesh” as vigorously as any
idler in the place. The other prisoners were, we were told, thieves and
deserters.

Our stay at lens for so many hours was for the sake of the crew:
that they might bake their bread. This was done before evening; and
we proceeded, in order to reach the temple at Arment (the Greek Her-
monthis) by the morning. It was a glorious evening; and, after watch-
ing the young moon going down just after the sun, there were still
some things to be seen on the western bank. Whatever was on the
ridge showed black against the orange sky ;—a pacing camel: a string

