APPENDIX.

 

A.—p. 22.

Da SAOI, in his version of Abdallatif’s boolr, gives a long note' on the subject of
the connection of Pompey’s Pillar with the Alexandrian Academia and Library.
After telling us that he will not enlarge on the evidences already offered by Messrs.
Langlés and White, nor insist on the testimony of Arabian writers who may have
cupied from Abdallatif, he proceeds:

“ I will just observe that there is much weight in the testimony of a judicious
writer, who declares that he had himself seen the remains of these columns, and who
founds whatever he says about their destruction, and about the date of that destruc-
tion, on the unanimous report of all the inhabitants of Alexandria. I may add, that
this event, which happened in the reign of Saladin, took place at the utmost thirty
years before Abdallatif’s journey into Egypt: and also that the name of the column
is a strong conﬁrmation of the story. I can easily believe that there may be much
exaggeration in the number of four hundred columns, and even that Karadja was
guilty of nothing worse than completing the ruin of an ediﬁce which time had
already damaged, and employing the materials in a manner worthy of an ignorant
Mussulman: but the foundation of the story is not, for this, the less certain and
invincible. The only thing which could be desired for further conﬁrmation would '
be some testimonies from Mohammedan writers of one or two centuries earlier than
Abdallatif; who, in their descriptions of Alexandria, might mention these colonnades
as existing in their times. Mr. White has satisﬁed some of our wishes in this mat-
ter, in citing a passage from the abridger of Edrisi, who attests that the pillar in
question belonged to an ediﬁce situated in the middle of the city, ‘ whose columns,’
says he, ‘are still standing. The door jambs also remain. This ediﬁce forms an
oblong square; there are sixteen columns on each of the shorter sides; and sixty-
seven on each of the longer. Towards the northern side, there is a great pillar
adorned with a capital, and set on a pedestal of marble,’ 8m. Edrisi, of whose work
this author gives a mere abridgment, wrote about the year 548 of the Hegira, and
therefore ﬁfty years before Abdallatif. His testimony therefore conﬁrms what our
author relates of the ruin of this ediﬁce in the time of Saladin.—I can here cite other
authorities equally positive."—De Sacy does accordingly give testimonies from Ara-
bian writers prior to Edrisi; testimonies which leave no doubt what they were
writing about, though some oriental exaggeration is mixed with their narratives.
“These authorities,” De Sacy goes on to say, “leave no doubt that the column now
called Pompey’s Pillar owes its Arabian name of Pillar of the Colonnades to the
porticoes by which it was surrounded, and which were still standing, at least in
part, in the time of Saladin.”—Aﬁer adducing the authority of some modern scholars
in support of the facts under notice, De Sacy proceeds:

“I cannot satisfy myself without adding to the testimony of the Arabian writers
one much more ancient, which, it appears to me, has not been sufﬁciently attended
to, but which has not been neglected by M. Zoéga. It is taken from the writings
of the rhetorician Aphthoniuaf Aphthonius, after having described the situation

' Note 53, on Livre 1., ch. 4. . .

t Aphthonius, a rhetorician of Antioch is suiposed b some to have ltved tn the second
century of our era, and by some later. dis wor I, now tttle known, were in high esteem in
he ﬁlteeath and sixteenth centuries.

