cnuacn or was mmcu'rrou. 461

birth, and the annunciation of it from heaven, should have been laid
hold of, and repeated from age to age, however the character of the
theology might change, till at last, repeated without explanation, it
came to be taken, with other m thic stories, for historical truth, and is
to this day profanely and literally held by multitudes who should have
been trained to a truer reverence; and jested upon by multitudes more
who cannot be wondered at for looking no further into Christianity,
when they ﬁnd this old Egyptian and Hindoo allegory presented as a
historical fact at the very outset. Having stood before the“ sculpture of
the Annunciation at Thebes, and standing now between the pillars of
the Annunciation at Nazareth,l could not but feel how much less irre-
verence attached to the Egyptian doctrines, in their early age: and I
think no one can doubt what indignation would be expressed against
the blasphemous indecency of Egyptian superstition, if we knew that
they had presented to the people, as literal truth, such a story about the
birth of the most distinguished of Egyptian men as our poor and igno-
rant fellow—men are told in our Christian churches, through the mistake
of an ancient allegory for modern history. To the earnest and thought-
ful observer, it appears no wonder that Christianity has done so little to .
raise and purify the nations in eighteen centuries, while even now so
much of mythological fable is permitted to encrust it, and while so
many tenets which would be called immoralities in any other connec-
tion—'tenets which have found their way into Christianity as corrup-
tions, through~the self-will and vain im inations of former men—are
now preserved as essential doctrines by t e ignorance and timid super-
stition of later generations. Till the religion tanght by Jesus is purged
of its Egyptian, Greek, Assyrian and Pharisaic accretions and adultera-
tions, there can be little hope that its effects will answer to its romises,
and the mystery of its failure in regenerating the world w'l remain
what it now is.

In the church is hung, near the altar, what the monks call the por-
trait of Chrish—copied from an original likeness! They actually be-
lieve in this portrait-painting among the Jews at the time of Jesus!
However uncomfortable it makes one, one cannot help looking at this
picture, when it is before one’s eyes: and it is best to look; for there
can he no association of one’s idea of him with it after that. It is meant
to represent the ordinary conception of his face; and it is-not so bad as
to be indecent: but the face is wooden, and the eyes are not quite straight.
The belief of these ignorant monks is evidently sincere; as it won] be
if a printing-press or a mail-coach were given to them, as being relics
of the same date.

They took us to Joseph’s workshop, where, as they as , Jesus as-
sisted his father. It is now a small chapel, with a paltry tar. Next,
we were shown the house where, as the monks said, “Jesus gave a
supper to his friends, before and after his resurrection.” A rock starts
up out of the ﬂoor of this apartment, slanting, but so nearly round as
to resemble a table; and hence. no doubt, the origin of ‘ the tradition.
This “ Mensa Christi” appears to be valued above every other memo-

