mass. 161

coloring by the early sun. It was in that direction that our researches
were to lie for some days; and as soon as our boat was clear of visitors
after breakfast, we crossed the river, and took up our station of? the
Western bank. Ales was particular in his choice of animals for us to
ride, that we might be suited at once for the whole time of our stay on
the western side. Mrs. Y. had a horse—quieter than my donkey. I
was favored with a strong, spirited donkey, whose curator was an
active, open-faced, obliging youth, who discovered my wishes and aims
with wonderful quickness, and indul ed them to the utmost of his
power. He presently found out my iking for visitingthe Pair: and
also for a center over the plain: and almost every evening. he would
point to the Colossi, and nod and smile, and begin a run in that direc-
tion, while the rest of the party went straight to the boat. And he ran
so well that we generally fell in with my companions before they had
dismounted, though I had made a pretty wide circuit. I can never
lose the impression of these sunset rides homewards, after the excite-
ments and toils of the day. The Pair, sitting alone amidst the expanse
of .verdure, with islands of ruins behind them, grew more striking to us
every day. 4 To-day, for the ﬁrst time, we looked up at them from their
base. The impression of sublime tranquillity which they convey when
seen from distant points, is conﬁrmed by a near approach. There they
sit, keeping watch—hands on knees, gazing straight forward,seeming,
though so much of the faces is gone, to be looking over to the monu-
mental piles on the other side of the river, which became gorgeous
temples after these throne seats were placed here ;—-the most immov-
able thrones that have ever been established on this earth. He who
is popularly called the Memnon, is sadly shattered. This is the work
that Cambyses tried his hand upon overthrowing. With all his efforts,
be shattered it only down to the waist. It is built'up again; patched
up ;—a blank rough space only remaining where we would fain see a
face. If the faces were of the tranquil, innocent character which marks
the old sculptures, and would eminently suit the composure of the atti-
tude, the impression must have been majestic indeed: inviolable to any
one but Cambyses. Strabo says that, as he was told, the damage was
done b an earthquake. One would like to think that Nature, rather
than an, had done it; and perhaps the inscriptions of ancient visitors,
who lay the blame on Camb ses, need not have much wei ht. But
how came the earthquake to eave the mass of the throne an body un-
hurt, while shattering the shoulders and head? I suppose nobody
thinks that the whole was thrown over, and set up again, the fellow
colossus remainin uninjured. The inscriptions are wonderfully nu-
merous; most in tin; some in Greek. On the pedestal—the side
of the tbrone-chair—is old Nilus, once more busy, as in all times, in
binding up the throne of the King with his water-plants. The Kin
is Amunoph [11. His name is over the tablet bound up by Nilus; ang
also on the back of the statue.

These statues sit now, as I have said, in the midst of an expanse of
verdure, at the season when travelers visit them. At high Nile, they
are islands in the midst of a waste of waters. But of old, their pedes-

ll '

