m rvmms. 219

might sit and write, and gaze abro‘ad,and enjoy ourselves, without even
seeing over the edge, unless we wished it. There was only the lightest
possible breeze, just enough to fan our faces, without disturbing us.
The reason of our ascendingthe Pyramid ﬁrst, before going into it, was
that we mi ht take advantage of an hour of calm, and avoid the incon-
venience o? the wind which might spring up at noon. And most for-
tunate we were in our weather, and in all other particulars. It was a
glorious season,--full of new delight, without drawback ;—for I now
began to think I might perhaps see the inside of the Pyramid too.

Here are my notes of what we saw from the tap ;—a hei ht of 480
feet. “ Bearings by compass. In a line from us to the orth, the
hager (sand plain) joins the fertile land, a blue stream ﬂowing between
them, andt e line bein wavy, and having a sprinkling of palms to-
wards-the North. In this northern direction, the green plain extends
to the furthest horizon,'and over to Cairo eastwards. It is dotted with
villages,-—clusters of brown houses among palms,—ttnd watered with
blue thread-like canals, and showing a faint line of causeway here and
there.—E. by N., stands up the citadel of Cairo, the city stretching
north-westwards from it. Behind the city, some way round to the
N.N.E., is a low ridge of sand hills: and the other way, southwards,
the Mokuttam range, which looks higher the higher one mounts.
Round from hence are sandy hills, with alluvion‘and canals between
them and us, as far as the S.E., where the Nile wanders away, and
the Abooseer Pyramids rise. S.S.E. are the Sakkira Pyramids; and
from them, round the rest of the landscape, all is desern—terribly arid
and glaring. In the midst of the sand, a train of camels, wonderfully
diminutive, is winding along, and a few brown Arab tents are pitched,
not far from the foot of the Pyramid. Off our S.W. corner is the
Second Pyramid, standing in its sunken area, surrounded by walls, and
showing by the casing that is left how much ﬁner these Pyramids must
have looked before they were so dismantled.-Beyond this, lies the
little one.”—This was what we saw; and long we gazed in every
direction :-—most pathetically perhaps to the South, where we had seen
and left so much; or over into the Delta, which we should enter no
more, and which lay so rich and lovely between our eyes and the
horizon, that it seemed to be melting-away. We began letters to friends
at home, drank some water, intrepidly carried up by a little Arab girl;
mounted the highest block, to get as near the sky as we could; and
then found that we really must be going down.

The descent was fatiguing; but not at all alarming. . Between step-
pin , jumping, and sliding, with full reliance on the strength and care
of t e guides, the descent may be easily accomplished in ten minutes;
—as far, that is, as the height of the entrance to the Pyramid, which
is some way from the bottom. We had bargained before starting that
we should not be asked for baksheesh “ while going up the Pyramid.”
Our guides took this literally, and began begging, the moment we put
our feet upon the summit. And all the way, down, my guides never
let me alone, though they knew I had no money about me. They
were otherwise extremely kind, giving me the beneﬁt of their other

I
- r ‘
a. a

