288 smarts am.

this crowd of emi nts, a woman slipped away from her children, and
thus abandoned t e unhappy little creatures, who were tormented by
hunger till death put an end to their sufferings.”

After a dreadful notice of the sale for bread of people of condition,
Abdallatif tells us what he considers the most wonderful thing in the
whole history; a thing which to us does not appear wonderful at all;
that, notwithstanding such a complexity of woes as distinctly revealed
the wrath of God, men continued to adore the idols of their criminal
passions without any amendment, and still wallowed in the sea of their
sins. He seems to be unaware that the tempting devils of human pas-
sions are roused and exasperated and hardened by such hopeless mise-
ry as leaves them nothing more to fear from the anger of God, which,
in such a season, becomes to them a mere empty name.

He next tells us of the strange appearance of a multitude of dwell-
ings without any one to inhabit them. “I ought not,” he says, “ to omit
noticing the depopulation of towns and villages, and the desertion of
the unpeopled houses and shops :—this last trait belongs to the picture
which I have undertaken to draw ..... Even at Cairo, the mansions,
the houses, and the shops situated in the heart of the town, and in the
best quarters, are for the most part, empty or deserted,-so that, in the
most frequented part of this capital there is a mansion composed of
more than ﬁfty apartments which have all remained empty except
four, where some people are lodged to take care of the place. The
inhabitants of Cairo at the present time use no other fuel for their
hearths and ovens than rafters, doors, and posts.-—It is, however, a
thing well worthy of wonder that, among people who had always before
been unfortunate, there are some who have made a fortune this year.
Some have amassed wealth by trade in corn; others by coming to rich
inheritances: some others have grown wealthy without any one know-
ing how. Blessed be He who distributes or withholds his gifts accord-
ing to His good pleasure, and who gives a share of His favors to all
creatures!”

As the waters were so low previous to the inundation of this year as
to leave theNilometer completely dry, it is obvious that the ﬂood must
be again inadequate, unless a most unusual amount of water came down.
And it was inadequate: yet the account of the second year leaves the
reader consoled and hapeful; so that I. will give a few passages, which
are also necessar to the completeness of the narrative.

Not only did t e Nile cease to ﬂow at the base of the Nilometer on
the Geezeh side; it left a long and broad island, where fragments of
ancient constructions were observed. I wish Abdallatif had] told us
what these ancient constructions appeared to be. If he had, we might
have learned some secrets about the bed of the river, and about the
changes of its course. The corruption of the water was very great this
year. The inundation took place languidly, sometimes stopping; and
once, for three days, when the maple gave up all for lost, and prepar-
ed themselves for total destruction. This was on the 9th of August.
But it rose again, at irregular intervals, till the 4th of September, when
it reached ﬁfteen cubits, sixteen digits. It began to sink the same, day,

