88 usrnrrun.

English eyes, can be anywhere found. It is thoroughly African,
thoroughly tropical, very beautifulr-most majestic, and most desolate.
Something of the impression m' t be owing to the circumstances of
leave-taking under which we loo ed abroad from our station: but still,
if I saw this scene in an unknown land in a dream,I am sure I should
be powerfully moved by it. This day, it certainly interested me more
than the First Cataract.

I was tempted by the invitation of a sort of cairn on the tsp of a
hill not far inland, to go there; and thence I obtained another glimpse
of the Lybian Desert, and saw two more purple peaks rising west-
wards, soft and clear.

There is a host of names carved on the accessible side of Abooseer.
We looked with interest on Belzoni’s and some few others. We cut
ours with a nail and hammer. Here, and here only, I left my name.
On this wild rock, and at the limit of our range of travel, it seemed
not only natural, but right to some who may come after us. Our names
will not be found in any temple or tomb. If we ever do such a thing,
may our names be publicly held up to shame, as I am disposed to
publish those of the carvers and scribblers who have forfeited their
right to privacy by inscribing their names where they can never be
e aced!

The time arrived when we must go. It was with a heavy heart
that I quitted the rock, turned my back on the south, and rode away.

We found our boat prepared in the usual manner for the descent of
the river—the mainmast removed, and laid along overhead, to support
the awning; the kitchen shifted and turned; and the planks of the
decks taken up to form seats for the rowers, so as sadly to restrict our
small space. One of our dishes at dinner was an excellent omelette,
made of part of the contents of an ostrich’s egg. Two of these eggs
were bought for six piastres, (ls. 2d.) The contents were obtained
by boring a hole with a gimlet. The contents of this egg were found
to be equal to twenty-nine of the small hen’s eggs of this part of the
country.

We began our return voyage about 6 r. l., ﬂoating, sometimes
broadside down, and sometimes in towards the bank, when it became
the business of the rowers to bring us out again into the middle of the
stream. The wind was hostile, cold, and strong enough to be inces-
santly shoving us aside. Our progress was very slow. The ﬁrst night
we moored at six miles only from Wadee Halfa.

The next evening (January 6th) we were within half an hour of
Aboo-Simbil, when duty ordered me to my cabin. When I left the
deck, the moon had risen, the rocks were closing in, and the river was
like a placid lake.

In the morning we were to enter upon a new kind of life, as travel-
ers. We were to begin our course of study of the Monuments.

