18 camels mu.

to the margin of the sea: further round, the lighthouse; and to the
east, at the point of the land, a battery. The Pasha’s men-of-war,
which do not bear well a noon-day examination, looked imposing
amidst the brilliant lights and deep shadows of evening, their red ﬂag,
with its crescent and single star, ﬂoating and falling in the breeze and
lull. But for the gorgeous light, there would have been nothing beau-
tiful in the scene, except the ag (the most beautiful in the world) and
the ﬁgure of our pilot as he stood robed, turbaned and gesticulating on
the paddle-box ;—a perfect feast to western eyes: but the light shed
over the ﬂat and dreary prospect a beauty as home-felt as it does over
the gray rain-cloud when it brings out the bow. As we were turning
and winding into the harbor, a large French steamer was turning an
winding out—setting forth homewards—her passengers on deck, and
lights gleaming from her ports. Before we came to anchor, she was
aground; and sorry we were to see her lying there when we went
ashore.

Before our anchor was down, we had a crowd of boats about us,
containing a few Eumpean gentlemen and a multitude of screaming
Arabs. know no din to be compared to it but that of a frog concert
in a Carolina swamp. We had before wondered how our landing was
to be accomplished; and the spectacle of the departure of some of our
shipmates did not relieve our doubts. We could not pretend to lay
about us with stout sticks, as we saw some amiable gentlemen do.
purely from the strength of their philosOphical conviction that this is
the only way to deal with Arabs. Mr. E. had gone ashore among the
ﬁrst. to secure rooms for us: and what we three should have done
with ourselves and our luggage without help, there is no saying. But
we had help. An English merchant of Alexandria kindly took charge
of us; put our luggage into one boat and ourselves into another, and
accompanied us ashore. The silence of our little passage from the
ship to the quay was a welcome respite: but on the quay we found
ourselves among a crowd of men in a variety of odd dresses, and boys
pushing their little donkeys in among us, and carts pulled hither and
thither—everybody vociferating and hustling in the starlight. Our
luggage was piled upon a long cart, and we followed it on foot: but
there was an immediate st0ppage about some custom-house diﬂiculty—
got over we know not how. Then the horse ran away, broke his
girths, and scattered some of our goods. At last, however, we achieved
the walk to our hotel—a walk through streets not narrow for an eastern
city. All the way we had glimpses of smoking householders in their
dim interiors, turbaned artisans, and yellow lamplight behind latticed
windows. The heat was oppressive to us, after our cool days at sea.
The rest of the evening was fatiguing enough.

The crowd of Bombay passengers hurrying over their preparations.
their letter-writing and their tea, in order to start for Cairo at nine
o’clock; the growling and snarling of the camels, loading in the
Square; the ﬂare of the cressets;—the heat, light, noise and hurry
were overpowering after the monotony of sea life. I sought repose in
letter-writing, and had nearly forgotten our actual position when I was

