measures or was NILE. 233

[the place of the one who had just died ;) in which letter it was stated
that the rainshad that season been very moderate; and that this was
the reason of the lowness of the Nile.

It is a sign of a bad inundation if the waters of the river have a green
tinge and a bad odor at the time-of the visible rise of the ﬂood. The
aquatic mm and vegetable ﬁbres which occasion this corrupt state of
the water ought to be carried away quickly by the force of the current
sweeping through, and washing out the stagnant pools and nooks of
the damp shores. It is a bad sign if, the current is so low and lazy as
merely to ﬂoat this corruption. In the ﬁrst year of dearth of which
Abdallatif gives an account, the water was insufferable to the taste and
smell; and all who could had recourse to well-water. He boiled thh
Nile“ water; but that only made it worse: and when he let a portion
stand in a narrow-necked bottle, and,then took off the scum, he found
the water, though then clear as fetid as ever. This plague lasted, in
that terrible year, all through June and July and part of August: and
besides the putrid vegetable matter, there were worms and other-crea-
tures that swarm in stagnant water. Almost as soon as they :were

one, the inundation reached its limit for that year. On the 9th of
ptemher, it stood no higher than twelve cubits, twenty-one digits;
and it then be n to decline. The inhabitants could scarcely have had
time to ﬁll their cisterns, which they do when the waters have become
red (as they call it) and not before: that is, when they bring down earth
in suspension, instead of decayed vegetation. After ﬁltering, or when
the earth has subsided, the water of the Nile is the ﬁnest conceivable.

In the time of Ahdallatif, the people sat watching the rise of the
waters, as at this day: and terrib e must have been the consternation
when it appeared, on the 9th of September, that the scanty ﬂood was
already subsiding. Many thousands were watching there, who would
presently be beyond the reach of mortal hope or fear, listening for the
voice of the crier who would never proclaim another inundation. I
will ive, from Abdallatif, some account of the state of Egypt this year,
—be ieving his to be the only detailed history we have of such a season
in Egypt; and certain that every one must feel interest in having pre-
sented to him such a proof of the blessing that Joseph was to the nation
of his time, in preserving them from such horrors as a single year of
drought inevitably brings, when no preparation is made for it. I shall,
however, omit the most horrible and disgusting details, as occasioning
more pain than they would be worth to us in this place, though they
could hardly bespared from their own.

“ Under these circumstances,” says Abdallatif,‘ “ the year presented
itself as a monster whose wrath must annihilate all the resources of life,
and all the means of subsistence. There was no longer any hope of a
further rise of the Nile; and already therefore the price of provisions
had risen: the provinces were desolated by drought; the inhabitants
foresaw an inevitable scarcity; and the fear of famine excited tumul-
tuous commotions among them. The inhabitants of the villages and

" Relation de l’Egypte, Livre 11. ch. 2.

