Instr. , 5! 3

of its houses were already occupied with trays of silk worms. We
saw it to no advantage, it being enveloped in mist this evening, and
damp and dreary with mountain rain in the morning. We encamped
on a stretch of grass near a large walnut-tree, from whose old roots a
stream leaped in a pretty water-fall. The peOple were very handsome,
and we saw a good deal of them, as they gathered about us, and lost no
opportunity of peeping into the tents. When the wind went down in
the evening, I stole out, and sat on a wall in the shadow, to see what I
could of this new world. The handsome women, with the becoming
ﬁllet on the forehead, were talking in the light of the ﬁres; the last gust
had parted the mists, and the depths of the gorges began to appear,
while two glorious planets were going down behind a western ridge—
the lighted tents looked warm under the spreading walnut-trees; and
the guard were patrolling on the outskirts of the camp. We missed
much of the peculiar beauty of Eden ;- but I shall not forget what we
did see there.

The next day, May 8th, was to take us to the coast. We were to
encamp within the sound of those breakers whose white line we had
discerned from the summit of Lebanon. We had been advised to go
down by the gorge of the Kadesha to Batman, instead of pursuing the
ordinary road towards Tripoli. There could be no doubt of the superior
beauty of the route by the gorge; but our adviser had forgotten that we
had loaded mules with us; and that for such there was no proper track.
We had so many delays from this cause, as to give us a most fatiguing
day’s ‘journey. We were in the saddle eleven hours; but we did not
regret our choice of route.

We took a guide from Eden, who seemed to be highly pleased with
his engagement. He spoke to every one we met, and hailed all the
men at work in the ﬁelds,and all the women who were gathering leaves
in the plantations; and the name Batroun was in every speech; but he
did not always know the way, and twice, at least, led no wrong. At
the outset, a thick mist came down upon us, and thoroughly wetted us.
The road was a rough track, which sometimes failed as altogether; and
where it -did not, it was the most rugged we had met with, except one“
or two passes in Arabia. In the steepest part, where it was a mere
staircase of rock, where I kept my seat only because the water was
rushing down ankle deep, my more made too long a step, and slipped
on her knees; and at the moment, the crapper of my saddle broke—of
course, the saddle fellover her neck, and I over her head. No one was
with me but the guide; and he was in such consternation, that his only
idea was to hold us both in our actual position till the rest of the party
came up. There was no mischief done but the spoiling of the comfort
of my saddle, and that I twisted my ankle slightly, and tore my skirt to
strips. We went down through the midst of terraced mulberry-planta-
tions; and between walls where there was no room for the laden mules
to pass; so that we were delayed while the fences were sufﬁciently
pulled down to make a passage. When we came to narrow ways be-
tween ﬂat-roofed houses, the spectacle was ver amusing. Our people

got upon the roofs, and lifted up the burdens o ~the mules high enough
83

