142 smart ms.

She is the Protectress of Osiris, covering his corpse with her wings.
This is a beautiful representation of her, and one which I was never
tired of meeting. Sometimes she is nursing Horus. But her most
important oﬁce is that of colleague of Osiris in the judgment of the
dead. From her, in this ofﬁce, the Greeks directly derived their
Hecate; her oﬂice beiu not only the same, but her name standing
inscribed, at this day, “ sis, the potent Hekte.”* As the bringer to
judgment, she is sometimes called the Giver of Death, and crowned
with the asp. Herodotus says that the Egyptians regarded Isis as the
greatest of all the divinities.1' lt might be so in his age: and her fesn
tivals, as witnessed by him, were no doubt very majestic: but there is
no reason to believe that in an older time she was so much honored as
the deities who represented a higher Ideal.—The heifer was held sacred
to Isis; and no heifer was ever permitted to be slaughtered in Egypt.:t
The young Horus, her infant, was adapted by the Greeks and called
Harpocrates, and made the god of silence by his ﬁnger being on his lips.
The E ptian “Hor,” however, seems to signify childhood, in the
sense 0 entrance or re-entrance upon life: of production or reproduc-
tion.§ In Hades, he appears seated on a lotus, before the throne of
Osiris, and in front of the candidate for jud ment. He is the child, or
new life, of the region beyond the tomb. he lotus, on which the child
is seated, is reproductive in a singular manner, as Payne Knight tells
us,H—by.new ﬂowers springing from seeds which could not escape

from their sheaths. Isis is perpetua I of the
lotus: and the lotus pillar, common 6 inds es-
pecially at Philue. It is a remarkal Knight,
that Isis, with Horus on her lap, i: um, and
also in ancient Muscovite worship: :r for a
symbol of worship, or idol.1l The Disa is
symbolized also by a pyramid, with 1 .ife (the

most sacred of E ptian symbols) on the apex." now me ancient faiths
and their symbo became spread over the world, from the Ganges to
Yucatan, is a question too deep and wide for us to enter on here: but
if any portion had a better chance than another of diffusion by the in-
tercourses of men, it was such as related to Osiris, Isis and Horns;
not only by their congeniality with universal ideas, but by means of
the concourse of strangers who for man centuries came in pilgrimage
to these holy islands of Biggeh and hilua; at one time the most en-
lightened spots in the known world.

, The most interestin part to me of this beautiful group of temples
was a chamber reached from the roof, always retired and somewhat
diﬂicult of access, which represents the death and resurrection of Osiris.
This chamber is nearly over the western adytum, forming an upper
.story of the Holy Place. Here is sculptured the mourning of Osiris,

" Wilkinson’s Ancient Egyptians, IV. 367, 369, 384. 1' Herod. II. 40.
Larcher. Note on Herod. II. 41.
Wilkinson’s Ancient Egyptians, IV. 407. '
ll Inquiry into the Symbolic Language of Ancient Art and Mythology—Classical
Journal. 1i Ibid. " Ibid.

