336 Imus ma.

that came in between. We were coming down upon the Gulf of Aka-
ba. The breeze blew cool upon our faces, and the whole company
grew merry. To see both shores of this Gulf of Akaba, where the
ﬂeets of Solomon and Jehoshaphat used to ride; to be actually gazing
upon the farther Arabian shore, gave us a kind of new sensation of
where we were; a truth, says my journal here, “which our daily com-
fort rather blunts the sense of.” On the shore, the wind was strong;
and we went behind a glaring yellow rock to lunch. Our noon-tide
rest had now stretched out from twenty minutes to an hour, on days
when we found good shade. Sometimes I could not keep awake for a
single minute after alighting, but fell into a state more like stupor than
sleep, however hungry I might be—a consequence, I think, more of the
excessive light than the heat, and more perhaps of the camel-riding
than either. Today, however, in the fresh wind, I was wide awake;
and I vividly remember the pleasant hour under the rock, with chi-
bouques and conversation.

The remainder of the day’s journey was easy-—trotting over hard
tracks on the sea-beach for about three hours. Here we might push
on, without troubling ourselves about the baggage and the rest of the
caravan. We could not miss our way, and there was no danger from
Bedoueens as far as we knew, So two of us rode forward, passed the
baggage train, and decided on our resting-place. It was where a palm
sprang out of the sand, and some bushes growing near told of fresh
water. Beside this palm, and close upon the sea, was our own tent
pitched; and down I went, with Mrs. Y., to bathe, under a little thicket
of bushes near our tent. There was nobody to threaten us with sharks;
the sands were soft; the water was warm (73°); the blue sea, with its
white ripple, was like a lake among the surrounding high shores; and
the sunset light was gorgeous on the double range of opposite Arabian
mountains. The Gulf was here about fourteen miles wide.

In the morning, we were eager to be off again along the shore; and
before six, when the dawn was growing into daylight on the sheeny sea,
three of us were trotting merrily ahead of the caravan. As I looked
back from the ﬁrst promontory which turned us into the sea,I saw the
troop scattered along the beach, and the last baggage camels pacing out
from among the bushes about our camp. Sometimes in the bays we
had to go slowly over ﬁelds of sand; sometimes to cross the promontories
by sleep paths or shelves in the rocks; and oftener, to enter the water,

iding our camels as usual; for the water was as clear as the air. At
ﬁt we were brought to a stop, where we agreed that there were two
roads, if any. The promontory before us jutted out too far to make it
prudent to take the water without guidance; and there was besides
only a stony wadee which looked as if nobody ever had passed through
it, or ever would. So we made our camels kneel, and waited on our
saddles. Others who came up did the same, till we were a curious
kneeling arty. Bishara passed us at length, and led the way up the
stony wa ee. We little knew what we were entering upon; and if
any one had told us that it was the pass to Wadee Negabad, the words

