noses AT HOUNT srmr. 331

within this, and very small,the Holy of Holies. The coverings which
formed the ceiling and walls of these chambers were embroidered with
ﬁgures of cherubim, as theceilings and walls of Egyptian temples had
sculptures and paintings of heavenly creatures. If we may take the
description in the lst chapter of Ezekiel as the Hebrew idea of cheru-
bim, nothing can be more like the lion-headed, hawk-headed, ox-head-
ed, winged images in the Egyptian sculptures. As in Egypt, the
wood-work of the sanctuary was of the acacia (shittim wood) which
grows abundantly in the wadees about Sinai, as about the shores of the
Nile; and the overlaying of this wood with gold was an old Pharaonic
practice. It is probable that much of the preparation was done by the
hands of Egyptian artisans who migrated with the Hebrews.

In the oldest Egyptian temples, before Abraham was born, the pur-
poses and rites of the inner tem le chambers were the same as in the
Tabernacle at Sinai, and in the erusalem Temple, up to the day when
its priests ﬂed before the soldiers of Titus. Throughout all these ages,
the Holy of Holies was in the highest sense a sanctuary. No one en-
tered it but the most privileged of the priests. and it contained nothing
but the symbol of the presence of the god. 1n the Egyptian temples,
this symbol was the shrine; a chest or closet, containing a sacred
pledge, and surmounted by an idol form on its lid or top; that idol form
being often guarded by winged creatures, two of the wings stretching
upwards, and two covering their bodies—as Ezekiel describes. The
guardian hawk and ibis, and the wings of Isis Protectrix precisely re-
semble this description; and, indeed, the ark of the Hebrews is ex-
actly the Egyptian shrine, with the omission of the idol ﬁgure in the
Mercy-seat. When carried by poles on the shoulders of priests, habit-
ed much like those of Egypt, trumpeters leading and following the
procession, with their rams’ horns at their mouths, as on occasion of
.the summons of Jericho, nothing can be imagined more like the sculp-
ture on the walls at Medeenet Haboo, where the shrine, priests, and
trumpeters make a part of the coronation procession.

The Sacriﬁces offer more points of resemblance than perhaps any
other part of the institutions of Moses. The oblations or gifts were
the same, and the libations. The Hebrews brought cakes, meal, wa-
fers, and wine. turtle-doves and young pigeons, exactly as we see that
Egyptians brought them in days when no Hebrew had yet entered the
Nile Valley. Swine were abhorred by the Egyptians as the tenements
of evil spirits, from the earliest days. The practice of the sacriﬁcer
laying his hands on the head of the victim, and confessing his sins,
thus charging the head with imprecations, is precisely what Herodotus
relates“ as the Egyptian practice; and so is the immolation of the red
heifer. If the Egyptian animal was not entirely red, if a single black
or white hair was found upon it, it was rejected, because Apis was
black, and Typho red.1’ The Hebrew sacriﬁce was to be “ a red heifer,
without spot. wherein is no blemish, and upon which never came
“yoke”: “ In the Thebaid,” says Sir G. Wilkinson, “ the sheep was

‘ Herod. II. 39. 1' Larclter‘s note on Herod. II. 39. I Numbers XIX. 2.

