maa—snnoos. 123

struggling combatants. We have here the same subjects, and the,
same deity, as at Aboo-Simbil. Ramases the Great consecrates his
victories to the god Ra, whom he calls his patron, and after whom he
is named Ra-mses.—-The corridor or portico is faced with four Osiride
pillars. Throu h it, we enter the rock part of the temple, and ﬁnd
ourselves in a all supported by six square pillars. The walls are
sculptured over in “intaglio relevato,” as it has been called ;—that is,
the outlines are cut in a groove, more or less deep, and the relief of the
interior rises from the depth of the groove. The walls are now stained
and blackened; and they have a mouldering appearance which por-
tends speedy defacement. But the king and his captives, and his lion
and his enemies, and his gods and his children, are still traceable. Over
the lion, which seems a valuable auxiliary in the battles of Ramases,
and which is here seizing a captive, is written an inscription which says,
according to Champollion, “ the lion, servant of his majesty, tearing his
enemies to pieces."-—Champollion found here a valuable list of the
names of the children of Ramases, placed according to their age and
rank. In the small temple at Aboo-Simbil, the king has his am at his
feet, and his wife has her daughters, with their names and titles in-
scribed. At this temple of Dirr, the list is apparently made complete,
there being here seven sons and eight daughters, with declarations of
their names and titles. - '

The adytum is small. The four ﬁgures which it once contained are
gone: but their seat remains, and “their marks against the wall. Two
dark chambers, containing some imperfect sculptures, are on either
hand; and this is all. This temple is twenty feet deeper in the whole
than the small one at Aboo-Simbil, but it is inferior in workmanship.

On our return to the dahabieh, we saw a sight very'rare to us now;
-—a cloudy sky. The sky looked angry, with its crimson ﬂushes, and
low hanging ﬁery clouds. 1 We found the people angry too,-—upon a
subject which makes people elsewhere strangely passionate,—a cur-
rency question. The inhabitants of Dirr have only recently learned
what money is, having traded by barter till within a very short time.
They had this evening some notion in their heads which our dragoman
and Rais thought absurd. about a change in the value of money in the
next trading village; and they came down to the bank clamoring for
more money for their mats and necklaces. When all explanation and
remonstrance failed to quiet them, Alee snatched up a tub, and threw
water over them: and then arose 8, din of screams and curses. We
asked Alee what the curses were: they were merely the rational and
safe hope that we might all die. . ‘

The crimson'ﬂushes faded away from the sky, and the angry clouds
melted: but we had now no moon except before breakfast, when we
were glad to see her waste daily.

There was another temple in waiting for us the next morning (Jan.
91h)—another- temple of the Great Ramases;—that of Subooa. The
novelty here was a very interesting one; the Dromos (Course or avenue)
and its sphinxes.

The temple is about ﬁve hundred yards from the shore; and a few

