PALESTINE AND ITS FAITH.

CHAPTER I.
ENTRANCE UPON THE HOLY LAND.—HEBRON.—BETHLEHEM.

Tm: ﬁrst thought or impression which I remember as occurring on
my entrance into the Holy Land, was one of pleasure that it was so
like home. When we came to towns, everything looked as foreign as
in Nubia: but here, on the open hills, we might gaze round as on a
multitude of familiar objects, and remember to whose eyes they were
once familiar too. Never were the rarest and most glorious ﬂowers so
delightful to m e es as the weeds I was looking at all this day ;—tbe
weeds of our {edges and ditches and ﬁelds; forI knew that in his
childhood He must have played among them; and that in his man-
hood, he must have been daily familiar with them. If his family and
that of John were related, and if the family of John lived at Hebron,
the probability is strong that Jesus may have been in the very district
through which we traveled this day. 80 general as were the habits
of travel among the Hebrews, and so often as the men had to come up
to Jerusalem to the feasts, it is scarcely likely that relatives should not
visit each other when so near as Jerusalem is to Hebron. So I already
saw that vision which never afterwards left me while in Palestine,—of
One walking under the terraced bills, or drinking at the wells, or rest-
ing under the shade of the olives: and it was truly a delight to think
that besides the palm and the oleander and the prickly pear, he knew,
as well as we do, the poppy and the wild rose, the cyclamen, the hind-
weed, the various grasses of the way-side, and the familiar thorn. This,
and the new and astonishing sense of the familiarity of his teachings,—
a thing which we declare and protest about at home, but can never ade-
quately feel,—-brought me nearer to an insight and understanding of
what [had known by heart from my infancy, than perhaps any one
can conceive who has not tracked his actual footsteps. But it is too
soon to enter on this now.

We entered Palestine at the close of the rainy season, which ordina-
rily ends with March. A few drops of rain fe l to-day, and the wind
was cold. In about an hour from the frontier, we came upon a m r
bit of ploughing ;—the ﬁrst cultivation we had seen for some wee s.
Then there was more, on a better soil, and some cross-ploughing, with
a rude antique-looking plough, and a camel. The soil was reddish,

