Tunes. 57

turn, we spent eight days at Thebes; eight days of industrious search,
which make'us feel familiar with the whole circuit of monuments.
But the ﬁrst impression remains unimpaired and undisturbed. I rather
shrink from speaking of it; it is so absolutely incommunicable! The
very air and sunshine of the moment, the time of day, the previous
mood of mind, have so much share in such a ﬁrst impression as this,
that it can never come alike to any two people. I can but relate what
the objects were; and that most meagerly. \

The wind was now carrying. us on swiftly; and as we, of course,
stood as high as we could, on the roof of the cabin, the scene unfolded
before us most favorably. Every ridge of hills appeared to turn, and
every recess to open, to show us all sides of what we passed. To our
left. spread a wide level country—the eastern expanse of the plain of
Thebes, backed by peaked mountains, quite unlike the massive Ara-
bian rocks which had hitherto formed that boundary. There was a
thick wood on that bank; and behind that wood Alec pointed out to
us the heavy masses of the ruins of El Karnac. Vast and messy, in-
deed, they looked. But, as yet, the chief interest .was on the western
shore. The natural features were remarkable enough—the vastness of
the expanse, especially, which confounded all anticipation. The mo-
dern world obtruded itself before the ancient—the shores dressed in the
liveliest green, and busy with Arabs, camels, and buffalo, partially in-
tercepting the view behind. Between these vivid shores, and before
and behind 'the verdant promontories, lay reach after reach of the soft
gray, brimming river. Behind this brilliant foreground stretched im-
measurable slopes of land, interrupted here and there by ranges of
mounds or ridges of tawny rocks, and dotted over with fragments of
ruins, and teeming with indications of more. In the rear was the no-
ble guard of mountains which overlooks and protects the plain of
Thebes: mountains now nearly colorless—tawny as the expanse be-
low; but their valleys and hollows revealed by the short, sharp shadows
of noon. The old name for this scene was running in my head—“ the
Lybian suburb ;” and when I looked for the ediﬁces of this suburb,
what did I not see ? I could see, even with the naked eye, and per-
fectly with the glass, traces of the mighty works which once made
this, for greatness, the capital of the world. Longrows of square
apertures indicated the ranges of burying places. Straggling remains
of building wandered down the declivities of sand. And then the

meséum was revealed, and I could distinguish its colossal statues.
fad next appeared—and my heart stood still at the sight—the Pair.
here they sat together, yet apart, in the midst of the plain, serene
I: and vigilant—still keeping their untired watch over the lapse of ages

majestic as this Pair has been conceived of by the imagination of Art.
Nothing even in nature certainly ever affected me so unspeakably; no
thunder storm in my childhood, nor any aspect of Niagara, or th

and the eclipse of Egypt. 1 can never believe that anything else s:/

great Lakes of America, or the Alps, or the Desert, in my later years. -”

I saw them afterwards, daily, and many times a day, during our stay
at Thebes; and the wonder and awe grew from visit to visit. Yet no

