118 amen ma.

variety. The offerings are of piles of cakes and fruit, lamps, vases of
various and graceful shapes, and ﬂasks. The lotus, in every stage of
growth, is frequent. Sometimes it is painted yellow, veined with red.

The boat, that wonderful and favorite symbol which we meet every-
where, is incessantly repeated here,—the seated ﬁgure in the convolu-
tion at how and stem, the pavilion in the middle, and the paddle hanging
over the side. One of these boats is carried by an admirable procession
of priests, as a shrine. which is borne on poles of palm-trunks lashed
together. Stone deewins run round the walls of most of these little
chambers. We could ﬁnd no evidence of there being any means of
ventilating these side-rooms; and how they could be used without, we
cannot conceive,—enclosed as they are in the solid rock.

The second and smaller hall has four square pillars, sculptured, of
course. Next comes the corridor, which has a bare unﬁnished little
chamber at each end, now possessed by bats. The altar in the adytum
is broken; and some barbarous wretches have cut their insigniﬁcant
initials on it. Are there not rocks enough close by the entrance, on
which they might carve their memorials of their precious selves, if
carve they must? But this profaning of the altar is not the worst.
One creature has cut his name on the tip of the nose of the northernmost
colossus: others on the breast and limbs of the Osirides; and others
over a large extent of the sculptured walls.

One of the four god ﬁgures in the adytum is Ra, who also occupies
the niche in the facade over the entrance. Ra is the Sun. He is not
Amun Ra, the Unnutterable,*—the God of gods,—the only god: but
a chief, as the term Ra seems to express. Phra, (Ra with the article.)
by us miscalled Pharaoh, means a chief or king among men: and Ra
is the chief of the visible creation : and here, in this temple, he is the
principal deity, the others being Khem, or Egypt, Kneph, Osiris and
Isis. As we go on, we shall perhaps be able to attain some notion of
the relative ofﬁces and dignities of the gods. At the outset, it is neces-
sary to bear in mind chieﬂy that the leading point of belief of the
Egyptians, from the earliest times known to us, was that there was
One Supreme,—or, as the said,—one only God, who was to be
adored in silence, (as Jamb ichus declares from the ancient Hermetic
books,) and was not to be named: that most of the other gods were
deiﬁcations of his attributes; while others, again, as Egypt, the Nile,
the Sun, the Moon, the West, &c., were deiﬁcations of the powers or
forces on which the destiny of the Egyptian nation depended. We
have also to remember that we must check our tendency to suppose
Allegory in every part of the Egyptian system of theology. It is difﬁ-
cult to check this tendency to allegorize, bringing as we do the ideas
of a long subsequent age to the interpretation of a theological system
eminently symbolical to its priests, though not to the people at large :
but we must try to conceive of these Egyptian gods as being, to the
general Egyptian mind, actual personages, inseparably connected with
the facts and appearances in which they were believed to exist. If

' Manetho says that Amun-means “concealment."

