856 um“ LIFE.

ever, remains. One curious circumstance is, that the arch of a recess
in the innermost chamber has been built through to the back. This,
and the lateral chambers, had a second story; whereas the vestibule
appears to have sprung to the roof.

We now observed so many piers and otherwise unaccountable pro-
jections in the *embankments of the water-course, as to make us sup-
pose the river to have been covered in—the whole water-course vaulted.

While here, my eye was caught by an appearance of large gratings
in the face of the western rocks; and we climbed up a rough and
steep s10pc to examine them. They remain wholly mysterious to us
all. Small, shallow, irregular holes are cut in the rock at such dis-
tances as to leave a tolerably regular grating; and many of these holes
—-so many as to indicate that all were formerly thus treated—are ﬁlled
up with stones, of a different grain from the rock, cemented in, so as
to form a rough surface. The only conjecture I could form is not a
very probable one—that this was done to procure a reliable surface to
work upon—to be afterwards covered with stucco—the rock being here
extremely friable. High up on this western face was what the gentle-
men unanimously declared to be an inscription—but it was impossible
to get nearer to it, to make out the character. Speaking of inscriptions,
I fear we all overlooked one Captain Mangles tells of, on a tablet under
a pediment of one of the temples, the character of which, Mr. Bankes
declared, and proved by comparison with his notes, to be precisely the
same with that of the mysterious inscriptions in 'Wadee Mo‘katteb, and
round the base of Horeb. This is an observation of so much import-
ance, that we must hope the next European who visits Petra will look
for this tablet, and bring home a copy of its character. In a cave fur-
ther north than the western precipice. I found the base of a column;
but, as there was none to answer to it, nor any trace of others within
the caverns, this was pronounced to have been placed there by some
“ accident.”- _

The Shaikh was troublesome this evening about our not going on,
though he had said at Akaba that we might stay a-month at Petra, if
we liked. We were informed that our bread and ale were all con-
sumed; and that the water was half an hour 05', so that'we had to pay
two piastres for every skin that was brought. We were provided with
biscuits and a little porter; so we did not think of moving the sooner
for the,had news.. .

On Sunday, the 2lst, after service, we set 06' for the temple of El
Deir. In describing the view from the summit of Mount Hor, Captain
Mangles says,‘ “In the midst of this chaos of rocks, there rises into
eight one ﬁnished work, distinguished by profuseness of ornament, and
richness of detail. It is the same which has been described as visible
from other elevated points, but which we were never able to arrive at.
It bears N.E. half N. from this spot; but the number and intricacy
of the valleys and ravines which we hoped might have led us to it,
baﬁled all our attempts. N 0 guide was to be found. With the assist-

' Travels in Egypt, 8m, Chap. VIII.

