mt run. 505

they do! Would they lie down. and die? or would they, like these
peeple, build themselves houses of stone or mud,and make coarse and
rude tools of the wood and stone of the mountain, and prepare terraces
on the bare uplands, and grow fruit and mulberry leaves for barter, and
grain for their own food? And what Would not these Syrian peasants
say of their good fortune, if they had at hand bays of the sea swarm-
ing with ﬁsh, and large tracts of soil wanting nothing but labor to make
it fruitful? It was strange and painful to think of these things: but yet
there was some encouragement, too.’ When I saw what could be done
by a willing and laborious peasantry in such a district as this, it seemed
impossible that Ireland should not easily support her people when a
new generation sets to work in“ earnest, like the inhabitants of these
Syrian mountains. As we rode away frOm Ain Fijji, the people
about the camp attended ustill we were fairly off on the road,and then
offered us a blessing such as Christians rarely meet with from Moham-
medans. They cried after us, “God be with you !”

The bridge of El Souk, two hours from Ain 'Fijji, is in a beautiful
pass, where the rocks approach so as to leave only a strip of green on
either side of the ‘Barrada. These rocks have not only holes, supposed
to be sepulchral, but tablets or panels which, though uninscribed, tell a
curious tale. Their presence here is a mystery. The little brid e
lightly spans an emerald-green fall of the river: and the tufts of shru
along the grassy banks 0 the. stream are beautiful. A conduit is out
in the rocks ;' and it crosses the stream with the bridge. A local tra-
dition declares this conduit to have been made by a woman: and the
learned of course suggest that this woman may have been Zenobia.

We followed the Barrada to a beautiful waterfall, among the shrubs
to the left of our track; and then we withdrew a little, crossing a long
stretch of table land, and seeing the quiet and now lessening stream
through all its windings up to Zebdany, near which it takes its rise.

Zebdany is halfway between Damascus and Baalbec: but for three
miles before reaching. it, it was difﬁcult to believe we were not in Eng-
land. Ithought at least that this must be one of the districts where
English capital, managed by English agents, is invested: but I could
not learn that it was so,——such scenes of British enterprise lying fur- ‘
ther to the north. We entered upon lanes ;-—home-like lanes, with
ditches on either side, and hedges of blackthorn, elder, sycamore,
brambles, hawthorn, nearly out, and briar roses. The gates were like
ours: everything was like home (for the lanes were even muddy) ex-
cept that there were vines and mulberries in the fields, where with us
there would have been apples and hops. There was nothin tempting
in the village. As in duty bound, we inquired, as ordered [by preced-
ing travelers, for Adam’s tomb: and the people took us to the ceme-
tery! We climbed to the upper story of a house, to see some Syrian
silkworms. They were-in trays: very small as et; and as disagreea-
ble as they are everywhere else.——Our tents had, gone forward mean-
time: we rode after them, over hill-tracks, for three hours more, pass-
ing a village where the houses were built of loose stones, and no longer
of mud; and at length saw our tents pitched in a beautiful dell, beside

