Paras To PALESTINE. 367

the gentlemen cut one for me, from among the low, stout trees which
grew near. But one of the guides was carrying his cobbous, which
he was desired to lend me, as more convenient on account of its handle.
The cobbous is a stick with a very peculiar handle, which makes it
precisely resemble the Power symbol of the Egyptian gods, and which
is like no other staﬂ' that I know of. The Arab, otherwise a very
obliging man, was evidently reluctant to make the exchange, even as
a loan: and for two days,during which I carried his cobbous, he never
lost sight of me. He kept near my camel, and hung round the tent,
and looked in, to point to the stick, and sent me messages to remind
me that it was only lent, and to ask when he should have it again:
and he would not exchange it for anything whatever. I was disposed
to think, from observation of him, and of the two or three others who
carried the cobbous, that it was their symbol of Power or dignity; and
then I exchanged sticks with him again, to his evident relief. He was
like another man when he had snatched his cobbous, and hugged it
once more.

The rest of the day’s journey was a continued and pretty steep
descent, for an hour and a half, into the plain; and we encamped in
Wadee Araba. The mountains showed every variety of hue that we
had seen in the Peninsula. One black mass rose beautifully out of
the sands on our left; and while I was admiring it, my eye was caught
by our tents, ready pitched at the foot of one of its spurs, and beside
the shrubs of a water-course which bounded our camp on the other
side. I was not sorry to ﬁnd we were so near our resting-place, for
my camel had been very troublesome by lying down, whenever my
attention wandered from my rein. The animal had had an easy day's
work, as I had not mounted till after noon. Though it had cropped
at every bush we passed,I was not fully aware how far the poor beast
was exhausted with hunger.——We had notice from the Sheikh this
evening that we must be stirring early in the morning.

0n the 25th, our journey lay through.the wadee;—plain riding,
sometimes among shrubs, where our camels made a very inconvenient
rush at the tamarisk twigs, and were always trying to lie down. To
avoid the irksomeness of this, I walked the greater part of the way,
sometimes over water-courses so muddy as fairly to daub my boots ;—
a sign that rain had been here too. I saw three large ﬂocks of wild
geese, which ﬂew round and round in apparent confusion; and some
of the company observed a herd of gazelles afar. It was so hot that
we waited an hour for luncheon, rather than sit down where there
was no shade. In half an hour after remounting, the Sheikh wanted
to encamp; but we began to think we should never reach Jerusalem
at! this rate, and rode on. I happened to be foremost of our company,
and I thus came in for a ﬁne sight.

As usual, ten armed guards were in the van, and the sheikhs were
pushing their horses hither and thither. The scouts had ascended a
sandhill, in advance, and a little to the right: and it was plain that
there was a commotion there. Hasan, the Sheikh second in dignity,
galloped up, rose in his stirrups, shook his spear, ﬂung away his turban,

[If U

