120 sass-m urn.

on living divine person es. We may ﬁnd symbols everywhere in the
Egyptian theology; an analogies in abundance: but I do not know
that any instances of complete or- continuous allegory can be adduced.
When we try to construct such, or think we have found them, we pre-
sently begin to complain of an intermixture of personages or of ofﬁces,
such as should shew us, not that the Egpytian worship was confused,
but that we do not clearly understand the ideas of the worshipers, and
must have mixed them with some of our own. _

Kneph, known by his Ram’s head, is, as I said, in the adytum with
Ra; but, though a higher god than, Ra, this temple is not dedicated to
him, but to Ra, as is shown by the appearance of the latter on the
facade“ The deeds of the great Ramases, his adorer, are brought as
an oﬂ'ering, and presented on the walls. There appears at ﬁrst some-
thing incongruous in the mingling, in these temples. of the benign
serenity of the gods with the fury and. cruelty of their warrior wor-
shipers; but one soon remembers that it is an incongruity which
remains to this day, and will doubtless remain till war is abolished. _ A
custom so durable as that of consecrating warfare 'to God must have an
idea at the bottom of it: and the idea is plain enough here. We ﬁnd
the same idea in the mind of this Ramases, and of Moses in his Song
of deliverance, and of the Red Indian who shakes the scalps of his
enemies at the end of his spear in his war-dance, and of the Crusaders
in their thanksgivings for victory over the Saracens, and of our Crom-
well in Ireland, and in the vindictive stanza of our National Anthem ;-—
the ideathat power to conquer is given from above, and that the results
are, therefore, to the glory of him who gives the power. Such a
”method of observance, being natural in certain stages of the human
mind, is right in its place ;—in a temple of Ramases, for instance.
The wonder is to ﬁnd it in the jubilations of Christian armies, in the
dispatches of Cromwell,‘ and even in the Prayer-book of the English
Church, in direct connection with an acknowledgment of the Prince, of
Peace, whose kingdom was not of this world. ‘

One thing which struck me as strange in this hall of giants was a
dwarﬁsh statue, without a head. It measured two or three inches less
in each limb than our middle-size, and was of course very insigniﬁcant
among the Osirides. What it was, and how it came there, we could
not learn. * .

. When we looked abroad‘from the entrance, the view was calm and
sweet. A large island is in the midst of the river, and shows a sandy
beach and cultivated interior. The black, peaked hills of the apposite
desert close in to the south, leaving only a narrow passage for the
river.—It was nearly evening before we put off from the bank below
the temple. It had been an animating and delightful day; and [found
myself beginning to understand the pleasure of “ temple-haunting;” a

‘ Cromwell to Vice-Admiral Goodson at Jamaica—“ Make yourselves as strong
as you can to beat the Spaniard, who will doubtless send a good force into the
Indies. I hope, by this time, the Lord may have blessed you to have light upon
some of their vessels,—whether by burning them in their harbors or otherwise."—

C'mmmll’s Letters and Speeches, vol. III. p. 156.

