PETRA. ' 357

slice of the glass,‘ we made out the facade to be larger, to ail appear-
ance, than that of the temple at the eastern approach,” (the Khasne,)
“and nowise inferior to it in richness and beauty.” We were for-
tunate enough to reach this temple; and when we afterwards saw it, as
Captain Mangles did, from Mount Hor, we could welt imagine how
tantalizing it must be to a stranger to see it in no other way.

The ascent to it was formerly by a staircase winding up the mounn
tsin to the height of 1500 feet. We reached the foot of this staircase
by turning in among the Oleander thickets, past Pharaoh’s Palace, and
pursuing the northern ravine. We found the steps much worn away;
and we had to climb over many a slope of slippery rock: but it was
still a magniﬁcent avenue to a temple. It is well that there was no
question of material in the case: to get the workmen up there must
have been quite enough. The little ﬂights of steps cut for the worb-
men’s sake. to raise them to the summit of their work, had a singular
eﬂ'eet; and these seemed to throw light on the purpose of other short
and odd staircases, twisting hither and thither among other precipices.
I think no one feature of the region struck me so much.

The facade is a good deal like that of the Khasne; but El Deir is
even more unﬁnished. There is some preparation for wings, which
were never cut. There are disks where garlands were to be sculp-
tured; and pedestals, without. statutes or urns, and niches left empty.
Some of the party thought the capitals of the pillars were only half
sculptured: but I am' not sure that they were not meant to remain as
they are,-—a clumsy approach to the Ionic. There-was a curious
mixture of what we must suppose to be the native architecture with
the Roman; and the result is not at all beautiful. There is only one
chamber, which measures about forty-ﬁve by forty feet, and is nearly
forty feet high. It has an arched recess opposite the entrance; and the
stone mouldings of this arch were fastened on, and not chiseled out of
the rock. Some of these mouldings remain, and show how they came
there. We saw many instances of this attachment of stone decora-
tions; and everywhere, holes for the pins which had fastened them on.

From the ﬁne area in front of this temple, we climbed to another,
higher still, with nothing to remark upon in it, but a niche whose frame-
work was elaborately ornamented. Even here, on this pinnacle in the
deserts of Idumaaa, we encountered the eye-sore of travelers’ names!
Many were scribbled on the compartments of carved stone in this ex-
cavation.—On the platform before the entrance, we found the bases of
many columns. A eolonnade on this high perch must have had a sin-
gular, and perhaps a very ﬁne effect.

We mounted one stage more ;—to the summit over the top of this
temple: and thence we had a magniﬁcent view. El Deir was just
below, a yellow temple completely niched in red rocks. Its area,
grown over thick with lilies, looked well: but there was a more re-
markable one .near,—at a rather higher elevation, whose circle of hewn
stones and shrubs indicated very clearly that here had been a circus.
How was this possible, unless, as I was sometimes driven to suppose,
the people had wings? Fluted columns, covered thickly with cement,

