188 menus urn.

I
it being the sign of feminine subjects; but we ﬁnd pink and blue faces
also. The blue is probably appropriated, as elsewhere, to individuals
of the priestly caste. Emblematical animals abound here, and a row
of apes, not bareheaded, was so astonishingly like a set of Christian
judges as to send us into a ﬁt of most profane laughter. These queenly
tombs are in a desolate mountain hollow, with rocks towering over-
head :-1a ﬁt place for hiding away the pomps and vanities of the world.

We much enjoyed exploring two recently opened tombs ;-—one dis-
covered about ﬁve years ago; the other only a few months before; and
by Lepsius. Of the ﬁrst of these we thought highl ,—not only from
. the good execution of the animals, and the ﬁne effect 0 a phalanx of men,
but because the faces of homage and supplication were admirably given.
The colors were very gay, where not spoiled by smoke. The gayest
of all was the tomb opened by Lepsius. N 0 picture in this year’s ex-
hibition could be brighter. And the stucco was smooth, and the out-
lines clear as on the day when it was closed. The ﬁgures were all
women, I believe, in ﬂowing garments of white striped with red. As
for the ﬁnish of the painting, I observed an ibis which, while duly spi-
rited as a whole, had every feather separately painted, in light gray
outlines upon dark gray ground. This was more like a daguerreotype
picture than any other work of art I ever saw.

After visiting so many repositories of the dead where every resource
had been used to make them secure, and ample and sumptuous, it was
strange to pass by spots where the common people of those old days
were laid away. It was a doctrine of this ancient nation that all
Egyptians were noble: and they applied this so far as to consider every
one who was virtuous enough entitled to cross the dark water, and to
be laid in the sacred soil of the death region; just as we declare that
all men are equal in the presence of God,—that he has no respect of
persons, and that in his ﬁeld, the rich and poor lie down together. But
as, with us, the rites of a pauper funeral differ from those of a princely
one; as in the United States, the dark-skinned children of God are laid
apart from the whites, so here in this metropolis of heathendom, did
human weakness come in to mock the profession which human reason
had made. Not far from the royal valley of death are pits—hardly to
be called catacombs, where undistingnished mummies were laid. One
day, our attendants, always on the watch for treasure of one sort or
another, saw something which induced them to poke and dig; and
next ensued the extraordinary sight of disinterring mummies. These
bodies had probably been searched before for valuables; but they had
been buried away with some care, and probably for a long time; for it
was no easy matter to disengage them from the soil. We partly un-
rolled two: and even ventured upon removing the bituminous mask
which covered the face, which came away, bearing the impression of
not uncomely features.

While we were ﬁngering the curly brown hair of one of these mum-
mies, our dragoman cooly wrenched off the head, the throat giving way
like a fold of rotten leather. I never remember so strange a sensation
as in seeing this; but the thing was done before we could stop it.—

