394 EASTERN ms.

sive intermarriage, it was altogether Egyptian. except that it was not
necessary that the king should be chosen out of this caste, or should
pass through it.—Up to this time, and yet more remarkably afterwards,
there was constant and abundant intercourse between the Hebrews and
Egypt. Whether the monarchs were at war or in alliance, whether
the Egyptians came up against Jerusalem, or to march through into
Assyria, they were often in Palestine; and there seems to have been a
pretty constant inﬂux of Jews into Egypt, till they had, as we know,
ﬁve cities, and a great Temple to Jehovah in the very place where
Moses had sat to learn of the priests of Egypt. It is no wonder, there-
fore, that the Egyptian and Jewish priesthoods bore an almost exact
resemblance to each other, nor that we ﬁnd everywhere Egyptian
elements in the faith and philosophy of the Hebrews. ,

It is believed by the learned, that during two centuries and a half
after the full assumption of power by the priesthood under Jehoiada,
the four ﬁrst books of the Pentateuch were probably compiled from
existing documents and other means of knowledge; and that, ﬁnally,
the book of Deuteronomy was written, and brought out with the others,
in the time of Josiah,“ to work the greatest change in the religious
condition of the Hebrews, which had happened since they left Mount
Sinai. The books of the Law were then found in the Ark; in the
Ark which is declared to have been empty at preceding dates; and a
multitude of particulars in the books themselves prove, as biblical scho-
lars have shown, that they could not have been reduced to their pre-
sent form before the dates here assigned. For the consternation of
King Josiah, and the sensation excited among the people by the denun-
ciations against idolatry—especially the prevalent idolatry of the coun-
try—we need only refer to the history. Our business with the event
is to mark its effect on the Religious Thought of the nation.

From this time, the Hebrews became much more steady in their al-
legiance to Jehovah. They had now a recognized caste, to take charge
of their religious concerns ; an established ritual, which occupied their
thoughts and feelings, and trained them in habits of observance; and
they had a central place of meeting—a type of unity—before their
eyes. But under this system, though idolatrous vagaries were re-
pressed, the religious life of the people died out; as religious vitality
ever does die out from the hour when it becomes the charge of a priest-
hood. From this time, till Christ arose to free it from its trammels,
and revive its life, the religious sentiment of the nation wasted away
under the bondage of the Law, the formality of the priesthood, and the
sectarianism which inevitably springs up where the administration of
religion is appropriated by any body of men. This was the great cri-
sis in the mind of the Hebrew people—whatever crises remained for
their fortunes. Between the Exodus and the coming of Christ, there
was no other point of time which so aﬂ'ected their religious state. Hi-
therto they had hovered among the idolatries of the surrounding na-
tions, and had largely intermingled with some of them by marriage;

' A History of the Hebrew Monarchy, ch. ix.

