94 HAITI“ urn.

Arabia, to the abundance of corn which Lower Egypt aﬂ'orded.
Among these was Abraham, a man of such wealth and distinction that
he and his followers were entertained as guests at Memphis, and his
wife was lodged in the palace of the king. He must have looked up
at the Pyramids, and learned some of the particulars which we, follow-
ing on his traces, long in vain to know :—how they were reared, and
for what purpose precisely; and perhaps many details of the p

of the work. It is true, these pyramids had then stood somewhere
,about 1500 years: the builders, tens of thousands in number, had
slept for many centuries in their graves; the kings who had reared
them lay embalmed in the stillness of ages, and the glory of a supre-
macy which had passed away; and these ediﬁces had become so
familiar to the eyes of the inhabitants, that they were like natural fea-
tures of the landscape: but as Abraham walked round those vast
bases, and looked up at the smooth pictured surfaces of their sides, he .
might have had explained to him those secrets of ancient civilization
which we seek to pry into in vain.

We now come to the brilliant Third Period.

The Theban kings had been growing in strength for some time; and
at length they were able to rise up against the Shepherd Race, and
expel them from Memphis, and afterwards from their stronghold,
Abaris. 0n the surrender of this last place, the enemy were permitted
to march out of the country in safety,—the number of their men being
recorded as 240,000. The period of 1300 years now entered upon
was the grandest of Egyptian history,—if, we may add, the Sesostris
of old renown was, as some recent students have supposed, the Ra-
mases II. of this Period. Some high authorities. as Lepsius and Bun-
sen, believe Sesostris to have belonged to the Old Monarchy. How-
ever this may be, all agree that the deeds of many heroes are attributed
to the one who now bears the name of Sesostris; and the achievements
of Ramases the Great are quite enough to glorify his age, whether he
had a predecessor like himself or not. Of these achievements I shall
say nothing‘here, as they will come before us quite often enough in
our study of the temples. Suﬁce it that the empire of Egypt was ex-
tended by conquest southwards to Abyssinia; westward over Lybia;
northwards over Greece ; and eastwards beyond the banks of the Gan-
ges. The rock statues and stelaa of Sesostris may yet be seen in coun-
tries far apart, but within this range: his Babylonian captives were
employed on some of the great ediﬁces we have seen, and were after-
wards permitted to build a city for themselves near the point of the
Delta: and the tributary kings and chiefs of all the conquered coun-
tries were required to come up to Egypt once a year, to pay homage
by drawing the conqueror’s chariot, in return for which they received
gifts and favor. The kings of Lower Egypt appear to have declined
about this period; if even they were not tributary to those of Upper
Egypt. Of these kings, one was he who received Joseph into favor,“
and made him his prime minister; and another was he who after-

' Supposed sham I. o. 1706.

