mean "Toms. 89

CHAPTER IX.

HISTORICAL SKETCH, FROM MENES TO THE ROMAN OCCUPATION
' 0F EGYPT. ~

Barons entering upon the study of the Monuments, it seems neces-
sary to Obtain something like an orderly view Of the state of the coun-
try before and during their erection. At best, our conceptions must
be Obscure enough; but we can form none unless We arrange in our
minds what we know of the history of Egypt, of which these monu-
ments are at once the chief evidence and the eternal illustration.

The early history of Egypt differs from that of every other ex-
plored country in the nature of its records. Elsewhere, we derive all
our knowledge from popular legends, which embody the main ideas tO
be preserved in forms which are not, and were never meant to be his-‘
torically true. It is the business of the philosophical historian to
separate the true ideas from their environment Of ﬁction, and to mark
the time when the narrative, from being mythical becomes historically
true—to classify the two orders of ancient historians—both inestima-
ble in their way—the Poets who perpetuate national Ideas, and the
Historians who~perpetuate national Facts. With regard to Egypt, we
"are in possession of as much of this early material as any nation has
furnished; and we have the monuments besides.

These monuments consist of buildings or excavations—Of the sculp-
tures upon them—and Of their inscriptions. From the ediﬁces or caves
we may learn much of the condition, mind, and manners of the people
who wrought them, and, if their dates can be Obtained, in historical
order. From their sculptures we may learn much of the personages,
divine and human, about whom they thought most; and their inscrip-
tions are Of inestimable use in identifying these personages, and in de-
claring their dates. ' Being thus in possession of mythicallegends, Of
the writings of historians, and of ediﬁces and excavations covered with
sculptures and inscriptions, we are as well supplied with records of the
early history Of Egypt as we can probably ever be with regard to any
ancient maple; and better than we yet are with regard to any other
of the nations of the Old world. .

The legends relating to ancient Egypt are preserved in the works of
its historians. It is the business Of modern inquirers to separate them
from the true historical material, and to extract from them, where pos-
sible, the essential Ideas which they embody. '

The chief historians of Egypt are Hecatszus of Miletus, who was
at Thebes about half a century before Herodotus, and some fragments
of whose writings have come down to us :—Herodotus, from whom
we learn more than from any other :—the writer Of the book of Gene-
sis :-—Hecate:us of Abdera, from whose narrative extracts may be found

