Incl smn 'ro nuns. 335

how different a thing it is to travel through sand. But, about two
o’clock, we turned up among granite mountains again, and found our-
selves in a gorge, compared with whose summits, Sinai and Horeb ap-
peared almost insigniﬁcant. Every winding disclosed something ﬁner
than we had yet met with; and at last we came upon a scene to which
we remembered no parallel. We all knew Switzerland; and we all
agreed that not even there had we seen anything so magniﬁcent as this
Wadee-el-Ain,-—-the Valley of the Spring. Str Frederick Henniker
calls some of the Arabian scenery, “ the Alps stripped naked.” No
description could better convey what we now saw. The 'whole gorge
answered to my young imagination of the sterner parts of Greece; and
especially where a dribhing spring wetted the sands, and made small
pools where fresh grass sprang, and tall slender rushes, and a few
thick-leaved shrubs, and here and there a bushy palm. Deep shadows
were ﬂung across, and blazing sunshine poured down between. And
we had time to ﬁx in our minds the features of the scene; for the
camels paced hither and thither, to drink at the pools which they made
muddy for those behind. Presently, we proceeded more slowly still—
most willingly, for we felt we could hardly linger too long. As we
turned to the right into Wadee Weteer, we came upon a scene which
might also be called verdant. The asphodel and other plants, which
grew on perches and in crevices of the red rock, were of the liveliest
green, while tamarisks spread their sprawling growth in all nooks and
on many platforms. Not only did the camels stop to crop these tama-
risks: their drivers were seen at every bush, and in the midst of every
tree, gathering arms and laps full of twigs for their beasts. The white
sand under foot, the verdure skirting the mountains, and the precipitous
rocks, of a rich red hue. rising so as to narrow the sky, and to lessen
the glare to a pleasant light, ﬁlled us with a delight altogether new.
We wound along this pass for about three miles, and then encamped
in a spot, less superb than the closer parts of the gorge, but very ﬁne.
It was on a platform in a neck of the pass, where the wind came freely,
and at night blew strong. We were guarded all round by solemn bar-
ren mountains, behind whose ridges the stars went down early. I lay
on the sand to watch them, though warned of scorpions; for the heat
within the tent was not to be borne. till night. 1 observed here the
largest locusts I ever saw; two huge, hard, black locusts, each perched
in a bush, and not moving while it was light enough to see them.
Some of the company amused themselves with making a bonﬁre at
night, in spite of the wind, and kindly invited us to the fun; but I
preferred the solemn steady starlight.

The 13th was a glorious day. We made a long journey, every step
of which was beautiful. Before six we were on our way, proceeding
along the. gorge of Wadee Weteer till my eye was caught by a soft
vision of I did not know what. Ata distance, a line of heavenly hues
crossed the opening of the pass, so soft in contrast with the strong lights
and forms of the foreground, as to make me doubt for a while whether
what I saw was earth or sky. It was the range of eastern Arabian
mountains, as was presently shown by the little angle of deep blue sea

l

