m am. 269

roughly Eastern picture. All the while, romping, kissing and scream-
ing, went on among the ladies, old and young. At ﬁrst,I thought
them a perfect rabble; butwhen I recovered myself a little, I saw that
there was some sense in the faces of the elderly women. In the midst
of all this fun, the interpretess assured us that “there is much jealousy
every day ;” jealousy of the favored wife ; that is, in this case, of the
one who was pointed out to us by her companions as so eminently
happy, and with whom they were romping and kissing, as with the
rest. Poor thing! even the happiness of these her best days is hol-
low: for she cannot have, at the same time, peace in the hareem and
her husband’s love.

They were so free in their questions about us, and so evidently
pleased when we used a similar impertinence about them, that we took
the opportunity of learning a good deal of their way of life. Mrs. Y.
and l were consulting about noticing the bride’s dress, when we found
we had put off too long: we were asked how we liked her dress, and
encouraged to handle the silk. So 1 went on to examine the bundles
of false hair that some of them wore; the pearl bracelets on their tat-
tooed arms, and their jeweled and inlaid pattens.—In answer to our
question what they did in the way of occupation, they said “ nothing ;”
but when we inquired whether they never made clothes or sweetmeats,
they replied “ yes.”—They earnestly wished us to stay always ; and
they could not understand why we should not. My ease puzzled them
particularly. I believe they took me for a servant; and they certainly
pitied me extremely for having to go about without being taken care
of. They asked what I did: and Mrs. Y., being anxious to do me. all
honor, told them I had written many books: but the information was
thrown away, because they did not know what a book was. Then we
informed them that I lived in a ﬁeld among mountains, where I had
built a house; and that I had plenty to do; and we told them in what
way: but still they could make nothing of it but that I had brohght the
stones with my own hands, and built the house myself. There is
nothing about which the inmates of hareems seem to be so utterly
stupid as about women having anything to do. That time should be
valuable (to a woman, and that she should have any business on her
hands, and any engagements to observe, are things quite beyond their
comprehension. .

The pattens I have mentioned are worn to keep the feet and ﬂowing
dress from the marble pavement, which is often wetted for coolness.
Ithink all the ladies here had bare feet. When they left the raised
ﬂoor on which they sat, they slipped their feet into their high pattens,
and went stumping about, rather awkwardly. I asked Dr. Thompson,
who has admission as a physician into more houses than any other
man could familiarly visit, whether he could not introduce skipping-
ropes upon these spacious marble ﬂoors. I see no other chance of the
women being induced to take exercise. They suﬁ'er cruelly from in-
digestion,—gorging themselves with sweet things, smoking intempe-
rately. and passing through life with more than half the brain almost
unawakened, and with scarcely any exercise of the limbs. Poor things!

