235 name: an.

on purpose to the places where they were likely to happen: chance
only made us witnesses of them': for, far from seeking them, we gens-
rally avoided the sight of them, so great was our horror of such things.
Those, on the other band, who were in the house of the magistrate, to
be present at these tragic scenes, saw cases of this sort, of every kind
and degree, all day and all night long.” .' . . .

“This frightful calamity which I have just represented, extended
over all Egypt: there was not a single inhabited spot where the prac-
tice of eating human ﬂesh did not become extremely common. Syene,
Kous, the Faioum, Mahalleh, Alexandria, Damietta, and all other parts
of Egypt, were witnesses of these scenes of horror.—A merchant, a
friend of mine, a man on whom one may rely, told me, on his return
from Alexandria, many facts of the nature of those which I have re-
lated, which had passed before his own eyes; and the most remarkable
thing that he told me was that he had seen ﬁve childmn’s heads in the
same boiler, prepared with exquisite spices. And now, here is enough
on this part of the subject, upon which, though I have enlarged a good
deal, it appears to me that I have been very brief.”

He then gives an account of the murders on the river and the rude;
and continues:

“ As for the number of the poor who perished from hunger and ex-
haustion, God alone knows what it was. What we shall say of it must
be regarded only as a slight sketch which may convey some idea of
the fearful excess reached by this mortality. One thing of which I
may speak as having seen it myself, at Misr, at Cairo, and in the neigh-
boring places, is that wherever one went, there was not aspot in which
one’s feet or one’s eyes were not encountered by a corpse, or a man In
the agonies of death, or even a great number in this dreadful state.
Day by day, from one hundred to ﬁve hundred dead bodies were taken
from Cairo, to be carried to the place where they might have funeral
rites. At Misr the number of dead was incalculable. They were not
buried, but merely cast out of the town. At last, there were not enough
living left to carry away the dead, and they remained in the open all“.
among the houses and shops, or even in the interior of dwellings. You
might see a corpse falling to pieces in the very place where a cook 01'
a baker, or other tradesmen, was carrying on his business.

“ As for the suburbs and villages, all the inhabitants perished, except
a small number, of whom a portion quitted their abodes to go some-
where else. We must scarcely except from what I have now said the
capitals of the provinces, and the largest villages. . . A traveler often
passed through a large village without seeing a single living inhabit-
ant. He saw the houses standing open, and the corpses of those who
had lived there stretched out opposite one another—some decayed, and
some recently dead. Very often, there was a house full of furniture.
without any one to take possession of it. What I am now saying has
been communicated to me by several persons whose narratives con-
ﬁrmed each other. One of them said as follows :—* We arrived at a
village, and there found no living thing, on the earth or in the 931'-
Having entered the houses, the state in which the inhabitants ap

