158 smut urn.

built,)—or presenting the child to the . Nothing can be more dis-
tinct than the features of the queen, w en seen in the full light, on the
outer walls; and they are no doubt to be taken as a portrait, as the
ediﬁce was her own work. The face is very charming; the features
small, and not at all after the Greek type; and the expression girlish
and simple,—-like that of the ancient [sis and Athor. We obtain here
an impression something like that which we derive from the pictures
of Mary Queen of Scots: a conviction of the general resemblance, with
no recognition of such extraordinary beaut as we read of, but a sense
that the charm might be all that we are tol when the soul was at work
among those features.

We see how the little Caesarion is committed to the guardianship,
even to the nursing of the od of HermwthiHhe Amun Ra of Thebes
here presented under the arm of the bull Bash, or Basis—which has
characteristics distinguishing it at once to the eye from the bull A is.
In one place we see the bull suckling—that is sustaining—the Chlld;
and over the principal gate there is a sculpture of the bull bearing
Casarion between his horns, while a decorative margin is formed by
four copies in small of the same group of Cleopatra with the child on.
her knees. There is a profusion of ornament throughout the building,
but it is of a low style of art—about, however, to give place to a lower
—for this is, of course, the last work of the Ptolemies, who now gave
place to the Romans.

 

4.
CHAPTER XIV.

THEBES.—EUROPEAN TRAVELERS AND NATIVE ARABS.—T’HE PAIR.
—THE RAMASEUM—ELKURNEH.

1“ last we were at Thebes—in the afternoon of this Tuesday, the
19th of January. We were very happy, for there was no hurry. 'On
either hand lay the plain of Thebes, and before us there was leisure to
explore it. We stayed eight days—giving ﬁve to the western bank and
three to the eastern. We made, we thought, good use of our time, ex-
ploring daily as much as we could without plunging ourselves into too
much fatigue and excitement. What the excitement is can be known
only to those who have spent successive days in penetrating the recesses
of the palaces, and burying themselves in the tombs of the Pharaohs,
who lived among the hundred gates of this metropolis of the world be-
fore the Hebrew infant was laid among the nests of the Nile water-fowl.
Perhaps some hint of what the interest of Thebes is, may be derived
from such poor account as I am able to give of what we saw there; but
I shall tell only what we saw, and nothing of what we felt. That can
be spoken of nowhere but on the spot.

This ﬁrst evening we attempted nothing beyond a little stroll on the
shore at sunset. The ﬁrst thing we saw was a throng of boats—ﬁve
English ﬂags and one Russian. Some were just departing, and others

