ram m non-r. W‘

offered us an exact picture of what God says in this passage of the
Karin : We have mowed them all down, and exterminated them. We
saw the inhabitants of each house extended dead, the husband, the wife,
and the children. From thence we went to another village, where we
were told that there had been till new four hundred weaving shops;
and it presented to us the same scene of desolation as the ﬁrst. We
saw the weaver dead in his loom-pit,‘ and all his dead famil round.
him. I was here reminded of that other text of the Karine e sin-
gle cry was heard, and they all perished. We then proceeded,’ says
the same person, ‘ to another village, where we found things just in the
same state; no creature living, and the inhabitants having all become
the prey of death. As we were obliged to remain there, in order to
sow the lands, we had to hire people to carry away the bodies, and
throw them into the Nile, at the rate of a piece of advert for every ten
bodies. At last,’ added this person, ‘ the wolves and hymnas succeeded.
to the inhabitants, feeding on their carcases.’ *

“This is one of the most remarkable thin which I myself saw,"
continues Abdallatif. “As I was one day, In com any with several
other persons, in a place which overlooked the Nile,t ere passed before
our eyes, in the course of one hour, about ten corpses, swollen and"
puﬂ'ed up. likewater-skins ﬁlled with air. We saw them by chance,
not. having directed our attention that way, and without commanding
from our station the whole breadth of the Nile. The next day, being
in a boat, we saw on the canal and on all the banks, scattered limbs
like—to use a comparison of the poet Amrialka'is—' the roots of bulb-
ous plants which have been drawn out of the ground.’ I have heard
of a ﬁsherman of the port of Tennis who saw pass near him, in a sin-
gle day, four hundred corpses which the waters of the river carried
with them to the sea. ‘ ,

“ Ascending to the testimony of a great number of witnesses, the
road between Egypt and Syria was like avast ﬁeld sown with human
bodies; or rather, ike a plain which has just been swept by the scythe
of the mower. It had become as a banquet-hall for the birds and wild
beasts which gorged themselves on their ﬂesh; and the very dogs that
these fugitives had taken with them, to share their exile, were the ﬁrst
to devour their bodies. ‘

“The inhabitants of the Hauf,” (a district to the east of the Nile,
below Cairo.) “ when they retired into Syria to ﬁnd pasturage, were
me ﬁrst who perished upon this road; long as it is, it was strewn with
their corpses, like locusts which have been broiled” (by the ﬁres lighted
to smoke them down); “ and to this moment, some use yet perishing
there. The emigration transported some to Mosul, to Bagdad, to-the
countries of Korasan, of the Greek empire, of Africa, and of Yemen;
and they were dispersed into all parts. It often happened that, among

‘ See p. 80.

1' The value of these “pieces” of gold and silver has varied largely; but Mr.
Lane, in his notes to the “ Arabian Nights,” advises us tosuppose them to average,—
the piece of gold, half a guinea or ten shillings, and the piece of silver about six-
pence.

