422 mamas mi.

and exact no perquisites; and that the soldiers should cherish peace
among their neighbors and contentment in themselves. The practice
with which the prophet sanctiﬁed the resolutions of the penitent was
also eminently Essene. It was common among all the Jews tohaptize,
—proceeding upon the words of their Prophets,—-“ Wash you, make
you clean; put away the evil of your doings from before mine eyes :"‘
—“then I will sprinkle clean water upon you, and- ye shall be clean:
from all your ﬁlthiness, and from all your idols will [cleanse you ;”l‘-4
in literal obedience to such teachin s, all the Jewish sects practiced
baptism: but none with such care ant? observance as the Essence. The
precepts and the practice were not new: but, given out now by a devout
young prophet, worthy of the wild olden time, and at a season when
every Hebrew mother looked upon her infant son as possibly the Mes-
siah, there was abundant reason why the talk at eventide should be of
this John. In the course of ten .years, the curiosity and interest must
have somewhat subsided; but yet must, on the whole,-have been the
chief topic of the time. Many households, and a multitude of indi-~
viduals, had no doubt reformed themselves, and were waiting, in the
spirit of faith and the practice of purity, for the coming of a greater than
the prophet. With these the interest would be quy kept alive. And
the opulent citizens of the distant towns, passing this way to Jerusa-
lem at the time of the Feasts, would stop to learn how they might ﬁnd
the new Prophet, and would return, grave because he had told them to
give of their wealth to those whoihad none. The tax-gatherers, en-
countering him in their rounds, would depart rebuked, and hear the
whisper among the people that the days for paying tribute would soon
be over, when the Messiah should have driven 'out the Romans, and
established his own kingdom upon Zion. And Herod’s soldiers must
have passed this way, going to and from Fort Machcerus on the Dead
Sea; and the exhortations to them would become known, and would be
gratefully remembered b the rural inhabitants whom soldiers are wont to
oppress. And the prop at himself would be seen at times, even in this
fertile and peopled district. The cultivator, going out early to watch his
ﬁeld, in dread of the locust-swarm, now that the south-wind was strong,
ﬁnding his fears too just, would see the prophet lighting his ﬁre of green
wood, to bring down the locusts, and save the neighboring crops. And
at noonvday, when the bees are all abroad, and man seeks the shade,
the wayfarer, resting in the woods, would see the'anchoritebusy with-
drawing the honeycomb from the hole of an old sycamore; and the two
would draw near, and take their noon-tide meal together, and converse
of him who should come: and then, before night, how far Would every
word be known that the prOphet had said! Again, he must pass by
this way to some of the stations on the Jordan where he was wont to
baptize: and, though he had been occasionally seen for ten years, none
could carelessly let him pass by. ‘

At last, among the many who were allowed carelessly to pass by,
among the peasants and artisans who inquired at this place where John

' Isaiah I. 16. 1' Ezekiel XXXVI. 25.

