264 IABTBBN use.

less enviable, at Meklteh. This fellow is allowed by government two
camels, and whatever he wants for the journey. He is keeper of the
cats; about which cats we could learn nothing, except that an old wo-
man used to carry a camel load of cats in pilgrimage; and we suppose
the Sheikh of the camel has taken them in charge.

The next part of the procession interested me the most. The guard
rode two and two. These soldiers were in shabby, sometimes tattered
clothing; which was their badge of honor. Their clothing testiﬁed to
their activity and their hardships, during the three months that they had
acted as escort to the expedition: and they were now going to the cita-
del, to receive new dresses. Several camels, adorned with little ﬂags,
small tufts of feathers, and housings embroidered with cowries, were
among and behind these soldiers: and that was all.

Our asses were held in readiness for us to mount, and follow the
procession to the citadel, which we did without difﬁculty, though the
streets were crowded. We fell in with almost all the Frank travelers
in Cairo, making a pretty large and very conspicuous group, and a
curious rear guard of the procession of the Mahhmil. It was here,
when for an instant riding in single ﬁle, that I met with the insult I
mentioned: and [really did not wonder at it; and could not resent it,
putéing myself in the place, for the moment, of a devout Moham-
me an.

The ﬁnest part of the sight was now to come. In the midst of the
vast area before the citadel, soldiers were drawn out in three sides of a
square; music brayed; cannon were ﬁred; and cavalry dashed about
in the way which I had often read of, but had not, up to this moment,
seen. Such horsemanship is really a great sight, as l afterwards occa-
sionally felt in the Desert. It is no more like the best riding we see in
England than the swiftest run of a greyhound is like the trot of a cat,
or the ﬂight of a swallow is like that of a chicken. We have not room
for Arabian riding in England, if we had all the other requisites. It is
not every horseman who can get access to Salisbury plain, or a race-
course, or a long stretch of hard and smooth sea-shore.—Amidst the
noise of the cannon, the music, and the multitude, Abbas Pasha, the
grandson of Mohammad Alec, took the rein of the camel of the Mahh-
mil, and led it hither and thither and away. It was a spirited and
beautiful sight.

I have been so often asked since m return whether I saw the Ma-
gician at Cairo, that I suppose I he better say what I know about

im, and what I saw him do.—Some gentlemen in our hotel (Hotel
d’Orient) told us that they had engaged the Magician for the evening
of this Monday, the 22d. It was permitted to our party, and to some
other English in the hotel, to be present. The Magician did not come:
and on being questioned the next morning, he excused himself on va-
rious grounds; but it plainly appeared at last that he was afraid to
come ;-afraid of being browbeaten and laughed at by the Franks, and
of having his fee taken from him (he said) by the people in the inn-
yard.' He was promised civil treatment and earnest attention while
with us, and special protection home after the séance. Moreover, an

