EBDRAELON. 457~

It is Elijah the Tishbite.“ Yew—Elijah often passed over this Be-
drae'lon ;—sometimes to Damascus; sometimes to Mount Carmel, and
along the course of the Kishon: and once he came upon the news that
the king and queen, Ahab and Jezebel, had enlarged the grounds of
their new palace at Jezreel, here at hand, by taking possession of a
vineyard which they had coveted, and procured at length by false
accusation and murder. We cannot tell which of the ﬁelds now
spreading about the village once called Jezreel was Naboth’s vineyard;
but in surveying the scene, the eye cannot miss it, though it cannot
identify it. . ’

Here, soon after, came another general, driving in his chariot over
the plain. He was a great man, fortunate in every thing but health:
but what was all his prosperity to him while he was a eper'l How
earnest was his desire for relief is shown by his taking the word of
“a little maid” of his wife’s, a Hebrew girl, and coming all the way
from Damascus to Samaria, in hope of cure. And when he had found
his cure in Jordan, and had returned to Samaria to give thanks to
Elisha, he was passing home to Damascus again, over this plain, when
Gehazi overtook him, and obtained a gift by fraud. It might have
been somewhere within sight that the Syrian general “lighted down
out of his chariot” to meet the prophet's servant. ‘

If Gehazi did here a mean and fraudulent act, his master soon corn-
mitted a deed of recklessness and vindictive cruelty for which no re-
probation can be too strong. He sent by this way a young prophet,
in search of Jehu, with a message, as from Jehovah, the object of which
was to avenge the wrongs of the prophets on the posterity of Ahab,
the patron of the priests of Baal. Hither came the young prophet,
with his loins girded, and the box of oil in his hand,‘l‘ with which he
was to anoint Jehu for his savage ofﬁce. And hither soon came Jehu,
breathing vengeance and slaughter, and murdered the young king who
came out to meet him; and then the royal mother, at her own palace;
and then above a hundred of the royal race; and ﬁnally, the whole
multitude of the priests and worshipers of Baal. They are like an
any of ghostly victims, hauntinlg the plain.

ere, in a later time, did the gyptians destroy one whose life was
of inestimable importance, and whose death remains a mystery. The
Egyptian monarch Necho had no enmity against Josiah; and he told
him so. Necho was coming up against Damascus, and had no desire
to make enemies along his road: but Josiah, for some unknown reason,
attacked him on his way ;-—possibly from fear of the Egyptian power,
if it should be established to the north-east, as well as the south-west
of his dominions. Here he came out against the Egyptians upon this
plain,—after witnessing the completion of the great work of elaborat-
ing and prepounding the Law; and recestablishing the Passover: and
here “the archers shot at king Josiah; and the king said to his ser-
vants, Have me away; for I am sore wounded.”1 And they took him
to Jerusalem, where he died.

' 2 Kings, I. 8. 1' 2 Kings, IX. 1. 1 2 Chron. XXXV. 23.

