'rnn‘ manna. 217

spirited as to be almost as good to ride as horses. To-daywe once
more came in sight of that curious sign of civilization—shaven don-
keys. Dark rings were left round the legs, and'the neck and hind-
quarters were shaven. The scarlet housings and gay rider made a
set-out very unlike what one sees of donkey-riding at home. [was
not aware till I came to Egypt how dependent a donkey is on dress.
Our ﬁrst adventure was being carried on men’s shoulders over a
muddy pond which stopped the way. We knew that our plague to-
day would be from the multitude of country people who would obtrude
their services upon us. At this pond the teasing began. Our drago-
man met it vigorously. by trying to throw a pertinacious fellow, bigger
than himself, into the water. It was a desperate scuffle, such as would
make ladies shriek and ﬂy in England; but it came to nothing, as
usual. All the rest of the way, men joined us from the ﬁelds on
either hand, till, when we arrived at the sand, our train was stvelled to
fort . e
, Iywas surprised to ﬁnd myself disappointed in the Pyramids now,
when it had been precisely the reverse at a distance. Instead of their
growing larger as we approached, they became less and less wonder-
ul, till~ at last they exactly met one’s preconception, except in being
rougher, and of a brighter tint. The platform on which the largest
stands is higher than our reading had iven us to suppose; and the
Second Pyramid, which 'at a distance 100 s as large as the other, here
sinks surprisingly. This was to me the strongest evidence of the
magnitude of the Great Pyramid. Though I have spoken of disap-
*pointment on a near approach, these mighty objects were perfectly ab-
sorbing, as a little incident presently proved. One of our party said,
on our arrival, “when we were passing the Sphinx ,” “O! the
Sphinx l” cried I. , “ You don’t mean that you have seen the Sphinx l”
To be sure they had; and they insisted on it'thatl had too; that I
must have seen it—could not have missed it. I was utterly bewilder-
ed. It was strange enough to have forgotten it; but not to have seen
it, was inexplicable. However, on visiting it, later in the day, I found
I had seen it. Being intent on the Pyramid before me, I had taken
the Sphinx for a capriciously-formed rock, like so many that we had
passed—for etting that I should not meet with limestone at Geezeh.
I rather don t whether any traveler would take the Sphinx for anything
but a rock unless he was looking for it, or had his eye caught by some
casual light. ~ One other anecdote, otherwise too personal for print, will
show how engrossing is the interest of the Pyramid on the spot. The
most precious articles of property I had with me abroad were two. ear-
trumpets, because, in case of accident happening to them, I could not
supply the loss. [was unwilling to carry-my trumpet up the Pyra-
mid—knocking against the stones while I wanted my hands for climb-
ing. So I left it below, in the hands of a trusty Arab. When I joined
my party at the top of the Pyramid,l never remembered my trumpet;
nor did they; and we talked as usual, during the forty minutes we
were there. without my ever missing it. When I came down. I never
thought of it; and I explored the inside, came out and lunched, and

 

