mama. 135

This temple is believed to have, stood on the site of an older one,
from some ancient memorials being found on a few of the stones em-
ployed: but the existing building was begun in the reign of Augustus,
carried on by some of his successors, and never ﬁnished—As it was
the largest temple in Nubia, the Christians naturally laid hands on it;
and a saint, and several halos look out very strangely from among the
less barbarous heathen pictures on the walls of the room within the
outer hall. , l ' .

This evenin we descended the rapids of Kalib’-sheh‘, and had left
the tr0pic: an: a cold, blewing evening it was.-—Early next morning,
the three pylons of ,the Dabéd temple—its distinguishing feature,—
stood out clear on their sandy platform. These pylons are almost the
only interesting thing about this temple,- which is of . the time of the
early Ptolemies, and carried on by Au ustus and Tiberius. It never
was ﬁnished; and now its massive wa ls are cracked and bending in
all directions. The soil below seems washed or actually grabbed out,
so as to endanger the mass above. ‘ .

There is a mummy-pit in the brow of the bill, a quarter of a mile
behind. I went to see what the little clouds of dust meant, and found
some men and boys pulling out human legs and arms for our ratiﬁca-
tion. Iwas much better pleased with the view I obtained rom the
next ridge, whence I saw to the south-west the sandstone quarries
which furnished the material for the temple. The recesses and pro-
jections of the stone looked as sharp cut as ever.

We were now only six milés from Philtn, where we were to remain
twenty-four hours. After posting up our journals, we had enough to
do in admiring the beauty of the scenery, which we had seen before
only in the vagueness .of moonlight. I think the ﬁve miles above
Philm theth beautiful on the Nile, and certainly the most varied,—
with the gorges among the rocks, the black basalt contrasting with the
springing wheat and the yellow sands, and the dark green palms ;—
and soon, Philo: opening on the sight, and its hypaethral temple, (built
to look beautiful from hence,) setting up its columns against the sky:
and allthis so shut in by coves and promontories, and the water rendered
so smooth by its approach to the dam of the islands, as to make of the
whole an unique piece of lake scenery. Two mosques, a convent, and
a sheikh’s tomb on a pinnacle of the rock, gave character to the scene:
and so did a woman on the shore, with her veiled face and water-jar,
reminding us that we were re—entering E ypt Proper. I could not
bear to miss any part of this approach to Philoe; and I therefore carried
my dinner up to the deck, and received all that singular imagery,
never to-lose it again while I live. A

At four o’clock we were close upon Philce : but the island of Big-

eh, also sacred, looked tempting, and we turned towards it, to explore
its remains before sunset. The black rocks round show inscriptions in
great numbers : and these are full of light and interest. Some are of
the Pharaohs of a very early time; actually inscribed b the tributary
kings who reigned at Thebes during the dominion of t e Shepherds;
and others of the great monarchs who drove out the Shepherds, and

