214 man ml.

their reverence for the mystery of Life—the ultimate fact in nature to
us all—treated with serious care its sole manifestation to them and to
us—the organization of sentient beings.

If the Egyptians ventured upon a step further back than the fact of
Life, and assumed it to be a divine particle ﬂowing forth from a self-
existent and sole eternal Being, to ﬂow back into its centre on the death
of the body, it is clear that no line could be drawn between the hu-
man being and the brute, as to the reverence in which the sentient
frame was to be held.-—It is true, the Egyptians worshiped no human
beings; and they did pay religious observance to some brutes. They
called their monarchs and great men “ ods,” explaining that by this
they meant to dignify men whom the gods favored with intercourse and
special protection: but they paid no reverential honors to them, as they
did to brutes. This seems to have arisen from their reverence for In-
stinct; which does truly answer to the original idea of inspiration; and
is so acknowledged among all such primitive people as those who hold
madness and idiotcy sacred. The original idea of inspiration is, exer-
cise of mind without consciousness. Thus, the highest order of genius
is with us the nearest approach to inspiration; and among primitive
and inexperienced nations, it is the unconscious and involuntary action
from ideas which is seen in the idiot Highland child, or the lost Indian
Fakeer, or the half-knavish, half-foolish Arabian derweesh; or, in old
times, the magnetized utterer of the oracles, or the spontaneously-pro-
phesying seer. The instinct of animals comes under this head, or ap-
pears to do so. It appears to be action of mind unattended by conscious-
ness; and it might well, therefore, be taken for inspiration: and every
action of the creature would then be watched for guidance, and every
incident connected with it he accepted for an omen. It is as easily
conceivable that the Egyptians, paying homage to beings above and below
Man, actually raised the brute with his instinct above Man with his
reason, in that one point of view which regarded his inspiration, as that
there are men now who look with greater awe upon an idiot or crazed
fanatic than on a rational person. In the old case, it was not the bruta-
lity, and in the modern case, it is not the folly, that is reverenced: it is
the mysterious working of mental faculty, apart from the will, which
appears to those ignorant of the powers and functions of the brain to be
(tihe communication of Ulterior Thought through an unconscious me-

mm.

We do not know what the Egyptians did with the bodies of animals
which they did not hold sacred. Abdallatif could ﬁnd no remains of
the camel, the horse or the ass: and on his inquiring of the old people
in the neighborhood of the Memphis mummy-pits, the hastened to
assure him that they had been struck by the absence 0 all traces of
these animals. This absence of all trace is curious in the case of ani-
mals which were not eaten.-—lt is no contradiction of the supposition
that the Egyptians reverenced brutes for the possible reasons mentioned
above, that they sacriﬁced some and ate others. In some cases they
chose for sacriﬁce anirnals which were hated by the particular Deity in
question: as in the case of the red ox. And in eating animals not dis-

