o
wsu. or noses—Jonnnsv To sum. 301

such an atmosphere adorns everything with the highest charms of color.
The light on the sides of the vessels, on the two minarets, and through
the shallow-waters, was a feast. The coral-shoals below, red and dark,
contrasted with the pale green above the sandy bottom.

It was one o’clock when we landed; and the whole caravan, pro-
visions and all, were gone on, without leaving word where we were to
stop. Our camels and dragoman were awaiting us; but neither food,
cook nor guide. Captain Linguist was delighted to improvise a lun-
cheon for us at his country-house, at the Wells of Moses. He showed
us his garden, which is well irrigated, and as productive as a garden
can be in such a place. He showed us the ancient wells, all shrouded
in bushy palms; and pointed out indications of moisture which en-
courage him to search for a fourth well. Of the three which .we saw,
one is built up with massive and ancient masonry. We were glad that
our kind entertainer had such a resource as even this place. When
weary with the solitude and irksomeness of his position, he comes over
here, and drives away blue devils with a gallop over the sand hills, and
plans of improvementabout his country-house. (The luncheon he gave
r us was extraordinary enough in its place to deserve mention. Here,
among these dreary sands of the Arabian shore, we had butter from
Ireland, ale from England, wine from Spain, ham from Germany,
bread and mutton from Cairo and Suez, cheese from Holland, and
water from Madras! Truly, the dwellers on the Red Sea may well be
advocates of free trade.—At half-past ﬁve mu. Captain L. helped us
to mount, and saw us on our way. \

 

CHAPTER III.
JOURNEY TO SINAI.

Tun heat was still excessive, and we were faint and fatigued at this
evening hour, when we should have been sitting down to rest; and our
whole day’s ride was still before us ;—a ride of twenty miles, as it
turned out. Yet I look back with singular pleasure to that ﬁrst Ara-
bian ride. We might go as fast as we liked, being free from the bag-
gage camels; and we were to ride as quietly as we could. So I put
my camel to a trot, and pushed on, to see what I could see in Arabia.
I looked out for Bedoueens on the hills; and many times I thought I
saw them: but it always turned out to be a round stone instead of a
man’s head, or some ﬁtful shadow on the slopes, instead of a crouch-
ing Arab. In only one instance do I believe now that I saw a spy
watching from behind a ridge. The large, glorious sun presently went
down clear behind the sands to our right; and just before, the full moon
had come stealing up behind the eastern ridge,—at ﬁrst a pale ghost,
soon to brighten to a golden orb. Then [was struck by the sheen on
the pebbly slopes, almost as bright as on water: and all the way I was
perplexed by the altered proportions of every object in such a place

