244 ass-ram: am.

over westwards to the Pyramids, or too far southwards, lest an array of
old Egyptian ghosts should marshal themselves on the horizon, and cast
a shadow of solemnity over his thoughts. He must also shake 06‘ any
considerate humanity which may hang about him, and avoid inquiring
what lies beneath what he sees, or thinking of any people but thme
whom he meets in the bazaars. A butterﬂy may enjoy a glorious day
in hovering about an array of ﬂower-baskets, not caring whether the
ﬂowers are growing or stuck into wet sand; and the stranger in Cairo
may have a short season of transport, if he will only take up with the
shows of things, and forget the roots.

The mere spectacle of the streets I relished more and more to the
last. As for the rest, I could not keep my heart and mind in abeyance
for many days; and before I left, I felt that there is hardly a spot in
whatl have seen of the countries of the world where I would not rather
live than in Cairo. The more I liked the Arabs, and the more I ad-
mired their gem of a city, the more impossible I felt it would he to live
there, for any other reason than a strong call of duty. The mere spec-
:jacle of the streets became, however, as I said, more bewitching every

ay.

After an early cup of coffee, we usually mounted our donkeys for .a
ride of two hours before the table-d’héte breakfast. I like donkey-
riding in Cairo. I never tried it out of Egypt, except for a few miles
in Palestine; but I do not suppose it is the same thing anywhere else.

The creatures are full of activity, and theiramble is a pleasant pace
in the streets. Side-saddles, more or less tattered, may be hired with
Cairo donkeys now. Mrs. Y. took her saddle from England, and I was
fortunate enough to buy one, in good repair, on my arrival at Cairo,
which would serve for either horse or donkey. The little rogues of
donkey-boys were always ready and eager, close by the hotel—hustling
each other to get the preference—one displaying his English with
“God save the queen ros bif;” another smiling amiably in one‘s face;
and others kicking and cuﬂing, as people who had a prior right, and
must relieve us of encroachers. Then off we went’briskly through the
Ezbekeeyeh, under the acacias, past the water-carriers, with their full
skins on their left shoulder, and the left hand holding the oriﬁce of the
neck, from which they could squirt water into the road, or quietly ﬁll
a jar at pleasure; past the silent smoking party, with their long chi-
bouques or serpentine nargeelehs; past the barber,shavin the head of
a man kneeling and resting his crown on the barber’s Etp; past the
veiled woman with her tray of bread—thin, round cakes; past the red
and white striped mosque, where we looked up to the gallery of the
minaret. in hope of the muezzin coming out to call the men to prayer;
past a handsome house or two, with its rich lattices, its elaborate gate-
way, and its shade of trees in front, or of shrubs within the court, of
which we might obtain a tempting glimpse; past Shepherd’s hotel,
where English gentlemen might be seen going in and out, or chatting
before the door; past a row of artisan dwellings, where the joiner, the
weaver, and the_ maker of slippers were at work, with their oriental
tools, and in their graceful Oriental postures—and then into the Mars.

