292 names! me.

little below Cairo, to the Red Sea, issuing at the bold promontory, Ras
Attaka. Dr. Kitto and other learned speculators on the question, dis-
trust the tradition which has named this the Valley of the Wandering,
and believe that it is the way by which Pharoah hoped to drive the
Hebrews back to the Nile. On this supposition, the Egyptian host
followed the Hebrews to the head of the gulf, and then southwards
down its western shore, till the great headland, Ras Attaka, stepped
their march, and there seemed nothing for them to do but to return to
Goshen by the Wadee-el-Tiheh, which opened to their right hand.

However this may be, it was by the Wadee—el-Tiheh that we quitted
the Nile, having the Djebel Attaka on our left hand, and a lower range
of hills on the right. The two routes are about equally good for tra-
veling purposes; and very good was the one we went by; hard gravel
for the most part, or a ﬁrm pebbly ground, over which uur attendants
walked with as much ease as our camels.—And how many scores of
miles did I walk in the desert, during those ﬁve weeks! I found, as
some others did, the motion of my camel more and more fatiguing and
disagreeable, all the way; and, being at home a great walker, Ihad re-
course, more and more, to my own feet,—little heeding even the heat
and thirst in comparison with the annoyances of camel-riding. I have
often walked from ten to ﬁfteen miles in the noon hours, continuously,
and of course at the pace of the caravan,—sometimes over an easy
pebbly track,—sometimes over mountain passes,—-—sometimes cutting
my boots to pieces on the sharp rocks; but always giving up when we
came to deep sand. Walking in deep sand in the Arabian Desert, at
noouday, is a true purgatory: but there is little deep sand. We did
not believe that more than oneoﬁfth of our Desert route was sandy.

As for the camel-riding,—I could not have conceived of any exercise
being so utterly exhausting. The swaying motion, causing an unin-
termitting pull upon one part of the spine, which can by no means be
exchanged for another, becomes at last perfectly intolerable, though
easy and agreeable enough at the outset.—I would never say a word
to encourage any woman to travel in the Desert, if she must do it on
the back of a camel. If she can walk as I do, well and good ; and I
am told it is easy and agreeable to go on a donkey from Cairo to
Jerusalem by the El Arish route. The footing is good enough for
asses and horses in the Arabian Desert,—as the beautiful riding of the
sheikhs may prove :—it is the want of water that is thetdiﬁculty. A
woman who can walk far and easily, and bear the thirst which is the
chief drawback on walking in the desert, may set out for Mount Sinai
without fear. I was so far from being injured by my Desert traveling,
that I improved in health from week to week, after having been very
unwell in Egypt. There is nothing to fear for a traveler who can
walk: but a woman who has no alternative, and must ride her camel
all the way, should consider well before she undertakes the journey.—
As for all palankeens, panniers, chairs and boxes,—they are wholly in-
sufferable, adding to the evil of the camel-pace, which cannot be got
rid of, pains and penalties of their own.

Walking in the Arabian Desert is made more easy than in any por-

