'rnn ans'rs. 175

ﬂew to the Lybian oasis delivered a similar command there from Amun
Ra. The story of the Theban priests to Herodotus was that two wo-
men, sacred to the god, were carried off from Thebes by the Phoeni-
cians, and set up oracles at the Oasis and at Dodona. They were
probably carried off for the sake of that power of provision which had
caused their-consecration at Thebes,'and which they exercised after-
wards at the two new Oracnlar seats. Herodotus says expressly that
there were no priestesses in Egypt :* yet it is certain that women of
the priestly‘ caste were, in one way or another, employed and conse-
crated. about the temples; and in all puri and honor. They were
probably the utterers of the oracle; and mtght be also the dispensers
of health in the sanctuaries. Among so large a body as that of the
Egyptian priesthood, it is probable that the re was never any want of
somnambules, who would be looked upon as chosen by the god of the
region to deliver his oracles; and who would do it, while the faculty
worked clearly (which we now ﬁnd to be rarely for any long time);
and without any need of jugglery at the time, or occasion to suspect it
now. Diodorus Siculus tells us of a d aughter of Sesostris who seems
to have had the faculty as eminently as Joan of Arc, exercising it with
regard to her father's victories as Joan did about her own. Her fa-
ther, being king, was also High-priest, and must have known how far
to trust his daughter’s divination: and he planned his proceedings, and
prepared for his conquests, under her directioml’ Herodotus observes
that this Theban oracle and that of Dodona are much like each others:
that the art of foretelling future events, as practised in the Greek tem-
ples, was derived from Egypt: and that it is certain that the Egyptians
were the ﬁrst of the human race who established feasts and public as-
semblies, processions, and the manner of approaching God and holding
intercourse with him: and that the Greeks had borrowed these cus-
toms from the Egyptians.

Every god had, as Herodotus tells us, a high-priest and several other
priests; each of whom is succeeded on his death by his son.§ The
principle of their sacriﬁces was to oﬂ'er to the gods what was hostile
or unacceptable to them ; so that the sacriﬁce, while a sign of homage,
was so through an act of vindictiveness. The animals oﬁ'ered were
usually those in which a wicked soul was, or might be su posed to be,
residing at the time. They laid hands on the head 0 the victim,
charged it with maledictions,l and then got rid of it as fast as possible.
If there were Greeks at market, the head was sold to them: if not, it
was thrown into the river. The hull Apis was, as everybody knows,
black, with white marks; the star on the forehead bein the sign of
its being an incarnation of the deityﬂ’ The bullocks o ered in sacri-
ﬁce were red, because Typho was supposed to be of that complexion :
and if the priests found a single hair on the animal which was not red,
they rejected it.“

' Herod. II. 35. Wilkinson’s Ancient Egyptians, I. 261.

I Herod. II. 58. Ibid. 37. I Ibid. 39.

1 Herodotus says ([11. 28,) “The Egyptians say that a ﬂash of lightning descends
from heaven upon her,” (die cow-mother of Apia) “ and that from this ray she con-
ceivesthepdApis.” "HerodJl38.

