rum or was Joann—noun or “marrow. 419

The descent was truly like a plunge into the tr0pics; and for two
days from that moment, we suﬂ'ered more from the heat than, I think,
during any part of our travels. The murkiness of the air was also
remarkable: not only a steaming heat, but a heavy thickness which
deadened the sun and the waters, and our spirits and breathing.
This increased much as We approached the Dead Sea, the next day:
but it was very perceptible from the moment we descended into the

lain. '“

p As [checked my horse on the summit, and looked over the plain, I
could not hel sending a searching gaze after the Jordan, though I well
knew that it ay below three terraces,—-“ down in a hole,” as a recent
visitor had told us. I could trace its course by the sinuous line of
wood: but'for the rest, I must wait another day.—There was another
stream to be visited ﬁrst. It may be remembered that, once upon a
time, “ the men of Jericho said unto Elisha, Behold, I pray thee, the
situation of this city is pleasant, as my lord seeth; but the water is
naught, and the ground barren:”* and it may be remembered how the
story goes on,—how Elisha healed the waters, that there should not be
from thence any more death or barren land: and that “the waters were
healed unto this day.” Another strip of woodland marked the course
of this spring of Elisha’s, about a mile, I think, from the base of the
hills we were on. Here we were to encamp. ‘

The descent was like an irregular stair-case: it was so steep that al-
most every one dismounted: but the heat was so excessive that I was
disposed to keep my seat if possible. When I glanced up from the
bottom, and saw the last of the party arrive on the ridge, and prepare
to begin the descent, it looked so fearful that I was glad to turn awa .

One of the most baseless traditions of the H01 Land adheres to t is
spot. The mountain immediately to our left in escending is supposed
to be the Mount of Temptation. It was probably ﬁrst ﬁxed upon from
its commanding the richest part of the country,—the best local examﬂe
of “ the kingdoms of the earth, and the glory of them.” This mountain
is called Quarantania. In its rocky face are square holes—the entrances
of caves: and hither“ come, every year, devotees,—some from a great
distanceg—to dwell for forty days in this waste place, barely supporting
themselves by such roots and herbs as they can ﬁnd. Some of these
caves are generally inhabited by the robbers who give such a bad name
to the district.

We had not traveled far over the sands and among the bushes of the
plain, when we saw our tents pitched in the most delicious spot, be-
yond all comparison, that had yet occurred for our encampment. Till
now, we had nowhere seen forest-scener . Here it was,—on the banks
of Elisha's streani,—now called Ain Sultan. The clear, rushing waters
ﬂowed away under the spreading branches of narled old trees; and
therewere thickets beyond, where the mules and horses could scarcely
force their way. The green and golden sheeted lights, and broad sha-
dows on the stream were to our eyes like water to the desert-traveler.
“ As You Like It" was in my head all day; for here was an exact re-

‘ 2MB. 19.

