EGYPTIAN concerns or was eons. 119

we make the mistake of supposing them merely the names of such
facts and appearances, and proceed to interpret them by the method of
allegorical narrative, we shall soon ﬁnd ourselves perplexed, and at a
loss: for our view of the facts and appearances of Nature can never'be
like those of the Egyptians, whose science, though unquestionably
great, lay in a different direction (for the most part) from ours, and
whose heavens and earth were hardly like the same that we see and
inhabit. ‘ ’

For one instance,—in their theory of the formation of the world,
they believed that when the formless void of eternal matter began to
part of? into realms, the igneous elements ascending and becoming a
ﬁrmament of ﬁery bodies, and the heavier portions sinking and becom-
ing compacted into earth and sea, the earth gave out animals,—beasts
and reptiles; an idea evidently derived from their annual spectacle of
the coming forth of myriads of living creatures from the soil of their
valley, on the subsidence of the ﬂood. When {we remember that to
them the Nile was the sea, and so called by them, and that they had
before’them the spectacle which is seen nowhere else, of the springing ‘
of the green herb after the separation of the waters from the land, we
shall see how diﬁ‘erent their view of the creation must be from any
which we could naturally form. In this particular case, we have
adapted their traditions given to us- through the mind of Moses; but
where we have not the mind of Moses to interpret them to us, we must
abstain from reading their meanings by any other light than that which
they themselves aﬁ'ord us. As another instance, how should we alle-
gorize For them about the West? What is the West to us? It is the
place where the heavenly bodies disappear: and that is the only point
we have in common with them. “With them, the West was the unseen

state. It was a dreary, unknown region beyond the dark river which
' the dead had to cross. The abodes of the dead were on its verge; and
those solemn caves were the entrance of the Amenti, the region of
judgment and retribution. Nothing was heard thence but the bark of
the wild dog at night; the vigilant guardian, as they believed, of the
heavenly abode which the wicked were not to approach.’* Nothing
was seen there but the descent of the sun, faithful to the goddess who
was awaiting him behind the hills ;‘I' and who, hanging above those
hills as the brightest of the stars, showed herself the Protectress of the
Western Shore. Such elements as these which they themselves give
us, we may take and think over; but if we go on to mix up with them
modern Greek additions about Apollo, and yet more modern metaphysi-
cal conceptions, in order to construct allegories as a key to old Egyptian
theology, we cannot but diverge widely from old Egyptian ideas. And
what is worse, we shall miss the perception of the indubitable earnest-
ness of their faith. We have every possible evidence of their unsur-
passed devoutness: but we shall lose the sense of it if we, get into the
habit of supposing them to have set up images of abstract qualities (as
abstract qualities are to us) instead of dwelling in constant dependence

' Wilkinson’s Ancient Egyptians, V. 435. 1‘ Ibid. IV. 388.

