naaaaw FAITH AT THE 13an or cnats'r. 396

so that for centuries they had been a mongrel peOple. Now,: all this
was changed. The Prophets had almost died out; the Priests and
Levites had risen; the Law included the whole people within a well-
guarded fold; and henceforth they were to be “ a peculiar people,” as
exclusive as they had hitherto been vagrant and careless. In this ex-
clusiveness they immediately began to harden; and what point of hard-
ness, of pride, and legality of worship they had reached by the time
of Christ’s coming, his history shows.

Now that there was a Law—a complete, tangible, recorded Law—
that body of men called Lawyers arose. Before this time, they were
never heard of. Now they began to study, interpret, and expound the
Law, and, in proportion as the nation became consolidated, they rose
to ﬁll the important place which, they held when Christ stood in the
Temple, six centuries after this consolidation of written memorials, and
perhaps oral tradition, from the time of Moses downwards, into a sys-
tem of statute Law. This origin of Rabbinism seems to have as much
connection with Egypt as the origin of the Hebrew faith, ritual and litera-
ture. As the author of the history above quoted says,‘ “ Ever since
the reign of Uzziah, the intercourse with Egypt had been steadily on
the increase; and the colonies of Jews and Israelites there were so
considerable, that the absentees in Egypt, and the exile‘s in Assyria,
are often spoken of in one breath, (which, indeed, we have seen in
Isaiah.) as though co-ordinate and almost commensurate. Although
Egyptian art, perhaps, was sinking, Egyptian learning must have been
at its height in Isaiah’s day; and wealthy Jews established in that
country, where all the trials before a judge are said to have gone on in
writing, would necessarily gain more deﬁnite ideas of the value of a
complete written body of statutes accessible to all. Communication
with the exiles in the cultivated cities of Assyria, must have had the
same tendency.” Here again we have that conjunction which, in re-
gard to religious matters, Moses so dreaded, and from which dread he
made of his people 3 Desert tribe for so long—the intermingling of the
Hebrews with the Egyptians on the one hand, and their eastern neigh-
bors on the other; and, according to our author, the Thought of these
different peoples was probably infused into the Law of the Hebrews,
no less than into their faith and their traditions. He says,’r “In the new
school there must have been very various minds; some disposed to
heathcnism and Egyptian mysteries, others simple as Moses; yet all
eager for Levitical aggrandizement.”

As it is the religious life of the nation that we are now glancing back
upon, it is not necessary to say more of the Captivity, than that when
the Remnant returned, they immediately placed themselves under their
own Law and ordinances, under the protection of Persia. They sought
their old homes, on their arrival, and provided necessaries for their fa-
milies, and then, a month after their return, assembled at Jerusalem,
reared an altar among the ruins of the “ beautiful House” which 80-

' A History of the Hebrew Monarchy, p. 319.
1' lbid., p. 319.

