namcus arm rrs smmons. 491

kind which we usually mean when we praise a city for beauty. The
interior ’of its best houses is exquisite; and the bazaars are ﬁner than
those of Cairo, and, as I am told, than those of Constantinople. But
the glory of El Sham, (as the Arabs call this beloved city of theirs,)
is in its position, which truly warrants all the raptures of all ages,
from the time when Abraham made Eliezer of Damascus his steward, .
till now.

Adjoining the gate by which we entered is a walled-up portal, with
two arches, now ﬁlled with masonry. This is the gate by which Paul
entered Damascus: and the street by which we went from this entrance
to our hotel, without a turn to the right or the left, is still called
“ Straight.” In a street to the right of this, as you enter the city, is
shown the house which is pretended to be that of Ananias; and in a
niche of a chamber therein is the apostle said to have received his
sight.-—In the city wall is shown the aperture through which he was
let down in a basket: and there is a tomb in the cemetery outside the
eastern gate, which was pointed out to us as that of Gorgias, the soldier
who, according to tradition, conuived at Paul’s escape, and was martyred
for it.

As we rode through the long street to our hotel, we saw the people
busy in bazaars which looked light and airy. They were selling fruit
and vegetables, making clothes, and a large quantity of baskets. The
people were everywhere civil to us. We should have looked fer this
civility as belonging to the manners of a capital city, but that the
Mohammedans of Damascus have a character for savage and cruel
bigotry, which certainly seems justiﬁed by their occasional persecutions
of the Jews;—-persecutions unequaled in barbarity in our times. On
arriving at the Italian hotel, we met two of our Desert comrades; and
one of them kindly gave up his apartment to Mrs. Y. and me, as he
was to depart the next day. This Italian hotel has been much vaunted
by some visitors to Damascus; and it was ludicrous to read on the spot
the descriptions with which English readers have been supplied of the
court-yard and apartments of this hotel. As for the court yard, we saw
no inlaid marbles, mosaic pavements, jets of murmuring fountains, gold
ﬁsh, and fragrant orange trees; but instead of these, we found rude
stone pavements, plaster walls daubed with red and blue: 3 deewin
somewhat repulsive in aspect, and two or three fig-trees. and some
pinks coming into ﬂower about the tank. As for the apartments, that
which was in kindness given up to us in exchange for a worse, was so
perilously damp, and infested with beetles, that we refused to sleep in
it a second night: and ﬁve snails were found in their slime under one
of the beds. It is not right in travelers to romance about such houses
as these, whether they be in the East or elsewhere: for future comers
suffer by the complacency or indolence of the proprietor, thus induced.
By remonstrance, we obtained better chambers: but the table is not to
be praised: and there is no reason why it should not be good in a
place so amply supplied with provisions as Damascus.

We saw more of the bazaars at Damascus than in any other city of
our travels; the whole party having to make purchases for friends at

