'rns sternum. 256

admirable interpreter was offered to us. Little reliance is to be placed
on the interpretation of any dragoman in this case: and Mr. Lane’s
nephew, Stanley Poole, kindly offered to come and be tongue to both °
parties. Those who have the pleasure of knowing Mr. Lane’s ne-
phews know that wherever they are, there is security for good sense, ’
cheerful kindness, and gentlemanly manners: and on this occasion, my
young friend Stanley appeared to satisfy the Magician as much as he
pleased everybody else. . --

All the eXperiments were failures-;—total and ludicrous failures: yet
I am glad we saw the Magician; because I have brought away a very
clear and strong impression of the whole case: an impression which
is shared by some who are qualiﬁed like myself to form a judgment
u on it- ‘ V-

p'I‘he Magician, who is rather a good-looking old gentleman, followed
his usual and well-known method. of preparing and burning charms and
incense, and then summoned the Arab boy who had been brought by
himself, or some one not of the English party. When the boy crouched
down, close to the Magician and his pan of charcoal, the incense bum-
ing was so powerful that three of the English party were preSently
sound asleep; and some others were drowsy. I, having no sense of '
smell, and beihg therefore unaffected by the perfumes, was wide awake,
and closely on the watch. As soon as the old man had poured the
ink into the boy’s hand, and had his own left hand at liberty, he rested
the tips of the ﬁngers ﬁrmly on the crown of the boy’s head, and kept
them there. When asked why he did so, he replied that it was to
hold the boy’s head steady, that he might look ﬁxedly into the ink;
'but it was observable that he did not touch the head of the others after-
wards brought in—nor mine, when I took their place. I saw in the
boy that peculiar quivering of the eyelids which is one sign of the pre~
sence of mesmeric action. ’

One specimen of the failures will suﬂice. I was sitting opposite the
boy when he was told to call and look for Harriet Martineau. By
degrees he spoke the name ;——saw nothing at ﬁrst; but presently said
the person was visible. “ What do you see I”—“I see a young lady,
dressed in black silk, walking in a garden, leading a little child by the
hand.”—After a few more fbilures like this, he was sent away, and
kept carefully apart till one of the gentlemen had brought in a boy
picked up in the street. He, and another after him, succeeded no
better.-—By this time I had arrived at the co’nclusion which [now
hold ;—that it is an affair of mesmerism, and that the Magician himself
probably does not know it. If the truth were understood, I have no
doubt it would appear that, in the ﬁrst instance, a capital clairvoyant
did see and tell the things declared, under the inﬂuence of the old man’s
mesmeric power, and when there was accidentally a rapport established
between the questioner and the boy. I am disposed to think that there
was originally no imposture about the matter at all: that the Magician
did not then understand the causes of his success, and does not now
understand the causes of his failures. If he continues to take fees
without hope of success, of course he is now an impostor: but if he

