Prints. 141

that there is no place where he has not been, distributing his beneﬁts
to all mankind.‘

It appears that the antagonism of Good and ‘Evil was not very early
recognized in Egypt. At ﬁrst, Typho was called the brother of Osiris;
and good and evil were supposed to be nearly related, and both claim-
ing homage, as necessary and therefore worthy of acceptance. When
the god of Evil came to he hated, his sacriﬁces began to be discontinued,
and we even ﬁnd his images carefull obliterated. He then became
the murderer of Osiris, and was in eague with Antce, of whom we
have before seen something, and who represented the sand of the De-
sert. This was an old feud,—this that we witness in our day, between
the Nile and the Desert! Osiris declares himself, in the old inscrip-
tion, “cousin to the day ;” and Typho was the god of the Eclipse.
Thus, as the old Egyptian philosophy declined, and the corruption
crept in which is the invariable consequence of polytheism, the brother-
hood of the two attributes grew into antagonism, and Typho became the
hated and ugly monster that we see him in the sculptures,—-the Satan
of the Nile valley, with the rava 'ng hippopotamus for his symbol.

It was in his ofﬁce of judge o the dead that Osiris was presented
to the minds of Egyptian uests at their banquets, in the mode of at
mummy, which was carried round, as Herodotus sast'after the feast,
to remind every one of his mortality. His name might not be uttered;
but his idea was to be ever present. The Greeks gave their own turn
to this observance, as Anacreon shows us, and used this memento mori
as an incentive to the more eager pursuit of transient pleasure. The
Egyptians were more serious minded,and at the same time more cheer-
ful in their views of death. Their view seems to have been that which
Thales is wondered at for having professed, and which he probabl
adopted while in Egypt, that there is nothing to choose between lifb
and death. The accounts of the saying uttered during the ceremony
vary,—as perhaps the exhortations themselves varied in course of time.
According to Herodotus, it was “Look at this man: you will be like
him when you are dead. Drink now, and enjoy yourselves.” Plu-
tarch gives it*more vely. The guest was told that men ought “to
love one another, an avoid those evils which tend to make them, con-
sider life too long, when in reality it is too short.” Whatever was said,
Osiris was offered to the eye, with his insignia of judgment, the crosier
and ﬂagellum, in his hands. '

Osiris was said to have forty-nine titles: Isis ten thousand.:t We see
her now in her temple at Philce, as the mourning widow of Osiris, and
the mother of Horus. She was the daughter of Seb, or Time; and
therefore the sister of Osiris: and it is said that the practice, not un-
common among the priests, and far too common among the Ptolemies,
of marrying their sisters, arose from the example of this pair ;—from its
being supposed that such marriages must be fortunate. We sometimes '
see Isis as the Land of Egypt, when Osiris is rising from the river.

‘ Wilkinson’s Ancient Egyptians, IV. 323. H
1’ Herod. II. 78. I Wilkinson’s Ancient Egyptians, W. 321, 317.

