emu or smarts. m

Matthew,—the traditional accretions and arrangements of Mark and
Luke,—and the Platonizing medium of John ;-—a care and labor which
it is profane and presumptuous to omit or make light of : but in this
instance, the record is clear, and bears its historical truth upon the’ﬁce
of it. After his most vehement denunciations of the Pharisees and
their teachings, as the vitiaters of the Law and the oppressors of the
people, Jesus was leaving the Temple. His companions pointed out to

im the grandeur and solidity of this new ediﬁce, of which every reli-
gious Jew was proud. He, believing the end of the existing world to
be near, observed aloud how littlethis grandeur and solidity would avail.
His disciples, perplexed, and unable to explain his meanin , came and
inquired of him, as he pursued his way up the Mount of lives. He
sat down here, over against the Temple, at the point whence its build-
ings looked most magnificent, and repeated his declaration that it would
be overthrown. From this he went on to say much of the time and
the object; that it should be within the existing generation, after much
war and political convulsion, and in order to the establishment of the
Messiah’s kingdom :—-a kingdom so spiritual as that the dead should
rise and reign with him. He went on to declare the process and terms
of this admission" of the dead to his kingdom, promising to own and
admit the watchful, the pure, the faithful, the charitablef—those who
should adhere to him in difﬁculty and danger, who should visit the
sick, the poor, and the prisoners, and who should keep up a steady
watch for his coming; and to disown and reject the careless, and cow-
ardly and heartless. It is an affecting moment for the pilgrim who
stands on that spot, with the same and under his feet, and the same
hill of Moriah before his eyes, when e surveys at once the three periods
of time concerned ;—the imposing, calm and prosperous aspect of the
scene when the disciples asked that pregnant question: the tumult
when the Temple was burning, and the hopes of the world seemed to
be carried away in the smoke of the conflagration: and the present
time, when a partial phase of Christianity has succeeded, under the
name of a new prophet, and all looks outwardly dead, while the king-
dom of Christ has actually come in a better manifestation than that of
thrones,1' and new wine; and a heavenly Jerusalem,-—in the new hea-
vens and new earth of the regenerated human mind.

Descending the Mount, we came to a place of a diﬂ'erent but very
deep interest. We cannot be sure that the enclosure pointed out as
the garden of Gethsemane is the precise spot: but [believe there is
no reason why it should not be. It was the custom of Jesus to spend
the night out of Jerusalem§ at the time of the Feasts; and this place
was in his accustomed track; and it corresponds well with the particu-
lars told of the approach of his ca tors. Gethsemane is now most for.
lorn. It is an enclosure of near y 200 feet square, where we found
nothing but eight extremely old olive trees, which are kept standing
only by little terraces of heaped stones built up about their roots. How

- Matt. xxv. 1‘ Matt. XIX. 23.
I Matt. XXVI. 29; Mark XIV. 25; Luke XXII. 30, 5 Luke XXI. 37.

