. sass lumen. 197
the other; and it is obvious that this must have been the case through
all the changes the Nile has certainly made in its course.

We were now about to bid farewell to the doum palm,—a tree which
I liked in its place,.—-its stiffness and angularity rendering it curiously
appropriate to the scenery in which it is found. A rove of it between
us and the Dendara temple this day looked as well as any tall elms
about a cathedral.

The crocodiles abounded ,now when we were soon to see no more.
Some remained asleep on the banks even after the sun had gone down.
Near Hon, Mr. E. saw nineteen at one time on the,mud banks.

We witnessed more of the doings of thecrew now that we were not
absent on our temple-haunting all day long. The Buck did not im-
prove in sobriety as time went on; and one morning about this date,
he was insuﬁ‘erably noisy, in his elation at being dressed in a grand
suit of new clothes ;—brown bumoose, yellow slippers and a vast tur-
ban, white as muslin can be. On Mrs. Y. complainin of the noise,
after- the Rais and dragoman had used every kind 0 remonstrance,
Alee quietly went up to him, as he stood in his grandeur by the gun-
wale, lifted him by the waist, and popped him overboard. We really
feared that the weight of his clothes would have sunk him; but Alee
knew better. In two minutes I saw him standing by the gunwale
again, high and dry, but in his ordinary blue shirt and white skullcap.
—-One of our quiet Nubians, twenty-ﬁve years of age, had already two
wives; and by what we heard of his life at home, he might well be
content on board the boat. As Alee observed, a rich man may put his
wives into different apartments; but the poor man cannot: and the
women quarrel ﬁercely and incessantly. This Nubian had to carry
presents for his two wives after every voyage; and if they were not
precisely alike, there was no end to the wran ling—Alec called this
permission to have more than one wife a very bad part of his religion.
He was not yet married at all; and he did not intend to marry till he
should have obtained money enough by his present employment to
enable him to settle down in a home of his own. One of my friends
one day expressed a hope that he would be careful in the choice of a
wife ;—so careful in assuring himself of her temper and goodness as
not to be tempted to put her away, as husbands in Egypt do so lightly
and cruelly. Alee did not quite promise this; but he gave an account
of what plan he should pursue, which shows how these matters are re-
garded by sensible young men in Egypt. He said he should buy a
white wife, when he wanted to settle. He should tell her what he ex-
pected of her;-—viz., to be good-tempered; to make him comfortable;
and to take care of his “ boys.” If she failed, he should, the ﬁrst time,
tell her his mind “ very strongly.” And then, if she got out of temper,
or was negligent a second time, he should “ just put her away." This
was said with the gesture of Othello at the words “ whistle her down
the wind.”

The wag Ibraheem was seen to .be very sulky to-day, after having
passionately thrown some bread overboard, and spat out after it what
was in his mouth. This was because the Rais rebuked him for his

