514 . sum ml.

to let the animals pass beneath, letting down the load again at the end
of the strait. While one mule was passing in this manner, those behind
occupied themselves with browsing on the grass and weeds which gm
on the house tops. The charm of wild-ﬂowers now again began torp-
pear; and the cyclamen and cistus bordered the track.

When we emerged from the mist, the scene was glorious,—the gorgt
of the Kadesha opening below us, and the rich skirts of Lebanon stretch
ing away to the shore. The track down to the torrent was so narrow
that the burdens of the mules occasionally struck against the roclm
one side, throwing the animals off their balance, and threateningto
knock them over the precipice on the other side. The drivers upheﬂ
them with all their strength: and one man, while doing this,miasd
his footing, and tumbled over and over to a considerable depth. There
he lay as if dead: and it was scarcely possible to doubt his being fatally
hurt. Alee scrambled down after him. and performed a feat whit“
should have thought impracticable for one so slightly made. He took
up his more bulky comrade in his arms, and shook him up and down.
as if he wished to dislocate any joints which might not have undergtlle

that process already. After some minutes of this rou h exercisedbe ‘

restorative effects were apparent. The man showed imself caplbl!
of voluntary movement; and was presently as cheerful as usual. Mew
time, the foremost of the party had discovered that the proper buds!
over the torrent was gone. The piers and fragments showed us will

a safe and handsome bridge we might have found there at some format ‘

time: but now there was only a slight temporary bridge over the ma!
tumultuous part of the torrent, where it was made yet more noisy hi
the junction of a roaring rapid from a mill on the opposite side. 1”?
quired some little command of nerve for as rational beings to pm ll:

leading our restless horses: but some of the mules had no idea of I“! \

self-command; and they positively refused to -set foot on the bum
By hood-winking. pulling, and many blows, all were forced over bl“
two;—a little one,,and one as large as a horse. We stood for I130“
than half-an—hour in a damp mulberry plantation, watching ‘the den“
of the drivers. At last a strong body of them lifted up the hind leg”
the animal, and forced it over the bridge, wheel-barrow fashion. The“
the creatures had to be reloaded ; and much time was lost at this bridﬂ"
Next, one of the mules fell over, exactly as the driver had done on
other side: and he would have tumbled into the torrent, if three In?"
had not jumped down in an instant, and propped up the animal ‘7’
their shoulders, till his burden was removed, and he was led up 10 the
path. By this time, we began to wonder when we should get to B"
troun: and I, for one, hoped that we should encamp somewhere 850“
of it. The men were breathless, and evidently not equal to many more
such adventures this day. But as we wound up the gorgerlFl‘W
thickets of thorns and wild roses, it was a comfort to see Alee sitting
sideways on his horse, smoking his chibouque,and trying to help lung
in at the tatters of my skirt. On the opposite side of the ravine.
e set was strange of the slanting strata, fringed and feathered with

O

