294 nuns urn.

tion, Moses took his station, tocollect and review his multitude. The
interest of the scene lay in its extreme wildness and desolation. Only
three European parties had ever passed this way before us: and the
novelty did, we believe, attract the attention of the roving Arabs who
saw us, though they took good care that we should not see them. One
dark head was this day observed peeping over the ridge of a sandhill ;
and the ﬂuttering of garments showed that the spy had taken ﬂight to
his hidden comrades. This man was the only rson we saw between
Bissateen and Suez, except one group of Bis ara’s friends. There
was a popping of guns one evening after dark, on account, we were
told, of Bedoueens seen prowling about the camp: but whether this
was true we do not know.

Our escort were all of Bishara’s tribe; and some had faces as pre-
possessin as Bishara’s own. They were all armed—with pistols. or
match-10c s, or short swords. A number of spears, stuck points up-
wards on camels’ backs, glittered in the sun. Some of the Arabs wore
sandals of ﬁsh skin ; some were clothed in sheepskins, the woolly side
inwards. All had their heads thickly covered, and where possible,
with something white, at least in the middle of the day. For the most
part, they trudged during the eight or nine hours of our daily travel;
but sometimes they rode in turn.

We were surprised at the variety of the scenery, this ﬁrst day; but
we were not long in learning that there is endless variety in Desert
traveling. To-day we saw wide valleys of hard gravel, narrow deﬁles,
water-courses tufted with low tamarisks and dwarf thorny acacia, traces
of pools left by former torrents, yellow slopes and mounds, dark and
abrupt hills, and limestone eminences, embrowned with the soil, some-
times lofty enough to be called, in Egypt, mountains. The Djebel
Rhaiboon is a black hill rising from amidst white sands; and l was
struck by the streaky character of some of the soil, on emerging from
the White Valley upon the Wadee Beds—resembling cloud-shadows
so exactly that it surprised me to see that there was not a cloud in the
sky. The White Valley is a ﬁne winding deﬁle, overhung by steep
and imposing hills ;—the very place for an assault from the Bedoueens,
if our troop had been less strong.

We stopped this afternoon in the midst of undulating pebbly ground,
where our tents were ﬁxed, to our great satisfaction, further apart than
at Bissateen, allowing us more liberty and domestic convenience than
when we were all so huddled together that conversation was overheard
from tent to tent, and we could not stir out without stumbling over tent
ropes. Of all the variety of ground on which we encamped during
these weeks, we liked the pebbly soil the best. Hard sand was con-
venient; but there black beetles abound. Soft sand has usually large
stones strewn upon it, under which scorpions and other reptiles hide.
Of course, rock will not do, as the tent pegs cannot be driven in. Short
grass, on which we often encamped in Palestine, is pleasant: but then
there are earwigs and ants. The prettiest perhaps was at Petra, where
lilies were growing under my bed : but, on the whole, there is nothing
like smooth pebbles—our ﬂoor on this ﬁrst night. On the Thursday,

