m err-son. 249

a sculptured and pillared hall of chalk. The interior of this mosque is
of vast dimensions, and must be truly imposing when ﬁnished-

It is from this eminence,—-from the terrace of the citadel—that that

view is obtained which is by some declared to be unsurpassed by any
in the known world. On the whole, I prefer the view of Damascus
from the Salaheeyeh to that of Cairo from the terrace of the citadel:
but elsewhere I certainly should not know how to ﬁnd a parallel
for it. ' _
I would entreat any stranger to see this view ﬁrst in the evening,—
before sunset. '1 saw it three times or more. In the morning there
was much haze in the distance, and a sameness of color which hurt the
eye. At noon there was no color at all: all color being discharged in
the middle of the day in Egypt, except in shady places. In the even-
ing the beauty is beyond description. The vastness of the city, as it
lies stretched below, surprises every one. It looks a perfect wilder-
ness of ﬂatroofs, cupolas, minarets, and palm tops, with an open space
here and there, presenting the complete front of a mosque, and gay
groups of people, and moving camels,—-a relief to the eye, though so
diminished by distance. The aqueduct is a most striking feature, run-
ning off for miles. The City of Tombs was beautiful and wonderful,
——its fawn-colored domes rising against the somewhat darker sand of
the desert. The river gleamed and wound away from the dim south ‘
into the blue distance of the north, the green strip of cultivation on its
banks delighting the eye amidst the yellow sands. Over to the west,
the Pyramids looked their full height, and their full distance, which is
not the case from below. The platform of the Great Pyramid is here
seen to be a considerable hill of itself; and the ﬁelds and causeways
which intervene between it and the river lie as in a map, and indicate
the true distance and elevation of these mighty monuments. The
Lybian hills, dreary as possible, close in the view behind them, as the
'Mokuttam range does above and behind the citadel.-—This view is the
great sight of Cairo, and that which the stranger contrives to bring into
his plan for almost every day.

Of course we saw the court where the Memlooks were slaughtered,
and the wall whence Emin Bey took his leap, and the narrow street
below, up which he ﬂed. The wall must have been a good deal raised,
even allowing for the rubbish heap which that day lay below; for its
height above the street is now not less than eighty feet. N o lapse of
time or consideration of circumstances can soften one’s feelings about
that act of treacherous barbarity, or lessen one’s compassion for the
man who would purchase life and empire (supposing them to have been
really in danger) at such a price. If any of my readers should be
unaware of this deed of Mohammed Alee’s, it may be soon learned.—
He wanted to go into Arabia, to drive out the Wahabees who molested
the pilgrims: but he was afraid to leave Egypt while the proud Mem-
looks remained, to accomplish some objects of theirs, adverse to him,
in his absence. He invited the whole body of their leaders to the
citadel, to witness a fete, treated them with the usual hospitalities, and
dismissed them courteously. As the last went out, the- doors were

