SINAI AND ITS FAITH.

 

CHAPTER I.

MOSES BEFORE THE EXODUS.—ROUTE TO THE RED mamma-
RIDING.

IN traveling from the Nile to Mount Sinai, the chief interest is in
following the track of the Israelites; and the person one thinks most of
is Moses.

In the island of Roda we had seen the spot where, according to tra-
dition, his bulrush cradle was found. At Memphis, we had been in
the place of his abode; and at Heliopolis, in that of his education.
According to a Mohammedan tradition, he was a learned priest of
Heliopolis. Whether this is probable or not, he was certainly of the
priestly caste, being adopted as a son of the royal house. At all
events, the early part of his life, up to mature manhood, was passed in
ease and in the leisure of learned pursuits, in the neighborhood with
which we were now familiar, and whose natural features were dee ly
impressed upon our minds by our grateful and admirin interest inhis,
history. Its natural features (from which it is impossi le now to ex-
clude the Pyramids) were, however, all we had. Every change that
Time and Man could effect has been wrought; and we felt everywhere
that only by its natural features could Moses himself now reco nine
the region where his mind was born and reared. The cities be new
are gone, and others have arisen on other sites. 0f the race he knew,
not a living man remains, and another has come into its place.

But we were oing now into the region where his purposes were
born, reared ant? accomplished. We were to see objects which he
saw, and as he saw them ;—the scene unchanged, and the people the
same, (one may say.) whom he met ;-—the same races, living in the
same manner, and presenting the same aspect. For some weeks to
come, we might look about us with his eyes, and become able, day by
day, to enter more into his mind.

He had three times crossed the Sinai peninsula on which we were
about to enter: three times, in very different states of mind. The ﬁrst
time, he was unhappy,—-his heart heavy with the sense of the degra-
dation of his Hebrew brethren, and his fortunes scattered to the winds
by the act of sympathy with his race,-—his slaughter of one of their
task-mastersr-whicb had come to the knowledge of Pharaoh. Away

