298 3mm Lin.

did it oftener between dinner and tea; and twice I let two or three
days pass before I brought it up. One’s journal is the chief nuisance
in such travel as ours. There is’ no pleasure in it, one way or ano-
ther. About one’s duties at home there is always some pleasure, be-
cause one can do well what one undertakes: but one’s journal is a
perpetual irritation and mortiﬁcation. It is such a mockery! When
one’s whole soul has been full and glowing for hours amo marvelous
scenes and new experiences, the only result in ope’s journ is a‘ couple
of pages of record which one wants to tear out as soon as written, in
indignation at its poverty. But the deepest mortiﬁcation of this kind
is better than not keeping a journal. Anything is better than the shame
and sorrow which must sooner or later ensue, when one ﬁnds the ima-
gery of one’s journey becoming hazy in the memory, and incidents
and dates uncertain, and trains of thought no longer recoverable. It is
worth any fatigue and annoyance at the moment, to secure certainty
for all future time in regard to the knowledge obtained on the spot, and
a complete array of pictures of the scenery one has passed through.—
On the Nile, it was easy to keep a full journal, and not wholly disa-
greeable. In the Desert, it required strong resolution; and I fear I
should not have done it if I had not felt that the thoughts of this jour-
ncy would be embittered to me forever if I let it pass as a dream which
must fade. It was purely for the peace of my own mind that I held
myself to this irksome duty; for I had then no intention whatever of
writing this book. Now I am, as I need not say, heartily thankful to
be in possession of the mass of papers lying before me, in virtue of
which the scenes and suggestions of my Eastern travel are securely
mine forever.—-—I say this in the hope that my testimony may strengthen
some young future traveler against the indolence or humiliation which
might interfere with his keeping a journal. He may be assured that
however meager his records and descriptions, he will be thankful for
them hereafter; and that no present fatigue can be so painful as his
future regrets if he entrusts to his memory what it will certainly let
slip or spoil.—After all, there was some satisfaction in my journal,—
at times when I had brought it up to the present moment, and when,
as I was wiping my pen, a breath of air stole through the tent, pro-
mising a refreshing evening, and Alec appeared‘with the soup tureen,
and the gentlemen came in, cheerful and hungry, and the bottle of ale
(the greatest possible refreshment in the desert, except the chibouque)
was visible in the corner. The thought of the ﬁnished journal cer
tainly gave a zest to the dinner,——a relish which the two gentlemen
must have daily enjoyed, for they were daily diligent.

Abasis gave us excellent dinners—good soup always: mutton and
fowls always; and these Arab cooks discover an astonishing variety of
ways of cooking mutton. Then, there was macaroni, and potatoes; and
always some nice pudding or fruit pie: excellent cheese; and a des-
sert of oranges and capital ﬁgs. Then the chibouques were brought,—
at once the indispensable comfort and chief luxury of Eastern life :—
a comfort of whose importance there no more conception can be formed
at home than the maple of the Guinea coast can appreciate our win-

