338 mm.

stop; but we declined it, thinking an encroachment which would have
been bold anywhere, too bad in such a place as this.

Akaba was now in sight,—the fort and long line of palms, on the
opposite shore, round the head of the Gulf. At ﬁve o’clock. it seemed
rather further 05 than nearer; and the gentlemen be to think we
could not hold out. Mr. E. pushed on to overtake A ee and the bag-

, and stop them, wherever they mi ht happen to be. Yet, fatigued
as was, I felt that evening ride to be elicious. How clear the light
was,—showing us every object alon the shore at the head of the gulf,
as if, after sunset, the very dusk ha been made transparent! There
was Akaba, still and solitary !—-there was the group of our camels, so
minute that we could not see them move, but only barely glide: and
there was Mr. E., distinguishable by his white hat, trotti fast in our
service ! And here were we three and a camel boy, a liiltfe group al-
most lost in the landscape, moving deliberately under the hills, with
the clear waters undulating on our right hand, and the stars coming
out over head.

Ales was so near Akaba when overtaken that it was useless to stop
him: and therefore we found, when we arrived at seven o'clock, that
our tents were pitched among those palms we had seen for so many
hours. We had traveled above twelve hours between breakfast and
dinner: but Mr. E. had seats, biscuits, and bottled porter for us; and
soon after eight we had dined, and were quite well.

Poor Burckhardt! what a pity it is that he could not travel round
the head of this gulf as easily as we did! The spot where we came
out upon the shore after luncheon seems to have been that where he
was turned back. Hostile Arabs lay between him and Akaba. There
is something pathetic in his notice of this turning-point. “Under thae
circumstances, I reluctantly determined to retrace my steps, the next
day, but, instead of proceeding by the shore, to turn 03 into the moun-
tains, and return to the convent by a more western route.—Akaba was
not far distant from the spot from whence we returned. Before sunset,
1 could distinguish a black line in the plain, where my sharp-sighted
glides clearly saw the date-trees surrounding the castle, which bore

. E. l. E. : it could not be more than ﬁve or six hours distant. Be-
fore us was a promontory called Ras Koreye,” (the Grain of Laborde
and the maps,) “and behind this,as I was told, there is another, beyond
which begins the plain of Akaba.”'—-“ My guides told me that in the
sea, apposite to the above-mentioned promontory of Ras Koreye, there
is a small island. They aﬂirmed that they saw it distinctly; but I
could not, for it was already dusk when they pointed it out, and the next
morning, a thick fog covered the gulf.”1

He was no doubt looking too far. The island of Grain was lying
close inshore, and vs near; and its mine must have cau ht his eye
if he had not been loorzing out over the gulf. His guides to d him that
the inﬁdels had put buildings upon the island, which made them call

' Travels in Syria and the Holy Land, pp. 508, 509.
t lbid, p. 511.

