mnunrmox or was mm. 231

with less care and toil.”—After all these wise and kind apprehensions
on each other’s account, the people of neither of the two countries have
seen the other lapse into desert, or the. inhabitants exterminated by a
permanent failure of water. Seedtime and harvest have not yet ceased.
——In Egypt, however, they have intermitted ;, and terrible have those
seasons been. Ahdallatif’s account of one of them is dreadful to read,
at the end of nearl seven centuries. . .

One is ﬁlled wit astonishment at the constancy of the overﬂow, and
the regularity of its amount, when one learns what are the consequences
of a small diminution or excess of the ordinary quantity; and perhaps
it is as perplexing to men of science as to other people that such regu-
larity should accrue from any such sources as those to which the inun-
dation of the Nile has yet been attributed. If the Messrs. Abbadie
should return in safety to Europe, to tell us what they believe they
have discovered respecting the fountains of the Nile, we may know
something are long which may relieve our perplexity. Meantime, it
appears to us one of the chief wonders of the natural world that the
mountains of Abyssinia should so punctually gather the clouds about
them, and entice the rains, as to send out streams of the same force,
which shall water two thousand miles of country to within a few inches
of the same height, and a few hours of the same time, year by year, for
as many ages as are known to man. '

The highest point reached by the inundation, and very rarely
reached, is a little above nineteen cubits. In this case, much cultiva-
ble land remains so long submerged that the sowing cannot take place;
and it is as barren as a desert for that year, while some spots which
are ordinarily dry yield a harvest for once. Of course, there is a great
destruction of dwellings and of stock in this case. When the rise
reaches eighteen cubits, there is great rejoicing, for the produce is then
sufﬁcient for two years’ consumption, alter the government dues are
paid. When it reaches sixteen cubits, there is enough produce for the
wants of the year; and this was called, in Abdallatif’s time, “ the Sul-
taun’s ﬂood,” because then the Sultaun claimed his taxes. Below six-
teen cubits, there is more or less scarcity. In such a case the south
wind has prevailed: and in good years, the north.

The IOWest Nile ever known seems to have been that of a. n. 966,
when the waters rose only to twelve cubits, seventeen digits: and the
next lowest was in A. n. 1199, when it rose only four digits higher. For a
four centuries before the earliest of these dates, the Nile had only six
times failed to reach fourteen cubits; and about twenty times only had
it stepped short of ﬁfteen cubits. The inundation begins about the
twenty-ﬁfth of June, and reaches its height in three months. It re-
mains stationary about twelve days, and then begins to subside.

Niebuhr gives a full account of popular methods of divination as to
What the Nile will be pleased to do that year. The Mohammedans
believe, he says,‘ that the fall of a drop of water from heaven upon a
place in Abyssinia is the cause of the inundation ; and that this drop

' Voyage an Arabic, tom. I. p. 104.

