verses 10 came. 27

were prodigious bustle and vociferation while we were passing through
the lock, and getting on board the steamer which was to carry us to
Cairo. But by seven o’clock we were fairly off on the broad and
placid Nile. The moonlight was glorious; and the whole company
of passengers sat or lay on deck, not minding the crowding in their
enjoyment of the scene, till. the dews became so heavy as .to send
down all who could ﬁnd room in the cabins.—I have a vivid recollec-
tion of that ﬁrst evening on the N ile,—an evening full of enjoyment,
though perhaps every other evening I spent on it showed me more. I
saw little but the wide quiet river,-~the broadest, I believe, that I had
ever been on; and a fringe of palms on the banks, with here and there
a Sheikh’s tomb‘ hiding among them, or a tall white minaret springing
above them.

Two ladies kindly offered me a place in their inner cabin, where I
could lie down and have the beneﬁtof an open window: but the place
was too unclean for rest. At 3 A. 1a., we went a-ground on a mud
bank. I saw the quivering poles of the Arab crew from my window,
and was confounded by the noise overhead—the luggage being shifted
with all possible outcry. We just ﬂoated for a minute, and then stuck
fast again. By the cessation of the noise, I presently found that the
matter was given up till daylight; and I slept for above an hour ;—a
very desirable thing, as these groundings made it appear uncertain
whether we should reach Cairo before another night.

When I went on deck, before seven, I found we were opposite Sais.
But there was nothing to be‘ done. No one could go ashore; and the
best consolation is that there is nothing to be seen there by those who
can only mourn over the mounds, and not penetrate them. A mob of
Arabs was brought down to our aid; and a curious scene was that of
our release. On deck our luggage was piled without any order; and
blankets were stuffed in among trunks and bags. From these blankets
emerged one fellow-passenger after another, till the set of unshaven and
unwashed gentry was complete. In the river was a long line of naked
Arabs, tugging and toiling and screaming till the vessel ﬂoated. When
we were once more steaming towards Cairo, and the deck was cleared,
and the wondrous atmosphere assumed all its glory, and the cool wind
breathed upon our faces, we presently forgot the discomforts of the
night, and were ready for a day of novelty and charm.

Breakfast was served on deck, under an awning; and greedy was it
enjoyed by one of the passengers—a catholic lady of rank, who was
traveling absolutely alone, and shifting for herself very successfully.
She helped herself to an entire chicken, every bone of which she picked.
While doing so, she was disturbed by the waiters passing behind her,
between the two tables; and she taught them, by vigorous punches,
what it was to interfere with her elbows while they were wanted for
cutting up her chicken. Immediately after this feat, she went to the
cabin, and kneeled down to her prayers, in the face of as many as

' These Sheikhs' tombs are very like village ovens: square huts, with each a
white cupola rising from the walls.

