126 nsrnluv urn.

rulers in their bands, they burnt our cities, and demolished the tem-

les of the gods, and inﬂicted every kind of barbarity upon the inha-

itants, slaying some, and reducin the wives and children of others to
slavery.” It could scarcely have appened that these Shepherds, “ of
an ignoble race,” would have captured the country “ without a battle,”
and laid hands on the rulers, if there had been such citadels as the
later built temples, and such watch-towers and bulwarks as these mas-
sive prop la. WheneverI went up one of them, and looked out through
the loop oles in the thick walls,I felt that these erections were for
military. full as much as religious purposes. Indeed, it is clear that
the ideas were scarcely separable, after war had once made havoc in
the valley of the Nile. As for. the non-military purposes of these pro-
pyla;—they gave admission through the portal in the centre to the
visitors to the temple, whether they came in the ordinary way, or in
the processions which were so imposing in the olden times. It must
have been a ﬁne sight, from the loop-holes or parapets of these at
ﬂanking towers—the approach or departure of the procession o the
day—the banners bearing the symbol of god or hero; the boat-shrine,
borne by the shaven and white-robed priests, in whose hands lay most
of the power, and in whose heads all the learning, of their age. To
see them marching in between the sphinxes of the avenue, followed by
the crowd bearing oﬂeﬁngs;—the men with oxen, cakes, and fruits,
and the women with turtle doves and incense—all this must have been
a treat to man a sacerdotal watchman at this height. Such an one
had probably charge of the ﬂags which were hoisted on these occa-
sions on the propyla. There are, on many of these towers, wide per-
pendicular grooves, occupied by what look like ladders of hieroglyphic
ﬁgures. These grooves held the ﬂag-staves on festival days, when the
banners, covered with symbols, were set ﬂoating in the air. These
propyla were good stations from which to give out news of the rising
or sinkin of the Nile: and they were probably also used for observa-
tories. They were a great acquisition to the country when introduced
or invented; and their introduction earlier might, perhaps, as I have
said, have materially changed the destinies of the nation. The in-
stances are not few in which these ﬂanking towers have been added to
a pylon of a much earlier date.-

The interest of this temple is not in its antiquity. It is of various
dates; and none of them older than the times of the Ptolemies. The
interest lies in the traces of the different builders and occupants of this
temple, and in the history (according to Diodorus) of the Ethiopian
king who built the adytum,—the most sacred part of it. This king
Ergamun, who lived within half a century before our era, had his
doubts about the rectitude and reasonableness of the method by which
the length of kings’ reigns was settled in EthiOpia. Hitherto, the
custom had been for the priests to send word to their brother, the king,
when the gods wished him to enter their presence: and every king,
thus far, had quietly destroyed himself, on receiving the intimation.
Ergamun abolished the custom,—not waiting, as far as appears, for his
summons, but going up to “a high place” with his troops, when he

