mums onto. 28]

vened it this day. There were a few tents, and some conjurors; and
pilgrims walking with a ﬂag and singing: and then they formed into a
circle, and one man chanted prayers. The eastern and western groups,
—-the turbans and burnooses here, and the French bonnets and mantles
there,—all among the dark acacias, or crossing the gleams of bright sun-
shine, make a strange picture, not to be likened to anything I saw after-
wards. . '

Monday, the 22d, was our packing day. I was to carry nothing that
would not travel in saddle-bags: so I took care that my saddle-bags
should be very large. Having stuffed them with necessaries,—not for-
getting plenty of paper and ink,—I put away all ﬁnery and delicate
articles of dress or use, in trunks which were to meet us at Alexandria,
three months afterwards. What kind of appearance I was to make
at Jerusalem and Damascus, it was useless to consider now. Saddle-
bags will not carry bonnets, caps and dresses which will notrbear crush-
ing; and all such were therefore left behind.-—-The hems of our gowns
told rather a sad tale of the state of the ﬂoors in our hotel. We could
only hope that the Desert would prove a cleaner ﬂoor. We had done
our best by remonstrance here; but the answer to our petition to have
our rooms cleaned was decisive :—it- would be useless to clean our
rooms, as they would be dirty again to-morrow! We had not our
remedy in our Own hands, as Swift had with his man Ralph; so we
.were obliged to be patient. ._

Remembering‘the scarcity of water which we were about to encoun-
ter for some weeks, I washed and dried this day the few things which
remained over from the hands of the washerman. The occasion was
more strange than the employment; and strangely I felt it. Here we
were going to spend weeks in the. newest scene and way of life the
world could offer us. We were going into the dreariest wastes of the
globe, with no means of existence but those which we carried with us.
We were going to spend weeks among rocks and sands, wild Arabs,
glaring suns, scorching winds, and a poor sprinkling of brackish pools.
How should we like it? How should I, for one, bear it? How could
I tell beforehand? I had had some experience, in former years,of the
hardships of travel in rude countries: but I had never tried anything
like this.—More strange still was the thought of what we were going to
see. Strange above all, perhaps, was the composure with which I let
all the imagery of this extraordinary prospect pass before. me. I could
not detect in myself any alarm, any surprise, any kind of excitement:
and I have little doubt of the same calmness being in the mind of
every one of the large company who were this day preparing to set
forth through the Desert.

And now—as to where .we were going. Before we left England,
Mr. Y. had asked me what I thought of our going to Petra. I laughed,
not at allsupposing that he could be in earnest about English travelers,
—and especially women,—going to Petra. In my youth I had read all
the books of Arabian travel that I could get hold of; and I was aware
of the extreme difﬁculty and danger of passing through Idumma in
those times, and up to the present day: I never gave a serious thought

