’ 'rnl: mm. 33

any wildness of sentiment, it was vexatious to learn from Alee what
they were singing about. Once it was “ Put the saddle on the horse.
Put the saddle on the horse.” And this was all. Sometimes it was
“ Pull harder. Pull harder.” This was expanded into a curious
piece of Job’s comfort, one evening when they had been rowing all
day, and must have been very weary. “ Pull hard: pull harder. The
nearer you come to Alexandria, the harder you will have to pull. God
give help l” Another song might be construed by some vigilant peo-
ple near the court to have a political meaning. “ We have seen the
Algerine bird singing on the walls of Alexandria.” Another was,
“ The bird in the tree sings better than we do. The bird comes down
to the river to wash itself.” The concluding song of the voyage was
the best, as to meaning, though not as to music,—in which I must say
Ipreferred the pathetic chaunt about the horse and saddle. As we
were approaching Cairo on oUr return, they sang “ This is nearly our
last day on the river, and we shall soon be at the city. He who is
tired of rowing may go ashore, and sit by the ‘sakia in the shade.” I
may observe that if the dragoman appears unwilling to translate any
song, it is as well not to press for it; for it is understood that many of
their words are such as it would give European ears no pleasure to
hear. ,.

The water-wagtails were very tame, we observed already. They
ran about on the deck, close to our feet as we sat, and looked in at our
cabin windows in the most friendly manner. Next morning, we began
to acquire some notion of the multitude of birds we were to see in
Egypt; a notion which, I think, could hardly be obtained anywhere
else. On a spit of sand, I saw, when I came forth, a ﬂock of pelicans
which deﬁed counting, while a ﬂight, no less large, was hovering
above. A heron was standing ﬁshing on another point; clouds of
pigeons rose above every group of dwellings and clump of palms, and
multitudes of geese occupied the air at various heights—now in strings “
which extended almost half across the sky, and’ now furling and un-
furling their line like an immeasurable pennon. The birds of Egypt did
not appear to us to be in great variety, or remarkable beauty; but from
their multitude, and being seen in all their wildness, they were every-
where a very interesting feature of the scenery. The ostrich I never
saw, except tame, in a farmyard, though we had ostrich’s eggs in Nu-
bia. We came upon an eagle here and there, and always where we
could most wish to see one. Sometimes, when in the temples, and
most interested in the monuments, I caught myself thinking of home,
and traced the association to the sparrows which were chirping over-
head. I found swallows’ nests in these temples, now and then, in a
chink of the wall, or a recess of roof orniche. A devout soul of an
old Egyptian, returning from its probation of three thousand years,
would see that “the sparrow had found a house, and the swallow a
nest for herself, where she might lay her young;” even the altars of
the Lord God, so sacred once to the most imposing worship the world
ever saw. Vultures are not uncommon. I used to see them some-
times during my early walk on shore, busy about the skull of some

