242 nouns m.

not the only scene which offered such a spectacle: wherever one went,
the same scene was presented; and often a much more frightful one.”

“ We will now brieﬂy declare the state of the Nile for this year.
The waters had considerably sunk in the month of January; and they
continued to sink till men and horses could pass the river by fording in
several places. It was in Ramadhan that the river was at its lowest
point: its bed was left dry, below Mikyas, to the distance of about
eight hundred cubits. Ebn-Abi’braddad ascertained the height of the
water at Mikyas on the 18th of June; it was a cubit and a half;
whereas the year before it stood at two cubits on that day. Last year,
too, the river had begun to rise on this day: but now we had to wait till
the 19th of July. In all this interval, the river had risen only four
digits; so that there was a very bad opinion of the inundation for this
year; the despair was general; people imagined that something extra-
ordinary had happened to the sources of the Nile, and in the places
through which it passes. However, the river now began sensibly to
rise: so that at the end of Epiphi (July) its height was three cubits.
At this time the waters ceased to rise for two days, which caused ex-
treme terror; because such a pause was contrary to ordinary expe-
rience. But soon after the waters came in great abundance; they rose
by strides, and one might have said that mountains of water leaped
upon one another. In the space of ten days, the river rose eight cubits.
three of which were continuous, without any pause at all. On the
let of September the greatest height was reached, which was one digit
under sixteen cubits. After remaining for two days at this height,
the waters began to decline slowly, and to ﬂow away very gradually.

“ Here is what I had to say of the circumstances of the horrible
scourge whose history I have narrated. I shall, therefore, ﬁnish here
this section and the whole book. Praise be to God,the Sovereign
Master of the universe! May God be favorable to the Prince of his
messengers, to Mohammed the Prophet without learning, and to his
holy and honorable descendants !"

Such was the dearth of the years A.D. 1199.1202. Such was the
temporary victory gained by the pertinacious old Desert over the strug-
gling Nile. The history suggests many thoughts ;—much admiration
of the sagacity and administrative ability of Joseph in saving the Egyp-
tian nation of his day from a fate as much worse even than the above
related, as their numbers were greater in the ages of the national glory
than ever afterwards. Much do we wonder, too, whether Joseph was
guided by an precedent; and how far by the prophecies of science.

e should li e to know whether, as he grew up in his new country,
he heard traditionery accounts of the horrors of drought in the valley;
and whether, in such a case, be applied himself to learn the premonio
tory signs of the calamity. Much do we wonder whether the ancient
race was ever this nearly swept away; whether the priestly watch-
men ever looked abroad from the top of their propyla over plains sown
with human bones instead of sprouting seed, and whether they called
together the few survivors to sacriﬁce to Osiris, to bring him back from
his absence or displeasure to his favorite valley. Much should we like

