PM. 139

Pharaoh to the despised goat herd, for a long course of centuries. He
was especiall adored for other reasons than his benefactions: 'as being
the only manifestation on earth of the Sn reme God. This made him
superior to the eight great gods, after w om he ranked on other ac-
counts.’ How the manifestation was made. in a human form without
an adaption of human nature, was one of the chief Egyptian mysteries ;‘l‘
the ideas of which will now, I fear, never be offered to our apprehen-
sion. Upon his death, he passed into the region of the dead, (borne
there, as the sculptures represent, by the four genii of Hades)—-and
Eben, having passed through its stages, was raised to the function of
ud .1

Aﬁciong the allusive names of Osiris were those of “ Opener of
good,”§ “ Manifester of grace,” and “ Revealer of truth :” and the de-
scription of him was, in the ancient words, “full of co and truth.”||
He obtained the victory after his death over the Evi Principle which
had destroyed him :1] and it was in his name, which they then assumed,
that the virtuous, after judgment, entered into the state of blessednea
which they shared with him." The departed, men and women alike,
were called Osiris: this spiritual name betokening that they were now
in that state where sex was abolished, where no marriage existed, but
human beings had become pure as the heaven-born inhabitantsd‘l

When it is said that Osiris was the only manifestation of the Supreme
upon earth, it must be understood that this means the only manifesta-
tion by a native heavenly resident. For all animated beings were
supposed to be emanations‘ from the Centre of Life.;t|; The great
emanation doctrine which has spread so far over the world was oer.-
tainly a chief point of faith in Egypt at a ve earl date; and it is
believed that Pythagoras, recognizing it in all ltheir o ervanceswhich
were expositions of doctrine, adopted it from them, and thence sent it
on through distant countries and future ages. Plutarch ascribes to the
belief of this doctrine the peculiar Observances with regard to animals
in E pt. The passage is too well known to need citing here: but it
is va uable, not only as testifying to this great fact'of the Egyptian
mind, but as showing that persons comparatively ancient were wiser
than too many of ourselves in seeing in their practice of what we call
Brute worship something deeper and more serious than we have been
taught to look for. Plutarch cites Herodotus as saying that whatever
beings have been endowed with life and any measure of reason are to
be regarded as efﬂuxes, or portions of the supreme wisdom which
governs the universe; so that the Deity is not less strikin ly repre-
sented in these than in images of any kind made by the hang of man.
Porphyry declares “the Egyptians perceived that the Divinity entered
not the human body only, and that the Soul dwelt not, while on earth,
in man alone, but passed in a measure through all animals." Thus
Osiris was not the only manifestation of the universal Soul: and so far

' Wilkinson’s Ancient Egyptians, IV. 317. 1' Ibid. IV. 317.
Plutarch de Iside, s. 35, cited by Wilkinson, Ancient Egyptians, IV. 3‘20.
Plut. do Is. I. s. 42. ll Wilkinson’s Ancient Egyptians, IV. 189.
11 Ibid. IV. 320. " Ibid. Iv. 320. 11 Ibid. Iv. 316. 11 Ibid. IV. 316.

