sumo—swam. 151

a model to us of the plan and structureof an Egyptian temple, and to.
the richness of its architecture and sculpture, than to any charm of an-
t nity. _

'qlts extent and massive character are best perceived from the top of
the propylon. For the beauty of the view beyond, too, every traveler
should go there. The mass of temple buildings below is a ﬁne centre
for such a landscape. About this centre is gathered the poor town,
whose ﬁelds spread to the river. Almost the whole wide circuit with-
in the blue mountains, or yellow limestone hills on the horizon, is one
bri ht green level. The only interruptions are from the winding river,
and some pools amon‘ the western ﬁelds; poolsat present, but canal
at the time of the subsidence of the Nile. '

As the morning was shady and cool, we returned on foot to the boat,
where we shook off our dust, and wrote our journals, in preparation
for new enterprises. The winds were now less cold and strong than
within the tropics; but we had frequent cloudy skies—as to-day, for-a
short time. Towards evening, the sky cleared to the west; and the
shore at El Kab, where we were mooring, was gorgeously lighted .up
by a parting gleam. A strange-looking wall tempted us ashore; and
we found that this circuit-wall of the vanished city of Eilethyia, whose'
tombs we were to see to-morrow, was in fact a substantial fortiﬁcation,
containing a hollow-way between two. stout masses of crude brick.
This wall enclosed an area large enough for an extensive city; and a
level stretches behind, from the wall to the mountains, which might, in
the days of the prosperous old-tillage, when Egypt was the granary of
the world, easily support the population of the district.

The morningof the 17th was charming; most favorable for our ride
to the tombs in the Desert. Our asses were of the smallest; so small
that the gentlemen could help them on by using a walking-stick as
they rode. I never before saw such a variety in the size and strength
of animals of the same race, in near neighborhood. To-day it was
like riding a dOg—and in two days more, at Thebes, we were mounted
on donkeys alm03t as large and strong as mules. .

The arid plain that we rode over had drifts of stones which seemed
to show that vehement torrents sometimes sweep down here from the
hills. The recesses of the Desert are very striking—so utterly still
and dreary, with nothing but the blue shadows coming and going, from
century to century. Here and there we passed to-day shallow pools of
salt water; and there were crtrsts of natron on the soil.

We visited a very small and very ancient temple, about three miles
from the river; and two less antique, nearer the old town. But temples
must be imposing indeed to obtain much attention here, where we come
upon some old tombs for the ﬁrst time. In the temples we have the
worship and the wars of the old Egyptians. In some of the tombs, we
have their thoughts of death, judgment and retribution: but in many
we have their daily life, their occupations, their festivals and their
mirth; and these are interesting beyond description.

The tombs at Eilethyia are grottoes in the rock; vaulted, and with
ceilings elaborately painted. Some have a pit before the entrance;

