324 emu u...

conduct. The fact certainly conveys the impression that a more ad-
vanced system of Moral Government was withdrawn for the time, and
replaced by one less advanced, in proportion to the disappointment
caused by the lapse of the degraded people. The Jewish writers, for
the most part, lay the blame of this lapse on the inﬂuence of the Egyp-
tian mob, “ the mixed multitude” who followed in the train of the He-
brews :* but it does not sa‘e their credit at all to suppose them more
easily inﬂuenced by such comrades than by Moses and the ideas he
had communicated. However this may be, a ritual religion they were
now to have: and in this ritual, they‘rnust have their Moral Govern-
ment. Moses had been compelled to surrender his loftiest aim and
hope—that of raising the people above a ceremonial worship. His
object henceforth plainly was to elevate the ceremonial worship into as
good a moral government as its nature would permit.

In the great concern of all,_—that of the Sanctions of the Moral Law
which he gave, Moses made his third marked departure from the reli-
gion of E ypt. The ﬁrst was his laying open the Mysteries: the se-
cOnd, his eclaring the Supreme a tutelary god: and the third was his
offering, as the Sanction of the Moral Law, Temporal Retribution in-
stead of Future Reward and Punishment.

Under every religious system, the excruciating difﬁculty has been
the Existence of Evil. Individuals may reconcile themselves to the
fact; and so many have succeeded in doing so, that the histo of
philosophy is full of the apologies of sages for the existence of 1Evil
But, as a philosophical question,the difﬁculty has never been touched;
and philosophy has not yet discovered how it ever can be. The learn-
ingof Moses taught him exactly what the deepest learning teaches the
wisest men now,——the mischievous operation of this difﬁculty upon all
religious systems that the world had known. He was aware that the
most pernicious of all the discrepancies between the Mysteries and the
popular knowledge lay in the respective views of the Initiated and the
people about a future life. While the priests, unable to account for
the inequalities of Providence in this life, taught that reward and
punishment would restore the balance in the next, all philosophers
whatever (Cicero tells us), held in common that God could not be angry;
and that he could not hurt any one: that anger and favor are equally
impossible to a happy and immortal Nature; and that therefore Fear
can have no place in the mind of man in regard to God—What a
state of things was here! As Plutarch says, You may examine the
globe: and in no re ion where Man has lived will you ﬁnd “ a
city without the know edge of a god, or the practice of religion: with-
out the use of vows, oaths, oracles, and sacriﬁces to procure good, or of
deprecatory rites to avert evil ;” and elsewhere, again, he declares it to
be so ancient an opinion that good men should be recompensed after
death, that he could not reach either to the author or origin of it. Such
was the escape for the multitude from the difﬁculty of the unequal dis-
tribution of pain and pleasure among men: and while the multitude

' Kitto's History of Palestine, p. 200 (note).

