anvnns—omosn. 201

rials on the temples and palaces,and with the names given on the walls
of the Ramaséum at Thebes. But the beginning of the list is unhap-
pily broken away; and we thus lose the light we most wanted for the
illustration of the earlier periods of Egyptian history.

Ramases lined one chamber of this temple throughout with alabaster.
The only part of this building which could be entered when we were
there was the hall; and even there we could only creep about among
the capitals of «the pillars. We could not even count them. I made
out that there were two in the width; but I could not penetrate further
than the seventh in length; which made fourteen. An Arab, whom
we sent in to count the rest, said there were twenty-six in all. If
Ramases could have looked forWard to the time when his temple would
be explored in this way, how he would have mourned for his religion
and for mankind! The capitals of 'these pillars are so large, and the
architraves so deep, that the hall, if cleared out, must be very lofty. I
saw the cornices of two portals; but there is no saying what lies be-
hind them. Air and light are let in by holes in the roof.

The palace at hand is remarkable for its roof, which is of sandstone,
while the walls are of limestone. The blocks which, laid together by
their broadest face, form a roof of prodigious weight and solidity, are
hollowed out into a vaulted form‘ :—-a laborious and primitive method
of vaulting for people who certainly understood the principle of the
arch. The sculptures on the walls are still clear; and there are stron
traces of color.» One superb boat caught my attention. The king, and
the ape of Thoth, and some other small ﬁgures were in it; and one ex-
tremity was ornamented with the ratn’s horns, while the other had two
towers, crowned with the moon.

We walked on, about a quarter of a mile, over mounds of broken
pottery and sand, to see such forlorn remains of these two great cities
as lie above ground, to grieve and tantalize the eye. A limestone gate-
way, gayly painted, is partly disinterred ; and also the corner portion‘
of some place once line with alabaster,blocks and fragments of which
are lying about. There is a good deal of red granite,-—some sculpture,
and two blocks which appear to be the ﬂanks of a pylon. There were
some black stelae and blocks; and plenty of crude brick. This was all;
but I would not, for much, have missed it. Such places are full of in-
terest in any state; for their monuments, if their monuments remain;
for their desolation, and the harvest of thoughts yielded by that barren-
ness. if the sand has spread itself over all.

We rode away from the begging Arabs of Arabat. and found a charm-
ing spot whereon to take our rest and luncheon. We passed that rare
object,—a round, natural-looking pond of blue water, in a basin of the
desert, with alms scattered about it: and then we came to a grove
wherethe pafms sprang up, straight and lofty, from an expanse of grass
of the vivid green of our April turf. There remained the ride to Gir-
geh, which occupied three hours and a half. _ It was all throu h the
same rich plain which we had overlooked from the mounds of Alg3ydus;
and the fertility never failed, all the way, except where patches of the
coarse grass called halfeh lay here and there between the ﬁelds. Gir-

f

   

