404 sass-cu ms.

the native ladies, who were arriving, and awaiting us in the alcoveof
the court.

Our hosts had promised that we should see the celebrated nonl-
dance performed by their guests; and this was the great ob'ect of the
evening, though it was no small advantage to see a party of liamasecnt

ntry assembled in this manner. When we adjourned from thediu-
mg room to the alcove, we found the deewans occupied by long run
of ladies, dressed in the extraordinary style of which our gentlemen
friends had seen less than we had. Some gentlemen who are not easily
disconcerted, looked very awkward and shy when seated in a long row.
on chairs and stools, immediately opposite the array of eastern belles.
These ladies whispered to each other, laughed and looked about them.
Esther and her lover giggled and ﬂirted in a corner. The American
lady went about with cheerful courtesy from one to another: and our
hosts were everywhere. Still, all was so dull that I began anxiously
to hope for the sword-dance. Time went on, and we heard nothing of
it. A tray was brought, and set down in the middle of the also».
with cucumbers, fruits, wine and snack—excessively strong. Some
of the ladies took up each a cucumber, and ate it, rind and all, aval-
lowing after it some arrack, to promote its digestion. I am assured
that ladies will sometimes eat three cucumbers in succession, in thil
way, with a glass of arrack to each.—A pause followed, broken only
by a gust of wind which blew out some of the candles, and brought!
few drops of rain, which sent us into the house. Then I supposed?!
were to have the sword-dance: but one of my companions told me
privately that it was not to take place, and advised me to ask no expla-
nation at present.

In the ﬁne apartment we had entered, there was a repetition of the
scene in the alcove :—music, whispering and giggling; cucumbers and
arrack :—there were also excellent coffee and ice creams for us Euro-
peans. In about another hour, the native ladies left their sew.
crowded together, drew their veils about them, and departed: and we
went away with the last of them.—When we reached home, 1 found
there had been a scene behind the curtain, and that it was very well
that the evening had passed oﬂ' so quietly as it did. As far asve
could understand the matter,——but it was never quite clear to us,—th¢
case was this. During the dreadful rsecution of the Jews at Dam!-
cus, a few years since, the French onsul was believed to have been
their enemy, and to have aggravated their sufferings. When the Jew-
ish ladies found his lady this evening at the Consul’s, they and their
Christian friends were hurrying away again, in great wrath, when our
host the physician went to them, and rempnstrated, telling them vhﬂ
a fatal insult their departure in this manner would be to their host. “I.
Vice-Consul. On this representation they consented to stay, but stipu-
lated that they should not be asked to dance, or amuse themselvel in
any way.—The part of the story which we could not understand III
why these women fell into such wrath against the French Consul"
lady this particular evening, when we had seen them meet in a new

