204 las'rnN urn.

is no sitting ﬁgure, as some have reported.) The hieroglyphics show
that neither of these great men can be Pharaoh or Joseph. The prin-
cipal ﬁgure is named Nefothph; and his parents’ names are also given.
He is presented as governor of this district, on the east side of the
Nile. He is no doubt the owner of the tomb.—The number of per-
sons presented to the king by Joseph was ﬁve; and the number who
had arrived were seventy: but here we have written up over the heads
of the strangers the word “ captives," and the number “ thirty-seven.”
The complexions are of the yellow, by which the Egyptians designated
the whites; the tint of the men’s faces being only a little deeper than
that of the women. The men wear beards, tunics, and sandals: the
women have their hair long, and bound round the temples. They wear
tunics;—one at least with a very'handsome Greek border, as we should
call it if Greece had existed then ; and they are all shod in ankle-boots.
Two children’s heads emerge from ornamented panniers slung on an ass.
The offerings brought are not like what the sons of Jacob would have
to give. After a wild goat and gazelle, comes a handsome present of
ostriches ;—quite a flock of them; and the procession closes with a red
man who carries an ibis. Now, it is curious that no account that I have
met with of this celebrated procession has mentioned the ostriches; which
are precisely the gift of the whole set which Joseph’s brethren could
not have brought. And there is no pretence that we could see for stop-
ping short at the ostriches, which join on to the rest of the procession
without any interval, and, with the man carrying the ibis, ﬁnish the
subject.

What shall we say to this omission? And what shall we say‘ to a
traveler Mrs. Romer), who coolly reports, without any apparent shame,
that she as brought away from Benee Hasan the head and shoulders
of a ﬁgure which she does not doubt to be that of a Jewish captive ;—
her dragoman having cleverly detached from the wall this interesting
specimen of antiquity! Where are our hopes for the monuments of
Egypt, if passing travelers are to allow their servants, (who know no
better.) to commit thefts for them in such a way as this? Who will
undertake to say what may be the value of any one head and shoulders
in a group which may be made unintelligible by its absence! 'It is
mournful enough to see what scientiﬁc antiquarians do;—how one saws
through the middle of a tablet of inscriptions; and another knocks down
one pillar of a series; and another carries away a group,—-symbolical
and necessary in its own place: but there really seems no hope left if
desultory travelers are to pick and steal at their fancy from a repository
where everything has its place, and is in its place. i

I visited the whole thirty of these tombs; and found twenty-one which
may be called commonplace; by which I mean that they contained the
ordinary pits for the reception of bodies, a few niches, a few mock
door-ways,-—which are frequently a form of tablet for inscriptions ;--
some with remains or traces of pillars; some with small inner cham-
bers; many with slightly vaulted roofs,and usually an architrave to
divide the vaulted from the plain part of the ceiling. Where the pil-
lars are gone, the circular bases which are left are so smooth as to

