nommaxm. m

wantonly sports with damnation by reviling the Prophet, and rebels-
against God by upholding the doctrine of free-will—being thus twice
over an outcast through inﬁdelity. There was something painful, yet
salutary, in witnessing in the East these mere exaggerations of our own
Ways of regarding one another at home. When we witnessed the
vindictive wrath of the Jews against their usurpin and tyrannical
neighbors—and when our monk-guide at Nazareth to (1 us, in all 8315
nestness, that the Jews had cruciﬁed a child in the Holy Week just
passed—and when we were insulted and reviled by the Faithful, and
were in the very places where they lately tortured the Jews with tor-
ments too horrible to be written down, I took the lesson home, and
devoutly resolved upon two tbings:-—never to hold back from declar-
ing what I believe to be the truth; and never to assume as facts the
worst results which may proceed from what I believe to be error.
While we see so many men who fall below the quality of their pro-
fessed faith, and, happily, so many also who rise far above it, it is
surely wisest, in the ﬁrst place, to judge men as little as possible, and,
in the next, to judge of them, where we must, by their individual pow-
ers and qualities, and not by the philosophy of the faith they hold.
This is only saying, in other words, that we are to know men by their
fruits: but, long as this mode of judgment has been commended to
mankind, we seem to need to be reminded of it as much as ever; as
much perhaps in our English homes and associations as the Christians
at Nazareth, and the Mohammedans at Damascus, who punish the
Jews, not for anything they have actually done, but for what a hostile
imagination and a logical course of reasoning indicate that they might
have done. ‘

The subordination of Christianity to Mohammedanism in the East
is a curious spectacle, from its novelty, to travelers from a Christian
country. It is impossible to quarrel with the fact on the spot; not
only because it is obviously absurd to quarrel with a fact of such mag-
nitude and import, but because it is plain to every unprejudiced eye
that the fact ought to be what it is. The Mohammedan not only
knows that his faith includes a larger proportion of mankind than any
other, so as to make even Christendom look insigniﬁcant beside it, but
be reasonably regards Mohammedanism as the reformed faith which
raises men above any elevation they could reach by Christianity. See-
ing Christianity as he sees it, chieﬂy in the Greek church, this belief
is reasonable. He may well think it a great advance upon the religion
of the Greek church for men to worship One God; a God really and
truly One, without subterfuge, or those metaphysical multiplications
which he knows to have constituted the idolatry of the East. He may
well think it a great advance upon the worship of the Greek church to
have no priesthood intruding between God and his Maker. He feels
himself to be irrefragably right in his solution of the great difﬁculty
which lies at the bottom of all theological diﬁ'erences,—or rather in his
conclusion about the Existence of Evil ;-for solution there is none:
nor is there any indication ‘that there ever can be. i The Predestina-
rian doctrine of the Mohammedan is thestrong point of his religion, as

32

