200 lunar: urn.

the soil is where the fertile and barren tracts meet. In the cucumber
and melon patches, I saw holes dug which showed a layer of from two
to ﬁve inches of rich black soil deposited upon the most hOpeless yel-
low sand. We all know that it is so. We all know how the Nile de-
posits its mud ; but it is best witnessed by seeing the crust thus sharply
cut through, and perceiving how it lies unmixe upon the sand.

We passed villages, farms, and single dwellings to-day, with their
dogs, geese, cattle, and children. The camels removed it further from
likeness to country scenes elsewhere than any other feature. We
passed the village of Aribat el Matfoon ((which means “ the buried”),
and came out upon the site and ruins o Abydus—a mighty place on
its own account, whether it succeeded This or not. The position, for
a. capital city, is very ﬁne. I doubt whether the situation of Thebes
itself is ﬁner, except that there the Nile is nearer, and in full view;
whereas, here it is merely traced by its evidences, unless the canals
are full. From the south-east to the north-west is an amphitheatre of
rocks, guarding the plain from the sands of the Lybian Desert. In the
middle of this barrier, due west from the temples, is an opening of
great interest. It is the road to the Great Oasis. How many caravans
and military processions have moved and glittered along that road from
the city, disappearing in that deﬁle of the hills! From those precipi-
tous rocks now descend sand slopes, as far as the mounds which lie
between the hills and the fertile plain. The temple and palace—now
the only coherent remains, are so far elevated as to aﬁ‘ord a noble view
of the wide area which they ruled. They rose above the city which
now no doubt lies buried under these hillocky sands. A very distant -
range of heights, faint and soft in color, incloses the rest of the land-
scape; and from them to the temples spreads the rich plain, all varie-
gated with groves and belts of palm and acacia, among which the vil-

ges are bid. The airy space and brightness of this scene are not to
be conveyed by description.

The remaining temple and palace are mainly the work or Ramases
the Great and his father Osirei. The temple is dedicated to Osiris, to
whom indeed the whole area is sacred; for this is one of the places
where he was believed to have been buried; and where the opulent
families of the region all therefore desire to be buried too. This pecu-
liarity, and1 that of the road to the Great Oasis beginning here, sufﬁ-
ciently account for the grandeur of Abydus, after it had parted with its
primitive distinction of being, as This, the capital of Upper Egypt.
Meetin Ramases and his father here, we think differently of them
from w at we do at Thebes. Here, they are comparatively moderns,
though living while the Hebrews were driving out the inhabitants of
the Holy Land. Ramases and his father were as much younger than
the monarchs on whose foundations they built as we are younger than
Josephus and the conquering Titus who laid low the temple of Solo-
mon. This temple contained the celebrated tablet,—the tablet of Aby-
dus—on which was cut, by order of Ramases the Great, a list of names
of the kings his predecessors. This tablet is now in the British Mu-
seum. As far as it goes, it most satisfactorily accords with the memo-

