mm. 521

journey. If he is kept awake by vermin or by fever, of course, that is a great evil:
but an easy quiet sleeplessness will do him less harm than he might suppose.
There is, I imagine, something in the mode of life,—the absence of one’s ordinary
business, and the stimulating inﬂuences of an open air life which makes sleep less
necessary than at home. However this may be, I know many travelers who ibund,
as I did, that less sound sleep, and much less of it, than at home, did them no harm
while abroad; and that they resumed their regular sleeping habits on their return.
It is worth mentioning this, to save any inexperienced traveler from the supposition
that. he is or will be ill, because he cannot sleep as he does at home.

As to the very disagreeable subject of the vermin which abound peculiarly in
Egypg—licer—it is right to say a few words. After every effort to the contrary, I
am compelled to believe that they are not always,—nor usually,—caught from the
people about one: but that they appear of their own accord in one’s clothes, if worn
an hour too long. I do not recommend a discontinuance of ﬂannel clothing in
Egypt. 1 think it quite as much wanted there as anywhere else. But it must be
carefully watched. The best way is to keep two articles in wear, for alternate
days ;—one on, and the other hanging up at the cabin window,—if there is an inner
cabin. The crew wash for the traveler; and he should be particular about having
it done according to his own nations, and not theirs, about how often it should be.
This extreme care about cleanliness is the only possible precaution, I believe: and
it does not always avail: but it keeps down the evil to an endurable point. As far

as our experience went, it was only within the limits of Egypt that the annoyance
occurred at all. Fleas and bugs are met with: but not worse than at bad French
and Italian inns.

The traveler should carry half a dozen gimlets, stuck into a cork, and daily at
hand. They serve as a bolt to doors which have no fastening, as pins to anything
he wants to fasten or keep open, as pegs to hang clothes, or watch, or thermometer
upon; as a convenience in more ways than couldbe supposed beforehand—Two or
three squares of Mackintosh cloth are a great comfort,—-for keeping bedding dry,—
for ablation, and for holding one’s clothes in bathing. By substituting them for car-
pets, also, in Nile boats, there is a relief from danger of vermin.

As for dresa—the ﬂrst consideration, both for gentlemen and ladies, is to have
every possible article made of material that can be washed z—gloves, among the
rest. Cotton or thread gloves are of no use, unless of the stoutest kind. The hands
are almost as much burned with these as with none. Woodstock gloves (whichbear
washing well) are good, though, of course, theydo not look very handsome—Brown
holland is the best material for ladies’ dresses; and nothing looks better, if set of
with a little trimming of ribbon,which can he put on and taken oﬂ' in a few minutes.
—Round straw hats, with a broad brim. such as may be had at Cairo for 4:. or 5a.,
are the best head-covering. A double ribbon, which bears turning when faded, will
last a long time, and looks better than a more ﬂimsy kind—There can hardly betoo
large a stock of thick-soled shoes and boots. The rocks of the Desert cut up pre-
sently all but the stoutest shoes: and there are no more to be had—Caps and frills
of lace or muslin are not to be thought of, as they cannot be “ got up,” unless by the

wearer’s own hands. Habit-shirts of Irish linen or thick muslin will do: and, in-
stead of caps, the tarboosh, when within the cabin or tent, is the most convenient,
and certainly the most becoming head-gear: and the little cotton cap worn under it
is washed without trouble—Fans and goggles,—goggles of black woven wire,—-are
indispensable—No lady who values her peace on the journey, or desires any free-
dom of mind or movement, will take a maid. What can a poor English girl do who
must dispense with home-comforts, and endure hardships that she never dreamed
of, without the intellectual enjoyments which to her mistress compensate (if they do
compensate) for the inconveniences of Eastern travel? If her mistress has any fore-
sight, or any compassion, she will leave her at home. If not, she must make up her
mind to ill-humor or tears, to the spectacle of wrath or despondency, all the way.
—If she will have her maid, let her, at all events. have the girl taught to ride,—and
to ride well: or she may have much to answer for. To begin to ride at her years
is bad enough, even at home, where there may he a choice of horses, and the rides

