Dunn. 127

slew the priests in their temple, and reformed some of the institutions
which no one had hitherto dared to touch. Sir G. Wilkinson points
out the fact‘ that a somewhat resembling custom still remains in a
higher region of Ethiopia, where it is thought shocking that a king
should die a natural. death: that is, like other people. The kings of
this tribe, when they believe themselves about to die, send Word to their
ministers, who immediately cause them to be strangled. This is re-
ported by the eXpedition sent by the present ruler of Egypt to explore
the sources of the White. Nile. , A *

Though Ergamun was'not willing to take the word of the priests for
the will of the gods, he appears to have been forward in the service of
his deities, to whom he is seen presenting offerings, and whom he
proudly acknowledges as his patrons, guardians, and nourishers. The
old adytum, built by him, looks hoary and crumbling; more so than
the more ancient temples we have seen : but the sculptures are plainly
distinguishable. It is much blackened by ﬁres; but in one- corner,
where the sculptures are protected by a block of stone which has fallen
across, I found a very clear group,—of the king standing between Ba
and Thoth, the god of intellect and the arts, concerning whom Socrates
relates a curious anecdote in the Phaadrus’r of Plato. The ttvo gods
are holding vases aloft, from which they pour each a stream of the em-
blem of life;—immortalizin “ the ever-living Ergamun,” as his car-
touche calls him. Under t e cornice are four decorative borders, on
the four sides of the chamber. One gives the emblems of Ba and
Thoth,-—the hawk and ibis,—squatted face to face in successive pairs:
another, the royal cartouches, guarded by hawks with expanded wings:
a third the emblem of duration or permanency: while on the one over
the door are strips of hieroglyphics.. The thrones of gods and kin
have a compartment left in the lower corner of the massive seat, to
ﬁlled up with devices.‘ Sometimes this is done: sometimes not. In
this adytum the compartment is occupied by the device taken from
much older monuments, and see now on the pedestals of the pair at
Thebes,--—the water plants of the god Nilus which are bound up to
supiport the‘royal throne. ,

here was enough of color left here to show us how materially the
effect of the sculpture was made to depend upon it. The difference in
the clearness of the devices is wonderful when they are seen in a mass,
and when each compartment or side of a chamber is marked off by broad
bands of deep color. The supplying of details, and yet more of per-
spective, by painting, gives a totally different character to the sculptures;
which difference ought to be allowed for where the colors have disap-
peared. I am not speaking here of the goodness or badness of the taste
which united painting and sculpture in the old Egyptian monuments.
I am only pointing out that it was the Egyptian met ad of representa-
tion; and that their works cannot therefore be judged of by the mere
outlines. The colors remaining in this chamber are a brilliant blue, 9.

' Wilkinson’s Modern Egypt and Thebes, II. 319.
1' thdr. Tayl. Trans. p. 364.

