17. 1mm: Lrss.

One of the sacred traditions of Egypt was that Isis had given one.
third of the land to the priests, on condition of perpetual honors being
aid to Osiris after his death. We know how Joseph left the priests’
fands in their possession when he bought up all the rest of the land of
Egypt: and when, after the famine, he decreed that the king should
have a ﬁfth part of the produce, he excepted the lands of the priests
from the impost.‘ The personal wants of the priests were all supplied
from the temples: and thus they were entirely free from the cares of
life. For one item of property they had the Tombs: and their mo-
n0poly of a property in such constant request must have been very
proﬁtable. .

It appears that there was a lake made near every capital city in
Egypt,1’ for the transit of the dead; and a sacred boat to bear the hearse:
and a boatman whose ofﬁcial name, written in Greek, was Charond:
The funeral trains were obliged to pass over this lake on the way to
the tomb; but they might return by land. The purpose of the obliges
tory custom of crossing the lake was that all the dead might pass
through the same ordeal before admission to their “eternal habitation,”
as the priests called the tomb. This ordeal was judgment by the forty-
two§ assessors who, on earth, performed the ﬁrst stage of the work
which was to be completed by the forty-two heavenly assessors, who
awaited the dead within the threshold of the unseen world. Notice
was given to these judges of the day of the funeral; and they stood in
a half circle on the nearer shore of the lake, awaiting the arrival of the
funeral train. a Any person might accuse the deceased in their presence
of an immoral act. 1f ”the accusation was proved, the deceased was
not al owed to pass. If the accuser could not substantiate his story,
he was severely punished. Even kings II have been known to be turned
back from the place of embarkation, when acts of injustice have been
proved against them: and it appears that the priests had no more ex-
em tion than others from this ordeal. Those of the rejected dead who
hadJ left a family behind them were carried home, and their mummy-
cases set upright against the wall of some chamber; a perpetual spec-
tacle of shame and grief to their families, who suffered acutely from the
disgrace of what had happened. Those who were poor and friendless,
as well as vicious, were put into the ground where the rejection took
place: and this was the shore where their melancholy ghosts wandered,
if poets say true, pining for the Elysian ﬁelds which lay beyond; those
Elysian ﬁeldsﬂ being the beautiful meadows which, in the principal
burial-place of the Nile valley, at Memphis, extended beyond the lake
of the Dead, all ﬂowery with lotus and blossoming reeds.

Besides persons convicted of criminal acts, debtors were excluded
from burial." A creditor might possess himself of the mummy till the

' Genesis, XLVII. 22, 26. Wilkinson's Ancient Egyptians, V. 420.
I Diodorus, I. 92. According to Champollion. '
| Diodorus, I. 72. v lbid. 96.

"' According to Herodotus, (II. 136 this was a very old arrangement, dating from
a law of Asychis, who, early in the irst Period, built the Brick Pyramid. “Under
his reign, as commerce suffered from a scarcity of money, he published the priests

