no ass-rm ms.

at such a notion as that of an express Author of Evil. On the

his doctrine, consistent from end to end of his teachings, is that which
Isaiah expressed afterwards in the plain words:* “I am the Lord,and
there is none else. I form the light and create darkness: I make
peace and create evil. I the Lord do all these things.”

As for the remaining method of attempting to account for the exist-
ence of Evil—the allowing a separate and opposing operation to the
high qualities of the Supreme—Moses had seen enough of the conse-
quences of deifying the divine attributes to avoid all the unphilosophical
methods in use elsewhere of setting up a rivalship between Holiness
and Compassion, between Justice and Mercy. He avoided this practice
as the immediate origin of polytheism. The God of the Hebrews, as
declared by him, was presented under the simple aspect of a Being in
whom all power and all will were concentrated—the sole Ruler, who
chose and governed this people by his simple and all-venerable Will.

As for what Moses believed about the destiny of man after death,
that is a question apart from what he taught to the people—apart from
that of the Sanctions of the Law which he offered. He probably held
the doctrine of his caste in Egypt—that the soul or life was an emana-
tion from the Supreme, to be absorbed after death, and lose its separate
existence. From the few and indistinct traces which remain in the
Hebrew Scriptures of a traditional belief of some kind of futurity for
man, it is probable that he thus held this doctrine of the Mysteries.
But that he saw this doctrine to be as unpractical as every one sees it
to he, is clear from the whole tenor of his life, conduct and doctrine.
His sublime object of laying open the Mysteries to his whole people,
his noble earnestness and unquestionable simplicity and sincerity prove,
as strongly as act can prove thought, that he held no practical religious
belief that he did not impart.

The Sanction that he did present, we all know—Temporal Reward
and Punishment. A more plain and practical doctrine was never pre-
sented to the mind of man than this of Moses; that every act of obedi-
ence to the Will of Jehovah should be rewarded by happiness in this
life, and every act of disobedience punished by unhappiness. The
happiness and unhappiness were to be substantial, generally immediate,
and visible to the eyes of all men. Generally immediate, but not al-
ways. Jehovah was long-sufl'ering, and might delay retribution: but
the evil would be suﬁ'ered by the children, down to distant generations,
if the sinner himself appeared to escape it. Not only was this procras-
tination of punishment indicated by the fact of an unequal providence
from day to day; but it afforded a hold upon a class of sinners who
could not be otherwise wrought upon; the fearless and hard , who
would brave consequences for themselves, but whose parental a ections
would hear an appeal; or, at worst,their family pride—a strong passion
among the Hebrews. In this declaration of procrastination of punish-
ment, we see also the ﬁrst opening of that doctrine, which has since
become so prominent in the religious life of man—the doctrine of Re-

' Isaiah, XLV. 6, 7.

