250 35:01an 1.1“.

believes that his success or failure depends on the pleasure of spirits
whom he propitiates, he may be always hoping for success, and may
think it wrong to refuse the chance. It is true, he is meantime taking
money for what he does not perform, and is therefore fairly open to
any extent of suspicion: but I do not see reason to suppose that. it is
a case of imposture from end to end. I wish a trial could be made by
some one who understands what is known of Mesmerism. If a boy,
proved to be susceptible in the inferior degrees, could be subjected to
the Magician’s charms, and questioned, after being put on rapport with
the questioner and the interpreter, I think it probable that he would
succeed as well as the original oracle: or, if the ﬁrst should not prove
clairvoyant, a second, third, or fourth might. . In my opinion, the ex-
periment would be well worth trying where subjects could be had of a
race probably so susceptible of the Mesmeric influence as the Arabs.

Seeing what I saw, and being myself a very good mesmeric subject,
I asked one of my friends to tell the old man that I had seencnrious
things done in England, and knew the truth of such clairvoyance as he
professed to show; and that I would take the boy’s place. I knew he
would refuse, and plead some good reasons against it: but I desired
my friend to take no refusal. The old man presently said I might do
as Iliked; but he did not think it would succeed.—More charms and
incense were burned, my hand was duly scored with ink, and the usual
pool poured into the palm; and I faithfully gazed into it. In two
minutes the sensation came, though there was no hand upon my head.
The Magician is a powerful, and, no doubt, unconscious mesmeriser.
Presently I began to see such odd things in the pool of ink,—it grew
so large before my aching eyes, and showed such strange moving-
shadows and clear symmetrical figures and intersecting lines, that I
felt uncertain how long I could command my thoughts and words;
and, considering the number of strangers present,~l thought it more
prudent to shake-off the inﬂuence while I could, than to pursue the
experiment. The perfumes might have some‘eﬂ'ect, though I was in-
sensible to them; and so might the dead silence, and my steadfast
gazing into the ink. But that there was also a strong mesmeric in-
ﬂuence present, I am certain.

I hope it will not be long before some satisfactory course of mesme-
ric experiment, like that so triumphantly pursued by Dr. Esdaile in In-
dis, is instituted in Egypt, or at Jerusalem, with Arabs for subjects.

As far as our knowledge goes (which is but a little way, at present)
it appears that the dark-skinned races,—as the Hindoos and the ne-
groes,—are eminently susceptible; and it is a loss to science not to as-
certain what they can do.——Nothing mortiﬁed me so much, in the
course of my journey, as the being obliged to leave unused such an ap-
parent opportunity of inquiry as I had while traveling among the
Arabs : but in truth, I had no Opportunity. We were always moving
from place to place; there was no one who could help me ;—and I
needed all my own strength to meet the fatigues of traveling. I mes-
merized a sick friend at Cairo, and found the exhaustion so greatr—so
unlike anything I ever experienced from mesmerizing at home,—tbst I

