474 turns ms.

from a ﬁne old rooﬂess tower, which had been shattered by the earth-
quake. At its base, the water was four feet deep; and through the
wide rents in its wall, the moonlight broke the deep shadows on the
waters, and rippled on the surface.

Ibraheem Pasha built some pretty baths at the hot springs we had
visited; and repaired them two or three times, after injuries from rob-
bers. But the robbers were the stronger party: and they came so
often, that the baths are deserted and going to min. The marble ﬂoor,
dcewans and reservoir are now all dusty and desolate.

The refreshment from our bath passed away so immediately that we
were convinced that our lassitude and distress were from the atmo-
sphere. We gave orders for a very early departure the next morning.
and had no comfort meantime.

Our host had lost his wife. and all his children but one, and was him-
self lamed, by the earthquake of 1835. It seems strange that he should
remain in such a place,—marrying a new wife, and rearing a second
family on the very spot where such a misfortune had happened. and
might at any moment recur. But Tiberias is one of the four Holy
Cities of the Talmud; and is sure, therefore, to be always frequented
by Jews. We had visited two of the four cities,——Hebron and Jeru-
salem; and to-morrow we were to arrive at the fourth, Szaﬂ'ad.

Accordin to our host, the population of Tabarea is at least what it
was before t e earthquake. Eight hundred people were then destroyed.
and‘ very few were left. Now there are about a thousand in all: viz-t
400 Mohammedans; 400 Jews; and 200 Christians.

Before four o’clock, the next morning, April 2lst, I was looking
abroad from a sort of terrace, where I had gone, as soon as dressed.
for air, when I saw a curious sight. The neighbors were not up; and
I overlooked many households asleep on their roofs. They had laid
their mattresses there, and slept in their ordinary clothes, with a cover-
let thrown over them. As the day-light brightened upon their faces,
one after another began to wake,—-the children stirring ﬁrst. They
rolled and rubbed their eyes, threw off their coverlets, and jumped up
—dressed for the day apparently.

From point to point of our journey this day, Tiberias looked well.
seated on the shore between the hills and the lake, and in osed by its
turreted wall. Our road wound up and along the hills, and some-
times overhung the beach, as we went northwards towards the plain
of Gennesareth. This beach must always have been pretty enough.
with its boulders, and ﬂowering shrubs, and white pebbles, and clear
waters, to make it pleasant for the traveler to imagine it, in the days
when the multitude collected there to greet and hear the Teacher, and
when the disciples sat there mending their nets, as their boats ﬂoated a
little way from the land. But it is difﬁcult to conceive that this vol-
canic basin can ever have been a healthy abode for men. As I looked
over it all this day, it struck me how dreary it must be in a storm. A
murkiness hangs upon it in the brightest weather: and when, of old, a
squall came down from among the enclosing hills, and overtook the
vessel laboring in the midst of the lake, a more dreary scene of ele-

