run lamina. 263

one, somebody spat a mouthful of chewed sugar-cane at me; and I
received asmart slap in the face from a millet-stalk: and one or two
other persons in the Frank group met with a similar insult. But the
good behavior on the whole was wonderful, in comparison with former
times. Baké Bey, the ruler of theaﬂ'airs of the festival, had declared
that any rudeness to Europeans should be severely punished.

We had not to wait long for the procession; and the interval was
amusing enough. A pair of wrestlers came to show their prowess be-
fore us. Never had I imagined such wrestling. Their bodies, bare to
the waist, were slippery with grease; and they took the greatest ima-
ginable care not to hold one another too hard. They seemed to sup-
pose each other made of pie-crust. They looked at each other with a
sort of good-humored threatening; shook their heads manfully; slipped
their hands round one another’s greasy arms; leaned their heads gently
against one another’s shoulders; strove to pant and be out of breath;
and then turned to us for baksheesh. We had seen many a better
match on the river-bank, when two of our crew had quarreled about

abit of bread.

There were no pilgrims 1n the procession. They were gone home,
or were entering the city more quickly and quietly by other gates.
First, came mustc, loud and rude: and next a company of foot-soldiers.
Then, the governor of the caravan,-—the Emir el Hadj, with his of-
ﬁcers. Then the Mahhmil :—which is the sort of vehicle or tent in
which a royal lady would ride on her camel, if she went on the pil-
grimage. The origin of the custom of sending the Mahhmil is, as Mr.
Lane tells us,‘ supposed to be that a royal lady did make the pilgrim-
age, in the thirteenth century, in such a vehicle; that her empty tent
was dispatched with the caravan for several years afterwards, as an
emblem of royalty; and that princes of other countries sent a similar
emblem. Why it is now esteemed so sacred as it is, no one seems
able to explain. The Mahhmil was, on this occasion, of square form,
with a pyramidal t0p, surmounted by a gilt ball and crescent. Its cover-
ing was of dark purple brocade, richly embroidered, in gold, with vari-
ous symbolical devices. It was carried by a tall, handsome, light-
colored camel, hung over with fringes and tassels, like the Mahhmil
itself, and led by a proud driver, who was soon to yield up the rein to
no less a personage than Abbas Pasha. This was the ﬁnal task of the
camel, which was never to work more.—N ext came the only offensive
object in the whole show,—the Sheikh of the camel. This was the
old fanatic or knave who has attended the caravan for a quarter of a
century, rolling his head all the way to Mekkeh and back, every year.
I do not know whether he can now hold up his head: but if his brain
is really disordered, I am sure it is no wonder. He was naked, ex-
cept a little pair of old cotton trowsers; his hair grew bushy and wild;
and, as he rolled about on his camel, he looked, of course, perfectly
crazy. We were assured, however, that he is a rich and luxurious
man, having one of the handsomest hareems in Cairo, and another, no

' Modern Egyptians, II. 182.

