ram. 359

sihllity upon him. Every one was glad to devolve the business upon
one so capable and so kindly willing, and who had at once proved
himself so steady and so good humored in his management of the old
miser with whom he had to deal. It was very curious and very inte-
resting to see the effect of his manliness and ﬁne temper upon the
Sheikh. The old man mistook the moral dignity for that of high birth
and station; and declared his conviction that Mr. E. was one of the
greatest men in Europe. It was clear that he really did stand in awe
of our friend; and what we should have done without the help of this
awe, we often wondered.

This day, we had no milk and no eggs; and we were warned that
only two fowls were left. We. made ourselves quite easy, however,
while we had good mutton and biscuit. It rained this evening, and I
put my hand out of the tent to feel the rain;-——the ﬁrst for so many
months! Now it had come, we were to have enough of it.

I was awakened in the night by a slap in the face from my canopy,
which was dancing about from the rocking of the tent. The tent cur-
tains were open, and ﬂapping, as if preparing to take ﬂight. I awoke
Mrs. Y., and we called the servants to look to the tent-pegs, which
they had the greatest difﬁculty in fastening down, from the strength of
the wind. The dust poured in, till our very bedding was penetrated
by it. Our clothes were draggling on the ground in this dust; and
some of them, with three rolling bottles of wine, were picked up out-
side. Two sets of sleepers in the camp had their tents blown clear
away to some distance. In the morning,I found that dust had lodged
between the pages of our books, and even in the depths of my saddle-
bags. There was then intermitting rain, which settled into a deter-
mined down-pour at noon. To me, one of the most observable things
about this rain was its effect upon my own health. For many weeks
I had been very unwell ; and, since leaving Cairo, had suffered from a
tormenting face-ache. Now, before it had rained an hour, I felt won-
derfully relieved; and the beneﬁt of this rain lasted nearly to Damascus,
where we had more. - -

Early in the morning, two of us went a short round, happily choos—
ing the water-course for our scene of observation. We descended into
it, and studied the embankments and piers to some distance on either
hand, little knowing how fortunate we were in using the opportunity.
It was evident that there were large and substantially built reservoirs
above the river, near Pharaoh’s Palace. The number of cisterns and
tanks among the rocks, at various heights, we had observed before.

After breakfast, a large party of us went forth in deﬁance of the
heavy showers, thinking that, once among the eastern temples, we
could ﬂit from cave to cave, and see a great deal with little wettin .
\Ve did see a great deal; but the wetting was complete enough. \ng
went through the whole range of the great eastern temples, which it
would weary the reader to hear of one by one. In one,—-that which
has three tiers of columns, we discovered that the architrave, which
had been stuccoed, was painted in perpendicular stripes.—In several
of these temples, there is an arched recess opposite the entrance; and

