neaasw rarrn u was BIRTH or owner. 39!

honored as to have a splendid temple erected to him: but there was
nowhere a grosser idolater than the sovereign who did this work :-—a
weak, uxorious man, who had an Egyptian wife, and concubines who
worshiped the stars.—As there was at that time no exclusively Levi-
tical priesthood to take charge of the national religion, nor any effectual
centralization of worship, so there were. as far as we can learn, no
imperative and universal Observances. There was certainly no due
observation of the Sabbatical year, nor of the Passover. It appears
that the Passover was never known to have been celebrated till after
the ﬁrst propounding of the complete Law, in the time of Josiah.‘
Two centuries and a half after the reign of Rehoboam, the people
were worshiping the brazen serpent;—one of the commonest objects
of pagan idolatry. Hezekiah “ brake it in pieces ;” “ for unto those
days the children of Israel did burn incense to in"? In short, there
was, till the days of Josiah, no centralization by which the people
could be kept steady to any belief or practice: and they, being what
they were, and in the midst of such a world as lay about them, could
be kept in any degree of order by no other means.

When Moses had been ﬁrst compelled to lower his aspirations for
them, and to give them, instead of moral commandments, a ritual from
which might emanate a moral inﬂuence, he had done all that they were
then capable of receiving. He probably saw, what some of the wise
now believe, that the fatal fault of the most reﬁned Egyptian religion,—
the religion of the Mysteries,-—-was that it was too much a worship of
the Mind, and too little of the Heart: and most strenuous were his
efforts so to reveal God to the Hebrews asto ﬁx on Him their hope
and fear, and, as a national god, their trust and love. His own self-
devotion appears to show that the heart-element did lie in the faith he
propounded; and what it expanded to when it met with such a soul as ~
David’s, his divine songs fully show. But there were not among the
Hebrews many such hearts as David’s,—quickened and expanded as
his was by his glorious faculty of Imagination and its kindred powers:
and the appeals of pagan worship to their passions were too much for
their forces of either mind or heart. Under its permanent seductious,
drawing them incessantly out of the path of allegiance and sobriety,
there was needed some stronger central attraction and established com-
pulsion than for some ages existed. With no records but ﬂoating
traditions, and perhaps scattered documents; with no exclusive and
limited priesthood, no compulsory celebrations which should include
them all, no one spot solely consecrated to sacriﬁce and worship, and
no pretence at last of preserving purity of race, it is no wonder that
“ every man did that which was right in his own eyes ;" and that many
eyes were much in the dark about what it was right to do. The con-
fusion and demoralization :were perhaps worst in the times of the
Judges. In the hingly institution a centralizing inﬂuence might seem
to have been found: though the wise Samuel was too clear-sighted to
think so.—A king supported by a priestly caste, as in the Egyptian

- 2 Kings XXIIL 21—23. f2 Kings XVIII. 4.

