300 smears urn.

We proceeded northwards, and encamped on a charming spot—on
the hard sand below the mountains. The clear waters rippled up among
the shelves of rock so as to tempt us irresistibly to bathe, though we
were warned of the danger of sharks. Mrs. Y. and I could not believe
that sharks would come into the shallows of the very shore: and we
bathed accordingly; as I believe every one else did before the day was
over; but we were told at Suez, the next morning, that the inhabitants
never bathe, and that it is only rash strangers, ignorant of the ways of
sharks, that venture to do so. On me, however, the warning was
thrown away. I bathed whenever I could, in both gulfs; and we heard
no more of sharks.

On Sunday, February 28th, we were to reach Suez in time for mom-
ing service: and, as the town was within sight, our own party pushed
on before the others. It was starlight when I came out of the tent;
and while we were at breakfast, the dawn disclosed the sheeny sea and
the ﬁssures of the gloomy mountains. We entered the gate of Suez
between nine and ten o’clock, and were met by the agent of the Penin-
sular and Oriental Company, of which Mr. E. is a Director. Captain
Linguist, the agent, showed us all possible kindness, and rendered us
every service he could think of. Among other things, be compelled us
to accept his whole collection of shells, which be forwarded to Liverpool
for us. To him it was, as he told us, a truly happy day. His ordi-
nary intercourse with Europeans is necessarily very hasty and unsatis-
factory. His ofﬁce is to help the transit of India passengers; and they
are always in a vast hurry, and anxious about their luggage. The talk
with them is about carpet-bags, omnibuses and steamers. Till to-day
he had not for many a month joined in worship, or heard a psalm, or
sat down with his countrymen to quiet conversation, or taken them a.
leisurely walk. He will remember that Sunday, as I am sure we shall
his kindness.

After a comfortable second breakfast at the hotel, which is kept by
two Englishwomen, we went to an eminence near, where Captain Lin-
guist pointed out to us the well whence only Suez obtains fresh water,
and the ﬁrst Station in the Desert; and, to the north, the end of the
Gulf ;—-a stretch of two miles or so of shallow water. A few small
vessels lay here, and along both shores to the southwards. Captain
Linguist has followed out the traces of the ancient canal; and he can
ﬁnd no evidences that it was ever used, or even ﬁnished; and he be-
lieves, therefore, that it can afford no precedent for the proposed new
one, even supposing the state of the waters and shore to be unaltered ;
which nobody, I believe, does suppose.

We wrote letters in the evening, being glad of this last opportunity,
for several weeks, of forwarding news to England.

The next morning, March' 1st, Captain L. took us in his boat over
to the Arabian side. The wind was so light that we proceeded at the
rate of less than two miles an hour; and the rest of our company passed
us, and landed two hours before us. The baggage and escort had
crossed the night before. The view of Suez from the water was ﬁner
than I should have supposed possible for such a miserable place: but

