nnsna'r maven. 293

tion of desert I saw up the Nile, by the tracks, which are very con-
spicuous and rarely intermit. During our whole journey from Cairo
to Mount Sinai, I saw only three or four places where I should have
had any doubt of the road, if I had been alone. The tracks are sim-
ply discolorations of the dark pebbly ground or rocky platforms in
some places, and a hardening of the sand in others. Sometimes
scores of these tracks run parallel, winding away before and behind,
and dying out of sight on either hand, so as greatly to moderate the
sense of retreat and solitude in the desert.

I have mentioned, in the camel riding, the only drawback I remem-
ber on the pleasure of Desert traveling. It is a large item in the ac-
count: but my impression of all the rest is now as of one long delight.

 

CHAPTER II.

DESERT TRAVEL—THE RED SEA.—SUEZ.—LANDING IN ARABIA.—
WELLS 0F MOSES. r

ON the morning of Wednesday, February 24th, our camp was early
astir. From this time, we found there was a competition among the
dragomen of the different parties which should getftheir employers up
and to breakfast ﬁrst. Our party was usually the earliest. After our
breakfast under the fading stars, we set off, and saw, as we looked
behind us, the whole train winding on, between us and the brightening
Pyramids and palms. We took our farewell view of the Nile Valley
about eleven o’clock, when the last fragments of the purple line of
vegetation disappeared behind the sand hills. From this day forward
I obtained the management of my camel rein, which my driver was un-
willing to give up. It was a single rein of woven goat’s hair, heavy,
but manageable. The headgear of my camel was adorned with cow-
ries. The creature was very sensitive, and the merest touch of the
rein was enough to signify my pleasure. This was the easiest paced
camel I rode; but I was induced to give it up, after a day or two, on
account of its shying whenever I put up my umbrella, or opened map
or book; and I saw it once run away at such a rate as to reconcile me
to having exchanged it for another. Our pace was very slow ;—on an
average, and including stoppages, not exceeding two and a half or three
miles an hour. It was not permitted to any one to lose sight of the
caravan ; and the most heavily laden beasts of course determined the
pace of all the rest. The slowest trot, or amble, was the most agree-
able pace: and we enjoyed the relief of this daily after luncheon, when
the baggage camels had gone forwards; and I contrived it often at other
times—either by lingering till the train was nearly out of sight, and
then overtaking it, or by pushing on where the tracks were clear, and
I could not lose my way.

In the course of this ﬁrst morning, we were allowed to dismount, to
climb a sandy eminence called Moses’ Seat, where, according to tradi-

