388 mamas ms.

chapel on the spot where Jesus sat when he uttered the doom of the
city.

We entered by the Jaﬂ‘a gate, and wound through steep, narrow, ill-
paved streets, where the echo of the horses’ feet between the high walls
struck upon the ear, through all the beating of the heart which told us
that we were in Jerusalem.

 

CHAPTER II.

ELEMENTS OF THE RELIGIOUS LIFE OF THE HEBREWS AT THE
TIME OF THE' BIRTH OF CHRIST.

Barons going in search of the haunts of Jesus, it seems to me desir-
able to review, however slightly, the progress which religion had made
since the great events which dated from Sinai. This is necessary in
giving a faithful account of my travels, because I found it indispensa-
ble on the spot to the true understanding of my journey. In order to
see the scene of the life of Jesus at all with his eyes, it was necessary
to understand, as far as possible, his knowledge and his views: and in
order to understand these, it was indispensable to consider what were
the elements of the religious life of the time. If I could convey any
idea of the advantage, in this point of view, of studying, ﬁrst Egypt,
and then the Sinai peninsula, instead of going straight from the theo-
logical atmosphere of home into the sacred places of Palestine, I can-
not but think that much irreverent dogmatism, and much idolatrous su-
perstition would be recognized for what they are, and would give place
to ideas and a temper more beﬁtting the disciples of Jesus. We all
know something of the beneﬁcent power of knowledge at home, though
our knowledge there can be derived only from books. We all know,
in ourselves, or by observation of others, how entirely superstitious,
and therefore how nearly worthless is our religion, as long as we igno-
rantly suppose that all the events and arrangements narrated in the Bi-
ble are perfectly singular: a state of things ordained, down to the mi-
nutest particulars, for the sake of the “peculiar people,” and in no re-
spects paralleled elsewhere: and then, how the value of our faith rises,
and our character of mind rises with it, when divines worthy of their
ofﬁce, and other learned instructors, show us how the religion arose,
and passed “ from strength to strength,” among circumstances and ar-
rangements which were common to all men of the time and region.
When it opens upon the young student that a part of the earliest tradi-
tions in Genesis are of Egyptian origin ; and that the covenant of cir-
cumcision was not with Abraham alone, but that the rite was practised
from a time unknown by all the Orientals, excepting only the Philistines;
and that though the Law originated with Moses, after an Egyptian
model, and therefore bore his name, it was, in its full extent, the work
of many centuries; and that the books, commonly called of Moses,
were therefore not written by him, nor ever asserted or assumed in

