884 Imus urn.

enslaved by a timid and superstitious regard to the wording of the re-
cords, they would have been as much shocked at the anticipation as an
of us can be at the sight of it.-—-We all know, as well as Coleridge di ,
that this is only a temporary form of an evil which took other shapes be-
fore, and will take other shapes again. We know that there was far
more freedom of religious imagination, reason,argument, and“, I may say,
knowledge among our Protestant divines a century ago than there is
now. This corruptiOn of bibliolatry has so increased upon us, our faith-
less and irreverent timidity has so grown upon us, even in that time,
that it would be an act of great courage in divines of our day to publish
what divines of a-century ago were honored for publishing. It is dif-
ficult now for philosophers to make known,—in England, for the in-
cubus presses chieﬂy there,—-what can be proved to be scientiﬁcally
true, in geology and some other directions; and it is much more di -
cult for philosOphers and scholars to make known what can be proved
to be historically true or false. ' Of course, our generation loses terribly
by this, both in knowledge and in health of mind. But the evil will pass:
and, though it is to be feared that it will only pass into some new form
of idol homage, we will hope that men may ere long lift up their heads,
and use their powers freely, as those should do who believe themselves
sons of God, and heirs of Christian liberty, and not slaves. or infants
under the bondage of the Law or the Letter.

No one at home could feel all this more strongly than I did before I
went to the East; and I think no one who has felt it at home can help
being full of sorrow and pity there for those who go through the scenes
of Palestine with the timid heart, and narrow, anxious mind of super-
stition. Instead of “ looking before and after,” and around them in the
broad light of historical and philosophical knowledge, which wouldtre-
veal to them the origin and sympathy and intermmgling of the faiths
of men, so that each may go some way in the interpretation of the
rest—instead of having so familiarized themselves with the wants and
tendencies of men as to recognize in successive faiths what is derived
and what is original—instead of being warned that any faith becomes
corrupted within a certain length of time by the very zeal of its holders;
instead of having the power 0 setting themselves back to the time when
Christ lived and spoke, so as to see and hear him as if he lived and
spoke at this day, our travelers may be seen—even clergymen of the
Church of En land— etting leave from the Bishop of Jerusalem to
carry wax candles in assion Week in the processions in the Church
of the Holy Sepulchre, and making obeisances to the priests, candle in
hand. Travelers maybe observed throughout doing one of two things;
overlooking, more or less consciously—the incompatibilities of the Scrip-
tural narrative—the absolute contradictions which can by no means be
reconciled ; or so fastening their whole attention upon one narration, to
the exclusion of the parallel ones, as to escape the necessity of the re-
cognition of variance. I met with one devout pilgrim who was ac-
tually unaware of any incompatibilities in the different narratives of
the birth and infancy of Jesus; and who declared, previous to inquiry.
that there could be none, because—not the facts or doctrine—but the

