non sum 10 mu. 341

every hour. His life, his mind, his countenance-are ravaged by it. The
whole intensity of the Arab character,—an intensity which in others is
divided among the objects and affections of their lives,—their families,
their camels, their enemies, their religion, and their desert wilds,—is
in him concentrated upon gain ; and a terrible spectacle it is.—Not to
trouble the reader with all the changes which took place in the course
of this day, when the old man returned repeatedly to the charge, to see
what more he could get,—a circumstance which left us to the lastun-
certain whether we should reach Petra or not,—here is the contract as
it ﬁnall stood.

Shaikh Hussein made himself answerable for our safety, and was to
refund the value of any property which might be lost. For the whole
journey to Hebron. except the tribute of 100 piastres (1L) a-head to the
Sheikh of Petra, Hussein was to have 1000 piastres (101.) for each
person, and 250 piastres (21. 103.) for each camel: the whole to be paid
in advance, except the half of the camel money, which was to be paid
at Hebron. To this the gentlemen adhered, through all the demands
made by the Sheikh from day to day; by which demands he obtained
nothing but our disrespect and compassion. .

During this day, we looked about us as much as we could. We
were struck here, as everywhere along the shores of the Red Sea,
with the vast quantity of shells thrown up in shoals along the beach,—
from the minutest to some'magniﬁcent ones, as large as a man’s head.
Many varieties of little crabs were moving in all directions. Swarms
of ellow locusts and handsome dragon-ﬂies flitted about in the sun 3
and! little ﬁsh leaped out of the waters in great numbers.—There are
no boats at Akaba; but men go out ﬁshing on small rafts. To-day the
sea was so calm that we saw them go as far out as the eyecould well
follow them. .~ ' ’

In the afternoon we took a walk so far as to turn the ﬂank of the
palms. There were many inclosures which contained,besides thriving
young palms, ﬁgs, pomegranates, and a prickly tree whose abundant
fruit, now green, is said to be delicious when eaten fresh and ripe.
We passed several water-holes and two shadoofs. There were many
children abroad,—healthy and clean-looking, and of a free and upright
carriage. -

, We walked up to the castle, and, to our surprise, found no diﬁculty
in obtaining entrance. It is a stout fortress, built for the protection
of the Pi] rims; with two cannon,——one on the wall, and one in the
court. ell as the place looks outside,——really imposing,—we found
it‘bare and foul within. The magazines are chambers of one story,
built against the walls, all round the court: and their ﬂat roofs support
frailer dwellings, covered with palm leaves. Besides accommodating
the little garrison, there is thus room for the merchandize which comes
this way, and for its guardians: but we pitied those who have to take
up even a temporary abode in a place so squalid and dirty. We were
thankful that we had encamped outside.—From the turret where the
cannon is placed, we obtained a ﬁne view, immediate] after the sun
had gone down:——the amphitheatre of mountains’beh' m the area

I!”

