TIBIIIAB. 473

that the fresh air on the hills would more than compensate for the
fatigue: and it was nearly settled that I should set off, attended by
Alec: but we were assured that itwould be unsafe for so small a party
to go: and I was obliged to give it up. This was the only serious
omission that I am aware of in our whole journey: but there could
hardly be one which we could regret more.

We stayed within all the morning, on accountof the heat: but in the
afternoon, we found the house inattfi'erable, and went out to seek relief
in change of place. We found the town to be what its appearance
indicated yesterday,—mere toppled stones patched up into dwellings,
with ruins lying all about. On many roofs we saw little square cham-
bers built of reeds, with green boughs for a ﬁnish ;—tabernacles to
sleep in, somewhat like those which used to be on every house top, at
the old Feasts of Tabernacles. Some of these looked small enough to
be mere pigeon-houses: but the inhabitants creep into them for the
night, and sometimes by day, for refuge from the heat and vermin
below.—We walked southwards beside the Lake, towards the Baths:
and found the waters clear; the beach composed of large round peb-
bles ;—the Oleanders coming into blossom all along the shore ;—and
massive ruins strewn about, and even extending a considerable way
under water. Our host pointed out some of these wrecks as the re-
mains of a bathing-house which Moses and Miriam had here! And
yet this man was a German Jew, who might be expected to know
something of the entrance of his people upon the Promised Land.

From time to time, within the last few days, we had met parties of
travelers who looked like invalids: and, on inquiry, we found they had
been to these Baths of Tabarea, to which the sick resort from all parts of
the country. We found a considerable number of people in and about
the baths to-day. The water, where it bubbles up from the earth, was
so hot that I could not bear my ﬁnger in it for many seconds. It
leaves a yellow and black scum on the earth and stones over which it
passes; and travelers who have bathed in the otherwise cold waters of
the lake, near where the mineral spring ﬂows in, say that they found
themselves in a tepid bath. Mrs. Y. and I were permitted to enter the
women’s bath. Through the dense steam,I saw a reservoir in the
middle of the apartment, where, as I need not say, the water stands to
cool for some time before it can be entered :—several women were
standing in it; and those who had come out were sitting on a high
shelf in a row, to steam themselves thoroughly before they put on
their clothes. The crowd and the steam were so oppressive, that I
wondered how they could stay: but the noise was not to be endured
for a moment. Every woman of them all seemed to be gabbling at the
top of her voice, and we rushed out after a mere glance, stunned and
breathless. To this moment, I ﬁnd it difﬁcult to think of these crea-
tures as human beings: and certainly I never saw anything, even in
the lowest slave districts of the United States, which so impressed me
with a sense of the impassable dill'erences of race.—We sought refresh-
ment, on our return, in a different sort of bathing. We were longing
for coolness above everything; so Mrs. Y. and I went into the Lake

