452 sas'rsmt ms.

sephus tells of the citadel of Sebaste, and of the noble palaces and
colonnades of Herod’s building: and there are remains enough to tell
the story for themselves. Shafts of granite pillars stand in the ﬁeld,
and in long rows on the hill-side. Mutilated capitals are laid don
among the villa pavement: and broken shafts are built into the walls
of the viney 8. Judging by these remains, the architecture must
have been of a mean order; and I certainly felt disposed on the spot
to overlook Herod and his Roman friends, and to go back in memory
to the short-lived and turbulent kingdom of Israel, when the planetary
faith of the East and the Monotheism of the Hebrews here carried on
their most desperate conﬂict, and when it was high-day with the port!
of the prophets. It may be doubted whether any heathenism with
which the world was ever amicted was administered with so ﬁerce t
vindictiveuess and cruelty as the Prophets of Jehovah cherished and
boasted of in this place. Here, however—into this valley from whence
Elisha sent his fatal message to Jehu—came One afterwards who sent
a very different message abroad among men; that they should become
children of a Father who makes his sun rise on the evil and the good.
and sends his rain upon the just and the unjust. I could not but look
upon the dewy wild ﬂowers as having sprung u in his footsteps.
where otherwise all would have been barren and dreary—laid utterly
waste by the destructive passions of men. There is a comparatively
modern monument here, which looks strangely on such a spoti“
half-mined Gothic cathedral upon the hill of Samaria! It is believed
to be the work of the Empress Helena, who, crediting whatever she
was told, supposed she had found the dungeon in which the Baptist
was beheaded. Part of the walls of this cathedral look like any hand-
some modern church: and its position is very ﬁne, when looked back
upon from the valley, or from the opposite hill-side.

We appeared a most ﬂowery party as we rode away from Sebaste.
Below the village, in a nook of moist ground, the large blue iris grew
in profusion; and our guide Giuseppe, our buﬂ'oon for the time, pr?
sented us with handfuls of them. He was riding a very small ass. ‘0
largely (though not heavily) laden, that his legs stuck out horizontally
over his baggage as he rode. He had stuck bunches of iris wherever
he could insert them about his ass, carried a large bunch in each
hand, and had feathered his hat all round with the nodding ﬂowers:
so that he was as fantastic an aunt-courier as could be seem—The
slepes were now all yellow with marigolds, and the ground covered
with scabius, white convolvulus, yellow nettles, hollyhocks and wild
artichokes. We had entered the plain of Sharon, in the midst of
which stands Sannoor on its ﬂowery hill. Here we were carried on
to crusading times; for here the crusaders built a stout fort, by which
they commanded the neighboring region.

A little further on, and about three hours from Djeneen, we overtook
our b e train: and for those three hours, we had a constant mt“
cession 0 beautiful views. When we left the lain of Sharon. '3
entered a little grassy valley, where 'a round, wee y old well occurred
here and there; and camels were feeding, and we met Arabs With

 

