mmmr. concsr'rrons. 107

irrespective of its objects. I did not wait till I went to Egypt to be-
come aware that every permanent reverential observance has some
great Idea at the bottom of it, and that it is our business not to deride
or be shocked at the method of manifestation, but to endeavor to ap-
prehend the Idea concerned. I vividly remember the satisfaction of
ascertaining the ideas that lay at the bottom of those most barbarous
South Sea island practices of Human Sacriﬁce and Cannibalism. If
some sympathy in conception and feeling is possible’in even this lowest
case, how far should we be from contempt or levity in studying the
illustrations of Egyptian faith and hope which we ﬁnd blazoned on
works “admirable and beyond expression !” With all Men’s tend-
ency to praise the olden time—to say that the former times are better
than these—we ﬁnd that it is usually only the wisdom of their own
forefathers that they extol—merely a former mode of holding and act-
ing upon their own existing ideas. They have no such praise for the
forefathers of another race, who had other ideas, and acted them out
differently. Instead of endeavoring‘ to ascertain the ideas, they revile
or ridicule the manifestation, which was never meant to meet their con-
ceptions, and can never be interpreted by them. Thus we, as a socie-
ty, takeupon ourselves to abhor and utterly despise the “Idolatry" of
the Egyptians, without asking ourselves whether we comprehend any-
thing of the principles of Egyptian theology. The children, on their
stools by our ﬁresides, wonder eternally how people so clever could be
so silly as to pay homage to crocodiles and cats; and their parents too
often agree withthem, instead of pointin out that there might be, and
certainly were, reasons in the minds 0? Egyptians which made it a
very different thing in them to cherish sacred animals from what it
would be in us. Eyerybody at home talks of the ugly and grotesque
character of the Egyptian works of art; and no wonder, if they judge
with English mind and English eyes, from broken specimens in the
British Museum. One can only ask them to trust something to the
word of travelers who have seen such works in their plenitude, in
their own locality and. proper connection. Probably some people in
Greece were talking of the ugly and grotesque character of such
Egyptian decorations as they might have heard of, while Herodo-
tus was gazing on them' on their native soil, and declaring in his own.
mind, ashe afterwards did to the whole world and to all time, that
they were “ admirable and beyond eXpression.” I would ask for these
considerations to be borne in mind, not only for the sake of justice to

the earliest man race (as far as we know), but
because it is Ie the monuments—I may say im-
possible to 4 ﬁlter medium than that of a teacha-

ble mind, WOI'Klng wun a sympamlzing heart. If any one hesitates to

t me. this much, let me ask him whether he would be willing to
have the Christian religion judged of, ﬁve thousand years hence, by
such an one as himself, when its existing forms shall have been long
forgotten, and its eternal principles shall be expanded in some yet un-
known mode of manifestation? Supposing oblivion to have been by
that time as completely wrapped round Catholic and Protestant ritual

