152 small un.

some have pits within ; and others communicate with holes or low-roofed
caverns where the dead might be deposited. The date is known by the
names of several kings being inscribed in the most easterly tomb; those
kings being of the beginning of the Third Period, immediately after the
expulsion of the Shepherds.

The moment of entering these tombs is that of a sudden withdraw-
ing of the clouds which overhang those far distant ages. Hitherto,
we have learned something of their devotional conceptions and feelings;
something of their philosophy; and much of their arts of war and of
building; but thus far we have learned nothing of the every-day life of
common people, except that the oﬁ'erings in the temples prove what
they had to eat, drink, wear and use. Now, however, on entering
these and other tombs, the dimness that overhangs the Nile valley clears
away, and we see the people at work in the ﬁelds, and busy on the
river, and merry in their houses. It is no dream,—no transient vision,
—-with clouds driving up to hide it from us again. It is steady before
our eyes, and we can take our time in studying it. We can note every
article of dress; every instrument of music; and the very dishes pre-
paring for dinner. How wonderful it is ! And what a fortunate thing
for us that it was the custom in Egypt for the owner of a tomb to paint
it all over with pictures of his life, its possessions, its interests and its
deeds !—Now let us see what this family are doing ;--master, mistress,
children and servants.

This is a rich man. With us, he would be a very rich man: and
his possessions are such as would make him wealthy in any part of the
world. The ﬁrst we see of him is in the ﬁeld where his laborers are
ploughing and sowing: that is, his chariot is in the ﬁeld: 'so he is no
doubt overlooking his people. The inundation has of course subsided :
and it appears that his land does not lie very low. If it did, he would
hardly be setting his people to plough, but merely to sprinkle the seed
on the slime ;—to cast his bread upon the waters, that he might ﬁnd it
again, after many days. This plough, however, is a very simple affair;
and not wanted to go very deep. A mere scratching of the surface is
enough, in such a soil as this. If any stiﬂ' clods turn up, they are
broken with the hoe: but that does not seem to be the case here; for
the sewer follows the ploughman pretty closely. Herodotus thought
the Egyptians very enviable in his day for the ease with which their
husbandry was managed. There were no people in the world, he says,
who obtained their corn with less labor and pains. “ They are not
obliged to make toilsome furrows with the plough, to break the clods,
and to give to their ﬁelds the cares which the rest of men bestow; but
when the river has of its own accord watered their lands, and the waters
have retired, then every one lets in his hogs, and afterwards sows his
ﬁeld. When the sewing is done, the oxen are driven upon the ground;
and after these animals have buried the grain by trampling it in, there
is only to await quietly the time of harvest!"l There is nothing said
here of the subsequent irrigation which is quite as toilsome a process

' Herod. II. 14.

F.-
_

___.__a..-—am-H&_FI'£I'

