nous u now strut. 327

pentance. Of this great doctrine. which has perhaps more than any
other inﬂuenced the spiritual life of mankind, the religion of Moses ap-
pears to have opened the first suggestion.

As his doctrine necessarily supposesaan equal Providence in this life,
the question unavoidably arises whether Moses believed in its simpli-
city ; and if so, how he could believe it in the face of the facts which
daily met his eyes. This great point of contrariety between the Mosaic
and the Christian systems is-usually considered the most perplexing
that occurs. It was beautifully said both by Lord Bacon and Pascal,
(b which ﬁrst I cannot discover,—-they being cotemporaries,) that
“ rosperity was the promise of the Old Testament: Adversity of the
New.” This is most true and beautiful: a saying worthy of medita-
tive Christians. It impels us to consider whether Moses could have
simply and undeviatingly believed that every Hebrew was happy or
unhappy according to his deserts. Here, in this Desert, did he see no
person sick whom he could not believe to be guilty? Did he not see
infants languishing with thirst? Did he not see bold and irreligious
men apprOpriating comforts to themselves, to the injury of the gentle
and obedient? How this doctrine subsequently acted on the minds of
the Hebrews, in the interpretation of the ways of God to man, we see
everywhere, from the Books of Chronicles which, in recording any
misfortune happening to anybod , always suppose or invent (as we
see by a comparison with the parallel passages in Kings), a prior sin as
the cause, up to the case of him concerning whom the disciples asked
Jesus, “ Master, who did sin, this man or his parents, that he was born
blind 2” The question is whether Moses, offering a sanction which
required and supposed an equal Providence, simply held that the fact
was so, without any docuine of compensation whatever. Judging by
the evidences we have everywhere else of his earnestness and Open-
ness, 1 cannot but believe that he did. And this, not by such consi-
derations as Christians have the beneﬁt of ; considerations of the inte-
rior peace which attends well-doing. and of the insigniﬁcance of the
outward fortunes in comparison with the welfare of the mind, so that
the whole world is no equivalent for the soul: but in a simple faith that
Jehovah would and did deal with his peoplea—with every man, woman
and child of them,-—according to their deserts, manifesting his retribu-
tion in their outward fortunes. In this view, it does not matter whether
the obedience required was ritual or spiritual obedience. When there
was no water, the multitude thirsted alikef—those who were too young
to sin under the law, as Well as the mature; and before the time when
children could suffer for their parents’ sin, as well as after.-—Whatever
was the inner conviction of Moses, such was the Sanction offered by
him; in avoidance at once of the popular heathen doctrine of future
reward and punishment, and of the polytheistic belief of an Evil Spirit
contravening the goodness of God.

The reward and punishment being individually experienced, as all
enjoyment and suﬂ'erin must be, had the law the individual for its
object, or the public 00 2 About this there can he no question. The
relation here was 0 King and people, leaving for Christianity the

