608 emu! mix.

Arabs or Italians: but by ten years old they are subdued, if possible:
and if they cannot be subdued, they are of course rude. In England,
we see many a girl of the age of this Baalbec child, who is interesting
from the mobile character of her countenance, in spite of her immora-
ble attitudes. Why should she have been deprived of the freedom of
unconsciously expressing herself by the language of gesture. during
the years when she is too shy for the full use of speech, and before
she has obtained adequate command of it? The ungainly and nuns-
tural inexpressiveness of childish manners in England is one of the most
striking and uncomfortable impressions the traveler receives, on his
return home; as the mobile grace of children and adults has been one
of his dail pleasures abroad.

Almost before Mrs. Y. and I were dressed, our tent-curtains were
thrown open, and a train of ﬁve ladies entered. ‘As Alee was engaged
interpreting between the gentlemen and some visitors in their tent, our
position was rather awkward; or rather, it would have been so, if our
visitors had not appeared extremely happy. They stroked our gowns,
looked merrily in our faces, and every now and then, burst into a laugh,
as children do from mere glee. Thus we sat for some time, all looking
as amiable as we could, till Alee arrived with coffee. These ladies were
from Damascus,—sent hither by our friend, Dr. T., for health; and
they reported very favorably of the effect of the change. One of them
was the wife of the Baalbec agent of the English consulate. The
agent and his lady were kind to us, sending us, the next morning, a
tray covered with butter, cheese and fresh‘ﬂowers. The agent also
guided us in a ride in the neighborhood; after which he sent a message
to the gentlemen by Alee, requesting them to give him a spyglass.

After the departure of the ladies, we ran up to the great temple, for
half-amhour before dinner; and afterwards we took a more deliberate
survey. I will not dwell upon what has been well described in many
books: but I am happy to be able to say that the report which I found
prevailing when I'reached home, and saw repeated in many newspa-
pers, of this temple being in course of destruction, that the stones might
be used for a new quay, is altogether false. The date of the repol’t
was the same as that of our visit; and no persons were moving stones
when we were there. Whenever they do, they will ﬁnd it easier to
help themselves from the enormous heaps that are lying about, than to
dislodge the blocks of which the temple is built.

The ediﬁces are most massive, wonderful and beatiful; and some of
our part were more impressed by them than by anything we had seen-
Fully a mitting the reasonableness of this, I recurred to the temples of
Egypt, and felt how much stronger was the charm of their antiquity
than that of any architectural magniﬁcence and grace. It is true, this
place is of unknown antiquity; but that is historically, and not visibly-
One remembers that this was a stage in the highway from Tyre 10
India when Palmyra was a mere watering station in the Desert: it!"
what one hears of is its Greek name of Helinpolis: and what one sees
is the buildings of the Roman emperors. I am quite of Captain Man'

L.
L
L

