272 mmau LIFE.

so as that all go to decay but those which have strong claims on the piety
of the Mohammedans. He does not perceive that lands will not be
the better tilled for his seizing on them, while the title deeds are care-
fully concealed, in hope of a favorable change by and by. He does
not see that every man is discouraged from improving his condition
while the bad faith of the government, through the corruption of its
agents, is a matter of course ,—-1he general rule, to which the fellah
and the journeyman ﬁnd no exceptions. The Pasha may, if he can
ﬁnd the means, cover the land with his public works, his schools, his
factories, and his cattle from Dongola , but his people will continue to
decline 1n numbers and resources till he can induce a certain portion
of them to endeavor to improve their own condition. Among his
many enterprises, this, which should have been the ﬁrst, appears never
tohave entered his head. That the population is declining, I have
myself no doubt. One oﬂicial gentleman may point to the plague and
cholera as the causes of a merelygtempOrary depOpulation of particular
spots, which indicates nothing of the condition of the whole country;
and another may reckon Up the new canals made in his time: but these
considerations are no set of)” against the evidence there is of decreasing
numbers, and of the extent of land perpetually going .out of cultivation.
It is clear that the truth will not be learned by means of a census, while
the agents take bribes to set down a greater or smaller number, or have
to make a guess at the population of a village which they ﬁnd deserted.
If the population be decreasing, the fact may be for a while concealed
by stout denial: if it be increasing, the fact must soon show itself, to
the satisfaction 'of everybody, in a country which certainly once con-
tained above three times the number of the present inhabitants, while
exporting food to a wide range of neighboring states. In a country
where there 19 so much more than room for everybody, so mthh fer-
tility ready to every one’ s hand, an increase of population must be
rapid and evident, under circumstances which admit of it at all, and
if, in such a country, there 1s no evident increase, but a general per-
suasion of HS decline, what can be thought of He ruler’ s boast of advancing
, c1v1l1zation '—There was a time when the Nile Valley was regularly
inhabited by a population of 8,000,000. The number of settled in-
habitants is believed to be now not more than 2,500,000; and it is, to
all appearance, still declining, as it has been from the beginning of
the century.

I cannot say that I saw much during my voyage which could serve
as material for an opinion on this subject: but I saw something. I
saw one new canal in Upper Egypt; and, to set against this, 1 saw
many and large tracts of land let out of cultivation, showing evident
signs of former irrigation and drainage, and sprinkled over, or bordered
by ruined cottages or villages. I saw a few factories strUggling for
existence, while it was evident to English eyes that the only security
for their permanency was in the improvement of agriculture ;—the
natural occupation of the Egyptians, and that to which Nature per-
petually invites them, and for which she would reward them, if the
tyranny and bad faith of Man did not interfere. But how is agriculture

