mounts. ”7

men of science. have been brought hither in succession by the unpans-
ing ages to look up into those eyes—so full of meaning, thou b so tired!
We have here a record of the Egyptian complexion, or of the yptians‘
own notion of it, as well as of the characteristic features of the race.
There is red paint on the face. of the same tint as the complexions in
the tombs. The face is (supposin the nose restored) much like the
Berber countenance. The long mils eye. the thick but not rotuberant
lips, (lips like Malibran’s, and like no others that I ever saw tn Europe.)
and the projecting jaw. with the intelligent, gentle expression of the
whole face, are very like what one sees in Nubia at every village.
That man sitting in the fold of the neck was a happy accident. It en-
abled one to estimate proportions, when looking up from below, and to
learn how it was that religious processions marched up between its
paws to the temple sheltered by its breast. I could see how the sane-
tuary and altar of sacriﬁce might very well stand there, so towered over
by the neck and head as that the savor of the sacriﬁces might rise
straight up into its nostrils. The granite tablet above this altar is visi-
ble, peeping out of the sand in the hollow. The ridge of the back is
above and, and I walked along it from the neck to the root of the
tail. I only the (pews could be kept uncovered, it would much improve
our conception 0 this strange work—perhaps, as my journal observes,
the strangest object I ever saw.

While riding away,I turned to give a last look, and was struck with
the ugliness of the scene. The P ramids lessened in height from
north to south, and were scattered a at without evident plan; tombs
yawned in the yellow rocks; the Sphinx lay low, and seemed to belong
to nothing; and the whole vast, desolate circuit of monuments was in-
cumbered by rubbish. This was my last glimpse into the ancient
world, except that I had the obelisk at Heliopolis yet to see. This was
my last clear view into the times of the vanished race. As I turned
my face towards Cairo, the cloud curtain was again drawn over the
living and moving scene which I had studied for so long, and anything
more that I might learn must be by thought and not by sight.

The amount of what one does learn by the eye is very great—really
astonishing in the case of a people whose literature is ost, instead or
remaining as an indication of what one is to look for, and a commentary
on what one sees. What do we not owe to their turn for engraving
and painting! Here is a people remainin on] , as one may say, in
the abstract !—living only in the ideas they ave ueathed to us, and
in the undecayed works of their hands. No one of that great race surb
vives; we have their corpses in plenty, but not a breathing man left of
them all. We do not know what their complexion was; their langua
is lost, except as studious men pick it up, word by word, with pain ul
uncertainty, from an obscure cypher. But, phantoms as they are to us,
how much do they teach us!

They teach us to be modest and patient in regard to our knowledge
of the ancient world, by showing us that while we have been talking
conﬁdently of the six thousand years of human existence, and about
who was who in the earliest days, we have in reality known nething

