310‘ 3mm ran.

and out of it springs, directly before us, the cluster of peaks which is'
now called' Horeb. On this plain were Arabs and goats; and along
shadow was ﬂung across it, below Horeb, from the western mountain.
—Soon, as we speeded over the plain, we came in sight of the convent,
lying beautifully in the deep shadow of Horeb, aslant up the western
sloper—and with tall cypresses and some greener trees springing from
within its fortress-like walls. It was very beautiful from this distance,
—snug in its extremely narrow valley.—We saw to the right, at the
base of the mountain, the second garden of the convent, with cypr‘esses

,and green foliage like the other.—Next, we passed the Arab cemetery,
a crowd of little rude stones.—Then we rode over shelves of rock up
to the convent, and past its inclosnre walls, which are of various dates
and materials, but chieﬂy of large crude brick, with occasional heavy
blocks of stone.—Some travelers' tents were under the walls, and
groups of Arab boys were loitering about. The windlass at the place
of entrance was at work, and two monks looked down upon us from
their terrace on the walls.—Mr. Y. went up by the windlass, after his
letter, to present his respects to the Prior. We looked upon his
swinging ascent with some wonder what we should do, if the other
entrance of which we had heard'should be closed against strangers
now. But a monk soon invited us within a well-secured postern, and
lighted us with his lantern through a dark passage, and then led us
through the green and blossomy and terraced garden, and up from one
stair-case and platform to another, till we arrived at the strangers’
corridor, whence we could overlook much of the curious complication
of buildings and spaces which constitute the interior of the convent of
Mount Sinai."

 

CHAPTER IV.

CONVENT 0F MOUNT SINAI.-—ASCENT 0F DJEBEL MOUSA.—ASCENT
OF HOREB.

THE ﬁrst thing known of the settlement of this place and neighbor-
hood is that the Empress Helena, in the fourth century, built a small
church over the spot where the Burning Bush grew. Who there was
to tell the Empress where the Bush grew, is not known; nor how the
tradition had been preserved for nearly two thousand years. Several
small convents were built in the peninsula, after Helena’s church he-
gan to attract devotees; but the Bedoueens were so dangerous and
troublesome that the Christians of the region petitioned Justinian to
build them a fortiﬁed convent. He sent workmen, Burckhardt tells us,‘
from Constantinople and Egypt, with orders to build an impregnable
monastery on the top of Djebel Mousa.—that peak bein in his day
supposed to be the one from which the Law was given. T ere being no
water at that height, the workmen built the convent in the foot of Horeb,

’ Travels in Syria and the Holy land, p. 545.

