m mas—mam. 157

of asses; some children at play, and two or three men at prayers. As
they faced the east, every gesture of prostration was seen, and every
ﬂow of their majestic garments.-In my childhood, I used to wonder
why Pharaoh’s kine came up out of the water: but now, and often be-
sides, I saw how truly Egyptian this dream was. The cattle often cross
the Nile by swimming,—sometimes resting on a shoal in the middle of
the river. This evening, a noble buffalo kept us in a state of interest
for half an hour by his incessant‘eﬂ'orts to land, and the diﬂicult he
had in doing so. Again and again, he put off, swimming slowly at ut
with only his head. above water; and then he would struggle in the
tenacious mud, and seem to have obtained a footing; and slip back again,
and disappear in the shadow of the bank. Then he would come out
again into the light; the failing light, which was almbst gone before he
was safe. We saw the last shine of it on his sides as he paced slowly
up to the ridge, evidently trembling and exhausted. All things in
Egypt seem to cross their great highway with as little concern as we do
ours. As we walk across a road, they pass through the Nile. Whole
droves of cattle, and sometimes asses and sheep; and children, when-
ever the fancy takes them; and men, with a bundle of milletcstalks
under them, or with a log to lean their breasts against; their clothes,
or their burden of produce, on their heads. We never witnessed any
sign of fear of crocodiles, or heard of any disasters by them, as far as I
remember.

At ﬁve in the morning, we were at the nearest point to the Arment
temple; and I walked the mile and half which lay between the shore
and it with great pleasure, having grass to tread on for the ﬁrst time
for several weeks. There was an air of civilization about the village
which was rather unusual,—-the fences being neatly built of millet-
stalks, tall and thick, and the place supplied with water from a well-
kept pond, fed by a channel from the river. Immediately beyond the
village, we entered the Desert, which was all undulatin with mounds
of broken pottery and other rubbish. The quantity of roken pottery
about these places remained a mystery to us to the last. In a hollow
among these mounds lie the ruins of the Christian Church, which was
itself built, it is thought, from the materials afforded by the larger tem-
ple of Hermonthis. , These ruins consist of some portions of wall, very
massive from the size of the blocks; much strewn stone, and a con-
siderable number of prostrate columns, of red granite. A little further
on stand the remaining pillars of Cleopatra’s temple; eight altogether,
in the area and portico. The remains are miserably obstructed and
deformed by the mud artition and huts which have taken shelter
under the sculptured walls and painted roofs of the temple: but one is
less concerned about it here than in almost any other case; for the
ediﬁce is, as I said, of no older time than CleOpatra’s. The witch-
queen still interests us enough to make us run after every memorial of
her. The many who know her onl through Shakspeare hunt for her
portrait-ﬁgure at Philce before they look for Osiris and Isis: and they
come here to see the hundred representations of her, sitting with the
little Caution on her knees,-—(in honor of whose birth this temple was

