280 mm

ever saw its central ﬁgure would be quite justiﬁed in chasing these
Christians with low idolaters. It may be well to look into these places,
to learn to be just towards the originals of other corrupted faiths, whose
symbols may no more represent their primitive ideas than these Coptic
pictures represent Christianity.

On Saturday the 20th, the weather was suitable for our ﬁrst attempt
at camel-riding; and we went to the Nilometer. We had committed the
ordering of the apparatus to those whose business it was, and who were
supposed to understand the matter: and they had prepared for Mrs. Y.
«and me wooden boxes or chairs, instead of saddles. In these we set
out from the Hotel d’Orient. The swaying motion, and the being car-
ried as dead weight, were excessively disagreeable, and especially to
one so fond of riding as I am. Being carried on a camel is too little
like riding at best: but while one is on a saddle, and holds a rein, one
may amuse oue’s self with the semblance: but the being carried in a
chair permits no such relief. Moreover, it is impossibleso to fasten on
the chair as that it shall never slip in the least on one side; and the lean-
ing sensation is intolerable. It seemed very doubtful to me how long
I could support this method of traveling; and I wondered what was to
be done if my companion and I should have to protest against it in the
middle of the Desert. Happily we were seen by Linsnt Bey, whom
we met at dinner afterwards, at the Consul General’s. He has traveled
over more miles of desert than almost any civilized man, and knows all
about it: and he told us at once that we must leave our chairs behind,
and adopt such a method of cushioning our saddles as he would instruct
us in. Before dinner was over, he was sent for, to follow the Pasha
up the river immediately: but his instructions set us on our camels to
t he best advantage. I ofteneafterwards rejoiced that he had chanced to
see us that day.

We met in this ride two or three sons of Ibraheem Pasha’s—gentle-
manly and lively-looking boys. We crossed by a ferry boat to the
island of Roda, to see the Nilometer, which I was surprised to ﬁnd a
very pretty place ;--a damp, dim chamber, tufted with water weeds :—
steep stairs down into it; and a green pool and mud at the bottom :—-
in the centre, a graduated pillar:—in the four sides of the chamber,
four pointed arches—one ﬁlled in with an elegant grating :—round the
cornice, and over the arches, Cutie inscriptions; and in two of the
niches, within the arches, similar inscriptions. The crypt-like aspect
of the chamber, with its aquatic adornments of weeds and mosses—so
perfectly in accordance with its purpose—was charming, the charm
being aided perhaps by a sense of the unique character of the place.
I need not say that we did not see the base of the graduated pillar.
We are told that it is never seen, even when the Nile is at the lowest,
the yearly nominal cleaning out leaving yet a considerable deposit of
mud. We were glad to have seen the Nilometer; and this was our
last sight-seeing at Cairo—unless it was the Ezbelteeyeh, the next day.

The great square of the Ezbekeeyeh is always gay on Sundays, when
the Franks walk there after church, and the Mohammedans sit smoking
in groups to watch them. Some of the returned pilgrims further enli-

