102 nuns urn.

Moses had gained, an immortal wisdom from their lips. The methods
of learning of these two men, and their acquisitions, differed according
to the differing characteristics of their minds. Each took from his
teachers what he could best apprOpriate. Moses was spiritualized to
a wonderful degree, considering his position and race; but his surpass-
ing eminence was as a redeeming legislator. Plato had deeply-con-
sidered views on political matters; but his surpassing eminence was as
a spiritual philos0pher. Moses redeemed a race of slaves, made men
of them, organized them into a society, and constituted them a nation;
while Plato did only theoretical work of that kind,—enough to testify
to the political philosophy of Egypt, but not to affect the condition of
Greece. But Plato taught the Egyptian doctrine (illustrated on the
tombs ages before, and, as .Proclus declares, derived by Plato from
Egypt) of the Immortality of the Soul, and rewards and punishments
in an after-life. This was what Plato taught that Moses did not. The
great old Egyptian doctrine, extending back, as the Book of Genesis
shows us, as far as the Egyptian traditions reached—the great doctrine
of a Divine Moral Government, was the soul alike of the practical legis-
lation of Moses and the speculative philosophy of Plato; and this is, as
it seems to us now, their great common qualiﬁcation for hearing such
a part as each does in the constitution of the prevalent Christianity.—
We shall have to return to this hereafter, when we have seen more of
the Egyptian priesthood. Meantime, I may observe, that unless there
is other evidence that Plato visited the Jews than the amount of Juda-
ism in his writings, it does not seem necessary to suppose such a visit.
If he passed thirteen years beside that fountain of wisdom where Moses
dwelt till his manhood, it is not extraordinary that they should have
great Ideas in common. The wonder would be if they had not. The
intellectual might of Moses seems to show that the lapse of intervening
ages had not much changed the character of the schools: and the result
on the respective minds of the two students may have been much the
same as if they had sat side by side in bodily presence, as they ever
will do in the reason of all who faithfully contemplate the operation of
the Christian religion on the minds of men, from the beginning till
now.—That Plato derived and adopted much from his predecessors
among Greek philos0phers, is very evident: and from Pythagoras above
all. But many of these Greek philosophers had been trained in Egypt;
and especially, as we have seen, Pythagoras, whose abstract ideas
would appear to be displayed in a course of illustration on the walls
of the Theban tombs, if we did not know that these tombs, with all
their pictured mysteries, had been closed many centuries before the
philosopher was born.

During all our review of the old Egyptians, we have not yet con-
sidered who they were. Of this there is little to say. It is useless to
call them Copts; because all we can say of the Copts is that we must
suppose them to be of the same race originally as the old Egyptians;
and this throws no light on the derivation of either. Speaking of the
origin of the Colchians, Herodotus says, that the Egyptians believed
them to be descended from followers of Sesostris; and that he thought

