PETRA. 349

rock-dwellers, but failed to perceive that what remain are the. mere
debris of what the precipices once presented to view. An observant
eye may detect remnants of stucco ornaments very high up many rocks,
and in great numbers. Again, many of the excavations are so difﬁcult
to reach, and some are such mere walls or surfaces, that it appears as
if the whole front of the rock, to a considerable depth, had fallen : and
in these places there was usually that extraordinary gaudiness of color-
ing which marks the more friableportions of the rock;—that. is, those
portions where, exposure to the air having begun, the oxide of iron in
the rock carries on the decomposition. In these places, a ﬁnger end.
will bring down whole handfuls of sand. Where the rock is dun-co-
lored, the surface is usually well hardened. ‘ Again, the conduits, cis-
terns, and ﬂights of steps scattered over the rocks and among the preci- _
pices indicate a larger number of rock dwellings than remain now—
very great as that number is. t , ‘ ,

And how very great it is!“ I began with a notion that I should like
to count them; having read that they were about two hundred. With
this two hundred running in my head (as one never gets over believing
what one reads) I continued for some days to think of these rock-abodes as
computable by hundreds, till I was startled by hearing one of the gentle-
men wonder how many thousands there were. We were sitting on a rock
at the moment: and as he pointed up two or three ravines, counting the
holes in a single rock face, and reminded me how small a pr0portion
these bore to the whole, I was indeed astonished. I could not admit
the full extentof the marvel at the moment: but I soon saw that he was
right. Dr. Robinson says,“ “The most striking feature of the place
consists, not in the fact that there are occasional excavations, and sculp-
tures like those above described; but in the innumerable multitude of
such excavations, along 'the whole extent cf perpendicular rocks adja-
cent to the main area, and in the lateral valleys and chasms; the en-.
trances of very many of which are variously, richly, and often fantasti-
cally decorated, with every imaginable order and style of architecture.
The cliﬂ's upon the east an west present the largest and most continuous
surfaces; and here the tombs are most numerous. But the spur from
the eastern cliﬂ‘s . . . as well as other smaller spurs and promontories,
and single groups of rocks, both in the north and south, are also occupied
in like manner. All these sepulchres, of course, looked down upon the
city of the living; but others again are found in retired dells and secret
chasms, or sometimes among the heights on either side, to which ﬂights
of steps cut in the rock lead up in several places.” Dr. Robinson’s
conclusion that these excavations were all tombs, except the few which
might have been temples, appeared to us on the spot very extraordinary.
Elsewhere, rock tombs are, or have been, sealed up—contain, or have
contained, dead bodies, and may be counted by dozens to a large city,
each containing many bodies. Here, they are standing wide open; no
dead bod (except of a modern Arab or two) has ever been found in
them, an they exceed any number of houses that the area of the city

' Biblical Researches, II. 529.

