noses s'r noun-r max. 310

And'I did so see Sinai, during the memorable Sunday we spent there.
Turning my back on the convent, and forgetting the wretched supersti-
tions of the monks, I looked abroad that day with the eyes of a disciple
of Moses, who had followed. his footsteps from Memphis hither; and I
saw more than by many years’ reading of the Pentateuch at home.
How differently the Pentateuch here reads, from the same worn old
Bible which one has handled for ﬁve-and-twenty years, I could not have
imagined. The light from Egypt and Arabiashining into it illuminates
unthought-of places, and gives a new and most fresh coloring to the
whole. I little thought ever to have seen so much of Moses as I did
this day, within sight of Arab tents, like those in which he and Zipporah
and their children lived when ﬁrst here with Jethro’s ﬂocks; within
sight of the same peaks which were landmarks to the wandering tribes;
and of the same wadees where they rested, and surrounded by the
very same mountain springs- whence they brought water for themselves
and their ﬂocks. The wells within the convent seem to have been
always inexhaustible; yet I dare say some of the Hebrew women
and children discovered the ice-cold spring behind, which has no
doubt lain in its shadowy nook since Horeb was upreared. I wonder
whether it was fringed with ferns when the Hebrew women saw it, as
. it is now. It was a tempting place for gossip,—for sitting down in the
shade to talk over the comforts of Goshen, and the verdure of Egypt,
and pointing out the dreariness of this place, andreminding one an-
other how unwilling they and their husbands had been to leave Egypt,
foreseeing that they should only get into trouble by trying a new
country."t In yonder plain was thewcrowd of dark, low tents, with
no tabernacle yet in the midst. Among the neighboring wadees were
the herdsmen dispersed, tending their ﬂocks every day of the week;
for as yet there was no Sabbath. This, and very much more did I see
on that Sunday at Sinai; much that I could not have seen if I had been
a cotemporary disciple of Moses ;A-much that'can be seen only by the
light of an after age, of the educational purposes and processes for which
the Hebrews were brought here. ‘

Here, in some nook which had been his haunt while watching his
ﬂocks, sat Moses in those da 3, overlooking the ﬂock which he was
now to lead as the Shepherd 0 Men. How intense must have been his
sense of solitude here! No longer learning, in congenial companion-
ship, “ all the wisdom of the Egyptians," but alone,-—he the only wise
and the only earnest man among a multitude who had no wisdom and
no virtue ;—he, a man of ﬁne organization, of gentle rearing, of timid
nature, “looking before and after," and overwhelmed with what he
saw,-—how could he sustain himself under his charge ? Without it‘-
reverence, we may attribute to him the sustaining thought which was
uttered by one long after him: “ the world hath not known thee; but I
have known thee.” Retired into the mountain to pray, he saw be-
neath him,—nott the gleaming lake, on whose shores were those whom

' Exodus XIV . 12.-“ Is not this the word that we did tell thee in Egypt, saying, -
let us alone, that we may serve the Egyptians?”

