00 Inverts LIFE.

The guardian colossi are mighty creatures, with their massive
shoulders and serene heads rising out of the ground. A third helmet
is visible; and among the Arab huts near, a fourth. We saw here for
the ﬁrst time columns with the lotus-shaped capitals; the capitals being
painted, and the blossoms, buds and leaves which ﬁlled up the outline
being very distinct. One test of the massive character of the work
was curious. A huge block of the architrave has fallen from its place,.
and rests on the rim of the cup of the lotus, without breaking it. We
were now introduced to some of the details of Egyptian architecture,
and to some of its great. separate features: but all unity of impression
was obviated by the intrusion of the mud huts which are plastered up
against the ruins throughout their range. When we came down the
river, and had become familiar with the structure of Egyptian temples,
we could make out the plan of this, and somewhat discharge from view
the blemishes which spoiled everything now. But at present, we were
not qualiﬁed, and we carried away a painful impression of confusionas
well as ruin.

As we sailed away, I obtained another view of the Pair; and I
watched them till Icould hardly tell whether it was distance or the
dusk which hid them at last. .

The wind carried us on well: too well; for a stay of the foremast
gave way; and this hindered our progress. The calm and pathetic-
looking Rais rushed towards us, vociferated, and pulled Mr. E. by the
wrist to the forepart, to see the crack,—of which Mr. E., with all his
eXperience in such matters, thought little. The Rais, however, is re-
sponsible for the condition of the boat, and he feared that the owner
would “ cut his neck off” if anything ’was carried away. So we
moored to the bank, and some little nails were driven in, so as to do
no good whatever; and then it came out that the Rais wanted to stop
here for the night. We so protested against this that he appeared to
yield; but at the end of a mile or so, he drove us decisively into the

eastern bank.

' As I was walking the deck before tea, I saw two lights moving up
under the opposite bank; and supposed them to be from Selim Pasha’s
boats. They crossed the stream, however; and the boats they be-
longed to drove into the bank so immediately behind us as to lift our
rigging. It was our Scotch friends, and the American party. The
gentlemen immediately exchanged visits ; and our own party brought
us some amusement when they returned. Mr. E.’s ﬁrst exclamation,
as he threw down his hat, was, “ What a lucky fellow that is ! He
has shot a crocodile.” “ And why not, if he carries 'ball ?” “ Ah ! I
should have brought ball. He has done it very cleverly, though."
And when the Scotchman returned the call after tea,‘we found that he
had indeed done a difﬁcult and hazardous feat very well : and he was
in possession of the stuffed hide as a trophy.

The next morning, we had an amusement which seemed ridiculous
enough in the Thebaid, but certainly rather exciting ;-—a boat race.
When I came on deck, the Scotch gentlemen were just mounting the
bank, with their fowling pieces; and their crew and ours were pre-

