78 means am.

with the aspect of the island, before returning to explore the remains
in due order.—We had seen nothing more beautiful anywhere than
what was before us this evening on our departure by moonlight. The
pillars of the open temple ﬁrst, and then the massive prOpyla of the
great temple stood up against the soft, clear sky, and palms fringed
every bank, and crowned every little eminence. The wildness of the
rocky boundary was lost by this light. We felt that we had, for the
present, done with rapids and islands: we were fairly in Nubia, and
were now passing into the broad full stream of the Nile, here calmer
than ever, from being so near the dam of the islands. The Lybian
range shone distinctly yellow by moonlight. I thought that I had
never heard of color by moonlight before ; and I was sure I had never
seen it. Now my eyes feasted on it night by night. The effect of
palm clumps standing up befOre these yellow back-grounds, which are
themselves bounded by a line of purple hills, with silver stars hanging
above them, and mysterious heavenly lights gushing up from behind
all, exceeds in rich softness any coloring that sunshine can show.

 

CHAPTER VIII.
NUBIA.—THE SECOND CATABACT.

WE were not long in ﬁnding how different Nubia is from the lower
part of the N ile valley, both in its aspect and its people. We
soon began to admire these poor Berbers, for their industry and thrift,
their apparent contentment, and their pleasant countenances. The
blue underlip of the women, some tattoo marks here and there,
nose rings, and hundreds of tiny braids of hair, all shining and some
dripping with castor oil, might seem likely to make these people ap-
pear ugly enough to English eyes: but the open good humor of most
of their countenances. and the pathetic thoughtfulness of many, ren-
dered them interesting, I may say shaming to us ;—to say nothing of
the likeness we were constantly tracing in them to the most ancient
sculptured faces of the temples. The dyed underlip was the greatest
drawback; perhaps from its having a look of disease. The women
wore silver bracelets almost universally; and a quantity of bead neck-
laces. They swathed themselves suﬂiciently in their blue garments
without covering their faces. The men were very little clothing: the
children, for the most part, none at all, except that the girls had a sort
of leather fringe tied round the loins. Sometimes the people would
run away from us, or be on the start to do so, as we were walking on
the shore. Sometimes the women would permit us to bid for their
necklaces, or would offer matting or baskets for sale. Sometimes we
found their huts empty,—left open while the family were out at work:
and we were glad of such an opportunity of examining their dwellings,
and forming some notion of their household economy.

The ﬁrst we entered in the absence of the inmates was a neat

