182 names mm.

the serpent has lion’s paws, instead of human feet, as qual. The
“ justifying” goddess stands at the lower end of the descent.

We next come to a small chamber which almost any one but Belzoni
would have taken to be the extremity of the excavation. Its walls
were all painted, and it had every appearance of completeness: and a
deep pit in face of the entrance passage would have been concluded to
be the place of burial. This pit, however, was a well: and it was dug
there to draw off the waters which would otherwise injure, and which
since have injured, the interior chambers. Belzoni ﬁlled up this pit;
not knowing its purpose. He spied a hole in the wall, and, striking it,
found it sounded hollow. He and his companions brought avpalln
trunk to bear on it, and battered it down; ﬁnding immediately that the
best part of this wonderful tunnel was before them.

In the chamber to which the pit belongs, the King Osirei is seen
making offerings to Osiris, and to some less conspicuous deities. It is
in this chamber that an immeasurable serpent of considerable thickness,
winds round the walls in a curious and rather elegant involution: and
I think it is in the next that a serpent bier extends continuously round
nearly half the walls, bearing a Series of prostrate mummies. In ano-
ther place, instead of mummies, the serpent supports human heads,—
the headless bodies in some cases remaining near, and in other cases,
being absent. The strangest use I saw made of the serpent in any old
monument was here, where it was double-headed, and wore the crowns
of the two Egypts,—Upper and Lower,—and had two pairs of human
legs, walking opposite ways,—a dove being perched in the bend of its
body. Sometimes the serpent is winged; and two, uniting their necks
to support a disk, wonderfully resembled a caduceus.-—ln one instance,
where an enormous serpent is carried by the gods, Champollion says
it is the great Apophis, enemy of the sun, who is overcome and carried
away captive; a suggestion which the Greeks were not slow to adopt.
And it is impossible to look upon these representations of the Ierpent;
of the tree of life, of which those who ate were made as gods; of the
moving spirit of the Creator, and of the universally prevalent ideas of
the original spread of water; the separation of the land from the water; ‘
the springing of vegetation, and the sudden appearance of animals on
the new surface; and the separation of the upper airinto regions of
abode, without seeing whence was derived the ﬁrst of the two accounts
of the creation given in the Book of Genesis ;*—-that in which, not
Jehovah, but the Elohim were engaged, who would be understood by
the Egyptian instructors of Moses to be Kneph and Phthah;—the
Presiding Spirit, and the Forming Intellect of the Supreme. The other,
and very different, account? has little that is Egyptian in its character,
and was probably not learned at Heliopolis or 'I‘hebeI.

In the hall through the ﬁrst chamber is the curious group of four
kinds of people (four of each) which has excited so much speculation,
but which Champollion believed that he understood plainly enough.
Ra, the Sun, stands behind the sixteen ﬁgures, who are not captives,

' Genesis, 1.; II. 1, 2, 3. 1' Genesis, 11. 4—25.

 

 

