are manure.

about it. They rebuke us suﬁciently in showing us that at that time
men were living very much as we do, without some knowledge that we
have gained, but in possession of some arts which we have not. They
confound us by their mute exhibitions of their iron tools and steel ar-
mor, their great range of manufactures, and their feasts and sports, so
lilre our own. In their kitchens they decant wine by a syphon,and
strew their sweet cakes with seeds, and pound their spices in a mm.
In the drawing-room, they lounge on chaises-longues, and the ladies
knit and net as we do, and darn better than we can. I saw at Dr. Ab-
bott’s a piece of mending left unﬁnished several thousand years ago,
which any Englishwoman might be satisﬁed with or proud of. In the
nursery the little girls had dolls—jointed dolls, with bunchy hair and
long eyes—as our dolls have blue eyes and fair trusses. And the h-
bies had, not the woolly bow-wow dogs which yelp in our nurseriﬂ.
but little wooden crocodiles with snapping jaws. In the country we
see the agriculturist taking stock, and in the towns the population
divided into castes, subject to laws, and livi under a tbeocracy, long
before the supposed time of the Deluge. here is enough here to
teacﬁtI us some humility and patience about the true history of the
wor .

We almost lose sight of the evidences of their ways that they have
left us in recognizing the Ideas that they have recorded and transmit-
ted. Here the were, nearl two thousand years before the birth of
Abraham, worshiping One upreme God, and owning him for their
king, appointing for his agent and chief servant as their ruler, a priest
whom the called his son. They recognized his moral government-j-
always stnctly a moral government, through how many hands secret!t
might be administered—whether those 0 his personiﬁed attributes. 01‘
those of his human instruments. The highest objects set before these
people were purity of life and rectitude of conduct. Their higheﬁ
aspirations were directed to the ory and favor of God in this lifeﬂnfl
acceptance by him hereafter. heir conceptions of death were that it
was a to an eternal existence, where a divine benefactor, soul
to dispense the mercies of the Supreme, had gone before them, haﬂng
submitted to death, in order to overcome the power of evil, and who
had, therefore, been raised from among the dead, when his probatton
in Hades was ended, and made the eternal Judge of the living and ll”
dead. These whom be judged favorably had their names writteltm
the book of life, and were brought to taste of the tree of Life. Which
would make them to be as gods; after which they were to enjoy Such
bliss as it has not entered into men’s hearts to conceive. The wick
were meanwhile to undergo shame and anguish till they had expiatod
the very last sin, or were to be destroyed.

They believed the creation to have taken place as they annually 8"
re-creation take place. They said that the Spirit of the Supra!“0
moved on the face of the waters; and that the d land appeared 3‘
his bidding, yielding vegetation ﬁrst, and then anim They believed
in a substantial ﬁrmament, wherein the sun and mom were p ,
which were privileged to travel, with the spirit- of the virtuous in “I“

