480 was: am.

tervention of death.‘ A spiritual kingdom was to be established which
should supersede the Law: but the Law was to be carefully maintained
till then. He did not come to overthrow the Law and Prophets; but
to fulﬁl them. His present mission was to restore the Mosaic system
to its purity; to rebuke the legal pedantry of the Pharisees, and dis-
countenance their preference of the oral Iaw over the written; to re-
vive the soul and spirit of the Mosaic dis ensation, in preparation for
its abolition and his second coming? A ter that second coming. his
immediate followers were to be the Judges of his kingdom, sitting on
twelve thrones, to judge the tribes of lsrael.1 Of the precise time
when this should happen, he declared that he knew nothing. God
alone knew this: but he himself could say only that that generation
should not pass away till all this was fulﬁlled.§—-When that generation
had passed away, and the destruction was found to be limited tothe
conquest of the land and nation by the Romans, the record of what was
said on this spot on Olivet was naturallyreferred to a still future com-
ing of Jesus: and it is known that this expectation troubled the Church
and its rulers for some centuries, though, through the junction of the
Oriental and Jewish philosophers, and the spread from Alexandria of t
Platonizing Christianity,a more and more deﬁnite reference of this dis-
course to a still future state of the human soul, excluding the doctrineof
the resurrection of the body, gained ground. In ages when the study d
the Sacred Records was conﬁned to a small number of readers,and
when those readers were of a class whose minds were sephisticated
by the converging philosophies and superstitions of many nations and
times, it may not be wonderful that so plain a statement of the expec-
tations of Christ,—or of his recorders’ understanding of them,-—should
have been slighted or perverted: but now that the records are in the
hands of all men, and that men are learning that the Scriptures are re-
cords and not oracles, it seems impossible that there should be much
more dispute about as clear and plain a statement as ever was penned.

No one spot of the Holy Land can be more interesting to a pilgrim
than this. There can be no doubt of the incidents recorded. It in
narrative which could not have been written but from the life. In many
other parts of the narratives selected for the use of the world from the
great number written in the ﬁrst generation, we have to remember and
consider well the position and minds of the writers, the lapse of time
during which fresh ideas had been ﬂowing in upon them, and the cola
their narratives must inevitably take from the character of the W
for whom they were written, in order to see as the writers saw, and to
deduce from their various statements the intermediate truth by which
we must abide. In general, it is no light work for the sincere and re-
verent mind to read the gospel history, so as to come within reach of
the actual voice of Jesus, and listen to it among the perplexing echoes
of his place and time ;-—to separate it from the Jewish construction «I

' Matt. XXIV. 30, 31; Mark XIII. 26, 27; Luke XXI. 27; 1 Thessalonians
IV. 15—17. 1 Matt. V. 17—20.
Matt. XIX. 28.
Matt XXIV. 34, 36; Mark XIII. 30; Luke XX]. 32.

 

