me CAVE or renew. 413

fanely named after him who came to teach, not “ cunningly devised
fables,” but that men should love their Father in Heaven with all their
hearts and minds, and their neighbor as themselves. The Egyptian
theology and Greek philosophy were proper to their times, and vene-
rable on that account, as the strongest light that men had reached: but,
reproduced'with adulterations in Jerusalem, and used to take Christ’s
name in vain, they were as aﬂlicting as the original records of the
ideas in Egypt were interesting. 'I'heimarks of the kissing of the tomb
of St. James in this Armenian convent showed what the quality of the
devotion here was.-—The diﬂ'erent churches in Jerusalem divide among
them the objects which attract strangers. In this convent are shown
the stone which closed the Holy Sepulchre; the “ prison of Christ ;”
the spot where Peter denied his Lord, and the court where the'cock
crew: this being on the opposite side of the city from Fort Antonia
and the residence of Pilate! The Armenian Patriarchs of Jerusalem
are buried here: and near, are the cemeteries of all the Christian con-
vents, where it is interesting to read the names ‘of Englishmen who,
without the wish entertained by pious Jews, have been destined toﬁnd
their long rest here.

Near this place, just within the Zion Gate, are the huts ' of the
Lepers. We passed them many times, and never without seeing the
poor outcasts, sitting by the wayside to ask charity. All their lives
long, they have no society beyond their own miserable company: and
these intermarry, so that there are children born into their cursed life,
born to give their parents something to hepe for a few years, and
then to show the disease, and die by inches under it.

Returning by the Jew Quarter, we looked into the synagogue,-—I
ﬁnding my way to the women's gallery, to the great surprise of some
Jewesses who were gossiping on the ground, not far 06'. Only one
woman was in the gallery; and nothing interesting was going forward.

When the gentlemen returned from church, the next day, (Sunday,
April 4th,) we enjoyed a delightful ramble. We left the city by the
Damascus ate, and came to one of those beautiful pools which I was
always gla to fall in with. It was called the Sheepopool; and it lies
dim under arches in the rock, whence hang long strings of weeds,
ready to wave with the ﬁrst breath of wind. An Arab was ﬁllin his
waterskins there, his red tarboosh casting a light in among the sh owy
waters and green ferns. I ran down to this pool, whenever we passed
that way ; and I always found some such picture there.

Our present ob'ect was the Cave of Jeremiah, which we approached
over the open ﬁe d. We were now on the ground of Titus’s camp.
Here lay “ the abomination of desolation” at that terrible time. Here
rang the armor and sounded the heavy tread of the cohorts; and here
the ground shook when the wooden towers of the Romans were pushed
up against the walls, that Jew and Roman might tight face to face from
the walls and from these towers. This was the only side on which
the city could be attacked, the other three being surrounded by ravines.
On this north side, therefore, the whole army was encamped, except
one legion which occupied the lower slope of the Mount of Olives. I

