400 names use.

the Baptist’s home,—“ in the hill country of Judea."-—Jesns was for
some time a disciple of John, with evidently no thought. at that period,
of a higher destiny for himself. From this, from the celibacy of both,
(otherwise a fault and reproach among the J ews,) from the omission
of all rebuke of this sect alone, and from his incessant promulgation of
the Essene doctrine and morality, it appears that those scholars are
probably right who believe that Jesus received, like thousands of the
Jewish youth of his day, his training from the Essence. The number
of the professed Essenes at that time was four thousand in Palestine;
and these were the teachers of a multitude of the next generation. In
Egypt, the sect was much larger.

There is no need to point out the faults and dangers of the
Essene institutions. They were the same as are found in all forms of
monastic life, and all schemes of mystical religion. While admiri
the singular beauty (so endeared to us by our Christian association:
of their principles of worship, affection and action, we see in their
celibacy and other asceticism, and their uniform rule of life for all
comers, the same liabilities and errors as belong to monastic life every-
.where, under all systems of faith. In the somewhat ascetic, and en-
tirely non-resistant character which the Glad Tidings of Jesus derived
from this element of their origin, we certainly see the prophecy of the
rise of Mohammedanism in the world, and its temporary spread -to a
wider extent than its parent Christianity: but we are at the same time
struck.with the glorious liberality of those Glad Tidings, and their
exemption from all the errors and extravagances which were incorpo-
rated with the Essene scheme and its workings.

During the infancy and growth of all these sects, political events
succeeded one another, of such a kind, and in such an order, as to
bring a great accession of ideas to the Jewish mind, and cause a wide
association with the minds of other countries.

Alexander the Great came, after his destruction of Tyre, (s. c. 332,)
.to chastise Jerusalem, because the High Priest had pleaded his oath of
allegiance to Darius. He was met on the heights of Sapha, within
view of Jerusalem, by the High Priest and a long train of attendant
priests, and citizens in white garments, who came forth to set before
the conqueror the claims and the threats of Jehovah: and then, as the
history tells,‘ he did what he afterwards did when a similar train met
him from Memphis :—he went out to meet' the High Priest Jaddua,
and adored the Name inscribed on his mitre, declaringto his Greek
attendants that what he worshiped was not the minister of Jehovah,
but the great God whom he represented. And here, as afterwards in
honor of Amun, he sacriﬁced in honor of the Supreme God, and se-
cured to the people the enjoyment of their own laws and their accus-
tomed privileges. Parmenio was by his side; and many Greek phi-
losOphers and learned men in his train, who freely associated with the
higher classes of the Jews.—And then ensued that period of Egyptian
protection,—sixty years of repose while the Jews paid tribute to the

’ Josephus, Antiq. XL, 8, 4, 5.

