nszm'rn. 469

No place in Palestine satisﬁed me more entirely than Nazareth. Much
as one’s associations require, it is all there; and one’s ﬁrst and constant
emotion here is of thankfulness that Jesus was reared amidst such
natural beauty. Fifteen hills congregate to form the basin in which
Nazareth lies ;—a basin of fertility, high up among the hills,—not deep
enough for extreme heat, at. a breezy elevation,-‘-and abundantly
watered by springs in the rock, and streams from the surrounding
heights. The town lies at one end of this oblong depression; and
some of its buildings stretch a little way up a slope. Before the town,
lies a little green plain, where we longed to pitch our tents; but the
servants apprehended rain, and we were conducted to the Latin Con-
vent. The guest-chambers there had been taken possession of by the
oﬁcers of the Harlequin,—-the gentlemen we had met at the Consul’s
at Jerusalem: but they insisted on giving them u to us. Our quar-
ters were so comfortable , that we had no drawbac but the shame of
turning out our predecessors, who had had worse than no rest the night
before, after the strong exercise of riding over the hills in the way pe-
culiar to British sailors. Icould scarcely keep my saddle, the next day,
for laughing at the sight of the middies, spurring and tugging,—stoop-
ing to the very mane, and letting their ﬂaps ﬂy like a pair of wings.
The steeper the hill-side, the faster they must go; and the wilder and
more desperate they were, the more wretched looked their confounded
dra oman. They gave him no rest of body or mind. When I heard
lately that one of the party had boasted in his letters home that he had
killed off three horses in that trip, I wondered whether they had al-
lowed themselves an equal proportion of dragomen.. Their method of
riding, however, whatever we may otherwise think of it, certainly en-
hanced their merit in giving up their apartments to us, when they must
have so much needed rest.

The Latin Convent is the largest building in Nazareth; but it is not
disagreeably conspicuous,-—the other abodes being, however poorly in-
habited, substantially built. ,We went immediately to the Church of
the Convent,—the Church of the Annunciation.

I cannot say what is the reason; but it certainly appears that a visit
to this church is something very different from attendance on other con-
vent worship in Palestine. One traveler after another,-the man of the
world, the Protestant divine, the glib narrator, and the scientiﬁc histo-
rian,——have testiﬁed without concert to the emotions excited by the
worship of this church. No doubt, the locality is supremely interest-
ing; but that would rather indispose me, for one, for a favorable im-
pression from any of the artiﬁcial features of the place. The church
is small and plain, compared with many others, though with handsome
hangings, and certainly quite enough of show. The earnestness of the
monks, and the beauty of the music have much to do with the impres-
sion, no doubt. The chanting is very ﬁne. It was certainly the best
music we heard while abroad. The spectacle was strange when the
choristers came down, and kneeled on the pavement beside me, and
uncovered their heads at the elevation of the Host ;--the marked Arab

