322 ass-rm an.

declared to them as a patriarchal, and was henceforth to be a national
God, but through a Name. The ﬁrst request recorded to be made by
Moses was to be commissioned to declare a Name to the people: an in-
cident which shows how completely they had lost the knowledge of
One God, and how thoroughly polytheistic were their religious ideas.“E
And these were the people whom he had to bring into a clear moral
relation with one divine Ruler, under such deﬁnite sanctions as should
keep their minds from going astray among various objects of worship!
No wonder it was long,—-—many generations—before they conceived of
Jehovah as more than a National God. He was the God of their fathers,
and their own: better and stronger than the gods of other nations,—
and even their over-ruler: but still, the God of none but the Hebrews:
—the benefactor of the children of Abraham, but the enemy of the
Egyptians and the Canaanites.

In this last belief. it is clear that they were not contradicted or dis-
couraged. In establishing a clear moral relation between them and One
Divine Ruler, it was necessary to keep them out of the way of danger
from the two most populous and civilized countries in the world,—
Egypt and Canaan. Here they were withdrawn into the Desert
which lay betWeen the abstract polytheism of the Egyptians and the
elementary worship of the Canaanites; but their minds were full of
the remembrance of the one: and they must soon (as Moses then sup-
' posed) come into the sight of the other. Besides attaching them to
their God, it was evidently thought needful by him that they should
consider their God to be the enemy of their enemies, in the land they
the had left and that to which they were going. And thus was Jehovah
God of the Hebrews alone for so long a time, that it is difﬁcult to learn
from the history when the Jewish nation even began to be prepared for
the nobler theological views presented by Christ. Low, in the compa-
rison, as the ancient conception appears, we need only place ourselves
back in the time of the Exodus to see how new and how mighty was
the idea of the Supreme being a tutelary god. As we all know, it was
too new and too mighty for the Hebrew mind of the time.

As for the form which the relation between Jehovah and his people
wasto take, that was in entire agreement with the training of the
mind of Moses, and the conceptions and needs of the people. The
'only form in which a divine government could be recognized in those
days, in Egypt or elsewhere, was that of a theocracy. The individual
called king, in Egypt and elsewhere, was a priest; a vicegerent of the
local god. But while these kings ruled in the name of the gods, and
had the advantage of their authority, they appropriated to themselves
the honors and privileges of royalty, and eclipsed to the people any
sacred light which might have visited them from a direct relation with
anything divine. The noble, venerable, inestimable distinction between

‘ As Lord Bacon observes, “The Indians of the west have names for their par-
ticular gods, though they have no name for God: as if the heathens should have had
the names of Jupiter, Apollo, Mars, 820., but not the word Data; which shows, that
even those barbarous people have the notion, though they have not the latitude and
extent of it."-—Essay 16M, 0] Atheism.

