878 sass-m urn.

horse. He told me that he had declined it repeatedly, but that “some
men have greatness thrust upon them,” and he found it best to accept
his at lad. This was our ﬁnal day with Hussein. He was to be paid
03' in the evening; and this was his way, we supposed, of raking up
matters before parting with the greatest man in Europe.

We had now begun to observe that cleared ﬁelds, fenced with stone
walls, were on our left hand. The ploughed ﬁelds had a deep yellow
soil. And soon came vineyards and olive-grounds, where the shadows
of the spreading trees were cast on a soil of deep red. The vines ap-
peared very old; but we liked the Hebron wine which we afterwards
tasted. In almost every vineyard was a tower, built of the stones which
lay about :—a place for the watchman and the tools, I believe. And here
we were already among those natural commentaries on the Gospel which
we henceforth met with from day to day. Here, before us, men had
“digged a wine-press, and built a tower.”

But on this spot the mind of the gazer is or ought to be carried back
far beyond the time when there began to be vineyards hereat all; to
the time when the whole of this expanse of country was pasture land,
and the ﬂocks were on the hills, and the herdsmen, abiding in the ﬁeld
by night, worshiped the stars. Here, in those da , was that worship
of the Sun whose traces we were to meet with thioughout the rest of
our journey. Here, upon the plain of Mamre, nothing was more natural
than such worship to men who, living in tents in wide pasture lands,
with the brilliant sky of the East overhead, saw sun and moon daily
rise behind the mountains of Moab, and go down" towards the sea, to
let the dews descend and freshen the grass of the pastures. Here it
was that these Sun-worshipers found among them the tents of a mi hty
prince' who did not worship sun or star. Here it was that Abraham
fed his ﬂocks both before and after his visit to Egypt. Here, as he sat
under the terebinth tree, in the plain, he could tell neighbor and guest
of those wonderful works of Egyptian art of which we could now have
told in the same place. Here he could astonish the shepherds of Mamre
with descriptions of the marvels, and hints of the mysteries of the
Pyramids; and with an account of the honors with which he had been
treated at Memphis. Here it was that Sara died; and within view of
where we now stood was the ﬁeld leadin up to a hill, wherein was a
cave in which Abraham wished to bury his dead. There was the bill
now, before us, with the cave in the midst of it, where the patriarch
himself was afterwards laid.

Then, after several generations, other herdsmen came hither, who
could tell more of Egypt than even Abraham. Hither came the sons
of the eneration who had come out of bondage. Years ago they had
buried iriam, not far to the south of this place; then they had seen
Aaron go up Mount Hor to die; and now lately, Moses had disappeared
from their eyes. They had not yet fulﬁlled the desire of Moses by
becoming a nation,—a peOple with One God and a single faith. They
were so little united yet by any national spirit as to be prepared for the

' Genesis XXIII. 6.

