comm or arena-r mans. 407

cookery, and from the rden and mountain side, which they prepare
with their own hands, lg: the indulgence of their visitors. The hol
man states this in the inscription he has left: says that here are all the
luxuries of the body; but asks where, in this convent, are we to look
for the salvation of the soul? He ends by declaring himself constrained
to cry out, “Where now is the Lord God of Elijah l” The grateful
visitors who have succeeded this person have not spared him. Bettveen
thosewho are shocked at his ingratitude and pride, and those who are
amused at his self-complacency and bad taste, he is now pretty well
punished in the Visitors’ Book at Mount Carmel; so I will spare him
the telling of his name.

The church of the convent is handsome; and it contains a picture
worth noting—the portrait of St. Theresa, whom I agree with Bossuet
in thinking one of the most interesting of the saints of his church.
The brin ing together of remote thoughts in travel is as remarkable to
the indivrdual as the bringing together of remote persona s in the ac-
tion of human life. How I used to dwell on the image St. 'I‘heresa
in my childhood, and long, in an i orant sympathy with her, to be a
nun! And then, as I grew wiser, became ashamed of her desire for
martyrdom,-as I should have been of any folly in a sister, and kept my
fondness for her to myself. But all the while, that was the Theresa of
Spain—now wandering among the Moors in search of martyrdom, and
now shutting herself up in her hermitage in herfather’s garden at
Avila. It had never occurred to me that I should come upon her traces
at Mount Carmel. But here, she was, worshiped as the reformatrix of
her order. It was she who made the Carmelites bare-footed—t'. c...
aandaled instead of shod. It was she who dismissed all the indulg-
ences which had crept in amen her order; and she "obtained by her
earnestness such power over the gbaser parts of human nature in those
she had to deal with, as to reform the Carmelita order altogether, and
witness before her death, the foundation of thirty convents,- wherein
her rule was to be practised in all its severity. Martyrdom by the
Moore was not good enough for her; it would have been the mere gra-
tiﬁcation of a selﬁsh craving for spiritual safety. She did much more
for God and man by living to the age of sixty-seven, and bringing back
the true spirit into the corrupted body of her order. Here she is—‘the
woman of genius and determination—looking at us from out of her stiff
head-gear—as true a queen on this mountain throne as any empress
who ever were a crown.

We saw the care where Elijah is said to have hidden himself; and
were shown the “ Pharmacie” of the monks—who distill excellent
cordials—and their gardens—on three terraces. But our walk down
the mountain side was our best entertainment. We thrust our way
among ﬂowering shrubs, tall hollyhocks, ilex and herbs of many sa-
vers, down and down, by a zigzag path, to the School of the Prophets.
It may be remembered that Obadiah,"I the household minister of Ahab,
hid a hundred of the prophets of the Lord in two caves. This is

’ lKinngVIIL4.

