Ions-r man. 406*

phoris, and then crossing more barley-ﬁelds, dropped over with clumps
of ﬁg and olive, and pomegranate cominginto blossom, we entered upon
the range of hills which we thought so English in their character.
Rich grasseszcovered the slopes and feathered the glades, where the
gleams and shadows and spring breezes were at their merry play.
Clumps of ilex wooded every part,—casting shade into the levels, and
overhanging the broken gravel-hanks of the foreground. On we went,
under spreading old trees, up hollow ways, alon sunny glades, across
grassy levels, till .it was scarcely possible to beﬁeve where we were,
and who had once been here. Then we descended upon the plain of
Zabulon, which is intersected by the Kishon, and enclosed by these
bills, the Carmel range, and the sea. Here we came into full view of
the Mediterranean, dashing its white foam upon the sands. The little
town of Hayfa,‘ marked by the Consular flags on the roofs, lay at the
foot of Camel; and on its heights, we saw the Convent, to which we
were bound. This is the most wooded side "of Camel, and it was
clumped extensively with ilex. We rode briskly alongthe grassy road
at its base, and crossed the Kishon where it gathered and spread among
rocks, and ﬂocks of cattle and goats were crowded in and about the
col. It must have been near this spot that the great contest took place
tween the priests of Baal and Elijah,’r that the people might no longer

“ halt between two opinions," but choose which god they would follow.
Here, at the base of Carmel, were, on the one hand, the four hundred
and ﬁfty priests of the Sun, with their garlands, altars, sacriﬁces;—
their jewels, their music, and their favoring multitude: and on the
other hand, was the “ hairy man girded with a leathern belt,” Elijah
the Tishbite, with his servant, his altar of stones, and his faith in Jeho-
vah. Here, amidst all the appear? of the splendid Sun God, who had
the king and queen for worshipers, did Elijah mockJ—as man should
never mock at any object of faith; and here did he so bring round the
multitude as that they lent themselves to his work of vengeance, and.
dragged down the whole body of the priests of the Sun to this river
side, and slewthem there. How different must the scene have been
in that day from anything that we saw! The king Ahab and his
household minister Obadiah, men of the opposite faiths, were abroad,
—gone in different directions with attendants, to seek out the springs
and fountains, and see if they could ﬁnd grass enough to keep their
beasts alive.§ This plain was then brown and dusty with drought,
where we were now riding over the turf and among wild-ﬂowers, and
passing cattle knee-deep in the cool waters. Where the ﬁres of sacri-
ﬁce were then blazing, and the plain was reeking in the heat under the
coppery sky, and human blood was curdling in the hollows of the
ground, we were pacin under the shade of woods, seeing the barley
wave in the breeze, an crossing the clear rivulets that stole down from
the heights. When we were on the summit,I was yet more impressed
with the contrast between the former day and this; and especially when

’ Sometimes called Caiﬂit -—-anciently Hefa. ,
1 1 Kings XVIII. I Kings XVIII. 27. S l Kings XVIII. 5, s.

30

