um um. 49

up to judgment; and ﬁnally the judge himself, whose suspended sceptre
is to give the sign of acceptance or condemnation. Here the deceased
has crossed the living valley and river; and in the caves of the death
region, where the howl of the wild dog is heard by night. is this pro-
cess of judgment going forward; and none but those who have seen the
contrasts of the region with their own eyes,—-none who have received
the idea through the borrowed imagery of the Greeks, or the traditions
of any other people,—can have any adequate notion how the mortuary
ideas of the primitive Egyptians, and, through them, of the civilized
world at large, have been originated by the everlasting conﬂict of the
Nile and the Desert.

How the presence of these elements has, in all ages, determined the
occupations and habits of the inhabitants, needs only to be pointed out;
the ﬁshing, the navigation, and the almost amphibious habits of the
people are what they owe to the Nile; and their practice of laborious
tillage, to the Desert. A more striking instance of patient industry can
nowhere be found than in the method of irrigation practised in all times
in this valley. After the subsidence of the Nile, every dro of water
needed for tillage, and for all other purposes, for the rest of the year,
is hauled up and distributed by human labor—up to the point where
the sakia, worked by oxen, supersedes the shadoof, worked by men.
Truly the desert is here a hard task-master—or rather a pertinacions
enemy, to be incessantly guarded against—but yet a friendly adversary,
inasmuch as such natural compulsion to tail is favorable to a nation’s
character.

One other obligation which the Egyptians owe to the Desert struck
me freshly and forcibly, from the beginning of our voyage to the end.
It plainly originated their ideas of art. Not those of the present in-
habitants, which are wholly Saracenic still, but those of the rimitive
race who appear to have originated art all over the world. ' he ﬁrst
thing that impressed me in the Nile scenery, above Cairo, was the an-
gularity of almost all forms. The trees appeared almost the only
exception. The line of the Arabian hills soon became so even as to
give them the appearance of being supports to a vast table-land, while
the sand heaped up at their bases was like a row of pyramids. Else-
where, one’s idea of sand-hills is that of all round eminences they are
the roundest, but here their form is generally that of truncated pyra-
mids. The entrances of the caverns are square. The masses of sand
left by the Nile are square. The river banks are graduated by the
action of the water, so that one may see a hundred natural N ilometers
in as many miles. Then, in, the forms of the rocks, especially the
limestone ranges, are rematfably grotesque. In a few days,l saw,
without looking for them, so many colossal ﬁgures of men and animals
springing from the natural rock, so many sphinxes and strange birds,
that I was quite prepared for anything I afterwards met with in the
temples. The higher we went up the country, the more pyramidal
became the forms of even the mud houses of the modern peeple; and
in Nubia, they were worthy, from their angularity, of old Egypt. It
is possible that the people of Abyssinia might, in some obscure age,

4

r

