nnsnsw FAITH 41' run sm'rn or earlier. 389

early days to be so, whatever amount of the material of them might
have been furnished by him; and that the calf-idol, and the sacriﬁces,
and feast-days, and the structure of the tabernacle, were of Egyptian
derivation; and that the practice of carrying a tabernacle was not pecu-
liar to the Hebrews, and so on :—when the young student learns these
things from religious scholars and their works at home, he ﬁnds, if he
be ingenuous, a strong light cast upon his faith, as well as an immense
relief afforded to his religious-aﬂ'ections. He is set free from perplex-'
ity and superstition about the apparatus employed in the conveyance
of religious ideas, and he is at liberty for the contemplation of the ideas
themselves,and for admiration of the process by which the loftiestand ho-
liest inﬂuences which have operated on the human race have issued from
the ordinary circumstances and habitudes of life. For one instance, he ho-
nors Moses inﬁnitely more for having transcended “the wisdom of the
Egyptians,” and dared to lay open their mysteries, while employing
for his purposes the religious associations which the Hebrews had de-
rived from them, than if it had been true, as the ignorant naturally and
perniciously suppose, that the apparatus and external arrangements were
as essential a part of the Mosaic religion as the doctrine that Jehovah was
the sole God of the Hebrews. Apart from the apparatus, and only passing
through the ritual to the minds of the people, how sublime is the doc-
trine! But how it sinks when it is supposed to be given on the same
terms with devices about the red heifer and the shew-bread, and the
priests’ garments, and the fringes and rings of the tabernacle !

In the same manner, but in an immeasurably higher degree, is the
progressive faith of the Hebrews, and that of the ﬁrst Christians, en-
hanced by the lights which travel concentrates upon the spot of their
origin and expansion. Books of Biblical scholarship,—those which
are the work of free and enlightened and earnest minds,—are a great
blessing at bome;—the greatest, except the Book itself: and, more-
over, they are an indispensable preparative for the beneﬁts of travel:
but, as instructors, how low they sink while one is contemplating an
Egyptian tomb, or looking abroad from the heights of Horeb! The
monumental volumes of Egypt teach in a day what can never be
learned in libraries at home: and in the Desert, “Truth springs out of
the earth, and righteousness looks down from the heaven” which over-
hangs Sinai. And these lights accumulated as we went; and we found
what it was. to carry our Egyptian associations into the Desert: and
- thence, enriched again by the fruits of the Wandering, into Palestine.
As, in Palestine, our main interest is its being the shade of Jesus,I
gave comparatively little attention to any mere localities of more an-
cient events, but endeavored to carry clearly in my mind the religious
history of the Hebrews up to the time of Christ, in order to a better under-
standing of his own, and a more thorough realization of his presence
in the haunts which, for his sake, we sought. “A brief retrospect of
that kind here is necessary to a faithful account of what we saw.

The ﬁrst thing evident in the history, after the arrival of the He-
brews in the Promised Land, is the utter apparent failure for the time
of their leader’s aim and hope for them. His hape had been, and the

