2! meant an.

watching. There is a rare old book which happily throws light on
what this pillar was. In the twelfth century, while the Crusaders were
ravaging Syria, a learned physician of Bagdad, named Abdallatif, visited
Egypt, and dwelt a considerable time there. He afterwards wrote an
admirable account of whatever he himself saw in the country; ' and his
work has been translated by some Arabic scholars. The best transla-
tion is by De Sacy (Paris, lBlO).—Abdallatif tells us that the column
(now called by us Pompey’s Pillar) which is so ﬁnely seen from the
sea, was called by the Arabs “ the pillar of the colonnades ;” that he
had himself seen the remains of above four hundred columns of the
same material, lying on the margin of the sea: and he tells us how they
came there. He declared that the governor of Alexandria, the oﬁcer
put in charge of the city by Saladeen. had overthrown and broken these
columns to make a breakwater! “This,” observes Abdallatif, “ was
the act of a child, or of a man who does not know good from on .”
He continues, “ I have seen also, round the pillar of the colonnades,
considerable remains of these columns; some entire, others broken.
It was evident from these remains that the columns had been covered
by a roof which they supported. Above the pillar is a cupola sup-
ported by it. I believe that this was the portieo where Aristotle taught,
and his disciples alter him; and that this was the academy which
Alexander erected when he built the city, and where the library was
placed which Amrou burned by the permission of Omar)" De Sacy
reminds us that the alleged destruction of this portico must have taken
place, if at all, at most thirty years before the visit of Abdallatif; so
that as “ all the inhabitants of Alexander, without exception,” assured
that traveler of the fact, it would be unreasonable to doubt it.l He
decides that here we have the far-famed Serapéum.—-From the base of
the pillar the view was curious to novices. The fortiﬁcations were
rising in long lines, where groups of Arabs were at work in the crum-
bling, whitish, hot soil; and ﬁles of soldiers were keeping watch over
them. To the south-east, we had a ﬁne view of Lake Mareotis, whose
slender line of shore seemed liable to be broken through by the ﬁrst
ripple of its waters. The space between it and the sea was one ex-
panse of desolation. A strip of vegetation,—some marsh, some ﬁeld,
and some grove,—looked well near the lake; and so did a little settle-
ment on the canal, and a latteen sail, gliding among the trees.

We had a better view than this, one morning, from the fort on Mont
Cretin. I believe it is the best point for a survey of the whole district;
and our thinking so seemed to give some alarm to the Arabs, who
ceased their work to peep at us from behind the ridges, and watch what
we did with telescope, map and compass. The whole prospect was
bounded by water,—by the sea and Lake Mareotis,—except a little
space to the north-east; and that was hidden by an intervening minaret
and cluster of houses. Except where some palms arose between us
and Lake Mareotis to the south, and where the clustered houses of the
town stood up white and clear against the morning sky, there was no-

’ Abdallntif. Relation dc l’Egypte. Livre 1. ch. 4. 1’ Appendix A.

