Tons. 185

future life and retribution; and in the greatest of all truths, that moral
good is the highest good, and moral evil the deepest evil. From the
lips of this thoughtful people it was that infant nations learned, through
a long course of centuries, whatever they held that was most noble,
concerning the origin and tendencies of things, and what was most to
be desired for the race of man at large, and the soul of every individual
man. Many things remained to be learned; and many needed to be
unlearned. We ﬁnd much that was barbaric, coarse, ignorant, and
untrue: but the wonder is at the amount of insight, achievement and
truth. The ground gained by the human mind was never lost: for out
of this Valley of the Nile issued Judaism: and out of Judaism issued,
in due time, Christianity.

 

CHAPTER XVI.

THEBES—TOMBsa—M'UMMIES.—MEDEENET HAB00.—DAYR EL
BAHREE.—EL-KARNAC. '

W11: passed the working hours of- several days among the tombs;
and my journal has copious accounts of them: but, remembering how
much sooner one wearies of reading of such places than of seeing them,
I will say little about them.

/‘ One of the most celebrated is the Harpers’ Tomb, ﬁrst mentioned
by Bruce, and, therefore, often called by his name. This is the work
of two of the Ramases: and a vast work it is,—extending 406 feet into
the hill. The entrance passages have small chambers on either hand,
whose walls present as with capital pictures of ancient Egyptian life.
The kitchen comes ﬁrst,—on the left hand side: and there the servants
are kneading bread, and carrying to the oven cakes sprinkled with
black seeds: and others are making broth, and pastry; and some are
drawing oﬁ' liquor with a syphon; and others slaughtering cattle, and
preparing the joints for the cook. Some of the beef is to be boiled,—
the joints being put into caldrons over the ﬁre: and an assistant is
pounding something in a mortar; and there is a meat-safe, suspended
from the ceiling—The other chambers have boats, furniture, arms,
gardens and a ﬁsh-pond: fowls, ﬁelds and their produce; and so forth.
The standards are striking. They bear the hawk, the fox, the ibis,
«ice. The blade part of the arms is painted blue, which seems to show
that they were of steel.—The furniture is so eleganu—the couches,
fauteuils, hangings, vases, baskets and lamps,—-that it could hardly be
surpassed in Greece or Rome at any time, or in Paris and London
now. It is very strange to look upon these evidences of in-door
luxury, and then to turn to the pictures of savage warfare on the pro-
pyla of the palaces. And yet it is only what one knows to be hap-
pening even now, within the limits of Christendom. No luxury on
earth can exceed that of many houses in New York: and at this mo-
ment, while some ladies are passing their days in the midst of it, their

