comu'r or nonN'r emu. 313

is true, is such that the season is more backward than that of Cairo by
two months: but this elevation can avail little to an abode placed in an
abyss of bare rocks. Iwas struck with this the ﬁrst night, when I
went out into our corridor, after ten o'clock, to see the moon come up
between two peaks,—her light being already bright on the western
summits. Still and sweet as was the scene,—the air being hazy with
moonlight in this rocky basin, there was something oppressive in the
nearness of the precipices, and [could not but wonder what state of
nerve one would be in during summer, and in seasons of storm. The
lightningmust ﬁll this space like a ﬂood; and the thunder must die
hard among the echoes of these steep barriers. As for the thunder,
Burckhardt heard a curious tale here. He says :*—“ Several Be-
doueens had acquainted me that a thundering noise, like repeated
charges of heavy artillery, is heard at times in these mountains; and
they all afﬁrmed that it came from 0m Shomar. The monks cor-
roborated the story, and even positively asserted that they had heard
the sound about mid-day, ﬁve years ago, describing it in the same man-
ner as the Bedoueens. The same noise had been heard in more re-
mote times, and the Ikonomos, who had lived here forty years, told me
that he remembered to have heard the noise at four or ﬁve separate
periods. I inquired whether any shock of an earthquake had ever
been felt on such occasions, but was answered in the negative. Wish-
ing to ascertain the truth, I prepared to visit the. mountain of Om Sho-
mar.”—He did so, and “ could nowhere ﬁnd the slightest traces of a
volcano.”

What must the reverberating thunder have been among these preci-
pices to the Hebrews, who had scarcely ever seen a cloud in the sky !

If the monks looked pale-faced to us, we must have presented an ex-
traordinary spectacle to them,—with our faces,—-some red, some brown,
and our parched and cracked lips. As we looked round upon one
another, we saw complexions of all hues between a boiled lobster and
a mahogany table. It is better so than to annoy one’s self with the
weight of an umbrella and the stiﬂing of a veil. I threw aside my veil
after one or two trials. Its shifting threads are painful to the apes
amidst the glare of the Desert. I was well satisﬁed with my gog es,
-—not of glass, which is heating, and might be broken,—but of b ck
woven wire, which admits the air freely, and cannot get spoiled. As
for the rest, we wore broad-brimmed hats, and, for the most part, took
no further pains, trusting that time would make us look like ourselves

m.

The monks have lately built a new set of guest chambers, in which
the greater part of our company were lodged. These rooms are made
as comfortable as possible, under the circumstances: and there we re-
mained from Saturday afternoon till Wednesday morning. We were
waited upon, of course, by our own peOple; and served, for the most
part, with our own utensils and stOres ; while a monk was at our call,
to give us guidance and information. , When the time came for settling

’ Travels in Syria and the Holy Land, p. 586.

