xL-nmuc. 195

the desolations of time,—shattered inscriptions, defaced pictures, use-
less blocks, and unintelligible fragments.~ _

The ﬁnest view I obtained from the mine was from the top of the
mound heaped up against the face of the prepyla which front the river.
Here I could command the plain of tufty coarse grass, strewn with
stone, and varied with palm-clumps: and the remains of the‘avenue of
smaller sphinxes, which used to extend to the landing-place on this
side; then the platform above the quay: then the river; and beyond it
the western plain, with its precipitous mountain boundary, now drest
in rainbow- hues. The temple at El-Kurneh was hidden by a palm-
clump: but the Ramaséum, with its wrecked propyla, stood out distinct:
and the recess of the Dayr el Bahree was traceable; and the gran at
Medeenet Haboo; and, best of all, the Pair were sitting in the bright
. sunlight, above, because far beyond, the dark screen of palm groves
which hid the modern village. This was my last view of them; and
in my parting yearning,l thought it the best. How inexplicable is the
distinctness with which some images impress themselves upon the
memorial faculty! I did not see them more distinctly in that African
sunshine than I see them now.

The .ﬁnest. impression. or the most memorable, which we obtained
of El-Karnac was derived from our moonlight visit, that last evening.
There is no questioning of any style of art, if only massive, when its
results are seen by moonlight. Then, spaces and distances become
what the mind desiderates; and drawbacks are lost in shade. Here,
the mournful piles of fragments were turned into masses of shade; and
the barbaric coloring disappeared. Some capricious, but exquisite
lights were let in through crevices in the roof and walls of the side
chambers. Then, there were the falling columns and their shadows in
the great hall, and the long vistas ending in ruins; and the profound
silence in this shadowy place, striking upon the heart. In the depth .
of this stillness, when no one moved or spoke, the shadow of an eagle
on the wing above fell upon the moonlit aisle, and skimmed its whole
length. - .

It was with heavy hearts, and little inclination to speak that we
turned, on our way home, to take a last view of the pylons of Karnac.
The moonlit plain lay, with the river in its midst, within the girdle of
mountains. Here was enthroned the human intellect when humanity
was elsewhere scarcely emerging from chaos. And how was it now?
That “morning, I had seen the Governor of Thebes, crouching on his
haunebes on the ﬁlthy shore among the dung heaps, feeding himself
with his ﬁngers, among a circle of apish creatures like himself.

The next morning,l was glad we were off. I had had as much as,
without more knowledge, I could well bear: and it was a delightful
holiday to be sitting on deck, reading, and looking at shadoofs and
mountains, and wheat and lupins, as we did a month ago.

