462 ns'raatr urn.

rial at Nazareth. The papal sanction'll gave it this value in the eyes of
the Latin Christians: the Greeks esteem it no less: and the Arabs and
Turks come and prostrate themselves,—apparently because other peo-
ple do,-—with as much zeal as if they also were to gain seven years’
indulgence by their pilgrimage. A
The next building we came to interested me more than any place
exhibited by the monks, in all Palestine. It was the only place in the
form of a building Or habitation which it appeared reasonable or possi-
ble to believe in. It rofesses to be the synagogue ‘where Christ ﬁrst
taught in his native p ace,—-of which the beautiful narrative is given
in Luke IV. No scene in his ministry had ever ﬁxed itself more dis-
tinctly in my outhful imagination than thist—his reading from the
scroll,-—his delivering it to the attendant of the synagogue, and sitting
down to expound what he had read, and open the promises of his mis-
sion;-the curiosity ﬁrst, and then the astonishment, and then the
mughty wrath of his hearers, who were eager to learn what the car-
penter’s son had to say, but could no more endure the statement of his
claims than the peop e of Jerusalem,—so famous for stoning the pro-
hets. Now, it appears that a place of public worship is less likely to
forgotten as the scene of a remarkable event, than any private dwell-
ing: and the riot which ensued on this occasion was likely to ﬁx the
circumstances in the memory of the resident Jews, for the three centu-
ries which elapsed before the place was appropriated by tradition.
From that time, it has always been believed in, and held successively
by the Latins, devout Arabs, the Greeks, and now the Latins again.
Of course, no one supposes the very stones of which it is built to be
eighteen centuries old; but only that this is the spot on which there
has always since been a building. It is now a small and very plain
chapel ;—a mere old vaulted room, dim and antique-looking. I own
that my heart did, for once, beat with the true pilgrim emotion while
under the guidance of a monk. This was to me, the true spot of the
Annunciation,-—of the annunciation of “the acceptable year of the
Lord." Here he sat where probably others of the Therapeutte had
sat, calling to him the broken—hearted and the captives, and the weary
and heav -laden: and when his critical townsmen were sayin in their
hearts “ hysician, heal thyself," he announced to them suc mi h
thin that were to be done above those which other teachers ha 0 -
fereg,a that they rose in wrath, and would fain have ended his life and
doctrine together. As I have observed before, the aim of the Essene
sect,—-the physicians of bodies and souls,—was to bring out and re-
store the Moral Import of the Law ;—to revive the life of the Mosaic
system. That this was aho the aim of Jesus, no one can read the gos-

' The following papal certiﬁcate, in printed fbrm,is hung up on the wall of this
'apartment:-“ Tradictio continua est, et nunquam interrupta, apud omncs nationas
Orientales, hanc petram, dictum Mensa Christi, illam ipsam esse supra quam Domi-
nus noster Jesus Christus cum suis comedit discipulis, ante et post suam resurrec-
tionem i mortuis. Et Sancta Romana Ecclesia Indulgentiam concessit septem an-
noaum et totidem qmdragenarum, omnibus Christi ﬁdelibus hnnc sanctum locum
visitandjhus, recitando saltem ibi nnum Pater et Ave, dummodo sit in statu petite."

..
a
n.
L.
1

