untrue or ABOO-BIIBIL. 115

Osiride on the right hand, entering the temple, is composed of this same
material. as smoothly curved and nicely wrought as the chin overhead.
On examining closely, we found that this layer of mud and straw
covered some chiseling within. The artist had been carving the folds
of the dress, when he came upon a fault in the stone which stopped his
work till he supplied a surfaceof material which he could mould.

The small ﬁgures which stand beside the colossi and between their
ankles, and which look like dolls, are not, as sometimes said, of human
size. The hat of a man of ﬁve feet ten inches does not reach their
chins by two inches. These small ﬁgures are, to my eye, the. one
blemish of this turn le. They do not make the great Ramases look
greater, but only 100 ' dollish themselves. ,

On the legs of the shattered colossus are the Greek letters, scrawled
as by a Greek clown. composing the_inscription of the soldiers sent by
Psammitichus in pursuit of the Egyptian deserters whom I mentioned
as going up the country from Elephantine, when weary of the neglect
in which they were left there. We are much obliged to “Damear-
chon, the son of Amtebichus, and Pelephus, the son of Udamus,” for
leaving, in any kind of scrawl, a record of an event so curious. One
of the strangest sensations to the traveler in Egypt, is ﬁnding such
traces as these of persons who were in their day modern travelers see-
ing the antiquities of the country, but who take their place now among
the ancients, and have become subjects of Egyptian history. These
rude soldiers, carving their names and errand on the legs of an ancient
statue as they went by, passed the spot a century and a half before
Cambyses entered the country. One wonders what they thought.of
Thebes, which they had just seen in all its glory.

As nearly as we could judge by the eye, and by knowing pretty
well the dimensions of the colossi, the facade from the base of the
thrones to the tap of the row of apes, is nearly or quite one hundred
feet high. Above rises the untouched rock.

The faces of Ramases outside (precisely alike) are placid and cheer-
ful,——full of moral grace: but the eight Osirides within (precisely alike
too) are more. They are full of soul. It is a mistake to suppose that
the expression of a face must be injured by its features being colossal.
In Egypt it may be seen that a month three feet wide may be as deli-
cate, and a nostril which spans a foot as sensitive in expression as any
marble bust of our day. It is very wonderful, but quite true. Abdal-
latif has left us his testimony as follows,——in speaking of the Sphinx.
“ A little more than a bow-shot from these Pyramids. we see a colossal
head and neck appearing above ground. . . . lts countenance is
very charming, and its mouth gives an impression of sweetness and
beauty. - One would say that it smiles benignly. An able man having
asked me what I admired most of all that I had seen in Egypt, I told
him that it was the truth of the proportions in the head of the Sphinx.
. . It is very astonishing that in a countenance so colossal, the
sculptor should have preserved the precise proportions of all the parts,
whilst Nature has presented no model of such a colossus, nor of any

