ass or m momma. NO

was sure to become, ere long, Greek property. It was so with Persia,
and with its province, Egypt. The event was hastened by the desire
of the Egyptians to he quit of their Persian masters. Alexander the
Great was the conqueror, as everybody knows. He chose his time
when the chief part of the Persian forces of Egypt was absent—sent
to ﬁght the Greeks in Asia Minor. When once Alexander had set
foot in Pelusium, the rest was easy; for the towns opened their gates
to him with joy; and he had only to march to Helio iis and then to
Memphis. He gave his countenance as well as he new how to the
old worship, restoring the temples and honoring the symbols oi’ the
gods at Memphis, and marching to the Oasis of Amen, to present gifts
to the chief deity of the Egyptians, and to claim to be his son. it was
on his way there, by the coast, that he saw in easing the harbor where
Alexandria now stands, and perceived its capa ilities. He ordered the
improvement of the harbor, and the building of the cit which would
have immortalized his name, if he had done nothing e as. This visit
of Alexander the Great to Egypt took place 832 n. c. He left orders
that the country should be governed by its own laws, and that its re-
ligion should be absolume respected. This was wise and humans,
and no doubt we owe some of our knowledge of more ancient times to
this conservative principle of Alexander’s government. But he was not
practically sustained by his deputies; and he died eight ears after
his visit to Egypt. His successor vs the overnment 0! ngpt into
the hands of Ptolemy, who called imself e son of Lagus, but was
commonly believed to be an illegitimate son of Philip ci' Macedon.
In seventeen years he became king; and with him begins the great
line of the Ptolemies, of whom sixteen reigned in succession for 276
yesrs, till the witch Cleopatra let the country go into the hands of the
Bureau, to become a Roman province, in 30 s. c.

It was under the government of the ﬁrst Ptolemy that Greek visitors
again explored the Nile valley as high as Thebes, sud higher. ﬂees:
tzus ofAbderawas one cfthese travelers, and a great traveler he was;
for,it'Diodorus8ienh1s tells us truiy,hecnee stood on Halisbu
Plain,asdsawtherethe ttempieoftheﬂeewhiehwer
:‘ssd hseenaisystcodonthepisincf Thebes,st
great tie-pie ofthe Sue there. Thepriestslndrseovered their
under thejsunbcftheGreekgsad had in . est tins
silverandothermofthese-pleswhich been are:
hidden ﬁu- the Persians. Til-aha, however, was sinsmt dead by
' ' :adhsmwmmdyaﬂwhkhsmuhsdw
Weareghdbksowthatthemﬂsdduyriesuvdd «Minty:
tent-existigithenlleydxags’ memrlwhwﬁ

as that he been W sales met It!
' “dualss-ekeshemesm
ne'er-days; biiummqukjmsw
mule-thug“ www.mumyyﬂrm
dehywaedssdu‘emadwmm.

’I-snl-I-val lama- 349:

i

it it
3 iii

i’iii
g1

