worse or m "noon KINGI. ' 279

but erroneously called the Tombs of ‘the‘ Caliphs; What a descent
from the tombs of the Kings that we had seen up the river! Yet these
well repay a visit; and it may be worth while to describe one of them,
very brieﬂy. These tombs look almost as well when one rides among
them as from the terrace of the citadel, where one is so struck with the
pale yellow domes and minarets, rising against their ground of darker
sand. Now those domes and spires stood up bright and sharp against
the cloudless sky. Round the base of the dome of some are inscrip-
tions in colored tiles, white letters on a dark blue or other ground.
Some of the walls outside are in courses of yellowish white and rah
alternately; the white—being the limestone of the neighboring hills, and
the red a mere daub of paint upon the stones. These tombs are goit!
to decay so fast, that the next generation of travelers will see but litt,

of them. Some of the walls are slanting to their fall: others show
gaping rents; and many stones are carried away by the builders U
some new ediﬁce. ' '

The threshold across which we stepped into the enclosure of one 0%
these tombs was of gray granite, split down the very middle of an an-
tique sculptured ﬁgure, whose cartouche remained entire. "I‘hus do
men go on making for themselves inviolable tombs by violating those
of their predecessors! This fractured sculpture was laid‘down for a
door-step over which the kingly pride of thisMemlook sultaun might
pass to its last repose: and now men cross this' threshold, to carry
away the stones of the newer ediﬁce—but not to serve for another
royal tomb. ’

Within the court, We found a dry and meager bit of garden. and a
well covered with a shattered wooden dome. Along two sides of the
court were dwellings; those of one side ruined; those of the other in-
habited by tenants who have them free. There is no competition for '
these almshouses; for the people are becoming fewer in the land, and
there is plenty of houseroom. _Apartments as good as these, and more
convenient for situation, may be had in Cairo for next to nothing; and
there is therefore no eagerness to live rent free in this place. On a
“third side is a wall, with a beautiful minaret at one corner. This mina-
ret is fast going to ruin: but one of the gentlemen made his way to its
lupper gallery, whence he obtained a ﬁne view—even to the second
station on the Suez road. On the fourth side of the court is the Mosque,
with the tomb Of the sultaun at one end, and that of his hareem at the
other, each under a dome. The loftiness of this range was very strik-
ing: and indeed I never was in any mosque where I did not Wonder
afresh at the height of the dome, and the magniﬁcence of the spring of
the pillars. The handsome stairs and pulpit of the mosque, and its
rich covered and inlaid screens, are rotting away. The sordid decay
was a desolate spectacle.

From hence we went to see aCoptic church, which we found altogether
disgusting, from its profane altar-piece to the swarms of ﬂeas which
inhabit its matting. There was a handsome carved screen; but no-
thing else that we could bear to look at. The pictures of saints were
most audacious; and as for the altar-piece—any Mohammedan who

