28 EASTERN use.

chose to see. Between this countess and the eunuch, there was more
religious demonstration on board than we had been accustomed to see
in such places.

Till 3 P. 31., there was little variety in the scenery. I Was most
struck with the singular coloring ;—the diversity of browns. There
was the turbid river, of vast width, rolling between earthy banks; and
on these banks were mud villages, with their conical pigeon-houses.
The minarets and Sheikhs’ tombs were fawn-colored and white; and
the only variety from these shades of the same color was in the scanty
herbage, which was so coarse as to be almost of no color at all. But
the distinctness of outline, the glow of the brown, and the vividness of
light and shade, were truly a feast to the eye. At 3 o‘clock, when ap-
proaching Werdﬁn, we saw large spreading acacias growing out of the
dusty soil; and palms were clustered thickly about the town; and at
last we had something beyond the banks to look at ;—a sandy ridge
which extends from Tunis to the Nile. When we had passed Wer-
din, about 4 P. 11., Mr. E. came to me with a mysterious countenance,
and asked me if I should like to be the ﬁrst to see the Pyramids. We
stole past the groups of careless talkers, and went to the bows of the
boat, where I was mounted on boxes and coops, and shown where to
look. In a minute I saw them, emerging from behind a sand hill.
They were very small ; for we were still twenty-ﬁve miles from Cairo ;
but there could be no doubt about them for a moment; so sharp and
clear were the light and shadow on the two sides we saw. I had been
assured that I should be disappointed in the ﬁrst sight of the Pyramids ;
and I had maintained that I could not be disappointed, as of all the
wonders of the world, this'is the most literal, and, to a dweller-among
mountains, like myself, the least imposing. I now found both my in-
formant and myself mistaken. So far from being disappointed, I was
ﬁlled with surprise and awe: and so far was I from having antici-
pated what I saw, that I felt as if I had never before looked upon any-
thing so new as those clear and vivid masses. with their sharp blue
shadows, standing ﬁrm and alone on their eXpanse of sand. In a few
minutes, they appeared to grow wonderfully‘larger; and they looked
lustrous and most imposing in the evening light. This impression of
the Pyramids was never fully renewed. I admired them every even-
ing from my window at Cairo; and I took the surest means of con-
vincing myself of their vastness, by going to the top of the largest; but
this ﬁrst view of them was the most moving: and I cannot think of it
now without emotion.

Between this time and sunset. the most remarkable thing was the
inﬁnity of birds. I saw a few pelicans and many cormorants; but the
‘ ﬂocks—I might say the shoals—of wild ducks and geese which peo-
pled the air, gave me a stronger impression of the wildness of the
country, and the foreign character of the scenery, than anything I'had
yet seen. We passed by moonlight the spot where the great experi-
ment of the Barrage is to be tried; and here we could distinguish the
point of the Delta, and the junction of the other branch, and knew
when we had issued upon the single Nile. Soon after, the groves of

