szmm. 451

were nearly ready for the sickle. The hills, a continuation of Ebal
and Gerizim, are more thickly peopled than in any district we had yet
passed through—the villages being in sight of one another, from height
to height, all the way. We had passed a picturesque old aqueduct,
which communicated with a modern mill; and we knew that the next
was to be our signal to turn up the hills to the right, to ﬁnd Sebaste,
the ancient Samaria. The baggage-train was to proceed along the di-
rect road to Djeneen, our resting-place for the night. Our party, when
we began crossing the hills, was thus a small one, and two were la-
dies; and the inhabitants of Sebaste have the reputation of being rude
and rapacious towards all strangers but those who are imposing from
their arms and their numbers. ‘ But we met with no direct incivility.
From the eminence ‘we ascended on coming to the second aqueduct,
the ﬁnest possible view is obtained of the site of the ancient Samaria:
and a ﬁner site no city, ancient or modern, ever had. The surround-
ing hills make a basin of about six miles. in diameter. They are of
considerable height, so that they might almost be called mountains;
but there are openings between them which cause a suﬁicient circula-
tion of air to ventilate the interior of this rampart. Nearly in the midst
of this basin rises an oblong, swelling hill—not so lofty as those which
surround it, but high enough to be breezy and sunny. Old Samaria
covered this bill, and stretched down round its skirts. The great Baal
temple, and the palaces of his priests, and of Ahab and Jezebel, and
the groves of Ashtaroth, then crowned this bill, and adorned its slopes;
and the well-watered valleys on every side were rich with gardens,
and orchards and fertile ﬁelds, while the Opposite uplands were clothed
with ﬂocks. Over the ridge of one of these bills, came the ﬁerce Jehu
from Jezreel, where he had seen Jezebel destroyed. He came to
ascertain that all the descendants of Ahab had been put out of the way,
according to his command; and when he had furthermore slain all the
princes of Judah, here it was that he ordered that great feast of Baal,
when these valleys echoed with music, and the sacriﬁces were led with
rejoicing up the central hill to the great temple. There, from within
that temple, were heard the shrieks of the slaughtered priests and wor-
shipers; and thither, when none were left alive of all who had fol,
lowed Baal, came Jehu himself, with his oﬁcers and attendants, to
break the images of the god, and unroof the temple, and claim glory
from the prophets of Jehovah for having thus vindicated his name.
Such was the place at one time: and now, how changed and still it
lies! Where the dwellings of the city rose in tiers, up the hill sides,
there are now terraces of waving barley, and lines of olive-trees.
Where the priests trod the marble pavements of the Temple of the
Sun, the night-hawk broods over her eggs among the stones. The
yellow nettle grows, almost like a shrub, where garlands for the sacri-
ﬁce were gathered, and the white convolvulus and dog-rose run riot
over the foundation-stones of the ancient palaces.

But other powers have been here since the days of Ahab and J shit,
and the vengeful prephets of Israel. Herod rebuilt and fortiﬁed Sama-
ria, and called it Sebaste, in honor of Augustus (Sebastus) Caesar. Jo-

,-

 

