u sauna mu.

The cars are mere branches, whose boughs are tied together at the ex-
tremity. Though they bend too much, they answer their purpose
etty well: but the whole aﬂ'air looks rude and precarious enough.
curious contrast with their progress was that of the steimer, eon-
veying the Prince of Prussia, which we met to-day, hurrying down
from Thebes. We preferred our method of voyaging, though we new
advanced only about twelve miles a day, and had been fourteen days
making the same distance that we did the ﬁrst two.

We cannot understand why the country boats are so badly laden as
they appear to be. The cargo is placed so forward as to sink the
bows to the water; and so many founder in consequence that we can-
not conceive why the practice is not altered. We have seen several
sunk. One was a merchant boat that had gone down in the night,
with ﬁve peeple in her. She was a sad spectacle,-—her masts and rig-
ging appearing above water, in the middle of the stream.

On the morning of the 19th, on leaving our anchorage .near the high
rock of Chenoboscion, we found that a wind had sprung up; and we
enjoyed the sensation of more rapid progress. We might now hope
to see the temple of Dendara in a few hours. The Arabian mountains
retreated, and the Lybian chain advanced. Crocodiles plunged into
the water as we sailed past the mud banks. The doum palms
to congregate, and from clumps they became woods. Behind one of
these dark woods, I saw a mass of building which immediately ﬁxed-
my attention; and when a turn of the river brought us to a point where
the sunlight was shining into it, I could clearly distinguish the charac-
taristics of the temple of Dendara. I could see the massive portico ;—
the dark spaces between the pillars, and the line of the architrsve.
Thus much we could see for two hours from the opposite shore, as
Mr. E. had to ride up to Kenneh for letters: but,as the wind was fair,
and the temple was two miles 06', we left till our return any closer ex-
amination of it.

While Mr. E. and Alec were gone to the town, Mr. Y. walked
along the shore, in the direction of Selim Pasha’s boats; and Mrs. Y.
and I were busy about domestic business on board. I was sewing on
deck when Mr. Y. returned, and told me he had been invited to an
audience of Selim Pasha. When pipes and coffee had been brought,
conversation began, through the medium of some Italian gentlemen of
the Pashaj’s suite. On Mr. Y.’s' expressing his hope that, by means
of commerce, a friendly feeling between the Egyptians and English
would always subsist and increase, one of these ofﬁcers exclaimed,
" How should that be, when you have robbed us of Syria ‘1'” On Mr.
Y.’s paciﬁc observations being again received with an angry recurrence
to this sore subject, the Pasha interposed, saying, “These are great
and important affairs which are for our superiors to settle, and with
which we subordinates have nothing to do. Let us talk of something
pleasant.” While Mr. Y. was telling me this, an elderly man, with a
white beard, hideous teeth, and coarse face altogether, was approaching
the boat: and to my dismay, he stepped on board,—or rather, was
pushed in by his attendants. Mr. Y. had been sitting with his back

