312 * EASTERN Lrn.

call it, the Metamorphosis, and not to St. Catherine, whose relics only
are preserved here." We asked the monk what, according to him,the
name of the convent was; and he replied the Convent of Mount Sinai,
-—saying nothing about the Transﬁguration.

There is a large Mosaic representation of the Transﬁguration in the
dome of a chapel; a curious specimen of art to be seen in such a place.
But the pride of the brethren is in the chapel of the Burning Bush.
We were desired to enter it barefoot; but as I had laced boots on, I
ventured to disobey, and passed without remark. Our monk—guide
reverently bent under the altar, and removed a silver plate which covers
the spot where the Bush grew. The Bush itself, however, ﬂourishes
elsewhere, in one of the courts,—a shrub of the Ribes kind, I think,
which was sproutin vigorously. The monk, who plucked some twigs
for those who woul accept them, said with enthusiasm that it had
never dr00ped; “ and now,” he continued, “that it has ﬂourished for
three thousand years, I am sure it will never die.” The library con-
tains a large number of Greek books of monkish devotion, and a few
Arabic manuscripts, of which Burckhardt gives some account. I
picked up there an odd volume of the “ Spectator," left, no doubt, by
some traveler. Its title-page and fly-leaf are scribbled over with pious
curses by the Rev. Joseph Wolﬁ', who begins his vituperation with
“ He who left this book in this place merits to be beaten with forty
stripes save one,” &c. &c. *

The Monks sell Manna to strangers, in little round boxes, wherein
it coagulates to a mass, but melts when exposed to the sun. This sub-
stance exudes from the tamarisk in summer, and is most plentiful after
the most copious rains. It drops upon the ground from the twigs of
the tamarisk, which grows abundantly in the neighboring wadees.
The manna is picked up before sunrise, as it melts afterwards. The
Arabs boil and strain it, and keep it in skins, to serve instead of honey:
and very nourishing aliment it is said to be, if used sparingly. Its ap-
pearance is not very tempting. ‘

The monks make palm brandy in abundance, and drink it too. The
{site-faced and shrunken guide who took us up the mountain, could not

induced to eat cold fowl: it would be a sin to touch animal food ; but
he took a brave pull at the brandy bottle. Such are the differences of
morals among Christians!

Ithink the' unfavorable position of the convent .must be partly an-
swerable for- the pale faces of most of its inhabitants; thongh poor diet
and severe vigils, and apprehensions from the Bedoueens have, no
doubt, much to do with it. Mrs. Y. and I had the best room in the
convent,—spacious, clean, and with plenty of windows; butI could not
sleep; and the sense of oppression, while within the walls, was remark-
able. This is not to be wondered at, as a free circulation of air is im-
possible. The valley is so narrow as to be ﬁlled up, within twenty
feet or so, by the building, which slopes up the mountain backwards;
and the south end is closed in, at a short distance, by a precipitous bar-
rier. It is open only to the north; and how the place can be endured
in summer, I cannot conceive. The elevation of the whole region, it

