ma. LANE. 259

assure him that he is not working in vain. The King of Prussia has
been ﬁrst, as usual, to give encouragement. Since my return,I ﬁnd
that he has sent a commissioner to Egypt, by way of London, to make
arrangements for the establishment and diffusion of the work. I re-
joice at this: but I feel some shame that a foreign government should
ﬁrst have the honor—after the Duke of Northumberland—of welcom-
ing and fostering the work of an English scholar.

In thinking of Mr. Lane’s household, and the happy hours I spent
among them, it occurs to me to mention thus publicly (what it would
certainly never occur” to Mr. Lane and his family that I should mention
in relation to them), the idea that struck me there, and many times
since,—what a pity it is that such‘lads as his nephews are not looked
to to occupy sOme such public oﬂices in the East as are at present ﬁlled
imperfectly from‘the imperfect oriental education of English youths at
home. Here is Stanley Poole,—well educated as an English youth,
and trained in a virtuous and religious English home in the heart of the
East,—ﬁt, at the same time, to live among the people of the East all
his days ;—speaking their languages like his mother tongue, seasoned
to their climate, habituated to their ways, and familiar with their minds:
—-what a waste it will be if such a youth should be destined to any
occupation in life which might as well be discharged by any other good
and clever and accomplished Englishman, when there is such a want
of well-qualiﬁed diplomatic and consular agents, and (what is more
important still) scientiﬁc travelers who can maketheir way freely, and
use fully their opportunities in the East! While we keep at work
such expensive arrangements as we have at home for the preparation of
oriental ofﬁcers and agents, what a pity it seems not to use the rare
chance, when it presents itself, of securing the services of promising
youths in whom are united the advantages of an English and an East-
ern education! I say this wholly of my own accord, and without ‘
consultation with any one: and I shall be very glad if I ﬁnd that any
one who can act in the matter is of my opinion.

 

CHAPTER XXII.

THE HAREEM.

I snw two Hareems in the east; and it would be wrong to pass them
over in an account of my travels; though thelsubject is as little agree-
able as any I can have to treat. I cannot now think of the two morn-
ings thus employed without a heaviness of heart greater than I have
‘ ever brought away from Deaf and Dumb Schools, Lunatic Asylums,
or even Prisons. As such are my im ressions of hareems, of course
I shall not say whose they were that visited. Suﬂice it that one was
at Cairo and the other at Damascus.

The royal hareems were not accessible while I was in Egypt. The
Pasha’s eldest daughter, the widow of Defterdar Bey, was under her

