anroo. 01

paring to track. I was about to go ashore also for a walk, when I
observed that our Rais was getting out the sail, though there was not
a breath of wind. It was clear that he expected to fall in with a wind
at the next reach of the river: so I remained on board. Our sail caught
the eye of our Scotch friends. I saw the halt of their red tarbooshes
over the bushes that fringed the bank. They scampered back, and
leaped on board their boat: and in another moment, up went their sail.
In another, up went the American’s! Three sails, no wind, and three
crews tracking, at a pace scarcely less funereal than usual l—At the
expected point, the sails ﬁlled, all at the same instant, and off we went.
For an hour or more, I could not believe that we were gaining ground,
though Mr. E. declared we were. When it was becoming clear that
we were, he told that, provoking as it was, we must take in sail and
yield the race, as we had to take up, in yonder bay, our milk mes-
senger. There he was, accordingly; and quick was the manmuvre of
putting in, and snatching up the poor fellow. Half a dozen hands
hauled him in, and helped to spill the milk. Then, what a shout of
laughter there was when the Scotchman shortened sail, and took up
his milkman‘too : and after him, the Americans! We could relish the
milk now, which we had thought so much in our way before. The
race was fairly decided before ten o’clock. We beat, as we ought,
from the superiority of our boat: and before noon, our, Scotch friends
put into Isna (Beach) where their crew were to bake their bread.
This was the last place, north of the Cataract, where they could do so.

lens looks well from the river; but we could see nothing of the
temple, which is lost to view in the town. We left it for our return:
and we meant to do the same with that of Adfoo (Edfou). But it came
in sight while we were at dinner the next day, just when there was no
wind. We decided that .no time would be lost by arun up to the
temple: so we sprang ashore, among cotton and castor-oil plants, and
walked a mile in dust, through ﬁelds and under rows of palms, and
among Arab dwellings, to the front of the mighty ediﬁce. No one of
the temples of Egypt struck me more with the conviction that these
buildings were constructed as fortiﬁcations, asmuch as for purposes of
religious celebration. I will not here give any detailed account of this
temple; partly because I understood these matters better when I after-
wards saw it again: and yet more, because it was now almost buried
in dust, much of which was in course of removal on our return, for
manuring the land.—It was here, and now, that I was ﬁrst taken by
surprise with the beauty ;—the beauty of everything;—the sculptured
columns, with their capitals, all of the same proportion and outline,
though exhibiting in the same group the lotus, the date palm, the doum
pdm and the tobacco :—the decorations—each one, with its fullness of
meaning—a delicately sculptured message to all generations, through
all time :—and, above all, the faces. I had fancied the faces, even the
portraits, grotesque: but the type of the old Egyptian face has great
beauty, though a beauty little resembling that which later ages have
chosen for their type. It resembles, however, some actual modern
faces. in the sweet girlish countenances of Isis and Athor, I often

