304 mamas Lm.

came down upon the sea, and went in and out, between it and the
mountains, many times. The rocks were the most diversiﬁed I ever
saw. I noted them on the spot as being black, green, crimson, lilac,
maroon, yellow, golden and white : and their form was that of a whole
host of cones. Then we entered upon the wilderness of Sin, and the
plain was stony towards the striking entrance of Wadee Shelal. We
had now left Burckhardt’s track. He took the more northerly route
to Sinai, by Wadee Sheikh, but returned to Cairo by the one we were
on. We went by the more southerly track, which gave us the ad-
vantage of skirting Mount Serbal.

Some time after lunching under a projecting rock, we undertook the
great pass in Wadee Shelal. It was necessary to dismount—not so
much on account of the steepness of the ascent, which was, in fact, a
long zigzag staircase, as of its narrowness. A baggage-camel ﬁlled
the space completely ; and if one of these should press against a ridden
camel, the rider’s limbs would probably be crushed ainst the rock.
I led my camel up the pass ; and when I had crosseag the ridge, my
position seemed strange enough :—alone, leading my camel in a hollow
way, where the heat was like the mouth of a furnace, and where I
should hardly have supposed myself on our own familiar earth, but for
the birds which ﬂew up in the sunshine, and the dragon-ﬂies that ﬁitted
by. I now seemed to feel, for the ﬁrst time, true pity for the wander-
ing Hebrews. What a place was this for the Hebrew mothers with
their sucking babes! They who had lived on the banks of the never-
failing Nile, and drunk their ﬁll of its sweet waters, must have been
aghast at the aspect of a scene like this, where the eye, wandering as
it will. can see nothing but bright and solemn rocks and a sky without
a cloud. As I thought of their fevered children imploring water, and
their own failing limbs where there was no shade in which to rest, I
could imagine the agony of the Hebrew fathers, and well excuse their
despairing cry, “ Give us water that we may drink! Wherefore is
this that thou hast brought us up out of the land of Egypt. to kill us
and our children and our cattle with thirst? . . . Wherefore have
ye made us to come up out of Egy pt, to bring us unto this evil place ? It
is no place of seed, or of ﬁgs, or of vines, or of pomegranates: neither
is there any water to drink.” They were here in the early days of
their wandering, when the freshness of the Nile Valley was vivid in
their remembrance; and it was later in the year than when we tra-
veled this way. rTo them, the sun was more scorching than to us;
and the caked soil of the water-courses had become dry dust; and, as
Burckhardt found at a yet earlier season, the scanty foliage of the thorny-
acacia was all so dead and crisped with the heat as to ignite with a
spark. The faith of the meditative and instructed Moses must have
been strong to bear him up in such a scene: and what must have been
the clamor and despair of the slavish multitude, whose hope and con-
rage had been extinguished by that bondage which yet left their do-
mestic aﬂ'ections in all their strength! At every step, we found the
Scri tural imagery rising up before our minds—the imagery of over-
sha owing rocks, sheltering wings, water-brooks, and rain ﬁlling the

