nazsas'rn. 463

pels without perceiving: but this was a preparatory work aa—an all-im-
portant one in its season, and which required all the joint efforts of the
missionaries whom he sent through the land: but it was still only re-

aratory, and to last while the Law and the authority of the Prop ets
grated: and then was to come that new order of things which was called
his kingdom. From that very day of his appearance, the blind ides
of the people were to be shamed: the traditional fabrications an legal
pedantries of the Pharisees were to be set aside. for a worship which
should be in spirit and in truth. The Mosaic system had become a
sort of Dead Sea, overhung with heavy vapors, delusive to the eye,
and pernicious to the life: and a wholesome breeze was now to sWeep
over it, and make all vital and translucent. But the law itself was not
yet to be touched :—not “ one jot nor one tittle” was to pass away till
the new kingdom was prepared. This kingdom was what he that
day preached in the little synagogue at Nazareth. Others might have
sat in the same seat who taught that which was truth and life in com- .
parison with the teachings of the Pharisees: but here was One,—a
townsman, whose countenance was familiar to all who heard him,—
who proclaimed “the acceptable year of the Lord,” and announced the
glad tidings of a kingdom to come.

There are several laces on “ the brow of the hill whereon the city
was built,” whence t ey mi ht have intended to cast him down. The
monks show an impossible p ace, two miles off. It was enough for us
to station ourselves on the heights, and look about with clearer eyes
than the monks could have helped us to.

I am not aware that we have any record of any appearance of Christ
in the country west of Nazareth,—unless Dr. Robinson be ri ht in dif-
fering from other authorities as to the position of Cana of Gali ee.’ As
we rode, next da , however, from Nazareth to Mount Carmel, I could
not but regard al we saw as having been familiar to his eyes ; and I
was all day in a mood of rejoicin , for his sake, that this nook of the
world was so full of loveliness. cannot agree with those who regard
the life of Jesus as the mournful scene which it is commonly conceived
to be. It is natural enough for us to look upon it as mournful. The
tenderness of our gratitude and love makes us dwell on the sad features
of his lot :—on the lowness of mind of his followers,—on the absence
of sympathy in his family,—on the malice of his enemies,—on the
apparent failure of his mission,—and on his humiliating and early
death. But did these things make up his life? Have we no truer
and higher sympathy with him than to be always looking for the thorns
that strewed his path, without remembering the glorious world that '
spread around him, and the clear heavens over his head? Had he not
all the gifts of the soul,—a hi her wealth than that of the whole world!
Had he not the pleasures a? moral sympathy? If he was tortured,
even into expressions of vehement wrath, by the evil tempers of the
Pharisees, had he not intense enjo ents from the same source of sen-
sibility! Did not the widow at t e treasury, and the centurion, and

' Biblical Researches, III. 204.

