ms noun-r or snamunns. 471

matters: in short, to solemn triﬂing from mere expositors. Now they
were refreshed, through their whole heart and soul, by cheerful, fami-
liar, colloquial, original teaching from a prophet, who spoke without
book, and so directly and simply that the children might understand.
Our lifelong reverence for him, and our sabbatical associations with
the records of his words, naturally unﬁt us at home for perceiving the
intense familiarity of his teachings, and the beauty of that method of
appeal. What we feel to be so deeply true and beautiful we utter re-
verently,—-as we ought: and the imagery is to us something foreign,
and belonging to a remote poetical and spiritual region; so that the
names and images cannot slip over the tongue like those of the corre-
sponding imagery at home. We even shrink from a full realization of
the truth as from a kind of irreverence ;—so that, at this moment, I
ﬁnd it difﬁcult to say plainly what I mean. What I mean is plainly
this. If Jesus were of Saxon race, and came now to reform and free
our souls, his imagery would be- our rural cottages and the lalleys‘of
our towns; the redbreast, the dog-rose and bramble: as in Galilee
they were the rock and sand-built houses, the ravens and the lilies of
the ﬁeld. He would call our political and religious sects, our Magis-
trates and Bishops, by their ordinary names: and so, assuredly, he
would the towns which received, and those which rejected his teach-
ings. It may sound irreverent, but it ought not to do so, to conceive
of him as saying “ Alas! for you, LiverpooI,—alas! for you, Bristol l”
and as declaring that proud Edinburgh or Lontlon should be humbled.
When one stands where I stood this day, above the lake, and among
the wild ﬂowers, and within sight of the places of thehenounced cities,
one feels a more intense relief,—a more cheerful and animated love for
those effectual discourses, than can ever be felt at home except by such
as have sufﬁcient strength of imagination and of piety, and sufﬁcient
knowledge, to transport themselves to the Teacher’s side, in his own
native region, and learn from himself alone,—puttin aside all devices
and superstitions of mam—what it was that he won] say to every one
of us. To my apprehension, on the spot, and with the records of his
life in my hand, and the recollections of Egypt and of Sinai fresh in
my mind, nothing could be simpler than his recorded words, and no-
thing less like what is superstitiously and irreverently taught, as coming
from him, in most of the churches of Christendom. Here he stood as
the way, the truth and the life :-—the Messiah who was, as he believed,
to lead his people into a new and spiritual kingdom, into which man-
kind might enter, when the Law had been fulﬁlled. Here he stood as
the truth and the life, to bring men into that closer connection with God
as their Father which was to be added to their ancient relation to .le-
hovah as their King. He strove to detach their minds from the forms
and means of religion, and ﬁx their hearts upon its life and reality.
He strove to raise them into a condition of earnestness, sincerity, and
gentle affections towards God, and their neighbors, and their enemies:
and to ﬁt them thus for entrance upon his new kingdom of righteous-
ness, whose approaching establishment was his great topic of promise.
And he used for all this a method of appeal, such as every eﬂ'ectual

