486 usnntv Lin.

volcanic débrt's, we came upon fantastic white limestone hills, which
gave a curious yellow tint to the landscape, when they formed a fore-
ground to the snows of Djebel Sheikh.

As for the people—the herdsmen on these upland plains were much
like Arab herdsmen everywhere; but among the ﬁrst people we met
were two Druse women. The horn looked less monstrous than [had
expected; and these women were so handsomely dressed, and looked
so well, with their gold ornaments, down each side of the face under
the veil, that the impression made on us by the ﬁrst Druse women we
had seen was very favorable. Two pretty children were with them,
who returned my salutation with much grace. I used to salute(by
touching the forehead and breast) all the gray-haired people I met in
these mountains; and all the children and most others: and my salu-
tation was, without a single exception, returned. It certainly pleased,
rather than displeased, the people; and it gave me a good opportunity
of seeing their faces. The horn appears to be the point of honor with
the Druse woman, as the heard is that of the Eastern man. When the
bride assumes the horn, and hangs the veil over it, she presents her
husband with a dagger, and desires him to kill her if she proves un-
faithful. The Druse woman rarely does prove unfaithful; but, in such
a case, the husband returns her" horn to her family without explanation:
and they know that the dagger has done its work, and that the wife
will be heard of no more.

As for the new thoughts that we plunged into, when we had passed
that ridge, they were such as, I suppose, occur naturally in this extrr
ordinary country, where the diversity of faiths is greater than in any
land which the English traveler enters. In Egypt, there was but
one faith, during the ages on which our attention was ﬁxed through;
out our Nile voyage. The Greeks and others derived gods from Egypt.
but never added one to the Egyptian pantheon. In the Sinai penin'
sula, we were concerned with only one; for there also, our interests
were altogether in the past. In Palestine, we found the meeting-palm
of all the faiths of the ancient world—the reservoir into which ﬂow
streams from all the heights of human thought; and we saw how. from
this reservoir, one came to send forth among men, purer waters of life
than had ever hitherto been dispensed. This gave a distinctiveness t9
Palestine, among the homes of the Faiths, greater than Egypt or Sinai
could claim, inasmuch as the latest of these faiths was more ﬁt for uni'
versal adaption in the course of ages. Whether all were derived from
some primitive Ideas, we know not; nor can ever know but by In?"
light being Cast on early Egyptian history. That none were found to
suﬂice is proved by each having issued in some other; but each marks
its own region of the East, as the birthplace of one of the leading faiths
of the world. We had now entered a country where no leading faith
had its origin, but where all are found at this day. existing in vigor, but
in conﬂict; and I, for one, had my mind eagerly awake to observe
their operation. There was no more repose now, as for some week5
past, on a familiar faith, whose origin and progress we could trace from
hill to bill, by valley, lake and river along- our road. We could no

