mumm. 177

family had satisﬁed his claims; and the priests could refuse a tomb till
it could be paid for. It became the ambition of the family of a debtor
to furnish forth, sooner or later, a grand funeral, which, as the liabili-
ties of the deceased must be ﬁrst discharged, was in fact a restoration
of the family honor.—In some cases of strong conjugal affection, the
survivor retained at home the body of the departed, that both might be
carried to the tomb together: but in such cases, it was always under-
stood that a respectable funeral was in reserve.

The priests kept a number of tombs always ready,—-probably
covered with the ordinary kinds of paintings, and ﬁnished, except in
the blank spaces left for the name and titles and character of the occu-
pant. It is certain that services for the dead and offerings to them were
celebrated at times long after the funeral; and it is thought probable
that in cases where a new name is put over the old one, and a different
family has clearly come into possession of the place, there may have
been a discontinuance of the payments and offerings given for services
for the deceased, and the priestshave letthe tomb for a second-hand
place of burial.‘ Kings and wealthy families no doubt purchased the
site, or the excavated chambers, and adorned them according to their
own taste; often beginning the work in early manhood, as I-have men-
tioned before, and carrying it on till the day of death.

When I speak of the services and offerings to the dead, it» does not
follow that these were presented within the tomb. The tomb appears
to have been closed and sealed at once. But small altars, sculptured
with offerings, have, in so many instances, been. found before the en-
trances of tombsd‘ that we may suppose the rites to have been celebrated
there.

After permission to pass on had been given by the judges, an eulogy
on the deceased, and a prayer to the gods for his welfare in Hades,
were read by one of the ofﬁciating priests; and Charon proceeded in
his ferrying. When the opposite shore was reached, and the proces-
sion landed, the ground was sprinkled before the wheels of the funeral
car; and sometimes palm-branches were strewn in the way.1 The
body was sometimes crowned with amaranth or other everlastings, or
with bay-leaves, or fresh ﬂowers.§

There was much display of sorrow. In the paintings of funeral
rites, we always see mourners throwing dust on their heads, beating
themselves, and evidently uttering cries.——ln ordinary cases, the body
was laid in one of the pits or recesses in the tomb: but in the case of
kings and great men, we know that there was a sarcophagus in a cham-
ber appropriated to it.

say, a law which forbade borrowing except on condition of the body of the borrower’s
father being given in pledge. It was added to this law that the creditor should also
have in his power the burial of the debtor; and that if he refused to pay the debt
for which he had deposited a pledge so precious, he could not, after his death, he
laid in the tomb of his fathers, nor in any other; and that he could not, after the
death of any of his own family, render them this honor.”

' Wilkinson’s Ancient Egyptians, V. 384. Ibid. V. 387.

1 Ibid. V. 421. Ibid. V. 428.

12

