menus or manna. 117

arise, that where in the midst of what is solemn and beautiful he
meets with what appears to modern eyes puerile and grotesque, such
an appearance may scene, and there may be a meaning contained 1n
it which is neither puerile nor grotesque. He will consider that Cam-
byses might be more foolish 1n stabbing the bull Apis, to show that it
could bleed, which nobody denied, than the priests in conserving a
sacred idea 1n the form of the bull. He will consider that the Sphinx
might be to Egyptian eyes, not a hideous compound animal, as it is
when carved by an English stone mason for a park gate, but a sacred
symbol of the union of the strongest physical with the highest intel-
lectual power on earth.

The seriousness I plead for comes of itself into the mind of any
thoughtful and feeling traveler, at such a moment as that of entering
the great temple of Aboo-Simbil. I entered it at an advantageous
moment, when the morning sunshine was reﬂected from the sand out-
side so as to cast a twilight even into the adytum,—two hundred feet
from the entrance. The four tall statues in the adytum, ranged behind
the altar, were dimly visible: and I hastened to them, past the eight
Osirides, through the next pillared hall, and across the corridor. And
then I looked back, and saw beyond the dark halls and shadowy
Osirides the golden sand-hill without, a corner of blue sky, and a gay
group of the crew in the sunshine. It was like looking out upon life
from the grave. When we left the temple, and the sun had shifted its
place, we could no longer see the shrine. It is a great advantage to
enter the temple ﬁrst when the sun is rather low in the east.

The eight Osirides are perfectly alike,—-all bearing the crosier and
ﬂagellum, and standing up against huge square pillars, the other sides
of which are sculptured, as are the walls all round. The aisles behind
the Osirides are so dark that we could not make out the devices without
the help of torches , and the celebrated medallion picture of the siege
would have been missed by us entirely, if one of the crew had not
hoisted another on his shoulders, to hold a light above the height of
their united statures. There we saw the walled town, and the pro-
ceedings of the besieged and besiegers, as they might have happened
in the middle ages. The north wall is largely occupied by a tablet,
bearing the date of the ﬁrst year of Ramases the Great: and on the
other side of the temple, between two of the pillars, is another tablet,
bearing the date of the thirty- -ﬁfth year of his reign. The battle scenes
on the walls are all alive with strong warriors, ﬂying foes, trampled
victims, and whole companies of chariots. I observed that the chariot
wheels were not mere disks, as we should have expected in so early
an age, but had all six spokes. Every chariot wheel I saw in the
country had six spokes, however early the date of the sculpture or
painting. , One ﬁgure on the south wall is admirable.-—a warrior in red,
who is spearing one foe, while he has his foot on the head of another.

There are two groups of chambers, of three each, opening out of
this large hall. and two more separate side chambers. The six in-
cluded 1n the two groups are very nearly (but not quite) covered with
representations of offerings to the gods. very pretty, but with little

