444 small Lin.

embraced Christianity, after Peter’s repulsion, as to have the power of
immediately adulterating it. It was through his schools that the cor-
' ruption reached Christianity, when men who held both doctrines began
fatally to blend them, overlaying the simple teachings of Jesus with
mysteries and allegories and fables, as injurious to the honor of God
and the moral operation of the gospel as the devices of the Pharisees
had been in the far less important case of the system of Moses. That
Simon Magus lived on the hill towards which we were new setting our
faces, is a misfortune to many a child in England born within this year.
That the company of the apostles should have bad among them such a
poet and theologian as John the Evangelist, and that he should have
become the apostle of Asia, and have applied its theosophy to the inter-
pretation of scriptural records and facts, may occasion perplexity and
uneasiness to Bibliolators; but it cannot fail to work well in the end.
As Salvador says“ of John and his writings, “ the purpose that he had
of absorbing into the doctrine of his master the highest theosoPhic ideas
of the oriental Jews among whom he spent the greater part of his life.
caused him to have recourse to forms, and to a language altogethcr
whose meaning we may suppose to have been never familiar to his
eleven colleagues. Far, however, from complaining of the diﬂ'ercncs!»
of the contradictions even, which we meet with in this quadruple
monument (the Four Gospels) we must see that these diﬂ'erences cou-
stitute its true value: they magnify it by preserving the simple and in-
voluntary impress of men and circumstances, and by connecting it
together with all the writings of the rising school, with monuments of
an older date, and with the general state of the region and of the
times.”

Our last view of Jerusalem was very ﬁne. We looked back from I
ridge on the N ablous (the northern) road, and saw it lying, bright and
stately, on its everlasting hills: but it looked lower than from most
other (points of view, from the Moab mountains forming its lofty back-
groun . We descended the slope before us, and lost sight of the Holy
City for ever. .

Again we were struck with the vivid coloring of the scenery. All
this day, the hills were dressed in brilliant hues ;--the soil, red, gray.
and brown ; the tilled portions of the brightest green ; and the shadows
purple or lilac. All the hills show traces of having been once t9!"
raced; and they were still completely so in the neighborhood of our
encampment this evening,—the terraces following the strata of the
stone, which all lay slanting. This gives a singular air of wildness
to the most cultivated spots. Here and there were basins among the
hills, full of corn, or with their red soil drOpped all over with ﬁg and
olive trees : and the upland tracks wound among slopes all strewn with
oistus, iris, cyclamen and anemones, and bristling with tall flowering
hollyhocks. In the hollows were deep old wells, or stone cisterns,
where the cattle were crowding to drink. A few camels were brows-
ing, here and there, in the dells : and we met several groups of Arabs

' “Jésus Christ et sa Doctrine,” I. 152, 153.

