Lm “cm“. 511‘

how long these ideas will govern mankind; and how largel they will
enter into the views which must, sooner or later, arise out o the West-
ern Mind, to animate and enlighten future generations in all the regit’ms
of the earth. It is scarcely probable that the function ‘of the western
races should for ever continue to be to receive and amplify governing
ideas, and never to originate any.-—The world-and human life are, as
yet, obviously very young. Human existence is, as yet, truly infantiner
in famine in its unconsciousness of its best povVers, in the restriction of
its knowledge, and in its subjection to its natural passions. It can=
hardly be but that, in its advance to its maturity, new departments of
its strength will be developed, and the‘ reﬂective and substantiating
powers which characterize the Western Mind be brought into union with
the Perceptive, Imaginative and Aspiring Faculty of the East, was
to originate a new order of knowledge and wisdom, and give a conti-
nually higher and truer employment to the faculties of Reverence, self-
government, and obedience which are common to the whole race.

From out of these speculations now spoke the still small voice of
conscience, prescribing the part which every thoughtful person who
had accepted the privilege of exploring these Eastern regions, should
take in aid of the work of enlightening the human mind. Such a
function, once recognized, is nm to he declined by any one because his
powers are humble, his knowledge partial, and his inﬂuence insigniﬁ-
cant in his own eyes. The thoughtful traveler must have some know-
led e, and some ideas which he could not have obtained at home, and
WhICh the generality of people at home cannot obtain for themselves.
These he cannot, in ﬁdelity to himself and his fellow-men, ignore, or
bury out of the way of his convenience and repose. If he derives
from his travels norhing but picturesque and amusing impressions,—
nothing but mere pastime.—he uses like a child a most serious and
manlike privilege. The humblest thinker, the most diﬁdent inquirer,
may be ashamed to make so mean a use of so gracious an opportunit .
Moreover, he will be afraid of so selﬁsh and undutiful a levity. [Io
feels that. however lowly his powers, he must use such knowledge and
reﬂective faculty as he has: and again, he feels that if he can speak,
he must.

He must speak; and with ﬁdelity. Bringing together, and testin
with his best care, what he knows, he must say what he thinks, and a
that he thinks, on the t0pics of which his mind is full. It is no
concern of his whether what he thinks is new; nor, in this relation,
whether it is abstractedly and absolutely true. Probably, no one can
say anything which is abstractedly and absolutely true. When all
thinkers say freely what is to them true,we shall know more of abstract
and absolute truth than we have ever known yet.—lt is no concern of
the thoughtful traveler’s whether what he says is familiar or strange,
agreeable or unacceptable, to the prejudiced or to the wise. His only
concern is to keep his ﬁdelity to truth and man: to say simply and, if
he can, fearlessly, what he has learned and concluded. If he be mis-
taken, his errors will be all the less pernicious for being laid open to
correction. If he be right, there will be so much accession, be it little

33! .

