50 nuns Lin.

have derived their ideas of art from Hindustan, and propagated them
down the Nile. No one can now positively contradict it. But I did
not feel on the spot that any derived art was likely to be in such per-
fect harmony with its surroundings as that of Egypt certainly is—a
harmony so wonderful as to be perhaps the most striking circumstance
of all to a European, coming from a country where all art is derived,‘
and its main beauty therefore lost. It is useless to speak of the beauty
of Egyptian architecture and sculpture to those who, not going to
Egypt, can form no conception of its main condition—its appropriate-
ness. I need not add that I think it worse than useless to ad0pt E

tian forms and decoration in countries where there is no Nile and no
Desert, and where decorations are not, as in Egypt, fraught with mean-
ing—pictured language—messages to the gazer. But [must speak
more of this hereafter. Suﬁce it now that in the hills, angular at their
summits, with angular mounds at their bases, and angular caves in
their strata, we could not but at once see the originals of temples,
pyramids and tombs. Indeed, the pyramids look like an eternal ﬁxing
down of the shifting sand-hills which are here a main feature of the
desert. If we consider further what facility the desert has aﬂ'orded for
scientiﬁc observation—how it was the ﬁeld for the meteorological studies
of the Egyptians, and how its permanent pyramidal forms served them,
whether originally or by derivation, with instruments of measurement
and calculation for astronomical purposes—we shall see that, one way
or another, the desert has been a great benefactor to the Egyptians of
all time, however fairly regarded, in some senses, as an enemy. The
sand may, as I said before, have a fair side to its character, if it has
taken a leading part in determining the ideas, the feelings, the worship,
the occupation, the habits, and the arts of the people of the Nile valley,
for many thousand years.

The hills now, above Antazopolis, approached the river in strips,
which, on arriving at them, we found to be united by a range at the
back. Some ﬁne sites for cities were thus aﬂ'orded, and many of
them were no doubt thus occupied in past ages. A little further on
rises a lofty rock; a precipice three hundred feet high, which our Rain
was afraid to pass at night. I was on deck before sunrise on the morn-
ing of the 11th to see it, but 1 found there was no hurry. A man was
sent for milk from this place, so I landed too and walked some way
along the bank. On the Lybian side I overlooked a rich, green, clum y
country; on the Arabian side, the hills came down so close to e
water as to leave only a narrow path, scarcely passable for camels at
high Nile. There were goats among the rocks; and on the other
shore, sheep, whose brown wool is spun by distaﬂ', by menin the
ﬁelds, or traveling along the bank. The unbleached wool makes the

' Even the Gothic spire is believed by those who know best to be an aﬂoat-id
obelisk; as the obelisk is an attenuated pyramid. Our Gothic aisles are some“
conjectured to be a symmetrical stone copy of the glades of a threat; but there In
pillared aisles at El Karnac and Medeenet Haboo, which were constructed in a
muntry which had no woods, and before the forests of northern Europe are discerni-
blointhe dim picture of ancient history. ‘ '

