cnuortomoms. 91

declaring himself to be the sixteenth in descent from a god. Upon
this, the priest conducted him into a great building of the temple, where
they-pointed out to him (as afterwards to Herodotus) the statues‘of
their high priests. Each high priest placed a colossal wooden statue
of 'himself in this place during his life; and each was the son of his
predecessor. The priests would not admit that any of these was the
son of a god. From ﬁrst to last they were of human origin; and here
in direct lineal succession, were 345. Taking the average length of
human life, how many thousand years would be occupied by the suc-
cession of 345 high priests, in a direct line from father to son ! Ac-
cording to the priests, it was nearly 5000 years from the time of Horus.
They further informed Herodotus that gods did reign in Egypt before
they deputed their power to mortals.‘ They spoke of eight gods who
reigned ﬁrst,—among whom was one answering to Pan of the Greeks;
then came twelve of another series: and again, twelve more, the off-
spring of the second series: and of these Osiris was one; and it was
not till after the reign of his son Horus that the ﬁrst of these 345 high
priests came into power. From Osiris to king Amasis, the priests
reckoned 15,000 years, declaring that they had exact registers of the
successive lives which had ﬁlled up the time.‘l Such is the legendary
history, as it existed 500 years before Christ. We can gather from it
thus much,—that the priests then looked back upon a long reach of
time, and believed the art of registering to be of an old date.

Here we have the earliest report of dates offered us. According to
the latest researches¢ we cannot place the formation of the Egyptian
empire under Menes, nearer to us than 5500 years ago. And the
Egyptians were then a civilized people, subject to legislation and exe-
cutive authority, pursuing trade, and capable of the arts. A longer or
shorter series of centuries must be allotted for bringing them up to this
state, according to the views of the students of social life: but the
shortest must bring us back to the current date of the creation of man.
How these ﬁve or six thousand years are ﬁlled up, we may see here-
after.

Leaving it to my readers to ﬁx for themselves the point of time for
our survey of the most ancient period of Egyptian history, I may be
permitted to appoint the place. Let us take our stand above the Se-
cond Cataract ;—on the rock of Abooseer, perhaps, where I could only
look over southwards, and not go and learn. This is a good station,
because it is a sort of barrier between two chains of monuments: a fron-
tier resting-place, whence one may survey the area of ancient Egyp-
tian civilization from end to end.

Looking down the river, northwards, beyond the Nubian region
(then Ethiopia) beyond the First Cataract, and far away over the great
marsh which occupied the Nile valley, we see, coming out of the dark-
ness of oblivion, Menes, the ﬁrst Egyptian king, turning the river from
its course under the Lybian mountain into a new bed, in the middle of

' Herod. II. 144, 146. T Ibid. 145.
I Bunsen. " Egypt‘s Place in the World’s History.”

It

