run so mama. 8'7!

again,—-Jnot*coming'near us, or using any threats. If I had not known
that the Arabs, though they can occasionally talk about revenge, are
not apt to bear malice, I should have felt rather uneasy; but there was
no worse result than-a conﬁrmation of our Sheikh’s conviction that
Mr. E. was the greatest man in Europe. Our sﬂ'airs with old Husu‘
sein certainly taught us that the .display of force and imperiousness
which we always hear of as necessary with the Arabs, is no more not
eessary with them than with any other people. Mr. E. did not show
his arms, or look ﬁerce, or talk big. He was fearless, steady, and
goothempcred; and the old chief was as completely‘subdued as *he
could have been by any demonstration of physical force. Mr. E. had
the thanks of our whole company for his moderation and firmness; and
I consider it'no small result of our' adventures in the Desert that we
have proof how manly goodness will avail with a tribe of ' peeple with
whom it has hitherto been considered necessary to use force or the
threat of ‘ it. The manliness is, however, indispensable. Reasonable-v
ness and amability ‘will not do without ﬁrm speech and fearless face.

We had'the pleasure of entering upon a green wadee before we
stopped to-day ;-~of'riding*over grass, however thin it might bar-band
seeing by the wayside the purple iris, large and small, wild oats, daisies;
butter-cups, and abundance of the homely mallow. The whole ground
might have been English, except for the ﬁne scarlet anemones, which
i grew as plentifully as any other weed. We had sand-hills’on'the’une
hand, and stony hills on the other; and when we came to a pleasant
nook, partly sheltered from the wind (which blew strong), and wow
spread with grass, Mr. E. dismounted. I was amused to see the
Sheikh’s celerity in striking his spear, and his emphasis in giving
orders, as if it was he who had chosen the resting¢place.

Four scorpions were found in twotents, as soon as they were
pitched; and the number-of black beetles under the stones was m‘
derful. There was a fort on a rising ground above us; and from that
height, the ﬂat-topped trees in the wadees looked picturesque. It was
observable that they were of larger growth now, day by‘day; cape“
cially the thorny-acacia.

The dragomen expressed themselves glad that we had nearly done
with Hussein’s Arabs, who had been throughout the journ lazy,
disobliging, and always wanting pay,——loading the camels b ly, and
spoiling the things, refusing to re-load what fell, and to get water, or
render any service asked of them. For their rapacity, they had the
example of their chief: and their laziness might be partly excused on
the score of weakness from hunger.

The Sheikh sought an interview this afternoon with Mr. E. ; and he
demanded the rest of his money. He was told he should have it at
Hebrou, and not before; whereupon he said he should draw of all
his men and camels that night, and leave us in the Desert. He was
told that we could not prevent him, if he chose to do that; but that he
had better consider the consequences; that we had a friend at Cairo in
the Consul-general, and that if any harm happened to us, or to any
British subject. through his means, the Pasha would take care that it

