66 nsmn Lin.

were walking on shore at noon, among men and children busy about
their tillage, and sheep and asses and shadoofs, when we saw two
boats, bearing the British and American ﬂags, ﬂoating down the stream.
They wore round, and landed their respective parties, who were Cairo
acquaintances of ours. Neither party had been beyond Thebes. How
we pitied them when we thought of Philte and the Cataracts, and the
depths of Nubia, which we were on our way to see! The English
gentlemen were pressed for time, and were paying their crew to work
night and day; by which they did not appear to be gaining much.
The American gentleman and his wife were suﬂ'ering cruelly under the
misery of vermin in their boat: a trouble which all travelers in Egypt
must endure in a greater or less degree, but which we found much less
terrible than we had expected, and reducible to something very triﬂing
by a little housewifely care and management.‘ The terms in which
they spoke of Thebes, after even their hasty journey, warmed our
hearts and raised our spirits high.

The next day was the shortest day. It was curious to observe how
we had lately gained ﬁve minutes of sunlight by our progress south-
wards. Though we cared to—day for nothing but Thebes, we conde-
scended to examine, in our early walk, a strange, dreary-looking place
which we were informed was one of the Pasha’s schools. It was a
large square mud building, crumbling away in desolation. -No chil-
dren were there; but two oﬂicers stared at us out of a window. An-
other, armed to the teeth, entered the enclosure, and spoke to us, we
suppose in Arabic, as he passed. The plots of ground were neglected,
and the sheds losing their roofs. It is evident that all is over with this
establishment, while the people of the district appear in good condi-
tion. There were shadoofs at small distances, and so many husband-
men at hand that they relieve each other every two hours at this labo-
rious work, a crier making known along the bank the expiration of the
time. We walked through ﬂourishing ﬁelds of tobacco and millet:
and we gathered. for the ﬁrst time, the beautiful yellow blossom of the
cotton shrub. The castor oil plant began here to be almost as beauti-
ful as the cotton.

Whenever we went for a walk, we wei'e most energetically warned
against the dogs of the peasantry: and one of the crew always sprang
ashore with a club for our defence, when we were seen running into
the great danger of going where we might meet a dog. I suppose the
danger is real—so invariably did the peasants rush towards us, on the
barking of a dog, to pelt the animal away. I never saw any harm
done by a dog, however; and 1 never could remember to be on my
guard; so that one or another of the crew had often to run after me at
311] speed, when I had forgotten the need of a club bearer, and gone

one.

From breakfast time this day, we were looking over southwestwards,
to the Lybian hills which we knew contained the Tombs of the Kings:
and before noon, we had seen what we can never forget. On our re-

. Appendix B.

