rnrmn . 145

open to the slry. The ceiling is still brightly colored, as .are the
ten columns. They are completely covered with sculptures, which
shine in a variety of blues and reds, and the pale green which is so
beautiful everywhere. The walls here, and in all the succeeding
chambers, are completely covered with rich painted sculptures, whose
compartments are divided by borders which are not merely decorative,
but emblematic also. To the .uninitiated eye, these dectnations are
what we commonly call Greek borders—with no more meaning than so
many strips of color. But to their beauty they add meanings such as
we never think of embodying in decoration, while we have the print-
ing-press and engraving to communicate our ideas by. Here every
morsel of decoration is a message or admonition. While by the princi-
ple of repetition (the value of which theEgyptians understood so well),
the best decorative effect is produced, every element employed speaks

I its own meaning to the mind—or did to the minds of ancient visitors.

: Here we have the lotus—alternate bud and leaf stem (from which our
common iron palisading is copied)-and there the droopingscup; here
the ibis, and there the wildaluckand reeds; here the symbols of purity
and stability in alternation, and there those of life and power. These
borders run everywhere, and ﬁll up all spaces not required for'more
special appeals to the worshiping mind.

To this court succeeds a corridor which leads round the corner of
the next chamber, tolan entrance to some vaults. The entrance (is a
mere pit, and the gentlemen could not get far in the subterranean cham-
bers for want of light. Beyond the corridor lie two chambers, for once,-
with doors answering to each other. Instead of one Holy Place,-tbere
are two; an unusual circumstance, but not a singular one. We found
the same, and also two partals, at Kém Umboo, where the temple is
dedicated to two deities. Thewestern adytum here is very dark, and
smaller than the Other, and its walls are so plastered over with mud as
hardly to leave any indications of the devices. The eastern adytum
was in much the same condition; but some happy cleaning'has laid
open a beautiful group, of Osiris, and Isis nursing Horus, with an
attendant behind. The faces of mother and child arefresh and pleas-
rn . . ,

gl‘his account will give some idea of the arrangement of ' the great
temple of Isis at Philm.‘ I have said nathing of several lateral cham-
bers, and erections on the roof, which have no immediate. connection
with the general plan. I went wherever it was possible to go—on the
roof and to the top of both propyla—so that the confusion I had felt so
painfully before, disappeared under the study from the heights of the
ediﬁce.

As for the external buildings,-—there is a little temple on the western
bank ﬁlled with the pictured feats and henors of the god Nilus, who is
there for ever at his favorite work of binding up his water plants.—
0n the eastern side, there was once a ﬁne portal of approach which is
now ﬁlled up nearly to the capitals of its columns, and built up between
those capitals, and thus made into a wretched Arab hovel. As it was
empty, and had sculptures, and the capitals were beatnifnl, I went in,

10

