40 nss'ran LIFE.

The crew were tracking this morning, for the. ﬁrst time ;—stepping
along at a funeral pace, and slipping off, one by one, to light a pipe
where four or ﬁve smokers were pulling in a circle, among the sugar-
canes. Our crew never appeared tired with their tracking; but in the
mornings they were slow; and the man who was sent for milk moved
very lazily, whether the one chosen were the briskest or thesquietest
of the company. The cook was rather too deliberate about breakfast,
and Alee himself was not a good riser. It was their winter; and cold
makes the Arabs torpid instead of brisk. Presently, we had to cross
to the more level bank; and then we ﬁrst saw our people row. It was
very ridiculous. They sang at the top of their voices, some of them
throwing their heads back, shutting their eyes, and shaking their heads
at every quaver, most pathetically,-—dipping their oars the while as if
they were skimming milk, and all out of time with their singing, and
with one another, while their musical time was perfectly good.—The
wind presently freshened, and we stood away. It was ﬁtful all day,
but blew steadily when the moon rose. Just then, however, the Rais
took fright about passing the next point at night, and we moored,
beside four other boats, in the deep shadow of a palm-grove. On these
occasions, two men of the neighborhood and a dog are appointed to
guard each boat that moors to the bank. The boat pays three pias-
tres;* and if anything is lost, complaint is made to the Governor of the
district, whose. business it is to recover the property, and punish the

ards. .
gruAs we approached Manfaloot, we could perceive how strangely old
Nile has gone out of his course, as if for the purpose of destroying the
town. The bed of the river was once evidently at the base of the hills,—
those orange hills with their blue shadows,—where rows of black holes
show ancient catacombs. So strong a reﬂected light shone into one of
these caves, that we could see something of its interior. We called it
a perfect smuggler’s cave, with packages of goods within, and a dog on
guard at the entrance. When we looked at it with the glass, however,
we were grave in a moment. We saw that the back and roof were
sculptured.

Manfaloot is still a large place, sadly washed down,—-sliced away—
by the encroachment of the river. Many houses were carried away
last year; and some which looked as if cut straight through their inte-
rior, have probably followed by this time.

The heat was now great in the middle of the day; and the glare
oppressive to people who were on‘the look-out for crocodiles ;—as we
were after passing Manfaloot. We were glad of awning, goggles, fans,
and oranges. But the crew were all, alive,—kicking dust over one
another on shore, leaping high in the water, to make a splash, and per-
petrating all manner of practical jokes. We do not agree with travel-
ers who declare it necessary to treat these people with coldness and
severity,—to repel and beat them. We treated them as children; and
this answered perfectly well. I do not remember that any one of them

' About 7d.

