nm. 856

-—a sharp-cut passage between perpendicular rocks. A little thicket
of ' wild ﬁgs and oleanders nearly shrouds the entrance: beyond which
rises, on the opposite side of a small area, a massive wall of masonry,
supporting a platform, on which might have stood a fort. Here the
excavations again begin to abound; and .for about a mile, we had all
about us white rocks, squared into towers, hollowed into vaults, and
cut out into abodes andbaths consisting of many chambers, and adorned
with pediments, and in one instance, with four small pyramids springing
from the architrave. The rock chambers which are crowned with
these pyramids appeared to us to be baths; at least, the lower series;
for there are two stories. The lower stories have to be reached by a
clamber, far from easy, to the base of a ﬂight of wide shallow steps,
cut in a rock too smooth to aﬂ'orda footing otherwise. In the principal
lower chamber is a deewin extending round three sides, and ascended
by two steps at each extremity. From a lateral chamber, there is a
window looking into a dark apartment, so full of little pits as to rev
semble the working vats in a brewery. Travelers have hitherto sup-
posed these to be graves; but we thought them more likely to be baths.
The encroachments of nature upon these by-places of art are curious
to observe. In one chamber near, I remarked -a vigorous nightshade
growing; and from a deep pit sprang a large ﬁg—tree, covered with
green fruit, which was still climbing to the light. In another chamber,
a lasting thorn was the only inhabitant. ' In every lateral deﬁle of this
suburb of Petra, (as we may call it.) that I entered, there were more,
and still more, excavations—aristocratic abodes for the living or the
dead, retired into aristocratic" retreats. There they were, in ﬁssures
and. corners, just disclosed behind the green thickets!

I saw here, in the outskirts, a substantially built drain, ﬁrst deep cut
in a slope of rock, and then well built with thick sides, and now choked
up with dust and rubbish. And afterwards I observed what appeared
from below to be gutters and spouts, brought across the rocks at the
height of the pinnacles of. the loftiest temples, and down their sides,
as if to carry 06‘ from the excavations the waters which would other-
wise’stream down upon them after the rains.

When we came home to rest at noon, we were told that the clergy-
man who had made a great point of being at Jerusalem for Palm Suna
day, would waive his wish, in order not to hurry the rest of the party
from Petra. We were all much obliged to him; and he was himself
well satisﬁed afterwards, when a further knowledge of our Sheikh
and his ways, proved that we could not have reached Jerusalem in
the time proposed.

Our further exploration to-day was near home. We examined the
Triumphal Arch and Pharaoh's Palace—the only ediﬁces in Petra, as
I have said. They are not worth many words—being Roman, and in
a bad style—the ornamental work of the palace being in stucco, and
very ﬂorid. At the back, the stucco is carried up to successive stone
projections, which form tiers of cornices, .in which we saw nothing of
purpose or beauty. By the marks on the walls within, the whole in-
terior seems to have been covered with stucco, little of which, how-

