318 sumac Lin.

oneothird to two-thirds of a mile; or as equivalent to a surface of at
least one square mile. This space is nearly doubled by the recess so
when mentioned on the west, and by the broad and level area of Wadee
Sheikh on the east, which issues at right angles to the plain, and is
equally, in view of the front and summit of the present Horeb. The
examination of this afternoon convinced us that here was space enough
to satisfy all the requisitions of the Scriptural narrative, so far as it re-
lates to the assembling of the congregation to receive the Law. Here,
too, one can see the ﬁtness of the injunction, to set bounds around the
mount, that neither man nor beast might approach too near. The en-
campment before the Mount, as has been before suggested, might not
improbably include only the head-quarters of Moses and the elders, and
of a portion of the people; while the remainder, with their ﬂecks, were
scattered among the adjacent valleys.” To us it appeared probable
that here, at least, was the place which the writer or writers of the
Book of Exodus hadin mind, as the scene of the giving of the Law;
and no one on the spot can avoid the conviction that the writer was in-
timately acquainted with the localities of the Peninsula of Sinai.

The descent from our pinnacle was- less difﬁcult than we had ex.
pected—probably from our being exhilarated by what we had seen. In
the little plain of the cypress, coﬂ'ee. was brought to us by our drago-
men, who were better aware .than ourselves of what still la before us.
The guides now led us down by a ravine which descen ed directly
upon the wadee in which the convent stands. This long pass was one
continuous series of shattered rocks, so fatiguing to traverse that the
strongest of us took shorter and more timorous steps, and more frequent
rests, till the trembling of our limbs made us glad to be at last within
sight of home. The heat among the rock-shelves of the wadee was
excessive; and'now having accomplished all our objects in this singu-
lar and interesting region, we were not sorry to see encamped behind
the convent some of the camels and drivers with whom we were to
proceed to-morrow towards the head of the Gulf of Akaba.

 

CHAPTER V.

MOSES AT MOUNT SINAI.

Tnmgreat interest of the Sinai region lies in its unaltered and un-
alterable character. There it is, feature by feature the same as when
those events occurredwhich make it holy ground. In every other kind
of scenery, there is more or less change, from one thousand years to
another. The country is differently cleared, or cultivated, or peepled:
eventbe everlasting Nile changes its course. But here, where there
is neither clearing, nor cultivation, nor settled people, where it seems
as if volcanic action only could make new features in the scene, and
where volcanic action does not seem probable, there is no impediment
to one’s seeing Sinai as it was when Moses there halted his people.

