names not rrs smons. 498

ﬂowers and clusters of diamonds, inserted in a close-ﬁtting silk net.
The painting of the eyes is somewhat deforming, as unnatural arts
always are: but it is less hideous than the painting of the eyebrows.
'By association of ideas, a junction of the eyebrows gives to us an itndb
pression of intense thought: and nothing can be more disagreeably
absurd than to see this artiﬁcial thoughtful frown on the excessively
silly and inane face of an Eastern woman. They pull out the hair of
their eyebrows, and paint a dark stripe straight across.—Their health
is bad, of course, as they have no exercise but shufﬂing over their mar-
ble pavements in splendid pattens. Their English physician has car-
ried one important point in inducing some families to go annually for
change to distant villages, where before they never went but on occa-
sionsof serious illness. *

In one house that we visited, the eldest daughter, always jovial, and
now not the less so for having been recently divorced, sat down beside
me, and laughed with the delight of having visitors. She examined
my clothes, stroking me and nodding; but ﬁxed at last upon my gloves.
After trying long and in vain to put them upon her enormous hands,
she took my hands, .to stroke them and laugh at the nails. She wanted
me to admire there, which were all dyed black; but they were too much
as if they had all been pinched in the door. How all sympathy and
sorrow about this lady’s divorce evaporated during such intercourse, I
need not say.—-We saw several times the celebrated Esther, the Jew-
ess, and her lover ;-the pair who are ever anxiously supposing that
our House of Lords is occupied in granting the lady a divorce from her
insane husband. Esther’s case is really a hard one. ‘While she sees
divorces going on all round her, whenever desired, she cannot be set
free from her insane husband, because she happens to be a British sub-
ject. Some kind-hearted but injudicions English travelers, who were
really interested in Esther’s case, led her to eatpect a decree of divorce
from England; and she and her lover, who would not interest us on
any other account whatever, are-constantly in expectation of being able
to marry. Esther has been written of as the beautiful Jewess of Da-
mascus. Isuppose she would generally be considered handsome; but
I saw several faces which pleased me more.

The British Vice-Consul invited us to dinner; and gave us a specta-
cle which we shall long remember. He invited the Jewish ladies i
have mentioned, and some others; and several native Christian ladies,
whose dress and manners are, for the most part, like those of their Mo-
hammedan neighbors, except that they are not shut up in thethareem.
The native wife of the French Consul was also there ; and the gentle-
man and lady of the American Mission; and many besides.—'I‘he Vice-
Consul and the physician '1 have mentioned live together; and they
have one of the best houses in Damascus: and therefore, one of the '
most beautiful, for its size, in the world. At dinner, there were four
guests besides our own party. The table was covered, very elegantly,
with ﬂowers and the dessert; and the dinner was handed round. ”A
band of Turkish musicians was in one corner of the apartment: but
they played so excessively loud that they were presently sent to amuse

