403 sums ml.

home. The goldsmiths’ bazaar was one of the most intensﬁqa—I
from the quality of the jewelry, but from the picturesque ﬁguesd
the workers, bending their turbaned hands over the blow-pipes,iathr's
little dim shaps.—The alleys where galloon weaving and silk-chm
making, and the manufacture of slippers, were carried on, waters;
attractive, from the number of children employed. The little best
weaving and shoemaking, were extremely industrious. They append
to put their “Arab intensity” into their work, young as4 they was.
Sometimes, in curious contrast, a dealer of graver years would be as:
fast asleep in the next shep, his head laid back on a comfortable pill"
of goods, and his whole stock open to the attacks of any one wheels!
to steal.—'I‘he prettiest sight in connection with the bazaars was via
a net was drawn over the front of the shep, to indicate that the oven
was at prayers. Of course, theft would be perfectly easy duringd
an interval: butwe were assured that it never happens: and porch!!!
wait, without any repining, for the re-appearance of the pious trier

man.

I was altogether disappointed in the silk goods of Damascus. Inf
very few articles that I thought pretty, more or less, though the {that
was substantial enough. There was a vulgarity about the patterns-
especially about those which were the most costly,—which ptzt'pltm’d
me till I learned the secret. The famous old Damascus patterns. Ill
inheritance of centuries, and of which every Damascene is proud. 11""
been imitated by our Manchester manufacturers, so as to become g”
familiar to English eyes. The effect of this in Damascus is cumm-
The inhabitants import our cotton goods largely: and when they '9'
their own patterns again, the gentlemen think they look as well as the“
own heavy silks; and they make their wives wear them in ate-d."
greatly to the discontent of the ladies. The saving to the Denim
husbands is very great; as indeed it must be, if we consider the coal.
dressing a dozen women in one house,—wives and handmaidsr-‘l'
such costly articles as the heavy silks of Damascus.-—For_rny own P!“
I would rather wear Manchester cottons. The dresses of Damascus 9
have no variety, and the-scarves are stiff and cumbrous.—-Perfumﬁl"
sold, very largely. Some of our party bought attar-of-roses and a dear
tion of sandal-wood, which, however, presently lost its scent.—
gentlemen looked at daggers and scimitars: but the blades of Dams“
are not what they were; and I believe there was nothing very uoticﬂb
about these arms.

By the kindness of a resident who, as a physician, has freer ass!“
to families than any other gentleman could obtain. we saw the inter“?
of several handsome houses. They were truly beautiful,—with the!
marble courts, fountains, thickets of orange plants and other shrubs
their lofty, cool, luxurious apartments.—In the house of a w I
Christian gentleman, we saw several ladies, some Jewesses being 0” '
visit at the same time. The dress of these Jewesses was superb.
addition to the colored muslins, gold embroidery and handsOme shi'l'
round the waist, which all the ladies had, these Jewesses wore 8 P'°'
fusion of diamonds. Their heads were entirely covered with III‘

 

:
‘

