rum or natcno. 428

was at that time baptizin , came One, in appearance and lowliuess like
the rest, Ipurposing to be ptized like them. and in fact for some time
afterwar sea dismple of the prophet. The dwellers here would not
know for some months after that the had spoken with one greater than
the anchorite of the Desert; and w en they heard that another had
risen up, whose disciples were baptizing more converts than John, they
would endeavor to remember what di niﬂed personage, with his train,
had here inquired the we , and let f words of promise of his comin
power and kingdom: an they would differ about which was he; ans
some would go forth to see him, and recognize him: and when they
saw him, some would recall that countenance and voice; and most
would go back when they found it was only a carpenter of Nazareth,
askin how one so lowly, and so little prepared for war and'conquest,
should drive out the Romans, and restore the kingdom to Israel :—-how
it was possible for a teacher of the non-resistant doctrines of the Essence,
and for a poor inhabitant of the rural province of Galilee, to set up a
throne on Zion; and then ensued those domestic dissensions;—that pa-
rental pre'udice conﬂictin with youthful enthusiasm, which made the
parent deliver over the c ild to destruction, and the child forsake the
parent, and exhibited the truth that this Messenger of Peace had at
ﬁrst brought not peace but a sword. Here, in this rich district, peo-
pled with indolent and luxurious inhabitants, had this stir begun and
spread, which was never to cease till the plain of Jordan had become
the waste that we saw it now. By degrees, the landmarks were de-
stroyed and forgotten; the woods decayed, and' no more were planted.
The rains descended and the ﬂoods came, and swept away the dwell-
ings; and none built them up again. The swallow made a nest for
herself on the household altars, and the wild beasts came up at the
swelling of Jordan: the sands swept over the ﬁeld, and the salt gales
from the southern lake encrusted the herbage, and poisoned the soil:
and robbers of another race came to live in the caves of the hills, and
made the passage to the Jordan as dreary and perilous as we saw it
this day, while that Nazarene artisan came to be worshiped as agod
over a wide continent, and in far islands of the sea. It was a vast
chapter of human history which unrolled itself before us here beside
the one remaining tower which is pointed out as marking the site of
the ancient Jericho. '

And now we were eager for the river. though, as I said before, we
had been warned that we could not see it till it should appear ﬂowing
at our very feet. We were aware of our approach, by the three ter-
races we ad to cross, which are distinctly marked. Each was level,
and then a small slope led down to the next. On a hillock on the ﬁrst
terrace, where the vegetation showed that here might once have been
placed the ﬂourishing home of some inhabitant of the valle , were
perched a few birds among the brushwood; birds of such a size that
one of our party thoughtlessly cried out “ Ostriches i” There are no
ostriches here: but these cranes might easily be mistaken for them.
One by one they rose, ﬂapping their great wings, and stretching out
their long legs behind them, and sailed away towards the Dead Sea.

