460 Imus use.

face, and the head shaven, except the t0p-knot left for the angel of the
resurrection!

The ﬂoor rises towards the-grand altar, to accommodate the grottoes
below. These grottoes formed, the monks say, the lower part of the
house of Joseph and Mary. The upper part, the declare, took ﬂight
to avoid desecration from the Mohammedans, an soared through the
air to Loretto, resting for a time in Illyria by the we . We were
obliged to visit the part which remains, Which we did hy descending
the steps within the church. The nest of little caverns in the subter-
ranean rock are devoutly shown as Mary’s kitchen, sitting-room and
chamber. Thusfar, one may smile at the childish superstition which
makes warm-hearted, ignorant persons gratify their imagination and
affections by consecrating localities such as these. But something fol-
lows which one cannot regard so cheerfully. We were led to the spot
of the Annunciation, and shown the granite pillars which stand where
the angel Gabriel and Mary stood when she received the promise. To
persons well read in history, who are aware of the frequent recurrence
of this mythic story, in connection with the birth of conspicuous men.
there is nothing surprising in meeting with it here; and those whose
reading has not gone be and their Bible, cannot but be struck by the
identity of the history of t e birth of Ishmael. Isaac, Samuel, and espe-
cially Samson, with that of Jesus, as far as the annunciation of each to
the mother by an angel is concerned. But I had seen more. In
ancient Egyptian temples, we had encountered the same story that
awaited us here. In Egypt, it was harmless and interesting to see
sculptured before our eyes, and explained by written legends, the ap-
pearance of Thoth, the heavenly messenger, to Tmanbemva, Queen of
Thothmes IV., to announce to her from the Supreme—from Amun
Generator himself—that she should bear a son.‘ In Egypt, it was
harmless and interesting to trace the incarnations, which, understood as
we understand them now, give us at once the truths made known in
the Mysteries, and the form of allegory in which the priests presented
the concealed doctrine to the people. We do not revolt from the white
star on the forehead of Apis (the spot which marked the entrance of
the divine ray), nor from any other tokens of those incarnations which
abound in the old Eastern mythologies. They convey truths in their
way; and the wa was appropriate to the people and the time. But
when, in a much ater age, the monotheistic Jews put aside the charac-
teristics of their faith, received the infection of allegorizing from their
heathen neighbors, and attached their allegories to the simple history
of their prophets, the process assumes a new character, and is likely to
be used to a most disastrous purpose. Philo allegorized about Jewish
personages and events, and Jewish scholars understood him. Origeﬂ
allegorized so as to do us no harm at this day; as his method was
avowed, and is sufﬁciently understood by Christianscholars. But it
has been argreat misfortune to the average Christian world for many
ages, that the old allegories of Egypt—the old images of miraculous

' Champollion, Lettres sur l’Egypte. Palace ofAmenuphis Memnon at El Uksur-

