148 W m.

whether any force short of an earthquake could have been the destruc-
tive agent here.

One curious architectural device of the Egyptians, which we found
almost everywhere by looking for it, is here apparent at a glance, when
one stands on the t circuit wall which incloses the whole group of
ediﬁces ;—their p u of regularly diminishing the size of the inner
chambers, so as to give from the entrance, an appearance of a longer
perspective than exists. They evidently like an ascending ground,
the ascent of which was disguised as much as possible by the use of
extremely shallow steps. The roof was made to descend in a greater
degree, the descent being concealed inside by the large cornices and
deep architraves they employed. The sides were made to draw in;
and thus the Holy Place was always small; while to those who looked
towards it from the outer chambers, (and it was entered by the priests
alone.) it appeared not small, but distant. I had observed this in some of
the Nubian temples, when looking at them sideways from a distance;
but here it was particularly evident; the roof descending in deep
steps from the portion to the pronaos; from the naos to the corridors;
and from the corridors to the adyta; which last were level with the
sand.

When I was in the portico, looking up at the architraves, I saw into
another ancient secret, which I should have been sorry to have over-
looked. Some of the paintings were half-ﬁnished; and their ground
was still covered with the intersecting red lines by which the artists se-
cured their proportions. Tbese guiding lines were meantto have been
eﬂ'aced as soon as the outlines were completed ; yet here they are at
the end of, at least, two thousand years! No hand, however light, has
touched them, through all the intervening generations of men :—no
rains have washed them out, during all the changing seasons that have

over them :—no damp has moulded them: no curiosity has
meddled with them. It is as if the artist had lain down for his siesta,
with his tools beside his hand, and would be up presently to resume
his work; yet that artist has been a mummy, lying somewhere in the
heart of the neighboring hills, ever since the time when our island
was bristling with forests, and its inhabitants were dressed in skins,
and dyed their bodies blue with woad, to look terrible in battle. In
another part of this temple, the stone is diced in small squares to re-
ceive the hieroglyphic ﬁgures.

The other temple was built on an artiﬁcial platform, and must have
looked nobly from the river. as indeed its remains still do by moonlight.
I found among the strewn fragments one capital, and only one, bearing
the head of Atbor,—the last relic perhaps of a colonnade which here
crowned the precipitous bank. My journal records that we were much
impressed by these ruins,-—the size of the parts, and the extraordinary
character of their wreck. The wading among blocks of sculptured
stone, having the eye caught incessantly by some exquisite device or
gay bit of painting, is a strange experience. So far from becoming
tired of temple-haunting, we found the eagerness grow from day to

ay.

