200 1:qu urn.

CHAPTER XX.
INUNDATION or THE NILEPFAMINE IN EGYPT.

W: hear so much of the regularity of the overﬂow of the Nile, that
we are apt to forget that it may fail, or to contemplate the consequences
in such a case. It is true, we read of the seven years of famine in
Joseph’s time; but we think of that as a kind of miracle, and do not
ask whether such a misfortune ever happened again, when a less
sagacious and politic minister than Joseph was at the head of affairs.
There is some information extant about this; and it may be of sufﬁcient
interest to justify us in dwelling upon it a little.

It is amusing to observe how, according to Herodotus, the Egyptians
and Greeks pitied each other for their respective ways of having their
lands watered. The priests told Herodotus of a time when a rise of
eight cubits suﬂiced to water the land below Memphis; whereas “now,”
he says,’ “ if the river does not rise sixteen cubits,’r or at least ﬁfteen,
it does not cover the ﬁelds. If the land continues to rise in the same pro-
portion,”—(a proportion which he calculated on mistaken dates, as the
event has shown,) “and to receive the same augmentations as hitherto,
the Nile no longer covering it with its waters, it seems to me that the
Egyptians who dwell below Lake Moeris, and in other districts, and
especially in what is called the Delta, must continually experience at
last the same fate as that with which they suppose the Greeks to be
threatened, sooner or later; for, having learned that the whole of Greece
is watered by rains, and not by the inundation of the rivers,as in their
country, they say that if the Greeks should ever be disappointed of
their hopes, they would run the risk of perishing miserably by famine.
By this they mean to convey that if, instead of raining in Greece, there
should come a drought, they would die of hunger, because they have
no other resource than the waters of the sky.-—This reﬂection of the
Egyptians upon the Greeks is just; but now let us see to what extremity
they themselves may be reduced. If it should happen, as I said be-
fore, that the region below Memphis, which is that which receives ac-
cumulations, should go on rising as it has done hitherto, must it not
certainly happen that the Egyptians who inhabit it must experience
the horrors of famine, since it does not rain in their countr , and the
river can no longer overspread their ﬁelds! But there is no y now,
in the rest of Egypt, or even in the whole world, who obtains a harvest

' Herod. II. 13.

1' The priests were possibly speaking of a different measure from the cubit of the
time of Herodotus. The cubit originally signiﬁed the length from the bend of the
elbow to the end of the middle ﬁnger. It is believed that among the Hebrews there
were two cubit-measures;—one of 18 inches, and the other of 21 inches. Sir G.
Wilkinson gives the cubit at the Nilometer at Elephantine as measuring 1? ﬁ.——t'. c.
19! inches. There were 28 digits in a cubit.

