464 Issues am.

the Syro-Phenician woman, and the family at Bethany, and the penitw
woman, and the beloved disciple, all administer intense satisfactionu
him? Is it not true that the still under-current of human affairs and
human character is the purest and sweetest; and that it is the turbulent
and corrupt, part of human life which comes to the surface, and engage
the eyes and earsof men? And did not Jesus know what was inns!
and in his life 1 Was not all that was pure and sweet and noble known
and felt to its very depths by him,in proportionas he was himself tru-
scendantly pure and sweet and noble? Is there no joy in aspiration!
Was his soul sad when he said “ the world hath not known thee; but
I have known thee ?” Are there no special satisfactions to the sound
God,——to the apostle,—-to the redeemer of men! Is there no substantill
happiness in steadfast devotedness l—no blissful thrill in self-sacriﬁce“!
-no sense of ﬁlial repose in such a-martyrdom as his I To met!
rather appears thatif we were wise enough to enter into his experience
as we ought, we should see that never before were a few months of hie
so crowded with joys as were those of the Ministry of Jesus. Think
of the crowds who came to him with their several griefs, none of whm
he sent away sorrowing:—think of the multitude of the docile.
hopeful, and faithful with whom he had communion :—think of his re-
fuge in his solitude of spirit, and of his heavenly seasons of contempla-
tion and prayer:-—think of what the mere face of nature must but
been to one who looked upon it with a sense quickened and deepened
like his :—-think, in short, what a heaven he carried within and about
him, and say whether we are not irreverent and undutiful and hard If
we refuse to rejoice with him, as far as in us lies.

I think no one can refuse some such sympathy who follows his foot-
steps in his own Galilee. If the singers of Israel,—psalmists and

rophets,—exalted Lebanon for its majesty,—its summits, its cataracts, .
its black cedars and its snows, they praised Carmel for its MW
richness. These mountains stand throughout the Hebrew poetry.“
the symbols of power and grace.—Lebanon has lost some of its stern
cedar roves; but no changes of time can materially alter its chemo?!-
Carmeﬁ has lost far more. Its fertility is much lessened, and the rich
woods which once clothed the slopes are now thinned, where they b?"
not disappeared. But nothing can impair the beauty of the position
of Carmel, with the clear blue sea washing up to its base,—the shote
and the green plain of Zebulon stretching away on another side. and ‘
. billowy expanse of wooded hills retiring inland, closed in by the lustrous
roof of an Eastern sky.

The wooding of these Galilean hills was a surprise to us to-day. F0!
about two hours after leaving Nazareth, the hills were stony, and 8080’
tily clothed, as where they rise from the plain of Esdraélon: but aflﬂ'
that, for aboutanotber hour, the scenery became so like that of the out-
skirts of an English park, as to give us the same home-feeling that We
had in meeting familiar weeds on our entrance into the Holy Lan -
After crossing a stretch of the plain, which here runs in among the
hills, and passing a round well, and clear, fern-grown spring, near the
poor village which represents the once great city and university of 30P'

 

 

