192 [ASTERN me.

have suffered themselves to slide easily into the ancient habits of their
forefathers :—in consequence, they have admitted images into their
churches, and into the temples appropriated to the exercise of their
worship. They have even pushed matters to an extreme: they have
in many ways improved upon the existing abuses of this custom, and
have carried their folly so far as to pretend to represent the god whom
they adore surrounded by angels. All this was merely a remnant of
the customs of their ancestors which had been preserved among them;
with this diﬂ'erence, however: that their ancestors, far from representing
the deity under any form, had too exalted an idea of him to imagine
that He could be apprehended by the sense, or comprehended by the
understanding. That which has drawn the Christians into these ex-
cesses, and which has emboldened them to adopt such a custom, is
the dogma which they profess of the divinity of a creature.—All this,”
the sober Mohammedan goes on to say, “ we have discussed with care
in the treatise which we have composed against the Christians.”*——No
enlightened person, of any faith, could help sympathizing with Abdallatif
while in sight of the profane daubs which the Christians have left among
the sculptures, and which seem put there to give every advantage to the
old heathens. They have something of the effect of the ritual of the
Greek church, which makes our most religious countrymen feel, in
Asia Minor, that theyhad rather, in case of need, turn Mohammedan
than enter it.

Near Medeenet Haboo is an expanse of sunk soil, with alluvial deposits
round its edges, which Sir G. Wilkinson believes to have contained the
Lake of the Dead, over which the body must be ferried to its tomb.1'

Passing over the other ediﬁces on the western bank, I will mention
only that on the last day of our abode on this side, we visited the very
old temple called Dayr e1 Bahree, or “the Northern Convent;” so
called fromuits having been appropriated by the Christians for a church
and monastery. It is gloriously situated; in the great central perpen-
dicular rock ;—excavated in the mountain itself; and once approached
by an ascending dromos of great length, and between rows of sphinxes,
with pylons and obelisks at intervals, and a succession of terraces at
last. This temple is quite unlike any other; and few are more im-
pressive. The crude brick arches of ancient date which are found in
many places prove that theEgyptians were acquainted with the princi-
ple of the arch ; yet here the vaulted chambers showed roofs composed
of courses of stone, laid on ﬂat, and hollowed into an arch afterwards.
Some bits of walls and curious corners had been recently laid Open to
view,—their paintings as vivid as ever. On one wall from which the
sand had been shoveled away, we found a splendid lotus plant, on
which was a nest of water birds, bending the budded stem which sup-
ported it. A rabbit had attacked the young birds: a dog was attacking
the rabbit, and an ibis the dog. On another part of the plant were a
Lipard and two yellow butterﬂies: and two human hands were plucking

ossoms.

' Abdallatiﬁ Relation de l’ Egypte, Livre I. Ch. IV.
‘I’ Wilkinson’s Modern Egypt and Thebes, II. 187.

