.-

ouao. , 29

Shoobra—the Pasha’s country palace—rose against the sky, on the
eastern shore. Then there were glimmerings of white houses; and
then rows of buildings and lights which told of our approach to Boo-
lik, the port of Cairo. The palace of Ismael Pasha, who was burnt
at Sennaar twenty-nine years ago. rose above the bank; and then there
was a blaze of cressets, which showed where we were toland. A
carriage from the Hotel d’Orient awaited our party; and we were
driven, under an avenue of acacias, a mile or two to Cairo. By the
way, we saw some truly Arabian dwellings by torchlight,‘ which made
us long for the marrow. .

In the morning I found that my windows looked out upon the Ez-
bekeeyeh—the great Square—all trees and shade, this sunny morning;
and over the tree tOps rose the Pyramids, apparently only astone’s
throw off, though in fact more than ten miles distant. A low canal
runs round the Square, just under my windows ; and on its bank was
a striking group—a patriarchal picture ;—an Arab leading down his
ﬂock of goats to water. The sides of this canal were grass-grown; .
and the interibr of the Square, the area of 400,000 feet within the belt
of trees, was green with shrubs, ﬁeld-crOps, and gardens. While I
was.gazing upon this new scene, and amusing myself with the ap-
pearance and gestures of the people whe went by on foot, on asses, or
on camels, Mr. Y. and Mr. E. were gone to Boolik, to see about a
boat which we had heard of as likely to suit us for our voyage up to
the First Cataract. At breakfast they brought us the news that they
had engaged the boat, with its crew. We afterwards mounted don-
keys, and rode off to Boolik to examine this boat, which has the repu-
tation of being the best on the Nile. .

As our thoughts and our time were much engaged with the antici-
pation of our voyage and with preparations for it, so that we did not
now see much of Cairo, or open our minds thoroughly to what we did
see,I shall say nothing here of the great Arabian city. With me it
stands last in interest, as latest in time, of the sights of Egypt: and any
account that I can give of it will be the more truthful for coming in its
right place,—after the cities of the ancient world.

We found on board our dahabieh the old American merchant to
whom it belong9,-—his tawny ﬁnger graced by a magniﬁcent diamond
ring. The Rais,—the captain of the crew, who is responsible for the
safety of the boat,—was in waiting to take directions from us ﬂout
some additional accommodation. We liked this man from ﬁrst to last.
His countenance struck me this morning as being ﬁne, notwithstanding
a slight squint. It had much of the pathetic expression of the Arab
countenance, with strong sense, and, on occasionyabundance of ﬁre.
His caution about injuring the boat, made him sometimes appear indo-
lent when we wanted ‘to push on; and he, seeming to indulge us, would
yet moor within half-an-hour: but he worked well with the crew at
times,—taking an oar, and handling the ropes himself. For many an
hour of our voyage, he sat on the gunwale, singing to the rowers some
mournful song, to which they replied in a chorus yet more mournful.
The manners of this man were as full of courtesy and kindness as we

