342 names m.

of sand between them and us; the palm ' res between the castle and
the sea;—the sea, like a golden lake, an the mountains retiring along
its shores on either hand. With precisely the same natural features,
how much quieter is this scene now than when Solomon’s ship-building
was going on!

Before we went to restr—and it was late before we had the tent to
ourselves,—the money was paid to the wide-awake Shaikh, the wearied
gentlemen had put away their money-bags, with the hope that they
should never again have so much ado about a bargain, and we had no-
tice that we were to be off by ei ht, the next morning. So I made up
my mind to bathe at ﬁve ;—my last sea-bath till we should come upon
the Mediterranean at the end of our Eastern travel.

 

CHAPTER VII.
FROM AKABA T0 PETRA.

WE bathed at ﬁve, and breakfasted early, as we had planned; but
we were far from being off at eight, as the Shaikh had promised.
There was so much disputing among the camel-drivers as to their
shares, and so much unwillingness on the part of some to go among a
strange tribe, for fear of robbery and loss of camels (though the Sheikh
guarantied to them indemnity, and two camels for every one they
might lose), that those hours were consumed in wrangling and noise
which we had hoped would have carried us up the ﬁrst part of Wadee
Arabs before the heat of the day. The Sheikh, all in scarlet, sailed
about, looking very digniﬁed, and pouring out smoke like a chimney,
wherever he moved among the palms. It was ten o’clock before we
mounted; and we were almost hungry again by that time, and as weary
with the hubbub of the last four hours as with a day's journey.

We left the inclosures of Akaba on our left hand, and the palms,
and the exquisite blue sea, which narrowed to aline, and then was lost.
After that, the way was dreary enough ; more so than any region we
had yet passed through :—a sandy valley, at least two miles wide, with
high and sharp-cut mountains for boundaries on either hand. There
was something ﬁne, however, in the inﬁnite desert before us, lost in
haze and distance, and sometimes rising in an immeasurable slope
tufted with little tamarisks and thorny acacias.

It seemed to-day as if our desert freedom was all over. Hitherto,
I had kept by myself as much asI pleased; and every true desert-
traveler needs and chooses, if possible, to ride alone. With the sole
precaution of never losing sight of the whole of the companysl had
pushed forward, or lingered behind, or wandered away on either hand
at my own pleasure. But to—day we found, to the great concern of
many of us, that we were to have this liberty no longer. We were
drilled into order like so many recruits. If two or three of us were
riding half a quarter of a mile on either hand, the Sheikh came or sent

