100 usmn ma.

provision for his long march southwards; and his soldiers, after ex-
hausting the country, and killing their beasts of burden for food, began
to slay one another, casting lots for one victim in ten of their number.‘
The army of ﬁfty thousand men, whom -he had raised in the valley, in
order to conquer the Deserg—that is, to take the Cases, and burn the
temple of the Oracle,-—'were never heard of more. Whether they
perished by thirst, or were overtaken by the sand, was never known.
80, all that the conqueror could do was to lay waste Thebes, where it
appears there was now no one to stay his hand. He carried oﬂ’ its
treasures of gold, silver and ivory, broke open and robbed the Tombs of
the Kingsﬂhrew down what he could of the temple buildings, and
hewed in pieces such of the colossal statues as were not too strong
for the brute force of his army. It was then, if Pausanias says true,
that the vocal statue, the eastern-most of the pair, was shattered and
overthrown from the waist: after which, however, it still gave out its
gentle music to the morning sun. 0n the return of Cambyses to
Memphis,‘l he found the people rejoicing in the investiture of a new
bull Apia, which had been found qualiﬁed to succeed the one which
had died. He was angry at any rejoicin while he was bafﬂed and
unfortunate; asked how it was that they 8 owed no joy whenshe was
there before, and so much now when he had lost the chief part of his
army; put to death the magistrates who informed him of the occasion
of the festival; with his own hand stabbed the bull. and ordered the
priests to be scourged.:|: Here again he broke open the tombs, and
desecrated the temples. Meantime, the valley swarmed with strangers,
who came in embassy from every part of the wide Persian dominion,
to offer congratulation and magniﬁcent presents, on the conquest of
Egypt—Yet this new province never became an easy possession.
One revolt followed another; and the valley was a scene of almost
continual conﬂict during the two hundred years of its nominal subserv-
ience to Persia. Its conquest by Cambyses took place in 52-5 13.0.

It was only during an occasional revolt that any one from Athens
could set foot in Egypt: for the great war between the Greeks and
Persians was now going on. Auaxagoras was born 500 s. c., and he
was therefore ten years old at the time of the battle of Marathon; and
nineteen when that of Salamis was fought. But when he was forty
years of age, Egypt became accessible for four years, by means of a
revolt. During this time, though the Persians were never dislodged
from Memphis, both Lower and Upper Egypt appeared to have become
independent; and many Greeks, bent on the advancement of learning,
and Anaxagoras among them, hastened to the Egyptian schools. Anasta-
goras’s work on the Nile has perished with his other writings: and
there is no saying how much of his philosoPhy he derived from the
teachings of the Egyptian priests: but there is a striking accordance
between the opinions which he is variously reported to have held, and
for which he is believed to have suffered banishment, and those which
constituted part of the philosopy of Egypt. Wherever we turn, in

- Herod. m 25. ’r Ibid. 27. z; m 29.

