mws’ rues or awammo. 409

stones, is believed to be a part, and the only part remaining, of Solo-
mon's temple wall: and here the Jews come every Friday, to their
Place of Wailing, as it- is called, to mourn over the fall of their Beauti-
ful House, and pray for its restoration. What a contrast did these
humbled people present to the proud Mohammedans within! The
women were sitting in. the dusk—some wailing aloud, some repeating
prayers with moving lips, and others reading them from books on their
knees. A few children were at play on the ground, and some aged
men sat silent, their heads drooped on their breasts. Several younger
men were leaning against the wall, pressing their foreheads against the
stones, and resting their books on their clasped hands in the crevices.
With some, this wailing is no form: for I saw tears on their cheeks.
I longed to know if any had hope in their hearts that they, or their
children within a few generations, should pass that wall, and became
the echoes of that ancient cry, “ Lift up your heads, 0 ye gates, that
the King of Glory may come in l” If they have any such hope, it
may give some sweetness to this rite of humiliation. We had no such
hope for them; and it was with unspeakable sadness that I, for one,
turned away from the thought of the pride and tyranny within that
enclosure, and the desolation without, carrying with me a deep-felt
lesson on the strength of human faith, and the weakness of the tie of
human brotherhood. . .

Whether the strength be equal under all faiths or not, it appears that
the weakness is. See here what is dune in the name of religion! This
Jerusalem is the most sacred place in the world, except Mekkeh, to the
Mohammedan: and to the Christian and the Jew, it is the most sacred
place in the world. -What are they doing in this sanctuary of their
common Father, as they all declare it to be? Here are the Moham-
medans eager to kill any Jewtor Christian who may enter the Mosque
of Omar. There are the Greek and Latin Christians hating each
other, and ready to kill any Jew or Mohammedan who may enter the
Church of the Holy Sepulchre. And here are the Jews, pleading
against their enemies, in the vengeful language of their ancient prophets..
0n them, we are not disposed to bear hardly: and we do not wonder
if, in the imagination of the pride which is glorying in its usurpation
behind that wall, and when the breeze brings the light laughter of the
children who are sporting within, the mourners cry from their Place
of Wailing, “ Happy shall he be who rewardeth thee as thou hast
served us! Happy shall he be who taketh thy little ones, and dasheth
them against the stones l” But still, looking upon religion as she now
appears in this, her throne and sanctuary, we ﬁnd but a hideous idol
which has usurped the oracles, instructing men to be proud before God,
and to hate one another.

We were shown, near this spot, the remains of the bridge which
once joined the two bills, Zion and Moriah. The piers of a bridge are
distinct enough. The heaps of rubbish and ruined wall here made this
place as desolate as anything we saw in Egypt.

One object with us to-day was to sit down, and read as much of the
gospel history as relates 'to the temple and its vicinity, within view of

