288 “max urn.

he went, across the peninsula, and to the opposite coast of the Eastern
arm of the Red Sea, taking up his rest with the Midianites, who appear
to have been more civilized than most of the tribes inhabiting the
desert. It is supposed that they were engaged in commerce,—their
position being favorable to it. Josephus says that the men were not
shepherds, but left the care of their ﬂocks to women.-—The sheikh (or
priest, for the word signiﬁes both) whose daughter Moses married, ave

im the charge of his ﬂocks, it appears.—In the solitudes to whic he
now retired with his family, shifting his tent from valley to valley,
according to the needs of his ﬂock, and sitting down beside the secluded
springs among the rocky mountains, his mind wrought vigorOusly
among the materials stored up by his careful education. There is no
place like the Desert for fruitful meditation. There, among the immu-
table forms of nature, lives the Past, for those who know how to look
for it. It will not rise to view among the changing scenes of social
life, nor speak where the voices of men are heard. But in the austere
silence of the Desert it presses its tale upon the tranquilized soul, and
will, to one who knows, as Moses did then, and Mohammed after him,
how to invoke, pr0phesy of the Future ;—of its unborn child which is to
redeem the human race from its sins and its burden of woes. Here,
as Moses sat under the shrubby .palm in its moist nook, or lay under
the shadow of the rock, did the past come. at the call of his instructed
memory, and tell him how these mighty Egyptians had been slaves as
his Hebrew brethren now‘were, and how they had cast off the yoke of
their bondage, and risen into a powerful nationality by driving out the
foe who had oppressed them for a thousand years, and by restoring to
their honors the Supreme and his attributes, through whose aid they
believed all great deeds to be achieved: and here, to his clear under-
standing, did the future promise the redemption of his race, and disclose
the means by which it should be wrought. Here he learned to see,—
not at once as in vision, but in the dawning of many days, and from the
suggestions of many thoughtful years,—how the redemption of the
Hebrew race should be effected, how far the precedents of former times
should be followed, and where they should be departed from ;—what
there was new and peculiar in the circumstances of his pe0ple, and how
these circumstances should be dealt with. He saw that the Hebrews
could not rise in revolt against their oppressors, as the Egyptians had
done against their Shepherd conquerors; for the Hebrews had not the
rights of native possession; and they were so debased by their servi-
tude as to be incapable of warfare. He saw that they must be ﬁrst
removed from the inﬂuences which had made them what they were,
and then elevated into a capability for independent social life.

He saw that they must be ﬁrst removed, and then educated, before
they could be established. In following out this course of speculation,
he was led to perceive a mighty truth, which appears to have been
known tono man before him ;—a truth so holy and so vast that even
yet mankind seem scarcely able fully to apprehend it ;——the truth that
all Ideas are the common heritage of all men, and that none are too
precious to be communicated to every human mind. It was his clear

