13111030. 421

'cended a steep mound near our encampment, and saw a view as differ-
ent from that of the preceding day as a change of lights could make it.
The sun had not risen; but there was a hint of its approach in a gush
of pale light behind the Moab mountains. The strip of wood-land in
the middle of the plain looked black in contrast with the brightening
yellow precipices of Quarantania on the west. Southwards, the Dead
Sea stretched into the land, gray and clear. Below me, our tents and
horses, and the moving ﬁgures of the Arabs enlivened the shadowy
banks of the stream. ‘

We were off soon after six, and were to reach the Jordan in two
hours and a half. Our way lay through the same sort of' forest land
as we had encamped in. It was very wild ; and almost the only tokens
of habitation that we met with were about -Rihhah,—supposed to be
the site of the ancient Jericho. This is now as miserable a village as
any in Palestine; and its inhabitants are as low in character as in wealth.
No stranger thinks of going near it who is not well armed and guarded.
What a change from the" former days, when this was the garden of the
known world,—-this valley extending through the heart of Palestine!
Here, where we now saw only a few ﬁg trees and a mere sprinkling of
young crops,—-here where the luxuriance of the vegetation shows that
the soil and climate are not to blame for the desolation,——here was once
the crowded city which submitted to‘ Joshua: here were the ﬁelds
which fed whole armies of Syrians and Egyptians as they passed to
and fro. And here, in a later day,as peOple sat abroad in the cool of the
evening, every man under his ownvine or his own ﬁg tree, did news
circulate from one neighborly group to another which soon ﬁlled the
whole valley. It had been for some time known that a young man,—
very young to assume to be a prophet,—had been living in the Desert,
a few miles to the south. He was probably a disciple of the Essenes,
reared in their large community near the Dead Sea, and not very far
from hence. The anchorites of that sect and district did not usually
betake themselves to the hard life of the wilderness till their frames
were strong to bear hunger.'heat and cold. But this new preacher had
hardly a beard upon his chin; and his young face made him so little
like'the popular conception of a Hebrew prophet, that his claims were
much discussed, and many went out to endeavor to meet him; and
under the trees here, at eventide, they reported what they had seen
and heard. What they had heard most about was Repentance; a
theme so old that men had become careless of it, and now needed a
new awakening. Every Hebrew child knew, from his infancy up-
wards, that the Messiah would not come till the nation had repented of
its prevalent vices, and of every inﬁdelity to Jehovah: and" yet, though
there was much expectation of the Messiah appearing before long, these
words about repentance passed over the popular ear, without rousing
the «nation’s soul; and it needed the appearance of one“ crying “in the
Desert to make them apprehend that the axe must be laid to the root
of every wickedness among them. The doctrine preached was that of
the Essenes;—-that a man who had two coats and food enough should
give to him that had none: that the tax-gatherers should be moderate,

