448 names nu.

clear and interesting than this. It is impossible not to see his very
gestures when he spoke of “this mountain,”-—-the Gerizim which rose
above him,—and when he bade his hearers lift up their eyes, and look
on the ﬁelds,——already “ white unto the harvest ;”-—the tilled lands of
J acob’s plain which stretched before him. The simplicity of the contro-
versy, in the woman’s statement of it, and appeal to the authority of for:-
fathers; and the Teacher’s assertion of the superiority of J c wish worship,
—“ ye worship ye know not what; we know what we worshipt"—
the naturalness of this is so exquisite as to give on the spot the impres-
sion of modernness; and to make one feel more like an actual spectator
of the incident than I had ever yet felt, in any of the sacred localities.—
No part of the narrative is, to my mind, more striking than the oils
of hospitality,—the invitation to Jesus to stay in the city. The sorest
point of the controversy being this temple on Gerizim,—the Jen
abhorring it, and the Samaritans feeling the hardship of their forefathen
having been excluded from the Jerusalem Temple,—how the new!
must have run through Sychar that a teacher had come from Jeru-
salem itself, who said that men might worship any and everywhere!
Here was an opening for peace making, and for something highel
still; for exalting and spiritualizing the religious conceptions of earnest
and anxious inquirers. Here were “ friendly dealings,” indeed, between
Jews and Samaritans; and in the higher party, that loving care which
made him ever vigilant over the perplexed and wandering, to bring
them home, that there might be “ one fold and one Shepherd.”

Our ride up the valley, as far as the town, was delightful. The
fountains, and ﬁelds and orchards make a perfect garden of the place;
and the people were standing or sitting under the shade of thetrees.
The sepulchres in the rock reminded us of old days; and so did the
mountains, to the right hand and the left. The difference in the aspet!l
of Ebal and Gerizim is less marked than we had been led by books to
suppose; and it was some time before I felt sure that Gerizim was.“
the whole, more fertile than Ebal.—Joshua could not have chosen 1
nobler spot for the solemn ceremony of instructing the people in the
threatening and promises of the Law.‘ He placed six of the tribes 8'
the foot of the one mountain, and six at the foot of the other; and
caused to be proclaimed to the people those noble and awful blessing‘
and curses which were long afterwards recorded at length in the
of DeuteronomyJ‘

It was all very pleasant riding up the valley; but now we had ‘0
enter the town. and even to pass along its whole length. I have melf'
tioned that in Egypt I found this process very disagreeable. Here. ll
was worse than in any place, before or after. To make part of an
equestrian troop, (looking only too like Batty’s tr00p at home;) ‘0
pace as slowly as possible, one by one, through the ill-paved, nart't"r
bazaars, where one’s horse starts or shies at a blacksmith’s ﬁre 0”
ﬂuttering curtain ;—and to feel conscious all the while of a dress which
is thought odious, and which was always dusty at the close of a day’I

" Joshua VIII. 33. ‘I‘ Deuteronomy XXVII, XXVIII.

 

