noses AT IOUNT sum. 329

no doubt skilled artisans. So he treated them as they compelled him
to do. He offered them a new set of commandments, eight out of ten
of which were about feasts and offerings, and sacriﬁces and holy days.
He ﬁxed upon the days of Egyptian feasts, knowing that the people
would at all events observe the days of New Moon, First-fruits, &c.,
and securing this observance for Jehovah by special ordinance. He
set them to work upon a tabernacle,—a movable temple for the Desert,
as nearly as possible resembling an Egyptian temple. He made them
an ark,—exactly like what the traveler in Egypt sees sculptured in the
processions of the priests, on the walls of palaces and temples ﬁnished
before Abraham was berm—He permitted to them an oracle, the Urim
and Thummim, derived immediately from an Egyptain model. And
most mournful to him of all, he had to in them a priesthood, like that
which they had been accustomed to ook up to as sacred. He had
hoped to make of them a high-caste nation, and had delivered to them
the announcement “And ye shall be unto me a kingdom of priests, a
holy nation?" But they could not yet take that rank: they were not
adequate to that privilege; they preferred deputing their honors to a
class, and withdrawing themSelves behind this class from communion
with Jehovah, and from the light of his countenance.-—-It had become
impossible for them to take up the patriarchal faith where their fathers
had lost it: and the Egyptian element which could not yet be dislodged,
required large accommodation. It is very interesting to read the account
which their. own pious descendant, Maimonides, givesl' of this crisis in
the life of his race. ~ -

“ As at that time the universal practice, and the mode of worship in
which all were educated was, that various kinds of animals should be
offered in the temples in which their idols. were placed, and before
whom their worshipers were to prostrate themselves and to burn in-
cense; and as there were also certain persons set apart for the service
of these temples, therefore the Divine wisdom and Providence of God,
which so eminently shines forth in all his creatures, did not ordain the
abandonment or abolition of all such worship. For it is the well-known
disposition of the human heart to cleave to that to which it has been
habituated; even in things to which it is not naturally inclined. To
have decreed the entire abolition of all such worship would, therefore,
have been the same as if a prophet should come and say, ‘It is the
command of God, that in the day of trouble ye shall not pray, nor fast,
' nor publicly seek him; but your worship shall be purely mental, and
shall consist in meditation, not in action.’ On these accounts, the Cre-
ator retained those modes of worship, but transferred the veneration from
created things and shadows to his own NAME. and commanded us to
direct our religious services to himself." The learned disciple of
Moses then goes on to give instances. To the traveler in Egypt, the
most cursory glance at the Jewish law will show the identity of the
religious customs and manners of the two peoples; ‘and the deepest

' Exodus XIX. 6.
1’ Cited by Kitto in History of Palestine, p. 226.

