itwashanllymoreminutss. Awoman in the village near ourbnat
diedatoneo’clock; and before tire, we met the funeral procession.
The howl here answers perhaps to the throwing dust on the head.
that we see in the sculptures. Both appear painfully barbarous, as
all strong outward expressions of grief most ever bra—We learned
thauwoodbeingsnregtherewasnoeoﬁn; but thattbewomanwas
buried in new clothes; and that stones would he laid over the grave,
so as to secure it perfectly.

On the 23d, we went to Medeenet Haboo, including the great pa-
lace temple of Ramases 111., and some older buildings, which I will
deny myself the pleasure of dwelling on. I must speak presently of
Kamac, which ts still grander; and I cannot hope that my readers can
enter much into the feelings with which Egyptian travelers regard those
vast monuments. I ﬁnd tn my journal this remark, which here occurs:

“it is diﬂieult to assign the grounds of the knowledge one gainstn in
these places of the people who lived in them: but it really amounts to
much.” I must remember that it is diﬂicult to assign the grounds of
knowledge, and to convey the impressions received of the living and

moving existence of these people, and not carry my readers through
be many of those scenes which can be viviﬁed only by the inhabiting
spirit of the spot. Iwill mention only two or three peculiarities of
this pile of ediﬁces.

0n the wall of the Pavilion of Ramases, we see him among his
attendant ladies. He is seated; they are standing. Some are offering
ﬂowers; others waving fans; and one is his partner at that game re-
sembling droughts which ts painted on older walls than these ;—-in the
eaves at Bones Hasan. There ts a board with pieces resembling pins
or pegs; and the lady’s hand ts on one which she ts about to move.

. In another place, we have the coronation; avery grand aﬂ‘air. The
king is on his canopiod throne or shrine, which is borne by twelve
princes, his sons. A great procession follows, of princes, priests, sol-
diers, and various oﬁcial personages. A scribe is reading from a
scroll; the High-priest burns incense; and the band makes music. —
Further on, the king presents offerings to his god;--and the queen
looks on from one side. Some of the priestly order bear the statues
of the king’s ancestors, and a crowd of standards. The hieroglyphic
legends tell us that the king has put on the crown of the Upper and
Lower countries: and birds are set free,—carrier-pigeons,—to convey
the news to the gods of the north, south, east and west. This last
was a pretty discovery of Champollion’s. Then comes a long invo-
cation, which is written on the wall, above the ﬁgure of the reading
priest. The king has cut six ears of corn with a sickle; and these are
oﬂ'ered to the god by a priesL—They had grand coronations in those
days, it is clear.

The war-pictures are very spirited, and, in some respects, very
barbarous. There are heaps of severed hands, which the scribes are
numbering and noting , each heap being marked 3000. On the outer
walls are heaps of tongues, also numbered. We are told that the rows
of captives contain one thousand tn each line.-—Wo have, on the outer

