430 nmas Lin.

CHAPTER V.

JERUSALEM—CHURCH OF THE HOLY SEPULCHRE.—VALLEY OF
ORION—POOL AND FOUNTAIN OF SILOAM.—TOMBS OF THE PRO-
PHETS.—MOUNT OF OLIVES.—GARDEN OF GETHSEMANE—TOMBS
OF THEHKINGS.—GOVERNOR'S HOUSE.

I run avoided going to the church of the Holy Sepulchre in Easter
week, as I' said before; but it was necessary to see it before leaving
Jerusalem. I was relieved to ﬁnd how easy it is to look at it as a mere
sight; and but for what I witnessed within the walls, I should not have
supposed that an educated erson of any Christian denomination could
have found his religious eelings involved in such a spectacle. To
think of Christ and Christianity in the midst of this church is like hav-
ing a reverie of sunrise from a mountain-top when one is looking at a
puppet-show. One is called away from contemplating that light that
lightens the Gentiles and is the glory of Israel, to look at such fabulous
shows as it is a sin to put before the peasant and the infant. Yet here
are grown men, conducting the display, apparently in earnest; and
some who ought to know better giving that devout heed to what they
say which is in truth the deepest irreverence. What a puppet-show is
this place compared with the temples where I had seen the sculptured
Osiris, armed with the symbols or Justice and Judgment, executing his
function upon the dead! How noble are the traditions of Osiris, how
calm and pure the records of his life and doctrine, compared with the
dreadful thin which are here said of a greater than Osiris—said on a
spot within view of the Temple courts where he taught his simple doc-
tune, and the Mountain where he passed his holy hours! The only
thin to be done in such places as this church is to put aside entirely
the hristianity with which one is familiar, and look at what is before
one’s eyes as one would look upon the ceremonies of the Joss-house in
China, or the exhibition of Medicine-Mystery at the Falls of the Missis-
sippi. The pain of it is in all this going on in such a locality, and in
the very name of the locality. ‘

The greater part of this church is as like as need be to a heathen
temple, but without its grace. In grace, though not in rgeousness
and glitter, the shrines of Astarte in the time of Jezebe must have
surpassed this idol-temple, profanely called by the name of Christ.
From seeing the lamps, and marbles, and shining metals, and altars,
and the chapels of the Latins, Greeks and Armenians, we were led to
the nucleus of the building and its interests, the pretended sepulchre.
Here, under one roof, we were shown the garden-tomb, with the stone
on which the announcing angel stood; the place of the cross,--Mount
Calvary being a stair-case of twenty-two steps,—and about a dozen
sacred places, curiously disposed in an exact circle, afew feet distant

