umn vamv or m JORDAN. 477

well under the gleamy lights of a changing day. We could fancy we
saw almost to Damascus, over the intervening mountain ranges. But
we soon descended so far as rapidly to narrow the view; and pre-
sently we found ourselves in a gorge, leading to a rich little plain, or
recess among the hills, where the ﬁelds were waving with corn, and
much cattle was collected about a spring in the rock, with, apparently,
scarcely any one near to take care of either. We found that this cul-
tivation was the work of the industrious Szaﬂ'ad people, who, with a
much better soil and fuller return, seem to practice a tillage as laborious
as that of the maple of the Alps. ~

Passing over low hills to the left, we descended upon the plain of
the Upper Jordan, where the tracks were so well marked that I felt
myself independent of our guides, and could ride on as I pleased.
There was a little dull lake lying in the plain, to the north, with ﬂat,
swampy shores and gray waters, which would not have interested us
but for its ancient reputation. This was Lake Houle,—-“ the Waters
of Merom," of Scripture,—-where Joshua conquered the kings of
Canaan who had united their forces there. A space of ﬁve miles in-
tervenes between this lake and the hills at whose base we were riding.
No two travelers agree about its size; the reason of which is that it is
always changing,—being a mere marsh in the hot season, and a brim-
ming lake after the reins of winter. We saw it in its half and half
state; and without the enlivenment of the water fowl which scream
and plash away among its sedges, in their own season.

The character of the scenery had now entirely changed, and become
something quite new to us. The fatness of the valley reminded us,
through this and the succeeding day, of all the scripture imagery relat-
ing to fertility which we had not seen exempliﬁed in the higher and
drier western regions. Even here, we were on high ground compared
with that part of the Jordan valley which we had struck at Jericho:
for the waters of Lake Houle rattle down a long descent for eight of
the ten miles which lie between it and the Sea of Tiberias; and then
again ﬂow down a descent all the way to the Dead Sea: but even here,
at the upper end of the Jordan valley, there were moisture and marsh
and aquatic produce on every hand. 0n the richest of the pastures
were feeding the ﬂocks of the Bedoueens, while the black tents of the
herdsmen speckled the uplands. The acacia and the plane began to
draw together in clumps, and spread a broader shade. The cranes
waded in taller grass, and winged their ﬂight in larger ﬂocks. Fat
buﬂ'alo wallowed in the pools: and innumerable little tortoises perked
up their impudent heads from every streamlet and swamp. Men and
boys stood almost hidden in the canebrakes, cutting reeds: ants swarmed
in the tracks, and shining lizards darted about among the stones at the
skirts of the hills. Here and there were long reaches of tilled land,
where the people were busy among their barley crops: and the smokes
of two or three hamlets arose from promontories that jutted out into
the streams which were making their way to the Jordan.

While we were in the full enjoyment of all this, we were delighted
to learn that we were to stop at one of the most tempting spots we had

