xonns or mu or m xereruus. 251

ing, and feeding at the stalls. The Arabs are fond of sucking the
sugar-cane, which indeed I think very-pleasant myself. We never
rode through Cairo without meeting peOple thus enjoying themselves;
and during our voyage, the avidity of the crew, when they could con-
trive to land in a cane patch, was remarkable. Watchmen would
come rushing down, to defend the’ canes: and we were made seriously
“uneasy sometimes by seeing what bundles our men carried away under
their arms. If we remonstrated, we were told that they had paid for
them. Perhaps they might; but I could never, by the sharpest watch-
ing, see the payment made: and :1 did see, now and then, that the
country people were very angry. . *

Of course, the chief interest in these fetes which we saw, and where-
ever many people were gathered together, was in observing their faces.
The Arab face is very beautiful; and the expression has so much to .do
with it that the worst set of features is not ugly, as it would be else-
where. One face, of which I saw a good deal, would appear hideous
if drawnin proﬁle, or presented in a cast,--with its outrageously thick
lips, immense jaw and ugly nose: butI think of that face as almost
beautiful. The brown complexion (which, in this case, precisely
matched the owner’s cinnamon-colored vest) is a kind of veil to Eng-
lish eyes, softening down harshness of features: and then, there are
the brilliant teeth, quite universally magniﬁcent, and only injured by
the strange practiceI have mentioned—of drawing the teeth needful
for biting cartridges :-and then, there are the beautiful eyes, soft. clear
andintelligent: and the exquisite grace bf carriage and gesture. set off
to the utmost by the oriental dress. Among these advantages, the ugli-
ness Of particular features is almost lost: and the prevailing impres-
sion of the observer is that he sees beauty wherever he turns. The
pathetic expression of the Arab face, its softness and melancholy: the
ﬂowing dress, the slow movement, (in the absence of causes of dis-
turbance,) give the impression of great dignity, it is true, but also of
languor and delicacy: but the muscular strength of these pathetic Arabs
is very great. It is not only that they can support fatigue and hunger
in their journeys, and wrestle vigorously with an opponent, in one of the
quarrels they are so fond of falling into: they lift prodigious weights,
and carry vast burdens'in cool blood. We understood our dragoman’s
health not to be very good: and I certainly doubted his ﬁtness for his
oﬂice at ﬁrst. when it was clear that his lungs were weak: but the
daily proofs he gave of muscular strength would have surprised many
a stout English servant.

As for accurate knowledge of the health and length of life of the
Egyptians, there is none to he had. The distrust existing between the
government and the people is a bar to the obtaining of any reliable
information about any of their affairs: and the observations of a passing
stranger can be worth little. My impression was that of travelers
generally. I was surprised to see how dirty and unhealthy-looking
children can grow into strong and well-formed men and women: and
I was struck by the small proportion of sick that came under my no-
tice throughout the country. On the whole, a stranger would be dis-

