same In com. 235

women, lay in wait for these wretched children, carried them off, and
ate them. It was rarely that they could be detected in the very act,
and when they ’were not on their guard. It was generally women who
were so caught: a circumstance which, in my opinion, occurred only
because women have less ingenuity (‘ ﬁnesse’) than men, and cannot
ﬂy and hide themselves with so much readiness. In the space of a
few days, as many as thirty women were burnt, every one of whom con-
fessed that she had eaten several children. I saw one led before the
magistrate, who had a roasted infant suspended from her neck. Two
hundred stripes were inﬂicted upon her, to draw from her an avowal
of her crime; but no reply could be wrung from her. It even ap-
peared as if she had lost all the faculties which characterize human
nature. Then she was led away by force, and she expired in the
Streets” «‘ '

Doubtless'she was no longer human, but rendered brutish and idiotic
by extremity. After telling how the bodies of the burnt criminals were
eagerly sought, “as already cooked,” and some other atrocities, our

hysician proceeds to relate the peculiar dangers of his medical
rethren—

“ Among the abandoned people, there were some who laid every sort
of snare to surprise men, and to entrap them into their houses on false
pretences. This was what happened to three physicians who were
accustomed to visit me. . . . . . The third Was summoned by
a man to accompany him to a sick person who lived, he said, in the
Schari (the great street). As they went along, the man gave slate of
small coin; and he said (out of the Karin), It is to-day that there will
be retribution, and a reward which shall double that that is given
away. Let those who act, act in view of such a recompense. This was
repeated so often, that the physician beganuto suspect some foul play.
However, the good opinion he had of this man led him on; and be-
sides, the desire of gain actuated him; and therefore he permitted him-
self to be introduced into a half-ruined mansion. Its appearance in-
' creased his alarm: and he stopped upon the staircase, while his guide
went before him, and opened the door. A comrade came to meet them,
and said, ‘ After keeping us so long, you have brought us good game,
I hope.’ These words struck terror into the heart of the physician.
He leaped through an open window which he happily perceived, into
a stable. The owner of the stable came, and asked him what was the
matter: but the physician took good care not to tell him, not venturing
to trust him. Then the man said to him, #1 know about your adven-
ture: the people who live here surprise men and kill them.’ 3" ‘

It may be heped that this was a mauvaise plaisantcrie, appropriate
to the time. But much that Abdallatif saw was only too real and indu-
bitable. He says:

,, If we were to relate all the anecdotes of this kind that we have
heard told, or have seen with our own eyes, we should run the risk Of
being suspected of exaggeration, or accused of a too copious gossip.
All the facts which we have related as eye-witnesses, have come under
our notice without any design on our part, and without our having gone

