m mm. 165

ﬁne attitude in his ﬂying chariot. his bow in hand (which he draws
behind his head) and the reins tied round his waist. Two quivers
crossed are at his right hand; and the exterior one is decorated with an
extended lion. The king’s real lion is visible in the battle too. The
conqueror drives over prostrate and bound captives; and men are fall-
ing around him in all manner of desperate attitudes. The sie e and
river-scenes are very curious; the scaling-ladder, the shiel s, the
bridges, fosses and towers (labeled “ the strong town of Watsch or
Batsch”), giving us much insight into the civilization of the time.
The phalanx of spearmen is capital; their spear-heads being carefully
distinguished from the ri ple of the little blue river in which such large
men are ﬂoundering! hen there is the drowned chief whom his 0-
ple are trying to revive; and the city wall plainly distinguished rom
the rock on which it is built. The horses are ﬁnely given; and so is
the king. Here, as in others of the old sculptures, we come upon what
looks like an odd stroke of humor now and then, as in the ass sta ger-
ing and falling under the weight of a bag of spoil,—meant probab y to
be thus pointed out as gold. But‘ the humor may be merely in our
view of the coalescence of the most literal representation with a method
of art which we have been accustomed to consider formal and conven-
tional beyond all other.

The most beautiful point of view for this palace was from about a
quarter of a mile to the south, where, looking back upon it, its soft-tinted
grove of pillars rose behind the c0pse of dark tamarisks and acacias
which intervened. This was happily not our only view of the Rama-
séum. It lay in our way from some other objects, and I became quite
familiar with it before the week was out.

We visited today a very beautiful temple at EI-Kurneh; to me the
most interesting, on the whole, of any of the ediﬁces at Thebes. It is
old, being begun by the father of the great Ramases, in honor of his
father, and completed by his' son in honor of himself. 1 will abstain
from giving any detailed account of it, and merely mention some of its
peculiarities. '

There were once sphinxes in the dromos, the remains of which are
still traceable. These sphinxes represented King Osirei himself, con-
veying the favorite boast of great men of an early time—their union of
intellectual power and physical strength. Then comes a ruined pylon—
once the second—and another dromos which brings us to the beautiful
portico; beautiful, though no two pairs of its columns are at the same
distance from each other. These ten columns are composed of the
stalks of water plants, bound together below the capital, where they ex-
gand, and are again gathered in by the abacus. This very ancient

gyptian order gratiﬁed me more than any later ones. In a dedication
inscription within we ﬁnd the following declaration of the great Rama-
see, to whom the Supreme, Amun Ra, here again presents the symbol
of Life. “Ramases, the beloved of Amun, has dedicated this work to
his father Amun Ra, king of gods, having made additions for him to
the temple of his father, the king, son of the Sun, Osirei.”" The part

' Wilkinson’s Modern Egypt and Thebes, II. 140.

