270 usnaN urn.

our going was a great amusement to them, they said: and they showed
this by their entreaties to the last moment that we would not leave them
yet, and that we would stay always.—“And these,” as my journal
says, “ were human beings, such as those of whom Christ made friends!
—The chief lady gave me roses as a farewell token.—The Jewish
ladies, who took their leave with us, wanted us to visit at another house :
but we happily had not time.—I am thankful to have seen a hareem
under favorable circumstances; and I earnestly hope I may never see
another.”

I kept those roses, however. I shall need no reminding of the most
injured human beings I have ever seem—the most studiously depressed
and corrupted women whose condition I have witnessed: but I could
not throw away the ﬂowers which so found their way into my hand
as to bespeak for the wrongs of the giver the mournful remembrance
of my heart. .

 

CHAPTER XXIII.

PRESENT CONDITION OF EGYPT.

I FIND in my journal the following complaint. “ One pregnant
fact here is that one can get no reliable information from the most
reliable men. About matters on which there ought to be no difference
of statement, we‘ meet with strange contradictions; such as the rate
and amount of tax, &c. In fact, there are no data; and there is little
free communication. Even a census does not help. The present
census, we are told, will be a total failure—so many will bribe the oﬂi-
cials to omit their names, because of the poll-tax.” Thus it is that
neither I nor any other traveler can give accounts of any value of the
actual material condition of the people of Egypt. But we have a sub.
stantial piece of knowledge in this very negation of knowledge. We
know for certain that a government is bad, and that the people are un-
prosperous and unhappy in a country where there is a great ostentation
of civilization and improvement, side by side with mystery as to the
actual working of social arrangements, and every‘sort of evasion on the
part of the people. We have a substantial piece of knowledge in the
fact that men of honor, men of station, men of business, men of courage,
who have all the means of information which the place and time per-
mit, differ in Opinion and statement about every matter of importance
on which they converse with inquiring strangers. I saw several such
men. They were quite willing to tell me what they knew; and they
assigned frankly the grounds of their opinions and statements: but what
I obtained was merely a mass of contradictions so extraordinary that
I cannot venture to give any details: and if I give any general impres-
sions, it can be only under the guard- of a declaration that I am sure of
nothing, and can offer only what I suppose on the whole to be an in-
dication of the way in which the government of Mohammed Alec works.

