502. menu mm.

a shabby sort of stables, in which live' eleven Derweeshes. They
drone and beg, and say prayers, and live in the style of our cattle.
They cut up the courts with mean wooden palings, within which
beans were growing in the undrained plots which are like ponds after
rain.

The entrances to the city through the deep arches of the bazaar:
are very ﬁne, when the shops are closed,—-as they were this day. We
paused within the shadow and quietness, and looked out upon the gay
and busy life afar, and the minarets,—one cased with green tiles, and
others yellow and white,—-glittering in the sum—During the eightday:
of our abode at Damascus, how many such pictures we saw ! and has
clear it was that such would daily delight the eye, if we were to pal!
there a lifetime of eighty years! Dr. T. likes living at Damascus, and
encourages his countrymen to invest money in mulberry plantations in
Syria, and establish their families there. Few will be tempted to do
so, at the cost of forfeiting the privileges of law and government:—
of living in entire dependence on the protection of the Consul, whoa
own position is always a precarious one. I would not live in Syria.

on any inducement whatever: but that English“ persons do live there, r

and like it, proves what the charm must be of the beauty of the comr
try and its cities: for there is really nothing else :—neither law not
government, nor society, nor a healthy climate.—-A physician is,as he
ought to be, a privileged person everywhere: but there is little encou-

ragement to any other vocation: for the richest proceeds of mulberry“ ,

growing may be swept away at any moment by political or social
change. There is bodily luxury,—-as much as can be enjoyed withotlt
health: and there is a perpetual feast of beauty to the eye. Thts
is,l believe, all, except for those who go for patriotic or benevolent

objects. Such objects, of course, create an all-sufﬁcient happiness 2‘ ‘

Damascus, as everywhere else.

 

CHAPTER II.
AIN FlJJ I.—ZEBDANY.—BAALBEC.——TH E BEKAA.

0N our way out of Damascus, we passed the great military Hospiﬂl
begun by Ibraheem Pasha, when he was master of the country. The
works were stopped when he retired; and now the stones are taken,one
by one, from the unﬁnished walls, by any persons who ﬁnd it convenien!
to use them. From place to place in Palestine and S ria, we call!'3
upon the deserted works of Ibraheem Pasha: and everyw ere we foun
the people lamenting the substitution of Turkish for Egyptian rule-
The Turks, it is true, like the lightness of their present taxation, whic
is pretty much What it pleases them to make it: and everybody knows
that the rulers of Egypt impose high taxes: but the religious toleralioll
which existed under Ibraheem Pasha, and his many public works, call98
him to be fervently regretted ;—-chieﬂy by the Christians, but also by

