uooa’s WELL. 447

with the old sepulchres of Mount Ebal yawning in the face of the
Opposite precipices. At the upper end, to my left, lay the bright town,
nestling in the valley, and extending completely across it,—even
stretching -a little way up the slopes of Gerizim. To my right, the
valley opened out into the green plain,—Jacob’s “ parcel of ground,”
where a small village lay at the foot of Ebal, and -a white Sheikh’s
tomb rose amidst the green. Another little plain joined on upon
Jacob’s possession; and it was bounded by a perfect semicircle of
hills. Below me, to the right, lay some small clusters of ruins, where
I saw my companions dismount, and where l'soon joined them.

The clusters of ruins below, consisted of a mill, with a, channel for
water, two deep shafts in the roof, and a chamber below :-—and, near
at hand, of the remains of a church, which was built very early in the
Christian era, to honor the spot. Four granite pillars are visible:
The well itself might easily be passed by unnoticed. Its mouth looks
like a mere heap of stones: but several travelers who have descended
into it,—Maundrell for one,—describe it so as to. leave no doubt that
all parties,—chs, Samaritans, Christians, and Mohammedans,—who
agree that this is the true old Jacob’s well, are right. Maundrell found
15 feet of water at a depth of 105 feet (inclusive). Moreover, there
is no other well in the neighborhood, except one high up on Mount
Gerizim. There are many fountains in the valley of Sychar, which
one traveler or another has carelessly taken for wells; so that the de-
scriptions of Jacob’s Well are very various. Certainly, the clear foun-
tains and spreading reservoirs in the valley are more tempting to the
imagination, and soothing to the eye of the tired traveler than this hole,
where no water is to be seen; but there can be no question of this
being the spot on which the narrative‘ represents Jesus as sitting to
rest, and asking water of the Samaritan woman. As for the common
objection, that this well is nearly a mile and shelf from the city, and
that the woman would not have come so far for water when she must
have been able to obtain it at many nearer places, I see nothing in it,
as the narrative does not mention that the woman came out of the city.
She is not called a woman of Sychar, but a woman of Samaria;—a
country-woman, probably, living near the well. When she wished
to call witnesses, to come and hear the words of the way-farer, she
naturally went into the city; but there is no mention of her being an
inhabitant of it.

Jesus had not intended to enter the town, it is clear. He was
waiting here while his disciples went up the valley, to buy food in the
town; and then they would have followed the road through the plain
to Samaria. There was no inducement to any Jew to enter any
Samaritan city, if he could avoid it. But when the tow‘nsmen came
out to him, and showed an open-minded interest in hearing of the
Messiah, and of its having become lawful in the mind of a Jew, to
worship elsewhere than in the Temple, Jesus entered the city, and
abode there two days.t‘—No scene of these ancient incidents is more

' John W. '|' John W. 40.

