IOUNT or onms. 435

lay almost deserted during the siege, because the inhabitants had gone
up to Jerusalem to the Feast, and were shut in by the foe, and would
not yield. Far away stretched the fruitful ﬁelds. and the young lambs
were abroad without a shepherd; and here at hand, within these city
walls, was the mother slaying her sucking child for food ! Here, while
baited, exhausted, pierced on every side, did the Lion of Judah stand
at bay with the hunters. .

This is not, however, the spot from which, according to tradition,
Jesus pronounced the doom of the city. That spot is a little way down
the hill; and it is marked by the ruins of a small convent. It might
have been the place; for it commanded the Temple buildings, and a
ﬁne view of the city. The lamentation commemorated here was not
thatinvocation to Jerusalm, as the destroyer of the prophets, which is
usually called the weeping of Christ over Jerusalem. That touching
lament was uttered in the temple, at the close of a denunciation of the
Pharisees. It was in leaving the Temple—that Temple. of Herod
which was new within the memory of the generation who heard him,
and of which the nation was proud,—that the disciples pointed out to
him- “what manner of stones and of buildings” were there. and that he
intimated the ruin that must come. They passed the gates, crossed
the brook, and “sat upon the Mount of Olives over against the Tem-
ple :” and ‘then the disciples asked him privately what was the ruin
which he had foretold. ,

To this incident we owe the clearest exposition we are in possession
of, of the belief and doctrine of Jesus in regard to his kingdom. That
it was a spiritual kingdom, not to be won by war, and not limited to
the expulsion of the Roman power from Palestine, or the mere re-es-
tablishment of the Mosaic system in its purity under a Jewish monarch,
had long been evident. But from this moment it was made clear what
his expectation was, as understood by his followers, and recorded by
those who some years afterwards wrote his history for the information
of the world.’ Luke, in addressing Theophilus, undertakes to review
and consolidate, from the many written accounts circulated at the time
of his history,1' the narrative and expositions which exhibit the facts and
teachings of Christ; and he delivers to us, somewhat less at large than
Matthew and Mark, what it was that Jesus declared on this occasion,
concerning the approaching establishment of his kingdom: and that
the expectation now sanctioned was entertained by the disciples
throughout the existing eneration, we know from the distinct state-
ments of Paul (1 Thessa onians, IV. 13—18). The kingdom of Christ
was to come in that eneration,by the destruction of the existing world,
when not only the Temple should be overthrown, but the powers of
the world and the frame of nature. There was to be a new heaven
and a new earth: Christ was to come, attended by the risen dead and
by heavenly beings; and those of his followers who remained alive
were to meet him in the air, and be rendered immortal without the in-

- Matt. xxw. xxv.; Mark xm, Luke XXI. 1‘ Luke L 1—4.

