438 mm“ mm.

old these hoary, shattered, straggling trees may be, we could not learn.
No one seems to know what age the olive may attain. Of course,
there is a desire to suppose them to be the identical trees under whose
shade Jesus sat; or, at least, suckers from their roots: but I suppose it
will not be seriously maintained that olive trees really live through
eighteen centuries. It is enough to imagine that here was once a
shade, whether of pomegranate, vine, and fig, or of an olive grove,
where the Teacher came to rest from the sorrows of the city or the
glare of the valley. If here he also sustained the anguish of relin-
quishing life so soon after the beginning of his course,—in such early
days of his life and his mission,—before his foUowers had comprehended
the spiritual character of his kingdom, or the nation had taken into its
heart the living faith that Jehovah their King was their Father and the
Father of all men, this place is indeed the most sacred shrine of human
sorrow ! I am glad to have seen it; to know how the shades of even-
ing gathered about him at the foot of the Mount; and how it was that
he saw the multitude issue from the city gate, and come down the
steep hill-side road, with their torches ﬂaring, and their arms glittering
in the yellow blaze. Step by step, he must have seen them approach,
-out of the city. down the hill, over the brook, and up to the garden,
where he came forth from under the trees to meet them, asking them
why they came with tumult and arms, when it was never his way to
conceal himself or to resist.

We haunted this valley more than any other spot in or near Jerusa-
lem : and at different times visited all the objects interesting to a tra-
veler, except the Tomb of the Virgin (so called by the monks). We
knocked at the gate more than once, but the knock was never answered;
and we felt no concern at this, for the place is one of no religious in-
terest. We went among the more conspicuous sculptured tombs in the
Valley of Jehoshaphat ;—those named after Absalom, Jehoshaphat,
Zachariah, and St. James; and one day, we found our way above and
through the village of Siloam. There is no tower there now, to fall on
men’s heads. It is a very poor village, whose inhabitants look wild
enough: but still, thereis a grandeur about it, as there is about all such
places, from the substantial character of the building—We went, of
course, to the Tombs of the Kings, to the north of the city. The en-
tablature here, sculptured with fruit and ﬂowers, is considered the most
elegant work of art in or about Jerusalem. It has an air of incongruity,
however, a modernness, which prevented our feeling much interest
about it; while, as a tomb, the interior was so like an imitation on a
small scale of what we had seen in Egypt, without explanatory remains,
that a cursory look satisﬁed us. Dr. Robinson conjectures‘ this to be,
as Pococke had before suggested, the tomb of the Empress Helena,
who is known to have elaborated a ﬁne sepulchre for herself at Jerusa-
lem. The position of this tomb is striking ;—-in adeep trench, and ac-
cessible only by an arch in a rock partition between two sunk areas:
but within we found mere square chambers, with fragments of paneled

' Biblical Researches, I. 536.

