296 . lunar: Lm.

aﬁ'air, under which he stowed his apparatus, and where he and Alec
slept. His cookingwas, of course, done in the open air, on a trivet,
which held three pane for burning charcoal, over which he put his
saucepans and baking-plate, and where he toasted our bread. He had
charge of the stores ;—the water-skins, ﬂour, biscuit, macaroni, cheese,
condiments, butter, eggs, oranges and preserved fruits; and the wine
and ale. It was his business to buy, keep and kill the fowls and sheep.
He worked harder than any one else of the party; and I wondered that
he held out so well. He had to be up to cook our hot breakfast by
ﬁve o’clock,—givin us always fowl or bashed mutton, eggs and toast.
He had then to pee up his stores and apparatus, and help in striking
the tents. His fatigue of mere traveling was, of course, the same as
ours; and when we stopped, he worked as hard as any one at the severe
labor of pitching the three tents, before cooking our dinner, which was
always ready within two hours of our dismounting. He furnished the
boiling water and toast at tea; by which time, he must often havebeen
half dead. Yet I never saw his face otherwise than earnest and wide
awake ;—never knew him ﬂag. It was really a pleasure to me, when
I went out under the stars in the evening, to see him and Alee seated
at their case with their chibouques: but I believe they had seldom many
minutes together of such rest.

At four o’clock in the morning, or earlier, Alee brought a light into
our tent. Our tin basins had been ﬁlled the night before, and a pitcher
of water and tin cups placed on the table. I always slept in what is
called Levinge’s bag,-an inexpressible comfort. ithout it, I believe
I should scarcely have slept at all; but, as it was, I lay down every
night, absolutely secure from insects of every kind. The ﬂies might
~ hang in clusters, like bees, on the tent pole: the beetles might run
over the ﬂoor, and the earwigs hide themselves under the counterpane,
and ﬂeas skip among the camel furniture; in my bag,—under its wide
airy canOpy, I was safe from them all, and from all fancies about
them. It did not take me above ﬁve minutes in the day to put up and
take down my canopy ;—a small price to pay for comfort and good
sleep.—As soon as we opened our tent door, while I was taking down
my bag, and the gimlets which, screwed into the tent poles, served
us for pegs to hang our things on, Alee carried out our table and its
tressles and the camp-stools, and Abasis laid the cloth for our Open-air
breakfast. We sat down to it at ﬁve or soon after, when the stars were
growing pale, and the translucent dawn began to shine behind the
eastern ridges, or perhaps to disclose the sheeny sea.—While we were
at our meal, we saw one after another of the other four parties come
forth from their tents, and sit down to table ;—the two bachelor com-
panions being always the last. They were generally sitting down just
when I was walking all" in advance, with my courbash (hide whip) and
bag,—containing map, book, note-book, goggles and fan. By this time,
the tents were down, in due succession; the camels were groaning and
snarling, and the Arabs loading them,—with an occasional quarrel and
ﬁght, for variety.—Having learned from Alec or the Sheikh which way
I was to go, I wandered forth; and many a glorious view I had of

