naanaw urrn AT THE BIRTH or cants'r. 393

in knots at particular towns, where certain sacerdotal families happened
to have multiplied, since the character of the priest was essentially
hereditary. His business was'one of routine,—to sacriﬁce, or to burn
incense; to light lamps, to offer shew-bread, or perform some other of
the ceremonies with which ancient religion abounded. It is a striking
fact, that during all Samuel's administration, no one‘ ventured to remove
the Ark from Kirjath-jearim; nor do the priests seem to have been
concerned to take charge of it. But ‘the men of Kirjath-jearim sancti-
ﬁed Eleazer, son of Abinadab, to keep the Ark of Jehovah ;’ and under
the care of the same house it is found in the beginning of David’s reign .
at Jerusalem (2 Samuel vi. 3). This, however, is but one out of
numerous proofs that the ceremonial system was one which very gra-
dually grew up, and was as yet exceedingly immature.—-Except where
lands had been attached to some sanctuary, the priest must have lived
by the sacriﬁces and other offerings, and only in very rare cases exer-
cised, or sought to exercise, any inﬂuence which can be called spiritual.
But no man became a prephet by birth: he needed some call for the
ofﬁce, with exercise and teaching: nor did the prophets often concern
themselves with mere ceremonies, although they occasio ally intro-
duced symbolic actions of their own, suited to impress the pu lic senses.
Their characteristic emblem was some musical instrument, and their
highest function to compose and sing solemn psalms of religious worship
or instruction. Unlike to the Minstrel of the Greeks, who devoted his
powers to ﬂatter chieftains and amuse the crowd; or to the later lyrist,
who composedtlaudatory odes for pecuniary recompense ;—more like
in some respects to a patriotic Tyrtveus, or to a Welsh bard;—the
Hebrew prophet differed essentially in this, that his ﬁrst and great aim
was to please and honor God, in faith that from obedience to Him the
highest good Of man would assuredly follow.”

The time arrived when these spiritual leaders, the Pmphets, gave
place to the Priests: an order of men of whom nothing has been thus
far told which leads us to believe that they were of great importance as
a caste. Their genealogy was not pure: they were dispersed about
the country, serving at different altars, and even in private families.
During the reign of Ahab and Jezebel, they lived side by side with the
priests of Baal, against whom the prOphets wrought to their utter de-
struction. It was a remarkable state of things when Elijah was at
Mount Carmel, ordaining the slaughter of the priests of Baal at the
river Kishon, and the priests of Jehovah were living quietly at Jeru-
salem, seeing the temples of the two gods standing within view of each
other, and themselves associating with the priests of the Sun. It was
in the time of Athaliah, as we all know, that this state of things came
to an end. It was then that Jehoiada put down at once the queen and
the false god, and established the priesthood in that position which it
thenceforward maintained, whenever the nation held up its head.—
There is no need to say anything here of the Hebrew priesthood; for
almost everything that has been said of the Egyptian will answer as an
exact description. When it became a Levitical priesthood, a heredi-
tary caste, including all the higher professions, and subsisting by exclu-

