comcu'nott or arms. 215

liked by the gods, they might have the same idea that lies at the root
of cannibalism and human sacrifices,-in the South Sea islands, and
probably everywhere else. The belief, in such cases, is that the gods
wait to imbibe the spirit of the victim: and the idea is that the victim,
in passing through the gods, becomes assimilated to their nature, and
remains henceforth divine, to the extent of immortality at least, and
usually in some other respects. It is thus an honor and blessin to be
sacriﬁced; and the being eaten implies no disrespect to the penshable
frame, because the body merely follows the analogy of the spirit’s lot;
and what is honorable to the one part of the creature cannot be disgrace-
ful to the other. If the nobler part entered into the gods, the manner
.mi ht enter into the sons of the gods.

he choice of animals for consecration and preservation was probably
determined by the characters of their instinct. Herodotus declines to
explain some particulars which were known to him, and which cer-
tainly appear to have borne, in his view, a solemn import.——How can
we say that it would not have been so with ourselves, if we had stood,
with Herodotus, or Plato, or Pythagoras, in the inner apartments of the
priests, surrounded by the monuments of their art, and the records of
their learning, and favored with their conﬁdence about matters of the
nearest and the most general concern! [own that in the absence of
priests and papyri, when all around was dumb and desolate, and I had
no external aid to knowledge but faded pictures of oﬂ'erin and ﬂutter-
ing mummy ra , I could not resign myself to feelings o disgust and
contempt. If had been on the banks of some South African river,
seeing a poor naked savage at his Fetish worship, I must have tried to
learn what idea, however low, was at the bottom of his observance: and
here, where I knew that men had read the stars, and composed in-
visible truths of geometry, and achieved unaccountable marvels of art,
and originated, or transmitted, the theologies of the world, I could not
despise them for one set of tenets and Observances which remains unex-
plained. I might lament that analogies have been the mischievous
Will-o’-the-wisp to the human intellect that they appear to have been
in the valley of the Nile, 'as in the plains' of Asia, and the groves of
Greece, and the wilderness of Middle Age scholarship in Europe: but
this is a sorrow which one feels in every hour of actual study, in any
country of the world. I might lament that aspiration, in its young and
irrepressible activity, must make so many ﬂights into a dim world of
-dreams, and come back perplexed and disheartened before it can learn
to ﬂy up to the glorious and unfailing light of Nature, to replenish its
life: but this regret is only what one feels every day in ex loring the
only true histor of Man,-the history of Ideas. [might ment that
the Egyptians s ould have so framed and illustrated their faith, as that
it must inevitabl become corrupted in its diffusion: but this is the re-
gret which atten s the contemplation of the spread of every faith by
which mankind has yet been uided. The old Egyptian faith deteri-
orated into worshiping anima s; the Jewish into the Pharisaic super-
stitions and oppressions rebuked throughout the Gospels; and what
Christianity has become, among the widest class of its professors, let

