224 mm.

deep recesses, and come at last to a place where they ﬁnd it impossible
to penetrate further. As for the most frequented and ordinarily used
passage, it is a glacis which leads to the upper part of the pyramid,
where there is a square chamber; and in this chamber a sarcophagus
of stone.”

Up to a recent date, there have been doubts whether the pyramid
was open so long ago as this, and whether, therefore, the tradition was
true which declares that Caliph Mamoou opened it, somewhere about
a.n. 820. It is clear that in Abdallatif’s time there was no novelty in
its standing open: and there seems no reason to doubt the narrative
given by Arab writers of the Opening by Caliph Mamoon. One of
them, Abdel kum, declares that a statue resembling a man (a mummy-
case, no doubt), was found in the sarcophagus; and within the statue,
a human body, with a breastvplate of gold and jewels, bearing written
characters which no one understood. Abdallatif says—-

“ The opening by which the interior of the pyramid is reached at
this day is not the original entrance; it is a hole begun at random, and
made by force. It is said it was the Caliph Mamoon who made it.
The ater part of our company entered it, and went up to the higher
chatn I. When they came down, they gave marvelous accounts of
what they had seen; and they said that this passage was so full of
bats and their dirt that it was almost stopped up: that the bats were
nearly as large as pigeons; and that there were to be seen in the upper
part, open spaces and windows which seemed to have been intended
to admit air and light.—In another visit which I made to the Pyramids,
I entered‘this interior passage with several persons, and went about
two-thirds of the way along it: but having become insensible through
the fear which struck me in this ascent, I came down again, half dead.

“ These pyramids are constructed of great stones, from ten to twenty
cubits long, and two or three cubits in the breadth and thickness.
The most admirable particular of the whole is the extreme nicety with
which these stones have been prepared and adjusted. Their adjust-
ment is so precise that not even a needle or a hair can be inserted be-
tween any two of them. They are joined by a cement laid on to the
thickness of a sheet of paper. I cannot tell what this mortar is made
of, it being of a substance entirely unknown to me. These stones are
covered with writing in that unknown character whose import is at
this day wholly unknown. I have not met in Egypt with any person
who could say that he knew, even by hearsay, of any one who under-
stood this character. These inscriptions are so multitudinous, that if
those only which are seen on the surface of these two uﬁyramidrwere
copied upon paper, more than ten thousand pages wo be ﬁlled with
them.”

For “pages,” Pococke here translates “books.” When we remem-
ber that Abdallatif is telling us what he himself saw, we cannot but
admit this particular of his simple narrative. He goes on:

“I have read in some books of the ancient Sabeans, that, of these
two pyramids, one is the tomb of Agathodemon, and the other that of
Hermes. These are, they say, two great prophets; but Agathodemon

