63 man me.

under the tamarisks, the white—robed soldiers before the gate of the
barracks, the stretch of town-walls beside us, and the minarets of
Eckmim rising out of the palm-groves on the opposite shore, made up
a new and striking scene. Mr. and Mrs. Y. saw, from the boat, part
of the reverse side: they saw eight men in irons, reserved to be bastin-
adoed for the non-payment of their taxes.—As we walked on. we
passed a sdhool, where the scholars were moving their bodies to and
fro, and jabbering as usual. Then we descended the embankment of
the canal which winds in towards the town, and crossed its sluice; and
then we came out upon a scene of millet-threshing. Two oxen, muz-
zled, were treading out thegrain: ﬁve men were beating the ears, and
a sixth was turning over and shaking the husks with a rake. Such are
the groups which incessantly delight the eye in Eastern travel.-—Next.
we found ourselves among a vast quantity of heavy stones, squared for
building. They were deeply imbedded, but did not look like the re-
mains of ancient buildings. And now it was time for us to stop, lest
there should be difﬁculty, if we went further, in getting on board. So
we sat down in a dusty but shady place, among some fowl-houses, and
beside an oven. I never took a more amusingly foreign walk—A
short ramble that evening was as little like home; but more and than
amusing. We entered a beautiful garden, or cultivated palm orchard,
which was in course of rapid destruction by the Nile. Whole plots
of soil, and a great piece of wall were washed away. Repeatedly we
saw signs of this destruction; and we wondered whether an equivalent
advantage was given anywhere else. By day we assed towns which,
like Manfaloot, were cut away, year by year; an by night the sullen
plash caused by the fall of masses of earth, was heard. In countries
where security of preperty is more thought of than it is here, this
liability must seriously affect the value of the best portions of the land:
those which have a river frontage. Here it appears to be quietly sub-
mitted to, as one of the decrees of inevitable fate. The circumstance
of the Nile changing its course must also affect some historical and
geographical questions:-in the one case as regards the marches of
ancient armies, and the sites of old cities; and in the other, the relations
of diﬂ’erent parts of the country. Many towns, called inland by geo-
graphers, are now on the banks of the river. At Manfaloot, it is clear
that the divergence from the old course under the rocks is very great:
and near Benee Hasan the change is made almost from year to year.
When Sir G. Wilkinson visited the caves,‘ the river was so far off as
to leave a breadth of two miles between it and the rocks: and Mrs.
Romer, who was there the year before us, describes the passage to the
caves as something laborious and terriﬁc: whereas, when we visited the
caves on our return, we found the river ﬂowing at the base of the
acclivity; and we reached the tombs easily in twelve minutes. From
the heights, we traced its present and former course, and could plainly
see a third bed, in which it had at one time run. We were sorry to
see it cut through ﬁne land, where the crops on either bank showed

' Wilkinson’s Modern Egypt and Thebes. II. 45.

