m unsm. 108

courts and chambers ;—the remains of the largest statue that even
Egypt ever produced. It is only from a distance that this mass of gra-
nite would be perceived to be a statue, so enormous is its bulk. It lies
overthrown among the fragments of its limbs; the fragments themselves
being masses which it would not be easy to move. The foot looks like
a block preparing for a colossal statue. I had the curiosity to measure
the second toe, and found its length from the fork to be two feet seven
inches. I climbed upon the pile, walking up the inclined plane of its
shoulder, and picking my way on the smooth surface of its neck,
and the remains of its cheek. Some travelers have obtained a sure
footing by setting their feet in the hieroglyphic letters on its back. The
features are gone, the greater part of the face being split away for mill-
stones by the Arabs! How such a mass could be overthrown from the
base remains a mystery. Every writer seems to conclude that the
Persians or Ptolemy Lathyrus effected this kind of ruin throughout
Thebes: but [ do not know why We may not suppose an earthquake to
be the agent. At El Karnac the devastation is such as to defy the be-
lief that human agency could have been employed. Enormous columns
are there overthrown from the base in one fall,—their circular stones
lying overlapping each other like-a row of cheeses: and this without
any traces of mines, or other channel for the application of explosives.
The mountains of stones also of the great propyla at El Karnac, show
plainly that they fell at once; and there are no means known to us, even
now, after all our study of gunpowder, which could cause such an over-
throw as that at one stroke, and without leaving any traces of the means.
But, supposing this mighty Ramases to have been prostrated by an
earthquake, the question remains, how he came here from Syene.
Whether the working was done here or at Syene, the granite was
brought from thence. Sir G. Wilkinson gives its weightas-somewhere
about 887 tons, 5;} cwt.’ How should we now set about quarrying and
conveyin such a mass some hundreds of miles?

Beyon this statue, which used to sit in the area, beside the entrance
to the place, the building looks like a wood in some petriﬁed region
outside our world. The unexpanded lotus is still, to my eye, the most
beautiful kind of column: but the full-blown cup is more a propriate
perhaps to the larger pillars. I like the eighteen smaller pi rs of the
great hall here better than the twelve larger. The li hting of this hall
is beautiful. The roof in the centre was raised some list above the late-
ral roofing; so that large oblong spaces were left for a sight of the blue
sky; and when they admitted the slanting rays of the rising and setting
sun upon this grove of pillars, and, through them, lighted up the pic-
tured walls, the [cry must have been great. Forty-eight illars sup-
ported these roo s ;-—roofs which were painted starry and b ue like the
sky. The hall was one hundred feet Ion . Beyond it extend pillared
chambers, in succession and in groups, ti 1 we come upon mere traces
of their walls and bases of their columns; and at last, out upon the bare
rock. Throughout this range of building, the ground rises and the roofs

' Modern Egypt and Thebes, II. 145.

