'rna nun an. 427

for the quality of the watery—those of the gentlemen who stayed behind
to bathe declared, on rejoining us at lunch time, that they had found
the common report of the buoyancy of the water of this sea not at all
exaggerated, and that it was indeed an easy matter to ﬂoat in it, and
very difﬁcult to sink. They also found their hair and skin powdered
wit salt when dry. But they could not admit the greasiness or sticki-
ness which is said to adhere to the skin after bathing. They were
positive about this: and they certainly did observe the fact ve care-
fully. Yet I have seen, since my return, a clergyman who bathe there,
and who declared to me that his skin was so sticky for some days after--
wards that he could not get rid of the feeling, even/from his hands.
And Dr. Robinson says, “After coming out, I perceived nothing of the
salt crust upon the body, of which so many speak. There was a sli ht
pricking sensation, especially where the skin had been chafed; an a
sort of greasy feeling, as of oil, upon, the skin, which lasted for several
hours." The contrast of these testimonies, and the diversity which
exists among the analyses of the waters which have been made by
chemists, seem to show that the quality of the waters of the Dead Sea
varies. And it appears reasonable that it should; for it must make a
great difference whether fresh waters have been pouring into the basin
of the lake, over various soils, after the winter rains, or a great evapo-
ration has been going on under the summer’s sun. In following the
margin of the sea, we had to cross a creek, where my skirt was splashed.
These splashes turned presently to thin crusts of salt; and the moisture
and stickiness were as reat a week afterwards as at. the moment.

We wound among sa t marshes and brakes, and round ‘hillocks fea-
thered with ﬂowering reeds, and got into the bed of a stream, under the
ﬂecked shade of a shrub, to rest till the bathers overtook us. We were
rather dismayed to ﬁnd that we were still four or ﬁve hours from the
convent of Santa Saba, where we were to stop for the night. The way
was an almost continuous ascent, and in many parts a ve steep one.
We had to mount, from the deep depression of the valley 0 the Jordan.
to some of the highest ground in Judea. We followed the ravine through
which the Kedron runs —(or did when it had any water} into the Dead
Sea,——some of our party taking the right hand 1'1ng an others the left.
In a little while, the limestone hills below looked most fantastic,—com-
pletely answering to our idea of the abodes of the ﬁrst Christian her-
mits. I wished we could have known where the great Essene esta-
blishment of the time of John was placed: but I hope it was in a spot
less desolate than any now before our eyes. B degrees the Jordan
valley opened northwards, and the Dead Sea sout wards, till the extent
traversed by the eye was v'ast. How beautiful it must have been once,
when the Jordan valley, whose verdure was now shrunk to a black line
amidst the sands. was like an interminable garden,and when the cities
of the plain stood bright and busy where the Dead Sea now lay blank
and gray! As I looked back from a great elevation, I thought that so
mournful a landscape, for one having real beauty, I had never seen.

' Biblical Researches, II. 213.

