72 smsan urn.

leaning over from the rocks, and others up to their shouldsm in the
stream. Their dusky ﬁgures contrasted ﬁnely with the glittering
waters; and it was a truly savage African scene. One man came
swimming to us, with a log under his breast, bringing a ﬁsh half asbig
as himself. It was like a gigantic perch; we bought it for- 7&6!" and
found it better than Nile ﬁsh usually are.-—I have often read of the great
resource the Egyptians have in the ﬁsh of their river. They do not
seem to prize it much; and I do not wonder. We thought the Nile
ﬁsh very poor in quality, and commended the natives for eating in
preference the grain and pulse which their valley yields in abundance.

Several people had collected,— there is no saying from whence—in
our cove to see us depart: and I was glad they did; for their ﬁgures
on the rocks were beautiful. One little naked boy placed himself on
the top of a great boulder in an attitude of such perfect grace,—partly
sitting, partly kneeling, with his hands resting on one foot—that I
longed to petrify him, and take him home, an ebony status, for the in-
struction of sculptors. There is no training any English child to
imitate him. An attitude of such perfect grace must be natural: but
not, I suppose, in our climate, or to any one who has sat on chairs.

Our return, with the current, was smooth, pleasant and speedy. We
found that the kandjia had been cleaned, sunk, (three drowned rats
being the visible result of the process,) raised, and dried; and the stores
were now being laid in: and to-morrow we were to go up to the Ra-
pids, to leave the next day clear for the ascent of the Cataract.-—This
evening was so warm that Mrs. Y. and [walked on the shore for some
time without bonnet or shawl; the ﬁrst and last occasion, no doubt, of
our doing so by moonlight on the 27th of December.

The next morning I rose early, to damp and fold linen; and I was
ironing till dinner-time, that we might carry our sheets and towels in
the best condition to the kandjia. No one would laugh at, or despise
this who knew the importance, in hot countries, of the condition of
linen; and none who have not tried can judge of the diﬂ'erence in
comfort of ironed linen and that which is rough dried. By sparing a
few hours per week, Mrs. Y. and I made neat and comfortable the
things washed by the crew; and when we saw the plight of other tra-
velers,—gentlemen in rough dried collars, and ladies in gowns which
looked as if they had been merely wrung out of the wash-tub, we
thought the little trouble our ironing cost us well bestowed. Every-
body knotvs now that to take English servants ruins everything,—de—
stroys all the ease and comfort of the journey; and the Arabs cannot
iron. They cannot comprehend what it is for. One boat’s crew last
year decided, after a long consultation, that it was the English way of
killing lice. This was not our crew: but I do not think ours under.
stood to the last the meaning of the weekly ceremony of the ﬂat-iron.
The dragoman of another party, being sounded about ironing his em-

loyer’s white trowsers, positively declined the attempt; saying that
lie had once tried, and at the ﬁrst touch had burnt 06' the right leg.
If any lady going up the Nile should be so happy as to be able to
iron, I should strongly advise her putting up a pair of ﬂat-irons among

