m morass mssrom 4015

much more on the spot, would have shown the unsoundness‘of the
scheme. Those who are intimate with the minds of educated and con-
scientious Jews are aware that such cannot be converted to Christianity;
that the very foundation of their faith cannot support that superstruc-
ture: that there can be, to them, no reason why they should change,
and every conceivable reason why they should not. They well know
that it is only the ill—grounded Jew who can berconverted; the weak,
the ignorant, or the needy and immoral. After all these years, the
converts are very few; theyare not all Jews; and there is a difﬁculty
about the maintenance of even those few. There was talk, when we
were at Jerusalem, of endeavoring to set up a House of Industry, be-
cause. the converts of course become outcasts from their own people.
Those who withdraw these converts from their old connections, habits,
principles and intercourses, are indeed under an obligation to supply
them with new; but it is to be hoped that they consider well what they
are doing, and how tremendous 'a responsibility they are taking on
themselves, as regards the morale, as well as the fortunes of their con-
verts. It is'no light matter to subvert a man’s habits of mind and life,
to isolate him in the midst of his own city and race, and render him
wholly dependent on his religious teachers. It should be well con-
sidered whether the loss of the faith of his fathers, and the radical
shaking of his own; the exclusion from family, society, and employ-
ment; the loss of tranquillity, and the great moral dangers of such an
uprooting as none but a Jew can ever experience, are really compen-
sated for by anything that the Mission at Jerusalem has-hitherto found
itself able to impart. It scarcely needs to be pointed out, in regard to
this proposed House of Industry, that when once the Mission becomes
an aims-house affair, before the eyes of the city—a city full of Mo-
hammedans and Jews who already regard the Protestant Christians with
utter contempt—there is an end to all hope of converting any but the
alms-house order of peOple ;—the needy and lazy: The hospital
of the Mission is an interesting establishment, and, to all appearance,
well managed. If the Mission is to be a charitable institution, well and
good, (sapposing it to be proved, as a charity, worth its cost:) only let it
be called so: that a vast expense may perhaps be saved, which is sorely
craved by our heathens at home, Who are unquestionably in a far worse
state of spiritual destitution than the Jews in Palestine. While we
have millions of savages in our own island—heathens without heathen

ds—I cannot see why we should spend on a handful of strangers
who have already a noble faith of their own, the resources which would
support Home Missions to a much greater extent. Time will show:
but my own persuasion is that the Jerusalem Mission cannot, from errors
inherent in its very conception, long’endure. On the Good Friday
when we were there, ﬁve Jews—three men and two women—were
baptized: and one of the ladies of the Mission told me that the number
of converts was sixty in the thirteen years since the ﬁrst effort was
made. We were attended by their ﬁrst convert, Abdallah, as a guide.
He was not a Jew, but a Druse. He was an obliging, genial fellow,
who told us that he very much wished to be mentioned in a book, if I

