212 nuns ms.

member here, as in all strange positions of the mind, that we ought to
understand before we despise, and that, usually, the more we understand
the less we despise. Of course I do not, and never shall, pretend to
explain, in any degree, the old Egyptian practices with regard to the
consecration of animals; but two or three considerations occurred to me
on the spot which appeared to be worth revolving.

The most obvious particular of old Egyptian thought and feeling—
that which presses upon the traveler’s notice everywhere among the
monuments, so as to compel him to a reiteration of the fact which must
be excused in him—is the sacredness of Life, and therefore of Organi-
zation. The evidences of this are sometimes such as our existing
morality and taste forbid to be dwelt upon or described to any public,
or to any large number whohave not been there to witness the simpli-
city and the solemni with which this subject is regarded and treated
in the monuments; at my own impression is that there is as much
work for the phi1030pher—the‘religious philosopher—in contemplating
the ancient ideas of sacred things as for the antiquarian in interpreting
the forms of their conveyance; and it may yet perhaps be found that
the speculations of the most devout Christian and the most enlightened
of the old heathens have the same root, and a development not so dif-
ferent as the superﬁcial might suppose. It may be seen, sooner or
later, that in our reverence for Life, we underrate the facts of Organi-
zation as much as the old Egyptians appear to us to have overrated
them, in their reverence for Life. The Christian contempt for the body
may be found to be an error as great and as mischievous as any heathen
worship of it. It may appear that. in considering the animal frame, so
“fearfully and wonderfully made,” as a carcass, a mere shell for the
habitation of the principle of Life, to be despised and disparaged as a
mere instrumentality of what we call Mind, we are as wrong as any
old heathens could be in striving after a factitious immortality for it.
For our contempt of the body—for any species of asceticism—we are,
as far as I can see, without any warrant to be found in Christianity or
' in true philosophy. In our just reverence for the higher part of man’s
nature, his powers of thought and feeling, we may be found, at length,
to have adopted a false supposition of facts, and to have striven after a
separation not warranted by nature between those powers and the ani-
mal frame. Wherever this separation of treatment has been aimed at,
wherever asceticism has been practiced for the good of the soul, the
object has failed; and precisely in proportion to men’s contempt of the
body has been the vitiation of the mind. The whole history of asceti-
cism shows that the mental and moral powers of man sink, or become
corrupted, when the bodily frame is treated with indignity and cruelty,
quite as certainly as when the animal appetites are unreasonably and
unnaturally indulged. And the thoughtful hilosopher sees that it
must be so. All that we really know is that we know nothing of
absolute creation; that we have no evidence of it, and can form no con-
ception of it; that Life itself is an inexplicable fact to us; that we
recognize it only through organization; and,that we have no right, and
no power, to conceive of it as apart from organization—all our laborious

