And honor of the Prophet‘s name,
By whom the saving message came,
Believers meet together here.

And hold these precincts very dear.

I"I'he ﬂoor is spread with matting nest,
Unstained by touch of shoddeu feet,—
A decent and delightful seat!

Where after due devotions paid,

And legal ordinance obeyed,

Men may in happy parlance join,

And gay with serious thought combine;
May ask the news from lands away,
My ﬁx the business of today;

Or, with “God willing,” at the close,
Tomorrow’s hopes and deeds dispose.

“Children are running in and out,
With silver-sounding laugh and shout,
No more disturbed in their sweet play,
No more disturbing those that pray,
Than the poor birds that ﬂuttering ﬂy
Among the rafters there on high,
0r seek at times, with grateful hop,
The corn fresh-sprinkled on the top.

“So, lest the stranger's scornful eye
Should hurt this sacred family,—
Lest inconsiderate words should wound
Devout adorers with their sound,—
Lest careless feet should stain the ﬂoor
With dirt and dust from out the door,—
’Tis well that custom should protect
The place with prudence circumspect,
And let no unbeliever pass
The threshold of the faithful mass;
That as each Muslim his Hareem
Guards even from a jealous dream,
So should no alien feeling scathe
This common home of public faith,
80 should its very name dispel
The presence of the inﬁdel."

The Pasha’s new mosque at the citadel is a building magniﬁcent for
space, and in its position: and I hope he will see it ﬁnished before the
time comes for him to be laid in it. It is a great enterprise: and this
mosque will henceforth be a striking feature to the stranger in the
aspect of Cairo. But I must think the use of alabaster for the interior
of the court a great mistake. However beautiful this veined alabaster
is in small portions. its effect is not good in the mass. 1 never looked
round that court without being reminded of dirty soap-suds. The
streaky and mottled character of the alabaster utterly destroys the im-
pression of grandeur which the architecture would otherwise give.
And, what is worse, it is a crumbling material. Little kernels are fall-
ing out, and corners are broken off, and the sharpness of edges is gone
already, before the work is half done. One might almost as well build

