mxmii'n‘ta. 23

thing around us but a hillocky waste, more dreary than the desert, be-
cause the dreariness here is not natural but induced.—lf we could have
stood on this spot no longer ago than the times of the Ptolemies (a date
which we soon learned to consider somewhat modern) it would have
been more difﬁcult to conceive of the present desolation of the scene
than it now is to imagine the city in the days of its grandeur. 0n the
one hand, we should have seen, between us and the lake, the circus,
with the multitude going to and frO; and on the other, the peopled
gymnasia. Where Pompey’s Pillar now stands alone, we should have
seen the long lines of the colonnades of the magniﬁcent Serapéum.
On the margin of the Old Port, we should then have seen the towers
of the noble causeway, the Heptastadium, which connected the island
of the Pharos with the mainland. The Great Harbor, now called the
New Port, lay afar this day, without a ship or boat within its circuit;
and there was nothing but hillocks of bare sand round that bay where
there was once a throng of buildings and of people. Thereabouts stood
the temple of Arsinoé, and the theatre, and the inner palaces; and there
was the market. But now, look where werwould, we saw no sign of
life but the Arabs at work on the fortiﬁcations, and a ﬁgure or two in
a cemetery near. The work of fortiﬁcation itself seems absurd, judg-
ing by the eye; for there appears nothing to take, and therefore nothing
to defend. Except in the direction of the small and poor-looking town,
the area within the new walls appears to contain little but dusty spaces
and heaps of rubbish, with a few lines of sordid huts, and clumps of
palms set down in the midst; and a hot cemetery or two, with its crum-

bling tombs. I have seen many desolate-looking places, in one country ,

or another; but there is nothing like Alexandria, as seen from a height,

for utter dreariness. Our friends there told us they were glad we staid a

few days, to see whatever was worth seeing, and be amused with some

African novelties; for this was the inhabitants’ only chance of inspiring.
any interest. Nobody comes back to Alexandria that can help it, after";
having seen the beauty of Cairo, and enjoyed the antiquities of Upper '
Egypt. The only wonder would be if any one came back to Alexan-

dria who could leave the country in any other way.

Before we quitted Mont Cretin this morning, we looked into a hol-
low where laborers were digging, and saw them uncover a pillar of
red granite,—shining and unblemished. Some were picking away at
the massive old Roman walls, for the sake of the brick. It is in such
places that the traveler detects himself planning wild schemes for the
removal of the dust, and the laying bare of buried cities all along the
valley of the Nile.

During the four days of our stay at Alexandria, we saw the usual
sights ;—the Pasha’s palace; the naval arsenal; and the garden of the
Greek merchant where the Pasha goes often to breakfast; and we en-
joyed the hospitality of several European residents. We also heard
a good deal of politics ; not a word of which do I mean to write down.
There is so much mutual jealousy among the Europeans resident in
Egypt, and, under the inﬂuence of this jealousy, there is so little hope
of a fair understanding and interpretation of the events of the day, that

'5.

