nosns Biron: Tn: nxonus. . 99!

pondering the leading of that greater ﬂock of which he was to be the
Shepherd, the King of Egypt died ;—-that king who had adopted him
as his grandson, and afterwards threatened his life on account of his
homicide of the Egyptian whom he saw tyrannizing over a Hebrew.
It was early in the reign of his successor that Moses moved towards
Egypt again; for the Exodus appears to have taken place in the fourth
year of this Pharaoh,—Thothmes III. '

This was his second journey over the peninsula of Sinai. When
his purposes were ﬁxed and clear, he led back his ﬂocks, and his family
and servants, to Midian, and bade farewell to Jethro,—whom he met,
the next time, under remarkable circumstances. He took his family
with him; but they turned back to Midian, and left him to proceed
alone.—With what a new heart must he now have crossed these wilds!
Before, he was without a hOpe for his people or a purpose for himself,
and those two hundred and ﬁfty miles of rock and sand must have been
a desert indeed! Now, his new hopes and purposes, springing up
wherever he turned his eyes in this future scene of his enterprise, must
have made the wilderness blossom as the rose.—He did not enter
Egypt alone; .for his elder brother met him. After consultation, they
went together to the Hebrew district, Goshen, where their next busi-
ness was to communicate their enterprise to the elders,—the heads of
families who, as a remaining patriarchal custom, held such rule as now
existed among the degraded pe0ple.

The third entrance of Moses upon the Desert is that which usually
interests travelers most,—not only from its importance, but because
modern travel follows its track. All the three were, as regarded Moses
himself, equally interesting to me; for I cared little for being certainly
on his very track,'while the scene was, in all its grand features, that
in which he lived. But here, in this third transit, there was the great
new interest of sympathy with the people whom he led. What this
interest and sympathy may grow to is perhaps inconceivable to those
at home who have only the vague and dim idea of the Desert. that I
had before I lived in it. a

As every body knows, learned men diﬁ‘er about the road the Israelites
took in leaving their Egyptian abodes. No one knows exactly where
Goshen was, or where the fugitives crossed the Red Sea. It is net
necessary to go over the arguments here, as I have no wish to prove
that in the ﬁrst instance we followed the Hebrew track. Most of our
party, I believe, were convinced that we did; and among those so con-
vinced were the clergy men. I do not see that suﬁicient evidence
exists to give even a preponderance of probability, and I have there-
fore no Opinion on the subject. When once on the other side of the
Gulf of Seuz, the route is, for the most part, clear enough. The doubt
is between two routes from the Nile to the Red Sea ;—that by which
travelers now go straight from Cairo to Suez, and the more southerly
one called Wadee-el-Tiheh,—-the Valley of the Wandering. This
name shows which way tradition points out.

If the reader thinks it worth while here to look at a map, he will
see that a valley runs,.ﬁrst south-east and then east, from the Nile, a

