196 airmail ms.

. CHAPTER XVII.

MANUFACTURES AT KENNEH.—MANNERS OF THE CREW.—EXCUR-
SION T0 ABYDUS.

We escaped the dreaded dinin with the old consul at Kenneh. He
invited us, when the gentlemen caﬁed for their letters ; but they pleaded
business. The old gentleman then begged our empty bottles of our
dragoman, and was made quite happy by them. The cotton manufac-
tory at Kenneh appeared to the gentlemen better than that at Isna.
which certainly struck me as the poorest attempt at a manufacture I
had ever seen. The machinery there was English, but kept in bad
order. It was worked by horse power; and the horses were in poor
plight. The thread produced was uneven, and the woven fabric there-
fore of indifferent quality, from sotmuch of the machinery being worked
by hand. One might say that this was as much as could be expected
from a factory on the other side of Thebes: but then, what beautiful
fabrics the old Thebans wore! and of their own manufacture. And
what luxuries they brought into their homes,by exporting their woolen
and cotton goods !—At this Kenneh factory, ﬁve hundred peOple-were
employed, at wages varying, according to their qualiﬁcations, from 100
piastres (11.) per month, with food, to 50 ‘and 30 piastres. The ma-
chinery here was superior to that at Isna; the thread more even; and
the woven fabric therefore better.

I have before mentioned the Kenneh pottery, and the wide demand
for it. As much as possible is still done by hand. There is no mould
. for the inside. The jar is formed on the ancient potter’s wheel; and
a piece of capper is used to give the external form, and to mark the
outside with the curious scratches which adorn the Kenneh jars. Of
course, it is a rare thing to see a jar which stands quite straight, or is
not out of shape, one way or another. A man can make one hundred
per day of the porous water bottles in common use.

There is a question among students of E yptian history about some
military passes; and a consequent desire to inow from those who have
been up the. Nile, where the mountains approach the river so closely as
to make it difficult for armies to pass. Of course, everything must de-
pend upon the season. But, at the season of our vo age, I should say
there was no part of the shore where an army cou d not pass on the
one side of the river or the other: and it cannot be conceived. that any
army, native or invading, could be in the valley without means of cross-
ing the river, which with the inhabitants has always been such a mat-
ter of course as it is not seen to be anywhere else. At the hi h rock
of Chenoboscion, and for some way on each side of it, there is on y room
for a narrow belt of tilled land, at low Nile; but on the opposite shore
is a plain of considerable width. Generally speakin , (I might almost
say universally.) when the hills_approach on one si e, they recede on

