unsuw FAITH AT was man: or cnms'r. 401~

Ptolemies, and had unrestricted intercourse with the Egyptian priest-
hood, and liberty to dwell, and build, and worship, at Alexandria and
Heliopolis,——which had great effect in enlarging the minds of the Jew-
ish sects, and abolishing their nationality of thought and feeling. At
this time, the prevalence of Greek prOper names in Jewish families
shows how intimate was the intercourse of those two nations. As Dr.
Kitto observes,‘ “there is ample evidence that the more opulent classes
cultivated the language, and imbibed some of the manners of the Greeks.
It is also apparentthat some acquaintance with the Greek philosophers
was obtained, and made wild work 1n Jewish minds. ”—And afterwards
came the dread power of Rome, to lay waste Jerusalem by its agents,
the generals of Antiochus, when, on a certain memorable Sabbath, the
streets of Jerusalem ﬂowed with blood, and the most awful of all events
happened, -the suspension of the daily sacriﬁce. It was in the month
of June (a. c. 167‘) that this took place, and that Jerusalem was com-
pletely deserted, the surviving inhabitants taking refuge among the
nearest of the gentiles. The temple was then dedicated, at the com-
' mand of Antiochus, to Jupiter Olympius‘; an altar to the heathen god
was set up upon that hitherto sacred to Jehovah, and the people were
instructed in the Greek religion by teachers sent among them for the
purpose.‘l—Then arose the Asmonean family, to restore the national
worship, and reconstitute the Jewish people. They might overthrow
the heathen altars, and declare again the name of Jehovah; but they
could not drive out the Greek elements which had found their way into
the Jewish mind, or depress the sect of the Sadducees which rose into
a ﬂourishing condition by means of them. The army of Judas Mac-
cabaaus came to Mount Zion, and cast ashes on their heads when they
saw how the temple of Jehovah lay Open to the winds, and how its
“ courts were grown over with shrubs, as in the forest, or on the moun-
tain. ” They might and did repair the temple, but they could not
undo that desecration of the national mind which had taken place from
the intrusion of the heathen.

Then ensued the enmity between the Pharisees and the Asmonean
princes, which, as either cause or consequence of the interference of
that sect in public aﬂ'airs,:|: could not but have a great inﬂuence on reli-
gious opinion in Palestine. The Asmonean house went over to the
Sadducees; and a bitter war of opinion ensued, fatal to unity of faith
throughout the nation. —The next time we look towards the temple,
we ﬁnd Pompey 1n it,—intruding with his ofﬁcers actually into the
Holy of Holies. He captured it n. o. 63, on the very day kept sacred
as a mourning fast by the Jews, as the anniversary of the conquest of
Jerusalem by Nebuchadnezzar. This was the date of the establish-
ment of the Roman power in Palestine. The walls of the city were
demolished, and the Jews became tributary to Rome.

It is observable that Egyptian worship was at this time and after-
wards so eagerly followed 1n Italy, “ that Augustus made a law that no

' Kitto‘s Palestine, p. 674. 1’ Ibid., pp. 685, 686.
I Ibid, p. 705.

26

