194 ass-run Lin.

Kamac know nearly as much as can be told when they remember that
here are the largest buildings, and the most extensive ruins in the known
world: and that the great hall is 329 feet by 170, and 85 feet high,
containing 134 columns, the 12 central ones of which are 12 feet in
diameter, and the others not much smaller; the whole of this forest of
columns being gay with colors, and studded with sculptures. Of this
hall the central roof is gone, and part of the lateral covering. The
columns are falling, and at an accelerated rate. There is saltpetre in
the stone; and the occasional clamps from the ground cause the corro-
sion of these mighty masses near the bases. They fall, one by one;
and these leaning wrecks, propped up by some accident which must
give way, have a very mouruful aspect. We cannot but look forward
to the successive fall of these incomparable pillars, as to that of the trees
of a forest undermined by springs. These will sink under a waste of
send. as those into the swamp, to be perhaps found again after then-
sands of years, and traced out curiously,-a fossil forest of the mind.

Nothing was more‘striking‘ to us than the evidences of the earthquake.
to which, and not only to Cambyses and Ptolemy Lathyrus, we attri-
bute the overthrow of gigantic columnsin the area, colossal statues, and
mountainous masses of the propyla. If, perplexed by the magnitude
of Egyptian achievement altogether, we give up the point whether
means existed for the overthrow of such masses, there still remains the
question how huge columns could fall straight, so as to be shattered in
regular order, by any means but such a shaking of the earth as art can-
not be conceived to produce.

One curious incident I must mention. A stone has fallen out, in
more than one place, from the wall of the old Pharaonic ropyla; and
looking in at the holes, I saw sculptured and painted bloclis, built into
the interior ;—remnants of a still earlier time, used as material. These

ropyla were standing before Moses was born. The great hall was
built by Osirei, the occupant of the magniﬁcent tomb I have described.
But the original buildings of El-Karnac are of a date beyond our ken.
The earliest portions now remaining are a hundred years older than
any other ediﬁces in Thebes.—I have before mentioned that the only
known allusion to the Jews in the monuments of E pt is on the walls
of El-Karnac. The conqueror Sheshonk (Shishak holds by the hair
a group of captives, whose race is determined, not only by the face, but
by the cities of Judah being named among the array of tributaries.

The ﬁnest view I obtained of the El-Karnac mine was from a mound
just above the lake. To the left lay the blue lake,—-a sheet of still
water, fed by the Nile through the soil, but too salt now for use. Re-
mains of quays and baths made this look as ancient and forlorn as any
other part. To the right lay the somewhat dreary plain which extends
between the ruins and the river. Before me, ﬁlling a circuit of a mile
and a half, lay the ruins; obelisks peeping over rooﬂess temples;
statues seen through rows of columns; pylons standing ﬁrm like out-
posts, while within there is now nothing but wreck to guard: and all
around, wherever we could look or set feet, were mute mourners over

