m m. 51

brown garments which all the men wear. I often wished that some
one would set the fashion of red garments in the brown Nile scenery.
We saw more or less good blue every day, but the only red dress I
had seen yet was at Asyoot, where it looked so well that one wished
for more. The red tarboosh is a treat to the eye, when the sun
touches it; or, at night, the lamp on deck—but the crew did not wear
the tarboosh,‘oaly little white cotton caps, in the absence of the full-
dress turban.

This day was remarkable for our seeing the ﬁrst doum palm (an
angular tree!) and the ﬁrst crocodile. Alee said he had seen a croco-
dile two days before: but we had not. And now we saw several.
The ﬁrst was not distinguishable, to inexperienced eyes, from the
inequalities of the sand. The next I dimly saw slip off into the water.
In the afternoon. a family of crocodiles were seen basking en a mud
bank which we were to pass. As we drew near, in silence, the whole
boat’s company being collected at the hows, the largest crocodile slip-
red into the water, showing its nose at intervals. Another followed,
caving behind the little one, a yellow monster, asleep, with the sunlight
full upon it. Mr. E. ﬁred at it, and at the same moment the crew set
up a shout. Of course, it awoke, and was off in an instant, but unhurt.
We had no ball; and crocodile shooting is hopeless, with nothing bet-
ter than shot. Our crew seemed to have no fear of these creatures,
plunging and wading in the river without hesitation, whenever occasion
required. There being no wind, we moored at sunset; and two of as
obtained half-an-hour’s walk before dark. Even then, the jackals were
howling after us the whole time. Our walk was over mud of various
degrees of dryness. and among young wheat and little tamarisks,
springing from the cracked soil.

0n the 13th we fell in with Selim Pasha, without being aware what
we were going to see. Our crew having to track, the Rais and Ales
went ashore for charcoal, and Mr. E. and I for a walk. Following a
path which wound through coarse grass and thorny mimosas. we found
ourselves presently approaching the town of Soohadj: and near the
arched gate of the town, and everywhere under the palms, were groups
and crowds of people, in clean turbans and best clothes. Then appear:-
ed, from behind the trees on the margin, three boats at anchor, one
being that of Selim Pasha himself; the others for his suite. He had
come up the river to receive his dues, and was about to settle accounts
now at Soohadj. He had a crew of twenty-three men, and was pro-
ceeding day and night. .His interpreter accosted us, offered us service,
discussed the wind and weather, and invited us to take coffee on board
the Governor’s boat. [was sorry to be in the way of Mr. E.’s.goi ;
but I could not think of such an adventure, in Mrs. Y.’s absence. e
saw the Governor leave his boat, supported by the arms, for dignity’s
sake. He then took his seat under a palm, and received some papers
oﬂ'ered him. He looked old, short, and very business-like. A scribe
sat on the top of his cabin, with inkhorn and other apparatus; and a
man was hurrying about on shore, with a handful of papers covered
with Arabic writing. All this, with the turbaned and gazing groups

