I 222‘ smart urn.

one of inestimable importance. ‘He found inscribed in the Pyramid, in
the most antique style, the names of the Pharaohs who raised these
ediﬁces: and they turn out to be the same given by Herodotus and
Manetho. It is now ascertained, beyond all doubt, that these Pyramids
are the work of Pharaohs of the fourth dynasty ;—-that is, of kingsearly
succeeding Menes, and living near the beginning of the First Period of
Egyptian history.

I suppose every one knows the account given by Herodotus of the
building of this pyramid ;—how Cheops closed the temples, stopped
the sacriﬁces, and made eve body work for him :—how some. quar-
ried the stone in the Arabian ills, and others conveyed it to the river
and over a bridge of boats; and others drew it to the s where it was
wanted :—and how it could be carried and mounted on y by a causeway
which of itself took ten years to construct, and which was a‘ fine work,
with its polished stones and ﬁgures of animals engraved on them :—
how 100,000 men were employed at a time, and were relieved by the
same number at the end of three months: how, besides the ten years
occupied by the causeway, much was required for levelin the rock
on which the ediﬁce stands, and twenty years for the buil ing of the
pyramid itself:--how a machine, made of short pieces of wood, was
p need on every step, as the work proceeded, to raise the stones for the
step above ;' and how the ﬁlling in of these gradations, forming the last
smooth surface, was begun from the top:-—how this surface bore en-
graved, so that Herodotus himself saw it, an inscription which told the
expense of the ‘vogetables eaten by the laborers during the pro s of
the work: and how confounded the traveler declares himsel to be,
judging from the sum spent in vegetables, at the thought of the expendi-
ture further necessary for the rest of the food and the clothes of the
workmen, and their iron tools, during the long course of years uired
for the whole series of works,——amongst which, by the way, 0 in-
cludes the “ subterranean structures” which he again mentions, as made
by the king, “ for purpose of sepulture, in an island formed by the
waters of the Nile, which he introduced into them by a canal."

All this narrative, thus brieﬂy glanced at, is known to everybody
who cares about Egypt: and everybody has no doubt been struck by
this testimony to the use of iron tools, and the existence of polished
stones, machinery, writing and engraving, between ﬁve and six thousand
years .-—But everybody may not know what evidence we have of
the soli ity and extraordinary vastness of these works, in the impossi-
bilit which has been found of taking them to pieces. This evidence
we ave through our useful middle age witness, Abdallatif, whose book
is so little known that I may be rendering a service by translating some

relating to his visits to the pyramids in or about A. D. 1190.

Ab allatif begins with the same thought which sug sted the noble
saying, “All things dread Time: but Time dreads the yramids.” He
says—

“The form which has been adopted in the construction of the Py-

' Herod. II. 124.

