cnanoms cameras or run runs. 05

and her cotton thread was very coarse. It was striking to see this
little art existing in places so widely apart.

We walked, this afternoon, to the ruins of the old town, and over-
looked its desolation from the top of the rock above the river. The
translation of the name of this town is “the Opening:” and a great
opening this once was, before the Nile had changed its character in
EthiOpia, and when the more ancient races made this rock their watch-
tower, on the frontier between Egypt and the South. -

That the Nile has changed its character, south of the First Cataract,
has been made clear by some recent examination of the shores and
monuments of Nubia. Dr. Lepsius has discovered watermarks so high—
on the rocks, and ediﬁces so placed as to compel the canviction, that'
the bed of the Nile has sunk extraordinarily, by some great natural-
proeess, either of convulsion or wear.’ The apparant exaggerations
of some old writers about the Cataracts at Syene, may thus be in some
measure accounted for. If there really was once a cataract here, in-
stead of the rapids of the present day, there is some excuse for the
reports given from hearsay, by Cicero and Seneca. Cicero says that
“ the river throws itself headlong from the loftiest mountains, so that
those who live nearest are deprived of the sense of hearing, from the
greatness of the noise.” Seneca’s account is,—“ When some people
were stationed there by the Persians, their ears were so stunned with
the constant roar, that it was found necessary -to remove them to a
more quiet place.”—Supposing the Cataract formerly to have been of
any height rendered necessary by the discoveries of Dr. Lepsius, it is
clear that Syene must have been the station for the transshipment of
merchandise passing north or south. The granite quarries, too, whence
much of the building material of old Egypt was drawn, must have
added ,to the business of the place. It is clear, accordingly, that this
was, in all former times, a station of great importance. There were
temples at Elephantine, to guard the interests of the neighborhood, and
to attract and gratify strangers. There was a N ilometer, to give tidings
of the deposits of the great god Nilus. There was a garrison in the
time of the Persians, and again in that of the Greeks: and Roman
fortiﬁcations stand in ruin on the heights around. The Saracenic re-
mains are obvious enough: and thus we have, on this frontier spot,
and visible from the rock on which we stood, evidence of this place
having been prized by successive races, as the Opening which its pre-
sent name declares it to. be.

The ruins of the Saracenic town make their site desolate beyond
deseription:—more desolate to my eyes, if possible, than the ﬁve acres
I saw laid waste by the great New York ﬁre. Two women were
sitting under the wall of a rooﬂess house, with no neighbors but a few
prowling dogs. They warned me away till they saw the rest of my
party coming up the ascent. The Island of Elephantine, opposite,
looked as if just laid waste by an earthquake, scarcely one stone being
left upon anather of all its once grand ediﬁces. On its rocks were

I

' Appendix c.
5 .

 

