Tm: suaarrm. 441

and again, if the Jews wished to preserve any appearance of unity of
race and faith, it is no wonder that they refused to have any dealings
with a people who had for generations intermarried with heathens, and
regarded Jehovah as only the chief of several gods. And if the Jews
believed it essential, as they now did, that there should be but one altar
of Jehovah, it is no wonder that they regarded with horror the build-
ing of the temple on the mountain. It was natural, again, that lax-
minded Jews, who had broken the Law, by marrying heathen wives
and otherwise, and who yet wished to worship Jehovah in his temple,
should resort to Sychar, to join the Samaritans,—thus rendering their
race yet mare mixed. Here were causes enough for there being “ no
friendly dealings” between the Jews and the Samaritans.—But there
was, besides, the quarrel about their Scriptures,—each people charging
the other with having falsiﬁed the texts about the mountains Ebal and
Gerizim, and each claiming to hold the true copy of the Pentateuch.—-
The quarrel had been ﬁerce for above ﬁve hundred years before the
time of Christ. How many suns had gone down upon the wrath of
these neighbors, who claimed the same origin and the same God! It
was bitter in proportion to its duration, and to the close connection of
the foes: so that it was only natural that the pe0ple of a Samaritan
village should refuse to permit Jesus to rest there,‘ because his face
was turned to Jerusalem; and that James and John should ask for the
destruction‘of this village by ﬁre from heaven. And how beautiful
was the rebuke! What an exemption from Jewish prejudice and
human an er was there in the reply which showed that a greater than
Elias wasﬁiere ;—one whose mission was not one of vengeance, but of
redemption ;—-who came, “ not to destroy men’s lives, but to save
them !” How soothing and uniting was the declaration that the old
quarrel about the place of worship was to be left behind and forgotten;
-—thathenceforth worship need be-conﬁned neither to“ the Mountain
nor Jerusalem, but should be universal,—-in spirit and in truth l—And
how were rebuke and charity combined in the parable, when the good
works of the alien Samaritan were exalted above the oﬂicial sanctity
of the Priest andof the servant of the Temple at Jerusalem !

And then, coming down lower than the time of Christ, a great in-
terest attaches to Samaria. The Book of Acts (chap. viii.) tells how
freely the country people of Samaria accepted the gospel, and were re-
ceived into its fellowship, on the preaching of Philip: and several of
the Fathers give us very curious and interesting accounts of the False
Christ whose dealings with the apostles are brieﬂy related in that chap-
ter of the Acts. lrenzeus, Origen, and Eusebius give copious accounts
of this Simon; in the reading of which, however, it is necessary to re-
member the bias under which they wrote.—It appears that two false
Christs, conspicuous above all others, arose, as Eusebius saysn‘ imme-
diately after the ascension of Jesus, claiming to be gods, but in reality,
actuated by devils :—these were Simon of Samaria, and Apollonius
of Tyana. With the latter, we have nothing to do: but Simon is an

' Luke IX. 52—56. 1’ Hist. Eoclesiast, Lib. II. cap. xii.

