smn'rs AND nazuas. ‘ 245

But before I had reached the bazaars, I was generally in a state of
vexation with myself for my carelessness about surrounding objects. I
hardly know what'itis in these Eastern countries which disposes one to
reverie; but I verily thought, the whole journey through,and especially
at Cairo, that I was losing my observing faculties—so often had I to
rouse myself, or to be roused by others, to heed what was before my eyes.
I did not ﬁnd it so on our route to Egypt, nor in crossing France on
our return; so, my own experience would lead me to suppose that there
is something in the aspect of Oriental life and scenery which meets
and stimulates some of one’s earliest and deepest associations, and en-
gages some of one’s higher mental faculties too much to leave the lower
free. ' The conﬂict was not agreeable, however; the longing to have
for one’s own forever every exquisite feature of the scene, and presently
the discovery that one had passed through half a dozen alleys without
seeing anything at all; and all for pondering something which might be
as well thought over at home! By‘dint of incessant self-ﬂapping and
endless rides, however, I arrived at last at knowing and remembering
almost every peculiar object in Cairo—of such, 1 mean, as offer them-
selves to the eye in the streets. I really do not know how I can convey
my own impression of what I saw so well as in the words of my memo-
randa put down at the time. “Cairo streets are wholly indescribable—
their narrowness, antiquity, sharp lights, and arcades of gloom, carved
lattices, mat awnings, mixture of hubbub and fatalist quietude in the
people, to whom loss of sight-appears a matter of course—the modes of
buying and selling—all are in my mind, but cannot be set down.”
Again. “ Went with my party to shop—a most amusing affair. I
bought a Tuscan straw hat for 4s. 6d., while a common and not large
saucepan, copper tinned, was priced 123. It was awkward waiting
while Mr. E. bought brown shoes,—-the way was so narrow, and our
donkeys were ﬁve, and horses and laden camels were continually pass-
ing, thrusting us among the very merchandize: and then there was the
smart and repeated crack of the courhash which ives warning that a
carriage is coming, and that we must plunge into t e nearest alley; and
then there was a cart or two; and all the while there was some staring,
though not much, and clouds of ﬂies from a fruiterer's shop.” The
tranquil slowness with which the tradespeople (who all looked, to my
eyes, like kings and princes in fairy tales) served any one of us gave
all the rest many such opportunities of observation. One of the dro lest
incidents of this kind befall when the gentlemen were in search of some
eastern garments for their desert ride. We ladies, with the aid of our
dragoman, made our purchases and returned to the tailor’s—stood, ‘sat,
inquired into the meaning of everything within sight, and Wondered at
the long delay. It ended in the amusement of ﬁnding that the gentle-
men had obtained nothing but a lesson, and some practice in trying on
eastern garments. After a world of effort, and of tying and hookin ,
and inquirin of prices, it came out that the clothes were second
hand; and t ey were pulled off much more quickly than they were
put on. x *
Carriages are quite alarming in Cairo, which was «not built for ‘tho

. h J I
a 51’ ‘4‘;

