uosns a'r trouser emu. 328

the Mosaic plan and that of any other theocracy was that here no such
intervention was permitted. There was no man here to whom they
were to bow the knee, and who waste tower between them and the
light of their life. Instead of a crowned priest, in royal chariot, riding
over the peeple’s necks to attend Mysteries in which he was to enjoy
what they would never know, here was‘the meek magnanimous Moses
standing barefoot and plainly clad, pointing the gaze of the people to
the mountain tap or to the sky, undergoing instead of enjoying power,
and having nothing to ask of Jehovah or of his brethren but that He
should be their God, and they should be His people. According to all
that Moses had ever seen, learned, or thought, he must unite in him-
self the ofﬁces of legislator and interpreter of the Divine Will. The
lawgiver and priest were one in every country he had known or heard
of: and he must be so now. But never before was there a Vicegerent
of an Unseen Power so meek: and never a lawgiver so disinterested.
We never think of him as the Pharaoh he might so easily have been;
—more easily than he could be what he was. We think of him as
one of the quietest men whose names have come down to our day; a
man struggling under a burden of duty and destiny which he found
too heavy for him, and from which he would fain have shrunk, to
hide himself again in the moist nooks of the Desert, with his sheep
about him.and ruminate once more over “ all the wisdom of the Egyp-
tians.” Yet. as he did not quit his work, and as he did achieve an en-
terprise which will affect the destinies of mankind to the end of time,
we may be assured that he had the support of that privileged thought,
—“ the world hath not known thee, but I have known thee.”

It appears as if there had been an intention and a hope of training
the Hebrews to a state of knowledge and obedience by moral instruc-
tion, and a plan of pure and simple worship; the obedience of Abra-
ham, and the simplicity of his worship in the door of his tent being per-
haps the example and the aspiration which Moses had before him when
he brought forth the Hebrews from Egypt. Warburton and others are
of opinion that the ritual scheme was adopted after the affair of the
golden calf, which showed the people to be more incapable of a pure
religion and direct communication than could have been supposed. A
comparison of the two sets of Commandments seems to countenance
this view. The ﬁrst set,* though falling below the inculcation of per-
sonal righteousness, yet are of a much higher character than the second.
They aim at a good degree of social order, for the age in which they
were given, and contain nothing ritual except the precept about the
Sabbath. This is the set brought down by Moses when he found the
people feasting about the golden calf,and which he broke and threw from
him. The second Ten,f which remained permanent, are such as may
well be believed to haVe accompanied the ritual system now supposed
to have been instituted. They are all ritual except the ﬁrst two: these
two merely forbidding all covenanting with heathens, and making of
molten gods. The whole set contains no directions for personal or social

' Exodus XX. 3—18. 1' Exodus XXXIV. 12—27.

