mule. 509

gles’ opinion when he says, “I think that he who has once each Egypt,
will never feel equally interested in any other country.”
The six enormous columns which are seen for many miles round,
are the grandest feature of the ruins. The eagle is interesting, from
being the true eagle of Sun-worship,——unlike the Roman, or any other
emblematic eagle; and,to my eye, little resembling any actual bird. It
is not easy to obtain a good view of it, as it is in an inconvenient posi-
tion overhead ;-—-and the block which contains the greater part of it has
sunk from its place, so as to divide the ﬁgure, and to threaten to fall on
the head of the gazer.—The reat hall has a classical air; and its niches
probably contained Roman i 013. We wished the wall away which
spoiled the corresponding recess, b being built directly across the
area; but there was something stri ing in seeing within the same
enclosure, traces of the three successive proprietorships ;—those of
Baal-worshipers, the priests of Apollo, and the Saracens. It is impos-
sible to give an idea how diﬁerently the worship of Baal appears among
the ruins of his shrines and in the school-room at home. Amidst the
contempt of idols in which we are brought up, it is a perpetual wonder
how idols could have obtained any worshipers. Children in En. land,
——and some grown children there,—lose all patience with the Regrews
that they could so much as turn their heads to look upon Baal and
Astarte, and have no words for their contempt of people who, in the
Promised Land, could “ halt between two opinions.” They have a
strong impression, too, of the vulgarity of Baal, who appears a much
nobler deity when he is found to be the same with Apollo.~ I must con-
fess that I felt almost as much affected with the sense of the folly of all
this prejudice, when I stood among the ruins of Baa'lbec, as if I had
just come out of .the school-room in which I used to take upon me, thirty
years ago, to despise Baal, and be disgusted with his vulgarity. Of
course, I had long been aware, when I deliberately considered the
matter, that this worship, like every other, prevailed,and could prevail,
only in virtue of the Ideas in which it originated. But there is norhing
like being on the spot, for shaking off prejudice, and liberating one’s
sympathies. I had found this in Egypt, when I was instructed b what
I saw to judge of its old faith as we would have Christianity ju ged of
in a future age of the world ;-not by the literal outward representation
alone, but with the remembrance that a whole world of ideas and feel-
ings was living and moving within; and here I received another les-
son in the magniﬁcence and exquisite beauty which could have had
no meaner origin than a spirit of reverence. In these mighty halls,
under these lofty colonnades, there can be no doubt that hearts have
beat. and souls have been stirred, with emotions as intense as human
nature is capable of ;-—of adoration and gratitude to the Lord of Life
and the Light of the World. Baal was the most life- iving and beneﬁ-
cent of heathen deities; and he was adored according y.
Nothing but earthquake could have effected such min as is seen have.
All about us Is, shafts and capitals; and sculptured blocks shaken out
of the ceilingo the portico: and when we climbed a shattered staircase
belonging to the massive Saracenic portion of the buildings, we saw

