184 man an.

In the side chambers are devices yet waiting for their'interpretation :
—ﬂames, heads and headless bodies, men bound, or standing feet upper-
most, or lying on their backs—or with their heads just leaving their
shoulders; with the scarabzeus in the boat, and other animal symbols
which show that these are not, as some have hastily supposed, human
sacriﬁces. (which did not make a part of Egyptian worship,) but were
probably a symbolical representation of the process of initiation into
the priestly mysteries.

The sarcophagus chamber is wonderfully ﬁne. After exploring it as
well as we could with the lights we carried—picking out the devices on
the walls, but discerning nothing of the vaulted ceiling at the end where
the sarcophagus stood, we enjoyed seeing the whole lighted up by a ﬁre
of straw. I never shall forget that gorgeous chamber in this palace of
death. The rich colors on the wall, (especially the profusion of deep
red.) were brought out by the ﬂame; and the wonderful ceiling whose
black vault was all starred with emblems, and peopled with lines of
yellow ﬁgures—countless, in two vast regiments—this waslike nothing
earthly. And it is like nothing on the earth. These starry emblems
are what has been called the Zodiac. I should not have discovered or
supposed them to bear that meaning: but Champollion, who knew
more than anybody else about such things, oﬂ'ers his readings of old
Egyptian almanacks—quoting the testimony of Diodorus about “the
gil ed circle of Osymandyas, which gave the hours of the rising of the
constellations, with the inﬂuences of each.” Champollion gives us
some of these inﬂuences :—-as, “Orion inﬂuences the left ear. 1st
hour: Orion inﬂuences the left arm. 2d hour: Sirius inﬂuences the
heart,” and so on.‘ Payne Knight saysi' that Astrology is not ex-
pressly mentioned among the pursuits of the ancient Egyptians; but
that their creed certainly admitted the principle on which it is founded;
—that is, necessity—a derivation of all destinies from the original im-
pulse given by an immutable Creator.

Beyond the sarcophagus chamber. the excavation still descends, by
staircases and passages, till the mass of earth, fallen from above, bars
further progress.

Such are the places where, as Isaiah says, “the Kings of the nations,
even all of them, lie in glory, each in his own house,” (Is. xiv. 18,)
and such are the regions supposed by him to be moved at the approach
of the tyrant, and to stir up their dead to meet him who has become
as weak as they, and must now be brother of the worm, and be brought
down to Hades, to the sides of the pit.—From Egypt, this method of
burial spread far over the east; and the caverns of the hills contained
the successive generations of many peeple, besides the Hebrews, who
had, in their civilization, followed the ideas and methods of Egypt.
Happily for the human race, the ideas spread with the forms. After
the example of Egypt, men preserved, amidst more or less corruption,
the belief in One Supreme God; in a Divine Moral Government; in a

’ Lettres sur l’Egypte.
1' Payne Knight’s “ Inquiry into the Symbolical Language," &c.

