more“ nevi-runs. 299

train, through a long series ’of Mansions in the great abode of the Sn-
preme. They taught that every mind, whether of man or brute, was
an emanation from the Supreme ;’ and that the bod was only its abode
arid instrument; the soul being, from its nature an derivation, immor-
ta .
Such were the Ideas transmitted to other countries and to future races
by this very ancient people. That such were their ideas, we know by
a far surermedium than tradition—though that also is not wanting. By
the hearing of the ear, and the sympathy of the mind, they transmitted
these Ideas in their living force. By their sculptures, their paintings
and their legends, they immutabl recorded them.

All knowledge is sacred. Al truth is divine. It is not for us to
mix up passion and prejudice with our perception of new facts. We
may not like to be perplexed by new knowled e which throws us out
of some notions which we took for knowled e efore. We are apt to
feel our own spiritual privileges lessened y its appearing that they
were held for many ages before the time which we had supposed. It
mi ht be enough to leave the minds of students of the past to subside
an grow tranquil, (as minds always do, sooner or later,) in the sublime
presence of facts; but I would just ask whether the great guiding Ideas
of mankind are the more or the less venerable for having wrought for
some thousands of 4 years longer than we had -im ined; and whether
it is or is not a testimony to the power of those I eas that they raised
into spiritual light a race which thereby became the greatest in the an-
cient world, preserved their empire through a longer duration than that
of any other known people, and were made the source of enlighten-
ment to nations then and still unborn. If, weak in our partial know-
ledge, and in the prejudices of our whole lives, we need reconciling to
the facts of the Egyptian history of Mind, I think these testimonies to
the power and saving character of these venerable Ideas may have a
cheering efﬁcacy, and can have no other.

Here, as I said, the volume of ancient Egyptian history was closed
to us. We had Cairo before our eyes as we rode away, and found let-
ters from England on board our boat—happy letters which were a re—
buke to our anxiety—at least I may say this for myself.

We were not injuriously fatigued by our most successful excursion;
rather tired in the evening, and verystiﬂ' the next day; but nobody
ill, and everybody well satisﬁed. It was no satisfaction to any of us
that our Nile voyage was over; but this was an inevitable misfortune;
and we bore it as well as we could.

