nonunmmsn. 499

to the prerogative of their own reason, conscience, faith and affections.
While Mohammedanism appealed but partially to the strength of the
human soul,—to its courage, patience, and obedience, (being lax to its
indolence, both intellectual and spiritual.) Christianity appealed to all
its powers, and put it in its own charge,-—setting all things, in earth
and heaven, within its reach, on condition of the exertion of all its
owers. Mohammed gave endless instructions to men what to do.
ﬁut He who so well knew what was in man, knew that men can do
anything that they see: and Christianity, therefore, gives the light, in-
stead of offering a hand to guide men through the dark. It gives the
light, calling upon men to ﬁnd, train, and exercise their powers of
si ht.
gMost miserably, however, has Christianity surrendered this life-giving
inﬂuence here in the presence of Mohammedanism. We went to visit
the Greek Patriarch and his chapel and new church. How much
more Christian do the mosques look in their simplicity, than these idola-
trous Greek churches with their profane mythological pictures, and
their multitudinous rites and Observances! In this church we saw a
very ﬁne carved screen, half of which is spoiled by gilding, which is
to extend over the whole when it is ﬁnished. The carving is very ﬁne,
and most elaborate: and yet the whole screen, extending completely
across the church, costs only 1201. The Patriarch, a white-bearded
man of seventy-eight, of the commonest aspect, was in a state of high
delight, which he expressed with a very innocent glee, at the reception
he had met with in his recent progress round his diocese. He told us
that the peeplc came out in crowds to carry him into their towns: a
treatment very unlike that which he will ever meet with in Damascus,
where the Mohammedans invent tortures for Jews. It is curious
how the Predestinarians of the world have followed one another—as
here the Mohammedans have followed the Pharisees—in punishing ad-
verse opinion more severely than immoral conduct. Hence, no doubt,
has arisen the bad character of the Mohammedans as spreading their
religion by the sword. Their Prophet did not desire or contemplate
this, but used only reason and persuasion during the greater (part of his
course, being driven to the use of the sword at last, after a uration of
meekness and patience quite wonderful in an Arab of the Desert. The
charge of proselyting by violence appears to Eastern travelers as mis-
placed in regard to the Prophet and his original faith as that of sensual-
ism. One needs but to travel in Mohammedan countries to take aquite
diﬁ'erentview from the popular European one of these matters. While
it is true, and honorably true, of Mohammedanism, that it respects,
more than any other religion, the natural instincts of man, it is no less
true that it ordains much asceticism, and that it has ever operated as a
check upon sensualism, rather than as a sanction to it. There are de-
vout ascetics, mystics, temperate men and proﬁigates, as there are under
all faiths, from Buddhism to Quakerism: but the operation of Moham-
medanism is in favor of temperance—place, time and circumstances of
its institution being considered.

One of the most affecting sights to us in Damascus was that of the

