02 am am.

observed a likeness to persons—and especially one very pretty one—
at home.

The other thing that surprised me most was the profusion of the
sculptured inscriptions. I had often read of the whole of the surfaces
of these temples being covered with inscriptions: but the fact was
never fairly in my mind till now: and the spectacle was as amazing
as if I had never heard of it. The amount of labor invested here
seems to shame all other human industry. It reminds one more of the
labors of the coral insect than of those of men.

After taking a look at the scanty remains of the mailer temple, we
returned to the boat, to set foot on land no more, we hoped, till we
reached the boundary of Egypt, at the old Syene. My friends at home
had promised to drink our healths at the First Cataract on Christmas
day: and, when the wind sprang up, on our leaving Adfoo, and we
found, on the morning of the 24th, that it had carried us twenty-ﬁve
miles in the night, we began to believe we should really keep our
appointment. '

The quarriea of Silsilis have a curious aspect from the river ;-—half
way between rocks and buildings: for the stones were quarried out so
regularly as to leave buttresses which resemble pillars or colossal
statues. Here, 'where men once swarmed, working that machinery
whose secret is lost. and moving those masses of stone which modern
men can only gaze at—in this once busy place, there is now only the
hymns and its prey. In the bright daylight, when the wild beast is
hidden in its lair, all is as still as when we passed.

We saw, this morning, a man crossing the river, here very wide, on
a bundle of millet stalks. His clothes were on his head, like a huge
turban, and he paddled himself over with the branch of a tree.

At sunset, the contrasting colors of the limestone and sandstone
ranges were striking. The limestone was of a bright pale yellow : the
sandstone purplish. By moonlight, we saw the ruins of Kém Umboo
(Kom Ombos), which looked ﬁne on the summit of their rock on the
eastern bank.

Christmas morning was like a July morning in England. We had
made good progress during the night, and were now only eleven miles
from Aswin (Essouan), the old Syene—the frontier between Egypt
and Nubia. When we camewithin two miles, we left our letter-
writing. The excitement was too strong to allow of any employment.
At present, we saw nothi of the wildness of the scenery, of which
we had read so much. e found that higher up. The river became
more and more lake-like; and there was a new feature in ﬁre jutting
black rocks. The shores were green and tranquil; and palms
abounded more than in any place we had passed. Behind these rich
woods, however, the Lybian desert rose, yellow with sand drifts.—Our
crew became merry in the near prospect of rest. One of them dressed
himself very ﬁne, swathing himself with turbans, and began to dance,
to the music and clapping of the rest., He danced up to us, with in-
sinuating cries of “ has” and “ baksheesh,” as a hint for a present of a
sheep. In the midst of this, we ran aground, and the brisl fellows

