416 nuns ms.

securit of the roads. Our servants, tents and kitchens were there, as
we ha to spend two ni hts away from Jerusalem ; and ten well-armed
guards escorted us. T e road from Jerusalem to Jericho is as danger-
ous from thieves as ever it was. There is not a worse road in Pales-
tine: but our caravan was too large to be attacked by any band of rob-
bers; and we hardly saw a human ﬁgure, except at the wells, the whole
way, after leaving Bethan .

It was about nine o’clock when we began to wind up the camel road
to Bethany, which led us over the eastern ridge of Olivet. As soon as
we had passed the ridge, Bethany came in view, lying on the eastern
slape of the Mount of Olives, and, as everybody knows, “ ﬁfteen fur-
longs” distant from Jerusalem. It is now a village inhabited by about
twenty families ; a very poor place; but looking less squalid than
might be expected, from its houses being built, as everywhere in that
country, of stone ;—square, substantial, and large dwellings, com
with village abodes elsewhere. Its position on the side of the hill is
very ﬁne, seen from below. The moment of interest, however, is in
crossing the rid above, when one is about to lose sight of Jerusalem.
towering on its ion behind, and to drop down into the village, which
lies so quietly among its olive groves and ﬁelds. This is the spot for
rememberin who it was that was so lad to come hither and rest: to
place that ri ge between himself and the doomed city, which was revel-
ing in her Pharisaic pride, ready to stone him who was sent unto her ; to
leave behind all that pride and peril, and come here to repose among
friends, and open his human aﬂ'ections to Lazarus and his sisters.

We were desired to dismount, just above Bethany, to visit what the
monks called the Tomb of Lazarus. Without supposing it to be that.
we found it interesting, as a really ancient tomb. It was so small, that few
of us went down; but I wished to see the whole of it. A few steep and
diﬂicult steps brought me down into a small vaulted chamber; and two
or three more very deep and narrow steps led to the lower chamber
where the body was laid. We questioned whether there was room
for more than one body. In exploring tombs in this country, whether
such as this, or the more picturesque and natural burial—places in the
branchin caverns of the limestone rocks, I often wished that the old
painters ad enjoyed our opport—unities,—for the sake of art as well as
truth ; and then we should have had re resentations of Lazarus coming
forth from chambers in the rock, instea of rising from such a grave as
we see dug in European churchyards. The limestone rocks, full of
caverns, now used as dwellings for men and cattle, were of old those
“ chambers of the grave” which puzzled our childhood by that name:
and it is a great privilege to have seen them, so as to understand how
the dead were said to be callin to each other; and how the stone was
rolled away from the mouth 0 the sepulchres, and how Jesus can]
have cried with a loud voice for the dead to come forth. After having
visited these places, how vivid is the picture of such scenes! How
the voice echoes through those dim “chambers of the tomb,” and 18
answered by the dead man appearing in his cerements,—appearing
from the end of the passage, or in the shadow of the recess!

 

