f

JOURNEY to mm. 303

hours and a quarter. Referring to this distance, it appears probable
that this is the desert of three days mentioned in the Scriptures to have
been crossed by the Israelites immediately after their passing the Red
Sea, and at the end of which they arrived at Marsh. In moving with
a whole nation, the march may well be supposed to have occupied
three days; and the bitter well at Marah, which was sweetened by
Moses, corresponds exactly with that of Howara. This is the usual
route to Mount Sinai, and was probably, therefore, that which the
Israelites took on their escape from Egypt.” _ A

The next day, (Wednesday, March ad.) I discovered how com-
pletely I had been possessed with the spirit of the desert, by the sort
of feeling with which I greeted a single tree. It was only a poor
thorny-acacia, low and wide-spreading: but its importance to eye and
mind cannot be judged of by those who have never seen a solitary tree
——the only vegetation within a wide horizon. As I was riding ahead,
I waved my courbash- to those behind, lest anybody should miss the
sight. But in a little while, there was much more to see. [came
upon a clump of palms ;--those bushy palms of the desert which are
to my eye so much more beautiful than the tall trimmed palms—
trimmed for date-bearing—which we see in cultivated regions, and in
all pictures of the East. In the midst of this clump was a well; and
along the deep water-course, for a considerable distance, tamarisks,
acacias and palms were scattered and clumped. As several of the
party dismounted here,I walked up the water-course, as far as I dared,
till the sight of some strange Arabs, looking at me from behind the
trees, turned me back. Soon after remounting, we came upon a string
- of muddy pools in the water-course, where our camels drank. Every-
where in the desert, we were surprised by the number of water-courses.
and the traces of torrents. We were almost hourly riding over or near
that caked soil, curlin up in large slices, which tells of a recent ﬂood.

Here, and in far dgrier parts of the desert, we saw dragon-ﬂies in
abundance ;-—a sign, probably, of the rainy season being just over. It
is curious that while no rain falls in the almost parallel and not distant
Nile Valley, there should be abundant rains in this peninsular, usually
in December and January. We saw a good many pigeons, and a few
other birds; and under almost every bush, were the holes of the little
jerboas. «

Oar place of encampment this evening was very charming. In a
nook made by mountains meeting at right angles, the vanished torrent
seemed to have spread abroad, rather than to have turned a sharp cor-
ner, while conﬁned within banks. Still, this was in a valley; only
the valley widened a little at this turn. In this nook grew palms in
clumps; and there were little strips of grass bordering the tiny runnels
in the sand ; and in the crevices of the precipitous rocks were tufts of
weeds, of a really dazzling green. The scenery the next morning was
transporting. I walked forwards for a few miles—past a prodigious
black rock which rose in grand contrast with the brown mountains;
the sea, of the deepest blue, opening out at the end of the gorge, and
bounded afar by the Egyptian hills, dressed in heavenly hues. We

