490 um“ am.

strange impression that one must be ill: and when this is added to the I

real suffering of the wayfarer in the Desert, the misery must be and

After riding three hours over this plain, and approaching the lineal
verdure so near as to see yellow walls and towers within the m
Giuseppe told me we were at Damascus. I was rather disappointed;
for I had read of the thirty miles of verdure and woods amidst which
the city stands, and 1 had eXpected much from the ride among the trees.-
The walls turned out to be those of a village; and I soon discovered
that Giuseppe called the woods Damascus, as well as the city. We
rode on still for two hours, along green tracks, past gravel pits and
verdant hollows, round villages, through cemeteries, under the shade of
glorious groves! It is truly a paradise. The ﬁelds and orchards are

one ;—-a thing Inever saw elsewhere. Out of thick crops of what a

and barley and beans rise fruit and forest trees, which do not seem to
injure the vegetation below with their shade. The abundant growth
of the walnut exceeds that of any one tree I ever saw, unless it be tht
apple in the United States. We found that, besides eXporting a W
quantity of walnuts, a large preportion of the pe0ple make them their
chief food, eating them as the Spaniards do chestnuts.-—I saw a vim
hanging out its young leaves and tendrils from a walnut, at least thirty
feet from the ground. The citron perfumes the air for many miles
round the city; and the ﬁg trees are of vast size. The pomegranate
and orange grow in thickets. There is the trickling of water on every
hand. Wherever you go, there is a trotting brook, or a full and silent
stream beside the track; and you have frequently to cross from one
vivid green meadow to another, by fording, or by little bridges. Tilt-'59
streams are all from the river beloved by N aaman of old. He tnl'ghl
well ask whether the Jordan was better than Pharpar and AbathE
rivers of Damascus. These streams, the old Pharpar and Abana.
join a little way from the city, and are called the Barrada. The
waters are carried in innumerable channels over the whole ﬁeld 0‘
verdure; they again unite in a single stream, which is lost in a lake 0r
swamp called the Lake of the Meadow.

It was not easy to mistake the city walls when at last we came '0
them. They are rather high, but not so as entirely to exclude the
view of the cupolas and minarets within. There are many towers
upon the walls; but they are, for the most part, decapitated. We rode
round at least half the city, as we were to enter by the eastern gale.
It was something to remember that this is the oldest known city in the
world. Abraham's steward came from Damascus, the man in the city
being mentioned in Genesis XV. 2. From its beauty and value.“
has in all ages been an object of contention; but whenever shatte
by sieges and foes, it has risen again; and here it is still, one of the
gems of the earth. By this, no one means that its beauty is in 5‘5
streets. Nothing can well be more ugly than they are,'with their 1008
lines of black yellow walls, unbroken but by a low ordinary 600“
here and there :—and the pavement is bad; though not so execrable as
that of Jerusalem. There are few ediﬁces which can be favorably
seen within the walls; so that the charm of Damascus is not of th"

— -l

 

 

 

l

