320 . names me.

he was to make “ ﬁshers of men;” not ﬁelds “ white unto the harvest,”
but only parched: wilds thronged withxpeople from whom he could
choose none to help him and carry out his work. That land of the
lake and ripening ﬁelds lay, not beneath him, but far away in the
future,-—-seen only in faith, and never to be entered by him: his sup-
ports must therefore be from faith and benevolence ;—from his trust In
God and his'love to his brethren; and we may hope and believe that
amidst his anxieties and tremblings, his doubts‘of himself and his shame
for the peOple under his charge, these were enough. We may trust
that he had his hours of comfort and high hope in his mountain retire-
ments. It is impossible to avoid endeavoring to enter into his mind,
when on the spot of his meditations. We cannot help “looking before
and after," from his point of view, by the light which he himself has
given us,—the glory which shines from his face even upon our time,
brightened as it is by that greater lightwhich afterwards arose “ to en-
lighten the gentiles, and glorify the people Israel.”

By his priestly rank and privile es, Moses knew the~Mysteries of
Egyptian worship. He was the-onfy one of the multitude at Sinai who
knew, what we all know, or may know, now,—-that the two chief objects
of all the heathen Mysteries were the preservation of the doctrine of the
Divine Unity, and the detection or explanation of Idolatry. The Orphic
Hymn,‘ sung by the initiated in Mysteries which were derived from
Egypt, was familiar truth to him :-—"I will . declare a secret to‘ the
initiated ; but let the doors be shut against the profane ..... I shall
utter the truth without disguise. Suﬂ'er not, therefore,-thy former pre-
judices to debar thee from that happy life which theknowledge of these
sublime truths will procure unto thee: but carefully contemplate this
divine oracle, and preserve it in purity of mind and heart. Go on, in
the right way, and contemplate the sole Governor of the world. He
is One, and of Himself Alone; and to that One all things owe their
being. He operates through all, was never seen by mortal eyes, but
does Himself see every one.” Moses knew that this sublime truth of the
Mysteries was once the common faith of men, though it was now called
Atheism, from the contempt it was supposed to cast upon the popular
gods; and that it must again become the faith of mankind, through him,
amidst all the difﬁculty and suffering which attend a return from error
to a fundamental primitive idea. He knew that before he could see
his hope fulﬁlled,—-his hope that every Hebrew would worship Jehovah
as his father Abraham had done,—-the people must go through a pro-
cess of training as painful to himself as irksome to them. But this was
the work he had to do; and he had brought them hither to begin it.

a With regard to the other part of the Sacasr,” (of the Mysteries,) says
Bishop Warburtond’ “the doctrine of theUnm, Clemens Alexandri-
nus informs us that the Egyptian mysta ogues taught it amongst their
greater secrets. ‘The Egyptians,’ says he, ‘did not use to reveal their
mysteries indiscriminately to all, nor expose their truths concerning

" Quoted by Clemens Alexandrinus and Eusebiua—See “ Warburton’s Divine
Legntion of Moses," I. 232.
1' Divine Legation of Moses, I. 223.

