Mane. 507*

Before going to our tents, which were pitched beside the Temple of
the Sun, we turned a little southwards, to the quarries, whence the
stone was drawn for these mighty ediﬁces. The whole area of these
quarries is very lar e and strikin ‘; but the great marvel of the place
is' the unremoved lock, whose gull: exceeds that of any stones we
saw in Egypt: and Ibelieve, that of any other known block in the
world. Accordin to Pecocke, this stone measures sixty-eight feet in
length, nearly eig teen feet in width, and nearly fourteen in thickness.
There are stones in one of the temple walls measuring each from sixty
to sixty-three feet in length, and of proportionate breadth and thick-
ness : and these are built into the wall at some height from the ground.
It has hem observed, however, that the ground within is higher than
that without; and some have supposed—under the great difﬁculty of
accounting for the elevated position of such masses, that they were
brought on rollers over high ground, deposited in their places, and the
earth then cutaway from them. But this does not appear to lessen the
difﬁculty where such masses lie one upon another: for we have only
tO‘choose between the two impossible tasks of lowering the under
series, and bringing the higher up hill. In truth, we know nothing,
about it; and the dealings of the ancients with such masses is a thing

uite beyond Our comprehension now.

The children about our tents wCre beautiful. I sat down, and col-
lected them round me, to see an orange divided, and then to eat it up;
and it was amusing to perceive how like they were to children at home,
—in the boldness of one,—ihe shyness of another, and the waggery of a
third. While I was thinking so, a beautiful girl stood between her
mother and me, looking from one to the other. She held by the hand
a shy little brother who would have hidden himself and lost his bit of
orange, if 1 had not kept it for him till he could be induced to 'come.
His sister new, on obtaining a smile from her mothergcame to me, and
most gracefully kissed my hand. This was not like an English child.
Whenever I have traveled abroad, I have wished that we could, in the
training of children, cease to interfere with natural language in the
way we do. I am aware that there is much to be said on both sides
of this really important question; and no one can be further than I am
from wishing to return to those demonstrations of feeling which belong
essentially to a state of barbarism. One would not wish to hear the
bowl at funerals in England: nor to see mourners tearing their clothes,
or throwing dust on their heads,—-any more than one would relish
savage laughter and capering on joyful occasions. But the reason why
one does not wish to see these barbarous signs of emotion is because
violent emotions are themselves barbarous. The chastened emotions
of the wise may be left to express themselves naturally: and their
natural expression will be simply by the countenance and the tone of
the voice. The natural language will be subdued only because the
emotions are: and there appears no reason for the suppression of ges-
ture and the training of the carria e. in relation to the small occasions
of hourly life in which express discipline is out of place. English
children are just as animated and graceful in their infancy as any little

