440 mun.

Lebanon. and down to Beyrout. My chestnut mare was the best of the
lot. I liked her much today; but I was desired not to set my heart
upon her, as there was no security for my ever seeing her again. If
an one should, within twenty hours, bribe the owner, I mi ht be put

with some sorry beast that would spoil my pleasure. xt morn-
ing, however, there she was; and we never parted again till I had to
leave the saddle for the steamer; and she carried me perfectly well the
whole way.

We were glad to have one more view of Bethlehem, which we had
not expected to see again. We rode as far south as the convent of St.
Elias; and thence Bethlehem looked well on its hill promontory, cun-
manding the plain towards Moab.

The next morning, April l2th, we set forth for Samaria.

 

CHAPTER VI.

SAMARITANS.—-SIMON MAGUS.—WAYSIDE SCENERY.—JACOB‘S WELL
AT SYCHARAAMARITAN SYNAGOGUE—SEBASTE—DJENEEN.

11' was no light event to be setting forth for Samaria,—to be leaving
the kingdom of Judah for that of Israel. What we had to bear in
mind in this expedition, was brieﬂy this.

Samaria was given to the posterity of Joseph. It was inhabited by
the tribe of Ephraim and half that of Manasseh. David and Solomon
reigned over Israel and Judah united. After them, the kingdoms were
separated, and Shechem or Sychar, now N ablons. already a very an-
cient city, was made the capital of the kingdom of Israel. We were
going now among the haunts of Elijah and Elisha; and over the places
where the worship of Baal and Ashtaroth reached its almost splendor,
under the inﬂuence of the zeal of Jezebel, who brought in the gods of
her native region to vie with the God of Israel. We were approaching
the meeting point of the religious and other ideas of the Egyptians who
came up in alliance, and the Syrians who came hither from Damascus
through the great valley of the Lebanon, sometimes in friendship, and
sometimes in enmity. To this rendezvous of peoples and ideas, the
Assyrians also came, and wrought more powerfully on the mind of the
Samaritans than even the Egyptians and the Syrians. The inhabitants
of Samaria had before been of mixed race, worship, and character of
mind; and when their ablest men were carried away to Nineveh, and
colonized in Assyria, and Assyrians were left in their places, to*inter-
marry with the native women, and establish themselves in the towns
and ﬁelds of Samaria, it is no wonder that the Jews dreaded intercourse
with them as a mongrel and half-idolatrous race, and refused to let them
assist at the re-building of the Temple at Jerusalem. If the Samaritans
wished to hold to the Law of Moses, and to worship Jehovah, and yet
were excluded from assisting to rebuild the Temple at Jerusalem, it is
no wonder that they built a temple for themselves on Mount Gerixim:

