navmo ouno. 283

morning :—my camel-driver kissed my camel repeatedly, and allured
the creature to stoop and offer its huge lips to the salute. '

From my high seat. I saw more of the deep, dim, wide interiors of
the Cairo dwellings, and of the people at their trades, than I ever did
before. This last view of the streets was the best: but there was some-
thing mournful in passing for the last time those picturesque alleys,
and imposing mosques, and busy bazaars, and the captivating groups
of oriental ﬁgures of which the eye never tires.—We passed out near
the citadel, traversed the bazaar or market which was formed outside
the gates, and entered upon the sand of the Desert.

I now thought camel riding as easy as sleeping on a feather bed.
I found afterwards how little ﬁrst impressions are worth in such a case;
but in this unexpected ease, and in the beauty about me, and the pros-
pect of the journey before me, I was very happy, when 10-! at about
two miles from the city, there were the green and blue and white
tents of the British travelers !—I supposed that they had been delayed,
and that we should pass them: but no l—our camels were made to lie
down, and we were made to dismount, on reaching the camp. This
was Bissateen; and the escort never will go further than Bissateen the
ﬁrst day, that there may be an opportunity of supplying any needful
article that may have been forgotten.-—Here we were, after all, in junc-
tion with the British travelers ;—a junction much approved by the es-
cort, as conducing to the safety of all parties. We separated no more
till we left Jerusalem, nearly two months afterwards.

We strolled about in the sunset light, bidding many a farewell to
Cairo, which stood out clear and bright in the evening glow,—its cita-
del predominant. The green levels between us and the Nile looked
ﬂatter in surface and more vivid in color than ever. Over westward
were the Pyramids, glorious against the orange sky; and near us the
palm grove belonging to Bissateen, and the wells where the women
came with their water-pots and cords. Close at hand was our camp.
with the Arabs in groups round the ﬁres, and camels lying about as if
they wanted to be sketched. We were not sorry now to have stopped
for the night within sight of Cairo and the Pyramids. ,

As I consider this day the last of our Egyptian life, I shall here
close my ﬁrst Part. It is true, we did not pass the Egyptian frontier
for some days; but our life in the Desert was so Arabian in its charac-
ter and interests as to belong to the Arabian section of this book.

Here, then, we take leave of Egypn—to me by far the most interest-
ing portion of our travels. I believe that some others did not ﬁnd it so
in the eXperience of their journey; and I hope my readers may not in
the retrospect. And yet I should like them to feel with me in regard
to the surpassing interest of Egypt, even at the cost of their relishing
the latter alf of my book less than the ﬁrst.

