m rams-rs. 171

chosen out of the Second Caste,—-the Military: but he must become a
priest before he could assume the sovereignty. It was a sufﬁcient
reason for this that the king must always thus be an instructed person,
and in fellowship with the high class who held all the dignities and
privileges of knowledge and sacred ofﬁce: but there was another reason.
The sovereign in Egypt .was assisted in his government by a council
of priests: and of course it was necessary for him to hold, in common
with his advisers, that knowledge and those secrets of Custom by which
the nation was governed. Before looking at their most interesting
existing work, it may be well to form in our minds some slight picture
of this remarkable order of men. .

Herodotus gives us information of their personal habits, which were
carefully arranged with-a view to their perfection as models before the
eyes of the people. We all know how much more necessary, and how
much more diﬁicult extreme cleanliness is in Egypt than elsewhere.
The priests shaved their heads; and their whole bodies were shaved
every three days, that, as Herodotus says, there might not, by possi-
bility, be any vermin or soil on those who served the gods."l Twice
by day, and twice by night, they Washed in cold water: and they wore
no other clothing than a dress of linen, and shoes of papyrus. They
were daily served with the sacred meats of the temples, ready cooked;
but from some articles of food, as ﬁsh, they abstained; and were com-
pelled to be very moderate in the use of wine. The food they abstained
from seems to have been such as tended to produce leprous and other
eruptive diseases. They had an extreme and mysterious horror of
beans ; never permitting them to be sown in Egypt. or touchedwhen
found grOwing wild. Whatever were their reasons were probably
those of Pythagoras in! warning his disciples against touching beans.
Some have supposed (after a hint in Aristotle) that Pythagoras meant
to warn his pupils against political action,-—the ballot vote being given
by a bean: but as the philosopher derived so much else from‘Egypt,
and as we know the strength of the reprobation of beans there, we
need only suppose him to have been more aware of the priestly reasons
for that reprobation than we are.

It need scarcely be pointed out that much more was included in
the class of sacred things among ancient nations (as among modem
half-civilized ones) than with us. Legislation, Geometry, Medicine,
every science was a sacred study among the Egyptians, and engrossed
by the priests; as was the whole of their religious philosophy. They
made laws which they enforced without rendering any reason, holding
that the people had “ nothing to do with the laws but to obey them.’
They eXplored many regions of natural science, giving the pe0ple the
results in the form of divination and magic. They held among them-
selves the doctrines of the unity of God, and of a divine moral govern-
ment, and lowered their doctrine to meet the comprehension of the
people, by deifying the attributes of God, and making local rulers of
them. The testimony of ages has proved the vice of this method of

"' Herod. II. 37.

