unusual. 387

shells, carved with Nativit subjects; and bowls, inkstands,&c.-, made
of some black substance w ich the people declared to be the hardened
mud of the Jordan. When we escaped from these people, it was very
interesting to look out over the valley, so familiar to Ruth and David;
and there was one spot, under the eastern hill, an inclosure planted
with olives, which the friars declared to be the ﬁeld where the shep-
herds were abiding when they heard the announcement of “ peace on
earth, and good will to men.”

The friars are cheerful, kind-hearted people. We saw them giving
dinner to the boys of the convent, who were merrily enjoying an abun-
dant meal. We left them some time before noon, to proceed ﬁrst to the
Convent of St. Elias, on the hill before us. We passed the tomb of
Rachel, and entered the Convent of St. Elias, where there was nothing
to see but the ordinary decorated altar, with the ordinary wretched pic-
tures over it—in this case, of Elijah and Elisha. Outside, however,
there was something really interesting. Looking eastwards, we caught
our ﬁrst view of the Dead Sea, whose blue waters showed themselves
in an interval of the hills.

Soon after, we saw, on the opposite northern ridge, a line of walls
which looked so insigniﬁcant that some of our company were unaware
at ﬁrst what it was. Mr. E. said to me, “ You know that is Jerusalem.”
I was not disappointed, as some were; for I knew that the most impos-
ing ﬁrst view was from the north,and the least from the south. Still, it
was now a mere line of wall; and next, only a single dome appeared
above it. But presently, when we could overlook the valley which In
between us and it, it became ve striking; and soon, it exceeded al
my expectations. The depth an steepness of Mount Zion now ap-
peared; and it was not wonderful that the people of Jebus sent that
scornful message to King David,* that their lame and blind should de-
fend their fort against him. Next, we were struck with the depth of
the ravines of Siloam and Hinnom, and their clustering red rocks; and
then, there was the long vast slope of Olivet beyond. From the valley,
we ascended a winding, steep, rocky road, which was to lead us in by
the Jaﬂ'a gate. I was on foot, and lagged behind, that I might not lose
by disturbance any feature of the scene. But I believe no one spoke.
We all felt that it was such a moment as we should never know again.
The black cupola of the tomb of David was conspicuous; and above
all, the great dome and surrounding buildings of the Mosque of Omar,
crowning the summit of Moriah, where ancient pilgrims used to see
the glittering roof of the temple. The bill of Mor‘iah is so much lower
than Zion as to surprise those who had read that there was once a
height of 480 feet from the Temple walls to Kedron running below; a
visible proof, if true, of the loftiness of Mount Zion. Of course, the Val-
ley of Jehoshaphat, with Kedron in its depths, was hidden from us by
the intervening city and heights; but we saw more and more of Olivet,
swelling up and away beyond the city and the ravines. The Convent
of the Ascension was conspicuous on its summit; andlower down, the

’ 2 Samuel V. 6. 8.

