m nuns mu.

porhegranates pushing in between, and the gush of waters for our
music. A group of very handsome and well-behaved women and chil.
dren stood looking at us, oﬂ'ering now and then some friendly attention.
High mountains encompassed the whole scene, and the sunset light
upon the eastern summits was gorgeous. The waters of the Bamds
had some of the whitish sulphureous tinge which is seen in the Jordan;
While the stream from Ain Fijji was almost as blue as the sky. The
currents ﬂowed along. side by side, without mingling at all, for some
way from their junction. .
knew that one might trace the whole course of the Fijji without

any great exertion. It is‘, in fact, called the shortest river in the world.
betn only one hundred yards in length. Yet it is an abundant rim
fort at space. The natives, being unwilling to believe that thiscln
beall of it, declare it to come under ground from the Euphrates—:1
went, however, to see for myself all that is really known about It-
Never did I visit such a spring. It bursts, an abundant river, from
cavernous rocks. faced with stone, and graced by a temple to the
Nymphs, which crowns the precipice. I got down, by the help of de-
tached blocks and the roots of trees, and peeped into the caverns when
the waters were welling up in the deep shadow, and rushing out to the
light. There were hewn stones lying in the river, and remains of I
comics upon the face of rock. Above these were, as I now saw, 1!”
temples of massive structure. The lower one had been vaulted. Vlih
an arched portal openingto the river. Never was heathen temple m0"!
exquisitely placed. A tall ﬁg tree, and a group of young poplars were
now growing up within the walls: and it was all shrouded in 310793
so that it could hardly be seen except from below, while it command.
the rushing stream, and was lighted by glancing reﬂections fron} 1”
waters. A villager came to me, and showed me by intelligible 13th ‘
everything I could wish to know ; and he said nothing about baksbeefh-
As I returned to the camp, I met in succession several women. leading ,
their ﬂocks of goats and kids; and men with asses laden with wot!“i
one of them spinning with the distaﬂ'. They all gave me. civil an
cheerful greetings. We seemed to have got into a little paradise of
manners, as well as beauty. .

In this sense of security,I crossed the river,the next morning. "We
our people were breaking up the camp, and followed a hill-path too 009'
siderable height, whence I could overlook the whole basin, with I”
woods and hidden waters. I was surprised to see how high up “’9
hills vegetation was carried,—there being olive- roves, and even mu
berries on ledges of the mountain where I could ardly have supp‘med
they would grow. When I afterwards saw the western side of Deb“
non, I found how much higher still men will climb and ﬁx their dwell
ings, when they obtain a return for their pains. When seeing 5"“
things, in a country where property is eminently precarious, it is elm}
and painful to think of the Irish, lounging and languishing be!“ ’3
seas full of fish, and wide spaces of uncultivated land. If they We”
set down. as these people are, empty-handed among the rocky 810?“
of Antilibanus, with nobody to look to for protection or aid, what W0“

