raol strut 'ro nun. 833

them-than one single aspiration to God—one single emotion of love or
hape for Man. Away they went—by that Opening to the right—the
tribes in their order. and “ the mixed multitude” following—all but
their leader happier than when they arrived, because as much as possi-
ble of Egyptian usage had been brought into the midst of them. For
the sake of this. they suspended for a time their cry to be led back to
Egypt, and consented to look forward, in a ﬁtful and vacillating way,
to the Promised Land. Perhaps the heaviest heart among all that
number was that of the Leader, who had found that even his brother
could turn against him. But he was still full of purpose and of faith.
The promises of the ancestral land before them were on his lips: and
in his secret heart he rejoiced that every step removed them further
from Egypt. Along that track we were now to go.

 

CHAPTER VI.
FROM SINAI T0 AKABA.

We were now about to set forth on what might be called the most
romantic part of our travels. Many European travelers have been to
Sinai, returning to Suez, or to Cairo: but few have seen Akaba: and
yet fewer Petra. It will be remembered that Burclthardt, with all

is qualiﬁcations for makin his way in the East, and all his earnest
desire to accomplish his oijems, failed to reach Akaba, and merely
passed through Petra, in haste and hazard, and under the pretence of
being a Bedoueen, under a vow to sacriﬁce a goat to Aaron. Knowing
this, and being aware that the few who had visited these places ha
believed themselves in great danger,—danger to liberty and life as well
as preperty,—we scarcely expected, to the last moment, to be able to
go to either place: and the contract with Sheikh Bishara was framed
accordingly. It was as follows. Each camel, 160 piastres (ll. 10:.)
from Cairo to Sinai. if we took the usual route to Suez. If we went
by the southern route (which we did) 165 piastres per camel. If, on
our arrival at Sinai. we found it probable that we could get to Petra
from Akaba, Bishara was to take us on to Akaba for 100 piastres per
camel. In case of hearing no favorable news at Sinai, Bishara was to
take us to Nahle, on the middle route towards Palestine, for 100 pias-
tres per camel. In case of our not falling in with an escort at Nahle,
Bishara was to take us on yet further. In this contract, all expenses
whatever for Bishara's camels and men were included.

At Sinai, we found a letter, intended for any travelers who might
arrive. which seemed to Open our way to our objects. It was from a
gentleman with whom we had made some acquaintance at Cairo: and
he wrote from Akaba, saying that the well-known Sheikh Hussein made
no difficulty about taking on travelers at that time through Petra to
Hebron: but that he would not declare his pecuniary terms. Having
been told that our party was coming on, he would be prepared to ne-

