268 am we.

called white, was of an unhealthy yellow: and, indeed, we did notsee
a healthy complexion among the whole company; nor anywhere
among women who were secluded from exercise, while pampered with
all the luxuries of eastern living. .

Besides the seven wives, a number of attendants came in to look at
us, and serve the pipes and sherbert; and a few ladies from a neigh-
boring hareem; and a party of Jewesses, with whom we had some
previous acquaintance. Mrs. Y. was compelled to withdraw her lace
veil, and then to take off her bonnet: and she was instructed that the
street was the place for her to wear her veil down, and that they ex-
pected to see her face. Then her bonnet went round, and was tried
on many heads—one merry girl wearing it long enough to surprise
many new comers with the joke. My gloves were stretched and pulled
in all manner of ways, in their attempts to thrust their large, broad brown
hands into them, one after another. But the great amusement was my
trumpet. The eldest widow, who sat next me, asked for it, and put it
to her car; when I said “ Bo!” When she had done laughing, she
put it into her next neighbor’s ear, and said “ Bo l” and in this way it
came round to me again. But in two minutes, it was asked for again,
and went round a second time—everybody laughing as loud as ever at
each “ Bo l”—and then a third time ! Could one have conceived it!
The next joke was on behalf of the Jewesses, four or ﬁve of whom sat
in a row on the deewin. Almost everybody else was pulling away
at a chibouque or a nargeeleh, and the place was one cloud of smoke.
The poor Jewesses were obliged to decline joining us; for it hap-
pened to be Saturday: they must not smoke on the Sabbath. They
were naturally much pitied: and some of the young wives did what
was possible for them. Drawing in a long breath of smoke, they
puffed it forth in the faces of the Jewesses, who opened mouth and
nostrils eagerly to receive it. Thus was the Sabbath observed, to
shouts of laughter.

A pretty little blue-eyed girl of seven was the only child we saw.
She nestled against her mother; and the mother clasped her closely,
lest we should carry her off to London. She begged we would not
wish to take her child to London, and said she “ would not sell her
for much money.” One of the wives was pointed out to us as par-
ticularly happy in the prospect of becoming a mother: and we were
taken to see the room in which she was to lie in, which was all in
readiness, though the event was not looked for for more than half a
year. She was .in the gayest spirits, and sang and danced. While
she was lounging on her cushions, I thought her the handsomest and
most graceful, as well as the happiest, of the party: but when she rose
to dance, the charm was destroyed for ever. The dancing is utterly
disgusting. A pretty J ewess of twelve years old danced. much in the
same way; but with downcast eyes and an air of modesty. While
the dancing went on, and the smoking, and drinking coffee and sher—
bet, and the singing, to the accompaniment of a tambourine, some
hideous old hags came in successively, looked and laughed, and went
away again. Some negresses made a good background to this tho-

