96 .sas'rsu am.

and some of the Hebrew traditions declare' that Pharaoh survived,aud
extended his conquests afterwards into Assyria. Thus the supposi-
tion that the Israelites marched out in the early year of the reign of
this monarch is not irreconcilable with his having reigned thirty-nine
years, as Egyptian history declares that he did. Manetho mentions
their numbers to have been eighty thousand when they were sent to
live by themselves: and it is curious on this account, and on some
others, to ﬁnd the number assigned by the Mosaic history so high as
six hundred thousand, besides women and children. Even if we sup-
pose a proportion of these to have been their fellow-slaves of the Shep-
herd Race, who, being confounded with the Hebrews by their masters.
took this opportunity of leaving the country, it gives us a high idea of
the power and population of Egypt in those days that such a body
could be abstracted from the working class of the country, and leave
behind a suﬁcient force for the achievement of such wars and arts
as we know were prosecuted after their departure?

' As our chief interest in Egypt was till lately from its being the scene
of the early life of the Hebrew nation. we are apl to look for records of
the Hebrews on the monuments wherever we go. [am convinced
that none have been found relating to their connection with Egypta—
none relating to them at all, till the long subsequent time when Jeru-
salem was conquered by Sheshonk (Shishak). In my opinion, it
would be more surprising if there had been such records than that there
are not. There is nothing in the presence of a body of slaves to require
or suggest a monumental record, unless those slaves were made so by
conquest, and had previously been a nation. The Hebrews were not
a nation, and had no dream of being so till Moses began the mighty
work of making them one. When they had a conﬁrmed national ex-
istence; when their great King Solomon had married into the line of
the Pharaohs, and their national interests came into collision with those
of Egypt, we ﬁnd them, among other nations, in the train of the cap-
tives of Sheshonk, on the walls of El-Karuac. Some Hebrew names
among those of the Egyptian monthsJ and a sprinkling of Hebrew
words in the Coptic language (which might have found their way there
afterwards), are, I believe, the only traceable memorids in Egypt of the
residence of the Israelites.

According to Pliny, one of the Ramases was on the throne of Egypt
when Troy was taken: and within thirty years of that time, King
Solomon married a daughter of one of the Pharaohs.—-How great The-
bes had long been is clear from the mention of Upper Egypt in Homer,
who says, perhaps truly enough in one sense, that it was the birthplace
of some of the Greek gods; and that its inhabitants were so wise as to

’ Pictorial History of Palestine, 1. p. 186.

1' It is probable that no one will contend for the accuracy of the numbers as they
stand in the Mosaic history; for, taking the longest term assigned for the residence
of the Hebrews in Egypg—43O yarn—end supposing the most rapid rate of in-
crease known in the world, their numbers could not have amounted to onethird of
that assigned.

2|: Sharpe’s History of Egypt, p. 37.

