muses. - . 453

their donkeys, and women carrying loads of wood. Twice we caught

limpses, through breaks in the hills, of the plain of Esdraélon or

ezreel, which we were to cross to-morrow: and beautiful it looked,
beyond the dark foreground of olive groves,—its rich levels stretching
far away in the afternoon sunshine to the blue Galilean hills which
bounded it to the north. By a steep and picturesque descent, we came
down upon Djeneen, which lies on the boundary between the hill
country and the plain of Jezreel.

The town itself is on the lowest slope of the hills; and a part of it
is impre ably fortiﬁed by a hedge of prickly pear. I was not aware
till this ay how impossible it is to do anything with such a fence. I
tried, as an experiment, to pass through a gap; and when I had suc-
ceeded in etting two steps back again, out of the clutches of the
malicious p ant, I was persuaded that no artiﬁcial chevaux defrt'se can
surpass it.—We encamped on a piece of waste ground between the
town and the cemetery, and were desired not to stray, nor to leave
about any article of property whatever. It is a poor town, with only
about eight hundred inhabitants, who have as bad a reputation as if
they lived on the Jericho road. While the tents were putting up,I
happened to be sitting beside a pile of saddles and pistols; and Alee
asked me not to leave the spot without calling him to mount guard, as
the Djeneen people pounce upon everything that is left unwatched for
a moment. I could not keep awake, after having been eight hours in
the saddle, and made a pillow of the property beside me.

When I awoke, I found that some visitors had been taking pipes and
coffee in the gentlemen’s tent: the Governor of Djeneen, and a majes-
tic-looking homicide ;—a man of the name of Abderrahman, who arrived
at home, one day of the preceding year, with a man’s head hanging
from his saddle. It was not too late now for me to see these gentry;
but I was not disposed. The Governor made a great show of interest
about our being well guarded ; and promised to send four guards who
might be entirely relied on. The horses and mules were collected and
pegged down early, and all made as secure as the bad character of the
neighborhood seemed to require. I walked out in the evening in the
dark, when the muezzin was calling to prayer from the minaret of the
town, and when all was still except when a prowling dog, or a curious
townsman, stole throu h the grass or the tombs near, to walk round
our camp. I kept wisiin call of our people; but yet I saw a good
deal of the ways of the pe0ple about, dim as the sky was, and late
the hour. I never made the effort to conquer my fatigue and go out,
without being glad that I had done so. I always learned something,
or saw something that I was glad to remember. If nothing else, there
was always the camp; and a few new faces, to add to my interior
portrait gallery.

In the morning, our best mule was gone. The four guards appeared
quite as much surprised as anybody else, and could not account for its
being released from its pegs before their eyes, and detached from the
line, and carried off, without any one of the four perceiving the theft.
Alec frankly told us his opinion. He believed that the Governor knew

