42 sasrxnn me.

had been carried away before the birth of this sister. This adventure
happened when the now gray-bearded man was young: but it invests
him with interest still, in addition to that inspired by his high character.
We passed his garden to-day, and thought it looked well,—the palace
being embosomed among palms, acacias, and the yellow-ﬂowering
mimosa; which last, when intermixed with other trees, gives a kind of
autumnal tinge to masses of dark foliage.

We were much struck by the causeway, which would be con-
sidered a vast work in England. It extends from the river bank to
the town, and thence on to the Djebel (mountain) with many limbs
from this main trunk. In direct extent, I think it can hardly be less
than two miles: but of this I am not sure. Its secondary object is to
retain the Nile water after the inundation,——the water ﬂowing in
through sluices which can be easily closed. The land is divided by
smaller embankments, within this large one, into compartments or
basins, where the most vigorous crops of wheat, clover, and millet
were ﬂourishing when we rode by. The water stands not more than
two feet deep at high N ile in the most elevated of these basins. Inside
the causeway was the canal which yielded its earth to its neighbor.
In this canal many pools remained; and the seed was only just spring-
ing in the dryest parts. In some places'l saw shaken piers, and sluices
where the unbaked brick seemed to have melted down in the water:
but the new walls and bridges appeared to be solidly constructed.—
On the banks of the causeway and canal on the south side of the town
were ﬂowering mimosas as large, we thought, as oaks of ﬁfty years
growth in England. The causeway afforded an admirable road ;—
high, broad and level. The effect was strange of entering from such
a road into such a town.

The streets had, for the most part, blank walls, brown, and rarely
perpendicular. Some sloped purposely, and some from the giving
way of the mud bricks. Many were cracked from top to bottom.
Jars were built in near the top of several of the houses, for the pigeons.
The bazaars appeared well stocked, and the business going forward
was brisk. I now began to feel the misery which every Frank woman
has to endure in the provincial towns of the Easu—the being stared at
by all eyes. The staring was not rude or offensive; but it was enough
to be very disagreeable; at least, to one who knew, as I did, that the
appearance of a woman with an uncovered face is an indecency in the
eyes of the inhabitants. At Cairo, Jerusalem and Damascus, one feels
nothing of this, and the staring is no more than we give to a Turk in
the streets of London or Liverpool: but in the provincialtowns there
is an air of amazement in the people, mingled in some places with true
Mohammedan hatred of the Christians, which it is hard to meet with
composure. The gentlemen of my party, who did not care for their
share as Christians, wondered at my uneasiness, and disapproved of
it: but Icould not help it: and though I never gave way to it so far as
to omit seeing anything on account of it, I never got over it at all, and
felt it throughout to be the greatest penalty of my Eastern travel. Yet
I would not advise any Englishwoman to alter her dress or ways. She

