ransanarrons son was me vovaoa. 31

some essential but forgotten article, as was the case with a party who
set sail with a fair wind, and were carried exulting up the river for
twenty miles, when they found they had no candles. To our surprise,
the Scotch party appeared at the late dinner on Tuesday; and when
we accompanied the ladies to their rooms afterwards, to see the shady
honnets they were making for tropical wear, we found they were
waiting for the washerman, who had disappointed them of their clothes.
So we left the hotel before them.

It was bright moonlight when we set off for Boolik,—a curious
cavalcade. Of course, we were on donkeys; as were such of our
goods as had not been removed before. The donkey boys carried—
one, my desk, another, the arrow-root, and a third, the chocolate. It
was a merry ride, under the acacias, whose ﬂickering shadows were
cast across the road by the clear moon. The tea-things were set in
the cabin when we arrived. There was less confusion on board than
might have been expected; and we had a comfortable night.

Our crew consisted of fourteen, including the Rais. Of these, fave
were N ubians, and the rest Cairenes. We had besides, our dragoman,
Alec, and his assistant, Hasan; and the cook,--a' grotesque and amus-
ing personage. The hire of the boat and crew, who provided then-
selves with food, was 401. per month. Times are changed since some
acquaintance of ours went up to the Second Cataract, two years since.
for 121. Those of our. crew who aﬂ'orded us the most amusement
were some of the Cairenes: but we liked best the quiet and peaoeahle
Nubians. When we set off the whole crew messed together, sitting-
on their haunches in a circle round their pan of lentile or dourrha pot-
tage. But before we returned, the Cairenes had all quarreled; and
the ﬁve N ubians were eating together, as amicably as ever, while each
Cairene was picking his bread by himself. ~

When I came on deck in the morning, I found thatwe were not to
start till the afternoon, and that we must put up with extraordinary
confusion till then. There was abundant employment for us all, how-
ever, and after breakfast, the gentlemenwent up to the city, to make
some more purchases, and Mrs. Y. and I sat on deck, under the awn-
ing, making a curtain for the cabin, ‘a table-cover, «ice. The doings of
the Arabs on shore were amusing and interesting enough. Am
others, I saw a blind man bringing, as he would say, his donkey down
to drink; but the donkey led the man. The creature went cat‘Efully
down the steep and rough bank, and the man followed, keeping his
hands on its hind quarters, and scarcely making a false step. The
Scotch party came down, in the course of the morning, and presently
put 06, and went full sail up the river. The American boat was, I
believe, already gone. Soon after three, Aleeﬁannounced that the last
crate of fowls was on board; the signal was given, and away we went.

