nm'r mun. 295

we encamped in the midst of a very wide valley, or plain, where hills
rose in the east, purple in the sunset. From a distant rising ground,
the encampment looked beautiful—the green and white tents, and the
camels lying round them, diminished almost to dots, and the smoke
from the ﬁres of the Arabs rising like blue waving threads. One of
the clergymen made an admirable colored sketch of this, which con-
veyed, to my eye, a better idea of the vast expanse of a Desert valley,
and the smallness of a large encampment, than any illustration I ever
met with in books. The coloring would not be believed in England;
but it was very true. On the Friday, when the evening was coming
on, our Shaikh showed us what Arab running is. He ran before us
for some miles, crossing occasionally from side to side, on the look
out for some pool or well which he expected to ﬁnd. His running
appeared like a rather lazy trot till his diminishing ﬁgure proved to us
how fast he got over the ground. He seemed to lose no breath, and
feel no fatigue; and when we came near enough for nods and'signs,
his bright genial face was all smiles and cheerfulness. He found the
pool‘at last; but a party of Arabs were clustered about it. They were
friends of his, and they kissed very heartily. Some of our escort drank
a little of the water; but it looked like muddy milk, and was nearly
exhausted by the ﬁrst comers; so that we all preferred what was in
our water skins. a

It may be as well to give here the order of our day.—-of an average
day,—for the amusement of those who may wish to know what life in
the Desert is like.

We four carried with us two tents, and two servants besides our
escort. In the larger tent we dined and spent the evening; and there
Mrs. Y. and I slept. In the smaller tent, the gentlemen slept and
wrote their journals. Our servants were Alec, the dragoman, and
Abasis the cook,—a young man from Cairo, who served us faithfully,
and satisﬁed us in every respect. He spoke little English, but under-
stood us suﬁiciently. His English speech amused us very much.
He made “Very well” go almost as far as our “ Bono” and “ Non
bono” in Egypt. These two words seemed all that he could command
under the emotions of parting, when the time at last came for saying
farewell.

“ Now, Abasis, we must say good-by.”

“ Very well.”

“ I shall not forget you, Abasis. I shall tell my friends of you, if
they come to Egypt, that you may serve them as well as you have
served us.”

“ Very well.”

“ You will not forget us, Abasis."

“ Very well,—no."

“ Here is a little present for you. If you like this handkerchief for
a turban, you will wear it, and remember me.”

“ Very well."

And all this time, his heart was full, while his words were so cool.
He carried under his charge what was called the Cook’s tent,—a small

