144 ems-ax ms.

of Philm to Ptolemy Physcon, entreating him to .lessen the concourse of
people of rank and strangers, who lived on the hospitality of the priests
while there. The answer of the king, including an order to the govern-
ment of the Theba'id not to permit the priests to be thus encroached
Upon, was painted on the same pedestal. From the remaining pillar a
colonnade extends, continuous on the west side, to the great propyla.
The thirty pillars of this western corridor are all unlike each other in
the sprouting of their capitals, while the outline is symmetrical enough
to avoid oﬂ'ence to the e e. All the vegetation represented is indige-
nous; the diﬁ'erent kind; of palms, water-plants, acacia, tobacco, &c.,
aﬂ'ording a sufﬁcient variet . Some of the shafts bear hieroglyphic
inscriptions, and some are p ain. The intercolumnar screens, and the
walls behind the pillars, are covered with sculptures. As I have men-
tioned before, this colonnade is so curved as to prevent the landing-
place and the portal of the pr'opyla being seen from each other—a great
blemish in modern eyes. The eastern colonnade is unﬁnished, and the
part next the river is in ruins; amidst which ruins stands the little tem-
ples of Esculapius—of course a modern affair. Its Greek dedication

ars the name of the ﬁfth Ptolemy. Of the sixteen pillars standing of
the eastern colonnade, few have ﬁnished capitals, and their shafts and
the wall behind are plain. The avenue between the two rows of
columns is cruelly spoiled with the ruins of a- mud village, among
which lie two headless sphinxes.

We now come to the great propylon, whose massive pyramidal tow-
ers are the ﬁrst object seen in coming up the river. These towers are
built upon and beside the ancient gateway of the time of the Pharaohs.
Champollion found the name of Nectanebo on this portal, and on a small
chapel dedicated to Athor, in the avenue. These are the only ancient
remains, the rest of the great old temple having been overthrown by the
Persians, who were scandalized at the idea of worship being carried on
anywhere but in the open air. The Ptolemies rebuilt the temple, pre-
serving the Egyptian style much more carefully than in most of their
ediﬁces. This old gateway looks very venerable, with its antique
winged globe on the cornice. A smaller entrance through the great pro-
pylon—a portal on the left (west hand of the ancient one, leads to the
temple I mentioned as apprOprtated to the welcome of Horus. This
temple is built separately, surrounded by pillars bearing the head of
Isis for their capitals, and merely joined on to the propyla at each ex-
tremity by a gateway.

This temple forming the western side of the area within the great
propylan, a row of chambers forms the eastern side. These chambers
are small—few of them sculptured—and their wall, looking upon the
area, rough and unﬁnished. The ten columns of its corridor answer
to the seven of the opposite temple of Horus—such is the want of sym-
metry herel

Passing throu h this area, and the gate of the inner and smaller pro-
pylon, we enter t a court of the ten celebrated colossal columns. These
columns are in airs as to their design, but not in their position! They
support the mo which covers half the court, the other half of which is

