manner To sum. ‘ 30?

suppose the inscriptions in Wadee‘Mokatteb and other places to record
the names and blessings of pilgrims. If so, it is as desirable as ever
.to ﬁnd a key ‘to this character, that we may learn what unknown peo-
zple,-—orfpssple who wrote in an unknown character,—shared, in for-
mer days, the Jewish and Christian faith.—In the transactions of the
Royal Society, a large number .(I think 187) of these inscriptions are
published, among which are nine Greek and one Latin ;‘ but these do
not help us to assign the rest to their origin. Dr. Lepsius conjec-
tures these to be the work of Shepherds: but one does not see why,
in that case, they should be found only in the way to sacred localities;
——for instance, as far as Rephidim and El Erbayn at the foot of Horeb,
and no higher up the Wadee el Ledja.

Among these legends, and in many another spot hereabouts, are
drawings on the rock which may well be the work of Bedoueen goat-
herds. They are scratches, rather than carvings, of camels, goats and
gazelles;—-hugely-laden, #crooked camels,—tumble-down goats, and
most clumsy or scraggy gazelles. They are amusing, but not at all
mysterious;

In the afternoon, we found the tufts of desert shrubs becoming thicker
and larger; the tamarisks expanded into trees, and in an angle of the
valley, unpruned palms showed themselves before us. Bishara and the
dragomen began to look about for a resting-place; and they told us we
were entering Wadee Feiran. As we turned that angle, we came upon
inclosures;—-the ﬁrst we had seen since leaving the Wells of Moses.
Thick palm groves now rose before us; and it was pleasant to ride in
among them, past walls and little ﬂocks of goats tended by Arabs, over
patches of damp soil, and under the declivities of Mount Serbal. Ser-
bal rose grandly over all ; and it let down little streamlets, along
whose margin fresh grass ran in lines beside the tracks.-—In one spot,
there was seen a ﬁne sweep of the mountain ridge, where it is natural
for those who believe this to have been the mountain of the Law, to
see in vision the gathering of the clouds and the ﬂashing of the
lightnings. But there is no plain below from which the Hebrew mul-
titude could have beheld this; nor is there anywhere round the menu-
tain a space which could afford the spectacle to any large number of
people.——l shall not enter upon the controversy about the spot of the
giving of the Law. I am convinced that there is no evidence which
can decide the matter; and that there never can be, because the pre-
mises can never be ﬁxed. While everybody believes. the general
fact of the leading of the Hebrews to this region, in order to prepare
them for their future nationality, no one can say how much of the
details is strictly historical, and how much legendary. The numbers
and dates of the narrative are regarded by all the learned, I believe, as
untenable; as given, after the Hebrew manner, in the large, and in
established terms, underst by Hebrew hearers, but altogether mis-
leading to those who would take them as literally as if they had been
assigned after, instead of before, the origin of true history. hare-d
men, who are up to the mark of historical science in our day, know
' that the Hebrews and their followers could not have amounted to two

