moo-emu. 118

CHAPTER X.
ABOO-SIMBIL—EGYPTIAN CONCEPTIONS or THE sons.

Tn]: temples of Aboo-Simbil are both of the time-of Ramases II.;--
iu the earlier part of the great Third Period. Nothing more interesting
than these temples is to be found beyond the limits of Thebes.

I went u to the smaller temple early in the morning. Of the six
statues of e facade, the two in the centre represent Athor, whose calm
and gentle face is surmounted by the usual crown,—the moon contained
within the cow’s home. On entering the portal in the rock, I found
myself in s hall where there was plenty to look at, though the ﬁxes
lightened by the Arabs have blackened the walls in some places, and
the whole is, as I need not say, very old,—nearly 1400 3.0. This ear
trance hall is supported by six square pillars, all of which bear the head
of Athor on the front face of their capitals, the other three faces being
occupied with sculptures, once gayly painted, and still showing blue,
red and yellow colors. On the walls here were the men of the old
military caste, in their defensive armor ;—a sort of cuirass of chain
armor,—red links on a yellow ground: and their brethren the civilians,
in red frocks: and the women in tight yellow garments, with red sashes
tied-in front. Most of the ﬁgures are represented in the act of bringing
offerings to the gods: but on either side the door, the hero Ramases is
holding by the hair a captive who is on one knee, and looks up,—-'ut
the one instance with a complete negro face; in the other, with a face
certainly neither Egyptian nor negro, and whose chin ends in a peaked
beard. Here we have the conquests of the .hero in upper Africa, and
probably in Asia. He holds up his falchion, as if about to strike;
but the goddess behind him lifts her hand, as if in intercession, while
Osiris, in front, holds forth the great knife, as if to command the slaugh»
ter. When Osiris carries, as here, the emblems of the crazier and the
ﬂagellum or whip, he is present in his function of Judge: and here, ac-
cordingly, we see him deciding the fate of the nations conquered by
Bamsses.

Within this outer hall is a transverse corridor, ending in two rude
chambers, where I found nothing but bats. But beyond the corridor
lies the sacred chamber, the shrine of the deity. There she is, in the
form of the crowned head of s cowr—her emblematic disk being be-
tween the horns. In another part, she stands, as a cow, in a boat sur-
rounded by water plants,—the king and queen bringing offerings to this
“ Lady of Aboshek, the foreign land.” We shall meet with Athor fre-
quently as “ Lady of the West; " and therefore as the morning star; as
the welcomer of the Sun, at the end of his course; and as the mild and
transient Night, which is quite adiﬂ’erent personage from the stern and
ﬁxed Night of Chaos. As possessor or guardian of the West, Athor

8

