106 Imam ms.

of the temple which was dedicated by this Osirei to his father, Ramases
L, was ﬁnished by the illustrious grandson of the latter, who put in the
sculptures. Among these sculptures is one where his grandfather
stand-s behind the gods, bearing the insignia of Osiris, and watching
the introduction and homage of his grandson to the gods. The legend
over him declares him to he “ Ramases deceased, esteemed by the great
God, &c. &c.” Elsewhere in the same apartment, this king and Osirei,
as well as the gods, are receiving the pious offerings of the great Ra-
mases. The faces here are astonishingly preserved, and they have a
full measure of the sim licity and sweetness of the old Egyptian type
of countenance. I thin there can be no doubt of the elegance of this
temple-palace, in comparison with those of later date.

Some barbarians, called Charles andJane Tilt, have cut and blacked
their names and the date of their visit in large on some of the sacred
. places of this temple. As they have thought ﬁt to publish their own
names and adventure in a mischievous manner, they have no right to
object to a republication which may be useful in the way of warning to
others. '

I was delighted to ﬁnd here many of the prevalent symbolical forms
—here, in this very ancient temple. The boat which we ﬁnd every-
where had at each end the ﬁnest ram's head I had seen. I was pleased
to meet with grapes among the offerings. Those which I had seen at
Kalib’sheh‘ with leaves and tendrils, were modern. But here were
bunches of undeniable grapes. I saw also the elegant lamp I mentioned
before, and the lion-shaped bier. The globe and asps were on the cor-
nices, and the ceiling of the portal was beautiful—cartouches and stars
on a blue ground.

These were our studies durin our ﬁrst day at Thebes. These
palaces, built for the busy and illu rious living, were to us like tombs,
for there was a spirit of death within and around them all. Not onl
the inmates had passed away, but the deeds, the modes of life, the ob-
jects of reverence, pride and desire. But to-morrow we were to pene-
trate deeper into the region of the dead. We were to explore some of
the wonders of the Death valley of Thebes.

 

CHAPTER XV.

THEBES.—OLD EGYPTIAN VIEWS OF DEATH AND HEREAFTER—THE
PRIESTS.—INTERMENTS.—TOMB OF OSIREI.

THE most striking thing at Thebes is perhaps the evidence on every
hand of the importance to the old Egyptian mind of the state of the
dead. To the philosopher there is nothing surprising in this; for he
knows that it must be so to an infant race, ineXperienced in the history
of man, and unlearned as to the powers of the human mind, and the
relative value of its aims. Everywhere the mind of man is active, un-
satisﬁed, and aspiring; and while he knows so little of the world he lives

