m Prawns. 221

it has been chipped by those who were in search of the air-holes. The
prodigious portcullises of granite in the passage were more visible to
us in going down than in ascending: and how they came there was
an oppressive speculation in itself. It must be remembered that this
structure, with its wonderful art and bewilderin grandeur, was the
work of the men of ﬁve thousand years ago. It' ates from the earlier
part of the First Period, and. is’the oldest monument known to exist in
the world. If this is, to us, the beginning of the Arts—this, which
manifests the existence of so many appliances of art unknown to us
now, how are we to speculate on what went before? and how com-
pletely do we ﬁnd ourselves thrown out in all ournotions of the dura-
tion of the human race!

On returning, two of our party had had enough'of Pyramid search-
ing. I and another had not; and we proceeded to the Queen’s Cham-
ber, along the passage, above which we had ascended to the King’s.
This assage was not so low as we had expected. It only required us
to w k stooping. The chief interest about the Queen’s Chamber is
from its being under the apex of the Pyramid; which the King’s is
not. Its ceilin is on this account pointed, like the great entrance. ‘
There are also ﬁve small, rough chambers above it, evidently put there
to lessen the superincumbent weight. Though this chamber is smaller
than the King’s, it seems to be distinguished by being under the apex;
and also by a niche, rather elaborately wrought. A pit has been opened
below this niche, bysearchers, and the rubbish thrown into a corner.
Sir G. Wilkinson wishes that, if further search is made here for the
king’s body, it should be by looking under this niche. M great de-
sirewould be to have the Pyramid explored down to the owest part
where any traces of works could be found. Works carried down so
low must have some purpose; and it might be well worth our while to
discover what. It is not satisfactory to my mind to suppose the “sub-
terranean structures” intended merely to let the workmen out, after
they had closed the upper passage with its fgranite portcullis. The
great difﬁculty, in exploring the ' yramid—a ter the expense and toil
of tting to work at all—is from the wonderful way in which these
ancientzbuilders closed the passages. Their huge granite portcullises,
blocking up the way, are almost insuperable. It is hard to distinguish
them from other blocks, and to guess when there is a passage behind;
and then it is ve hard to get round them. I have astrong impres-
sion myself that, a ter all the wonders our pains-taking and disinterested
antiquarian travelers have laid Open, there is much more behind, and
that the exploration of the Pyramid is only just begun. If it be true
that some one ﬁred a pocket-pistol within the Pyramid, and that the
echoes were countless—the reverberation going on for an astonishin
length of time—it seems as if the ediﬁce might be honey-combed wit
chambers. But for these unmanageable granite portcullises, what-
mi ht we not learn! a

t becomes us, however, to be grateful for what we have learned.
Colonel Howard Vyse has laid the world under great obligations by his
generous and laborious exertions. He made, among many discoveries,

