376 turns ml.

and much encumbered with stones. The myriads of little locusts, or
grasshoppers, which swarmed for miles, were beyond belief. They
lay, like clusters of bees, on the grass, covering it for large spaces; and
they ﬁlled the air, for about a foot above the ground, by Jumping as we
passed. I may safely say I never saw so many living creatures in the
same space he ore; for it seems to me that the goats and frogs in an
American swamp are not to be compared.to these brown locusts for
multitude.

We encamped about three o’clock,at a distance of four or ﬁve hours
from Hebron. The place chosen was a level plot of weedy and stony
ground among the hills which we were to cross in the morning. It
was high ground, as we found by the cold: and it was not thought
very safe, as we learned by the rumors of wild Bedoueens. After ser-
vice, some of the gentlemen eXplored the site, and were reasonably
convinced that a town of considerable size had stood here. We had
already passed one, called now El Arat, supposed to be the Aroer of
Scripture; of which there remains a large building on a height, two
standing columns, and mounds of stones. Here already was another :
and for some days to come we were to be more and more impressed
with wonder at the ma itude and number of the remains we had to
pass. Nothing that I ave seen in other countries gives an idea of
such a thickly settled territory as this part of Palestine must once have
been. From the frontier to Jerusalem, the towns must have been in
sight of one another, I should think all the way; and in some places,
many must have been in view at once. And such ﬁne-looking places
too! No brick,—no mud,—no rnere piles of rough stones from the
hill sides: but square houses of hewn stone, with ﬂat roofs, rising in
tiers on the slope of the hill, or crowning its summit, or set within an
angle of the terraced heights.

The remains round our encampment consisted of long lines of foun-
dations, and numberless inclosure walls, almost razed to the ground;
and the overthrown columns of three‘ediﬁces; and the oriﬁce of a sub-
stantially built well, with a hole in the rim, into which the pin-of the
covering-stone no doubt once ﬁtted. There were caverns in the lime-
stone rock, under some of the overthrown ediﬁces. These caverns
were once their vaults, but are now used to bed the goats. Such a site
was the very place for scorpions; and two were immediately found.

All the next day we continually saw gaping wells beside our path,
and under every angle of the hills where they were likely to be kept
ﬁlled. They were not now carefully covered, with a stone so massive
as that the daughters of the atriarchs could not roll it away :—the
country is too scantily peopled) now for such care: but we could still
see turbaned men sitting beside the Opening; and cattle crowding, and
sheep and goats led to it. Our way at ﬁrst to-day lay over the hills
where there were no visible tracks. These hill sides were very stony;
but they also abounded in shrubs and grass and weeds, whereon hung
the pearly dew-drops which look so beautiful to those who come here
by way of the Desert. It was all very like home,—like the wilder

