372 nouns ms.

should be very long, indeed, before he heard the last of it. He repeated
his threat very emphatically, and withdrew. We did not believe he
would desert us; but, if he did, we -imagined that some Arabs near
would be happy to take his place, in order to get his money. The
day before, a party of Bedoueens, armedand formidable looking, had
appeared from behind the sand hills; and it seemed doubtful for a 'few
minutes whetherwe were to have peace or war. But, after a conference,
there was a prodigious kissing all round, and the strangers vanished.
Still, the impression was conveyed to us that these men were not satia-
ﬁed, the cause of their discontent bei the same as in the former case;
that Hussein was carrying us throng their territory without payin
tribute. There was reason to believe they were now not far off; anﬁ
we thought it probable that they would be thankful to convey us to
Hebron for Hussein’s pay. There was no occasion to ask them, how-
ever. In the morning, there was Hussein, smoking away as grandly
as ever!

This was the morning of Sunday, March 28th,—a memorable day
in the history of our journey; for it was that of entering upon the
Holy Land. It had been agreed ,over night that we should start early,
and stop early, in order to have service. We were new about four
hours from the frontier; and our faculties seemed sharpened to note
every object that met our eyes on these outskirts of the most sacred
region on the earth's surface. How well I remember what the scene
- was at six o’clock, when Mrs. Y. and I were walking in the early sun,
on a spit of sand, to dry our feet, wet with the dewy grass which had
been our carpet at breakfast! There we were comparing the impres-
sions of our childhood about the story of Jesus, and the emotions and
passions that history had excited in us; and we saw, the while, the
breaking up of the camp, and the leading forth of the camels which
were soon to set us down on his native soil, and possibly near some of
his haunts. Our course was through thin pasture ; very thin, the
ground being strewn with stones. The swelling hills here some re-
semblance to the Scotch lowlands, but were more interrupted by water-
courses. A few camels were grazing, and many ﬂocks: a black en-
campment of Arabs was on a distant slope, and we met a woman here
and there, leading the goats. To the east were the blue mountains
which enclosed the Dead Sea. N 0 one could tell the exact moment of
crossing the frontier; but it was just after ten when we were assured
that we had entered Palestine.

