ALEXANDRIA. 19

spoken to by a departing ship-mate, and, looking up, saw a Greek
standing at my elbow, an Arab ﬁlling up the door-way, and a Nubian
nursemaid coming in for a crying child—Before ten o’clock, all was
comparatively quiet—the Square clear of omnibuses, camels, and the
glare of torches, and our hotel no longer a scene'of crowding and con-
fusion. There was nothing to prevent our having a good night, in
preparation for our ﬁrst day of Africansight-seeing.

When I looked out of my window early the next morning, I saw, at
the moment, nothing peculiarly African. The Frank Square is spa-
cious, and the houses large; but they would be considered shabby and
ugly anywhere else. The consular ﬂag-staves on the roofs strike the
eye; and the ﬂood of brilliant sun-light from behind the minaret made
the morning as little like England in November as could well be.
Presently, however, a string of camels passed through the square,
pacing noiselessly along. I thought them then, as I think them now,
after a long'acquaintanee with them, the least agreeable brutes I know.
Nothing can be uglier, unless it be the ostrich; which is ludicrously
like the camel, in form, gait and expression of face. The patience of
the camel, so celebrated in books, is what I never had the pleasure of
seeing. So impatient a beast I do not know—growling, groaning and
fretting whenever asked to do or bear anything—looking on such oc-
casions as if it longed to bite, if only it dared. Its malignant eXpression
of face is lost in pictures: but it may be seen whenever one looks for
it. The mingled expression of spite, fear and hopelessness in the face
of the camel always gave me the impression of its being, or feeli
itself, a damned animal. I wonder some of the old painters of hell d'
not put a camel into their foreground, and make a traditional emblem
of it. It is true, the Arab loves his own camel, kisses its lips, hugs its
neck, calls it his darling and his jewel, and declares he loves it exactly
as he loves his eldest son: but it does not appear that any man’s all'ec-
tion extends beyond his own particular camel, which is truly, for its
services, an inestimable treasure to him. He is moved to kick and
curse at any but the domestic member of the species, as he would be
by the perverseness and spite of any other ilLtempered creature. The
one virtue of the camel is its ability to work without water; but, out of
the desert, I hardly think that any rider would exchange the willin ,
intelligent and proud service of the horse for that of the camel, whic
objects to everything, and will do no service but under the compulsion
of its own fears.

When the camels had passed, some women entered the square from
diﬁ'erent openings. I was surprised to see their faces hardly covered.
They pulled their hit of blue rag over, or half over, their faces when
any one approached them, as a matter of form; but in Alexandria, at
least, we could generally get a sight of any face we had a mind to see;
excepting, of course, those of mounted ladies. As we went up the
country, we found the women more and more closely veiled, to the
borders of Nubia, where we were again favored with a sight of the fe-
male countenance.

The next sight in the square was a hareem, going out for a ride—a

