70 ass-rum urn.

little ancient temple of Kneph is gone; and another, and the upper
portion of the Nilometer were pulled down, some years since, to supply
building stone for an oﬂicial’s palace at Aswan. We saw, at the Nilo-
meter, sculptured stones built in among rough ones,——some being up-
side down,—some set on end. And this is all we could make out of
this ediﬁce. There is a granite gateway of the time of Alexander; and
this is the only erect work of any interest.-—There is a statue of red
granite, with the Osiride emblems ;-—a mean and uncouth image, in
comparison with most that we saw. Some slender and broken granite
pillars lie about, a little to the north of the gateway: and one of them
' bears a sculptured cross; which shows that they were part of 3 Chris-
tian temple. -

The people on the island are Nubians. Many of their faces, as well
as their forms, are ﬁne: and they have the same well-fed and healthy
appearance as we observe among the people generally, all along the
great valley, and especially in the Nubian part of it. Some of the chil-
dren were naked; some had ragged clothing; and many were dressed
in substantial garments, though of the dusty or brown colors which
convey an impression of dirt to an English eye. The children’s hair
was shining, even dripping with the castor-oil which was to meet our
senses everywhere in Nubia.

Our Scotch friends called while we were at breakfast, and offered us
their small boat for an expedition to Philce. Much as I longed to see
Philoe, I was startled at the idea of going by water in a small boat, as a
mere morning trip: and I was sorry to see our saddles put away, as it
appeared to me more practicable to go by the shorter way of the desert,
taking a boat from Mahatta. If we had known what we soon learned
about the water passage, we should not have dreamed of such an adven-
ture. My next uneasiness was at ﬁnding that we were going with only
Arab rowers, without an interpreter. It certainly was foolish; but the
local Rais had arranged the affair; and it was not for us to dispute the
wisdom of the man who must know best. I am glad we went; for we
obtained admirable views of this extraordinary part of the river, at more
leisure, and with more freedom than when ascending the Cataract in
our kandjia, amidst the hubbub of a hundred natives.

The wear of the rocks by thousands of annual inundations exhibits
singular eﬂ'ects, in holes, unaccountable ﬁssures, grotesque outlines, and
gigantic piling up of blocks. The last deposit of soil on the slopes of
smooth stones, and in every recess and crevice, reminded me of the odd
tillage one sees in Switzerland, where a miniature ﬁeld is made on the
top of a boulder, by conﬁning the deposited earth with a row of stones.
And when we were driven to land, in the course of the morning, it was
striking to see in what small and parched recesses a few feet of millet
and vetches were grown, where the soil would yield anything. The
deposit was always graduated, always in layers, however little there
might be of it. In some stones in the middle of the current, there were
wrought grooves, and holes for wedges; for what purpose, and whether
these stones were always in the middle of the current, let those say
who can. They looked like a preparation for the erection of colossal

