412 ass-nan LIFE.

But we saw a procession of Derweeshes going to it. The Santana
belonging to this mosque are very great men, indeed, the most powerful
in Jerusalem ;—such great men that they do nothing whatever, and are
fed by corn and other good things given them by the‘ people, on the
compulsion of their holiness. Their horses, which awaited them near,
were sleek, handsome creatures ; and their masters looked much like
other well-dressed Mohammedans. They walked in a kind of pro-
cession, with rude music, and entered the mosque.-—We were told that
there was one place in the same building which we might see :—the
Caenaculum: the room where Jesus supped with his disciples. It is
a very large upper room, dim and cheerless, with a niche at one end.
where the Christians occasionally perform mass.-—The place is sup-
posed to be an ancient Christianwchurch: but it cannot be what the
legend declares it, as all the buildings on the heights of Zion were razed
at the time of the destruction of Jerusalem. We could not give any
more belief to the House of Caiaphas which stands near,—a substan-
tial, blank stone building.

The Armenian Convent, close at hand, has a most gorgeous chapel,
but little that is interesting, and much that is painful to see. In Italy,
I found the Christian mythology and superstitious observances very
distressing to witness : but I could have had no idea how much more
painful the spectacle is in Palestine. It is not merely that the sim-
plicity of the actual teachings of Christ comes out most strikingly on
the spot where he lived and taught ; and that the singleness of his doc-
trine, and the pure monotheism of his own ideas are evident as the
daylight to those who have traveled with the Hebrews from Egypt
hither, and read their history by local lights, but that in Egypt we had
seen the origin of the mythology and superstitions which were engrafted
upon Christianity at Alexandria, and in Greece and Rome, and which
debase the religion of Christ at this day. We had seen in Egypt and
in the Greek philosophy which was thence derived, ages before the
time of Christ, those allegorical fables of Osiris and his nature and
ofﬁces, of the descent of the Supreme on earth in a ﬂeshy form, and
thedeifying or sanctiﬁcatiOn of intercessors which were unhappily,
but very naturally, connected with the simple teachings of Christ by
the Platonizing converts of various countries, at an early period. and
which to this day deform and vitiate the gospel in countries which yet
keep clear of the Open idolatries of the Greek and Latin Churches.
The vitiation of the teachings of Christ anywhere, and under the least
oﬂ'ensive outward observance, is mournful encugh: but here, while
Christ, and nature, and history all bid us reverently preserve the purity
and simplicity of his teachings, it is truly revolting to meet every-
where, in its extremestrankness, the superstition which the interfusion
of the old Egyptian element has caused. Here we have, in these
Christian churches, the wrathful “jealous God" of the old Hebrews,
together with the propitiating Osiris, the malignant 'I‘ypho, the Hades,
the Purgatory, and the incarnations of the Egyptians and their disciple
Pythagoras ; the Logos of the Platonists, the incompatible resurrection
and immortality of opposing schools, all mingled together and pro-

