Hosanna. 242

Mohammedan one, with its air of freedom, peace, and welcome to all
the faithful. I felt myself an intruder there, in a retreat which should
be kept sacred for those who go to it, not as a church, but as a religious
home.—Slill, good as it seems for the people to be there, and happy as
appears the provision for them, they are sighing,as people everywhere
are always sighing, for the return of their golden age. This reverting pro-
pensity seems common to all men; and every race seems to have had its

lden age. Our dragoman pointed to a medallion in the interior, three
ﬁrst in diameter, and told us that in Sultaun Hasan’s time, “bread of the
size of that was to be had for a para.”—-We reached this interior from
the platform, through a magniﬁcent porthl of cast metal of beautiful
pattern. In the centre of the vast, chamber was the Sultaun’s tomb,
railed round. On the tomb lay a tattered, but very ﬁne old copy of the
Kurin; and some Syrian lamps were beside it. The decorations of the
walls and corners must once have been magniﬁcent, some elaborate
wood carving remaining which shows traces of gilding and color. The
best account of a mosque that I know is that of Mr. Milnes in his
“ Palm Leaves ;” a book, the value and beauty of which can be appre-
ciated only during or after a visit to the East. M his poem of “ the
Mosque" may not have met the eye, or ﬁxed the attention, of all my
readers, I venture to give part of it here. Any one who is acquainted
with it will not be sorry to fall in with it again :—

“A simple unpartitioned room,—
Surmounted by an ample dome,
Or, in some lands that favored lie,
With centre open to the sky;
But roofed with arched Cloisters round,
That mark the consecrated hound, ‘
And shade the niche to Mekkeh turned,
By which two massive lights are burned;
With pulpit whence the sacred word
Expounded on great days is heard;
With lbuntains fresh, where ere they pray,
Men wash the soil of earth away;
With shining minaret, thin and high,
From whose ﬁne trellised balcony,
Announcement of the hours of prayer
ls uttered to the silent air;
Such is the Mosque——the holy place,
Where faithful men of every race,
Meet at their ease and face to face.

“Notthat the power of God is here
More manifest, or more to fear;
Not that the glory of his face
Is circumscribed by any space;

But that, as men are wontto meet

In court or chamber, mart or street,
For purposes of gain or pleasure,
For friendliness or social leisure,—
So for the greatest of all ends

To which intelligence extends,

The worship of the Lord, whose will
Created and sustains us still,

