mums. . 189

People on the spot have no notion of reverence for these remains.
Travelers who were at Thebes in 1827 tell us how‘all the ﬁres wanted
by themselves and their attendants were made of the sycamore wood
of the mummy-cases/’ Abdallatif"I tells us how, in his time (the 12th
century) the country people stripped the mummies of whatever .was of
substance sufﬁcient to make garments; and sold the rags of the mum-
my cloth to the paper-makers, to make paper for the use of the grocers.
He speaks of some of the sycamore wood being then rotten; but some
sound, and ﬁt for use.-—One extraordinary variety'of burial he tells us
of, on the word of one on whom he could rely. This friend of his
was once searching for treasure with some companions, in the tombs
at Geezeh, when they came upon a jar carefully sealed. They opened
it, found it contained honey, and began to eat. Presently one of
the party perceived a hair sticking to his ﬁnger. Drawing it out, he
found it belonged to the body of an infant which was preserved in the
honey. The body was in good condition, and adorned with jewels
and rich ornaments. .7 - . .

What care to preserve the earthy frame! and with what a result!
The three thousand years of purgatory of many of these ’Theban
sleepers is now about expiring. If their faith was a true one, and they
are now returning to resume their bodies. and begin a new cycle, in
what a state will they ﬁnd their sumptuous death-chambers, and their
hundred-gated metropolis! Their skulls, stained with bitumen, and
indented with the creases of the bandages, are carried away; one to
Russia, another to America; one is in a royal palace—another in a
Mechanics’ Museum :—their coﬂins are burnt to make an English
lady’s tea ; their cere-cloths are made into paper to wrap up an Arab’s
tobacco. The spices and unguen‘ts were taken from their brains and
chests hundreds of years ago, to be melted down, and serve for some
other perfuming and embalming.—These things may appear less grave
and pathetic at home than on the spot: for mummies are little more
respected in Europe than by the ignorant Arabs who pull them up and
to pieces, for sale and use. Something is perhaps owing to the name;
and something to the dollish oddity of their appearance; but, in its
proper place, there is great dignity about a mummy. Reposing in its
recess or painted chamber, and bearing the marks of allegiance to Osi-
ris, and of acceptance by him, there is something as solemn in its as-
pect as in that of any coﬂin in an English vault: and this solemnity is
not lessened by the thought that in that still breast and sleeping head
beat the‘ heart, and wrought the ideas of three thousand years ago.
This black pall of oblivion hanging over all gives one, though a mere
stranger, something of the mourner feeling which is one of the privi-
leges of the speculative. when bringing speculation to bear on the ob-
literated past, instead of the unrevealed future.

We had an Opportunity of seeing how different is the interment of
the present inhabitants of the country from that of the old. Of old,
seventy-two days intervened between the death and the burial. Here

‘ Abdnllstif. Relation de l’Egypte, Livre I. Ch. IV

