128 3181'!“ m.

le clear green (which survives everywhere and is beautiful), and a

all red,—deeper for the garments, lighter for the skins.

This chamber is completely cased, except the entrance, with more
modern building. It is shut in, roof andall, as if it had been pushed
into a box. The old door-way, also the work of Ergamun, is built
round by a later devotee. The chambers erected by the Ptolemies
have some modern decorations mixed in with the ancient symbols,—
such as the olivewreath, a harp of a diﬂ'erent make from the old Egyp-
tian, and the Greek caduceus, instead of the native one.

Some yet more modern occupants have sadly spoiled this temple.
The Christians might very naturally feel that they could not go to
worship till they had shut out from their eyesight the symbols of the
old faith: and we therefore should not be hard upon them for luster-
ing over the walls. We should forgive them all the more rea ily be-
cause such plastering is an admirable method of preserving the old
sculptures. But the Christians must have their saints all aboutthem :
and there they are, dim, but obvious enou h,-—with hoge wry faces,
and ﬂaring glories over their heads. Some 0 the sculptures which have
been restored, and some which appear never to have been plastered.
look beautiful beside these daubs.

In the portico of this temple we ﬁrst saw an instance of the more
modern, the Greek, way of at once inclosing and lighting the entrance
to a temple,--by inter-columnar screens and doorway; called now a
portico in antic. I do not remember seeing this in any of the ancient
buildings; while it is found at Philm, Dendara, lens, and other Ptole-
maic erections. It has its beauty and convenience: but it does not
Ieem to suit the primitive Egyptian style, where the walls were re-
lieved of their deadness by sculpture, but, I think, never by breaks.

There are some Greek inscriptions on diﬂ‘ereut parts of this temple;
and two certainly which are not Greek. Whether they are Captic, or
the more ancient Egyptian Enchorial writing, it is not for me to say.—
The outside of the temple is unﬁnished: and fragments of substantial
stone wall about it appear like work left, rather than demolished.
Within one of these walls, I found a passage;_a not uncommon dis-
covery among the massive buildings which might thus conveniently
communicate by a safe and concealed method.

This was our work before breakfast. —Another temple was ready for
us after dinner;--that of the ancient Tutzis, now Garf Hoseyn. ,

I walked on shore for a few minutes, while dinner was hastened: and
saw some agricultural proceedings which were amusing to a stranger.
Two or three donkeys were bringing down dust and sand from the
Desert, across a pretty wide tract of cultivated land, to qualify the rich-
ness of the Nile mud. Their panniers were mere frail-baskets; and
when they were emptied, the wind (which was strong) carried away a

proportion of the contents; and the rest looked such a mere sprin-

ling, that I admired the patience which could procure enough for a
who e ﬁeld. But carts are not known so high up the Nile, nor panniers
worthy of the name. We had moored just under a sakia, whose creak
was most melancholy. This creek is the sweetest and most heart-

