rams. 1—43

and his emhalming, funereal transit, reception by the spirits of Hades,
and ﬁnal investiture as Judge of the Dead .—The next most interesting

'on is the birth of Horus,—to which subject the western temple is
devoted. The Christians have made sad havoc here, with their mud-
plastering; but signiﬁcant portions may be made out; and at the end,
sufﬁcient clearance has been effected to bring out the beautiful group
of Isis with Horus on her knees, receiving homage on all hands, the
guardian hawk overhead being surrounded with a glory of- radiating
water-plants. .

What a symbol is this defacement itself of that action of the inﬁrm
human mind which is for ever obliterating, as far as it can, all ideas
but its own! How faithless, in fact, as well as ignorant, is that zeal
which would extinguish as dan rous all conceptions but those which
suit its own transient needs, an which considers as false and doomed to
destruction all ideas, and all expressions of them, which are nbt at the
moment present to themselves! And how great is the symbolical en-
oouragement here in the durability of the old representations, and the
ineffectual character of the defacement! These Christians ﬂattered
themselves that they had buriedaway for ever those old gods of Egypt,
and driven out the whole time-honored. group, to make way fort eir
saints. They thought the thing was done when they had put a yellow
halo over the lotus-glory; and the dove over the hawk; and St. Peter
with his keys of heaven over Phthah with his key of life; and angels
with their palm-branches over the Assessors of the dead with their fea-
ther-symbols of Integrity: as the Puritans of modern times supposed
they had destroyed superstition by burning altar-pieces and stripping
cathedrals. But- such extinction, being no man’s business, is in no
man’s power. The mud plaster can be cleared away; and the old gods
reappear, serene and beautiful, and almost as venerable as ever to those
who can discern their ideal through their forms: and it may be that
their worship is as lively as ever in the hearts of those who regard them
(as their best worshipers always did regard them) as imperishable
ideas presented in forms congenial to their times. The‘Christian saints,
with their halos, keys, palms, and books, share the same privilege.
No narrow Puritan zeal can abolish them. In as far as they embody
spiritual truth, they must share the immortality of truth :——exactly so
far, and no farther. Meantime, we who have stood before the plastered
walls of Philce, and the ruins of Catholic churches, cannot escape the
admonition they convey ;——to accept the truth which comes to us with-
out daring to interfere with what comes (as they believe) to others: to
enjoy our brightening dawn, without trying to at out the moon and
stars; which would not have existed, if they be not been wanted by
some beings be ond our jurisdiction, and in some place beyond our ken.

l Tlie order 0 the ediﬁces at Philm may be shortly given, and I hope
c ear y.

Beginnin from the southern shore, where there was once a ﬂi ht of
steps from’t e water, and a quay, we ﬁnd ﬁrst, on the left west) and,
a sandstone pillar, whose fellow was brought to England by r. Bankes.
This latter is remarkable as hearing inscribed the petition of the priests

