364 nasmn 311's.

searched, and found a bit of the inscription : but as a whole, it is irrei-
coverable. That far-famed work is gone forever! This is a warning
to us not to judge of what Petra was by what we see now. It is na-
tural to suppose a sort of immutability in a rock-fastness like this: but
we see here how much depends on the structure of the rock, and the
inﬂuences which operate upon it. The forces of wind and water are
great at Petra : and the presence of oxide of iron here, as of saltpetre
in the columns at Karnac, seems to insure the fall of works which
would appear likely to greet‘ as many generations as the everlasting
hills.

I again went out at night, and saw the ﬁres of the Arabs, even in
some very distant caves. But instead of clear moonlight, there were
clouds driving in the cold rising wind. I lingered over this night
view; for it was the last. In the morning, we were to be off; and
the most romantic vision of the travels of my life would be withdrawn.

 

CHAPTER IX.
MOUNT HOR.—FROM PETRA TO THE FRONTIER OF PALESTINE.

ON the morning of Wednesday, March 24th, ten of our company
were off before seven, with a party of guides, to ascend Mount Hor.
The rest of our number were to set out later, and to await us with
luncheon at an appointed spot, while the baggage camels were to pro-
ceed still further, that our tents might be pitched before we reached our
resting-place. This separation of our party showed that the Sheikh
apprehended nothing from enemies just here, though he had been so
cautious after leaving Akaba.

I walked out to Petra, wishing to have my last look of it undisturbed.
It was more striking than ever; and especially the enclosing rocks, with
their cloven summits and nest-like habitations. The last object, be-
longing to Petra itself, which was visible, was the single column, which
we left standing like a sentinel above the pass. As I walked from it,
I left Petra to its mists and mysterious quietude, and turned my thoughts
to Mount Hor, which rose immediately before me.

We were assured that the ascent was only 1500 feet from the high
ground on which we stood.-—We were well pleased to be permitted to
ascend this mountain; but I certainly had no idea at the time how rare
was the privilege we were enjoying. Burckhardt was prevented, both
by fatigue and the opposition of his guide, from going further than
“the high plain called Aaron’s terrace, at the foot of the mountain upon
which his tomb is situated :" that is, the plain on which we now
emerged from the bed of a torrent, which we had been following for
some time. Here Burckhardt sacriﬁced a goat to Aaron, fulﬁlling the
pretended vow by which alone he was enabled to get even thus far.
He declares that he afterwards much regretted having failed to visit the
tomb. Laborde and Linant had to hurry away from Petra without

