-— runs or means. 489

hamlet is Kferhoura. Its situation is bleak; but there are two little
fertile dells on either side of the ridge; and the people seemed to be
tilling their ﬁelds with care and success. The evening was so cold
that we should have been glad of a ﬁre in our tent: but there was no
more charcoal left than would be wanted to boil the kettle in the morn-
ing. All night, the wind was high; and the servants were kept from
their rest, knocking in the tent-pegs, that our whole establishment
mi ht not ﬂy away.

It the-3d of December, it had been pro need, on board our Nile
boat, and agreed to nem. com, that we shou d go to Damascus. And
now, on the morning of the 25th of April, we were within a few miles
of it. Nothing could be less like our notions of Damascus and its
climate than the spot we were on. It was far more like Westmore-
land in March; and my heart warmed to it for that reason, in spite of
the cold gusts, which brought mists and ﬂying showers upon us from
the mountains. Mrs. Y. and I sat under a rock and an umbrella,
reading about the Druses, while the tents were struck :-—quite a new
piece of oriental experience! There was, however, such a rainbow
as I suppose was never seen in Westmoreland,-—ﬂrst inclosing a group
of mountains, and then confounding their outlines with its colors.—
We descended considerably to the Field of Damascus,—-the plain
amidst which the city is placed; but still it was evident that this plain
itself is high ground, in comparison with the Valley of the Jordan.
The wind was so strong, and blew so incessantly, that we could not
have traveled at all, if it had not been in our backs.

This Field of Damascus is very striking ;--a plain of yellowish soil,
scantily tilled, or, at leash-showing to-day very scanty crops; with
bushes and low trees sprinkled here and there, and many streams
crossing the track; and the whole plain closed in by many-tinted moun-
tains, of which Lebanon is the crown. Far away, at three hours’
journey from the hills we descended, a black stripe lay straight across
the plain, which, as we approached, assumed more and more the ap-
pearance of what it really was, a “ verdurous wall of Paradise.” Above
the great mass of ve'rdure, sprang the loftiest poplars I ever saw; and
when we came within a few miles, the pale minarets appeared above
the woods, in rivalship with the dark poplars. Embosomed in these
woods lies Damascus.

On our way, we saw the Mirage in great perfection. If I had not
known what the plain really contained,l should have been completely
deceived: and. as it was,I was perplexed about what was real and
what mere semblance. Before us was a wide gleaming lake, with
wooded shores. It was these shores that perplexed me; for! could
allow for the water. As we approached, the vision ﬂaked away, and
formed again behind us; only, the waters behind looked gray and dark,
whereas they were gleamy when in front. The woods on the shore
resolved themselves into scrubby bushes,-—the hiding places.one might
suppose. of naughty little mocking elves. There is something unpleasant
and disheartening in the sensation of the dissolution of a vivid mirage,
even when one is not in want of water and shade. It gives one a

