no: sun! 10 Ann. 337

wonlld have conveyed to us no more than they probably now do to my
tea era.

The ascending wadee narrowed to a pass of steeper ascent; and the
pass to a mere mountain road; and then, the road to a staircase—a zig-
zag staircase of steep, irre ular steps, so completely without pause that
the great anxiety of every y was to keep his camel going, because
every one behind was in suspension—hanging between two steps, so
that any stoppage must be worse than inconvenient. Many would
have been glad to dismount, but they 'must'notstop even for that mo-
ment. The we was also too narrow for alighting safely. One lady
jumped'oﬂ'; an then was in a great agony because her camel resisted
being pulled forward ; . and there was not room for her to pass behind
to drive it. The next in the string applied his stick to good purpose;
so that we were relieved from our hanging attitude. During that
minute, I could glance behind me; and most striking was the picture
of the sandy and stony areas below, with the long-drawn caravan wind-
in far beneath and up the steep. Our position must have looked ter-
ri c to the hindmost. At the top, we found ourselves on a pinnacle—
a mere point, whence the way down looked more threatening than that
we had passed. I could not allow myself a single moment here; for the
camels were still tail to needs“ the way down; and in the same way must
they descend the tremendous zigzag before me. Most of the gentlemen
contrived to slip off here, but there was no room or time for me, in
the precise spot I occupied, to do so: so I set myself ﬁrm in my stir-
rups, and determined to leave it to my camel how to accomplish the
break-neck descent. Only two besides myself rode down the whole
way; and I believe we were all surprised that every one‘arrived at the
bottom in safety. There were a few slips and falls, but no harm done.
The ridge of a camel is a great height from which to look down on, not
only the steepest turns of sharp zigzag on the side of a reci ice, but
long slippery stone steps, in quick succession. 'I depen ed allogether
upon my stirrups; a pair hung short over the front peg of the saddle,
which save the necessity of resting one’s feet on the camel’s neck in
any steep descent, and are a great help in keeping one steady. I do
not think such a pass as this could be accomplished without them.

In the dreary scene below us we found a shady place, which yet was
dreadfully hot. We stayed an hour, though Akaba was yet ﬁve hours
off, and it was now half-past one. The baggage-camels and dragoman
of our party had gone on while we rested; so that we four must reach
Akaba this evening, whether the rest of the caravan did so or not; and
in the state of weariness and illness in which I was from the heat, this ,
was rather formidable to think of. After four o'clock, however, the
sun had so far declined as to become endurable. I took off my hat, and
let the warm breeze blow in my face, and felt that I could very well
reach Akaba. After passing the island of Grain, and before four
o’clock, the rest of the commny stepped, pitching theirtents on the
beach, and we four trotted on. By the extraordinary kindness of some
of our companions, a tent was offered to Mrs. Y. and me, if we would

22

