noux'r or onms. 416

owe much to that device of Robert Sterens,—much convenience for
reference,—-but, as for the rest of the world, it seems as if it would have
been better for us that Robert Stevens should have slept all the way
from Lyons to Paris, than that he should have spent his time in cutting
up the Bible, in a vast hurry, into verses. Happily, there are para-
graph Bibles still to be had; though too few seem to prefer the use of
them.

Nething struck us more than the space and vastness everywhere
aboutus. The commonest disappointment of all in seeing laces which
one has dreamed of all one’s life, or remembered from chi dhood, is to
ﬁnd everything so small. My‘idea of Jerusalem was of a city nearly
surrounded with dells, with a mere rising round for the Mount of
Olives. But as we sat among the tombs to- ay, the wayfarers on the
Bethany road, and the horsemen in the valley below, and the goat-
herds on the slape of Olivet, were diminished to the size of people on
the sea shore, seen from a lofty cliff. From a mere glance round, one
would have said that we had the whole scene nearly to ourselves; but,
when we came to consider, there were many pe0ple within sight, and
they appeared so few only.on account of the scale of the surrounding
objects. The village of Siloam was on the opposite hill, about half a
mile away to the right; and I watched the progress of two horsemen
from before it to the point of road near us, ascending to the city.- I
was surprised to see how slow appeared their progress, and how small
their size below; and how long they were in winding up the hill on
which we sat. The gaping tombs in the opposite rock looked mere
holes.—-The winding away of the valley southwards was exceedingly
beautiful, with its red rocks and dim olive groves, and sloping ﬁelds
and craggy, terraced hills, till the distant heights overlapped, and
screened from us the blue Moab mountains.

In returning, we skirted the city southwards, and entered by the
Zion gate. The trees of the Armenian convent garden tempted us in:
but we found nothing worth. looking at, and brought away only a few
roses and poor geraniums. We had not yet. set foot on the Mount of
Olives, or crossed the Kedron. These and some other sacred places
we were to explore a few days hence, on our return from an expedition
to the Jordan and the Dead Sea. .

 

CHAP'I‘ER IV.

BETHANY.—PLAIN OF J ERICHO.—ELISHA’S SPRING.—JERICHO.—THE
J ORDAN .—THE DEAD SEA.—CONVENT OF SANTA SABA.

ON Monday, April 5th, we were on horseback early for our rendez-
vous in the valley of Jehoshaphat. The party were to meet at Job’s
Tomb; and a large company we appeared when assembled. Our De-
sert comrades were all there; and four strangers,—Eur0pean gentle-
men who had asked permission to ride with us, on meant of the in-

