“manna. . 883

gleam. To our right lay Bethlehem. To our right we turned; for
news met us at this corner that we could be lodged in the Latin con-
vent at Bethlehem. We descended through the narrow streets of the
village, and passed along the road, half-way up the rocks, to the con-
vent, which stands on a point nobly commanding the eastern plain, as
far as the hills which enclose the Dead Sea. It was toordusk now to
see much ~of this; and we left all research till the morning.—We were
kindly received by the friars, and had good rooms and thoroughly clean
beds. There was no annoyance whatever but gnats. The moon shone
in splendidly all night: a great blessing to me; for I was not yet suﬂi—
ciently at ease to sleep. I have a pleasant recollection of that night,
however,-—the moon shining full in at the high window, and showrng
me the ample 3 aces of that lofty and large apartment; and the cor-
tainty being he one me‘ of seeing to-morrow the ﬁelds where Ruth
gleaned among the maidens of Boaz, and the. pastures where a shep-

erd-hoy once tended his father’s ﬂock's,—now seeking smooth stones
for his sling among the brooks, and now delighting himself with that
young song; which was to grow divine, and to become the worship of
future ages and nations,—in the islands of the Southern ocean, and
the cathedrals of Euro e, and among the forests of the western world.
It was strange to thin what the Psalms of David have become, and
then to remember that in the morning we should see the very valleys
and hill-sides where he led his sheep, and tried his young voice, with
the echoes for his chorus.

On that marrow (Wednesday, March Slat), we had these anticipated
pleasures,--of seeing the face of the country where Ruth and her do-
scendant David were out in the ﬁelds; but we now began to experience
that pain,—so much greater than can be anticipated,—to one’s char.
ished associations, which is the birth of superstition at home and on
‘the spot. . We hear much complaint from travelers of their pain from
the superstition on the spot; but little or nothing of the perplexity or
disturbance from the superstition they have left behind or brought with
them. The superstition I refer to istthe worship of the Letter of the
Bible, to the sacriﬁce of its spirit. As to the comfort and pleasure of
the traveler in the Holy Land, it may truly be said that “ the letter
killeth, but the spirit maketh alive.” I had opportunity to see the
difference between those who were in bondage and those who were
free. One of the best things that Coleridge ever said was that our
idolatry would he succeeded by bibliolatry. When I saw abroad, as I
continually see at home, the curse of this bibliolatry, I thought it hard
to say which was the worst of the two. In Idolatry, Christian or pre-
gan, there is always some true ideadnvolved, however much corruption
may be associated with it: but in the ‘awful error of mistaking the
Records of the origin of Judaism and Christianityfor the messagm
themselves, there seems no redeeming consideration. The error of
bibliolatry is the more tuitous of the two. There is no declaration
in the Records themse ves that they are anything more than records:
and if the writers could have foreknown that the hearts and minds
which ought to be occupied with the history and. the doctrine would In

