204 mm urn.

prominent with us? There cannot be a woman of them all who is
not dwarfed and withered in mind and soul by being kept wholly en-
grossed with that one interesn—detained at that stage in existence
which, though most important in its place, is so as a means to ulterior
ends. The ignorance is fearful enough ; but the grossness is revolting.

At the third move, and when it was by some means understood that
we were waited for, we were permitted to go,—after a visit of above
two hours. The sick lady rose from her cushions, notwithstanding
our opposition, and we were conducted forth with much observance.
On each side of the curtain which overhung the outer entrance, stood '
a girl with a bottle of rose water, some of which was" splashed in our
faces as we passed out.

We had reached the carriage when we were called back :-—his ex-
eellency was waiting for us. So we visited him in a pretty apartment,
paved with variegated marbles, and with a fountain in the centre. His
excellency was a sensible-looking man, with gay, easy and graceful
manners. He lamented the mistake about the interpreter, and said we
must go again, when we might have conversation. He insisted upon
attending us to the carriage, actually passing between the ﬁles of beg-

ars which lined the outer passage. The dragoman was so excessively
shocked by this degree of condescension, that we felt obliged to be so
too, and remonstrated ; but in vain. He stood till the door was shut,
and the whip was cracked. He is a liberal-minded man; and his ha-
reem is nearly as favorable a specimen as could be selected for a visit;
but what is this best specimen? I ﬁnd these words written down on
the same day, in my journal : written, as I well remember, in heaviness
of heart. “I am glad of the opportunity of seeing a hareem: but it
leaves an impression of discontent and uneasiness which I shall be glad
to sleep 03'. And I am not conscious that there is prejudice in this. I
feel that a visit to the worst room in the Rookery in St. Giles’ would
have affected me less painfully. There are there at least the elements
of a rational life, however perverted; while here humanity is wholly
and hopelessly baulked. It will never do to look on this as a case for
cosmopolitan philosophy to regard ccmplacently, and require a good
construction for. It is not a phase of natural early manners. It is as
pure a conventionalism as our representative monarchy, or German
heraldry, or Hindoo caste; and the most atrocious in the world.”

And of this atrocious system, Egypt is the most atrocious example.
It has unequaled facilities for the importation of black and white
«slaves; and these facilities are used to the utmost; yet the population
is incessantly on the decline. But for the importation of slaves, the
upper classes, where polygamy runs riot, must soon die out,—so few
are the children born, and so fatal to health are the arrangements of
society. The ﬁnest children are those born of Circassian or Georgian
mothers; and but for these, we should soon bear little more of an upper
class in Egypt.-—Large numbers are brought from the south,—the girls
to be made attendants or concubines in the hareem, and the boys to be
made, in a vast proportion, those guards to the female part of the
establishment whose mere presence is a perpetual insult and shame to

