am: "am. 226

is the older and (greater of the two. They say that from all the coun-
tries of the worl , people come in pilgrimage to these two pyramids.—
In my great work, I have enla ed upon this subject; and I have re-
lated what others have said of t cos ediﬁces. To that account I refer
those who desire further details. Here, I limit myself to what I have
myself seen. ‘

“ When Melic-alaziz Othman-ben-Yousouf had succeeded his father,
he let himself be persuaded by some’of his courtiers,——foolish people,
—-to demolish these pyramids: and they began with the red" pyramid,
which is the third and smallest of the three great p ramids.

“The Sultaun sent there his sappers, miners an quarrymen, under
the superintendence of some of the principal ofﬁcers and ﬁrst Emirs
of his court, and gave them orders to destroy it. To execute these
orders, they established their camp near the pyramid: they collected
there a multitude of laborers from all quarters, and maintained them
at great cost. They remained there eight entire months, occupied,
with all their people, in executing their commission, carrying away,
each day, after extreme exertion and exhaustion, two or three stones.
Some pushed them from above with wedges and levers, while others
drew them awa from the base with ropes and cables. Whenever one
of these stones ell, it made a fearful noise, which echoed far 06; shook
the earth, and made the hills tremble. By its fall, it was buried in the
sand; and then, great eﬂ'orts were made to remove it; after which the
peOple wrought grooves for the wedges to enter; and thus the stones
were split into several pieces :-—then each fragment was placed upon
? car, to be carried to a mountain a little way off, and thrown out at its
00L

“After the company had remained a long time encamped on this
spot, when their pecuniary means were all expended, while their trouble
and fatigue went on increasing, and their resolution growing weaker,
day by day, and their, strength was utterly exhausted, they were ob-'
liged ignominiously to quit their enterprise. Far from obtaining the
result they had anticipated, and succeedin in their design, they ended
by doing nothing but spoiling the pyrami , and evidencing their. own
powerlessness. This passed in the year 593,-(a.n. 1196.) When one
now looks at the stones brought down in the course of the demolition,
one is persuaded that the p ramid has been destroyed from its foun-
dation: but when, on the other hand, one looks up at the pyramid, one
believes that it has suffered no injury whatever, and that nothing has
happened but the paring off of a portion of the casing on one of its
en es.

“ Observing one day what extremely heavy work it was to remove a
single stone, I addressed one of the superintendents who was directing
the workmen, and put this question to him—‘ If any one offered you a
thousand pieces of gold to replace one of these stones, and adjust it as
it was before, do you think you could accomplish it 2’ His answer was

' So called from its being made of red granite.
15

