' The ms. 35

wards. He declared our friend to be the Pasha's dentist! To form a
notion of the importance of this functiona‘fy‘, it is necessary to remem-
ber that the pasha’s having a dentist is o'rte' of the most remarkable
signs of our times. That a Mohammedan ruler should have permitted
his beard to be handled is a token of change more extraordinary than
the adoption of the Frank dress in’Turkey,or the introduction of wine
at Mohammedan dinners ;‘ and the man who was permitted by the Pa-
sha to touch his beard must be ‘regarded throughout the country as a
person inestimably powerful with his Highness. Such a personage
was our Scotch friend compelled to appear for some way up the river,
and very reluctant he was to bear the dignity to which his aSsent had
not been asked. A pretty bird, of the kingﬁsher kind apparently,
colored black, gray and tawny, was ﬂitting about on the shore when I
took my ﬁrst walk on shore this morning. And I think I have now
mentioned nearly all the birds 'we observed in the course of our voyage.

Our object, like that of Egyptian travelers generally, was to sail up
the river as fast as the wind Would carry us, seeing by the way only
as much as would not interfere with the progress of the b'oa't'." It was
the season when the north wind prevailed; and this advantage was not
to be triﬂed with in a voyage'of a thousand miles, certain as we were
of the help of the current to bring us back. We were therefore to
explore no pyramids or temples on our way up; and‘ to see only so
much of the country as we could get a glimpse of on "occasion of the
failure of the ‘tvind, or other accidental delays. To this there was no
objection in our minds; for we found at once that in going up the Nile
in any manner we should meet with as much novelty and interest as
we could hear. The face of the' country was enough at one time. To
have explored its monuments immediately would have been too much.
Moreover, there' was a great advantage in going up quickly while the
river was yet high enough to aﬂ‘or ‘some view of the country. In
returning, we found such a change produced by the sinking of the
waters only a few feet, that we felt that travelers going up late in the
season can hardly be said to have seen the country from the river. At
all times, the view of the interior from the Nile must be very imper-
fect, and quite insufﬁcient to justify any decision against the beauty of
the great valley. This arises from, the singular structure of the coun-
try. Everywhere else, where ariver ﬂows through the centre of a val-
ley, the land either slopes from the base of the hills down to the river,
or it is level. In Egypt, on the contrary, the land rises from the
mountains up to the banks of the Nile: and where, as usually happens,
the banks are higher than the eye of the spectator on the deck of his
boat, all view of the interior, as far as the hills, is precluded. He
sees nothing but the towns, villages, and palm-groves on the banks, and ,
the mountains on the horizon. My attention had i
this point before I went by the complaints of some
travels that, after all their reading, they knew no m
tian valley looked like than if it had never been vi
ure of description appeared to regard Egypt alone,
peculiar cause for it: and thus we found it. T

