memos. '449

travel ;-—all this was disagreeable enough: but at N ablous, there are
other désagrémens. The bigotry of the people is so great that till of
late years, no Christian was permitted to set foot within the gates.
Ibraheem Pasha punished the place severely, and made the people so
desperately afraid of him that they observe his commands pretty much
as if he had power in Syria still. One of his commands was that
Christians should not be ill-treated; so we entered N ablous, and rode
through it to our encampment on the other side. During our passage,
I had threerslaps in the face from millet stalks and other things thrown
at me; and whichever way we looked, the people were grinning,
thrusting out their ton es,tand pretending to spit. My party blamed
me for feeling this, an said things which were undeniably true about
the ignorance of the pe0ple, and the contempt we should feel for such
evidences of it. But, true as all this was,I did not grow reconciled to
being hated and insulted; and I continue to this day to think the lia-
bility to it the great drawback of Eastern travel.

The town is large,—the bazaars handsome,—-and the women becom-
ingly dressed in cream-colored mantles or veils, bordered with red.
Just outside the further gate, there were lepers again,—a forlorn com-
pany ranged under the trees, holding out their poor maimed hands for
charity.—Our tents were pitched on a grassy,'weedy plot, sprinkled
over with fruit trees, and with springs and gardens all about; and, of
course, with the pair of mountains still rising on either hand. Ebal
exhibited a large prickly-pear garden; and Gerizim a ﬁne face of orange
rocks, ﬁssured with dark clefts, and fringed with brushwood.

After dinner, we were eager to be walking. We wanted to obtain a
View of the town from above it; and I had some little hope that before
we returned we might have learned something of the few remaining
Samaritans: and perhaps have seen them and their precious MS.
Every one knows that this MS., though not 3,500 years old, as the
Samaritans pretend, is yet a very valuable copy of the Pentateuch. It
is interesting, from its value in the eyes of scholars, and from its being
a ﬁne specimen of Samaritan text:* and no less from the ﬁrm faith
with which the Samaritans regard it as an antique of 3,500 years old.

We ascended the slope on our left,—-that of Gerizim,—passed the
Mohammedan cemetery, and attained a point whence we had a noble
view, in the last sunlight, of this beautiful city. It could hardly have
looked more beautiful when it was the capital of Samaria. Its houses,
with their ﬂat white roofs, are hedged in by the groves which surround
the town: vines spread from roof to roof, and from court to court:
four palm trees spring up in the midst; and higher aloft still, a graceful
minaret here and there.

Here we were told, to my delight, that we might see the Samaritans
and their synagogue. We were led down into the town, and along
some low arched passages, and across a small court, to the synagogue.
There the Samaritans dro ed in, to greet us; and we saw almost all
of the sect in the place. t was not very easy to communicate freely

’ See p. 95.
29

