98 smart use. ‘

impossible to constrain them. The king took with him a force of
Greek mercenaries, whom he sent some way, as we shall see by and
by, after the deserters; but it appears that he did not go higher than
Elephantine. ,

While we thus see how Egypt became weakened in preparation for
downfall, it is pretty clear, on the ether hand, how the process went on
by which the rest of the world became enlightened by her knowledge,
and ripened by her wisdom. -

About thirty years after Sa'is became the capital of Egypt, the ﬁrst
of the Wise Men of Greece, Thales, was born. He went to Egypt to
improve his knowledge,—and remarkable, indeed, was the knowledge
he brought away. He was the ﬁrst Greek who predicted an eclipse. He
forewarned his Ionian countrymen of that celebrated eclipse which,
when it happened, suspended the battle between the Modes and Ly-
dians. Itwas Thales, we are told, who, after his return from Egypt.
ﬁxed the sun’s orbit, or determined the duration of the year to be 365
days. It was in Egypt that he obtained his knowledge of Geometry:
and he it was who imparted, on his return, the great discovery that the
angle in a semicircle is always a right angle. In Egypt he ascertained
the elevation of the pyramids by observing the shadows of measurable
objects in relation to their height. His connection with Egypt gives us
a new interest in his theories of creation or existence. He gave the
name of Life to every active principle, as we should call it; and in this
sense, naturally declared that the universe was “full of gods.” At the
same time, he is reported by tradition to have said, “The most ancient
of things existing is God; for he is uncreated: the most beautiful thing
is the universe, for it is God’s creation.” Men in Greece wondered at
him for saying what would not surprise even the common men in
Egypt in his day, that Death does not differ from Life.

About the same time came a sober thinking man from Greeceto
Egypt, to exchange a cargo of olive-oil from Athens for Egyptian corn
and luxuries from the east. After this thoughtful man had done his
commercial business, he remained to see what he could of the country
and people. He conversed much with a company of priests at Sals.
who taught him, as Plato tells us, much history, and some geography.
and evidently not a little of law. His countrymen proﬁted on his re-
turn by his studies at Sale; for this oil-merchant was Solon the law- ’
maker. One of his laws is assigned immediately to an Egyptian
origin; that by which every man was required to give an account to
the magistrate of his means of livelihood. As for the geography which
Solon might learn at Sa'is, there is the testimony of Herodotus that
King Necho, the predecessor of Psammitichus I., sent a maritime ex-
pedition by the Red Sea, which circumnavigated Africa, and returned
by the Pillars of Hercules.“ Plato tells us? that one of Solon’s priestly
friends, Sonchis, told him of some Atlantic isles, beyond the Pillars of

' Herod. IV. 42. A strong indication of the truth of this story is found in the
simple remark of Herodotus that he cannot believe the navigators in one of their
assertions,—tbat they had the sun on their right hand.

1- In Critias.

 

 

