510 nurses am.

that we were surrounded by complete desolation. The light shone
through the ﬁssures in the temple-buildings; and the whole area of
Baalbec was an expanse of heaped stones, with two unﬁnished minerals,
and some modern dwellings rising out of them.

The large square called the Forum, struck us as being very beautiful.
Here,when this city was the glory of the plain between the two Lebanon
ranges, did the people meet ;—the merchants trading between India and
Tyre; the Egyptians on their way to Damascus; the soldiers from
Rome; the artists and phil050phers from Greece; the ambassadors on
their way to Palmyra, and the priests of the temple which towered
close at hand. The ediﬁce in the midst has left mere traces; butthe
corner recesses of the enclosure, and the niches, with the Medusa-heads.
the shells, and other such ornaments, tell something of the beaut which
is gone—The Saracenic fortress and vaults are wonderful p cosh
size and solidity; but, of course, they do not constitute the interestof
Baalbec.

Early the next morning (May 6th), we walked to the little oratory
m the Bekaa, about half an hour south from the Temple. It is merely
a small rooﬂess building, whose unadorned cornice is supported by eight
granite pillars. The advantage of the walk was in giving us
views of the plain as we went, and of the ruins as we returned. The
road was a mere track, passing among patches of tilled ground. In
this path I saw, on returning, an oddl -shaped small stone ; and font!-
nately I stooped for it. When cleaned: it turnedout to be a beautifully
sculptured little hand, grasping a leaf. No doubt it is a fragment of
some sculptured wreath from the temple ;—a bit of plunder drOppedin
the path by some thief.

After breakfast, we visited the most elegant of the smaller buildings:
the circular temple with an hexagonal cornice. Only four pillarsof
the six remain, and the ediﬁce is crumbling away. The Greek Chris-
tians have daubed the inside and the door-posts with their wretched
paintings.

We rode to Ras-el-Ain, the spring of the river of Baalbec; and on
our way, we passed mosques, whose arches are supported by elegant
marble Corinthian pillars ;—symbols of the Sun-god having come to d0
homage to the latest Prophet.—The place of the spring is pretty ;-4
grassy spot, enlivened with‘welling waters. The yellow rwe gl't’!‘r
splendidly here. On our return, we once more went over the ruin&
measuring the large stones, and completing our survey; and then
mounted to follow our baggage! trainacross the Bekaa.

The land was roughly ploughed, very stony and weedy, but pro-
ducing good crops here and there. Among the barley, I saw now!I
sarcophagus,—then a hewn stone covered with sculptures,—and, stand'
ing up conspicuously in the wide level, the pillar called Hamoudisde.
This mixture of elements of scenery, with the colonndes of Baa“)?c
surmounting the trees behind, was stran e enough: but the whole W85
further perplexed and made remarkab e by a mirage in the plain.
almost as deceptive as that in the Field of Damascus.-—At the village
of Dayr-el-Akmar, we obtained a guide, to conduct us over the Lebl-

R...

15%

