name IN mm. 239

before the ground could imbibe much of the beneﬁt, and declined so
rapidly that not nearly all the districts felt the inundation, and some of
those -ve scantily. Abdallatif observes, "One would have said that
it was on y the phantom of the inundation which had visited them, like
those spectres that we imagine we see in a dream, and which imme-
diately vanish. Only the level lands proﬁted by the inundation: and
the’lower provinces, as Garbiyyeh and some others, were .suﬁciently
watered: but the villages were entirely emptied of cultivators and la-
borers. This text of the Karin might be applied to them, The next-
morm’n nothing teas seen of them but their habitations. The rich
collects their scattered dependents, and brought together the few la-
borers who, remained to. them. Laborers and cattle were‘so rare that
a bull in good condition was sold for 'sevent pieces of gold; and one
which was in poor plight for a little less—{n the greater part of the
count districts, the waters retired too soon, and before the lands had
been l(-iyuly soaked, because there was‘no one to shut in the. waters,
and detain them upon the ﬁelds; and this was the reason why such
lands remained untilled, though they had partaken of the inundation.
Many which had been watered enough remained fallow, because the
proprietors could neither provide the seed nor pay the expenses of
cultivation. Of the ﬁelds which were sown, many were laid waste by
the vermin which devoured the seed: and of the seed which escaped
this deztruction, much gave out only a weak blade which presently

rishe .
pe“ It is from God that consolation must be looked for: for it is He who,
by His goodness and liberality, determineshappy events.”

Till the middle of the second year, everything continued to grow
worse. “ Fewer poor perished,” says Abdellatif,"I “ not because the
cause of their destruction was altered, but on] because they were re-
duced to a small number.—The practice of eating human ﬂesh became
less common; and at last we heard no more of it. The provisions ex-

ed for sale in the market were more rare! stolen,because vagabonds
ad almost disappeared from the town. he price of provisions fell
till the ardeb of- wheatf was sold for three pieces of gold, (it had been
ﬁve,) “ but this abatement of price was owing to the small number of
consumers, and not to the abundance of food. The city was relieved
by the loss of the greater part of its population ; and all that it contain-
ed was reduced in the same proportion. People became accustomed
to the dearness of provisions; and by dint of enduring famine, they
had, as it were, contracted the habit, like that of a. natural state of
things.” . . . .

“I have been assured that there had previously been at Misr nine
hundred machines for weaving mats; and thatnow only ﬁfteen remain-
ed. We have only to apply the same proportion to the other trades
which are carried on in that town; to the shop-keepers, bakers, grocers,
shoemakers, tailors and other artisans. The numbers employed in each

' Relation de l’Egypte, Livre II. ch. 3.
'I' A little under ﬁve bushels.

