3M eastern! LIFE.

ledges above one’s head are heaped stones in such quantities as show
how ﬁercely the torrent drives throngh this pass after the winter rains :
a liability which was, of course, guarded against when this was a capi-
tal city.

In the proudest of those days, there must have been an indomitable
wildness in this main avenue ;—almost as much as now;—almost as
much when the commerce and the pleasure of the city passed through
it,—on the backs of camels from the East, or in chariots from Rome,—
as now when a party from far England was stumbling among its debris,
full of wonder and bafﬂed speculation. The sharp lights and deep
shadows must have been the same then as now; and the gay hues of
the rocks. Were the sky-high trees and rock-weeds there! and the
eagle spreading his wings on his eyrie, as I saw them to-day? And
did the small birds roost in the holes of the precipice, and speckle it
with their shadows as they ﬂew? And did the singing bird,—war—
bling to-day like the nightingale of the place—ﬁnd a natural perch
within the city gates? How strange must have been the strong echoes
of city noises in this gorge I—the cry of the camel drivers, the rattle of
chariots, the common talk and laugh of citizens, and the play of chil-
drenl And what different people must have been met there from the
few we saw to-day! Instead of eastern merchants and Roman soldiers,
and a Greek traveler or two, I saw to-day a group of goats and their
herdsmen, entering into the deepest shadow from a reach of sunshine;
and a child standing with two kids on’ a point of rock above my head;
and a wild troop of shaggy Arabs, clattering their arms as I passed;
and here and there a solitary ﬁgure, with his matchlock, brown tunic,
and white teeth, perched on a pinnacle,or striding over a distant slope.
—These features of wildness carried me back far beyond the Roman
and Greek times; back to the days when the children of Ishmael and
Isaac married, and settled their posterity here. Further back than
this we cannot go; for we know nothing of the Horims who were
driven out from hence by Esau. But Esau, and his wife, the daugh-
ter of Ishmael, and her brother Nebajoth, and his descendants the N a-
bathaaans were probably not unlike the wild Arab goat-herds and
hunters we met to-day, except that they carried bows instead of match-
locks. Their other arms, their dress, face, and form were probably
much the same as we saw. We had only to fancy them multiplied
and inhabiting the holes in the rock; and we might put the last three
thousand years of the world's history out of sight.

After exploring above a mile and a half of this winding deﬁle, we
came to a narrow part where an arch springs from side to side at a
great height; an arch whose purpose is unknown, as it appears im-
possible to ascend to it. It is too narrow to have been a bridge, and too
steep to have been an aqueduct. This arch is the most striking object
in Petra to a hasty observer; and almost every modern traveler before
ourselves was necessarily a hasty observer. Such a city-gate was pro-
bably nowhere else ever seen. Beneath the arch, on either side, is an
empty niche, and pilasters much defaced; and on the eastern side is a
second, smaller niche. A little further on is the entrance to the pass,

