‘

nn'rnunxn. 386

narrative was the Word of God! I saw repeated instances of a gro-
veling superstition, a formal observance of days and places, which
made me wonder whether, if the groves and altars of Baal and Ash-
taroth had now been standing in their old places, there would have
been much to choose between such homage paid to them and to the
actual holy sites of Palestine. How different is the truer reverence of
those who go enlightened by knowledge, and animated by‘a hi her
faith !—who believe that the history of man is truly the Word of d;
and that the reason why the gospel is especially called so is because
those Glad Tidings are the most important event in the history of man.
How inﬁnitely venerable to them are the great religious Ideas which
they know to have been the guiding lights of men from the remotest
past, and which Christ presented anew, puriﬁed and expanded ! What
an exquisite pleasure it is to stand where Jesus stood, and look around
upon the old faiths and sectarian tenets of the world, and bring forth
from them all a faith and hope which should, notwithstanding dreadful
corruptions, elevate mankind through many future ages l—to have in-
sight into the sacred mysteries of Egypt, and the national theology and
Law of Sinai, and the .7 ritual morality of the Pharisees, and the philo-
sophical skepticism of the Sadducees, and the pure and peaceable and
unworldly aspirations of the Essenes, and to see how from all these to-
gether come the ideas, and from the unseen world the spirit, of the re-
ligion which'Jesus taught ! While the devotee looks for traces of his
footsteps, the disciple ﬁnds everywhere traces of his spirit. While
the devotee listens timidly to traditions, the disciple hears everywhere
the echoes of his living voice. While the devotee pores over the text
of the narrative, not daring even to bring parts to bear on each other,
which may throw light on the whole, the loving disciple so opens his
entire mind and heart as to perceive the Holy One with all his powers;
with his understanding receiving the doctrine—with his hope accept-
ing the promises—with his conscience adoring the spirituality—and
with his imagination accompanying the Teacher in all his—haunts—in
the wildernesshnd in the Temple courts, and by the shores of the
Lake. On the spot, one hardly believes that it can be the same faith
that takes one man through the land, holy guide-book in hand, with the
timid, tentative gait of the devotee, and another man, conﬁding in his
guiding instincts, with the free, joyous step of the disciple who has
. ound his Lord.

As for the superstition of the region—the Christian superstition—I
need say nothing in advance of the pain which it causes. The merest
mention of what was shown to us is enough. I do nOt think that tra-
velers can be right in avoiding the Christian establishments in Pales-
tine. The spectacle answers the same purpose as the reading of the
Spurious Gospels. The spectacle and the reading are both painful;
but the are very useful and enlightening, and stimulate to a great deal
of who esome thought. Feeling thus, I saw everything that any one
offered to show me—except the mummeries of Easter Week in the
Churchof the Holy Sepulchre at Jerusalem. From that exhibition I
did shrink; and I stayed at home while two English clergymen and a

25

