run one an. 426

ministered the rite. If there were monks on the spot, no doubt every
localit would be speciﬁed with the utmost precision. Happily, the
river ows on, free from any desecration of the kind. We had it to
ourselves, and wished for nothin beyond what we saw. We know
that the Glad Tidings once spreacf along its whole course, echoed from
rock to rock, whispered from thicket to thicket, wherever there were
human hearts on the watch: and the whole region is so sweet and
sacred that we felt it enough to have tbuched the river in any point.

One thing more we did: we remembered friends at home, and in
lands as far from home as home is from the Jordan. We carried away
some of the water in tin cases provided for the purpose. This being
done, we were summoned to horse, and rode away southwards to the
Dead Sea.

The belt of woodland soon turned eastwards, and we found our-
selves exposed to extreme heat, on a desolate plain, crusted with salt,
and cracked with drought. There had been a closeness and murkié
ness in the air, all the morning, which were very oppressive; and now
it was, at‘our slow pace, almost intolerable. I put my horse to a fast
center, and crossed the plain as quickly as possible, ﬁnding this pace
a relief to my horse, as well as myself. One and another came gal-
loping up, to obtain the same advantage, and our group reached the
shore some time before the bulk of the party. The horses hastened to
the bright clear water, and seemed to be deceived by its apparent fresh-
ness, for they put down their noses repeatedl ,and as often drew back
in disgust. The drift on the beach looked reary enough: ridges of
broken canes and willow twigs washed up, and lying among the salt,
and the little unwholesome swamps of the shore. The scene was
really solemn in its dreariness; the retiring mountains on either hand
bein wholly bare,—of a dull gray with purple shadows,—hot and
parcﬁed to the last degree. The curious lights which hung immova-
ble over the surface of the waters struck me as showing an unusual
state of the atmosphere,—the purple haze resting on one part, and the
line of silvery refraction in another. Though the sky was clear after
the morning clouds had passed away, the sunshine appeared dim; and
the heat was most oppressive—I tasted the limpid water, which looked
as if it could not be nauseous. I took only about two drops; but I
thought I should never again get rid of the taste. It is salt beyond all
notions one can form of saltness; and bitter and fetid. And this is
the water that poor Costigan’s coffee was made of!

Costigan was a young Irishman. whose mind was set upon exploring
the Dead Sea, and giving the world the beneﬁt of his discoveries. It
would have been a useful service: and he had zeal and devotedness
enough for it. But he wanted either knowledge or prudence; and he
lost his life in the adventure, without having left us any additional in-
formation whatever. He sent a small boat overland, on camels’ backs,
to the Lake of Tiberias, and in this he set forth (in an open boat in the
month of July!) with only one attendant—a Maltese servant. They
followed the Jordan, entered the Dead Sea, and reached its southern
end, not without hardship and diﬂiculty. But the fatal struggle was

