mama-s. I”

the tbsther of integrity: and they wrote beside his name, from that
time forward, the name of the goddess of Justice; a practice equivalent
to that of aﬁxing the epithet “ justiﬁed” to his name. This goddess
of Justice, Thmei, is present during the trial of the soul: and she is
identiﬁed in the sculptures by her legend “Thmei, who lives in Amenti,
where she weighs hearts in the balance ;—no sinner weapes her.”'

The survivors of any one for whom a burial has been obtained, but
who might be suspected of unﬁtness for the heavenly mansions, were
enabled to form but too clear an idea of his fate ; for the pains of the
wicked could be conceived of by human imagination, though the im-
mortal pleasures of the just could not. The purgatory of the Egyp-
tians was in fact described deﬁnimly enough: and the representations
of it in the tombs give a strange sensation to the gazer before he has
become accustomed to them. At the extreme end of a large tomb at
Thebesd I saw some marks on the black and stained wall which made
me hold my candle nearer, and persevere till I had made out the whole
sculpture, which gave me at last the impression of a bad dream. A
hapeless-looking pig, with a bristling back, was in a boat, the stern of
which was towards the heavenly regions. Two monkeys were with
it, one at the bow, and the other whipping or driving the pig. This
was a wicked soul, sent back to earth under the conduct of the ents
of Thoth. The busy and gleeful look of the monkeys, and the‘gum-
bled aspect of the pig, were powerfully given. This was the lowest
state of the punished soul; but it would have to pass through some
very mournful ones, and for a very long time,—to be probably a wolf, a
scorpion, or a kite, or some other odious creature, in weary succes-
siont—for a term of from three thousand to ten thousand years. This
was called passing through its “ orbit of necessity.”

We now know enoUgh of the outward state, and of the views and
expectations of a Pharoah, to understand the illustrations of his tomb.
He was a priest, and therefore informed of the secret speculations of
the wise upon the nature of the Divine Government and the destiny of
man. On account of both his civil and his ecclesiastical ranlt, he was
compelled to blazon forth his deeds and his expectations in rest pomp.
He has been laid in the chambers of the tomb with every unereal ob-
servance; and he has left on, those walls illustrations of his faith which
the vulgar may take literally, or let alone as unintelligible, while to
priestly eyes they once told more than we shall now ever understand;
and through those of a Pythagoras spread a philosophy through the
world, so lofty as to command the praise at once of heathen, Jew and
Christian. Here, wherethe common eye, then as now, could see only
a household of gods and nothing higher, Pythagoras could see, throug
these transparent shows of attributes, that there was, because there
must be, some vital centre, from whence they derived their existence.
While the vulgar saw only in the fate of the damned “ the circle of
necessity,” he saw it everywhere, believing that the ency of the cen-
tral unity was Operative wholly through numbers,—w ich are another

‘ Champollion, Lettres sur I’Egypte. 'f Bruce’s, or the Harper’s.

