rooms so swat. 305

pools t—even we, with all our comforts and our well-ﬁlled water-skins,
relieved our mental oppression with imagery like this. But the poor
Hebrews had no Scriptures, no faith, no promises that they could yet
receive. To them, it was all evil and no hope. Well might Moses
himself here sink below the level of his purposes, and cry “ What
shall I do unto this people? they be almost ready to stone me.” When
my eye caught at the tufts of grass peeping from under the stones, and
a green bush here and there in the ravines, .I remembered that they
would be gone before the summer, and that there were none when the
Hebrews passed by. ,

It was at the end of one of these parched wadees that we encamped
that nighn—encompassed with precipitous rocks. The red granite
mountains we were now in the midst of, are massive and awful beyond
any other mountains I ever saw. The sunset lights, and the morrow’s
dawn dressed them in splendor, but scarcely relieved their gloom.—
This had been a remarkable day; but the morrow was yet more so.

I was out at dawn on the morning of the 5th, and by sunrise I was
walking forwards alone, watching the sun-ﬂoods which streamed down
"between the fantastic peaks of the mountains. Enormous blocks of red
granite lay beside the tracks; and from their crevices the birds ﬂew up
'into the light. I had been warned not to walk far; and I soon learned
why.—Presently after mounting, I was surprised to see, on the left
hand face of rock, two tablets smoothed for inscriptions. On one, the
inscription had been eﬂ'aced: the other was covered with Egyptian
hieroglyphics.—Bishara came up, and pointed to a wadee before us
which diverged from the main route,—Wadee Magara,——and here he
evidently wanted us to go. We turned in there: and I will just men-
tion, for the guidance of any future traveler, where the Egyptian relics
are to be looked for. Passing into Wadee Magara from Wadee Gen-
nee, a patch of green shrubs soon appears on the right; and further on,
a single thorny-acacia is seen on the same side. Here the traveler
must dismount, and climb the steep and diﬂicult mountain side imme-
diatel opposite the tree. If he sets out in the angle, he can hardly
miss his object.—On the left hand sIOpe are two tablets of hierogly-
phics, besides some attempts at excavation which have been discontin-
ued. On the right hand slope of the recess are four more; and further
round on the same side, still two more, under the shelter of a projecting
ledge :—one might say, in a little cave. Of these two, one is ﬁnished;
the other only just begun. What can these inscriptions mean,—high
up such a wild, retired mountain, and unﬁnished?

Niebuhr discovered, and after him Laborde and other travelers visited,
a group of Egyptian mortuary stones (as is supposed) near N aszeb, on
the more northern road which Burckhardt took; and an account of them
is given by Laborde.’ Of this group Burckhardt saysi—“ It seems
to be a custom prevalent with the Arabs in every part of the desert, to
have regular burial-grounds, whither they carry their dead, sometimes

' Journey through Arabia Petrwa. &c., p. 80 (English translation).
1’ Travels in Syria and the Holy Land, p. 482.

20

