116 nuns urn.

thing which couldbe commred to it.”' I was never tired of gazing
at the Osirides, everywhere, and trying to imprint ineﬁ’aceably on my
memory the characteristics of the old Egyptian face ;—the handsome
arched nose, with its delicate nostril; the well-opened, though long
eye; the placid, innocent mouth, and the smooth-rounded, amiable
chin. Innocence is the prevailing expression; and sternuess is absent.
Thus the stiﬁ'est ﬁgures, and the most monotonous gesture, convey
still only an impression of dispassionateness and benevolence. The
dignity of the gods and goddesses is beyond all description, from this
union of ﬁxity and benevolence. The difﬁculty to us now is, not to
account for their having been once worshiped, but to help worship-
ing them still. I cannot doubt their being the most abstract gods that
men of old ever adored. Instead of their being engaged in wars or
mutual rivalries, or favoritisms, or toils, or suﬁ'erings, here they sit,
each complete and undisturbed in his function,—every one supreme,—
free from all passion, but capable of all mild and serene aﬁ'ections.
The Greek and Roman gods appear like wayward children beside
them. Herodotus says that the Greek gods were children to these in
respect of agedL and truly they appear so in respect of wisdom and
maturity. Their limitation of powers, and consequent struggles, rival-
ries and transgressions, their fondness and vindictiveness, their anger,
fear and hope are all attributes of childhood, contrasting strikingly
with the majestic passive possession of power, and the dispassionate
and benignant frame of these ever-young old deities of Egypt. Vigi-
lant, serene, benign, here they sit, teaching us to inquire reverently into
the early powers and conditions of that Human Mind which was capa-
ble of such conceptions of abstract qualities as are represented in their
forms. I can imagine no experience more suggestive to the thoughtful
traveler, anywhere from pole to pole, than that of looking with a clear
eye and fresh mind on the ecclesiastical sculptures of Egypt, perceiv-
ing, as such an one must do. how abstract and how lofty were the ﬁrst
ideas of Deity known to exist in the world. That he should go with
clear eyes and a fresh mind is needful: for if he carries a head full of
notions about idolatry, obscenity, folly and ignorance, he can no more
judge of what is before his eyes,—he can no more see what is before
his face, than a proud Mohammedan can apprehend Christianity in a
Catholic chapel at Venice, or an arro nt Jew can judge of Quakerism or
Quietism. If the traveler be blesse with the clear eye and fresh mind.
and be also enriched by comprehensive knowledge of the workings of
the human intellect in its various circumstances, he cannot but be im-
pressed and he may be startled, by the evidence before him of the ele-
vation and beauty of the ﬁrst conceptions formed by men of the Beings
of the unseen world. And the more he traces downwards th'e histo

and philosophy of religious worship, the more astonished he will be to
ﬁnd to what an extent this early theology originated later systems of
belief and adoration, and how long and how far it has transcended
some of those which arose out of it. New suggestions will thence

' Relation dc l‘Egypte, l. L ch. 4. 1' Herod. II. 4, 50, 58, 146.

