46 nurses LIFE.

river, or come forth from the hill-sides of the interior, when the cloud of
sand had been wafted away! The ruins which we now go to study,
might then appear occupying only eminences, while below might be
ranges of pylons, miles of colonnade, temples intact. and gods and god-
desses safe in their sanctuaries. What quays along the Nile, and the
banks of forgotten canals! What terraces, and ﬂights of wide shallow
steps! What architectural stages might we not ﬁnd for a thousand miles
along the river, where now the orange sands lie so smooth and light as
to show the track,—the clear foot-print—of every beetle that comes out
to bask in the sun l—But it is better as it is. If we could once blow
away the sand, to discover the temples and palaces, we should next
want to rend the rocks, to lay Open the tombs; and heaven knows what
this would set us wishing further. It is best as it is; for the time has
not come for the full discovery of the treasures of Egypt. It is best

* as it is. The sand is a ﬁne means of preservation; and the present

inhabitants perpetuate enough of the names to serve for guidance when
the day for exploration shall come. The minds of scholars are pre-
paring for an intelligent interpretation of what a future age may ﬁnd:
and science, chemical and mechanical, will probably supply such
means hereafter as we have not now, for treating and removing the
sand, when its conservative ofﬁce has lasted long enough. We are not
worthy yet of this great unveiling: and the inhabitants are not, from
their ignorance, trustworthy as spectators. It is better that the world
should tvait, if only care be taken that the memory of no site now
known be lost. True as I feel it to be that we had better wait, I was
for ever catching myself in a speculation. not only on the buried trea-
sures of the mounds on shore, but on means for managing this obsti-
nate sand.

And yet, vexatious as is its presence in many a daily scene, this sand
has a bright side to its character,——like everything else. Besides its
great oﬂice of preserving unharmed for a future age the records of the
oldest times known to man, the sand of the desert has, for many
thousand years, shared equally with the Nile the function of determin-
ing the character and the destiny of a whole people, who have again
operated powerfully on the characters and destiny of other nations.
Everywhere, the minds and fortunes of human races are mainly deter-
mined by the characteristics of the soil on which they are born and
reared. In our own small island, there are, as it were, three tribes of
peOple, whose lives are much determined still, in spite of all modern
facilities for intercourse, by the circumstance of their being born and
reared on the mineral strip to the west,—-the pastoral strip in the mid-
dle,—or the eastern agricultural portion. The Welsh and Cornwall
miners are as widely diﬂ'erent from the Lincolnshire or Kentish hus-
bandmen, and the LeiCestershire herdsmen, as Englishmen can be from
Englishmen. Not only their physical training is different; their in-
tellectual faculties are differently exercised, and their moral ideas and
habits vary accordingly. So it is in every country where there is a
diversity of geological formation: and nowhere is the original consti-
tution of their earth so strikingly inﬂuential on the character of its

