BBYT-BL-WILLI. 133

ing forth to view these elaborate old paintings. The colors came out
bright and deep as on the day they were laid on—so many thousand
years ago! Every moment, the details of the costume and features
showed themselves on the kingly ﬁgure I was unveiling; the red and
ellow pattern on the crown, and the ﬂagellum: the armlets, bracelets,
lts, and straps ; the ends of the sash; the folds of the garment, and
its wrapping over above the knee; the short mantle, the vest, the tip-
pet or necklaces, and the devices of the throne. It began to grow dusk
before we had ﬁnished two ﬁgures; and, indeed, I cannot say that we
completely ﬁnished any; for a slight ﬁlminess spread over the paintings
as they dried, which showed that another rubbing was necessary. I
did long to stay a whole day, to clean the entire temple; but this could
not be done. I was careful to give a dry-rubbing to our work before
we left it, that no inj-u might afterwards arise from damp; and I trust
our attempt may et so visibly recorded on the Walls as to induce
some careful trave er to follow our example, and restore. more of these
ancient paintings.

The sculptures on the outside, on either hand of the approach, are
now quite destitute of color; and it does not seem to he wanted here, so
ﬁnished are the details—On one side we see Ramases on his throne,
receiving a werld of wealth in the shape of tribute from the conquered
Ethiopians. The Prince of Cash and his two children, all captives,
are brought up by the eldest- son of the conqueror; the names of all the
parties being afﬁxed in hieroglyphic characters. We see. piles of os-
trich’s eggs, ha of gold, and ornaments; and array of fans, elephants’
teeth, leopard s ins, and other southern wealth; a troop of Ethiopians
bringing an Oryx (antelope), a lion, oxen and gazelles: and in the
lower line of tribute-bearers, we see apes and a camelopard. These
articles are admirable likenesses; and the whole procession is a most
lively spectacle. But the battleascene at the outer end is remarkably
interesting, from the representation given of the wildness of the enemy’s
country. The foe are ﬂying into the woods; and a woman cooking
under a tree is warned by her little son that the conqueror is comin .
A wounded chief (of whom she may be the wife), is carried by his s5
diers; and a boy is throwing dust on his head, in token of despair.
The king and his two sons are in separate chariots, each with his cha-
rioteer: and the king is discharging his arrows as he oes.-—Else-
where on these walls, the king is his own charioteer, having the reins
fastened round his waist, that his arms may be left free. The animals
are, as usual in these old sculptures, admirably done; the heads of the
oxen appearing to my eye‘ as good in their quiet way as the bull of
Paul Potter, in his more vehement mood.

The foe on the Opposite wall is supposed to be some people in Ara-
bia Penman—Eastern at all events. We have the conqueror again, on
his throne, with his lion reposing at its base; in his car; in single com-
bat, and in the act of slaying his foes. We have a walled cit ; and
the other accompaniments of these war-pictures: but the Et iopian
tribute, and the woman cooking at her ﬁre in the wood are more inte-
resting to the observer of this day. ’

