68 mamas: use.

curious grave-stones, inscribed in the Cuﬁc character. The marks of
the workmen’s tools are as distinct as ever on the granite of the quar-
ries. There are the rows of holes for the wooden pegs or wedges
which, being wetted, expanded and split the stone. There are the
grooves and the notches made, by men who died several thousands of

ears ago, in preparation for works which were never done. There
are the playful or idle scratches made by men of old in a holiday mood.
And there, too, is the celebrated obelisk, about which, I must take
leave to say, some mistakes are current at this day.

It may look like triﬂing to spend any words on the actual condition
of an obelisk in the quarry: but, if we really wish to know how the
ancients set about works which modern men are unable to achieve, we
must collect all the facts we can about such works, leaving it for time
to show which are important and which are not. We spend many
words in wondering what could be the mechanical powers known to
the old Egyptians, by which they could detach, lift, carry, and dress
such massess of stone as our resources are wholly inadequate to deal
with. When we chance to meet with one such mass in a half-ﬁnished
state, it is surely worth while to examine and report upon its marks
and peculiarities, however unaccountable, as one step towards learning
hereafter, how they came there.

This obelisk was declared, by a traveler who judged naturally by
the eye, to be lying there unﬁnished because it was broken before it
was completely detached from the rock. Other travelers have repeated
the tale,—one measuring the mass, and taking for granted that an irre-
gular groove along the upper surface was the “ crack,”—-the “ ﬁssure ;”
and another, comfortably seated on an ass, not even getting down to
touch it at all. Our friend, Mr. E., was not satisﬁed without looking
into things with his own eyes and his own mind: and he not only
measured and poked in the sand, but cleared out the sand from the
grooves till he had satisﬁed himself that there is no breakage or crack
about the obelisk at all.» _

The upper surface is (near the centre of its length) about two feet
broad: and there is every appearance of the other three sides having
the same measuremeng—as the guide says they have,—allowing for
the inequalities of the undressed stone. There is no evidence that it
is not wholly detached from the rock. Of course, we moderns cannot
move it; but the guide declares that, when cleared of sand, a stick may
be passed under in every part. And it seems improbable that the apex
of the obelisk should be reduced to form before‘the main body is severed
from the rock.—As for the supposed “ ﬁssure,” it is. certainly a care-
fully wrought groove, and no crack. Its sides are as smooth as any
tablet; and its breadth appears to be uniform :—about an inch wide at
the top. Itsdepth is about three inches; and it is smooth and sound
all along the bottom. Near it is a slight fault in the stone; askin-
deep crack,—-little more than a roughness of the surface. Across the
upper face were some remarkable holes. Besides those which are
‘usually prepared for wedges or pegs, there were two deep grooves,
slanting and not parallel. If they had been straight and parallel, we

