832 mamas we.

considered not merely as an emblem, but as the most sacred of all ani-
mals.”—“ Strabo, Clemens, and many other writers, notice the sacred
character of the sheep; and the two former state that it was looked
upon with the same veneration in the Sa'ite nome as in the neighbor-
hood of Thebes_.”'I And such resemblances are found throughout the
whole institution. The great point of. difference is the precautionary
arrangement of Moses that the Hebrews should have but one temple,
and one great altar of sacriﬁce; an ordinance which was afterwards
broken through, with consequences fatal to the singleness of Hebrew
worship.

One particular of the Mosaic practices stands out above most others
in curiosity and importance. Magical arts and divination were forbid-
den to the Hebrews, for a reason which is obvious enough. These
were connected—perhaps scientiﬁcally and truly, certainly in the papu-
lar mind—with astrology; and the permission of them would have led
directly to the planetary worship which was, above everything, to be
dreaded in the approach of the Hebrews to Canaan, where that wor-
ship prevailed. But one exception was permitted. The High-priest,
and he alone, was to have recourse to an Oracle, and to be the inter-
preter of it. He was to ascertain the Divine pleasure by consulting
his breast-plate—the Oracle of the Urim and Thummim. As we al
know. this was the Sacred Oracle of the Hebrews for many centuries.
The Scriptures cite it up to the time of David. The words Urim and
Thummim mean “Light and Truth,” or “Justice ;” and the article it-
self is called the “breast-plate of Judgment.” Now, the goddess of
Truth or Justice in Egypt was Thmei; and an Egyptian judge wore:
suspended round his neck by a gold chain, a ﬁgure of this goddess,
studded with precious stones: and his way of pronouncing his decision
was by touching the successful applicant with this ﬁgure. Moreover,
Sir G. Wilkinson presents to net an Egyptian breast-plate containing
the ﬁgures of the Sun (Ba), and Thmei—“ Light and Truth,” or “Jus-
tice ;”—the Sun, Ra, being King among the gods, and the Urei§, the
royal asps, being the symbols of majesty throughout the Egyptian sys-
tem.

And such as these were the forms, such as these the visible and tan-
gible media of communication with Jehovah which here took the place
of that direct intercourse between God and his people which Moses
had hoped to see established! He had brought them to this “ Mount
of God," if not full of heart and hope, at least with a steady faith in
their elevation to the simple patriarchal allegiance which had been the
privilege of their fathers. In how different a mood he saw them de-
part! They came “bringing no vain oblation,” but the offering, he
trusted, of obedient and hapeful hearts. Now, he was to see them,—
from this mountain where we stood—depart on their way to the Pro-
mised Land—their backs bending under the burden of the sanctuary
and sacred paraphernalia, which be well knew to have less holiness in

' Ancient Egyptians, V. 191, 192. 1' Ibid. II. 26. I Ibid. V. 28.
5 Suggested by Lord Prudhoe. Cited in Ancient Egyptians, II. 27, n.

