nacus: or was Hosanna. lll

Jews then in Egypt were emancipated by this Ptolemy; and they em-
ployed their inﬂuence with him in obtaining, by his countenance, a
good Greek translation of their Scriptures. By communication with
the High Priest at Jerusalem. there came about an appointment of
seventy qualiﬁed men who translated the Hebrew Scriptures into
Greek,‘and presented the world with the version called the Septuagint.
The chronolo y of this work diﬁ'ers widely from that given by the
Samaritan an Hebrew versions; the Septuagint assigning between
Adam and Abraham, nearly 1400 years more than the Hebrew; and
so on. For a long course of time, the learned and religious world
believed that the discrepancy between the Septuagint and (so-called)
Mosaic histories was ascribable toforgery on the part of the Alex-
andrian Jews. But now that chronological evidence is ﬂowing in from
other sources, the judgment of biblical scholars is becoming favorable
to the Septuagint computation. 0f course,.it becomes at the same time
more accordant with the recorded history of Egypt.

In the reign of the third Ptolemy lived Eratosthenes,—a truly great
scholar and wise mam—called the second Plato, and also the second
of the‘ ﬁrst man in every science. He was a Greek, understanding
Egyptian: and he wrote a history of Egypt in correction of that of
Manetho. Their statements, their lists of kings, appear at ﬁrst sight
irreconcilable. This is not the place in which to give an account of
the difﬁculty. It is enough to say that the attention of scholars has
been employed upon it to good purpose; and that it may be hoped that
two men, reasonably believed so- trustworthy, will be found, when we
can understand them, to have told the same story, and to have sup-
plied us with new knowledge by the very difference in their way of tell-
i it. , .
ngOne greatevent must be noticed before we go on from the dominion
of the Ptolemies to that of Rome. The Ptolemies‘degenerated, as
royal races are apt to do; and after‘a few of their reigns, the Egyptians
became as heartily tired of their Greek rulers as they had been of the
Persian. In the time of the eighth and ninth sovereigns of this line,
Thebes rebelled, and maintained a long resistance against the authority
and forces of Ptolemy Lathyrus. The temples were stout citadels, in
which the besieged could seclude themselves: and they held them long.
When Ptolemy Lathyrus prevailed at last, he made dreadful havoc at
Thebes. ' Cambyses had done wonders in the way of destruction : but
Lathyrus far exceeded him. As one walks over the plain of Thebes,
whose ﬁnal overthrow dates from this conﬂict, one’s heart sickens
among the ruins made by the Persian, the Greek and the Earthquake.
To the last of these, one submits quietly, though mournfully, as to a
Fate: but those who do not regard men as necessary agents,—agents
of an exact necessity in human history,—may ﬁnd their spirits rising
in resentment against the long-buried invaders, as the spirits of the
Thebans rose in resentment while they looked out upon their besiegers
from the loopholes of their lofty propyla. This greatest and last act
of devastation took place 88 s. c.; ﬁfty-eight years before Egypt became
a Roman province. ‘

