314 usual: Lin.

accounts,the gentlemen concerned with the Prior thought him rapacions,
—as former priors have been considered by former travelers; and this,
after every regard being paid to his isolated position, and the circum-
stances of his. establishment. Within the convent, everything is done
by the monks themselves, who are educated to their respective oﬁces.
A tribe of Arabs are the outdoor servants or serfs of the establishment,
—being employed to fetch and carry. bring wood and prepare charcoal,
keep the sheep and goats, and spin the wool; dcc. : in return for which
ofﬁces, they are fed according to their need.

On the-Sunday morning, some of the gentlemen went to early mass,
—at six,-—and thought the ceremonial and appurtenances very superb.
Our company were free to have their own service in the morning: and
we made a quiet day of it, merely going out in the afternoon for a walk
in the nei hboring wadees. Some of us studied the outside of the con—
vent and its garden, and went to see the ravine by which we were to
ascend the next day to Sinai Proper, or Djebel Mensa. It did not look
very formidable; and we were happy to observe that we should have
shade on our side of the mountain for nearly the whole time.

By the same hour the next day,I was convinced that, of the many
mountains I have climbed, Sinai is the easiest of ascent. I found
really no fatigue at all in it. Much of our case was, no doubt, owing
to the deep shade in which our path lay: but something also to the
steps which are still available for the greater part of the way. Ac-
cording to tradition, and to all appearance, there was formerly one long
staircase from the base of Horeb to the pinnacle of Djebel Mousa; the
number of steps being variously reported as from fourteen to ﬁfty thou-
sand. It is the greatest possible help, in ascending a mountain, to be
saved all uncertainty of footing. With this advantage, shade, water,
and plenty of time, we found the expedition as easy as it was interest-
tn .
gWithin half an hour we arrived at the well-known spring of ice-cold
water, which lay dark in its pool within the rock, fringed with the deli-
cate fern dropping out of every crevice. The next striking object was
the arch spanning the road which marks this as a sacred journey. The
effect is strange, of a portal erected in a ravine,—a sort of leave of access
to the mountain top : and the distant views new opening are exceed-
ingly impressive when seen through the arch. Soon after, the uide
cried out “ Half way,” and the least able of us felt that we shou d all
reach the summit. Next, we arrived at the plain at the top of Horeb;
the plain from which spring the peaks of Moses and of St. Catherine,
and some others. In the midst stands, in mournful solitude, a cypress,
planted by the monks a hundred years ago: and near it, the poor little
chapel of St. Elias. We had already passed the small chapel of Santa
Maria. In this plain it was, according to the Kurin, that Moses com-
municated with God; and we ﬁnd many Arabic inscriptions here cut
on the stones by Mohammedan devotees. In their belief, this is the top
of Horeb, and the holiest place. They have a mosque, however, on
the summit of Djebel Mouse, a few paces from the Christian church
which occupies the highest pinnacle.

