600 um“ mu.

ancient Christian cathedral converted into a mosque. We could not
enter it, but we daily looked into it from the bazaars. Its court was
large, light and airy, adorned with Corinthian pillars, and with square:
of marble mosaic. What more we saw of it was by climbing up tea
house-top by ladders. to view what remains of its grand entrance. This
remnant of early Christian zeal looks mournful enough. The rid
pediment and pillars—the pediment shattered, and three of the six pil-
lars decapitated—are hidden and almost lost among sordid Arab dwell-
ings; and the Christian is excluded from courts which were builtatd
adorned by Christian hands.

There is a place, two miles from Damascus, which is visited by
people of all the three faiths—Jobah, declared, and reasonably. to be
the place indicated in Genesis XIV. 15, as Hobah, whither Abraham
went in pursuit of Lot, who had been carried away :—“ unto Hobab.
which is on the leftside of Damascus.” Iown that one chief interest
of Damascus and its environs is in their undisputed antiquity. Totht
synagogue at Jobah, however, another interest pertains. It is believed
by the Jews that the Law was preserved here when Titus bestegﬁi
Jerusalem ; and there are now thirty-six copies of the Law there which
are considered very valuable. On the ﬂoor of this synagogue is shown
a space railed in, to commemorate a deed which we should all be glld
to forget—whether it be fact or mere imputation.‘ The spot isssld
(but no one believes it) to be that where Elisha anointed Haziel K”!
of Syria. We were next taken down, by four or ﬁve steps, to a very
small grotto, where, as we were assured, Elijah was fed by ravens-
there having once-been a window through which the birds could
him. ‘

The house of Naaman is shown: but our friends advised us not10
go. It is converted into a Christian Leper Hospital; and there is more
useless pain in visiting it than the occasion is worth. Dr. Tame
physician, told me that the lepers are chieﬂy scrofulous subjects; I
that damp and poor diet are the greatdisposing causes of leprosy. _
disease is not found to be contagious, no instances being known of )5
aﬂ'ecting those who dress the sores of the patients. In the young. "1‘
cipient leprosy may often be combated: but for adults, nothing can't"
done beyond alleviation. They suffer much and long, usually dyms
of tubercular or related diseases, at last. Itcertainly appears, howeveﬁ
that this is one of the diseases destined to die out under the spread 0‘
civilization. ‘ ' -

In the course of our rides, we were repeatedly conducted by 0‘"
hospitable friends to the Cafés in the environs, which are so celebra
wherever Damascus is heard of. How astonished our families at home
would have been to see us in a magic glass at such seasons of refreSh‘
ment! They would have seen us sitting under a trellise of vines.“
round a reservoir, with a row of nargeelehs before us, and coffee 3
ices at hand ;—a brook, containing the waters of the old Pharpaf’
ﬂowing. into the garden, among plots of vegetables and thickets of int“

" 2 Kings VIII. 7—15.

—.——_‘_4

