44 ' names urn.

Abraham might have seen them, if he had come so far up the country.
One race of those old times remains ;—the wolves. They were sacred
here (Asyoot being the Lycopolis of the Greek times) ; their mummies
are in many pits of the Djebel; and we saw the tracks of two in the
dust of the caves.—The cave called Stabl d’Antar (Stable of the Ar-
chitect) is lofty and large ;—about seventy-two feet by thirty-six. Its
ceiling is covered with patterns which we should call Greek borders
anywhere else: but this ceiling is older than Greek art. The colors
were chieﬂy blue, light gray and white. The colors of the hierogly-

hic sculptures were red and blue,—-the blue predominating. Two
arge ﬁgures ﬂanked the portal; one much defaced; the other'nearly
perfect.

I have since seen so much of the old Egyptian monuments, and
they have become so familiarly interesting to me, that I look back
with amusement to this hour of my ﬁrst introduction to hieroglyphics
and burial caves. I can scarcely believe it was only a few months
ago,——so youthful and ignorant seem now the feelings of mere curiosity
and wonder with which I looked upon such painting and sculpture as
afterwards became an intelligible language to me. I do not mean by
this that I made any attempts to learn the old Egyptian language or
its signs,—beyond a few of the commonest symbols. Itis a kind of
learning which requires the devotion of years; and it is perhaps the
only kind of learning of which a smattering can be of no use, and may
. probably be mischievous.—I remember being extremely surprised at
the amount of sculptured inscriptions here,—little imagining what a mere
sprinkling they were compared with what I should see in other places.

In the succession of chambers within, and in the caves above, we
found ranges of holes for the deposit of wolf mummies, and pits for
the reception of cofﬁns. The roofs of some of these caves had been
supported by large square pillars, whose capitals remain attached, while
the shafts are gone. This gave us a hint of the architectural adorn-
ment of which we were to see so much hereafter in the tombs of Thebes
and Benee Hasan. In the corner of a tomb lay a human skull, the
bone of which was remarkably thick. Many bones and rags of mummy
cloth lay scattered about. On the side of the hill below, we found a

eg and foot. The instep was high by compression, but very long.
There was also a skull, wrapped in mummy-cloth; not fragrant enough
now, for all its antique spicery, to bring away.

In the pits of these caves were the mummies lying when Cambyses
was busy at Thebes, overthrowing the Colossus in the plain. And long
after, came the upstart Greeks, relating here their personal adventures
in India under their great Alexander, and calling the place Lycopolis,
and putting a wolf on the reverse of their local coins. And, long after,
came the Romans, and called Lycopolis the ancient name of the place,
and laid the ashes of their dead in some of the caves. And long after,
came the Christian anchorites, and lived a hermit life in these rock
abodes. Among them was John of Lycopolis, who was consulted as
an oracle by the Emperor Theodosius, as by many others, from his
supposed knowledge of futurity. A favorite eunuch, Eutropius, was

