210 um am;

and of which no idea can be conveyed ; but there is a thing yet more
worthy of admiration; and that is the precision of their forms, the just-
ness of their proportions, and their resemblance to nature.” -And then
this anatomist goes on to show what are the requisites to the perfect
representation of the human frame, with its muscular niceties, and con-
tinues: “ There are some of these statues which hold in their hands a
kind of cylinderr—probably a roll of writing: and the artist has not
forgotten to represent the folds and wrinkles which are formed in the
skin of the hand when it is closed, towards the outer part by the little
ﬁnger. The beauty of the face of these statues, and the perfect propor-
tions which are observed there, are such as the most excellent art of men
alone can effect, and the best that“ such a substance as stone can re-
ceive. There is nothing wanting but the ﬂesh and the blood. The
ﬁgure of the ear, its orifice, and its sinuosities, are given to perfection.—
I have seen two lions placed Opposite and near to each other: their
aspect inspired terror. Notwithstanding their colossal size, so far he-

ond nature, all the truth of form and proportion had been preserved.

hey have been broken, and covered with earth.”-—“ A man of good
sense, seeing all these remains of antiquity, feels disposed to excuse
that error 0 the vulgar which supposes that men of distant ages lived
much longer than those of our times: that they were of gigantic sta-
ture: and that by means of a wand With which they struck the stones,
the stones obeyed their will, and transported themselves wherever they
were desired. We remain indeed in a sort of stupor when we consi-
der how much of nius, of resolution and of patience, must have been
united with a pro ound knowledge of geometr , to execute such works:
what different instruments from any that we linow of must have been
employed; and what obstinate labor: and to what point these men
have studied the structure of animals and of men.”* '

These are some few particulars of what Abdallatif saw among these
ruins of Mchhis, which in his day occupied a space of balf-a-day’s
journey. At the end of seven centuries, the aspect of the place is this.
From the village of Mitrahenny (which now occupies the sife), can be
seen only palm woods,a blue pond, rushes, and a stretch of verdant
ground, token into hollows, where lie 9. single colossus, a single capital
of a column, a half-buried statue of red. granite, twelve feet hi h, and
some fragments of granite strewn among the palms. This is al of the
mighty Memphis!

he colossus is the celebrated Ramases’ statue, given to the British
Museum by Signor Caviglia and Mr. Sloane, but left in its grassy hol-
low on account of the expense. It is very beautiful. The serene and
cheerful face is like that of the Colossi at Aboo-Simbil, but more beau-
tiful. Each hand holds a scroll, with a cartouche at the end. There
it lies, for the Nile to flow over it every year, and the s to growup
round it when the waters have retired. It lies on its ace: but by go-
ing down into the hollow, we could obtain a good view of the features,
which are as sharp cut, and almost as delicately ﬁnished, as any of

' Relation de l’Egypte, Livre I. Ch. 4.

