454 mu am.

very well where the mule was; that he would come, and Gondola, and
offer his services, and recommend that one of our muleteers should
be left behind :—that in a day or two, the beast would be declared
found upon the mountain, having simply strayed; and that a sum of
money would be asked for the trouble of ﬁnding it,—while it was, no
doubt, all the while safe enough in a stable in the town. Suchns
Alee’s view of the case, as an experienced man.

Presently the Governor came, and looked very solemn over his cof-
fee: and his advice was that a muleteer should be left behind—40 meet
us at Nazareth, after our excursion to Mount Carmel. This business
delayed our departure, so that I had time to see something of this re-
spectable Djeneen. The respectable homicide appropriately offered
his services as escort to two of us who were disposed to walk; and
nothing could be more courteous than his behaviour. We were told
that he had a very good case: that there was an old blood feud between
his family and that of his victim, and that he had received excessive
provocation. He was a ﬁne-looking personage—not only tall and
digniﬁed, but with an open and gentle expression of countenance.
Under his guidance, we saw the outside of the Governor’s house, the
café to which the smokers and news-mongers repair ;—-(this day. to
talk over our mule, no doubt ;)—a poor, half-empty bazaar, and a
mosque which had four marble Corinthian pillars before it. We retu
through an orange grove, which was in full blossom. Hitherto, I had
seen nothing like it. Abderrahman gave us noble bunches of the blos-
soms, which we kept fresh for some days.

A large, ruined building, like a fort, crowned an eminence near our
camp: and from this I saw something which I should not have dreamed
of looking for. I saw snow on a mountain peak to the north-east.
This mountain was Djebel Sheikh, the last peak of the Antilihanu!
range, and that which closes in the valley of the Jordan to the north-

We got to horse before ten o’clock—not yet out of Samaria. bi“
rejoicing that our next rest was to be among the hills of Galilee.

 

CHAPTER VII.

PLAIN 0F ESDRAELON.—NAZARETH.——RIDE TO MOUNT CARMEL—-
CONVENT 0F MOUNT CARMEL.—ACRE.——RETURN T0 NAZARETH-

Tm: Plain of Esdraélon is as lovely in itself as it is interesting from
its associations. It extends in great vastness before the eye; but there
is no part, if I remember rightly, which is not visibly enclosed by bill:-
lmmediately behind us, to the south, rose the hills of Samaria which
we had just crossed. To the south-east, the plain extended back {01’
a considerable distance behind Djeneen, there supporting the Gilboa
range, where Saul and Jonathan laid down their lives together. Thy!
cluster of hills was the spot where the mighty had fallen, when Damd
lamented in one strain the father and the son, his inveterate persecute!

 

 

 

