140. assume ml.

shared the lot of the humblest worm bred in the mud of the Nile ; but
he was the only member of the heavenly society, the only one of the
sons of the Supreme, who came upon earth to make him known: and
he thus took rank above them all.

It is impossible not to perceive that Osiris was to the old Egyptians
what the Messiah is to be to the Jews; and what another has been to
the Christians. The nature, character and ofﬁces of Osiris, and the
sacred language concerning him are so coincident with those most
interesting to Christians as“ to compel a very careful attention on the
part of inquirers into Egyptian antiquities. Various solutions of the
extraordinary fact have been oﬂ‘ered. Some who hold to the literal
historical truth of the book of Genesis suggest,“ their conjecture, that
Noah may have foreknown everything relating to the coming of Christ,
even to t e language which should be used concerning him by sacred
writers: and that his descendants may have communicated all this to
the ancient Egyptians, who made a God out of the rophecy and its
adjuncts! Others have endeavored to make out sucli personal inter-
course between Pythagoras and some of the Hebrew prophets on the
one hand, and the Egyptian priests on the other, as might account for
the parallelism in questiona‘ Others would have us understand it by
concluding that the latest Egyptian priests were disciples of Plato, and
put their own Platonising interpretations on the character of Osiris, as
the Platonising Christians did on that of Christ. Others again, who
see that ideas are the highest subject of human cognizance, the history
of ideas the only true history, and a common holding of ideas the only
real relation of human beings to each other, believe that this great con-
stellation of ideas is one and the same to all these diﬁ'erent peo—
ples; was sacred to them all in turn, and became more noble and more
glorious to men’s minds as their minds became strengthened by the
nourishment and exercise of ages. It is a fact which on ht to be at-
tended to while considering the various solutions offered, that the cha-
racter and oﬂices of Osiris were certainly the same in the centuries
which preceded the birth of Abraham,——in the very earliest times known
to us,——as after the death of Pythagoras and Plato. This is proved by
the sculptures in the oldest monuments. We see in the tombs cotem-
Ezrary with the Pyramids that Osiris was to men then living the same

nefactor and ﬁnal judge that he was to the subjects of the Ptolemies.1

As Osiris was the manifestation of the goodness of the Supreme
Bein , he was naturally identiﬁed with the most obvious beneﬁts for
whic ‘the old Egyptians desired to be thankful: and to them the great-
est of benefits was the Nile. Hence arose one of their most beautiful
traditionary ﬁctions: that his body was deposited in the cataract, whence
he arose once a year, to spread blessings over the earth. Hence he
was called also the author of agriculture, as the inundation may be well
considered. Hence he is made to say, in one of the most ancient in-
scriptions, that he is the eldest son of time, and cousin to the day; and

' Wilkinson’s Ancient Egyptians, IV. 188.
'I' Bayle, Art. Pythagoras, Note It.
I Wilkinson’s Ancient Egyptians, IV. 323.

