use or none. 315

We were now about three quarters of an hour from the'convent; and
there was anotherhalf hour’s climbing before us. The ascent here
became steeper; but it was still easy. Near the summit we saw wider
and wilder views than before, through a second arch. 'At‘the top, we
followed the advice of our guide in restin and refreshing ourselves in‘
the shade of the convent, before lookin a ut us in the glaring sun. I
thought I had never seen such sunlig t, as it streamed into the dark
vaulted chamber, through and over the ﬁne group- of Arab boys who
ﬁlled up the doorway.

What a view it was when we came out! Burckhardt missed it,
through the provoking accident of a thick fog. As for us, we saw
everything radiantly that came within the capacity of the eye‘at all.
For a vast distance round, it was one billowy expanse of brown sum-
mits, arid beyond description, and unrelieved‘ by any variety of color,
or by any glimpse of valley or plain. This summit is certainly not
visible from any plain: and, in regard to that consideration, it is not
superior in its claims to Serbal. Serbal rose ﬁnely above a nearer
ridge. Some of us thought we could discern the sea on that side; but
we remained uncertain about it. The other sea line, the Gulf of Akaba,
was plain enough, a line of gray between two of sand. To the north,
there was the relief of a white ridge above the desolate brown ;—-hills
in the El Tiheh region. The scene was altogether strange and deso-
late ;-—most like one’s notion of an antecedent age of our globe,—-a time
before man was created, when deep calling to deep, and thunders re-
spOnding to thunders. and monsters slow moving in wildernesses, had
the world all to themselves. I am thankful to have seen it; for, whe-
ther it be one of the historical holy places or not, its singular wildness
renders it quite sacred enough.

We found the descent perfectly easy, and had the advantage of a cool
breeze, in addition to the shade. We returned quite untired, and lost
no time in making our arrangements for an ascent of Horeb, the next

a .

in the morning, it appeared that only six of our fourteen would un-
dertake the more laborious work of to—day. Of these six, I was one.—
The expedition proved so much more interesting than even that of yes-
terday, that I was concerned for those who stayed behind.

We left the convent at seven,—after breakfast,—skirting the base of
Horeb till we came to one of the princi al shows of the place,—the
stone in which Aaron moulded the head) of the golden calf. Burck-
hardt speaks of it as “the head of the golden calf, transmuted into
stone,” and continues? “ it is somewhat singular that both the monks
and the Bedoueens call it the cow’s head (Ras el Baker), and not the
- calf ’s, confounding it perhaps with the ‘ red heifer’ of which the Old
Testament and the Kurén speak. It is a stone half buried in the
ground, and bears some resemblance to the forehead of a Cow. Some
travelers have explained this stone to be the mould in which Aaron cast
the calf, though it is not hollow but projecting: the Arabs and monks,

r

' Travels in Syria and the Holy Land, p. 583.

