58 sass-nan urn.

impression exceeded the ﬁrst; and none was like it. Happy the tra-
veler who sees them ﬁrst from afar; that is, who does not arrive at
Thebes by night!

We had not thought of stopping at Thebes on our way up the river:
but we were delighted to ﬁnd that the Rain wanted to have his head
shaved, and Alec to buy a sheep and some bread. We drew to the
El—Uksur (Luxor) shore, and ran up to the ruins. The most conspicu-
one portion from the river is the fourteen pillars which stand parallel
with it, in a double row: but we went ﬁrst to the great entrance to the
temple. I ﬁnd here in my journal the remark which occurs oflener
than any other; that no preconception can be formed of these places.
I know that it is useless to repeat it here; for I meet everywhere at
home people who think, as I did before I went, that between books,
plates, and the stiff and peculiar character of Egyptian architecture and
sculpture, Egyptian art may be almost as well known and conceived
of in England as on the spot. I can only testify, without hope of being
believed, that it is not so; that instead of ugliness, I found beauty; in-
stead of the grotesque, I found the solemn: and where I looked for
rudeness, from the primitive character of Art, I found the sense of the
soul more effectually reached than by works which are the result of
centuries of experience and experiment. The mystery of this fact sets
one thinking, laboriously; I may say, painfully. Egypt is not the
country to go to for the recreation of travel. It is too' suggestive and
too confounding to be met but in the spirit of study. One’s powers of _
observation sink under the perpetual exercise of thought: and the light-
est-hearted voyager, who sets forth from Cairo eager for new scenes
and days of frolic, comes back an antique, a citizen of the world of six
thousand years ago, kindred with the mummy. Nothing but large
knowledge and sound habits of thought can save him from returning
perplexed and home down ;—unless indeed it be ignorance and levity.
A man who goes to shoot crocodiles and ﬂog Arabs, and eat ostrich’s
eggs, looks upon the monuments as so many strange old stone-heaps,
and comes back “bored to death with the Nile ; ” as we were told we
should be. He turns back from Thebes, or from the First Cataract;—
perhaps without having even seen the Cataract, when within a mile of
it, as in a case I know; and he pays his crew to work night and day,
to get back to Cairo as fast as possible. He may return gay and uno
worn: and so may the true philosopher, to whom no tidings of Man in
any age come amiss; who has no prejudices to be painfully weaned
from, and an imagination too strong to be overwhelmed by mystery,
and the rush of a host of new ideas. But for all between these two
extremes of levity and wisdom, a Nile voyage is as serious a labor as
the mind and spirits can be involved in; a trial even to health and tem-
per such as is little dreamed of on leaving home. The labor and care
are well bestowed, however, for the thoughtful traveler can hardly fail
of returning from Egypt a wiser, and therefore a better man. '

There is something very interesting in meeting with a fellow-feeling
in ancient travelers so strong as may be found in the following passage
from Abdallatif with that of some modern Egyptian voyagers. The

