SYRIA AND ITS FAITH.

CHAPTER I.

ENTRANCE UPON THE HIGH LANDS OF SYRIA.—NIMROD‘S TOMB.—
FIELD OF DAMASCUS.—DAMASCUS AND ENVIRONS.—SOME CHA-
RACTERISTICS OF MOHAMMEDANISM.—DAMASCUS AS A RESI-
DENCE.

Tn: ridge which hid Palestine from us was soon passed; and in the
same moment we found ourselves in a new country, with new thoughts,
and among a new pe0ple. On the shrubby hills which we passed over,
under the protection of the towering Djebel Shaikh, we found black-
thorn in blossom, just as it might be in England on the same day
(April 24th). We rode not far beneath the snow, when we had reached
a height equivalent to three-fourths of the height of the Antilibanus
range, which we had on our left hand; and for some miles we passed
among volcanic de'bn's—among heaps of lava, and hillocks of burnt
stones, black and dreary. In the midst of these, in a grassy meadow,
lay a brimming pond, so perfectly round that the geologist of the party
pointed it out as probably the crater of an extinct volcano.—Then there
were upland plains—large table lands, half covered with ﬂocks, show-
ing that we had fairly entered upon the pastoral districts of the East.
The towns and villages did not crown the eminences, or nestle in the
valleys, as in Palestine; but were planted on the sides of the moun-
tain, or in its recesses, on shelves of rock. One, or two of them were
exactly like a set of book-shelves, with houses for volumes; and their
gardens below were on a slope so steep that, if it had not bulged, it is
inconceivable how the soil could be retained. The houses were no
longer of stone, hewn or irregular, but of mud—so smoothly plastered,
and so carefully squared in form, as to carry back our thoughts to Nu-
bia—these being exactly like those neat African huts, except that they
had no pyramidal inclination. The sound of waters was all about us.
Instead of the still pools and gentle springs of Palestine, we had here
a rush of waters on every hand. Artiﬁcial water-courses were above
us on the left hand, and below us on the right; our path was often
ﬂooded where the mountain streams burst, or overﬂowed their channels;
and more than one of the villages seemed almost made up of mills.—
Almost the only feature which was like Palestine was the caves of the
limestone rocks, with their: wrought entrances. After we left the black

