mu. 8!

afterwards told me; the most anxious moment of our adventures. Ales
ﬂew about giving orders amidst the rush of the wind; and the cook
worked at the poling with all his strength. Even at such a moment I‘
could not but be struck with the lights from the kitchen and the cabin
shining on the struggling men and restless sail which were descending
together to the water, and on the ﬁgures of the Rais, Ales and another, -
as they stood on the gunwale, hauling at a rope which was fastened to
the top of the mast. Amidst the many risks of the moment, the chief
was that our tackle would not hold: and a crack was heard now and
then among other awful noises. By this time, the inclination of the
deck was such that it was impossible to stand, and I had to cling with
all my strength to the window of the vestibule. For some time, the
Rais feared to quit his hold of the rope on the gunwale; but at last he
ﬂung it away, threw off his clothes in a single instant, and sprang up
the mast like a cat. His strong arms were what was wanted aloft.
The'sail was got in, and we righted. The standing straight on one’s
feet was like a strange new sensation after such a peril. ‘

It was still some time before we were aﬂoat again; and our crew
were busy in the wacr till we Were quite sorry'for them. When we
drifted off at last, our sail was spread again, and we went seething on
through the opposing currents to ﬁnd our proper anchorage at Wadee
Halfa. And there again we had almost as much difﬁculty as before
in getting in our sail. This is the worst of the latteen sails which
look so pretty, and waft one on so well. We werewrenched about,
and carried down some way before we could moor.

The next morningwas almost as cold as the night: but we preferred
this to heat, as our business to-day was to ride through the western
desert to the rock of Abooseer—the furthest point of our African travel.
Before breakfast, the gentlemen took a short walk-on shore, being
carried over the intervening mud. They saw a small village, and a
school of six scholars. The boys wrote, to the master’s dictation,-
with reed pens, on tablets of wood, smoothed over with some white
substance. They wrote readily, and apparently well. The lesson
was from the Kutin ;' and the master delivered it in a chanting tone.

Two extremely small asses were brought down, to cross with us to
the western bank. We crossed in a ferry-boat, whose sail did not
correspond very well with the climate. It was like a lace veil mended
with ticking. Our ﬁrst visit was to the scanty remains of an interest-
ing old temple near the landing-place. On our way to it, we passed
some handsome children, and a charming group of women under a
large sycamore. We thought the people we saw here—(the most
southerly we should ever see)-open-faced and good-looking. There
are large cattle-yards and sheds in this scarcely-inhabited spot, which
the Pasha has made a halting-place for his droves of cattle from Don-

ola. He continues to import largely from thence, to make up his
osses from the murrain of 1843. We saw two large droves of as
noble beasts as can be seen.

Near the remains of two other unmarked and less interesting build-
ings stand the columns of the temple begun, if not wholly erected by

