ma mm. 201

us, with her daughter. We had a disagreeable drive In the carriage
belonging to the hotel, knocking against asses, horses and peOple all
the way. We alighted at the entrance of a paved passage leading to a
court which we crossed: and then, In a second court, we were before
the entrance of the hareem.

A party of eunuchs stood before a faded curtain, which they held
aside when the gentlemen of our party and the dragoman had gone
forward. Retired some way behind the curtain stood, in a half circle,
eight or ten slave girls, in an attitude of deep obeisance. Two of them
then took charge of each of us, holding us by the arms above the
elbows, to help us up stairs.-—After crossing a lobby at the top of the
stairs, we entered aghandsome apartment, where lay the chief wife,—
at that time an invalid.—The ceiling was gayly painted; and so were
the walls,——the latter with curiously bad attempts at domestic perspec-
tive. There were four handsome mirrors; and the curtains in the
doorway were of a beautiful shawl fabric, fringed and tasseled. A
Turkey carpet not only covered the whole ﬂoor, but was turned up at
the corners. Deewins extended round nearly the whole room,-a
lower one for ordinary use, and a high one for the seat of honor. The
windows, which had a sufﬁcient fence of blinds, looked upon a pretty
garden, where 1 saw orange trees and many others, and the fences were
hung with rich creepers.

On cushions on the ﬂoor lay the chief lady, ill and miserable-looking.
She rose as we entered, but we made her lie down again. and she was
then covered with a silk counterpane. Her dress was, as we saw
when she rose, loose trowsers of blue striped cotton under her black
silk jacket; and the same blue cotton appeared at the wrists,under her
black sleeves. Her head- dress was of black net, bunched out curiously
behind. Her hair was braided down the sides of this head- dress be-
hind, and the ends were pinned over her forehead. Some of the black
net was brought round her face, and under the chin, showing the out-
line of a face which had no beauty in it, nor traces of former beauty,
but which was interesting to-day from her manifest illness and unhap-
piness. There was a strong expression of waywardness and peevish-
uses about the mouth, however. She wore two handsome diamond
rings; and she and one other lady had watches and gold chains. She
complained of her head; and her left hand was bound up: she made
signs by pressing her bosom, and imitating the dandling of a baby,
which, with her occasional tears, persuaded my companions that she
had met with some accident and had lost her infant. On leaving the
hareem, we found that It was not a child of her own that she was
mourning, but that of a white girl in the hareem: and that the wife’ s
illness was wholly from grief for the loss of this baby .—a curious
illustration of the feelings and manners of the place! The children
born In large hareems are extremely few: and they are usually idolized,
and sometimes murdered. It Is known that In the houses at home
which morally most resemble these hareems (though little enough ex-
ternally) when the rare event of the birth of a child happens, a pas-
sionate joy extends over the wretched household :—jars are quieted,

