380 3mm LIFE.

in two or more, we observed niches within this recess. Whether this
looks like urn-burial, or heathen sacriﬁce, pe0ple must judge for them-
selves. In two instances only, we found the ceilings divided super-
ficially into compartments. As for the rest, what we found was pits,
stone deewt’tns, and recesses in rows, like stalls in a stable.—The
capitals of the columns and the cornices were fastened on, and not cut
out of the rock; and afterwards stuccoed and painted. In one case,
the rock had failed, near the top of the temple; and the failure was
supplied by masonry, supported on an arch. The water-courses by
the sides of the temple, and, I think, a horizontal gutter, were plainly
distinguishable here. .

These temples, with their ﬂorid decorations, naturally strike a
stranger more than anything else at ﬁrst,—they mingle so oddly with
the other features of the scene; but one soon neglects them for the far
more interesting excavations of an earlier date. I suppose the primi-
tive abodes (whether of the living or the dead) were those which have
no ornament at all ;-—nothing whatever being done to the outside. But
after these comes another order, specimens of which may be met at
every step. These have their whole exterior in its several parts, where
this can be managed, inclining inwards, in the Egyptian mode; and
sometimes backwards also. Some of the doorways, and many of the
pilasters, diminish towards the top. But the most distinctive mark of
these Arabian abodes is their parapet. From a point in the middle of
the cornice, a ﬂight of steps,—that is, a representation of such in re-
lievo,——retires;—-three, four, or six steps, according to the width of the
building: and a line resting on the top step ﬁnishes the parapet. Some-
times the steps converge from the sides, instead of departing; and then
of course, they meet in a top step. This appears odd, and a fancy
devoid of beauty, at a distance; but it is an ornament appropriate to
the place, and it looks very well there. We may remember that stairs
in the rock were a great blessing to the limbs, and a great beauty in
the eyes, of the inhabitants of this fastness ;—as much so perhaps as
the ﬂuted column in the eyes of Egyptians and Greeks, to whom the
ﬂutings were sheaths for their arms; or the laurel-wreath to the R0-
mans, in whose minds it was associated with ideas of victory. The
steps of these N abathrean (or other Arabian) parapets are homely in the
comparison : but they are a natural device, and, therefore, not a wholly
ungraceful one.

There was nothing in our ramble this morning so'pretty as the ground.
Among the rocks,'there were ﬂowery patches, like gardens. And the
slopes up to the higher excavations, and the platforms and recesses
among the uneven rocks, were carpeted with grass and wild ﬂowers,
and clumped with shrubs. Among many familiar wild ﬂowers, I found
one plant which we never see wild at home. The scarlet anemone
grew richly and abundantly here,--as abundantly as I ever saw poppies
in a ﬁeld.

For some time, we eluded the worst of the rain by running from cave
to cave: but at last, by some accident, the party was scattered. One
group had gone home early,—afraid of the damp: another was ins

