472 ILBTIIN Lin.

teacher must use—appeal to their daily knowledge and observation. to
their social experience, their domestic aﬂ'ections,—in short, their very
commonest aﬂ'airs and interests. He spoke of the kneading of breed.
the bottling of wine, the sowing of seed, the mending of clothes, the
moth and the rust, and the washing of dishes, as well as of throne:
of clouds, and of the lightning which shines from oneend of the heaven
to the other.

The ﬁrst thin I looked for, on coming within sight of the lake, was
ﬁshing boats. had read and heard that we should see none; the
poor and indolent inhabitants having never replaced the last they had,
which was destroyed above thirty years ago : but yet, I could not help
hoping that they might have exerted themselves by this time, to obtain
the means of ﬁshing in their waters. But they ﬁsh merely by casting
nets, thrown from the beach or the rocks: and there was now no boat.
nor any 3' of human activity, as far as we couldsee. Mountains,
valleys an lake all lay dead. At this ﬁrst view,I thoughtI had never
seen a sheet of water so entirely without beauty. Even the Dead Sea
had looked less hot, less dull, and much less insigniﬁcant. This, how-
ever, was the view from a considerable height; and its aspect improved
when we had descended the long, winding road, and Tiberias was in
the foreground, and the waters had become a deep blue, instead of a
leaden gray.

But, of all desolations, that of the town is the worst. Outside, it
has a substantial appearance. from the apparent strength of the walls,
and the number of their towers: but the walls are split and loosened.
and the towers decapitated by the earthquake which laid low the rest
of the city in 1835. Within the gates, there is really scarcely any-
thing left but heaps of ruins. The town is like one vast dust-hole.
swarming with vermin. We found afterwards that our late comrades had
been more prudent than ourselves, and had refused to be housed in the
town. They pitched their tents outside. We permitted ourselves to
be guided to the house of a worthy German Jew, who sincerely desires.
as does his wife, to make his guests comfortable, but who cannot
achieve it in such a place, and such a climate.—Our sitting-room looked
tempting when we entered it; shady, airy, with a newly chalked ﬂoor,
and neat deewt'm,—windows closed only by shn'tters,—chickens chirp-
ing just below them,—and a martin’s nest built on the top of the chain.
from which hangs the lamp in winter. It was no fault of our host’s
that we presently felt as if a fever was coming on,—-breathless and
uneasy. This was the fault of the climate; and for four-and-twenty
hours after, we did not draw a free breath. We had met with some-
thing of this before descending to the Lake: as was proved by our not
having ascended Mount Tabor. I earnestly wished it; but the gentle-
men decreed that it would be imprudent, on account of the heat: and
they promised that we should go to-morrow.

0n the morrow, I did beg hard to be allowed to go : but the whole
party were panting, as if in a vapor bath; my companions were fatigued
by the wretched night they had had: and the gentlemen declared them-
selves actually unable to make the exertion. I felt that I could, and

 

