466 MIN urn.

their respective port ions.‘ Here they came on from the Jordan; and

were halted while this fertile and beautiful plain wasapportionedtothe

tribe of Issachar ;—Issachar who, according, to the blessing in Deutero-

gomy, was to “rejoice in his tents,”f and here had abundant ream b
oso.

Then, when Joshua and all that host whom he led had passed on
through the Valley of the shadow of death, new generations were busy
on their traces. A Kenite woman belonging to a neutral tribe.“ pact
with both the Canaanites and the Hebrews, was at her tent door but
one day, listening as she watched her ﬂock, for the far sounds of battle:
for the great Canaanitish general had collected his iron chariots and
ranged his troops; and Barak, the Hebrew leader, rushed down the
side of Mount Tabor, to meet Sisera in the plain¢ The shock of {at
was fierce, and the swollen river carried off many of the Canaannﬂ
whom the battle had spared. As the Kenite woman, Jael, was aware
that the strife was over, while the evening stillness was settling don
upon the plain, a fugitive, weary, heated and thirsty, came by. She
invited him in, probably in the sincere s irit of the ordinary Eastern
hospitality, which makes the tent of the ost the sanctuary of the $6
-she gave him milk, and laid him down to rest. And then, wh' he
slept heavily, occurred the tempting thought, the devilish suggestion.
the favor she might secure from the conquering party, if she deliver?d
the commander of the foe dead into their hands: and here she rnurdett!‘l
him. That black deed comes up to judgment in this fair scene, like l
poisonous exhalation from the verdant ground.

Next comes a ﬁgure, “taller than any others of the pe0ple by the
shoulders and upwards,”—a man muffled and disguised, with two fol'
lowers at his heels, stealing over the plain in the night, to the dwelling
of the seeress of Endor.§ And through the darkness appeared the sheeted
ghost,—the “ old man with a mantle,” whom Saul dared not look up“
even while pouring out his complaints, and questioning Samuel of his
doom. His restless spirit,—“sore distressed,” as he declaredr—W”
soothed by no deception or equivocal words :—“ to-morrow shalt tho“
and thy sons be with me,” was the warning of the spirit—Alld
next day,—-no further 06' than these heights of Gilboa,—Saul“W|3
sore wounded of the archers,” and, when his armor-bearer would 00‘
dispatch him before the foe came up, he fell upon his own sword-
Here, among these green slopes, “Saul died, and his three sons, .
his armor-bearer, and all his men, that same day together.” And his
armor was hung up in the temple of Astarte, in the nearest town upon
the plain. “ How were the mighty fallen, and the weapons of W81
perished l”ll .

Long after, a stern prophet might be often seen going to and fro In
various directions over this plain. “ What manner of man was he?”
asked King Ahaziah. “ And they answered him, He was a batty
man, and gut with a girdle of leather about his loins. And he stud:

' Joshua I. 12—15. T Deuteronomy XXIII. 18.
I Judges IV. 14—22. § Sdmuel XXVIlL 8—25.
I 2 Samuel L27.

 

 

