392 nuns Lin.

theocracy, was powerful for the objects needed now: but the Hebrew
theocracy was one which did not admit of such a Priest-king as the
Egyptians had: and the Jewish king could act on the religious mind
of his people only through the prestige of his civil oﬁce and his per-
sonal qualities: and then, as the history shows, for one true worshiper,
like David and Josiah, they had many idolaters, or intellectual men,
like Solomon, who played fast and loose with several gods. It was
not in the time of the Judges alone that “ every man did that which -
was right in his own eyes.” .

In this long interval, however, between the death of Moses and the
great centralization which took place in the time of Josiah, the name
and worship of Jehovah were never lost; were never, indeed, so loftily
honored afterwards as now. At a future time, the people became unit-
ed in the worship of Jehovah; but their formal homage, growing drier
from age to age under the pressure of the priesthood, never rivaled the
devotional sentiment of the prophets, and those whom they inspired.
It is in no view diverging from our subject here, to give in the words
of another a short account of the function of the Hebrew Prophets in
the times prior to the establishment of an exclusive Levitical priesthood;
that is, in times when it was hoped that the guidance, by the Prophets,
of the religious sentiment of the nation would secure its religious ﬁdelity.

“Ancient Polytheism,” says our author,“ “was always tolerant of
collateral polytheistic systems; and he who venerated numerous deities
was naturally ready to believe that other gods existed, unknown to him,
yet equally deserving of worship. The pure monotheistic faiths, on
the contrary, whether of Zoroaster, Moses or Mohammed, have been
all marked by an intolerance which in that stage of the world could not
be separated from the interests of truth; and on this cardinal point the
unity of Israel was to depend. A noble and pure soul looked with
disgust on the foul errors entangled with Canaanitish and Syrian super-
stitions; and in maintaining the exclusive honor of the national god of
Israel,——-the Lord and Creator of Heaven and Earth,—was guilty of no
such mean-spirited sectarianism as might fairly be imputed to one who
contended for a Neptune against an Apollo, an Adonis against a N eith.
The prophet of Jehovah was in fact striving for the pure moral attri-
butes of God,—for holiness against impurity, majesty and goodness
against caprice and cruelty,—for a God whose powers reached to the
utmost limits of space and time, against gods whose being was but of
yesterday, and whose agencies thwarted one another. Nevertheless,
the Hebrew creed was not monotheistic, in the sense of denying the
existence of other gods. It rather degraded them into devils, and set
the omnipotence of Jehovah into proud contrast with their superhuman,
yet limited might, than exploded them as utterly fabulous.”

“The prophets? must on no account be confounded with the
‘ priests.” . “Priests must no doubt have been all but coeval
with the existence of the nation; and at this time they probably lived

’ A History of the Hebrew Monarchy, p. 28.
T lbiJ , p. 31.

