l 60 ass-nan am.

crews, and also the country people, friendly and helpful—even affec-
tionate, in all their intercourses. The crews were always willing and
cheerful about their work, and honest in their transactions with the
strangers. The drawbacks were the incessant begging of the country
people; and the noise and childish quarreling of the crews among
themselves. These were troublesome incidents; but not to be com-
plained of by us strangers as injuries. Among the many who were
pleased, however, there was one who was always making grievous
complaints. Never man was, by his own account, in such incessant
and pressing’danger of robbery, piracy, and murder, as this gentleman
on the Nile. Never did any man so suffer from the perils in which
he hourly saw his wife and children. Every Arab he met wanted to
rob him: every group on the bank, and every party in a boat. was
congregated to board and pillage his dahabieh, and murder his family.
He showed us a loaded six-barreled pistol which he usually carried in
his hand, as he declared to us, wherever he went ; and which he was,
he assured us, obliged very frequent] to discharge. It did not seem
to strike him as strange that all the ot er English, who went unarmed,
and feared nothing, were content with the Arabs—lost nothing, and
met with no slams. He remained fully convinced Of his danger: and
this is the reason whyI mention his case here. It is the least that
European travelers can do in acknowledgment of the security and
facilities which the Pasha’s government affords them on the Nile, to
testif to that security and those facilities; and the testimony is not
less ue to the kindly Arabs, on whom so much of their comfort has
depended: and if one traveler talks of his dangers and wron as this
gentleman does, it is necessary to justice that the majority sﬁzuld de-
clare their contrary experience. The worst of it is that one man who
has desperate adventures to tell of, will make more impression than a
dozen whose testimony is that they had no adventures. But this
makes it all the more necessary that they should say what they found
the state of things. As for myself, I walked much on shore, and was
frequently wandering away by myself among the wins or in the ﬁelds:
and I had no reason to consider myself imprudent—except indeed
about the dogse. I was incessantly forgetting that Egyptian dogs are
dangerous—- ing trained to attack strangers. But as soon as the bark-
ing began, I found the owners quick and eager in restraining the ani-
male: and usually there were some one of the crew within hearin ,
armed with a club. I do not remember that I ever met with any ruge
pressure or threatening but twice, while in Egypt: and then I had put
myself in the power of poor creatures who could not resist the tempta-
tion of grasping at the chance of a large baksheesh. One time was at
Philce, as I have related. The other was this evening in a but at the
EI-Uksur temple, where some women closed the door behind me, and
proved themselves to be very sturdy beggars, till disturbed by one of
my party coming to look for me. Two instances of bold begging,
in ten weeks of constant opportunities, is not much.

As I took a brisk walk along the shore, to warm myself, the next
morning, “ the Lybian suburb” was dressed in the most wonderful

 

