282 names use.

to the suggestion of going to Petra; nor did I suppose that any one
else did.

Till within a few days of our departure, our plan had been, as a mat5
ter of course, to go by El Arish to Hebron and Jerusalem : and again,
Mr. Y. had asked me howI should like to go to Petra, if We found we
could get there from Hebron'; and again I had laughed, not supposing
him in earnest.—But a more distinct vision arose when many friends,
residents of Cairo, and passing travelers,—I think I may say all our
friends,—advised and urged our going to Mount Sinai. This I did
most heartily desire; and certainly not the less when it appeared that
a large party of travelers, including English, Scotch and Irish, were in
hope,—a doubtful and vague hope, but still a hope,—of penetrating
to Petra, on their way from Sinai to Jerusalem. If they could do it, so
might we. But still, my thoughts barely glanced towards it; and when
I was told the good news that we were going to Mount Sinai, I felt this
quite enough, and did not yet look further. ' *

The large party I have mentioned,-—a company of as kind hearts as
one can ﬁnd in a chance wandering over the world,—wished us to join
them. We held off from the junction, feeling that the fatigues of desert
traveling would be quite enough for some of us, without any addition
from the presence of numbers. As for me, I am a particularly unso-
ciable.member of a traveling party; as I suppose every deaf person
must be who wishes to proﬁt by the 'ourney. It is impossible for a
deaf person to listen from the ridge ofI a camel, and note the objects of
travel at the same time. So my way must be to ride in silence during
the traveling hours; and we did not expect to have strength left for any
evening sociability. We therefore engaged our own sheikh and escort,
and twenty camels, wished our friendly compatriots a good journey,
and resolved to go by ourselves.

We were to set out on Tuesday morning, February 23d. On the
Monday we bade farewell to our Cairo friends; and Stanley Poole and
his brother accompanied me to the terrace of the citadel, for one more
enjoyment of that glorious view.—That evening, the mail from Eng-
land arrived. In the morning, we waited for letters; and Mr. E.’s
share detained us till after an early dinner.

For some days our preparations had been very visible in the court-
yard and environs of our hotel. Mr. Y.’s large tent, which was to

ouse Mrs. Y. and me, had been stoutly lined for warmth at night.—
Our sheikh, Bishara, with his bright and genial face, had basked there
in the sun every day, and given his advice on our affairs; and our
camels had been brought to the spot. All this morning, the cross-
grained brutes had been growling and groaning in the yard; and when
their loads were put on, their vicious lamentations were horrible to
bean—Before two, r. r.,’we were mounted; and we paced forth in
procession through the streets of Cairo. The sheikh wore under his
blue burnoose, a brilliant dress of green satinet, striped with red and
gold color. The gentlemen were dressed half and half, Eastern and
European. Ales and the cook were smoking after the toils of the

 

