rnna. 137

confusion seems to me rather to. arise from the absence of symmetry
which, remarkable elsewhere in Egypt, is singularly striking here.
I ventured upon making a plan, by the eye and a rough measurement,
thatI might not hereafter disbelieve the extraordinary perverseness of
the arrangements. As this plan lies before me, I see that the propyla
do not agree with each other; nor with the colonnade in the avenue;
nor with those in the area. No two chambers are of the same size.
The doorways do not answer to each other, any more than the columns.
There is a total want of coherencexof parts. This is not only an im-
pediment to understanding the ediﬁces, but it causes incessant vexation
to the eye, which is baulked of a view through gateways, and offended
by twists and false measurements. This peculiarity once allowed for,
I do not think the group of temples difﬁcult to understand.

The ﬁrst requisite to a ﬁtrsurvey of the Holy Island and its remains,
is a knowledge of why the place is so holy. And in order to under-
stand why the place is so holy, it is necessary to be informed of the
history and ofﬁces of Osiris. I wish I might hope that any of my
readers—any who have not traveled in Egypt—could be at all im-
pressed with the seriousness of this subject. To my mind, no subject
is so solemn as that of the faith of any race of men—their sustaining
and actuating faith—be its objects what they may. And the objects 'of
a sustaining and actuating faith must always be solemn and noble.
Whatever their names may be, they have in them a majesty and en-
dearment which place completely in the wrong allwho ignorantly ab-
hor or despise them. How ignorant and how guilty'we ourselves may
have been in our careless contempt of the idolatries of the world, we
may come to perceive, when we have learned to do as we would be
done by in separating the Ideas of any faith from its outward celebra-
tions—its philosophy from its corruptions ;—and when we become
wise enough to discern the close relations which we have now reason
to believe exist among all the effectual. faiths which have ever operated
widely upon mankind. How serious a research that is which would
discover the attributes and functions of ancient deities, one may partly
feel in contrasting the glibness with which the hallowed name of Osiris
slips off the modern tongue with the reserve of old Herodotus, who, like
other serious-minded men of his time, could not bring himself to name
Osiris at all. I am aware of something of the same contrast in myself.
Before I went to Egypt, I talked of the deities of that old nation as
school children talk of Neptune and Apollo; as once fanciful person-
ages who have become mere poetical images. It is very different now.
As I read old Herodotus on the spot, the awe which made him dumb
where I most wished him to speak, thrilled through me. There the
calm benign gods were no poetical images, but embodied aspirations of
the lolliest powers of man. There, the altars were no mere blocks of
disenchanted stone, but the still inviolable depositories of the reverence,
gratitude, and hepe of whole races of thoughtful human beings, who
here acknowledged One unutterahle Eternal Being, through whose
Attributes they lived, and moved, and had their being. We are apt,
at home, to suppose that language to us sacred from religious associa-

