coxsacns'rron or anon-s. 213

attempts, so to conceive of it, terminating in imaginations of an organi-
zation more subtle and reﬁned than Nature has presented to our view.
On such a subtle and reﬁned organization a considerable number of
men have in all ages ﬁxed their ima ination, their hope and their be-
lief; but they have never succeedeg in showing any evidence for it,
while, in wandering away from the facts of Nature, they have injured
their own best powers, and failed of the highest attainments possible to
their nature. The hi hest of human beings, the holiest, and the safest
in any event. would e one whose bodily frame was of the highest
order originally, the most fully exercised (which includes its being the
most perfectly disciplined), and whose functions of brain were therefore
performed in the most perfect manner—giving him the highest moral
and intellectual elevation possible to humanity. In the reverence for
Life which would rest upon such a being, the unsophisticated Christian
and the devout old Egyptian would meet. Previous to such an en-
counter, the one might err in holding to his Platonic or Essene notions
of a separate soul, CIOgged with a contemptible and obstructive body.
and spurning the notion of its resurrection; and the other might err in
regarding every animal frame as such a manifestation of deity as it
would be profane “to allow to decay; but in actually meeting with the
highest example of existence ever offered to their notice, their common
reverence for Life would be gratiﬁed to such a degree as to enable each
to mend his philosophy, and both to ascertain more carefully than
hitherto the ground of fact on which alone true philosophy can be
‘reared. The Platonizing Christians of our time might have sympathy
with the ancient phi1030pher who pointed contemptuously to a dead
body, with the words, “See the shell of the ﬂown bird l” but the Co-
rinthian readers of Paul's Epistle would shrink from the saying, as the
old Egyptians would; the early Christians from their belief in Paul’s
doctrine of the Resurrection; and the heathens from their belief that
whatever had been gifted with sentient life was forever sacred. And
if it came to argument between the two, whether the line of sacredness
was to be drawn between Man and Brute, it certainly appears to most
people now that in reason the Egyptian would have the advantage.
Remembering that the Egyptians grounded their belief in the immor-
tality of life on the constitution of living beings, on the mystery of their
existence at all in the absence of any evidence of absolute creation, .we
must see that they could not draw a line of separation between any
classes of beings who had sentient life. Any exclusion of brutes from
the reverence entertained towards Life, and from its quality of immor-
tality, is grounded solely on the plea of a divine revelation that Man
shall either not die, or shall live again; and there are not a few devout
receivers of this revelation who have refused to exclude brute animals
from the condition of immortality; not a few Christian philos0phers
who have shrunk from declaring that beings which enjoy the intellec-
tual and moral powers of the dog, for instance, 'shall be annihilated at
death while Man survives. Such men as some of these are not treated
with ridicule or contumely on account of this, speculation, and they
could hardly treat with ridicule or contumely the Egyptians who in

