330 ' nurses use.

research will only conﬁrm his conviction that the forms of their reli-
gious life were substantially the same; the object being changed, and
some needful reforms introduced.

When Moses had failed to satisfy the peOple that Jehovah should
have no meaner temple .than that of the heavens and the earth, and
when it therefore became necessary to prepare for him a visible abiding
place, there could be no doubt about what kind of temple it must be.
The Hebrews were living, like the Egyptians, under a tbeocracy; and
the temples of Egypt, palaces for the Divine King, must be the mo-
del. “The Israelites,” says Dr. Kitto.‘ “were taught to feel that the
tabernacle was not only the temple of Jeaowm, but the palace of their
KING; that the table supplied with wine and show-bread was the royal
table; that the altar was the place where the provisions of the monarch
were prepared; that the priests were the royal servants, and were
bound to attend not only to sacred but also to secular affairs, and were
to receive, as their reward, the ﬁrst tithes, which the people, as sub-
jects, were led to consider as part of the revenue which was due to
God, their immediate sovereign. Other things, of a less prominent
and important nature, had reference to the same great end.”

This is not the place for going into any elaborate comparison of the
Hebrew and Egyptian religious ritual,—interesting as the subject is to
those who have followed the traces of the Israelites from the Nile to
Sinai. Besides that the subject may be found fully treated in the
writings‘of heathens, Jews, and Christians, it belongs less to the locality
of Sinai than to that of Palestine, as there is no saying how little or
how much of the ritual was ordained at ﬁrst, and what grew up after-
wards. As the learned have now made it clear that the Books of the
Law were certainly not all written in their present form, for some cen-
turies afterwards, we cannot tell how deep was the ﬁrst descent into a
ceremonial religion at Sinai, and how much was the work of a strength-
ening priesthood in after years. Some few particulars, however, stand
out clear, as original, and relating to the times of the abode at Sinai.—
Among these is the setting up of the Tabernacle.

There is no reason to suppose that the Tabernacle was the ﬁrst por-
table sanctuary ever made. The eastern idolaters of the old world
used to carry about with them the shrines of their idols in their wan-
derings: and the prophet Amos? and the apostle Stepheni charge the
Israelites with having done even this. Travelers tell us that at this day
the eastern Tartars carry about a tabernacle, which they set up for
purposes of worship. and take to pieces again when they migrate.
This is probably as old as any other nomads custom. Except in its
portableness, the tabernacle of the Hebrews was as like as it could be
made to an Egyptian temple. It had its circuit wall, represented by a
curtained enclosure; it had its open court; and then the ediﬁce itself,
in the form of an oblong square. It had the two chambers which are
the indispensable parts of all Egyptian temples,—the Holy Place; and

‘ History of Palestine, p. 227.
1’ Amos V. 26. I Acts VII. 43.

