o
302 nurses use.

and light. When I looked back, it made me almost breathless to see
our little party,—only four riders besides myself, moving in a space
like that; and yet every ridge and stone looked huge till we came up
to it. Two camel drivers were running beside us. When we had
been riding above two hours, one of them began to scream horribly,
and utter shrill calls ; and from under the next shadowy slepe an Arab
sprang out, close to me as I rode ahead. It was only one of our escort,
who had been left behind by the Sheikh to look for us. He told Also
that we had yet some way to go; and a long way, indeed, it seemed.
We told one another when it was eight o’clock, and when it was nine,
and still we trotted on, seeing nothing through the uncertain and per-
plexing light but the same wilds of rock and sand. At last, as I was

azing forwards intently, I saw a little ﬂash, apparently on the very
horizon; and then a report followed. The Sheikh had ﬁred a gun for
our guidance. We came to some tufts of tamarisk and other low shrubs
in a water-course; and amidst these were the tents. Our over-dressed
dinner was on table immediately,—that is, soon after ten o’clock; but
Mrs. Y. and I craved tea, which presently revived us.—-We now found
that we had been the least distressed of the whole European party.
Our comrades had found, on landing, that the Arab company had gone
on: they had no kind friend at the Wells of Moses to give them lunz
cheon: they had traveled the whole day without food, and were two
hours and a half longer on the road than we.

The next morning we ﬁrst encountered a high wind in the desert.
The sand met us in streams. As riding under such a powdering was
more disagreeable than walking, when one could occasionally turn one's
back to the wind, and take breath, I walked about eight miles; and by
that time, the wind had moderated a little.—As I was afterwards riding
ahead, I saw a palm among some sand hills; and my camel quickened
its pace, and needed no persuasion to carry me up to the tree. More
shrubby palms were now seen growing about a chink in the hill-side,
where a little pool of water appeared. It was rather bitter, but drink-
able. Our camels soon reduced it to sandy drags. They thrust their
heads together eagerly, and pushed hard for a drink; but I observed
that each drank very little. From its bitterness, this well is called by
some peOple the Marsh of Scripture: but it is not enerally supposed
to be the actual place.-—On referring to Burckhar t, I ﬁnd, however,
that he believes this to be the Marsh of Exodus xv. 23. He says :—
“ We passed the well of Howara, round which a few date trees grow.
Niebuhr traveled the same route, but his guides probably did not lead
him to this well, which lies among hills, about two hundred paces out
of the road. ..... The water of the well of Howara is so bitter that
men cannot drink it; and even camels, if not very thirsty, refuse to
taste it.”——It was probably diluted by the rains, which here fall and
ﬂow very copiously.) when we tasted the water. e were nearly two
months earlier in the season than Burckhardt; and we saw every-
where traces of recent ﬂoods in the water-courses. Burckhardt con-
ttnues:-—-

“ From Ayoun Mousa to the well of Howara we had traveled ﬁfteen

