caossmo In: memos. '511

non.—We had been warned that the Cedars were never accessible be-
fore June, from the depth of the snow: but we were disposed to try to
reach them. Instead, therefore, of following the road to Tripoli, we now
saw that road part off to our left; and we went more directly up the
face of the mountains, nearly opposite Baalbec.

 

CHAPTER III.

CROSSING THE LEBANON .—THE CEDARS.—EDEN.—JOURNEY T0
BATROUN.—LAST EN CAMPMENT.

THE passage of the Lebanon was very agreeable,—the path winding
amon woodland—(chieﬂ holly, with some oak)—and over a prolusion
of wi d ﬂowers,—the yellow jessamine abounding as much as any.
We rode up steep ascents, and down to shallow valleys, so that we were
on the whole rapidly mounting. As I was riding behind, a man offered
me some goats’ milk, which was so welcome that I paid him lavishly.
He followed me for more money, which I*would* not give: and when I
overtook my party,I found that Mr. Y. had sent him to me, having paid
handsomely for the milk. Thus the visits of strangers are made pro-
ﬁtable.-—~The next little valley we overlooked was that in which we
were to rest for the night; and our tents were already pitched. Its
aspect was very Alpine, from the scantiness of its crops, the character
of its wood, and the watergfall which came leaping down in successive
stages, from the verge of the snows above.—I went up the hilleide,
among the crevices where the waters took their leap, and there Ibathed,
in the coldest water I ever felt. This refreshment, and the pure air of
the mountain, were like new life, after breathing so long in the depress-
ing atmosphere of' the plains.

The next morning, we reached the summit of the pass in an hour
and forty minutes.- The path was zigzag, and very steep, and so little
encumbered with snow, that there was no difﬁculty whatever. We
crossed two or three patches of not more than a foot in depth: and that
was all. We could see Baalbec the whole way, by looking back over
the Bekaa: and I should think, by the evening light, the colo'nnades
must be visible, standing above the screen of wood. To our left spread
the little Lake Limouu, looking so calm and still, that for some time I
supposed it to be mere mira e. The moment of turning away from
the ridge, and losing sight 0% Antilibanus, was rather sad : for we felt
that this was our true farewell to the East. We were parting from
the Plain of Hollow Syria, and from the pass leadin to Damascus; and
from the peaks which closed in the Valley of the ordan; and hence-
forth we must look only westwards.

This first western view was extremely ﬁne: and we were not disap-
pointed by blinding mists, as so many travelers have been who, comin
hither with their minds full of Volney’s description, have found al
blank. There was haze over the sea: but we could distinguish the

