382 smart urn.

what he wished. Mrs. Y. and I watched from the cemetery the pro-
cess,—most tumultuous today,—of loading and setting off the camels
on their return. They were delayed by the discovery of the theft of a
pistol from one of the tents. The Governor was sent for; and he or-
dained that the Shaikh should deduct the value of the pistol from his
ﬁnal pay; and this was done; and Sheikh Hussein and his train rode
away. I have mentioned what adventure befell him on his return.

“'e had twenty miles to ride to-day,-to Bethlehem. When the
horses were all a propriated, there remained some donkeys for the rest
of us: andlha the smallest that! ever mounted. After so many
weeks on a camel, this was like ridinga rat. But there was no fhtigue
in it, when we had once passed the very bad paved road near Hebron ;
and the country was beautiful. The scenery was of the same charac-
ter as yesterday ;-stony hills, tufted with shrubs; ﬁelds of a deep yel-
low or red soil, ploughed today with bollocks; many pools and pic-
turesque old wells, sunk and weed-grown: but the trees were larger,
the shrubs ﬁner, and the wild ﬂowers gayer and more profuse. None
were more abundant than the cyclamen.

We forgot the tree of Abraham till we had passed the way to it too
far to return; and we were not much concerned at it,——hardly sup-
posing that the tree under which the Patriarch received the three visit-
ants can be visible new. Two gentlemen of the company had gone;
and we proposed to be content with their report. We lunched under
a spreading tree, in the shadow of a‘ rock; and as we threw our egg.
shells about, little imagined what comfort we were providing for our
twa comrades in the rear. One of them was on foot; so that both were
at the mercy of the country people. Their guide played them false;
they were threatened and assailed, and had to ﬁght and ﬁnd their way
a well as they could. While in some uncertainty, they arrived at this
resting-place, saw our egg-shells, and knew that they were in the right
road. The walker was dreadfully exhausted when they joined us at
Bethlehem in the eVening. ‘

We met acompany of pilgrims this morning,-—very like the group
in Eastlake’s- picture, only that they were leaving the Holy City, in-
stead of hastening to it. There were more women than men; and they
were very good-looking; less travel-worn than could have'been ex-b
pected, after a pilgrimage ﬁrst to Meltkeh, and then to Jerusalem.

hey were new on their way home; some few on horses and asses, but
the greater number on foot: perhaps ﬁve-and-twenty in all.—-A little
further on we came to a large khan, with a vast reservoir; the resting-
place of the pilgrims who come this way, and the watering-place of
their-beasts.

At the end of twenty miles from Hebron, we came upon a very: ﬁne
view. On the ridge of a bill before us rose the convent of St. lias,
which we knew to be almost within sight of Jerusalem. A valley lay
on our left hand, from which sloped hills whose recesses were wooded
with olive groves. Hi up one of these hills, and in the midst of the
olive groves, was a vi . ne of the handsome stone-built vill es
of Palestine, on which the setting sun was now casting its last gol en

