noses AT uomv'r strut. 325

received this on their authority, the Initiated ‘were a eed that God was
so free from affections and passions of every kind t at be neither con-
ferred good nor inﬂicted evil on individuals, at any time.—Warburton
tells us, in the following passage, of a late result of this discrepancy,
which shows us how the case must have appeared to one so learned
and sagacious as Moses.

“Lactantius, trom a forensic lawyer, now become an advocate for
Christianity. found nothing so much hindered its reception with the
learned as the doctrine of a Future Judgment; which their universal
principle, that God could not be angry, directly opposed. To strike at
the root of this evil, he composed a discourse which Jerome calls pul-
chern'mum opus. entitled on ma om; for he had observed, he tells us,
that this principle was now much spread among the common people,
he lays the blame of it upon the philosorrhers; and tells us, as Tully
had done before. that all the philosophers agree to exclude the passion
of anger from the Godhead.”* The ground taken by Lactantius was
that if God could not be angry, all reli ion was done away with, as a
future state of retribution was thus exc uded; he therefore contended
that the God of the Christians was actuated, as man is, by love and
hatred—only that they are always reasonable in Him—and he then
proceeded to argue for God having a human form, as a necessary con-'
sequence of his sharing human passions. Into this we need not go.
The important part of this citation is the testimony that the doctrine of
a future Judgment was the obstacle to the reception of Christianity by
the learned—and why?

Moses saw thus that the doctrine of future reward and punishment
was disbelieved by the learned, and was so far made a deception to the
people as that the inevitable suffering which arises from sin, and the
peace which attends goodness, were concealed from them under the
disguise of arbitrary punishment and reward. The Initiated appear to
have believed in a future life, and in the natural retribution by which,
from their very constitution, the virtuous enjoy and the vicious suffer;
but, in as far as they declared these things in the form of divine pro-
mises and threats, contingent on future conduct, they deceived the
people; and Moses as carefully avoided perpetrating this evil as any
other connected with the Mysteries. » 1

The second ordinary way of meeting the difﬁculty of the existence
of evil was no less familiar to him, from his position through life; the
supposition of two opposing deities. He had seen in Egypt how from
being brothers,children of one father, Osiris and 'l'ypho,Good and Evil,
had become foes; and he had witnessed the moral mischief which arises
from the belief of a malevolent spiritual being. We ﬁnd therefore in
the Mosaic system no more trace of an evil spiritual being, hostile to
God and man, than of a future life of reward and punishment. The
serpent in Eden is, in the history, a mere serpent,altogether Egyptian
in its conception, and bearing no relation whatever to the Evil Being
with which superstition afterwards connected it. Moses nowhere hints

/.

' Divine Leption, h, I. 497.

