14B . Imam urn.

and was presently surprised by darkness. A man, woman and boy
had blocked up the entrance by sitting down outside on the mud heap
which nearly occupied the space. They demanded baksheesh in a
very diﬂ'erent tone from that which they would have employed if our
dragoman or the gentlemen had been in view. The woman slipped
in, and laid hold of me, trying to wrench my gold pencil-case out of my
hand, while the man and boy spread themselves so as still to cover the
entrance. Iknew, however, at what peril anybody in Egypt robs a _
stranger, and that I was perfectly safe. I gave these people nothing,
and got away safe by insisting on a passage over the mud heap. As I
emerged, the trio ran away, and I saw no more of them.

I found my party preparing to lunch on the terrace of the temple
called Pharaoh’s Bed. This temple was built with a view to its aspect
from the river; and truly, the Ptolemies and Caesars have given a ﬁne
object to voyagers who gaze up at Philte. Wexwho live in an English
climate can hardly reconcile our unaccustomed taste to a hypethral
building anywhere; the only building of that kind that we have at
home being the village Pound; and walls without roof not answering
to our idea of an ediﬁce at all. But I felt here, and at night, how
strong is the.temptation to abstain from rooﬁng public buildings, when,
above the canopy of the clear air, there are the circling stars to light
them. When I saw this temple roofed with Orion and Aldebaran, I
could ask for nothing better.

I went three times round the whole outside of the temples, so as to
obtain some permanent impression of the immense array of gods, of-
ferers, cartouches and legends.--I saw here, for the first time, a front
face among the sculptures ;—a proof of their not being ancient. It was
the middle face in more than one group of captives, whom the con-
queror was holding by the hair, preparatory to cutting off their heads.

On a plain space of wall is inscribed the Latitude and Longitude of
Philcs, as ascertained by the French Commissioners whose names are
a pended. The same service is much wanted higher up the river.—

here are inscriptions in different parts of the temple recording the
visits of the expedition sent here by Gregory XVI., and of the French
republican army under Dessaix in 1799.

At last, it was time to go;—absolutely necessary to go: for the boat
was waiting which was to take us to Mahatta. We returned again
and again to verif points on which we were not, on ﬁrst comparing
notes, fully agree : but this lingering must come to an end. We
could yet see Philoa for some time: and how diﬁ'erent it looked now
when we understood every angle and every recess! At last we rounded
the point which intervenes between Philm and Mahatta; and we saw
the Holy Island no more. “ By Him who sleeps in Philm,” I vowed
never to part with its image from my interior picture-gallery.

At Mahatta we found asses awaiting us, in the care of two of our
crew who had remained withthe Dahabieh. Of these, the Buck was
one; and his glee at seei‘n us again was uncontrollable. He shook
hands with us all at great fength; and kept up a most vigorous panto-
mime all the way to Aswin. He had dressed himself as splendidly as

