unless-r nasoo. 191:

walls, a naval conﬂict, for the ﬁrst time, —supposed to have taken place
on some Asiatic inland sea, as the enemy appears to be of Asiatic race.
The Egyptian galleys are distinguished from those of a foe by a lion’s
head at the prow. One pretty scene in this foreign country is where
the king is attacked by lions, which he kills and puts to ﬂighn—in a
marsh—We have also besieged towns, where the children are lifted 1n
over the ramparts. for safety, and the besiegers fell trees in the neigh-
boring woods. Then we have triumphs, captives, approving gods, 65c .,
as in other places, but with much grandeur. -—The predominant impres-
sion on one’s mind here, as in so many other monumental areas in
Egypt, is of the interest to us now of that early stage of the human
mind which united with its barbaric aims and pursuits such serene
and abstract conceptions of deity, and such a subordination of the
present life to the future. Here we have the king and all human
bengs in intense action, in thesPhysical Force stage of civilization,
while the gods remain the same imperturbable abstractions that;we
ever ﬁnd them; and the preparation of the tombs is an object of even»
- more interest to men than the prosecution of their wars. It is curious,
and very instructive to see how an age appropriated to the supremacy
of Force was no less distinguished by Faith in abstractions.

When Thebes had so far declined as to become a mere collection
of villages in the plain, the Christians took possession. of Medeenet
Haboo, plastering over the sculptures with mud, putting up an altar
at the east end of the temple, introducing their little red columns and
low roofs among the massy and gorgeous pillars of the heathen courts;
and even defacing the architraves to admit their rafters. Their priesu
took possession of the small apartments of the temple; and their-peOple
built mud'houses within the precincts. On the approach of the Arabs,
the Christians fled to lens; and here lie their remains, scattered among
the outstanding glories of an older time.—I have said how the Christian
motions and paintings appeared to us. It may be interesting to know
how they appeared to our predecessor in this journey,--the .Bagdad
physician who saw these places when the crusaders were warn with
his faith in Syria. If we remember that he speaks of the Copticnghris-
tians of between six and seven centuries ago, we shall not be apt to
take offence, as at an attack on the Christianity of our country and
our time. We do not pique ourselves on a fellowship with the Coptic
Christians of the 12th century in their country settlements.

Abdallatifsays, after extolling the grandeur and beauty of the Egyptian
sculptures, “ The children of Israel, having been witness of the homage
which the Egyptians rendered to these idols, of the profound veneration
which they entertained for them, and of the zeal with which they won-
shiped them, became accustomed, during their long abode among this
.m, to see these superstitious ceremonies; and having found in Syria;
ﬂea delivered over in the same manner to the worship of idols,
required of Moses that he should give them such gods as these people
had: which drew forth from Moses this reproach, You are a foolish
nation. The greater number of Christians, being either Egyptians or
Sabeans, have retained the propensities belonging to their origin, and

