loses Barons m sxonns. 289

apprehension of this truth, and his intrepidity in bringing it into prac-
tice which made Moses the greatest of men, and the eternal benefactor
of the world. He was before skilled in)“ all the wisdom of the Egyp-
tians :" it was this which raised him above the collective wisdom of
all their long line of priests, and made him worth more to the human
race than all the sages together who have been born of it. His know-
ledge, even of spiritual things, vast, as it was, was limited. by the
boundaries of his time; but this one clear spiritual perception of human
rights made him a benefactor for all time. —He did not rise to a higher
view of God than his being a national god, and the greatest of gods:
be regarded Jehovah as the god of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, and not
as the god of the Egyptians and mankind at large: but, limited as was
his view of God, his recognition of the spiritual rights of Man was the
fullest and noblest that has ever been obtained, or can, perhaps, ever
be obtained. Warned by what he had seen in Egypt, his purpose was
to admit to the divine knowledge which he held every individual of the
peeple he belonged to. By his pesition 1n the priestly class 1n Egypt,

and his learning, he knew how the priests of Memphis and Heliopolis
believed 1n One Supreme de1ty—“ the Unutterable,” of whom they
uttered not a word to any beyond their own class; and he had seen
how they presented to the people for worship merely the deiﬁed attri-
butes of their god, and consecrated objects vthse sanctity they knew
to be merely derived: and in the degradation of the popular mind, he
witnessed the effects of this mistaken and presumptuous reservation.
As the images crossed him in his solitude of the religious feasts of the
Egyptians, the gross brute worship into which they ad sunk, and the
foul superstitions in which they groveled, he conceived the brave pur-
pose—the boldest enterprise, I believe, on record—of admitting every
one of Jehovah’s people to the fullest possible knowledge of him, and
to direct allegiance to him. Holding himself the knowledge of the
Supreme Jehovah, he aspired, on behalf of his people, that they should
have no other gods before Him. I In Egypt, he had seen the only theory
of government of which perhaps he had conceived,—that of a theo-
cracy,-—corrupted in its workings by such a concealment of the Pro-
vidential ruler as caused the people to rest their homage and obedience
on the vicegerent, and become wholly insensible to that divine origin
of their moral and material government which was acknowledged by
the priests. The class who monopolized wisdom and knowledge
recognized 1n the priestly brother whom they made king the favored
son and chosen agent of a divine ruler; but the people regarded their
king as the ultimate ruling power. The bold urpose of Moses was
to remove the medium, and to bring his brethren face to face with
Jehovah as people and King.

When these purposes had grown out of his aspirations, the details
of the enterprise grew from perception into purpose too. The He-
brews could never become enlightened amidst the darkness of popular
life 1n Egypt. There could not be sp1r1tual ltght 1n their houses, while
“darkness that might be felt” brooded all about them. They could
never be puriﬁed while the corruptions of idolatry swarmed within

19

