208 msmut Lmr.

dren, went to child's play. By Mrs. Y.’s account, it was a capital
scene. The Buck took ofﬁce as Governor; was high and mighty, and
had the tax-payers brought before him. There was no end to the bas-
tinado and imprisonment he inﬂicted on unfortunate debtors, who told
such tales of outrageous misfortune as were never heard before.
Where our children play school, and naughtiness, and punishment,
these men play tax-gathering, mishap, and bastinado.

When we were ready to start, on the morning of the 8th, there was
much disputing between Alee and the donkey men: and the sheikh
was called to give his opinion. The difﬁculty was that the men wanted
the whole pay (seven piastres per donkey) in advance,which of course
Alee was unwilling to give to strangers. He offered half in advance:
and I believe it was settled so, at last. The men’s plea was that a party
of Europeans the day before had agreed to pay seven piastres per don-
key; but had at last paid only four, alleging discontent with the ani-
mals. I hope this was not true.

We crossed the rich plain, which was very lively from its being
market-day. The assemblage of people was considerable; most of
them bringing something to market. The women carried loads like
those of their husbands ;-—baskets of charcoal, from the acacia-groves;
tow, wool, kids carried on the shoulder, &c. The women’s faces were
carelessly covered, or not at all; and we were suddenly struck by the
lighter shade of complexion here.

We came abruptly upon the Desert, near the two stone Pyramids of
Dasboor. The ﬁrst, which changes its angle half way up, is the ugliest
building I ever saw, being at once clumsy and decre it in appearance.
I saw a wild cat run up the south-west angle, and ide itself among
the stones; and Mr. E. had just before seen a large fox. On every
side but the north, the stones were rough and broken. One circum-
stance became thus apparent, which struck me as worth remembering,
—the method of joining the blocks by locking them with a stone-key.
A sluare hole on one side of each block being ﬁtted to the correspond-
in ole of the other, makes an oblong square hole, of course: and an
ob ong uare of stone ﬁtting into it looks them together in one direc- .
tion, as ovetailing would in two.—On the north side, though the sur-
face was crusted, there was a smoothness and accurate joining of the
stone, which showed what the face must once have been. The en-
trance is at the north; and we saw the square hole; but there is no-
thing within, it is understood, to tempt the passing traveler to enter,
while so near other pyramids which are worth all the time and effort
be has to spare.—The best effect of these pyramids is when one looks
up to the glorious sky above them, and sees how sharp and bright they
stand out,—tbe yellow ediﬁce glittering against the blue heaven.

The brick Pyramids of Dasboor are now crumbled down into mere
ruin. Yet it is believed by some that the northernmost of these is the
one which once bore the proud inscription recorded by Herodotus.
The old Pharaoh, of the First Period, Asychis, who built that pyramid
gwhichever it may be) was prouder of his brick than of any stone edi-

ce,--whether from its novelty, or from its having had a vaulted roof

