m cannon 75

Our desert ride in the moonlight was very ﬁne, among such lights
and shadows as I never saw by night before. We encountered no
hymnas, though our guide carried a musket, in excpectation that we
should. We crossed the rapids in safety, and reache our boat execs-
sively tired, and the more eager for rest because the next was to be the
greatest day of our journey,—unless perhaps that of our passing Thebes.

 

CHAPTER VII.
ASCENT OF THE CATARACT.

Sven an event as the ascent of the Cataract can happen but once in
one’s life; and we would not hear of going ashore on any such plea
as that the feat could be better seen from thence. What I wanted was
to feel it. I would have gone far to see a stranger’s boat pulled up;
butI would not refuse the fortune of being on board when I could.
We began, however, with going ashore at the Rapid where we failed
the evening before. The rope had been proved untrustworthy; and
there was no other till we joined the Rais of the Cataract, with his
cable and his posse. Our Rais put together three weak ropes, which
were by no means equivalent to one strong one: but the attempt suc-
ceeded. ’

It was a curious scene,—the appearing of the dusky natives on all
the rocks around; the eager zeal of those who made themselves our
guards, holding us by the arms, as if we were going to jail, and scarcel
permitting us to set our feet to the ground, lest we should fall; and
the daring plunges and divings of man or boy, to obtain our admiration
or our baksheesh. A boy would come riding down a slope of roaring
water as conﬁdently as I would ride down a sand-hill on my ass.
Their arms, in their ﬁghting method of swimming, go round like the
spokes of a wheel. Grinning boys poppled in the currents; and little
seven-year-old savages must haul at the ropes, or ply their little poles
when the kandjia approached a spike of rock, or dive to thrust their
shoulders between its keel and any sunken obstacle: and after every
such feat, they would pop up their dripping heads, and cry “bak-
sheesh.” I felt the great peculiarity of this day to be my seeing, for
the ﬁrst, and probably the only time of my life, the perception of sa-
vage faculty: and truly it is an imposing sight. The quickness of
movement and apprehension, the strength and suppleness of frame, and
the power of experience in all concerned this day, contrasted strangely
with images of the bookworm and the professional man at home, who
can scarcely use their own limbs and senses, or conceive of any con-
trol over external realities. I always thought in America, and I always
shall think, that the ﬁnest specimens of human development I have '
seen are in the United States, where every man, however learned and
meditative, can ride, drive, keep his own horse, and roof his own
dwelling: and every woman, however intellectual, can do, if necessary,

