mu. 8'

none more so than that of the ﬁrst day of thisyear. We sauntersd
along the camel-track which ran between the shore and the ﬁne over-
han ing rocks of the Arabian Desert. The brilliant moonlight cast deep
sha ows on the sand, and showed us what mighty blocks had fallen,
and how others were about to fall. These African nights, soft, lustrous
and silent, are worth crossing the World to feel. We met a party of
three men, a boy and a donkey—one of the men carrying a spear.
They returned our greeting courteously, but stopped to look after us
in surprise. Their-tread and ours was noiseless on the sand, and the
only sound within that wide horizon was of a haying dog, far away on
the opposite shore.

The next morning we passed Korosko, and saw the surveying ﬂag
of M. Arnault, and the tents of his party of soldiers; but we could not
learn how his survey and his search for water proceeded, in prepara-
tion for his road to the Red~Sea. We were passing temples, from stage
to stage, all the way up—and very clearly we saw them—each stand-
ing on its platform of sand or rock; but we left them, all for examination
on our return. This return must now be soon; we sighed to think
how soon, when we met on the morning of January 3d, the two boats
of a party who told us that, if we wished to send letters to England,
we must prepare them, as some gentlemen were at'Aboo-Simbil, and
would presently be passing us. The great temple of Aboo-Simbil, the
chief object of our Nubian voyage, and almost at the extremity of it, so
near us! It damped our spirits; but we wrote our letters, and before
we had done the expected boat came up. We little thought that morn-
ing, any of us, that our three parties would join in the desert, and that
we should live together in Arabia for ﬁve weeks. Yet soit turned
out.

I had been watchin the winds and the hours in the fear that we
should passAboo-Simbtl in the dark. But when I came on deck, on
the morning of the 4th, I found, to my great joy, that we were only a
few miles from it. while a fresh breeze was carrying us well on our
course. We passed it before breakfast.

The facade is visible from a considerable distance; and as soon as it
becomes visible, it ﬁxes the eye by the singularity of such an object as
this smoothed recess of the rugged rock. 1 found it unlike what I ex-
pected, and unlike,l thought, all the representations of it that I had
seen. The portal looked low in proportion to the colossi; the facade
was smaller, or at least narrower, than I had supposed; and the colossi
much nearer together. The white-wash which Champollion (it is
said) left on the face of the northernmost colossus, has the curious
eﬂ'ect of bringing out the expression of countenance, so as to be seen
far oﬂ'. Nothing can be more strange than so extremely distinct a re-
velation of a face, in every feature, perhaps a mile 06'. It is stranger
than the ﬁrst apparition of the goodly proﬁle of the bronze Bor- ,
romeo, near Lago Maggiore; because not only the outline of the fea-
tures stands out clear, but every prominence and shadow of the face. ‘
The expression of this colossus is very agreeable; it is so tranquil and
cheerful. We had not yet experienced the still stranger sensation of

r

