TOIB or earner. 181

about O'sirei; probably a c0py of the eulogy and. prayers read at his
funeral; as such a record was often inscribed near the entrance of a
tomb.-—Next comes anOther staircase,,on the walls of which are paint-
ed ﬁgures of genii which cannot be the Assessors, because they are not
forty-two; but thirty-seven on the one wall, and thirty-nine on the
other. They are very grotesque;.and one longs to know what they
mean. It is strange, and exceedingly agreeable, to feel that this long-
ing has more hope in it as the centuries pass. It appeared, a while
ago, to all eyes as it. appears now to many, that Time buries the sources
of our knowledge as he goes, choking them up with his inexhaustible
sands, and making a dreary desert of the past. But what do we see
next? Here comes Speculation, on her tentative march, her divinin
rod in hand, indicating to her follower, laborious Science, where and
how to work; and lo! out oozes the stream again,—scanty and thick
enough at ﬁrst, but sure to run fuller and clearer every day. See how
improved our prospects of Egyptian knowledge are since the days
when our Cmur de Lion was besieging Acre! At that time, about 1190,
the learned physician of Bagdad, Abdallatif, was lecturing at Cairo. In
the excellent account of the Egypt of his day which he has left us, he
says, speaking of the Pyramids and other monuments which were be-
fore his eyes, “these blocks are completely covered with writing in
that ancient character, the import of which is wholly unknown at this
day. I have not met with any person, in all Egypt, who could say
that he knew, even by hearsay, of any one who understood this cha-
racter.” “Near these Pyramids, the remains of gigantic old ediﬁces,
and a great number of solidly constructed tombs are to be seen; and it
is rare to meet with any portion of these ruins which is not covered
with inscriptions in that ancient character which is wholly unknown at
this day." How delightful it must be to any Champollion, Rosellini,
Wilkinson or Lepsius of our century to read this passage! And how
encouraging it is to some of us who, by their labors, have looked with
some degree of intelligence upon the monumental records of Egypt, to
think that a future generation will probably see much more than we
do ;-—perhaps understanding the genii, and the other mysteries of this
tomb, nearly as well as if they had Pythagoras, or some more plain-
spoken old priest, for a guide.
No part of the illustrations of this tomb is more mysterious than
those of the second passage. Kneph, “the Spirit of the Supreme,
' which moves upon the face of the waters,”1' has naturally a boat for
one of his emblems: the serpent is another. Phthah, his colleague in
the work of creation, is the patron of the occupant of this tomb; and
their symbols abound. In this second passage we ﬁnd the boats of
Kneph: and a curious series of descending planes, each with a door
upon it, which is supposed to ﬁgure the descent to Hades ;—-the Amenti,
or western region of the dead. We meet the serpent here in the shape
of the bier, which elsewhere is almost invariably lion-shaped. Here,

' Relation do l’Egypte, par Abdallatif, Livre I., Ch. IV.
1' Wilkinson’s Ancient Egyptians, IV. 236.

