402 smart ms.

Egyptian ceremonies should enter the city, or even the suburbs of
Rome.“ And again, it is remarkable that the Egyptian and Jewish
faiths were classed together by the authorities at Rome. Tacitus tells
us that “ the Roman Senate made a new law (A. D. 10) against the
Egyptian and Jewish superstitions, and banished 'to Sardinia four thou-
sand men who were found guilty of being Jews.”’r

Nothing is more striking to the students of these critical times of
the world’s history than the evidence of the wide intercourse of minds
which existed in ages when we are apt to suppose that, for want of the
art of printing, nations were shut up within themselves, and remained
as exclusive in their characteristics of mind as of race. We should
remember that war acted upon them almost as powerfully as commerce
does upon us, and quite differently from the warfare of modern times.
It not only opened countries to each other, but brought the respective
citizens face to face. A colonial or other connection usually w up
out of war; and the wisest men of either country traveled in t e terri-
tory of the other; and there was frequently an exchange of citizens.
The countries of the old world had commerce too. It did not occa-
sion the extensive intercourse of modern times, nor intermingle differ--
ent pe0ple to such a degree as war: but it wrought in its own way.
We must also consider that if the ancients had not our extensive cir-
culation of books, they had, an that account, far more earnestness in
their inquiry after new ideas, and their reception of them. When
sages and priests met face to face, from distant countries, they impressed
one another far more deeply than we are often impressed by books;
and their pursuit of philosophy'was much more serious than ours. It
appears that the Jews had their full share of the advantages of foreign
intercom-see; and that they were so far from being the homogeneous
and separate people that they are ordinarily supposed to be, that abun-
dant foreign elements entered into their constitution, both of mind and
race, from the time of their entrance upon the Promised Land to that
of their ﬁnal dispersion.

It cannot be overlooked, in this review, how large was the Egyptian
element, in comparison with every other. On every .side, except the
cast, it was continually, however silently, ﬂowing in. The Hebrew
mind was fed by the Egyptian incessantly, throughout its whole exist-
ence. Besides what the Jews obtained from Moses, and by all their
direct fraternization with the Egyptians, at intervals, for many ages, the
Egyptian mind communicated with theirs through the Greeks, the
Syrians, and the Romans; so that to understand their faith, their ordi-
nances, their philosOphy, their sects, their, monachism, their history,
and their literature, it is necessary to go back to Egypt for the key.
To a certain extent, the case is the same with some other nations,—
with the Greeks and the Etruscans especially; but the strongest aﬁinity
we know of among ancient peoples was that between the Egyptians
and the Hebrews; and it is highly necessary not to lose sight of this
kindred relation in exploring the mind of the Jewish people at any
assigned period.

' Sharpe‘s History of Egypt, p. 356. , 1' Ibid., p. 363.

