858 usual urn.

lay in fragments beside the circle of stones.-—North and east rose the
red rocks which form the material and barrier of the city on that side;
and above them swelled the round, whitish mountains which shut in
the whole. Then the view was bounded by rocks, with holes, ﬂights
of steps, and occasional trees, as far as the south, where towered Mount
Hor, crowned with the tomb of Aaron. Dark peaks arose between us
and it; and from the ravine below was heard the sound of running
waters. Then, as we turned, we seemed to look upon chaos, so tre-
mendous was the confusion of black and brown mountains near, and
yellow beyond,——bare and precipitous to a degree oppressive to the
sense: while half way between them and us, was the most singular
relief that could be found even in this singular place ;—a perfect her-
mitagel An extremely narrow path of rock, with a sheer precipice
on either hand, connected an otherwise isolated summit with the height
on which we stood: and in a face of that summit was a single excava-
tion, which had that narrow bridge and a ﬂight of steps all to itself. I
never saw an abode, for the living or the dead, so utterly solitary as
this.—Beyond all these objects, and spreading away to the south and
west, to the utmost limit of vision, was the Desert,—now streaky, now
shadowy,-—all immense and still,-—with no marked objects but a faint
hill or two on the furthest horizon, and a chain of hills to the west.
Of the piling of the rocks, and the retiring of the ravines near, and of
the chaos of mountains behind, there is, says my journal, no giving an
idea: nor can there be a hope of preserving such imagery in its im-
pressiveness. No faculty is equal to it.

Mr. E. found in a cave, this day, a dried corpse. The Arabs said
there was nothing to be seen there; and they might not know of it:
but there it lay, wrapped in well-woven cotton. There was some ﬂesh
left on the bones,—as dry as they. From the modern sewing in the
joining of the wrapper, we concluded this body to be that of a not very
ancient Arab. In only one other instance did we meet with human
hence :—-we found a heap of them under some regularly laid stones in
a cave of the northern ravine. If these many thousands of excavations
were all tombs, where are all the millions of skeletons gone,—leaving
actually no trace of one single body l—Possibly the bodies may be yet
to be found, in closed receptacles, in some neighboring valley of
Tombs.

This morning, the Shaikh came to get a pipe, under pretence of try-
ing to persuade us to go on to-morrow morning. This evening, he
required us to take on the same number of camels that we brought from
Akaba, though our stores were much reduced. In order not to refuse
everything he asked, we agreed to this. His reason for the request
became plain, as men and camels grew weaker from want of food, so
that it required the same number to do the diminished work.—When I
say that we agreed to this and that, I mean that Mr. E. did. By this
time, Mr. E. found himself charged with the whole business of manag-
ing the Sheikh, and arranging the journey affairs, as far as the Euro-
pean party had anything to do with the matter at all. It was Mr. E.’s
knowledge of affairs and very ﬁne temper which brought this respon-

