424 3mm ms.

From the formation of the ground, as well as from some of the an-
cient language about Jordan, it appears as if the river had once been
subject to inundations, which might have caused the exuberant fertility
of the plain in former days: but it is not so now. The force with which
it rushes down the descent from the Lake of Tiberius to the Dead Sea
has, in course of centuries, so deepened its channel as that it rarely
rises above its banks. It gushes along in its deep bed among the wood-
land, and now and then stands in among the stems of the trees; but it
is not upon record that it has reached the second terrace in its fullest
seasons; and its depth varies much in different years, as well as in
different seasons of every car. Till we came to the brakes on its very
banks, all was as dry as i no wave had ever touched it.

Our uides‘ led us towards the spot which is cleared for the baptism
of the aster Pilgrims: and the ﬁrst intimation which I had of our arri-
val was from some of the party dismounting at the Pilgrims’ Beach.
When I came up, 0! how beautiful it was !—-how much more beauti-
ful than all pictures and all descriptions had led me to expect! The
only drawback was, that the stream was turbid ;—not only whitish, from
a sulphurous admixture, but muddy. But it swept nobly alon , with I
strong and rapid current, and many eddies, gushing between t e oppo-
site limestone face and the woodland on our bank, now smiting the white
rock, and now ﬂowing in among the tall reeds, and now winding away
out of sight behind the p0plars and spreading acacias and sycamores
of the promontories to the south. It is a narrow river; but it is truly
majestic from its force and loveliness. The vigorous, unspringing cha-
racter of the wood along its margin struck me much; and we saw 11
now in its vivid sprin green. .

'l‘he Pilgrims’ Beac is a shelving bit of shore, kept bare for their
approach ; and here, with something like Arab “intensity,” they rush
in in such numbers, and with so little precaution, that some are drowned
every year. This year, it was spoken of as a' remarkable circum-
stance that on] one was drowned. It must be a fearful sight,—-th6
old people carried away by the crowd and the current from their slimy
footing near the shore, and the women and children from their hold
upon the overhanging branches: and when once they are swept among
the eddies, there is no chance for any but strong swimmers. What-
ever superstition there might be in us, there was none of the wild kind
which drives the Greek and Latin pilgrims thus headlong into the
stream. We wished to bathe, but we did it in safety. The ladies
went north; the gentlemen south. I made a way through the thicket
with difﬁculty till I found a little cove which the current scarcely (ll-5"
turbed, and over which hung a sycamore whose lower branches dipped
into the water. One might bathe here without touching the mud which
lay soft and deep beneath. The limestone precipice opposite, gal"
landed with weeds, and the wooded promontor which shot out below.
made the river particularly beautiful here; an sorry I was to leave 1‘
when the time came for us to mount and proceed.

It is useless to attempt to make out where the baptism of Jesus tool!
place, or where were the stations at which his disciples and John ad‘

