unusual. 403

Herod began rebuilding the temple 3. c. 17; and it was ﬁt for the
resumption of the service in s. c. 7. It was this new structure that
Jesus and his disciples were contemplating when they spoke of its
having been “ forty and six years in buildi .” Here it was that he
found the Pharisees haughtily insisting on lflge minutiae of their ritual,
and elaborating their Pythagorean doctrines of the soul and its pros-
pects. Here it was that he found the Scribes expounding the law to
those who could never hope to understand its intricacies without
help. Here it was that he found the Sadducees contendingfor the
simplicity of the primitive Law, and for that Majesty of Jehovah which
forbade his interference with the affairs of men. Here it was that he
saw carried to the altar, the sacriﬁces sent by Essenes who would not
personally mingle in the pomps and vanities of a ritual worship. Here
it was that he found, brought in by the four winds, and intermingling
like the fumes of the incense and the smoke of the sacriﬁce, all that the
minds of distant nations had to offer before the sanctuary of the true
God; the wisdom of the Egyptians, the science of the Assyrians, the
philosophy of the Greeks, and the now strict monotheism of the He-
brews. Here it was that he, by his god-like nature, gathered into him-
self and assimilated all that was true, deep, noble, and endearing in this
world-wide range of thought, and gave it forth again, in such a music
of Glad Tidings, ringing clear under that temple roof, as that every
heart felt,—“ never man spake like this man i”

 

CHAPTER III.

JERUSALEM.—THE ENGLISH MISSION .—MOSQUE 0F OMAR.—JEWS’
PLACE OF WAILING.-'—VALLEY 05‘ J EHOSHAPHAT.—GREEK FIRE.
—DAVID’S TOMB AND CIENACULUM.—ARMENIAN CONVENT.—-LE-
FEES—CAVE 01" J JEREMIAH—EN VIRONS. ‘

We considered ourselves most fortunate in our lodgment at Jerusa-
lem ;-—I mean in the position of our rooms at Salvador’s hotel. The
house would not contain the whole of our party, and three went to
lodgings. But we ladies bad light airy rooms opening upon the high-
est platform of the hotel; this platform being the roof of a lower set of
chambers. I was never tired of gazing abroad from the parapet of our
little terrace, from which I could command a large extent of the ﬂat
roofs of the city, and of its picturesque walls. The narrow, winding
street far below, which we overlooked almost from end to end, was the
Via Dolorosa; and it was spanned midway by the Ecce Homo arch.
This Mournful Way, where I rarely saw any one walking, attracted
the eye all the more from its being almost the only street we had a
glimpse of ; the streets of Eastern cities being so narrow as not to be
visible from a height. Some few were traceable by a comparison of
the lines of house tops, and the guidance of the minarets which sprang
from among the roofs, tall and light as the poplar from the long grass
of the meadow: but the only street which we could look down into

