1 l0 amen urn.

Whose will be the honor of laying them open l—not in the Cambyses
spirit of rapine, but in all honor and reverence, in search of treasures
which neither moth nor rust can corrupt, nor thieves carry away—4
treasure of light out of the darkened place, and of knowledge out of
that place where usually no device or knowledge is found!

We are grieved now to lose the old Egyptian names, but at this
time they naturally become exchanged for Greek. On becomes Helio-
polis. This becomes Abydos. Thebes (called in the Bible No Am-
men), becomes Diospolis Magna. Pilak becomes Philus. Petpieh is
Aphroditopolis (the city of Athor). Even the country itself, from
being called Khem (answering to Ham in the Bible), is henceforth
known as Egyptus.

In the reign of the second Ptolemy lived a writer of uncommon in-
terest and importance to us now—Manetho, the Egyptian priest. We
have only fragments of the writings of Manetho, but they are of
and immediate value'to us; fragments of the history of Egypt, which
he wrote at the command of Ptolemy Philadelphus. He wrote in
Greek, of course, deriving his information from the inscriptions in the
temples. What would not we give new for his knowledge of the
Egyptian language! and what would we not give to have his works
complete! His abode was at that great seat of learning where Moses
got his lore—Heliopolis. He is the very man we want—to stand on
the ridge of time, and tell us who are below, .what was doing in the
depths of the old ages. He did so stand, and he did fully tell what he
saw; but his words are gone to the four winds, and but a few uncon-
nected declarations have reached us. We have a list of old kings from
him, and Josephus has, by extracting, preserved some passages of his
account of the Hebrews when in Egypt; but Josephus, in his ensem-
pulous vanity, wishing to make out that his nation were descended
from the Shepherd Kings, puts certain words of his own into Manetho’s
mouth, thus impairing our trust in the poor extracts we have. It ap-
pears, and should be remembered, that the Egyptian records make no
mention of the Hebrews, and that what Manetho told of them must
therefore be derived from other and probably inferior sources. His
list of kings is preserved in some early Christian writers; but the dim-
culty has been how to use it, and how far to trust it. I must not enter
here upon the story, however interesting, of the ﬂuctuations of the
credit of Manetho. Suﬂice it that all recent discoveries have directly
tended to establish his character as an able and conscientious historian.
The names he gives have been found inscribed in temples and tombs,
and even, latterly, in the Pyramids; and the numerous and nameless
incidental notices which occur in the study of ancient monuments have,
in this instance, gone to corroborate the statements of Manetho. As
the monuments are a conﬁrmation of his statements, so are his state-
ments a key to the monuments; and with this intimation of unbounded
obligations to Manetho, we must leave him.

One event which happened in the reign of the second Ptolemy we
must just refer to, as it is connected with the chronological questions
which make up so much of the interest of the history of Egypt. The

