510 um um.

day was almost wholly upon the cliffs, above the ﬁne broken rocksof
the shore. and sometimes descending among them. Almost allthe
men.we met carried spears. At a sharp turn on the shore. when my
companions had just disappeared behind a point before me, two men
with spears ran up to me, one on each side my horse, and laid holdd
the bridle,—one of them shaking his weapOn in my face. Whether
these were any of the coast robbers we had heard of. I do not know.
My party were within call; but I thought there would be troubleml
a scufﬂe if I brought our servants and these men into collision: sol
twitched my rein out of their hands, laughed in their faces. and rode
away. They made no attempt to stop me; and their purpose may but:
been merely to beg.-—At distances all along the shore are cafés, where
the inhabitants sit under trellises, or garlauded sheds, to smoke and talk.
—and also, it seemed, to take their meals.-—Many anglers were busy
at the pools among the rocks,—each one carrying his spear with
fishing-rod. Many women came down to the shore for the ﬁsh caught:
and others were busy in the plantations. stripping the mulberry trees.
—Nothing struck us more than the number of convents which crested
the lower eminences of the Lebanon. With them. and the scattered
villages, the region looked more pe0pled than any rural district we had
seen for long. .

Batroun, on its promontory, was in view for some hours: and I think ‘
it was before we lost sight of Batroun that we saw. to the south,tb¢
headland on which stands Beirout, the limit of our journey ;—the pan
from which we were to set sail.—Between them, and nearer to Batroun.
lies Djebail.—-the old Cmsarea: and there we stopped for our noon-(la!
teak—visiting the Citadel,—so battered by British guns,—and .lhe
granite pillars, which lie in large numbers in the sea, and are built into
the neighboring walls.—About a mile south of Djebail, we crossed the
Natural Bridge, which is as prett as Natural Bridges always are; Ind
soon after, turned up the rapid. ciear stream which ﬂows down Wadee
Ibraheern Adonis. My mare seemed as little inclined to cross the
bridge as the stream,-—-not liking its steep steps at both ends,its height.
and its having no parapet. The banks below were rich with Oleander!
and other shrubs; and the whole scene so striking that we were g
to find our tents pitched not far off, on the shore, in the angle made by
the river and the sea. It was yet early; and we had many hours
before us for enjoying our Sunday repose. There was something sad
about it too: for this was to be our last evening in our tents. We in
been very happy in our tents; and I. for one, knew that I should never
taste that kind of life again. For hours this day. I lay upon the sand.
or walked along the margin of the waves; and I seem now to be I
to recall all that I saw, and all that passed through my mind, during 1
day‘of busy thought.

he blue ridge to the south, which showed white specks in the still-

set light, was the limit of our travels, the dwellings of Beirout Mug
visible even thus far. Before me lay the sea, our homeward path:
and behind lay the East,—-the birth-place of the Ideas which hit"
hitherto governed mankind. Within me werestirring speculation!

