ammo: upon was no“ mp. 377

parts of England, except for our Arab train, and the talk about wild Be-
doueens, for whom our scouts were carefully on the look-out.

This reminds me of a little adventure of this day which is not down
in my journal, but which I clearly remember, from a certain novelty of
sensation which attended it. The face-ache which I had had almost
from the day I left Cairo, had now increased to a degree which was
really terrible. This morning it was worse than ever; and I dis-
mounted, partly from the restlessness of pain, and partly because I
thought exercise might act as a counter-irritant. I was advised to try
smoking; and I found great relief for a short time. My own arty
passed me while I was looking better from this cause, and were t ere-
fore not anxious about me. But before half the long train had gone by,
the pain came back; and when Alec and the baggage camels passed, I
could neither speak nor make a sign. I sank down on the wet ground
fainting, just after the last had gone by. Still the rear-guard were‘to
come. They passed without seeming to heed me. I was on slopin
high ground which happened to command the bases of the hills for
about a mile; and with my dizzy sight I could. see, opening my eyes
from time to time, when the first of the troop went out of sight, and
when half were gone, and, at. length, when the last disappeared. Here
I was alone, indeed, on the hills of Judea. I did not expect to be long
alone; for I supposed that the wild Bedoueens would pounceupon me
immediately: but I was too weak to feel frightened. I tried to rise
several times; but I could not stand. I do not know exactly how long
it was, but it must have been a considerable time, before two arme
Arabs came up, shouting, and running from different directions. They
were of our escort. The had seen me in passing, and had run on for
my camel, which presently appeared. They lifted me on; but it was’
still some time before we could make any way. At last, I saw what
encouraged me to an effort; though indeed I had every motive before
in the danger I knew my poor Arabs to be in, so far from their com-
rades: but now there was hope in view. One of the gentlemen had
stopped to arrange his an: and he and his dragoman and driver were
dismounted, within hal a mile of us. In a little while, he had sent on
for brandy, and made my camel kneel till I should be more fit to pro-
ceed. And then, of course, up came my kind friends, who could
hardly be persuaded that it was nobody’s fault. I felt throughout that
I should be missed at lunch and hardly before; for, in a caravan like
ours, everybody is supposed to be somewhere in the train; and my
friends were aware that I thought them more watchful over me than
was at all necessary. As it was, I know better than any of them what
it isto be alone on the wild hills of Judea.

About two hours short of Hebron, the shrubs congregated into thickets
about our path, and we had white briar roses dancing on the sprays.
Here the beautiful cyclamen began to peep out from under gnarled roots of
old trees, or stones, or bunches of moss. From place to place, I henceforth
saw this delicate and graceful ﬂower, till we left the skirts of Lebanon
for the shore of the Mediterranean. I was presently surprised to see
Mr. E. promoted downwards from his camel to riding the Sheikh’s

