450' smear: urn.

with them. Our dragoman did his best to interpret: but he,aMo-
hammedan, was not very clear about the distinctions between Jews,
Samaritans and Christians: and we are not very sure of the information
obtained through him. We thought these Samaritans good-looking
mph, and all the better looking for the high, helmet-like, antique
turban that they wore. They said their number was sixty at Nablom.
and forty elsewhere ;—only a hundred in the whole world. This they
declared over and over again. They said—what we could hardly
credit—that their chief priest was not here, but at Genoa,—with the
remnant of their sect. They keep their great feasts,—three in the
year,—as punctually as the Jews ; going up to Gerizim as the Jews used
to go up to the Temple; and reading the Law from sunrise till noon.

The Synagogue is a small, ordinary—lookin chapel, within acut-
tained recess of which is kept the old copy of t e Pentateuch. Itwas
shown to us, after some entreaty on our part. I petitioned to be al-
lowed to touch it, “ out of respect :” but the priest said that even he
must wash and put on new clothes before he could touch it: an“
observed, indeed, how carefully he held it by the ends of the rollers.
within which it is furled, like the copies of the Law in Jewish sym-
gogucs. He never for a moment ceased his care not to touch the rel-
lum. The text is clear, small and even ;-the lines continuous, and
not broken into words. The ancient vellum is much tattered. 0"
course; but it is carefully mounted on stout parchment. It we I
striking scene—this remnant of the ancient sect, collected in their little
synagogue, and seen by the light of two dim candles. They gave me
every opportunity of observing their countenances, and in a good light;
for they were so struck with my trumpet that they crowded roundme.
with the candles, wherever I moved: and, if they were too much en-
grossed with this novelty to attend sumciently to our questions, they
at least gave me every facility for noting their picturesque and cattle“
faces. There was something shocking, too, in their eagerness about In
ear-trumpet, when we were full of their ancient history as Samaritan!-

It was new dark: and we were lighted through the archwayl.
down the hill on our way home, by a single candle, which bum
steadily in the still air. I bathed in the spring which bubbled up 0m
of the ground, among the gardens near our encampment: and afterm
we read aloud the 4th chapter of John, and the history of the Jewiﬁll
and Samaritan controversy, that our memories might not be treacherotl‘
on the spot. While we were thus reading in our tent, the jackal '35
in full cry on the slepes of Gerizim. _

We went up the hill again, th‘e next morning, to see the city lying
in its valley,'and admire the picturesque Nablous peOple sitting an
walking in their cemetery ; and it was past seven before we moun -
Nothing can be more cheerful than the valley beyond Nablous. The
fountains are innumerable. Every few minutes we were pass“!
brimming cisterns, bubbling springs, and shining breaks; and stresm‘
lets came down from the hills to the right hand and the left. Of
course, the valley is fertile, and to-day, the reapers were busy among
the barley all along the valley; and the waving crops on the upland!

