434 smart urn.

felt as if we trod upon their dust wherever we turned at the footof this
Mount: but it was a surprise to be told that we were actually standing
in their sepulchre. Whether this is likely to be true, we did not
know: but there can be no doubt of this being a place of sepulture.
Many passages diverged from the entrance: and though there were no
inscriptions, nor other express guidance, the recesses and niches showed
plainly enough that these caverns, reached by a mere hole among the
olive-roots, had been an abode of the dead.

Then we went up (and not for the only time) to the summit of 01i-
vet, which is really a long and toilsome walk from the city, and not a
mere ascent of a gentle slope, as we had always at home supmd.
The Convent of the Ascension stands on this ridge; and a family lives
on the spot, to keep and show the Mosque which covers the foot-print
of Christ,—the spot from which he sprang from the earth! The other
is in the Mosque of Omar. It seemed hard to encounter this idolatrous
nonsense in such a place; but the Mount is high and wide; and else-
where our feelings might remain undisturbed. We ascended the
minaret. the second time we came here, for the sake of the view: and
there is no other to be compared to it. We commanded the whole city,
as it lay on the opposite summit; and a truly noble city it looked.
Every cupola, and almost every stone, was distinct to the eye through
that pellucid atmosphere, and the whole mass absolutely glittered
against the clear sky. We could follow out by the ﬂat roofs the nar-
row winding streets, and mark the extent of the many unoccupied
spaces now laid waste, but where there was once “ prosperity within
her palaces.” How glorious must the Temple buildings have looked
from here, towering over the Valley of Kedrou. and the gilded roof of
the Sanctuary ﬂashing in the sun ! We could now see, as on a pre-
ceding Friday, the ga roups scattered about the green lawns of the
Mosque of Omar. Olyoﬁl, other groups might have been seen there.
among the colonnades of the temple courts ;—the gentiles in their court;
the money-changers and market people in the outer range,—the wo-
men going up with their offerings, and the priests passing to and fro on
their services. This was a sight, too, for the Roman soldiers who might
come up hither from the encampment of their legion below. They
would see the smoke of the sacriﬁce curling up into the clear evening
sky; and the watchman relieving uard upon the walls. If the breeze
blew hitherward, they might pussi ly hear the challenge of the semi-
nels: and, at all events, the glorious martial music of the Hebrews,—
the full swell of their wind instruments,—a music beyond compare for
rousing valor or devotion,—-would come on the night wind, to thrill or
southe the souls of the very foe. This was the spot for seeing how the
Lion of Judah stood at bay with the hunters. From hence spread a
wide view of that country, rich from side to side,—from where the
Dead Sea glittered in the morning sun, and the plain of Jordan spread
like a garden, on the east, to where, on the west, the pastures were
clothed with ﬂocks, and the hills teemed with corn, and oil, and wine.
-—that rich country which the Hebrews might have en'oyed in luxury,
if they could have remained submissive to Rome. [gut that country

