132 mamas ms.

were a pretty-sight—the baskets of henneh, the spears and daggers,
and the curiosities dug out from the tern les.

Having happily some idea what to loo for here, we hastened to the
small apeos of Beyt-el-Wellee, a quarter of a mile from the large tem-

le, while we yet had full daylight. The view from the entrance is

autiful, commanding the recess of fertile ground which seems to ﬂow
in from the river, and ﬁll the angle between the hills. This recess was
clustered with palms which were soft] swa ing their shadowy heads
below us. The opposite shore was 0 the , right yellow of evening;
and to the right, below us, stood the massive temple of Kalib’-sheh,
with its outworks of heaped stones, and its traces of terraces, ﬂights of
steps, and quays, all the way down to the river. This little rock-tem-
ple of Beyt-el-Wellee is as interesting as anything in Egypt, except
the remains of the First Period. It is full of the glory of the great
Ramases again. But it is not dedicated to Ra, but to Amunra—not to
the Sun of the Universe, but to the Spiritual Sun—the universal cen-
tre of Being—the Unknown and Un'utterable—the God of Gods. With
him is joined Kneph, the ram-headed god, the animating Spirit of the
creation, which gives Life to its organized beings—thus working toge-
ther with Phthah, the creator, or Artisan-Intellect. The third deity of
this little temple is the virgin goddess Anouké, the goddess of Purity
and Household ties. She appears very frequently in the more ancient
temples, and was especially honored in this southern region, where she
becomes quite familiar, with her feather crown, her sceptre of lotus in
one hand, and the symbol of Life in the other.

The a proach to the cave entrance is between quarried rocks covered
with sculptures of extraordinary merit; of which I shall have to speak
presently. The temple itself consists of only two chambers :—--the
outer hall and the Holy Place. At ﬁrst, one’s impression is that one
can see nothing, except the two elegant polygonal pillars which were
supporting this roof ages before they gave the hint of the early Doric.
A few hieroglyphic signs on the faces of these pillars engage the eye;
. which is then led on to distinguish bands of color; and presently to
perceive that the walls have been divided into compartments by mar-
gins of color, and rows of hieroglyphic signs. Some dim appearance
of large ﬁgures, under the ﬁlms of dust and mould, is next perceived;
and in the inner chamber, it was plain, as Mr. E. pointed out to me,
that one ﬁgure had been washed. There were the tricklin of the
water, from the feet to the ground; and the ﬁgure was, thougﬁsdim, so
much brighter than everything else, that I felt irresistibly tempted to
try to cleanse a bit of the wall, and restore to sight some of its ancient
paintings. We sent down to the boat—about half a mile, for water,
tow, soap, and one or two of the crew; and while the rest of my party
went to explore the great modern temple, I tucked up my sleeves,
mounted on a stone, and began to scrub the walls, to show thewaly
Hasan what I wanted him to do. I would let no one touch the ,
however, till I had convinced myself that no color would come oﬂl
The colors were quite fast. We might rub with all our strength with-
out injuring them in the least. It was singularly pleasant work, bring-

