306 EASTERN LIFE.

from the distance of several days’ Journey. The burying-ground seen
by N 1ebuhr near N aszeb which, as I have already mentioned, I passed
without visiting, . . . appears to have been an ancient ceme-
tery of the same kind. formed at a time when hieroglyphical characters
were in use among all the nations under Egyptian inﬂuence. As there
are no countries where ancient manners are so permanent as in the
desert, it is probable that the same customs of sepulture then prevailed
which still exist; and that the ”burial-ground described by N 1ebuhr by
no means proves the former existence of a city.”

I wish some one who can read the Egyptian hieroglyphics would go
and examine into this matter. Laborde mentions tablets slightly,—-the
tablets which we saw, and supposes that some attempts to ﬁnd copper
may have been made here, which might attract Egyptian workmen.
If such works were ever begun here, they mast have been immediately
relinquished.

We retraced our steps to the entrance of the wadee, and then, turn-
ing to the left, entered upon Wadee Mokatteb ,—the Written Valley.
I was so busy thinking over what we had just seen, that I forgot to ask
the name of this new wadee, or to take heed to what was about me,
when a rock turning off to the left caught my eye, and roused me at
once. It was covered with inscriptions, from base to summit ;—cover-
ed as thick as the letters would stand; not only on the smooth‘parts of
the stone, but wherever the characters could be put. I was the last of
the troop; and they had certainly all passed by without noticing this
rock. Ishouted, and waved my courbash to bring them back; they
turned, but did not come. They all drew to the side of the wadee;
and I presently found that they too had discovered wonderful rocks.
For six miles or so now, we passed between rocks inscribed all over
with characters which nobody can read. -They are irregularly carved;
-—some larger, some smaller, from (I think) nearly a foot high to half
an inch. Those of us who had good sight perceived that there were
inscriptions much higher up than we had been given to understand by
travelers. On many a smooth natural tablet, high up on the face of the
mountain, could I see mysterious lines,.like those below, when the
sunlight or shadow fell favorably: but the unbroken mass of inscrip-
Itions was between the base and a height of twenty feet—Almost every
large stone which lay 1n the valley also bore similar records. Some
were rather lightly traced ,—-little more than scratched,—on the stone:
but many were deep cut.

This character was unknown at the time when Justinian built the
Convent of Mount Sinai; and it cannot yet be read. At ﬁrst, the dis-
coverers had a natural hope that these gravings on the rock might
prove to be the work of the Hebrews: but that idea has long been given
up. From very early ages,’the mountains we were now approaching
had been sacred places and objects of pilgrimage; and after the Chris-
tian Era, many thousands of Christians lived 1n this peninsular,—some
in monasteries, and very many as anchorites, scattered through the
valleys and among the rocks about Serbal and Sinai. For some hun-
dreds of years, pilgrims trooped hitherwards , and the learned now ,

