124 annex ml.

dwellings lie between. The sand was deep and soft, but, for once, de-
lightfully cool to the feet, at this early morning hour. The sand has
been so blown up against the sphinxes as to leave but little of them
visible. There are four on each hand, as 'you go up to the propyla :
but one is wholly covered; and ﬁve others are more or less hidden.
Two are unburied; but their features are nearly gone. The head of
another is almost complete, and very striking in its wise tranquillity of
countenance. Two rude statues stand beside the sphinxes at the en-
trance of the dromos; and two colossi lie overthrown and shattered
beside their pedestals at the inner end of the dromos, and before the
propyla. The cement seems to have fallen out between the stones of
the propyla: but over their mouldering surface are war-sculptures
dimly traceable :—the conquests of Ramases again. Within the te-
way is the hall where ten Osirides are ranged, ﬁve on each han , di-
viding the hall into three aisles. Here I saw, for the ﬁrst time, how
these massive temples were roofed. The ten Osirides supported the
heavy architrave, whose blocks joined, of course, over the heads of the
colossi. From this architrave to the outer walls were laid massive blocks
of stone, which formed the roof. We shall see hereafter that when it
was desired to light the interior, the roof over the middle aisle was
raised above that of the side aisles; and the space left open, except for
the necessary supporting blocks, or (as at El-Kamak) a range of stone
gratings.

The Osirides here are very rude; composed of stones of various shapes
and sizes, cemented together. I suppose they were once covered with
cement; but now they look, at the first glance, like mere .fragments of
pillars. A second look, however, detects the crossed arms, and the cro-
sier and ﬂagellum—Of the adytum at the extremity nothing was visible
but the globe and asps over its door; and the sand was so drifted into
the hall that' we could see over the wall at the upper end.—It will be
perceived that this is a rude and ruined temple, with no interest be-
on ing to it but its antiquity and its array of sphinxes.

hat evening, we had the promise of another temple for the next
morning’s work. We reached Dakkeh, the Pselché of Strabo, at 10
P. 11.: but we could not moor under the western bank, from the strength
of the wind, and were obliged to stand across to the other shore.

The morning of the mm was bright and cool, and we were early
ashore, where we saw a good deal besides the temple. A village,
small, but not so minute as usual, stands near the bank; and its in-
habitants are good-looking and apparently prosperous. I saw from the
top of the propylon, a large patch of fertile land lying back on the edge
of the Desert, or in it. A canal or ditch carried water from the river
to this land, where there were two or more sakias to lift it. At least,
I saw a belt of ﬂourishing castor-oil plants and other shrubs extendin
from the river to where they met the sakias. Further in the Desert,
observed more of those gray expanses which tell of cultivable soil be-
neath, and of former irrigation. This must have been a ﬂourishing
district once; and it is not a distressed one now.

The women were much adorned with beads—blue, black, and white.

