468 am am.

shown as one of these caves; some, however, calling it the place of
Elijah’s altar. It is a very ﬁne grotto, in the ﬁnest position that fugi-
tives could desire—hardly within hearing of the waves washingtbe
base of the mountain, but overlooking a wide expanse of sea and shore.
The grotto is evidentl artiﬁcial, at least in its ﬁnish; and Pococke sup-
poses it to be entire y cut out of the rock. It is about 15 feet high.
40 long, and 20 wide. Some simple tombs of those who have died
here are at hand; and among them is that of an infant of the Brimh
Consul at Jerusalem, whose lady was tenderly nursed here by the kind-
hearted monks.

Our hosts apologized for our dinner to-day. It was Friday; and
they gave us ﬁsh, soupcmaigre and eggs, and promised meat to—morrol‘.
But these good tliings, with liqueurs, “tonics” and coffee, gave as:
very gentle idea of fasting. We had to amuse us within doors, an an-
cient map of Jerusalem, which may be said to be as much like that
city as any other; and some European newspapers, sent up to us from
the Harlequin, which was riding in the bay below, and whose oﬁcers
had scampered after us during our morning ride—rattled up to the con-
vent—taken breath, and galloped down again—jumped into the Hat'-
lequin's boat—sent her back again with these newspapers, and had
them pitched up the mountain, in no time. I doubt whether “Arab
intensity” itself transcends that of British naval oﬁcers, on a scampﬂ
ashore. We hoped that their dragoman was reclining at ease some-
where, to recover his breath and spirits.

The next da , April 17th, we had a charming ride to Acre and back.
Not being trou led with baggage mules, we could ride as we pleased;
and delightful it was to canter along the Bay of Acre, over the ﬁrm
sand. '1 here were three wrecks ashore, telling of recent storms where
allwas now so bright and glorious. We had to cross the Kishwv
where it ﬂows into the sea; and it was deep enough to require some
care. We escaped a wetting by sending in a man, who had already
waded through, and who showed us the best fording place. We cros-
ed another stream—the Belus. A great quantity of sponge is thrown
up on this coast.

Acre is a wretched-looking place at present. The natural featurﬂ
about it are beautiful—its sea, and the rocks under water, a perfe“
feast to the eye; but the town iwelf is a sad image of ruin. The ll‘
zaars are poor; the people dull; and the mighty fortiﬁcations battered
to pieces. The outer walls were in course of repair; and among “'9
workmen, we observed some convicts in chains. The distance of A010
from our convent we reckoned to be from fourteen to sixteen mile?-
When we returned, we were duly hungry; but were entreated to W.“
an hour for dinner, as more guests had arrived. We languished "1
hunger till half past six, when we were summoned to table in the 9"
loon. There was no dinner on the table; nor did it come for aquaﬂ“
of an hour—during which time we had sufﬁcient amusement in 000'
templating our position. Here were the Russian Countess, whom '7‘
had left prostrated in the Church of the Holy Sepulchre at Jenmlemt
her attendant lady, physician, and secretary. Beside these ﬁercely

