THE RED an. 299

tor-clothing and ﬁres. Then I usually went out, to survey the camp
and scenery, and try to get rid of, or better endure, the sense of irrita-
tion from fatigue and heat which was at this hour the hardest to bear.
By this time, the impression of that suffering is much weakened, while
the images of the Arab ﬁres, the dim tents and dark camels, the tower-
ing mountains ﬁtfully lighted by the moon, or the dim plain, all cano-
pied over by the lustrous heavens, or the quiet murmuring sea, ﬂowing
to my feet, are as fresh and delicious as ever. How often have
stolen round the camp, just beyond the tent rapes, enjoying the sight
of the camel drivers before their ﬁres. or the guard grouped about a
lively story-teller! How often have I wandered away among the clefts
of the rocks, or so far along the beach as that I might sing unheard all
A the beloved old music which I never utter at home, in our little island
where one can never get out of earshot !—Sooner or later, however,
Alee was seen going to our tent with the boiling kettle, and I was to
be refreshed by tea. After tea, we were all more awake and lively,—
just enough so to relish a rubber, though nothing else. A rubber kept
us amused and merry till ten o’clock; and I hardly think anything
else would have done it. We cared little about it; but it was better
than vainly trying to read, and being too sleepy to speak civilly.-——At
ten o’clock, the gentlemen went to their tent; Alee brought the water-
basins, and fastened down the tent curtain; and I put up my canopy,
and made my bed, and Was presently asleep.—Such was the ordinary
course of our days in the Desert.

On the Saturday morning. our fourth day from Bissateen, I saw the
Red Sea. At the moment when its distant gleam caught my eye, Miss
0., who was at the head of the troop, turned and waved her hand, and
there was an immediate press forward. The tracks turned northwards,
and we were presently upon the beach. One and all dismounted, and
snatched at the glorious shells which lay in heaps and banks along the
shore. All pockets and bags were ﬁlled, and we were all presenting
one another with the most exquisite shells we could ﬁnd where all were
beautiful.‘ We were like a party of children; and like children, we
were unaware of our folly. These shells were all dead, and must soon
crumble into lime-dust. Nothing in our journey ave me a more dis-
tinct impression of our distance from home than 5m rapturous arrival
on the shores of the Red Sea. Yet there were some serious thoughts
connected with the spot. We were now at that point where many
scholars believe that the Egyptian host overtook the Hebrews. All
progress to the south was barred by the high promontory of Ataka,
which juts into the sea; and if the Egyptians came from the north, the
only escape for the Hebrews was by the way we had come, leading
back only to the Nile. The sea was blue and clear beyond descrip-
tion. Northwards, a narrow strip of shore lay between the sea and
the brown, precipitous rocky mountains of the Egyptian coast. To
the north—east, with the blue gulf between, lay the white line of Suez;
and the Indian steamer was discernible, moored :

The Arabian hills, soft in their amethyst hues, shut
east. It was an exquisite scene.

