226 nan-rm am.

that if many times as much was offered, they could not do such a thing;
and this be affirmed with an oath.”*

I fear that all such descriptions are thrown away, in regard to the
object of giving to the readers of them any idea of what the Pyramids
are. They are useful as records, however, and extremely interesting to
travelers in going over the ground. As for the impression,—there is
nothing like the momentary sensation of seeing the blue daylight at the
top of the entrance passage, when one is on one’s way out. More real
astonishment is felt at that moment than from reading all (he descrip-
tions of all authors.

After resting for luncheon on a block on the east side of the Pyra-
mids, we visited some tombs, very interesting from their extreme anti-
quity, but too much like those of Benee Hasan to justify description
here. The preparations for feasts, numbering stock, &c., go on here
as elsewhere. showing that people lived between ﬁve and six thousand
years ago, much as they do now. It was hereabouts that that precious
ring was found which ought to be in the British Museum, but which
remains in the hand of Dr. Abbott. at Cairo—the gold ring of Cheeps,
with his cartouche cut upon it. In Dr. Abbott’s possession, too, are some
gold ornaments with “Menes” marked upon them. Treasures of such
singular value as these should surely be national property.

And now the time was come for visiting the Sphinx. What a mon-
strous idea was it from which this monster sprang! True as I think
Abdallatif’s account of it, and just as is his admiration,I feel that a
stranger either does not see the Sphinx at all, or he sees it as a night-
mare. When we first passed it,I saw it only as a stran e-looking
rock; an oversi ht which could not have occurred in the oden time,
when the head 8bore the royal helmet or the ram’s horns. Now I was
half-afraid of it. The full serene gaze of its round face, rendered ugly
lily the loss of the nose, which was a very handsome feature of the old

gyptian face—this full gaze and the stony calm of its attitude almost
turn one to stone. So life-likevso huge—so monstrous—it is really a
fearful spectacle. I saw a man sitting in a fold of the neck, as a ﬂy
might settle on a horse’s mane. In that crease he reposed, while far
over his head extended the vast penthouse of the jaw, and above that,
the dressed hair on either side the fuse—each bunch a mass of stone
which might crush a dwelling house. In its present state, its propor-
tions cannot be obtained; but Sir G. Wilkinson tells us,1‘ “Pliny sa 5 it
measured from the belly to the highest part of the head sixty-three eet;
its length was one hundred and forty-three; and, the circumference of
its head round the forehead one hundred and two feet—all cut out in
the natural rock, and worked smooth.” Fancy the long well-opened
eyes, in such proportion as this—eyes which have gazed unwinking
into vacancy, while mighty Pharaohs, and Hebrew law-givers, an
Persian princes, and Greek philosophers, and Anthony with Cleopatra
by his side, and Christian anchorites, and Arab warriors, and European

' Relation de l’Egypte, Livre 1., ch. 4.
1' Modern Egypt and Thebes, I. 356.

