comer; or new earn. an

inclosing within its walls the well at which it is said Moses was the ﬁrst
todrink. The monks believe that Justinian gave the whole of the penin-
sula to their establishment; and that so many sacred‘buildin and
hermitages arose in consequence, that six or seven thousand mo and
hermits were inhabiting the region at the time of the Mohammedan
conquest.

The worship is now solely that of the Greek church: but there
was a time when many forms of rel' ion were on an equality here.
Beside the great Greek church,stood the Mosque, whence the Muezzin
might, within the walls of this Christian convent, call the Faithful to
prayer. The Latins, Armenians and Syrians had chapels also: but
the Greek is the only one now in use. There were about thirty monks
when we were there, some of whom appeared to have suffered from
the severity of their rule. They have an establishment at Cairo, which
is a resource to them against much want and danger which they must
otherwise suffer under. Their corn comes from Cairo; most of the
soil for their several gardens comes thence on the backs of camels.
These gardens are of great importance to them,—-not only because
they depend on them for their supply of vegetables, while never touch-
ing animal food, and because they propitiate the Bedoueens with fruit,
but because their reputation largely depends on the great quantity of
medicinal and sacred herbs which they send into the world every sea-
son. The gardens are carefully cultivated,terrsced,and well irrigated.
When we were there, the blossomy almonds and peaches,and the vivid
green of the herb beds, among the tall dark cypresses and spreading
olives, were a feast to the e e.

Before we went, we calledy this the Convent of St. Catherine, as every-
body does. We had read of it under that name, and seen that name
under every print of the place that had come before our eyes. Our
surprise was therefore great when a monk who had taken the vows
twenty years before, declared that he did not know it by that name-
Being asked whether the convent had nothing to do with St. Catherine,
he replied, only by the bones of a hermitess, named Catherine, having
been found on the mountain above the convent which bears her name.
Perplexed by this, I was yet more surprised when I observed a little
Catherine-wheel rudely carved over one of the posterns: and a picture
of the saint, leaning on her wheel, in the library, with her name at
length. In the chapel also her relics lie in state,——those bones which
were found on the mountain-top, and were brought hither by the monks
a few years after the establishment of the convent. The monk, how-
ever, stuck to his declaration that the convent had no connection with
St. Catherine: and we suspected there was some misunderstanding
between him and the interpreter-,—our dragoman. Since my return,
however,I have found the solution of our difﬁculty in Burckbardt,’
who seems to elucidate everything he touches. He says :—“ M. Seet-
zen has fallen into a mistake in calling the convent by the name of St.
Catherine. It is dedicated to the Transﬁguration, or, as the Greeks

’ Travels in Syria and the Holy Land, p. 553.

