non sum 10 mm. 339

it “ the Convent." Laborde explored this island, crossing to it by a
raft, which he and his companion, M. Linant, rowed with pa -branches
for cars: and they planted the French ﬂag on a rock, and thus took
possession of a place which had been deserted since the fourteenth
century. The Crusaders fortiﬁed it; and their walls remain. My
note of its appearance on the 14th of last March is, “the island of
Graia uprose brown from the blue waters ;—two brown eminences,
with brown fortiﬁcations upon them.”

On our arrival at the head of the Gulf, (I think, about an hour before
reaching our tents.) we had fallen into the great Hadj route—the broad
trodden way by which the annual caravan proceeds to Mekkeh. As we
rounded the head, of course we had the sea on our right hand : and on
the left was the plain of Akaba,—the end of the great Wadee Araba
which extends hither from the Dead Sea, and which is supposed to
have been once the channel of the Jordan, in the days when it ﬂowed
uninterruptedly from its fountains in Anti-Libanus to discharge itself
into this Gulf, before that convulsion which caused it to be lost in the
Dead Sea.’ This plain looked very barren,—stretching in between ap-
proaching lines of mountains; and its soil is too salt, for two or three
miles inland, to grow anything but a few stunted bushes. In the neigh-
borth of our tents, we observed a few inclosures; but saw no houses
that 'night. There were people in abundance, however, ﬁlling our
little camp, which was considered so far from safe, in the absence of
the rest of the caravan, that no less than eight guards were appointed
for the night. This was arranged with the Governor of Akaba and that
important personage, Sheikh Hussein, on whom so much of our fate
was to depend for some weeks to come. They came just when we
ladies had dropped asleep while waiting for our late dinner, and thus
we missed seeing them. They had pipes and coffee in the gentlemen’s
tent, where they gave an impression of being both grasping, and in one
another’s interest. How it turned out with regard to the Sheikh, we
shall have abundant occasion to see.

In the morning of the 15th, we were up and in the sea before sun-
rise ;—the clear, soft, warm sea! How beautiful our place of encamp-
ment was, under the palms upon the shore! While we were dress-
ing, we heard that two of the gentlemen had arrived,—a deputation
from the parties behind, that no time might be lost in pursuing the
negotiation with the Sheikh about going to Petra. When I came out
of our tent, I found one of these gentlemen writing his jOurnal on the
shore—after his long ride, and before breakfast! There he sat on the
shingle, book on knees, ink-horn before him,a ﬁne example of energy!

The rest of the caravan might be seen, a little moving knot of ob-
jects, on the opposite shore. Miss C.’s ﬂoating white veil told who they
were. While we were at breakfast in the open air, they came ,up,
heated and hungry—glad of anything we could give them till their
own meal could be prepared.

After breakfast, I wrote my journal in our tent; but found it so hot
that when I had done, and wanted to read Laborde, I looked about for
some shady place near, where I might have the advantage of any air

