346 Issues urn.

white, lilac, black, gray, and green! A stain of sky-blue and gray
winds away in a ground of crimson; and a ribbon of scarlet and white
in a ground of lilac; and so on. The stone is extremely friable, so
that the mere rubbing with the ﬁnger end turns it into dust. The cor-
rosion of the surface of the rocks by time and weather has so much the
appearance of architectural intention, that it is at ﬁrst difﬁcult in Petra
itself to distinguish the worn from the chiseled face of the precipices:
and while approaching Petra, one seems to be perceiving the rudiments
of the wonders of the place to come.

Alternating with these towering precipices, and at times surmounting
them, are rounded eminences which look like downs, both from their
forms and the greenish hue which is spread over them by their being
strewn with the spines of the tamarisk. Tufted with blackish shrubs,
they are not beautiful; but no characteristic of this singular scenery is
more distinctive than the contrast between the gaudy precipices and the
pale mountains behind. At the summit of the ﬁrst steep and slippery
pass, we looked abroad upon a noble view, of the billowy sea of moun-
tains round about us, the partially sunned Desert stretching to the
horizon, the sinuous and tufted wadees looking like desert paths among
the sandhills and nearer rocks, and our camel train winding for a mile
back among the pass and recesses below. We felt ourselves reall
now among the haunts of Esau and his tribe, and of the children of
Ishmael, whose hand was against every one, as every one’s hand was
against them. And when, a little further on, we stopped in a hollow
of the hills to rest, it was strange to remember who came here in later
days, and what an extraordinary depot this was for the merchandize of
the East, for a course of centuries. Up this pass came long trains. of
camels, laden with the silks, muslins, spices and ivory of India, and
the pearls of Arabia, and amber, gold and apes from Abyssinia, and all
the ﬁne things that the luxury of EurOpe derived from the far East.
These all came through Petra, and were lodged there for rest, and for
no little trafﬁc, as in a place wholly inaccessible by any foe. The
eagle might pouncesupon the kid among the areas of Petra; and the
‘ lightnings might dart down from the summits. But no human enemy
could enter to steal, or arrow from human hand to destroy. Up this
pass then had wound many a caravan laden with oriental wealth; and
in this hollow had rested perhaps many a company in ambush, and no
doubt many a baﬁled foe. Those single trees, perched on fantastic
heights, were some of them old enough to have been living in those
days, landmarks to the traveler, and signal stations to the desert war-
nor.

Then our path-—our very narrow path, lay over these whitish hills,
now up, now down; and then again we were slipping or jerking down
slopes or steps of gaudy rock. About eleven o’clock, I saw the ﬁrst
excavation,—a square door-way in-a pile of white rock on the right
hand. Finding that we were not to arrive by the entrance which La-
borde declares to be the only one,—-the Silt.-l determined not to dis-
mount, in order to ascertain whether there really was more than one
entrance practicable for beasts of burden. I entered Petra ﬁrst, (after

