PANIAB. . 479

which we were about to visit, to its present southern limit—the Dead
Sea—and ain, to the point where it is believed to have once ﬂowed
into the Re Sea at Akaba. We had in Edom traveled in its ancient
channel; that channel which has been dry for some thousands of years;
and now we were visiting its sources.

Before we reached the ﬁrst of these, we crossed a ﬁne old bridge,
of three arches, roughly paved at the top, and without any parapet,
though it sprang to a great height above the rushing river. Its yellow
stone contrasted ﬁnely with the dark green of the thickets which co-
vered the banks of the stream; and the profusion‘of the blossoms of the
Oleander cast apink glow over these dark thickets. Several herdsmen
had brought their cattle down to drink; and men and cattle were re-
posing in the shade. It was an exquisite picture.

The ﬁrst of the supposed sources of the Jordan which we reached
was at Tel-el-Kader. A pretty wooded hill, level at the top, rises from
the plain ; and from its base issue some abundant springs, which dash
forward among stones so as to make a rapid. Here we stayed some
time to rest; and I sat on a large stone in the water, watching the hub-
bling out of the spring among the ferns and rock ﬁssures, and shaded
by a ﬁg-tree loaded with green fruit.

From thence to Panias—the Caesarea Philippi of the New Testament
—our ride was through scenery resembling that which we had called
park-land between Nazareth and Mount Carmel. We had the same
sIOpes, broken banks, shady hollows and sunny glades ;——and the same
wild ﬂowers by the way side.

Wehad long seen the great Saracenic castle of Panias on its moun-
tain top—looking almost too high to be reached by man or beast. As
we approached we found another castle below, standing beside the
village: and ancient ruins appeared to be scattered here and there, far
and wide over the gloriously beautiful scene. Out of Poussin’s pic-
tures, I never saw anything in the least like the scene, as we looked at
it from under the shade of the olive grove wherein our tents were pitched.
Yet Poussin himself, who put more objects distinctly into his land-
scapes than any other painter, could not have included all that was
here harmoniously combined by Nature’s, master hand ;—-the deep
shadow from beneath which we looked forth—the undulating ground—
the high grass and weeds—the ravine below—the massive peaked ruin
near—the red rocks in front—the western mountains—the town on its
terrace, embosomed in woods and hills—the poplar clump—the mul-
berry rove—the gay horsemen fording the stream—and the high
groun s backing all ;-this combination was magniﬁcent. In Europe,
how far would travelers go to see such a landscape 1

Three of us set forth immediately, to learn something of the objects
of the place: but our guide could speak nothing but Arabic; and he led
us by such a toilsome path, over rubbish and among aperfeot jungle of
weeds, that I turned back, leaving the gentlemen to reconnoitre in pre-
paration for to—morrow’s sight seeing, while I went down into the ravine
to bathe. The stream gushed between two faces of rock, where the
wild vines made a natural trellise overhead ; and under that green canopy

