noses x'r nonN'r srmr. 321

their gods to the profane, but to those only who were to succeed to the
administration of the State: and to such of the priests as were most
approved by their education, learning, and quality.”’

It was the glory of Moses that he saw how such a truth concerned
all the children of men: how this was a matter in which those were
the truly profane who monopolized the truth, and dishonored God by
hiding him from the minds and hearts of mankind at large; and not
those outside who could not pay homage to a God of whom they had
never heard. His was the enterprise of laying open the Mysteries
to all, and of making of the Hebrews a high-caste nation. It could
not be done anywhere but in the Desert. The isolation of the Desert
was required quite as much for the safety of the announcement as for
the training of the people in their puriﬁed faith. In Egypt, or any
other heathen country, the doctrine of Moses would have excited hor-
:ror, as the Atheism' of those days; and he would himself have been
torn to pieces as that greatest of criminals, a revealer of the Mysteries.
He came into the desert to do the daring Deed: and how the results
were estimated in the future days of his nation, Josephus shows us in
a passage of his Reply to Apion which is singularly interesting to us
here. This citizen of a high-caste nation tells Apion that the highest
' and sublimest knowledge held by a few of the gentiles, and enjoyed
only on the rare occasions of their Mysteries, was the daily privilege
of the whole Hebrew people. He says,1' “ Can any government he more
holy than this? or any religion better adapted to the nature of the Deity?
Where, in any place but this, are the whole people, by the special di-
ligence of the priests, to whom the care of public instruction is com-
mitted, accurately taught the principles of true piety? So that the body
politic seems, as it were, one great assembly, constantly kept together,
for the celebration of some sacred mysteries. For those things which
the gentiles keep up for a few days only, that is, during those solemni-
ties they call Mvsxaams and Inr'rrs'r'rons, we, with vast delight, and a
plenitude of knowledge which admits of no error, fully enjoy, and per-
petually contemplate through the whole course of our lives. If you ask
the nature of those things which in our sacred rites are enjoined and
forbidden, I answer, they are simple, and easily understood. The ﬁrst
instruction relates to the Dawn, and teaches that Goo oomnrus ALL
raises, and is a Being every way perfect and happy; that he is self-
existent, and the Sons Cause of all existence; the Beginning, Middle,
and End of all things,” doc.

The Supreme, as made known in the heathen Mysteries, exercised
no immediate government over men; and in order to give them any
idea of a divine government,‘national and subordinate gods were pre-
sented to them, who must, of course, be named. Much superstition in
Egypt was connected with the names of the gods; and the Hebrews
could not, as the history shows us, recognize a protecting god, who was

' It is instructive to see what the “ Atheism” of Epicurus was, in that saying of
his whichfLord Bacon declares (Essay 16, “of Atheism,”) that it is worthy of Plato:
“Non deos vulgi negare profanum; sed vulgi opiniones diis applicare profanum."

1' Com. Ap. lib. 11., cap. 22. Quored by Warburton, Divine Leg. I. 225.

21

