478 am urn.

seen. We had traveled little more than four hours: but we had ar-
rived at the frontier line which divides the Pashalics of Acre andlh-
mascus; and there was an establishment of guards which it was aasdl
to take advantage of for our security at night. These people take nﬂ
here ;—seven piastres for every loaded camel, and so on. They live
in reed huts,—very picturesque, but little serviceable: and the setti-
ment consists merely of three or four of these huts, and a mill. The
stream below the mill spreads out among reeds and little thickets; ad
it is crossed by a long row of stepping-stones. The mill-race gsiﬂ
us up to a pile of rocks, behind which lay a large pond, or small lake
with tiny pebbly beaches, and promontories and little precipiws.—tll
whole hedged in by close thickets of ﬂowering Oleander-a and other
blossoming shrubs. From one of these tiny white beaches. I saw. 5!
a pencil of light in a dark cove, a black duck at anchor; so still that!
looked as if it would never move again. I returned to the tenth
bathing apparatus; crossed the stream by the stepping—stones. weal
behind the deserted mill, and into the mill-race. The water was a
warm that I was tempted to explore this delicious nook by means of it
One dark recess or cavern, in which the water was not above that
feet deep, looked most enticing. I found it hung with vines, and tufted
with delicate ferns, which waved in the continual breeze made by d!
passage of the water. A gush of light through a very low arch in d!
rock tempted me on. I stooped through it, and found myself in II!
shady cove I had seen from the little beach, with the black duck beside
me, still at anchor.

Many hours of the day were yet before us, for rambling, reading ,
sewing and bringing up our journals. I do not know that we .
anywhere a more welcome rest than here on this frontier line of Da-
mascus. And it was not quite our last day in the Holy Land.

We saw from our camp a mysterious-looking arch, high up on tbf
western hill side. I went before breakfast, the next morning (Apn-l
23d), to see what it was. I obtained a glorious view by going; butl
was no wiser about the arch. I found three arches—two of them being
parallel, built close together, and corresponding precisely to the month .
of the cave before which they stood. An aqueduct being out of the ques-
tion in such a place, I cannot imagine what these erections could b8-
The cave, and two others near, were evidently in use; for there ‘30
rags and mats strewn about, and recent marks of fire. The View W
so exquisite, from the verge of the'plain to the south,to the snowy
of Hermon on the north, that I would fain have stayed on the heighl‘v
to see the ﬁrst ﬂood of sunshine cast over the scene: but far belt"-
Giuseppe was setting our breakfast table in the open air: and] must;IL

To-day we crossed the valley of the Jordan at its northern end.
which is closed in by Mount Hermon, now called Djebel Sheikh. Ti"9

lace where we took our mid-day rest was the ancientDan. We 00'
new the country from Dan to Beersheba. At the extremity of th‘
Valley, the mountains gradually subside—their lower slopes b9“!
wooded hills, which we skirted during the latter part of this day’s ride-
We were now familiar with the course of the Jordan—from its spﬁﬂg't

