comm or emu sum. 429

Our fati e to-day had been excessive; our traveling comforts ran short,
and it id not add to our ease to be told that some Bedoueens were
hanging about, and had stolen two of the horses of our escort. News
soon came that the horses were recovered, and that two muskets be-
longing to the thieves had been taken and brought into our little
encampment, where it seemed most likely that the owners would come
for them in the night. One of the gentlemen advised me to take great
care of my watch; which I would thankfully have done, if I had known
how. Our Mohammedan servants, however, were delighted at the op-
portunity of protecting the Christian ladies; and our dragoman lay
down at one end of our tent, and the cook at the other, beg ing us to
feel quite secure. One gallant youth of the company woul not enter
the convent while his mother and sister remained outside; and, there
being no room for him in their tent, he spent the night on the hard
rock—actually on an exposed shelf of rock—with his pistols and dag-
ger on each side of him. All were glad, I believe, when the mornin
came, and we could ride away from ﬂies and ants, and heat, sag
monks too holy to be. hospitable, except to gentlemen who need it
1388“ .

This convent is said to be in possession of many MSS., some of which
are inestimable. All I could learn of these was that the monks permit
Turks to look at them, but neither Jews nor Christians; an arrangement
which appears strangely at variance with that which makes it so difﬁ-
cult for Mohammedans to enter the building. After we had left the
place, we were told that a sort of outhouse—a square buildin “on a
rock, was open to women, if they chose to rest there; but we Eid not
know this in time to compare Its accommodations with those of the
tent. ‘

Our three hours’ ride to Jerusalem was delightful. The road led
over the hills, and was seldom faraway from the bed of Kedron. There
is no ﬁner view of Jerusalem than one from a hill side on this route,
whence it appears perched on a height which seems incredible, while
the intervenin ground is concealed by the nearer eminences. In the
valley of the 18(edron, approaching the ancient Tophet, the cultivation
was very rich—gardens and groves of ﬁ 3, oranges, pomegranates and
olives abounding. We passed Job’s wel , and under the rock caves of
the valley of Gihon, and below the mournful Aceldama, and entered
Jertgsalem by the Jade gate, after an excursion full of interest and
pro t.

