sso mum

of what he calls the Acropolis of Alexandria, the elevation of the Quantita-
cult roads by which it is approached, the hundred steps which must be Inuit
reach it, and the propylon which adorned the entrance, condom thus: *W’hssr-
enter the citadel, we ﬁnd an area bounded by tour equal sides; so that the sh:
this ediﬁce is that of a brick-mould (an oblong square). In the midsthsa:
surrounded by columns; and to thiscourt porticoes succeed: the portimessrrts
divided by columns of the same proportion. . . . Each portico termini: t
the angle where another portion begins : and there is a double pillar which heirs:
at the same time to both,—-being the last of the one portico and the ﬁrst of there:
Within the porticoes, apartments have been built: some, which contain books:
open to those who are disposed to apply themselves to the study of Wyn. I
other to the whole city an easy means of acquiring wisdom: the others have he ,
consecrated to the worship of the ancient gods. These porticoes have a rod on \
mented with gilding, and the capitals of the columns are of copper gilt. Thea: ‘
is decorated with embellishments of diﬂ'erent kinds: each part has its own: he: 1
one place where we see the battles of Perseus. In the midst of the court risen: ‘
pillar of extraordinary height, and which serves to make this spot W' if
when one arrives, one would not know where to go if this column did not serve!
a sign to point out the ways. It makes the citadel as conspicuous to thosecnfr
sea as to those on land. 0n the capital of the pillar are placed all round the a:
ments of everything that exists.’—There are some variations,“ De Sacy pesos!
observe, “between the description of Aphthonius, and that of the Arabian art!!!
but they are of little consequence. I suppose that the rhetorician points out. is 3'
last sentence, the dome erected on the capital of the pillar, which contained a!!!
the principal divinities to whom created things owe their existence, or symbol! 'é
the elements.” De Sacy then declares his belief that this place is no other than?! :
Sxauxox, in arriving at which belief; he follows Strabo’s account of the prim
of that temple.

On the summit of the column is a socket. The question is what it held. Api- .'
thonius says, as we we, “ the elements of everything that exists.” Abdaliatif 9'
on it a cupola: while, according to other Arabian writers, it once supported a but!
statue, which was melted down for coin. On the whole, it seems to De Satyr!!!”
able to suppose that the pillar supported a small observatory, wherein were WP”,
sented astronomical ﬁgures, and deposited the equinoctial circles spoken of It U35
for observations by other writers. ‘ _‘

Enough seems now to be known to relieve the traveler in Egypt from the I!”
uncertainty under which his predecessors have till recently gazed upon POIDFZ"
Pillar. '

 

B.—p. 56.

Directions have been given in abundance by preceding travelers to than”
may follow them up the Nile and across the Desert, about preparations ibr tho 9‘"
pedition. Without repeating what Sir G. Wilkinson and others have said as '5'}
as possible, I may give a few hints which may be of use at least to ladies.

Every traveler who is going to the East must, if he values health and can“
take the sleeping apparatus which is called Levinge’s bag. A hill account of 5‘ ‘5
to be found in Sir G. Wilkinson’s “Modern Egypt and Thebes.” The makers In"
not persuade the purchaser to desert the original make,—with one circle of can!!!"
for a more complicated and expensive one. The simplest is the most con
and, as I can testify, answers every purpose. The comfort of this bag, to those {'1’
are nervous about vermin, or easily annoyed by them, is inestimable. The 0613““,
that one is safe from every intruder tends of itself to give one good nights. T1”
traveler will, of course, see that his bag is never left open for a moment; and “3‘
no one is ever allowed to put a hand within it who cannot be trusted for clean”
It is suﬂ'iciently aired by being shaken out of doors,-the muslin of the canopy W
coarse enough to admit the air freely. The coarser the muslin the bananas loos ”
it keeps out ﬂeas. '

The traveler should not be alarmed if he ﬁnds he sleeps little during SW!”

