122 sas'rsaN Lrvs.

marked by the richest verdure. The freshness, and vastness, and sub-
lime tranquillity of this scene singularly impressed me.

The chief interest about the town or fortress was in the mixture of
relics,—-Egyptian, Greek, Roman, Saracenic and Turkish. The winged
globe, Greek borders and columns, Roman walls, Mosques and Turkish

rtiﬁcations,—all these may be seen in half-an-hour’s walk, heaped
together or scattered about. The modern dwellings appear to be, for the
most part, made of rough stones, instead of mud ;—the stones lying
ready to the hand, I suppose, and the mud having to be brought up the
rock. It is a truly desolate place now.

In the afternoon, we saw the capital :—Dirr, the capital of Nubia.
On the bank, we met the governor and his suite, with whom we ex-
changed salutations. We were walking so slowly, and were so ready
to be spoken to, that the governor might have declared his wishes to us
if he had not been shy. He preferred sending a message through our
Rais, whom we met presently after; and to whom he said that he was
ashamed to ask us himself, but he should be much obliged to us to give
him a bottle of wine. Such was the request of the Mohammedan
governor of the capital of Nubia! Our dragoman could not keep his
countenance when he delivered the message. We did not see his
excellency again, and he never sent for the wine; so he did not sin
against his law by our means. -

Dirr reminded me, more than any other place, of the African villages
which Mungo Park used to set before us. It hastwo noble sycamores
(so-called), one of which is the ﬁnest we saw in the country. It had
a deewin round it, where the old people might sit and smoke. while
the young sing and dance.‘ The governor’s house is partly of burnt
brick,—quite a token of grandeur here. The other houses were of
mud, as usual ;—clean and decent. The cemetery shows signs of care,
- —some low walls, ornamented at the coping, surrounding some of the
graves, and pebbles being neatly strewn over others. The roads were
ankle-deep in dust. The palm-groves, with the evening light shining
in among the stems, were a luxury to the eye. The people looked
clean and open-faced. Some of them were very light; and these were
probably descended from Sultan Selim’s Bosnians, like many of the fair-
complexione’d people in the neighborhood of the sultan’s garrisons. Many
articles were offered for sale,—the people hastening to spread their
mats in the dusty road,and the women holding out their necklaces and
bracelets. One woman asked ﬁve piastres for her necklace; and she
would have had them: but seeing this, she suddenly raised her de-
mand to twenty. She is probably wearing that necklace at this mo-
ment. The gentlemen bought mate for our tents here, giving nine
piastres (13. 83 d.) apiece for them.

The temple of Dirr interested us much from the novelty of its area
and portico being in the open air, when the rest of the temple is in
the rock. I may observe too that this was the only temple we saw in
Nubia which stood on the eastern bank—The area once had eight
pillars, the bases only of which remain; and of its war pictures nothing
is visible but faint traces. I made out only a chariot wheel, and a few

