442 unsure me.

interesting historical personage to those who follow the footsteps of
Jesus and the Apostles through Samaria.

Simon was half a Jew, of the class of the Speculatists, and the per-
son who, bringing the doctrines of the East into connection with those
of the Jewish sects, founded, not directly and purposely, but by the
spread of his tenets, the schools of the Gnostics. to which may be
traced many of the corruptions with which Christianityis overlaid to
this day. When the apostles visited Samaria, they found Simon in
great power and activity. His Samaritan hearers listened eagerly to
his attacks upon the great prophets of the Jews ;—even upon Moses
himself. They exalted his miracles, told of his power of raising the
dead, and, as Eusebius says, regarded him with great reverence, as one
come from God. They had, as yet, hardly heard of the Prophet of
Nazareth; and it appears, from the account in the Acts, that Simon
would willingly have joined the Nazarene community, but for the
cause of alienation which arose. He appears to have been an earnest
mam—an enthusiast in the use of his own powers of healing, and in
the practice of his arts of magic; and he formed the low conception of
Christianity which appears in his offer to Peter to purchase the com-
munication of the powers which he saw exercised by the disciples.
We must remember that there was reality at the bottom of the practice
of Magical arts in the East; and that Simon, like other eastern sages
and prophets, held his arts of healing and divination as scientiﬁc secrets.
He was willing to pay for accessions to his knowledge; and his sin-
cerity is proved, not only by this offer, but by his consternation when
he found how his offer was reprobated as gross impiety. “ Then an-
swered Simon and said, Pray ye to the Lord for me, that none of these
things which ye have spoken come upon me.”' When the Christian
disciples heaped shame and accusation upon him, he resumed his
former positio‘n and ofﬁce, and preached his own doctrine, in opposi-
tion to theirs; and by nothing has Christianity suﬁ'ered more; for the
‘ learning and high gifts of Simon Magus gave him a hold upon minds
of no mean order, in which the two doctrines became to a great extent
united,—grievonsly to the degradation, of course, of Christianity.

Simon adopted the belief prevalent among the Egyptians, the specu-
lative Jews, and the nations east of them, that the Divine Idea of the
Universe,—sometimes called Wisdomd‘ sometimes the Word, some-
times the Creative Power, is manifested to men in human form.
Among the triads and trinities of the heathen world, this Intelligence
or Wisdom was the female member,—the Isis of Egypt, the Mother
Bundle of Simon Magus. This second person of the triad was called
the Virgin of God, and the Spouse of God; and when the female titles
were put away,—as when Osiris was the personage in question, the
titles were “ the ﬁrst-born of God,”—“ the only Son of God,” “the
universal Man,” and many othersdl: The third function of the Triad
was fulﬁlled by the Operative Power which was the necessary conse-

' Acts VIII. 24. _ 1* Proverbs VIII. 22—31.
I Salvador, “ Jésus Christ et sa Doctrine," I. 199, 200.

 

