64 mm“ 1.1“.

one to speak: and the word they tried it with was “baksheesh.” I
saw a little fellow just able to carry his father's slippers,—which were
almost as big as himself :—his father gave him a careful training in
hugging the slippers with one arm, while he held out the other hand to
me for baksheesh. The people here were very good looking. They
cannot grow provisions enough for their nu mbers,——the desert encroach-
ing too much to permit the cultivation of more land than the mere
river banks: but they import enough for their wants. Their renowned
dates are their principal article of exchange; and traffic goes on here
in henneh, baskets, senna, charcoal and slaves from Upper Ethiopia
and Abyssinia. Of course, it was impossible to learn their numbers.
Nobody knows ; and if any one knew, he would not tell. A census may '
be, and has been ordered; but it cannot be executed. The popular
dread of the government renders it impossible. The fellahs (peasants)
have such a terror of increased taxation and of the conscription, that
they abscond on the mention of a census; and some who can afford
it .bribe the oﬂicials to suppress their names, and those of their fami-
lies. The last thing that can be learned of any Egyptian town or
district is its p0pulation.

The walls-of the streets are blank here ;—not a window, or break of
any kind, but a low door here and there. The bazaars looked poor;
and I believe the trafﬁc is chieﬂy carried on elsewhere. We saw two
slave-bazaars. One was an inclosure on the rising ground above our
boat. The slaves here were only ﬁve or six, and all children ;—all
under sixteen years of age. They were intelligent and cheerful-look-
ing; and I recognized, at the ﬁrst glance, the likeness to the old Egyp-
tian countenance and costume. The girls had their faces uncovered;
and their hair in the Ethiopian fashion,—-precisely that which we see
in the old sculptures and paintings. One little girl was preparing the
pottage for their supper, very cleverly and earnestly. She was said to
be ﬁfteen; and 161. was the sum asked for her. The other bazaar
was on the outskirts of the town, and near our boat. It contained,
when we saw it on our return, a dozen boys, and about ﬁfteen girls.
Most of the girls were grinding millet between two stones, or knead-'-
ing and baking cakes. They were freshly oiled, in good plight, and
very intelligent-looking, for the most part. Some of them were really
pretty in their way,--in the old Egyptian way. They appeared cheer-
ful, and at home in their business; and there can scarcely be a stronger
contrast than between this slave-market and those I had seen in the
United States. The contrast is as strong as between the serfdom of
the Egyptian, and the freedom of the American inhabitants of the
respective countries: and of course, the ﬁrst aspect of slavery is inﬁ-
nitely less repulsive in Egypt than in America. What I learned, and
may have to tell, of the life of the modern Egyptians proves, however,
that the institution is no more defensible here than elsewhere.

I saw a little girl on the shore making cord, for tying round the
waists of the men; and was extremely surprised to observe that the

rocess is the same as that of bobbin-making with the lyre by English
dies. Instead of an ivory lyre, this child had two crossed sticks;

