arm“ mun. 206

perplex one’s thought as to what has been done. to them :—as smooth
as if some dexterous dragoman had sawn through the precious shaft,
to indulge his employer with a new toy. The pillars which remain
are often very beautiful. In the southern caves, they consist of the
stems of four water plants, springing from a lar e, solid, circular base,
and bound together below the capital, which is ormed of four lobes of
lotus buds.-—The polygonal pillars which I have mentioned as being
truly Doric have simply a lowly abacus between the shaft and the
architrave.

The tombs throughout are not sculptured, except the hieroglyphic
inscriptions, but painted on plaster. In many places the laster seems
to have been purposely broken or scraped away,—so ha is the mate-
rial, and so vivid the painting, in the corners that are left. This ruin
was probably wrought by the Christians, who have elsewhere cut their
crosses deep into the very ﬁgures on the walls.—Considering the earl
times, the colors here are various. I found a bri ht scarlet,—I thin
for theﬁrst time. The women are yellow skinne throughout. There
are multitudes of pairs of wrestlers in what are called the military pic-
tures; and these pairs are of a darker and lighter red, so as to show
distinctly the intertwining of the lithe limbs. The birds, which are
very various, rejoice throughout in a prodigiously gay plumage.

I will not indulge myself, and weary my readers, with going over the
nine tombs which we found remarkable and full of interest. lwill only
just ask those who read to bear in mind the antiquity of these paintings,
while I mention a few particulars of them.

We have here the art of writing as a familiar practice, in the scribes
whoare numbering the stores on every hand. There are ships which
would look handsome ’in Southampton Water, any sunny day. There
are glass-blowers who might be from Newcastle, but for their dress and
complexion. There are ﬂax-dressers, spinners, weavers,—and a pro-
dustion of cloth which an English manufacturer would study with in-
terest. There are potters, painters, carpenters and statuaries. There
is a doctor attending a patient; and a herdsman physicking cattle. The
hunters employ arrows, spears and the lasso. The lasso is as evident
as on the Pampas at this day.-—There is the Nile full of ﬁsh, and a
hippOpotamus among the ooze. There is the bastinado for the men;
and the ﬂogging of a seated woman. Nothing is more extraordinary
than the gymnastics and other games of the women. Their various
games of ball are excellent.—-The great men are attended by dwarfs
and buﬂ'oons, as in a much later age; and it is clear that bodily inﬁrmity
was treated with contempt ;—deformed and decrepit personages ap-
pearing in the discharge of the meanest oﬂices.—-It was an age when
this might be looked for; and when war would be the most prominent
occupation, and wrestling the prevailing sport; and probably also the
discipline of the soldiery: and when hunting, ﬁshing and fowling .
would be very important pursuits. But them—what a power of re-
presentation of these things is here! and what luxury co-existing with
those early pursuits! Here are harpers with their harps of seven strings;
and garments and boat-sails with elegant patterns and borders, where,

