THE HAREEI. 263

The time was passed in attempts to have conversation by signs; at-
tempts which are fruitless among people of the different ideas which be
long to different races. How much they made out about us, we do
not know: but they inquired into the mutual relationships of the party,
and put the extraordinary questions which are always put to ladies who
visit the hareems.-—A young lady of my acquatntance, of the age of
eighteen, but looking younger, went with her mother to a hareem in
Cairo (not the one I have been describing), and excited great amaze-
ment when obliged to confess that she had not either children or a hus-
band. One of the wives threw her arms about her, entreated her to
Stay for ever, said she should have any husband she liked, but particu-
larly recommended her own, saying that she was sure he would soon
wish for another wife,.and she had so much rather it should be my
young friend, who would amuse her continually, than anybody else
that she could not be so fond of., Everywhere they pitied us Euro-
pean women heartily, that we had to go about traveling, and appearing
in the streets without being properly taken care of,—that is, watched.
They think us strangely neglected in being left so free, and boast of
their spy system and imprisonment as tokens of the value in which
they are held.

The mourning worn by the lady who went with us was the subjeCt
of much speculation: and many questions were asked about her home
and family. To appease the curiosity about her home, she gave her
card. As I anticipated, this did not answer. It was the great puzzle
of the whole interview. At ﬁrst the poor lady thought it was to do her
head good: then, she ﬁdgeted about it, in the evident fear of omitting
some observance; but at last, she understood that she was to keep it.
When we had taken our departure, however, an eunuch was sent after
us to inquire of the dragoman what “the letter” was which our com-
panion had given to the lady.

The difﬁculty 18 to get away, when one is visiting a hareem. The
poor ladies cannot conceive of one’ 3 having anything to do , and the
only reason they can understand for the interview coming to an end is
the arrival of sunset, after which it would, they think, be improper for
any woman to be abroad. And the amusement to them of such a visit
is so great that they protract it to the utmost, even in such a case as
ours to-day, when all intercourse was conducted by dumb show. It is
certainly very tiresome; and the only wonder is that the hostesses can
like it. To sit hour after hour on the deewin, without any exchange
of ideas, having our clothes examined, and being plied with successive
cups of coffee and sherbet, and pipes, and being gazed at by a half-cir-
cle of girls 1n brocade and shawls, and made to sit down again as soon
as one attempts to rise, is as wearisome an experience as one meets .
with in foreign lands.—The weariness of heart is, however, the worst
part of it. I noted all the faces well during our constrained stay ; and
I saw no trace of mind in any one except in the homely one-eyed old
lady. All the younger ones were dull, soulless, brutish, or peevish.
How should it be otherwise, when the only idea of their whole lives 1s
that which, with all our interests and engagements, we consider too

