mm. 79

house,——the walls mud, and narrowing upwards, so as to give the
building a slightly pyramidal form. Mud walls, it must be remembered, “
are in Nubia quite a different aﬂ'air from what they are in rainy coun-
tries. The smooth plastering gives the dwelling a neat appearance,
inside and out: and it is so ﬁrmly done, and so secure from wet in that
climate, as not to crumble away, or, apparently, to give out dust, as it
would with us.—'I‘he ﬂat roof of this house was neatly made of palm:
the stems lying along, and the fronds forming a sort of thatch. A
deewan of mud was raised along the whole of both the side walls; and
two large jars, not of the same size, were ﬁxed at the end; one, no
doubt, to hold water; the other, grain. The large jar for grain is often
ﬁxed outside the house, opposite the door: and we were assured that
it is never plundered. Some dwellings have partitions, one or two feet
high, separating, as we sup ose, the sleeping-places of the family. If
the peasant has the rare ortuue of possessing a cow and calf, or if
there is an ex in the establishment,.to work the sakia, there is a mud
shed, with a flat roof like the house. The fences are of dry millet
stalks, which rise from eleven to fourteen feet high. In the garden or
ﬁeld plot is often seen a pillar of stones, whereon stands the slinger,
whose business it is to scare away the birds from the craps. The
ﬁeld plot is often no more than a portion of the sloping river bank. At
the season of our visit the plots were full of wheat, barley and lupins.
The kidney bean, with a purple blossom and very dark leaves, was
beautiful: and so were the castor oil and cotton plants.

Behind the dwelling which we visited, the dark stony desert came
down to the very path: and among its scattered rocks lay, not at once
distinguishable to the eye, the primitive burying ground of the region.
The graves were marked out with ovals of stones; and thorns were
laid thick on the more recent ones. A dreary place it looked for the
dead to lie in: but the view from it was beautiful ; and especially of
the hedge-like Lybian bank over the 'river, where the fringe of mimosas
was all overgrown and compacted with bindweed of the brightest green.

I do not at present see that much can be done for the N ubians, as
there certainly may for the Egyptians. In Egypt, the population once
amounhd to 8,000,000, or nearly so; while now it is supposed to be
not more than 2,600,000: and there seems no reason why it should
not, with the knowledge and skill of our own time, rise to what it once
was, and exceed it. Everywhere there are tokens, even to the care-
less eye of a passing traveler, of land let out of cultivation,—yielded up
without a struggle to the great old enemy, the Desert; and even to the
encroachments of the friendly Nile. There are signs that drainage is
as much wanted as irrigation. However much the natural face of the
country may be supposed to have changed, there is abundant evidence
of wilful and careless lapse. In Nubia it is far otherwise. There, not
only are the villages diminutive,—almost too small to be called ham-
lets,—and the sprinkling of peeple between them is so scanty as barely
to entitle the country to be called inhabited, but this is clearly from the
scarcity of cultivable land. That it was always so is hardly conceiv-
able when we think of the number of temples still visible between the

