ass ass-nu ms.

to be conversant with Greek writings. and with such strangers from
that country as occasionally visited Jerusalem. It was they who car-
ried some Greek elements into the deliberations of the Sanhedrim,
where they were the most powerful party in the time of Christ, and
into the administration of the priestly oﬁce; for Caiaphas and Ananias,
high priests, were Sadducees. Though they were more primitive
Mosaists than the Pharisees, they were not more acceptable to Jesus.
Their aristocratic tendencies, their skepticism and pride of intellect,
and their corrupting doctrine of free-will, were all diametrically opposed
to the views and aspirations of one who came to oﬂ'er his glad tidings
to the poor,—to give rest to the souls of the weary and heavy laden,—
and to teach that not a sparrow falls to the ground without the ordina-
tion of God ;—of one, in short, whose sympathies were with the re-
maining seen—the Essenes.

It is impossible to enter philos0phically in any degree into the mind
of Christ, without considering how large an element of his thought
was the life and doctrine of the Essence. When we read of them in
Josephus and Philo, we see reﬂected back as in a mirror the life of the
gospel, or, at least, the idea of that life which was held by the early
Christians. The Sermon on the Mount might be taken as one long
blessing on the Essenes,——the non-resistants, the abjurers of property,
the humble, the mortiﬁed, the industrious, the charitable! The lead-
ing object—the central purpose—of the Essenes was that of fulﬁlling
the Moral Ideal of the Law. While the Pharisees were allegorizing,
and heaping traditions upon the original structure of the Mosaic sys-
tem, and the Sadducees were rigidly preserving and adhering to the
simplicity of that structure, the Essence gave their whole mind to the
ascertainment and realization of its moral import. There is no doubt
that they added much to the meaning of Moses, and saw many moral
principles and practices in his system which he never put there: and it
is clear that their additions were derived from Egypt and Greece. There
was a close afﬁnity between them and the Pythagoreans who resorted to
Egypt in great numbers, when their schools in Europe were broken
up. The Essene communities in Egypt and Palestine, between which
a brotherly intercourse was always going on, were mainly Pythagorean
in their discipline, and in their mysteries; and so remarkably Chris-
tian in their moral doctrine and practices, that it was long supposed
that Philo, giving an account of the Egyptian Essenes, was a Christian
giving an account of a Christian community. There is no question,
however, of their prosperous existence for some centuries before the
birth of Christ. Their societies undoubtedly formed the model of the
ﬁrst Christian communities, and of subsequent monastic associations.
They held their goods in common, forbidding a man to have two
cloaks or two stat-es, and not allowing him to be in want of one.
They were in the strictest sense N ecessarians, going far beyond the
Pharisees in this particular, and not being exceeded by the Moham-
medans themselves. They believed that the hairs of men’s heads were
all numbered, and that every moment of their thoughts was determined
by an immutable providence. They held that men are truly and prac-

