308 names mu.

millions of people when they left Egypt, and that the “ forty years"
and “ forty days ” assigned to a variety of transactions, is not to be taken
literally, nor was ever meant to be so: and they are aware that it is in
vain to ﬁx upon any particular mountain peak as that from which the
Law was given.

It is quite another question which was the sacred mountain in the
belief of early times. In regard to this there is abundance of evidence.
It is clear that Serbal and Sinai were both sacred mountains, and
objects of pilgrimage from a very early age; The traveler cannot but
see this on the spot: and if he is further disposed to occupy himself
with the speculation which of the mountains of the region was in the
mind of the writers of Exodus, he will do as travelers have hitherto
done,—-ﬁx upon the peak which in his view answers the most nearly
to the points of the narrative. Of the ﬂaw travelers who have been
there, the greater number have pointed out some fresh spot which struck
their fancy, in the absence of all evidence as to which the writers had
in vicw.—If I were to do this, it would not be Serbal that Ishould
ﬁx upon; because there is, as I said, no space within view of its peaks
and ridge whence any large number could ﬁx their gaze on any one
suitable point of the mountain. Yet it is clear that, for some reason or
other, Serbal was largely resorted to by devotees and pilgrims. and
probably through many ages ;-—as was also Sinai.-—Many inscriptions
are found on the rocks near the summit of Serbal; and there is a road
up to its peak. In Wadee Feiran the rocks are dotted with caves,—
the abodes and tombs of ancient anchorites and devotees. What traces
of sanctity remain about Sinai, we shall presently see.

We wandered on in the valley for about a mile beyond the spot I
mentioned as aﬂ'ording a ﬁne view of the pinnacles of Serbal; and
then we took up our rest in a truly delicious nook. Serbal was almost
overhead, and other mountains enclosed us round. 0n the slope be-
hind us were the remains of the ancient town known to have existed
here; and at its base ran a little streamlet in a messy channel, over-
hung with tamarisks and palms. Caves yawned in all the precipices
round; and soon, when the large moon rose, the whole was like a rich
dream,—-except for the voices and laughter of a party of our Arabs
round a great ﬁre, which gleamed upon the high screen of tamarisks
which sheltered them from the night breeze.

In the morning I was out in time to see some of the stars go down
behind the mountain peaks, and others fade in the dawn. It was so
warm here that I put of my cloak while at breakfast in the open air
before sunrise. B six o’clock Iwas walking forwards, wishing to
examine some of t e caves. Those to whichI climbed were mere
cells, rude and unshapen; just answering to one’s childish notions of
an anchorite’s cell. Some had as many as four chambers, I was told;
but none that Ivisited had more than two. Iobserved a seat appa-
rently cut into the rock on the margin of the tunnel, where it spreads
into a brook; and I wondered who planted it there; for it was too con-
venient and pleasant to have been done with the good-will of ancho-
rites.-Then I walked through palm-groves. and in and out among

