268 nmxn urn.

classes of Englishmen so much to know exactly what Mr. Lane is
about at Cairo, that I certainly ought to tell, as far as I am capable,
how I found him occupied.

Everybody knows Mr. Lane’s reputation for Arabic scholarship;
but too few know the generosity with which he has devoted himself
to the interests of scholarship, to the injury of his private fortunes,
and the sacriﬁce, for some years, of home and country. We are,
happily, never without examples of generosity before our eyes ;—the
generosity of men of honor, the generosity of the poor, and of the
philanthropic; and men of science and literature have never been
behind others in sacriﬁcing their means, whether of money, time, health,
or domestic ease, to the cause of knowledge and human improvement.
Among these public benefactors is Mr. Lane; and I wish the nature
and extent of his labors and sacriﬁces were better known than they
are. One gentleman has shown his sense of the public obligations to
Mr. Lane ;-has shown that sense in the best possible way ;—by aiding
Mr. Lane’s object. The present Duke of N orthumberland, when Lord
Prudhoe, saw at once that Mr. Lane’s object was one of vast im-
portance, and that no time must be lost in accomplishing it; and he
acted accordingly. It is owing to him that the work has advanced so
far as that we may hope for its completion in, I believe, two years.

It is well known to oriental scholars that no good Arabic Lexicon
exists: and perhaps none but men of learning can fully understand
how important it is to the world that it should have a good Arabic
Lexicon; but it is evident enough to ordinary people that it is of con-
sequence to our knowledge of history and ancient literature to have
as good a key as can be found to the treasures of Arabic literature.
There are, in the Mosques of Cairo, materials essential to the forma-
tion of a perfect Lexicon which can be had nowhere else; these MSS.
are crumbling to pieces so fast that, if not used now, they will be lost
for ever; and Mr. Lane is the only competent man who has access
to these materials. He saw the importance of the object, felt the
pressure of the time, knew that he was the man for the work, and
therefore devoted himself to it, in a generous negligence of his personal
interests. He gave up a good literary income in London, the comforts
of an English home, and the society of family and friends, and went
to live at Cairo, working, to the injury of his health, at an unremune-
rative labor which he well knew the world would be slow to appreciate.
And there he toils, day by day, with his sheikh, poring over the old
MSS., which can scarcely be touched without falling to pieces. And
there he must toil for two years more, till his work is ﬁnished.—-And
what next? How will our Universities, and the Government, and the
India Company show that they understand the boon which Mr. Lane
has conferred upon them? The common notion of welcoming a book
is, taking a single copy; or ﬁve, or ten copies. Is this what will be
done in the case of this rare book, which it is certain the public will
never buy? One of the European powers understands the matter
better than this ;—understands too that tokens of appreciation should
be given so timely as that they may cheer the toils of the laborer, and

