874 names urn.

Italy or England, may rise to high honors and great wealth ; bntif any
native born Egyptian can improve his rank and fortunes, I, never heard
of such; and it is certain that the people generally have no other view,
no further hope, than obtaining bare necessaries from season to season;
and I might say, in regard to too many, from day to day.

And now, what are we to think of the boasted public works of Egypt!
By all means let them proceed, if they aid production and transit. For
as much as the are good in themselves, let them proceed. But let it
he remembers that public works in Egypt do not arise from a ﬁrm
foundation of national industry, and that the people who work at them
are virtually slaves. The case is just the reverse of that of the public
works of Ancient Egypt. The old Pharaohs, natives of the Nile
Valley, raised their mighty palaces and temples by the hands of the
captives they brought into slavery from foreign lands. Now we see
the Opposite case of a Greek ruler, his throne surrounded by foreigners,
raising the monuments of his reign by the hands of the enslaved nation
whom he calls his subjects. Those who can may choose between the
two cases for preference. In each case, there is much vain—glory in
the enterprise, and much barbarism in the way of carrying it out. The
old Pharaoh thought to honor his gods, according to the morality of
his time, and made no pretence of beneﬁting his slave-laborers. The
modern Pasha does homage to the morality of his time by professing
to aim at the good of his people; but he outrages every right and every
interest of the many thousands who are driven to work at his patriotic
enterprises. As we have seen, redth part of the whole

resent population of the can out of 2,500,000) were

illed off in six months, in the making or the Mahmoudieh canal.
After such an experiment as this, the prosecution of other public works
by laborers no better ﬁtted and prepared to achieve and desire them,
a pears to those on the spot a barbarism equal to any that can be
oliarged upon any heathen temple-builder of them all.

As for other laboring classes than the cultivators,-—the boatmen are,
I am told, the most fortunate, and therefore the most intelligent and
prudent. They are sure of the money they earn, and are exempt from
the extortion which mine the fortunes, and breaks the spirit of other
classes of laborers. As for the insecurity and extortion, almost all the
working classes seem as badly off as the cultivator. Everybody has
heard of Ihraheem Pasha’s ﬁne garden at Roda. The laborers in that
garden are paid nominally a piastre and a quarter per day. Out of
this, they have to feed themselves. This they might possibly do, if
they really received the money: but they are paid in corn, or some
other produce which it is convenient so to dispose of; and this produce
is reckoned at a price higher than they can obtain for it.

At the Sugar-reﬁnery, near this garden of Ihraheem Pasha’s, the
people are paid with molasses, in a similar manner;. and, in addition,
they have to bribe the measurer of the molasses to give them due mea-
sure,—it being an understood thing that he will help himself out of
either their purses or their molasses.

While on the subject of the Pasha’s public works, it should be

