80 amaze me.

almost invariably found the manners of the Arabs to be; and there was
even an unusual degree of the oriental dignity in his bearing.

The boat was so clean that there was no occasion for us to wait for
the usual process of sinking,-—to drown vermin. The few additions
and alterations necessary could easily be made while we were buyin
our stores; and, in fact, we were off in ﬁve days. Our deck aﬂ'ordeg
a walk of twelve paces, when the crew were not rowing: and this
spacious deck was covered with an awning. The ﬁrst cabin was quite
a saloon. It had a continuous row of windows, and a deewin along
each side; on the broadest of which the gentlemen’s beds were made
up at night. We had bookshelves put up here; and there was ample
closet accommodation,-for medicines, pickles, tools, paper and string,
8w. In the inner cabin, the narrow deewins were widened by a sort
of shelf put up to contain the bedding of Mrs. Y. and myself. The
ﬂoor and ceiling were painted blue, orange and green, and the many
windows had Venetian blinds. It was a truly comfortable chamber,
which we inhabited with perfect satisfaction for many weeks.

The bargain made, the gentlemen and Alee were much engaged
every day in laying in stores. Matresses and spices, wine and
crockery, macearoni, camp-stools, biscuits, candles, a table, fruit,
sponges, saucepans, soap, cordage, tea and sugar ;—-here are a few
items of the multitude that had to be attended to. Every morning, the
gentlemen were 06‘ early to the stores; and the time they gave to sight-
seeing with Mrs. Y. and me was accepted as a great favor. Active as
we thought them, it was an amusement to us to see that it was possible
to be more active still. A young Scotchman who was at our hotel,
with a sister and two friends, was always before us, however early we
might be, and obtained the ﬁrst choice of everything, from the dahabieh
herself to the smallest article she. carried. And all this activity and
shrewdness lay under a pale young face, a quiet voice and languid
manner, betokening poor health, if not low spirits. On the night of
our arrival at Cairo, we did not go to bed till past midnight; and our
gentlemen were out at ﬁve to see about the dahabieh,—knowing that
the competition for boats was then very keen: but the Scotchman had
been out at four, and had seen and declined the dahabiehbefore my
friends reached Boolik. Whenever we bought any 1article, we found
that our Scotch neighbor had had his choice before us. We seldom went
into 0 store where we obtained almost everything but he was sitting
there, tasting wines or preserves, or handling utensils, as if he had been
a furniture-manger all his life. It was presently apparent that he was
bent on getting off before ns,—-on obtaining a good start up the river;
and it is not to be denied that this roused the combativeness of some
of our party; and that our preparations were pressed forward with
some view to the question whether the English or Scotch party would
get the start. The expectation was that the Scotch would sail on
Tuesday, December 1st, and an American party on the same day;
while we could not get off till the Wednesday morning, though taking
up our abode on board our dahabieh on the Tuesday evening. We
were advised to do this, that we might not depart unfurnished with

