328 . um“ Lin.

nobler and dearer relation of Father and Child. Virtue here was, nob
rectitude, but obedience. Sin was, not corrupt thought, but failure of
allegiance to the Divine King. The Commandments, therefore,-—even
the ﬁrst ten, which are moral and not merely ritual like the second,
relate only to political or social virtue, leaving it to Christianity to
work out the nobler object of personal holiness. Such degree of self-
government as is necessary for social virtue is of course supposed and
required; but merely such as is indispensable. for the gland of society
and the honor of its Divine Ruler, and not that thoroug interior puri-
ﬁcation and discipline which Christianity offers to every man with no
political view, but for his own sake. Our own Hooker seems to have
described the scope of the ﬁrst and higher set of Commandments, when
he says."I “A politic use of religion there is. Men fearing God are
thereby a good deal more effectually than by positive laws restrained
from doing evil; inasmuch as these laws have no further power than
over our outward actions only: whereas unto men’s inward cogitations,
unto the privy intents and motions of their hearts, religion serveth for
a bridle. What more savage, wild and cruel than Man, if he see him-
self able, either by fraud to overreach, or by power to overbear, the laws
whereunto he should be subject? Wherefore in so great boldness to
offend, it behoveth that the world should be held in awe, not by a vain
surmise, but a true apprehension of somewhat, which no man may
think himself able to withstand. This is the Politic Use of Religion.”
Even this politic use was found to be of too high a character for the
Hebrews as yet. When Moses came down from the Mount with the
tables of the Moral Law in his hands,—carne down perhaps by some
one of the rocky chasms which I was exploring this Sunday at Sinai,
—-and looked towards the plain whichl gazed on this day, he saw,
not a people awaiting in awe the pleasure of their Divine King, but a
crowd rejoicing in having possessed themselves of a god who would
protect them back to Egypt ;—back to the sweet Nile waters, and the
merry feasts of idols. . Instead of the cheerful response he looked for,
as before, “ and all the peeple answered together, and said, ‘All that
the Lord hath spoken, we will do,’ ” he heard the sound of shouts and
singing as the people danced about their golden Apia. Then Moses
not only destroyed the idol, but the tables of the Law ;—“ brake them
beneath the Mount ;” and after a long and terrible conﬂict, surrendered
his highest hopes for the peOple, and pursued a lower aim.—He gave
them a ritual, Egyptian in its forms and seasons and associations, but
with Jehovah alone for its object. The multitude were in fact inca-
pable of receiving a faith without forms, as children are incapable of
receiving abstract ideas but by means of illustrations: and they would
have gone back to Egypt on the ﬁrst disappointment or pretence, if
Moses had not brought as much of Egypt as he could into the Desert
to them.—He had all the requisite knowledge of Egyptian worship
and ways. He had at his command, among the “ mixed multitude,”
Egyptian artiﬁcers ; besides that many of the Hebrews themselves were

0 metastases Polity, Book v. sec. 2.

