no: mass m mm. 847

the guide,) and can testify to the practicable character of this entrance,
as I did not alight till we reached the platform above the water-course.

Petra might be said to begin from that ﬁrst excavation. For nearly
an hour longer we were descending the pass, seeing ﬁrst. hints at fa-
cades, and then, more and more holes clearly artiﬁcial. Now red pop-
pies and scarlet anemones and wild oats began to show themselves in
corners where there was a deposit of earth; yet the rocks became
more and more wild and stupendous, while, wherever they presented a
face, there were pediments and pilasters, and ranges of door-ways, and
little ﬂi hts of steps scattered over the slopes. A pair of eagles spran
out, an sailed over head, scared by the noise of the stran ers; and
little birds ﬂew abroad from their holes, sprinkling their smal shadows
over the sunny precipices. Nothing gave me such an idea of the vast-
ness of the scale of everything here as those little birds and their sha-
dows. What a life it must have been,—that of the men of old who
gathered their comforts about them in such homes as these, and led their
daily course among these streets and areas of Nature’s making, where
the echoes, still busy as ever, mingled the voices of men with the
scream of the eagle and the gush of the torrent! What a mixture of
wild romance with the daily life of a city! It was now like Jinnee
land; and it seemed as if men were too small ever to have lived here.
Down we went, and still down, among new wonders, long after I had
begun to feel that this far transcended allIhad ever imagined. On the
right hand now stood a column, standing alone among the ruins of
many, while on the left were yet more portals in the precipice, so high
up that it was inconceivable how they were ever reached. The longer
we stayed, and the more mountain temples we climbed to, the more I felt
that the inhabitants, among their other peculiarities, must have been
winged. At length, we came down upon the platform above the bed
of the torrent, near which stands the only ediﬁce in Petra.

This platform was sheltered on two sides by rocks; and as my eye
became accustomed to the confusion, I could make out, among the
masses of building stones which lay between it and the empty water-
course below, the lines of ﬁve terraces, and, at last, the piers of many
bridges. This platform was thickly grown over with some plant of
the lily kind ;—we think, the red amaryllis, which must richly adorn
the area when in blossom. Our servants pitched our tents here, in
opposition to the Sheikh, who would have had us take up our abode
in the caves, to save the expense of watchers. We much preferred,
however, the cleanliness and airiness of our tents, and the lily carpet
which pushed its leaves under their curtains, and stretched under our
beds. The ﬁrst thing Alee showed us was a scorpion, which he
brought with the tongs from our tent,—a hideous, yellow, venomous-
looking creature, about two inches long. Two more were found in
another tent.

We were seriously desired not to move a step from our platform
without guards and companions; and we had quite enough to look at
for the present in the faces of the extrordinary precipices which walled
us in. I spread my cloak on a rocky shelf, where I could quietly

