252 imam am.

posed to conclude that the poorer classes, whom the curse of polygamy
scarcely reaches, must be in favorable circumstances in regard to health,
—judging from the prevalence of muscular strength, of ﬁne teeth, and
of beauty of form and face. Among the richer classes, where a viler
polygamy prevails than in almost any country of the world, it is far
otherwise. '

We were so fortunate as to witness a much more imposing festival
than that of the birth of the Prophet:—the return of the Mahhmil.

On the morning of Sunday, the 14th of January, the news ﬂew
through the city of the return of the Pilgrims from Mekkeh. This
pilgrimage is always subject to so many hardships and dangers, so
many lives and fortunes are concerned in it, and there is such an ab-
sence of news from the departure of the caravan till its return, that its
re-appearance is always an occasion of great excitement: and this year
the excitement was unusually strong, from the cholera having committed
great ravages among the pilgrims. As soon as this fact was made known
in the city by the ﬁrst comers, early that Sunday morning, crowds
poured out to meet the caravan ;—crowds of people, each one of whom
was in suspense about the life of some relation or friend. We were
told by friends who happened to witness this meeting, that it was a
very touching sight; and that the joy of some, and the dreadful wailing
of others, were indeed quite overpowering. The report in the city
throughout the day was that eight thousand out of thirty thousand had
perished; but this was a great exaggeration, as we soon found. The
caravan consisted of seventy thousand in the whole—Cairo, that is,
Egypt, sending out about thirty thousand of these. One-tenth of the
whole, seven thousand, were carried off by cholera.

We rode, in the afternoon, to the encampment outside the walls.
There was not much to see, the pilgrims having naturally entered the
city and gone home, instead of waiting to join the procession of the
next morning. Out of the two thousand camels of the morning, we
saw only about one hundred and ﬁfty. The tents were to the last de-
gree shabby and sordid-looking; and so were the machines—the cano-
pied-boxes—in which some of the women and children were carried on
the backs of camels: but one likes to see the shabbiness which tells of
the reality of such a pilgrimage. A governor of the expedition is ap-
pointed yearly: and here the governor with his attendants was sitting
in his tawdry and faded green tent, smoking, and permitting the gaze of
all who came. We saw how the beasts of the caravan are tethered at
night, and observed a few groups of the pilgrims, eating Or lounging, or
tending their children ; and that was all.

Accounts differed as to the time when the procession was to enter,
the next morning. Ales had hired for us a shap-front in the Turkish
bazaar; and there we were seated, by seven o’clock,l think, on a car-
pet, at the level of the people's shoulders ;—in as good a place as could
be had. While there, no insult whatever was offered us; and our pre-
sence seemed to excite very little notice, except among those who
wanted baksheesh. Afterwards, when we were riding after the Mahh-
mil to the citadel, and when the press of the crowd made the act a safe

