rm: NILE. 41

was ever punished on our account: certainly never by our desire.
They were always manageable by kindness and mirth. They served
us with heartiness, and did us no injury whatever. The only point
we could not carry was inducing them to sing softly. No threats of
refusing baksheesh availed. Mr. E. obtained some success on a sin-
gle occasion by chucking dry bread into the throats of one or two who
were quavering with shut eyes, and wide-open jaws. This joke
availed for the moment, more than any threats; but the truth is, they
can no more refrain from the full use of their lungs when at work, than
from that of eyes and ears.

0n the evening of Monday the 7th. we approached Asyoot: and
beautiful was the approach. After arriving in bright sunshine, ap-
parently at its very skirts, and counting its fourteen minarets, and ad-
miring its position at the foot of what seemed the last hill of the range,
we were carried far away by a bend of the river;—saw boats, and
groups of people and cattle, and noble palm and acacia woods on the
opposite bank, and did not anchor till starlight under E1 Hamra, the
village which is the port of Asyoot. .

We were sorry to lose the advantage of the fair wind which had
sprung up: but it was here that the crew had to bake their bread for
the remainder of the voyage up. We had no reason to regret our de-
tention, occasioning, as it did, our ﬁrst real view of the interior of the
country—Asyoot is a post town too; and we were glad of this last
certain opportunity of writing home before going quite into the wilds.

 

CHAPTER IV.

ASYOOT.—-OLD SITES—SOME ELEMENTS OF EGYPTIAN THOUGHT.—
FIRST CROCODILES.—SOOHA DJ .—GIRG EH.—KENN EH.

IN the morning, our canvas was down, along the landward side of
our boats; so that the people on shore could not pry. It was plea-
sant, however, to play the spy upon them. There were many don-
keys, and gay groups of their owners, just above the boat. On the
one hand, were a company of men washing clothes in the river under
a picturesque old wall: and on the other, boat-builders diligently at
work on the shore. The Arab artisans appear to work well. The
hammers of these boat-builders were going all day; and the tinman,
shoemakers, and others whom I observed in the bazaars, appeared
dexterous and industrious.

Asyootis the residence of the Governor of Upper Egypt. Selim
Pasha held this ofﬁce as' we went up the river. While we were com-
ing down, he was deposed ;-—to the great regret of all whom we heard
speak of it. He was so well thought of that there was every hope of
his reinstatement. Selim Pasha is he who married his sister, and
made the terrible discovery while at supper on his wedding-day, in his
ﬁrst interview with his bride. Both were Circassian slaves; and he

