mum common or never. 273

to improve under'such arrangements as the following'1—The cultivator
undertakes to till a certain quantity of land,—all the land, it is under.
stood, being the Pasha's pro perty, except such as he pensions or gratiﬁes
certain parties with. Some, I am aware, declare that private property
in land,of a much older date than the Pasha’s life, does exist to a great
extent. Others, whom I think higher authority, say there is little or
none, though the title deeds of a large quantity are hidden away, in
hope of better times.—And, by the way, what a telling fact it is that
there should be any doubt about such a point as this among’ well-in-
formed men on the spot l—At all events, whether the land is the Pasha’s
or another’s, the cultivator engages, in return for being furnished with
all that is needful for its cultivation, to hand over a stipulated amount
(not proportion) of the produce, after harvest. He receives, among
other requisites, an order for a good and sufﬁcient quantity of seed-w
corn from the government granary.—When he presents the order, the
great ofﬁcial gentleman at the granary directs a subordinate oﬂicer to
supply the applicant with three-quarters of the speciﬁed quantity, he
retaining the other quarter for his own fee. The second oﬂicer sub-
tracts a second quarter; and the cultivator sows his land with half the
proper seed. Of course, when it comes up thin, he considers what
he shall do. The probability is that at harvest time, he will go out
in the night, and ﬁlch from his neighbors’ ﬁelds, while those neighbors
may be in his ﬁelds, doing the like. When the day of reckoning
comes, one or more of the neighbors (it may be remembered that some
of my party saw eight), may be chained and led off to be bastinadoed
for nonpayment of dues; Or. as some other friends of mine saw, the
Pasha may send a force to seize the land of a whole district, because ,
some 0f . the cultivators maybe unable, or be supposed to be unable,
to pay their rent.—Whil'e such is the state of things, and in the absence
of any promise of improvement, the stranger does not see how manu-V
factures should grow out of the agriculture of Egypt, or an increasing
population out of either. Nor is it easy to suppose that any cir-
cumstances which may lie out of the stranger’s sight can neutralize
such facts as these.

The state of affairs; does not seem to be mended by the Pasha’s
practice of giving away his villages,—which is the same thing as
giving away the people who inhabit them. When,~for instance, it is
inconvenient to pay to any claimant or favorite ﬁve hundred purses a
year, the Pasha will give half the money and ﬁve or six villages.
Then, of course, the uncertainty of the peasant’s lot at best is aggra-
vated by new liabilities: he depends on the temper, fortunes and
business habits of his new proprietor, while he is not relieved from
the corruption of the agents with whom he has to deal. The mischief
of the Middleman system exists everywhere, whoever he the proprie-
tor; and while the proprietor may make matters worse than the ave-
rage, he can hardly lighten the evils of such a system, in any one
village.—As might be expected, no such spectacle is ever seen as a
native bettering his condition, or attempting to do so. A foreigner,
whether he be a slave from Circassia, or a man of science from France,

18

