470 nurses nu.

ever, had a copious spring, and a good growth of ﬁgs :-—and we came
out upon a little Greek church :—the most sordid church, I think,l
ever saw. We waited outside for the key,—still in entire ignorance
of where we were. Close by the church-door grew several pomgn-
hate-trees, two of which were covered with magniﬁcent blossoms. An
old woman came with the key, and led us up to a stone shaft, breast-
high, with an irregular hollow at the top, which made it remmblea
clumsy, unﬁnished font. This was the only remaining water-pot,“
were told, which had held the wine at a marriage feast here; for thin
was Cans of Galilee. I need not say that this was no water-pot. Dr.
Robinson questions this being the real Cana: but tradition is in favor
of this site; and there is no evident reason against the ordinary belief.
I was glad to have been here; and I brought away two pomegranate
blossoms, as memorials of the place.

We were as sure now as we could feel at Jerusalem of our being on
the tracks of the Teacher. Everywhere about the lake, he traveled
and taught; and we might, anywhere here, look round as with me
certainty of seeing what he saw. A mountain near our road to-day.
about ﬁve hours,I think, from Nazareth, called by the natives the
Horns of Hottein, is named by the Christians the Mount of the Beati-
tudes, from the tradition that here Jesus delivered the Sermon on the
Mount. With those who believe that that body of holy instructions
was delivered on several occasions, and therefore most probably in
different places, this tradition will have no weight: nor has it, I believe.
with any but the local guides. It is an oblong hill, green and fertile
on its eastern side, and with two eminences at one end of its ridge.—
from which it derives its native name. If Jesus did not sit there to
teach, he probably reclined there, as on all the hills near, in the course
of his way-faring, to look abroad: and from hence he could see fab
He could see over the Plain of Jezreel, which was, to every Jew. 00
full of recollections, at once religious and historical. He could over-
look the Lake of Galilee, and follow with his eye the ﬁshing-boats
where were some whom he designed to make ﬁshers of men. He
could see on the shores, and in the recesses of the hills, and at the
opening of the Plain of Gennesareth to the north, the cities over whose
hard worldliness he mourned, conceiving of them as lost, like Tyre
and Sidon over to the west, and Sodom and Gomorrah to the south-
Here were all his haunts in this district, in his view at once :—-Motlﬂl
Tabor near at hand: and below, the shore of the lake, the boats, 0“
pernaum and Bethsaida, and the solitudes to which he withdrew him:
self for contemplation and prayer,—for rest to his soul. And here he
could meditate how yet more strongly, yet more clearly and incessant]?
he could convey to his followers and the multitude his warnings again“
the husky religion of the Pharisees, and his blessings on the pure. 11'?
sincere, the devoted, the peaceable, and the humble spirit. of which 1'
was hard for the pupils of the Scribes and Pharisees to conceive. An
unlike, indeed, was his method of teaching to theirs. “ He taught 3’
one having authority, and not as the Scribes.” The people were 36'
customed to book-language, to legal terms, of admonitions about rittl

 

 

