1'78 smart am.

Thus much before the scaling up of the tomb. What afterwards?

As he had passed the external judgment, he was believed by the
mourners without to be assured of re-union, in his immortal edsence,
with the Supreme, from whom all being emanates. The family have
likened him, in the preparation of his body, to Osiris, and have painted
the emblems of Osiris on his envelop; and will henceforth call him
by that sacred name. The oﬂ'erings they bring, and will continue to
bring occasionally, are not consecrated to their mortal comrade, but to
the portion of divinity which dwelt in him—They place behind their
altar of oﬂ'erings the images of Isis and Nepthys, the First and the
Last: and believe that the First and the Last attend at the head and
feet of the body, as long as it remains in the tomb.‘I They think of
him as ﬁnding his way in the untried regions which they yet seem to
themselves to know so familiarly. He leaves behind him the eulogy
which is inscribed on the entrance wall of his tomb, and is met by
Thoth, the Conductor of the dead, by whom he is fetched away, and
led on to a more fearful judgment than that man’s judgment by the
shore of the lake which he has passed with honor. He is announced,
according to his legend, thus: “Arrival of a soul in Amenti.” His
secret faults, and his sins of omission, of which men could be no judges,
are now to come under review: and Thoth, whose legend‘l' declares
him “the Secretary of Justice of the other great gods,” is to produce
his book, in which he has recorded the whole moral life of the soul
come to judgment.-—The forty-two heavenly assessors are believed to
represent the forty-two sins which the Egyptians believed man to be
subject to. Each searched the newly-arrived soul, and declared its
condition in respect to the particular sin.1 Then came the trial of the
balance. The symbol of the actions of the candidate are placed in
one scale, and the s mbol of integrity in the other. Thoth looks on,
ready to record. orus holds the hand of the candidate; and the
dog§ watches the process, ready to turn on the condemned if his scale
should be “found wanting.” If all is well, he advances in front of the
balance, and ﬁnds the infant Horus seated on his lotus-blossom before
the throne; and on the throne is the Judge, prepared to welcome him
by raising the end of his sceptre, and to permit him to enter among the
ads within. Of the happy state little was revealed, because, as it was
cclared, “ the heart of man could not conceive of it.” Almost the
only particular declared was that there was a tree of Life," on whose
fruit the gods wrote the names of mortals destined to immortality, and
whose fruit made those who ate of it to be as gods. His relatives
thought of him as wearing on his head, as a mark of his justiﬁcation,

’ Wilkinson’s Ancient Egyptians, V. 416.

‘I’ Champollion, Lettres sur l’Egypte.

I Mischief. Blasphemy. Idleness. Stealing divine goods. Lying. Libertinism.
Impurity. Skepticism (“ head-shaking at the words of truth.”) long-speechifying.
Need for remorse. Gluttony.—Here are some of the forty-two sins read 06' by
Champollion from the Legends. Lettres sur l’Egpte.

S If any one wishes to know the name of the Egyptian Cerberus, I can indulge
him with it,—citing Champollion. The name is Tedudm-enement.

I The Person.

