tom son. 3615-

ascending Mount Hor. Dr. Robinson was not permitted to attempt it.
Captains Irby and Mangles went up, by a path needlessly difﬁcult, it
appears; and they came down the same way; thus missing the very
remarkable objects on the western side of the mountain.

Captain Mangles says of the ascent, “ We began to mount the track,
which is extremely steep and toilsome, and affords but an indifferent
footing. In most places, the pilgrim must pick his way as he can, and
frequently on-his hands and knees. At the steepest points there are
ﬂights.of rude steps, or inclined planes, constructed on stones laid
together; and here and there are notches cut in the rock, to receive
the foot. The impressions of .pilgrims’ feet are scratched in the rock
in many places; but without inscriptions.” Though we went up the
same side of the mountain. we must have been led by a different path,
for I remember nothing of going on hands and knees ; and my journal
says of the ascent, “It Is easy,—as rocky ascents usually are, mount-
ing from platform to platform by stones and water-courses. There
were many signs of the late rain, and the wild- ﬂowers were fresh and
pretty. Mr. W. found a red tulip. From the highest platform below
the summit, we saw, niched In the precipitous opposite mountain, the
facade of El Deir: and extraordinary it looked! I could not but think
of old Aaron, coming up here to die, and wondering what'his thoughts
were and, those of his companions.” I have always thought that little
narrative“ eminently beautiful. It is so brief, so simple, so full of calm,
penitent obedience!

The Mohammedans make a great saint of Aaron. They have built
his tomb on the summit of this mountain; and the place has been
visited in pilgrimage for centuries, and by multitudes. Times are
much changed now, as I thought when I stood on the summit; for
these bigots have so far surrendered their horror at Christians as to
permit us to see everything here for 20 piastres a head ,-—the excuse
for the charge being that it was to pay for candles.

' Just below the summit, some of the party found a fragment of a
column, and some bits of marble. Within the tomb,—which is a
square building, with a cupolarising from the middle of the roof,-—
we found a piece of handsome pavement of inlaid marble : and more
fragments, some wrought and some plain, were mixed .in with the
rough ﬂooring. Two very small carved capitals were lying on the
ground, and three pieces of the shaft of a column composed three steps
of the outside ﬂight which led to the roof. Unfortunately we had no
interpreter with us to obtain information from the old keepers of the
tomb as to whence these things came, the dragoman being with our
friends and goods below. The most mysterious thing In the tomb was
a round, polished black stone (which, however, one of the gentlemen
believed to be a lump of glass), ﬁxed in the wall, and, judging by the
mark on the wall round it, kissed by multitudes of devotees. -—In the
chamber stands a sarcophagus of stone and marble, carved, on the end
next the door, with an Arabic inscription, which had once been on a

