80 ass-rm me.

ﬁrst and second cataracts, and the many villages declared by Pliny to
have studded both shores: but that it is to be helped now,I do not see
how any one can show who has beh’eld the hopeless-yellow desert,
with its black volcanic rocks, coming down to the very river. As the
people have no raw material for any manufacture, it is not easy to tell
how they could prosper by other kinds of industry, if Egypt supplied
them ever so plentifully with food. It appeared to us that they were
diligent and careful in making the most of what they have. As soon
as we crossed their frontier, we saw the piers which they make,—the
stone barriers built out into the stream to arrest the mud as it is carried
down, and thus obtain new land. There are so many of these as to
be mischievous in some parts; as, when these piers are opposite to each
other, they alter the currents, and narrow the river.—We saw dusky
laborers on the banks, toiling with the hoe, to form the soil into ter-
races and ledges, so as to make the most of it. From their diligence,
it seems as if the Nubians had suﬂicient security to induce them to
work: and their appearance is that of health, cheerfulness and content.
What more can be done for them, beyond perhaps improving their
simple arts of life, it is diﬁcnlt to say.

Simple enough, indeed, are their arts. Early one morning, when
walking ashore, I came upon a loom which would excite the astonish-
ment of my former fellow-townsmen, the Norwich weavers. A little
pit was dug in the earth under a palm ;--a pit just big enough to hold
the treadles and the feet of the weaver, who sits on the end of the pit.
The beam was made of a slender palm stem, ﬁxed into two blocks.
The treadles were made of spines of the palm ﬁxed into bits of
stick. The shuttle was,I think, a forked twig. The cotton yarn was
even, and the fabric good; that is evenly, woven. It was, though
coarse, so thin that one might see the light through: but that was in-
tended, and only appropriate to the climate. I might have wondered
at such a fabric proceeding from such an apparatus, if I had not remem-
bered the muslins of India, produced in looms as rude as this. It ap-
pears too, from the paintings in the tombs, that the old Egyptian looms
were of nearly as simple a construction, though the people were cele-
brated for their exports of ﬁne linen and woolen stuﬁ‘s. The stout-
looking gay checkered sails of the boats, and the diversiﬁed dressesvof
the peOple represented in the tombs, were no doubt the produce of the
rude looms painted up beside them. The baskets made by the Nu-
bians are strong and good. Their mats are neat; but neither so ser-
viceable nor so pretty as those of India: but then these people have
not such material as the Hindoos. Their rope making is a pretty
sight ;—-prettier even than an English ropewalk; though that is a treat
to the eye. We often saw men thus employed,—one end of their
strands being tied to the top of a tall palm, while they stood at the
other, throwing the strands round till they would twist no more.

As for the rent paid by the Nubians for their land,—what we learned
is this: but it must be observed that it is very diﬁcult, in these coun-
tries, to obtain reliable information. In the most civilized parts, there
are so few data, and in the more primitive, the people are so little in

