240 nan“ am.

of these were reduced in the same proportion as the mat weavers; or
in a greater.

“Fowls failed altogether, except a few which were brought. from
Syria. [have heard that an inhabitant of Egypt, seeing himself re-
duced to indigence, was, as it were, inspired by God to buy a hen,
which he caused to be brought from Syria, and for which he paid sixty
pieces of gold. He sold it again at Cairo, for eight hundred. pieces of
gold, to the people whose businessis to rear fowls. When the eggs
appeared, they were bought for a piece of silver each :—-afterwards,
two, three, and then four eggs might be had for that money; and this
was the price which was sustained. A chicken sold for a hundred
pieces of silver; and the price remained for a long time as high as a
piece of gold, and more.—The ovens were heated with the wood taken
from empty mansions. Those who had ovens bought a mansion for a
very low price, and used the partitions and the rafters, which served
them for a time to beat their ovens: when this resource was exhaust-
ed, they bou ht another mansion. There were some among them who,
regarding on y the baseness of their feelings, got into the houses in the
night, and took their provision of wood, without meeting anybody who
could oppose their thievery.—It often happened that a mansion con-
tinued empty, nobody remaining there but the proprietor: and for want
of ﬁnding any one who would purchase it, he himself took the joists,
the doors and all the furniture, which he sold: and then be abandoned
the dismantled lace. The same was done with houses which were
hired.—As for e vill round Cairo, and in the provinces, they are
now merely a fearful so itude. One may travel for several days toge-
ther, and in all directions, without meeting a si la living creature :—
nothing but corpses—A great mortality and pestilence happened again
in the Faioum, in the uprovince of Garbiy eh, and at Damietta and
Alexandria. It was at s time of sowing that this scourge was at the
worst; and there were instances where many laborers perished suc-
cessively at the same plough. It was related to me how the cultivators
who sowed the seed were not those who had prepared the land : and
that again, it was a different set who gathered the harvest.—I m self
saw the sowing done for one of the principal lords: he sent peop e to
do it: then, having found that they were all dead, he sent others: and
the greater part of these died also. This happened over and over
again, in various districts.—-Persons who may be relied on informed
me that at Alexandria, on one single Friday, the Imaum had uttered
the funeral prayers over seven hundred bodies: and that the same in-
heritance had passed to fourteen heirs in succession in the course of a
month: and also that above twenty thousand inhabitants of that city had
left it, had retired to the province of Barks, had established themselves
there, and had rendered that re ion ﬂourishing.”

0n the 20th of May, “there ppened a violent earthquake, which
ﬁlled every one with terror. Every one leaped from his bed, and ot-
tered cries of supplication to the all-powerful God. The movement
remained a lon time; the shocks were like the motion of a sieve or
riddle, or like t which a bird makes in flapping its wings. There

