154 ass-mart urn.

these people have taken more ﬁsh and geese than they want at present;
and here we see them salting them. From what we saw ourselves just
now, there must have been a good deal of salt produced in the neigh-
borhood: and if not enough for everybody, more was brought down
the river by the traders from Ethiopia, where we know salt was brought.
from the east for sale.

Here is a wine-press :—no wonder! for we are coming presently to
the picture of a banquet. We know that the kings and the priests
were much restricted in the use of wine : but the sculptures and paint-
in show that there was much wine-bibbing among gentlemen and
la ies generally. Every landed proprietor seems to have had his wine-
press; as far as this kind of evidence goes: and the sick and tipsy
guests at banquets are really a scandal to those old times. By the way,
those who had wine-presses must have had lands extending backwards to
the skirts of the hills; for vines will not grow in the rich Nile mud nor
bear being laid under water for months at a time. The great valley must
have been skirted with vineyards in those old times. Besides all that they.
grew, we know that they imported wine largely, as soon as they could
get it. One way and another,—as medicine, or with their food, or at
their ban nets, they certainly disposed of a great deal. And here are
a group 0 servants, treading the grapes very energetically.

What a splendid affair this boat is, with its hand of rowers, and its
pavilion, with door and two windows ;-— uite a house !—and the gay
sail, all checkered with bri ht colors! ow well these people wove
and dyed in those days! his sail is bulging, as if in a strong wind,
which implies that it is stout as well as gay. What is this wheel. on
the roof of the pavilion, and under the corner of the sail? For a long
time I believed that this was part of the tackle; and [made a drawing
of it for future inquiry. From Sir G. Wilkinson I learn“l that I did
not use my eyes well, or I might have seen that this is the wheel of a
chariot, which is placed there for conveyance. I might have disco-
vered this by the horses, whose heads appear in my sketch, in front of
the pavilion. This other boat, rowing the contrar way, makes all
clear. Here the sail and mast are down; and the c ariot on the roof
is unmistakeable; besides that the horses stand on the deck. The
rudder is in shape an enormous paddle, swung on a pivot by a little man
standing at the stern. How eager the pilot looks, making gestures
from his place at the bow! These capacious and handsome boats,—
vessels of a higher order than such as are represented among the chat-
tels of ordinary landed proprietors,—make me hope that this is indeed
the tomb of the old Egyptian admiral, which Champollion studied so
successfully at Eliethyia. His tablet tells that he was “Chef des nau-
tonniers” in the reign of Thothmes 1.; that he served in the earlier
time of Amosis, and did battle to great purpose while he commanded
on the water: and also that he was himself named Amosis.'l If this
be indeed Amosis, he returned from his exploits on the water to a life
of great plenty and some merriment on the shore.

' Wilkinson’s Ancient Egyptians, III. 197. 1' Lettres sur l‘Egypte.

