260 mantis use.

father’s displeasure, and was, in fact, a prisoner in her own house.
While her father did not visit her, no one else could: and while she
Was secluded, her younger sister could not receive visitors: and thus,
their hareems were closed .—The one which I saw was that of a gentle-
man of high rank , and as good a specimen as could be seen. The
misfortune was that there was a mistake about the presence of an
interpreter. A lady was to have met us who spoke Italian or French:

but she did not arrive; and the morning therefore passed 1n dumb show ,
and we could not repeat our visit on a subsequent day, as we were in-
vited to do. We lamented this much at the time: but our subsequent
experience of what is to be learned in a hareem with the aid of an in-
telligent and kind interpretess convinced us that we had nOt lost much.

Before I‘ went abroad, more than one sensible friend had warned me
to leave behind as many prejudices as possible; and especially on this
subject, on which the prejudices of Europeans are the strongest. I
was reminded of the wide extent, both of time and space, in which
Polygamy had existed; and that openness of mind was as necessary
to the accurate observation of this institution as of every other. I had
really taken this advice to heart: I‘had been struck by the view taken
by Mr. Milnes in his beautiful poem of “the Hareem ;” and I am sure
I did meet this subject with every desire to investigate the ideas and
general feelings involved 1n it. I learned a very great deal about the
working of the institution, and I believe [apprehend the thoughts and
feelings of the persons’ concerned 1n it: and I declare that if we are
to look for a hell upon earth, it is where polygamy exists : and that as
polygamy runs riot in Egypt, Egypt 13 the lowest depth of this hell.
I always before believed that every arrangement and prevalent practice
had some one fair side,—some one redeeming quality: and diligently
did I look for this fair side 1n regard to polygamy: but there is none.
The longer one studies the subject, and the deeper one penetrates into
it,-—the more is one’ s mind confounded with the intricacy of 1ts iniquity,
and the more does one’ 5 heart feel as if it would break.

Ishall say but little of what I know. If there were the slightest
chance of doing any good, I would speak out at all hazards ;—I would
meet all the danger, and endure all the disgust. But there 19 no reach-
ing the minds of any who live under the accursed system. It is a
system which belongs to a totally different region of ideas from ours;
and there is nothing to appeal to in the minds of those who, knowing
the facts of the institution, can endure it; and at home, no one needs
appealing to and convincing. Any plea for liberality that we meet at
home proceeds from some poetical fancy, or some laudable desire for
impartiality 1n the absence of knowledge of the facts. Such pleas are
not Operative enough to render it worth while to shock and sadden
many hearts by statements which no one should be required needlessly
to endure. I will tell only something of what I saw , and butlittle of
what I thought and know.

At ten o ’clock, one morning, Mrs. Y. and I were home from our
early ride, and dressed for our visit to a hareem of a high order. I‘he
lady to whose kindness we mainly owed this opportunity, accompanied

