26 names mm.

the want of due pnparation for such a work in such a country.
Without tools and sufﬁcient food, the poor creatures brought here by
compulsion to work died oﬁ' rapidly under fatigue and famine. Before
the improvements of the pasha are vaunted in European periodicals as
putting European enterprises to shame, it might be as well to ascertain
their cost,-—-in other things as well as money ;—the taxes of pain and
death, as well as of piastres, which are levied to pay for the pasha’s
public works. There must be some ground for the horror which
impels a whole population to such practices as are every day seen in
Egypt, to keep out of the reach and the ken of government :— ractices
such as putting out an eye, pulling out the teeth necessary or biting
cartridges, and cutting .06 a foreﬁnger, to incapacitate men for army
service. The fear of every other sort of conscription, besides that for
the supply of the army,- is no less urgent; and it is a common practice
for parents to incapacitate their children for reading and writing b

putting out an eye, and cutting off the foreﬁnger of the right han .
Any misfortune is to be encountered rather than that of entering the
pasha’s army, the pasha’s manufactories, the pasha’s schools. This
can hardly be all baseless folly on the part of the peeple. If ques-
tioned, they could at least point to the twenty-three thousand deaths
vcvhich took place in six months, in the making of the Mahmoudieh

anal.

The pasha is proud of this canal, as men usually are of achieve-
ments for which they have paid extravagantly. And he still brings
his despotic will to bear upon it, in deﬁance of nature and circumstance.
I was told to-day of his transmission of Lord Hardinge by it, when
Lord Hardinge and everybody else believed the canal to be impassable
from want of water. This want of water was duly represented to the
pasha: but as he still declared that Lord Hardinge should go by that
way and no meaner one, Lord Hardinge had only to wait and see how
it would be managed. He went on board the steamer at Alexandria,
and proceeded some way, when a bar of dry ground appeared extend-
ing across the canal. But this little inconvenience was to be no impe-
diment. A thousand soldiers appeared on the banks, who waded to
the steamer, and fairly shouldered it, with all its passengers, and car-
ried it over the bar. The same thing happened at the next dry place,
and the next: and thus the pasha is able to say that he forwarded Lord
Hardinge by his own steamer on his own great canal.

Nothing can be more dreary than the scenery till within a short dis-
tance of Atfeh. The ﬁeld of Aboukeer was nothing but hillocky
desert, with pools in the hollows: and after that, we saw little but
brown mud banks, till we came to the acacias near Atfeh. It is a
pity that other parts of the canal banks are not planted in the same
way. Besides the beauty of the trees,—to-day very pretty, with the
light pods contrasting with the dark foliage,——the shade for man and
beast, and the binding of the soil by vegetation would be valuable.

It was dusk before we reached Atfeh. Some moonlight mingled
with the twilight, and with the yellow gleams which came from sordid
windows, seen through the rigging of a crowd of small vessels. There

