murmur. 153

as any ploughing in Greece could ever have been. What a waste of
seed this sower is making,-—unless that cataract of seed is a ﬂourish of
the artists! He seems to throw more from his hand than any hand can
hold,—or even the basket from which he takes his supply. If it has
been “ a od Nile” this year, here will be corn for export, after every
one is we I fed at home.-—Ah! we shall soon see that: for here, in the
second line of paintings, we are carried on to the harvest. The crops
seem certainl very vigorous. This tallest growth is millet, of course:
the next, bar ey; the shortest, wheat. They cut the wheat-ears of?
short with a sickle very like ours: but they pull up the millet by the
roots. There is a woman uprooting it now. Probably they use the
stalks for fencing, thatchin , or bedding the cattle, as the country people
do at this day. What is t at man doing with the roots of the plucked
millet? Is he knocking off the earth from them? That is a neat sheaf
that his comrade is tying; and the man who is carrying another seems
to ﬁnd it large and heavy, as indeed it looks. That instrument, with
teeth like a com-b, seems to work cleverly in stripping off the grain from
the stalk.-—It is only the millet that is so treated ; for here, in the third
line, is the threshing-ﬂoor, with the oxen treading out the wheat. The
driver is singing; and here is actually his song, written up beside his

picture :—-* ‘ ‘ '

“ Thresh for yourselves, 0 oxen! Thresh for yourselves.

Thresh for yourselves, O oxen! Thresh for yourselves.

Measures for yourselves! Measures for your masters.
Measures for yourselves! Measures for your masters.”

This is the song this driver was singing while Moses was a child.—
The wheat is swept up, and delivered to the winnowers; who are
making showers in the air with the falling wheat. And here it is
carried to the place where the scribe is ready to see it measured and
deposited in the granary.

These scribes look like very stiff writers. How formally they hold
the tablet, supporting the left arm on the bent knee! and how hard they
seem to be hearing on the style, as if it were steel, and they were en-
graving! But this is only a bit of energy put in by the artist; for the
style was only a reed pen; and it made its marks with colored inks.—
But here are several scribes, taking account of many things besides the
grain which is brought home. These bags that they are causing to be
weighed before them, are money bags. his must be a very rich man.
Here are gold rings too ;-_-—the ancient form of currency.—And here is
the live stock: cattle, asses, pigs, goats: what an array !-—And the
gentleman was a sportsman too, I suppose; or, at least, chose to have
his table well supplied; for here are game, and geese, and ﬁsh. Pro-
bably, the Nile left him plenty of ﬁsh within his embankments, when
the waters retired: or he might keep ﬁsh-ponds stocked; as it appears
some people did. The old Egyptians must have been very fond of
fowling, judging by the number and variety of nets, and the multitude
of ﬂuttering birds which we see among the domestic pictures—Ah!

' Champollion. Lettres sur l‘Egypte, 11th and 12th letters.

