106 ram“ un.

particulars concerning them. The most important, however, in the
state appears to have been that of the caste of Priests. The monarch
must be of that class. If a member of the next (the military) caste was
made king, he must ﬁrst become a priest.‘—Herodotus says that
Egyptian society was composed of seven castes; Plato says six :1’
Diodorus Siculus says ﬁve.i The classiﬁcation of Herodotus is so
strange thatit is clear that he included under his titles some division of
employments which we do not understand. He declares§ the seven
classes to be the Priests, the Military, the Herdsmen, the Swineherds,
the Tradesmen, the Interpreters, and the Pilots and Seamen. The
classiﬁcation of Diodorus will help us better. He gives us the Priests,
the Military, the Husbandmen, the Tradesmen and Artiﬁcers, and, low-
est of all, the Shepherds; and with them the Poulterers, Fishermen
and Servants. The division indicates much of the national mind, as I
need not point out. We must remember, throughout our study of the
monuments, that the priests were not occupied with religion alone.
They had possession besides of the departments of politics, law, medi-
cine, science and philosophy. It is curious to speculate on what must
have been the division of employments among them, when we read in
Herodotus how they partitioned out their art of medicine,—there being
among them no general practitioners, as we should say, but physicians
of the heart, the lungs, the abdomen; and oculists, dentists, &c.ﬂ If
such a subdivision was followed out through the whole range of study
and practice in all professions, the priestly caste must contain within
itself a sufﬁcient diversity to preserve its enlightenment and magna-
nimity better than we, with our modern view of the tendencies of a
system of castes, might suppose.

I have perhaps said enough of this ancient people to prepare for an
entrance upon the study of their monuments. The other castes, and
a multitude of details of personal and social condition and usage, will
come before us when we turn to the sculptures and pictures. Before
gping on to their successors, we may call to mind the grounds which

erodotus assigns for his fullness of detail about the Pharaohs and
their people. He says, “I shall enlarge further on what concerns
Egypt, because it contains more wonders than any other country ; and
because there is no region besides where one sees so many works
which are admirable and beyond expression.”1l

Beyond expression, indeed, are those great works. And do we not
know that wherever men’s works have a grandeur or beauty beyond
expression, the feeling which suggested and. inspired them is yet more
beyond expression still. 0! how happy should I be if I could arouse
in others by this book, as I experienced it myself from the monuments,
any sense of the depth and solemnity of the loans which were the
foundation of the old Egyptian faith! I did not wait till I went to
Egypt to remember that the faculty of Reverence is inherent in all
men, and that its natural exercise is always to be sympathized with,

‘ Plutarch. do 13. IX. 1' In Timaeo. I Diod. I. 74. § Herod. II. 164.
| Ibid. 84. tr Ibid. 35.

