mun-r mun. 297

the sunshine breakingin among the mountain ﬁssures, while the busy
and noisy camp yet lay in deep shadow below. One by one, the
company would mount and follow, or Mr. W. with his book, and Mr.
E. with his cbibouque, would set forth on foot. In a line. or in pairs
or groups, the camels, with their riders, would step out slowly; and
then the two lively young ladies, Miss K. and Miss 0., would rouse
theirs to a fast trot, and pass us all by.—Wheu the sunshine reached
me, or I had walked enough for the present, I put on my les, pulled
my broad-brimmed hat over my eyes, and signed to my watc ful camel
driver. Then, down went the beast on its knees, and my driver set
his foot on its neck while I sprang on. and settled myself with my stir-
rup and between my cushions, and stowed my comforts about me.
When I had ﬁrm hold of the peg before and the peg behind, the crea-
ture was allowed to rise, and I sustained its three jerks,—two forward
and one backward,—as well as I could.

At eleven o’clock, Abasis rode up with his tin lunch-box, to supply
each of us with bread, cold fowl, or a hard egg, and a precious orange.
Or, as oftener happened, we looked out at that time for some shadow
from a chance shrub, or in a rocky nook, where we might sit down
to luncheon, while the baggage camels went forwards. That we might
not be too far separated, we were not at ﬁrst allowed more than twenty
minutes for this, rest.—It was a pretty sight,—the scattering about of
the company among the patches and nooks of shade.

_After three o’clbck,the sheikh and dragpmen began to look about, to
choose our abiding place for the night. Where the sheikh points, or
stands, or plants his spear, there it is to be. Then, as the camels ar-
rive, they kueel down, and release their riders. This was the time of
day when I found the heat the most oppressive ;—in the half hour be-
tween arriving and taking possession of the tent. Within the tent, too,
'it was often scarcely endurable till after dinner, though we looped up
the sides, to obtain what air could be had. While the tent was pre-
paring, I generally tried to sleep for a few minutes,0n the sand or some
neighboring rock.—It required about half an hour to put up and fur-
nish our tent. It was hard work to rear it, ﬁx the poles, and drive in
the pegs. Then Alec turned over every large stone within it, to dis-
lodge scorpions, or other such enemies. This done, and the ﬂoor a
little smoothed, he brought in the iron bedsteads and bedding, and the
saddle-bags which held our clothes. Next came the mats ;—two pretty
mats, brought from Nubia, which covered the greater part of the ﬂoor.
Then the table was placed in the middle, and four camp stools were
brought; and basins of water, and a pitcher and cup. Mrs. Y. and I
might now dress and refresh ourselves, while Alec and Abasis put up
the other two tents.

Mr. E. was to be envied at this time of day. He was in no hurry
for his tent, for he was engrossed with his journal. He would secure
a campstool, and lay his hand on his inkglass, and write as fast as pos-
sible till all was ready for him to dress; and then again perhaps till
dinner. I could not do this. I was very well satisﬁed with myself if
I wrote my journal after dressing and cbibouque, and before dinner. I

