380 smart am.

but I was sur rised by an impulse of it, on turning the shoulder of the
bill which he hidden Hebron from us. The town looked very pretty,
slaping down in the sun, on the two eminences on which it is built;
but the most conspicuous thing in it is the mmque which covers the
Cave of Machpelah. It was not the thought of this burial- lace of
Abraham, Isaac and Jacob which gave me a momentary ill-wi l to the
Mohammedans. It was the thought of the devout John, who had for a
disciple, for a time, a greater than himself. I was presently ashamed
of the absurd and illiberal emotion; and, as I looked upon the minaret,
felt that the Mohammedans had as much right to build over sacred
places as the Empress Helena: though one must heartily wish they
had all let it alone.—As soon as we thus came in view of the town, we
sat down on the hill side, to rest and refresh ourselves, sending on the
baggage, that our tents might be pitched on the quarantine ground,
south of the town, in readiness for us.

We found our tents pitched on thick short grass, with the tombs of
the Turkish cemetery behind us, and the town in full view in front.
On the green, a company of Turkish soldiers was exercising. They
looked mean,—one might say vulgar, in their European blue uniform:
but the gentlemen said they went through their business very well.

There was time to look about us, before thinking of Hebron; for there
must be a negotiation ﬁrst with the Governor and the Doctor about our
obtaining immediate pratique. While the tiresome dis ute was pro-
ceeding, I sat at the tent door, much amused at the delig t of our ser-
vants in buying fresh bread, oranges, wine, &c., after our long absence
from all markets. The idlers who hung about us were a very hand-
some set of people: and in the town, we were yet more struck with the
beauty of those we passed. There was somethin cheerful in meeting
the women with faces uncovered, after the dark, ismal veiling we had
been accustomed to so long. Among all the Jews we saw, I observed
onl one who had what we call the Jewish cast of countenance. Here,
an at Jerusalem and elsewhere, we saw many Jews with fair com-
plexions, blue eyes, and light hair. Such eyes I never saw, as both
the blue and the brown; soft, large, noble eyes, such as bring tears into
one’s own, one knows not why. The form of the face was usually ﬁne,
and the complexions clear brown or fair :—the hair beautiful. The
drawback was the frequency of scrofulous disease among them, which
I observed particularly at Jerusalem. We went to the synagogue at
Hebron, through the winding alleys of the Jew quarter. The Chief
Rabbi being absent, we could not see the valuable MSS. said to be laid
up here: but we saw one pretty sight, in the beautiful children who
were at school in the synagogue. They were very few,—not more, I
think, than ten or twelve; and the building was small and mean. We
looked into the house of the Chief Rabbi, being invited in by his cheer-
ful hospitable wife, who wished us to stay for coffee. We would not
put her to this trouble: but presently we met her venerable husband;
and he pressed as all to go in and dine !—-a party which would have
ﬁlled his house! He was a gray-bearded, picturesque-looking old man.
Next, we were conducted to a glass-house,—of all odd places to see in

