PRESENT CONDITION or never. 271

Of the Pasha himself I have little or nothing to say. It is a mere
impertinence for a passing traveler to estimate the character of the
man. That will be a study for the future historian; and it ought to
be a wise historian who will hereafter review the life of the man, from
its beginning to its close, estimating his temperament, his position, his
intercourses and his opportunities, so as to decide on his personal
merits —to judge him as a man. It may be easier to estimate his
relation to his people as a matter of fact, apart from the question of
his personal value: but I know of no man in the country who is quali-
ﬂed to do this: and of course no stranger who is anxious not to mislead,
will attempt it. —I never saw the Pasha, except once in his carriage.
He was gone up the river, to look about him and depose Selim Pasha,
when we returned to Cairo. And if it had not been so, we could
merely have seen him by meeting him in the gardens at Shoobra, or
in some such transient way as would have yielded us no real knowledge
about him.—Having thus explained how small were our means of in:
formation, I will bring together here the few fragments I could collect
of knowledge or probability.

One thing is certain: that, in his, endeavors to improve the civiliza-
tion of his people, Mohammed Alee has omitted the ﬁrst step, which
is essential to all substantial advance. He has given them no security
of property or other rights. Moreover, he seems to be unaware that this
security is the only ground of improvement. He appears never to
have learned that national welfare can arise from no other basis than
national industry; and that there can be no reliable national industry
where no man is sure of receiving the rewards of his labor. He ap-
pears not to see that public works, of whatever magnitude and utility, are
merely monumental as long as the people who are to work at them have
to be caught like game, marched to the spot, and kept there by com-
panies of soldiers, and paid at his mere will and pleasure ;—such of
them as are not killed off by his mistakes in the provision of food and
labor-saving tools. He appears never to have considered that schools,
however grand 1n expense, and m their appearance on paper, will not
enlighten the people at large while parents snatch up their children
and hide them, on the mere rumor of the approach of his recruiting
parties, or maim the young creatures in time to prevent their being
chosen for the schools at all. He seems not to see that the love of
knowledge cannot grow among the people while he sets his schooling
before them as an evil for which he gives in compensation money,
maintenance, and the prospect of a handsome provision in life. He
appearsnot to see that his people cannot become orderly tax-paying
subjects while every peasant is liable to ruin whenever his next neighbor
fails to pay his dues. The moment the tax-collector is mentioned,
the inhabitants of a village will ﬂy to the mountains, and hide there,
leaving their cr0ps and oods at the mercy of the government ofﬁcers:
and it does not strike t eir prince that such a ﬂight 15 not a step in
civilization. He appears to forget that the people will not become
more religious while he possesses himself of the endowments of
mosques, promising to keep up their condition, but so neglecting to do

