344 mun.

vantage of the opportunity to walk on for an hour or two, though the
heat was now so excessive that I was warned to cover my head as
carefully as the Arabs do, and to wear a thick white cotton cap under
my hat, during the noon hours. The gentlemen's broad-brimmed gray
hats were covered with white; and they carried handkerchiefs in the
crowns.

To—day we had experience of: the Khamsin. When the heat had
become so intolerable that all moved forward silently in dull patience.
—son1e perhaps with a secret wonder whether they should ever breathe
easily, or feel any muscular strength again,—a strong wind sprang up
suddenly from the south. Though it was as hot as a blast from an
oven, and carried clouds of sand with it, I must say I felt it a great re-
lief. I was aware that the sensation of relief could not last; for the
drying quality of this wind was extraordinary, and immediately felt
upon the skin. Still, the sensations under the evaporation were those
of relief for the moment; and before they were over, we stopped, and
could get under the shelter of our tents. The thirst which this wind
caused was of course great; but we had plenty of water and oranges.
I was surprised, after all I had read, to see how like thick fog an at-
mosphere full of sand can be. The sand was not coarse enough to be
felt pattering upon the face, though it accumulated tn the folds of one' 8
dress. but it ﬁlled the air so completely as to veil the sunshine, and to
hide altogether the western boundary of the wadee, and all before us.
The eastern mountains, near whose base we were traveling, rose dim
and ghostly through this dry hot haze. We were to have proceeded to
Wadee Gharendel, where there is a small spring and a palm or two;
but this wind caused us to halt sooner, for the advantage of a shelter-
ing sandhill.

We passed Wadee Gharendel, the next morning, not more than half
an hour from our resting-place. Its single palm, ugly in itself, looked
well, standing as sentinel at the entrance of the narrow pass.

My camel was insufferable to-day: and I walked many miles, pre-
ferring thirst to having my back broken by my uneasy and uncertain
camel. Since leaving Akaba, we had found our camels more and more
troublesome from their obstinacy in stooping to every twig of tamarisk
and acacia they could get a sight of. Instead of pacing steadily on, as
in the peninsula, they would make a rush at every bush, right or left,
and poke down their heads, every few minutes, to crop something,—
each poke throwing the rider into a very uneasy position- We did not
yet know that our villainous Sheikh had brought no food for either
camels or their drivers. He trusted to our compassion for the feeding
of the men, and to the Desert shrubs for the subsistence of the beasts.
On the second day, the lagging began.—And now, on the third, we
were to have reached Petra in the afternoon: but on both evenings the
Sheikh had stopped early, on some pretence; and so he did this night:
the real cause being that the camels were too weak from hunger to go
through a proper day’s journey. We were not experienced enough
yet, however, to discover all this; and it was a week more before we
became fully aware of Hussein’s iniquity. All I knew at present was

