409 mm.

name of Jehovah. And thus again,a Jew who was of too loﬂyamH
to live in a spirit of fear towards the “Jealous God” of whom hi
lower brethren conceived, might,‘ in his spirit of faith and obediuee.
penetrate through the apparatus of sacriﬁces and a preceptive law, a
as clear a view, and as hearty an allegiance to the Father of all men.
as a Christian could reach in a subsequent age. The polytheisnef
Egypt was a low state of religion for the mass of men ; but it did net.
and could not, preclude the spiritual elevation of individuals. Th
Mosaic Law and ritual were a low stage for the bulk of the Jewﬁ
people, in comparison with what has existed since; but it did not pre-
clude the utmost spiritual loftiness of individual men. The Chrism
religion, corrupted as it has been, has resembled but too much a my-
thology of which Judaism would have been ashamed, and has falla
short of its purpose accordingly,in its operation on the masses of men:
but no one will deny that there have been men belonging to the Church
in its darkest times whom the purest times of Christianity might but
owned. And so on, through all the faiths of mankind. The case be-
ing so, men afﬂict themselves needlessly about one 'another’s safety, at
regards points of spiritual belief. We may and must wish, for tin
sake of men at large, that mankind should conceive of God as a F:-
ther, rather than as a King; as just and merciful, rather than as jealo-tu
and vindictive : but it is not for us to mistrust any human brother, a
suppose that his best powers may not work out his highest good widt-
out his ideas being exactly correspondent with our own. Instead of
this trust, however—a trust which faith. love, and humility alike re
quire—we assume that a belief which differs from our own must bring
forth bad results, be the qualities of the holder what they may : and
then we naturally proceed the one step further, and conclude that those ~
bad results have been brought forth. The Jew would think Socrates
an idolater; as the Athenians believed him, in the worst meaning of
the term, an atheist. The Christian cannot make out the Jew to be
either idolater or atheist; but he imputes to him a constant active hatred
to Jesus, because he still looks for the Messiah to come. The M0-
hammedan, judging of Christianity by what he sees in the Greek and
Latin churches, regards all Christians as idolaters on the one hand, and
inﬁdels on the other. He holds with a well-grounded zeal to the mo-
notheism which he tees to be lost from the Christianity that is before
his eyes; and to the spiritualism of his faith, which excludes a priest-
hood; and by that exclusion, maintains its vital power. The hatred
with which he regards the Christian is as virulent as might be ex-
pected from his imputing to him at once both kinds of error—idolatry
in worshiping three gods and a multitude of saints, and inﬁdelity in
denying the greatest and chief Prophet of God. “These damned
Christian inﬁdels" is the description of all of us who go to the East,
from the Bishop of Jerusalem to the cabin-boy of 'a ship. As imputa-
tion follows prejudice in a natural course, the Jew believes that the
Sun-worshipers of the Lebanon revel in obscene rites, and are in alli-
ance with devils :—the Christian believes that the Jews crucify a child
every Passion-week: and-the Mohammedan believes that the Christian

 

