334 EASTERN urn.

otiate with us on our arrival. Our way was thus open to Akaba, at
Eeast. We should see the eastern gulf of the Red Sea, and look over
upon the mountains of Eastern Arabia,pnd visit the Ezion-geber where
Solomon built his ships for trade with Ophir, and whither our minds
are continually brought in reading of the conﬂicts of the Idummans and
the Hebrews, for centuries after the settlement of the latterin Palestine.
We were really going to Akaba, thou h, as Dr. Robinson observes,’
“Shaw and Niebuhr only heard of A aba; Seetzen and Burckhardt
attempted in vain to reach it; and the ﬁrst Frank who visited it per-
sonally in modern times, was Riippell, in 1822.”

Our route was not that taken by Burckhardt, Laborde, or Dr. Robin-
son. I suppose travelers always prefer their own route to any they
read or hear of: and all these gentlemen may have seen something
which they would pity us for missing: but I own I am sorry to think
that they never saw Wadee-el-Ain and Wadee Weteer. However, we
had not need all go the same road. The more divergence, the better
for the information of those at home.

We left the convent on the morning of the 10th of March, at ten
o’clock,.and traveled till three, when we encamped in a wild place
among shivered rocks. By the middle of the next day, we had left
the granite, and found ourselves among sandstone, red and white. As
I had a rough-paced camel, I walked this morning fourteen miles, in
excessive heat. When we came to heavy sand, at two o'clock, I was
obliged to mount. The heat here was too much for our sociability. At
luncheon, some of the party crowded under the scanty shade of a thin
acacia, whose thorns, strewing the ground, made the resting-place no-
easy enough. One gentleman might be seen crouching alone, with his
luncheon, under an angle of the rock, where there was just shade
enough to thrust his head into. Another lay on a shelf a few feet
above the sand, with a red handkerchief over his head, thus introduc-
ing “ a nice bit of color” into the landscape; while I sat apart, quietly
bearing the sunshine for the sake of a breath of air from the wadee,
and being spared the trouble of speaking. Our encampment was de-
lightful, after this; in a wide water-course, among the most fantastic
rocks of white sandstone, and surrounded by tufts of tamarisk and in-
numerable bushes of ﬂowering white broom. -

On the 11th, our own party were off some time before the rest: but
after an hour’s traveling through deep sand, our guide found himself at
fault amon the fantastic scattered rocks; and we had to wait till the
Sheilth and the rest of the party came up. They dropped into our re-
cess from behind one group of rocks or another, till all were assembled ;
and then Bishara himselfwas not sure of the way. He ran hither and
thither among the slopes, and at last directed us over shelves, and down
steps, and through gullies, and in and out among the glaring rocks,so
that our wonder was, not that he was perplexed about the way, butthat
he could ever ﬁnd it. We now missed the pebbly and rocky tracks
which had hitherto served us almost all the way from Cairo, and found

' Biblical Researches, I. 253.

