108 BABTIRNJJFI.

as round the ceremonial of Egyptian worship, would a Christian be
content to have his faith judged of by a careless traveler of another
race, who should thrust a way among the buried pillars of our cathe-
dral aisles, and look for superstition in every recess, and idolatry in
every chapel; and who, lighting upon some carved fox and goose or
grinning mask, should go home and declare that Christianity was made
up of what was idolatrous, unideal and grotesque! If he is aware
that in our Christianity there is much that will not appear on our ca-
thedrals ﬁve thousand years hence, let him only remember that there
ma be much that is ideal and holy in other faiths whichlwe have not
had" the Opportunity of appreciating. I believe this to be the case with
every faith which, from the ﬁrst appearance of ‘the human race upon
our globe, has met and gratiﬁed the faculty of reverence in any con-
siderable number of men. If I did not believe this with regard to the
religion and philosophy of the ancient Egyptians, I must have looked
at them merely as a wonderful show, and should certainly have visited
them in vain. . _ -

Here, then, we take leave of the Pharaohs and their times; and, we
may say, of their peeple; for the spirit of the old {Egyptians was gone,
and only a lifeless body was left. to —be used as it pleased their con-
querors. We hear of the brilliant reigns of the Ptolemies, who now
succeeded to the Egyptian throne; but theirs was a Greek civilization,
which, though unquestionably derived from Egypt. many centuries
before, was now as essentially different from that of the old Egyptians
as were the characteristics of the two nations. *

We must ever observe that there was no true fusion of the minds of
the two races. The Greeks learned and adopted much from the
Egyptians; but the Egyptians, instead of adopting from the Greeks,
died out. No new god was ever introduced into Egypt; while the
Greeks, after having long before derived many of their gods from
Egypt, now accommodated their deities to those of the Egyptians. and
in an arbitrary and superﬁcial way, adopted the old symbols. There
is every reason to believe that the priests, when employed by the Ptole-
mies to interpret the monuments, ﬁtted their new and compounded
ideas to the old symbols, and thus produced a theology and philosophy
which any resuscitated Pharaoh would have disavowed. The Greeks
took no pains to learn the Egyptian language, or to enter into the old
Egyptian mind; and there is therefore endless confusion in the accounts
they have given to the world of the old gods and the old monarchs of
the Nile valley. To understand anythingof the monuments of the
times we are now entering upon, it will be necessary to bear in mind
that the Ptolemies and Caesars built upon Pharaonic foundations, and
in imitation of “Pharaonic ediﬁces; but necessarily with such an ad-
mixture of Greek and Roman ideas with their Egyptian conceptions as
to cause a complete corruption of ancient art. It is necessary never to
forget this, or we shall be perpetually misled. We may admire the
temples of the Ptolemies and Caesars as much or as little as we please;
but we must remember that they are not Egyptian.

Every country weak enough to need the aid of Greek mercenaries

