150 max urn.

future decipherer of Egyptian records will tell us. At present we
know only that they were held in the great halls of the temples, and
were considered of the utmost importance; so that the title of President
of the Assemblies was one of the highest di ity, offered to the king
alone on earth, and supposed to be enjoyed y the gods in their own
re 'ons.’

e set off aﬁer breakfast, on the morning of the 16th, to see the

t Adfoo temple, walking about a mile through millet patches, stub-
ble and dust. From our deck we had seen what looked like clouds of
smoke rising from the town, and partly obscuring the great propyla.
When we reached the ediﬁce this appearance was explained in a way
which pleased us very much. The people were carrying off the dust
from the area of the temple, to qualif the rich mud of the shore; and
donkeys were passing in and out un er the entrance gate. Men were
loading their asses within the area; and we found the place wonder-
fully improved since our former visit. We could still handle the capi- _
tale of the tallest columns by walking on the sand between them; but
the western colonnade and area wall were cleared almost to their bases.
The external sculptures of the propylon indicate, however, that much
remains to be done; for the captive grou 3, whose heads the victor is
threatening, hardly show their noses above ground. The process
which was going forward of course covered us with dust; but we re-
joiced in it, for the sake of the good done; if only the Arabs do not
ﬁll the court with something worse than even this dust—with such
mud hovels as are stuck all over the roofs, and ruin the outline of this
magniﬁcent temple. The dust was of the less consequence to some of
us that we were destined to be at all events half-choked. The temple
chambers can be reached only by going down a hole like the entrance
to a coal-cellar, and crawling about like crocodiles, on the sand within,
there being barely room, in some places, to squeeze one’s prostrate
body between the dust and the roof, with a huge capital of a pillar on
either hand. The having to carry li hts, under penalty of one’s own
extinction in the noisome air and dariness if they go out, much com-
plicates the diﬁculty ; so that a proper visit to the interior of the Adfoo
temple is really something of an adventure. I could not, under the
circumstances, trace out the disposition of the buildin ; but ﬁve gen-
tlemen, the dragoman and I, penetrated a considerabe way—as far,
indeed, as it was possible to go; traversing, it seemed to me, three
chambers, and ending in one which, from its oblong form, 1 should have
supposed to be a corridor; but which, havin apparently but one door,
must, in that case, have been the adytum. he sculptures were clear
and clean ; but the place was too stiﬂing, with half-a-dozen people and
tallow candles in it, and no fresh air for many years, to admit of more
than a rapid survey. The sculptures exhibited offerings to the gods;
the oﬂ'erers being Ptolemies. The temples at Adfoo were both erected
by successive monarchs of that race; and the interest of this magniﬁ-
cent ediﬁce is, therefore, rather owing to its being, from its durability,

' Wilkinson’s Ancient Egyptians, V. 288.

