I

non ans; To run. 843

after us, to drive us back to the troop.» This added much to the weari-

someness of the journey; and the more because no one of us, I’ rather

think, believed that there really was any danger from foes: and we did

not yet know Hussein well enough to consider that his sins of rapacity

ﬁiiglét be the cause of dangers which we need not otherwise appre-
en .

Hussein, his son, a ﬁne youth of sixteen, and the inferior sheikhs,—of
whom, I think, there were three,—careered about us on pretty, active
little horses ;—or horses which looked small beside the camels. The
sheikhs carried spears ; and were something red or green about their
dress which gave them a distinguished appearance. The escort wore
the true desert head-covering, which our own servants adopted now in
traveling,—the handkerchief carried, not in the form of a turban, but
let down over the head, so that its four corners and fringes shade the
face and neck, or ﬂoat in the wind ;—the handkerchief being bound on
the head with a rope, or a skein of yarn. We had forty armed guards,
independently of the camel drivers. .Ten of them. marched in front,
and ten at a considerable distance on either hand ;—on a rising ground,
when there was any; and always on the look-out. The remaining
ten were with us,—oﬁ' duty. They were of the Alaoueen tribe :-—a
much grander tribe,—much richer in camels and herds,—than that of
our good Bishara. But 0! how much better did we like him, with
his bright face and genial spirit, than the iron~souled great Hussein !—
It was so hot to-day, and we had been so early tired, that we were not
sorry when, at half-past three, Hussein leaped from his horse, and struck
his spearin the ground, as a signal that here we were to encamp.—It
was in a bare and exposed place too, where our tents were pitched too
close together to allow us any feeling of privacy. '

We were now certainly on the track of the Hebrews, and should be for
the greater part, or all of the rest of the way. It was by this wadee that
they came down after being turned back into the wilderness from Ka-
desh, and then refused a passage through Edom. They left Aaron
dead "on Mount Hot, and then came down by this Wadee Araba to the
sea, to get round to the east of Idumaea. More weary than ever must
they have been of the Desert, after having been to the very borders of
the Promised Land, and sent back thence all this weary way into the
waste.

Having seen no one this day, we were permitted rather more liberty
on the next. The sheikhs still galloped about, scouring the sandhills,
and darting hither and thither among the bushes when we wound along
a gully, for the sake of its scraps of shade. I must say, we looked
rather like a company of banditti at such times, creeping along, as if in
hiding under the covert of the shrubs, between the sandhills,—-a swarthy
savage with his matchlock peeping Up, every now and then, to see if
all was clear to the horizon.—-0nce or twice in the day’s ride, the
Sheikh dismounted, and took possession of the best shade; and we
found him, when we came up, enjoying his chibouque, with his son
and attendants standing round him. This was a signal that we were
to await the arrival of the last baggage camel : and I usually took ad-

