06 mm.

hieroglyphic inscriptions, many and deeply carved. In a hollow of the
desert behind us lay the t cemetery, where almost every grave has
its little stone, with a Cumnscription. The red granite was cropping
up everywhere; and promontories and islets of black basalt began to
show themselves in the river. Behind us, at the entrance of the desert,
were the mountainous masses of granite, where we were to-morrow to
look for the celebrated quarries, and their deserted obelisk. Before
we came down from our point of survey, we saw the American party
crossing, in a ferry-boat, to Elephantine. They had arrived after us,
and were to set out, on their return, to Cairo the next day !

As we sat on deck under our awning, this evening, the scene was strik-
ing ;-—the brilliant moonlight resting on the quiet groves, but contend-
ing on the shore with the yellow glow from the west, which gilded the
objects there; and especially the boat-building near the water’s edge;
-—the crews forming picturesque groups, with their singing, clapping
and dancing, while close beside them, and almost among them, were
the Rais and two other men going through their prayers and prostra- '
tions. This boat-building was the last we saw up the river: and a rude
aﬁ'air it was :——the planks not planed, and wide apart, and irregular.

A kandjia was here, which had brought a party of Turkish oﬁcers.
We had the offer of it, to take us to the Second Cataract; our dahabieh
being, of course, too large to ascend the Cataract here. Our gentlemen
thought it would not do ;—that Mrs. Y. and I could not put up with
its accommodations, even for a fortnight. We thought we could: but
we agreed that the ﬁrst thing to be done was to go to the head of the
Cataract, and see what boats could be had there.

The next morning, therefore, we had breakfast early, and set off on
uses for Mahatta,—the village at the head of the Cataract. This, our
ﬁrst ride'in the desert, was full of wonder and delight. It was only
about three miles: but it might have been thirty, from the amount of
novelty'in it. Our thick umbrellas, covered with brown holland, were
a necessary protection against the heat, which would have been almost
intolerable, but for the cool north wind.—I believed before that I had
imagined the Desert: but now I felt that nobody could. No one could
conceive the confusion of piled and scattered rocks, which, even in a
ride of three miles, deprives a stranger of all sense of direction, except
by the heavens. These narrow passes among black rocks, all suﬁ'o-
cation and glare, without shade or relief, are the very home of despair.
The oppression of the sense of sight disturbs the brain, so that the will
of the unhappy wanderer cannot keep his nerves in order. I thought
of poor Hagar here, and seemed to feel her story for the ﬁrst time. I
thought of Scotch shepherds lost in the snow, and of their mild case
in comparison with that of Arab goat-herds lost in the Desert. The
diﬂ'erence is of death by lethargy and death by torture. We were af-
terwards in the depth of Arabia. and lived ﬁve weeks in tents, in the
Desert: but no Arabian scene impressed me more with the character-
istics of the Desert than this ride of three miles from Aswt’tn to Mahatta.
The presence of dragon ﬂies in the Desert surprised me ;—not only
here, but in places afterwards—where there appeared to be no water

$

