513 max m.

lines of the breakers, and presently, a ﬁne juttin headland. and even
its reﬂection in the waters. The abysses of the bacon valleys use
most striking, with their red and gray rocks, not lying in strand:
rising in perpendicular masses, supporting platforms, on which steer
villages, with cypresses for spires. Overlapping mountains, 0mm
der by these abysses, succeeded one another to the coast. Between a
and the highest terraces,—terraces which reached an incredible brig:
—stretched snowy and barren slopes. Beshirai, on an isolated phi:-
form, bristling with cypresses, and showing lines of ﬂat roofs, was E:
below us: and so was Eden on its hill ;—Eden which is perched;
high, that the inhabitants live in it only during the spring and SW
months.—A few steps further, and we saw the Cedars.—-a patch it
dark wood at the base of the slope to our right,—-just below the verge
of thesnow.

There was more snow on this than on the eastern side; and the rat
was ru ed, swam y, and slippery; but I did not find it necessary a
dismougf, and reac ed the cedars dry shod.

These trees have now spread, from being a mere clump, to a m
of considerable extent. They stand on undulating ground—on a new"
of hill and dale which is exceedingly pretty—its grassy and mossy st:L
face shaded b the enormous old trees. and sprinkled all over with the?
seedlings. he priest who lives on the spot pointed out to us the:
trees which are declared to belong to the most ancient generation. d
which devotees would fain make out to have been growing in Solomm's
time. There are nine more which look equally old; that is, as old a
possible. Of these nine, one measured 38 feet ll inches round the
umnk, and one of the three oldest measured 30 feet. It is under th-
last that mass is performed once a year; and its trunk is carvedal
over with names. 'The priest told us that he had lived there. besib
the little chapel, for twelve years, and that no accident had befallet
any of the old trees in his time. The Christians call the trees “Saints?
and when we asked how the Mohammedans regard them—knowing
that they come hither in pilgrimage—we were told that they call then
“god-trees.” Their spread over the slopes is beautiful; and- far down
the declivities, their roots come out so woody and thick as to look like
prostrate trunks. One of the second generation, the nine, is so strangely
out that we inquired the reason, and found that an Abyssinian monk
lived in it for many years, in all weathers; till, at last, a rude hutet'
stones was built for him, which is still standing. The priest brought
us wine, and gave us information very civilly. I would fain have stayed
a day—or a week, if we could—for it is a charming spot; but it was
thought necessary to proceed to Edens—nearly three hours further. on
I rough and hilly read.

The valley which opens about half an hour before Eden is gloriously
beautiful. Wherever we looked there were red precipicea, marvelously
terraced, and white waterfalls. and capricious-green slopes, and streams
rushing in conduits or natural channels; and groves of mulbe and
ﬁg.-abo‘ut the little villages, perched in apparently inaccessible
Eden is aMaronite village, crowded with churches; and the ﬂat M

 

