470 smut! urn.

and at one time there were not fewer than 12,000 at Szaﬂ'ad. While
the place declined, from being often retaken by Christians and Bio-
hammedans, other classes of inhabitants left it, or reduced their num-
bers: but the Jews remained. They had a university and a printing
establishment, from which they sent forth learned men and the records
of their lore. One reason of the sacredness of the place is the tradition
that Queen Esther was born there: another, that many eminent rabbits
are buried there: a third, that it is one of the four Holy Cities: but
the strongest reason of all is the prevalent belief that the Messiah til
ﬁrst come to Szaﬂ'ad; and will reign there for forty years before he
goes to Jerusalem. Those whom he ﬁnds watching, he will highly
exalt, as the watchers believe; and their hope is to obtain oﬁees of
honor in his' kingdom. Even the dead will be the better for having
died there: and thus, many a poor Polish or Italian Jew toils and
saves, and saves and toils, to get to Szaﬂ'ad, to end his days. On his
arrival, he is presently stripped of his savings, by the local exactiou!
which have been ordained to meet such cases as his; and then he lives
on as he can: but, be his wretchedness what it may, he never leaves
Szafl'ad. The employments here are chieﬂy indigo-dyeing, spinning
and weaving cotton, growing fruit, and preparing wine. I observed a
few palms still, though I thought we had seen the last of them: and ,
abundance of pomegranates, lemons and walnuts.

Our encampment was beside a cemetery, in a little valley between
two of the four eminences mentioned above. The castle tows!“I '
above it; and the hill sides were marked by winding ways up to the
summits. Near us was a copious spring, ﬂowing into a cistern. when
noisy women were thronging all day. When I went in the event;
to see the spring, the women were boisterous and rude, pulling at my
dress, trying whether my hat would come oﬂ‘,.and so on: even th
our dragoman was within si ht: but when we entered two or that
houses, to taste wine and mags inquiries, the people were very civil.—
While daylight lasted, there was a row of gazers crouched on the gut”
before the tent, peeping in so pertinaciously,—in spite of warning.

a few blows from the servants, that we were obliged to let down .
curtains. We 3 ent the daylight hours in walking about the remalni
of the town, an lookin abroad from the loftiest points. [was on
nearly the highest groun when the sun went down behind the western
mountain, dim, and as pale as the moon. All transparency seemed”
be departing from the atmosphere; and where the Sea of Tiber"s
should have been, there was at last only a blot of dark gray trap?!-
The wind was rising and falling,.and the aspect of this once great ell?
and stronghold was most cheerless.

The night and morning being rainy, we rose late,—at half past six;
and merely looked about us, without attempting to start till the weatlwr
cleared : but by nine o’clock, the clouds were gone, except a few ﬂeeces
hanging about the mountains; and, as we descended Djebel Ssaﬂ'adv
we saw to the utmost advantage the wonderful ruin crowning the steep!‘
above us, and the beautiful Upper Valley of the Jordan, now opening
before us. Its scenery is of a mild and soft character: and we saw 1‘

