masons—cause or man union. 99

Hercules, which were is r than Asia and Africa united. This sets
one thinking whether the gyptians had not some notion of the exist-
ence of America.

Within seventy years or so of Solon’s visit to E pt, a truly great
man followed on his traces. Pythagoras was unsatisﬁed with all that
could be learned from teachers at home,——from Thales downwards,—
and went to Egypt to study philosophy and morals. He was intro-
duced to King Amasis at Sal's by letters from Polycrates. There is no
saying how much of the philosophy of Pythagoras is derived, and how
much original: nor, of that which is derived, how much he owed to
intercourse with the sages of Chaldtea and other countries. But I think
no one who has felt an interest in the study of what is known of the
Pythagorean philosophy. can fail to be reminded of the philosOpher at
every step in those chambers of the tombs at Thebes which relate to
life and death subjects. Where the paintings treat of the constitution
of things, the regions which the soul of man may inhabit, and the states
through which it may pass, one feels that Pythagoras might have been
the designer of them, if he were not a learner from them. I strongly
suspect it would be found, if the truth could be known, that more of
the spiritual religion, the abstruse philosophy, and the lofty ethics and
political views of the old Egy tians have found their way into the gene-
ral mind of our race through Pythagoras than by any or all other chan-
nels, except perhaps the institutions of Moses, and the speculations of
Plato. Some traditions, among the many which exist in relation to
this, the ﬁrst man who assumed the title of philos0pher, report him to
have lived twenty years in the Nile valley; and then to have been
carried off prisoner to Babylon, on the Persian invasion of Egypt.

This brings as near to the close of the great Third Period of Egyptian
history. Before the Persians came, however, Hecatmus of Miletus,
mentioned before as the earliest historical authorit , went up to Thebes.
I have spoken already of what he saw and heartlV there.

Cyrus was meanwhile meditating a renewal of the old wars between
Babylon and Egypt, which had formerly been all to the glory of the
Pharaohs. Before his death, Cyrus took Cyprus from the Egyptians:
and he bequeathed the task of conquering Egypt itself to his son Cam-
byses.—The wise and fortunate Ki Amasis died before Cambyses
reached Egypt: and with him, the ird riod of Egyptian history
may be said to have expired; for his son sammenitus could make so
little resistance, that he had completed his surrender to the foolish and
cruel conqueror before he had been on the throne six months.

We have now reached the monrnful close of the great Third Period
of Egyptian history; and there is little to dwell on in the succeeding
two hundred years, when Egypt was a prorinee of Persia. Upper
Egypt neverrose again. If there had been any strength or s irit left
in her, she right have driven out Camhyses: for his folly t him
opentoalmostanykindor degreeof resistaneefrom man or nature.
Nature did her utmost to avenge the conquered people: but they could
not help themselves. Cambyses set out for Ethiopia with his l’er-
sians,leavinghisGreek troopstodefend theDelta: but he made no

