ruin-or enmsan'rn. 475

mental cd’mmotion could hardly be imagined; nor a more welcome
relief when “the wind ceased, and there was a great calm.”

As we descended into the plain of Gennesareth, we perceived it to
be abundantly watered; and our track was muddy ;—a new incident
to us. Migdol,—-the old Magdala,—-is now a wretched village. We
passed massive ruins of some ancient structures ;—weed-grown walls
overhang a clear running stream, and embosomed in blossoming shrubs.
The plain was scantily cultivated: but so thickly-grown with weeds as
to show how fertile it might still be.—Clouds passed over us from the
north-west, sprinkling heavy drops as they went; and they were suc-
ceeded by hot sunshine: but these changes seemed to have‘no effect
on the weather in the basin below, where all was a leaden gray.—-We
ascended by narrow tracks, rocky hills which occasionally afforded
some relief of table-land, with its settlements and orchards; but which
became steeper and longer as we approached Szaﬂ'ad, (the ancient
Saphet.) which we reached in about eight hours from Tiberias. In one
pass, about two hours short of Szaﬁ'ad, we saw portals in the precipice,
which told of espulchres within.

Szaﬂ'ad is an extraordinary place; and I could not but wonder that
we brought so few associations to the spot as we did. It is the magni-
ﬁcent crest of some of the loftiest summits in Palestine; and it is seen
towering above every object on this side Lebanon, from a great distance
every way. Dr. Robinson saw it from Nazareth; and from it may be
seen, in clear weather, Carmel, and the mountains of Samaria beyond
the plain of Esdraélon, and the extremity of the Lake of Tiberias,
where the Jordan issues from it. The atmosphere was not clear
enough this evening, for us to see these things: but our eyes were
amply entertained with what lay nearer.—The whole vicinity is very
fertile, the ruins of former streets being made to support, as terraces,
the soil from which spring corn, olives, ﬁgs and vines, in great quanti-
ties. The situation of the place is so lofty, and its air so pure in
comparison with that of the plains in every direction, that it was greatly
resorted to for health, in the days of its prosperity: and even from
Damascus the royal children were, in ancient times, sent hither for
change of air, and enjoyment of the abundant fruits. It is plentifully
and incessantly watered: so that one would think,—with good soil,
air and water,—-nothing could impair the natural rosperity of the
place. Yet it is a most mournful ruin. The eart quake is the foe
that has laid it low. It played its dreadful pranks as vivaciously here
as on the lower ground. ' The town, divided into quarters, lay on the
summits of four hills, with its massive castle towering above as the
centre of the noble diadem. Now, these quarters are four enormous
heaps of rubbish. The houses having been built in tiers, fell, one row
upon another, so as to make the ruin complete: and now, the vines are
trained over the fallen roofs; and from the heaped stones, sordid shades
are scooped out, to lodge those who will not leave the fated place.

Not only are there many who will not leave the place, but numbers
are perpetually arriving, to live and die at this, the most sacred of the
four Holy Cities. One of the quarters was appropriated to the Jews;

f
l"

