Tones. . 187

where there is more danger of the soil crumbling. We went as far as
heat and bats would let us in a priestly tomb which occupies an acre
and a quarter of the heart of the rock. The great man who occupied
it left other tokens of his wealth; but none could be more striking than
this. There is an extraordinary array of niches, pillars and pits: but
the covering of almost the whole of the walls with small hieroglyphic
writing is the crowning wonder. . Will no one go and read ‘this great
volume of Egyptian ecclesiastical history ? -

// The tomb of the Pharaoh who pursued the Hebrews to the Red Sea,
is extremely interesting. There are ﬁve lines of tribute-bearers—-black,
red, light red, and yellow,—-—showing how extensive was his dominion.
The people of “ Pount" 'bring ivory, apes, leopards, and other tropical
wealth. The next bring valuables of an ornamental kind which they
declare to be “ chosen offerings of the chiefs of the gentiles of Kufa.”*
Next come Ethiopians, “ gentiles of the south,” with African gifts of
beasts, skins and gold. Then come the whites,—red-haired,—-dressed
in white garments with a blue border,-—arms covered (Sir G. Wilkin-
son saw gloves, but I did. not), and bringing, among other offerings, a
bear. These must be northern people, surely ;——and at the time of the
Exodus! Their wives follow with the other women who are collected
in the rear; and they are dressed in long gowns which have three
ﬂounces. If our upholsterers might study in these tombs, so, it ap-
pears, might our dress-makers.

This is the tomb which exhibits to us the Egyptian trades. which it
is so interesting to understand. When one looks at the brick-making,
one thinks of the Hebrews who were just effecting their escape from
that ewloyment. I will abstain from details which may be found

gird! elsewhere, mentioning only, as curious, the bellows, the in-

, joining'of wood of different colors with glue, the stone.cut-

‘r3iud, above all, the carving of the Sphinx, and of two colossal

es, which some suppose to be the Vocal Statue, and the Karnae

lossus. The men are at work on stages, chipping away at the
mighty monster, the Sphinx, which here looks as calm and cheerful as
afterwards in its own person, among the sands. 1 Such of these tombs
as are simple tunnels are airy and lofty. The roof of this one rises
'towards the inner end,—-—no one knows why; for the effect is not good
in any way. In the sporting tomb we see how the Egyptians excelled
in the painting of animals. The animation of action here, and generally
where brutes are presented, shows that the stiffness and monotony of
their human images were from choice, and not from incapacity for
other methods. The animation of their warrior ﬁgures indeed shows
the same thing. ‘ '
We visited, of course, the tombs of the Queens, and explored two, as
far as decay and the blackening of the walls would permit. The do-
minions of these ancient ladies were indicated by masses of red and
ellow rock, with large black birds perched upon them. The com-
plexions are somewhat. strange and perplexing. The yellow prevails,

f

 
   
 

' Wilkinson's Modern Egypt and Thebes, II. 235.

