nasaort. 881

Hebron! I would recommend a Newcastle one in preference, as there
the glass is not greenish and thin, and the articles made can stand up-
right. We thought here as before, however, that the Arabs are expert
enough at manual arts, if they had fair play with tools and material.

, The most interesting object in Hebron, the tombs of the Patriarchs,
is of course inaccessible to Christians. Neither Jew nor Christian is
permitted to set foot within the mosque. We walked nearly round it,
and caught a view of the long ﬂight of steps inside. We saw also the
cistern where the worshipers wash; and that was all. It is believed
that the Faithful themselves are not permitted to enter the Cave of
Machpelah. Above the cave, a small mosque is built: and the mosque
stands in a court, which is surrounded by the great circuit wall under
which we walked. This massive stone wall is ﬁfty or sixty feet high,
and extends for about two hundred feet in length. It is needless to
say that it effectually prevented our seeing anything beyond itself.

In returning to the tents, we passed the two pools, believed to be very
ancient, from which the town draws its whole supply of water. These
pools are ﬁlled by the rain merely: and one of them was very weedy
and foul when we saw it. The other was clear. They are, large and
deep: the larger measuring, accordin to Dr. Robinson,ilt one hundred
and thirty-three feet uare, with a epth of nearly twenty-two feet.
One of these is called t e King’s Pool, and is, accordin to tradition,
the pool mentioned 2 Sam. iv. 12, as the seene of a horn le execution
in David’s time. . '

It was. so cold this evening that we were glad of a charcoal ﬁre in
our tent. The Sheikh perceived this to be a good time for extorting
money, by interfering with a lady‘s shelter for the night. He did not
meddle with Mr. E., having had enough of him. He took his money
very quietly; and we congratulated Mr. E. on having done with him.
But an urgent message came from two of the cler ymen, beg ing Mr. E.
to come and be] them to get rid of the Shei h. We t ought our
friend had already had too much put upon him, and saw no occasion
for his being mixed up with further quarrels, when he had ﬁnished the
general business; and we dissuaded him from going. A second mes-
sage came, however, so urgent as to summon him ; and there he found
the Shaikh pulling down the tent from over the heads of these gentle-
men and the sister of one of them. He was goin to seize both their
tents, if they did not immediately pay some absur demand which he
had imagined for the occasion. Mr. E. obtained only an abatement of
forty-four piastres: and the rest was paid at once, to enable the lady to
go to rest.—-In the morning, the Sheikh requested permission, and cer-
tainly with enuine anxiety, to shake hands with Mr. E. This was
refused: and all that he could obtain by humble and persevering sup-
plication, was permission to touch Mr. E.’s hand. He ﬁnally asked
fora testimonial letter; but was told that he had better say. nothing
about it, as we could report little favorable of him: whereupon he ve
us such a salutation as we should have looked for if he had obtained

' Biblical Researches, II. 432.

