186 am LIPI.

husbands are shooting down the Mexicans with a hatred as cordial as
any Ramases ever felt for his southern or eastern foes. And if we
ourselves have not outgrown warfare, (and it is too soon to declare
that we have.) we may present the same humiliating spectacle to the
antiquarians of a future age. Our warfare'will not be so savage as
that of these old heathcns; but it will be far more shameful, inasmuch
as wecall ourselves Christians.

Among the ﬁgures in*this tomb are two harpers playing before the
god A0, or Hercules. They are clothed in white garments, striped
with red: and their harps have each ten strings. Some preceding tra-
velers have declared these harpers to be blind; but there is now too
much defacement about the heads to permit this to be seen.

The most striking device I observed in this tomb (unless indeed it
be the piggish soul returning to earth in charge of the monkeys), was
one which related to the death of the occupant of the tomb. The
funereal boat is drawn by men who are at a lose about passing the
bridge before them. The steep, angular bridge intercepts the rope;
but the scarabmus stoops to help. By its hind legs it hangs to the
heaven; while, with its foreclaws it pulls up the rope, allowing the
hearse to pass. In this position the scarabzeus signiﬁes the resur-
rection. _

Each of the small apartments having a closed pit, Sir G. Wilkinson
supposes“' that each was the burial-place of that ofﬁcer of the royal
household whose function is illustrated on the walls :—as the cook, the
armor-bearer, the gardener, &c. This appears very probable.

In the tomb of the Pharaoh who reigned (it is thought) in right of '
his wife Taosiri, there is a vaulted chamber in which we could only
grope till our dragoman lighted a ﬁre of straw. Its blaze showed us a
most striking device, representing the king in his former and present
state of being. In the upper hemisphere is the sun, and a living man.
Then there is the scarabaeus, head downwards, representing, as before,
the resurrection or immortality which connects the two lives of earth
and‘ heaven. Beneath is the moon, above the funereal altar, where Isis
attends with her protecting wings, and mourners are ranged,—the whole
group being inclosed by a half-circle of human-headed birds.

The tomb of Osirei II. is remarkable for being in great part unﬁn-
ished, though begun with great care and pains. This condition is at
once a proof and a consequence of the shortness of his reign. This
tomb is remarkably clear and bright looking: but the ﬁgures become
barer and . barer as we proceed,——one sort of lines of illustration after
another failing, till we come to blank walls. The sarcophagus cham-
ber is quite rough and rude: but the sculptured ﬁgure of the king on
the lid of the sarcophagus is ﬁne,—being in relief to the height of nine
inches.

The priests took care to preserve their grandeur and rank after death.
Their tombs are found where the rock is of the mpst compact quality,
ﬁt to bear extensive excavations, while inferior people must ﬁnd a place

' Modern Egypt and Thebes, II. 209.

