180 smarts use.

ndeur in the work,—-to which the inspiration of the god seems to
ave been sadly wanting. We saw nothing ruder than this temple;
which yet is grand in its way. *

The whole of it is within the rock except the area. The area has
four columns in front, and four Osirides. These. colossi are round—faced
and ugly, and have lost their helmets, and some their heads. One head
lies to sy—turvy, the placid expression of the face contrasting strangely
with t e agony of its position. The colossi do not hold the crosier and
ﬂagellum in their crossed hands, as usual; but both in the right hand,
while the left arm hangs by the side. On the remnant of the wall of
the area are some faint traces of sculpture, and two niches, containing
three ﬁgures each.-—The striking moment to the visitor is that of en-
tering the rock. He ﬁnds himself among six Osirides, which look
enormous from standing very near each other ;—themselves and the
square pillars behind them seeming to ﬁll up half the hall. These
ﬁgures are, after all, only eighteen feet h' h; and of most clumsy work-
manship ;—with short thick legs, short i -shaped feet, and more bulk
than grandeur throughout. I observed here, as at Aboo-Simbil, that
the wide separation between the great toe and the next seems to tell of
the habitual use of sandals.

In the walls of the aisles behind the Osirides, are eight niches, each
containing three ﬁgures, in high relief. In every niche, the ﬁgures are
represented, I think, in the same attitude,——with their arms round one
another’s necks; but they bear different symbols. The middle ﬁgure
of every roup is Ra, as patron of Ramases; and he is invoked as dwell-
ing at Su and Dirt, 83 well as here; the three temples bein , as we
have seen, of one group or family. Ra is here called the son 0 Phthah
and Athor. The sculptures on the wall are now much blackened by
‘ the torches of visitors, and perhaps by Arab ﬁres. But the bright
colors, of which traces yet remain, may have much ameliorated the
work in its own day. Across the usual corridOr, with its usual pair of
chambers inhabited by bats, lies the H01 Place. It has an altar in the
middle, and a recess with four ﬁgures. he goddess Anouké, crowned
with her circlet of feathers, and Athor are here. .

This temple extendsonly one hundred and thirty feet into the rock.
Its position and external plonico are its most striking features.

We returned by the vi , and certainly should not have found out
for ourselves that the ople are the savages they are reputed to be.
They appeared friendly: cheerful, and well-fed. We looked into some
houses, and found the interiors very clean. Many of the raves of
their cemetery have jars at the head, which are duly ﬁlled wrth water
every Friday,—-the Mohammedan Sabbath. The door of a yard which
we passed in the village had an iron knocker, of a thoroughly modern
ap’i‘hearance. I wonder how it came there.

ere was a strong wind this evening; and the boat rolled so much
as to allow of neither writing nor reading in comfort. We were not
sorry, therefore, to moor below Dendoor, at 10 P. m, and enjoy the
prospect of a quiet night, and another temple before breakfast.

