. in the works of Diodorus 8iculus——Manetho, an Egyptian, of whom
also we have only extracts in other authors; but who supplies very
valuable information—Eratosthenes of Cyrene, whose writings are at
once illustrative of those of Manetho and a check upon them ; Diodo-
rus Siculus, who traveled in Egypt, and wrote a history of it, rather
more than half a century before the Christian era; Strabo, who has
left us a full account of what he saw in Egypt, between Alexandria
and the First Cataract-—and Abdallatif, an Arabian physician, who sup-
plies a valuable report of the state of the Nile Valley and its people
when he visited them in the twelfth century. It is the business of
modern inquirers to separate what these historians derived from the
depositories of the national mythi from what they personally observed;
to compare their works with one another, and to apply them as a key
(where this can be done), to the monumental records.

As to the use of the monumental records, several precautions are no-
cesary. Modern inquirers must beware of interpreting what they see
by their own favorite ideas.—as travelers do who contrive to see He-
brew groups among the Egyptian sculptures :—they must diligently
and patiently work out the knowledge of the ancient language and its
signs, and beware of straining the little they know of these, to accom-
modate any historical theory they may carry in their minds :—and they
must remember that the ediﬁce and its sculptures are uotalways of the
same date, and that therefore what is true of the one is not necessarily
true of the other. .

Without going into any detail (which would ﬁll a volume if entered
upon at all) about the respective values of these authorities, and their .
agreements and conﬂicts, I may give a slight sketch of what competent
modern inquirers believe we have learned from them.

For our ﬁrst glimpse into ancient Egyptian life we must go back upon
the track of Time far further than we have been accustomed to sup-
pose that track to extend. People who had believed all their lives
that the globe and man were created together, were startled when the
new science of geology revealed to them the great fact that man is a
comparatively new creation on the earth, whose oceans and swamps
and jungles were aforetime inhabited by monsters never seen by human
eye but in their fossil remains. People who enter Egypt with the be-
lief that the human race has existed only six thousand years, and that
at that date, the world was uninhabited by men, except within a small
circuit in Asia, must undergo a somewhat similar revolution of ideas.
All new research operates to remove further back the date of the forma-
tion of the Egyptian empire. The differences between the dates given
by legendary records and by modern research (with the help of cotem-
porary history) are very great: but the .one agrees as little as the other
13th the popular notion that the human race is only six thousand years
0 .

When Hecatmus of Miletus was at Thebes, about 500 B. 0., he
spoke, as Herodotus tells us,‘ to the priests of Amun, of his genealogy,

' Herod. II. 143.

