TEMPLE OF DENDERAH. 275

were produced at Tentyra, and it gained some reputation
thereby. In very ancient times Chufu or Cheops, a king
of the IVth dynasty, founded a temple here, but it seems
never to have become of much importance,* probably
because it lay so close to the famous shrines of Abydos
and Thebes. The wonderfully preserved Temple now
standing there is probably not older than the beginning
of our era; indeed, it cannot, in any case, be older
than the time of the later Ptolemies: hence it must
be considered as the architectural product of a time when
the ancient Egyptian traditions of sculpture were already
dead and nearly forgotten. It is, however, a majestic
monument, and worthy of careful examination]L Strabo
says (Bk. xvii, ch. i. 44) of this town and its inhabitants;
“Next to Abydos is ..... . the city Tentyra, where the
crocodile is held in peculiar abhorrence, and is regarded as
the most odious of all animals. For the other Egyptians,
although acquainted with its mischievous disposition, and
hostility towards the human race, yet worship it, and abstain
from doing it harm. But the people of Tentyra track and
destroy it in every way. Some, however, as they say of
the Psyllians of Cyrenzea, possess a certain natural anti-
pathy to snakes, and the people of Tentyra have the same
dislike to crocodiles, yet they suffer no injury from them,
but dive and cross the river when no other person ventures
to do so. When crocodiles were brought to Rome to
be exhibited, they were attended by some of the Tentyritae.

* M. Mariette thought that a temple to Hathor existed at Denderah
during the XIIth, XVIIIth and XIXth dynasties.

1' “Accessible comme il l’est aujourd’huijusque dans la derniere de
ses chambres, i1 semble 5e présenter au visiteur comme un livre qu‘il
n’a qﬁ’a ouvrir et a consulter. Mais 1e temple de Dende’rah est, en
somme, un monument terriblement complexe. . . . Il faudrait plusieurs
années pour copier tout Ce vaste ensemble, et i1 faudrait vingt volumes
du format (folio !) de nos quatre volumes de planches pour le publier.”
—Mariette, Delm’z’ralz, Dm 77211.01: Ge'ne’rale, p. 10.

T2

