314 NOTES FOR TRAVELLERS 1N EGYPT.

the “Book of being in the underworldﬂ’ it is quite
impossible to describe them here, for a large number of
pages would be required for the purpose. It must be sufﬁ-
cient to draw attention to the excellence and beauty of the
paintings and sculptures, and to point out that the whole
series refers to the life of the king in the under—world. The
tomb is entered by means oftwo flights of steps, at the bottom
of which is a passage terminating in a small chamber.
Beyond this are two halls having four and two pillars respec-
tively, and to the left are the passages and small chambers
which lead to the large six-pillared hall and vaulted chamber
in which stood the sarcophagus of Seti I. Here also is an
inclined plane which descends into the mountain for a con-
siderable distance; from the level of the ground to the
bottom of this incline the depth is about 150 feet; the
length of the tomb is nearly 500 feet. The designs on
the walls were ﬁrst sketched in outline in red, and the
alterations by the master designer or artist were made in
black; it would seem that this tomb was never ﬁnished.
The mutilations and destruction which have been committed
here during the last twenty-ﬁve years are truly lamentable.
The mummy of Seti 1., found at Der el-Bahari, is preserved
in the Gizeh Museum.

No. II. Tomb Of Rameses III., B.C. 1200, commonly
called “Bruce’s Tomb,” because it was discovered by this
traveller, and the “Tomb of the Harper,” on account of the
scene in it in which men are represented playing harps.
The architect did not leave sufficient space between this
and a neighbouring tomb, and hence after excavating pas-
sages and chambers to a distance of more than 100 feet, he
was obliged to turn to the right to avoid breaking into it.
The ﬂight of steps leading into the tomb is not as steep as
that in No. 17, the paintings and sculptures are not so ﬁne,
and the general plan of ornamentation differs. The scenes
on the walls of the ﬁrst passage resemble those in the ﬁrst

