122 NOTES FOR TRAVELLERS IN EGYPT.

dynasty, B.C. 378. The PANEUM, or temple of Pam, is
probably represented by the modern Kém ed-Dilc. The
JEws’ QUARTER lay between the sea and the street, to the
east of Lochias. The NECROPOLIS was situated at the
west of the city. The GYMNASIUM stood a little to the east
of the Paneum, on the south side of the street which ends,
on the east, in the Canopic Gate.

Pompey’s Pillar was erected by Pompey, a Roman
prefect, in honour of Diocletian, some little time after A.D.
302.* It is made of granite brought from Aswan; the shaft
is about 70 feet, and the whole monument, including its
pedestal, is rather more than 100 feet high. The fragments
of the columns which lie around the base of this pillar are
thought to have belonged to the Serapeum.

A few years ago there were to be seen in Alexandria the
two famous granite obelisks called Cleopatra's Needles.
They were brought from Heliopolis during the reign of the
Roman Emperor Augustus, and set up before the Temple
of Caesar. Until quite lately one of them remained up-
right; the other had fallen. They are both made of Aswan
granite; one measured 67 feet in height, the other 68% feet;
the diameter of each is about 7% feet. The larger obelisk
was given by Muhammad ‘Ali to the English early in this
century, but it was not removed until 1877, when it was
transported to England at the expense of Sir Erasmus
Wilson, and it now stands on the Thames Embankment.
The smaller obelisk was taken to New York a few years
later. The inscriptions show that both were made during the
reign of'l‘hothmes TIL, about n.c. I6oo,and that Rameses II.,
who lived about 250 years later, added lines of inscriptions
recording his titles of honour and greatness.

* The Greek inscription recording this fact is published in Boeelch,
Corpus Imtriptt'amlm Gm‘mrum, t. iii., p. 329, where it is also thus
restored : Tbv [6a]m’:rarov Abroxptiropa, riw wkoonv 'AAeEavdpeiag,
Atonknnavbv rbv dm’xnrov 1ro[p1rr'ﬁ]oc {wrapxng Ai'ytiwrov ......

