DER EL<BAHARl. 405

be interested to know that the newly found fragments of
the wall upon which the expedition to Punt is depicted all
agree in pointing to the eastern side of Africa as the.
country which the Egyptians called Punt; some of the
animals in the reliefs are identical with those found to this
day on the Abyssinian coast, and the general products of
the two countries are the same. Punt was famous for its
ebony, and all tradition agrees in making Abyssinia, and
the countries south and east of it, the home of the ebony
tree. The tombs at Der el-Bahari were opened many, many
years ago, and a very large number of the cofﬁns with which
Mariette furnished the ﬁrst Egyptian Museum at 1313le
came from them; since that time the whole site has been
carefully searched by diggers for antiquities, hence com-
paratively few antiquities have been unearthed by M. Naville.
On February ISl'. he succeeded in discovering an untouched
mummy—pit, and in a small chamber hewn in the solid rock,
about twelve feet below the pavement, he found three
wooden rectangular cofﬁns (each containing two inner
cofﬁns), with arched lids, wooden hawks and jackals,
wreaths of ﬂowers, and a box containing a large number of
usﬂablm ﬁgures. These cofﬁns contained the mummies of
a priest called Menthu-Tehuti-auf-ankh, and of his mother
and of his aunt; they belong to the period of the XXVIth
dynasty, or perhaps a little earlier.

The great interest which attaches to the name of the able
queen Hatshepset, and the romantic circumstances under
which she lived and reigned, have induced manyto endeavour
to discover her mummy and her tomb ,- up to the present,
however, all search has failed to bring either to light. During
his excavations M. Naville has kept this fact steadily before
him, and he eventually found a place which, he says, was
not improbably her tomb. In the passage between the
retaining wall of the middle platform and the enclosure he
came upon an inclined plane cut in the rock and leading to

