124 NOTES FOR TRAVELLERS IN EGYPT.

Kalyﬂb. It obtained this name because a Copt called
Makawlgas" sent, among other gifts, a jar of honey to
Muhammad the Prophet. The Arabic geographers state
that the best honey in Egypt comes from Benha. Quite
close to this town are the ruins of the ancient city of
Athribis.

About forty miles to the east of Alexandria lies the town
of Rosetta, not far from the ancient Bolbitane. It was
founded towards the end of the ninth century, and was
oncea ﬂourishing seaport; it has become famous in modern
times on account of the trilingual inscription, called the
‘Rosetta Stone,’ which was found here in 1799 by a
French ofﬁcer called Boussard. This inscription was
inscribed on a block of basalt, and contained a decree by
the Egyptian priests in honour of Ptolemy V., Epiphanes,
dated in the eighth year of his reign (13.0 196). The hiero-
glyphic, demotic, and Greek texts enabled Young and
Champollion to work out the phonetic values of a number
of the hieroglyphic characters employed to write the names
of the Greek rulers. The stone is preserved in the British
Museum.

* Maltawkas was “ Prince of the Copts,” and “ Governor of Alex-
andria and Egypt”; he was a Jacobite, and a strong hater of the
Melchites or “ Royalists.” He was invited to become a follower of
Muhammad the Prophet, but he declined. When Egypt was captured
by ‘Amr ibn el-‘Asi he betrayed the Copts, but by means of paying
tribute be secured to himself the liberty of professing the Christian
religion, and he asked that, after his death, his body might be buried
in the church of St. John at Alexandria. He sent, as gifts to the
Prophet, two Coptic young women, sisters, called Maryam and Shirin;
two girls, one eunuch, a horse, a mule, an ass, a jar of honey, an
alabaster jar, a jar of oil, an ingot of gold, and some Egyptian linen.

(Gagnier, [.a wig de Ilia/towel, pp. 38, 73.) Makawltas, Vivi"

appears to be the Arabic transcription of the Greek pryavxﬁg
“famous,” a title which was bestowed upon George, the son of
Menas Parkabios, who was over the taxes of Egypt, and who was
addressed by Muhammad the Prophet as “ Prince ofthe Copts.”

