336 NOTES FOR TRAVELLERS IN EGYPT.

ofﬁcers into the Sﬁdan to bring back pigmies to amuse
them. It is much to he hoped that the good work begun
here by Sir Francis Grenfell will be continued systemati-
cally, and that the whole site could be thoroughly explored.
Aswan was as famous for its granite, as Silsileh was for its
sandstone. The Egyptian kings were in the habit of sending
to Aswan for granite to make sarcophagi, temples, obelisks,
etc, and it will be remembered that Unit was sent there to
bring back in barges granite for the use of Pepi 1., a king
of the VIth dynasty. It is probable that the granite
slabs which cover the pyramid of Mycerinus (IVth dynasty)
were brought from Aswan. The undetached obelisk, which
still lies in one of the quarries, is an interesting Object.
Near the quarries are two ancient Arabic cemeteries, in
which are a number of sandstone grave—stones, many of them
formed from stones taken from Ptolemaic buildings, inscribed
in Cuﬁc* characters with the names of the Muhammadans
buried there, and the year, month, and day on which they
died. We learn from them that natives of Edfﬁ and other
parts of Egypt were sometimes brought here and buried.
The ﬁrst Cataract, called Shellal by the Arabs, begins
a little to the south of Aswan, and ends a little to the north
of the island of l’hilze; eight cataracts are reckoned on the
Nile, but this is the most generally known. Here the Nile
becomes narrow and flows between two mountains, which
descend nearly perpendicularly to the river, the course of
which is obstructed by huge boulders and small rocky
islands and barriers, which stand on different levels, and

* A kind of Arabic writing in which very old copies of the Kor‘ﬁn,
etc., are written: it takes its name from Kﬁf'ah, Lug” El-lt’zﬁfa, a
town on the Euphrates. Kﬁfah was one of the (:11?le cities of ‘Irﬁk,
and is famous in the Muhammadan world because Muhammad and his
immediate successors dwelt there. Enoch lived here, the ark was
built here, the boiling waters of the Flood ﬁrst burst out here, and
Abraham had a place of prayer set apart here.

