THE EGYPTIAN MUSEUM AT GiZEI—I. 157

,Gizeh should participate in this prosperity and receive a

larger grant of money, both for making purchases and
excavations, for the attraction of the antiquities of the
country is a very real and genuine matter, and induces
travellers to visit it again and again. Whether the anti-
quities remain in their present position, or whether the
authorities decide to remove them to a more suitable
building in Cairo, it is equally certain that the English
advisers of the Khedive will never allow the progress of
an institution which draws much money into the country,
and which is now doing splendid w01k, to be hampered for
the sake of a few thousand pounds a year.

The founding of the Brile Museum is due to the marvel-
lous energy and perseverance of F. Auguste Ferdinand
Mariette. This distinguished Frenchman was born at
Boulogne—sur-Mer on February 11th, 1821.* His grand-
father was the author of several poetical works, short plays,
etc., but his father was only an employé in the Registrar’s
Ofﬁce of his native town. He was educated at Boulogne,
and was made professor there when he was twenty years of
age; here too he lived until 1848. Side by side with the
duties of his professorship he devoted himself in turn to
journalism, painting, novel-writing, etc., and in addition to
these matters he found time to study archaeology. Some
of his early studies were devoted to classical archaeology,
and here, according to M. Maspero, he exhibited “power
of discussion, clearness and vigour of style, and keen
penetration,” qualities for which in after-life he was famous.

* For full accounts of the life of Mariette, see Inauguration dz:
lilo/111mm! e'leve' (i Bonioglze-szzr-ﬂlm' en f/zomzez/r n’c l’ln’igyplo/ogue
Auguste Illarz'rtle, le 16 _]'uillet, 1882, par Aug. Huguet, Mayor of
Boulogne, Boulogne, 1882 ; and \Vallon, Notz're 51W la vie 2! [er trazmnx
tie 11‘. A. F. [Mariette Par/2a, Paris, 1883, 4to., with portrait of Mariette
as frontispiece ; and Maspero, Guide an ﬁlm/e de Boa/m], Cairo, 1884,
pp. 12—23.

