THE EGYPTIAN MUSEUM AT GiZEH. 155

Morgan, who at once began the task of re-arranging the
collection and of examining the contents of the “magazine”
with the view of increasing the number of exhibited objects.
During the past year the work has been pushed on with
great energy, and we believe that the visitors to the Gizeh
Museum will greatly appreciate what the staff has done. It
will be remembered that of the rooms in the palace, only
some thirty-eight contained antiquities two years ago; now,
however, about eighty-seven are used for exhibition pur-
poses, and, for the ﬁrst time, it is possible to see of what
the Egyptian collection really consists. On the ground
floor the positions of several of the large monuments have
been changed, and the chronological arrangement is more
accurate than before. In one large handsome room are
exhibited for the ﬁrst time several ﬁne mastaba stelae, which
have been brought from Sakkarah during the past year.
The brightness of the colours, the vigour of the ﬁgures, and
the beauty of the hieroglyphics upon these ﬁne monuments
of the early dynasties, will, we believe, make them objects
of general interest and attraction. On the same ﬂoor the
visitor will also examine with wonder two splendid colossal
statues of the god Ptah which were excavated by M. de
Morgan at Memphis in 1892. In a series of rooms are
arranged the cofﬁns and mummies of the priests of Amen
which M. (irébaut brought down from Thebes in the winter
of [890791. The cofﬁns are of great interest, for they are
ornamented with mythological scenes and ﬁgures of the
gods which seem to be peculiar to the period immediately
following the rule of the priests kings of Thebes, 216., from
about DC. Iooo—Soo.

A new and important feature in the arrangement of the
rooms on the upper ﬂoor is the section devoted to the
exhibition of papyri. Here in ﬂat glazed cases are shown
at full length ﬁne copies of the Book of the Dead, hieratic
texts, including the unique copy of the “ Maxims of Ani,”

