EGYPTIAN \VRITING. 7!

The ancient Egyptians had: I. the vague or civil year,
which consisted of 365 days; it was divided into twelve
months of thirty days each, and ﬁve intercalary days were
added at the end; II. the Sothic year of 365:}; days. The
ﬁrst year of a Sothic period began with the rising of Sirius
or the dog-star, on the Ist of the month ’l‘hoth, when it
coincided with the beginning of the inundation; III. the
Egyptian solar year,* which was a quarter of a day shorter
than the Sothic year, an error which corrected itself in 1460
ﬁxed years or 1461 vague years. The true year was estimated
approximately by the conjunction of the sun with Sirius. Dr.
Brugsch thinks (E551?! under [/26 .P/mnw/zs, Vol. II., p. I 76)
that as early as B.C. 2500 four different forms of the year were
already in use, and that the “little year” corresponded with
the lunar year, and the “great year” with a lunar year
having intercalated days. Each month was dedicated to a
godﬁt The Egyptians dated their stelte and documents by
the day of the month and the year of the king who was
reigning at the time. The Copts ﬁrst dated their documents
according to the years of the INDICTION, the indictions were
periods of ﬁfteen years, and the ﬁrst began A.D. 312. In
later times the Copts made use of the era of the Martyrs,
which was reckoned from the 29th of August, A.D. 284.
About the ninth century after Christ they began to adopt
the Muhammadan era of the Hijrah or “ﬂight,” which was
reckoned from A.D. 622.

* It was practically the same as the civil year.
+ Some of the Coptic names of the months show that they have

been derived from the ancient Egyptian: thus Théth is from ,

. c. \\
T elmti, I’achén’dfrom § 1@ C/mmt, Athor from I, lint-Herzl,
Mesﬁre from (“k (97 alter-Herzl, “ the birth of Horus ’7 festival,
etc. The Copts have I. an agricultural year, and II. an ecclesiastical
year; the latter consists of twelve months of thirty days, with a
thirteenth month called Nissi of ﬁve or six intercalary (lays.

