
Page-0
Google

This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project
to make the world’s books discoverable online.

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that’s often difﬁcult to discover.

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this ﬁle — a reminder of this book’s long journey from the
publisher to a library and ﬁnally to you.

Usage guidelines

Goo gle is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying.

We also ask that you:

-- Make non-commercial use of the ﬁles We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these ﬁles for
personal, non—commercial purposes.

-- Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google’s system: If you are conducting research on machine
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help.

-- Maintain attribution The Goo gle “watermark” you see on each ﬁle is essential for informing people about this project and helping them ﬁnd
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it.

 

-- Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can’t offer guidance on whether any speciﬁc use of
any speciﬁc book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book’s appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe.

About Google Book Search

Google’s mission is to organize the world’s information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers
discover the world’s books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web
at http: //books . google . com/
Page-1

Page-2

Page-3
Digmzed by ($00816
Page-4

Page-5

Page-6
Digmzed by ($00816
Page-7
PHILADELPHIA Z
‘l'. I. AND I. G. COLLIIS, YRINTBRS.
Page-8
EASTERN LIFE,

PRESENT AND PAST.

BY

HARRIET MARTINEAU.

“Joyful to receive the impreuion thereof, 3. the eye joyelh I» receive light; Ind not only
delighted in beholding the vuiery of Ihinge, Ind viciuimde of linen, but mined the In ﬁnd out
and discern the ordinmcel Ind decreee, which, rhroughoul :11 the» chnngee, u: inf-llibly
obeerved."-—BAcon. Advancement q] Learning, I.

COMPLETE IN ONE VOLUME.

PHILADELPHIA:
LEA ANDBLANCHARD

1848.
Page-9
PREFACE.

Is the autumn of 1846, I left home for, as I supposed, a few
weeks, to visit some of my family and friends. At Liverpool, I
was invited by my friends, Mr. and Mrs. Richard V. Yates, to
accompany them in their proposed travels in the East. By the
zeal and kindness of those who saw what a privilege this journey
would be, all obstacles in the shape of business and engagements
were cleared away; and in a month, I was ready to set out with
my kind friends—At Malta, we fell in with Mr. Joseph C. Ewart,
who presently joined our party, and remained with us till we
reached Malta on our return. There is nothing that I do not owe
to my companions for their unceasing care and indulgence: but
one act of kindness I felt particularly. They permitted me to
read to them my Egyptian journal, (there was no time for the
others,) that I might have the satisfaction of knowing whether
they agreed in my impressions of the facts which came under
our observation. About these facts there is an entire agreement
between them and me.—For the opinions expressed in this book,
no one is answerable but myself. .

It is by permission of my companions that I have thus named
them here, and spoken of them in my book as occasion required.
I am truly obliged to them for granting me this freedom, by which
I am spared much trouble of concealment and circumlocution
which, in their opinion and mine, the personal affairs of travel
are not important enough to require and justify.—Not having
asked a similar permission from our comrades in our Arabian
journey, I have said as little as possible about them, and sup-
pressed their names. I shall be glad if they ﬁnd anything in my
Page-10
iv PREFACE.

narrative to remind them pleasantly of that remarkable season of
our lives,—-our ﬁve weeks abode in the Desert.

Sir G. Wilkinson must be almost tired of the testimonies and
thanks of grateful travelers: but I must just say that he was, by
his books, a daily benefactor to us in Egypt. It is really cheering
to find that any one can be so accurate, and on so large a scale,
as his works prove him to be. Such almost faultless correctness
requires a union of intellectual and moral powers and training,
which it is encouraging for those who are interested in the results
of travel to contemplate. After making the fullest use of his
“Modern Egypt and Thebes,” we ﬁnd only about half-a-dozen
points in which we differ from him.

In regard to that difﬁcult matter,—diﬁicult to those who do not
understand Arabic,-—the spelling of the names of places and per-
sons in Egypt and Arabia,—I have done what every one will
allow to be the safest thing ;—I have followed the authority of
Mr. Lane wherever I could. If any English reader complains of
me for altering the look of familiar Egyptian names, it is enough
to reply that Mr. Lane knows better than any one, and that I copy
from him. If I have departed from his method anywhere, it is
merely because I had not his authority before me in those par-
ticular instances.

H. M.
Alon-um, 2501 March, 1848.
Page-11
CONTENTS.

 

PART I.

EGYPT AND ITS FAITH.

CHAPTER I.

First night of Allin—First sights in Afﬁn—Alexandxil - - -
CHAPTER II.

From Alexandria w Cain—First night of the PynmidL—Prepnmiom for

Nile Voyage - - - - . . . .
CHAPTER III.

Nile incidents—Crem—Birds—Face of the country—The heaven-.—

Towns and shores, betwpen Cairo and Azyoot - - - -
CHAPTER IV.

AsyooL—Old sham—Some elements of Egyptian thoughL—Fim crocodiles.
—Soohadj.—Girgeh.—Kenneh - - - . . .

CHAPTER V.
Walks uhore.—-Fim light of Theben.—Ad.foo.—Chrismm Day - -
CHAPTER VI.
A:w£n.—-Slnva.—Fim ride in the Deoen.—Quanies.—Elephnmine.—River
scenery—Preparations for Nubia—Fink sight of Pllilm - -
CHAPTER VII.
Ascent of the Cataract - - - - . . .
CHAPTER VIII.
NnIiL—Tho Second Contact - - - . - .
CHAPTER IX.

Iii-min! Sketch, from Menc- Io the Roman owupmim of Egypt - -

PAC!

I7

24

32

41

63

75

'78

89
Page-12
vi CONTENTS.
CHAPTER X.
Aboo—Simbil.—Egyplian conception: of the gods - . - -

CHAPTER XL
Ibreem.—Dirr.——Su1non—ankeh.—-Gnrfﬂoseyn ' - . -

CHAPTER XII.
Dendoor.—Kal£b'-eheh.—Biggeh.—Phinn—Leaving Nubia - -

CHAPTER XIII.
Kém Umboo.—Quarriea of Silaileh.—Adfoo.—Eiled1yia.—Old EGYPV-inn life.
—Isnn.—Armeut - - . . . . . -
CHAPTER XIV.
Tullu.—Eumpean travelers and naﬁveLAmbs—The Pain—The Rama-
sélun.—E1-Knrneh - - - . . . .
CHAPTER XV.
Tllnn.—01d Egyptian views of Death md Hannah—The PriesIs.—Imer-
menu—Tomb of Onirei -‘ - . - . . .
CHAPTER XVI.
Them—Tombs.—Mummies.—Medeenet Huboo.— Dayr 51 Bahree.— E1-
Kamac - - - - - - - - -
CHAPTER XVII.

Mlnuﬁctuxo. u Kennebn—Manners of (he crew.-—Excunion lo Abydua -

CHAPTER XVIII.

Benee Hann.—Mugoon.—-Pymnidsof Dashoor and Salim—Memphis.—
Mummy pim—Consecntiou or brutes - - — . .

CHAPTER XIX.

Visit to «he Pyramids—Ascem of the Great Pyramid—Interion—Tmﬁﬁons
Ind history about the Pymmids.-—The SphinL— Farewell to Ancient

CHAPTER XX.
Inundnion of :he N ile.—Funine in Egypt - - - - .
CHAPTER XXI.

Calm—Streets and banal—Mosquear—Cimdel.—Fete of the Birth of the
PmpheL—Enuance of the Mahhmil.—The Magician—Society in Clixo.
—Mr. Luna - - - - - . . .

PAGE

113

121

131

147

158

166

185

196

202

216

230

243
Page-13
viii connm‘s.

P A R T I I I .
BALESTINE AND ITS FAITH.
PAOI
CHAPTER I.
Entrance upon the Holy Iand.—Hebron.——Bethlehem - - ~ 375
CHAPTER II.

Elements of the religious life of the Hebrews at the time of the birth of

Christ - - - - . . . . . 333
CHAPTER III.

Jamaican—The English Million—Mosque of Oman—Jews’ Place of Wail-
ing—Valley of J ehoshnphaL—Greek ﬂre.—David'n Tomb and Cauaculum.
—Armenian ConvenL—Lepers.—Cave of Jeremiah—Environs - - 403

CHAPTER IV.

Bethany.—Plnin of J aricho.—Elisha’n Spring.—Jericho.—The Jordan—The

Dead Sam—Convent of Sanka Saba - - - - - 415
CHAPTER V.

Jeruualem.—Chuﬁ=h of the Holy Sepulchrer—Valley of Gihon.—Pool and
Fountain of Silurian—Tombs of the Pmpbew—Mount of Olives—Garden
of Gethsemane.—-—Tomho of the Kings—Governor's house - - 430

CHAPTER VI.

Samaritans—Simon Maxim—Wayside Scenery.—Jacob‘s Well at Sychar.—

Samaritan amazon—Sahara—Djeneen ‘ - - - “0
CHAPTER VII.

Pllin of Esdmélon.—Nnmeth.—Ride to Mount Cornish—Convent of Mount

Cnrmel.-—Acre.—Retum to Nmreth - - - - - 454
CHAPTER VIII.

Cam—Mount of the Beatimda—Tiberina.—Plnin of Gamma—Sum.
—Upper Valley of the Jordm—Pnniu—Leuving Plleatino - - 469
Page-14
conus'ra. vii

nan
CHAPTER XXII.
The Kareem - - - - . . . . 259
durum xxm.
Present condition of Egypt - - - . . . . 270
CHAPTER XXIV.
Gardens of Roda and Shoobm—HeliopoliL—Pelriﬁal forest—Tombs of the
MemIook kingx—The Nilometex.-—Lea.ving Cairo - - - 276
P A R T I I .
ENAI AND ITS FAITH.
CHAPTER I.
Moses before the Exodus—Route to the Red Seam-Cuncl-riding - - 287
CHAPTER II.
Desert traveL—The Red Sm—SuaPIAnding in Arabia—Wells or Moue- 293
CHAPTER III.
Journey Io Sinai - - - - - - - - 301
CHAPTER IV.
Convent of Mount Sinai—Ascent of Djebel MonsaPAsoenl of Horeb - 810
CHAPTER V.
Mona ll Monm Sinai - - - - - - - 318
CHAPTER VI.
Fm Simi to Aknbn - - - - - - ' 333
CHAPTER VII.
Fm Abbi w Petra - . - - - - 342
CHAPTER VIII.
Pm . . - . . . . . . 343
CHAPTER IX.

MouchL—anf‘mwdnefmnﬁetatm - - - 364
Page-15
coxnm. ix

P A R T I V .
gYRIA AND ITS FAITH.
’All
CHAPTER I.

Entrance upon the high Randi. of Swim—Nim‘rod‘s Tomb.—-Field of Dumas-
m—Damnacns 'and envhonL——Some characteristics of Mohammednnism.
~D-mucus u I residence - - . . . . 485

CHAPTER II.
Ain Fijji.—Zebdnny.—Baalbec‘—The Baku - - . . 502
CHAPTER III.

Crossing the Lebanon.~'l'he oedars.-Eden.—Journey Io Batman—Last
encampmem - - . . . . . . '5“

APIIIIIII - ~ . . . - . . . 51g
Page-16
Digmzed by ($00816
Page-17
“Theyere extremely religious, and surplus all men in the worship they render
tothe gods.” MI, I]. 3‘1.

\

“Wherefore they were highly celebrated by Apollo's oracle (recorded by Por-
phyriue), and preferred before ell other nations for teaching rightly ‘ thnt herd and
diﬂimlt my, that lemdelh to God end heppineee.‘ "

Crumb. Intellect“! Spawn, Book I. 4.

“For, as for the utterruoet antiquity, which is like Fame that muﬂles her held, and
telle tales, I cannot presume much of it; lbr I would not willingly imitate the
manner of those that describe mnpe, which, when they come to some fer countries,
whereof they have no knowledge, set down how there he greet wastes and desert:
there; so I am not apt to nﬂirm that they knew little, because what they knew in
little known to us.” Bum interrelation of Nat-n, ch V.
Page-18
PART I.

EGYPT AND ITS FAITH.
Page-19
EGYPT AND ITS FAITH.

 

CHAPTER I.
FIRST SIGHT OF AFRICA.—FIRST SIGHTS 1N AFRICA—ALEXANDRIA.

MY ﬁrst sight of Africa was on a somewhat lurid November evening,
when the descending sun marked out by its red light a group of purple
rocks to the westward, which had not been visible till then, and which
presently became again invisible when the sun had gone down behind
them, and the glow of the sky had melted away. What we saw was
the island of Zembra, and the neighboring coast of Tunis. Nothing in
Africa struck me more than this its ﬁrst phantom appearance amidst
the chill and gathering dusk of evening, and with a vast expanse of sea
heaving red between us and it.

My next sight of Africa was when I came on deck early on the
morning of the 20th of November. A Lybian headland was looming
to the south-east. Bitb bit, more land appeared, low and gray; then
the fragments united, and. we had before us a continuous line of coast,
level, sandy and white, with an Arab tower on a single eminence.
Twice more during the day we saw such a tower, on just such an
eminence. The sea was now of a milky blue, and lustrous, as if it
were one ﬂowing and heaving opal. Presently it became of the lightest
shade of green. When a tower and a ruined building were seen to-
gether, every one called out “Alexandria l" and we expected to arrive
by noon: but we passed the tower and ruins, and saw only a further
stretch of low and sandy coast. It was three o'clock before we were
in harbor.—-When we came on deck after dinner, we found that we
were waiting for a pilot; and that we ought to be growing impatient,
as there was only an hour of daylight left, and the harbor could not be
entered after dark. There was no response from a pilot-boat which
we hailed; and one of our boats was sent off to require the attendance
of the pilot, who evidently thought he could ﬁnish another piece of
business before he attended to ours. He was compelled to come; and
it was but just in time. The stars were out, and the last brilliant
lights had faded from the waters. before we anchored. As we entered
the harbor, there was to the south-west, the crowd of windmills which
are so strange an object in an African port: before us was the town,
with Pom ey’s Pillar rising behind the roofs: further north, the Pasha's
palace an hareem, with their gardens and rows of palms coming down

2
Page-20
18 um“ urn.

to the margin of the sea: further round, the lighthouse; and to the
east, at the point of the land, a battery. The Pasha’s men~of-war,
which do not bear well a noon-day examination, looked imposing
amidst the brilliant lights and deep shadows of evening, their red ﬂag,
with its crescent and single star, ﬂoating and falling in the breeze and
lull. But for the gorgeous light, there would have been nothing beau-
tiful in the scene, except the ag (the most beautiful in the world) and
the ﬁgure of our pilot as he stood robed, turbaned and gesticulating on
the paddle-box;-a perfect feast to western eyes: but the light shed
over the ﬂat and dreary prospect a beauty as home-felt as it does over
the gray rain-cloud when it brings out the bow. As we were turning
and winding into the harbor, a large French steamer was turning an
winding out—setting forth homewards—her passengers on deck, and
lights gleaming from her ports. Before we came to anchor, she was
aground; and sorry we were to see her lying there when we went
ashore.

Before our anchor was down, we had a crowd of boats about us.
containin a few European gentlemen and a multitude of screaming
Arabs. know no din to be compared to it but that of a frog concert
in a Carolina swamp. We had before wondered how our landing was
to be accomplished; and the spectacle of the departure of some of our
shipmates did not relieve our doubts. We could not pretend to lay
about us with stout sticks, as we saw some amiable gentlemen do.
purely from the strength of their philosophical conviction that this is
the only way to deal with Arabs. Mr. E. had gone ashore among the
ﬁrst. to secure rooms for us: and what we three should have done
with ourselves and our luggage without help, there is no saying. But
we had help. An English merchant of Alexandria kindly took charge
of us; put our luggage into one boat and ourselves into another, and
accompanied us ashore. The silence of our little passage from the
ship to the quay was a welcome respite: but on the quay we found
ourselves among a crowd of men in a variety of odd dresses, and boys
pushing their little donkeys in among us, and carts pulled hither and
thither—everybody vociferating and hustling in the starlight. Our
luggage was piled upon a long cart, and we followed it on foot: but
there was an immediate stoppage about some custom-house difﬁculty—
got over we know not how. Then the horse ran away, broke his
girths, and scattered some of our goods. At last, however, we achieved
the walk to our hotel—a walk through streets not narrow for an eastern
city. All the way we had glimpses of smoking householders in their
dim interiors, turbaned artisans, and yellow lamplight behind latticed
windows. The heat was oppressive to us, after our cool days at sea.
The rest of the evening was fatiguing enough.

The crowd of Bombay passengers hurrying over their preparations.
their letter-writing and their tea, in order to start for Cairo at nine
o’clock; the growling and snarling of the camels, loading in the
Square; the ﬂare of the cressets;—the heat, light, noise and hurry
were overpowering after the monotony of sea life. I sought repose in
letter-writing, and had nearly forgotten our actual position when I was
Page-21
mmnau. l9

spoken to by a departing ship-mate, and, looking up. saw a Greek
standing at my elbow, an Arab ﬁlling up the door-way, and a Nubian
nursemaid coming in for a crying child—Before ten o'clock, all was
comparatively quiet—the Square clear of omnibuses, camels, and the
glare of torches, and our hotel no longer a scene of crowding and con-
fusion. There was nothing to prevent our having a good night. in
preparation for our ﬁrst day of African sight-seeing.

When I looked out of my window early the next morning, I saw, at
the moment. nothing peculiarly African. The Frank Square is spa-
cious, and the houses large; but they would be considered shabby and
ugly anywhere else. The consular ﬂag-stares on the roofs strike the
eye; and the ﬂood of brilliant sun-light from behind the minaret made
the morning as little like England in November as could well be.
Presently, however, a string of camels passed through the square,
pacing noiselessly along. I thought them then, as I think them now,
after a long'acquaintanoe with them, the least agreeable brutes I know.
Nothing can be uglier, unless it be the ostrich; which is ludicrously
like the camel, in form, gait and expression of face. The patience of
the camel, so celebrated in books, is what I never had the pleasure of
seeing. So impatient a beast I do not know—growling, groaning and
fretting whenever asked to do or bear anything—looking on such oc-
easions as if itlonged to bite, if only it dared. Its malignant expression
of face is lost in pictures: but it may be seen whenever one looks for
it. The mingled expression of spite, fear and hopelessness in the face
of the camel always gave me the impression of its being, or feeli
itself, a damned animal. I wonder some of the old painters of hell di
not put a camel into their foreground, and make a traditional emblem
of it. It is true, the Arab loves his own camel, kisses its lips, hugs its
neck, calls it his darling and his jewel, and declares he loves it exactly
as he loves his eldest son: but it does not appear that any man's affec-
tion extends beyond his own particular camel, which is truly, for its
services, an inestimable treasure to him. He is moved to kick and
curse at any but the domestic member of the species, as he would be
by the perverseness and spite of any other ill-tempered creature. The
one virtue of the camel is its ability to work without water; but, out of
the desert, I hardly think that any rider would exchange the willin ,
intelligent and proud service of the horse for that of the camel, whie
objects to everything, and will do no service but under the compulsion
of its own fears.

When the camels had passed, some women entered the square from
diﬁ'erent openings. 1 was surprised to see their faces hardly covered.
They pulled their bit of blue rag ever, or half over, their faces when
any one approached them, as a matter of form; but in Alexandria, at
least, we could generally get a sight of any face we had a mind to see;
excepting, of course, those of mounted ladies. As we went up the
country, we found the women more and more closely veiled, to the
borders of Nubia, where we were again favored with a sight of the fe-
male countenance.

The next sight in the square was a hareem, going out for a ride-a
Page-22
20 smart use.

procession of ladies on asses—each lady enveloped in a sort of balloon
of black silk, and astride on her ass—her feet displaying a pair of bright
yellow morocco boots. Each ass was attended by a running footman;
and the oﬂicer of the hareem brought up the rear.

By this time, my friends were ready for a cup of coffee and a walk
before breakfast: and we went forth to see what we could see. After
leaving the square, we made our way through heaps of rubbish and
hillocks of dust to the new fortiﬁcations, passing Arab huts more sordid
and desolate-lookin than I remember to have seen in other parts of the
country. We met ewer blind and diseased persons than we expected ;
and I must say that I was agreeably surprised, both this morning and
throughout my travels in Egypt, by the appearance of the people.
About the dirt there can be no doubt—the dirt of both dwellings and
persons—and the diseases which proceed from want of cleanliness: but
the people appeared to us, there and throughout the country, sleek,
well-fed and cheerful. I am not sure that I saw an ill-fed person in all
Egypt. There is hardship enough of other kinds—abundance of
misery to sadden the heart of the traveler—but not that, as far as we
saw, of want of food. I am told, and no doubt truly, that this is partly
owing to the law of the Kurin by which every man is bound to share
what he has, to the last mouthful, with his brother in need; but there
must be enough, or nearly enough food for all, whatever he the law of
distribution. 0f the progressive depopulation of Egypt for many years
past, I am fully convinced; but I am conﬁdent that a deﬁciency of food
is not the cause, nor, as yet, a consequence. While I believe that
Egypt might again, as formerly, support four times its present popula-
tion,I see no reason to suppose, amidst all the misgovernment and
oppression that the people suffer, that they do not still raise food
enough to support life and health. I have seen more emaciated, and
stunted, and depressed men, women and children in a single walk in
England, than I observed from end to end of the land of Egypt. So
much for the mere food question. No one will suppose that in Egypt
a suﬁciency of food implies, as with us, a sufﬁciency of some other
things scarcely less important to welfare than food.

We saw this morning a sakia‘ for the ﬁrst time—little thinking how
familiar and interesting an object the sakia would become to us in the
course of three months, nor how its name would for ever after call up
associations of the ﬂowing Nile, and broad green ﬁelds, and thickets of
sugar-canes, and the melancholy music of the waterwheel, and the pic-
turesque ﬁgures of peasant children, driving the oxen in the shady
circuit of the weed-grown shed. This, the ﬁrst we saw, was a most
primitive aﬁ'air, placed among sand hillocks foul with dirt, and its
wooden cogwheels in a ruinous state. We presently saw a better one
in the garden of the German Consul. It was on a platform, under a
trellice of vines. The wheel, which was turned by a blind folded ox,
had rude earthen jars bound on its vanes, its revolutions emptying
these jars into a trough, from which the water was conducted to irrigate
the garden.

° Waterwheel.
Page-23
usurious. 21

In this garden, as in every ﬁeld and garden in Egypt, the ground was
divided oﬁ‘ into compartments, which are surrounded by little ridges,
in order to retain whatever water they receive. Where there is arti-
ﬁcial irrigation, the water is led along and through these ridges. and
distributed thus to every part. I found here the ﬁrst training of the
eye to that angularity which is the main characteristic of form in
Egypt. It seems to have been a decree of the old gods of Egypt that
angularity should be a prime law of beauty—and the decree appears to
have been undisputed to this day—and one of the most surprising
things to a stranger is to feel himself immediately falling into sympathy
with this taste, so that he ﬁnds in his new sense and ideas of beauty 3
ﬁtting avenue to the glories of the temples of the Nile.

The gardens of Alexandria looked rude to our European eyes; but
we saw few so good afterwards. In the damp plots grew herbs, and
especially a kind of mallow, much in use for soups: and cabbages, put
in among African fruits. Among great ﬂowering oleanders, marvel of
Peru, ﬁgs and oranges, were some familiar plants, cherished, I thought,
with peculiar care under the windows of the consular houses ;-—-monthly
roses, chrysanthemums, love-lies—bleeding, geraniums, rosemary, and,
of course, the African marigold. Many of these plots are overshadowed
by palms,-—and they form, in fact, the ground of the palm-orchards, as
we used to call them. Large clusters of dates were hanging from under
the fronds of the palms; and these were usually the most valuable pro-
duct of the garden. The consular gardens are not, of course, the most
oriental in aspect. We do not see in them, as in those belonging to
Arabs, thereservoir for Mohammedan ablution, nor the householder
on the margin winding on his turban after his bath, or prostrating him-
self at his prayers.

The contrast is great between these gardens and the sites of Cleo-
patra’s Needle and Pompey’s Pillar,—curiosities which need not be
described, as every one has seen them in engravings. The needle
stands on the burning sands, close to the new fortiﬁcation wall, whose
embankment is eighty feet high, and now rapidly inclosing the town.
The companion obelisk, which 'was offered to England, but not con-
sidered worth bringing away, is now buried in this embankment.
There it will not decay; for there is no such preservative as the sand
of Egypt. When. and under what circumstances, will it again see the
light? In a time when it may be recognized as an object known now?
or in an age so distant as that the process of veriﬁcation must be gone
over again? Every one now knows that these obelisks are of the time
of the early Pharaohs, some of whose names they bear inscribed; that
they stood originally at Heliopolis, and were transported to Alexandria
by the Caesars.

The pillar stands in a yet more desolate place. We reached it
through the dreariest of cemeteries, where all was of one dust-color,—
even to the aloe which was ﬁxed upon every grave. The graves were
covered with mortar, much of which was broken and torn away. A
Christian informant told us that this was done by foxes and dogs; but
a Mohammedan declared that such ravage was prevented by careful
Page-24
as nuns am.

watching. There is a rare old book which happily throws light on
what this pillar was. In the twelfth century, while the Crusaders were
ravaging Syria. a learned physician of Bagdad, named Abdallatil‘. visited
Egypt, and dwelt a considerable time there. He afterwards wrote an
admirable account of whatever he himself saw in the country; and his
work has been translated by some Arabic scholars. The best transla-
tion is by De Sacy (Paris, 18l0).—-Abdallatif tells us that the column
(now called by us Pompey's Pillar) which is so ﬁnely seen from the
sea. was called by the Arabs “ the pillar of the colonnades ;" that he
had himself seen the remains of above four hundred columns of the
same material, lying on the margin of the sea: and he tells us how they
came there. He declared that the governor of Alexandria, the oﬁcer
put in charge of the city by Saladeen. had overthrown and broken these
columns to make a breakwater! “This." observes Abdallatif. “ was
the act of a child. or of a man who does not know good from evil."
He continues, “I have seen also, round the pillar of the colonnades,
considerable remains of these columns; some entire, others broken.
It was evident from these remains that the columns had been covered
by a roof which they supported. Above the pillar is a cupola sup.
ported by it. I believe that this was the portico where Aristotle taught.
and his disciples alter him; and that this was the academy which
Alexander erected when he built the city, and where the library was
placed which Amrou burned by the permission of Omar." De Sacy
reminds us that the alleged destruction of this portico must have taken
place, if at all, at most thirty years before the visit of Abdallatif; so
that as “ all the inhabitants of Alexander, without exception,” assured
that traveler of the fact, it would be unreasonable to doubt it.1’ He
decides that here we have the far-famed Serapéum.—From the base of
the pillar the view was curious to novices. The fortiﬁcations were
rising in long lines, where groups of Arabs were at work in the crum-
bling, whitish, hot soil; and ﬁles of soldiers were keeping watch over
them. To the south-east, we had a ﬁne view of Lake Mareotis, whose
slender line of shore seemed liable to be broken through by the ﬁrst
ripple of its waters. The space between it and the sea was one ex-
panse of desolation. A strip of vegetatiou,—some marsh, some ﬁeld,
and some grove.—looked well near the lake; and so did a little settle-
ment on the canal, and a latteen sail, gliding among the trees.

We had a better view than this, one morning, from the fort on Mont
Cretin. I believe it is the best point for a survey of the whole district:
and our thinking so seemed to give some alarm to the Arabs, who
ceased their work to peep at us from behind the ridges, and watch what
we did with telescope, map and compass. The whole prospect was
bounded by waterr—by the sea and Lake Mareotis,-—except a little
space to the north-east; and that was hidden by an intervening minaret
and cluster of houses. Except where some palms arose between us
and Lake Mareotis to the south, and where the clustered houses of the
town stood up white and clear against the morning sky, there was no-

“ Abdallatif. Relation do l’Egypte. Litre I. ch. 4. 1- Appendix A.
Page-25
mussels. 28

thing around us but a hillocky waste, more dreary than the desert, be-
cause the dreariness here is not natural but induced—If we could have
stood on this spot no longerago than the times of the Ptolemies (a date
which we soon learned to consider somewhat modern) it would have
been more diﬁicult to conceive of the present desolation of the scene
than it now is to imagine the city in the days of its grandeur. On the
one hand, we should have seen, between us and the lake, the circus,
with the multitude going to and fro; and on the other, the peopled

nasia. Where Pompey’s Pillar now stands alone, we should have
seen the long lines of the colonnades of the magniﬁcent Serapéum.
0n the margin of the Old Port, we should then have seen the towers
of the noble causeway, the Heptastadium, which connected the island
of the Pharos with the mainland. The Great Harbor, now called the
New Port. lay afar this day, without a ship or boat within its circuit;
and there was nothing but hillocks of bare sand round that bay where
there was once a throng of buildings and of people. Thereabouts sto‘od
the temple of Arsinoé, and the theatre, and the inner palaces; and there
was the market. But now, look where we would. we saw no sign of
life but the Arabs at work on the fortiﬁcations, and a ﬁgure or two in
a cemetery near. The work of fortiﬁcation itself seems absurd, judg-
ing by the eye; for there appears nothing to take, and therefore nothing
to defend. Except in the direction of the small and poor-looking town,
the area within the new walls appears to contain little but dusty spaces
and heaps of rubbish. with a few lines of sordid huts, and clumps of
palms set down in the midst; and a hot cemetery or two, with its crum-
bling tombs. I have seen many desolate-looking places, in one country ,
or another; but there is nothing like Alexandria, as seen from a height,
for utter dreariness. Our friends there told us they were glad we staid a
few days, to see whatever was worth seeing, and be amused with some
African novelties; for this was the inhabitants’ only chance of inspiring.
any interest. Nobody comes back to Alexandria that can help it. after'; V
having seen the beauty of Cairo, and enjoyed the antiquities of Upper '
Egypt. The only wonder would be if any one came back to Alexan-
dria who could leave the country in any other way.

Before we quitted Mont Cretin this morning. we looked into a hol-
low where laborers were digging. and saw them uncover a pillar of
red granite,—shining and unblemished. Some were picking away at
the massive old Roman walls, for the sake of the brick. It is in such
places that the traveler detects himself planning wild schemes for the
removal of the dust, and the laying bare of buried cities all along the
valley of the Nile.

During the four days of our stay at Alexandria, we saw the usual
sights;—the Pasha’s palace; the naval arsenal : and the garden of the
Greek merchant where the Pasha goes often to breakfast; and we en-
joyed the hospitality of several European residents. We also heard
a good deal of politics ; not a word of which do I mean to write down.
There is so much mutual jealousy among the Europeans resident in
Egypt, and. under the inﬂuence of this jealousy, there is so little hope
of a fair understanding and interpretation of the events of the day, that
Page-26
24 nurses urn.

the only chance a stranger has of doing no mischief' is by reporting
nothing. I have my own impressions, of course, about the political
prospects of Egypt, and the character of its alliance with various Eu-
ropean powers; but while every word said by anybody is caught up
and made food for jealousy. and a plea for speculation on the future,
the interests of peace and good-will require silence from the passing
traveler, whose opinions could hardly, at the best. be worth the rancor
which would be excited by the expression of them.

 

CHAPTER II.

FROM ALEXANDRIA T0 CAIRO.—FIRST SIGHT OF THE PYRAMIDS.—-
PREPARATIONS FOR NILE VOYAGE

ON the 25th of November, we left Alexandria. rising by candle-light
at six, and seeing the glorious morning break by the time we were
dressed. Our days were now nearly eleven hours long: at the short-
est, they would be ten. We were not struck, as we expected to be,
by the shortness of the twilight. Instead of the immediate settling
down of darkness. after the disappearance of the sun, I found that!
could read small print for half an hour after sunset, in our most south-
erly latitude.

I do not remember to have read of one great atmospheric beauty of
Egypt ;—the aﬂer-glow, as we used to call it. I watched this nightly
for ten weeks on the Nile, and often afterwards in the desert, and was
continually more impressed with the peculiarity, as well as the beauty,
of this appearance. That the sunset in Egyptis gorgeous, everybody
knows; but Lfor one, was not aware that there is a renewal of beauty,
some time after the sun has departed and left all gray. This discharge
of color is here much what it is among the Alps, where the ﬂame
colored peaks become gray and ghastly as the last sunbeam leaves
them. But here, everything begins to brighten again in twenty min-
utes;—the hills are again purple or golden,—the sands orange,—the
palms verdant,—the moonlight on the water, a pale green ripple on a
lilac surface: and this after-glow continues for ten minutes, when it
slowly fades away.

Mr. E. had brought with him his noble dog Pierre, which created a
far greater sensation in Alexandria than we did. European men and
women are seen every day there; but so large a dog had probably
never been known in that region. Women and children, and even men,
ﬂed into their houses, or behind walls, at Pierre's approach, every
morning during our walks. Pierre was not safe. Between the jea-
lousy of the native dogs, the fears of the Arabs, and the perils of the
desert, Pierre had little chance of secure traveling; and so his master
sent him home. We left Alexandria without Pierre: but we had a
much better servant in the dragoman engaged there by Mr. E.,—Alee
Mustafa,—who traveled with us till we reached Alexandria again, the
Page-27
vonas 70 case. 25

next May, and did his duty by us admirably. He is a native Egyp-
tian, young and strong, able and experienced in his work, and faithful
and correct in his money transactions. We met with other traveling
parties as content with their dragomen as we were with ours: and I
at present remember only one which was cursed with a bad attendant.
When we consider what qualiﬁcations are requisite in the ofﬁce, we
must see that the dragomen must be a superior class of people. It
was one of my amusements to study all whom I met; and when I
saw what their knowledge of languages was,—-what their efﬁciency in
daily business, their zeal in traveling, and their familiarity with the
objects on route wherever we went, their temper in times of hurry
and disaster, their power of command co-existing with their diligence
and kindliuess in service, I felt that some of us might look very small
in our vocations, in comparison with our dragomen.

We proceeded in an omnibus to the Mahmoudieh Canal. where we
went on board the boat which was to carry us to Atfeh, at the junction
of the canal with the Nile. The boat was taken in tow by a smaller
steamer, named by a wag “ the little Asthmatic." We heard a good
deal of her ailments,—the cracks in her boiler, and so forth; so that
we hardly expected to reach Atfeh in due course.—The villas in the
neighborhood of Alexandria are pleasantly surrounded with gardens,
and fenced by hedges or palings hung with the most luxuriant creepers;
but the houses are of glaring white, and look dreadfully hot.—The
villages on the banks are wretched-looking beyond description; the
mud huts square, or in bee-hive form; so low and clustered and earthy,
that they suggest the idea of settlements of ants or beavers, rather than
of human beings. Yet we were every few minutes meeting boats
coming down from the country with produce,—various kinds of grain
and roots, in heavy cargoes. Some of these boats were plastered with
mud, like the houses; and so thickly that grass grew abundantly on
their sides.—On the heaps of grain were squatted mnﬁled women and
naked children; naked men towed the boats,—now on the bank. and
now wading in the mud; and muﬂled women came out of the villages
to stare. To-day there seemed to be no medium between wrapping
up and nakedness; but it became common, up the country, to see
women and girls covering their faces with great anxiety, while they
had scarcely any clothing elsewhere.

We saw the other extreme of dress in a passenger on board our
boat;—the chief eunuch of the royal hareem at Cairo. Neither his
beautiful dress,—of the ﬁnest cloth, amply embroidered,——nor his -
attendants and appliances could impress me with the slightest sense of
dignity in the case of this extraordinary-looking being. He was quiet
in his manners. conversed with apparent ease, said his prayers and
made his prostrations duly on the top of the kitchen, telling his beads
with his long and skinny ﬁngers; but his emaciation and ugliness
baffled all the usual associations with the outward signs of rank. I
could not think of him as an oﬂicial of high station.

This is the canal which, as everybody knows, cost the lives of above
twenty thousand people, from the pasha's hurry to have it ﬁnished, and
Page-28
26 IAI'I'EIN am.

the want of due preparation for such a work in such a country.
Without tools and sutﬁcient food, the poor creatures brought here by
compulsion to work died oﬂ' rapidly under fatigue and famine. Before
the improvements of the pasha are vaunted in European periodicals as
putting European enterprises to shame, it might be as well to ascertain
their cosy—in other things as well as money ;—-the taxes of pain and
death, as well as of piastres. which are levied to pay for the pasha’s
public works. There must be some ground for the horror which
impels a whole population to such practices as are every day seen in
Egypt, to keep out of the reach and the ken of govemment:-—-practices
such as putting out an eye, pulling out the teeth necessary for biting
cartridges, and cutting off a foreﬁnger, to incapacitate men for army
service. The fear of every other sort of conscription, besides that for
the supply of the army,- is no less urgent; and it is a common practice
for parents to incapacitate their children for reading and writing b

putting out an eye, and cutting of the foreﬁnger of the right han .
Any misfortune is to be encountered rather than that of entering the
pasha’s army, the pasha’s manufacturies, the pasha’s schools. This
can hardly be all baseless folly on the part of the people. If ques-
tioned, they could at least point to the twenty-three thousand deaths
Ehich took place in six months. in the making of the Mahmoudieh

anal.

The pasha is proud of this canal, as men usually are of achieve-
ments for which they have paid extravagantly. And he still brings
his despotic will to bear upon it, in deﬁance of nature and circumstance.
I was told today of his transmission of Lord Hardinge by it. when
Lord Hardinge and everybody else believed the canal to be impassable
from want of water. This want of water was duly represented to the
pasha: but as he still declared that Lord Hardinge should go by that
way and no meaner one, Lord Hardinge had only to wait and see how
it would be managed. He went on board the steamer at Alexandria.
and proceeded some way, when a bar of dry ground appeared extend-
ing across the canal. But this little inconvenience was to be no hope
diment. A thousand soldiers appeared on the banks, who waded to
the steamer, and fairly shouldered it, with all its passengers, and car-
ried it over the bar. The same thing happened at the next dry place,
and the next: and thus the pasha is able to say that he forwarded Lord
Hardinge by his own steamer on his own great canal.

Nothing can be more dreary than the scenery till within a short dis-
tance of Atfeh. The ﬁeld of Aboulreer was nothing but hillocky
desert, with pools in the hollows: and after that, we saw little but
brown mud banks, till we came to the acacias near Atfeh. It is a
pity that other parts of the canal banks are not planted in the same
way. Besides the beauty of the trees.—-to—day very pretty, with the
light pods contrasting with the dark foliage.—-the shade for man and
beast, and the binding of the soil by vegetation would be valuable.

It was dusk before we reached Atfeh. Some moonlight mingled
with the twilight, and with the yellow gleams which came from sordid
windows. seen through the rigging of a crowd of small vessels. There
Page-29
vanes to cam. 27

were prodigious bustle and vociferation while we were passing through
the lock, and getting on board the steamer which was to carry us to
Cairo. But by seven o'clock we were fairly off on the broad and
placid Nile. The moonlight was glorious; and the whole company
of passengers sat or lay on deck. not minding the crowding in their
enjoyment of the scene, till. the dews became so heavy as to send
down all who could ﬁnd room in the cabins.—I have a vivid recollec-
tion of that ﬁrst evening on the N ile,—an evening fall of enjoyment,
though perhaps every other evening I spent on it showed me more. I
saw little but the wide quiet river,--the broadest, I believe, that I had
ever been on; and a fringe of palms on the banks, with here and there
a Sheikh’s tomb' hiding among them. or a tall white minaret springing
above them.

Two ladies kindly offered me a place in their inner cabin, where I
could lie down and have the beneﬁtof an open window: but the place
was too unclean for rest. At 3 A. m, we went a-ground on a mud
bank. I saw the quivering poles of the Arab crew from my window,
and was confounded by the noise overhead—the luggage being shifted
with all possible outcry. We just ﬂoated for a minute, and then stuck
fast again. By the cessation of the noise, I presently found that the
matter was given up till daylight; and I slept for above an hour ;—a
very desirable thing. as these groundings made it appear uncertain
whether we should reach Cairo before another night.

When I went on deck, before seven, I found we were opposite Sais.
But there was nothing to be‘ done. No one could go ashore; and the
best consolation is that there is nothing to be seen there by those who
can only mourn over the mounds, and not penetrate them. A mob of
Arabs was brought down to our aid; and a curious scene was that of
our release. 0n deck our luggage was piled without any order; and
blankets were stuffed in among trunks and bags. From these blankets
emerged one fellow-passenger after another, till the set of unshaven and
unwashed gentry was complete. In the river was a long line of naked
Arabs, tugging and toiling and screaming till the vessel ﬂoated. When
we were once more steaming towards Cairo, and the deck was cleared,
and the wondrous atmosphere assumed all its glory, and the cool wind
breathed upon our faces, we presently forgot the discomforts of the
night, and were ready for a day of novelty and charm.

Breakfast was served on deck, under an awning; and greedy was it
enjoyed by one of the passengers—a catholic lady of rank. who was
traveling absolutely alone, and shifting for herself very successfully.
She helped herself to an entire chicken, every bone of which she picked.
While doing so, she was disturbed by the waiters passing behind her,
between the two tables: and she taught them, by vigorous punches,
what it was to interfere with her elbows while they were wanted for
cutting up her chicken. Immediately after this feat, she went to the
cabin, and kneeled down to her prayers, in the face of as many as

' These Sheikhs’ tombs are very like village ovens: square huts, with each I
white cupols rising from the walls.
Page-30
28 nurses mas.

chose to see. Between this countess and the eunuch, there was more
religious demonstration on board than we had been accustomed to see
in such places.

Till 3 r. 11., there was little variety in the scenery. I Was most
struck with the singular coloring ;—the diversity of browns. There
was the turbid river, of vast width, rolling between earthy banks; and
on these banks were mud villages, with their conical pigeon-houses.
The minarets and Sheikhs’ tombs were fawn-colored and white; and
the only variety from these shades of the same color was in the scanty
herbage, which was so coarse as to be almost of no color at all. But
the distinctness of outline, the glow of the brown, and the vividness of
light and shade, were truly a feast to the eye. At 3 o‘clock, when ap-
proaching Werdin, we saw large spreading acacias growing out of the
dusty soil; and palms were clustered thickly about the town; and at
last we had something beyond the banks to look at ;—a sandy ridge
which extends from Tunis to the Nile. When we had passed Wer-
din, about 4 P. 11., Mr. E. came to me with a mysterious countenance.
and asked me ifI should like to be the ﬁrst to see the Pyramids. We
stole past the groups of careless talkers, and went to the bows of the
boat, where I was mounted on boxes and coops, and shown where to
look. In a minute I saw them, emerging from behind a sand hill.
They were very small ; for we were still twenty-ﬁve miles from Cairo ;
but there could be no doubt about them for a moment; so sharp and
clear were the light and shadow on the two sides we saw. I had been
assured that I should be disappointed in the ﬁrst sight of the Pyramids ;
and I had maintained that I could not be disappointed. as of all the
wonders of the world, this'is the most literal. and. to a dweller-among
mountains, like myself, the least imposing. I now found both my in-
formant and myself mistaken. So far from being disappointed, I was
ﬁlled with surprise and awe: and so far was I from having antici-
pated what I saw, that I felt as ifI had never before looked upon any-
thing so new as those clear and vivid masses. with their sharp blue
shadows, standing ﬁrm and alone on their expanse of sand. In a few
minutes, they appeared to grow wonderfully‘larger; and they looked
lustrous and most imposing in the evening light. This impression of
the Pyramids was never fully renewed. I admired them every even-
ing from my window at Cairo; and I took the surest means of con-
vincing myself of their vastness, by going to the top of the largest; but
this ﬁrst view of them was the most moving: and I cannot think of it
now without emotion.

Between this time and sunset, the most remarkable thing was the
inﬁnity of birds. I saw a few pelicans and many cormorants; but the

‘ ﬂocks—I might say the shoals—of wild ducks and geese which peo-
pled the air, gave me a stronger impression of the wildness of the
country, and the foreign character of the scenery, than anything I had
yet seen. We passed by moonlight the spot where the great experi-
ment of the Barrage is to be tried; and here we could distinguish the
point of the Delta, and the junction of the other branch, and knew
when we had issued upon the single Nile. Soon after, the groves of
Page-31
ouno. 29

Shoobra—the Pasha’s country palace—rose against the sky, on the
eastern shore. Then there were glimmerings of white houses; and
then rows of buildings and lights which told of our approach to Boo-
lik. the port of Cairo. The palace of Ismael Pasha, who was burnt
at Sennaar twenty-nine years ago. rose above the bank ; and then there
was a blaze of cressets, which showed where we were to land. A
carriage from the Hotel d'Orient awaited our party; and we were
driven, under an avenue of acacias, a mile or two to Cairo. By the
way. we saw some truly Arabian dwellings by torchlight, which made
us long for the marrow.

In the morning I found that my windows looked out upon the Ez-
bekeeyeh—the great Square—all trees and shade. this sunny morning;
and over the tree tops rose the Pyramids, apparently only a stone’s
throw off, though in fact more than ten miles distant. A low canal
runs round the Square,just under my windows ; and on its bank was
a striking group—a patriarchal picture ;—an Arab leading down his
ﬂock of goats to water. The sides of this canal were grass-grown; ,
and the interibr of the Square, the area of 400,000 feet within the belt
of trees, was green with shrubs, ﬁeld-crops. and gardens. While I
was.gazing upon this new scene, and amusing myself with the ap-
pearance and gestures of the people who went by on foot, on asses, or
on camels, Mr. Y. and Mr. E. were gone to Boolik, to see about a
boat which we had heard of as likely to suit us for our voyage up to
the First Cataract. At breakfast they brought us the news that they
had engaged the boat, with its crew. We afterwards mounted don-
keys. and rode of to Boolik to examine this boat, which has the repu-
tation of being the best on the Nile. ‘

As our thoughts and our time were much engaged with the antici-
pation of our voyage and with preparations for it, so that we did not
now see much of Cairo. or open our minds thoroughly to what we did
see,I shall say nothing here of the great Arabian city. With me it
stands last in interest, as latest in time. of the sights of Egypt: and any
account that I can give of it will be the more truthful for coming in its
right place,—after the cities of the ancient world.

We found on board our dahabieh the old American merchant to
whom it belong9,—his tawny ﬁnger graced by a magniﬁcent diamond
ring. The Rais,—the captain of the crew, who is responsible for the
safety of the boat,—-was in waiting to take directions from us Oout
some additional accommodation. We liked this man from ﬁrst to last.
His countenance struck me this morning as being ﬁne, notwithstanding
a slight squint. It had much of the pathetic expression of the Arab
countenance, with strong sense, and, on occasionrabundance of ﬁre.
His caution about injuring the boat, made him sometimes appear indo-
lent when we wanted to push on; and he, seeming to indulge us, would
yet moor within half—an-hour: but he worked well with the crew at
times,—taking an oar, and handling the ropes himself. For many an
hour of our voyage, he sat on the gunwale, singing to the rowers some
mournfnl song, to which they replied in a chorus yet more mournful.
The manners of this man were as full of courtesy and kindness as we
Page-32
80 suntan Lin.

almost invariably found the manners of the Arabs to be; and there was
even an unusual degree of the oriental dignity in his bearing.

The boat was so clean that there was no occasion for us to wait for
the usual process of sinking,——to drown vermin. The few additions
and alterations necessary could easily be made while we were buyin
our stores; and, in fact, we were off in ﬁve days. Our deck afforded
a walk of twelve paces, when the crew were not rowing: and this
spacious deck was covered with an awning. The ﬁrst cabin was quite
a saloon. It had a continuous row of windows, and a deewiu along
each side; on the broadest of which the gentlemen's beds were made
up at night. We had bookshelves put up here; and there was ample
closet accommodationpfor medicines, pickles, tools, paper and string.
6w. In the inner cabin, the narrow deewins were widened by a sort
of shelf put up to contain the bedding of Mrs. Y. and myself. The
ﬂoor and ceiling were painted blue, orange and green, and the many
windows had Venetian blinds. It was a truly comfortable chamber,
which we inhabited with perfect satisfaction for many weeks.

The bargain made, the gentlemen and Ales were much engaged
every day in laying in stores. Matresses and spices, wine and
crockery, maccaroni, camp-stools, biscuits, candles, a table, fruit,
sponges, ssucepans, soap, cordage, tea and sugar:—here are a few
items of the multitude that had to be attended to. Every morning. the
gentlemen were off early to the stores; and the time they gave to sight-
seeing with Mrs. Y. and me was accepted as a great favor. Active as
we thought them, it was an amusement to us to see that it was possible
to be more active still. A young Scotchman who was at our hotel,
with a sister and two friends, was always before us, however early we
might be, and obtained the first choice of everything, from the dahabieh
herself to the smallest article she carried. And all this activity and
shrewdness lay under a pale young face, a quiet voice and languid
manner, betokening poor health. if not low spirits. 0n the night of
our arrival at Cairo, we did not go to bed till past midnight; and our
gentlemen were out at ﬁve to see about the dahabieh,—knowing that
the competition for boats was then very keen: but the Scotchman had
been out at four, and had seen and declined the dahabiehbefore my
ﬁ'iends reached Boolik. Whenever we bought any 'article, we found
that our Scotch neighbor had had his choice before us. We seldom went
intoQte store where we obtained almost everything but he was sitting
there, tasting wines or preserves, or handling utensils, as if he had been
a furnituremonger all his life. It was presently apparent that he was
bent on getting off before us,—on obtaining a good start up the river;
and it is not to be denied that this roused the combativeness of some
of our party; and that our preparations were pressed forward with
some view to the question whether the English or Scotch party would
get the start. The expectation was that the Scotch would sail on
Tuesday, December lst, and an American party on the same day;
while we could not get of till the Wednesday morning, though taking
up our abode on boanl our dahabieh on the Tuesday evening. We
were advised to do this, that we might not depart unfurnished with
Page-33
runasnons son an: NILE vovses. 31

some essential but forgotten article, as was the case with a party who
set sail with a fair wind, and were carried exulting up the river for
twenty miles, when they found they had no candles. To our surprise,
the Scotch party appeared at the late dinner on Tuesday; and when
we accompanied the ladies to their rooms afterwards, to see the shady
bonnets they were making for tropical wear, we found they were
waiting for the washerman, who had disappointed them of their clothes.
So we left the hotel before them.

It was bright moonlight when we set off for Boolik,—a curious
cavalcade. Of course, we were on donkeys; as were such of our
goods as had not been removed before. The donkey boys carried—
one. my desk, another, the arrow-root, and a third, the chocolate. It
was a merry ride, under the acacias. whose ﬂickering shadows were
cast across the road by theclear moon. The tea-things were set in
the cabin when we arrived. There was less confusion on board than
might have been expected; and we had a comfortable night.

Our crew consisted of fourteen, including the Rais. Of these, ﬁve
were Nubians, and the rest Cairenes. We had besides, our dragoman,
Alec, and his assistant, Hasan; and the cook,—a grotesque and anus-
ii personage. The hire of the boat and crew, who provided then-
se ves with food, was 401. per month. Times are changed since some
acquaintance of ours went up to the Second Cataract, two years since,
Ru 121. Those of our crew who aﬁ'orded us the most amusement
were some of the Cairenes: but we liked best the quiet and peaceable
Nubians. When we set off the whole crew messed together. sitting
on their haunches in a circle round their pan of lentils or dourrha pot-
tage. But before we returned, the Cairenes had all quarreled; and
the ﬁve Nubians were eating together, as amicably as ever, while each
Cairene was picking his bread by himself.

When I came on deck in the morning, I found that we were not to
start till the afternoon, and that we must put up with extraordinary
confusion till then. There was abundant employment for us all, how-
ever, and after breakfast, the gendemenvwent up to the city, to make
some more purchases, and Mrs. Y. and I sat on deck, under the am
ing, making a curtain for the cabin, a table-cover, &c. The doings of
the Arabs on shore were amusing and interesting enough. Among
others, I saw a blind man bringing, us he would say, his donkey down
to drink; but the donkey led the men. The creature went caﬂfully
down the steep and rough bank, and the man followed, keeping his
hands on its hind quarters, and scarcely making a false step. The
Scotch party came down, in the course of the morning. and presently
put 06', and went full sail up the river. The American boat was. I
believe, already gone. Soon after three, Alec/announced that the last
crate of fowls was on board; the signal was given, and away we went.
Page-34
32 ass-rum use.

CHAPTER III.

NILE INCIDENTS.—CREW.—BIRDS.——FACE OF THE COUNTRY—THE
HEAVENS.—TOWN S AND SHORES, BETWEEN CAIRO AND ASYOOT.

As we swept up the broad river, we passed some ﬁne houses, shel-
tered by dark masses of acacias; and presenting. to the river, spacious
overhanging balconies, and picturesque water-wheels. My friends
said this was very like the Bosphorus. Presently. Cairo arose in the
distance; backed by the white citadel and the yellow range of the Mo-
kuttam hills, with their ﬁnely broken outline. On the western shore
was El Geezeh, with its long range of hospital buildings. relieved by
massy foliage, behind which towered the Pyramids; and further on
were more Pyramids, lessening in the distance. We were aground
once and again within an hour; and while we were at dinner, we drove
upon a shoal with a great shock. This was not the way to overtake
the Scotch party, whose boat could not be supposed ever to get aground;
and our Rais was informed that if he struck again, he should be basti-
nadoed. The wind was too fresh to allow of our dining on deck; and
the sun was declining behind the palms when we went down to the
cabin. When we came up again. the yellow glow remained, while the
rich foliage of the eastern shore was quivering in the moonlight. Jupi-
ter was as lustrous as if there had been no moon. The breeze now
fell, now rose; and the crew set up their wild music.—the pipe and
drum, with intervals of mournful song.

I do not know whether all the primitive music in the world 1s in the
minor key: but I have been struck by its prevalence among all the
savage, or half-civilized, or uneducated people whom I have known.
The music of Nature is all in the minor key ,—the melodies of the
winds, the sea, the waterfall, birds, and the echoes of bleating ﬂocks
among the hills: and human song seems to follow this lead. till men
are introduced at once into the new world of harmony and the know-
ledge of music in the major key. Our crew sang always in unison.
and had evidently no conception of harmony. I often wished thatI
could sing loud enough to catch their car, amidst their clamor, that I
might see whether my second would strike them with any sense of
harmony: but their overpowering noise made any such attempt hope-
less. We are accustomed to ﬁnd or make the music which we call
Spirit-stirring 1n the major key: but their spirit-stirring music, set up
to encourage them at the car, is all of the same pathetic character as
the most doleful, and only somewhat louder and more rapid. They
kept time so admirably, and were so prone to singing, that we longed
to teach them to substitute harmony for noise, and meaning for mere
sensation. The nonsense that they sing is provoking. When we had
grown sad under the mournful swell of their song, and were ready for
Page-35
‘ Ta}. man. 33

any wildness of sentiment, it was vexatious to learn from Alec what
they were singing about. Once it was " Put the saddle on the horse.
Put the saddle on the horse." And this was all. Sometimes it was
“ Pull harder. Pull harder." This was expanded into a curious
piece of Job's comfort, one evening when they had been rowing all
day, and must have been very weary. “ Pull hard: pull harder. The
nearer you come to Alexandria, the harder you will have to pull. God
give help i" Another song might be construed by some vigilant peo-
ple near the court to have a political meaning. “ We have seen the
Algerine bird singing on the walls of Alexandria." Another was,
“The bird in the tree sings better than we do. The bird comes down
to the river to wash itself." The concluding song of the voyage was
the best, as to meaning, though not as to music,—in which I must say
I preferred the pathetic chaunt about the horse and saddle. As we
were approaching Cairo on our return, they sang “ This is nearly our
last day on the river, and we shall soon be at the ‘city. He who is
tired of rowing may go ashore, and sit by the sakia in the shade." I
may observe that if the dragoman appears unwilling to translate any
song, it is as well not to press for it; for it is understood that many of
their words are such as it would give European ears no pleasure to
hear. .

The water-wagtails were very tame, we observed already. They
ran about on the deck, close to our feet as we sat, and looked in at our
cabin windows in the most friendly manner. Next morning, we began
to acquire some notion of the multitude of birds we were to see in
Egypt; a notion which, I think, could hardly be obtained anywhere
else. Go a spit of sand, I saw, when I came forth, a ﬂock of pelicans
which deﬁed counting, while a ﬂight, no less large, was hovering
above. A heron was standing ﬁshing on another point; clouds of
pigeons rose above every group of dwellings and clump of palms, and
multitudes of geese occupied the air at various heights—now in strings ‘
which extended almost half across the sky, and‘ now furling and un-
furling their line like an immeasurable penuon. The birds of Egypt did
not appear to us to be in great variety, or remarkable beauty; but from
their multitude, and being seen in all their wildness, they were every-
where a very interesting feature of the scenery. The ostrich I never
saw, except tame, in a farmyard, though we had ostrich’s eggs in Nu-
bia. We came upon an eagle here and there, and always where we
could most wish to see one. Sometimes. when in the temples. and
most interested in the monuments, I caught myself thinking of home,
and traced the association to the sparrows which were chirping over-
head. I found swallows' nests in these temples, now and then. in a
chink of the wall, or a recess of roof or niche. A devout soul of an
old Egyptian, returning from its probation of three thousand years,
would see that “the sparrow had found a house. and the swallow a
nest for herself, where she might lay her young;" even the altars of
the Lord God, so sacred once to the most imposing worship the world
ever saw. Vultures are not uncommon. I used to see them some-
times during my early walk on shore, busy about the skull of some

3
Page-36
34 names It".

dead horse or other carcass. The crested wood-pecker was often a
pretty object among the moumful piles of ruins at Thebes or else-
where, hopping about so spruce and gay! Where the Arabian hills
approached the river, or the shores presented perpendicular rocks,
long rows of cormorants sat perched before their holes. as still and
staid as so many hermits in contemplation. On every islet and jutting
point were ﬂocks of pelicans. whose plumage looked snow-white when
set off by a foil of black geese; and now and then. a single bird of this
tribe might be seen in the early morning, balancing itself on the little
billows, and turning its head about in the coyest manner. to prevent its
long beak touching the water. The ibis is elegant in form. and most
delicate in plumage. as every one knows who has stroked its snowy
feathers. Itlooked best when standing under the banks, or wading
among the reeds in a cove. It looked most strange and out of place
when perched on the back of a buffalo, as I occasionally saw it. We
once saw ﬁve buﬁ'alo .in one ﬁeld, with each a delicate white ibis
perched on its back. And from the nose of one of these buffalo two

little birds were at the same time picking insects, or something else that ‘ i'

they relished. , ,

As to the birds which have such a mysterious connection with the
sleeping crocodile, I can give no new information about them. I can
only say that on almost every occasion of our seeing a crocodile, two
or three of these birds were standing beside him; and that I never saw
them ﬂy away till he had moved. It is believed in the country that
these birds relieve the crocodile of the little leeches which infest his
throat. and that they keep watch while he sleeps on the sand and give
him warning to escape on the approach of danger. What the crocodile
does for the birds in return, we never heard. As for the pigeons, they
abound beyond the conception of any traveler who has not seen the
pigeon ﬂights of the United States. They do not here, as there, dark-
en the air in an occasional process of migration, breaking down young
trees on which they alight, and lying in heaps under the attack of a
party of sportsmen, but they ﬂourish everywhere as the most proliﬁc
of birds may do under the especial protection of man. The best idea
that a stranger can form of their multitude is by supposing such a bird

pulation as that of the doves of Venice inhabiting the whole land of
Egypt! The houses of the villages throughout Egypt are surmounted
by a sort of battlements built for the pigeons, and supplied with fringes
of boughs, inserted, in several rows to each house, for the birds to rest
on. The chief object is the dung, which is required for manure for
the garden, and for ,other purposes; but it is a mistake to say that the
inhabitants do not eat them. They are taken for food, but not to such
an extent as to interfere with the necessary supply of dung. One of
our party occasionally shot a few wild ones, near the villages, and he
met with no hinderance. But,iti,was otherwise with our Scotch friend.
Though he had asked leave, and believed he had obtained it, to let ﬂy
upon the pigeons in a village, the inhabitants rose upon him. and his
Rais had some diﬁiculty in securing his safe return to his boat. He
did it by a device which his employer was shocked to hear of after--
Page-37
- The ms. 35

wards. He declared our friend to be the Pasha’s dentist! To form a
notion of the importance of this functionary', it is necessary to remem-
her that the pasha’s having a dentist is one of the most remarkable
signs of our times. That a Mohammedan ruler should have permitted
his heard to be handled is a token of change more extraordinary than
the adoption of the Frank dress in‘Turkey, or the introduction of wine
at Mohammedan dinners ;' and the man who was permitted by the Pa-
sha to touch his beard must be'regarded throughout the country as a
person inestimably powerful with his Highness. Such a personage
was our Scotch friend compelled to appear for some way up the river,
and very reluctant he was to bear the dignity to which his assent had
not been asked. A pretty bird, of the kingﬁsher kind apparently.
colored black, gray and tawny, was ﬂitting about on the shore when I
took my ﬁrst walk on shore this morning. And I think I have now
mentioned nearly all the birds 'we observed in the course of our voyage.
Our object. like that of Egyptian travelers generally, 'was to sail up
the river as fast as the wind would carry us, seeing by the way only
as much as would not interfere with the progress of the b'oa't'.“ It was
the season when the north wind prevailed; and this advantage was not
to be triﬂed with in a voyage'of a thousand miles, certain as we were
of the help of the current to bring us back. We were therefore to
explore no pyramids or temples on our way up; and‘ to see only so
much of the country as we could get a glimpse of on "occasion of the
failure of the “wind, or other accidental delays. To this there was no
objection in our minds; for we found at once that in going up the Nile
in any manner we should meet With as much novelty and interest as
we could hear. The face of the country was enough at one time. To
have explored its monuments immediately would have been too much.
Moreover, there‘ was a great advantage in going up quickly while the
river was yet high enough to aﬁ'or 'some view of the country. In
returning. we 'found such a change produced by the sinking of the
waters only a few feet, that we felt that travelers going up late in the
season can hardly be said to have seen the country from the river. At
all times. the view of the interior from the Nile must be very imper-
fect, and quite insuﬂicient to justify any decision against the beauty of
the great valley. This arises from, the singular structure of the coun-
Everywhere else, where ariver ﬂows through the centre of a val-

ley, the land either slopes from the base of the hills down to the river,
or it is level. In Egypt, on the contrary, the land rises from the
mountains up to the banks of the Nile: and where. as usually happens,
the banks are higher than the eye of the spectator on the deck of his
boat, all view of the interior. as far as the hills, is precluded. He
sees nothing but the towns, villages, and palm-groves on the banks, and
the mountains on the horizon. My attention had lwon turn-ml upon
this point before I went by the complaints of some n'utlt'rs of Eastern
travels that, after all their reading. they knew no more. what the liuyp-
tian valley looked like than if it had never been vism-(l. As this lull-
ure of description appeared to regard Egypt alone, llturt' must he sumo
peculiar cause for it: and thus we found it. The remedy was, of

34"
Page-38
36, EASTERN LIFI.

course, to go ashore as often as possible, and to mount every practica-
ble eminence. I found this so delightful and every wide view that I
obtained included so much that was wonderful and beautiful. that mount-
ing eminences became an earnest pursuit with me. Icarried compass
and note-book, and noted down what I saw. from eminence to emi-
nence, alon the whole valley. from Cairo to the Second Cataract.
Sometimes looked abroad from the top of a pylon; sometimes from
a rock on the banks; sometimes from a sandy ridge of the desert;
sometimes from a green declivity of the interior; once from a mountain
above Thebes, and once from the summit of the Great Pyramid. My
conclusion is thatI differ entirely from those who complain of the
sameness of the aspect of the country. The constituent features of
the landscape may be more limited in number than in other tracts of
country of a thousand miles: but they are so grand and so beautiful,
so strange, and brought together in such endless diversity, that I cannot
conceive that any one who has really seen the country can complain

. of its monotony. Each panoramic survey that I made is now as dis-

tinct in my mind as the imagesI retain of Niagara, Iona, Salisbury
Plain, the Vaiais, and Lake Garda.

Our opportunities of going ashore were not few, even at the beginning
of our voyage. when the wind was fair, and we sailed on, almost continu-
ously, for three days. In the early mornings,one of the crew was sent
for milk, and he was to be taken up at a point further on. And if, towards

‘ night, the Rais feared a rock, or a windy reach ahead. he would moor at
sunset; and this allowed us nearly an hour before it was dark enough for
us to mind the howling jackals. When the wind ceasedto befriend us,
the crew had to track almost all day, following the bends of the river:
and we could either follow these also, or strike across the ﬁelds to some
distant point of the bank. And when on board, there was so much to
be seen on the ordinary banks that I was rarely 1n the cabin. Before
breakfast. I was walking on the deck. After breakfast. I was sewing,
reading. or writing. or idling on deck under the shade of the awning.
After dinner we all came out eagerly, to enjoy the last hour of sun-
shine, and the glories of the sunset and the after- -glow, and the rising
of the moon and constellations. And sorry was I every night when
it was ten o ’clock, and I must go under a lower roof than that of the
dazzling heavens. All these hours of our ﬁrst days had their ample
amusement from what we saw on the banks alone, ytill we could pene-
trate further.

There were the pranks of the crew, whose oddities were unceasing,
and particularly rich in the early morning. Then it was that they
mimicked whatever they saw us do,—sometimes for the joke, but as
often with the utmost seriousness. I sometimes thought that they
took certain of our practices for religious exercises. The solemnity
with which one or another tried to walk the deck rapidly, to dance,
and to skip the rope, looked like this. The poor fellow who laid
hands on the skip ing-rope paid (he probably thought) the penalty of
his Imp iety Atptlie ﬁrst attempt, down he came, ﬂat on his face. If
Mr. Ep lookedA through his glass, some Ibraheem or Mustafa would
Page-39
'I'Bl sun. 87

snatch up an oar for a telescope, and see marvellous things in the plain.
If, in the heat, either of the gentlemen nodded over his book,’ half the
crew would go to sleep instantly, peeping every moment to see the
effect—Then, there were the veiled women coming down to the river
to ﬁll their water-pots. Or the men, at prayer-time, performing their
ablutions and prostrations. And there was the pretty sight of the pre-
paration of the drying banks for the new crop ;—the hoeing with the
short. heavy antique hoe. And the harrow, drawn by a camel. would
appear on the ridge of the bank. And the working of the Shadoofs'
was perpetual. and alWays interesting. Those who know what the
shadoof is like, may conceive the picture of its working :—the almost
naked Arabs,—usually in palm—lowering and raising their skin
buckets by the long lever overhead, and emptying them into the trough
beside them, with an observance of time as regular as in their sing-
ing. Where the bank is high, there is another pair of shadoofs at
work above and behind : and sometimes a third. before the water can
be sent ﬂowing in its little channels through the ﬁelds.—Then. there
were the endless manceuvres of innumerable birds, about the islets
and rocks: and a buﬂ'alo, here and there, swimming from bank to
bank, and ﬁnding it, at last, no easy matter to gain the land—Then,
there was the ferryboat, with its ragged sail, and its motley freight of
tnrbaned men, veiled women, naked children, brown sheep, frightened
asses, and impermrbable buffalo.—Then, there were the long palisades
of sugar-canes edging the banks; or the steep slopes, all soft and
bright with the springing wheat or the bristling lupins. Then. there
were the villages, with their somewhat pyramidal houses, their clouds
of pigeons, and their shelter of palms: or, here and there, a town, with
its minarets rising out of its cincture of acacia. And it was not long
before we found our sight sharpened to discern holes in the rocks. far
or near:-—holes so squared at the entrance as to hint of sculpture or
painting within.—And then, as the evening drew on, there was the
sinking of the sun, and the eomin out of the colors which had been
discharged by the glare in the mid le of the day. The vast and dreary
and hazy Arabian desert became yellow, melting into the purple hills;
the muddy waters took a lilac hue; and the shadows of the sharp—cut
banks were as blue as the central sky. As for the moon, we could,
for the ﬁrst time in our lives, see her the ﬁrst nightg—the slenderest
thread of light, of cup-like form, visible for a few minutes after sun-
set; the old moon being so clearly marked as to be seen by itself after
the radiant rim was gone. I have seen it behind a palm, or resting on
the ridge ofa mountain like a copper ball. And when the fuller moon
came up from the east, and l, forgetting the clearness of the sky, have
been struck by the sudden dimness, and have looked up to watch her
passing behind a cloud, it was delicious to see. instead of any cloud,
the fronds of a palm waving upon her disk. One nighL I saw an ap
pearance perfectly new to me. No object was perceptible on the high
black eastern bank, above and behind which hung the moon: but in

’ Pokendbudaﬁxnin'ngm.
Page-40
38 Ian!“ use.

her golden track on the dimpled waters were the shadows of palms,
single and in clusters. passing over swiftly.—" authentic tidings of inn
visible things.” And then, there was the rising of Orion. I have said
that the constellations were less conspicuous than at home. from the
universal brilliancy of the sky: but Orion shone forth, night by night,
till the punctual and radiant apparition became almost oppressive to
the watching sense. Icame at last to know his ﬁrst star as it rose
clear out of the bank. He never issued whole from a haze on the
horizon, as at home. As each star rose, it dropped a duplicate upon
the surface of the still waters: and on a calm night. it was hard to say
which Orion was the brighten—And how diﬁerent was the wind from
our cloud-laden winds in England! Except that it carried us on. I did
not like wind in Egypt. The palms. bowed from their graceful height,
and bent all one way. are as ugly as trees can be: and the dust ﬂies in
clouds, looking like smoke or haze on land, and settling on our faces.
even in the middle of the stream. Though called sand, it is, for the
most part, mere dust from the limestone ranges, forming mud when
moistened. The wind served, however, to show us a sand-pillar now
and then, like a column of smoke moving slowly along the ground.
On this second day of our voyage, when we were approaching Beni—
sooeef, the wind made ugly what on a calm evening would have been
lovely. A solitary house. In the midst of a slip of alluvial land, all
blown upon with dust, looked to us the most dreary of dwellings.
But the latteen sails on the river were a pretty feature.—one or two at
a time, winding in and out, with the bends of the stream” We saw
one before as near Benisooeef, this day. It proved to be our Scotch
friends. Our boat beat his in a strong wind; and we swept past in
good style,—the gentlemen uncapping and bowing; the ladies waving
their handkerchiefs. I had no idea that the racing spirit had entered
into them, till one of the ladies told me, the next time we met, “ We
were so mortiﬁed when you passed us. “’

Benisooeef Is about eighty miles from Cairo: a good progress for
twenty-three hours '—It Is the largest town in Upper Egypt: but it
does not look very imposing from the river. Two or three minaret!
rise from it; and there is one rather good-looking house. which the
Pasha inhabits when he comes. Its aspect was pretty as we looked
back to it from the south.

The wind carried us on towards the rocky region where our careful
Rais would retard our progress by night, though we had a glorious
lamp in the moon, the whole night through. We had a rocky shore
to the east this afternoon,—the Arabian mountains approaching the
river: and in the early morning, we passed the precipitous clitfs, on
whose ﬂat summit stands the Coptic convent of “Our Lady Mary the
Virgin." The forms of these limestone cliﬂ's are most fantastic; and
fantastic was the whole scene ;—-the long rows of cormorants in front
of their holes,—a sort of burlesque upon the monks in their cells
above; the unconnected ﬂights of steps here and there on the rocks ,
the women and naked children on the ridge, giving notice to the beg-
ging monks of our approach! and the monks themselves, leaping and
Page-41
'rns mu. 39

racing down the precipice, and then, two of them, racing through the
water, struggling with the strong current, to board us for baksheesh.
The one who succeeded was quite satisﬁed, in the midst of his panting
and exhaustion, with ﬁve paras‘ and an empty bottle. He waited ‘a
little, till we had gone about a mile, in order to have the help of the
current, and then swam OE to his convent.

We passed the pretty town of Minyeh about noon; and then entered
upon sugar districts so rich as to make one speculate whether this
might not be. some day, one of the great sugar-producing regions of
the world. The soil is very rich, and irrigated by perpetually recur
ring shadoofs: and the crops of canes on the ﬂats between the rocks
and the river were very ﬁne, and extending onwards for some days
from this time. The tall chimneys of the Rauda sugar manufactory
stood up above the wood on a promontory, looking very strange amidst
such a scene.—On our return, we visited the sugar manufactory at
Hon. and learned something of the condition and prospects of the
manufacture. The Hou establishment belongs to Ibraheem Pasha,
whom we met there at seven in the morning. It isiquile new; and a
crowd of little children were employed in ,the unﬁnished part, carrying
mortar in earthen bowls for 1d. per day. The engineers are French,
and the engine, one hundred-and-twenty horse power, was made at
Paris. The managers cannot have here the charcoal they use in
France for clarifying the juice. From the scarcity of wood, charcoal is
too dear; and burnt bones are employed instead,—answering the pur-
pose very well. We saw the whole process, which seemed cleverly
managed; and the gentlemen pronounced the quality of the sugar good.
An Englishman employed there said, however, that the canes were
inferior to those of the West Indies, for want of rain. There were a
hundred people at work in this establishment; their wages being. he-
sides food, a piastre and a quarter (nearly 3d.) per day. If, however,
the payment of wages is managed here as I shall have to show it is
usually done in Egypt, the receipts of the work-people must be con-
sidered much less than this. We heard so much or the complaints of
the people at having to buy, under compulsion. coarse and dear sugar.
that it is clear that much improvement in management must take place
before Egypt can compete with other sugar-producing countries: but
still. what we saw of the extensive growth of the cane, and the quality
of the produce. under great disadvantages, made us look upon this as
one of the great future industrial resources of Egypt.

The next morning, we could still distinguish the tall chimney of
Rauda. We had been at anchor undera bank all night, the Rais being
in fear of a rock a-head. The minarets of Melawee were on a ﬂat on
the western bank. some way before us: and between us and them, lay
the caves of Bones Baum—those wonderful repositories of monu-
mental records of the old Egyptians, which we were to explore on our
return, but must now pass by, as if they were no more than what they
looked.—mere apertures in the face of the mountains.

‘ F ire paras are a {arthing and one-ﬁlth.
Page-42
40 ns'rsrm Lin.

The crew were tracking this morning. for the. ﬁrst time;——stepping
along at a funeral pace, and slipping oﬂ‘. one by one. to light a pipe
where four or ﬁve smokers were pulling in a circle. among the sugar-
canes. Our crew never appeared tired with their tracking; but in the
mornings they were slow; and the man who was sent for milk moved
very lazily, whether the one chosen were the briskest or thequietest
of the company. The cook was rather too deliberate about breakfast.
and Alee himself was not a good riser. It was their winter; and cold
makes the Arabs torpid instead of brisk. Presently. we had to cross
to the more level bank; and then we ﬁrst saw our people row. It was
very ridiculous. They sang at the top of their voices. some of them
throwing their heads back, shutting their eyes. and shaking their heads
at every quaver, most pathetically,—-dipping their oars the while as if
they were skimming milk. and all out of time with their singing, and
with one another. while their musical time was perfectly good.—The
wind presently freshened, and we stood away. It was ﬁtful all day,
but blew steadily when the moon rose. Just then, however. the Rais
took fright about passing the next point at night, and we moored,
beside four other boats, in the deep shadow of a palm—grove. On these
occasions, two men of the neighborhood and a dog are appointed to
guard each boat that moors to the bank. The boat pays three pias-
tres;“’ and if anything is lost.complaint is made to the Governor of the
district. whose business it is to recover the property, and punish the
guards.

As we approached Manfaloot, we could perceive how strangely old
Nile has gone out of his course, as if for the purpose of destroying the
town. The bed of the river was once evidently at the base of the hills,—
those orange hills with their blue shadows,—where rows of black holes
show ancient catacombs. So strong a reﬂected light shone into one of
these caves, that we could see something of its interior. We called it
a perfect smuggler's cave, with packages of goods within, and a dog on
guard at the entrance. When we looked at it with the glass, however.
we were grave in a moment. We saw that the back and roof were
sculptured.

Manfaloot is still a large place, sadly washed down,—sliced away—
by the encroachment of the river. Many houses were carried away
last year; and some which looked as if cut straight through their inte-
rior, have probably followed by this time.

The heat was now great in the middle of the day; and the glare
oppressive to people who were on the look-out for crocodiles ;—as we
were after passing Manfaloot. We were glad of awning, goggles, fans,
and oranges. But the crew were all_a1ive.—kicking dust over one
another on shore, leaping high in the water. to make a splash, and per-
petrating all manner of practical jokes. We do not agree with travel-
ers who declare it necessary to treat these people with coldness and
severity.—to repel and beat them. We treated them as children; and
this answered perfectly well. I do not remember that any one of them

' About 7d.
Page-43
111: max. 41

was ever punished on our account: certainly never by our desire.
They were always manageable by kindness and mirth. They served
us with heartiuess, and did us no injury whatever. The only point
we could not carry was inducing them to sing softly. No threats of
refusing baksheesh availed. Mr. E. obtained some success on a sin-
gle occasion by chucking dry bread into the throats of one or two who
were quavering with shut. eyes, and wide-open jaws. This joke
availed for the moment, more than any threats; but the truth is. they
can no more refrain from the full use of their lungs when at work, than
from that of eyes and ears.

0n the evening of Monday the 7th. we approached Asyoot: and
beautiful was the approach. After arriving in bright sunshine. ap-
parently at its very skirts. and counting its fourteen minarets, and ad-
miring its position at the foot of what seemed the last hill of the range.
we were carried far away by a bend of the river;—saw boats, and
groups of people and cattle, and noble palm and acacia woods on the
opposite bank and did not anchor till pstarlight under El Hamra, the
village which Is the port of Asy out.

We were sorry to lose the yadvantage of the fair wind which had
sprung up: but it was here that the crew had to bake their bread for
the remainder of the voyage up. We had no reason to regret our de-
tention, occasioning, as it did. our ﬁrst real view of the interior of the
country—Asyoot is a post town too; and we were glad of this last
certain opportunity of writing home before going quite into the wilds.

 

CHAPTER IV.

ASYOO'L—OLD SITES—SOME ELEMENTS 0F EGYPTIAN THOUGHT.—
FIRST CROCODILES.——SOOHADJ.—GlRGEH.—KENNEH.

IN the morning. our canvas was down, along the landward side of
our boats; so that the people on shore could not pry. It was plea-
sant, however, to play the spy upon them. There were many don-
keys, and gay groups of their owners, just above the boat. On the
one hand, were a company of men washing clothes 1n the river under
a picturesque old wall: and on the other. boat-builders diligently at
work on the shore. The Arab artisans appear to work well. The
hammers of these boat-builders were going all day; and the tinman,
shoemakers, and others whom I observed in the bazaars, appeared
dexterous and industrious.

Asy ootia the residence of the Governor of Upper Egypt. Selim
Pasha held this oﬁce as' we went up the river. While we were com-
ing down. he was deposed, —-to the great regret of all whom we heard
speak of it. He was so well thought of that there was every hope of
his reinstatement. Selim Pasha is he who married his sister, and
made the terrible discovery while at supper on his wedding-day, in his
ﬁrst interview with his bride. Both were Circusisn slaves; and he
Page-44
42 names Lira.

had been carried away before the birth of this sister. This adventure
happened when the now gray-bearded man was young: but it invests
him with interest still, in addition to that inspired by his high character.
We passed his garden to-day, and thought it looked well,—-the palace
being embosomed among palms, acacias. and the yellow-ﬂowering
mimosa; which last, when intermixed with other trees, gives a kind of
autumnal tinge to masses of dark foliage.

We were much struck by the causeway, which would be con—
sidered a vast work in England. It extends from the river bank to
the town, and thence on to the Djehel (mountain) with many limbs
from this main trunk. In direct extent, I think it can hardly be less
than two miles: but of this I am not sure. Its secondary object is to
retain the Nile water after the inundation,—the water ﬂowing in
through sluices which can be easily closed. The land is divided by
smaller embankments, within this large one, into compartments or
basins, where the most vigorous crops of wheat, clover, and millet
were ﬂourishing when we rode by. The water stands not more than
two feet deep at high Nile in the most elevated of these basins. Inside
the causeway was the canal which yielded its earth to its neighbor.
In this canal many pools remained; and the seed was only just spring-
ing in the dryeat parts. In some places'I saw shaken piers, and sluices
where the unbaked brick seemed to have melted down in the water:
but the new walls and bridges appeared to be solidly constructed.—
On the banks of the causeway and canal on the south side of the town
were ﬂowering mimosas as large, we thought, as oaks of ﬁfty years
growth in England. The causeway afforded an admirable road :—
high, broad and level. The effect was strange of entering from such
a road into such a town.

The streets had, for the most part. blank walls. brown, and rarely
perpendicular. Some sloped purposely, and some from the giving
way of the mud bricks. Many were cracked from top to bottom.
Jars were built in near the top of several of the houses. for the pigeons.
The bazaars appeared well stocked, and the business going forward
was brisk. I now began to feel the misery which every Frank woman
has to endure in the provincial towns of the Easy—the being stared at
by all eyes. The staring was not rude or oﬁ'ensive; but it was enough
to be very disagreeable; at least, to one who knew, as I did, that the
appearance of a woman with an uncovered face is an indecency in the
eyes of the inhabitants. At Cairo, Jerusalem and Damascus, one feels
nothing of this, and the staring is no more than we give to a Turk in
the streets of London or Liverpool: but in the provincial-towns there
is an air of amazement in the people. mingled in some places with true
Mohammedan hatred of the Christians, which it is hard to meet with
composure. The gentlemen of my party. who did not care for their
share as Christians. wondered at my uneasiness. and disapproved of
it: but I could not help it: and though I never gave way to it so far as
to omit seeing anything on account of it, I never got over it at all, and
felt it throughout to be the greatest penalty of my Eastern travel. Yet
I would not advise any Englishwoman to alter her dress or ways. She
Page-45
\

was run. 43

can never, in a mere passage through an Eastern country, make her-
self look like an Eastern woman; and an unsupported assumption of
any native custom will obtain for her no respect. but only make her
appear ashamed of her own origin and ways. It is better to appear as
she is, at any cost, than to attempt any degree of impostnre.

While we were waiting in the street to have our letters addressed in
Arabic to the care of our consul at Cairo, I was, for the ﬁrst time, struck
by thenumber of blindand one-eyed people among those who surrounded
us. Several young boys were one-eyed. As every body knows, this
is less owing to disease than to dread of the government.

It was strange to see. in the middle of a large town. vultures and
other wild birds ﬂying overhead. Among others, we saw an eagle,
with a ﬁsh in its beak—On our way to the caves in the Djebel. we
met a funeral procession coming from the cemetery which lies between
the town and the hills. The women were uttering a funeral howl worthy
of Ireland.

Our donkeys took us up a very steep path, nearly to the ﬁrst range
of caves. When we turned to overlook the landscape. what a view
was there! Mr. E., who has traveled much, said he had never seen
so rich an expanse of country. I felt that I had seen something like
it; but I could not, at the moment. remember where. It Was certainly
not in England: nor was it like the plains of Lombardy; nor yet the
unfenced expanse of cultivation that one sees in Germany. At last,
it struck me that the resemblance was to an Illinois prairie. The
rich green, spreading on either hand to the horizon, was prairie-like:
but I never was, in Illinois, mm height which commanded one hun-
dred miles of unbroken fertility, such as I now saw. And even in
Illinois, in the ﬁnest season, there is never such an atmosphere as here
gave positive brilliancy to every feature of the scenery. A perfect
level of the most vivid green extended north and south. till it was lost.
not in haze, but from the mere inability of the eye to take in more:
and through this wound away, from end to end, the full blue river.
To the east. facing us, was the varied line of the Arabian hills, ofa
soft lilac tint. Seventeen villages, overshadowed by dark palms, were
set down beside the river. or some little way into the land; and the
plain was dotted with Arab husbandmen and their camels, here and
there, as far as the eye could reach. Below us lay the town, with its
brown, ﬂat-roofed houses, relieved by the palms of its gardens, and
two or three white cupolas. and fourteen minarets, of various heights
and forms. Between it and us lay the causeway. enlivened by groups
of Arabs. with their asses and camels, appearing and disappearing
among the thickets of acacia which bordered it. Behind all lay the
brilliant Djebel—with its glowing yellow lights and soft blue shadows.
The whole scene looked to my eyes as gay as the rainbow, and as
soft as the dawn. As I stood before the cave, I thought nothing could
be more beautiful: but one section of it looked yet lovelier when seen
through the lofty dark portal of an upper cave. But there is no con-
veying such an impression as that.

The caves are tombs; some of them very ancient: so ancient, that
Page-46
44 ' ass-rant urn.

Abraham might have seen them. if he had come so far up the country.
One race of those old times remains ;—the wolves. They were sacred
here (Asyoot being the Lycopolis of the Greek times) ; their mummies
are in many pits of the Djebel; and we saw the tracks of two in the
dust of the caves.—The cave called Stabl d’Antar (Stable of the Ar-
chitect) is lofty and lsrge;-—about seventy-two feet by thirty-six. Its
ceiling is covered with patterns which we should call Greek borders
anywhere else: but this ceiling is older than Greek art. The colors
were chieﬂy blue, light gray and white. The colors of the hierogly-
phic sculptures were red and blue,—the blue predominating. Two
arge ﬁgures ﬂanked the portal; one much defaced; the other nearly
perfect.

I have since seen so much of the old Egyptian monuments, and
they have become so familiarly interesting to me. that I look back
with amusement to this hour of my ﬁrst introduction to hieroglyphics
and burial caves. I can scarcely believe it was only a few months
ago,-so youthful and ignorant seem now the feelings of mere curiosity
and wonder with which I looked upon such painting and sculpture as
afterwards became an intelligible language to me. I do not mean by
this that I made any attempts to learn the old Egyptian language or
its signs,—beyond a few of the commonest symbols. his a kind of
learning which requires the devotion of years; and it is perhaps the
only kind of learning of which a smattering can be of no use. and may

~ probably be mischievous.—I remember being extremely surprised at
the amount of sculptured inscriptions hem—little imagining what a mere
sprinkling they were compared with what I should see in other places.

In the succession of chambers within. and in the caves above, we
found ranges of holes for the deposit of wolf mummies, and pits for
the reception of cofﬁns. The roofs of some of these caves had been
supported by large square pillars, whose capitals remain attached, while
the shafts are gone. This gave us a hint of the architectural adorn-
ment of which we were to see so much hereafter in the tombs of Thebes
and Benee Hasan. In the corner of a tomb lay a human skull, the
bone of which was remarkably thick. Many bones and rags of mummy
cloth lay scattered about. 0n the side of the hill below, we found a

eg and foot. The instep was high by compression, but very long.
There was alsoa skull, wrapped in mummy-cloth; not fragrant enough
now. for all its antique spicery, to bring away.

In the pits of these caves were the mummies lying when Cambyses
was busy at Thebes. overthrowing the Colossus in the plain. And long
after, came the upstart Greeks, relating here their personal adventures
in India under their great Alexander. and calling the place Lycopolis,
and putting a wolf on the reverse of their local coins. And, long after,
came the Romans, and called Lycopolis the ancient name of the place,
and laid the ashes of their dead in some of the caves. And long after,
came the Christian anohorites, and lived a hermit life in these rock
abodes. Among them was John of Lycopolis, who was consulted as
an oracle by the Emperor Theodosius, as by many others, from his
supposed knowledge of futurity. A favorite eunuch, Eutropius, was
Page-47
THE NIL! . 45

sent hither from Constantinople. to learn from the hermit what would
be the event of the civil war. I once considered the times of the Em-
peror Theodosius old times. How modern do they appear on the
hill-side at Asyoot!

Our Scotch friends came up in the evening. As they were detained
for the same reason as ourselves, we left them behind when we
started the next afternoon. They gave us bows and waving of hand-
kerchiefs, when the shouts of our crew gave notice of our departure;
and they no doubt hoped to see us again speedily.

The next day. I told Mr. E. that a certain area we were coming to
on the east bank must be the site of some old town. ljudged this
from the advantages evident at a glance. The space was nearly semi-
circularr—its chord being the river-bank. and the rest curiously sur-
rounded by three ranges of hills, whose extremities overlapped each
other. There was thus obtained a river frontage, shelter from the sands
of the desert behind. and a free ventilation through the passages of the
hills. We referred toour books and map. and found that here stood
Anteopolis. From this time, it was one of my amusements to deter-
mine, by observation of the site, where to look for ancient towns; and
the requisites were so clear, that I seldom found myself deceived.

Diodorus Siculus tells us that Ants; (supposed by Wilkinson to be
probably. the same with Ombte) had charge of the Ethiopian and
Lybian parts of the kingdom of Osiris. while Osiris went abroad
through the earth to beneﬁt it with his gifts. Antes seems not to have
been always in friendship with the house of Osiris, and was killed here
by Hercules,‘ on behalf of Osiris; but he was worshiped here, near
the spot where the wife and son of Osiris avenged his death on his
murderer Typho. The temple sacred to Anne, (or in the Greek.
AntaausJ parts of which were standing thirty years ago, was a rather
modern aﬂ'air, having been built about the time of the destruction of the
Colossus of Rhodes. Ptolemy Philopater built it; and he was the
Egyptian monarch who sent presents and sympathy to Rhodes, on
occasion of the fall of the Colossus. Now nothing remains of the
monuments but some heaps of stones :—notbing whatever that can be
seen from the river. The traveler can only look upon hamlets of
modern Arabs, and speculate on the probability of vast “treasures hid
in the sand.”

If I were to have the choice of a fairy gift, it should be like none of
the many things I ﬁxed upon in my childhood, in readiness for such
an occasion. It should be for a great winnowing fan, such as would,
without injury to human eyes and lungs, blow away the sand which
buries the monuments of Egypt. What a scene would be laid open
then! One statue and sarcophagus, brought from Memphis, was buried
one hundred and thirty feet below the mound surface. Who knows
but that the greater part of old Memphis, and of other glorious cities,
lies almost unharmed under the sand! Who can say what armies of
sphinxes,what sentinels ofeobuhmightstartup on thebanks ofthe

'Qniaesdiﬁrensmﬁunthsﬂmskﬂamles.
Page-48
46 sss'rsax urn.

river, or come forth from the hill-sides of the interior, when the cloud of
sand had been wafted away! The ruins which we now go to study,
might then appear occupying only eminences. while below might be
ranges of pylons, miles of colonnade, temples intact. and gods and god-
desses safe in their sanctuaries. What quays along the Nile, and the
banks of forgotten canals! What terraces, and ﬂights of wide shallow
steps! What architectural stages might we not ﬁnd for a thousand miles
along the river, where now the orange sands lie so smooth and light as
to show the track,—the clear foot-print—of every beetle that comes out
to bask in the sun !—But it is better as it is. If we could once blow
away the sand, to discover the temples and palaces, we should next
want to rend the rocks, to lay open the tombs; and heaven knows what
this would set us wishing further. It is best as it is: for the time has
not come for the full discovery of the treasures of Egypt. It is best
as it is. The sand is a tine means of preservation; and the present
inhabitants perpetuate enough of the names to serve for guidance when
the day for exploration shall come. The minds of scholars are pre-
paring for an intelligent interpretation of what a future age may ﬁnd:
and science, chemical and mechanical. will probably supply such
means hereafter as we have not now, for treating and removing the
sand, when its conservative ofﬁce has lasted long enough. We are not
worthy yet of this great unveiling: and the inhabitants are not, from
their ignorance. trustworthy as spectators. It is better that the world
should Wait. if only care be taken that the memory of no site now
known be lost. True as I feel it to be that we had better wait, I was
for ever catching myself in a speculation. not only on the buried trea-
sures of the mounds on shore, but on means for managing this obsti-
nate sand.

And yet, vexatious as is its presence in many a daily scene, this sand
has a bright side to its character,—like everything else. Besides its
great oﬁice of preserving unharmed for a future age the records of the
oldest times known to man, the sand of the desert has. for many
thousand years. shared equally with the Nile the function of determin-
ing the character and the destiny of a whole people, who have again
operated powerfully on the characters and destiny of other nations.
Everywhere, the minds and fortunes of human races are mainly deter-
mined by the characteristics of the soil on which they are born and
reared. In our own small island, there are, as it were, three tribes of
people, whose lives are much determined still, in spite of all modern
facilities for intercourse. by the circumstance of their being born and
reared on the mineral strip to the west,—-the pastoral strip in the mid-
dle,—or the eastern agricultural portion. The Welsh and Cornwall
miners are as widely different from the Lincolnshire or Kentish hus-
bandmen, and the Leicestershire herdsmen, as Englishmen can be from
Englishmen. Not only their physical training is diﬂ‘erent; their in-
tellectual faculties are differently exercised, and their moral ideas and
habits vary accordingly. So it is in every country where there is a
diversity of geological formation: and nowhere is the original consti-
tution of their earth so strikingly inﬂuential on the character of its
Page-49
was Nru. 47

inhabitants as in Egypt. There everything depends—life itself, and
all that it includes—on the state of the unintermitting conﬂict between
the Nile and the Desert. The world has seen many struggles; but no
other so pertinacious, so perdurable, and so sublime as the conﬂict of
these two great powers. The Nile, ever young, because perpetually
renewing its youth, appears to the inexperienced eye to have no chance.
with its stripling force, against the great old Goliath, the Desert, whose
might has never relaxed, from the earliest days till now; but the giant
has not conquered yet. Now and then he has prevailed for a season;
and the tremblers whose destiny hung on the event, have cried out that
all was over: but he has once more been driven back, and Nilus has
risen up again, to do what we see him doing in the sculptures,—bind
up his water-plants about the throne of E ypt. These ﬂuctuations of
superiority have produced extraordinary e acts on the people for the
time: but these are not the forming and training inﬂuences which I am
thinking of now. It is true that when Nile gains too great an accession
of strength, and runs in destructively upon the Desert. men are in despair
at seeing their villages swept away, and that torrents come spouting out
from the sacred tombs in the mountain. as the fearful clouds of the sky
come down to aid the river of the valley. It is true that in the oppo-
site case. they tremble when the heavens are alive with meteors, and
the Nile is too weak to rise and meet the sand columns that come
marching on, followed by blinding clouds of the enemy; and that
famine is then inevitable, bringing with it the moral curses which
attend upon hunger. It is true that at such times strangers have seen
(as we know from Abdallatif, himself an eye-witness) how little
children are made food of,‘ and even men slaughtered for meat, like
cattle. It is true that such have been the violent eﬂ'ects produced on
men's conduct by extremity here ;—eﬂ'ects much like what are pro-
duced by extremity everywhere. It is not of this that I am thinking
when regarding the inﬂuence on a nation of the incessant struggle be-
tween the Nile and the Desert. It is of the formation of their ideas
and habits, and the training of their desires.

From the beginning, the people of Egypt have had everything to
hope from the river; nothing from the desert: much to fear from the
desert; and little from the river. What their Fear may reasonably be,
any one may know who looks upon a hillocky expanse of sand, where
the little jerboa burrows, and the hyzena prowls at night. Under these
hillocks lie temples and palaces, and under the level sands, a whole
city. The enemy has come in from behind, and stiﬂed and buried it.
What is the Hope of the people from the river, any one may witness
who, at the regular season, sees the people grouped on the eminences,
watching the advancing waters, and listening for the voice of the crier,
or the boom of the cannon which is to tell the prospect or event of the
inundation of the year. Who can estimate the eﬂect on a nation’s mind
and character of a perpetual vigilance against the desert; (see what it is
in Holland of a similar vigilance against the seal) and of an annual

r

' Abdallslit‘, Relation do I’Egypte. Livre II. ch. 2.
Page-50
48 1mm.

mood of Hope in regard to the Nile! Who cannot see what a stimu-
lating and enlivening inﬂuence this periodical anxiety and relief must
exercise on the character of a nation t—And then, there is the eﬂ'ect on
their Ideas. The Nile was naturally deiﬁed by the old inhabitants.
It was a god to the mass; and at least one of the manifestationsof deity
to the priestly class. As it was the immediate cause of all they had.
and all they hoped fan—the creative power regularly at work before
their eyes, usually conquering. though occasionally checked, it was to
them the Good Power; and the Desert was the Evil one. Hence came
a main part of their faith. embodied in the allegory of the burial of
Osiris in the sacred stream, whence he rose, once a year, to scatter
blessings over the earth—Then, the structure of their country ori-
ginated or modiﬁed their ideas of death and life. As to the disposal of
their dead;-they could not dream of consigning their dead to the
waters, which were too sacred to receive any meaner body than the
incorruptible one of Osiris: nor must any other he placed within reach
of its waters, or in the way of the pure production of the valley.
There were the boundary rocks, with the hints afforded by their caves.
These became sacred to the dead. After the accumulation of a few
generations of corpses. it became clear how much more extensive was
the world of the dead than that of the living: and as the proportion of
the living to the dead became, before men‘s eyes, smaller and smaller,
the state of the dead became a subject of proportionate importance to
them, till their faith and practice grew into what we see them in the
records of the temples and tombs,—engrossed with the idea of death
and in preparation for it. The unseen world became all in all to them;
and the visible world and present life of little more importance than as
the necessary introduction to the higher and greater. The imagery
before their eyes perpetually sustained these modes of thought. Every-
where they had in presence the symbols of the worlds of death and
life ;—the limited scene of production, activity and changs;—the valley
with its verdure, its ﬂoods, and its busy multitudes. who were all
incessantly passing away, to he succeeded by their like; while, as a
boundary to this scene of life. lay the region of death, to their view
unlimited, and everlastingly silent to the human can—Their imagery
of death was wholly suggested by the scenery of their abode. Our
reception of this is much injured by our having been familiarized with
it ﬁrst through the ignorant and vulgarized Greek adoption of it, in
their imagery of Charon, Styx, Cerberus and Rhadamanthus: but if
we can forget these, and look upon the older records with fresh eyes,
it is inexpressibly interesting to contemplate the symbolical representa-
tions of death by the oldest of the Egyptians, before Greek or Persian
was heard of in the world; the passage of the dead across the river or
lake of the valley, attended by the Conductor of souls. the god Anubus;
the formidable dog. the guardian of the mansion of Osiris. (or the di-
vine abode ;) the balance in which the heart or deeds of the deceased
are weighed against the symbol of Integrity; the infant Harpocrates,-——
the emblem of a new life, seated before the throne of the judge; the
range of assessors who are to pronounce on the life of the being come
Page-51
m urn. 40

up to judgment; and ﬁnally the judge himself. whose suspended sceptre
is to give the sign of acceptance or condemnation. Here the deceased
has crossed the living valley and river; and in the caves of the death
region, where the howl of the wild dog is heard by night. is this pro«
cess of judgment going forward; and none but those who have seen the
contrasts of the region with their own eyes,—none who have received
the idea through the borrowed imagery of the Greeks, or the traditions
of any other people,—can have any adequate notion how the mortuary
ideas of the primitive Egyptians. and, through them, of the civilized
world at large, have been originated by the everlasting conﬂict of the
Nile and the Desert.

How the presence of these elements has, in all ages, determined the
occupations and habits of the inhabitants, needs only to be pointed out;
the ﬁshing, the navigation, and the almost amphibious habits of the
people are what they owe to the Nile; and their practice of laborious
tillage, to the Desert. A more striking instance of patient industry can
nowhere be found than in the method of irrigation practised in all times
in this valley. After the subsidence of the Nilel every dro of water
needed for tillage. and for all other purposes, for the rest 0 the year.
is hauled up and distributed by human labor—up to the point where
the sakia, worked by oxen, supersedes the shadoof. worked by men.
Truly the desert is here a hard task-master—or rather a pertinscious
enemy, to be incessantly guarded againsw-but yet a friendly adversary,
inasmuch as such natural compulsion to tail is favorable to a nation's
character.

One other obligation which the Egyptians owe to the Desert struck
me freshly and forcibly, from the beginning of our voyage to the end.
It plainly originated their ideas of art. Not those of the present in-
habitants. which are wholly Saracenic still, but those of the rimitive
race who appear to have originated art all over the world. 'Fhe ﬁrst
thing that impressed me in the Nile scenery, above Cairo, was the an-
gularity of almost all forms. The trees appeared almost the only
exception. The line of the Arabian hills soon became so even as to
give them the appearance of being supports to a vast table-land, while
the sand heaped up at their bases was like a row of pyramids. Else-
where, one’s idea of sand-hills is that of all round eminences they are
the roundest, but here their form is generally that of truncated pyra-
mids. The entrances of the caverns are square. The masses of sand
left by the Nile are square. The river banks are graduated by the
action of the water, so that one may see a hundred natural N ilometcrs
in as many miles. Then, again, the forms of the roclts, especially the
limestone ranges, are remarkably grotesque. In a few days.l saw.
without looking for them, so many colossal ﬁgures of men and animals
springing from the natural rock, so many sphinxes and strange birds,
that l was quite prepared for anything i afterwards met with in the
temples. The higher we went up the country, the more pyramidal
became the forms of even the mud houses of the modern people; and
in Nubia, they were worthy, from their angularity, of old Egypt. It
is possible that the people of Abyssinia might, in some obscure age,

4

f
Page-52
50 um“ am.

have derived their ideas of art from Hindostan, and propagated them
down the Nile. No one can now positively contradict it. But I did
not feel on the spot that any derived art was likely to be in such per-
fect harmony with its surroundings as that of Egypt certainly is—a
harmony so wonderful as to be perhaps the most striking circumstance
of all to a European, coming from a country where all art is derived,‘
and its main beauty therefore lost. It is useless to speak of the beauty
of Egyptian architecture and sculpture to those who, not going to
Egypt, can form no conception of its main condition—its appropriate-
ness. I need not add that I think it worse than useless to adopt Egyp-
tian forms and decoration in countries where there is no Nile and no
Desert, and where decorations are not, as in Egypt, fraught with mean-
ing—pictured language—messages to the gazer. But [must speak
more of this hereafter. Snﬁce it now that in the hills, angular at their
summits, with angular mounds at their bases, and angular caves in
their strata, we could not but at once see the originals of temples,
pyramids and tombs. Indeed, the pyramids look like an eternal ﬁxing
down of the shifting sand—hills which are here a main feature of the
desert. If we consider further what facility the desert has aﬂ'orded for
scientiﬁc observation—how it was the ﬁeld for the meteorological studies
of the Egyptians, and how its permanent pyramidal forms served them,
whether originally or by derivation, with instruments of measurement
and calculation for astronomical purposes—we shall see that, one way
or another, the desert has been a great benefactor to the Egyptians of
all time, however fairly regarded, in some senses, as an enemy. The
sand may, as I said before, have a fair side to its character, if it has
taken a leading part in determining the ideas. the feelings, the worship,
the occupation, the habits, and the arts of the people of the Nile valley,
for many thousand years.

The hills now, above Antaaopolis, approached the river in strips,
which, on arriving at them, we found to be united by a range at the
back. Some ﬁne sites for cities were thus aﬁ'orded, and many of
them were no doubt thus occupied in past ages. A little further on
rises a lofty rock; a precipice three hundred feet high, which our Rad's
was afraid to pass at night. I was on deck before sunrise on the morn-
ing of the 11th to see it, but 1 found there was no hurry. A man was
sent for milk from this place, so I landed too and walked some way
along the bank. 0n the Lybian side I overlooked a rich, green, clum y
country; on the Arabian side, the hills came down so close to e
water as to leave only a narrow path, scarcely passable for camels at
high Nile. There were goats among the rocks; and on the other
shore, sheep, whose brown wool is spun by distaﬂ'. by menin the
ﬁelds, or traveling along the bank. The unbleached wool makes the

' Even the Gothic spire is believed by those who know best to be an amen-ted
obelisk; as the obelisk is an attenuated pyramid. Our Gothic aisles are sot-stints
conjectured to he a symmetrical stone copy or the glsdss of a forest; but than an
pillared aisles at El Karma and Medeenet Baboo, which were constructed in I
mantry which had no woods, and before the forests of northern Europe are discerni-
ble in the dim picture of ancient history. *
Page-53
m run. 51

brown garments which all the men wear. I often wished that some
one would set the fashion of red garments in the brown Nile scenery.
We saw more or less good blue every day. but the only red dress I
had seen yet was at Asyoot, where it looked so well that one wished
for more. The red urboosh is a treat to the eye, when the sun
molten it; or, at night, the lamp on deck—but the crew did not wear
the tarboosh, only little white cotton caps, in the absence of the full-
dress turban.

This day was remarkable for our seeing the ﬁrst doum palm (an
angular tree!) and the ﬁrst crocodile. Alee said he had seen a croco-
dile two days before: but we had not. And now we saw several.
The ﬁrst was not distinguishable, to inexperienced eyes, from the
inequalities of the sand. The next I dimly saw slip off into the water.
In the afternoon. a family of crocodiles were seen basking en a mud
bank which we were to pass. As we drew near. in silence, the whole
boat’s company being collected at the hows. the largest crocodile slips
ped into the water, showing its nose at intervals. Another followed,
caving behind the little one, a yellow monster, asleep, with the sunlight
full upon it. Mr. E. ﬁred at it, and at the same moment the crew set
up a shout. Of course. it awoke, and was MT in an instant, but unhurt.
We had no ball; and crocodile shooting is hopeless, with nothing bet-
ter than shot. Our crew seemed to have no fear of these creatures,
plunging and wading in the river without hesitation. whenever occasion
required. There being no wind, we moored at sunset; and two of as
obtained half-an-hour’s walk before dark. Even then, the jackale were
howling alter us the whole time. Our walk was over mud of various
degrees of dryness. and among young wheat and little tamarisks,
springing from the cracked soil.

On the 18th we fell in with Selim Pasha, without being aware what
we were going to see. Our crew having to track, the Rais and Alec
went ashore or charcoal, and Mr. E. and I for a walk. Followinga
path which wound through coarse grass and thorny mimosas, we found
ounelves presently approaching the town of Soohadj: and near the
arched gate of the town. and everywhere under the palms. were groups
and crowds of people, in clean turbans and best clothes. Then appear-
ed. from behind the trees on the margin, three boats at anchor, on
being that of Selim Pasha himself; the others for his suite. He had
come up the river to receive his dues. and was about to settle account!
now at Soohadj. He had a crew of twenty-three men. and was pro-
ceeding day and night. His interpreter accosted us, offered us service,
discussed the wind and weather, and invited us to take coffee on board
the Governor’s boat. [was sorry to be in the way of Mr. E.'a. going;
but I could not think of such an adventure, in Mrs. Y.'s absence. We
saw the Governor leave his boat, supported by the arms. for dignity‘a
sake. He then took his seat under a palm, and received some papers
oﬁ'ered him. He looked old, short, and very business-like. A scribe
sat on the top of his cabin, with inlthorn and other apparatus; and a
man was hurrying about on shore, with a handful of papers covered
with Arabic writing. All this, with the turbaned and gazing group!
Page-54
53 man me.

under the tsmarisks. the white-robed soldiers before thegate of the
barracks, the stretch of town~walls beside us, and the minaret- of
Eckmim rising out of the palm-groves on the opposite shore, made up
a new and striking scene. Mr. and Mrs. Y. saw, from the boat, part
of the reverse side: they saw eight men in irons. reserved to be bastino
adoed for the non-payment of their taxes.—As we walked on, we
passed a school. where the scholars were moving their bodies to and
fro, and jabbering as usual. Then we descended the embankment of
the canal which winds in towards the town, and crossed its sluice; and
then we came out upon a scene of millet-threshing. Two oxen. muz-
zied, were treading out thegrain: ﬁve men were beating the ears, and
a sixth was turning over and shaking the husks with a rake. Such are
the groups which incessantly delight the eye in Eastern travel.—-Next,
we found ourselves among a vast quantity of heavy stones. squared for
building. They were deeply imbedded. but did not look like the re-
mains of ancient buildings. And now it was time for us to stop, lest
there should be difﬁculty, if we went timber, in getting on board. So
we sat down in a dusty but shady place, among some fowl—houses, and
beside an even. I never took a more amusingly foreign walk—A
short ramble that evening was as little like home; but more and than
amusing. We entered a beautiful garden, or cultivated palm orchard,
which was in course of rapid destruction by the Nile. Whole plots
of soil, and a great piece of wall were washed away. Repeatedly we
new signs of this destruction; and we wondered whether an equivalent
advantage was given anywhere else. By day we assed towns which,
like Manfaloot, were cut away. year by year; an by night the sullen
plush caused by the fall of masses of earth. was heard. In countries
where security of property is more thought of than it is here. this
liability must seriously aﬂ'ect the value of the best portions of the land:
those which have a river frontage. Here it appears to be quietly sub-
mitted to. as one of the decrees of inevitable fate. The circumstance
of the Nile changing its course must also affect some historical and
geographical questions :—-in the one case as regards the marches of
ancient armies, and the sites of old cities; and in the other, the relations
of diﬁ'erent parts of the country. Many towns, called inland by geo-
graphers, are now on the banks of the river. At Manfaloot, it is clear
that the divergence from the old course under the rocks is very great:
and near Benee Hasan the change is made almost from year to year.
When Sir G. Wilkinson visited the caves.’ the river was so far oﬂ' as
to leave a breadth of two miles between it ,and the rocks: and Mrs.
Romer, who was there the year before us, describes the passage to the
caves as something laborious and terriﬁc: whereas, when we visited the
caves on our return, we found the river ﬂowing at the base of the
acclivity; and we reached the tombs easily in twelve minutes. F root
the heights, we traced its present and former course, and could plainly
see a third bed, in which it had at one time run. We were sorry to
see it cut through tine land, where the crops on either bank showed

' Wilkinson’s Modern Egypt and Thebes. II. 45.
Page-55
what the destruction must have been. The banks were falling in durs
ing the few hours ofour stay: and here.» in similar placestweobsets
wed that the river was more turbid than usual. These local accidents
snust largely aﬂ’eet the great question of the rate of rising of the bed of
the river. and. in consequence. that of the whole ralley: I question
which some have attempted to determine by I comparison of the dates
of the buildings at Thebes with the depth of the and accumulated
above their bases. - '

The next place where we went ashore. Girgch. once stood I quah
brof a mile inland: it is now in course of being washed down. It
is a miserable place. as might be expected. with such a fate hangi
over it. We staid here an hour. for the purchase of bread. fowls. an
a sheep. We gave 30 paras (lid.) for I fowl: 6:. for a sheep: and a
piaatre (23¢) for 42 eggs. The small bazaars had few people in them
at this hour (7 a. m), and of those few many were blind; and on our
return to the boat. we found a row of blind people on the bank. hopin
for bakshcesh. The millet stalks here measured eleven feet: and 0
course, the ﬁelds are a perfect jungle. We saw occasionally the millet
stalks burnt. and strewn over the ﬁelds for a top~drcssing. At other
times we observed that where the millet had been cut. wheat was sown
broadcast among the stubble. which was left to rot. The only manur-
ing that we saw. besides this top~dressing, was that of the rdsns with
pigeons’ dung; and the qualifying of the Nile mud witi sand from
the desert, or dust out of the temples. brought in frail-baskets on the
backs of asses.

Two of our sapient crew having quarreled at mess about which
should have a particular morsel of bread. and fought noisily on shore.
the Rais administered the bastinsdo. The ﬁrst was laid down. and
held by the feet and shoulders. while ﬂogged with a boat-polo. He
cried out vigorously. The other came forward cheerfully from the
ﬁle, and laid himself down. The Rais broke the pole over him : but
he made no noise.jumped up. spat the dust out of his mouth. and went
to work at the tow-rope. as if nothing had happened. They seem to
bear no malice, and joke with one another immediately alter the bit-
terest quarrels. One of our Nubians wears his knife in a sheath.
strapped about the upper part of his left arm. Another wenrs an
amulet in the same manner. 'l‘wo who came from Dongula have
their faces curiously gushed with three cuts on each cheek. and four
on each side of the eye. These cuts are given them by their parents
in childhood, for beauty marks.

We now began to meet rafts of pottery coming down from Kenneh.
the seat of the manufacture of the water jars which are in general use.
Porous earth and burnt grass are the chief materials used. We meet
seven or more rafts in a group. First, a layer of palm fronds is put
on the raft; and then a layer of "us; then another layer of each. The
jars all have their mouths out o the water. They are so porous that
their conductors are continually employed in emptying them of water:
that is. they are always so employed when we meet them. Not being
worth sponges, they dip in and wring out cloths, with strings to them.
Page-56
u usual nu.

The oars are mere branches, whose bougha are tied together at the ex-
tremity. Though they bend too much. they answer their purpose

ty well: but the whole aﬂ'air looks rude and precarious enough.

curious contrast with their progress was that of the steamer. eon-
veying the Prince of Prussia, which we met to-day, hurrying down
from Thebes. We preferred our method of voyaging. though we now
advanced only about twelve miles a day, and had been fourteen days
making the same distance that we did the ﬁrst two.

We cannot understand why the country boats are so badly laden as
they appear to be. The cargo is placed so forward as to sink the
bows to the water; and so many founder in consequence that we can-
not conceive why the practice is not altered. We have seen several
sunk. One was a merchant boat that had gone down in the night,
with ﬁve people in her. She was a sad spectacle,-—her masts and rig-
ging appearing above water. in the middle of the stream.

On the morning of the 19th, on leaving our anchorage near the high
rock of Chenoboscion, we found that a wind had sprung up; and we
enjoyed the sensation of more rapid progress. We might now hope
to see the temple of Dendara in a few hours. The Arabian mountains
retreated, and the Lybian chain advanced. Crocodiles plunged into
the water as we sailed past the mud banks. The donm palms
to congregate, and from clumps they became woods. Behind one of
these dark woods, I saw a mass of building which immediately ﬁxed
my attention; and when a turn of the river brought us to a point where
the sunlight was shining into it, I could clearly distinguish the charac-
teristics of the temple of Dendara. I could see the massive portico :—
the dark spaces between the pillars, and the line of the architrave.
Thus much we could see for two hours from the opposite shore, as
Mr. E. had to ride up to Kenneh for letters: but,as the wind was fair,
and the temple was two miles 06', we left till our return any closer ex-
amination of it.

While Mr. E. and Ales were gone to the town, Mr. Y. walked
along the shore, in the direction of Selim Pasha’s boats; and Mrs. Y.
and 1 were busy about domestic business on board. I was sewing on
deck when Mr. Y. returned. and told me he had been invited to an
audience of Selim Pasha. When pipes and coﬂ’ee had been brought,
conversation began, through the medium of some Italian gentlemen of
the Pashtafs suite. On Mr. Y.’s expressing his hope that, by means
of commerce, a friendly feeling between the Egyptians and English
would always subsist and increase, one of these oﬂicers exclaimed,
“ How should that be, when you have robbed us of Syria 1" On Mr.
Y.’s paciﬁc observations being again received with an angry recurrence
to this sore subject, the Pasha interposed, saying, “These are great
and important aﬁ'airs which are for our superiors to settle, and with
which we subordinates have nothing to do. Let us talk of something
pleasant." While Mr. Y. was telling me this, an elderly man. with a
white beard, hideous teeth, and coarse face altogether, was approaching
the boat: and to my dismay, he stepped on board,—or rather, was
pushed in by his attendants. Mr. Y. had been sitting with his back
Page-57
waus assess. 55

to the shore; and now, taken by surprise. seeing the white beard, and
having his head full of hislate interview. he announced to me “ his
Excellency, Selim Pasha.” Up I jumped, with my lap-full of work,
even more disappointed that this should he the hero of that romantic
story than dismayed at the visit. And he looked so unlike the old man
I saw under the palm at Sonhadj ! I called up Mrs. Y. from the cabin.
Mr. Y. made signs to the cook (for our only interpreter was absent)
for pipes and coffee: and we sat down in form and order, and abun-
dant awkwardness. To complete the absurdity of the scene. a line of
towels, just out of the wash-tub, were drying on the top of the cabin;
and the ironing blanket was on the cabin table. The ﬁrstreiief was
Mrs. Y.’s telling me, “ It is not Selim Pasha. These are the son and
grandson of the English consul at Kenneh."

Then i began to remember certain things of the English consul at
Kenneh—what a discreet old Arab he is reported to be—behaving ten-
derly to European ladies. and pressing parties to go and dine with him ;
and then, when they are on the way to the town, stepping back to the
boat, and laying hands on all the nice provisions he can ﬁnd, from eggs
to Maraschino: so that he extracts a delectable dinner for himself out
of his showy hospitality to strangers. While I was reviving all this
in my memory, the old man himself was coming down to us. He
shook hands with us all round; and, as I expected, kissed the hand of
each lady, and pressed us to go up and dine with him. Alec. who had
in the meantime returned with Mr. E.. and seen from afar that we were
holding a levée, had received his instructions to decline decisively all
invitations, and convey that we were in a hurry, as the wind was fair
for Thebes: so we were let oﬂ' with a promise that we would dine
with the Consul on our return. if we could. But now arrived the
Governor of Kenneh, a far superior-looking person, handsomely dressed
in line brown broadcloth. The Consul’s elderly son took the oppor-
tunity of exploring the cabins, peeping into every corner, and exam-
ining Mr. E.’s glass and fowling-piece. We feared along detention
by visitors; but these departed before any others came; and it was
still early in the afternoon when we spread our sail, and were off for
Thebes.

 

CHAPTER 'v.

WALKS ASHORE.—FLRST SIGHT 0F THEBES.—ADFOO.—CHRISTMAS
DAY. r

TH! next morning (Sunday, December 20th) we found we must
still have patience, as we should not see Thebes for another day. The
wind had dropped at seven, the evening before, and had brought us only
three miles this morning. In the course of the day we were made
fully sensible of our happiness in having plenty of time, and in not
being pressed to speed by any discomfort on board our boat. We
Page-58
M lunar! am.

were walking on shore at noon. among men and children busy about
their tillage, and sheep and asses and shadoofs. when we saw two
boats, bearing the British and American ﬂags, ﬂoating down the stream.
They wore round. and landed their respective parties, who were Cairo
acquaintances of ours. Neither party had been beyond Thebes. How
we pitied them when we thought of Philte and the Cataracts, and the
depths of Nubia, which we were on our way to see! The English
gentlemen were pressed for time, and were paying their crew to work
night and day; by which they did not appear to be gaining much.
The American gentleman and his wife were suffering cruelly under the
misery of vermin in their boat: a trouble which all travelers in Egypt
must endure in a greater or less degree, but which we found much less
terrible than we had expected. and reducible to something very triﬂing
by a little housewifely cars and management.‘ The terms in which
they spoke of Thebes, after even their hasty journey, warmed our
hearts and raised our spirits high.

The next day was the shortest day. It was curious to observe how
we had lately gained ﬁve minutes of sunlight by our progress south-
wards. Though we cared to-day for nothing but Thebes, we conde-
scended to examine, in our early walk, a strange, dreary-looking place
which we were informed was one of the Pasha’s schools. It was a
large square mud building, crumbling away in desolation. .No chil-
dren were there; but two ofﬁcers stared at us out of a window. An-
other, armed to the teeth, entered the enclosure, and spoke to us, we
suppose in Arabic, as he passed. The plots of ground were neglected,
and the sheds losing their roofs. It is evident that all is over with this
establishment, while the people of the district appear in good condi-
tion. There were shadoofs at small distances, and so many husband-
men at hand that they relieve each other every two hours at this labo-
rious work. a crier making known along the bank the expiration of the
time. We walked through ﬂourishing ﬁelds of tobacco and millet:
and we gathered. for the ﬁrst time, the beautiful yellow blossom of the
cotton shrub. The castor oil plant began here to be almost as beauti-
ful as the cotton.

Whenever we went for a walk, we weie most energetically warned
against the dogs of the peasantry: and one of the crew always sprang
ashore with a club for our defence, when we were seen running into
the great danger of going where we might meet a dog. I suppose the
danger is real—so invariably did the peasants rush towards us. on the
barking of a dog. to pelt the animal away. I never saw any harm
done by a dog, however; and 1 never could remember to be on my
guard; so that one or another of the crew had often to run after me at
t‘iltll speed, when I had forgotten the need of a club bearer, and gone

one.

From breakfast time this day, we were looking over sonthwestwards,
to the Lybian hills which we knew contained the Tombs of the Kings:
and before noon, we had seen what we can never forget. On our re-

. Appendixll
Page-59
mass. 67 '

turn, we spent eight days at Thebes; eight days of industrious search,
which make'us feel familiar with the whole circuit of monuments.
But the ﬁrst impression remains unimpaired and undisturbed. I rather
shrink from speaking of it; it is so absolutely incommunicable! The
very air and sunshine of the moment, the time of day, the previous
mood of mind, have so much share in such a ﬁrst impression as this,
that it can never come alike to any two people. I can but relate what
the objects were; and that most meagerly. ~
The wind was now carrying, us on swiftly; and as we, of course,
stood as high as we could, on the roof of the cabin, the scene unfolded
before us most favorably. Every ridge of hills appeared to turn, and
every recess to open. to show us all sides of what we passed. To our
left. spread a wide level country—the eastern expanse of the plain of
Thebes, backed by peaked mountains, quite unlike the massive Ara-
bian rocks which had hitherto formed that boundary. There was a.
thick wood on that bank; and behind that wood Alee pointed out to
us the heavy masses of the ruins of El Karnac. Vast and messy, in-
deed, they looked. But, as yet, the chief interest .was on the western
shore. The natural features were remarkable enough—the vastness of
the expanse, especially, which confounded all anticipation. The mo-
dern world obtruded itself before the ancient—the shores dressed in the
liveliest green, and busy with Arabs, camels, and buﬁ'alo, partially in-
tercepting the view behind. Between these vivid shores, and before
and behind ‘the verdant promontories, lay reach after reach of the soft
gray, brimming river. Behind this brilliant foreground stretched im-
measurable slopes of land, interrupted here and there by ranges of
mounds or ridges of tawny rocks, and dotted over with fragments of
ruins, and teeming with indications of more. In the rear was the no-
ble guard of mountains which overlooks and protects the plain of
Thebes: mountains now nearly colorless—tawny as the expanse be-
low; but their valleys and hollows revealed by the short, sharp shadows
of noon. The old name for this scene was running in my head—”the
Lybian suburb;" and when I looked for the ediﬁces of this suburb,
what did I not see i I could see. even with the naked eye, and per-
fectly with the glass. traces of the mighty works which once made
this, for greatness, the capital of the world. Long rows of square
apertures indicated the ranges of burying places. Struggling remains
of building wandered down the declivities of sand. And then the
meséum was revealed, and I could distinguish its colossal statues.
nd next appeared—and my heart stood still at the sight—the Pair.
here they sat together, yet apart, in the midst of the plain, serene
/ and vigilant—still keeping their untired watch over the lapse of ages
and the eclipse of Egypt. I can never believe that anything else so
majestic as this Pair has been conceived of by the imagination of Art.
Nothing even in nature certainly ever affected me so unspeakably; no /
thunder storm in my childhood, nor any aspect of Niagara, or th
great Lakes of America, or the Alps, or the Desert, in my later years. I
I saw them afterwards. daily, and many times a day, during our stay
at Thebes; and the wonder and awe grew from visit to visit. Yet no
Page-60
58 sass-nan urn.

impression exceeded the ﬁrst; and none was like it. Happy the tra-
veler who sees them ﬁrst from afar; that is, who does not arrive at
Thebes by night!

We had not thought of stopping at Thebes on our way up the rim:
but we were delighted to ﬁnd that the Rais wanted to have his head
shaved. and Alec to buy a sheep and some bread. We drew to the
El-Uksur (Lnxor) shore. and ran up to the ruins. The most conspicu-
ous portion from the river is the fourteen pillars which stand parallel
with it. in a double row: but we went first to the great entrance to the
temple. I ﬁnd here in my journal the remark which occurs oftener
than any other; that no preconception can be formed of these places.
I know that it is useless to repeat it here; for I meet everywhere at
home people who think, as I did before I went, that between books,
plates, and the still" and peculiar character of Egyptian architecture and
sculpture, Egyptian art may be almost as well known and conceived
of in England as on the spot. I can only testify, without hope of being
believed. that it is not so; that instead of ugliness, I found beauty; in-
stead of the grotesque, I found the solemn: and wherel looked for
rudeness, from the primitive character of Art. I found the sense of the
soul more effectually reached than by works which are the resultof
centuries of experience and experiment. The mystery of this fact sets
one thinking. laboriously; I may say, painfully. Egypt is not the
country to go to for the recreation of travel. It is tod' suggestive and

too confounding to be met but in the spirit of study. One’s powers of _

observation sink under the perpetual exercise of thought: and the light-
. est-hearted voyager. who sets forth from Cairo eager for new scenes
and days of frolic, comes back an antique. a citizen of the world of six
thousand years ago, kindred with the mummy. Nothing but large
knowledge and sound habits of thought can save him from returning
perplexed and home down ;—unless indeed it be ignorance and levity.
A man who goes to shoot crocodiles and dog Arabs, and eat ostrich’s
eggs, looks upon the monuments as so many strange old stone-heaps.
and comes back “ bored to death with the N ile;" as we were told we
should be. He turns back from Thebes, or from the First Cataract;—
perhaps without having even seen the Cataract, when within a mile of
it. as in a case I know; and he pays his crew to work night and day,
to get back to Cairo as fast as possible. He may return gay and un-
worn: and so may the true philosopher, to whom no tidings of Man in
any age come amiss; who has no prejudices to be painfully weaned
from. and an imagination too strong to be overwhelmed by mystery.
and the rush of a host of new ideas. But for all between these two
extremes of lcvity and wisdom. a Nile voyage is as serious a labor as
the mind and spirits can be involved in; a trial even to health and tem-
per such as is little dreamed of on leaving home. The labor and care
are well bestowed, however. for the thoughtful traveler can hardly fail
of returning from Egypt a wiser, and therefore a better man. ‘
There is something very interesting in meeting with a fellow-feeling
in ancient travelers so strong as may be found in the following passage
from Abdallatif with that of some modern Egyptian voyagers. The
Page-61
menu. 50

sage is almost the some as some entries in my journal, made when

had never heard of the Bsgdad physician. He speaks of Memphis,
as seen in his day, and as, alas! one fears it will be seen no more.
“ Notwithstanding the Immense extent of this city, and its high anti-

quity: notwithstanding all the vicissitudes of the different governments
under which it has passed: notwithstanding the odor“ that various
nations have made to destroy it in obliterating the minutest traces, efv
facing its smallest remains, carrying 011' the materials, even to the very
stones, of which it was constructed; laying waste its ediﬁces, mutilating
the ﬁgures which adorned them: and notwithstanding all that four thou-
sand years and more have been able to add to such causes of destruction.
these ruins yet otfer to the eye of the spectator such a combination of
wonders as confounds his understanding, and as the most eloquent man
would vainly attempt to describe. The longer he contemplates, the
more admiration he feels: and each returning glance at these ruins
causes new ecstasy. Scarcely has the spectacle suggested one idea to
the mind of the spectator, when it overpowers it by a greater; and
when he thinks he has obtained a perfect knowledge of what is before
him, he presently learns that his conceptions are still far below the
truth.“ A yet older traveler, Herodotus. says the same thing more
brieﬂy: “I shall enlarge upon what concerns Egypt, because it con-
tains more wonders than any other country; and because there is no
other country where we may see so many works whichare admirable,
and beyond all expression. ”1

It Is not the vastness of the buildings which strikes one ﬁrst at El-
Uksur,—vast as they are; it is the marvel of the sculptures with which
they are covered ;—so old, so spirited, and so multitudinous. It is
Homer, alive before one’s eyes. And what a thought it is, to one
standing here. how long this very sculpture has been an image and a
thought to great minds placed one far behind another m the stages of
human history! Herodotus, who here seems a modern brother-tra-
veler, stood on this spot, and remembered the Iliad as we were now
rememberingit. He spoke of Homer, his predecessor by four hundred
years,” we speak of pthose who lived in the crusading times. And
Homer told of wars which were the same old romance to the people
of his time as the crusades are to us. And at the time of these wars,
this Thebes was a city of a thousand years , and these battle-pictures
now before our eyes were antiquities, as our cathedrals are to us.
Here we were standing before one of the “hundred gates" through
which Homer says the 'I‘heban warriors passed in and out; and
on the ﬂanks of this gateway were sculptured the achievements
of the ancestors of these warriors. There are the men and horses
and chariots, as if in full canon—as full of life as if painted, and
painted in a modern time! The stones of the ediﬁce are parting in
many places: and these battle-ﬁgures extend over the cracks, almost
uninjured by the decay. These graven epics will last some time
longer, though the stone records will give way before the paper.

' Relation de l’Egypt. Livre I. ch. 4. 1’ Herod. II. 35.

I
Page-62
00 Issues am.

The guardian colossi are mighty creatures, with their massive
shoulders and serene heads rising out of the ground. A third helmet
is visible; and among the Arab huts near, a fourth. We saw here for
the ﬁrst time columns with the lotus-shaped capitals; the capitals being
painted, and the blossoms, buds and leaves which ﬁlled up the outline
being very distinct. One test of the massive character of the work
was curious. A huge block of the architrave has fallen from its place,.
and rests on the rim of the cup of the lotus, without breaking it. We
were now introduced to some of the details of Egyptian architecture.
and to some of its great separate features: but all unity of impression
was obviated by the intrusion of the mud huts which are plastered up
against the ruins throughout their range. When we came down the
river, and had become familiar with the structure of Egyptian temples.
we could make out the plan of this, and somewhat discharge from view
the blemishes which spoiled everything now. But at present, we were
not qualiﬁed, and we carried away a painful impression of confusionas
well as ruin.

As we sailed away,I obtained another view of the Pair; and I
watched them till [could hardly tell whether it was distance or the
dusk which hid them at last.

The wind carried us on well: too well; for a stay of the foremast
gave way; and this hindered our progress. The calm and pathetic-
looking Rais rushed towards us, vociferated, and pulled Mr. E. by the
wrist to the forepart, to see the crack.—of which Mr. E., with all his
experience in such matters, thought little. The Rais, however, is re-
sponsible for the condition of the boat, and he feared that the owner
would “ cut his neck off" if anything was carried away. So we
moored to the bank, and some little nails were driven in, so as to do
no good whatever; and then it came out that the Rais wanted to stop
here for the night. We so protested against this that he appeared to
yield; but at the end of a mile or so, he drove us decisively into the

eastern bank.

‘ As I was walking the deck before tea, I saw two lights moving up
under the opposite bank; and supposed them to be from Selim Pasha’s
boats. They crossed the stream. however; and the boats they be-
longed to drove into the bank so immediately behind us as to lift our
rigging. It was our Scotch friends, and the American party. The
gentlemen immediately exchanged visits ; and our own party brought
us some amusement when they returned. Mr. E.’s ﬁrst exclamation.
as he threw down his hat, was, “ What a lucky fellow that is ! He
has shot a crocodile.” “ And why not, if he carries 'ball 1" “ Ah ! I
should have brought ball. He has done it very cleverly. though."
And when the Scotchman returned the call after tea,‘we found that he
had indeed done a difﬁcult and hazardous feat very well : and he was
in possession of the stuffed hide as a trophy.

The next morning, we had an amusement which seemed ridiculous
enough in the Thebaid, but certainly rather exciting ;—a boat race.
When I came on deck, the Scotch gentlemen were just mounting the
bank, with their fowling pieces; and their crew and ours were pre-
Page-63
Anson. u

paring to track. I was about to go ashore also for a walk, when I
observed that our Raia was getting out the sail, though there was not
a breath of wind. It was clear that he expected to fall in with a wind
at the next reach of the river: so I remained on board. Our sail caught
the eye of our Scotch friends. I saw the halt of their red tarbooshes
over the bushes that fringed the bank. They scampered back, and
leaped on board their boat; and in another moment, up went their sail.
In another, up went the American’s ! Three sails. no wind, and three
crews tracking, at a pace scarcely less funereal than usual l—At the
expected point,the sails ﬁlled, all at the same instant, and of we went.
For an hour or more, I could not believe that we were gaining ground,
though Mr. E. declared we were. When it was becoming clear that
we were, he told that, provoking as it was, we must take in sail and
yield the race, as we had to take up, in yonder bay, our milk mes-
senger. There he was. accordingly; and quick was the manoeuvre of
putting in, and snatching up the poor fellow. Half a dozen hands
hauled him in, and helped to spill the milk. Then, what a shout of
laughter there was when the Scotchman shortened sail, and took up
his milkman'too : and after him, the Americans ! We could relish the
milk now, which we had thought so much in our way before. The
race was fairly decided before ten o’clock. We beat, as we ought,
from the superiority of our boat: and before noon, our Scotch friends
put into Isna (Esneh) where their crew were to bake their bread.
This was the last place, north of the Cataract, where they could do so.

lens looks well from the river; but we could see nothing of the
temple, which is lost to view in the town. We left it for our return:
and we meant to do the same with that of Adfoo (Edfou). But it came
in sight while we were at dinner the next day, just when there was no
wind. We decided that no time would be lost by arun up to the
temple: so we sprang ashore. among cotton and castor-uil plants, and
walked a mile in dust, through ﬁelds and under rows of palms. and
among Arab dwellings, to the front of the mighty ediﬁce. No one of
the temples of Egypt struck me more with the conviction that these
buildings were constructed as fortiﬁcations, asmuch as for purposes of
religious celebration. I will not here give any detailed account of this
temple; partly because I understood these matters better when I after-
wards saw it again: and yet more, because it was now almost buried
in dust, much of which was in course of removal on our return, for
manuring the land.—It was here, and now, that I was ﬁrst taken by
surprise with the beauty ;—the beauty of everything ;—the sculptured
columns, with their capitals, all of the same proportion and outline,
though exhibiting in the same group the lotus, the date palm, the doum
palm and the tobacco :—the decorations—each one, with its fullness of
meaning—a delicately sculptured message to all generations, through
all time :—and, above all, the faces. I had fancied the faces, even the
portraits, grotesque: but the type of the old Egyptian face has great
beauty, though a beauty little resembling that which later ages have
chosen for their type. It resembles. however, some actual modern
faces. in the sweet girlish countenances of his and Athor, I often
Page-64
02 assume arts.

observed a likeness to persons—and especially one very pretty one—
at home.

The other thing that surprised me most was the profusion of the
sculptured inscriptions. I had often read of the whole of the surfaces
of these temples being covered with inscriptions: but the fact was
never fairly in my mind till now: and the spectacle was as amazing
as if I had never heard of it. The amount of labor invested here
seems to shame all other human industry. It reminds one more of the
labors of the coral insect than of those of men.

After taking a look at the scanty remains of the mailer temple, we
returned to the boat, to set foot on land no more, we hoped, till we
reached the boundary of Egypt, at the old Syene. My friends at home
had promised to drink our healths at the First Cataract on Christmas
day: and, when the wind sprang up, on our leaving Adfoo. and we
found, on the morning of the 24th, that it had carried us twenty-ﬁve
miles in the night, we began to believe we should really keep our
appointment.

The quarries of Silsilis have a curious aspect from the river ;—half
way between rocks and buildings: for the stones were quarried out so
regularly as to leave buttresses which resemble pillars or colossal
statues. Here, ‘where men once swarmed, working that machinery
whose secret is lost. and moving those masses of stone which modem
men can only gaze at—in this once busy place, there is now only the
hymna and its prey. In the bright daylight, when the wild beast is
hidden in its lair, all is as still as when we passed.

We saw, this morning, a man crossing the river, here very wide, on
a bundle of millet stalks. His clothes were on his head, like a huge
turban, and he paddled himself over with the branch of a tree.

At sunset, the contrasting colors of the limestone and sandstone
ranges were striking. The limestone was of a bright pale yellow : the
sandstone purplish. By moonlight, we saw the ruins of Kbm Umboo
(Korn Ombos), which looked ﬁne on the summit of their rock on the
eastern bank.

Christmas morning was like a July morning in England. We had
made good progress during the night, and were now only eleven miles
from Aswin (Esseuan), the old Syene—the frontier between Egypt
and Nubia. When we came within two miles, we left our letter-
writing. The excitement was too strong to allow of any employment.
At present, we saw nothi of the wildness of the scenery, of which
we had read so much. e found that higher up. The river became
more and more lake-like; and there was a new feature in 1he jutting
black rocks. The shores were green And tranquil; and palms
abounded more than in any place we had passed. Behind these rich
woods, however, the Lybian desert rose, yellow with sand drifts.—0nr
crew became merry in the near prospect of rest. One of them dressed
himself very ﬁne, swathing himself with turbaus, and began to dance,
to the music and clapping of the rest. He danced up to us, with im
sinuating cries of “ baa" and “ bakshcesh," as a hint for a present of a
sheep. In the midst of this, we ran aground, and the brie! fellows
Page-65
“was. I!

lirew down their drum. pipe, and ﬁnery, and went to work as usual.
We were now making for the shore, in order to land a man who had
begged a passage from Cairo. He was a Rats; and had served at
Constantinople and elsewhere for twenty-ﬁve years, during which
time he had never been home. For many years he had had no tidings
of wife or children; and now. when within a mile or two of his home,
he showed no signs of perturbation. He made his acknowledgments
to us with an easy cheerful grace, put of? his bright red slippers, and
descended into the mud. and then thrust his muddy feet into his new
slippers with an air of entire tranquillity. We watched him as long
as we could see him among the palms, and should have been glad to
know how he found all at home. The scene around looked 1hr indeed
out of the bounds of Christendom, this Christmas-day, till I saw, on a
steep. the ruins of the Coptic convent of St. George. Aswin was now
peeping over the palms on the eastern shore; and opposite to it was
the island of Elephantine—half rubbish, half verdure. We moored to
the shore below Aswin just at two o’clock; and thus we kept our
appointment, to dine at the First Cataract on Christmas-day. Our
dinner included turkey and him-pudding. Oar Arab cook succeeded
well with the last-Iirentionedp novelty. We sent a huge cantle of it to
the Rais. who ate it all in a tries, and gave it his emphatic approbation.

 

CHAPTER VI.

ASWAN. —SLAVES. —FIRST RIDE IN THE DESERT —QUARRIES —ELE-
PHANTINE—RIVER SCENERY .JREPARATIONS FOR NUBIA -FIRBT
SIGHT 0F PHlLt'E.

As soon as our plank was down, a sort of mob-market was formed
on shore. There was a display of stuﬁ'ed crocodile, spears, ebony
clubs, straw-baskets, coins, walking sticks. an ostrich’s egg, 3 conjurer,
dtc. It was at this place that a girl oﬂ'ered me for sale an English
half-penny; and another the glass stopper of a little bottle. Here, a
everywhere, my ear trumpet was handled and examined with quick
mrioaity ; and in almost every case. from Nubia to the Lebanon, the im-
mediate conclusion was the same. The inquirers put the small end to
their lips, and gave a satisﬁed nod. lt was'cleaI-ly a pipe, with an
enormous bowl! At Aswin, however, we staid long enough for the
people to discover what the trumpet was for; and from the moment of
the discovery, they did their best to enable me to do without it. As
we passed through the lane they made for us, they pressed forwards
to shout into my ears “baksheesh! baksheesh, " till Alec pushed and
ﬂogged them away. I wonder at their perseverance in thus inces-
santly begging of strangers; for we could not learn that they ever got
anything by it. If, as it appeared to me. travelers give only in return
for service, or in consideration of some inﬁrmity, the perseverance in
begging seems wonderful. I saw at this place parents teaching a little
Page-66
64 um“ use.

one to speak: and the word they tried it with was “baksheesh.” I
saw a little fellow just able to carry his father's slippers,—which were
almost as big as himself :—his father gave him a careful training in
hugging the slippers with one arm, while he held out the other hand to
me for baksheesh. The people here were very good looking. They
cannot grow provisions enough for their numbers,——the desert encroach-
ing too much to permit the cultivation of more land than the mere
river banks: but they import enough for their wants. Their renowned
dates are their principal article of exchange; and traﬂic goes on here
in henneh, baskets. senna, charcoal and slaves from Upper Ethiopia
and Abyssinia. Of course. it was impossible to learn their numbers.
Nobody knows: and if any one knew, he would not tell. A census may
be. and has been ordered; but it cannot be executed. The popular
dread of the government renders it impossible. The fellshs (peasants)
have such a terror of increased taxation and of the conscription, that
they abscond on the mention of a census; and some who can afford
it bribe the oﬂicials to suppress their names, and those of their fami-
lies. The last thing that can be learned of any Egyptian town or
district is its population.

The walls-of the streets are blank here ;—not a window, or break of
any kind. but a low door here and there. The bazaars looked poor;
and I believe the traffic is chieﬂy carried on elsewhere. We saw two
slave-bazaars. One was an inclosure on the rising ground above our
boat. The slaves here were only ﬁve or six. and all children;—all
under sixteen years of age. They were intelligent and cheerful-look-
ing; and I recognized, at the ﬁrst glance. the likeness to the old Egyp-
tian countenance and costume. The girls had their faces uncovered;
and their hair in the Ethiopian fashion,—precisely that which we see
in the old sculptures and paintings. One little girl was preparing the
pottage for their supper. very cleverly and earnestly. She was said to
be ﬁfteen; and 151. was the sum asked for her. The other bazaar
was on the outskirts of the town, and near our boat. It contained,
when we saw it on our return, a dozen boys. and about ﬁfteen girls.
Most of the girls were grinding millet between two stones, or kneadé
ing and baking cakes. They were freshly oiled, in good plight, and
very intelligent-looking. for the most part. Some of them were really
pretty in their way.—-in the old Egyptian way. They appeared cheer-
ful, and at home in their business; and there can scarcely be a stronger
contrast than between this slave-market and those I had seen in the
United States. The contrast is as strong as between the serfdom of
the Egyptian, and the freedom of the American inhabitants of the
respective countries: and of course, the ﬁrst aspect of slavery is inﬁ-
nitely less repulsive in Egypt than in America. What I learned. and
may have to tell, of the life of the modern Egyptians proves. however.
that the institution is no more defensible here than elsewhere.

[saw a little girl on the shore making cord, for tying round the
waists of the men; and was extremely surprised to observe that the

recess is the same as that of bobbin-making with the lyre by English
dies. Instead of an ivory lyre, this child had two crossed sticks;
Page-67
camomo cameras or was um. 05

and her cotton thread was very coarse. It was striking to see this
little art existing in places so widely apart.

We Walked, this afternoon, to the ruins of the old town, and over-
looked its desolation from the top of the rock above the river. The
translation of the name of this town is “ the Opening:" and a great
opening this once was, before the Nile had changed its character in
Ethiopia. and when the more ancient races made this rock their watch~
tower. on the frontier between Egypt and the South.

That the Nile has changed its character, south of the First Cataract,
has been made clear by some recent examination of the shores and
monuments of Nubia. Dr. Lepsius has discovered watermarks so high
on the rocks, and ediﬁces so placed as to compel the conviction, that
the bed of the Nile has sunk extraordinarily, by some great natural-
proeess, either of convulsion or wear.’ The apparant exaggerations
of some old writers about the Cataracts at Syene, may thus be in some
measure accounted for. If there really was once a cataract here. in—
stead of the rapids of the present day, there is some excuse for the
reports given from hearsay, by Cicero and Seneca. Cicero says that
“ the river throws itself headlong from the loftiest mountains, so that
those who live nearest are deprived of the sense of hearing, from the
greatness of the noise.” Seneca’s account is.—“ When some people
were stationed there by the Persians. their ears were so stunned with
the constant roar, that it was found necessary to remove them to a
more quiet place."—-Snpposing the Cataract formerly to have been of
any height rendered necessary by the discoveries of Dr. Lepsius, it is
clear that Syene must have been the station for the trausshipment of
merchandise passing north or south. The granite quarries, too. whence
much of the building material of old Egypt was drawn, must have
added .to the business of the place. It is clear. accordingly, that this
was, in all former times, a station of great importance. There were
temples at Elephantine, to guard the interests of the neighborhood, and
to attract and gratify strangers. There was a Nilotneter, to give tidings
of the deposits of the great god Nilus. There was a garrison in the
time of the Persians. and again in that of the Greeks: and Roman
fortiﬁcations stand in ruin on the heights around. The Saracenie re-
mains are obvious enough: and thus we have, on this frontier spot,
and visible from the rock on which we stood. evidence of this place
having been prized by successive races, as the Opening which its pre-
sent name declares it to be.

The ruins of the Saracenic town make their site desolate beyond
descriptiont—more desolate to my eyes, if possible, than the ﬁve acres
I saw laid waste by the great New York ﬁre. Two women were
sitting under the wall of a rooﬂess house. with no neighbors but a few
prowling dogs. They warned me away till they saw the rest of my
party coming up the ascent. The Island of Elephantine. opposite,
looked as if just laid waste by an earthquake, scarcely one stone being
left upon another of all its once grand ediﬁces. On its rocks were

’ Appendix C.
5
Page-68
66 sums am.

hieroglyphic inscriptions, many and deeply carved. In a hollow of the
desert behind us lay the t cemetery, where almost every grave has
its little stone, with a Cu c inscription. The red granite was cropping
up everywhere; and promontories and islets of black basalt u to
show themselves in the river. Behind us, at the entrance of the esert,
were the mountainous masses of granite. where we were toanorrow to
look for the celebrated quarries, and their deserted obelisk. Before
we came down from our point of survey. we saw the American party
crossing, in a ferry-boat, to Elephantine. They had arrived after us,
and were to set out, on their return, to Cairo the next day !

As we sat on deck under our awning, this evening, the scene was strik-
ing;—the brilliant moonlight resting on the quiet groves, but contend-
ing on the shore with the yellow glow from the west, which gilded the
objects there; and especially the boat-building near the water’s edge;
—the crews forming picturesque groups, with their singing, clapping
and dancing, while close beside them, and almost among them, were
the Rais and two other men going through their prayers and tn-
tions. This boat-building was the last we saw up the river: an a rude
aﬂ'air it was :——the planks not planed. and wide apart, and irregular.

A kandjia was here, which had brought a party of Turkish oﬂieers.
We had the oﬂ’er of it, to take us to the Second Cataract; our dshabieh
being. of course, too large to ascend the Cataract here.- Our gentlemen
thought it would not do ;—that Mrs. Y. and I could not put up with
its accommodations, even for a fortnight. We thought we could: but
we agreed that the ﬁrst thing to be done was to go to the head of the
Cataract, and see what boats could be had there.

The next morning, therefore, we had breakfast early, and set oﬂ’ on
asses for Mahatta,—the village at the head of the Cataract. This, our
ﬁrst riderin the desert, was full of wonder and delight. It was only
about three miles: but it might have been thirty, from the amount of
novelty’in it. Our thick umbrellas, covered with brown holland, were
a necessary protection against the heat, which would have been almost
intolerable, but for the cool north wind.—I believed before that I had
imagined the Desert: but now I felt that nobody could. No one could
conceive the confusion of piled and scattered rocks, which, even in a
ride of three miles, deprives a changer of all sense of direction, except
by the heavens. These narrow passes among black rocks, all suﬁ'o
cation and glare, without shade or relief. are the very home of despair.
The oppression of the sense of sight disturbs the brain, so that the will
of the unhappy wanderer cannot keep his nerves in order. I thought
of poor Hagar here, and seemed to feel her story for the ﬁrst time. I
thought of Scotch shepherds lost in the snow, and of their mild case
in comparison with that of Arab goat-herds lost in the Desert. The
difference is of death by lethargy and death by torture. We were af-
terwards in the depth of Arabia. and lived ﬁve weeks in tents, in the
Desert: but no Arabian scene impressed me more with the character-
istics of the Desert than this ride of three miles from Aswin to Mahatta.
The presence of dragon ﬂies in the Desert surprised me ;--not only
here, but in places afterwards—where there appeared to be no water
Page-69
1's: nlsxar—runA'n-A. 67

within a great distance. To those who have been wont to watch the
coming forth of the dragon-ﬂy from its sheath on the rush on the mar-
gin of a pool, and ﬂitting about the mountain watercourse, or the moist
meadows at home, it is strange to see them by dozens glittering in the
sunshine of the desert, where there appears to be nothing for them to
alight on ;—nothing that would not shrivel them up. if they rested for
a moment from the wing. The hard dry locust seemed more in its
place, and the innumerable beetles, which everywhere left a net-work
of delicate tracks on the light sand. Distant ﬁgures are striking in the
Desert, in the extreme clearnsss of light and shade. Shadows strike
upon the sense here as bright lights do elsewhere. It seems to me
that I remember every ﬁgure I ever ’saw in the Desert:—every veiled
woman tending her goats“ or carrying her water-jar.on her head ;—
every man in blue skirting the hillocks; every man in ‘brown guiding
his ass or his camel through the sandy deﬁles of the black rocks, or
on a slope by moonlight, when he casts a long shadow. Every mov-
ing thing has a new value to the eye in such a region.

When we came out upon Mahatta. we were in Nubia, and found
ourselves at once in the midst of the wildness of which we had read
so much in relation to the First Cataract. The Mississippi is wild:
and the Indian grounds of Wisconsin, with their Wigwam camps, are
wild: but their wildness is only that of primitive Nature. This is fan-
tastic,—impish. It is the wildness of Prospero’s island. Prospero’s
island and his company of servitors were never outof my head between
Aswin and the next placid reach of the river above Philtn.—The rocks
are not sublime: they are too like Titanic heaps of black paving-stones
to be imposing otherwise than by their oddity: and they are strewn
about the land and river to an excess and with a caprice which takes
one’s im ination quite out of the ordinary world. Their appearance
is made 3%” more strange by the cartouches and other hieroglyphic
inscriptions which abound among them; sometimes on a face above
the river; sometimes on” a mere ordinary block near the path ;—some-
times on an unapproachable fragment in the middle of the stream.
When we emerged from the Desert upon Mahatta, the scene was some-
what softened by the cultivation behind the village, and the shade of
the spreading sycamores and clustered palms. Heaps of dates, like
the wheat in our granaries for quantity, lay piled on the shore; and
mounds of packages (chieﬂy dates) ready for export. The river was
all divided into streamlets and ponds by the black islets. Where it
was overshadowed, it was dark gray or deep blue; but where the light
caught it, rushing between a wooded island and the shore, it was of
the clearest green.—The people were wild.—especially the boys, who
were naked and excessively noisy : but I did not dislike their behavior;
which was very harmless, though they had to be ﬂogged out of the
path, like a herd of pigs.—We saw two boats, and immediately be-
came eager to secure the one below. Iwas delighted at this, as we
were thus not deprived of the adventure of ascending the Cataract.

On our return, we sent Ales forward to secure the kandjia; and we
diverged to the quarries. passing through the great cemetery with its
Page-70
68 EASTERN use.

curious grave-stones, inscribed in the Cuﬁc character. The marks of
the workmen’s tools are as distinct as ever on the granite of the quar-
ries. There are the rows of holes for the wooden pegs or wedges
which, being wetted, expanded and split the stone. There are the
grooves and the notches made, by men who died several thousands of
years ago, in preparation for works which were never done. There
are the playful or idle scratches made by men of old in a holiday mood.
And there, too, is the celebrated obelisk. about which, I must take
leave to say, some mistakes are current at this day.

It may look like triﬂing to spend any words on the actual condition
of an obelisk in the quarry : but. if we really wish to know how the
ancients set about works which modern men are unable to achieve. we
must collect all the facts we can about such works, leaving it for time
to show which are important and which are not. We spend many
words in wondering what could be the mechanical powers known to
the old Egyptians, by which they could detach. lift, carry, and dress
such massess of stone as our resources are wholly inadequate to deal
with. When we chanceto meet with one such mass in a half-ﬁnished
state. it is surely worth while to examine and report upon its marks
and peculiarities, however unaccountable, as one step towards learning
hereafter, how they came there.

This obelisk was declared, by a traveler who judged naturally by
the eye, to be lying there unﬁnished because it was broken before it
was completely detached from the rock. Other travelers have repeated
the tale,—one measuring the mass, and taking for granted that an irre-
gular groove along the upper surface was the “ crack,”—the “ ﬁssure ;"
and another, comfortably seated on an ass, not even getting down to
touch it at all. Our friend, Mr. E., was not satisﬁed without looking
into things with his own eyes and his own mind: and he not only
measured and poked in the sand, but cleared out the sand from the
grooves till he had satisﬁed himself that there is no breakage or crack
about the obelisk at all.r

The upper surface is (near the centre of its length) about two feet
broad: and there is every appearance of the other three sides having
the same measuremeng—as the guide says they have.—allowing for
the inequalities of the undressed stone. There is no evidence that it
is not wholly detached from the rock. Of course, we moderns cannot
move it; but the guide declares that, when cleared of sand. a stick may
be passed under in every part. And it seems improbable that the apex
of the obelisk should be reduced to form before‘the main body is severed
from the rock—As for the supposed “ ﬁssure,” it is. certainly a care-
fully wrought groove, and no crack. Its sides are as smooth as any
tablet; and its breadth appears to be uniform :—about an inch wide at
the top. Its depth is about three inches; and it is smooth and sound
all along the bottom. Near it is a slight fault in the stone; askin-
deep crack,—1ittle more than a roughness of the surface. Across the
upper face were some remarkable holes. Besides those which are
‘usually prepared for wedges or pegs, there were two deep grooves.
slanting and not parallel. If they had been straight and parallel, we
Page-71
onsnms—onausx—anaram'rm. 69‘

should have immediately supposed them intended to hold the chains
or ropes by which the mass was to be raised: and it is still possible
that they were so. But we do not know what to make of the groove
which is commonly called the ﬁssure. It is deep; it is longitudinal;
and it is devious; not intended, evidently, to bear any relation to the
centre of the face, nor to be parallel with either side, nor to be straight
in its direction. The only conjecture we could form was that it was
in preparation for the dressing of the stone, after the erection of the
obelisk: but then its depth appears too great for such a purpose. We
observed a considerable bulge on the upper face of this obelisk. We
all know that this is necessary. to obviate that optical deception which
gives an appearance of concavity to a perfectly correct pyramidal line;
and we all know that the old Egyptians so well understood this archi-
tectural secret that they might be the teachers of it to all the world.
But the knowledge of this does not lessen the surprise, when the proof
of it, in so gigantic a form, is under one’s hand.—_The block was
ninety feet long above the sand, when we were there; and the guide
said that the sand covered thirty more. Judging of the proportions of
the apex from what we saw, it must either require much cutting away
in the dressing, or be a little spire. It would doubtless be much re-
duced by cutting—We left the quarries, full of speculation about what
manner of men they were who cut and carved their granite mountains
in this noble style, and by what inconceivable means they carried away
their spoils. It would hardly surprise me more to see a company of
ants carrying a life-size statue. than it did to measure the building stones
and colossi of the East.

In our walk this evening we saw a pretty encampment of Albanian
soldiers among the palms. One had to rub one’s eyes to be sure that
one was not in a theatre. The open tent, with the blue smoke rising.
the group of soldiers, in their Greek dress, on the ground, and seen
between the palm stems; the arms piled against a tree, and glittering
in the last rays of the sun ;—all this was like a sublimated opera scene.
And there was another, the next morning, when they took their de-
parture southwards, their ﬁle of loaded camels winding away from
under the shade into the hot light.

We went early_to Elephantine. this morning (the 27th), after seeing
the Scotch boat arrive. The remains on Elephantine are not now very
interesting ;—at least, we did not ﬁnd them so: and we do not enter
into the ordinary romance about this “Island of Flowers.” Not only
we saw no ﬂowers; but we could perceive no traces of any; and our
guide could not be made to understand what ﬂowers were. Conversa-
tion was carried on in Italian, of which the man appeared to have no
lack. First he said there were many ﬂowers there: then that there
were none: and he ended by asking what “fiori” were. He shook
his head in despair when we showed him. The northern end of the
island is green and fertile: but the southern end is one dreary heap of
old stones and broken pottery. The quantity of broken pottery in
these places is unaccountable,—incredible.

The quays are gone, and the great ﬂight of steps to the river. The
Page-72
10 smart urn.

little ancient temple of Kneph is gone; and another, and the upper
portion of the Nilometer were pulled down, some years since, to supply
building stone for an oﬂicial’s palace at Aswin. We saw, at the Nilo-
meter, sculptured stones built in among rough ones,——some being up-
side down,—some set on end. And this is all we could make out of
this ediﬁce. There is a granite gateway of the time of Alexander; and
this is the only erect work of any interest.—-There is a statue of red
granite, with the Osiride emblems ;—a mean and uncouth image, in
comparison with most that we saw. Some slender and broken granite
pillars lie about, a little to the north of the gateway: and one of them

~ bears a sculptured cross; which shows that they were part of a Chris-
tian temple.

The people on the island are Nubiams. Many of their faces, as well
as their forms, are ﬁne: and they have the same well—fed and healthy
appearance as we observe among the people generally, all along the
great valley, and especially in the Nubian part of it. Some of the chil-
dren were naked; some had ragged clothing; and many were dressed
in substantial garments, though of the dusty or brown colors which
convey an impression of dirt to an English eye. The children’s hair
was shining, even dripping with the caster-oil which was to meet our
senses everywhere in Nubia.

Our Scotch friends called while we were at breakfast, and offered us
their small boat for an expedition to Philm. Much as l longed to see
Philce, I was startled at the idea of going by water in a small boat, as a
mere morning trip: and I was sorry to see our saddles put away, as it
appeared to me more practicable to go by the shorter way of the desert,
taking a boat from Mahatta. If we had known what we soon learned
about the water passage, we should not have dreamed of such an adven-
ture. My next uneasiness was at ﬁnding that we were going with only
Arab rowers, without an interpreter. It certainly was foolish; but the
local Rais had arranged the affair; and it was not for us to dispute the
wisdom ofthe man who must know best. I am glad we went; for we
obtained admirable views of this extraordinary part of the river, at more
leisure. and with more freedom than when ascending the Cataract in
our kandjia, amidst the hubbub of a hundred natives.

The wear of the rocks by thousands of annual inundations exhibits
singular eﬂ'ects, in holes, unaccountable ﬁssures, grotesque outlines, and
gigantic piling up of blocks. The last deposit of soil on the slopes of
smooth stones, and in every recess and crevice. reminded me of the odd
tillage one sees in Switzerland. where a miniature ﬁeld is made on the
top of a boulder, by conﬁning the deposited earth with a row of stones.
And when we were driven to land, in the course oftlte morning, it was
striking to see in what small and parched recesses a few feet of millet
and vetches were grown, where the soil would yield anything. The
deposit was always graduated, always in layers, however little there
might be of it. In some stones in the middle of the current, there were
wrought grooves, and holes for wedges; for what purpose, and whether
these stones were always in the middle of the current. let those say
who can. They looked like a preparation for the erection of colossal
Page-73
PANTOIIIIO ma DAG! 11881.1!”- 71

statues, which would have a ﬁner eﬁ‘ect amidst this frontier cataract
than any Madonna del Mare has amidst the lagoons of Venice. The
water here was less turbid than we had yet seen it. Its gushings round
the rocks were glorious to see, and, in my opinion. to feel, as we made
directly towards them,’ 1n order to be swirled away by them to some
opposite point which we could not otherwise reach. The only time I
was really startled was when we bumped tremendously upon a sunk-
en rock. I saw, however, that the rowers were conﬁdent and merry;
and when this is the case with local residents, in any critical passage
of foreign travel, one may always feel secure. Remembering this, I
found our hard won passages through sharp little rapids, and the eager-
ness and hubbub of the rowers delightful. But all did not ﬁnd it so:
and truly there was a harum-scarum appearance about the adventure
which justiﬁed a pause and reconsideration what we should do.

It was impossible to obtain any information from the Arabs. Panto-
mime may go a good way with any people in Europe, from a general
aﬂinity of ideas, and of their signs, which prevails over a continent
where there is nearly uniform civilization. But it avails nothing, and
is even misleading, between Europeans and the natives of Oriental
countries. Our gentlemen were much given to pantomime, in the ab-
sence of an interpreter; and it was amusing to me to see, with the
practised eye of a deaf person, how invariably they were misunder-
stood, and often, when they had no suspicion of this themselves.
They naturally employed many conventional signs, and, of course, so
did the Arabs: and such confusion arose out of this that I begged my
friends never to put down 1n their journals any information which they
believed they had obtained by means of pantomime. It might be that
while they were inquiring about a pyramid, the Arabs might be reply-
ing about the sun: while they were asking questions about distance,
the Arabs might be answering about ploughing: and so on. To-day
we could make out nothing: so we offered very intelligible signs that
we wished to land. We landed in a cove of a desert region on the
eastern shore: and while Mr. E. was drawing maps on the sand, and
the rowers were clamoring and gesticulating about him, I made for a
lofty pile of rocks. a little way inland, to seek for a panoramic view.
It was dreadfully hot: but I obtained a magniﬁcent view of the river,
as well as the surrounding country; by far the ﬁnest view of the Cata-
ract that oﬁ'ered.—I could see nothing 'of Philce,‘ which was in fact
hidden behind the eastern promontories: but from the great sweep the
river made above us, and the indescribable intricacy of its channels
among its thousand scattered rocks, it seemed plain to me that it would
take some hours to reach the Sacred Island. I reported accordingly;
and Mr. E. thought he had ascertained from the crew that it would
take three hours to get to Philt‘e. As it was by this time one o’clock,
we decided to return. It afterwards appeared that the three hours the
men spoke of were from our dahabieh to Philae: butI am sure it would
have taken much more.

From my point of observation, I had seen that several weirs were
constructed among the rapids, where a few blackies were busy,—some
Page-74
72 EM!“ urn.

leaning over from the rocks, and others up to their shoulders to the
stream. Their dusky ﬁgures contrasted ﬁnely with the glittering
waters; and it was a truly savage African scene. One man came
swimming to us, with a log under his breast, bringing a ﬁsh half ubig
as himself. It was like a gigantic perch; we bought it for- hid" and
found it better than Nile ﬁsh usually are.—I have often read of the great
resource the Egyptians have in the ﬁsh of their river. They do not
seem to prize it much; and I do not wonder. We thought the Nile
ﬁsh very poor in quality, and commended the natives for eatingm in

preference the grain and pulse which their valley. yields in abundance.

Several people had collected ,'—there 18 no saying from whence—in
our cove to see us depart: and I was glad they did, for their ﬁgures
on the rocks were beautiful. One little naked boy placed himself on
the top of a great boulder In an attitude of such perfect grace,-—-partly
sitting. partly kneeling, with his hands resting on one foot—that I
longed to petrify him, and take him home, an ebony statue. for the In-
struction of sculptors. There is no training any English child to
imitate him. An attitude of such perfect grace must be natural: but
not, I suppose, in our climate, or to any one who has sat on chairs.

Our return, with the current, was smooth, pleasant and speedy. We
found that the kandjia had been cleaned, sunk, (three drowned rats
being the visible result of the process,) raised, and dried; and the stores
were now being laid in: and to-morrow we were to go up to the Rs-
pids, to leave the next day clear for the ascent of the Cataract.—This
evening was so warm that Mrs. Y. and I walked on the shore for some
time without bonnet or shawl; the ﬁrst and last occasion, no doubt, of
our doing so by moonlight on the 27th of December.

The next morning I rose early, to damp and fold linen; and I was
ironing till dinner-time, that we might carry our sheets and towels in
the best condition to the ltandjia. No one would laugh at, or despise
this who knew the importance. in hot countries, of the condition of
linen; and none who have not tried can judge of the difference in
comfort of ironed linen and that which is rough dried. By sparing a
few hours per week, Mrs. Y. and I made neat and comfortable the
things washed by the crew; and when we saw the plight of other tra-
velers,—gentlemen 1n rough dried collars, and ladies 1n gowns which
looked as if they had been merely wrung out of the wash-tub, we
thought the little trouble our ironing cost us well bestowed. Every-
body knows now that to take English servants ruins everything,—de-
strays all the ease and comfort of the Journey; and the Arabs cannot
iron. They cannot comprehend what.l it is for. One boat’s crew last
year decided, after a long consultation. that it was the English way of
killing lice. This was not our crew: but I do not think ours under-
stoodg to the last the meaning of the weekly ceremony of the ﬂat-iron.
The dragoman of another party, being sounded about ironing his em-

loyer’s white trowsers, positively declined the attempt; saying that
he had once tried, and at the ﬁrst touch had burnt off the rig ht leg

If any lady going up the Nile should be so happy as to be gable to
iron, I should strongly advise her putting up a pair of ﬁat-irons among
Page-75
mrmuoxs son moan. '13

her baggage. If she can also starch, it will add much to her comfort
and that of her party, at a little cost of time and trouble.

We went On board our kandjia to dinner, at two o’clock. and were
oﬂ’ for the entrance of the Cataract. The smallness of our boat, after
our grand dahabieh, was the cause of much amusement, both to-day
and during the fortnight of our Nubian expedition.. In the inner cabin
there was only just room for Mrs. Y. and me by laying our beds close
together; and our dressing-room was exactly a yard square. The
gentlemen’s cabin was somewhat larger; but not roomy enough to ad-
mit of our having our meals them—unless a strong cold wind drove
us in to tea ;—which,I think, happened twice. Our sitting room was
a pretty little vestibule, between the cabins and the deck. This ex-
actly held our table and two chairs ; the other seats being two lockers.
on which were spread gay carpets. When we sat down to our morn-
ing employments, we were careful to bring at once all the books, &c.,
that we were likely to want. as we could not pass in and out without
' compelling our neighbors to rise to make way. For all this, and
though we felt, on our return to our dahabieh, as if we had got from
a coaster into a man-of-war, we were never happier than in our little
kandjia. There was some amusement in roughing it for a fortnight;
and the Nubian part of our voyage was full as interesting as any other.

The Rais of the Cataract was to meet us, the next morning, with
his posse, at a point ﬁxed on, above the ﬁrst rapid, which we were to
surmount ourselves. We appeared to be surmounting it, just at dusk.
Half our crew were hauling at our best rope on the rocks, and the
other half paling on board; and we were slowly,-—-almost impercepti-
bly—making way against the rushing current, and had our bows fairly
through the last mass of foam, when the rope snapped. We swirled
down and away,—none of us knew whither, unless it were to the bot-
tom of the river. This was almost the most anxious moment of our
whole journey; but it was little more than a moment. The boat, in
swinging round at the bottom of the rapid. caught by her stern on a
sand bank: and our new Rais quickly brought her round, and moored
her. in still water, to the bank.

Here we were for the night: and we thought it a pity not to take
advantage of the leisure and the moonlight to visit Philte. So the gen-
tlemen and I crossed the rapids to the main in a punt. mounted capital
asses, and struck across the desert for Mahatta, where we could get a
boat for Philoa. - -

The sun had just set when we left the kandjia; and the Desert looked
superb in the after glow. It had the last depth of coloring l have ever
seen in pictures, or heard described. The clear forms and ravishing
hues make one feel as if gifted with new eyes.

The boat which took us from Maliatta to Philm was too heavy for
her hands, and could hardly stem some of the currents: but at last.
about seven o‘clock, we set our feet on the Holy Island, and felt one
great object of our journey accomplished. What a moment it was,
just before, when we ﬁrst saw Philte, as we came round the point,—
saw the crowd of temples looming in the mellow twilight. And what

f
Page-76
74 smart Luvs.

a moment it was now, when we trod the soil, as sacred to wise old
races of men as Mecca now to the Mohammedan, or Jerusalem to the
Christian ; the huge propyla, the sculptured walls, the colonnades, the
hypaathral“ temple all standing, in full majesty, under a ﬂood of moon-
light! The most sacred of ancient oaths was in my mind all the
while, as if breathed into me from without ;—the awful oath “By Him
who sleeps in Philts." Here, surrounded by the imperishable Nile,
sleeping to the everlasting music of its distant Cataract, and watched
over by his Isis, whose temple seems made to stand for ever, was the
beneﬁcent Osiris believed to lie. There are many Holy Islands scat-
tered about the seas of the world : the very name is sweet to all ears:
but no one has been so long and so deeply sacred as this. The water!
all round were, this night, very still; and the more suggestive were
they of the olden age when they afforded a path for the processions
of grateful worshipers, who came from various points of the mainland,
with their lamps, and their harps, and their gifts, to return thanks for
the harvests which had sprung and ripened at the bidding of the god.
One could see them coming in their boats, there where the last western
light gleamed on the river: one could see them land at the steps at
the end of the colonnade: and one could imagine this great group of
temples lighted up till the prominent sculpture of the walls looked al-
most as bright and real as the moving forms of the actual efferent.—
But the silence and desertion of the place soon made themselves felt.
Our footsteps on the loose stones, and our voices in an occasianal ques-
tion, and the ﬂapping wings of the birds whom we disturbed were
the only sounds: and the lantern which was carried before us in the
shadowy recesses was a dismal light for such a place. I could not.
under the circumstances, make out anything of the disposition of the
buildings: and I think that a visit to Philoe by moonlight had better be
preceded by a visit to Philm by daylight: but I am glad to have seen
the solemn sight, now that I can look back upon it with the fresh eyes
of clear knowledge of the site and its temples.

A kandjia lay under the bank when we arrived. It had brought our
Scotch friends from Mahatta; and we found them in the court of the
hypaethral temple, sitting on the terrace wall in the moonlight,—the
gentlemen with their chibouques,—the ladies with their bonnets in their
hands. Their ﬁrst and last view of Philm was on this lovely night:
and this was our last sight of them. They were to set off down the
river the next morning, at the same hour that we were to begin the
ascent of the Cataract. Our greetings, our jokes, our little rivalries
were all over; and the probability was that we should never meet
again.—How sorry we were for them that they were turning back!
We not only had Nubia, with its very old temples—and above all.
Aboo-SimbilT—full in prospect, but a return to this island, to obtain a
clear knowledge of it. My heart would have been very heavy to-nigllt
if this had been my only view of Philte ;—a view so obscure, so tanta-
lizing. and so oppressive: and I was sorry accordingly for those who
were to see it but once, and thus.

' Hypethral—open to the sky. 1' Ipsamboul.
Page-77
m canine-r. 75

Our desert ride in the moonlight was very ﬁne. among such lights
and shadows as I never saw by night before. We encountered no
hytenas, though our guide carried a musket, in ex ctation that we
should. We crossed the rapids in safety. and reache our boat exces-
sively tired, and the more eager for rest because the next was to be the
greatest day of our journey,—unless perhaps that of our passing Thebes.

 

CHAPTER VII.
ASCENT OF THE CATARACT.

Sucn an event as the ascent of the Cataract can happen but once in
one’s life; and we would not hear of going ashore on any such plea
as that the feat could be better seen from thence. What I wanted was
to feel it. I would have gone far to see a stranger's boat pulled up;
butI would not refuse the fortune of being on board when I could.
We began. however, with going ashore at the Rapid where we failed
the evening before. The rope had been proved untrustworthy; and
there was no other till we joined the Rais of the Cataract. with his
cable and his posse. Our Rais put together three weak ropes, which
were by no means equivalent to one strong one: but the attempt suc-
eeeded.

It was a curious scene,—the appearing of the dusky natives on all
the rocks around; the eager zeal of those who made themselves our
guards, holding us by the arms, as if we were going to jail, and scarcely
permitting us to set our feet to the ground. lest we should fall; and
the daring plunges and divings of man or boy, to obtain our admiration
or our baksheesh. A boy would come riding down a slope of roaring
water as conﬁdently as Iwould ride down a sand-hill on my ass.
Their arms, in their ﬁghting method of swimming, go round like the
spokes of a wheel. Grinning boys poppled in the currents: and little
seven-year-old savages must haul at the ropes, or ply their little poles
when the kandjia approached a spike of rock, or dive to thrust their
shoulders between its keel and any sunken obstacle: and after every
such feat, they would pop up their dripping heads, and cry “bak-
sheesh.” I felt the great peculiarity of this day to be my seeing, for
the ﬁrst, and probably the only time of my life. the perception of sa-
vage faculty: and truly it is an imposing sight. The quickness of
movement and apprehension, the strength and suppleness of frame, and
the power of experience in all concerned this day, contrasted strangely
with images of the bookworm and the professional man at home. who
can scarcely use their own limbs and senses, or conceive of any con-
trol over external realities. I always thought in America, and I always
shall think, that the ﬁnest specimens of human development I have '
seen are in the United States, where every man, however learned and
meditative, can ride, drive, keep his own horse, and roof his own
dwelling: and every woman, however intellectual, can do, if necessary,
Page-78
76 smart un.

all the work of her own house. At home. I had seen one extreme of
power, in the meager helpless beings whose prerogative lies wholly in
the world of ideas: here I saw the other, where the dominion was
wholly over the power of outward nature: and I must say [as heartily
wished for the introduction of some good bodily education at home as
for intellectual enlightenment here. I have as little hope of the one as
of the other; for there is at present no natural necessity for either:
and nothing short of natural compulsion will avail. Gymnastic exer-
cises and ﬁeld sports are matters only of institution and luxury—good
as far as they go, but mere conventional triﬂes in the training of a man
or a nation: and, with all our proneness to toil, I see no prospect of -
any stimulus to wholesome genera] activity arising out of our civiliza-
tion. I wish that, in return for our missions to the heathen, the hea-
thens would send missionaries to us, to train us to a grateful use of
our noble natural endowments—of our powers of sense and limb. and
the functions which are involved in their activity. I am conﬁdent that
our morals and our intellect would gain inestimably by it. There is
no saying how much vicious propensity would be checked. and intelo
lectual activity equalized in us by such a reciprocity with those whose
gifts are at the other extreme from our own.

Throughout the four hours of our ascent. I saw incessantly that
though much is done by sheer force,—by men enough pulling at a.
rope strong enough.—some other requisites were quite as essential ;—
great forecast, great sagacity; much nice management among currents,
and hidden and threatening rocks; and much knowledge of the forces
and subtilties of wind and water. The men were sometimes plunging.
to heave off the boat from a spike or ledge; sometimes swimming to
a distant rock. with a rope between their teeth, which they carried
round the boulders ;—then squatting upon it, and holding the end of
the rope with their feet, toleave their hands at liberty for hauling.
Sometimes a man dived to free the cable from a catch under water;
then he would spring on board, to pole at any critical pass : and then
ashore, to join the long ﬁle who were pulling at the cable. Then there
were their patience and diligence—very remarkable when we went
round and round an eddy many times, after all but succeeding, and
failin again and again from the malice of the wind. Once this hap-
pene for so long, and in such a boisterous eddy, that we began to
wonder what was to he the end of it. Complicated as were the cur-
rents in this spot, we were four times saved from even grazing the
rocks, when, after having nearly got through, we were borne back, and
swung round to try again. The ﬁfth time, there came a faint breath
of wind, which shook our sail for a moment, and carried us over the
ridge of foam. What a shout there was when we turned into still
water! The last ascent but one appeared the most wonderful,—the
passage was, twice over, so narrow,—barely admitting the kandjia,—
the promontory of rock so sharp, and the gush of water so strong ; but
the big rope, and the mob of haulers on the shore and the islets heaved
us up steadily. and as one might say, naturally,—-as if the boat took
her course advisedly.
Page-79
THE CATARAC'I'. 7']

Though this passage appeared to us the most dangerous, it was at
the last that the Rais of the Cataract interfered to request us to step
ashore. We were very unwilling; but we could not undertake the
responsibility of opposing the local pilot. He said it was mere force
that was wanted here, the difficulty being only from the rush of the
waters, and not from any complication of currents. But no man
would undertake to say that the rope would hold; and if it did not,
destruction was inevitable. The rope held; we saw the boat drawn
up steadily and beautifully; and the work was done. Mr. E., who
has great experience in nautical affairs, said that nothing could be
cleverer than the management of the whole business. He believed
that the feat could be achieved nowhere else, as there are no such
swimmers elsewhere.

, The mob who took charge of us on the rocks were horribly noisy;
the granite we trod on was burning hot, shining and slippery: the
light, at an hour after noon, was oppressive: and the wildness of the
scenery and of the thronging people was bewildering. The clamor
was the worst; and for four hours there was no pause. This is,I
think, the only thing in the whole affair really trying to a person of
good nerves. The cries are‘like those of rage and fear; and one has
to remind one’s self incessantly that this is only the people’s way:
and then the clamor goes for nothing. When they do speak gently,as
to tie on matters of business, their voices are agreeable enough, and
some very sweet.—Most of the throng to-day were quite black: some
tawny. One man looked very odd. His complexion was chocolate
color, and his breast and top~knot red.‘

We returned to the boat heated and thirsty, and quite disposed far
wine and water. The critical passage of four hours was over; but the
Rais of the Cataract did not leave us till we were off Mahatta, there
being still much skill and labor required to pass us through the yet
troubled waters. Our boat rolled a good deal, having but little ballast
as yet: and when we were about to go to dinner, a lurch caused the
breakage of some soup plates and other ware: so we put 03‘ dinner till
we should be at Philoa, where we were to complete our ballast.—
Meantime, we had the poor amusement of seeing a ﬁght on share,—
the Rais and his men q'narreling ab0ut the backsheesh. The pay of
the Rais and his men was included in the contract for the kandjia: but
of course the Rais asked for backsheesh. He was oﬁ'ered ten piastres.
and refused them; then a bottle of wine, which he put under his arm,
demanding the ten piastres too. Then he refused both, and went oﬂ' ;
but returned for the money ; and ended by ﬁghting about the division
of it. The amount is small to contend about; but travelers should
remember those who come after tlfem, and the real good of the natives ;
and not give way to encroachment, to save a little trouble.

It was four o’clock when we moored at Philce under what once was
'the great landing place of the island, on the east side. The hypsethral
'temple, vulgarly called Pharaoh’s Bed, stood conspicuous on the height

above us: and we ran up to it after sunset, while the last of our ballast
was stowing,—glad of every opportunity of familiarizing our minds

.f"
Page-80
78 annex am.

with the aspect of the island, before returning to explore the remains
in due order.—We had seen nothing more beautiful anywhere than
what was before us this evening on our departure by moonlight. The
pillars of the open temple ﬁrst, and then the massive propyla of the
great temple stood up against the soft, clear sky. and palms fringed
every bank, and crowned every little eminence. The wildness of the
rocky boundary was lost by this light. We felt that we had, for the
present. done with rapids and islands: we were fairly in Nubia, and
were now passing into the broad full stream of the Nile, here calmer
than ever. from being so near the dam of the islands. The Lybian
range shone distinctly yellow by moonlight. I thought that I had
never heard of color by moonlight before ; and I was sure I had never
seen it. Now my eyes feasted on it night by night. The eﬂ'ect of
palm clumps standing up before these yellow back-grounds, which are
themselves hounded by a line of purple hills, with silver stars hanging
above them, and mysterious heavenly lights gushing up from behind
all, exceeds in rich softness any coloring that sunshine can show.

 

CHAPTER VIII.
NUBIA.—THE SECOND CATARACT.

We were not long in ﬁnding how different Nubia is from the lower
part of the Nile valley, both in its aspect and its people. We
soon began to admire these poor Berbers. for their industry and thrift.
their ap arent contentment, and their pleasant countenancea. The
blue undiarlip of the women, some tattoo marks here and there,
nose rings, and hundreds of tiny braids of hair, all shining and some
dripping with castor oil. might seem likely to make these people ap-
pear ugly enough to English eyes: but the open good humor of most
of their countenances, and the pathetic thoughtfulness of many, ren-
dered them interesting, I may say charming to us ;—to say nothing of
the likeness we were constantly tracing in them to the most ancient
sculptured faces of the temples. The dyed underlip was the greatest
drawback; perhaps from its having a look of disease. The women
wore silver bracelets almost universally; and a quantity of bead neck-
laces. They swathed themselves suﬂiciently in their blue garments
without covering their faces. The men wore very little clothing: the
children. for the most part, none at all, except that the girls had a sort
of leather fringe tied round the loins. Sometimes the people would
run away from us, or be on the start to do so, as we were walking on
the shore. Sometimes the women would permit us to bid for their
necklaces, or would offer matting or baskets for sale. Sometimes we
found their huts empty,—left open while the family were out at work:
and we were glad of such an opportunity of examining their dwellings,
and forming some notion of their household economy.

The ﬁrst we entered in the absence of the inmates was a neat
Page-81
mean. 79

house,——the walls mud. and narrowing upwards, so as to give the
building a slightly pyramidal form. Mud walls, it must be remembered, ‘
are in Nubia quite a different aﬂ‘air from what they are in rainy coun-
tries. The smooth plastering gives the dwelling a neat appearance,
inside and out: and it is so ﬁrmly done, and so secure from wet in that
climate, as not to crumble away, or, apparently, to give out dust, as it
would with ns.—'I‘he ﬂat roof of this house was neatly made of palm:
the stems lying along, and the fronds forming a sort of thatch. A
deewan of mud was raised along the whole of both the side walls; and
two large jars, not of the same size, were ﬁxed at the end; one, no
doubt. to hold water; the other. grain. The large jar for grain is often
fixed outside the house, opposite the door: and we were assured that
it is never plundered. Some dwellings have partitions, one or two feet
high, separating, as we sup ose. the sleeping-places of the family. If
the peasant has the rare ortuue of possessing a cow and calf, or if
there is an ex in the establishment, .to work the sakia, there is a mud
shed, with a ﬂat roof like the house. The fences are of dry millet
stalks. which rise from eleven to fourteen feet high. In the garden or
ﬁeld plot is often seen a pillar of stones. whereon stands the slinger,
whose business it is to scare away the birds from the crops. The
ﬁeld plot is often no more than a portion of the sloping river bank. At
the season of our visit the plots were full of wheat, barley and lupins.
The kidney bean, with a purple blossom and very dark leaves, was
beautiful: and so were the castor oil and cotton plants.

Behind the dwelling which we visited, the dark stony desert came
down to the very path : and among its scattered rocks lay, not at once
distinguishable to the eye, the primitive burying ground of the region.
The graves were marked out with ovals of stones; and thorns were
laid thick on the more recent ones. A dreary place it looked for the
dead to lie in: but the view from it was beautiful; and especially of
the hedgelike Lybian bank over the ‘river, where the fringe of mimosas
was all overgrown and compacted with bindweed of the brightest green.

I do not at present see that much can be done for the N ubians, as
there certainly may for the Egyptians. In Egypt. the population once
amouukd to 8,000,000. or nearly so; while now it is supposed to be
not more than 2,600,000: and there seems no reason why it should
not. with the knowledge and skill of our own time, rise to what it once
was, and exceed it. Everywhere there are tokens, even to the care-
less eye of a passing traveler. of land let out of cultivation,—yielded up
without a struggle to the great old enemy. the Desert; and even to the
encroachments of the friendly Nile. There are signs that drainage is
as much wanted as irrigation. However much the natural face of the
country may be supposed to have changed, there is abundant evidence
of wilful and careless lapse. In Nubia it is far otherwise. There, not
only are the villages diminutive,—almost too small to be called ham-
lets,—and the sprinkling of people between them is so scanty as barely
to entitle the country to be called inhabited, but this is clearly from the
scarcity of cultivable land. That it was always so is hardly conceiv-
able when we think of the number of temples still visible between the
Page-82
80 mas-rm urn.

ﬁrst and second cataracts, and the many villages declared by Pliny to
have studded both shores: but that it is to be helped now,I do not see
how any one can show who has beheld the hopeless yellow desert.
with its black volcanic rocks, coming .down to the very river. As the
people have no raw material for any manufacture, it is not easy to tell
how they could prosper by other kinds of industry, if Egypt supplied
them ever so plentifully with food. It appeared to us that they were
diligent and careful in making the most of What they have. As soon
as we crossed their frontier, we saw the piers which they make.—the
stone barriers built out into the stream to arrest the mud as it is carried
down, and thus obtain new land. There are so many of these as to
be mischievous in some parts; as, when these piers are opposite to each
other, they alter the currents. and narrow the river.—We saw dusky
laborers on the banks, toiling with the hoe, to form the soil into ter-
races and ledges, so as to make the most of it. From their diligence.
it seems as if the Nubians had sufﬁcient security to induce them to
work : and their appearance is that of health, cheerfulness and content.
What more can be done for them, beyond perhaps improving their
simple arts of life, it is diﬂicult to say.

Simple enough, indeed. are their arts. Early one morning, when
walking ashore, I came upon a loom which would excite the astonish-
ment of my former fellow-townsnten, the Norwich weavers. A little
pit was dug in the earth under a palm ;—a pit just big enough to hold
the treadles and the feet of the weaver, who sits on the end of the pit.
The beam was made of a slender palm stem, ﬁxed into two blocks.
The treadles were made of spines of the palm ﬁxed into bits of
stick. The shuttle was,I think. a forked twig. The cotton yarn was
even, and the fabric good; that is evenly, woven. It was, though
coarse. so thin that one might see the light through: but that was in-
tended, and only appropriate to the climate. I might have wondered
at such a fabric proceeding from such an apparatus,“ I had not remem-
bered the mnslins of India, produced in looms as rude as this. It ap-
pears too, from the paintings in the tombs, that the old Egyptian looms
were of nearly as simple a construction, though the people were cele-
brated for their exports of ﬁne linen and woolen stuﬂ‘s. The stout-
looking gay checkered sails of the boats, and the diversiﬁed dresses of
the people represented in the tombs, were no doubt the produce of the
rude looms painted up beside them. The baskets made by the Na-
bians are strong and good. Their mats are neat; but neither so ser-
viceable nor so pretty as those of India: but then these people have
not such material as the Hindoos. Their rope making is a pretty
sight ;--prettier even than an English ropewslk; though that is a treat
to the eye. We often saw men thus employed,—one end of their
strands being tied to the top of a tall palm, while they stood at the
other, throwing the strands round till they would twist no more.

As for the rent paid by the Nubians for their land.—what we learned
is this: but it must be observed that it is very difﬁcult. in these coun-
tries, to obtain reliable information. In the most civilized parts, there
are so few data, and in the more primitive, the people are so little in
Page-83
mu. 81

the habit of communicati with persons who are not familiar with
their condition and ways,nti)at it is scarcely possible to ﬁnd any uni-
formity of testimony on any matters of custom or mangemenu—even
the simplest. When the people tell of their taxes. the English traveler
ﬁnds them so enormous that he is incredulous, or too indignant to carry
away any accurate knowledge of the facts, unless he remembers that
taxes in Egypt are not the same thing as taxes in Europe.

As I understand the matter, it is thus, with regard to these Nubians.
The Pasha holds the whole land and river of Egypt and Nubia in fee-
simple, except as much as he has given away, for its revenues. to fa-
vored individuals: and his rents are included in what are called his taxes.
In Egypt, the people pay tax on the land. In Nubia, they pay it on the
sakias and palms. The palms, when large, pay a piastre and a quar-
ter (about 3d.) each, per annum: when small, three-fourths of a iastre.
Each .saltia pays ‘a tax of three hundred and ﬁfty piastres, or 3 . 108.;
and the .payer may appropriate as much land as the sakia will water.
The quantity taken is usually from eight hundred to twelve hundred
square yards.

The mode of collecting the taxes is quite another matter. By cor-
ruption in [the agents, or a bad practice of taking the amount in kind,
or on account, the collector ﬁxing the marketable value of the produce.
there may be cruel oppression. In Egypt, it is certain this oppression
does exist to a dreadful extent. We did not happen to hear of it in
Nubia; andI cannot say how it is there. But, be it as it may, it is a
diﬂ'erent question from the amount of tax.

What the peasant actually pays for is the land, as above mentioned,
the water-wheel itself, the excavation in which it works, the shed under
which it stands, and the ox or pair of oxen by which it is driven.
How far his bar ainanswers to him must depend on the marketable
value of his pro tree, in a country little affected by variations of sea-
sons. He has not, however, the advantage of an open market. There
is nobody at hand to buy, unless by the accident of a trading kandjia
coming by; and he has not usually the means of sending far. The
tax-collector must therefore commonly be his market; and not such an
one as to enable the stranger to estimate his aﬁ‘airs with any accuracy.
All we could do was to observe whether he seemed to have enough of
his produce left over for the support of his family, and whether his
land appeared to: be well tilled. I can only repeat that the pee le
we saw in Nubia looked generally healthful and contented; andt at
they seemed to be making the most of their little belts and corners of
cultivable land. It is to be observed, however, that we remarked a
great number of ruined villages, and that we could obtain no answer
from either dragoman or Rais as to how this happened. They de-
clared they did not know; and, for once, Alee had neither information
nor theory to oﬁ‘er. Which was the popular enemy. the desert or the
Pasha. I cannot undertake to say.

Our kandjia was hired for twenty-ﬁve days, for the sum of 131. 10s.;
this including all the charges of ascending the cataract, and of the crew
(eight men) except the steersmau. Of these eight men, I think four

6
Page-84
82 smart urn.

were from our dahabieh. Our rais and the rest of our crew were left
at Aswan, in charge of the boat and such of our property as we did
not take with us. Among those whom we carried up were two of our
quiet. serviceable Nubians. Among those who remained behind was
the buck, as we called him; perhaps the least serviceable of the whole
crew, and certainly the least quiet and most troublesome; but he was
so extremely amusing with his pranks that we missed him, during this
fortnight, more than we should a better lad. Our other buffoon was
with us, the cook. An excellent cook he was; but I do not know that
he was much else, except a long story-teller and a~consummate cox-
comb. He was a bad riser in this (to him) winter weather; not a
good hand at giving us breakfast early; and we were therefore not
sorry that he declined going through the desert with us afterwards.
The manner of declining, however, smacked of his coxcombry. “I!"
said he. "I go through ,the desert to Syria! No. no; it is all very
well for these English, whom nobody inquires after, to go and be killed
in Syria; but I am a man whose life is of importance to his family.
They may go without me.” And we went with a better man in his
place. During this Nubian voyage, however, he was in his glory—
among stranger comrades who would listen to his long stories. A: I

sat on deck in the evenings, I used to see him at the bows, ﬂattering,

himself that he was doing his proper work; holding by the wings a
poor ﬂuttering turkey about to have his throat cut, and brandishing his
great glittering knife. in the energy of his story-telling. How many
times have I chafed at the suspense of one poor bird after another. thus
held, head downwards, till the magniloquent cook should have ﬁnished
his anecdote! He fed us well, however, making a variety very hon-
orable to him in the mutton. {owls and eggs which we lived on during
the voyage. Beef and veal have been out of the question since the
murrain in 1843. Since that time, the cattle have not been enough to
work the sakias. and of course there are none for food. Mr. Y. once
had the luck to fall in with a piece of beef—at least we were assured
it was beef—but the only good we got out of it was a lesson not to
look for beef any more. There is great variety to be made out of a
sheep. however, as our cook continually proved to us. I have said that
he succeeded well in our Christmas plum-pudding. The only ﬁre we
had last winter was that which he made with a pool of brandy in the
middle of our pudding. Almost the only failure he made was with a
goose which we got at Thebes. We thought much of this goose, as a
change from the everlasting {owls and turkeys: but the cook boiled it,
and it looked anything but tempting. His excuse was that he feared.
if he roasted it, that it would be “stiﬁ'”-—meaning tough.

All the people on board, and we ourselves, found the weather cold
in Nubia; that is, in the evenings and mornings, for at noon it was hot
enough to make us glad of fans and water-melon. We entered the tro-
pic at three r. at. of December 30th, and from that time till our return.
we seemed sentenced to shiver early and late, in cold strong winds,
such as we had hardly met with in the more northerly parts of the
river. But the mild nights when we were at anchor were delicious—
Page-85
man. 88

none more so than that of the ﬁrst day of this year. We sauntered
along the camel-track which ran between the shore and the ﬁne over-
han ing rocks of the Arabian Desert. The brilliant moonlight cast deep
sha ows on the sand, and showed us what mighty blocks had fallen,
and how others were about to fall. These African nights, soft, lustrous
and silent. are worth crossing the World to feel. We met a party of
three men, a boy and a donkey—one of the men carrying a spear.
They returned our greeting courteously, but stopped to look after us
in surprise. Their‘tread and ours was noiseless on the sand, and the
only sound within that wide horizon was of a haying dog, far away on
the opposite shore.

The next morning we passed Korosko. and saw the surveying ﬂag
of M. Arnault, and the tents of his party of soldiers; but we could not
learn how his survey and his search for water proceeded, in prepara-
tion for his road to the Red~Sea. We were passing temples, from stage
to stage, all the way up-—and very clearly we saw them—each stand-
ing on its platform of sand or rock; but we left them, all for examination
on our return. This return must now be soon; we sighed to think
how soon, when we met on the morning of January 3d, the two boats
of a party who told us that, if we wished to send letters to England.
we must prepare them, as some gentlemen were at Aboo-Simbil, and
would presently be passing us. The great temple of Aboo-Simbil, the
chief object of our Nubian voyage, and almost at the extremity of it, so
near us! It damped our spirits; but we wrote our letters, and before
we had done the expected boat came up. We little thought that morn-
ing, any of us, that our three parties would join in the desert, and that
we should live together in Arabia for ﬁve weeks. Yet so it turned
out.

I had been watching the winds and the hours in the fear that we
should pass,Aboo—Simbil in the dark. But when I came on deck, on
the morning of the 4th. I found, to my great joy, that we were only a.
few miles from it, while a fresh breeze was carrying us well on our
course. We passed it before breakfast.

The facade is visible from a considerable distance; and as soon as it
becomes visible, it ﬁxes the eye by the singularity of such an object as
this smoothed recess of the rugged rock. 1 found it unlike what I ex-
pected, and unlike,l thought, all the representations of it that I had
seen. The portal looked low in proportion to the colossi; the facade
was smaller, or at least narrower, than I had supposed; and the colossi
much nearer together. The white-wash which Champollion (it is
said) left on the face of the northernmost colossus, has the curious
eﬁ‘ect of bringing out the expression of countenance, so as to be seen
far off. Nothing can be more strange then so extremely distinct a re-
velation of a face, in every feature, perhaps a mile oﬁ'. It is stranger
than the ﬁrst apparition of the goodly proﬁle of the bronze Bore
romeo, near Lago Maggiore; because not only the outline of the fea~
tures stands out clear, but every prominence and shadow of the face.
The expression of this colossus is very agreeable; it is so tranquil and
cheerfuL We had not yet experienced the still stranger sensation of

r
Page-86
OI suns: ms.

seeing a row of statues precisely alike in all respects. We did not
feel it now: for one of the faces being white, and another being broken.
and many details lost by distance, the resemblance was not complete
enough to cause in us that singular emotion.

The smaller temple of “ the Lady of Aboshek,"—Athor—beside the
large one, is very striking. as seen from the river. The six statues on
the facade stand out boldly between buttresses; and their reclining
backwards against the rock has a curious effect. All about both tem-
ples ale inscribed tablets, which look like doors opening into the rock.
We had now seen, for the ﬁrst time,a rock temple: and we were glad
that it was the noblest that we saw ﬁrst. In estimating it, we must
remember what Ethiopia was to the Egyptians of its time. The in-
scription “foreign land” is appended to the titles of Athor in the
smaller temple: and the establishment of these ediﬁces here is what it
would have been to the Romans who, conquering Great Britain, should
have carried their most solemn worship to the Orkneys, and enthroned
it there in the noblest ediﬁce they could erect. But we could not fully
estimate this will we had examined the temple on our return: nor can
my readers do so till the time comes for a fuller account of Me great
works.

The wind was favorable all day. and at night, as we approached
Wadee Haifa, very strong. It is to be wished that we had some full
meteorological reports of these regions, both for the sake of science
and the guidance of travelers. Every voyager-.1 believe, speaks of
strong wind, and, in the traveling season, north wind, near Wadee
Hall's. Has any one heard of calm weather there? On inquiry, on
the spot, we were told that there is almost always a strong wind, and
frequent gales: sometimes from the south. but usually from the north.
This night we had experience of a Nile gale.

Our sail was rarely tied, any part of the way; and our Nubian Rain
had it always held. To-night it was held by a careful personage, who
minded his business. First, our foresail was taken in, as the wind
rose. Then we went sounding on, the poles on each side being kept
constantly going. Nevertheless, we struck on a sandbanlt with a great
shock, and the main-sail was let ﬂy. Half-a-dozen poor fellows, al-
read shivering with cold, went over the side, and heaved us off. The
win continued to rise; the night was growing dark; and presently
we nded again. The sail was let go; but it would not ﬂy. The
win strengthened; the sail was obstinate, and the men who had
sprung aloft to furl it could not get it in. We seemed to be slowly but
surely gain over: and for several minutes (along time in such cir-
cumstaneesf it seemed to me that our only chance was in the mud-
hank on which we had struck being within our depth. But it was a
poor chance; for there was deep water and a strong current between
us and the shore: and it was in an uninhabited part of the country.
Of our own party, no one spoke. Mr. E. was the only one of us
who understood these matters; and as he stood on the watch, we
would not interrupt him by questions, Indeed, the ease was plain
enough; and I saw under his calmness that he felt this to be, as he
Page-87
man. 85

afterwards told me; the most anxious momentof our adventures. Ales
ﬂew about giving orders amidst the rush of the wind; and the cook
worked at the poling with all his strength. Even at such a moment I
could not but be struck with the lights from the kitchen and the cabin
shining on the struggling men and restless sail which were descending
together to the water, and on the ﬁgures of the Rais, Aloe and another, -
as they stood on the gunwale, hauling at a rope which was fastened to
the top of the mast. Amidst the many risks of the moment, the chief
was that our tackle would not hold : and a crack was heard now and
then among other awful noises. By this time, the inclination of the
deck was such that it was impossible to stand. and I had to cling with
all my strength to the window of the vestibule. For some time, the
Rsis feared to quit his hold of the rope on the gunwale; but at last he
ﬂung it away. threw at? his clothes in a single instant. and sprang up
the mast like a cat. His strong arms were what was wanted aloft.
The sail was got in, and we righted. The standing straight on we’-
feet was like a strange new sensation after such a peril. ‘

It was still some time before we were aﬂoat again; and our crew
were busy in the water till we were quite sorry for them. When we
drifted off at last, our sail was spread again. and we went seething on
through the opposing currents to ﬁnd our proper anchorage at Wadee
Halfs. And there again we had almost as much difﬁculty as before
in getting in our sail. This is the worst of the latteen sails which
look so pretty, and waft one on so well. We were wrenched about,
and carried down some way before we could tumor.

The next morning .was almost as cold as the night: but we preferred
this to heat, as our business to-day was to ride through the western
desert to the rock of AbooseeF—the furthest point of our African travel.
Before breakfast, the gentlemen took a short walk-on shore, being
carried over the intervening mud. They saw a small village, and a
school of six scholars. The boys wrote, to the master's dictation,
with reed pens, on tablets of wood, smoothed over with some white
substance. They wrote readily, and apparently well. The lesson
was from the Kuiin; and the master delivered it in a chanting tone.

Two extremely small asses were brought down, to cross with us to
the western bank. We crossed in a ferry-boat, whose sail did not
correspond very well with the climate. It was like a lace veil mended
with ticking. Our ﬁrst visit was to the scanty remains of an interest-
ing old temple near the landing-place. On our way to it, we passed
some handsome children, and a charming group of women under a
large sycamore. We thought the people we saw here—(the most
southerly we should ever see)-open-faced and good-looking. There
are large cattle-yards and sheds in this scarcely-inhabited spot, which
the Pasha has made a halting-place for his droves of cattle from Don-

ola. He continues to import largely from thence, to make up his
osses from the murrain of 1843. We saw two large droves of as
noble beasts as can be seen.

Near the remains of two other unmarked and less interesting build-
ings stand the columns of the temple begun, if not wholly erected by
Page-88
so asst-ant am.

two of the Theban kings, soon after the expulsion of the Shepherd
race. The dates exist in the hieroglyphic inscriptions of the pillars.
This temple was built when the great ediﬁces ol' Thebes were, for the
most part, unthought of. El-Kamac was begun—its more humble halls;
and El-Uksur might be surveyed, by that time, as a ﬁtting site for a
temple to answer to El-Karnac, but the El-Kumeh temple and the
Ramaséum were not conceived of ; for the sovereigns who built them
were not born. The Memnon statues were yet in the quarry. The
Pyramids were, it is now thought, about two thousand years old: and
about this time Moses was watching the erection of the great obelisk
(which we call Cleopatra’s Needle) at Heliopolis. where he studied.
If learned men are right in saying that the Philistines' were of the
race expelled from Thebes. they had, by the time this temple was
built, settled themselves under the Lebanon and along the southern
Syrian coasts, whence they were to be driven out when Moses should
be in his grave. If. as some poets tell. Egyptus and Cadmus were
among the Shepherd intruders driven out from the Thebaid, the ﬁfty
nieces of the one had by this time murdered his sons. their husbands,
and the dragon’s teeth of the other had sprung up into armed men.
It is worth while to mention such fables as these last under their as-
signed dates; because we learn thereby to value as we ought the tan-
gible and reliable records we meet in the Egyptian monuments, in
contrast with the dim traditions of later born nations. We may also
gather useful hints on the history and philosophy of art and science.
mm the mythi and the monuments together. There is writing on this
temple: there is writing on the much-older Pyramids: and it was only
at the time of the erection of this temple that letters were carried into
Greece. Here is a pillar which is believed to have suggested, in a
subsequent age. the Doric column; the oldest of Greek pillars. Here it
stands, remarkable for its many-sided form. It was to us now the
oldest we had ever seen; but we afterwards saw some, more pre-
cisely what is called Doric. in the tombs of Benee Hasan. The columns
of this temple are little more than bases. They are nearly all of the
same height: some like mere heaps of stone; others bearing unin-
jured inscriptions. They are small remains: but long may they last!
They are the ultimate record of their kind on the ordinary route of
Nile travelers, and usually the ﬁrst subject to their examination.

Our ride to the rock of Abooseer occupied an hour and a half.
Thanks to the cool north wind. we highly enjoyed it. Our way lay
through a complete desert, over sand hills. and among stony tracts,
where scarcely a trace of vegetation is to be seen. In such places
the coloquintus is a welcome object, with its thick. milky leaves and
stalks, and its velvet blossom. The creeping. thorny coloqnintids.too,
with its bitter apples, is a handsome plant: or it looked so to us. in

' Herodotus tells Its (II. 128) that the Egyptians so hated the Pharaohs who
built the two largest pyramids, that they would not pronounce their names; but
called those ediﬁces “by the name of the shepherd Philitis, who in those times led
his ﬂocks tnpasture in their neighborhood.” Is the slyness of this notice attributable
to the priests or the prudential historian ’5
Page-89
noon on noose“. 8.7

the absence of others. Here and there amidst the dreary expanse, or
half hidden in some sandy dell, lay the bleached skeleton of a camel.
The only living things seen were a brood of partridges and a jerboap-
a graceful and most agile little creature. whose long extended tail, with
its tufted end, gave it a most distinctive appearance. Some of our
people started 03' in pursuit, and would not give up for a long time,
making extreme eﬁ‘orts to keep the little creature in view, and drive
it in one another's way; but it baﬂied them at last, and got back to
its hole. ‘

We rode to the foot of the rock of Abooseer, and then ascended
it-—in rather heavy spirits. knowing that this was to be our last look
southwards. The summit was breezy and charming. I looked down
the precipice on which I stood, and saw a sheer descent to the Nile
of two hundred feet. The waters were gushing past the foot of this
almost perpendicular crag: and from holes in its strata ﬂew out ﬂocks
of pigeons, blue in the sunshine. The scene all round under that .
wide heaven was wild beyond description. There was no moving
creature visible but ourselves and the pigeons; and no trace of human
habitation but the ruins of two mud huts. and of a while building on
the Arabian shore. The whole scene was composed of desert, river,
and black basaltic rocks. Round to the north, from the south-west,
there is actually nothing to be seen but blackish. sand-streaked rocks
near at hand, and sandy desert further off. To the north-east, the
river winds away, blue and full, between sands. Two white sails
were on it at the moment. From the river, a level sand extended
to the soft-tinted Arabian hills, whose varied forms and broken lights
and shadows were on the horizonnearly from the north round to the
southeast. These level sands then give place to a black rugged sur-
face, which extends to where two summits,—to-day of a bright amethyst
hue,—close the circuit of vision. These summits are at a considerable
distance onAthe way to Dongola. The river is hidden among the black
rocks to the south, and its course is not traceable till it peeps out, blue
and bright, in two or three places, and hides itself again among the
islets. It makes a great bend while thus hidden, and reappears much
more to the east. It has now reached the part properly called the
Second Cataract; and it comes sweeping down towards the rock on
which we stood, dashing and driving among its thousand islets, and
then gathering its thousand currents into one, to proceed calmly on its
course. Its waters were turbid in the rapids, and looked as muddy
where they poured down from shelf or boulder as in the Delta itself;
but in all its calm reaches it reﬂected the sky in a blue so deep as it
would not do to paint. The islets were of fantastic forms,—worn by
the cataracts of ages: but still, the outlines were angular, and the black
ledges were graduated by the action of the waters, as if they had been
soft sand. On one or two islands 1 saw what I at ﬁrst took for millet-
patches: but they were only coarse grass and reeds. A sombre
brownish tamarisk, or dwarfed mimosa, put up its melancholy head
here and there; and this was all the vegetation apparent within that
wide horizon.—I doubt whether a more striking scene than this, to
Page-90
88 mun.

English eyes, can be anywhere found. It is thoroughly African,
thoroughly tmpicsl, very beautifulf—most majestic, and most desolate.
Something of the impression m' t be owing to the circumstances of
leave-taking under which we loo ed abroad from our station: but still.
if I saw this scene in an unknown land in a dream, I am sure I should
be powerfuﬂy moved by it. This day, it certainly interested me more
than the First Cataract.

l was tempted by the invitation of a sort of cairn on the top of a
hill not far inland. to go there; and thence I obtained mother glimpse
of the Lybian Desert, and saw two more purple peaks rising west-
wards, soft and clear.

There is a host of names carved on the accessible side of Abooseer.
We looked with interest on Belzoni’s and some few others. We cut
ours with a nail and hammer. Here, and here only, I left my name.
On this wild rock, and at the limit of our range of travel, it seemed
not only natural, but right to some who may come after us. Our names
will not be found in any temple or tomb. If we ever do such a thing,
may our names be publicly held up to shame, as I am disposed to
publish those of the carvers and scribblers who have forfeited their
right to privacy by inscribing their names where they can never be
eﬁ'aced!

The time arrived when we must go. It was with a heavy heart
that I quitted the rock, turned my back on the south, and rode away.

We found our boat prepared in the usual manner for the descent of
the river—the mainmast removed, and laid along overhead, to support
the awning; the kitchen shifted and turned; and the planks of the
decks taken up to form seats for the rowers, so as sadly to restrict our
small space. One of our dishes at dinner was an excellent omelette,
made of part of the contents of an ostrich’s egg. Two of these eggs
were bought for six piastres, (ls. 2d.) The contents were obtained
by boring a hole with a gimlet. The contents of this egg were found
to be equal to twenty-nine of the small heu’s eggs of this part of the
country.

We began our return voyage about 6 r. m, ﬂoating, sometimes
broadside down, and sometimes in towards the bank, when it became
the business of the rowers to bring us out again into the middle of the
stream. The wind was hostile, cold, and strong enough to be inces-
santly shoving us aside. Our progress was very slow. The ﬁrst night
we moored at six miles only from Wadee Hall's.

The next evening (January 6th) we were within half an hour of
Aboo-Simbil, when duty ordered me to my cabin. When I left the
deck, the moon had risen, the rocks were closing in, and the river was
like a placid lake.

in the morning we were to enter upon a new kind of life, as travel-
ers. We were to begin our course of study of the Monuments.
Page-91
menu-r moms. 8!

CHAPTER IX.

HISTORICAL SKETCH, FROM MENES TO THE ROMAN OCCUPATION
' OF EGYPT.

Barons entering upon the study of the Monuments, it seems neces-
sary to obtain something like an orderly view of the state of the coun-
try before and during their erection. At best, our conceptions must
be obscure enough; but we can form none unless we arrange in our
minds what we know of the history of Egypt, of which these monu-
ments are at once the chief evidence and the eternal illustration.

The early history of Egypt differs from that of every other ex-
plored country in the nature of its records. Elsewhere, we derive all
our knowledge from popular legends, which embody the main ideas to
be preserved in forms which are not, and were never meant to be his-
torically true. It is the business of the philosophical historian to
separate the true ideas from their environment of ﬁction, and to mark
the time when the narrative, from being mythical becomes historically
true—to classify the two orders of ancient historians—both inestima-
ble in their way—the Poets who perpetuate national Ideas, and the
Historians who—perpetuate national Facts. With regard to Egypt, we
are in possession of as much of this early material as any nation has
furnished; and we have the monuments besides.

These monuments consist of buildings or excavations—of the sculp-
tures upon them—and of their inscriptions. From the ediﬁces or caves
we may learn much of the condition, mind. and manners of the people
who wrought them, and, if their dates can be obtained, in historical
order. From their sculptures we may learn much of the personages.
divine and human. about whom they thought most; and their inscrip-
tions are of inestimable use in identifying these personages, and in de-
claring their dates. ‘ Being thus in possession of mythical legends, of
the writings of historians, and of ediﬁces and excavations covered with
sculptures and inscriptions, we are as well supplied with records of the
early history of Egypt as we can probably ever be with regard to any
ancient people; and better than we yet are with regard to any other
of the nations of the old world.

The legends relating to ancient Egypt are preserved in the works of
its historians. It is the business of modern inquirers to separate them
from the true historical material, and to extract from them, where pos-
sible, the essential Ideas which they embody. '

The chief historians of Egypt are Hecataeus of Miletus, who was
at Thebes about half a century before Herodotus, and some fragments
of whose writings have come down to usz—Herodotus, from whom
we learn more than from any other :—the writer of the book of Gene-
sis :--Hecaueus of Abdera, from whose narrative extracts may be found
Page-92
. in the works of Diodorus Siculus—Manetho, an Egyptian. of whom
also we have only extracts in other authors; but who supplies very
valuable information—Emmsthenes of Cyrene, whose writings are at
once illustrative of those of Manetho and a check upon them ; Diodo-
rus Siculus. who traveled in Egypt, and wrote a history of it. rather
more than half a century before the Christian era; Strabo. who has
left us a full account of what he saw in Egypt. between Alexandria
and the First Cataract—and Abdallatif, an Arabian physician, who sup-
plies a valuable report of the state of the Nile Valley and its people
when he visited them in the twelfth century. It is the business of
modern inquirers to separate what these historians derived from the
depositories of the national mythi from what they personally observed;
to compare their works with one another. and to apply them as a key
(where this can be done), to the monumental records.

As to the use of the monumental records, several precautions are ne~
cesary. Modern inquirers must beware of interpreting what they see
by their own favorite ideas.—as travelers do who contrive to see He-
brew groups among the Egyptian sculptures :—-they must diligently
and patiently work out the knowledge of the ancient language and its
signs. and beware of straining the little they know of these, to accom~
modate any historical theory they may carry in their minds :—aud they
must remember that the ediﬁce and its sculptures are uotalways of the
same date, and that therefore what is true of the one is not necessarily
true of the other.

Without going into any detail (which would ﬁll a volume if entered
upon at all) about the respective values of these authorities. and their »
agreements and conﬂicts, I may give a slight sketch of what competent
modern inquirers believe we have learned from them.

For our ﬁrst glimpse into ancient Egyptian life we must go back upon
the track of Time far further than we have been accustomed to sup-
pose that track to extend. People who had believed all their lives
that the globe and man were created together, were startled when the
new science of geology revealed to them the great fact that man is a
comparatively new creation on the earth. whose oceans and swamps
and jungles were aforetime inhabited by monsters never seen by human
eye but in their fossil remains. People who enter Egypt with the be-
lief that the human race has existed only six thousand years, and that
at that date. the world was uninhabited by men. except within a small
circuit in Asia, must undergo a somewhat similar revolution of ideas.
All new research operates to remove further back the date of the forma-
tion of the Egyptian empire. The differences between the dates given
by legendary records and by modern research (with the help of cotem-
porary history) are very great: but the one agrees as little as the other
wlilh the popular notion that the human race is only six thousand years
0 .

When Hecatzus of Miletus was at Thebes. about 500 B. 0., he
spoke. as Herodotus tells us,‘ to the priests of Amun, of his genealogy,

’ Herod. II. 143.
Page-93
canonoworss. 91

declaring himself to be the sixteenth in descent from a god. Upon
this, the priest conducted him into a great building of the temple. where
they pointed out to him (as afterwards to Herodotus) the statues of
their high priests. Each high priest placed a colossal wooden statue
of himself in this place during his life; and each was the son of his
predecessor. The priests would not admit that any of these was the .
son of a god. From ﬁrst to last they were of human origin ; and here p
in direct lineal succession. were 345. Taking the average length of
human life. how many thousand years would be occupied by the suc-
cession of 345 high priests, in a direct line from father to son ! Ac-
cording to the priests, it was nearly 5000 years from the time of Horus.
They further informed Herodotus that gods did reign in Egypt before
they deputed their power to mortals.‘ They spoke of eight gods who
reigned ﬁrst.—among whom was one answering to Pan of the Greeks;
then came twelve of another series: and again, twelve more. the 06'-
spring of the second series: and of these Osiris was one; and it was
not till after the reign of his son Home that the ﬁrst of these 345 high
priests came into power. From Osiris to king Amasis, the priests
reckoned 15.000 years, declaring that they had exact registers of the
successive lives which had ﬁlled up the timed’ Such is the legendary
history. as it existed 500 years before Christ. We can gather from it
thus much.—that the priests then looked back upon a long reach of
time, and believed the art of registering to be of an old date.

Here we have the earliest report of dates offered us. According to
the latest researches,j: we cannot place the formation of the Egyptian
empire under Menes. nearer to us than 5500 years ago. And the
Egyptians were then a civilized people, subject to legislation and exe-
cutive authoriy. pursuing trade. and capable of the arts. A longer or
shorter series of centuries must be allotted for bringing them up to this
state. according to the views of the students of social life: but the
shortest must bring us back to the current date of the creation of man.
How these five or six thousand years are ﬁlled up, we may see here-
after.

Leaving it to my readers to ﬁx for themselves the point of time for
our survey of the most ancient period of Egyptian history, I may be
permitted to appoint the place. Let us take our stand above the Sc-
cond Cataract ;—on the rock of Abooseer. perhaps. where I could only
look over southwards, and not go and learn. This is a good station,
because it is a sort of barrier between two chains of monuments: a fron-
tier resting-place. whence one may survey the area of ancient Egyp-
tian civilization from end to end.

Looking down the river. northwards, beyond the Nubian region
(then Ethiopia) beyond the First Cataract, and far away over the great
marsh which occupied the Nile valley, we see, coming out of the dark-
ness of oblivion. Menes, the ﬁrst Egyptian king, turning the river from
its course under the Lybian mountain into a new bed, in the middle of

' Herod. II. 144, 146. T Ibid. 145.
I Bunsen. " Egypt's Place in the World’s History.”
Page-94
93 Ian-sax am.

the valley.‘ Thus the priests of Thebes told Herodotus; saying that
Menes made the dykes, by which the land was reclaimed. on which
Memphis afterwards stood. It must strike every one that this period.
5500 years ago, must have been one of an advanced civilization; such
a work as this embankment requiring scientiﬁc ideas and methods,
apt tools. and trained men. The priests ascribed to this same king the
. building of Memphis. and of the great temple of Phthah (answering
to Vulcan) in that city. They read to Herodotus a long list of soveo
reigns (three hundred and thirty) who succeeded Mensa; of whom
one was an Egy tian woman, and eighteen were Ethiopian hinged
That there shoul have been a temple of Phthah implies the establish-
ment of a priesthood. That a woman should have occupied the
throne, seems to imply the establishment of a principle of hereditary
succession; or at least, it tells of the subordination, in this early age.
of force to authority. That there should have been Ethiopian sove-
reigns among the Egyptian implies a relation between the two coun-
tries. whether of warfare or commerce. During all this time, the plain
of Thebes lay bare.

The next sovereignty that was established in the valley was at This,
about sixty miles below Thebes. A succession of monarchs reigned
pew—some say sixteen, some more—while the plain of Thebes still
ay bare.

While these sovereigns were reigning at This, and before Thebes
was heard of. the kings of Memphis were building the Pyramids of
Geezeh. It is certain that the builders of these pyramids were Ieamed
men. How much science is requisite for the erection of such ediﬁces
need hardly be pointed out ;-—the mathematical skill and accuracy;
the astronomical science shown in the placing of them true to the car-
dinal points ; the command of mechanical powers which are at this day
unknown to us; and the arts of writing and decoration shown in the
inscriptions which covered their outside in the days of Herodotus;
though the casing which contained them is now destroyed. In the
neighboring tombs, however, we have evidence, as will be shown here-
after, of the state of some of the arts at that date: and I may mention
here that the sign of the inkstand and reed-pen are among the repre-
sentations in the tombs. There is no’douht as to who built the Pyra-
mids. Colonel Howard Vyse found the kings’ names inscribed in
them. When the Pyramids were built. it was a thousand years be-
fore Abraham was born, and the plain of Thebes still lay bare.

Now we must turn southwards. and look over as far as Dongola.
For a long way above the Second Cataract. there are no monuments.
This is probably owing to the river not being navigable there. so that
there were no trading stations. There are obvious reasons why tem-
ples and other monuments should rise where commerce halts, where
men congregate, and desire protection of person and property, and ex-
ercise their social passions and affections. So, for the twenty-ﬁve
days' journey where the river is impracticable, there are no monuments.

' Herod. II. 99. 1' Ibid. 100. I Ibid. 125.
Page-95
'l'lll snmm was. 93

Then some occur of rather a modern date: and far beyond them—up
in Dengola—we come upon traces of a time when men were trafﬁck-
ing ,building, and worshIplng. wh1le yet the plain of Thebes lay bare.
To this point did the sovereigns of Memphis and of This extend their
hand of power; erecting statues as memorials of themselves, and by
their subjects, trading in such articles of use and luxury as they de-
rived from the east. While the Ethiopian subjects of these early Phat-
raohs were building up that character for piety and probity which
spread over the world, and found its way into the earliest legends and
poems of distant nations. the plain of Thebes still lay wild and here;
-—not one stone yet placed upon another.

And now, the time had arrived for the Theban kings to arise. give
glory to the close of the Old Monarchy, and preserve the national name
and existence during the thousand years of foreign domination which
were to follow. In the course of reigns at which we have now an-
rived, El-Karnac began to show its massive buIldings, and the plain of
Thebes to present temptation to a foreign conqueror.

We have now arrived at the end of the First great Period of ascer-
tained Egyptian h1story,—s. period supposed, from astronomical cal-
culation and critical research, to comprehend 889 years. A dark and
humiliating season was now drawing on.

Considering the great wealth and power of the kings now reigning
at Memphis and at Thebes, we are obliged to form a high opinion of
the strength of the Shepherd Race who presently subdued Egypt.
Whence they came, no one seems to know—further than that it was
somewhere from the East. Whether they were Assyrians. as some
have conjectured, or the thnicians who were encroaching upon the
Delta at a subsequent time, or some third party, we cannot learn, the
Egyptians having always, as is natural, kept silence about them. The
pride of the Egyptians was in their agriculture and commerce ;. and to
be conquered by a pastoral people, whose business lay anywhere
among the plains of the earth, rather than in the richly-tilled, narrow
valley of the Nile. was a hard stroke of adversity for them. So, in
their silence, all that we know of their strong enemy is that the Shep-
herd Race took Memphis, put garrisons in all the strong plane of
Egypt. made the kings of Memphis and Thebes tributary to them, and
held their empire for 929 years: that is, for a time equal to that which
extends from the death of our King Alfred to our own , a long season
of sub jngation, from which it is wonderful that the native Egyptian
race should have revived. This dark season, during which the native
kings were not absoluwa dethroned, but depressed and made tributary,
is commonly called the Middle Monarchy.p It is supposed to extend
from s. c. 2754 to n. c. 1825.

About this time. avisitor arrived in Egypt, and remained a short
while, whose travels are interesting to us. and whose appearance
aﬂ'ords a welcome rest to the imagination, after its wanderings In the
dim regions of these old ages. The richest of the Phoanicians who
found themselves restricted for room and pasturage by the numbers of
Chaldeana who moved westwards into Syria, found their way, through
Page-96
94 Imus am.

Arabia, to the abundance of corn which Lower Egypt afforded.
Among these was Abraham, a man of such wealth and distinction that
he and his followers were entertained as guests at Memphis, and his
wife was lodged in the palace of the king. He must have looked up
at the Pyramids, and learned some of the particulars which we, follow-
ing on his traces, long in vain to know :-—how they were reared, and
for what purpose precisely; and perhaps many details of the progress
of the work. It is true. these pyramids had then stood somewhere
\about 1500 years: the builders. lens of thousands in number, had
slept for many centuries in their graves; the kings who had reared
them lay embalmed in the stillness of ages, and the glory of a supre-
maey which had passed away; and these ediﬁces had become so
familiar to the eyes of the inhabitants. that they were like natural fea-
tures of the landscape: but as Abraham walked round those vast
bases, and looked up at the smooth pictured surfaces of their sides, he _
might have had explained to him those secrets of ancient civilization
which we seek to pry into in vain.

We now come to the brilliant Third Period.

The Theban kings had been growing in strength for some time; and
at length they were able to rise up against the Shepherd Race, and
expel them from Memphis, and afterWards from their stronghold,
Abaris. On the surrender of this last place, the enemy were permitted
to march out of the country in safety,—the number of their men being
recorded as 240,000. The period of 1300 years now entered upon
was the grandest of Egyptian history,—if, we may add, the Sesostris
of old renown was, as some recent students have supposed, the Rs—
masea II. of this Period. Some high authorities. as Lepsius and Bun-
sen. believe Sesostris to have belonged to the Old Monarchy. How-
ever this may be, all agree that the deeds of many heroes are attributed
to the one who now bears the name of Sesostris; and the achievements
of Ramases the Great are quite enough to glorify his age, whether he
had a predecessor like himself or not. Of these achievements I shall
say nothing'here, as they will come before us quite often enough in
our study of the temples. Suﬂice it that the empire of Egypt was ex-
tended by couquest southwards to Abyssinia; westward over Lybia;
northwards over Greece ; and eastwards beyond the banks of the Gan-
ges. The rock statues and stela: of Sesostris may yet be seen in coun-
tries far apart. but within this range: his Babylonian captives were
employed on some of the great ediﬁces we have seen, and were after-
wards permitted to build a city for themselves near the point of the
Delta: and the tributary kings and chiefs of all the conquered coun-
tries were required to come up to Egypt once a year, to pay homage
by drawing the conqueror's chariot, in return for which they received
gifts and favor. The kings of Lower Egypt appear to have declined
about this period; if even they were not tributary to those of Upper
Egypt- Of these kings, one was he who received Joseph into favor,“
and made him his prime minister; and another was he who after-

' Supposed about a. e. 1708.
Page-97
/

rams ratios. 95

wards “knew not Joseph." 0f Joseph’s administration of the affairs
of Lower Egypt we know more than of the rule of any other minister
of the Pharaohs. I have walked upon the mounds which cover
the streets of Memphis, through which Joseph rode, on occasion of
his investitnre, and where the king's servants ran before him, to bid
the people bow the knee. And when at Heliopolis, I was on the
spot where he married his wife,—the daughter of the priest and gover-
nor of On, afterwards Heliopolis.

It was in the early part of this Third Period of the Egyptian Mon-
archy that Cecrops is supposed (fable being here mingled with history)
to have led a colony from safe, and to have founded the kingdom of

Athens! beginning here the long series of obligations that Greece. and
’ through Greece Rome and the world. have been under to Egypt. It
is almost overpowering to the imagination to contemplate the vast an-
tiquity of the Egyptian empire, already above two thousand years, in
the day when Cecrops was training his band of followers. to lead them
in search of a place whereon to build Athens ;—in a day long preced-
ing that when Ceres was wandering about the earth in search of her
daughter. '

.It was about this time that a still more important event than even
the founding of Athens had taken place. We all know how s certain
Egyptian lady went out one day to baths, and what was found by her
maidens in a rushy spot on the banks of the Nile. That lady was the
daughter of one of the Pharaohs of Memphis, at a time, (as some think,)
shortly before the union on one head of the crowns of Upper and
Lower Egypt. When she brought home the child found among the
rushes, she little thought that that infant head was to become the organ
of a wisdom that should eclipse the glory of Sesostris, and mainly de-
termine the spiritual destinies of the human race, for a longer course
of centuries than even Egypt had yet seen.

When the Shepherd Kings and their army were driven out of Egypt,
many of their people remained as slaves. and were employed on the
public works. The Hebrews were also thus employed ;—latterly on
the fortiﬁcations of Thoum and Heliopolis; and the Egyptians con-
founded the two races of aliens in a common hatred. From the pre-
valence of leprosy among the Hebrews, and other causes, they were
considered an unclean people; and they were sent by the Pharaoh of
their day. under the warning of the priests. to live by themselves in
the district allotted to them. Whether the Pharaoh who opposed the
departure of this army of slaves was Thothmes III., or his son, Amn-
noph IL. or some later king, is undetermined: but it is believed on
high authority that it was Thothmes 111.,1’ and that he reigned many
years after the Exodus. The date of the Exodus is agreed upon as
about a. c. 1491, whoever was the Pharaoh reigning at the time.
There is no assertion in the Mosaic narrative, that Pharaoh himself
was lost in the Red Semi nor that the whole of his host perished : nor
is there any allusion in the Song of Moses to the death of the sovereign:

' I. c. 1556. 1' Wilkinson’s Ancient Egyptians, I. p. 54. I Iliad, L p. 55.
Page-98
96 .W urn.

and some of the Hebrew traditions declare‘ that Pharaoh snrvived.and
extended his conquests afterwards into Assyria. Thus the supposi-
tion that the Israelites marched out in the early year of the teignol'
this monarch is not irreconcilable with his having reigned thirty-nine
years. as Egyptian history declares that he did. Manetho mentions
their numbers to have been eighty thousand when they were sent to
live by themselves: and it is curious on this account, and on some
others, to ﬁnd the number assigned by the Mosaic history so high as
six hundred thousand, besides women and children. Even if we sup-
pose a proportion of these to have been their fellow-slaves of the Shep-
herd Race, who, being confounded with the Hebrews by their masters.
took this opportunity of leaving the country. it gives us a high idea of
the power and population of Egypt in those days that such abody
could be abstracted from the working class of the country, and leave
behind a suﬁicient force for the achievement of such wars and arts
as we know were prosecuted after their departure?

‘ As our chief interest in Egypt was till lately from its being the scene
of the early life of the Hebrew nation. we are apt to look for records of
the Hebrews on the monuments wherever we go. Ism convinced
that none have been found relating to their connection with Egypt:—
none relating to them at all, till the long subsequent time when Jeru-
salem was conquered by Sheshonk (Shishak). In my opinion, it
would be more surprising if there had been such records than that there
are not. There is nothing in the presence of a body of slaves to require
or suggest a monumental record, unless those slaves were made so by
conquest. and had previously been a nation. The Hebrews were not
a nation. and had no dream of being so till Moses began the mighty
work of making them one. When they had a conﬁrmed national ex—
istence; when their great King Solemn had married into the line of
the Pharaohs, and their national interests came into collision with those
of Egypt, we ﬁnd them, among other nations. in the train of the cap-
tives of Sheshonk. on the walls of El-Karnac. Some Hebrew names
among those of the Egyptian months; and a sprinkling of Hebrew
words in the Coptic language (which might have found their way there
afterwards). are.l believe. the only traceable memorials in Egypt of the
residence of the Israelites.

According to Pliny. one of the Rama-es was on the throne of Egypt
when Troy was taken: and within thirty years of that time, King
Solomon married a daughter of one of the Pharaohs.—How great The-
bes had long been is clear from the mention of Upper Egypt in Homer.
who says, perhaps truly enough in one sense. that it was the birthplace
of some of the Greek gods; and that its inhabitants were so wise as to

‘ Pictorial History of Palestine. L p. 186.

1‘ It is probable that no one will contend tor the accuracy of the numbers as they
stand in the Mosaic history; for, taking the longest term assigned {or the residence
or the Hebrews in Egypt—430 years—and supposing the most rapid rate or in-
crease known in the world1 their numbers could not have amounted to one-third of
that assigned.

1 Sharpe‘s History of Egypt, p. 37.
Page-99
ousn meanness. 07

be favorites, and even hosts of those gods. It was with these wise
Thebans (then one with the Ethiopians) that Jupiter and his family
were supposed by the Greeks to be making holiday. when out of reach.
as it seemed, of the prayers of the besiegers ot' Troy.—The 'I‘lIehan
family of monarchs, however. was by this time declinin in power;
and after a century or two of weakness, they were displace by stronger
men from a higher station up the river; and Egypt was governed by
princes from the hitherto subordinate province of Ethiopia In three
generations, Thebes ceased to be the capital of Egypt, and the seat of
government was removed to Sais' In the Delta. This event happened
nearly 700 years a. c. From this time, we have the advantage of cer-
tainty of dates, within, at least, the range of a few months. We have
come down to the record of Babylonian eclipses, and the skies light up
the history of the earth.

It was in this age that the downfall of old Egypt was provided for by
the introduction of Greek inﬂuences into the Delta, at the time when
the seat of sovereignty was there. While the national throne stood at
Thebes, the religion, philosophy, learning and language of the ancient
race could be little, if at all, affected by what was doing in other parts
of the world: but when the Thebaid became a ravines, and the me~
tropolis was open to visits from the voyagers of the Mediterranean. the
exclusively Egyptian character began to give way; and while Egypt
furnished through these foreigners. the religion, philosophy. and art of
the whole civilized world, she was beginning to lose the nationality
which was her strength. Nechepsus, one of the kings of Ss'l's, was a
learned priest. and wrote on astronomy. His writings were in the
Greek language. The kings ofSaIs now began to employ Greek mer-
eena'ries. Paammitichus 1. not only employed as soldiers large num-
bers of Ionian and Carian immigrants, but. as Herodotus tells us,‘
committed to them the children of the Egyptians. to be taught Greek,
and gave them lands and other advantages for settlement in the Delta.
Of course, this was displeasing to his native subjects, and the national
unity was destroyed. One carious circumstance occurred under this
king. which reveals much of the popular temper, and which has lcﬁ
some remarkable traces behind it,—-as will be seen in my next chapter.
Psammitichns placed three armies of Egyptians on the three frontiers
of Egyptf That on the southern frontier, stationed at Elephantine.
grew impatient, after a ncgtcct of three years. Finding their petitions
for removal unanswered. and their pay not forthcoming. they resolved
I) emigrate, and away they marched, up the river. as far beyond Merci
- Meme is beyond Elephantincf—and there lands were given then,
where heir descendants were found, three centuries afterwards. The
king himself pursued and overtook them, and endeavored promises
andpflmudepahmlhcnnotwmheM aadtheir
homes, to induce to return. told him. however, that they
would make homes [or When-n”, and marched on. Their numbers
“summiwowmam’wmuwu

-sana.n.xu than.
1