
Page-100
98 mam“ urn.

impossible to constrain them. The king took with him a force of
Greek mercenaries, whom he sent some way, as we shall see by and
by. after the deserters; but it appears that he did not go higher than
Elephantine.

While we thus see how Egypt became weakened in preparation for
downfall, it is pretty clear, on the other hand, how the process went on
by which the rest of the world became enlightened by her knowledge,
and ripened by her wisdom.

About thirty years after Sa'l's became the capital of Egypt, the ﬁrst
of the Wise Men of Greece, Thales, was born. He went to Egypt to
improve his knowledge,——and remarkable, indeed, was the knowledge
he brought away. He was the ﬁrst Greek who predicted an eclipse. He
forewarned his Ionian countrymen of that celebrated eclipse which,
when it happened, suspended the battle between the Modes and Ly-
dians. Itwas Thales, we are told, who, after his return from Egypt:
ﬁxed the sun’s orbit, or determined the duration of the year to be 365
days. It was in Egypt that he obtained his knowledge of Geometry:
and he it was who imparted, on his return. the great discovery that the
angle in a semicircle is always a right angle. In Egypt he ascertained
the elevation of the pyramids by observing the shadows of measurable
objects in relation to their height. His connection with Egypt gives us
a new interest in his theories of creation or existence. He gave the
name of Life to every active principle, as we should call it; and in this
sense, naturally declared that the universe was “full of gods." At the
same time, he is reported by tradition to have said, “The most ancient
of things existin is God; for he is uncreated: the most beautiful thing
is the universe, or it is God's creation.” Men in Greece wondered at
him for saying what would not surprise even the common men in
Egypt in his day, that Death does not ditl'er from Life.

About the same time came a sober thinking man from Greeceto
Egypt. to exchange a cargo of olive-oil from Athens for Egyptian corn
and luxuries from the east. After this thoughtful man had done his
commercial business. he remained to see what he could of the country
and people. He conversed‘much with a company of priests at Sally
who taught him. as Plato tells us, much history, and some geography.
and evidently not a little of law. His countrymen proﬁted on his re-

turn by his studies at Sal's; for this oil~merchant was Solon the law- '

maker. One of his laws is assigned immediately to an Egyptian
origin; that by which every man was required to give an account to
the magistrate of his means of livelihood. As for the geography which
Solon might learn at Sais, there is the testimony of Herodotus that
King Necho, the predecessor of Psammitichus 1., sent a maritime ex-
pedition by the Red Sea. which circumnavigated Africa, and returned
by the Pillars of Hercules.‘ Plato tells us‘l‘ that one of Solon’s priestly
friends, Sonchis, told him of some Atlantic isles. beyond the Pillars of

' Herod. W. 42. A strong indication of the truth of this story is found in the
simple remark of Herodotus that he cannot believe the navigators in one of their
assertions—that they had the sun on their right hand.

1- ln Critics.
Page-101
masons—ems: or man PERIOD. 99

Hercules. which were la r than Asia and Africa united. This sets
one thinking whether the gyptians had not some notion of the exist-
ence of America.

Within seventy years or so of Salon's visit to Egypt. a truly great
man followed on his traces. Pythagoras was unsatisﬁed with all that
could be learned from teachers at home.—-from Thales downwards,—
and went to Egypt to study philosophy and morals. He was intro-
duced to King Amaeis at Sets by letters from Polycrates. There is no
saying how much of the philosophy of Pythagoras is derived. and how
much original: nor, of that which is derived. how much he owed to
intercourse with the sages of Chaldsaa and other countries. But I think
no one who has felt an interest in the study of what is known of the
Pythagorean philosophy. can fail to be reminded of the philosopher at
every step in those chambers of the tombs at Thebes which relate to
life and death subjects. Where the paintings treat of the constitution
of things, the regions which the soul of man may inhabit, and the states
through which it may pass, one feels that Pythagoras might have been
the designer of them, if he were not a learner from them. I strongly
suspect it would be found, if the truth could be known. that more of
the spiritual religion, the abstruse philosophy, and the lofty ethics and
political views of the old Egyptians have found their way into the gene-
ral mind of our race through Pythagoras than by any or all other chan-
nels. except perhaps the institutions of Moses, and the speculations of
Plato. Some traditions. among the many which exist in relation to
this, the first man who assumed the title of philosopher, report him to
have lived twenty years in die Nile valley: and then to have been
carried off prisoner to Babylon. on the Persian invasion of Egypt.

This brings as near to the close of the great Third Period of Egyptian
history. Before the Persians came. however, Hecatteus of Miletus.
mentioned before as the earliest historical authorit , went up to ’l‘hsbes.
I have spoken already of what he saw and hear there.

Cyrus was meanwhile meditating a renewal of the old wars between
Babylon and Egypt. which had formerly been all to the glory of the
Pharaohs. Before his death. Gyms took Cyprus from the Egyptians:
and he bequeathed the task of conquering Egypt itself to his son Cam-
hyses.—The wise and fortunate Ki Amuis died before Cambyses
reached Egypt: and with him, the ird '0d of Egyptian history
may be said to have expired; for his son mmeniws could make so
little resistance, that he had completed his surrender to the foolish and
cruel conqueror before he had been on the throne six months.

We have now reached the monmful close of the great Third Period
of Egyptian history; and there is little to dwell on in the succeeding
two hundred years, when Egypt was a province of Persia. Upper
Egypt never rose again. If there had been any strength or s irit left
in her, she might have driven out Camhyses; for his folly t him
opentoalmostanykindorhgreeofresistaoeefrom man or nature.
Nature did her utmost to avenge the conquered people: but they could
not help themselves. Cambyses set out for Ethiopia with his l'er-
sians,leavinghisGreek troopstodefendtheDelts: but he made no
Page-102
100 ass-nan un.

vision for his long march southwards; and his soldiers. after ex-
lira'irsting the country, and killing their beasts of burden for food. began
to slay one another, casting lots for one victim in ten of their number. '
The army of ﬁfty thousand men, whom he had raised in the valley, in
order to conquer the Deserg—that is, to take the Cases, and burn the
temple of the Oracleﬁ-were never heard of more. Whether they
perished by thirst, or were overtaken by the sand, was never known.
So, all that the conqueror could do was to lay waste Thebes, where it
appears there was now no one to stay his hand. He carried 06' its
treasures of gold, silver and ivory, broke open and robbed the Tombs of
the Kings,'threw down what he could of the temple buildings, and
hewed in pieces such of the colossal statues as were not too strong
for the brute force of his army. It was then, if Pansanias says true,
that the vocal statue. the eastern-most of the pair, was shattered and
overthrown from the waist: after which. however, it still gave out its
gentle music to the morning sun. 0n the return of Cambyses to
Memphis,1’he found the people rejoicing in the investitnre of a new
bull Apis, which had been found qualiﬁed to succeed the one which
had died. He was angry at any rejoicin while he was bsﬂied and
unfortunate; asked how it was that they 3 owed no joy when he was
there before, and so much now when he had lost the chief part of his
army; put to death the magistrates who informed him of the occasion
of the festival; with his own hand stabbed the bull, and ordered the
priests to be sconrged¢ Here again he broke open the tombs. and
desecrated the temples. Meantime, the valley swarmed with strangers,
who came in embassy from every part of the wide Persian dominion,
to offer congratulation and magniﬁcent presents, on the conquest of
Egypt—Yet this new province never became an easy possession.
One revolt followed another; and the valley was a scene of almost
continual conﬂict during the two hundred years of its nominal subserv-
ience to Persia. Its conquest by Cambyses took place in 525 s.c.

It was only during an occasional revolt that any one from Athens
could set foot in Egypt: for the great war between the Greeks and
Persians was now going on. Anaxagoras was born 600 a. c, and he
was therefore ten years old at the time of the battle of Marathon; and
nineteen when that of Salamis was fought. But when he was forty
years of age, Egypt became accessible for four years, by means of a
revolt. During this time, though the Persians were never dislodged
from Memphis, both Lower and Upper Egypt appeared to have become
independent; and many Greeks, bent on the advancement of learning,
and Anaxagoras among them, hastened to the Egyptian schools. Anaxa-
goras's work on the Nile has perished with his other writings: and
there is no saying how much of his philosophy he derived from the
teachings of the Egyptian priests: but there is a striking accordance
between the opinions which he is variously reported to have held, and
for which he is believed to have suffered banishment, and those which
constituted part of the philosopy of Egypt. Wherever we turn, in

‘ Herod. Ill. 25. 1' Ibid. 27. I [bid 29.
Page-103
neonoroe—vsnro. 10!

tracing the course of ancient philosophy, we meet the priests of Egypt:
and it really appears as if the great men of Greece and other countries
had little to say on the highest and deepest subjects of human inquiry,
till they hadstudied at Memphis, or Sal's, or Thebes, or Heliopolit.
Here was the master of Socrates,‘ the or' ‘nator of some of his most
important opinions, and the great mover of is mind, studying in Egypt;
and we shall hereafter ﬁnd the great pupil of Socrates, and the inter-
preter of his mind, Plato, dwelling in the same school. for so long a
time, it is thought, as to show in what reverence he held it.

Soon after Anaxagoras came Herodotus. We may be thankful that
among the Greeks who visited Egypt, there was one whose taste was
more for matter-of-fact, than for those high abstract inquiries which are
not popularly included under that name: for the scientiﬁc and philoso-
phical writings of his countrymen are, for the most part, lost, while the
travels of Herodotus remain, as lively and fresh in their interest as ever.
We may mourn that the others are gone; but we must rejoice that
these are preserved. Here, at least, we obtain what we have longed
for in the whole course of our study of the early Egyptian periods;
records of the sayings and doings of the priests, and of the destinies of
the people; pictures of the appearance of the great Valley and of its
inhabitants; and details of their lives, customs, manners, histoq and
opinions. The temptation is strong to present again here, to ﬁll up
and illuminate this sketch of the history of old Egypt, some of the
material of Herodotus: but his books lie within reach of every hand:
and I will use them no further than is neCessary to the illustration of
what I myself observed in my study of the Monuments.

Within a hundred years of Herodotus. came Plato. It may be ques-
tioned whether this visit of Plato to Egypt be not one of the most
important events which have occurred in the history of the human mind.
The ﬁrst thing that strikes us, is how much there must have been to
be learned in Egypt at this time, since Plato, his friend Endoxus the
astronomer, and Chrysippus the physician, all came—(such men, and
from such a distance!) to study in the schools of Helio olis. It is re-
lated, and was believed in his own age, that Plato live thirteen years
at Heliopolis: and when Strabo was there, 350 years afterwards. he
was shown the house where Plato and Eudoxus lived and studied.—
Plato had met Socrates, it is believed, at the age of nineteen. After
having learned what he could of him, and sustained his death. and been
compelled for political reasons to leave Athens, he had gone to Megara.
and joined the school of Euclid,’t——also a pupil of Socrates, and one
well qualiﬁed to cherish what Socrates had sown in the mind of Plato.
Though this school was considered one of doubt and denial, its ulti-
mate doctrine was, that the Supreme Good is always the same. and
unchangeable. Thus trained and set thinking, Plato came to Egypt,
and sat where Moses had sat, at the feet of the priests, gaining, as

’ Proclns lays thatSocrates, as well asPlato, learned the doctrine of the Immortality
ofthe Soul than the Egyptians. If so, his great master, Anexngoras, was probably,—
almosteeruinlyp-gtbs «one! through which he received it.

1 Not the geomhtristan.
Page-104
102 Ismail sin.

Moses had gained. an immortal wisdom from their lips. The methods
of learning of these two men. and their acquisitions. diﬂ'ered according
to the diﬂ'ering characteristics of their minds. Each took from his
teachers what he could best appropriate. Moses was spiritualized to
a wonderful degree, considering his position and race; but his surpassp
ing eminence was as a redeeming legislator. Plato had deeplycon—
sidered views on political matters; but his surpassing eminence was as
a spiritual philosopher. Moses redeemed a race of slaves, made men
of them. organized them into a society, and constituted them a nation;
while Plato did only theoretical work of that kind.—enough to testify
to the political philosophy of Egypt. but not to aﬁ'ect the condition of
Greece. But Plato taught the Egyptian doctrine (illustrated on the
tombs ages before. and, as .Proclus declares. derived by Plato from
Egypt) of the Immortality of the Soul, and rewards and punishments
in an after-life. This was what Plato taught that Moses did not. The
great old Egyptian doctrine, extending back, as the Book of Genesis
shows us. as far as the Egyptian traditions reached—the great doctrine
of a Divine Moral Government, was the soul alike of the practical legis-
lation of Moses and the speculative philosophy of Plato; and this is, as
it seems to us now, their great common qualiﬁcation for hearing such
a pan as each does in the constitution of the prevalent Christianity.—
We shall have to return to this hereafter. when we have seen more of
the Egyptian priesthood. Meantime, I may observe, that unless there
is other evidence that Plato visited the Jews than the amount of Juda-
ism in his writings, it does not seem necessary to suppose such a visit.

If he passed thirteen years beside that fountain of wisdom where Moses
dwelt till his manhood. it is not extraordinary that they should have
great Ideas in common. The wonder would be if they had not. The
intellectual might of Moses seems to show that the lapse of intervening
ages had not much changed the character of the schools: and the result
on the respective minds of the two students may have been much the
same as if they had sat side by side in bodily presence, as they ever
will do in the reason of all who faithfully contemplate the Operation of
the Christian religion on the minds of men, from the beginning till
now.—That Plato derived and adopted much from his predecessors
among Greek philosophers. is very evident: and from Pythagoras above
all. But many of these Greek philosophers had been trained in Egypt;
and especially, as we have seen. Pythagoras, whose abstract ideas
would appear to be displayed in a course of illustration on the walls
of the Theban tombs. if we did not know that these tombs, with all
their pictured mysteries, had been closed many centuries before the
philosopher was born.

During all our review of the old Egyptians, we have not yet con-
sidered who they were. Of this there Is little to say. It Is useless to
call them Copts; because all we can say of the Copts is that we must
suppose them to be of the same race originally as the old Egyptians;
and this throws no light on the derivation of either. Speaking of the
origin of the Colchians, Herodotus says. that the Egyptians believed
them to be descended from followers of Sesostris; and that he thought
Page-105
urn-oar or nanomus. 103

this probable from (among other reasons) their being black, and having
curly hair.‘ This blackness was probably only a relative term;
for not only do we ﬁnd the Nubians at this day, with their strong
resemblance to the portraits in the tombs, of a dark bronze. but in the
tombs there is a clear distinction between the absolute black of negro
captives and other dark complexione. On these walls, the color given
to ﬁgures generally is a dark red. Where there is a bluish black, or
neutral tint on the faces, it is distinctive merely of the priestly caste.
The women are sometimes painted yellow; and so are certain
strangers. supposed to be Asiatic or European. It is a curious circum-
stance, related by Sir W. Gel}, that in the Tarquinian tombs in Etru-
ria, all the men have the dark red complexion found in the Egyptian
tombs. This rather tends to conﬁrm the impression that the red color
may be symbolical. like the blue for the priests, and the yellow for the
women. 0n the whole, it is thought probable that the old Egyptian
complexion was of the dark bronze of the Nubians of the present day.
Herodotus says that, except the‘Lybians, no people were so blessed in
point of health and temperament :l’ and he repeatedly records traits of
their cleanliness. and nicety with regard to food and habits. It does
not appear that they-were insensible or reconciled to the plague of in-
digenous insects, as natives usually are,—and especially Africans; for
he tells us of their sleeping under nets to avoid the mosquitoes: Their
dress was of linen, with fringes round 'the legs.§—And over this they
wore a cloak of white wool, which must be laid aside before they en-
tered the temples ;—or the tomb; for it was not permitted to bury in
woolen garments. Every man had but one wifezll and the women
were clearly in that state of freedom which must be supposed to exist
where female sovereignty was a matter of course in its turn. Herodo-
tus tells that the women went into the market, and conducted com—
merce while the men stayed at home to weave cloth.1I He speaks of
them as a serious-minded and most religious people. “ They are very
religious,” he says, “ and surpass all men in the worship they render
to the gods.”" He tells of their great repugnance to the customs of
the Greeks and of all other men ;1‘f and everywhere attests the original-
ity of the Egyptians, and their having given truth, knowledge and cus-
toms to others, without having themselves derived from any.

One of the most interesting inquiries to us is about the language of
these people. To form any idea of the labors of modern interpreters
of the monuments, we must remember that they have not only to read
the perfectly singular cipher of these writers on stone, but to ﬁnd their
ve language. Of course, the only hope is in the study of the Coptic;
an the Coptic became almost a dead language in the twelfth century
of our era, and entirely so in, the seventeenth, after having been for ages
corrupted by the admixture of foreign terms. going on at the same time
with the loss of old native ones. Egypt never had any permanent
colonies in which her language might be preserved during the ages

- Herod.ll.104. Ibid. 77. 1 Ibid. 95.
5 Ibid. 81. Ibid. 9’2. 1 Ibid. 35.
« lbid. 37. 11 Ibid 91.
Page-106
104 “an“ us).

when one foreign power after another took possession of her valley.
and rendered the language of her people compound and corrupt.
Without repeating here the long and well-known story of the progress
of discovery of the ancient language. it is enough to give the results
thus far attained.

The key not only to the cipher but to the language, was aﬂ‘orded by
the discovery of the same inscription written, as the inscription itself
declared, in three languages.—the Greek. the Enchorial or ordinary
Egyptian writing, and the old ,sacred character, The most ancient
was found to bears close relation to the Coptic, as then known: a
relation probably. as has been observed by a recent writer.‘ “similar
to that which the 'Latin does to the Italian, the Zend to the modern
Persian, or the Sanscrit to many of the vernacular dialects now‘epoken
in India." This key was applied with wonderful sagacity and inge‘
nuity by Champollion the ydunger, who proceeded a good deal further
than reading: the names and titles of the kings and their otlioers. He
ventured u on introducing or deciphering (whichever it may be called)
many wor s not to be found in the. later Coptic. except in their sup-
posed roots, nor, of course, anywhere else. The great ditﬁculty is
that, the language having, by lapse of ages, lost its original power of
grammatical inﬂexion, a quality which it seems scarcely possible to
restore, the relations of ideas in asentence. which in the more modern
Coptic are expressed by auxiliary terms, must be disposed by conjec-
ture, or by doubtful internal comparison and analogy. It is easy to
see how thus, while names and titles, and all declaratory terms may
be read, when once the alphabet is secured, all beyond must be in a
high degree conjectural, at least till the stock of terms is largely in.
creased. The stock is on the increase, however. Champollion made
a noble beginning: Dr. Lepsius has corrected him in some important
instances; and the Chevalier Bunsen has offered a Lexicon of the old
Egyptian language. placing above four hundred words in comparison
with the known Coptic. This is a supply which will go a good way
in reading the legends on the monuments; by which process, again.
we may be helped to more. The very singular nature of the alphabet
being once understood, and the beginning ofa Lexicon being supplied,
there seems reason to hope that the process of discovery may be car-
ried on by the application of one fresh mind after another to the task
which all must see to be as important as any which can occupy the
human faculties. Or, if all do not see this. it must be from insuﬁicienl
knowledge of the facts :—insuﬂicient knowledge of the amount of the
records. of their antiquity. and of their general nature. When the
traveler gazes at vast buildings covered over in every part with writing:
every architrave, every abacus, every recess and every projection. all
the lines of the cornice, and all the intervals of the sculptures. he is
overwhelmed with the sense of the immensity of knowledge locked up
from him before his eyes. Let those at home imagine the ecclesiasti-
cal history of Christendom written up thus on every inch of the sur-

' Penny Cyclopaadia; Article. Corrie Laxouael.
Page-107
wan-ran bonuses-rs or was sevrrmss. 105

face of its cathedrals. and the civil history of any country, from its
earliest times, thus engraved on all its public buildings and palaces.
and he may form some conception of what it would be, in regard to
more amount, to be able to read the inscriptions in Egypt. If he Is
also aware that the religion, philosophy and science of the world for
many thousand years, a religion, philosophy, and science which reveal
a greater nobleness, depth, and extent, the more they are explored, are
recorded there, under our very eyes and hands, he will see that no
nobler task awaits any lower of truth and of his race, than that of ena-
bling mankind to read these earliest volumes of its own history.

And the world has no other resource in regard to this object. There
is no doubt about the ancient Egyptians having had an extensive written
literature: but it is lost. It was shelved when the Greek language and
literature became the fashion in Egypt: and previous circumstances
had been unfavorable to the preservation of the rolls of goat and sheep
skins, and the subsequent papyri, which contained the best thoughts of
the best men of ﬁve or six thousand years ago. We may mourn over
this ;—we must mourn, for it is certain that they knew things that we
are yet ignorant of, and that they could do things which we can only
wonder at :—but the records are lost, and no man can help it now.
There has been later damage too, clearly traceable. We all know how
early Christianity was introduced into Egypt: and all who have been
there have seen how indefatigable the early Christians were in destroying
everything relating to the'ancient people and their faith that they could
lay their hands on. Again, the Emperor Severus carefully collected the
writings which related to the mysteries of the priests, and buried them
in the tomb of Alexander. . And again, Diocletian ordered all the
Egyptian books on alchemy to be destroyed, lest these makers of gold
should become too rich to remain dependent on Rome. Thus scarcely
a vestige of the ancient writing on destructible substances remains, and
the monumental records are our only resource. While we take to heart
the terrible loss. let us take to heart also the value of the resource, and
search for the charm which may remove the spell of dumbness from
these eloquent old teachers. Perhaps the solemn Memnon may yet
respond if touched by the warm bright rays of zeal and intelligence, -
and the great Valley may take up the echoes from end to end. And
this is a case where he who gives his labor quickly gives twice. Time
is a more eﬂicient defacer than even the Coptic Christians: and the
indefatigable enemy, the Desert, can bury old records on a vaster scale
than any Severus. There are rulers bearing sway, too,. who are not
more enlightened than the mischievous Diocletian.

As for the Egyptian method of recording the language, there were
three kinds of writing: the Hieroglyphic, or picture writing; the Hie-
tatic,—an abridged form of the hieroglyphic, used by the priests for
their records; and the Enchorial, in popular use. which appears to be
a still further abridgment of the hieratic, whose signs have ﬂowed into
a running hand. Written language is found among the very earliest
memorials of this most ancient people.

As for their social organization, we know more of it than of most

/
Page-108
106 nan-rt ma.

particulars concerning them. The most important, however, in the
state appears to have been that of the caste of Priests. The monarch
must be of thatclass. If a member of the next (the military) caste was
made king, he must ﬁrst become a priest.‘—Herodotus says that
Egyptian society was composed of seven castes; Plato says six :f
Diodorus Sicnlus says ﬁve: The classiﬁcation of Herodotus is so
strange thatit is clear that he included under his titles some division of
employments which we do not understand. He declares§ the seven
classes to be the Priests. the Military, the Herdsmen, the Swineherda,
the Tradesmen, the Interpreters, and the Pilots and Seaman. The
classiﬁcation of Diodorus will help us better. He gives us the Priests,
the Military, the Husbandmen, the Tradesmen and Artiﬁcers, and. low-
est of all, the Shepherds; and with them the Poulterers, Fishermen
and Servants. The division indicates much of the national mind. as I
need not point out. We must remember, throughout our study of the
monuments, that the priests were not occupied with religion alone.
They had possession besides of the departments of politics. law. medi-
cine. science and philosophy. It is curious to speculate on what must
have been the division of employments among them, when we read in
Herodotus how they partitioned out their art of medicine,—there being
among them no general practitioners, as we should say, but physicians
of the heart, the lungs, the abdomen; and oculists, dentists, the.” If
such a subdivision was followed out through the whole range of study
and practice in all professions, the priestly caste must contain within
itself a sufﬁcient diversity to preserve its enlightenment and magna-
nimity better than we, with our modern view of the tendencies of a
system of castes, might suppose.

I have perhaps said enough of this ancient people to prepare for an
entrance upon the study of their monuments. The other castes. and
a multitude of details of personal and social condition and usage. will
come before us when we turn to the sculptures and pictures. Before
going on to their successors, we may call to mind the grounds which
Herodotus assigns for his fullness of detail about the Pharaohs and
their people. He says, “I shall enlarge further on what concerns
Egypt, because it contains more wonders than any other country; and
because there is no region besides where one sees so many works
which are admirable and beyond expression.”1l

Beyond expression, indeed, are those great works. And do we not
know that wherever men’s works have a grandeur or beauty beyond
expression, the feeling which suggested and inspired them is yet more
beyond expression still. 0 ! how happy should 1 be if I could arouse
in others by this book, as I experienced it myself from the monuments.
any sense of the depth and solemnity of the Insas which were the
foundation of the old Egyptian faith! 1 did not wait till I went to
Egypt to remember that the faculty of Reverence is inherent in all
men, and that its natural exercise is always to be sympathized with,

' Plutarch. do Is. IX. ‘i In Timzeo. I Diod. l. 74. § Herod. 11. 164.
I Ibitl. 84. 1T lbitl. 35.
Page-109
mama“. coxcsmons. 107

irrespective of its objects. I did not wait till I went to Egypt to be-
come aware that every permanent reverential observance has some
great Idea at the bottom of it, and that it is our business not to deride
or be shocked at the method of manifestation, but to endeavor to ap-
prehend the Idea concerned. I vividly remember the satisfaction of
ascertaining the ideas that lay at the bottom of those most barbarous
South Sea island practices ofy Human Sacriﬁce and Cannibalism. If
some sympathy' In conception and feeling Is possible In even this lowest
case. how far should we be from contempt or levity in studying the
illustrations of Egyptian faith and hope which we ﬁnd blazoned on
works “ admirable and beyond expression !" With all Men’s tend-
ency to praise the olden time—to say that the former times are better
than these—we ﬁnd that it is usually only the wisdom of their own
forefathers that they extol—merely a former mode of holding and act-
ing upon their own existing ideas. They have no such praise for the
forefathers of another race, who had other ideas, and acted them out
diﬂ‘erently. Instead of endeavoring’ to ascertain the ideas, they revile
or ridicule the manifestation, which was never meant to meet their con-
ceptions, and can never be “interpreted by them. Thus we, as a socie-
ty, takeupon ourselves to abhor and utterly despise the “Idolatry" of
the Egyptians, without asking ourselves whether we comprehend any-
thing of the principles of Egyptian theology. The children, on their
stools by our ﬁresides, wonder eternally how people so clever could be
so silly as to pay homage to crocodiles and cats; and their parents too
often agree with-them, instead of pointin out that there might be, and
certainly were, reasons in the minds 0? Egyptians which made its
very diﬂ'erent thing in them to cherish sacred animals from what it
would be in us. EVeI-ybody at home talks of the ugly and grotesque
character of the Egyptian works of art; and no wonder. if they judge
with English mind and English eyes, from broken specimens in the
British Museum. One can only ask them to trust something to the
word of travelers who have seen such works in their plenitude, in
their own locality and. proper connection. Probably some people in
Greece were talking of the ugly and grotesque character of such
Egyptian decorations as they might have heard of, while Herodo-
ms was gazing on them‘ on their native soil. and declaring in his own.
mind, ashe afterwards did to the whole world and to all time, that
they were “admirable and beyond expression." 1 would ask for these
considerations to be borne in mind. not only for the sake of justice to

the earliest grllilnwrizllwh u: r‘w human race (as far as we know). but
because it is ”upmsml» m upprwmte the monuments—I may say im-
possible to am tlirmﬁllimlmit :m_\' other medium than that ofa teach:-

hle mind, Working wot: a sympaInIzing heart. If any one hesitates to
t me this much, let me ask him whether he would be willing to

ave the Christian religion judged of, ﬁve thousand years hence, by
such an one as himself, when its existing forms shall have been long
forgotten. and its eternal principles shall be expanded in some yet no-
known mode of manifestation? Supposing oblivion to have been by
that time as completely wrapped round Catholic and Protestant ritual
Page-110
108 au-rnN me.

as round the ceremonial of Egyptian worship, would a Christian be
content to have his faith judged of by a careless traveler of another
race, who should thrust a way among the buried pillars of our cathe-
dral aisles, and look for superstition in every recess. and idolatry in
every chapel; and who, lighting upon some carved fox and goose or
grinning mask, should go home and declare that Christianity was made
up of what was idolatrous, unideal and grotesque! If he is aware
that in our Christianity there is much that will not appear on our ca-
thedrals ﬁve thousand years hence, let him only remember that there
may be much that is ideal and holy in other faiths which we have not
had the opportunity of appreciating. I believe this to be the case with
every faith which, from the ﬁrst appearance of the human race upon
our globe, has met and gratiﬁed the faculty of reverence in any con-
siderable number of men. If I did not believe this with regard to the
religion and philosophy of the ancient Egyptians, I must have looked
at them merely as a wonderful show, and should certainly have visited
them in vain. v

Here. then, we take leave of the Pharaohs and their times; and, we
may say, of their people; for the spirit of the old Egyptians was gone,
and only a lifeless body was left, toibe used as it pleased their con-
querors. We hear of the brilliant reigns of the Ptolemies, who now
succeeded to the Egyptian throne; but theirs was a Greek civilization.
which, though unquestionably derived from Egypt. many centuries
before, was now as essentially different from that of the old Egyptians
as were the characteristics of the two nations.

We must ever observe that there was no true fusion of the minds of
the two faces. The Greeks learned and adopted much from the
Egyptians; but the Egyptians, instead of adopting from the Greeks.
died out. No new god was ever introduced into Egypt; while the
Greeks, after having long before derived many of their gods from
Egypt, now accommodated their deities to those of the Egyptians. and
in an arbitrary and superﬁcial way, adopted the old symbols. There
is every reason to believe that the priests, when employed by the Ptole-
mies to interpret the monuments, ﬁtted their new and compounded
ideas to the old symbols, and thus produced a theology and philosophy
which any resuscitaled Pharaoh would have disavowed. The Greeks
took no pains to learn the Egyptian language, or to enter into the old
Egyptian mind; and there is therefore endless confusion in the accounts
they have given to the world of the old gods and the old monarchs of
the Nile valley. To understand anythingof the monuments of the
times we are now entering upon, it will be necessary to bear in mind
that the Ptolemies and Caesars built upon Pharaonic foundations. and
in imitation of “Pharaonic ediﬁces; but necessarily with such an ad-
mixture of Greek and Roman ideas with their Egyptian conceptions as
to cause a complete corruption of ancient art. It is necessary never to
forget this, or we shall be perpetually misled. We may admire the
temples of the Ptolemies and Cesare as much or as little as we please;
but we must remember that they are not Egyptian.

Every country weak enough to need the aid of Greek mercenaries
Page-111
no: or m manna. lOO

wee sure to become, ere long, Greek property. It wee In with Ponia.
and with its province, Egypt. The event was heetened by the drain
of the Egyptians to be quit of their Persian maltere. Alexander the
Great was the conqueror, ea everybody known. He chose Itie time
when the chief part of the Persian forces of Egypt wee abeont—eottt
to tight the Greeks in Asia Minor. When once Alexander had let
foot in Pelueium, the rest wee easy; for the towns opened their gutee
to him with joy; and he had only to march to Helio lie and then to
Memphis. He gave hie countenance as well as he new how to the
old worship, restoring the templee and honoring the eymbole of the
gods at Memphis. and marching to the anie of Amun, to preeent gll'tl
to the chief deity of the Egyptians. and to claim to be hie eon. it wue
on his way there, by the coaet, that he arm in eeing the harbor where
Alexandria now etande, and perceived ita cape ilitiee. He ordered the
improvement of the harbor. and the building of the cit which would
have immortalized hie name, if he had done nothing e ee. 'l'hle vielt
of Alexander the Great to Egypt took place 382 a. a. He left ordere
that the country ehould be governed by in own lawn. and that ill re-
ligion should be abeolutely reepected. Thie wee wiee and humane,
and no doubt we owe eome of our knowledge of more ancient timer to
this conservative principle of Alexender'e government. But he wee not
practically sustained by his deputies; and he died eight care after
his vieit to Egypt. Hie encceaeor re the overnment of ham into
the hande ol‘ Ptolemy, who called imeell' t 4: Ion of Leger, but we-
commonly believed to be an illegitimate eon of Philip of Meccdon.
In eeventeen yean he become king; end with him begine the great
line of the Ptolemiee, of whom sixteen reigned in eucceeaion for 276
yeeu. till the witch Cleopatra let the country go into the hende o! the
Benzene, to become a Roman province. in 30 e. c.

It wee under the government of the ﬁrst Ptolemy that Greek vieitore
again explored the Nile valley ae high as 'l'hebee, end higher. Heca-
wue of Abdel: wee one oftbeee trevelcre, and a great traveler he wees
for. if Diodorue Siculue tell- ne truly. be once mood on Helium
Plaimandeewthnethe ttempleoftheﬂenwhichwer
Stonehengefaed heeertaieyetoodoetheplaioof 115%.an
mp1: of the Sea there. The prieetehad recovered the"
mejeunkdthearukgaedludbr eetthe
other tau-we of the te-plu which been an:
the Pains. 1w, however, wee about 4nd try
' mwwewtyaﬂwhizhemgumw

bkmthatdlemdeddwmvdd Minty!
exitig '- the valley at Kag’ later», 0! wind:
he been dermal coda wmtmt Id

“dm‘wﬁeﬁwqum
bye; Uiiamumqtebdmnw
(arty-eac- W. zed M my ya rm

wad—unﬁmumrmm,

‘hce'nellay.7. m,

tr
*3

iii 3W1
it
igiiiétiit
m; ' E

i
Page-112
1|o ass-rm urn.

Whose will be the honor of laying them open l—not in the Cambyses
spirit of rapine, but in all honor and reverence, in search of treasures
which neither moth nor rust can corrupt. nor thieves carry away—a.
treasure of light out of the darkened place, and of knowledge out of
that place where usually no device or knowledge is found!

We are grieved now to lose the old Egyptian names. but at th'n
time they naturally become exchanged for Greek. 0n becomes Helio-
polis. This becomes Abydos. Thebes (called in the Bible No Am-
men). becomes Diospolis Magus. Pilak becomes Philte. Petpieh is
Aphroditopolis (the city of Athor). Even the country itself, from
being called Khem (answering to Ham in the Bible), is hencefonh
known as Egyptus.

1n the reign of the second Ptolemy lived a writer of uncommon in-
terest and importance to us now—Manetho, the Egyptian priest. We
have only fragments of the writings of Manetho. but they are of
and immediate value'to us; fragments of the history of Egypt, which
he wrote at the command of Ptolemy Philadelphus. He wrote in
Greek, of course, deriving his information from the inscriptions in the
temples. What would not we give now for his knowledge of the
Egyptian language! and what would we not give to have his works
complete! His abode was at that great seat of learning where Moses
got his lore—Heliopolis. He is the very man we want—to stand on
the ridge of time, and tell us who are below, what was doing in the
depths of the old ages. He did so stand, and he did fully tell what he
saw; but his words are gone to the four winds, and but a few uncon-
nected declarations have reached us. We have a list of old kings from
him, and Josephus has, by extracting, preserved some passages of his
account of the Hebrews when in Egypt; but Josephus.' in his unscru-
pulous vanity, wishing to make out that his nation were descended
from the Shepherd Kings, puts certain words of his own into Manetho’s
mouth, thus impairing our trust in the poor extracts we have. It ap-
pears, and should be remembered, that the Egyptian records make no
mention of the Hebrews. and that what Manetho told of them must
therefore be derived from other and probably inferior sources. His
list of kings is preserved in some early Christian writers; but the diﬁ-
culty has been how to use it, and how far to trust it. I must not enter
here upon the story, however interesting, of the ﬂuctuations of the
credit of Manetho. Bullies it that all recent discoveries have directly
tended to establish his character as an able and conscientious historian.
The names he gives have been found inscribed in temples and tombs,
and even. latterly, in the Pyramids; and the numerous and nameless
incidental notices which occur in the study of ancient monuments have.
in this instance, gone to corroborate the statements of Manetho. As
the monuments are a conﬁrmation of his statements, so are his state-
ments a key to the monuments; and with this intimation of unbounded
obligations to Manetho. we must leave him.

One event which happened in the reign of the second Ptolemy we
must just refer to, as it is connected with the chronological questions
which make up so much of the interest of the history of Egypt. The
Page-113
DICLINI or was menus. 111

Jews then in Egypt were emancipated by this Ptolemy; and they em-
ployed their inﬂuence with him in obtaining, by his countenance. a
good Greek translation of their Scriptures. By communication with
the High Priest at Jerusalem. there came about an appointment of
seventy qualiﬁed men who translated the Hebrew Scriptures into
Greek,_and presented the world with the version called the Septuagint.
The chronolo y of this work diﬁ‘ers widely from that given by the
Samaritan an Hebrew versions; the Septuagint assigning between
Adam and Abraham, nearly 1400 years more than the Hebrew; and
so on. For a long course of time, the learned and religious world
believed that the discrepancy between the Septuagint and (so-called)
Mosaic histories was ascribable to forgery on the part of the Alex-
andrian Jews. But now that chronological evidence is ﬂowing in from
other sources. the judgment of biblical scholars is becoming favorable
to the Septuagint computation. Of course,.it becomes at the same time
more accordant with the recorded history of Egypt.

In the reign of the third Ptolemy lived Eratosthenes,—a truly great
scholar and wise mam—called the second Plato, and also the second
of the ﬁrst man in every science. He was a Greek. understanding
Egyptian: and he wrote a history of Egypt in correction of that of
Manetho. Their statements, their lists of kings, appear at ﬁrst sight
irreconcilable. This is not the place in which to give an account of
the difﬁculty. It is enough to say that the attention of scholars has
been employed upon it to good purpose; and that it may be hoped that
two men, reasonably believed so trustworthy, will be found, when we
can understand them, to have told the same story, and to have sup-
plied us with new knowledge by the very difference in their way of tell-
ing it.

One greatevent must be noticed before we go on from the dominion
of the Ptolemies to that of Rome. The Ptolemies degenerated. as
royal races are apt to do; and alter‘a few of their reigns, the Egyptians
became as heartily tired of their Greek rulers as they had been of the
Persian. In the time of the eighth and ninth sovereigns of this line,
Thebes rebelled, and maintained a long resistance against the authority
and forces of Ptolemy Lathyrus. The temples were stout citadels, in
which the besieged could seclude themselves: and they held them long.
When Ptolemy Lathyrus prevailed at last, he made dreadful havoc at
Thebes. Cambyees had done wonders in the way of destruction : but
Lathyrus far exceeded him. As one walks over the plain of Thebes,
whose ﬁnal overthrow dates from this conﬂict, one’s heart sickens
among the ruins made by the Persian, the Greek and the Earthquake.
To the last of these, one submits quietly. though moumfully, as to a
Fate: but those who do not regard men as necessary agents.—-agents
of an exact necessity in human history,—-may ﬁnd their spirits rising
in resentment against the long-buried invaders, as the spirits of the
Thebans rose in resentment while they looked out upon their besiegers
from the loopholes of their lofty propyla. This greatest and last act
of devastation took place 88 s. c.; ﬁfty-eight years before Egypt became
a Roman province.
Page-114
H2 smut use.

About thirty years before this annexation, Diodorus Siculns was in
Egypt. He probably witnessed the beginning of the building of the
temple of Dendera. He saw much religious ceremonial, which it is
curious to read of, though there is no saying how far it remained true
to the old ideas in which it originated. The testimony of Diodorus as
to what happened in his own time is of course more valuable than his
essays in the ancient history: but the latter are interesting in their
way. as showing what were the priestly traditions current in the last
days of thé Ptolemies.

As our object in this rapid view of Egyptian history is to obtain
some clearness of ideas in preparation for looking at the monuments.
we need not go into any detail of the times subsequent to the building
of Egyptian monuments or of the times of those Romans who erected
some temples, but whose history is familiar to everybody; I need only
say that, after the death of the last Cleopatra and her son Caesarion, in
30 n.c., Egypt was annexed to the Roman dominions for seven hun-
dred years. At the end of that period, the ruler of Egypt had enough
to do to keep oﬁ‘ Persian aggression. He bought otl‘ the Arabs,—a
stronger enemyf—for a time; but the great conqueror Amrou marched
in triumph from his capture of Damascus and Jerusalem, and, after
some struggle and mischance, took the great cities of Egypt, and sent
the libraries of Alexander to heat the baths of that city; for which
purpose, it is said that they lasted six months.

One of the ﬁrst visitors to Egypt after its annexation to Rome was
Strabo, who went up the banks of the Nile with the Prefect, as far as
Aswin, and has left a full and careful account of what he saw. He
enlarges on Alexandria, at that time a most magniﬁcent city. while
Thebes was a village, interspersed with colossal ruins. Memphis was
still great, ranking next to Alexandria: but Heliopolis was sunk, and
almost gone. Its schools were closed; but the memory of them re-
mained, on the spot, as well as afar: for the house was shown where
Plato and Endoxus lived and studied. Would it were there still! At
present, there is nothing left visible of Heliopolis but its obelisk, and a
circuit of mounds. Strabo thought the place almost deserted in his
time: but what a boon it would be to us to see what was before his
eyes, within a few years of the Christian era!

Here, then, we stop; at a period which we have been wont to con-
sider ancient, but which, in regard to our object, is so modern as to
have no further interest or purpose which need detain us.

We now proceed to the monuments.
Page-115
“com. us

CHAPTER X.
ABOO-SIMBIL—EGYPTIAN CONCEPTIONS OF THE GODS.

TH! temples of Aboo-Sim‘bil are both of the timeof Ramases II.;-
in the earlier part of the great Third Period. Nothing more interesting
than these temples is to be found beyond the limits of Thebes.

I went u to the smaller temple early in the morning. of the six
statues of e facade, the two in the centre represent Athor. whose calm
and gentle face is surmounted by the usual crown,—the moon contained
within the cow’s horns. On entering the portal in the rock, I found
myself is a hall where there was plenty to look at, though the ﬁres
lightened by the Arabs have blackened the walls in some places. and
the whole is, as I need not say, very old.—nearly 1400 8.6. This on;
trance hall is supported by six square pillars, all of which bear the head
of Athor on the front face of their capitals, the other three faces being
occupied with sculptures, once gayly painted, and still showing blue.
red and yellow colors. On the walls here were the men of the old
military caste, in their defensive armors—a sort of cuirass of chain
armor,—red links on a yellow ground: and their brethren the civilians,
in red frocks: and the women in tight yellow garments, with red sashes
tied-in front. Most of the ﬁgures are represented in the act of bringing
otferings to the gods: but on either side the door, the hero Ramases is
holding by the hair a captive who is on one knee, and looks up.—in
the one instance with a complete negro face; in the other, with a face
certainly neither Egyptian nor negro. and whose chin ends in a peaked
beard. Here we have the conquests of the hero in upper Africa. and
probably in Asia. He holds up his falchion, as if about to strike;
but the goddess behind him lifts her hand, as if in intercession, while
Osiris, in front, holds forth the great knife, as if to command the slaugh-
ter. When Osiris carries, as here, the emblems of the crozier and the
ﬂagellum or whip, he is present in his function of Judge: and here. w
oordingly, we see him deciding the fate of the nations conquered by
Bamsses.

Within this outer hall is a transverse corridor. ending in two rude
chambers, where I found nothing but bats. But beyond the corridor
lies the sacred chamber, the shrine of the deity. There she is. in the
form of the crowned head of a com—her emblematic disk being be-
tween the horns. In another part, she stands, as a cow, in a boat sur-
rounded by water plants,—the king and queen bringing offerings to this
“ Lady of Aboshek. the foreign land." We shall meet with Athor fre-
quently as “ Lady of the West;" and therefore as the morning star; as
the weleomer of the Sun at the end of his course; and as the mild and
transient Night, which is quite adiﬂ'erent personage from the stern and
fixed Night of Chaos. As possessor or guardian of the West, Atbor

8
Page-116
,114 sun“ urn.

was patroness of the western part of Thebes,—“ the Lybian suburb,"
as it was called of old.‘ Plutarch says that the death of Osiris was be-
lieved to have happened in her month ;—the third Egyptian month: that
her shrines were in that month carried about in procession; at the time
when the Pleiades appear and the husbandmen began to sow their corn.
The countenance of this goddess was everywhere in the temples so
mild and tranquil as to accord well with the imagery of the Summer
Night. the Morning Star, and the Seed-time. which are associated, in
the Egyptian worship, with her name. I found the ﬁgure in the ady-
tum (Holiest Place) much mutilated: but-the head and ears were still
distinctly visible. Hieroglyphic legends on each side declare her name
and titles. This temple extends, from the portal, about ninety feet into
the rock. Little as I had yet learned how to look at temples, I found
this full of interest. In the course of the morning. we detected some of
our own crew making aﬁre against the sculptures in the hall. Of
course, we interfered. with grave faces: but there is no hope that
Arabs will not make their ﬁres in such convenient places, whenever
they can. Acave at the top of the bank is irresistible to them, whether
it be sculptured or not.

I was impatient to get to the Colossi of the large temple, which
looked magniﬁcent from our deck. So. after bmakfasyl set forth alone,
to see what height I could attain, in the examination of the statues.

The southernmost is the only complete one. The next to it is terri-
bly shattered: and the other two have lost the top of the helmet. They
are much sanded up, though, thanks to Mr. Hay, much less than they
were. The sand slopes up from the half cleared entrance to the chin
of the northernmost colossus: and this slope of sand it was my purpose
to climb. It was so steep, loose, and hot to the feet, that it was no easy
matter to make my way up. The beetles, which tread lightly and seem
to like having warm feet, got on very well: and they covered the sand
with a net work of tracks: but heavier climbers, shod in‘leather, are
worsted in the race with them. But one cannot reach the chin of a
colossus every day: and it was worth an effort. And when I had
reached the chin, I made a little discovery about it which may be worth
recording, and which surprised me a good deal at the time. I found
that a part of the lower jaw, reaching half way up the lower lip. was
composed of the mud and straw of which crude bricks are made. There
had been evidently a fault in the stone, which was supplied by this
material. It was most beautifully moulded. The beauty of the curves
of these great faces is surprising in the stone ;-—the ﬁdelity of the round-
ing of the muscles, and the grace of the ﬂowing lines of the cheek and
jaw: but it was yet more wonderful in such a material as mud and
straw. I cannot doubt that this chin and lip were moulded when the
material was in a soft state :—s diﬂicult task in the case of a statue
seventy feet high, standing up against the face of a rock. I called the
gentlemen up, to bear witness to the fact: and itset us looking for more
instances. Mr. E. soon found one. Part of the dress of the Second

0 Wilkinson’s Ancient Egyptians, IV. 387.
Page-117
'1‘:le or ssoo-smnm. 115

Osiride on the right hand, entering the temple, is composed of this same
material. as smoothly curved and nicely wrought as the chin overhead.
0n examining closely, we found that this layer of mud and straw
covered some chiseling within The artist had been carving the folds
of the dress, when he came upon a fault 1n the stone which stopped his
work till he supplied a surface of material which he could mould.

The small ﬁgures which stand beside the colossi and between their
ankles, and which look like dolls, are not. as sometimes said, of human
size. The hat of a man of ﬁve feet ten inches does not reach their
chins by two inches. These small ﬁgures are, to my eye, the one
blemish of this tam le. They do not make the great Ramases look
greater, but only loo dollish themselves.

0n the legs of the shattered colossus are the Greek letters, scrawled
as by a Greek clown. composing the inscription of the soldiers sent by
Psamrnitichus in pursuit of the Egyptian deserters whom I mentioned
as going up the country from Elephantine, when weary of the neglect
in which they were left there. We are much obliged to “Damear-
chon, the son of Amiebichus, and Pelephus, the son gof Udamus,” for
leaving. to any kind of scrawl, a record of an event so curious. One
of the strangest sensations to the traveler in Egypt, is ﬁnding such
traces as these of persons who were in their day modern travelers see-
ing the antiquities of the country, but who take their place now among
the ancients, and have become subjects of Egyptian history. These
rude soldiers. carving their names and errand on the legs of an ancient
statue as they went by, passed the spot a century and a half before
Cambyses entered the country. One wonders what they thoughtof
Thebes, which they had just seen in all its glory.

As nearly as we could judge by the e ye, and by knowing pretty
well the dimensions of the colossiy. the facade from the base of the
thrones to the top of the row of apes, is nearly or quite one hundred
feet high. Above rises the untouched rock.

The faces of Ramases outside (precisely alike) are placid and cheer-
fab—full of moral grace: but the eight Osirides within (precisely alike
too) are more. They are full of soul. It is a mistake to suppose that
the expression of a face must be injured by its features being colossal.
In Egypt it may be seen that a month three feet wide may be as deli-
cate. and a nostril which spans a foot as sensitive in expression as any
marble bust of our day. It 18 very wonderful, but quite true. Abdel-
latif has left us his testimony as follows,-—-in speaking of the Sphinx.
“ A little more than a bow-shot from these Pyramids. we see a colossal
head and neck appearing above ground. . . . Its countenance is
very charming, and its mouth gives an impression of sweetness and
beauty. - One would say that it smiles benignly. An able man having
asked me what I admired most of all that I had seen in Egypt, I told
him that it was the truth of the proportions in the head of the Sphinx.
. . . It is very astonishing that in a countenance so colossal, the
sculptor should have preserved the precise proportions of all the parts,
whilst Nature has presented no model of such a colossus, nor of any
Page-118
us nuns urn.

thing which eonldbe compared to it.”' Iwas nevertired of gazing
at the Oshides, everywhere, and trying to imprint ineﬂ'aceably on my
memory the characteristics of the old Egyp tiau face :—ths handsome
arched nose, with its delicate nostril; the well-opened, though long
eye; the placid, innocent month, and the smooth-rounded. amiable
chin. Innocence is the prevailing expression; and steruness is absent.
Thus the stiﬁest ﬁgures, and the most monotonous gesture, convey
still only an impression of dispassionateness and benevolence. The
dignity of the gods and goddesses is beyond all description, from this
union of ﬁxity and benevolence. The diﬂiculty to us now is, not to
account for their having been once worshiped, but to help worship-
ing them still. I cannot doubt their being the most abstract gods that
men of old ever adored. Instead of their being engaged in wars or
mutual rivalries, or favoritisms. or toils, or sufferings, here they sit,
each complete and undisturbed in his function.—every one supreme.—
free from all passion. but capable of all mild and serene aﬁ‘ectious.
The Greek and Roman gods appear like wayward children beside
them. Herodotus says that the Greek gods were children to these in
respect of age :i and truly they appear so in respect of wisdom and
maturity. Their limitation of powers, and consequent struggles, rival-
ries and transgressions, their fondness and vindictiveness. their anger,
fear and hope are all attributes of childhood, contrasting strikingly
with the majestic passive possession of power, and the dispassionate
and benignant frame of these ever—young old deities of Egypt. Vigi—
laut, serene, benign. here they sit, teaching us to inquire reverently into
the early powers and conditions of that Human Mind which was capa~
ble of such conceptions of abstract qualities as are represented in theh
forms. I can imagine no experience more suggestive to the thoughtful
traveler, anywhere from pole to pole, than that of looking with a clear
eye and fresh mind on the ecclesiastical sculptures of Egypt, perceiv-
ing, as such an one must do. how abstract and how lofty were the ﬁrst
ideas of Deity known to exist in the world. That he should go with
clear eyes and a fresh mind' is needful: for if he carries a head full of
notions about idolatry, obscenity, folly and ignorance, he can no more
judge of what is before his eyes,—he can no more see what is before
his face, than a proud Mohammedan can apprehend Christianity in a
Catholic chapel at Venice, or an arm nt Jew can judge of Quakerism or
Quietism. If the traveler be blesseguwith the clear eye and fresh mind.

and be also enriched by comprehensive knowledge of the workings of
the human intellect in its various circumstances, he cannot but be im-
pressed and he may be startled, by the evidence before him of the ele-
vation and beauty of the ﬁrst conceptions formed by men of the Beings
of the unseen world. And the more he traces downwards the history
and philosophy of religious worship, the more astonished he will be to
ﬁnd to what an extent this early theology originated later systems of
belief and adoration, and how long and how far it has transcended
some of those which arose out of it. New suggestions will thence

- Relation dc rEgypze, l. 1. ch. 4. 1 Herod. n. 4, so, 58, 146.
Page-119
nut-us or madman" 117

arise, that where in the midst of what is solemn and beautiful he
meets with what ap ears to modern eyes puerile and grotesque, such
an appearance may deceive, and there may be a meaning contained in
it which is neither puerile nor grotesque. He will consider that Cam-
byses might be more foolish in stabbing the bull Apis, to show that it
could bleed, which nobody denied, than the priests in conserving a
sacred idea in the form of thebull. He will consider that the Sphinx
might be to Egyptian eyes, not a hideous compound animal, as it is
when carved by an English stone mason for a park gate, but a sacred
symbol of the union of the strongest physical with the highest intel-
lectual power on earth.

The seriousness I plead for comes of itself into the mind of any
thoughtful and feeling ptraveler, at such a moment as that of entering
the great temple of Aboo-Simbil. I entered it at an advantageous
moment, when the morning sunshine was reﬂected from the sand out-
side so as to cast a twilight even into the adytum,—two hundred feet
from the entrance. The four tall statues in the adytum, ranged behind
the altar, were dimly visible: and l hastened to them, past the eight
Osirides, through the next pillared hall, and across the corridor. And
then I looked back, and saw beyond the dark halls and shadowy
Osirides the golden sand-hill without, a corner of blue sky, and a gay
group of the crew in the sunshine. It was like looking out upon life
from the grave. When we left the temple, and the sun had shifted its
place, we could no longer see the shrine. It is a great advantage to
enter the temple ﬁrst when the sun is rather low in the east.

The eight Osirides are perfectly alike.-—all bearing the crusier and
ﬂagellum, and standing up against huge square pillars, the other sides
of which are sculptured, as are the walls all round. The aisles behind
the Osirides are so dark that we could not make out the devices without
the help of torches , and the celebrated medallion picture of the siege
would have been missed by us entirely. if one of the crew had not
hoisted another on his shoulders, to hold a light above the height of
their united statures. There we saw the walled town, and the pro-
ceedings of the besieged and besiegers, as they might have happened
in the middle ages. The north wall is largely occupied by a tablet,
bearing the date of the first year of Ramases the Great: and on the
other side of the temple, between two of the pillars. is another tablet,
bearing the date of the thirty-ﬁfth year of his reign. The battle scenes
on the walls are all alive with strong warriors, ﬂying foes, trampled
victims, and whole companies of chariots. I observed that the chariot
wheels were not mere disks, as we should have expected in so early
an age, but had all six spokes. Every chariot wheel I saw in the
country had six spokes, however early the date of the sculpture or
painting. Onc ﬁgure on the south wall Is admirable.—a warrior in red,
who Is spearing one foe. while he has his foot on the head of another.

There are two groups of chambers, of three each, opening out of
this large hall: and two more separate side chambers. The six in-
cluded in the two groups are very nearly (but not quite) covered with
representations of oﬂ‘erings to the gods: very pretty, but with little
Page-120
l 18 sass-sax Luvs.

variety. The oﬁ'eriugs are of piles of cakes and fruit, lamps, vases of
various and graceful shapes, and ﬂasks. The lotus. In every stage of
growth, is frequent. Sometimes it is painted yellow, veined with red.

The boat, that wonderful and favorite symbol which we meet every-
where,' Is incessantly repeated here,—the seated ﬁgure' In the convolu-
tion at how and stem, the pavilion In the middle.and the paddle hanging
over the side. One of these boats Is carried by an admirable procession
of priests, as a shrine. which Is borne on poles of palm- -truuks lashed
together. Stone deewins run round the walls of most of these little
chambers. We could ﬁnd no evidence of there being any means of
ventilating these side-rooms; and how they could be used without, we
cannot conceive,—-enclosed as they are in the solid rock.

The second and smaller hall has four square pillars, sculptured, of
course. Next comes the corridor, which has a bare unﬁnished little
chamber at each end, now possessed by bats. The altar in the adytum
is broken; and some barbarous wretches have cut their insigniﬁcant
initials on it. Are there not rocks enough close by the entrance, on
which they might carve their memorials of their precious selves, if
carve they must? But this profaning of the altar is not the worst.
One creature has cut his name on the tip of the nose of the northernmost
colossus: others on the breast and limbs of the Osirides; and others
over a large extent of the sculptured walls.

One of the four god ﬁgures in the adytum is Ra. who also occupies
the niche in the facade over the entrance. Ra is the Sun. He is not
Amun Ra, the Unnutterable,‘—the God of gods,—-the only god: but
a chief, as the term Ra seems to express. Phra, (Ra with the article.)
by us miscalled Pharaoh, means a chief or king among men: and Ra
is the chief of the visible creation : and here, in this temple. he is the
principal deity, the others being Khem, or Egypt. Kneph, Osiris and
Isis. As we go on. we shall perhaps be able to attain some notion of
the relative ofﬁces and dignities of the gods. At the outset. it is neces-
sary to bear in mind chieﬂy that the leading point of belief of the
Egyptians, from the earliest times known to us, was that there was
One Supreme,—or, as the said,-—one only God, who was to be
adored in silence, (as Jamb ichus declares from the ancient Hermetic
books,) and was not to be named: that most of the other gods were
deiﬁcations of his attributes: while others. again. as Egypt, the Nile,
the Sun, the Moon, the West, &c., were deitications of the powers or
forces on which the destiny of the Egyptian nation depended. We
have also to remember that we must check our tendency to suppose
Allegory in every part of the Egyptian system of theology. It Is difﬁ-
cult to check this tendency to allegorize, bringing as we do the ideas
of a long subsequent age to the interpretation of a theological system
eminently symbolical to its priests, though not to the people at large:
but we must try to conceive of these Egyptian gods as being, to the
general Egyptian mind, actual personages. inseparably connected with
the facts and appearances in which they were believed to exist. If

' Manetbo says that Amuu-metms “concealment."
Page-121
serpents concantons or was: eons. 119

we make the mistake of supposing them merely the names of such
facts and appearances, and proceed to interpret them by the method of
allegorical narrative, we shall soon ﬁnd ourselves perplexed, and at a
loss: for our view of the facts and appearances of Nature can never be
like those of the Egyptians. whose science, though unquestionably
great, lay in a different direction (for the most part) from ours, and
whose heavens and earth were hardly like the same that we see and
inhabit.

For one instance—in their theory of the formation of the world,
they believed that when the formless void of eternal matter began to
part off into realms, the igneous elements ascending and becoming a
ﬁrmament of ﬁery bodies. and the heavier portions sinking and becom-
ing compacted into earth and sea. the earth gave out animals,—beasts
and reptiles; an idea evidently derived from their annual spectacle of
the coming forth of myriads of living creatures from the soil of their
valley, on the subsidence of the ﬂood. When we remember that to
them the Nile was the sea, and so called by them, and that they had
before them the spectacle which is seen nowhere else, of the springing ’
of the green herb after the separation of the waters from the land, we
shall see how different their view of the creation must be from any
which we could naturally form. In this particular case. we have
adopted their traditions given to us through the mind of Moses; but
where we have not the mind of Moties to interpret them to us, we must
abstain from reading their meanings by any other light than that which
they themselves afford us. As another instance, how should we alle-
gorize for them about the West? What is the West to us? It is the
place where the heavenly bodies disappear: and that is the only point
we have in common with them. \Vith them, the West was the unseen

state. It was a dreary, unknown region beyond the dark river which
' the dead had to cross. The abodes of the dead were on its verge; and
those solemn caves were the entrance of the Amenti, the region of
judgment and retribution. Nothing was heard thence but the bark of
the wild dog at night; the vigilant guardian, as they believed. of the
heavenly abode which the wicked were not to approach.‘ Nothing
was seen there but the descent of the sun, faithful to the goddess who
was awaiting him behind the hills :‘f and who. hanging above those
hills as the brightest of the stars, showed herself the Protectress of the
Western Shore. Such elements as these which they themselves give
us, we may take and think over; but if we go on to mix up with them
modern Greek additions about Apollo, and yet more modern metaphysi-
cal conceptions, in order to construct allegories as a key to old Egyptian
theology, we cannot but diverge widely from old Egyptian ideas. And
what is worse. we shall miss the perception of the indubitable earnest-
ness of their faith. We have every possible evidence of their unsur-
passed devoutness: but we shall lose the sense of it if we get into the
habit of supposing them to have set up images of abstract qualities (as
abstract qualities are to us) instead of dwelling in constant dependence

‘ Wilkinson’s Ancient Egyptians, V. 435. 1‘ Ibid. IV. 388.
Page-122
120 IAB'I'IRN urn.

on living divine personages‘. We may ﬁnd symbols everywhere in the
Egyptian theology; and analogies in abundance: but I do not know
that any instances of complete or continuous allegory can be adduced.
When we try to construct such, or think we have found them. we pre-
sently begin to complain of an intermixture of personages or of oﬂices.
such as should shew us, not that the Egpytian worship was confused,
but that we do not clearly understand the ideas of the worshipers, and
must have mixed them with some of our own.

Kneph, known by his Ram’s head, is, as I said, in the adytum with
Ra; but, though a higher god than Ra, this temple is not dedicated to
him, but to Rs, as is shown by the appearance of the latter on the
facade. The deeds of the great Ramases, his adorer, are brought as
an offering, and presented on the walls. There appears at ﬁrst some-
thing incongruous in the mingling. in these temples. of the benign
serenity of the gods with the fury and cruelty of their warrior wor—
shipers; but one soon remembers that it is an incongruity which
remains to this day, and will doubtless remain till war is abolished. A
custom so durable as that of consecrating warfare 'to God must have an
idea at the bottom of it: and the idea is plain enough here. We ﬁnd
the same idea in the mind of‘this Ramases, and of Moses in his Song
of deliverance, and of the Red Indian who shakes the scalp: of his
enemies at the end of his spear in his war-dance, and of the Crusaders
in their thanksgivings for victory over the Saracens. and of our Crom-
well in Ireland, and in the vindictive stanza ofo'ur National Anthem;—
the ideathat power to conquer is given from above,and that the results
are, therefore, to the glory of him who gives the power. Such a

‘ method of observance, being natural in certain stages of the human
mind, is right in its place ;—in a temple of Ramases, for instance.
The wonder is to ﬁnd it in the jubilations of Christian armies, in the
dispatches of Cromwell,‘ and even in the Prayer-book of the English
Church, in direct connection with an acknowledgment of the Prince of
Peace, whose kingdom was not of this world.

One thing which struck me as strange in this hall of giants was a
dwarﬁsh statue, without a head. It measured two or three inches less
in each limb than our middle-size. and was of course very insigniﬁcant
among the Osirides. What it was, and how it came there, we could
not learn.

,When we looked abroad from the entrance, the view was calm and
sweet. A large island is in the midst of the river, and shows a sandy
beach and cultivated interior. The black. peaked hills of the opposite
desert close in to the south, leaving only a narrow passage for the
river.—It was nearly evening before we put oil from the bank below
the temple. It had been an animating and delightful day; and lfound
myself beginning to understand the pleasure of “ temple-haunting;" a

‘ Cromwell to Vice-Admiral Goodson at Jamaica—“Make yourselves as strong
as you can to beat the Spaniard, who will doubtless send a good force into the
Indies. I hope, by this time, the Lord may have blessed you to have light upon
some of their vessels,—whether by burning them in their harbors or otherwise."—
Cmmrull’: hum and Speeches, vol. III. p. 156.
Page-123
nasal. 121

pleasure which so grew upon us, that we felt real grief when it came
to an end. I. for one, had suspected beforehand that this work would
soon become one of mere duty or routine: but we found. even before
we left Nubia, that we were hardly satisﬁed to sit down to breakfast
without having explored a temple. -

 

CHAPTER XI.
IBREEM.—DlRR.—-SUBOOA.—DAKKEH.—GARF HOSEYN.

Warm at breakfast the next morning (January 8th) we drew to
shore under the great rock on which stands lbreem. the station of Ro-
man and Saracenic garrisons, in times when it was necessary to over-
awe Nubia, and protect the passage southwards. It was unimportant
place during the wars of Queen Candace with the Roman occupants
of Egypt and Nubia. It appears that the word Candace was probably
a title and not a proper name,——it being borne by a series of Ethiopian
queens;—a curious circumstance by itself. Of the Queen Candace
who marched against lbreem (Prémnis) we are told by Strabo that she
was a woman of masculine courage. and had lost an eye.

We saw front our deck some grottoes in the rock, with paintings in-
side; and longed to et at them: but they were so diﬂicult of access,
(only by a rope) that r. E. went alone. They are of the time of the
great Ramases and three earlier sovereigns of the same period. The
painting is still vivid: representing votive offerings. There are some
very small statues in hi h reliefat the upper end.

I could not be satisﬁed without mounting the cliff: and from its sum-
mit I obtained a view second only to that above Aysoot. I could now .
understand something of the feeling which generates songs in praise of
Nubia; for many charming spots were visible from this height,—re-
ceases of verdure,—small alluvions. where the cotton shrub was covered
with its ellow blossoms. and crops of grain and pulse were springing
vigorous y. 0n the Arabian side. all looked dreary; the sandy areas
between its groups of black crags being sprinkled with Sheikhs’ tombs,
and scarcely anything else; and the only green being on a promontory
here and there jutting into the river. The fertility was mainly on the
Lybian shore; and there it must once have been, greater than now.
Patches of coarse yellow grass within the verge of the desert. and a
shade of gray over the sand in places, seemed to tell of irrigation and
drainage nowdisused. A solitary doum palm rose out of the sand,
here and there; and this was the only object in the vast yellow ex-
panse. till the eye. rested on the vast amethyst mountains which bounded
all to the south and west. Some of these hills advanced and some
receded. so as to break the line: and their forms were as strange and
capricious as their disposition. Some were like embankments: some
like round tumuli : some like colossal tents. The river here was broad
and sinuous; and, as far as I could see,,on either hand. its course was
Page-124
122 suntan Lira.

marked by the richest verdure. The freshness,and vastness, and sub-
lime tranquillity of this scene singularly impressed me.

The chief interest about the town or fortress was in the mixture of
relics,—E ptian, Greek. Roman, Saracenic and Turkish. The winged

lobe, Gree borders and columns, Roman walls, Mosques and Turkish

rtiﬁcations,—all these may be seen in half-an-hour’s walk, heaped
together or scattered about. The modern dwellings appear to be. for the
most part. made of rough stones, instead of mud;—the stones lying
ready to the hand. I suppose, and the mud having to be brought up the
rock. It is a truly desolate place now.

In the afternoon, we saw the capital :—Dirr, the capital of Nubia.
On the bank, we met the governor and his suite, with whom we ex-
changed salutations. We were walking so slowly. and were so ready
to be spoken to, that the governor might have declared his wishes to us
if he had not been shy. He preferred sending a message through our
Rais, whom we met presently after; and to whom he said that he was
ashamed to ask as himself, but he should be much obliged to us to give
him a bottle of wine. Such was the request of the Mohammedan
governor of the capital of Nubia! Our dragoman could not keep his
countenance when he delivered the message. We did not see his
excellency again, and he never sent for the wine; so he did not sin
against his law by our means. -

Dirr reminded me, more than any other place, of the African villages
which Mungo Park used to set before us. It hastwo noble sycamores
(so-called), one of which is the ﬁnest we saw in the country. It had
a deewin round it, where the old people might sit and smoke. while
the young sing and dance.‘ The governor's house is partly of burnt
brick.-—quite a token of tandem here. The other houses were of
mud, as usual ;—clean an decent. The cemetery shows signs of care.

- —some low walls. ornamented at the coping. surrounding some of the
graves, and pebbles being neatly strewn over others. The roads were
ankle—deep in dust. The palm-groves. with the evening light shining
in among the stems, were a luxury to the eye. The people looked
clean and open-faced. Some of them were very light; and these were
probably descended from Sultan Selim's Bosnians, like many of the fair-
complexioned people in the neighborhoodofthe sultan’s garrisons. Many
articles were oﬂered for sale.—the people hastening to spread their
mats in the dusty road,and the women holding out their necklaces and
bracelets. One woman asked ﬁve piastres for her necklace; and she
would have had them: but seeing this. she suddenly raised her de-
mand to twenty. She is probably wearing that necklace at this mo-
ment. The gentlemen bought mate for our tents here, giving nine
piastres (1:. Sid.) apiece for them.

The temple of Dirr interested as much from the novelty of its area
and portico being in the open air, when the rest of the temple is in
the rock. I may observe too that this was the only temple we saw in
Nubia which stood on the eastern bunk—The area once had eight
pillars. the bases only of which remain; and of its war pictures nothing
is visible but faint traces. I made out only a chariot wheel, and a few
Page-125
omit-queen. 123

struggling combatants. We have here the same subjects, and the
same deity, as at Aboo-Simbil. Ramases the Great consecrates his
victories to the god Ra, whom he calls his patron, and after whom he
is named Ramses—The corridor or portico is faced with four Osiride
pillars. Thron h it, we enter the rock part of the temple, and ﬁnd
ourselves in a all supported by six square pillars. The walls are
sculptured over in “intaglio relevato," as it has been called ;—that is,
the outlines are cut in a groove, more or less deep, and the relief of the
interior rises from the depth of the groove. The walls are now stained
and blackened; and they have a mouldering appearance which por-
tends speedy defacement. But the king and his captives, and his lion
and his enemies, and his gods and his children. are still traceable. Over
the lion, which seems a valuable auxiliary in the battles of Ramases,
and which is here seizing a captive, is written an inscription which says,
according to Champollion, “the lion, servant of his majesty, tearing his
enemies to pieces."—Champollion found here a valuable list of the
names of the children of Ramases. placed according to their age and
rank. In the small temple at Aboo-Simbil, the king has his son at his
feet. and his wife has her daughters, with their names and titles in-
scribed. At this temple of Dirr, the list is apparently made complete,
there being here seven sons and eight daughters, with declarations of
their names and titles.

The adytum is small. The four ﬁgures which it once contained are
gone: but their seat remains, and their marks against the wall. Two
dark chambers, containing some imperfect sculptures, are on either
hand; and this is all. This temple is twenty feet deeper in the whole
than the small one at Aboo-Simbil, but it is inferior in workmanship.

On our return to the dahabieh, we saw a sight very'rare to us now;
—a cloudy sky. The sky looked an‘ ry. with its crimson ﬂashes, and
low hanging ﬁery clouds. I We foun the people angry too,—-upon a
subject which makes people elsewhere strangely passionate,—a cur-
rency question. The inhabitants of Dirr have only recently learned
what money is, having traded by barter till within a very short time.
They had this evening some notion in their heads which our dragoman
and Rais thought absurd. about a change in the value of money in the
next trading village; and they came down to the bank clamoring for
more money for their mats and necklaces. When all explanation and
remonstrance failed to quiet them. Alee snatched up a tub, and threw
water over them; and then arose a din of screams and curses. We
asked Alee what the curses were: they were merely the rational and
safe hope that we might all die.

The crimson flushes faded away from the sky, and the angry clouds
melted: but we had now no moon except before breakfast, when we
were glad to see her waste daily.

There was another temple in waiting for us the next morning (Jan.
9th)—another temple of the Great Ramases;—that of Subooa. The
novelty here was a very interesting one; the Dromos (Course or avenue)
and its sphinxes.

The temple is about ﬁve hundred yards from the shore; and a few
Page-126
124 lunar: urn.

dwellings lie between. The sand was deep and soft, but, for once, de-
lightfully cool to the feet. at this early mornin hour. The sand has
been so blown up against the sphinxes as to have but little of them
visible. There are {our on each hand, as you go up to the propyla:
but one is wholly covered; and ﬁve others are more or less hidden.
Two are unburied; but their features are nearly gone. The head of
another is almost complete, and very striking in its wise tranquillity of
countenance. Two rude statues stand beside the sphinxes at the en-
trance of the dromoe; and two colossi lie overthrown and shattered
beside their pedestals at the inner end of the dromos, and before the
propyls. The cement seems to have fallen out between the stones of
the propyla: but over their mouldering surface are war—sculptures
dimly traceable z—the conquests of Ramases again. Within the te-
way is the hall where ten Osirides are ranged, ﬁve on each ban , di-
viding the ball into three aisles. Here I saw. for the ﬁrst time, how
these massive temples were roofed. The ten Osirides supported the
heavy architrave. whose blocks joined. of course, over the heads of the
colossi. From this architrave to the outer walls were laid massive blocks
of stone, which formed the roof. We shall see hereafter that when it
was desired to light the interior, the roof over the middle aisle was
raised above that of the side aisles; and the space left open, except for
the necessary supporting blocks, or (as at El-Karnak) a range of stone
gratings.

The Osirides here are very rude; composed of stones of various shapes
and sizes. cemented together. I suppose they were once covered with
cement; but now the look. at the ﬁrst glance1 like mere |fragments of
pillars. A second loolr. however, detects the crossed arms, and the orc-
sier and ﬂagellum.—Of the adytum at the extremity nothing was visible
but the globe and asps over its door; and the sand was so drifted into
the hall that we could see over the wall at the upper end.—It will be
perceived that this is a rude and ruined temple. with no interest be-

on ing to it but its antiquity and its array of sphinxes.

hat evening. we had the promise of another temple for the next
morning's work. We reached Dakkeh, the Pselché of Strabo, at 10
P. 11.: butwe could not moor under the western bank. from the strength
of the wind, and were obliged to stand across to the other shore.

The morning of the mm was bright and cool, and we were early
ashore, where we saw a good deal besides the temple. A village,
small, but not so minute as usual. stands near the bank; and its in-
habitants are good-looking and apparently prosperous. I saw from the
top of the propylon. a large patch of fertile land lying back on the edge
of the Desert. or in it. A canal or ditch carried water from the river
to this land, where there were two or more sakias to lift it. At least.
I saw a belt of ﬂourishing castor-oil plants and other shrubs extending
from the river to where they met the snkias. Further in the Desert, I
observed more of those gray expanses which tell of cultivable soil be-
neath, and of former irrigation. This must have been a ﬂourishing
district once; and it is not a distressed one now.

The women were much adorned with beads—blue. black, and white.
Page-127
Dunn. 125

Some would permit us to examine them: others ﬂed and hid them-
selves behind huts or walls, on our merely looking in their faces: and
of these none was so swift as the best dressed woman of them all. She
had looped back, with her blue necklace. the mantle she wore on her
head, to leave her hands and eyes free for making her bread. Of all
the scamperers she was the swiltest when our party began to look
about them. A mother and daughter sat on the ground within a small
enclosure, grinding millet with the antique quhern: a pretty sight, and
a dexterously-managed, though slow process. Several of the women
had brass nose-rings, which to my eyes look about as barbarous and
ugly as ear-rings; and no more. When'we come to the piercin ﬂesh
to insert ornaments, I do not see that it matters much whether t e ear
or nose is pierced. The insertion is surely the barbarism.

While I was on the top of the propylon of Dakkeh, I saw far off to
the northwest. a wide stretch of blue waters, with the reﬂection of
shores and trees. Rather wondering how such a lake or reach of the
river could be there. while the Nile seemed to be ﬂowing northeast,
and observing that these waters were bluer than those of the river. I
asked myself whether this could possibly be the mirage, by which I
had promised m self never to be deceived. My ﬁrst thought was of
mirage: but a ittle further study nearly convinced me that it was a
real water—either a lake left by the inundation. or a. reach of the river
brought there bya sudden bend. I was still sufﬁcient] uncertain to
wish my friends to come up and see; thou h the reerction of the
groves and clumps on the banks was as per ct as possible in every
line. Just as I was going down to call my party, I saw a man's head
and shoulders come up out of the midst of the lake :—a very large
head and shoulders—such as a man might have who was near at hand.
The sensation was strange, and not very agreeable. The distant blue
lake took itself off in ﬂakes. The head and shoulders belonged toa
man walking across the sand below: and the groves and clumps and
well-cut banks resolved themselves into scrubby bushes, patches of
coarse grass, and simple stones. This was the best mirage I have ever
seen, for its beauty and the completeness of the deception. I saw
many afterwards in the Desert; and a very ﬁne one in the plain of
Damascus: but my heart never beat again as it did on the top of the
Dakkeh propylon.' I had a noble view of the Desert and the Nile
from that height: and it was only sixty-nine steps of winding stair
that I had to ascend. These propyla were the watch-towers and bul-
warks of the temples in the old days when the temples of the Deities
were the fortiﬁcations of the country. If the inhabitants had known
early enough the advantage of citadels and rrisons, perhaps the
Shepherd Race might never have possessed t e country; or would,
at least, have found their conquest of it more difﬁcult than, according
to Manetho, they did. “ It came to pass," says Manetho (as Josephus
cites him), “I know not how, that God was displeased with us: and
there came up from the East, in a strange manner, men of an ignoble
race, who had the conﬁdence to invade our country, and easily sub-
dued itby their power, without a battle. And when they had our
Page-128
126 names am.

rulers in their bands, they burnt our cities, and demolished the tem-

les of the gods, and inﬂicted every kind of barbarity upon the inha-

itants, slaying some, and reducin the wives and children of others to
slavery." It could scarcely have appened that these Shepherds. “ of
an ignoble race," would have captured the country “ without a battle,"
and laid hands on the rulers, if there had been such citadels as the
later built temples, and such watch-towers and hulwarks as these mas-
sive prop la. Whenever] wentup one of them, and looked out through
the loop- oles in the thick walls,I felt that these erections were for
military. full as much as religious purposes. Indeed. it- is clear that
the ideas were scarcely separable. after war had once made havoc in
the valley of the. Nile. As for the non-military purposes of thae pro-
pyla;—they gave admission through the portal in the centre to the
visitors to the temple, whether they came in the ordinary way, or in
the processions which were so imposing in the olden times. It must
have been a ﬁne sight, from the loop-holes or parapets of these at
ﬂaukin towers—the approach or departure of the procession oﬁhe
day—t e banners bearing the symbol of god or hero; the boat-shrine,
borne by the shaven and white-robed priests, in whose hands lay most
of the power. and in whose heads all the learning, of their age. To
see them marching in between the sphinxes of the avenue, followed by
the crowd bearing oﬁ'erings;—the men with oxen, cakes, and fruits,
and the women with turtle doves and incense—all this must have been
a treat to man a sacerdotal watchman at this height. Such an one
had probably charge of the ﬂags which were hoisted on these occa-
sions on the propyla. There are, on many of these towers, wide per-
pendicular grooves. occupied by what look like ladders of hieroglyphic
ﬁgures. These grooves held the ﬂag-slaves on festival days. when the
banners, covered with symbols, were set ﬂoating in the air. These
propyla were good stations from which to give out news of the rising
or sinkin of the Nile: and they were probably also used for observa-
tories. They were a great acquisition to the country when introduced
or invented; and their introduction earlier might, perhaps, as l have
said, have materially changed the destinies of the nation. The in-
stances are not few in which these ﬂanking towers have been added to
a pylon of a much earlier date.

The interest of this temple is not in its antiquity. It is of various
dates; and none of them older than the times of the Ptolemies. The
interest lies in the traces of the diﬂerent builders and occupants of this
temple, and in the history (according to Diodorus) ot" the Ethiopian
king who built the adytum,—-the most sacred part of it. This king
Ergamun, who lived within half a century before our era, had his
doubts about the rectitude and reasonableness of the method by which
the length of kings' reigns was settled in Ethiopia. Hitherto, the
custom had been for the priests to send word to their brother, the king,
when the gods wished him to enter their presence: and every king,
thus far. had quietly destroyed himself. on receiving the intimation.
Ergamun abolished the custom,—not waiting, as far as appears, for his
summons, but going up to “a high place” with his troops, when he
Page-129
Dunn. 127

slew the priests in their tout lo, and reformed some of the institutions
which no one had hitherto ared to touch. Sir G. Wilkinson points
out the fact“ that a somewhat resembling custom still remains in a
higher region of Ethiopia. where it is thought shocking that a king
should die a natural death: that is, like other people. The kings of
this tribe. when they believe themselves about to die, send Word to their
ministers, who immediately cause them to be strangled. This is re-
ported by the expedition sent by the present ruler of Egypt to explore
the sources of the White Nile.

Though Ergamuu was not willing to take the word of the priests for
the will of the gods, he appears to have been forward in the service of
his deities, to whom he is seen presenting offerings, and whom he
proudly acknowledges as his patrons, guardians, and nourishers. The
old adytum, built by him, looks hoary and crumbling; more so than
the more ancient temples we have seen: but the sculptures are plainly
distinguishable. It is much blackened by ﬁres: but in one corner,
where the sculptures are protected by a block of stone which has fallen
across. I found a very clear group,—of the king standing between Ra
and Thoth, the god of intellect and the arts, concerning whom Socrates
relates a curious anecdote in the Phaedrus‘l’ of Plato. The two gods
are holding vases alolt, from which they pour each a stream of the em-
blem of life;—immortalizing “ the ever-living Ergamun," as his car-
touche calls him. Under the cornice are four decorative borders. on
the four sides of the chamber. One gives the emblems of Ra and
Thotb,-—the hawk and ibis,—squatted face to face in successive pairs:
another. the royal cartouches, guarded by hawks with expanded wings:
a third the emblem of duration or permanency: while on the one over
the door are strips of hieroglyphics. The thrones of gods and kin
have a compartment left in the lower corner of the massive seat, to a
ﬁlled up with devices. Sometimes this is done: sometimes not. In
this adytum the compartment is occupied by the device taken from
much older monuments, and see now on the pedestals of the pair at
Thebes,—the water plants of the god Nilus which are bound up to
support the royal throne.

here was enough of color left here to show us how materially the
effect of the sculpture was made to depend upon it. The difference in
the clearness of the devices is wonderful when they are seen in a mass,
and when each compartment or side of a chamber is marked off by broad
bands of deep color. The supplying of details, and yet more of per-
spective, by painting, gives a totally different character to the sculptures;
which difference ought to be allowed for where the colors have disap-
peared. I am not speaking here of the goodness or badness of the taste
which united painting and sculpture in the old Egyptian monuments.
I am only pointing out that it was the Egyptian met ad of representa-
tion; and that their works cannot therefore be judged of by the mere
outlines. The colors remaining in this chamber are a brilliant blue, a

' Wilkinson’s Modern Egypt and Thebes, II. 319.
1' Phaadr.TayL Trans. p. 364.
Page-130
128 1A8"!!! m.

le clear green (which survives everywhere and is beautiful), and a

all red,—deeper for the garments. lighter for the skins.

This chamber is completely cased, except the entrance, with more
modern building. It is shut in, roof and all," if it had been pushed
into a box. The old door-way, also the work of Ergamun, is built
round by a later devotee. The chambers erected by the Ptolemies
have some modern decorations mixed in with the ancient symbols,—
such as the olivewreath, a harp of a different make from the old Egyp-
tian, and the Greek caduceus, instead of the native one.

Some ye! more modern occupants have sadly spoiled this temple.
The Christians might very naturally feel that they could not go to
worship till they had shut out from their eyesight the symbols of the
old faith: and we therefore should not be hard upon them for luster-
ing over the walls. We should forgive them all the more ily be—
cause such plastering is an admirable method of preserving the old
sculptures. But the Christians must have their saints all aboutthem :
and there they are, dim, but obvious enou h,—-with huge wry faces,
and ﬂaring glories overtheir heads. Some 0 the sculptures which have
been restored, and some which appear never to have been plastered.
look beautiful beside these daubs.

In the portion of this temple we ﬁrst saw an instance of the more
modern, the Greek, way of at once incl-sing and lighting the entrance
to a temple,—by inter-columnar screens and doorway; called now a
portico in antic. I do not remember seeing this in any of the ancient
buildings; while it is found at Philte, Dendara. lens. and other Ptole-
maic erections. It has its beauty and convenience: but it does not
seem to suit the primitive Egyptian style, where the walls were re-
l'mved of their deaduess by sculpture, but. I think, never by breaks.

There are some Greek inscriptions on diﬂ'erent parts of this temple;
and two certainly which are not Greek. Whether they are Coptic, or
the more ancient Egyptian Enchorial writing. it is not for me to say.—
The outside of the temple is unﬁnished: and fragments of substantial
stone wall about it appear like work left. rather than demolished.
Within one of these walls, I found a passageia not uncommon dis-
covery among the massive buildings which might thus conveniently
communicate by a safe and concealed method.

This was our work before breakfast.—Another temple was ready for
us after dinnert—that of the ancient Tutzis. now Garf Hoseyn. ,

I walked on shore for afew minutes, while dinner was hastened: and
saw some agricultural proceedings which were amusing to a stranger.
Two or three donkeys were bringing down dust and sand from the
Desert, across a pretty wide tract of cultivated land, to qualify the rich-
ness of the Nile mud. Their panniers were mere frail-baskets; and
when they were emptied. the wind (which was strong) carried away a
Eoot‘l proportion of the contents; and the rest looked such a mere sprin-

ling, that I admired the patience which could procure enough for a
who e ﬁeld. But carts are not known so high up the Nile, nor panniers
worthy of the name. We had moored just under a sakia. whose creak
was most melancholy. This creak is the sweetest and most heart-
Page-131
our Hours. 129

stirring music in the world to the Nile peasant; just as the Alp-born is
to the Swiss. It tells of provision, property, wanted occupation. home,
the beautiful Nile. and beloved oxen. Any song would be charming
with such a burden. But to us it was a mere dismal creak; and when
it goes on in the night, as happens under a thrifty proprietor, I am told
it is like a human wail, or the or of a tortured animal. So much for
the operation of the same sound I rough different ideas! The shed of
this sakia was reall pretty ;-—inhabited by a sleek ox, and a sprightly
boy-driver; shaded y a roof of millet-stalks, and hung over with white
convolvulus and the purple bean of this region. Our Dongola sailor
caught up a little romping boy from among his companions, and brought
him on board by force. The terror of the child was as great as if we
had been agree. I could not have conceived anything like it, and should
be glad to know what it was that he feared. His worst moment of
panic seemed to be when we offered him good things to eat; though 'his
companions on shore were by that time calling out to him to take what
we oﬂered. His captor forced some raisins into his mouth; and his
change from terror to doubt. and from doubt to relish when he began
to taste his dose, was amusing to see. Raisins were not a bribe to de-
tain him, however; he was off like a shot, the moment he was released.
[suppose his adventure will be a family anecdote, for many generations
to come.

The ﬁrst view of the temple from a distance is very striking,—it.s
area pillars standing forth from the rock, like the outworks of the en-
trance gate of a mountain. This temple is of the time of the great
Ramases, and is dedicated to Phthah,—the god of Artisan Intellect and
Lord' of Truth:’——not the god of Truth, which has its own representa-
tive deity; but the possessor of truth, by which he did his creative
works. He is the efficient creator, working in reality and by funda-
mental principles, and not by accommodation or artiﬁce. The scara-
bseus was sacred to him (though not exclusively) and the frog: the lat-
ter as signifying the embryo ol' the human species; the former, as some
say. because the beetle prepares a ball of earth, and there deposits its
eggs, and thus presents an image of the globe and its preparation for
inhabitancy. However this may be, here we have the creative god,
the son of Kneph, the ordaining' deity, at whose command he framed
the universe. It may be remembered that this was the deity to whom,
according to tradition, the ﬁrst temple was raised in Egypt;—when
Menes, having redeemed the site of ‘Memphis from the waters. began
the city there, and built the great temple of Phthah, renowned for so
many ages afterwards.—Memphis and this Garf Hoseyn former] bore
the same name, derived from their deity :-—viz.,Phthahei or 'l‘hyp thah.
His temple has been found by some travelers as imposing as any on the
Nile. It has been compared even with Aboo-Simbil. This must be
owing. I think, to the singular crowding of the colossi within a narrow
space; and perhaps also to the hoary, blackened aspect of this antique
specs. The impression cannot possibly arise from any beauty of true

' Wilkinson’s Ancient Egyptians, IV. 250.
Page-132
180 narrate ms.

dear in the work,—to which the inspiration of the god seems to
ve been sadly wanting. We saw nothing ruder than this temple;
which yet is grand in its way.

The whole of it is within the rock except the area. The area has
four columns in front. and four Osirides. These colossi are round-faced
and ugly, and have lost their helmets, and some their heads. One head
lies to sy-turvyl the- placid expression of the face contrasting strangely
with t e agony of its position. The colossi do not hold the crosier and
ﬂagellum in their crossed hands, as usual; but both in the right hand,
while the left arm hangs by the side. On the remnant of the wall of
the area are some faint traces of sculpture, and two niches, containing
three ﬁgures each—The striking moment to the visitor is that of en-
tering the rock. He finds himself among six Osirides. which look
enormous from standing very near each other;—themselves and the
square pillars behind them seeming to ﬁll up half the hall. These
ﬁgures are, after all, only eighteen feet h' h; and of most clumsy work-
manship ;—with short thick legs. short i -shaped feet, and more bulk
than grandeur throughout. I observed here, as at Aboo-Simbil, that
the wide separation between the great toe and the next seems to tell of
the habitual use of sandals.

In the walls of the aisles behind the Osirides, are eight niches, each
containing three ﬁgures, in high relief. In every niche, the ﬁgures are
represented, I think. in the same attitude,—-with their arms round one
another’s necks; but they bear different symbols. The middle ﬁgure
of every mp is Ra, as patron of Ramases; and he is invoked as dwell-
ing at Su and Dirt, as well as here; the three temples bein . as we
have seen, of one group or family. Re is here called the son 0 Phthah
and Athor. The sculptures on the wall are now much blackened by

‘ the torches of visitors, and perhaps by Arab fires. But the bright
colors, of which traces yet remain, may have much ameliorated the
work in its own day. Across the usual corridbr, with its usual pair of
chambers inhabited by bats, lies the H01 Place. It has an altar in the
middle, and a recess with four ﬁgures. he goddess Anouké, crowned
with her citclet of feathers, and Athor are here. .

This temple extendeonly one hundred and thirty feet into the rock.
Its position and external rtico are its most striking features.

We returned by the vi age, and certainly should not have found out
for ourselves that the ople are the savages they are reputed to be.
They appeared friend y. cheerful, and well-fed. We looked into some
houses, and found the interiors very clean. Many of the graves of
their cemetery have jars at the head, which are duly ﬁlled wrth water
every Fridayf—the Mohammedan Sabbath. The door of a yard which
we passed in the village had an iron knocker, of a thoroughly modern
ap earance. I wonder how it came there.

ere was a strong wind this evening; and the boat rolled so much
as to allow of neither writin nor reading in comfort. We were not
sorry, therefore, to moor befow Dendoor. at 10 r. 1., and enjoy the
prospect of a quiet night, and another temple before breakfast.
Page-133
' nannoon. 131

CHAPTER XII.
DENDOOR.—KALKB’SHEH.—BIGGEH.—PHIL(E.—LEAVING NUBIA.

Or the temple of Dendoor there is little to sa , as it is of Roman
time, and therefore, only imitative Egyptian. It as a. grotto behind,
in the rock; and this grotto contains a pit; so I suppose it is a place
of burial. The temple is sacred to the great holy family of Egypt,
Osiris, Isis, and Horus; and the sacred chamber contains only a ta-
blet, with asculpture of Isis upon it, and a few hieroglyphic signs.
The quantity of stones heaped in and about this little temp e is remark-
able.

I took a wall: over the rising grounds behind till I lost sight of the
temple and our boat and people; and never did I see anything wilder
than the whole range of the landscape. There was a black crag
ravine on either hand, which must occasionally. I should think. be t e
passage of torrents. There are rains now and then, however rarely,
in this count ; and when they do come, they are violent. Some of
the tombs at hebes bear mournful witness of the force with which
torrents rush through any channels of the rocks that the can ﬁnd.
Not only were these ravines black, but the whole wide lan scape, ex-
cept a little peep of the Nile, and a bit of purple distance to the north,
and two lilac summits to the south, peeping over the dark ridge. No-
thing more dreary could well be conceived, unless it be an ex anse of
polar snow; yet it was exquisitely beautiful in point of coon—the
shining black of the whole surface, except where the shadows were
jet, the bright green margin of the inch of river; the white sheikh’s
tomb behind the palms on that tiny spot; and the glowin amethyst of
the two southern summits—these in combination were so t and brilliant
to a degree inconceivable to those who have not been within the tropics.
There was a bracing mild wind on this ridge, whichI by reviving the
bodily sense, seemed to freshen the outward world; and truly soml
was to return. This was my last gaze upon tropical scenery too. e
were to leave the tropic this afternoon, at Kalib’-sheh.

I suppose even such an out-of-the‘way region as this may be en-
lightened now and then as to foreign customs by the return of wander-
ing traders or voyagers. I saw today on the eastern share a house
which might have been built by an European; its front neatly painted
red and white; its doors yellow; and its windows of glass. It was
placed with its back to the prevailing north wind ; and it had a regu-

r approach between buttresses. Two houses near had glass windows
also. Some adventurous Nubian has come home a great man, proba-
bly, and is astonishing the natives with his outlandish ways.

While we were at‘ dinner of Kalib’-sheh, the people came down to
the shore, and made a market. When their wares were ranged, they
Page-134
132 asst-sax urn.

were a pretty-sight—the baskets of henneh, the spears and daggers,
and the curiosities dug out from the tem les.

Having happily some idea what to 100 for here, we hastened to the
small speos of Beyt-el-Wellee, a quarter of a mile from the large tem-

le, while we yet had full daylight. The view from the entrance is

autiful, commanding the recess of fertile ground which seems to ﬂow
in from the river, and ﬁll the angle between the hills. This recess was
clustered with palms which were soft] swa ing their shadowy heads
below us. The opposite shore was 0 the . right yellow of evening;
and to the right, below us, stood the massive temple of Kalib’-sheh,
with its outworks of heaped stones, and its traces of terraces, ﬂi hts of
steps, and quays. all the way down to the river. This little roc -tem-
ple of Beyt-el-Wellee is as interesting as anything in Egypt, except
the remains of the First Period. It is full of the glory of the great
Ramases again. But it is not dedicated to Ra. but to Amunra—not to
the Sun of the Universe, but to the Spiritual Sun—the universal cen-
tre of Being—the Unknown and Unutterable—the God of Gods. With
him is joined Kneph, the ram~headed god, the animating Spirit of the
creation, which gives Life to its organized beings—thus working toge-
ther with Phthah, the creator. or Artisan-Intellect. The third deity of
this little tem le is the virgin goddess Anouké, the goddess of Purity
and Household) ties. She a pears very frequently in the more ancient
temples, and was especially onored in this southern region, where she
becomes quite familiar, with her feather crown, her sceptre of lotus in
one hand, and the symbol of Life in the other.

The a preach to the cave entrance is between quarried rocks covered
with sculptures of extraordinary merit; of which] shall have to speak
presently. The temple itself consists of only two chambers :—-the
outer hall and the Holy Place. At ﬁrst, one’s impression is that one
can see nothing, except the two elegant polygonal pillars which were
supporting this roof ages before they gave the hint of the early Doric.
A few hieroglyphic signs on the faces of these pillars engage the eye;
. which is then led on to distinguish bands of color; and presently to
perceive that the walls have been divided into compartments by mar-
gins of color, and rows of hieroglyphic signs. Some dim appearance
of large ﬁgures, under the films of dust and mould, is next perceived;
and in the inner chamber, it was plain, as Mr. E. pointed out to me,
that one ﬁgure had been washed. There were the tricklin of the
water, from the feet to the ground; and the ﬁgure was, thoug dim, so
much brighter than everything else, that I felt irresistibly tempted to
try to cleanse a bit of the wall, and restore to sight some of its ancient
paintings. We sent down to the boat—about half a mile, for water,
tow. soap, and one or two of the crew; and while the rest of my party
went to explore the great modern temple,I tucked up my sleeves,
mounted on a stone, and began to scrub the walls, to show them
Hasan what I wanted him to do. I would let no one touch the ,
however, till I had convinced myself that no color would come 03‘.
The colors were quite fast. We might rub with all our strength with-
out injuring them in the least. It was singularly pleasant work, bring-
Page-135
asu-an-wam. 133

ing forth to view these elaborate old paintings. The colors came out
bright and deep as on the day they were laid on—so many thousand
years ago! Every moment, the details of the costume and features
showed themselves on the kingly ﬁgure I was unveiling; the red and

ellow pattern on the crown, and the ﬂagellum: the armlets, bracelets,

Its, and straps; the ends of the sash; the folds of the garment, and
its wrapping over above the knee; the short mantle, the vest, the tip-

t or necklaces. and the devices of the throne. It began to grow dusk

fore we had ﬁnished two ﬁgures; and, indeed, I cannot say that we
completely ﬁnished any; for a slight filminess spread over the paintings
as they dried, which showed that another rubbing was necessary. I
did long to stay a whole day, to clean the entire temple; but this could
not be done. I was careful to give a dry-rubbing to our work before
we left it. that no injury might afterwards arise from damp; and I trust
our attempt may et be so visibly recorded on the walls as to induce
some careful trave er to follow our example, and restore more of these
ancient paintings.

The sculptures on the outside, on either hand of the approach, are
now quite destitute of color; and it does not seem to he wanted here. so
ﬁnished are the details—On one side we see Ramases on his throne.
receiving a world of wealth in the shape of tribute from the conquered
Ethiopians. The Prince of Cash and his two children, all captives,
are brought up by the eldest son of the conqueror; the names of all the
parties being affixed in hieroglyphic characters. We see piles of os-
trich’s eggs, of gold, and ornaments; and array of fans, elephants’
teeth, leopard s ins. and other southern wealth; a troop of Ethiopians
bringing an 0 x (antelope). a lion, oxen and gazelles: and in the
lower line of tri ate-bearers, we see apes and a camelopard. These
articles are admirable likenesses; and the whole procession is a most
lively spectacle. But the battlevscene at the outer end is remarkably
interesting. from the representation given of the wildness of the enemy's
country. The foe are ﬂying into the woods; and a woman cooking
under a tree is warned by her little son that the conqueror is comin .
A wounded chief (of whom she may be the wife), is carried by his so-
diers; and a boy is throwing dust on his head, in token of despair.
The king and his two sons are in separate chariots, each with his cha-
rioteer: and the king is discharging his arrows as he goes—Else-
where on these walls. the king is his own charioteer, havm the reins
fastened round his waist. that his arms may be left free. T e animals
are. as usual in these old sculptures, admirably done; the heads of the
oxen appearing to my eye as good in their quiet way as the hull of
Paul Potter, in his more vehement mood.

The foe on the opposite wall is supposed to be some people in Ara-
bia Petraaa;—Eastern at all events. We have the conqueror again. on
his throne, with his lion reposing at its base; in his car; in single com-
bat, and in the act of slaying his foes. We have a walled cit ; and
the other accompaniments of these war-pictures: but the Ethiopian
tribute, and the woman cooking at her ﬁre in the wood are more inte-
resting to the observer of this day.
Page-136
184 ms urn.

I was struck by the extraordinary grace of some of the objects about
this temple. The lam used in the oﬁ'erings to the deities is beauti-
ful;—a delicate hand olding a cup from which the ﬂame issues;
while an oriﬁce at the elbow-end of the lamp is receiving the oil.—In
one of the groups in the adytum.[ saw the ﬁrst instance I had met
with (except in the rude sculptures of Garf Hoseyn) of a departure
from the severity of attitude usually observed. The union of the deities
in the reception of homage is marked by the arm of the one hanging
over the shoulder of the other.

We are told by Sir G. Wilkinson that this temple has been the abode,
at some time, of a Mohammedan hermit.“ Some have supposed that
the Christians have been here, obliterating the sculptures. I saw no
traces of them; and I think the cloudingoover of the paintings is no
more than may be accounted for by lapse of years, and, possibly, a less
dry situation than that of many of the old monuments. We must re-
member that this temple is more than three thousand years old.

On leaving the shadowy specs, I found there was still daylight
enough for a survey of the renowned great temple of Kalab’sheh. I
was glad to go over it, and admire its magniﬁcence, and the elegance
of many parts; and be amazed at its vastness; but it is too modem to
interest us much here. It was founded and carried on—(not quite to
completion --by one after another of the Creams: and it is therefore
not truly ptian. The most interesting circumstance to me was
that here we could form some judgment of the eﬂect of the Egyptian
color-decoration: for here there were two chambers in ﬁne preserva-
tion, except where water had poured down from the massive lion-head
spouts (Roman) and had washed away the colors. The relief to the
eye of these strips of pure sculpture was very striking. My conclu-
sion certainly was, from the impression given by these two chambers,
that, however valuable color may be for bringing out the details. and
even the perspective. of sculptured designs, any large a gregate of it ,
has a very barbaric appearance.—Still, we must not ju e of the old
Egyptian painting by this Roman specimen. The disk '0 Isis is here
painted deep red,—the color of the ordinary complexion. The pale
green and brilliant blue of the ancient times are present; and I saw
here, and here only, a violet or plum-color.

As for the rest. this temple is a heap of magniﬁcent ruin; magniﬁ-
cent for vastness and richness; but not for taste. One pillar standing
among many overthrown,—rich capitals toppled down among rough
stones; and such mounds of fragments as make us wonder what force
could have been used to cause such destruction.—-these are the interest
of this temple. It may be observed, too, that the adytum has no ﬁgure
at the end, and that it appears never to have been ﬁnished. It is a
singular spectacle,—the most sacred part unﬁnished. while the capitals
of the outer columns, with their delicate carvings of vine-leaves and
tendrils twining among the leaves of the doum palm, are overthrown
and broken!

' Wilkinson's Modern Egypt and Thebes, II. p. 313, (note)
Page-137
ms. 185

This temple is believed to have stood on the site of an older one,
from some ancient memorials beingvfound on a few of the stones em-
ployed: but the existing building was begun in the reign of Augustus,
carried on by some of his successors, and never ﬁnished—As it was
the largest temple in Nubia, the Christians naturally laid hands on it;
and a saint, and several halos look out very strangely from among the
less barbarous heathen pictures on the walls of the room within the
outer hall. ' .

This svenin we descended the rapids of Kalib’—sheh‘, and had left
the tropic: an a cold, blowing evening it wan—Early next morning,
the three pylons of ,the Dabéd temple—its distin ishiug feature,—
stood out clear on their sandy platform. These py one are almost the
only interesting thing about this temple, which is of . the time of the
early Ptolemies, and carried on by Auaustus and Tiberius. It never
was ﬁnished; and now its massive wallls are cracked and bending in
all directions. The soil below seems washed or actually grubbed out,
so as to endanger the mass above. ' ,

There is a mummy-pit in the brow of the hill, a quarter of a mile
behind. I went to see what the little clouds of dust meant, and found
some men and boys pulling out human legs and arms for our ratiﬁca-
tion. Iwas much better pleased with the view I obtained mm the
next ridge, whence I saw to the south-west the sandstone quarries
which furnished the material for the temple. The recesses and pro-
jections of the stone looked as sharp cut as ever.

We were now only six milés from Philt'e, where we were to remain
twenty-four hours. After posting up our journals, we had enough to
do in admiring the beauty of the scenery, which we had seen before
only in the vagueness .cf moonlight. I think the five miles above
Philm the most beautiful on the Nile, and certainly the most varied,—
with the gorges among the rocks, the black basalt contrasting with the
springing wheat and the yellow sands, and the dark green palms;—
and soon, Phila: opening on the sight, and its hypaethral temple, (built
to look beautiful from hence,) setting up its columns against the sky:
and all this so shut in by coves and promontories, and the water rendered
so smooth by its approach to the dam of the islands, as to make of the
whole an unique piece of lake scenery. Two mosques, a convent, and
a sheikh’s tomb on a pinnacle of the rock, gave character to the scene:
and so did a woman on the shore, with her veiled face and water-jar,
reminding us that we were re-entering Egypt Proper. I could not
bear to miss any part of this approach to Philce; and I therefore carried
my dinner up to the deck, and received all that singular imagery,
never to lose it again while I live.

At four o’clock we were close upon Philu: : but the island of Big-
geh, also sacred. looked tempting, and we turned towards it. to explore
its remains before sunset. The black rocks round show inscriptionsin
great numbers : and these are full of light and interest. Some are of
the Pharaohs of a very early time; actually inscribed b the tributary
kings who reigned at Thebes during the dominion of t e Shepherds ;
and others of the great monarchs who drove out the Shepherds, and
Page-138
186 amen: Lin.

raised the glory of Egypt to its highest point. Some inscribe merel
their names—their cartouches, which catch the eye on every han .
Some append to these the declaration that they came in pil ’mage to
the gods of these holy places. Some carve a record of t e granite
blocks they have taken for their public works; and others leave a de-
claration of their victories over the Ethiopians. What an inestimable
country this is. where the very rocks by the wayside oﬁ'er indisputable
materials of history to you as you pass by! /

The other remains on Biggeh are forlorn enough. Two columns
exist of a temple of the Ptolemies re-built upon a very old Pharaonic
foundation. Fra cuts of sculpture lie about: and one pictured wall
forms the side a a sordid Arab hat; The Christians have broken
away parts of two great sculptured blocks to lodge an arch, which
looks hideous. Wherever, in these two islands, the intaglios are ﬁlled
up with mud, and the reliefs and paintings covered with clay, it is the
work of the Christians, who took possession of the temples of the re-
gion for their worship.

I could not leave the high grounds of this island while the sun lighted
thermap-like expanse below and around me. The chaotic rocks, the
desert, river, and distant settlements would have absorbed ms at any
other time: but now, to the south, lay the Holy Island, beyond the
gold-crowned palms which waved below my feet, and beyond the piled
rocks and clear shadowy river which interposed. The plan of its edi-
ﬁces was clear under my eye ; and' their su erb range was fully dis-
played, as the sunlight was leaving the'ir onnades, moment by mo-
ment, and at last lingerin on] on the summits of the propyla. When
the last ray melted into the g ow which succeeds the sunset. we hast-
ened down to the boat, and rowed over to Pbilua, to the eastern cove,
below the hyptethral temple, where we had moored this day fortnight,
on our way up. There was still time, before the twilight was gone, for
a run up to the temples. I came down again, amazed at the vastness
of the sculptures on the propyla, and oppressed by a sense of the mass
and the intricacy of the ediﬁces. I felt, as I had done twice before, lost
among them. But this perplexity was dispelled, and the whole ar-
rangement made clear, by the careful study of the next day.

We all rose early on the morning of the 13th of January; and by
half-past seven, we were up at the temples, having breakfasted, and
sent away our kandjia, to descend-the Cataract, and transfer the stores
to the dahabieh.

I spent the ﬁrst two hours quite alone—setting out to learn the plan
of the temples. but lingering at almost every step, impressed by the
majesty of the appareil of worship, or bewitched by the beauty of the
details of the adornments.

The confusion of temples of which travelers complain cannot arise
from their number. The remains consist of the great temple of Isis
with its accessories : a little chapel to Athor; a western chapel where
the god Nilus is much honored; a little chapel, modernLtoEsculapius;
the hy aathral temple vulgarly called Pharaoh’s Bed; and various edi-
ﬁces o approach from the river. This is not so much to learn! The
Page-139
me- 137

confusion seems to me rather to. arise from the absence of symmetry
which, remarkable elsewhere in Egypt, is singularly striking here.
I ventured upon making a plan, by the eye and a rough measurement,
thatI might not hereafter disbelieve the extraordinary perverseuess of
the arrangements. As this plan lies before me, I see that the propyla
do not agree with each other; nor with the colonnade in the avenue;
nor with those in the area. No two chambers are of the same size.
The doorways do not answer to each other, any more than the columns.
There is a total want of coherence‘of parts. This is not only an im-
pediment to understanding the ediﬁces. but it causes incessant vexation
to the eye, which is baulked of a View through gateways. and offended
by twists and false measurements. This peculiarity once allowed for,
I do not think the group of temples difﬁcult to understand.

The ﬁrst requisite to a ﬁtrsurvey of the Holy Island and its remains,
is a knowledge of why the place is so holy. And in order to under-
stand why the place is so holy, it is necessary to be informed of the
history and ofﬁces of Osiris. Iwish I might hope that any of my
readers—any who have not traveled in Egypt—could be at all im-
pressed with the seriousness of this subject. To my mind. no subject
is so solemn as that of the faith of any race of men—their sustaining
and actuating faith—be its objects what they may. And the objects ‘of
a sustaining and actuating faith must always be solemn and noble.
Whatever their names may be, they have in them a majesty and en-
dearment which place completely in the wrong all who ignorantly ab-
hor or despise them. How ignorant and how guilty'we ourselves may
have been in our careless contempt of the idolatries of the world, we
may come to perceive, when we have learned to do as we would be
done by in separating the Ideas of any faith from its outward celebra-
tions—its philosophy from its corruptions ;—and when we become
wise enough to discern the close relations which we have now reason
to believe exist among all the effectual faiths which have ever operated
widely upon mankind. How serious 2 research that is which would
discover the attributes and functions of ancient deities. one may partly
feel in contrasting the glibness with which the hallowed name of Osiris
slips off the modern tongue with the reserve of old Herodotus. who, like
other serious-minded men of his time, could not bring himself to name
Osiris at all. I am aware of something of the same contrast in myself.
Before I went to Egypt. I talked of the deities of that old nation as
school children talk of Neptune and Apollo; as once fanciful person-
ages who have become mere poetical images. It is very different now.
As I read old Herodotus on the spot. the awe which made him dumb
where I most wished him to speak, thrilled through me. There the
calm benign gods were no poetical images, but embodied aspirations of
the lolliest powers of man. There, the altars were no mere blocks of
disenchanted stone. but the still inviolable depositories of the reverence.

titude, and hope of whole races of thoughtful human beings, who
ere acknowledged One unutterable Eternal Being. through whose
Attributes they lived. and moved, and had their being. We are apt,
at home, to suppose that language to as sacred from religious associa-
Page-140
188 lunar ms.

tions, is either exclusively ours, or could not have meant the same to
people living before our form of faith arose. But what should we say
so such a supposition on the part of a more advanced race sueoeedin
ourselves? Ou ht not they'to admit the sacredness to us of oursa
language! An are we not bound to admit the sacredness to the old
Egyptians of the devotional language which we ﬁnd inscribed in the
Ho y Chambers of their temples. and which is delivered to us from out
of the records of their faith? This is not claimin parity of value for
their objects of faith and ours. It has nothing to o with the compara-
tive elevation. purit , and promise of any two faiths. 'It is merely a
claim that the Old tians should be regarded as having a faith; a
faith to which they mig t refer the loftiest ideas of a high order of in-
tellect, and in which they might repme the affections of their common
human heart. Without a clear admission of this much,in that spirit of
brotherhood which should unite us with the distant in time as tmly as
with the distant in space, there is no use in inquiring into the history
and ofﬁces of Osiris, or of any other object of worship.

Different districts of the great valley assigned their higher honors to
different : but Osiris, Isis, and their son Horus were generally
held in t e deepest reverence. I believe that, except the Supreme,
Osiris was the only deity who was never named. When Herodotus
has described the scourgings and lamentings which follow the sacriﬁces
at the feast of Isis, he adds' that it is not permitted to him to tell in
whose honor they scourge themselves and lament. And again, in
describing the images of the dead, prepared for the guidance of the
embalming process, Herodotus saysd that the best represents, as he is
told, Him whose name he has an ob'ection to utter. And thus he
always s aka of Osiris. by reverent a usion, and never by name. The
reason 0 this peculiar sacredness of Osiris, above all gods but the Sn-
preme, was his ofﬁce of Jud eof the livin and the dead. That which
made him so universally an eminently a ored was his being the repre-
sentation, or rather the incarnation, of the Goodness of the Supreme.
The plurality of deities in Egypt arose from the practice. for popular
use. of deifying the attributes of the Supreme God. We have thus
seen his creative Spirit or Will embodied in one god; and the creative
art. or Artisan Intellect, in another; and we shall meet with more.
His primary attribute. his Goodness, was embodied in Osiris; who left
his place in the presence of the Supreme, took a human form, (though
not becoming a human being),§ went about the world doing good to
men, sank into death in a conﬂict with the Power of Evil ;l| rose up to
spread blessings over the land of Egypt and the world, and was ap-
pointed Judge of the Deaddl and Lord of the heavenly region, while
present with his true worshipers on earth. to do them good. Such
were the history and functions of Osiris, as devoutly recorded by the

ptians of several thousand years ago. And here. in Philce, was his
sepulchre, where the faithful came in pilgrimage, from the mighty

' Herod. II. 61. 1' Ibid. ll. 86.
I Wilkinson‘s Ancient Egyptians, IV. 189. § lbid. IV. 817.
I Ibid. IV. 189. ll Ibid. IV. 314.
Page-141
rm. 139

Pharaoh to the despised goat herd, for a long course of centuries. He
was especially adored for other reasons than his beneﬁtetions: as being
the only manifestation on earth of the Sn reme God. This made him
superior to the eight great gods. after whom he ranked on other ac-
counts.” How the manifestation was made in a human form without
an adoption of human nature. was one of the chief Egyptian mysteries ;1'
the ideas of which will now, I fear, never be offered to our apprehen-
sion. Upon his death. he passed into the region of the dead, (home
there, as the sculptures represent, by the four genii of Hades)—and
tJhllln. having passed through its stages, was raised to the function of
u get

Among the allusive names of Osiris were those of “ Opener of
good,"§ " Manifester of grace,” and " Revealer of truth :" and the de-
scription of him was, in the ancient words, "full of cc and truth."||
He obtained the victory after his death over the Evi Principle which
had destroyed him :1] and it was in his name, which they then assumed,
that the virtuous, after judgment, entered into the state of blessedneu
which they shared with him." The departed, men and women alilre,
were called Osiris: this spiritual name betokening that they were now
in that state where sex was abolished, where no marriage existed, but
human beings had become pure as the heaven-born inhabitants.”

When it is said that Osiris was the only manifestation of the Supreme
upon earth, it must be understood that this means the only manifesta-
tion by a native heavenly resident. For all animated beings were
supposed to be emanations- from the Centre of Life}: The great
emanation doctrine which has spread so far over the world was cer-
tainly a chief point of faith in Egypt at a ve earl date; and it is
believed that Pythagoras, recognizing it in allt air 0 ervanceswhich
were expositions of doctrine. adopted it from them, and thence sent it
on through distant countries and future ages. Plutarch ascribes to the
belief of this doctrine the peculiar Observances with regard to animals
in E pt. The passage is too well known to need citing here: but it
is va uable, not only as testifying to this great fact of the Egyptian
mind, but as showing that persons comparatively ancient were wiser
than too many of ourselves in seeing in their practice of what we call
Brute worship semething deeper and more serious than we have been
taught to look for. Plutarch cites Herodotus as saying that whatever
beings have been endowed with life and any measure of reason are to
be regarded as efﬂuxes, or portions of the supreme wisdom which
governs the universe; so that the Deity is not less strikin ly repre-
sented in these than in images of any kind made by the ban of man.
Porphyry declares “ the Egyptians perceived that the Divinity entered
not the human body only, and that the Soul dwelt not, while on earth,
in man alone. but passed in a measure through all animals." Thus
Osiris was not the only manifestation of the universal Soul: and so far

' Wilkinson's Ancient Egyptians, IV. 317. 1' Ibid. IV, 317.
Plutarch de Iside, s. 35, cited by Wilkinson, Ancient Egyptians, IV. 3‘20.
Plut. do Is. I. s. 42. ll Wilkinson‘s Ancient Egyptians, IV. 189.
1l Ibid. IV. 320. " Ibitl. IV. 320. 11' Ibid. IV. 316. It Ibid. IV. 316.
Page-142
[40 smart urn.

shared the lot of the humblest worm bred in the mud of the Nile; but
he was the only member of the heavenly society, the only one of the
sons of the Supreme. who came upon earth to make him known: and
he thus took rank above them all.

It is impossible not to perceive that Osiris was to the old Egyptians
what the Messiah is to be to the Jews; and what another has been to
the Christians. The nature, character and oﬂices of Osiris, and the
sacred language concerning him are so coincident with those most
interesting to Christians as to compel a very careful attention on the
part of inquirers into Egyptian antiquities. Various solutions of the
extraordinary fact have been offered. Some who hold to the literal
historical truth of the book of Genesis suggest.“ their conjecture. that
Noah may have foreknown everything relating to the coming of Christ,
even to t e language which should be used concerning him by sacred
writers: and that his descendants may have communicated all this to
the ancient Egyptians, who made a God out of the rophecy and its
adjuncts) Others have endeavored to make out sncli personal inter-
course between Pythagoras and some of the Hebrew prophets on the
one hand, and the Egyptian priests on the other, as might account for
the parallelism in questionJ Others would have us understand it by
concluding that the latest Egyptian priests were disciples of Plato, and
put their own Platouising interpretations on the character of Osiris, as
the Platonising Christians did on that of Christ. Others again, who
see that ideas are the highest subject of human cognizance, the history
of ideas the only true history, and a common holding of ideas the only
real relation of human beings to each other. believe that this great con-
stellation of ideas is one and the same to all these diﬂ'erent peo-
ples; was sacred to them all in turn, and became more noble and more
glorious to men’s minds as their minds became strengthened by the
nourishment and exercise of ages. It is a fact which on ht to be at-
tended to while considering the various solutions offered, t at the cha-
racter and oﬁces of Osiris were certainly the same in the centuries
which preceded the birth of Abraham—in the very earliest times known
to us,—-as after the death of Pythagoras and Plato. This is proved by
the sculptures in the oldest monuments. We see in the tombs cotetn-
{grar with the Pyramids that Osiris was to men then living the same

as actor and ﬁnal judge that he was to the subjects of the Ptolemies.1

As Osiris was the manifestation of the goodness of the Supreme
Bein , he was naturally identiﬁed with the most obvious beneﬁts for
whic the old Egyptians desired to be thankful: and to them the great-
est of beneﬁts was the Nile. Hence arose one of their most beautiful
traditionary ﬁctions; that his body was deposited in the cataract. whence
he arose once a year, to spread blessings over the earth. Hence he
was called also the author of agriculture, as the inundation may be well
considered. Hence he is made to say, in one of the most ancient in-
scriptions, that he is the eldest son of time, and cousin to the day; and

‘ Wilkinson’s Ancient Egyptians, IV. 188.
1' Boyle. Arr. Pythagoras, Note It.
I Wilkinson’s Ancient Egyptians, IV. 328.
Page-143
runes. 141

that there is no place where he has not been, distributing his beneﬁts
to all mankind.‘

It appears that the antagonism of Good and Evil was not very early
recognized in Egypt. At ﬁrst, Typho was called the brother of Osiris;
and good and evil were supposed to be nearly related, and both Claim-
ing homage. as necessary and therefore worthy of acceptance. When
the god of Evil came to he hated, his sacriﬁces began to be discontinued,
and we even ﬁnd his images carefull obliterated. He then became
the murderer of Osiris, and was in eague with Antae, of whom we
have before seen something. and who represented the sand of the De-
sert. This was an old feud,—this that we witness in our day, between
the Nile and the Desert! Osiris declares himself, in the old inscrip-
tion, “ cousin to the day;" and Typho was the god of the Eclipse.
Thus, as the old Egyptian philosophy declined, and the corruption
crept in which is the invariable consequence of polytheism, the brother-
hood of the two attributes grew into antagonism. and Typho became the
hated and ugly monster that we see him in the sculptures,—the Satan
of the Nile valley, with the ranging hippopotamus for his symbol.

It was in his ofﬁce of judge o the dead that Osiris was presented
to the minds of Egyptian nests at their banquets, in the mode of a.
mummy. which was carried round, as Herodotus says,1"after the feast,
to remind every one of his mortality. His name might not be uttered;
but his idea was to be ever present. The Greeks gave their own turn
to this observance. as Anacreon shows us,‘ and used this memento mort'
as an incentive to the more eager pursuit of transient pleasure. The
Egyptians were more serious minded, and at the same time more cheer-
ful in their views of death. Their view seems to have been that which
Thales is wondered at for having professed, and which he probabl
adopted while in Egypt, that there is nothing to choose between 1i 6
and death. The accounts of the saying uttered during the ceremony
vary,—as perhaps the exhortations themselves varied in course of time.
According to Herodotus, it was “Look at this man: you will be like
him when you are dead. Drink now, and enjoy yourselves.” Plu-
tarch gives it more vely. The guest was told that men ought “ to
love one another, an avoid those evils which tend to make them con-
sider life too long, when in reality it is too short." Whatever was said,
Osiris was oﬂered to the eye, with his insignia of judgment, the crosier
and ﬂagellum, in his hands. ’

Osiris was said to have forty-nine titles: Isis ten thousand: We see
her now in her temple at Philm, as the mourning widow of Osiris, and
the mother of Horus. She was the daughter of Seb, or Time; and
therefore the sister of Osiris: and it is said that the practice, not un-
common among the priests, and far too common among the Ptolemies,
of marrying their sisters, arose from the example of this pair ;—from its
being supposed that such meninges must be fortunate. We sometimes '
see Isis as the Land of Egypt, when Osiris is rising from the river.

' Wilkinson‘s Ancient Egyptians, IV. 323.
1' Herod. II. 78. I Wilkinson’s Ancient Egyptians, IV. 321, 317.
Page-144
142 Results urn.

She is the Protectress of Osiris, covering his corpse with her wings.
This is a beautiful representation of her, and one which I was never
tired of meeting. Sometimes she is nursing Horus. But her most
important ofﬁce is that of colleague of Osiris in the judgment of the
dead. From her, in this ofﬁce, the Greeks directly derived their
Hecate; her oﬂice bein not only the same, but her name standing
inscribed. at this day, “ is, the potent Hekte."‘ As the bringer to
judgment. she is sometimes called the Giver of Death, and crowned
with the asp. Herodotus says that the Egyptians regarded Isis as the
greatest of all the divinities.1’ It might be so in his age: and her fes-
tivals, as witnessed by him, were no doubt very majestic: but there is
no reason to believe that in an older time she was so much honored as
the deities who represented a higher Ideal.—'I‘he heifer was held sacred
to Isis; and no heifer was ever permitted to be slaughtered in Egypt¢
The young Horus, her infant, was adopted by the Greeks and called
Harpocntes, and made the god of silence by his ﬁnger being on his lips.
The Egyptian “Her.“ however, seems to signify childhood, in the
sense 0 entrance or re-entrance upon life; of production or reproduc-
tion.§ In Hades, he appears seated on a lotus, before the throne of
Osiris, and in front of the candidate for jud ment. He is the child, or
new life, of the region beyond the tomb. ﬁre lotus, on which the child
is seated, is reproductive in a singular manner, as Payne Knight tells
us,|I—by.new ﬂowers springing from seeds which could not escape

from their sheaths. Isis is perpetually sewn llllitllllﬂ :lu- etc!“ of the
lotus: and the lotus pillar, common ewi-ywhi n: m l'lgyirl. almonds es-
pecially at Philua. It is a remarkable incl. told us by l’uynu Knight,
that Isis, with Horus on her lap, is limml Mn :1 lmivlunil drum, and
also in ancient Muscovite worship: and mm :1 gnhlvn lmi'sr for a
symbol of worship, 01' idol}! The Lapland gl‘tltlt'b'ﬁ [an or Disa is

symbolized also by a pyramid. with lid: l‘lL’ylilHlll t'HllilV'Ill V'll‘ Life (the
most sacred of E ptian symbols) on the apex." How the ancient faiths
and their symboiybecame spread over the world, from the Ganges to
Yucatan, is a question too deep and wide for us to enter on here: but
if any portion had a better chance than another of diﬂ'usion by the in-
tercourses of man, it was such as related to Osiris, [sis and Horus;
not only by their congeniality with universal ideas, but by means of
the concourse of strangers who for man centuries came in pilgrimage
to these holy islands of Biggeh and hilce; at one time the most en-
lightened spots in the known world.

The most interestin part to me of this beautiful group of temples
was a chamber reached from the roof, always retired and somewhat
diﬂicult of access, which represents the death and resurrection of Osiris.
This chamber is nearly over the western adytum, forming an upper
_story of the Holy Place. Here is sculptured the mourning of Osiris,

' Wilkinson’s Ancient Egyptians, IV. 367, 369, 384. 1' Herod. II. 40.
Larcher. Note on Herod, II. 41.
Wilkinson‘s Ancient Egyptians. IV. 407. '
II Inquiry into the Symbolic Language of Ancient Art and Mythology.—Clauical
Journal. 1i Ibid. " Ibid.
Page-145
rams . 143

and his embalming, funereal transit, reception by the spirits of Hades,
and ﬁnal investiture as Judge of the Dead.—The next most interesting
portion is the birth of Horus,—to which subject the western temple is
devoted. The Christians have made and havoc hero, with their mud-
plastering; but signiﬁcant portions may be made out; and at the end,
sufﬁcient clearance has been eﬂ'ected to bring out the beautiful group
of Isis with Horus on her knees, receiving homage on all hands, the
guardian hawk overhead being surrounded with a glory of radiating
water-plants. ‘

What a symbol is this defacement itself of that action of the inﬁrm
human mind which is for ever obliterating, as far as it can, all ideas
but its own! How faithless, in fact, as well as ignorant, is that zeal
which would extinguish as den rous all conceptions but those which
suit its own transient needs, anﬁhich considers as false and doomed to
destruction all ideas, and all expressions of them, which are not at the
moment present to themselves! And how great is the symbolical ens
oouragement here in the durability of the old representations, and the
ineﬁ'ectual character of the defacement! These Christians ﬂattered
themselves that they had buried away for ever those old gods of Egypt,
and driven out the whole time-honored group, to make way fort air
saints. They thought the thing was done when they had put a yellow
halo over the lotus-glory; and the dove over the hawk; and St. Peter
with his keys of heaven over Phthah with his key of life; and angels
with their palm-branches over the Assessors of the dead with their fea<
that-symbols of Integrity: as the Puritans of modern times supposed
they had destroyed superstition by burning altar-pieces and stripping
cathedrals. But- such extinction, being no man’s business, is in no
man’s power. The mud plaster can be cleared away; and the old gods
reappear, serene and beautiful, and almost as venerable as ever to those
who can discern their ideal through their forms: and it may be that
their worship is as lively as ever in the hearts of those who regard them
(as their best worshipers always did regard them) as imperishable
ideas presented in forms congenial to their times. The Christian saints,
with their halos, keys, palms, and books, share the same privilege.
No narrow Puritan zeal can abolish them. In as far as they embody
spiritual truth, they must share the immortality of truthz—exactly so
far, and no farther. Meantime, we who have stood before the plastered
walls of Philce, and the ruins of Catholic churches, cannot escape the
admonition they convey ;--to accept the truth which comes to us with-
out dariug to interfere with what comes (as they believe) to others: to
enjoy our brightening dawn, without trying to at out the moon and
stars; which would not have existed, if they ha not been wanted by
some bein beyond our jurisdiction, and in some place beyond our ken.

l The 0 er 0 the ediﬁces at Philus may be shortly given, and I hope
c ear y.

Be 'nnin from the southern shore, where there was once a ﬂi ht of
steps rom t 8 water, and a quay, we ﬁnd ﬁrst, on the left west) and,
a sandstone pillar, whose fellow was brought to England by r. Bankes.
This latter is remarkable as hearing inscribed the petition of the priests
Page-146
144 ass-ram ms.

of Philu: to Ptolemy Physcon, entreating him to .lessen the concourse of
people of rank and strangers, who lived on the hospitality of the priests
while there. The answer of the king, including an order to the govem-
ment of the Thebai'd not to permit the priests to be thus encroached
upon. was painted on the same pedestal. From the remaining pillar a
colonnade extends, continuous on the west side. to the great propyla.
The thirty pillars of this western corridor are all unlike each other in
the sprouting of their capitals, while the outline is symmetrical enough
to avoid offence to the e e. All the vegetation represented is indige-
nous; the diﬂ'erent kin s of palms, water-plants, acacia. tobacco, Gcc.,
affording a suﬂicient variet . Some of the shafts bear hieroglyphic
inscri trons, and some are p sin. The intercolumnar screens, and the
walls hind the pillars, are covered with sculptures. As I have men-
tioned before, this colonnade is so curved as to prevent the landing-
lace and the portal of the propyla being seen from each other—a great
blemish in modern eyes. The eastern colonnade is unﬁnished, and the
part next the river is in ruins; amidst which ruins stands the little tem-
ple of Esculapius—of course a modern affair. Its Greek dedication
us the name of the ﬁfth Ptolemy. 0f the sixteen pillars standing of
the eastern colonnade, few have ﬁnished capitals, and their shafts and
the wall behind are plain. The avenue between the two rows of
columns is cruelly spoiled with the ruins of a mud village, among
which lie two headless sphinxes.

We now come to the great propylon, whose massive pyramidal tow-
ers are the ﬁrst object seen in coming up the river. These towers are
built upon and beside the ancient gateway of the time of the Pharaohs.
Champollion found the name of Nectanebo on this portal, and on a small
chapel dedicated to Athor, in the avenue. These are the only ancient
remains, the rest of the great old temple having been overthrown by the
Persians, who were scandalized at the idea of worship being carried on
anywhere but in the open air. The Ptolemies rebuilt the temple, pre-
serving the Egyptian style much more carefully than in most of their
ediﬁces. This old gateway looks very venerable, with its antique
winged globe on the cornice. A smaller entrance through the great pro-
pylon—a portal on the left (west) hand of the ancient one, leads to the
temple [ mentioned as appropriated to the welcome of Horus. This
temple is built separately, surrounded by pillars bearing the head of
Isis for their capitals, and merely joined on to the propyla at each ex-
tremity by a gateway.

This temple forming the western side of the area within the great
propylan, a row of chambers forms the eastern side. These chambers
are small—few of them sculptured—and their wall, looking upon the
area, rough and unﬁnished. The ten columns of its corridor answer
to the seven of the opposite temple of Horus—such is the want of sym-
metry herel

Passing through this area. and the gate of the inner and smaller pro-
pylon, we enter t e court of the ten celebrated colossal columns. These
columns are in pain as to their design, but not in their position! They
support the roo which covers half the court, the other half of which is
Page-147
ramm. . 145

open to the sky. The ceiling is still brightly colored, as are the
ten columns. They are completely covered with sculptures, which
shine in a variety of blues and reds, and the pale green which is so
beautiful everywhere. The walls here. and in all the succeeding
chambers, are completely covered with rich painted sculptures, whose
compartments are divided by borders which are not merely decorative,
hut emblematic also. To the uninitiated eye. these decorations are
what we commonly call Greek borders—with no more meaning than so
many strips of color. But to their beauty they add meanings such as
we never think of‘embodying in decoration, while we have the print-
ing-press and engraving to communicate our ideas by. Here every
morsel of decoration is a message or admonition. While by the princi-
ple of repetition (the value of which the Egyptians understood so well),
the best decorative effect is produced, every element employed speaks

1' its own meaning to the mind—or did to the minds of ancient visitors.

r Here we have the lotus—alternate bud and leaf stem (from which our
common iron palisading is copied)—and there the drooping cup; here
the ibis. and there the wild-duck and reeds; here the symbols of purity
and stability in alternation, and there those of life and power. These
borders run everywhere, and ﬁll up all spaces not required for more
special appeals to the worshiping mind.

To this court succeeds a corridor which leads round the corner of
the next chamber, toan entrance to some vaults. The entrance ‘is a
mere pit. and the gentlemen could not get far in the subterranean cham-
bers for want of light. Beyond the corridor lie two chambers, for once,
with doors answering to each other. Instead of one Holy Place, there
are two; an unusual circumstance, but not a singular one. We found
the same, and also two portals, at K6m Umboo, where the temple is
dedicated to two deities. The western adytum here is very dark, and
smaller than the other, and its walls are so plastered over with mud as
hardly to leave any indications of the devices. The eastern adytnm
was in much the same condition; but some happy cleaninghas laid
open a beautiful group, of Osiris, and Isis nursing Horus, with an
attendant behind. The faces of mother and child arerfresh and pleas-
in . , -

gI‘his account will give some idea of the arrangement of ' the great
temple of Isis at Philna. l have said nothing of several lateral cham-
bers, and erections on the roof, which have no immediate. connection
with the general plan. I went wherever it was possible to go—on the
roof and to the top of both propyla—so that the confusion I had felt so
painfully before, disappeared under the study from the heights of the
ediﬁce.

As for the external buildings,—-there is a little temple on the western
bank ﬁlled with the pictured {eats and honors of the god Nilus, who is
there for ever at his favorite work of binding up his water plants.—
0n the eastern side, there was once a ﬁne portal of approach which is
now ﬁlled up nearly to the capitals of its columns, and built up between
those capitals, and thus made into a wretched Arab hovel. As it was
empty, and had sculptures, and the capitals were beautiful, I went in,

10 .
Page-148
148 _ amass! Lin.

and was presently surprised by darkness. A man, woman and boy
had blocked up the entrance by sitting‘ down outside on the mud heap
which nearly occupied the space. hey demanded baksheesh in a
very different tone from that which they would have emp10yed if our
dragoman or the gentlemen had been in view. The woman slipped
in. and laid hold of me.trying to wrench my gold pencil-case out of my
hand, while the man and boy spread themse ves so as still to cover the
entrance. Ilrnew, however, at what peril anybody in E pt robs a .
stranger, and that I was perfectly safe. I gave these peop e nothing.
and got away safe by insisting on a passage over the mud heap. As I
emerged. the trio ran away, and I saw no more of them.

I found my party preparing to lunch on the terrace of the temple
called Pharaoh’s Bed. This temple was built with a view to its aspect
from the river; and truly. the Ptolemies and Caesars have given a ﬁne
object to voyagers who gaze up at Philtn. We‘who live in an English
climate can hardly reconcile our unaccustomed taste to a hyptethral
building anywhere; the only building of that kind that we have at
home being the village Pound; and walls without roof not answering
to our idea of an ediﬁce at all. But I felt here, and at night. how
strong is the temptation to abstain from rooﬁng public buildings, when.
above the canopy of the clear air, there are the circling stars to light
them. When I saw this temple roofed with Orion and Aldebaran, I
could ask for nothing better.

I went three times round the whole outside of the temples. so as to
obtain some permanent impression of the immense array of gods. of-
ferers. cartouches and legends.—I saw here. for the ﬁrst time. a front
face among the sculptures ;—a proof of their not being ancient. It was
the middle face in more than one group of captives. whom the cou-
queror was holding by the hair. preparatory to cutting off their heads.

On a plain space of wall is inscribed the Latitude and Longitude of
Philrs, as ascertained by the French Commissioners whose names are
appended. The same service is much wanted higher up the river.—
There are inscriptions in diﬂ'erent parts of the temple recording the
visits of the expedition sent here by Gregory XV[., and of the French
republican army under Dessaix in 1799.

At last. it was time to go;--absolutely necessary to go: for the boat
was waiting which was to take us to Mahatta. We returned again
and again to veril' points on which we were not. on first comparing
notes. fully agre : but this lingering must come to an end. We
could yet see Philce for some time: and how different it looked now
when we understood every angle and every recess! At last we rounded
the point which intervenes between Philm and Mahatta; and we saw
the Holy Island no more. " By Him who sleeps in Philm." I vowed
never to rt with its image from my interior picture-gallery.

At Ma no we found asses awaiting us, in the care of two of our
crew who had remained with the Dahabich. Of these, the Buck was
one; and his glee at seein us again was uncontrollable. He shook
hands with us all at great length; and kept up a most vigorous panto-
mime all the way to Aswan. He had dressed himself as splendidly as
Page-149
lax ousoo. 147

was in his power. Where his blue shirt had been cut to strips by re-
peated ﬂoggings. he had inserted a large square white patch. He

wore prodigious yellow slippers, and a clean white turban: and he had
dyed his nails with henne .

We enjoyed our ride through the Desert to Aswan, and our re-en-
trance there upon the comforts of our spacious dahahieh. We had
visitors to receive, and visits to make. this evening; and on the middle

of the next day (January 14th) we set 03' down the river,—with our
heads full of Thebes.

CHAPTER XIII.

KOM UMmO.—QUARRIES OF SILSILEH.—ADFOO.—EILETHYIA.—OLD
EGYPTIAN LIFE.—ISNA.—-ARMENT.

Four. days and several temples lay, however. between us and Thebes.
I will hasten over these temples, observin only their distin uishin
characteristics; for I am aware that there is aﬁ the diﬂ'erence in t e worl
between painfully putting together in the imagination the details of a
written description of such objects, and callin up without effort that
bright and solemn ima e of these marvelous o d monuments which re-
mains in the minds of t ose who have visited them.

We arrived oi? KOm Umboo at ten at ni ht of the day we left Aswan:
and early in the mornin we were up at t e temples.

The principal temple ere was rebuilt by the Ptolemies on the site of
an ancient one bearing the date of the Pharaohs of an early part of the
Third Period. The only piece of this great antiquity remaining is a
gateway dedicated to Savak, the Lord of Umboo. The lar er temple
is dedicated to him and to Aroeris. the brother of Osiris: an there are
two entrances, each with the winged globe on its cornice; and there
were two adyta, side by side. They are buried and lost; but the cor-
nices of their portals are just visible above the sand. This son of Time,
Aroeris. is the god of Light; and his colleague Savak isa local deity of
the Sun. bearing rule over this southern region, but hated by the for-
mer inhabitants of the next region to the north, who waged a savage
war with his worshipers. on account of him;—in much the same spirit
apparently as the Catholics of our middle ages with the Mohammedans.
or the Puritans of our later age with the Catholics: that is, with the
passion which seems peculiarly to belong to a faith too intense for its
comprehensiveness. No wars are so cruel as wars for religion: and
this warfare appears to be the only one in old E pt in which the
combatants are char d (whether falsely or not) with aving eaten their
enemies. The haw and the crocodile are the symbols of Aroeris and
Savak: and they are found in companionship in every part of the sculp-
tures of this temple. The thick grove of columns here has a very im-
posing eﬁ‘ect; and the mass of overthrown blocks makes one doubt
Page-150
148 auras: urn.

whether any force short of an earthquake could have been the destruc-
tive agent here.

One curious architectural device of the Egyptians, which we found
almost everywhere by looking for it, is here apparent at a glance. when
one stands on the toircuit wall which incloses the whole group of
ediﬁces ;——their p n of regularly diminishing the size of the inner
chambers, so as to give from the entrance, an appearance of a longer
perspective than exists. They evidently like an ascending ground,
the ascent of which was disguised as much as possible by the use of
extremely shallow steps. The roof was made to descend in a greater
degree. the descent being concealed inside by the large cornices and
deep architraves they employed. The sides were made to draw in;
and thus the Holy Place was always small; while to those who looked
towards it from the outer chambers, (and it was entered by the priests
alone.) it appeared not small, but distant. I had observed this in some of
the Nubian temples, when looking at them sideways from a distance;
but here it was particularly evident; the roof descending in deep
steps from the portico to the pronaos; from the naos to the corridors;
and from the corridors to the adyta; which last were level with the
sand.

When I was in the portico, looking up at the architraves, I saw into
another ancient secret, which I should have been sorry to have over-
looked. Some of the paintings were half-ﬁnished; and their ground
was still covered with the intersecting red lines by which the artists se-
cured their proportions. These guiding lines were meantto have been
reduced as soon as the outlines were completed ; yet here they are at
the end of. at least, two thousand years! No hand, however light, has
touched them. through all the intervening generations of men :—no
rains have washed them out, during all the changing seasons that have

over them :—no damp has moulded them: no curiosity has
meddled with them. It is as if the artist had lain down for his siesta,
with his tools beside his hand, and would be up presently to resume
his work: yet that artist has been a mummy, lying somewhere in the
heart of the neighboring hills, ever since the time when our island
was bristling with forests, and its inhabitants were dressed in skins,
and dyed their bodies blue with weed, to look terrible in battle. In
another part of this temple. the stone is diced in small squares to re-
ceive the hieroglyphic ﬁgures.

The other temple was built on an artiﬁcial platform, and must have
looked nobly from the river. as indeed its remains still do by moonlight.
I found among the strewn fragments one capital, and only one, bearing
the head of Athor,—the last relic perhaps of a colonnade which here
crowned the precipitous bank. My journal records that we were much
impressed by these ruins.—the size of the parts, and the extraordinary
character of their wreck. The wading among blocks of sculptured
stone, having the eye caught incessantly by some exquisite device or
gay hit of painting. is a strange experience. So far from becoming
aired of temple-haunting, we found the eagerness grow from day to

ay.
Page-151
mm. 149

In the afternoon, we plunged hack into the times of the old Pharaohs,
—into the early centuries of the Third Period. We went over the
quarries at Silsileh, and saw excavations which might almost make us
think that the whole human race had come here for building material,
from the founding of Babel to the arrival of the lazy Arabs. On the
east side I wandered long and far among lanes and areas in the rock,
where the sides spring up like the walls of a mine, or retire in sharp cut
gradation. to a mountainous height. All the variety I came upon in this
silent wilderness of cut stone, was the tracks of a hyrena in the sand,
and the marks in the rock of the tools of three or four thousand years

Some of these marks were evidently for the purpose of trying
tools. These marks remain; but we long in vain to know what the
tools were like. Others seem to have been made in sport; perhaps in
illustration of some story the workmen were telling and listening to,
while eating their lentil pottage. On the western bank we found much
more ;— ottoes, pillars, tablets, niches, statues, sculptures and paint-
ings,—al of very ancient date. We have the conquering Pharaoh-—
Horus, successor of Amunoph II[., overriding the Ethiopians, receivin ,
the captives, whose arms are tied in all manner of wa sg—some wit
the elbows above their heads ;—-and holding groups 0 the foe the
hair, threatening «to cut oﬂ‘ their heads. We see him home in a s rine
on men's shoulders, with ﬁles of soldiers in attendance, and the lion
pacing along beside the royal chariot. In another place we have the
must solemn representation those old artists knew how to offer ;—the
kin receiving the symbol of Life from the Supreme god.

e historian revels among such memorials as these. The invari-
able practice here of sculpturing the names and titles of the kings, and
often of their chief ofﬁcers; and the descriptions of the people con-
quered; and the names of oEerers as well as gods, make research here
a self-rewarding eﬂ'ort, very unlike the painful and uncertain specula-
tion which is all that can be attempted among the antiquities of more
modern countries. To the historian, such places as these are a glo-
rious ﬁeld: but they are not less interesting to the moralist or the poet.
What a proof it is of the sanctity of the work of temple-building that the
very quarries were consecrated to the gods! Truly,they were a religious
people, these old Egyptians :-—receiving their children as from the gods;
bringing their children to the temples in bands to make offerings; in-
voking the Judge of the dead at their banquets; presenting their con-
quests as sacriﬁce to the heavenly powers; and consecrating their work
of temple-building by ﬁrst making the very rocks holy which were to
furnish the material. There is a great congregation of gods here, re-
ceiving oﬂ'erings from several Pharaohs. Savak is the local deity:
and the god Nilus holds a higher rank than usual: some think because
the river here narrows between the rocks, and runs with a strong cur-
rent: and others because much of the stone out here for distant works.
was committed to the char e of Nilus for transport. The tablets bear
some inscriptions of great istorical value; and particularly a record of
Assemblies held in various years of the reign of the Great Ramases.
What these Assemblies were, in their object and details, perhaps some
Page-152
150 lAl'l'Ill amt.

future decipherer of Egyptian records will tell us. At present we
know only that they were held in the great halls of the temples. and
were considered of the utmostimportance; so that the title of President
of the Assemblies was one of the highest di ity. offered to the king
alone on earth, and supposed to be enjoyed y the gods in their own
re ‘ons.'
e set oﬂ' alter breakfast. on the morning of the 16th, to see the
t Adfoo temple. walking about a mile through millet patches, stub-
le and dust. From our deck we had seen what looked like clouds of
smoke rising from the town. and partly obscuring the great propyla.
When we reached the ediﬁce this appearance was explained in a way
which pleased as very much. The people were carrying off the dust
from the area of the temple, to qualif the rich mud of the shore; and
donkeys were passing in and out an er the entrance gate. Men were
loading their asses within the area; and we found the place wonder-
fully improved since our former visit. We could still handle the capi-
tals of the tallest columns by walking on the sand between them; but
the western colnnnade and area wall were cleared almost to their bases.
The external sculptures of the propylon indicate, however, that much
remains to be done; for the captive grou s. whose heads the victor is
threatening. hardly show their noses a ve ground. The process
which was going forward of course covered as with dust; but we re-
joiced in it. for the sake of the good done; if only the Arabs do not
ﬁll the court with something worse than even this dust—with such
mud hovels as are stuck all over the roofs. and ruin the outline of this
magniﬁcent temple. The dust was of the less consequence to some of
us that we were destined to be at all events half-choked. The temple
chambers can be reached only by going down a hole like the entrance
to a coal-cellar. and crawling about like crocodiles. on the sand within,
there being barely room, in some places. to squeeze one’s prostrate
body between the dust and the roof. with a huge capital of a pillar on
either hand. The having to carry li hts. under penalty of one‘s own
extinction in the noisome air and dar ness if they go out. much oom-
plicates the difﬁculty; so that a proper visit to the interior of the Adl'oo
temple is really something of an adventure. I could not. under the
circumstances. trace out the disposition of the buildin ; but live gen-
tlemen, the dragoman and I, penetrated a considerabe way—as far.
indeed, as it was possible to go; traversing, it seemed to me. three
chambers. and ending in one which. from its oblong form, 1 should have
supposed to be a corridor; but which. havin apparently but one door.
must, in that case, have been the adytum. he sculptures were clear
and clean : but the place was too stiﬂing, with half-a-dozen people and
tallow candles in it. and no fresh air for many years. to admit of more
than a rapid survey. The sculptures exhibited oﬂ'erings to the gods:
the offerers being Ptolemies. The temples at Adfoo were both erected
by successive monarchs of that race; and the interest of this magniﬁ-
cent ediﬁce is, therefore. rather owing to its being. from its durability,

' Wilkinson's Ancient Egyptians, V. 288.
Page-153
norm—Imam. 161

a model to as of the plan and structureof an Egyptian temple, and to.
the richness of its architecture and sculpture, than to any charm of an-
tiquity.

Its extent and massive character are best perceived from the top of
the propylon. For the beauty of the view beyond, too. every traveler
should go there. The mass of temple buildings below is a ﬁne centre
for such a landscape. About this centre is gathered the poor town,
whose ﬁelds spread to the river. Almost the whole wide circuit with-
in the blue mountains, or yellow limestone hills on the horizon, is one
bri ht green level. The only interruptions are from the winding river,
and some pools among the western ﬁelds; poolsat present, but canal
at the time of the subsidence of the Nile. '

As the morning was shady and cool, we returned on foot to the boat,
where we shook off our dust, and wrote our journals, in preparation
for new enterprises. The winds were now less cold and strong than
within the tropics; but we had frequent cloudy skies—as to-day, fora
short time. Towards evening, the sky cleared to the west; and the
shore at El Kab, where we were mooring, was gorgeously lighted .up
by a pa'rting gleam. A strange-looking wall tempted us ashore; and
we found that this circuit-wall of the vanished city of Eilethyia, whose
tombs we were to see to-morrow. was in fact a substantial fortiﬁcation,
containing a hollow-way between two stout masses of crude brick.
This wall enclosed an area large enough for an extensive city; and a
level stretches behind, from the wall to the mountains, which might. in
the days of the prosperous old tillage, when Egypt was the granary of
the world, easily support the population of the district.

The morning of the l7th was charming; most favorable for our ride
to the tombs in the Desert. Our asses were of the smallest; so small
that the gentlemen could help them on by using a walking-stick as
they rode. I never before saw such a variety in the size and strength
of animals of the same race, in near neighborhood. To-day it was
like riding a dog—and in two days more, at Thebes, we were mounted
on donkeys almost as large and strong as mules.

The arid plain that we rode over had drifts of stones which seemed
to show that vehement torrents sometimes sweep down here from the
hills. The recesses of the Desert are very striking—so utterly still
and dreary, with nothing but the blue shadows coming and going, from
century to century. Here and there we passed to-day shallow pools of
salt water; and there were crusts of natron on the soil.

We visited a very small and very ancient temple, about three miles
from the river; and two less antique, nearer the old town. But temples
must be imposing indeed to obtain much attention here, where we come
upon some old tombs forthe ﬁrst time. In the temples we have the
worship and the wars of the old Egyptians. In some of the tombs, we
have their thoughts of death, judgment and retribution: but in many
we have their daily life, their occupations. their festivals and their
mirth; and these are interesting beyond description.

The tombs at Eilethyia are grottoes in the rock: vaulted, and with
ceilings elaborately painted. Some have a pit before the entrance;
Page-154
152 nuns ran.

some have pits within ; and others communicate with holes or low-roofed
caverns where the dead might be deposited. The date is known by the
names of several kings being inscribed in the most easterly tomb; those
kings being of the beginning of the Third Period, immediately after the
expulsion of the Shepherds.

The moment of entering these tombs is that of a sudden withdraw-
ing of the clouds which overhang those far distant ages. Hitherto,
we have learned something of their devotional conceptions and feelings;
something of their philosophy; and much of their arts of war and of
building; but thus far we have learned nothing of the everyday life of
common people, except that the oﬂ'erings in the temples prove what
they had to eat, drink, wear and use. Now, however, on entering
these and other tombs, the dimness that overhangs the Nile valley clears
away, and we see the people at work in the ﬁelds. and busy on the
river, and merr in their houses. It is no dream,—no transient vision,
—with clouds riving up to hide it from us again. It is steady before
our eyes. and we can take our time in studying it. We can note every
article of dress; every instrument of music: and the very dishes pre-
paring for dinner. How wonderful it is l And what a fortunate thing
for us that it was the custom in Egypt for the owner of a tomb to paint
it all over with pictures of his life, its possessions, its interests and its
deeds !—Now let us see what this family are doing ;-master, mistress.
children and servants.

This is a rich man. With us. he would be a very rich man: and
his possessions are such as would make him wealthy In any part of the
world. The ﬁrst we see of him is in the ﬁeld where his laborers are
ploughing and sowing: that is, his chariot is in the ﬁeld: 'so he is no
doubt overlooking his people. The inundation has of course subsided :
and it appears that his land does not lie very low. If it did. he would
hardly be setting his people to plough, but merely to sprinkle the seed
on the slime ;—to cast his bread upon the waters, that he might ﬁnd it
again, after many days. This plough, however, is a very simple affair;
and not wanted to go very deep. A mere scratching of the surface is
enough, in such a soil as this. If any stilf clods turn up, they are
broken with the hoe: but that does not seem to be the case here; for
the sewer follows the ploughman pretty closely. Herodotus thought
the Egyptians very enviable in his day for the ease with which their
husbandry was managed. There were no people in the world, he says,
who obtained their corn with less labor and pains. “ They are not
obliged to make toilsome furrows with the plough. to break the clods.
and to give to their ﬁelds the cares which the rest of men bestow ; but
when the river has of its own accord watered their lands, and the waters
have retired. then every one lets in his hogs. and afterwards sows his
ﬁeld. When the sowing is done,the oxen are driven upon the ground;
and after these animals have buried the grain by trampling it in. there
is only to await quietly the time of harvest." There is nothing said
here of the subsequent irrigation which is quite as toilsome a process

' Herod. II. 14.

4____-_m£l-HAIILI’
Page-155
mum“. 153

as any ploughing in Greece could ever have been. What a waste of
seed this sower is making,—unless that cataract of seed is a ﬂourish of
the artists! He seems to throw more from his hand than any hand can
hold4—or even the basket from which he takes his supply. If it has
been “ a od Nile" this year, here will be com for export, after every
one is we I fed at home.—Ah! we shall soon see that: for here, in the
second line of paintings, we are carried on to the harvest. The crops
seem certainly very vigorous. This tallest growth is millet, of course:
the next, barley: the shortest, wheat. They cut the wheat-ears of
short with a sickle very like ours: but they pull up the millet by the
roots. There is a woman uprooting it now. Probably they use the
stalks for fencing, thatchin , or bedding the cattle, as the country people
do at this day. What is t at man doing with the roots of the plucked
millet! Is he knocking off the earth from them! That is a neat sheaf
that his comrade is tying: and the man who is carrying another seems
to ﬁnd it large and heavy, as indeed it looks. That instrument, with
teeth like a comb, seems to work cleverly in stripping off the grain from
the stalk—It is only the millet that is so treated ; for here, in the third
line, is the threshing-ﬂoor, with the oxen treading out the wheat. The
driver is singing; and here is actually his song. written up beside his
picture :—* ‘
“ Thresh for yourselves, 0 oxenl Thresh for yourselves.
Thresh for yourselves, O oxen! Thresh for yourselves.

Measures for yourselves! Measures for your masters.
Measures for yourselves! Measures for your masters."

This is the song this driver was singing while Moses was a child.—
The wheat is swept up, and delivered to the winnowers; who are
making showers in the air with the fallin wheat. And here it is
carried to the place where the scribe is rea y to see it measured and
deposited in the granary.

These scribes look like very stiﬂ' writers. How formally they hold
the tablet, supporting the left arm on the bent knee! and how hard they
seem to be hearing on the style. as if it were steel, and they were en-
graving! But this is only a bit of energy put in by the artist; for the
style was only a reed pen ; and it made its marks with colored inks.—
But here are several scribes, taking account of manythings besides the
grain which is brought home. These bags that they are causing to be
weighed before them, are money bags. his must be a very rich man.
Here are gold rings too ;—-the ancient form of currency.——Aud here is
the live stock: cattle, asses, pigs, goats: what an array !—And the
gentleman was a sportsman too, I suppose; or, at least, chose to have
his table well supplied; for here are game, and geese, and ﬁsh. Pro-
bably, the Nile left him plenty of ﬁsh within his embankments, when
the waters retired: or he might keep ﬁsh-ponds stocked; as it appears
some people did. The old Egyptians must have been very fond of
fowling. judging by the number and variety of nets. and the multitude
of ﬂuttering birds which we see among the domestic pictures—Ah!

' Champollion. Lettres sur l‘Egypte, 11th and 12th letters.
Page-156
164 um“ urn.

these people have taken more ﬁsh and geese than they want at present;
and here we see them salting them. From what we saw ourselves just
now, there must have been a good deal of salt produced in the neigh-
borhood: and if not enough for everybody, more was brought down
the river by the traders from Ethiopia, where we know salt was brought
from the east for sale.

Here is a wine-press :—-no wonder! for we are coming presently to
the picture of a banquet. We know that the kings and the priests
were much restricted in the use of wine : but the sculptures and paint-
in show that there was much wine-bibbing among gentlemen and
la ies generally. Every landed proprietor seems to have had his wine-
press; as far asthis kind of evidence goes: and the sick and tipsy

cats at banquets are really a scandal to those old times. By the way,
t use who had wine~presses must have had lands extending backwards to
the skirts of the hills; for vines will not grow in the rich Nile mud nor
bear being laid under water for months at a time. The great valley must
have been skirted with vineyards in those old times. Besides all that they
grew, we know that they imported wine largely, as soon as they could
get it. One way and another,—as medicine, or with their food, or at
their ban nets, they certainly disposed of a great deal. And here are
a group 0 servants, treading the grapes very energetically.

What a splendid affair this boat is, with its hand of rowers, and its
pavilion, with door and two windows ;— uite a house l—and the gay
sail. all checkered with bri ht colors! ow well these people wove
and dyed in those days! his sail is bulging. as if in a strong wind,
which implies that it is stout as well as guy. What is this wheel. on
the roof of the pavilion, and under the corner of the sail? For a long
time I believed that this was part of the tackle; and I made a drawing
of it for future inquiry. From Sir G. Wilkinson I learn* that I did
not use my eyes well, or I might have seen that this is the wheel of a
chariot, which is placed there for conveyance. I might have disco-
vered this by the horses. whose heads appear in my sketch. in front of
the pavilion. This other boat. rowing the contrary way, makes all
clear. Here the sail and mast are down; and the chariot on the roof
is unmistakeable; besides that the horses stand on the deck. The
rudder is in shape an enormous paddle,swung on a pivot by a little man
standing at the stern. How eager the pilot looks, making gestures
from his place at the bow! These capacious and handsome bouts,—
vessels of a higher order than such as are represented among the chat-
tels of ordinary landed proprietors.—make me hope that this is indeed
the tomb of the old Egyptian admiral, which Champollion studied so
successfully at Eliethyia. His tablet tells that he was “Chef des nau-
tonniers" in the reign of Thothmes I.; that he served in the earlier
time of Amosis, and did battle to great purpose while he commanded
on the water: and also that he was himself named AmosisJ If this
be indeed Amosis. he returned from his exploits on the water to a life
of great plenty and some merriment on the shore.

' Wilkinson's Ancient Egyptians, Ill. 197. 1‘ Lettres sur I'Egypte.
Page-157
min. 155

Some merriment: for here is a grand ban net. The provision is va-
rious: quarters of beef, cakes, fruits. wine asks, &c. And in the re-
ception room, how decorous is everything l—at least, before dinner!
Here are the host and hostess, in a handsome chair, looking towards
their guests, who are ranged in front, the gentlemen in one ﬁle; the
ladies in another. Every lady is smelling at a large water-lily with
all her might. To the host’s chair a monkey is tied. Perhaps Amosis
brought it home after one of his voyages up tothe'south. There is a row
of musicians, playing on the harp and the double-pipe. and some clap-
ping; by way of a little amusement before dinner.

But to all things there comes an end. We see here the day (how
far back in the depths of time!) when these merry feasts were all over,
—the lilies dead,—-the music hushed,—the last of this man’s harvests
stored.—-the last trip enjoyed by boat or chariot. The ﬁsh need no
more fear him in their pools, nor the fowl amon the reeds. Here he
is lying under the hands of the embalmers; an next we see him in
mummy form on the bier, in the consecrated boat which was to carry
him over the dark river, and land him at the tes of the heavenly
abode where the Spirits of the dead, and the Judge Osiris were await-.
ing him. to try his deeds, and pronounce his sentence for eternal good
or ill. Here are the life and death of a man who lived so long ago
that at the ﬁrst mention of him, we think of him as one having no
kindred with us. But how like ours were his life and death! Com-
pare him .with a retired naval ofﬁcer made country gentleman in our
day. and in how much less do they differ than agree!

I was sorry to see carved,—actually cut,—among the sculptures of
the easternmost tomb at Eilethyia. among the intrusions of many who
knew no better. such names as these of Irby and Mangles, Belzoni,
and Madden. If visitors must leave their names, why not do it on the
rough rock by the entrance? Can there ever come a day, however far
off, when it will not be a sin for strangers to carve their names all over
the statuary in Westminster Abbey?

In the afternoon. between Eilethyia and Isna. we passed ﬁve boats
with European ﬂags ;-—one of which was Russian, and the rest English.
The Russian countess was an English woman, moreover. I could not
but hope that these travelers would not pronounce decisively on the
scenery of Egypt, as observed from their boats; for they were too late
in the season to see much without the effort of going often ashore.
The river had sunk so much that we hardly recognized some districts.
whose aspect appeared totally altered from what it was a few weeks
before. We had missed the birds, while we were up in Nubia. We
never saw again such myriads as ﬁlled the depths of the heavens when
we set out on our voyage: but now we began to note large ﬂights of
them. increasing daily as we drew near the plain of Thebes.

I think I had better say little of Isna, whose temple is so universally
praised that every one knows all about it. Those have heard of it who are
ignorant of almost everything else about Egypt. If it were ancient,
I could not refrain from giving my impressions of it: but the only relic
of the old ediﬁce supposed to exist is a small red door jamb, bearing
Page-158
156 nae-ran: mu.

date in the time of Thothtnes 1.. mentioned by Champollion. The
portico beats the names of the Caesars: and. however greatly the world
is obliged to them for erecting a very majestic and elegant temple. we
are not aided by it in our researches into the affairs of the old Egyp«
tians. The Pasha, as is known. cleared out the portico to the very
hues of the columns: and a noble hall it now is. The amount of ac-
cumulation is shown by the height of the dust-hill we had to descend.
from the alley in front of the temple. Our Rois shut out the children
who came swarming after us, as usual ; so that. for once. we explored
a tem le at our ease. in coolness and freedom. and without being asked
for be sheesh.

If I were to enlarge on anything in regard to this temple, it would
be the amount of inscriptions. But it is indescribable,—uuremember-
able,—incredible anywhere but on the spot. I have already said all
that language can say on this point: and I will leave it.

There is a Zodiac here, as every one knows: not ancient. No Zo-
diac in Egypt is ancient; but one or two oﬂ'er Egyptian symbols which
it is interesting to noticez—the Scarabeaus for the Crab: the double-
headed Sphinx for the Twins: a truly Egyptian compound of an ani-
mal for the Seagoat: and a Man with the oriental waterskinr—the
Goat or Kid-skin-on his shoulder, for Aquarius.

I saw here ﬁrst the Serpents, human-headed and human-legged, of
which we soon met so much more primitive and satisfactory a represen-
tation at Thebes. These Serpents and many other nondescripts abound
in this temple; so that it looks like an illustration of much of the book
of Revelations.—Here. for the ﬁrst time. I saw the lorious Egyptian
symbol of the Heavens ;—the Long Arms of the god ess Pe encircling
a whole compartment of the vast ceiling.

This 18th of January was remarkable for bringing us again among
the dwellings and resorts of a town population. after our retirement
and dreamings in the still southern re ions. We visited the Pasha’s
palace. (bringing away some splendid jessamine from his garden.)
and his cotton factory; and his chained prisoners in the guard-house.
All wore chains, which glittered in the sum—for they were new and
bright: and of these, seven had a collar round their necks, and their
hands conﬁned in a sort of stocks.—much more clumsy than any hand-
cuﬂ's. These seven were doomed to death;—desperadoes who would
be hanged or shot if the Pasha did not reverse their sentence—of which
there seemed to be no expectation. They were as lively as the busy
passengers in the streets, and cried “baksheesh” as vigorously as any
idler in the place. The other prisoners were, we were told, thieves and
deserters.

Our stay at Isna for so many hours was for the sake of the crew;
that they might bake their bread. This was done before evening; and
we proceeded. in order to reach the temple at Arment (the Greek Her-
monthis) by the morning. It was a glorious evening; and, after watch-
ing the young moon going down just after the sun, there were still
some things to be seen on the western bank. Whatever was on the
ridge showed black against the orange sky ;—a pacing camel; a string
Page-159
m Rial—mam. 157

of asses; some children at play, and two or three men at prayers. As
they faced the east, every gesture of prostration was seen, and every
ﬂow of their majestic garments.—In my childhood, I used to wonder
why Pharaoh's kine came up out of the water: but now, and often be-
sides, I saw how truly Egyptian this dream was. The cattle often cross
the Nile by swimming,—sometimes resting on a shoal in the middle of
the river. This evening, a noble buffalo kept us in a state of interest
for half an hour by his incessant-efforts to land, and the difﬁcult he
had in doing so. Again and again, he put off, swimming slowly a at
with only his head above water; and then he would stru gle in the
tenacious mud, and seem to have obtained a footing; and slipgbaclt again,
and disappear in the shadow of the bank. Then he would come out
again into the light; the failing light, which was almost gone before he
was safe. We saw the last shine of it on his sides as he paced slowly
u to the ridge, evidently trembling and exhausted. All things in
Egypt seem to cross their great highway with as little concern as we do
ours. As we walk across a read, they pass through the Nile. Whole
droves of cattle, and sometimes asses and sheep; and children, when-
ever the fancy takes them; and men, with a. bundle of millet-stalks
under them, or with a. log to lean their breasts against; their clothes,
or their burden of produce, on their heads. We never witnessed any
sign of fear of crocodiles, or heard of any disasters by them, as far as I
remember.

At five in the morning. we were at the nearest point to the Arment
temple; and I walked the mile and half which lay between the shore
and it with great pleasure, having grass to tread on for the ﬁrst time
for several weeks. There was an air of civilization about the village
which was rather unusual,-—the fences being neatly built of millet-
stalks, tall and thick, and the place supplied with water from a well-
kept pond, fed by a channel from the river. Immediately beyond the
village. we entered the Desert, which was all undulatin with mounds
of broken pottery and other rubbish. The quantity of roken pottery
about these places remained a mystery to us to the last. In a hollow
among these mounds lie the ruins of the Christian Church, which was
itself built. it is thought, from the materials afforded by the larger tem-
ple of Hermonthis. These ruins consist of some portions of wall, very
massive from the size of the blocks; much strewn stone. and a con-
siderable number of prostrate columns. of red granite. A little further
on stand the remaining pillars of Cleopatra's temple; eight altogether,
in the area and portico. The remains are miserably obstructed and
deformed by the mud artition and huts which have taken shelter
under the sculptured wa Is and painted roofs of the temple: but one is
less concerned about it here than in almost any other case; for the
ediﬁce is. as I said, of no older time than Cleopatra’s. The witch-
queen still interests us enough to make us run after every memorial of
her. The many who know her onl through Shakspeare hunt for her
portrait-ﬁgure at Philoe before they 001: for Osiris and Isis: and they
come here to see the hundred representations of her, sitting with the
little Cum-ion on her knees,—(in honor of whose birth this temple was
Page-160
158 smart urn.

built,)—or presenting the child to the . Nothing can be more dis—
tinct than the features of the queen, w en seen in the full light, on the
outer walls; and they are no doubt to be taken as a portrait. as tho
ediﬁce was her own work. The face is very charming; the features
small, and not at all after the Greek type; and the expression girlish
and simple.—like that of the ancient [sis and Athor. We obtain here
an impression something like that which we derive from the pictures
of Mary Queen of Scots: a conviction of the general raemblance, with
no recognition of such extraordinary beaut as we read of, but a sense
that the charm might be all that we are tol when the soul was at work
among those features.

“’e see how the little Caesarion is committed to the guardianship,
even to the nursing of the od of HermonthiHhe Amun Ra of Thebes
here presented under the arm of the ball Bash, or Basis—which has
characteristics distinguishing it at once to the eye from the bull Apia.
In one place we see the bull suckling—that is sustaining—the child;
and over the principal gate there is a sculpture of the bull hearing
Casarion between his horns, while a decorative margin is formed by
four copies in small of the same group of Cleopatra with the child on_
her knees. There is a profusion of ornament throughout the building,
but it is of a low style of art—about. however, to give place to a lower
—for this is, of course, the last work of the Ptolemies, who now gave
place to the Romans.

 

0
CHAPTER XIV.

THEBES.—EUROPEAN TRAVELERS AND NATIVE ARABS.—T'HE PAIR.
—THE RAMASEUM—mrKURNEH.

A1- last we were at Thebes—in the afternoon of this Tuesday, the
19th of January. We were very happy, for there was no hurry. On
either hand lay the plain of Thebes, and before us there was leisure to
explore it. We stayed eight days—giving ﬁve to the western bank and
three to the eastern. We made, we thought. good use of our time. ex-
ploring daily as much as we could without plunging ourselves into too
much fatigue and excitement. What the excitement is can be known
only to those who have spent successive days in penetrating the recesses
of the palaces, and burying themselves in the tombs of the Pharaohs,
who lived among the hundred gates of this metropolis of the world be-
fore the Hebrew infant was laid among the nests of the Nile water-fowl.
Perhaps some hint of what the interest of Thebes is, may be derived
from such poor account as 1 am able to give of what we saw there; but
I shall tell only what we saw, and nothing of what we felt. That can
be spoken of nowhere but on the spot.

This ﬁrst evening we attempted nothing beyond a little stroll on the
shore at sunset. The ﬁrst thing we saw was a throng of boats—ﬁve
English ﬂags and one Russian. Some were just departing, and other:
Page-161
Talus. 159

went the next day. Thebes is the last place in the world where one
wishes for society; so I dare say every party of the whole throng was
longing to see all the rest sail away. In the end we enjoyed as much
quietness as we could expect, and suffered no real interruption in our
expeditions. After the exchan e of sundry greetings with our neigh-
bors, the gentlemen and I we ked up to the ruins of the El-Uksur
temple, and in and out, and round about, till we arrived at some under-
standing of their arrangement and object. We now found how much
we had gained by practice in looking at temples. This was hardly
like the same group of ruins we had visited a few weeks before. By
the training of the eye in the intermediate time, we saw new beauty in
the proportions—and especially of the obelisk—new spirit in the scalp-
tures, and ahigher and fresher glory in the colonnades. We were not
less but more impressed by the ma itude of the scale of the architec-
ture, and far more impressihle by a l its other features.

When the moon came up, it was time to be returning to our boat, but
as we were turning the corner of the ruins. a man accosted us, with an
air of invitation, courteously pointing out a long ﬂight of steps, and say-
ing apparently (but we had no interpreter with us) something about a
castle. Mr. E. told me this was, no doubt, the guard-house. and we
agreed to go and see it. Instead of governor, garrison, or chained pri-
soners, however. we found an elderly gentleman on his deewin, enjoy-
ing his chibouque. He addressed as in French, ordered coffee and
pipes, oﬂ‘ered now some information about the ruins, and next his guid-
ance among them durin our stay at Thebes. When he permitted us
to depart. at the end of half an hour. Mr. E. said to me. “Well. now,
who is this that we have been seeing?” “Nay,” said I, “ that is what
I thought you were going to tell me." He was certainly no ofﬁcial
persona e, and certainly he was a European. He proved to be the
Signor astellare whom we had heard of as having settled himself at
Thebes, to discover antiquities, and explain them to those who have
faith in his interpretation, and to sell specimens to such as have
money enou h to pay his very high prices for them. It is only by
connivance t at he does these things, for the Pasha’s pleasure is that
none of the antiquities shall leave the country. And the ccnnivance is
not likely to last long, for the people of the place naturally dislike that
a stranger should take out of their hands the traﬁc with visitors, which
they ﬁnd much more proﬁtable than their inevitable sales to the Signor.
Whenever the Signor does an thing to prove to the world his sound
knowledge on the subject of ptian antiquities, every one will be
glad of his oﬂ'ered guidance, and of his help, at any price, in securing
specimens. In the meantime. perhaps the works of Champollion, Ro-
sellini and Wilkinson, compared with the old classical writings which
relate to Egypt, will be found to give guidance enough, while there is
seldom any scarcity of illustrative curiosities on the spot.

At midnight, three more boats arrived; and their owners roused the
echoes of the whole region, by ﬁring une, in honor of the English
boats on the river. We found the Eng ish here generally quite as well
pleased with the behavior of the Arabs as we were. They found their
Page-162
l 60 HAITI“ Ll".

crews, and also the country people, friendly and helpful—even affec-
tionate, in all their intercourses. The crews were always willing and
cheerful about their work, and honest in their transactions with the
strangers. The drawbacks were the incessant begging of the country
people; and the noise and childish quarreling of the crews among
themselves. These were troublesome incidents; but not to be com-
plained of by us strangers as injuries. Among the many who were
pleased, however, there was one who was always making grievous
complaints. Never man was, by his own account, in such incessant
and pressing'danger of robbery. piracy, and murder, as this gentleman
on the Nile. Never did any man so suffer from the perils in which
he hourly saw his wife and children. Every Arab he met wanted to
rob him: every group on the bank, and every party in a boat. was
congregated to board and pillage his dahabieh, and murder his family.
He showed us a loaded six-barreled pistol which he usually carried in
his hand, as he declared to us, wherever he went ; and which he was.
he assured us, obliged very frequently to discharge. It did not seem
to strike him as strange that all the ot er English. who went unarmed.
and feared nothing. were content with the Arabs—lost nothing, and
met with no alarms. He remained fully convinced of his dan r : and
this is the reason whyI mention his case here. It is the east that
European travelers can do in acknowledgment of the security and
facilities which the Pasha's government aﬂ'ords them on the Nile. to
testif to that security and those facilities; and the testimony is not
less no to the kindly Arabs. on whom so much of their comfort has
depended: and if one traveler talks of his dangers and wron as this
gentleman does, it is necessary to justice that the majority sguld deo
clue their contrary experience. The worst of it is that one man who
has desperate adventures to tell of, will make more impression than a
dozen whose testimony is that they had no adventures. But this
makes it all the more necessary that they should say what they found
the state of things. As for myself, I walked much on shore, and was
frequently wandering away by myself among the ruins or in the ﬁelds:
and I had no reason to consider myself imprudent—except indeed
about the do . Iwas incessantly forgetting that Egyptian dogs are
dangerous— ing trained to attack strangers. But as soon as the bark-
ing began. I found the owners quick and eager in restraining the ani-
mals: and usually there were some one of the crew within hearin .
armed with a club. I do not remember that I ever met with any ru 9
pressure or threatening but twice, while in Egypt: and then I had put
myself in the power of poor creatures who could not resist the tempts-
tion of grasping at the chance of a large baksheesh. One time was at
Philce, as I have related. The other was this evening in a hut at the
E|~Uksur temple, where some women closed the door behind me. and
proved themselves to be very sturdy beggars, till disturbed by one of
my party coming to look for me. Two instances of bold begging,
in ten weeks of constant opportunities, is not much.

As I took a brisk walk along the shore, to warm myself, the next
morning. " the Lybian suburb" was dressed in the most wonderful
Page-163
mass. 161

coloring by the early sun. It was in that direction that our researches
were to lie for some days; arid as soon as our boat was clear of visitors
after breakfast, we crossed the river. and took up our station of the
western bank. Alee was particular in his choice of animals for us to
ride, that we might be suited at once for the whole time of our stay on
the western side. Mrs. Y. had a horse-—quieter than my donkey. I
was favored with a strong. spirited donkey, whose curator was an
active. open-faced, obliging youth, who discovered my wishes and aims
with wonderful quickness, and indulged them to the utmost of his
power. He presently found out my liking for visiting. the Pair: and
also for a canter over the plain: and almost every evening. he would
point to the Colossi, and nod and smile, and begin a run in that direc-
tion, while the rest of the party went straight to the boat. And he ran
so well that we generally fell in with my companions before they had
dismounted, though I had made a pretty wide circuit. I can never
lose the impression of these sunset rides homewards. after the excite-
ments and toils of the day. The Fair. sitting alone amidst the expanse
of_verdure, with islands of ruins behind them, grew more striking to us
every day. Today, for the ﬁrst time. we looked up at them from their
base. The impression of sublime tranquillity which they convey when
seen from distant points, is conﬁrmed byanear approach. There they
sit. keeping watch—hands on knees, gazing straight forward.seemiug,
though so much of the faces is gone, to be looking over to the monu-
mental piles on the other side of the river, which became gorgeous
temples after these throne seats were placed here ;—the most immov-
able thrones that have ever been established on this earth. He who
is popularly called the Memnon, is sadly shattered. This is the work
that Cambyses tried his hand upon overthrowing. With all his efforts,
be shattered it only down to the waist. It is built‘up again; patched
up t—a blank rough space only remaining where we would fnin see a
face. If the faces were of the tranquil, innocent character which marks
the old sculptures. and would eminently suit the cornposure of the atti-
tude, the impression must have been majestic indeed: inviolnble to any
one but Cambyses. Strabo says that, as he was told, the damage was
done b an earthquake. One would like to think that Nature, rather
than an, had done it; and perhaps the inscriptions of ancient visitors.
who lay the blame on Camb ses, need not have much wei ht. But
how came the earthquake to cave the mass of the throne an body un-
hurt, while shattering the shoulders and head? I suppose nobody
thinks that the whole was thrown over. and set up again, the fellow
colossus remainin uninjured. The inscriptions are wonderfully nu-
merous; most in in; some in Greek. On the pedestal—the side
of the throne-chair—is old Nilus, once more busy, as in all times, in
binding up the throne of the King with his water-plants. The King
is Amunoph Ill. His name is over the tablet bound up by Nilus; an
also on the back of the status.

These statues sit now, as I have said, in the midst of an expanse of
verdure, at the season when travelers visit them. At high Nile, they
are islands in the midst of a waste of waters. But of old. their pedes-

ll
Page-164
102 nuns am.

tals rose from the pavement of the Dromos or course which formed the
avenue to the palace-temple of Amunoph, eleven hundred feet behind
the colossi. This palace-temple, once superb with its statues, co-
lumns, and sphinxes, is now a mere heap of sandstone ;-—a little
roughness in the plain, when seen from the heights behind. The
sphinxes are at St. Petersburgh; the columns are broken off fromtheir
bases; the statues peep out in fragments from under the soil. In the
days of the glory of Thebes, the Nile did not come here; butthe whole
avenue, with all its erections, stood on raised ground—a magniﬁcent
sight from the river. The Nile itself has risen since those days; and
in proportion to the raisin of its bed has been its spread over the plain ;
so that the pavement of t e dromos,aud the pedestals of the colossi,
have been buried deeper and deeper in mud; and must continue to be
so. Sand may be dealt with hereafter, for the rescue of the treasures
of Egyptian art; but it does not appear that the mud of the Nile can.
How strange it is to look forward to the gradual stiﬂing of these giants
--sitting patiently there for more thousands of years, to be buried, inch
b inch, out of human sight! They now stand about ﬁfty-three feet
a ve the soil; and seven feet below it. But the mention of the total
height gives less idea of their magnitude than the measurement of the
limbs. From the elbow to the ﬁngers’ ends, they measure seventeen
feet nine inches ; and from the knee to the plant of the foot, nineteen
feet eight inches.

To—day we saw, for the ﬁrst time, an old Egyptian palace: that of
Ramases the Great, so many of whose monuments we had visited
higher up the river. This palace of the Ramaséum (commonly and
erroneously called the Memnonium) is also a temple. The old Pha-
raohs brought their gods into their palaces, and also had apartments in
the temple; so that the great buildings of this metropolis were appro-
priated to gods and kings jointly. It is melancholy to sit on the piled
stones amidst the wreck of this wonderful ediﬁce, where violence incon-
ceivable to us has been used to destroy what art inconceivable to us
had erected. What a rebuke to the vanity of succeeding ages is here!
What have we been about, to imagine men in those early times childish
or barbarous,—to suppose science and civilization reserved for us of
these later ages, when here are works. in whose presence it is a task
for the imagination to overtake the eyesight!

I went ﬁrst to the propylon ; and it seemed to me, as I clambered
about its ruins. that the stones of this outwork alone would build a on-
thedral. I found an inclined plane and staircase within the propylon,
and climbed till I could make my way no further, seeing glimpses
between the fallen blocks of the sunny plain and its mountain boundary.
Returning, I clambered over the ruins of the mere external face of the
propylon; and when Iwas doubting whether [had ever before performed
such a feat of climbing, I found myself, on coming out at the top, still
under the portal! What a teway it must have been! A loosened
jamb which slanted over my end made me feel as one might under a
falling oak. Looking through, towards the palace, I saw what at once
drew my eyes away from the ranges of columns, and perspective of
Page-165
was umm. 103

courts and chambers ;—the remains of the largest statue that even
Egypt ever produced. It is only from a distance that this mass of -
nite would be perceived to be a statue, so enormous is its bulk. It ies
overthrown amongthe fragments of its limbs; the fragments themselves
being masses which it would not be easy to move. The foot looks like
a block preparing for a colossal statue. I had the curiosity to measure
the second toe, and found its length from the fork to be two feet seven
inches. I climbed upon the pile, walking up the inclined plane of its
shoulder, and picking my way on the smooth surface of its neck,
and the remains of its cheek. Some travelers have obtained a sure
footing by setting their feet in the hieroglyphic letters on its back. The
features are gone, the greater part of the face being split away for mill-
stones by the Arabs! How such a mass could be overthrown from the
base remains a mystery. Every writer seems to conclude that the
Persians or Ptolemy Lathyrus eﬂ'ected this kind of ruin throughout
Thebes: but I do not know why we may not suppose an earthquake to
be the agent. At El Karnac the devastation is such as to defy the be-
lief that human agency could have been employed. Enormous columns
are there overthrown from the base in one fall,—their circular stones
lying overlapping each other likera row of cheeses: and this without
any traces of mines, or other channel for the application of explosives.
The mountains of stones also of the great propyla at El Kamac, show
plainly that they fell at once; and there are no means known to us, even
now, after all our study of gunpowder, which could cause such an over-
throw as that at one stroke, and without leaving any traces of the means.
But, supposing this mighty anases to have been prostraled by an
earthquake. the question remains, how he came here from Syene.
Whether the working was done here or at Syene, the granite was
brought from thence. Sir G. Wilkinson gives its weight as somewhere
about 887 tons. 65 cwt.’ How should we now set about quarrying and
conveyin such a mass some hundreds of miles!

Beyon this statue, which used to sit in the area, beside the entrance
to the place, the building looks like a wood in some petriﬁed region
outside our world. The unexpanded lotus is still, to my eye, the most
beautiful kind of column: but the full-blown cup is more a propriate
perhaps to the larger pillars. I like the eighteen smaller pi rs of the
great hall here better than the twelve larger. The li hting of this hall
is beautiful. The roof in the centre was raised some eet above the late-
ral rooﬁng; so that large oblong spaces were left for a si ht of the blue
sky; and when they admitted the slanting rays of the rising and setting
sun upon this grove of pillars, and, through them. lighted up the pic-
tured walls, the lory must have been great. Forty-eight illars sup-
ported these roo s ;—roofs which were painted starry and b no like the
sky. The hall was one hundred feet Ion . Beyond it extend pillared
chambers. in succession and in groups, ti l we come upon mere traces
of their walls and bases of their columns; and at last. out upon the bare
rock. Throughout this range of building, the ground rises and the roofs

' Modern Egypt and Thebes, II. 145.
Page-166
1“ Hum ma.

sink, and the walls close in, so that the whole ediﬁce contracts, the
door-ways lessening in proportion; and an appearance is given of a
lon er perspective than exists. ‘

n the sculptures on the walls, the king pays his duty to the gods.
and receives privileges from them. The Supreme is here; with the
other two who complete the highest triad: and some inferior deities in-
troduce the king into their presence. while the god of letters. 'I‘hoth.
notes the dates of the royal victories on his palm-branch. Elsewhere,
the Supreme presents him with Life and Power: and in the same hall.
the Supreme gives him the falchion and sceptres, ordering him, as
the inscription tells us, to smite his foreign enemies with the one, and
rule Egypt with the other! How he obeyed these orders. other pic-
tures and legends tell us. One captive group, whom he holds by the
hair, are declared to be “foreign chiefs:" and there are Asiatic and
other distant enemies amon 'the vanquished in the battle-pieces, and
the names of towns inscribe amongthe legends, as well as represented
in sculptures of stormin and sieges. As for his home affairs, we ﬁnd
a procession of twenty-three of his sons, and a group of three daugh-
ters. The names of the sons are all inscribed. Elsewhere there is a
procession of priests, bearing the ﬁgures of the Theban ancestors of the

'ngJ There is an inscription in the great hall, on one of the archi-
tr'aves, describing the valuable and beautiful character of this ediﬁce.
and dedicating the sculptures to his father,—the Supreme, who says,
“I grant that your ediﬁce shall be as stable as the sky." (Alas! to
look round upon it now!) Isis adds, “ 1 grant you long life to govern
Egypt.”:t The next chamber seems, as some of the learned think. to
have been the library of the palace. The ceiling bears an astronomical
subject; and an inscription, declaratory of the value of the building of
this apartment. alludes to the “ books of Thoth," the god of letters.
This primitive Mercury is here attended. as Champollion records, by
a ﬁgure with an eye on his head, and surmounted by a legend “ Sense
of Sight ;” the goddess Saf being attended in like manner by a ﬁgure
with an ear on his head, and labelled “ Sense of Hearing :"—(SBlem.)

‘ Champollion interprets these ﬁgures as indicators or guardians of the
Maury—ﬁt the books of Thoth." On its walls, the riests bear shrines
in procession. But before the kin had leisure, an perhaps qualiﬁca-
tion for thus honoring the gods an himself, he had to 'n his fame,
add to his dominions. and put down his enemies. On t e outer walls,
accordingly, we ﬁnd his adventures, in a wonderful collection of battle
sculptures. What we see are a mere remnant of what existed. The
greater number lie in fragments under the mounds of fallen stones:
but enough are left to teach us much. The battle—scene on the wall of
the area exceeds any representation I ever saw for quantity in a given
space. It is barbaric, though includin tokens of no mean civilization.
There is the common barbarism of In 'ng the conqueror and his equi-
paga gigantic in comparison with all the other ﬁgures. He stands in a

' Wilkinson’s Modern Egypt and Thebes, II. 154. 1‘ Ibid. 151..
I Champollion. Lsttres our l’Egypte.
Page-167
mm mm. 165

ﬁne attitude in his ﬂying chariot. his bow in hand (which he draws
behind his head) and the reins tied round his waist. Two quivers
crossed are at his right hand; and the exterior one is decanted with an
extended lion. The king’s real lion is visible in the battle too. The
conqueror drives over prostrate and bound captives; and men are fall-
ing around him in all manner of desperate attitudes. The sie e and
river-scenes are very curious; the scalingdadder. the shiel s. the
bridges. fosses and towers (labeled “ the stron town of Watsch or
Batsch"). giving us much insight into the cinlizstion of the time.
The phalanx of spearmen is capital: their spear-heads being carefully
distinguished from the ripple of the little blue river in which such large
men are ﬂoundering! Then there is the drowned chief whom his 0-
ple are trying to revive; and the city wall plainly distinguished rout
the rock on which it is built. The horses are ﬁnely given; and so is
the king. Here. as in others of the old sculptures. we come upon what
looks like an odd stroke of humor now and then. as in the ass stagger-
ing and falling under the weight of a bag of spoil,—meant probably to
be thus pointed out as gold. But the humor may be merely in our
view of the coalescence of the most literal representation witha method
of art which we have been accustomed to consider formal and conven-
tional beyond all other.

The most beautiful point of view for this palace was from about a
quarter of a mile to the south,where, looking back upon it, its soft-tinted
grove of pillars rose behind the copse of dark tamarisks and acucias
which intervened. This was happily not our only view of the Rams-
séum. It lay in our way from some other objects, and I became quite
familiar with it before the week was out.

We visited today a very beautiful temple at El-Kurneh; to me the
most interesting, on the whole, of any of the ediﬁces at Thebes. It is
old. being begun by the father of the great Ramases. in honor of his
father, and completed by his son in honor of himself. 1 will abstain
from giving any detailed account of it, and merely mention some of its
peculiarities.

There were once sphinxes in the dromos. the remains of which are
still traceable. These sphinxes represented King Osirei himself, con-
veying the favorite boast of great men of an early time—their union of
intellectual power and physical strength. Then comes a ruined pylon—
once the second—and another dromos which brings us to the beautiful
portico; beautiful. though no two pairs of its columns are at the same
distance from each other. These ten columns are composed of the
stalks of water plants, bound together below the capital, where they ex-
Eand. and are again gathered in by the abacus. This very ancient

gyptian order gratiﬁed me more than any later ones. In a dedication
inscription within we ﬁnd the following declaration of the great Rama-
ses. to whom the Supreme. Amun Ra. here again presents the symbol
of Life. "Ramases, the beloved of Amun, has dedicated this work to
his father Amun Ra. king of gods, having made additions for him to
the temple of his father, the king, son of the Sun. Osirei."‘ The part

‘ Wilkinson‘s Modern Egypt and Thebes, II. 140.
Page-168
106 1mm u".

of the temple which was dedicated by this Osirei to his father, Ramasu
I., was ﬁnished by the illustrious grandson of the latter, who put in the
sculptures. Among these sculptures is one where his grandfather
stands behind the gods, bearing the insignia of Osiris, and watching
the introduction and homage of his grandson to the gods. The legend
over him declares him to be “ Ramases deceased, esteemed by the great
God, dzc. doc. " Elsewhere In the same apartment. this king and Osirei,
as well as the gods, are receiving the pious oﬂ‘erings of the great Ra-
mases. The faces here are astonishingly preserved. and they have a
full measure of the sim licity and sweetness of the old Egyptian type
of countenance. I thin there can be no doubt of the elegance of this
temple-palace, In comparison with those of later date.

Some barbarians called Charles and Jane Tilt, have cut and blacked
their names and the date of their visit in large on some of the sacred

' places of this temple. As they have thought ﬁt to publish their own
names and adventure in a mischievous manner, they have no right to
object to a republication which may be useful in the way of warning to
others.

I was delighted to ﬁnd here many of the prevalent symbolical forms
—here, in this very ancient temple. The boat which we ﬁnd every-
where had at each end the ﬁnest ram's head I had seen. I was pleased
to meet with grapes among the olferings. Those which I had seen at
Kalib’sheh with leaves and tendrils, were modem. But here were
bunches of undeniable grapes. I saw also the elegant lamp I mentioned
before, and the lion-shaped bier. The globe and asps were on the cor-
nices, and the ceiling of the portal was beautiful—cartonches and stars
on a blue ground.

These were our studies durin our ﬁrst day at Thebes. These
palaces, built for the busy and ill ugtrious living. were to us like tombs,
for there was a spirit of death within and around them all. Not only
the inmates had passed away, but the deeds, the modes of life, the ob-
jects of reverence, pride and desire. But to-morrow we were to pene-
trate deeper into the region of the dead. We were to explore some of
the wonders of the Death valley of Thebes.

 

CHAPTER XV.

THEMES—OLD EGYPTIAN VIEWS OF DEATH AND HEREAFI‘ER—THE
PRIESTS.—INTERMENTS.—TOMB 0F OSIREI.

Tm: most striking thing at Thebes Is perhaps the evidence on every
hand of the importance to the old Egyptian mind of the state of the
dead. To the philosopher there' Is nothing surprising in this; for he
knows that it must be so to an infant race, inexperienced In the history
of man, and unleamed as to the powers of the human mind. and the
relative value of Its aims. Everywhere the mind of man is active, un-
satisﬁed, and aspiring; and while he knows so little of the world he lives
Page-169
IGYPI'IAN mws or Dana. 16']

in, and the companions beside him, and the unseen region of ideas which
lies about him as infantine nations do,he is impelled to refer his activity
and his desires to the future which he supposes to contain what he at
present wants and cannot ﬁnd. It is with pnerile man as it is with the
child who is never satisﬁed with the present, but always stretching for-
ward into the unknown future,—not knowing the value of what is under
his hand, but neglecting it in dreams of what he shall have and do in
some desirable state by and by. The aspiration is instinctive. and
therefore right: but as yet unenlightened and undisciplined. As he
grows up. the present becomes more to him, and the future less. In
proportion as he becomes truly wise he discovers that in the present
scene and moment lies more than his best industry can understand and
his best powers achieve. He brings home his faculties; and ﬁnds in
the present enough to occupy them all, and to ﬁll his life completely full
of interest, activity, and advancement. It is only a child, grown or un-
g'rown—an ignorant and undisciplined child—who would weep for more
worlds to conquer: and he is the wisest man who knows that he has
always many unexplored and ungovemed worlds on his hands which
should leave him no leisure for looking forward into a futiire which he
cannot penetrate. It is with races of men as with individuals. Not
knowing yet how to employ their aspirations and desires on the un-
fathomable and inexhaustible universe in which they are placed; not
knowing how adequate their existing human powers are, if fully ex-
ercised, to their present human work; not knowing how exact is the
momentary retribution of ﬁdelity or unfaithfulness to their powers and
. their work. they are perpetually referring to the future for a wider scene,
for new powers, and for arbitrary reward and punishment. There is
nothing blameworthy or despicable in this. On the contrary, the tend-
ency comes in happily to lift men over their infantine age of inexperi-
ence. as the child is ennobled by the forecast of his hopes before he can
be yet more ennobled by the wisdom of his self‘knowledge. And every
working of instinct, every direction of natural aspiration, is to be revered
in its proper place and at its proper time. We truly respect, accordingly,
the child's or the peasant’s notion of a literal judgment day, when there
will be a process of trial, with books of account opened, and a sentence
passed in words, and burning inﬂicted in the one case, and whatever
the individual most desires conferred in the other. We truly respect
these notions in the child and the peasant, while we know that no en.
lightened and disciplined man looks forward to any such actual scene.
And the enlightened and disciplined man knows that while he continu-
ally thinks less of the future, asthe inestimable present oflife and duty
opens before his contemplation and his industry, his hold of that in-
estimable present will appear weak and careless to a wiser than he who
will come after him. Thus must we, who look back some little way.
and from some small height, upon the track of ages. regard with serious
respect. the engrossing attention that infantine nations gave to death and
the state of the dead; the records they have left of their puerile pride.
ambition and violence proving that, at the same time, they were but
little aware of the value of what they held in the present life, with all
Page-170
160 hm“ hm.

its duties. its spiritual powers and privileges. As I said before, the
most striking thing at Thebes is the evidence on every hand of the im-
portance to the old Egyptian mind of the state of the dead: and these
evidences will be regarded by the philosopher with the solemn reverence
which the wise cannot but feel towards every form in which Faith, the
noblest of human faculties, manifests itself. The liter-a1 truth of the
objects of faith, when those objects are the highest that can be conceived,
is asmall matter; the exercise of the faculty is everything: and though
the imagery of the Egyptian tombs is to us only imagery, while to their
inmates it was anticipated fact, we may, in our sympathy with their
mood of faith, enter those tombs with an awe perhaps as strong as
theirs.

When the Pharaohs built their palaces and temples. they had more
aims than one to fulﬁl. They blazoned their own deeds upon them;
but they gloriﬁed the deeds of their fathers, even more carefully than
their own: and they must have had in view the sympathy and ediﬁ-
cation of other men, living and to live. But their careful choice and
elaborate preparation of their tombs, with every possible resort in the
adornment of them, show us that the unseen state was the most inte-
resting subject, and that of the ﬁrmest faith to them. The Pharaohs _
were wont to devote the early years of their reigns to royal deeds of
rule and conquest: and they did not begin to build their palaces and
temples till they had achieved deeds with which to glorify them. and
brought home captives to do the work of building them. But it was quite
otherwise with their tombs. Every man who could afford himselfa tomb.
began its preparation early in life. A palace or temple could be carried
on to completion by a successor; but a tomb was sealed up when the
owner was laid in it. It could not, therefore, under the uncertainty of
life, be too soon begun; and their practice seems to show that it could
not be toolong elaborated. Few or none appear to be ﬁnished in every
part; and some were in progress through a long course of years.

The most prominent idea presented to us in these tombs is that their
makers considered them to be really and truly an abode ;—-literally “ a
long home ;" or, as they called them. “ everlasting habitations:" and
to be prepared and provided accordingly.—The way to the long home
of the Theban kings is very appropriate and most impressive; a suc-
cession of winding deﬁles between grand but most desolate rocks, the
recesses of which might seem to invite the candidate for death to come
and rest here in the depth of silence, till his thousands of years of she-
pense should be fulﬁlled :—to rest in silence, but ‘not in solitude: not
in the solitude of the wide desert, but in the still congregation of this
deep valley.

To the old Egyptians, as to all who are heedless of the unborn
human race in interest for those who have lived, the true congregation
of the human race must always have been looked for beyond the
grave—so immeasurably must the dead ever outnumber existing men.
Every man must have felt himself one ofa very small company in com-
parison with that which he was to join. But the case of the kings
was strong indeed. Each one of them lived solitary; and it was only
Page-171
1'11]!!!- 169

when he died that he could enter among his peers. He went from the
solitude of that busy, peopled plain to the sanctiﬁed society of the
Valley of Death. To him, this was the great event to which, as we
see, he was looking forward during the best years of his life; and he
devoted his wealth, his thoughts, and the most sacred desires of his
heart to preparation for his promotion to the society of kings, and the
presence of the gods. There. an abode would be prepared for him.
On the walls of his tomb he attempted to paint the succession of man-
sions in the great heavenly house which he was to inhabit at last: but
meanwhile. he was to dwell, for a vast length of time, in the long home
in the valley, where his peers were lying still (whether asleep or vigi-
lant) all round about him.

How ﬁt and Impressive is the choice of this site for the metropolis
of the dead. can be conceived of only by contrasting it with that ol" the
metropolis of the living. Both might be viewed stories from the moun-
tain ridges behind western Thebes. There is a ridge where strangers
are taken now, to overlook the plain; and glorious is the view: but
today I went much higher still. to a peak whence I could see quite
down into the Valley of the Tombs, and over every recess of the vivid
green plain,—every nook which lay between the Arabian and Lybian
hills. I chose to see it as itonce was. I made myself three thousand
years old. and saw from myp erch what was worth looking at. Great
as are the existing marvels of Thebes, they are, from this height, mere
indications of the presence of man. Sprinkled over the expanse of
verdure, one notices a few heaps of stones.—the temples and palaces;
and a pair of sentinels,—-the Colossi: and across the blue and brim-
ming river, a little cobweb railing, which is EI-Uksur; and a group of
massive towers,—-which is El-Karnac. This. with all its soft freshness
of coloring, all its African brightness, is too sad and dreary to dwell
on. It is better to see it with the eyes of three thousand years ago.

There lies the city below,ﬁlling up all the plain, except where there
is a girdle of ﬁelds. It is those gardens and groves among the houses
which make it cover so large a space; for there never was, in this
world. such a collection of houses as would cover this plain. How
the gardens spread, not only round the palaces, but behind the ranges
of dwellings which we should call streets! How their ponds gleam
on the eye, and their clustres of palms overshadow their lawns. and
intervene between the eye and the ﬂat house-roofs! I can distinguish
the children pushing out from among the reeds in this nearer garden, in
their little papyrus boat of nautilus shape.—-How ﬁnely the city rami-
ﬁes.—-with no circuit wall, but temple ranges running out in all direc-
tions! That advanced post of temples at intervals is a sufﬁcient defence.
if any foe should dare to come. They are perfect fortiﬁcations; and
the watchmen on the summits of the propyla command the valley in
both directions, as far as the irregular hill boundary admits. What
masses these are,——these tour which command the plain! El-Karnac
and El-Uksur over yonder, and the Ramaséum and Medeenet Haboo
below me! How they stand, as if each calling to the other! How
each stretches out its dromos, and plants its ﬁles of sphinxes, or its

I
Page-172
1'10 ns'rnrr Lin.

pair of colossal sentinels. as if to proclaim “ here lives a king. or the
glory of a king l” Far over yonder. in the avenue between El-Karuac
and El-Uksur, I see some movement ;—surely it is the ﬂoating of pen-
nons. and the carrying of standards. lfit crosses the river, I may see
what it means. Meantime, how gay is the blue winding Nile. with
its heavy, slow-moving boats,—the gay checkered sails up, and the
row of long oars glancing in the sun! How pretty are those villas
scattered about the edge of the desert. each with its plot of garden or
ﬁeld sloping down into the fertile region of the plain; each with its
canopy of shady palms; and every palm swaying in the same 1' ht
breeze which ﬁlls the sails on the river, and ﬂoats the pennons of t t
multitude in the avenues of El-Karnac! Here is a multitude below
me too. The women are exchanging their goods in the areas of the
streets.—bargaining slowly. it seems, because, having no coin. they
have to settle the worth of their valuables before they can agree on that
of their produce. And those men,—,how they are toiling about that
sledge.—advancing it by hair’s-breadths under its load of granite;
a mass as large as any merchant’s house in the city! What a team of
harnessed men. straining at the load! By their light complexiona. they
are Asiatic captives. They are helping to build yonder palace. on
whose walls their captivity is to be comntemorated.—The wind
strengthens. and brings up some sounds which tell what a multitude
is stirring below. Through the hum and buzz there comes the shock
of the mallet falling on the wedge in the quarry. and the lowing of the
cattle on the farm at the edge of the plain below. And was not that
a breath of music? Yes: the blast of a distant trumpet, and some
shrill pipe tones. Ahl it is from that concourse over the water.
How the multitude comes sweeping down to the river’s brink ! Surely
that crowd of boats is going to bring them over. Yes; there is the
funereal boat for the transport of the dead; and those others are making
a bridge for the passage of the living. What a train they will be.
winding through the deﬁles of that death region on my left hand!
How still it is at this moment! Nothing there but the shadows
thrown into the hollows! No sound but of the ﬂapping of the wings
of yonder eagle; for the wild dog is quiet till night. What a contrast
is that parched. silent, desolate valley to this gay and stirring plain;
and how complete. to those on either side. is the barrier of these rocky
hills which I, from my perch.can overlook! Today. as yonder funeral
train winds through it. the echoes of the valley of death will be awakened.
and they will answer to notes of wailing. or shouts of boasting: and
its hot mounds will be alive with shadows: but to-morrow, the two
regions which are separated but by a partition of rock, will be once
more opposed as activity to oblivion. and Life to Death.

As it appeared to me from that pinnacle. it appeared daily when I
rode through the Deﬁles of the Valley of the Tombs of the Kings. I
felt that there was never a nobler seat for a metropolis of the living
than the plain of Thebes. and never a nobler approach than by these
ravines from the city of the living to the kingdom of the dead.

Every Egyptian king was, as I have said, a priest. He might be

.ﬂ
"0
Page-173
m PRIII’I'I. 171

chosen out of the Second Caste.——the Military: but he must become a
priest before he could assume the sovereignty. It was a sufﬁcient
reason for this that the king must always thus be an instructed person.
and in fellowship with the high class who held all the dignities and
privileges of knowledge and sacred ofﬁce: but there was another reason.
The sovereign in Egypt .was assisted in his government by a council
of priests: and of course it was necessary for him to hold, in common
with his advisers, that knowledge and those secrets of Custom by which
the nation was governed. Before looking at their most interesting
existing work, it may be well to form In our minds some slight picture
of this remarkable order of men.

Herodotus gives us information of their personal habits. which were
carefully arranged with a view to their perfection as models before the
eyes of the people. We all know how much more necessary. and how
much more difﬁcult extreme cleanliness is in Egypt than elsewhere.
The priests shaved their heads; and their whole bodies were shaved
every three days, that. as Herodotus says. there might not, by possi-
bility, be any vermin or soil on those who served the gods.‘I Twice
by day, and twice by night, they Washed in cold water: and they wore
no other clothing than a dress of linen, and shoes of papyrus. They
were daily served with the sacred meats of the temples, ready cooked;
but from some articles of food. as ﬁsh, they abstained; and were com-
pelled to be very moderate In the use of wine. The food they abstained
from seems to have been such as tended to produce leprotts and other
eruptive diseases. They had an extreme and mysterious horror of
beans , never permitting them to be sown in Egypt. or touched when
found growing wild. Whatever were their reasons were probably
those of Pythagoras in warning his disciples against touching beans.
Some have supposed (after a hint in Aristotle) that Pythagoras meant
to warn his pupils against political action.—the ballot vote beingg iven
by a bean. but as the philosopher derived so much else from‘ Egypt,
and as we know the strength of the reprobation of beans there. we
need only suppose him to have been more aware of the priestly reasons
for that reprobation than we are.

It need scarcely be pointed out that much more was included in
the class of sacred things among ancient nations (as among modern
half-civilized ones) than with us. Legislation, Geometry, Medicine,
every science was a sacred study among the Egyptians. and engrossed
by the priests; as was the whole of their religious philosophy. They
made laws which they enforced without rendering any reason, holding
that the people had “ nothing to do with the laws but to obey them.’
They explored many regions of natural science. giving the people the
results in the form of divination and magic. They held among them-
selves the doctrines of the unity of God, and of a divine moral govern-
ment. and lowered their doctrine to meet the comprehension of the
people, by deifying the attributes of God, and making local rulers of
them. The testimony of ages has proved the vice of this method of

' Herod. II. 37.
Page-174
l7! nuns am.

proceeding: but we must remember that the Egyptian priesthood had
not this testimony of ages. We must remember how they stood, a
little band of observers, among the wonders and mysteries of the uni-
verse; and that, as yet, they had to collect the facts of external nature
to a great extent before they could lookrfar into causes (so-called); and
that these facts were not regarded by them with the calm eye of know-
ledge. but the bashful glance of new and awe-struck perception. They
could hardly receive such knowledge as they had, otherwise than as a
special gift and revelation to themselves. as students of the universe.
It was not-known then, not dreamed of by any one, that knowledge is
the equal birthright of all, and that truth is of the last importance to
every human being. We are not, therefore, to reprobate in the Egyp-
tian priesthood what is worthy of reprobation now in any man or body
of men ;—a distrust of the general understanding, as compared with
our own; a keeping back of the knowledge which is the birthright of
all; an oﬂ'er. under veils and disguises, of that truth which every man
has an equal right to see in its native purity and nobleness. The
Egyptian priesthood tried the experiment of a civil government which
was probably the ﬁttest at the time for its purposes—those purposes
being, we may hope, centered in the good of the people :—Pythagorss,
at least, thus understood the matter. The experiment, which lay
within the terms of natural laws. appears to have succeeded ; the
Egyptian mode of governing society by a council of the wisest and
best having lasted longer than perhaps any other government that na-
tions have experienced. The Egyptian priesthood tried another expe-
riment, which failed, because it violated the terms of natural laws.
They tried the experiment of making themselves gods to the people in
regard to the administration of knowledge and natural beneﬁts. They
took upon themselves to measure and to manage the minds of men in
regard to matters which in fact they held only in common with all men.
They did this, I doubt not, in all sincerity, ﬁdelity. and benevolence;
but it was a mistake of ignorance; and it was follower] by its natural
retribution. Ignorance, whether guilty or unavoidable, is always pre-
sumptuous. These priests were ignorant and presumptuous. while
most earnestly intent on doing good with such knowledge as they had.
They assumed the exclusive possession of that to which all had a right;
and they corrupted themselves and their charge together. The philo-
sophy they held languished and nearly died out. Their own order
deteriorated in power, knowledge, and character; and the people be-
came idolaters. sinking into that weakness and under that doom which
superstition brings on as surely as the pollution of the atmosphere
causes lassitude and lingering death. The experiment of spiritual
government failed; but we are not to deal with the priests for it as if
they had had our thousands of years of added experience.

I never believed during my school days. and I am sure I never shall
now. that any order of men ever carried on a wilful and deliberate fraud,
from generation to generation. for any purpose whatever. Iused to
suspect in my school days, as I believe now, that all the heathen priest-
hoods which were held up for my scorn as bands of impostors, had
Page-175
m m. I'll

ﬁtith. one way or another. in what they taught. And there seems every
reason to believe this now of the Egyptian priesthood, who taught more
extraordinary things perhaps than any other. If we do but put our-
selves in their places for an instant, we may perhaps see how many
things may have been venerable and true to them, which we, with our
knowledge and our ignorance. our experience and our prejudices, do
not know how to treat seriously at all.

To them, nothing was so.wonderful, so mysterious, so important as
Life and Organization. Their purity of life and habits—their taking
but one wife, and banishing all indecency from their temple rites-—
enlightens us to much that we might reprobate otherwise in the illus-
trations of some of their festivals, and a few of their doctrines. Perhaps
they were wiser than we are in their reverence for natural instincts;
and they were certainly not wrong in thinking life and its production
the most sacred and the most real, and therefore the most important
fact with which the human race can have concern. When they by de-
grees led the people down into gross brute-worship (if indeed it is true
that they did so), they certainly misapplied or ill-conveyed their reverent
appreciation of the great fact of life; but the fault was in the misappli-
cation, and not in the philosophy which recognized in life, wherever
found, something altogether sacred, before which the human intellect
must bow down, as an insoluble mystery. I am sure that we are wrong
in the other extreme, in the levity or utter thoughtlessness with which
we regard the races of interior animals, which have shared with ours,
for thousands of years, the yet unsolved mystery of sentient existence,
without sharing with us anything else than what is necessary for the
support of that existence. We know no more of the experience, one
may say, the mind, of the cattle. the swallows, the butterﬂies, and worms
about us than if they lived in another planet. They and man have met
hourly for all these thousands of years without having found any means
of communication; without having done anything to bridge over the
gulf which so separates them. that they appear more phantoms to each
other. The old Egyptian priests recognized the difﬁculty, and made a
mistake upon itz—disastrous enough. We, for the most part, commit
the other great mistake of not recognizing the mystery. We are not
likely ever to embody our consciousness of it in any form of brute won-
ship; but we are hardly qualiﬁed to criticise those who fell into that
perhaps sublime error in the early days of human speculation.

Then again, about their Oracles, Magic, and Medicine ;——it is need-
less and therefore unjust, to attribute to them any artiﬁce or insincerity.
All who have duly inquired into that class of natural facts. know that
among human faculties exist those of perception or a prehension of
distant and of future events; and some powers of sym etic operation,
whose nature and limits are as yet but little understoo . Those powers
are as yet but too little inquired into. notwithstanding the example and
exhortations of Bacon, Cuvier, Laplace. and other philosophers who
were rendered by their philosophy meek enough to learn from ‘nature.
Finding, as we do, indisputable proofs that at present the human being
is capable of various states of consciousness, and of knowing events
Page-176
174 names am.

which are happening afar. and of foreknowing events which are future
-—sometimes spontaneously, and sometimes by means of an agency pur-
posely employed ;—-knowing. on the other hand, that history abounds
with records which everybody believes more or less. of prophecy, of
preternatural (so-called) knowledge, of witchcraft, unaccountable sympa-
thies, and miraculous cures; we have every reason to suppose that the
Egyptian priesthood encountered and held the facts which some of us
encounter and hold, and employed them as sincerely and devontly as
they employed other facts in natural philosophy. It is probable that
the oracles were true: and we have no right to doubt that the priests
believed them true—as earnestly as they believed that they could cure
the sick whom they carried into their temples, and on whose heads they
religiously laid their hands, with invocations to the gods. The faculties
which drew the attention of Bacon and others are found more vigorous.
more spontaneous, and more easily excitable among orientals than
among ourselves. If we ﬁnd, by the half-dozen. merely by opening
our minds to the fact, cases of far-seeing, and fore-seeing. and curative
power, it is probable that such cases were familiar tothe heathen priest-
hoods of old; and that they sincerely believed that persons so gifted
held a revealing commission from the gods. While fuﬂy aware of the
means necessary for eliciting the faculty, and using those means. the
priest might wait on the speech of the oracular somnarnbule, believing
it to proceed from the veritable inspiration of the god. This is not the
place for bringing together the evidence that exists about the dealings of
the Egyptian priests with the sick and inﬁrm: but it is curious; and it
shows no cause for the assumption that they were jugglers, or in any
way insincere in their practice. They probably believed that they
should give relief by the “ touching with the hands.” which, as Solon
tells us, “ will immediately restore to health," when soothing medicines
are of no avail; and by that “ stroking with gentle hands” which
Eschylus says was to be had on the N ilez‘ and they were probably
justiﬁed in their belief by the results. Nothing but a very large pro-
portion of cores will account for the continued celebrity of any seat of
health during a sequence of many centuries.

As to the oracles, there were many in Egypt; and they were fa-
mous from the earliest times of which we hate any record. The two
most celebrated were those of Amun Rs. in the Oasis of Amun; and
that of Buto in the city of that name.i Herodotus tells a curious story
of the establishment of the oracles of Amun Ra and of Dodona.t He
heard two versions ;—one from the priests of Amun at Thebes; the
other from the priestesses of the oracle at Dodona. The Greek priest-
esses told him that two black doves were carried of from Thebes;
one of which went into the Lybian Desert, and the other came to Do-
dona, perched on an oak, and spoke. saying that it was the will of the
king of the gods that he should have an oracle there. The dove which

' Prometheus to lo: “ There Zeus will render you sane, stroking you with gentle
hand and simply touching you." This sanctuary at Canopus was celebrated for the
cures wrought by the god.

1' Herod. ll. 83. I lbid. 54, 55.
Page-177
ms urns-rs. 175

ﬂew to the Lybian oasis delivered a similar command there from A'mun
Re. The story of the Theban priests to Herodotus was that two wo-
men, sacred to the god. were carried off from Thebes by the Phceni-
cians, and set up oracles at the Oasis and at Dodona. They were
probably carried off for the sake of that power of provision which had
caused their consecration at Thebes,'and which they exercised after-
wards at the two new oracular seats. Herodotus says expressly that
there were no priestessea in Egypt:" yet it is certain that women of
the priestly‘ caste were. in one way or another, employed and conse-
crated about the temples; and in all purity and honor. They were
probably the utterers of the oracle; and might be also the dispensers
of health in the sanctuaries. Among so large a. body as that of the
Egyptian priesthood, it is probable that there was never any want of
somnambules. who would be looked upon as chosen by the god of the
region to deliver his oracles; and who would do it. while the faculty
worked clearly (which we now find to be rarely for any long time);
and without any need ofjugglery at the time, or occasion to suspect it
now. Diodorus Siculus tells us of a d aughter of Sesostris who seems
to have had the faculty as eminently as Joan of Arc, exercising it with
regard to her father’s victories as Joan did about her own. Her fa-
ther. being king. was also High-priest, and must have known how far
to trust his daughter's divination: and he planned his proceedings, and
prepared for his conquests, under her directiond’ Herodotus observes
thht this Theban oracle and that of Dodona are much like each others:
that the art of foretelling future events, as practised in the Greek tem-
ples. was derived from Egypt: and that it is certain that the Egyptians
were the ﬁrst of the human race who established feasts and public as-
semblies. processions, and the manner of approaching God and holding
intercourse with him: and that the Greeks had borrowed these cos!
toms from the Egyptians.

Every god had,as Herodotus tells us, a high-priest and several other
priests; each of whom is succeeded on his death by his son.§ The
principle of their sacriﬁces was to oﬂ‘er to the gods what was hostile
or unacceptable to them ; so that the sacriﬁce. while a sign of homage,
was so through an act of vindictiveness. The animals oﬂ'ered were
usually those in which a wicked soul was, or might be su posed to be,
residing at the time. They laid hands on the head 0 the victim,
charged it with maledictionsJ and then got rid of it as fast as possible.
If there were Greeks at market. the head was sold to them: if not. it
was thrown into the river. The hull Apia was, as everybody knows,
black. with white marks; the star on the forehead bein the sign of
its being an incarnation of the deityﬂ The bullocks o ered in sacri-
ﬁce were red, because Typho was supposed to be of that complexion :

and if the priests found a single hair on the animal which was not red,
they rejected it.“

' Herod. H. 35. Wilkinson's Ancient Egyptians, l. 261.

I Herod. II. 58. Ibid. 37. I [bid 39.

1 Herodotus says (In. 28,) “The Mtians say that a ﬂash of lightning descends
from heaven upon her,” (the cow-mother of Apis,) “and that from this ray she con-
ceivathepdApis.” ” Hamillaa.
Page-178
l7. Ins-nan Luvs.

One of the sacred traditions of Egypt was that Isis had given one-
third of the land to the priests, on condition of perpetual honors being
aid to Osiris after his death. We know how Joseph left the priests’
nds in their possession when he bought up all the rest of the land of
Egypt: and when. after the famine, he decreed that the king should
have a ﬁfth part of the produce. he excepted the lands of the priests
from the impost.‘ The personal wants of the priests were all supplied
from the temples: and thus they were entirely free from the cares of
life. For one item of property they had the Tombs: and their mo-
nopoly of a property in such constant request must have been very
proﬁtable.

It appears that there was a lake made near every capital city in
Egyptd’ for the transit of the dead ; and a sacred boat to bear the hearse;
and a boatman whose oﬂicial name, written in Greek. was Charon.1
The funeral trains were obliged to pass over this lake on the way to
the tomb; but they might return by land. The purpose of the oblige.
tory custom of crossing the lake was that all the dead might pass
through the same ordeal before admission to their “ eternal habitation,"
as the priests called the tomb. This ordeal was judgment by the forty-
two§ assessors who, on earth, performed the ﬁrst stage of the work
which was to be completed by the forty-two heavenly assessors, who
awaited the dead within the threshold of the unseen world. Notice
was given to these judges of the day of the funeral; and they stood in
1!. half circle on the nearer shore of the lake, awaiting the arrival of the
funeral train. / Any person might accuse the deceased in their presence
of any immoral set. If the accusation was proved. the deceased was
not allowed to pass. If the accuser could not substantiate his story.
he was severely punished. Even kings II have been known to be turned
back from the place of embarkation, when acts of injustice have been
proved against them: and it appears that the priests had no more ex-
em tiou than others from this ordeal. Those of the rejected dead who
ha left a family behind them were carried home. and their mummy-
cases set upright against the wall of some chamber; a perpetual spec-
tacle of shame and grief to their families, who suffered acutely from the
disgrace of what had happened. Those who were poor and friendless.
as well as vicious, were put into the ground where the rejection took
place; and this was the shore where their melancholy ghosts wandered,
if poets any true, pining for the Elysian ﬁelds which lay beyond; those
Elysian ﬁeldsﬂ being the beautiful meadows which, in the principal
burial-place of the Nile valley, at Memphis, extended beyond the lake
of the Dead, all ﬂowery with lotus and blossoming reeds.

Besides persons convicted of criminal acts. debtors were excluded
from burial." A creditor might possess himself of the mummy till the

' Genesis, XLVII. 22, 26. Wilkinson's Ancient Egyptians. V. 420.

I Diodorus, I. 92. According to Chumpollion. '

l Diodorus, I. 72. 1 lbid. 96.

" According to Herodotus, (II. 136 this was a very old arrangement, dating from
a law of Asychis, who, early in the irat Period, built the Brick Pyramid. “Under
his reign, as commerce suffered from a scarcity of money, he published the priests
Page-179
manna. 177

family had satisﬁed his claims; and the priests could refuse a tomb till
it could be paid for. It became the ambition of the family of a debtor
to furnish forth, sooner or later, a grand funeral. which, as the liabili-
ties of the deceased must be ﬁrst discharged. was in fact a restoration-
of the family honor.—In some cases of strong conjugal aﬂ'ection, the
survivor retained at home the body of the departed. that both might be
carried to the tomb together: but in such cases. it was always under-
stood that a respectable funeral was in reserve.

The priests kept a number of tombs always ready.—probably
covered with the ordinary kinds of paintings, and ﬁnished, except in
the blank spaces left for the name and titles and character of the occno
pant. It is certain that services for the dead and offerings to them were
celebrated at times long after the funeral; and it is thought probable
that in cases where a new name is put over the old one, and a different
family has clearly come into possession of the place, there may have
been a discontinuance of the payments and offerings given for services'
for the deceased. and the priestsrhave let the tomb for a second-hand
place of burial.‘ Kings and wealthy families no doubt purchased the
site. or the excavated chambers, and adorned them according to their
own taste; often beginning the work in early manhood, as I-have men-
tioned before. and carrying it on till the day of death.

When I speak of the services and offerings to the dead, it does not
follow that these were presented within the tomb. The tomb appears
to have been closed and sealed at once. But small altars, sculptured
with offerings, have, in so many instances, been, found before the en-
trances of tombs,i that we may suppose the rites to have been celebrated
there.

After permission to pass on had been given by the judges, an eulogy
on the deceased, and a prayer to the gods for his welfare in Hades,
were read by one of the ofﬁciating priests; and Charon roceeded in
his ferrying. When the opposite shore was reached. an the proces-
sion landed, the ground was sprinkled before the wheels of the funeral
car; and sometimes palm-branches were strewn in the way: The
body was sometimes crowned with amaranth or other everlastings, or
with bay-leaves, or fresh ﬂowers.§

There was much display of sorrow. In the paintings of funeral
rites. we always see mourners throwing dust on their heads. beating
themselves. and evidently uttering cries.—1n ordinary cases, the body
was laid in one of the pits or recesses in the tomb: but in the case of
kings and great men. we know that there was a sarcophagus in a cham-
ber appropriated to it.

say, a law which forbade borrowing except on condition of the body of the borrower’s
father being given in pledge. It was added to this law that the creditor should also
have in his power the burial of the debtor; and that if he refused to pay the debt
for which be had deposited a pledge so precious, he could not, after his death, he
laid in the tomb of his fathers, nor in any other; and that he could not, after the
death of any of his own family, render them this honor."

' Wilkinson’s Ancient Egyptians, V. 884. ; Ibid. V. 387.

1 Ibid. V. 42).. Ibid. V. 428.

12
Page-180
178 sass-nu am.

Thus much before the sealing up of the tomb. What aﬁerwards?

As he had passed the external judgment, he was believed by the
mourners without to be assured of re-union. in his immortal edbence,
with the Supreme, from whom all being emanates. The family have
likened him, in the preparation of his body, to Osiris. and have painted
the emblems of Osiris on his envelop; and will henceforth call him
by that sacred name. The oﬂ'erings they bring, and will continue to
bring occasionally. are not consecrated to their mortal comrade, but to
the portion of divinity which dwelt In him .—They place behind their
altar of offerings the images of [sis and Nepthys, the First and the
Last: and believe that the First and the Last attend at the head and
feet of the body. as long as it remains in the tomb. ‘ They think of
him as ﬁnding his way in the untried regions which they yet seem to
themselves to know so familiarly. He leaves behind him the eulogy
which is inscribed on the entrance wall of his tomb, and is met by
Thoth, the Conductor of the dead. by whom he is fetched away, and
led on to a more fearful judgment than that man’s judgment by the
shore of the lake which he has passed with honor. He is announced.
according to his legend, thus: “Arrival of a soul in Amenti." His
secret faults, and his sins of omission, of which men could be no judges,
are now to come under review: and Thoth, whose legend? declares
him “the Secretary of Justice of the other great gods." is to produce
his book, in which he has recorded the whole moral life of the soul
come to judgment.—The forty-two heavenly assessors are believed to
represent the forty-two sins which the Egyptians believed man to be
subject to. Each searched the newly-arrived soul, and declared its
condition In respect to the particular sin. 1 Then came the trial of the
balance. The symbol of the actions of the candidate are placed in
one scale, and the symbol of integrity in the other. Thoth looks on,
mdy to record. Horus holds the hand of the candidate; and the
dog§ watches the process, ready to turn on the condemned if his scale
should be “ found wanting." If all is well, he advances in front of the
balance, and ﬁnds the infant Horus seated on his lotus-blossom before
the throne; and on the throne is the Judge. prepared to welcome him
by raising the end of his sceptre, and to permit him to enter among the
ode within. 0f the happy state little was revealed. because, as it was
eclared, “ the heart of man could not conceive of it." Almost the
only particular declared was that there was a tree of Life." on whose
fruit the gods wrote the names of mortals destined to immortality. and
whose fruit made those who ate of it to be as gods. His relatives
thought of him as wearing on his head, as a mark of his justiﬁcation,

' Wilkinstm‘ sAncient Egyptians, V. 416.

1' Champollion, Lettres sur I’Egypte.

I Mischief. Blasphemy. ldlencss. Stealing divine goods. Lying. Libertinism.
Impurity. Skepticism (“hasdchaking at the words of truth. ") Long spceohifying.
Need for remorse. Gluttony—Here are some of the forty-two sins read at? by
Cbampollion from the Legends. Lettres sur l'Egypte.

S If any one wishes to lmow the name of the Egyptian Cerberus, lean indulge
him with ig—cidng Champollion. The name is Teoudm-enement.

| The Person.
Page-181
mama-s. 1‘19

the feather of integrity: and they wrote beside his namerom that
time forward, the name of the goddess of J ustice; a practice equivalent
to that of sﬂixing the epithet “justiﬁed" to his name. This goddess
of Justice, Thrnsi. is present during the trial of the soul: and she is
identiﬁed in the sculptures by her legend “Thmei. who lives in Amenti,
where she weighs hearts in the balance t—no sinner «capes her.”

The survivors of any one for whom a burial has been obtained, but
who might be suspected of unlitness for the heavenly mansions. were
enabled to form but too clear an idea of his fate: for the pains of the
wicked could be conceived of by human imagination, though the im-
mortal pleasures of the just could not. The purgatory of the Egyp-
tians was in fact described deﬁnitely enough: and the representations
of it in the tombs ’ve a strange sensation to the gazer before he has
become accustom to them. At the extreme and of a large tomb at
Thebesd I saw some marks on the black and stained wall which made
me hold my candle nearer, and persevere till I had made out the whole
sculpture. which gave me at last the impression of a bad dream. A
hopelesscloolting pig. with a bristling back. was in a boat, the stern of
which was towards the heavenly regions. Two monkeys were with
it, one at the bow, and the other whipping or driving the pig. This
was a wicked soul, sent back to earth under the conduct of the ants
of Thoth. The busy and gleeful look of the monkeys, and the urn-
bled aspect of the pig, were powerfully given. This was the lowest
state of the punished soul; but it would have to pass through some
very rnournful ones, and for a very long time,—to be probably s wolf, a
scorpion, or a kite, or some other odious creature. in weary stanceso
sion.—for a term of from three thousand to ten thousand years. This
was called passing through its “ orbit of necessity."

We now know enough of the outward state. and of the views and
expectations of a Pharosh, to understand the illustrations of his tomb.
He was a priest, and therefore informed of the secret speculations of
the wise upon the nature of the Divine Government and the destiny of
man. On account of both his civil and his ecclesiastical rank. he was
compelled to blazon forth his deeds and his expectations in rest pomp.
He has been laid in the chambers of the tomb with every unereal ob-
servance; and he has left on those walls illustrations of his faith which
the vulgar may take literally, or let alone as unintelligible, while to
priestly eyes they once told more than we shall now ever understand;
and through those of a Pythagoras spread a philosophy through the
world. so lofty as to command the praise at once of heathen. Jew and
Christian. Here. where the common eye, then as now. could see on]
a household of gods and nothing higher. Pythagoras could see, throng
these transparent shows of attributes, that there was, because there
must be, some vital centre, from whence they derived their existence.
While the vulgar saw only in the fate of the damned “ the circle of
necessity,” he saw it everywhere. believing that the ency of the cen-
tral unity was operative wholly through numbers,—-w ich are another

' Champollion, Lettrcs sur l‘Egypte. 1’ Bruce's, or the Harper's.
Page-182
180 amass Lin.

name for certainty. 'Where others saw painted the array of the Hours.
he perceived between each two the chain of Cause and Eﬂ'ect. Where
others saw altar ﬂames, he recognized the aspirations of the intellect.
Where others shrank from pictures of torture and dismemberment, he
calmly studied the conﬂicts of the intellect and soul. Where others
saw a range of mummy closets with folding doors, he gained ideas of
that succession of spheres through which the aspiring spirit has to pass,
before attaining the vital centre from which it came forth, and to which
it may. when worthy, return. Where the vulgar saw—what the priests
told them to see—“ an eternal' abode," to which the dead‘king had
come from " the inn” of his own palace,*—he knew that here the dust
would, sooner or later. retnm to dust. while the spirit had returned to
Him who had given it forth. Josephus says that Pythagoras was the
most eminent of the heathens for wisdom and piety; and believes that
he would have spoken more wisely still on the highest matters, if he
had been safe from the malice of the ignorant.—The testimony of
Herodotus is this :‘I’ “ These people,” the Egy tians, “ are the ﬁrst who
have advanced the doctrine that the soul 0 man is immortal: that,
when the body is dead, the soul enters always into that of some ani-
mal: and that, having thus passed successively into all kinds of terres-
trial. aquatic and aerial creatures, it returns into a human body. during
its act of birth: and that these different transmigrations take place in
the space of three thousand years. Iknow that some Greeks have
adopted this opinion,—some sooner, and some later; and that they
have made use of it as they thought proper. Their names are not
unknown to me; but I preserve silence upon them."

If this old traveler. at once so reserved and so garmlous, had spoken
'out here, the ﬁrst name doubtless, which he would have uttered, would
have been Pythagoras.

Among the many tombs open to us. we may choose one for a regu-
lar. however brief, examination. And the most attractive, without
question, to any reader whose interest in the subject has carried him
through this chapter, will be that discovered by Belzoni, about a quar-
ter of a century ago, whose occupant was Osirei, father_ of Ramases
the Great.

The neighboring peasants observed. about the beginning of the pre-
sent century. a sinking of the soil in one of the hill sides in the Valley
of the Tombs. They pointed this out to successive travelers; and
Belzoni happily looked into the matter. He found a tomb extending
320 feet into the hill; and how much more, there is no saying. as the
earth had fallen, and barred further progress. Its depth is great, as it
descends the whole way, sometimes by inclined planes, and sometimes
by staircases.

The ﬁrst thing we had to do was to plunge down a ﬂight of ruined
steps, to a perpendicular depth of 24 feet. This entrance was closed
up by masonry when Belzoni was brought to the spot. This staircase
landed us in a passage where the walls were covered with inscriptions

' Diodorus, I. 51. 1‘ Herod. IL 123.
Page-183
won or OIIRBI. 181

about Osirei; probably a copy of the eulogy and prayers read at his
funeral; as such a record was often inscribed near the entrance of a
tomb.—Next comes another staircase,,ont the walls of which are paint-
ed ﬁgures of genii which cannot be the Assessors, because they are not
forty-two; but thirty-seven on the one wall, and thirty-nine on the
other. They are very grotesque;.and one longs to know what they
mean. It is strange, and exceedingly agreeable, to feel that this long-
ing has more hope in it as the centuries pass. It appeared, a while
ago, to all eyes as it appears now to many, that Time buries the sources
of our knowledge as he goes, choking them up with his inexhaustible
sands, and making a dreary desert of the past. But what do we see
next? Here comes Speculation. on her tentative march, her divinin
rod in hand, indicating to her follower, laborious Science, where an
how to work; and lot out oozes the stream again,—scanty and thick
enough at ﬁrst, but sure to run fuller and clearer every day. See how
improved our prospects of Egyptian knowledge are since the days
when our Casur de Lion was besieging Acre! At that time, about 1190,
the learned physician of Bagdad. Abdallatif, was lecturIn at Cairo In
the excellent account of the Egypt of his day which he has left us, he
says, speaking of the Pyramids and other monuments which were be-
fore his eyes, “these blocks are completely covered with writing in
that ancient character, the import of which is wholly unknown at this
day. l have not met with any person, in all Egypt, who could say
that he knew. even by hearsay. of any one who understood this cha-
racter.” “Near these Pyramids, the remains of gigantic old ediﬁces,
and a great number of solidly constructed tombs are to be seen; and it
is rare to meet with any portion of these ruins which is not covered
with inscriptions in that ancient character which is wholly unknown at
this day." How delightful it must be to any Champollion, Rosellini,
Wilkinson or Lepsius of our century to read this passage! And how
encouraging it is to some of us who, by their labors, have looked with
some degree of intelligence upon the monumental records of Egypt, to
think that a future generation will probably see much more than we
do ;-—perhaps understanding the genii. and the other mysteries of this
tomb, nearly as well as if they had Pythagoras, or some more plain-
spoken old priest, for a guide.
No part of the illustrations of this tomb is more mysterious than
those of the second passage. Kneph, “the Spirit of the Supreme,
' which moves upon the face of the waters,”1’ has naturally a boat for
one of his emblems: the serpent is another. Phthah. his colleague in
the work of creation, is the patron of the occupant of this tomb; and
their symbols abound. In this second passage we ﬁnd the boats of
Kneph: and a curious series of descending planes. each with a door
upon it, which is supposed to ﬁgure Ihe descent to Hades ;—the Amenti.
or western region of the dead. We meet the serpent here in the shape
of the bier, which elsewhere is almost invariably lion-shaped. Here,

' Relation dc l’Egypte, par Abdallatif, Livre 1., Ch. IV.
1’ Wilkinson‘s Ancient Egyptians, IV. 236.
Page-184
182 asst-sax was.

the serpent has lion’s paws, instead of human feet, as usual. The
"justifying" goddess stands at the lower end of the descent.

We next come to a small chamber which almost any one but Belzoui
would have taken to be the extremity of the excavation. Its walls
were all painted, and it had every appearance of completeness: and a
deep pit in face of the entrance passage would have been concluded to
be the place of burial. This pit, however, was a well: and it was dug
there to draw of the waters which would otherwise injure. and which
since have injured, the interior chambers. Belzoni ﬁlled up this pit;
not knowing its purpose. He spied a hole in the wall, and, striking it,
found it sounded hollow. He and his companions brought a palm
trunk to bear on it, and battered it down; ﬁnding immediately that the
best part of this wonderful tunnel was before them.

In the chamber to which the pit belongs, the King Osirei is seen
making oﬂ'erings to Osiris, and to some less conspicuous deities. It is
in this chamber that an immeasurable serpent of considerable thickness,
winds round the walls in a curious and rather elegant involution: and
I think it is in the next that a serpent bier extends continuously round
nearly half the walls, bearing a series of prostrate mummies. In ano-
ther place, instead of mummies, the serpent supports human heads,—
the headless bodies in some cases remaining near, and in other cases,
being absent. The strangest use I saw made of the serpent in any old
monument was here. where it was double-headed, and wore the crowns
of the two Egypts,—Upper and Lower,—and had two pairs of human
legs, walking opposite ways,—a dove being perched in the bend of its
body. Sometimes the serpent is winged; and two, uniting their necks
to support a disk, wonderfully resembled a caduceus.—In one instance,
where an enormous serpent is carried by the gods, Champollion says
it is the great Apophis, enemy of the son, who is overcome and carried
away captive; a suggestion which the Greeks were not slow to adopt.
And it is impossible to look upon these representations of the serpent;
of the tree of life, of which those who ate were made as gods; of the
moving spirit of the Creator, and of the universally prevalent ideas of
the original spread of water; the separation of the land from the water;
the springing of vegetation, and the sudden appearance of animals on
the new surface; and the separation of the upper airinto regions of
abode, without seeing whence was derived the ﬁrst of the two accounts
of the creation given in the Book of Genesis;‘-—that in which, not
Jehovah, but the Elohim were engaged, who would be understood by
the Egyptian instructors of Moses to be Kneph and Phthah ;—the
Presiding Spirit, and the Forming Intellect of the Supreme. The other,
and very different, account? has little that is Egyptian in its character,
and was robably not learned at Heliopolis or Thebes.

In the all through the ﬁrst chamber is the curious group offour
kinda of people (four of each) which has excited so much speculation,
but which Champollion believed that he understood plainly enough.
Ra, the Sun, stands behind the sixteen ﬁgures, who are not captives,

' Genesis, 1.; IL 1, 2, 3. 1' Genesis, II. 4—25.
Page-185
Toll 0! Milli. 183

but dwellers under the sun—inhabitants of the earth. The general le-
gend declares them to be “ the inhabitants of Egypt, and those of foreign
countries.” Four are red, the Egyptian conventional complexion; and
their special legend is “the race of men; ” which savors of the conceit of
primitive patriotism. The next four have primrose-colored skins, and
are called “Namou,”—(“Asiatics.") The third set are altogether ne-

0, in complexion and feature; and they are called “N ahasi,"—

“Africans.") The fourth group are pale yellow again, and blue-eyed,
and dressed in barbaric fashion, with feathers in their hair, ’but with long
ﬂowing robes. These are inscribed “Tamhou,” which Champol-
lion believed to designate a northern people, and probably Europeane.‘
The rest of this hall is chieﬂy occupied by the reception of the departed
king by the gods. ~

Next we come to. an unﬁnished chamber. where the drawings are
made for sculptures which have never been wrought. Here are the

, bold and free outlines which we cannot but admire now; outlines which
were corrected where faulty by the master hand with its red chalk pencil,
coming aﬁer the pupil with his black one. In one ﬁgure the arm was
made too long; and the rectiﬁcation by‘the master—the red outline over
the black, stands as light, fresh, and no doubt eﬁ‘aceable, as in the hour
when it was made,—before the Great Ramases was born, or in his
childhood.

Then comes another staircase, and then more passages. with their
ceremonial paintings: and, at length, the great hall—which yet is not
the most interesting of these chambers of the grave. The most remark.
able thing in it that meets the eye is the picture of the states through
which the soul has to pass, after leaving the lower hemisphere,and enter-
ing upon the abodes of the sun. Of these abodes there are twelve, each
shown by a door valve, diselosinga mummy, and guarded by aserpent.
Each serpent has a name; and all have the legend,‘l’ “ It dwells above this
great door, and opens it to the god Sun." One beautiful illustration is
of the connection of the deceased with time. The mummy stands with
a chain round his neck, which is held by a procession of twenty-four
ﬁgures, each with a star over its head. These are the Hours; and in
another tomb I saw the same company, telling the season of the year
by their appearance; those betokening the night being dark, and stand-
ing near together; those betokening the day being lighter, and further
apart. If Champollion reads the legends of these spheres and spirits
in the tombs aright, we have some light as to the expectations of these
ancient worshipers. He translates thus, about the inhabitants of two
series of abodes: “ These hostile souls see not our god when he casts
the rays from his disk: they no longer dwell in the terrestrial world;
and they hear not the voice of the great god when he traverses their
zones." “ These have found grace in the eyes of the great god. They
dwell in the abodes of glory; those in which the heavenly life is led.
The bodies which they have abandoned will repose for ever in their
tombs, while they will enjoy the presence of the Supreme God.”1

' Champollion's Lettres sur t’Egypte. 1* Ibid. 1 Ibid.
Page-186
184 annals am.

In the side chambers are devices yet waiting for their'interpretation:
—-ﬂames.heads and headless bodies, men bound, or standing feel upper-
most, or lying on their backs—or with their heads just leaving their
shoulders; with the scarabreus in the boat, and other animal symbols
which show that these are not, as some have hastily supposed. human
sacriﬁces. (which did not make a part of Egyptian worship,) but were
probably a symbolical representation of the process of initiation into
the priestly mysteries.

The sarcophagus chamber is wonderfully ﬁne. After exploring it as
well as we could with the lights we carried—picking out the devices on
the walls, but discerning nothing of the vaulted ceiling at the end where
the sarcophagus stood, we enjoyed seeing the whole lighted up by a ﬁre
of straw. I never shall forget that gorgeous chamber in this palace of
death. The rich colors on the wall, (especially the profusion of deep
red.) were brought out by the ﬂame; and the wonderful ceiling whose
black vault was all starred with emblems, and peopled with lines of
yellow ﬁgures—countless, in two vast regiments—this waslike nothing
earthly. And it is like nothing on the earth. These starry emblems
are what has been called the Zodiac. I should not have discovered or
supposed them to bear that meaning: but Champollion, who knew
more than anybody else about such things, offers his readings of old
Egyptian almanacks—quotiug the testimony of Diodorus about “the
gilded circle of Osymandyas. which gave the hours of the rising of the
constellations, with the inﬂuences of each.” Champollion gives us
some of these inﬂuences :—as, “Orion inﬂuences the left ear. 1st
hour: Orion inﬂuences the left arm. 2d hour: Sirius inﬂuences the
heart," and so on.‘ Payne Knight says? that Astrology is not ex-
pressly mentioned among the pursuits of the ancient Egyptians; but
that their creed certainly admitted the principle on which it is founded;
—that is, necessity—a derivation of all destinies from the original im-
pulse given by an immutable Creator.

Beyond the sarcophagus chamber. the excavation still descends, by
staircases and passages, till the mass of earth, fallen from above, bars
further progress.

Such are the places where, as Isaiah says, “the Kings of the nations,
even all of them, lie in glory, each in his own house,” (Is. xiv. 18,)
and such are the regions supposed by him to be moved at the approach
of the tyrant, and to stir up their dead to meet him who has become
as weak as they, and must now be brother of the worm, and be brought
down to Hades, to the sides of the pin—From Egypt, this method of
burial spread far over the east; and the caverns of the hills contained
the successive generations of many people, besides the Hebrews, who
had, in their civilization, followed the ideas and methods of Egypt.
Happily for the human race, the ideas spread with the forms. After
the example of Egypt, men preserved, amidst more or less corruption.
the belief in One Supreme God; in a Divine Moral Government; in a

‘ Lettres sur I'Egypte.
1' Payne Knight's “ Inquiry into the Symbolical Language," 8:0.
Page-187
Tons. 185

future life and retribution; and in the greatest of all truths, that moral
good is the highest good, and moral evil the deepest evil. From the
lips of this thoughtful people it was that infant nations learned, through
along course of centuries, whatever they held that was most noble,
concerning the origin and tendencies of things, and what was most to
be desired for the race of man at large, and the soul of every individual
man. Many things remained to be learned; and many needed to be
uulearned. We ﬁnd much that was barbaric. coarse, ignorant, and
untrue: but the wonder is at the amount of insight. achievement and
truth. The ground gained by the human mind was never lost; for out
of this Valley of the Nile issued Judaism: and out of Judaism issued,
in due time, Christianity.

CHAPTER XVI.

THEBm—TOMBSPMUMMIES.—MEDEENET HABOO.—DAYR EL
BAHREE.—ELKARNAC. '

We passed the working hours of several days among the tombs;
and my journal has copious accounts of them : but, remembering how
much sooner one wesries of reading of such places than of seeing them,
I will say little about them.
/‘ One of the most celebrated is the Harpers’ Tomb. ﬁrst mentioned

by Bruce, and. therefore. often called by his name. This is the work
of two of the Ramases: and a vast work it is,—extending 405 feet into
the hill. The entrance passages have small chambers on either hand,
whose walls present us with capital pictures of ancient Egyptian life.
The kitchen comes ﬁrst,-—on the left hand side: and there the servants
are kneading bread. and carrying to the oven cakes sprinkled with
black seeds: and others are making broth, and pastry; and some are
drawing of? liquor with a syphon; and others slaughtering cattle, and
preparing the joints for the cook. Some of the beef is to be boiled,—
the joints being put into caldrons over the ﬁre: and an assistant is
pounding something in a mortar; and there is a meat-safe, suspended
from the ceiling—The other chambers have boats, furniture, arms,
gardens and a ﬁsh-pond; fowls, ﬁelds and their produce; and so forth.
The standards are striking. They bear the hawk. the fox, the ibis,
die. The blade part of the arms is painted blue, which seems toshow
that they were of steel.—The furniture is so elegang—the couches,
fauteuils, hangings, vases, baskets and lamps,—that it could hardly be
surpassed in Greece or Rome at any time. or in Paris and London
now. It is very strange to look upon these evidences of in-door
luxury. and then to turn to the pictures of savage warfare on the pro-
pyla of the palaces. And yet it is only what one knows to be hap-
pening even now. within the limits of Christendom. No luxury on
earth can exceed that of many houses in New York: and at this mo-
ment, while some ladies are passing their days in the midst of it, their
Page-188
186 mm“ 1.11:.

husbands are shooting down the Mexicans with a hatred as cordial as
any Ramases ever felt for his southern or eastern foes. And if we
ourselves have not outgrown warfare, (and it is too soon to declare
that we have,) we may present the same humiliating spectacle to the
antiquarians of a future age. Our warfare will not be so savage as
that of these old heathcns; but it will be far more shameful, inasmuch
as we call ourselves Christians.

Among the ﬁgures in‘this tomb are two harpers playing before the
god A0, or Hercules. They are clothed in white garments, striped
with red: and their harps have each ten strings. Some preceding tra-
velers have declared these harpers to be blind; but there is now too
much defacement about the heads to permit this to be seen.

The most striking device I observed in this tomb (unless indeed it
be the piggish soul returning to earth in charge of the monkeys), was
one which related to the death of the occupant of the tomb. The
funereal boat is drawn by men who are at a loss about passing the
bridge before them. The steep, angular bridge intercepts the rope;
but the scarabaaus stopps to help. By its hind legs it hangs to the
heaven; while, with its foreclavfs it pulls up the rope. allowing the
hearse to pass. In this position the scarabieus signiﬁes the resur-
rection.

Each of the small apartments having a closed pit, Sir G. Wilkinson
supposes‘ that each was the burial-place of that oﬂicer of the royal
household whose function 1s illustrated on the walls :—as the cook, the
armor-bearer, the gardener, doc. This appears very probable.

In the tomb of the Pharaoh who reigned (it is thought) In rig ht of
his wife Taosiri. there is a vaulted chamber 1n which we could gonly
grope till our dragoman lighted a ﬁre of straw. Its blaze showed us a
most striking device, representing the king in his former and present
state of being. In the upper hemisphere is the sun, and a living man.
Then there 1a the scarabteus. head downwards, representing, as before,
the resurrection or immortality which connects the two lives of earth
and heaven. Beneath is the moon, above the funereal altar, where Isis
attends with her protecting wings, and mourners are ranged,-—the whole
group being inclosed by a half-circle of human-headed birds.

The tomb of Osirei Il. is remarkable for being in great part unﬁn-
ished, though begun with great care and pains. This condition is at
once a proof and a consequence of the shortness of his reign. This
tomb is remarkably clear and bright looking: but the ﬁgures become
barer and barer as we proceed.—one sort of lines of illustration after
another failing, till we come to blank walls. The sarcophagus cham-
ber is quite rough and rude: but the sculptured ﬁgure of the king on
the lid of the sarcophagus is ﬁne,—being in relief to the height of nine
inches.

The priests took care to preserve their grandeur and rank after death.
Their tombs are found where the rock is of the most compact quality,
ﬁt to bear extensive excavations, while inferior people must ﬁnd a place

' Modern Egypt and Thebes, II. 209.
Page-189
false. 187

where there is more danger of the soil crumbling. We went as far as
heat and bats would let us in a priestly tomb which occupies an acre
and a quarter of the heart of the rock. The great man who occupied
it left other tokens of his wealth; but none could be more striking than
this. There is an extraordinary array of niches. pillars and pits: but
the covering of almost the whole of the walls with small hieroglyphic
writing is the crowning wonder. Will no one go and read ‘this great
volume of Egyptian ecclesiastical history ?

// The tomb of the Pharaoh who pursued the Hebrews to the Red Sea.
is extremely interesting. There are ﬁve lines of tribute-bearers—black,
red, light red, and yellow—showing how extensive was his dominit’m.
The people of “ Pount" bring ivory. apes. leopards, and other tropical
Wealth. The next bring valuables‘of an ornamental kind which they
declare to be “ chosen offerings of the chiefs of the gentiles of Kufa.”'
Next come Ethiopians, “ gentiles of the south." with African gifts of
beasts, skins and gold. Then come the whites,—red-haired.—dressed
in white garments with a blue burden—arms covered (Sir G. Wilkin-
son saw gloves, but I did not). and bringing, among other oti'erings, a
bear. These must be northern people. surely ;—-and at the time of the
Exodus! Their wives follow with the other women who are collected
in the rear; and they are dressed in long gowns which have three
ﬂouncea. If our upholsterers might study in these tombs, so, it ap-
pears, might our dress-makers.

This is the tomb which exhibits to us the Egyptian trades. which it
is so interesting to understand. When one looks at the brick-making,
one thinks of the Hebrews who were just effecting their escape from
that 'eqioyment. [ will abstain from details which may be found

full givi- elsewhere. mentioning only. as curious. the bellows, the in-
h joining‘of wood of different colors with glue, the stone-cut-
‘ﬂ’nd, above all, the carving of the Sphinx. and of two colossal
es, which some suppose to be the Vocal Statue. and the Kernel:
iossus. The men are at work on stages, chipping away at the
mighty monster, the Sphinx. which here looks as calm and cheerful as
afterwards in its own person, among the sands. Such of these tombs
as are simple tunnels are airy and lofty. The roof of this one rises
’towards the inner end,—no one knows why; for the eﬁ'ect is not good
in any way. In the sporting tomb we see how the Egyptians excelled
in the painting of animals. The animation of action here. and generally
where brutes are presented, shows that the stiffness and monotony of
their human images were from choice. and not from incapacity for
other methods. The animation of their warrior ﬁgures indeed shows
the same thing.

We visited, of course, the tombs of the Queens. and explored two. as
far as decay and the blackening of the walls would permit. The do-
minions of these ancient ladies were indicated by masses of red and
yellow rock, with large black birds perched upon them. The com-
plexions are somewhat. strange and perplexing. The yellow prevails,

r

    
 
  

' Wilkinson‘s Modern Egypt and Thebes, II. 235.
Page-190
188 means use.

0
it being the sign of feminine subjects; but we ﬁnd pink and blue faces
also. The blue is probably appropriated. as elsewhere, to individuals
of the priestly caste. Emblematical animals abound here, and a row
of apes. not bareheaded, was so astonishingly like a set of Christian
judges as to send us into a ﬁt of most profane laughter. These queenly
tombs are in a desolate mountain hollow, with rocks towering over-
head :—-,a ﬁt place for hiding away the pomps and vanities of the world.

We much enjoyed exploring two recently opened tombs ;-—one dis-
covered about ﬁve years ago; the other only a few months before; and
by Lepsius. Of the ﬁrst of these we thought high] ,—not only from
the good execution of the animals, and the ﬁne effect 0 a phalanx of men,
but because the faces of homage and supplication were admirably given.
The colors were very gay, where not spoiled by smoke. The gayest
of all was the tomb opened by Lepsius. No picture in this year’s ex.
hibition could be brighter. And the stucco was smooth, and the out-
lines clear as on the day when it was closed. The ﬁgures were all
women. I believe, in ﬂowing garments of white striped with red. As
for the ﬁnish of the painting, I observed an ibis which, while duly spi-
rited as a whole, had every feather separately painted, in light gray
outlines upon dark gray ground. This was more like a daguerreotype
picture than any other work of art I ever saw.

After visiting so many repositories of the dead where every resource
had been used to make them secure, and ample and sumptuous, it was
strange to pass by spots where the common people of those old days
were laid away. It was a doctrine of this ancient nation that all
Egyptians were noble: and they applied this so far as to consider every
one who was virtuous enough entitled to cross the dark water. and to
be laid in the sacred soil of the death region; just as we declare that
all men are equal in the presence of God,—that he has no respect of
persons, and that in his ﬁeld, the rich and poor lie down together. But
as, with us, the rites ofa pauper funeral differ from those of a princely
one; as in the United States, the dark-skinned children of God are laid
apart from the whites, so here in this metropolis of heathendom, did
human weakness come in to mock the profession which human reason
had made. Not far from the royal valley of death are pits—hardly to
be called catacombs. where undistingoished mummies were laid. One
day, our attendants. always on the watch for treasure of one sort or
another, saw something which induced them to poke and dig; and
next ensued the extraordinary sight of disinterring mummies. These
bodies had probably been searched before for valuables; but they had
been buried away with some care, and probably for a long time; for it
was no easy matter to disengage them from the soil. We partly un-
rolled two: and even ventured upon removing the bituminous mask
which covered the face. which came away, bearing the impression of
not uncomely features.

While we were ﬁngering the curly brown hair of one of these mum-
mies, our dragoman cooly wrenched off the head, the throat giving way
like a fold of rotten leather. I never remember so strange a sensation
as in seeing this; but the thing was done before we could stop it.—
Page-191
mu. . 189

People on the spot have no notion of reverence for these remains.
Travelers who were at Thebes in 1827 tell us how' all the ﬁres wanted
by themselves and their attendants were made of the sycamore wood
of the mummy-casesK'Abdallatif‘ tells us how, in his time (the 12th
century) the country people stripped the mummies of whatever .was of
substance sufﬁcient to make garments; and sold the rags of the mom-
my cloth to the paper-makers, to make paper for the use of the grocers.
He speaks of some of the sycamore wood being then rotten; but some
sound, and ﬁt for use.——One extraordinary variety of burial he tells us
of, on the word of one on whom he could rely. This friend of his
was once searching for treasure with some companions, in the tombs
at Geezeh, when they came upon a jar carefully sealed. They opened
it, found it contained honey, and began to eat. Presently one of
the party perceived a hair sticking to his ﬁnger. Drawing it out. he
found it belonged to the body of an infant which was preserved in the
honey. The body was in good condition, and adorned with jewels
and rich ornaments. ‘7 , -

What care to preserve the earthy frame! and with what a result!
The three thousand years of purgatory of many of these Theban
sleepers is now~about expiring. If their faith was a true one, and they
are now returning to resume their bodies. and begin a new cycle. in
what a state will they ﬁnd their sum tuous death-chambers, and their
hundred—gated metropolis! Their skulls, stained with bitumen, and
indented with the creases of the bandages, are carried away; one to
Russia, another to America; one is in a royal palace—another in a
Mechanics’ Museum z—their coﬂins are burnt to make an English
lady’s tea ; their care-cloths are made into paper to wrap up an Arab's
tobacco. The spices and unguents were taken from their brains and
chests hundreds of years ago, to be melted down, and serve for some
other perfnming and embalming.—These things may appear less grave
and pathetic at home than on the spot: for mummies are little more
respected in Europe than by the ignorant Arabs who pull them up and
to pieces, for sale and use. Something is perhaps owing to the name;
and something to the dollish oddity of their appearance; but. in its
proper place. there is great dignity about a mummy. Reposing in its
recess or painted chamber, and bearing the marks of allegiance to Osi-
ris; and of acceptance by him, there is something as solemn in its as-
pect as in that of any coﬂin in an English vault: and this solemnity is
not lessened by the thought that in that still breast and sleeping head
beat the' heart, and wrought the ideas of three thousand years ago.
This black pal] of oblivion hanging over all gives one. though a mere
stranger, something of the mourner feeling which is one of the privi-
leges of the speculative, when bringing speculation to bear on the ob-
literated past, instead of the unrevealed future.

We had an opportunity of seeing how different is the interment of
the present inhabitants of the country from that of the old. 0f old,
seventy-two days intervened between the death and the burial. Here

a Ahdallatif. Relation de l’Egypte, Livre I. Ch. IV
Page-192
no ass-realm.

itwashardly moremiiiutss. Awoman in the village near onrhoat
died atoneo';cloek and before ﬁve, we met the funeral procession.
The howl here answers perhaps to the throwing dust on the head.
that we see in the sculptures. Both appear painfully barbarous. a
all strong outward expressions of grief must erer be.—Wc learned
that. wood being scarce, there was no coﬂin; but that the woman was
buried in new clothes; and that stones would be laid over the grave.
so as to secure it perfectly.

On the 23d, we went to Medeenet Hahoo. including the great pn-
lace temple of Raniasos Ill... and some older buildings. which I will
deny myself the pleasure of dwelling on. I must speak presently of
Kamac, which is still grander; andmg I cannot hope that my readers can
enter much into the feelings with which Egyp tian petravelers regard these
vast monuments. I ﬁnd in my journal this remark, which here occurs:
—“ it is diﬂicult to assign the grounds of the knowledge one gains in
these places of the people who lived in them: but it really amounts to
much." I must remember that it is diﬁcnlt to assign the grounds of
knowledge, and to convey the impressions received of the living and

moving existence of these people, and not carrymy readers through
too many of those scenes which can be vitriﬁed only by the inhabiting
spirit of the spot. I will mention only two or three peculiarities of
this pile of ediﬁces.

0n the wall of the Pavilion of Raniases, we see him among his
attendant ladies. He is seated; they are standing. Some are offering
ﬂowers; others waving fans; and one is his partner at that game re.
sembling dranghts which is painted on older walls than these ;—in the
caves at Bones Hasan. There is a board with pieces resembling pins
or pegs; and the lady I hand is on one which she is about to move.

In another place, we have the coronation , avery grand aﬂ'air. The
king is on his canopicd throne or shrine, which is borne by twelve
princes. his sons. A great procession follows. of princes. priests. sol~
diets, and various otlicial personages. A scribep is reading from a
scroll; the High-p riesthurns incense; and the band makes music.—
Further on. the king presents offerings to his god ;—and the queen
looks on from one side. Some of the priestly order bear the statues
of the king's ancestors, and a crowd of standards. The hieroglyphic
legends tell us that the king has put on the crown of the Upper and
Lower countries»: and birds are set free.—carrier-pigeons,—to convey
the news to the gods of the north. south, east and west. This last
was a pretty discovery of Champollion’s. Then comes a long invo-
cation, which is written on the wall, above the ﬁgure of the reading
priest. The ki has cut six ears of corn with a sickle; and these are
oﬂ’ered to the go by a priesL—They had grand coronations in those
days, it is clear.

The war-pictures are very spirited; and, in some respects. very
barbarous. There are heaps of severed hands, which the scribes are
numbering and noting , each heap being marked 3000. On the outer
walls are heaps of tongues, also numbered. We are told that the rows
of captives contain one thousand in each line—We have, on the outer
Page-193
unalm naeoo. 191:

walls, a naval conﬂict, for the ﬁrst timer-supposed to have taken place
on some Asiatic inland sea. as the enemy appears to be of Asiatic race.
The Egyptian galleys are distinguished from those of a foe by a lion’s
head at the prow. One pretty scene in this foreign country is where
the king is attacked by lions, which he kills and puts to ﬂighy—in a
marsh—We have also besieged towns. where the children are lifted 1n
over the ramparts. for safety, and the besiegers fell trees in the neigh-
boring woods. Then we have triumphs, captives, approving gods,&.c. .,
as in other places. but with much grandeur. —- The predominant impres-
sion on one’ s mind here, as in so many other monumental areas in
Egypt, 1s of the interest to us now of that early stage of the human
mind which united with its barbaric aims and pursuits such serene
and abstract conceptions of deity, and such a subordination of the
present life to the future. Here we have the king and all human
bengs in intense action, in thesPhysical Force stage of civilization.
while the gods remain the same imperturbable abstractions thatzwe
ever ﬁnd them; and the preparation of the tombs is an object of even
. more interest to men than the prosecution of their wars. It is curious,
and very instructive to see how an age appropriated to the supremacy
of Force was no less distinguished by Faith in abstractions.

When Thebes had so far declined as to become a mere collection
of villages in the plain, the Christians took possession of Medeenet
Haboo, plastering over the sculptures with mud, putting up an altar
at the east end of the temple, introducing their little red columns and
low roofs among the messy and gorgeous pillars of the heathen courts;
and even defacing the architravea to admit their rafters. Their priests
took possession of the small apartments of the temple; and their'people
built mud‘houses within the precincts. 0n the approach of the Arabs,
a. Christians ﬂed to lean; and here lie their remains, scattered among
the outstanding glories of an older time.—I have said how the Christian
emotions and paintings appeared to us. It may be interesting to know
how they appeared to our predecessor in this journey,—-the Bagdad
physician who saw these places when the crusaders were warrin with
his faith In Syria. If we remember that he speaks of the Cap tie Chris-
tians of between six and seven centuries ago, we shall not pbe apt to;
take oﬁ'enec, as at an attack on the Christianity of our countryp and
our time. We do not pique ourselves on a fellowship with the Coptic
Christians of the 12th century in their country settlements.

Abdallatil'says, after extolling the grandeur and beauty of the Egyptian
sculptures, “ The children of Israel, having been witness of the homage
which the Egyptians rendered to these idols, of the profound veneration'
which they entertained for them. and of the zeal with which they won-
shiped them, became accustomed. during their long abode among this
man. to see these superstitious ceremonies; and having found in Syria
in people delivered over in the same manner to the worship of idols,

ssqntred of Moses that he should give them such gods as these people
had: which drew forth from Moses this reproach, You are a foolish
nation. The greater number of Christians, being either Egyptians or
Sabeans, have retained the propensities belonging to their origin, and
Page-194
192 Issues urn.

have suffered themselves to slide easily into the ancient habits of their
forefathersz—in consequence, they have admitted images into their
churches, and into the temples appropriated to the exercise of their
worship. They have even pushed matters to an extreme: they have
in many ways improved upon the existing abuses of this custom, and
have carried their fully so far as to pretend to represent the god whom
they adore surrounded by angels. All this was merely a remnant of
the customs of their ancestors which had been preserved among them;
with this difference. however: that their ancestors, far from representing
the deity under any form, had too exalted an idea of him to imagine
that He could be apprehended by the sense, or comprehended by the
understanding. That which has drawn the Christians into these ex-
cesses. and which has emboldened them to adopt such a custom. is
the dogma which they profess of the divinity of a creature.—-All this,”
the sober Mohammedan goes on to say. “ we have discussed with care
in the treatise which we have composed against the Christians."'—No
enlightened person, of any faith, could help sympathizing with Abdallatif
while in sight of the profane daubs which the Christians have left among
the sculptures, and which seem put there to give every advantage to the
old heathens. They have something of the eﬂ'ect of the ritual of the
Greek church. which makes our most religious countrymen feel, in
Asia Minor, that theyhad rather, in case of need, turn Mohammedan
than enter it.

Near Medeenet Haboo is an expanse of sunk soil, with alluvial deposits
round its edgesI which Sir G. Wilkinson believes to have contained the
Lake of the Dead, over which the body must be ferried to its tombs?

Passing over the other ediﬁces on the western bank. I will mention
only that on the last day of our abode on this side, we visited the very
old temple called Dayr el Bahree. or “the Northern Convent;” so
called from its having been appropriated by the Christians for a church
and monastery. It is gloriously situated; in the great central perpen-
dicular rock ;—exeavated in the mountain itself; and once approached
by an ascending dromos of great length, and between rows of sphinxel.
with pylons and obelisks at intervals, and a succession of terraces at
last. This temple is quite unlike any other; and few are more im-
pressive. The crude brick arches of ancient date which are found in
many places prove that the Egyptians were acquainted with the princi-
ple of the arch ; yet here the vaulted chambers showed roofs composed
of courses of stone, laid on ﬂat, and hollowed into an arch afterwards.
Some bits of walls and curious corners had been recently laid open to
view,—-their paintings as vivid as ever. On one wall from which the
sand had been shoveled away, we found a splendid lotus plant. on
which was a nest of water birds, bending the budded stem which sup-
ported it. Arabbit had attacked the young birds: 3 dog was attacking
the rabbit, and an ibis the dog. On another part of the plant were a
tilzard and two yellow butterﬂies: and two human hands were plucking

ossoms.

' Abdallatif. Relation de l’ Egypte, Livre I. Ch. W.
1‘ Wilkinson's Modern Egypt and Thebes, II. 187.
Page-195
xL-xsmnc. 193

This was, as I said, our last day on the western shore. Our guides
knew this; and I fancied that my open-faced and obliging donkey-boy
felt sorry to part; as I truly did. There could be no exchange of senti-
ment. however; for the only language we had in common consisted of
two words, which we found enough to signify our pleasure by. and that
was all. “Bono” and “non bone” was our whole discourse. But
my guide‘s face and close service on this last day seemed to say more.
He understood my wish to go once more to the Ramaséum,and look about
me when there ;—to go once more to the Colossi, and ride round them
once and again. He put my donkey to its best canter, that I might ac-
complish all this. I turned a grateful face upon him. and said “ Bono :”
and his answer was. with a wise nod. and holding out his hand, “ La,
la,-—bono baksheesh ! " He little knew how he had spoiled everything
by that one worii.—whatI might have given him, in cash and character,
but for that act of begging at such a moment.

We crossed to the El-Uksur side in the dusk of the evening, and
looked forward to spending the next two days in the most magniﬁcent
spot in Egypt—among the ruins of El-Karuac. .

The 25th was cloudy;-—our ﬁrst cloudy day in Africa. I was sur-
prised to see how the whole landscape, and especially the ruins, suffered
by the absence of light. shadow and vivid tint. It was very well to
become aware of this; but one would rather it had happened elsewhere.
We had planned to ride over in the evening, to see El-Karnac by moon-
light; but in the evening, the whole sky was gray. We had not, all
this day, one single gleam from sun or moon. We had made such a
survey of the ruins, however, as prepared us for a thorough exploring
the next day.

On the 26th, the sky was still dull when I looked out; but as [was
taking my early walk on the shore, some lustrous gleams touched upon
the points of the western mountains, and at length illumined the whole
shore, and stole over the river towards us. Before breakfast, we visited
ﬁrst a stnﬁ'ed crocodile which was oﬂ'ered for sale. It was a hideous
creature; but 1 was glad to have an opportunity for a safe study of it.
Then we went down to our old kandjia of the cataracts. which hadjust
arrived with a cargo of slaves for lbraheem Pasha’s hareem. The girls
looked as earnest and content as they always do while makin cakes,
Nubian fashion: but the ofﬁcer who had charge of them and t e boys
carried a little whip.

After breakfast, we rode away to El-Karnac. the sun coming out, but
the wind rising so as to cover us with dust, and render the examination
of the external sculptures less easy than we could have wished. '

The road from El-Uksur to El-Karnac once lay. as everybody knows,
between sphinxes, standing six feet apart, fora mile and ahalf. Those
which remain, headless. encumbered. and extending only a quarter of
a mile, are still very imposing. Then come pylons, propyla, halls,
obelisks, temples, groves of columns, and masses of ruins, oppressive to
see, and much more to remember. I think I must say nothing about
them. They must be sacred to the eyes that see them; I mean, incapa-
ble to be communicated to any others. Those that have not seen El-

18
Page-196
194 net-nit 1.an.

Kamae know nearly as much as can be told when they remember that
here are the largest buildings, and the most extensive ruins in the known
world: and that the great hall is 329 feet by 170. and 85 feet high,
containing 134 columns, the 12 central ones of which are 12 feet in
diameter, and the others not much smaller; the whole of this forest of
columns being gay with colors, and studded with sculptures. Of this
hall the central roof is gone, and part of the lateral covering. The
columns are falling, and at an accelerated rate. There is saltpetre in
the stone; and the occasional (lamps from the ground cause the cone.
sion of these mighty masses near the bases. They fall, one by one;
and these leaning wrecks, propped up by some accident which must
give way, have a very mournful aspect. We cannot but look forward
to the successive fall of these incomparable pillars, as to that of the trees
of a forest undermined by springs. These will sink under a waste of
sand. as those into the swamp. to be perhaps found again after thou-
sands of years, and traced out curiously,—a fossil forest of the mind.

Nothing was more striking to us than the evidences of the earthquake.
to which, and not only to Cambyses and Ptolemy Lathyrus, we attri-
bute the overthrow of gigantic columnsin the area, colossal statues. and
mountainous masses of the propyla. If, perplexed by the magnitude
of Egyptian achievement altogether, we give up the point whether
means existed for the overthrow of such masses, there still remains the
question how huge columns could fall straight, so as to be shattered in
regular order, by any means but such a shaking of the earth as art can-
not be conceived to produce.

One curious incident I must mention. A stone has fallen out. in
more than one place. from the wall of the old Pharaonic ropyla; and
looking in at the holes, I saw sculptured and painted blocks, built into
the interior;—remnants of a still earlier time, used as material. These
propyla were standing before Moses was born. The great hall was

uilt by Osirei, the occupant of the magniﬁcent tomb I have described.
But the original buildings of El-Karnac are of a date beyond our ken.
The earliest portions now remaining are a hundred years older than
any other ediﬁces in Thebes.—I have before mentioned that the only
known allusion to the Jews in the monuments of E pt is on the walls
of El-Karnac. The conqueror Sheshonk (Shishak holds by the hair
a group of captives, whose race is determined, not only by the face, but
by the cities of Judah being named among the array of tributaries.

The ﬁnest view I obtained of the El—Karnac ruins was from a mound
just above the lake. To the left lay the blue lake,—a sheet of still
water, fed by the Nile through the soil, but too salt now for use. Re-
mains of qua s and baths made this look as ancient and forlorn as any
other part. 0 the right lay the somewhat dreary plain which extends
between the ruins and the river. Before me, ﬁlling a circuit of a mile
and a half, lay the ruins; obelisks peeping over rooﬂess temples;
statues seen through rows of columns; pylons standing ﬁrm like out-
posts. while within there is now nothing but wreck to guard: and all
around, wherever we could look or set foot, were mute mourners over
Page-197
III-nurse. 105

the desolations of time.—shattered inscriptions, defaced pictures, use-
less blocks, and unintelligible fragments.

The ﬁnest view I obtained from the ruins was from the top of the
mound heaped up against the face of the propyla which front the river.
Here I could command the plain of tufty coarse grass, strewn with
stone, and varied with palm-clumps: and the remains of the‘avenue of
smaller aphinxes, which used to extend to the landing-place on this
side: then the platform above the quay: then the river; and beyond it
the western plain, with its precipitous mountain boundary, now drest
in rainbow hues. The temple at El-Kurneh was hidden by a palm-
clump but the Ramaséum, with its wrecked propyla, stood out ydistinct:
and the recess of the Day r el Behree was traceable; and the group at
Medeenet Haboo; and. best of all, the Pair were sitting in the bright
sunl Ight, above. because far beyond, the dark screen of palm groves
which hid the modern village. This was my last view of them; and
in my parting yearning, I thought it the best. How inexplicable is the
distinctness with which some images impress themselves upon the
memorial faculty! I did not see them more distinctly in that African
sunshine than I see them now.

The ﬁnest impression. or the most memorable, which we obtained
of El-Karnac was derived from our moonlight visit, that last evening.
There Is no questioning of any style of art. if only massive, when its
results are seen by moonlight. Then. spaces and distances become
what the mind desiderates: and drawbacks are lost in shade. Here,
the mournful piles of fragments were turned into masses of shade; and
the barbaric coloring disappeared. Some capricious, but exquisite
lights were let in through crevices in the roof and walls of the side
chambers. Then, there were the falling columns and their shadows in
the great hall. and the long vistas ending in ruins; and the profound
silence in this shadowy place, striking upon the heart. In the depth
of this stillness, when no one moved or spoke, the shadow of an eagle
on the wing above fell upon the moonlit aisle, and skimmed its whole
length.

It was Mth heavy hearts. and little inclination to speak that we
turned, on our way home, to take a last view of the py ylons of Karmic.
The moonlit plain lay, with the river in its midst. within the girdle of
mountains. Here was enthroned the human intellect when humanity
was elsewhere scarcely emerging from chaos. And how was it now?
That morning, I had seen the Governor of Thebes, crouching on his
haunches on the ﬁlthy shore among the dung heaps, feeding himself
with his ﬁngers, among a circle of apish creatures like himself.

The next morning,l was glad we were off. I had had as much as,
without more knowledge, lcould well bear: and it was a delightful
holiday to be sitting on deck, reading. and looking at shadoofs and
mountains. and wheat and lupins, as we did a month ago.
Page-198
196 nan-lair ml.

CHAPTER XVII.

MANUFACTURES AT KENNEH.—MANNERS OF THE CREW.—EXCUR-
SION T0 ABYDUS.

Wa escaped the dreaded dining with the old consul at Kenneh. He
invited us, when the gentlemen ca led for their letters; but they pleaded
business. The old gentleman then begged our empty bottles of our
dragoman, and was made quite happy by them. The cotton manufac-
tory at Kenneh appeared to the gentlemen better than that at Isna.
which certainly struck me as the poorest attempt at a manufacture I
had ever seen. The machinery there was English, but kept in bad
order. It was worked by horse power; and the horses were in poor
plight. The thread produced was uneven, and the woven fabric there-
fore of indifferent quality. from so much of the machinery being worked
by hand. One might say that this was as much as could be expected
from a factory on the other side of Thebes: but then, what beautiful
fabrics the old Thebans wore! and of their own manufacture. And
what luxuries they brought into their homes,by exporting their woolen
and cotton goods !—At this Kenneh factory, ﬁve hundred people were
employed. at wages varying. according to their qualiﬁcations, from 100
piastres (11.) per month, with food, to 50‘and 30 piastres. The ma-
chinery here was superior to that at Isna; the thread more even; and
the woven fabric therefore better.

I have before mentioned the Kenneh pottery. and the wide demand
for it. As much as possible is still donebby hand. There is no mould

, for the inside. The jar is formed on the ancient potter’s wheel; and
a piece of copper is used to give the external form. and to mark the
outside with the curious scratches which adorn the Kenneh jars. Of
course, it is a rare thing to see a jar which stands quite straight, or is
not out of shape, one way or another. A man can make one hundred
per day of the porous water bottles in common use.

There is a question among students of E yptian history about some
military passes; and a consequent desire winow from those who have
been up the NileI where the mountains approach the river so closely as
to make it difﬁcult for armies to pass. Of course, everything must de-
pend upon the season. But, at the season of our voyage, I should say
there was no part of the shore where an army could not pass on the
one side of the river or the other: and it cannot be conceived that any
army. native or invading. could be in the valley without means of cross-
ing the river, which with the inhabitants has always been such a mat-
ter of course as it is not seen to be anywhere else. At the hi h rock
of Chenoboscion, and for some way on each side of it, there is on y room
for a narrow belt of tilled land, at low Nile; but on the opposite shore
is a plain of considerable width. Generally speakin , (I might almost
say universally.) when the hills.approach on one si e, they recede on
Page-199
an: “annual. 197

the other; and it is obvious that this must have been the case through
all the changes the Nile has certainly made in its course.

We were now about to bid farewell to the doum palm,—a tree which
I liked in its place,—its stiffness and angularity rendering it curiously
appropriate to the scenery in which it is found. A rove of it between
us and the Dendara temple this day looked as wel as any tall elms
about a cathedral.

The crocodiles abounded ,now when we were soon to see no more.
Some remained asleep on the banks even after the sun had gone down.
Near Hon, Mr. E. saw nineteen at one time on themud banks.

We witnessed more of the doings of the crew now that we were not
absent on our temple-haunting all day long. The Buck did not im-

rove in sobriety as time went on; and one morning about this date,
he was insufferably noisy, in his elation at being dressed in a grand
suit of new clothes ;—brown burnoose, yellow slippers and a vast tur-
ban, white as muslin can be. On Mrs. Y. complainin of the noise,
after the Rais and dragoman had used every kind 0 remonstranoe.
Alee quietly went up to him, as he stood in his grandeur by the gun-
wale, lifted him by the waist, and popped him overboard. We really
feared that the weight of his clothes would have sunk him; but Alec
knew better. In two minutes I saw him standing by the gunwale
again, high and dry. but in his ordinary blue shirt and white skullcap.
—0ne of our quiet Nubianl, twenty-ﬁve years of age. had already two
wives; and by what we heard of his life at home, he might well be
content on board the boat. As Ales observed, a rich man may put his
wives into different apartments; but the poor man cannot: and the
women quarrel ﬁercely and incessantly. This Nubian had to carry
presents for his two wives after every voyage; and if they were not
precisely alike, there was no end to the wran ling—Alec called this
permission to have more than one wife a very d part of his religion.
He was not yet married at all; and he did not intend to marry till he
should have obtained money enough by his present employment to
enable him to settle down in a home of his own. One of my friends
one day expressed a hope that he would be careful in the choice of a
wife ;—so careful in assuring himself of her temper and goodness as
not to be tempted to put her away. as husbands in Egypt do so lightly
and cruelly. Alee did not quite promise this; but he gave an account
of What plan he should pursue, which shows how these matters are re-
garded by sensible young men in Egypt. He said he should buy a
white wife. when he wanted to settle. He should tell her what he ex-
pected of her ;—viz.. to be good-tempered; to make him comfortable;
and to take care of his “ boys." If she failed. he should, the ﬁrst time,
tell her his mind “ very strongly." And then, ifshe got out of temper,
or was negligent a second time. he should " just put her away.“ This
was said with the gesture of Othello at the words “ whistle her down
the wind."

The wag Ibraheem was seen to be very sulky to-day, after having
passionately thrown some bread overboard, and spat out after it what
was in his mouth. This was because the Rain rebuked him for his