
Page-200
198 . sari-sax use.

shabbiness in eating with the poor Nubians (the Cairenes having all by
this time quarreled) while laying by his own money for his wife.—he
having neither parents nor children to maintain. The way in which
this was told to us showed that the maintaining of parents was regarded
quite as a matter of course. It is to be feared that the parents’ need of
it is too much a matter of course, in the present state of that order of
society in Egy t.

0! the temp e of Dendara I will say nﬁhing. The oldest names it
bears are those of Cleopatra and her son erion; and it has not
therefore the interest of antiquity; while its beauty is of the same kind
as that of the [sun temple. 4t Dendara, as at lens, the Pasha has
caused the building to be cleared out; for which the world is obliged
to him: and it would have been more so, if he had not run a mud.brick
wall directly up against the middle of the front; so that no complete
view of the portico can be had from any point. However, we must
thankfully accept any conservative aid we can obtain, and hope to re-
molve¢ in course of time, any blemishes as manageable as mud-brick
wa Is.

On Saturday, January 23d, we made an excursion of some import-
ance :—to Abydus, which stood near. if not, as some scholars think, on
the spot where This was built—This. the old capital of Upper Egypt,
where sixteen kings reigned before Thebes was heard of. It will be
observed that as we are coming down the river, we are ascending the
stream of Time. - Thebes, built chieﬂy by monarchs of the Third
Period, appeared very ancient when we were there. We are now
(supposing Abydus to be the site of This), carried back to the First
Period. The only other ancient monuments now remaining for us |o
see were the Caves at Benee Hassn, whose dates are of the latter part
of the First Period; and the Pyramids,and the cluster of remains about
them; which are the very oldest of all. bearing date from the early part
of the First Period. If we this da stood on the site of This, we were
standing on the buried metropolis o powerful monarchs, who ﬂourished
here Within a few centuries of the building of the Pyramids ;—some-
where between four and ﬁve thousand years ago.

We left our boat at Beliane, and were to rejoin it in the evening at
Girgeh,a few miles down the river. We rods for above two hours
through a rich plain which bore crops of wheat, barley. lupins, vetches,
lentils, a little ﬂax, beans and sugar-cane. The barley was turning, in
some places. and the beans were in blossom, and some beginning to
pod. They grow tall, but are less strong in the stalk than with us. I
had a good opportunity to-day of observing the supplies of water in the
interior of the country. More than one curious point depends on
whether the whole supply of water is derived from the river, or whether
there are any springs whatever near the mountains. Ishould not have
doubted the supply being wholly derived‘from the river, but from the "
decided declaration of one resident who certainly ought, from his func-
tion, to understand the matter. But his declaration that the interior of
the country is watered partly by springs, was contradicted by so many
-—one of these being Linant Bey—as to convince me that it was mis-
Page-201
surname ml am. 199

taken. The ponds I saw—this day in considerable number. seven
miles from the river—are ﬁlled by ﬁltration from the Nile. Linaut Bey
says that the water of the Nile ﬁlters through to any distance where
water is found in the valley. From another authority I learned that it
penetrates to the Oasis. The ponds I saw to-day were of various
depths, shapes andsizes. Some few had clear water in them—the
shallower had a mere daub of mud at thebottom, while the sides were
green with young wheat—and the deepest were half ﬁlled with a green
puddle. A large number of men were emplo ed in cleaning out the
canal. and some of our party saw others emp oyed upon a new one.
The ﬁrst thought of many. in reading about this ﬁltration of Nile water,
will be of the passage in Herodotus about the actual burial place of the
king in the Great Pyramid. Speaking of the Second Pyramid, Hero-
dotus says,‘ “ It does not approach the magnitude of that of Cheops (I
have measured them both); it has neither subterranean structures nor
canal to convey the waters of the Nile; whereas the other, where it is
saidthe tomb of Cheops is placed, is in an island, and is surrounded by
the waters of the Nile, which are conducted there by a canal constructed
for the purpose.” This version, which I translate from Larcher, inti-
mates that the pyramid itself stood in an island, and was surrounded by
a canal. But another version of the passage gives a different impres-
sion. SirG. Wilkinson offers the passage thus: “ It has neither under-
ground chambers nor any canal ﬂowing into it from the Nile, like the
other, where the tomb of its founder is placed in an island surrounded
by water.” In another passage, Herodotus tells as (H. 124) that Che-
ops made uthe subterranean structures to serve him for a tomb, in an
island formed by the waters of the Nile, which he introduced into it by
a canal." There are some who, ﬁnding more and more “subterranean
structures” the lower they go in the Great Pyramid. and of a very dif-
ferent kind of building from mere foundation—that is, passa es leading
down and down again, so as to indicate some object lying eeper stil ,
cannot but wonder whether there may not be a royal tomb at the bot-
tom, with a moat of Nile water around it. What a discovery it would
be! It must be observed, however, as Larcher points out, that Hero.
dotus does not declare the king to be actually in the pyramid, but on]
his destined tomb; while Diodorus relates that the kings who buit
these pyramids were so odious to their subjects that neither of them
was actually buried there. The people threatened to snatch the corpses
from their graves, and tear them to pieces; so that the monarchs de-
sired their families to inter them secretly in some unknown place.1’
We should like to know, some day. whether the penetrating Nile has
been searching out, for all these thousands of years. the secrets of that
great prison-house which has permitted access to no other visitor.
One of the most curious si hts occurring in the course of an Egyp-
tian country ride, like this 0 outs to-day, is of the little victories of
the Nile over the Desert, in the outskirts of their battle-ﬁeld. It is
worth riding ten miles inland, if it were for nothing else, Io see what

‘ Herod. II. 127, 1' Larchor's note to Herodotus, 11. 127.
Page-202
200 nman un.

the soil is where the fertile and barren tracts meet. In the cucumber
and melon patches, I saw holes dug which showed a layer of from two
to five inches of rich black soil deposited upon the most hopeless yel-
low sand. We all know that it is so. We all know how the Nile de~
posits its mud ; but it is best witnessed by seei the crust thus sharply
cut through, and perceiving how it lies unmixe upon the sand.

We passed villages, farms, and single dwellings to-day. with their
dogs, geese, cattle. and children. The camels removed it further from
likeness to country scenes elsewhere than any other feature. We
passed the village of Aribat el Matfoon ((which means “ the buried").
and came out upon the site and ruins o Abydus—a mighty place on
its own account, whether it succeeded This or not. The position, for
a capital city, is very fine. I doubt whether the situation of Thebes
itself is ﬁner, except that there the Nile is nearer, and in full view;
whereas, here it is merely traced by its evidences, unless the canals
are full. From the south-east to the north-west is an amphitheatre of
rocks, guarding the plain from the sands of the Lybian Desert. 1n the
middle of this barrier. due west from the temples, is an opening of
great interest. It is the road to the Great Oasis. How many caravans
and military processions have moved and glittered along that road from
the city, disappearing in that deﬁle of the hills! From those preci i-
tous rocks now descend sand slopes, as far as the mounds which is
between the hills and the fertile plain. The temple and palace—now
the only coherent remains, are so far elevated as to afford a noble view
of the wide area which they ruled. They rose above the city which
now no doubt lies buried under these hilloclty sands. A very distant -
range of heights, faint and soft in color, incloses the rest of the land-
scape ; and from them to the temples spreads the rich plain. all varie-
ﬁated with groves and belts of palm and acacia, among which the vil-

ges are hid. The airy space and brightness of this scene are not to
be conveyed by description.

The remaining temple and palace are mainly the work or Ramases
the Great and his father Osirei. The temple is dedicated to Osiris. to
whom indeed the whole area is sacred; for this is one of the places
where he was believed to have been buried; and where the opulent
families of the region all therefore desire to be buried too. This pecu-
liarity, and‘ that of the road to the Great Oasis beginning here. sufﬁ-
ciently account for the grandeur of Abydus, after it had parted with its
primitive distinction of being. as This, the capital of Upper Egypt.
Meetin Ramases and his father here, we think differently of them
from w at we do at Thebes. Here, they are comparatively modems.
though living while the Hebrews were driving out the inhabitants of
the Holy Land. Ramases and his father were as much younger than
the monarchs on whose foundations they built as we are younger than
Josephus and the conquering Titus who laid low the temple of Solo-
mon. This temple contained the celebrated tablet,—the tablet of Aby-
dus—on which was cut, by order of Ramases the Great. a list of names
of the kings his predecessors. This tablet is now in the British Mu-
seum. As far as it goes, it most satisfactorily accords with the memo-
Page-203
Lawns—emcee. 201

rials on the temples and palaces, and with the names given on the walls
of the Ramaséum at Thebes. But the beginning of the list is unhap-
pily broken away; and we thus lose the light we most wanted for the
illustration of the earlier periods of Egyptian history.

Ramses lined one chamber of this temple throughout with alabaster.
The only part of this building which could be entered when we were
there was the hall; and even there we could only creep about among
the capitals of "the pillars. We could not even count them. I made
out that there were two in the width; but I could not penetrate further
than the seventh in length; which made fourteen. An Arab, whom
we sent in to count the rest, said there were twenty-six in all. If
Ramases could have looked forward to the time when his temple would
be explored in this way, how he would have mourned for his religion
and for mankind! The capitals of 'these pillars are so large. and the
architraves so deep, that the hall, if cleared out, must be very lofty. I
saw the cornices of two portals; but there is no sayin what lies be-
hind them. Air and light are let in by holes in the roo .

The palace at hand is remarkable for its roof, which is of sandstone,
while the walls are of limestone. The blocks which, laid together by
their broadest face, form a roof of prodigious weight and solidity, are
hollowed out into a vaulted form :—a laborious and primitive method
of vaulting for people who certainly understood the principle of the
arch. The sculptures on the walls are still clear; and there are stron
traces of color. , One superb boat caught my attention. The king, an
the ape of Thoth, and some other small ﬁgures were in it; and one ex-
tremity was ornamented with the raln’s horns, while the other had two
towers, crowned with the moon.

We walked on, about a quarter of a mile, over mounds of broken
pottery and sand, to see such forlorn remains of these two great cities
as lie above ground, to grieve and tantalize the eye. A limestone gate-
way, gayly painted, is partly disinterred; and also the corner portion
of some place once lined with alabaster, blocks and fragments of which
are lying about. There isa good deal of red granite.—some sculpture,
and two blocks which appear to be the ﬂanks of a pylon. There were
some black stelas and blocks; and plenty of crude brick. This was all;
but I would not, for much, have missed it. Such places are full of in-
terest in any state; for their monuments, if their monuments remain;
for their desolation, and the harvest of thoughts yielded by that barren-
ness. if the sand has spread itself over all.

We rode away from the begging Arabs ofAribat. and found a charm-
ing spot whereon to take our rest and luncheon. We passed that rare
object,—a round, natural-looking pond of blue water, in a basin of the
desert, with alms scattered about it: and then we came to a grove
where the pa ms sprang up, straight and lofty, from an expanse of grass
of the vivid green of our April turf. 'l‘here remained the ride to Gir-
geh. which occupied three hours and a half. V It was all throu h the
same rich plain which we had overlooked from the mounds ofA ydus;
and the fertility never failed, all the way, except where patches of the
coarse grass called halfeh lay here and there between the ﬁelds. Gir-

I”
Page-204
202 3mm nu.

geh looked ﬁne as we approached it, with its tall minarets, its thick

ve behind, and the range of mountains on the other side of the blue
ine of river. The rocks were red in the sunset, and the hostly moon
was stealing up behind them as we reached the shore. When the after-
glow had died away, and the moon had assumed her glory, it was plea-
salnt to sit watching the currents of the river in the trail of golden light
a e cast.

—

CHAPTER XVIII.

BENEE HASAN.—MASGOON.—PYRAMIDS OF DASHOOR AND SAKKARA.
—MEMPHIS.—MUMMY PITS.——CONSECRATION 0F BRUTES.

11' is safe and easy now to visit the caves of Benee Hasan; but it
was dangerous or impossible a quarter of a centur ago. The village
now lies apparently rooﬂess and mined; but it is still inhabited to a
certain extent, and by peOple of good character. It was formerly a
pirate village. When no boat on the river was safe from pillage in
passing Benee Hasan, and murders became frequent, Ibraheem Pas‘ha
took the matter in hand. He brought his troops round the hills, sur-
prised the place in the night, and shot almost every individual in it—
man, woman, and child.

The village is seen from a ravine a little above the caves. From
this point, the further view is of the rich valle and its winding river;
but the near view is wild enou h. Down this ravine trotted a very
large fox, which, from its size, ooked at ﬁrst like a jackal. Some of
the lower strata of the rocks are worn away. leaving the upper parts
overhanging. Strange boulders are perched at intervals along the
brink of the ravine, some being cut sheer through, like felled trees;
and those which were entire exactly resembling (and they were all
alike) large petriﬁed sheep without their heads. Similar boulders
stood at intervals on either side the great road, easily traceable from
the bféront of the caves. which led up the steep, from the boats to the
tom .

Up this road came the funeral processions, to the caves which are
opened in the strata of the rock. We must remember how very long
ago this was. We must remember that Josephus, in his national van-
it , desired to make out that the Hebrews were descended from the
S epherd Race of invaders, and falsiﬁed history for the purpose; and
then, we must remember that some of these tombs were sealed up be-
fore the Shepherd Kings entered Egypt. As that hated host swept
conquerin by, and perhaps looked up at these rocks as they passed,
some of t ese tombs were occupied and closed—their walls being co-
vered with the paintings which were before our eyes this day. The
tombs I speak of bear date from the latter part of the First Period.
They are the oldest known monuments in the country, except the
Pyramids.
Page-205
tram nasart. s 203

It is in one of these caves. however, that some people have fancied
they have found a procession of Joseph's brethren. It may be natural
for those who go from a Christian count , with little other antecedent
interest in Egypt than its being the a e of Joseph and his descend-
ants. to look for Hebrew personages on the monuments. But I think
such travelers should take some little pains to reﬂect and observe before
they say that they have found them; A very little observation would
show that the Egyptians never put on their monuments anything that
*ey were ashamed of. There are no traces of the Shepherd Race.

here are certainly none of the Hebrews as a nation—except where
the cities of Judah and the captives of Jerusalem come in among the

ictures of Sheshonlr's conquests. There was no reason for celebrat-
Ing them while they were neither enemies nor captives, but only the
lowest workin class in the country. Still less reason was there for
representing ﬁre brethren of Joseph, who came as individuals or a
family. and not as representatives of any nation, or even tribe. It is
thus improbable beforehand that the Hebrews should appear on any
early monuments.

In the next place. the procession here conjectured to have been one
of Hebrew oﬂ'erers, can be shown, I think, to be a very didemnt set of
people indeed. I will presently explain why. But, further, if the
discoveries of Lepsius and the conclusions of Bunsen are right, in re-
lation to the dates of the Three great Periods of Egyptian history (and
it would take much power and learning to overthrow them). this parti-
cular tomb was painted a thousand years before Joseph was born. This
tomb bears date in the reign of Osirtasen, who is now believed, on new
evidence produced by Dr. Lepsius, to be the Sesorta‘sen of the twelfth
d nasty of the Monuments; the Sesonchosis of the same dynasty of

netho. According to the same evidence. the Shepherd Kings came
in in the middle of the thirteenth dynasty, remained 926 years, and
we then driven out by the teat Pharaohs of the eighteenth dynasty;
un er one of whom Moses ed away the Hebrews. The Septua int
declares their residence'in Egypt to have lasted 215 years; the e‘
brew Chronology gives 430 years. Whichever be preferred, it is clear
that this tomb must have been shut up many hundred years before Jo-
seph was born.

This tomb,——the twenty-ninth from the South. and second from the
Northr—has a vaulted portion, with two ﬂuted pillars ;—beautiful Doric
pillars they would have been called, if erected man centuries later.
Throughout its chambers, its basement is painted a eep red; and on
this basement. and the architraves and everywhere. the hieroglyphics
are green; the effect of which is extremely good—The interior cham-
ber contains the pedestal of a statue. Two longitudinal architraves
divide the ceiling of this outer chamber into three portions, which are
vaulted, and richly starred. There are three pits in this chamber; and
there were four pillars: but they are gone.

[t is in this painted chamber that the procession occurs which many
have supposed, and all have striven to suppose, might be the arrival of
Joseph’s rethren. At each end of the row stands a great man. (There
Page-206
204 lunar: urn.

is no sitting ﬁgure, as some have re ed.) The hieroglyphics show
that neither of these great men can e Pharaoh or Joseph. The prin-
cipal ﬁgure is named Nefothph; and his parents' names are also given.
He is presented as governor of this district, on the east side of the
Nile. He is no doubt the owner of the tomb.—The number of per-
sons presented to the king by Joseph was ﬁve; and the number who
had arrived were seventy: but here we have written up over the heads
of the strangers the word “ captives," and the number “ thirty-seven."
The complexions are of the yellow, by which the Egyptians designated
the whites; the tint of the men's faces being only a little deeper than
that of the women. The men wear beards, tunics. and sandals: the
women have their hairlong, and bound round the temples. They wear
tunics;—one at least with a very handsome Greek border. aswe should
call it if Greece had existed then; and they are all shod in ankle-boots.
Two children's heads emerge from ornamented panniers slung on an as.
The offerings brought are not like what the sons of Jacob would have
to give. After a wild goat and gazelle, comes a handsome present of
ostrichcs ;—quite a ﬂock of them; and the procession closes with a red
man who carries an ibis. Now, it is curious that no account that I have
met with of this celebrated procession has mentioned the ostriches; which
are precisely the gill of the whole set which Joseph’s brethren could
not have brought. And there is no pretence that we could see for slop-
ping short at the ostriches, which join on to the rest of the procession
without any interval, and, with the man carrying the ibis, ﬁnish the
subject. .'

What shall we say to this omission? And what shall we say‘ to a
traveler Mrs. Romer), who coolly reports, without any apparent shame.
that she as brought away from Benee Hasan the head and shoulders
of a ﬁgure which she does not doubt to be that of a Jewish captive :—
her dragoman having cleverl detached from the wall this interesting
specimen of antiquity! W ere are our hopes for the monuments of
Egypt. if passing travelers are to allow their servants, (who know no
better.) to commit thefts for them in such a way as this! Who will
undertake to say what may be the value of any one head and shoulders
in a group which may be made unintelligible by its absence! It is
mournful enough to see whatscientiﬁc antiquarians do ;—-how one saws
through the middle of atablet of inscriptions; and another knocks down
one pillar of a series; and another carries away a group,—symbolical
and necessary in its own place: but there really seems no hope left if
desultory travelers are to pick and steal at their fancy from a repository
where everythin has its place, and is in its place.

I visited the w ole thirty of these tombs; and found twenty-one which
may be called commonplace; by which I mean that they contained the
ordinary pits for the reception of bodies, a few niches, a few mock
door-ways,—which are frequently a form of tablet for inscriptions :—
some with remains or traces of pillars; some with small inner cham-
bers; many with slightly vaulted roofs, and usually an architrave to
divide the vaulted from the plain part of the ceiling. Where the pil-
lars are gone, the circular bases which are left are so smooth as to
Page-207
mm mass. 206

perplex one's thought as to what has been done to them :—as smooth
as if some dexterous dragoman had sawn through the precious shaft,
to indulge his employer with a new toy. The pillars which remain
are often very beautiful. In the southern caves, they consist of the
stems of four water plants' springing from a lar e, solid, circular base,
and bound together below the capital, which is armed of four lobes of
lotus buds.—The polygonal pillars which I have mentioned as being
truly Doric have simply a lowly abacus between the shaft and the
architrave.

The tombs throughout are not sculptured. except the hieroglyphic
inscriptions. but painted on plaster. In many places the laster seems
to have been purposely broken or scraped away,—so ha is the mate-
rial, and so vivid the painting, in the corners that are left. This ruin
was probably wrought by the Christians, who have elsewhere cut their
crosses deep into the very ﬁgures on the walls.—Considering the early
times, the colors here are various. 1 found a bri ht scarlet,—I thin
for the ﬁrst time. The women are yellow skinne throughout. There
are multitudes of pairs of wrestlers in what are called the military pic-
tures; and these pairs are of a darker and lighter red, so as to show
distinctly the intertwining of the lithe limbs. The birds, which are
very various. rejoice throughout in a prodigiously gay plumage.

I will not indulge myself, and weary my readers, with going over the
nine tombs which we found remarkable and full of interest. [will only
just ask those who read to bear in mind the antiquity of these paintings,
while I mention a few particulars of them.

We have here the art of writing as a familiar practice, in the scribes
who are numbering the stores on every hand. There are ships which
would look handsome in Southampton Water, any sunny day. There
are glass-blowers who might be from Newcastle, but for their dress and
complexion. There are ﬂax-dressers, spinners, weavers,—and a pro-
duction of cloth which an English manufacturer would study with in-
terest. There are potters, painters, carpenters and statuaries. There
is a doctor attending a patient; and a herdsman physicking cattle. The
hunters employ arrows. spears and the lasso. The lasso is as evident
as on the Pampas at this day.—'l‘here is the Nile full of ﬁsh. and a
hippopotamus among the ooze. There is the hastinado for the men;
and the ﬂogging of a seated woman. Nothing is more extraordinary
than the gymnastics and other games of the women. Their various
games of ball are excellent.-—The great men are attended b dwarfs
and buffoons, as in a much later age; and it is clear that bodily inﬁrmity
was treated with contempt ;-—deformed and decrepit personages apv
pearing in the discharge of the meanest oﬁces.—It was an age when
this might be looked for; and when war would be the most prominent
occupation, and wrestling the prevailing sport; and probably also the
discipline of the soldiery: and when hunting, ﬁshing and fowling ,
would be very important pursuits. But them—what a power of re-
presentation of these things is here! and what luxury co-existing with
those early pursuits! Here are harpers with their harps of seven strings;
and garments and boat-sails with elegant patterns and borders, where,
Page-208
206 watts sin.

by the way, angular and regular ﬁgures are pointedly preferred ;—and
the ladies’ hair, disordered and ﬂying about in their sports. has tails and
tassels, very like what may have been seen in London drawing-rooms
in no very remote times. The incident which most reminds one of the
antiquity of these paintings is that the name of bird, beast. ﬁsh or arti- '
ﬁcer is written up over the object delineated. It is the resource,—not
needed here, however, of the artist who wrote on his picture " this is
the man,"—“ this is the monkey.” Another barbarism is the same that
1 have mentioned elsewhere ;—that the great man, the occupant of the
tomb. has his greatness signiﬁed by bigness. beings giant among mid-
dle~sized peep e. ~ '

We spent four hours in the diligent study of these tombs: and I ran
over the note-worthy nine once more. to keep them all distinct in in
memory. The wind was so high that we could not leave the bunk ti
after sunset; so we had excellent leisure for noting down on the spot
what we had seen.

Our letters had lately told us of snow eighteen feet deep in York-
shire; and at this date (4th February) I ﬁnd in my journal that our
days were “ like August da s on Windermere.” The thermometer
stood at 74° in the shaded on in in the middle of the day. It had been
down to 40°, one cold morning, up the river: but I had never felt any
degree of cold that was really uncomfortable; and rarel any heat that
could be seriously complained of. The ﬂies were tmubisome for some
hours in the middle of the day, so as to compel us to sit on deck instead
of in the cabin; but they let us alone in the mornings and evenings.
which were the only times when I. for one. cared to be in the cabin.

While we stopped at a village for milk. one afternoon. a man came
down to us for medical advice. 1 used to think it one of the prettiest
sights we saw when, on such occasions. Mr. E. examined the case with
as much care as he would have given to a brother's. and Mr. Y. ad-
ministered whatever aid could begiven. Such oﬂices cannot but abate
Mohammedan prejudices against the Christians; and I trust all who go
up the Nile endeavor to do their part. with prudence and earnest kind-
ness. Without much uacking.—without danger of doing real harm—-
some little relief may given by simple medicines. and yet more per-
haps by sending away the patient with hope in his heart. Any advice
or medicine which he may obtain from English travelers is likely to be
safer and better than what he will have at home; and at any rate, he
may be granted the cordial of sympathy and good-will.

he wind to—nigbt was high; and it so jostled us against the bank
as to destroy sleep. In the morning we passed another foundered
vessel, whose masts just showed themselves above the water. The
river was now less interesting to us than at any previous time. The
crocodiles were absent; and the birds were scarce] more numerous
. than at home. The water had sunk so much, and t e hills had so re.
treated, that the shores looked very ﬂat. Yet we felt rather heavy at
heart when we recognized objects,—-as the False Pyramid today,—
which told us that we were drawing near to Cairo. So far from being
“ bored to death with the Nile,” as we had been often threatened, we
Page-209
laseoos. 207

heartily enjoyed, to the last moment, our boat life, and felt really melan-
choly when packing up our books and papers for the Cairo hotel.
We had still, however, two more days from the present date to spend
on board.

On the evening of the 7th we walked on shore at Masgoon. where
we stopped In order to visit,the next day, the Pyramids of Dashoor and
Sakkira, and the remains of Memphis. When we had passed the vil-
lage and groves, we saw in the desert such an array of pyramids as

justiﬁes Strabo's description of them as being all along the brow of the
hills. The people here look comfortable, though their district is the
property of Abbas Pasha, who Is not noted for conducing to the comfort
of humanity. This village and its lands are a present to him from his
grandfather, the Pasha. He gives the people the land, seed. and Irri-
gation, and takes half the produce Such are the nominal terms, which,
in Egypt generally, are something widely different from the actual bar-
gain. The palms here are very ﬁne. The wool, which the people
were spinning and reeling, was white ;—the ﬁrst white wool I remem-
ber to have seen. The distafl's were clumsy , but both men and wome n
were as heartily busy as the could have been about better work. The
children were ludicrously raid of us; and not even baksheesh could
reconcile them. We were to them, no doubt, what the dreaded "black
man” is to cottagers’ children In England. One little boy ﬂed like the
wind from the offer of a ﬁve para piece; and he could hardly be per-
suaded to take it from behind his mother’s skirts, where he sought
refuge. A large quantity of mud bricks was here laid out to dry.
They had an unusual proportion of straw in them; so that I believe
theyy would have burned to ashes if set fire to. This naturally brou ht
to mind the brick-making of the Hebrews, who were from about ‘
time never out of m mind till we reached Damascus. We were on
their traces now; an afterwards all through our journeyings in Arabia
and Palestine. All the next day! saw them in the plain of Memphis ;
saw the remains of the heavy works in which they might have toiled;
in the brickvﬁelds, and in the cucumber and melon rounds which
.yielded the food the so longed for in the Desert. hen Ilooked
upon those fruitful pints, neatly fenced with millet stalks; and upon
the bright verdure which spread like a carpet beneath the palms,-a
carpet of the richest clover ,—and upon the blue ponds inland, and the
noble river ﬂowing gently between its fertile banks, with family groups
hasking' m the evening sun above the stream, or sitting in the checkered
shade of the acacia groves, I could understand the longin of the He-
brews for a return to Egypt on any terms. From the mi st of such a
desert as I had seen at Aswan, what' Is such a scene as this to the
memory,—a sunset among palms, ponds, clover-ﬁelds, and acacia
groves, near the adored Nile! Might not this contrast make any exile
as heart-sick to think of as the Image of any country under heaven,—
unless going from slavery, he was worthy of the freedom In store for
him; which the Hebrews were not, and could not become on a sudden.

While we were on shore this evening, Mrs. Y., who had remained

on board, was not without amusement. Our crew, always like chil-
Page-210
208 nun“ urn.

dren, went to child‘s play. By Mrs. Y.’s account. it was a capital
scene. The Buck took ofﬁce as Governor; was high and mighty. and
had the tax-payers brought before him. There was no end to the bas-
tinado and imprisonment he inﬂicted on unfortunate debtors, who told
such tales of outrageous misfortune as were never heard before.
Where our children play school, and naughtiness. and punishment,
these men play tax-gathering. mishap, and bastinado.

When we were ready to start, on the morning of the 8th, there was
much dis uting between Alee and the donkey men: and the sheikh
was calle to give his opinion. The difﬁculty was that the men wanted
the whole pay (seven piastres per donkey) in advance.which of coume
Alee was unwilling to give to strangers. He offered half in advance:
and I believe it was settled so. at last. The men’s plea was that a party
of Europeans the day before had agreed to pay seven piastres per don-
key; but had at last paid only four, alleging discontent with the ani~
mals. I hope this was not true.

We crossed the rich plain, which was very lively from its being
market-day. The assemblage of people was considerable: most of
them bringing something to market. The women carried loads like
those of their husbands ;—basltets of charcoal, from the acacia-groves;
tow, wool, kids carried on the shoulder. &c. The women's faces were
carelessly covered, or not at all; and we were suddenly struck by the
lighter shade of complexion here.

We came abruptly upon the Desert, near the two stone Pyramids of
Dashoor. The ﬁrst,which changes its angle half way up, is the ugliest
building I ever saw, being at once clumsy and decre it in appearance.
I saw a wild cat run up the south-west angle, and ide itself among
the stones; and Mr. E. had just before seen a large fox. On every
side but the north, the stones were rough and broken. One circum-
stance hecame thus apparent, which struck me as worth remembering,
—the method of joining the blocks by locking them with a stone-key.
A stLuare hole on one side of each block being ﬁtted to the correspond-
in ole of the other, makes an oblong square hole, of course: and an
ob ong uare of stone ﬁtting into it locks them together in one direc- .
tion, as ovetailing would in two.—On the north side, though the sur-
face was crusted, there was a smoothness and accurate joining of the
stone, which showed what the face must once have been. The en-
trance is at the north; and we saw the square hole; but there is no-
thing within, it is understood, to tempt the passing traveler to enter,
while so near other pyramids which are worth all the time and effort
he has to spare.—The best effect of these pyramids is when one looks
up to the glorious sky above them. and sees how sharp and bright they
stand out.—the yellow ediﬁce glittering against the blue heaven.

The brick Pyramids of Dashoor are now crumbled down into mere
ruin. Yet it is believed by some that the northernmost of these is the
one which once bore the proud inscription recorded by Herodotus.
The old Pharaoh. of the First Period, Asychis, who built that pyramid

whichever it may he) was prouder of his brick than of any atone edi-
ce,-~whether from its novelty, or from its having had a vaulted roof
Page-211
' “arms. 209

within,—(a trial of the arch. as Dr. Richardson suggests.)—there is no
saying now: but this is the account Herodotus gives of the matter.
" This prince. wishing to surpass all the kings who had reigned in
Egypt before him. left for a monument a pyramid of brick, with this
inscription out upon a stone: ‘ Despise me not, in comparing me ivith
the pyramids of stone. I am as much above them as Jupiter (Amun)
is above the other gods: for I have been built of bricks made of the
mud brought up from the bottom of the lake !’ This is the most me-
morable thing Asychis did."*

From hence to Sakkt’tra was a ride ofabout two miles across the De-
sert. We enjoyed the ride, being aided and braced by a cool wind
from the south, which carried us along cheerily. From the ﬁrst sand-
ridge, we saw the white citadel of Cairo, standing ﬁnely on its rock,
under the Mokuttam range. I was sorry to see it, and to receive its
warning that our Nile voyage was just over.

At Sakkira. we found ourselves among the remains of the Necro-
polis. It was a mournful confusion of whitened skulls, deep pits,
mummy rags, and mounds of sand.

It was here that Herodotus rose into his enthusiasm about the gran-
deur and wisdom of Egypt. and learned most that he knew of its his-
tory. and saw the mighty works which gloriﬁed the name and memory
of—Sesostris and other old Pharaohs. It was here that in a later day,—
(two-thirds of the centuries which lie between Herodotus and us,)—
the learned physician of Bagdad saw what transported him with admi-
ration and astonishment, though he complains with indignation of the
mischief wrought by treasure-seekers, who were even parting the
stones of the ediﬁces for the sake of the copper used in joining them.
He looked upon the place as mined, and mourned over the disappear-
ance of Memphis. \Vhat would he think of it now !—Seven centuries
ago, Abdallatif wrote thus of the spot we were on to-day.

.. Let us_now pass on to other traces of the ancient grandeur of
Egypt. I am now speaking of the ruins of the old capital of this coun-
try, which was situated in the territory of Geezeh, a little above Fos-
tal. This capital was Memphis: it was there that the Pharaohs re-
sided ; and this city was the seat of empire in Egypt. It is of this city
that we are to understand the words of God in the Koran, when he is
speaking of Moses: He entered into the city at the moment when the
inhabitants were sinking into sleep: and again: Moses then went
forth from the city. full of terror, and looking about him. For Moses
made his abode in a village of the territory of Geezeh, a little. way from
the capital; which village was called Dimoub. The Jews have a sy-
nagogue there at this day. The ruins of Memphis now occupy a space
whic is half-a-day’s journey every w . This city was ﬂourishing
in the time of Abraham. Joseph and uses, and a long time before
them, and a long time after them." . . . . " As for the idols
which are found among these ruins, whether one considers their num-
ber or their prodigious magnitude, it is a. thing beyond all description,

’ Herod. II. [36.
14

Digitized DEW i i 316
Page-212
210 “mart am.-

and of which no idea can be conveyed ; but there is a thing yet more
worthy of admiration ; and that is the precision of their forms, the just-
ness of their proportions. and their resemblance to nature." -And then
this anatomist goes on to show what are the requisites to the perfect
representation of the human frame, with its muscular niceties. and con-
tinues: “ There are some of these statues which hold in their hands a
kind of cylinderf—prohably a roll of writing: and the artist has not
forgotten to represent the folds and wrinkles which are formed in the
skin of the hand when it is closed.towards the outer part by the little
ﬁnger. The beauty of the face of these statues. and the perfect propor-
tions which are observed there, are such as the most excellent art of men
alone can eﬁ'ect, and the best that‘such a substance as stone can re-
ceive. There is nothing wanting but the ﬂesh and the blood. The
ﬁgure of the ear. its oriﬁce, and its sinuosities, are given to perfection.—
[have seen two lions placed opposite and near to each other: their
aspect inspired terror. Notwithstanding their colossal size, so far he-

ond nature, all the truth of form and proportion had been preserved.

hey have been broken, and covered with -earth."-—“ A man of good
sense, seein all these remains of antiquity. feels disposed to excuse
that error 0 the vulgar which suppoms that men of distant ages lived
much longer than those of our times: that they were of gigantic sta-
ture: and that by means of a wand with which they struck the stones,
the stones obeyed their will,and transported themselves wherever they
were desired. We remain indeed in a sort of stupor when we consi-
der how much of nine, of resolution and of patience, must have been
united with a pro onud knowledge of metr . to execute such works;
what different instruments from an t two new of must have been
employed; and what obstinate la r; and to what point these men
have studied the structure of animals and of men.“

These are some few particulars of what Abdallatif saw among these
ruins of Memphis, which in his day occupied a space of half-a-day’s
journey. At the end of seven centuries. the aspect of the place is this.
From the village of Mitrahenny (which now occupies the site), can be
seen only palm woods,a blue pond, rushes. and a stretch of verdant
ground, broken into hollows, where lie 9. single colossus, a single capital
of a column, a half-buried statue of red. granite. twelve feet hi h, and
some fragments of granite strewn among the palms. This is al of the
mi hty Memphis!

he colossus is the celebrated Ramases’ statue, given to the British
Museum by Signor Caviglia and Mr. Sloane, but left in its grassy hol-
low on account of the expense. It is very beautiful. The serene and
cheerful face is like that of the Colossi at Aboo-Simbil. but more beau-
tiful. Each hand holds a scroll, with a cartouche at the end. There
it lies, for the Nile to ﬂow over it every year, and the s to grow’up
round it when the waters have retired. It lies on its ace: but by go-
ing down into the hollow, we could obtain a good view of the features.
which are as sharp cut, and almost as delicately ﬁnished, as any of

' Relation de l‘Egypte, Line I. Ch. 4.
Page-213
m m m. 811

Chan ’s works at home. The upper part of the statue is somewhat

rrod ; but the under part retains its polish. If this statue is really
the colossus which Herodotus speaks of as erected in front of the tem-
ple of Phthah, what a pity it is that further research is not made, and _
that glorious structure laid open to view from beneath the mounds!
Herodotus says that that statue of Sesostris was accompanied b one of
his wife, of similar proportions, and by four smaller ones of his sons.‘
But, if Lepsius is right in believing Sesostris to be-a Pharaoh of the
First Period,this is not the. statue. At all events, there it lies in the
mud; likely to be, as Sir G. Wilkinson observes, burned for lime, any
day}, by the Turks. ’

he view which I obtained from a rid in the Necropolis was truly

dreary. It was at the colorless time of ay—noou: and there was no
relief to the white expanse of waste. but black and bristlin palm tops
in clumps, with a slight glimpse of the green beneath. he citadel
of Cairo, white. on its white rock, was about a dozen miles off to the
northeaa; the white city stretching from it westwards—a slender belt
of black palms dividing it from the desert plain on which I stood. A
range of white mounds near almost'hid the alluvion, beyond which rose
the white Arabian hills. All around, and ﬁlling up the whole scene
to the west, stretched the glaring Desert, oppressing the sense. Yel-
low “ sand ads," as they are called in my journal. In between the
mounds. 1?: the northwest stood the sharp-shadowe Pyramids of
Geezeh; and nearer. those of Abooseer: and close at hand, that of
Sakkira.

This Pyramid is built in degrees or terraces; the spaces between
the gradations being very wide. Five of these degrees are clearly
marked all round; a sixth was traceable by a bit of wall uncovered on
the north side: andla deep well was at our feet, on that north side.
wherein there is, as we were told, an entrance, probably opening upon
a seventh terrace. The sand has hidden a large proportion of this
Pyramid: but, makin all allowance for that, we saw no great wonder,

_ nor any beauty, thus lzar.

We next went to the mummy pits; and ﬁrst into the underground
world of ibises. There is no season of Egyptian travel in which one's
sensations are more stran e than in that spent in mummy pits. Here
were underground cham rs, pillared, painted, and son ptured, exca-
vated into ornamented recesses, and consecrated to the gods : and de~
stined for the burial of birds. And then the cats! In a sort of quarry,
lay strata of these bodiesrthe rags ﬂuttering out. and the layers con-
sisting of hosts of cats. The feline population of a whole continent for
ages would be required, it seems. to ﬁll these pits. The cats are
swathed like the human body ; the ibises are inclosed in red pots, like
chimney-pots, with the round end cemented on.

I am far from wondering at the feelings of contempt and disgust ex-
pressed by most travelers who visit these pits. I was conscious of some
tendency to those feelings in myself; but I think it is necessary to re-

. Herod. 11.110.
Page-214
212 ass-ran urn.

member here, as in all strange positions of the mind. that we ought to
understand before we despise, and that. usually. the more we understand
the less we despise. Of course I do not, and never shall, pretend to
explain, in any degree, the old Egyptian practices with regard to the
consecration of animals; but two or three considerations occurred to me
on the spot which appeared to be worth revolving.

The most obvious particular of old Egyptian thought and feeling—
that which presses upon the traveler's notice everywhere among the
monuments, so as to compel him to a reiteration of the fact which must
be excused in him—is the sacredness of Life, and therefore of Organi-
ntion. The evidences of this are sometimes such as our existing
morality and taste forbid to be dwelt upon or described to any public.
or to any large number whohave not been there to witness the simpli-
city and the solemni with which this subject is regarded and treated
in the monuments; at my own impression is that there is as much
work for the philosopher—the‘religious philosopher—in contemplating
the ancient ideas of sacred things as for the antiquarian in interpreting
the forms of their conveyance; and it may yet perhaps be found that
the speculations of the most devout Christian and the most enlightened
of the old heathens have the same root, and a development not so dif-
ferent as the superﬁcial might suppose. It may be seen. sooner or
later, that in our reverence for Life, we underrate the facts of Organi-
zation as much as the old Egyptians appear to us to have overrated
them. in their reverence for Life. The Christian contempt for the body
may be found to he an error as great and as mischievous as any heathen
worship of it. It may appear t at. in considering the animal frame, so
“fearfully and wonderfully made,” as a carcass, a mere shell for the
habitation of the principle of Life, to be despised and disparaged as a
mere instrumentality of what we call Mind. we are as wron as any
old heathen: could be in striving after a factitious immortaﬁty for it.
For our contempt of the body—for any species of asceticism—we are,
as far as i can see. without any warrant to he found in Christianity or
' in true philosophy. In our just reverence for the higher part of man's
nature, his powers of thought and feeling. we may he found, at length,
to have adopted a false supposition of facts, and to have striven after a
separation not warranted by nature between those powers and the ani-
mal frame. Wherever this separation of treatment has been aimed at,
wherever asceticism has been practiced for the good of the soul, the
object has failed; and precisely in proportion to men’s contempt of the
body has been the v-itiation of the mind. The whole history of asceti’
cism shows that the mental and moral powers of man sink. or become
corrupted. when the bodily frame is treated with indignity and cruelty,
quite as certainly as when the animal appetites are unreasonably and
unnaturally indulged. And the thoughtful hilosopher sees that it
must be so. All that we really know is t at we know nothing of
absolute creation; that we have no evidence of it. and can form no con-
ception of it; that Life itself is an inexplicable fact to us; that we
recognize it only through organization; and, that we have no right, and
no power, to conceive of it as apart from organization—all our laborious
Page-215
consultation or same. 213

attempts, so to conceive of it, terminating in imaginations of an organi-
zation more subtle and reﬁned than Nature has presented to our view.
On such a subtle and reﬁned organization a considerable number of
men have in all ages ﬁxed their ima ination. their hope and their be-
lief; but they have never succeede in showing any evidence for it,
while, in wandering away from the facts of Nature, they have injured
their own best powers, and failed of the highest attainments possible to
their nature. The hi heat of human beings, the holiest. and the safest
in any event. would e one whose bodily frame was of the highest
order originally. the most fully exercised (which includes its being the
most perfectly disciplined). and whose functions of brain were therefore
performed in the most perfect manner—giving him the highest moral
and intellectual elevation possible to humanity. In the reverence for
Life which would rest upon such a being, the unsophisticated Christian
and the devout old Egyptian would meet. Previous to such an en-
counter, the one might err in holding to his Platonic or Essene notions
of a separate soul, clogged with a contemptible and obstructive body.
and spuming the notion of its resurrection; and the other might err in
regarding every animal frame as such a manifestation of deity as it
would be profane to allow to decay; but in actually meeting with the
highest example of existence ever offered to their notice. their common
reverence for Life would be gratiﬁed to such a degree as to enable each
to mend his philosophy, and both to ascertain more carefully than
hitherto the ground of fact on which alone true philosophy can be
‘reared. The Platonizing Christians of our time might have sympathy
with the ancient philosopher who ointed contemptuously to a dead
body. with the words. “See the she I of the ﬂown bird !” but the Co-
rinthian readers of Paul's Epistle would shrink from the saying. as the
old Egyptians would; the early Christians from their belief in Paul‘s
doctrine of the Resurrection; and the heathens from their belief that
whatever had been gifted with sentient life was forever sacred. And
if it came to argument between the two, whether the line of sacredness
was to be drawn between Man and Brute, it certainly appears to most
people now that in reason the Egyptian would have the advantage.
Remembering that the Egyptians grounded their belief in the immor-
tality of life on the constitution of living beings. on the mystery of their
existence at all in the absence of any evidence of absolute creation, .we
must see that they could not draw a line. of separation between any
classes of beings who had sentient life. Any exclusion of brutes from
the reverence entertained towards Life, and from its quality of immor-
tality, is grounded solely on the plea of a divine revelation that Man
shall either not die. or shall live again; and there are not a few devout
receivers of this revelation who have refused to exclude brute animals
from the condition of immortality; not a few Christian philosophers
who have shrunk from declaring that beings which enjoy the. intellec-
tual and moral powers of the dog, for instance. 'shall be annihilated at
death while Man survives. Such men as some of these are not treated
with ridicule or contumely on account of this, speculation, and they
could hardly treat with ridicule or contumely the Egyptians who in
Page-216
214 nuns urn.

their reverence for the mystery of Life-the ultimate fact in nature to
us all—treated with serious care its sole manifestation to them and to
us—the organization of sentient beings.

If the Egyptians ventured upon a step further back than the fact of
Life, and assumed it to be a divine particle ﬂowing forth from a self-
existent and sole eternal Being. to ﬂow back into its centre on the death
of the body, it is clear that no line could be drawn between the hnc
man being and the brute, as to the reverence in which the sentient
frame was to be held—It is true, the Egyptians worshiped no human
beings; and they did pay religious observance to some brutes. They
called their monarchs and great men “ ode,” explaining that by this
they meant to dignify men whom the gods favored with intercourse and
special protection: but they paid no reverential honors to them. as they
did to brutes. This seems to have arisen from their reverence for [n-
stinct; which does truly answer to the original idea of inspiration; and
is so acknowledged among all such primitive people as those who hold
madness and idiotcy sacred. The original idea of inspiration is, exer-
cise of mind without consciousness. Thus. the highest order of genius
is with us the nearest approach to inspiration; and among primitive
and inexperienced nations. it is the unconscious and involuntary action
from ideas which is seen in the idiot Highland child, or the lost Indian
Fakeer. or the half-knavish, half-foolish Arabian derweesh; or. in old
times, the magnetized utterer of the oracles, or the spontaneously-pro-
phesying seer. The instinct of animals comes under this head, or ap-
pears to do so. It appears to be action of mind unattended by conscious-
ness; and it might well, therefore, be taken for inspiration: and every
action of the creature would then be watched for guidance. and every
incident connected with it be accepted for an omen. It is as easily
conceivable that theEgyptians. paying homage to beings above and below
Man, actually raised the brute with his instinct above Man with his
reason, in that one point of view which regarded his inspiration,as that
there are men now who look with greater awe upon an idiot or crazed
fanatic than on a rational person. In the old case, it was not the bruta-
lity, and in the modern case, it is not the folly, that is reverenced: it is
the mysterious working of mental faculty, apart from the will, which
appears to those ignorant of the powers and functions of the. brain to be
the communication of Ulterior Thought through an unconscious me~
dium.

We do not know what the Egyptians did with the bodies of animals
which they did not hold sacred. Abdallatif could ﬁnd no remains of
the camel. the horse or the ass: and on his inquiring of the old people
in the neighborhood of the Memphis mummy-pits, the hastened to
assure him that they had been struck by the absence 0 all traces of
these animals. This absence of all trace is curious in the case of ani-
mals which were not eaten.—lt is no contradiction of the supposition
that the Egyptians reverenced brutes for the possible reasons mentioned
above, that they sacriﬁced some and ate others. In some cases they
chose for sacriﬁce animals which were hated by the particular Deity in
question: as in the case of the red ox. And in eating animals not disn
Page-217
comma-ton or name. 815

liked by the gods, they might have the same idea that lies at the root
of cannibalism and human sacriﬁces,-in the South Sea islands. and
probably everywhere else. The belief, in such cases, is that the gods
wait to imbibe the spirit of the victim; and the idea is that the victim,
in passing through the gods, becomes assimilated to their nature, and
remains henceforth divine, to the extent of immortality at least, and
usually in some other respects. It is thus an honor and blessing to be
sacriﬁced; and the being eaten implies no disrespect to the perishable
frame, because the body merely follows the analogy of the spit-it's lot;
and what is honorable to the one part of the creature cannot be disgrace-
ful to the other. If the nobler part entered into the gods, the meaner
,mi ht enter into the sons of the gods.

he choice of animals for consecration and preservation was probably
determined by the characters of their instinct. Herodotus declines to
explain some particulars which were known to him, and which oer~
tainly appear to have borne. in his view, a solemn import.—-How can
we say that it would not have been so with ourselves. if we had stood.
with Herodotus, or Plato. or Pythagoras, in the inner apartments of the
priests, surrounded by the monuments of their art. and the records of
their learning, and favored with their conﬁdence about matters of the
nearest and the most general concern! lowu that in the absence of
priests and papyri. when all around was dumb and desolate, and I had
no external aid to knowledge but faded pictures of oﬂ‘erin and ﬂutter-
ing mummy , I could not resign myself to feelings o disgust and
contempt. If had been on the banks of some South African river.
seeing a poor naked savage at his Fetish worship. I must have tried to
learn what idea, however low. was at the bottom of his observance: and
here. where I knew that men had read the stars, and compassed in-
visible truths of geometry. and achieved unaccountable marvels of art.
and originated, or transmitted, the theologies of the world, I could not
despise them for one set of tenets and observances which remains unex-
plained. I might lament that analogies have been the mischievous
Will-o’-the-wisp to the human intellect that they appear to have been
in the valley of the Nile,‘as in the plains' of Asia, and the groves of
Greece, and the wilderness of Middle Age scholarship in Europe: but
this is a sorrow which one fuels in every hour of actual study, in any
country of the world. I might lament that aspiration, in its young and
irrepressible activity, must make so many ﬂights into a dim world of
dreams, and come back perplexed and disheartened before it can learn
to ﬂy up to the glorious and unfailing light of Nature. to replenish its
life: but this regret is only what one feels every day in ex loring the
only true histor of Mam—the history of Ideas. lmight ament that
the Egyptians s ould have so framed and illustrated their faith, as that
it must inevitahl become corrupted in its diffusion: but this is the re-
gret which attends the contemplation of the spread of every faith by
which mankind has yet been uided. The old Egyptian faith deteri-
orated into worshiping anima s; the Jewish into the Pharisaic super-
stitions and oppressions rebuked throughout the Gospels; and what
Christianity has become, among the widest class of its professors, let
Page-218
216 usual run.

the temples and congregations of the Greek and Latin churches show.
Amidst these natural regrets remains the comfort that the great govern-
ing Ideas of mankind.—the guiding lights of the human intellect.—
have never failed, and have scarcely suffered eclipse. The great Ideas
of Moral Obligation and strict retribution. of the supreme desirableness
of moral good. and the eternal “beauty of holiness.” pass from system
to system, immortalizing all with which they assimilate. and ﬁnally an-
nihilating all else, dispensing the best blessings that men have ever
received, and promising an increase of them In all time to come.

There was nothing else to be seen about this buried city but a tomb
or two—a sarcophagus here—a mummy-case there. On our return to
the river, we saw sights which did not tend to raise the spirits after
the depressing inﬂuence of the aspect of old Memphis. We fell in
with a wedding procession which was a sad antic exhibition. We saw
a great number of men at work upon the causeway which crosses the
plain; and a large portion of their work consisted in carrying soil in
frail-baskets. and scooping out the earth with their hands. Such is the
state of manners and art on the spot where Herodotus held counsel
with the wise men of the world. and where the greatest works of Man' s
hands were reared by means of science and art of which the world Is
not now capable!

CHAPTER XIX.

VISIT TO THE PYRAMIDS.—ASCENT OF THE GREAT PYRAMID—4N—
TERIOR.—TRADITIONS AND HISTORY AMUT THE PYRAMIDS.—
THE SPHINX.—-FAREWELL TO ANCIENT EGYPT.

Tm: day was come which I dreaded—the day of our expedition to
the Great Pyramids. I dreaded it. because [feared a sort of disap-
pointment most difficult to bear—that of failing in the sight-seeing of
the day. Since arriving at Thebes.l had not been well; and I had no
reason for conﬁdence in my strength. in a place and enterprise so new.
I had made up my mind not to be disconcerted if I should have to re-
turn without having been either up or into the Pyramid; but I was
sorry to open my eyes upon the sunrise that momin . [went over in
my mind all the stories I knew of persons who had ﬁtiled, and felt that
I had no better title to success than they. My comfort was in the
Sphinx. ‘ I should see that, at all events. It did not mend the matter
that I found that a messenger was sent to Cairo for our letters. Three
of us had had no letters of a later date than the 5th of November: and
this was the 9th of February. I knew that the winter at home was a
dreadful one—for weather, sickness and distress; and never. I think.
was I so anxious about letters from home, or so afraid to receive them.
Whatever they might be. however, they would be awaiting me on my
return.

We set out for Geezeh at half-past eight, on ﬁne handsome asses, so
Page-219
1n mumps. 217

spirited as to be almost as good to ride as horses. To-dsy we once
more came in sight of that curious sign of civilization—shaver: don-
keys. Dark rings were left round the legs, and the neck and hind-
quarters were shaven. The scarlet housings and gay rider made a
set-out very unlike what one sees of donkey-riding at home. [was
not aware till I came to Egypt how dependent a donkey is on dress.

Our ﬁrst adventure was being carried on men's shoulders over a
muddy pond which stopped the way. We knew that our plague to-
day would be from the multitude of country people who would obtrude
their services upon us. At this pond the teasing began. Our drago-
man met it vigorously. by trying to throw a pertinacious fellow, bigger
than himself, into the water. It was a desperate scufﬂe, such as would
make ladies shriek and ﬂy in England; but it came to nothing, as
usual. All the rest of the way. men joined us from the ﬁelds on
either hand, till, when we arrived at the sand, our train was sWelled to
forty.

I was surprised to ﬁnd myself disappointed in the Pyramids now,
when it had been precisely the reverse at a distance. Instead of their
growing larger as we approached, they became less and less wonder-

ul, till at last they exactly met one’s preconception, except in being
rougher, and of a brighter tint. The platform on which the largest
stands is higher than our reading had iven us to suppose; and the
Second Pyramid, which 'at a distance 100 s as large as the other, here
sinks surprisingly. This was to me the strongest evidence of the
magnitude of the Great Pyramid. Though I have spoken of disap-
pointment on a near approach. these mighty objects were perfectly ab-
sorbing, as a little incident presently proved. One of our party said.
on our arrival, “ when we were passing the Sphinx ," "O! the
Sphinx !” cried I. “ You don't mean that you have seen the Sphinx !"
To be sure they had; and they insisted on it that I had too; thatI
must have seen it—could not have missed it. I was utterly bewilder-
ed. It was strange enough to have forgotten it; but not to have seen
it, was inexplicable. However. on visiting it, later in the day, I found
I had seen it. Being intent on the Pyramid before me,I had taken
the Sphinx for a capriciously-fortned rock. like so many that we had
passed—for etting that I should not meet with limestone at Geezeh.
I rather don t whether an traveler would take the Sphinx for anything
but a rock unless he was ooking for it, or had his eye caught by some
casual light. - One other anecdote, otherwise too personal for print, will
show how engrossing is the interest of the Pyramid on the spot. The
most precious articles of property I had with me abroad were two ear-
trumpets, because. in case. of accident happening to them, I could not
supply the loss. [was unwilling to carry-my trumpet up the Pyra-
mid—knocking against the stones while I wanted my hands for climb-
ing. So I left it below. in the hands of a trusty Arab. When I joined
my party at the top of the Pyramid,I never remembered my trumpet;
nor did they: and we talked as usual, during the forty minutes we
were there, without my ever missing it. When I came down, I never
thought of it; and I explored the inside, came out and lunched, and
Page-220
218 um ms.

still never thought of my trumpet, till, at the end of three hours and a
half from my parting with it, I saw it in the hands of the Arab, and
was reminded of the astonishing fact that I had heard as well without
it as with it, all that time. Such a thing never happened before, and
probably never will again; and a stronger proof could not be oﬂ'ered of
the engrossing interest of a visit to the Pyramid.

The sheikh who met as on the spot, appointed our attendants;—
three to each of us. Mr. E. set out ﬁrm—waving an adieu to on till
we should meet aloft. He mounted with a deliberate, quiet step. such
as he could has up to the end, and reached the summit in seventeen
minutes. It too me about ﬁve minutes more.

On looking up, it was not the magnitude of the Pyramid which made
me think it scarcely possible to achieve the ascent; but the unreliered
succession,—almost inﬁnite,—of bri ht yellow steps; a most fatiguing
image E—Three strong and respects le-looking Arabs now took me in
charge. One of them, seeing me pinning up my gown in front, that I
might not stumble over it, gave me 'his services as lady's-maid. He
turned up my wn all round, and tied it in a most squeezing knot,
which lasted al through the enterprise. We set out from the north-
east corner. By far the most formidable part of the ascent was the ﬁrst
six or eight blocks. If it went on to the top thus broken and precipi-
tous. the ascent would, I felt, be impossible. Already, it was disagreea-
ble to look down, and I was much out of breath. One of my Arabs
carried a substantial camp-stool. which had been given me in Lomlm
with a view to this very adventure.—that it might divide the higher
steps.—some of which, being four feet high, seem impracticable enough
beforehand. But I found it better to trust to the. strong and steady lift-
ing of the Arabs in such places. and, above everythin , not to stop at
all, if possible; or, if one must stop for breath, to stan with one's face
to the Pyramid. I am sure the guides are right in taking people
quickly. The height is not so great. in itself: it is the way in which
it is reached that is trying to look back upon. It is trying to some
heads to sit on a narrow ledge. and see a dazzling succession of such
ledges for two or three hundred feet below; and there. a crowd of dimi-
nutive people looking up, to see whether one is coming bobbing down
all that vast staircase. I stopped for a few seconds two or three times,
at good broad corners or ledges.—When I left the angle, and found
myself ascending the side, the chief difﬁculty was over; and I cannot
say that the fatigue was at all formidable. The greater part of one’s
weight is lifted by the Arabs at each arm; and when one comes to a
four feet step, or a broken ledge. there is a third Arab behind. When
we arrived at a sort of recess. broken in the angle. my guides sported
two of their English words, crying out “ Half-way !" with great glee.
The last half was easier than the ﬁrst; and I feltI what proved to be
true, that both must be easierthan the coming down. Iarrived second,
and was kindly welcomed to that extraordinary spot by Mr. E. Mrs. Y.
appeared presently after; and lastly, Mr. Y. ;—all in good spirits.

I was agreeably surprised to ﬁnd at the top, besides blocks standing
up which gave us some shade. a roomy and even platform, where we
Page-221
m "sums. 219

might sit and write, and gaze abroad,and enjoy ourselves, without even
seeing over the edge, unless we wished it. There was only the lightest
possible breeze, just enough to fan our faces, without disturbing us.
The reason of our ascendingthe Pyramid ﬁrst. before going into it, was
that we mi ht take advantage of an hour of calm, and avoid the incon-
venience of the wind which might spring up at noon. And most for-
tunate we were in our weather, and in all other particulars. It was a
lorions season,-—-full of new delight, without drawback t—for I now
gen to think I might perhaps see the inside of the Pyramid too.

Here are my notes of what we saw from the top ;—a hei ht of 480
feet. I‘ Bearings by compass. In a line from us to the orth, the
hager (sandy plain) joins the fertile land, a blue stream ﬂowing between
them, and the line being wavy, and having a sprinkling of palms to-
wardsthe North. In this northern direction, the green plain extends
to the furthest horizon,’and over to Cairo eastwards. It is dotted with
villages,—clusters of brown houses among palms.-—and watered with
blue thread-like canals, and showing a faint line of causeway here and
there.—E. by N., stands up the citadel of Cairo, the city stretching
north-westwards from it. Behind the city, some way round to the
N.N.E., is a low ridge of sand hills: and the other way, southwards,
the Mokuttam range, which looks higher the higher one mounts.
Round from hence are sandy hills, with alluvion‘and canals between
them and us, as far as the 8.13., where the Nile wanders away, and
the Abooseer Pyramids rise. S.S.E. are the Sakkira Pyramids; and
from them, round the rest of the landscape, all is desert,—-terribly arid
and glaring. In the midst of the sand, a train of camels, wonderfully
diminutive, is winding along, and a few brown Arab tents are pitched,
not far from the foot of the Pyramid. Off our S.W. corner is the
Second Pyramid, standing in its sunken area, surrounded by walls, and
showing by the casing that is left how much ﬁner these Pyramids must
have looked before they were so dismantled—Beyond this, lies the
little one."—This was what we saw; and long we gazed in every
direction :——-most pathetically perhaps to the South, where we had seen
and left so much; or over into the Delta, which we should enter no
more, and which lay so rich and lovely between our eyes and the
horizon, that it seemed to be melting-away. We began letters to friends
at home, drank some water, intrepidly carried up by a little Arab girl;
mounted the highest block, to get as near the sky as we could; and
then found that we really must be going down.

The descent was fatiguing; but not at all alarming. Between step-
pin , jumping, and sliding, with full reliance on the strength and care
oft 6 guides, the descent may be easily accomplished in ten minutes;
—-as far, that is, as the height of the entrance to the Pyramid, which
is some way from the bottom. We had bargained before starting that
we should not be asked for rbaksheesh “ while going up the Pyramid.”
Our guides took this literally, and began begging, the moment we put
our feet upon the summit. And all the way down, my guides never
let me alone, though they knew I had no money about me. They
were otherwise extremely kind, giving me the beneﬁt of their other
Page-222
220 usual ma;

two words of English. On my jumping down a particularly high block.
they patted me on the back, crying. with approving nods, “Ah! ah !
good morning; good morning!” I joined my party at the beautiful
entrance to the Pyramid, where a large assemblage of Arabs was ranged
on the rising stones opposite to us, li e a hill-side congregation waiting
for the preacher.

I resolved that morning not to be induced by any pleasure or triumph
of the hour to tell people that it is ver easy to go up and into the Py-
ramid. To determined and practise people it is easy; but not, pro-
bably, to the majority. I would not recommend any one to do it of
whose nerve I was not sure. To the tranquil, the inside of the Pyra-
mid is sufﬁciently airy and cool for the need of the hour. But it is a
dreadful place in which to be seized with a panic: and no woman
should go who cannot trust herself to put down panic by reason.
There is absolutely nothing to fear but from one's self ; no danger of
bad falls, or of going astray, or of being stiﬂed. The passages are slip-
pery: but there are plent of notches; and a fall could hardly be dam

rous—unless at one lime—the entrance upon the passage to the

ing’s Chamber. We knew beforehand that there were airspassages
from that chamber to the outside ; and when I walked about before ex-
amining the place, and questioned my senses, I was surprised to ﬁnd
how little oppressive heat, and how much air there really was. The
one danger is from the impression upon the senses of the solidity and
vastness of the stone structure in such darkness. Almost any nerves
may be excused for giving way under the sight of that passa e and
that chamber ;—the whole, even the roof. being constructed of locks
of dark ranite, so joined as that the edge of a penlmife could not be
inserted tween them. The passage runs up, a steep inclined plane,
with its lines on either hand. and its notches in front, retiring almost to
a vanishing point, other grooves and projections high up the side walls
apparently coming down to the same vanishing point, and all closed in
b the ponderous ceiling. at such a height as to be well nigh lost in
g 00m. The torches of the Arabs glare near the eye. and perplex the
vision by their ﬁtful shining on the granite walls; and at the same
time, the lights in advance or far behind are like waving glow-worm
sparks. There is nothing else like it ;—no catacomb or cavern in the
world; there never was. and surely there never will be. I have spent
the greater part of two da s in the Mammoth Cave of Kentucky; a
place generally consideregawful enough: but compared with this. it
was like a drawing-room to a cellar. The fantastic character of its
walls and roofs takes off from the impression of its vastness and gloom.
Here, the symmetry and ﬁnish so deepen the gloom as to make this
seem like a ﬁt prison-house for fallen angels. Notwithstanding the
plain view we obtained in the chamber of the enormous longitudinal

locks of the ceiling. the impression was less tremendous than in the
descending passage. from the inferior vastness. There is nothing but
the structure itself to be seen. except the sarcophagus near one end.
It is sadly broken: but it still rings like a bell, when struck on the
side. The granite is blackened by time; but its grain is seen where
Page-223
was me. 221

it has been chipped by those who were in search of the air-holes. The
prodigious portcullises of granite in the passage were more visible to
us in going down than in ascending: and how they came there was
an oppressive speculation in itself. It must be remembered that this
structure. with its wonderful art and bewildering grandeur, was the
work of the men of ﬁve thousand years ago. It dates from the earlier
part of the First Period, and, is’the oldest monument known to exist in
the world. If this is, to us, the beginning of the Arts—this. which
manifests the existence of so many appliances of art unknown to us
now, how are we to speculate on what went before? and how com-
pletely do we ﬁnd ourselves thrown out in all our notions of the dura-
tion of the human race !

0n returning, two of our party had had enough of Pyramid search-
ing. 1 and another had not; and we proceeded to the Queen's Cham-
ber, along the passage, above which we had ascended to the King’s.
This assage was not so low as we had expected. It only required no
to w k steeping. The chief interest about the Queen's Chamber is
from its being under the apex of the Pyramid; which the King's is
not. Its ceiling is on this account pointed. like the great entrance.
There are also ﬁve small, rough chambers above it, evidently put there
to lessen the superincumbent weight. Though this chamber is smaller
than the King’s, it seems to be distinguished by being under the apex;
and also bya niche, rather elaborately wrought. A pit has been opened
below this niche, by searchers. and the rubbish thrown into a corner.
Sir G. Wilkinson wishes that, if further search is made here for the
king's body, it should be by looking under this niche. M great de-
sire would be to have the Pyramid explored down to the fhwest part
where any traces of works could be found. Works carried down so
low must have some purpose; and it might be well worth our while to
discover what. It is not satisfactory to my mind to suppose the “sub-
terranean structures" intended merely to let the workmen out, after
they had closed the upper passage with its [granite portcullis. ,The
great diﬁculty, in exploring the yramid—a er the expense and toil
of tting to work at all—is from the wonderful way in which these
ancient builders closed the passages. Their huge granite portcullises.
blocking up the way. are almost insuperable. It is hard to distinguish
them from other blocks, and to guess when there is a passage behind;
and then it is ve hard to get round them. [have astrong impres-
sion myself that, a ter all the wonders our pains-taking and disinterested
antiquarian travelers have laid open. there is much more behind. and
that the exploration of the Pyramid is only just begun. If it be true
that some one ﬁred a pocket-pistol within the Pyramid. and that the
echoes were countless—the reverberation going on for an astonishin
length of time—it seems as if the ediﬁce might be honeycombed wit
chambers. But for these unmanageable granite portcullises, what»
mi ht we not learn ! ,

t becomes us. however. to begrateful for what we have learned.
Colonel Howard Vyse has laid the world under great obligations by his
generous and laborious exertions. He made, among many discoveries,
Page-224
$22 amass man.

one of inestimable importance. He found inscribed in the Pyramid, in
the most antique style, the names of the Pharaohs who raised these
ediﬁces: and they turn out to be the same given by Herodotus and
Manetho. It is now ascertained. beyond all doubt, that these Pyramids
are the work of Pharaohs of the fourth dynasty ;—that is, of kingseerly
succeeding Manes, and living near the beginning of the First Period of
Egyptian history.

I suppose every one knows the account iven by Herodotus of the
building of this pyramid ;—how Cheops eased the temples, stopped
the sacriﬁces. and made are body work for him :—how some. quar-
ried the stone in the Arabian ills, and others conveyed it to the river
and over a bridge of boats; and others drew it to the spot where it was
wanted :—and how it could be carried and mounted only by a causeway
which of itself took ten years to construct, and which was a ﬁne work,
with its polished stones and ﬁgures of animals engraved on them :—
how 100,000 men were employed at a time, and were relieved by the
same number at the end of three months: how, besides the ten years
occupied by the causeway. much was required for levelin the rock
on which the ediﬁce stands, and twenty years for the building of the
'p ramid itself:—-how a machine, made of short pieces of wood, was
p seed on every step, as the work proceeded, to raise the stones for the
step above; and how the ﬁlling in of these gradations, forming the last
smooth surface, was begun from the top:—-how this surface bore en-
graved, so that Herodotus himself saw it, an inscription which told the
expense of the ‘vegetables eaten by the laborers during the pro ress of
the work: and how confounded the traveler declares himsel to be,
judging from the sum spent in vegetables. at the thought of the expendi-
ture further necessary for the rest of the food and the clothes of the
workmen, and their Iron tools. during the long course of years uired
for the whole series of works,—amongst which, by the way, e in-
cludes the “ subterranean structures" which he again mentions, as made
by the king, "for purpose of sepulture, in an island formed by the
waters of the Nile, which he introduced into them by a canal."

All this narrative, thus brieﬂy glanced at, is known to everybody
who cares about Egypt: and everybody has no doubt been struck by
this testimony to the use of iron tools. and the existence of polished
stones, machinery. writing and engraving, between ﬁve and six thousand
years .—But everybody may not know what evidence we have of
the soli ity and extraordinary vastness of these works, in the impossi-
bilit which has been found of taking them to pieces. This evidence
we ave through our useful middle age witness, Abdallatif, whose book
is so little known that I may be rendering a service by translating some

relating to his visits to the pyramids in or about A. D. 1 I90.

Ab allatif begins with the same thought which sug sted the noble
saying, “ All things dread Time: but Time dreads the yramids.” He
says—

"The form which has been adopted in the construction of the Py-

' Herod. H. 124.
Page-225
mm ass

ramids, and the solidity which has been given them are well worthy
of admiration. It is to their form that they owe the advantage of hav-
ing resisted the hostility of centuries: or rather. it seems as if it were
Time which has resisted the opposition of these eternal ediﬁces. ln-
deed, when we meditate deeply on the construction of the Pyramids.
we are compelled to acknowledge that men of the greatest genius have
here employed in combination their best powers; and that the subtlest
minds have exhausted their deepest resources; that the most enlightened
souls have exercised in profusion all the abilities that they possessed
which could be applied to these constructions; and that the wisest
theory of geometry as employed all its means to produce these wonders,
as the last point of astonishment which it was possible to reach. Thus
we may say that these ediﬁces speak to us now of those who reared
them. teach us their history, open to us in an intelligible manner the
progress which they had made in the sciences. and the excellence
of their abilitiesz—in a word, they put us in possession of the life and
actions of the men of those days.“ Alter telling how the Pyramids
are placed witha regard to the points of the oompass.and how this.
breaks the force of the wind, and what the gross measurements are. he
goes on :—M Their pyramidal ﬁgure is truncated; and the. summit
oﬂ'ers thereby a level of ten cubite every way. Hero is a thing which
I myself observed. When I visited them, there was in our party an
archer. who let ﬂ an arrow in the direction of the perpendicular height
of one of these gymmids. and in that of its thickness (its base): and
the arrow fella little short of midwayJ We learned that in the neigh-
boring village there were eople accustomed to mount the pyramid,
who did it without any di why. We sent for one of these men: and
for a triﬂe which we gave him. he set off up the pyramid,aswe should
to mount a staircase, and even quicker. without putting at? either his
shoes, or his garments, which were very ample. I had desired him to
measure. with his turban,the area at the top, when he gotthere. When
he came down. we took the measure of his turban, as it answered to
thatot‘ the area at the summit. We found itto be eleven cubits. by
the measure of the original cubit.”—lt does not seem to have occurred.
to the vephysician to go up himself. It is a pity that he could not
know t t ladies would accomplish the last, seven centuries after him.
If,» he had looked abroad from the summit, what would he have done for
words to express his ruptures l He goes on to show how much less he
dared than we :—

“ One of these two pyramids is open.and offers an entrance by which
the interior may be visited. This 0 ening leads to narrow passages. to
conduits which go down to a great epth, and to wells and meet ices,
as we are assured by such persons as have courage to explore t em:
for there are many people who are tempted by a foolish avarice and
chimerical hopes into the interior of this ediﬁce. They plunge into

' Relation de l‘Egypte, Livre 1. ch. 4.
1’ It is well known that the ground covered by the Great Pyramid is e us! to the

area of Lincoln’s Inn Fields, and 50 feet over, every way ;—say, Lincoln nn Fields
and the row of surrounding houses.
Page-226
214 Ian-mun.

deep recesses, and come at last to a place where they ﬁnd it impossible
to penetrate further. As for the most frequented and ordinarily used
passage. it is a glacis which leads to the upper part of the pyramid.
where there is a square chamber; and in this chamber a sarcophagus
of stone."

Up to a recent date, there have been doubts whether the pyramid
was open so long ago as this. and whether, therefore, the tradition was
true which declares that Caliph Mamoou opened it, somewhere about
am. 820. It is clear that in Abdallatif’s time there was no novelty in
its standing open: and there seems no reason to doubt the narrative
given by Arab writers of the opening by Caliph Mamoon. One of
them. Abdel Hﬁkm, declares that a statue resembling a man (a mummy-
case, no doubt), was found in the sarcophagus; and within the statue,
a human body, with a breasbplate of gold and jewels, bearing written
characters which no one understood. Abdallatif says—-

" The opening by which the interior of the pyramid is reached at
this day is not the original entrance; it is a hole begun at random. and
made by force. It is said it was the Caliph Mamoon who made it.
The ﬁesta rt of our company entered it. and went up to the higher
cham r. hen they came down, they gave marvelous accounts of
what they had seen; and they said that this passage was so full of
bats and their dirt that it was almost stopped up: that the bats were
nearly as large as pigeons; and that there were to be seen in the upper
part, open spaces and windows which seemed to have been intended
to admit air and light.—ln another visit which I made to the Pyramids.
I entered this interior passage with several persons, and went about
two-thirds of the way along it: but having become insensible through
the fear which struck me in this ascent, I came down again. half dead.

“These pyramids are constructed of great stories, from ten to twenty
cubits long. and two or three cubits in the breadth and thickness.
The most admirable particular of the whole is the extreme nicety with
which these stones have been prepared and adjusted. Their adjust-
ment is so precise that not even a needle or a hair can be inserted be-
tween any two of them. They are joined by a cement laid on to the
thickness of a sheet of paper. I cannot tell what this mortar is made
of, it being of a substance entirely unknown to me. These stones are
covered with writing in that unknown character whose import is at
this day wholly unlawum. I have not met in Egypt with any penon
who could say that he knew. even by hearsay, of any one who under-
stood this character. Theac inscriptions are so multitudt’nous, that if
those only which are seen on the surface of there two yramt‘drwere
copied upon paper, more than ten thousand page: we beﬁlled with
them.”

For “pages," Pococke here translates “books." When we remem-
ber that Abdallatif is telling us what he himself saw, we cannot but
admit this particular of his simple narrative. He goes on:

“I have read in some books of the ancient Sabeans, that. of these
two pyramids. one is the tomb of Agathodemon, and the other that of
Hermes. These are, they any, two great prophets; but Agathodemon
Page-227
m names. 225

is the older and tar of the two. They say that from all the noun.
tries of the worltﬁmpeople come in pilgrimage to these two pyramids.—
Iu my great work, I have enla ed upon this subject; and I have re-
lated what others have said of t cos ediﬁces. To that account I refer
those who desire further details. Here, I limit myself to what I have
myself seen. '

" When Melic-alsziz 0thman-ben-Yousouf had succeeded his father,
he let himself be persuaded by some of his courtiers,—foolish people,
—to demolish these pyramids: and they began with the red' pyramid,
which is the third and smallest of the three great p ramids.

“The Sultana sent there his sappers, miners an quarrymen, under
the superintendeuce of some of the principal ofﬁcers and ﬁrst Emirs
of his court, and gave them orders to destroy it. To execute these
orders, they established their camp near the pyramid: they collected
there a multitude of laborers from all quarters, and maintained them
at great cost. They remained there eight entire months, occupied,
with all their people, in executing their commission, carrying away,
each day, after extreme exertion and exhaustion, two or three stones.
Some pushed them from above with wedges and levers, while others
drew them awa from the base with ropes and cables. Whenever one
of these stones ell, it made a fearful noise. which echoed far 08‘, shook
the earth, and made the hills tremble. By its fall, it was buried in the
sand; and then. great eﬂ'orts were made to remove it; after which the
people wrought grooves for the wedges to enter; and thus the stones
were split into several pieces :—then each fragment was placed upon
a car, to be carried to a mountain a little way all, and thrown out at its
foot.

“Alter the company had remained a long time encamped on this
spot, when their pecuniary means were all expended, while their trouble
and fatigue went on increasing, and their resolution growing weaker,
day by day, and their strength was utterly exhausted, they were ob-'
liged ignominiously to quit their enterprise. Far from obtaining the
result they had anticipated, and succeeding in their design, they ended
by doing nothing but spoiling the pyramid, and evidencing their own
powerlessness. This passed in the year 593, (ml). 1196.) When one
now looks at the stones brought down in the course of the demolition,
one is persuaded that the p ramid has been destroyed from its foun-
dation: but when, on the ot or hand, one looks up at the pyramid, one
behaves that it has suffered no injury whatever, and that nothing has
happened but the paring off of a portion of the casing on one of its
s1 es.

“ Observing one day what extremely heavy work it was to remove a
single stone, I addressed one of the superintendents who was directing
the workmen, and put this question to him—l If any one olfered you a
thousand pieces of gold to replace one of these stones, and adjust it as
it was before, do you think you could accomplish it ?’ His answer was

' So called from its being made of red granite.
15
Page-228
226 ass-nut m.

that if many times as much was offered, they could not do such a thing;
and this he aﬂirmed with an oath.”"

I fear that all such descriptions are thrown away, in regard to the
object of giving to the readers of them any idea of what the Pyramids
are. They are useful as records. however. and extremely interesting to
travelers in going over the ground. As for the impression,—there is
nothing like the momentary sensation of seeing the blue daylight at the
top of the entrance passage, when one is on one’s way out. More real
astonishment is felt at that moment than from reading all (he descrip-
tions of all authors.

After resting for luncheon on a block on the east side of the Pyra-
mids, we visited some tombs, very interesting from their extreme anti—
quity. but too much like those of Benee Hasan to justify description
here. The preparations for feasts. numbering stock. &c.. go on here
as ehewhere. showing that people lived between ﬁve and six thousand
years ago, much as they do now. It was hereabouts that that precious
ring was found which ought to be in the British Museum, but which
remains in the hand of Dr. Abbott. at Cairo—the gold ring of Cheaps.
with his cartouche cut upon it. In Dr. Abbott’s possession, too, are some
gold ornaments with “Manes" marked upon them. Treasures of such
singular value as these should surely be national property.

And now the time was come for visiting the Sphinx. What a mon-
strous idea was it from which this monster sprang! True as I think
Abdallatif's account of it, and just as is his admiration.l feel that a
stranger either does not see the Sphinx at all, or he sees it as a night-
mare. When we ﬁrst passed it, I saw it only as a stran looking
rock; an oversi ht which could not have occurred in the oden time.
when the head iore the royal helmet or the ram’s horns. Now I was
half-afraid of it. The full serene gaze of its round face, rendered ugly
lﬁy the loss of the nose, which was a very handsome feature of the old

gyptian face—this full gaze and the stony calm of its attitude almost
turn one to stone. So life-like—,-so huge—so monstrous—it is really a.
fearful spectacle. I saw a man sitting in a fold of the neck, as a ﬂy
might settle on a horse’s mane. In that crease he reposed, while far
over his head extended the vast penthouse of the jaw, and above that.
the dressed hair on either side the {see—each hunch a mass of stone
which might crush a dwelling house. In its present state. its propor-
tions cannot be obtained; but Sir G. Wilkinson tells us? “Pliny as it
measured from the belly to the highest part of the head sixty-three set;
its length was one hundred and forty-three; and, the circumference of
its head round the forehead one hundred and two feet—all cut out in
the natural rock, and worked smooth." Fancy the long well-opened
eyes, in such proportion as this-eyes which have gazed unwinkin
into vacancy, while mighty Pharaohs, and Hebrew law-givers. an
Persian princes, and Greek philosophers, and Anthony with Cleopatra
by his side, and Christian anchorites, and Arab warriors, and European

' Relation de l’Egypte, Livrs 1., ch. 4.
1‘ Modern Egypt and Thebes, I. 356.
Page-229
mar-um. 387

men of science, have been brought hither in suecesion by the unpaus-
ingagea to look up into those eyes—so full of meaning. thou b so ﬁxed!
We have here a record of the Egyptian complexion. or of the yptians'
own notion of it, as well as of the characteristic features of the race.
There is red paint on the face, of the same tint as the complexions in
the tombs. The face is (supposin the nme restored) much like the
Berber countenance. The long mil eye. the thick but not protuberant
lips, (lips like Malibran’s, and like no others that I ever saw in Europe.)
and the projecting jaw. with the intelligenh gentle expression of the
whole face, are very like what one sees in Nubia at every village.
That man sitting in the fold of the neck was a happy accident. It en-
abled one to estimate proportions, when looking up from below. and to
learn how it was that religious processions marched up between its
paws to the temple sheltered by its breast. I could see how the cane-
tuary and altar of sacriﬁce might very well stand there, so towered over
by the neck and head as that the savor of the sacriﬁces might rise
straight up into its nostrils. The granite tablet above this altar is visi-
ble, peeping out of the sand in the hollow. The ridge of the back is
above and, and I walked along it from the neck to the root of the
tail. I only the we could be kept uncovered, it would much improve
our conception 0 this strange work—perhaps. as my journal observes,
the strangest object I ever saw.

While riding away, I turned to give a last look, and was struck with
the ugliness of the scene. The P ramids lessened in height from
north to south, and were scattered a ut without evident plan; tombs
yawned in the yellow rocks; the Sphinx lay low, and seemed to belong
to nothing; and the whole vast. desolate circuit of monuments was in-
cumbered by rubbish. This was my last glimpse into the ancient
world, except that I had the obelisk at Heliopolis yet to see. This was
my last clear view into the times of the vanished race. As I turned
my face towards Cairo, the cloud curtain was again drawn over the
living and moving scene which I had studied for so long, and anything
more that I might learn must be by thought and not by sight.

The amount of what one does learn by the eye is ver great—really
astonishing in the case of a people whose literature is oat. instead or
remaining as an indication of what one is to look for, and a commentary
on what one sees. What do we not owe to their turn for engraving
and painting! Here is a people remainin onl , as one may say. in
the abstract l—living only in the ideas they nve uanthed to us,and
in the undecayed works of their hands. No one of that great race sur-
vives; we have their corpses in plenty, but not a breathing man left of
them all. We do not know what their complexion was: their langua
is lost, except as studious men pick it up, word by word, with pain ul
uncertainty, from an obscure cypher. But, phantoms as they are to us.
how much do they teach us!

They teach us to be modest and patient in regard to our knowledge
of the ancient world, by showing us that while we have been talking
conﬁdently of the six thousand years of human existence, and about
who was who in the earliest days, we have in reality known nothing
Page-230
ass aura-sun.

about it. They rebuke us suﬁciently in showing us that at that time
men were living very much as we do. without some knowledge that we
have gained. but in possession of some arts which we have not. They
confound us by their mute exhibitions of their iron tools and steel ar-
mor. their great range of manufactures. and their feasts and sports. so
like our own. In their kitchens they decant wine by a syphou. and
strew their sweet cakes with seeds. and pound their apices in a mortar.
In the drawing-room. they lounge on chaises-longues. and the ladies
knit and net as we do. and darn better than we can. I saw at Dr. Al»
bott’s a piece of mending left unﬁnished several thousand years ago,
which an Englishwoman might be satisﬁed with or proud of. In the
nursery t e little girls had dolls—jointed dolls. with hunchy hair and
long eyes—as our dolls have blue eyes and fair treason. And the b
biee had, not the woolly bow-wow dogs which yelp in our our-aria.
but little wooden crocodiles with snapping jaws. 1n the country we
see the agriculturist taking stock. and in the towns the population
divided into castes, subject to laws. and livi under a theocracy. long
before the supposed time of the Deluge. here is enough here to
use]: us some humility and patience about the true history of the
wor .

We almost lose sight of the evidences of their ways that they have
left us in recognizing the Ideas that they have recorded and transmit-
ted. Here the were. nearl two thousand years before the birth 9‘
Abraham, wors iping One upreme God, and owning him for their
king. appointing for his agent and chief servant as their ruler. a prieﬂ
whom they called his son. They recognized his moral government-7
always strictly a moral government. throu h how many hands soever 1‘
might be administered—whether those of his personiﬁed attributes. 01'
those of his human instruments. The highest objects set before these
people were purity of life and rectitude of conduct. Their higheﬁ
aspirations were directed to the cry and favor of God in this life!!!fl
acceptance by him hereafter. heir conceptions of death were that It
was a to an eternal existence, where a divine benefactor, sent
to dispense t e mercies of the Supreme, had gone before them. hﬂlnl
submitted to death, in order to overcome the power of evil, and '7'"
had. therefore. been raised from among the dead. when his prob-"0"
in Hades was ended. and made the eternal Judge of the living and the
dead. These whom he judged favorably had their names written}!I
the book of Life. and were brought to taste of the tree of Life. which
would make them to be as gods; after which they were to enjoy sud!
bliss as it has not entered into men’s hearts to conceive. The whiled
were meanwhile to undergo shame and anguish till they had explll‘l
the very last sin, or were to be destroyed.

They believed the creation to have taken place as they annually 3"
re-creation take place. They said that the Spirit of the Supt!!!“°
moved on the face of the waters; and that the d land appeared 1‘
his bidding. yielding vegetation first, and then an' They believet‘l
in a substantial ﬁnnament, wherein the sun and mom were [1W
which were privileged to travel, with the spirits of the virtuous in W“
Page-231
axon" terms. 2“

train, through a long series 'of Mansions in the great abode of the Sn-
preme. They taught that every mind, whether of man or brute, was
an emanation from the Supreme ; and that the bod was only its abode
and instrument; the soul being, from its nature an derivation, immor-
tal.

Such were the Ideas transmitted to other countries and to future races
by this very ancient people. That such were their ideas, we know by
a far surer medium than tradition—though that also is not wanting. By
the hearing of the ear. and the sympathy of the mind, they transmitted
these Ideas in their living force. By their sculptures, their paintings
and their legends, they immutabl recorded them.

All knowledge is sacred. Al truth is divine. It is not for us to
mix up passion and prejudice with our perception of new facts. We
may not like to be perplexed by new knowled e which throws us out
of some notions which we took for knowled e fore. We are apt to
feel our own spiritual privileges lessened by its appearing that they
were held for many ages before the time which we had supposed. It
might be enough to leave the minds of students of the past to subside
an grow tranquil, (as minds always do, sooner or later,) in the sublime
presence of facts; but I would just ask whether the great guiding Ideas
of mankind are the more or the less venerable for having wrou ht for
some thousands of years longer than we had ima ined; and w ether
it is or is not a testimony to the power of those I eas that they raised
into spiritual light a race which thereby became the greatest in the sup
cient world, preserved their empire through a longer duration than that
of any other known people, and were made the source of enlighten-
ment to nations then and still unborn. If, weak in our partial know-
ledge, and in the prejudices of our whole lives, we need reconciling to
the facts of the Egyptian history of Mind, I think these testimonies to
the power and saving character of these venerable Ideas may havea
cheering emcacy, and can have no other.

Here, as I said. the volume of ancient Egyptian history was closed
to us. We had Cairo before our eyes as we rode away, and found let-
ters from England on board our boat—happy letters which were a re-
buke to our anxiety—at least I may say this for myself.

We were not injuriously fatigued by our most successful excursion;
rather tired in the evening, and very stiff the next day; but nobody
ill, and everybody well satisﬁed. It was no satisfaction to any of us
that our Nile voyage was over; but this was an inevitable misfortune;
and we bare it as well as we could.
Page-232
3“ um“ urn.

CHAPTER XX.

INU'NDA'I'ION OF THE NILEr—FAMINE IN EGYPT.

WI hear so much of the regularity of the overﬂow of the Nile, that
we are apt to forget that it may fail, or to contemplate the consequences
in such a case. It is true, we read of the seven years of famine in
Joseph‘s time; but we think of that as a kind of miracle, and do not
ask whether such a misfortune ever happened again. when a less
sagaeious and politic minister than Joseph was at the head of aﬂ'airs.
There is some information extant about this; and it may be of sufﬁcient
interest to justify us in dwelling upon it a little.

It is arousing to observe how, according to Herodotus,the Egyptians
and Greeks pitied each other for their respective ways of having their
lands watered. The priests told Herodotus of a time when a rise of
eight cabits sufﬁced to water the land below Memphis; whereas “now,”
he says,’ “ if the river does not rise sixteen cubits,f or at least ﬁfteen,
it does not cover the ﬁelds. If the land continues to rise in the same prt»
portion."—(a proportion which he calculated on mistaken dates. as the
event has shown.) " and to receive the same augmentations as hitherto.
the Nile no longer covering it with its waters. it seems to me that the
Egyptians who dwell below Lake Maris, and in other districts, and
especially in what is called the Delta. must continually experience at
last the same fate as that with which they suppose the Greeks to be
threatened, sooner or later; for, having learned that the whole of Greece
is watered by rains, and not by the inundation of the rivers,as in their
country, they say that if the Greeks should ever be disappointed of
their hopes, they would run the risk of perishing miserably by famine.
By this they mean to convey that if, instead of raining in Greece, there
should come a drought, they would die of hunger, because they have
no other resource than the waters of the sky.—This reﬂection of the
Egyptians upon the Greeks is just; but now let us see to what extremity
they themselves may be reduced. If it should happen, as I said be-
fore, that the region below Memphis. which is that which receives ac-
cumulations. should go on rising as it has done hitherto, must it not
certainly happen that the Egy tians who inhabit it must experience
the horrors of famine, since it oes not min in their countr , and the
river can no longer overspread their ﬁelds! But there is no y now,
in the rest ot' Egypt, or even in the whole world, who obtains a harvest

' Herod. II. 13.

1‘ The priests were possibly speaking ofa diﬂ‘ercnt measure ”cm the cubit of the
time of Herodotus. The cuhit originally signiﬁed the length from the bend of the
elbow to the end of the middle ﬁnger. It is believed that among the Hebrews there
were two whit-measures;—one of 18 inches, and the other or 21 inches. Sir G.
Wilkinson gives the cuhit at the Nilometer at Elephantine as measuring If ﬂ.—i. c.
19‘ inches. There were 28 digits in a cubit.
Page-233
munnnrox on ma NM. 231

with less care and toil."—After all these wise and kind apprehensions
on each other's account. the people of neither of the two countries have
seen the other lapse into desert, or the, inhabitants exterminated by a
permanent failure of water. Seedtime and harvest have not yet ceased.
—In Egypt, however, they have intermitted ;, and terrible have those
seasons been. Abdallatif’s account of one of them is dreadful to read,
at the end of nearl seven centuries. -

One is ﬁlled wit astonishment at the constancy of the overﬂow, and
the regularity of its amount. when one learns what are the consequences
of a small diminution or excess of the ordinary quantity; and perhaps
it is as per lexing to men of science as to other people that such regu-
larity shou d accrue from any such sources as those to which the inun-
dation of the Nile has yet been attributed. If the Messrs. Abbadie
should return in safety to Europe, to tell us what they believe they
have discovered respecting the fountains of the Nile, we may know
something ere long which may relieve our perplexity. Meantime, it
appears to us one of the chief wonders of the natural world that the
mountains of Abyssinia should so punctually gather the clouds about
them, and entice the rains, as to send out streams of the same force,
which shall water two thousand miles of country to within a few inches
of the same height, and a few hours of the same time, year by year, for
as many ages as are known to man. i

The highest point reached by the inundation, and very rarely
reached, is a little above nineteen cubits. In this case. much cultiva-
ble land remains so long submerged that the sowing cannot take place;
and it is as barren as a desert for that year, while some spots which
are ordinarily dry yield a harvest for once. Of course, there is a great
destruction of dwellings and of stock in this case. When the rise
reaches eighteen cubits, there is great rejoicing. for the produce is then
sufﬁcient for two years' consumption. after the government dues are
paid. When it reaches sixteen cubits, there is enou h produce for the
wants of the year; and this was called, in Abdallati ’s time, “the Sul-
taun’s ﬂood,” because then the Sultaun claimed his taxes. Below six-
teen cubits, there is more or less scarcity. In such a case the south
wind has prevailed: and in good years, the north.

The lowest Nile ever known seems to have been that of a. n. 966,
when the waters rose only to twelve cubits, seventeen digits: and the
next lowestwas in A. n. 1199, when it rose only four digits higher. For
four centuries before the earliest of these dates, the Nile had only six
times failed to reach fourteen cubits; and about twenty times only had
it stopped short of ﬁfteen cubits. The inundation begins about the
twenty-ﬁfth of June, and reaches its height in three months. It re»
mains stationary about twelve days, and then begins to subside.

Niebuhr gives a full account of popular methods of divination as to
What the Nile will be pleased to do that year. The Mohammedans
believe. he says.‘ that the fall of a drop of water from heaven upon a
place in Abyssinia is the cause of the inundation ; and that this drop

° Voyage en Arabic, tom. I. p. 104.
Page-234
292 ‘ umrtn Lin.

falls on the night of the 17th and 18th of June. As the Mohammedan
months vary, they use the Coptic time for this calculation. On that
night, about every second house in Cairo had, in Niebuhr’s time. a
piece of paste laid out upon the roof; and if it was found heavierin the
morning than at night, it was a settled matter that the Drop had fallen
in Abyssinia, and that there would be a good Nile. We should sup-
pose this to be owing to a heavy dew: but the people would have it
that it was of no consequence whether the paste was laid out within
the house or on the roof. Another method was to expose equal wei hts
of dry Nile soil and water; if, in the morning, the earth had suc ed
up all the water, it would be a sterile year; if any remained, there
would be a good ﬂood. Niebuhr tried this experiment repeatedly;
and there was always water remaining: whence he drew the conclu-
sion that the soil of the valle will notabsorb its own Weight of water.
Another opular method of ivination was to set out on the house-tops
at night, ittle paper-boxes containin a small portion of wheat. Each
box was inscribed with the name 0 a Coptic month; and all were of
equal weight. The box which was heaviest in the morning showed
in what month the inundation would reach its height. As was natural,
the people tried to learn a little more while they were about it; and
some fortune-telling was joined with the other experiments. The best
informed eople lau bed at the whole matter as an amusement of the
women : t nevert eless, about every other house in Cairo had some-
thing laid out upon its roof on the night of the 17th of June. The
Christians were in no way behind the Mohammedans in their experi-
ments. They had their paste and their Nile soil, and their calculations
of uncertain times, connectin their Observances, however, with their
saints’ days. They professe a caution greater than their neighbors
thought of; declaring that unless three ot' their experiments yielded the
same result, none were to be relied on.

The people dreaded falling stars at this time of year. Learned men
said that if they all tended to the same point of the heavens, this indi-
cated only what winds would prevail: and the winds are largely con-
cerned in the inundation. Learned and ignorant seem to have agreed
that if these meteors abounded in the whole sky, it was a forewarning
of a low Nile; and also of political troubles. In A. D. 902, fiery mete—
ors ﬁlled the air: and lo ! the Nile rose only to thirteen cubils, and the
dynasty of the Tooloonides was overthrown; the last of them reigning
only ten days. Again, in a. o. 912, the same signs occurred, and were
followed by scarcity and civil war. Abdallatil' observes, after quoting
the chronicler who tells these things, “ These are certainly very strong
indications; but they are common to all countries, and not peculiar to
Egypt. But we observed the same things in this year (a. n. 1199).
At the beginning of the year (Mohammedan) stars darted across the
sky; and at the end, the waters were ver low : and in this same Year.
the Sovereign who ruled in Egypt was ethroued by his uncle Malic-
aladel. after they had been at war." He tells as elsewhere, however,
that an ambassador from Abyssinia brought to Cairo, in Au ust of that
year, a letter from his sovereign, (about appointing a new atriarch in
Page-235
maximum! or was NILE. 238

the place of the one who had just died ;) in which letter it was stated
that the rains had that season been very moderate; and that this was
the reason of the lowness of the Nile.

It is a sign of a bad inundation if the waters of the river have a green
tinge and a bad odor at the time of the visible rise of the ﬂood. The
aquatic mm and vegetable ﬁbres which occasion this corrupt state of
the water ought to be carried away quickly by the force of the current
sweeping through, and washing out, the stagnant pools and nooks of
the damp shores. It is a bad sign if the current is so low and lazy as
merely to ﬂoat this corruption. In the ﬁrst year of dearth of which
Abdallatif gives an account. the water was insufferable to the taste and
smell; and all who could had recourse to well-water. He boiled the
Nile water; but that only made it worse: and when he let a portion
stand in a narrow-necked bottle. anthhen took oﬂ‘ the scum, he found
the water, though then clear as fetid as ever. This plague lasted, in
that terrible year, all through June and July and part of- August: and
besides the putrid vegetable matter, there were worms and other creep
tures that swarm in stagnant water. Almost as soon as they were

one, the inundation reached its limit for that year. On the 9th of
geptember, it stood no higher than twelve cubits, twenty-one digits;
and it then be u to decline. The inhabitants could scarcelyhave had
time to ﬁll their cisterns, which they do when the waters have become
red (as they call it) and not before: that is, when they bring down earth
in suspension, instead of decayed vegetation. After ﬁltering, or when
the earth has subsided, the water of the Nile is the ﬁnest conceivable.

In the time of Abdallatif, the epic sat watching the rise of the
waters, as at this day: and terrib 6 must have been the consternation
when it appeared. on the 9th of September, that the scanty ﬂood was
already subaiding. Many thousands were watching there, who would
presently be beyond the reach of mortal hope or fear, listening for the
voice of the crier who would never proclaim another inundation. I
will ive, from Abdallatif, some account of the state of Egypt this year,
-—be ieving his to be the only detailed history we have of such a season
in Egypt; and certain that every one must feel interest in having pre-
sented to him such a proof of the blessing that Joseph was to the nation
of his time, in preserving them from such horrors as a single year of
drought inevitably brings, when no preparation is made for it. I shall,
however, omit the most horrible and disgusting details, as occasioning
more pain than they would be worth to us in this place, though they
could hardly be spared from their own.

" Under these circumstances.” says Abdallatif,‘ “ the year presented
itself as a monster whose wrath must annihilate all the resources of life,
and all the means of subsistence. There was no longer any hope of a
further rise of the Nile; and already therefore the price of provisions
had risen: the provinces were desolated by drbught; the inhabitants
foresaw an inevitable scarcity; and the fear of famine excited tumul-
tuous commotions among them. The inhabitants of the villages and

' Relation de l‘Egypte, Livre II. ch. 2.
Page-236
234 smart awn.

country estates repaired to the great provincial towns: large numbers
emigrated to Syria. Magreb, Hedjaz, and Yemen. where they dispersed
themselves on every hand, as did formerly the descendants of Saba.
There was also an inﬁnite number who sought retreat in the towns of
Misr' and Cairo. where the experienced a frightful famine and mor-
tality; for when the sun he entered Aries. the air had become corrupt,
pestilence and a mortal coat: 'on began to be felt; and the r. pressed

y a continuall increasing amine, ate carrion, corpses, and the
dung of anima . They went further. even devouring lit a children.
It was not an uncommon thing to surprise people with infants roasted
or boiled. The commandant of the city caused all who committed this
crimeto be burned alive, as well as those who ate that meat. I myself
saw in a basket an infant that had been roasted. It was brou ht to the
magistrate; and with it a man and woman who were said to its pa-
rents, and whom the magistrate sentenced to be burned alive.

“ In the month of Ramadhan. a corpse was found at Mist. which
had been stripped of its ﬂesh for food, and whose le were tied. like
those of a sheep prepared for cooking. Galen desire in vain to obtain
a sight of such a skeleton; and there were no means that he did not
attempt for the purpose. This spectacle has been no less sought by
all who have devoted themselves to the study of anatomy. 7

“ When the poor began to eat human ﬂesh, the horror and astonish-
ment caused by the practice were such that these crimes were the ma-
terial of every one’s conversation; and the subject seemed inexhaustible :
but afterwards people became so accustomed to it, and such a relish
beaten to spread for this detestable food. that some came to make it their
or inary meat. to eat it as a treat, and even to lay in a stock of it: dif-
ferent ways of preparin this ﬂesh were made known : and the use of
it being once introduce . the custom extended into the provinces. so
that there was no part of Egypt where it might not be met with. Then
it no longer caused any surprise; the horror which it had at ﬁrst in-
spired ceased to be felt; and people spoke and heard of it as an indif-
ferent and ordinary thing.”

In this indifference lay the best hope of the cessation of the practice ;
for it is usually found that monstrous practices which arise out of ex-
tremity spread like a diabolical fashion ; and the distracted minds which
are shaken by afﬂiction ﬁnd a sort of relief in the excitement of dos.
perate practices: and when the strangeness and novelty are over. the
habitua disgust and compunction are pretty sure to return. It appears
in the later parts of Abdallatif’s narrative that it was so in this instance.
Alter citing some atrocious cases. he goes on to say—

" There were children of the poor, some in infancy and some grow-
ing up. who had no one to look after them and protect them, spread
through all the quarters of the city. and in the narrowest streets. like
locusts that are beaten down in the ﬁelds. Poor people, men and

’ By Misr, Abdallatif throughout means Old Cairo, originally called Fulﬁl. It
was built by the Mohammedan conqueror of Egypt (a. n. 638), on the site of the
Egyptian Babylon. The founder made it the capital and royal residence, which it
continued to be for about two centuries and a half.
Page-237
ram: IN com. 235

women, lay in wait for these wretched children. carried them oli', and
ate them. It was rarely that they could be detected in the very act,
and when they 'were not on their guard. It was generally women who
were so caught: a circumstance which. in my opinion. occurred only
because women have less ingenuity (‘ﬁnesse') than men, and cannot
ﬂy and hide themselves with so much readiness. In the space of a
few days,” many as thirty women were burnt, every one of whom con-
fessed that she had eaten several children. [saw one led before the
magistrate, who had a roasted infant suspended from her neck. Two
hundred stripes were inﬂicted upon her, to draw from her an avowal
of her crime; but no reply could be wrung from her. It even ap-
peared as if she had lost all the faculties which characterize human
nature. Then she was led away by force, and she expired in the
street.” , »

Doubtless'she was no longer human. but rendered brutish and idiotic
by extremity. After telling how the bodies of the burnt criminals were
eagerly sought, "as already cooked." and some other atrocities. our

hysician proceeds to relate the peculiar dangers of his medical
rethren—

“ Among the abandoned people, there were some who laid every sort
of snare to surprise men. and to entrap them into their houses on false
pretences. This was what happened to three physicians who were
accustomed to visit me. . . . . . The third was summoned by
a man to accompany him to a sick person who lived, he said, in the
Schari (the great street). As they went along. the man gave aims of
small coin; and he said (out of tho Kurin).It is to-day that there will
be retribution. and a reward which shall double that that is given
away. Let those who act.acl in view of such a recompense. This was
repeated so often. that the physician began to suspect some foul play.
However. the good opinion he had of this man led him on; and be-
sides. the desire of gain actuated him; and therefore he permitted him-
self to be introduced into a half-ruined mansion. Its appearance in-
' creased his alarm: and he stopped upon the staircase. while his guide
went before him. and opened the door. A comrade came to meet them,
and said, ‘ After keeping us so long, you have brought us good game,
Ihope.’ These words struck terror into the heart of the physician.
He leaped through an open window which he happily perceived, into
a stable. The owner of the stable came. and asked him what was the
matter: but the physician took good care not to tell him, not venturing
to trust him. Then the man said to him, ‘I know about your adven-
ture: the people who live here surprise men and kill them.’ 1'

It may be hoped that this was a mauoat'ae plaiaantert'c. appropriate
to the time. But much that Abdallatif saw was only too real and indu-
bitable. He says:

“ If we were to relate all the anecdotes of this kind that we have
heard told, or have seen with our own eyes. we should run the risk of
being suspected of exaggeration, or accused of a too copious gossip.
All the facts which we have related as eye-witnesses. have come under
our notice without any design on our part. and without our having gone
Page-238
m Inna: urn.

on purpose to the places where they were likely to happen: chm
only made as witnesses of them'; for, far from seeking them, we gene-
rally avoided the sight of them, so great was our horror of such things.
Those, on the other band. who were in the house of the magistrate. to
be present at these tragic scenes, saw cases of this sort, of every kind
and degree, all day and all night long." . . . . .

uThis frightful calamity which I have just represented, extended
over all Egypt: there was not a single inhabited spot where the pm
tics of eating human ﬂesh did not become extremely common. Syene.
Kous, the Faioum. Mahalleh, Alexandria, Damietta, and all other parts
of Egypt, were witnesses of these scenes of barren—A merchanlgl
friend of mine. a man on whom one may rely, told me, on his return
from Alexandria, many facts of the nature of those which I have re-
lated, which had passed before his own eyes; and the most remarkable
thing that he told me was that he had seen five children’s heads in the
lame boiler, prepared with exquisite spices. And now, here is enough
on this part of the subject, upon which, though I have enlarged a good
deal, it appears to me that I have been very brief.”

He then gives an account of the murders on the river and the roads;
and continues :

“ As for the number of the poor who perished from hunger and ex-
haustion. God alone knows what it was. What we shall say of it mun
be regarded only as a slight sketch which may convey some idea of
the fearful excess reached by this mortality. One thing of which I
may speak as having seen it myself, at Misr, at Cairo. and in the neigh-
boring places, is that wherever one went. there was not aspot in whitfh
one’s feet or one's eyes were not encountered by a corpse, or a man In
the agonies of death. or even a great number in this dreadful state-
Day by day, from one hundred to ﬁve hundred dead bodies were taken
from Cairo. to be carried to the place where they might have funeral
rites. At Misr the number of dead was incalculable. They were 110‘
buried, but merely cast out of the town. At last, there were not enough
living left to carry away the dead. and they remained in the open air.
among the houses and shops. or even in the interior of dwellings. You
might see a corpse falling to pieces in the very place where a cool: OI’
a baker, or other tradesmen, was carrying on his business.

" As for the suburbs and villages, all the inhabitants perished. extht
1 small number, of whom a portion quitted their abodes to go some-
where else. We must scarcely except from what I have now said the
capitals of the provinces. and the largest villages. . . A traveler often
passed through a large village without seeing a single living inhabit-
ant. He saw the houses standing open, and the corpses of those who
had lived there stretched out opposite one another—some decayed. and
some recently dead. Very often. there was a house full of furniture.
without any one to take possession of it. What I am now saying l1”
been communicated to me by several persons whose narratives con‘
ﬁrmed each other. One of them said as follows :—t We arrived a”
village, and there found no living thing. on the earth or in the air-
Having entered the houses, the state in which the inhabitants appeared
Page-239
rum: in not". ”7‘

offered us an exact picture of what God says in this passage of the
Kurin: We have mowed them all down. and exterminated them. We
saw the inhabitants of each house extended dead, the husband, the wife,
and the children. From thence we went to another village, where we
were told that there had been till new four hundred weaving shops;
and it presented to us the same scene of desolation as the ﬁrst. We
saw the weaver dead in his loom-pit.‘ and all his dead famil round
him. I was here reminded of that other text of the Karin: e sin-
gle cry was heard, and they all perished. We then proceeded.’ says
the same person, ‘ to another village, where we found things just in the
same state; no creature living. and the inhabitants having all become
the prey of death. As we were obliged to remain there, in order to
sow the lands. we had to hire people to carry away the bodies, and
throw them into the Nile, at the rate of a. piece of silverl' for every ten
bodies. At last.‘ added this person, ‘the wolves and hymns succeeded
to the inhabitants, feeding on their carcases.’

“ This is one of the most remarkable things which I myself saw,"
continues Abdallatif. " As I was one day,1n com any with several
other persons, in a place which overlooked the Nile,t ere passed before
our eyes, in the course of one hour, about ten corpses, swollen and
puffed up like water-skins ﬁlled with air. We saw them by chance.
not having directed our attention that way. and without commanding
from our station the whole breadth of the Nile. The next day, being
in a boat, we saw on the canal and on all the banks. scattered limbs
like—to use a comparison of the poet Amrialka'is—t the roots of bulb-
ous plants which have been drawn out of the ground.’ I have heard
of a fisherman of the pen of Tennis who saw pass near him, in a sin-
gle day.fou.r hundred corpses which the waters of the river carried
with them to the sea. V

“According to the testimony of a great number of witnesses, the
road between Egypt and Syria was like a vast ﬁeld sown with human
bodies; or rather, ike a plain which has just been swept by the myths
of the mower. It had become as a banquet-hen for the birds and wild
beasts which gorged themselves on their ﬂesh; and the very dogs that
these fugitives had taken with them, to share their exile, were the ﬁrst
to devour their bodies.

“The inhabitants of the Haul," (a district to the east of the Nile,
below Cairo.) “ when they retired into Syria to ﬁnd pasturage, were
the ﬁrst who perished upon this road; long as it is, it was strewn with
their corpses, like locusts which have been broiled" (by the ﬁres lighted
to smoke them down) ; u and to this moment, some are yet perishilg
there. The emigration transported some to Mosul, to Bagdad. to-ths
countries of Korasan. of the Greek empire, of Africa, and of Yemen;
and they were dispersed into all parts. It often happened that, among

' See p. 80.

1' The value of these “pieces" of gold and silver has varied largely; but Mr.
lane, in his notes to the “ Arabian Nights," advises us to suppose them to average,—
the piece of gold, half a guinea or ten shillings, and the piece of silver about six-
pence.
Page-240
288 sans-an ma.

this crowd of emi nts. a woman slipped away from her children. and
thus abandoned t e unhappy little creatures, who were tormented by
hunger till death put an end to their sufferings."

After a dreadful notice of the sale for bread of people of condition,
Abdallatif tells us what he considers the most wonderful thing in the
whole history; a thing which to as does not appear wonderful at all;
that, notwithstanding such a complexity of woes as distinctly revealed
the wrath of God, men continued to adore the idols of their criminal
passions without any amendment, and still wallowed in the sea of their
sins. He seems to be unaware that the tempting devils of human pas-
sions are mused and exasperated and hardened by such hopeless mise-
ry as leaves them nothing more to fear from the anger of God, which.
in such a season. becomes to them a mere empty name.

He next tells us of the strange appearance of a multitude of dwell-
ings without any one to inhabit them. “I ought not," he says, “ to omit
noticing the depopulation of towns and villages, and the desertion of
the unpeopled houses and shops :—this last trait belongs to the picture
which I have undertaken to draw ..... Even at Cairo, the mansions,
the houses, and the shops situated in the heart of the town, and in the
best quarters. are for the most part, empty or desertedyso that, in the
most frequented part of this capital there is a mansion composedof
more than ﬁfty apartments which have all remained empty except
four. where some people are lodged to take care of the place. The
inhabitants of Cairo at the present time use no other fuel for their
hearths and ovens than rafters. doors, and posts.-—It is. however, a
thing well worthy of wonder that, amon people who had always before
been unfortunate, there are some who ave made a fortune this year.
Some have amassed wealth by trade in corn; others by coming to rich
inheritances: some others have grown wealthy without any one know-
ing how. Blessed be He who distributes or withholds his gifts accord-
ing to His good pleasure, and who gives a share of His favors to all
creatures!”

As the waters were so low previous to the inundation of this year as
to leave theNilometer completely dry. it is obvious that the ﬂood must
be again inadequate, unlessa most unusual amount of water came down.
And it was inadequate: yet the account of the second year leaves the
reader consoled and hopeful; so that I will give a few passages, which
are also necessar to the completeness of the narrative.

Not only did t e Nile cease to ﬂow at the base of the Nilometer on
the Geezeh side; it left a long and broad island. where fragments of
ancient constructions were observed. I wish Abdallatif had told us
what these ancient constructions appeared to be. If he had. we might
have learned some secrets about the bed of the river, and about the
changes of its course. The corruption of the water was very great this
year. The inundation took place languidly, sometimes stopping; and
once. for three days, when the people gave up all for lost, and prepar-
ed themselves for total destruction. This was on the 9th of August.
But it rose in, at irregular intervals, till the 4th of September. when
it reached 5 teen cubits, sixteen digits. It began to sink the same day,
Page-241
name In sum. 239

before the ground could imbibe much of the benefit, and declined so
rapidly that not nearly all the districts felt the inundation, and some of
those -ver scantily. Ahdallatif observes, "One would have said that
it was on y the phantom of the inundation which had visited them, like
those spectres that we imagine we see in a dream. and which imme-
diately vanish. Only the level lands proﬁted by the inundption: and
the lower provinces. as Garbiyyeh and some others, were sufﬁciently
watered: but the villages were entirely emptied of cultivators and la-
borers. This text of the Karin might be applied to them, The next
momin nothing was seen of them but their habitations. The rich
collected their scattered dependents, and brought together the few la-
borers who remained to them. Laborers and cattle were so rare that
a bull in good condition was sold for sevent pieces of gold; and one
which was in poor plight for a little less.— 11 the greater part of the
count districts, the waters retired too soon, and before the lands had
been uly soaked, because there was‘ no one to shut in the waters,
and detain them upon the ﬁelds; and this was the reason why such
lands remained untilled. though they had partake!) of the inundation.
Many which had been watered enough remained fallow, because the
proprietors could neither provide the seed nor pay the expenses of
cultivation. Of the ﬁelds which were sown, many were laid waste by
the vermin which devoured the seed: and of the seed which escaped
this destruction, much gave out only a weak blade which presently
perished.

“It is from God that consolation must be looked for: for it is He who.
by His goodness and liberality, determines happy events.”

Till the middle of the second year, everything continued to grow
worse. “ Fewer poor perished." says Abdullatif.‘ " not because the
cause of their destruction was altered, but only because they were re-
duced to a small number.—The practice of eating human ﬂesh became
less common; and at last we heard no more of it. The provisions ex-

ed for sale in the market were more rarely stolen,because vagabonds
ad almost disappeared from the town. The price of provisions fell
till the ardeh of wheat? was sold for three pieces of gold, (it had been
ﬁve,) “ but this abatement of price was owing to the small number of
consumers, and not to the abundance of food. The city was relieved
by the loss of the greater part of its population; and all that it contain-
ed was reduced in the same proportion. People became accustomed
to the dearness of provisions; and by dint of enduring famine, they
had, as it were, contracted the habit, like that of a. natural state of
things.” . . . .

“I have been assured that there had previously been at Misr nine
hundred machines for weaving mats; and thutnow only ﬁfteen remain-
ed. We have only to apply the same proportion to the other trades
which are carried on in that town; to the shop-keepers, bakers, grocers,
shoemakers, tailors and other artisans. The numbers employed in each

’ Relation de l‘Egypte, Livre II. oh. 3.
1’ A little under ﬁve bushels.
Page-242
240 nuns am.

of these were reduced in the same proportion as the mat weavers; or
in a greater.

“Fowls failed altogether. except a few which were brought» from
Syria. I have heard that an inhabitant of Egypt. seeing himself re-
duced to indigence. was,” it were. inspired by God to buy a hen,
which be caused to be brought from Syria, and for which he paid sixty
pieces of gold. He sold it again at Cairo. for eight hundred. pieces of
gold. to the people whose business is to rear fowls. When the eggs
appeared, they were bought for a piece of silver each :—aﬁerwards.
two. three. and then four eggs might be had for that money; and this
was the price which was sustained. A chicken sold for a hundred
pieces of silver; and the price remained for a long time as high as a
piece of gold. and mom—The ovens were heated with the wood taken
from empty mansions. Those who had ovens bought a mansion for a
very low price, and used the partitions and the rafters. which served
them for a time to heat their ovens: when this resource was exhaust-
ed, they bought another mansion. There were some among them who,
regarding only the baseness of their feelings. got into the houses in the
night. and took their provision of wood, without meeting anybody who
could oppose their thievery.—It often happened that a mansion con-
tinued empty. nobody remaining there but the proprietor: and for want
of ﬁnding any one who would purchase it, he himself took the ’ ista,
the doors and all the furniture. which he sold: and then he a oned
the dismantled lace. The same was done with houses which were
hired.—As for e villages round Cairo. and in the provinces. they are
now merely a fearful solitude. One may travel for several days toge-
ther. and in all directions. without meeting a single living creature ;—
nothing but corpses—A great mortality and pestilence happened again
in the I-‘aioum. in the imvinw of Garbiylyeh. and at Demietta and
Alexandria. It was at e time of sewing at this scourge was at the
worst; and there were instances where many laborers perished suc-
cessively at the same plough. It was related to me how the cultivators
who sowed the seed were not those who had prepamd the land: and
that again, it was a different set who gathered the harvest.—I in self
saw the sowing done for one of the principal lords: he sent peep e to
do it: then, having found that they were all dead. he sent others: and
the greater part of these died also. This happened over and over
again, in various districts.—Persons who may be relied on informed
me that at Alexandria. on one single Friday, the Imaum had uttered
the funeral prayers over seven hundred bodies: and that the same in-
heritance had passed to fourteen heirs in succession in the course of a
month: and also that above twenty thousand inhabitants of that city had
left it. had retired to the province of Berks, had established themselves
there, and had rendered that “ﬁn ﬂourishing."

On the 20th of May. “there ppened a violent earthquake, which
ﬁlled every one with terror. Every one leaped from his bed, and at-
tered cries of supplication to the all-powerful God. The movement
remained a lon time; the shocks were like the motion of a sieve or
riddle, or like t which a bird makes in ﬂapping its wings. There
Page-243
nuns: in town. 241

were in all three violent shocks, which shook the buildings, made the’
doors rattle, and the rafters and roof tremble: and the dwellings which
were in bad condition or in a lofty situation seemed doomed to destruc-
tion. There were more shocks towards noon of the same day; but they
were felt by few persons, because they were gentle and soon over. It
had been extremel cold that night. so as to compel us to cover our-
selves more warm y than usual: to this temperature succeeded the next
day an extreme heat, and an excessive estilential wind which inter-
cepted respiration, and was positivel su ocating. Such an earthquake
as this is rarely known in Egypt. 6 afterwards learned by tidings
which arrived from many quarters, that the earthquake was felt at the
same hour in distant countries, and in villages a long way off. I con-
sider it certain that at the same moment a great part of the world felt
the shock, from Kous to Damietta, Alexandria, the coast of S ria, and
indeed the whole of Syria, in all its length and breadth. Klan)! in-
habited places disappeared altogether, without an trace whatever
being left of them, and an innumerable multitude 0 people perished.
I know of no place in all S ria which suffered less than Jerusalem:
that city suffered very litte damage. The rave es‘oaused by this
event were much eater in the countries inhabited y the Franks than
in those occupied y the Mussulmans." . . . .

“ The following fact is one of the most remarkable of all that I wit.
nessed. Several persons among those who diligently visited me to
confer with me on medicine, having got as far as the Treatise on Ana?
tomy (of Galen) found it diﬂicult to understand me. as I found it difﬁ-
cult to make myself understood by them, because there is a great dif-
ference between a. verbal description and the inspection of the objects
themselves. Having learned that there was at Maks a hill on which
human remains had accumulated in great quantity, we went there;
and we saw a mound of considerable extent composed of the remains
of human bodies: there was more of them than of the soil: and we
could reckon that there were twenty thousand corpses, and, more that
could be perceived by the eye. They might be distinguished into dif-
ferent classes, according to age." And then he proceeds to give an
anatomical lecture.

“ When from a height we looked down." he continues. “ upon the
place called the Basin, and which is a considerable hollow, we saw
skulls, some white, some hlack,.and others of a deep brown: they were
in layers. and heaped up in such a quantity that they covered up the
other bones: one would have said that there were only heads without
bodies: and one might suppose that one saw melons which had been
gathered. and which were thrown into a pile, as we heap sheaves upon
a granary ﬂoor. Some days afterwards I saw them again: the sun
had dried the ﬂesh: the skulls had become white, and I compared
them to ostriches’ eggs piled together. When I contemplated on the
one hand the solitude which reigned in the streets and markets of
Mist, and on the other these plains and hills which vomited corpses, I
represented to myself a caravan which had uitted the spot where it
had encamped, and had removed to another p ce. Moreover, this was

16
Page-244
:42 smart am.

not the only scene which oﬂered such a spectacle: wherever one went.
the same scene was presented; and often a much more frightful one.“

“ We will now brieﬂy declare the state of the Nile for this year.
The waters had considerably sunk in the month of January; and they
continued to sink till men and horses could pass the river by fording in
several places. It was in Ramadhan that the river was at its lowest
point: its bed was left dry, below Mikyas. to the distance of about
eight hundred cubits. Ebn-Ahi‘braddad ascertained the height of the
water at Mikyas on the 18th of June; it was a cubit and a half:
whereas the year before it stood at two cubits on that day. Last year.
too, the river had begun to rise on this day: but now we had to wait till
the 19th of July. In all this interval, the river had risen only four
digits; so that there was a very bad opinion of the inundation for this
year; the despair was general; people imagined that something extra-
ordinary had happened to the sources of the Nile, and in the places
through which it passes. However, the river now began sensibly to
rise: so that at the end of Epiphi (July) its height was three cubits.
At this time the waters ceased to rise for two days, which caused ex-
treme terror; because such a pause was contrary to ordinary expe-
rience. But soon after the waters came in great abundance; they rose
by strides, and one might have said that mountains of water leaped
upon one another. In the space of ten days, the river rose eight cabins.
three of which were continuous. without any pause at all. On the
1st of September the greatest height was reached, which was one digit
under sixteen cubits. After remaining for two days at this height,
the waters began to decline slowly. and to ﬂow away very gradually.

“ Here is what I had to say of the circumstances of the horrible
scourge whose history I have narrated. I shall. therefore, ﬁnish here
this section and the whole book. Praise be to God, the Sovereign
Master of the universe! May God be favorable to the Prince of his
messengers, to Mohammed the Prophet without learning, and to his
holy and honorable descendants!"

Such was the dearth of the years mo. 1199-1202. Such was the
temporary victory gained by the pertinacious old Desert over the strag-
gling Nile. The history suggests many thoughts ;-—much admiration
of the sagacity and administrative ability of Joseph in saving the Egyp-
tian nation of his day from a fate as much worse even than the above
related, as their numbers were greater in the ages of the national glory
than ever afterwards. Much do we wonder. too, whether Joseph was
wided by any precedent; and how far by the prophecies of science.

e should li e to know whether, as he grew up in his new country,
he heard traditionary accounts of the horrors of drought in the valley;
and whether, in such a case, he applied himself to learn the premoni.
tory signs of the calamity. Much do we wonder whether the ancient
race was ever this nearly swept away; whether the priestly watch-
men ever loolted abroad from the top of their propyla over plains sown
with human bones instead of sprouting seed. and whether they called
together the few survivors to sacriﬁce to Osiris, to bring him back from
his absence or displeasure to his favorite valley. Much should we like
Page-245
cam. 248

to know from what depth of ages the greatest of intermittent springs
had regularly gushed forth, to give life to an expecting nation, waitin
in hope along a line of two thousand miles. The priests who expressed
to Herodotus such anxious fears for the Greeks, because of their de-
pendence upon the clouds, could hardly have known of any such drought
as could parallel that of Ad). 1200, or the would have moderated their
boasting, even if they had concealed the fact. Among the few histori-
cal notices which remain appended by Manetho to the names of the
kings, such as " During this reign” (ﬁrst king of the Second Dynasty),
“a great landslip took place at Bubastis, and many perished," [am not
aware that any relate to a failure of the Nile; or that there is any-
where a hint of even a tradition of such a famine as Abdallatif witness-
ed. It is probable that, in the days of high Egyptian civilization, when
Egypt was thegranary of the world, better precautions were taken than
by succeeding races of inhabitants. It seems more probable that men
so able as that old Egyptian aristocracy, should have kept ample stores
of food in reserve, than that the Nile should never have failed through
several thousand ears; or than that the memory of a great famine
should have been cat in the time of Herodotus.

Here, then, we leave the Nile. which has been the thread of our
discourse thus far. It has been before me, with all its antique interest,
and all its fresh young beauty. during whatever I have written to this
point; and I must hope that my readers have caught some sensations
of that interest. and some glimpses of that beauty, as they have fol-
lowed me. We shall see no more of it now, exceptas a mere line
noticed from the citadel of Cairo, and as a mournful parting vision on
gm evening of our ﬁrst encampment in the Desert.—And now, to

airo!

 

CHAPTER XXI.

CAIRO—STREETS AND BAZAARS.—MOSQUES.—ClTADEL.——FETE OF
THE BIRTH 01“ THE PROPHET—ENTRANCE OF THE MAHHMIL—
THE MAGICIAN.——-SOC1ETY IN CAIRO—MR. LANE.

Titans are few gayer things in life, for one who chooses to be gay,
than a visit to Cairo. The stranger must use a few precautions against
the disturbance of his gayety; and then he may surrender himself
to the most wonderful and romantic dream that can ever meet his
waking senses. The most wonderful and romantic,—because there is
nothing so wonderful and romantic in the whole social world as an Ara-
bian cny ; and Cairo is the queen of Arabian cities. Damascus is
usually ranked with Cairo; but, full of charms as Damascus is. (as we
may see by and by.) it is Charmin for other reasons than its virtues as
an Arabian city; on which groun it cannot for a moment stand a com-
parison with Cairo. The precautions againstseriousness which a stran-
ger must take are, ﬁrst, to forget that he is in Egypt; to avoid looking
Page-246
244 EAITIBN urn.

over westwards to the Pyramids. or too far southwards, lest an arrayof
old Egyptian ghosts should marshal themselves on the horizon, and cast
a shadow of solemnity over his thoughts. He must also shake oﬂ‘any
considerate humanity which may hang about him, and avoid Inquiring
what lies beneath what he sees, or thinking of any people but those
whom he meets in the bazaars. A butterﬂy may enjoy a glorious day
in hovering about an array of ﬂower-baskets, not caring whether the
ﬂowers are growing or stuck into wet sand; and the stranger in Cairo
may have a short season of transport, if he will only take up with the
shows of things. and forget the roots.

The mere spectacle of the streets I relished more and more to the
last. As for the rest. I could not keep my heart and mind in abeyance
for many days; and before I left.I felt that there is hardly a spot in
whatl have seen of the countries of the world where I would not rather
live than in Cairo. The more I liked the Arabs. and the more I ad-
mired their gem of a city. the more impossible I felt it would be to live
there, for any other reason than a strong call of duty. The mere spec-
tacle of the streets became, however, as I said more bewitching every
da

{\fter an early cup of coffee, we usually mounted our donkeys for F
ride of two hours before the table- d' hole breakfast. I like donkey-
riding in Cairo. I never tried it out of Egypt, except for a few miles
in Palestine; but I do not suppose it is the same thing anywhere else.

The creatures are full of activity. and their amble is a pleasant pace
in the streets. Side-saddles. more or less tattered, may be hired with
Cairo donkeys now. Mrs. Y. took her saddle from England, and I was
fortttnate enough to buy one, in good repair, on my arrival at Cairo.
which would serve for either horse or donkey. The little rogues of
donkey- boys were always ready and eager, close by the hotel—hustling
each other to get the preference—one displaying his English with
“God save the queen ros bif; " another smiling amiably In one s face;
and others kicking and cufﬁng. as people who had a prior right, and
must relieve us of encroachers. Then of we went briskly through the
Ezbekeeyeh, under the acacias. past the water-carriers, with their full
skins on their left shoulder. and the left hand holding the orifice of the
neck from which they could squirt nater into the road, or quietly ﬁll
a jar at pleasure; past the silent smoking party, with their long chi-
houques or serpentine nnrgeelehs; past the barber. shavin the head of
a man kneeling and resting his crown on the barber's ﬁtp; past the
veiled woman with her tray of bread—thin, round cakes; past the red
and white striped mosque, where we looked up to the gallery of the
minaret. in hope of the muezzin coming out to call the Inen to prayer;
past a handsome house or two, with its rich lattices, its elaborate gate~
way. and its shade of trees in front. or of shrubs within the court. of
which we might obtain a tempting glimpse; past Shepherd’s hotel.
where English gentlemen might be seen going in and out. or chatting
before the door; past a row of artisan dwellings. where the Joiner, the
weaver. and the maker of slippers were at work, with their oriental
tools, and In their graceful Oriental postures—and then Into the bazaars.
Page-247
smu‘s AND aazuas. g 245

But before I had reached the bazaars. I was generally In a state of
vexation with myself for my carelessness about surrounding objects. I
hardly know what it is in these Eastern countries which disposes one to
reverie; but I verily thought, the whole Journey through. and especially
at Cairo, that I was losing my observing faculties—so often had I to
rouse myself, or to be roused by others, to heed what was before my eyes.
I did not ﬁnd it so on our route to Eg pt, nor in crossing France on
our return; so, my own experience would, lead me to suppose that there
is somethihg In the aspect of Oriental life and scenery which meets
and stimulates some of one ’s earliest and deepest associations. and en-
gages some of one' s higher mental faculties too much to leave the lower
free. The conﬂict was not agreeable, however: the longing to have
for one' 's own forever every exquisite feature of the scene, and presently
the discovery that one had passed through halfa dozen alleys without
seeing anything at all; and all for pondering. something which might be
as well thought over at home! By dint of incessant self-ﬂapping and
endless rides, however, I arrived at last at knowing and remembering
almost every peculiar object In Cairo—of such, I mean, as offer them-
selves to the eye in the streets. I really do not know how I can convey
my own impression of what I saw so well as in the words of my memo-
randa put down at the time. “Cairo streets are wholly indescribable—
their narrowness, antiquity, sharp lights, and arcades of gloom, carved
lattices, mat awnings, mixture of hubbub and fatalist quietude in the
people, to whom loss of sight appears a matter of course—the modes of
buying and selling—all are in my mind, but cannot be set down."
Again. H Went with my party to shop—a most amusing aﬂ‘air. I
bought a Tuscan straw hat for 4s. 6d" while a common and not large
saucepan. copper tinned, was priced 123. It was awkward waiting
while Mr. E. bought brown shoes.-the way was so narrow. and our
donkeys were ﬁve,und horses and laden camels were continually pass-
ing, thrusting as among the very merchandize; and then there was the
smart and repeated crack of the courbash which gives warning that a
carriage is coming. and that we must plunge into the nearest alley: and
then there was a cart or two; and all the while there was some staring.
though not much, and clouds of ﬂies from a fruiterers shop " The
tranquil slowness with which the tradespeople (who all looked, to my
eyes, like kings and princes in fairy tales) served any one of us we
all the rest many such opportunities of observation. One of the dro lest
incidents of this kind befall when the gentlemen were in search of some
eastern garments for their desert ride. We ladies, with the aid of our
dragoman, made our purchases and returned to the tailor’ s—stood, sat.
inquired into the meaning of everything within sight. and wondered at
the long delay. It ended in the amusement of ﬁnding that the gentle-
men had obtained nothing but a lesson, and some practice in trying on
eastern garments. After a world of effort, and of tying and hookin
and inquirin of prices, it came out that the clothes were second-
hand; and t ey were pulled of much more quickly than they were
put on.
Carriages are quite alarming' to Cairo, which was not built for the

, J
“MAJ-L
Page-248
246 Bureau use.

passage of anything so large. They are very peremptory, having no
idea of stopping for anybody. Notice of their approach is'given by the
crack of the courbash of the outrider who precedes them. and any one
who does not get out of the way on that signal must take the conse-
quences. On comes the vehicle. jolting and rocking. and ﬁlling the
narrow way; and young and old, blind and seeing, must squeeze them-
selves up against the bazaar front; and a loaded camel must‘meet the
shock as it may. It is worse, however, to ride in one than to meet it.
In our drive to the hareem which we visited, we were kept in a con-
tinual agony. so many were the people we drove against. The keep-
ing of carriages was much on the increase before there was any pro-
vision for them. A friend of mine found one in his street when he
went to live there, four years and a half before my visit; and now there
are twenty-four or twenty-ﬁve, making the passage of the street very
hazardous. Since I left Cairo. a wide street has been begun, extending
from the Ezbekeeyeh to the Citadel—a great convenience to the Pasha
and the Franks. but a ruinous innovation upon the oriental appearance
of the city. The Frank residents, however, now give up the oriental-
ism of Cairo; and I was perpetually told by them that I was looking at
a half-European city—but my own impression is that it is as like as
possible to the pictures in the Arabian Nights—so that, of all the cities
that I have seen, Cairo is the one which may be the most easily ima-
gined at a distance, in a superﬁcial way, provided the notions of a
mosque, a bazaar and an eastern house are once obtained from pictures.
The one unimaginable circumstance is the atmosphere. No conception
of the light. shade, and color can be conveyed; and they are an hourly
surprise to the stranger in Cairo, to the last.

The mosques are extremely interesting; partly from their architec-
tural beauty; more so from their purposes, and the pleasure of seeing
those purposes fulﬁlled. Nothing charmed me so much about them
as the spectacle of the houseless poor, who find a refu e there. In
the noble mosque of Sultaun Hasan, when we had mounts a long ﬂight
of steps from the street, and more stairs which led to the barrier where
we must put on slippers, we entered a vast court. sacred to all who
have hearts, whether they be heathens, Mohammedans or Christians,
for the solace and peace which are to be found there. The greater
part of this court was open to the sky; its ﬂoor was of inlaid marble;
and in the centre was the tank where the worshipers perform their
ablutions before praying. The steps to the roofed platform at the upper
end were matted; and on these steps some men were at prayer. On
the platform sat a man making a garment,—-spreading out his cloth upon
the mat, and running the seems, as much at his ease as if he had been
in a home of his own. This was a homeless man ; and here he was wel-
come. Several poor people were sitting talking cheerfully; and under
this roof, and on this mat, they were welcome to sleep, if they had no
other place of rest. Some children were at play quietly on the marble
pavement. We are accustomed to say that there is no respect of per-
sons, and that all men are equal, within the walls of our churches; but
I never felt this so strongly in any Christian place of worship as in this
Page-249
mots. w

Mohammedan one. with its air of freedom, peace, and welcome to all
the faithful. I felt myself an intruder there, in a retreat which should
be kept sacred for those who go to it, not as a church, but as a religious
home.-—Still, good as it seems for the people to be there, and happyas
appears the provision for them,they are sighing, as people everywhere
are always sighing, for the return of their golden age. This reverting pro-
pensity seems common to all men; and every race seems to have had its

lden age. Our dragoman pointed to a medallion in the interior, three
get in diameter, and told us that in Sultaun Hasan’s time, “bread of the
size of that was to be had for a para."—We reached this interior from
the platform, through a magniﬁcent port'hl of cast metal of beautiful
pattern. In the centre of the vast chamber was the Sultaun’s tomb,
railed round. On the tomb lay a tattered. but very ﬁne old copy of the
Kurin; and some Syrian lamps were beside it. The decorations of the
walls and corners must once have been magniﬁcent, some elaborate
wood carving remaining which shows traces of gilding and color. The
best account of a mosque that I know is that of Mr. Milnes in his
“Palm Leaves 5" a book, the value and beauty of which can be appre-
ciated only during or after a visit to the East. As his poem of “ the
Mosque" may not have met the eye. or ﬁxed the attention, of all my
readers, I venture to give part of it here. Any one who is acquainted
with it will not be sorry to fall in with it again:—

“A simple unpartitinned room,—
Surmounted by an ample dome,
Or, in some lands that favored lie,
With centre open to the sky;
But roofed with arched cloistors round,
That mark the consecrated bound1
And shade the niche to Mekkeh turned,
By which two massive lights are burned;
With pulpit whence the sacred word.
Expounded on great days is heard;
With fountains fresh, where, ere they pray,
Men wash the soil of earth away;
With shining minaret, thin and high,
From whose ﬁne uellised balcony,
Announcement of the hours of prayer
is uttered to the silent air;
Such is the Mosque—the holy place,
Where faithful men of every race,
Meet at their ease and face to face.

“Not that the power of God is here
More manifest, or more to fear;
Not that the glory of his face
ls circumscribed by any space;

But that, as men are wont to meet

In court or chamber, mart or street,
For purposes of gain or pleasure,
For friendliness or social leisure,—
So for the greatest of all ends

To which intelligence extends,

The worship of the Lord, whose will
Ccmted and sustains us still,
Page-250
348 IAI'I'III run.

And honor of the Prophet‘s name,
By whom the saving message W,
Believers meet together here.

And hold these precincts very dear.

“The ﬂoor is spread with mixing neat,
Unsuined by touch of Hidden feet,—
A decent and delightful seat!

Where after due devotions paid,

And legal ordinance obeyed.

Men may in happy parlance join.

And may with serious thought combine;
May ask the news from lands surly,
May fix the business of today;

Or, with “God willing," at the close,
Tomorrow’s hopes and deeds dispose,

“Children are running in Ind out,
With silver—sounding laugh nnd shout,
No more disturbed in their sweet play,
No more disturbing those that pray,
Than the pom birds that ﬂuttering ﬂy
Among the rafters there on high,
Or seek at times, with grateful hop,
The corn fresh-sprinkled on the top.

“So, lest the stranger's scornful eye
Should hurt this sacred family,—
Lest inconsiderate words should wound
Devon! atlorers with their sound,—
Lest careless feel should stain the ﬂoor
With dirt and dust from out the door,—
’Tis well that custom should protect
The place with prudence circumspect,
And let no unbeliever pass
The threshold of the faithful mass;
That as each Muslim his Hareem
Guards even from a jealous dream.
So should no alien feeling soothe
This common home of public faith,
So should iLs very nlme dispel
The presence of the inﬁdel.”

The Pasha’s new mosque at the citadel is a building magniﬁcent for
space, and in its position: and I hope he will see it ﬁnished before the
time comes for him to be laid in it. It is a great enterprise: and this
mosque will henceforth be a striking feature to the stranger in the
aspect of Cairo. But I must think the use of alabaster for the interior
of the court a great mistake. However beautiful this veined alabaster
is in small portions. its effect is not good in the mass. 1 never looked
round that court without being reminded of dirty soap-suds. The
streaky and mottled character of the alabaster utterly destroys the im-
pression of grandeur which the architecture would otherwise give.
And, what is worse, it is a crumbling material. Little heme]: are fall-
ing out. and corners are broken off, and the sharpness of edges is gone
already, before the work is half done. One might slmost as well build
Page-251
m (rt-non. 249

a sculptured and pillared hall of chalk. The interior of this mosque is
of vast dimensions, and must be truly imposing when ﬁnished.

It is from this eminence,—from the terrace of the citadel—that that
view is obtained which is by some declared to be unsurpassed by any
in the known world. On the whole, I prefer the view of Damascus
from the Salaheeyeh to that of Cairo from the terrace of the citadel:
but elsewhere I certainly should not know how to ﬁnd a parallel
for it.

I would entreat any stranger to see this view ﬁrst in the evening,——
before sunset. I saw it three times or more. In the morning there
was much haze in the distance, and a sameness of color which hurt the
eye. At noon there was no color at all: all color being discharged in
the middle of the day in Egypt, except in shady places. In the even-
ing the beauty is beyond description. The vastness of the city. as it
lies stretched below, surprises every one. It looks a perfect wilder-
ness of ﬂat roofs, cupolas, minarets, and palm tops. with an open space
here and there, presenting the complete front of a mosque, and gay
groups of people, and moving camels,—-a relief to the eye. though so
diminished by distance. The aqueduct is a most striking feature, run-
ning 01? for miles. The City of Tombs was beautiful and wonderful,
—lts fawn-colored domes rising against the somewhat darker sand of
the desert. The river gleamed and wound away from the dim south
into the blue distance of the north, the green strip of cultivation on its
banks delighting the eye amidst the yellow sands. Over to the west,
the Pyramids looked their full height. and their full distance, which is
not the case from below. The platform of the Great Pyramid is here
seen to be a considerable hill of itself; and the ﬁelds and causeways
which intervene between it and the river lie as in a map. and indicate
the true distance and elevation of these mighty monuments. The
Lybian hills, dreary as possible, close in the view behind them. as the
‘Mokuttam range does above and behind the citadel.-—This view is the
great sight of Cairo. and that which the stranger contrives to bring into
his plan for almost every day.

Of course we saw the court where the Memlooks were slaughtered,
and the wall whence Emin Bey took his leap, and the narrow street
below, up which he ﬂed. The wall must have been a good deal raised,
even allowing for the rubbish heap which that day lay below; for its
height above the street is now not less than eighty feet. No lapse of
time or consideration of circumstances can soften one’s feelings about
that act of treacherous barbarity, or lessen one’s compassion for the
man who would purchase life and empire (supposing them to have been
really in danger) at such a price. If any of my readers should be
unaware of this deed of Muhammad Alee‘s, it may be soon learned.—
He wanted to go into Arabia, to drive out the Wahabees who molested
the pilgrims: but he was afraid to leave Egypt while the proud Mem-
looks remained, to accomplish some objects of theirs, adverse to him.
in his absence. He invited the whole body of their leaders to the
citadel, to witness a fete, treated them with the usual hospitalities, and
dismissed them courteously. As the last went out, the doors were
Page-252
:50 smart un.

securely fastened; and when the guests, who had mounted their horses
in the court, reached the gates, they found them closed, and nobody to
answer their call to have them opened. As they turned, to gallop back
to the Pasha. a murderous tire was directed upon them from above.
They could ﬁnd no one; and they were surrounded by high walls.
Men and horses lay heaped together in the sgonies of death. Some
ﬂed round and round the court till the inevitable ball reached them:
and more than one, in rage and agony at such a death being appointed
to armed men in their martial strength, drove their heads against the
stone walls, or shot out their own brains. One only escaped ;—Emi.n
Bey, who made his horse leap the parapet, alighted on a heap of rub-
bish in the street below. pushed his frantic horse to a gallop through
the narrow streets, and took refuge with some Arabs, whose tents were
about two miles from the city, and who concealed him till he could
reach the sea. and quit the country. The Pasha employed his barbar-
ous Greek soldiers to do this deed, and paid them by a license to
plunder the houses of the Memloolts. The slaughter and ravage which
ensued were so horrible that the Pasha himself had to parade the city
on the second day. to put a stop to the pillage. The massacre took
place on the let of March, 1811; and the number of Memlooks slain
in the citadel is reported to be from 360 to 440. How many more of
inferior rank were slain in the city, no one seems to know. the reports
varying from 80 to 1200. Of course, the Memlook power was de-
stroyed. The Pasha obtained his object with regard to that. But the
memory of this deed interferes fatally with his other great object of
being considered to have emancipated himself from the barbarism of
the eastern world.

We saw his palace. in which there is nothing remarkable. His bath
was yet warm: and his ﬁne, uncomfortable, embroidered towel still
wet. His gardener oﬂ'ered ﬂowers to Mrs. Y. and me, in bouquets of
a pyramidal form,-—as carefully built up. in their way, as the pyra-
mids themselves.

The fete of the Birth of the Prophet happened when we were at
Cairo; and we went at noon to see what it was like. The best part
of it was the appearance of the city that day, when the people were
all dressed in their best; the men with clean turbans and bright purple
tunics, and the ladies with gay silks under their ﬂoating balloon mantles
of black silk. 0n the spot of the fete, the scene was not unlike that
of a fair at home, except of course in regard to the dresses, and that
the riders in the swings sat in the oriental fashion. There was abooth
with dancing girls: a horrid sight, which we were glad to turn away
from. So hideous a creature as the one who was dancing, I never saw;
the music was only the ordinary drum, or torn-tom. as it would be
called further south in Africa: and the dancing is an observance which
we could never understand,—there being neither grace, nor mirth, nor
any other merit in it that we could perceive. Whenever we saw it,
in this booth, in the hareems, or on our deck, it appeared to us the
same disagreeable and foolish wriggle, without activity of limb, or grace
of attitude. The rest of the spectacle at this fate was merely swing~
Page-253
IODEI OF 1.1!] 0' m EGYPTIANI. 251

ing. and feeding at the stalls. The Arabs are fond of sucking the
sugar-cane, which indeed I think very-pleasant myself. We never
rode through Cairo withottt meeting people thus enjoying themselves ;
and during our voyage, the avidity of the crew. when they could con-
trive to land in a cane patch, was remarkable. Watchmen would
come rushing down, to defend the' canes: and we were made seriously
uneasy sometimes by seeing what bundles our men carried away under
their arms. If we remonstrated, we were told that they had paid for
them. Perhaps they might; but I could never, by the sharpest watch-
ing, see the payment made: and 'I did see, now and then, that the
country people were very angry.

Of course. the chief interest in these fetes which we saw, and where-
ever many people were gathered together, was in observing their faces.
The Arab face is very beautiful; and the expression has so much to do
with it that the worst set of features is not ugly, as it would be else.
where. One face, of which I saw a good deal. would appear hideous
if drawnin proﬁle, or presented in a cast,-—with its outrageously thick
lips, immense jaw and ugly nose: butI think of that face as almost
beautiful. The brown complexion (which, in this case, precisely
matched the owner's cinnamon-colored vest) is a kind of veil to Eng-
lish eyes. softening down harshness of features: and then. there are
the brilliant teeth. quite universally magniﬁcent. and only injured by
the strange practical have mentioned—of drawing the teeth needful
for biting cartridges :—and then, there are the beautiful eyes, soft, clear
and intelligent; and the exquisite grace of carriage and gesture. set off
to the utmost by the oriental dress. Among these advantages, the ugli-
ness of particular features is almost lost: and the prevailing impres-
sion of the observer is that he sees beauty wherever he turns. The
pathetic expression of the Arab face, its softness and melancholy: the
ﬂowing dress. the slow movement, (in the absence of causes of dis-
turbance,) give the impression of great dignity, it is true. but also of
languor and delicacy: but the muscular strength of these pathetic Arabs
is very great. It is not only that they can support fatigue and hunger
in their journeys. and wrestle vigorously with an opponent, in one of the
quarrels they are so fond of falling into: they lift prodigious weights,
and carry vast burdens in cool blood. We understood our dragoman's
health not to be very good; and I certainly doubted his ﬁtness for his
ofﬁce at ﬁrst. when it was clear that his lungs were weak; but the
daily proofs he gave of muscular strength would have surprised many
a stout English servant.

As for accurate knowledge of the health and length of life of the
Egyptians. there is none to be had. The distrust existing between the
government and the people is a bar to the obtaining of any reliable
information about any of their aﬁ'airs: and the observations of a passing
stranger can be worth little. My impression was that of travelers
generally. I was surprised to see how dirty and unhealthy-looking
children can grow into strong and well-formed men and women: and
l was struck by the small proportion of sick that came under my no-
tice throughout the country. On the whole. a stranger would be dis-
Page-254
252 amass am.

posed to conclude that the poorer classes. whom the curse of polygamy
scarcely reaches, must be in favorable circumstances in regard to health.
—judging from the prevalence of muscular strength. of ﬁne teeth. and
of beauty of form and face. Among the richer classes. where a viler

polygamy prevails than in almost any country of the world, it is far
otherwise. '

We were so fortunate as to witness a much more imposing festival
than that of the birth of the Prophet:-—the return of the Mahhmil.

0n the morning of Sunday, the 14th of January. the news ﬂew
through the city of the return of the Pilgrims from Meklteh. This
pilgrimage is always subject to so many hardships and dangers. so
many lives and fortunes are concerned in it. and there is such an ab~
sence of news from the departure of the caravan till its return. that its
re-appearanee is always an occasion of great excitement: and this year
the excitement was unusually strong. from the cholera having committed
great ravages among the pilgrims. As soon as this fact was made known
in the city by the ﬁrst comers, early that Sunday morning. crowds
poured out to meet the caravan ;—crowds of people. each one of whom
was in suspense about the life of some relation or friend. We were
told by friends who happened to witness this meeting, that it was a
very touching sight; and that the joy of some, and the dreadful wailing
of others. were indeed quite overpowering. The report in the city
throughout the day was that eight thousand out of thirty thousand had
perished; but this was a great exaggeration. as we soon found. The
caravan consisted of seventy thousand in the whole—Cairo. that is.
Egypt, sending out about thirty thousand of these. One-tenth of the
whole, seven thousand. were carried off by cholera.

We rode, in the afternoon. to the encampment outside the walls.
There was not much to see, the pilgrims having naturally entered the
city and gone home, instead of waiting to join the procession of the
next morning. Out of the two thousand camels of the morning. we
saw only about one hundred and ﬁfty. The tents were to the last de-
gree shabby and sordid-looking; and so were the machines—the cano-
pied-boxes—in which some of the women and children were carried on
the backs of camels: but one likes to see the shabbiness which tells of
the reality of such a pilgrimage. A governor of the expedition is ap-
pointed yearly: and here the governor with his attendants was sitting
in his tawdry and faded green tent. smoking. and permitting the gaze of
all who came. We saw how the beasts of the caravan are tethered at
night, and observed a few groups of the pilgrims, eating or lounging, or
tending their children ; and that was all.

Accounts diﬂ'ered as to the time when the procession was to enter.
the next morning. Ales had hired for tie a shop-front in the Turkish
bazaar; and there we were seated, by seven o'clock,l think, on a car-
pet. at the level of the people's shoulders ;—in as good a place as could
be had. While there, no insult whatever was offered us; and our pre~
sence seemed to excite very little notice. except among those who
wanted baksheesh. Afterwards, when we were riding after the Mahh-
mil to the citadel. and when the press of the crowd made the act a safe
Page-255
'rnn tannins. 253

one, somebody spat a mouthful of chewed sugar-cane at me; and I
received a smart slap in the face from a millet-stalk: and one or two
other persons in the Frank group met with a similar insult. But the
good behavior on the whole was wonderful, in comparison with former
times. Baké Bey, the ruler of the aﬂ'airs of the festival, had declared
that any rudeness to Europeans should be severely punished.

We had not to wait long for the procession; and the interval was
amusing enough. A pair of wrestlers came to show their prowess be-
fore us. Never had I imagined such wrestling. Their bodies, «bars to
the waist, were slippery with grease; and they took the greatest ima—
ginable care not to hold one another too hard. They seemed to sup-
pose each other made of pie-crust. They looked at each other with a
sort of good'humored threatening; shook their heads manfully; slipped
their hands round one another’s greasy arms; leaned their heads gently
against one another‘s shoulders; strove to pant and be out of breath;
and then turned to us for baksheesh. We had seen many a better
match on the river-bank, when two of our crew had quarreled about
a bit of bread.

There were no pilgrims in the procession. They were gone home,
or were entering the city more quickly and quietly by other gates.
First, came music, loud and rude: and next a company of foot-soldiers.
Then, the governor of the caravan,—the Emir el Had}. with his of-
ﬁcers. Then the Mahhmil:—which is the sort of vehicle or tent in
which a royal lady would ride on her camel, if she went on the pil-

rimage. The origin of the custom of sendin the Mahhmil is, as Mr.

ane tells us,‘ supposed to be that a royal la y did make the pilgrim-
age. in the thirteenth century, in such a vehicle; that her empty tent
was dispatched with the caravan for several years afterwards, as an
emblem of royalty; and that princes of other countries sent a similar
emblem. Why it is now esteemed so sacred as it is, no one seems
able to explain. The Mahhmil was. on this occasion, of square form,
with a pyramidal top. surmounted bya gilt ball and crescent. Its cover-
ing was of dark purple brocade, richly embroidered, in gold, with vari-
ous symbolical devices. It was carried by a tall, handsome, light-
colored camel, hung over with fringes and tassels, like the Mahhmil
itself, and led by a proud driver, who was soon to yield up the rein to
no less a personage than Abbas Pasha. This was the ﬁnal task of the
camel, which was never to work more.—Next came the only offensive
object in the whole show,—the Sheikh of the camel. This was the
old fanatic or knave who has attended the caravan for a quarter of a
century. rolling his head all the way to Mekkeh and back, every year.
I do not know whether he can now hold up his head: but if his brain
is really disordered, I am sure it is no wonder. He was naked, ex-
cept a little pair of old cotton trowsers; his hair grew bushy and wild;
and, as he rolled about on his camel, he looked. of course, perfectly
crazy. We were assured, however, that he is a rich and luxurious
man. having one of the handsomest hareems in Cairo, and another, no

' Modern Egyptians, II. 182.
Page-256
254 Issues Ll‘ll.

less enviable, at Mekkeh. This fellow is allowed by government two
camels, and whatever he wants for the journey. He is keeper of the
cats; about which cats we could learn nothing, except that an old wo—
man used to carry a camel load of cats in pilgrimage; and we suppose
the Sheikh of the camel has taken them in charge.

The next part of the procession interested me the most. The guard
rode two and two. These soldiers were in shabby, sometimes tattered
clothing; which was their badge of honor. Their clothing testiﬁed to
their activity and their hardships, during the three months that they had
acted as escort to the expedition: and they were now going to the cita-
del, to receive new dresses. Several camels, adorned with little ﬂags,
small tufts of feathers. and housings embroidered with cowries, were
among and behind these soldiers: and that was all.

Our asses were held in readiness for us to mount, and follow the
procession to the citadel, which we did without difﬁculty, though the
streets were crowded. We fell in with almost all the Frank travelers
in Cairo, making a pretty large and very conspicuous group, and a
curious rear guard of the procession of the Mahhmil. It was here,
when for an instant riding in single ﬁle, that I met with the insult I
mentioned: and [really did not wonder at it; and could not resentit,
putéing myself in the place, for the moment, of a devout Moham-
me an.

The ﬁnest part of the sight was now to come. In the midst of the
vast area before the citadel. soldiers were drawn out in three sides of a
square; music brayed; cannon were ﬁred; and cavalry dashed about
in the way which I had often read of. but had not, up to this moment.
seen. Such horsemanship is really a great sight, as I afterwards occa-
sionally felt in the Desert. It is no more like the best riding we see in
England than the swiftest run of a greyhound is like the trot of a cat,
or the ﬂight of a swallow is like that of a chicken. We have not room
for Arabian riding in England, if we had all the other requisites. It is
not every horseman who can get access to Salisbury plain, or a race
course, or a long stretch of hard and smooth sea-shore.—-Amidst the
noise of the cannon, the music. and the multitude. Abbas Pasha, the
grandson of Mohammed Alee. took the rein of the camel of the Mahh-
mi], and led it hither and thither and away. It was a spirited and
beautiful sight.

I have been so often asked since in return whether I saw the Ma-
gician at Cairo, that I suppose I he better say what I know about

im, and what I saw him do.—Some gentlemen in our hotel (Hotel
d’Orient) told us that they had engaged the Magician for the evening
of this Monday. the 22d. It was permitted to our party, and to some
other English in the hotel. to be present. The Magician did not come:
and on being questioned the next morning, he excused himself on va-
rious grounds; but it plainly appeared at last that he was afraid to
come t—afraid of being browbeaten and laughed at by the Franks, and
of having his fee taken from him (he said) by the people in the inn-
yard; He was promised civil treatment and earnest attention while
with us, and special protection home after the sémcs. Moreover, an
Page-257
was laments. 255

admirable interpreter was offered to us. Little reliance is to be placed
on the interpretation of any dragoman in this case: and Mr. Lane’s
nephew, Stanley Poole, kindly offered to come and be tongue to both '
parties. Those who have the pleasure of knowing Mr. Lane’s ne-
phews know that wherever they are, there is security for good sense, ’
cheerful kIndness, and gentlemanly manners: and on this occasion, my
young friend Stanley appeared to satisfy the Magician as much as he
pleased everybody else.

All the experiments were failures :—total and ludicrous failures: yet
I am glad we saw the Magician; because I have brought away a very
clear and strong impression of the whole case: an impression which
is shared by some who are qualiﬁed like myself to form a judgment
u on it.

pThe Magician, who Is rather a good-looking old gentleman, followed
his usual and well-known method of preparing and burning charms and
incense, and then summoned the Arab boy who had been brought by
himself, or some one not of the English party. When the boy crouched
down, close to the Magician and his pan of charcoal, the Incense burn-
ing was so powerful that three of the English party were presently
sound asleep; and some others were drowsy. I, having no sense of '
smell,and being therefore unaffected by the perfumes, was wide awake,
and closely on the watch. As soon as the old man had poured the
ink into the boy’ s hand. and had his own left hand at liberty, he rested
the tips of the ﬁngers ﬁrmly on the crown of the boy’ a head, and kept
them there. When asked why he did so, he rep lied that it was to
hold the boy' a head steady y, that he might look ﬁxedly into the ink,
'but it was observable that he did not touch the head of the others after-
wards brought In—nor mine, when I took their place. I saw in the
boy that peculiar quivering of the eyelids which is one sign of the we
sence of mesmeric action.

One specimen of the failures will sufﬁce. I was sitting opposite the
boy when he was told to call and look for Harriet Martinean. By
degrees he spoke the name t—saw nothing at ﬁrst; but presently said
the person was visible. " What do you see l"—“l see a young lady,
dressed in black silk, walking in a garden, leading a little child by the
hand. "——After a few more failures like this. he was sent away, and
kept carefully apart till one of the gentlemen had brought in a boy
picked up in the street. He, and another after him, succeeded no
batten—By this time I had arrived at the co'nclusion which [now
hold;—that it is an affair of mesmerism, and that the Magician himself
probably does not know it. If the truth were understood, 1 have no
doubt it would appear that, in the ﬁrst instance, a capital clairvoyant
did see and tell the things declared, under the inﬂuence of the old man’s
mesmeric power, and when there was accidentally a rapport established
between the questioner and the boy. I am disposed to think that there
was originally no imposture about the matter at all: that the Magician
did not then understand the causes of his success, and does not now
understand the causes of his failures. If he continues to take fees
without hope of success, of course he is now an impostor: but if he
Page-258
250 Issues Lin.

believes that his success or failure depends on the pleasure of spirits
whom he propitiates, he may be always hoping for success, and may
think it wrong‘to refuse the chance. It is true, he is meantime taking
money for what he does not perform, and is therefore fairly open to
any extent of suspicion: but I do not see reason to suppose that it is
a case of imposture from end to end. I wish a trial could be made by
some one who understands what is known of Mesmeristn. If a boy,
proved to be susceptible in the inferior degrees, could be subjected to
the Magician’s charms. and questioned, after being put an rapport with
the questioner and the interpreter, I think it probable that he would
succeed as well as the original oracle: or. if the ﬁrst should not prove
clairvoyant. a second, third, or fourth might. In my opinion, the ex-
periment would be well worth trying where subjects could be had of a
race probably so susceptible of the Mesmeric inﬂuence as the Arabs.

Seeing what I saw. and being myself a very good mesmeric subject,
I asked one of my friends to tell the old man that I had seen curious
things done in England. and knew the truth of such clairvoyance as he
professed to show; and that I would take the boy’s place. I knew he
would refuse, and plead some good reasons against it: but I desired
my friend to take no refusal. The old man presently said I might do
as Iliked; but he did not think it would succeed—More charms and
incense were burned, my hand was duly scored with ink, and the usual
pool poured into the palm; and I faithfully gazed into it. In two
minutes the sensation came, though there was no hand upon my head.
The Magician is a powerful. and. no doubt, unconscious mesmeriser.
Presently I began to see such odd things in the pool of ink.—it grew
so large before my aching eyes. and showed such strange moving
shadows and clear symmetrical ﬁgures and intersecting lines, that I
felt uncertain how long I could command my thoughts and words;
and, considering the number of strangers present,~l thought it more
prudent to shake‘oﬂ' the inﬂuence while I could, than to pursue the
experiment. The perfumes might have someeﬁ‘ect, though I was in-
sensible to them; and so might the dead silence. and my steadfast
gazing into the ink. But that there was also a strong mesmeric in-
ﬂuence present. I am certain.

I hope it will not be long before some satisfactory course of mesme-
ric experiment, like that so triumphantly pursued by Dr. Esdaile in In-
dia, is instituted in Egypt, or at Jerusalem. with Arabs for subjects.

As far as our knowledge goes (which is bttt a little way. at present)
it appears that the dark-skinned races.—as the Hindoos and the ne~
groes.—are eminently susceptible; and it is a loss to science not to as-
certain what they can do.—Nothing mortiﬁed me so much. in the
course of my journey. as the being obliged to leave unused such an ap-
parent opportunity of inquiry as I had while traveling among the
Arabs: but in truth, I had no opportunity. We were always moving
from place to place; there was no one who could help me ;-—and I
needed all my own strength to meet the fatigues of traveling. I mes-
merized a sick friend at Cairo. and found the exhaustion so great.—-so
unlike anything I ever experienced from mesmerizing at bome,-—thst I
Page-259
scam 1! cam. 25'!

was warned to be prudent, for my party’s sake even more than my own.
But I wish some few of the many] met abroad who know the truth of
mesmerism would unite to institute a course of experiments on Arab
subjects. All the naval surgeons I met in the Mediterranean know the
truth of Mesmerism as well as I do, and admit its importance: so do
some eminent naval officers there; and the Physician of the French
Embassy in Egypt; and the gentlemen from India who have witnessed
what Dr. Esdaile and the Bengal Government have done; and Mr.
Lane, and the Bishop of Jemsalem; and, in short, every man of edu-
cation, who has really attended to the subject. Among them, there
are some who think most of the curative powers of Mesmerism: but
there are others who see how inﬁnitely more important and inte-
resting are those of its facts which belong to Mental philosophy, and
who feel what an illustrious foreigner expressed to me, in London, not
long ago: “ It is a shame for your country that it should be behind
every other civilized nation, in regard to this portion of science. It is
strange that men should be slow to investigate a powerful curative
means. But when the same agent shows that man has a new faculty
of the mind,—a faculty hitherto not numbered among his powers,—
what can one say to indifference to such a discovery as theta—the great-
est that Man has ever made, or can ever make! It is a shame for your
country!" If others of our countrymen abroad will follow Dr. Es-
daile’s example in using their opportunities, they may yet redeem us
from the disgrace we lie underwith the educated classes of every coun-
try in Europe, for our want of a true philosophical spirit of inquiry and
teachableness in regard to the facts of Mesmerism. However, we are
wiser than we were a few years ago: and it is now a rare thing, I be-
lieve, to meet an educated person who does not regard the subject with
seriousness and candor, and, after inquiry, with undoubting belief to a
greater or less extent.

Cairo is indeed a pleasant place to spend a few weeks in, at the
season of the year when we were there. Besides the delightful tem-
perature, and its Arabian wonders and beauties, there is some agreeable
society. The Hotel d‘Orient and Shepherd’s Hotel were quite full
during our stay: and I believe there is seldom a time when many Eug-
lish do not meet at Cairo,—some coming from home on their way to
India, or for traveling objects, and others arriving from India for health
or holiday. Then, there are the European Legations, with their hos-
pitalities and agreeable society. And the kindness of Mr. and Mrs.
Lieder of the Prussian Mission is known to everybody who has need-
ed a welcome. or aid, or guidance in that strange city, so far from home.
There is another privilege. accessible to few, but of inestimable value
to the traveler in Egypt, which I was permitted to enjoy ;—inter-
course with Mr. Lane and his family. There is no need for me, or
any one. at this time of day, to say anything of Mr. Lane personally.
His opinions and character have long taken their rank;—a rank so
high that it is a sort of impertinence for a passing traveler to present
them. But I have been so often asked since my return home what it
is exactly that Mr. Lane is about at Cairo, and it concerns the best

17
Page-260
258 names Lin.

classes of Englishmen so much to know exactly what Mr. Lane is
about at Cairo. thatI certainly ought to tell, as far as I am capable,
how I found him occupied.

Everybody knows Mr. Lane's reputation for Arabic scholarship;
but too few know the generosity with which he has devoted himself
to the interests of scholarship, to the injury of his private fortunes.
and the sacriﬁce, for some years. of home and country. We are,
happily, never without examples of generosity before our eyes ;—the
generosity of men of honor, the generosity of the poor, and of the
philanthropic , and men of science and literature have never been
behind others in sacriﬁcing their means. whether of money, time, health,
or domestic ease, to the cause of knowledge and human improvemenL
Among these public benefactors is Mr. Lane; and I wish the nature
and extent of his labors and sacriﬁces were better known than they
are. One gentleman has shown his sense of the public obligations to
Mr. Lane ;—has shown that sense in the best possible way ;—by aiding
Mr. Lane’s object. The present Duke of N orthnmberland, when Lord
Prudhoe, saw at once that Mr. Lane's object was one of vast im-
portance, and that no time must be lost in accomplishing it; and he
acted accordingly. It is owing to him that the work has advanced so
far as that we may hope for its completion in, I believe, two years.

It is well known to oriental scholars that no good Arabic Lexicon
exists: and perhaps none but men of learning can fully understand
how important it is to the world that it should have a good Arabic
Lexicon; but it is evident enough to ordinary people that it is of con-
sequence to our knowledge of history and ancient literature to have
as good a key as can be found to the treasures of Arabic literature.
There are, in the Mosques of Cairo, materials essential to the forma-
tion of a perfect Lexicon which can be had nowhere else; these MSS.
are crumbling to pieces so fast that, if not used now, they will be lost
for ever; and Mr. Lane is the only competent man who has access
to these materials. He saw the importance of the object, felt the
pressure of the time, knew that he was the man for the work. and
therefore devoted himself to it, in a generous negligence of his personal
interests. He gave up a good literary income in London, the comforts
of an English home, and the society of family and friends, and went
to live at Cairo, working g, to the Injury of his health, at an unremune-
rative labor which he well knew the world would be slow to appreciate.
And there he toils, day by day, with his sheikh, poring over the old
MSS.. which can scarcely be touched without falling to pieces. And
there he must toil for two years more, till his work is ﬁnished—And
what next? How will our Universities, and the Government. and the
India Company show that they understand the boon which Mr. Lane
has conferred upon them? The common notion of welcoming a book
is, taking a single copy; or five, or ten copies. Is this what will be
done in the case of this rare book, which it is certain the public will
never buy! One of the European powers understands the matter
better than this;—-understands too that tokens of appreciation should
be given so timely as that they may cheer the toils of the laborer. and
Page-261
Int. um. 259

assure him that he is not working in vain. The King of Prussia has
been ﬁrst, as usual, to give encouragement. Since my return, I ﬁnd
that he has sent a commissioner to Egypt, by way of London. to make
arrangements for the establishment and diffusion of the work. I re-
joice at this: but I feel some shame that a foreign government should
ﬁrst have the honor—after the Duke of Northumberland—of welcom-
ing and fostering the work of an English scholar.

In thinking of Mr. Lane’s household, and the happy hours I spent
among them, it occurs to me to mention thus publicly (what it would
certainly never occur to Mr. Lane and his family that I should mention
in relation to them), the idea that struck me there. and many times
since,—what a pity it is that suchrlads as his nephews are not looked
to to occupy some such public ofﬁces in the East as are at present ﬁlled
imperfectly from‘the imperfect oriental education of English youths at
home. Here is Stanley Poole,—well educated as an English youth,
and trained in a virtuous and religious English home in the heart of the
East,—ﬁt, at the same time, to live among the people of the East all
his days ;—speaking their languages like his mother tongue, seasoned
to their climate. habituated to their ways, and familiar with their minds:
-—what a waste it will be if such a youth should be destined to any
occupation in life which might as well be discharged by any other good
and clever and accomplished Englishman, when there is such a want
of well-qualiﬁed diplomatic and consular agents, and (what is more
important still) scientiﬁc travelers who can make their way freely, and
use fully their opportunities in the East! While we keep at work
such expensive arrangements as we have at home for the preparation of
oriental oﬂicers and agents, what a pity it seems not to use the rare
chance, when it presents itself, of securing the services of promising
youths in whom are united the advantages of an English and an East-
ern education ! I say this wholly of my own accord. and without ‘
consultation with any one: and I shall be very glad if I ﬁnd that any
one who can act in the matter is of my opinion.

 

CHAPTER XXII.
THE HAREEM.

I aim two Hareems in the east; and it would be wrong to pass them
over in an account of my travels; though the subject is as little agree-
able as any I can have to treat. I cannot now think of the two morn-
ings thus employed without a heaviness of heart greater than I have

' ever brought away from Deaf and Dumb Schools, Lunatic Asylums,
or even Prisons. As such are my i ressions ot' hareems, of course
I shall not say whose they were that mIjvisited. Sufﬁce it that one was
at Cairo and the other at Damascus.

The royal hareems were not accessible while I was in Egypt. The
Pasha’ s eldest daughter, the widow of Defterdar Bey, was under her
Page-262
360 EAST!“ use.

father's displeasure, and was, in fact, a prisoner in her own house.
While her father did not visit her, no one else‘ could: and while she
Was secluded, her younger sister could not receive visitors: and thus,
their hareems were closed—The one which Isaw was that of a gentle-
man of high rank; and as good a specimen as could be seen. The
misfortune was that there was a mistake about the presence of an
interpreter. A lady was to have met us who spoke Italian or French:
butshe did not arrive; and the morning therefore passed in dumb show;
and we could not repeat our visit on a subsequent day, as we werein-
vited to do. We lamented this much at the time: but our subsequent
experience of what is to be learned in a hareem with the aid of an in-
telligent and kind interpretess convinced us that we had not lost much.

Before I went abroad, more than one sensible friend had warned me
to leave behind as many prejudices as possible; and especially on this
subject, on which the prejudices of Europeans are the strongest. I
was reminded of the wide extent, both of time and space, in which
Polygamy had existed; and that openness of mind was as necessary
to the accurate observation of this institution as of every other. I had
really taken this advice to heart: I had been struck by the view taken
by Mr. Milnes in his beautiful poem of “ the Hareem ;” and I am sure
I did meet this subject with every desire to investigate the ideas and
general feelings involved in it. I learned a very great deal about the
working of the institution; and I believe Iapprehend the thoughts and
feelings of the persons’ concerned in it: and I declare that if we are
to look for a hell upon earth, it is where polygamy exists: and that as
polygamy runs riot in Egypt, Egypt is the lowest depth of this hell.
I always before believed that every arrangement and prevalent practice
had some one fair side,'—some one redeeming quality: and diligently
did] look for this fair side in regard to polygamy: but there .is none.
The longer one studies the subject, and the deeper one penetrates into
it,—the more is one's mind confounded with the intricacy of its iniquity,
and the more does one’s heart feel as if it would break. '

Ishall say but little of whntI know. If there were the slightest
chance of doing any good, I would speak out at all hazards ;—I would
meet all the danger. and endure all the disgust. But there is no reach-
ing the minds of any who live under the accursed system. his a
system which belongs to a totally different region of ideas from ours;
and there is nothing to appeal to in the minds of those who, knowing
the facts of the institution, can endure it; and at home, no one needs
appealing to and convincing. Any plea for liberality that we meet at
home proceeds from some poetical fancy. or some laudable desire for
impartiality in the absence of knowledge of the facts. Such pleas are
not operative enough to render it worth while to shock and sadden
many hearts by statements which no one should he required needlessly
to endure. I will tell only something of what I saw; and butlittle of
whatI thought and know. -

At ten o'clock, one morning. Mrs. Y. and I were home from our
early ride, and dressed for our visit to a hareem of a high order. The
lady to whose kindness we mainly owed this opportunity, accompanied
Page-263
for. smart. 261

us, with her daughter. We had a disagreeable drive in the carriage
belonging to the hotel, knocking against asses, horses and people all
the way. We alighted at the entrance of a paved passage leading to a
court which we crossed: and then. in a second court, we were before
the entrance of the hareem.

A party of eunucbs stood before a faded curtain, which they held
aside when the gentlemen of our party and the dragoman had gone
forward. Retired sotne way behind the curtain stood, in a half circle,
eight or ten slave girls, in an attitude of deep obeisance. Two of them
then took charge of each of us, holding us by the arms above the
elbows. to help us up stairs.—After crossing a lobby at the top of the
stairs, we entered a handsome apartment, where lay the chief wife,—
at that time an invalid.—The ceiling was gayly painted: and so were
the walls,—the latter with curiously bad attempts at domestic perspec-
tive. There were four handsome mirrors; and the curtains in the
doorway were of a beautiful shawl fabric, fringed and tasseled. A
Turkey carpet not only covered the whole ﬂoor, but was turned up at
the corners. Deewnns extended round nearly the whole room.—a
lower one for ordinary use, and a high one for the seat of honor. The
windows. which had a sufﬁcient fence of blinds, looked upon a pretty
garden, where I saw orange trees and many others, and the fences were
hung with rich creepers.

On cushions on the ﬂoor lay the chief lady, ill and miserable-locking.
She rose as we entered; but we made her lie down again: and she was
then covered with a silk counterpane. Her dress was, as we saw
when she rose, loose trowsers of blue striped cotton under her black
silk jacket; and the same blue cotton appeared at the wrists,under her
black sleeves. Her head-dress was of black net, bunched out curiously
behind. Her hair was braided down the sides of this head-dress be-
hind, and the ends were pinned over her forehead. Some of the black
net was brought round her face, and under the chin. showing the out-
line of a face which had no beauty in it, nor traces of former beauty,
but which was interesting to-day from her manifest illness and unhap-
piness. There was a strong expression of waywardness and peevish-
uses about the mouth. however. She wore two handsome diamond
rings; and she and one other lady had watches and gold chains. She
complained of her head; and her left hand was bound up: she made
signs by pressing her bosom, and imitating the dandling of a baby.
which, with her occasional tears, persuaded ‘my companions that she
had met with some accident and had lost her infant. On leaving the
hareem, we found that it was not a child of her own that she was
mourning, but that of a white girl in the hareem: and that the wife’s
illness was wholly from grief for the loss of this baby :---a curious
illustration of the feelings and manners of the. place! The children
born in large hareems are extremely few: and they are usually idolized,
and sometimes murdered. It is known that in the houses at home
which morally most resemble these hareems (though little enough ex-
ternally) when the rare event of the birth of a child happens, a pas-
sionate joy extends over the wretched household :—jars are quieted,
Page-264
262 aas'rlan ms.

drunkenness is moderated, and there is no self—denial which the poor
creatures will not undergo during this gratiﬁcation of their feminine
instincts. They will nurse the child all night in illness. and pamper
it all day with sweetmeats and toys; they will ﬁght for the possession
of it, and be almost heart-broken at its loss: and lose it they must; for
the child always dies,—killed with kindness. even if born healthy.
This natural outbreak of feminine instinct takes place in the too popu-
lous hareem, when a child is given to any one of the many who are
longing for the gift: and if it dies naturally, it is mourned as we saw.
through a wonderful conquest of personal jealousy by this general
instinct. But when the jealousy is uppermosg—what happens then!
—why, the strangling the innocent in its sleep,—or the letting it slip
from the window into the river below.——or the mixing poison with its
food ;—the mother and the murderess, always rivals and now ﬁends,
being shut up together for life. If the child lives, what then! If a
girl, she sees before her from the beginning the nothingness of external
life, and the chaos of interior existence, in which she is to dwell for
life. If a boy, he remains among the women till ten years old, seeing
things when the eunuchs come in to romp. and hearing things among
the chatter of the ignorant women which brutalize him for life before
the age of rationality comes. But I will not dwell on these hopeless
miseries.

A sensible looking old lady, who had lost an eye. sat at the head of
the invalid: and a nun-like elderly woman, whose head and throat
were wrapped in unstarched muslin, sat behind for a time. and then
went away, after an affectionate salutation to the invalid.—-—Towards
the end of the visit, the husband’s mother came in,-—looking like a
little old man in her coat trimmed with fur. Her countenance was
cheerful and pleasant. We saw, I think, about twenty more women.
—-some slaves,—most or all young—some good-looking, but none
handsome. Some few were black; and the rest very light:—Nuhians
or Abyssinians and Circassians, no doubt. One of the best ﬁgures, as
a picture, in the hareem, was a Nubian girl, in an amber-colored
watered silk. embroidered with black, looped up in festoons, and
ﬁnished'with a black boddice. The richness of the gay printed cotton
skirts and sleeves surprised us: the ﬁnest shawls could hardly have
looked better. One graceful girl had her pretty ﬁgure well shown by
a tight-ﬁtting black dress. Their heads were dressed much like the
'chief lady's. Two, who must have been sisters, if not twins. had
patches between the eyes. One handmaid was barefoot,.and several
were without shoes. Though there were none of the whole large
number who could be called particularly pretty individually, the scene
was, on the whole. exceedingly striking. as the realization of what one
knew before, but as in a dream. The girls went out and came in, but,
for the most part, stood in a half circle. Two sat on their heels for a
time: and some went to play in the neighboring apartments.

Coﬁee was handed to us twice, with all the well-known apparatus
of jeweled cups, embroidered tray cover, and gold-flowered napkins.
There were chibouques, of course: and sherbets in cut glass cups.
Page-265
'rns: Hansen. 268

The time was passed in attempts to have conversation by signs; at
tempts which are fruitless among people of the different ideas which be
long to diﬂ‘erent races. How much they made out about us, we do
not know: but they inquired into the mutual relationships of the party.
and put the extraordinary questions which are always put to ladies who
visit the hareems.—-A young lady of my acquaintance. of the age of
eighteen. but looking younger. went with her mother to a hareem in
Cairo (not the one I have been describing). and excited great amaze-
ment when obliged to confess that she had not either children or a hus-
band. One of the wives threw her arms about her, entreated her to
stay for ever, said she should have any husband she liked. but particu-
larly recommended her own, saying that she was sure he would soon
wish for another wife,.and she had so much rather it should be my
young friend. who would amuse her continually, than anybody else
that she could not be so fond of. Everywhere they pitied us Euro-
pean women heartily, that we had to go about traveling. and appearing
in the streets without being properly taken care off—that is. watched.
They think us strangely neglected in being left so free. and boast of
their spy system and imprisonment as tokens of the value in which
they are held.

The mourning worn by the lady who went with us was the subject
of much speculation : and many questions were asked about her home
and family. To appease the curiosity about her home. she gave her
card. As I anticipated, this did not answer. It was the great puzzle
of the whole interview. At ﬁrst the poor lady thought it was to do her
head good: then. she ﬁdgeted about it, in the evident fear of omitting
some observance ; but at last, she understood that she was to keep it.
When we had taken our departure, however, an eunuch was sent after
us to inquire of the dragoman what “ the letter" was which our com-
panion ltad given to the lady.

The difﬁculty Is to get away, when one is visiting a hareem. The
poor ladies cannot conceive of one ’s having anything to do , and the
only reason they can understand for the interview coming to an end Is
the arrival of sunset, after which it would, they think. be improper for
any woman to be abroad. And the amusement to them of such a visit
is so great that they protract it to the utmost, even in such a case as
ours to-day, when all intercourse was conducted by dumb show. It is
certainly very tiresome; and the only wonder is that the hostesses can
like it. To sit hour after hour on the deewin, without any exchange
of ideas, having our clothes examined, and being plied with successive
cups of cntTee and sherbet, and pipes, and being gazed at by a half— -cir-
cle of girls 1n brocade and shawls, and made to sit down again as soon
as one attempts to rise, is as wearisome an experience as one meets .
with in foreign lands.—'I‘he weariness of heart is, however, the worst
part of it. I noted all the faces well during our constrained stay; and
I saw no trace of mind in any one except in the homely one-eyed old
lady. All the younger ones were dull, soulless. brutish, or peevish.
How should it be otherwise, when the only idea oftheir whole lives 1s
that which, with all our interests and engagements, we consider too
Page-266
864 max Lin.

prominent with usl There cannot be a woman of them all who is
not dwarfed and withered in mind and soul by being kept wholly en-
grossed with that one interesL—detained at that stage in existence
which, though most important in its place, is so as a means to ulterior
ends. The ignorance is fearful enough ; but the grossness is revolting.

At the third move, and when it was by some means understood that
we were waited for. we were permitted to go,—after a visit of above
two hours. The sick lady rose from her cushions, notwithstanding
our opposition. and we. were conducted forth with much observance.
On each side of the curtain which overhung the outer entrance, stood
a girl with a bottle of rose water, some of which was splashed in our
faces as we passed out.

We had reached the carriage when we were called back :—-his ex-
eellency was waiting for us. So we visited him in a pretty apartment,
paved with variegated marbles. and with a fountain in the centre. His
excellency was a sensible-looking man, with gay, easy and graceful
manners. He lamented the mistake about the interpreter. and said we
must go again, when we might have conversation. He insisted upon
attending us to the carriage, actually passing between the ﬁles of heg-
gars which lined the outer passage. The dragoman was so excessively
shocked by this degree of condescension, that we felt obliged to be so
too, and remonstrated ; but in vain. He stood till the door was shut,
and the whip was cracked. He is a liberal-minded man; and his ha-
reem is nearly as favorable a specimen as could be selected for a visit;
but what is this best specimen? I ﬁnd these words written down on
the same day, in my journal : written, as I well remember, in heaviness
of heart. “I am glad of the opportunity of seeing a hareem: but it
leaves an impression of discontent and uneasiness which I shall be glad
to sleep 03'. And I am not conscious that there is prejudice in this. I
feel that a visit to the worst room in the Rookery in St. Giles’ would
have aﬁ'ected me less painfully. There are there at least the elements
of a rational life. however perverted; while here humanity is wholly
and hopelessly baulked. It will never do to look on this as a case for
cosmopolitan philosophy to regard complacently, and require a good
construction for. It is not a phase of natural early manners. It is as
pure 3 conventionalism as our representative monarchy, or German
heraldry, or Hindoo caste; and the most atrocious in the world."

And of this atrocious system, Egypt is the most atrocious example.
It has unequaled facilities for the importation of black and white
slaves; and these facilities are used to the utmost; yet the population
is incessantly on the decline. But for the importation of slaves, the
upper classes. where polygamy runs riot, must soon die out.—so few
are the children born, and so fatal to health are the arrangements of
society. The ﬁnest children are those born of Circassian or Georgian
mothers; and but for these, we should soon bear little more of an upper
class in Egypt.—Large numbers are brought from the south.—the girls
to be made attendants or concnbines in the hareem, and the boys to be
made, in a vast proportion, those guards to the female part of the
establishment whose mere presence is a perpetual insult and shame to
Page-267
THE HAREEI. 286

humanity. The business of keeping up the supply of these miserable
wretches,—of whom the Pasha’s eldest daughter hasﬁfty for her ex-
clusive service,-is in‘ the hands of the Christians of Asyoot. It is
these Christians who provide a sufﬁcient supply, and cause a suﬁicient
mortality to keep the number of the sexespretty equal: in considera—
tion of which we cannotmuch wonder that Christianity does not appear
very venerable in the eyes of Mohammedans.

These eunuchs are indulged in regard to dress. personal liberty. and
often the possession of ofﬁce, domestic, military, or political. When
retained as guards of the hareetn, they are in their master’s conﬁdence,
—acting as his spies, and indispensable to the ladies. as a medium of
communication with the world, and as furnishing their amusements,—
being at once playmates and servants. It is no unusual thing for the
eunuchs to whip the ladies away from a window. whence they had
hoped for amusement; or to call them opprobrious names; or to inform
against them to their owner: and it is also no unusual thing for them to
romp with the ladies, to obtain their conﬁdence, and to try their dis-
positions. Cases have been known of one of them becoming the friend
of some poor girl of higher nature and tendencies than her companions;
and even of a closer attachment, which is not objected to by the pro--
prietor of both. It is a case too high for his jealousy, so long as he
knows that the cage is secure. It has become rather the fashion to
extenuate the lot of the captive of either sex :. to point out how the
Nubian girl, who would have ground corn and woven garments, and
nursed her infants in comparative poverty all her days, is now sur-
rounded by luxury. and provided for for life: and how the Circassian
girl may become a wife of the son of her proprietor, and hold a high
rank in the hareem: and how the wretched brothers of these slaves
may rise to posts of military command or political conﬁdence; but it
is enough to see them to be disabused of all impressions of their good
fortune. It is enough to see the dull and gross face of the handmaid
of the hareem, and to remember at the moment the cheerful, modest
countenance of the-Nubian girl busy about her household tasks, or of
the Nubian mother. with her infants hanging about her as she looks,
with face open to the sky, for her husband's return from the ﬁeld, or
meets him on the river bank. It is enough to observe the wretched
health and abject, or worn, or insolent look of the guard of the hareem,
and to remember that he ought to have been the head of a household
of his own, however humble: and in this contrast of what is with what
ought to have been. slavery is seen'to be fully as detestable here as
anywhere else. These two hellish practices, slavery and polygamy,
which, as practices, can clearly never be separated. are here avowedly
connected: and in that connection. are exalted into a double institution,
whose working is such as to make one almost wish that the Nile
would rise to cover the tops of the hills, and sweep away the whole
abomination. 'l‘ill this happens, there is. in the condition of Egypt, a
fearful warning before the eyes of all men. The Egyptians laugh at the
marriage arrangements of Europe. declaring that virtual polygamy
exists everywhere, and is not improved by hypocritical concealment.
Page-268
266 ass-nan urn.

The Europeans may see, when startled by the state of Egypt. that vir-
tual slavery is indispensably required by the practice of polygamy:
virtual proprietorship of the women involved, without the obligations
imposed by actual proprietorship; and cruel oppression of the men -
who should have been the husbands of these women. And again, the
Carolina planter. who knows- -as well as any Egyptian that polygamy
is a natural concomitant of slavery. may see in the state of Egypt and
the Egyptians what his country and his children must come to. if either
of those vile arrangements is permitted which necessitates the other.

It is scarcely needful to say that those benevolent persons are mis-
taken, who believe that slavery In Egypt has been abolished by the
Pasha, and the importation of slaves effectually prohibited. Neither
the Pasha nor any other human power can abolish slavery while poly-
gamy is an institution of the country. the proportion of the sexes re-
maining in Egypt what it is, there and everywhere else.

The reason assigned by Montesquieu for polygamy throughout the
East has no doubt something in it :—that women become so early
marriageable that the wife cannot satisfy the needs of the husband’s
mind and heart: and that therefore he must have both a bride and a
companion of whom he may make a friend. How little there is in
this to excuse the polygamy of Egypt may be seen by an observation
of the state of things there and in Turkey, where the same religion
and natural laws prevail as in Egypt. In Egypt. the difﬁculty would be
great ofﬁIIding a wife ofany age who could be the friend ofa man of any
sense: and in Turkey. where the wives are of a far higher order. poly-
gamy is rare. and women are not married so young. It is not usual
there to ﬁnd such disparity of years as one ﬁnds in Egypt between the
husband and his youngest wife. The cause assigned by Montesquieu
is true in connection with a vicious state of society: but it is not insu-
perable, and it will operate only as long as it is wished for. If any
inﬂuence could exalt the ideas of marriage, and improve the training of
women in Egypt, it would soon be seen that men would prefer marry-
ing women of nearly their own age. and would naturally remain com-
paratively constant: but before this experiment can be tried. parents
must have ceased to become restless when their daughter reaches
eleven years old. and afraid of disgrace if she remains unmarried long
after that.

I was told, while at Cairo. of one extraordinary family where there
is not only rational intercourse and conﬁdence at home. and some re-
laxation of imprisonment, but the youngladies read !—--and read French
and Italian! I asked what would be the end of this: and my inform-
ant replied that whether the young ladies married or not, they would
sooner or later sink down, he thought. into a state even less contented
than the ordinary. There could be no sufficient inducement for se-
cluded girls. who never saw anybody wiser than themselves. to go on
reading French and Italian books within a certain range. For want of
stimulus and sympathy, they would stop . and then. ﬁnding them-
selves dissatisﬁed among the nothings which ﬁll the life of other wo-
men, they would be very unhappy. The exceptional persons under a
Page-269
m mull. 267

bad state of things, and the beginners under an improving system must
ever be suﬂ'erers—martyrs of their particular reformation. To this
they may object less than others would for them. if they are conscious
of the personal honor and general blessing of their martyrdom.

The youngest wife I ever saw (except the swathed and veiled brides
we encountered in the streets of Egyptian cities) was in a Turkish ha-
reem which Mrs. Y. and I visited at Damascus. I will tell that story
now, that I may dismiss the subject of this chapter. I heartily dreaded
this second visit to a hareem, and braced myself up to it as one does
to an hour at the dentist's, or to an expedition into the city to prove a
debt. We had the comfort of a good and pleasant interpreter; and
there was more mirth and nonsense than in the Cairo hareem; and,
therefore, somewhat less disgust and constraint: but still it was pain-
ful enough. We saw the seven wives of three gentlemen, ands crowd
of attendants and visitors. 0f the seven, two had been the wives of
the head of the household, who was dead: three were the wives of
his eldest son, aged twenty-two; and the remaining two were the
wives of his second son, aged ﬁfteen. ’The youngest son, aged thir-
teen, was not yet married; but he-would be thinking about it soon.
The pair of widows were elderly women, as merry as girls, and quite
at their case. Of the other ﬁve, three were sisters :--that is, we con-
clude, half-sisters ;—children of diﬂ'erent mothers in the same ltareem.
It is evident at a glance what a tragedy lies under this ; what the hor-
rors of jealousy must be among sisters thus connected for life ;—three
of them between two husbands in the same house! And we were told
that the jealousy had begun, young as they were, and the third having
been married only a week. This young creature, aged twelve, was
the bride of the husband of ﬁfteen. She was the most conspicuous
person in the place, not only for the splendor of her dress, but because
she sat on the deewin, while the others sat or lounged on cushions on
the raised ﬂoor. The moment we took our seats, I was struck with
compassion for this child—she looked so grave, and sad and timid.
While the others romped and giggled, pushing and pulling one another
about, and laughing at jokes among themselves, she never smiled, but
looked on listlessly. I was determined to make her laugh before we
went away; and at last she relaxed somewhat—smiling, and growing
grave again in a moment: but at length she really and truly laughed;
and when we were shown the whole hareem, she also slipped her bare
and dyed feet into her pattens inlaid with mother-of-pearl, and went
into the courts with us, nestling to us, and seeming to lose the sense of
her new position for the time: but there was far less of the gayety of
a child about her than in the elderly widows. Her dress was superb;
-—a full skirt and bodies of geranium-colored brocade, embossed with
gold ﬂowers and leaves; and her frill and rufﬂes were of geranium-
colored gauze. Her eyebrows were frightful—joined and prolonged
by black paint. Her head was covered with a silk net, in almost every
mesh of which were stuck jewels or natttral ﬂowers: so that her head
was likea bouquet sprinkled with diamonds. Her nails were dyed
black; and her feet were dyed black in checkers. Her complexion.
Page-270
ass emu un.

called white, was of an unhealthy yellow: and indeed, we did notsee
a healthy complexion among the whole company; nor anywhere
among women who were secluded from exercise, while pampered with

all the luxuries of eastern living. .

Besides the seven wives. a number of attendants came in to look at
us, and serve the pipes and sherbert; and a few ladies from a neigh-
boring hareem; and a party of Jewesses, with whom we had some
previous acquaintance. Mrs. Y. was compelled to withdraw her lace
veil. and then to take of her bonnet: and she was instructed that the
street was the place for her to wear her veil down, and that they ex-
pected to see her face. Then her bonnet went round. and was tried
on many heads—one merry girl wearing it long enough to surprise
many new comers with the joke. My gloves were stretched and pulled
in all manner ofways. in their attempts to thrust their large. broad brown
hands into them. one after another. Butthe great amusement was my
trumpet. The eldest widow, who sat next me, asked forit, and put it
to her ear; when I said “ Bo !" When she had done laughing, she
put it into her next neighbor‘s ear, and said “ Bo !" and in this way it
came round to me again. But in two minutes, it was asked for again.
and went round a second time—everybody laughing as loud as ever at
each “ Bo !”—-and then a third time ! Could one have conceived it!
The nextjoke was on behalf of the Jewesses, four or ﬁve of whom sat
in a row on the deewin. Almost everybody else was pulling away
at a chibonque or a nargeeleh. and the place was one cloud of smoke.
The poor Jewesscs were obliged to decline joining us; for it hap-
penedp to be Saturday . they must not smoke on the Sabbath. They
were naturally much pitied: and some of the young wives did what
was possible for them. Drawing in a long breath of smoke, they
pnﬁ‘ed it forth in the faces of the Jewesses, who opened mouth and
nostrils eagerly to receive it. Thus was the Sabbath observed. to
shouts of laughter.

A pretty little blue-e eyed girl of seven was the only child we saw.
She nestled against her mother; and the mother clasped her closely,
lest we should carry her off to London. She begged we would not
wish to take her child to London. and said she “ would not sell her
for much money. " One of the wives was pointed out to us as par5
ticularly happy In the prospect of becoming a mother: and we were
taken to see the room in which she was to lie in,which was all In
readiness, though the event was not looked for for more than half a
year. She was.in the gayest spirits. and sang and danced. While
she was lounging on her cushions. I thought her the handsomest and
most gracel'ul, as well as the happiest. of the party: but when she rose
to dance. the charm was destroyed {or ever. The dancing is utterly
disgusting. A pretty Jewess of twelve years old danced. much in the
same way: but with downcast eyes and an air of modesty. While
the dancing went on, and the smoking. and drinking coffee and sher-
bet. and the singing, to the accompaniment of a tambourine, some
hideous old hags came in successively, looked and laughed, and went
away again. Some negresses made a good background to this tho-
Page-271
roughly Eastern picture. All the while, romping, kissing and scream-
ing, went on alnong the ladies, old and young. At ﬁrst, I thought
them a perfect rabble; butwhen I recovered myself a little, I saw that
there was some sense in the faces of the elderly women. In the midst
of all this fun, the interpretess assured us that “ there is much jealousy
every day;" jealousy of the favored wife ; that is, in this case. of the
one who was pointed out to us by her companions as so eminently
happy, and with whom they were romping and kissing, as with the
rest. Poor thing! even the happiness of these her best days is hol-
low: for she cannot have, at the same time, peace in the hareem and
her husband’s love.

They were so free in their questions about us, and so evidently
pleased when we used a similar impertinence about them, that we took
the opportunity of learning a good deal of their way of life. Mrs. Y.
and l were consulting about noticing the bride's dress, when we found
we had put off too long: we were asked how we liked her dress, and
encouraged to handle the silk. So I went on to examine the bundles
of false hair that some of them wore; the pearl bracelets on their tat-
tooed arms, and their jeweled and inlaid pattens.—-Iu answer to our
question what they did in the way of occupation, they said “ nothing ;”
butwhen we inquired whether they never made clothes or sweetmeats,
they replied " yes.”—They earnestly wished us to stay always ; and
they could not understand why we should not. My case puzzled them
particularly. I believe they took me for a servant; and they certainly
pitied rne extremely for having to go about without being taken care
of. They asked what I did: and Mrs. Y., being anxious to do me. all
honor, told them I had written many books: but the information was
thrown away, because they did not know what a book was. Then we
informed them that I lived in a ﬁeld among mountains, where I had
built a house; and thatI had plenty to do; and we told them in what
way: but still they could make nothing of it but that I had brought the
stones with my own hands, and built the house myself. There is
nothing about which the inmates of hareems seem to be so utterly
stupid as about women having anything to do. That time should be
valuable to a woman, and that she should have any business on her
hands, and any engagements to observe, are things quite beyond their
comprehension.

The pattens I have mentioned are worn to keep the feet and ﬂowing
dress from the marble pavement. which is often wetted for coolness.
Ithink all the ladies here had bare feet. When they left the raised
ﬂoor on which they sat, they slipped their feet into their high pattens,
and went stumping about, rather awkwardly. I asked Dr. Thompson,
who has admission as a physician into more houses than any other
man could familiarly visit, whether he could not introduce skipping-
ropes upon these spacious marble ﬂoors. I see no other chance of the
women being induced to take exercise. They suﬂ'er cruelly from in-
digestion,—gorging themselves with sweet things. smoking intempe-
rately. and passing through life with more than half the brain almost
anawakened, and with scarcely any exercise of the limbs. Poor things!
Page-272
270 mas-nut Lu‘l.

our going was a great amusement to them, they said: and they showed
this by their entreaties to the last moment that we would not leave them
yet, and that we would stay always—“And these,” as my journal
says. “ were human beings. such as those of whom Christ made friends!
—'I‘he chief lady gave me roses as a farewell token.—The Jewish
ladies, who took their leave with us, wanted us to visit at another house :
but we happily had not time.-—I am thankful to have seen a hareem
under favorable circumstances; and I earnestly hope I may never see
another."

I kept those roses. however. I shall need no reminding of the most
injured human beings I have ever seem—the most studiously depressed
and corrupted women whose condition I have witnessed: but I could
not throw away the ﬂowers which so found their way into my hand
as to bespeak for the wrongs of the giver the moumful remembrance
of my heart.

CHAPTER XXIII.
PRESENT CONDITION OF EGYPT.

I nut) in my journal the following complaint. “ One pregnant
fact here is that one can get no reliable information from the most
reliable men. About matters on which there ought to be no difference
of statement. we’ meet with strange contradictions; such as the rate
and amount of tax, &c. In fact, there are no data; and there is little
free communication. Even a census does not help. The present
census. we are told. will be a total failure—so many will bribe the oﬂi-
cials to omit their names. because of the poll-tax.” Thus it is that
neither I nor any other traveler can give accounts of any value of the
actual material condition of the people of Egypt. But we have a sub-
stantial piece of knowledge in this very negation of knowledge. We
know for certain that a government is bad, and that the people are un-
prosperous and unhappy in a country where there is a great ostentation
of civilization and improvement, side by side with mystery as to the
actual working of social arrangements, and every sort of evasion on the
part of the people. We have a substantial piece of knowledge in the
fact that men of honor, men of station.men of business, men of courage,
who have all the means of information which the place and time per-
mit, differ in opinion and statement about every matter of importance
on which they converse with inquiring strangers. I saw several such
men. They were quite willing to tell me what they knew; and they
assigned frankly the grounds of their opinions and statements : but what
I obtained was merely a mass of contradictions so extraordinary that
I cannot venture to give any details: and ifI give any general impres-
sions, it can be only under the guard. ofa declaration that I am sure of
nothing, and can offer only what I suppose on the whole to be an in-
dication of the way in which the government of Mohammed Alee works.
Page-273
Passes-r CONDITION or cover. 271

Of the Pasha himself I have little or nothing to say. It is a mere
imperlinence for a passing traveler to estimate the character of the
man. That will be a study for the future historian; and it ought to
be a wise historian who will hereafter review the life of the man, from
its beginning to its close, estimating his temperament, his position, his
intercourses and his opportunities, so as to decide on his personal
merits,—to judge him as a man. It may be easier toestimate his
relation to his people as a matter of fact, apart from the question of
his personal value: but I know of no man in the country who is quali-
ﬁed to do this: and of course no stranger who is anxious not to mislead,
will attempt it.—I never saw the Pasha, except once in his carriage.
He was gone up the river, to look about him and depose Selim Pasha,
when we returned to Cairo. And if it had not been so. we could
merely have seen him by meeting him in the gardens at Shoohra, or
in some such transient way as would have yielded us no real knowledge
about him—Having thus explained how small were our means of in-
formation, I will bring together here the few fragments I could collect
of knowledge or probability.

One thing is certain: that, in his endeavors to improve the civiliza-
tion of his people, Mohammad Alee has omitted the ﬁrst step, which
is essential to all substantial advance. He has given them no security
of property or other rights. Moreover, he seems to be unaware that this
security is the only ground of improvement. He appears never to
have learned that national welfare can arise from no other basis than
national industry; and that there can be no reliable national industry
where no man is sure of receiving the rewards of his labor. IIe ap.
pears not to see that public works. of whatever magnitude and utility, are
merely monumental as long as the people who are to work at them have
to be caught like game, marched to the spot, and kept there by com-
panies ofg soldiers, and paid at his mere will and pleasure ;—such of
them as are not killed off by his mistakes in the provision of food and
labor-saving tools. He appears never to have considered that schools,
however grand in expense, and in their appearance on paper, will not
enlighten the people at large while parents snatch up their children
and hide them, on the mere rumor of the approach of his recruiting
parties, or maim the young creatures in time to prevent their being
chosen for the schools at all. He seems not to see that the love of
knowledge cannot grow among the people while he sets his schooling
before them as an evil for which he gives in compensation money,
maintenance, and the prospect of a handsome provision in life. He
appears not to see that his people cannot become orderly tax-paying
subjects while every peasant is liable to ruin whenever his next neighbor
fails to pay his dues. The moment the tax-collector is mentioned,
the inhabitants of a village will ﬂy to the mountains, and hide there,
leaving their crops and goods at the mercy of the government ofﬁcers:
and it does not strike their prince that such a ﬂight Is not a stepIn
civilization. He appears to forget that the people will not become
more religious while he possesses himself of the endowments of
mosques, promising to keep up their condition, but so neglecting to do
Page-274
272 names use.

so as that all go to decay but those which have strong claims on the piety
of the Mohammedans. He does not perceive that lands will not be
the better tilled for his seizing on them, while the title deeds are care-
fully concealed, in hope of a favorable change by and by. He does
not see that every man is discouraged from improving his condition
while the bad faith of the government, through the corruption of its
agents, is a matter of course;-the general rule, to which the fellah
and the journeyman ﬁnd no exceptions. The Pasha may, if he can
ﬁnd the means, cover the land with his public works, his schools, his
factories, and his cattle from Dongola; but his people will continue to
decline In numbers and resources till he can induce a certain portion
of them to endeavor to improve their own condition. Among his
many enterprises, this, which should have been the ﬁrst, appears never
to have entered his head. That the population is declining, I have
myself no doubt. One oﬂicial gentleman may point to the plague and
cholera as the causes of a merelygtemporary depopulation of particular
spots, which indicates nothing of the condition of the whole country;
and another may reckon up the new canals made in his time: but these
considerations are no set off against the evidence there is of decreasing
numbers, and ofthe extent of land perpetually goingout of cultivation.
It is clear that the truth will not be learned by means of a census, while
the agents take bribes to set down a greater or smaller number. or have
to make a guess at the population of a village which they find deserted.
If the population be decreasing, the fact may be for a while concealed
by stout denial: if it be increasing, the fact must soon show itself, to
the satisfaction 'of everybody, in a country which certainly once con<
tained above three times the number of the present inhabitants, while
exporting food to a wide range of neighboring states. In acountry
where there is so much more than room for everybody, so much fer-
tility ready to every one’s hand, an increase of population must be
rapid and evident, under circumstances which admit of it at all; and
if, in such a country, there is no evident increase, but a general per-
suasion of its decline,-what can be thoughtof its ruler's boast of advancing
civilization l—There was a time when the Nile Valley was regularly
inhibited by a population of 8,000,000. The number of settled in-
habitants is believed to be now not more than 2,500,000; and it is, to
all appearance, still declining, as it has been from the beginning of
the century.

I cannot say that I saw much during my voyage which could serve
as material for an opinion on this subject: but I saw something. I
saw one new canal in Upper Egypt; and, to set against this, I saw
many and large tracts of land let out of cultivation, showing evident
signs of former irrigation and drainage, and sprinkled over, or bordered
by ruined cottages or villages. I saw a few factories struggling for
existence, while it was evident to English eyes that the only security
for their permanency was in the improvement of agriculture;—the
natural occupation of the Egyptians, and that to which Nature per-
petually invites them, and for which she would reward them, if the
tyranny and bad faith of Man did not interfere. But how is agriculture
Page-275
mum CONDITION 01 mm. 273

to improve under'such arrangements as the following‘l—The cultivator
undertakes to till a certain quantity of land,—all the land, it is under.
stood, being the Pasha‘s property, except such as he pensions or gratiﬁes
certain parties with. Some, I am aware, declare that private property
in land.of a much older date than the Pasha’s life, does exist to a great
extent. Others, whom I think higher authority, say there is little or
none. though the title deeds of a large quantity are hidden away, in
hope of better times.—And, by the way, what a telling fact it is that
there should be any doubt about such a point as this among well-in-
formed men on the spot l—At all events, whether the land is the Pasha’s
or another’s, the cultivator engages, in return for being furnished with
all that is needful for its cultivation, to hand over a stipulated amount
(not proportion) of the produce, after harvest. He receives, among
other requisites, an order for a good and suﬁcient quantity of seedm
corn from the government granary.—When he presents the order, the
great ofﬁcial gentleman at the granary directs a subordinate oﬂicer to
supply the applicant with three-quarters of the speciﬁed quantity, he
retaining the other quarter for his own fee. The second ofﬁcer sub-
tracts a second quarter; and the cultivator sows his land with half the

roper seed. Of course, when it comes up thin, he considers what

e shall do. The probability is that at harvest time, he will go out
in the night, and ﬁlch from his neighbors’ ﬁelds. while those neighbors
may be in his ﬁelds, doing the like. When the day of reckoning
comes, one or more of the neighbors (it may be remembered that some
of my party saw sight), may be chained and led 03' to be bastinadoed
for nonpayment of dues. Or. as some other friends of mine saw, the
Pasha may send a force to seize the land of a whole district, because
some of 4he cultivators may be unable, or be supposed to be unable.
to pay their rem—While such is the state of things, and in the absence
of any promise of improvement, the stranger does not see how manu-
factures should grow out of the agriculture of Egypt, or an increasing
population out of either. Nor is it easy to suppose that any cirb
cumstances which may lie out of the stranger's sight can neutralize
such facts as these.

The state of aﬁ'airs; does not seem to be mended by the Pasha’s
practice of giving away his villages,—which is the same thing as
giving away the people who inhabit them. When, for instance, it is
inconvenient to pay to any claimant or favorite ﬁve hundred purses a
year, the Pasha will give half the money and ﬁve or six villages.
Then, of course, the uncertainty of the peasant’s lot at best is aggra-
vated by new liabilities: he depends on the temper, fortunes and
business habits of his new proprietor, while he is not relieved from
the corruption of the agents with whom he has to deal. The mischief
of the Middleman system exists everywhere, whoever be the proprie-
tor; and while the proprietor may make matters worse than the ave-
rage, he can hardly lighten the evils of such a system, in any one
village—As might be expected, no such spectacle is ever seen as a
native bettering his condition, or attempting to do so. A foreigner,
whether he be a slave from Circassia, or a man of science from France,

18
Page-276
374 names 1.13:.

Italy or England, may rise to high honors and wealth; bntif any
native born Egyptian can improve his rank an fortunes,l never heard
of such; and It is certain that the people generally have no other view.
no further hope, than obtaining bare necessaries from season to season.
and I might say, in regard to too many, from day to day.

And now, what are we to think of the boasted public works of Egypt!
By all means let them proceed, if they aid production and transit. For
as much as the are good in themselves. let them proceed. But let it
he remembere that public works in Egypt do not arise from a ﬁrm
foundation of national industry, and that the people who work at them
are virtually slaves. The case is just the reverse of that of the public
works of Ancient Egypt. The old Pharaohs, natives of the Nile
Valle, raised their mighty palaces and temples by the hands of the
captives they brought into slavery from foreign lands. Now we see
the opposite case of a Greek ruler, his throne surrounded by foreigners,
raising the monuments of his reign by the hands of the enslaved nation
whom he calls his subjects. Those who can may choose between the
two cases for prefeience. In each case, there is much vain-glory in
the enterprise, and much barbsrism in the way of carryingitont. The
old Pharaoh thought to honor his gods, according to the morality of
his time, and made no pretence of beneﬁting his slave-laborers. The
modern Pasha does homage to the morality of his time by professing
to aim at the good of his people; but he outrages every right and every
interest of the many thousands who are driven to work at his patriotic

enterprises. As we have seen. nearly :1 hundredth part of the whole
resent population of the country (-31%.«100 out of 2,500,000) were
killed off in six months, in the making 01' the Mahmoudieh canal.

After such an experiment as this, the prosecution of other public works
by laborers no better fitted and prepared to achieve and desire them,
a pears to those on the spot a barbarism equal to any that can be
charged upon any heathen temple-builder of them all.

As for other laboring classes than the cultivators,—the boatmen are,
I am told, the moat fortunate. and therefore the most intelligent and
prudent. They are sure of the money they earn.and are exemp tfrom
the extortion which ruins the fortunes. and breaks the spirit of other
classes of laborers. As for the insecurity and extortion,almost all the
working classes seem as badly 00' as the cultivator. Everybody has
heard of Ibraheem Pasha's ﬁne garden at Roda. The laborers in that
garden are paid nominally a piastre and a quarter per day. Out of
this, they have to feed themselves. This they might possibly do, if
they really received the money: but they are paid in corn. or some
other produce which it is convenient so to dispose of, and this produce
is reckoned at a price higher than they can obtain for it.

At the Sugar-reﬁnery, near this garden of Ibraheem Pasha’s, the
people are paid with molasses, in a similar manner; and, in addition,
they have to bribe the msasurer of the molasses to give them due mea-
sure.—it being an understood thing that he will help himself out of
either their purses or their molasses.

While on the subject of the Pasha’s public works, it should be
Page-277
runner manner or rem. are

romembered. in justice to him. that he is under strong su'mulns to pro-
secute them. I am not. as I said before, attempting to estimate the
character of the Pasha. but only to tell the very little I could learn of
the condition of his people: but while his public works, with all their
ostentation, stand in such mournful contrast with the misery of his
people, it would be unjust to him not to mention death has about him
men of various European nations, who endeavor to serve both their
national and individual interests by stimulating him to enterprises in
which they may he wanted. or their country may he served. However
shrewd the old man may be on the whole, however he may amuse
himself by receiving ﬂatteries and holding out hopes, and hanging out
osprices, he cannot, in his state of crude civilization. be always clear-
sighted and prudent. He may be easily dazzled by the glory proposed
to him of doing something which shall make France and England won-
der; something which shall make the whole world think him the most
patriotic ruler in it.

At the same time. we see how cautious he can be about mattecs
which he really understands. Some people on the spot, as well as
many at a distance. wonder that a man who acted so wisely and well
as the Pasha did about our communication with India. when nothin
better could have been hoped from him than that he would have close
the passage through Egypt, should not yet have made a canal or rail-
way to the Red Sea, as he is incessantly urged to do. Those who so
wonder may be assured that there is more in the matter than has been
presented to them. It is a case which the Pasha happens to under-
stand, and about which he chooses to take his time. and to judge for
himself. He knows all about the shallows at both ends of the proposed
ship canal, and he knows also the precise depth of the interests engaged
in the railway scheme. He has amused himself by seeing locomotives
run on a little railway before his palace: he looked, and laughed, and
stroked his beard, and talked of the devil being in it; and he has some
reason to think that the devil would he in it indeed if he should be in
a hurry to lay down the rails which. as he knows, lie at hand, wanting
to be used. He knows what a devil he would raise among the Be-
doneens if he rashly took from them the carriage of persons and goods
through the Desert. What could he do with these wild tribes, if he
deprived them of their only proﬁtable employment? And how could
he compensate them for the loss of the Desert transport by which they.
now live? If the railway did not interfere with the Bedouesns, being
used only for India passengers and their luggage and the mails, it may
be asked whether it would answer to the Pasha to make a railroad for
this purpose merely, and to receive the proceeds only twice a month.
He may think thgt an inland canal, from the Nile to Suez, would an-
swer better, as it would be in use every day for the transport of corn

nd other produce. He may think that the whole matter, however
important to England. may be so dubious in regard to Egypt as not to
he hastily proceeded in at the risk of rousing the Bedoueens to harass
the country. If he appears to people in London and Paris as dilatory
pnd uncertain about undertaking either of these works as he has been
Page-278
2']. sum. un.

rash and positive about others, it is clear that there must be a reason
for his new slowness and uncertainty: and that reason may be other
than one of foreign policy. When I hear that either canal or railroad
is certainly begun in earnest, and not merely surveyed for, I shall believe
that it may be at work in time. Till then. I am not disposed to think
we shall have either during the old man’s life. If he goes seriously
into the undertaking at all, I think he will make a eanaL If he makes
a eanal.I think it will be an inland one,—from the Nile to Suez. And
if he makes a railroad, I think it will not he the English one which has
been so earnestly pressed on his attention, both from England and on
the spot. The only thing I am sure of, however. is that people at
home had better not decide what the Pasha ought to do, and represent
the matter as a very plain and simple one. For my own part,—-whils
seeing as distinctly as any one the advantage to my own country of an
improved passage across the Isthmus of Suez, and after having leaned
on the spot all that I could on every side, I see that it is a matter so
complicated at present with diﬁculties of many kinds. that I am glad
not to be obliged to form an opinion on what ought to be done.

I really feel very doubtful about sending this chapter through the
press,—so meager as it is, and yet so vague. I could have made it
much fuller, and far more interesting and distinct, if I had written down
what I was told,—or either side of what I was told. But, as I said
before, I could not rely on the information, while entirely relying on
the honor of those who kindly gave it. I have thought it best to oﬂ’er
only the little that I believe to be true. Of this little I cannot say how
much might be modiﬁed by facts which may lie behind: and I feel that
I know scarcely anything of the modern Egyptian polity but the sig-
niﬁcant fact that nothing can be certainly known.

 

CHAPTER XXIV.

GARDENS 0F BODA AND SHOOBRL—HELIOPOLIS.—PETRIFIED so
REST—TOMBS OF THE MEMLOOK KINGS.—THE NIIDMEI'ER—
LEAVING CAIRO.

Ta: roses which hang over the wall of the garden in the island of
Roda are a pleasant sight to the traveler returning from the south.
As some of our party had letters to the gentleman who is in charge of
the place, we went to see it. The fame of this garden proves how
diﬂicult it must be to have a good garden at Cairo. Besides the roses
(which were not abundant) we saw a few anemones and violets; and
that was nearly all. The fruits are oranges, dates and bananas, excel-
lent; grapes, pretty good; peaches and nectarines not good; melons
bad. Neither fruits nor ﬂowers can satisfy one who knows what gar-
dening is in Europe. Sometimes, there is drought; and then again,
the river comes up occasionally to destroy everything,—to drown the
garden. There is to be a steam-engine to water the place with; and
Page-279
nuoroms. . 27"]

thus the drought will be kept otlZ—I believe it is the fashion to admire
this garden, and to imagine it peopled by the Houris of Ibraheem
Pasha’s hareem. We were told by the gardener that the ladies had
been twice; but that their going was an exceptional event. This gen-
tleman can hardly wish it otherwise if, as I believe is true, these wives
of a grey-bearded man behave like disorderly children, doing mischief
to the ﬂowehbeds in their senseless play.-—The only thing that. struck
me as at all beautiful in any part of the garden was an elegant bamboo,
which was a treat to the eye. Everywhere else it was painful to see
the attempt at making an English garden of an arid plot, where it
seemed as if all the plants had quarreled, and were trying how far
apart they could kee . ‘ ‘ V

We were delighte , after this, with the Pasha’s garden at Shoobra.
It has a character appropriate to the country. It is formal, but exceed-
ingly pretty; studded thick with parterres of roses, geraniums and
stocks; and thick set as possible with orange and lemon trees. The
Djebel is charming ;—the hill ascended by a succession of terraces
connected by a trellised ascent. which conducts to a ﬁne point of view.
Such a formal and blossomy garden is in strong contrast with scenery
round; and the true charm of a garden is there accordin ly. We
thought it the only place worthy of the name that we had seen in
Egypt.—'I‘he kiosks round the central fountain are beautiful; and one
of them is a truly splendid apartment. If the ordinary gas-lamps were
absent, and better glass preseut‘in the windows, and more ﬂowers
about the fountain, this spot would nearly fulﬁl our ideas of garden
luxury in the EasL—I cannot imagine why the Pasha’s windows are
so badly glazed. In these days of universal late glass, it is strange
to look round the apartments of his palaces, and see‘his brilliant furni-
ture, and gorgeous bijoux from Paris contrasting with the coarse,
greenish, seamed window panes. Iwould advise the European power
which is most anxious to propitiate Mohammad Ales to send him out
a freight of plate glass windows. I can assure such European power
that a vast commotion of envy and jealousy will be excited in those
circles where every present made to the Pasha is regarded as an event
in the politics of the world. Come, now! which of the politicians of
the world will be quickest to glaze the Pasha’s windows?

The ride from Cairo to Shoobra is the pleasantest we found in the
neighborhood; I might almost call it the only one. It is under an
avenue of picturesque spreading trees, chieﬂy acacias. through which
the tilled lands on either hand show themselves. refreshing the eyes.
The Nile, spreading abroad in reaches, or ﬂowing between shoals, is
visible also; to-day in a state of singular commotion, from the strength
of the wind. The dust ﬂew in clouds, and the river broke in waves
over the shoals.

It was just such weather the day (February 19th) we went to that
monmful place.—old Heliopolis. We were to have made our ﬁrst
trial of camel-riding that day; but the wind was too high, though it
might permit us to ride lowlily, on our asses, through the fenced and
cultivated country. which lies between Cairo and the solitary obelisk.

I
Page-280
m ass-runs urn.

Our ride was pleasant enough while it was among ﬁelds, and under the
shelter of hedges and avenues of acacia. On our return by a diﬂ'erent
route, we were almost strangled with wind and sand.

The obelisk looks well from a distance, springing from among trees:
but as the sole relic of the once brilliant little city, the University of
old Egyptian learning, it is a mournful object enough. When one
comes near, one ﬁnds its very hieroglyphics ﬁlled up and plastered
over by the wild bees. Round its base there is a hollow, fruitlessly
dug to ascertain how deep its platform lies. The surface of the land
must have risen very much. Yet the circuit of mounds indicates
where the remains of the city lie. This circuit of mounds is what one
should come to Heliopolis to see. It is a moment not to be forgotten
when one stands at the foot of the obelisk, and looks round through
trees and over-stretches of sand at these mounds, and thinks of Joseph
coining here to fetch his wife. and celebrating the marriage with all the
courtly and priestly pomp of the time :—and of Moses, sitting here at
the feet of the priests, nurtured with such care and wisdom as would
be given to the education of the son of Pharaoh’s daughter :-—and of
Plato, dwelling within this circuit for thirteen years, as it is said. and
almost daily perhaps, in all that time, passing the spot where we are
standing now. and looking up at the tapering lines of sculptures, as we
are now looking up at the bee-cells with which those sculptures are
ﬁlled up. This was one glimpse more into the old world of Egypt,
alter the cloud curtain had seemed to cover all. After yielding this
brief glimpse, it closed again, to open no more.

On our retum, we were taken to see, in a sort of garden, the tree of
Joseph and Mary; a very old sycamore. under which, as Jews and
Mohammedans alike believe, the Holy Family reposed when they
ﬂed into Egyptg—by this honor rendering the tree immortal,—as one
would think it must be, if this be really it. _

In this direction lies the (so-called) Petriﬁed Forest; an absurd
name. meant probably to convey the fact that the quantity of petriﬁed
wood is surprisingly large. The ride to this spot is so interesting that
it matters little what lies at the end of it. After threading the narrow
ways of the city, we emerged by the ﬁne “ gate of Victory,"—the Bab
e’ Nusr,—iuto the eastern Desert, in view of the Tombs of the Mem-
look Kings, past whose courts and domes and minarets we rode in
among the sandhills. We had a ﬁne view of the road to Suez, which
wound away to our left; and then we entered the region of rock and
sand, of heat and drought, where, in a few days, we were to make our
home for many weeks. In about an hour, we began to note some odd-
looking stones lying about in the sand, and among ordinary looking
pebbles. These were pieces of petriﬁed wood. As we advanced,
they lay thicker; and before we returned, we had certainly seen an
astonishing quantity. Fragments of palm trunks, approaching to the
size of logs, were perhaps the commonest kind: but there were several
kinds of wood; even the bamboo was there, with its joints distinctly
visible.

Of course, we visited the Tombs of the Memlook Ringer—commonly
Page-281
rons or m name: autos. 279

but erroneously called the Tombs of ‘the' Caliphs; What a descent
from the tombs of the Kings that we had seen up the river! Yet these
well repay a visit; and it may be worth while to describe one of them,
very brieﬂy. These tombs look almost as well when one rides among
them as from the terrace of the citadel, where one is so struck with the
pale yellow domes and minarets, rising against their ground of darker
sand. NW those domes and spires stood up bright and sharp against
the cloudless sky. Round the base of the dome of some are inscrip-
tions in colored tiles, white letters on a dark blue or other ground.
Some of the walls outside are in courses of yellowish white and reb
alternately; the whiterbeing the limestone of the neighboring hills, and
the red a mere daub of paint upon the stones. These tombs are goi

to decay so fast, that the next generation of travelers will see but ﬁt“
of them. Some of the walls are slanting to their fall: others show
gaping rents; and many stones are carried away by the builders K
some new ediﬁce. '

The threshold across which we stepped into the enclosure of one di'
these tombs was of gray granite, split down the very middle of an an-
tique sculptured ﬁgure, whose cartonche remained entire. Thus do
men go on making for themselves inviolable tombs by violating those
of their predecessors! This fractured sculpture was laid‘down for a
door-step over which the kingly pride of this Memlook snltaun might
pass to its last repose: and now men cross this threshold, to carry
aWay the stones of the newer ediﬁce—but not to serve for another
royal tomb. '

Within the court, We found a dry and meager bit of garden. and a
well covered with a shattered wooden dome. Along two sides of the
court were dwellings; those of one side ruined; those of the other in-
habited by tenants who have them free. There is no competition for
these almshouses; for the people are becoming fewer in the land, and
there is plenty of houseroom. Apartments as good as these. and more
convenient for situation, may be had in Cairo for next to nothing; and
there is therefore no eagerness to live rent free in this place. On a
third side is a wall, with a beautiful minaret at one corner. This mina-
ret is fast going to ruin: but one of the gentlemen made his way to its

upper gallery, whence he obtained a ﬁne view—even to the second
station on the Suez road. On the fourth side of the court is the Mosque,
with the tomb of the sultaun at one end, and that of his hareem at the
other, each under a dome. The loftiness of this range was very strik-
ing: and indeed I never was in any mosque where I did not wonder
afresh at the height of the dome, and the magniﬁcence of the spring of
the pillars. The handsome stairs and pulpit of the mosque, and its
rich covered and inlaid screens, are rotting away. The sordid decay
was a desolate spectacle.

From hence we went to see aCoptic chu rch, which we found altogether
disgusting, from its profane altar-piece to the swarms of ﬂeas which
inhabit its matting. There was a handsome carved screen; but no-
thing else that we could bear to look at. The pictures of saints were
most audacious; and as for the altar-piece—any Mohammedan who
Page-282
880 mm

ever saw its central ﬁgure would be quite justiﬁed in chasing these
Christians with low idolaters. It may be well to look into these places,
to learn to be just towards the originals of other corrupted faiths, whose
symbols may no more represent their primitive ideas than these Coptic
pictures represent Christianity.

On Saturday the 20th. the weather was suitable for our ﬁrst attempt
at camel-riding; and we went to the Nilometer. We had committed the
ordering of the apparatus to those whose business it was, and who were
supposed to understand the matter: and they had prepared for Mrs. Y.
And me wooden boxes or chairs. instead of saddles. In these we set
out from the Hotel d’Orieut. The swaying motion. and the being car-
ried as dead weight, were excessively disagreeable, and especially to
one so fond of riding as I am. Being carried on a camel is too little
like riding at best: but while one is on a saddle, and holds a rein, one
may amuse one’s self with the semblance: but the being carried in a
chair permits no such relief. Moreover. it is impossibleso to fasten on
the chair as that it shall never slip in the least on one side; and the lean-
ing sensation is intolerable. It seemed very doubtful to me how long
I could support this method of traveling; and I wondered what was to
be done if my companion and I should have to protest against it in the
middle of the Desert. Happily we were seen by Linsnt Bey, whom
we met at dinner afterwards. at the Consul General’s. He has traveled
over more miles of desert than almost any civilized man. and knows all
about it: and he told us at once that we must leave our chairs behind,
and adopt such a method of cushioning our saddles as he would instruct
us in. Before dinner was over, he was sent for. to follow the Pasha
up the river immediately: but his instructions set us on our camels to
the best advantage. I often afterwards rejoiced that he had chanced to
see us that day.

We met in this ride two or three sons of Ibraheem Pasha’s—gentle-
manly and lively-looking boys. We crossed by a ferry boat to the
island of Rods, to see the Nilometer. which I was surprised to ﬁnd a
very pretty place ;—a damp, dim chamber. tufted with water weeds ;—
steep stairs down into it; and a green pool and mud at the bottom :—
in the centre, a graduated pillar:—in the four sides of the chamber,
four pointed arches—one ﬁlled in with an elegant grating :—round the
cornice. and over the arches, Cuﬁc inscriptions; and in two of the
niches, within the arches, similar inscriptions The crypt-like aspect
of the chamber. with its aquatic adornmeuts of weeds and mosses—so
perfectly in accordance with its purpose-—was charming, the charm
being aided perhaps by a sense of the unique character of the place.
I need not say that we did not see the base of the graduated pillar.
We are told that it is never seen. even when the Nile is at the lowest,
the yearly nominal cleaning out leaving yet a considerable deposit of
mud. We were glad to have seen the Nilometer; and this was our
last sight-seeing at Cairo—unless it was the Ezbekeeyeh. the next day.

The great square of the Ezbekeeyeh is always gay on Sundays, when
the Franks walk there alter church, and the Mohammedans sit smoking
in groups to watch them. Some of the returned pilgrims further enli-
Page-283
Llama cano. 28]

vened it this day. There were a few tents, and some conjurors; and
pilgrims walking with a ﬂag and singing: and then they formed into a
circle, and one man chanted prayers. The eastern and western groups,
-—-the turbans and burnooses here, and the French bonnets and mantles
there,—all among the dark acacias, or crossing the gleams of bright sun-
shins, make a strange picture, not to be likened to anything I saw after-
war s.

Monday, the 22d, was our packing day. I was to carry nothing that
would not travel in saddle-bags: so I took care that my saddle-bags
should be very large. Having stuffed them with necessaries,—not for-
getting plenty of paper and ink,—I put away all ﬁnery and delicate
articles of dress or use. in trunks which were to meet us at Alexandria,
three months afterwards. What kind of appearance I was to make
at Jerusalem and Damascus, it was useless to consider now. Saddle-
hags will not carry bonnets, caps and dresses which will not,bear crush-
ing; and all such were therefore left behind.-—The hems of our gowns
told rathera sad tale of the state of the ﬂoors in our hotel. We could
only hope that the Desert would prove a cleaner ﬂoor. We had done
our best by remonstrance here; but the answer to our petition to have
our rooms cleaned was decisive :-it would be useless to clean our
rooms, as they would be dirty again to-morrow! We had not our
remedy in our own hands, as Swift had with his man Ralph; so we
.were obliged to be patient.

Remembering the scarcity of water which we were about to encoun-
ter for some weeks, I washed and dried this day the few things which
remained over from the hands of the washerman. The occasion was
more strange than the employment; and strangely I felt it. Here we
were going to spend weeks in the newest scene and way of life the
world could offer us. We were going into the dreariest wastes of the
globe, with no means of existence but those which we carried with us.
We were going to spend weeks among rocks and sands. wild Arabs,
glaring suns, scorching winds, and a poor sprinkling of brackish pools.
How should we like it! How should I, for one, bear it? How could
I tell beforehand? I had had some experience, in former years,of the
hardships of travel in rude countries: but I had never tried anything
like this.—More strange still was the thought of what we were going to
see. Strange above all, perhaps, was the composure with which l let
all the imagery of this extraordinary prospect pass before. me. I could
not detect in myself any alarm, any surprise, any kind of excitement:
and I have little doubt of the same calmness being in the mind of
every one of the large company who were this day preparing to set
forth through the Desert.

And now—as to where .we were going. Before we left England,
Mr. Y. had asked me what I thought of our going to Petra. I laughed,
not at all supposing that he could be in earnest about English travelers,
—and especially women.—going to Petra. In my youth I had read all
the books of Arabian travel that I could get hold of; and I was aware
of the extreme diﬂiculty and danger of passing through Idumaaa in
those times, and up to the present day: I never gave a serious thought
Page-284
282 nurses ms.

to the suggestion of going to Petra; nor did I suppose that anyone
else did.

Till within a few days of our departure, our plan had been, as a Inab-
ter of course, to go by El Arish to Hebron and Jerusalem: and again,
Mr. Y. had asked me how I should like to go to Petra, if we found we
could get there from Hebron’; and again I had laughed, not supposing
him in eamest.—But a more distinct vision arose when many friends,
residents of Cairo. and passing travelers.—I think I may say all our
friends,~—advised and urged our going to Mount Sinai. This I did
most heartily desire; and certainly not the less when it appeared that
a large party of travelers. including English. Scotch and Irish, were in
hope,—a doubtful and vague hope, but still a hope,—oi' penetrating
to Petra, on their way from Sinai to Jerusalem. If they could do it. so
might we. But still, my thoughts barely glanced towards it; and when
I was told the good news that we were going to Mount Sinai, I felt this
quite enough, and did not yet look further. '

The large partyI have mentioned,—a company of as kind hearts as
one can ﬁnd in a chance wandering over the world,—wished us to join
them. We held off from the junction, feeling that the fatigues of desert
traveling would be quite enough for some of us, without any addition
from the presence of numbers. As for me. I am a particularly unso-
ciablemember of a traveling party; as I suppose every deaf person
must be who wishes to proﬁt by the ‘ourney. It is impossible for a
deaf person to listen from the ridge 0 a camel, and note the objects of
travel at the same time. So my way must be to ride in silence during
the traveling hours; and we did not expect to have strength left for any
evening sociability. We therefore engaged our own sheikh and escort,
and twenty camels, wished our friendly compatriots a good journey,

and resolved to go by ourselves.

We were to set out on Tuesday morning, February 23d. 0n the
Monday we bade farewell to our Cairo friends; and Stanley Poole and
his brother accompanied me to the terrace of the citadel, for one more
enjoyment of that glorious view.—That evening. the mail from Eng-
land arrived. In the morning, we waited for letters; and Mr. E.’s
share detained us till after an early dinner.

For some days our preparations had been very visible in the court-
ard and environs of our hotel. Mr. Y.’s large tent, which was to
ouse Mrs. Y. and me, had been stoutly lined for warmth at night.—

Our sheikh, Bishara, with his bright and genial face, had basked there
in the sun every day, and given his advice on our affairs; and our
camels had been brought to the spot. All this morning, the cross-
grained brutes had been growling and groaning in the yard; and when
their loads were put on, their vicious lamentations were horrible to
bean—Before two, 1*. I.,'we were mounted; and we paced forth in
Erocession through the streets of Cairo. The sheikh wore under his
lue bur-noose, a brilliant dress of green satinet, striped with red and
gold color. The gentlemen were dressed half and half, Eastern and
European. Alee and the cook were smoking after the toils of the
Page-285
navmo canto. 283

morning :—-my camel-driver kissed my camel repeatedly, and allured
the creature to stoop and offer its huge lips to the salute. ‘

From my high seat. I saw more of the deep, dim. wide interiors of
the Cairo dwellings, and of the people at their trades, than I ever did
before. This last view of the streets was the best: but there was some-
thing mouruful in passing for the last time those picturesque alleys.
and imposing mosques, and busy bazaars, and the captivating groups
of oriental ﬁgures of which the eye never tires.—We passed out near
the citadel, traversed the bazaar or market which was formed outside
the gates, and entered upon the sand of the Desert.

I now thought camel riding as easy as sleeping on a feather bed.
I found afterwards how little ﬁrst impressions are worth in such a case;
but in this unexpected ease, and in the beauty about me, and the pros-
pect of the journey before me, I was very happy, when 10! at about
two miles from the city, there were the green and blue and white
tents of the British travelers !—I supposed that they had been delayed,
and that we should pass them: but no !—our camels were made to lie
down, and we were made to dismount, on reaching the camp. This
was Bissateen; and the escort never will go further than Bissateen the
ﬁrst day. that there may be an opportunity of supplying any needful
article that may have been forgotteu.—Here we were, after all, in junc-
tion with the British travelers ;—a junction much approved by the es-
cort, as condoning to the safety of all parties. We separated no more
till we left Jerusalem, nearly two months allerwards.

We strolled about in the sunset light, bidding many a farewell to
Cairo. which stood out clear and bright in the evening glam—its cita-
del predominant. The green levels between us and the Nile looked
ﬂatter in surface and more vivid in color than ever. Over westward
were the Pyramids, glorious against the orange sky; and near us the
palm grove belonging to Bissateen. and the wells where the women
came with their water-pots and cords. Close at hand was our camp,
with the Arabs in groups round the ﬁres, and camels lying about as if
they wanted to he sketched. We were not sorry now to have stopped
for the night within sight of Cairo and the Pyramids.

As I consider this day the last of our Egyptian life,l shall here
close my ﬁrst Part. It is true, we did not pass the Egyptian frontier
for some days; but our life in the Desert was so Arabian in its charac-
ter and interests as to belong to the Arabian section of this book.

Here, then, we take leave of Egypt,—to me by far the most interest-
ing portion of our travels. I believe that some others did not ﬁnd it so
in the experience of their journey; and I hope my readers may not in
the retrospect. And yet I should like them to feel with me in regard
to the surpassing interest of Egypt. even at the cost of their relishing
the latter alf of my book less than the ﬁrst.
Page-286

Page-287
PART II.

SINAI AND ITS FAITH.-
Page-288
“If I have beheld the Sun in his splendor,
Or the Moon sdvnncing in brightness,
And my heart have been secretly enticed,
And my mouth have kissed my hand,—
Thls also were a crime to be punished by the judge;
For I should have denied the God who is above."
Job, XXXI. 26-28.

"Celsus seemeth here to me to do just as if a mu traveling‘into Egypt, where
the wise men of the Egyptinns, according to their country-learning, philosophize
much about those things that ere warmed by them divine, whilst the idiots, in the
meantime, hearing only certain ﬁlbles which they‘ know not the meaning of, are
very much pleased therewith: Celsus, I say, doth us if such e sojourner in Egypt,
who had convened only with those idiots, and not been at ell instructed by my of
the priests in their erosne and recondite mysteries, should boast that he knew I]!
that belonged to the Egyptian theology. What we have now silirmed concerning
the diﬂ'erenee between the wise men and the idiots amongst the Egyptians, the some
my be said also of the Persinns, nmtmgst whom the religious rites are performed
rationally by those that are ingenious, whilst the superﬁcial vulgnr look no further

in the observntion of them than the extemnl symbol or wremony."—On'gm opioid
Oct-tn.

"And he who had believed (Moses) aid, ‘0 my people, follow rue: I will direct
you into the right way. . . . . 0 my people, how is it that I invite you unto snlvu-
tion, and ye invite me unto the ﬁre! Ye invite me to deny God, and to associate
with Him that of which I have no knowledge; but I invite you unto the Mighty,
the Very Forgiving.I "—Kwu'n, ch. XL.
Page-289
SINAI AND ITS FAITH.

 

CHAPTER I.

MOSES BEFORE THE EXODUS.—ROUTE TO THE RED SEA—SAME];-
RIDING.

IN traveling from the Nile to Mount Sinai, the chief interest is in
following the track of the Israelites; and the person one thinks most of
is Moses.

In the island of Roda we had seen the spot where, according to tra-
dition. his bulrush cradle was found. At Memphis, we had been in
the place of his abode; and at Heliopolis, in that of his education.
According to a Mohammedan tradition. he was a learned priest of
Heliopolis. Whether this is probable or not, he was certainly of the
priestly caste, being adopted as a son of the royal house. At all
events, the early part of his life, up to mature manhood, was passed in
case and in the leisure of learned pursuits, in the neighborhood with
which we were now familiar, and whose natural features were dec 1”
impressed upon our minds by our grateful and admiriu interest in his
history. Its natural features (from which it is impossﬁile now to ex-
clude the Pyramids) were. however, all we had. Every change that
Time and Man could sﬂ'ect has been wrought; and we felt everywhere
that only by its natural features could Moses himself now reco nine
the region where his mind was born and reared. The cities he new
are gone, and others have arisen on other sites. 0f the race he knew.
not a living man remains, and another has come into its place.

But we were oing now into the region where his purposes were
born. reared ant? accomplished. We were to see objects which he
saw. and as he saw them g—the scene unchanged, and the people the
same, (one may say,) whom he met;—the same races, living in the
same manner, and presenting the same aspect. For some weeks to
come, we might look about us with his eyes. and become able, day by
day, to enter more into his mind.

He had three times crossed the Sinai peninsula on which we were
about to enter: three times, in very different states of mind. The ﬁrst
time, he was unhappye—his heart heavy with the sense of the degra-
dation of his Hebrew brethren. and his fortunes scattered to the winds
by the act of sympathy with his race,—his slaughter of one of their
task-mastersp—whioh had come to the knowledge of Pharaoh. Away
Page-290
288 annex use.

he went. across the peninsula, and to the opposite coast of the Eastern
arm of the Red Sea, taking up his rest with the Midianites. who appear
to have been more civilized than most of the tribes inhabiting the
desert. It is supposed that they were engaged in commerce.—-their
position being favorable to it. Josephus says that the men were not
shepherds, but left the care of their ﬂocks to women —The sheikh (or
priest, for the word signiﬁes both) whose daughter Moses married ave

Im the charge of his ﬂocks, it appears .—In the solitudes to whic he
now retired with his family, shifting his tent from valley to valley,
according to the needs of his ﬂock, and sitting down beside the secluded
springs among the rocky mountains, his mind wrought vigorously
among the materials stored up by his careful education. There is no
place like the Desert for fruitful meditation. There, among the Immu-
table forms of nature, lives the Past, for those who know how to look
for it. It will not rise to view among the changing scenes of social
life, nor speak where the voices of men are heard. But in the austere
silence of the Desert it presses its tale upon the tranquilized soul, and
will, to one who knows, as Moses did then. and Mohammed after him,
how to invoke, prophesy of the Future ;—of its unborn child which is to
redeem the human race from its sins and its burden of woes. Here,
as Moses sat under the shrubby palm in its moist nook. or lay under
the shadow of the rock, did the past come. at the call of his instructed
memory, and tell him how these mighty Egyptians had been slaves as
his Hebrew brethren now‘were, and how they had cast off the yoke of
their bondage, and risen into a powerful nationality by driving out the
foe who had oppressed them for a thousand years, and by restoring to
their honors the Supreme and his attributes, through whose aid they
believed all great deeds to be achieved: and here, to his clear under.
standing. did the future promise the redemption of his race, and disclose
the means by which it should be wrought. Here he learned to see,—
not at once as in vision, but in the dawning of many days, and from the
suggestions of many thoughtful years,—how the redemption of the
Hebrew race should be eﬁ‘ected, how far the precedents of former times
should be followed, and where they should be departed from ;—what
there was new and peculiar in the circumstances of his people, and how
these circumstances should be dealt with. He saw that the Hebrews
could not rise in revolt against their oppressors. as the Egyptians had
done against their Shepherd conquerors; for the Hebrews had not the
rights of native possession: and they were so debased by their servi-
tude as to be incapable of warfare. He saw that they must be ﬁrst
removed from the inﬂuences which had made them what they were,
and then elevated into a capability for independent social life.

He saw that they must be ﬁrst removed, and then educated, before
they could be established. In following out this course of speculation,
he was led to perceive a mighty truth, which appears to have been
known to no man before him ;—a truth so holy and so vast that even
yet mankind seem scarcely able fully to apprehend It ,—the tmth that
all Ideas are the common heritage of all men, and that none are too
precious to be communicated to every human mind. It was his clear
Page-291
loses prison: was norms. 289

apprehension of this truth, and his intrepidity in bringing it into prac-
tice which made Moses the greatest of men, and the eternal benefactor
of the world. He was before skilled in “ all the wisdom of the Egyp-
tians :" it was this which raised him above the collective wisdom of
all their long line of priests, and made him worth more to the human
race than all the sages together who have been born of it. His know-
ledge, even of spiritual things, vast, as it was, was limited. by the
boundaries of his time; but this one clear spiritual perception of human
rights madehim a benefactor for all time.—He did not rise to a higher
view of God than his being a national god, and the greatest of gods:
be regarded Jehovah as the god of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, and not
as the god of the Egyptians and mankind at large: but. limited as was
his view of God, his recognition of the spiritual rights of Man was the
fullest and noblest that has 'ever been obtained. or can, perhaps, ever
be obtained. Warned by what he had seen in Egypt, his purpose was
to admit to the divine knowledge which he held every individual of the
people he belonged to. By his pesition in the priestly class in Egypt,
and his learning. he knew how the priests of Memphis and Heliopolis
believed in One Supreme deity—~“ the Unutterable," of whom they
uttered not a word to any beyond their own class; and he had seen
how they presented to the people for worship merely the deiﬁed attri-
butes of their god, and consecrated objects whose sanctity they knew
to be merely derived: and in the degradation of the popular mind. he
witnessed the effects of this mistaken and presumptuous reservation.
As the images crossed him in his solitude of the reli ious feasts of the
Egyptians. the gross brute worship into which they ad sunk, and the
foul superstitions in which they groveled, he conceived the brave pur-
pose—the boldest enterprise. I believe, on record—of admitting every
one of Jehovah’s people to the fullest possible knowledge of him, and
to direct allegiance to him. Holding himself the knowledge of the
Supreme Jehovah, he aspired, on behalf of his people, that they should
have no other gods before Him. . In Egypt, he had seen the only theory
of government of which perhaps he had conceived.—that of a theo-
cracy,~—corrupted in its workings by such a concealment of the Pro-
vidential ruler as caused the people to rest their horn e and obedience
on the vicegerent, and become wholly insensible toagrat divine origin
of their moral and material government which Was acknowledged by
the priests. The class who monopolized wisdom and knowledge
recognized in the priestly brother whom they made king the favored
son and chosen agent of a divine ruler; but the people regarded their
king as the ultimate ruling power. The bold urpose of Moses was
to remove the medium. and to bring his bret ren face to face with
Jehovah as people and King. ,

When these purposes had grown out of his aspirations, the details
of the enterprise grew from perception into purpose too. The He-
brews could never become enlightened amidst the darkness of popular
life in Egypt. There could not be spirituallight in their houses, while
“ darkness that might be'felt” brooded all about them. They could
never be puriﬁed while the corruptions of idolatry swarmed within

19
Page-292
390 lawns ms.

their dwellings, and among their dress and foodr—coming up from the
river, and down upon them in the very air. They could never be
elevated in views and character while subject to contempt as “ an un-
clean people" (as Manetho calls them), and to the wrongs of slavery.
-—They must be removed. '

They must be removed :--but how and whitherl They were
cowardly, selﬁsh, incapable of concert and of ﬁdelity to a leader's purh
pose,—as the bulk of a body of slaves must ever be. Rising in revolt
was out of the question. A stealthy ﬂight was equally impossible.
They must come out in a body. and openly, and under the sanction of
the government. And the superstition,—and yet more, the fears, of the
governing power must be wrought upon. till the sanction was given.

But then, where were they to go! The countries from which their
fathers had come were occupied by people as warlike as the Egyptians,
and as superstitious. The sunken Hebrews could neither possess them-
selves of these countries, nor be safer from idolatry than in Egypt.
They must be led into some empty place where, without disturbance,
they might learn to live. They must be led into the Desert. No one
knew better than Moses at this time. the privileges of life in the Desert.
He had witnessed the hardihood, the self-denial, the trusting poverty.
generous hospitality. and the comparatively pure piety of the Arab
tribes who lived in tents in Nature’s ascetic retreats. These were the
very qualities the Hebrews needed, and could never attain elsewhere.
It was not civilization and its lessons that they needed. Civilization
and slavery were indissolubly connected in their ideas. Discipline
was what they needed; and not that discipline from the hand of man
which must include more or less of slavery; but the discipline of Na-
ture. whose service is perfect freedom. Here. while relaxing from the
excessive toil which had broken them down. they were in no danger
from indulgence. Here. while learning endurance. it would not be at
the cost of that exasperation of feelings which had hitherto embittered
their hardships. They would learn that submission to Natnre which
is as great a virtue as submission to Man is a vice. Here, among the
free winds, and bold suns. and broad shadows. with liberty to rave,
and exemption from the very (presence of Man, they might become
braced in soul. free in mind, an disciplined in body, till they should
become ﬁt for an ulterior destination.—No doubt, Moses reverted with
reverence to that prominent subject of Hebrew pride.—-the greatness of
his forefathers; and his hope for his brethren took the form of raising
them into a state worthy of their origin. He thought of their father
Abraham, pious, powerful, and rich in the wealth of the Desert: and
he looked forward to the time when these sunken children of Abraham
might so awe the whole region as to sit down where they pleased be-
side the springs, and rave among the boundless wastes, and pitch their
tents anywhere under the starry sky. and then worship Jehovah before
the door. As dwellers in tents had their great forefathers been strong
and faithful to Jehovah; and by a life in tents must his brethren regain
the hardihood and simple piety which their race had lost.

While Moses was thus leading Jethro’s ﬂocks in the Desert. and
Page-293
loans anon: Iran sxonns. . 39!

pondering the loading of that greater ﬂock of which he was to be the
Shepherd, the King of Egypt died ;—that king who had adopted him
as his grandson, and afterwards threatened his life on account of his
homicide of the Egyptian whom he saw tyrannizing over a Hebrew,
It was early in the reign of his successor that Moses moved towards
Egypt again; for the Exodus appears to have taken place in the fourth
year of this Pharaoh,—Thothmes III.

This was his second journey- over the peninsula of Sinai. thn
his purposes were ﬁxed and clear, he led back his ﬂocks, and his family
and servants, to Midian, and bade farewell to Jethro,—whom he met,
the next time, under remarkable circumstances. He took his family
with him; but they turned back to Midian, and left him to proceed
alone.-—'With what a new heart must he now have crossed these wilds!
Before, he was without a hope for his people or a purpose for himself.
and those two hundred and ﬁfty miles of rock and sand must have been
a desert indeed! Now, his new hopes and purposes, springing up
wherever he turned his eyes in this future scene of his enterprise, must
have made the wilderness blossom as the rose.-—-He did not enter
Egypt alone; for his elder brother met him. After consultation, they
went together to the Hebrew district, Goshen, where their next busi-
ness was to communicate their enterprise to the elders,—the heads of
families who, as a remaining patriarchal custom, held such rule as now
existed among the degraded people.

The third entrance of Moses upon the Desert is that which usually
interests travelers most,——not only from its importance, but because
modern travel follows its track. All the three were, as regarded Moses
himself, equally interesting to me; for I cared little for being certainly
on his very track,'while the scene was, in all its grand features, that
in which he lived. But here, in this third transit, there was the great
new interest of sympathy with the people whom he led. What this
interest and sympathy may grow to is perhaps inconceivable to those
at home who have only the vague and dim idea of the Desert that I
had before I lived in it.

As every body knows, learned men diﬂ'er about the road the Israelites
took in leaving their Egyptian abodes. No one knows exactly where
Goshen was, or where the fugitives crossed the Red See. It is not
necessary to go over the arguments here, as I have no wish to prove
that in the ﬁrst instance we followed the Hebrew track. Most of our
party, I believe, were convinced that we did; and among those so con-
vinced were the .clergymen. I do not see that sufﬁcient evidence
exists to give even a preponderance of probability, and I have there-
fore no opinion on the subject. When once on the other side of the
Gulf of Seuz, the route is, for the most part, clear enough. The doubt
is between two routes from the N ile to the Red Sea;—-that by which
travelers now go straight from Cairo to Suez, and the more southerly
one called Wadee-el-Tiheh,—the Valley of the Wandering. This
name shows which way tradition points out.

If the reader thinks it worth while here to look at a map, he will
see that a valley runs,-ﬁrst south-east and then east, from the Nile, a
Page-294
292 smut ms.

little below Cairo, to the Red Sea, issuing at the bold promontory, Rae
Attaka. Dr. Kitto and other learned speculators on the question, dis-
trust the tradition which has named this the Valley of the Wandering,
and believe that it is the way by which Pharoah hoped to drive the
Hebrews back to the Nile. On this supposition, the Egyptian host
followed the Hebrews to the head of the gulf, and then southwards
down its western shore. till the great headland. Rae Attalta, stopped
their march, and there seemed nothing for them to do but to return to
Goshen by the Wadee-el-Tiheh, which opened to their right hand.

However this may be, it was by the Wadee-el-Tiheh that we quitted
the Nile, having the Djebel Attaka on our left hand, and a lower range
of hills on the right. The two routes are about equally good for tra-
veling purposes; and very good was the one we went by; hard gravel
for the most part, or a ﬁrm pebbly ground, over which unr attendants
walked with as much ease as our camels.—And how many scores of
miles did I walk in the desert, during those ﬁve weeks! I found, as
some others did. the motion of my camel more and more fatiguing and
disagreeable, all the way; and, being at home a great walker, I had re-
course. more and more. to my own feet,—little heeding even the heat
and thirst in comparison with the annoyance: of camel-riding. I have
often walked from ten to ﬁfteen miles in the noon hours, continuously.
and of course at the pace of the caravan,—sometimes over an easy
pebbly track,—sometimes over mountain passes,-sometimes cutting
my boots to pieces on the sharp rocks: but always giving up when we
came to deep sand. Walking in deep sand in the Arabian Desert, at
noouday. is a true purgatory: but there is little deep sand. We did
not believe that more than one-ﬁfth of our Desert route was sandy.

As for the camel-riding,—l could not have conceived of any exercise
being so utterly exhausting. The swaying motion. causing an unin-
termitting pull upon one part of the spine, which can by no means be
exchanged for another, becomes at last perfectly intolerable, though
easy and agreeable enough at the outset.—-I would never say a word
to encourage any woman to travel in the Desert, if she must do it on
the back of a camel. If she can walk as I do, well and good; and I
am told it is easy and agreeable to go on a donkey from Cairo to
Jerusalem by the El Arish route. The footing is good enough for
asses and horses in the Arabian Desert—as the beautiful rid' of the
sheikhs may prove :—it is the want of water that is the‘diﬂicn ty. A
woman who can walk far and easily, and bear the thirst which is the
chief drawback on walking in the desert, may set out for Mount Sinai
without fear. I was so far from being injured by my Desert traveling,
that I improved in health from week to week, after having been very
unwell in Egypt. There is nothing to fear for a traveler who can
walk: but a woman who has no alternative, and must ride her camel
all the way, should consider well before she undertakes the journey.—
As for all palankeens, psnniers. chairs and boxes,—they are wholly in-
sufferable, adding to the evil of the camel-pace. which cannot be got
rid of, pains and penalties of their own.

Walking in the Arabian Desert is made more easy than in any por-
Page-295
ousa'r maven. 293

tion of desert I saw up the Nile, by the tracks. which are very con-
spicuous and rarely intermit. During our whole journey from Cairo
to Mount Sinai, I saw only three or four places where I should have
had any doubt of the road, if I had been alone. The tracks are sim-
ply discolorations of the dark pebbly ground or rocky platforms in
some places. and a hardening of the sand in others. Sometimes
scores of these tracks run parallel. winding away before and behind,
and dying out of sight on either hand, so as greatly to moderate the
sense of retreat and solitude in the desert.

I have mentioned, in the camel riding, the only drawback I remem-
ber on the pleasure of Desert traveling. It is a large item in the ac-
count: but my impression of all the rest is now as of one long delight.

 

CHAPTER II.

DESERT TRAVEL—THE RED SEA—SUEZ—LANDING IN ARABIA.—
WELLS 0F MOSES. '

ON the morning of Wednesday, February 24th, our camp was early
astir. ‘From this time. we found there was a competition among the
dragomen of the different parties which should get their employers up
and to breakfast ﬁrst. Our party was usually the earliest. After our
breakfast under the fading stars, we set elf, and saw, as we looked
behind us, the whole train winding on, between us and the brightening
Pyramids and palms. We took our farewell view of the Nile Valley
about eleven o’clock, when the last fragments of the purple line of
vegelation disappeared behind the sand hills. From this day forward
I obtained the management of my camel rein, which my driver was un-
willing to give up. It was a single rein of woven goat’s hair, heavy,
but manageable. The headgear of my camel was adorned with cow-
ries. The creature was very sensitive, and the merest touch of the
rein was enough to signify my pleasure. This was the easiest paced
camel I rode; but I was induced to give it up, after a day or two, on
account of its shying whenever I put up my umbrella, or opened map
or book; and I saw it once run away at such a rate as to reconcile me
to having exchanged it for another. Our pace was very slow ;—on an
average, and including stoppages, not exceeding two and a half or three
miles an hour. It was not permitted to any one to lose sight of the
caravan ; and the most heavily laden beasts of course determined the
pace of all the rest. The slowest trot, or amble, was the most agree-
able paee: and we enjoyed the relief of this daily after luncheon, when
the baggage camels had gone forwards; and Icontrived it often at other
times—either by lingering till the train was nearly out of sight. and
then overtaking it, or by pushing on where the tracks were clear, and
I could not lose my way.

In the course of this ﬁrst morning, we were allowed to dismount, to
climb a sandy eminence called Moses’ Seat, where, according to tradi-
Page-296
294 turn: un.

tian, Moses took his station, tocollect and review his multitude. The
interest of the scene lay in its extreme wildness and desolation. Only
three European parties had ever passed this way before us: and the
novelty did. we believe, attract the attention of the roving Arabs who
saw us, though they took good care that we should not see them. One
dark head was this day observed peeping over the ridge of a sandhill :
and the ﬂuttering of garments showed that the spy had taken ﬂight to
his hidden comrades. This man was the only rson we saw between
Bissateen and Suez, except one group of Bis ara's friends. There
was a popping of guns one evening after dark, on account, we were
told, of Bedoueens seen prowling about the camp: but whether this
was true we do not know.

Our escort were all of Bishara'a tribe; and some had faces as pre-
possessing as Bishara’s own. They were all armed—with pistols. or
match-locks, or short swords. A number of spears, stuck points up-
wards on camels' hacks. glittered in the sun. Some of the Arabs wore
sandals of ﬁsh skin ; some were clothed in sheepskins. the woolly side
inwards. All had their heads thickly covered, and where possible,
with something white, at least in the middle of the day. For the most
part, they trudged during the eight or nine hours of our daily travel;
but sometimes they rode in turn.

We were surprised at the variety of the scenery, this ﬁrst day; but
we were not long in learning that there is endless variety in Desert
traveling. To—day we saw wide valleys of hard gravel, narrow deﬁles.
water-courses tufted with low tamarisks and dwarf thorny acacia, traces
of pools left by former torrents, yellow slopes and mounds. dark and
abrupt hills, and limestone eminences, embrowned with the soil. some-
times lofty enough to be called, in Egypt, mountains. The Djebel
Rhaihoon is a black hill rising from amidst white sands; and l was
struck by the streaky character of some of the soil, on emerging from
the White Valley upon the Wadee Bede—resembling cloud-shadows
so exactly that it surprised me to see that there was not a cloud in the
sky. The White Valley is a ﬁne winding deﬁle. overhung by steep
and imposing hills ;—the very place for an assault from the Bedoueens,
if our troop had been less strong.

We stopped this afternoon in the midst of undulating pebbly ground,
where our tents were ﬁxed, to our great satisfaction, further apart than
at Bissateen. allowing us more liberty and domestic convenience than
when we were all so huddled together that conversation was overheard
from tent to tent, and we could not stir out without stumbling over tent
ropes. Of all the variety of ground on which we encamped during
these weeks, we liked the pebbly soil the best. Hard sand was con-
venient; but there black beetles abound. Son sand has usually large
stones strewn upon it, under which scorpions and other reptiles hide.
Of course, rock will not do.as the tent pegs cannot be driven in. Short
grass. on which we often encamped in Palestine, is pleasant: but then
there are earwigs and ants. The prettiest perhaps was at Petra, where
lilies were growing under my bed : but, on the whole, there is nothing
like smooth pebbles—our ﬂoor on this ﬁrst night. On the Thursday,
Page-297
omits mun. 298

we eneamped in the midst of a very wide valley, or plain, where hills
rose in the east, purple in the sunset. From a distant rising ground,
the encampment looked beautiful—the green and white tents, and the
camels lying round them, diminished almost to dots, and the smoke
from the ﬁres of the Arabs rising like blue waving threads. One of
the elergymen made an admirable colored sketch of this, which con-
veyed. to my eye, a better idea of the vast expanse of a Desert valley,
and the smallness of a large encampment, than any illustration I "ever
met with in books. The coloring would not be believed in England;
but it was very true. 011 the Friday. when the evening was coming
on, our Sheikh showed us what Arab running is. He ran before us
for some miles, crossing occasionally from side to side, on the look
out for some pool or well which he expected to ﬁnd. His running
appeared like a rather lazy trot till his diminishing ﬁgure proved to us
how fast he got over the ground. He seemed to lose no breath, and
feel no fatigue; and when we came near enough for nods snd'sig'ns,
his bright genial face was all smiles and cheerfulness. He found the
pool‘at last; but a party of Arabs were clustered about it. They were
friends of his, and they kissed very heartily. Some of ourescort drank
a little of the water; but it looked like muddy milk, and was nearly
exhausted by the ﬁrst comers; so that we all preferred what was in
our water skins. \

It may be as well to give here the order of our day.—of an average
day,—for the amusement of those who may wish to know what life in
the Desert is like.

We four carried with us two tents, and two servants besides our
escort. In the larger tent we dined and spent the evening; and there
Mrs. Y. and I slept. In the smaller tent. the gentlemen slept and
wrote their journals. Our servants were Ales, the drsgoman, and
Abasis the cook.—-a young man from Cairo, who served us faithfully,
and satisﬁed us in every respect. He spoke little English, but under-
stood us snﬁiciently. His English speech amused us very much.
He made “ Very well" go almost as far as our “ Bono” and “ Non
harm" in Egypt. These two words seemed all that he could command
under the emotions of parting, when the time at last came for saying
farewell.

“ Now, Abasis, we must say good—by."

“ Very well."

“I shall not forget you, Abasis. I shall tell my friends of you, if
they come to Egypt, that you may serve them as well as you have
served us."

“ Very well."

“ You will not forget us, Abssis.”

“ Very well.—no."

“ Here is a little present for you. If you like this handkerchief for
a turban. you will wear it, and remember me.”

“ Very well."

And all this time, his heart was full, while his words were so cool.
He carried under his charge what was called the Cook’s tent,-a small
Page-298
206 - 3mm: am.

affair, under which he stowed his apparatus, and where he and Alec
slept. His cooking was. of course, done in the open air, on a trivet,
which held three pans for burning charcoal, over which he put his
saucepans and baking-plate, and where he toasted our bread. He had
charge of the stores ;—the water-skins, ﬂour, biscuit, macaroni, cheese,
condiments, butter, eggs, oranges and preserved fruits; and the wine
and ale. It was his business to buy, keep and kill the fowls and sheep.
He worked harder than any one else of the party; and I wondered that
he held out so well. He had to be up to cook our hot breakfast by
ﬁve 0 ’clock,—giving us always fowl or hashed mutton, eggs. and toast.
He had then to pack up his stores and apparatus, and help in striking
the tents. His fatigue of mere traveling was, of course, the same as
ours; and when we stopped, he worked as hard as any one at the severe
labor of pitching the three tents, before cooking our dinner, which was
always ready within two hours of our dismounting. He furnished the
boiling water and toast at tea; by which time, he must often have been
half dead. Yet I never saw his face otherwise than earnest and wide
awake ;—never knew him ﬂag. It was really a pleasure to me, when
I went out under the stars in the evening, to see him and Moe seated
at their ease with their chibouques: but! believe they had seldom many
minutes together of such rest.

At four o’clock In the morning, or earlier, Alee brought a light into
our tent. Our tin basins had been ﬁlled the night before. and a pitcher
of water and tin cups placed on the table. I always slept in what is
called Levinge's bag.—an inexpressible comfort. ithout it, I believe
I should scarcely have slept at all; but, as it was, I lay down every
night, absolutely secure from insects of every kind. The ﬂies might
, hang in clusters, like bees. on the tent pole: the beetles might run
over the ﬂoor, and the earwigs hide themselves under the counterparts,
and ﬂeas skip among the camel furniture; in my bag,—-under its wide
airy canopy, I was safe from them all, and from all fancies about
them. It did not take me above ﬁve minutes in the day to put up and
take down my canopy ;—a small price to pay for comfort and good
sleep.—As soon as we opened our tent door, while l was taking down
my bag, and the gimlets which. screwed into the tent poles, served
us for pegs to hang our things on, Alee carried out our table and its
tressles and the camp-stools, and Abasis laid the cloth for our open-air
breakfast. We sat down to it at ﬁve or soon after, when the stars were
growing pale, and the translucent dawn began to shine behind the
eastern ridges, or perhaps to disclose the sheeny sea.—While we were
at our meal, we saw one after another of the other four parties come
forth from their tents, and sit down to table ;—the two bachelor com-
panions being always the last. They were generally sitting down just
when l was walking off 1n advance, with my courbash (hide whip) and
bag,—containing map, book, note- book, goggles and fan. By this time.
the tents were down, in due succession; the camels were groaning and
snarling. and the Arabs loading them—with an occasional quarrel and
ﬁght, for variety.—Having learned from Ales or the Shaikh which way
I was to go, I wandered forth; and many a glorious view I had of
Page-299
ulnar man. 29'!

the sunshine breaking in among the mountain ﬁssures, while the busy
and noisy camp yet lay in deep shadow below. One by one, the
company would mount and follow, or Mr. W. with his book, and Mr.
E. with his chibouque, would set forth on foot. In a line. or in pairs
or groups, the camels, with their riders, would step out slowly; and
then the two lively young ladies, Miss K. and Miss 0., would rouse
theirs to a fast trot, and pass us all by.—When the sunshine reached
me, or I had walked enough for the present, I put on my goggles, pulled
my broad-brimmed hat' over my eyes, and signed to my watchful camel
driver. Then, down went the beast on its knees. and my driver set
his foot on its neck while I sprang on. and settled myself with my stir<
rup and between my cushions, and stowed my comforts about me.
When I had ﬁrm hold of the peg before and the peg behind, the crea-
ture was allowed to rise, and I sustained its three jerks,—two forward
and one backward.—as well as I could.

At eleven o'clock. Abasis rode up with his tin lunchbox. to supply
each of us with bread, cold fowl, or a hard egg, and a precious orange.
Or, as oftener happened, we looked out at that time for some shadow
from a chance shrub, or in a rocky nook, where we might sit down
to luncheon, while the baggage camels went forwards. That we might
not be too far separated, we were not at ﬁrst allowed more than twenty
minutes for this rest.—It was a pretty sight.—the scattering about of
the company among the patches and nooks of shade.

After three o’clock, the sheikh and dragomen began to look about, to
choose our abiding place for the night. Where the sheikh points, or
stands. or plants his spear. there it is to be. Then, as the camels ar-
rive, they kneel down. and release their riders. This was the time of
day when I found the heat the most oppressive ;—in the half hour be-
tween arriving and taking possession of the tent. Within the tent, too.
it was often scarcely endurable till after dinner. though we looped up
the sides, to obtain what sir could be had. While the tent was pre-
paring, I generally tried to sleep for a few minutssmn the sand or some
neighboring rock.—It required about half an hour to put up and fur-
nish our tent. It was hard work to rear it. ﬁx the poles. and drive in
the pegs. Then Alee turned over every large stone within it, to dis-
lodge scorpions, or other such enemies. This done. and the ﬂoor a
little smoothed, he brought in the iron bedsteads and bedding. and the
saddle-bags which held our clothes. Next came the mats ;—two pretty
mats, brought from Nubia, which covered the greater part of the ﬂoor.
Then the table was placed in the middle, and four camp stools were
brought; and basins of water, and a pitcher and cup. Mrs. Y. and I
might now dress and refresh ourselves, while Alee and Abasis put up
the other two tents.

Mr. E. was to be envied at this time of day. He was in no hurry
for his tent, for he was engrossed with his journal. He would secure
a cainpstool, and lay his hand on his inkglass, and write as fast as pos-
sible till all was ready for him to dress; and then again perhaps till
dinner. I could not do this. I was very well satisﬁed with myself if
I wrote my journal after dressing and chibouque, and before dinner. I