
Page-300
298 um urn.

did it oftener between dinner and tea; and twice I let two or three
days pass before I brought it up. One’s journal is the chief nuisance
in such travel as ours. There is‘ no pleasure in it, one way or ano-
ther. About one‘s duties at home there is always some pleasure. be
cause one can do well what one undertakes: but one’s journal is a
perpetual irritation and mortiﬁcation. It is such a mockery! When
one‘s whole soul has been full and glowing for hours amo marvelous
scenes and new experiences, the only result in ope's jouruzfis a couple
of pages of record which one wants to tear out as soon as written, in
indignation at its poverty. But the deepest mortiﬁcation of this kind
is better than not keeping a journal. Anythingis better than the shame
and sorrow which must sooner or later ensue. when one ﬁnds the ima-
gery of one’s journey becoming hazy in the memory, and incidents
and dates uncertain. and trains of thought no longer recoverable. It is
worth any fatigue and annoyance at the moment, to secure certainty
for all future time in regard to the knowledge obtained on the spot. and
a complete array of pictures of the scenery one has passed through.—
On the Nile, it was easy to keep a full journal, and not wholly disa-
greeable. In the Desert. it required strong resolution; and I fear I
should not have done it if I had not felt that the thoughts of this jour-
ney would beembittered to me forever if I let it pass as a dream which
must fade. It was purel for the peace of my own mind thatl held
myself to this irksome uty; for I had then no intention whatever of
writing this book. Now I am, as I need not say, heartily thankful to
be in possession of the mass of papers lying before me, in virtue of
which the scenes and suggestions of my Eastern travel are securely
mine forever.-—I say this in the hope that my testimony may strengthen
some young future traveler against the indolence or humiliation which '
might interfere with his keeping a journal. He may be assured that
however meager his records and descriptions, he will be thankful for
them hereafter; and that no present fatigue can be so painful as his
future regrets if he entrusts to his memory what it will certainly let
slip or sped—After all, there was some satisfaction in my journal.—
at times when I had brought it up to the present moment, and when,
as I was wiping my pen. a breath of air stole through the tent, pro-
mising a refreshing evening, and Alee appeared with the soup tureen,
and the gentlemen came in, cheerful and hungry, and the bottle of ale
(the greatest possible refreshment in the desert. except the chibouque)
was visible in the corner. The thought of the ﬁnished journal cer-
tainly gave a zest to the diuner,—a relish which the two gentlemen
must have daily enjoyed, for they were daily diligent.

Abasis gave us excellent dinners—good soup always: mutton and
fowls always; and these Arab cooks discover an astonishing variety of
ways of cooking mutton. Then, there was macaroni, and potatoes; and
always some nice pudding or fruit pie: excellent cheese; and a des-
sert of oranges and capital ﬁgs. Then the chibouques were brought,—
at once the indispensable comfort and chief luxury of Eastern life :—
a comfort of whose importance there no more conception can be formed
at home than the people of the Guinea coast can appreciate our win-
Page-301
ms nan sea. 299

tar-clothing and ﬁres. Then I usually went out, to survey the camp
and scenery, and try to get rid of, or better endure, the sense of irrita-
tion from fatigue and heat which was at this hour the hardest to bear.
By this time, the impression of that suffering is much weakened, while
the images of the Arab fires, the dim tents and dark camels, the tower-
ing mountains ﬁtfully lighted by the moon, or the dim plain, all cano-
pied over by the lustrous heavens, or the quiet murmuring sea, ﬂowing
to my feet, are as fresh and delicious as ever. How often have
stolen round the camp, just beyond the tent ropes, enjoying the sight
of the camel drivers before their ﬁres. or the guard grouped about a
lively story-teller! How often have I wandered away among the cleﬁs
of the rocks, or so far along the beach as that I might sing unheard all
the beloved old music which I never utter at home, in our little island
where one can never get out of earshot!—Sooner or later, however,
Alee was seen going to our tent with the boiling kettle, and I was to
be refreshed by tea. After tea, we were all more awake and lively,—
just enough so to relish a rubber, though nothing else. A rubber kept
us amused and merry till ten o’clock; and I hardly think anything
else would have done it. We cared little about it; but it was better
than vainly trying to read, and being too sleepy to speak civilly.-—At
ten o'clock, the gentlemen went to their tent; Alee brought the water-
basins, and fastened down the tent curtain; and I put up my canopy.
and made my bed, and was presently asleep.—Such was the ordinary
course of our days in the Desert.

0n the Saturday morning. our fourth day from Bissateen, I saw the
Red Sea. At the moment when its distant gleam caught my eye, Miss
0., who was at the head of the troop, turned and waved her hand, and
1here was an immediate press forward. The tracks turned northwards,
and we were presently upon the beach. One and all dismounted, and
snatched at the glorious shells which lay in heaps and banks along the
shore. All pockets and bags were ﬁlled, and we were all presenting
one another with the most exquisite shells we could ﬁnd where all were
beautiful.‘ We were like a party of children; and like children, we
were unaware of our folly. These shells were all dead, and must soon
crumble into lime-dust. Nothing in our journey ave me a more dis-
tinct impression of our distance from home than t is rapturous arrival
on the shores of the Red Sea. Yet there were some serious thoughts
connected with the spot. We were now at that point where many
scholars believe that the Egyptian host overtook the Hebrews. All
progress to the south was barred by the high promontory of Ataka,
which juts into the sea; and if the Egyptians came from the north, the
only escape for the Hebrews was by the way we had come, leading
back only to the Nile. The sea was blue and clear beyond descrip-
tion. Northwards, a narrow strip of shore lay between the sea and
the brown, precipitous rocky mountains of the Egyptian coast. To
the north-east, with the blue gulf between, lay the white line of Suez;
and the Indian steamer was discernible, moored a: few miles lwlnw.
The Arabian hills, soft in their amethyst hues,shut in the “hull; ll) [[19
east. It was an exquisite scene.
Page-302
800 ass-rams Lira.

We proceeded northwards, and encamped on a charming spot—on
the hard sand below the mountains. The clear waters rippled up among
the shelves of rock so as to tempt us irresistibly to bathe, though we
were warned of the danger of sharks. Mrs. Y. and I could not believe
that sharks would come into the shallows of the very shore: and we
bathed accordingly; as I believe every one else did before the day was
over; but we were told at Suez, the next morning, that the inhabitants
never bathe, and that it is only rash strangers, ignorant of the ways of
sharks, that venture to do so. On me, however, the warning was
thrown away. I bathed whenever I could, in both gulfs; and we heard
no more of sharks.

On Sunday, February 28th, we were to reach Suez in time for mom-
ing service: and, as the town was within sight, our own party pushed
on before the others. It was starlight when I came out of the tent;
and while we were at breakfast. the dawn disclosed the sheeny sea and
the ﬁssures of the gloomy mountains. We entered the gate of Suez
between nine and ten o’clock, and were met by the agent of the Penin-
sular and Oriental Company, of which Mr. E. is a Director. Captain
Linguist, the agent. showed us all possible kindness, and rendered us
every service he could think of. Among other things. he compelled us
to accept his whole collection of shells, which he forwarded to Liverpool
for us. To him it was, as he told us, a truly happy day. His ordi-
nary intercourse with Europeans is necessarily very hasty and unsatis-
factory. His ofﬁce is to help the transit of India passengers; and they
are always in a vast hurry, and anxious about their luggage. The talk
with them is about carpet-bags, omnibuses and steamers. Till to-day
he had not for many a month joined in worship, or heard a psalm, or
sat down with his countrymen to quiet conversation, or taken them a.
leisurely walk. He will remember that Sunday,as I am sure we. shall
his kindness.

After a comfortable second breakfast at the hotel, which is kept by
two Englishwomen, we went to an eminence near, where Captain Lin-
guist pointed out to us the well whence only Suez obtains fresh water.
and the ﬁrst Station in the Desert; and. to the north. the end of the
Gulf ;—a stretch of two miles or so of shallow water. A few small
vessels lay here. and along both shores to the southwards. Captain
Linguist has followed out the traces of the ancient canal; and he can
ﬁnd no evidences that it was ever used, or even ﬁnished; and he be-
lieves, therefore, that it can afford no precedent for the proposed new
one. even supposing the state of the waters and shore to be unaltered ;
which nobody, I believe, does suppose.

We wrote letters in the evening, being glad of this last opportunity,
for several weeks, of forwarding news to England.

The next morning, March- lst, Captain L. took us in his boat over
to the Arabian side. The wind was so light that we proceeded at the
rate of less than two miles an hour; and the rest of our company passed
us, and landed two hours before us. The baggage and escort had
crossed the night before. The view of Suez from the water was ﬁner
than I should have supposed possible for such a miserable place: but
Page-303
0

want. or loses—sonata? 'ro SINAI. 801

such an atmosphere adorns everything with the highest charms of color.
The light on the sides of the vessels, on the two minarets, and through
the shallow-waters, was a feast. The coral-shoals below, red and dark,
contrasted with the pale green above the sandy bottom.

It was one o’clock when we landed; and the whole caravan, pro-
visions and all, were gone on, without leaving word where we were to
stop. Our camels and dragoman were awaiting us; but neither food,
cook nor guide. Captain Linguist was delighted to improvise a lun-
cheon for us at his country-house, at the Wells of Moses. He showed
us his garden, which is well irrigated, and as productive as a garden
can be in such a place. He showed us the ancient wells, all shrouded
in bushy palms; and pointed out indications of moisture which en-
courage him to search for a fourth well. Of the three which .we saw,
one is built up with massive and ancient masonry. We were glad that
our kind entertainer had such a resource as even this place. When
weary with the solitude and irksomeness of his position, he comes over
here, and drives away blue devils with a gallop over the sand hills, and
plans of improvementabout his country-house. The luncheon he gave
us was extraordinary enough in its place to deserve mention. Here,
among these dreary sands of the Arabian shore, we had butter from
Ireland, ale from England. wine 'from Spain, ham from Germany,
bread and mutton from Cairo and Suez, cheese from Holland, and
water from Madras! Truly, the dwellers on the Red Sea may well be
advocates of free trade—At half-past ﬁve ms. Captain L. helped us
to mount, and saw us on our way.

CHAPTER III.
JOURNEY TO SINAL

The heat was still excessive, and we were faint and fatigued at this
evening hour, when we should have been sitting down to rest; and our
whole day’s ride was still before us ;—a ride of twenty miles, as it
turned out. Yet I look back with singular pleasure to that ﬁrst Ara-
bian ride. We might go as fast as we liked, being free from the bag-
gage camels; and we were to ride as quietly as we could. So I put
my camel to a trot, and pushed on, to see what I could see in Arabia.
I looked out for Bedoueens on the hills; and many times I thought I
saw them: but it always turned out to be a round stone instead of a
man's head, or some ﬁtful shadow on the slopes. instead of a crouch-
ing Arab. In only one instance do I believe now that I saw a spy
watching from behind a ridge. The large. glorious sun presently went
down clear behind the sands to our right; and just before, the full moon
had come stealing up behind the eastern ridge,—at ﬁrst a pale ghost,
soon to brighten to a golden orb. Then [was struck by the sheen on
the pebbly slopes, almost as bright as on water: and all the wayI was
perplexed by the altered proportions of every object in such a place
Page-304
O

802 smarts use.

and light. When I looked back, it made me almost breathless to see
our little perm—only four riders besides myself, moving in a space
like that; and yet every ridge and stone looked huge till we came up
to it. Two camel drivers were running beside us. When we had
been riding above two hours, one of them began to scream horribly,
and utter shrill calls ; and from under the next shadowy slope an Arab
sprang out, close to me as I rode ahead. It was only one of our escort,
who had been left behind by the Sheikh to look for us. He told Alee
that we had yet some way to go; and a long way, indeed, it seemed.
We told one another when it was eight o‘clock, and when it was nine,
and still we trotted on. seeing nothing through the uncertain and per
plexing light but the same wilds of rock and sand. At last, as I was

using forwards intently, I saw a little ﬂash, apparently on the very
horizon; and then a report followed. The Sheikh had ﬁred a gun for
our guidance. We came to some tufts of tamarisk and other low shrubs
in a water-course; and amidst these were the tents. Our over-dressed
dinner was on table immediately,—that is, soon after ten o'clock; but
Mrs. Y. and I craved tea, which presently revived us.——We now found
that we had been the least distressed of the whole European party.
Our comrades had found, on landing. that the Arab company had gone
on: they had no kind friend at the Wells of Moses to give them Inn:
cheon: they had traveled the whole day without food, and were two
hours and a half longer on the road than we.

The next morning we ﬁrst encountered a. high wind in the desert.
The sand met as in streams. As riding under such a powdering was
more disagreeable than walking, when one could occasionally turn one's
back to the wind, and take breath, I walked about eight miles; and by
that time, the wind had moderated a little.—As I was afterwards riding
ahead, I saw a palm among some sand hills; and my camel quickened
its pace, and needed no persuasion to carry me up to the tree. More
shrubby palms were now seen growing about a chink in the hill-side,
where a little pool of water appeared. It was rather bitter, but drink-
able. Our camels soon reduced it to sandy dregs. They thrust their
heads together eagerly, and pushed hard for a drink; but I observed
that each drank very little. From its bitterness, this well is called by
some people the Marah of Scripture: but it is not enerally supposed
to be the actual place.—On referring to Burckhar t, I ﬁnd, however,
that he believes this to be the Marah of Exodus xv. 23. He says:—
“ We passed the well of Howara, round which a few date trees grow.
Niebuhr traveled the same route, but his guides probably did not lead
him to this well, which lies among hills, about two hundred paces out
of the road. ..... The water of the well of ﬂowers is so bitter that
men cannot drink it; and even camels, if not very thirsty, refuse to
taste it.”-—It was probably diluted by the rains, which here fall and
ﬂow very copiously.) when we tasted the water. e were nearly two
months earlier in the season than Burckhardt; and we saw every-
where traces of recent ﬂoods in the water-courses. Burckhardt con-
tinues:-—

“ From Ayonn Mouse to the well of Howara we had traveled ﬁfteen
Page-305
v

JOURNEY 1o stun. 308

hours and a quarter. Referring to this distance, it appears probable
that this is the desert of three days mentioned in the Scriptures to have
been crossed by the Israelites immediately after their passing the Red
Sea, and at the end of which they arrived at Marsh. In moving with
a whole nation, the march may well be supposed to have occupied
three days: and the bitter well at Marah, which was sweetened by
Moses, corresponds exactly with that of Howara. This is the usual
route to Mount Sinai, and was probably. therefore, that which the
Israelites took on their escape from Egypt."

The next day, (Wednesday. March ad.) I discovered how com-
pletely I had been possessed with the spirit of the desert, by the sort
of feeling with which I greeted a single tree. It was only a poor
thorny-acacia, low and wide-spreading: but its importance to eye and
mind cannot be judged of by those who have never seen a solitary tree
-—the only vegetation within a wide horizon. As I was riding ahead.
I waved my courbash- to those behind, lest anybody should miss the
sight. But in a little while, there was much more to see. [came
upon a clump of palms ;—tltose bushy palms of the desert which are
to my eye so much more beautiful than the tall trimmed palms—-
trimmed for date-bearing—which we see in cultivated regions. and in
all pictures of the East. In the midst of this clump was a well; and
along the deep water-course, for a considerable distance, tamarisks.
acacias and palms were scattered and clamped. As several of the
party dismounted here, I wallted up the water-course, asfar as I dared,
till the sight of some strange Arabs, looking at me from behind the
trees, turned me back. Soon after remounting, we came upon a string

‘ of muddy pools in the water-course, where our camels drank. Every-
where in the desert, we were surprised by the number of water-courses.
and the traces of tenants. We were almost hourly riding over or near
that caked soil, eurlin up in large slices. which tells of a recent ﬂood.

Here, and in far dgrier parts of the desert, we saw dragon-ﬂies in
abundance ;-—a sign, probably. of the rainy season being just over. It
is curious that while no rain falls in the almost parallel and not distant
Nile Valley, there should be abundant rains in this peninsular, usually
in December and January. We saw a good many pigeons. and a few
other birds; and under almost every bush, were the holes of the little
jerboas. «

Our place of encampment this evening was very charming. In a
nook made by mountains meeting at right angles, the vanished torrent
seemed to have spread abroad. rather than to have turned a sharp cor-
ner, while conﬁned within banks. Still, this was in a valley; only
the valley widened a little at this turn. In this nook grew palms in
clumps; and there were little strips of grass bordering the tiny runnels
in the sand; and in the crevices of the precipitous rocks were tufts of
weeds, of a really dazzling green. The scenery the next morning was
transporting. I walked forwards for a few miles—past a prodigious
black rock which rose in grand contrast with the brown mountains;
the sea. of the deepest blue. opening out at the end of the gorge, and
bounded afar by the Egyptian bills, dressed in heavenly hues. We
Page-306
304 names am.

came down upon the sea, and went in and out, between it and the
mountains, many times. The rocks were the most diversiﬁed I ever
saw. I noted them on the spot as being black, green, crimson, lilac,
maroon, yellow, golden and white : and their form was that of a whole
host of cones. Then we entered upon the wilderness of Sin. and the
plain was stony towards the striking entrance of Wadee Shelal. We
had now left Burckhardt's track. He took the more northerly route
to Sinai. by Wadee Sheikh, but returned to Cairo by the one we were
on. We went by the more southerly track, which gave us the ad-
vantage of skirting Mount Serbal.

Some time after lunching under a projecting rock, we undertook the
great pass in Wadee Shelal. It was necessary to dismount—not so
much on account of the steepness of the ascent, which was, in fact, a
long zigzag staircase, as of its narrowness. A baggage-camel ﬁlled
the space completely ; and if one of these should press against aridden
camel, the rider‘s limbs would probably be crushed ainst the rock.
I led my camel up the pass; and when I had crease the ridge, my
position seemed strange enough :——alone, leading my camel in a hollow
way, where the heat was like the mouth of a furnace, and where I
should hardly have supposed myself on our own familiar earth, but for
the birds which ﬂew up in the sunshine, and the dragon-ﬂies that ﬂitted
by. I now seemed to feel, for the ﬁrst time. true pity for the wander-
ing Hebrews. What a place was this for the Hebrew mothers with
their sucking babes! They who had lived on the banks of the never-
failing Nile, and drunk their ﬁll of its sweet waters, must have been
aghast at the aspect of a scene like this, where the eye. wandering as
it will, can see nothing but bright and solemn rocks and a sky without
a cloud. As I thought of their fevered children imploring water. and
their own failing limbs where there was no shade in which to rest, I
could imagine the agony of the Hebrew fathers, and well excuse their
despairing cry, “ Give us water that we may drink! Wherefore is
this that thou hast brought us up out of the land of Egypt. to kill us
and our children and our cattle with thirst? . . . Wherefore have
ye made us to come up out of Egypt, to bring us unto this evil place i It
is no place of seed, or of ﬁgs. or of vines, or of pomegranates: neither
is there any water to drink." They were here in the early days of
their wandering, when the freshness of the Nile Valley was vivid in
their remembrance; and it was later in the year than when we tra-
veled this way. To them, the sun was more scorching than to us;
and the caked soil of the water-courses had become dry dust; and, as
Burckhardt found at a yet earlier season, the scanty foliage of the thorny-
acacia was all so dead and crisped with the heat as to ignite with a
spark. The faith of the meditative and instructed Moses must have
been strong to hear him up in such a scene: and what must have been
the clamor and despair of the slavish multitude, whose hope and con-
rage had been extinguished by that bondage which yet left their do-
mestic aﬂ'ections in all their strength! At every step. we found the
Scri tural im ery rising up before our minds—the imagery of over-
aha owing robin, sheltering wings, water-brooks, and rain ﬁlling the
Page-307
means To mm. 305

pools :—even we, with all our comforts and our well-ﬁlled water-skins.
relieved our mental oppression with Imagery like this. But the poor
Hebrews had no Scriptures, no faith, no promises that they couldp yet
receive. To them, it was all evil and no hope Well might Moses
himself here sink below the level of his purposes, and cry “ What
shall I do unto this people ? they be almost ready to stone me.” When
my eye caught at the tufts of grass peeping from under the stones, and
a green bush here and there in the ravines, I remembered that they
would be gone before the summer. and that there were none when the
Hebrews passed by.

It was at the end of one of these parched wadees that we encamped
that night,—encompassed with precipitous rocks. The red granite
mountains we were now in the midst of, are massive and awful beyond
any other mountains I ever saw. The sunset lights, and the morrow ’s
dawn dressed them in splendor. but scarcely relieved their gloom. —-
This had been a remarkable day; but the morrow was yet more so.

I was out at dawn on the morning of the 5th. and by sunrise I was
walking forwards alone, watching the sun-ﬂoods which streamed down
'between the fantastic peaks of the mountains. Enormous blocks of red
granite lay beside the tracks; and from their crevices the birds ﬂew up

‘into the lig ht. I had been warned not to walk far; and I soon learned
why. —Presently after mounting, I was surprised to see, on the left
hand face of rock, two tablets smoothed for inscriptions. On one, the
inscription had been eﬂ'aced: the other was covered with Egyptian
hieroglyphics.—Bishara came up, and pointed to a wadee before us
which diverged from the main route,—Wadee Magara,—and here he
evidently wanted us to go. We turned In there. and I willj ust men-
tion. for the guidance of any future traVeler, where the Egyptian relics
are to be looked for. Passing into Wadee Magara from Wadee Gen-
nee, a patch of green shrubs soon appears on the right; and further on,
a single thorny-acacia is seen on the same side. Here the traveler
must dismount, and climb the steep and difﬁcult mountain side imme-
diately opposite the tree. If he sets out in the an gle. he can hardly
miss his object.—-On the left hand slope are two tablets of hierogly.

phics, besides some attempts at excavation which have been discontin-
ued. On the right hand slope of the recess are four more; and further
round on the same side, still two more, under the shelter of a projecting
ledge :—one might say, in a little cave. Of these two, one is ﬁnished;
the other only just begun. What can these inscriptions mam—high
up such a wild, retired mountain, and unﬁnished?

Niebuhr discovered, and after him Laborde and other travelers visited,
a group of Egyptian mortuary stones (as Is supposed) near Naszeb. on
the more northern road which Burckhardt took , and an account of them
is given by Laborde.’ Of this group Burckhardt say sf—“ It seems
to be a custom prevalent with the Arabs in every part of the desert. to
have regular burial-grounds, whither they carry their dead, sometimes

° Journey through Arabia Petr-Ira, &c., p. 80 (English translation).
1’ Travels in Syria and the Holy Land, p. 482.

20
Page-308
806 nmax am.

from the distance of several days’ journey. The burying-ground seen
by Niebuhr near N such, which, as I have already mentioned, I passed
without visiting, . . . . appears to have been an ancient t‘emc.h
tery of the same kind. formed at a time when hieroglyphical characters
were in use among all the nations under Egyptian inﬂuence. As there
are no countries where ancient manners are so permanent as in the
desert, it is probable that the samevcustoms of sepulture then prevailed
which still exist; and that the burial-ground described by Niebuhr by
no means proves the former existence of‘ a city.”

I wish some one who can read the Egyptian hieroglyphics would go
and examine into this matter. Laborde mentions tablets slightly,—the
tablets which we saw, and sup oses that some attempts to ﬁnd copper
may have been made here, w ich might attract Egyptian workmen.
If such works were ever begun here, they must have been immediately
relinquished.

We retraced our steps to the entrance of the wadee, and then, turn-
ing to the left, entered upon Wadee Mokatteb,—the Written Valley.
I was so busy thinking over what we had just seen, that I forgot to ask
the name of this new wadee, or to take heed to what was about me.
when a rock turning off to the left caught my eye, and roused me at
once. It was covered with inscriptions, from base to summitg—coveb
ed as thick as the letters would stand; not only on the smooth‘parts of
the stone, but wherever the characters could be put. I was the last of
the troop; and they had certainly all passed by without noticing this
rock. Ishouted, and waved my courbash to bring them back; they
turned, but did not come. They all drew to the side of the wadee;
and I presently found that they too had discovered wonderful rocks.
For six miles or so now, we passed between rocks inscribed all over
with characters which nobody can read.—They are irregularly carved;
—some larger. some smaller, from (I think) nearly a foot high to half
an inch. Those of us who had good sight perceived that there were
inscriptions much higher up than we had been given to understand by
travelers. On many a smooth natural tablet, high up on the face of the
mountain, could I see mysterious lines.-like those below, when the
sunlight or shadow fell favorably: but the unbroken mass of inscrip-

.'tions was between the base and a height of twenty feet—Almost every
large stone which lay in the valley also bore similar records. Some
were rather lightly traced,-—Iittle more than scratched,—on the stone:
but many were deep cut.

This character was unknown at the time when Justinian built the
Convent of Mount Sinai; and it cannot yet be read. At ﬁrst, the dis-
coverers had a natural hope that these gravings on the rock might
prove to be the work of the Hebrews: but that idea has long been given
up. From very early ages, the mountains we were now approaching
had been sacred places and objects of pilgrimage; and after the Chris-
tian Era, many thousands of Christians lived in this peninsular,—some
in monasteries. and very many as anchorites, scattered through the
valleys and among the rocks about Serbal and Sinai. For some hun-
dreds of years, pilgrims trooped hitherwards; and the learned now
Page-309
Joann“ 'ro stun. ‘ 801

suppose the inscriptions in Wadee Mokatteb and other places to record
the names and blessings of pilgrims. If so, it is as desirable as ever
»to ﬁnd a key 'to this character, that we may learn what unknown peo-
:ple,-—-or people who wrote in an unknown eharacter.—shared. in for-
mer days, the Jewish and Christian faith.—In the transactions of the
Royal Society, a large number (I think 187) of these inscriptions are
published, among which are nine Greek and one Latin; but these do
not help us to assign the rest to their origin. Dr. Lepsius conjec-
tures these to be the work of Shepherds: but one does not see why,
in that case, they should be found only in the way to sacred localities;
-—for instance,‘as far as Rephidim and El Erbayn at the foot of Horeb,
and no higher up the Wadee el Ledja.

Among these legends, and in many another spot hereabouts, are
drawings on the rock which may well be the work of Bedoueen goat-
herds. They are scratches. rather than carvings, of camels. goats and
gazelles;——hugely-laden, ,crooked camels,—tumble-down goats, and
most clumsy or scraggy gazelles. They are amusing, but not at all
mysterious;

In the afternoon, we found the tufts of desert shrubs becoming thicker
and larger; the tamarisks expanded into trees. and in an angle of the
valley, unpruned palms showed themselves before us. Bishara and the
dragomen began to look about for a resting-place; and they told us we
were entering Wadee Feiran. As we turned that angle, we came upon
inclosures;—-the ﬁrst we had seen since leaving the Wells of Moses.
Thick palm groves now rose before us; and it was pleasant to ride in
among them. past walls and little ﬂocks of goats tended by Arabs, over
patches of damp soil, and under the declivities of Mount Serbal. Ser-
bal rose grandly over all : and it let down little streamlets, along
whose margin fresh grass ran in lines beside the tracks.—In one spot,
there was seen a ﬁne sweep of the mountain ridge, where it is natural
for those who believe this to have been the mountain of the Law, to
see in vision the gathering of the clouds and the ﬂashing of the
lightnings. But there is no plain below from which the Hebrew mul-
titude could have beheld this; nor is there anywhere round the moun-
tain a space which could aﬂ'ord the spectacle to any large number of
people.—-l shall not enter upon the controversy about the spot of the
giving of the Law. I am convinced that there is no evidence which
can decide the matter; and that there never can be, because the pro-
mises can never be ﬁxed. While everybody believu the general
fact of the leading of the Hebrews to this region, in order to prepare
them for their future nationality. no one can say how much of the
details is strictly historical, and how much legendary. The numbers
and dates of the narrative are regarded by all the learned, I believe. as
untenable; as given. after the Hebrew manner. in the large, and in
established terms, understood by Hebrew hearers, but altogether mis-
leading to those who would take them as literally as if they had been
assigned after. instead of before. the origin of true history. Learud
men, who are up to the mark of historical science in our day. know

' that the Hebrews and their followers could not have amounted to two
Page-310
808 IASTIRN un.

millions of people when they left Egypt. and that the “ forty years"
and “forty days” assigned to a variety of transactions. is not to be taken
literally, nor was ever meant to be so: and they are aware that it is in
vain to ﬁx upon any particular mountain peak as that from which the
Law was given.

It is quite another question which was the sacred mountain in the
belief of early times. In regard to this there is abundance of evidence.
It is clear that Serbal and Sinai were both sacred mountains, and
objects of pilgrimage from a very early age; The traveler cannot but
see this on the spot: and if he is further disposed to occupy himself
with the speculation which of the mountains of the region was in the
mind of the writers of Exodus, he will do as travelers have hitherto
done,—ﬁx upon the peak which in his view answers the most nearly
to the points of the narrative. Of the few travelers who have been
there, the greater number have pointed out some fresh spot which struck
their fancy, in the absence of all evidence as to which the writers had
in view.—If I were to do this, it would not be Serbal that [should
ﬁx upon; because there is, as I said. no space within view of its peaks
and ridge whence any large number could ﬁx their gaze on any one
suitable point of the mountain. Yet it is clear that, for some reason or
other, Serbal was largely resorted to by devotees and pilgrims. and
probably through many ages ;—as was also Shah—Many inscriptions
are found on the rocks near the summit of Serbal; and there is a road
up to its peak. In Wadee Feiran the rocks are dotted with caves.—
the abodes and tombs of ancient anchorites and devotees. What traces
of sanctity remain about Sinai, we shall presently see.

We wandered on in the valley for about a mile beyond the spot I
mentioned as aﬂ'ording a ﬁne view of the pinnacles of Serbal; and
then we took up our rest in a truly delicious nook. Serbal was almost
overhead, and other mountains enclosed us round. On the slope be-
hind us were the remains of the ancient town known to have existed
here; and at its base ran a little streamlet in a mossy channel, over-
hung with tamarisks and palms. Caves yawned in all the precipices
round; and soon. when the large moon rose, the whole was like a rich
dream—except for the voices and laughter of a party of our Arabs
round a great ﬁre, which gleamed upon the high screen of tamarisks
which sheltered them from the night breeze.

In the morning I was out in time to see some of the stars go down
behind the mountain peaks, and others fade in the dawn. It was so
warm here that I put oﬂ' my cloak while at breakfast in the open air
before sunrise. B six o'clock I was walking forwards, wishing to
examine some of t e caves. Those to whichl climbed were mere
cells, rude and unshapen; just answering to one’s childish notions of
an anchorite's call. Some had as many as four chambers, I was told;
but none that I visited had more than two. Iobaerved a seat appa-
rently cut into the rock on the margin of the runnel. where it spreads
into a brook; and I wondered who planted it there; for it was too con-
venient and pleasant to have been done with the good-wﬂl of ancho—
ritsa.—Then I walked through palm-groves, and in and out among
Page-311
JOMIY 'ro strut. 309

inclosures, delighting my eyes with the asphodel which blossomed
richly in the crevices of the rocks ;—somstimes within reach, so that
I had actually bouquets to present to my friends when they overtook
me. There is nothing like the words written down at the time; so
here are those of my journal of that date. “ Paths through the
tamarisks; and Arab tents. and black goats and swathed goat-herds;
and the ﬁrst sunlight dropping in through the mountain claim—golden
beyond description, and making golden the waving palm tops in the
illumined nook I looked down upon. 0n turning round,I saw our
loaded camels coming winding through the tall stems behind me, and
their drivers among the trees. How must Feiran (if then like what
it is now) have appeared to the Israelites after their wandering in the
arid places of the Desert! But it is not fertile, 'as some authors say,
who mean by that that it is cultivated. I saw nothing grown by hus-
bandry; and the soil is sandy as elsewhere. Tender grass and creases
spring in the brook; and there are tufts of herbage and weeds in the
rock-clefts: but the palms are unpruned. and all is wild. however
sweet.—As we pursued the wadee. the vegetation subsided into the
usual Desert tufts; and the way was hot and dry. Our last views of
Mount Serbal were very ﬁne as it towered—all in lilac hues and blue
shadows.——above the nearer mountains behind us. Before us were
rising all the morning. the peaks of the Sinai nucleus.”

It was this which made that Saturday, the 6th of March, a remarka-
ble day to us. On this day, we traveled from Wadee Feiran to Mount
Sinai. and at night we rested in the convent.

It must be understood that the whole cluster of mountains before us
is called Sinai ;——the whole region which arises above the plain. At
a considerable elevation, at wide plain spreads, out of which branch
many wadees. From this plain springs a cluster of rocky mountains.
at whose base lies the conventof Mount Sinai.—-—Further,—this cluster.
as seen from the plain. is called at this day (however it might be for-
merly) Horeb: and when the heights of Horeb are attained, other
mountains or peaks are seen to spring, which are invisible from below.
The two principal peaks are those of Moses or Sinai Proper. and
Saint Catherine. Thus. there are two great ascents to'reach the
base of Sinai Proper: and the ﬁrst of these we accomplished this
morning. As my journal says—“ We followed wadees, crossed
low ridges. dipped down into a deep. narrow, tufted valley. drank
water from our skins, crossed and emerged. and entered upon the
deﬁle which leads to the plain of Sinai. What a rugged and steep
ascent it is.—winding always,but never with any terriﬁc depth below !
I kept my seat till we reached our lunching—place, in the shadow of
rocks. whence we saw the rear of our caravan creeping over the levels
below. Then [walked some way. but was soon glad to mount my
camel. which seemed well at home in this chaos. The coloring of
the rocks was as vivid and striking as at any former point of our journey ;
and the myrtle green of the shale was relieving to the eye.-—We came
out at last upon the plain where one would like to think the Hebrews
were encamped; a level expanse of sand, tufted with Desert plants;
Page-312
820‘ IAD'I'IRI as".

and out of it springs, directly before us, the cluster of peaks which is
now called' Horeb. On this plain were Arabs and goats; and a- long
shadow was ﬂung across it. below Horeb, from the western mountain.
—-Soon, as we speeded over the plain, we came in sight of the convent,
lying beautifully in the deep shadow of Horeb, aslant up the western
slope,—aud with tall cypresses and some greener trees springing from
within its fortress-like walls. It was very beautiful from this distance,
—snug in its extremely narrow valley.—We saw to the right, at the
base of the mountain, the second garden of the convent, with cypresses
-and green foliage like the omen—Next. we passed the Arab cemetery,
a crowd of little rude stones.-—Then we rode over shelves of rock up
to the convent. and past its inclosure walls. which are of various dates
and materials, but chieﬂy of large crude brick, with occasional heavy
blocks of storm—Some travelers’ tents were under the walls. and
groups of Arab boys were loitering about. The windlass at the place
of entrance was at work, and two monks looked down upon us from
their terrace on the walls.—Mr. Y. went up by the Windlass, after his
letter, to present his respects to the Prior. We looked upon his
swinging ascent with some wonder what we should do, if the other
entrance of which we had heard should be closed against strangers
now. But a monk soon invited us within a well-secured postern, and
lighted us with his lantern through a dark passage, and then led us
through the green and blossomy and terraced garden. and up from one
stair-case and platform to another, till we arrived at the strangers’
corridor, whence we could overlook much of the curious complication

of buildings and spaces which constitute the interior of the convent of
Mount Sinai.”

 

CHAPTER IV.

OONVENT 0F MOUNT Sl'NAI.-—ASCENT 0F DJEBEL MOUSA.-—ASCENT
0F HOREB.

Tna ﬁrst thing known of the settlement of this place and neighbor-
hood is that the Empress Helena, in the fourth century, built a small
church over the spot where the Burning Bush grew. Who there was
to tell the Empress where the Bush grew, is not known; nor how the
tradition had been preserved for nearly two thousand years. Several
small convents were built in the peninsula, after Helena’s church be-
gan to attract devotees; but the Bedoueens were so dangerous and
troublesome that the Christians of the region petitioned Justinian to
buildthem a fortiﬁed convent. He sent workmen. Burckhardt tells us.‘
from Constantinople and Egypt. with orders to build an impregnable
monastery on the top of Djebel Mousa.—that peak bein in his day
supposed to be the one from which the Law was given, T ere being no
water at that height, the workmen built the convent at the foot of Horeb,

' Travels in Syria and the Holy IAnd, p. 545.
Page-313
comm- or new emu. an

inclesing within its walls the wellat which it is said Moses was the ﬁrst
todrink. The monks believe that Justinian gave the whole of the penin-
sula to their establishment; and that so many sacred‘buildin and
hermitages arose in con uence. that six or seven thousand mo s and
hermits were inhabiting t e region at the time of the Mohammedan
con nest.

he worship is now solely that of the Greek church: but there
was a time when many forms of rel' ion were on an equality here.
Beside the great Greek church,stoodt eMoeque. whence the Muezzin
might, within the walls of this Christian convent, call the Faithful to
prayer. The Latins.Armeniaas and Syrians had chapels also: but
the Greek is the only one now in use. There were about thirty monks
when we were there, some of whom appeared to have suffered from
the severity of their rule. They have an establishment at Cairo, which
is a resource to them against much want and danger which they must
otherwise suﬂ‘er under. Their corn comes from Cairo; most of the
soil for their several gardens comes thence on the backs of camels.
These gardens are of great importance to them,—not only because
they depend on them for their supply of vegetables, while never touch-
ing animal food. and because they propitiate the Bedoueens with fruit.
but because their reputation largely depends on the great quantity of
medicinal and sacred herbs which they send into the world every sea-
son. The gardens are carefully cultivated,terraced,and well irrigated.
When we were there, the hlossomy almonds and peaches,and the vivid
green of the herb beds, among the tall dark cypresses and spreading
olives, were a feast to the e e.

Before we went. we calledv this the Convent of St. Catherine, as every-
body does. We had read of it under that name. and seen that name
under every print of the place that had come before our eyes. Our
surprise was therefore great when a monk who had taken the vows
twenty years before, declared that he did not know it b that name-
Being asked whether the convent had nothing to do with t. Catherine,
he replied. only by the bones of a hermitess, named Catherine, having
been found on the mountain above the convent which bears her name.
Perplexed by this. I was yet more surprised when I observed a little
Catherine-wheel rudely carved over one of the posterns: and a picture
of the saint, leaning on her wheel, in the library, with her name at
length. In the chapel also her relics lie in state—those bones which
were found on the mountain-top, and were brought hither by the monks
a few years after the establishment of the convent. The monk, how-
ever. stuck to his declaration that the convent had no connection with
St. Catherine: and we suspected there was some misunderstanding
between him and the interpreter,-—-our dragoman. Since my return.
however.l have found the solution of our difﬁculty in Burckhardt,‘
who seems to elucidate everything he touches. He says :-—“ M. Seet-
zen has fallen into a mistake in calling the convent by the name of St.
Catherine. It is dedicated to the Transﬁguration. or, as the Greeks

- Travels in Syria and the Holy Land. p. 553.
Page-314
812 smart am.

call it, the Metamorphosis, and not to St. Catherine, whose relics only
are preserved here." We asked the monk what,accordin to him.the
name of the convent was; and he replied the Convent of ount Sinai,
—saying nothing about the Transﬁguration.

There is a large Mosaic representation of the Transﬁguration in the
dome of a chapel; a curious specimen of art to be seen in such a place.
But the pride of the brethren is in the chapel of the Burning Bush.
We were desired to enter it barefoot; but as I had laced boots on, I
ventured to disobey, and passed without remark. Our monk-guide
reverently bent under the altar, and removed a silver plate which covers
the spot where the Bush grew. The Bush itself, however, ﬂourishes
elsewhere, in one of the courts,—a shrub of the Ribes kind, I think,
which was sproutin vigorously. The monk,who plucked some twigs
for those who woul accept them, said with enthusiasm that it had
never drooped; “ and now,” he continued, “ that it has ﬂourished for
three thousand years, I am sure it will never die.” The library con-
tains a large number of Greek books of monkish devotion, and a few
Arabic manuscripts. of which Burckhardt gives some account. I
picked up there an odd volume of the “Spectator," left, no doubt, by
some traveler. Its title-page and fly-leaf are scribbled over with pious
curses by the Rev. Joseph Wolﬂ', who begins his vituperation with
“ He who left this book in this place merits to be beaten with forty
stripes save one,” &c. &c.

The Monks sell Manna to strangers, in little round boxes, wherein
it coagulates to a mass, but melts when exposed to the sun. This sub-
stance exudes from the tamarisk in summer, and is most plentiful after
the most copious rains. It drops upon the ground from the twigs of
the tamarisk. which grows abundantly in the neighboring wadees.
The manna is picked up before sunrise, as it melts afterwards. The
Arabs boil and strain it, and keep it in skins, to serve instead of honey:
and very nourishing aliment it is said to be, if used sparingly. Its ap~
pearance is not very tempting.

The monks make palm brandy in abundance, and drink it too. The
gale-faced and shrunken guide who took us up the mountain. could not

induced to eat cold fowl: it would be a sin to touch animal food ; but
he took a brave pull at the brandy bottle. Such are the differences of
morals among Christians!

Ithink the unfavorable position of the convent must be partly an-
swerable for the pale faces of most of its inhabitants; though poor diet
and severe vigils, and apprehensions from the Bedoueens have, no
doubt, much to do with it. Mrs. Y. and [had the best room in the
convent,—spacious. clean, and with plenty of windows ; butI could not
sleep; and the sense of oppression, while within the walls. was remark-
able. This is not to be wondered at, as a free circulation of air is im-
possible. The valley is so narrow as to be ﬁlled up, within twenty
feet or so, by the building, which slopes up the mountain backwards;
and the south end is closed in, at a short distance, by a precipitous bar-
rier. It is open only to the north; and how the place can be endured
in summer, I cannot conceive. The elevation of the whole region, it
Page-315
converts or loom emu. 313

is true, is such that the season is more backward than that of Cairo by
two months : but this elevation can avail little to an abode placed in an
abyss of bare rocks. Iwas struck with this the ﬁrst night, when I
went out into our corridor, after ten o‘clock, to see the moon come up
between two peaks,—her light being already bright on the western
summits. Still and sweet as was the scene,—the air being hazy with
moonlight in this rocky basin, there was something oppressive in the
nearness of the recipices. and [could not but wonder what state of
nerve one would in during summer, and in seasons of storm. The
lightningmust ﬁll this space like a ﬂood; and the thunder must die
hard among the echoes of these steep barriers. As for the thunder,
Burckhardt heard a curious tale here. He says :"—“ Several Be-
doueens had acquainted me that a thundering noise, like repeated
charges of heavy artillery, is heard at times in these mountains; and
they all aﬂirmed that it came from 0m Shomar. The monks cor-
roborated the story, and even positively asserted that they had heard
the sound about mid-day, ﬁve years ago,describing it in the same man-
ner as the Bedoueens. The same noise had been heard in more re-
mote times, and the Ikonomos, who had lived here forty years, told me
that he remembered to have heard the noise at four or ﬁve separate
periods. I inquired whether any shock of an earthquake had ever
been felt on such occasions.but was answered in the negative. Wish-
ing to ascertain the truth, I prepared to visit the mountain of 0m Sho-
mar."—He did so, and “ could nowhere ﬁnd the slightest traces of a
volcano."

What must the reverberating thunder have been among these preci-
pices to the Hebrews, who had scarcely ever seen a cloud in the sky !

If the monks looked pale-faced to us, we must have presented an ex-
traordinary spectacle to them—with our faces.—some red. some brown,
and our parched and cracked lips. As we looked round upon one
another, we saw complexions of all hues between a boiled lobster and
a mahogany table. It is better so than to annoy one’s self with the
weight of an umbrella and the stiﬂing ofa veil. [threw aside my veil
after one or two trials. Its shifting threads are painful to the e es
amidst the glare of the Desert. I was well satisﬁed with my gog es,
—not of glass. which is heating. and might be broken,-—but of b ck
woven wire, which admits the air freely, and cannot get spoiled. As
for the rest, we wore broad-brimmed hats, and. for the most part, took
no further pains, trusting that time would make us look like ourselves

In.
8gl‘I‘he monks have lately built a new set of guest chambers. in which
the greater part of our company were lodged. These rooms are made
as comfortable as possible, under the circumstances: and there we re-
mained from Saturday afternoon till Wednesday morning. We were
waited upon, of course, by our own people; and served, for the most
part, with our own utensils and stares ; while a monk was at our call,
to give us guidance and information. When the time came for settling-

' Travels in Syria and the Holy Land, p. 586.
Page-316
814 smart urn.

accounts,the gentlemen concerned with the Prior thought him rapacions,
—-as former priors have been considered by former travelers; and this,
after every regard being paid to his isolated position. and the circum-
stances of his establishment. Within the convent, everything is done
by the monks themselves, who are educated to their respective ofﬁces.
A tribe of Arabs are the outdoor servants or serfs of the establishment.
—being employed to fetch and carry. bring wood and prepare charcoal,
keep the sheep and goats, and spin the wool, 63c. : in return for which
oﬁces, they are fed according to their need.

0n the-Sunday morning, some of the gentlemen went to early mass,
—at sin—and thought the ceremonial and appurtenances very superb.
Our company were free to have their own service in the morning: and
we made a quiet day of it, merely going out in the afternoon for a walk
in the neighborin wadees. Some of as studied the outside of the con-
vent nnd its gar en, and went to see the ravine by which we were to
ascend the next day to Sinai Proper, or Djebel Mouse. It did not look
very formidable; and we were happy to observe that we should have
shade on our side of the mountain for nearly the whole time.

By the same hour the next day,I was convinced that, of the many
mountains I have climbed, Sinai is the easiest of ascent. I found
really no fatigue at all in it. Much of our ease was, no doubt, owing
to the deep shade in which our path lay: but something also to the
steps which are still available for the greater part of the way. Ac—
cording to tradition, and to all appearance, there was formerly one long
staircase from the base of Horeb to the pinnacle of Djebel Mensa; the
number of steps being variously reported as from fourteen to ﬁfty thou-
sand. It is the greatest possible help, in ascending a mountain, to be
saved all uncertainty of footing. With this advantage, shade, water,
and plenty of time, we found the expedition as easy as it was interest-

in .

gWithin half an hour we arrived at the well-known spring of ice-cold
water, which lay dark in its pool within the rock, fringed with the deli-
cate fern dropping out of every crevice. The next striking object was
the arch spanning the road which marks this as a sacred journey. The
effect is strange, of a portal erected in a ravine,—a sort of leave of access
to the mountain top: and the distant views now opening are exceed-
ingly impressive when seen through the arch. Soon after, the uide
cried out “Half way," and the least able of us felt that we shou d all
reach the summit. Next, we arrived at the plain at the top of Horeb;
the plain from which spring the peaks of Moses and of St. Catherine,
and some others. In the midst stands, in mournful solitude, a cypress,
planted by the monks a hundred years ago: and near it, the poor little
chapel of St. Elias. We had already passed the small chapel of Santa
Maria. In this plain it was, according to the Karin, that Moses com-
municated with God; and we ﬁnd many Arabic inscriptions here cut
on the stones by Mohammedan devotees. In their belief, this is the top
of Horeb, and the holiest place. They have a mosque, however, on
the summit of Djebel Mousa, a few paces from the Christian church
which occupies the highest pinnacle.
Page-317
use or none. 315

We were now about three quarters of an hour from the-convent; and
there was another half hour’s climbing before us. The ascent here
became steeper; but it was still easy. Near the summit we saw wider
and wilder views than before, through a second arch. At the top, we
followed the advice of our guide in restia and refreshing ourselves in'
the shade of the convent, before lookin a at us in the laring sun. I
thought I had never seen such sunlig t, as it streams into the dark
vaulted chamber, through and over the ﬁne group of Arab boys who
ﬁlled up the doorway.

What a view it was when we came out! Burckhardt missed it,
through the provoking accident of a chick fog. As for us, we saw
everything radiantly that came within the capacity of the eye'at all.
For a vast distance round, it was one billowy expanse of brown sum-
mits, arid beyond description, and unrelieved' by any variety of color.
or by any glimpse of valley or plain. This summit is certainly not
visible from any plain: and. in regard to that consideration, it is not
superior in its claims to Serbal. Serbal rose ﬁnely above a nearer
ridge. Some of us thought we could discern the sea on that side; but
we remained uncertain about it. The other sea line, the Gulf of Akaba,
was plain enough, a line of gray between two of sand. To the north,
there was the relief of a white ridge above the desolate brown ;-—hills
in the El Tiheh region. The scene was altogether strange and deso-
late ;—most like one's notion of an antecedent age of our lobe.—-a time
before man was created, when deep calling to deep. an thunders re-
sponding to thunders. and monsters slow moving in wildernesses, had
the world all to themselves. I am thankful to have seen it; for, who-
ther it be one of the historical holy places or not, its singular wildness
renders it quite sacred enough.

We found the descent perfectly easy, and had the advantage of a cool
breeze, in addition to the shade. We returned quite untired, and last
no time in making our arrangements for an ascent of Horeb, the next

da .

In the morning, it appeared that only six of our fourteen would an-
dertake the more laborious work of to-day. Of these six, I was one.—
The expedition proved so much more interesting than even thatof yes-
terday, that I was concerned for those who stayed behind.

We left the convent at seven,—after breakfasty—skirting the base of
Horeb till we came to one of the principal shows of the place,-——the
stone in which Aaron moulded the head of the golden calf. Burck-
hardt speaks of it as “the head of the golden calf, transmuted into
stone." and continuesz‘ “ it is somewhat singular that both the monks
and the Bedoueens call it the cow’s head (Res el Baker), and not the
* oalf’a, confounding it perhaps with the ‘ red heifer’ of which the Old
Testament and the Kurin speak. It is a stone half buried in the
ground, and bears some resemblance to the forehead of a cow. Some
travelers have explained this stone to be the mould in which Aaron cast
the calf, though it is not hollow but projecting: the Arabs and monks.

f

' Travels in Syria and the Holy Land, p. 583.
Page-318
816 its-nan am.

however, gravely assured me that it was ‘ the cow's’ head itself.”-—I do
not know what to make of this, unless we suppose Burckhardt’s guide
to have shown him a different stone from the one pointed out to us,
which was hollow ;—the hollow being something of the form of a cow’s
head, and being certainly represented to us as the mould in which the
head of the calf was cast.——As to its being called “the cow" by the
monks and Arabs, it does not much matter. The Hebrews had seen as
much of the cow of Athor as of the bull Apis in Egypt; and tradition
might nearly as well assign the one object as the other. The Old Tes-
tament, however, declares it to have been a young bull; and when Aaron
resented it to the people as the god that brought them out of Egypt,
e was more likel to have had the ad than the goddess in his mind.
We next passedv the ﬁne‘ garden longing to the convent which I
mentioned as being on our right when we ﬁrst arrived. We did not
enter it, but enjoyed in passing the sight of its blossoming fruit-trees.
From this time, we saw many inscriptions on the rocks, as we passed
up through .the narrow wadee called El Ledja. The character is of the
same unreadable kind as in Wadee Mokatteb and at Mount Serbal,and
Kiowa that scribes of the class that went there had been here also.
hat their object was,—\vhether the mountain, or, as many have sup-
posed. merely the rock which Moses struck for water, no one can con-
ﬁdently say. To me it seems improbable that so many should come
for the sake of Rephidim merely, in so very early an age.—it must be
so clear to even the blindest devotees that this could be no place for
striking the rock for water.—natural springs abounding in the whole
district. I should be disposed to consider the choice of this stone for a
relic of the miracle the device of a comparatively modern monkish age.
This rock was about twice the height of the tallest of our party; nearly
twelve feet. There are marks on it as of a rush of water. To leave
such marks, however, the water must have rushed for some hundreds
of years; and Burckhardt’s opinion is that the chisel was the more pro-
bable instrument. Still proceeding along El Ledja. we passed three
gardens and a chaos of boulders, and at last sat down in the pleasant
olive‘ grove belonging to the small convent of El-Erbayn, “ the Forty,”
so named from the .forty martyrs who perished here ;—tnonks or an-
chorites slaughtered by the Bedoueens. There are no clear particulars
told on the spot; but Dr. Robinson points out" that these forty martyrs
were probably the thirty-eight killed, and two mortally wounded, of the
hermits who were attacked y the Saracens in the fourth century, when
the holy Superior Doulas retired, with a few companions, into a tower
on the mountain. The story is that when the Saracens endeavored to
attack the tower, the whole of the summit of the mountain became
ﬁery; on seeing which, the enemy ﬂed, leaving the monks free to
come down and bury their dead.
We were invited into this convent by our servants; and we entered
it through a little orchard of blossoming trees. Mats were spread for
us in the gallery; and there we were served with coffee, palm brandy.

' Biblical Researches, &c., l. 182.
Page-319
nearer or noun. 317

and dates preserved in oil—which some of the party found highly oﬂ'en-
sive, and others rather liked. This convent and garden are in the
charge of the Arab dependents of the Christians; and a few of , the
monks occasionally live here. About ten o’clock, we began to climb
the mountain. As we were on the opposite side from that which we
ascended yesterday. we were, of course. in the sunshine; and blazing
and broiling sunshine it was, till we reached the highest ravine. Here
was no path, nor any steps like those which had so aided us on the
other side of the mountain. It was rough and toilsome climbing till
we reached the little plain on which grows the solitary cypress. Then,
after descending a little, we ascended a ravine which few travelers have.
I believe. attempted, and where women had probabl never before set
foot. Dr. Robinson speaks strongly' of the diﬂicu ty and dan'er of
the latter part of the ascent, which appears to have been more ormi-
dable to him than to us. When we reached our point, we thought no
more of our fatigues. nor of our doubts how to get down again. There.
besides all, or nearly all, that we saw yesterday, we beheld, stretched
below us, the wide plain and its tributary wadees—a space amply suf-
ﬁcient for the encampment of the Hebrews, be their numbers what they
might. “ The whole plain." says Dr. Robinson,‘l “ lay spread out be-
neath our feet. with the adjacent wadees and mountains r while Wadee
esh-Sheikh on the right. and the recess on the left, both connected with,
and openin broadly rom, epRahah (the plain) presented an area which
serves near y to double that of the plain. Our conviction was strength-
ened, that here, or on some one of the adjacent cliﬂ's. was the spot where
the Lord 'descended in ﬁre’ and proclaimed the Law. Here lay the
plain where. the whole congre tion might be assembled; here was the
mount that could be approac ed and touched, if not forbidden; and
here the mountain brow, where alone the lightnings and the thick cloud
Would be visible, and the thunders and the voice of the trump be heard,
whenthe Lord ‘ came down in the sight of all the people upon Mount
Sinai.’ " , -

We chose for our resting-place the shadow of a rock where we sat
long. looking abroad upon a scene which fulﬁlled all our expectations
and desires. The spreading plain and its tributaries made the view a
far ﬁner one than that from. Djebel Mousa. Again Serbal stood out
grandly, towering above all the other mountains; and again the eastern
Arabian hills were ex uisitely beautiful. Immediatel below us was a
fearful precipice whic it was scarcely 'poaible to loo down steadily.
It was only by being unable to discover the sea that we were aware of
bein at a lower point than yesterday. One alone of our party ven-
ture up the small remaining distance; and he went without shoes,
and supported by two Ambs.

After relating his process of measurement of the plain at the foot of
Sinai, Dr. Robinson says :1#‘ We may, therefore, fairly estimate the
whole plain at two geological miles long, and ranging in breadth from

' Biblical Researches, doc, I. 157. 1’ Ibid. [58. I Ibid. 141.
Page-320
318 ass-run Lira.

ona-third to two-thirds of a mile; or as equivalent to a surface of at
least one square mile. This space is nearly doubled by the recess so
«often mentioned on the west, and by the broad and level area of Wadee
Shaikh on the east, which issues at right angles to the plain, and is
equally, in view of the front and summit of the present Horeb. The
examination of this afternoou‘cbnvinced us that here was space enough
to satisfy all the requisitions of the Scriptural narrative. so far as it re-
lates tothe assembling of the congregation to receive the Law. Here,
too, one can see the ﬁtness of the injunction. to set bounds around the
mount, that neither man nor beast might approach too near. The en-
campment before the Mount, as has been before suggested, might not
improbably include only the head-quarters of Moses and the elders, and
of a portion of the people; while t‘he remainder, with their ﬂocks, were
scattered among the adjacent valleys.” To us it appeared probable
that here, at least, was the place which the writer or writers of the
Book of Exodus had'in mind, as the scene of the giving of the Law;
and no one on the spot can avoid the conviction that the writer was in-
timately-acquainted with the localities of the Peninsula of Sinai.

The descent from our pinnacle was less difﬁcult than we had ex.
pected—prohahly from our being exhilarated by what we had seen. In
the little plain of the cypress, coﬂ'ee was brought to us by our d
men. who were better aware than ourselves of what still la before us.
The guides now led us down by a ravine which descended directly
upon the wadee in which the convent stands. This long pass was one
continuous series of shattered rocks, so fatiguing to traverse that the
strongest of us took shorter and more timorous steps, and more frequent
rests, till the trembling of our limbs made us glad to be at last within
sight of home. The heat among the rock-shelves of the wadee was
excessive; and now having accomplished all our objects in this singu-
lar and interesting region, we were not sorry to see encamped behind
the convent some of the camels and drivers with whom we were to
proceed to-morrow towards the head of the Gulf of Akaba.

 

CHAPTER V.

MOSES AT MOUNT SINAI.

Tnavgreat interest of the Sinai region lies in its unaltered and un-
alterable character. There it is, feature by feature the same as when
those events occurredwhioh make it holy ground. In every other kind
of scenery, there is more or less change, from one thousand years to
another. The country is diﬂ‘erently cleared, or cultivated, or peopled:
eventhe everlasting Nile changes its course. But here. where there
is neither clearing, nor cultivation. nor settled people, where it seems
as if volcanic action only could make new features in the scene, and
where volcanic action does not seem probable, there is no impediment
to one’s seeing Sinai as it was when Moses there halted his people.
Page-321
loans ‘1' noun emu. 319

And Idid so see Sinai, during the memorable Sunday we spent there.
Turning my back on the convent, and forgetting the wretched supersti-
tions of the monks, I looked abroad that day with the eyes of a disciple
of Moses, who had followed his footsteps from Memphis hither; and I
saw more than by many years' reading of the Pentateuch at home.
How diﬂ'erently the Pentateuch here reads, from the some worn old
Bible which one has handled for ﬁve-and-twenty years, I could not have
imagined. The light from Egypt and Arabiashining into it illuminates
unthought-of places, and gives a new and most fresh coloring to the
whole. Ilittle thought ever to have_seen so much of Moses as I did
this day. within sight of Arab tents. like those in which he and Zipporah
and their children lived when ﬁrst here with Jethro's ﬂocks; within
sight of the same peaks which were landmarks to the wandering tribes;
and of the same wadees where they rested, and surrounded by the
very same mountain springs whence they brought water for themselves
and their ﬂocks. The wells within the convent seem to have been
always inexhaustible; yet I dare say some of the Hebrew women
and children discovered the ice-cold spring behind, which has no
doubt lain in its shadowy nook since Horeb was upreared. I wonder
whether it was fringed with ferns when the Hebrew women saw it, a
it is now. It was a tempting place {or gossip,——for sitting down in the
shade to talk over the comforts of Goshen, and the verdure of Egypt.
and pointing out the dreariness of this place, and reminding one an-
other how unwilling they and their husbands had been to leave Egypt,
foreseeing that they should only get into trouble by trying a new
country! In yonder plain was the crowd of dark, low tents, with
no tabernacle yet in the midst. Among the neighboring wadees were
the herdsmen dispersed, tending their ﬂocks every day of the week;
for as yet there was no Sabbath. This, and very much more did I see
on that Sunday at Sinai; much that I could not have seen if I had been
a cotemporary disciple of Moses ;'—much that can be seen only by the
light of an after age. of the educational purposes and processes for which
the Hebrews were brought here.

Here, in some nook which had been his haunt while watching his
ﬂocks, sat Moses in those da s, overlooking the ﬂock which he was
now to lead as the Shepherd 0 Men. How intense must have been his
sense of solitude here! No longer learning, in congenial companion-
ship. “all the wisdom of the Egyptians," but alone,—he the only wise
and the only earnest man among a multitude who had no wisdom and
no virtue ;—-he. a man of ﬁne organization, of gentle rearing, of timid
nature, “looking before and alter,” and overwhelmed with what he
saw,—how could he sustain himself under his charge? Without ir-
reverence, we may attribute to him the sustaining thought which was
uttered by one long after him: “ the world hath not known thee; butI
have known thee." Retired into the mountain to pray. he saw be-
neath him,—net the gleaming lake, on whose shores were those whom

‘ Exodus XIV. 12.—“ Is not this the word that we did tell thee in Egypt, saying, -
let us alone, that we may serve the Egyptians?”
Page-322
320 . layman urn.

he was to make “ ﬁshers of men;" not ﬁelds “ white untothe harvest,"
but only parched‘ wilds thronged with- people from whom he could
choose none to help him and carry out his work. That land of the
lake and ripening ﬁelds lay. not beneath him. but far away in the
future,—-seen only in faith, and never to be entered by him: his sup-
ports must therefore be from faith and benevolence ;—-from his trust in
God and hislove to his brethren : and we may hope and believe that
amidst his anxieties and tremblings. his doubts of himself and his shame
for the people under his charge, these were enough. We may trust
that he had his hours of comfort and high hope in his mountain retire~
ments. It is impossible to avoid endeavoring to enter itito his mind.
when on the spot of his meditations. We cannot help “looking before
and after." from his point of view, by the light which he himself has
given us,—the glory which shines from his face even upon our time,
brightened as it is by that greater light’which afterwards arose “ to en-
lighten the gentiles. and glorify the people Israel.”

By his priestly rank and privile es. Moses knew the~Mysteties of
Egyptian worship. He was the-on y one of the multitude at Sinai who
knew, what we all know, or may know, now,—-that the two chief objects
of all the heathen Mysteries were the presermion of the doctrine of the
Divine Unity.and the detection or explanation of Idolatry. The Orphic
Hymn,‘ sung by the initiated in Mysteries which were derived from
Egypt, was familiar truth to him :-—“I willdeclare a secret to' the
initiated ; but let the doors be shut against the profane ..... I shall
utter the truth without disguise. Suﬂer not, therefore,vthy former pre-
judices to debar thee from that happylife which the_knowledge of these
sublime truths will procure unto thee: but carefully contemplate this
divine oracle, and preserve it in purity of mind and bean. Go on. in
the right way, and contemplate the sole Governor of the world. He
is One, and of Himself Alone; and to that One all things owe their
being. He operates through all, was never seen by mortal eyes, but
does Himself see every one.” Moses knew that this sublime truth of the
Mysteries was once the common faith of men, though it was now called
Atheism. from the contempt it was supposed to cast upon the popular
gods; and that it must again become the faith of mankind, through him.
amidst all the difﬁculty and suffering which attend a return from error
to a fundamental primitive idea. He knew that before he could see
his hope fulﬁlled,—his hope that every Hebrew would worship Jehovah
as his father Abraham had done,—the people must go through a pro-
cess of training as painful to‘ himself as irksome to them. But this was
the work he had to do; and he had brought them hither to begin it.

“With regard to the other part of the Sloan,” (of the Mysteries,) says
Bishop Warburtond’ “ the doctrine of the Um". Clemens Alexandri-
nus informs us that the .Egyptian mysta gues taught it amongst their
greater secrets. “The E ptians,‘ says e, ‘did not use to reveal their
mysteries indiscriminateﬁ'yto all, nor expose their truths concerning

' Quoted by Clemens Alexandrinns and Eusebiusu—See “Warburton’s Divine
Legatian of Moses," I. 232.
T Divine Legation of Moses, I. 223.
Page-323
Hours as IOUN'I' snur. 82!

their gods to the profane, but to those only who were to succeed to the
administration of the State: and to such of the priests as were most
approved by their education, learning, and quality.’"

It was the glory of Moses that he saw how such a truth concerned
all the children of men: how this was a matter in which those were
the truly profane who monopolized the truth, and dishonored God by
hiding him from the minds and hearts of mankind at large; and not
those outside who could not pay homage to a God of whom they had
never heard. His was the enterprise of laying open the Mysteries
to all, and of making of the Hebrews a high-caste nation. It could
not be done anywhere but in the Desert. The isolation of the Desert
was required quite as much for the safety of the announcement as for
the training of the people in their puriﬁed faith. In Egypt. or any
other heathen country, the doctrine of Moses would have excited hor-
ror, as the Atheism‘ of those days; and he would himself have been
torn to pieces as that greatest of criminals, a revealer of the Mysteries.
He came into the desert to do the daring Deed: and how the results
were estimated in the future days of his nation, Josephus shows us in
a passage of his Reply to Apion which is singularly interesting to us
here. This citizen of a high-caste nation tells Apion that the highest

'and sublimest knowledge held by a few of the gentiles, and enjoyed
only on the rare occasions of their Mysteries. was the daily privilege
of the whole Hebrew people. He says,1’ “ Can any government he more
holy than this? or any religion better adapted to the nature of the Deity!
Where, in any place but this. are the whole people, by the special di-
ligence of the priests, to whom the care of public instruction is com-
mitted, accurately taught the principles of true piety! So that the body
politic seems, as it were, one great assembly. constantly kept together,
for the celebration of some sacred mysteries. For those things which
the gentiles keep up for a few days only, that is. during those solemni-
ties they call Mvs'rsluss and INITIATIONS, we, with vast delight, and a
plenitude of knowledge which admits of no error, fully enjoy, and per-
petually contemplate through the whole course of our lives. If you ask
the nature of those things which in our sacred rites are enjoined and
forbidden. I answer, they are simple. and easily understood. The ﬁrst
instruction relates to the Dunn. and teaches that Goo coxsams ALI.
fumes, and is it Being every way perfect and happy; that he is self-
existent, and the Son Cause of all existence; the Beginning, Middle,
and End of all things." due.

The Supreme. as made known in the heathen Mysteries, exercised
no immediate government over men; and in order to give them any
idea of a divine government.~nationsl and subordinate gods were pre-
sented to them, who must. of course, be named. Much superstition in
Egypt was connected with the names of the gods; and the Hebrews
could not. as the history shows us, recognize a protecting god. who was

' It is instructive to see what the " Atheism" of Epicurus was, in that saying of
his whichfLord Bacon declares (Essay 16, “of Atheism”) that it is worthy of Plato:
“Non deos vulgi negare profanum; Bed vulgi opiniones diis applieare profanum."

1' Com. Ap. lib. 11., cap. 22. Quoted by Warburtoa, Divine Leg. 1. 225.

21
Page-324
822 nuns ma.

declared to them as a patriarchal, and was henceforth to be a national
God. but through a Name. The ﬁrst request recorded to be made by
Moses was to be commissioned to declare a Name to the people: an in—
cident which shows how completely they had lost the knowledge of
One God. and how thoroughly polytheistic were their religious ideas.‘
And these were the people whom he had to bring into a clear moral
relation with one divine Ruler. under such deﬁnite sanctions as should
keep their minds from going astray among various objects of worship!
No wonder it was long,—many generations—before they conceived of
Jehovah as more than a National God. He was the God of their fathers,
and their own: better and stronger than the gods of other nations.—
and even their over-ruler: but still, the God of none but the Hebrews:
——the benefactor of the children of Abraham, but the enemy of the
Egyptians and the Canaanites.

In this last belief. it is clear that they were not contradicted or dis-
couraged. In establishing a clear moral relation between them and One
Divine Ruler. it was necessary to keep them out of the way of danger
from the two most populous and civilized countries in the world.—
Egypt and Canaan. Here they were withdrawn into the Desert
which lay between the abstract polytheism of the Egyptians and the
elementary worship of the Canaanites; but their minds were full of
the remembrance of the one: and they must soon (as Moses then sup-

. posed) come into the sight of the other. Besides attaching them to
their God. it was evidently thought needful by him that they should
consider their God to be the enemy of their enemies, in the land they
the had left and that to which they were going. And thus was Jehovah
God of the Hebrews alone for so long a time, that it is difﬁcult to learn
from the history when the Jewish nation even began to be prepared for
the nobler theological views presented by Christ. Low. in the compa-
rison, as the ancient conception appears. we need only place ourselves
back in the time of the Exodus to see how new and how mighty was
the idea of the Supreme being a tutelary god. As we all know. itwas
too new and too mighty for the Hebrew mind of the time.

As for the form which the relation between Jehovah and his people
was to take, that was in entire agreement with the training of the
mind of Moses, and the conceptions and needs of the people. The
'only form in which a divine government could be recognized in those
days, in Egypt or elsewhere. was that of a theocracy. The individual
called king, in Egypt and elsewhere, was a priest; a vicegerent of the
local god. But while these kings ruled in the name of the gods. and
had the advantage of their authority. they appropriated to themselves
the honors and privileges of royalty. and eclipsed to the people any
sacred light which might have visited them from a direct relation with
anything divine. The noble, venerable, inestimable distinction between

‘ As Lord Bacon observes, “The Indians of the west have names for their par.
ticular gods, though they have no name for God: as if the heathen: should have had
the names of Jupiter, ApolloI Mars, 8m, but not the word Dan,- which shows, that
even those barbarous people have the notion, though they have not the latitude and
extent or it."—Euay 16M, 0] Atheism.
Page-325
IO!!! A'l' loam emu. 323

the Mosaic plan and that of any other theooracy was that here no such
intervention was permitted. There was no man here to whom they
were to bow the knee, and who was to tower between them and the
light of their life. Instead ofa crowned priest, in royal chariot. riding
over the people’s necks to attend Mysteries in which he was to enjoy
what they would never know, here was the meek magnanimous Moses
standing barefoot and plainly clad, pointing the gaze of the people to
the mountain top or to the sky. undergoing instead of enjoying power,
and having nothing to ask of Jehovah or of his brethren but that He
should be their God. and they should be His people. According to all
that Moses had ever seen, learned, or thought. he must unite in him-
self the oﬂices of legislator and interpreter of the Divine Will. The
lawgiver and priest were one in every country he had known or heard
of: and he must be so now. But never before was there a Vicegerem
of an Unseen Power so meek: and never a latvgiver so disinterested.
We never think of him as the Pharaoh he might so easily have been;
—more easily than he could be what he was. We think of him as
one of the quietest men whose names have come down to our day; a
man struggling under a burden of duty and destiny which he found
too heavy for him. and from which he would fain have shrunk, to
hide himself again in the moist nooks of the Desert, with his sheep
about him.and ruminate once more over " all the wisdom of the Egyp‘
tians." Yet. as he did not quit his work, and as he did achieve an en-
terprise which will affect the destinies of mankind to the end of time,
we may be assured that he had the support of that privileged thought,
—“the world hath not known thee, but I have known thee.”

It appears as if there had been an intention and a hope of training
the Hebrews to a state of knowledge and obedience by moral instruc-
tion, and a plan of pure and simple worship; the obedience of Abra-
ham, and the simplicity of his worship in the door of his tent being per-
haps the example and the aspiration which Moses had before him when
he brought forth the Hebrews from Egypt. Warburton and others are
of opinion that the ritual scheme was adopted after the affair of the
golden calf. which showed the people to be more incapable of a pure
religion and direct communication than could have been supposed. A
comparison of the two sets of Commandments seems to countenance
this view. The ﬁrst set.* though falling below the inculcation of per-
sonal righteousness, yet are of a much higher character than the second.
They aim at a. good degree of social order, for the age in which they
were given, and contain nothing ritual except the precept about the
Sabbath. This is the set brought down by Moses when he found the
people feasting about the golden calf,and which he broke and threw from
him. The second Tend‘ which remained permanent. are such as may
well be believed to haVe accompanied the ritual system now supposed
to have been instituted. They are all ritual except the ﬁrst two: these
two merely forbidding nll covenanting with heuthens, and making of
molten gods. The whole set contains no directions for personal or social

‘ Exodus XX. 3—18. 1' Exodus XXXIV. 12—27.
Page-326
324 usual urn.

conduct. The fact certainly conveys the impression that a more ad-
vanced system of Moral Government was withdrawn for the time. and
replaced by one less advanced, in proportion to the disappointment
caused by the lapse of the de raded people. The Jewish writers, for
the most part. lay the blame 0 this lapse on the inﬂuence oftheE p-
tian mob, “ the mixed multitude" who followed in the train of theglzle-
brews:‘ but it does not sane their credit at all to suppose them more
easily inﬂuenced by such comrades than by Moses and the ideas he
had communicated. However this may be, a ritual religion they were
now to have: and in this ritual, they'must have their Moral Govern-
ment. Moses had been compelled to surrender his loftiest aim and
hope—that of raising the people above a ceremonial worship. His
object henceforth plainly was to elevate the ceremonial worship into as
good a moral government as its nature would permit.

In the great concern of all.—that of the Sanctions of the Moral Law
which he gave, Moses made his third marked departure from the reli-
gion of E ypt. The ﬁrst was his laying open the Mysteries: the se-
cond, his eclaring the Supreme a lutelary god: and the third was his
offering. as the Sanction of the Moral Law. Temporal Retribution in-
stead of Future Reward and Punishment.

Under every religious system, the excruciating difﬁculty has been
the Existence of Evil. Individuals may reconcile themselves to the
fact; and so many have succeeded in doing- so. that the histo of

hilosophy is full of the apologies of sages for the existence of Evil.

at. as a philosophical question, the difﬁculty has never been touched;
and philosophy has not yet discovered how it ever can he. The learn-
ing of Moses taught him exaCtly what the deepest learning teaches the
wisest men now,—-the mischievous operation of this difﬁculty upon all
religious systems that the world had known. He was aware that the
most pernicious of all the discrepancies between the Mysteries and the
popular knowledge lay in the respective views of the Initiated and the
people about a future life. While the priests, unable to account for
the inequalities of Providence in this life, taught that reward and
punishment would restore the balance in the next, all philosophers
whatever (Cicero tells us), held in common that God could not be angry;
and that he could not hurt any one: that anger and favor are equally
impossible to a happy and immortal Nature; and that therefore Fear
can have no place in the mind of man in regard to God.—What a
state of things was here! As Plutarch says, You may examine the
globe: and in no re ion where Man has lived will you ﬁnd “ a
city without the know edge of a god. or the practice of religion: with-
out the use of vows, oaths. oracles, and sacriﬁces to procure good, or of
deprecatory rites to avert evil ;" and elsewhere, again, he declares it to
be so ancient an opinion that good men should be recompensed after
death, that he could not reach either to the author or origin of it. Such
was the escape for the multitude from the diﬂiculty of the unequal dis-
tribution of pain and pleasure among men: and while the multitude

' Kitto'l History of Palestine, p. 200 (note).
Page-327
loans at IOUN‘I' strut. 825

received this on their authority. the Initiated 'were a eed that God was
so free from affections and passions of every kind t at he neither can-
ferred good nor inﬂicted evil on individuals, at any time.—Warburton
tells us. in the following passage. of a late result of this discrepancy,
which shows us how the case must have appeared to one so learned
and sagacious as Moses.

“Lactantius. trom a forensic lawyer. now become an advocate for
Christianity. found nothing so much hindered its reception with the
learned as the doctrine of a Future Judgment; which their universal
principle, that God could not be angry. directly opposed. To strike at
the root of this evil. he composed a discourse which Jerome calls pul-
eherrimum opus. entitled on In oat; for he had observed, he tells us.
that this principle was now much spread among the common people.
he lays the blame of it upon the philosophers; and tells us. as Tully
had done before. that all the philosophers agree to exclude the passion
of anger from the Godhead.”‘ The ground taken by Lactantius was
that if God could not be angry, all reli ion was done away with, as a
future state of retribution was thus exc uded; he therefore contended
that the God of the Christians was actuated, as man is, by love and
hatred—only that they are always reasonable in Him—and he then
proceeded to argue for God having a human form. as a necessary con-’
sequence of his sharing human passions. Into this we need not go.
The important part of this citation is the testimony that the doctrine of
a future Judgment was the obstacle to the reception of Christianity by
the learned—and why?

Moses saw thus that the doctrine of future reward and punishment
was disbelieved by the learned, and was so far made a deception to the
people as that the inevitable suffering which arises from sin. and the
peace which attends goodness. were concealed from them under the
disguise of arbitrary punishment and reward. The Initiated appear to
have believed in a future life. and in the natural retribution by which,
from their very constitution, the virtuous enjoy and the vicious suffer;
but, in as far as they declared these things in the form of divine pro-
mises and threats. contingent on future conduct. they deceived the
people; and Moses as carefully avoided perpetrating this evil as any
other connected with the Mysteries. .

The second ordinary way of meeting the difﬁculty of the existence
of evil was no less familiar to him. from his position through life; the
supposition of two opposing deities. He had seen in Egypt how from
being brothers,children of one father. Osiris and 'l‘ypho.Good and Evil,
had become foes; and he had witnessed the moral mischief which arises
from the belief of a malevolent spiritual being. We ﬁnd therefore in
the Mosaic system no more trace of an evil spiritual being, hostile to
God and man. than of a future life of reward and punishment. The
serpent in Eden is, in the history, a mere serpentmltogether Egyptian
in its conception, and bearing no relation whatever to the Evil Being
with which superstition afterwards connected it. Moses nowhere hints

/'

' Divine Legation, be, I. 497.
Page-328
m nuns an.

at such a notion as that of an express Author ovail. On the

his doctrine, consistent from end to end of his teachings, is that which
Isaiah expressed afterwards in the plain words:' “I am the Lord.and
there is none else. I form the light and create darkness: [make
peace and create evil. I the Lord do all these things.”

As for the remaining method of attempting to account for the exist-
ence of Evil—the allowing a separate and opposing operation to the
high qualities of the Supreme—Moses had seen enough of the conse-
quences of deifying the divine attributes to avoid all the unphilosophicnl
methods in use elsewhere of setting up a rivalship between Holiness
and Compassion. between Justice and Mercy. He avoided this practice
as the immediate origin of polytheism. The God of the Hebrews, as
declared by him, was presented under the simple aspect ofa Being in
whom all power and all will were concentrated—the sole Ruler, who
chose and governed this people by his simple and all-venerable Will.

As for what Moses believed about the destiny of man after death.
that is a question apart from what he taught to the people—apart from
that of the Sanctions of the Law which he offered. He probably held
the doctrine of his caste in Egypt—that the soul or life was an emana-
tion from the Supreme. to be absorbed after death, and lose its separate
existence. From the few and indistinct traces which remain in the
Hebrew Scriptures ofa traditional belief of some kind of futurity for
man, it is probable that he thus held this doctrine of the Mysteries.
But that he saw this doctrine to be as impractical as every one sees it
to be, is clear from the whole tenor of his life, conduct and doctrine.
His sublime object of laying open the Mysteries to his whole people,
his noble earnestness and unquestionable simplicity and sincerity prove.
as strongly as act can prove thought, that he held no practical religions
beliefthat he did not impart.

The Sanction that he did present. we all know—Temporal Reward
and Punishment. A more plain and practical doctrine was never pre-
sented to the mind of man than this of Moses; that every act of obedi-
ence to the Will of Jehovah should be rewarded by happiness in this
life, and every act of disobedience punished by unhappiness. The
happiness and unhappiness were to be substantial. generally immediate.
and visible to the eyes of all men. Generally immediate, but not al-
ways. Jehovah was long-suﬁ‘ering. and might delay retribution: but
the evil would he suffered by the children. down to distant generations.
if the sinner himself appeared to escape it. Not only was this procras-
tination of punishment indicated by the fact of an unequal providence
from day to day; but it afforded a hold upon a class of sinners who
could not be otherwise wrought upon; the fearless and hardy. who
would brave consequences for themselves, but whose parental aﬂections
would hear an appeal; or, at worshtheir family pride—a stron passion
among the Hebrews. in this declaration of procrastination 0% punish-
ment. we see also the ﬁrst opening of that doctrine, which has since
become so prominent in the religious life of man—the doctrine of Re-

- Isaiah, XLV. e, 1.
Page-329
nous AT loom- emu. 327

pentance. Of this great doctrine. which has perhaps more than any
other inﬂuenced the spiritual life of mankind, the religion of Moses ap-
pears to have opened the first suggestion.

As his doctrine necessarily supposes‘an equal Providence in this life.
the question unavoidably arises whether Moses believed in its simpli-
city : and if so, how he could believe it in the face of the facts which
daily met his eyes. This great point of contrariety between the Mosaic
and the Christian systems is-usually considered the most perplexin
that occurs. It was beautifully said both by Lord Bacon and Pasca .
(by which ﬁrst I cannot discover,—-they being cotemporaries,) that

rosperity was the promise of the Old Testament: Adversity of the
New." This is most true and beautiful: a saying worthy of medita-
tive Christians. It impels us to consider whether Moses could have
simply and undeviatingly believed that every Hebrew was happy or
unhappy according to his deserts. Here, in this Desert. did he see no
person sick whom he could not believe to be guilty? Did he not see
infants languishing with thirst? Did he not see bold and irreligious
men appropriating comforts to themselves, to the injury of the gentle
and obedient? How this doctrine subsequently acted on the minds of
the Hebrews, in the interpretation of the ways of God to man. we see
everywhere. from the Books of Chronicles which. in recording any
misfortune happening to anybod . always suppose or invent (as we
see by a comparison with the paraHel passages in Kings). a prior sin as
the cause. up to the ease of him concerning whom the disciples asked
Jesus. “Master, who did sin, this man or his parents. that he was born
blind?” The question is whether Moses. offering a sanction which
required and supposed an equal Providence. simply held that the fact
was so. without any doctrine of compensation whatever. Judging by
the evidences we have everywhere else of his earnestness and open-
ness. 1 cannot but believe that he did. And this, not by such consi-
derations as Christians have the beneﬁt of ; considerations of the inte-
rior peace which attends well-doing. and of the insignificance of the
outward fortunes in comparison with the welfare of the mind. so that
the whole world is no equivalent for the soul; but in a simple faith that
Jehovah would and did deal with his people.—with every man, woman
and child of them—according to their deserts, manifesting his retribu-
tion in their outward fortunes. In this view,it does not matter whether
the obedience required was ritual or spiritual obedience. When there
was no water, the multitude thirsted alike,—those who were too young
to sin under the law. as well as the mature; and before the time when
children could suffer for their parents' sin, as well as alien—Whatever
was the inner conviction of Moses. such was the Sanction offered by
him; in avoidance at once of the popular heathen doctrine of future
reward and punishment. and of the polytheistic belief of an Evil Spirit
contravening the goodness of God.

The reward and punishment being individually experienced, as all
enjoyment and suffering must be, had the law the individual for its
object.or the public 00d! About this there can be no question. The
relation here was 0% King and people. leaving for Christianity the
Page-330
328 . nuns Lll’l.

nobler and dearer relation of Father and Child. Virtue here was. not—
rectitude, but obedience. Sin was. not corrupt thought. but failure of
allegiance to the Divine King. The Commandments,therefore,—-even
the ﬁrst ten, which are moral and not merely ritual like the second,
relate only to political or social virtue, leaving it to Christianity to
work out the nobler object of personal holiness. Such degree of self-
government as is necessary for social virtue is of course supposed and
required; but merely such as is indispensable, for the 00d of society
and the honor of its Divine Ruler, and not that thoroug interior puri-
ﬁcation and discipline which Christianity offers to every man with no
political view, but for his own sake. Our own Hooker seems to have
described the scope of the ﬁrst and higher set of Commandments, when
he says.’ “A politic use of religion there is. Men fearing God are
thereby a good deal more effectually than by positive laws restrained
from doing evil; inasmuch as these laws have no further power than
over our outward actions only: whereas unto men‘s inward cogitations,
unto the privy intents and motions of their hearts, religion serveth for
a bridle. What more savage, wild and cruel than Man, if he see him-
self able, either by fraud to overreach, or by power to overbear, the laws
whereunto he should be subject? Wherefore in so great boldness to
offend, it behoveth that the world should be held in awe, not by a vain
surmise, but a true apprehension of somewhat. which no man may
think himself able to withstand. This is the Politic Use of Religion.”
Even this politic use was found to be of too high a character for the
Hebrews as yet. When Moses came down from the Mount with the
tables of the Moral Law in his hands,-—came down perhaps by some
one of the rocky chasms which I was exploring this Sunday at Sinai,
—and looked towards the plain whichl gazed on this day. he saw,
not a people awaiting in awe the pleasure of their Divine King, but a
crowd rejoicing in having possessed themselves of a god who would
protect them back to Egypt ;—back to the sweet Nile waters. and the
merry feasts of idols. Instead of the cheerful response he looked for,
as before, “ and all the people answered together, and said, ‘All that
the Lord hath spoken. we will do.’ " he heard the sound of shouts and
singing as the people danced about their golden Apis. Then Moses
not only destroyed the idol. but the tables of the Law ;—“ brake them
beneath the Mount ;" and after a long and terrible conﬂict, surrendered
his highest hopes for the people, and pursued a lower aim.—He gave
them a ritual, Egyptian in its forms and seasons and associations, but
with Jehovah alone for its object. The multitude were in fact inca-
pable of receiving a faith without forms. as children are incapable of
receiving abstract ideas but by means of illustrations: and they would
have gone. back to Egypt on the ﬁrst disappointment or pretence, if
Moses had not brought as much of Egypt as he could into the Desert
to them—He had all the requisite knowledge of Egyptian worship
and ways. He had at his command, among the “ mixed multitude,”
Egyptian artiﬁcers ; besides that many of the Hebrews themselves were

' Mluiastical Polity, Book V. sec. 2.
Page-331
ms ‘1' loom am“. 329

no doubt skilled artisans. So he treated them as they compelled him
to do. He offered them a new set of commandments, eight out of ten
of which were about feasts and offerings, and sacriﬁces and holy days.
He ﬁxed upon the da s of Egyptian feasts, knowing that the people
would at all events 0 erve the days of New Moon. First-fruits, &c.,
and securing this observance for Jehovah by special ordinance. He
set them to work upon a tabernacle.—a movable temple for the Desert,
as nearly as possible resembling an Egyptian temple. He made them
an ark,—exactly like what the traveler in Egypt sees sculptured in the
processions of the priests, on the walls of palaces and temples ﬁnished
before Abraham was berm—He permitted to them an oracle, the Urim
and Thummim, derived immediately from an Egyptain model. And
most mournful to him of all, he had to give them a priesthood, like that
which they had been accustomed to look up to as sacred. He had
hoped to make of them a high-caste nation, and had delivered to them
the announcement “And ye shall he unto me a kingdom of priests, a
holy nation."‘ But they could not yet take that rank: the were not
adequate to that privilege; they preferred deputing their honors to a
class. and withdrawing themselves behind this class from communion
with Jehovah, and from the light of his countenance.-—It had become
impossible for them to take up the patriarchal faith where their fathers
had lost it: and the Egyptian element which could not yet be dislodged,
required largeaccommodation. It is very interesting to read the account
which their. own pious descendant, Maimonides, gives? of this crisis in
the life of his race. ,

“ As at that time the universal practice, and the mode of worship in
which all were educated was. that various kinds of animals should be
offered in the temples in which their idols were placed, and before
whom their worshipers were to prostrate themselves and to burn in-
cense; and as there were also certain persons set apart for the service
of these temples, therefore the Divine wisdom and Providence of God,
which so eminently shines forth in all his creatures, did not ordain the
abandonment or abolition of all such worship. For it is the well-known
disposition of the human heart to cleave to that to which it has been
habituated; even in things to which it is not naturally inclined. To
have decreed the entire abolition of all such worship would, therefore,
have been the same as if a prophet should come and say, ‘It is the
command of God. that in the day of trouble ye shall not pray, nor fast,
' nor publicly seek him; but your worship shall be purely mental, and
shall consist in meditation, not in action.’ On these accounts, the Cre-
ator retained those modes of worship, but transferred the veneration from
created things and shadows to his own Nuts. and commanded us to
direct our religious services to himself." The learned disciple of
Moses then goes on to give instances. To the traveler in Egypt, the
most cursory glance at the Jewish law will show the identity of the
religious customs and manners of the two peoples; .and the deepest

' Exodus XIX. 6.
1' Cited by Kitto in History of Palestine, p. 226.
Page-332
830 ' nan-um Luvs.

research will only conﬁrm his conviction that the forms of their reli-
gious life were substantially the same: the object being changed, and
some needful reforms introduced.

When Moses had failed to satisfy the people that Jehovah should
have no meaner temple than that of the heavens and the earth. and
when it therefore became necessary to prepare for him a visible abiding
place. there could be no doubt about what kind of temple it must be.
The Hebrews were living. like the Egyptians, under a theocracy; and
the temples of Egypt. palaces for the Divine King. must be the mo-
del. “The Israelites.” says Dr. Kitto.‘ “ were taught to feel that the
tabernacle was not only the temple of Jsuovan, but the palace oftheir
Kmo; that the table supplied with wine and show-bread was the royal
table; that the altar was the place where the provisions of the monarch
were prepared; that the priests were the royal servants. and were
bound to attend not only to sacred but also to secular affairs. and were
to receive. as their reward. the ﬁrst tithes. which the people, as sub-
jects, were led to consider as part of the revenue which was due to
God, their immediate sovereign. Other things. of a less prominent
and important nature, had reference to the same great end.”

This is not the place for going into any elaborate comparison of the
Hebrew and Egyptian religious ritual.—interesting as the subject is to
those who have followed the traces of the Israelites from the Nile to
Sinai. Besides that the subject may be found fully treated in the
writings‘of heathens. Jews. and Christians, it belongs less to the locality
of Sinai than to that of Palestine, as there is no saying how little or
how much of the ritual was ordained at ﬁrst. and what grew up after-
wards. As the learned have now made it clear that the Books of the
Law were certainly not all written in their present form. for some cen~
turies afterwards. we. cannot tell how deep was the first descent into a
ceremonial religion at Sinai. and how much was the work ofa strength-
ening priesthood in after years. Some few particulars, however, stand
out clear. as original, and relating to the times of the abode at Sinai.—
Among these is the setting up of the Tabernacle.

There is no reason to suppose that the Tabernacle was the ﬁrst por-
table sanctuary ever made. The eastern idolaters of the old world
used to carry about with them the shrines of their idols in their wan-
derings: and the prophet Amos? and the apostle Stepheni charge the
Israelites with having done even this. Travelers tell us that at this day
the eastern Tartars carry about a tabernacle. which they set up for
purposes of worship. and take to pieces again when they migrate.
This is probably as old as any other nomads custom. Except in its
portableness. the tabernacle of the Hebrews was as like as it could be
made to an Egyptian temple. It had its circuit wall. represented by a
curtained enclosure; it had its open court; and then the ediﬁce itself.
in the form of an oblong square. It had the two chambers which are
the indispensable parts of all Egyptian temples,—the Holy Place; and

' History of Palestine, p. 227.
1' Amos V. 26. 12 Acts VII. 43.
Page-333
loses s'r IOUNT mar. 83!

within this. and very small.the Holy of Holies. The coverings which
formed the ceiling and walls of these chambers were embroidered with
ﬁgures of cherubim, as the ceilings and walls of Egyptian temples had
sculptures and paintings of heavenly creatures. If we may take the
description in the Ist chapter of Ezekiel as the Hebrew idea of cheru-
bim. nothing can be more like the lion-headed. hawk-headed. ox-head-
ed. winged images in the Egyptian sculptures. As in Egypt. the
wood-work of the sanctuary was of the acacia (shittim wood) which
grows abundantly in the wadees about Sinai, as about the shores of the
Nile: and the overla ing of this wood with gold was an old Pharaonic
practice. It is probable that much of the preparation was done by the
hands of Egyptian artisans who migrated with the Hebrews.

In the oldest Egyptian temples, before Abraham was born, the pur-
poses and rites of the inner tem le chambers were the same as in the
I‘abernacle at Sinai. and in the erusalem Temple, up to the day when
its priests ﬂed before the soldiers of Titus. Throughout all these ages,
the Holy of Holies was in the highest sense a sanctuary. No one am
tered it but the most privileged of the priests. and it contained nothing
but the symbol of the presence of the god. In the Egyptian temples.
this symbol was the shrine; a chest or closet. containing a sacred
pledge. and surmounted by an idol form on its lid or top: that idol form
being often guarded by winged creatures, two of the wings stretching
upwards. and two covering their bodies—as Ezekiel describes. The
guardian hawk and ibis, and the wings of Isis Protectrix precisely re-
semble this description; and. indeed. the ark of the Hebrews is ex-
actly the Egyptian shrine. with the omission of the idol ﬁgure in the
Mercy-seat. When carried by poles on the shoulders of priests, habit-
ed much like those of Egypt. trumpeters leading and following the
procession. with their rams‘ horns at their mouths. as on occasion of
the summons of Jericho. nothing can be imagined more like the sculp-
ture on the walls at Medeenet Haboo. where the shrine, priests, and
trumpeters make a part of the coronation procession.

The Sacriﬁces offer more points of resemblance than perhaps any
other part of the institutions of Moses. 'I‘he oblations or gifts were
the same. and the libations. The Hebrews brought cakes, meal, wa-
fers. and wine. turtle-doves and young pigeons. exactly as we see that
Egyptians brought them in days when no Hebrew had yet entered the
Nile Valley. Swine were abhorred by the Egyptians as the tenements
of evil spirits. from the earliest days. The practice of the sacriﬁcer
laying his hands on the head of the victim. and confessing his sins,
thus charging the head with imprecations, is precisely what Herodotus
relates‘ as the Egyptian practice; and so is the immolation of the red
heifer. If the Egyptian animal was not entirely red. if a single black
or white hair was found upon it, it was rejected. because Apia was
black. and Typho red.1‘ The Hebrew sacriﬁce was to be “ a red heifer.
without spot. wherein is no blemish. and upon which never came
yoke”; “In the Thebaid." says Sir G. Wilkinson. “ the sheep was

‘ Herod. II. 39. 1' Larcher's note on Herod. II. 39. 1 Numbers XIX. 2.
Page-334
83') nsraan urn.

considered not merely as an emblem. but as the most sacred of all ani-
ma'ls."—“ Strabo. Clemens. and many other writers, notice the sacred
character of the sheep; and the two former state that it was looked
upon with the same veneration in the Suite name as in the neighbor-
hood of Thebes_."‘ And such resemblances are found throughout the
whole institution. The great point of diﬂ‘erence is the precautionary
arrangement of Moses that the Hebrews should have but one temple.
and one great altar of sacriﬁce; an ordinance which was afterwards
broken through, with consequences fatal to the singleness of Hebrew
worship.

One particular of the Mosaic practices stands out above most others
in curiosity and importance. Magical arts and divination were forbid-
den to the Hebrews. for a reason which is obvious enough. These
were connected—perhaps scientiﬁcally and truly. certainly in the popu-
lar mind—with astrology; and the permission of them would have led
directly to the planetary worship which was, above everything, to he
dreaded in the approach of the Hebrews to Canaan. where that wor-
ship prevailed. But one exception was permitted. The High-priest,
and he alone, was to have recourse to an Oracle, and to be the inter-
preter of it. He was to ascertain the Divine pleasure by consultin
his breast-plate—the Oracle of the Urim and Thurnmim. As we nﬁ
know. this was the Sacred Oracle of the Hebrews for many centuries.
The Scriptures cite it up to the time of David. The words Urim and
Thummim mean “Light and Truth." or “Justice ;" and the article it-
self is called the ubreast-plate of Judgment." Now, the goddess of
Truth or Justice in Egypt was Thmei; and an Egyptian judge wored‘
suspended round his neck by a gold chain, a ﬁgure of this goddess.
studded with precious stones : and his way of pronouncing his decision
was by touching the successful applicant with this ﬁgure. Moreover,
Sir G. Wilkinson presents to us: an Egyptian breast-plate containing
the ﬁgures of the Sun (Ra). and 'l‘hmei—u Light and Truth." or “Jus.
tice ;"—the Sun. Ra, being King among the gods, and the Urei§. the
royal asps, being the symbols of majesty throughout the Egyptian sys-
tem.

And such as these were the forms, such as these the visible and tan-
gible media of communication with Jehovah which here took the place
of that direct intercourse between God and his people which Moses
had hoped to see established! He had brought them to this “ Mount
of God,” if not full of heart and hope, at least with a steady faith in
their elevation to the simple patriarchal allegiance which had been the
privilege of their fathers. In how diﬂ'erent a mood he saw them de-
part! They came “bringing no vain ablation," but the offering. he
trusted. of obedient and hopeful hearts. Now, he was to see them.—
from this mountain where we stood—depart on their way to the Pro-
mised Land—their backs bending under the burden of the sanctuary
and sacred paraphernalia. which he well knew to have less holiness in

' Ancient Egyptians, V. 191. l92. 1' lbid. II. 26. I [bit]. V. 28.
5 Suggested by 10rd Prudhoe. Cited in Ancient Egyptians, II. 27, n.
Page-335
raol stint 'ro anu. 838

them than one single aspiration to God—one single emotion of love or
hope for Man. Away they went—by that opening to the right—the
tribes in their order. and “the mixed multitude" following—all but
their leader happier than when they arrived. because as much as possi-
ble of Egyptian usage had been brought into the midst of them. For
the sake of this. they suspended for a time their cry to be led back to
Egypt. and consented to look forward. in a ﬁtful and vacillating way.
to the Promised Land. Perhaps the heaviest heart among all that
number was that of the Leader, who had found that even his brother
could turn against him. But he was still full of purpose and of faith.
The promises of the ancestral land before them were on his lips: and
in his secret heart he rejoiced that every step removed them further
from Egypt. Along that track we were now to go.

 

CHAPTER VI.

FROM SINAI T0 AKABA.

We were now about to set forth on what might be called the most
romantic part of our travels. Many European travelers have been to
Sinai. returning to Suez. or to Cairo: but few have seen Akaba; and
yet fewer Petra. It will be remembered that Burckhardt. with all
his qualiﬁcations for makin his way in the East, and all his earnest
desire to accomplish his 0 jects, failed to reach Akaba. and merely
pzssed through Petra, in haste and hazard. and under the pretence of

ing a Bedoueen, under a vow to sacrifice a goat to Aaron. Knowin
this, and being aware that the few who had visited these places ha
believed themselves in great danger,—danger to liberty and life as well
as property.—we scarcely expected, to the last moment, to be able to
go to either place: and the contract with Sheikh Bishara was framed
accordingly. It was as follows. Each camel, 150 piastres (II. 103.)
from Cairo to Sinai. if we took the usual route to Suez. If we went
by the southern route (which we did) [65 piastres per camel. If. on
our arrival at Sinai. we found it probable that we could get to Petra
from Altaba, Bishara was to take us on to Akaba for 100 piastres per
camel. in case of hearing no favorable news at Sinai. Bishara was to
take us to Nahle, on the middle route towards Palestine, for 100 pias-
tres per camel. In case of our not fallin in with an escort at Nahle,
Bishara was to take us on yet further. in this contract, all expenses
whatever for Bishara's camels and men were included.

At Sinai. we found a letter. intended for any travelers who might
arrive. which seemed to open our way to our objects. It was from a
gentleman with whom we had made some acquaintance at Cairo: and
he wrote from Altaba.sayiogthat the well-known Sheikh Hussein made
no difﬁculty about taking on travelers at that time through Petra to
Hebron: but that he would not declare his pecuniary terms. Having
been told that our party was coming on, he would be prepared to ne-
Page-336
334 nas'rnlm at".

otiate with us on our arrival. Our way was thus open to Akaba. at
Feast. We should see the eastern gulf of the Red Sea. and look over
upon the mountains of Eastern Arabia,pnd visit the Ezion-geber where
Solomon built his ships for trade with Ophir. and whither our minds
are continually brought in reading of the conﬂicts of the. Idumeans and
the Hebrews, for centuries after the settlement of the latterin Palestine.
We were really going to Akaba, thou h. as Dr. Robinson observes.‘
“ Shaw and Niebuhr only heard of A aha; Seetzen and Buerhardt
attempted in vain to reach it; and the ﬁrst Frank who visited it per-
sonally in modern times. was Riippell. in 1822."

Our route was not that taken by Burckhardt, Laborde. or Dr. Robin-
son. I suppose travelers always prefer their own route to any they
read or hear of: and all these gentlemen may have seen something
which they would pity us for missing: but I own I am sorry to think
that they never saw Wadee-el-Ain and Wadee Weteer. However. we
had not need all go the same road. The more divergence, the better
for the information of those at home.

We left the convent on the morning of the 10th of March, at ten
o‘clock, and traveled till three, when we enoamped in a wild lace
among shivered rocks. By the middle of the next day. we ha left
the granite. and found ourselves among sandstone. red and white. As
I had a rough-paced camel. I walked this morning fourteen miles. in
excessive heat. When we came to heavy sand, at two o'clock. I was
obliged to mount. The heat here was too much for our sociability. At
luncheon. some of the party crowded under the scanty shade of a thin
acacia, whose thorns. strewing the ground. made the resting-place un-
easy enough. One gentleman might be seen crouching alone, with his
luncheon, under an angle of the rock. where there was just shade
enough to thrust his head into. Another lay on a shelf a few feet
above the sand, with a red handkerchief over his head, thus introduc-
ing “a nice bit of color" into the landscape; while I sat apart. quietly
bearing the sunshine for the sake of a breath of air from the wadee,
and being spared the trouble of speaking. Our encampment was de-
lightful. after this: in a wide water-course. among the most fantastic
rocks of white sandstone. and surrounded by tufts of tamarisk and in-
numerable bushes of ﬂowering white broom.

On the llth, our own party were ofl‘some time before the rest: but
after an hour’s traveling through deep sand,our guide found himself at
fault among the fantastic scattered rocks; and we had to wait till the
Sheikh an the rest of the party came up. They dropped into our re-
cess from behind one group of rocks or another, till all were assembled ;
and then Bishara himselfwas not sure of the way. He ran hither and
thither among the slopes.and at last directed us over shelves, and down
steps, and through gullies, and in and out among the glaring rocks. so
that our wonder was. not that he was perplexed about the way. butthat
he could ever ﬁnd it. We now missed the pebbly and rocky tracks
which had hitherto served us almost all the way from Cairo, and found

' Biblical Researches,l. 253.
Page-337
no: smat To attain. 335

how different a thing it is to travel through sand. But, about two
o’clock, we turned up among granite mountains again. and found our-
selves in a gorge, compared with whose summits. Sinai and Horeb ap-
peared almost insigniﬁcant. Every winding disclosed something ﬁner
than we had yet met with; and at last we came upon a scene to which
we remembered no parallel. We all knew Switzerland; and we all
agreed that not even there had we seen anything so magniﬁcent asthis
Wadee-el-Ain,—the Valley of the Spring. Sir Frederick Henniker
calls some of the Arabian scenery, .. the Alps stripped naked.” No
description could better convey what we now saw. The'whole gorge
answered to my young imagination of the sterner parts of Greece; and
especially where a dribbing spring wetted the sands, and made small

Is Where fresh grass sprang. and tall slender rashes, and a few
thick-leared shrubs, and here and there a bushy alm. Deep shadows
were ﬂung across, and blazing sunshine poured own between. And
we had time to ﬁx in our minds the features of the scene; for the
camels paced hither and thither, to drink at the pools which they made
muddy ,for those behind. Presently, we proceeded more slowly still—
most willingly. for we felt we could hardly linger too long. As we
turned to the right into Wadee Weteer, we came upon a scene which
might also be called verdant. The asphodel and other plants. which
grew on perches and in crevices of the red rock, were of the liveliest
green, while tamarisks spread their sprawling growth in all nooks and
on many platforms. Not only did the camels stop to crop these tama-
risks: their drivers were seen at every bush. and in the midst of every
tree. gathering arms and laps full of twigs for their beasts. The white
sand under foot, the verdure skirting the mountains, and the precipitous
rocks, of a rich red hue. rising so as to narrow the sky. and to lessen
the glare to a pleasant light, ﬁlled us with a delight altogether new.
We wound along this pass for about three miles, and then encamped
in a spot, less superb than the closer parts of the gorge, but very fine.
It was on a platform in a nook of the pass. where the wind came freely,
and at night blew strong. We were guarded all round by solemn bar-
ren mountains, behind whose ridges the stars went down early. I lay
on the sand to watch them, though warned of scorpions; for the heat
within the tent was not to be borne till night. I observed here the
largest locusts I ever saw; two huge. hard, black locusts, each perched
in a bush. and not moving while it was light enough to see them.
Some of the company amused themselves with making a bonﬁre at
night, in spite of the wind. and kindly invited us to the fun; but I
preferred the solemn steady starlight.

The 13th was a glorious day. We made a long journey, every step
of which was beautiful. Before six we were on our way, proceeding
along the. gorge of Wadee Weteer till my eye was caught by a soft
vision of I did not know what. Ata distance, a line of heavenly hues
crossed the opening of the pass, so soft in contrast with the strong lights
and forms of the foreground, as to make me doubt for a while whether
what I saw was earth or sky. It was the range of eastern Arabian
mountains, as was presently shown by the little angle of deep blue sea
Page-338
330 um“ Lin.

that came in between. We were coming down upon the Gulf of Alta-
ba. The breeze blew cool upon our faces. and the whole com y

w merry. To see both shores of this Gulf of Akaba. where the
ﬂeets of Solomon and Jeboshaphat used to ride; to be actually gazing
upon the farther Arabian shore. gave us a kind of new sensation of
where we were; a truth. says my journal here. “which our daily com-
fort rather blunts the sense of." On the shore. the wind was strong;
and we went behind a glaring yellow rock to lunch. Our noon-tide
rest had now stretched out from twenty minutes to an hour, on days
when we found good shade. Sometimes I could not keep awake for a
single minute after alighting. but fell into a state more like stupor than
sleep. however hungry I might be—a consequence.l think. more of the
excessive light than the heat, and more perhaps of the camel-riding
than either. Today. however. in the fresh wind, I was wide awake;
and I vividly remember the pleasant hour under the rock, with chi-
bouques and conversation.

The remainder of the day's journey was easy—trotting over hard
tracks on the sea-beach for about three hours. Here we might push
on, without troubling ourselves about the baggage and the rest of the
caravan. We could not miss our way, and there was no danger from
Bedoueens as far as we knew. 80 two of us rode forward. posed the
baggage train. and decided on our resting-place. It was where a palm
sprang out of the sand. and some bushes growing near told of fresh
water. Beside this palm. and close upon the sea. was our own tent
pitched; and down I went. with Mrs. Y., to bathe. under a little thicket
of bushes near our tent. There was nobody to threaten us with sharks;
the sands were soft; the water was warm (73°); the blue sea. with its
white ripple. was like a lake among the surrounding high shores; and
the sunset light was gorgeous on the double range of opposite Arabian
mountains. The Gulf was here about fourteen miles wide.

[n the morning, we were eager to be off again along the shore; and
before six. when the dawn was growing into daylight on the sheeny sea.
three of us were trotting merrily ahead of the caravan. As I looked
back from the ﬁrst promontory which turned us into the sea. I saw the
troop scattered along the beach. and the last baggage camels pacing out
from among the bushes about our camp. Sometimes in the bays we
had to go slowly over ﬁelds of sand; sometimes to cross the pmmontories
by steep paths or shelves in the rocks; and oftener, to enter the water,

iding our camels as usual; for the water was as clear as the air. At
at we were brought to a stop, where we agreed that there were two
roads, if any. The promontory before us jutted out too far to make it
prudent to take the water without guidance; and there was besides
only a stony wadec which looked as if nobody ever had passed through
it. or ever would. 80 we made our camels kneel. and waited on our
saddles. Others who came up did the same. till we were a curious
kneeling <party. Bishara passed us at length. and led the way up the
stony wa ee. We little knew what we were entering upon; and if
any one had told us that it was the pass to Wadee Negabad, the words
Page-339
no: sun: so sun. 33‘!

woplld have conveyed to us no more than they probably now do to my
res era.

The ascending wadee narrowed to a pass of steeper ascent; and the
pass to a mere mountain road; and then. the road to a staircase—a zig-
zag staircase of steep, irre ular steps, so completely without pause that
the great anxiety of every y was to keep his camel going, because
every one behind was in suspension—hanging between two steps, so
that any stoppage must be worse than inconvenient. Many would
have been glad to dismount, but they 'must not-stop even for that mo-
ment. The wa was also too narrow for alighting safely. One lady
jumped off ; an then was in a great agony because her camel resisted
being pulled forward ; ' and there was not room for her to pass behind
to drive it. The next in the string applied hisstick to good purpose;
so that we were relieved from our hanging attitude. During that
minute. I could glance behind me; and most striking was the picture
of the sandy and stony areas below, with the long-drawn caravan wind-
inlg far beneath and up the steep. Our position must have looked ter-
ri c to the hindmost. At the top, we found ourselves on a pinnacle—
a mere point, whence the way down looked more threatening than that
we had passed. I could not allow myself a aingle‘moment here; for the
camels were still tail to noseall the way down; and in the same way must
they descend the tremendous zi zag before me. Most of the ntlemen
contrived to slip off here, but t ere was no room or time or me. in
the precise spot I occupied, to do so: so I set myself ﬁrm in my stir-
rups, and determined to leave it to my camel how to accomplish the
break-neck descent. Only two besides myself rode down the whole
way; and I believe we were all surprised that every one arrived at the
bottom in safety. There were a few slips and falls, but no harm done.
The ridge of a camel is a great height from which to look down on.not
only the steepest turns of sharp zigzag on the side of a reci ice, but
long slippery stone steps, in quick succession. 'I depen ed it together
upon my stirrups; a pair hung short over the front peg of the saddle,
which save the necessity of resting one‘s feet on the camel’s neck in
any steep descent, and are a great help in keeping one steady. I do
not think such a pass as this could be accomplished without them.

In the dreary scene below us we found a shady place, which yet was
dreadfully hot. We stayed an hour. though Akaba was yet ﬁve hours
of, and it was now half-past one. The baggage-camels and dragoman
of our party had gone on while we rested; so that we four must reach
Akaba this evening. whether the rest of the caravan did so or not; and
in the state of weariness and illness in which I was from the beat, this ,
was rather formidable to think of. After four o'clock, however, the
sun had so far declined as to become endurable. I took off my hat, and
let the warm breeze blow in my face, and felt that I could very well
reach Akaba. After passing the island of Grain, and before four
o'clock, the rest of the company stopped, pitching their tent: on the
beach, and we four trotted on. By the extraordinary kindness of some
of our companions, a tent was offered to Mrs. Y. and me, if we would

22
Page-340
888 mm.

stop ;but we declined it, thinking an encroachment which would have
been hold any where, too bad In such a place as this.

Akaba was now in si ghu—the fort and long line of palms, on the
opposite shore, round the head of the Gulf. At five o’clock. it seemed
rather furtheroﬂ‘ than nearer; and the gentlemen be to think we
could not hold out. Mr. E. pushed on to overtake A ee and the bag-

,and stop them. wherever they mi ht happen to be. Yet. fatigued
as was, I felt that evening ride to be elicious. How clear the light
was.—showing us every object alon the shore at the head of the gulf,
as if, after sunset. the very dusk has been made transparent! There
was Akaba, still and solitary !—tbere was the group pof our camels, so
minute that we could not see them move, but only barely glide: and
there was Mr. E.. distinguishable by his white hat. trotti fast In our
service! And here were we three and a camel boy a litt e group al-
most lost in the landscape, moving deliberately under the hills, with

the clear waters undulating on our right hand, and the stars coming
out over head.

Alee was so near Akaba when overtaken that it was useless to stop
him: and therefore we found, when we arrived at seven o'clock, that
our tents were pitched among those palms we had seen for so many
hours. We had traveled above twelve hours between breakfast and
dinner: but Mr. E. had seats. biscuits. and bottled porter for us; and
soon after eight we had dined, and were quite well.

Poor Burckhardt! what a pity it is that he could not travel round
the head of this gulf as easily as we did! The spot where we came
out upon the shore after luncheon seems to have been that where he
was turned back. Hostile Arabs lay between him and Akaba. There
is something pathetic' In his notice of this turning-point. “ Under these
circumstances. I reluctantly determined to retrace my steps, the next
day. but. instead of proceeding by the shore. to turn off Into the moun-
tains, and return to the convent by a more western route .—Akaha wu
not far distant from the spot from whenca we returned. Before sunset.
1 could distinguish a black line in the plain, where my sharp-sighted

ides clearly saw the date-trees surrounding the castle. which bore

E. 1.E.: it could not be more than ﬁve or six hours distant. Be-
fore as was a promontory called Ras Koreye." (the Graia of hbmde
and the maps.) “and behind this.” I was told. there Is another,bey and
which begins the plain of Akaba. ”'—- “ My guides told me that tn the
sea, opposite to the above-mentioned promontory of Ru Koreye, there
is a small island. They aﬂirmed that they saw it distinctly but I
could not, for it was already dusk when they pointed it out, and the next
morning. a thick fog covered the gum”?

He was no doubt looking too far. The island of Grain was lying
close inshore, and ve near; and its ruins must have can ht his eye
if he had not been 100 ing out over the gulf. His guides to (1 him that
the infidel: had put buildings upon the island, which made them all

' Travels' In Syria and the Holy had, pp 508, 509.
1’ lbid, p. 511.
Page-341
non mu! 10 Ann. 889

it “ the Convent." Laborde explored this island. crossin to it by a
raft, which he and his companion. M. Linant, rowed with pa m-branches
for ours: and they planted the French ﬂag on a rock, and thus took
possession of a place which had been deserted since the fourteenth
century. The Crusaders fortiﬁed it; and their walls remain. My
note of its appearance on the 14th of last March is, “the island of
Graia uprose brown from the blue waters ;—two brown eminences,
with brown fortiﬁcations upon them."

On our arrival at the head of the Gulf, (I think, about an hour before
reaching our tents.) we had fallen into the great Hadj route—the broad
trodden way by which the annual caravan proceeds to Mekkeh. As we
rounded the head, of course we had the sea on our right hand : and on
the left was the plain of Akaba.—the end of the great Wadee Araba
which extends hither from the Dead Sea, and which is supposed to
have been once the channel of the Jordan, in the days when it ﬂowed
uninterruptedly from its fountains in Anti-Libanus to discharge itself
into this Gulf, before that convulsion which caused it to be lost in the
Dead Sea: This plain looked very barren,-—stretchiug in between ap-
proaching lines of mountains; and its soil is too salt, for two or three
miles inland, to grow anything but a few stunted bushes. [n the neigh-
borhood of our tents, we observed a few inclosures; but saw no houses
that night. There were people in abundance, however, ﬁlling our
little camp, which was considered so far from safe, in the absence of
the rest of the caravan, that no less than eight guards were appointed
for the night. This was arranged with the Governor of Akaba and that
important personage, Sheikh Hussein, on whom so much of our fate
was to depend for some weeks to come. They came just when we
ladies had dropped asleep while waiting for our late dinner, and thus
we missed seeing them. They had pipes and coffee in the gentleman’s
tent, where they gave an impression of being both‘grasping, and in one
another's interest. How it turned out with regard to the Sheikh, we
shall have abundant occasion to see.

In the morning of the 15th, we were up and in the sea before sun-
rise ;-—the clear, soft, warm sea! How beautiful our place of encamp-
ment was, under the palms upon the shore! While we were dress-
ing. we heard that two of the gentlemen had arrived,--a deputation
from the parties behind, that no time might be lost in pursuing the
negotiation with the Sheikh about going to Petra. When I came out
of our tent, I found one of these gentlemen writing his journal on the
shore—alter his long ride, and. before breakfast! There he sat on the
shingle, book on knees. ink-horn before him,a fine example of energy!

The rest of the caravan might be seen, a little moving knot of ob-
jects, on the opposite shore. Miss C.’s ﬂoating white veil told who they
were. While we were at breakfast in the open air, they came up,
heated and hungry,—glad of anything we could give them till their
own meal could be prepared.

After breakfast, I wrote my journal in our tent; but found it so hot
that when I had done, and wanted to read Laborde, I looked about for
some shady place near. where I might have the advantage of any air
Page-342
340 turns Lira.

that might be stirrin . I found a very small shaded noolr under a wall,
close at hand; and t ere I carried camp-stool, boolt, and a double um-
brella. to moderate the light. The camp-stool and my feet sank into
the deep sand. which was yet cool: I lowered my umbrella, so as to
shut out all ob'eets, and there I sat—my imagination bein presently
as much at em as my bodily frame was at Akaba. % was ﬁrst
startled by the ﬂapping of something scarlet on the sand. under the
edge of my umbrella: and amazed, indeed, I was at sight of what the
umbrella had hidden from me. Within a yard of me eat the Council,
smoking away in full and solemn negotiation. The scarlet belonged
to Sheikh Hussein himself; his robe was of scarlet cloth over a stri
crimson and yellow tunic of satinet. He wore a prodigious shawl
turban. lowering over his extraordinary face. At the ﬁrst iercing look
he ﬁxed upon me. I felt that it was a face which would unt me for
life. He sat with his back against the wall, pouring out incessant
clouds of smoke, and attended y his son, his pipe-bearer, and other
vassals. Our dragoman was in waiting. In front of the Sheikh sat
the deputation of the “mum—three ntlemen on campcsteols. look-
ing as excessively solemn as they can d. As I found myself there, I
thought I might as well stay; and very interesting I found the scene.—
One spectacle which I thought exceedingly pretty throughout the East,
was the earnestness and grace of the interpreters. Here was Alec.—
sometimes in his eagerness. dropping on one knee, sometimes grasping
the Sheikh’s hand with his own left, while he laid down his meaning
upon it with the right: at other times using the most vehement action,
and then the most persuasive tones ;—now following the Sheikh's move-
ments in unconscious imitation, and now listening with his whole soul
to his employers' statements ;—it was a charming picture: and the he.
gotiation this morning was of such importance that I saw the spectacle
to rfection.

hat passed at this time was as followsz—Out of the Sheikh‘s thou-
sand camels, he could not collect and select the requisite number for our
caravan in less than seven days: and for this we were. of course, un-
willing to wait: so he and Bishara were to take us on with nearly our
present set to Petra in three da 3. Others were to meet us there,.for
the transit of the rest of the esert to Hebron, which would occupy
about seven days from Petra. We were to stay a few days at Petra.
The sum demanded was 20!. a head to Hebron, including eve thin ,—
an insurance of ourselves and our pro rty. haksheesh, and e tri ute
to the Sheikh at Petra. Two-thirds o the sum was to be paid at once,
and the rest at Hebron. Ales told us that Hussein would by this make
not more than 2!. or 3La head, as he had to pay ﬁve sheikhs to go with
us, guards, and the subsistence of his camels and men. We were to
set out the next morning.

We were warned that there might yet be a hitch: and so it proved:
and not one, but many. I little thought ever to have witnessed the
working of any passion in such perfection as I saw that of avarice in
Shaikh Hussein, up to the last moment before our parting at Hebron.
He cannot help himself now. To this passion he is a slave, every day,
Page-343
no: strut 'ro stun. 341

every hour. His life, his mind, his countenance are ravaged by it. The
whole intensity of the Arab character,—an intensity which in others is
divided among the objects and affections of their livesf—their families,
their camels, their enemies, their religion, and their desert wilds,—is
in him concentrated upon gain ; and a terrible spectacle it is.—Not to
trouble the reader with all the changes which took place in the course
of this day, when the old man returned repeatedly to the charge, to see
what more he could gen—a circumstance which left us to the last un-
certain whether we should reach Petra or not,—here is the contract as
it ﬁnal] stood.

Shei h Hussein made himself answerable for our safety, and was to
refund the value of any property which might be lost. For the whole
journey to Hebron, except the tribute of 100 piastres (1L) a-head to the
Sheikh of Petra, Hussein was to have 1000 piastres (101.) for each
person, and 250 piastres (21. 103.) for each camel: the whole to be paid
in advance, except the half of the camel money, which was to be paid
at Hebron. To this the gentlemen adhered, through all the demands
made by the Sheikh from day to day; by which demands he obtained
nothing but our disrespect and compassion.

During this day. we looked about us as much as we could. We
were struck here, as everywhere along the shores of the Red Sea.
with the vast quantity of shells thrown up in shoals along the beach,—
from the minutest to some magniﬁcent ones, as lar e as a man’s head.
Many varieties of little crabs were moving in all irections. Swarms
of ellow locusts and handsome dragon-ﬂies ﬂitted about in the sun :
anti, little ﬁsh leaped out of the waters in great numbers.—There are
no boats at Akaba: but men go out ﬁshing on small rafts. To-day the
sea was so calm that we saw them go as far out as the eye could well
follow them. . '

In the afternoon we took a walk so far as to turn the ﬂank of the
palms. There were many inclosures which contained.besides thriving
young palms, ﬁgs, pomegranates. and a prickly tree whose abundant
fruit, new green, is said to be delicious when eaten fresh and ripe.
We passed several water-holes and two shadoofs. There were many
children abroad,-—healthy and clean-looking, and of a free and upright
carriage. '

We walked up to the castle, and, to our surprise, found no difﬁculty
in obtaining entrance. It is a stout fortress, built for the protection
of the Pil rims; with two cannon,—one on the wall, and one in the
court. “in as the place looks outside,—rea|ly imposing.—-we found
it bare and foul within. The magazines are chambers of one story,
built against the walls, all round the court: and their ﬂat roofs support
frailer dwellings, covered with palm leaves. Besides accommodating
the little garrison, there is thus room for the merchandize which comes
this way. and for its guardians: but we pitied those who have to take
up even a temporary abode in a place so squalid and dirty. We were
thankful that we had encamped ontside.-—From the turret where the
cannon is placed, we obtained a ﬁne view, immediatel after the sun
had gone downz—the amphitheatre of mountains’boh' with the area

/"’
Page-344
842 um ms.

of sand between them and us; the palm es between the castle and
the sen—the sea, like a golden lake. an the mountains retiring along
its shores on either hand. With precisely the some natural features,
how much quieter is this scene now than when Solomon's ship-building
was going on!

Before we went to rest,—and it was late before we had the tent to
ourselvesf—the money was paid to the wide-awake Sheikh, the wearied
gentlemen had put away their money-bags. with the hope that they
should never again have so much ado about a bargain, and we had no-
tice that we were to be off by ei h . the next morning. So I made up
my mind to bathe at ﬁve t—my t sea-bath till we should come upon
the Mediterranean at the end of our Eastern travel.

 

CHAPTER VII.
FROM AKABA TO PETRA.

Ws bathed at ﬁve. and breakfasted early, as we had planned; but
we were far from being otf at eight, as the Sheikh had promised.
There was so much disputing among the camel-drivers as to their
shares. and so much unwillingness on the part of some to go among a
strange tribe. for fear of robbery and loss of camels (though the Sheikh
guarantied to them indemnity. and two camels for every one they
might lose). that those hours were consumed in wrangling and noise
which we had hoped would have carried us up the ﬁrst part of Wadee
Arabs before the heat of the day. The Shaikh. all in scarlet, sailed
about. looking very digniﬁed, and pouring out smoke like a chimney,
wherever he moved among the palms. It was ten o'clock before we
mounted ; and we were almost hungry again by that time, and as weary
with the hubbub of the last four hours as with a day‘s journey.

We left the inclosures of Akaba on our left hand, and the palms,
and the exquisite blue sea. which narrowed to aline, and then was lost.
After that, the way was dreary enough ; more so than any region we
had yet passed through :—a sandy valley, at least two miles wide. with
high and sharp-cut mountains for boundaries on either hand. There
was something ﬁne. however. in the inﬁnite desert before us, lost in
haze and distance, and sometimes rising in an immeasurable slope
tufted with little tamarisks and thorny acacias.

It seemed to-day as if our desert freedom was all over. Hitherto,
[had kept by myself as much asl pleased; and every true desert-
traveler needs and chooses, if possible, to ride alone. With the sole
precaution of net'er losing sight of the whole of the company‘I had
pushed forward. or lingered behind. or wandered away on either hand
at my own pleasure. But to—day we found, to the great concern of
many of us, that we were to have this liberty no longer. We were
drilled into order like so many recruits. If two or three of us were
riding half a quarter of a mile on either hand, the Sheikh came or sent
Page-345
I

no! suns To earn. 348

alter us, to drive us back to the troop» This added much to the weari-
someness of the journey; and the more because no one of us, I’ rather
think, believed that there really was any danger from foes: and we did
not yet know Hussein well enough to consider that his sins of rapacity
miglét be the cause of dangers which we need not otherwise appre-
hen .

Hussein, his son, a ﬁne youth of sixteen, and the inferior sheikhs,—of
whom, I think, there were three,—careered about us on pretty, active
little horses :—or horses which looked small beside the camels. The
sheikhs carried spears ; and were something red or green about their
dress which gave them a distinguished appearance. The escort wore
the true desert head-covering, which our own servants adopted now in
traveling,—the handkerchief carried, not in the form of a turban, but
let down over the head, so that its four corners and fringes shade the
face and neck, or ﬂoat in the wind ;—the handkerchief being bound on
the head with a rope, or a skein of yarn. We had forty armed guards,
independently of the camel drivers. Ten of them marched in front.
and ten at a considerable distance on either hand ;—on a rising ground,
when there was any; and always on the look-out. The remaining
ten were with us,—oﬂ' duty. They were of the Alaoueen tribe :—a
much grander tribe,—much richer in camels and herds,—than that of
our good Bishara. But 0! how much better did we like him. with
his bright face and genial spirit, than the immaculed great Hussein !—
It was so hot to-day, and we had been so early tired, that we were not
sorry when, at half-past three, Hussein leaped from his horse, and struck
his spearin the ground, as a signal that here we were to encamp.——It
was in a bare and exposed place too, where our tents were pitched too
close together to allow us any feeling of privacy. '

We were now certainly on the track of the Hebrews. and should be for
the greater part, or all of the rest of the way. It was by this wadee that
they came down after being turned back into the wilderness from Ka-
desh, and then refused a passage through Edom. They left Aaron
dead on Mount Hor, and then came down by this Wadee Araba to the
sea, to get round to the east of Idumaaa. More weary than ever must
they have been of the Desert, after having been to the very borders of
the Promised Land, and sent back thence all this weary way into the
waste.

Having seen no one this day, we were permitted rather more liberty
on the next. The sheikhs atill galloped about, scouring the sandhills,
and darting hither and thither among the bushes when we wound along
a gully, for the sake of its scraps of shade. I must say, we looked
rather like a company of banditti at such times, creeping along, as if in
hiding under the covert of the shrubs. between the sandhills,—-a swarthy
savage with his matchlock peeping up, every now and then. to see if
all was clear to the horizon.—-0nce or twice in the day’s ride, the
Sheikh dismounted, and took possession of the best shade; and we
found him, when we came up, enjoying his chibouque, with his son
and attendants standing round him. This was a signal that we were
to await the arrival of the last baggage camel : and I usually took ad-
Page-346
344 man's.

vantage of the opportunity to walk on for an hour or two. though the
heat was now so excessive that I was warned to cover my head a
carefully as the Arabs do. and to wear a thick white cotton cap under
my hat, during the noon hours. The gentlemen’s broad-brimmed gray
hats were covered with white; and they carried handkerchiefs in the
crowns.

To-day we had experience of! the Khamsin. When the heat had
become so intolerable that all moved forward silently in dull patience.
—some perhaps with a secret wonder whether they should ever breathe
easily, or feel any muscular strength again,—a strong wind sprang up
suddenly from the south. Though it was as hot as a blast from an
oven. and carried clouds of sand with it. I must say I felt it a great re-
lief. I was aware that the sensation of relief could not last; for the
drying quality of this wind was extraordinary, and immediately felt
upon the skin. Still, the sensations under the evaporation were those
of relief for the moment;a and before they were over, we stopped, and
could get under the shelter of our tents. The thirst which this wind
caused was of course great; but we had plenty of water and on
I was surprised, after all I had read. to see how like thick fog an at-
mosphere full of sand can be. The sand was not coarse enough to be
felt pattering upon the face, though it accumulated in the folds of one's
dress: but it ﬁlled the air so completely as to veil the sunshine. and to
hide altogether the western boundary of the wadee, and all before us.
The eastern mountains, near whose base we were traveling. rose dim
and ghostly through this dry hot haze. We were to have proceeded to
Wadee Gharendel, where there' Is a small spring and a palm or two;
but this wind caused us to halt sooner, for the advantage of a shelter-
in sandhill

6 passed Wadee Gharendel the next morning, not more than half
an hour from our resting-place. Its single palm, ugly In itself, looked
well standing as sentinel at the entrance of the narrow pass.

My camel was insufferable to-day : and I walked many miles. pne-
ferring thirst to having my back bmken by my uneasy and uncertain
camel. Sinceleaving Akaba, we had found our camels more and more
troublesome from their obstinacy in stooping to every twig of tamarisk
and acacia they could get a sight of. Instead of pacing steadily on, as
in the peninsula, they would make a rush at every bush, right or left,
and poke down their heads, every few minutes, to crop something,—
each poke throwing the rider into a very uneasy position. We did not
yet know that our villainous Shaikh had brought no food for either
camels or their drivers. He trusted to our compassion for the feeding
of the men. and to the Desert shrubs for the subsistence of the beasts.
0n the second day. the lagging began—And now. on the third, we
were to have reached Petra In the afternoon: but on both evenings the
Sheikh had stopped early. on some pretence; and so he did this night:
the real cause being that the camels were too weak from hu er to go
through a proper day’s journey. We were not experienczd euoug h
yet. however, to discover all this; and it was a week more before we
became fully aware of Hussein’s iniquity. All I knew at present was
Page-347
no: man so "was. 945.

that my camel went very uneasily, and that it was a less evil to walk
when I could. » -

The only way in which I was permitted to walk was a rather strange
one. Imust not wander in the least: and the slowness of the bag-
gage camels was intolerable, as they grew weaker. So I used to alight
when in the rear of the caravan which came to extend over a space of
from half a mile to a mile. I walked'forward to the ﬁrst bit of shade
I could ﬁnd in advance of the troop, and sat down till all had passed ;
and then walked forward again. This day we had left the‘ sand, and
were on hard ground, and amidst the glare and deep shadow of rocks.
At two o’clock. Mount Hor became visible before us; and to the north-
east. a sea of mountains. among which we were to find Petra.—Some
of the party began to be much displeased with the Sheikh when he
stopped us before three o’clock. instead of bringing us near to Petra.
His excuse was that we were entering among the mountains, and that
he could not ﬁnd a place for our encampment further on. He had now
failed of his promise about distances everyday: and it was clear that
for some purpose he was protracting our journey.

Thus far, we had seen no living creature since leaving Akaba. This,
which appeared wonderful when we expressly reminded one another
of it. seemed natural enough at the time. Before our Desert travel was
done. we found how much more striking and impressive it is to en-
counter men in the Desert. than to pass many days without seeing one.

We had not yet been distressed for want of water; though some of
the party now began to look ruefully at what was offered us to drink.
It was certainly rather reddish in color. and a good deal too warm.
though Abasis kindly took care to hang the skin which was next to
come into use on 'the shady side of his camel.

0n the morning of Friday. March 19th, we were six hours from
Petra: and now the least sanguine of our party began to believe that
we really should stand within that wonderful place. I was still pos-
sessed with the idea I always had of Petra ;—the image I had formed
from reading Laborde and others; that Wadee Mouss was a ravine,—
a long and narrow ravine, which was ﬂanked and surmounted by ex~
cavated rocks. and to which there was only the entrance. When. at
night, I looked back upon my morning notion of Petra, it was like
looking back from middle age to one's teens.

We were under weigh by six o’clock, and were presently among
passes of wild fantastic mountains. In a glen. we came upon some
oleanders. springing vigorously, and some wild ﬂowers. The ground
was damp in patches, and there was dew upon the weeds. Never be-
fore did dewdrops look so bright to us. The rocks here were in lower-
ing masses, appearing distinct from each other, and most fantastic in
their colors and surfaces. I should not have believed that any purely
natural tinting could have been too bright for the eye of the lover of na-
ture; but here. the coloring of the rocks is distressingly gaudy. The
veining of the surface is singular. Every one cried out “ Mahogany l”
and the veining is like that of mahogany: but the colors of this veining
are like nothing to be seen anywhere else z—scarlet, maroon. sky-blue.
Page-348
846 ass-run mu.

white, lilac, black, gray, and green! A stain of sky -blue and gray
winds away in a ground of crimson; and a ribbon of scarlet and white
in a ground of lilac; and so on. The stone is extremely friable,”
that the mere rubbing with the ﬁnger end turns it into dust. The cor-
rosion of the surface of the rocks by time and weather has so much the
appearance of architectural intention, that it is at ﬁrst diﬂicult in Petra
itself to distinguish the worn from the chiseled face of the precipices:
and while approaching Petra, one seems to be perceiving the rudiments
of the wonders of the place to come.

Alternating with these towering precipices, and at times surmounting
them, are rounded eminences which look like downs, both from their
forms and the greenish hue which is spread over them by their being
strewn with the spines of the tamarisk. Tufted with blackish shrubs,
they are not beautiful; but no characteristic of this singular scenery is
more distinctive than the contrast between the gaudy precipices and the
pale mountains behind. At the summit of the ﬁrst steep and slippery
pass, we looked abroad upon a noble view, of the billowy sea of moun-
tains round about us, the partially sunned Desert stretching to the
horizon, the sinuous and tufted wadees looking like desert paths among
the sandhills and nearer rocks, and our camel train winding for a mile
back among the pass and recesses below. We felt ourselves really
now among the haunts of Esau and his tribe, and of the children of
Ishmael, whose hand was against every one, as every one‘s hand was
against them. And when, a little further on, we stopped in a hollow
of the hills to rest, it was strange to remember who came here in later
days, and what an extraordinary depot this was for the merchandizc of
the East, for a course of centuries. Up this pass came long trains. of
camels, laden with the silks. muslins, spices and ivory of India, and
the pearls of Arabia, and amber, gold and apes from Abyssinia, and all
the ﬁne things that the luxury of Europe derived from the far East.
These all came through Petra, and were lodged there for rest, and for
no little trafﬁc, as in a place wholly inaccessible by any foe. The
eagle might pounce upon the kid among the areas of Petra; and the
lightnings might dart down from the summits. But no human enemy
could enter to steal, or arrow from human hand to destroy. Up this
pass then had wound many a caravan laden with oriental wealth; and
in this hollow had rested perhaps many a company in ambush, and no
doubt many a baﬁled foe. Those single trees, perched on fantastic
heights, were some of them old enough to have been liVing in those
days, landmarks to the traveler, and signal stations to the desert war
nor.

Then our path—our very narrow path. lay over these whitish hills,
now up, now down; and then again we were slipping or jerking down
slopes or steps of gaudy rock. About eleven o ’,clock [saw the ﬁrst
excavation,—a square door-way In a pile of white rock on the right
hand. Finding that we were not to arrive by the entrance which La-
borde declares to be the only oue,—the Sik. —l determined not to dis~
mount, in order to ascertain ywhether there really was more than one
entrance practicable for beasts of burden. I entered Petra ﬁrst, (after
Page-349
no: anus To run. 847

the guide.) and can testify to the practicable character of this entrance,
as Idid not alight till we reached the platform above the water-course.

Petra might be said to begin from that ﬁrst excavation. For nearly
an hour longer we were descending the pass, seeing ﬁrst, hints at fa-
cades, and then, more and more holes clearly artiﬁcial. Now red pop-
pies and scarlet anemones and wild oats began to show themselves in
corners where there was a deposit of earth; yet the rocks became
more and more wild and stupendous, while, wherever they presented a
face, there were pediments and pilasters, and ranges of door-ways, and
little ﬂi hts of steps scattered over the slopes. A pair of eagles spran
out, an sailed over head, scared by the noise of the stran ers: and
little birds ﬁew abroad from their holes. sprinkling their smal shadows
over the sunny precipices. Nothing gave me such an idea of the vast-
ness of the scale of everything here as those little birds and their sha-
dows. What a life it must have been,—that of the men of old who
gathered their comforts about them in such homes as these, and led their
daily course among these streets and areas of Nature's making, where
the echoes, still busy as ever, mingled the voices of men with the
scream of the eagle and the gush of the torrent! What a mixture of
wild romance with the daily life of a city! It was now like Jinnse
land; and it seemed as if men were too small ever to have lived here.
Down we went, and still down, among new wonders, long after I had
begun to feel that this far transcended all I had ever imagined. 0n the
right hand now stood a column, standing alone among the ruins of
many, while on the left were yet more portals in the precipice. so high
up that it was inconceivable how they were ever reached. The longer
we stayed, and the more mountain temples we climbed to, the more I felt
that the inhabitants, among their other peculiarities, must have been
winged. At length, we came down upon the platform above the bed
of the torrent, near which stands the only ediﬁce in Petra.

This platform was sheltered on two sides by rocks: and as my eye
became accustomed to the confusion, I could make out, among the
masses of building stones which lay between it and the empty water-
course below, the lines of ﬁve terraces, and, at last, the piers of many
bridges. This platform was thickly grown over with same plant of
the lily kind :—we think. the red amaryllis, which must richly adorn
the area when in blossom. Our servants pitched our tents here, in
opposition to the Sheikh, who would have had us take up our abode
in the caves, to save the expense of watchers. We much preferred,
however, the cleanliness and airiness of our tents, and the lily carpet
which pushed its leaves under their curtains, and stretched under our
beds. The ﬁrst thing Alec showed us was a scorpion, which he
brought with the tongs from our tent.—a. hideous, yellow, venomous-
looking creature, about two inches long. Two more were found in
another tent.

We were seriously desired not to move a step from our platform
without guards and companions; and we had quite enough to look at
for the present in the faces of the extrordinary precipices which walled
us in. I spread my cloak on a rocky shelf, where I could quietly
Page-350
348 ‘ amass ms.

overlook the preparations for our abode of some days in this place
which I had never hoped to reach. I did not laugh now when Mr. Y
said to me. “ Well, how do you like being at Petra i"

 

CHAPTER VIII.
PETRA.

We lost no time in beginning our researches. We were to be here
at least three days; but we were as impatient to look about us as if we
must merely pass through, as poor Burckhardt did. The ﬁrst thing I
did was to ascertain the direction of the stream, in-order to understand
Laborde’s plan: for he gives no compass points. Having done this,
and examined our platform and what I could see from it, I was pre-
sently clear as to the following particulars.

The site of Petra is not a ravine, as we had been wont to suppose;
but a considerable basin, completely closed in by rocks; sufﬁciently
ventilated, however, by the chums and deﬁles left in the precipices.
The area is of undulating ground, there being scarcely a level spot any-
where, beyond our platform. 7

The stream, dry except in winter, must have been a considerable
river in former times—for depth, though not for width. At present, it
is either a ﬁtful brook, ﬂowing shallow over white sand, and among
bushes and weeds; or it is a rushing torrent, which presently spends
its force, and leaves the channel dry. As [said before. the channel was
dry when we were there. In old times, its depth was considerable, as is
shown by the remains of the embankments, and piers of the bridges: and
there can be little doubt of its constant ﬂow in those times. At present,
the stream is diverted, some way above, to irrigate a fertile district,
leaving the torrent dependent on the rains on the nearer mountain.

It seemed clear to me that the whole of the rising ground, on each

bank of the river, as high on our side as the single standing pillar, was
.formerly terraced. I believe I traced ﬁve terraces on our side; and
there may have been a good many more. Some large building, with a
colonnade towards the river, stood on our platform. The bases of many
columns are visible; and others lie shattered, with their fragments dis~
posed in the order in which they fell. The quantity of building stones
lyingd heaped on both banks is greater than can be described or esti-
mate . '

The only remaining ediﬁce in Petra is that called Pharaoh's Palace ;
—a rather vulgar building, Roman in its style. and adorned with stucco
garlands. It is cracked and mouldering, and will not last long. It was
very near our platform. We may consider as belonging to it a Tri-
umphal Arch standing between it and our tents. These are all in the
way of buildings. But it was immediately clear to me that little is re-
maining also of the rock-abodes, in comparison with what once existed.
Ithinlt that travelers have not only much underrated the number of
Page-351
runs. 349

rock-dwellers, but failed to perceive that what remain are the. mere
debris of what the precipices once presented to view. An observant
eye may detect remnants of stucco ornaments very high up many rocks,
and in great numbers. Again, many of the excavations are so diﬁcult
to reach. and some are such mere walls or surfaces, that it appears as
if the whole from of the rock, to a considerable depth, had fallen : and
in these places there was usually that extraordinary gaudiness of color-
ing which marks the more friable portions of the rock;—that is, those
portions where, exposure to the air having begun, the oxide of iron in
the rock carries on the decomposition. In these places, a ﬁnger end
will bring down whole handfuls of sand. Where the rock is dun-co-
lored, the surface is usually well hardened. Again, the conduits, cis-
terns, and ﬂights of steps scattered over the rocks and among the preci-
pices indicate a larger number of rock dwellings than remain new—
very great as that number Is.

And how very great it is! I began with a notion that I should like
to count them; having read that they were about two hundred. With
this two hundred running in my head (as one never gets over believing
what one reads) I continued for some days to think of these rock-abodes as
computable by hundreds, till I was startled by hearing one of the gende-
men wonder how many thousands there were. We were sitting on a rock
at the moment: and as he pointed up two or three ravines, counting the
holes In a single rock face. and reminded me how small a proportion
these bore to the whole, I was indeed astonished. I could not admit
the full extentof the marvel at the moment: but I soon saw that he was
right. Dr. Robinson says,’ “The most striking feature of the place
consists, not in the fact that there are occasional excavations,and sculp-
tures like those above described; but in the innumerable multitude of
such excavations. along ‘the whole extent of perpendicular rocks adja-
cent to the main area, and in the lateral valleys and chasms; the en»
trances of very many of which are variously, richly, and often fantasti-
cally decorated, with eveIIy imaginable order and style of architecture.
The cliﬁ's upon the cast an west present the largest and most continuous
surfaces; and here the tombs are most numerous. But the spur from
the eastern cliﬁ‘s . . . as well as other smaller spurs and promontories,
and single groups of rocks, both in the north and south, are also occupied
in like manner. All these sepulchres,of course, looked down upon the
city of the living , but others again are found In retired dells and secret
chasms, or sometimes among the heights on either side,to which ﬂights
of steps cut in the rock lead up in several places. " Dr. Robinson’ s
conclusion that these excavations were all tombs. excep tthe few which
might have been temples, appeared to us on the spot very extraordinary.
Elsewhere, rock tombs are, or have been, sealed up—contain, or have
contained. dead bodies, and may be counted by dozens to a large city,
each containing many bodies. Here, they are standing wide open; no
dead bod (except of a modern Arab or two) has ever been found in
them, (I they exceed any number of houses that the area of the city

' Biblical Researches, II. 529.
Page-352
3M ass-nan I’Jl'l.

can ever have contained. To these considerations we may add that it
is the common practice of the Arab tribes of the desert to live in caves;
and all their modes of living appear to be aboriginal: and that the scrip-
tural expressions relating to such districts as this speak of habitations as
well as sepulchres. Isaiah speaks of one " that graveth an habitation
for himself in arock:"' and Jeremiah exclaims “Thy terriblsness hath
deceived thee, and the pride of thine heart, 0 thou that dwellest in the
clefts of the rock, that holdest the height of the hill: though thou
shouldest make thy nest as high as the eagle, lwill bring thee down
from thence, saith the Lord.”i Obadiah. again. declares his message
to be “concerning Edom," when he says. “ The pride of thine heart
hath deceived thee, thou that dwellest in the cleft of the rock, whose
habitation is big ; that saith in his heart, “Who shall bring me down
to the ground? Though thou exalt thyself as the eagle. and though
thou set thy nest among the stars, thence will I bring thee down, saith
the Lord”: “There shall not be any remaining of the house of
Esau," the prophet goes on to say: and mournful indeed is the vacuity
now. Every deserted place is moumful enough ;—a grass—grown farm
house in Ireland; a city buried under mounds in Egypt: but nowhere
else is there desolation like that of Petra, where these rock door-ways
stand wide—still lit for the habitation of a multitude, but all empty. and
silent, except for the multiplied echo of the cry of the eagle, or the bleat
of the kid. No—these excavations never were all tombs. In the
morning the sons of Esau came out in the ﬁrst sunshine to worship at
their doors, before going forth, proud as their neighbor eagle‘s. to the
chase: and at night, the yellow ﬁres lighted up from within, tier above
tier, the face of the precipice.

One other feature which immediately struck us, as it must every ob-
server, was the bad style of art wherever any'faeades remain. The
grandeur of the place is not. to my eyes, at all from the ornament
wrought in the rock, or stuck upon it, but altogether from its adoption
as an abode by the ancient tribes of the Desert, and their adaptation of
such a fastness to their purposes. There is a strong taint of colonial
vulgarity in all the Roman work; and in looking at it, our wonder was
something very different from admiration.

Such were the cursory observations we could make from our plat-
form. But we soon went further. As soon as we had lunched. and
collected a few of our armed Arabs as a guard, we set out in a body to
make a general survey, in preparation for further research to-morrow.
We turned off our platform at the right-hand (north-eastern) corner
above the stream. and descended into the valley which is overhung by the
Corinthian Tomb. as it is called, and other conspicuous excavations. The
water-course and lower grounds in this valley were thickly grown with
oleanders, all the way.—We passed the Theatre, the ao-called Egyp-
tian tombs, and a large number of unmarked excavations. pausing no-
where till we came to the Khasne.

Burckhardt calls this temple§ “one of the most elegant remains of

' Isaiah XXII. 16. 1’ Jeremiah XLIX. 16. I Obadiah 4.
5 Travels in Syria and the Holy 14nd, p. 424.
Page-353
nm. 851

antiquity existing in Syria:" and other travelers have spoken raptu-
rously of it. I think much of the charm must be owing to their hav-
ing come suddenly upon it from the deﬁle of the Silt, after an anxious
and toilsome Desert journey, when every work of art, in a shady place,
and among thickets of oleanders, would appear beautiful. Its posi-
tion is wonderfully ﬁne; and its material and preservation very strik—
ing: but it is inconceivable how any one can praise its architecture.
This temple, called by the Arabs “ Pharaoh’s Treasury," is absolutely
set in a niche. It stands in a cupboard, seeming to be made to ﬁt it
exactly. When I speak of its situation being wonderfully ﬁne, I do
not refer to this feature of it, which is good merely because it is una-
voidable,—there being no space in which a building could be placed in
these ravines. This peculiarity.—-of a facade in a niche—is imposing
in its place: but the beauty of its position lies in its being at the meet-
ing point of two ravines, so that the Khasne suddenly confronts the
traveler who arrives by way of the Silt. The material is a pale rose-
colored stone, which is shown of most delicately by the dark shrubs
which grow before it.

The height of the entire facade is between sixty and seventy feet.
Of the six columns, one has fallen; and the bases and capitals of others
are somewhat corroded. Above, there is an uninterrupted pediment.
between whose halves stands an “ insulated cylinder." as Burckhardt
calls it; a sort of miniature temple, crowned with the urn which the
Arabs believe to contain Pharaoh’s treasure. They cannot bring them-
selves to pass it without a shot; and every man of them, unless pre-
vented. pops away at the urn, in hope of bringing down some of the
gold from the inside. There are elaborate carvings of garlands, &c..
and many defaced has-reliefs. From what remains of these, we judg-
ed them to have been bad.—The interior has nothing to show but
handsome space, the principal chamber being sixteen paces square, and
about twenty-ﬁve feet high.—-A few broad steps lead to the ponies, on
either hand of which is an ornamented door. leading to an empty side-
chamber. There is nothing in the main chamber: throughout the
whole building, no niche, or pit, or other sign of the place having been
put to any use. There are two small hollows, in which we fancied
we saw uncertain traces of bus-reliefs : but the place is obviously un-
ﬁnished. There are no door-posts; and the walls within are merely
chiseled, and left rough.—In the near neighborhood of this temple,I
saw several ﬂights of steps, wandering away up the precipices. We
went but a few yards along the Silt, as we were to explore it fully to-
morrow; so we returned ﬁrst to the Theatre.

The Theatre !—in the place where Esau and his tribe came to live
beside the eagles! Here it was, however; its ranges of semi-circular
seats cut out of the rock. Its area is supported by massive masonry.
and not so encumbered with debris and vegetation as to prevent our
easily reaching the seats. I climbed to the top. in order to enter some
of the excavations ranged above,—at a great height. I found them
mere square cut, empty rock-chambers.

When on the top range of the seats of the theatre,I called one or
Page-354
352. nmax Lin.

two of my companions to witness the inaccuracy of the view from this
point, given by Laborde. We were on the precise spot whence the
sketch was taken, as was shown by a number of neighboring objects.
It was the distance that was in fault. Before us rose a lofty barrier of
rock which, of course. closed in the view: but in Laborde we have, in
place of this rock, a ﬁne retiring distance, and long perspective of fa-
cades, and a spacious valley with a meandering river. such as was
never yet seen in Petra. It is a serious matter giving false impres-
sions of a place at once so remarkable and so little visited as this. In
marking, in his plan,'the Sik as “ the only entrance to the town,” La-
borde may have followed Diodorus, who says there was but one way
in, and that artiﬁcial: though he should not have repeated this without
verifying it: but the elaborate view, with its non-existent valley and
stream, is a gratuitous piece of misleading, for which I see no excuse.

The effect is ﬁne of the lofty rock springing straight up from the
back range of seats. Shallower steps than the seats run up the mid-
dle. This theatre is supposed to have seated about three thousand

eople.

p We next crossed the deﬁle, and climbed to the extraordinary exca-
vation whose platform is supported by ranges of arches in solid mason-
ry. The obtaining a platform was clearly the object here; and prodi-
gious labor it has cost, in. tier over tier of stone arches. Several of
these are entire and visible, amon the heaped ruins of others. The
platform supports lateral colonna es,—the only lateral colonnades here.
Above these colonnades were deep square holes, which indicated ex-
cavations on a second story behind. At least, we supposed so; and
there were clearly upper chambers in the central portion of this tem-
ple : above these, above cornices. and pediment, and at a vast height.
was the crowning urn. The central chamber is very large, and not
less than forty feet high. Its walls are like those of the Khasne, merely
chiseled: and it contains nothing but the little partition walls which
the modern Arabs have built up of loose stones. The walls were gay
with the purple. red, and gray streaks which Dr. Robinson compares
to “ watered silk,”—as our companions did to mahogany.

While we were here, a series of strange wild heads popped up from
below the platform—showing that the ragged regiment of the Sheikh
of Petra was upon us. Suleiman, Shaikh of .Wadee Mouse, and of the
tribe Aulad Benee Israelrwas here in person. His followers were a
dark and wild-looking set of fellows, with their ready match-locks,
daggers and spears, as could be seen: but they never did us any harm,
nor oﬂ'ered any. The Sheikh came to demand his fee of [00 piastres
per head, for our entrance into Petra and abode there: and this being
immediately paid, he was thankful and quiet. How diﬁ'erent a state
of»things from that which existed so lately as the visits of Burckhardt,
and Captains Irby and Mangles!

This evening. our friend Hussein suddenly remembered that he had
forgotten two things. He had shown himself very expert, from day to
day, in so visiting the tents, and making demands of the dragomen, as
to obtain his coﬂ‘ee and tobacco from our company, and charcoal and
Page-355
ems. 358

et ceteras from the servants. He now went the round to declare that
he had forgotten to say that he must have a robe,(uo triﬂe!) from each
tent, and a sheep from each individual of the company :—ten robes,
and ﬁfteen sheep. He got nothing by remembering this at last.

It had been cool weather all day: and this evening and night, it was
so chilly that we sat in our cloaks, and slept ill from cold.—0nr good
Bishara came to bid us farewell, and would not be satisﬁed without re-
peatedly kissing all the gentlemen. One, who was stooping over his
writing, altered the top of his tarboosh for the salute, but was not al-
lowed to escape so. As for us ladies, we gave our hands to he kissed
with hearty good will; for we esteemed the worthy fellow, and were
sorry to part—In the morning, he was still there; but after we went
forth to the Slk, we saw him no more.

We were to have set forth at half-past seven: but we were detained
an hour by the disputes among the Arabs about the division of their
money.—As far as the Khasne. we went over the same ground as yes-
terday: and then we entered the Sik,—the most extraordinary entrance
to a capital city, from its indomitable wildness, that was probably ever
seen. This main street of Petra is about two miles long. Its width
varies from ten to thirty feet; and it is enclosed between perpendicular
rocks which spring to a height of from one hundred to seven hundred
feet. These are singular conditions of a main street. It is paved and
drained, but badly lighted, for the rocks so nearly meet as to leave,
really and truly, only that “ strip of sky” which one often reads of,
but which I never remember to have before seen, ex'cept in being drawn
up out of a coal-pit. Captain Mangles speaks of the sky being com-
pletely hidden in places by the overlapping rocks above: but this
escaped my observation. The dimness. however, at the bottom of
this chink, where we were forcing our way among the tamarisks, wild
ﬁgs, and oleanders, was memorable enough.—'l'he pavement is of large
slippery stones. worn in places into ruts by ancient chariot wheels. A
conduit runs along, and a little above, the wayside.—a channel hol-
lowed in the rock: and in parts there are, at the height of thirty feet,
earthen pipes for the conveyance of water. 0n the face of the preci-
pices, sometimes upright as a wall for three hundred feet, are curious
marks left by more ancient men than those who paved the street, and
laid the water pipes :—shallow niches, and the outlines and ﬁrst cut-
tings of pediments; and tablets begun and discontinued. 0n looking
up, one sees a solitary tree, bending over the ravine from a height
which makes a mere bush of it. In the ﬁssures of the rock spring
brambles, the bright green caper plant. and ﬁg trees with translucent
young leaves, and roots and stems which accommodate themselves to
the crevices by inconceivable twists. Down the water-drips hang
bunches and strings of delicate ferns; and round the smooth curve of
some protruding rock lies an ivy garland, pushed forth from the recess
behind which is curtained with it. The homely mallow, the wild ge-
ranium and red poppy, spring in corners where there is a deposit of
earth, and skirt much of the way; and the pale blue forget-me-not lurks
in the hollows under the shrubs where there was lately a pool. On

23
Page-356
35‘ EASTERN LIFE.

ledges above one’s head are heaped stones in such quantities as show
how ﬁercely the torrent drives through this pass after the winter rains:
a liability which was, of course, guarded against when this was a capi-
tal city.

In the proudest of those days, there must have been an indomitable
wildness in this main avenue :—almost as much as now ;—almost as
much when the commerce and the pleasure of the city passed through
it.—on the backs of camels from the East, or in chariots from Rome.—
as now when a party from far England was stumbling among its débn'l,
full of wonder and baﬂled speculation. The sharp lights and deep
shadows must have been the same then as now; and the gay hues of
the rocks. Were the sky-high trees and rock-weeds there! and the
eagle spreading his wings on his eyrie, as I saw them to—day? And
did the small birds roost in the holes of the precipice, and speckle it
with their shadows as they ﬂew! And did the singing bird,—war—
bling to-day like the ni htingale of the plate—ﬁnd. a natural perch
within the city gates? ow strange must have been the strong echoes
of city noises in this gorge l—the cry of the camel drivers, the rattle of
chariots, the common talk and laugh of citizens, and the play of chil-
dren! And what diﬁ'erent people must have been met there from the
few we saw today! Instead of eastern merchants and Roman soldiers.
and a Greek traveler or two. I saw to-day a group of goats and their
herdsmen, entering into the deepest shadow from a reach of sunshine;
and a child standing with two kids on‘ a point of rock above my head;
and a wild troop of shaggy Arabs, cluttering their arms as I passed;
and here and there a solitary ﬁgure, with his matchloek, brown tunic,
and white teeth, perched on a pinnacle.or striding over a distant slope.
——These features of wildness carried me back far beyond the Roman
and Greek times; back to the days when the children of Ishmael and
Isaac married. and settled their posterity here. Further back than
this we cannot go; for we know nothing of the Horims who were
driven out from hence by Esau. But Esau, and his wife, the daugh-
ter of Ishmael. and her brother Nebajoth. and his descendants the Na-
batheans were probably not unlike the wild Arab goat-herds and
hunters we met to-day, except that they carried bows instead of match-
loclts. Their other arms, their dress, face, and form were probably
much the same as we saw. We had only to fancy them multiplied
and inhabiting the holes in the rock; and we might put the last three
thousand years of the world‘s history out of sight.

After exploring above a mile and a half of this winding deﬁle, we
came to a narrow part where an arch springs from side to side at a
great height; an arch whose purpose is unknown, as it appears im-
possible to ascend to it. It is too narrow to have been a bridge, and too
steep to have been an aqueduct. This arch is the most striking object
in Petra to a hasty observer: and almost every modern traveler before
ourselves was necessarily a hasty observer. Such a city-gate was pro-
bably nowhere else ever seen. Beneath the arch, on either side. is an
empty niche. and pilasters much defaced; and on the eastern side is a
second. smaller niche. A little further on is the entrance to the pass,
Page-357
nm. 855

-—a sharp-cut passage between perpendicular rocks. A little thicket
of wild ﬁgs and oleanders nearly shrouds the entrance: beyond which
rises, on the opposite side of a small area, a massive wall of masonry,
supporting a platform, on which might have stood a fort. Here the
excavations again begin to abound; and‘for about a mile, we had all
about us white rocks, squared into towers, hollowed into vaults, and
cut outinto abodes and baths consisting of many chambers, and adorned
with pediments, and in one instance, with four small pyramids springing
from the architrave. The rock chambers which are crowned with
these pyramids appeared to us to be baths; at least, the lower series;
for there are two stories. The lower stories have to be reached by a
elamber, far from easy, to the base of a ﬂight of wide shallow steps,
out in a rock too smooth to aﬁ'ord a footing otherwise. In the principal
lower chamber is a deewin extending round three sides, and ascended
by two steps at each extremity. From a lateral chamber, there is a
window looking into a dark apartment, so full of little pits as to re4
semble the working vats in a brewery. Travelers have hitherto sup-
posed these to be graves; but we thought them more likely to be baths.
The encroachmeuts of nature upon these try-places of art are curious
to observe. In one chamber near, I remarked -a vigorous nightshade
growing; and from a deep pit sprang a large rig-tree, covered with
green fruit, which was still climbing to the light. In another chamber,
a leaﬁng thorn was the only inhabitant. In every lateral deﬁle of this
suburb of Petra, (as we may call it.) that I entered, there were more,
and still more, excavations—aristocratic abodes for the living or the
dead, retired into aristocratic'retreats. There they were, in ﬁssures
and comers, just disclosed behind the green thickets! -

I saw here, in the outskirts, a substantially built drain, ﬁrst deep cut
in a slope of rock, and then well built with thick sides, and now choked
up with dust and rubbish. And afterwards I observed what appeared
from below to be gutters and spouts. brought across the rocks at the
height of the pinnacles of. the loftiest temples, and down their sides,
as if to carry off from the excavations the waters which would otherh
wise stream down upon them after the rains.

When we came home to rest at noon. we were told that the clergy-
man who had made a great point of being at Jerusalem for Palm Suna
day, would waive his wish, in order not to hurry the rest of the party
from Petra. We were all much obliged to him; and he was himself
well satisﬁed afterwards, when a further knowledge of our Sheikh
and his ways, proved that we could not have reached Jerusalem in
the time proposed.

Our further exploration to-day was near home. We examined the
Triumphal Arch and Pharaoh’s Palace—the only ediﬁces in Petra. as
I have said. They are not worth many words—being Roman, and in
a bad style—the ornamental work of the palace being in stucco, and
very ﬂorid. At the back, the stucco is carried up to successive stone
projections, which form tiers of cornices.in which we saw nothing of
purpose or beauty. By the marks on the walls within, the whole in-
terior seems to have been covered with stucco, little of which, how-
Page-358
056 “max use.

ever, remains. One curious circumstance is, that the arch of a recess
in the innermost chamber has been built through to the back. This.
and the lateral chambers. had a second story; whereas the vestibule
appears to have sprung to the roof.

We now observed so many piers and otherwise unaccountable pro-
jections in the embankments of the watercourse, as to make us sup-
pose the river to have been covered in—the whole water-course vaulted.

While here. my eye was caught by an appearance of large gratings
in the face of the western rocks; and we climbed up a rough and
steep slope to examine them. They remain wholly mysterious to us
all. Small, shallow, irregular holes are cut in the rock at such dis-
tances as to leave a tolerably regular grating: and many of these holes
-so many as to indicate that all were formerly thus treated—are ﬁlled
up with stones. of a different grain from the rock, cemented in, so as
to form a rough surface. The only conjecture I could form is not a
very probable one—that this was done to procure a reliable surface to
work upon—to be afterwards covered with stucco—the rock being here
extremely friable. High up on this western face was what the gentle-
men unanimously declared to be an inscription—but it was impossible
to get nearer to it. to make out the character. Speaking of inscriptions.
I fear we all overlooked one Captain Maugles tells of. on a tablet under
a pediment of one of the temples. the character of which, Mr. ‘Bankes
declared. and proved by comparison with his notes. to be precisely the
same with that of the mysterious inscriptions in Wadee Mo‘kattcb. and
round the base of Horeb. This is an observation of so much import-
ance, that we must hope the next European who visits Petra will look
for this tablet, and bring home a copy of its character. In a cave fur-
ther north than the western precipice. I found the base of a column;
but, as there was none to answer to it, nor any trace of others within
the caverns. this was pronounced to have been placed there by some
“ accident." »

The Shaikh was troublesome this evening about our not going on,
though he had said at Akaba that we might stay amonth at Petr-a1 if
we liked. We were informed that our bread and ale were all con-
sumed; and that the water was half an hour 03'. so that we had to pay
two piastres for every skin that was brought. We were provided with
biscuits and a little porter; so we did not think of moving the sooner
for the,had news.. ,

On Sunday, the ﬂat, after service. we set oﬁ‘ for the temple of El
Deir. In describing the view from the summitof Mount Hor, Captain
Mangles says,“ “In the midst of this chaos of rocks, there rises into
sight one ﬁnished work, distinguished by profuseness of ornament, and
richness of detail. It is the same which has been described as visible
from other elevated points. but which we were never able to arrive at.
It bears N.E. half N. from this spot; but the number and intricacy
of the valleys and ravines which we hoped might have led us to it,
baﬂled all our attempts. No guide was to be found. With the assist-

' Travels in Egypt, in, Chap. VIII.
Page-359
runs. ' 851

slice of the glass,‘we made out the facade to be larger, to all appear-
ance, than that of the temple at the eastern approach,” (the Khasne,)
“and nowise inferior to it in richness and beauty." We were for-
tunate enough to reach this temple; and when we afterwards saw it, as
Captain Mangles did, from Mount Hor, we could well imagine how
tantalizing it must be to a stranger to see it in no other way.

The ascent to it was formerly by a staircase winding up the moon-
ts'i'n‘to the height of [500 feet. We reached the foot of this staircase
by taming in among the Oleander thickets, past Pharaoh‘s Palace, and
pursuing the northern ravine. We found the steps much worn away;
and we had to climb over many a slope of slippery rock: but it was
still a magniﬁcent avenue to a temple. It is well that there was no
question of material in the case: to get the workmen up there must
have been quite enough. The little ﬂights of steps out for the warb-
meu’s sake. to raise them to the summit of their work. had a singular
eﬂ'eet; and these seemed to throw light on the purpose of other short
and odd staircases, twisting hither and thither among other precipices.
I think no one feature of the region struck me so much.

The facade is a good deal like that of the Khasne; but El Deir is
even more unﬁnished. There is some preparation for wings, which
were never cut. There are disks where garlands were to be sculp-
tured; and pedestals, without statutes or urns, and niches left empty.
Some of the party thought the capitals of the pillars were only half
sculptured: but 1 am' not sure that they were not meant to remain as
they are,—a clumsy approach to the Ionic. There‘was a curious
mixture of what we must suppose to be the native architecture with
the Roman; and the result is not at all beautiful. There is only one
chamber, which measures about forty-ﬁve by forty feet, and is nearly
forty feet high. It has an arched recess opposite the entrance; and the
stone mouldings of this arch were fastened on, and not chiseled out of
the rock. Some of these mouldings remain, and show how they came
there. We saw many instances of this attachment of stone decora-
tions; and everywhere, holes for the pins which had fastened them on.

From the ﬁne area in front of this temple. we climbed to another,
higher still, with nothing to remark upon in it, but a niche whose frame-
work was elaborately ornamented. Even here, on this pinnacle in the
deserts of Idumaaa, we encountered the eye-sore of travelers’ names!
Many were scribbled on the compartments of carved stone in this ex-
cavation.—On the platform before the entrance, we found the bases of
many columns. A eolonnade on this high perch must have had a sin-
gular, and perhaps a very ﬁne eﬂ'ect.

We mounted one stage more;—to the summit over the top of this
temple: and thence we had a magniﬁcent view. El Deir was just
below, a yellow temple completely niched in red rocks. Its area,
grown over thick with lilies, looked well: but there was a more re-
markable one near,—at a rather higher elevation, whose circle of hewn
stones and shrubs indicated very clearly that here had been a circus.
How was this possible, unless, as I was sometimes driven to suppose,
the people had wings? Fluted columns, covered thickly with cement,
Page-360
858 nsnsl urn.

lay in fragments beside the circle of stones.—North and east rose the
red rocks which form the material and barrier of the city on that side;
and above 'them swelled the round. whitish mountains which shut in
the whole. Then the View was bounded by rocks, with holes, ﬂights
of steps,and occasional trees,“ far as the south, where towered Mount
Hor, crowned with the tomb of Aaron. Dark peaks arose between us
and it; and from the ravine below was heard the sound of running
waters. Then, as we turned, we seemed to look upon chaos, so tre-
mendous was the confusion of black and brown mountains near, and
yellow heyond,—hare and precipitous to a degree oppressive to the
sense: while half way between them and us, was the most singular
relief that could be found even in this singular place ;—a perfect hob
Initage! An extremely narrow path of rock, with a sheer precipice
on either hand, connected an otherwise isolated summit with the height
on which we stood: and in a face of that summit was a single excava-
tion, which had that narrow bridge and a ﬂight of steps all to itself. I
never saw an abode, for the living or the dead, so utterly solitary as
this.—Beyond all these objects. and spreading away to the south and
west, to the utmost limit of vision, was the Desert,—now streaky, now
shadowy,—all immense and still,--with no marked objects but a faint
hill or two on the furthest horizon, and a chain of hills to the west.
or the piling of the rocks, and the retiring of the ravines near, and of
the chaos of mountains behind, there Is, says my journal, no giving an
idea: nor can there be a hope of preserving such Imagery in its im-
pressiveness. No faculty Is equal to it.

Mr. E. found in a cave, this day, a dried corpse. The Arabs said
there was nothing to be seen there; and they might not know of it:
but there it lay, wrapped in well-woven cotton. There was some ﬂesh
left on the bones,—as dry as they. From the modern sewing in the
joining of the wrapper, we concluded this body to be that of a not very
ancient Arab. In only one other instance did we meet with human
bones :—-we found a heap of them under some regularly laid stones in
a cave of the northern ravine. If these many thousands of excavations
were all tombs, where are all the millions of skeletons gone,—leaving
actually no trace of one single body I—Possibly the bodies may be yet
to be found, in closed receptacles, in some neighboring valley of
Tombs.

This morning, the Shaikh came to get a pipe, under pretence of try-
ing to persuade us to go on to-morrow morning. This evening, he
required us to take on the same number of camels that we broughtfrom
Akaba, though our stores were much reduced. In order not to refuse
everything he asked, we agreed to this. His reason for the request
became plain, as men and camels grew weaker from want of food. so
that it required the same number to do the diminished work—When I
say that we agreed to this and that, I mean that Mr. E. did. By this
time, Mr. E. found himself charged with the whole business of manag-
ing the Sheikh. and arranging the journey affairs, as far as the Euro-
pean party had anything to do with the matter at all. lt was Mr. E.’ s

nowledge of aﬂ‘airs and very ﬁne temper which brought this respon-
Page-361
ram. 359

sibllity upon him. Every one was glad to devolve the business upon
one so capable and so kindly willing. and who had at once proved
himself so steady and so good humored in his management of the old
miser with whom he had to deal. It was very curious and very inte-
resting to see the effect of his manliness and ﬁne temper upon the
Sheikh. The old man mistook the moral dignity for that of high birth
and station; and declared his conviction that Mr. E. was one of the
greatest men in Europe. It was clear that he really did stand in awe
of our friend; and what we should have done without the help of this
awe. we often wondered.

This day, we had no milk and no eggs; and we were warned that
only two fowls were left. We made ourselves quite easy, however,
while we had good mutton and biscuit. It rained this evening. and I
put my hand out of the tent to feel the rain;—the ﬁrst for so many
months! Now it had come. we were to have enough of it.

I was awakened in the night by a slap in the face from my canopy,
which was dancing about from the rocking of the tent. The tent cur-
tains were open, and ﬂapping, as if preparing to take ﬂight. I awoke
Mrs. Y., and we called the servants to look to the tent-pegs, which
they had the greatest diﬁiculty in fastening down, from the strength of
the wind. The dust poured in, till our very bedding was penetrated
by it. Our clothes were draggling on the ground in this dust; and
some of them, with three rolling bottles of wine. were picked up out-
side. Two sets of sleepers in the camp had their tents blown clear
away to some distance. In the morning,l found that dust had lodged
between the pages of our books, and even in the depths of my saddle-
bsgs. There was then intermitting rain. which settled into a deter-
mined down-pour at noon. To me, one of the most observable things
about this rain was its effect upon my own health. For many weeks
I had been very unwell ; and, since leaving Cairo, had suffered from a
tormenting face-ache. Now, before it had rained an hour, I felt won—
derfully relieved ; and the beneﬁt of this rain lasted nearly to Damascus,
where we had more.

Early in the morning, two of us went a short round, happily choos-
ing the water-course for our scene of observation. We descended into
it, and studied the embankments and piers to some distance on either
hand, little knowing how fortunate we were in using the opportunity.
It was evident that there were large and substantially built reservoirs
above the river, near Pharaoh’s Palace. The number of cisterns and
tanks among the rocks, at various heights, we had observed before.

After breakfast. alarge party of us went forth in deﬁance of the
heavy showers, thinking that, once among the eastern temples, we
could ﬂit from cave to cave. and see a great deal with little wetting.
We did see a great deal t but the wetting was complete enough. We
went through the whole range of the great eastern temples. which it
would weary the reader to hear of one by one. In one.—that which
has three tiers of columns. we discovered that the architrave, which
had been stuccoed. was painted in perpendicular stripes.—In several
of these temples, there is an arched recess opposite the entrance; and
Page-362
m 3mm use.

in two or more, we observed niches within this recess. Whether this
looks like urn-burial. or heathen sacriﬁce. people must judge for them-
selves. In two instances only, we found the ceilings divided super-
ﬁcially into compartments. As for the rest, what we found was pits,
stone deewt’tns, and recesses in rows, like stalls in a stable.—The
capitals of the columns and the cornices were fastened on, and not cut
out of the rock; and afterwards stuccoed and painted. In one case.
the rock had failed, near the top of the temple; and the failure was
supplied by masonry, supported on an arch. The water-courses by
the sides of the temple, and, I think, a horizontal gutter, were plainly
distinguishable here. .

These temples, with their ﬂorid decorations, naturally strike a
stranger more than anything else at ﬁrst.—they mingle so oddly with
the other features of the scene: but one soon neglects them for the far
more interesting excavations of an earlier date. I suppose the primi-
tive abodes (whether of the living or the dead) were those which have
no ornament at all ;—nothing whatever being done to the outside. But
after these comes another order, specimens of which may be met at
every step. These have their whole exterior in its several parts, where
this can be managed, inclining inwards. in the Egyptian mode; and
sometimes backwards also. Some of the doorways, and many of the
pilssters, diminish towards the top. But the most distinctive mark of
these Arabian abodes is their parapet. From a point in the middle of
the cornice, a ﬂight of steps.—-that is, a representation of such in re
lievo,——retires;—three, four, or six steps, according to the width of the
building: and a line resting on the top step ﬁnishes the parapet. Some«
times the steps converge from the sides, instead of departing; and then
of course, they meet in a top step. This appears odd, and a fancy
devoid of beauty. at a distance; but it is an ornament appropriate to
the place, and it looks very well there. We may remember that stairs
in the rock were a great blessing to the limbs, and a great beauty in
the eyes, of the inhabitants of this fastness ;—as much so perhaps as
the ﬂuted column in the eyes of Egyptians and Greeks, to whom the
ﬂutings were sheaths for their arms; or the laurel-wreath to the R0-
mans, in whose minds it was associated with ideas of victory. The
steps of these N abathsean (or other Arabian) parapets are homely in the
comparison : but they are a natural device, and, therefore, not a wholly
ungraeeful one.

There was nothing in our ramble this morning so'pretty as the ground.
Among the rocks,'there were ﬂowery patches, like gardens. And the
slopes up to the higher excavations, and the platforms and recesses
among the uneven rocks. were carpeted with grass and wild ﬂowers,
and clumped with shrubs. Among many familiar wild ﬂowers, I found
one plant which we never see wild at home. The scarlet anemone
grew richly and abundantly here,—as abundantly as I ever saw poppies
in a ﬁeld.

For some time, we eluded the worst of the rain by running from cave
to cave: but at last, by some accident, the party was scattered. One
group had gone home early,—afraid of the damp: another was ina
Page-363
PETRA. ‘ 35E

lower tier of caves. A third had found dry wood, and made a great
ﬁre. Two of the gentlemen and I found ourselves ins cave which
was cold,without guide or dragoman, while the rain was coming down
like a shower-bath. We waited and watched: and a very pretty thing
it was to watch the little white torrents dashing down from the sum-
mits, here and there, as far as we could see. But these same waterfalls
were sending streams down the intervals of the slopes before ns,—-—in
some places already ankle deep. The whole sky was one dark gray:
and it struck me that, not only was there no prospect of its clearing up,
but that we were too far from home to run the risk of further delay.
My companions objected that we had no guide, and were quite ignorant
of the way; whereas somebody would certainly be coming soon to
look for us. I had a pocket-compass with me, however, and was quite
sure of the general direction. I knew that the tents lay south-west, on
the other side of the water-course. So off we went, as straight as an
arrow ;—across gullien, over hills, through ankle-deep water,—-for it
was no time for picking and choosing our footing. One of my com-
panions was lame that day; but on he must go. over stone-heaps and
through pools. We found a way down into the water-course,—walked
many yards along it.—knowing now where we were—and got out of
it not far from our platform. Within three minutes, before I had half
put off my wet clothes, I heard a shoutzv—the torrent had come down.
Down it came, almost breast high,—rushing and swirling among
the thickets and great stones in the water-course, giving us a river in a
moment. where we had never dreamed of hoping to see one! As soon
as I could, I ran out to the verge of the platform; and I shall never
forget the sight. It was worth any inconvenience and disappointment.
We forgot the dripping tent, from which little rills ran upon our bed-
steads: we forgot the lost hours of this last day, and our'damp ward-
robes, and all our discomforts. There was the muddy torrent,—or
rather the junction of two torrents, which divided the channel between
them for some way ;—the one which had come from the Sik. and past
the theatre, being muddy. and the other, item the north-east, being
clear. 0n came the double stream. bowing and waving the tamarisks
and oleantlers,—the late quarters of the Arabs, who were now looking
on from the opposite bank l—Just before sunset, I went to look again.
The white waterfalls were still tumbling from the steeps; and the whole
scene was lighted up by a yellow glow from the west, where the sky
was clearing. The torrent was still dashing along. making eddies
among the stones; and beyond it, ‘in a thicket. under a wall of rock,
was a group of Arabs round a ﬁre, whose smoke curled up above the
trees.—At night. I went out once more; and that was the ﬁnest of all.
The torrent was too deep within its banks to be touched by the moon,
which was now shining brightly. The waters could scarcely be seen,
except in one spot where they caught a gleam from an Arab ﬁre.
But at this hour, its rush seemed louder than ever. Iwas startled
to see how many were looking at it with me. All along the opposite
ridge, and on every point of the descent, were dim ﬁgures of Arabs;
and in the precipices, there was quite an illumination. Row beyond
Page-364
862 ass-nan Lll‘l.

row of the caves gave out yellow gleams; and in the moonlight rose
little pillars and wreaths of white smoke. The Arabs had come up
from the whole country round. at the sound of the waters; and I had
seen Petra populous once more.

I could not have supposed I could like a rocking tent so well. Our
clothes were hung up in all directions, for the chance of a drying: the
air seemed heavy with steam. My bed was wet. though I had bundled
it up under a square of Mackintosh cloth, as well as I could: but we
were very happy still. The best thing was. it was now impossible to
go to-morrow; the tents being too heavy with wet to be portable. It
was no triﬂe to me to have lost all my aches and pains at once: and then
there was the thought that I had seen Petra, with its river and its wild
citizens. We ordered in a large pan of charcoal. and made a very
pleasant evening of it, after all. I thought at the time as 1 think now,
—that there is an agreeable, as well as useful, virtue in these accidents
of travel; and that those who do not ﬁnd it so, had better make them-
selves comfortable at home.

The next day, the 23d of March, was a proﬁtable one. Instead of
going from cave to cave, which could not now teach us much more. we
made it our object to obtain some general views of the place ; in which
we succeeded. The company divided on this last day. Some of the
gentlemen went again in the direction of the Silt, to make another at-
tempt to copy the often-mentioned Greek inscription, which was on a
facade near the Khasne. The gentlemen had tried before to spell it out ;
and now it was to be'copied. if possible. It was the wish of our own
party to trace the area of Petra to the north; so we set out by our-
selves, with a sufﬁciency of armed guides. We thought these Arabs
very ﬁne-looking people, with faces full of life. They were always
civil to us, and evidently much amused at our dress and ways. Our
guides examined Mrs. Y.’s cloak and my trumpet, and showed us
their muskets in return. They carried muskets. mstchlocks, heavy
clubs, and short-swords. I was never tired of noting their wandering
ﬁgures. brown and gray. on points of rock and sunny slopes.

Our guides assured us that they led us round by the most northerly
part of Petra. Of course, they know best, and must be right; but
there were two ravines which I would fain have explored, if we had
had more time. We passed through some curious chasms this mom-
ing. saw many troughs and cisterns, with steps cut over the 310 s to
each ;—overlooked many excavations, and were completely pussibed by
a new discovery. We found several pits cut in the rock, one of which
had steps, and the others foot-holes, down one end; and these pits led
each to a subterranean place which was too dark for us to explore. I
hope the next traveler who goes will look to this. The most striking
of the new excavations which we saw was a series of unending doors
up the side of a ravine, like the doors of houses in a steep street. This
series, and a set of facades in stages, withdrawn behind and above one
another on the southern outskirts, are among the venerable features in
the architecture of Petra. To-day we saw a large tank, partly walled
with masonry, placed close by one wholly cutout of the rock. The
Page-365
run. 888

wall was deep and solid, and the inside of the tank had been stuccoed
throughout.

Partly by steps. and partly by sheerclambering. we reached a very
high point—s round summit—-frnm whence we obtained as ﬁne a view
of3 the whole place as its own obstructions allow. Nothing could be
more unlike theg gorge I had imagined before I came. We looked
down on a la e area of undulating ground, with its terrace lines now
clearly marke enoug h, and the sites of many great buildings as evi-
dent as the still-standing Palace itself, with their overthrown columns
lying beside them in round fragments. The water-course wound
through the midst, with its confusion of shrubs and bordering rocks.
To the south, appeared the single standing column. stationed above the
craggy way by which we had arrived and by which we were tmmor-
row to depart. Our platform and tents now appeared to be nearly in
the middle of the area. Behind them rose rocks, range behind range.
pierced with portals, gradually Increasing in hei ht, and offering more
facades, till the eye. traveling eastwards, arrived at the valley where
the theatre is, and could detect the dark cleft of the Silt. Further
round to the east, rose the great group of facades which we visited
yesterday: and then the whitish outside mountains showed them-
selves, giving an idea of an opening to the north, which the guards,
however. deny. All the rest of the circumference was ﬁlled up with
vast precipitous summits, (behind which El Deir was hidden.) gorges,
and the mystery of steps, cisterns, and caves, till the eye arrived at
the western facades, and the single column again. This bird's-eye
view was very valuable: and I do not know that it indicated any one
great object lell unachieved; though, as I need not say, there is work .
for many successive travelers. and for many weeks of research when-
ever a qualiﬁed party will set their minds upon going through with it.
The only thing I much regretted leaving uuvisited was a pyramid
perched upon an extraordinary heightz—we thought higher than El
Deir. We caught a sight of it now and then between the 3delta of the
precipices ; and best,l think, from the platforms before the eastern fa-
eades. We have no idea what it is, or how it is to be reached.

In the afternoon came the Sheilth again, with new demands! The
conference between him and Alee was a capital spectacle—Alec on his
haunches before the iron-faced old man—the dragoman’s mobile coun-
tenance now astute, now winning! Hussein refused porter; but his
heart was softened when Mr. Y.oﬂ'ered him ﬁgs. He gained nothing
else by his demands: yet he embraced Mr. E., and declared that he
was certainly the greatest man in Europe. and one whom he would
always have for his friend.

In the evening, Mr. W. came to give us the result of his visit to the
Greek inscription. It was soon told. The whole facade had fallen—
brought down. no doubt. by the rains of yesterday! When the party
arrived, they found the way blocked up by masses of stone : and the
guides were aghast at the ruin. It was well for us, and more than we
could have expected, that they did not attribute the mischief to the
profanation of our visit, and take vengeance on us accordingly. Mr. W.
Page-366
8“ sum urn.

searched. and found a bit of the inscription : but as a whole. it is irret-
coverable. That far-famed work is gone forever! This is a warning
to us not to judge of what Petra was by what we see now. It is na-
tural to suppose a sort of immutability in a rock-fastness like this: but
we see here how much depends on the structure of the rock, and the
inﬂuences which operate upon it. The forces of wind and water are
great at Petra : and the presence of oxide of iron here, as of saltpetre
in the columns at Karnac, seems to insure the fall of works which
would appear likely to greet‘ as many generations as the everlasting
hills.

I again went out at night. and saw the ﬁres of the Arabs, even in
some very distant caves. But instead of clear moonlight, there were
clouds driving in the cold rising wind. I lingered over this night
View; for it was the last. In the morning, we were to be off; and
the most romantic vision of the travels of my life would be withdrawn.

 

CHAPTER IX.
MOUNT HOE—FROM PETRA TO THE FRONTIER 0F PALESTINE.

ON the morning of Wednesday, March 24th, ten of our company
were 08' before seven. with a party of guides, to ascend Mount Her.
The rest of our number were to set out later, and to await us with
luncheon at an appointed spot, while the baggage camels were to pro-
ceed still further. that our tents might be pitched before we reached our
resting-place. This separation of our party showed that the Sheikh
apprehended nothing from enemies just here, though he had been so
cautious after leaving Akaha.

I walked out to Petra. wishing to have mylastlook of itundisturbed.
It was more striking than ever; and especially the enclosing rocks. with
their cloven summits and nest-like habitations. The last object, be-
longing to Petra itself, which was visible, was the single column. which
we left standing like a sentinel above the pass. As I walked from it,
I left Petra to its mists and mysterious quietnde, and turned my thoughts
to Mount Hor, which rose immediately before me.

We were assured that the ascent was only 1500 feet from the high
ground on which we stood.—We were well pleased to be permitted to
ascend this mountain; but I certainly had no idea at the time how rare
was the privilege we were enjoying. Burckhardt was prevented, both
by fatigue and the opposition of his guide, from going further than
“ the high plain called Aaron’s terrace, at the foot of the mountain upon
which his tomb is situated :" that is, the plain on which we now
emerged from the bed of a torrent, which we had been following for
some time. Here Burckhardt sacriﬁced a goat to Aaron, fulﬁlling the
pretended vow by which alone he was enabled to get even thus far.
He declares that he afterwards much regretted having failed to visit the
tomb. Laborde and Linant had to hurry away from Petra without
Page-367
lam non. 365

ascending Mount Hor. Dr. Robinson was not permitted to attempt it.
Captains Irby and Mangles went up, by a path needlessly difﬁcult, it
appears; and they came down the same way; thus missing the very
remarkable objects on the western side of the mountain.

Captain Mangles says of the ascent, “ We began to mount the track,
which is extremely steep and toilsome, and affords but an indifferent
footing. In most places, the pilgrim must pick his way as he can, and
frequently on his hands and knees. At the steepest points there are
ﬂights.of rude steps, or inclined planes, constructed on stones laid
together; and here and there are notches cut in the rock, to receive
the foot. The impressions of pilgrims' feet are scratched in the rock
in many places ; but without inscriptions." Though we went up the
sameside of the mountain. we must have been led by a different path,
for I remember nothing of going on hands and knees ; and my journal
says of the ascent, “ It is easy,—-as rocky ascents usually are, mount-
ing from platform to platform by stones and water-courses. There
were many signs of the late rain, and the wild-ﬂowers were fresh and
pretty. Mr. W. found a red tulip. From the highest platform below
the summit, we saw, nichcd in the precipitous opposite mountain, the
facade of El Deir: and extraordinary it looked ! I could not but think
of old Aaron. coming up here to die, and wondering what his thoughts
were and those of his companions." I have always thought that little
narrative“ eminently beautiful. It is so brief, so simple, so full of calm,
penitent obedience!

The Mohammedans make a great saint of Aaron. They have built
his tomb on the summit of this mountain; and the place has been
visited in pilgrimage for centuries, and by multitudes. Times are
much changed now. as I thought when I stood on the summit; for
these bigots have so far surrendered their horror at Christians as to
permit us to see everything here for 20 piastres a head,-the excuse
for the charge being that it was to pay for candles.

Just below the summit, some of the party found a fragment of a
column, and some bits of marble. Within the torch—which is a
square building. with a cupola rising from the middle of the roof,—
we found a piece of handsome pavement of inlaid marble: and more
fragments, some wrought and some plain, were mixed .in with the
rough ﬂooring. Two very small carved capitals were lying on the
ground, and three pieces of the shaft of a column composed three steps
of the outside ﬂight which led to the roof. Unfortunately we had no
interpreter with us to obtain information from the old keepers of the
tomb as to whence these things came, the dragoman being with our
friends and goods below. The most mysterious thing in the tomb was
a round. polished black stone (which, however, one of the gentlemen
believed to be a lump of glass), ﬁxed in the wall, and. judging by the
mark on the wall round it, kissed by multitudes of devotees.—-ln the
chamber stands a sarcophagus of stone and marble, carved, on the end
next the door, with an Arabic inscription, which had once been on a

' Numbers XX. 22—29.
Page-368
366 names Lira.

blue ground. This was covered in likean oven. and wrapped over
with a heap of sordid cloths.—votive offerings. Rags and shreds of
yarn are hung rounds in great quantities.-There is a crypt, reached by
a staircase from this chamber,and we went down to see the place where
the body of Aaron is supposed to have been laid. It is a mere cup-
board, within an unhinged grating.

I went up to the roof for the sake of the view,-—oue last view, from
a height, of the boundless Desert. Its horizon line was so high as to
make one look again; to be sure that one had not taken the hazy sky
for it. There it lay, with its broad lights and streaks of shadow be-
youd the crowd of mountains about us. Even my journal declines
describing these. saying only that wildness is the most indescribable of
all the attributes of scenery, and that the wadees running between the
masses catch the eye, and seem the only avenues out of chaos. The
wind at the to was. not high, but rather cold.

We descsn ed the mountain on its north-east side, by what seems to
have been the Calvary path of devotees, by the steps out and facilities
provided. It is very precipitous, but thus made easy. For some way
down. it was like a winding staircase: and this staircase led to a sin-
gular work, not far from the summit. Alighting on a small platform, I
could not but think it artiﬁcial ; and on descending a staircase at one
corner, like that which led down to the Nilometer,[ found a very large
reservoir, arched over with ﬁfteen arches, which supported the blocks
of hewn stone composing the platform. The descent to the reservoir
was also arched. The cavity was not full of water. but time was still
a good supply. Burckhardt says,‘ “The plain of Human and the
neighbori mountains have no springs; but the rain water collects in
low groun s, and in natural hollows in the rocks. where it partly re~
mains the whole year round, even on the top of the mountain :" and-
this is clearly the chief reservoir. When we looked up from below
the platform, we saw that it was supported by a wall of massive ma-
sonry ;—a great work. On the next area, we found such heaps of
building stones, and long lines of foundation, as showed that large erec-
tions had once stood here. There were traces of terraces, one above
another; and a pit which had evidently been a large tank. The place
seems to have been little short of a city: but now we found no signs
of present habitation, except in a shallow excavation, where the ﬂoor
was strewn with dried reeds, on which stood a caldron. A large ﬂock
of goats was seen further down; and the herdsmen probably lived in
these cavea.—In a stony valley. an hour and a half from the summit,
we met our camels. The ascent, about which we had taken our time,
occupied two hours: and now, after mounting our camels. we de-
scended for two hours more, before we joined the rest of our party,
and sat down to lunch just after two o'clock.

I was struck by a little incident today, which seems to me curious.
At a difﬁcult part of the ascent, one of my friends advised me to try
his stick. 0f eourse,l would not deprive him of it: so another of

' Travels in Syria, 811:, p. 430.
Page-369
Paras 'ro rms‘rtas. 867

the gentlemen cut one for me, from among the low, stout trees which

w near. But one of the guides was carrying his cobbous, which
he was desired to lend me. as more convenient on account of its handle.
The cobbous is a stick with a very peculiar handle, which makes it
precisely resemble the Power symbol of the Egyptian gods. and which
is like no other staﬁ' that 1 know of. The Arab, otherwise a very
obliging man. was evidently reluctant to make the exchange. even as
a loan: and for two days,during which I carried his cobbous, he never
lost sight of me. He kept near my camel, and hung round the tent,
and looked in, to point to the stick, and sent me messages to remind
me that it was only lent, and to ask when he should have it again:
and he would not exchange it for anything whatever. I was disposed
to think, from observation of him. and of the two or three others who
carried the cobbous, that it was their symbol of Power or dignity; and
then I exchanged sticks with him again. to his evident relief. He was
like another man when he had snatched his cobbous, and hugged it
once more.

The rest of the day's journey was a continued and pretty steep
descent, for an hour and a half, into the plain; and we encamped in
Wadee Araba. The mountains showed every variety of hue that we
had seen in the Peninsula. One black mass rose beautifully out of
the sands on our left; and while I was admiring it. my eye was caught
by our tents, ready pitched at the foot of one of its spurs. and beside
the shrubs of a water-course which bounded our camp on the other
side. I was not sorry to ﬁnd we were so near our resting-place. for
my camel had been very troublesome by lying down. whenever my
attention wandered from my rein. The animal had had an easy day's
work, as I had not mounted till after noon. Though it had cropped
at every bush we passed,l was not fully aware how far the poor beast
was exhausted with hunger.—We had notice from the Shaikh this
evening that we must be stirring early in the morning.

On the 25th, our journey lay throuthhe wadeez—plain riding,
sometimes among shrubs, where our camels made a very inconvenient
rush at the tamarisk twigs, and were always trying to lie down. To
avoid the irksomeness of this, I walked the greater part of the way,
sometimes over water-courses so muddy as fairly to daub my boots ;—
a sign that rain had been here too. I saw three large ﬂocks of wild
geese, which ﬂew round and round in apparent confusion; and some
of the company observed a herd of gazelles afar. It was so hot that
we waited an hour for luncheon. rather than sit down where there
was no shade. In half an hour after remounting, the Sheikh wanted
to encamp; but we began to think we should never reach Jerusalem
at this rate, and rode on. I happened to be foremost of our company,
and 1 thus came in for a ﬁne sight.

As usual. ten armed guards were in the van, and the sheikhs were
pushing their horses hither and thither. The scouts had ascended a
sandhill, in advance, and a little to the right: and it was plain that
there was a commotion there. Hasan. the Sheikh second in dignity,
galloped up, rose in his stirrups, shook his spear, ﬂung away his turban.

A/
Page-370
868 amass use.

letting his top-knot stream in the wind. and galloped- away again, raising
the sand in clouds wherever it was dry enough. Then, what a hubbub
there was! The guards were mustered. the camels driven together
in a mass. the sheikhs ﬂying about, and giving notice that we were to
be attacked by Bedoueeus from behind the sandhills. The matchlocks
were made ready, and swords and knives looked to. Just at this
moment. when l was at the heightof expectation of seeing the grandest
of Desert sights, an old ne ro camel-driver ran up. snatched the rein
out of my hand, and trotte my camel away, pulling it forward with
all his strength. By every sign I could think of, I ordered him to
give me my rein: but the old fellow was as imperious as 1 could be t
and we were nearly out of sight of our guard before I came in the way
of a dragoman who could compel the man to do as I wished. I rode
back, but met some of my party. who said we were to wait till the
rest of the caravan came up. There was a gathering and delay behind ;
and soon a message arrived that one of the ladies had fainted.—not
from fear, but previous illness,—and could not come on. Here we
waited an hour| near a pretty little oasis; a jungle of reeds and bushy
palms. When the alarm seemed over. we dismounted, and sat under
a thorny-acacia. We wondered whether this little aﬂ'air was real or
a sham; but agreed that if it was a sham. the drivers were not in the
plot. Their alarm was real enough—Long afterwards, when we were
in Syria, we learned that the matter was indeed serious. Sheikh Hus-
sein was smuggling us through the territory of a tribe with whom
he should have shared the money paid for our passage. The old man
was really terriﬁed, but paciﬁed the Bedoueens by some means, so
that they let us pass now: but they rose on him, on his return, shot
his beautiful horse under him, and killed six of our escort. Poor
fellows! it was no fault of theirs.

At the end of an hour. we saw the rest of the company slowly ap-
preaching, and we mounted; but we went on only for a few minutes—
to the foot of the white hills which we were to cross the next day.
We heard no more of the robbers; but there was a different kind of
robber in the camp at night—a wolf which, no doubt, came after our
sheep. One of the gentlemen saw it; but it was gone before he could
get his gun ready.—l think it was this evening that Mr. E. came in.
in a hurry, to order our rice to be boiled for some of the men,—-having
discovered that our camel-drivers had lived upon grass for two days.
The Sheikh had provided no food for them. The matter was now be-
coming serious. We went a shorter distance every day, and were
perpetually delayed from the inability of the baggage-camels to keep
up with us. Our’own beasts were feeble; yet my driver had more
than once jumped up behind me without leave. He was forbidden
to do this again, as the beast was in no condition to carry double: but
I believe the man was almost as little able to carry himself.—There
was much doubt this evening whether our invalid companion could
proceed to-morrow; for she was very ill. Happily, there was an
excellent mesmerist in the company, who tried his power upon her
Page-371
nm to nus-nus. 869

with admirable eﬂ'ect. She revived surprisingly,had a quiet night, and
was in the morning able to go on. ‘

During the 26th. we traversed the skirts of the mountains of Seir.
crossing ridges of truncated sand hills, and dropping into basins or
wadees, tufted with shrubs. We encamped, in a high wind, at the
foot of the pass of Sufa, which we were to cross very early to-morrow.

Mrs. Y. and I were off on foot before six. This pass is supposed
to be the one by which the Hebrews attempted to enter Palestine the
ﬁrst time, from Kadesh. when they were driven back to their lon
wandering. Before us was a limestone rock.believed to be a thousan
feet high. It was split by a ravine. the right side of which we pursued,
while the camels. and most of the walkers. took the left; and very pic-
turesque they looked, winding up the heights. At the top. where the
ravine closed. and was surmounted by a fort. there was scarcely a
footing for the camels, the steep slope being bare. shelvy limestone,
with occasional notches or steps. and traces of an old path. but with
scanty available footing now. It was by this road that the Egyptian
army entered Syria; and the masonry which I saw at the closure of
two ravines, and the fort at the summit of the pass, are probably the
work of Ibraheem Pasha. Some. however, believed the fort to be
ancient. ' It was here that we bade farewell to Wadee Aruba; and
wild beyond description was the scene.

After walking for three hours among the passes.‘I found the com-
pany seated under a tree, compelled to wait for the baggage-camels.
After resting a considerable time, and then rising, we were stopped by
the Sheikh. and detained another half hour. 80 we ordered luncheon.
to save time. It was only half-past ten: but we had set out very
early.—-Then we went on again, the Shaikh having borrowed a horse.
and set Lady —— on his, paying her every attention. by way of
propitiating the company. 1 think it was within an hour when 'I,
being in advance of the other camel riders. came in view of a shrubby
wadee, where Lady —-— was sitting in the shade. and the Sheikh
standing beside his spear, which was stuck in the ground, while his
men were making ﬁres. Here he meant to encamp: but I knew the
gentlemen behind would not consent to stop so seam—so necessary as
it now was to push on to some place where food could be had for men
and camels. Lady told me the old man was quite deter-
mined to stop: and he made signs to me to dismount, which I refused.
He came to me, and made the camel lie down,—the animal unfor-
tunately understanding Arabic better than English. I made it get up
again, and rode back to tell the gentlemen what they would ﬁnd. Mr.
E. and others declared at once that we should on no account stop till
four o'clock; and it was now only one. I asked to be ordered to
move on; and on we went.—Mr. E. and I and a youth of the party.
The Sheikh came in frontol' us; but we passed him with a civil greet-
ing. He ordered the drivers to make our camels lie down: we made
them get up again. The worst of it was that the animals were ready
to take the least hint about stopping. My camel lay down against my
will thirteen times this day.-—The Sheikh himself next caught hold of

24 '
Page-372
I" turn! ml.

Mr. E.’s rein, and in the most insulting manner, brought his camel
down on its knees. This was the only moment when I was really
alarmed. It seemed too much to expect that Mr. E., with a stick in
his hand, should not rap his knuckles. But I might have known our
friend’s prudence and ﬁne temper better. He raised and tumsd his
camel. and went on.

We agreed now that we were in for it. We had deﬁed the Sheikh
in the presence of his people, and taken on ourselves the conduct of
the journey for the time. We conscientiously believed this to be ne-
cessary, in order to get on to Hebronwithin any reasonable time, and
in any condition but that of starvation : but we agreed that we would
hear in mind the mortiﬁcation we had inﬂicted.and spare the old man’s
feelings in other matters as much as we could. 0n looking bitch]
saw that our comrades were following us; and soon Lady
and the Sheikh appeared in the rear. Our dragoman was grave, and
some of the Arabs evidently perplexed.

On we went, through a wadee, strewn with wild ﬂowers,—we three
in from. and Mr. F. riding not far behindr—when the Sheikh galloped
past, stopped a-head, in the middle of the way, and waited with his
spear, as if to bar our progress. We greeted him and rode by. He
then tried his ﬁnal manoeuvre. He wheeled his horse at full gallop
round and round us, coming nearer and nearer, till he almost closed
upon Mr. E.; and when behind him, raised his spear with a theatrical
air, and stuck it into Mr. E.’s camel under the tail. I saw that it was
so gently done that the animal would not be the worse; and this con-
vinced me that the whole was a show, for the sake of intimidation.
Mr. E. was so quiet, that I thought at ﬁrst that he was not aware what
was doing: but he turned on his seat with a look which said, as plain!
as looks can speak, “0! that is the way you think to frighten me: ’
and rode on as before,—only bidding our young friend let his pistols
alone. Both this youth and Mr. F. had recourse to their pistols in a
moment: but there was no occasion for them. Mr. E.’s contempt had
done the business. The old Sheikh sneaked off. completely emet-
t'sllen, and dropped into the rear. The whole scene, which passed
more quickly than I can describe it, was so ridiculous,—thers was so
much of stage eﬁ‘ect about it,—that it made me laugh for an hour after.
I might have recovered my gravity sooner, but the second Sheikh,
Hasan, who had come up to see, and to help, I suppose, if necessary.
was now walking near: and he seemed so utterly perplexed at my
laughter. that it set me 03' again. If I stopped for a moment, he came
to the head of my camel, and peeped under my hat, with such an ex-
pression of perplexity and amazement in his face, that it made me
burst forth again.

“ And now," [said to Mr. E., “ what will you do next 2"

" It is now twenty minutes past two. We will ride on till four."—
I begged for some little concession; and it was settled that we should
stop at the next advantageous place after another hour.

The Sheikh two or three times cantered past us, planted his spear,
and waited: and when he saw that we did not attend to it, rode on
Page-373
ram re mam. s71

again—snot coming near us. or using any threats. If I had not known
that the Arabs, though they can occasionally talk about revenge, are
not apt to bear malice, I should have felt rather uneasy; but there was
no worse result than-a conﬁrmatiéh of our Sheikh’s conviction that
Mr. E. was the greatest man in Europe. Our sti'airs with old Hire“
seln certainly taught us that the display of force and imperiousness
which we always hear of as necessary with the Arabs. is no more not
eessary with them than with any other people. Mr. E. did not show
his arms. or look’ ﬁerce. or talk big. He was ﬂearless, steady. and
geodatempered; and the old chief was as completely subdued as he
could have been by any demonstration of physical force. Mr. E. had
the thanks of our whole company for his moderation and ﬁrmness: and
I consider has small result of our adventures in the Desert that we
have proof how manly goodness will avail with a tribe of ‘ people widi
whom it has hitherto been considered necessary to use force or the
threat of it. The manliness is, however, indispensable. Reasonable-
nesa and amability will not do without ﬁrm speech and fearless face.

We had' the pleasure of entering upon a green wadee before we
stopped to-day :uofriding over grass, however thin' It might be.-atrd
seeing by the wayside the purple Iris, large and small, wild oats. daisies.
butter-cups, and abundance of the homely mallow. The whole ground
might have been English. except for the ﬁne scarlet anemones. which

' grew as plentifully as any other weed. We had sand-hills'on’the one
hand, and stony hills on the other: and when we came to a pleasant
nook, partly sheltered from the wind (which blew strong). and oven!
spread with grass. Mr. E. dismounted. I was amused to see the
Sheikh’s eelerity in striking his spear. and his emphasis in giving
orders, as if it was he who had chosen the resting-place.

Four scorpions were found in two tents, as soon as they were
pitched , and the number of black beetles under the stones was won‘
derful. There was a fort on a rising ground above us , and from that
height, the ﬂat-to pped trees in the wadees looked picturesque. It was
observable that they were of larger growth now, day by‘day‘; espei
eially the thorny-acacia.

The dragornen expressed themselves glad that we had nearly done
with Hussein‘s Arabs, who had been throughout the journ lazy;
disobliging. and always wanting pay,——loading the camels b ly. and
spoiling the things, refusing to re-load what fell, and to get water. or
reader any service asked of them. For their rapacity, they had the
example of their chief: and their laziness might be partly excused on
the score of weakness from hunger.

The Shaikh sought an interview this afternoon with Mr. E.; and he
demanded the rest of his money. He was told he should have it at
Hebron, and not before; whereupon he said he should draw of all
his men and camels that night. and leave us in the Desert. He was
told that we could not prevent hint. if he chose to do that; but that he
had better consider the consequences; that we had a friend at Cairo in
the Consul-general, and that if any harm happened to Its, or to all;
British subject. through his means, the Pasha would take ears that t
Page-374
8‘72 nmas urn.

should be very long, indeed, before he heard the last of it. He repeated
his threat very emphatically, and withdrew. We did not believe he
would desert us; but, if he did, we imagined that some Arabs near
would be happy to take his place, in order to get his money. The
day before, a party of Bedoueens, armedand formidable looking, had
appeared from behind the sand hills; and it seemed doubtful for a few
minutes whetherwe were to have peace or war. But, after a conference,
there was a prodigious kissing all round, and the strangers vanished.
Still, the impression was conveyed to us that these men were not satis-
ﬁed, the cause of their discontent bei the same as in the former case;
that Hussein was carrying us throng their territory without paying
tribute. There was reason to believe they were now not far 03'; an
we thought it probable that they would be thankful to convey us to
Hebron for Hussein’s pay. There was no occasion to ask them, how-
ever. In the morning, there was Hussein, smoking away as grandly
as ever!

This was the morning of Sunday. March 28th,—a memorable day
in the history of our journey; for it was that of entering upon the
Holy Land. It had been agreed over night that we should start early,
and stop early, in order to have service. We were now about four
hours from the frontier; and our faculties seemed sharpened to note
every object that met our eyes on these outskirts of the most sacred
region on the earth’s surface. How well I remember what the scene
~ was at six o’clock, when Mrs. Y. and I were walking in the early sun,
on a spit of sand, to dry our feet, wet with the dewy grass which had
been our carpet at breakfast! Tilers we were comparing the impres-
sions of our childhood about the story of Jesus, and the emotions and
passions that history had excited in us; and we saw, the while, the
breaking up of the camp, and the leading forth of the camels which
were soon to set us down on his native soil, and possibly near some of
his haunts. Our course was through thin pasture; very thin, the
ground being strewn with stones. The swelling hills bore some re-
semblance to the Scotch lowlands, but were more interrupted by waterh
courses. A few camels were grazing. and many ﬂocks: a black so-
campment of Arabs was on a distant slope, and we met a woman here
and there, leading the goats. To the east were the blue mountains
which enclosed the Dead Sea. No one could tell the exact moment of
crossing the frontier; but it was just after ten when we were assured
that we had entered Palestine.
Page-375
,’ PART III.

PALESTINE AND ITS FAITH.
Page-376
“ To everything there is a season, and n time toevery purpose under the heaven."
—Ecclaiada, iii. 1.

" Fint the blade, then the cor; nﬂer thnt, the full corn in the turf—Hark iv. 28

" Dans tout le monde oonnn, vers l’ére chrétienne, et dans tunes les classes écllirées
ouvulgairee do on mnnde, on sembla reuenti: nu méme instant le besoin de s'en
rememe d un nouvel urdre d'idéea, qni nunit pour premiére lai de s’adreeeer nux
Ames beemanp plus encore qu’eux esprits épnisés; de-rompre toutss'les bun-Bree re-
ligieneee «we. entre lee initiée et les profuse, et de diesiper de fond en curable,
oomme l’hauneur en I appertenu an christinnisme, nn ngrégution tumnlmeuee de
déauea at de diaux qui ne lniunient privés de leur examples et de leur pmteetion
mean genre d'nhturdités ni de vieee."—Ibu CM: 1 so W.——8a&adw, i. p.
67. ’

“ And hex-e we cannot but by the Why the notice of that famous end remarkable
story of Plummh's in his Dinn- or OIACLII, concerning demons lamenting the
death of the great Pm. In the time of Tiberius (saith he), certain persons embark-
ing from Asia for Italy, towards the evening sailed by the Fchinades, where, being
bealmed, they hand from thence a loud voice calling one Thumoue, an Egyptian
mariner amongst them, and alter the third time commanding him, when he came to
the Pnlodes, to declare that n: Gun- Psx vns Dnn."—Cuduorth.—Iutclhdual Sys-
um, I. ch. iv. p. 345. k
Page-377
PALESTINE AND ITS FAITH.

caama I.
ENTRANCE UPON THE HOLY LAND.—HEBRON.—BETHLEHEM.

Tea ﬁrst thought or impression which I remember as occurring on
my entrance into the Holy Land, was one of pleasure that it was so
like home. When we came to towns, everything looked as foreign as
in Nubia: but here, on the open hills, we might gaze round as on a
multitude of familiar objects, and remember to whose eyes they were
once familiar too. Never were the rarest and most glorious ﬂowers so
delightful to m e es as the weeds I was looking at all this day ;—the
weeds of our benign and ditches and ﬁelds; forI knew that in his
childhood He must have played among them; and that in his man-
hood. he must have been daily familiar with them. If his family and
that of John were related, and if the family of John lived at Hebron,
the probability is strong that Jesus may have been in the very district
through which we traveled this day. 80 general as were the habits
of travel among the Hebrews. and so often as the men had to come up
to Jerusalem to the feasts. it is scarcely likely that relatives should not
visit each other when so near as Jerusalem is to Hebron. So I already
saw that vision which never afterwards left me while in Palestine,—of
One walking under the terraced bills, or drinking at the wells, or rest-
ing under the shade of the olives: and it was truly a delight to think
that besides the palm and the oleander and the prickly pear, he knew,
as well as we do, the poppy and the wild rose, the cyclamen,the bind-
weed. the various grasses of the way-side, and the familiar thorn. This,
and the new and astonishing sense of the familiarity of his teachings,—
a thing which we declare and protest about at home.but can never ade-
quately feelf—brought me nearer to an insight and understanding of
what [had known by heart from my infancy, than perhaps any one
can conceive who has not tracked his actual footsteps. But it is too
soon to enter on this now.

We entered Palestine at the close of the rain season, which ordina-
rily ends with March. A few drops of rain feil to-day, and the wind
was cold. In about an hour from the frontier, we came upon a men r
bit of ploughing;—the ﬁrst cultivation we had seen for some wee s.
Then there was more, on a better soil, and some cross-ploughing, with
a rude antique-looking plough, and a camel. The soil was reddish,
Page-378
376 ass-rm Lin.

and much encumbered with stones. The myriads of little locusts, or
grasshoppers. which swarmed for miles, were beyond belief. They
lay. like clusters of bees, on the grass. covering it for large spaces: and
they ﬁlled the air, for about a foot above the ground. by Jumping as we
passed. I ma safely say I never saw so many living creatures in the
same space be ore; for it seems to me that the gnats and frogs in an
American swamp are not to be compared.to these brown locusts for
multitude.

We encamped about three o'clock.at a distance of four or ﬁve hours
from Hebron. The place chosen was a level plot of woody and stony
ground among the hills which we were to cross in the morning. It
was high ground, as we found by the cold: and it was not thought
very safe, as we learned by the rumors of wild Bedoueens. After ser-
vice, some of the gentlemen explored the site, and were reasonably
convinced that a town of considerable size had stood here. We had
already passed one. called now El Arat, supposed to be the Aroer of
Scripture; of which there remains a large building on a height, two
standing columns, and mounds of stones. Here already was another :
and for some days to come we were to be more and more impressed
with wonder at the ma itude and number of the remains we had to
pass. Nothing that l ave seen in other countries gives an idea of
such a thickly settled territory as this part of Palestine must once have
been. From the frontier to Jerusalem, the towns must have been in
sight of one another, I should think all the way; and in some places.
many must have been in view at once. And such ﬁne-looking places
too! No brick.—-no mud.—no mere piles of rough stones from the
hill sides: but square houses of hewn stone, with ﬂat roofs. rising in
tiers on the slope of the hill. or crowning its summit, or set within an
angle of the terraced heights.

The remains round our encampment consisted of long lines of foun-
dations, and numberless inclosure walls. almost razed to the ground;
and the overthrown columns of three ediﬁces; and the oriﬁce of a sub
stantially built well, with a hole in the rim. into which the pinof the
covering-stone no doubt once ﬁtted. There were caverns in the lime-
stone roclr, under some of the overthrown ediﬁces. These caverns
were once their vaults, but are now used to bed the goats. Such a site
was the very place for scorpions; and two were immediately found.

All the next day we continually saw gaping wells beside our path,
and under every angle of the hills where they were likely to be kept
ﬁlled. They were not now carefully covered, with a stone so massive
asthat the daughters of the triarchs could not roll it away:—the
country is too scantily people now for such care: but we could still
see turbaned men sitting beside the opening; and cattle crowding. and
sheep and goats led to it. Our way at ﬁrst today lay over the hills
where there were no visible tracks. These hill sides were very stony;
but they also abounded in shrubs and grass and weeds, whereon hung
the pearly dew-drops which loolr so beautiful to those who come here
by way of the Desert. It was all very like home,—-lilre the wilder
Page-379
rim-mos nrorr was no“ mo. 37‘!

parts of England, except for our Arab train, and the talk about wild Be-
doueens. for whom our scouts were carefully on the look-out.

This reminds me of a little adventure of this day which is not down
in my journal. but which I clearly remember, from a certain novelty of
sensation which attended it. The face-ache which I had had almost
from the day I left Cairo, had now increased toa degree which was
really terrible. This morning it was worse than ever; and I dis-
mounted. partly from the restlessness of pain, and partly because I
thought exercise might act as a counter-irritant. I was advised to try
smoking; and I found great relief for a short time. My own rty
passed me while I was looking better from this cause. and were t era-
fore not anxious about me. But before half the long train had gone by,
the pain came back; and when Alee and the baggage camels passed. I
could neither speak nor make a sign. I sank down on the wet ground
fainting. just after the last had gone by. Still the rear-guard were‘to
come. They passed without seeming to heed me. [was on sloping
high ground which happened to command the bases of the hills for
about a mile; and with my dizzy sight I could. see. opening my eyes
from time to time, when the ﬁrst of the troop went out of sight, and
when half were gone. and. at. length. when the last disappeared. Here
I was alone. indeed. on the hills of Judea. I did not expect to be long
alone; for I supposed that the wild Bedoueens would pounce upon me
immediately: but I was too weak to feel frightened. I tried to rise
several times; but I could not stand. I do not know exactly how lon
it was, but it must have been a considerable time, before two arme
Arabs came up, shouting. and running from different directions. They
were of our escort. 'I‘he had seen me in passing. and had run on for
my camel, which presently appeared. They lifted me on; but it was’
still some time before we could make any way. At last. I saw what
encouraged me to an effort; though indeed I had every motive before
in the danger I knew my poor Arabs to be in, so far from their com-
rades: but now there was hope in View. One of the gentlemen had
stopped to arrange his an: and he and his dragoman and driver were
dismounted, within hal a mile of us. In a little while. he had sent on
for brandy, and made my camel kneel till I should be more ﬁt to pro-
ceed. And then. of course, up came my kind friends. who could
hardly be persuaded that it was nobody’s fault. I felt throughout that
[should be missed at lunch and hardly before; for. in a caravan like
ours, everybody is supposed to be somewhere in the train; and my
friends were aware that I thought them more watchful over me than
was at all necessary. As it was, I know better than any of them what
it is to be alone on the wild hills of Judea.

About two hours short of Hebron, the shrubs congregated into thickets
about our path. and we had white briar roses dancing on the sprays.
Here the beautiful cyclamen began to peep out from under gnarled rootsof
old trees, or stones, or bunchesof moss. From place to place, I henceforth
saw this delicate and graceful ﬂower, till we left the skins of Lebanon
for the shore of the Mediterranean. I was presently surprised to see
Mr. E. promoted downwards from his camel to riding the Sheikh's
Page-380
m am ml.

horse. He told me that he had declined it repeatedly. but that “some
men have greatness thrust upon them." and he found it best to accept
his It led. This was our ﬁnal day with Huuein. He was to he paid
of in the evening; and this was his way, we supposed. of inking up
matters before parting with the greatest man in Europe.

We had now begun to observe that cleared ﬁelds. fenced with stone
walls. were on our left hand. The ploughed ﬁelds had a deep yellow
soil. And soon came vineyards and olive-grounds. where the shadows
of the spreading trees were cast on a soil of deep red. The vines ap-
peared very old; but we liked the Hehron wine which we afterwards
tested. In almost every vineyard was a tower, built of the stones which
lay about :—a place for the watchman and the tools, I believe. And here
we were already among these natural commentaries on the Gospel which
we henceforth met with from day to day. Here, before as. men had
“digged a wine-press, and built a tower."

But on this spot the mind of the gazer is or ought to he carried back
far beyond the time when there began to be vineyards here-at all; to
the time when the whole of this expanse of country was pasture land.
and the ﬂocks were on the hills, and the herdsmen. abiding in the ﬁeld
by night. worshiped the stars. Here, in these do , was that worship
0 the Sun whose traces we were to meet with th’roughout the rest of
our journey. Here. upon the plain of Mantra, nothing was more natural
than such worship to men who, living in tents in wide pasture lands.
with the brilliant sky of the East overhead, saw sun and moon daily
rise behind the mountains of Mesh. and go down towards the sea. to
let the dews descend and freshen the grass of the pastures. Here it
was that these Sun-worshipers found among them the tents of a mi hty
prinoe’ who did not worship sun or star. Here it was that Abra am
fed his ﬂocks both before and after his visit to Egypt. Here. as he sat
under the terebinth tree, in the plain, he could tell neighbor and guest
of those wonderful works of Egyptian art of which we could now have
told in the same place. Here he could astonish the shepherds of Mamre
with descriptions of the marvels. and hints of the mysteries of the
Pyramids; and with an account of the honors with which he had been
treated at Memphis. Here it was that Sara died; and within view of
where we now stood was the ﬁeld leadin up to a hill. wherein was a
cave in which Abraham wished to bury his dead. There was the bill
now' before us. with the cave in the midst of it, where the patriarch
himself was afterwards laid.

Then. after several generations. other herdsmen came hither, who
could tell more of Egypt than even Abraham. Hither came the sons
of the eneration who had come out of bondage. Years ago they had
buried iriam. not far to the south of this place; then they had seen
Aaron go up Mount Bar to die 3 and now lately. Moses had disappeared
from their eyes. They had not yet fulﬁlled the desire of Moses by
becoming a nation.—a people with One God and a single faith. They
were so little united yet by any national spirit as to be prepared for the

' Genesis XXIII. 6.
Page-381
mass. are

one! civil wars whicbtook place as soon as they obtained arms; that
is, under the Judgempresently after. Meantime. here they were. per-
mitted by the Philistines to pasture their ﬂocks. and learning the while.
mething of the arts of war and of civil life from the neighbors whom
they hated and despised as unclean, because uncircumcised :—theronly
uncircumcised people within their knowledge.

Then. again, some notations later. after the barbarian wars of the
times of the Judges, uring'which the institutions of Mona appear to
have been eompletely lost sight of, and the worship of Jehovah to have
been only one item in a wide idolatryp—during which, in the historical
lauguage,"‘every man did that which was right in his own eyes;"-—
immediately after that dark time. three women passedthis way.—un-
lees Orpah had already turned back to endervmountaias. where her
old home lay. Here at least passed old aomi and Ruth ; and greatly
astonished would Ruth have been to be told that she 'was to be the
great-grandmother of a kin who should be" crowned inthe city than be-
en: her eyes; a king whoa ould. so singas that the human race should
echo his strains through all future time ; and who should take the strong
rock-fort of Johns. some way to the north. and make of it a city so hol .
as that its vc name should be music for ever. Little did the gen
Ruth think 0 these things when she. and Naomi passed this way.

Whether the greatest man, after Moses, in all Israel. Samuel. was
over here, I believe we are not told ; but, as he lived in Ramah. and
journeyed much, it is probable that he was. He too. like Moses. was
disappointed in his wisest wishes for this people; and he, like Moses.
appears to have overrated their moral capacities. The people would
have a king. and a very bad one. Here theirsecond king was crowned.
not as sovereign of Israel, but. as yet. of Judah only. Here the limited
dignity was given, and here David lived for seven years and a half be-
fore he took the oath which made him king of all Israel. Hebron would
not longer serve for his residence, as it was necessary'for him to live
where he could communicate easily with other parts of his dominion.
and especiall where he could command the valley of the Jordan: he,
therefore, too the rock-fort of Jebus. and ﬁxed his abode upon Zion,
whose praises he thenceforth celebrated as never city was celebrated
by mortal man. Six of David’s sons were born in Hebroa. Of these.
Solomon was not one, he being the son of Bathsheba whom. as we all
know. David took to wife at Jerusalem; but two of the six were Abso-
lom, who here declared his rebellion. and Adonijah, who assumed the
government while David lay dying. in order to exclude Solomon. the
favored son of Bathsheba. From the time of David‘s removal to Jeru-
salem, we hear little more of Hebron, except as one in the list of fortiﬁed
cities. ' Once upon a. time. however. the Idumteans came up from Petra.
and took it; and it was theirs till Judas Maccabasus drove them out.
If this was the city “ in the hill country in Judea," where the Baptist
was born and reared, this is a strong interest connected with the place,
and the latest, except for those who like to follow the career of the
Crusaders. . .

[little thought ever to have felt any touch of the crusading spirit;
Page-382
380 um“ am.

but I was sur rised by an impulse of it, on turning the shoulder of the
hill which ha hidden Hebron from us. The town looked very pretty,
sloping down in the sun, on the two eminences on which it is built;
but the most conspicuous thing in it is the mosque which covers the
Cave of Machpelah. It was not the thought of this burial- lace of
Abraham, Isaac and Jacob which gave me a momentary ill-wi l to the
Mohammedans. It was the thought of the devout John,who had for a
disciple, for a time. a greater than himself. I was presently ashamed
of the absurd and illiberal emotion; and, as I looked upon the minaret,
felt that the Mohammedans had as much right to build over sacred

laces as the Empress Helena: though one must heartily wish they

ad all let it alone.—As soon as we thus came in view of the town, we
sat down on the hill side, to rest and refresh ourselves, sending on the
baggage, that our tents might be pitched on the quarantine ground,
south of the town, in readiness for us.

We found our tents pitched on thick short grass. with the tombs of
the Turkish cemetery behind us, and the town in full view in front.
0n the green, a company of Turkish soldiers was exercising. They
looked menu.—one might say vulgar, in their European blue uniform:
but the gentlemen said they went through their business very well.

There was time to look about us, before thinking of Hebron; for there
must be a negotiation ﬁrst with the Governor and the Doctor about our
obtaining immediate pratique. While the tiresome dispute was pro-
ceeding, I sat at the tent door, much amused at the delight of our ser-
vants in buying fresh bread. oranges, wine, &c., after our long absence
from all markets. The idlers who hung about us were a very hand-
some set of people: and in the town, we were yet more struck with the
beauty of those we passed. There was somethin cheerful in meeting
the women with faces uncovered, after the dark, ismal veiling we had
been accustomed to so long. Among all the Jews we saw, I observed
onl one who had what we call the Jewish cast of countenance. Here,
and, at Jerusalem and elsewhere, we saw many Jews with fair com-
plexions, blue eyes. and light hair. Such eyes I never saw, as both
the blue and the brown; soft, large, noble eyes,such as bringtears into
one’s own, one knows not why. The form of the face was usually fine,
and the complexions clear brown or fair :—the hair beautiful. The
drawback was the frequency of scrofulous disease among them, which
Iobserved particularly at Jerusalem. We went to the synagogue at
Hebron, through the winding alleys of the Jew quarter. The Chief
Rabbi being absent, we could not see the valuable MSS. said to be laid
up here: but we saw one pretty sight, in the beautiful children who
were at school in the synago ue. They were very fem—not more, I
think, than ten or twelve; and the building was small and mean. We
looked into the house of the Chief Rabbi, being invited in by his cheer-
ful hospitable wife, who wished us to stay for coffee. We would not.
put her to this trouble: but presently we met her venerable husband;
and he pressed us all to go in and dine l—a party which would have
ﬁlled his house! He was a gray-bearded, picturesque-looking old man.
Next, we were conducted to a glass-house,—of all odd places to see in
Page-383
naaaort. 881

Hebronl I would recommend at Newcastle one in preference, as there
the glass is not greenish and thin. and the articles mode can stand up-
right. We thou ht here as before. however. that the Arabs are ex ert
enough at manua arts, if they had fair play with tools and materia .

The most interesting object in Hebron, the tombs of the Patriarchs,
is of course inaccessible to Christians. Neither Jew nor Christian is
permitted to set foot within the mosque. We walked nearly round it,
and caught a view of the long ﬂight of steps inside. We saw also the
cistern where the worshipers wash; and that was all. It is believed
that the Faithful themselves are not permitted to enter the Cave of
Machpelah. Above the cave, a small mosque is built: and the mosque
stands in a court, which is surrounded by the great circuit wall under
which we walked. This massive stone wall is ﬁfty or sixty feet high.
and extends for about two hundred feet in length. It is needless to
say that it effectually prevented our seeing anything beyond itself.

In returning to the tents, we passed the two pools, believed to be very
ancient, from which the town draws its whole supply of water. These
pools are ﬁlled by the rain merely: and one of them was very weedy
and foul when we saw it. The other was clear. They are. large and
deep: the larger measuring. accordin to Dr. Robinson} one hundred
and thirty-three feet uare, with a epth of nearly twenty-two feet.
One of these is called t e King’s Pool, and is, accordin to tradition,
the pool mentioned 2 Sam. iv. 12, as the scene of a horn le execution
in David’s time.

It was so cold this evening that we were glad of a charcoal ﬁre in
our tent. The Sheikh perceived this to be a good time for extorting
money, by interfering with a lady‘s shelter for the night. He did not
meddle with Mr. E., having had enough of him. He took his money
very quietly; and we congratulated Mr. E. on having done with him.
But an urgent message came from two of the cler ymen, beg ing Mr. E.
to come and be] them to get rid of the Sheiih. We tﬁought our
friend had already had too much put upon him, and saw no occasion
for his being mixed up with further quarrels, when he had ﬁnished the
general business; and we dissuaded him from going. A second mes-
sage came, however, so urgent as to summon him ; and there he found
the Sheikh pulling down the tent from over the heads of these gentle-
men and the sister of one of them. He was goin to seize both their
tents. if they did not immediately pay some absurd demand which he
had imagined for the occasion. Mr. E. obtained only an abatement of
fortyJour piastres: and the rest was paid at once, to enable the lady to
go to rest.—-In the morning. the Sheikh requested permission, and cer-
tainly with enuine anxiety, to shake hands with Mr. E. This was
refused: and all that he could obtain by humble and persevering sup-
plication, was permission to touch Mr. E.'s hand. He ﬁnally asked
fora testimonial letter; but was told that he had better say nothing
about it. as we could report little favorable of him: whereupon he gave
us such a salutation as we should have looked for if he had obtained

’ Biblical Researches, II. 432.
Page-384
382 um am.

what he wished. Mrs. Y. and I watched from the cemetery the pro-
cess,--most tumultuous to-day,—of loading and setting OK the camels
on their return. They were delayed by the discovery of the theft of a
pistol from one of the tents. The Governor was sent for; and he or-
dained that the Shaikh should deduct the value of the pistol from his
ﬁnal pay; and this was done; and Sheikh Hussein and his train rode
away. I have mentioned what adventure befell him on his return.

“'e had twenty miles to ride to-dayp—to Bethlehem. When the
horses were all appropriated, there remained some donkeys for the rest
of us: and {had the smallest thatI ever mounted. After so many
weeks on a camel. this was like ridinga rat. But there was no litigue
in it, when we had once passed the very bad paved road near Hebron ,-
and the country was beautiful. The scenery was of the same charac-
ter as yesterday ;—stony hills, tufted with shrubs; ﬁelds of a deep yel-
low or red 'soil, ploughed to-day with bullocks; many pools and pic-
turesque old wells, sunk and weed-grown: but the trees were larger.
the shrubs ﬁner. and the wild ﬂowers gayer and more profuse. Nous
were more abundant than the Cyclamen.

We forgot the tree of Abraham till we had passed the way to it too
far to return; and we were not much concerned at it,-—-hartlly sup-
posing that the tree under which the Patriarch received the three visit-
ants can be visible now. Two gentlemen of the company had gone;
and we proposed to be content with their report. We lunched under
a spreading tree, in the shadow of a' rock;' and as we threw our egg-
shells about, little imagined what comfort we were providing for our
two comrades in the rear. One of them was on foot; so that both were
at the mercy of the country people. Their guide played them false;
they were threatened and assailed, and had to ﬁght and ﬁnd their way
as well as they could. While in some uncertaimy, they arrived at this
resting-place, saw our egg-shells. and knew that they were in the right
road. The walker was dreadfully exhausted when they joined us at
Bethlehem in the evening. ‘

We met a'compauy of pilgrims this morning.-—very like the group
in Eastlake's picture, only that they were leaving the Holy City, in-
stead of hastening tcit. There were more women than men; and they
were very good-looking: less travel-wom than could have'been ex‘

cted, after a pilgrimage ﬁrst to Mekkeh. and then to Jerusalem.

hey were now on their way home; some few on horses and asses. but
the greater number on foot: perhaps ﬁve-and-twenty in all.-—A little
further on we came to a large khan, with a vast reservoir; the resting-
place of the pilgrims who come this way, and the watering-place of
their-beasts.

At the end of twenty miles from Hebron. we came upon a ve ﬁne
View. On the ridge of a hill before us rose the convent of St. lias.
which we knew to be almost within sight of Jerusalem. A valley lay
on mu- left hand, from which sloped hills whose recesses were wooded
with olive groves. High up one of these hills, and in the midst of the
olive groves, was avillage—one of the handsome stone-built vill es
of Palestine, on which the setting sun was now casting its last gol eu
Page-385
mason. . 883

gleam. To our right lay Bethlehem. To our right we turned; for
news met us at this corner that we could be lodged in the Latin con-
vent at Bethlehem. We descended through the narrow streets of the
village, and passed along the road, half-way up the rocks, to the con-
vent, which stands on a point nobly commanding the eastern plain. as
for as the hills which enclose the Dead Sea. It was tooidusk now to
see much of this: and we left all research till the morning.—We were
kindly received by the friars, and had good rooms and thoroughly clean
beds. There w- no annoyance whatever but goats. The moon shone
in splendidly all night: a great blessing to me; for I was not yet suﬂi.
ciently at ease to sleep. 1 have a pleasant recollection of that night,
however.—the moon shining full in at the high window, and showmg
me the ample spaces of that lofty and large apartment; and the cer-
tainty being before me of seeing to-morrow the ﬁelds where Ruth
gleaned among the maidens of Boaz, and the. pastures where a shep-

erd-boy once tended his father's ﬂock's,—now seeking smooth stones
for his sling among the brooks. and now delighting himself with that
young song which was to grow divine. and to become the worship of
future ages and nations,—-in the islands of the Southern ocean, and
the cathedrals of Euro e, and among the forests of the western world.
It was strange to thin what the Psalms of David have become, and
then to remember that in the morning we should see the very valleys
and hillsides where he led his sheep, and tried his young voice, with
the echoes for his chorus.

On that morrow (Wednesday. March 81st), we had these anticipated
plenum—of seeing the face of the country where Ruth and her do-
scendant David were out in the fields; but we now began to experience
that pain,—-ao much greater than can be anticipated,—to one's char.
ished associations, which is the birth of superstition at home and on
-the spot. We hear much complaint from travelers of their pain from
the superstition on the spot; but little or nothing of the perplexity or
disturbance from the superstition they have left behind or brought with
them. The superstition I refer to is the worship of the Letter of the
Bible. to the sacriﬁce of its spirit. As to the comfort and pleasure of
the traveler in the Holy Land, it may truly be said that “ the letter
killeth, but the spirit maketh alive." I had opportunity to see the
diﬁ'erence between those who were in bondage and those who were
free. One of the best things that Coleridge ever said was that our
idolatry would be succeeded by bibliolatry. When I saw abroad, as I
continually see at home. the curse of this bibliolatry. I thought it hard
to say which was the worst of the two. In Idolatry, Christian or pa-
gan, there is always some true ideaiinvolved. however much corruption
may be associated with it: but in the ‘awful errorof mistaking the
Records of the origin of Judaism and Christianity for the messages
themselves, there seems no redeeming consideration. The error of
hibliolatry is the more tuitous of the two. There is no declaration
in the Records themse ves that they are anything more than records:
and if the writers could have foreknowu that the hearts and minds
which ought to be occupied with the history and. the doctrine would b
Page-386
884 smart mu.

enslaved by a timid and superstitious regard to the wording of the re-
cords, they would have been as much shocked at the anticipation as an
of us can be at the sight of it.——We all know. as well as Coleridge di ,
that this is only a temporary form of an evil which took other shapes be-
fore. and will take other shapes again. We know that there was far
more freedom of religious imagination. reason.argument, and; I may say.
knowledge among our Protestant divines a century ago than there is
now. This corruption of bibliolatry has so increased upon us, our. faith-
less and irreverent timidity has so grown upon us, even in that time.
that it would be an act of great coura e in divines of our day to publish
\vhat divines of acentury ago were onored for publishing. It is dif-
ﬁcult now for philosophers to make known,—in England, for the in-
cubus presses chieﬂy there.—-what can be proved to be scientiﬁcagly
true, in geology and some other directions; and it is much more di -
cult for philosophers and scholars to make known what can be proved
to be historically true or false. ’Of course, our generation loses terribly
by this, both in knowled e and in health of mind. But the evil will pass:
and, though it is to be gored that it will only pass into some new form
of idol homage. we will hope that men may ere long lift up their heads,
and use their powers freely, as those should do who believe themselves
sons of God, and heirs of Christian liberty. and not slaves. or infants
under the bondage of the Law or the Letter.

No one at home could feel all this more strongly than I did before I
went to the East; and I think no one who has felt it at home can help
being full of sorrow and pity there for those who go through the scenes
of Palestine with the timid heart. and narrow, anxious mind of super-
stition. Instead of " looking before and after," and around them in the
broad light of historical and philosophical knowledge, which wouldre-
veal to them the origin and sympathy and intermingling of the faiths
of men, so that each may go some way in the interpretation of the
mst—énstead of having so familiarized themselves with the wants and
tendencies of men as to recognize in successive faiths what is derived
and what is original—instead of being warned that any faith becomes
corrupted within a certain len h of time by the very zeal of its holders;
instead of havin the power 0 setting themselves back to the time when
Christ lived an spoke, so as to see and hear him as if he lived and
spoke at this day, our travelers may be seen—even clergymen of the
Church of En land— etting leave from the Bishop of Jerusalem to
carry wax can les in assion Week in the processions in the Church
of the Holy Sepulchre, and making obeisances to the priests, candle in
hand. Travelers maybe observed throughout doing one of two things;
overlooking, more or less consciously—the incompatibilities of the Scrip-
tural narrative—the absolute contradictions which can by no means be
reconciled ; or so fastening their whole attention upon one narration, to
the eaclusion of the paral el ones. as to escape the necessity of the re-
cognition of variance. I met with one devout pilgrim who was ac-
tually unaware of any incompatibilities in the different narratives of
the birth and infancy of Jesus; and who declared, previous to inquiry.
that there could be none, because—not the facts or doctrine—but the
Page-387
amuul. 385

narrative was the Word of God! I saw repeated instances of a gro-
veling superstition, a formal observance of days and places, which
made me wonder whether. if the groves and altars of Baal and Ash-
taroth had now been standing in their old places, there would have
been much to choose between such homage paid to them and to the
actual holy sites of Palestine. How different is the truer reverence of
those who go enlightened by knowledge. and animated by a bi her
faith l—who believe that the history of man is truly the Word of d;
and that the reason why the gospel is especially called so is because
those Glad Tidings are the most important event in the history of man.
How inﬁnitely venerable to them are the great religious Ideas which
they know to have been the guiding lights of men from the remotest
past, and which Christ presented anew, puriﬁed and expanded ! What
an exquisite pleasure it is to stand where Jesus stood, and look around
upon the old faiths and sectarian tenets of the world. and bring forth
from them all a faith and hope which should, notwithstanding dreadful
corruptions. elevate mankind through many future ages l—to have in-
sight into the sacred mysteries of Egypt, and the national theology and
Law of Sinai, and the ritual morality of the Pharisees. and the philo-
sophical skepticism of the Sadducees. and the pure and peaceable and
unworldly aspirations of the Essence, and to see how from all these to-
ether come the ideas, and from the unseen world the spirit, of the re-
igion whichJesus taught ! While the devotee looks for traces of his
footsteps, the disciple ﬁnds everywhere traces of his spirit. While
the devotee listens timidly to traditions, the disciple hears everywhere
the echoes of his living voice. While the devotee pores over the text
of the narrative, not daring even to bring parts to bear on each other.
which may throw light on the whole. the loving disciple so opens his
entire mind and heart as to perceive the Holy One with all his powers;
with his understanding receiving the doctrine—with his hope accept-
ing the promises—with his conscience adoring the spirituality—and
with his imagination accompanying the Teacher in all his-haunts—in
the wildernessﬁtnd in the Temple courts, and by the shores of the
Lake. On the spot. one hardly believes that it can be the same faith
that takes one man through the land. holy guide-book in hand, with the
timid, tentative gait of the devotee, and another man. conﬁding in his
uidiug instincts, with the free, joyous step of the disciple who has
ound his Lord.

As for the superstition of the region—the Christian superstition—I
need say nothing in advance of the pain which it causes. The merest
mention of what was shown to us is enough. I do not think that tra-
velers can be right in avoiding the Christian establishments in Pales-
tine. The spectacle answers the same purpose as the reading of the
Spurious Gospels. The spectacle and the reading are both painful;
but the are very useful and enlightening. and stimulate to a great deal
of who esome thought. Feeling thus. I saw everything that any one
offered to show me—except the mummeries of Easter Week in the
Church of the Holy Sepnlchre at Jerusalem. From that exhibition I
did shrink; and I stayed at home while two English clergymen and a

25
Page-388
386 names use.

lady were carrying wax-candles in the way I mentioned. At Bethle-
hem was our introduction to the monkish sights of Palestine.

In the morning, a friar showed us the church. built, as every one
knows, over the cave of the Nativity. It is a handsome church, with
departments for Greek, Latin, and Armenian worship. The crypt
could not be entered then, as mass was going on—and curious was the
effect, as seen from the entrance of the grotto, of the chanting con-
gregation crowded into a subterranean cave, all yellow light, and
smoke, and closeness. It was in these underground places that St.
Jerome lived and wrote ; arid this was a real interest belonging to the
place. When we returned to the crypt, after mass, we saw the silver
star which is laid in the pavement in the precise spot of the supposed
birth of Jesus; and the recess where Joseph waited for the news, and
the corner where a marble manger has replaced the original one; (for
even the friars did not pretend that this was the original manger ;) and
the place where the Magi presented their offerings; and. at some dis-
tance, the cave where the Virgin lived for some days after her reco-
very, and where, her milk becoming deﬁcient, she mixed the lime of
the sides with water, and so by drinking it, obtained a supply; and
then other caves where she had lived. As to these grottoes which are
supposed to have been the scene of most of the sacred events, Moun-
drell has some remarks which may sufﬁce, once for all.

“I cannot forbear to mention in this place." says Maundrell, “an ob-
servation which is very obvious to all who visit the Holy Land, viz.,
that almost all passages and histories related in the gospels are repre-
sented by them that undertake to show where everything was done,as
having been done most of them in grottoes; and that, even in such cases
where the condition and circumstances of the actions themselves seem
to require places of another nature. Thus, if you would see the place
where St. Anne was delivered of the blessed Virgin, you are carried to
a grotto; if the place of the Annunciation,it is also a grotto; if the place
where the blessed Virgin saluted Elizabeth—if that of the Baptist‘s or
our Saviour‘s Nativity—if that of the agon , or that of St. Peter’s re-
pentance, or that where the Apostles ma e the creed, or this of the
Transﬁguration—all these places are also grottoes. And, in a word,
wherever you go, you ﬁnd almost everything is represented as done
underground. Certainly. grottoes were anciently held in eat esteem,
or else they could never have. been assigned, in spite of l probability.
for the places in which were done so many various actions. Perhaps
it was the hermit-way of living in grottoes, from the ﬁfth century down-
wards, that has brought them ever since to be in so great reputation."
That this hermit-way of living is the antecedent of the fact, there can
be little doubt; but the practice and the fact certainl existed before
the time of the Empress Helena, for she was shown ho y grottoes, just
as we were. Of course, the Innocents were buried in grottoes too.
y: were shown in this crypt, an altar under which some of them were

at .

When we went to loolr abroad from the convent garden, we were be-

’set by Bethlehemites asking aims, or offering for sale mother-ofcpearl
Page-389
newsman. 387

shells, carved with Nativit subjects; and bowls. inkstands,&c., made
of some black substance w ich the people declared to be the hardened
mud of the Jordan. When we escaped from these people, it was very
interesting to look out over the valley, so familiar to Ruth and David;
and there was one spot. under the eastern hill, an inclosure planted
with olives, which the friars declared to be the ﬁeld where the shep-
herds were abiding when they heard the announcement of “peace on
earth, and good will to men."

The friars are cheerful, kind-hearted people. We saw them giving
dinner to the boys of the convent, who were merrily enjoying an abun-
dant meal. We left them some time before noon. to proceed ﬁrst to the
Convent of St. Elias, on the hill before us. We passed the tomb of
Rachel, and entered the Convent of St. Elias, where there was nothing
to see but the ordinary decorated altar, with the ordinary wretched pic-
tures over it—in this case, of Elijah and Elisha. Outside, however,
there was something really interesting. Looking eastwards. we caught
our ﬁrst view of the Dead Sea, whose blue waters showed themselves
in an interval of the hills.

Soon after, we saw, on the opposite northern ridge, a line of walls
which looked so insigniﬁcant that some of our company were unaware
at ﬁrst what it was. Mr. E. said to me, “ You know that is Jerusalem.”
I was not disappointed. as some were; for I knew that the most impos-
ing ﬁrst view was from the north,and the least from the south. Still, it
was now a mere line of wall; and next, only a single dome appeared
nb0ve it. But presently, when we could overlook the valley which in
between us and it, it became ve striking; and soon. it exceeded a 1
my expectations. The depth an steepness of Mount Zion now ap-
peared; and it was not wonderful that the people of Jebus sent that
scornful message to King David,‘ that their lame and blind should de-
fend their fort a ainst him. Next, we were struck with the depth of
the ravines of Si 0am and Hinnom, and their clustering red rocks; and
then, there was the long vast slope of Olivet beyond. From the valley,
we ascended a winding, steep, rocky road. which was to lead us in by
the Jade gate. 1 was on foot. and lagged behind, that I might not lose
by disturbance any feature of the scene. But I believe no one spoke.
We all felt that it was such a moment as we should never know again.
The black cupola of the tomb of David was conspicuous; and above
all, the great dome and surrounding buildings of the Mosque of Omar,
crowning the summit of Moriah, where ancient pilgrims used to see
the glittering roof of the temple. The bill of Moriah is so much lower
than Zion as to surprise those who had read that there was once a
height of480 feet from the Temple walls to Kedron running below; a.
visible proof, if true, of the loftiness of Mount Zion. Of course, the Val-
ley of Jehoshaphat, with Kedron in its depths, was hidden from us by
the intervening city and heights; but we saw more and more of Olivet,
swelling up and away beyond the city and the ravines. The Convent
ofthe Ascension was conspicuous on its summit; and lower down, the

’ 2 Samuel V. 6. 8.
Page-390
888 sssrsau use.

chapel on the spot where Jesus sat when he uttered the doom of the
city.

We entered by the Joffa gate, and wound through steep. narrow, ill-
paved streets, where the echo of the horses' feet between the high walls
struck upon the ear, through all the beating of the heart which told us
that we were in Jerusalem.

CHAPTER II.

ELEMENTS OF THE RELIGIOUS LIFE OF THE HEBREWS AT THE
TIME OF THE BIRTH OF CHRIST.

Barons going in search of the haunts of Jesus, it seems to me desirh
able to review. however slightly, the progress which religion had made
since the great events which dated from Sinai. This is necessary in
giving a faithful account of my travels, because I found it indispensa-
ble on the spot to the true understanding of my journey. In order to
see the scene of the life of Jesus at all with his eyes. it was necessary
to understand, as far as possible, his knowledge and his views: and in
order to understand these, it was indispensable to consider what were
the elements of the religious life of the time. If I could convey any
idea of the advantage, in this point of view, of studying, ﬁrst Egypt,
and then the Sinai peninsula, instead of going straight from the theo-
logical atmosphere of home into the sacred places of Palestine, I can-
not but think that much irreverent dogmatism, and much idolatrous su-
perstition would he recognized for what they are, and would give place
to ideas and a temper more beﬁtting the disciples of Jesus. We all
know something of the beneﬁcent power of knowledge at home, though
our knowledge there can be derived only from books. We all know,
in ourselves. or by observation of others, how entirely superstitious,
and therefore how nearly worthless is our religion, as long as we igno-
rantly suppose that all the events and arrangements narrated in the Bi-
ble are perfectly singular : a state of things ordained, down to the mi-
nutest particulars, for the sake of the “ peculiar people," and in no re-
spects paralleled elsewhere: and then, how the value of our faith rises,
and our character of mind rises with it, when divines worthy of their
oﬂice, and other learned instructors, show us how the religion arose,
and passed " from strength to strength," among circumstances and ar-
rangements which were common to all men of the time and region.
When it opens upon the young student that a part of the earliest tradi-
tions in Genesis are of Egyptian origin ; and that the covenant of cir-
cumcision was not with Abraham alone, but that the rite was practised
from a time unknown by all the Orientals. excepting only the Philistines;
and that though the Law originated with Moses, after an Egyptian
model, and therefore bore his name, it was, in its full extent, the work
of many centuries; and that the books, commonly called of Moses,
were therefore not written by him, nor ever asserted or assumed in
Page-391
nannsw rsrra n ma BIRTH or cums-r. 389

early days to be so, whatever amount of the material of them might
have been furnished by him; and that the calf-idol, and the sacriﬁces,
and feast-days. and the structure of the tabernacle. were of Egyptian
derivation: and that the practice of carrying a tabernacle was not pecu-
liar to the Hebrews. and so on :—when the young student learns these
things from religious scholars and their works at home, he ﬁnds, if he
be ingenuous, a strong light cast upon his faith, as well as an immense
relief afforded to his religious aﬂ'ections. He is set free from perplex-
ity and superstition about the apparatus employed in the conveyance
of religious ideas, and he is at liberty for the contemplation of the ideas
themselves,and for admiration of the process by which the loftiestand ho-
liest inﬂuences which have operated on the human race have issued from
the ordinary circumstances and habitudes of life. For one instance. he ho-
nors Moses inﬁnitely more for having transcended “ the wisdom of the
Egyptians," and dared to lay open their mysteries, while employing
for his purposes the religious associations which the Hebrews had de—
rived from them, than if it had been true, as the ignorant naturally and
perniciously suppose, that the apparatus and external arrangements were
as essential a part of the Mosaic religion as the doctrine that Jehovah was
the sole God ofthe Hebrews. Apart from the apparatus, and only passing
through the ritual to the minds of the people, how sublime is the doc-
trine! But how it sinks when it is supposed to be given on the same
terms with devices about the red heifer and the shew-bread. and the
priests' garments, and the fringes and rings of the tabernacle !

[u the same manner, but in an immeasurably higher degree, is the
progressive faith of the Hebrews. and that of the ﬁrst Christians, en—
hanced by the lights which travel concentrates upon the spot of their
origin and expansion. Books of Biblical scholarship,—those which
are the work of free and e‘nlightened and earnest minds.—are a great
blessing at home ;—the greatest, except the Book itself: and, more-
over, they are an indispensable preparative for the beneﬁts of travel:
but, as instructors, how low they sink while one is contemplating an
Egyptian tomb, or looking abroad from the heights of Butch! The
monumental volumes of Egypt teach in a day what can never be
learned in libraries at home: and in the Desert, “Truth springs out of
the earth, and righteousness looks down from the heaven” which over-
hangs Sinai. And these lights accumulated as we went; and we found
what it was to carry our Egyptian associations into the Desert; and
- thence, enriched again by the fruits of the Wandering. into Palestine.
As, in Palestine, our main interest is its being the abode of Jesus,I
gave comparatively little attention to any mere localities of more an-
cient events. but endeavored to carry clearly in my mind the religious
history ofthe Hebrews up to the time of Christ, in order to a better under-
standing of his own, and a more thorough realization of his presence
in the haunts which, for his sake, we sought. A brief retrospect of
that kind here is necessary to a faithful account of what we saw.

The ﬁrst thing evident in the history, after the arrival of the He-
brews in the Promised Land. is the utter apparent failure for the time
of their leader’s aim and hope for them. His hope had been, and the
Page-392
390 _ ass-ram urn.

aim of their Desert life, to keep them pure from Egyptian popular su-
perstitions on the one hand, and the planetary worship of Canaan on
the other: but they were subject to both for some centuries after their
arrival in Palestine ;—avowedly till the completion of the Law, and
the full establishment of the ritual after the time of Josiah; and uncon-
sciously. In several doctrines and many habits of thought, to the very
last. The golden calf at Sinai was not the only one by very many.
Jehovah was still considered, at times if not always, the chief God of
the Hebrews; and this pre-eminence was asserted by the consecration
of golden calves to him exclusively. which indicated him to be the
Anna, or king of the gods to this semi-Egyptian people. These calves
were set up at Dan and Bethel, and on many a high place between.
in the time of Jeroboam.—three generations after the day when David
brought the ark into Jerusalem, bidding its gates be lifted up, that the
King of Glory might come in. —And as for the Planetary idolatry, the
people not only fell. immediately after their arrival. into the worship
of the oriental Apollo and Diana. but the horses of the Sun. and cha-
riots of the Sun, were set up as consecrated images at the very en-
trance of the House of Jehovah, up to the time of Josiah.‘

Another failure was as to the design of Moses to have but one place
of general worship. For this purpose. he had made one tabernacle;
and, as he hoped, secured unity of object of worship by giving them
the Ark. But. while the Ark remained at Kirjath-jearim, there were
many places where the priests set up altars of sacriﬁce. and oﬂieiated
at them: and this went on long after David's great act of taking Jebus,
and enclosing and building upon Mount Zion. and bringing tn the ark
to sanctify his royal city. How painful it is to this hour to remember
that generations after David had sung his exulting praises of Zion and
the sanctuary. in strains which ﬁre the coldest hearts among us. his
people should have been sacriﬁcing In preference to the Sun and Moon.
or consulting the oracles of Jehovah at Shiloh or Nob or elsewhere, or
bowing before little images at home, while the Temple of Jehovah.
with the ark in its Holy Place, was set on a hill in the I)midst of them!
David would rather have been a door-keeper in that House than have
dwelt feasting in the tents of the worshipers of the groves. Solomon‘s
marriage to an Egyptian wife, and Jeroboam’s residence at the court
of Shishak, after Shishak‘s conquest of Jerusalem, were circumstances
unfavorable to the Mosaic faith. The priesthood was not till long
afterwards appropriated solely to the Levites. They might be pre-
ferred. but they were not the only eligible persons for the oﬂiee: nor
were they restricted to serve at the central altars of Jehovah, but am-
ciated In private dwellings. using images. There was thus no body of
persons at that time whose business it was to take charge of the honor
of Jehovah and the religious Interests of the people: and these depended
mainly, therefore. on the mind and character of the king for the time
being. Under the devout David, Jehovah was honored. and his Ark
set on the holy hill. Under Solomon, the national God was so far

' A History of the Hebrew Monarchy, p. 153, note. (Inndon: Chapman.)
Page-393
unsuw nr-rn n was sm’rn on center. 89!

honored as to have a splendid temple erected to him: but there was
nowhere in grosser idolater than the sovereign who did this work :—a
weak, uxorious man, who had an Egyptian wife, and concubines who
worshiped the starsu—As there was at that time no exclusively Levi-
tical priesthood to take charge of the national religion, nor any effectual
centralization of worship. so there were. as far as we can learn. no
imperative and universal Observances. There was certainly no due
observation of the Sabbatical year. nor of the Passover. It appears
that the Passover was never known to have been celebrated till after
the ﬁrst propounding of the complete Law, in the time of Josiah.‘
Two centuries and a half after the reign of Rehoboam, the people
were worshiping the brazen serpent;—one of the commonest objects
of pagan idolatry. Hezekiah “ brake it in pieces;" " for unto those
days the children of Israel did burn incense to it."’t In short, there
was. till the days of Josiah, no centralization by which the people
could be kept steady to any belief or practice: and they, being what
they were. and in the midst of such a world as lay about them. could
be kept in any degree of order by no other me'ans.

When Moses had been ﬁrst compelled to lower his aspirations for
them, and to give them, instead of moral commandments. a ritual from
which might emanate a moral inﬂuence. he had done all that they were
then capable of receiving. He probably saw, what some of the wise
now believe, that the fatal fault of the most reﬁned Egyptian religion.—
the religion of the Mysteries.—was that it was too much a worship of
the Mind. and too little of the Heart: and most strenuous were his
efforts so to reveal God to the Hebrews as to ﬁx on Him their hope
and fear. and, as a national god, their trust and love. His own self-
devotion appears to show that the heart-element did lie in the faith he
propounded; and what it expanded to when it met with such a soul as -
David’s, his divine songs fully show. But there were not among the
Hebrews many such hearts as David’s.—quickene(| and expanded as
his was by his glorious faculty of Imagination and its kindred powers:
and the appeals of pagan worship to their passions were too much for
their forces of either mind or heart. Under its permanent seductions,
drawing them incessantly out of the path of allegiance and sobriety,
there was needed some stronger central attraction and established com-
pulsion than for some ages existed. With no records but ﬂoating
traditions, and perhaps scattered documents; with no exclusive an
limited priesthood, no compulsory celebrations which should include
them all, no one spot solely consecrated to sacriﬁce and worship. and
no pretence at last of preserving purity of race. it is no wonder that
“ every man did that which was right in his own eyes ;" and that many
eyes were much in the dark about what it was right to do. The con-
fusion and demoralization -were perhaps worst in the times of the
Judges. In the kingly institution a centralizing inﬂuence might seem
to have been found; though the wise Samuel was too clear-sighted to
think so.—A king supported by a priestly caste, as in the Egyptian

- 2 Kings XXIII. 21-23. f 2 Kings XVIII. 4.
Page-394
392 IAITIIN Ll".

theocracy, was powerful for the objects needed now: but the Hebrew
theocracy was one which did not admit of such a Priest-king as the
Egyptians had: and the Jewish king could act on the religious mind
of his people only through the prestige of his civil ofﬁce and his per-
sonal qualities: and then, as the history shows, for one true worshiper,
like David and Josiah, they had many idolaters, or intellectual men,
like Solomon, who played fast and loose with several gods. It was
not in the time of the Judges alone that “ every man did that which-
was right in his own eyes." '

In this long interval. however, between the death of Moses and the
great centralization which took place in the time of Josiah, the name
and worship of Jehovah were never lost; were never, indeed, so loftily
honored afterwards as now. At a future time, the people became unit-
ad in the worship of Jehovah; but their formal homage, growing drier
from age to age under the pressure of the priesthood, never rivaled the
devotional sentiment of the prophets. and those whom they inspired.
It is in no view diverging from our subject here, to give in the words
of another a short account of the function of the Hebrew Prophets in
the times prior to the establishment of an exclusive Levitical priesthood;
that is, in times when it was hoped that the guidance, by the Prophets.
of the religious sentiment of the nation would secure its religious ﬁdelity.

“Ancient Polytheism," says our author,‘ “ was always tolerant of
collateral polytheistic systems; and he who venerated numerous deities
was naturally ready to believe that other gods existed. unknown to him,
yet equally deserving of worship. The pure monotheistic faiths, on
the contrary, whether of Zoroaster, Moses or Mohammad. have been
all marked by an intolerance which in that stage of the world could not
be separated from the interests of truth: and on this cardinal point the
unity of Israel was to depend. A noble and pure soul looked with
disgust on the foul errors entangled with Canaanitish and Syrian super-
stitions; and in maintaining the exclusive honor of the national god of
Israel.—the Lord and Creator of Heaven and Earth,—was guilty of no
such mean-spirited sectarianism as might fairly be imputed to one who
contended for a Neptune against an Apollo, an Adonis against a Neith.
The prophet of Jehovah was in fact striving for the pure moral attri-
butes of God.—for holiness against impurity. majesty and goodness
against caprice and cruelty,—for a God whose powers reached to the
utmost limits of space and time, against gods whose being was but of
yesterday, and whose agencies thwarted one another. Nevertheless,
the Hebrew creed was not monotheistic, in the sense of denying the
existence of other gods. It rather degraded them into devils, and set
the omnipotence of Jehovah into proud contrast with their superhuman.
yet limited might, than exploded them as utterly fabulous."

“The prophetsf must on no account be confounded with the
‘priests.”’ . . . “Priests must no doubt have been all but coeval
with the existence of the nation; and at this time they probably lived

' A History of the Hebrew Monarchy, p. 28.
1 lbiJ. p. 31.
Page-395
nasnsw runs as was arms or CHRIST- 893

in knots at particular towns, where certain sacerdotal families happened
to have multiplied, since the character of the priest was essentially
hereditary. His business was'one of routine.—to sacriﬁce, or to burn
incense; to light lamps. to offer shew-bread, or perform some other of
the ceremonies with which ancient religion abounded. It is a striking
fact, that during all Samuel's administration, no one ventured to remove
the Ark from Kirjath-jearim; nor do the priests seem to have been
concerned to take charge of it. But ‘the men of Kirjath-jearim sancti-
ﬁed Eleazer, son of Abinadab, to keep the Ark of Jehovah ;' and under
the care of the same house it is found in the beginning of David's reign .
at Jerusalem (2 Samuel vi. 3). This, however, is but one out of
numerous proofs that the ceremonial system was one which very gra-
dually grew up, and was as yet exceedingly immature.—Except where
lands had been attached! to some sanctuary. the priest must have lived
by the sacriﬁces and other oﬂ‘erings, and only in very rare cases exer-
cised, or sought to exercise, any inﬂuence which can be called spiritual.
But no man became a prophet by birth: he needed some call for the
ofﬁce, with exercise and teaching: nor did the prophets often concern
themselves with mere ceremonies, although they occasio ally intro-
duced symbolic actions of their own, suited to impress the pu lic senses.
Their characteristic emblem was some musical instrument, and their
highest function to compose and sing solemn psalms of religious worship
or instruction. Unlike to the Minstrel of the Greeks, who devoted his
powers to ﬂatter chieftains and amuse the crowd; or to the later lyrist,
who composetltlaudatory odes for pecuniary recompense :—more like
in some respects to a patriotic Tyrtteus, or to a Welsh bard ;—the
Hebrew prophet diﬂ‘ered essentially in this, that his ﬁrst and great aim
was to please and honor God, in faith that from obedience to Him the
highest good of man would assuredly follow."

The time arrived when these spiritual leaders, the Prophets, gave
place to the Priests: an order of men of whom nothing has been thus
far told which leads us to believe that they were of great importance as
a caste. Their genealogy was not pure: they were dispersed about
the country. serving at diﬂ'erent altars, and even in private families.
During the reign of Ahab and Jezebel, they lived side by side with the
priests of Baal, against whom the prophets wrought to their utter de-
struction. It was a remarkable state of things when Elijah was at
Mount Carmel. ordaining the slaughter of the priests of Baal at the
river Kishon, and the priests of Jehovah were living quietly at Jeru-
salem, seeing the temples of the two gods standing within view of each
other, and themselves associating with the priests of the Sun. It was
in the time of Athaliah, as we all know. that this state of things came
to an end. It was then that Jehoiada put down at once the queen and
the false god, and established the priesthood in that position which it
thenceforward maintained. whenever the nation held up its head.—
There is no need to say anything here of the Hebrew priesthood; for
almost everything that has been said of the Egyptian will answer as an
exact description. When it became a Levitical priesthood, a heredi-
tary caste, including all the higher professions, and subsisting by exclu-
Page-396
394 xasrsss ms.

sive intermarriage, it was altogether Egyptian. except that it was not
necessary that the king should be chosen out of this caste, or should
pass through it.—Up to this time, and yet more remarkably afterwards.
there was constant and abundant intercourse between the Hebrews and
Egypt. Whether the monarchs were at war or in alliance, whether
the Egyptians came up against Jerusalem, or to march through into
Assyria. they were often in Palestine; and there seems to have been a
pretty constant inﬂux of Jews into Egypt, till they had, as we know,
ﬁve cities, and a great Temple to Jehovah in the very place where
Moses had sat to learn of the priests of Egypt. It is no wonder, there«
fore, that the Egyptian and Jewish priesthoods bore an almost exact
resemblance to each other. nor that we ﬁnd everywhere Egyptian
elements in the faith and philosophy of the Hebrews. ,

It is believed by the learned, that during two centuries and a half
after the full assumption of power by the priesthood under Jehoiada.
the four ﬁrst books of the Psntateuch were probably compiled from
existing documents and other means of knowledge; and that, ﬁnally,
the book of Deuteronomy was written, and brought out with the others,
in the time of Josiah,‘ to work the greatest change in the religious
condition of the Hebrews, which had happened since they left Mount
Sinai. The books of the Law were then found in the Ark; in the
Ark which is declared to have been empty at preceding dates; and a
multitude of particulars in the books themselves prove, as biblical scho-
lars have shown, that they could not have been reduced to their pre-
sent form before the dates here assigned. For the consternation of
King Josiah, and the sensation excited among the people by the denun-
ciations against idolatry—especially the prevalent idolatry of the coun-
try—we need only refer to the history. Our business with the event
is to mark its eﬂ'ect on the Religious Thought of the nation.

From this time, the Hebrews became much more steady in their al-
legiance to Jehovah. They had now a recognized caste, to take charge
of their religious concerns; an established ritual. which occupied their
thoughts and feelings, and trained them in habits of observahce; and
they had a central place of meeting—a type of unity—before their
eyes. But under this system. though idolatrous vagaries were re-
pressed, the religious life of the people died out; as religious vitality
ever does die out from the hour when it becomes the charge of a priest-
hood. From this time. till Christ arose to free it from its trammels.
and revive its life, the religious sentiment of the nation wasted sway
under the bondage of the Law, the formality of the priesthood, and the
sectarianism which inevitably springs up where the administration of
religion is appropriated by any body of men. This was the great cri-
sis in the mind of the Hebrew people—whatever crises remained for
their fortunes. Between the Exodus and the coming of Christ, there
was no other point of time which so affected their religious state. Hi-
therto they had hovered among the idolatries of the surrounding na-
tions, and had largely intermingled with some of them by marriage;

' A History of the Hebrew Monarchy, ch. ix.
Page-397
seesaw ram-t a1- rns start-t or casts'r. 890

so that for centuries they had been a mongrel people. Now, all this
was changed. The Prophets had almost died out; the Priests and
Levites had risen; the Law included the whole people within a well-
guarded fold; and henceforth they were to be “ a peculiar people.” as
exclusive as they had hitherto been vagrant and careless. In this ex-
clusiveness they immediately began to harden; and what point of hard-
ness, of pride, and legality of worship they had reached by the time
of Christ's coming, his history shows.

Now that there was a Law—a complete, tangible, recorded Law-—
that body of men called Lawyers arose. Before this time, they were
never heard of. Now they began to study, interpret, and expound the
Law. and, in proportion as the nation became consolidated, they rose
to ﬁll the important place which. they held when Christ stood in the
Temple, six centuries after this consolidation of written memorials, and
perhaps oral tradition, from the time of Moses downwards, into a sys-
tem of statute Law. This origin of Rabbinism seems to have as much
connection with Egypt as the originof the Hebrew faith. ritual and litera«
ture. As the author of the history above quoted says,‘ “ Ever since
the reign of Uzziah, the intercourse with Egypt had been steadily on
the increase; and the colonies of Jews and Israelites there were so
considerable, that the absentees in Egypt, and the exiles in Assyria.
are often spoken of in one breath, (which, indeed, we have seen in
Isaiah.) as though co-ordinate and almost commensurate. Although
Egyptian art, perhaps, was sinking, Egyptian learning must have been
at its height in Isaiah's day; and wealthy Jews established in that
country, where all the trials before a judge are said to have gone on in
writing, would necessarily gain more deﬁnite ideas of the value of a
complete written body of statutes accessible to all. Communication
with the exiles in the cultivated cities of Assyria, must have had the
same tendency." Here again we have that conjunction which, in re-
gard to religious matters, Moses so dreaded, and from which dread he
made of his people a Desert tribe for so long—the intermingling of the
Hebrews with the Egyptians on the one hand,and their eastern neigh-
bors on the other; and, according to our author, the Thought of these
different peoples was probably infused into the Law of the Hebrews.
no less than into their faith and their traditions. I-Ie saysa‘ “ In the new
school there must have been very various minds; some disposed to
heathenism and Egyptian mysteries, others simple as Moses; yet all
eager for Levitical aggrandizement.”

As it is the religious life of the nation that we are now glancing back
upon. it is not necessary to say more of the Captivity, than that when
the Remnant returned, they immediately placed themselves under their
own Law and ordinances, under the protection of Persia. They sought
their old homes, on their arrival, and provided necessaries for their fa-
milies, and then, a month after their return, assembled at Jerusalem,
reared an altar among the ruins of the " beautiful House" which 80-

' A History of the Hebrew Monarchy. p. 319.
1 11nd.I p. 319.
Page-398
896 IASTIRN am.

lomon had built, offered sacrifices. and lrept the feast of Tabernacles.
Then followed the rebuilding of the Temple. and the return of Ezra,
the priest and scribe, to look to the thorough re-establishment of the
Law and Worship of his people. He annulled the marriages with hea-
thens which had taken place during the interval of uncertainty and de-
pression; and almost before his work of ecclesiastical puriﬁcation was
completed, Nehemiah arrived to look to the rebuilding of the walls of
Jerusalem. While Nehemiah was superintending this work. Ezra
ﬁnished his revisal of the sacred books, and settled the Old Testament
canon. He changed the text from the old Hebrew to the Chaldee,
which was now more intelligible to the people.‘ The Samaritans not
choosing to adopt the change. the old character was henceforth called
the Samaritan text. The language itself having become strange to the
returned Jews. they needed an interpretation: and in order to give them
one, that solemn public reading was held which is recorded in the 8th
chapter of Nehemiah, when Ezra the Scribe and his coadjutors “ read
in the book in the law of God distinctly, and gave the sense, and caused
them to understand the reading.”

And now occurs a very interesting period in the religious life of the
Jews :—the rise of the sect of the Pharisees. At what time precisely
they became'a sect, there is no saying now. Josephus. who was one
of them, only knew that they existed long before his time. They cer-
tainly arose after the promulgation of the law: and probably very soon
after; their particular function.—of delivering the oral lam—being in-
dicated by the written law coming into common use. The main doc-
trine of the Pharisees was that Aaron had handed down an oral law,
and set of traditions, to accompany the written law: and that the tra-
ditions were the more important and valuable of the two. and to be
used for the interpretation of the written law. As they professed to
hold these traditions, there would have been hardly any limits to their

war, if their claims had been fully and universally admitted—as we

now they were not. There were balancing sects; and we see in
the denunciations. both of the Baptist and of Jesus, how the Pharisees
were regarded by those who were reared in. or inclined towards. the
principles of a different seen—The Pharisaic body including men of
education only, it is natural that some of its doctrines should be of
foreign derivation. They were the “ hibliolators" of the Jews. sacri-
ﬁcing the spirit and meaning to the letter of their sacred records; and
building up on every phrase of this letter a structure of arbitrary mean-
ings which made the record “ of none eﬂ'ect." Some of their materials
for commentary was derived from the Egyptians, and some from the
Greeks (who derived their opinions from Egypt) and some from the
East. Their Pythagorean doctrines about death and the soul were. as
we have before said in connection with Pythagoras himself. coincident
with those of the Egyptians. They believed in the abode of the dead
in Hades: in the immediate and eternal damnation of the souls of the
desperately wicked ; and in the transmigration of all other souls. They

' Palestine, Kitto. p. 653.
Page-399
naaasw FAITH u- was emu or earlier. 397

believed in a partial necessity; enough to authorize their doctrine of a
providence; but so partial as to permit them to punish heretical opinion
severely, while they visited moral crime but lightly. Such is the ac-
count given by Josephus the Pbarisee. They believed in the existence
of angels. good and bad; and agreed with the Egyptians in the asser-
tion that. the chief of the good angels.—the ﬁrst of the sons of the Su-
preme, was uncreated, and capable of manifestation on earth, for bene-
ﬁcent objects. This was evidently the Osiris of the Egyptians. the
Logos of the Platonists, and the Second Person of the Trinity set forth
by the Platonizing Christians in a later age. They believed in bad
angels as well as good, and perpetuated that doctrine of a power of evil
.whieh In their time had been imported from other faiths. tn directoppo-
sition to the purer doctrine taught by Isaiah, xlv. 7. Their great re-
maining tenet was truly and exclusively Jewish 3 that Jehovah was so
bound to his people as that he could not condemn nor forsake them.
but was obliged to grant them a Messiah, and eternal prosperity.—As
for their practical life, they were likened. as Josephus tells us. to the
Stoics: and they professed extreme and exalted virtue: but, by means
of their oral law. there was always an escape for those who desired
tone; and the result seems to have been that while the most ostenta-
tious and conspicuous of the Pharisees were disagreeable and danger-
ous from their sanctimoniousness and legal morality, the majority of
them were much like other people,—good or bad more in proportion
to their natural constitution and position than through the abstract doc-
trines they held. That they held such docrines is, however. a matter
of the highest interest to us. That there were humble and teachable
Pharisees is as certain as that there are proud and selﬁsh Christians.
Nicodemus and Joseph of Arimathea, and other men who could stoop
to learn, were Pharisees.—Dr. Kitto, after speaking of their temper and
conduct. observes,‘ “ Of their doctrines. as far as they went. and as far
as they are noticed, Christ and his apostles appear to have thought more
favorably—or. at least, they are much preferred to the opposite doctrine
of the Sadducees.”

In opposition to the Pharisees,—the Traditionists,—arose the sect
of the Anti-traditionists. the Sadducees, whose doctrines are soon told,
as their profession consisted chieﬂy of negations. They denied the
existence of any spiritual beings but Jehovah himself. and therefore the
future existence of man. It is noticeable that in this, and in its neces-
sary consequence, their inexorable punishment of moral oﬂ'ences, they
were primitive Hebrews.'—close followers of Moses. And they strictly
adhered to the recorded law. rejecting traditions altogether. They held
the doctrine of free-will to its utmost extent, which indeed was neces-
sary under their practice of inexorable retribution. The date of the
rise of this sect is not more clearly known than that of the Pharisees:
but it is evident that the doctrines of the Sadducees had a large inter-
mixture from the Greek: and they were held by the literary and tra-
veled men of the Hebrew aristocracy: by those who were most likely

‘ Palestine, p. 719.