
Page-400
390 sun“ tan.

to be conversant with Greek writings. and with such strangers from
that country as occasionally visited Jerusalem. It was they who car-
ried some Greek elements into the deliberations of the Sanhedrim,
where they were the most powerful party in the time of Christ, and
into the administration of the priestly ofﬁce; for Caiaphas and Anauias,
high priests, were Sadducees. Though they were more primitive
Mosaists than the Pharisees. they were not more acceptable to Jesus.
Their aristocratic tendencies. their skepticism and pride of intellect.
and their corrupting doctrine of free-will, were all diametrically opposed
to the views and aspirations of one who came to oﬂ‘er his glad tidings
to the pooer give rest to the souls of the weary and heavy laden.—
and to teach that not a sparrow falls to the ground without the ordina-
tion of God z—of one, in short, whose sympathies were with the re-
maining seen—the Essence.

It is impossible to enter philosophically in any degree into the mind
of Christ. without considering how large an element of his tho
was the life and doctrine of the Essenes. When we read of them in
Josephus and Philo, we see reﬂected back as in a mirror the life of the
gospel or, at least, the idea of that life which was held by the early
Christians. The Sermon on the Mount might be taken as one long
blessing on the Essenes,—the non-resistants. the abjurers of property,
the humble, the mortiﬁed. the industrious. the charitable! The lead-
ing object—the central purpose—of the Essenes was that of fulﬁlling
the Moral Ideal of the Law. While the Pharisees were allegorizing.
and heaping traditions upon the original structure of the Mosaic sys-
tem, and the Sadducees were rigidly preserving and adhering to the
simplicity of that structure, the Essenes gave their whole mind to the
ascertainment and realization of its moral import. There is no doubt
that they added much to the meaning of Moses. and saw many moral
principles and practices in his system which he never put there: and it
is clear that their additions were derived from Egypt and Greece. There
was a close aﬁnity between them and the Pythagoreans who resorted to
Egypt' In great numbers, when their schools in Europe were broken
up. The Essene communities in Egypt and Palestine, between which
a brotherly Intercourse was always going on, were mainly Pythagorean
in their discipline. and in their mysteries . and so remarkably Chris-
tian in their moral doctrine and practices. that it was long supposed
that Philo, giving an account of the Egyptian Essence. was a Christian
giving an account of a Christian community. There is no question,
however. of their prosperous existence for some centuries before the
birth of Christ. Their societies undoubtedly formed the model of the
ﬁrst Christian communities, and of subsequent monastic associations.
They held their goods in common. forbidding a man to have two
cloaks or two slaves. and not allowing him to be in want of one.
They were in the strictest sense Necessarians, going far beyond the
Pharisees in this particular, and not being exceeded by the Moham-
medans themselves. They believed that the hairs of men’s heads were
all numbered, and that every moment of their thoughts was determined
by an immutable providence. They held that men are truly and prac-
Page-401
HEBREW FAITH AT THE BIRTH OF CHRIST. 399

tically brethren. under the Paternity of God: a most memorable
advance upon the morality of the then existing world. They refused
to call any man Master upon earth, denouncing slavery, and discounte-
nancing every kind of servitude. They ordered obedience to the civil
power. but no participation in it. All political action was discounten
nanced; and absolute non-resistance, giving the cheek to the smiter
rather than raising the hand, was inculcated. With this went unli-
mited forgiveness of injuries. They might have had for their motto
that glorious text of the Kurin, “ To endure and to pardon is the wis-
dom of life." They taught that the best temper for man consisted in
three affections: Love of God; love of the Truth, and love of Man:
and that the best employments of man corresponded to these: viz.,
contemplation, and healing the bodies and souls of men. Hence the
name of Therapeutre. which they bore in Egypt. They called them-
selves, and were called by others, Physicians of bodies and souls.
While abstaining from marriage themselves, as a matter of expediency,
they opened their arms to children, out of love to them for their purity,
as well as compassion for their helplessness. They might have in-
scribed over their doors the words, “ Suﬁ'er the little children to come
unto us, and forbid them not: for of such is the kingdom of heaven :”
and the children did go to them, and were taken in and cherished, as
were the hungry and the naked, and the sick and miserable. They
reprobated oaths. and practised the utmost plainness of speech, think-
ing that all exaggerations of their Yen and Nay came of evil.—Another
primary point with them was strictness of truth z—their Yea was yes,
and their Nay nay.‘

In estimating the religious elements of Jewish life before the time of
Christ, it is impossible not to be struck with the coincidences between
the life and doctrine of the Essence and the life and doctrine of Jesus:
and further, when we read his rebukes of the other two sects. and ob-
serve that he nowhere denounces any practice of the Essenes, while
incessantly preaching their views of truth, and inculcating their mo-
rality, it is clear that they enjoyed his favor. In the opinion of learned
men.‘l‘ there is much evidence to show that the Baptist was an Essene
of the anchorite order, “ being in the deserts till the time of his show-
ing unto lsrael."i There were two orders in the body of the Essenes;
the contemplative and the, practical. The contemplative were the Jew-
ish anchorites in Egypt, who retired to caves and fastnesses while
Cambyses ravaged the valley of the Nile; and who afterwards were
the models of the Christian hermits who were sprinkled among the
desert rocks of Egypt. Of this order it is that John was supposed to
be. with his desert dress and food.—The other order lived, as has been
said, in community, employed in works of charity as well as in con-
templation. The Essenes of Palestine are declared by Josephus to
have been of this second order: and their chief establishment was on
the western shore of the Dead Sea :—that is, in the neighborhood of

' Philo, De Vita Contemplativa. Josephus, Antiq, Book XVIII. ch. 2.
1' See Taylor in Calmet, “Dictionary to the Bible." I Luke I. 80.
Page-402
400 smears use.

the Baptist’s home.—“ in the hill country of Judea."—Jesus was for
some time a disciple of John, with evidently no thought. at that period.
of a higher destiny for himself. From this. from the celibacy of both,
(otherwise a fault and reproach among the Jews.) from the omission
of all rebuke of this sect alone, and from his incessant promulgation of
the Essene doctrine and morality. it appears that those scholars are
probably right who believe that Jesus received. like thousands of the
Jewish youth of his day. his training from the Essenes. The number
of the professed Essenes at that time was four thousand in Palestine;
and these were the teachers of a multitude of the next generation. In
Egypt. the sect was much larger.

There is no need to point out the faults and dangers of the
Essene institutions. They were the same as are found in all forms of
monastic life. and all schemes of mystical religion. While admiri
the singular beauty (80 endeared to us by our Christian association's}
of their principles of worship, affection and action. we see in their
celibacy and other asceticism. and their uniform rule of life for all
comers. the same liabilities and errors as belong to monastic life every-
where, under all systems of faith. In the somewhat ascetic, and en-
tirely non-resistant character which the Glad Tidings of Jesus derived
from this element of their origin, we certainly see the prophecy of the
rise of Mohammedanism in the world. and its temporary spread to a
wider extent than its parent Christianity: but we are at the same time
struck.wit|1 the glorious liberality of those Glad Tidings. and their
exemption from all the errors and extravagances which were incorpo-
rated with the Essene scheme and its workings.

During the infancy and growth of all these sects. political events
succeeded one another. of such a kind. and in such an order. as to
bring a great accession of ideas to the Jewish mind, and cause a wide
association with the minds of other countries.

Alexander the Great came, after his destruction of Tyre. (a. c. 332.)
,to chastise Jerusalem. because the High Priest had pleaded his oath of
allegiance to Darius. He was met on the heights of Sapha. within
View of Jerusalem, by the High Priest and a long train of attendant
priests, and citizens in white garments. who came forth to set before
the conqueror the claims and the threats of Jehovah: and then, as the
history tells.‘ he did what he afterwards did when a similar train met
him from Memphis :—he went out to meet' the High Priest Jaddua,
and adored the Name inscribed on his mitre, declaring to his Greek
attendants that what he worshiped was not the minister of Jehovah.
but the great God whom he represented. And here, as afterwards in
honor of Amun, he sacriﬁced in honor of the Supreme God, and se-
cured to the people the enjoyment of their own laws and their accus-
tomed privileges. Parmenio was by his side; and many Greek phi-
losophers and learned men in his train, who freely associated with the
higher classes of the Jews.—And then ensued that period of Egyptian
protection,—sixty years of repose while the Jews paid tribute to the

' Josephus, Antiq. X1, 8, 4, 5.
Page-403
unsalw nun A'f was nut-m or center. 401

Ptolemies, and had unrestricted intercourse with the Egyptian priest-
hood. and liberty to dwell, and build, and worship. at Alexandria and
Heliopolis,—which had great eﬂ'ect in enlarging the minds of the Jew-
ish sects, and abolishing their nationality of thought and feeling. At
this time, the prevalence of Greek proper names in Jewish families
shows how intimate was the intercourse of those two nations. As Dr.
Kitto observes,‘ “there is ample evidence that the more opulent classes
cultivated the language, and imbibed some of the manners of the Greeks.
It is also apparentthat some acquaintance with the Greek philosophers
was obtained, and made wild work In Jewish minds "—And afterwards
came the dread power of Rome, to lay waste Jerusalem by its agents,
the generals of Antiochus, when, on a certain memorable Sabbath, the
streets of Jerusalem ﬂowed with blood, and the most awful of all events
happened,—the suspension of the daily sacriﬁce. It was in the month
of June (a. c. 167) that this took place, and that Jerusalem was com-
pletely deserted. the surviving inhabitants taking refuge among the
nearest of the gentiles. The temple was then dedicated, at the com-

- mand of Antiochus, to Jupiter Olympius‘; an altar to the heathen god
was set up upon that hitherto sacred to Jehovah, and the people were
instructed in the Greek religion by teachers sent among them for the
purpose.‘i—Then arose the Asmonean family, to restore the national
worship, and reconstitute the Jewish people. They might overthrow
the heathen altars, and declare again the name of Jehovah; but they
could not drive out the Greek elements which had found their way into
the Jewish mind, or depress the sect of the Sadducees which rose into
a ﬂourishing condition by means of them. The army of Judas Mac-
cabsaus came to Mount Zion, and cast ashes on their heads when they
saw how the temple of Jehovah lay open to the winds, and how its
“ courts were grown over with shrubs, as in the forest, or on the moun-
tain.” They might and did repair the temple; but they could not
undo that desecration of the national mind which had taken place from
the intrusion of the heathen.

Then ensued the enmity between the Pharisees and the Asmonean
princes, which, as either cause or consequence of the interference of
that sect in public aﬂ'airs,1 could not but have a great inﬂuence on reli-
gious opinion in Palestine. The Asmonean house went over to the
Sadducees; and a bitter war of opinion ensued, fatal to unity of faith
throughout the nation. —-The next time we look towards the temple,
we ﬁnd Pompey in it,—intruding with his otﬁcers actually into the
Holy of Holies. He captured it s. o. 63, on the very day kept sacred
as a mourning fast by the Jews, as the anniversary of the conquest of
Jerusalem by Nebuchadnezzar. This was the date of the establish-
ment of the Roman power in Palestine. The walls of the city were
demolished, and the Jews became tributary to Rome.

It is observable that Egyptian worship was at this time and after-
wards so eagerly followed in Italy, “ that Augustus made a law that no

' Kitto's Palestine, p. 674. 1’ Ibid., pp. 685, 686.
1 Ibid, p. 705.

26
Page-404
402 mamas Lira.

Egyptian ceremonies should enter the city, or even the suburbs of
Rome.“ And again, it is remarkable that the Egyptian and Jewish
faiths were classed together by the authorities at Rome. Tacitus tells
us that “ the Roman Senate made a new law (a. n. 19) against the
Egyptian and Jewish superstitions, and banished'to Sardinia four thou-
sand men who were found guilty of being Jews.”i

Nothing is more striking to the students of these critical times of
the world’s history than the evidence of the wide intercourse of minds
which existed in ages when we are apt to suppose that, for want of the
art of printing. nations were shut up within themselves, and remained
as exclusive in their characteristics of mind as of race. We should
remember that war acted upon them almost as powertiilly as commerce
does upon us, and quite diﬁ‘erently from the warfare of modern times.
It not only opened countries to each other, but brought the respective
citizens face to face. A colonial or other connection usually w up
out of war ; and the wisest men of either country traveled in t e terri-
tory of the other; and there was frequently an exchange of citizens.
The countries of the old world had commerce too. It did not occa-
sion the extensive intercourse of modern times, nor intermingle diﬁ'er’
ent people to such a degree as war: but it wrought in its own way.
We must also consider that if the ancients had not our extensive cir-
culation of books, they had, on that account, for more earnestness in
their inquiry after new ideas, and their reception of them. When
sages and priests met face to face, from distant countries, they impressed
one another far more deeply than we are often impressed by books;
and their pursuit of philosophy'was much more serious than ours. It
appears that the Jews had their full share of the advantages of foreign
intercourses; and that they were so far from being the homogeneous
and separate people that they are ordinarily supposed to be, that abun-
dant foreign elements entered into their constitution, both of mind and
race, from the time of their entrance upon the Promised Land to that
of their ﬁnal dispersion.

It cannot be overlooked, in this review, how large was the Egyptian
element, in comparison with every other. On every .side, except the
east. it was continually, however silently, ﬂowing in. The Hebrew
mind was fed by the Egyptian incessantly, throughout its whole exist-
ence. Besides what the Jews obtained from Moses, and by all their
direct fratemization with the Egyptians, at intervals, for many ages, the
Egyptian mind communicated with theirs through the Greeks, the
Syrians, and the Romans; so that to understand their faith. their ordio
nances, their philosophy, their sects, their monachism, their history,
and their literature, it is necessary to go back to Egypt for the key.
To a certain extent, the case is the same with some other nations.—
with the Greeks and the Etruscans especially; but the strongestaﬂinity
we know of among ancient peoples was that between the Egyptians
and the Hebrews; and it is highly necessary not to lose sight of this
kindred relation in exploring the mind of the Jewish people at any
assigned period.

' Sharpe‘s History of Egypt, 1:. 356. 1’ Ibid., p. 363.
Page-405
unusual. 403

Herod began rebuilding the temple a.c. l7; and it was ﬁt for the
resumption of the service in 13.0. '7. It was this new structure that
Jesus and his disciples were contemplating when they spoke of its
having been “ forty and six years in buildi ." Here it was that he
found the Pharisees haughtily insisting on t e minutiae of their ritual,
and elaborating their Pythagorean doctrines of the soul and its pros-
pects. Here it was that he found the Scribes expounding the law to
those who could never hope to understand its intricacies without
help. Here it was that he found the Sadducses contending for the
simplicity of the primitive Law. and for that Majesty of Jehovah which
forbade his interference with the affairs of men. Here it was that he
saw carried to the altar, the sacriﬁces sent by Essenes who would not
personally mingle in the pumps and vanities of a ritual worship. Here
it was that he found, brought in by the four winds, and intermingling
like the fumes of the incense and the smoke of the sacriﬁce, all that the
minds of distant nations had to offer before the sanctuary of the true
God; the wisdom of the Egyptians, the science of the Assyrians, the
philosophy of the Greeks, and the now strict monotheism of the He-
brews. Here it was that he, by his god-like nature, gathered into him~
self and assimilated all that was true, deep. noble, and endearing in this
world-wide range of thought, and gave it forth again, in such a music
of Glad Tidings, ringing clear under that temple roof, as that every
heart felt,—“ never man spake like this man !"

 

CHAPTER III.

JERUSALEM.—THE ENGLISH MISSION.—MOSQUE 0F 0MAR.—JEWS’
PLACE OF WAILING.‘—VALLEY OF JEHOSHAPHAT.——GREEK FIRE.
-—DAVID’S TOMB AND CENACULUM.—ARMENIAN CONVENT.—LE-
“Ella—CAVE 0F J EREMIAH.—EN VIRON 8.

WI: considered ourselves most fortunate in our lodgment at Jerusa-
lem 3—1 mean in the position of our rooms at Salvador’s hotel. The
house would not contain the whole of our party, and three went to
lodgings. But we ladies had light airy rooms opening upon the high-
est platform of the hotel; this platform being the roof of a lower set of
chambers. I was never tired of gazing abroad From the parapet of our
little terrace, from which I could command a large extent of the ﬂat
roofs of the city, and of its picturesque walls. The narrow, winding
street far below, which we overlooked almost from end to end, was the
Via Dolorosa; and it was spanned midway by the Ecce Homo arch.
This Mournful Way, where I rarely saw any one walking, attracted
the eye all the more from its being almost the only street we had a
glimpse of ; the streets of Eastern cities being so narrow as not to be
visible from a height. Some few were traceable by a comparison of
the lines of house tops, and the guidance of the minarets which sprang
from among the roofs, tall and light as the poplar from the long grass
of the meadow: but the only street which we could look down into
Page-406
404 mm.

wu the Via Dolorosa. Beyond the city, and directly opposite. rose
the long slope of Olivet. It was now the time of full moon : and even-
ing after evening. I leaned on that parapet. watching for the coming
up of the large yellow moon behind the ridge of the Mount of Olives.
By day the slopes of the Mount were green with the springing wheat.
and dappled with the shade of the Olive clumps. By night. those
clumps and lines of trees were dark amidst the lights and shadows
cast by the moon; and they guided the eye. in the absence of daylight,
to the most interesting points, the descent to the brook Kedron. the
road to Bethany. and the place whence Jesus is said to have looked
over upon the noble city when he pronounced its doom.

It is still a noble city. The Jebusites certainly chose for their fort
one of the ﬁnest sites in the world; and when David tool: it from them,
he might well glory in his beautiful Zion. From this day forward
how dead seemed to me all my former impressions of Jerusalem !-—not
of its sacredness, but of its beauty and nobleness. I can scarcely re-
member the time when 1 did not know familiarly all its hills, and its
gates. and its temple courts. so as to read the New Testament as with
a plan in my head. But I never had the slightest conception of that
beauty which now at once enabled me to enter into the exultation of
David. and the mourning of Nehemiah. and the generous concern of
Titus, and the pride of the Saracen, and the enthusiasm of the Cru-
sader. The mournful love of the Holy City grew from day to day, as
I became familiar with its precincts; but no single View so took me by
surprise as that which we obtained in the course of ourwalk this ﬁrst day.

There is a strange charm in the mere streets. from the picturesque
character of the walls and archways. The old walls of yellow stone
are so beautifully tufted with weeds, that one longs to paint every angle
and projection, with its mellow coloring. and dangling and trailing gar-
lands. And the shadowy archwaya, where the vaulted roofs intersect
each other, till they are lost in the dazzle of the sunshine beyond, are
like a noble dream. The pavement is the worst I ever walked on :—
worsc than Cologne; worse than my native city of Norwich: but being
a native of Norwich, and having been familiar with its pavement for
thirty years. I was not so distressed as my companions. who could
hardly make their way in Jerusalem over the large, slippery stones.
slanting all manner of ways.

We found the bazaars much crowded, this ﬁrst day, and abounding
in fruits and vegetables. It was Holy Week, which accounted for the
throng, and for the display of oranges. lemons, figs. nuts and almonds,
pumpkins and cucumbers. The lightness of the complexions, and the
mild beauty of the faces were very striking, after so many weeks
among the Arabs in the Desert.

We were now on our way to the English church. from which we
obtained the ﬁne view I have alluded to. The walls of this new church
were up.and the pillars rising; and a spiral staircase at one corner was
so ﬁnished as that we could mount. Some of our party exclaimed at
the smallness of this pretty new church; but I much doubt whether there
will ever be Jewish converts enough to ﬁll it. I should have supposed
that any consideration at home of the genius of the Jewish religion, and
Page-407
m menus luston. 405

much more on the spot, would have shown the unsoundness of the
scheme. Those who are intimate with the minds of educated and con-
scientious Jews are aware that such cannotbe converted to Christianity;
that the very foundation of their faith cannot support that superstruc/
ture: that there can be, to them, no reason why they should change,
and every conceivable reason why they should not. They well know
that it is only the ill-grounded Jew who can be converted; the weak,
the ignorant, or the needy and immoral. After all these years. the
converts are very few; they are not all Jews; and there is a diﬁiculty
about the maintenance of even those few. There was talk, when we
were at Jerusalem, of endeavoring to set up a House of Industry, be-
cause the converts of course become outcasts from their own people.
Those who withdraw these converts from their old connections, habits,
principles and intercourses, are indeed under an obligation to supply
them with new; but it is to be hoped that they consider well what they
are doing, and how tremendous a responsibility they are taking on
themselves, as regards the morale, as well as the fortunes of their con-
verts. It is no light matter to subvert a man’s habits of mind and life,
to isolate him in the midst of his own city and race, and render him
wholly dependent on his religious teachers. It should be well con-
sidered whether the loss of the faith of his fathers, and the radical
shaking of his own; the exclusion from family, society. and employ-
ment; the loss of tranquillity. and the great moral dangers of such an
uprooting as none but a Jew can ever experience, are really compen-
sated for by anything that the Mission at Jerusalem has-hitherto found
itself able to impart. It scarcely needs to be pointed out, in regard to
this proposed House of Industry, thatwhen once the Mission becomes
an alms-house affair, before the eyes of the city—a city full of Mo-
hammedans and Jews who already regard the Protestant Christians with
utter contempt—there is an end to all hope of converting any but the
alms-house order of people ;—the needy and lazy. The hospital
of the Mission is an interesting establishment, and, to all appearance,
well managed. If the Mission is to be a charitable institution, well and
good. (supposing it to be proved. as a charity, worth its cost:) only let it
be called so: that a vast expense may perhaps be saved, which is sorely
craved by our heathens at home, who are unquestionably in afar worse
state of spiritual destitution than the Jews in Palestine. While we
have millions of savages in our own island—heathens without heathen
gods—I cannot see why we should spend on a handful of strangers
who have already a noble faith of their own, the resources which would
support Home Missions to a much greater extent. Time will show:
but my own persuasion is that the Jerusalem Mission cannot, from errors
inherent in its very conception, long‘endure. 0n the Good Friday
when we were there, ﬁve Jews—three men and two women—were
baptized: and one of the ladies of the Mission told me that the number
of converts was sixty in the thirteen years since the ﬁrst etl'ort was
made. We were attended by their ﬁrst convert, Abdallah, as a guide.
He was not a Jew. but a Druse. He was an obliging, genial fellow.
who told us that he very much wished to be mentioned in a book, if I
Page-408
406 annu- am.

should write one. He pressed for a recommendatory certiﬁcate from
me and others of our party. 1 did not know enough of him to grant
his request. and was advised against it by those who had reason to
know him. We were none of us, however, disposed to bear hard on
the rapacity of any poor fellow who. cast out from his old faith and
connections, was deprived of his means of bread.

The congregation in the little church used by the Mission till their
own is completed. was very small. even on Good Friday. Deducting
the Mission families and our own large company. there were few leﬁ
over. We went to church that day with feelings of no ordinary in-
terest. A Christian service at Jerusalem on Good Friday! It wu an
occasion which might rouse the most indifferent. So I should have
thought: but never was I present at a service so utterly dead. This
was not a matter of opinion: the deadness was a piain matter of fact.
I am aware that it must be so with Missions in foreign lands. under-the
discouragements of the position, and in the absence of the intellectual
stir and spiritual sympathy which naturally and continually occur at
home: but yet I did wonder whether the converts could ﬁnd in a ser-
vice like this as much spiritual interest and beneﬁt as their brethren
without experience every Sabbath in the time-hallowed services of the
synagogue. 0f the qualiﬁcations of the Bishop in every way. and the
sincerity of his clergy. I never heard or conceived a doubt. The im-
pediments to adequate success are in the very nature of the enterprise.
and the position of the parties, and are, as I thinkrwill be proved, in-
superable by them.

Our ﬁrst View over the whole city was from the top of the Mission
Church. The extent and handsome appearance of Jerusalem surpriced
us. The population is said not to exceed ﬁfteen thousand: but the
city covers a great extent of ground, from the courts which are en-
closed by eastern honses, and the large unoccupied spaces which lie
within the walls. The massive stone walls and substantial character
of the buildings remove every appearance of sordidness, when the
place is seen from a height: and the clearness of the atmosphere, and
the hue of the building-material. give a clean and cheerful air to the
whole, which accords little with the traveler's preconception of the
fallen state of Jerusalem. The environs look fertile and ﬂourishing.
except where the Moab mountains rise lofty and bare, but adorned
with the heavenly hues belonging to the glorious climate. The mina-
rets glittered against the clear sky; and the arches, marble platform,
and splendid variegated buildings of the Mosque of Omar, crowning
the heights of Moriah. were very beautiful. We were glad to hear
from the Consul’s lady that the climate is found very healthy, there
being always a fresh breeze. in the hottest summer weather.

0n Good Friday. we took a very interesting walk. [n the course
of it. we saw the interior of a Jewish house, where the gentlemen went
on business. The handsome lady of the house invited me to the raised
part of the apartment, while the gentlemen sat below. awaiting the
host, who was so picturesque a ﬁgure, with his two caps—one on the
top of the other—his marked Jewish features, and graceful attitudes,
Page-409
losqns or else. 407

his spectacles and vast heard, that I longed to carry away a sketch of
him. The women of the household had'very fair complexions and
blue eyes. As for the apartment, the ﬂoor was rickety; and so were
the two bedsteads. The table-cloth. strewed with the crumbs of the
late meal. was absolutely ﬁlthy ; while there was a great quantity of
plate, massive and old-fashioned, on a- sideboard ; the cushions of the
deewin were of rich brocade ; and some prints of eminent living Jews
hung round the walls. The dress of the Jewish women is deforming
to the ﬁgure, but very becoming to the head. The turbans of the men,
chieﬂy blue or white, are substantial and lofty,like the priests’ helmets
which we see in old pictures. It was always a treat to walk through
the Jew quarter, and especially on the Sabbath, 'when numbers were
abroad in their best costume, sitting at their doors, or passing to or
from the synagogue through the quiet streets. They are a very hand-
some race, with eyes which seem to distinguish them from the rest of
mankind—large, soft, and of the deepest expression. '

We went forth to-day by the Via Dolorosa, which was so quiet that
the horse’s feet of a passing rider sounded as they might in the S'ik at
Petra.‘ We turned into an arcade to the right. in order to get as near
as inﬁdels may to the Mosque of Omar. No Jew or Christian can
pass the threshold of the outermost courts without certain and imme-
diate death by stoning or beating. It requires some little resolution,
for those who dislike being hated, to approach this threshold, so
abominable are the insults offered to strangers. A boy began imme-
diately to spit at us. We presently obtained a better view of this
usurping temple from the city wall which we climbed for the purpose.
From hence, the inclosure was spread out beneath us, as in'a map, and
we could perceive the proportion it bore to the rest of the city, and
observe how much lower Mount Moriah was than Zion. The Mosque
was very beautiful, with its vast dome, and its walls of variegated mar-
bles, and its noble marble platform, with its ﬂights of steps and light
arcades; and the green lawn which sloped away all round, and the
cypress trees, under which a row of worshipers were at their prayers.
It was the Mohammedan Sabbath; and troops of children were at
play on the grass; and parties of women in white—Mohammedan
nuns—were sitting near them; and the whole scene was proud and
joyous. But, with all this before my eyes, my mind was with the
past. It seemed as if the past were more truly before me than whatl
saw. Here was the ground chosen by David, and leveled by Solomon
to receive the Temple of Jehovah. Here it was that the great king
lavished his wealth; and hither came the Sun-worshipers from the
East to lay hands on the treasure, and level the walls, and carry the
people away captive. Here was it restored under Ezra, and fortiﬁed
round when the people worked at the walls with arms in their girdles
and by their sides: and here, when all had been again laid waste, did
Herod raise the structure which was so glorious that the Jews were as
proud as the Mohammedans now before my eyes, and mocked at the
saying that it should ever be overthrown. I seemed to see it now as
it was then, with its glittering roof, whose plates of gold were too daz-

in‘ am“. < e‘
Page-410
408 amass u".

sling to look upon in the morning sun; and its golden vine, cover-
ing the front of the Holy place; and its colonnades which separated
the temple itself from its outer courts. I looked for the place where
the Sheep-gate was. and the Watergate, through which the priest
went down to the spring of Siloam, and declared, as he returned
with the golden ewer, that thus they drew water from the wells of sal-
vation. I looked for the court beyond which the money-changers
should not have been permitted to intrude; and the Court of the Gen-
tiles, and the Court of the Women; and where the Treasury-chest
stood, so placed on the right of the entrance that when the worshiper
threw in his gift, the left hand would not know what the right hand
did. I saw where the Scribes must havesat to teach. and where
Christ so taught in their jealous presence as to make converts of those
who were sent to apprehend him. I saw where the altar stood. whence
the smoke went up from the morning and evening sacriﬁce: and the
Holy Place, with the ark in the midst; and the long purple curtain—
the veil destined to be rent—which separated it from the Holy of [{0-
lies, where no one entered but the High Priest alone. These places
had been familiar to my mind's eye from my youth up: and now I
looked at the ground they had occupied, amidst scenery but little
changed, with an emotion which none but those who have made the
Bible the study of the best years of their life could conceive of. But
this was not all. Here it was that Titus saw, from his camp over to
our right, the ﬂames shooting up to destroy the building which he had
resolved to save. Here it was consumed: and here the plough was
brought to destroy the very foundations, s0‘that one stone should not
he left upon another. Here it was that “ Moriah became a ploughed
ﬁeld," and the wild grapes grew where the golden vine had hung its
clusters. It was long after this before any Jew could see his Zion and
Moriah even as we saw them now. All were banished; and when
they returned and hung about the land, hoping to ﬁnd some way in, so
that they might die within sight of their holy hills, they were inces:
santly driven back. In the age of Constantine, however, they were
allowed to approach so as to see the city from the surrounding heights ;
—a mournful liberty, like that of permitting an exile to look at his na~
tive shores from the sea, but never to land. At length, the Jews were
allowed to purchase of the Roman soldiers leave to enter Jerusalem
once a-year; and, of all days, on the anniversary of the fall of the city
before Titus ;—and merely to do-—what we presently saw their de-
scendants doing.

I have said how proud and prosperous looked the Mosque of Omar.
with its marble buildings, its green lawns. the merry children, and gay
inmates making holiday; all these ready and eager to stone to death
on the instant any Jew or Christian who should dare to bring his
homage to the sacred spot. This is what we saw within the walls.—
We next went round the outside, till we came. by a narrow crooked
passage, to a desolate spot, occupied by desolate people. Under a
high. massive, very ancient wall was a dusty narrow enclosed space.
where we saw the most mournful groups I ever encountered. This
high ancient wall, where weeds are springing from the crevices of the
Page-411
Jaws’ uses or warmto. 409

stones, is believed to be a part, and the only part remaining, of Solo-
mon’s temple wall: and here the Jews come every Friday, to their
Place of Wailing, as itis called, to mourn over the fall of their Beauti-
ful House, and pray for its- restoration. What a contrast did these
humbled people present to the proud Mohammedans within! The
women were sitting in. the dust—some wailing aloud, some repeating
prayers with moving lips, and others reading them from books on their
knees. A few children were at play on the ground, and some aged
men sat silent, their heads drooped on their breasts. Several younger
men were leaning against the wall, pressing their foreheads against the
stones, and resting their books on their clasped hands in the crevices.
With some, this wailing is no form: for I saw tears on their cheeks.
I longed to know if any had hope in their hearts that they, or their
children within a few generations, should pass that wall. and become
the echoes of that ancient cry, “ Lift up your heads, 0 ye gates, that
the King of Glory may come in 1" If they have any such hope, it
may give some sweetness to this rite of humiliation. We had no such
hope for them; and it was with unspeakable sadness that l, for one,
turned away from the thought of the pride and tyranny within that
enclosure, and the desolation without, carrying with me a deep-felt
lesson on the strength of human faith, and the weakness of the tie of
human brotherhood.

Whether the strength be equal under all faithsor not, it appears that
the weakness is. See here what is done in the name of religion! This
Jerusalem is the most sacred place in the world, except Mekkeh, to the
Mohammedan: and to the Christian and the Jew, it is the most sacred
place in the world. -What are they doing in this sanctuary of their
common Father, as they all declare it to be? Here are the Moham-
medans eager to kill any Jew or Christian who may enter the Mosque
of Omar. There are the Greek and Latin Christians hating each
other, and ready to kill any Jew or Mohammedan who may enter the
Church of the Holy Sepulchre. And here are the Jews. pleading
against their enemies, in the vengeful language of their ancient prophets..
0n them, we are not disposed to bear hardly: and we do not wonder
if, in the imagination of the pride which is glorying in its usurpation
behind that wall, and when the breeze brings the light laughter of the
children who are sporting within, the mourners cry from their Place
of Wailing, “ Happy shall he be who rewardeth thee as thou hast
served us! Happy shall he be who taketh thy little ones, and dasheth
them against the stones 1" But still, looking upon religion as she now
appears in this, her throne and sanctuary, we ﬁnd but a hideous idol
which has usurped the oracles, instructing men to be proud before God,
and to hate one another.

We were shown, near this spot, the remains of the bridge which
once joined the two hills, Zion and Moriah. The piers of a bridge are
distinct enough. The heaps of rubbish and mined wall here made this
place as desolate as anything we saw in Egypt.

One object with us to-day was to sit down, and read as much of the
gospel history as relates 'to the temple and its vicinity, within view of
Page-412
410 um“ am.

the places themselves: but Abdallah would not permit us to do so.
He had prepared his list of what we were to see, and took the ma-
nagement of us completely. He led us to the Golden Gate: a portal of
the Mosque of Omar, well Walled up. and constantly guarded; the Mo-
hammedans having a tradition that if ever they are driven out from

ion, it will be by the Jews or Christians entering at this gate.—
The temple wall can hardly have been entirely leveled at this part..—
any more than at the Jews‘ Place of Wailing; for the very large
stones,-—-blocks of twenty-four feet long.—built into the wall near the
base. are, by universal agreement, ancient: though all the upper part
of the wall is manifestly modern. At this place Ifonnd a difﬁculty
which occurred to me whenever I passed under this eastern wall, or
through the valley of Jehoshaphat. above which we how stood—At
the bottom of this valley runs the brook Kedron.—or rather, its chan-
nel; for I believe water is never seen in it. The valley is about half
a mile long. from the village of Siloam to the Garden of Gethsemane.
Its rocky sides are full of tombs: and here it is that the Jews expect
the Last Judgment to take place, founding their belief on the text (Joe!
III. 12)—“ Let the heathen be wakened. and come up to the Valley
of Jehoshaphat: for there will I sit. to judge all the heathen round
about.” The Mohammedans of Jerusalem have picked up something
of this from the Jews; for they show a stone in this. their temple wall,
where their prophet is to sit on the last day, while Christ executes
judgment in the valley below. Now, in the time of Herod's temple,
there was a sheer descent, from the top of the temple buildings to the
brook, of 480 ft. What the depth of the valley is new, I can nowhere
learn ;‘ but certainly it is nothing like this. And‘ there is such a pro-
jection under the wall as to form a terrace and long slope, where the
Mohammedans have made a cemetery. Much of this projection may
consist of rubbish from the overthrown city; as is the case with the
soil on Mount Zion : but it is difﬁcult to see how this side of the valley
should ever have been so precipitous as the old accounts make it. At
ﬁrst, I thought that the temple wall might have stood further out than
the present wall: but there are the ancient hewn stones to contradict
that supposition. The temple buildings on the eastern side being on
the wall‘woultl give a considerable additional height: and their posi-
tion. crowning the steep side of the valley. must have been as ﬁne as
can be conceived: but how the total height can ever have been 480 ft.
it is not easy to see: nor how that side can ever have been wholly
precipitous.

Abdallah showed us what is called. against all probability, the Pool
of Bethesda. There are three arches at one end, which the stranger
is told are the ﬁve porches. These arches are walled up: and they.
and the whole circuit of walls. are tufted with weeds. All the pools
in Palestine are beautiful: and this not less than others. It was mea-

' Dr. Robinson gives the depth of the precipice merely, below the S. E. comer of
the wall. at IGU fl. 1 should have supposed it more: but. there is a long slope from
the top of the precipice to the base of the wall.-—Et'blica1 Researches, L 343.
Page-413
was won or mm. 411

sured by Maundrell, and is 120 paces long, forty broad, and not less
than eight deep. There is never any water in it now : and there is
every reason to suppose it a part of the fosse which once separated
Mount Moriah from' Bezetha. 1could not but wish that this might have
been Bethesda ; but it cannot be reasonably supposed so.

As we returned homewards, with our minds full of what we had
seen, we encountered in the street two men ﬁghting about a skin of
water. Three others soon joined; and a .more desperate combat [
never saw. They fought as they might for freedom or life; and all
about a skinful of water, which was spilt in the struggle. Here was
the Arab “ intensity,” shown in this childish way !

In the evening the rest of the party went to the Church of the Holy
Sepnlchre. to see the washing of the Pilgrims' feet. In Rome,I might
have gone to such a spectacle: but here I could not. After having
visited such scenes in the morning, and having now Olivet and the
rising moon in view from our platform, I could notgo to witness mum-
meries done in the name of Christianity, compared with which the
lowest Fetichism on the banks of an African river would have been
inoﬁ'ensive.—Nor would I go the next day to see the miracle of the
Greek tire in the same place.——This miracle has now dwindled down
into a show so little marvelous that one wonders how long the faith in
it will last. Formerly, as every one knows, miraculous ﬂames used to
shoot out, red and green, from apertures on each side of, and behind
the altar; and the Pilgrims rushed to light their torches, throwing each
other down, and trampling to death more or fewer who could notstand
the rush. Moreover, there was a feud between the Greek and Latin
Christians about which should remove the covering of the altar after the
ceremony; and lives were lost in this way. When Ibraheem Pasha
ruled here, he endeavored to keep order by going in himself, on one
occasion, among the crowd ; but he unfortunately fainted; and his so]-
diers brought him out with great violence. So many lives were lost
on that occasion that a considerable modiﬁcation of the proceedings
ensued. The cloth is removed by the Mohammedan governor (a curious
transaction of Christian worship!) and now the ﬁre is diffused by
torches being handed out of these apertures, and carried round for the
Pilgrims to light theirs hy,—the ﬁre being still, for the present, called
miraculous. '

According to the account the gentlemen brought home, the crowd
was very dense: the people were kept tolerably quiet by two rows of
Turkish soldiers, till the ﬁre appeared: but after the kindling of the
pilgrims' torches, the hubbub was terrible to witness. The poor crea-
tures were perfectly frantic, not only shouting and gesticulating, but
leaping on one another’s shoulders. One of my friends, who never
uses strong language, told me “ it was like a holiday in hell.” Such is
Christianity at Jerusalem!

We went that day to see David's tomb, or the place of it. A mosque
is built over it,—outside the walls,—on Mount Zion. We were not
worthy to see the tomb itself,—neither Jew nor Christian being per-
mitted to approach it :—a most galling restriction to the resident Jews!
Page-414
412 small urn.

But we saw a procession of Derweeshes going to it. The Santana
belonging to this mosque'are very great men, indeed, the most powerful
in Jerusalem ;—such great men that they do nothing whatever, and are
fed by corn and other good things given them by the people. on the
compulsion of their holiness. Their horses, which awaited them near,
were sleek, handsome creatures; and their masters looked much like
other well-dressed Mohammedans. They walked in a kind of pro-
cession, with rude music, and entered the mosque.—We were told that
there was one place in the same building which we might sew—the
Caenaculum: the room where Jesus supped with his disciples. It is
a very large upper room, dim and cheerless, with a niche at one end.
where the Christians occasionally perform mass.—The place is sup-
posed to be an ancient Christian church: but it cannot be what the
legend declares it, as all the buildings on the heights of Zion were razed
at the time of the destruction of Jerusalem. We could not give any
more belief, to the House of Caiaphas which stands near.-a substan-
tial, blank stone building.

The Armenian Convent. close at hand, has a most gorgeous chapel.
but little that is interesting. and much that is painful to see. In Italy,
I found the Christian mythology and superstitious observances very
distressing to witness : but I could have had no idea how much more
painful the spectacle is in Palestine. It is not merely that the sim-
plicity of the actual teachings of Christ comes out most strikingly on
the spot where he lived and taught; and that the singleness of his doe-
trine, and the pure monotheism of his own ideas are evident as the
daylight to those who have traveled with the Hebrews from Egypt
hither, and read their history by local lights. but that in Egypt we had
seen the origin of the mythology and superstitions which were eugrafted
upon Christianity at Alexandria, and in Greece and Rome, and which
debase the religion of Christ at this day. We had seen in Egypt and
in the Greek philosophy which was thence derived. ages before the
time of Christ, these allegorical fables of Osiris and his nature and
oﬂices, of the descent of the Supreme on earth in a ﬂeshy form, and
the‘deifying or sanctiﬁcation of intercessors which were unhappily,
but very naturally, connected with the simple teachings of Christ by
the Platonizing converts of various countries, at an early period. and
which to this day deform and vitiate the gospel in countries which yet
keep clear of the open idolatries of the Greek and Latin Churches.
The vitiation of the teachings of Christ anywhere, and under the least
oﬂ'ensive outward observance, is mournful enough: but here, while
Christ, and nature, and history all bid us reverently preserve the purity
and simplicity of his teachings, it is truly revolting to meet every-
where, in its extremestrankuess, the superstition which the interfusiou
of the old Egyptian element has caused. Here we have. in these
Christian churches, the wrathful “jealous God" of the old Hebrews,
together with the propitiating Osiris. the malignant Typhe, the Hades,
the Purgatory, and the incarnations of the Egyptians and their disciple
Pythagoras ; the Logos of the Platonists. the incompatible resurrection
and immortality of opposing schools, all mingled together and pres
Page-415
was car: or JIR’IIILH. 413

fanely named after him who came to teach, not “ cunningly devised
fables," but that men should love their Father in Heaven with all their
hearts and minds, and their neighbor as themselves. The Egyptian
theology and Greek philosophy were proper to their times, and vene-
rable on that account, as the strongest light that men had reached: but,
reproduced'with adulterations in Jerusalem, and used to take Christ’s
name in vain, they were as aﬁiicting as the original records of the
ideas in Egypt were interesting. The marks of the kissing of the tomb
of St. James in this Armenian convent showed what the quality of the
devotion here was.—The diﬂ'erent churches in Jerusalem divide among
them the objects which attract strangers. In this convent are shown
the stone which closed the Holy Sepulchre; the “ prison of Christ ;”
the spot where Peter denied his Lord, and the court where the'cock
crew: this being on the opposite side of the city from Fort Antonia
and the residence of Pilate! The Armenian Patriarchs of Jerusalem
are buried here: and near, are the cemeteries of all the Christian con-
vents, where it is interesting to read the names of Englishmen who.
without the wish entertained by pious Jews, have been destined to ﬁnd
their long rest here.

Near this place, just within the Zion Gate, are the huts of the
Lepers. We passed them many times, and never without seeing the
poor outcasts, sitting by the wayside to ask charity. All their lives
long, they have no society beyond their own miserable company: and
these intermarry, so that there are children born into their cursed life,
born to give their parents something to hope for a few years, and
then to show the disease, and die by inches under it.

Returning by the Jew Quarter, we looked into the synagogue,—I
ﬁnding my‘way to the women's gallery, to the great surprise of some
Jewesses who were gossiping on the ground, not far all". Only one
woman was in the gallery; and nothing interesting was going forward.

When the gentlemen returned from church, the next day, (Sunday,
April 4th,) we enjoyed a delightful ramble. We left the city by the
Damascus gate, and came to one of those beautiful pools which I was
always glad to fall in with. It was called the Sheep-pool; and it lies
dim under arches in the rock, whence hang long strings of weeds,
ready to wave with the ﬁrst breath of wind. An Arab was ﬁllin his
waterskins there, his red tarboosh casting a light in among the she owy
waters and green ferns. I ran down to this pool, whenever we passed
that way; and I always found some such picture there.

Our present ob'ect was the Cave of Jeremiah, which we approached
over the open ﬁe d. We were now on the ground of Titus's camp.
Here lay “ the abomination of desolation" at that terrible time. Here
rang the armor and sounded the heavy tread of the cohorts; and here
the ground shook when the wooden towers of the Romans were pushed

against the walls, that Jew and Roman might ﬁght face to face from
the walls and from these towers. This was the only side on which
the city could be attacked, the other three being surrounded by ravines.
On this north side, therefore, the whole army was encamped, except
one legion which occupied the lower slope of the Mount of Olives. I
Page-416
“4 turns urn.

believeitiseoocludedthatthenorthernwallcorrespondstotheouter—
most of the three walk on that side which enclosed the city in those
days; and indeed there i but a narrow sinking of the ground, little
more than a trench, between the wall and the high ground. On these
slopes, and some way back into the country. lay the lines of Roman
tents, where now the whole ground was sheeted with young barley,
and clamped and sprinkled over with olive trees. In a deep rural still-
ness, and passing among springing crops and fruitful orchards. we
crossed this great military site, till we came to the silent ruck-retreat
which is named after Jeremiah.

The door was fast; and we knocked in vain. But on another ocu-
sion we obtained admission, and saw what we should have been sorry
to have missed. This wonderful retreat is entered by a ddor cut in
the south face of a rocky hill; which face seems to he artiﬁcially
opened. The grotto itself appears to occupythe whole interior of the
hill. A painter would ﬁnd subjects for years within that door.—
among the black. brown and gray rocks. the shadowy caverns. and
brilliant projections. where light falls in all imaginable caprices. The
whole would be too sombre,-almost as gloomy as the meditations of
Jeremiah—but for the weeds, which here again cast in their vivid green
to relieve the sense. and amuse the eye by the tossing of their tufts
and ladders and garlands. This grotto is not a single cave, but a spa.
cious set of caverns, separated by natural partitions, and rude pillars
and intercolumnar screens. There is a whole nest of vaulted chapels
or dwellings, crypts, and chambers, at hand,—accessible, I believe,
only by the one portal in the hill side. The Latin monks occasionally
perform mass in the cavern: and this was all we could learn about
the place.

We were determined not to be disappointed of our reading to-day ;
and so we gave Abdallah to understand. He placed himself within
hearing, and watched us with an appearance of strong curiosity. From
the Cave. we had come round under the walls to the eastern side. where
we found in the Turkish cemetery, some scanty shade. where we could
sit, and look and listen. Here we read the whole of the Gospel of
Matthew which relates to scenes and events in Jerusalem or the neigh-
borhood. Behind us was the enclosure where the temple stood. At
our feet, the ground sloped steeply down into the Valley of Jehoshaphat.
In the depth of the valley was the channel of the brook Kedron, and
on its opposite bank. for below to the left, was the Garden of Gethse~
mans, with its hoary olives. Before us uprose the long slope of Olivet,
over which, to the right, slanted the road to Bethany. When, in my
youth, I used to pore over the four Gospels, trying to make a Harmony
and a map on paper, and pictures in my mind, how little did I dream
that I should sit and read the record here, under the temple wall, and-
ﬁnd many things made so wonderfully clear! And 0! how simple,
how familiar, how cheerful, (yet all the more pathetic for that.) are his
teachings, when read in the presence of their illustrations, in comparison
with the solemn delivery of them, cut up into verses. in our churches.
and even in our family circles at home! The biblical scholar may
Page-417
IOUNT or cams. 416

owe much to that device of Robert Stevens,—much convenience for
reference,—bnt, as for the rest of the world, it seems as if it would have
been better for us that Robert Stevens should have slept all the way
from Lyons to Paris, than that he should have spent his time in cutting
up the Bible, in a vast hurry, into verses. Happily. there are para-
graph Bibles still to be had; though too few seem to prefer the use of
them.

Nothing struck us more than the space and vastness everywhere
aboutus. The commonest disappointmentof all in seeing laces which
one has dreamed of all one's life, or remembered from chi dhood, is to
ﬁnd everything so small. My idea of Jerusalem was of a city nearly
surrounded with dells, with a mere rising round for the Mount of
Olives. But as we sat among the tombs to- ay, the wayfarers on the
Bethany road, and the horsemen in the valley below, and the goat-
herds on the slope of Olivet. were diminished to the size of people on
the sea shore, seen from a lofty cliﬁ'. From a mere glance round, one
would have said that we had the whole scene nearly to ourselves; but,
when we came to consider, there were many people within sight, and
they appeared so few only,on account of the scale of the surrounding
objects. The village of Siloam was on the opposite hill, about half a
mile away to the right; and I watched the progress of two horsemen
from before it to the point of road near us, ascending to the city; I
was surprised to see how slow appeared their progress, and how small
their size below; and how long they were in winding up the hill on
which we sat. The gaping tombs in the opposite rock looked mere
holes.—The winding away of the valley southwards was exceedingly
beautiful, with its red rocks and dim olive groves, and sloping ﬁelds
and craggy, terraced hills, till the distant heights overlapped, and
screened from as the blue Moab mountains.

In returning, we skirted the city southwards, and entered by the
Zion gate. The trees of the Armenian convent garden tempted us in:
but we found nothing worth looking at, and brought away only a few
roses and poor geraniums. We had not yet set foot on the Mount of
Olives. or crossed the Kedron. These and some other sacred places

we were to explore a few days hence, on our return from an expedition
to the Jordan and the Dead Sea.

 

CHAPTER IV.

BETHANY.—PLAJN 01" J ERICHO.——ELISHA’S SPRING,—JERICHO.—THE
JORDAN—THE DEAD SEA.—CONVENT OF SANTA SABA.

0N Monday, April 5th, we were on horseback early for our rendez-
vous in the valley of Jehoshaphat. The party were to meet at Job‘s
Tomb; and a large company we appeared when assembled. Our De-
sert comrades were all there; and four strangen,—European gende-
men who had asked permission to ride with us, on nonunt of the in-
Page-418
416 Ian-sits Lin.

securit of the roads. Our servants, tents and kitchens were there, as
we ha to spend two ni hts away from Jerusalem: and ten well-armed
guards escorted us. T e road from Jerusalem to Jericho is as danger-
ous from thieves as ever it was. There is not a worse road in Palm»
tine: but our caravan was too large to be attacked by any band of rob-
bers; and we hardl saw a human ﬁgure, except at the wells, the whole
way, after leaving than .

It was about nine o’cloc when we began to wind up the camel mall
to BethanyI which led us over the eastern ridge of Olivet. As soonss
we had passed the ridge. Bethany came in view, lying on the eastern
slope of the Mount of Olives, and. as everybody knows, “ ﬁfteen fur-
longs" distant from Jerusalem. It is now a village inhabited by about
twenty families t a very poor place; but looking less squalid than
might be expected, from its houses being built, as everywhere in that
country. of stone ;—square, substantial, and large dwellings, compared
with village abodes elsewhere. Its position on the side of the bill it
very ﬁne, seen from below. The moment of interest, however, is in
creasing the rid above. when one is about to lose sight of Jerusalem.
towering on its ion behind, and to drop down into the village, which
lies so quietly among its olive groves and ﬁelds. This is the spot for
rememberiu who it was that was so led to come hither and rest: to
place that ri ge between himself and t e doomed city, which was revel-
ing in her Pharisaic pride, ready to stone him who was sent unto her; I"
leave behind all that pride and peril, and come here to repose among
friends, and open his human aﬂ'ections to Lazarus and his sisters.

We were desired to dismount, just above Bethany, to visit what the
monks called the Tomb of Lazarus. Without supposing it to be that.
we found it interesting, as a really ancient tomb. It was so small, that few
of us went down; but [wished to see the whole of it. A few steep and
difﬁcult steps brought me down into a small vaulted chamber; and two
or three more very deep and narrow steps led to the lower chamber
where the body was laid. We questioned whether there was 100'“
for more than one body. In exploring tombs in this country, whether
such as this, or the more picturesque and natural burial-places in the
branchin caverns of the limestone rocks, I often wished that the old
painters ad enjoyed our opportunities,—for the sake of art as well as
truth ; and then we should have had re resentations of Lazarus coming
forth from chambers in the rock, instea of rising from such a grave 88
we see dug in European churchyards. The limestone rocks, full of
caverns, now used as dwellings for men and cattle, were of old the”
“ chambers of the grave" which puzzled our childhood by that name:
and it is a great privilege to have seen them. so as to understand how
the dead were said to be callin to each other; and how the stone was
rolled away from the month 0% the sepulchres, and how Jesus could
have cried with a loud voice for the dead to come forth. After having
visited these places, how vivid is the picture of such scenes! How
the voice echoes through those dim “chambers of the tomb," and I!
answered by the dead man appearing in his cerements,—appearin$
from the end of the passage, or in the shadow of the recess l
Page-419
sum or narcao. 417

The monks, when taken as guides, show in the village the house of
Martha and Mary, as they pretend, and that of Simon the Leper: but
we did not inquire for these, having no wish to mix up anything fabu-
lous with our observations of a place so interesting asBethany.

Our road led us to the bottom of the valley, where there were
patches of cultivation on the stony soil. We rode for three or four
miles, sometimes on the one bill and sometimes on the other; and then
we began to ascend the hot and rough and dreary road where begin the
dangers of the way “ from Jerusalem to Jericho ;"-—where the traveler
enters among the astnesses of the thieves who have infested the road
from time \immemorial. There is a hollow wa which is considered
the most dangerous of all. Here Sir Frederick enniker was stripped
and left for dead by robbers in 1820. His servants ﬂed and hid them-
selves oa the ﬁrst alarm. When they returned. he was lyin naked
and bleeding on the sultry road. They put him on a horse, an carried
him to Jericho. where he found succor. Perhaps he was thinking of
the parable of the Samaritan when this accident befell him. I was
thinking of it almost every step of the way.—Another beautiful story
was presently after full in my mind ;-—a Catholic legend which was told
me by a German friend in America, when I little dreamed of ever being
on the spot. Our read now gradually ascended the high ridge from
which we were soon to overlook the plain of Jericho. The track was
so stony and difﬁcult as to make our progress very slow: and the white
rocks under the midday sun gave out such heat and glare as made me
entermore thoroughl into the story of Peter and the cherries than my
readers can perhaps 0. And yet the many to whomI have told the
le ad in conversation have all felt its beauty. It is this.

esus and two or three of his disciples went down, one summer day,
from Jerusalem to Jericho. Peter,-the ardent and eager Peter,—was,
as usual, by the Teacher's side. On the road on Olivet lay a horseshoe.
which the Teacher desired Peter to pick up. but which Peter let lie. as
he did not think it worth the trouble of sleeping for. The Teacher
stooped for it. and exchanged it in the village fora mmure of cherries.
These cherries he carried (as eastern men now carry such things.) in
the bosom-folds of his dress} When they had to ascend the ri ,
and the road lay between heated rocks. and over rugged stones, and
among glaring white dust. Peter became tormented with heat and thirst.
and fell behind. Then the Teacher dropped a ripe cherry at every
few steps ; and Peter eagerly stooped for them. When they were all
done, Jesus turned to him, and said with a smile, “ He who is above
sltlooping to a small thing, will have to hand his back to many lesser
t ings."

From the ridge, we had a splendid view of the plain of the Jordan.
It lay, apparent y as ﬂat as a table. to the base of the Moab mountains
opposite. and to the Dead Sea, to our ri ht,—the south. The surround-
ing mountains were dressed in the soft hues which such an atmosphere

' “ Good measure. pressed down, and shaken together, and running over, shall
men give into your bosom."—Luke VI. 38.

27
Page-420
418 nman Lin.

alone can exhibit. The plain was once as delicious a region as ever
men lived in. Imephus calls it a “ divine region ;" and tells of its miles
of gardens and palm groves. Here grew the balsam which was worth
its own weight in silver, and was a treasure for which the kings of the
East made war. Cleopatra sent a commission, to bring some balsam
plants to Egypt. The whole valley or plain was studded with towns;
and every town was embosomed in verdure, as Damascus is now.
Jericho was but one of a hundred neighboring cities: but it was dis-
tinguished above others by the name of the Cit of Palm trees: and
now, travelers dispute about where Jericho st ! From our height, .
we saw a low square tower rising above some wood, a few miles of:
and this tower is by many said to be the only remaining fragment of
the old city: while others suppose its site to be at the base of the hills
we were now on, and refer to Jericho the remains of an aqueduct, and
the walls and arches which are scattered about these bare and rocky
eminences. The scene is indeed very desolate now. The plain is bamn.
except for the strip of verdure,——broad,sinuous, and thickly wooded.—
which runs through the midst, marking the channel of the river. The
palms are gone, and the sycamores, and the honey which the wild bees
made in the hollows of their stems. The fruits and the sugar canes are
gone i and instead of these. we now ﬁnd little but tall reeds, thorny-aca-
cias, and trees barren of blossom or fruit. The verdant strip is, however.
beautilbl from afar, beautiful for itself, and because it indicates where the
Jordan ﬂows. it indicates toothat the plain might still be fertile. When-
ever men shall be living there who are wise enough, and free enough. to
be friends with Nature, the plain may again be as rich as it once was-

The peculiarities of the plain of the Jordan are not such as can
disappear within any moderate lapse of time, or be emancntly af-
fected by changes in the conduct of men. The natunffeatures of the
country have here, as in Egypt and elsewhere, much aﬂécted and de-
termined the character and life of their inhabitants. The hillsI which
enclose the plain, both to the east and west, have a much steeper and
longer descent to the Jordan valley than on their outer sides. In other
words, the valley is extraordinarily depressed. Accordin to Russo t.
the level of the Dead Sea is between [300 and 1400 Feet lower t In
the Mediterranean: and the supposed site of Jericho itself, 774 feet-
The consequence of this depression of a well-watered district is that the
plain has a tropical climate and aspect; and that its inhabitants had I
tropical constitution and habits. They became, in course of time, by
living among their cane-brakes and palm-groves, as unlike their bre-
thren of the eastern tribes who led their ﬂocks over the hi h table-lands.
as if they had been of a different race. The history 0 the sinewyv
well-braced, roving eastern tribes is, therefore, conspicuously diﬂ'erenh
throughout the Old Testament, from that of the soft and indolent dwell'
are in the valley. It is signiﬁcantly remarked, in the History of the
Hebrew Monarchy,“ that n the actual rulers of the country appear ll
every time to have dwelt on the higher grounds.”

' A History of the Hebrew Monarchy, p. 5.
Page-421
PLAIN 0! TE] JORDAN—HOUR! 0! rims-nos. 419

The descent was truly like a plunge into the tropics; and for two
days from that moment, we suﬂered more from the heat than, I think,
during any part of our travels, The murkiness of the air was also
remarkable: not only a steaming heat, but a heavy thickness which
deadened the sun and the waters. and our spirits and breathing.
This increased much as We approached the Dead Sea, the next day:
but it was very perceptible from the moment we descended into the

lain. "

p As I checked my horse on the summit, and looked over the plain, I
could not be] sending a searching gaze a(ter the Jordan, though I well
knew that it Pay below three terraces,—-“ down in a hole," as a recent
visitor had told us. I could trace its course by the sinuous line of
wood: but for the rest, I must wait another day.—There was another
stream to be visited ﬁrst. It may be remembered that, once upon a.
time, u the men of Jericho said unto Elisha, Behold. I pray thee, the
situation of this city is pleasant, as my lord seeth; but the water is
naught, and the ground httrrenz’”I and it may be remembered how the
story goes on,-how Elisha healed the waters, that there should not be
from thence any more death or barren land: and that “ the waters were
healed unto this day.” Another strip of woodland marked the course
of this spring of Elisha's, about a mile. I think, from the base of the
hills we were on. Here we were to encamp. '

The descent was like an irregular stair—case: it was so steep that al-
most every one dismounted: but the heat was so excessive that I was
disposed to keep my seat if possible. When I glanced up from the
bottom, and saw the last of the party arrive on the ridge, and prepare
to begin the descent, it looked so fearful that I was glad to turn awa .

One of the most baseless traditions of the H01 Land adheres to t is
spot. The mountain immediately to our left in escending is supposed
to be the Mount of Temptation. It was probably ﬁrst ﬁxed upon from
its commanding the richest part of the country.—the best local example
of I‘the kingdoms of the earth, and the glory of them.” This mountain
is called Quarantania. In its rocky face are square holes—the entrances
of caves: and hither‘ come, every year, devotees,—eome from a great
distancef—to dwell for forty days in this waste place, barely supporting
themselves by such roots and herbs as they can ﬁnd. Some of these
caves are generally inhabited by the robbers who give such a bad name
to the district.

We had not traveled far over the sands and among the bushes of the
plain, when we saw our tents pitched in the most delicious spot, be-
yond all comparison, that had yet occurred for our encampment. Till
now. we had nowhere seen forest-scener . Here it was,—on the banks
of Elisha‘s stream—now called Ain Sultan. The clear. rushing waters
ﬂowed away under the spreading branches of narled old trees; and
therewere thickets beyond, where the mules an horses could scarcely
force their way. The green and golden sheeted lights, and broad sha-
dows on the stream were to our eyes like water to the desert-traveler.
“ As You Like It” was in my head all day; for here was an exact re-

‘S'Elngsnlg.
Page-422
420 names Lira.

alizatiou of my conception of the forest-haunts of leind and Iaqna.
I need not say that it was equally unlike anything I had looked for in
the Holy Land. Our tentwas close upon the stream; but the heat was
so excessive that we could not bear the tent, and had our dinner-table
placed under a tree, whose roots were washed by the brook. Other
parties of our comrades were dining, or lying on the banks of the stream :
and the Arabs sat in groups near the tents. Every encampment of
travelers in these wild places is beautiful: but I never sawone so beau-
tiful as this.

After dinner, we went to the ruins, at the foot of Quarantania. In
several directions, we saw traces of foundation walls; and on the hill
side was the fragment of an aqueduct; and below, some vaulted re.
cesses. remains of square ediﬁces, and many strewn stones: but no-
thing to mark the site of a ver ancient or extensive city.-—The holes in
the strata of the precipices loo ed so like Petra, that some of us wished
to climb up to them: but the chief of our escort, the Sheikh of the
district, stepped in the way. barred the passage. and drew his sword
across his throat, to convey that robbers were there. He told the dra-
goman that being responsible for our safety, he could let no one go to
the caves.

I had before traced the stream up to its sunroof—about a quarter of a
mile from our tent. The spring bubbled up under some bushes, and
spread, clear and shallow, into a little pond, where some hewn stones
were scattered about, seeming to. show that the source had once been
built over. When we returned from Quarantania, and the tails of the
day were over, Miss — and I stole away to the spring to bathe. We
found each a drooping tree which made a close dressing-room; and I
trusted to ﬁnd some spot where the water was deep enough for our
purpose. Under a tree I found a pool chin deep: and there, in that
quiet spot, where there was no sound but the rustle and dip of the
bougbs overhead, we bathed,—shaking off the fatigues of a hot and
toilsome day. It was dusk when we came out, and a lustrous planet
hung over the nearest hill.

The Eastern traveler feels a strong inclination to bathe in every
sacred sea, river and spring. We had done it in Arabia; and now the
interest grew as we visited places more and more familiar to our know-
ledge and imagination. How strong the interest is, and how like that
of a new baptism, those at home may not be able to imagine; and such
may despise the superstition which leads hundreds of pilgrims every
year to rush into the Jordan. But, among all the travelers who visit
the Jordan, is there one, however far removed from superstition, who
is willing to turn away without having bowed his head in its sacred
waters!

There was no moon to-night: but the stars were glorious when I
came out of our tent to takeone more look before retiring to rest. Here
and there, the watch-ﬁres cast yellow gleams on the trees and waters:
but there were reaches of the brook, still and cool, where the stars lit-
tered like fragments of moonlight. This day stands in my journg as
one of the most delicious of our travels.

In the morning of the next day (April 6th), about five o’clock, I as-
Page-423
matcno. 421

cended a steep mound near our encampment, and saw a view as differ-
ent from that of the preceding day as a change of lights could make it.
The sun had not risen; but there was a him of its approach in a gush
of pale light behind the Moab mountains. The strip of wood-land in
the middle of the plain looked black in contrast with the brightening
yellow precipices of Quarantania on the west. Southwards, the Dead
Sea stretched into the land, gray and clear. Below me, our tents and
horses, and the moving ﬁgures of the Arabs enlivened the shadowy
banks of the stream. ‘

We were of? soon after six, and were to reach the Jordan in two
hours and a half. Our way lay through the same sort of forest land
as we had encamped in. It was very wild ; and almost the only tokens
of habitation that we met with were about Rihhah,—-supposed to be
the site of the ancient Jericho. This is now as miserable a village as
any in Palestine; and its inhabitants are as low in character as in wealth.
No stranger thinks of going near it who is not well armed and guarded.
What a change from the former days, when this was the garden of the
known world,—this valley extending through the heart of Palestine!
Here, where we now saw only a few ﬁg trees and a mere sprinkling of
young crops,—here where the luxuriance of the vegetation shows that
the soil and climate are not to blame for the desolation,—here was once
the crowded city which submitted to‘ Joshua: here were the ﬁelds
which fed whole armies of Syrians and Egyptians as they passed to
and fro. And here. in a later day, as peeple sat abroad in the cool of the
evening, every man under his own vine or his own ﬁg tree, did news
circulate from one neighborly group to another which soon ﬁlled the
whole valley. It had been for some time known that a young man,—
very young to assume to be a prophet,—had been living in the Desert.
a few miles to the south. He was probably a disciple of the Essenes,
reared in their large community near the Dead Sea, and not very far
from hence. The anchorites of that sect and district did not usually
betake themselves to the hard life of the wilderness till their frames
were strong to bear hunger.'heat and cold. But this new preacher had
hardly a beard upon his chin: and his young face made him so little
like the popular conception of a Hebrew prophet, that his claims were
much discussed, and many went out to endeavor to meet him; and
under the trees here, at eventide,they reported what they had seen
and heard. What they had heard most about was Repentance; a
theme so old that men had become careless of it, and now needed a
new awakening. Every Hebrew child knew, from his infancy up-
wards, that the Messiah would not come till the nation had repented of
its prevalent vices, and of every inﬁdelity to Jehovah: and yet. though
there was much expectation of the Messiah appearing before long, these
words about repentance passed over the popular ear, without rousing
the nation’s soul; and it needed the appearance of one crying in the
Desert to make them apprehend that the axe must be laid to the root
of every wickedness among them. The doctrine preached was that of
the Essenest—that a man who had two coats and food enough should
give to him that had none: that the tax-gatherers should be moderate,
Page-424
422 um“ url.

and exact no perquisites; and that the soldiers should cherish
among their neighbors and contentment in themselves. The practice
with which the prophet sanctiﬁed the resolutions of the penitent was
also eminently Essene. It was common among all the Jews to baptize.
-—proceeding upon the words of their Prophets.—-“ Wash you, make
you clean; put away the evil of your doings from before mine eyes :”’
-—“ then I will sprinkle clean water upon you. and ye shall be clean:
from all your ﬁlthiness, and from all your idols will [cleanse you;"1‘—
in literal obedience to such teachin s. all the Jewish sects practiced
baptism: but none with such care an observance as the Eksenes. The
precepts and the practice were not new: but. given out now by a devout
young prophet, worthy of the wild olden time. and at a season when
every Hebrew mother looked upon her infant son as possibly the Mee—
siah, there was abundant reason why the talk at eventide should be of
this John. in the course of ten years, the curiosity and interest must
have somewhat subsided; but yet must. on the whole. have been the
chief topic of the time. Many households, and a multitude of indi-
viduals. had no doubt reformed themselves, and were waiting, in the
spirit of faith and the practice of purity. for the coming of a greater than
the prophet. With these the interest would be fully kept alive. And
the opulent citizens of the distant towns, passing this way to Jerusa-
lern at the time of the Feasts, would stop to learn how they might find
the new Prophet. and would return, grave because he had told them to
give of their wealth to those who had none. The tax-gatherers. en-
countering him in their rounds. would depart rebuked, and hear the
whisper among the people that the days for paying tribute would soon
be over, when the Messiah should have driven *out the Romans. and
established his own kingdom upon Zion. And Herod's soldiers must
have passed this way, going to and from Fort Machwrus on the Dead
Sea; and the exhortations to them would become known. and would be
gratefully remembered b the rural inhabitants whom soldiers are wont to
oppress. And the prop et himself would be seen at times, even in this
fertile and peopled district. The cultivator. going out early to watch his
ﬁeld. in dread of the locust-swarm. now that the south-wind was strong.
ﬁnding his fears too just, would see the prophet lighting his ﬁre of green
wood. to bring down the locusts, and save the neighboring crops. And
at noon-day, when the bees are all abroad, and man seeks the shade.
the wayfarer, resting in the woods, would see the nnchorite busy with-
drawing the honeycomb from the hole of an old sycamore; and the two
would draw near, and take their noon-tide meal t ther, and converse
of him who should come _: and then. before night, ow far would every
word be known that the prophet had said! Again, he must pass by
this way to some of the stations on the Jordan where he was wont to
baptize: and, though he had been occasionally seen for ten years, none
could carelessly let him pass by.

At last. among the many who were allowed carelessly to pass by,
among the peasants and artisans who inquired at this place where John

' Isaiah I. l6. 1’ Ezekiel XXXVI. 25.
Page-425
mm or amcao. 48.

was at that time baptizin , came One, in appearance and lowliness like
the rest. lpurposing to be ptized like them. and in fact for some time
afterwar s a disciple of the prophet. The dwellers here would not
know for some months after that the had spoken with one greater than
the snchorite of the Desert; and w en they heard that another had
risen up, whose disciples were baptizing more converts than John, they
would endeavor to remember what di niﬁed personage, with his train,
had here inquired the we , and let f words of promise of his comic
power and kingdom: an they would differ about which was he; an
some would go forth to see him, and recognize him: and when they
saw him. some would recall that countenance and voice; and most
would go back when they found it was only a carpenter of Nazareth,
askin how one so lowly, and so little prepared for war and‘conquest,
should drive out the Romans, and restore the kingdom to Israel :—how
it was possible for a teacher of the non-resistant doctrines of the Essenes,
and for a poor inhabitant of the rural province of Galilee, to set up a
throne on Zion ; and then ensued those domestic dissensions,—-that pa-
rental pre'udice conﬂictin with youthful enthusiasm, which made the
parent de iver over the c ild to destruction, and the child forsake the
parent. and exhibited the truth that this Messenger of Peace had at
ﬁrst brought not peace but a sword. Here, in this rich district, peo-
pled with indolent and luxurious inhabitants, had this stir begun and
spread. which was never to cease till the plain of Jordan had become
t e waste that we saw it now. By degrees, the landmarks were de-
stroyed and forgotten: the woods decayed. and' no more were planted.
The rains descended and the ﬂoods came. and swept away the dwell-
ings; and none built them up again. The swallow made a nest for
herself on the household altars, and the wild beasts came up at the
swelling of Jordan: the sands swept over the ﬁeld. and the salt gales
from the southern lake encrusted the herbage, and poisoned the soil:
and robbers of another race came to live in the caves of the hills, and
made the passage to the Jordan as dreary and perilous as we saw it
this day, while that Nazarene artisan came to be worshiped as a god
over a wide continent, and in far islands of the sea. It was a vast
chapter of human history which unrolled itself before us here beside
the one remaining tower which is pointed out as marking the site of
the ancient Jericho.

And now we were eager for the river. though, as I said before, we
had been warned that we could not see it till it should appear ﬂowing
at our ver feet. We were aware of our approach, by the three ter-
races we ad to cross, which are distinctly marked. Each was level,
and then a small slope led down to the next. On a hillock on the first
terrace. where the vegetation showed that here might once have been
placed the ﬂourishing home of some inhabitant of the valley, were
perched a few birds among the brushwood; birds of such a size that
one of our party thoughtlessly cried out “ Ostriches l" There are no
ostriches here: but these cranes might easily be mistaken for them.
One by one they rose, ﬂapping their great wings. and stretching out
their long legs behind them, and sailed away towards the Dead Sea.
Page-426
424 nmm am.

From the formation of the ground. as well as from some of the an-
cient language about Jordan. it appears as if the river had once been
subject to inundations, which might have caused the exuberant fertility
of the plain in former days: but it is not so now. The force with whi
it rushes down the descent from the Lake of Tiberius to the Dead Sea
has. in course of centuries, so deepened its channel as that it rarely
rises above its banks. It gushes along in its deep bed among the wood-
land, and now and then stands in among the stems of the trees; but it
is not upon record that it has reached the second terrace in its fullest
seasons; and its depth varies much in different ears, as well as in
different seasons of every ear. Till we came to t e brakes on its very
banks, all was as dry as i no wave had ever touched it.

Our uides led us towards the spot which is cleared for the baptism
of the aster Pilgrims: and the ﬁrst intimation which I had of our arri-
val was from some of the party dismounting at the Pilgrims’ Beach.
When I came up. 0! how beautiful it was !—how much more beauti-
ful than all pictures and all descriptions had led me to expect! The
only drawback was. that the stream was turbid ;—not only whitish. from
a sulphurous admixture, but muddy. But it swept nohly alon . with I
strong and rapid current. and many eddies, gushing between t e oppo
site limestone face and the woodland on our bank. now smiling the while
rock. and now ﬂowing in among the tall reeds, and now winding away
out of sight behind the poplars and spreading acacias and sycamom
ofthe promontories to the south. It is a narrow river; but it is truly
majestic from its force and loveliness. The vigorous. unspringingclﬂf
racter of the wood along its margin struck me much; and we saw I!
now in its vivid sprin green.

The Pilgrims’ Beac is a shelving bit of shore. kept bare for their
approach ; and here, with something like Arab “intensity," they rush
in in such numbers, and with so little precaution, that some are drowned
every year. This year, it was spoken of as a remarkable circum-
stance that only one was drowned. It must be a fearful sight,—'J1e
old people carried away by the crowd and the current from their slimy
footing near the shore, and the women and children from their hold
upon the overhanging branches: and when once they are swept among
the eddies. there is no chance for any but strong swimmers. What-
ever superstition there might be in us, there was none of the wild kind
which drives the Greek and Latin pilgrims thus headlong into the
stream. We wished to bathe, but we did it in safety. The ladit’s
went north; the gentlemen south. I made a way through the thicket
with difﬁculty till 1 found a little cove which the current scarcely dis-
turbed, and over which hung a sycamore whose lower branches dipPed
into the water. One might bathe here without touching the mud which
lay soft and deep beneath. The limestone precipice opposite, gal"
landed with weeds, and the wooded promontor which shot out below?
made the river particularly beautiful here; andy sorry I was to leave 1'
when the time came for us to mount and proceed.

It is useless to attempt to make out where the baptism of Jesus took
place, or where were the stations at which his disciples and John ad-
Page-427
was nun an. 425

ministered the rite. If there were monks on the spot, no doubt every
localit would be speciﬁed with the utmost precision. Happily. the
river ows on, free from any desecration of the kind. We had it to
ourselves. and wished for nothin beyond what we saw. We know
that the Glad Tidings once sprea along its whole course, echoed from
rock to rock, whispered from thicket to thicket, wherever there were
human hearts on the watch: and the whole region is so sweet and
sacred that we felt it enough to have touched the river in any point.

One thing more we did: we remembered friends at home. and in
lands as far from home as home is from the Jordan. We carried away
some of the water in tin cases provided for the purpose. This being
done, we were summoned to horse, and rode away southwards to the
Dead Sea.

The belt of woodland soon turned eastwards. and we found our-
selves exposed to extreme heat, on a desolate plain, crusted with salt,
and cracked with drought. There had been a closeness and murkii
ness in the air, all the morning, which were very oppressive; and now
it was, at our slow pace, almost intolerable. I put m horse to a fast
canter, and crossed the plain as quickly as possible, finding this pace
a relief to my horse, as well as myself. One and another came gal-
loping up, to obtain the same advantage, and our group reached the
shore some time before the bulk of the party. The horses hastened to
the bright clear water, and seemed to be deceived by its apparent fresh-
ness. for they put down their noses repeatedl .and as often drew back
in disgust. The drifton the beach looked reary enough: ridges of
broken canes and willow twigs washed up. and lying among the salt,
and the little unwholesome swamps of the shore. The scene was
really solemn in its dreariness; the retiring mountains on either hand
bein wholly bare,—of a dull gray with purple shadows,—hot and
parc d to the last degree. The curious lights which hung immova-
ble over the surface of the waters struck me as showing an unusual
state of the atmosphere,—the purple haze resting on one part, and the
line of silvery refraction in another. Though the sky was clear after
the morning clouds had passed away, the sunshine appeared dim; and
the heat was most oppressive.—I tasted the limpid water. which looked
as if it could not be nauseous. I took only about two drops; but I
thought I should never again get rid of the taste. It is salt beyond all
notions one can form of saltness; and bitter and fetid. And this is
the water that poor Costi n's coffee was made of!

Costigan was a young rishman. whose mind was set upon exploring
the Dead Sea. and giving the world the beneﬁt of his discoveries. It
would have been a useful service; and he had zeal and devotedness
enough for it. But he wanted either knowledge or prudence; and he
lost his life in the adventure, without having left us any additional in-
formation whatever. He sent a small boat overland. on camels’ backs,
to the Lake of Tiberius, and in this he set forth (in an open boat in the
month of July!) with only one attendant—a Maltese servant. They
followed the Jordan. entered the Dead Sea, and reached its southern
end, not without hardship and diﬁiculty. But the fatal struggle was
Page-428
420 must use.

in returning. The wind did not often favor them; and once it blew
such a squall that they threw overboard whatever came to hand: and
the ﬁrst thing that the servant threw over was their only cask of fresh
water. They were now compelled to row for their lives. to reach the
Jordan before they perished with thirst; but the sun scorched them
from a cloudless sky, and the air was like that of a furnace. When
Costigan could row no further, his servant made some coffee from the
water of the lake: and then they lay down in the boat to die. But
the man once more roused himself, and by man efforts brought the
boat to the head of the lake. They lay help see for a whole day
on that homing shore, unable to do more than throw the salt water
over each other from time to time. The next morning, the ser-
vant crawled away, in hopes of reaching Rihhah, which he did with
extreme diﬂiculty. He sent Costigun’s horse down to the shore.
with a supply of water. The poor young man was alive; and he was
carried to Jerusalem in the coolness of the night. He was taken care
of in the Latin convent there; but he died in two days. During
those hours of lingering, he never spoke of his enterprise; and not
a note concerning it was ever found among his effects. Any know.
ledge that he might have gained has perished with him; and no
reliable information could be obtained from his servant. Costigan’s
grave is in the Armenian burying-ground; and there I saw the stone
which tells his melancholy story. He died in lB35.—Another victim
to Dead Sea enterprise has perished since we were there ;—I believe
from drought and other hardship: and now there is a rumor of a new
expedition for this year. It is difﬁcult to imagine why it should not
succeed, if the arrangements are made with any prudence. If a
decked boat can really be conveyed to the Lake; and if there are
comrades enough in her to divide the labor and cheer each other; and
if they understand the management of a boat in a gusty lake, and are
well supplied with provisions and water,—conditions indispensable to
every enterprise of the kind.—-—one does not see why they should fail.
I am not aware that any accidents have happened from the difﬁculty of
the navigation of the Dead Sea, or from any singular causes of peril.
The excessive heat may be avoided by choosing the most favorable
season of the year; and it must be possible to take provisions and
water enough, supposing the Lake to be of the largest extent yet coa-
jectured. Some modern scientiﬁc travelers, who have surveyed it.
from various surrounding heights, declare its length not to exceed
thirty miles: while Josephus says it is 72$, and Pliny 100 miles
long. Its basin has probably contracted in length, in the course of ages.

There appears to be no satisfactory evidenceas to whether any ﬁsh
are to be found in the Dead Sea. Our guides said that some small
black ﬁsh have been seen there; but others deny this. A dead ﬁsh has
been found on the shore near the spot where the Jordan enters the lake;
but this might have been cast up by the overﬂow of the river. It is
said that small birds do not ﬂy over this lake. on account of the deleta
rious nature of its atmosphere. About small birds I cannot speak; but
I saw two or three vultures winging their way down it obliquely.—As
Page-429
n: am an. 427

for the quality of the written—those of the gentlemen who stayed behind
to bathe declared. on rejoining us at lunch time, that they had found
the common report of the buoyancy of the water of this sea not at all
exaggerated, and that it was indeed an easy matter to ﬂoat in it, and
ver difﬁcult to sink. They also found their hair and skin powdered
wit salt when dry. But they could not admit the greasiness or sticki-
ness which is said to adhere to the skin after bathing. They were
sitive about this: and they certainly did observe the fact ve care-
ully. Yet I have seen, since my return. a clergyman who bathe there.
and who declared to me that his skin was so sticky for some days after-
wards that he could not get rid of the feeling, evenfrom his hands.
And Dr. Robinson says, “After coming out,I perceived nothing of the
salt crust upon the body, of which so man speak. There was a sli ht
pricking sensation, especially where the s in had been chafed; an a
sort of greasy feeling, as of oil, upon the skin, which lasted for several
hours.“ The contrast of these testimonies, and the diversity which
exists among the analyses of the waters which have been made by
chemists, seem to show that the quality of the waters of the Dead Sea
varies. And it appears reasonable that it should; for it must make a
great difference whether fresh waters have been pouring into the basin
of the lake. over various soils. after the winter rains, or a great evapo-
ration has been going on under the summer’s sun. In following the
margin of the sea, we had to cross a creek, where my skirt was splashed.
These splashes turned presently to thin crusts of salt; and the moisture
and stickiness were as rent a week afterwards as at, the moment.

We wound among sat marshes and brakes, and round ,hillocks fea-
thered with ﬂowering reeds, and got into the bed of a stream, under the
ﬂecked shade of a shrub, to rest till the bothers overtook us. We were
rather dismayed to ﬁnd that we were still four or ﬁve hours from the
convent of Santa Saba, where we were to stop for the night. The way
was an almost continuous ascent, and in many parts a ve steep one.
We had to mount, from the deep depression of the valley 0 the Jordan.
to some of the highest ground in Judea. We followed the ravine through
which the Kedron runs (or did when it had any water; into the Dead
Sea,—some of our party taking the right hand ridge an others the left.
In a little while, the limestone hills below looked most fantastic,—com-
pletely answering to our idea of the abodes of the ﬁrst Christian her-
mits. I wished we could have known where the great Essene esta-
blishment of the time of John was placed: but I hope it was in a spot
less desolate than any now before our eyes. B degrees the Jordan
valley opened northwards. and the Dead Sea sout wards,till the extent
traversed by the eye was vast. How beautiful it must have been once,
when the Jordan valley, whose verdnre was now shrunk to a black line
amidst the sands. was like an interminable garden,and when the cities
of the plain stood bright and busy where the Dead Sea now lay blank
and gray! As I looked back from a great elevation, I thought that so
mournful a landscape, for one having real beauty, I had never seen.

' Biblical Researches, II. 213.
Page-430
428 nsrarut Lira.

Ibade adieu many times over to the Dead Sea: for it reappeared
unexpectedly again and again. Up and up we went, for four hours,
over stony hills, and windin round the bases of others, and through
deﬁles. and over stretches olgtable land, scantily grassed : and then up
hills again, following tracks which were at times hardly erceptihle;
but from point to point catching aview of the Dead Sea, til we seemed
to command its whole length. At last. it lay like a great pond among
its hot mountains, its deep blue paled into a gray, with streaks of white
light above it, wherever there was a dark back ground. It is a singular
object from such an elevation.

The approach to the Convent of Santa Saba is wonderful. The tracks
became so clear as to show that we were approaching water and habi-
tations. They led now down to the dry bed of Kedron. and now up
the sides of its ravine. till we entered upon a road out out of the rock.
and fenced with a wall of loose stones on the side next the gorge. This
road overhangs the ravine for, I think. about two miles. The sides of
the chasm are very precipitous; but the grassy ledges here and there
show that they were once terraced: and fragments of walls near the
innumerable holes in the rocks show the traveler that here he is in the
midst of the haunts of the old anchorites. The monks say that ten
thousand of them lived here: and some old writers declare that there
were fourteen thousand in Santa Saba’s time. What a place to live
in l—so hot and dreary at best, and most awful in tem est! In such
storms as belong to this country, this gorge must be ike the day of
doom :—no room for the lightning, and the thunder rolling continuously.
as the echoes will not let it die! Cyril. the Monk of Jerusalem. and
John Damascenus, and Euphemius lived here; and here young devo-
;ees were sent, to try whether they could bear monastic life in its severest

orm.

Saint Saba was a monk of the fourth century. who had great powers
of attraction, if, as is declared, he drew hither fourteen thousand ancho-
rites, and enticed waters from the hard rock. There is a spring in a
cavern at the bottom of the gorge which he created miraculously for the
use of his followers in this parched region. The monks of his convent
live under a very severe rule. never eating flesh, and mortifying their
feelings of Christian compassion by never admitting any woman within
their gates. under any stress of weather or other accident. There are
handsome accommodations for gentlemen.I was told. but of course I
did not see them. Mohammedans are almost as fearful as women to
the monks of Santa Saba, and they cannot enter the convent without
liabilit to a large ﬁne. We knew this beforehand. and we therefore
carrie tents enough for the ineligible members of the party, while the
gentlemen hoped to get lodgings within its walls.

It is an extraordinary place—its buildings so plunging down the pre-
cipice as to make it difﬁcult to say how much of the mass is ediﬁce.and
how much natural rock. We dismounted on a platform before the
great gate—a gate substantial and secure enough to serve for the Bank
of England. The platform was small, and dreadfully hot. Flies
swarmed in the tents, where there seemed to be not a breath of air.
Page-431
comm? or emu sun. 429

Our fati e to-day had been excessive; our traveling comforts ran short,
and it id not add to our ease to be told that some Bedoueens were
hanging about, and had stolen two of the horses of our escort. News
soon came that the horses were recovered, and that two muskets he-
longing to the thieves had been taken and brought into our little
encampment. where it seemed most likely that the owners would come
for them in the night. One of the gentlemen advised me to take great
care of my watch; which I would thankfully have done, if I had known
how. Our Mohammedan servants, however, were delighted at the op-
portunity of protecting the Christian ladies; and our dragoman lay
down at one end of our tent, and the cook at the other, beg ing us to
feel quite secure. One gallant youth of the company woul not enter
the convent while his mother and sister remained outside; and, there
being no room for him in their tent, he spent the night on the hard
rock—actually on an exposed shelf of rock—with his pistols and dag-
ger on each side of him. All were glad. I believe, when the momin
came, and we could ride away from ﬂies and ants, and heat, an
monks too holy to be hospitable, except to gentlemen who need it
least.

This convent is said to be in possession of many MSS., some of which
are inestimable. All I could learn of these was that the monks permit
Turks to look at them. but neither Jews nor Christians; an arrangement
which appears strangely at variance with that which makes it so difﬁ-
cult for Mohammedans to enter the building. After we had left the
place, we were told that a sort of Outhouse—a square buildin on a
rock, was open to women, if they chose to rest there; but we id not
know this in time to compare its accommodations with those of the
tent. ‘

Our three hours' ride to Jerusalem was delightful. The road led
over the hills, and was seldom far, away from the bed of Kedron. There
is no ﬁner view of Jerusalem than one from a hill side on this route,
whence it appears perched on a height which seems incredible, while
the intervenin ground is concealed by the nearer eminences. In the
valley of the edron, approaching the ancient Tophet, the cultivation
was very rich—gardens and oves of 6 s, oranges. pomegranates and
olives abounding. We passe Job’s wel , and under the rock caves of
the valley of Gihon, and below the mournful Aceldatna. and entered
Jerpisaletn by the Jade gate, after an excursion {all of interest and
pro t.
Page-432
480 unsure Lin.

CHAPTER V.

JERUSALEM.—-CHURCH OF THE HOLY SEPULCHRE.—VALLEY 0F
GIHON.-—PO0L AND FOUNTAIN 0F SlLOAM.—TOMBS OF THE PRO-
PHETS.—MOUNT 0F OLIVES.—GARDEN 0F GETHSEMANE—TOMBS
OF THE 'mGS,—GOVERNOR’S HOUSE.

I run avoided going to the church of the Holy Sepulchre in Easter
week. as I said before; but it was necessary to see it before leaving
Jerusalem. I was relieved to ﬁnd how easy it is to look at it as a mere
sight; and but for what I witnessed within the walls. I should not have
supposed that an educated erson of any Christian denomination could
have found his reli ions eeliugs involved in such a spectacle. To
think of Christ and hristianity in the midst of this church is like hav-
ing a reverie of sunrise from a mountain-top when one is looking at a

uppet-show. One is called away from contemplating that li ht that
'ghtens the Gentiles and is the glory of Israel, to loolr at such abulous
shows as it is a sin to put before the peasant and the infant. Yet here
are grown men, conducting the display, apparently in earnest; and
some who ought to know better giving that devout heed to what they
say which is in truth the deepest irreverence. What a puppet-show is
this place compared with the temples where I had seen the sculptured
Osiris. armed with the symbols of Justice and Judgment, executing his
function upon the dead! How noble are the traditions of Osiris, how
calm and pure the records of his life and doctrine, compared with the
dreadful thin which are here said of a greater than Osiris—said on a
spot within View of the Temple courts where he taught his simple doc-
trine, and the Mountain where he passed his holy hours! The only
thin to be done in such places as this church is to put aside entirely
the hristianity with which one is familiar, and look at what is before
one's eyes as one would look upon the ceremonies of the Jess-house in
China, or the exhibition of Medicine-Mystery at the Falls of the Missis-
sippi. The pain of it is in all this going on in such a locality, and in
the very name of the locality.

The greater part of this church is as like as need be to a heathen
temple, but without its grace. In grace, though not in rgeousness
and glitter, the shrines of Astarte in the time of Jezebe must have
surpassed this idol-temple, profanely called by the name of Christ.
From seeing the lamps. and marbles, and shining metals, and altars,
and the chapels of the Latins, Greeks and Armenians, we were led to
the nucleus of the building and its interests, the pretended se ulchre.
Here, under one roof, we were shown the garden-tomb, with t e stone
on which the announcing angel stood; the place of the cross,—-Mount
Calvary being a stair-case of twenty-two steps,—and about a dozen
sacred places, curiously disposed in an exact circle, a few feet distant
Page-433
cannon or all non mean. 431

from each other. Those who, looking at the city from the Mount of
Olives, can believe this ever to have been the site of Calvary, or of the
tomb in the adjacent garden, may believe in this circular scene of sa-
cred events. in the absence of all knowledge where Golgotha was, it
would require something better than any existing ,‘evidence to rave
that, as it was certainly outside the city, it could have been on the ower
slope of Acra. close by the ravine between Acra and Moriah, which
was ﬁlled up by the Asmonean princes ; a spot almost in the centre of
the city, as it was both before and after the time of Christ.——As for the
Calvary, the sockets of the three crosses are shown so close together,
that there could have been no room for them to stand, except one be-
hind another. The rending of the rocks must of course be displayed
on the same spot ;—a ﬁssure cased with marble. And, as the apostle
Paul says, that "as in Adam all die, so in Christ shall all be made
alive," the head of Adam was found in this ﬁssure beside the cross.
The pillar of scourging is brou ht here,and shown through an aperture.
The monks admit that this pit or has been shifted, with the same ho-
nesty with which their predecessors admitted to Dr. Richardson that
the stone which assumes to have once closed the mouth of the sepulchre
is a substitute f the real one; the Armenians having stolen the latter,
to exhibit at their convent on Mount Zion.

I have before mentioned that neither Jew nor Mohammedan could
enter this building with safety to lifter—except on the set festival occa-
sions when Turkish guards are wanted, and the Governor at Jerusalem
has to keep the Latin and Greek Christians from tearing one another’s
throats. No one will wonder that the Jews do not desire to enter this
idolatrous temple: but it is remarkable that the Mohammedans do not,
so devoutl as they usually pay homa e to the sacred places of the
prophets, rom Abraham to Christ. he reason in this instance is
curious. They do not believe in the sepulchre, because the ' do not
believe in the death of Jesus. The ' hold that he ascended alive into
heaven, leaving the likeness of his iace to Judas, who was executed.
They think it probable that the body of the cruciﬁed Judas may have
been laid here: so they would carefully keep away, even if the had
the freest liberty to enter; and they ridicule the mistake of the hris— .
tians who pay their homage at the shrine of the traitor. How like
the disputes of Fetish worshipers all this is! and how wholly alien
fromi all our conceptions of that devotion which Jesus taught and prac-
tice !

The circle of sacred places has to be made out by some bold stretch-
ing, of course: so we were shown the stocks in which the feet of Jesus
were put. When we reached the place where the soldier who struck
Jesus came to repent, we all laughed,—-the device was so exquisitely
innocent! Yet even these things are not too much for some people,
educated in England, who vie with these monks themselves in super-
stition. A lady stood in solemn attitude, with folded arms and bowed
head, while we examined the Calvary. When we moved on, she
threw back her veil, and we recognized in her an English lady, now a
Russian Countess, whom we met daily at the table d’héte at Cairo.
Page-434
432 [“13“ “II.

With a most extraordinary gesture, she cast aside her veil, threw open
her arms. prostrated herself at the altar, and not only covered the place
of the cross with kisses, but laid her head into the socket. I could
look no longer, and hastened away to see the one truly interesting thing
in the church.

The tombs of Godfrey of Bouillon and his brother Baldwin were once
shown here ;—sarcophagi on small marble pillars. It is said that the
Greeks destroyed them: and we could ﬁnd only the place where these
heroes were said to have been buried. Two stone seats were called
the tombs; but we understood them as merely pointing out the locality.
The inscription on Godfrey’s tomb is worth preserving. at the risk of
some repetition. It is this:

" Hic jacet inclytus Dux Godefridus de Bulion, qui totam istam
terrain ncquisivit cultui Christiano; cujus anima regnet cum Christa.
Amen."

His sword and spurs were here.—relics, of whose genuineness there
is no reason to doubt. When I handled them. I was glad I had come.
The sword is not very heavy—plain, and with a hilt which seemed to
us to suit rather a small hand.

In the area in front of the church, there is always a little market of
beads, cruciﬁxes, carved shells. &c.; and here the beggars collect. alarm-
ing the stranger into giving alms, under penalty of contact with their

clothes. The dragotnan had to lay about him with a stout stick before
we had any peace.

Our refreshment while in this heathen metropolis of Christendom
was in our walks in the environs. While wandering among the great
natural objectsp—the valleys, pools, and hills which superstition can-
not meddle with or disguise, all was right. we could recognize for our-
selves the haunts of Jesus, and enter into his thoughts.—We went out
h the Bethlehem-gate, and along the Valley of Hinnom or Gihon.

ere, and down to the junction of this ravine with the Valley of Jeho-
shaphat. at the ancient Tophet, were once the idol-groves and shrines
where. in the days of Solomon, the worship of Jehovah was joined
with that of the lin ering deities of the prior inhabitants. Here, in
later days, did Jezeﬁel and her royal train come forth to their festivab.
and see the ﬁres lighted in honor of Moloch, where children were
through the ﬂames, as a sort of charm, like that which subsists to this
day among the easantry of some Catholic countries. Here, in a yet
later day, were ept up smouldering ﬁres which consumed the dead
bodies of malefactors and garbage, making the ravine that accuraed
place " where the worm died not, and the ﬁre was not quenche ;"—
the place which was to the Hebrews the image of hell : and overhang-
ing it, on the opposite hill, was the Potter’s Field, where strangers
were buried; and for so long a course of time, that many bones are
still crumbling there. The groves and gardens of the idolaters are
gone; the harp and tabret (Toph, from which came the name of Tophet),
which drowned the cries of the children, and exalted the mirth of the
revelers, are new never heard there. The bodies of criminals, thrown
there to stigmatize the scene of idolatry, and the ﬁlth of the city. have
Page-435
mm or was seems-rs. 488

ages since, been swept away by torrents which have themselves dis-
appeared. having brought down earth which now yields food to man.
The worm is dead and the ﬁre is quenched; and there remain only the
empty sepulchres, yawning in the red rock,and the desolate Aceldama
on the hill. The soil washed down by the winter rains is detained by
arming, and made to yield thin crops of wheat and barley, and to sup
port a few scattered olive trees. Further down, at the conﬂuence of
the old torrent and Kedron, the soil is deeper. and rich enough to en-
courage s full cultivation. There, thickets of omegranate and orange
refresh the eye, and lead one to look round En the pools from which
they are watered.

The ﬁrst we meet is the Well of Job, as it is now called: though it
need not be explained that here is no more reason for supposing the
ancient Arab Job to have been there than at any place in Europe.
The Franks call it the Well of Nehemiah, which is more reasonable.
This well was sounded by Pococke. and found to be 122 feet deep: yet
it sometime overﬂows. What a treasure this must always have been
to the city, and what an object to its beaiegers. is clear. Turning up
to the left, towards the Valley of Jehoshaphat, we came next to the
Pool of Siloam, whose waters run of? to fertilize the gardens at the
junction of the valleys. This pool is fed from a spring above, by a
channel in the rock. Its form is that of an oblong square, and it has
the beauty which belongs to all ancient buildings here,—the crumbling
stone. and tufts and garlands of weeds. The pool. which is usually
called the Fountain of Siloam, further on, is more beautiful, from its
waters lying in the deep shadow of the rock. We went down into a
cave, and by a descent of broad wet steps, out in the rock, to the dim
pool, where an Arab woman was washing clothes,—her picturesque
ﬁgure adding not a little to the beauty of the scene. This water was
not used for drinking in former times. nor is it now. It was used, in
the time of the Temple,for ablution by the priests, before ﬂowing down
in the rock to this cave; and it has been since so traditionally employed
aswe saw it today. that both Monks and Mohammedans say it was
there that the Virgin washed her son's linen. It was at the pool, and
not this spring. that the blind man was supposed to have washed : and
the spring must have been held pure in the days when the riest came
down from the Water-gate above, with his golden ewer, to etch water
for the Temple service.

Then we crossed the bed of Kedron. and began to ascend the slope
of Olivet, under the excavated tombs. After mountin the steep ascent
by a zi ag path for some way, we were led intoa bar ey-ﬁeld, through
the mi st of the corn, towards a group of olive trees, among whose roots
was an entrance into a cave. where we should least have looked for
one. Lighted candles were put into our hands, and we went in to ex-
plore. It appeared to us an extraordinary place, and we wondered
that we heard no more of it. We had heard of the Tombs of the Kings,
and the Tombs of the Judges, but not of these Tombs of the Prophets.
We well knew that this old valley had been watered with the blood of
the prophets, as too often with the team of true-hearted Hebrew“ we

28
Page-436
(84 smart urn.

felt as if we trod upon their dust wherever we turned at the footol' this
Mount: but it was a surprise to be told that we were actually standing
in their sepulchre. Whether this is likely to be true, we did not
know: but there can be no doubt of this being a place of sepulturo.
Many passages diverged from the entrance: and though there were no
inscriptions, not other express guidance, the recesses and niches showed
plainly enough that these caverns, reached by a mere hole among the
olive-roots, had been an abode of the dead.

Then we went up (and not for the only time) to the summit ot‘ Oli-
vet, which is really a long and toilsome walk from the city, and not a
mere ascent of a gentle slope, as we had always at home supposed.
The Convent of the Ascension stands on this ridge; and a family lives
on the spot, to keep and show the Mosque which covers the foot-print
of Christ,-—the spot from which he sprang from the earth! The other
is in the Mosque of Omar. It seemed hard to encounter this idolatrous
nonsense in such a place; but the Mount is high and wide; and else-
where our feelings might remain undisturbed. We ascended the
minaret. the second time we came here. for the sake of the View: and
there is no other to be compared to it. We commanded the whole city.
as it lay on the opposite summit; and a truly noble city it looked.
Every cupola, and almost every stone, was distinct to the eye through
that pellucid atmosphere, and the whole mass absolutely glittered
against the clear sky. We could follow out by the ﬂat roofs the nar»
row winding streets, and mark the extent of the many unoccupied
spaces now laid waste. but where there was once ,. prosperity within
her palaces." How glorious must the Temple buildings have looked
from here, towering over the Valley of Kedron. and the gilded roof of
the Sanctuary ﬂashing in the sun ! We could now see, as on a pre-
ceding Friday, the gary roups scattered about the green lawns of the
Mosque of Omar. O oﬁi, other groups might have been seen there,
among the colonnades of the temple courts ;—the gentiles in their court ;
the money-changers and market people in the outer range,—the wo-
men going up with their offerings, and the priests passingto and fro on
their services. This was a sight, too, for the Roman soldiers who might
come up hither from the encampment of their legion below. They
would see the smoke of the sacriﬁce curling up into the clear evening
sky; and the watchman relieving uard upon the walls. It" the breeze
blew hitherward, they might possi ly hear the challenge of the senti-
nels: and. at all events, the glorious martial music of the Hebrews.—
the full swell of their wind instruments,—a music beyond compare for
musing valor or devotion,—would come on the night wind. to thrill or
soothe the souls of the very foe. This was the spot for seeing how the
Lion of Judah stood at bay with the hunters. From hence spread a
wide view of that country, rich from side to side.——{ro¢n where the
Dead Sea glittered in the morning sun. and the plain of Jordan spread
like a garden, on the east. to where, on the west, the pastures were
clothed with ﬂocks, and the hills teemed with corn. and oil. and wine.
-—that rich country which the Hebrews might have en’oyed in luxury,
if they could have remained submissive to Rome. lint that country
Page-437
nous-r or onms. 435

lay almost deserted during the siege. because the inhabitants had gone
up to Jerusalem to the Feast, and were shut in by the foe, and would
not yield. Far away stretched the fruitful ﬁelds. and the young lambs
were abroad without a shepherd; and here at hand, within these city
walls, was the mother slaying her sucking child for food ! Here, while
baited, exhausted, pierced on every side, did the Lion of Judah stand
at bay with the hunters.

This is not, however, the spot from which, according to tradition,
Jesus pronounced the doom of the city. That spot is a little way down
the hill; and it is marked by the ruins of a small convent. It might
have been the place; for it commanded the Temple buildings, and a
ﬁne view of the city. The lamentation commemorated here was not
thatinvocation to Jerusalm. as the destroyer of the prophets, which is
usually called the weeping of Christ over Jerusalem. That touching
lament was uttered in the temple, at the elm of a denunciation of the
Pharisees. It was in leaving the Temple—that Temple of Herod
which was new within the memory of the generation who heard him.
and of which the nation was proud,—_that the disciples pointed out to
him “ what manner of stones and of buildings” were there. and that he
intimated the ruin that must come. They passed the gates, crossed
the brook, and “sat upon the Mount of Olives over against the Tem-
ple:” and then the disciples asked him privately what was the ruin
which he had foretold.

To this incident we owe the clearest exposition we are in possession
of, of the belief and doctrine of Jesus in regard to his kingdom. That
it was a spiritual kingdom, not to be won by war, and not limited to
the expulsion of the Roman power from Palestine, or the mere re-es-
tablishment of the Mosaic system in its purity under a Jewish monarch,
had long been evident. But from this moment it was made clear what
his expectation was, as understood by his followers, and recorded by
those who some ears afterwards wrote his history for the information
of the world! uke, in addressing Theophilus, undertakes to review
and consolidate. from the many written accounts circulated at the time
of his historyd' the narrative and expositions which exhibit the facts and
teachings of Christ; and he delivers to us, somewhat less at large than
Matthew and Mark, what it was that Jesus declared on this occasion,
concerning the approaching establishment of his kingdom: and that
the expectation now sanctioned was entertained by the disciples
throughout the existing generation, we know from the distinct state-
ments of Paul (1 Thessalonians, IV. 13—18). The kingdom of Christ
was to come in that eneration,by the destruction of the existing world,
when not onl the Temple should be overthrown. but the powers of
the world an the frame of nature. There was to be a new heaven
and a new earth: Christ was to come, attended by the risen dead and
by heavenly beings; and those of his followers who remained alive
were to meet him in the air, and be rendered immortal without the in-

- Matt. xxw. xxv.; Mark x111; Luke xxr. t Luke 1. 1—4.
Page-438
‘80 usual m.

tervemion of death.‘ A spiritual kingdom was to be established which
should supersede the Law: but the Law was to be carefully maintained
till then. He did not come to overthrow the Law and Prophets; but
to fulﬁl them. His present mission was to restore the Mosaic system
to its purity; to rebuke the legal pedantry of the Pharisees, and dis~
countenance their preference of the oral 14w over the written; to re
vive the soul and spirit of the Mosaic dis ensation, in preparation for
its abolition and his second coming? A ter that second coming. his
immediate followers were to be the Judges of his kingdom, sitting on
twelve thrones, to judge the tribes of lsraelJ: Of the precise time
when this should happen, he declared that he knew nothing. God
alone knew this: but he himself could say only that that generation
should not pm sway till all this was fulﬁlled.§—Whea that generation
had passed away. and the destruction was found to be limited toll!
conquest of the land and nation by the Ramos, the record of what was
said on this spot on Olivet was naturally referred to a still future com-
ing of Jesus: and it is known that this expectation troubled the Church
and its rulers for some centuries, though. through the junction of the
Oriental and Jewish philosophers, and the spread from Alexandria of s
Platonizing Christianity. a more and more deﬁnite reference of this do-
oourse to a still future state of the human soul. excluding the doctrineof
the resurrection of the body, gained ground. In ages when the study if
the Sacred Records was conﬁned to a small number of readersnnd
when those readers were of a class whose minds were sophisticated
by the converging philosophies and superstitions of many nations and
times. it may not be wonderful that so plain a statement of the expec-
tations of Christ,—or of his reoorders’ understanding of them—should
have been slighted or perverted: but now that the records are in the
hands of all men. and that men are learning that the Scriptum are re-
cords and not oracles, it seems impossible that there should be much
more dispute about as clear and plain a statement as ever was penned.

No one spot of the Holy Land can be more interesting to a pilgrim
than this. There can be no doubt of the incidents recorded. It in
narrative which could not have been written but from the life. In many
other parts of the narratives selected {or the use of the world fm the

at number written in the ﬁrst generation, we have to remember and
consider well the position and minds of the writers, the lapse of time
during which fresh ideas had been ﬂowing in upon them. and the color
their narratives must inevitably take from the character of the people
for whom they were written, in order to see as the writers saw, and W
deduce from their various statements the intermediate truth by which
we must abide. In general, it is no light work for the sincere and re-
verent mind to read the gospel history, so as to come within reach (I
the actual voice of Jesus, and listen to it among the perplexing echoes
of his place and time ;-—to separate it from the Jewish contraction ti

' Matt. XXIV. 30, 31; Mark XIII. 26, 27; Luke XXI. 27; l Thessalon'nu
IV. 15—17. _ f Mm V. 17—20.
Matt. XIX. 28.
Matt XXIV. 34, 36; Mark XIII. 30; Luke XX]. 32.
Page-439
omen or am. 487

Matthew.—the traditional accretions and arrangements of Mark and
Luke.—and the Platonizing medium of John ;—a care and labor which
it is profane and presumptuous to omit or make light of: but in this
instance, the record is clear, and been its historical truth upon them
of it. After his mom vehement denunciations of the Pharisees and
their teachings, as the vitiaters of the Law and the oppressors of the
ople. Jesus was leaving the Tem le. His companions pointed out to
im the grandeur and solidity of t is new ediﬁce. of which every reli-
'ous Jew was proud. He, believing the end of the existing world to
a near, observed aloud how little this grandeur and solidity would avail.
His disciples. perplexed, and unable to explain his meamn . came and
inquired of him, as he pursued his way up the Mount of lives. He
sat down here. over against the Temple. at the point whence its build-
ings looked most magniﬁcent, and repeated his declaration that it would
be overthrown. From this he went on to say much of the time and
the object; that it should be within the existing generation, after much
war and political convulsion, and in order to the establishment of the
Messiah’s kingdom :—a kingdom so spiritual as that the dead should
rise and reign with him. He went on to declare the process and terms
of this admission‘ of the dead to his kingdom, promising to own and
admit the watchful, the pure. the faithful. the charitable.—those who
should adhere to him in difﬁculty and danger. who should visit the
sick. the poor. and the prisoners. and who should keep up a steady
watch for his coming; and to disown and reject the careless, and cow-
ardly and heartless. It is an aﬂ'ecting moment for the pilgrim who
stands on that spot. with the same round under his feet, and the same
hill of Moriah before his eyes, when e surveys at once the three periods
of time concerned ;—the imposing, calm and prosperous aspect of the
scene when the disciples asked that pregnant question: the tumult
when the Temple was burning, and the hopes of the world seemed to
be carried away in the smoke of the conﬂagration: and the present
time, when a partial phase of Christianity has succeeded, under the
name of a new prophet, and all looks outwardly dead. while the king-
dom of Christ has actually come in a better manifestation than that of
thronesd’ and new wine¢ and a heavenly Jerusalem—in the new hea-
vens and new earth of the regenerated human mind.

Descending the Mount, we came to a place of a diﬂ'erent but very
deep interest. We cannot be sure that the enclosure pointed out as
the garden of Gethsemane is the precise spot: but [believe there is
no reason why it should not be. It was the custom of Jesus to spend
the night out of Jerusalem§ at the time of the Feasts; and this place
was in his accustomed track; and it corresponds well with the particu-
lars told of the approach of his ca tors. Gethsemane is now most for-
lorn. It is an enclosure of neary 200 feet square, where we found
nothing but eight extremely old olive trees. which are kept standing
only by little terraces of heaped stones built up about their roots. How

o Matt. xxv. 1‘ Matt. XIX. 28.
1 Matt. XXVI. 29; Mark XIV. 25; Luke XXII. 30. 5 Luke XXI. 37.
Page-440
433 mm" mm.

old these hoary, shattered. straggling trees may be, we could not leans.
No one seems to know what age the olive may attain. Of course,
there is a desire to suppose them to be the identical trees under whose
shade Jesus sat; or. at least, suckers from their roots: but I suppose it
will not be seriously maintained that olive trees really live through
eighteen centuries. It is enough to imagine that here was once a.
shade. whether of pomegranate, vine. and ﬁg, or of an olive grove,
where the Teacher came to rest from the sorrows of the city or the
glare of the valley. [f here he also sustained the anguish of relin-
quishing life so soon after the beginning of his course,—iu such early
days of his life and his mission,—before his followers had comprehended
the spiritual character of his kingdom, or the nation had taken into its
heart the living faith that Jehovah their King was their Father and the
Father of all men, this place is indeed the most sacred shrine of human
sorrow l I am glad to have seen it; to know how the shades of even.
ing gathered about him at the foot of the Mount; and how it was that
he saw the multitude issue from the city gate. and come down the
steep hill-side road, with their torches ﬂaring, and their arms glittering
in the yellow blaze. Step by step, he must have seen them approach.
—out of the city. down the hill. over the brook, and up to the garden,
where he came forth from under the trees to meet them, asking them
why they came with tumult and arms, when it was never his way to
conceal himself or to resist.

We haunted this valley more than any other spot in or near Jerusa-
lem : and at different times visited all the objects interesting to a trn-
veler, except the Tomb of the Virgin (so called by the monks). We
knocked at the gate more than once. but the knock was never answered;
and we felt no concern at this, for the place is one of no religious in-
terest. We went among the more conspicuous sculptured tombs in the
Valley of Jehoshaphat ;—those named after Absalom. Jehoshnphat.
Zachariah, and St. James; and one day. we found our way above and
through the village of Siloam. There is no tower there now, to fall on
men’s heads. It is a very poor village, whose inhabitants look wild
enough: but still, thereis a grandeur about it, as there is about all such
places, from the substantial character of the building.—-We went, of
course, to the Tombs of the Kings, to the north of the city. The en-
tablature here, sculptured with fruit and flowers, is considered the most
elegantwork of art in or about Jerusalem. It has an air of incongruity.
however, a modernness, which prevented our feeling much interest
about it; while, as a tomb, the interior was so like an imitation on a
small scale of what we had seen in Egypt. without explanatory remains,
that a cursory look satisﬁed us. Dr. Robinson conjectures“ this to be,
as Pococlre had before suggested, the tomb of the Empress Helena.
who is known to have elaborated a ﬁne sepulchre for herself at Jerusa-
lem. The position of this tomb is striking ;—in a deep trench. and ac~
cessible only by an arch in a rock partition between two sunk arm:
but within we found mere square chambers, with fragments of paneled

' Biblital Researches, I. 536.
Page-441
tone or m mes. 489

doors, and sarcophagi, very narrow, modern looking, and (at least, one)
covered with small sculpture,—ﬂowers and fruit. ,

We asked permission to go to the top of the Governor‘s house, for
the sake of obtaining the best view that can be had from without of the
Mosque of Omar. This palace is actually on the site of Fort Anto-
nia; and it was strange to look down from it into the Temple inclosare,
and think that both Temple and palace are preserving their function in
such changed hands. We were seated on the roof with much civility,
and coffee was sent us; and we took our time about this last gaze upon
Moriah. The Mosque and its appurtenances are truly very ﬁne—gay
and graceful in its elaborate structure 6 and the springing arches of the
avenues to its platform; and the arcades round the circuit walls, where
the priests’ houses are; and the row of cypresses, with worshipers at
prayer beneath them—every incident conveying the sense of the cheer-
fulness and lightness of a ritual and predestinarian religion. As we
were taming into the Governor's house, and I had my thoughts full of
Pilate and his dreaming wife, and Peter at the ﬁre below, and the
scenes which passed in the Judgment Hall, the voice of the Maezzin
calling to prayer fell upon my ear. He was in the gallery of the
minaret close at hand, at the corner of the inclosure of the Mosque of
Omar. The pathetic cry sounded over the space, and thrilled on the
unaccustomed ear; but how much less moving and sweet is it than an-
other summons once heard here—the call to the “weary and heavy-
laden l”

On the last week-day, we were much in the bazaars, making pur-
chases in preparation for our long ride to Damascus. Four soldiers
and a citizen came to help us in our bargaining, which made it very
amusin . Neither they nor any one else seemed to have anything to
do; an we saw them to great advantage—playing with snakes on the
shop-board, or smoking, or simply staring at us. While my compan-
ions were groaning over the hardships of the pavement, I felt thatl
would not exchange the beauty of the streets for any pavement what-
ever. The eye was gratiﬁed at every turn by the deep arches, vaults,
interiors. weedy old walls, the very handsome people, the black sha-
dows, and pencils or ﬂoods of light.

We spent that Saturday evening very pleasantly at the Consul's.
meeting some members of the Mission, the extraordinary old lady who
took such good care of herself on board the steamer on the Mahmoo-
dieh Canal, and a party of oﬁcers from the English brig Harlequin.
then lying off Beyrout. From these ofﬁcers we heard a world of Eu-
ropean news, after our long wandering in African and Asian deserts;
and in one of them I found a member of a family of old friends in m
native city. It was strange enou h, after talking over old Norwi
and its ways, and the state of the ying O’Connell, and various doings
in Parliament, to walk home through the streets of Jerusalem, and see
the moon hanging above the Mount of Olives.

Our last day, Sunday, was very quiet. We walked only to the
church; but we took a ride towards Bethlehem, to try our new horses:
the horses which carried as to Damascus ﬁrst, and afterwards over the
Page-442
“0 manual.

Lehman. and down to Beyrout. My chestnut mat-e wasthe heat of the
lot. I liked her much to-day; but I was desired not to set my heart
upon her. as there was no security for my ever seeing her again. If
an one should. within twenty hours, bribe the owner. I m ht he put
with some sorry beast that would spoil my pleasure. genom-
iug. however. there she was; and we never parted aguu till I had to
leave the saddle for the steamer; and she carried me perfecdy well the
whole way.

We were glad to have one more view of Bethlehem, which we had
not expected to see again. We rode as far south as the convent of St.
Elias; and thence Bethlehem looked well on in hill promontory, omn-
manding the plain towards Mosh.

The next morning. April 12th, we set forth for Samaria.

 

CHAPTER VI.

SAMARITANS.—SIMON MAGUS.—WAYSIDE SCENERY.—JA(I)B'S WELL
AT SYCHAR—SAMARITAN SYNAGOGUFa—SEBASTE—DJENEEN.

IT was no light event to be setting forth for Samaria.—-to be leaving
the kingdom of Judah for that of Israel. What we had to bear in
mind in this expedition, was brieﬂy this.

Samaria was given to the posterity of Joseph. It was inhabited by
the tribe of Ephraim and half that of Manssseh. David and Solomon

reigned over Israel and Judah united. After them, the kingdom were
separated, and Shechem or Sychar. now Nahlons. already a very au-
cient city. was made the capital of the kingdom of Israel. We were
going now among the haunts of Elijah and Elisha: and over the places
where the worship of Baal and Ashtaroth reached its utmost splendor,
under the inﬂuence of the zeal of Jezebel, who brought In the gods of
her native region to vie with the God of Israel We were approaching
the meeting point of the religious. and other ideas of the Egyptians who
came up in alliance. and the Syrians who came hither from Damascus
through the great valley of the Lebanon. sometimes in friendship. and
sometimes in enmity. To this rendezvous of peoples and ideas. the
Assyrians also came. and wrought more powerfully on the mind of the
Samaritans than even the Egyptians and the Syrians. The inhabitants
of Samaria had before been of mixed race, worship, and charmter of
mind; and when their ahlest men were carried away to Nineveh. and
colonized in Assyria. and Assyrians were leﬂ in their places. to‘interh
marry with the native women, and establish themselves in the towns
and ﬁelds of Samaria, it is no wonder that the Jews dreaded intercourse
with them as a mongrel and half-idolatrous race, and refused to let them
assist at the re-huilding of the Temple at Jerusalem. If the Samaritans
wished to hold to the Law of Moses, and to worship Jehovah. and yet
were excluded from assisting to re-huild the Temple at Jerusalem. it is
no wonder that they built a temple for themselves on Mount Geriaim:
Page-443
run antennas. 44!

and again, if the Jews wished to preserve any appearance of unity of
race and faith, it is no wonder that they refused to have any dealings
with a people who had for generations intermarried with heathens, and
regarded Jehovah as only the chief of several gods. And if the Jews
believed it essential,” they now did, that there should be butone altar
of Jehovah, it is no wonder that they regarded with horror the build-
ing of the temple on the mountain. It was natural, again, that lax-
minded Jews, who had broken the Law, by marrying heathen wives
and otherwise, and who yet wished to worship Jehovah in his temple,
should resort to Sychar, to join the Samaritans,—thus rendering their
race yet more mixed. Here were causes enough for there being “ no
friendly dealings" between the Jews and the Samaritans.—But there
was, besides, the quarrel about their Scriptures,—each people chargin
the other with having falsiﬁed the texts about the mountains Ebal an
Gerizim, and each claiming to hold the true copy of the Pentateuch.—-
The quarrel had been ﬁerce for above ﬁve hundred years before the
time of Christ. How many suns had gone down upon the wrath of
these neighbors, who claimed the same origin and the same Godl It
was bitter in proportion to its duration, and to the close connection of
the foes: so that it was only natural that the people of a Samaritan
village should refuse to permit Jesus to rest there,‘ because his face
was turned to Jerusalem; and that James and John should ask for the
destruction of this village by ﬁre from heaven. And how beautiful
was the rebuke! What an exemption from Jewish prejudice and
human an er was there in the reply which showed that a greater than
Elias was ere ;——one whose mission was not one of vengeance, but of
redemption :-who came. “ not to destroy men's lives, but to save
them !" How soothing and uniting was the declaration that the old
quarrel about the place of worship was to be left behind and forgotten;
-—that,henceforth worship need be-conﬁned neither lo’ the Mountain
nor Jerusalem, but should be universal,—-in spirit and in truth !—And
how were rebuke and charity combined in the parable, when the good
works of the alien Samaritan were exalted above the official sanctity
of the Priest and of the servant of the Temple at Jerusalem !

And then, coming down lower than the time of Christ, a great in-
terest attaches to Samaria. The Book of Acts (chap. viii.) tells how
freely the country people of Samaria accepted the gospel, and were re-
ceived into its fellowship, on the preaching of Philip: and several of
the Fathers give us very curious and interesting accounts of the False
Christ whose dealings with the apostles are brieﬂy related in that chap-
ter of the Acts. Ireuzens,0rigen, and Eusebius give copious accounts
of this Simon; in the reading of which, however, it is necessary to re-
member the bias under which they wrote.—It appears that two false
Christs. conspicuous above all others. arose, as Eusebius says,‘l’ imme-
diately after the ascension of Jesus. claiming to be gods, but in reality,
actuated by devils :—these were Simon of Samaria, and Apollonius
of Tyana. With the latter, we have nothing to do: but Simon is an

' Luke IX. 52—56. T Hist. Ecclesiast, Lib. 1!. cap. xii.
Page-444
442 amass use.

interesting historical personage to those who follow the footsteps of
Jesus and the Apostles through Samaria.

Simon was half a Jew, of the class of the Speculatists, and the perb
son who. bringing the doctrines of the East into connection with those
of the Jewish sects, founded. not directly and purposely, but by the
spread of his tenets, the schools of the Gnostics. to which may be
traced many of the corruptions with which Christianity is overlaid to
this day. When the apostles visited Samaria. they found Simon in
great power and activity. His Samaritan hearers listened eagerly to
his attacks upon the great prophets of the Jews ;—-even upon Moses
himself. They exalted his miracles, told of his power of raising the
dead, and, as Eusebius says, regarded him with great reverence, as one
come from God. They had, as yet, hardly heard of the Prophet of
Nazareth: and it appears, from the account in the Acts. that Simon
would willingly have joined the Nazarene community. but for the
cause of alienation which arose. He appears to have been an earnest
mam—an enthusiast in the use of his own powers of healing, and in
the practice of his arts of magic; and he formed the low conception of
Christianity which appears in his offer to Peter to purchase the com-
munication of the powers which he saw exercised by the disciples.
We must remember that there was reality at the bottom of the practice
of Magical arts in the East; and that Simon. like other eastern sages
and prophets, held his arts of healing and divination as scientific secrete.
He was willing to pay for accessions to his knowledge; and his sin-
cerity is proved, not only by this offer, but by his consternation when
he found how his offer was reprobated as gross impiety. " Then an-
swered Simon and said. Pray ye to the Lord for me, that none of these
things which ye have spoken come upon me."‘ When the Christian
disciples heaped shame and accusation upon him, he resumed his
former positio'n and ofﬁce, and preached his own doctrine. in opposi-
tion to theirs; and by nothing has Christianity suﬂ'ered more; for the
learning and high gifts of Simon Magus gave him a hold upon minds
of no mean order, in which the two doctrines became to a great extent
united,—grievonsly to the degradation, of course. of Christianity.

Simon adopted the belief prevalent among the Egyptians, the specu-
lative Jews, and the nations east of them, that the Divine Idea of the
Universe.—sometimes called Wisdomd’ sometimes the Word, some-
times the Creative Power. is manifested to men in human form.
Among the triads and trinities of the heathen world, this Intelligence
or Wisdom was the female member.—the Isis of Egypt. the Mother
Enno'ia of Simon Magus. This second person of the triad was called
the Virgin of God, and the Spouse of God; and when the female titles
were put away,—as when Osiris was the personage in question, the
titles were “ the ﬁrst-born of God."——“ the only Son of God,” “the
universal Man." and many others: The third function of the Triad
was fulﬁlled by the Operative Power which was the necessary cousc-

- Acts VIII. 24. T Proverbs Vlll. 22—31.
I Salvador, “Jesus Christ et so Doctrine," L 199, 200.
Page-445
snort leans. 448

quence of the Primitive Will and the ﬁrst-conceived Idea, or Intelli-
gence; which Will and Idea must be carried out into action. Many
so as had taught this doctrine, in various countries, for centuries; but-
I 0 not know that any one before Simon Magus attempted to exhibit
any Personitications, beyond that of divine messages in their own per-
sons. But Simon went to a length which proves what his own enthu-
siasm must have been, to induce toleration from his own mind. and
from others. He presented to his followers the second person of his
triad in the form of awoman named Selena, whom he called the Divine
Idea. He himself assumed to be God; or, let us suppose, a manifes-
tation of the spirit of God: and he was received as he desired. Justin
Martyr, in his Second Apology, mentions a pillar which in his time
existed at Rome, and which bore inscribed “Simoni Deo Sancto :” and
Irenteus says, “ This Simon, therefore, was received by many as God.”
The Simonian doctrine was. brieﬂy,rthat from this Virgin-mother En-
no‘ia had sprung a secondary order of beings, by whom the world was
created and all things done, under the limitation that the progeny was
to remain ever attached to the parent,—the Active Agency to the Pri-
mal Thought. The progeny were disobedient, and held the mother
captive, while they wrought all manner of abuses, and confounded ideas
of good and evil. The Law of Moses and the prophets were declared
(under the Samaritan prejudices of the philosopher), to share the con-
fusion of the work of these fallen agents. Restoration could be hoped
for only through the Teacher, who had come upon earth in a human
form. to redeem mankind from their fall from their original purity. by
bringing them a renovation of meir nature. He presented himself to
them as being “at once the image of the true Eternal Father, the true
Son and Messiah of God, and the true Holy Spirit."" Simon and
Selena were worshiped as Jupiter and Minerva, also. How strange
it is, no one can imagine who has not felt it, to ﬁnd in Simon Magus
the meeting point of so many ideas in a mind which once never
dreamed of any connection among them. When in my childhood, I
read of the ﬁrst case of Simony in Christian society, the case from
which the sin took its name,—and pitied the sincere but low-minded
convert who met with such rebuke and punishment from Peter, how
little did I dream that the idea of this man would expand till i should
see in. him the chief of False Christs. the personiﬁer of the allegories
of the East, the Osiris of a known age. a Jupiter within our era, and
the latest association of interest with the soil of Samaria, whose ear
liest interest arises from its being the territory of the children of Jo-
seph! The blame of corrupting Christianity by the infusion of his
doctrine into the traditions of the disciples, is not due to Simon him-
self. He opposed the disciples. and their converts, and his disciples
opposed each other; but we have no reason to believe that he so far

‘ Salvador. “Jésua Christ et sa Doctrine," I. €200, €201. Irenrrus, as cited by Sal-
vador, says, " Hic igitur Simo a rnultis quasi Deus gloriﬁmtus est, et docuit semetip-
sum ease qui inter Judreos quidem quasi Filius ndparuerit. in Samaria autem quasi
Pater descenderit, et in reliqnis VCIO gentibus quasi Spiritus Sanctns adventirit.”—
17m adorn. Hares. Lib. 1. cap. 20.
Page-446
444 um“ urn.

embraced Christianity, aﬂer Peter’s repulsion, as to have the power of
immediately adulterating it. It was through his schools that the cor

'ruption reached Christianity, when men who held both doctrines began
fatally to blend them, overlaying the simple teachings of Jesus with
mysteries and allegories and fables, as injurious to the honor of God
and the moral operation of the gospel as the devices of the Pharisees
had been in the far less important case of the system of Moses. Thst
Simon Magus lived on the hill towards which we were now setting our
faces, is a misfortune to many a child in England born within this year.
That the company of the apostles should have had among them such I
poet and theologian as John the Evangelist, and that he should have
become the apostle of Asia, and have applied its theosophy to the inter-
pretation of scriptural records and facts, may occasion perplexity and
uneasiness to Bibliolators; but it cannot fail to work well in the end.
As Salvador says‘ of John and his writings. “ the purpose that he had
of absorbing into the doctrine of his master the highest theosophic ideas
of the oriental Jews among whom he spent the greater part of his life.
caused him to have recourse to forms, and to a language altogether
whose meaning we may suppose to have been never familiar to his
eleven colleagues. Far, however. from complaining of the diﬂ'ereneasv
of the contradictions even. which we meet with in this quadruple
monument (the Four Gospels) we must see that these differences coa-
stitute its true value: they magnify it by preserving the simple and in-
voluntary impress of men and circumstances, and by connecting ii
together with all the writings of the rising school. with monuments of
an older date, and with the general state of the region and of the
times."

Our last view of Jerusalem was very ﬁne. We looked back from I
ridge on the Nablous (the northern) road. and saw it lying, bright and
stately, on its everlasting hills: but it looked lower than from most
other ‘points of View, from the Moab mountains forming its lofty back-
groun . We descended the slope before us. and lost sight of the Holy
City for ever. .

Again we were struck with the vivid coloring of the scenery. All
this day, the hills were dressed in brilliant hues ;-—the soil. red, gray-
and brown ; the tilled portions of the brightest green ; and the shadow!
purple or lilac. All the hills show traces of having been once 121"
raced: and they were still completely so in the neighborhood of 0'"
encampment this evening,—the terraces following the strata of the
alone. which all lay slanting. This gives a. singular air of wildntws
to the most cultivated spots. Here and there were basins among 1h?
hills. full of corn, or with their red soil dropped all over with ﬁg and
olive trees : and the upland lraelts wound among slopes all strewn with
cistus, iris, cyclamen and memories. and bristling with tall ﬂowering
hollyhocks. In the hollows were deep old wells, or stone cistemsv
where the cattle were crowding to drink. A few camels were brow!-
ing, here and there. in the dells : and we met several groups of Arab!

' “Jesus Christ et sa Doctrine," I. 152, [53.
Page-447
wanton soartnv. 445 I

with their asses, carrying corn to the city. The stone villages on the
heights were striking, as we found them everywhere in Palestine.
Beer. ten miles from Jerusalem. was on a hill to the right. Travelers‘
usually stop there, the ﬁrst night after leaving the city: but we in-
tended to pmceed to Einbroot: and when we reached Einbroot, we
were disposed to go further. We had not left Jerusalem till near
noon ; and the afternoon and evening were charming. We were once
more alone too,—our party of four, with servants; and the saving of
fatigue by the smallness of our number was great. We expected to
meet the rest of the caravan at Nazareth. or at least at Damascus ; and
meantime, it was more convenient, from the character of the country,
to travel in smaller parties. An accident retarded the largest party, so
that we had left Nazareth before they arrived; and we saw no more
of our Desert comrades, except of two of the gentleman, who were at
Damascus when we arrived.

Einbroot is beautiful on its hill. with its richly tilled slopes and val-
leys undulating all about it. and its olive trees casting their long even-
ing shadows on the red soil. The road was very narrow and stony,
between terraces of corn and groves of olive. Just passtinbroot, we
descended into a hollow, and then rose again, and came out upon a
green waste place, where the cattle were drinking at an old-fashioned
well. Then we entered a cultivated valley, where a promontory of
the richest green, lustrous in the last rays of the sun, crossed our path.
Winding round it, we entered the shadow, and watched the sunshine
withdrawing from the heights. The valley narrowed to a ravine ;~ and
there were holes, like tombs, high up in the rocks on either hand. The
wild-ﬂowers madela garden of this glen; and I saw, for the ﬁrst time.
a honeysuckle in full blossom, climbing the rock to a at height.

Where this ravine narrowed to a pass, we observe the remains of
a very substantial building. which looked like a fort. It was on our
left hand ; and just beyond it, sunk in a platform of rock. under a pre-
cipice garlanded with ferns. was one of the beautiful old pools of the
country. It was now 6 r. 11., and we were glad to ﬁnd that we were
to encamp beside the pool. on the platform under the precipice. I
hastened back on foot to the honeysuckle, and brought home a charm;-
ing handful of ﬂowers.

While we were at dinner, a sound of scuﬁling was heard outside: and
when Alee next entered. he was out of breath. We afterwards heard
the whole story; and we were amused to ﬁnd how zealous our Mo-
hammedan servants could be in the cause of " Christian inﬁdels."
Some Arabs, with their loaded mules, had come with the intention of
encamping beside the pool: and, on ﬁnding the ground partly occu-
pied, though there was plenty of room left, they became abusive. and
wondered aloud what business these damned Christians had in their
country. Alec resented thisrand threw the speaker down over the
tent-ropes. There was then a sharp scufﬂe; and the cook coming to
help. and the Arabs falling one'upon another over the tent-pegs in the
dark, they had the worst of it, and went at? vowing vengeance. We
heard no more of them, however.
Page-448
446 lunar: urn.

Our destination the next day (Tuesday. April 15th) was the very
ancient city of Shechem or Sychar, now Nablous. The cistus literally
strewed the ground to-day; and the hollyhocks. of pale and deep lilac.
and of red, grew ﬁnely. There was yellow jessamine slam—Fm
an elevation of the rocky hills, we caught a peep of the blue Meditce
ranean,—for the ﬁrst time since leaving Alexandria.

We learned to-day what is meant when people speak of the math
in Palestine. The nearest resemblance to our English idea of a road
is where a narrow lane, heaped with stones, runs between two walls.
Elsewhere, there is a just practicable passage over shelves of rock.
with a bit of irregular staircase at each end, to get up and down by-
The pleasantest track is that which runs through olive groves. and
along ﬁelds. and across a green plain: and with all their inequalitiesJ
believe these paths are much less fatiguing than a broad, regular, dusty
road would be. The wildness and apparent privacy have a charm
which compensates for some difﬁculty.

We pursued today the long and fertile Hawarrah Valley, when
the crops were rich for miles together, and villages were thickly planted
on the eminences. Still, though we saw many settlements. we were
persuaded that there must be more out of sight,—so vast did the pro-
duce appear in comparison with the population. We were alwayl
wondering what became of the immense quantity of wheat and barley
we saw growing.—to say nothing of the fruit. And this, in a country
which we had imagined, from the accounts of travelers, to be a 3pm“
tacle to mankind. for desertiou and barrenness! Travelers have told
what they saw, no doubt; but they went. for the most part, at adiﬂ'erenl
season. I imagine that we saw Palestine in its very best aspect; Ind
many travelers have happened to be there in the intervals between the
three crops of the year, when the stony, uncovered soil must, indeed.
look parched and dreary. In this month of April, it was green, fresh.
and ﬂowery; and we asked one another repeatedly whether every
mile of the land was not beautiful. I found it full of charms. from
end to end.

As we proceeded today, the ground rose in a succession of table‘
lands. of which there was a series of three in leaving the Hawamfh
Valley. We now began to observe the walnut and the mulberry In
the orchards, and a general growing richness as we approached “the
parcel of ground that Jacob bought,” opposite the opening of the valley
of Sychar.

At the north-east corner of the Gerizim range, the road parts 05;"
one branch ascending the mountain, and the other winding round It!
base. I was riding on before; and seeing the baggage-mules beginninl
to ascend, and having a sign from the dragoman to proceed. I took the
upper road; but my companions pursued the lower. which led them
more directly to the great object of this day’s travel.—Jacob's Well-
I was fortunate in taking the upper road, for it aﬂ'orded me a ﬁne view
of the whole scene at once: and it was not difﬁcult to get down to my
party afterwards. When I had passed the shoulder of the mountains
the valley of Sychar lay below me, rich with groves and gardens, IIIti
Page-449
ucos's WILL. 447

with the old sepulchres of Mount Ebal yawning in the face of the
opposite precipices. At the upper end, to my left, lay the bright town,
nestling in the valley, and extending completely across it,——even
stretching -a little way up the slopes of Gerizim. T 0 my right, the
valley opened out into the green plain,—Jacob's “ parcel of ground,”
where a small village lay at the foot of Ebal, and «a white Sheikh's
tomb rose amidst the green. Another little plain joined on upon
Jacob's possession; and it was bounded by a perfect semicircle of
hills. Below me, to the right, lay some small clusters of ruins, where
I saw my companions dismount, and where l'soon joined them.

The clusters of ruins below, consisted of a mill, with a, channel for
water, two deep shafts in the roof, and a chamber below :-and. near
at hand. of the remains of a church, which was built very early in the
Christian era. to honor the spot. Four granite pillars are visible:
The well itself might easily be passed by unnoticed. Its mouth looks
like a mere heap of stones: but several travelers who have descended
into it,—Maundrell for one,—describe it so as to leave no doubt that
all parties,—Jews, Samaritans, Christians, and Mohammedans.—who
agree that this is the true old Jacob’s well, are right. Maundrell found
15 feet of water at a depth of 105 feet (inclusive). Moreover, there
is no other well in the neighborhood, except one high up on Mount
Gerizim. There are many fountains in the valley of Sychar. which
one traveler or another has carelessly taken for wells; so that the de-
scriptions of Jacob’s Well are very various. Certainly, the clear foun-
tains and spreading reservoirs in the valley are more tempting to the
imagination, and soothing to the eye of the tired traveler than this hole,
where no water is to be seen; but there can be no question of this
being the spot on which the narrative’ represents Jesus as sitting to
rest, and asking water of the Samaritan woman. As for the common
objection, that this well is nearly a mile and a half from the city, and
that the woman would not have come so far for water when she must
have been able to obtain it at many nearer places, I see nothing in it,
as the narrative does not mention that the woman came out of the city.
She is not called a woman of Sychar, but a woman of Samaria;—a
country-woman, probably, living near the well. When she wished
to call witnesses, to come and hear the words of the way-farer, she
naturally went into the city; but there is no mention of her being an
inhabitant of it.

Jesus had not intended to enter the town, it is clear. He was
waiting here while his disciples went up the valley. to buy food in the
town; and then they would have followed the road through the plain
to Samaria. There was no inducement to any Jew to enter any
Samaritan city, if he could avoid it. But when the tow‘nsmen came
out to him, and showed an open-minded interest in hearing of the
Messiah, and of its having become lawful in the mind of a Jew, to
worship elsewhere than in the Temple, Jesus entered the city, and
abode there two days.‘l—-No scene of these ancient incidents is more

’ John IV. 1' John W. 40.
Page-450
440 Ismail Lin.

clear and interesting than this. It is impossible not to see his very
gestures when he spoke of“ this mountain,"—the Gerisim which rose
above him.—and when he bade his hearers lift up their eyes. and look
on the ﬁelds.——already “ white unto the harvest ;"-—the tilled lands of
Jacob's plain which stretched before him. The simplicity of the contro-
versy, in the woman’s statementof it. and appeal to the authority of fort!~
fathers; and the Teacher's assertion of the superiority of Jew ish worship.
—“ye worship ye know not what; we know what we worship:"—
the naturalness of this is so exquisite as to give on the spot the impres-
sion of randomness; and to make one feel more like an actual spectator
of the incident than I had ever yet felt, in any of the sacred localities.—
No part of the narrative is, to my mind, more striking than the offer
of hospitality,—the invitation to Jesus to stay in the city. The smart
point of the controversy being this temple on Gerizim,—tbe Jen
abhorring it, and the Samaritans feeling the hardship of their forefatherl
having been excluded from the Jerusalem Temple,—how the new!
must have run through Sychar that a teacher had come from Jeru-
salem itself, who said that men might worship any and everywhere!
Here was an opening for peace making, and for something highet
still; for exalting and spiritualizing the religious conceptions of earnest
and anxious inquirers. Here were “ friendly dealings," indeed, between
Jews and Samaritans; and in the higher party, that loving care which
made him ever vigilant over the perplexed and wandering. to bring
them home, that there might be “ one fold and one Shepherd."

Our ride up the valley. as far as the town, was delightful. The
fountains, and ﬁelds and orchards make a perfect garden of the place;
and the people were standing or sitting under the shade of the tree!-
The sepulchres in the rock reminded us of old days; and so did the
mountains, to the right hand and the left. The difference in the aspect
of Ebal and Gerisim is less marked than we had been led by books to
suppose; and it was some time before I felt sure that Gerizim wast0|
the whole, more fertile than Ebsl.—.loshua could not have chosen I
nobler spot for the solemn ceremony of instructing the people in the
threatening and promises of the Law.’ He placed six of the tribe! l‘
the foot of the one mountain, and six at the foot of the other; and
caused to be proclaimed to the people those noble and awful blessingI
and curses which were long afterwards recorded at length in the
of Deuteronomy.l’

It was all very pleasant riding up the valley; but now we had W
enter the town. and even to pass along its whole length. I have met?
tioned that in Egypt I found this process very disagreeable. Here, '1
was worse than in any place, before or after. To make part of III
equestrian troop, (looking only too like Betty’s troop at home;) to
pace as slowly as possible, one by one, through the ill-paved. narro'
bazaars, where one's horse starts or shies at a blacksmith’s ﬁre 0”
fluttering curtain ;—snd to feel conscious all the while of a dress which
is thought odious, and which was always dusty at the close of a day’I

’ Joshua VIII. 33. 'f Deuteronomy XXVIL XXV'HL
Page-451
a

muons. 449

travel;-—all this was disagreeable enough: but at Nablous, there are
other de’sagrémms. The bigotry of the people is so great that till of
late years, no Christian was permitted to set foot within the gates.
Ibraheem Pasha punished the place severely, and made the people so
desperately afraid of him that they observe his commands pretty much
as if he had power in Syria still. One of his commands was that
Christians should not be ill-treated; so we entered Nablous, and rode
through it to our encampment on the other side. During our passage,
I had three slaps in the face from millet stalks and other things thrown
at me: and whichever way we looked, the people were grinning,
thrusting out their ton es,.and pretending to spit. My party blamed
me for feeling this, an said things which were undeniably true about
the ignorance of the people, and the contempt we should feel for such
evidences of it. But, true as all this was, I did not grow reconciled to
being hated and insulted; and I continue to this day to think the lia-
bility to it the great drawback of Eastern travel.

The town is large,—the bazaars handsome,—-and the women becom-
ingly dressed in cream-colored mantles or veils, bordered with red.
Just outside the further gate, there were lepers again,—a forlorn com-
pany ranged under the trees, holding out their poor maimed hands for
charity.—Our tents were pitched on a grassy,‘weedy plot, sprinkled
over with fruit trees, and with springs and gardens all about; and, of
course, with the pair of mountains still rising on either hand. Ebal
exhibited a large prickly-pear garden; and Gerizim a ﬁne face of orange
rocks, ﬁssured with dark clefts, and fringed with brushwood.

After dinner, we were eager to be walking. We wanted to obtain a
view of the town from above it; and I had some little hope that before
we returned we might have learned something of the few remaining
Samaritans: and perhaps have seen them and their precious MS.
Every one knows that this MS., though not 3,500 years old, as the
Samaritans pretend, is yet a very valuable copy of the Pentateuch. It
is interesting, from its value in the eyes of scholars, and from its being
a ﬁne specimen of Samaritan text:‘ and no less from the ﬁrm faith
with which the Samaritans regard it as an antique of 3,500 years old.

We ascended the slope on our left,—that of Gerizim,—passed the
Mohammedan cemeter , and attained a point whence we had a noble
view, in the last sunlig t, of this beautiful city. It could hardly have
looked more beautiful when it was the capital of Samaria. Its houses,
with their ﬂat white roofs, are hedged in by the groves which surround
the town: vines spread from roof to roof, and from court to court:
four palm trees spring up in the midst; and higher aloft still. a graceful
minaret here and there.

Here we were told,to my delight, that we might see the Samaritans
and their synagogue. We were led down into the town, and along
some low arched passages, and across a small court, to the synagogue.
There the Samaritans dro ed in, to greet us; and we saw almost all
of the sect in the place. t was not very easy to communicate freely

' See p. 95.
29
Page-452
456 ass-rant Lira.

with them. Our dragoman did his best to interpret: but heale-
hammedan, was not very clear about the distinctions between Jess.
Samaritans and Christians: and we are not very sure of the information
obtained through him. We thought these Samaritans good-looking
people. and all the better looking for the high, helmet-like. antique
turban that they wore. They said their number was sixty at Nubian.
and forty elsewhere ;—only a hundred in the whole world. This they
declared over and over again. They said—what we could hardly
credit—that their chief priest was not here. but at Genoa—with the
remnant of their sect. They keep their great feasts,—three in the
yesr,—as punctually as the Jews ; going up to Gerizim as the Jews used
to go up to the Temple; and reading the Law from sunrise till noon-

The Synagogue is a small, ordinary-lookin chapel, within am»
tained recess of which is kept the old copy of t e Pentateuch. ltlras
shown to us. after some entreaty on our part. I petitioned to heal-
lowed to touch it, “ out of respect :" but the priest said that even he
must wash and put on new clothes before he could touch it: as“
observed, indeed. how carefully he held it by the ends of the rolls“.
within which it is furled, like the copies of the Law in Jewish sym-
gogues. He never for a moment ceased his care not to touch the Wi-
lum. The text is clear, small and even ;—the lines continuousaml
not broken into words. The ancient vellum is much tattered. 0‘
course; but it is carefully mounted on stout parchment. It was I
striking scene—this remnant of the ancient sect, collected in their littlt
synagogue, and seen by the light of two dim candles. They gave M
every opportunity of observing their countenances, and in a good light:
for they were so struck with my trumpet that they crowded round me.
with the candles, wherever I moved: and, if they were too much en-
grossed with this novelty to attend sufﬁciently to our questions, M
at least gave me every facility for noting their picturesque and came!“
faces. There was something shocking, too, in their eagerness aboul ll
ear-trumpet, when we were full of their ancient history as Samaritan!-

It was now dark: and we were lighted through the archway!»
down the hill on our way home, by a single candle, which but'ned
steadily in the still air. I bathed in the spring which bubbled up 0‘“
of the ground. among the gardens near our encampment: and after“
we read aloud the 4th chapter of John, and the history of the Judd
and Samaritan controversy. that our memories might not he treacherwl
on the spot. While we were thus reading in our tout, the jsckal 78'
in full cry on the slopes of Gerizim. _

We went up the hill again, th'e next morning, to see the city lying
in its valley.'and admire the picturesque Nablous people sitting and
walking in their cemetery ; and it was past seven before we mounted-
Nothing can be more cheerful than the valley beyond Nablous. The
fountains are innumerable. Every few minutes we were pm“!
brimming cisterns, bubbling springs, and shining brooks ; and straw
lets came down from the hills to the right hand and the left.
course, the valley is fertile. and to-day, the reapers were busy amonl
the barley all along the valley; and the waving crops on the upland!
Page-453
steam. 461

were nearly ready for the sickle. The hills, a continuation of Ebal
and Gerizim, are more thickly peopled than in any district we had yet
passed through—the villages being in sight of one another, from height
to height, all the way. We had passed a picturesque old aqueduct,
which communicated with a modern mill; and we knew that the next
was to be our signal to turn up the hills to the right, to ﬁnd Sebaste,
the ancient Samaria. The baggage-train was to proceed along the di-
rect road to Djeneen, our resting-place for the night. Our party, when
we began crossing the hills, was thus a small one, and two were la-
dies; and the inhabitants of Sebaste have the reputation of being rude
and rapacious towards all strangers but those who are imposing from
their arms and their numbers. ‘ But we met with no direct incivility.
From the eminence ‘we ascended on coming to the second aqueduct,
the ﬁnest possible view is obtained of the site of the ancient Samaria:
and a ﬁner site no city, ancient or modern, ever had. The surround-
ing hills make a basin of about six miles in diameter. They are of
considerable height, so that they might almost be called mountains;
but there are openings between them which cause a suﬁcient circula-
tion of air to ventilate the interior of this rampart. Nearly in the midst
of this basin rises an oblong, swelling hill—not so lofty as those which
surround it, but high enough to be breezy and sunny. Old Samaria
covered this hill, and stretched down round its skirts. The great Baal
temple, and the palaces of his priests. and of Ahab and Jezebel, and
the groves of Ashtaroth, then crowned this hill, and adorned its slopes;
and the well-watered valleys on every side were rich with gardens,
and orchards and fertile ﬁelds. while the Opposite uplands were clothed
with ﬂocks. Over the ridge of one of these hills, came the ﬁerce Jehu
from Jezreel, where he had seen Jezebel destroyed. He came to
ascertain that all the descendants of Ahab had been put out of the way,
according to his command; and when he had furthermore slain all the
princes of Judah. here it was that he ordered that great feast of Baal,
when these valleys echoed with music, and the sacriﬁces were led with
rejoicing up the central hill to the great temple. There, from within
that temple, were heard the shrieks of the slaughtered priests and wor-
shipers; and thither, when none were left alive of all who had fol-
lowed Baal, came Jehu himself, with his ofﬁcers and attendants, to
break the images of the god, and unroof the temple, and claim glory
from the prophets of Jehovah for having thus vindicated his name.
Such was the place at one time: and now, how changed and still it
lies! Where the dwellings of the city rose in tiers, up the hill sides,
there are now terraces of waving barley, and lines of olive-trees.
Where the priests trod the marble pavements of the Temple of the
Sun, the night-hawk broods over her eggs among the stones. The
yellow nettle grows, almost like a shrub, where garlands for the sacri-
ﬁce were gathered, and the white convolvulus and dog-rose run riot
over the foundation-stones of the ancient palaces.

But other powers have been here since the days of Ahab and John,
and the vengeful prophets of Israel. Herod rebuilt and fortiﬁed Sams-
ria, and called it Saba-to, in honor of Augustus (Sebastus) Caesar. Jo-

r
Page-454
452 ass-rams ma.

sephus tells of the citadel of Sebaate. and of the noble palaces and
colonnades of Herod’s building: and there are remains enough to tell
the story for themselves. Shafts of granite pillars stand in the ﬁeld.
and in long rows on the hill~side. Mutilated capitals are laid don
among the villa pavement: and broken shafts are built into the wall!
of the vineyard: Judging by these remains, the architecture must
have been of a mean order; and I certainly felt disposed on the spot
to overlook Herod and his Roman friends, and to go back in memory
to the short-lived and turbulent kingdom of Israel, when the planetary
faith of the East and the Monotheism of the Hebrews here carried on
their most desperate conﬂict. and when it was high-day with the p0"
of the prophets. It may be doubted whether any heathenism with
which the world was ever aﬂlicled was administered with so ﬁerce!
vindictiveness and cruelty as the Prophets of Jehovah cherished and
boasted of in this place. Here, however—into this valley from wheat!
Elisha sent his fatal message to John—came One afterwards who sent
a very different message abroad among men; that they should become
children of a Father who makes his sun rise on the evil and the good.
and sends his rain upon the just and the unjust. I could not but look
upon the dewy wild ﬂowers as having sprungu in his footstepa
where otherwise all would have been barren and t‘lleary—l'aid utterly
waste by the destructive passions of men. There is a compar-atr't‘el,Y
modern monument here. which looks strangely on such a span—1
half-ruined Gothic cathedral upon the hill of Samaria ! It is believed
to be the work of the Empress Helena, who, crediting whatever she
was told, supposed she had found the dungeon in which the Baptiﬁ
was beheaded. Part of the walls of this cathedral look like any hand-
some modem church: and its position is very ﬁne, when looked back
upon from the valley, or from the opposite hill-side.

We appeared a most ﬂowery party as we rode away from Sebam-
Below the village, in a nook of moist ground, the large blue iris 5!"
in profusion; and our guide Giuseppe, our buﬂ'oon for the time. pre
sented us with handfuls of them. He was riding a very small ass. 50
largely (though not heavily) laden, that his legs stuck out horizontally
over his baggage as he rode. He had stuck bunches of iris wherever
he could insert them about his ass, carried a large bunch in each
hand, and had feathered his hat all round with the nodding ﬂowers;
so that he was as fantastic an ovum-courier as could be seem—The
slopes were now all yellow with marigolds, and the ground covetetI
with scabius. white convolvulus, yellow nettles, hollyhocks and wild
artichokes. We had entered the plain of Sharon, in the midst of
which stands Ssnnoor on its ﬂowery hill. Here we were carried on
to crusading times; for here the crusaders built a stout fort, by which
they commanded the neighboring region.

A little further on, and about three hours from Djeneen, we overtot)k
our baggage train: and for those three hours, we had a constant 8110’
cession 0 beautiful views. When we left the lain of Sharon,"
entered a little grassy valley, where a round, wee y old well occurred
here and there; and camels were feeding, and we met Arabs with
Page-455
NINIIN. _ 4158

their donkeys, and women carrying loads of wood. Twice we caught
glimpses, through breaks in the hills, of the plain of Esdraélon or

ezreel, which we were to cross to-morrow: and beautiful it looked,
beyond the dark foreground of olive groves,—its rich levels stretching
far away in the afternoon sunshine to the blue Galilean hills which
bounded it to the north. By a steep and picturesque descent. we came
down upon Djeneen, which lies on the boundary between the hill
country and the plain of Jezreel.

The town itself is on the lowest slope of the hills; and a part of it
is impre ably fortiﬁed by a hedge of prickly pear. I was not aware
till this ay how impossible it is to do anything with such a fence. I
tried, as an experiment, to pass through a gap; and when I had sue-
ceeded in getting two steps back again, out of the clutches of the
malicious plant, I was persuaded that no artiﬁcial chevaua: defrt'se can
surpass it.—We encamped on a piece of waste ground between the
town and the cemetery, and were desired not to stray, nor to leave
about any article of property whatever. It is a poor town, with only
about eight hundred inhabitants, who have as bad a reputation as if
they lived on the Jericho road. While the tents were putting up,I
happened to be sitting beside a pile of saddles and pistols; and Alee
asked me not to leave the spot without calling him to mount guard. as
the Djeneen people pounce upon everything that is left unwatched for
a moment. I could not keep awake, after having been eight hours in
the saddle, and made a pillow of the property beside me.

When I awoke, I found that some visitors had been taking pipes and
coffee in the gentleman's tent: the Governor of Djeneen, and a majes-
tic-looking homicide ;—a man of the name of Abderrahman, who arrived
at home, one day of the preceding year, with a man’s head hanging
from his saddle. It was not too late now for me to see these gentry;
but I was not disposed. The Governor made a great show of interest
about our being well guarded : and promised to send four guards who
might be entirely relied on. The horses and mules were collected and
pegged down early, and all made as secure as the bad character of the
neighborhood seemed to require. I walked out in the evening in the
dark, when the muezzin was calling to prayer from the minaret of the
town, and when all was still except when a prowling dog, or a curious
townsman, stole throu h the grass or the tombs near, to walk round
our camp. I kept wit in call of our people; but yet I saw a good
deal of the ways of the people about, dim as the sky was, and late
the hour. I never made the effort to conquer my fatigue and go out,
without being glad that I had done so. I always learned something,
or saw something that I was glad to remember. If nothing else, there
was always the camp; and a few new faces. to add to my interior
portrait gallery.

In the morning, our best mule was gone. The four guards appeared
quite as much surprised as anybody else. and could not account for its
being released from its pegs before their eyes, and detached from the
line, and carried elf, without any one of the four perceiving the theft.
Alec frankly told us his opinion. He believed that the Governor knew
Page-456
4M ass-rant ms.

very well where the mule was; that he would come, and condole. sad
oﬂ'er his services, and recommend that one of our mulcteerl should
be left behind :—that in a day or two, the beast would be declared
found upon the mountain, having simply strayed; and that a sum of
money would be asked for the trouble of ﬁnding it,—while it was. so
doubt, all the while safe enough in a stable in the town. Suehrm
Alee’s view of the case, as an experienced man.

Presently the Governor came. and looked very solemn over his cof-
fee: and his advice was that a muleteer should be left behind—to meet
us at Nazareth, after our excursion to Mount Carmel. This business
delayed our departure, so that I had time to see something of this re-
spectable Djeneen. The respectable homicide appropriately offered
his services as escort to two of us who were disposed to walk; and
nothing could be more courteous than his behaviour. We were told
that he had a very good case: that there was an old blood feud between
his family and that of his victim, and that he had received excessive
provocation. He was a ﬁne-looking personage—not only tall and
digniﬁed. but with an open and gentle expression of countenance.
Under his guidance, we saw the outside of the Governor’s house, the
café to which the smokers and news-mongers repair ;—(this day. to
talk over our mule, no doubt ;)—-a poor. half-empty bazaar, and I
mosque which had four marble Corinthian pillars before it. We rem
through an orange grove, which was in full blossom. Hitherto. I had
seen nothing like it. Abderrahman gave us noble bunches of the blos-
soms, which we kept fresh for some days.

A large, ruined building, like a fort, crowned an eminence near our
camp: and from this I saw something which I should not have dreamed
of looking for. I saw snow on a mountain peak to the north-east
This mountain was Djebel Sheikh, the last peak of the Antilibamﬂ
range, and that which closes in the valley of the Jordan to the north.

We gotto horse before ten o’clock—riot yet out of Samaria. bl“
rejoicing that our next rest was to be among the hills of Galilee.

 

CHAPTER VII.

PLAIN OF ESDRAELON.—NAZARETH.—-RIDE T0 MOUNT CARMEL-
CONVENT OF MOUNT CARMEL—ACRE—RETURN T0 NAZARETH-

Tm Plain of Esdraiilon is as lovely in itself as it is interesting from
its associations. It extends in great vastness before the eye: but there
is no part, if I remember rightly, which is not visibly enclosed by hills.
Immediately behind us, to the south. rose the hills of Samaria which
we had just crossed. To the south-east, the plain extended back (01'
a. considerable distance behind Djeneen, there supporting the Gillan
range, where Saul and Jonathan laid down their lives together. Thll
cluster of hills was the spot where the mighty had fallen, when David
lamented in one strain the father and the son, his inveterate persecuwl
Page-457
momma, 455

and his most beloved friend. In the plain. near the northern end of this
Gilhoa range. was Jezreel. where Ahab built for his sun-worshiping
queen, her famous palace.-—from a window of which she asked Jehu
the fatal question,-—“ Had Zimri peace who slew his mastert”—and
from which window she was thrown down. at the command of the sav-
is‘ge con ueror.--Further along the eastern side of the plain. rises Little

ount ormon. which we had on our right for some hours this morning:
and on one of its northern spurs lie the remains of the vil e of Nain.
Here again. we might turn away from the bloody deeds an vindictive
spirits of the earlier periods. to repose on the spiritual calm, and enjoy
the benevolent acts of him who “ came not to destroy men’s lives. but
to save them." How neart ether are the two scenes which so strongly
exhibit the differing spirit 0 the two dispensations'. Jehu. coming at
the call of Elisha. was met by the son of the widowed Jezebel as he
was approaching her palace; and he shot the prince through the heart,
and then advancing. instead of attempting to console the widowed and
mourning mother. he commanded her murder, by a cruel and contemp«
tuous death. This was the pupil of the Prophet Elisha. Very near
to this spot, a Widowed mother appears in the history of a later time.
following the bier of her only son: and one arrived who restored her
son to her. after having spoken words of cheer. Here was the spirit
of the new dis ensation l—A little further on is Endor, where the rest-
less and appre ensive Saul came to learn his fate and that of his house,
b means of those arts of Divination which he had declared punish-
able by death.—A little further on still, is Mount Tabor, traditionally
the Mount of Transﬁguration—Far beyond these ranges.and towering
over everything intermediate, rises that peak of Djebel Sheikh which
I have mentioned. from whose base ﬂow the ﬁrst streams of the Jordan.
Alon the north end of the plain run the Galilean hills. in which Naza-
reth ies embosomed: and where they retreat to the nonhwest. the
expansion of the plain in that direction nearly roaches Carmel: and
through it runs the Kishon. whose overﬂow swept owe the forces of
Sisera. and whose stream was deﬁled with the blood 0 four hundred
and ﬁfty of the prophets of Baal, slain at the command of Elijah.

Then. approaching us from that north-west point. comes the range
of Carmel, its ilex woods becoming distinguishable on its nearer slopes.
These western hills. without intermitting, decline into the lower ranges
as they reach the south-west of the plain, and there become mingled
with the hills of Samaria.—Nowhere in the Holy Land did we see any
district so various in its historical interests as this: and. indeed. there
is no other so marked. To the eye of the historical and religious
philosopher, the dead rise here. to give account of the life of the He-
‘brewnation. from their ﬁrst entrance upon the land to their expulsion
rom it.

First comes the ghostly array of the tribes following Joshua. Some
of them had had their portions assigned on the eastern side of Jordan.
but had obeyed Joshua’s command to defer their settlement there till
the enemy should be everywhere subdued, and the tribes be secure of
Page-458
456 MIN ma.

their respective portions.’ Here they came on from the Jordan: and

were halted while this fertile and beautiful plain wasapportionedtotht

tribe of Issachar :—-Issachar who, according, to the blessing in Deutero-

Eomy, was to “rejoice in his tents."f and here had abundant reason tn
oso.

Then, when Joshua and all that host whom he led had passed on
through the Valley of the shadow of death, new generations were busy
on their traces. A Kenite woman belongingto a neutral tribe,atpel!
with both the Canaanites and the Hebrews. was at her tent door her!
one day, listening as she watched her ﬂoclr, for the far sounds of battle:
for the great Canaanitish general had collected his iron chariots Ind
ranged his troops; and Barak, the Hebrew leader, rushed down ll"
side of Mount Tabor, to meet Sisera in the plaiu¢ The shock of {ﬁt
was ﬁerce, and the swollen river carried at? many of the Canaamtn
whom the battle had spared. As the Kenite woman, Jael, was an"
that the strife was over, while the evening stillness was settling do"
upon the plain, a fugitive. weary, heated and thirsty, came by. 5h?
invited him in, probably in the sincere s irit of the ordinary Eastern
hospitality, which makes the tent of the ost the sanctuary of the 6*
—she gave him milk, and laid him down to rest. And then, wh‘ l!
slept heavily, occurred the tempting thought,the devilish suggestion.“f
the favor she might secure from the conquering party, if she delivered
the commander of the foe dead into their hands: and here she murdem‘I
him. That black deed comes up to judgment in this fair scene, likel
poisonous exhalation from the verdant ground.

Next comes a figure,“taller than any others of the people byllle
shoulders and u pwards,”—-a man mufﬂed and disguised. with two fol-
lowers at his heels. stealing over the plain in the night. to the dwelling
of the seeress of Endor.§ And through the darknessappeared thesheewd
ghost,—the “ old man with a mantle,” whom Saul dared not loolt up“.'1
even while pouring out his complaints, and questioning Samuel of his
doom. His restless spiritf—"sore distressed,” as he declared—tm
soothed by no deception or equivocal words :-—“ to-morrow shalt tho“
and thy sons be with me," was the warning of the spirit—And
next day,—no further 03 than these heights of Gilboa,—Saul‘W"5
sore wounded of the archers," and, when his armor-bearer would 00'
dispatch him before the foe came up. he fell upon his own 310"!-
Here, among these green slopes, “ Saul died, and his three sons, ﬁnd
his armor-bearer. and all his men, that same day together.“ And 1115
armor was hung up in the temple of Astarte. in the nearest town “POn
the plain. " How were the mighty fallen, and the Weapons of Wu
perished !"II .

Long after, a stern prophet might he often seen going to and fro In
various directions over this plain. “ What manner of man was he i"
asked King Ahaziah. “ And they answered him, He was a hairy
man, and girt with a girdle of leather about his loins. And he said,

' Joshua I. 12—15. 1' Deuteronomy XXIII. 18.

I Judges IV. 14—22. § Samuel XXVI”. 8—25,
I 2 Mud I. 27.
Page-459
nsnuscon. 45‘1-

It is Elijah the Tishbite.” Yew—Elijah often passed over this Es-
draélon ;—sometimes to Damascus; sometimes to Mount Camel, and
along the course of the Kishon: and once he came upon the news that
the king and queen, Ahab and Jezebel, had enlarged the grounds of
their new palace at Jezreel, here at hand, by taking possession of a
vineyard which they had coveted, and procured at length by false
accusation and murder. We cannot tell which of the ﬁelds now
spreading about the village once called Jezreel was Naboth’s vineyard;
but in surveying the scene, the eye cannot miss it, though it cannot
identify it. .

Here, soon after, came another general, driving in his chariot over
the plain. He was a great man. fortunate in every thin but health:
but what was all his prosperity to him while he was a eperl How
earnest was his desire for relief is shown by his taking the word of
“a little maid” of his wife‘s, a Hebrew girl, and coming all the way
from Damascus to Samaria, in hope of care. And when he had found
his cure in Jordan, and had returned to Samaria to give thanks to
Elisha, he was passing home to Damascus a in, over this plain, when
Gehazi overtook him. and obtained a gift y fraud. It might have
been somewhere within sight that the Syrian general “ lighted down
out of his chariot" to meet the prophet’s servant. -

If Gehazi did here a mean and fraudulent act, his master soon com-
mitted a deed of recklessness and vindictive cruelty for which no re-
probatiou can be too strong. He sent by this way a young prophet,
in search of Jehu, with a message. as from Jehovah, the object of which
was to avenge the wrongs of the prophets on the posterity of Ahab,
the patron of the priests of Baal. Hither came the young prophet,
with his loins girded, and the box of oil in his hand,1' with which he
was to anoint Jehu for his savage ofﬁce. And hither soon came Jehu,
breathing vengeance and slaughter, and murdered the oung king who
came out to meet him; and then the royal mother, at er own palace;
and then above a hundred of the royal race; and ﬁnally. the whole
multitude of the priests and worshipers of Baal. They are like an
amply of ghostly victims, hauntin the plain.

ere, in a later time, did the Egyptians destroy one whose life was
of inestimable importance, and whose death remains a mystery. The
Egyptian monarch Necho had no enmity against Josiah; and he told
him so. Necho was coming up against Damascus. and had no desire
to make enemies along his road : but Josiah, for some unknown reason,
attacked him on his way ;—possibly from fear of the Egyptian power,
if it should be established to the north-east, as well as the south-west
of his dominions. Here he came out against the Egyptians upon this
plain,—after witnessing the completion of the great work of elaborat-
ing and propounding the Law; and reestablishing the Passover: and
here “ the archers shot at king Josiah; and the king said to his ser-

vants, Have me away; for I am sore wounded"; And they took him
to Jerusalem, where he died.

' 2 Kings,1. 8. 1’ 2 Kings, Di. 1. 1 2 Chron. XXXV. 23.
Page-460
458 usual urn.

And at last. after the march of more armies on errands of destruc-
tion, how sweet is the calm which settles down upon this wide ﬁeld of
history when the Messengers of Peace come hither, char d with words
of wisdom and ofﬁces of mercy! When Jesus was on is way home-
wards from Jerusalem, “ he must needs pass through Samaria," and,
of course, over this plain. And we know that when he journeyed
southwards from the lake, accompanied by those who had left their
nets to follow him, he took his way by Nain. How one sees them. in
the fresh morning, coming onwards over the green tracks, and delayed
till the heat of noon by those who issued forth from the villages to
accost and petition the Teacher! What a multitude on the slopes of
Tabor! and further on, we think of the disciples of John coming to
know who. in truth, he was, and whether they were yet to look for
another.—One man afterwards traveled this road to Damascus, full of
hatred and murderous thoughts against these children of the kingdom
of peace; but he was soon disabused; and Paul returned an altered
mam—ready to pour out his own blood, but no more to shed that of
others. When the traveler contemplates this succession of events on
their march through this scene. from the restless spirits of the dark
early times to the blessed ministers of a later age. he sees “ the day-
spring from on high” touchin those Galilean hills, and brightening
the plain. and trusts that, dar as are the clouds that yet overshadow
that light, it shall “ increase more and more unto the perfect day.”

We were glad to find the scene so still and quiet now. The villages
were few. and all retired from our track. That tnck was green, and
perfectly level. The wild ﬂowers were profuse along the way: wild
artichokes made a sort of fence on either hand: and be and them was
long grass, where the tall cranes were wading; or ti led ﬁelds. over
which the quail was ﬂitting. and from which young partridgee ran out
under m horse’s feet. Butterﬂies and dragon-ﬂies glitter-ed in the sun,
and sma l birds ﬂuttered about us as if they had no fear of us. We saw
the outline of the villa e of Nain. standing up against the clear sky, on
the promontory of Litte Hermon, to our right hand. Mount Tabor
rose conspicuous from the plain; and we then believed that we should
look abroad from its summit. before many days were over; a hope
which was not fulﬁlled. A little beyond the middle of the plain. as
broad road crossed our track: and here, while waiting for directions
from behind which way to take, I saw a travelin partyr—with Iner-
chants and merchandize,—going north-eastwards a ong the broad road ;
—to Damascus, as I afterwards learned. This is the regular camel-
road from the coast to Damascus.

We were now in Galilee; and it was not long before we began to
ascend the hills which had looked so tempting from Djeneen. They
were very pretty now. when we were climbing up, and winding round
their stony passes. Their recesses were wooded. and goats were brows—
ing on their sides. One pass was very steep: then we came upon a
well: then we turned round the base of two or three eminences. rising
from this high table-land; and then suddenly found ourselves looking
down upon pretty Nazareth. Its modern name is Nasirah.
Page-461
tuzuwm. 460

No place in Palestine satisﬁed me more entirel than Nazareth. Much
as one's associations require, it is all there; andyone’s ﬁrst and constant
emotion here is of thankfuluess that Jesus was reared amidst such
natural beauty. Filteen hills congregate to form the basin in which
Nazareth lies ;—-a basin of fertility. high up among the hills,—not deep
enough for extreme heat, at. a breezy elevation,—-and abundantly
watered by springs in the rock, and streams from the surrounding
heights. The town lies at one end of this oblong depression; and
some of its buildings stretch a little way up a slope. Before the town,
lies a little green plain, where we longed to pitch our tents; but the
servants apprehended rain. and we were conducted to the Latin Con-
vent. The guest-chambers there had been taken possession of by the
ofﬁcers of the Harlequinr—the gentlemen we had met at the Consul's
at Jerusalem: but they insisted on giving them u to us. Our quar-
ters were so comfortable that we had no drawbac but the shame of
turning out our predecessors, who had had worse than no rest the night
before, after the strong exercise of riding over the hills in the way pe-
culiar to British sailors. Icould scarcely keep my saddle, the next day,
for laughing at the sight of the middies, spurring and tugging.—stoop-
ing to the very mane, and letting their ﬂaps ﬂy like a pair of wings.
The steeper the hill-side, the faster they must go; and the wilder and
more desperate they were, the more wretched looked their confounded
dra omen. They gave him no rest of body or mind. When I heard
lately that one of the party had boasted in his letters home that he had.
killed 06' three horses in that trip, I wondered whether they had al-
lowed themselves an equal proportion of dragomen. Their method of
riding, however. whatever we may otherwise think of it, certainly en-
hanced their merit in giving up their apartments to us,when they must
have so much needed rest.

The Latin Convent is the largest building in Nazareth; but it is not
disagreeably conspicuous.-—the other abodes being, however poorly in-
habited, substantially built. We went immediately to the Church of
the Convent,—the Church of the Annunciation. _

I cannot say what is the reason; but it certainly appears that a visit
to this church is something very different from attendance on other con-
vent worship in Palestine. One traveler after mothers—the man of the
world, the Protestant divine, the glib narrator, and the scientiﬁc histo-
rian,—-have testiﬁed without concert to the emotions excited by the
worship of this church. No doubt, the locality is supremely interest-
ing; but that would rather indispose me, for one, for a favorable im-
pression from any of the artiﬁcial features of the place. The church
is small and plain, compared with many others,though with handsome
hangings. and certainly quite enough of show. The earnestness of the
monks, and the beauty of the music have much to do with the impres-
sion. no doubt. The chanting is very ﬁne. It was certainly the best
music we heard while abroad. The spectacle was strange when the
choristers came down. and kneeled on the pavement beside me. and
uncovered their heads at the elevation of the Host ;--the marked Arab
Page-462
460 ass-rant urn.

face, and the head shaven, except the top-knot left for the angel of the
resurrection !

The ﬂoor rises towards thegrand altar, to accommodate the gram
below. These grottoes formed, the monks say, the lower part of the
house of Joseph and Mary. The upper part, the declare, took ﬂight
to avoid desecration from the Mohammedans, an soared through the
air to Loretta, resting for a time in Illyria by the wa . We were
obliged to visit the part which remains, which we did hy descending
the steps within the church. The nest of little caverns in the stiller-
ranean rock are devoutly shown as Mary’s kitchen, sitting-room and
chamber. Thus-far, one may smile at the childish superstition which
makes warm-hearted, ignorant persons gratify their imagination and
affections by consecrating localities such as these. But something fol-
lowa which one cannot regard so cheerfully. We were led to the spot
of the Annunciation, and shown the granite pillars which stand where
the angel Gabriel and Mary stood when she received the promise. To
persons well read in history, who are aware of the frequent recurrence
of this mythic story, in connection with the birth of conspicuous men.
there is nothing surprising in meeting with it here; and those whose
reading has not gone he and their Bible, cannot but be struck by the
identity of the history of t e birth of Ishmael, Isaac, Samuel, and espe-
cially Samson, with that of Iesus, as far as the annunciation of each to
the mother by an angel is concerned. But I had seen more. In
ancient Egyptian temples, we had encountered the same story thll
awaited us here. In Egypt, it was harmless and interesting to see
sculptured before our eyes, and explained by written legends, the ap-
pearance of Thoth, the heavenly messenger. to Tmanhemva, Queen of
Thothmes IV., to announce to her from the Supreme—from Amuu
Generator himself—that she should bear a son.‘ In Egypt. itwlS
harmless and interesting to trace the incarnations, which, understood {IS
we understand them now, give us at once the truths made known In
the Mysteries, and the form of allegory in which the priests presented
the concealed doctrine to the people. We do not revolt from the while
star on the forehead of Apia (the spot which marked the entrance 0f
the divine ray), nor from any other tokens of those incarnations which
abound in the old Eastern mythologies. They convey truths in the"
way; and the we was appropriate to the people and the time. B01
when, in a much ater age, the monotheistic Jews put aside the charac-
teristics of their faith, received the infection of allegorizing from their
heathen neighbors. and attached their allegories to the simple history
of their prophets, the process assumes a new character, and is likely to
be used to a most disastrous purpose. Philo allegorized about Jewish
personages and events, and Jewish scholars understood him. Origw
allegorized so as to do us no harm at this day; as his method WI?
avowed, and is suﬁciently understood by Christian scholars. But Ii
has been a great misfortune to the average Christian world for many
ages, that the old allegories of Egypt—the old images of miraculous

' Champollion, Lettres snr X‘Egypte. Palace ofAmeuuphis Memnon at El Uksurt
Page-463
cnuacn or ran mmcra‘rrox. 461

birth. and the annuncistion of it from heaven, should have been laid
hold of, and repeated from age to age, however the character of the
theology might change, till at last, repeated without explanation, it
came to be taken, with other mvthic stories, for historical truth. and is
to this day profanely and literally held by multitudes who should have
been trained to a truer reverence; and jested upon by multitudes more
who cannot be wondered at for looking no further into Christianity.
when they ﬁnd this old Egyptian and Hindoo allegory presented as a
historical fact at the very outset. Having stood before the sculpture of
the Annunciation at Thebes, and standing now between the pillars of
the Annunciation at Nazareth.I could not but feel how much less irre-
verence attached to the Egyptian doctrines. in their early age: and I
think no one can doubt what indignation would be expressed against
the blasphemous indecency of Egyptian superstition, if we knew that
they had presented to the people. as literal truth, such a story about the
birth of the most distinguished of Egyptian men as our poor and igno-
rant fellow-men are told in our Christian churches, through the mistake
of an ancient allegory for modern history. To the earnest and thought-
ful observer, it appears no wonder that Christianity has done so little to ,
raise and purify the nations in eighteen centuries, while even now so
much of mythological fable is permitted to encrust it, and while so
many tenets which would be called immoralities in any other connec-
tion—tenets which have found their way into Christianity as corrup-
tions, through - the self-will and vain ima inations of former men—are
now preserved as essential doctrines by t e ignorance and timid super-
stition of later generations. Till the religion taught by Jesus is purged
of its Egyptian, Greek,Assyrian and Pharisaic accretions and adultera-
tions. there can be little hope that its effects will answer to its romises,
and the mystery of its failure in regenerating the world w'l remain
what it now is.

In the church is hung, near the altar, what the monks call the por-
trait of Christ,—copied from an original likeness! They actually be-
lieve in this portrait- inting among the Jews at the time of Jesus!
However uncomfortab c it makes one, one cannot help looking at this
picture, when it is before one's eyes: and it is best to look; or there
can be no association of one's idea of him with it after that. It is meant
to represent the ordinary conception of his face; and it isnot so bad as
to be indecent: but the face is wooden, and the eyes are not quite strai ht.
The belief of these ignorant monks is evidently sincere; as it won] be
if a printing-press or a mail-coach were given to them, as being relics
of the same date.

They took us to Joseph’s workshop, where. as they szy, Jesus as-
sisted his father. It is now a small chapel, with a paltry tar. Next,
we were shown the house where. as the monks said. “Jesus gave a
supper to his friends, before and after his resurrection.” A rock starts
up out of the ﬂoor of this apartment, slanting, but so nearly round as
to resemble a table; and hence, no doubt, the origin of‘ the tradition.
This “Mensa Christi" appears to be valued above every other memo-
Page-464
462 ns'raas ma.

rial at Nazareth. The papal sanction‘ gave it this value in the eyes of
the Latin Christians: the Greeks esteem it no less: and the Arabs and
Turks come and prostrate themselvesr—apparently because other peo-
pie do,—w_ith as much zeal as if they also were to gain seven years‘
indulgence by their pilgrimage.

The next building we came to interested me more than any place
exhibited by the monks. in all Palestine. It was the only place in the
form of a building or habitation which it appeared reasonable or possi—
ble to believe in. It rofesses to be the synagogue where Christ ﬁrst
taught in his native p ace,-—of which the beautiful narrative is given
in Luke IV. No scene in his ministry had ever ﬁxed itself more dis-
tinctly in my outhful imagination than thin—his reading from the
scroll.—his de ivering it to the attendant of the synagogue, and sitting
down to expound what he had read, and open the promises of his mis-
sion;-—the curiosity ﬁrst. and then the astonishment, and then the
haughty wrath of his hearers, who were eager to learn what the car-
penter’s son had to an , but could no more endure the statement of his
claims than the peope of Jerusalem,—so famous for stoning the pro-

hets. Now, it appears that a place of public worship is less likely to
forgotten as the scene of a remarkable event, than any private dwell-
ing: and the, riot which ensued on this occasion was likely to ﬁx the
circumstances in the memory of the resident Jews, for the three centu-
ries which elapsed before the place was appropriated by tradition.
From that time, it has always been believed in, and held successively
by the Latins, devout Arabs, the Greeks, and now the Latins again.
Of course, no one supposes the very stones of which it is built to be
eighteen centuries old; but only that this is the spot on which there
has always since been a building. It is now a small and very plain
chapel;—a more old vaulted room, dim and antique-looking. I own
that my heart did, for once. beat with the true pilgrim emotion while
under the guidance of a monk. This was to me, the true spot of the
Annunciatiou,—of the annunciation of “ the acceptable year of the
Lord." Here he sat where probably others of the Therapeutic had
sat, calling to him the broken‘hearted and the captives, and the weary
and heav -ladeu: and when his critical townsrnen were sayin in their
hearts “ hysician, heel thyself," he announced to them sue mi ht
thin that were to be done above those which other teachers ha 0 -
fore . that they rose in wrath, and would faiu have ended his life and
doctrine together. As I have observed before, the aim of the Essene
seen—the physicians of bodies and souls,—was to bring out and re-
store the Moral Import of the Law ;—to revive the life of the Mosaic
system. That this was aka the aim of Jesus, no one can read the gos-

' The following papal certiﬁcate, in printed form,is hung up on the wall of this
'apartment:—“ Tradictio continua est, et nnnqnam interrupts, spud omnes nationes
Orienmlee, hanc pen-am, dictam Mensa Christi, illam ipsam ease supra quam Domi-
nus noster Jesus Christus cum suis eomedit discipulis, ante at post suam resurree
tionem a mortuis. Et Sancta Romans. Eoclesia Indulgentiarn eoneessit septem an-
nosurn et Iotidem qmdragcnannn. omnibus Christi ﬂdelibus htutc aaacwrn locum
visitnndibus, recitando saltem ibi unum Pater at Ave, dummodo sit in statu gratin."
Page-465
Kazan-rs. 468

pels without perceiving: but this was a preparatory work ;—-an all-im-
portant one in its season, and which required all the joint efforts of the
missionaries whom he sent through the land: but it was still only re-

aratory, and to last while the Law and the authority of the Prep ets
litsted: and then was to come that new order of things which was called
his kingdom. From that very day of his appearance, the blind ides
of the people were to be shamed: the traditional fabrications an legal
pedantries of the Pharisees were to be set asidefor a worship which
should be in spirit and in truth. The Mosaic system had become a
sort of Dead Sea, overhung with heavy vapors, delusive to the eye,
and pernicious to the life: and a wholesome breeze was now to sweep
over it, and make all vital and translucent. But the law itself was not
yet to be touched :—not " one jot nor one tittle“ was to pass away till
the new kingdom was prepared. This kingdom was what he that
day preached in the little synagogue at Nazareth. Others might have
sat in the same seat who taught that which was truth and life in com- .
parison with the teachings of the Pharisees: but here was 0ne,—-a
townsman, whose countenance was familiar to all who heard him,—
who proclaimed “the acceptable year of the Lord," and announced the
glad tidings of a kingdom to come.

There are several laces on ,. the brow of the hill whereon the city
was built," whence t ey mi ht have intended to east him down. The
monks show an impossible p ace. two miles off. It was enough for us
to station ourselves on the heights. and look about with clearer eyes
than the monks could have helped us to.

I am not aware that we have any record of any appearance of Christ
in the country west of Nazareth,—unless Dr. Robinson be ri ht in dif-
fering from other authorities as to the position of Cane of Gali ee.’ As
we rode, next da . however, from Nazareth to Mount Carmel, [could
not but regard al we saw as having been familiar to his eyes ; and I
was all day in a mood of rejoicin , for his sake, that this nook of the
world was so full of loveliness. cannot agree with those who regard
the life of Jesus as the mournful scene which it is commonly conceived
to be. It is natural enough for us to look upon it as mournful. The
tenderness of our gratitude and love makes us dwell on the and features
of his lotz—on the lowness of mind of his followera,—on the absence
of sympathy in his family.—-on the malice of his enemieep-oa the
apparent failure of his mission,—and on his humiliating and early
death. But did these things make up his life? Have we no truer
and higher sympathy with him than to be always looking for the thorns
that strewed his path, without remembering the glorious world that -
spread around him, and the clear heavens over his head! Had he not
all the gifts of the soul,—a hi her wealth than that of the whole world!
Had he not the pleasures o moral sympathy? If he was tortured,
even into expressions of vehement wrath, by the evil tempers of the
Pharisees, had he not intense enjo ments from the same source of sea-
sibility! Did not the widow at t e treasury, and the centurion, and

’ Biblical Researches, III. 204.
Page-466
4M ass-nus am.

the Sym—Phehician woman, and the family at Bethany,and the penita
woman, and the beloved disciple, all administer intense satisfaction.
him? Is it not true that the still under-current of human affairs and
human character is the purest and sweetest; and that it is the turbulent
and corrupt, art of human life which comes to the surface. and engage!
the eyes on earsof men? And did not Jesus know what was inns
and in his life i Was not all that was pure and sweet and noble knon
and felt to its very depths by him.in proportionas he was himself tru-
scendantly pure and sweet and noble? Is there no joy in aspiration!
Was his soul sad when he said ‘I the world hath not known thee; but
I have known thee I" Are there no special satisfactions to the scald
God,—to the apostle,—to the redeemer of men! ls there no substant'nl
happiness in steadfast devotedness i—no blissful thrill in self-sacrifice}
—no sense of ﬁlial repose in such a-martyrdom as his I To mall
rather appears thatif we were wise enough to enter into his expel'ielwe
as we ought, we should see that never before were a few months of life
so crowded with joys as were those of the Ministry of Jesus. Think
of the crowds who came to him with their several griefs. none of whom
he sent away sorrowingz—think of the multitude of the docile. and
hopeful, and faithful with whom he had communion :—think of his n- |
fuge in his solitude of s irit. and of his heavenly seasons of contemplt‘ '
tion and prayer:—thin of what the mere face of nature must hm
been to one who looked upon it with a sense quickened and deepttlwil l
like his :—-think, in short, what a heaven he carried within and 1M1
him, and say whether we are not irreverent and undutiful and hard If
we refuse to rejoice with him. as far as in us lies.

I think no one can refuse some such sympathy who follows his fad-
steps in his own Galilee. If the singers of Israel,—psalmisls Hid
prophets,—exalted Lebanon for its majesty,—its summits, its cataram -’
its black cedars and its snows, they praised Carmel for its bea‘ﬁlﬁ;I
richness. These mountains stand throughout the Hebrew poetry.“
the symbols of power and grace.—Lebanon has lost some of its stern
cedar roves ; but no changes of time can materially alter its character-
Carme has lost far more. Its fertility is much lessened. and the rich
woods which once clothed the slopes are now thinned,where they b?"
not disappeared. But nothing can impair the beauty of the position
of Camel, with the clear blue sea washing up to its base,—the shore
and the green plain of Zabulon stretching away on another side, and ‘

, billowy expanse of wooded hills retiring inland, closed in by the lustrous
roof of an Eastern sky.

The wooding of these Galilean hills was a surprise to us to-day. FO' ,
abouttwo hours after leaving Nazareth, the hills were stony, and sew l
tily clothed, as where they rise from the plain of Esdraélon: but all“
that. for aboutanother hour, the scenery became so like that of the Dﬂl‘
skirts of an English park, as to give us the same home-feeling that t"
had in meeting familiar weeds on our entrance into the Holy LIN]-
After crossing a stretch of the plain, which here runs in among the
hills, and passing a round well, and clear, fern-grown spring, near ll“
poor village which represents the once great city and university of SGP‘
Page-467
Iona-r cm. 405-

phoris, and then crossing more barley-ﬁelds, dropped over with clumps
of ﬁg and olive, and pomegranate coming into blossom, we entered upon
the range of hills which we thought so English in their character.
Rich grasses covered the slopes and feathered the glsdes, where the
gleam: and shadows and spring breezes were at their merry play.
Clumps of ilex wooded every pom—casting shade into the levels. and
overhanging the broken gravel-banks of the foreground. On we went,
under spreading old trees. up hollow ways, alon sunny glades, across
grassy levels, till it was scarcely possible to be ieve where we were,
and who had once been here. Then we descended upon the plain of
Zebulon, which is intersected by the Kishon. and enclosed by these
hills, the Camel range. and the sea. Here we came into full view of
the Mediterranean, dashing its white foam upon the sands. The little
town of Hayfa,‘ marked by the Consular ﬂags on the roofs, lay at the
foot of Camel; and on its heights, we saw the Convent, to which we
were bound. This is the most wooded side of Carmel, and it was
clumped extensively with ilex. We rode briskly along, the grassy road
at its base, and crossed the Kishon where it gathered and spread among
rocks, and ﬂocks of cattle and goats were crowded in and about the
I. It must have been near this spot that the great contest took place
tween the priests of Baal and Elijahd‘ that the people might no longer

“ halt between two opinions," but choose which god they would follow.
Here, at the base of Carmel, were, on the one hand, the four hundred
and ﬁfty priests of the Sun, with their garlands, altars, sacriﬁces :—
their jewels, their music, and their favoring multitude: and on the
other hand, was the “ hairy man girded with a leathem belt." Elijah
the Tishbite, with his servant, his altar of stones, and his faith in Jeho-
vah. I-Iere, amidst all the appareil of the splendid Sun God, who had
the king and queen for worshipers. did Elijah mock¢—-as man should
never mock at any object of faith; and here did he so bring round the
multitude as that they lent themselves to his work of vengeance, and
dragged down the whole body of the priests of the Sun to this river
side, and slewthem there. How different must the scene have been
in that day from anything that we saw! The king Ahab and his
household minister Obadiah, men of the opposite faiths, were abroad,
——§one in different directions with attendants, to seek out the springs
an fountains. and see if they could ﬁnd grass enough to keep their
beasts alive.§ This plain was then brown and dusty with drought,
where we were now riding over the turf and among wild-ﬂowers, and
passing cattle knee-deep in the cool waters. Where the ﬁres of sacri-
ﬁce were then blazing, and the plain was reeking in the heat under the
coppery sky, and human blood was curdling in the bellows of the
ground. we were pacin under the shade of woods. seeing the barley
wave in the breeze, an crossing the clear rivulets that stole down from
the heights. When we were on the summit.I was yet more impressed
with the contrast between the former day and this; and especially when

' Sometimes called Caiﬂ‘a -—anciently Hefa. ,
f things XVIII. i 1 Kings XVIIL 27. S 1 Kings XVIII. 5, 6.

30
Page-468
400 amass use.

I took my last look abroad before retiring to rest. As every ouehovs.
the summit of Carmel commands a magniﬁcent expanse of sea; and
below that rid o it was that Elijah sat, with his head bowed on he
knees, while is servant watched for signs of rain.‘ That sernsl
looked abroad long and patiently over the salt sea and desolated land:
and at last he saw only " a little cloud arising out of the sea, no In?
than a man‘s hand:” and when he had come down, “ the whole as-
ven was black with clouds and wind, and there was a great rain." I
looked abroad over the same scene this night. The whole mountain
side, dressed with blossoms and ﬂowering shrubs, and fragrant herbs.
was receiving the dews of the night. The plain, ready for harvest, ll]
dim below ;—-tbe undulating line of the surf just showed where the
land and the waters met; and over the ve horizon line of the heat-
ing sea,—-'ust where that little cloud might ave come up,—the slendtt
crescent o the youn moon was dropping into the waves. Such is my
vision of “ the excel ency of Carmel.”

It was not nearly sunset, however, when we arrived at the convex-
The approach is through Hayfa. and by a rocky, grassy, wooded reach.
to the foot of the ascent. The road up the mountain is very steep; W
it is fenced all the way; and the traveler almost forgets his fatigues in
the glory of the views. Acre. on the northern horn of the bay of which
Carmel is the southern, is very conspicuous,-—lying white on its pro
memory.

The convent is spacious and handsome; and a second house is build- .
ing for the reception of Mohammedan visitors. There are now twelve
monks in it; men of a far superior order, we thought. to most that 1"
had met. Brother Charles. who was our chief friend amon them.ms
a traveled man, and spoke French like his mother tongue. he convent
was laid waste by the Turks, at the time when theycsme up and murder
ed two thousand wounded French soldiers. who were brought hither"
be nursed: and in order to rebuild it, it was necessary to obtain
Brother Charles traveled over Europe to raise the money; and he see!!!
to have called forth good will wherever he went. He shows an album
which is as rich in the eminent names of Europe as his money 5‘3
was with its gold: and his open heart and manners indicate that he
has lived in kindness, given and taken. Such seems to be the spirit
of the establishment, where all strangers are welcome.—where
hungry are fed. the sick are nursed. and no question is made of matte"
of fait and opinion. I wish this example of the Christian spirit
been as operative on all who have beneﬁted by it as one mi ht hm
hoped it would be: but there is at least one person in the world Wllw
heart cannot be softened by the hospitable spirit of this place. If the
Pharisees were right in their doctrine of the transmigration of 90015-
one of them has t into this mam—a minister of the Free Choral! 0’ .
Scotland. who do ivers his paltry soul by pourin himself out in ll“
Visitors’ Book of the convent. The brethren e himas comfortable
as they could, and supplied him with the little dainties of distillery Ind

 

. 1 Kings XVIII. 42—45.
Page-469
comm or use“ mans. 4m

cookery. and from the garden and mountain side, which they prepare
with their own hands, for the indulgence of their visitors. The holy
man states this in the inscription he has left: says that here are all the
luxuries of the body; but asks where, in this convent, are we to look
for the salvation of the soul? He ends by declaring himself constrained
to cry out, “Where now is the Lord God of Elijah 2" The grateful
visitors who have succeeded this person have not spared him. Between
those'who are shocked at his ingratitude and pride, and those who are
amused at his self-complacency and bad taste, he is now pretty well
punished in the Visitors’ Book at Mount Carmel; so I will spare him
the telling of his name. ‘

The church of the convent is handsome; and it contains a picture
worth noting—the portrait of St. Theresa, whom I agree with Bossuet
in thinking one of the most interesting of the saints of his church.
The bringing together of remote thoughts in travel is as remarkable to
the indindual as the bringingt ther of remote persona s in the ac
tion of human life. How I use to dwell on the image 0 St. Heroes
in my childhood. and long, in an ignorant sympathy with her, to he a
nun! And then, as I grew wiser, I became ashamed of her desire for
martyrdom,—as I should have been of any folly in a sister, and kept my
fondness for her to myself. But ah the while, that was the Theresa of
Spain—mow wandering among the Moors in search of martyrdom, and
now shutting herself up in her hermitago in her father’s garden at
Avila. It had never occurred to me that I should come upon her traces
at Mount Camel. But hereshe was, worshiped as the reformatrix of
her order. It was she who made the Carmelites bare-footed—t'. ¢.,
sandaled instead of shod. It was she who dismissed all the indulg-
ences which had crept in amen her order; and she obtained by her
earnestneu such power over theiaser pans of human nature in those
she had to deal with. as to reform the Carmelita order altogether, and
witness before her death, the foundation of thirty convents,- wherein
her role was to be practised in all its severity. Martyrdom by the
Moors was not good enough for her; it would have been the mere gra-
tification of a selﬁsh craving for spiritual safety. She did much more
for God and man by living to the age of sixty-seven, and bringing back
the true spirit into the corrupted body of her order. Here she is—‘the
woman of genius and determination—looking at us from out of her stiﬁ'
head-gear—as true a queen on this mountain throne as any empress
who ever were a crown.

We saw the cave where Eli; h is said to have hidden himself; and
were shown the “ Pharmacie ’ of the monks—who distill excellent
oordials—and their gardens—on three terraces. But our walk down
the mountain side was our best entertainment. We thrust our way
among ﬂowering shrubs, tall hollyhocks, ilex and herbs of many sa-
vers. down and down, by a zigzag path. to the School of the Prophets.
It may he remembered that Obadiah} the household minister of Ahab,
hid a hundred of the prophets of the Lord in two caves. This is

'langaXVm4.
Page-470
468 nuns m.

shown as one of these caves; some, however, calling it the placed
Elijah’s altar. It is a very ﬁne grotto, in the ﬁnest position that fugi-
tives could desire—hardly within hearing of the waves washingtlte
base of the mountain, but overlooking a wide expanse of sea and shore.
The grotto is evidentl artiﬁcial, at least in its ﬁnish; and Pococke sup-
poses it to be entire y cut out of the rock. It is about 15 feet high.
40 long, and 20 wide. Iorne simple tombs of those who have that
here are at hand; and among them is that of an infant of the British
Consul at Jerusalem, whose lady was tenderly nursed here by the kind-
hearted monks.

Our hosts apologized for our dinner to—day. It was Friday: and
they gave as ﬁsh, soupdnaigre and eggs, and promised meat to-mormw.
But these good things, with liqueurs, “tonics” and coffee, gave an
very gentle idea of fasting. We had to amuse us within doors. an an-
cient map of Jerusalem, which may be said to be as much like that
city as any other; and some European newspapers, sent up to us from
the Harlequin. which was riding in the hay below, and whose oﬂioen
had scampered after us during our morning ride—rattled up to them
vent—taken breath, and galloped down again—jumped into the Hat'
lequin‘s boat—sent her back again with these newspapers, and had
them pitched up the mountain, in no time. I doubt whether “ Arab
intensity” itself transcends that of British naval oﬂicers. on a scampﬂ‘
ashore. We hoped that their dragoman was reclining at ease some-
where, to recover his breath and spirits.

The next da , April 17th, we had a charming ride to Acre and back.
Not being troubled with baggage mules, we could ride as we pleased;
and delightful it was to canter along the Bay of Acre, over the ﬁrm
sand. There were three wrecks ashore, telling of recent storms when
all was now so bright and glorious. We had to cross the Kishwv
where it ﬂows into the sea; and it was deep enough to require some
care. We escaped a wetting by sending in a man, who had already
waded through, and who showed us the best fording place. We crou-
ed another stream—the Belus. A great quantity of sponge is throw"l
up on this coast.

Acre is a wretched-looking place at present. The natural featum
about it are beautiful—its sea. and the rocks under water, a perfeel
feast to the eye; but the town itself is a sad image of rain. The bl"
mars are poor; the people dull; and the mighty fortiﬁcations battered
to pieces. The outer walls were in course of repair; and among “1"
workmen, we observed some convicts in chains. The distance of AC"
from our convent we reckoned to be from fourteen to sixteen mile?
When we returned. we were duly hungry; but were entreated to W!“
an hour for dinner, as more guests had arrived. We languished I"
hunger till half past six, when we were summoned to table in the W
loan. There was no dinner on the table; nor did it come for aqnmm
of an hour—during which time we had sufﬁcient amusement in 00'"
templating our position. Here were the Russian Countess, whom 7'
had left prostrated in the Church of the Holy Sepulchre at Jerusalem
her attendant lady, physician, and secretary. Beside these ﬁercely
Page-471
u-rnas to sum“. 409

moustached gentlemen, sat two smooth shaven. neat Americans. Here
was a party, collected from the ends of the earth, and set down on the
top of Mount Carmel. to be waited on by monks ! Such a party made
the good monks very busy. It was uncomfortable to think of the se-
verity of their rule. when I saw the dinner they set before us—ﬁrst,
soup and ﬁsh; then boiled fowls; then roast fowls; then broiled fowls;
and ﬁnally, a huge bowl of rich custard.

The next mornin our convent friends and we parted in hearty friend-
ship; and we paced unwillingly down the mountain, and turned away
from the sea. Our ride back to Nazareth made as sweet a Sunday
morning of this as we could have anywhere enjoyed. All was free
and quiet in the plain, and by the Kishon,-—whose windings we now
followed, and in the glades of what we called the park scenery of Gali-
lee.—We obtained a ﬁner view than before of Nazareth from the brow
of the hill; and on dismounting, went again into the church. to enjoy
the ﬁne chantin .

Our mule andg its driver awaited us, as We had been led to expect.
Just as Alee had foretold, the creature was declared by the Governor
of Djeneen to have been found upon the mountain; and fourteen piaa-
tres were charged for the trouble of its recovery. Like thieves in
general, the people of Djeneen are very impolitic. The place has
such a bad reputation that they ﬁnd themselves generally avoided by
travelers. If they do not mend their morals, they will soon see no more
strangers,—-eell no more provisions in that market, and be no more
wanted as guards.

CHAPTER VIII.

CANA.—MOUNT OF THE BEATITUDES.—TIBERIAS—PLAIN 0F GEN-
NESARETH—SZAFFAD.—UPPER VALLEY OF THE JORDAN—PA-
NIAS.—LEAVING PALESTINE.

WI: left Nazareth in a drizzling rain. It had delayed us till half-
past eight o’clock; but we were anxious to be oﬂ',—the air was so hot
and close in the convent. 0n the hills we met the breeze; and we
enjoyed it without being aware how much we should miss it, and sigh
for a breath of wind. during the next two days. Travelers going to
Tabarea (Tiberias) should be warned what the place is like. that they
may not be deluded, as we were, with pleasant visions of rest by the
lake-side; but take their survey, and ride away again. before they are
made ill by the oppression of the atmosphere. I would not judge by
our own passing experience; but I believe most or all of the travelers
who have remained any time at Tiberias since the great earthquake,
have complained of its climate and its vermin.

At about an hour and a half from Nazareth. Giuseppe turned up the
hills to the right. and made signs to us to follow him, though the bag-
gage-mules and servants continued along the valley. We did not. know
what we were to see. We passed through a poor hamlet, which, how-
Page-472
470 nae-nut am.

ever, had a copious spring, and a good growth of ﬁgsz—and we came
out upon a little Greek church:—the most sordid church,l think,l
ever saw. We waited outside for the key,—still in entire ignorance
of where we were. Close by the church-door grew several pomegra-
nate-trees, two of which were covered with magniﬁcent blossoms. As
old woman came with the key, and led us up to a stone shalt, breat-
high, with an irregular hollow at the top. which made it resembles
clumsy, unﬁnished font. This was the only remaining waterpotn
were told. which had held the wine at a marriage feast here; for this
was Cana of Galilee. I need not say that this was no water-pot. Dr-
Robinson questions this being the real Cans: but tradition is in farm
of this site; and there is no evident reason against the ordinary belief-
Iwas glad to have been here; and I brought away two pomegranal
blossoms, as memorials of the place.

We were as sure now as we could feel at Jerusalem of our beingou
the tracks of the Teacher. Everywhere about the lake, he traveled
and taught; and we might, anywhere here, look round as with the
certainty of seeing what he saw. A mountain near our road to-day.
about ﬁve hours, I think. from Nazareth. called by the natives the
Horns ol' Hottein, is named by the Christians the Mount of the Belti-
tndes, from the tradition that here Jesus delivered the Sermon on the
Mount. With those who believe that that body of holy instructions
was delivered on several occasions, and therefore most probablyin
different places. this tradition will have no weight: nor has it, I believe.
with any but the local guides. It is an oblong hill, green and fertile
on its eastern side, and with two eminences at one end of its ridge.—
from which it derives its native name. If Jesus did not sit there to
teach. he probably reclined there, as on all the hills near, in the course
of his way-faring, to look abroad: and from hence he could see {In
He could see over the Plain of Jezreel, which was, to every JeW. 5°
full of recollections, at once religious and historical. He could (we?
look the Lake of Galilee, and follow with his eye the ﬁshingrboall
where were some whom he designed to make ﬁshers of men. He
could see on the shores. and in the recesses of the hills, and at the
opening of the Plain of Gennesareth to the north. the cities over who“
hard worldliness he mourned, conceiving of them as lost. like T7”
and Sidon over to the west, and Sodom and Gomorrah to the south-
Here were all his haunts in this district, in his view at once :-——Mouut
Tabor near at hand: and below. the shore of the lake, the boats. 0“
pernaum and Bethsaida, and the solitudes to which he withdrew him‘
self for contemplation and prayer.—for rest to his soul. And here he
could meditate how yet more strongly, yet more clearly and incessantle
he could convey to his followers and the multitude his warnings again"
the husky religion of the Pharisees, and his blessings on the pure, ‘1'.“
sincere, the devoted, the peaceable, and the humble spirit, of which Ii
was hard {or the pupils of the Scribes and Pharisees to conceive. And
unlike, indeed, was his method of teaching to theirs. “ He taught 19
one having authority, and not as the Scribes." The people were 30'
customed to book-language, to legal terms, of admonitious about ritual
Page-473
'rnx loan-r or cannons. 471

matters: in short, to solemn triﬂing from mere expositors. Now they
were refreshed, through their whole heart and soul, by cheerful. fami-
liar, colloquial, original teaching from a prophet, who spoke without
book. and so directly and simply that the children might understand.
Our lifelong reverence for him, and our sabbatical associations with
the records of his words, naturally unlit us at home for perceiving the
intense familiarity of his teachings, and the beauty of that method of
appeal. What we feel to be so deeply true and beautiful we utter re-
verently,—as we ought: and the imagery is to us something foreign,
and belonging to a remote poetical and spiritual region; so that the
names and images cannot slip over the tongue like those of the corre-
sponding imagery at home. We even shrink from a full realization of
the truth as from a kind of irreverence ;—so that. at this moment, I
ﬁnd it difﬁcult to say plainly what I mean. What I mean is plainly
this. If Jesus were of Saxon race, and came now to reform and free
our souls, his imagery would be our rural cottages and the alleys of
our towns; the redbreast, the dogvrose and bramble; as in Galilee
they were the rock and sand-built houses, the ravens and the lilies of
the ﬁeld. He would call our political and religious sects, our Magis-
trates and Bishops, by their ordinary names: and so, assuredly, he
would the towns which received. and those which rejected his teach-
ings. It may sound irreverent. but it ought not to do so, to conceive
of him as saying “ Alas! for you, Liverpool,—a1as! for you, Bristol !"
and as declaring that proud Edinburgh or Lontlon should be humbled.
When one stands where I stood this day, above the lake, and among
the wild ﬂowers, and within sight of the places of theHenounced cities,
one feels a more intense relief,—a more cheerful and animated love for
those effectual discourses. than can ever be felt at home except by such
as have sufﬁcient strength of imagination and of piety, and sufﬁcient
knowledge, to transport themselves to the Teacher’s side. in his own
native region, and learn from himself alone,—puttin aside all devices
and superstitions of mam—what it was that he won] say to every one
of us. To my apprehension, on the spot. and with the records of his
life in my hand, and the recollections of Egypt and of Sinai fresh in
my mind. nothing could be simpler than his recorded words, and no-
thing less like what is superstitiously and irreverently taught, as coming
from him, in most of the churches of Christendom. Here he stood as .
the way, the truth and the Iife:—-the Messiah who was, as he believed,
to lead his people into a new and spiritual kingdom, into which man-
kind might enter, when the Law had been fulﬁlled. Here he stood as
the truth and the life, to bring men into that closer connection with God
as their Father which was to be added to their ancient relation to Je-
hovah as their King. He strove to detach their minds from the forms
and means of religion, and ﬁx their hearts upon its life and reality.
He strove to raise them into a condition of earnestness, sincerity, and
gentle affections towards God. and their neighbors, and their enemies:
and to ﬁt them thus for entrance upon his new kingdom of righteous-
ness, whose approaching establishment was his great topic of promise.
And he used for all this a method of appeal, such as every eﬂ‘ectual
Page-474
472 ns'rnn Lin.

teacher must use—appeal to their daily knowledge and observation. to
their social experience. their domestic aﬂ'ections,—in short. their very
commonest aﬂ'airs and interests. He spoke of the kneading of bread
the bottling of wine, the sowing of seed, the mending of clothes, the
moth and the rust. and the washing of dishes, as well as of throne!
of clouds, and of the lightning which shines from one-end of the heaven
to the other.

The ﬁrst thin I looked for, on coming within sight of the lake,wu
ﬁshing boats. had read and heard that we should see none; the
poor and indolent inhabitants having never replaced the last they had'
which was destroyed above thirty years ago : but yet,l could not help
hoping that they might have exerted themselves by this time, to obtain
the means of ﬁshing in their waters. But they ﬁsh merely by casting
nets, thrown from the beach or the rocks: and there was now no boat
nor any si of human activity, as far as we couldsee. Mountains,
valleys an lake all lay dead. At this ﬁrst view, I thought I had never
seen a sheet of water so entirely without beauty. Even the Dead Set
had looked less hot, less dull, and much less insigniﬁcant. This,hov-
ever, was the view from a considerable height; and its aspect improved
when we had descended the long, winding road, and Tiberias was in
the foreground, and the waters had become a deep blue, instead of a
leaden gray.

But, of all desolations, that of the town is the worst. Outside, it
has a substantial appearance, from the apparent strength of the walls'
and the number of their towers: but the walls are split and loosened.
and the towers decapitated by the earthquake which laid low the rest
of the city in 1836. Within the gates, there is really scarcely any-
thing left but heaps of ruins. The town is like one vast dust-hole.
swarming with vermin. We found afterwards that our late comrades had
been more prudent than ourselves, and had refused to be housed in the
town. They pitched their tents outside. We permitted ourselves to
be guided to the house of a worth y German Jew, who sincerely desires.
as does his wife, to make his guests comfortable. but who cannot
achieve itin such a place, and such a climate.——0ur sitting-room looked
tempting when we entered it; shady, airy, with a newly chalked ﬂoor,
and neat deewin,—windows closed only by shtitters.—chickens chirp-
ingjust below them,—and a martin's nest built on the top of the chain.
from which hangs the lamp in winter. It was no fault of our host's
that we presently felt as if a fever was coming urn—breathless and
uneasy. This was the fault of the climate; and for four-and-twenty
hours after, we did not draw a free breath. We had met with some-
thing of this before descending to the Lake: as was proved by our not
having ascended Mount Tabor. I earnestly wished it; but the gentle-
men decreed that it would be imprudent, on account of the heat: and
they promised that we should go to-morrow.

0n the morrow, I did beg hard to be allowed to go : but the whole
party were panting, as if in a vapor bath; my companions were fatigued
by the wretched night they had had : and the gentlemen declared them-
selves actually unable to make the exertion. [felt that I could, and
Page-475
Trnlnns. 473

that the fresh air on the hills would more than compensate for the
fatigue: and it was nearly settled that I should set off, attended by
Alec: but we were assured that itwould be unsafe for so small a party
to go: and I was obliged to give it up. This was the only serious
omission that I am aware of in our whole journey: but there could
hardly be one which we could regret more.

We stayed within all the morning. on aecountof the heat : but in the
afternoon, we found the house insufferable, and went out to seek relief
in change of place. We found the town to be what its appearance
indicated yesterday,—mere toppled stones patched up into dwellings,
with ruins lying all about. On many roofs we saw little square cham-
bers built of reeds, with green boughs for a ﬁnish;—tabernacles to
sleep in. somewhat like those which used to be on every house top, at
the old Feasts of Tabernacles. Some of these looked small enough to
be more pigeon-houses: but the inhabitants creep into them for the
night, and sometimes by day, for refuge from the heat and vermin
below.—We walked southwards beside the Lake, towards the Baths:
and found the waters clear; the beach composed of large round peb-
bles ;—-the oleanders coming into blossom all along the shore ;—and
massive ruins strewn about, and even extending a considerable way
under water. Our host pointed out some of these wrecks as the re-
mains of a bathing-house which Moses and Miriam had here ! And
yet this man was a German Jew, who might be expected to know
something of the entrance of his people upon the Promised Land.

From time to time, within the last few days. we had met parties of
travelers who looked like invalids: and. on inquiry, we found they had
been to these Baths of Tabarea, to which the sick resort from all parts of
the country. We found a considerable number of people in and about
the baths to-day. The water, where it bubbles up from the earth, was
so hot that I could not bear my ﬁnger in it for many seconds. It
leaves a yellow and black scum on the earth and stones over which it
passes; and travelers who have bathed in the otherwise cold waters of
the lake, near where the mineral spring ﬂows in. say that they found
themselves in a tepid bath. Mrs. Y. and I were permitted to enter the
women’s bath. Through the dense steam,I saw a reservoir in the
middle of the apartment, where, as I need not say, the water stands to
cool for some time before it can be entered :—several women were
standing in it; and those who had come out were sitting on a high
shelf in a row, to steam themselves thoroughly before they put on
their clothes. The crowd and the steam were so oppressive, that I
wondered how they could stay: but the noise was not to be endured
for a moment. Every woman of them all seemed to be gabbling at the
top of her voice, and we rushed out after a mere glance, stunned and
breathless. To this moment, I ﬁnd it difﬁcult to think of these crea-
tures as human beings: and certainly I never saw anything, even in
the lowest slave districts of the United States, which so impressed me
with a sense of the impassable differences of race.—We sought refresh-
ment, on our return, in a different sort of bathing. We were longing
for coolness above everything; so Mrs. Y. and I went into the Lake
Page-476
474 lass-alts Lm.

from a ﬁne old rooﬂess tower, which had been shattered by the earth-
quake. At its base, the water was four feet deep; and through the
wide rents in its wall, the moonlight broke the deep shadows on the
waters, and rippled on the surface.

Ibraheem Pasha built some pretty baths at the hot springs we had
visited; and repaired them two or three times, after injuries from rob-
bers. But the robbers were the stronger party: and they came so
often, that the baths are deserted and going to ruin. The marble ﬂoor.
deewﬁns and reservoir are now all dusty and desolate.

The refreshment from our hath passed away so immediately that"
were convinced that our lsssitude and distress were from the atmo-
sphere. We gave orders for a very early departure the next morning,
and had no comfort meantime.

Our host had lost his wife. and all his children but one. and was him-
self lamed. by the earthquake of 1835. It seems strange that he should
remain in such a place,—-marrying a new wife, and rearing a second
family‘ on the very spot where such a misfortune had happened. and
might at any moment recur. But Tiberias is one of the four Holy
Cities of the Talmud: and is sure, therefore. to be always frequented
by Jews. We had visited two of the four cities.—Hebron and Jen-
salem; and to-morrow we were to arrive at the fourth, Szaﬂ'ad.

Accordin to our host, the population of Tabarea is at least what it
was before t e earthquake. Eight hundred people were then destroyed.
and' very few were left. Now there are about a thousand in all: vi!"
400 Mohammedans; 400 Jews; and 200 Christians.

Before four o’clock, the next morning, April 2lst. Iwas looking
abroad from a sort of terrace, where I had gone, as soon as dressed.
for air, when 1 saw a curious sight. The neighbors were not up; and
I overlooked many households asleep on their roofs. They had laid
their mattresses there, and slept in their ordinary clothes, with a cover-
let thrown over them. As the day-light brightened upon their faces.
one after another began to wake.—the children stirring ﬁrst. They
rolled and rubbed their eyes, threw 06 their coverlets, and jumped up
—dressed for the day apparently.

From point to point of our journey this day, Tiberias looked well,
seated on the shore between the hills and the lake, and in osed by its
turreted wall. Our road wound up and along the hills, and some
times overhung the beach, as we went northwards towards the plain
of Gennesareth. This beach must always have been pretty enough.
with its boulders, and ﬂowering shrubs, and white pebbles, and clear
waters. to make it pleasant for the traveler to imagine it, in the days
when the multitude collected there to greet and hear the Teacher, and
when the disciples sat there mending their nets, as their boats ﬂoated :
little way from the land. But it is difﬁcult to conceive that this vol-
canic basin can ever have been a healthy abode for men. As I looked
over it all this day, it struck me how dreary it must be in a storm. A
murkiness hangs upon it in the brightest weather: and when, of old, 8
squall came down from among the enclosing hills, and overtook the
vessel laboring in the midst of the lake, a more dreary scene of ale.
Page-477
PLAIK- 0" armament. ‘7‘

mental co'mmotion could hardly be imagined; nor a more welcome
relief when “ the wind ceased, and there was a great calm."

As .we descended into the plain of Gennesareth, we perceived it to

be abundantly watercd' , and our track was muddy ;—a new incident
to us. Migdol,-—the old Magdala,—-is now a wretched village. We
passed massive ruins of some ancient structures ;—weed-grown walls
overhang a clear running stream, and embosomed In blossoming shrubs.
The plain was scantily cultivated: but so thickly-grown with weeds as
to show how fertile it might still be.—Clouds passed over us from the
north-west, sprinkling heavy drops as they went; and they were suc-
ceeded by hot sunshine: but these changes seemed to have'no effect
on the weather in the basin below. where all was a leaden gray.—We
ascended by narrow tracks, rocky hills which occasionally afforded
some relief of table-land, with its settlements and orchards; but which
became steeper and longer as we approached Szaﬂ‘ad. (the ancient
Saphet.) which we reached in about eight hours from Tiberias. In one
pass. about two hours short of Szaﬂ‘ad, we saw portals in the precipice.
which told of sepulchres within.

Szaﬁ‘ad is an extraordinary place; and I could not but wonder that
we brought so few associations to the spot as we did. It is the magni-
ﬁcent crest of some of the loftiest summits in Palestine; and it is seen
towering above every object on this side Lebanon, from a great distance
every way. Dr. Robinson saw it from Nazareth; and from it may be
seen, in clear weather, Carmel. and the mountains of Samaria beyond
the plain of Esdraélon, and the extremity of the Lake of Tiberias,
where the Jordan issues from it. The atmosphere was not clear
enough this evening. for us to see these things: but our eyes were
amply entertained with what lay neuron—The whole vicinity is very
fertile, the ruins of former streets being made to support. as terraces,
the soil from which spring corn, olives. ﬁgs and vines, in great quanti-
ties. The situation of the place is so lofty, and its air so pure in
comparison with that of the plains In every direction, that it was greatly
resorted to for health, in the days of its prosperity: and even from
Damascus the royal children were. in ancient times. sent hither for
change of air. and enjoyment Inf the abundant fruits. It is plentifully
and incessantly watered. so that one would think. —with good soil.
air and water.—-nothing could impair the natural prosperity of the
place. Yet it is a most mournful ruin. The earthquake Is the foe
that has laid it low. [I played its dreadful pranks as vivaciously here
as on the lower ground. ‘ The town. divided into quarters. lay on the
summits of four hills. with its massive castle towering above as the
centre of the noble diadem. Now, these quarters are four enormous
heaps of rubbish. The houses having been built in tiers. fell, one row
upon another, so as to make the ruin complete: and now, the vines are
trained over the fallen roofs; and from the heaped stones. sordid abode!
are scooped out, to lodge those who will not leave the fated place.

Not only are there many who will not leave the place. but numbers
are perpetually arriving. to live and die at this. the most sacred of the
four Holy Cities. One of the quarters was appropriated to the Jews ,

f

u

f
Page-478
470 Ian!!! am.

and at one time there were not fewer than 12.000 at Szaﬂ'ad. While
the place declined, from being oﬂen retaken by Christians and lo-
hammedans, other classes of inhabitants left it, or reduced their mm-
bers: but the Jews remained. They had a university and a printing
establishment, from which they sent forth learned men and the reemth
of their lore. One reason of the sacredneas of the place is the traditisl
that Queen Esther was born there: another, that many eminent rabbi:
are buried there: a third, that it is one of the four Holy Cities: bat
the strongest reason of all is the prevalent belief that the Messiah vii
ﬁrst come to Szaﬂ‘ad; and will reign there for forty years before he
goes to Jerusalem. Those whom he ﬁnds watching, he will highly
exalt, as the watchers believe; and their hope is to obtain oﬁces 0"
honor in his kingdom. Even the dead will be the better for having
died there: and thus, many a poor Polish or Italian Jew toil: and
saves, and saves and toils, to get to Szaﬂ'ad, to end his days. On VI
arrival. he is presently stripped of his savings, by the local exactiw
which have been ordained to meet such cases as his; and then he liveI
on as he can: but, be his wretchedness what it may, he never lea'cl
Szaﬂ‘ad. The employments here are chieﬂy indigo-dyeing. spinning
and weaving cotton. growing fruit, and preparing wine. I observed 1
I'ew palms still, though I thought we had seen the last of them: ad
abundance of pomegranates, lemons and walnuts.

Our encampment was beside a cemetery. in a little valley beth
two of the four eminences mentioned above. The castle towered
above it; and the hill sides were marked by winding ways up to the
summits. Near us was a copious spring, ﬂowing into a cistern. when
noisy women were thronging all day. When I went in the evenilt
to see the spring, the women were boisterous and rude, pulling at Ill)’
dress, trying whether my hat would come off. and so on: even though ‘
our dragoman was within si ht: but when we entered two or thm
houses, to taste wine and maﬁa inquiries. the people were very civil.—
While daylight lasted, there was a row of gazers crouched on the gran
before the tent, peeping in so pertinaciouslyy—in spite of warniugdnd
a few blows from the servants, that we were obliged to let down the
curtains. We s ent the daylight hours in walking about the remIIM
of the town, an lookin abroad from the lofliest points. [was 0“
nearly the highest groun when the sun went down behind the western
mountain. dim. and as pale as the moon. All transparency seemed_l°
be departing from the atmosphere; and where the Sea of Tiber!”
should have been. there was at last only a blot of dark gray trap??-
The wind was rising and falling,,and the aspect of this once gmmry
and stronghold was most cheerless.

The night and morning being rainy, we rose late,—at half past Six;
and merely looked about us, without attempting to start till the well)!“
cleared : but by nine o’clock, the clouds were gone, except a few ﬂeece!
hanging about the mountains; and. as we descended Djebel Saaﬂ’a‘L
we saw to the utmost advantage the wonderful ruin crowning the steep3
above us, and the beautiful Upper Valley of the Jordan, new opening
before us. Its scenery is of a mild and soft character: and we saw u
Page-479
um: um.“ or m JORDAII‘. 471

well under the gleamy lights of a changing day. We could fancy we
saw almost to Damascus, over the intervening mountain ranges. But
we soon descended so far as rapidly to narrow the View; and pre-
sently we found ourselves in a gorge, leading to a rich little plain, or
recess among the hills. where the ﬁelds were waving with corn, and
much cattle was collected about a spring in the rock. with, apparently.
scarcely any one near to take care of either. We found that this cul-
tivation was the work of the industrious Szaﬁ'ad people, who, with a
much better soil and fuller return, seem to practice a tillage as laborious
as that of the people of the Alps.

Passing over low hills to the leﬂ, we descended upon the plain of
the Upper Jordan, where the tracks were so well marked that I felt
myself independent of our guides, and could ride on as I pleased.
There was a little dull lake lying in the plain, to the north. with ﬂat,
swampy shores and gray waters, which would not have interested us
but for its ancient reputation. This was Lake Houle,—“ the Waters
of Merom,” of Scripture,—where Joshua conquered the kings of
Canaan who had united their forces there. A space of ﬁve miles in-
tervenes between this lake and the hills at whose base we were riding.
No two travelers agree about its size; the reason of which is that it is
always changing.—being a mere marsh in the hot season, and a brim-
ming lake after the rains of winter. We saw it in its half and half
state; and without the enlivenment of the water fowl which scream
and plash away among its sedges, in their own season.

The character of the scenery had now entirely changed. and become
something quite new to us. The fatness of the valley reminded us,
through this and the succeeding day. of all the scripture imagery relat-
ing to fertility which we had not seen exempliﬁed in the higher and
drier western regions. Even here, we were on high ground compared
with that part of the Jordan valley which we had struck at Jericho:
for the waters of Lake Houle rattle down a long descent for eight of
the ten miles which lie between it and the Sea of Tiberias; and then
again ﬂow down a descent all the way to the Dead Sea: but even here.
at the upper end of the Jordan valley, there were moisture and marsh
and aquatic produce on every hand. on the richest of the pastures
were feeding the ﬂocks of the Bedoueens, while the black tents of the
herdsmen speckled the uplands. The acacia and the plane began to
draw together in clumps. and spread a broader shade. The cranes
waded in taller grass, and winged their ﬂight in larger ﬂocks. Fat
buﬁalo wallowed in the pools: and innumerable little tortoises perked
up their impudent heads from every streamlet and swamp. Men and
boys stood almost hidden in the canebrakes, cutting reeds: ants swarmed
in the tracks, and shining lizards darted about among the stones at the
skirts of the hills. Here and there were long reaches of tilled land.
where the people were busy among their barley crops: and the smokes
of two or three hamlets arose from promontories that jutted out into
the streams which were making their way to the Jordan.

While we were in the full enjoyment of all this, we were delighted
to learn that we were to stop at one of the most tempting spots we had
Page-480
478 am urn.

seen. We had traveled little more than four hours: but we had Ir
rived at the frontier line which divides the Pashalics of Acre aadDa-
masons; and there was an establishment of guards which it was aawell
to take advantage of for our security at night. These people take loll
here ;—seven piastres for every loaded camel, and so on. They lit!
in reed huts,—very picturesque. but little serviceable: and the sash-
ment consists merely of three or four of these huts. and a mill. The
stream below the mill spreads out among reeds and little thickets; aid
it is crossed by a long row of stepping-stones. The mill-race gaitH
us up to a pile of rocks, behind which lay a large pond. or small Ish-
with tiny pebbly beaches. and promontories and little precipiwsrth
whole hedged in by close thickets of ﬂowering oleandera and other
blossoming shrubs. From one of these tiny white beaches. I sawvby
a pencil of light in a dark cove. a black duck at anchor; so still the"
looked as if it would never move again. I returned to the tenth
bathing apparatus; crossed the stream by the stepping-stones. '0‘
behind the deserted mill. and into the mill-race. The water was I
worm that I was tempted to explore this delicious nook by means of it
One dark recess or cavern, in which the water was not above till!
feet deep. looked mostentieing. I found it hung with vines, and wild
with delicate ferns, which waved in the continual breeze made by ti!
passage of the water. A gush of light through a very low arch in ll!
rock tempted me on. I stooped through it, and found myself in the
shady cove I had seen from the little beach, with the black duck beside
me, still at anchor.

Many hours of the day were yet before as, for rambling. radix
sewing and bringing up our journals. I do not know that we had ,
anywhere a more welcome rest than here on this frontier line of D‘-
mascus. And it was not quite our last day in the Holy Land.

We saw from our camp a mysterious-looking arch, high up on Ill
western hill side. Iwent before breakfast, the next morning (A1)!"a
23d), to see what it was. I obtained a glorious view by going; 5“"
was no wiser about the arch. I found three arches—two of them being
parallel, built close together, and corresponding precisely to the IlllﬂﬂlI
of the cave before which they stood. An aqueduct being out of the qﬂﬁ‘
tion in such a place, I cannot imagine what these erections could be.
The cave, and two others near, were evidently in use; for there '39
rags and mats strewn about, and recent marks of tire. The view '3'
so exquisite. from the verge of the'plain to the sonth,to thesnowy p6"
of Hermon on the north. that I would fain have stayed on the heiglﬂ‘v
to see the ﬁrst ﬂood of sunshine cost over the scene: but far below-
Giaseppe was setting our breakfast table in the open air: and] must!“

To-day we crossed the valley of the Jordan at its northern end‘
which is closed in by Mount Hermon. now called DjebelShsikh. Tl”

lace where we took our mid~day rest was the ancientDan. We 00'
new the country from Dan to Beersheba. At the extremity of d"
Valley. the mountains gradually subside—their lower slopes be“!
wooded hills, which we skirted during the latter part of this day’s ride-
We were now familiar with the course of the Jordan—from its sprint“
Page-481
Pastas. ' 479

which we were about to visit, to its present southern limit—the Dead
Sea—and ain, to the point where it is believed to have once ﬂowed
into the Re Sea at Akaba. We had in Edom traveled in its ancient
channel; that channel which has been dry for some thousands of years;
and now we were visiting its sources.

Before we reached the ﬁrst of these, we crossed a ﬁne old bridge,
of three arches, roughly paved at the top, and without any parapet,
though it sprang to a great height above the rushing river. Its yellow
atone contrasted ﬁnely with the dark green of the thickets which co-
vered the banks of the stream; and the profusion of the blossoms of the
oleander cast a pink glow over these dark thickets. Several herdsmen
had brought their cattle down to drink; and men and cattle were re-
posing in the shade. It was an exquisite picture.

The ﬁrst of the supposed sources of the Jordan which we reached
was at Tel-el-Kader. A pretty wooded hill. level at the top, rises from
the plain ; and from its base issue some abundant springs, which dash
forward among stones so as to make a rapid. Here we stayed some
time to rest; and I sat on a large stone in the water, watching the hub-
bling out of the spring among the ferns and rock ﬁssures, and shaded
by a fig-tree loaded with green fruit.

From thence to Panias—the Caesarea Philippi of the New Testament
—our ride was through scenery resembling that which we had called
park~land between Nazareth and Mount Carmel. We had the same
slopes. broken banks, shady hollows and sunny glades ;—-and the same
wild ﬂowers by the way side.

Wehad long seen the great Saracenic castle of Panias on its moun-
tain top—looking almost too high to be reached by man or beast. As
we approached we found another castle below, standing beside the
village: and ancient ruins appeared to be scattered here and there, far
and wide over the gloriously beautiful scene. Out of Poussin’s pic-
tures, I never saw anything in the least like the scene, as we looked at
it from under the shade of the olive grove wherein our tents were pitched.
Yet Poussin himself, who put more objects distinctly into his land-
scapes than any other painter, could not have included all that was
here harmoniously combined by Nature’s master hand ;—-the deep
shadow from beneath which we looked forth—the undulating ground—
the high grass and weeds—the ravine below—the massive peaked ruin
near—the red rocks in front—the western mountains—the town on its
terrace. embosomed in woods and hills—the poplar clump—the mul-
berry rove—the gay horsemen fording the stream—and the high
groun a backing all ;—this combination was magniﬁcent. In Europe,
how far would travelers go to see such a landscape!

Three of us set forth immediately. to learn something of the objects
of the place: but our guide could speak nothing but Arabic; and he led
us by such a toilsome path, over rubbish and among aperfeot jungle of
weeds, that I turned back, leaving the gentlemen to reconnoitre in pre-
paration for to-morrow’s sight seeing, while I went down into the ravine
to bathe. The stream gushed between two faces of rock, where the
wild vines made a natural trellise overhead ; and under that green canopy
Page-482
480 names Lin.

1 was tempted on and on by the sound of a waterfall, which, pouring i
down from the foundations of an old ruin, made a charming shove
bath. What a luxury was our daily revel in cold water, after osm-

cent weeks of Desert traveling! I

Meantime. the gentlemen found the shrine of old Pam—from who!
the place derived its most ancient and most modern name : the Rom
name by which it was known at the time of the New Testamenth‘sv
tory being intermediate between the two. We went to it, the next
morning; and an extraordinary place we found it. In a precipim!
face of rock is a large, dim grotto,—perfectly dry when we werethere
and showing no trace of the passage of waters. A ﬁg tree issued frost
a crevice in the cave, and, reaching the roof. and thence drooping is
large leaves, ﬁlled the place with a soft green light. In the depth of
the recess was a niche,—empty now ; for the great Pan is dead!
Above the cave, in the face of the rock, is a large niche ; and othet!
are beside it, each at a lower height, till two justshow themselves above
the stony ground. These niches are arched 06' with graceful slid
ornaments; and in one of them is the base of a statue, showing how
it had been occupied. These were the shrines of the Nymphs: I!"
empty ;—for the Nymphs ﬂed when the great Pan died. Wheal
used to read, over and over, that ﬁne old story of how. when the hu-
venly host told the shepherds at Bethlehem of the birth of Christ.l
deep groan. heard through all the isles of Greece, told that the gm
Pan was dead, and that all the royalty of Olympus was dethroned!!!"
the several deities were sent wandering in cold and darkness, howlildc
did I dream that I should ever visit any spot where the noble fable
would ap ear like historical truth ! Yet here was the place! A!
Osiris ha passed away before; and the widowed Isis, who was I0
have mourned him eternally, had also melted away; and Pan, whether
another or the same. succeeded him in the homage of men ;—so Pill:
in his turn, retired and humbled himself when this beloved fountain of
his was taken from him. and called Jordan. and then pined and died
when one was born by whom his empire was overthrown. It W
when he thus retired, in the decline of his glory, that this spot assault!d
its Hebrew sanctity ;—a sanctity miserably understood and expressed:
as we see by the setting up of golden calves to Jehovah, as the
Amun of the Hebrews, on this northern limit of the Promised Lani
and at the source of its great river; and before it was hallowed afrull
at the death of Pan, Herod here offered his ﬂatteries to Roman pom
by building a great palace for the Emperor, and calling the old Paniﬂm
by the name of Casarea Philippi. This was the name of the pl!“
when he came hither whose Gospel of Peace was disarming and de-
throning the old idols of mankind. Hither he came, not waging WI"
with idols or with men, but walking among these hills. asking of M
followers,‘ “ Whom do men say that I, the Son of Man. am 2" ﬁnd
then charging “ his disciples that they should tell no man that he W
Jesus the Christ." Here it was that he made those promises to Pelt?
of high oﬁice in his approaching kingdom, on which the Romish ehul'd1

. Mm. XVI. 13, 20; Mark vm 27, so.

i
Page-483
turns. 48!

has built her power. and on the plea of which she maintains and will
long maintain it. In that church the discrowned deities, dismissed
from their shrines here and elsewhere, have found a long refuge. If
Pan is dead, they are not: for all the idolatries most congenial to un-
disciplined human nature are concentrated there, and brought into
strange association with the faith and name of him at whose birth they
came down from their thrones. And their power is great enough still,
outside the pale of that church, as well as within it, to desecrate and
corrupt the faith which has succeeded to their own. They have but
too much part still, every one of them, from Osiris to the latest of his
Syrian and Greek progeny, in the faith which goes by the name of
Christ, to the dishonor of that holy name.

To this spot he came,—probably to see the ﬂowing forth of Jordan
from the rock. In gazing at that, he must have seen these niches. and
the inscriptions which show in whose honor they were made. What
a singular and most interesting union of ideas this is ! It muses our
minds to read of Paul at Athens,—-and our classical and religious asso-
ciations are curiously blended when we read his address uttered before
the alien—that most venerable altar,—of the Unknown God. But what
is that to this! Here came Jesus, to the shrines of Pan and the
Nymphs, and had their statues probably, and certainly their sculptured
shells and glorifying inscriptions. before his eyes. N 0 place could be
a ﬁtter one in which to speak privately to his followers of his Messiah-
ship and his approaching kingdom, and in which to distinguish by ex-
traordinary promises the follower who. being the ﬁrst to acknowledge
his Messiahship. was selected by him to be the main support of his
anticipated empire.

The springs over which Pan and the nymphs held special watch
were usually beautiful. in themselves or in their environs. And if the
waters hers did ever really ﬂow out of the cave itself, nothing could
well be more striking. They are generally represented as gushing from
the cave; and even Burckhsrdt, the most reliable of reporters, says,
“ the largest niche is above a spacious cavern, under which the river
rises.” As it certainly rose at the foot of the rock, and was ﬁrstseen
issuing from the stones, and not from the cavern at all, when we were
there. it is satisfactory to ﬁnd that Seetzeu says, " the copious source
of the river of Panias rises near a remarkable grotto in the rock," he.
he. I cannot understand how so many authorities can assign the more
picturesque origin to this spring. when the cave was certainly perfectly
dry when we visited it, and the stream ﬂowed forth in a diﬂ'erent direc-
tion, and at a distance of several yards. This cannot, I imagine. beta
variable circumstance, on which travelers might differ without hci

wrong. as in the case of the qualities of the water of the Dead Sea,
and other instances.

The later faith which has transcended all preceding religions in its
power over the human race,—the Mohammedan, which has won its tens
of thousands to the thousands of any other faith well known to us,—
is not without its representative here. Toweri above the shrines of
the Greek deities, and the source of the sacred ebrcw river, and the
Page-484
48! sass-nu ms.

site of the palace of the Cesare. and the ﬁelds where Jesus valid“
the great Saracenic castle, held for ages in the name of Allah aai
Mohammed his Prophet. We saw it long. this day. as we wereridiag
over the boundary hills of Palestine.

These were outlast hours in the Holy Land. From these high!
we looked back upon a land of most variegated scenery ; and. l unit
not but feel, of faiths curiously commingled. strong as was the Jevid
profession of unity of faith and of race. The main feature of its faith
however, its monotheism. ﬁnally remained unchanged for so lotgs
to serve as a basis for its distinctive character before the wodi
Though allegorically impaired by the Pharisaic sect before the tinted
Christ. and by the Alexandrian and other Christian parties ever list:
that great doctrine has remained, on the whole. practically established:
and this it is which distinguishes this birth-place of a religious hill ‘
above perhaps every other on earth} Next to this ranks the distinb ‘
tion given it by the appearance of Christ. When men shall hat!
learned to receive his doctrine in the simplicity with which he gaveit ‘
-—to receive it from himself. from his life and from his words.—th€y
will probably become aware that it is its commixture with superstition! .
and institutions older than itself which is the cause of its not havilt ’
been more extensive and eﬂ'ectual in its operation than the history!)‘
eighteen centuries shows it to have been.—Encutnbered with mad!
that was never contemplated by the Teacher himself, and that is incoII- ‘

atible with the whole spirit of his gospel ;-—encutnbered with a pried-

ood and ritual of its own. and adulterated with more or fewer of “f
superstitions of all the nations who ministered to the Hebrew mind. It
is no wonder that the true doctrine of Christ is overlaid and ahnttlt
destroyed. The Paternity of God, extending to all men; the infalliblt ,
operation of His Will or Providence; His strict Moral Government
by which moral retribution is inevitable; therbrotherhood of the whole
human race. and in that the promise of peace on earth and good Vi“ 3
towards men :—and the establishment of a spiritual kingdom on elflh ‘
of which he should be Prince and his followers the administrators, W I
dead rising to enter into it, and the living to be admitted withottt death: l
—the expiration of the Jewish Law on the establishment of this but 1
dom, and the spiritual nature of the new religion, which was to have 3
the heaven and the earth for its temple, and the whole body of 59‘ i
lievera for its priests ;—these were the points of faith which appwj ” ‘
have been oﬂ'ered by Jesus himself;-the simple Glad Tidings ﬁlm-'1' ‘
the earnest disciple hears from him when listening to his voice ll?!“ ‘
in the retirements of Palestine, sequestered from the embarrwln! !
echoes of other countries and later times.—It was thus that Palestllﬂ
and its Faith appeared to one, at least, as I looked back this day. 71°“
't'heﬂlridge of the eastern hills. for the last time upon the Valley 0f ‘1"

0 an.
Page-485
PART IV.

SYRIA AND ITS FAITH:
Page-486
" Thus in the faiths old Heathendom that shook,
“Vere different powers of atrife.
Mohammed’s truth lay in a holy Book,
Christ“: in a sacred Life."
Milan. Pain haw

“Call it not falte: look not at the falsehood of it; look at the truth of it. Fort-hut
twelve centuries it (Mohammedanism) has been the religion and life guidanced
the ﬁlth part of the whole kindred of mankind. Above all, it has been a [elixi-
hnrtily believed." Carlyle. Hem. WM, p. 121

"It is the promise of Christ to make us all one ﬂock; but how and when this
union ahall be, is as obscure to me as the last day. Of those four members of rel'r
gion" (Pagans, Jews, Christians, and Mohammedans), " we hold a slender plow
tion. There are, I oonfess, some new additions, yet small to those which accrue 0
our adversaries, and those only drawn from the revolt of Pagans, men but of w
the impieties, and such as deny Christ, but because they never heard of him. 3“
the religion of the Jew is expressly against the Christian, and the Mohammad“
against both." Sir Thoma: Brown. Religio Mi-

“1 am planed with contemplation: which trace Pioty to so pure and MN“
aomce; which show that good men have not been able to diﬂer so much from evil
otheras they imagined ; that amidst all the deviations of the underetandingﬁhebem‘
ﬂcent necessity of their nature lteepa alive the same sacred feelings."

Sir Jam Mark-intuit. LiquI. p. 123
Page-487
SYRIA AND ITS FAITH.

CHAPTER I.

ENTRANCE UPON THE HIGH LANDS 0F SYRIA.—NIMROD'S TOMB.—
FIELD OF DAMASCUS.—DAMASCUS AND ENVIRONS.—SOME CHA-

RACTERISTICS 0F MOHAMMEDANISM.——DAMASCUS AS A RESI-
DENCE.

Tn: ridge which hid Palestine from us was soon passed; and in the
same moment we found ourselves in a new country, with new thoughts.
and among a new people. On the shrubby hills which we passed over.
under the protection of the towering Djebel Sheikh, we found black-
thorn in blossom, just as it might be in England on the same day
(April 24th). We rode not far beneath the snow, when we had reached
a height equivalent to three-fourths of the height of the Antilibanus
range. which we had on our left hand; and for some miles we passed
among volcanic debris—among heaps of lava, and hillocks of burnt
stones, black and dreary. In the midst of these, in a grassy meadow.
lay a brimming pond, so perfectly round that the geologist of the party
pointed it out as probably the crater of an extinct volcano.—Then there
were upland plains—large table lands, half covered with ﬂocks, show-
ing that we had fairly entered upon the pastoral districts of the East.
The towns and villages did not crown the eminences. or nestle in the
valleys. as in Palestine; but were planted on the sides of the moun-
tain, or in its recesses, on shelves of rock. One or two of them were
exactly like a set of book-shelves, with houses for volumes: and their
gardens below were on a slope so steep that, if it had not bulged, it is
inconceivable how the soil could be retained. The houses were no
longer of stone, hewn or irregular, but of mud—-so smoothly plastered.
and so carefully squared in form, as to carry back our thoughts to Nu-
bia—these being exactly like those neat African huts, except that they
had no pyramidal inclination. The sound of waters was all about us.
Instead of the still pools and gentle springs of Palestine, we had here
a rush of waters on every hand. Artiﬁcial water-courses were above
us on the left hand, and below us on the right; our path was often
ﬂooded where the mountain streams burst, or overﬂowed their channels;
and more than one of the villages seemed almost made up of mills.—
Almost the only feature which was like Palestine was the caves of the
limestone rocks, with their wrought entrances. After we left the black
Page-488
486 nsnaN Lin.

volcanic débn's, we came upon fantastic white limestone hills, which
gave a curious yellow tint to the landscape, when they formed a fore-
ground to the snows of Djebel Sheikh.

As for the people—the herdsmen on these upland plains were much
like Arab herdsmen everywhere; but among the ﬁrst people we met
were two Druse women. The horn looked less monstrous than lhatl
expected; and these women were so handsomely dressed, and looked
so well, with their gold ornaments, down each side of the face under
the veil, that the impression made on us by the ﬁrst Druse women we
had seen was very favorable. Two pretty children were with them.
who returned my salutation with much grace. I used to salute(by
touching the forehead and breast) all the gray-haired people I met in
these mountains; and all the children and most others: and my stilt-
tation was, without a single exception, returned. It certainly pleased,
rather than displeased, the people; and it gave me a good opportunity
of seeing their faces. The horn appears to be the point of honor with
the Druse woman. as the beard is that of the Eastern man. When the
bride assumes the horn, and hangs the veil over it, she presents her
husband with a dagger, and desires him to kill her if she proves un-
faithful. The Druse woman rarely does prove unfaithful; but, in such
a case, the husband returns her'horn to her family without explanation:
and they know that the dagger has done its work, and that the wife
will be heard of no more.

As for the new thoughts that we plunged into. when we had passed
that ridge, they were such as, I suppose, occur naturally in this can?
ordinary country, where the diversity of faiths is greater than in any
land which the English traveler enters. In Egypt, there was but
one faith, during the ages on which our attention was ﬁxed through‘
out our Nile voyage. The Greeks and others derived gods from Egypt
but never added one to the Egyptian pantheon. In the Sinai penin‘
sula. we were concerned with only one; for there also. our interns“
were altogether in the past. In Palestine, we found the meeting-poi!“
of all the faiths of the ancient world—the reservoir into which ﬂowed
streams from all the heights of human thought; and we saw how, from
this reservoir, one came to send forth among men. purer waters of life
than had ever hitherto been dispensed. This gave a distinctiveness to
Palestine, among the homes of the Faiths, greater than Egypt or Sinai
could claim, inasmuch as the latest of these faiths was more ﬁt for uni'
versal adoption in the course of ages. Whether all were derived from
some primitive Ideas. we know not; nor can ever know but by not!
light being cast on early Egyptian history. That none were found to
suﬁice is proved by each having issued in some other; but each mark!
its own region of the East,as the birthplace of one of the leading faith!
of the world. We had now entered a country where no leading faith
had its origin,but where all are found at this day. existing in vigor,bﬂl
in conﬂict; and I, for one, had my mind eagerly awake to observe
their operation. There was no more repose now, as for some week!
past, on a familiar faith, whose origin and progress we could trace from
hill to hill, by valley, lake and river along our road. We could no
Page-489
NMOD’I won. 487

more trace the simple Christianity of Christ himself. in visiting his
haunts. but were entering upon the scene of an extraordinary congress
of Deities. brought together, not to form a pantheon, but by the accidents
of time. and the unsatisﬁed needs of human nature.

We began at the earliest date. Our resting-place. this ﬁrst night in
the Damascene territory. was at Nimrod’s Tomb. The very name
carried us back further in the world’s history than our imaginations
had traveled since we left‘Egypt. It is true, the Jews hold traditions
of Nimrod. which would make him live no longer ago than Abraham.
They say that Nimrod cast Abraham into the ﬁre for not worshiping
the sun ; but that Jehovah forbade the ﬂames to touch him, and brought
him into Canaan. But other traditions represent Nimrod as seceding
from the company who built Babel. in disgust at their immoralities.
This would make him much older than Abraham. At all events, in
the traditions of Nimrod. and in the remains of the ancient pyramidal
ﬁre altars which are scattered about the country, we have traces of the
earliest worship known to have been practised here. And this wor
ship is believed to exist still, in certain recesses of the Lebanon. The
worship of the sun. as direct and unmixed as it ever was at Baalbec or
at Samaria in Jezebel's days. is believed to be practised at this hour in
some retired places of the land we were now entering upon.-—Then.
there is the old Egyptian method, with a good deal of its doctrine. ex-
isting among the Druses. It is very diﬂicult to ascertain what their
faith and worship are, because they have mysteries, like the men of
old; and these mysteries are as well concealed as of old. Some
suppose them to hear about the same relation to the Mohammedans
as the Samaritans did to the Jews: and there may be among them
about as much of Egyptian philosophy and faith mixed with their Mo-
hammedanism as the Samaritans had of Assyrian faith and worship
incorporated with their Judaism. Their incarnate Messiah. Hakim.
(to whom there is an inscription in a mosque at Cairo as the Supreme
God.) may contain some Jewish and some Christian elements: but. the
division of castes. and the practices oftheir mysteries among the Dru-es.
remind one strongly of the old Egyptians :—and yet the Druses are an
oﬂ'set from Mohammedsnism.—There are Jews.—a very fem—much
like what the oriental Jews of these days usually are.—Then there
are Christians of many sorts; and all so unlike anything that the
biographers of Christ could have conceived of, that. but for the lights
of history, it would be a wonder how they ever came by the name.
Besides the ordinary Greek and Latin Christians, Armenians and Nes-
torians, there are the Maronites; a curious kind of Christians. who. at
one and the same time, practice monachism to an extraordinary extent.
and preserve the old oriental Law of Revenge. They read the Paaller.
and two or three puzzling books on Divinity.—Thomas Aquinas being
their favorite author; and. for the rest. though they are in communion
with Rome. they are nearly independent in their proceedings under
their own patriarch. and present as barbarous a phase of Christianity
as can anywhere be found.—Outnumbering all these religious bodies
together, are, of course, the Mohammedans,—the most interesting oﬂ-
Page-490
488 Imam.

set from Christianity that has yet been seen : not only from the den-in
tion and history of the faith, but because its prevalence.-—widerth
that of any other faith.—(or any other familiarly known to at»)—
shows what must be its adaptation to human nature, and. in thattlm
indispensable must be its appearance in the history of mam—Here in
diversity of faiths. in this region which has originated none! hint
of an inﬂux of thought from various regions. issuing in a freshll
invigorating faith. we have here a cluster of religious sects. none on.
municatirtg with any others. and none. therefore. deriving life from In!
new source. From the worship of Baal and Astarte to the ritualtf
Mohammed, all exist still: and we have only to rejoice that a reli—
l0 good. in comparison with the rest. as that of Mohammad, ptﬂi
over the others to the extent that it does.

This latest and most prevalent faith seemed almost too modern It
be attended to this ﬁrst day, when. with every advance into the MI!
of this awful old mountain region.—this Antilibanus. of which we and
to read in our childhood almost as of the world before the ﬂood, "
seemed to be stepping over into the remote ages. Ascending from all
table-land to another. we came out. late in the afternoon.I upon V3!
high ground. where the soil was wet. the crops poor. the wind my
cold. and the enclosing mountains dim and dreary with haze and sat"-
As I repeatedly turned my horse to look behind me and to the lefl.‘if
impression of what I saw was very awe-striking. Djebel Shelli-
whose snowy summit had appeared sky-high all the way from“?
further verge of the Plain of Esdraélon. now seemed to have snbsttltstl
to a common hill; so did the chain rise and swell as it retired noﬂh'
eastward. Shrouded and ghost-like, the mountains closed us in: and “
as I gazed at them. I longed to look into their hidden valleys and R‘
ceases. to see how human faith was faring2—to see the shrines of Bill-
and the smoke of his altars among the rocks; to hear from some plat"
form on the heights, the bell of the Maronite convent chapel :—to look
in upon the vigils of the Druses, as their initiated class. the lntellt- .
gents. held the mysteries; and to see, in some Mohammedan villag!
on the uplands. the pious families already in preparation for join"?! 5
the next caravan. when it should set forth from Damascus for Mekkeh.
The mountain chains of the earth retain in every way their eonsem‘ 3
tive function. If they preserve untouched and unwasted their mass“
of mineral wealth. their treasure of gems, their accumulated snow I
and the nnsunned sources of all rivers. not less do they harbor
guard the characteristics of the tribes of men, and their conﬁdingde‘
posits of their respective faiths.

We stopped on a ridge, misty and cold. where there is a poor it!"
let beside N imrod's Tomb. The great Hunter. said to be the ﬁrst 8"
men who was made a king and wore a crown. is declared to be 5
lying under some stones. about three hundred yards from our tent!-
This is doubtless quite as true as that a building close at hand. Who”
ruined walls are composed of very large stones. in Nimrod’s 015“"
It appears that the tradition about the tomb is really old; and th!‘
ruins which have lost their names are all called after the tombs-Th”
Page-491
~ silt.» or means. 400

hamlet is Kferhoura. Its situation is bleak: but there are two little
fertile dells on either side of the ridge; and the people seemed to be
tilling their ﬁelds with care and success. The evening was so cold
that we should have been glad of a ﬁre in our tent: but there was no
more charcoal left than would be wanted to boil the kettle in the morn-
ing. All night. the wind was high: and the servants were kept from
their rest, knocking in the tent-pegs, that our whole establishment
might not ﬂy away.

On the 3d of December. it had been pro need, on board our Nile
boat, and agreed to nem. can. that we shou d go to Damascus. And
now. on the morning of the 25th of April. we were within a few miles
of it. Nothing could be less like our notions of Damascus and its
climate than the spot we were on. It was far more like Westmore-
land in March; and my heart warmed to it for that reason. in spite of
the cold gusts. which brought mists and ﬂying showers upon us from
the mountains. Mrs. Y. and I sat under a rock and an umbrella.
reading about the Druses, while the tents were struck :—quite a new
piece of oriental experience! There was, however, such a rainbow
as I suppose was never seen in Westmoreland,——ﬁrst inclosing a group
of mountains. and then confounding their outlines with its colors.—
We descended considerably to the Field of Damascus.-—the plain
amidst which the city is placed; but still it was evident that this plain
itself is high ground. in comparison with the Valley of the Jordan.
The wind was so strong. and blew so incessantly, that we could not
have traveled at all. if it had not been in our backs.

This Field of Damascus is very striking :—a plain of yellowish soil.
scantily tilled. or. at leash-showing Io-day very scanty crops; with
bushes and low trees sprinkled here and there. and many streams
crossing the track; and the whole plain closed in by many-tinted moun-
tains. of which Lebanon is the crown. Far away. at three hours’
journey from the hills we descended. a black stripe lay straight across
the plain. which. as we approached, assumed more and more the ap-
pearance of whatit really was. a “ verdurous wall of Paradise.” Above
the great mass of verdure, sprang the loftiest poplars I ever saw; and
when we came within a few miles, the pale minarets appeared above
the woods. in rivalship with the dark poplars. Embosomed in these
woods lies Damascus.

On our way. we saw the Mirage in great perfection. If I had not
known what the plain really contained. I should have been completely
deceived: and. as it was,I was perplexed about what was real and
what mere semblance. Before us was a wide gleaming lake. with
wooded shores. It was these shores that perplexed me; forl could
allow for the water. As we approached. the vision ﬂaked away. and
formed again behind us; only, the waters hehind looked gray and dark.
whereas they were gleamy when in front. The woods on the shore
resolved themselves into scrubby hushes.—the hiding places. one might
suppose. ofnaughty little mocking elves. There is something unpleasant
and disheartening in the sensation of the dissolution of a vivid mirage.
even when one is not in want of water and shade. It gives one a
Page-492
490 nuns Lm.

strange impression that one must be ill: and when this is added ted:
real suﬂ'eriug of the wayfarer in the Desert. the misery must be crud.

After riding three hours over this plain. and approaching the line of
vsrdure so near as to see yellow walls and towers within the m
Giuseppe told me we were at Damascus. I was rather disappointed: ‘
for I had read of the thirty miles of verdure and woods amidst which
the city stands. and I had expected much from the ride among the trees-
The walls turned out to be those of a village; and I soon discovered
that Giuseppe called the woods Damascus. as well as the city. Wt
rode on still for two hours, along green tracks. past gravel pits and
verdant hollows, round villages, through cemeteries. under the shndeni
glorious groves! It is truly a paradise. The ﬁelds and orchards m
one;—a thing Inever saw elsewhere. Out of thick crops of what
and barley and beans rise fruit and forest trees. which do not seem It
injure the vegetation below with their shade. The abundant groltlt
of the walnut exceeds that of any one tree I ever saw. unless it be the ‘
apple in the United States. We found that, besides exporting a gut!
quantity of walnuts, a large proportion of the people make them their
chief food, eating them as the Spaniards do chestnuts.—I saw a vine
hanging out its young leaves and tendrils from a walnut. at least thirty
feet from the ground. The citron perfumes the air for many mild
round the city; and the ﬁg trees are of vast size. The pomegranate
and orange grow in thickets. There is the trickling of water on every
hand. Wherever you go, there is a trotting brook. or a full and silent
stream beside the track; and you have frequently to cross from one
Vivid green meadow to another, by fording, or by little bridges. Tilt-'59
streams are all from the river beloved by Naaman of old. He mtglll
well ask whether the Jordan was better than Pharpar and Abauly‘he
rivers of Damascus. These streams. the old Pharpar and Abuse
join a little way from the city. and are called the Barrada. The
waters are carried in innumerable channels over the whole ﬁeld of
verdure; they again unite in a single stream, which is lost in a lake 0'
swamp called the Lake of the Meadow.

It was not easy to mistake the city walls when at last we came”
them. They are rather high. but not so as entirely to exclude the
view of the cupolas and minarets within. There are many tower!
upon the walls; but they are. for the most part. decapitated. We rode
round at least half the city. as we were to enter by the eastern gm-
It was something to remember that this is the oldest known city in {be
world. Abraham's steward came from Damascus. the man in the only
being mentioned in Genesis XV. 2. From its beauty and value.“
has in all ages been an object of contention; but whenever shattered
by siege-s and foes, it has risen again; and here it is still. one of the
gems of the earth. By this. no one means that its beauty is in It!
streets. Nothing can well be more ugly than they are,'with their long
lines of black yellow walls, unbroken but by a low ordinary door.
here and there :—and the pavement is bad; though not so execrable Is
that of Jerusalem. There are few ediﬁces which can be favorably
seen within the walls; so that the charm of Damascus is not of ti!“
Page-493
caucus an m smarts. 491

kind which we usually mean when we praise a city for beauty. The
interior of its best houses is exquisite; and the bazaars are ﬁner than
those of Cairo. and, as I am told, than those of Constantinople. But
the glory of El Sham, (as the Arabs call this beloved city of theirs.)
is in its position, which truly warrants all the raptures of all ages,
from the time when Abraham made Eliezer of Damascus his steward,
till now.

Adjoining the gate by which we entered is a walled'up portal, with
two arches, now ﬁlled with masonry. This is the gate by which Paul
entered Damascus: and the street by which we went from this entrance
to our hotel, without a turn to the right or the left, is still called
“ Straight." In a street to the right of this, as you enter the city. is
shown the house which is pretended to be that of Ananias; and in a
niche of a chamber therein is the apostle said to have received his
sight.—-ln the city wall is shown the aperture through which he was
let down in a basket: and there is a tomb in the cemetery outside the
eastern gate, which was pointed out to us as that of Gorgias, the soldier
rho, according to tradition, connived at Paul's escape, and was martyred

or it.

As we rode through the long street to our hotel, we saw the people
busy in bazaars which looked light and airy. They were selling fruit
and vegetables, making clothes. and a large quantity of baskets. The
people were everywhere civil to us. We should have looked for this
civility as belonging to the manners of a capital city, but that the
Mohammedans of Damascus have a character for savage and cruel
bigotry, which certainly seems justiﬁed by their occasional persecutions
of the Lawn—persecutions unequaled in harbarity in our times. On
arriving at the Italian hotel, we met two of our Desert comrades; and
one of them kindly gave up his apartment to Mrs. Y. and me, as he
was to depart the nextday. This Italian hotel has been much vaunted
by some visitors to Damascus; and it was ludicrous to read on the spot
the descriptions with which English readers have been supplied of the
court-yard and apartments of this hotel. As for the court yard, we saw
no inlaid marbles. mosaic pavements, jets of murmuring fountains, gold
ﬁsh, and fragrant orange trees; but instead of these, we found rude
stone pavements. plaster walls daubed with red and blue: 3 deewin
somewhat repulsive in aspect. and two or three fig-trees. and some
pinks coming into ﬂower about the tank. As for the apartments. that
which was in kindness given up to us in exchange for a worse, was so
perilously damp. and infested with beetles, that we refused to sleep in
it a second night: and ﬁve snails were found in their slime under one
of the beds. It is not right in travelers to romance about such houses
as these, whether they be in the East or elsewhere: for future comers
suﬂ'er by the complacency or indolence of the proprietor, thus induced.
By remonstrance, we obtained better chambers: but the table is not to
be praised: and there is no reason why it should not be good in a
place so amply supplied with provisions as Damascus.

We saw more of the bazaars at Damascus than in any other city of
our travels; the whole party having to make purchases for friends at
Page-494
4” sum. ma.

home. The goldsrniths’ bazaar was one of the most intending—II
from the quality of the jewelry. but from the picturesque ﬁgural
the workers, bending their turbaaed bends over the blow-pipeeﬁath's
little dim shops.—The alleys where galloon weaving and silk-db
making,.and the manufacture of slippers, were carried on. werersy
attractive. from the number of children employed. The little but
weaving and shoemaking. were extremely industrious. They append
to put their “Arab intensity" into their work. young as- they in
Sometimes. in curious contrast. a dealer of graver years would he at!
fast asleep in the next shop. his head laid back on a comfortable pill-1
of goods, and hie whole stock open to the attacks of any one whoehvn
to Mesh—The prettiest sight in connection with the bazaars was via
a net was drawn over the front of the shop. to indicate that the on!
was at prayers. Of course. theft would be perfectly easy during-ti
an interval: butwe were assured that it never happens: and porch!“
wait, without any repiniug. for the re-appearance of the pious tntb
Iran.

I was altogether disappointed in the silk goods of Damascus. In?
very few articles that I thought pretty, more or less, though the faint i
was substantial enough. There was a vulgarity about the patterns.—
especially about those which were the most costly.—which pel'pltl'lca
me till I learned the secret. The famous old Damascus patterns.1b
inheritance of centuries. and of which every Damaseene is proud. hi" i
been imitated by our Manchester manufacturers. so as to become til"
familiar to English eyes. The eﬁ'ect of this in Damascus is com“
The inhabitants import our cotton goods largely: and when they '9'
their own patterns again. the gentlemen think they look as well :5th
own heavy silks; and they make their wives wear them in staid?
greatly to the discontent of the ladies. The saving to the Datum
husbands is very great; as indeed it must be. if we consider the cost?‘
dressing a dozen women in one house.—wives and handmaidsr"
such costly articles as the heavy silks of Damascus.—For_my own 1““
I would rather wear Manchester cottons. The dresses of Damsswl ”ll
have no variety. and the scarves are stiff and comment—Perfume!“
sold, very largely. Some of our party bought attar-of-roses and admit"
tion of sandal-wood. which. however, presently lost its scent—Tl"
gentlemen looked at daggers and scimitars: but the blades of Dam
are not what they were; and I believe there was nothing very not-it
about these arms.

By the kindness of a resident who. as a physician. has freer 30°"
to families than any other gentleman could obtain. we saw the imam
of several handsome houses. They were truly beautiful,—with “'9‘
marble courts. fountains. thickets of orange plants and other shrubiu
their lofty, cool. luxurious apartments.-In the house of a '91le
Christian gentleman. we saw several ladies. some Jewesses being 0'"
visit at the same time. The dress of these Jewesses was superb. 1'
addition to the colored muslins. gold embroidery and handsome shl'l’
round the waist, which all the ladies had, these Jewesses wore a P”
fusion of diamonds. Their heads were entirely covered with um“
Page-495
Dumas m as “mass. 49!

ﬂowers and clusters of diamonds. inserted in a close-ﬁtting sillr net.
The painting of the eyes is somewhat deforming, as unnatural arts
always are: but it is less hideous than the painting of the eyebrows.
'By association of ideas, a junction of the eyebrows gives to us an im‘
pression of intense thought: and nothing can be more disagreeably
absurd than to see this artificial thoughtful frown on the excessively
silly and inane face of an Eastern woman. They pull out the hair of
their eyebrows, and paint a dark stripe straight across.—-Their health
is bad, of course, as they have no exercise but shufﬂing over their mar-
ble pavements in splendid pattens. Their English physician has car-
ried one important point in inducing some families to go annually for
change to distant villages, where before they never went but on occa-
sions'of serious illness. '

In one house that we visited, the eldest daughter. always jovial. and
now not the less so for having been recently divorced, sat down beside
me, and laughed with the delight of having visitors. She examined
my clothes, stroking me and nodding; but ﬁxed at last upon my gloves.
After trying long and in vain to put them upon her enormous hands,
she took my hands,.to stroke them and laugh at the nails. She wanted
me to admire here, which were all dyed black; but they were too much
as if they had all been pinched in the door. How all sympathy and
sorrow about this lady’s divorce evaporated during such intercourse, I
need not say.—-We saw several times the celebrated Esther, the Jew-
ess. and her lover ;—the pair who are ever anxiously supposing that
our House of Lords is occupied in granting thellady a divorce from her
insane husband. Esther’s case is really a hard one. While she sees
divorces going on all round her. whenever desired, she cannot be set
free from her insane husband. because she happens to he a British sub-
ject. Some kind-hearted but injudicious English travelers, who were
really interested in Esther’s case, led her to expect a decree of divorce
from England; and she and her lover, who would not interest us on
any other account whatever, are-constantly in expectation of being able
to marry. Esther has been written of as the beautiful Jewesa of Da-
mascus. I suppose she would generally be considered handsome; but
I saw several faces which pleased me more.

The British Vice-Consul invited us to dinner; and gave us a specta-
cle which we shall long remember. He invited the Jewish ladies l
have mentioned. and some others; and several native Christian ladies.
whose dress and manners are, for the most part, like those of their Mo-
hammedan neighbors, except that they are not shut up in theharaem.
The native wife of the French Consul was also there; and the gentle-
man and lady of the American Mission ; and many besides.—The Vice-
Consul and the physician! have mentioned live together; and they
have one of the best houses in Damascus : and therefore, one of the '
most beautiful. for its size, in the world. At dinner, there were four
guests besides our own party. The table was covered. very elegantly,
with ﬂowers and the dessert; and the dinner was handed round. 1
hand of Turkish musicians was in one corner of the apartment: but
they played so excessively load that they were presently sent to amuse
Page-496
494 lama! ms.

the native ladies, who were arriving, and awaiting us in the alcoves!
the court.

Our hosts had promised that we should see the celebrated sword-
dance performed by their guests; and this was the great ob'ect of tho
evening, though it was no small advantage to see a party of amateur
gentry assembled in this manner. When we adjourned from the dia-
ing room to the alcove, we found the deewins occupied by long ml
of ladies, dressed in the extraordinary style of which our gentlemen
friends had seen less than we had. Some gentlemen who are not easily
discoucerted, looked very awkward and shy when seated in a long m.
on chairs and stools. immediately opposite the array of eastern belles
These ladies whispered to each other, laughed and looked about them.
Esther and her lover giggled and ﬂirted in a corner. The America
lady went about with cheerful courtesy from one to another: and our
hosts were everywhere. Still, all was so dull that I began anxiously
to hope for the sword-dance. Time went on. and we heard nothing at
it. A tray was brought, and set down in the middle of the alcove.
with cucumbers. fruits. wine and snatch—excessively strong. Some
of the ladies took up each a cucumber, and ate it, rind and all. swal-
lowing after it some snack, to promote its digestion. I am assured
that ladies will sometimes eat three cucumbers in succession. in Ihil
way, with a glass of arrack to each.—A pause followed, broken only
by a gust of wind which blew out some of the candles, and brought:
few drops of rain, which sent us into the house. Then I supposed It
were to have the sword-dance: but one of my companions told he
privately that it was not to take place, and advised me to ask no expla-
nation at present.

In the line apartment we had entered, there was a repetition of the
scene in the alcove :—music, whispering and giggling ; cucumbers and
arrack :—there were also excellent coﬂ‘ee and ice creams for us Euro-
peans. In about another hour, the native ladies left their soul.
crowded together, drew their veils about them, and departed: and It
went away with the last of them—When we reached home, I follll
there had been a scene behind the curtain, and that it was very well
that the evening had passed 06' so quietly as it did. As far as"
could understand the matter,—bnt it was never quite clear to us.—the
case was this. During the dreadful rsecution of the Jews at Dunl-
cus, a few years since, the French oaaul was believed to have been
their enemy, and to have aggravated their suﬁ'erings. When the Jes-
ish ladies found his lady this evening at the Consul's, they and their
Christian friends were hurrying away again. in great wrath. when on!
host the physician went to them. and rempnstraled, telling them sits!
a fatal insult their departure in this manner would be to their host. tll‘
Vice-Consul. On this representation they consented to stay, but stipu-
lated that they should not be asked to dance, or amuse themselves ll
any way.—The part of the story which we could not understand so
why these women fell into such wrath against the French Con-Il'l
lady this particular evening. when we had seen them meet in a non-
Page-497
cannons-res. 4%

ing visit without any demonstration of ill-will. There must be more
in the matter than we comprehended. no doubt.

As for the persecution to which this story relates—there is no part
of the world—or of the civilized world, at least—where the traveler
can go. without coming upon the traces of religious persecution. He
ﬁnds it in Massachusetts and in England; in Germany and Egypt; at
Jerusalem and at Damascus. Nowhere can men leave other men free
in regard to matters of Opinion. In countries like ours, where the
laws forbid aggression on life, property and outward liberty. on ac-
count of matters of Opinion, it is common to say that there is no per-
secution: but it is no more possible in England and Germany than it
ever was in Spain or Italy, for men to hold the diversity of opinions
which men were made to hold without being the worse for it, in repu-
tation and peace of mind, if not in liberty and property. I am not
speaking of this now as a matter of censure, but as a curious matter of
fact. There could not be so universal a tendency to intolerance with-
out some overwhelming reason for it :-—some cause deep-seated in htt-
man nature, or stringently operative in human circumstances. Be-
sides the causes which lie deep in human nature—the need of sympa-
thy, the love of repose upon convictions. the pride which is usually
more or less implicated in our judgments, and the partial view which
men inevitably take of every subject upon which their minds are not
in suspense ;—besidcs all these causes of dislike to adverse opinions,
there is almost universally prevalent, an idea of danger, spiritual dan-
ger, incurred by the holding of any opinions but those which the par-
ties respectively believe to be right. It is only a man here and there
who knows, and acts upon the knowledge, that the greatest safety in
the universe is in truth; and that the most direct path to safety is in
the pursuit of truth. And perhaps it is even more rare still to meet
with one who sees that all genuine faith is—other circumstances being
the same—of about equal value. The value is in the act of faith, more
than in the object; as is shown by the glorious men who have lived
under every system of religious faith, and the bad men who have
ﬂourished equally under the worst and under what we are accustomed
to consider the best. Of course, it is of very high importance that the
objects of faith shodld be the loftiest and the purest that, in any par-
ticular age, can be attained. A noble-minded man cannot take up with
a low superstition when a higher system of faith is open to him : or he
will suﬁ‘er spiritually if he does: but he may be as noble in the the-
rough devotion of his faculties to the highest abstraction of his time as
a successor may be under a higher abstraction of a later time. His
need and his prerogative are to exercise his highest faculties in faith
and obedience, and to gratify the best part of his nature by the con-
templation and attainment of “the beauty of holiness,” whatever be
the names which he and others give to the Ideas which are the guid-
ing stars of his life. An Egyptian of 6000 years ago might attain as
lofty a moral state by living in obedience to that highest conception to
which he gave the name of Amun or Osiris.” a Jew of similar nature
and powers who devoted himself to the same loftieet ideas under the
Page-498
name of Jehovah. And thus again.a Jew who was of too loftyamiﬂ
to live in a spirit of fear towards the “ Jealous God" of whom l7-
lower brethren conceived. might,‘ in his spirit of faith and obedience.
penetrate through the apparatus of sacriﬁces anti a preceptive lama
as clear a View, and as hearty an allegiance to the Father of all uses.
as a Christian could reach in a subsequent age. The polytheiemsl
Egypt was a low state of religion for the mass of men ; but it did not
and could not. preclude the spiritual elevation of individuals. Tb:
Mosaic Law and ritual were a low stage for the bulk of the Jewi
people. in comparison with what has existed since; but it did not pve
elude the utmost spiritual loftiness of individual men. The Christi:
religion. corrupted as it has been. has resembled but too much a my-
thology of which Judaism would have been ashamed. and has fallea
short of its purpose accordingly.in its operation on the masses of men:
but no one will deny that there have been men belonging to the Chart!
in its darkest times whom the purest times of Christianity might have
owned. And so on. through all the faiths of mankind. The case be
ing so. men aﬁlict themselves needlessly about one 'another‘s safety. as
regards points of spiritual belief. We may and must wish. for the
sake of men at large. that mankind should conceive of God as a F:-
ther, rather than as a King; as just and merciful. rather than as jealou
and vindictive : but it is not for us to mistrust any human brother. is
suppose that his best powers may not work out his highest good with-
out his ideas being exactly correspondent with our own. Instead ai
this trust, however—a trust which faith. love, and humility alike re-
quire—we assume that a belief which differs from our own must brig
forth bad results. be the qualities of the holder what they may: and
then we naturally proceed the one step further, and conclude that those ‘
bad results have been brought forth. The Jew would think Socrates
an idolater; as the Athenians believed him, in the worst meaning of
the term, an atheist. The Christian cannot make out the Jew to be
either idolater or atheist; but he imputes to him a constant active hatred
to Jesus, because he still looks for the Messiah to come. The Mo-
hammedan, judging of Christianity by what he sees in the Greek and
Iatin churches, regards all Christians as idolaters on the one hand,and
inﬁdels on the other. He holds with a well-grounded zeal to the mo
notheism which he tees to be lost from the Christianity that is before
his eyes; and to the spiritualism of his faith, which excludes a priest.
hood; and by that exclusion, maintains its vital power. The hatred
with which he regards the Christian is as virulent as might be ex-
pected from his imputing to him at once both kinds of error—idolatry
in worshiping three gods and a multitude of saints, and inﬁdelity in
denying the greatest and chief Prophet of God. “ These damned
Christian inﬁdels" is the description of all of us who go to the East,
from the Bishop of Jerusalem to the cabin-boy of a ship. As imputa~
tion follows prejudice in a natural course, the Jew believes that the
Bun-worshipers of the Lebanon revel in obscene rites. and are in alli-
ance with devils :—the Christian believes that the Jews crucify a child
every Passion-week: aud‘the Mohammedan believes that the Christian
Page-499
Imam. 4W

wantonlysports with damnation by reviling the Prophet. and rebels
against God by upholding the doctrine of free-will—-being thus twice
over an outcast through inﬁdelity. There was something painful, yet
salutary, in witnessing in the Eastthese mere exaggerations of our own
ways of regarding one another at home. When we witnessed the
vindictive wrath of the Jews against their usurpin and tyrannical
neighbors—and when our monk-guide at Nazareth to d us. in all ears
nestness. that the Jews had cruciﬁed a child in the Holy Week just
passed—and when we were insulted and reviled by the Faithful, and
were in the very places where they lately tortured the Jews with tor-
meats too horrible to be written down, I took the lesson home, and
devoutly resolved upon two things:—never to hold back from declar-
ing what I believe to be the truth; and never to assume as facts the
worst results which may proceed from what I believe to be error.
While we see so many men who fall below the quality of their pro-
fessed faith, and; happily. so many also who rise far above it. it is
surely wisest. in the ﬁrst place. to judge men as little as possible. andt
in the next, to judge of them. where we must. by their individual pow-
ers and qualities, and not by the philosophy of the faith they hold.
This is only saying. in other words, that we are to know men by their
fruits: but. long as this mode of judgment has been commended to
mankind, we seem to need to be reminded of it as much as ever; as
much perhaps in our English homes and associations as the Christians
at Nazareth; and the Mohammedans at Damascus. who punish the
Jews, not for anything they have actually done, but for what a hostile
imagination and a logical course of reasoning indicate that they might
have done.

The subordination of Christianity to Mohammedanism in the East
is a curious spectacle, from its novelty. to travelers from a Christian
country. It is impossible to quarrel with the fact on the spot; not
only because it is obviously absurd to quarrel with a fact of such mag-
nitude and import. but because it is plain to every unprejudiced eye
that the fact ought to be what it is. The Mohammedan not only
knows that his faith includes a larger proportion of mankind than any
other, so as to make even Christendom look insigniﬁcant beside it, but
he reasonably regards Mohammedanism as the reformed faith which
raises men above any elevation they could reach by Christianity. See-
ing Christianity as he sees it, chieﬂy in the Greek church. this belief
is reasonable. He may well think it a great advance upon the religion
of the Greek church for men to worship One God; a God really and
truly One, without subterfuge. or those metaphysical multiplications
which he knows to have constituted the idolatry of the East. He may
well think it a great advance upon the worship of the Greek church to
have no priesthood intruding between God and his Maker. He feels
himself to be irrefragably right in his solution of the great diﬁiculty
which lies at the bottom of all theological diﬂ'erenees,—or rather in his
conclusion about the Existence of Evil ;—for solution there is none:
nor is there any indication ‘that there ever can be. The Predestina-
riaa doctrine of the Mohammedan is thestrong point of his religion, as

32