
Page-500
498 amass ms.

the necessarily imperfect adoption of the Free-will doctrine oft}:
modern Christian church is its weak point. With all this strength-
the side of Mohammedanism. in contrast with the abased conditions
Christianity in the East. it can be no wonder that the more moths
faitlt prevails immeasurably in proportion to the more ancient andviieiy-
corrupted belief. Even to us of the western world, who most new
larily be insensible to its aﬂinities with Eastern thought, and minim?
to Eastern habits of feeling and of life. there is abundant reason an?
rent why Mohammedanism should have spread and taken root 2
widely and deeply as it has done. And to us of the western radii
must be clearer than to the people of the East. why Mohammedan!
cannot always endure, however long it may yet serve the needle”
believers. ‘
The fatal imperfection of Mohammedanism appears to be its up
posing Law, made known by precept. to be as positive, that is. as tub
revealed. in Morals as in physical Nature. In Mohammedanismillm
is not the slightest conception of a religion of Principles. Fact :84
positive precept are all that Mohammedanism contemplates ; and that
are not enough for a religion which is to endure. The Prophet”
honest and sound-minded in excluding miracles from his schem-
Marvels are too familiar in the East, too natural in their occurrence.‘t
be needed as an evidence there; and the Prophet was as well an!
as we are that even if they were an evidence of physical power of t.
preternatural order, they could not possibly be an evidence of umber ‘
doctrine. The powers attributed to devils and false prophets hi ‘
always decided this matter in the East. And Mohammed was hot!!! ‘
and sound-minded in rejecting a priesthood, or any other interventtot 1
between men and God. This strong poittt he probably took from \
Christianity ;—the Mohammedan traditions of Christianity relatingr k‘
a time prior to the fatal institution of a priesthood. But Mohamm'd
was no philosopher. any there than he was an impostor. He hadll!‘
strongest and most deﬁnite notions of the dttty and wisdom of shed“
obedience to the immutable Will of God: but he had no idea of that }
will being communicated in any other way than by a collection 0/
precepts. and by the unmistakeable language of events. Of the gown?
ing power of Principles. he never formed any conception. He n8!“
recognized them at all as guiding and governing powers ;—as that void
'of God which Christianity assumes them to be. It may be true lb“
“ Arab intensity."—the passionate nature of the Orientals which 11'ka
them in so far children.—necessitated the oifer of a preceptive religlo!‘
as the similar temperament of the Hebrews had before done in the"
case: but a religion appropriate to children can never be permanent and
universal. It may last very long and spread very widely stillr-
wherever, and as long as, there are tribes of a childish cast or bib“ of
mind in Asia and Africa: but it cannot serve the purposes of the WW8
race: and herein lies the inestimable superiority of Christianity?“
the Christianity of Jesus himself. The whole purpose and scope of
his teaching were to imbue men with the spirit of faith and moral" to
detach them from farms and preceptive guidance, and introduce ”If“
Page-501
lonutllnatusl. 499

to the prerogative of their own reason, conscience, faith and aﬂ'ections.
While Mohammedanism appealed but partially to the strength of the
human soul.—lo its courage. patience, and obedience. (being lax to its
indolence. both intellectual and spiritual,) Christianity appealed to all
its powers, and put it in its own charge,—setting all things. in earth
and heaven. within its reach. on condition of the exertion of all its

owers. Mohammed gave endless instructions to men what to do.

at He who so well knew what was in man, knew that men can do
any thing that they see: and Christianity. therefore, gives the light, in-
stead of oﬁ‘ering a hand to guide men through the dark. It gives the
light, calling upon men to ﬁnd, train, and exercise their powers of
sight.

Most miserably, however, has Christianity surrendered this life-giving

inﬂuence here in the presence of Mohammedanism. We went to visit
the Greek Patriarch and his chapel and new church. How much
more Christian do the mosques look in their simplicity. than these idola-
trous Greek churches with their profane mythological pictures, and
their multitudinous rites and Observances! In this church we saw a
very ﬁne carved screen, half of which Is spoiled by gilding. which Is
to extend over the whole when it is ﬁnished. The carving is very ﬁne,
and most elaborate: and yet the whole screen, extending completely
across the church, costs only 1201. The Patriarch. a white-bearded
man of seventy-eight. of the commonest aspect, was in a state of high
delight, which he expressed with a very innocent glee, at the reception
he had met with in his recent progress round his diocese. He told us
that the people came out in crowds to carry him into their towns: a
treatment very unlike that which he will ever meet with in Damascus,
where the Mohammedans invent tortures for Jews. It is curious
how the Predestinarians of the world have followed one another—as
here the Mohammedans have followed the Pharisees—in punishing ad-
verse opinion more severely than immoral conduct. Hence, no doubt.
has arisen the bad character of the Mohammedans as spreading their
religion by the sword. Their Prophet did not desire or contemplate
this, but used only reason and persuasion during the greater (part of his
course, being driven to the use of the sword at last, after a urstion of
meeltness and patience quite wonderful in an Arab of the Desert. The
charge of proselyting by violence appears to Eastern travelers as mis-
placed in regard to the Prophet and his original faith as that of sensual-
ism. One needs but to travel in Mohammedan countries to take a quite
ditl'erentview from the popular European one of these matters. While
it is true, and honorably true, of Mohammedanism, that it respects,
more than any other religion, the natural instincts of man, it is no less
true that it ordains much asceticism, and that it has ever operated as a
check upon sensualism, rather than as a sanction to it. There are de-
vout ascetica, mystics. temperate men and proﬂigates, as there are under
all faiths, from Buddhism to Quakerism: but the operation of Moham-
medanism Is in favor of temperance—place, time and circumstances of
its institution being considered.

One of the most aﬂ'ecting sights to us in Damascus was that of the
Page-502
500 sass-nu use.

ancient Christian cathedral converted into a mosque. We could not
enter it. but we daily looked into it from the balaars. Its court to
large, light and airy, adorned with Corinthian pillars. and with square
of marble mosaic. What more we saw of it was by climbing up tot
house-top by ladders. to view what remains of its grand entrance. Tit!
remnant of early Christian zeal looks mournful enough. The rid:
pediment and pillars—the pedirnent shattered, and three of the six pil-
lars decapitated—are hidden and almost lost among sordid Arab dwell-
ings; and the Christian is excluded from courts which were built and
adorned by Christian hands.

There is a place, two miles from Damascus, which is visited by
people of all the three faiths—Jobah. declared. and reasonably, l0 5'
the place indicated in Genesis XIV. 15, as Hobah, whither Abraham
went in pursuit of Lot, who had been carried away :—“ unto Hobah-
which is on the leftside of Damascus." Iown that one chief interest
of Damascus and its environs is in their undisputed antiquity. Toll!
synagogue at Jobah, however, another interest pertains. It is belieml
by the Jews that the Law was preserved here when Titus besiegﬂl
Jerusalem ; and there are now thirty-six copies of the Law there wind
are considered very valuable. On the ﬂoor of this synagogue is show
a space railed in, to commemorate a deed which we should all be gill
to forget—whether it be fact or mere imputation! The spot issaul
(but no one believes it) to be that where Elisha anointed Haziel Kilt
of Syria. We were next taken down, by four or ﬁve steps, to a V"! ‘
small grotto. where, as we were assured. Elijah was fed by ravens“
there having once been a window through which the birds could With
him.

The house of Naaman is shown: but our friends advised us not!»
go. It is converted into a Christian Leper Hospital; and there is 1M"
useless pain in visiting it than the occasion is worth. Dr. T-! ll”
physician, told me that the lepers are chieﬂy scrofulous subjects; and
that damp and poor diet are the great disposing causes of leprosy. Tl”
disease is not found to be contagious. no instances being known of )5
sﬂ'ecting those who dress the sores of the patients. In the young. nr ‘
eipient leprosy may often be combated: but for adults, nothing cattl‘c ‘
done beyond alleviation. They suffer much and long, usually dymt
of tubercular or related diseases, at last. ltcertaialy a pears, however.
that this is one of the diseases destined to die out no er the spread of
civilization. ' t

In the course of our rides, we were repeatedly conducted by 0‘“
hospitable friends to the Cafés in the environs, which are so celebra
wherever Damascus is heard of. How astonished our families at ho!!!e
would have been to see us in a magic glass at such seasons of refreSh'
ment! They would have seen us sitting under a trellise of vinesv"r
round a reservoir, with a row of nargeelehs before us. and coffee ’
ices at hand ;—a brook. containing the waters of the old Pharplf:
ﬂowing into the garden, among plots of vegetables and thickets of [roll

' 2 Kings Vlll. 7—15.
Page-503
sauces. 501

trees, whose boughs were bending and cracking with the weight of
their produce. 'I‘wigs of a plum-tree. thickly studded with green
fruit, were offered to us, to carry away; and the stem of my chibouque
was one day embossed with fresh-gathered roses. The Cafés within
the city, where the people go to smoke and talk. are very inferior to
those in the environs. They are too much trodden. and too town-like;
and the wooden platforms are sordid. But all are blessed with running
waters and the shade of trees; and all aﬁ'ord exquisite pictures of
grouped ﬁgures to the eye of the passing stranger.

Our rides were always charming,—the green tracks winding among
orchards and ﬁelds. coming out sometimes on a little green eminence.
and sometimes on a meadow. or a bridge. or a reach of the river.
The old trees. ponds, water-courses and grassy nooks were very Eng
lish. on the whole, but luxuriant beyond English imagination. One
tree in the city,—a plane growing in the middle of a bazaar,-—was
measured by us, and found to be thirty-eight feet in the girth.—By
far the ﬁnest of our rides was that which showed us the celebrated
View of the city from above the suburb of the Salaheeyeh. We rode
for nearly an hour through narrow streets. and past many mosques.
before we found ourselves outside the city. Then we ascended the
hill-side, not as high as the grottoes. but above the cemetery: and
thence, looking back. saw a picture which appeared as if it must melt
away in its own beauty. It is this view which makes the Mohammed-
ans declare Damascus to be the ﬁrst of their four terrestrial paradises.
The rich yellow city. with its forty minarets, springs up from the
midst of the glorious verdure which looks as thick as a forest for miles
round. Verdure springs up within the city too; and a village here, a
mosque there. and then a bridge, or a reach of road or water. peeps
out from amidst the surrounding wood; so that the intermingling of
city and forest is most temping to the fancy. as well as delicious to the
eye. Beyond the oasis lies the plain; and beyond the yellow plain.
the timed hills on every side: their hues soft and repressed, as if to
set off the brilliaucy of the gem which lies in the midst. I never
saw anything like this again;—anything nearly so sweet and gay.
We passed over the same spot in leaving the city; but the morning
light was not favorable to it: and it was not like the same scene.

Among the mosques which we visited in the course of this ride, was
one which mi ht have been, as we saw it, a painter's dream. Two
soldiers were Founging' In the weedy gateway. In the long grass with-
in lay the sculptured ornaments of the dismantled chamber. A broken
reservoir was in the midst its waters brimming over the sides into the
grass . and a soft green light was cast over it by the pendulous. leafy
ﬂg-tree above. A shattered column lay at hand, moist and garlanded
with ferns.

Very unlike this was the Mosque of the Derweeshes. which we
next visited. It must once have been handsome; but it has now all
the sordidness of decay, without any of the grace of desertion. The
lead is stripped off its many cupolas by the weather; and the colors
are stained on the walls: but the surrounding buildings are made into
Page-504
502. nan“ Lin.

:1 shabby sort of stables. in which live'eleven Derweeshes. They
drone and beg, and say prayers. and live in the style of our cattle.
They cut up the courts with mean wooden palings, within which
beans were growing in the Itndrained plots which are like ponds after
rain.

The entrances to the city through the deep arches of the bazaar:
are very ﬁne. when the shops are closed,—-as they were this day. We
paused within the shadow and quietness, and looked out upon the gay
and busy life afar, and the minarets,—oae cased with green tiles,an
others yellow and white,—glittering in the sum—During the eightday!
of our abode at Damascus, how many such pictures we saw ! and hov
clear it was that such would daily delight the eye, if we were to In!
there a lifetime of eighty years! Dr. T. likes living at Damascus, and
encourages his countrymen to invest money in mulberry plantations it
Syria. and establish their families there. Few will be tempted to 6»
so, at the cost of forfeiting the privileges of law and government;-
of living in entire dependence on the protection of the Consul, whoa
own position is always a precarious one. I would notlive in Syria.
on any inducement whatever: but that English” persons do live their.
and like it, proves what the charm must be of the beauty of the 00!"?
try and its cities: for there is really nothing else :—neither law not
government. nor society. nor a healthy climate.—-A physician is.as he
ought to be. a privileged person everywhere: but there is little encou-
ragement to any other vocation: for the richest proceeds of mulberry-
growing may be swept away at any moment by political or socill
change. There is bodily |uxury,—as much as can be enjoyed without
health: and there is a perpetual feast of beauty to the eye. Th“
is,l believe, all. except for those who go for patriotic or benevoltnl
objects. Such objects, of course, create an all-sufﬁcient happines! 1‘
Damascus, as everywhere else.

 

CHAPTER II.
AlN FUJI.—ZEBDANY.—BAALBEC.——THE BEKAA.

0N our way out of Damascus, we passed the great military Hospilﬁl
begun by Ibraheem Pasha. when he was master of the country. The
works were stopped when he retired; and now the stones are taken,one
by one, from the unﬁnished walls. by any persons who ﬁnd it convenient
to use them. From place to place in Palestine and S ria, we came
upon the deserted works of Ibraheem Pasha: and everyw ere we fotlnd
the people lamenting the substitution of Turkish for Egyptian wit-
The Turks, it is true, like the lightness of their present taxation, whiCh
is pretty much what it pleases them to make it: and everybody knot"
that the rulers of Egypt impose high taxes: but the religious toleratittn
which existed under lbraheem Pasha, and his many public works, callso
him to be fervently regretted ;—chieﬂy by the Christians, but also by
Page-505
an: run. 503

many others. If there is at present any government at all in the dis-
tricts we passed through, it is difﬁcult to discern: and of course, the
precariousness of affairs is extreme.

We were to spend two nights on the road between Damascus and
Baalbec; and the ﬁrst was to be at Ain Fijji,—ﬁve hours and a half'
from Damascus.—We followed the course of the Barrada; or rather,
we kept its course in View, which it was easy to do, from the belt of
verdure which fringed its channel. In contrast with the limestone hills
around. this vegetation looked black. In the hollows of the hill-range,
there were islands of verdure. with a minaret to each,a mill, and a few
habitations peeping out' above the wood; miniature likenesses of Da-
mascus. and only less beautiful than it. The. prettiest of these settle-
ments was Bassena. While we looked down upon the Barrada,—the
life of the region, without which it would be a desert,—the snowy peaks
which shut in the valley of the Jordan role to the south-west. and the
mountains of the Antilibanus range, which we were now about to cross,
seemed to enlarge every moment.

There was. of con rse, a greater abundance of water as we approached
the mountains: and, of course. the tokens of popular industry increased
in proportion. There were ﬁg orchards, well cleared and fenced, on
the ridges of the nearer eminences; and plantations of mulberries and
vines below. Wherever we fell in with a watercourse, there were
spreading trees, good crops, bridges. mills and rows of dwellings.—lt
was rather late in the afternoon when I, who was riding ﬁrst. turned
into a recess among the hills which I thought so far more beautiful than
any spot we had ever encamped in. that I turned back to intreat that
we might stop here. My companions were of my mind; but the ser-
vants assured us that Ain Fijji, which was only half an hour off, was
better in every respect. We agreed to go and see: and we could re-
turn if we preferred this nook, of which I had scarcely a doubt when
we left it. From a promontory of the mountain, a grassy level spread
out,—little larger than would be. required for our camp. The Barrada
bounded this bit of turf, rushing in u semicircle under a ﬁne pre-
cipice. Nothing could be more delicious than the gush of the clear
abundant waters under the rocks, which overhung the stream enough
to cast a shadow upon it.—The way out of this nook was by a path
so rugged and difﬁcult that I suspected we should not return. however
disappointed we. might be in Ain Fijji. Nobody, however, was ever
disappointed in Ain Fijji, or, I should think, will be, while its waters
ﬂow.

As we passed by the village. the people appeared very civil : and a
man put himself at the head of our troop, to show us where to encamp.
He led us past a glorious old ruin, and by a descending road. where
we heard the gush of waters from below and behind the poplars which
made a screen on our left hand. The guide presently pulled down
enough of an orchard wall on the right to allow the horses and laden
mules to enter, and told us we might encamp in the orchard—From
our platform we overlooked the junction of the Barrada and Fijji be-
low; and we dined under leafy waln‘ut and fig-trees, with blossoming
Page-506
M Ismail urn.

por'negranates pushing in between, and the gush of waters for our
music. A group of very handsome and well-behaved women and chiL
dren stood looking at us. oﬂ‘ering now and then some friendly attention.
High mountains encompassed the whole scene. and the sunset light
upon the eastern summits was gorgeous. The waters of the Barred:
had some of the whitish sulphureous tinge which is seen in the Jordan;
while the stream from Ain Fijji was almost as blue as the sky. The
currents ﬂowed along. side by side, without mingling at all, for some
waly from their junction.
knew that one might trace the whole course of the Fijji without

any great exertion. It is in fact. called the shortest river in the world.
bern only one hundred yards in length. Yet it is an abundant rim
fort at space. The natives, being unwilling to believe that thism
beall of it. declare it to come under ground from the Euphrates-fl
went, however, to see for myself all that is really known about I1-
Never did I visit such a spring. It bursts, an abundant river. from
cavernous rocks. faced with stone, and graced by a temple to ll”
Nymphs, which crowns the precipice. I got down, by the help olde-
tached blocks and the roots of trees, and eeped into the caverns when
the waters were walling up in the deep 3 adow, and rushing out tothe
light. There were hewn stones lying in the river, and remains of I
cornice upon the face of rock. Above these were. as I now saw. I!"
temples of massive structure. The lower one had been vaulted. "I‘ll
an arched portal openingto the river. Never was heathen temple mm
exquisitely placed. A tall ﬁg tree, and a group of young poplars were
now growing up within the walls: and it was all shrouded in gI‘OM
so that it could hardly be seen except from below, while it commalxlf“l
the rushing stream. and was lighted by glancing reﬂections front 1”
waters. A villager came to me, and showed me by intelligible MW
everything I could wish to know ; and he said nothing about bakshee'sll-
As I returned to the camp, I met in succession several women. leadInS
their ﬂocks of goats and kids; and men with asses laden with wood:
one of them spinning with the distaﬁ‘. They all gave me. civil
cheerful greetings. We seemed to have got into a little paradise of
manners, as well as beauty. .

In this sense of security.1 crossed the river. the next morning. "We
our people were breaking up the camp, and followed a hill-path lot! 009'
siderable height, whence 1 could overlook the whole basin. with "5
woods and hidden waters. I was surprised to see how high up “I"
hills vegetation was carried,—there being olive- roves, and even mUl'
berries on ledges of the mountain where I could ardly have supp“!e
they would grow. When [ afterwards saw the western side of Ill?"
non, I found how much higher still men will climb and ﬁx their d‘l'ell'
ings, when they obtain a return for their pains. When seeing 8'".
things, in a country where property is eminently precarious. it is strll}
and painful to think of the Irish, lounging and languishing be“ 9
seas full of ﬁsh. and wide spaces of uncultivated land. If they W9"
set down. as these people are. empty-handed among the rocky slope“
of Antilibanus, with nobody to look to for protection or aid,what WO“
Page-507
an! run. 505

they do? Would they lie down and die? or would they. like these
people, build themselves houses of stone or mud.and make coarse and
rude tools of the wood and stone of the mountain,and prepare terraces
on the bare uplands. and grow fruit and mulberry leaves for barter, and
grain for their own food? And what would not these Syrian peasants
say of their good fortune. if they had at hand bays of the sea swarm-
ing with ﬁsh, and large tracts of soil wanting nothing but labor to make
it fruitful ? It was strange and painful to think of these things: but yet
there was some encouragement, too. When I saw what could be done
by a willing and laborious peasantry in such a district as this. it seemed
impossible that Ireland should not easily support her people when a
new generation sets to work in earnest, like the inhabitants of these
Syrian mountains. As we rode away from Ain Fijji, the people
about the camp attended as till we were fairly off on the road,and then
offered us a blessing such as Christians rarely meet with from Moham-
medans. They cried after us. “ God be with you !"

The bridge of El Souk. two hours from Ain 'Fijji, is in a beautiful
pass, where the rocks approach so as to leave only a strip of green on
either side of the ’Barrada. These rocks have not only holes. supposed
to be sepulchral. but tablets or panels which. though uninscribed, tell a
curious tale. Their presence here is a mystery. The little brid e
lightly spans an emerald- een fall of the river; and the tufts of shru
along the grassy banks 0 the stream are beautiful. A conduit is out
in the rocks; and it crosses the stream with the bridge. A local tra-
dition declares this conduit to have been made by a woman: and the
learned of course suggest that this woman may have been Zenobia.

We followed the Barrada to a beautiful waterfall, among the shrubs
to the left of our track: and then we withdrew a little, crossing a long
stretch of table land. and seeing the quiet and now lessening stream
through all its windings up to Zebdany. near which it takes its rise.

Zebdany is halfway between Damascus and Baalbec: but for three
miles before reaching it. it was difﬁcult to believe we were not in Eng-
land. Ithought at least that this must be one of the districts where
English capital. managed by English agents. is invested: but I could
not learn that it was so,—such scenes of British enterprise lying fur- ‘
ther to the north. We entered upon lanes ;—home-like lanes, with
ditches on either side. and hedges of blackthorn. elder. sycamore,
brambles, hawthorn, nearly out. and briar roses. The gates were like
ours: everything was like home (for the lanes were even muddy) ex-
cept that there were vines and mulberries in the ﬁelds. where with us
there would have been apples and hops. There was nothin tempting
in the village. As in duty bound. we inquired, as ordered y preced-
ing travelers, for Adam’s tomb: and the people took us to the ceme-
tery! We climbed to the upper story of a house, to see some. Syrian
silkworms. They were~in trays: very small as et; and as disagreea-
ble as they are everywhere else—Our tents had, gone forward mean-
time: we rode after them, over hill-tracks. for three hours more, pass-
ing a village where the houses were built of loose stones, and no longer
of mud; and at length saw our tents pitched in a beautiful dell, beside
Page-508
508 Ian“ urn.

a lively stream. There were few or no people near but gatheri-
tending their immense ﬂocks upon the hills.

We Were now only a few hours distant from Baalbec. and on the
next evening (May 6th). we were to rest under the walls of the gut
Temple of the Sun. The ﬁrst few miles of our ride in the morning
were charming.-—winding beside the streams. and over grassy leve'a.
and across fallow ﬁelds.ti|l we entered upon a barer region of limestone
hills,-—the outer skirts of the Antilibanus range.—l believe travelers
usually approach Baalbec from the south. balthe Bekaa: and me
say that that is the most imposing approach. e reached it by a lateral
pass. from the southeast. looking down upon it from aconsidenble dis-
tance. Travelers always stand up for their own way of ﬁrst apprmca-
inga great object.—knowing that to be very ﬁne. and knowin at
other: and I might say that, from what I saw of the aspect of bet.
the second day, from the Bekaa.l should think the descent upon :1
better, for a ﬁrst view, than an approach on the same level. But there
is no saying. as we can have but one ﬁrst impression: and I will only
declare that we were quite satisﬁed with our ﬁrst view of Baalbec.

The Bekaa is the Valley. sometimes called Hollow Syria. lying be
tween the Antilibanus range and the loftier Lebanon. It is watered by
the Lietani river,—believed to be the ancient Leontes. which rise: a
little above Baalbec, and ﬂows in a nearly straight course. till it reaches
the Mediterranean above the ancient Tyre. It was by this Hollow Way
that the ancient armies used to march. whose expeditions so largely
affected the fate of the Hebrews throughout their residence in Pales-
tine. The Syrians were wont to march down this valley to theirsieges
of Samaria; and it was by this way that the Egyptians. landing at
Tyre. came up against Damascus. This conspicuous and much fre-
quented valley was a ﬁtting place for the great Temple of the Sun ;—
both for the honor of the god. and for the convenience of native and
foreign worshipers. The ediﬁces of Baalbec are situated on one side
of the valley. which is here about seven miles wide. They stand in-
deed near the base of the eastern mountains.

We had seen the Bekna at intervals during the morning. when the

' hills on our left opened enough to disclose what was behind them.
The aspect of the eastern declivities of Lebanon. on the other side of
the valley, was very remarkable. The summits were streaked with
snow; below which the heights were of the usual mountain coloring
of gray. purple and green. Below. their skirts were too variegated
and gaudy for beauty. the slopes being white.‘ shaded into scarlet and
crimson. which ran into the softer tints above. The Beltaa looked dim
and uniform. and as if it must be as sultry as the plain of the Jordan in
summer.—We turned to the left at last, down upon the Bekaa. and
came upon a sudden view of Baalbec below us.—its six gigantic co
lumns standing up above the great mass of ruins. The trees were few
and scattered. instead of being like the woods we had seen investing
all the towns, from Damascus onwards.

' From whenw the name is derived,—Lebanon signifying White.
Page-509
amaze. 507’

Before going to our tents, which were pitched beside the Temple of
the Sun, we turned a little southwards. to the quarries. whence the
stone was drawn for these mighty ediﬁces. The whole area of these
quarries is very lar e and strikin ; but the great marvel of the place
is' the unremoved lock, whose €qu exceeds that of any stones we
saw in Egypt: and Ibelieve, that of any other known block in the
world. Accordin to Pococke, this stone measures sixty-eight feet in
length, nearly eig teen feet in width, and nearly fourteen in thickness.
There are stones in one of the temple walls measuring each from sixty
to sixty-three feet in length. and of proportionate breadth and thick-
ness : and these are built into the wall at some height from the ground.
It has been observed, however, that the ground within is higher than
that Without; and some have supposed—under the great difﬁculty of
accounting for the elevated position of such masses, that they were
brought on rollers over high ground, deposited in their places, and the
earth then cutaway from them. But this does not appear to lessen the
difﬁculty where such masses lie one upon another: for we have only
to‘choose between the two impossible tasks of lowering the under
series, and bringing the higher up hill. In truth, we know nothing,
about it; and the dealings of the ancients with such masses is a thing
quite beyond Our comprehension now.

The children about our tents WPre beautiful. I sat down, and col-
lected them round me, to see an orange divided, and then to eat it up;
and it was amusing to perceive how like they were to children at home,
—in the boldness of one,—ihe shyness of another, and the waggery ofa
third. While I was thinking so. a beautiful girl stood between her
mother and me. looking from one to the other. She held by the hand
a shy little brother who would have hidden himself and lost his bit of
orange, if I had not kept it for him till he could be induced to 'come.
His sister now, on obtaining a smile from her mother.‘came to me. and
most gracefully kissed my hand. This was not like an English child.
Whenever I have traveled abroad. I have wished that we could, in the
training of children. cease to interfere with natural language in the
way we do. I am aware that there is much to he said on both sides
of this really important question; and no one can be further than I am
from wishing to return to those demonstrations of feeling which belong
essentially to a state of barbarism. One would not wish to hear the
howl at funerals in England: nor to see mourners tearing their clothes,
or throwing dust on their heads.——any more than one would relish
savage laughter and capering on joyful occasions. But the reason why
one does not wish to see these barbarous signs of emotion is because
violent emotions are themselves barbarous. The chastened emotions
of the wise may be left to express themselves naturally: and their
natural expression will be simply by the countenance and the tone of
the voice. The natural language will be subdued only because the
emotions are: and there appears no reason for the suppression of ges-
ture and the training of the carriage. in relation to the small occasions
of hourly life in which express discipline is out of place. English
children are just as animated and graceful in their infancy as any little
Page-510
508 Imam am.

Arabs or Italians: but by ten years old they are subdued, if possible:
and if they cannot be subdued, they are of course rude. In England,
we see many a girl of the age of this Baalbec child, who is interesting
from the mobile character of her countenance. in spite of her immova-
ble attitudes. Why should she have been deprived of the freedom of
unconsciously expressing herself by the language of gesture. during
the ears when she is too shy for the full use of speech. and before
she has obtained adequate command of it? Tho ungainly and nuns-
tural inexpressiveness of childish manners in England is one of the most
striking and uncomfortable impressions the traveler receives. on his
return home; as the mobile grace of children and adults has been one
of his dailyepleasures abroad.

Almost fore Mrs. Y. and I were dressed. our tent-curtains were
thrown open, and a train of ﬁve ladies entered. As Alee was engaged
interpreting between the gentlemen and some visitors in their tent. OI!
position was rather awkward; or rather. it would have been so, if our
visitors had not appeared extremely happy. They stroked our gowns.
looked merrily in our faces, and every now and then.burst into a laugh.
as children do from tnere glee. Thus we sat for some time. all looking
as amiable as we could. till Alee arrived with coffee. These ladies were
from Damascus,—sent hither by our friend. Dr. T., for health; and
they reported very favorably of the eﬂ'ect ol' the change. One of them
was the wife of the Baalbec agent of the English consulate. The
agent and his lady were kind to as. sending us, the next morning!
tray covered with butter, cheese and fresh'ﬂowers. The agent also
guided us in a ride in the neighborhood; after which he sent a message
to the gentlemen by Alee, r nesting them to give him a spyglass.

After the departure of the adies, we ran up to the great temple, for
half-amhour before dinner; and afterwards we took a more deliberate
survey. I will not dwell upon what has been well described in many
books: but I am happy to be able to say that the report which I found
prevailing when [reached home. and saw repeated in many newspa-
pers. of this temple being in course of destruction. that the stones might
be used for a new qua , is altogether false. The date of the repoﬂ
was the same as that 0 our visit; and no persons were moving stones
when we were there. Whenever they do, they will ﬁnd it easierw
help themselves from the enormous heaps that are lying about, than to
dislodge the blocks of which the temple is built.

The ediﬁces are most massive. wonderful and beatiful; and some of
our part were more impressed by them than by anything we had seen-
Fully a mitting the reasonableness of this,I recurred to the temples of
Egypt, and felt how much stronger was the charm of their antiquily
than that of any architectural magniﬁcence and grace. It is true,thil
place is of unknown antiquity; but that is historically, and not visibly.
One remembers that this was a stage in the highway from Tyre 10
Irldia when Palmyra was a mere watering station in the Desert: it"!
what one hears of is its Greek name of Heliopolis: and what one sets
is the buildings of the Roman emperors. I am quite of Captain Mun-

N.
Page-511
sumac. 609

gles’ opinion when he says. uI think that he who has once seen Egypt.
will never feel equally interested in any other country."

The six enormous columns which are seen for many miles round,
are the grandest feature of the ruins. The eagle is interesting, from
being the true eagle of Sun-worship,—unlike the Roman, or any other
emblematic eagle; and,to my eye, little resembling any actual bird. [I
is not easy to obtain a good view of it, as it is in an inconvenient posi-
tion overhead ;—-and the block which contains the greater part of it has
sunk from its place, so as to divide the ﬁgure. and to threaten to fall on
the head of the gazer.—The reat hall has a classical air; and its niches
probably contained Roman i ols. We wished the wall away which
spoiled the corresponding recess, it being built directly across the
urea ; but there was something strihing in seeing within the same
enclosure. traces of the three successive proprietorshipst—those of
Baal-worshipers, the priests of Apollo, and the Saracens. It is impos-
sible to give an idea how diﬁ'erently the worship of Baal appears among
the ruins of his shrines and in the school-room at home. Amidst the
contempt of idols in which we are brought up, it is a perpetual wonder
how idols could have obtained any worshipers. Children in En land,
--and some grown children lhere,—-—lose all patience with the He rews
that they could so much as turn their heads to look upon Baal and
Astarte. and have no words for their contempt of people who, in the
Promised Land. could “ halt between two opinions." They have a
strong impression, too. of the vulgarity of Baal. who appears a much
nobler deity when he is found to be the same with Apollop I must con-
fess that I felt almost as much aﬂ‘ected with the sense of the folly of all
this prejudice. when I stood among the ruins of Baalbec, as if I had
just come out ofthe school-room in which I used to take upon me, thirty
years ago. to despise Baal, and be disgusted with his vulgarity. Of
course, I had long been aware, when I deliberately considered the
matter. that this worship, like every other. prevailed,and could prevail,
only in virtue of the Ideasin which it originated. But there is nothing
like being on the spot, for shaking of prejudice, and liberating one’s
sympathies. I had found this in Egypt, when I was instructed b what
I saw to judge of its old faith as we would have Christianity ju ged of
in a future age of the world :—not by the literal outward representation
alone. but with the remembrance that a whole world of ideas and feel-
ings was living and moving within: and here I received another les-
son in the magniﬁcence and exquisite beauty which could have had
no meaner origin than a spirit of reverence. In these mighty halls,
under these lofty colonnades, there can be no doubt that hearts have
beat. and souls have been stirred, with emotions as intense as human
nature is capable of ;—of adoration and gratitude to the Lord of Life
and the Light of the World. Baal was the most life- iving and beneﬁ-

cent of heathen deities; and he was adored according y.

Nothing but earthquake could have affected such ruin as is man here.
All about us la shafts and capitals; and sculptured blocks shaken out
of the ceilingo the portico: and when we climbed a shattered staircase
belonging to the massive Sat-scenic portion of the buildings, we saw
Page-512
510 In"!!! L!"-

that we were surrounded by complete desolation. The light shone
through the ﬁssures in the temple-buildings; and the whole arena!
Baulbec was an expanse of heaped stones. with two unﬁnished minutes.
and some modern dwellings rising out of them.

The large square called the Forum, struck us as being very beautiful.
Here,when this city was the glory of the plain between the two Lebanon
ranges. did the people meet ;—the merchants trading between India and
Tyre; the Egyptians on their way to Damascus; the soldiers from
Rome; the artists and philosophers from Greece; the ambassadorsou
their way to Palmyra, and the priests of the temple which towered
close at hand. The ediﬁce in the midst has left mere traces; hutthc
corner recesses of the enclosure. and the niches. with the Medusa~hnds
the shells. and other such ornaments, tell something of the beaut which
is gone—The Saracenic fortress and vaults are wonderful p cello!
size and solidity; but. of course, they do not constitute the interestof
Baalbec.

Early the next morning (May 6th). we walked to the little oratory
tn the Bekaa,about half an hour south from the Temple. It is merely
a small rooﬂess building, whose unadorned cornice is supported by eighl
granite pillars. The advantage of the walk was in giving us good
views of the plain as we went, and of the ruins as we returned. The
road was a mere track, passing among patches of tilled ground. In
this path I saw, on returning, an oddl -shaped small stone ; and fortu-
nately I stooped for it. When cleane ,it turned out to be a beautifully
sculptured little hand, grasping a leaf. No doubt it is a fragment J
some sculptured wreath from the temple ;—a bit of plunder dropped in
the path by some thief.

After breakfast, we visited the most elegant of the smaller buildings;
the circular temple with an hexagonal cornice. Only four pillarsol
the six remain, and the ediﬁce is crumbling away. The Greek Chris-
tians have daubed the inside and the door-posts with their wretched
paintings.

We rode to Ras-el-Ain, the spring of the river of Baalbec; and on
our way, we passed mosques, whose arches are supported by elegxml
marble Corinthian pillars;—symbols of the Sun-god having come to d0
homage to the latest Prophet.—The place of the spring is pretty ;—-a
grassy spot, enlivened with walling waters. The yellow rme gt“
splendidly here. On our return, we once more went over the ruins.
measuring the large stones. and completing our survey; and then
mounted to follow our baggage train across the Bekau.

The land was roughly ploughed, very stony and weedy, but pm
ducing good crops here and there. Among the barley, I saw no“
sarcophagus,—then a hewn stone covered with sculptures,—and, stand-
ing up conspicuously in the wide level, the pillar called Hamoudisde-
This mixture of elements of scenery, with the colonndes of Bulb“
surmounting the trees behind, was stran e enough: but the whole WIS
further perplexed and made remarkabe by a mirage in the plliﬂr
almost as deceptive as that in the Field of Damascus.—At the village
of Dayr—el-Akmar, we obtained a guide, to conduct as over the bell‘

N
‘5.
Page-513
caossmo was names. '5“

non.—We had been warned that the Cedars were never accessible be—
fore June, from the depth of the snow: but we were disposed to try to
reach them. Instead,therefore, of following the road toTripoli. we now

saw that road part off to our left; and we went more directly up the
face of the mountains, nearly opposite Banlhec.

CHAPTER III.

CROSSING THE LEBANON—THE CEDARS.—EDEN.—JOURNEY T0
BATROUN.—LAST EN CAMPMENT.

Tn: passage of the Lebanon was very agreeable,—the path winding
amon woodland—(chieﬂ holly, with some oak)—and over a prolusion
of wi d ﬂowers,—the ye low jessamine abounding' as much as any.
We rode up steep ascents,and down to shallow valleys, so that we were
on the whole rapidly mounting. As I was riding behind, a man offered
me some goats’ milk, which was so welcome that I paid him lavishly.
He followed me for more money, which I'would- not give: and when I
overtook my party.I found that Mr. Y. had sent him to me, having paid
handsomely for the milk. Thus the visits of strangers are made ro-
ﬁtable.—-The next little valley we overlooked was that in which we
were to rest for the night; and our tents were already pitched. Its
aspect was very Alpine. from the scantiness of its crops, the character
of its wood, and the water-fall which came leaping down in successive
stages, from the verge of the snows above.—I went up the hill-side,
among the crevices where the waters took theirleap, and there Ibsthed.
in the coldest water I ever felt. This refreshment, and the pure air of
the mountain, were like new life, after breathing so long in the depress-
ing atmosphere of the plains.

The next morning, we reached the summit of the pass in an hour
and forty minutes, The- path was zigzag, and very steep, and so little
encumbered with snow, that there was no difﬁculty whatever. We
crossed two or three patches of not more than a foot in depth: and that
was all. We could see Baalbec the whole way, by looking back over
the Bekaa: and I should think, by the evening light, the colonnades
must be visible.standing above the screen of wood. To our left spread
the little Lake Limoun, looking so calm and still, that for some time I
supposed it to be mere mira e. The moment of turning away from
the ridge, and losing sight 0 Antilibanus, was rather sad : for we felt
that this was our true farewell to the East. We were parting from
the Plain of Hollow Syria, and from the es leadin to Damascus; and
from the peaks which closed in the Val ey of the ordan; and hence-
forth we must look only westwards.

This ﬁrst western view was extremely ﬁne: and we were not disap-
pointed by blinding mists. as so many travelers have been who, comin
hither with their minds full of Volney's description, have found al
blank. There was haze over the sea: but we could distinguish the
Page-514
513 max ml.

lines of the breakers. and presently. a ﬁne jutting headland. and eta
its reﬂection in the waters. The abysses of the Lebanon valleys use
most striking. with their red and gray rocks. not lying- in strata):
rising in perpendicular masses, supporting platforms. on which stout
villages, with cypresses for spires. Overlapping mountains. calm
der by these abysses, succeeded one another to the coast. Between a
and the highest terraces.—terrnoes which reached an incredible heig:
—stretched snowy and barren slopes. Beshirai.on an isolated pl:—
form. bristling with cypresses, and showing lines of ﬂat roofs, was far
below us: and so was Eden on its hill ;—Eden which is perched:
high, that the inhabitants live in it only during the spring and sum
months.—A few steps further. and we saw the Cedars.—-a patch it
dark wood at the base of the slope to our right,——just below the var-g
of theanow.

There was more snow on this than on the eastern side; and the m
was rugged. swam y, and slippery; but I did not ﬁnd it necessary i
dismount, and reac ed the cedars dry shod.

These trees have now spread. from being a mere clump. to a m
of considerable extent. They stand on undulating ground—on a new
of hill and dale which is exceedingly pretty—its grassy and mossysr
face shaded b the enormous old trees. and sprinkled all over with the:
seedlings. he priest who lives on the spot pointed out to as three
trees which are declared to belong to the most ancient generation. and
which devotees would fsin make out to have been growing in Solomon‘s
time. There are nine more which look equally old; that is. as old I
possible. Of these nine, one measured 88 feet ll inches round th
umnk. and one of the three oldest measured 30 feet. It is under thl
last that mass is performed once a year; and its trunk is carvedsi
over with names. The priest told us that he had lived there. hesik
the little chapel. for twelve years. and that no accident had hefallet
any of the old trees in his time. The Christians call the trees “ Saints?
and when we asked how the Mohammedans re ard them—knowing
that they come hither in pilgrimage—we were to d that they call them
“god-trees.” Their spread over the slopes is beautiful; and- far do"
the declivities, their roots come out so woody and thick as to look like
prostrate trunks. One ofthe second generation. the nine. is so strangely
cut that we inquired the reason. and found that an Abyssinian monk
lived in it for many years. in all weathers; till, at last, a rude hutd'
stones was built for him, which is still standing. The priest brought
us wine. and gave us information very civilly. I would fain have stayed
a day—or a week. if we could—for it is a charming spot; but it was
thought necessary to proceed to Eden~nearly three hours further. on
a rangh and hilly road.

The valley which opens about half an hour before Eden is gloriously
beautiful. Wherever we looked there were red precipices, marvelously
terraced.and white water-falls. and oapriciousgreeu slopes. and streams
rushing in conduits or natural channels; and groves of mulbe and
ﬁg. about the little villages. perched in apparently inaccessible .
Eden .is aMaronite village. crowded with churches; and the hatred:
Page-515
III-N. 513

of its houses were already occupied with trays of silk worms. We
saw it to no advantage. it being enveloped in mist this evening. and
damp and dreary with mountain rain in the morning. We encamped
on a stretch of grass near a large walnut-tree, from whose old roots a
stream leaped in a pretty water-fall. The people Were very handsome,
and we saw a good deal of them, as they gathered about us. and lost no
opportunity of peeping into the tents. When the wind went down in
the evening, I stole out, and sat on a wall in the shadow. to see what I
could of this new world. The handsome women. with the becoming
ﬁllet on the forehead,were talking in the light of the ﬁres; the last gust
had parted the mists, and the depths of the gorges began to appear,
while two glorious planets were going down behind a western ridge—-
the lighted tents looked warm under the spreading walnut-trees; and
the guard were patrolling on the outskirts of the camp. We missed
much of the peculiar beauty of Eden ;* but I shall not forget what we
did see there.

The next day, May 8th. was to take us to the coast. We were to
encamp within the sound of those breakers whose white line we had
discerned from the summit of Lebanon. We had been advised to go
down by the gorge of the Kadesha to Batman. instead of pursuing the
ordinary road towards Tripoli. There could be no doubt of the superior
beauty of the route by the gorge; but our adviser had forgotten that we
had loaded mules with us; and that for such there was no proper track.
We had so many delays from this cause, as to give us a most fatiguing
day’s journey. We were in the saddle eleven hours; but we did not
re et our choice of route.

e took a guide from Eden, who seemed to be highly pleased with
his engagement. He spoke to every one we met. and boiled all the
men at work in the ﬁelds, and all the women who were gathering leaves
in the plantations; and the name Batroun was in every speech; but he
did not always know the way, and twice, at least, led us wrong. At
the outset, a thick mist came down upon us, and thoroughly wetted us.
The road was a rough track, which sometimes failed us altogether; and
where it did not, it was the most rugged we had met with. except one
or two passes in Arabia. In the steepest part, where it was a mere
staircase of rock, where I kept my seat only because the water was
rushing down ankle deep. my mare made too long a step. and slipped
on her knees: and at the moment, the crapper of in saddle broke—of
course, the saddle fell over her neck. and I over her ead. No one was
with me but the guide; and he was in such consternation.that his only
idea was to hold us both in our actual position till the rest of the party
came up. There was no mischief done but the spoiling of the comfort
of my saddle, and that l twisted my ankle slightly. and tore my skirt to
strips. We went down through the midst of terraced mulberry-planta-
tions; and between walls where there was no room for the laden mules
to pass; so that we were delayed while the fences were sufﬁciently
pulled down to make a passage. When we came to narrow ways be-
tween ﬂst-rool'ed houses, the spectacle was ver amusing. Our people

got upon the roofs, and lifted up the burdens o ‘the mules high enough
83
Page-516
5M ’ smart ml.

to let the animals pass beneath, letting down the load again at the and
of the strait. While one mule was passing in this manner, those behind
occupied themselves with browsing on the grass and weeds which 3!“
on the house tops. The charm of wild-ﬂowers now again began tony
pear; and the cyclamen and cistul bordered the track.

When we emerged from the mist, the scene was glorious.—the gag!
of the Kadesha opening below us, and the rich skirts of Lebanon stretch-
ing away to the shore. The track down to the torrent was so harm
that the burdens of the mules occasionally struck against the reel”!
one side, throwing the animals 03' their balance. and threateningto
knock them over the precipice on the other side. The drivers upheld
them with all their strength: and one man, while doing thisnnimi
his footing, and tumbled over and over to a considerable depth. Then
he lay as if dead: and it was scarcely possible to doubt his being fall“:
hurt. Alec scrambled down after him. and performed a feat which]
should have thought impracticable for one so slightl made. Hetooli
up his more bulky comrade in his arms. and shook him up and down,
as if he wished to dislocate any joints which might not have tmdeI'gw
that process already. After some minutes of this run I) exercistm
restorative effects were apparent. The man showed himself call“!
of voluntary movement; and was presently as cheerful as usual. M9"?
time, the foremost of the party had discovered that the proper bﬂdﬂ' ‘
over the torrent was one. The piers and fragments showed us Wllll
a safe and handsome ridge we might have found there at some forum
time: but now there was only a slight temporary bridge over the ma!
tumultuous part of the torrent, where it was made yet more noisy hi
the junction of a roaring rapid from a mill on the opposite side. 1"?
quired some little command of nerve for as rational beings to pass 1“
leading our restless horses: but some of the males had no idea or my
self-command; and they positively refused to set foot on the land!"
By hood—winking. pulling, and many blows, all were forced over W
two;—a little one. and one as large as a horse. We stood for M
than half-an-hour in a damp mulberry plantation, watching the dent”
of the drivers. At last a strong body ofthem lifted up the hind leg!“
the animal, and forced it over the bridge, wheel-barrow fashion. The“
the creatures had to be reloaded ; and much time was lost at this bndﬂ"
Next. one of the mules fell over, exactly as the driver had done 0“
other side: and he would have tumbled into the torrent. if three In?“
had not jumped down in an instant, and propped up the animll '"h
their shoulders, till his burden was removed, and he was led up toll“
path. By this time, we be an to wonder when we should get to B"
troun: and I, for one. hope that we should encamp somewhere “‘0“
of it. The men were breathless, and evidently not equal to many 13°”
such adventures this day. But as we wound up the gorgetl‘F‘W'
thickets of thorns and wild roses, it was a comfort to see Alec 8'1““
sideways on his horse, smoking his chibouque, and trying to help laugh-
in at the tatters of my skirt. 0n the opposite side of the ravine-u"
e ect was strange of the slanting strata, fringed and feathered with all
Page-517
room To uraovx. 515

upright trees. It made me so iddy that I could not look up at this
confusion of lines while riding a ve a precipice.

0n emerging from the gorge, we saw Tripoli, on the shore to the
north. and commanded a noble stretch of coast: but when we sat down
for luncheon. the sea looked so far off that I did not believe we could
reach it before evening: and indeed the enterprise was rash. On we
went, over hills and round them, and dipping into valleys where we
had no business, and from which our puzzled guide had some diﬂiculty
in extricating us. In clambering out of one of these. a young man of
the company received a dreadful kick on the knee from one of the
horses. He was faint with the pain: and we feared it was something
worse than a bruise: but next day he was limping on again, so as to
show that no bones were broken or displaced. Late in the afternoon,
we saw so many villages, ruins. and convents placed on the crests of
the bills, as to show that we were approaching the more peopled neigh-
borhood of the coast. And when we inquired for Batroun. we were
told it was “down below.—there!” but the gray sea-line was still very
distant: and I knew that Batroun stood out into the sea. It was just
twelve hours from breakfast, when we descended our last long and formi-
dable hill;—a glaring limestone steep. with precipices on the left hand.
At one point. the path made a sharp turn on the very verge of a pre-
cipice, at a great height. My sight was dim. my head giddy, and my
limbs trembling from exhaustion,—-my fatigue having been greatly
aggravated by the uneasiness of my saddle. since the accident in the
morning. As I saw my companions passing this point singly and
slowly. I had some doubts about doing it myself ; andl carefully looked
away from the precipice. At the most critical moment.—0n the very
verge.—my saddle turned. By a sudden check.[ pulled my horse
round, so as to fall on the ground instead of down the steep. My com-
panions could not persuade me to mount again till we were on level

and. Mrs. Y. rode on to send me wine: and by means of that re-

reshment, and Mr. E.'s stout stick to help my sprained ankle, I at last

reached the bottom of the hill. Then there was nearly an hour's ride
toBatroun. We found blessed rest when we got there. Our tents
were pitched on a low grassy cliff just above the breakers, which
lulled us with their steady roll and dash upon the shingle of the beach.
The sun had set: but the gra clouds which hung above the sea still
showed a crimson glow; and t ere was a streak of yellow light on the
waters near the horizon. As [lay on the thick grass and daisies in the
tent, listening to the sea, I felt very well satisﬁed with the adventures
of the most fatiguing day of our travels.

The next day, (Sunday, May 9th.) was easy enough. We had the
refreshment of sea-bathing to begin with; and the journey was short
and safe :—safe for a part numerous enough to defy the robbers who
are said to abound alongt is shore.——When we came forth in the morn-
ing. we found that Batroun was on our right hand. standing out ﬁnely
into the sea. on a picturesque rock. This place gives its title to a Ma-
ronite prelate; and the inhabitants are chieﬂy Maronites. Some of
them came about us, and seemed kindly and cheerful.—Our road this
Page-518
M6 lam“ ran.

day was almost wholly upon the cliffs. above the ﬁne broken roclnol
the shore. and sometimes descending among them. Almost all the
men-we met carried s are. At a sharp turn on the shore. when my
companions had just isappeared behind a point before me. two men
with spears ran up to me. one on each side my horse, and laid holdu'
the bridle.—one of them shaking his weapon in my face. Whether
these were any of the coast robbers we had heard of.I do not know.
My party were within call; but I thought there would be troubleall
a scufﬂe if I brought our servants and these men into collision: sol
twitched my rein out of their hands. laughed in their faces. and rndt
away. They made no attempt to stop me; and their purpose may hm
been merely to beg.—-At distances all along the shore are cafes, when
the inhabitants sit undertrellises. or garlanded sheds, to smoke and talk.
—and also. it seemed. to take their meals.—Many anglers were busy
at the pools among the rocks.—each one carrying his spear with his
ﬁshing-rod. Many women came down to the shore for the ﬁsh caught:
and others were busy in the plantations. stripping the mulberry tree-t-
—Nothing struck us more than the number of convents which crestrd
the lower eminences of the Lebanon. With them. and the scattered
villages, the region looked more peopled than any rural district we hall
seen for long.

Batroun. on its promontory. was in view for some hours: and I think ‘
it was before we lost sight of Batroun that we saw. to the south,th¢
headland on which stands Beirout. the limit of our journey :—the pﬂ‘
from which we were to set sail.—Between them, and nearer to Bottom
lies Djebail.—the old Cesarea: and there we stopped for our noon—Ila!
rest.—vislting the Citadel.—so battered by British guns,—and fl"
granite pillars,which lie in large numbers in the sea. and are built Into
the neighboring walls.-—About a mile south of Djehail, we crossed the
Natural Bridge, which is as prstt as Natural Bridges always are; “4
soon after. turned up the rapid. c ear stream which ﬂows down Wadet
Ibraheem Adonis. My mare seemed as little inclined to cross ‘1“
bridge as the stream—not liking its steep steps at both ends. its height.
and its having no parapet. The banks below were rich with Oleander!
and other shrubs; and the whole scene so striking that we were glld
to ﬁnd our tents pitched not far off, on the shore, in the angle made by
the river and the sea. It was yet early; and we had many hour!
before us for enjoying our Sunday repose. There was something
about it too: for this was to be our last evening in our tents. We ltld
been very happy in our tents; and I. for one, knew that I should never
taste that kind of life again. For hours this day. I. lay upon the sand.
or walked along the margin of the waves; and I seem now to be Ible
to recall all that I saw. and all that passed through my mind. during I
day of busy thought.

The blue ridge to the south. which showed white specks in the 900'
set light, was the limit of our travels. the dwellings of Beirout brill!
visible even thus far. Before me lay the sea. our homeward pill”
and behind lay the East.—the birth-place of the Ideas which ha"
hitherto governed mankind. Within me weretstirring speculatilma
Page-519
am nacsmnsr. 51?

how long'thess ideas will govern mankind; and how largely‘the will
enter into the views which must, sooner or later, arise out of the est-
em Mind, to animate and enlighten future generations in all the regions
of the earth. It is scarcely probable that the function 'of the western
races should for ever continue to be to receive and amplify governing
ideas. and never to originate any.—The world-and human life are, as
yet, obviously very young. Human existence is. as yet, truly infantine:‘
infaﬁtine in its unconsciousness of its best powers, in the restriction of
its knowledge, and in its subjection to its natural passions. It can
hardly be but that, in its advance to its maturity. new departments of
its strength will be developed, and the reﬂective and substantiating
powers which characterize the Western Mind be brought into union with
the Perceptive, Imaginative and Aspiring Faculty of the East, so as
to originate a new order of knowledge and wisdom, and give a conti-
nually higher and truer employment to the faculties of Reverence, self-
government, and obedience which are common to the whole race.
From out of these speculations now spoke the still small voice of
conscience, prescribing the part which every thoughtful person who
had accepted the privilege of exploring these Eastern regions, should
take in aid of the work of enlightening the human mind. Such a
function, once recognized, is not to he declined by any one because his
powers are humble, his knowledge partial, and his inﬂuence insigniﬁ-
cant in his own eyes. The thoughtful traveler must have some know-
ledge. and some ideas which he could not have obtained at home, and
which the generality of people at home cannot obtain for themselves.
These he cannot, in ﬁdelity to himself and his fellow-men, ignore, or
bury out of the way of his convenience and repose. If he derives
from his travels nothing but picturesque and amusing impressions,—
nothing but more pastime.—he uses like a child a most serious and
manlike privilege. The humblest thinker. the most diﬁdent inquirer.
may be ashamed to make so mean a use of so gracious an opportunit .
Moreover, he will be afraid of so selﬁsh and undutiful a levity. e
feels that. however lowly his powers, he must use such knowledge and

reﬂective faculty as he has: and again, he feels that if he can speak,
he must.

He must speak; and with ﬁdelity. Bringing together, and testin
with his best care, what he knows, he must say what he thinks, and
that he thinks, on the topics of which his mind is full. It is no
concern of his whether what he thinks is new; nor, in this relation,
whether it is abstractedly and absolutely true. Probably, no one can
say anything which is abstractedly and absolutely true. When all

thinkers say freely what is to them true,we shall know more of abstract
and absolute truth than we have ever known yet.—lt is no concern of

the thoughtful traveler’s whether what he says is familiar or strange,

agreeable or unacceptable, to the prejudiced or to the wise. His only

concern is to keep his ﬁdelity to truth and man: to say simply and, if

he can. fearlessly, what he has learned and concluded. If he be mis-

taken, his errors will be all the less pernicious for being laid open to

correction. If he be right, there will be so much accession, be it little
33‘ .
Page-520
519 smut ms.

or much. to the wisdan of mankind. Either way, he will have dit-
cha d his errand; and it is so important to him to have done that.
thatrE: will think little in comparison of how his avowslswill be received
by any man, or any number of men.

- Such are the considerations which have impelled me, without coo-
ferring with inclination, or attending to any natural misgivings,» oft!
as I have done my views of some features of Eastern Life. presented
put. I could not have accepted the privilege of my travels without
scceptin slso their responsibilities. Having. as well as I could. es-
deavor to discharge these responsibilities, I can henceforth looklsck
upon the re 'ons of the East with more freedom and pleasure thul
could from $at Syrian shore. in the light of the last sunset I was ever
to watch from the door of our tent.
Page-521
APPENDIX.

A.-p. 22.

D: Seat, in his version of Abdsllatif’s book, gives s. long note' on the subject of
the connection of Pompey’s Pillar with the Alexandrina Academia and Library.
Alter telling us that he will not enlarge on the evidences already oﬂ'ered by Messrs.
[armies and White, nor insist on the testimony of Arabian writers who may have
copied from Abdallatif, he proceeds:

“I will just observe that there is much weight in the testimony of a judicious
writer, who declares that he had himself seen the remains of these columns, and who
bands whatever he says about their destruction, and about the date of that destrucc
tion, on the unanimous report of all the inhabitants of Alexandria. I may add, that
this event. which happened in the reign of Saladin, toolt place at the utmost thirty
years before Abdallatif’s journey into Egypt: and also that the name of the column
is a strong conﬁrmation of the story. I can easily believe that there may be much
exaggeration in the number of four hundred columns, and even that Karadja was
guilty of nothing worse than completing the ruin of an ediﬁce which time had.
already damaged, and employing the materials in a manner worthy of an ignorant
Massnlman: but the foundation of the story is not, for this, the less certain and.
invincible. The only thing which could be desired for further conﬁrmation would
be some testimonies from Mohammedan writers of one or two centuries earlier than
Ahdallatit', who, in their descriptions of Alexandria. might mention these colonnades
as existing in their times. Mr. White has satisﬁed some of our wishes in this mat-
ter, in citing a passage from the abridger of Edrisi, who attests that the pillar in
question belonged to an ediﬁce situated in the middle of the city. ‘ whose columns,‘
uys he, ‘are still standing. The door jambs also remain. This ediﬁce forms an
oblong square; there are sixteen columns on each of the shorter sides; and sixty-
seven on each of the longer. Towards the northern side, there is a great pillar
adorned with a capital, and set on a pedestal of marble,’ &c. Edrisi1 of whose work
this anther gives a mere abridgrnent, wrote about the year 548 of the Begins, and
therefore ﬁfty years before Abdallatif. His testimony therefore conﬁrms what our
author relates of the ruin of this ediﬁce in the time of Seladin.—I can here cite other
authorities equally positive.”—De Sacy does amordingly give testimonies from Ara-
bian writers prior to Edrisi; testimonies which leave no doubt what they were
writing about, though some oriental exaggeration is mixed with their narratives.
“These authorities,” De Sacy goes on to say, “leave no doubt that the column now
called Pompey’s Pillar owes its Arabian name of Pillar of the Colonnades to the
portiooes by which it was surrounded, and which were still sanding, at least in
part, in the time of Saladira’L—Aner adducing the authority of some modern scholars
in support of the facts under notice, De Sacy proceeds:

“I cannot satisfy myself without adding to the testimony of the Arabian writers
one much more ancient, which, it appears to me. has not been sufﬁciently attended
to, but which has not been neglected by M. Zoéga. It is taken horn the writings
of the rhetorician Aphthoniusd' Aphthonias, alter having described the situation

' Note as, on Livre 1., oh. 4. _ ‘

t Aphthonius, I rhetoricisn of Antiwar saiposed h some to have hvsdin the second
century of our era, and by some later. ’ wor s, new mle known, were In high ssteemia
is month and sixteenth «antics.
Page-522
no man.

of what he calls the Acropolis of Alexandria, the elevation of the pundit“
cult roads by which it is approached, the hundred steps which must be M!
reach it, and the pmpylon which adorned the entrance, continues thus: ‘Whesr
enter the citadel, we ﬁnd an area bounded by ﬁrm equal sides; so that the she
this ediﬁce is that of a brick-mould (an oblong square). In the midstissu:
surrounded by columns; and to thiscourtporticoa succeed: the pordmama
divided by columns of the same proportion. . . . Emh portico mush-n l
the angle where another portioo begins: and there is a double pillar which beta
or the same time to both,—being the last of the one ponieosnd the ﬁrst of their!
Within the portiooes, apartments have been built: some, which contain both:
open to those who are disposed to apply themselves In the study of Philosophpn ,
oﬂ'er to the whole city on easy means of acquiring wisdom: the other: have he:
consecrated to the worship of the ancient gods. These ponieoes have a rent at:
mented with gilding. and the capitals of the columns are of copper gilt. The“
is decorated with embellishments of diﬂ'erent kinds: ach part has in own: that:
one place where we see the battles of Perseus. In the midst of the count rise!
pillar of extraordinary height, and which serves to make this spot constituent i1 ,
when one arrives, one would not know where to go if this column did In: sum \
a sign to point out the ways. It makes the citadel as conspicuous to rhesus"
sea as to those on land. 0n the capital of the pillar are placed all round It: at I
merits of everything that exists.‘—There are some variations," De Sue-y peso“ ‘
observe, “between the description of Aphthonius, and that of the Austin: Ill!!! ‘
but they are of little consequence. I suppose that the rhetorician points an. i! 3
last sentence, the dome erected on the capital of the pillar, which entrained a? ,
the principal divinities to whom created things owe their existence, or sy'tl'lll'l'k 9‘ I
the elements." De Saey then declares his belief that this place is no other that! ,
Ssnnua, in arriving at which belief; he follows Suabo‘s account of the pit“
of that temple.

On the summit of the column is a socket. The question is what it held. I? 1
thonius says, as we see, “ the elements of everything that exists.” Abdallatil’ 5"
on it a cupola: while, according to other Arabian writers, it once supported a brat!
statueI which was melted down for coin. On the whole, it seems to De Sol-7m
able to suppose that the pillar supported a small observatory, wherein were I?
sented astronomical ﬁgures, and deposited the equinoctial circles spoken of ”I!“
for observations by other writers. . ,

Enough seems now to be known to relieve the traveler in Egypt from the W
uncertainty under which his predecessors have n’ll recently gazed upon Panﬂ'
Pillar. '

B.—p. 56.

Directions have been given in abundance by preceding travelers to web
may follow them up the Nile and across the Desert, about preparations for the ‘fj
pedition. Without repeating what Sir G. Wilkinson and others have said I! n“
as possible, I may give a few hints which may be of use at least to ladies

Every traveler who is going to the East must, if he values health and _ _
take the sleeping apparatus which is called Levinge's bag. A full acconnlof" "
to be found in Sir G. Wilkinson's “Modern Egypt and Thebes." The makeﬂ W"
not persuade the purchaser to desert the original make,—with one circle of all?"
for a more complicated and expensive one. The simplest is the most con
and, as I can testify,answers every purpose. The comfort of this bag, in those 1'"
are nervous about vermin, or easily annoyed by them, is inestimable. The mull
that one is safe from every intruder tends of itself to give one good nights- Tb!
traveler will, of course, see that his bag is never left open tbr a moment; and_ N
no one is ever allowed to put a hand within it who mnnot be trusted for clack“?
It is suﬂiciently aired by being shaken out of doom—the muslin of the canopy 59“
coarse enough to admit the air freely. The coarser the muslin the bananas W”
it keeps out ﬂeas. '

The under should not be alarmed if he ﬁnds he sleeps little dun'nz 5")”
Page-523
mm. 521

iournoy. Ifhe is kept awake by vermin or by fever, of course, that is a grut evil:
but an easy quiet sleeplessness will do him less harm than he might suppose.
There is, I imagine, something in the mode of life,-—the absenu of one's ordinary
business, and the stimulating inﬂuences of an open air life which makes sleep less
necessary than at home. However this may be, i know many travelers who band,
an I did, that less sound sleep, and much less of it, than at home. did them no harm
while abroad; and that they resumed their regular sleeping habits on their return.
It is worth mentioning this, to save any inexperienced traveler from the suppodtion
that he is or will be ill, because he cannot sleep as he does at home.

As to the very disagreeable subject of the vermin which abound peculiarly in

Egypg—lice,—-it is right to say a few words. Alter every eﬂ'ort to the contrary, I
am compelled to believe that they are not always,—-nor usually,—caught from the
people about one: but that they appear of their own accord in one‘s clothes, if worn
an hour too long. I do not recommend a discontinuance of ﬂannel clothing in
Egypt. I think it quite as much wanted there as anywhere else. But it must be
carefully watched. The best way is to keep two aniolu in wear, for alter-rule
days ;—one on, and the other hanging up at the cabin window,—il' there is an inner
cabin. The crew wash for the traveler; and he should be particular about having
it done amording to his own notions, and not theirs, about how alien it should be.
This extreme care about cleanliness is the only possible precaution, I believe: and
it does not always avail: but it keeps down the evil to an endurahle point. As far
as our experience went. it was only within the limits of Egypt that the annoyance
occurred at all. Fleas and bugs are met with: but not worse than at bad French
and Italian inns.

The traveler should carry half a dozen gimlers, stuck into a cork, and daily at
hand. They serve as a bolt to doors which have no fastening, as pins to anything
he wants to fasten or keep open, as pegs to hang clothes, or watch, or thermometer
upon; as a convenience in more ways than couldbe supposed beforehand—Two or
three squares of Mackintosh cloth are a great oomfort,-—for keeping bedding dry,—
for ablation, and for holding one‘s clothes in bathing. By substituting them for car-
pets, also, in Nile boats, there is a relief from danger of vermin.

As for dress,—the ﬁrst consideration, both for gentlemen and ladies, is to have
every possible article made of material that can be washed :—gloves, among the
rest. Cotton or thread gloves are of no use, unless of the sloutest kind. The hands
are almost as much burned with these as with none. Woodstock gloves (whicbbear
washing well) are good, though, of course, they do not look very handsome.—-Bmwn
holland is the best material for ladies’ dresses; and nothing looks better, if set of
with a little trimming of ribbon,which can be put on and taken 03' in a few minutes.

—Round straw hats, with a broad brim. such as may be bad at Cairo for As. or 53.,

are the best head-covering. A double ribbon, which bears taming when faded, will

last a long time, and looks better than a more ﬂimsy kind—There can hardlybetoo
large a stock of thick-soled shoes and [roots The rocks of the Desert cut up pre-
sently all but the stoutest shoes: and there are no more to be had—Caps and frills
of lace or muslin are not to be thought of, as they cannot be “ got up,” unless by the
wearer‘s own hands. Habit-shirts of Irish linen or thick muslin will do: and, in-
stead of cans, the tarhoosh, when within the cabin or tent, is the most convenient.
and certainly the most becoming head-gear: and the little cotton cap worn under it
is washed without trouble—Fans and goggles,—goggles of black woven wire,-—-are
indispensable—No lady who value: her peace on the journey, or desires any free-
dom of mind or movement, will take a maid. What can a poor English girl do who
must dispense with hornecomfons, and endure hardships that she never dreamed
of, without the intellectual enjoyments which to her mistress compensate (if they do
compensate) for the inconveniences of Eastern travel:‘ If her mistress has any fore
right, or any compassion, she will leave her at home. If not, she must make up her
mind to ill-humor or tears, to the spectacle of wrath or daspondency, all the way.

—ll‘ she will have her maid. let her, at all events, have the girl taught to ride,«—and

to ride well: or she may have much to answer for. To begin to ride at her years

is bad enough, even at borne, where there may be a choice of horses, and the rides
Page-524
522 am.

are only moderate in length. What isapoor creaturetodowhoisputupon adieu!
horse, ass, or camel, day by day, for rides of eight hoars’ long, for weeks m!
The thighs and distress so caused are terrible to witness, as 1 can veetiljy,—thae_zli
we were happily werned‘ in time, and went nnincumbered by English servants sl-
together. Of course, the lady herself' is sure of her ability to ride to this extent; or
she will put herself into training before she leaves home.

As to diet—our party are all of opinion that it is the safest way to eat and
drink, as nearly as possible, as one does at home. It may be worth mandating ch:
the syrups and acids which some travelers think they shall like in the Decca-gale an!
wholesome, nor so roikeshing as might be anticipated. Ale end porter are and
batten—as remarkably wholesome and refieahing as they are at seg Tea and
ooﬂ'ee are plea-at everywhere. Ladies who have courage to do what is pod i
them, and agreeable to them. in new circumstances, in disregard of former preje
dices, will try the virtues of the chihouque while in the East: and if they like it, they
will go on with it as long as they feel that they want it. The chiboaqne would not
be in such universal use as it is in the East, if there were not stme reams: in it‘
and the reason is that it is usually found eminently good for health. I found it e:
and I saw no more reason why I should not take it than why English ladies shoals
not the their daily glass of sherry at homer—an indulgence which I do not need.
I continued the use of my chibouque for some weeks after my return ; and then left
it 03' only on account of its inconvenience: and in the East, it is not inconvenient
The traveler there ﬁnds that his reasonable diagnstat the eigensmoking of our sues-ts
does not apply to the Eastern practice. The quality of the tobacco, and the length
of the pipe (in which the essential oil is condensed, instead of being imbibed hytbr
smoker) make the whole aﬂ‘air something wholly diﬂ‘ercnt from any smoking known
in England. I need not say that every traveler is absolutely obliged to appear n
smoke, on all occasions of visiting in the East: and if any lady ﬁnds refreshment
and health in the practice, I hope I need not my that she should continue it, ask-E;
as she is subject to the extraordinary lhtigues of her new position.

She must not expect health in those countries: and she had better not be discourage!
or alarmed if she ﬁnds herself seldom in a state of bodily case. If she takes ration-l
care, and makes up her mind cheerfully to the temporary indisposition, she trill
probably be as well as ever when she gets home. Her chief care should be to hat
to the health of her mind,—to see that she keeps her faculties awake and free.
whether she is ill or well; that in the future time she may hope to be et only in
possession of her English health, and the stores of knowledge and imagery she is
laying up by her Eastern travel.

C.—p. 65.

In a paper delivered by the Rev. Dr. Abelten before the Egyptian Society at
Cairo, occurs the following passage. Dr. Abeken was a member of Dr. Lepsim’s

ny.

Speaking of Some, in that part of Nubia which lies between Wadee Half- end
Dongola, Dr. Abeken says:

“But the most interesting point connected with this locality, is a number of in-
scriptions engraved partly on the rocks, partly on the walls built against the moun-
tain, as substructions to the buildings. They are short, containing a date with a
king's name from the above-mentioned Twelnh Dynasty (most by Amenemhe Ill.)
and beginning with a hieroglyphical group, which at ﬁrst sight it was evident could
mean nothing but the Might of tin Nils at that data, being literally Month or Opening
of the Nile. We were ﬁrst struck by these inscriptions on some fallen blocks on
the eastern bank, where it was evident from the position of the inscriptions tint
they had been engraven before the stones had fallen; afterwards we found many of
them on the eastern bank in their original piece, but at a height which the Nile
never attains now, being no less than 9-10 metres above the present highest weer.
These ancient water marks, therefore, appear to prove that before the time of the
Shepherds, the Nile, in that part of Nubia, must have risen much higher than at
present; and do support, I think, most conclusively, the opinion that at that period
Page-525
unnerx. 623

there must have existed in the Cataracts a bar to the river much greater than what
is now to be found there; that owing to this bar, the Nile in those times rose in
Nubia, not in Egypt, to a height never attained new, and thereby formed the deposit
of fertile soil which we found in Upper Nubia, at distances and heights wholly
unaccountable from its present rise; that at a later period this bar was broken down
by some great revolution, which also caused the {all of the above-mentioned blocks,
and in consequence of which the waters above the Cataracts were brought down to
the some level as those below them, and thus deprived Nubia to a great extent of
the beneﬁt of the inundation—For a more detailed account, I must refer to Dr.
Lepsius‘s able development of his views in his Report to the Berlin Academy of
Sciences, where will also be seen the connection which he most ingeniously estab-
lishes between these water-marks, belonging almost exclusively to one reign, and
the great works said to have been executed by King Maris for the irrigation of the
Fsyoom and Lower Egypt.”—R¢port of the Egyptian Society, lS45.—pp. 13-14.

THE END.
Page-526
Digmzed by ($00816
Page-527
CATALOGUE
OF

LEA AND BLANCHARD’S
PUBLICATIONS.

 

THE AMERICAN ENCYCLOPEDIA.
BROUGHT UP TO 1347.

THE E NGYCLOPEDIA AMERICANA:

A POPULAR. DICTIONARY

OF ARTS, SCIENCES, LITERATURE. HISTORYl POLITICS
AND BIOGRAPHY.

1N FOURTH“ LARGE OCTAVO VOLUMES OF OVER SIX HUNDRED DOUBLE
COLUMN“ PAGES EACH.

Por all: very low. In nrious styles of binding.

During the long riod which this work has been before the public. it
has attuned I very igh character as In

ENCYCLOPEDIA FOR DAILY REFERENCE.

Containi , in a com tively moderate l ace, a vast uantity of infome-
tion whic is scarce to he me: With e eewhere, an of the em! kind
which is wented in t e daily ex' encies of conversation and reading. It
he. also I recommendation shared y no other work of the kind now before
the public, in bei In American book. The numerous American Biogra-

hiea, Accounts 0 American Inventions and Discoveries, References to our

oIitieII Institutions, and. the enerIl adaptation of the whole to our own
peculiar thitI and made- of _ ought. peculiarly suit it to readers in this
country. From these causes, it is also eepeciully ﬁtted for all

DISTRICT SCHOOL AND OTHER. PUBLIC LIBRARIES.

In some of which it has been tried with greet satisfaction. It fulﬁls. to I
greater extent than perhnps any similar work. the requirements for these
metitutions. resenting, in e smell com nee and price, the nintennls of I
library. and urnishing a book for every- :1 use and reference, indispensable
to those removed from the large public (:0 lections.

Some ears ha ‘ els sed since the original thirteen volumes of the
ENCY LOPEDI A ERICANA were ubiiehed, to bring it up to
the present day, with the history of that peri , It the request 0 numerous
subscribers, the publishers have just issued I

SUPPLEMENTARY VOLUME (THE FOURTEENTH).
BRINGING THE WORK UP TO THE YEAR 1847

EDITED BY HENRY VETHAKE, Lia-D.

mmmmuwmmmuummnwdmmemd
“AMI-Wm!

In one large octIvo volume of over 650 double columnod pages.
Page-528
LEA AND BLANCEARD'S PUBLICATIONS.

 

ENCYCLOPEDIA AMERICANA.

 

The mmem- mhocn'ben who have been waiting the completi- d 1%
volume an new perfect their Ian, und .11 who want

A REGISTER OF THE EVENTS 01" THE LAST mm
YEARS. FOR THE WHOLE WORLD.

unobtniudli-volnmou tel: rioo'l‘woDoﬂmmlinduLc
Two Dollar- Ind Fifty Cenpgnin linger, to much the “yin it what
publiahen have been selling um.

Subscn'ben in the large cilia unbe npplied on application I: my dlh
principal book-(ores; Ind persons. residing in tin conga! an In" Iii
Ion mllahod by sending I volume in chug- of funds uniting :5. day.

‘ Complete new furnished at very low price- in various binding;

~mnmumwmmum-um‘

mmummmmmmmm min-unﬂ-
MWEMWMmme-uﬂhMrbwyﬁ
muhmmdnmhmmdﬂt Man‘s-Huh-
immnmmmbﬁpmmwmuhu
mammhm-ﬂw—ﬁwhmﬁhmxhuq-u
m nwan.MtMMI-w. hhmmﬂ
n-u-nnw. mummmmmuhuumhi—
whmmmn;mmumnmmﬁmua
mmmumw.nmmwmwmhn
mmmubemhm Tam-phm-lminlkmﬂh
hum—IMWVMIMWMIM—m
Wmnﬁnudamlhnmdm-Mhbb-wdmhhhﬂl
mwum—nmmumummu
mm-mwm m-mhb-I-WM‘q
mummmmmmmmmuM—m
uwmwdmummmmu-umm—amp
Wollhﬂirh-mlm mummuthu—x
“Mm-mummw,m.lﬂm.hﬂh-hhp_
vﬂmammhmh-hﬁm “mt-ul-
midemdmhmmmdhmmuh—l
hmmhmamm

-mu—ummwmuuumdm.dd_b
tummyJI-lﬂth nmwtk—hmdwﬁﬂy“ h
“mwmhmnhlh Yd 1h)-

-mmmmm;um-wmuau
mmmumm-mmmmdmm
Mumwummwmmmm
Ink“

:mmdeh-Wummimwﬂ VB
”mumwmmF—MIMW-ﬂ ,

-mwhﬁummm-umh-ummwm
Mbmhﬁmﬁbmmdmm. ”Minna—.1-
Mwmhnmdhm-uhoIMWWIwNp—ddtl
W-mmdhmmtmhhnhhmwhw‘
hummmmmhmmyumumnm 1"—
dumhmlﬁmdﬂn-‘wmduwﬁIw.
mummdmmmmn kthhﬂiﬂl-c-h-i-
ummeh-ﬁummmm‘m-mwu‘
tuumwdmm.mwxumdm.m.ur-u~m
Page-529
LEA AND BLANCHARD'S PUBLICATIONS.

CAMPBELL’ S LORD CHAN CELLORS.

JUST PUBLISHED.

[IVES DF TIIE LDIID CHANGELLDIIS AND KEEPEII3 DF TIIE
' GREAT SEAL OF ENGLAND,

mu m Inna-r m 10 TH! ml}! 0' m om] ".,
BY JOHN LORD CAMPBELL, AM. PM
Fink Series, forming three neat volumes in demy octave, extn cloth. ‘
Bringing the work to ﬂu time ofLwd left-I'd.
m neon: mm WILL anon“ ronmw In you). wanna: 'm Incl.

“nhmtruwmmwwhmmmmmmwwhmuuh
mathIphnhlh-mdnl andwlndlibﬂllilywim'hichhhnmﬂyudmum
mmw-mwmummwmmmmmmynh
«(khan-ﬂu. Womdhﬂbwmummnlwﬂhmhumtmmdnuun
aflhhp-rfonnuen. numpmnI-rladiuoﬂhmmlhmmﬂdentwﬂnmMM
lhighmian Imhknxlhh “Llama! ”incl—mulled“

~mwmmmmmmwmmmdwwmmm
umhlon‘iumdmnw't Thnwukhmnnlyh'ﬂuulndblwnphicd,wnh
Mud-NW hyden-wymmimm-mu-wmh,
tho publimnon mnyhang-nladudlhichhuﬂoauﬂ «duff—m.

'Aworkianh-ndmochmvdumqvhhhmshﬂmuduboﬁumndﬂ
mmmhbnry. AmﬁlhhrdcmnanndWMfmmlMWmdlh
mummy-marthuImmMum-uchmmmdm-xine
domandth-uvohmauemvﬂhlwnﬂddmﬂwunmdthmmmmm
“Midland",uwll-wiﬂlmofmwmkmpmdww
mind."—&mquo-Im

"Tho Mﬂmtmdthhwwkhmhndhhynmmrmlhm Bk
mmnlylh-wﬂbrillimt omnibutionmhglish hhtory made within our neolIeaimch-a
mamwmurmmmmwhmMMw-Mmmmm
«(MI—MERE“;

MURRAY’S ENCYCLOPEDIA 0F GEOGRAPHY.
THE ENCYCLOPEDIA DF GEOGRAPHY,

man
A COMPLETE DESCRIPTION OF THE EARTH. PHYSICAL,
STATISTICAL, CIVIL AND POLITICAL.

urn-nun

ITS RELATION N THE HEAVINLY BOD ITS PHYSICAL STRUCI'URL TH]
NATURAL HISTORY OI" EACH COUN Y. AND THE INDUSTRY,
00ch POLITICAL INSTITUTION AND CIVIL
AND 5061A]. STATE OF ALL NA IONS.

BY HUGH MURRAY, F.R.8.E., 6w.

A“ l- lama . Prob-or HOOKER—bung,“ w. w. SWAINSON—AM In.
51'3“ WALLACE—Guam. .0“,an ummou. '

RIVIIED, WITH ADDlTlollg
BY THOMAS G. BRADFORD.
TH: WHOLE HROUGHT HEB? A SUPPLEMENT,T0 1801
In [Am largo odm 00km.
VAllova ranIs or )Iunllo.

Thin gnu work. furnished at a remarkably cheap rate. contain: thou:
Nun-nu Human unol nlrulu. PAGE, and I: Illustrated by Emm-
Two sum. Mufs. and a colored Mn or TE! UNI'I'ID Suns, after Tun
3:21, together With About. Euvu Hunnn Woon Cm nomad in tho

my .
Page-530
LEA AND BLANCHARD'S PUBLICATIONS.

_STRICKLAND’S QUEENS OF ENGLAND.
A NEW AND ELEGANT EDITION

0?
[IVES OF THE QUEENS OF ENGLAND,
FROM THE NORMAN conquns'r;

mmmormncoummwmnmmmm
mmmmsﬂmc mam‘ismmsnsswm AS PU“

nnw spines, wr'rn annuioxs sun 00133011013.
BY ACNE 3 STRICXLLND.

m 3mm“ mmm-lll 27.1%"mﬂ‘mm- "“h

Volume One, of nesrl¥ seven hundred largo psges, containing Volnnu
One, Two, and Three. 0 the duqdccimo editionv and Volume Two, of man
lhsn six hundred pfes, containing Volumes Four and Five of the than.
have just been issue . The remainder will follow rapidly, two volume i
one, and the whole will form an elegant set of one of the most popular hi-
tories ol' the day. The publishers have one to much expense in pn-
pnring this from the revrsed and improved ondon edition, to meet the ﬁne-
quent inquiries for the “ Lives of the Queens of England," in better
lar er type, and ﬁner pnper than has heretofore been accessible to readers
in ' country. Any volume of this edition sold separately.

 

A few copies still on hand of the Duodecimo Edition. Ten volume. a
now ready. Vol. I.—Comni_ns Matilda of Flanders, Matilda of Scotland.
Adelicia of Louvsine, Matilda of Boulo ne, and Eleanor of night.
Price 50 cents, in fancy pa er. Vol. II.— erenguris of Navarre,“
of Angouleme Eleanor o Provence. Eleanor of Camila, M erized'
France, lubelln of France, Philippa of Huinnull, and Anne of '
Price 50 cents. Vol. [IL—Isabella of Vslois, Joanna of Navarre, Kuhn-
rine of Valois, Margaret of An'ou, Elizabeth Woodville, and Ann of “Far-
wick. Price 50 cents. Vol. I .—-Elizubeth of York. Katharine of Am
Anne Boleyn, Jane Seymour, Anne of Cleves, and Kathuine Howard.
Price 65 cents. Vol. V.—Kstharins Part and Queen Mary. Price 65 an.
Vol. VI.—-Queen Elizabeth. Price 65 cents. VoL VII—Queen Elinbach

continued), and Anne of Denmark. Price 65 cents. Vol. Ville—Handed:

aria and Catharine of Bra anza. Price 65 cents. Vol. IX.——lhry d
Modem. Price 75 cents, ol. X.—Mnry of Modern (continued), std
Mary H. Price 75 cents.

Any volume sold separately. or the whole to much In nest (no. em.
JUST PUBLISHED
v 0 I. U n 3 '1‘ 3 R:

WITHIN“
MARY OF MODENA, AND MARY II.

Price 75 cents in fsncy pawn—Also. in extra green cloth.

“'I'hsssvnlnnsshlnlhn ma-mwummquﬁ—m
“A mmmiommmmnm

'"chlnlen‘mg' and WleHﬂsnminwhiehm-mmth ofhﬂnryhhdu
Wlll‘ln- of mm, will mnuiluls I vslushls addition to our Nousphual Manuf—h:

~Ammmmuwmmu WWI“; [Ia-tab
III-0f_ hwummmraﬁw,nhi¢nﬂ Indmssmhcnllduilsa. w:
hsvedm mummmmmmmn—M

“The nonollhlswnrh‘ summon-rowan. amp-inh- hall-I.- uh
Immmmmuslﬂmym " -
‘Lchumlngwmt—Mldhmumwiousudphuhg.”—MM
‘smehsmi hm hial '. W nclud uprasung‘ mm‘
“hm“:‘mmmmlinumufmddzlmmﬂﬂml-
W‘s “nod th- M"—me [hull-
Page-531
LEA AND BLANCHARD‘S PUBLICATIONS.

SCHOOL BOOKS.

SGHMITZ AND ZUMPT’S CLASSICAL SERIES.

VOLUII I.

C. JULII CESARIS
COMMENTARII DE BELLO GALLICO.

WITH AN mmwmm. NOTE. ANDA GMMMCAL INDIX IN ENGLISH,
A180. A MAP or SAUL. AND ILLUmA'l'IVE ENGRAVINGS.
In an- III-home the. alum. mu clam.

Thi- lgrie: hum plum under the oditorhl nun-game!!! ohm eminent Ida-rim
und menu] union. DI. Benn: Realm of the High School. Edinburgh. Ind DI.
2mm. froth-or In th- Uniunlly ol‘ Berlin. Ind will combine the knowing laun-

ﬁaﬂﬂ’, mmﬁamugnhw uniform plan-onlomumntownhh I

luminmuhthemimnmywl Ihlchwmh-unnhlrlmountolkm-

': :mﬁmrmmmf‘mmru “° "w M“

an u: n .1 50min: mmntoolkﬂond

.. .u. 5:253! mama-m5: 3;“... 555:5: m m“

5 35:55:55.5“: 555% '* “mmmm
11w

wugjfumlﬂy.m1lNWVKhMp-liﬂmhlm—mm
_ mwmumnhmmmummdmmmm
mm

mmvdm-muudu‘mmmhmuhu In chm—
ummmmlmmonimmudmav tori-lemma; nth:

' ﬂu nl' MIMI-d ' ' '
.5“. m wr- MIMI-oompldud with]

From Inna; mo lam-uni»: which tho publinhen hue mind. they append the
{allowing In mow um the Mi;- of tho III-i- hu bnn lull] Ind mummuyurﬂd

“ti-
”WWW-"Jill 8,131

[In-MM hl-d'lh “undo-ﬁGdHoWunh “[211qu
mnHMngugmrﬂcmklm-h wmwdwm
mum-mum Ill-inhuman. ma awn-ﬂ all ovum
um nintlndhﬁnn.ﬁhﬂnum-uﬁnllmmﬁlmnnda lit-amends:-
nu-u- ofmlurninc. hunnimmhuhnpuuandmrngﬁuun
Mum . I I mnhmmhngmpuﬂwm alumina!

nwmft'h mud [mum All who mu II lhxmminulon.
Vunly.YouvouLaq-n.
_Jonxsruui1‘

Tau—thaw Wmmm
0.1-“.— Mala“.

‘ mama-mmwmminmwmdcmumm
meow-.1“ Ion-mandam- ' ofD_n.$1-Jnmilzlnd2nmp!hun-

Mndﬂumnl ' “min-Lion. [Munch-l in .uzuth'dnknoxpn—ed In
mmdmwmhmuﬂulbmwgbﬂ. ﬂutlhnwurRMWIllcunu-
Wmmmmuﬁl Thakalnunlobomm' II. Theme”
«wankewmnmummam-5mm mmmwm:
m I ‘3 . I o

“'th htmdﬂmnmuhmhnahitﬁrvgon clﬁﬂ'lﬂ’ulr
Mimmwmmﬁm

 

!

iép is!

g
3

 

VOLVII “a

P. VlﬂGllll MARDNIS CARMINA.

NEARLY REAI‘Y. f
Page-532
LIA AND BLANCHARD‘S PWHCATIOIS.

.SCHOOL BOOKS.
BIND’S NATURAL PHILOSOPHY.

NEARLY nzun.
ELEMENTS OF NATURAL PHILOSOPHY»

mmmmnmwwnolmmmwm
mmmwmmmn III-alum

BY GOLDING BIRD, LLB.
mmhewsm
PRO! THE THIRD LONDON IDXTION.
banana-8mm...
«(Dnm‘lwurthotudthumlﬂHhouHIh—ﬂ

“Dyna-mam
end-.InIIw-lmixwdroln 'nnada uolnuunl ' may!” hi!-
pll lam-p, all ﬂint-Id Dyna-lum- ﬁmu"—Hd&lm

ARNOTT‘S PHYSICS.

m1! 0!" PHYSICS; 0R, NATURAL PHILOSOPHY.
GENERAL AND MEDICAL.
mm: 17W“. 05!, [NEARLOR NON-m “MM

3! IIELL AIIO’I'T, 8.9.
A IIW IDITION, BY ISAAC EATI, tn.
Own-Iain one oeuvo volume.witl nearly two human] mu.

mnandudwogl mmluad'hmﬂyM-mdmh‘mmﬂﬁ
dhhmmnm B-MV-bwhwdmhw

ELEMENTARY CHEMISTRY, THEORETICAL AND PRACTICAL

BY GEORGE FOWNES, P3. D.,
awmmmmwwmwu

WXTE NUMEROUS ILLUITRATIOI‘.
Inm,wrm ADDITIONS.

BY ROBERT BRIDGES. M.D..
mummmwmmwmmmm.mh
IICOND Allnlcll IDXTION.

In one lute duodecimo volume. may or um doth. with nearly In
hundred wooden;

mamdeMHMummnm-umnmmmnpmn
hu—bqak. llI-Mberoughlu www.mhivymlﬂmehlnm-nddmu‘”
menllnlydunged the Martha vagina-Jud numpleulyiﬂmmmlw
woudgmvimpxphnpmdlllthadlﬂcnmwudhrmdw MM
denuhnhwnummlhmlclpameumWydﬂhmhmmhm
”I?“ wwwnzmmmummwm ~mm h... - .m-
‘ guy we m .nr up]: I!“
WWI-chat“

 

 

 

 

 

 

BHEWSTEII'S OPTIGS.

lhlnnll'ﬂ or OITIOI,
BY [IR DAVID 31mm.
WITH '0'!!! All! ADDITIONS. I, A. I7. BACHI, LI..D-

Burn-(Mun a! th- Cod Sum. hr.
In no mm, mm. with numenmu Man.
Page-533
LEA AND BLANCHARD‘S PUBLICATIONS.

.$CHOOL BOOKS.
BOIMAR’S FRENCH SERIES.

New oditiona of the following works. I: A. Bouun, forming, in con.
nectinn with “Bolmar'u Lavina," I comp eta urine for the acquisition of
ﬂip French lug-age.

A SELECI'ION OF ONE HUNDRED PERRIN’S FABLB,
ACCOH PANIED BY A KEY.

OoIlII “Allen. I literal and {no lrInIlIlinn. Imn‘ed in met. I Inlnner II to
point on mdmennce between the Prune! Ind Engmh Idiom. a. in 1 vol., mm.

A COLLmN OF COLLOQUIAL PHRASE,
0N EVERY TOPIC NECESSARY TO MAINTAIN CONVERSATION.

Arr-Iced under dictum lieu-is. will! tau-emu nmrh on the peeuliIr pmnnndluol
Ind qu or Vll'iolll worth; the whole In cli- u consider-My to tmiiilIle m.
Inquisition If I was“ pronunciuion or the Inch. In i 701.. iﬂmo.

LR AVENTURE DE TELEMAQUE PAR FENELON,

ll 1 vol.. 12mm IecompInied by I Key to [be ﬁre! eight hookl. in 1 vol.. 12mm. eon-
uinin . lite the min. the an. I mar-I and tree mnmnonJr-unm II I mud
to ma Iblu. Em»! volume Ioid IepIrIlely.

ALL THE FRENCH VERBS, '
Boll! regain Ind irregular. in a unIll volume.

MULLER’S PHYSICS.

NEARLY READY.

PRINCIPLES OF PHYSIGS AND METEOROLOBY.

B Y J. M U L L E I .

mm of Hay-h II “II Univenily at Mimi-g.
mmmmm-mmnnr cinnamon mum-rm:
comm rum
In one oclIvo volume.

m Editio- il Inwvud by the Illrlllion ol' variou- Inlciel. Ind will be (hand in
every rupee: brought. up lo the lime or publiulion.

"I‘he Mafluilnil Imhmwrh emulate. un‘ no: thagreIleslwInt known to by.
M Sa'm mid no: haw: boon better lum‘aliod‘P The WEE-k inuf lupin-in; imam. “to VIluI
oﬂhi conuilnﬁm la the Iclanhﬂc moani- nllhia country may be duly estimated by “In (Id, that
m “of the original dnwinu Ind Inn-Vina IlanI nu cxooodul lhI mm or NL"—Lamu.

MW-
BIITLEII'S ANCIENT ATLAS.

A! ATLAE OP ANCIENT GEOGRAPHY,
BY SAMUEL BUTLER. D.D.,
IAII Loni Binhw o! Lilohﬁeld.
conmnn m-nn cowVIn IAN. An A colrun Acclll'ﬂufln Ilnlx.
In om octIvo volume. hIIf-bound.

BUTLER’S ANCIENT EEOGHAPHY.

GEOGRAPEIA OLAEBIOAh
OI. m APPLICATION OF ANCIENT GEOGRAPHY T0 1‘ a cum

3! SAMUEL BUTLBE, 13.10., 113.3.

REVISED BY His SON.
nrrl AmIIJAl. no: 1’!!! un wxnoI Damn.

WITH QUESTIONS ON THE NAPS, BY JOHN no".
nmmwium,huf-md.mmmhm1iun
Page-534
LEA AND BLANCHARD'S PUBLICATIONS.

SCHOOL BOOKS.
WHITE’S UNIVERSAL HISTORY.

LATILY roams-In.

Inlnnll'l‘l or VIIVEIIAL 8181'081.
on A NEW AND “swans-no rm:

mxmzmmmrommnnormnmwmmnms
“WY 0? THE LEADING um: SINCE mrrnmmm
NOFSCIDOLSANDMVATISTUDM
I! 3. WHITE, 8A.,
TIIIITY COLLIOI. CAIIIIIIL

WITH ADDITIONS AND QUESTIONS,

BY JOHN B. BART. Ll.
mammwlphnmmmmdmmmhhn
In one volume, lsrge dnodecimo. neatly bound with Muno- Duh.

Thiswork is Iml'lFBd on a newplan, which ishelievedtoeousb'netb
adunlages of thoee ormerl in use. It is divided into three parts, eure-
spond'ux with Ancient, Mid lo, end Modern History; which ports an epi-
suhdivi into centuries. so that the "nous events In presumed ‘1: lb
order of time. while it is so arranged that the annsls of each country an ho
rend consecutively, thus combiningrthe advantages of both the hitherto
par-nod in works of this kind. 0 guide the researches the end...
there will be found numerous synopticnl tables. with rennrks Ind 3km
of literature. antiquities, and manners, at the great chronol ' M.

The additions of the American editor have been 11 ' ' y oouﬁrnrl h
the chspters on the history of this coon . The serieo of goo-tinn- hy hi-
will he found of use to those who pre or that system of mmtion. F.
those who do not. the publishers have had an edition prepored without tho

 

 

 

uestious. '
q Thie work has already passed through several editions, and Ins Inn
introduced into many of the higher Schools and Academies th tho

country. From smong numerous recommendations which they ve n-
eeivad. the publishers mnex the following from the Deputy Sum
of Common Schools for New York:

Oﬂoe. man 1
War-m l sou-.m'h'igia
Hunt-{Mtg

Deanna—thu- unlined theoopynl'Whlte‘s Unites-l Mfwhlliyr-w—n
MuhwmmmdeVMhmmdhm-e-
Mud-lawnmdthWHlﬂunWtwﬂwha-wdh-‘D
mjnmhm-lpminJlndyhﬂow-imit [twin-bum
Mahmﬂwwﬂhm; ﬁlmmdbuuanh‘.
mmdmmm Vsryrupufullyqanrwm

SAMUELI RANDALL.
“Mb“
mmlssdmhnhlyeﬂenluulform Ind otherhhrlrl-un editinnh M urn-o
MowmhpnwedJnunahmduh.

HEHSGHELL'S ASTRONOMY.

A TRIATIII 0H ASTROIOE",
IY Ell JOHN F. W. nuscnnu. P. 3.3..kc.
“WHEAT-“DUNN
All" mx.wn'nllrm:nc: ANDAWOPQUM
BY 3. O. WALKER.
honevolune.12mo.
Page-535
LEA AND BLANCHARD’S PUBLICATIONS.

IIOSGOE’S LIVES OF THE KINGS OF ENGLAND.
TO MATCH MISS STRICKIIAND'S “QUEENS."
woman on, can't-Ammo 'I-nI

LIFE OF WILLIAM THE CONQUEROR.

In nee! royal duodeclnlo. exlru cloth. or fancy paper.

"The W reader will ﬁnd IIIII I wark ofpecuﬂarinum. IHIIIPII nlhmnghm In.
I“ pun-mm; rue-rob, and I rule of nnmh've which III! III the IucnIIty Ind strength of
Gibbon. IthIwomwilhwhmﬂIumingtuahI Inweuehmiﬂndinmilwmdo

upon Sui-h Inelary, every lihnry ought Ia be proud ”—Srnda' Inna.

MEMOIRS OF THE LOVES OF THE POETS.

Biogrnphicnl Sketches of Women celebrated In Anclent In]
Modern Poetry.
BY AIRS. JAMIESON.
In one royal duodecimn volume, price 75 came.

FREDERICK THE GREAT, IIIS COURT AND TIMES.
EDITED, WITH AN INTRODUCTION, BY THOMAS CAMP-
BELL. ESQ, AUTHOR OF THE “PLEASURES 0F HOPE."
Second Series. In two duodecimo volumes, extra cloth.

HISTORY OF CONGRESS,

nHIBIT'ING A CLA§IFICATION 0? THE PROCEEDINGS OF THE SENATE AND m
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, FROM I73! T0 was. EMBRACING THE FIRST
TERM OI" THE ADMINISTRATION OI" GENERAL WASHINGTON.

In one large octave volume of over 700 pages, price only 81.50.

HOOBI’S IRELAND—NOW OOMFIIETE.

THE HISTORY OF IRELAND,

m 111:: tum KINGS or THAT REALM DOWN TO ITS u'nxr Gum
In two octnvo vqumca, extra cloth.

Ir. Inor- IIII II INTI mplelcd hi: Hllmry of IrrIInII mnlniru’nz the Inc: troubled Ind Infan-
nggrindl thrown which I! IIII: 'I'lIuee WIIII IInve [maul Ihernrelvee qr mm I
hr ll Gran Stadium mum loud in I515. can pmcure the second volume IanrIle.

HISTORY OF THE WAIT IN FRANCE ANO BELGIUM IN 1815,

WNTAINING MINUTE DEFAIIS OF THE IIAT'I' l. BS 017 QUATRID-BRAB, LIGNY. WAV’RI
AND WATI-Jllum.

BY CAPTAIN W. SIBOBNH.
In one octavo volume. with Maps and Plans of Battles. &c., viz.- .:

I. Perl of Belgium. ‘ndwileDLhﬁaJ dismhnlmn of "In armies oII _enmmenanﬁ WHO-.1 mu
Monro-Bree. n I o‘PcIock Field of Qualre- IIrII. III" . II'Pclucl c Fig hny,
II MIQl-ﬂll‘ not zo'clock. I‘ M. 5. ﬁeld ofl. Iniy. ll lmlr‘ms sa'clork. P M 6. Field oIWIInn-

nIﬂ-er nu! ll o‘clock. A. II. 7. Hold III' Wnlur man I quIﬂcr befuImSII‘clui P M.
[“0wa JWIIQI‘IOO. I! 5mmnl£n I 8 o'clock. P. M. 9. I-‘wId of“. '.Ivm IN u'clork P 51’. Ian
June I0. Pu-Id oanvre. nl {o'q .A II. IOIh Juno. IL Part III anoo,nn which in Iho'l
Ike II'm of the Allied Armies Inlo the Kingdom.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I'm 300]! or IOOIIIISIAS'I'IOAL HISTORY.
BY J. c. I Gunman. pnonzsson or TIIIzoch' IN corn-mam. 'I'RANSLATED
FROM THE THIRD GERMAN EDITION. av F. CUNNINGHAM.

In mm mm volume. coal-1mm. aver 121mm [angel

ILEHIIN'TS 01' UHIVBRSAL HISTORY,

ON A N" AND 5mm TIC PLAN. PROV THE SARI. IEST TRIPS TO THE Tm“
WV NA.'I'0 HIGH IS ADDED A SUM‘IARV OF THE LEADING
EVEN'IS SINCE: THAT PERIOD.

BY E. WHITE. RA.
IIXII IIIIIIoAl “II-non. wn'n “Inn-Ion-

It JOHN a. nun, “I.
In one large royal 12mm volume, nee: elm cloth.

 

f '

t

1
Page-536
LEA AND BLANCHARD‘S PUBLICATIONS.

GRAHAME’S COLONIAL HISTORY.
HISTORY OF THE UNITED STATES.

FROM THE PLANTATION OF THE BRITISH COLONIE
TILL THEIR ASSUMPTION 0F INDEPENDENCE.
morn mom man-Ion,
nxLAnGnn AND AIENDID.

WITH A MEMOIR BY PRESIDENT QUINCY.

IX "0 “I!!! OL'l‘AVO VOLDIIS, m emu.
WITH A PORTRAIT.

This work having assumed the ition of n mended baton of ti‘:
country. the publishers have been in need to issue an edition in mallard-n
end at a Ion cost. that in circulation may be commensurate will: its units.
It in now coauidered as the moat impartial and irustwonhy history that In.

la are .

FA 0?: cogio- of the edition in four volumes. on extra line thick paper.

' ' ht oIIare. may still be had by gentleman detII'Olll of We

ulifu work for their libraries.

‘lthnamsﬂlylmnmlimmeaghlu ‘ mmdmmﬂnlﬁd
anuy.aadoenainlyumonhobutenrwriﬂzn Imigner. [Magnum-l
Wynne-luncryonevmhnmiuamnnoemmmhnmMala-.1
Tnmmruofun manolrmhdeLIl-nMiaudnnnimemriy-sm-Ib

_ Immlmhudmndﬁnmkummofmnfmﬂ
Inknaldh-ownnmhuoinabl-udexuadql wk. Inn-m knowing-.31
Nmmmwwnmllmduymm—NaYale-rand”.

COOPER’S NAVAL HISTORY;

HISTORY [IF THE NAVY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.
BY J. FENIMORE COOPER.

THIRD “THOR, wn'n COIIBL'I'TOIS an annmm
Complete. two volume! In one. In! Inn doth.

With I Portrait orlhe Author. Two Map. and Pom-in of Pun. Joan. hm
DALI. I’lnu. Dunn. Foam. Punt. up McDolounI.

WRAXALL’S HISTORICAL MEMOIRS.

HISTORICAL MEMOIHS OF MY OWN TIMES.
BY SIR N. W. WRAXALL.

01!! NBA! VOLUII, EXTRA CLOTH.

nhhmmmwm.mwuwunmm-Wmdmu.m
author" mud. 1m Mw’ hm‘ Inn-h -
New] Ind-m. by .-

WRAXALL’S POSTHUMOUS MEMOIRS.

POSTHIIMOUS MEMDIHS OF HIS OWII TIMES,
BY sm N. w. WRAXALL.

IN ON! voumx, EXTRA CLOTH.

hIMWmmm-dmuumdmmcmdhﬁ
mmmmmM -
Page-537
LEA AND BLANGHARD'S PUBLICATIONS.

WAIPOIE'S LETIEIIS AND MEMOIHS.
THE mes or HORACE WALPOLE, EARL or 0mm),

CONTAINING NEARLY THREE HUNDRED LETTERS.

HOW m PUBLISHED FROM THE ORIGINALS. AND ”RHINO AN m
Rum mm FROM 1135 10 mm.

In fan: lugs ocmo volumes, with a portrait of the Anthot.

SUPPRESSEO LETTERS.

THE LETTERS 0F HORACE WALPOLE, EARL OF ORFORD,
T0 SIR HORACE MANN. FROM 1760 TO 1785.
HOW FIRST PUBLISHED FROM THE ORIGINAL MEI.
' In two octavo volumes, to match the above.

 

 

 

 

 

WAIFB'LE’S saunas nus man.

moms OFTHE REIGN OI" KING GEORGE THE THIRD,

B'Y HORACE WALPOLE.
now PIBIT PUBLISHED FROM THE ORIGIIAL nu.
EDITED, WITH [0115,

BY SIR DENIS LE MARCHANT.

Mind“ ' munch-am Man a! mammal-cud
Del-Ive! mu'mmhmhwmwl cant-MW:- m% of III. «(Iv tunabl-
mm mm-mulmm-mnummsmrbym-mm

BHOWNING’S HUGUENOIS.
msmnv OF THE HUGUENOTS—A NEW EDITION,

CONTINUED To I‘ll! PIIIII'T 1113.

BY W. S. BROWNING.

In one large octlvo volume. enr- cloth.
;mummmmmmmumw.mnnp

'Ndmwmhmﬂmmhunlmh‘hvﬂmuﬂm

(ﬂaw—M
INOEESOLL’S LATE WAR.

HISTORICAL SKETCH OF THE SECOND WAR BETWEEN
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND GREAT
BRITAIN. DECLARED BY ACT OF CONGRESS,

JUNE 18, 1812, AND CONCLUDED BY
PEACE, FEBRUARY 15,1815.

3" OBARLBE J’. INGEIBOLL.

Ono volume octave of 516 as, ambrlcing the event: of 1812—1813.
Beautifully prime , and done pp in neat extra cloth.

HUSH’S COURT OF LONDON.
HMORINDI OF I RESIDENCE A'l‘ TEE COURT OF LONDON.

(DIPRISING INCIDENTS OFFICIAL AND PERSONAL. FROM 1819 N In;

“W. lmml OI TIE UIIBOI cannon. All) mu Ulll'l'l‘I-ID Ill-AM
mm 11!! um I'I'A‘HI AID um? “Run.

3? RICHARD RUSH
mmmmmmmmmvwkmmlmhm

In on lune Ind bountiful octave volnmo, um cloth.
Page-538
LEA AND BLANCHARD‘B PUBLICATIONS

NIEBUHR’S ROME.

1'3! HISTOIY or 3088,
BY B. G. NIEBUHR.
OOHPLETE 1! TWO LARGE OCTAVO VOLUIE‘

Done up in an: dolh; or In pom. MW. mu 01.00 nah.
mummdmmummxunmymmmm inﬂux“.-
In: only lauly been printed in Gummy. Ind tumbled in W. The 1'0 h‘ of Ilia “-
pt-I' meeuoanbuhr‘l human Ihol-ﬂurwto! Rom 1!”,anst ‘I-H.

'll.’ goddamn-hum lmwlhudmdmebuhr—ﬁuhlollmn-
«Int- am: Wmnrru hm mmmuauu-un-Lmn-u

”The world In! mi in Niehuhr u: impernh-bla umduL"—w Raul. J-. B“. V

"Much—sour murk- uponthil mmnnhlewu'ltmwrkwb‘iclydnnmhm
mum-n.kmehatﬁuedmucum-ullammglommumllumly;[manna u
mph-had acnular mly gamer fresh non: of know In which m an: arm wid—
eian my rum! for moo-relics] Ind primal mar-um”, Vlad: In an M I I «I
In ha and. wulmu: fecllnlz the holler Ind more gnu-mu nnumenl- u! wanna [In— at.
unhvencd and mngthcual.”—W-rgl Review.

“km-Inca l at you um l but been ﬂavour-ins with da- lw‘ |l_'-.Hdm I]. M
'nluma o! Niohuhr. Th0 clenma- Ind mmmm oflll I}: mhurydchﬂ- ! 3 IC'
Mmgwdm‘ )emu nund’ . ltd how Inllmlahly hum!” Hi i III! M den'b-D

I u.

PROFESSOR RANKE’S HISTORICAL WORKS.

Hts-roar 01' Tux rerun,
menuncn AND srxrammsumnmmsnvmmum
BY Lnoronn nAxxlz.
mmnwmuﬂmmouwnxumu.nwumnnun-ta...

In lwo pll'll. plpel'. u um nah. or one line volume. can doth.

"Ahmkaxtrmd'nmyluriu Mimi-d “Minn.“ {Whlﬂlullhnl vb‘U_d h
an- n descnbu. The best, annulment lhll an be to llLRInquJhal snip-dc h-
lccused hum of pnm‘ulily lo xu op nem- (ha Gel'lllln rowan:- eom will. an I. M '-
writtenin Ion ()lhuhc . mm- c Cadmiu- dedurx’n:.|h-l m mm a I. n.3-
ulnr Io pemein “ll Wat-m index} of Ihe hmryf—Lo‘l Tim.

was mm m arm!!! W,
[N THE SIXTEEN'I‘H CENTURY AND BEGINNING OF THE smrmm
BY PROFESSOR LEOPOLD RAHKE.
{nun-mu no: nu: urr may or run uni-u, Ir wnm 1. sun. In
Compute in one pm. pupa. [nice 75 «nu.
Tlvlle-vnbli-hed h th- nnlhnrhmm mm-Mamm":
the name of " SIWI‘IEIKIIS and ‘mmm of Southern Enmpe. in the Smut; Ind mm b-
gran“; .1”sz he used nmuly. or bound up with um work, fuxlwm pm In: til- VII
III I

HISTORY 01" THE RETOBKATION at GM,
BY PROFESSOR LEOPOLD RANKE.
PARTS FIRST, SECOND AND THIRD NOW READY.
flu-um non ml “can IDH'IDI'. n nun mm).

“F Takwuurmm.mmmmnmdmmm
od t melt ll'ﬂr‘imuf d‘ 'nnn' gnu new
paid Evin: iﬁa‘lﬁﬁb. Ill excl-ﬂog]; null Elﬂnul a! .12me Il:him J:
"pen: haunt In purpose. he mp. In. theori- lrwn «ileum: not lih D'Anhtn. M
mnflhekeﬁmmunn plmevudencnwtpwoﬂ VWIM manly. hull-Iii!"
Ma mum-n in we weak-gun, or lhc lullon-n m the parlian."~AlAm|.

33mm on was man “worm.
Ono volume 1m. pup", prion 50 cent.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

STUDIES OF THE LIFE OF WOMAN.
FROM THE FRENCH OF MADAME “mm DE SAN“
llmmlmmlmﬂmm. Hermann

THE EDUCATION OF MOTHERS; 0R. CIVILIZATION OP
MANKIND BY WOMEN.
IROI TR! PRINCE 0? L Allll IAETHI.
ham-twine, pawnm‘u'lluuuuh-zn‘
Page-539
LEA AND BLANCHARD'S PUBLICATIONS.

POPULAR SCIENCE.

PHILOSOPHY IN SPORT, MADE SCIENCE IN EARNES’I‘,

BEING AN ATTEMPT TO ILLUSTRATE THE FIRST PRIN
CIPLES OF NATURAL PHILOSOPHY, BY THE
AID OF THE POPULAR TOYS AND
SPORTS 0F YOUTH.
no: In: urn! um GREATLY mrxovzb LONDON EDITION.

In one very neu royll lama. volume. with nearly one hundxad illulunliom on wood.
Pine extra crimson cloth.

" Main. Le- & Blanch-n! h." truth I beautiful mlnncr. I hum: hookulled ‘ Philom-
phy mmﬁnme Science In haw-u Thi- b In admirable Illempt to lllnltnla the ﬁn! prin-

 

oiplu urll Philt-rphy. by Illa lid of “I! popular Ind ns 0! uth. Unful inflamm-
ﬁnn lg mama-ad In In. any. any lnLyat signiﬁed mammal regard as; to the umplm under-
‘qndanx. hock In In ulnar-Me one, lnd mun man: with nninml kw."—M Y. My

 

 

ENDLESS AMUSEMENT.

:us'r ISSUED.
ENDLESS AMUSEMENT,

A COLLECTION or
NEARLY FOUR HUNDRED ENTERTAINING EXPERIMENTS
IN VARIOUS BRANCHES OF SCIENCE,

INCLUDING

mama. ARITHIIEI‘IC, CHEMISTRY, ELECTRICITY, HYDRAULICS. HYDROSTATIB.
MONETISM. MECHANICS, OPTKB, WONDERS 0? THE am PUMP. ALL THE
POPUMR TRICKS AND CHANGE OF THE CARDS, Gan.“

To wmcn I! LDDID,
A COMPLETE SYSTEM OF PYROTECENY,
OR THE ART OF MAKING FIRE-WORKS:
n: wnons so cnsum IIYLAINED AS To an wmzm nucu
or run nos-r Lnln‘sn CAJ‘ACITY.
WITH ILLUSTRATIONS.
Pxou THE SEVENTH LONDON EDITION.

In ans nut ray-l 18m. volume. ﬁne enn ctimuon cloth.

'l'hh m h- ! Inwliod him-active Imnument m the mix-u; cations in Engluul. Illl
will dalm- h- , with plmm by than u! this cuunu-y who m‘gmd whit boy [lam m
mmmmmommmmmw nnugicolncicnm

CHEMISTRY OF IHE FOUR SEASONS,
SPRING, SUMMER, AUTUMN, AND WINTER.

AN ”SAY. PRINCIPALLY CONCERNING NATURAL WOMENA. ADII'I'I‘ING 0'
MQMATION BY CHEMICAL SCIENCE, AND ILLUSTRATINO
PASSAGE OP SCHEME

3! THOMAS GRIFFITHS.
nova-on ormmmnr ll talumooum: or rrJu-mowum noun-n1. rm.

III on: large [on] 1km. volume. wllh mlny Wood-Cull, ulrl cloth.
'Mblﬂmﬂﬂym off-ha natal-h! Ind hundwnfMI-II-nlmnlna‘tm Chanda!

 

 

M not! I u! mry nap. Ind during mry m. use no. Ind the rain. Ihn haul Ind the
(Ma. out hue than Ind W phamnonn. And than whn h"- huhcnn n-
un“! luau-(bl- lo chm Ind unloved mid and! "mun-bk. Ind oﬂan mull-u m-

nl mules-Mr 1: rod than!” d‘hc‘FourSo-m'nmlh- pundln
w;m highs: inmidmgwu: Cancun-ad In I hon" rig-M eruou variant. um
alumnae—10f MLGri all-not l’ml lemma . Mullins-d aluminum!
than“ kn loom la- uany inlu mm'u human“ llnd lhomlvu M on Mg: by
”p. mm] they nnﬂu u now luau-mu! lulu. Sunh work in hullnyu. nun. I ha lull-lam
mmmht‘ LIN] lane-m hop. "III a» M a. my be 8113me nd.”— Wm
Page-540
LEA AND BLANCHARD'S PUBLICATIONS;

POPULAR SCIENCE.
KIHBY AND SPENCE’S ENTOMDLOGY, FDR POPULAR USE.

AN INTRODUGTION TO HNTOIOLOG‘;

0R, ELFVENT‘S 0? THE .\'.\Tl'RAL. HISTGRY OF TNSECTS' COMPRISING“ Am
UI‘ .’\U.‘(LI‘L’Q I) I 'L‘ PIS, UP THEIR ”BTW
: l KAT. ‘EMS‘ “AIN’T USS. SOCIETIES, MOTIONS AD
IIYIIL'HSA I IUN. LVSTIALT. kn. kc.

“‘ith Plates, Plain or Colored.
BY WILLIAM ERBY‘ M,A.,!‘.R.S.. AND WILLIAM mm!”
no! 1}": all?“ LUNDOS EDITION. WHICR WAS CIIlIm All) mm! m
In one large octave volume. exln cloth.

‘ We have bran gr-‘mly xnwmm! m mnmng ave-r the page: ofﬂi- lrnt'n. Thanh—w h
«hp may mm: wt mun-.1 it‘ll-"1‘9.“ more mum-mm: or inﬁrm" saint-Md“-
unc Hum n m xlruud m mane mare cunnuuy m wonder.

m! mm. hi Irllrn 15 udng ml Ivy the Aulhor! m in 'nz-howldpd a. ﬂ‘.
- hewul"; peruhlrl“ rim-d furuw «harm-mod thump-II-
Ind (:qu1 v—ltlmt': 31:7de . legume.

nxsﬁn’s ANOIENT wanna.
JUST IEUED.

THE ANCIENT WORLD, 0R, PICTURESQUE SKETOHES 0F CREAM
BY D. ’1‘. ANS'I‘ED. MA, F.n.s., 110.55.. The.

runnssox or nmwn! Is 1150‘: causal. wml.
In one nary nu: mlumc. line emu cloxh. u uh aboul (ma Hammad and W m

1).: 0mm nrlhu wmk n m prrsvnr m [ha germ-a1 rude: the duehulu “W hidi-
.|Lnn I“ u m: nlr uh! rm hmlsn'e m‘vnm'r. The sumo: hu “ﬁnd I.“ mm m d 5*
ﬁnal {umlmmlw and p ulm (IZm'rvnlmnl. and ma mdumvuwl a hr .5 M to m
nqunL' Me“! n: vlu- mmdunul rmulu m’ the animating-lad d in men loch-hm Th
work I: an! uy m u 11:11.13.)qu qunm-r. wn‘u hummus mum-nu mn‘vd-nﬁb

GEOLOGY AND MINEHALOGY,

WITH INS'I'RL'CI‘IONS FOR THE QUALITATIVE ANALYSIS (E m
BY J OSHUA TRIMMER. P.G.&
“'th two Hundred Ind Twrlre “ind—0m. :- Imutumn octave vulume. Emmi h lulu—l an.

'11an u n :vpln'mnhr mtmjmmn lo Mmemlmn Ind 69.01017. Idmxnhty’ ale-Ind In H
mp sunhuz m mm: mun-es. 'I In- «mama rennin: 0! lbs mm much: u- Idl m
by unxuemun (gums. Much rm.- drawn \Hih grunt. mount].

 

 

 

 

   

   

 

 

 
 

 

 

NEW AND COMPLETE MEDICAL BOTANY.

NOW READY.

MEDICAL EOTAH

Y
on. A DESCRIPTION OF ALL THE Mom: IMPORTANT PLAN-I11) USED IN lam
AND OF ’I‘ILEIR PROPERTIES, U513 AND Mom: or mmmmu.

BY II. EGLESFELD GRIFFITH, 31.9.. m h.
In one Inga octave I'qume. Wm. about three Immmd Ind ﬁfty Tum-w»:

 

 

 

 

A POPULAR TREATISE ON VEGETABLE PHYSIOLOGY:

PUBLISHED UNDER THE AI'SPICPS UP THE sonar” FOR THE W 0'
WI’L'LAR INSTRL'V'I‘ION; “'lTll NUMEROUS wooncm

BY W. B. CARPENTER.
In nun volume. mo” am dull;

A TREATISE 0N COMPARATIVE ANATOMY AND PHYSIISY.
xv wI 3. CARPENTER.
REVISED AND MUCH IMPROVED BY THE AUTHOR. WITH mmmﬂu‘.
(NM! NM.)

 

 

 

 

OARPENTL‘B’S ANIMAL PHYSIOLOGI,
WITH ABOUT may: HUNDRED woooum
L mum-N

Digmzed by ($00816
Page-541
LEA AND BLANCIIARD'S PUBLICATIONS.

HUMAN HEALTH:

THE INFLUENCE 0! AW AND IDCALI’I'Y CHANGE 0? Am AND
01. CHIATﬁ SRASONSsPOOD. OWN-KING. BATHINGELNIINEBAL SPRINGS.
S

 

LISP. OOILPOREAL AND M TAL PUB:
113» an“. 0N HEALTHY MAN,

CONSTITUTING ELEMENTS OF HYGIENE-
BY Romy nunsmson, mu, he.»
In one octave volume.

‘,‘ Pot-lone in the punuit of health, as well as those who desire to retain

it, would do well to examine this work. The author states the work has
been prepared “to enable the general reader to underntend the nature of
the nation: of various inﬂuences on humm health, end assist him in udopt-
‘ euch menus as may tend to it» preservation: hence the author hu

avoided introducing technicalities, except where they appeared to him indis-
penuble."

REMARKS ON THE INFLUENCE OF MENTAL EXCITEMENT,
AND MENTAL CULTIVATION UPON HEALTH.

8! A. BRIGEAM, Md).
Third edition; one volume. mo.

 

 

A TREATISE ON

00“., more, THE DISEASES or T3! I'm
an m 6mm MANAGEMENT or m rm.

BY LEWIS DURLACHER,
enncnon unuoronn-r 1'0 11- ennl.

In one duodeeimo volume. cloth.
WWW

IBIDGII‘WATEI TREATIBES.
Thewhdeeompleutn'lmlnmnnmubindm
. HITAIHLNU:
mom ANIIAL AND VEGETABLE PHYSIOIDGY. in Bath. with my cum.
1m 0“ THE HISIORY, HABITS AND INSTINCT 0F ANNALS, l vuLJmh pl“

WON CI-EMIS’I'RY—CIIALMERS ON THE MORAL CONDITION OF MAN—WHEWELL
ON ASTRONOMY—BELL ON THE HAND—KIDD UN THE PHYSICAL CONDITION OF

MAN. 2 value...
IUCKLANUS 0mm, 2 Vols. with Immu- plane and amp.
Roget. Bunklend, end Kirby are sold nplrlu.

 

THE DOHES'I‘IC MANAGEMENT OF THE SICK ROOM,
mmt IN AID op MEDICAL Tam-rum. FOR THE CURE or means}:
3! A. ‘1‘. THOMSON, M.D.,&c. kc.

l'inl American. from the Sect-mi [Auden Edition. Edited try R. E. Gumm. M. D.
In one rnynl limo. volume. extrn cloth. mlh cute.

‘11an II magnum-wens: :2“: the dutiee e! the manual luau-dent. but m$m19.:uid
an! nee w o I w to wt. to no lo not m 0 00-0
, «my; in Ill-m pa

THE MILLWRIGHI AND MILLER’S GUIDE.

BY OLIVER EVANS.
Tun ELEVENTH EDITION.

WITH ADDITIONS AND CORRECTIONS. BY THE PROFESSOR OI" MMIIA'
NICE IN THE FRANKLIN INSTITUTE OF PENNSYLVANIA.

All) A Emma! 07 AN mmm man)" mu: m.
WIT- "MAY!!!“

3! 0. k 0. EVANS, ENGINEERS.
Minymhlwerknndhnhdn nnemndeduln.
Page-542
LEA AND BLANCHARD’S PUBLICATIONS.

JOHNSON AND LANDRETH ON FRUIT, KITCHEN,
AND FLOWER GARDENING.

A DICTIONARY 0F MODERN GABDBNIIG,

B! GEORGE WILLIAM JOHNSON. ESQ.
Amdzl-“Wﬂudﬁnﬁeﬂﬁudahgf‘Th-WAI—a‘h
Inn on mun urn III-1'1 '10on
mm, WITH NUMEROUS ADDITIONS, BY DAVID LANDREI'B, OP mum

' hmhmrqﬂdmmmlmamnduhduwskﬂummdmy

mm mwmmmm ImulﬁdudﬁﬂkmbA—t—
(jumbo. wwhouyunmodndmncnmm.mlmm

Map-unlumlhm mmevuizuuol'frunwbich hunch-Mulch.“
duped!» mourclima. mwwmdmummhumNIlwdnmm-om
mdwzwm.1¢m.wvhmmwkfmrndmumm lib-hanging:
viunhcumurmd uNhhanmiumumm.mu-bymulnm
duuthnmcnlm mdeninuuscnumran MunnItﬁUpmanthqh-u i
lobe.“Encyrlupnlnulcudmng.ﬂmofmmnwmumln-h
hmmdmwwmmmmm

'mblmfﬂmmwinmofﬂlmudmimdhbnmhm Intuit-b M
nodungudenn. Ilquotahmly Minimum-um uranium—d
lacuna; MmeI-Mndmemrmedumhnnﬁuodu'wlh-Um mufﬁns-
mum-Mamie”. Thamlumn-bundnnu illninlad-ihﬁwu'nﬂu lug—kn"
Ijudmnlwmdzhmnﬂmofmuwhémmmmw boh-vﬂ-n‘ulh
umm—mww

“mummvﬂmhh-ﬂkmmwmmmm: ' I‘ll-n—

 

 

' sullen-rung”:
“John-un'IDIwouuynlC-udemu‘edud hm III-m w
mu-mvmmnvmmﬁagmwwmuhmzwt has

THE COMPLETE FLORIST.

A MARITAL 0P GAIDII’II’G,

WNTAI’NTNO PRACTICAL INSTRUCTION FOR THE mmcmmrr 0? Elm
PLAé AND FOR THE CULTIVATION OF THE SHRDBDmY—THI mm
EN AND THE LAWN—WITH DNRIPTIONS 0F Tm PLANS
AND TREE MOST WOR'I‘HY OF CULTURE IN EACH
DEPARTMENT

WITH ADDITION! AID AMEIDMEI’TB,
ADAPT“ To run (ALI-ATS O! In! vamp rum
lnm-nuvol-u. mwmc-n.

THE COMPLETE KITCHEN AND FRUIT GARDENER.

A SELECT MANUAL OF KITCHEN GARDENING,
AND THE CULTURE 0F FRUITS.

comma FAWLIAR DIRECTIONS FOR THE XOS'I' APPROVED PEACHES m um
DEPARTIENI‘ DECRII’I‘IONS OF “ANY VALUABLE PRUI'IS. AND A
CALENDAR OF WORK TO BE PERFORMED EACH
MONTH IN THE YEAR

I'll “0L! unmn TO 111: emu 0! m m runs.
hmnnnmlmpw. Primathv-Cul

MIME DUBAI: “Gum m WAG, POI 104.,
WITH NUMEROUS ILLUSTRATIONS.

 

 

 

 

 

 

STILL 0.‘ HAND,
A m com or 1-3:: “am you 1847,
WITH OVER ONE HUNDRED WOOD- CUTS.
mmn- ISM-Ix: donhlo colum- ‘nanmh pW-h-dmuﬂlnndcuﬁ.
In Mm“! MW

mutant
inc-1mm DIME-mm“?
Page-543
LEA AND BLANCHARD'B PUBLICATIONS.

 

LAW BOOKS.
HILLIARD 0" REAL ESTATE.

NOW READY.

m AMERICAN LAW 0? “AI. ”021:8“.

noon» roman, ssvxssn. consumer), AND snunoen
BY FRANCIS EILLIARD,

ewe-Isms AT M'-

II two lugs octsvo volumes. besutitully printed. sud bound in best law sheep.

This book is designed es s substitute for Cruise's at, occupying the
same cum! in American law which that work has ong covered in the
linglis law. It embraces all that portion of the English Law of Resl
Estate which hss sny applicability in this country; and at the same time it
embodies the stntntory irovisions and adjudged cases of all the States upon
the same subject; there y constituting a complete elementary treatise for
American students and prectitioners. The plan of the work is such as to
render it equally valuable In all the States, embracing, us it does. the pecu-
lisr modificstious of the law shite in Msssscuussrrs and Mrssounr. Nsw
You: and Mtsstssrnt. In this edition, the statutes and decisions subse-
quent to the former one, which sre very numerous, have all been incorpo-
rnted, thus making it one-third larger than the ori insl work. and bringing

view of the law upon the subject treated quite own to the present tune.
he book is recommended in the htihest terms by distinguished jurists of
diﬂ'eront Ststes, as will be sewn by t e subjoined extracts.

“mm befonussuwtks thisdoﬁdsocyinshighlyssmﬁaorymnsr. It isbsysnd Ill
mummdmemwmmhsvemndllmou‘hwsdoubswheﬂur thisvr any
ﬁlm-mu hhlnosupplsnt Cruise‘s Dlguhwsdonot Intimates-Luis: of m m.
thilstbsmvslnsbxstottummsnhwysr. Wsmntulste the sntboruponthssuossn-
Mscoomplkhmeutof tbs srdnans nuk he undertook. in reducing the nu body ofthe Amsriesn
hwsflisslepcrtyta'pmubls-iulsndwsdo not doubt thsthss lshourswiil hsdulyspprs-
Mbyths profusion."—Iav Murphy. 1816.

Inkl Stay-ﬁz—FI think ths works very nlusbls oddities: to our present neck ofjurldinl
Mun. nouns-snout!thstnsrtotltrﬁrms‘shniwnichismmfulwnmrimnlsw-
yon mmmumunmupmnum-mm.mouurnasm {anthem
«Amhwmlbsumsubjed. lmumwmm.mmmmu
“bhnmlﬂ' “hemmthuthssmrhumsbletobdmsoxms
mhwumdsmummmheuumdlm"

M“mde(Wmu,ummmW):—'ﬂhsm
donulsbeursndlnuiI-ievslns."

Hahn-Chub sun-HtrJ-ﬁlhnl'svork when for thus or {our yanking-ad 1
MulrJnsuosswwsndChsnanuKUItIm-mnmmmhnonhsﬂsmhmth
hr."

meMmHthhmmmam-mymnmmsdnb
muhmmmm-mdmmmnsmm~

minwdhlscslhpnsnz—

“l unknown-law fur-emu yew-1th the {in odiﬂonnt‘MrJlilllsﬂ'sTu-thnﬂ
”lemnmmnusllt. lhnnodonbtthsseemdsditul'ﬂlboﬁndn-
mﬂmhlst-hulhsﬁmgnd l shell be hsppylorseommsntlitss l myhsn um. I
mdummmmmdmm.mmmhendnnﬂsowmmbﬁ
melthsllwlﬂﬂlmy."
Page-544
LEA um amcuws runucxmons.
LAW BOOKS.
ADDISON IJN CONTRACTS.

ammormuworoomm
mmmummnm.

BY C. G. ADDISON, ESQ,
“GIMME-ﬂint”.

In one voimemcuvo. bud-may loud In law m

In this treatise upon the moat constantly and early “mini-tern!
branch of luv. the author bu collecled: and eveloped in an inch
ligible and popular form, the rules and princip an of the Law of Contracts.
and hi: supported. illustrated or exempliﬁed then b reference. to my
four thousand adjudged cases. It comprisel the Rig la and Liabilitie-
Seller and Purchaser; Landlord and Tenant ; Lener and Hirer of Chuck:
Borrower and Lender; Workman and Employer; Master Servant and Ap-
grandee; Principal. Agent and Surely' Husband and_'Wifo: Partners;

oint Stock Companies; Corporations; 'l‘rusteea- Provrswnal Comma.-
rnen ;&Sl1ipowneri; Shipmulerl; Innkeepers; mien; Infants; Lum-
uu, c.

 

 

 

WHEATUN'S INTERNATIONAL LAW.

annual-rs OP INTIIHATIONAL M'-

BY HENRY WHEATON, LL.D.,
Mdmuwmummamm

THIRD EDITION. m LN'D mm
In an. lam and beautiful oelavo volume of no pun. um cloth. or Ila: law-hag
'm.M'-mhlwohmﬂﬂmmmmhw.ﬂm—y

“audio-Ilpubliclma. Tomwxmmmmmummhum,
MHWMMquhamm'—Nwﬁm

NILL UN TRUSTEES.‘
A PRACI'ICAL TREATISE ON THE LAW RELATING m TRUSTEE,

THEIR POWERS. DUTIES, PIKVILEGB AND mum
BY IAKII HILL, EIQ..
O! mmTwythul-w.

IDITID BY FBANCII J. TIODBAT.
OHM MIN” In.

In anal-m octave volumhaulaw MJ'IH bull.
~n-ﬂmwlunmmummmmwm-mmmwukhm
Mymmmmmam. mild-Mm...“

hmﬂn"
NW

ON THE PRINCIPLES OF CRIMINAL LAW.

howls-In. mlnmpparmrluﬂmu.
3mm Pm IQOP'SMALL ”transom-rm-
Page-545
LEA AND BLANCHARD’S PUBLICATIONS. -

LAW BOOKS.
srnncnu scum-r .rununzo-noar.

THE EQUITIBLE JURISDICTION [IF THE COURT OF CHANGE“,

COBEISIHD

ITS RISE, PROGRESS AND FINAL ESTABLISHMENT.

m WHICH IS PREFIXED. Wﬂ'ﬂ A VIEW TO THE ELUCIDATION 0! THE MAIN m
IEL'I‘ A CONCISE ACCOUNT OF THE LEADING DOCTRINES OF THE COMMON
LAW, AND OF THE COURSE OF PROCEDURE IN THE COURTS 0? COM-

MON LAW WITH REGARD TO CIVIL RIGHTS; WITH AN ATTEMPT
TO T'IIACE THEM TO THEIR SOURCES' AND IN WHICH
THE VARIOUS ALTERATIONS MADE BY THE

LEG E Ng'ICED P

 

 

 

 

   

  
 

DAY
BY GEORGE SPENCE, ESQ.,
one 01' Ixct‘ )INJt 3!», '~ «‘unmrl.
IN TV: I) OCTAVIJ \‘C LUMI‘q
\‘nhmI-I. vmhmmn: 2r.» 1m, n v, 'Ium- ' prvynrinz and w.”
up!“ eurn‘ m 1» .u mu n: [he preach!

  

Jr Lu wwucu .u muxmx an:- A xii-u} on [J .n m u an.

 

lunv, mu! L Lubx .n':

A NEW LAW DICTIONARY,
ODNTHVVU r m \xwmv m‘ .«r w” 1\ VI‘JI ,‘\L' W < \w yz'rusm M (WCUP
IN '11”: “mun: I-|-‘ I,Iin\l‘ \III‘HH ~ If» 'x H‘ 'r‘, or IM; ‘

  
  

 

  
  
 

   

AMI l\' 111.: mmhxzmr am rluml m‘ 1..

AM) L‘mnwv, 'Iu \HIII ? l: , HM: UI" AN
.w'l'IHN A y 1..\\\ \\'D (11' .\ 5M I‘ .' THAN 1'.

BY HENRY JAMES HOLTHOUSE, 2302.,

U1: ( u Iv , P.5'IUMII‘IL'JJL'TV

[mun mm] 'l‘HL an m A31» I..'\L.AIU£LD Luxpm: Em’nax,
WITH NUMEROUS ADDITIONS,
BY HENRY PENINGTON,
OlmPhﬂndonhinB-r.

In one lugs volume. ray-I 12mm. 0! about 500 pun, donhlc column. hanthornofy
bound in llw Iheep.

    
 

”This II I consider-bl. hum! upon the former admixing boulﬂwllh tho unl hw

”Mm-ad th- pq-nl «caution Idnﬂnhh—(‘hn ppm “count. and rho wind" slur “d
bun ' L In Yawn-r unfnln hunter. cum-In m the VIIIIIDII Mum than “(and r»,
Doing inlalh‘grh e In! will den-n dnﬁmtwna of_ludr phra— Ind mhninnlirm u in ponuliu h
the ' m the Courts of ﬂu! cunn .—_Whrla, therefore‘ m recommend ll ‘ l to tho
It nuollxwalnura .ohh rntrrnudu ofumr and .il. wrlln-vo {cm
I “Junk acqnin‘riun In Irhnry the mummi- hunsall.”—A . M
“Th'uwm‘k in Inheudad lather tar Iho nun] nndenl, than an mummy. far granny nbridgmnlu,
. ma diclimnneu in use by the birds-form! mm. In nhyee! prinmptll r- m lmpru- men-
1 sad dininctly upon lhnmind in: running 0! than couture-I lonn- of law. Ind n nah
an in", bi] m b- tanarnll mmL There in much cnnnnl infunnnunn to h- (oumi in I". In ro-
mmwlnnuu o! t 3 Ancient Suon luv. Th- Iddilionl of the Amman edrﬁnn gin
d In to the work. Ind ovum much money nun m."—P¢nuylm 1a Jun”.

 

TAYLOI’I MEDIOAI- JUIIIPRUDHIOE.

A PRACI'ICAL TREATISE ON MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE.
DY ALFRED S. TAYLOR.
mun W hum-Imam Ind cum-try n Guy-u ml. wan.
1 With numerous Notes and Additions, nnd References to American law,
DY RV E. GRIFFITH. ED.
In one volume, oeuvo. neat luv lheep.

 

 

TAYIIOI’I MAI’VAL OP TOXICOLOGI-

IN ONE NEAT OO’I'AVO VOLUME.
Almmnuwmn.

TRAILL’S
OUTLINE OF A OOUBBE OP LECTURES 0N MEDICAL JURISPBUDM
m on SMALL ocnvo vow“.
Page-546
LEA AND BLANCEARD’E memento“.
LAW B 0 0 K S.

EAST’S REPORTS.

IIPOI'I'I 0! CASH.
ADJUDGED AND DETERMINED IN THE COURT
0]" KING' 8 BENCH.
mnmnarmmmormusummmnnm

BY EDWAID HYDE EAST, IIQ,
ormh-mmmum.

IDITID, 'l'll IOTXI AI” IIIIIIICIS,
3! G. I. WHAHTOX. ESQ"
DIE-WM.

helm llmmeloetuovoiulnu. hand in Den Inwebunniled Ian-denim
titkl. hie. to ”mime. ml] twenty- -lve Man.

In this editinu of East, the sixteen volumes of the former edition hive
been compressed into eight—two volumes in ohe thrq bout—but no
he: been omitted; the entire work will be found. wit the note- of l.
Whmon uniﬁed to those uf Mr. buy. The greet reduction ofpnce (from
.72, the price of the last edition. lo .25. the subscription pnce of this.)

together with the improvement in Ippeenme. will. Ilia trusted. ptoctre in
item-ﬂy ale

A NEW WORK ON COURTS-MARTIAL

A TBEATISE 0N AHEBIGAN IILITARY LAW,

mm

PRACTICE 0!‘ COURTS-HARTIAL,
wmi 506mm Ion-mm mmvnm.

3! Joan can”...
mm “HAT- nun-1.

Inmaumvdmmndothuhwm

“mmmmmlymmﬂanmmuwhh-umum
madame-rum" —U.s.6m.

CAMPBELL’S LORD CHAIIIELLORS.

LIVES OF THE LORD CHANCELDORS AND KEEPERS OF
THE GREAT SEAL OF ENGLAND,

"OI m nuns-r mus To Til Illa. 0P [HID BIOIDI I'..

BY JOHN LORD CAMPBELL, A.M.. F.R.S.E.

l‘lnl'l' SERIES,
In Mun-Laue] eetavo volume-mm doth.
mmamwommmnnorxmmmm

rIIrAluve.
IEGOND SERIES,
lnbuvdmuulch.

WASHING not “ME I]. N m".
Page-547
R LEA AND BLANCHARD'B PUBLICATIONS.

 

YOUATT AND SKINNER’S
STANDARD WORK ON TIIE HORSE.

THE HORSE.
BY WILLIAM YOUATT.

A NEW EDITION, WITH NUIEBOUS ILLUSTRATIONS.

mmn WITH A

GENERAL 2181308! 01' TE] 3088!:

A Dm‘rl'ﬂul 0'

THE AMERICAN TRO'I'I‘ING HORSE;

HOW TRAINED AND JOCKEYID.

AN ACCOUNT OF HIS REMARKABLE PERFORMANCES;

AND

AN ESSAY on mmm m m
BY J. a. SKINNER.
mrmmmmudmmmmm.

This edition of Yountt‘s well-known Ind stundnrd work on the M
ment, Diaeasgs, and Treatment of the Horse, has alread obtained meg I
wide circulation throughout the country, that the Publis us need any no-
thing to attract to it _lbe uttenuon Ind conﬁdence of all who keep Horne: or
In mteresled in their improvemont.

”In mm an. my nut edition «(Yuma wall-known hook, on'T'be Hahn: to our
Min-not moo-ammnifwohdﬂma.lony-nythhgtneonvinoath-monuwurth; it
inboa- highlynpohu oﬁhyllmu Inn‘ uplbh dummy in mud it: vanm
mmmum‘wqwmmaUummlmswm lard 3mm
ntmm-mmywrmmm. mmhlurynlmhommndw.
mmwmuzbdim.mmmmmm-munm:w
In"iluhholm.mhmludmeahmﬂyphym'brniﬂpﬁngBeam-dyn-
mmmammmmmwuummmw—W.W

“Manhunt-1m huhnmﬂmlymhd.“ mucholuumnﬂnlyvn-writm

-' lyn- nhlo mlhor,vibo,m hw-Wmmuymnndmu-mm Ind
Ins-Ila! haunt the InimlL'l pulicnhrlywnll qualiﬁed to writs th- hhtary of tho moi-to!
«draped; “a. bi Ind Nolan-dolphin hnn rcpnNhhod tha We Hartman-tin;
lhwdmﬂmwugud hnnwlid mwmmmnmmnmnmmum
mintemﬁnglnthondurinthiamnw;thingn‘rlylmw-ohmnlmdm
hm-diumnmmmrhnhuuhghmu.mu|hdudjuqid.mmuofhh
maxi-h!- purlurmannn, Ind In my on the A. and Hula. by 1. &'Sﬂnner,h. A“: M
Wummmwwummmwmmrm. Instinct-on.
dwmylmmmhubuu hmﬂhxwithmnbjmotmhmumm
MummmmuhmmmdMMHudmm Hadmhkuupthchnpon—
mmmmmmndmmumnm mum-unmade"
nun. mmmmumm-mmmumnmmmm-
mum '
Page-548
LEA AND BLANCKABD‘S PUBLICATIONS.

YOUATT ON THE PIG.

"Inn 2133

A TREATISE ON THE BREEDS. MANAGEMENT. FEEDING.
AND MEDICAL TREATMENT OF SWINE.

rm 111130110113 POI BALI!!!) you. AID CITILKG “Col AID IA]:
DY WILLIAM IDUATT. v.3.
Anhd‘mlhu."'1‘hbw,'"&nb."m‘h,h
mannmmnmvt—Imm mmnmmm.
hamdmwmmdmwh-ﬂmm.uhmm

mmnlmmmmMJMn-bmmﬁ

hmm,mmmhuwumwmm F's-Iii
mwmurwydmmmdm.wmmmm
mquMpnpnmdm-memhm'hﬂom-udmmhd
~mmummmrnmnmrnumm-numm fulﬁl
”mummwmumummmmwm hummus—I
“Nﬂmmmmhmhnﬂ;uﬂwﬁﬂh—w
MWum-miﬂdmyenmﬂunlm

HATER AND YOUATT’S CATTLE DOCTOR.
EVERY HAN HIS OWN CATTLE DOCTOR:

CONTAINING THE CAUSES. SYMPTOMS AND TREATMENT 0! ALI-
DISEASEB INCIDENT T0 OXEN. SHEEP AND SWINE:

An A nucn or n:
ANATOIY AND PHYSIOLOGY OF HEAT CATTLE-

BY IDAHOII OLA'IIK.
Inn-m. [mum 1:» “Ion II-wlxrruv. I!
WILL!“ YOUA'I'I‘. AUTHOR OF ”THE HORSE.‘

wm muons aux-non.
mmmvmmusnopoxmmmmvmmm
BREEDOISHEEP.
I! 1.5. sxxirzn.
vn-I uvxnov- can nun xLLuunA-uon.
lummvolm.dmh.
~uhmwmnh-mmmmmhummdmb
hit—:IanMhthmudthh-M-mﬂ
qua-twain“. MruﬂYmmu—h—dhhh‘l“
mamuW;ummdm-MnuI—unﬂl
m"mh.

IBLATER’S FAHHIEH.

EVERY IAN HIS OWN FARRIEB:
mnmmumnmmnmnmmmmwmﬂm
OPTIEDBEASBO‘PHORSB.

If PIANOIS GILLES...

Aulhoro!"Evel-y MuhhownM-Dnam',‘

AND HIS SON. JOHN CLATER.
MAILING“ [WWW-”WWW
'l'l'l IOTII All Lillllnll.

.‘I J'- I. IIIHHII.
Ila-mulmm
Page-549
LEA AND BLANCHARD‘S PUBLICATIONS.

IIAWKEII AIIII PERTEII BII SHOOTING.

INSTRUCTIONS TO YOUNG SPORT!!!“

IN ALL THAT RELATES 'I‘O GUNS ’AND SHOOTING.

3' LIEUT. 001.. P. HAWKER.
na- ml "Luann mu m Inn-n wnmn Illl'ﬂol,

To WHICH IS ADDED THE HUNTING AND SHOOTING 0? NW AMERICA. WITH
DBCHJPI'IONS 0F ANIMALS AND BIRIH CAREFULLY DOLLATED
PRO]! AUTHENTIC SOURCES.

BY W. 'l‘. PORTER. ESQ.
:nrmI or Till I. 1. mm or nu run.
In on large oclnvu volume, rich our. cloth. with numemnl "Instr-ﬂan:

f' Rm 5- I huh, I hand—both. or when: Imhmk—ono that com-ins the whale mnunn n! m.
m It I. Ihe Prinnr. "In Loxmn. Ind the Honor. Ev-mhm: n hen. (nun III! mmmmr
non-m all [ml-lmk. In I dud Bulfllﬂ. The upon-mun who rudI IIuI hunk umlvnIIndszy. nu"
p- In "Win. HI! will know the new. Ind any ("I ulna u: when Every mum".
Ind room In pint-M. mum m cm. work. II Ihmld In I “VIdI mm.” Ihonld
In uni-Md on in manna. and autumn] by In: IbIIqu mum. WI Inn not ban vumnm
nun-u nu III. In. but lmharI-u may "In no! demanded Into III the min-mu of sump-“Inn Ind
anus-1m In proceed Io the oomphuun. ThiI wurk Iuwh- dnﬂdencnl. Ind any!“ n»
mi library."—l/. S Outta.

'No man in (III awn!!! Ihn we no! i} Iowan alonIIud II nur friInd nllho ‘Sw-II' ﬁx the
“I he bu undenueand m null «I In: Inlmn hII Inon "III III hu named mu I work Whld'l
mm be In thI hum of narymnn II the had IvhuownI I donhle-hIrr-llod [Inf—N. O. Pun-I.

'A mlnlna ndilly prInIId Ind houul Ind embellulmd mm numnm harmful Inn-wing
which mud. I.- conga-wanna. ‘Nu swnun Ind-«gunman. “mun. wwu
Fwd mdu Nil Ind In mu I mm ofnuriou mini IIIwnIlth—lﬁzw WM.

YOUATT ON THE DOG.

was noa,

BY WILLIAM YOUAT'I',
Author 0! “Th- HUI-31w.

WITH NUIIRODS AND BEAUTIFUL ILLUSTRATIONS.
EDITED BY 2. J'. LEWIS, HAD. In. In.
Inmbnuulully printed volmwmm
LIST OF PLATES.

Bud 0f BInodhannd—Anuon' t GlﬂlhounIII—Tho Thlhil Dw—m at New Haiku] DQ—
TbI Mnh 0r DIInunIu I "In Ind-an Due—Tho 0 TI» Grad-n (new
—Bkn1!;.m§ Ind Conun— ﬁnqupnn-oI—gm 133-.qu Alpha ”gator Wilt
Doc— le‘oundllndDu-a— I umlu ‘— II ‘ sgmnq— man-p
Dag—Thu Beale—Tho ﬁnder—Tho Foxhound—Plan ﬂan-Irma KInnIl—TIII mm
"0qu Setter—Th. Ponnhr—Tha Bun Dog—TM unlit—Tb. Tuner—Shinin- at u.-
Dog—‘I‘nolh ol the Du It luv-n Mull Ig-

" Mr. YnnIn'I walk iI Invaluable to ﬂu Ilium: ol ant-I h‘ncoly: I! I.- Inn 0! anion-mm In;
Wu mud! {or the (amt-I Ruler. To an Ivorian-n it oompeml- iIIIII by the [up mum
at n-fnl Infununhon in "(cranes In In pncuhlr pnpuiu which It Innudm—Innmnlm why):
h- unnot ﬁnd churns" in P” convemnm Ind mbk _I (Inn. Ind with In nIubII In mmqmy
momma It to hi- ommdontnn. 'I'III moan: uni-cc VIM Dr. lawn bu m-II In Ibo Annem-
Idmmlol “mum-ll lambda-I )nlIoI lathe much] value he run imp-rad to ‘n: Ind um
Wmcmwwyuw In “Inland-mn- mum mwhmhm-yhlnu II. IF"

was“ Ironrlexu LGnan!‘

OR HINTS 0N HUNTERS. HUNTING. HOIJNIB, SHOOTING. GAME, 0065,, GUNS
FISHING, NURSING. «I. ML

3! JOHN MILLS. ESQ"
Ankh-1r (' Th- OH NH (lamina-n." aw.
In an wall printed myIl duodou‘mo volume, curl clolll.

UTABIII TALK AID TABLE TALK,
0R SPIXZ‘I‘ACLIS POI YOUNG SPOR'ISMIN.
BY HARRY 3180733.
In one very neal dundl-cimo volume. ean clnlh.

"nun Iivnly Illa-Jul Inlwtr to [hair uu. wall. Whmar Nlnmld h "lemma."
Mldbemrdnlmfnrlhrqlm. H- hummmmmum
hunt-Aim mu. - III" II lunch hgm—hnmd reading Emil-2L

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Inna non AND 'rnn s‘iiiit'rsuan,

mncma THE usss BREEDING nummu msusm. m. or AND AN
Icoowr or 'mi~ mrrinax‘r mas or‘ own. wrru THEIR HAB

Al”, “I.“ to Shooters, with vnl'ionl mm Racipon, he” C..-
B! I. s. Hill-'3‘.
whim-Ian. hmmmmvnlummm
Page-550
LEA AND BLANCHARD'S PUBLICATIONS.

FRANGATELLI’S MODERN FRENCH COOKERY.

THE MODERN COOK,

A MEAL GUIDE 'TO THE CULINARY ART IN ALL 1'13 BRA. ADAM!
WELL FD]. THE LARGEST 3113“ka AS FOR THE
0? PRIVATE PAHILLE.

BY CHARLES ELME FRANCATELLI.
Mdmcnkmmm,mhblhinlb'ﬂuhlmmcﬂ humane-
In one lugs ouuo volume. extra sloth.whh numerous illImnxionI.

"ltl Inhbcthhookolhoohoueook .bI‘ “common-Li- Mm
manna; Ilium Thworkwgt’hsﬂ‘xan uni-mntmngnnlm
rgapelhr cook‘ duhu-ndde-gm. with numom ﬁlm ; Ibo thﬁnj-lh
nonfatal-nan ”simian-yanﬂnmddxmbmﬂak
Wm

 

 

“mhdicuvhnrudmrﬂulﬂu.wﬂlthukubr mentionwthh Ink-M
noble new «cooling, in whmn onrybody, m has my . {all I do"; M iii.
Prune-talk in the Hamlin Sh mar um NW 4:! n- da mod: or I! 1‘

Hun-Jorhupqrfumuoahunl nmcnhdonmardinuy hock-Mm ca.-
Cula-adnuloDuball'l Amhmoﬁu. Ilia-uncouth"; pmfnnly “Instruct-ad mun!!-
mummMydmmdmumnupmm,Mhmm.—mh

MISS ACTON’S COOKERY.

mam mm! mm m mom,

mum TO A SYSTEM OF EASY PRACTICE. FOR THE OS! 0? PRIVATE FAITH.-
IN A em OF PRACTICAL RECEIPTS ALL 0! Wm ABS GIVEN
WITH THE MOST DUNU'T’E mm

BY ELIZA ACTON.
wmz RUIEIDDS WOOD-CUT ILLUSTIJTID“.

TO WHICH IS ADDED. A TABLE OF WEIGHTS AND Hm
mnmmmmnm mum-m
8! MRS. SARAH I. HALE.
From the Second Landon Milion. In one Inn limo. volume.

- HinAcu-m 1m. 11 n ' "in! all-
_ Mu, markm“.im'i?_°$ mmmm‘. Ilia qua‘“? .p
mmmuhlam mdmmuun-mmw nun-gull-
malprlga cl.- wﬁouﬁwmwmynuemmmmﬁ
W N n
gang-Ion , "Emmi.” . Inn! m Maid-oath!

THE COMPLETE 800K.
PLAIN AND PRICTIUAL DIRECTIONS FOR COOKING AND HOUSEKEEPM

W‘IEE UPWARDS 05 am mm RECEIPTS. ‘
MM "dim-M‘heChu' IT 1 P01! .Pn ' MN I“
mun-wan: :W.xm3£.smnﬂmsﬂmﬁarrgm~m
“mag 33%” maﬁmﬂw-mmmﬁm
I my . J
Diram’on-formkingWIm “
WITH ADDITIONS All) ALTIIA'I'XOI’I.
BY 1'. M. lAIDERBOH,
otnlnuxulm

mmMnlmm. mummy-moan:

THE CWLETE CONFECTIONER, PASTRY 000K ARI] BAKER.

PLAIN AND PRACTICAL DIRECTIONS

FOR mm; cowmmomm AND mm, AND FOR BAKING.
wm EDWARDS or ran: max!) new“,
- "' ”3:1“ gamma-.1; maﬁa. 5.3:...“ ‘ “in“ m
“ m um... um" Amp“; .2:
WITH ADDITION! AND ALTERATION!-

BY PABIINSOH,
"mum.mmm.

hmiunllwlmmlpm ﬁbulyWy-MM

 

 

I

2;:

EST
Page-551
LEA AND BLANCHARD’S PUBLICATIONS.

SMALL BOOKS ON GREATSUBJECTS.

A 323.22! OF WORK!

warm 13mm 1112 ATTENTION 0! THE PUBLIC, FRO! 'I'R'l VARIETY AND
" IMPORTANCE OF THEM SUBJEUI'S, AND THE OONCISENES AND
SPRENGTH WITH WHICH THEY ARE WRITTEN.

Minimum!mmnﬂu.hmr.wmuydmuplnmnenutvolmumm
THERE ARE ALREADY PUBLISHED,

Ho. 'L—PHWPH'ICAL 'I‘HEDRIE AND PHILOSOPHICAL nrmmcn
l—ON THE CONNHION m3" PHYSIOLOGY AND INTELLEI’UAL SCIENCE.
l—ON MAN'S POWER OVER HIMSELF. TO PREVENT 0R CONTROL INSANI'I'Y.
4.—AN INTRODUCI‘ION T0 PRACTICAL ORGANIC CHEMISTRY, WITH REFRI-

INCES TO THE WORKS 0F DAVY, BRANDE, LI'EBIG, kc.
A—A BRIEF VIEW OF GREEK PHILOSOPHY UP TO THE AGE 0? PERICLIB.
£.—GREEK PHILOSOPHY FROM THE AGE OF SOCRATE TO THE COMING OP

CHRIST.
7.-CIIRISTI.AN DOUI'RINE AND PRACTICE IN THE SMOND CENTURY.
R—AN EXPOSITION 0F VULGAR AND COMMON ERRORS.ADAP'I'ED TO THE YEAR

OF GRACE AIDCCCXLV.

9.—AN INTRODUCTION TO VEGETABLE PHYSIOLOGY, WITH REFERENCE 10
THE WORKS OF DE CANDOLLE. LINDLEY. an.

Ill—ON THE PRINCIPLES OF CRIMINAL LAW.

IL—CHRISTIAN 52618 IN THE NINEI'EENTH CENTURY.

IZ—THE CEREAL PRINCle 0P GRAWAR.

" We no glad to ﬁnd um Ila-n. ha 4: Blanch“! u. rewind“. ﬁat n mum: n! their at”
price, this Idminbln art:- a! link limb. which in" Indy nut-cud In much ”Kantian in GM
Brinin."—Gmhn's W '

“mmunnfthummrhluudm m not labourer: for him: Mmmnwhoh-n
MWMMIW,M III-tired ﬂu mmuh ollhamwd.mtndencin elm-u.
Iumhtndluummmmmhhemhnﬁmmkmmwm(haughllulﬁ—
Wan ow;

“Anni-ﬂu climb volumes. who-e wonhh not null tob- minded bymirduorprico. 11m,
Il'l wriu-u in England by nebular- nf eminent ability, when. design B In all the Imam-Inn n‘! tho
public :4; "lion- amen-m. topics. In I naval Ill-I accessible mod- ol' publimtion."— . [My
Nun.

MAOKINIOSH'S DISSERTATION ON THE PROGRESS
OF EIHIOAL PHILOSOPHY,

mm A runes BY
THE REV. WILLIAM WHEWELL, M. A.
In one heat 8w. vol., extra cloth.

 

 

 

OVERLAND JOURNEY ROUND THE WORLD,
DURING THE YEARS 1841 AND 1342,

BY SIR GEORGE SIMPSON,
oovmmmm-cmsr or THE HUDSON’S BAY COMPANY'S TERRITORIES.
In one very neat crown octave volume, rich extra crimon cloth, or in two
parts, paper, price 75 cents each.

"A man mama or instruct!" wmk, or one more fun of parDmIi Idvnnhxre Ind hard: Inc.
who. we have we! we! vim”—Joln M

*u ubounil with donn- «Lucian-than». pom-u In monk-m elm-autumn-
Ind mm an innlenn m- o! vllunhlz hfurmllon.”~hMm -
Page-552
LEA AND BLANCHARD‘S PUBLICATIOIB.

UNITED STATES EXPLORING EXPEEITIOII.

THE NARRATIVE OF THE

UNITED STATES EXPLORING EXPEDITION,

DURING THE YEARS "338. '39. 'N. 41. AND '42.
BY CHARLES! WILKES, ESQ” 0.8.!-
culnunuln or ‘rnl lxnumnl. nc.
‘ PRIDE TWENTY-FIVE DOLLARS.

A New Bdilinn. In Five Medium Oclnvu Volumes, nut 12an Cloth, pulled-"1h
up will: rrfmuce In nranglh Ind enmiuund an: wnluiulug hum-ﬁx h
nu P103: or ltller-pnu. Illustrated with Mups. and Chili Tun
Huanun Snxmn ENGIAVIIEI on Woo».

PRICE ONLY TWO DOLLARS A VOLUME.

Thom «has! I! a price In low. (his :- tha cumulus work, containing llltlm lam-undu-
odiuon pruned rurCu mlhlnme mzpmmnummdmmemumdmm-d
lam lhmuzh the pram A In! the woodcut lllnﬂrulium m "mined. Ind nearly I" mun:
the Ilrre "rel plates of III: quno edlu'on hem; omxued, and nun wuod-cuu Inwuhd hr
men ml vignettes. I: I pnuled an Iluu paper. with lug: lypo, bound in my mum
and form- a benuurul work. mm nu vary numemul Ind .ppmpmle ambeu‘nhmll.

The lllelllnn nI’ pen-rm: lurmnu Iihnriaa in "pr-null] thread to thin wait. I! m“
naval Ind valuable mailer accumulated hy um Expeditiun in I she-p. mien, ml min.

SCHOOL Ind nlIIr-r PUBLIC LIBRARIES should um he without ii. I: embodying tho I“ i
m ﬁr: Scanuﬁc Expedmm comm-tuned by our pummel: Io eproru forum: III-I

“We In" no hes-union in saying lhn it I: manned to stand anon; me man alum Il-
mu 0! our national Illerllum. Iu malnhuuulu not. uuly to every dam: ulna-III
"cry darn-mum“ or history. are immune; Ind rI-eru i: nm In rnlelbgcul mu m lh- manly-
no m-uer whll may be In; Insle. or his ourupaurm. but mu Ind mama; Mn hum-uh
m. and lo prum mum—Albany Ramona 8mm.

 

 

 

ANOTHER EDITION.
Pmcs TWENTY-FIVE nonnAns.
IN FIVE MAGNIFICENT IMPERIAL OCTAVO VOLUMES:
WITH AN ATLAS 01‘ LARGE AND man nus
BEAUTIFULLY DONE UP IN EXTRA CID’I‘H.

This truly grcu lnLI aninnul Work in mud In I llyle of mpnior numb?"
Ind hrnuly. cnnuimng Suly-I‘nur Inge and ﬁnished Line Engra'iﬂn 9'”
Scenery, Pnrlruill, Murmur”. Clmnml. lit. to Pony-seven exquisite Steel VIP“
workod unong Ilw leller-pw; Ihum Two Hundred Ind Fully ﬁnely-enema! WM
an Illuuntionl, Pmmecn lurge Ind mull Map- and Chum Ind Burl] Tull!“
unnared pin. or hauer-prnu.

ALSO. A raw corms 3111.1. 01“! mun.
THE EDITION PRINTED FOR CONGRESS,
n! nvn VOLUMES, up An ATLAS.

LARGE IMPERIAL QUABTO, STRONG EXTRA CLOTH-
PEIOI SIXTY DOLLARS.

 

JUST ISSUED. D
THE ETHNOGHAPHY AND PHILOLOGV or THE UNITE

STATES EXPLOHING EXPEDITION-
mmmcomnn or cmuun wummu.sNAm

BY KORATIO HALE,
mmmnmn: ml.

h Wham»! Nut-11mm marl-FF“-
uh mhth—a‘Congru’ooﬂ-ofm“ ”ruin."

Price nu mum“. in he-mlful on" clnlh. done up will! gm! unlimi-
'.' Thi- il all only edition primal, Ind Inn few In adored for 3.10.

1'-
'numjnd r ' wm'h m” ' "Mr-Wm
volume on Our:lrl.°by‘3.°m°m.. Wight? Mb 3535:1311";- mu I'd" ' h ”-
Iuvd by It. cant;
Page-553
LEA AND BLANCHARD'S PUBLICATIONS.

_——_—__——_

DUN OUIXOIE—IILUSTRATED EDIIIDN.
NEARLY READY.

 

DON QUIXO'I‘E DE LA MANCHA,

mammnuumuumlor
MIGUEL DE CERVANTES SAAVEDRA
3! CHARLES JARVIS, ESQ-

CAIIEYULLY REVISED AND CORRECTED. WITH A MEMOIII. OF THE AUTHOR AND
NOTICE OF HIS WORKS.

WITH NUMEROUS ILLUSTRATIONS,
BY TONY JOHANNOT.

In two beautifully primed volumes. crown ntlnvn. anl cxlm crimson clvlh.

 

mm-uml-wummhmmlmlnfbonuﬂkmm'dmﬂﬂd‘hlim
hm Ilalm worthy aria numb-nan Ind popnlnrily. The mm: uhuch IMIO hu long been to]:
Inmioolnuynnd in planting this. they hue onlymexpm- :hcir hop- lhal it my meal the
Immi- dam-ml: Ind Inquiries. Thu tnnﬂuim in LIAM by 1min, which in namlodgod lum-
Mhbothfomsnlﬂchylonuuhm Ilhuhmhwlmnwheendighllyﬂumltoldm
Rhona-Io mmnumnummummnmwhdm of'l‘onylohlnnm.
na- Inna”:- ndmudw bow-mumummumu nllhawitlndhumum
Can-nun. Ind - chate- Ielodian n! than hive been cur-Val in [he but lunar. A DOW!-
Inmnirn! nululhormd bi: works has bun aided by the editor. Tho volumes In primal h
Inn aim man an. [Japan-ml h-uhnmoly bound, Ind the whole ‘5 Wichita I
WmManﬁmn‘lhﬂWmm-m f
Page-554
LEA AND BLANCHARD'B PUBLICATIONS.

PICCIOLA.

ILLUSTRATED EDITIOI’.

PICCIULAJHE PRISONER 0F FENESTREllA;
0R, CAPTIVITY CAPTIVE.
BY X: BnlAIHTINE.
A le xnnxox, wrrn unusrnrnoxs.

In one Glenn! duodecimo volum, lnrga type, Ind ﬁne paper: pric- In linsymll
50 cents. or in beautiful “In trim-an doth.
'anﬂummﬁfullndbwum dﬁﬂlon aver Ilium hml
“disf—Alla.

 

 

“Tb- lame publisher: hnu Innwn their yum. sound @0de bud-
imhlhnirfonnnodmon Minn-tumulhnmdnrybuu' ”mm-mun.“ he.
never VIII I book which balm dunno: lhl annulment. 1: is we of My . null-

Plnllnd VI um. nndwebehne unclaimed town». that popnlnrworkvf S. III-W
hn'ty. [tin nerxuilulwumndnncdiduldlhlyr-emogadnglmmwui
Ian-minimal hul md Vnmni-hdenc'nnL SLPnrm'lw demednmukm'bu
bold m on feudal prujudiou; Sinuno‘t urin- deepen Ind a-nh nu gage! Inﬁll-Ry“
hulnbanenlmodern magnum-"mold. Alumna wmudm'mnhh
mybnumam"—Lady‘a£aoﬁ.

“Thigh-lime mofibkM—cbemuMmlLbetnﬁfnl “MM-ﬁnned. 1&1?“
Iniplotoflhuuuﬁ§cbnrnivnmymninnomdaumwn ' on] mun-dun“
whomlyounxrhofﬁcuon orlhelnnlalieannl fwd,de “urinal!"
dbeanufnlmmmanok”—Na 1mm. '-

“TMpnunlndiﬁon'lmapinbeanﬂMnimwithiumnndmaumw

“marl. Wamndmmﬂuuuémwhnwmmmmwmmhn‘m

' unnnmnga,wh¢nilwuﬁmtnmluod.mdfwnuenmnllllh-nsmwlmnol-

Inpmc ilnow—cndlntnu-awhumill-Inmbutdanotpus—I .wnbuumtr
Forums! 2‘! supplying themselvu {mm m meant wry ”Hen: uhm.“% MM

’Amwadidonollhjluquirita humonndyhoubudbyﬂmlnam
abolished uni ﬁlm in m mail-3f“! manna. We “Mam-ad um um vat “In"
auburn a! print. Ind nan"! odin'on "in.“ be ﬁlm“ mutua- 1|ng with:

Ill 0!.” I m I
'"_ milk-M m mun-w: m 58““
“mmmwurlmhnmdemyndIyF—WW-

LOVER’S RORY O’MORE.

3037 O’HOBI—A RATIONAL BOILNOII
BY SAMUEL LOVER.
Amuﬂah-pdidmwimmmumbymuzhu. Priuonhﬁe-k
Alan, I benllliml edition in royal 19mm, price so eenu. In much the fall!!!”
“A wymmmmmb inf—Wauljlamy Guav—
'Ir. Love: In: hon produced his but work of Momwhich um mmn m
mnem- with which an Menu world loam It. When. The unusual-h

unman- «Barn- uuaroncu “Sandman“. W. wdoomohnnwnhm
pInn-unhimwknxw'—Ialdau&a

LOVER’S IRISH STORIES.

Luann!” All) 31-03an or Inst-AIM
BY SAMUEL LOVER.

In in my nut XZmo. volume. ﬁne 1’, extr- clou: nrlm PAP”.
Wm: mustnu‘nu ma Aux-hot.

 

mm
gym-ad
mi

 

 

LOVER’S SONGS AND BALLADS, ,,
INCLUDING THOSE OF THE "IRISH EVENING-gm

In one n2“ 12ml). rolunn, prion Emu.

MABSTOR.

OR THE MEMOIRS OF A STATESMAN AND SOLDIER“
BY THE REV. GEORGE CROLY.
Anthorol'snhthnl." "Algal oflho World!»

In one ocuvo volume. pipe. price ﬁfty cents.

IAmammmmmmMN-mm

 

\
Page-555
LEA AND BLANCHARD'S PUBLICATIONS.

——~——*——~

BIOGRAPHY AND POETICAL REMAINS
OF THE LATE
IAIGAIHT MILLHI DAVIDSOK-
BY WASHINGTON IRVING.
A NEW EDITION, REVISED.

POETICAL REMAINS

or 1H: LATE
LUOEHTIA MARIA DAVIDSON-

comm) AND ARRANGED BY HER MOTHER, WITH A BIOGRAPHY BY
MISS SEDGWICK.

A IIIW Inx'rlol. li'llln.

 

 

SELECTIONS mo): THE
WRITINGS 0F MRS. MARGARET M. DAVIDSON,

1112 mm":- or LIIEIE'I'IA AND IAIﬂAIﬂ.
‘VITH A PREFACE BY MISS SEDGWICK.

Thu-borethraewnrbln done nylonﬂchlnlnwduuluclmﬁm.hncymput,plhm
much;orinulndulh.

THE lANGUAGE 0F FLOWERS,

WITH ILLUSTRATIVB POETRY; T0 IVHICII ARE NOW ADDED THE
CALENDAR OF FLOWERS, AND THE DIAL OI“ FLOWERS.

IEVII'I'I AIIRICA'q "OK "I NINTH Wm. IDKTIDH-

Revised by the Editor 9f the “Forget-Ma-Nol."
In one my nut 18:110. Volum, um chm club. on. Win: nix mm m

CAMPBELL'S POETICAL WORKS,

THE ONLY comm AMERICAN EDITION.
WITH A MEMOIR OF THE AUTHOR BY IRVING, AND AN

ESSAY ON HIS GENIUS BY JEFFREY.
II n- beuuuful crow octave volume, can cloth, or «31! gill : with 1 WIN! 1! Plus;

KEBlE’S CHRISIIAN YEAR,

EDITED BY THE RIGHT REV. BISHOP DOANE.
Wmmmmwmmhwim Illuminnl-Il'l‘ma.

HELIGIO MEDICI, AND ITS SEOUEL, CHRISIIAN MOHALS,

BY SIR THOMAS BROWNE, KT..
WITH BESSMBLAN’I‘ PASSAGBS FROM COWPER'S TASK.
In one nan limo. volume.

HEMANS'S COMPLETE POETICAI. WORKS,

xx 3::sz woman, no“). 12150., run on churn.

IIOGEIIS’S POEMS,

ILLUSTRATED,
I! on maul. MAYO VOLUHI, mu 01.011! 03 m CALI.
Page-556
“A AND BLANCHAIUS PUBLICATIONS.

DICKENS’S WORKS.

VAIIOVB EDITIOI’B AID 23108..

CHEAPEST EDITION IN NINE PARTS PAPER,
A8 rouows:

THE PICKWICK PAPERS, 1 large voL 870., paper, prion 50am.
OLIVER. TWIST, 1 vol. 870., paper, price 25 cents.

BKETCHES 0F EVERYDAY-LIFE. lvol. 8vo.. pm, pr'umcau
NICHOLAS NICKLEBY. 1 large vol. 810., paper, price 50m

THE OLD CURIOSITY SHOP. I Vol. 8vo., per, with my Cu
price 50 cents.

BARNABY RUDGE. 1 vol. 810.. with many Cuts, price 50am).
MARTIN CHUZZLEWIT, 1 vol. 8vo., with plates. price 50 oeuu.

CHRISTMAS STORIES—Tn: CAIOL. Tn; Cumu. Tn Emma!
'ms Hun-m, and Tn: Bun-u: or Lin—together with Pic-rum nu
Inn, 1 vol. 870.. price 37} cents.

BOMBEY AND SON, Fun 1., to be completed in Two Part-.1160”
cents each.

Pwninztnnuandnm‘hmﬂiondﬂlanmkrm Aunt-dim“

 

 

 

“.30,
A UNIFORM AND CHEAP EDITION OF ‘

DICKENS’S NOVELS AND TALES, ‘

IN THREE LARGE VOLUMES.

 

“I moms m TAX-38 01’ mm Dim

(B 0 Z.)
In 111m lugs and buntiml Ocuvo Volumes, done up in Enn Cloth.

con-mun uorrr rwmy-rwo uvxnun um um nu: Ion“
counmn nus.
max m3 111: WHOLE. ONLY 'mnxx DOLLARS AND srvmf. .m cm!

The (new Inquiries far I uniform. comm Ind got-l edition of 501‘! workmhl'. hind"
"Matter: In prawn one‘ which they now 0hr u n pnoe no law thzt I! should mun-ad nu!
extended sin. n .- pnnled a. ﬁne vim. paw. with good I’ve. m1 inm- lhm hr:- rd;
mum: mm men hundred mu ﬁﬂy mum do... in various :1. 1- Hem-doth
l hem-um no perm-Ia minnow—Some or me work: muslnlll‘led wxl Wm! mun-«um

Tm- dean comprehend: the tint men m no will be mpm-d mm m I" .-
Fourth annmn. In the mmplelion ol - Domhez and Son." mu in FWW u
Inn": um vmrk. m. - ohm-n. sun-r ma Mum on my. W ""
- bung Ibln lo period than nu.

 

A180. LN EDITXON PEOFUSEL‘I ILLUSTRATED WITH
ONE HUNDRED AND THIRTY-FOUR. PLATES. AND ONE
HUNDRED AND FORTY WOOD-CUTS.
hhpﬁdmmMuﬂn-wmm-

nil-m above In “In only Couple“ and Uniform Edition! of Dick-3‘! WW" '"
heron u: public

 

NOW PUBLISHING,

DORSET All) 808‘.

III mos.

In twenty nnmben, price 8 cent- onch, with two illultrntionl by Bob!“
K. Browne in each number. n.
mnmﬁm-hup—mmm unwound-HM

I
Page-557
LEA AND BLANCHABD‘S PUBLICATIONS.

SELECT WORKS 0F FIELDING AND. SMOLLETT,

Pruner! In I nut and uniform uyle. to much the cheap edIIIon or Dickens'- Worn.

SELEOT WORKS OF IOBIAS SMOLLEIT,
WITH A MEMOIR OF ms LIFE AND WRITINGS,
BY sm WALTER sco'r'r.

THIS EDITION CONTAINS:
THE ADVENTUR- OP RODERICK RANDOM. Prion “verily-numb.
THE ADVENTURES OF PEREGRINI PICKLE. Prion ﬁlly mu.
THE EXPEDITION OF HUMPHRL'Y CLINKER. Price twenty-ﬁn calm.
THE ADVENTURE 0F FERDINAND COUNT PATRON. Prim Manly-ﬁn dank.

THE ADVENTURES OF SIR LAUNCPILOT GREAV’ES. THE HISTORY AND £1me
0? AN ATOM, AND SELECT POEMS. Prion brainy-ﬁve canLL

Or, the whole done up in one very Inge ocllvo volume. um doll).

SELECT WORKS OF HENHY FIELDING,
WITH A MEMOIR. or ms LIFE AND WRITINGS.

BY SIB WALTER SCOTT,

AND AN ESSAY ON HIS LIFE AND GENIUS,
m: ARTHUR MURPHY. ESQ.

THIS IDITIOR CONTAIN! I V
10! mm, OR THE HISTORY OF A I’OUNDLING. Pnou any um

TH! ADV/mm 0P memmmmmnmum ADAISI
Prb-Mym

AMELIA. Prion twang-an mu.
THE LIFE 0? JONATHAN WILD THE GREAT. Pric- Iway-ﬁn oenb.

0r. tho whole In one lane mum vulume. exumolh.

COOPEH’S NOVELS ANO TALES.

A UNIFORM EDITION,

IN TWENTY-THREE LARGE DUODECIMO VOLUMES,
WELL BOUND IN SHEEP GILT.
Forming a beautiful series, each volume comprehending a novel.

 

 

 

 

 

ALSO, A. CHEAP EDITION,
IN FORTY-SIX VOLUMES, DUODECIMO,|

DONE UP III NEAT IAPEE COVERS.

Price only tummy-Ive can I vnlnme. each work In two volumes. Any novel
sold lap-rue.

COIPRISINO:

HIE SPY—THE WATERWI'I‘CH—HEInENMUER—FRECAUTTON—HOM‘EWARD BOUND
~HOME AS POUND—THE LAST 01" THE MOHICANS—THE HEAIISHAN—THE TWO
ADMIRAIS—THE I'lONI-JEIIS—TIIE PILOT-LIONEL. LINCOLN—THE PATHFINDER—
THE WISH-TON-WISH—MERCEUES OP CASTILE—THE‘. MUNIKINS—THE BRAVO—
THE DEERSLAI‘ER—THE PRAIRIE—THE RED ROVER—WIN“ AND WlNG—WYAN—
Wm 03 THE HUTIED KNOLL: AND THE TRAVELING BACHEMR.

 

 

ALSO, NED MYERS; OR, A LIFE BEFORE THE MAST,
In on: limo. volume. Price twenty-nu cent!v

 

LL80, OOOI’BI’B 83A TALES,

In six neu vnlumu. royal 19mm. axlru clom

 

OOOPII’S LEATHER I'I'OOIING 'I'AIaﬂl,
In In nul volumeI. Mil lino" um chm.
Page-558
LBA AND BLANCHARD'S PUBLICATIONS.

ROY'S TREASURY 0F SPO RTS.
THE BOY'R TREASURY OF SPORTS, PlBTlMES lNU RRERERTIONR.

WITH FOUR HUNDRED ILLUSTRATIONS.

BY SAMUEL WILLIAMS.
u now In“.
In one very neIt volume. hound In extrI crlrnIon cloth: handlonelyjrinntl nl
illuItrntotl wlth anxrlvinn ill the ﬂrlt Ityle 0f Irt. Ind ennulntng
Ibout nix hundred Intl ﬁfty Iniclen. A prexut {or Ill IcuonI.

 

 

J1

 

 

PREFACE.
ThII lllnmled MIMI! of'SportI.PIIﬁm-. Ind Roan-Mom.” hu Irlth mil
mmmﬂnlmmmuﬂndeonuI-injomuduwmn‘ tom-us

Ev ‘ of oommondnblu Recitation mTl he found In the followinl m It. ill
ch: ﬂmum. Nnu-ry: mITopIndllIrN- orth- Wmmm in:
H' "mm' “in” 'MMLI‘TM- th e to had an amid to um Ian-nu-

an. unnmunum rn une- Inna on I I'
‘ t Joy ully, Ind make _thI pnrlonr ro-eohu mth m-nFL ' I,

A an. coma tha Bun-um; Spun: of the ﬁeld, th Gran. Ind tha Plum; hug-II h
tha noble Ind truly Hugh-h nrne o! Cn‘rket.

GmtfosIku'a Int noxt Itlmttal; than, tho dollxhttul null-Hon of Swimming; Ind th- “Hi

I rt a lung.

p:mhnry. anon thI pride of England. iI then damned ; Ind vary properly bllowd [punch
In the meefhl mphnhmenl a! Fencing. and tho manly Ind enllwning exercin a I“.

An‘llru. the wltmo o( cmldltmd. boyhood Inuhood. Ind old m, ll next duu'ibvd : Id h
mention to tho Instructtnnl but! but] duwn. uh: M with “tack and n ann‘ my loan boa“ ll
'1 "- Angler.

eeptng Anlnnlu i- I fIvnut-ite pnnnit of boyhood. Awardmt'ly. WI hIVI ascribed hair to -
tho Rnhhtt. lhn utrrel. the Dommuse. the (mints): Pin. the Pngnon. run! the Sulkwu-n-L A la-
chIt-ner n It!- to tho run'n ofSong Buds; tlu neural undnt of whldLIndthetr m
man. In next described. And are we may hint. thIt ktmlnm: to Animal: lnrnrtnbly drum In
excellent dxpmnson; fur. to In I little crcIturI one hour. Ind to [rent it hInhly the nu: nub
I crpn‘clnrsnu’ not I crud temp". llumImtin n jewel. winch vvury boy than“ he mud to war
III III IN .

We now ngrouch tho more Ioduu Immmnts—u Dnught- and Chair two of tho nohh
Imam of x c tnznnuily nf the human mlnd. Dnminoul mt anltella follow. wan I m.
lndgn «r these four gun”, who would pun I dull huur In tho Invariant any u! what; or '-
Iroultl Itt nlly by tho llru l ‘

“mm-mutt: m Anti stir. hIrmla-I Inenlennin, or Ilelght-ol-lund. Ind Track: with Fulﬁl.
will dellll“ runny n {at y circle. when the bunny. nr th: thy in (war. und lhg book in lnid not):

Althouxh tlm prawn volume :- I boult of Inn-smalls. Samoa ha- not harm oxelodul than n:-
page; Amt why nlmuld ll be! when Set-mm II n ontemmxng In I fury “In. '11. chm :-
mu 0! in Intle numry-tntks Im not more Imusng than um chums In Chemistry. up! Ix Du.»
many. Mun-ethnlw. By “nllGlmntlln‘ than. you may Ilmmt hem-nu I littla Magma.

Tuy Unlllmn! and Piper Ftrnwnrkl. (or Ptrcwm'u mm Fm.) come nut Than rah- l.-
nrucuom (or Modelling tn Gard-Board; no that run may hutld {or yourulf I palace or I arr-up.
and, In short. nmke {or yourself A llllleLuI nr world.

Punk-n Ind ’m‘nm‘ Enigma Ind n Ind Taking nth tho Fimﬂ. nutm- I7 .
of exam» for "Gum." Iml Gu ll'l ml In u thg the “Key" n: nor on you
In; knot-t yuur friend; In umpom. It mIko your-e II mth-rlotn as tho Sp

nhIpter of Iluoellnmen—nwrul nnd nrnuung lamb—Wind] no the voluma.

The 'Treun " enntguu upwnnln at (our hundred EIWW: Io thIt it u um 9:11th
of “(mt II wort known-u." huttt II I book of pm II (1' pnntI‘ - I
u a p umn,

It only but In wall to mention that tho “’l‘ranmry" huldl runny new nine- thu hIn not:
not»? bmpnnled 1'}ka u! thin kind. Th5 uld gum: III" bun dun-thud m Th- I

I Inst- r. I new (I

An! now we tIke tun, wining m runny hoary Ind dI Ind Inch of emu In: th-
llul; udwnhopeth-tyoumybcuhmutnum induct-nun“.

  

:-

i
Page-559

Page-560

Page-561
l IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
I 32044 037 714 946 .

I

W q

(”“1
Page-562
