34 TA NGIER

morrow was the great Sokko or market day, and they were weary
from the long journey.

Groups of women were sitting upon the ground with ﬂat, round
cakes of bread piled up in front of them, their mantles over their
heads. The men monopolize the vegetable and ﬂower trade, and
hold up their nosegays of violets and roses, quite unconscious of
the incongruity of it all. The children are thick as ﬂies, all pretty,
plump and bubbling over with fun. If it were not for the loath-
some beggars that creep and crawl like slimy things, or lie at full
length on the ground, moaning and whining, it would be quite a
gay scene.

The Bab a1 Sok* terminates the long street that begins at the
Bab al Marsa, and is crossed by others that wind in and out in
the most perplexing and Bostonian fashion and, what is worse, are.
nameless. —

Coming over on the boat from Gibraltar, I had a talk with an
English missionary doctor who lives at Tetuan, one of the interior
cities. He said cruelty toward the women is common, many wives
being beaten to death. A Moor can be divorced by simply paying
the equivalent of two dollars to the Sheik, or Governor, and can '
marry as soon afterward as he pleases. The people are very super-
stitious and are ﬁrm believers in the Evil Eye.

The Berbers were chief among the aborigines of Morocco, and
the Kabyles are the best branch of that race.

Grant Allen, in one of his works, has given a vivid picture of
the daily life of this industrious tribe of the mountains, who live
in horses of stone or clay, own their lands and cultivate ﬁgs, olives
and tobacco, besides making a fair quality of wine. They are a
great contrast to the shiftless, wandering Arabs of the plains, who are
content to dwell in tents and snatch a living anywhere and anyhow.

Art of a crude sort exists among the Kabyles. They have
even produced etchings and engravings and attained no mean skill
in wood-carving.

The heads of the males are shorn with the exception of one
tuft of hair, which is braided and hangs down on one side like a

 

*Gate of the market.

