278 S I I 7.8.9 C/ 7 '/ [1'5 .4 X!) .‘l/C'.‘V/(.'l/

Early the next morning, we greeted her, rosy and fresh from
her slumbers, as we drove from Interlaken- through the smiling
valley of Lauterbrunnen to the town of the same name. Near the
little village of \Vilderswyl. some woodan were chopping down
trees for winter fuel. All along the way, on the right, rise steep
mountains; clear streams dash down from their summits in narrow
cascades over rocks made smooth and shining by their passage,
By means of channels under the roadway they join the mad river
Ltitschine, which rushes along on the left. Once, a goatherd ran
panting up the road after us, to inquire if we had seen two stray
goats, and we were able to inform him that they were clambering
up a side hill just ahead, their bells making music in the stillness.

I do not marvel at the superstitions of the simple, mountain
folk. Nature speaks to them in voices that we cannot hear. I do
not wonder at their belief in mountain giants and dwarfs, in
quaint tales of imaginary creatures, for it seemed as if a demon
surely possessed the wild stream that leaped against the boulders,
gathering new strength to pursue its onward course.

Further on, coming in sight of a quaint habitation almost
hidden by fruit trees, we were so charmed, that we decided to
visit it. Leaving our carriage and crossing a rickety bridge over
the river, we climbed the path to the door. A pleasant-faced,
elderly woman, who spoke very good French, met us half way and
ushered us into the living room. The bare rafters were thick with
soot which hung in festoons; upon a stone platform was a small
stove where a ﬁsh was cooking in a pot of boiling fat. \Ve in-
voluntarily exclaimed at the appetizing odor; whereupon, our hostess
immediately insisted upon our eating the ﬁsh, which, with an ac-
companiment of warm goat's milk and fresh bread, proved to be
delicious. The pretty, blue-eyed daughter of the house bustled
about, assisting her mother to do the honors, and, when we de-
parted, presented us with a bouquet. The father, a stalwart son
of the mountains, seemed very much delighted, when. on reading
our cards, he found we were from America. and asked all sorts of
questions. In this simple home, where the seats were wooden
benches. and the crockery, modest brown and blue ware, the calico
gowns of the women were whole and clean, and their hair was

