A’OJ/lf 193

ers and in the center is a sculptured well-curb, which the sacristan
afﬁrms was the one on which the Saviour sat while talking with the
woman of Samaria. Slender columns of marble beautifully veined
form the colonnade surrounding the court; some of them show what
used to be called Cosmato* work, the ﬁutings of the columns being
ﬁlled with mosaic patterns of richly stained glass and minute pieces
of precious marbles and minerals.

The Lateran Palace was the usual residence for those occupy-
ing the papal throne. before the seat of the pontiﬁcal government
was removed to Avignon. France. in 309. After Gregory XI.
returned to Italv in 1377. the Pope made the Vatican his head-
quarters. ' Pope Gregory XVI. in 184; set taside the Lateran Palace '
for a museum of antiquities

The most magniﬁcent palace that we have yet seen is that of
the ancient family of the Colonna. a name derived from the same
Latin word as our column. It has been degraded by some un-
worthy descendants, one of whom not long ago married a wealthy
American girl, and treated her so badly that she was obliged to
sue for a divorce. W’hen you remember that POpe Martin V. began
this palace in 1417. on the site of an ancient temple of Apollo, and
that in 1620 it was rebuilt and transformed into a stronghold. you
will not wonder at the pride which the Romans feel in the noble
structure. The design of the column is everywhere introduced.
In the center is a great circular court; large windows admit plenty
of light to the spacious halls with their costly inlaid ﬂoors. A
passage supported by arches spanning the street connects the second
ﬂoor with a garden, where roses and azalias run riot.

Imbedded in one of the steps leading from the lower part of
the Grand Gallery to the upper there is a cannon ball. a relic of
the bombardment of 1849. Upon the ceiling a fresco of the “ Battle
of Lepanto” shows the hero Marcantonio Colonna, who distin-
guished himself in the conﬂict. The walls are faced with mirrors
decorated with genii and exquisite garlands of ﬂowers, while, upon
the elaborately gilded woodwork, ﬁgures are carved in high relief.

There is a portrait of Vittoria Colonna in the palace. She

 

 

* A name derived from two members of a family privileged to make it.

