x 36 A TEENS

One enters the simple, but digniﬁed Royal Palace through an
Ionic colonnade. Facing the door is a grand staircase, used only
by the family. To the left, beyond an arch, is a ﬂight of marble
steps covered by a scarlet velvet carpet with a black Grecian key
border. iThis leads to the state apartments on the second ﬂoor.
The ﬁrst of the suite, the Room of Battles, is hung with ﬂags
used or captured in war. Among them are the ancient Persian
trophies. From the gilded throne-room we saw an ante chamber
encircled by a frieze of medallion portraits of noted Greek ministers.
The ballroom was ﬁlled with small tables, on which were the re-
mains of a state luncheon given the day before by the King to the
victors and committees of the games.

The Princess Marie, daughter of the King, is betrothed to the
Russian Grand Duke George, in deference to the wishes of her
mother (according to gossip in Athens), who is a Russian and in
every way endeavors to promote friendship between the two nations.
We are told that this engagement is a great disappointment to the
people, who would prefer the King of Servia, a suitor whom the
girl had favored and who rules a nation which is on the best of
terms with Greece. As we were returning from the palace, a number
of the royal carriages, with footmen and coachmen in Greek dress,
passed us. It looked very strange to see a man in ballet skirts
holding the reins over a pair of spirited horses, while the occupants
of the carriage wore Parisian costumes.

The wife of the American consul has invited us to tea on
Thursday next, but as we must leave Athens before that time, we
are forced to forego the pleasure.

It has been cold for the last two days, and we have been
uncomfortable. There is no way of heating our room except by
a brazier, a cylindrical iron affair like a bowl on legs, ﬁlled with
live coals, upon which sizzles a lemon cut in two. \Ve wonder
whether it is there for ornament, or to absorb the gases which so
ﬁll the room, that we are obliged to leave the door open, thus
admitting more cold air. The “chambermaids” are all men, and it
has been rather trying to have strapping young fellows tidy our
bedroom. But they are more obliging than half the maids, and
actually hang our dresses up by the loops!

