20.2 I f' N1 (72‘

covering the right side. is soaked off with warm soapsuds. and the
mosaic appears. The backgrounds are generally gold and are
made in the following manner. The foundation is a sheet of col-
ored glass, made opaque by oxide of tin; upon this the gold leaf
is laid on, ﬂat. and covered by a thin layer of white. transparent
glass which protects the gold. This is the secret of the preser-
vation of gold mosaic. When hard. this sheet of gilt is cut into
dice, and set in the usual way.

Near Salviati's is the old Rezzonico Palace. now occupied by
Barrett Browning. son of Robert and Elizabeth Barrett Browning.
Here. the poet died in 1889. and a memorial tablet is afﬁxed to
the wall. The family were absent and the custodian permitted us
to go through all the rooms. There were pictures and busts of
the gifted father and mother in nearly every apartment. We had
the privilege of seeing the alcove ﬁtted up like a miniature chapel.
in memory of Mrs. Browning. the “Little Portuguese." as her
husband loved to call her. The son dabbles both in painting and
sculpture; one of his pictures is a good portrait of his father.

This morning. we spent an hour studying Titian's “Assump-
tion,” and “Presentation in the Temple." The latter portrays the
Virgin, when a Child. going up the steps of the temple to meet.
the priests. Both pictures are in the Academy of Fine Arts and
alone are well worth the trip to Venice.

From the Academy, a small steamer took us to the Lido. one
of the low sand-hills which separate the lagoons from the open
sea. It has been changed into a garden spot. with a ﬁne Casino
and bathing houses. Fishing smacks with red and yellow sails
were coming from Chioggia. and we passed quaint shrines placed
on poles sticking up out of the. water. before which the gondolier
says his Ave Maria.

The island of San Lazzaro. a piece of waste land. was bought
in 1182 from Seigneur Leone Paolini by the Republic of Venice.
for a lepers' hospital. and named after St. Lazarus. the patron
saint of lepers. When the disease had disappeared from this part
of the country, the island was abandoned.

In April, 1715. an Armenian monk named Mekhithar, accom-
panied by eleven of his brethren. came to Venice to seek protection

