2 76 S I I '1 SS Cl 7'! If S .4 A '1) 111 (XVI CI]

The lakes of Sarnen and Lungern are a deep green reﬂecting
the ﬁr-covered mountains. The tender green of the young shoots
is sharply deﬁned against the older and darker foliage.

\Ve entered the Bernese Oberland by the Brtinig Pass, whence
the road to Meiringen and Brienz follows the river Aare in the
valley below. Its banks are so walled with stone, and its course
so even as to deceive us into thinking that it was a canal.

At the Lake of Brienz another steamer was waiting to take
us to Interlaken. Gliding along on the limpid waters toward the
setting sun, we neared a narrow channel, where the spurs of the
rugged mountains almost met. Far below their towering peaks
some heavy storm clouds had gathered, and hung over the opening,
where they seemed about to dash their weight of moisture upon us.
All at once, a rift appeared in the clouds and the sun burst
through, lighting up the verdure on our left; while on the right,
all was still and dark.

Interlaken lies in the valley between the Lakes of Thun and
Brienz. “The oldest inhabitant” loves to tell a legend which
runs in this fashionz—God ordered the Garden of Eden removed
from the earth at the time of Adam’s fall. As his angels were.
passing over the Alps with their burden, they were so enchanted
with the sight of the beautiful, white Jungfrau and the two azure
lakes beneath, that they could not resist leaving a part of the
garden (Lauterbrunnen), at the foot of the mountain, and another,
between the two lakes. The people named this grassy plain,
“Interlaken,” which means “between the lakes.” Here the air is
as soft and balmy as that of a semi-tropical clime; the ramparts of
the mountain ranges protect the valley on the north and south,
while through the lake openings to the east and west, a fresh cur-
rent of air continually circulates. The lower slopes of the moun-
tains are covered with beech trees, and in the town is a ﬁne avenue
of giant walnuts, the HOheweg, bordered on one side by the prin-
cipal hotels, which face the Jungfrau, standing like a bride clad
all in white, the central ﬁgure in the landscape. Upon either side,
as you view her from Interlaken, are two black peaks, like stern
guardians, as forbidding as she is lovely.

One evening we walked down the avenue of linden and chest-

