 

I'EJ'ICE 255

ballot, he was admitted; otherwise, he had to wait another year.

In the Hall of the Great Council is a huge canvas, stretching
across the end wall which is seventy-eight feet wide. The subject
is Paradise, where the enthroned Christ is surrounded by a vast
multitude of ﬁgures. This, the largest oil painting in the world,
was executed by Jacopo Robusti, born in 1512, and dubbed “Tin-
toretto," because his father was a dyer. His motto was, “The
drawing of Michael Angelo with the coloring of Titian. ”

The windows of the Hall of the Great Council open upon a
balcony overlooking the lagoons and islands; the Lido and San
Lazzaro lie to the left. We leaned over the balustrade and
watched the gondolas moored to the quay, below. Two of them,
evidently belonging to some prelate or to a family of importance,
were lined with black cloth, the overhanging lappets of the canopy
cut in squares and bound with gilt braid. The two gondoliers
wore a livery of black and gold.

The library holds many rare manuscripts; among them, a very
old Slavonic Testament, a copy of Dante’s Divine Comedy dating
from the 13th century, the ﬁrst book printed in _Venice in 1469,
and a missal bound in Byzantine covers incrusted with pearls,
which, in the 9th century, belonged to the church of St. Sophia,
at Constantinople.

The prisons, which are underneath the palace, are reached by
a narrow staircase. Some of the dungeons are grewsome enough;
small and absolutely dark, with apertures in the wall for the
admission of food and air. The most dangerous prisoners were
once conﬁned in these dungeons; near them was the torture cham-
ber, and the place for executions.

A covered marble bridge, renowned, the world over, as the
Bridge of Sighs, connects the palace with the prison opposite, which
is still in use. We walked along the narrow passage and looked
through the barred windows that have given many an unfortunate
his last glimpse of the outside world. How welcome was the fresh
air and soft, bright sunshine as we came from that fateful spot
into the broad Piazza!

An Italian artist tells‘ me that, one evening a few years ago,
he was sitting at a table in the Piazza with some friends, including

