10.0 FRO.” CAP}?! T0 BRAVO/SI

twenty years old. They tell us that they have had no trouble
whatever, and feel as safe as if in their native town, which cer-
tainly speaks volumes for the chivalry of Italian men.

Every bend in the coast from Sorrento to Salerno presents a
new picture. We rolled along the smooth road cut in the side of
the mountain. above the sea, in and out. through tunnels and quaint
villages. In many houses there are openings similar to port holes,
left. we were told, in the plastered walls by the removal of the
scaffolding. Air thus penetrates the woodwork, preventing dry rot.
Near one of the towns were some little girls spinning by the way-
side. They do not use a wheel, but work with a distaﬁ and
spindle carried in the hand. A mountain torrent dashes . down a
ravine at Arienzo, while towering cliffs jut out. in some places form-
ing canopies over the hard, white drive. The mountains all along
the coast are terraced and covered with lemon and olive trees, or
fields of grain. Numerous watch-towers point to a barbarous age
when pirates infested the seas. The people of this region are,
many of them, very poor. Some. burrow in the sides of the moun-
tains, as do the gypsies in Spain.

It was high noon before we had our ﬁrst view of Amalﬁ, once
an important seaport town, which became an independent state
under the presidency of a doge. In the 12th century, the sea began
to undermine the town, and, after a terrible inundation in the 14th
century, its importance declined. the population dwindling from 50,-
000 to 7,000.

The principal point of interest in Amalfi is the old monastery
(now a hotel) which came into the possession of the Capuchins in
1583. It stands in the hollow of a cliff rising from the sea to a
height of 2 30 ft. A large grotto beside it was used as a sort of
Calvary, and still contains three wooden crosses. To the arms of
the central one are fastened the cup. the nails and the sponge,
tokens of Christ's suffering. The rooms of the monastery open
upon ﬁne Cloisters connected with a chapel.

The remains of St. Andrew are said to rest in the cathedral
of that name; but we were unable to go there, on account of a
storm, which gathered while we were at dinner. Looking out of
the window we could see fishermen taking in the nets spread out

