4.68 L 0N D OA"

to study London styles, for, as I have said before, the best
people are in town. However, on entering the HOtel Cecil,
we were dismayed at the sight of the décolleté gowns worn
by women who were promenading up and down, after dinner, and
we concluded that it was too fashionable for us, and that our simple
travelling dresses would be more in keeping with a quieter place.
We are now at a family hotel on Howard Street, near the Strand,
and within two minutes’ walk of a dozen lines of omnibuses, which
is very convenient. The terms are low for room and breakfast,
and other meals we take in our room, or wherever we happen to
be. The breakfast is quite as elaborate as a dinner, and on the
buffet, at one side, are cold joints from which one can order a
slice. The servants, like all English domestics, are quiet, attentive
and deferential, a welcome change from those in Paris. All about
our hotel are famous old houses once occupied by noblemen, but
now used for business purposes. Not ﬁve minutes’ walk from here
is Somerset House, a palace in itself.

\Ve had a quiet, restful Sunday morning, and in the afternoon
attended the song service at St. Paul’s. Old St. Paul's, begun in
1087, was probably the third Christian church to occupy this site.
In 1561, it was injured by fire and, during the reign of James 1.,
the dilapidated nave became a rendezvous. “Crowds of merchants
with their hats on transacted business in the aisles, and used the
font as a counter upon which to make their payments; lawyers re-
ceived clients at their several pillars; and masterless serving-men
waited to be engaged upon their own particular bench. Besides
those who came on business there were gallants dressed in fashion-
able ﬁnery, so that it was worth the tailor’s while to stand behind
a pillar and ﬁll his table-books with notes. When the cathedral
was being rebuilt Sir Christopher \Vren made a strict order against
any profanation of the sacred building.”

Near by, once stood the famous Cross of St. Paul, where the
Pope's condemnation of Luther was read in the presence of Car-
dinal \Volsey, and where heretics were brought to recant, and
witches to confess.

The present St. Paul's, begun in 1675, after designs by Sir
Christopher Wren, is the third largest church in the world, and

