72 GRA IVA DA

night I asked him his charges per day. He straightened himself
Up in a grandiose way and said that he was not a professional
guide, but a Spanish gentleman, and always took care of his guests.
1, therefore, begged his pardon, and thanked him for his kind atten-
tions as warmly as my poor Spanish would permit.

After dinner he asked us if we did not want to go into the
kitchen, and we very gladly accepted the invitation to see that
part of this quaint old house. The walls were whitewashed—
everything is, here, but the people. An old-fashioned stove, some-
thing like a range, was placed upon a block of stone. A heap of~
charcoal indicated the kind of fuel. Upon the walls hung brass
kettles and copper ware, each piece polished till it shone like a
mirror. A great earthen jar, shaped like the Greek wine jars we
saw at the VVorld’s Fair, stood in one corner, and the tables and
stone ﬂoor were as white as sand and soap could make them.

The wife of our host, the withered old woman who met us on
our arrival, seems years the senior of her portly husband and quite
his inferior intellectually. The women of Spain mature early and
their beauty fades with great rapidity after they reach the age of
thirty. They are domestic and know nothing about advanced ideas,
and yet they seem to be content. I do not believe Seﬁora Car-
mona knows the meaning of “woman’s rights,” in the common
acceptance of the term. She seems as fond of her husband as he
of her, and. so far as I can observe, has pretty much her own way,
without apparent friction. While we were her guests she certainly
held the purse- -strings.

There is a shop on the Alhambra hill where small models of
the exquisitely carved doors of the palace are made. Mrs. M.
could not resist their attractiveness and purchased one, but, as it
was too large and fragile to carry about with her, she was obliged
to send it by freight to Chicago. We both tried to make the shop-
keeper understand that she wanted a bill of lading, but to no avail.
So she must simply have faith in the Spanish way of doing busi-
ness, as she has nothing to show for the article except the ordinary
receipted bill.

This afternoon we took a carriage and with our guide drove
all about the city, going ﬁrst to the Chapel of the Kings, which

