A’OJ/li 207

ﬂower girls, in their short skirts, velvet bodices, full waists, guimpes
and ﬂat headdresses, were standing on the corner, with baskets of
roses on their heads. One of them, who had evidently a weak-
ness for ﬂirtation, offered a cabman, stationed near by, a rose.
This excited the playful jealousy of several young workingmen in
a shop on the corner, who came out and teased her for another
rose. \Vhen she refused, they pulled her sleeves and tipped up
her chin, looking into her face and, doubtless, saying the most
flattering things. It was of no avail; she airily tossed her head,
readjusted her basket and disapp 'ared. The fortunate possessor of
the rosebud placed it in his buttonhole and strutted back to his
throne on the box of the cab. A man, with milk in long-necked
glass bottles almost covered with wickerwork and corked with a
crisp lettuce leaf, is jogging along the street; and a boy, selling
little nutcakes with a dab of chocolate on top, is on a neigh-
boring doorstep.

The costumes of the peasants are all picturesque, though often
in need of repairs. The girls wear bodices of velvet or cloth made
exactly like a corset. Inside the front steels a narrow board is
worn, to prevent them from bending. It is the fashion for the
suitors, or male friends of the young women, to carve their names
and, if they desire, some appropriate device, such as a heart, on
this board, which is easily removed, being between the bodice and
the full inside waist.

It is said that even educated 'Italians are superstitious. An
American lady, who has moved in society here, tells us that they
are ﬁrm believers in the Evil Eye, and that a Roman lady of
position and wealth has been ostracized socially, because misfortune
or accident overtook some member of several families, while she
was visiting them. For that reason. she has been accused of
having the Evil Eye.

Rome is a perfect garden of ﬂowers; they are sold on nearly
every street corner, and vendors walk about, laden with bouquets
and baskets of the richest blossoms. Little children sell clusters
of poppies, nearly as large as themselves, for half a lira. Yes-
terday, when Mrs. M. returned from a shopping tour, she not
only brought some Roman scarfs and bags in gay stripes, but a

