120 .4 TIE/ENS

bounded on the north and south by massive walls. The north
wing, the best preserved, contains a hall called the Pinacotheca
from its use as a receptacle for votive paintings. During the 13th
century. the Franks converted this wing into government ofﬁces.
The Turkish pashas afterward resided there. until the central
structure was destroyed by an explosion of gunpowder in 1687.

Passing through the east portico of the Propylaea, we found our-
selves within the precincts of the Acropolis, with the perfect outlines
of the Parthenon in full view. The erection of this massive pile
of Pentelic marble was, as I have said, due mainly to Pericles,
whose executive ability was unparalleled. He secured the necessary
funds and placed the construction of the building in the hands of
two clever architects, Ictinus and Callicrates, entrusting the orna-
mentation to his friend, Phidias, who proved to be the greatest
sculptor of the age. The work was ﬁnished in 438 B. C. Surely
no pen could exaggerate the nobility and the dignity which clothe
this matchless structure. All traces of its many-colored decorations
have disappeared; only a few fragments of its sculptures remain;
but the massive ‘Doric columns, and architrave,* the symmetrical
metopcs and pediments are combined with such masterly knowledge
of construction and harmony that the effect is soul—satisfying. All
the columns swell in the center and lean a triﬂe toward the interior,
producing an impression of elasticity, most attractive to the eye.
Forty-six of these pillars form the portico of the temple and sur-
round the wall of the cella. Along the top of the wall, within the
portico, ran a magniﬁcent sculptured frieze. It portrayed the citi-
zens of Athens on their way to the temple, to present to the
goddess Athena a saffron-colored robe woven by Athenian virgins;
a ceremony performed every four years. The east portico con-
tained the sacred vessels and votive offerings, while a small room
back of the cella served as a storehouse for the national treasure.

At one end of the cella, and facing the door into the pronaos.+
stood the splendid statue of the goddess Athena by Phidias. It
was thirty-nine feet in height and made of wood, covered with some
plastic material. Plates of ivory represented the ﬂesh, and the

 

 

 

 

*The part resting immediately on the columns.
{A porch of a temple.

