I48 FRO.” OLYMPIA T0 ROJ/[E

the god of reproduction, the gentle shepherd who protected the
newly born lamb, and the conductor of departing souls. He is
represented standing; one arm supports his infant brother Dionysus,
while the other is raised aloft; the hand probably held a bunch
of grapes temptingly before the eyes of the babe. A deep line
furrows the brow of the Hermes, making it double, and passes
about the head, signifying that he was a direct descendant of Zeus.
As is usual in ancient statues of divinities, the absence of the
organs of digestion is noticeable in the anatomy of the form. One
foot is restored; the other still shows traces of color in the exquisite
carving of the sandal, a thread of scarlet, a touch, here and there,
of gold. The visitors to the hall of Hermes walk about on tiptoe
and dream over the marvellous sweetness of the face. To see it
is to love it, and, although modelled by a pagan hand, the divine
essence of a soul truly great has penetrated the stone and' will
breathe forth, forever.

\Vhen we came out from the museum, we saw a party of ﬁfty
archaeologists, returning from a visit to Tripolitza, the only town
of any size in Arcadia.* They were mounted on mules, and were
the most bedraggled, worn-out-looking mortals imaginable. They
stopped at another hotel. the only one besides ours; it is considered
inferior by tourists. We wondered how they fared, for the best
was bad enough.

When we looked out of the window that evening. at twilight,
the prettiest pastoral scene greeted our eyes. On one of the hill-
sides was a cirCular hedge, and a couple of shepherds, aided by the
liveliest little dog you ever saw, were gathering the sheep into the
rustic fold. The ﬂock huddled together in the center of the in-
closure. and soon lay down to sleep, the mites of lambs cuddling
up to their woolly mammas. The little dog scurried about the out-
side of the hedge, poking his nose under each projecting bush, as
if the responsibility for stray lambs rested entirely upon his diminu-
tive shoulders. At last, all became quiet, and his dogship rested
on his haunches, with panting sides and lolling tongue, while the
shepherds leaned on their crooks in front of a simple hut and
gazed pensively off across the valley.

 

* An inland province of the Peloponnesus.

 

