376 THE HAGUE, AJISTEA’DAJI, Ali-VD DELFT

Dutch cattle that artists love to paint, with big blotches of brown
and white on their sleek sides. In the distance were the faint out-
lines of the city, enveloped in the radiance of the sun, that was slowly
sinking into the sea. It seemed as if we were looking into the
open gates of the New Jerusalem with the glory shining through.

The Hague was once the hunting ground of the Counts of
Holland, and was therefore called, ’8. Graven Hage. or “the counts
hedge.” It has many broad, shady streets and large squares.
The style of architecture is homely and unpretentious, narrow, red
bricks being generally used as building material. The Hall of the
Knights, the Chambers of the States General. and the Courts of
Justice form a group of medizeval buildings on the southeast side
of the Vyver.* Not far away is the Mauritshuis, containing a collec-
tion of pictures made by the House of Orange.

The artist, Rembrandt van Ryn. born at Leyden in 1607, might
be called the pride of Holland. He was both a realist and an
idealist, for the rudest subject which he treated was ﬁlled with
the poetry that always emanates from truthfulness of purpose.
Rembrandt was married early in life to Saskia van Ulenburgh, a
delightful companion, if one may judge by her picture in “The
Breakfast,” where she is portrayed seated upon her husband’s knee.
As a painter of lights and shadows, he was unsurpassed, and as
an etcher, his superiority over all others is admitted. Rembrandt's
earliest manner in painting is represented by ﬁve works. including
the famous “School of Anatomy,” a picture well known to students
of medicine, as well as to lovers of art, for copies are found in many
medical colleges in Europe and America. It depicts a scene in a
dissecting room. The anatomist. Nicolaus Tulp, is lecturing on a
sinew of the arm of a subject, lying at full length on the table;
about him are-grouped several surgeons, but the position of the
lecturer indicates that he is speaking to others beyond this group,
and not visible in the picture; thus, the scope of the canvas seems
to be enlarged. The masterly treatment of light and shade cannot
be described. One always feels the thick darkness of a Rembrandt.
and it is a relief when a ﬁgure emerges from the shadows into the
golden light so cleverly introduced.

 

 

 

* A ﬁsh pond.

