SE VIL L E 5 5

One bright afternoon we went by carriage to visit the ruins of
Italica, a city founded by Scipio Africanus* in 210 B. C. We
passed over the old iron bridge that spans the Guadalquivir, con-
necting Seville and the gypsy quarter of Triana. It was Sunday,
and, as is the custom of the lower classes after their morning of
devotion in the churches. the people were Spending the afternoon
in pleasure. Everywhere were little groups of men and women
laughing and chatting, or having a social glass of wine with some
congenial neighbor. In front of a wine-shop was a pretty girl danc-
ing the fandango, the national dance, her feet keeping time to the
clapping of hands which was vigorously kept up by an admiring
throng that applauded her graceful movements. Gypsy wagons
crept along the smooth road. They had canvas tops and were
drawn by mules and donkeys hitched tandem, sometimes in a string
of eight. Besides pulling the wagon, they bore panniers so heavy
that it seemed as if even their tough backs must break.

Of the former magniﬁcence of Italica little remains, save the
ruins of the amphitheater.

This Roman Plaza de Toros still shows portions of the tiers
of seats, now so broken and moss-covered as to look scarcely two
inches wide. Long galleries around the base, underneath the seats,
were here and there divided off for different purposes. The old
custodian showed us the cages from which the lions rushed forth
into the arena, and a cell where Christians were conﬁned previous
to their martyrdom. In the walls of this cell is a niche where
once stood the image of a heathen god which they refused to wor-
ship. In the gladiators' apartment a round stone basin set in the
ﬂoor served as a lavatory. After the contests the corpses of men
and beasts were thrown into a deep well near by. The little vine-
clad house of the custodian nestles beside one of the great boulders
thrown up by an earthquake in 1775.

we had a time with the beggars on the way back to Seville,
but at last escaped by throwing them coppers. for which we left
them scrambling and ﬁghting. Alas! they are the torments of this
beautiful country. to which they cling like parasites.

 

* Roman general.

