- 228 P18}! .4 -\'D 1"], OREA'C'E

as Jupiter loved Juno, and from all accounts was rather more con-
stant. \Ve lingered spellbound over plate, chalice and reliquary,*
where jewels are set so deftly in the designs that they seem to be
painted. But the guides impatience awakened us from this “dream
of gold” to the stern, reality of dipping into our purses for a half franc
fee. Oh, to think that I had to come away, and that I may never
again see those perfect creations! Nevertheless, the recollection of
them is all mine to keep in the storehouse, of my memory, forever.

On leaving the Silver Room, we went directly into the Boboli
Gardens, which are laid out in terraces on the hill back of the
palace, high above the city. There is a very pretty grotto, and
innumerable walks wind under the ilex trees trained ‘to form an
arbor overhead. Some of the paths are adorned with statues, and
lead to beautiful fountains and rustic summer houses.

The policy of the Medici family, so far as agriculture and
commerce were concerned, was excellent, and though they ruled
with an iron hand, their patronage of art, science and letters was
muniﬁcent. Artist after artist was sought out and aided to develop
his talents, and to the Medici Florence owes many of her treasures.
The pride of the city is the statue of David by Michael Angelo,
who was bOrn during the reign of Lorenzo, the Magniﬁcent.
Carved from a block of marble, discarded as spoiled, it stood for
years in front of the Palazzo Vecchio, but is now in the Academy
of Fine Arts. The house where the sculptor lived is at present a
museum. His remains rest in the church of Santa Croce beneath
the monument erected to his memory.

‘The day before we left Florence, we visited the Protestant
cemetery, where Elizabeth Barrett Browning is buried. Her proﬁle,
laurel-crowned, is cut in low relief on one side of the sarcophagus
which is supported by four columns. Remembering how far away
beneath the stones of \Vestminster Abbey lies the husband so
fondly beloved. I recall the lines written by one of her friends:—

“ Parted in death they lay,
But hand in hand they
Hold their eternal way.”

 

_ _— —_ J_—____ _W .—

* Casket inclosing relics.

 

 

