44o , PAR/S

neath the glittering dome of the Hetel des Invalides, is an open.
circular crypt of marble. In the mosaic of the pavement is a laurel
wreath bound with purple ribbons, and there, also, are recorded
the names of battles. In the center stands the sarcophagus, cut
from a solid block of red Finnish granite, weighing sixty-seven tons. _
As if on guard about the crypt, are twelve statues of Victory and
sixty battle ﬂags recalling the triumphs of the Emperor. The light,
tinged with blue by the glass of the dome, sheds its dim rays over
the polished marble, enhancing its solemn grandeur. Opposite the
entrance is the high altar bathed in a golden glory, which streams
through the orange glass of the side windows in warm contrast to
the cold, blue shadows of the crypt, symbolizing, in the language
of sublime color, Death and Immortality.

When one studies the lifeof Napoleon, seriously, he ﬁnds
that it is a difﬁcult matter to avoid admiring intensely his courage,
executive ability and tireless energy; on the other hand, how much
there is to blame! Said \Vordsworthz—

“I grieved for Buonaparté, with a vain
And an unthinking grief! for, who aspires
To genuine greatness but from just desires,
And knowledge such as he could never gain?
’Tis not in battles that from youth we train
The Governor who must be wise and good,
And temper with the sternness of the brain
Thoughts motherly, and meek as womanhood.
Wisdom doth live with children round her knees:
Books, leisure, perfect freedom, and the talk
Man holds with week-day man in the hourly walk
Of the mind’s business: these are the degrees
By which true Sway doth mount; this is the stalk
True Power doth grow on; and her rights are these.”

The HOtel des Invalides is a home for wounded and disabled
soldiers, and it seems fitting that Napoleon should be surrounded
by those who have suffered for their country. In the museum are
preserved the Emperor’s swords, camp bed, ﬂags and many famous
documents.

One day, after a three hours’ walk in the cemetery of Pere

