328 DEER/JEN AND C.-~llr’/..S‘1)’A[)

dance, as, with violin in hand, he conducted his orchestra and
brought out, with the touch of his bow, the strains of that waltz,
always new,‘ always dear to the German heart.

The best pictures of this Saxon art center are collected in
the extensive Zwinger gallery. The building incircles an immense
court ﬁlled with shrubbery, ﬂowers and statuary. Nearly all the
great masters are represented here, and we especially admired a
painting of the “Children of Charles 1.,” by Van Dyck.

In a room by itself is the celebrated “Sistine Madonna,’
pronounced by many to be the ﬁnest oil painting in the world. The
earnest eyes of the Virgin looked down upon us with an expression
full of sympathy and tenderness embracing all suffering humanity;
the very apotheosis of motherhood. From the graceful form radiate
strength, purity and love. The very colors in the draperies are
imbued with a subtle power, that rivets the attention of the be—
holder, and haunts him, ever after. There is an appeal in the
eyes of the Christ child, who seems to gaze‘far beyond this world
into the next.

In a section devoted to modern art, there is a wonderful
picture called “Summer," by Makart. The central ﬁgure is a lovely
creature reclining on a silken couch beneath a crimson canopy;
she is playing with butterﬂies, her laughing, upturned face dis-
playing, through the lines of scarlet lips, the pearly te'eth. Other
beautiful forms rise from the water on the left, where they have
been bathing. The canvas seems to glow with the peculiar bril-
liancy for which the Austrian master was noted.

The eight rooms of the Green Vaults, in the royal palace,
contain over 3,000 works of art in gold, silver, precious stones, and
other materials. Here, are kept the crown jewels of Saxony;
among them, the famous green diamond; also, the regalia of Au-
gustus, King of Poland; swords of famous warriors, and cups of
amber. There is a jewel case in the shape of a roc, a mythical
bird of “The Arabian Nights," carved from a single piece of
jasper. \Ve saw, too, a rock crystal goblet once owned by Martin
Luther.

On the second evening we heard the opera of the “Trumpeter
of Séickingen," at the superbly decorated Royal Opera House. \Ve

!

