222 PISA AJVD FLOREA’CE

rivalled only by the “Venus de Milo"* in Paris. I was disappointed
in this statue; the face seemed too narrow. and the pose, affected.
However, the group of the Wrestlers was superb, the play of the
muscles being wonderfully brought out.

A little genre+ picture by Gerard Dou, the Dutch master,
merits description. It is called the “Pancake Seller,” and shows
the exterior of a Dutch cottage; here an old woman is seated, the
jar of batter by her side and the griddle in front. Some school
girls have been beguiled into buying the crisp cakes, and one is
already testing them. Her look of bliss mingled with questioning
is comical, as she glances at the unobservant sister. who is paying
for the treat. The watery eyes, the wrinkled skin of the old
woman, even the broken teeth in her jaws can be seen, and yet
the whole head is not more than an inch in diameter.

Dou, it is said. never allowed a window to be opened in the
room where he painted, so fearful was he lest a particle of dust
should lodge on his work. His stroke was extremely delicate, and
some of his brushes contained but a single hair.

It is astonishing how many artists live by copying the works
of the old masters; they often block the way and make it difﬁcult
for visitors to get a good view of the pictures. Men and women
thoroughly trained in the technique of art frequently discover, in
the course of time, that they are devoid of creative power and,
therefore, are obliged to reproduce famous paintings. It is, some-
times, no easy matter to obtain permission to do so, as there are
so many applicants that places are engaged years ahead, at great
expense. Mrs. M. bought a ﬁne copy of one of the groups in the
Coronation of the Virgin by Fra Angelico, once a monk of San
Marco. His work is known by the delicate poetry in the composi-
tion, and by the exquisite coloring which attracts the attention of
the most indifferent observer.

Yesterday was Ascension Day, one of the principal church
festivals, celebrated here with a Carnival of Flowers. Ascension
Day is also called by the Florentines Giorno dei Grilli, because of
a pagan custom, which still holds good. of doing honor, so to speak,

 

* Melos, an island in the {Egean Sea.
1' Home scene.

