104 71/5 [OAT/AA? [SLES

body was brought to Corfu in 1489, where it reposes in a silver
cofﬁn surrounded by lighted candles, near the high altar of this
church. Three times a year, the cofﬁn is borne through the streets
with great solemnity.

As we stood before it admiring the embossed silver and ex-
quisite paintings on porcelain which adorn the lid a peasant woman
entered who, crossing herself three times knelt on the steps of
the platform; then, rising, pressed her lips to each picture in
turn. Her hair brought over a large cushion projecting over the
left ear, was wound around her head and draped with a thin
white veil.

The decorations of the Greek Catholic churches are much
simpler and richer than those of the Roman. No “graven images”
are permitted; consequently, the absence of statuary or reliefs is
marked.

From St. Spiridion. we drove through narrow streets to the
Esplanade, where the Royal Palace is situated.

Thence, a ﬁne drive, bordered on one side by gnarled olive trees,
led us to the summer villa of the King and Queen of Greece, where
we walked through splendid gardens ﬁlled with tropical foliage.
There were aloes, magnolias, palms and papyri, as well as ﬂowers
and statuary. A custodian conducted us through the principal rooms
of the palace, furnished with the utmost simplicity, though every-
thing is of the ﬁnest quality.

After plucking a few sprigs of the periwinkle that grows in
abundance along the paths, we went on to the Canone, or one-gun
battery, at the end of the drive, which commands a view of the
east coast. Opposite to the entrance of the old Hyllzean harbor.
now unused, lies the isle of Ponticonisi, on which is a small chapel.
Tradition describes it as the theacian* ship that bore Odysseus'l to
Ithaca. and which was afterward changed into stone by Poseidon,
the god of the sea. On the shore, near the brook Cressida. is the
place where. according to Homer, the Princess Nausicaa ﬁrst saw
Odysseus. The story runs thus:—

\Vhen the hero was wrecked near the island of the Phaeacians.

 

* A mythical people. '

T Ulysses.

