 

 

 

 

 

 

V l E .VA’A .4 3’1) B UDA PES 7' 3 1 I

the vaults containing the double, bronze sarcophagus of Maria
Theresa and her husband, Francis 1. Upon the lid are their life-
size efﬁgies, half reclining on cushions and looking directly at each
other. Near by, is Marie Louise, Napoleon's second wife, and also,
her son. \Ne bowed our heads, for a moment, beside the cofﬁn of
poor Maximilian, who was “more sinned against than sinning."

According to an ancient custom, the hearts of all the emperors
and empresses, since Matthias, are inclosed in gold and silver urns,
which are kept in a small chapel in the old Augustine Church.
One can peep into the little room through iron bars. The urns
stand in rows upon a raised slab of stone, like jars of preserves on
a pantry shelf, if the simile is allowable. In the church is the
celebrated monument, by Canova, in honor of the Archduchess
Maria Christina; it is a pyramid of white marble, with the door
open. A procession is walking up the broad steps and entering
the door of the tomb; childhood, youth and old age are represented
with bent heads and bearing inverted torches. Opposite, on the
right, is a lion, and the reclining ﬁgure of an angel.

The greatest musicians the world has ever known lie in Cen-
tral Cemetery, Vienna. It is magniﬁcently kept, and has ﬁne
avenues of locust and cypress trees, trimmed to form alcoves in
which monuments are placed. As we approached the part sacred
to music, we saw a triangular grassplot with the design of a colossal
harp, in ﬂowering plants. About it are the monuments of Mozart,
Beethoven, Schubert and Gluck. The painters and architects, who
have been an honor to their country, are also buried in a special
plot.

One day we had a View of Vienna from the top of the Kahlen-
berg, a mountain overlooking the city. The little steam engine on
the rack-and-pinior. line pulled us slowly to the top, through thick
pine and beech woods. Mountain ﬂowers bloomed in wildest pro-
fusion at the roadside. The view from the hotel veranda, where
we had our dinner, was glorious, embracing the spurs of the Car-
pathians, and the Styrian Alps. Beside one of the steep footpaths
of the Kahlenberg, is a bust of Beethoven, marking the spot where
the master often rested. \Vith his reserved temperament, solitude
was a boon. The picturesque beauty of the mountains tamed the

_JM”EE _ —

