I 60 1? 0.115

who paused to kiss the right foot of the statue. One woman, with
a sense of cleanliness. wiped it with her handkerchief before press-
ing her lips to its surface. The toes of this foot are worn away
by the religious fervor of successive generations.

In the transepts and side aisles are the elaborate monuments
of many popes and other notabilities. which. with few exceptions,
are lnartlstlc.

From the high altar the view of the interior is striking, com-
manding the tremendous height of the dome. which is 403 ft. from
pavement to lantern, and the splendid sweep of the vaulted aisles.
Notwithstanding its immensity, the dome, brilliant with the purple
and gold of mosaics, is wonderfully light and graceful. Beneath it
is the high altar, where the pope alone ofﬁciates. In front of this
altar a double ﬂight of marble steps leads to the crypt; the balus-
trade is surmounted by eighty-nine ever-burning lamps. The tomb
- said to contain a portion of the remains of St. Peter is in the crypt.
Before the bronze doors kneels the marble ﬁgure of Pope Pius VI.,
who established the Vatican museum. We made an attempt to
climb to the top of the dome, but, half way up, our strength gave
out, and we were forced to be content with a view from the great
gallery, whence the people below seemed like midgets.

In the afternoon, we dressed in such purple and ﬁne linen as
our limited wardrobes afforded, and drove to the Villino* Aurora,
to call upon Hermon MacNeil, the sculptor, who, last year, won the
“Prix de [€077zc"+ of America. The Villino Aurora is part of the
Ludovisi estate, which occupies the site of the magniﬁcent gardens
of Sallust, the historian. It is situated on a low hill, reached by a
ﬂight of steps cut in the rock and overgrown with mosses and
ﬂowers. On the ceiling of the entrance hall is a fresco by Guer-
cino.1 It looked to me like a very black and ugly Aurora disporting
on some heavy clouds.

We were taken into a large, airy ‘studio connected with a
pretty suite of living rooms. A tall screen divides the room into

 

 

* A small villa.

T Prize covering the expenses of four years’ study in Rome.

IGiovanni Barbieri, an Italian artist of the 16th century, surnamed Guer-
cino, on account of a squint.

