250 VENICE

baster and choice marbles, is overwhelming. The pavement of
stone mosaic dates 'from the 12th century and, though frequently
restored, is in a deplorable condition. Beneath the high altar rest
the ashes of St. Mark. brought from Alexandria in 829. The altar-
piece of plates of gold and silver, enamelled and set with gems,
was made in Constantinople in 1105. .

Thousands of pigeons ﬁnd homes under the arches of St.
Mark’s, and are fed daily by the charitable, who buy corn sold
for that purpose in the Piazza. These plump birds with iridescent
throats alight familiarly upon one's arms and shoulders, a bright,
inquiring look in their eyes, as if asking for more grain.

In the Piazzetta are two granite columns, spoils from an
eastern city; one bearing the \Vinged Lion of St. Mark, the other,
St. Theodore on a crocodile, representing the Divine Spirit con-
quering the venomous in life. Ruskin points out that one of
these shafts is slender, the other more massive; that the clever
Venetian who carved the capitals conceived the idea of placing a
large top on the slender column, and a smaller one on the other:
thus, by careful graduation of line and curve, equalizing the two
and making them as nearly twin pillars as possible. Prisoners of
state were executed between them.

Towering above the surrounding buildings is the Campanile,
322 ft. in height. The sculptured vestibule at the base was once
a favorite meeting-place of the nobility.

Close to the cathedral is the Palace of the Doges, who once
ruled Venice. It has been destroyed ﬁve times and, each time,
rebuilt with greater magniﬁcence than before. On the west and
south of the present Gothic structure, built in the 15th century.
are colonnades, one above the other; there are thirty—six columns
in the lower, and seventy-one in the upper which is called “La
Loggia.” Upon this rests the upper part of the building faced by
slabs of colored marble. The capitals of the columns below are
richly carved; while all are beautiful, the one on the corner next
the lagoons is considered by some critics to be the ﬁnest in
Europe. The grouping of the sculptured foliage is strikingly
natural: one almost feels the wind in the broad acanthus leaves,
they seem so ﬂexible.

