PISA AND FLORENCE 215

Savonarola and, terriﬁed by the effect of his sermons on the people,
began to plot against him. The prophet was invited to Rome, and
the rank of cardinal was offered him. He refused it with scorn
and, thereafter, paid no heed to the summons of the Pope. As a
result of his independence, he was excommunicated in 1497, but
refused to accept the decree, maintaining that Alexander was not
a true pope, and maintaining that his mission was a divine one.
But the shadow of a tragic fate was already impending. In April,
1498, Savonarola and two of his followers were arrested, tried by
malicious judges, and imprisoned for forty days, the great preacher
in a cell in the lofty tower of the Palazzo Vecchio. _The prisoners
were subjected to the most awful tortures and though, while in
agony, Savonarola promised to recant, as soon as he was unbound,
calling upon God to forgive him for his weakness, he would repeat
his former statements. Upon the morning of May 23rd, 1498,
the three monks were hung from a cross erected on the piazza;
the torch was applied to the fagots 'beneath, and the martyrs were
consumed in the ﬂames. It was a black day for Florence, the
blot upon whose escutcheon can never be effaced.

In Savonarola’s cell at the monastery of San Marco, we saw
the vestments he had worn, the rosary he had carried, while from
the wall looked down the stern, splendid face, as painted by Fra
Bartolommeo. *

We visited the Palazzo Vecchio whence Savonarola was taken
to his death. Crossing a spacious court around which were the
armorial bearings of different factions that have ruled Florence, we
mounted the grand staircase and entered the Hall of the Five
Hundred, where the Great Council and Upper Council of the city
sat, in turn. At one end are statues of the Medici; at the other,
as if by the irony of fate, a colossal ﬁgure of Savonarola.

The Duomo, as the cathedral of Florence is usually called,
was begun in 1294, and ﬁnished, aside from the facade, in 1462.
It is of glistening white marble, banded with wra’c azzlz'(0.+ The
beautiful bell tower, designed by Giotto, which stands beside it, is
so lofty that it might well be the ladder of Jacob’s dream. Ruskin

_ —._—.——_—_ 4-i_4_i 7 __'

 

 

 

* A monk at San Marco, 1469-1517.
T Antique green marble.

