21.} PISA AJVD FL OREJVCE

head of Medusa," by Benvenuto Cellini, who was not only a
sculptor, but the greatest goldsmith that has ever lived.

The Piazza della Signoria has always been the forum of Flor-
ence, the meeting-place of the people, where Aristocracy hob-
nobbed with Genius and Art walked arm in arm with Literature.
lts pavement has echoed to the tread of the immortal Dante,
whose name is written across the pages of Italy’s history, in letters of
ﬁre. Here, in the early evening, he loved to greet his friend Giotto,
once a shepherd lad, who by the force of his talents became one
of the greatest architects and painters of his time. It was here
that Michael Angelo, Leonardo da Vinci and their friends chatted
'over the latest news from Rome, and, here, Savonarola, the Domin-
ican monk, was burned at the stake.

Girolamo Savonarola. born at Ferrara in 1452, accepted a
mission to preach in the Convent of San Marco in Florence. when
the power of Lorenzo de’ Medici, surnamed the Magniﬁcent, was
at its zenith. This -monk of simple and devout habits was horri-
ﬁed at the wanton luxury, immorality and spiritual torpor of the
Florentines, whom at that time he tried in vain to convert. Nine
years later he preached his ﬁrst sermon in the cathedral, which,
vast as it was, often failed to accommodate the numbers who ﬂocked
to hear his prophetic words. One of his most striking prophecies
related to the death of Lorenzo, who, when dying, sent for the
great preacher to absolve him from his sins. Savonarola consented
to do this, if Lorenzo would liberate Florence from the power of
the Medici; upon his refusal, the priest left his bedside, and the
ruler died unshriven.

Savonarola’s inﬂuence became so great that after a revolution,
when the city was left without a government, he became the law-
giver. A new republic was established; all Florence was puriﬁed
for the nonce by the inﬂuence of this ruler without a title. A
garden of pleasure was changed to a monastery. The people,
awakened by the ﬁery denunciations of the preacher, ceased their
revels, burned their ﬁne garments, their ornaments, and entered
Upon a life of the strictest piety and abstinence. Nevertheless, like
all sudden reforms, this was only on the surface, for such severe
discipline soon became irksome. The Pope became jealous of

