270 S I I 7318‘ ('l TIES A .VD .l/ l '3'] CH

last carriage. If one ever feels like an abject idiot, it is when, in
a strange country, the foreign word. indispensable at the moment,
is forgotten. I

The St. Gotthard railroad, piercing mountains, spanning gorges
and scaling heights, which seem almost inaccessible, connects with
many important lines of Germany, Holland, Belgium and France.
The great tunnel from Airolo to Goschenen. generally known as
the St. Gotthard, is nine miles in length. Its construction cost
177 lives. Every tunnel is patrolled by guards and every bridge
is frequently inspected, the greatest care being taken to make the
line absolutely safe.

From the car window, we had a splendid view of Bellinzona,
the Capital of Canton Ticino. It completely blocks the valley.
and the hills about are surmounted by feudal castles, the grim
walls telling their own story of ancient warfare.

Near Biasca is the pilgrim church of St. Petronilla, and, all
the way up the mountain, could be seen little shrines, where pil-
grims halt, on their way to the church.

At Airolo, we dashed into the yawning mouth of the great
tunnel, and, during the next twenty minutes, the roar of the loco-
motive repeated by the echoes nearly deafened us. Strange as it
may seem, the train passed under the village of Andermatt, 1,000
ft. above, and ﬁnally came out at Goschenen, where we found our-
selves in Switzerland. All the signs were in German and every-
where the proverbial Swiss cleanliness was apparent.

The famous apple scene between Gessler and W’illiam Tell
occurred at Altdorf, on this line. A small chapel between Im-
mensee and Kiissnacht marks the spot where the tyrant fell, laid
low by Tell’s unerring arrow.

Lucerne at the end of Lake Lucerne, a‘so known as the Lake of
the Four Forest Cantons, was our ﬁrst stopping place. It is one
of the most popular resorts in Switzerland, but, as it is early in
the season, many of the best hotels are not yet open and there
are few visitors. Unfortunately, no arrangements are available, as
yet, for ascending the mountains, and we were obliged to miss the
experience of going up the Rigi.

One'of the grandest monuments ever erected to bravery is the

