MONT 57‘. .M/CHEL, GRANVILLE, AND jERSE Y 449

decided to stay. All went well until we were settled in our room
and attempted to lock the door, when we found to our consterna-
tion that it only possessed an old-fashioned latch, and no lock
whatever. The same was true of a door leading into an adjoining
chamber. While we were debating what to do, for we knew it
would be useless, at that late hour, to search for the landlady, we
heard a strange noise under the window. Peering out, we saw
a man in the garden very quietly placing a long ladder against
the wall, beneath the window of the next room. Then we were
scared indeed! Visions of masked robbers with dark lanterns, and
tramps in blue blouses, with thick bludgeons, ﬂitted through our
tired brains, and we held a council of war. Although recalling
stories of the honesty and carelessness of the average farmer, who
sleeps with his doors open to the world, we remembered the
treasures which we had accumulated, and thinking that discretion
was the better part of trust, prepared for an attack. You ought
to have seen our defenses! they put Sebastopol in the shade! In
the ﬁrst place, we gathered all the stout cords and strings from
the baggage and connected the latches of the two doors; then, on
the strings, we hung candlesticks, a tin cup, our little frying pan,
the alcohol lamp, and all the articles that would make a great
clatter, if the doors should be disturbed. Finally, we stacked our
umbrellas, and canes so that they would fall if touched, and made
a barricade of the furniture, beds excepted. It did not occur to
us until we awoke the next morning, after a peaceful rest, that
probably the next room could only be reached through ours, and
that the person who was to sleep there had been obliged to enter
through the window, to avoid disturbing us. I really believe that,
in the end, we were a triﬂe disappointed at the prosaic ending of
the affair.

About nine o’clock, we mounted to‘the top of a coach and
started on a ﬁve-mile drive to Mont St. Michel, an isolated rock,
looming up out of the ocean, like a monster ship, about half a
mile from the coast. Its base is incircled by ramparts, and a
magniﬁcent Benedictine Abbey, partially hewn out of the rock
itself, crowns the height. In 1880, a causeway was built to connect

the island with the mainland. Below the abbey and church, lies
29

