I 30 A TEENS

sprig of olive, which would have conveyed the message, had he
been unable to speak. The battle of Marathon is considered one of
the thirteen decisive battles of the world, and probably saved Europe
from being overrun by Asiatics. .

The Greek who won the Marathon race last week was a young
peasant from the mountains, named Spiro Loues; untrained, and
unknown among athletes. He accomplished the run in less time
than his famous predecessor, but the latter was already spent with
the battle, while Loues was perfectly fresh. He might now be a
rich man, had he accepted the costly gifts offered him as a reward
for his feat, but he refused them all, saying that he strove for the
honor of his country, and not for money. Such is the inherent
nobility of the Greek. Some humorous incidents occurred at the
ﬁnish of the race. It is said that a French lady tore off a costly
watch and chain, and offered them to Loués; that a barber wished
to shave him, free of charge, for the rest of his life, and that the
keeper of a restaurant presented him with several hundred meal
tickets.

The Greeks seem restless under a monarchical system of gov-
ernment, and look forward with hope to a republic. All classes
take a keen interest in politics, which they discuss in every public
place, with the greatest animation.

It is maintained that, owing to the lack of interest in agri-
culture and manufactures, Greece would starve were it not for her
tremendous commerce with other nations. Among her chief ex-
ports are ﬁgs and oranges of a ﬁne quality and the superior oil
of Attica.

The names of the streets and public buildings, and the signs,
are perplexing to the average tourist, because of the peculiar Greek
letters. The cabmen are unable to speak any language save their
own; the calendar is twelve days behind ours, and, altogether, we
feel at every turn as if we ought to study the Greek alphabet. at
least, in order to see things intelligently.

The Greek Church exerts great inﬂuence. Its supreme au-
thority in Greece is the Synod,* meeting at Athens. There are

* A council of priests to consult on church matters.

 

 

 

