CASTLES ATVD COLLEGES 503

his face was about the color of a piece of red ﬂannel. We jogged
along behind, enjoying the fun immensely, and, when they drew up
in front of a small church, waited a moment until they had dis-
appeared within and then followed them, taking a rear seat. The
simple Church of England ceremony was soon over, and Mr. and
Mrs. “Tommy” walked down the aisle, while some little girls strewed
their way with rose petals and daisies.

It was only a short walk from this place to St. Mary’s, a vener-
able ediﬁce where the noble families of \Varwick and Kenilworth sleep
their last sleep. The curate, who happened to be in the church,
showed us about and explained the tombs.

The Ladye Chapelle is considered one of the most exquisite
examples of Gothic architecture in England, the stonework being
a marvel of carving. In the center is the tomb of Richard Beau-
champ, Earl of \Varwick, whose brass gilt efﬁgy rests upon the top.
I copied a part of the inscription, as the old English is so quaint:—

“Preieth devoutly for the Sowel whom God assoille of one of
the most worshipful Knightes in his .days of monhode & conning
Richard Beauchamp late Earl of Warrewik lord Dcspenser of Ber-
gevenny 8: of mony other grete lordships whos body resteth here
under his tumbe in a fulfeire vout of Stone set on the bare rooch
thewhuch visited with longe siknes in the Castel of Roan therinne
decessed ful cristenly the last day of April the year of our Lord
God AMCCCxxxix."

In the 17th century, the ﬂoor of the Ladye Chapelle fell in,
under the weight of the tomb, and the casket was broken open. The
body, which was perfect, returned to dust, on exposure to the air.
Some of the hair was woven into rings by the ladies of \Varwick.

To the left of the chapel, against the side wall, is the altar-tomb
of the cruel and ambitious Leicester. The sculptured figures of
the earl and his last wife are lying upon the sarcophagi. The
curate told us that the tomb was erected to the earl by this wife,
and related the manner of his death. Finding that the woman who
bore his name was, like his former wives, in the way, Leicester
resolved to rid himself of her. He mixed a deadly poison in a
cup of wine and awaited the Countess in their apartments. On
her appearance. he was suddenly seized with vertigo, and she,

