 

 

 

I"!:‘.~'\'/C'/€ 2 57

a German artist from Nuremberg, when a young lady elegantly
dressed, and accompanied by a middle—aged woman, passed down
the promenade. The girl was evidently an aristocrat. and so
beautiful that she, at once, attracted the attention of the group.
They noticed, especially, her extreme pallor, and spoke of her,
afterwards, as the “marble bride.”

One evening several weeks later, the same friends were drink-
ing their coffee in front of a (({ﬂé’ on the Riva degli Schiavoni, a
handsome quay east of the Doge’s Palace, when the young woman
and her companion again appeared. This time, she was plainly
attired and wore a dark veil. Approaching the cafe, she stopped,
and, throwing back her veil, drew from the folds of her mantle a
violin and began to play. In a moment, every one's attention was
arrested by the strains of exquisite music. drawn from the instru-
ment. An acquaintance of our friend exclaimed, “Is she really
here!” In reply to the eager questioning of the others, he stated
that she belonged to one of the best families in Trieste; that he
had heard rumors of her being in Venice, but had not seen her
before, and could not understand why she should appear as a street
musician. As the violinist ﬁnished playing, the elder lady, whom
the artist judged to be her mother, passed through the crowd which
had gathered, collecting coins, and presently the two disappeared.
This performance was repeated on a number of evenings, and. in
the meantime, the German artist seemed to be the only one who
succeeded in becoming acquainted with the fair musician.

One day, our Italian friend dropped into the German's studio
and found him painting a picture of three young girls playing upon
violins. He saw, on close examination, that the three were painted
from one model in different positions, and that this model was
the “marble bride."

A short time afterward, on the evening of a festival, the Grand
Canal was illuminated, and alive with boats. When the throng
was greatest, a steam launch, in pushing its way from station to
station through the maze of gondolas, capsized one in which were
seated the young girl, her mother and the German artist. The
German was saved; the mother lived two days after being taken
to the hospital, but the lovely violin player was drowned.

I7

