PARIS 433

Finally, however, he succeeded in carrying out his wishes and those
of his favorite, the Duchesse de la Valliere.

During the reign of his successor, Louis XV., Mme. de Pom-
padour was the ruling spirit at Versailles, where many extravagant
improvements were made, that her beauty and talents might have
an appropriate setting. Guizot says that Mme. de Pompadour was
fond of porcelain, and conceived the idea of imitating Dresden
china in France. She, therefore, founded, ﬁrst at Vincennes and
then at Sévres, a porcelain manufactory, which the king took under
his protection, requiring the courtiers to purchase the product. at
high prices.

In the time of Louis XVI., Versailles was sacked by a mob,
and here, on January 18th, 1871, King \Villiam of Prussia was
hailed as the Emperor of Germany. It is now a mere show place
and museum.

Our ﬁrst impressions of the palace were satisfactory, for the
general effect is harmonious, when seen from a distance; but a
nearer view reveals a distressing lack of harmony in‘ the architec-
ture. There are ﬁve large courts, the most interesting being the
“Court of Honor,” which contains a bronze equestrian statue of
Louis XIV., and also statues of eminent men. Here, the cynical
Cardinal Richelieu gazes at one with an imperious air; yonder, is the
noble ﬁgure of the Chevalier Bayard, “sans fear of sans ”prov/w.”

The historical paintings, which cover the walls of endless suites
of rooms, are superb; but the other decorations are not what we
expected to see. Even the celebrated Gallery of Mirrors would
have been a disappointment, if it had not been for the effective
ceiling paintings by Charles Lebrun. From the windows one looks
down into the gardens.

The Hall of Diana, though lined with marble, is ugly. and
the room where Louis XIV. breathed his last is narrow and over-
decorated with carving and gilding. From the balcony of this
room, which overlooks the Court of Honor, the ﬁrst Chamberlain
pronounced the famous sentence, “Le mi est marl/"1' immediately

 

 

 

*-‘\\~"ithout fear and without reproach.”
T “The King is dead.”

