32 TANG/ER

one that day, as ﬁne a speciman of Moorish nobility as one would
be likely to see, tearing down the street on a splendid horse.

In the Governor’s harem we were presented to one of his wives,
a son and a daughter. They received us in a large court Open to
the sky and surrounded by arcades. From this court, paved with
beautiful tiles, open small apartments which serve as bed chambers
and are furnished only with mattresses placed upon the ﬂoor and
covered with white sheets and pillows. All around the edge of the
rug which lay in the center of the dining-room are similar divans
for the inmates to lounge upon during their repasts. The dishes
are cracked and of common ware. About the different rooms were
open baskets containing the lens-lam which looked like cold plum
pudding.

The wife, who is about forty years of age. still shows traces
of beauty, while the soft black eyes and pale olive cheeks of the
daughter are most attractive.

The people of Tangier are so poor, that even the ofﬁcials are
unable to provide many comforts for their women. As I knew this,
I ventured to ask the daughter if she would sell me the hoop
hanging from one of her ears. After a good deal of bargaining, in
which even the servants took part, I' became the proud owner of
a rude silver circle large enough for a bracelet and strung with an
Oriental pearl and a purple glass bead. It was handmade and a
good specimen of Moorish handicraft.

From the harem it was but a step to the prison, where we
looked through small openings in the stone wall into the room
where the poor wretches, who have chanced to incur the displeasure
of the Califa, were herded like cattle. Some were chained in pairs,
and all looked the picture of despair. They are allowed to weave
baskets, which tourists are importuned to purchase.

Our donkeys were very tired by the time they had borne us
to the residence of the Belgian Consul, so we left them in charge
of the guides and took a stroll through the beautiful gardens about
the house, one of the sights of Tangier. There were walks lined
with palms, cacti, bananas and a tree called in Spanish mm-
pam'la, covered with white flowers. resembling somewhat an Easter
lily. The head gardener, who had visited America, presented us

