Raw: ‘ 171

hoarded, not for his own use, but for the advancement of the
interests of the Church, after his death. He is very fragile; his
face resembles a piece of old ivory, and only the brilliant eyes
betray the ﬁre of the soul within. His demise may be expected at
any time, on account of his advanced age, and there is much
speculation as to his successor in ofﬁce.

i A curious ceremony, says a well-known writer, takes place at
the deathbed of a pope. As soon as the breath has left the body,
the Chamberlain, always one of the cardinals, taps three times
upon the forehead with a silver hammer, and, at each blow, calls
loudly upon the name of the pope. If, at the third call, there is
no response, the announcement is made to the household, and then
to the world. that the pope is dead.

It is a well-known fact that the Vatican contains the ﬁnest
collection of sculpture extant, arranged in thirteen galleries, each
in itself a casket of jewels. The principal statues occupy separate
alcoves or small rooms, and the light is excellent. A gem in
marble stands in the Belvedere* of the Vatican; it is the “Apollo
Belvedere," said to have been discovered near Porto d’ Anzio, the
ancient Antium. The god is represented standing erect; the left
hand originally held the aegis, a shield with the head of Medusa'l' in
the center, with which he is supposed to be striking terror into the
Gauls who have attacked his sanctuary at Delphi. The expression
of the face indicates that Apollo is fully conscious of his superiority
to mortals; the lips are curved proudly, and the nostrils dilated
with passion. The “Discobolus"$ by Myron, the Greek sculptor,
though badly restored, commands immediate attention and admira-
tion. This ﬁgure, that of a lithe young Greek throwing the disc,
is the embodiment of physical grace. His toes, pressed ﬁrmly into
the earth, display the tension of the muscles as he leans lightly
forward; the right arm swings backward, and the hand holding
the disc of bronze is beautifully modelled. The famous .group of
the Laocoon was executed by three Rhodian artists. Laocoi'm, a

.—

 

 

.—__-

*A small building or part of a building from which a ﬁne view can he
obtained.

TA myth who had the power of turning all who looked upon her into stone.
I Disc or quoit thrower.

