frail/f 199

as well as French, Latin and Creek, was the jolliest old fellow
imaginable. In company with several other tourists we entered a
low but and started down a staircase, into the blackness of the
earth below. The monk looked back over his shoulder and with
a merry twinkle in his eyes asked if we were afraid. Although
our knees felt rather shaky, we assured him that we were as “brave
as lions." and. with a chuckle, he led us down. down, into a laby-
rinth of subterranean passages, from which we wondered if we
should ever emerge. Our tapers were like glow-worms in the dark-
ness; now and then we could hear voices and then suddenly would
come upon another party. their faces appearing ghastly in the
weird light. History tells us that these Christian, underground
burial places were ﬁrst known to exist in the 2nd century, and that
the custom of thus disposing of the dead was abandoned in the
5th century. The walls of the passages were hollowed out to form
shelves. where the bodies were laid in rows. arranged like berths
in a ship. \Vben all the shelves in a passage were ﬁlled, it was
excavated to twice its original depth, and another row of tombs
was placed below the ﬁrst. and so on. until there were several
tiers. These grewsome galleries were crossed by others and con-
nected by steps cut in the rock. Vast areas were thus undermined.
The lowest estimate of the length of the passages in the forty
catacombs is 35o miles.

\Ve visited three tiers, as well as the chapels frequented by
the persecuted Christians, where, with their dead beside them.
they held the religious services which they dared not conduct above
ground. In the wall beside some of the tombs. glass vials are
stuck in the cement; these, the monk informed us. once held blood.
showing that the occupant had died a martyr's death. \Ve all
know that the old Roman laws compelled the restoration of bodies,
not devoured by wild beasts, or burned, to the friends of the de-
parted; thus the remains of our Saviour were given up by Pilate
to Joseph of Arimathzea. Many of the chapels of the wealthier
class show traces of frescoes, marble pillars and cornices. As we
went along, the guide explained the symbols carved on the tombs:
for instance: the ﬁsh symbolizes Christ; the palm branch, eternal
life; the dove. immortality. Roman lamps. half buried in the
mortar, were formerly used for lighting the galleries.

