368 THE RH/JVE. COLOGJVE, ATV!) Al.»\'—LA—C/IAPELLE

As we neared Cologne, we were struck with the beauty of its
site, and with the grandeur of the Cathedral, which is generally
considered to illustrate the principles of Gothic architecture better
than any other. \V e had thought that we could admire no Gothic
structure as much as the Duomo in Milan, but, when I left Cologne,
my opinion wavered. Though lacking the many statues which so
add to the effect of the Italian cathedral, the ﬂying buttresses of
the one in Cologne are things of beauty. There is not sufﬁcient
space to enable one fully to appreciate the proportions of the lat-
ter, for. instead of being on an open square, it is hemmed in on all
sides by buildings, and one has a frantic desire to tear down a dozen
blocks and clear the way for its majestic presence.

Our special letter of introduction gave us a privilege in Cologne
which was most enjoyable, that of inspecting the large, chocolate
manufactory of Stollwerck, whose “nickel-in-the-slot ” machines are
seen everywhere in America. \Ve were provided with a special
escort, and the tour of the extensive buildings occupied more than
two hours. The process of grinding the chocolate in the huge mills
was very interesting, as well as the mixing of the candy, the fin-
ishing and boxing. Everything which is used is made in these
works. The wood for the boxes is cut in a private sawmill; the
nickel machines are made here, and printing presses in the estab-
lishment supply labels and posters. In the bakeries, biscuits are
turned out by thousands, and, there, we tasted several varieties of
cakes covered with chocolate. The many hundred employees are
provided with a good library, dining-hall. bath-rooms and dressing-
rooms.

Most tourists pass by Aix-la-Chapelle, but we felt that such
a historic spot should not be neglected. The warm sulphur springs
at Aix are visited annually by thousands of invalids.

The Town Hall, begun in 1353, is the chief point of interest.
\Vithin its walls were. doubtless, signed three famous treaties;
namely, the peace compact between Louis XIV. and Spain, in 1668;
that of Aix-la-Chapelle, terminating the Austrian \Var of Succes-
sion in 1748, and the treaty of 1818, when the German armies
were recalled from France. In the Kaisersaal, ﬁfty-ﬁve yards long
by twenty yards wide, thirty-seven German emperors have been

 

