A’0.l//:‘ 2.,5

own senators. which is saying considerable. Down in front of the
rostrum is a wide railing, before which each member passes to vote,
dropping a white or black ball into a hollow pillar with curved open
top. President Villa opened the session by ringing a silver bell;
then the clerk called the roll, which took just three-quarters of an
hour; in the meantime, a vote was taken on the question before
the house concerning the appropriation of more money for the war
in Abyssinia. \Ve had the pleasure of seeing the Marquis di Ru-
dini, Prime Minister, and several other notabilities.

Probably no'picture is better known in America through copies
than the “Aurora, " by Guido Reni, a fresco on the ceiling of a casino
connected with the Rospigliosi palace. The room, when we entered.
was ﬁlled with the easels of artists who were copying this popular
subject. But no one has ever done justice to the lithe forms of the
maidens representing the Hours, who circle about the ﬂying chariot
of the Sun god; nor, to the graceful, sweeping draperies of Aurora.
as she ﬂoats on clouds in advance of the pursuing Apollo, whose
golden hair seems the sun itself, so refulgent is it with color.

\Ve were invited to ﬁve o'clock tea at the Villino Aurora this
afternoon, and, on our way, called at the studio of the American
sculptor, Franklin Simmonds, who, for many years, has lived in
Rome. Although past middle life. he is as active as ever and is
now modelling an equestrian statue of General Logan. The studio
was ﬁlled with examples of his skill, and we went away, not only
charmed by the cordiality of the man, but enthusiastic over his
creations. Penelope,* a beautiful female ﬁgure in a sitting posture,
with a look of waiting in her eyes. is simply perfect in delicacy
of ﬁnish.

\Ve sipped our tea under the branches of a mammoth ilex tree,
in the midst of rose bushes heavy with bloom, from palest pink to
deepest red. Mrs. MacNeil, in her Empire gown, with a yellow
rose tucked in her brown hair, looked bewitching as she sat behind
the dainty blue and gold cups.

For the past half hour, I have been leaning out of my window
in true Italian fashion, listening to a street band. A couple of

 

* \Vife of Ulysses.

