190.115 167

the fork. He then wound on the fork enough of the macaroni for
a mouthful, and, cutting off the, hanging coils with the sharp edge
of the spoon, conveyed the portion to his mouth.

T 0 return to the Vatican,—it would be folly to attempt to
describe its galleries, which, besides pictures and statuary, contain
vases. sarcophagi, candelabra and priceless mosaics. One might
spend days, merely passing through the rooms without examining
the treasures singly. Nevertheless, I cannot resist mentioning some
of our favorites. Although many consider the “Transﬁguration"
by Raphael the greatest painting in the world, I was disappointed
in it, and, personally. find much more to admire in the “Doubting
Thomas" by Guercino.

One gallery is hung with 16th century tapestries made in
Brussels, after designs by Raphael. They make one forget all
other tapestries, so skillfully are the threads of wool, silk and gold
woven into faces, ﬁgures and draperies, where the minutest details
are carefully brought out. They were intended to cover the lower
part of the walls in the Sistine Chapel. but were stolen during
the sacking of Rome in 1527. Later, they were restored to the
Vatican. The one called “Feed my Lambs ” is especially fine as
regards the treatment of the drapery. In passing through some of
the galleries, to reach the library, I noticed the ﬁgure of a satyr,
in green basalt, a rare, beautiful stone with a polish like that of
majolica.

The library, contained in twenty-ﬁve rooms, not including the
Great Hall, boasts 26,000 M88. in different languages, besides
50,000 printed books. The librarian is a cardinal, who is assisted
by an under librarian and custodians. No one is permitted to
enter the rooms unaccompanied and. as visitors are taken through
them as rapidly as possible, there is little time to examine any-
thing. We would advise tourists to study their French with a
strong Italian accent, if they expect to understand the guides, who,
moreover, fire their sentences as if from a cannon. we saw an
old book delightfully illustrated in water colors by Raphael; pre-
sumably, a Natural History.

The Great Hall is gorgeous with gilding and modern frescoes
portraying scenes in the lives of the popes. Upon heavily carved

