146 FR 0.1! OZ. HIP/A T0 ROzl/E

The Herzeum, erected to Hera, is next in importance, and the
oldest known temple in Greece. The base that probably upheld
the statues of the goddess and her consort Zeus still remains in
the cella; also that of the famous Hermes.

While exploring the ruins, we met an aristocratic-looking lady,
accompanied by a stately young woman, who, like ourselves, was
hunting for the lead pipe used to carry off rain water from a man-
sion built and used by Nero. At last, we found it in almost perfect
condition.

When CEnomaus, king of Pisa.* desired to marry off his
daughter Hippodamia, he amused himself by challenging her suitors
to a chariot race, putting to death all those whom he succeeded
in vanquishing. Pelops, an athletic young warrior, laid him low,
and thus secured the hand of the charming “Hippy,” so, ever
since, Pelops has been the prototype of the victor, and was held in
great reverence at Olympia. Very little remains of the inclosure
sacred to him. The cella of the Bouleuteriony once contained the
statue of Zeus, the protector of oaths, with a thunderbolt in each
hand. Here, those who were about to compete in the Olympian
games took an oath that they had ﬁnished the ten months’ training
prescribed for all who wished to enter the contests, and that they
would also obey all the rules and regulations. Although the origin
of these games goes back to prehistoric times, no regular chron-
icle was kept until 776 B. C. At the beginning of the sacred
month when the games were to take place, heralds were sent all
over Greece to proclaim universal peace during the period of the
festival, which lasted for ﬁve days. During this time, the priests
made solemn sacriﬁces to the gods. These were accompanied by
athletic contests of all descriptions. The prizes awarded were
simply branches from the sacred olive tree. It was inspiring to
stand, upon the historic ground where fully 1500 years ago the last
Olympian festival was held, and gratifying to know that we have
witnessed the revival of the ancient games at Athens. i

Only a small portion of the Stadium at Olympia has been
excavated. The seats were cut in the hillsides and the course was

 

* City in the Peloponnesus.

T Courthouse. '

