118 14711511?

hotel, an open-air theater and a ﬁne pier. The bathing and boat-
ing in summer are excellent.

There were many interesting sights on the beach, including
peep-shows, and stands where [ouéozimz' and a variety of little
cakes were sold. Men walked about, each with a tripod on a pole
hung with colored beads and return-balls made of leather. or with
a long stick strung with tempting crullers fresh from the bake-
shop. Mountaineers with their wives and babies had come down
for the day. The costume of the men consisted of a short ac-
cordion-pleated skirt of white cloth, worn over tights, long leggings
of coarse cloth, cut out under the knee, to allow free movement
of the limbs, a short sleeveless jacket of some colored stuff, a
leather pouch and belt for the heavy-handled pistol and knife,
and a close red cap with a long blue tassel. The women were
skirts and coats of coarse white homespun, braided in black, and
yellow handkerchiefs tied over their heads in the most ungrace-
ful fashion. In striking contrast were some rich peasant women
from Megara. One had a white satin skirt, yellow bodice and a
necklace composed of sequins reaching from her throat to the hem
of her gown. Our guide estimated the cost of the costume to be
$600, which he said represented the fortune of her family.

Rows of seats, in the usual grand-stand fashion, were on
either side of the long pier, and at the end, the royal box. But,
alas! though the Crown Prince and his suite bustled about and looked
important, and the boats set their sails and cruised up and down
the course, the sea grew higher every moment. By eleven o'clock
the wind was blowing a perfect gale; the committees were forced
to call the regatta off. to “fold up their tents, like the Arabs and
silently steal away," with disgust plainly written upon each home-
turned face.

Having taken our guide for the day, we concluded that it was
best to make the most of his valuable services, so we repaired to the
Acropolis, a crystalline limestone plateau 200 ft. in height, and, in
spite of the fierce wind, we. enjoyed intensely our ﬁrst afternoon
around and upon that historic ground.

After looking at the ruins of the Theater of Dionysus, at the
base of the Acropolis, where the masterpieces of zEschylus, Soph-

