86 A24 PLES A JV D T/{E ill E D/ T E REA 3‘.er .4 EV

he would slyly glance in our direction, but if he caught us looking
at him, immediately his large black eyes would stare over our
heads as if oblivious of our existence. This specimen of the “gilded
youth" of Naples may have been a prince, for all we know, as they
are all military men.

After dinner we attended the opera of Lariat dz' Lammcrmoor,
at the Train) San Car/0, where many of the Italian operas were
performed for the ﬁrst time. It is said to have the largest seating
capacity of any theater in Europe. though La Sc‘ala* at Milan
boasts a stage of greater dimensions. The San Carlo was founded
by Charles III. in 1737. There are six tiers of boxes, thirty-
two boxes in each tier, running around three sides of the
interior. The seats we occupied cost seventy cents in our money.
and we paid two cents for the program, for which a separate
charge is always made. There are no galleries. The orchestra,
of seventy pieces, was exceedingly good and the ballet which fol-
lowed the opera, amusing. There were about two hundred in the
cast of the ballet. They tried to represent the development of
the American woman, bloomers and all. and. of course, Greatly
exaggerated it.

On Easter Sunday we attended service at “the church of San
Francesco dz' Paola. It has an immense dome, which is supported
by thirty Corinthian columns of marble. The high altar, inlaid
with jasper and lapis lazuli, is ﬂanked by two pillars supporting
candelabra. The pillars are of Egyptian breccia, a very rare sub-
stance, composed of angular fragments of minerals cemented
together, thus presenting a variety of colors. All the people sat
in rush-bottomed chairs placed directly under the dome. The
responses of the male choir to the chanting of the priests were
ﬁne, but' they were accompanied by a wheezy old organ that
threatened to bolt at every pressure of the pedal.

The archbishop, who was very imposing in his magniﬁcent
white silk robes and miter, celebrated the mass. Once, he walked
with a procession of priests around the church, sprinkling holy water

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

* Named after Beatrice Scala who founded the church which formerly occu-
pied the site.

