126 ATHENS

and Athens boasts excellent schools. This thirst for knowledge
often induces young men to study all day. and then work half the
night to earn enough to support themselves. Many peasants in
the mountainous districts devote all their savings to the further-
ance of public education. The Greeks are singularly loyal. and.
even after having settled in foreign countries, make bequests to
promote building or educational schemes in their native land.

A striking instance is the recent effort to restore the ancient
Stadium. the oblong amphitheater where the Panathenzean contests
once took place, which was destroyed by the Turks. It is situated
in the hollow of a hill and the tiers of seats accommodate 60,000
persons. Its partial restoration was accomplished through the gen-
erosity of M. Averoff, a wealthy Greek residing in Alexandria. It
is rumored that before many years he will complete the interior,
making every seat of Pentelic marble, as in the past. So far, only
the ﬁrst four rows have been thus restored. Stadium is the Greek
word for mile. and the race course within the enclosure is 582
ft. long.

The sight of the Stadium on April 15th, when the victors in
the recent Olympian games were crowned, was alone worth the trip
to Greece. Every one of the seats was taken that morning, and
many youthful citizens were hanging over the rear wall. Three
large bands were stationed at different parts of the arena, the one
from Cephalonia being at the main entrance. \Vhen the royal
carriages drew up before the gates, the multitudes rose to their feet
. and cheered heartily. The royal family consisting of the King. the
Princesses Sophie and Marie, the Princes Constantine, George and
two younger brothers, walked the entire length of the interior. fol-
lowed by the royal guests and the members of the court. The
King has a ﬁne‘face and martial bearing. His generosity and
uniform courtesy have won him many new admirers among the
foreigners now in Athens. Princess Sophie, wife of the Crown
Prince Constantine, represented the Queen at the ceremonies of the
day. as the latter was kept away by a slight illness. She was
gowned in a dark material and wore a small dress bonnet and a
short velvet cape: she carried a bouquet tied with the Greek colors.

\Vhen the King received the victors, the scene was inspiring.

