I34 ATHEZVS

One evening, we went to the Grand Theater where Sophocles’
tragedy of Antigone was ﬁnely presented by a company made up
of members of the faculties of the University and the Conservatory
of Music. This was their third performance since the opening of
the games. There has been no previous attempt to present the
classic drama at Athens since it was given in ancient times on the
stage of the Theater of Dionysus, at the foot of the Acropolis.
No time, labor or money was spared to make this play a success.
The ancient customs, dress and manners were faithfully repro-
duced. People from many countries Occupied the boxes and chairs,
following the action of the play with marked attention. The works
of Sophocles have always been models for students of dramatic
art. As a poet, Sophocles is universally admitted to have brought
the drama to its highest perfection. -

We enjoy wandering around alone in the ancient quarters of
the city. On [Eolus Street one can see tailors, t‘inkers and shoe-
makers out in front of their shops, as busy as bees. In the same
section is the quaint old church constructed out of the fragments
of ancient buildings, by the Empress Irene, in 775 A. D. Beside
the church, there is a slab of gray marble about seven feet long,
bearing a Greek inscription:——“This is the stone from Cana of
Galilee, where Jesus Christ our Lord turned the water into wine. "
This slab was discovered among the ruins at Elatea, and is thought
to have actually been brought from Cana. It was used as the altar
at the marriage of the present Crown Prince with the Princess
Sophie of Prussia, in 1889.

About ﬁve o’clock on Thursday, we loaded a carriage with our
bags and started for No. — Scufa Street, where our Greek guide
had secured a parlor and bedroom for us in a private house. We
had hoped to have the comforts enjoyed at Granada, but after a
two days’ trial, we were obliged to change again. The walk up to
the house, which was situated on a hill, was too fatiguing after we
had been tramping about all day. The rooms were so stuffed with
furniture, vases, paper ﬂowers, and even the actual toilet articles
and clothes of the family, that the air was unwholesome. Still, we
might have been able to endure all that, if it had not been for a
shrine in our bedroom, consisting of a large glass case ﬁlled with

