V/EJZVA .437) BUDAPEST 319

mously rich and had spared neither pains nor money in their
endeavors to make the details complete. There were eighty-seven
companies, each led by the nobles who ruled over the province.
Those of the highest rank carried the ancient battle ﬂags. The
prevailing costume consisted of tight trousers. coat of light-colored,
embroidered satin, buttoned to the throat, and high-topped boots.
A velvet coat, bordered with costly furs, hung from the shoulders
like a mantle, the same fur banding the high turban. The belt,
coat buttons, clasps, aigrette on the turban, and the sword hilt were
richly jewelled. Other companies wore complete suits of mail;
some, steel, others, gold, with mantle and saddlecloth of leopard
skin. All the horses were superbly caparisoned.

Following the horsemen, came splendid coaches containing
dignitaries of the church and state. The coachmen and the foot-
men, who stood behind. in blue and silver liveries with cocked hats,
reminded us of the grand personages of fairy tales.

Next, came thirty-ﬁve noblemen ablaze with orders, and cos-
tumed even more elegantly, as a guard of honor to the occupants
of twin coaches of enamelled redwood, with plate glass panels and
gold trimmings. They were drawn by snow-white horses with gold
harness, and resplendent outriders accompanied them. In the ﬁrst
coach was the Prime Minister; in the second, upon a dai’s, the
Crown of Hungary. How the people shouted when they beheld it!
remembering that, for a thousand years, the clumsy, jewelled circlet
with its bent cross had pressed the brows of all their warrior kings.

The stranger looks with admiration at this ancient, yet modern,
metropolis. In spite of the fact that the streets bear unpronounce-
able Magyar names, we are able to ﬁnd our way about, and though
the inhabitants speak a language strange to our ears, we ﬁnd them
courteous, eminently progressive, and fashionably dressed. An un-
derground railway connects the most important street with the
Exposition grounds, in the suburbs; its attractive stations are walled
with cream-colored tiles. Broad, well-kept boulevards. electric cars
and double-decked omnibuses, as well as the absence of beggars,
render the city unusually attractive.

The Exposition is unique. In the center of the grounds. sur-
rounded by a broad lagoon where steam launches ply, is a group

