BR USS/{LS .4.-\'D ”:4 715131; 00 . 391

obtains a splendid view of the lower town, which is intersected by
small canals and branches of the Senne river. The facade of the
HOtel de Ville,* in the lower town, is literally covered with statues.
The tower and turrets were once covered with plates of gold.

Directly opposite is a remarkable specimen of semi-Gothic
architecture, the Maison du Roi. It was in this building that the
Counts Egmont and Hoorn passed the night of June 4th, 1568,
following the sham trial accorded them by the infamous Duke of
Alva, and previous to their execution.

No industry so appeals to the feminine taste as that of lace-
making, for which Brussels is especially noted. There are two kinds
of “real lace;" “needle point,” made with simple thread and needle,
and consequently, the most valuable, and “pillow lace, ” made on a
cushion by means of pins and bobbins. The latter was invented
in Flanders. These two styles date from the beginning of the
‘ 16th century, though lace in the shape of darned net, twisted loops
and embroidery was known long before that period. The early
patterns in “needle point," doubtless, originated in Greece, were
transported to Venice, and thence to Flanders. \Ve spent an hour
watching the women at work in one of the lace factories. They
were, without exception, the most pathetic-looking human beings
I ever saw. Their faces were colorless, and their eyes dim and
weak from the constant strain. Probably no toilers are so poorly
paid or so hard-worked as these poor creatures. One, who was
making a very costly piece of “needle point," looked more like a
galvanized mummy than a woman.

In doing this work, the pattern is ﬁrst sketched on paper,
attached to a piece of linen. Threads are then laid upon the lines
of the design and caught through to the linen by stitches, thus
forming a skeleton design of thread. The interstices are then ﬁlled
in with a needle and thread, and, when the pattern is entirely
ﬁnished, the stitches, which caught the skeleton design to the linen,
are cut, and the lace, freed from its support. \Vith “pillow lace, "
the pattern drawn on the paper is pierced with minute holes by
an expert, who marks the places where the principal pins are to

 

* Town Hall.

