go AVA PLES AEVD THE xii/EDITERRA A'lfA 1V

was for sale. but only those of the sterner sex indulged. Leaving the
carriage at the Meteorological Observatory, situated 2,218 ft. above
the level of the sea, we mounted mules and found guides in readi-
ness to conduct us across the new lava to the wire-rope railway,
which ascends nearly to the summit of the crater.

The beast that was selected to bear your humble servant had
an obstinate disposition and ears that must have been a quarter of
a yard l-ong. He persisted in wandering from the straight and
narrow path laid out by the company, and once, came so near
slipping into a pit of red-hot lava that I gave a squeal, when my
guide immediately proceeded to put his arms around me, fearing
I was about to faint. Therefore, I concluded, that of two evils I
would choose the lesser and keep quiet in the future. How I did
envy Mrs. M., who cantered along as easily as if riding in a park,
now and then casting a merry glance over her shoulder to see how
I was getting along. ’

After an appetizing dinner at the railway station, we entered
the car which was to draw us up the sheer side of the main crater,
a distance of 900 yds. The upper end of the railway is 1,300 ft.
higher than the lower.

As we rose higher and higher, the peaks below us ﬂattened
out, the clouds drew nearer, and Naples became a mere blotch
of white on the gray of the earth. At the top station were the
mountain guides, with stout leathern straps over their shoulders.
We took hold of the loop at one end and began the climb toward
the crater. The path in some places was so steep that a second
man had to go behind and, placing his palms against our shoulders,
push with all his strength, while we ploughed through the soft
snow mingled with ashes nearly knee deep. Once, we passed
a crevasse, with yawning edges, composed of clear sulphur. Vol-
umes of smoke poured out of it with such intensity that the whole
party took to their heels, and, if we had not held wet handkerchiefs
over our mouths and nostrils, we should have been overcome by
the fumes.

At last, the very edge was reached and, kneeling there, we
looked over and down, down, down, into the seemingly bottomless
pit. Every now and then an explosion would take place and new

