184 ROJIE

\Ve saw two famous pictures by Titian, one of the greatest
painters of the 15th century. He was born at Cadore, Italy, and
began to paint when a mere child, using, at ﬁrst, the juices ex—
tracted from ﬂowers. During the ninetymine years of his life he
is said to have painted more than seven hundred pictures, and,
from his knowledge of pigments, he was styled the “master of
color." The coloring of the two paintings in the Borghese collec-
tion is superb: only a man born with a rainbow in his soul could
have created them.

An attractive study is the head of a woman. done in silver
point by Leonardo da Vinci.* Silver point is a very old and
unique manner of drawing on a piece of prepared gray paper with
a sharp-pointed instrument of silver. A gentle pressure of the silver
point makes a light line, and a heavier stroke, a dark one. The
effect produced is peculiarly delicate.

From the Villa Borghese it is but a short drive to the Villa
Medici, formerly owned by the powerful Medici family of Florence.
Since 1801 it has been occupied by the French Academy of Art.
The “Prix de Rome," which is periodically offered by France,
enables the winner to study four years in this academy. Many
architects, sculptors and painters are at work in the studios scat-
tered about the grounds. Some of them are mere inclosures formed
by trees and hedges; here, the artist can study the human form in
bright sunlight.‘ As the student has so short a time in which to
show his mother country what he can do, he is not apt to waste
it. The exhibition now open at the villa shows the work of this
year, and some of the productions are certainly very clever.

One painter exhibits a large canvas entitled “Magdalen sees
Christ for the ﬁrst time." The principal ﬁgure, draped in white,
with upturned face all aglow, stands on the landing of steps-leading
, up to a gloomy stone house of many stories. It is so close to its
neighbors as to leave only a narrow strip of sky, about twelve
inches long, at the very top of the big picture; but it is like real
sky, so natural that it makes one wonder if there is not a slit in the
canvas. Another, the “Marriage of Flora," is in the impressionist

 

.._._ *__ —_. _— __

 

* Italian painter, 1452-1519.

