378 ' Tl/E HAGUE, 1411!.STERDAJI, AA'D DELFT

Of course, we admired Paul Potter's Bull, a canvas that the
French captured and carried off to the Louvre. \Vhile there, it
ranked as the fourth picture in the world, in importance; after-
wards, it was restored to the Dutch Government. I am afraid,
however, that I lingered longest in front of the cheerful, heme
picture called the “Young Housewife," painted by my Dutch
favorite, Gerard Dou. I cannot enjoy all the works of Dutch
masters, because many of them are so hopelessly ugly. In a rep-
resentation of the Madonna, one expects to see a sweet. intelli-
gent face and a graceful form, not a pear-shaped wooden mask
without expression, coupled with a contorted body and lanky limbs.
To be sure, such pictures were the best that the artists could pro-
duce in their times; in fact, it was "their way.” but, then, it is some
people’s “way” to be ridiculous. Nevertheless, they need not be
admired for it.

From the picture gallery, we took a tram to Laan van Meer-
dervoort, a ﬁne avenue upon which is the home of Mesdag. the
greatest of Dutch marine painters. His pictures of the North
Sea beach at Scheveningen are well known in America. \Ve rang
the bell at the entrance of the small brick lodge, which is con-
nected by a covered passage with the mansion. The maid, who
answered the bell, was attired in a neat gown and kerchief. and
wore the oddest Dutch headdress that we haVe yet seen. \Vings
of lace spread out from a close—ﬁtting cap, and elaborate gold or-
naments. joined by a band incircling the head, emerged from
under the muslin border above the temples. Having heard that
the artist was always gracious to Americans interested in art, I sent
up my card with the name of our Art Club in one corner. In a few
moments, the maid returned and we were ushered through corri-
dors, hung with costly tapestries and furnished with cabinets con-
taining rare specimens of porcelain, into the Studio. The panels
of the doors were covered with sketches; one, of a dear old lady,
whose face was framed in a quaint cap; evidently, a family por-
trait. But we had little time to look about us, for, from behind a
canvas that blocked one end of the room, there appeared a ﬁgure
with hand outstretched in welcome, and a hearty voice greeted us.

Mynheer Mesdag is a large and well formed man of about

