LOND ON 481

and contains more than that number of tame deer The roads are
lined with enormous horse-chestnut trees, planted, it is said, by
\Villiam III. Each season when they are in blossom, thousands
of city folk come to witness the sight.

Bowling across “Twickenham Town,” we passed the ﬁne resi-
dence of Mr. Labouchére, M. P., occupying the site of the poet
Pope's old home, on the banks of the Thames. Our hearts gave a
leap ”as we spied some little boats, and recalled the refrain of
“ Twickenham Ferry. "

Alighting in front of Talbot's at Richmond, we immediately
set out for Billet's to secure some of the celebrated “Maids of
Honor,” a dainty cheese cake, the recipe for which was furnished
by one of the maids of Queen Elizabeth. These cakes are made
by beating milk curds with sugar, eggs and lemon juice; this mixture
is put into puff paste shells and baked.

Kew Gardens, further on, with their many hothouses, are
among the ﬁnest in England. Kew Palace, where George III. and
Queen Charlotte lived many years, is an old brick building with a
quaint chapel near by, containing an organ on which Handel played.

At Kew we embarked on a Thames river boat, and for several
hours enjoyed a quiet sail, passing many interesting places, includ-
ing Putney and Chelsea. The latter is called the “cradle of great
men,” as it was the home of Carlyle, Rossetti, Leigh Hunt, Dean
Swift and other celebrities. The Thames is a beautiful river, fringed
for miles with low willows; the tasteful boathouses and pleasure
craft belonging to noblemen. who have villas near the banks, add
much to its attractions.

A delightful afternoon was spent in the India and Ceylon
Exhibition, where the mosques, theaters, bazaars, bridges, and
artificial lakes are reproductions of those in the places men-
tioned. Afterwards, we had a genuine Indian dinner, sitting under
the cooling breeze of a punka,* the cord being pulled by a coolie
in red and white, while others served the meal. The menu con-
sisted of the following dishes; thick soup powdered with rice, boiled
salmon served with boiled rice and red pepper dressing, chicken

 

 

* A fan suspended from the ceiling.
31

