I 50 FR 0.” 0L YJ’IIPIA T0 ROJIE

On our second trip to the ruins, the next morning, we saw
women washing linen by the river Cladaus, so we went out of our
way to call upon them. They seemed delighted, and offered us
some wine out of a bottle that was not very inviting. They beat
their linen with a broad paddle. on 'a ﬂat stone. The garment is
ﬁrst soaped, and then hot water is poured over it from a tin dish.
A gypsy kettle, swung above some fagots, supplied the water.
About eleven o'clock, we climbed a short distance up Cronius Hill
and sat down under a tree. Below, on our right, were the ruins
of the treasure-houses; on our left, the country road leading to
Pyrgos. Settling ourselves in a comfortable position, we took out
our notebooks and prepared to write, but the people toiling up the
hill were so interesting that we gave up our work and passed an
hour, all too short, in making several acquaintances. A little girl
presented my companion with a lovely nosegay, and when she re-
turned the compliment with some pieces of Ion/60217222, the child did
not know what to do with them. Mrs. M. ate a piece, as an illus-
tration, and then put one to the girl's mouth, which at last opened
to receive it. A look of supreme satisfaction came into her large
brown eyes as the sweet morsel touched her tongue; doubtless, she
had never tasted candy before. Later, two young peasant women
stopped and spoke to us, and how we wished we could understand
them. The younger had a bright-colored woolen bag over her
shoulder. Immediately, I coveted that bag. for I knew it was
homespun and dyed, and I had long been wanting a specimen of
Greek weaving. SoI opened my purse and took out one coin
after another, gently pulling on the bag all the time; at last she
understood me, and when a number of drachmés lay on her palm,
she emptied the contents of the bag—raw potatoes. large green
beans, a bottle of water and an old rusty knife—into her uplifted
dress skirt, and gave it to me. Her companion offered me one of
the beans, which the peasants consider a dainty and eat as we do
celery. The whole transaction seemed a joke to the two women
and we could hear their merry laughter after they had passed out
of sight. Of course, the girl made a sharp bargain, but three times
the amount paid would not buy a Greek bag in America. and so
I am content. just then a queer procession appeared, evidently a

