I72 £01115

priest sworn to celibacy, was, with his two sons, condemned by
Apollo to be strangled by serpents, near the altar that he had
desecrated by a secret marriage. In his own death agony the
father seems to have forgotten the peril of his children, who cry in
vain for succor, their slender bodies encircled by the coils of the
reptiles whose poisoned fangs are fastened in their quivering ﬂesh.
The sufferings of all three are represented with terrible realism.
Casts of these marbles are to be found in almost every art museum
in America.

The Vatican is connected by an underground passage with the
Castle of St. Angelo, built as a family mausoleum, in 136 A. D.,
by Hadrian. The Bridge of St. Angelo spans the yellow waters
of the Tiber, joining the Borgo, as the Vatican quarter is called, with
the main part of the city. This mausoleum, a cylinder of travertine
eighty yards in diameter, was once incrusted with marble. For
several centuries it was used as a fortress; a portion of it now
serves as a prison, and it is necessary to obtain a permit from the
military commander, in order to visit it. Our guide led us through
narrow, damp corridors, up staircases and,down, until we had not
the remotest idea whether we were on a level with the ground or
far above it, as the light is admitted only through narrow slits
high up in the walls. The vault where the Roman emperors
were interred is shown, but the sarcophagi and urns have long
since disappeared. Several large rooms were ﬁtted up, in the past,
for the popes, who, availing themselves of the secret passage from
the Vatican, took refuge in the castle,4when necessary. \Ve entered
the damp, loathsome cell where the beautiful, high-born, but ill—
fated, Beatrice Cenci is said to have been incarcerated; the torture
chamber; and. lastly, the place where the old drawbridge used to
swing out across the moat. The torture chamber is a large, square
room without windows. From the four walls, about twelve feet
from the-ﬂoor, protrude heavy iron bars, each with a bunch of tow
on the end. Similar bunches soaked in oil and ignited furnished
the only light. The victims were bound, and strung up by a cord
to the bars, while the torturers burned their feet with red-hot irons.
Here, Beatrice confessed that she had been an accomplice in the
murder of the unnatural father who blighted her life.

