192 ROJIIZ

ments of wood be true or false, so long as the souls of the masses
are lifted above the dead level of everyday life and they are made
to feel something of the Divine Spirit within? The ceremony was
impressive. The procession of priests headed by the bishop left
the high altar, ﬁled through a side door. and a few moments later
appeared in the gallery half way up to the roof. As each relic,
inclosed in a case of glass and gold, was handed to the bishop, he
reverently kissed it and passed it to the priest next in rank, when
it was again saluted; the choir, meanwhile, chanting its glory.

A group of peasants from the Campagna were a picture as
they knelt together. The oldest, a man probably seventy years
of age, wore a sleeveless coat of white lambskin over his home-
spun suit; a younger man. presumably his son, with a ﬁne Italian
countenance reminding me of the portraits of Garibaldi, held a
dear little boy about six years of age, by the hand. The little
fellow was clothed in velveteen trousers and round jacket, his little
shirt open at the throat and a soft Alpine hat in his fat ﬁngers.
He had the round eyes and curly dark hair often seen in the chil-
dren playing about the Piazza di Spagna, while waiting for engage-
ments to pose as models for artists. The mother, lugging a sleeping
baby, had found, apparently, neither time nor inclination to deck
herself in holiday garb; even the handkerchief tied under her chin
was old and faded.

\Vould you like to know what we had for our Sunday dinner?
Well, there was a genuine Italian dish called “Cervello d'oro,"*
which is calves' brains made up in little yellow balls and fried in
oil; this, with chops, potatoes, peas, rolls and a fruit salad, cost
just forty cents apiece in our money. Not had, was it? The water
seems to be healthful, though it tastes a little of lime, and we drink
it in preference to the native wines, which are generally used.

The church of St. John Lateran, the principal one in Rome
after the time of Constantine the Great, and before the prominence
of St. Peter's, belongs. with the Vatican, to the Pope. A most
enchanting spot is the cloister of the old Benedictine monastery
connected with the church. The court is filled with beautiful ﬂow-

 

 

* Brains of gold.

