771/? R] I VERA A .FVD .lf/L .4 A" 2 41

young girl, portrayed as rising from her couch, in answer to the
summons of an angel.

In going from Genoa to Milan, one crosses the plain of Lom-
bardy. The principal rivers watering its rich farms are the Po
and the Ticino, which are diverted into canals, bordered by rows
of trees set closely together, their roots forming a bed for the
water. This part of the country has been irrigated since the 12th
century, and sometimes yields twelve crops in one year. The
system was improved by Leonardo da Vinci, who was not only a
great artist, but a practical engineer as well.

At the present writing, we are comfortably housed at the
Hetel Métropole on the Piazza del Duomo,* a square so spacious
that one can see all sides of the great cathedral to good advantage.
Its countless glittering spires and pinnacles ﬁnished by statues
stand out against the sky, clear cut as cameos. This cathedral,
next in size to St. Peters and the cathedral of Seville, is in the
Gothic style with Romanesque modiﬁcations. Begun in 1386, it
was not completed until after Napoleon I. set artisans to work
upon the facade. One of his weaknesses cropped out when he
added his own statue, in antique costume, to the multitude already
on the edifice. The stained glass windows are the largest known
and are a blaze of color, at midday. In the costly chapel under-
neath the high altar, is the tomb of San Carlo Borromeo, a famous
archbishop of Milan. For a fee, the sacristan raises the outer
casket of silver, and discloses the coffin of rock crystal, through
which the body can be seen. It is clothed in rich vestments and
covered with jewels; on the breast is a superb cross of emeralds
given by Maria Theresa of Austria.

Opposite the cathedral stands the royal palace. There, Na-
poleon 1., Victor Emanuel and Humbert, have lived. The Grand
Salon, where it is said that Napoleon held several fetes, is like a
gallery of statuary. The effect of 4,000 candles set. in Venetian
glass chandeliers, when ‘reﬂected in a polished ﬂoor, is brilliant
indeed. There are marble busts of Napoleon and his two wives
in several of the rooms.

 

 

* Cathedral.
16

