50 SE 1-71. L E

winding in and out, and the spires of the twenty-ﬁve churches rising
from the narrow streets of the city, give a picturesqueness to the
panorama, which the surrounding hills, topped by small villages,
enhance. Some of them are walled, as they were in bygone days
when the Moors controlled Spain.

The Giralda is a bell tower dating from the 12th century.
Its architecture is Moorish and of extreme elegance. An inclined
plane, that could be ascended easily by a man on horseback, leads
from the ground ﬂoor of the interior to the top. The belfry is
surrounded by the Latin textz—“Nomen Domini fortissima turris,"*
the whole surmounted by a ﬁgure of Faith, fourteen feet high.

The tower stands at the northeast corner of the cathedral,
which is the largest in Spain. This ediﬁce, begun in 1403,
is in the Spanish pointed Gothic style. Its length is 413 ft.
and its width 298 ft. There are ﬁne bronze doors, and about a
hundred stained glass windows.

In order to view the treasures of the cathedral, one must ob-
tain a permit from the Sacristan and pay a fee of two pesetas;
then the visitor is conducted about the building. The retab/o or
altar—piece, of enormous size, is divided into forty-four compartments,
each of which is carved or painted to represent a subject of Bible
history. The body of St. Ferdinand, which is displayed three times
yearly, lies underneath the high altar, but the heavily embossed gold
and silver cofﬁn is placed in front of it. Through the thick glass
doors at one side of the altar we could see the lead cofﬁns of Pedro
the Cruel and Maria de Padilla, with whom he contracted a mor-
ganatic marriage. ’

The famous picture by Murillo called the “Vision of St. An-
thony" is considered by some critics to be his ﬁnest work. It is
very large and is hung in the Baptistery+ of the cathedral. On

the night of November 4th, 1874, the ﬁgure of St. Anthony, which_

occupies the center of the canvas, was cut out and carried off.
The Spanish Government communicated the fact to its representa—
tives in other countries, who immediately instituted a search. The
picture was discovered in New York where it was offered to a Mr.

 

* The name of the Lord is a strong tower.
’l’ Chapel where the sacrament of baptism is administered.

 

—___"-_"-'|-_4

