2 53 I '15-v/c'/£

From that time on, the Germans unhappiness was marked,
and, in a few days, he was missed from his usual haunts. Dis-
turbed by his absence, our Italian friend went again to his studio
and there discovered him seated despondently before the picture
which he declared he could never ﬁnish; a week later, he was
found dead, and it is believed that he took his own life.

The picture of the “Three Violin Players " hangs at present
in the National Gallery at Berlin and, though still unﬁnished, is
considered a masterpiece.

One morning, with map and guidebook, we proceeded to prowl,
as we delight to do, among the back streets and alleys where we can
see the people who are born, live and die in ione place; not the fash-
ionable folk, who ape the Parisians and whose children are educated
abroad. We wandered in and out of the cal/2', narrow streets
connected by bridges over the small canals, stopping to look into
the shop-windows or watching the provision-dealer sell potatoes,
steaming hot from an iron kettle. Florentine butchers often roast
a leg of mutton, or young chickens on a turning spit, in full view
of the passers by, but we did not see it done here, much to our
disappointment. On the way back to the hotel, we bought some
boiled potatoes, and fried them over our alcohol lamp; with fresh
rolls and strawberries, we had a real treat.

The Rialto has been the principal bridge over the Grand
Canal since 1591, when the last marble block was placed in position
upon the span. Ancient Venice was situated on the island, Rivo
alto,* which gave its name to this bridge, on which are shops
patronized by the lower classes. Crossing to the west side of the
canal, we stopped and looked back toward the bank'we had just
left, where, away up near the top of an old building, and almost
obliterated, is a fresco by no other than the master Giorgione/l'

Naturally, we were reminded of Shylock as we found ourselves
in the Jews’ quarter. Near the fruit market is a short granite
column; in the 16th century, the laws of the Republic were pro—
mulgated from its ﬂat top.

 

* High bank.
'l‘ Giorgio Barbarelli (1477-1511), called Giorgione, meaning George the
Great, from his noble ﬁgure.

