I'IEA'A’A AA'D 1)’ (70.4 PEST 32 I

\Ve had an orange ice in the Royal Kiosk where some “swells"

in ﬁne uniform, with clanking swords, were conversing with a number
of ladies, every one of them beautiful and exquisitely gowned.
From there, we walked across the grounds to a cheap Coffee-house
to see the humbler folk. The women wear very full skirts which
are not gored, and, consequently, form a thick ridge just below
the waist line. They walk with a queer little \Vriggle of the hips
which gives them an odd appearance.
. The Hungarians drink quantities of plum ‘brandy, which is put
up in attractive little stone jugs and sold on the grounds. How-
ever, we have not seen an intoxicated or disorderly person since
we came. In another part of the park is situated Os Budavara,
or Budapest at the time of its occupation by the Turks. Here,
are reproductions of the old walls, mosques, and kiosks with
people dressed in the costumes of that period. Pretty waitresses
ﬂit about, attending to the needs of visitors in the cafes. Hun-
garian gypsies with swarthy skins dance the (:am’as* with an
abandon known only to these wild, free children of the mountain
fastnesses.

In front of one of these cafes, where the scarlet capes and
sashes of a group of Servians made a warm dash of color against
the brown walls, we had our ﬁrst taste of gzz/J'rfs. This is a na-
tional dish composed of beef cut in dice, and stewed with vegeta-
bles and paprika, Hungarian red pepper. GROVES is delicious and
so is Ez’s-A’qfrc. To prepare the latter, half ﬁll a small goblet with
coffee icecream; then, pour in as much sweetened, whipped cream
as the glass will hold. \Vhen you eat it, thrust your spoon to the
bottom of the goblet, bring the coffee cream up through the
whipped cream, close your eyes and imagine yourself in Hungary.’

The grand tournament took place. the day following the parade,
in a large ﬁeld adjacent to the Exposition grounds, and near the
Emperor's exhibit of blooded horses. The royal tent, between the
two grand stands, was pitched by means of halberds, as was the
custom in times of war, the edges of the crimson and gold canopy
being cut in battlements. .-\t the left of the entrance, a pole was

* National dance of Hungary.

21

