348 .VL'REJ/BERG .J-\'D THE BLACK FOREST

Though they sprung from the valley below us, their tops towered
far above our heads. As soon as a tree shows signs of decay, it
is cut down and a new one from the nurseries set out in its place.
The branches are trimmed so that balance is preserved and the
trunks are kept straight. From this forest the finest logs for
ship-building are obtained. Growing beside the pines were deli-
cate. waving ferns, bluebells and tall foxgloves. Birds chirped
among the branches. or hopped along in a friendly fashion beside
the carriage. Green lizards, horned beetles, and smaller bugs
of all species crawled over the moss-covered boulders that border
the roadway. \Ve looked in vain for a fat, little elf to pop up
from behind a stone, or a sprite to shake leaves upon us from an
overhanging bough, for no one goes through the Black Forest
without remembering that it is their favorite abiding-place; we
ﬁnally concluded that they were‘all away in distant glades, hatch-
ing up a new prank to play upon the unwary traveller.

Our ﬁrst halt was at the Alte Schloss, or Old Castle of Baden,
the former residence of the Grand Dukes, who, since its destruc-
tion by the French, in 1689, have lived in the town below. This
ruin, a mere pile of stones overrun by vines and mosses, is on a
cliff overlooking the valley of the Rhine; the walls date in part
from the 3rd century.

About an hour's drive brought us to a path leading to the
\Volfsschlucht, a romantic ravine. Leaving the carriage, we walked
down into the glen, and crept to the very edge of some rocks,
which overlook a rushing stream at the bottom. All about us
were tall.pines; their fragrance ﬁlled the air, and whispering
beeches seemed to reveal the secrets of the wood nymphs and the
satyrs. It was here that Undine, the water nymph, playing
on her lyre by the banks of the stream, bewitched the young
forester.

The telltale hands of our watches soon reminded us that
time was ﬂying, so we were forced to return to the carriage and
press onward and upward to that romantic stronghold, the Castle
of Eberstein. It stands on the brink of a precipice, 1,000 ft.
above the Murg. From the parapet of the castle, we could look
down into the valley with its wooded sides, and see the shining

