.260 I-"EA’ICE

Recrossing ‘ the Rialto, we walked down a back street where
the crab-catchers boil and prepare crabs for the market. Over a
charcoal ﬁre built close to the edge of the canal is suspended a
big, black pot into which the live crabs are plunged to boil. When
done, they are ladled out into baskets; then, one by one, scrubbed
with a brush, in the waters of the canal, until they look clean.
\Ve wonder how any one can eat them, knowing where they have
been washed; for there are smells in Venice equal to those of
Cologne, and they nearly all come from the canals, which do not
seem to be entirely wholesome, in spite of the fact that the rise
and fall of the tide is about two feet.

In the doorways of neighboring houses, young women cluster
in groups, stringing beads for the fans and necklaces that are sold
in the bazaars and on the streets. They hold a pan of beads on
their knees. and, tipping it with the left hand, thrust a bunch of
wires, held fan-shaped in the right hand, in rapid succession into
the pan, so that they catch up the bits of glass and are soon full.
These women, who beg of every passing stranger, are of the lowest
class, and their faces are absolutely expressionless.

Tired with our walk, we engaged a gondola and started for a
long row to the island of Murano. As we turned into a narrow
canal, we noticed a gondola ahead containing two. women and three
men. In the center of the boat was a tiny casket covered with a
black pal], a cross in white braid outlined upon it and ﬂowers
heaped'above. Suddenly, there seemed to be some difﬁculty about
the rowing of the boat, and one of the men stripped off the white
gown that he wore, showing a workman's blouse underneath; then,
taking another oar, he assisted the gondolier, and on they went.

As it was our intention to stop at the Campo Santo on our
way to Murano, we followed them. They placed the casket in the
center of the little chapel on this island set apart for the burial of the
dead. Two priests appeared and performed a hasty, and, to us, a
soulless, ceremony. Then the two men in white gowns, evidently
the father and the grandfather of the child, picked up the wooden
bier, and, followed by the women, went out to the cemetery, about
which ran a gallery with rows of compartments. \Ve stayed at a
respectful distance until they had placed the plain pine box in its

