482 L 0-\-'D 0-\'

and rice sprinkled with curry powder, boiled ginger pudding, and
preserved fruits.

This morning found us at the “Old Curiosity Shop " that
Dickens has made so dear to us; it is back of the Law Courts,
on a narrow street, a little building. looking as if about to tip
over with age, and now used as a junk shop.

Taking a cab with a well informed driver, we crossed London
Bridge and made a tour of the section called \Vhitechapel, where
so many dreadful deeds occurred not long ago. The poverty and
degradation of this community of Jew brokers, second-hand dealers,
and roughs is appalling.

\Vomen and children were lounging on the sidewalks and in
the doorways, unkempt, dishevelled, and unclean. It is strange, as
well as pitiful, that, in a city where industry seems to hold full
sway, there should be so many poor people. Nowhere in America
have I seen such abject misery as in London. The people seem
infinitely more wretched than the beggars of Italy and Spain.
There, we saw little evidence of the liquor habit among the poor.
Here, on the contrary, the faces of the majority are bloated and
inflamed by drink. No matter how ragged Southerners are, they
will generally smile when spoken to, and seem to take some com-
fort out of a bare existence, evidently with faith in better times
to come, but these poor creatures seem to have left hope behind.

\Ve ﬁnd upon inquiry that the charities of London are counted
by thousands, and that they are well organized, as are the in-
numerable societies for promoting industry. It is said that, once
a year, on “ Hospital Sunday,” hundreds of charitable women stand
on the street corners to collect alms for the hospitals, while vol-
untary subscriptions to benevolent objects amount to more than
£5,000,000 annually. Too much praise cannot be given to the
men and women of London, who are devoting their time. strength,
and money to the elevation of moral and physical lepers. May
these good Samaritans ever increase in number and their “light so
shine" that the indifferent and the selfish may be inﬂuenced by
their example, and go and do likewise.

 

