HOME WARD 190 UN!) 509

You will be interested to know what good company we have
on board. The Right Honorable Lord Russell and family, of Kil-
lowen, and Sir Frank Lockwood and Lady Lockwood are insconced
in their chairs within a few rods of ours. It is a pleasure to watch
the fine face of Lord Russell light up in conversation. A concert
is, as usual, to be given by the passengers, for the benefit of the
“Seamen’s Charities,” and we are told that both these families
are to take part. Lord Russell, as you know, is one of the most
brilliant judges in England, and we anticipate much pleasure at the
entertainment over which he is to preside.

There are also several members of the Ancient and Honorable
Artillery Company, of Boston, on board. This company of gallant
Americans has been lavishly entertained by the English nobility,
and the whole party are going back to America with the warmest
feelings of friendship for 'their consins across the water.

\Ne have succeeded in carrying out our original plan regard-
ing time, mode of travel and expenses, and looking backward over
our long journey, I marvel at such good fortune. It would be difﬁ-
cult to determine where we have enjoyed ourselves the most, for
everything has been so interesting.

In our wanderings, we have admired the gallantry and courtesy
of the Europeans. We are grateful for their invariable kindness
to two lone women. Nevertheless, we are happy beyond measure
to know that America is our home—America, where, with ability,
honor and true worth, a man or woman of humble origin may reach
the highest position, and, moreover, be received into the best society.
For years, Europe has sent her poor, her ignorant, her helpless to
charitable America, not caring what became of them, so long as
5/16 was rid of the burden. Few educated Europeans really know
anything about America, beyond the fact that she has rich mines,
Indians, title hunting heiresses, and that Americans spend money
lavishly. However, each vessel bound for our shores now carries
a few of the better class, and we may hope to be better under-
stood, before many years have passed.

My companion is standing not far away, straining her eyes in
the direction of the coast. An audacious breeze has caught her
veil and torn it from the little steamer cap that covers her bonny,

