96 FRO." CAP]?! T0 BRIA’D/S/

Before breakfast we strolled into a lemon grove connected with
the hotel. The branches of the trees are twisted like grape vines,
and as they reach the roof of the arbor, upon which they are
trained, they spread out like umbrellas, the yellow fruit dangling
beneath, within reach of the hand. Near by is an old house. On
the doorsteps sat a young girl roasting coffee over a charcoal ﬁre,
shaking the green berries in a sheet-iron cylinder. It is needless
to say that the coffee was badly scorched. Perhaps this method
of preparing it accounts for the disagreeable taste of Italian coffee,
which we are unable to drink.

The town of Capri centers in a small pz'azsa, surrounded by
the public buildings, church, shops and artists' studios. \Ve en-
joyed a visit to one of the latter, that of Carlo di Giuseppe, a
native of the island, and one of its best artists. He has some
charming pictures of the coast, as well as portraits of American
girls. His work shows great talent. My companion secured a view
of the Marina Grande* and a study of a Venetian girl, which are
to be forwarded to London to await our arrival.

On the drive up to Anacapri, we saw a hollow in the cliff
about ﬁfteen feet above our heads. It was a shrine, containing a
life-size image of the Virgin, before which was suspended a lantern.
Beside the ﬁgure hung a wooden leg. We learned afterward that
it was an offering from a person who had been injured near the
spot. It seemed such a long, hard climb to the ruins of the Castle
of Barbarossa, that we concluded to take our drivers advice and
view its beauties from the outside. It was named after the Turkish
corsair who destroyed it, a red-bearded (/mrlm 7055a) pirate of the
I 5th century. The most beautiful wild flowers cover the mountains,
of which there are nearly eight hundred species.

Of course every one who goes to this “botanists’ paradise ” visits
the Blue Grotto, the most wonderful of the numerous caverns on
the coast. The best light can be obtained about noon. Accord—
ingly, before that time, we set out in a small boat rowed by two
stalwart islanders, and in three-quarters of an hour had reached
the entrance. As the waves recede from the rocks one can see

 

 

 

——_
__-

* Main landing or quay.

 

