 

‘ 492 CASTLE? AND COLLEGES

its stately towers and splendid quadrangles, with its walks beside
the Cherwell, where Addison loved to roam. Fragrant shrubs are
reflected in its still waters and great trees spread their roots be-
neath its bed. The buildings cover nearly eleven acres of ground.
Pretty little fawns run beside their soft-eyed mothers in the deer
park, or bound timidly away, when a stranger approaches the elms
under which they are browsing.

In one of the principal squares of the town is the Martyrs'
Memorial, commemorating the burning of three English advocates
of the Reformation, the Bishops Ridley and Latimer, and Cranmer,
Archbishop of Canterbury. For Cranmer, who was instrumental in
divorcing Henry VIII. from several of his wives, we cannot feel .as
much sympathy as for the brave and aged Latimer, who, though
degraded by being stripped of his clothing before the fagots were
lighted, still had the fortitude to speak words of comfort to his
fellow sufferer, Ridley. These three martyrs, like many others, were
the victims of the fanatical queen, whose persecution of Protestants
has given her the name of “Bloody Mary."

Fine Libraries, Museums, Theaters and an Art Gallery add to
the attractions of Oxford. It is pleasant to think that a man with-
out a title, and with limited means, can enjoy the privileges of this
famous University; that here, if nowhere else. the son of a prince
meets the son of a merchant, on an equal footing. We are told
that there are American boys studying in Oxford, who are among

the most promising pupils.
A little to the north of Oxford lies Blenheim, the estate of

the Duke 'of IVIarlborough. By order of Queen Anne, an act of
Parliament transferred this estate from the crown to John Churchill,
the ﬁrst duke of Marlborough, as a reward for his victory in the
battle of Blenheim, Bavaria, in the year 1703, when the English
forces conquered the French under Marshal Tallard.

As we alighted at the little station of \Voodstock, one day
about noon, we found that we had just four hours in which to get
our dinner, and visit the palace before the train left for \Varwick.
There seemed to be no hotel, but walking along the one business
street of the town, we discovered a modest restaurant, and entered.
The proprietor, who was also the waiter, regaled us with gossip

