418 PARIS

greater art to bring. out the character in the face of an-old apple
woman on a street corner, than to paint the beauty of a Venus -
rising from the sea.

During the reign of Napoleon 111., Paris was transformed.
Hundreds of old buildings were torn down, that handsome boulevards
might be laid out and the streets made straighter and wider. The
Avenue de l’Opéra is one of the ﬁnest; here, many of the best
shops are to be found. It extends from the Place du Theatre
Francais to the Place de l’Opéra.

At the end of the avenue, and facing it, is the gorgeous Opera
House, built (1861-1874) at a cost of about 47,000,000 francs, in—
cluding the land. The richest materials were used in its construc-
tion; marbles from Italy, porphyry from Finland, and granite from
Scotland. The exterior, despite its magniﬁcence, is overdecorated
and heavy, but the grand staircase and foyer are unsurpassed.
The steps, upon which forty persons can walk abreast, are of white
marble; the balustrades, of 70330 antz'co,* and the hand rail, of
Algerian onyx. .

We heard the opera of “La Favorite," on the evening of July
I 3th. Though we bought low priced tickets, by paying a small
fee to one of the ushers, who were all women, we were seated in
a box. Between the acts, one can walk in the foyer, and there
have excellent opportunities to see the costumes of the women.

Many of the small theaters, such as those on the Champs
Elysées, advertise their performances by hiring four or six men to
chant the program for the evening, .while walking down the streets
in front of the cafe tables. The two leaders start the tale, chant
a few lines, and the next two take it up.

On the morning of the same day, we rose at ﬁve o'clock,
and walked over to the Halles Centrales, the great market in the
heart of Paris. When I tell you that over 66,000,000 lbs. of meat
alone are brought to this market yearly, to say nothing of ﬁsh,
oysters, poultry and game, you will realize the importance of the
place. Every market woman is an artist in her own way, and takes
pride in the arrangement of her stock. The ﬁsh were laid in pat-

 

* Antique red marble.

 

