33s DRESDEN AND CARLSBAD

painted on the dish which is, subsequently, dipped in a liquid paste,
or glaze, and ﬁred again. If the underglazed decoration is not
used, then the design is painted on top of the glaze, or second ﬁring.
During the process of decoration, there are several more ﬁrings.
Some of the men were modelling ﬂowers for candelabra. They
work exactly as if making wax ﬂowers. cutting out the petals from
the sheets of dough, by a pattern. and then pinching them into
shape with their ﬁngers, and afﬁxing them to the standard. pre-
paratory to ﬁring and coloring. The best artists are employed to
model the ﬁgures and paint the elaborate designs. i

Until 1863, the potteries were connected with the castle of
Albrechtsburg. \Vithin the ramparts is a small village. \Ve drove
up the long, winding road and under the huge gateway, where, in
days gone by, the golden-haired bride of Albert I. rode on a pal-
frey beside her royal lover. The Saxon dames were of heroic mold
and, once, when the castle was attacked, hurled down great stones
with their strong arms, upon the heads of the besiegers, below.
There are many rare specimens of Royal Dresden in the cabinets
of the great dining-hall, where the initials of King Albert and
Queen Carola, the present rulers, are carved in the high backs of
the chairs.

On the way from Dresden to Carlsbad, the well-known resort.
where we are now stopping, we began to worry a little about the
condition of our travelling suits, which we had worn ever since
leaving America. However, we ﬁnd that we can walk about among
the fashionable folk, without attracting the least attention. The
guests at the hotels are chieﬂy Russian and French; at every turn,
one meets people twisted with rheumatism or in the last stages of
consumption.

The mineral springs, of which there are now nineteen, were
discovered in the 14th century by Charles IV., while hunting;'
hence, the name. Carlsbad,——Charles' Bath, although, according
to the records, they were known a hundred years earlier. The
chief ingredients of the waters are sulphate of soda, carbonate of
soda, and salt. They rise from a very hard kind of rock near the
Tepl river, the hot water gushing through the broken crust. The
main part of the town is built on this crust. and it is believed

 

