424. PAR/S

break into a hop, skip and jump and away they would go in the
merry whirl of dancers. They would often occupy the entire street,
stirring up clouds of dust; for carriages were not allowed to circu—
late through the center of the city, after eight o’clock. \Ve sat
down at one of the many hundred tables in front of the Café de
la Paix, on the Place de l’Opéra, and enjoyed some delicious ices,
while we watched the crowd for a couple of hours. The band
stand opposite was brilliant with red and yellow lanterns, and the
Grand Hetel behind us ﬂoated the Chinese flag from the apartments
occupied by Li Hung Chang. There was very little real dancing
here, on account of the density of the crowd. Many made des-
perate efforts, but after a few rounds invariably ending in an embrace
and a resounding smack, they would give it up and await the op—
portunity for another turn. No one seemed in the least shocked
or surprised at the open love-making. It appeared to be perfectly
proper for a well-dressed woman to promenade the boulevard with
her escort’s arm about her, and, if a pair of lovers wished to ex-
change a salute, no one commented or smiled, but took it as a
matter of celebration, merely. Everywhere, until after midnight,
ladies in couples, many of them foreigners like ourselves, walked
about unnoticed. I am told by the concierge" of our hotel that it
is not unusual for ladies to go about at night without escorts. on
holidays, and at her suggestion, we have attended the Theatre
Francais, and the Opéra without the least annoyance.

Now and then, one becomes tired of martyred saints on walls
and tombs, but of the living people, never, and nowhere in Paris
can they be better studied and enjoyed than in the Champs Elysées.
On both sides of the broad avenue leading to the Arc de Triomphe,
are public gardens ﬁlled with booths, miniature theaters, Punch
and Judy shows and merry-go-rounds. Lovers sit side by side on
the comfortable seats under the trees, and little children, with their
white-capped nurses, frisk about with hoops and balls. Everywhere
are the good-natured, pleasure-loving people. It takes so little to
make Paris content! I mean the Paris of the blouse and cap. A
tune from the ﬁddler, a few feet of pavement, a convenient wine

 

.-_._

* Fortress.

