ROJIE 161

two parts. In one, the artist models his red men, and in the other,
his wife, who is also a sculptor, molds her lifelike portrait busts.
Several ﬁnished statuettes were shown, as well as some in progress.
A splendid specimen of an Indian snake-dancer running at full
speed, his hair and the fringes of his moccasins ﬂying in the wind,
suggests as a title, “An American Mercury.” Another, not less
powerful in execution, is called “Primitive Music, " and represents
a warrior, half kneeling, half seated, making music with his lips
through his crooked elbow, while two chubby Indian children are
enjoying the weird melody. A clay model of a chaﬁng dish, to
be cast .-in bronze. the work of Mrs. MacNeil, is a delight to the
eye. The rim, intended to support the kettle, or pan, is upheld
by three supple female forms, their toes pressed together, their
bodies bent backward apparently to avoid the ﬁre beneath, and
their heads turned to one side, as if the heat of the kettle were too
great. It was so natural, so Pompeian in conception, that I gave a
cry of satisfaction at the cleverness which combined such a classic
design with utility. After gathering a bunch of roses from the
garden, we returned to our little room to rest and think over our
pleasant day and the happiness of meeting friends so far from home.

It requires a stretch of imagination to believe that the Vatican
is the largest and most beautiful palace in the world, for, as one
views it from the piazza of St. Peter's, its appearance is that of a
succession of yellow barracks. Nevertheless, the magniﬁcence of
the interior amply compensates for the ugly exterior. Entering the
colonnade on the right, we found ourselves before an entrance
patrolled by Swiss guards in gorgeous costumes of red, yellow and
black. There, we caught a glimpse of a marble staircase of vast
proportions. After procuring from an ofﬁcer a permit to visit the
picture galleries, we mounted the stairs and proceeded at once to
the Sistine Chapel, world-renowned because of Michael Angelo’s
stupendous frescoes of the “Creation, " upon the ceiling. and the
“Last Judgment," upon the altar wall.

This man of genius was born March 6th, 1475, in the town of
Caprese, Italy. In spite of many vicissitudes, he became the
greatest sculptor since the days of Phidias. When Pope Julius II.
commissioned him to paint the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel, he

11

