I 38 A THENS

the central door, which, when open, discloses the Holy Table on
which are placed the gospels, paintings of saints and service book.
Assistant priests use the two side doors. During the service, the
liturgy was chanted by an assistant and a ﬁne boy choir. There
were no artiﬁcial ﬂowers, no little lambrequins of cheap lace, no
harrowing cruciﬁxions or entombments. All things breathed rever-
ence, peace and quiet dignity.

Although we were pleased with St. Irene's, we were charmed
with the Russian church, near the palace, where the Queen attends
service, and whither we went about half past ten. The interior is
sumptuously decorated and furnished in the Greek colors, blue and
white. It is so small, that one can almost shake hands, as soon
as he enters, with the assistant priest chanting the service before
the tail/51071. There are no seats except within two side alcoves,
where the royal family were worshiping. The high priest, looking
like a patriarch, with ﬂowing hair and beard of snowy white, was
arrayed in a full robe of heavy blue and white silk bordered and
decorated in silver.- Upon his head was a turban or tall hat, set
with miniatures of saints surrounded by brilliants, and the spaces
between were embroidered in gold and pearls. The whole structure
was stiff, and seemed very heavy, as at different points in the
service, it was removed and replaced.

The ancient city of Athens was divided by Hadrian from the
new quarters by an arch, a part of which is still standing. An
inscription upon one side, translated, reads, “This is Athens, the old
city of Theseus;” that upon the other, “This is the city of Hadrian,
and not of Theseus." The arch formed the entrance, also, to the
quarter where there was a great temple dedicated to Zeus, “father
of gods and king of men." Sixteen of the huge Corinthian columns
yet remain to emphasize the general destruction. Legend relates
that from this spot the last waters of the Deluge disappeared.

The Theseum, Temple of Theseus, a mythical king of Athens,
is the best preserved ediﬁce in all Greece. After having braved the
storms of two thousand years, it shows only a few signs of decay;
the drums of some of the columns have been shifted a triﬂe by
earthquake shocks. This temple is supposed to have been erected
to commemorate the battle of Marathon.

