GRANA DA 67

Here poor, crazy Joanna, daughter of Ferdinand and Isabella, spent
many a weary day.

Lines from the Koran, the Mohammedan Bible, decorate the
side walls of the Mezquita, or Little Mosque, within the Alhambra,
and the Mihrab or Holy of Holies, where the sacred book was
kept, is a marvel of beauty. I wonder whether the dead return,
and, if they do, if it was all a vision, when, leaning against the
marble casement, I seemed to see the majestic ﬁgure of a Sultan
kneeling on the mosaic ﬂoor, with silken robes floating about him,
cruel, bigoted, despotic, as most of the leaders of the time were, yet
still a sovereign in pride, dignity and dauntless courage.

The dissensions of the Moors ﬁnally led to the downfall of
Granada, the last of their strongholds to yield to the Christians.
The legend runs that Muley Aben Hassan, Sultan of Granada,
falling in love with a Christian maiden, Isabella de Solis, set aside
his Sultana, Ayesha, and, conﬁning her and her son Boabdil in
the Tower of Comares, wedded the Christian girl, whom the Moors
called Zoraya, the “Star of the Morning." The Abencerrages ar-
rayed themselves on the side of Zoraya and the Zegris, another
clan, on that of Ayesha, One night, by the help of her ladies,
Ayesha let down her son from the tower window, whence he escaped
under the protection of the Zegris.

In 1482, Boabdil dethroned his father, and was thereafter known
as El Rey Chico, “The Younger King, " to distinguish him from a
usurping uncle; but his vengeful nature overreached his judgment,
and inviting a number of the Abencerrages to a feast, under a pre-
tense of peace, he had them beheaded, as I have already mentioned.
The rest were warned and escaped to Ferdinand and Isabella, who
were encamped over against Granada. Ayesha girded on the sword
of her son, which she hoped would repel all invaders. The young
Sultana Morayma wept when her lord, setting out to battle, broke
his lance against the gateway, for it was a bad omen. Granada
fell on January 2d, I492, when Boabdil, presenting the keys to the
Catholic sovereigns, Ferdinand and Isabella, left the place forever,
as some say by the Gate of the Seven Stories. Isabella, in ac-
cordance with his last request, afterward caused this gate to be
walled up.

