1. 0.11) ON 463

used as a fortress in case of war, and we are told that the moat
could be ﬁlled at any time. Surrounding the \Vhite Tower are
twelve others, and a strong wall. One enters by the Lion’s Gate,
where once the royal menagerie, now at the Zoological Gardens,
was stationed.

The warders in and about the Tower are soldiers of merito-
rious service, and wear quaint costumes consisting of baggy trou-
sers, belted blouses and wide hats of red and black. They are
nicknamed “Beef-eaters,” as, in ancient times, the Yeomen of the
Guard were served with rations of beef, daily.

Within the gate is a little chapel, where are buried, among
others, Lady Jane Grey and the Countess of Salisbury, Devereux,
Earl of Essex and two of the six queens of Henry VIII.,—Anne
Boleyn and Catharine Howard; these ﬁve were beheaded in the
courtyard of the Tower, and a brass tablet marks the spot where
the block stood. ’

We walked up the great stone stairs of the White Tower,
where the bodies of the little princes, sons of Edward IV., were
once hidden. When Edward died, his brother, the Duke of Glouces-
ter, afterwards Richard III., declared his marriage invalid, and his
sons illegitimate. He had them conﬁned in the tower, and soon
after, it was announced that they were dead. Though the circum-
stances seemed suspicious, evidently no one dared accuse Richard,
then on the throne, and it was not until twenty years later that
the bones of the princes were found beneath the stairs. The fact
then became known that, at Richard's command, the children had
been smothered in their beds.

The collection of armor and relics in the Banqueting Hall and
Council Chamber is very interesting; it includes equestrian ﬁgures
fully equipped for the tournament, a mounted wax ﬁgure of
Elizabeth, and the cloak upon which General Wolfe died at Que-
bec, in 1759.

The Crown Jewels are kept in the Wakeﬁeld Tower, in a
glass case protected by an iron cage, and further, by a strong
metal lattice. It is difﬁcult to see them distinctly, but, as there
have been several attempts to steal them, precaution is necessary.
With the exception of Queen Victoria’s Crown, which contains the

