2 52 - VENICE

\Vhen we reached the top of the Giants' Staircase, so called
from the colossal statues of Mars and Neptune. on the landing, we
stood upon the very spot where the Doges were crowned. In the
loggia, beyond, is a line of portrait busts of great Italians; among
them. those of john and Sebastian Cabot, so closely allied to the
history of our country.

The furniture of the state apartments has long since been
removed, but the paintings inclosed in carved frames of gilded
wood or stucco, some of them a foot and a half in depth, give an
idea of the splendor of the palace, when Venice ruled the seas.

After passing through the Hall of the Four Doors, we entered
the Hall of the Assembly, where the glorious ceiling paintings by
Paolo Veronese and the “Marriage of St. Catherine " painted on
the side wall by Tintoretto interpret something of the feeling and
spirit of ancient Venice.

In Tintoretto's famous picture, we see a young girl, with purity
of heart stamped upon her sweet face, ascending a ﬂight of steps
to receive the ring held out by the Christ child, who, in the arms
of the Madonna, leans forward to greet her. The Virgin's blue
mantle is upheld by angels. This picture is especially noteworthy
because of the fine composition and careful blending of the colors.

How I wish you could see the painting of “Venetia,” seated
on the globe, giving audience to‘justice and Peace! Think of a
Venus with golden hair bound with pearls, eyes of slumbering fire,
cheeks the color of a glowing rose, throat where the delicate blue
veins show through the transparent skin, and mouth like a ripe
pomegranate. Clothe this goddess in gold-brocaded satin and a
crimson velvet mantle lined with ermine. Give her the soul of a
patrician proud of the State, her rank and learning, and you will
see the Venetia of Veronese.

The Virtues occupy the smaller compartments of the ceiling.
“Moderation " is represented holding a restive eagle by the wing:
the arm of “Fidelity" is about the neck of a huge mastiff; the
most charming of all, “Industry,” holds aloft a web. The poise
of this ﬁgure is free, the sweep of the silken draperies, regal, while
the splendid eyes, beaming with sublime energy. look up through
the web as if invoking divine benediction upon all honest labor.

