382 THE HAGUE, AJISTERDAJI, ArVD DELFT

residences, and country houses in the suburbs. Upon inquiry we
found that they were sentiments, placed there by the owner, such
as, “Rest and Happiness,” “Joy and Peace.” By the way, the
Dutch, like the Germans, are very fond of sentimental inscriptions
on many things; even their beer mugs are so decorated. The shops.
also, have certain odd features. For instance. instead of colored
lights in a drug store, there is a Turk's head, incirclcd by a turban,
to indicate the dispenser of medicines.

In Holland, we are able to get postage stamps in the hotels,
which is a comfort. In Italy, we were always obliged to go to a
tobacco shop for them.

Mrs. M. spent yesterday in Amsterdam, leaving me behind to
doctor a bad cold, and rest. She returned very enthusiastic over
the great, commercial capital of Holland, which, like Venice, stands
on piles and is intersected by canals, and a river. However, she
says it differs from the Italian city, as it possesses broad streets
with plenty of shade trees. The canals are often as wide as small
rivers, and are crossed by bridges traversed by street cars. There-
fore, it is more like a modern city, though very picturesque.

The North Sea Canal, built at a cost of 35,000,000 ﬂorins,
connects Amsterdam with the North Sea. In the middle of the
great dam which separates the North Sea Canal from the Zuider-
zee, are ﬁne locks, the largest, 110 yds. in length; the gates, of
which there are ﬁfty-six, weigh thirty-four tons, each. Mrs. M.
said that, although the locks were a ﬁne sight, they did not seem
to her any more wonderful than those of the Sault Ste. Marie. in
Michigan. Mrs. M. also visited the Ryks Museum. which covers
nearly three acres and is filled with valuable works of art. There
she saw the celebrated “Night \Vatch” by Rembrandt.

As she entered the Zoological Garden (second in size only to
that of London) it began to rain, and the effect upon the parrots.
on perches beside the entrance, was comical. They set up such
a screaming and scolding that the wild beasts were aroused. and,
in a moment. the howls and roars were almost deafening.

Wilhelmina, the young, uncrowned Queen of Holland, is the
daughter of \Villiam III. Her photographs are in every shop window
and public building; one has only to mention her name to bring

