ROJ/E 191

the state apartments. The walls of the suites of rooms are covered
with satin damask in different colors, shading from light to dark.
with furniture to match. An oil painting of the Queen, in full
court costume and wearing her famous necklace of pearls, hangs
in one of the reception rooms. She is very fond of these gems,
as “Margherita” means a pearl, and, each year, her husband adds
to the necklace, which is so long, now, that the lower strand reaches
below her waist.

After our drive on the Pincian, we joined the procession on the
Corso, thus named from the races that once took place there during
the Carnival. This thoroughfare is very narrow, and here the horses
slacken their pace and the occupants of carriages exchange greet-
ings and the latest gossip, or draw up to the CaHe di Roma. or
Peroni's. for an ice. Little tables seating four are placed in front
of the agﬂc, where the most delicious creams and ices are served.
At Peroni's there is a long counter covered with fancy cakes; each
person takes a plate, makes his own selection and carries it to his
table. After the refreshments are ﬁnished, the vaiter'askshow
many cakes one has eaten, and the bill is settled accordingly.
Speaking of tables. reminds me of home, and how hungryI am for
an American dish; positively, a baked potato and some creamed
codﬁsh, plebeian as they are, would seem food “ﬁt for the gods.”

Though it was raining “cats and dogs, ” we went to three churches
the ﬁrst Sunday after our arrival. It is pleasant to attend service,
and examine the building, later. Early mass found us at Santa
Maria Maggiore, so called as it is the largest of the eighty Roman
churches dedicated to the Virgin. The high altar is a great sar-
cophagus of porphyry, which the Romans say contains the remains
of St. Matthew, but, as the cathedral at Salerno also claims them,
one is torn between conﬂicting opinions.

A drive of one and a half miles brought us to Santa Croce
in Gerusalemme, one of the seven pilgrimage churches, erected by
St. Helena, who is said to have discovered the true cross. The
relics of the cross are kept here and exhibited annually, on May 3rd.
I wish you could have seen the faith in the rapt faces of the
people, when the relics were held aloft by the bishop! You would
have been apt to think, What does it matter, whether these frag-

