2 I 2 PISA .4 ND FL 0]? EA'CE

tioned as early as the 12th century, where Galileo. the celebrated
philosopher and astronomer, was educated and afterward taught.

With Galileo ”the science of motion began to exist." He did
not invent the telescope, but the report of its invention by the
Greek scholar, Demiscianus, set him to work to imitate it; the
result, after several minor attempts, was an instrument of thirty-
two magnifying power which was used all over Europe. Galileo
made his ﬁrst experiments in gravitation at the top of the Leaning
Tower and there proved to the students of the university that a
heavy body does not always fall with a velocity in proportion to
its weight. After living seventy years in prosperity and receiving
the highest honors, he incurred the displeasure of- the Church, and
as a result retired from public life. He died at Florence in 1642.

Our route from Pisa skirted the smiling valley of the Arno
rich with farms and gardens, and led us to beautiful Florence, the
Queen of Tuscany. Her fair head is crowned by a diadem of
glorious workmanship, set with priceless gems of poetry and art,
and the secrets of a line of men whose patronage could raise the
humblest to affluence and power are locked within her breast.

It was a thrilling moment when we ﬁrst stood on the Piazza
della Signoria,* a splendid square in the heart of the city. Upon
one side is the Palazzo Vecchio. the old palace which was the
seat of government, and, subsequently, the residence of the Medici.

Close by, is the Ufﬁzi, once a city hall, now containing one
of the most celebrated art galleries in the world. It forms three
sides of a rectangle and porticoes adorned with statues of great
Tuscans face the central court. At the end overlooking the river,
the upper stories rest upon arches through which an enchanting
vista of the mouhtains is obtained.

Across one end of the Ufﬁzi, facing the piazza is an open
vaulted hall called the Loggia dei Lanzi since the time of the
Grand Duke Cosimo 1., who posted his German lancers here. The
aristocracy sat in this loggia during state ceremonies and the people
assembled in the square. It is now a sculpture gallery and con-
tains several noted groups, among them the “Perseus with the

 

 

* The square of the government.

