88 .VAI’LES Ali-VD THE J/ED/TERRAzVEAN

torrent descended to Massa and San Sebastiano, which it partly
destroyed, and ran to a distance of three miles in twelve hours.
At the same time, amidst terriﬁc thundering, the crater poured
forth huge volumes of smoke mingled with red-hot stones and lava
to a height of 4,000 ft., whilst clouds of ashes, rising to double
that height, were carried by the wind in one direction one hundred
and forty miles. The lava emitted during this eruption covers an
area of two square miles and averages thirteen 'feet in depth. The
damage was estimated at 3,000,000fmm'5 ($600,000).

“The cause of these phenomena is still, to some extent, a
matter of conjecture. It is highly probable that they are intimately
connected with the water of the sea, near which all the principal
volcanoes are situated. There is reason to believe that the enor-
mous clouds of steam generated during the eruptions are due to
some temporary communication of the water with the burning
liquids of the interior of the earth, and that the premonitory earth-
quakes are occasioned by the vapors and gases as they expand
and endeavor to ﬁnd an outlet."

The red-hot fluids expelled from the volcano are called lava,
the stones, scorz’w, and the minute portions, ashes. If the sides of
the cone are strong enough to resist the lava, it ﬂows out from
the top of the crater, otherwise. through the sides. \Nhen freed
from the pressure of the lava, the vapors rise to a height of 10,000
ft., resembling a pine in form, carrying dense masses of ashes
along with them; they are then condensed in the air, and in descend-
ing give rise to those formidable streams of mud which proved
so disastrous to Herculaneum. The appearance of ﬁre at night in
the smoky column is not ﬂame, but the reﬂection of the molten
lava inside the crater on the rising clouds of vapor.

Imagine us on the second seat of Cook and Co.’s four-horse
coach, on our way to Vesuvius. The back seat was occupied by
a Russian doctor and his wife; the front, by the driver, together with
a big, burly, black—bearded German, and a Parisian swell. Quite a
mixture, was it not? i

Portici is the ﬁrst town after leaving Naples, of which it seems
a continuation. \Ve crossed the court of the palace built there
by Charles 111., in 1738. in the old park connected with it.

 

