I

NAPLES AA’D THE IllED/TEA’RAA75AN 8!

National Museum. The bronzes and mural decorations recovered
from the once buried cities of Pompeii and Herculaneum are to be
seen here, their colors in the most marvellous state of preservation.
Two masterpieces of Greek art attract the attention at once. They
belonged to the noble Farnese family, and are designated as the
Farnese Hercules,* and the Farnese Bull. The latter is world-
renowned and deserves especial mention.

It is a group illustrating the Greek legend of Dirce, who was
changed into a fountain at Thebes. She was the wife of Lycus,
the king of Thebes. Antiope, the niece of Lycus, was 'carried off
by the king of Sicyon, who, later, was forced to yield her up. On
her way to Thebes, Antiope gave birth to twin sons, who were left
with a herdsman on the mountains to be reared. Dirce became
jealous of Antiope, who was very beautiful, and concealed the
whereabouts of her children until they had grown to manhood.
Persecuted by Dirce, Antiope escaped to the mountains. There
she was sheltered, unknowingly, by her sons, who were living in a
hut. Dirce, following, discovered her hiding—place and ordered the
two youths to tie her to the horns of a wild bull to be dragged to
death. The Queen’s command was about to be obeyed, when the
old herdsman entered, recognized Antiope and revealed her identity
to her sons. They were so enraged that they inflicted upon Dirce
the doom intended for their mother, and she was dragged over the
mountains, ﬁnally being changed into a fountain. From these waters
Hercules is said to have obtained his great strength. The group
of marble shows the two sons struggling to hold a bull while they
fasten to its horns one end of the rope which is attached to the
coils of Dirce’s hair. Antiope, the personiﬁcation of Justice, stands
beside them. The modelling of the sturdy youths is excellent.

I wish you could have seen us, Friday night, writing at our
little table with two “pinching bugs, ” as Mrs. M. dubs our candles,
in front of us. Our faces were sunburned to the exact hue of
the scarlet tablecloth, by a day at Pompeii. Instead of going, as
is usual, by train, we drove, in order to see the life of the suburbs.
Breakfast, taken in our room, consisted of a cup of tea, rolls and

 

—_—_

* The god of strength.
6

