VIENNA AND BUDAPEST 3 I 7

poleon crossed the Danube, and there had his headquarters during
the battle of VVagram. On we glided, past the spurs of the Little
Carpathians, with, now and then, a ruined castle or monastery to
relieve the monotony of the landscape. Late in the day, there
burst upon our sight a dazzling vision, an ideal city, bathed in
the golden glory of the setting sun. On the slopes to our right.
was Ofen, more commonly known as Buda. with the Fortress and
Royal Palace; on the left, Pest; while, in the background, rose
the old citadel of Blocksberg. Across the river sweep splendid
bridges. The Suspension Bridge, with its stone lions, is one
of the largest in Europe. All were bright with pennants, and
from every tower and turret ﬂoated the red, white and green of
Hungary.

As the steamer touched the landing below the Franz Joseph
quay, we could see gaily dressed throngs upon this favorite prom-
enade. Lounging against trees or leaning over parapets, eyeing
their more fortunate brethren, were peasants from the outlying
districts. The mothers carried their babies in their arms. and the
lunch bags were slung over the shoulders of the men. The latter
wore the Magyar skirt of white cloth with a round jacket; the
women were clad in short. full skirts, gold-embroidered belts and
high-topped boots, and bright-colored kerchiefs were tied over
their heads. Old women, with green, earthen pitchers of water,
refreshed the thirsty, in return for a small coin. All were in a
joyous mood, for, on the morrow, they were to behold the great
procession celebrating the thousandth anniversary of the establish-
ment of their kingdom.

We had been warned again and again that we could not
secure accommodations at Budapest, as every place was over-
crowded, and it was with some anxiety that we disembarked upon
the Franz Joseph quay, at the very doors of the large hotels.
Going at once to the Bristol, we were informed that they could
not give us a bed, as even their billiard rooms were engaged;
however, they referred us to a private house near by. There, we
secured a comfortable room for ﬁve ﬂorins per day, with a cheery
family of Hungarians, and considered ourselves the luckiest people
abroad.

