I ELY/C]? 261

niche and bricked up the opening. It seemed so pathetic! no one
wept; no one but the bearers looked sad; the two women carried
their tall candles as if in a festal procession. The priest, who
accompanied them, began to take off his vestments as soon as the
workingmen opened the niche in the wall, and, with the boy attend-
ant, trotted away without saying a word to the people.

Murano possesses 3,900 inhabitants, the majority more or less
interested in the manufacture of Venetian glass, an industry iden—
tiﬁed with the island since the 14th century. The children of
Venetian nobles in the old days intermarried with those of the
glass manufacturers, and their descendants inherited titles of
nobility. Murano had its own Golden Book of Descent, and its
own mint.

The Museum contains rare specimens of the glass blowers' art,
many secrets of which were long lost.

In the furnace rooms of the factory we visited, men were at
work on an order of globes for chandeliers. In making this kind
of glass, where many colors are employed and the designs are
unique, each man must be an artist.

The glass cubes for moSaic work are made in Murano and
quantities of them are sent to the big factory of Salviati, on the
Grand Canal, where we stopped on our return. i This establish-
ment furnished the mosaics in the Columbus Building, Chicago,
and the manager referred to the fact with great pride. A design
for the interior of the dome of the Guards’ Chapel, London, is
now being executed.

The process is as follows: cubes of all colors are placed in
pigeon-hole cabinets ready for the artist; the design is sketched on
heavy paper, and upon this the mosaic is set; a second design in
water colors hangs, for reference, in front of the workman, who
has at his right an iron wedge. a hammer, and a pot of glue.
He selects his cube and, laying it on the iron wedge, knocks off
with a sharp-edged hammer a piece of the desired size, perhaps,
a square, perhaps, a thin wedge, and with the glue fastens the
right side to the design, in the proper spot. The wrong side of
the mosaic is toward the artist. When it is cemented upon. the
wall for which it was designed, and after it is dry, the paper,

