352 A'é'ﬁ’lz‘J/BEA’G AJ'D TIIE BLACK FOREST

at ﬁrst, but, as the lord of \Vunnenstein was persistent, and Hil-
degard signiﬁed her desire to accompany her betrothed and share
his dangers, he could no longer refuse. Calling his retainers to
.arms, he set out, with the maiden riding by his side. They over-
took the enemy in a few hours beside the river Murg, and a terri-
ble battle insued. The two \Volfs fought bravely and, even in the
thickest of the ﬁght. Hildegard was beside her lover, warding off
stroke after stroke intended for him. At last, her spear was torn
from her hands, but, seeing a lance aimed at the breast of the
Count, she threw herself in front of him and received the murder-
ous point in her own bosom. This so infuriated the knight and
his followers that they redoubled their efforts and were left masters
of the ﬁeld. The fair Hildegard was laid to rest in the old church
of Gernsbach, and the bereaved \Volf, who had sworn never to call
another woman, wife, passed the remainder of his days, alone.

All about the castle are beautiful roses, and ivy climbs lovingly
up the massive walls. In the court is a fountain, and a carved
stone shrine. On either side of the entrance are bronze statues
of several Counts of Eberstein, in full armor; their escutcheons line
the passages, though the carvings are nearly obliterated.

We had dinner at Gernsbach down in the valley, where we
could look up at the very heights from which we had looked down.
The meal was served under a spreading beech in the hotel garden,
on the banks of the river, and we then returned to Baden-Baden,
passing a number of foresters with baskets strapped to their backs.
and great logs being hauled to the town, by oxen. \Ve could smell
the new-mown hay in the valley, as the farmers' wives and daughters
turned it over with their wooden forks.

Although we were anxious to see a real nunnery, we lifted the old
iron knocker of the Cistercian Convent, near the town, with a tremor
of doubt as to our admittance. In a moment, a pleasant face, framed
in a snowy cap, peered out from the window above, and a gentle
voice bade us enter. Ascending a stone staircase, we found our-
selves in front of a heavy oaken door, in the center of which was
a metal lattice. A nun wearing a peculiar, winged headdress and
a ﬂuted collar, both of spotless linen, appeared at the opening.
Greeting us with a few, kind words, she pointed to the door of a large

