180 ROJIE

Until I saw the Basilica of Constantine, I hardly appreciated
what the Roman architects of the past were capable of doing.
The span of the central hall is 80 ft.; the height, 112 ft.; so grand
is the vaulted roof that it seems the work of more than human
hands

The view of the Palatine Hill from this point is charming.
Just beyond the ruins, on the crest of the hill, stands a modern
yellow house: a fountain, embowered in trailing vines, plays in a
niche in its facade, tumbling in a cascade to a stone basin be-
neath; the remnants of a garden balustrade decorated with potted
plants, and the crumbling walls of several ancient structures below,
complete the picture.

\Ve walked down the Sacred Way to the exit and then over
to the Colosseum, which occupies the site of an artiﬁcial lake in
the gardens of Nero. Begun by Vespasian, and ﬁnished by Titus,
80 A. D., it is the largest amphitheater in the world, and takes
its present name from the colossal statue of Nero, as god of the
sun, which formerly stood near. Its completion was inaugurated
by gladiatorial combats in which many thousand wild animals were
killed. The external circumference measures 576 yds.: the long
diameter, 205 yds., the shorter, 170 yds., and the height, 156 ft.
Seats for 87,000 spectators rose in tiers from the arena and were
reached by arcades and numerous ﬂights of steps. The front row
of seats was reserved for the emperor, his court and the Vestal
virgins. The Christian Emperor Honorius, in 405 A. D., abolished
gladiatorial contests, though ﬁghts between beasts were permitted.
It was not until the 15th century that the people began to regard
the Colosseum as a kind of quarry; from that time on, its columns
and decorations were removed and used in the construction of other
buildings. In the 18th century, Benedict XIV. consecrated it to
the blood of the martyrs that had been shed there, thus putting
aistop to the destruction '

South of the Colosseum is the great Arch of Constantine,
erected to commemorate his victory over h-‘Iaxentius, and his con-
version to Christianity.

We were greatly interested in the small portion of the Golden
House of Nero which was excavated in 1813. N0 act of this

