9;.» 1030.1] (‘APA’I 7‘0 BkLVD/S/

silvery appearance assumed by all objects in the water. The sur~
face of the sea near the Grotto is covered with star and jelly-r ﬁsh,
while delicate seaweeds, mosses and waving anemones are found in
great varieties in the depths below.

\Vomen selling coral haunt the quays and hotels. A bunch
of ten strings costs only a lz'm. There are about 4,700 inhabitants
on the island, employed chieﬂy in ﬁshing and in cultivating fruit
and the vine. _

In crossing from Capri to Sorrento, it seems as if, one were
going to explore a town of cliff-dwellers, the white houses built on
the summit of the rocks are so secure from intrusion. Narrow
gorges form natural pathways from the sea, inland. The supersti-
tious people believe that the ravines are inhabited by a race of
dwarfs. We landed at the foot of the cliffs, and instead of taking
the cable tramway, climbed the stone steps to the town above;
now and then pausing to catch views of the beautiful island we
had just left. A tiny sail close to its shores again suggested lines
from T. Buchanan Read's poem:—

°‘ My winged boat.
A bird aﬂoat,
Swims round the purple peaks remote:—”

After selecting a delightful room at one of the hotels, shaded
by purple wistaria in full bloom, we walked in company with two
Boston girls over" to the Piazza, where there is a marble statue of
Torquato Tasso, the celebrated poet, who was born at Sorrento in
154.4. Wood mosaics, the manufacture of which has become an art
in this town, ﬁll the shop windows. From the road, little can be seen
of the dwellings and luxuriant gardens, as high walls inclose them.
The beautiful villa of F. Marion Crawford, the novelist, is situated
on a bluff overlooking the sea.

In the evening, at Hotel Victoria, we witnessed the tarantella,
the national dance, which became a mania at one time, but is now
merely an amusement. It originated at Tarentum, where the venom-
ous tarantula spider is found. The bite of this insect is said to
cause madness. and music and dancing are believed to be the only
antidotes to the poison.

