FROJ/ 0L YJIP/A TO 1804le 147

a straight one, so that the runners did not return to the starting
point, as at Athens; it was exactly one Olympic mile in length.
The main gymnasium was more than a stadium long. Here the
athletes were obliged to practice under the direction of trainers for
a month previous to the contests, while those who so desired were
permitted to practice there the entire ten months. The court used
by the wrestlers is paved with a material corrugated like ﬁre brick.

But I shall weary you if I give further details, so we will
leave the temples and go across the bridge to the Museum where
the precious marbles are now carefully housed. The broken
pieces of the sculptured pediments of the temple of Zeus are
fastened to the wall of a large room in their exact relative posi-
tion and small models, showing the pediments restored, are near
by. One represents centaurs at a marriage festival, attempting
to abduct the maidens. Fourteen thousand small bronzes, as well
as larger marbles, have been found in the ruins. \Ve also noticed
a bronze discus or quoit, thick in the center and thin at the edge.
According to the inscription, it was used in the 225th Olympiad.*
In a room especially designed for it stands the Hermes of Praxit-
eles, to me, the most beautiful statue in the world. The smile of
the mobile mouth is as gentle, the curling locks as crisp, as when
the master sculptor gave the ﬁnishing touch to his labors. The
gathered mold of a thousand years has stained the perfect oval of
the cheek and throat, but we forget that, when under the spell of
such beauty. Several years ago, I heard Professor Thomas David-
son, of New York, lecture on the discovery of this ﬁgure in 1878.
He said that, as the statue was unearthed and lay at full length
on the ground, he knelt down to study the features, in order to
determine whether or not it was the Hermes so eagerly sought.
Gazing intently upon it, he suddenly felt the warm blood rush to
his face, and experienced a feeling of mortiﬁcation. Rising, he
questioned himself as to the cause of the emotion. It seemed that
the spirit of the sculptor had so inspired the speechless marble as
to make him feel that he had been impertinently staring into the
face of the living. '

Hermes, the favorite son and winged messenger of Zeus, was

 

 

* A period of four years.

 

