128 A THEAKS'

As the name of each was announced by the herald, the ﬂag of
his country was run up to the top of the ﬂagstaff near the entrance
of the stadium. and greeted by a round of applause from the winner's
friends and compatriots. I can assure you that, at the eleventh
appearance of our glorious stars and stripes. the enthusiasm was
most gratifying. Greeks vying with Americans in loud demonstra-
tions of delight. Each man walked up the steps of the throne,
and after shaking hands with the King, who spoke a word of con-
gratulation, received a diploma, a medal and a branch of the sacred
olive tree from Olympia. We were overjoyed to see every one of
the Americans back down the steps easily and gracefully. and much
amused at the awkwardness of some of the foreigners, who, born
and brought up in kingdoms, should have been familiar with court
etiquette. The medals were of silver, with the Acropolis engraved
upon one side, and, on the other, the head of Olympian Zeus.
After the presentation was over, the King made a speech, and the
Crown Prince, whom the King publicly embraced, followed with
another. The success of the games was due mainly to the energy,
good judgment and clever management of the Prince. Then came
the procession of the victors. They marched about the stadium,
headed by the Greek who won the Marathon race. How we cheered
our boys who followed him! How glad we were that it was a
Greek who won the race commemorating that great achievement
which once saved Athens from destruction! I will repeat the story
as it was related to me. ,

There were 100,000 Persians and only 10,000 Greeks on the
plain of Marathon. at the great battle of August 12th, 490 B. C.
The Greeks, in order to make their 'line as Icing as that of the
Persians, were obliged to weaken the center. but the.sides were
strengthened. They stood so close together that their shields
formed a solid wall. When a favorable moment arrived, Miltiades,
commander of the Greeks, ordered them to charge the barbarians,
at a run. The Persians gained at ﬁrst, as some of them forced
their way through the center of their opponents, and drove them
back to the mountains, but the wings, where were stationed
the Athenians and their allies, closed about the remainder and
utterly vanquished them. Above the Athenians slain that day, a

 

