46 CAD/Z

chair, and, awaiting the attack of the beast, ﬁx his darts, one in
each shoulder, and slip aside just in time to escape the lowered
horns which demolish the chair.

The most important actor, and the last to appear upon the
scene, is the Toreador costumed in the richest of satin embroid-
ered in gold or silver. \Vith his cape over his left arm and sword
in hand he walks toward the President's box. There he halts, and,
ﬂinging his cape upon the ground, swears to perform his duty.
After receiving the order from the President to kill the bull, he
generally advances into the center of the arena, and by waving his cape
attracts the attention of the animal, which previous to this moment
has been distracted by the combined efforts of the Picadores and
Banderilleros. The Toreador is the darling of the people and
must necessarily possess a keen eye, steady nerve and ﬁrm hand.
The sword-thrust to dispatch the now thoroughly enraged creature,
that bounds forward with ﬂaming eyes and bleeding wounds, must
be quick and sure. Not a second too soon or too late, but just
as the fearful horns seem about to raise the Toreador from the
ground, there is a swift movement, an agile spring to the left, and
the weapon has entered the quivering ﬂesh between the shoulder
blades. The animal. only a moment before such a dangerous
assailant, falls lifeless at the feet of the victor who waves his sword
triumphantly above his head. .

This bull ring seats 14,000 people. The admission is six
pesetas;* but, no matter how poor the Spaniard, he can always
scrape together enough to enable him to enjoy the national sport.

The ladies on such festal occasions don their gala costumes
and always wear a white mantilla instead of the usual black one.
It is a curious fact that such an element of cruelty and blood-
thirstiness should enter into the character of these admirable
and agreeable people. The bull seems to be considered the com-
mon enemy of the race; so that the very babies play at bull-ﬁght-
ing. After all, is it really much worse as a spectacle than a
prize ﬁght where human beings pound each other to a jelly, ap-
plauded and encouraged by men of supposed education and reﬁne—

 

 

*SI.20.

