274 SH'ISS CIT/ES ArVD JIULV/CII

in the middle part of the glacier moves much faster than that near
the sides or banks; also the surface moves faster than the bottom.
Both these facts obtain in the motion of a river, in consequence
of the friction of the fluid on its banks and in consequence also of
that internal friction of the fluid which constitutes its viscosity.
The glacier, like a stream, has its pools and its rapids. \Vhere
it is embayed by rocks, it accumulates: its declivity increases and
its velocity, at the same time. ” Mr. Forbes found, in taking ob-
servations upon glaciers, that some melted at the rate of I7..1r
inches in 25% hrs., in the month of June, and that the motion
of the glacier continues even in winter.

The glacier mills are probably formed by the moving ﬁeld of
ice. as it passes over a small boulder lying. in a hollow of a flat
rock, or even in a pool. The continual grinding of the glacier
naturally causes the boulder to revolve and, in time, to form a
spiral hole in the rock. In the Glacier Garden there are several
of these holes, with the boulders in the bottom, dating from the
glacial period.*

In a small park adjoining are some mountain Chamois, a species
of antelope with bright brown eyes and the blackest of horns. A
stripe of'orange down the nostrils makes a sharp and altogether
pleasing contrast in color. They are the prettiest little creatures
imaginable.

One morning, we took the steamer for Alpnach, on our way
to Interlaken. The Lake of the Four Forest Cantons is very
irregular in outline. and, as the steamer stops at many places on
both shores, we had constantly changing views of the Rigi, Pilatus
and the solemn, old Stanserhorn.

From Alpnach we went by train through the glorious valley
of Obwalden where farms were laid out as evenly as the squares
on a checkerboard. The housewives of the pretty little chalets
had hung their feather beds and pillows out to air on the balconies,
where the morning sun was shining brightest. Fat cattle were
feeding on the hillsides, the bell tied to the neck of each cow
giving a tinkle that was delightfully pastoral.

* Prehistoric.

