306 V l E ACVA .4 A7) I)’ UDA PEST

The ill-fated Emperor of Mexico, Maximilian, was an Austrian and,
doubtless, sent home many Mexican curios. A head-dress of pea-
cock feathers, once worn by Montezuma, is on exhibition. It is
fully four feet high, and made of ﬁne, eyeless feathers, the head
band elaborately decked with beaten gold disks. In the crystal
room is the jewel-bouquet that Maria Theresa gave to her husband,
Francis 1., to whom she bore sixteen children. It is in a vase of
rock crystal and is valued at £6,000. There are lilies and daisies
made of white onyx, with diamond centers; pansies of amethysts;
narcissus of agate; forget-me-nots of turquoise; wheat-ears of moon-
stones with diamond tips and emerald leaves, and rosebuds of
single, pear-shaped rubies.

The carriage of the consul was at our hotel at a quarter before
seven, for the performance in Austrian playhouses begins at seven.
The New Yorkers were charming, and we enjoyed “Little Lord
Fauntleroy,” and, also, the opportunity to see some of the beauti-
ful women of Vienna, who occupied the boxes. Since the burning
of the Ring Theater in 1881, when 400 lives were lost, the theaters
in Vienna are required to have iron drop curtains.

As the consul had been so thoughtful as to procure tickets of
admission to the Royal Treasury, for the entire party, we started
the next morning for the Hofburg, the imperial palace, where it is
situated. The Treasury contains objects of historic interest, the
value of which is inestimable. In ancient times, kings carried their
treasures about with them, sometimes, even to war. In a case in
the ﬁrst room, were Charlemagne’s crown, scepter and sword; in
another, his mantle and gloves thickly embroidered with gold and
seed pearls. This monarch is said to have been nine feet tall, and
one does not doubt the tale, when he sees the proportions of this
outﬁt. Among the famous relics were the spear of St. Maurice; a
gold case, said to contain the arm bone of St. Anne; a tooth of
john the Baptist, and a superbly jewelled casket inclosing earth
saturated with the blood of St. Stephen, the ﬁrst Christian king
of Hungary. \Vhenever the reigning sovereign desires to venerate
it, the high priest opens the casket. We saw the silver and gold
cradle presented by France to Napoleon's son, and the crown jewels,
including the Austrian imperial diadems.- There was a superb col-

