32Jr Ir'lEAZVJ .m'l) 3011—11953?

ful and brilliant, is in wretched health, and has lived in the strictest
seclusion since the death of her son, the Crown Prince Rudolph.
The members of the Court were assembled when the Emperor
arrived. and, when he offered his hand, each person knelt upon
one knee to receive his salutation, as ceremoniously as if in a draw-
ingroom. The Court is in mourning for the brother of the Emperor,
who died recently, and the ladies presented a somber contrast to
the gaily dressed beauties in the grand stand.

Only noblemen participated in the tournament; six men were
entered for each of the ﬁve contests, which were trials of skill in
riding. As the Hungarians are noted for ﬁne horsemanship, they
made a splendid appearance as they galloped across the ﬁeld, ex-
actly at the time appointed; for the Emperor is punctual to a second,
and no one dares to loiter in his presence. The riders drew up
before their sovereign and saluted; then, rode to the judges’ stand, to
receive orders. There was some excellent hedge and ditch jump-
ing, and, in the last race, the horses were all of ‘full Arabian blood.

The prizes for the tournament were displayed on two tables
near the royal tent. There were two in money; one, of 12.000
ﬂorins, the other, of 8,000 ﬂorins; several medals, silver cups and
tankards. When the Princess Stephanie entered her carriage, the
applause was deafening, for this Belgian princess has won many
friends in Austria.

We spent a forenoon, walking about the grounds of the For-
tress, and Royal Palace, but were unable to enter. as the Court
is present. Then we went over to the Matthias Kirche, a church
said to have been built by King Bela IV.; here, Emperor Franz
Joseph and Empress Elisabeth were crowned, in 1867.

There are numerous important mineral springs in Budapest;
for example, the Hunyady-Janos, from which quantities of water
are exported annually to America.

Hungary is one of the richest countries in Europe, possessing
natural resources which seem inexhaustible. There are ﬁne marble
quarries, as well as gold. silver, copper and lead mines. The opals
of Seiros are celebrated for their great beauty.

The wines, especially the tokay, grown on the slopes of volcanic
mountains near Tokay, are of the rarest.

