1L 0ND 0A" 459

the streets. Every one seems to be full of business; the men look
solid and solemn, and the women, like good wives and mothers
who have no interest in frippery. In fact, most of them are pos-
itively dowdy. Their carriage is often anything but graceful, and
it is the fashion to wear the hair at the back of the head in a
hideous wad, called a “bun," while the front locks are frizzled until
the owner looks like a Soudanese. Yet English women, though
lacking in what we call style, have ﬁne complexions, and shapely
shoulders which they are overfond of exhibiting. Despite this fact,
they lack the air of frivolity that characterizes their sisters across
the Channel. While at the theaters, we have noticed that the
men appear to be weighed down by care, and sit most of the
time lost in thought, quite indifferent to the fair sex. A French
writer has said, "They amuse themselves gloomily, according to
the fashion of their nation.” ‘

Generally, the ﬁrst building visited by the stranger is the
grand old pile, containing the ashes of so many great men and
women,——\Vestminster Abbey. When in 616, King Sebert founded
a church in honor of St. Peter, it was placed west of a Cistercian
Abbey; hence the name, \Vestminster. The present abbey was
built in the 3th century by Henry III. and his son, Edward I.
Canon Farrar has said that Westminster is a “theology in stone."
and that “the prevalent number is three; triple height, triple
length, triple breadth, to remind us of the Trinity." Its struc-
ture is “cruciform to signify the Atonement." “Even the geo-
metrical designs, which lie at the base of its ground plan, are
combinations of the triangle, the circle, and the oval, the symbols
of the Trinity, eternity. and the saintly aureole." Its architecture,
with the exception of the towers and one chapel, is Early English,
with a touch of Norman.

Once within, we forgot the beauties of the church itself in
contemplating the monuments. In the north transept, is that of
Disraeli, Lord Beaconsﬁeld, twice prime minister of England. He
is represented in his robes of office and seems about to address
an invisible audience, so natural is the attitude, so keen and shrewd,
the expression of the clear-cut features. Here, also, side by side,
are Lord Chatham, Sir john Malcolm, and Sir Robert Peel.

