GRANA DA 69

that she must choose between death and dishonor, she ﬂung herself
to the valley below, where her mangled remains were found by the
Christian knight to whom she had been betrothed. This is not
ﬁction, but Spanish history, which abounds in romance.

We reached the Generalife, the summer palace of the Sultans,
by crossing a deep ravine and following a long path shaded by
enormous cypresses. Flowering shrubs ﬁll the spaces between the
trees and form a hedge about six feet high.

Arbors of cypresses. composed of eight or ten trees planted in
a circle, their interlacing tops making a roof and their side branches
trimmed in patterns, form complete specimens of Moorish archi-
tecture.

The Palace itself rises in tiers upon the terraced hillside.
Colonnades connect the suites of rooms and open on one side upon
a court of orange trees; while the waters of the Darro are conducted
through a channel in the center; beyond, is an outer garden. Marble
benches are placed against the stone parapet of this garden—which
bears upon its broad top pots of roses and pansieswand the pave-
ment is laid in mosaic patterns. Nowhere in Granada is this pecul-
iar pavement better illustrated than in front of the Mezquita, where
the architect, Yusuf, was assassinated while at prayer.

As we strolled through the halls, sleeping rooms and courts of
the Generalife, we felt as if the whole place were ﬁlled With
the presence of those who had once lived within its walls. Glancing
into the alcove of a chamber, we seemed to see, reclining on em-
broidered cushions, a radiant creature, gossamer draperies half
concealing, half disclosing, her perfect form, while an ebon-hued
slave waved a fan of peacock feathers lazily to and fro.

The portraits of sixteen Moors in full armor hang in a long
gallery. These, doubtless, are the men who embraced the Chris-
tian faith directly before or after the conquest of Granada, for the
Mohammedans did not at that time permit any representation of
human life.

As we came out, what a sight greeted us! Successive ﬂights
of stone steps lead up the mountain side, each ﬂight ending on a
terrace where a marble fountain sends up ,a ﬂashing stream. The
steps are ﬂanked by thick stone walls about four feet high with

