500 CASTLES AA'I) COLLEGES

Italy, that we had not dined, without macaroni; so here, we never
tire of currant buns.

Guy's Cliffe was our ﬁrst stopping-place. The beautiful manor
house is built on the rocky cliff, over a cave where Guy of war-
wick, returning from one of his martial exploits, sated with victories,
and weary of the world, sought rest and peace in the life of a re-
cluse. It is said that he repaired to the castle daily for three years,
to beg his bread, which he received from the hand of his own wife,
who did not discover his identity. \Vhile mortally ill, he sent his
ring to her by a messenger, but she reached his side only in time
to bid him a last farewell. He was buried in the cave. The
mansion is now inhabited by a nobleman and his family, and there-
fore closed to the public. There is a ﬁne old Saxon Mill not far
away, the wooden wheel now unused. This, with the foaming cas-
cade, and the trees overhanging the river below the house, makes
a delightful picture.

We came all too soon to the picturesque ruins of Kenilworth
Castle, which, ivy-grown and surrounded by holly and hawthorn
trees, is on the site of a fortress once occupied by a Saxon king
named Kenulph, and his son Kenelm. “Worth" is the Saxon word
for dwelling place, and, combined with the king's name or that of
the prince, forms “Kenilworth.”

The castle was built in the reign of Henry 1. During the
Wars of the Roses, it belonged alternately to the different factions,
and suffered accordingly. When Queen Elizabeth presented Kenil-
worth to her favorite, Robert Dudley, Earl of Leicester, he at once
began extensive improvements and his boundless wealth and ﬁne
taste enabled him to transform the estate into a dream of beauty.

When quite young, Dudley had married Amy, the beautiful
daughter of Sir John Robsart, but the marriage did not prove a
happy one. Unscrupulous and with an overmastering ambition, he
permitted no obstacle to lie in his path. Poor Amy stood in the
way of his advancement. Her death occurred, under suspicious
circumstances, in 1560. It was said that she broke her neck by
falling down stairs, but facts were afterwards disclosed which led
to the belief that she was murdered.

Elizabeth made Dudley 21 Knight of the Carter, and in 1564,

