8o NAPLES AJVD THE JIEDITERRAA’EAEV

to side. The orange and lemon corners show the fruit with stems
and leaves attached. Vegetable stalls, with open hampers spilling
out quantities of small red peppers, succulent tomatoes, cucumbers
and fat green beans, interlaced with bunches of young onions, car-
rots and parsley, are arranged with such an eye to harmony of
color as to make one hungry to look at them. There are Lillipu-
tian bakeries hung with great strings of twisted rolls and banked
with loaves of bread and parti-colored cakes. This wealth of good
things is generally presided over by some plump and jolly little
woman, her,rough hair. guiltless of a comb, knotted carelessly, but
artistically, in a big coil at the back of her head, and strings of gay
beads decorating her ample bosom. Hawkers with long sticks of
sealing wax accost the pedestrian with :——"Uu soldo, Szgmn'a.’"* and
Punchinellos fastened to rubber cords bob up and down, drawing
coppers from the pockets of the urchins.

One day we saw a ﬂock of lambs being driven down the street.
their backs and heads decorated, for the Easter festival, with daubs
of red paint. Further on was a wagon ﬁlled With these little crea-
tures, tied by the four legs and hanging head downward from pegs
around the edge of the cart; their feeble bleats were piteous as the
owner jerked them from a nail to display their plumpness to the
prospective buyer. How I did want to throw something at that.
cruel peasant! I thought of the late Mrs. B.. of Hyde Park, and
how she would have made things “hum" if she could have been
there.

If you pass a wig-maker's shop, you will ﬁnd him right in the
window plying his trade, a cheap way of advertising. An inﬁnite
variety of curious scenes constantly greets the eye. Women bring
their washing to the street pump and, placing tubs and boards
directly under the spouts, scrub away, while their next-door neigh—
bor, leaning against it, repeats the latest tidbits of gossip. Lines
of clothes are strung from doorway to_doorway. a remarkable exhi-
bition of legs and sleeves.

We spent a proﬁtable afternoon examining the priceless works
of art contained in that treasure-house of Italian antiquities. the

 

*Only a penny, lady!

