442 PA IBIS

Lachaise, we stopped at an attractive restaurant near the gates,
for our midday meal. On the menu. among the vegetables. I
saw [befits fwis,* and, thinking they would be appetizing. ordered
some. They were brought in smoking hot. but, when I lifted up
a spoonful, there, in the center. was a large bluebottle ﬂy, very
well done indeed. I called the waiter. but. as he was busy. the
proprietor of the establishment came from behind the counter to
see what I wished. I pointed signiﬁcantly to his ﬁyship, where-
upon, mine host, rolling his eyes upward in a deprecating way and
shrugging his shoulders, said plaintively: “It is not my fault.
Madame; it fell from heaven!" Then taking up the spoon. he re-
moved the offender, and walked off with an air which implied that
I had put him to a great deal of trouble.

Guidebooks state that one can make the excursion to Fon-
tainebleau in one day, but it is difﬁcult. \Ve made the attempt,
but were obliged to return to the City without having seen any-
thing of the Forest. which is regarded as the most beautiful in
France. The Palace of Fontainebleau was founded in 1162 by
Louis VII., but rebuilt by Francis 1.. in the 16th century. It has
ﬁve great courts, and it was in one of these, sometimes called the
“Court of Farewells,” that Napoleon, after his abdication. bade
farewell to his Grenadiers, in the memorable words, “Adieu, mm
(Vim/s! ”+ The interior of Fontainebleau seems to me more impos-
ing than that of Versailles. The gallery of Francis 1. and that of
Henry II. are the most magniﬁcent of all the salons. Marie An-
toinette's superb suite of rooms is lavishly decorated and hung with
Beauvais tapestries, the bed being a marvel of elegance and luxury.
The carving of some of the ceilings suggests the work of the Japa-
nese. and is exceedingly well done; as are the sculptures in wood
and stucco. In the gallery of Diana the ceiling and side walls are
covered with representations of hunting scenes in which Diana.
goddess of the chase, is the central ﬁgure. The initial letter of
Napoleon’s name is emblazoned on the crimson velvet of his chair
in the throne room, and the chandelier is of rock crystal. ‘The

 

 

* Green peas. '

1

T“ Farewell. my children!’

