FR 0.1! 0L YJIPIA T0 ROM]; :53

town is built on a rock dividing an inlet into the “Large Sea”
and the “Small Sea.” A great variety of ﬁsh, and ﬁne oysters
are caught in the Small Sea; stakes here and there mark off the
oyster beds. Along the shores are ﬁshermen's huts.

We engaged a carriage and drove through the town, past the
extensive arsenal and naval buildings, to the Villa Beaumont-
Bonelli. It was Sunday, market-day in Tarentum, and the peas-
ants from the neighboring farms were in town, with herds of cattle,
sheep and goats. There was a ﬁne display of harness in a part
of the piazza called the harness market; it seems to be a specialty
of the place. The gardens of the Villa Beaumont-Bonelli are
charming with cypress and rose walks, summer-houses and arbors;
vines are trained from tree to tree, forming a perfect veil of green.

We had selected the Europa Hotel from the list in our guide-
book, as the best in Tarentum, and instructed our driver to take
us there, after leaving the villa. We have been travelling so many
weeks among people who do not understand English, that we have
acquired a careless habit of talking freely to each other, before
any one. So, when our carriage stopped in front of what appeared
to be a third-class hostelry, regardless of a portly gentleman who
was standing in the doorway, I exclaimed to my companionz—“For
goodness' sake, don't let us stop at this horrid-looking place! I am
sure we shall not get a thing ﬁt to eat, and- I am simply famished!”
To my dismay, before she could reply, the gentleman stepped to
the carriage and with an amused smile on his face, said, in our
mother tongue, that he was quite sure we could get “a very good
dinner at the Europa;" he was a guest of the house himself and
knew all about it. He was right. There was a neat table with a
center-piece of raw vegetables cut in the shape of ﬂowers, and our
hunger was appeased with some delicious sweetbreads, macaroni
and preserves; all for two lire. Before going to the station, we
gathered some mussel shells on the beach; they are about eighteen
inches long, and exquisitely tinted with pink and yellow. ,

As we approached Naples, the country became more and
more picturesque. Hamlets are clustered on the terraced mountain
sides, far up deep glens; not an inch of soil is unused, even when the
slopes are nearly perpendicular. At towns along the road, soldiers,

