L 0“?!) 0;"? .479

and slippers. I asked one of the ladies in charge who the chil-
dren were, and she said that they belonged to a mission connected
with the Ragged Schools, and were going to Bushy Park for a
day's outing. Most of them looked old and careworn beyond their
years, but one little creature, with big, ugly shoes, had life enough
for the whole company. She was surely some waif from the dance
halls, for she could not keep her feet still, but amused the by-
standers by executing fancy dances, and the last we saw of her, as
she entered a special train, one leg was poised in the air in true
ballet fashion, and her elﬁsh face was brimming over with enjoy-
ment and anticipation of the day’s delights.

The Palace of Hampton Court was founded by Cardinal VVol-
sey in 1515, and presented by him to King Henry VIII. Later
on, the Stuart line, and also Cromwell, occupied it. The scene
represented in Pope's “Rape of the Lock" occurred here. From
the Thames the palace is imposing, but, not occupying an elevated
position, it loses in dignity when viewed from other directions.

We entered by Anne Boleyn's Gateway, and ascended a stair-
case leading up to the Great Hall, built by Henry VIII. It is 106
ft. in length, 40 ft. in breadth, and 60 ft. in height. Fine tapes-
tries adorn the walls, and the ceiling is in the Perpendicular Gothic
style.

The valuable collection of pictures ﬁlls about twenty rooms.
Here is the “ Triumphal Procession of Caesar" by Mantegna,* a
wonderful painting in distemper; also Sir Peter Lely's “Beauties
of the Court of Charles II."

To the south of the palace, in the Pond Garden, is a Black
Hamburgh grapevine 128 yrs. old. Its stem is thirty-eight inches
in cirCumference, and the branches spread over 2,200 ft. The
annual yield is about 1,200 bunches, each nearly a pound in weight;
most of this fruit goes to Windsor Castle.

The return from Hampton to London was most delightful.
Taking the front seat of a double-decked coach, we drove past
Diana’s Fountain and the Lion Gates, through Bushy Park, on the
way to Richmond. Bushy Park is a royal property of 1,000 acres,

 

 

 

* Italian painter, 1431-1506.

 

