1 40 A TIIEIVS

light procession passed from Athens to the temple during the great
festival celebrating the legend of Demeter, who, while in search of
her daughter, Persephone, abducted by Hades, was hospitably re-
ceived by the King of Eleusis, and in return taught his people
how to till the soil. This ﬁne road is bordered by a hedge of
century plants and shaded by poplars; wild ﬂowers, especially pop-
pies, carpet the spaces between. About a mile beyond the modern
Botanical Gardens, is a grove of hoary olive trees. their twisted
trunks and boughs looking like masses of boa constrictors. One
special tree, whose age and size seem fully to justify the name, is
called “Plato’s olive tree,” and many belieV’e that he sat and taught
beneath it. All the bark is gone, and only a few weather-beaten
branches show signs of life. Traces of aqueducts and of the tomb-—
stones which once lined the road are still visible.

We met some interesting country folk coming into town, and
itinerant cobblers, with sticks across their shoulders loaded with low
shoes, the toe turned up and ﬁnished with a pompon. Donkeys
were plodding along under great four-pocketed panniers ﬁlled with
lemons and oranges.

The convent, which we reached after a two-hours'drive, dates
from 1263 and contains a ﬁne Byzantine mosaic of Christ. The
Sacristan was very attentive, and before we departed, broke a couple
of stalks from a little pot of flowers on the wall and presented to
us the only bit of brightness within the cloister.

I can assure you that we did justice to the delicious fried ﬁsh,
artichokes and spinach awaiting us on our return to the hotel at one
o'clock. The spinach is beaten almost to a powder and mixed with
cream, a combination which is very light and palatable.

After a short siesta, we walked to the Areopagus, or Mars
Hill, so called from the myth that Ares was tried here for murder.
It was the open-air court of the ancient Athenians. where aged
citizens of high standing exercised supreme jurisdiction in cases of
life and death. It is said that the tribunals were held at night, so
that no glance of the eye or motion of the hand might inﬂuence
the judges for or against the accused. From this hill, St. Paul
probably delivered his sermon, found in the seventeenth chapter
of' Acts.

