I 2 2 A THE NS

draperies were of solid gold. The eyes of the ﬁgure were of marble,
painted to look as natural as possible. The value of the metal
used was estimated at forty-four talents* of gold. In times of war
the gold was removed and used, but when prosperity returned, it
was replaced. One hand supported a statue of Victory, six feet
high, while the other rested on a shield. The square of dark-col-
ored stone on which the pedestal rested can still be seen. Michaelis.
in his work on the Parthenon, mentions a raised platform in front
of this statue, on which the victors in the Panathenaean contests
mounted to receive the prizes, Generally golden Chaplets and vases
of olive oil, from the hand of the goddess, as it were.

In 1801, Lord Elgin, the British embassador to Greece, secured
from the government a permit to remove “a few blocks of stone
with inscriptions and ﬁgures." \Vith this ﬂimsy authority, he
quietly, but effectually, secured the pediments, some of the metopes
and the greater part of the Parthenon. frieze and took them to
England. It is said that Lord Elgin vindicated himself of the
charge of vandalism, in a pamphlet published in 1810. However.
England ﬁnally paid the Greek government £36,000 for the mar-
bles and they are now treasured in the British Museum.

Near the north edge of the Acropolis are the ruins of the
Erechtheum, on the site of the ancient temple of Erechtheus. It
was built upon the sacred spot where Athena and Poseidon strove
for the possession of the city. The olive tree which the goddess
caused to spring up, and the cleft made by the trident of the god
in producing the salt spring were shown to worshipers in the
ancient temple. The chamber entered from the east portico was
especially dedicated to Athena, the guardian of the city; the Par-
thenon, to the virgin Athena. The aforesaid chamber contained a
wooden ﬁgure of the goddess, said to have fallen from heaven.
Before this ﬁgure a golden lamp always burned. The most inter‘
esting part of the Erechtheum is the Portico of the Caryatides.
The roof is supported by the graceful forms of six maidens bearing
baskets upon their heads. They are said to represent the maidens
taken captive from their father, the king of Caryae. in Arcadia, be-

AJ — —

 

* .
J£150,000.

