144 FR 0.1! 0L 13101.4 70 ROME

deities. But Mother Earth became angry with Olympia, and,
refusing longer to bear her marvels of architecture, trembled, and
their columns were laid low. Mt. Cronius shook from its mighty
side clay and rocks that buried the splendid treasure-houses. In
after years the rivers, Alpheus and Cladeus, as if pitying the
stricken one, rose and spread a soft mantle of sand over the
broken forms of the temples and later Christian churches.

As early as the ﬁrst part of this century, prominent archaeol—
ogists discussed and even attempted to uncover Olympia, but noth-
ing of any importance was accomplished until 1874. In that year,
a party of Germans. headed by Ernst Curtius secured the right
to excavate. In six winters they succeeded in freeing nearly the
entire district from the sand and clay, which in some places was
twenty feet deep. The most important ﬁnd was the Hermes of
Praxiteles, but other valuable discoveries were made; for Olympia
is second only to Pompeii in interest. from an archaeological point
of view.

Our hotel overlooked the ruins, and after dining, we took guide-
book and map and for ﬁve hours tramped, climbed and crawled
over stones and brush, crushing delicate wild ﬂowers under our
relic huntinor feet. \Vhat a pathetic sight the broken columns,
dismembered capitals and moss- grown pavements but how full of
majestye each separate stone!

The temple erected in honor of Zeus, king of the gods, was
the most important ediﬁce at Olympia; built in the Doric style
and 210% ft. long. The columns, now lying in sections, just as
the earthquake threw them from their bases, were thirty-four and
a ﬁfth feet high and seven and a third feet in diameter. They
were quarried in the neighborhood out of porous stone, a mass of
shell, clay and charcoal that is very brittle, now, from long exposure
to the air. The nave of the cella was paved with black limestone
and Pentelic marble and contained a gold and ivory statue of Zeus,
forty feet high, by I’hidias, and said to have been his best work.
This statue was taken to Constantinople by the Turks, but frag-
ments of its pedestal are still scattered about. Close by. is the
triangular base of the statue of “Nike," by Paeoni‘us, a Thracian
sculptor who lived about 435 B. C.

