346 A"(~"REJ/BERG AA’D THE BLACK FOREST

windows, are portraits of the artists, and the sketches and auto-
graphs of other famous people.

A memorial tablet on the house of John Palm, a bookseller,
records that he was condemned by a court-martial and shot, at
Braunau, by Napoleon's orders in 1806, because he had published
a pamphlet on the “Degradation of Germany," which was not at
all ﬂattering to France.

Although the permanent buildings of Nuremberg appeared
strange to us, the temporary structures on the grounds of the
Exposition did not; for, they are almost the same as some of our
\Vorld's Fair buildings. The walks, too, are bordered with the same
little, colored cups with lighted wicks. \Vhile we were eating an ice
at, a café table, the evening we were there, a family of Germans sat
down beside us. Perceiving that we spoke English, they began to
ask us questions. in our own tongue. Of course, we were delighted,
and spent a pleasant hour. They seemed much surprised when
we told them that the same method of lighting the walks had been
used in Chicago, and one old lady seemed to doubt our veracity,
when we said that our Exposition was about six times as large as
theirs, if not larger. All about, under the trees, are wooden images
of gnomes, their odd, little faces screwed up in all sorts of shapes,
rascality stamped upon every one.

We travelled from Nuremberg to the Black Forest by way of
Carlsruhe, the capital of Baden, where we stayed over night, going
on to Baden—Baden, a watering place of note, the next morning.

After engaging a room at the Hetel Muller, we ordered a car-
riage and span of stout horses, and, with a driver recommended as
reliable, we plunged into the Forest, on our way to Gernsbach.

This section is rich in legends that have inspired poetry and
prose, times without number. I wish I could make you feel the
solitude, solemnity, and mysteriousness of a great forest, where one
rides for hours in the subdued light that, ﬁltering through the tops
of giant firs, and slanting downward, ﬂecks the gray, leaf-strewn
earth with yellow. The roads are perfect and, as there is no
underbrush and the trees are pruned nearly to the top, one can
see for a great distance. As we drove along, we were more and
more impressed with the unusual height and straightness of the trees.

