 

FRY/(512‘ 26 5

We partook of these delicacies in the beautiful cloistered court,
where oleanders and roses ﬁlled the air with their perfume. In
the center is a fountain: beside it grows a splendid cedar, brought
from Lebanon, and the largest magnolia I have ever seen.

The refectory on the ground ﬂoor interested us very much;
there are nine tables, four on a side, and at the upper end, one
for the abbot. They looked most inviting, covered with white
cloths and partly set for the evening meal. The monks are allowed
to have meat, vegetables and confectionery, except on Friday and
Saturday, when only ﬁsh and eggs are permitted. It is the cus-
tom at mealtime to say grace in concert. The abbot recites a
prayer, some one of the scholars, a psalm; then all repeat the
Lord’s Prayer, after which the meal is eaten in silence, while a
novice reads a bible lesson from the pulpit placed high up on one side
of the room. When the repast is ﬁnished, the community give
thanks and retire, the reader for the day dining alone afterwards.
Cleanliness and simplicity abide in this peaceful retreat; the menial
labor is performed entirely by servants.

In the printing ofﬁce, ﬁfteen compositors, printers and book-
binders are employed. Most of the books written by the members
of the order, who are all scholars, are printed in Armenian, though
several works have been brought out in other languages, as this
establishment possesses the type of thirty-ﬁve different alphabets.
A literary review is issued every three months. It would have
done you good to see the expression of delight which brightened
the monks face as Mrs. M. casually mentioned that the Monarch
Book Company had recently published a book on the Armenian ques-
tion, then sadden, as he replied, “Ah, indeed! Here we have not
that privilege. The Turks never permit us to publish our wrongs.”

.There are about eighty members in the order, but they do
not all live at San Lazzaro. Besides their college in Paris, and
the one in Venice, they have schools in Constantinople and Treb-
izond. Armenian youths, who show signs of talent, are intrusted
to their care and receive an education free of charge. They are
destined, upon ﬁnishing the course, which covers a period of
twelve years, to be members of the order and, in consequence,
teachers of their people. \Ve saw a band of about thirty marching

