380 7/1}? HAGUE, AJ/STERDAJI, ArVD DELFT

crowds during the Columbian Exposition. In the corridors are ﬁne
specimens of wood carving and bronzes.

After taking us through the suites of rooms, and telling inter-
esting stories connected with his treasures, the artist invited us to
visit his panorama, the “Beach at Scheveningen," about seven or
eight blocks from the house. This we did, and enjoyed it im-
mensely.

Naturally, after seeing such a splendid representation of the
beach, we were impatient to visit the real one; so we boarded a
car that took us along the “ Old Road," and in less than half an
hour we were standing on the shore of the North Sea at Scheven-
ingen, one of the most fashionable seaside resorts in Europe.
Its season of two months begins July 15th, and closes September
15th. \Ve were told by the head waiter of the hotel, where we
lu'nched on fresh turbot, that all the rooms at the various hotels
were already engaged. The Curhaus with its broad verandas is
the most prominent building and is quite close to the water. The
sea has so steadily encroached upon the land, that it threatens the
Curhaus; so, a great sea wall and promenade, extending for several
miles along the beach, is now in process of construction, and, at
present, spoils the pleasure of those desiring to go to the water's
edge. Beyond the line of grand hotels, whose dining-rooms over-
look the water, were numerous pineal, ﬁshing—boats, drawn up
on the sand or putting out to sea; while, back on the dunes, lay
the village. It was ingulfed several centuries ago, and the old
Gothic church is now half a mile nearer the sea than when
erected. Thirty thousand people, it is said, visit Scheveningen each
season. The sands are as ﬁrm as a ﬂoor and as ﬁne as table
salt. During bathing hours, the beach presents a very gay appear—
ance, being literally covered with wicker chairs shaped like bee-
hives, tents, and portable bath houses drawn by horses.

\V e had great sport in the ﬁsh market with a couple of jolly
ﬁshwives. I wanted to buy one of the ornamental headdresses
that they wore, but the price was too high. A number of storks
are kept in the market, at the public expense; doubtless, because
the bird ﬁgures in the armorial bearings of the city.

\Ve noticed inscriptions over the entrance of some of the city

