I" 01/1; 1 85

style. Nude ﬁgures are disporting in a garden gay with many—
hued blossoms. A winged god descends to claim the Queen of
Flowers, from whose blushing face a zephyr half lifts a veil. The
whole scene is quivering under the blazing sun of midday.

Of the sculpture, I considered “Pour le Drapeau "* the strongest
piece of work. A soldier, mortally wounded, still upholds the shat-
tered ﬂagstaff.

The plans in the architectural exhibit are executed with deli-
cacy and neatness, the subjects being Greek temples or ruins.

The chief pleasure of the afternoon, however, was a walk through
the gardens. ‘We called at one of the studios, and our friends
presented us to M. Lefebvre, a fourth-year “Prix de Rome" man,
engaged upon a colossal group of “Niobel' and her Children." This
modern Niobe is of massive build—such a ﬁgure as could have
borne fourteen children, and not the girlish goddess of the ancient
sculptor. The last two of her boasted treasures lie dead before
her, the arrows of Apollo piercing their tender flesh. In agony of
mind she has sunk on one knee, and with her right hand has torn
from her childless breast the drapery, unconsciously holding it like a
shield above the sweet, dead faces of the little ones, while her head
falls back and tears gush forth from eyes destined to weep forever.

A chubby little ﬁve-year-old boy,—one of the models, lay
asleep on some cushions where he had thrown himself after posing;
his rosy cheeks and rounded limbs betokened the best of health,
although he is a professional and spends most of his days in a
state of nature.

Lefebvre is a little fellow with a dark face and bright, rest-
less eyes. As he movedabout his creation, telling us of the vex-
ations and the difﬁculties he had experienced in arranging the
ﬁgures in a satisfactory and symmetrical group, it was evident that
his whole soul was in his art.

Naturally, our visit to this villa of the Medici recalled to mind
the Cardinal Giovanni, who took the name of Leo X. when he
became pope in 151°, and who was one of the greatest patrons of

 

 

 

 

 

* For the ﬂag.
TApollo slew the fourteen children of Niobe, who scoffed at his mother
because she had only two.

