4,70 l 02"er 01V

ranks next to the cathedral of Milan. Its architecture is really
Gothic, though the details are classic. On each side of the facade
is a bell tower, 222 ft. high; one contains the largest bell in Eng-
land, weighing sixteen tons; the other, the most delightful chimes
I have ever heard—a merry tumbling of sweet sounds, as if each
bell were racing with the others in some mad play.

The interior is rich in construction, but poor in decoration.
Among the notable monuments are those of the Duke of \Velling-
ton, Lord Nelson, and Major General Gordon, who was killed at
Khartoum in 1885.

It is going from the sublime to the ridiculous to take you from
a cathedral to the monkey cage at the “Zoo," but there we went
on Monday. Such rascals as they were, from the hoary-headed
grandpa to the babies! After walking about for an hour, we seated
ourselves on one of the benches which line the roadway. There,
the elephants and camels are led up and down, laden with merry
boys and girls, and squealing babies in their nurses' arms; some
of the more venturesome lads, scorning the comfortable howdah, sit
astride on the animal's neck. I had bought some sponge cakes, on
my way to the “Zoo, ” for a little lunch, and they lay in my lap
in a paper bag that might have contained millinery for aught the
public knew; but one elephant was not deceived. He “sized up"
that package from afar, with his little, twinkling eyes, and scooped
it up from my lap. By the time I had grasped the situation, the
lunch was rapidly disappearing down the throat of the sneak thief.
You should have heard the shouts of the people! On his next trip,
the same elephant poked his trunk into the lap of nearly every
one along his way, in his eagerness to get another tempting morsel.
I only hope the paper did not give him indigestion.

The Zoological Gardens are said to be the ﬁnest in the world,
and occupy a large portion of Regent's Park, which was laid out
during the reign of George III. There are over 2,000 animals
and birds in the collection.

The Parliament Buildings, or new Palace of Westminster, in
the richest Gothic style, cover eight acres on the banks of the
Thames, and are most imposing when viewed from the river.

Upon entering, we were conducted to the Queen's Robing Room,

