24,8 Vlz‘A’l C I?

continue to enslave the hearts of men and add to her almost end-
less train of courtiers. Ah, merely to live in Venice is a joy!
\Vith the smallest of incomes, one can have a room in an old
palace, a coin for the gondolier, another for the macaroni and
twisted roll. It seems as if here one might rest.

The railway from Milan, after passing Fort Malghera, enters
Venice by a bridge two and a third miles in length. In the dis-
tance, the city looked so like a giant raft loaded with fantastic
shapes, that it vamdisappointing to come into an ordinary station.
However, at the exit, all was strange and delightful. A gondola,
rowed by a stalwart boatman standing onthe 150/5/m,46 landed us
at the Piazzetta, adjoining the Piazza San Marco. Here we en-
gaged rooms at a hotel bearing the same name.

The Piazza is like a vast, open-air ballroom and has a ﬁne
pavement of trachyte and marble without a stick or a stone to
interrupt its smooth expanse. It is inclosed on three sides by old
palaces, of which the ground ﬂoors are converted into rafﬂe and
shops, and on the fourth side, by the cathedral of St. Mark and
the Piazzetta. In the late afternoon or evening, the Piazza is
much frequented. Tourists from every country on the globe sit
at little tables in front of Florian's or the Caffe San Marco. Noble
Venetian ladies with aquiline noses and delicately curved lips, in
costumes direct from Paris, promenade the square. There are fat,
old Jews from the Ghetto,+ smoking the long Italian cigars, and
pretty buxom damsels of the middle classes, who, thank Fortune!
have not yet discarded the mantilla or the necklace of corals.

All the world loves the Piazza and all the world admires the
oriental splendor of the Byzantine cathedral of St. Mark that faces
upon it. \Vhen the sunlight falls upon the facade of this edifice,
striking across the ﬁve domes, the bronze horses over the main
portal, and the mosaics, it glows as if set with precious stones.
The church is built chiefly of materials taken by the Venetians
from conquered nations, for the city is a vast storehouse of plunder
incorporated in the churches and palaces.

The effect of the interior, enriched with priceless mosaics, ala-

 

* Covered stern.
T The Jews" quarter.

