42 CAD/Z

laughed when Mrs. M. remarked in a stiﬂed voice that if a caravan
came along going to Chicago, she would take it. \Vhen you see a
rm! caravan you will appreciate the humor in the remark.

Such looking creatures as we were on reaching port, with our
eyes protruding and faces swollen,—but we gathered our belongings
together as best we could and descended into the landing-boat,
manned this time by men, untutored but chivalrous. They assisted
us to reach the custom-house, where the Superintendent, noticing
my pallor, ushered me into his private ofﬁce, while my companion
heroically attended to the baggage alone. Then engaging a cab
for us, he gave the driver the name of the Hetel de France, where we
found excellent accommodations, and after a good night’s rest we
felt as well as ever.

The pride of Cadiz is her cathedral called La Nueva*(1720-
1832). an irregular pile, with the bronze monument of the bishop,
who was instrumental in completing the interior, placed in the plaza+
directly in front of the entrance. Connected with this cathedral
are one hundred and fifty priests, headed. at present. by Bishop
Calvo. The interior of the building is well proportioned. The
high altar, which was presented by Isabella II., is lavishly decorated
with silver and gold. It is placed directly under the dome and
is bathed in a soft heliotrope light produced by the blending of
the purple and red used in the windows of the clear-story}

Another point of interest is the old Capuchin Convent (now
occupied only by custodians), where is treasured the “Marriage of
Saint Catherine," the last picture of Murillo, the master of religious
painting in Spain. He was at work upon this canvas in 1682 when
he fell from the scaffolding and received fatal injuries. It repre-
sents the Virgin holding the infant Jesus, who is placing a ring upon
the ﬁnger of the beautiful and devout St. Catherine, who kneels
before him. During Murillo’s lifetime the strictest laws controlled
the work of artists in Spain. In accordance with these laws the
feet of his Madonnas were never visible and the prescribed colors,

* The New.

T Square.

IAn upper story rising clear above the adjoining parts of a building. some-
times written Clere Story.

 

—-_.—.—

 

