416 PAR/S

As you remember, M. Jean Francois Raﬁaelli, the well known
French artist, has visited America. where I became quite well ac-
quainted with him. One afternoon, we paid a visit to his home
in Paris and were most delightfully entertained. He lives in a
pleasant house about which are some ﬁne old trees and a pretty
garden, a rare thing in a city where land is so valuable. We found
the painter in his studio, looking younger and more truly Parisian
than ever. He presented his daughter, a maiden with the head of
a Greek goddess, and as sweet and modest as a June rosebud.
After a chat about people and art, we were shown into the dining-
room. The walls of this room, and those of the studio, are covered
with linen painted by the artist. in a conventional design. All over
the house are familiar sketches, in oils, water colors, bronze and
plaster, of the characteristic life of Paris. If ever a man was im-
bued with the spirit of his native place it is Raffaelli. Nature has
been more than liberal in her favors to this son of France. Gifted
with a keen perception, he has the power of delineating the ma-
terialism in his countrymen, and yet is spiritual enough to make
one feel, as Millet does, all the poetry in seemingly sordid things.
There was one sketch of an old street sweeper resting on his broom,
his toil-worn hands for the moment idle, while his thoughts seemed
to wander afar off; perhaps, to the time of youth and love, when
life was all before him. As I studied the face, all the unsatisﬁed
longing of early manhood, all the resignation of advanced age
seemed to strive for mastery in the wrinkled visage. Taking up
my autograph album, the artist made a few strokes of the pen
under his name, and lo! there was a woman, her hair blowing
across her face, a Parisian woman; there could be none like her;
she is inimitable!

Raffaelli objects to being called an Impressionist, as he so often
is; neither does he believe in the term, Realist or Idealist. He
afﬁrms that all true artists are both realists and idealists; 'Raphael,
for example, though considered the head of the Idealist School,
was a realist when he painted the “Incendio del Borgo," in the
Vatican. Courbet, who prided himself on his realism, was an
idealist when he said he would paint stones “so as to make them
think." Raffaelli prefers to be called a Characterist, for it requires

