92 .VAPLES AJVD THE .-l/ED/TERRA.NEAN

volumes of steam and smoke would pour out. After this had.
cleared away we could see the blackened rock at the bottom of the
crater.

Then came another long tramp to the new crater on the side
of the Atrio del Cavallo. As one peers over its edge, instead of
a rocky cavern, a surging lake of molten lava is seen.

We reached our carriage after the descent, completely worn
out, but amply repaid for our fatigue by the grandest sight which
we had ever witnessed.

The Italian word for street is via or stma’a; the principal
thoroughfare is sometimes. called the C0750 and the squares, of
which there are many, piazza, the plural of pz'azza; Spanish. plaza;
German, p/atz; French, place.

The cab horses here are so decked out in metal-trimmed har-
ness, rosettes, ribbons, feathers and the like, that we feel as if we
formed part of a triumphal procession, every time we drive out.

One afternoon we engaged a cabriolet with what my companion
calls a “silver-plated pony" and joined the line of swell turn-outs in,
the Villa Nazionale, the fashionable park of Naples, which lies
close to the water’s edge. The display of handsome costumes was
very interesting, though the features of the wearers were, for the
most part, plain; however, the “military” were superb and fully
compensated for the lack of beauty in the women.

The population of Naples, the largest city in Italy, is over
500.000 besides the garrison.

The shops are stocked with coral, cameo and tortoise shell
ornaments, while the lava from Vesuvius is carved into the most
exquisite shapes.

We thought we had seen curious ﬁsh at the \Vorld's Fair, but
those in the Naples Aquarium are far more wonderful. The col-
lection, which occupies a number of rooms and is contained in tanks
with glass fronts, is drawn entirely from the lV‘Iediterranean. It
includes both large and small specimens of the ﬁnny tribe, corals,
seaweeds and mosses. There were four, octopi or devil ﬁsh, and,
as the keeper is susceptible to a fee, we persuaded him to feed
them, that we might see their maneuvers. Accordingly, he placed
an enormous live spider on the end of a long reed, and going to

