236 T/llf RIVIERA {LVD all/[4.4.17

waiter's manner was respectful, when she raised a pair of bleared
eyes and attempted to look angry because the soup was not hot
enough. This incident made us sick at heart. and, if we could
have taken a train from Monte Carlo that night, we would have
done so, without trying to see any more of the place.

After walking about the gardens between the theater and the
public buildings, we decided to enter the Casino and, for the ﬁrst
time in our lives, see a gambling table. Mounting the steps of
the handsome ediﬁce with its columns and statues, we entered a
large hall out of which opens the ofﬁce where each guest presents
a visiting card. Here, we were asked if we wished to enter the
gaming rooms, and upon our acquiescence, received a card of ad-
mission to the "Salles de Jeu." \Vithin the magic portal, which
has opened to admit so many seekers after the ﬁckle goddess
Fortune, is a long salon superbly decorated, and furnished with
three long tables, where we saw a company of men and women
playing roulette. Out of this salon open smaller rooms, where
lrwzlc ct gmzmntc engrossed the attention of the players, and where
the stakes were heavier than in the game of roulette. The people
were as businesslike in their play as if they were bank clerks en-
gaged in routine work; all were quiet and tossed their ﬁve franc pieces
or louis upon the green table with apparent indifference as to the
result. Those who staked the most showed no sign of pleasure
or disappointment at the turn of the wheel. No one spoke to us,
though the (roztpz'crs* glanced up inquisitively now and then, as
we stood back of the players seated at the table. We remained
only about twenty minutes in these rooms, and without having
the slightest desire to stake one penny, left them and went into
the concert-hall, where an orchestra was rendering a program of
classical music. The room was full, and we saw young girls with
their mammas, and many tourists, as well as the usual frequenters
of the place. The roof of the Salle des Fetes is supported by a
row of marble pillars, and there are cushioned divans along the
sides of the room. Here, people promenade between the numbers
of the concert program. The square was lighted brilliantly when

 

-_.______, 7 —»

"" I\Ien who manage the game.

