3o TANG/ER

\Ve have a pleasant room at the Continental Hotel overlooking
the bay, and as I go to the window now thoughts of home and
loved ones bring tears to my eyes. I can see the lights along the
curves of the moonlit shore, the rugged outlines of Spain in the
distance giving strength to the picture. The water laps softly
against the beach, the stillness now and then broken by the
“\Va ha galiba illa Allah,"* the IV‘Iussulman war cry, in the same
mellow tones that we used to hear on the Midway.

Our ﬁrst dinner in Africa was “good but not very ﬁllin’," as
a little boy once remarked. It was served in the usual {cl/216
d’lzotci' style, in numerous courses, by native servants, their black
skins looking like polished ebony against the snowy whiteness of
linen gowns and turbans.

One of the courses was a cake fried in oil. It resembled a
plain fritter and is called Ming in Arabic. It is eaten without
sauce of any kind and was not at all palatable to us. Many stalls
in the market place are hung with iron kettles where natives pre—
pare these cakes for the caravans, just as itinerant bakers sell
waffles or pancakes from their wagons; but the sight of a hideous
Moor mixing the batter with his ﬁngers and then tossing it from
hand to hand prior to its ﬁnal ﬂing into the sizzling oil is not
stimulating to the American appetite, though the camel drivers
devour them with a gusto born of the desert.

The ﬁrst evening our party attended a native concert that
was not at all bad. The musicians sat upon the ﬂoor in rows and
between numbers smoked tiny pipes ﬁlled with lms/zecs/z, a kind
of Opium. It is obtained by boiling the leaves and ﬂowers of a
native hemp with a little butter. _

The following morning we each mounted a diminutive donkey,
and, accompanied by a tall digniﬁed-looking guide by the name of
Mesmudi, we proceeded to do the town.

My animal was led by a boy whose entire English vocabulary
was comprised in the words “all right,” spoken interrogatively each
time I gave a half suppressed shriek. which was frequent, as the
saddle persisted in turning somersaults. Tangier streets run up

 

*There is no conqueror but God.
TPublic dining table in a hotel.

