1. ON!) ON 465

famous ruby owned by the Black Prince, and worn by Henry V. on
his helmet at the battle of Agincourt, the Regalia did not seem to
me as ﬁne as the Austrian or Saxon display. The vessels of gold
are not to be compared to the exquisite works of Benvenuto Cel-
lini, in Italy, and yet, those collections are protected only by a
glass case, and a guard.

\Nhen we came away, a company of Grenadiers, or Queen’s
Foot Guards were drilling in the courtyard, headed by a band dis-
coursing martial music. They made a splendid appearance in their
scarlet uniforms. The Grenadiers are the First Regiment, and wear
scarlet tips at the side of their helmets and a scarlet band on their
forage caps.

The Coldstream Guards are the Second Regiment, and wear a
white tip and band, while the Third, or Scots Guard, wear a plaid,
band in the forage cap, but no tip; otherwise, we are told, the
uniform of the three regiments is the same.

That evening, we attended the last performance of the season,
at the Lyceum Theater. Mr. Forbes Robertson and Mrs. Patrick
Campbell were the stars. They gave single acts from ﬁve of their
principal plays, so that we saw Mrs. Campbell in a variety of
characters, all of which she personated admirably. She is a lithe,
delicate-looking woman, with a beautiful, riant face, and an ex-
tremely sympathetic manner. Mr. Robertson is a talented and
ﬁnished actor, and bids fair to stand at the head of his profession.
As the guests invited to the royal wedding are still in town, the
theater was ﬁlled with fashionable people, making a gay and varied
scene.

The Parthenon Sculptures, in the British Museum, are nearly
black, now, while the Parthenon itself is not badly discolored, and,
where the marble has been recently broken, almost white.v How
we wish we could transport these marvellous carvings to the old
temple on the Acropolis! They belong to Greece rather than to
England, and, some day, we trust they will ,be replaced on the
structure that, without them, seems forsaken and desolate.

England has her faults, but she is a splendid country, and I
bow in homage to her thrift, and, most of all, to her hero-worship.

It seems to me that there is no more imposing monument than
30

