49+ CASTLES AND COLLEGES

The facade of the palace, 325 ft. in length, is unlike anything
we have seen in England. The architecture may be styled “Ir-
regular, with classic details." A broad drive leads up to the
entrance, which has a portico with huge Corinthian columns. To
the right and left, are curving colonnades, something like those
before St. Peter's, in Rome; they terminate in towers. Between
the columns are large, green tubs containing tropical shrubs and
orange trees.

\Vhen we stepped into the hall, there came over us a sense
of emptiness and melancholy, that the visit to other parts of the
palace only increased. The rooms are lofty, and, save now and
then an antique piece of furniture, the appointments are modern
and unsuitable. The only place that seemed homelike was a small
music room, where some servants were ﬁlling vases with white
sweet peas and maidenhair ferns.

The library, 183 ft. in length, is ﬁnished in white with gold
tracing, the walls being panelled in carved wood; on one side, is a
magniﬁcent, new pipe organ. Four polar bearskins are spread upon
the ﬂoor. At one end stands a marble statue of Queen Anne;
at the other, a bust of the great duke, but the splendid room looks
ghostly and unfurnished, and the bookcases, once holding 80.000
volumes, are empty. It was dismantled by the late duke, who sold
the books and most of the pictures and furniture, to pay his debts.

\Vhile standing in the grand drawing-room, we saw the ducal
pair at luncheon, in another apartment. The Duchess was attired
in a negligee of pale blue satin and white lace. The servants in
attendance wore powdered wigs and knee breeches. Later, the
Duke came out into a hall, where we happened to be, and spoke
to one of the servants. He has a bright, shrewd face. and we
imagine that under his care. Blenheim will recover some of its
lost prestige.

In one of the drawing-rooms, there is a portrait of the present
duchess by Carolus Duran, the eminent French portrait painter.
He has painted her as a slip of a girl in ﬂoating tulle, without a
single jewel, yet the poise of her head and the ﬁrm grasp of the
wand in her right hand. as she descends a ﬂight of steps, give her

an air belonging only to those who are to the “manner born."

