GRANADA 71

women, who pull the rope by turns every ﬁfteen minutes until
about four in the morning. The Darro rushes down from the moun—
tains and is carried by canals and fountains all through the city,
down the sides of the streets and paths into the gardens; every-
where branches of this beneﬁcent stream are seen. The Genil
meets it in the lower part of the city, and there the women gather
on the banks to wash their linen.

One evening, when we were preparing to write our home letters,
Seﬁor Carmona. in his picturesque broad-brimmed hat and black
cape, knocked at our door and asked us if we did not want to go
to the top of the Torre de la Vela, hear the bell and see Granada
by moonlight. Donning our hats and wraps, we sped away to the
tower. A loud knock on the heavy iron door summoned one of the
keepers, who carried in her hand a quaint little brass lamp fed
with olive oil, such as is commonly used in Andalusia. \V e groped
our way up the stairs by this dim light and came out on the roof
and beneath the old bell.

An iron cross marks the spot where the Christian ﬂag was ﬁrst
planted.

Behind us was the long range of the Sierra Nevadas, their
snowy mantles silvered with the light of a full moon. Below, in
the city, each roof was as clearly deﬁned, each narrow street as
light, as "if the sun shone down upon it, instead of Luna. Soon
the bell of a distant church pealed forth. Seﬁor Carmona put his
ﬁnger to his lips; then, deep and sweet came the tones of the old
cathedral bell and then, boom! boom! the great iron tongue above
us swung back and forth, ﬁlling the air with a perfect ecstasy of
sound. It is said that the maiden, who rings this bell on the second
day of January, will be married before the year is out, so, naturally,
there is a great rush for the bell on that particular day. Then
came the walk back under the trees, with the moonlight casting
shadows of the great elms across the roadway.

Seﬁor Carmona is a goldsmith and a descendant of a famous
family of goldsmiths who have lived for several hundred years on
the hill of the Alhambra. As he had spent so much time with us,
we were beginning to feel anxious about the price of his services,
for we had had several experiences with guides; so, at table last

