264 I var/c1;

from the Turks. The Republic offered them, as an asylum, this
deserted island with its crumbling buildings. The monks gladly
accepted it and set to work. The monastery was completed by
the founder, Mekhithar, in 1740, and a printing establishment was
started. Mekhithar was a model of industry, and the books brought
out were calculated to promote intellectuality and piety, especially
among the Armenians, to whom instructive works were sent. The
Abbot died. nine years later, and his body lies at the foot of the
high altar of the chapel. From that time, the monks took the
name of Mekhitharists.

As the steel prow of our gondola reached the marble stairs
leading to the door of the monastery, a porter appeared and
politely ushered us into a parlor curiously furnished and hung with
oil paintings. In a moment, a monk with an intellectual face en—
tered. and, addressing us in French, asked if we would like to see
the monastery.

He first led us into the museum, where there is a mummy
presented by the Khedive of Egypt. It is said to be 3,500 years
old and lies in a cedar cofﬁn inclosed in glass. The body, with
the exception of the head, is wrapped in 1,000 yds. of linen cloth,
decorated on the outside with beadwork. The brain, which has
been removed and dried, lies upon the breast, and the face is un-
covered, showing the teeth.

At a table in the library. Lord Byron, the poet, studied the
Armenian language; our guide showed, with great satisfaction, his
pen, ink-stand, knife and some autograph letters. We paused, also,
before a ﬁne bust of the founder. '

\Vhen we passed out, we were asked to write our names in
the Visitors’ Book. I added, in the space headed “Remarks," the
fact that I was connected with a club of women that had given
its mite to the fund raised to send Miss Clara Barton to the relief
of the Armenians. You would have been pleased with the result,
I am sure. The monk’s face glowed with pleasure and he imme-
diately asked for my card; then he stepped to a door and, calling
another brother, gave an order. Presently, a tray was brought in,
upon which were two dainty little glasses containing a wonderful
cordial called Arusir, and a confection made of red rose leaves.

