266 l'l:‘.\'/(‘/:’

through the corridors, headed by the instructors; they all had re-
markably intelligent faces, but looked very sad; doubtless. on account
of the recent sufferings of their countrymen.

Upon our departure. we were presented with souvenirs in the
shape of little, colored photographs of the island, and a small
pamphlet, giving the history of the order, accompanied by a beau-
tiful bouquet of roses. I can assure you that we glided away
from the hospitable doorway with many pleasant thoughts of the
monks of San Lazzaro.

Before leaving Italy, I would like to tell you more of the
people. When one stays so short a time in a country and has no
friends among the upper classes, the best that one can do is to
study the poor, and to do that, it is necessary to mingle with
them. \Vhile travelling, we have been well rewarded for the slight
unpleasantness of sitting on uncushioned seats and beside peasants
with grimy hands and faces. The poor are seldom tidy, but, in
happy contrast to their neglect of personal appearance, they are
warm-hearted, and generous to the stranger. For example, one old
woman, with her luncheon tied up in a kerchief, poked over the
dry bread and sausage and ﬁshed out two little cakes, evidently
a luxury to her. and holding them out triumphantly, urged us to
accept them. She seemed quite disappointed when we. in our
gentlest manner, assured her that we had plenty to eat in our
lunch-box. Presently. three men, one old and lame, and a young
woman entered the car; it was charming to see the deference
shown to the older man of the party. The three squeezed them-
selves with others into one seat, in order that he of the crutches
might lie down at full length. though. judging from his corpulence
and healthy complexion, he was quite as able to sit up as the
others.

The peasants never enter a car, or leave it, without politely
saluting the occupants, and always seem delighted when I venture
to ask questions, in Italian, about the surrounding country.

\Ve have been in the city four blissful days, and to-night we
return to Milan, on our way to Switzerland. It is a short time
to spend in Venice, but we must be content.

As I write, I can hear the voices of a band of singers sere-

