 

 

 

 

I YEA-EVA A 1V1) B (IDA PES 7' 3 I 3

fiery spirit, and, under their spell, the musical mysteries of that
wondrous brain were unravelled. The world enjoys life the better,
because he gave it so much that is harmonious to the ear, and in
the words of Celia Thaxterz—

“ If God speaks anywhere, in any voice,
To us his creatures, surely here and now
\Ve hear him, while the great chords seem to bow
Our heads, and all the symphony's breathless

noise

Breaks over us, with challenge to our souls!
Beethoven‘s music! From the mountain peaks
The strong, divine, compelling thunder rolls;”

Baron Nathaniel von Rothschild lives in the city in a ﬁne man-
sion surrounded by a garden, but his greenhouses and park are in
Dobling, a suburb. He charges an admission fee of fifty kreutzers,
half a ﬂorin, for the privilege of looking at his treasures, though
he is rich enough to let all the world take a penny from his coffers.
There are half a hundred greenhouses, the fancy ones being re-
arranged, weekly. On the porch of the head gardener's house are
fastened several grotesque tree trunks, one grown in the shape of
a woman's head, another, a satyr’s. In one of the orchid houses,
we saw the Aristolochia Grandiﬂora, fourteen inches in length, the
largest ﬂower known. A fern house contains a bed of moss four
feet high and twenty feet square, on which are scattered gloxinias,
begonias and purple violets. Above it is a swinging aquarium with
an inner globe in which were two canaries hopping about on a
twig, while a goldﬁsh swam between their glass cage and the outer
globe. As there is little air in the inner compartment. the birds
are only kept there two hours at a time.

In the fruit houses are pots containing strawberry plants, on
each of which there were from three to seven berries, some of
them two inches in diameter. Luscious peaches,’ cherries and plums
hung from dwarf trees, and great clusters of grapes swung from
the roof and tempted us to break the tenth commandment.

A steam tram took us to Schénbrunn, the imperial park and
castle, once the hunting-lodge of the Emperor Matthias. Miles of

