284 XIV/SS CIT/ES .4.\'[) .l/( ’.\'/C'//

coverlet, one is startled into thinking that Gabriel must have blown
his horn.

As we journeyed from Thun to Berne. on Sunday afternoon
last, we encountered many peasants, who were taking little pleasure
trips. It was refreshing to see their sinewy, well-developed figures
and clear complexions. The Swiss, though not handsome, are a
thrifty race and proverbially honest. \Ve became so accustomed to
bargaining in Italy, that, when pricing an ornament of carved
wood in a shop one day, I asked the saleswoman her lowest terms.
She seemed quite insulted, and said that they did not have two
prices.

The capital stands on a peninsula formed by the river
Aare, and its situation is especially beautiful, for more mountain
ranges are visible than from any other city in Switzerland. It is
the seat of a university and boasts ﬁne museums and libraries.
Magniﬁcent avenues of chestnut, maple and ash trees traverse the
old part of Berne, and the river is spanned by fine bridges, the
most notable being the Nydeck Bridge, which has the largest
stone arch in the world. with a span of 16.1r ft. The second stories
of the shops and houses are supported by stone arches and extend
over the sidewalk. Such arcades are most comfortable on hot or
wet days, though the shops are dark.

Grotesque fountains are characteristic of Berne, the most
curious of them being the “Bagpiper,” the "()gre" and the "lab-
ringen." The "Ogre” represents a Jew in the act of devouring a
fat baby, while several others are tucked in his wallet; this fountain
is said to commemorate the murder of a Christian child, in 1287.
Itis to the third, dating from 1542, that we turned with the
greatest interest. The bear is the heraldic emblem of Berne, so
it shows Bruin in full armor with shield, sword and dagger, the
banner of Berthold von Zéihringen, the founder of the city, in his
right paw. The design of the bear is seen everywhere in Berne;
the shops abound in wooden ones, and there has been a pit of
live bears near the Nydeck Bridge since the 15th century.

The most remarkable of the old city gates left standing is the
clock tower, with a calendar clock. “\Vhenever it strikes the hour
a procession of little bears comes out and describes a circle around

