FROJ/ 0L l'J/PIA TO ROJIE 151

family, moving. The father led the way. driving a number of cattle
and sheep. and a drove of pigs with sharp noses like the wild boars
in picture-books; he was assisted by a couple of boys with crooks.
The grandmother and youngest child came next seated on a pile of
bedding. on the back of a superannuated horse; the old woman was
leading a mule loaded with household goods, on top of which were
four chickens tied down by the legs. squawking and cackling. The
grandfather. with the wife and the other children. plodded along
behind.

After eating a luncheon of hard-boiled eggs. Hymettus honey
and dry bread. we started for the little station. While trudging
beside the Cladaus. a peasant, who was standing with his wife in
the door of a cottage on a hill. spied us, and immediately came
down. inviting us to visit his house and have some mastir/m. \Ve
were sorry to decline. as even our cordial “evcharisto"* did not
drive away the cloud of disappointment from his brow. The
country people are very hospitable, and it is almost an affront to
refuse their invitations, but we were pressed for time and had not
the courage to try mastic/m again. There was an eccentric-looking
German in our car. going back to Patras; he wore huge gold rings
on both foreﬁngers and looked so wise that we put him down as
an archaeologist at once.

Imagine our delight, when, upon boarding the steamer for
Brindisi, we found the Professor and his party on board. It was
quite a reunion, and Doctor C.. who had come to see us off,
seemed quite despondent when the steamer moved away from the
dock and left him behind. We were equally sorry to say fare-
well. for he had proved a kind friend in assisting us to understand
his country. The lady and her daughter. with whom we had talked
among the ruins at Olympia, were among the passengers; the mother
is an Austrian baroness.

Again. we experienced the sensations of nausea, until the sight
of water. even in a tumbler. made us ill. We supposed our tortures
were over when the steward aroused us. at one o'clock on the
second morning. announcing that the ship was nearing port; but.

_.._ .. _ __—_ —__ . —_— — i ————-—..—.—.—__—

 

 

* Thank you.

un—

