JVAPLES 141'er THE JIEDITERRAJVEAJV 89

Resina, the next town, is built on the lava beds that cover
ancient Herculaneum. There some little boys, ragged, but happy,
ran beside the carriage, two of them playing on sticks, ﬁddle fashion.
One of the sticks was notched and had a nail in it with some disks
of tin slung on the nail. These primitive instruments accompanied
very prettily the musical voices of the rest of the little troop. I
offered the leader a few coppers for his ﬁddle and he went off with
them as gay as a lark. A girl was lowering a basket from a third
story balcony to receive some vegetables for which she was bar-
gaining in shrill tones with a street vender below. Women were
putting the ﬁnishing touches to their morning toilets, on the walks
in front of their doorsteps, combing one another’s hair, and also
removing the inhabitants therefrom, a common sight here. Now and
then the open gate of some aristocrat's villa would reveal glimpses
of lovely gardens within, ﬁlled with fountains, statuary and flowers.

After an hour’s drive we reached a road bordered on the left
with a wall made of blocks of lava and inclosing vineyards and
orchards of olive and almond trees; the latter in blossom and very
pretty indeed; but, oh! the view! as we made the steep ascent.
The men of our party walked up the steepest inclines to lighten
the load for the horses, who were straining every muscle.

Away to the north lie the Apennines, from whose frozen heights
a cold wind swept, and penetrated to our very bones; while to the
south, in joyous contrast,

“Calm Capri waits,
Her sapphire gates
Beguiling to her bright estates.”

The bay of Naples glittered as if set with myriads of precious stones,
while village after village appeared, as the landscape lengthened.
About us were acres of lava. \Ve imagined that we could see
faces, animals and shells in the fantastic formations of this hardened
ﬂood.

A short stop was made to rest the horses at a queer little
hostelry, where wine, including the celebrated Larrz'mm Christi}

 

_.__.__—-—-—-

—* Tears of Christ.

