478 Lax-Dav

In Kensington Gardens, adjacent to Hyde Park, is the archi-
tectural, memorial monument erected by the Queen and her people
to Albert, Prince Consort. It is of granite, bronze and marble,
the groups of ﬁgures at the four corners of the base being espe—
cially ﬁne.

In the early part of the 17th century, Hthe taverns of Lon-
don held a very important place. The Boar's Head in Great
Eastcheap was an inn of Shakespeare’s own day, and the char-
acters he introduces into his plays are really his own contem-
poraries." At the London Tavern, formerly King’s Head, Queen
Elizabeth took her ﬁrst meal after being liberated from the Tower.
On Bishopgate Street Within, near its junction with Threadneedle
Street, is a restaurant, once one of the ﬁnest houses in the city and
occupied by the Duke of Gloucester, afterward Richard III. It is
called Crosby Hall and is mentioned by Shakespeare. “At the
Mermaid Ben Jonson may be supposed to have had such rivals as
Shakespeare, Raleigh, Beaumont, Fletcher, Carew, Donne, Cotton,
and Selden, but at the Devil in Fleet Street, where he started
the Apollo Club, he was Omnipotent.”

Fleet Street to-day is a sober thoroughfare ﬁlled with shops,
but at every turn in the central part of London, one is brought
face to'face with its history, in which great men long dead, and
the women who inﬂuenced them, played such an important part.
In our admiration of the city of to-day, and in the excitement of
viewing strange scenes and customs, we must not forget to honor
those to whom honor is due.‘

Early yesterday morning, we started for W'aterloo Station on
our way to Hampton Court, the largest royal palace in Great
Britain; it is about an hour’s ride from London. While we were
waiting for the train, a long line of children from six to twelve
years old, each with a green ticket labelled “Fresh Air Fund "
about the neck, began filing into the waiting room. All were
dressed in what was plainly cast-off clothing; one little girl had
on a very long, black skirt and a blue silk basque, made for a
woman of thirty, belted to her little ﬁgure with a soiled, pink rib-
bon; a wide lace collar completed the costume. Others were old
velvet or silk dresses, embroidered stockings with holes in the heels,

