74 GRANADA

Boabdil advances to meet them, the keys of Granada in his hand,
while numbers of unhappy-looking Moors follow him.

In the sacristy is a large cabinet, which, for a consideration,
the Sacristan opened. There was the crown which Isabella wore,
a simple gold one, without setting of any kind; the very golden
casket from which she took her jewels to give to Columbus; her
scepter; Ferdinand’s sword, and Cardinal Mendoza's crimson robe.

Before we left, a party of tourists tried to bribe the Sacristan
to take them down into the vault, but he refused. Senor Carmona
informed us that, since he was well known, we were admitted as
a special favor, and he added proudly, “Yo soy Ecﬂaﬁol.” He
afterward said that the cathedral authorities would not admit ordi-
nary tourists into the vault for fear of their molesting the remains.
\Ve are told that European countries have suffered much from
the vandalism of relic—hunters, and therefore we do not wonder at
such vigilance.

The cathedral and many of the buildings here are enriched
with native marbles from the Sierra Nevadas. One kind, of a ﬂame
color, shading to a delicate pink, is especially beautiful.

At the Carthusian convent'l' our carriage was so beset by beg-
gars that it seemed at ﬁrst as if we would be unable to alight;
however, by loosening our purse-strings, we managed to struggle
through the crowd of watery-eyed old men and whining women and
gain the entrance.

A priest led us into a corridor hung with very badly painted
pictures of saints undergoing martyrdom, the sight of which is
enough to curdle one's blood. There are saints stretched on grid-
irons, wasting over slow ﬁres, and saints being carefully dismembered,
while their persecutors look on with apparent enjoyment. To my
mind. the only excuse for tolerating such pictures is their antiquity.

On the wall of the refectory a cross is painted so cleverly that
it deceives the observer into thinking that it is of wood. The
priest afﬁrmed that birds had been seen to ﬂy through the open
windows and try to light upon it.

The doors and clothes-presses of the sacristy are gorgeously

 

:1: ul am a Spaniard.H

T Suppressed in 1836.

