0.4.9 77. ES A N!) COL /. £01.19 497

Queen Elizabeth and Queen Victoria, contains some ﬁne pictures,
and is hung with a sumptuous piece of 17th century tapestry from
Brussels. An odd. little leather trunk with brass mountings, once
used by Queen Anne, stands beside the bed.

In the library we saw-a buffet carved from a majestic oak
which grew near Kenilworth Castle. It was a wedding present
from the county to the late earl, on the occasion of his mar-
ﬁage,in 1852.

The family are now travelling, so we were permitted to enter
their private apartments. From the windows of the exquisite bou-
doir of the Countess, where priceless mosaic tables and bric-a-brac
delight the eye, we looked out upon the banks of the Avon, shaded
by lofty cedars of Lebanon, and ﬂower gardens, where peacocks
were strutting up and down the paths, or spreading their gorgeous
tails to the sun, as they sat upon the top of the broad walls.

On a knoll stands the conservatory built to receive that famous
work of art, “The \Varwick Vase.” It was discovered at the bottom
of a pool at Hadrian’s Villa, near Tivoli, Italy, and purchased at
once by one of the earls of \Varwick, who placed it here. It is
of pure white marble, magniﬁcently carved, and has a capacity of
163 gallons. The rim is incircled by a grapevine. laden with fruit,
which also forms the handles. About the bowl is the skin of a
panther with head and claws attached, which, with a vine-wreathed
thyrsus and other emblems of Bacchus. completes the design.

\Ve did not need to glance over the pages of a volume of
Felicia Hemans' poems, lying on a table in the boudoir, to recall
her appropriate lines on the “Homes of England ":-——

“The stately homes of England,
How beautiful they stand.
Amidst their tall ancestral trees,
O'er all the pleasant land!
The deer across their greensward bound
Through shade and sunny gleam,
And the swan glides past them with the sound
0f some rejoicing stream.”

Kenilworth is easily reached by carriage from \Varwick, so
one afternoon we engaged a landau and bowled along the country

