 

 

CAD/Z 43

blue and white, for the mantle and draperies were always employed.
His flesh tints are delightfully warm and soft, eliciting the remark
from one critic, that—“Against the dark gray background his
faces looked as if painted in blood and milk." Murillo can be
studied best in the gallery at Seville, where, we are told, his three
distinct styles are represented. A picture of St. Francis, executed
in Murillo’s best manner, hangs on a side-wall of the same room
and made a very deep impression upon my mind,—it approached
so nearly the perfection of painting.

St. Francis, born at Assisi, Italy, in 1182, was the founder of
the Franciscan order. At the age of twenty-ﬁve he became a monk,
leading a life of the utmost poverty and purity. One day at his
devotions near Mt. Averno, he prayed that he might have visible
proof of the love of Christ by being permitted to bear some mark
of his mortal suffering; in this ecstasy of prayer it is said that he
had a vision of Glory, and immediately the slzlgmata or wounds of
the nails appeared upon his hands and feet. The fact that these
marks were actually found upon his body leads us to remember that
similar phenomena have been produced, so it is claimed, by phy-
sicians who exercised certain inﬂuences upon hysterical patients in
the hospitals of France.

The picture mentioned above shows the monk at prayer; the
form of the Cruciﬁed One faintly outlined in the shadows of the cell;
the face of the saint upturned with the most touching expression
of love mingled with sweet humility; while a divine light radiates
from the vision and envelops the ﬁgure of the suppliant.

As we had expressed a desire, when leaving the hotel, to visit
the Plaza de Toros, or bull ring, our guide conducted us from the
convent across a great square to a circular building, and, after ar-
ranging the fee with a man in charge, gained us admittance. When
we entered the arena, inclosed by tiers of seats ranged one above
the other, we were impressed by its size. A grand box is placed
on one side for the President of the festival and directly opposite,
one for the owners of the animals. To the right is the entrance
for bulls, to the left, for horses. Our guide informed us that the
bulls were brought to the stalls in groups of six the night previous
to the ﬁght. were not fed, and that, from that time on, the

