226 PISA ALVD FLO/(EA’CE

with red roses, white carnations. and blue bachelor's buttons. The
occupants looked as aristocratic as any of the others, if they did
come from a democratic country. However, all were quite outdone
in splendor by an American bicycle ﬁrm, whose Roman chariot,
driven by a man in Continental costume, was truly a sight. \Ve
saw the professor, whom we met in Greece, and his party in line,
and taking a big yellow rose from my belt I flung it into the carriage.
They looked up and waved their hands, and there was a general
laugh all about us. It seemed to me more like a carnival, after I
had thrown something.

The Ponte Vecchio, the oldest bridge in Florence, is lined with
shops, and above them is a covered passage leading from the Uﬁizi
Gallery on the right bank of the Arno to the Pitti Palace on the
left. For centuries. the goldsmiths, including Cellini, have plied
their trade upon this bridge. '

The Pitti Palace was erected by Luca Pitti in 1440, to exceed
in grandeur, if possible, anything built by his rivals, the Medici,
who, a few years later, obtained possession of it. Built of huge
blocks of stone it suggests a prison. The apartments are hung
with brocades and richly furnished; a prz'c-dz'm* in the king's bed-
room is decorated with garlands of fruit, made of jasper, onyx, lapis
lazuli, and jade.

The Pitti gallery is sumptuously ﬁtted up and contains many
gems of painting; among them, the “Madonna of the Chair," by
Raphael, and the “ Concert." by Giorgionexl-

The masterpieces of Cellini are kept in the Silver Room. As
we looked into the glass cases, about which guards are stationed, we
realized the magniﬁcence of the massive gold services hammered
out by this renowned goldsmith. for the Medici princes. There is
a basin in repoussé,1’ representing the abduction of Proserpine.
Pluto has taken her in his arms, while in the boat bearing them
to Hades, where, as hiswife, she afterward reigned. The fervor
of his embrace and her gentle submission, are wonderfully wrought.
In the old myth, Pluto, god of darkness, loved Proserpine as, well

 

* Kneeling desk, for prayers.
T Italian artist of the 15th century.
I Formed in relief.

 

