420 PA R15

terns or rows, live lobsters placed symmetrically on masses of brown
seaweed, while their boiled brethren were trussed and set up as
stiff as knights in armor. At the vegetable stalls, the same love
of harmony was apparent. The potatoes, polished until they shone,
were lighted up by a dash of color, such as a pile of tomatoes with
leaves attached. or a pyramid of carrots or radishes. At the fruit
stands, rosy-cheeked peaches lay in dewy grape leaves, side by
side with pale greengages and purple damson plums. Raspberries,
each one with its hull attached, were heaped next to a mound of
hazelnuts in their outer shells. Pyramids of roses, Garden pinks
and lilies ﬁlled the morning air with sweet odors, but, prettiest of
all were the market girls from the country, fresh and bright—eyed,
a gladsome relief from the fashionable dames with laced waists and-
powdered faces. ' ‘

As we were walking leisurely along between the banks of
ﬂowers, I suddenly felt a light blow on the back of my head and
then heard a merry laugh. Turning, I met the roguish eyes of a
boy who had struck me with a bunch of ferns. The market girls
seemed to enjoy our surprise and amusement, immensely.

As we walked back from the market, we crossed .the Seine
and visited the Cathedral of Notre‘Dame. There is something
mysterious and fascinating about this building, with its massive
towers and quaint sculptures. The stone monsters, that perch on
the balustrade above the third story, seem to grin and blink with
an almost malevolent air. Twice this renowned church has been
desecrated by the mob' that, during the Revolution, was lost to all
sense of decency.

The castle-prison of the Bastille was destroyed by the people
on July 14th, 1789, at the beginning of the Revolution. VVlth the
cry, “Down with the Bastille!” a ﬁerce mob, bent on destruction,
and gathering strength in numbers as it swept through the streets,
incircled the moat and, notwithstanding the defenses of a strong
wall and the guns, soon accomplished their object. The prison,
commanded by De Launay, was guarded by less than 150 men.
The provisions were limited, and the supply of water was soon cut
off. After a heroic defense, De Launay capitulated, with the under-
standing that the garrison should be protected. But, as is generally

