6+ 013.4334 DA

But. “Open Sesame!" the door ﬂew back at the touch of our guide’s
stick and we were in fairyland.

Above us was the blue vault of heaven; below, and before us a
mirror of water, surrounded by a low hedge of myrtles and ﬁlled
with beautiful ﬁsh; about us were graceful columns supporting arches,
the spaces above perforated by carvings in stucco and the walls cov-
ered by the same material in geometrical and ﬂoral designs. Court
succeeds court in this Elysium, all different, yet all in perfect har-
mony. Martlets ﬂit about among the arches and vaulted roofs, and
are held sacred, as they are said to be the birds that plucked the
thorns from the crown of our Saviour when he hung upon the cross.

All over the building is written by the ﬁnger of the sculptor
the same Mohammedan war cry that we heard in Morocco:—“\Va
ha ghaliba illa Allahl"————“There is no Conqueror but God.” This
famous sentence was uttered by the Sultan Ibn-l-ahmar in answer
to the greeting of his subjects, who saluted him as “Conqueror”
when he returned victorious from battle.

From this Court of the Myrtles we passed to the Hall of the
Ambassadors. Its magniﬁcent inlaid ceiling, seventy-ﬁve feet in
height, is of dark carved wood, once adorned with brilliant colors,
now faded. This room, which was the grand reception hall and
contained the throne of the Sultan, occupies all of the Tower
of Comares. Here Columbus received from Isabella the jewels
which made possible his voyage of discovery. Outside, moss and
ivy cling to the thick walls, the trailing vines swaying softly in the
perfumed air. _

The largest court is the famous Court of the Lions. The foun-
tain in the center'has a basin supported by the ﬁgures of twelve
marble lions. Four channels in the marble pavement connect this
fountain with smaller ones in adjoining apartments. One hundred
and twenty-eight pillars of Macael* marble, once of dazzling white-
ness, now an ivory tint, form a colonnade around this court. As
we stood within it one evening, while the moonlight ﬂooded the
fountain and streamed through the ﬁligree arches, bringing out in
strong relief the shadows cast by the pillars upon the pavement, it

—— _

 

* A marble quarry in Spain.

