GRA 4‘24 014 63

the landscape. At my left, away across La Vega,* rises the lofty
range of the Sierra Nevadas, the snow-capped peaks outlined against
the bluest of skies. All over the plain, in the distance, are little
white towns and at the foot of the Alhambra hill lies Granada,
its red tiled roofs covering whitewashed walls.

Across the glen to my right is the Generalife. the summer
villa of the Moorish sovereigns. The area occupied by the fort-
ress and palace of the Alhambra is about thirty-ﬁve acres, in-
closed by a strong wall, broken by towers. The fortress was
sometimes garrisoned by forty thousand men in thewtime of the
Moors.

Now, I am down in the roadway in front of the Gate of
Justice. Above, sway the interlacing elms. A pretty little gypsy
girl, who has been posing for an artist near by, has left him and
is dancing for us. Her hair is ﬂying, her eyes sparkling, and, as
she curves her arms and points her little toes, she would do credit
to Carmencita'f herself. ‘

Desbitt, an artist from the Edinburgh Academy of Fine Arts,
was this morning painting a scene in the little street where we are
staying, and we stood some minutes watching him work. This is
surely the paradise of artists, for here are the rich colors and the
quaint effects they all seek.

Under the guidance of our host, Seﬁor Carmona, we have visited
the Alhambra, the Generalife and other points of interest in Gra-
nada. How can I picture to you the glories of the Alhambra? a
spot both familiar and dear to us through the tales of Washington
Irving. But you will wish to know my impressions, so I will
describe the palace brieﬂy, and may the shades of the Sultans for-
give my presumption!

Passing around the Renaissance palace of Charles V., we found
ourselves before an iron door opening into a low, unpretentious
building. It was the Alhambra, the celebrated palace of the Moorish
kings. The exterior was built in this simple style in order to avert
the Evil Eye, which the~l\’Ioors believe threatens the prosperous.

 

*The plain.
TCelebrated Spanish dancer.

