52 SEVILLE

Schaus, for ﬁfty pounds. by an unknown person. Afterwards it was
restored to its place in the canvas.

On Sunday we attended mass in the cathedral. The ﬂoors
are of stone, and during the elevation of the Host, or consecrated
wafer, when every one is expected to show great devotion, I was
careful to kneel only on one knee, as I had taken a severe cold the
day before. Immediately, I felt a heavy hand upon my shoulder,
which forced me down on the other knee. Looking up, I met the
disapproving gaze of one of the priests, who from the rear had
noticed my seeming lack of respect. No talking or walking about
is permitted during service in the Spanish churches, and the people
are to be respected for this rule, which is often violated elsewhere.
There are no seats in the cathedral; consequently those who wish
to sit during a portion of the service bring folding chairs with them,
or rent stools from a woman who keeps a stock in the vestibule.

As it is the custom in Seville to promenade the streets in the
early evening, we took this opportunity to study the people. Many
of the women are beautiful, but as it is the Lenten season there is
much sameness in costume—nearly all are dressed in black, with
lace mantillas. and their only ornament is a bright ﬂower in the hair.
The men are tall, with pale olive complexions, ﬂashing black eyes,
heavy hair and mustaches. They wear capes fully six yards around.
generally lined with scarlet and draped about their shoulders in the
most artistic fashion; upon their heads are black sombreros.*

To show how courteous the Spaniards are; we asked one
gentleman the way to the postoﬂice, when instead of indicating the
direction by word or gesture, he made a sweeping bow and mo-
tioned to us to follow him, walking eight blocks out of his way to
bring us to the place, where, with another polite obeisance, he left us.

Most of the dwellings have little iron balconies, such as one
sees in the Creole quarter in New Orleans, and the seﬁoritas lean
over the twisted railings and chat with friends in the street below.

Two buildings of great interest to strangers are the Alcazar or
Royal Palace of the Moors and the House of Pilate. The former,
excelled in beauty only by the Alhambra of Granada, occupies

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

* Broad soft hat.

