A’APLES AJVD THE .l/ED/TERRAA’EAZV 85

stones by the heavy wheels of chariots are in some cases four inches
deep. Great ﬂat stepping-stones lie in the roadway, far enough
apart for wheels to pass between them.

Some of the mosaic ﬂoors are still preserved, as are marble
tables, basins of fountains and broken pieces of statuary; while
the exquisite frescoes. especially those of the ruin termed the “New
House,” and the stucco reliefs of the public baths, are sources of
never-ending delight.

Of the places of amusement, the smaller or Tragic Theater,
which dates from 75 B. C., is in the best condition. It seated 1500
persons.

Near the dwelling of Sallust, the noted historian, is a public
bakehouse, with extensive ovens and mills for grinding corn.

A fuller's establishment contained four tubs for fulling the
cloth which was afterward hung from a gallery to dry.

It would be impossible to describe in a limited space the
temples, Basilica" and Formula of which enough remains to give
the visitor a fair idea of their former dignity.

,In our enthusiasm, we people the empty streets and voiceless
dwellings from the pages of Bulwer Lytton's “Last Days of
Pompeii. ” Again there are sounds of revelry about the hospitable
board of Glaucus, the Athenian, and Nydia pauses beside a foun-
tain, the lashes of her sightless eyes lying dark against the pallor
of her cheek.

On the following Saturday, we were entertained while at dinner
in the Bz’rrerz'a Gambrz'mcs, a ﬁne restaurant in the city, by the
airs of a handsome young ofﬁcer of the King's Guards. He was
attired in pearl gray pantaloons, black coat with velvet collar and
cuffs braided with silver, cavalry boots with spurs, heavy sword,
black cap and gray military cloak. He evidently recognized that we
were foreigners and thought he would show his importance. Find-
ing fault with each dish of the several courses he had ordered, he
kept the two waiters racing from table to kitchen in order to ﬁnd
something with which to tempt his appetite. After each outburst

 

 

.— f —— __ _._—_

* The law court of the ancients.
T A market place, generally surrounded by public buildings and where
orations were delivered to the people.

 

 

