496 ~ C4 577. ES AND COLLEGES

gether on the bridge over the Avon and looked at the grand old
towers, the embattled walls and the wide, deep moat, now grass-
grown, we felt more than ever before that there is no majesty so
impressive, so soul-stirring, as that of a great monument of archi-
tecture, fraught with a history like that of \Varwick.

From the lodge the approach to the castle is hewn, for more
than a hundred yards, through solid rock, now covered with the
most wonderful lichens and overhung with thick shrubbery. When
one emerges from this avenue of green, he ﬁnds himself at the
edge of the moat, over which is an arch where the drawbridge
formerly swung out; beyond, is the great gate. There, the huge,
machicolated towers of the castle loom above one, like giants. That
on the right is called “ Guy's Tower," after the champion, Guy of
Warwick, around whose career many legends cluster. It was
erected in 1310, by Thomas, Lord Beauchamp, and is 128 ft.
high; its walls are ten feet thick. Through the openings, the be—
sieged could throw down sharp stones and molten lead upon the
heads of the besiegers below. In the deep dungeons of Caesar's
Tower, which is older by two centuries, are curious inscriptions
scratched on the wall by prisoners of war.

Entering the castle, we stood in speechless admiration, for
here was realized our dream of a lordly hall. On the walls amid
branching antlers and other trophies of the chase, were spears,
swords and guns, as well as colors that had been through the
Crimean \Var. Along the sides of the hall stood figures clad in
the armor of earls long dead. The oaken chests, chairs and tables
looked as if intended for a race of giants. while, in a corner, was a
huge iron porridge pot, and the tilting pole, sword and armor of
Guy of \Varwick. That he was nine feet high is a tale one does
not doubt, upon lifting his twenty-pound sword, or gazing at- the
ﬂesh fork, which he is supposed to have used in eating. \Ve took
in our hands the mace of Richard Nevile, the “king-maker" and
“king—breaker." It lay on a table, above which was a curious
shield, incircled by Scottish swords. It is wrought in silver and
was once borne by Charles Edward, the Pretender, whose tomb is
in St. Peter’s.

The state bedroom, which has been occupied by Queen Anne,

