254 WEI/C]?

Paolo Veronese. an Italian artist of the 16th century. painted
sacred compositions in a secular style which was both luxurious
and reﬁned. He could not conceive any one in simple robes, but
put silks and jewels upon the saints, as if they were people of
fashion; even the blue robe of the Saviour, in some pictures, is of
rich material. Both in his works and in those of Tintoretto, the
Doges were always introduced, but the seeming incongruity is for-
gotten in one's enjoyment of the perfect painting. Ruskin says,
“You will in no other way enter so deeply into the heart of the
Venice of the 15th and 16th centuries, as by studying the senti-
ments expressed in these very paintings of Veronese, for she loved
pomp and splendor, * * * beauty and wealth, and with it all,
she loved her saints and her sovereign, and could never separate
them. * * * To be the sovereign was to be in close com-
munion with God, and to be appointed by him, * * * and we
must study art as we do history, for the feeling of the times, for
art is history made beautiful.”

From the Hall of the Senate, to the sessions of which the
senators, in early times, were especially invited, we passed to the
Hall of the Council of Ten. This council was elected by the
Grand Council. and, with the Doge, judged a certain class of
offenders. Before its tribunal, only, the cause of the defendant
could not be pleaded by any of his connections; but, as the laws
of the Republic required that each prisoner should be allowed a
defender. two lawyers were hired by the government to attend to
the needs of poor prisoners.

In the Hall of the Three Chiefs of the Council, there is a
small cabinet in the wall; a slit in the back of it communicates with
the antechamber, where it was formerly covered by a lion's head
of marble, into the mouth of which documents with secret infor-
mation for the Council were inserted, a severe penalty being
attached to a false denunciation.

The Great Council was the governing body to which belonged
only the nobility. i. e., those whose names were inscribed in the
Golden Book of Descent and who had attained the age of twenty
years. In electing its members, the Council used silver and gold
ballots. If, when his name was called, the candidate drew a gold

