-VC'REJIBERG A-\"D TflE BLACK FOREST 357

several blocks, and, at last, found the needful article, and a very
obliging young man spent a full half hour folding and sealing the
waterproof paper, for such, “Voxline” proved to be. After his ex-
traordinary efforts, I timidly asked his charge. He said, one mark
and ﬁfty pfennigs; then he produced three formidable, printed
sheets, declarations to the different customhouses through which
that wretched little box must pass. When these had been prop-
erly ﬁlled out, the parcel weighed, and an address blank prepared,
mourning that about an hour and a half of our precious time had
been wasted. we returned to the postofﬁce and again presented the
parcel, with the invoice, to the august person at the desk. Turn-
ing the package over several times, glancing critically at each seal,
he permitted a clerk to weigh it, to see if the weight exactly
corresponded with the description, and then announced that there
must be a receipted bill sent with it. This he kindly made out
for me, and, after exacting a fee of four marks, ﬁfty pfennigs, said
that was all. I departed, a sadder, but wiser woman. The costly
souvenir is on its way to America. \Vhat the duties will be, there,
I dare not even think! Ionly advise that, if it reaches you safely,
you put it under a glass dome and label it “Adelaide’s Folly.”

The most imposing ruin in Germany is the old castle of Heidel-
berg, where we st0pped for a few hours on our way to Mayence.
It was built between 1294 and 1319, and was blown up by the
French, in r689. It surely must be more beautiful in its decay
than in its completeness, for the ivy runs at will over the molder-
ing walls; ﬂowering shrubs and graceful ferns ﬁll the broad, dry
moat, and magnificent old trees, some of them of the rarest species
brought from far away lands, lift their leafy heads above the crum-
bling walls and arches. The outer walls are quite plain, all the
decorations being on the facade toward the castle yard, where, in
niches between the windows, are life-size statues, in full armor, of
Charlemagne and many of the Counts Palatine.

In the collar, is the famous Heidelberg tun, the largest cask
in Europe; it is ’made of oak, without hoops, and its capacity is
49,000 gallons. A wooden ﬁgure of Perkeo, a court jester, stands
near by, a funny little fellow, with a bright red wig, holding an
old clock. \Vhen asked the time of day, the jester was in the

