54 SEVILLE

the site of the residence of the Roman Prater and was rebuilt in
Moorish style in the 10th and 11th centuries. Here lived Pedro
the Cruel with the beautiful Maria de Padilla. Here he murdered
in cold blood his illegitimate brother, the Master of Santiago, whose
death was avenged six years later by his own brother, who stabbed
Pedro to the heart. Maria de Padilla, who died shortly before her
husband's death, was buried with the queens in the Royal Chapel,
for Pedro had publicly acknowledged her as his lawful wife. and
the church had sanctioned the marriage.

A grand court is called Las Doncellas,* for here. from the
maidens who passed in review before him, the Moorish sovereign
chose his wives. The Hall of the Ambassadors is glorious with.
mosaic'floors, columns of marble and walls covered with stucco
carved in lace-like designs. In one corner the pavement is stained
with the blood of the murdered Master of Santiago.

The House of Pilate, a reproduction of the one in Jerusalem,
Was built in the 15th century by the ﬁrst Marquis of Tarifa on his
return from Palestine. The walls of the Praetorium'l' are covered
half way up to the ceiling with splendid (Isa/405.1 A certain table
was pointed out to us as an exact copy of the one on which were
counted the thirty pieces of silver paid to Judas Iscariot.

We regretted that the cigar factory was closed for repairs,
especially as the opera of Carmen had stimulated our curiosity to
see the place where the heroine earned her daily bread. Tobacco
is the principal export of Seville and 4. 500 hands are employed in
the royal factory alone. Olive oil is shipped yearly in large quan-
tities to foreign countries. also quicksilver from the Almaden mines.

A park, called Las Delicias, || extends along the river bank, where
the fashionable people drive and walk after the sun has set.

Elaborate preparations are being made all over the city for the '
Easter festival. Holy week begins on Monday next, but the week
following, with its processions. bull-ﬁghts and theatrical perform-
ances will doubtless be all the gayer by contrast.

 

 

* The maidens.
T The hall of the guards.
I Iridescent tiles.

H The delights.

