426 PAR/S

shop, and they are deliriously happy. Parisian anger lasts but a
moment. I have seen two cabmen ﬂy at each other as if about to
indulge in ﬁsticuffs over some disputed point; but. in a moment,
the war of words would be over, and they would pass on amid
the laughter of the bystanders, who dearly love a row. The people,
always impulsive, jealous of their rights, yet have a wholesome
respect for the law; a policeman does not need to argue; his com-
mands are obeyed, and, no matter how great the crush of carriages
or pedestrians, all are managed so skillfully and with so little fuss
that one is ﬁlled with admiration.

One evening about six o’clock, as we were going to our hotel,
we saw four young men and women abreast, skipping down the
center of one of the principal streets, their arms locked about each
other, kicking up their heels, and singing at the top of their lungs.
\Ve wondered what Chicago people would think, if such a thing
should occur on State Street. After all, is it not refreshing to ﬁnd
a place where people who must live in the city can let off some of
the pent-up steam, and not feel obliged to bottle up their emotions
for fear of disturbing the peace?

The Louvre is probably the best-known of all the art galleries
in the world. The foundations of this vast palace, standing between
the Rue de Rivoli and the Seine, were laid by Francis 1.. and the
building was continued by subsequent monarchs. In the Louvre,
Margaret of Valois was married to the King of Navarre, afterwards
Henry IV. of France. Five days later, August 24th, 1572, the
horrible massacre of the Huguenots, instigated by the infamous
Catherine de Médicis, took place, the signal being given from the
palace. The greater part of the vast pile has been used as a
museum, since 1793, and is open to the public, free of charge.
Nearly every artist of note is represented in this treasure—house of
statuary, paintings and curios.

Of all the marbles imbodying the beauty, grace and nobility
of womanhood, nonecan surpass the Venus de Milo. Discovered
in 1820 by a peasant on the island of Melos, it was purchased by
the French, and installed in a room by itself in the Louvre. This
room is the last of a long suite, and, as one enters it, the ﬁgure
of the goddess is seen standing out against a crimson background.

