58 CORDO m

a city of pillars, for nearly a thousand monoliths* still remain of
the original twelve hundred. The variety of marbles composing the
columns is fairly bewildering. They are twelve feet in height, hewn
out of jasper, porphyry and other precious materials, and divide the
mosque into twenty-nine aisles one way and nineteen the other.
Upon them is supported a double tier of Moorish arches.

There is a heptagonal chapel on one side, with a roof composed
of a single block of white marble carved in the form of a shell. A
path has been worn in the stone ﬂoor by the feet of pilgrims, who
here fulﬁlled their vow and obtained the blessing usually granted at
Mecca. The exterior of this chapel is ornamented with rare mosaics
sent from Constantinople. They still glitter as freshly as if set
yesterday, and are considered by many artists to be the ﬁnest in
the world.

The Mak-surah, where the sultan prayed on Fridays, was for-
merly paved with pure silver and decorated with gold and precious
stones.

Imagine this labyrinth lighted, as it was in the past, by 4,700
perfumed lamps and you will have a faint idea of what must have
been the enchantment of the scene. '

The Spaniards did their best to destroy the beauty of this
structure by raising the roof of the central portion and inserting a
high altar, choir and chapel. When Charles V. returned to Cordova
and saw this change he rebuked the authorities of the cathedral, say-
ing:——“You have built here what could have been erected as well any-
where else, and you have destroyed what was unique in the world."

Leaving the mosque, we walked through a number of narrow
streets, until we came to a flaw where cadets were at drill. On
one side of the square was the old Royal Palace. One wing, sur-
mounted by two serrated+ towers, is used as a prison. Mere slits
in the wall serve as windows. Adjacent to, this building, and
directly under its stone towers, is a garden ﬁlled with date, palm.
orange and lemon trees, the latter loaded with fruit. Climbing
roses ﬁll the air with their perfume. and sparkling waters gush
through an opening in one of the old stone walls into the baths

 

 

* A pillar cut from a single stone.
1' Notched on the edge.

