ROA/IE I77

trained his sons to follow it, that successive generations working
at the same trade might develop artisans that should be a credit
to the city. Then, a woman was content to spin, weave and cook,
by day, and, in the evening, fasten a rose in the folds of her neck-
erchief. to win a smile from husband or sweetheart.

\Vhen we are disposed to criticise the popes or other digni-
taries for taxing the people in order to rear enduring monuments
of architecture, it is well to remember the vast number of persons
thus furnished with work, which is the salvation of the poor. They
do not want the charity of the powerful or rich, but opportunities
for honest labor. If the rich could realize this, and would spend
their gains, instead of hoarding them for heirs to squabble over, we
should have no bankrupt countries, no hard times, and our cities
would increase in. beauty as well as in size. Large sums of money
are necessary for the development of art, and one cause of its
decadence is the small demand for true works of art. Once. people
sought out and encouraged men of genius. Had it not been for
their rich patrons, we should probably never have heard of Michael
Angelo or Raphael.

No city in the world is so rich as Rome in places of historic
interest, and nowhere is the fact more apparent than in the
Roman Forum. It was once the principal meeting-place of the
people, adorned with temples, triumphal arches and columns, and
surrounded by shops. Councils of state were held in its basilicas,
and orations delivered from its rostra. Processions wound along
the sacred way which crossed it near the round temple where vestal
virgins fed the ﬂame on the altar of their goddess. A blue-coated
ofﬁcial guards the entrance to the Forum, and for a lira grants
the privilege of visiting the ruins so well known to every student
of Roman history.

After passing the three remaining columns of the temple of
the twin gods, Castor and Pollux, we stepped upon the pavement
of the Basilica Julia, named for Caesar's daughter. The central
part, where tribunals were held, is of African and Phr rgian* mar-
bles. On close examination. circles can be seen, cut into the now

 

 

* From Phrygia in Asia Minor.
12

