304 V l E A’A” A .4 3"!) B U114 [’55 T

After engaging rooms at the Hetel \Vandl, near the Graben,*
we drove to the American Consulate, to make some inquiries about
our trip into Hungary. The consul. Mr. Judd, is very pleasant
and attentive to his countrymen. He had secured a box at the
Volks Theater for that evening, to entertain a gentleman and his
wife from New York, and asked us to join the party; an invitation
which we were glad to accept. He then escorted us to the ofﬁce
of the Cunard Steamship Co., and assisted in securing our return
passage on the Umbria.

That day, we made a tour of the great Ring Strasse, a cir-
cular street 186 ft. wide. With the Franz josef quay, it surrounds
the inner city and marks the line of the old ramparts. From an
architectural point of view, the Ring Strasse is, perhaps, the ﬁnest
street in Europe. Here. is the Gothic Votive Church, erected in
commemoration of the Emperor's escape from assassination. in
1853; the University; the Hofburg Theater; the Gothic Town
Hall, costing 15,000,000. ﬂorinsxl and the magniﬁcent Houses of
Parliament. The latter were designed in the Greek style by Han-
sen, whose work in Athens we so much admired. The superb
peristyle is supported by twenty-four monoliths of marble and
adorned with a frieze representing historical events, in fresco. Bronze
quadrigzei and marble statues complete the decorations of the
wings.

The Maria Theresa Platz, a square dedicated to Austria's
illustrious empress, opens upon the Ring Strasse and presents an
imposing sight. In the center is her bronze and marble monument,
forty-three feet in height. No Austrian sovereign has ever been so
well beloved as this high-minded woman, who reigned forty-one
years. Facing the Platz are the Royal Museums; the one on the
west, devoted to natural history, the one on the east, to art. \Ve
are pleased to see so many American specimens in the Natural
History Museum; among them is an enormous meteor from Ten-
nessee; also, the ﬁnest collection of Aztec idols (one, of jade) extant.

 

7 ________— _ V 7 4777 7 ._.-——_——__ A," __

 

* Important business street.
T About forty cents.
IChariot drawn by four horses abreast.

