428 PAR/S

Among the large paintings that line the picture gallery, two
comparatively small ones seem to “sing out, " as an artist would say.
They are Leonardo da Vinci's “Mona Lisa,” whose magnetic gaze
seems to follow one about the room, and the “Laughing Girl," by
Frans Hals, the Dutch portrait painter (1584-1666). Mona Lisa was
the wife of Leonardo’s friend, Francesco Giocondo, and, in this por—
trait it is said that the artist imbodied all he considered most beau-
tiful in woman. He worked upon it for four years, painting and
repainting, never feeling that it was complete. Very attractive also
is the “Broken Pitcher," showing the delicate coloring, the tender
modelling of Greuze. Murillo's masterpiece, the “Immaculate Con-
ception," hangs in Le Salon Carré,* where the chief treasures are
collected.

No ﬁner schools of art exist at the present day than are
found in Paris, the most prominent, doubtless, being the Ecole des
Beaux Arts. Thousands of students, from all over the world, come
here, annually, to avail themselves of its splendid opportunities.
The greater number live near the school, in the section known as
the Latin Quarter, which has been so admirably described by Du
Maurier, and others. There is an art atmosphere in Paris, impos-
sible elsewhere.

Of course, we went to see the Gobelin tapestries. Long ago,
in the 15th century, Jean Gobelin, a dyer, set up a modest estab-
lishment in Paris and began to weave tapestries. By the 17th
century, the manufactory had become so famous that it was pur-
chased and enlarged by the government. The tapestries are never
sold, but are reserved for the decoration of public buildings, or
presented to foreign courts and persons of high rank.

\Ve saw the artists at work. The warp is strung on upright
frames, before which the weaver stands. The design is stamped
on the warp, as for embroidery, and the water color picture, which is
to be copied, hangs directly before the weaver. On his right, he has
a collection of hand shuttles, long pieces of wood, round at one
end where the yarn is wound, and pointed at the other. Glancing
backward at his design, he selects a color, and, with an automatic

 

 

* The Square Hall.

