FR 01:! 01. i'.-1IP/.4 TO R 0.1/1; 1 5 5

of the ceilings in the state apartments; they were covered with
splendid frescoes and hung with chandeliers of Venetian glass.
Colossal gilded ﬁgures stand forth in relief from the panels of the
side walls; tables of lapis lazuli and petriﬁed wood, basins of alabaster
and vases of porcelain rest upon mosaic ﬂoors. Passing through
the king's dressing-room, we glanced in a mirror and saw reﬂected
such tanned and sunburned faces that we retired, “immejit.”

The gardens are so extensive that it takes several hours to
give them even a cursory glance; the terrace below the cascade
is fully two miles from the palace. Groups of statuary break the
fall of the waters, and splendid fountains toss their spray into the
air, which is fragrant with roses and lilies.

The road to Santa Maria di Capua Vetere would delight a
bicycler's heart; it is perfect. Beyond the shade trees, on either
side, lie farms, which look as though they had been laid out by a
landscape gardener, so symmetrical are the rows of grain, the vine-
yards and the orchards. The customhouse ofﬁcers at Capua did
not quite like to permit us to enter the town without opening our
baggage, which was piled up in the carriage. However, as I as-
sured them that we would take the train to Rome, immediately after
visiting the amphitheater, they reluctantly allowed us to proceed.

At one time, Capua was the largest city in Italy, except Rome.
It was founded by the Etruscans, a race now extinct. The amphi-
theater, dating from the ﬁrst century B. C., is of travertine,* and
said to be second in size to the Colosseum, only. But two of the
eighty entrance arches are standing. Beneath the arena measuring
eighty-three by forty-nine yards is a network of underground pas-
sages, galleries for the use of gladiators and dens for wild beasts.
Tunnels led from the latter to cages, which were hoisted by pulleys
to the arena above. We made out the name. “Caesar,” in an in-
scription upon a broken block of marble lying on the ground.

A long wait at the station gave us ample time to re-read a
packet 'of precious letters from the dear ones at home, and to
make entries in our neglected notebooks.

 

 

"‘ A white semi-crystalline limestone.

