1c 0.1/15 . 195

was the noble woman that Michael Angelo so loved and revered.
We wonder, as we look on the placid, uninteresting face, what
qualities she could have possessed. to inspire such a passion in the
breast of a man who could create so sublime a work as the statue
of Moses.

In the room used on the occasion of papal visits, a ﬁne portrait
of the present pontiff, Leo XIII., hangs over the throne which
is turned to the wall, signifying that it is intended for his ex-
clusive use.

The Palatine is the hill whereon Romulus and Remus-l were
found by the shepherd Faustulus. The ancient city of Roma
Quadrata+ was built here, and fragments of its walls have been
discovered. During the Republican period, private dwellings graced
its slopes. and later it was the seat of the emperors. .Augustus
was born here, and, after the battle of Actium, nearly covered the
hill with his magniﬁcent palace. He was reigning at the time of
the birth of Christ. Tiberius built an extensive mansion opposite
to that of his predecessor, but the extravagant Nero found this
hill of the kings altogether too small for him. and so built his
Golden House upon the Esquiline, whence the gardens extended to
the Palatine.

As we mounted the hill, to the right we found a ﬂight of
wooden steps leading to a grove of ﬁne oaks, on the site of the‘
Palace of Tiberius, beyond which are the remains of the house of
Livia. She was a Roman lady who divorced her ﬁrst husband,
the father of Tiberius, in order to marry Augustus. The walls
are decorated with garlands of ﬂowers and fruit still in good con-
dition.

The most interesting part of the ruins is the palace of the
Flavian emperors. The taé/z'mmz used as a throne-room is 39 by
49 yds. in dimensions, and contains, besides the alcove where the
throne stood, six side niches with huge pedestals, once supporting
statues. Beyond is the peristyle, a large garden, once surrounded
by a colonnade; upon this opened the triclinium, where the diners
reclined on couches running around a table, often arranged in the

_ I ——-—-

 

* Reputed founders of Rome.
l“ Square Rome.

