PAR/S 413

One evening, the omnibus took us up to Montmartre, past the
old cemetery, and down a broad avenue where nightly turn the
huge, red sails of the Moulin Rouge,* one of the popular dance
halls; a mill that grinds out all the sweetness and innocence of
the youth that enter its doors.

we have taken our meals at many different restaurants during
the three weeks that we have been in Paris, and have enjoyed the
French cooking, which is supposed to be unexcelled; but we prefer
the Dutch. In Holland, we found more appetizing food than in
any other country. The other day we dined at a modest little
establishment, where the price for dinner is ﬁxed at two francs.
\Ve were permitted to choose from the menu, and, of the side
dishes, selected one of chicken, with a very high-sounding name.
Imagine our consternation, when there was placed before us a slice of
toast on which were the head, comb, and yellow feet of a rooster.
\Vhen we recovered from our astonishment, we had a hearty laugh,
for they looked so comical. \Vhat there was to eat on the head
and claws is still a mystery, as you may be sure that the dish
went back to the kitchen, untouched.

In order to observe the manner of serving in one of the best
Parisian restaurants, we took dinner one day at the Cafe de la
Paix, connected with the Grand Hetel. I can assure you that we
left with a greater respect for American modes of living than ever.
The table appointments did not equal ours, nor was the meal as
well cooked. in our estimation. \Vhen the roast was served, a
waiter wheeled a small stand, upon which it was placed, close to
our table and sliced the meat, thick or thin, rare or well done, as
we desired. The prices are exorbitant at such grand establish-
ments, and, if one dares to give the waiter a moderate fee, he gen-
erally stares at it, and then at the donor, and, after waiting a
moment to see if is to be enlarged, walks off with an air of dis-
dain, and without a word of thanks.

An American is amazed to see how the French treat the
“Staff of Life. " The bread is baked in loaves about three feet
long. and sold by weight. In delivering it to the families in an

 

 

* Red Mill.

