GIBRAL TAR 25

A couple of English soldiers curbed their horses to chat with
a pretty Spanish girl, a lace mantilla about her rounded throat,
the point fastened coquettishly to the crown of her head.

In one open doorway an Egyptian sat making ﬁligree* silver
ornaments, in another a Turk surrounded by queer bits of pottery
and brass—presenting quite an Oriental picture.

Reaching the hotel after this interesting but rather warm tramp
we were shown into a cool, quiet room, with whitewashed walls
and plain but comfortable furniture.

Luncheon was followed by a drive, the coachman being a red-
headed son of the Emerald Isle. The way that little cart rattled
up and down the roughly paved streets was exhilarating; now tak-
ing us to the bank to draw both English and Spanish money on our
letters of credit, then to the steamer ofﬁce to have the stop-over
tickets recorded.

After the business was attended to, we called upon the American
Consul, Mr. Sprague, to whom we presented our greatest treasure,
a personal letter from the Secretary of State, introducing us to
American ministers and consuls abroad.

We had a pleasant call and were given the information we
' sought. 1We wished to know if it were safe to travel in Spain at
that time, having been told that the Spaniards keenly resented the
sympathy expressed by Americans in general with Cubans in their
rebellion against the mother country. He assured us that the
animosity, so much talked of in our daily papers, was largely im-
aginary; that no matter how deep the resentment Spaniards might
feel toward the men of our country, they were always courteous
and gallant to ladies, and that we might go anywhere in Spain
with more real safety than at home. ' a:

Mr. Sprague has held his ofﬁce for forty-two years, succeeding
his father. He is a ﬁne looking old gentleman with foreign man-
ners, and lives in a Spanish house with a court in the center ﬁlled

with tall palms.
The Alameda'l- is a perfect jungle of trees, shrubs and blossom-

L__

__———-—-—

*Ornamental work in gold or silver wire.

1' Public gardens.

