82 A'A P1. ES .4 .170 T H E 111E D! T E R R A .‘VEA 1V

an orange. The rolls were a special Easter delicacy; they had an
egg in the shell baked in their coils and were so hot with pepper
as to burn our tongues at every mouthful. After visiting the baker
and the grocer, where we bought enough provisions for a lunch, we
tucked ourselves up in the carriage robes and prepared to enjoy
the drive.

The cabman was evidently proud of us, for, in a loud voice he
informed several of his friends that he was going to drive the two
“Americane”* to Pompeii, and nearly knocked down and drove
over everything 0n the streets, as he lashed the sturdy little nag to
a still faster trot. The route took us through a section where the
poor of Naples live and along a country road which passes through
out-lying villages.

If you have ever read Italian stories by Ouida, or “Romola”
by George Eliot, you will remember descriptions of just such street
scenes as we witnessed. Time seems to have wrought no changes,
and the people work and trade as in bygone days; the same merry,
careless, happy-go-lucky creatures as then.

One sees men and boys pushing barrows, on which are placed
boards containing loaves of bread dough, on their way to the bake-
house. Old women sit on the corners, with heaps of chestnuts, or
melon seeds, a national confection, in front of them, or 'display
squares of painted canvas, sugar lambs and colored eggs, for Easter
week. All along the streets, on boxes or planks, are stacks of bread
for sale, exposed to the dust, regardless of microbes. Tubs‘ con-
taining dozens of little brown wicker baskets ﬁlled with soft creamy
cheese stand out in front of the meat markets; and everywhere, on
donkeys, in windows and on the sidewalks. is garlic, that detestable
article of food the odor of which the tourist never escapes, from
the time of leaving the Narrows.

The men of Naples are generally swarthy, with black hair;
but brown hair and eyes seem to predominate among the women;
though they are so tanned that, at ﬁrst, they seem like brunettes.
Among the better classes, the hair is worn in pompadour style, but
among the lower, simply brushed back, if it is brushed at all. Peas-

 

 

* American ladies.

