CA 012 47

ment; or a hunt in which gentle women ride with pleasure to see
a fox torn by the fangs of a pack of bounds?

Walking from the bull ring to the hotel we passed an old
lam-tiara) or public place where the Moors washed their feet and
hands before entering the mosque, which has since been converted
into the bishop's house.

Cadiz is built on a point of land jutting from the west coast
of Spain into the ocean, and, on account of its shape, is called
La Taza de Plata.*

As we left the city on our way to Seville, the train was a great
curiosity to us. The cars open at the side, each compartment
seating only eight people. There are no bells on the locomotives
in Spain, but when the train is about to start, the station-master
appears and rings vigorously an ordinary dinner-bell, the whistle on
the pygmy engine gives a little toot and the train starts. \Ve had
just congratulated ourselves that we were to be alone, when
presto! three Spaniards entered, all smoking. Of course this
was to be expected, for in Spain men smoke everywhere, even in
the presence of ladies. We prepared to be miserable, and drew
nearer .the windows, but to our surprise they permitted the weeds
to go out, and were assiduous in their efforts to make us com-
fortable, arranging the curtains and picking up our parcels. On
leaving at one of the way stations they raised their hats and said
courteously. ‘ ‘Adios, Seﬁoras. " 'l'

The country between Cadiz and Seville is beautiful. Just out
of Cadiz are-great salt-pans, and near by are pyramids of salt ready
for market. The farms are enclosed by hedges of the century
plant and the earth seems rich and productive. There are wheat-
ﬁelds and olive orchards, vast vineyards, bare of leaves,-——as it is
only March—herds of cattle, sheep and goats. The mode of plow-
ing is primitive indeed. The plow itself is nothing more nor less
than the-trunk. of a small tree, with a sharp projecting limb still
attached to it, drawn by oxen. ‘

The poverty of the peasants is great and is due principally to

* The silver cup.

'l‘ Good-bye, ladies.

 

 

