
Page-200
AND LOWER EGYPT. 37]?

CH A P. XLVII.

ﬂaizoua— Ballas -— Earl/1612 pots— {Wafer-772910213“
JVe'guadé—Ear/agaal’e—Tﬁe lljena—wlI/ild and
domestic animals—Tile liger~lee /£0n-.-—T/ze flip-
popolamm—T/Ie bear—Boat alic/zor— Robbers--
T/ze stark—Tile pelican—[5121(5/2-445015-11/1': de-
scriplion of him; Iii: plan 10 make ilimselfyong

again.

ABNOUB, alarge village which belonged to the
Arabian Sc/zeic/c Iszmz'iu-Aliou-A/i, is situated about
four or ﬁve leagues to the south of Den/Zara, and
on the eastern bank of the Nile. It was the be-
ginning of his territories, and he there maintained
a commandant. Ballas, another possession of
the same prince, which stands three leagues above
on the opposite bank, is a trading village, owing
to the great quantity of earthen pots which are
there manufactured. These vessels have no other
name than that of the place where they are made.
They are of a middling size, and have two han-
dles: the bottom of these pots is externally con~
vex, and nearly terminates in a point, so that
they cannot stand upright. This inconvenient
shape resembled that of the amp/20m, or jug, in
which the Romans preserved their wine; it is per-

petuated
Page-201
17'2 TRAVELS IN UPPER

petuated in Egypt from the most remote antiquity:
for Caylus has given us the ﬁgure of a vase in use
amongst the ancient Egyptians, the bottom ofwhich
was formed in like manner *; and Paul Lucas
found a similar one amidst the ruins of Dendera +-

In these parts of Upper Egypt you frequently
meet with whole districts ﬁlled with water—melons.
They are sown in the sand on the bank of the river;
and it is in this situation, where the burning heat
co-operates with the freshness of the water which
moistcns the stalks, that this fruit acquires its grate«
ful and refreshing pulp; where, under a scorching
atmosphere, it is sought after as affording a nou-
rishment equally wholesome and agreeable.

A dead calm having continued during the whole
of the 22d, we could not reach Néguadé, on the
west of the Nile, till after mid-day, although we
had left BaZ/as, between which and Nelgzazr/éthere
was only three leagues distance, at daybreak.

It is conferring too much honour on I‘Céguzz—dé to
style it, as some have done, a city; for it scarcely de-
serves the title of a market-town, being in fact no-
thing else thana village somewhat larger than the
rest. It is almost entirely peopled with Cophts,

* Recueil d’Antiquités, pl. 15, No. 1.
+ Voyage in 171.1,, vol. iii.
among
Page-202
AND LOXVER EGYPT. 173

among whom there are a few Catholics. They have
manufacturers of blue or clouded cloths, which, in
a commercial View, are of importance to them, and
which diffuse a degree of comfort over the place
which they inhabit. A Cophtish bishop resides
there, but he does not improve the morals of a
crowd ofmen, who generally, although Christians,
are worse than the Mahometans amidst whom they
live 9*. The Catholics have also a curé, who has
partly studied at Rome, and two Franciscan
friars, sumptuously maintained; and whose se-
raphic pride looks down with disdain on those
whom they are appointed to direct or to convert.
These monks, one of whom was a German and
the other an Italian, received me tolerably well.

Several shocks of an earthquake were felt during
the night, which terriﬁed the inhabitants of N’-
guade’. These shocks, asl afterwards learnt, were
equally perceptible at Ta/ztzz; and in the latter
place a meteor was observed at the same time,
which, by the description given me of it, had some
resemblance to a rainbow; it was not so exten-
sive, but it had the same form and the same co-
lours. The air was darkened by thick vapours
and by the dust which the wind scattered abroad.

* This bishoprick of NcZguazIe' is not included in the list of
Cophtish bishopricks given byForskal (Description of Arabia
by Niébuhr, page 79): it has however now existed for some
time.

I was
Page-203
17:, TRAVELS IN L'I’tjER

I was presenth by the chief of the mission for
the propagation of the faith, with the skin of an
hycna 3“, very large and well preserved. The ani-

mal to which it had belonged was killed in the vici-
nity Ofl\él(ﬂ(]€1l9t,li its Arabian name is dabbrznt '
is often found 111 the mountains and woods 0 [Up-
per Egypt. 'lhis animal 15 not gregarious, like the
jackal- , it, too, prowls 1n the night- time, and ap-
proaches the habitations of man, like the other ani-
mal, but it is generally alone, and never in com-
panies. The hycna, fully as carnivorous as the
jackal, feeds in like manner on the most disgusting
prey; yet bolder, because stronger, it knows better
than the other how to attack and carry off living
animals. At times it fears not to seize on man
himself, and not unfrequently devours children.

Considering Egypt as only that proportion or
ground which has been cultivated along the banks
of the Nile, and which lies, more or less, enclosed
between two chains of mountains, it may be said
with sufﬁcient truth, that it contains no species of
carnivorous animals. But, although those parched
rocks, as well asthe scorching and immense plains
which border upon them, are uninhabited and un-
inhabitable, and seem consequently to belong to
no country whatever, it is nevertheless agreed upon
to include, under the name of Egypt, that ex»

* Cam'r lying. Lin.
tent
Page-204
AND LOWER EGYPT. I75

tent of territory, or rather of sand, comprehended
lengthwise between the Red Sea and Libya, the
theatre of barrenness and desolation, and the for-
midable retreat of various savage animals, which
sometimes wander from their recesses to infest the
plains of which Egypt is in fact composed, be-
cause it is in them alone that man can settle.

And if the domestic animals are in this country,
as in other adjacent places, the most gentle and
tractable in the world, the beasts of prey are also
the ﬁercest of all others. Their rage, like the
heat of the climate, is extreme; so true it is, that
man alone has been able to change the disposition
of the former of these, which would naturally
have been as wild as the latter are ferocious;
and that it is to long-established and very inti-
mate domestic habits that they owe the good qua-
lities which distinguish them.

The caves of the lofty and rugged mountains
which border the Nile on the east and on the
west, afford haunts inaccessible, and ﬁt only for
voracious animals; it is thither that the ﬁerce
hyena drags the victims she has run down, and
where she heaps up their bones on an extensive
plain of carnage. She is almost the only qua-
druped of prey which inhabits these dismal soli-
tudes. Those animals, which under a clothing

elegantly
Page-205
r76 TRAVELS IN UPPER

elegantly variegated, and with a form smooth and
slender, have addicted themselves to cruelty and
the dreadful thirst for blood, do not often appear
there ; and the lion, whose species is every where
decreasing, is also very rarely to be found in the
vicinity of'Egypt ; he is afraid to penetrate there,
or, if he attempts it, his stay is of short duration.
The Egyptians call him 3012125.

Lions and partiucolourcd quadrupeds are not the
onlyanimals whose race has diminished successively,
andat length entirelydisappcared out of the land of
Egypt. Thehippopotamus* was anciently very com-
mon about thatpart oftheNile which washcs Egypt.
“ Those,” says Herodotus, “ which are found in
“ the district of Papremis are sacred, but in other
“ parts of Egypt they are not considered in the
“ same light if They laid waste whole countries
byravages as fearful astheir size was enormous, and
they were 'equally formidable to man with the
crocodile 1‘. From the terror which they inspired,
they were generally looked upon as the symbol of
Typhon, that giant who had Spread death and de-
struction among the deities which were worshipped

* Hippopqtamm amp/ziéim. Lin.

1 Book 2. § 7:. Translation of Citizen Larcher.

; “ A species of sea-horse inhabits the Nile, which is fully
“ as mischievous as the crocodile.” Pausanias, translation of
Gedoyn, book 4. Voyage into Mysenia, p. 400.

in
Page-206
AND LOWER EGYPT. 177

in that quarter; they were of course the emblem
of mischance and of cruelty.

Among superstitious nations, terror also has its
deities, and it is to this painful idea alone that we
are to ascribe the particular worship with which
these clumsy and dangerous quadrupeds were ho-
noured at Papremis, solely in the View ofappeasing
or averting their rage. But the hippopotamus, as
the author of Philosophical Researches respecting
the Egyptians and the Chinese, hasjustly observed,
far from approaching, in the present day, as high
as Old Cairo, does not even descend below the ca-
taracts of the Nile: after becoming very scarce in
Egypt, he has ﬁnally disappeared altogether.

It is well known that very few of the race of the
hippopotamus have been found in this country
during the last two centuries; and the aeras in
which they were seen have been marked. About
the year 1550, Bellonius saw one of those animals
at Constantinople, whither it had been brought
from Egypt *, supposing however that it really was
an hippopotamus, which the traveller examined, in
the capital of the Turkish empire; which Mathi-
olus, supported by some errors in the description,

* Petr. Bellonii de Aquatil. Parisiis, 1553, page 14, and
Observ. folio 103, verso.

VOL. III. R disputes
Page-207
1'78 TRAVELS m UPPER

disputes with him: “ I think,” says he, “that
“ Bellonius saw double, or that he relates more
“ than he saw *.” In 1600, Frederico Zerenghi, an
talian surgeon, killed two of them near Dami—
etta'f. Fifty~eight years afterwards some janisa-
ries shot another on shore, where it had come to
feed, near Girge’, the capital of the Sa'z'd: it was
brought dead to Cairo, where it was described by
Thévenoti. Nearly about the same time, Pietro
Della-Valle observes, that one was kept alive at
Cairo§ ; perhaps it was the same of which Théve-
not makes mention; as those of which Maillet
speaks, as having been taken some years before he
was appointed consul, in 1692, are also probably
the same which Zerenghi killed || : so that the last
precise date of the appearance of the hippopo-
tamus in Egypt would be in the year 1658.

Indeed, since, or about this time, the hippopo«
tamus has no longer made its appearance in Egypt;
the name seems also to be lost with the race, for the

* Comment. on Dioscorides, Pinet’s translation, Lyons, 1604,
page 138, col. 1.

-i- Hist. Nat. des andrupbdes par Button, article de I’Hip-
popotame.

1 Voyage to the Levant, by Thévenct, page 491.

§ “ I have seen in Cairo several living animals, such as . . . .
“ sea-horses.” Voyage de Pietro Della~Valle, Paris, 1670,
tom. i. page 3r9.

ll Defc. dc l’Egypte par Maillet, part ii. p. 3:.

inhabitants
Page-208
AND LOWER EGYPT. 179

inhabitants ofthe Said, where formerly these ani-
mals were most commonly found, know as little
ofthe denomination of River Horse as of the ani-
mal himself to which that title is given ; they
seem even to retain no longer an idea of it. Doc-
tor Shaw has also ascertained the same fact with
respect to the people of Lower Egypt "t.

It is surprising that the hippopotamus should
have so far deserted Egypt as to be at present
scarcely known there. This emigration, almost
sudden, could not have been occasioned either by
an increase “of inhabitants, or by their more
active industry + ; for no one is ignorant that this
country was in former ages much more nume-
rously peopled and inﬁnitely better cultivated
than it is in modern times.

In reﬂecting on the disappearance ofthe hippo-
potamus from that part of the Nile which waters
Egypt, I only perceive the natural effect of the use
of ﬁre-arms, now generally prevalent in this coun—
try, for a certain number of years past, although
these arms, or at least cannon, were not as yet very

* Travels, French translation.

4} Button (in his natural history of the lion) has proved,
that the lion species is reduced to the tenth part of what it used
to be, occasioned, he says, by the increase of the human race.

N 2 ' “numerous
Page-209
180 TRAVELS IN UPPER

numerous at the time of my voyage: but there Was
not a village of the least signiﬁcance, whose com-
mandant did not possess two or three ﬁeld-pieces,
which were discharged from no motive whatever
several times every day; and these villages are,
it is known, on the brink of rivers and of canals.
Armies, or rather bands of lVlamelucs, were al-
most constantly in the ﬁeld ; the river was often
covered with flotillas of their armed boats; and
they took with them, upon every occasion, a small
train of artillery, which would have been alto-
gether useless, had they not perpetually played it
off {or the sole pleasure of making a noise. Such
a disturbance, from these frequent explosions,
would have been suﬂieicnt to frighten away ani-
mals which travellers agree in representing, gene-
rally speaking, as very timid, and to banish them
into Abyssinia, where these roaring machines were
not known. Happy would the Egyptians have
been, had. they not had greater ravages to endure
from those who freed them from noxious ani-
mals, than they had even cause to apprehend
from the multiplication of such animals.

It has been said that the hippopotamus could
not live long out of the water 9*; that he lived at
the bottom of rivers, where he walked at his

* Aristotle, Pliny, Mathiolus, &c.

6356;
Page-210
AND LOWER EGYPT. 181

case 3“ ; that he was carried down to the depths of
the sea by the weight of his body, and that he
only swam at the mouth of rivers +3 &c. &c. It
has also been afﬁrmed, that he could not long
remain in the water. Finally, Forster was assured,
at the Cape of Good Hope, that the hippopotamus
there could not travel more than thirty yards at a
time 1;. It results from all that has been said
concerning this animal, that his natural history is
not yet well understood. There is every reason
to suppose that more enlarged observations will
render it clear, that the hippopotamus of the rivers
is not the hippopotamus of the sea ; that they are
two distinct species ; and that it is From not mak-
ing this distinction, which appears certain, that
differences have arisen in the descriptions and ac-
counts givenof those quadrupeds. It may even
be suspected, with some appearance of probabi-
lity, that the greater part of sea animals repre-
sented by travellers as the hippopotamus, are no-
thing else than a species of great pile-pip.

The hippopotamus was not the only savage

animal held in veneration at Pap/ems; the bear

* Bellonius, in his works before quoted.

+ See a physical and historical dissertation on the proof of
innocence or guilt by immersion, by Pierquin, cure of l.cr~
raine, printed in 1731.

; Second Voyage of Capt. Cook, French translation, vol. 3.

p. :34.
N 3 had
Page-211
182 TRAVELS IN UPPER

had also his burying-place there 9* : but in other
parts of Egypt, according to the report of Hero-
dotus, who adds, that this animal is there very
scarce, they were buried in the same place where
they were found dead .p. Pliny, however, states
that there are no bears in Egypt 3’; Laying aside
ancient and modern proofs, which appear positive,
I should be inclined to the opinion of this cele-
brated and elegant natural historian, and should
suppose that travellers might, at a distance, mis-
take the hyena for the bear. Indeed, how can
we believe that an animal, whose thick fur sufﬁ-
ciently indicates that he is the native of a cold
climate, which delights in hilly and thickly-shaded
forests, should equally accustom himself to live
in waste and sandy plains, which a scorching
sun heats and dries up, and in which he could
ﬁnd no means of subsistence P Of the two species
of bear which exist, that of black and of red
bears, the former could not live in solitudes,
which did not afford him the thickness of forests,
nor those fruits, roots, or grains on which these
animals subsist. If the latter sort of bear is in-
tended, the red or brown, “ which' are found not
“ only in Savoy, but in lofty mountains, in vast

* Pauw, Philosophical Researches respecting the Egyptians
and Chinese, vol. i. p. 152.
1- Book ii. § 67; Laxcher’s translation.
1 Hit hat. lib. viii. cap. 76.
“ forests,
Page-212
AND LOWER EGYPT. 183

“forests, and in almost all the deserts of the
“ earth, which devour living animals, and even
“feed on the vilest garbage *,” can it be ima.
gined that the mountains and deserts of Egypt
would yield them suitable retreats or nourish.
ment ?

However powerful an inference deduced from
coinciding circumstances may be, when, upon
comparing them, the observer is rarely deceived
in the consequences which result, and however
forcible those proofs in support of Pliny’s opinion,
which both what I have seen and read induces me
to adopt; it must nevertheless be admitted, that
a great number of authorities leave no doubt as
to the existence of bears in Africa.

An acquaintance with the real position of the
ancient city of Papremis, where the bear was more
honoured than elsewhere, would not do away my
doubts, if anyremained : for even supposing that
it was not remote from the district of Nit'ria, or
the desert of St. Macaria, as Mr. Panw conjectures,
the same difﬁculty still remains. Indeed, among
the many animals which I have met with in this
desert, I did not once see the hear. The BC?

douins, accustomed to frequent that part of the

’-* Button, Natural History of Quadrupcds, article BEAR.
N 4 solitudcs
Page-213
184 TRAVELS IN UPPER

so‘itudes of Libya, have assured me they never
Saw that animal ; and the Cophtish monks, more
dangerous in these abandoned and depopulatcd
regions than the ferocious animals with which
they partake a dwelling-place, have conﬁrmed
on this head the testimony of the Bedouins.

I only passed the night at Néguaa’é, and left it
on the and at nine in the morning. Although
Luxor was distant no more than from eight to nine
leagues, and the wind was favourable, we could
not reach it on that day, on account of the fre-
quent windings of the Nile, which prolong its
navigation, and at the same time render it difﬁ-
cult. We found ourselves in very dangerous re-
gions, from the great number of robbers, whose
only occupation is to strip travellers, and plunder
their boats. We could not think of approaching
either bank, and I therefore ordered to cast an-
chor for the night in the very middle of the river.
A large stone served to hold fast my boat, and a
sorry rope made of the rind of the palm-tree, was
fastened to it by way of cable. During the night
a skilful swimmer approached us, gliding through
the water without the slightest noise; we kept a
good look—out ; he was perceived, and a musket-
shot soon forced him to decamp with less precau-

tion than he had made use of in advancing to-
ward us.

The
Page-214
AND LOWER EGYPT. 185

The 24th, at daybreak, we weighed the block
ofstone which kept fast our boat, and arrived at
Luxor, a village on the eastern bank, built upon
the ruins of Thebes. I was there informed that
the Arabian prince, Imzaiu-Alzou-Jﬂi, who was vi-
siting his possessions, was at that time encamped
near a small village Opposite to Luxor. Fearful that
I should not be able to join him, I hastened to
cross the river, for the purpose of seeing a man
whose power and credit were in so great repute.

For two days past I had met a great number of
storks ’43:, and several pelicans+. The inhabitants
of Upper Egypt call this latter bird, c/ztzmecm d'ezm
(water camel), from the membranous bag which
it has under the bill, and which, when ﬁlled, has
some resemblance to the leathcrn bottles contain-
ing water with which they load the camel.

Having arrived at the camp,I presented myselli
before Sc/zeick Isma'z'n. He was a little old man,
very ugly, and quite inﬁrm. I found him in his
tent, wrapped up in a shabby woollen great coat,
torn to tatters, and very dirty, which he half un-
folded every instant to spit upon- his clothes. This
disgusting man was still foppish enough to dye his
beard red with llama, undoubtedly with a view to
hide the glaring proofs of his old age. But this

Tl" Arden cicom'a. Lin. f Pelz'canu: omcramlm. Lin.

precaution
Page-215
186 TRAVELS IN UPPER

precaution made him look still more hideous, and
the ﬁery colour of the 11mm on a wrinkled and
faded visage, produced a very disagreeable effect.
Yet although his physical appearance was vile and
unpleasant, his head was clear, and his mind dis-
played much vivacity. A concourse of Arabians
and of the inhabitants encircled him ; he listened
to them with attention whilst he was dictating to
his secretaries; e issued his orders, and gave his
decisions, with surprising distinctness and regard
to justice. I remained some time before the open
tent of the prince, and, when he had ﬁnished the
most important affairs, asked, in a tone of voice
suﬂieiently dry, who I was. I approached him,
and delivered the letter of Mourat Bey. As soon
as he had read it, he extolled the attention of his
friend, who had sent him a physician of extraor—
dinary ski/l, who was at last to cure him of all his
diseases, and they were not few : but that which
seemed to aﬁect him the most, and which he soon
imparted to me; that which, itself alone, would
have discouraged the most skilful doctor, and of
which Isma'in, nevertheless, ﬂattered himself I
should be able to cure him, was his state of weak-
ness and incapacity for enjoyments which he could
not resolve to renounce. This task was set be~
tore me as of the first importance to accomplish ;
the rest would follow in their course. I was to
enter upon my ofﬁce by renewing the youth of

. this
Page-216
AND LOWER EGYPT. 187

this second [Eson 5 and from the manner in which
he spoke ofit, I perceived that the thing appeared
to him as easy and simple as if 1 had possessed
the magical arts of a Medea. To lose no time in
effecting a cure of such importance, the old Ara-
bian hinted to me that I should accompany him
in visiting his estates, and that during ourjourney
he would take the necessary restoratives.

Ismai'n was also accustomed to chew and smoke
imscﬁisclz, an intoxicating preparation from the
hemp of Egypt, of which I have before given a
description. He sunk every day into the gentle
torpor, the Km], which that plant superinduces;
but habit had given him a desire to change this
method, and he instructed me to provide him some
other ingredient which should produce a similar
effect, always excepting wines and other spirit-
uous liquors, to which he had an utter aversion.

After the prince had made me acquainted with
his plans, he resumed the course of his affairs, and
I retired to the shade of a grove of trees, in the
middle of which his tent was situated. I was im-
mediately surrounded by that kind of people who,
in Attica as in Europe, follow on the heels of
those who appear to be in favour with the great.
A sumptuous dinner was served up to me, during
which I did not want either lookers-on or flat-

tercrs,
Page-217
188 TRAVELS IN UPPER

terers, and I had a capital opportunity of playing
the great man. But I was thinking of other
things than of the idiots who were teasing me:
the injunctions which lsma'in had laid upon me
never quitted my imagination. I was conscious
that I did not possess the gift of miracles, and that
was absolutely necessary to enable me to satisfy
him. I determined to abandon a delicate situa-
tion which Iwas not in a condition to ﬁll. After
having dined, the prince fell asleep, and I availed
myself of that circumstance to return to Luxor,
where a Cophtish Catholic, whom I had seen at
Neiguadé, had already entertained me.

On awakening, the prince unfortunately turned
his thoughts on me: he cried out with all his
might, Fen Izal’z'm? Fen ltd/Um? (Where is the
physician? “There is the physician?) When he
learnt that I was at Luxor, he dispatched a mes-
senger after me to say, that hilonrat Bey having
sent me to his assistance,l must not think of quit—
ting him, and that from that period I was Iii: ply!-
sirirm. This message concluded with an order'to
hold myself in readiness the next day, to aecom~
pany Isma'in in his journey. Sheep and provisions
of every kind followed the messenger, and were
presented to me in the name of my illustrious and.
whimsical patient.

I felt
Page-218
AND LOWER EGYPT. 189

I felt myself very much embarrassed; it was
necessary to make up my mind; and it would
have been imprudent to refuse to gratify the incli-
nations of lsmai'n. To gain a little time, I re-
plied, that I was ready to follow him, but that as
he was to pass by Néguadé in a few days, I en-
treated him to permit me to go and wait at that
place for him, because I should be there more
commodiously lodged than elsewhere, having oc-
casion to take some repose. The same messenger
returned with Ismai‘n’s consent, and with a written
order on his overseer at Négzmdé, to furnish me
with eeery thing necessary or agreeable. Ithought
it my duty to take the road immediately, and I
departed for Néguadé, where I hoped to discover
some method of making my escape from the dan-
gerous honour of being physician to the Arabian
court.
Page-219
:90 TRAVELS IN UPPER

CHAP. XLVlIl.

Re/zmz lo Ne’ggnmdé—Swe/liug of tile Nile—[Valera
a];imzer'snKozzs—Remaius of the city of Apollo-—
Illa/(ch: coﬁee—Ferti/z'g oft/1e soil in Upper Egypt
—-Its (23';'z'ezzlture—Grmzi-rorous birds—Swallows
—L(zmn/ress —— Rd‘vem —F/ies —-— Bugs— [meets
will more disgusliug—Iebzeumon fly—Drone bee
——W?zs[) ——Scorpionv—Cz'ab—Degenerae} of Me
people of Egypt—[17322201 of . leelmiisV-— Those
w/zo lmve emﬁraeed tile Cat/10176 fableﬁave [2e-
come subject 10 foreign monK’S—Eﬂeets of jealoufy
in women—Purga/i‘ves— Senna—Venereal dis-
cases—MCzstie/z.

ONE of the Italian monks of Nefguadé was at
Luxor ; he had come to go his round of begging,
and to collect the alms of the Catholics of this
canton. His expedition had been a good one,
and he loaded my boat with the pious contribu-
tions which he had levied. We reached Ne’gzma’e’
the 26th June, at nine o’clock in the evening,
and my wrap/tic guide conducted me to his habi-
tation, where I remained for some days.

We were on the eve of the swelling of the Nile;

its waters had changed their colour some days be-
fore,
Page-220
AND LOWER EGYPT. I91

fore, and had begun to rise. The inhabitants were
in hopes that the inundation would this year be
considerable; they grounded this expectation on
the great number of water-spinners’it which as.
sembled abovethe surface of the earth, experience
having taught them, that the more abundant these
insects are, the more abundant will be the waters
of the river. Whole swarms, or, to speak more
properly, clouds of water-spinners were seen so
thick, that the air, to a certain height, was filled
with them, and you might, if I may so express
myself, have cut them with a knife.

The day after my arrival at Cophtish Catholic of
Kous engaged me to meet the Superior whom he
had just invited to dinner. On the 28th we passed
the Nile, and found, on landing, horses in readi-
ness to convey us to Kous, which the inhabitants of
the Said pronounce Gous. It is a town in which a
Kiasc/wf resided, and which is situated at some dis—
tance from the eastern bank of the Nile, opposite to
Nciguaﬂe’, but about halfa league more to the nortt ~
ward: according to Danville, it now ﬁlls the place
ofthe ancient city of ﬂpollinis-parva, which An—
thony, in his Itinerary, simply styles virus zlpollz'nir,
or the village oprollo. The only monument of
antiquity to be seen there, was the front ofa small
temple dedicated to the sun, half buried. Its plan

* Tipula culiciﬂn‘mir.
is
Page-221
192. TRAVELS IN UPPER

is a rectangular parallelogram of the width of
thirty feet; the sand and rubbish conceal the
greatest part of it, and the remainder does not rise
more than ten or twelve feet above ground. Some
hieroglyphical ﬁgures and characters had been
engraved upon the wall, but the superstitious bar“
barism of the inhabitants, more than the hand of
time, had almost entirely eﬂaeed them. It was
now no longer possible to distinguish any of the
Greek inscriptions traced on the tirizc, and one of
which was copied by Paul Lucas 3*, and the other
by Grangerln

I rmeived many civilities from the Copht, an old
man who lived at his ease, and who was highly
respected. His name was Illa/[£2212 Poe/or. The
repast with which he regaled us was looked upon
as sumptuous in this country, and, according to
custom, date-brandy was not forgotten.

Corsair, a port on the Red Sea, is three long days’
journey from Karts. The road which leads toit lies
across the desert. It is the track the caravans pur~
sue, which transport into Arabia the commodities of
Egypt, and which carry thither the coffee onemen.
The greater number of these caravans from Corsair
deliver at Kom. Some also go to Kerme', and others

* Voyage performed in 1714, vol. ii. page 2.
f Tim-:33 through Egypt in 1g3o, page 43.
to
Page-222
AND LOWER EGYPT. 193

to Banoulr. If you wish to be supplied with excel-
lent coffee, you must go to one ofthese three places
to ﬁnd it. When once it arrived at Cairo, or had
crossed the Nile, it was no longer pure. Merchants
were waiting there to mix it with the common cof-
fee of America. At Alexandria it underwent a se-
cond mixture by the factors who forwarded it to
lVIarseilles, where they did not fail again to adulte-
rateit; so that the pretended Mokka coffee, which is
used in France, is often the growth ofthe American
colonies, with about a third, and seldom with a
half of the genuine coffee of Yemen. When I was
at Kous an hundred weight 0fthis coffee, unadul-
terated, and ofthe ﬁrst quality, cost in that place
fourteen and a half chequins of Egypt, which is
one hundred and ﬁve franks of our money (about
41. 6s. 8d. sterling), or tenpence halfpenny the
pound.

If to prime cost is added the eXpense ofconvey—
.ing it to Cairo, the duties which are paid there, the
charges for loading and unloading, those for trans—
porting it to Alexandria, freight to Marseilles, the
exorbitant and arbitrary duties with which that
commodity is there loaded, as the importation ofit
was prohibited in France, and if to these are added
commission and the expense ofgrinding, how is it
possible to believe that they should have real Mokka

VOL. III. 0 coffee
Page-223
194. TRAVELS IN UPPER

coffee at Paris at the rate of ﬁve shillingsa pound ?
Ibrought away a bag of this sweet-scented berry of
the Arabian coffee-tree. The trunk which con—
taincd it has retained the perfume for years, and
every time it was opened the fragrance was com-
municated. I even showed it to some people to
satisfy themselves of the difference which existed

bcuvecn this coffee, and that which was sold in
France for real hIokka.

In conversation with Mal/am Parlor I expressed
a desire to visit the coasts of the Red Sea, and he
offered to get me conducted to Cosseir in safety. I
promised to avail myself of his proposal, but it was
ﬁrst necessary that I should see the Sclzeicé Ismail;—
xﬂiou—Ali. Ihad given him my word to wait for
him at Ne'guaa’é, and I returned thither with my

monk, after having been loaded with civilities by
the Copht ofKous.

I

Iemployed the stay which I was obliged to make
at Néguadé, in collecting diﬂ’erent observations cal—
culated to procure me an intimate acquaintance
with the countries in which Ithen was. I directed

my ﬁrst inquiries to the most important considera-
tion, to that which has been, in all ages, a subject

of admiration, the fertility of the lands of Upper
Egypt.
In
Page-224
AND LOWER EGYPT. 195

In this, as in every thing else out of the common
way, thelove of the marvellous has introduced its
exaggerated assertions. There is not, indeed, any
country in the world where the soil is more pro-
ductive than in Egypt. Nevertheless when, as an-
cient and modern authors have stated, they extend
its fruitfulnessin corn as far as one, two, and even
three hundred grains from a single seed, they go
very far beyond the common rate. On the other
hand, those who have alleged that one measure of
wheat sown in the earthiwould produce ten, have
stopped far short of the truth. I have taken and
Compared, in this view, the most accurate returns,
and I have found that, one year with another, a
crop ofwhcat produces, on an average, from twenty-
'ﬁve to thirty grains for one. And it is ofimport-
anee to observe, that I am not speaking of count-
ing the number of grains produced from a single
one of which a particular ear may be composed,
but that I mean the entire harvest, of the mass of
corn reaped in a given district, so that every mea-
sure sown gives a return of twenty-ﬁve to thirty
measures. In extraordinary seasons, favoured by
peculiar circumstances, land sow n with wheat gives
a produce of ﬁfty for one. I was even assured, at
Nefguade’, that, six or seven years before my arrival,
a farmer bad reaped one hundred and ﬁfty fold;

but this observation, taking the accuracy of it for
o 2 granted,
Page-225
196 TRAVELS IN UPPER

granted,, only presenting a single and particular
fact, cannot be taken into the general account.
For some years the inhabitants have complained of
the scantiness of their crops, although the ground
had produced twenty fold during these very years
which they had considered as times of dearth.

A fertility like this, which had no need of the
aid of exaggeration to appear astonishing, will still
admit ofincrcase. Ignorant and lazy, the Egyp-
tian husbandmcn knew not how to avail them-
selves, tothe utmost, ofthe most fruitful ofall soils ;
and the means of irrigation which vegetation de-
mands in so warm a climate were neglected, or, in
agreat degree, lost.

In another View, when it is considered that vege-
tation has no where more force and activity than
in the soil of Upper Egypt ; if it is remembered
that-no species of plant long occupies the earth,
and that many crops are seen in succession, and
coming to perfection in one and the same year, the
inexhaustible mine of abundance which this an-
cient land encloses in its womb, must be a source
of wonder and astonishment.

And this uncommon fertility is still more hril-
liant to the south than to the north of Egypt.
Thebai's,
Page-226
AND LOWER EGYPT. 197

Theba'is, which borders on the torrid zone"; would
seem, from the heat of the sun by which it is
warmed, from the masses ofrocks which surround
it, and which reﬂect and concentrate the heat, and
from the elevation of its land, rendered thereby
more diﬁicult to inundate, to be destitute of ver-
dure, and ofthe richness of harvests; it is, never-
theless, inﬁnitelymore fruitful than the moist soil of
the Delta. Its produce of every kind is more sur-
prising. Fruit-trees overshadow it in greater num-
bers, and form, in a manner, forests of moderate
thickness, which produce perpetual coolness, and
under the shade of which you may either take re-
pose, or travel.

Besides the vegetative force of a highly-favoured
soil, the manner in which the Eg 'ptians sow the
corn, is another cause of its great multiplication.
They perceive that the method of sowing thickly,
perhaps necessary in a cold and compact ground,
would be hurtful in a_ soil warm and teeming with
vegetation. The act of sowing is also carefully ma-
nagcd in the ﬁelds of Egypt. The sower closely
follows the plough, and scatters, in the small fur-
row which it leaves behind, a portion of grain,
barely necessary,which the plough covers in tracing
another furrow. In this manner not a single grain

* The tropic of Cancer passes a little above the cataracts, or
at the extremity of Egypt.
0 3 is
Page-227
198 TRAVELS IN UPPER

is lost; there are none which seem, as in our
country, to be cast down purposelyto feed the birds.
The stalks, arranged in parallel lines, and separated
from each other, as well as the roots which support
them, easily admit the impressions ofthe air and of
the sun ; and the cars, being neither conﬁned nor
stiﬂed, are not subject to the rickets ; the grains
with which they are ﬁlled soon acquire size and
nourishment, 'and no miscarriage or sicklincss is
found amongst them. Neither are their ﬁelds in—
fected by a crowd ofplants, which, under the gene—
rieal name of weeds, are in the greater part of our
lands a real bane to our harvests. The wheat is
sown pure as it is gathered, nor is it associated with
different sorts otgrain in the same field, which al-
though ofa similar species, yet not ripening at the
same period, cannot but produce a mixtUre as un-
productive to the husbandman as useless to the
consumer.

Fieids enriched with such harvests as these, can-
not fail to attract granivorous birds. Flights of
pigeons, pairs of turtle-doves, betake themselves
thither; and sparrows, which may be called the
corn-bird, as they are ever found where that kind
of grain is common,assemblethere about the farm-
houses. Thetufted lark, ﬁxed to this fruitful land,
nevcr forsakes it; it seems, hmvever, that the ex—
cessive heat annoys him. You may see these birds,

233

,
Page-228
AND LOWER EGYPT. 199

as well as sparrows, in the middle of the day, with‘
their bills halfopen,and the muscles oftheir breasts
agitated, breathing with diﬂiculty, and as it" they
panted for respiration. This instinct, which in-
duces them to prefer those means of subsistence
which are easily obtained, and in abundance, al-
thoughattcndcd with some srrﬁei'ii'ig, resembles the
mind of man whom a thirst for riches engages to
brave calamities and dangers without number.

A multitude ofwinged insects serve, at the same
time, for food to the swallows, which never quit a
climate so well calculated to afford them habitations
and subsistence. The Egyptians give them an
Arabian name, which corresponds with that oflu'rd
ofprzmdise. Another species oFbirds, a great foe
to insects, the laundress, so well known in the
more northern parts of Egypt, is no longer to be
found in these southern countries : but small
ﬂocks of ravens are now and then to be met with.

The insects there, which are the most numerous
‘ and troublesome, are the ﬂies *. Both man and
beast are cruelly tormented by them. No idea can
be formed of their obstinate rapaeity, when they
wish to ﬁx on some part of the body. It is in vain
to drive them away, they return again the self-same
moment, and their perseverance wearies out the

* .lfmra (Iomern'ca. Lin.

0 4. most
Page-229
Q00 TRAVELS IN UPPER

most patient spirit. They like to fasten themselves
in preference on the corners of the eye, and on the
edge of the eyelid, tender parts towards which
a gentle moisture attracts them. I have observed
a species, or rather a variety of ﬂies, streaked with
gray and dark brown, and resembling the common
ﬂy, only much smaller. Their habits also differ,
for I did not perceive that they were often on the
wing, nor that they incommodcd men or animals.
They were almost constantly found in houses, fast-

ened on the walls, and, from preference, on the
whitest.

The ﬂies are not the only troublesome insects;
their houses are ﬁlled with a vast quantity of bugs,
whose bites are cruelly painful. Notwithstanding
this, the Egyptians, covered over with these vile
insects, sleep profoundly; their skin, hard and thick,
renders them impenetrable, whilst the European
undergoes, in the same places, a real punishment.
The bite of these bugs always occasioned on my
body hard swellings, and as big as the end of my
ﬁnger.

An insect still more disgusting annoyed us du-
ring the whole ofourjourncy through Upper Egypt.
The inhabitants, even of the better order, and who
appear the most cleanly, are covered with lice, in
spite of their frequent bathing and religious ablu-

tons;
Page-230
AND LOWER EGYPT. 201

tions; the hey, the limo/26f, are not free from
them. When they feel themselves bitten by any
ofthese insects, they seize it carefully, and put it,
without hurting it, on the same sofa where they
are sitting, from whence it is not long crawling
on some other person. Whatever precaution I
could take to avoid being tormented by them, I
was obliged to submit to it, and to endure the en»
venomed bitings of these insects, which are of an

uncommon size and veracity in Egypt. When my
companions were employed in clearing themselves

from them, they usedjocularly to call their search
flaming (2 [a Tzz/‘gzze.

A beautiful species of ichneumon ﬂy *‘3 with a
strong auger, and long at the eXtremity ofthe body,
likewise enters occasionally the houses in Upper
Egypt. It shines with the most lively colours; its
head is ofa beautiful emerald green ; the corselet
and the belly are of a glittering purple tint.

I The drone-bee, which Citizen Olivier has styled
lite bee will: a yellow corselez‘ la is commonly seen
here. It makes in ﬂying a very loud buzzing. It
is yet to be found in Lower Egypt. 1 have seen it

* chleumon. Lin.

f Encyclop. method. article Bee. .4151) a’rrmm. Lin. ﬂpi:
Izirmta, nigra, flzorace ﬂaw. Fabriciirs, Sybt. Entom. page 382,
and Spec. Insect. vol. i. p. 479.

at
Page-231
202 TRAVELS IN UPPER

at Rossetta, but only during the warm season; it
is not visible in the winter months.

The handsome sort of wasps which I have de-
scribed at Rossetta 9*, is very common in Upper
Eg} pt : it is met with in the fields, in gardens, and
even in houses. It likes to he in the neighbour-
hood ofwater, and builds its nest in the ground.

Those frightful reptiles, scorpions, iere grow to
a very large size. I have been assured that their
sting occasioned acute pain, swoonings, convul-
sions, and sometimes death.

The Nile furnishes, yet very seldom, a species of
crab 4r, the ﬂesh of which is good. The shell
which covers the upper part of the body is of a
leaden colour ; the mztenme are partly black and
partly yellow speckled with black ; the head, in
front, is of a variegated yellowish and blackish
green; the claws and nippcrs are of a green hue
above, and of a livid yellow below; the extremity
of the claws and the tarsus yellow ; the tail is yel~
low in the middle, and greenish on each side.

To these. details ofthe immutable history of Na-
ture, I am about to add some observations on the

* See chap. xix. of the ﬁrst volume.
1 Cancer ﬂuviatz'lir.
ﬂuctuatin g
Page-232
AND LO\VER EGYPT. 9.03

ﬁtctuating history of man in society. There is not
a more striking example of a thorough change in
the character of nations than that which the i gt p-
tians have undergone. Slavery, and stupidity, 1ts
inevitable consequence, have ﬁlled the place of
power and grandeur. Superstitionsb icrnorance has
succeeded to the love oft 1e sciences, to the exercise
ofthe arts; and perfect civilization nas disappeared
to'make way for brutality and s..vagcness 0t man.
ners. it i B

It is impossible to depict the customs of a de—
graded people, ofwhom barbarism has taken entire
possession, without the interference ofidcas so dis~
honourable to humanity, ideas of crimes and rob-
beries, which blend in the picture, and constitute
the greatest part of it. The vices of the present

race of Egyptians have been already represented :-
more than once in this work. It will be suﬁicient
to add, that the menhofThebai's, still grosser than
those ofLowe1 Egypt, present an ass cmblagc more

odious; and I shall conﬁne myself to speak of
some customs peculiar to that country.

In proportion as you go up the Nile, that is to
Say, as you advance towards the eqninoctial line,
the skin of the natives colours, or rather grows
dusky. In the most southern cantons the Egyptian
women have a tawny complexion and a thick skin.

Exceptmg
Page-233
204 TRAVELS 1N UPPER

Excepting foreign or wealthy females, who ha‘:
lived at Cairo, and who retain the dress of the eity,
all the rest have no other clothing than that full
and long shift, orjackct, ofbluc cloth, with sleeves
ofan extraordinary size, andlarge openings at the
sides, ofwhich I haVe, already made mention. This
manner of dressing themselves by halves, so that
the air may circulate over the body itself, and re—
fresh every part of it, is very comfortable in a coun-
try where Close or thick habits would make the
heat intolerable. But the European monks have
discovered indecency in a habit where no one else
would have suspected it. They have spoken of
indiscreet looks of which no one entertains a doubt,
and have obliged the Catholic women to lay aside
their wide and easy robe, to shut up the body in a
warm and conﬁned vesture, as ifsuch a prohibition
had not been a more real indiscretion in a eountry
‘ where the name of Christian merely is a crime, and
where every distinction which could recall it be—
came a motive to persecution. But it is not asto-
nishing to see such inconsistencies proceed from the
narrow and bigotted brain of friars, and especially
ofltaliau Franciscans. Those ofNégzmdé however,
less scrupulous or less powerful, were the only
monks who had left things as they found them,
and who had permitted every one to dress accord-

ing to their fancy.
But
Page-234
AND LOWER EGYPT. 205

But they all agreed in forbidding the operation,
which Nature, in giving a superabundant excres-
cence to the Egyptian girls, has rendered necessary.
It was suﬂicient that the cutting of that part, which
was at least useless, bore some resemblance to cir-
cumcision, to make monkish stupidity perceive in
it a Jewish or Mahomctan practice, and hurl against
it what they called the thunder of the church,
which happily was not dangerous, except in the
eyes ofthose who were afraid ofit. But it was a
powerful weapon in countries where ignorance
reigned exclusively; and the Egyptian Catholics,
who were consequently the slaves of the monks,
determined to retain an inconvenient exuberance

rather than not obey the precepts of folly and by-
pocrisy.

Besides, these men, so busy in intermeddling with
secret details, about which they have, in every part
of the world, been at all times extremely curious;
these very men, so careful to avoid in some points
every thing which could have the slightest refer-
ence to the customs of the Jewish or Mahometan
religion, did not trouble themselves to do away
among their proselytes certain habits brought in
vogue by the disciples of'MalioinEthhe Catholic
women, probably visible to their ghostly director
alone, conceal themselves, like the Turkish ladies,
from all observation. A thick veil covers their

face,
Page-235
:96 TRAVELS IN UPPER

face, and they are like them retired and Cloistered
up in their houses. I have sometimes been con-
ducted, in my quality of physician, by a priest of
theirnation, or by an European monk, to the midst
of an assembly ot‘ these women. They only spoke
through a mask, andI never knew whether my
patient was old or young. To feel the pulse, I
was presented with a handand a wrist well wrap-
ped up, and the place was only left hare where I
was to apply my ﬁngers to the artery. \Vas it ex-
pedient to let blood P Oh l this was altogether an-
other eere .ony. They insisted that I should only
see the bending of the arm ; and I was obliged to
wait fretting myself, till they had uncovered the
fore part ofit. Ifany of these women was disor-
dered in the eyes, or had any other local complaint,
it was expected that I should cure them without
examining the eyes, or the seat of the disease; and
I always left these haunts of insipidity, my mind
ﬁlled with indignation at priests, who, far from
seeking to unfold the germs of reason, extinguished
its feeblest light, provided you were religious ac-
cording to their mode, that is to say, guided by su-
perstition, and, above all, by a thorough devoted-
mess to their will, which, audacious profaners,
they had the eﬁ‘rontery to declare as the will ofthe

Deity.

The
Page-236
AND LOWER EGYPT. 207

The women ofThcba'is, who have embraced the
Catholic religion, are. again distinguished from the
Blahometans by the disuse of an article of dress
generally worn in these districts. It is an orna-
ment of luxury and coquetry, which the monks
have also obliged them to lay aside, for which they
are not greatly to be found fault with, as it is by
no means becoming, at least as far asI can judge
ofit, from seeing female dancers and courtezans,

who walk about without veils, disﬁgured by rings '\_

of metal suspended from the nose. This fashion ,
consists in wearing one or more hoops of gold or
silver, passed through the nostrils,which are pierced
for the purpose: some ofthese hoops are verylarge,
and the richer people add to them small jewels of
gold, which fail not to load the wing ofthe nose,
and produce a very disagreeable effect. But I have
never heard that it was a piece of gallantry in
Egypt to kiss the women through these hoops, as
Button has given out, on the authority of a tra-
veller *. It is displaying much ignorance of the
genius otthe Egyptians and of the Arabians, even ‘“
to suppose them desirous of these amorous kisses.
These people are any thing but gallant, and the
delicious preliminaries of pleasure are quite un-
known to them. Besides, it is difﬁcult to kiss a

woman throucrh a ring which iercin one of the '
b 3’

sides ofthc nosc, hangs ofnecessity over the mouth.

’-‘ Natural History of Man.

Vansleb,
Page-237
203 TRAVELS I‘N UPPER

Vausleb. whom Buﬁbn continues to quote, says,-
that the women of the villages and of thepopulaee
ot'the cities of Egypt have sparkling eyes, a stature
below mediocrity, a mode of dressing by no means
agreeable, and that their conversation is very irk.
some ”1". That the good father should ﬁnd himself
\vearied in the companyofligyptian females, which
his profession as a missionary no doubt procured
him, is not at all astonishing, when it is known
how far removed these women are from our means
of knowledge and from every species ofeducation ;
that he was notsatisﬁed with their dress, although
light, cool, and comfortable, I only say, let every
one judge for himself; but the reverend father has
fallen into a mistake when he says that they are of
short stature, for, in fact, the Egyptian women are,
generally speaking, as tall as the French. It is
true that Vansleb was a German, and that the wo-
men in that part of Europe are for the most part
tall and slender. The Egyptian females are neither
so tall nor so well made.

It is not usual to ﬁnd jealousy without love.
The women of Upper Egypt, however, who neither
love nor are beloved, are sometimes seized with a
jeal‘ousgmadness, when they discover that their hus-

bands have any partiality {or other women, a par-

* Buﬁ'ou, Natural History of Man; and Vansleb, New Ac-
count of Egypt.

tiality
Page-238
AND LOWER EGYPT. 209

tiality common enough, and in which mere animal
passion is every thing, while the heart is totally
unaffected. Oﬁ'ended pride lays strong hold ofa
breast once inﬂamed, and which knows nothing
of love but its transports. Dissembling as well
as cruel, they instil a slow but mortal poison into
the blood of a faithless husband. Examples ofﬂa.
revenge, which even the delirium of, an amorous
,passion cannot excuse, are,” daily, to be seen.
Their blows are meditated in silence, and/they
indulge coolly, and in large draughts, the dreadful
pleasure of depriving an unhappy being of his life.
I have not actually witnessed what I am just now
going to relate, but they are facts which have
been unanimously attested to me, and which are

considered in the country as certain and un-
doubted.

These women, desperately wicked, are not
willing to inﬂict a quick and sudden death ; with
this their remorseless jealousy would not be grati-
ﬁed; but they bring on a gradual decay more in.
tolerable than death itself. In themselves they
ﬁnd the poison which promotes their views. The
periodical discharge, which Nature employs to
preserve their existence and health, becomes, in
their hands, a mean of destroying others. Mixed
with some food, a portion of this discharge is a
poison which immediately throws him who swal-

VOL. 111. r lows
Page-239
21C) TRAVELS 1N UPPER

lows it, into languor and a consumption, and
leads him to the grave. It is said that the women
take care to make ready this horrid repast at cer~
tain periods of the moon, during which it ought,
in their opinion, to produce more certain effects:
those of this poison are terrible indeed. The
symptoms are nearly the same as in the scurvy.
The body dries up ; all the limbs become exces-
sively feeble; the gums rot, the teeth are loosen-
ed; the beard and the hair fall off: in a word,
after having dragged out a tedious and painful life
for a twelvemonth, and sometimes longer, the
wretched victim expires in the midst of sufferings.
No remedy is known for so many horrors; it is
even asserted that nothing is able to alleviate

them.

This leads me on by a natural transition to
mention some remarks, which the practice of
physic in Egypt enabled me to make. I have ob-
served that it is not easy to purge its robust inha-
bitants. Their stomach, accustomed to digest
bread badly baked, acrid and raw vegetables, and
other gross and unwholesome nourishment, is not
easily affected by purgative medicines. Doses
which in Europe would occasion the most violent
super-purgations, glide harmlessly over their iron
stomachs. Ihave seen eight grains of very strong

tartar emetic produce no other effect than some
slight
Page-240
AND LOWER EGYPT. 211

slight retchings. I have sometimes administered,
with fear and trembling, very powerful medicines,
which made no more impression on my patients
than if they had drank a glass of water. The
monks for the propagation of the faith, who
maintained themselVes in those countries by the
practiceiof physio, successfully made use of a
purge for the natives, which they might have ad—
ministered with as much propriety to horses, and
which they compounded of aloes, the coloq’uin-
tida, and a quantity of gum. Of these they
formed pills, and a drachm was a dose.

The leaves of the senna, a plant indigenous in
the southern extremity of Egypt, are there taken
in large quantities without inconvenience, and
almost without effect. Perhaps fresh senna has
not the same purgative virtues as it has when
dried; like the manna, which is used as a substi-
tute for sugar in victuals and pastry at Kurdistan,
Diarbekir, Ispalmn, and other countries of Asia,
and of which the inhabitants consume a great
deal without being purged *.

I have already said, that diseases which attack
even the sources of generation were very common
in Egypt. They have found their way to the most
remote corners of it. The monks cured them

* See a Description of Arabia by N iétmhr, p. 129'.
r 2 very
Page-241
212 IRAVELS IN UPPER

very skilfully. They did not use mercury in theie
mode of treatment, but simply employed sudori-
ﬁes; and so far from putting their patients under
a regimen, they, on the contrary, advised them to
indulge in a variety of foods. The Arabians have
a way of curing those disorders peculiar to them-
selves. They dig a hole in the sand, and bury
themselves in it up to the neck; they remain in
this position without eating, exposed to the most
intense heat during the whole day. In the even-
ing only they take a little nourishment. Ihave
been assured that they resumed these scorching
situations for twenty or thirty days together.

But a very singular fact, and which, however,
Iby no means guarantee, although it has been
sworn to by many people, and among others by
the friars of Ne’gzzade', is the wonderful property
which they ascribe to the smoke of mastich 3“,
namely, that of killing every sick person who
breathes it. It is possible, nay probable, that
this is only a prejudice, but it is so deeply rooted,
and so generally received, that nobody doubts the
deadly quality of burnt mastich. As I said before,
they perfume with it the porous vessels of
unbaked earth, into which they pour the

* A resinous substance, which, in the islands of the Archi-
pelago, and particularly at Seio, oozes from the lentisk. Pi:-
racia lentirgm. Lin.

waters
Page-242
AND LOWER EGYPT. 213

waters of the Nile to cool. One day the monks
of Ne’guadé were employing themselves in this
operation at the gate of the convent, ignorant
that there were any sick people in their vicinity.
Immediately a woman in tears was seen issuing
out of a contiguous house, running with all her
might, and carrying in her arms an infant seized
with the small-pox. When she had put the child
in a place of safety, she returned to the convent,
uttering loud shrieks, and endeavouring to stir
up the people against the Fran/Es, who, she said,
had endeavoured to destroy her child. When
any one, accordingly, burns mastich in the open
air, he is careful to inform himself beforehand if
there are any sick people in the neighbourhood;
for they believe that, whatever the nature of the
disorder may be, the smoke of that rosin causes
instantaneous death whenever it is respircd,
Page-243
214; TRAVELS m UPPER

CHAP. XLIX.

lee (ﬂeets of‘ missions in Engi~Clznmefer of the
European 77207sz wlzo “aside llzere—Peiﬁaji of
Ilzose of NéguadeL—lee anilzor’sfare-well Io Isnm'in-
dbowxflli—lee gardens of Kons—Citron-trees—
Grapes— ﬂIeloiis —- [Voler-melon—Dalies—Donn:
~lee real acacia—Sesame, its oil, moile of pre—
paring iii—Diseases of tlze skin at Ilze period of
ﬁre swelling of ilze Nile.

THE name of Franks, which in the East denotes
all the Europeans of whatever country, held in
esteem among the Turks, despised in the cities of
Lower Egypt, was considered with horror by the
inhabitants of the Said. This hatred is instilled
by the Cophts, who are more numerous here than
in those districts farther to the north. They felt
sore at the arrival of some missionaries who came
from Italy purposely to preach against them, to
expose them openly as heretics and dogs, and to
damn them without pity.

Intolerance ofthis kind, these pious injuries, had
perhaps merit in the View of theology; but they
were extremely prejudicial to commerce and to the

increase of knowledge. Indeed, means ofthis na-
ture
Page-244
AND LOWER EGYPT. 215

ture intercepted communications already so embar-
rassed, and shut up the passage against Europeans
who were not missionaries, and who might reason~
ably have pretended to be more useful than Recol-
lects, who converted nobody, and rendered the
name of Fran/1’s contemptible, by a life supercili-
ously mendicant, and burdensome t0 the small
number of Egyptian Catholics; for alltheir science
consisted in making dupes; and as the people were
not endowed with sufﬁcient discernment to distin-
guish missionaries from any other Europeans, they
supposed we only went to Egypt in order to in-
sult the Cophts, and to exhibit them under the
most unfavourable colours. Numerous, because
they are, indeed, the true Egyptian race, and
powerful because they possess the conﬁdence of
the great, whose affairs they superintend, these
aborigines, so different from their ancestors, ex~
erted their inﬂuence, on the other hand, to re-
present the Franks as dangerous and despicable
men. From thence arose principally those ob-
stacles which the traveller into Egypt had perpe-
tually to overcome, so that these missionary esta-
blishments, formed for the purpose of advancing
the interests ofHeaven, were useful to nobody upon
earth, and became prejudicial to the progress of
science, by obstructing the way of resolute men,
who devoted themselves, in the midst ofdangers, to

the advancement of human knowledge, and to
P 4 which,
Page-245
216 TRAVELS IN UPPER

which, by the by, the monks were by no means in-
strumental. On the contrary, there is not an Euro-
pean traveller who has not had reason to complain
of hypocrites, whom distance and their acquaint-
ance with the country rendered more formidable.

No one has had better opportunities than I of
knowing the mind of pervcrse men living by im-
posture and quackery ; their greatest care was to
get their fellow—citizens, whose power they feared,

out of the way, and they neglected nothing to
get rid of them.

The superior of Ne’guadé had been informed of
the reception which I had met with from Isma'in-
Almu-A/i, and of his desire to retain me with him.
This plan was not to his purpose; he perceived
with uneasiness thatanotherEuropean, nota monk,
was about to enjoy a reputation which he wished to
reserve for himself alone; he determined to send
me out of the way. Whilst I was puzzling my
brains to ﬁnd out some expedient which should
rescue me from the over-abundant kindness of‘an
Arabian prince, whom it was not my plan either
to follow or to serve, the monk, who only devised
the means how to be mischievous and perﬁdious,
and who, very much against the grain, had become
oﬁiciously kindto me, was tormenting him’selfin his
turn how to counteract the Arabian’s desire to re-

tain
Page-246
AND LO'WER EGYPT. 217

tain me. We had learned that [main was at
hand; he stopped in the little village of Kamoule’,
a short distance to the south of Néguadé. The su-
perior went thither secretly ; and his conversation,
which an Arabian, to whom I had been of use in
my medical capacity, related to me, turned en-
tirely upon myself. The hypocrite began by com-
plaining that the conﬁdence of the prince, which,
in his own opinion, he had acquired by a long and
thorough devotcdness to his service, appeared to
diminish. “ It seems,” added he, “ that the arri~
“ val of a stranger has injured me with you; but
“ exclusive of this stranger’s belonging toa coun«
“ try where the inhabitants are impious, be assured
“ that you will be greatly deceived, if in keeping
“ him you expect to ﬁnd a physician; he never
“ was one; he is a soldier in disguise, and the
“ profession of physio is only a mask which he as-
“ sumes, in orderto visit with more facility, and to
“ know more perfectly, the country which you go-
“ vern with so much glory and dignity. The re-
“ medies which he might administer to you, pre»
“ pared by an ignorant hand, might poison instead
“ of healing you. You know that during the ten
“ years in which l have acted as your physician,
“ l have often relieved you by my prescriptions;
“ by my skill I have lately discovered new medi-
“ cines, which will restore your health and vi-
“ gout. I bring them with me; make the trial,

“ and
Page-247
zIS TRAVELS IN UPPER

“ and you will then be enabled to judge whether
“ lam worthy of your favour, and deserve the
“ preference to an adventurer.”

If this harangue had been addressed to abey, it
would have been all over with me; there would
have been no punishment severe enough to have
expiated a pretended imposition, and my death
would have been inevitable. The infamous monk
well knew to what he exposed me; but do the
feelings of humanity ever enter the bosoms of hy-
pocritical monks P And what did it signify to him
whether I perished or not, provided he could pre-
serve his reputation, and continue at his case, and
without a troublesome witness to the practice of
more serious deceptions ? Imm'z'ndiseovered no mark
of displeasure, and the friar had not even the satis-
faction of knowing whether his scheme had pro-
duced the desired effect. I heartily rejoiced at the
service which he had unintentionally performed for
me, and I affected to be sensible of his attentions,
which he never lavished on me so plentifully as
after he had betrayed me. At length the Arabian
prince arrived; he encamped as usual without the
precincts of Néguade’. Iwent to present myself
before him’in histent. He received me with marks
of distinction in the presence of the monk himself,
whom he left standing whilst he made me sit- by

his side, as a token of the contempt he felt for a
vile
Page-248
AND LOWER EGYPT. 219.

vile defamer; but he no longer urged my stay. I
acted as if it had never been spoken of, simply
asking of him assurances of protection and fa-
vour in facilitating the remaining travels which
I proposed to make in the principal towns of The—
ha'is, which I had not yet seen. He immediately
ordered letters of introduction to be made out,
and carried his attention so far, as to give orders to
all his overseers to defray my expenses at his cost
in every part of his dominions which 1 should
enter: of this generous foresight, a proof of the
Arabian’s greatness of mind, I did not avail my-
self. We parted very well pleased with each
other; Isma'z'n in not having me for his physician,
andl in not being employed to work the miracle
of restoring him to youth again.

I made haste to leave the convent of Néguadé,
the abode of treacherous hypocrisy, not without
having made the superior feel that the villany of
his conduct was known to me, and passed on to
K0215, where I arrived the 4th July in the evening.
.MaZ/zk'm Pocior, the same Copht at whose. house I
had already spent aday, received me‘very civilly,
and procured for me a lodging snﬂiciently com—
fortable, in which I proposed to wait, the depar—
ture of the caravan for Corsair. It had. been ar-

ranged some days before ; but. accounts were re-
ceived
Page-249
220 TRAVELS IN UPPER

ceived that the Arabs occupied the road which it
was to take, and the time for its setting off was
therefore delayed.

Kous is surrounded with fruit-trees, which form
very agreeable orchards. These trees are, in-
deed, planted without order; they do not present
that symmetrical arrangement which is generally
called the work of taste. Here it is the work of
nature, and those who love its beautiful simpli-
city, experience sensations more delicious, more
satisfying than the impression of astonishment pro-
duced by the efforts of art, when it attempts to
imitate nature. Besides, where can be found a
foliage more variegated, a shade more sweetly
scented? Fruits of every'kind ripen there, and
their boughs intermingle and blend together.
Their flowers, which the warmth of this climate
renders more odoriferous, exhale a fragrance which
they acquire no where else ; and under a tempera-
ture constantly heated, the real hot-house of Na-
ture, trees the most agreeable, and which in our
frozen climates languish in conﬁnement for the
greatest part of the year, are loaded uninterrupt-
edly with blossoms and fruits. The wealthy Poctor
conducted me into one of those gardens which be-
longed to him. Inever found myself before under
so delightful a shade. The air was ﬁlled with the

sweetest'
Page-250
AND LOWER EGYPT. 221

sweetest exhalations, amid which prevailed the
exquisite odour of the blossom of the citron-trees,
which were there in great numbers.

It was the season when grapes are found in most
abundanceu Long clusters were ﬁlled with large
purple fruit, the pulp of which was sweet and aro-
matic. This is the fruit most esteemed by the Opu-
lent, and that which they consider as the most
agreeable alleviation of the heat occasioned by the
climate. Common and water melons, fruits equally
refreshing, ﬁlled the market-places and streets of
Kous. 1 there ate of three sorts of melons, the
agour, resembling the melon of Europe, but whose
form is not always similar, some being round,
others oval, and a third sort extremely long ; the
draw, a species of cantaloupe, the rind of which.
is yellow, and the pulp of a yellowish white;
and lastly, the alzdelavoui (the slave of sweetness),
which is lengthened out, and remarkable on ac-
count of a rounded protuberance which it bears
close to the stalk. There is no one of all thOSe
melons of so good a quality as our choicest Euro-
pean melons. The greater part of them are in-
sipid. The cantaloupe, more famous elsewhere
for its ﬂavour, is there very tasteless. That kind,
the name of which would seem to indicate the
softest and sweetest pulp, is called the slave of
:weelrzess, only because it rcquires a great deal of

sugar
Page-251
222 TRAVELS m UPPER

sugar to make it palatable. The water-melons,
on the contrary, are excellent in Upper Egypt, as
I have already observed. I found a species or va~
riety of them at Kous, which I had not seen till
then; its form is very long, its sides are but
slightly marked, and it swells to a very large size.
This species, which is not inferior to the rest, the
Arabians call 7212272; it is also the name of the man-
gousfe, the ichreumon of the ancients, a four-
footed animal, celebrated with so little reason.

Dates had begun to ripen; new ones had been
eaten from the beginning of the month, but they
were still scarce. The palm-tree which produces
them, overtops with its shady summit all the
places of Egypt ; whereas the down, another spe-
cies of palm-tree, peculiar to Theba'is, more wild,
and for which a single slender stem is not sufﬁ-
cient as for the date—tree, loves not to be so 0105::
to habitations, but ﬂourishes better in the ﬁelds,
which it overshadows and adorns.

The real acacia, which distils gum arabic from
its trunk and branches “, grows commonly on the
parched and almost barren plains of these identical
parts of Upper Egypt. Its port, for the most part
stunted; its trunk crooked and short; its branches
long and few, with narrow and thinly scattered

’* ﬂﬁmom m'lm'ca. Lin.
foliage
Page-252
AND LOWER EGYPT. 29.3

foliage almost bare; a very rough bark, and of a
deep brown ; long white prickles, with which it is
beset, give it a harsh and withered look, which
induce you to mistake it for one of those leaﬂess
trees, and whose sap chilled by the frost, during
our winters, reduces to a state approaching death.
Very small ﬂowers, white or tinged with yellow,
and almost without smell, are but ill qualiﬁed to
make up for what it wants in point of appearance
and foliage. This tree, which the Egyptians call
szmt/z, and not sum/2, as I observe most authors spell
it, will never then be reckoned among the number
of ornamental trees, but its usefulness will ever
make it considered as one of the most valuable.
Its wood, of a deep red colour, is hard, and ca-
pable of receiving a beautiful polish. Its seed, en-
closed in a husk very like that ofa lupin, yields a
red colour, which is made use of in dying mo—
rocco. The goats are very fond of this fruit,
which, in the Arabian tongue, is called I’m-at ;
pounded together with the husk before it comes to
maturity, it affords an astringent in pharmacy,
known by the denomination of essence of acacia.
But the gum which distils from the numerous cre«
vices of the bark of the acacia, or from incisions
made in the trunk and greater branches, is an ob-
jcct of importance in commerce and manufactures,
in which great quantities ofit are consumed. Ex-
cessive heat is requisite in the production of gum

arabic.
Page-253
224 , TRAVELS IN UPPER

arabic. Indeed, although the acacia thrives in
the more northern parts of Egypt, yet it produces
no gum; in Theba'is, on the contrary, where
the temperature of the air is scorching, Ihave
seen it entirely covered with hard and coagulated
tears of this mucilaginous juice.

In more skilful hands than those of the Egyp-
tian husbandmen, the acacia might become a
powerful mean' of restoring to cultivation the
lands of Upper Egypt, which sterility has taken
possession of, and the soil of which, ﬁt for culti-
vation, is covered over with vast layers of intrud-
ing sand. However dry or clayey the ground
concealed by the sand may be, yet the gum-tree
may be planted and brought forward there, pro-
vided the roots fasten in a bed of vegetable earth ;
the sandy layer which might surround the bottom
of the trunk would not injure its growth. F0-
rests of the acacia-tree would soon bring back ve-
getation and inhabitants to a soil which different
circumstances seem to have condemned for ever to
a barren depopulation; and during the period—till
cultivation shall again ﬂourish, the gum arabic
would produce so advantageous a revenue, as to
leave no room to regret the expense of such a
plantation; besides, the excellent wood which it
might supply, would be no small indemniﬁcation

in a country where wood is so very scarce.
At
Page-254
AND LOWER EG'YPr. 225

At Kcus I was presented at a dinner, for the
first time, with la/zine’. It is thus that the Egyptians
call the dregs of the oil of the sésame, to which
they add honey and Citron juice. This ragout is
much in vogUe, but, in truth, without deserving
it; for, disagreeable to the eye from its colour and
its half-liquid consistency, it is still more so to the
palate from its taste. The oil which is extracted
from the seed of the sésame, and which is called
in Arabic si/ilc/z, is also highly valued in Egypt.
It is preferred to that of the olive, to which it is
greatly inferior; and, in all likelihood, Europeans
will never consider it ﬁt for any other use than to
employ in the lamp and the frying—pan.

It is not only otlatc that the sésame and its oil
have been held in repute in the East. The Baby-
lonians (the ancient inhabitants of Bagdad), ac-
cording to Herodotus, made use of no other oil
than that which they extracted from the sésamc *.
Pliny mentions it as being equally unﬁt to eat or
to burn *l‘; and Dioscorides says that the Egyp-
tians made many uses of it i. It is likely that the
present inhabitants ot the same country, very igno-
rant in the manipulation of oils, since that which
'they extract from tne olive is very bad, and ﬁt only

"' Lib. i. French translation, and note of Citizen Larcher.
{- Lib xviii. cap. SO. 1’ Lib. i. cap. 121.
VOL. III. a for
Page-255
2.26 lRAVELS 1N UPPER

for the composition of soap and the use of manu~
factures, know not how to impart to the oil ofthe
sésame the qualities which it is capable of, and
which in all probability it formerly possessed.

Natural to the warmest climates of the Old
Continent, the plant which was then called semsem
is known in Europe by the name of sesame, and
sometimes by that of jugcoline, which has no con-
nexion with its original denomination. It re-
sembles the fox-glove in a great measure 3*. Its
cultivation is very general in Egypt, and over
several cantons of the Levant; it even begins to
ﬂourish in Italy; but I have seen the seeds of the
sesame there, which were much smaller and worse
ﬁlled than those of Africa. This plant alsothrives
very well in French Guiana, a colony neglected,
and of no reputation, but from which, however,
France might derive great advantage and consi-
derable wealth. The negroes there cultivated the
sésame in their gardens, and extracted from it an
oil, which proved a balm to wretches equally

worn out by excess of labour and by privatidn of
comfort.

Exclusive of their economical properties, the
sésame and its preparations are besides in use

* Digitalis arz'emalz': :emmum dicta. Tournef. Inst. Rei herb.
Serémum indicum. Lin.

amongst
Page-256
AND LOWER EGYPT. 2-3.7

amongst the Egyptians as physio and as cosmetics.
Their women fancy that nothing is better adapted
to give them that emﬁonpoint which they all wish
for, to clean their skin, and to give it bloom and
freshness; to preserve the beauty of their hair,
and also to increase the quantity of their mill:
when they become mothers. Medicine also ﬁnds
in it real or supposed means of cure in several
diseases. If these healing virtues are not more
efficacious in other maladies than in the inﬂam-
matory ones of the eyes, for which the Egyptian
physicians recommend this oil, upon my word
they will not acquire much conﬁdence, for there
is not a country in the world where the organs of
sight are more frequently affected with numerous
diseases, to such a degree, that eyes perfectly sound
are seldom to be met with, excepting, perhaps,
those of the women, which their veils defend

against the keen and penetrating impressions of
the air.

I have already, in the former part ofthis work,
pointed out some of the causes of those disorders
of the eyes really endemical in Egypt, and which
render this country, excellent in other respects,
an unpleasant and dangerous abode. I have given
it as my opinion, that the chief of these causes was
the great quantity of water with which the streets
and houses of the cities were sprinkled several

(1 2 i times
Page-257
223 TRAVELS 1N UPPER

times a day, in order to moderate the heat, and to
cool the air which was respired. When earth,
violently heated, is moistened so plentifully, it
sends up a great quantity of nitrous and inﬂam—
matory vapours, which cannot fail to impair and
injure the sight: but it is impossible to include the
custom of the inhabitants, to sleep in the open
air, among the many circumstances which make
ophthalmy and blindness so common in Egypt, 25
many persons have supposed and written. Indeed,
although the natives of Upper Egypt, where the
heat of the sun by day occasions them to sigh for
the cooling breezes of the evening, have no other
»bed than the terrace of their huts, yet they have
nothing to fear from that habit, for they wrap up
the whole body so carefully, and particularly the
head, that you must be an Egyptian to escape
stiﬂing under the folds of cloth with which they
cover and shut up their face, so as even to inter-
cept respiration. Besides, it is well known that
the people of ancient Egypt did not in general
sleep so much exposed, and nevertheless they
were equally subject to blindness and the ciph-
thalmy.

It was now, as I have before observed, the time
of the swelling of the Nile. The goal/e, that mi—
raculous dew, which, aceordingto the belief of the
Egyptians, puriﬁes the atmosphete, and preserves

from
Page-258
AND L0\VER EGYPT. 229

from corruption those seeds and roots which are
exposed to be moistened by it, had fallen, and
they were still talking at Kous of its wonderful
effects. This circumstance gave me an opportu-
nity of examining a cuticular disease, attributed
to this dew of one night, and which is the natu—
ral consequence of an excessive heat at that season
of the year. I saw several people whose face and
body were covered in many places with large
pimples, which they call [mire Ni/z' (sprouts or
seeds of the Nile), and which resemble those of
an ordinary eruption, only that they rise much
more considerably. This indisposition, which is
by no means dangerous, and which goes oﬁ“ of
itself, is perhaps the same with the pelegm of the
Milanese, and the mal de la Rosa of the Asturias.
I have heard it asserted that it attacked strangers
more commonly than the natives of the country ;
notwithstanding, out of four Europeans which

formed our party, not one of us was affected
by it.

‘33
Page-259
TRAVELS m UPPER

l»)
L»)
O

CHAP. L.

Trees/wry of a CofﬁI—C/zamcter of Me men of 17m!
nation—Dangerous zmderﬁmzd dea/ings wizieﬁ ob-
i’ige lire ﬂat/2w 1‘0 give up 1/16 voyage of the Red
Sea— [Vamp—New war in Upper Egpt—iVestem
side of ilze ancient city of T/zebes—Goumei—
IVie/t’ed men by w/zom 1/2025 village is inﬁaln'ted—
Fragments of anlz'guizy—Disagreealile nigh passed
at Goumei—A sick man—Physician of Ike eountry
—Route from Gournei to Ne‘guadé.

AN inconceivable fatality seemed to detain me in
Egypt wheneverl attempted to leave it. Already
had my journey into Abyssinia miscarried at the
moment in which I was entering on it, and similar
motives again obliged me to give up my voyage
to the Red Sea. 1 found myself surrounded by
villains who conspired to make me their dupe
and their victim. The Catholic Copht of K'ous,
.Mz/ljim Poctor, who had so often promised to see
me conducted to Cosseir, and who had welcomed
me at ﬁrst with the appearance of cordiality, was,
like all his fellow-citizens, nothing else but a
traitor, and the more dangerous from inveterate
habits of perﬁdy and dissimulation. The Mameluc
who commanded at Kous often cautioned me to

be
Page-260
AND LO\VER EGYPT. 231

be upon my guard. He knew Poctor, and looked
upon him as a rogue of whom I could not be too
distrustful. I hereilfeel it incumbent on me to say,
that for the HIOSt part I have had better reason to
applaud the conduct of the Mamelucs than thcna-
tives ongypt. With a character more rough and
unpolished, these strangers possessed a certain
pride and a blunt harshness which rendered them
indeed formidable to men subject to their despotic
sway, but which, by inspiring them with a kind of
greatness of soul, gave you full dependance on
their protection and promises; whilst the Copht,
dark and designing, insinuating and deceitful,
distinguished himself by the cringing and submis-
sive deportment of the most abject slave.

The attention which the Kiasclzefpaid me, was a
bridle on the robbers into whose hands I had fallen.
But an order from Cairo, in removing him from
his command, deprived me of his support, and the
same men, who but a moment before trembled at
his feet, no longer paid him any respect when they
knew he had lost all authority. Parlor, in order to
rob me, had associated with a Turkish merchant,
and it must be acknowledged that they were a
couple ofthe most accomplished liars and swindlers.
The preparations for myjourncy to Corsair afforded
them innumerable pretences to ask me for treats and
money. The Copht had alreadyreceived a telescope,

(L4 :1 pair
Page-261
232 TRAVELS IN UPPER

a pair ofpistols, and several bottles otliqueurs, and
there was not one of my little moveables which he
did not express a desire to have. He boasted greatly
to me of the pains which his friend, the Turkish
merchant, was taking to expedite myjourney, and
he made me promise to acknowledge services so
important. I sent accordingly to the latter another
valuable telescope; but he refused it, giving meto
understand that as he was not the captain ofa ship,
a telescope would be useless to him, but that. he
would very willingly accept money instead of it.

He had already taken but too much from me.
Sometimes he asked it to secure the hire of the
camels which were to carry me, sometimes to make
an advance to the guide of the caravan; at anotheri
time his exertions required a salary; at length he
had chouscd me out ofﬁve and twenty chequins in
one way and another, without the slightest appear-
ance of any further preparation to proceed. A ca—
ravan was preparing, they told me, to set off; some
Arabians dispersed throughout the desert which it
was obliged to cross, had retarded its departure; a
few days after there was no caravan; and some ﬂeet
camels were to convey me very Speedily to the ﬂat
shore of the Red Sea. But it was requisite, ac-
cording to this new arrangement, that I should
leave my baggage with the Turkish merchant,
who was to forward it to me by a future caravan.

The
Page-262
AND LOWER EGYPT. 233

The snare was a little too gross, and ﬁnding it
altogether impossible to trust to such people, I
told them, that, unwilling to submit any longer to
their roguery, 1 had given up all thoughts of my
journey to Cosseir. This determination did not
at all accord with the views of Factor and of the
Turk, and they did all they could to persuade me
from it. But when l reclaimed the money which
I had advanced for a journey now given up, they
exclaimed bitterly against me. According to their
account, I was still indebted to them for what they
hadldonc. I threatened to lay my complaints
before the Arabian prince, Isma'z'rz-Aliou-A/i; they
then brought me back ﬁve chcquins. I gave up
the remaining twenty rather than continue any
longer exposed to the plots of these two rascals,
and determined to continue my route towards the
ruins of the ancient city of Thebes.

As I was collecting my effects in the sort of
chamber which I occupied,I perceived that a species
oflargc wasp, with violet-coloured wings, had built
its nest in the inside of the wooden case ofa large
marincr's compass; the honey-comb, nearly of an
oval form and pierced with a round opening in the
middle, was upon the ground; each cell contained
a maggot resembling a small worm, ofa meadow-
, green colour. Around this honey-comb there were
others which had been begun and left unﬁnished.

The
Page-263
TRAVELS IN UPPER

The excessive heat of the sun rendered the
country through which I was passing truly a
torrid region. During my stay at Kous the ther—
mometer of Réaumur, placed in the shade, rose
to thirty-ﬁve degrees.

We left Kom the 17th July, accompanied by
four Arabs. We followed the Nile on the eastern
side on horseback. We stopped in the middle of
the day at a village, the name of which, Nouzm'ie’,
indicates that it is peopled by Cophts or Christians
of Egypt. We soon reached Karmzk, a miserable
village, whose cottages would serve to heighten
the magniﬁcence otthe splendid ruins which sur-
round them, if there were any thing in the world
to be compared with the remains of Thebes, that
famous city of antiquity which was celebrated by
Homer. Luxor, another village, built at the
southern extremity of the seat which this illus-
trious city held on this side ofthe river, lies about
a league farther off. It would have required more
time than I had to spare, and more safety than
was to be found in this soil, covered over with
ruins and highway robbers, to have minutely
examined relics which immortality had preserved
amid the shock of ages and the rage of barbarism.
It would be no less diﬂicult to describe the sensa-
tions which the sight of objects so grand, so ma:
jestic, raised within me. It was not a simple admi-

ration
Page-264
AND LOWER. EGYPT. 35

ration merely, but an ecstacy which suspended the
use of all my faculties. I remained for some time
immoveable with rapture, and I felt inclined more
than once to prostrate myself in token of venera-
tion before monuments, the rearing of which ap-
peared to transcend the strength and genius ofman.

Obelisks, colossal and gigantic statues, avenues
formed by rows of sphinxes, and which may still be
traced, although the greater part of the statues are
mutilated or concealed under the sand, porticoes of
a prodigious elevation, among which there is one
of the height of a hundred and seventy feet by two
hundred feet breadth ; immense colonnades, the pil-
lars ofwhich are twenty and some thirty-one feet in
circumference; colours still wonderful on account
oftheir brilliancy; the granite and marble lavished
0n the buildings, stones of high dimensions sup-
ported by capitals and forming the roof of these
magniﬁcent ediﬁces, in a word, thousands of co-
lumns overthrown, occupy a space of a vast extent.

Let the so much boasted fabrics of Grecce and
Rome come and bow down before the temples and
the palaces of the Thebes of Egypt. Its loftyruins
are still more striking than their gawdy ornaments;
its gigantic wrecks are more majestic than their
perfect preservation. The glory of the most cele-
brated fabrics vanishes before the prodigics of

Egyptian
Page-265
:36 TRAVELS m unza

Egyptian architecture, and to describe them justly

a

man must possess the genius of those who con-

ceived and executed them, or the eloquent pen of
a Bossuet *.

The

9* Having retired in the evening, to one of the cottages of

Luxor, my imagination still ﬁlled with the wonders I had seen,

I again read with enthusiasm the passage from Bossuet, in which

he draws, after the narrative of Thevenot, an hasty sketch of the
ruins of Thebes. It is impossible to speak in a more elevated
style, of works which command admiration and respect. I

think it will gratify the reader to be presented with this passage,
which will help to give him an idea of places worthy of the

pencil of the French orator.

H

H

‘6

‘t

H

‘6

H

H

0‘

H

H

u

‘6

S‘

(S

Ct

“ The works of the Egyptians were made to resist the effects
of time: their statues were colossal; their pillars were im-
mense. Egypt aimed at vast objects, and sought to strike
the eye at a distance, but always gratifying it by justness of
proportion. Temples and palaces, to this day almost entire,
where these pillars and statues are innumerable, have been
discovered in the Said, which you know well is the name of ‘
Theba'is. One palace above all is admired, whose remains .
seem to have subsisted only in order to eFface the glory of all
the greatest productions of human power and skill. Four
alleys extending farther than the eye can follow them, and ‘
terminating at each end in sphinxes of a composition as rare ‘
as their size is remarkable, serve as avenues to four portieoes
whose height astonishes the beholder. What magniﬁcence
and what extent! Indeed of all those who have described the
prodigious ediﬁce no one has had time to make the tour of it,
nor are they even certain of having seen the half of it; but

all that they did see there was surprising.
“ A ball which apparently stood in the middle of this superb
' “ palace,
Page-266

Page-267
4e

\ «w nlmlm
"' N

‘ , ‘mlinimmk

MIIT'MWMi‘Qq
, "   .. If

 

. ﬁll’éjhﬂi lzr 1..V[rcX-n’ale .

n
Page-268
AND LO\VER EGYPT. 237

The Arabian who commanded at Luxor for
Imzuzu-Abozz-A/i, and to whom I presented a letter
from that prince, received me very well. We
mounted our horses on the 18th, and made, under
his escort, the tour of the ruins of the ancient re-
sidence of the kings of Egypt. The magniﬁcence
which it displayed, and the extent ofits circumfe-
rence, exceed all belief. But new events occurred
to hurry me away from ruins of which I intended
to examine the most remarkable parts and to take
drawings of duxn. 'The only one rvhkﬂil had
time to get delineated is given in plate XXXVII.
which represents a singular eolonnade of that por-
ﬁon ofthe nuns wlnch mnrounds duzxdhage of
Luxor. Upper Egypt was again about to become
the theatre of a war between the Mamelucs. Some
Bays belonging to Isma'z'u's vanquished party had
found means to penetrate into Theba'is, as far as
the Red Sea, and to acquire a sufﬁcient number of
partisans there to occasion some alarm to the victo-
rious Mourat Bey. The latter sent a small army,
commanded by a Bey ofhis own family, to extermh

“ palace, was supported by a hundred and twenty columns, of
“ six fathoms in thickness, and lofty in proportion, and inter-
“ mingled with obelisks which so many ages have not been able
“ to lay low. Even colours which yield the soonest to the
“ power of time still endure amid the ruins of this wonderful
“ ediﬁce and preserve their vivacity; so well 'did Egypt know
“ how to impress the character of immortality on all her
“ works.” Dirt. on Univ. Hm. par: iii. sect. iii.

nate
Page-269
238 TRAVELS IN UPPER

nate the remainder of his enemies. [was between
two bands of combatants, equally undisciplined
and untractable, and both disposed to commit the
greatest excesses. The disorder attached to these
troops, of which the men who composed them
possessed none of the qualiﬁcations of a true so]-
dier but his bravery, infected the districts through
which their cohorts passed. Themselves plunder-
ing and destroying, they left the country open to
plunder and devastation. Robbers stripped travel-
lers by land, and pirates seized the boats on the
Nile. Clans ofArahs renewed ancient quarrels, and
had frequent skirmishes together; one village fought
against another; in a word, on these occasions,
violence, confusion, andlicentiousness, were carried
to their highest pitch; and the stranger unpro-
tected, because authority no longer existed, could
not fail to fall a victim in the general convulsion.

It was impossible for me to remain any longer
in the places which the superb city ot'Thebes for-
merly ﬁlled. These cantons, very dangerous even
during the most tranquil periods, were on the eve
of becoming unpassable for every one but robbers.
Neithercould I think any more of advancing to-
wards the cataracts. Exelusive of the perils I
should run from a more barbarous population in
that southern country, the enemies of Mourat,
into whose hands I might be delivered, would

certainly
Page-270
AND LOWER EGYPT. 239

certainly have destroyed me, as being one of his
creatures. Iaccordingly took, very much against
my inclination, the only step which remained,
that of going down the Nile again, the ferocity of
the inhabitants softening a little, as well as the
darkness oftheir colour, in proportion as you re-
turn towards the north ; besides, Ihad less to fear
in falling in with the partisans of Mourat Bey.

The Arabian Sclzeick of Luxor urged me not to
delay my departure, butl wished to go once more
to the western bankofthe river to Gournez', in order
to View the remains of the ancient city of Thebes,
which were on that side. This point ofThebai's was
considered as the most difﬁcult of approach on ac~
count ofthe multitude ofrobbers by whom alone it

was peopled. I have heard the Xian/ref of Kous say,
that he dared not travel there with his small party

ofMamelucs and soldiers. The Scl’zeiclc of Luxor,
one of those whose upright and hospitable beha-
viour appeared to a greater advantage in a country
where they are accustomed to promise much and
to perform nothing; this Schick, I say, also endea-
voured to dissuade me from my plan; and when
he saw that I was resolved not to give it up, he
pointed out to me, with much polite condescen-
sion, the prudential arrangements which might
contribute to my safety. This gallant man would
accompany me even to the boat which carried me

Of).
Page-271
24.0 TRAVELS IN UPPER

on the morning of the agth before Cozmzei to the
west of the Nile.

I was about one hundred and thirty-ﬁve or one
hundred and forty leagues from Cairo, when I
gave over advancing in a southern direction.

The place where I disembarked was planted
with gum acacias. Although the village was
not far removed from the river, I requested, and
this by the advice of the Sclzeic/c of Lzzxor, the
Scheick of Gournei, for whom I also had a letter
from Isma'z'zz, to come himself to the bank of
the Nile. He arrived immediately, and con-
ducted me to the most pitiful, the most frightful.
place, from its miserable appearance, which I
have yet met with. The huts which compose it,
vilely constructed of mud, are not higher than a
man, and are merely covered with some branches
of the palm-tree. And the men! I never had
seen any of so dire an aspect. Half black, the
body almost entirely naked, their miserable rags
covering only a part of it; their physiognémy
gloomy and hagard with ferociousness; following
no trade, without taste for agriculture, and, like
the savage animals of the parched mountains near
which they live, appearing to live solely by rapine;
their whole aspect had something terrifying in it.
The Arab who represented 1mm?" there, had no

great
Page-272
AND LOWER EGYPT; 241

great authority, and what he told us ofthe horde
of Gom‘nei was but ill adapted to inspire courage.

My companions, whose imagination had been
struck by all that they had heard related of this
truly detestable place, appeared very much alarm-
ed ; the Syrian interpreter, as cowardly as villain-
ous, shed tears of dismay; all blamed me severely,
and doubted not of our destruction when they saw

me seated upon the sand in the midst of a dozen
of these rascally fella/is, pulling out my purse
every minute, and paying the price of the idols or
antique medals to all those who brought me any.
I by these means made a tolerably large collection
of fragments of antiquity ; and I must say, in fa-
vour of the inhabitants of Gozmzei, that they ob-
served the same good faith and precision in these
little dealings, which occupied us a great part of
the day, as if they had been the most upright
people in the world.

Almost all the medals which I purchased were
of very small value. The greatest number of them
were copper, and Ptolemz'es. There were three or
{our golden coins, but they were Arabian. Very
beautiful cornelians arecommonlyfound among the
ruins, ready cut and ﬁt for the engraver. Amongst
the objects of antiquity which were presented to
me, a man shewcd me one‘ for which he demanded

VOL. III. R an
Page-273
24.2 TRAVELS IN UPPER

an extravagant pricc, although it was a triﬂing
thing, an amulet of baked earth representing a
ﬁgure with two faces. But the possessor had the
address to attach an imaginary value to it, and to
draw thence a small revenue, founded, like all
others of the same sort, on folly and credulity.
The women considered this talisman carried about
them, as an infallible means of procuring safe
deliverance in child-birth, and they even paid
thirty medinas for the hire of it for a single day.

The western part of the ancient city of Thebes
does not yield in magniﬁcence to that which is se-
parated from it by the Nile; but the monuments
are not so well preserved, and the wrecks are there
heaped up in the greatest confusion. Some pieces
stillremain as unshakcn witnesses ofthe astonishing
solidity ofthe ediﬁces which werethere constructed.
The front of the walls of an ancient temple quite
advered over with hieroglyphics is yet to be seen ;
a superb portico, colossal statues, among which
are to be distinguished fragments of the statue of
Memnon, which uttered sounds at the rising ofthe
sun, and which was considered in former titties as a
miracle. I could only hastily view, with looks of
admiration, these valuable remains, the greater part
of which I only perceived from afar; [ shall there—
fore dwell no longer on them here, than it was pos-
sible for me to remain on the places themselves.

I was
Page-274
AND LOWER EGYPT. 243

I was very desirous to visit some Spacious grottos,
cut in the rock, about a league to the west of Gour~
net, the sepulchres of the ancient monarchs of
Thebes. But I could ﬁnd nobody who would un-
dertake to conduct me thither; the Sc/zez'cl’ himself
assured me, that the people of Goumei being at war
with some neighbouring villages, a few of whose
inhabitants they had lately killed, it would beim~
prudent to expose myself with guides taken from
among them, who, far from affording me protec-
tion, would rather be the cause of bringing down
upon my head the effects ofan implacable revenge.

If the whole day which we passed in a place of
such bad repute was somewhat disagreeable, the
night was extremely unpleasant. One ofthe most
spacious, and at the same time one of the least sub-
stantial cottages had been assigned us, in which we
were very closely conﬁned. We had taken every
precaution in our power to guard against surprise
or attack from without, but not one of us had
thought of another species of mischievous beings
within doors. Scarcely had we stretched ourselves
along our carpet upon the ground, than a legion
ofrats, of an extraordinary size, covered our apart-
merit; we felt them continually running over us
and biting us every moment. This was not all : a
very tempestuous wind had risen ; our frail cottage
could not resist its violence ; every now and then

R 2 it
Page-275
244 TRAVELS m UPPER

it blew down large particles, the greater part of
which fell upon our bodies. I in particular re—
ceived upon me a large iron pike which the shaking
of our roost tore from the ceiling. 1f the point
had been turned towards me, it must have pierced
my body. At length, in the midst of the noise
with which the wind deafened us, we heard the
tumbling of a wall of the cottage, which very for—
tunately burst outwards. Fearful ofbeing crushed
by what remained, we hastened out of this place of
wretchedness and suffering, and passed hulfofthe
night walking in the open air, with our muskets
' upon our shoulders.

The 85/1356]: 61 Bella! of Gonrnei (who in Egypt
is the chief man of the place, and nearly the same
as the mayors ofthe villages were in France) had
me called to his house. He was afﬂicted with a
disorder which could not be cured except by a dif-
ﬁcult operation. I took care not to confess to him
that his cure was beyond my skill; I gave him some
medicines which could do him neither good nor
harm, but from which, however, it was essential
to our safety to promise him the best effects.

I found a physician of the country by the side of
the patient. He for ever carried his knowledge of
physic under his arm. It consisted ofa large vo-
lume written in the Arabic language, containing

receipts
Page-276
AND LOWER EGYPT. 245

receipts for every disease. Whenever he was con—
sulted, he turned over his repository, and never
gave an answer till he had met with a passage
which he thought might apply to the case of his
patient. One of my people who wastroubled with
ague~ﬁts, seemed to address him with a tone of
conﬁdence. After being informed ofthe symptoms
which attended the fever, this unpractised physi-
cian sought a long while in his book, which in
similar cases prescribed acid fruits, such as lemons,
pomegranates, 85c. Sac. &c. and the smoke of a
burnt ﬁsh bone, which the aguish man ought to
inhale. But, shutting the book, he added, from
his own stock of science, “ There is no remedy
“ more effectual against fevers than written alla-
“ meters ;" that is to say, small billets on which
certain words are written, and which are either
swallowed or carried about as a charm.

This quack, who had been brought from a great
distance to cure the chief of Gournei, did not so
much as know his disease, although he had been
with him several days. When I had gone away
he followed me to ask what I thought of the case.
“ Look,” said I to him, “ in your book under the
“ article ﬁstulas, and you will discover the nature
“ of that disease, and perhaps the remedy; but
“ lose no time, for the gangreneabegins to appear,
“ and in a very short period your patient will die,

R 3 “ if
Page-277
24,6 TRAVELS m UPPER

“ if you do not make haste and stop its progress.”
Upon this my sagacious friend, knowing all the
dangerto which (in his own country) he was ex?
posed, should he fail of a cure, did not long hesi,
tate about forming the resolution which seemed
most likely to secure his safety ; he did not even
revisit his patient, and disappeared without saying
a word to any one, but always taking care to carry
his knowledge under his arm.

If it was not prudent to travel to Gozmzez', it was
not easy to get away from it. The boats of the
Nile shunned its shore, which was an object ofgea
neral terror; and the malignity of its inhabitants
had involved it in war with its neighbours, and
particularly with the people of Kamoule', a village
about half way to Négum/é, in which they had very
lately murdered one ofthe natives. According to
the savage custom of the country, it was requisite
that blood should ﬂow at Gozarnei to avenge that
ofKaizzozzlé, without their caring whether this blood,
which a blind vengeance sought to spill, was that of
the murderer or ofany other person. No one dared
to expose himself to become the victim of a resent-
ment, which time does not obliterate, and which
‘can only be extinguished in blood. Thus the
whole village refused to otheiate as guides, and the
Arabian Salim/t himself was afraid to undertake to
Conduct us to Négugdg’. At last a man appeared,

‘6‘ and
Page-278
AND LOWER EGYPT. 24,7

and undertook to direct our course. The Arab
supplied us with horses, and accompanied us about
a quarter ofa league; but notwithstanding all my
importunity, he refused to advance farther. We
were then left under the protection ofa man half
naked, walking a-foot, with no other arms than a
stick, and whose unfavourable appearance made us
apprehensive that we should meet with more like
himself. He took us offthe plain in order to avoid
the vicinity of Kamoule’. We climbed those steep
mountains which form a chain of rocks along the
cultivated districts of Upper Egypt. We passed by
narrow straits and irregular windings, through
the wildest of deserts, as no trace was to be seen
either of men or of animals; and a pile of rocks
heaped upon each other, thoroughly concealed the
inhabited part of Egypt. A road like this, difﬁcult,
and often dangerous for our horses, was by no
means adapted to dispel our fears. Our guide, in
conjunction with our hosts at Gournei, might have
carried us thither to lead us into some ambuscade;
however, after journeying for six hours in these
unpleasant roads, we descended into the plain near
Néguadé, from whence we passed over to Kous.
Our conductor followed us thither, and very well
satisﬁed at having escaped his enemies, he was un-
willing to expose himself again in their neighbour-
hood, but followed the Nile with his horses on the
eastern side, till hearrived opposite to hishabitation.

R4
Page-279
248 TRAVELS 1N UPPER

CHAP. LI.

Cop/’2; of Ken's—Sheep of Yemen—Sheep of Eg ”ht—-
Goats—Hogs—Zlfotives wine/z Im've induced I/ze
Egyptians to exclude t/zese animals from being a
part of llzeir food—Crowdi/e—Lizrzrd—Fmg-
ments of ancient stones and glasses—Stones anti-
dofes to poison.

I HAD scarcely returned to the apartment which
I had already occupied at K0215 when Mel/[32m Poc~
tar called to see me with all the show of friend-
ship, and to congratulate me on my good fortune
in having given up the journey to Cossez'r, because,
as he told me, the Turkish merchant, to whom he
thought he might have trusted, had laid a plan to
have me robbed upon the road. I did not pay
much attention to the conversation ofa man with
whose treachery I was so well acquainted. The
Turkish merchant was no longer at Kous, and]
was very sure that if he had been there, and Factor
absent, he would have told me the selﬂsame story
of the other with a view to extract some fresh prei
sent out of me. But the Copht introduced one
very probable circumstance into his tale, namely,
that my Christian interpreter had engaged in the
plot contrived by the Turk, and Pastor might

have
Page-280
AND LOWER EGYPT. '249

have added, by himself. I resolved to dissemble;
the Copht had inﬂuence in the country, and ifI
could not depend upon the sincerity of his pro-
testations of devotedness aud service, Ihad rea-
son to fear that he might become a very dangerous
enemy.

On repaying his visit I saw in his court-yard se-
veral sheep of Yemen, 3 species the body of which
is slender and very long, the head small in propor-
tion to the body, the forehead arched, the ears de-
pending, and the ﬂeece rather short and silky-down
than real wool. This sheep, though not precisely
the same as the adimain or great sheep of Senegal
am! ﬁre Indies, of which Buﬂ'on takes notice *, re-
sembles it in so many reSpects, that the slight dis-
tinctions which subsist between these two animals
appear to arise rather from local circumstances
than from a perpetual variety. Besides, these
sheep ofArabia do not form a part of the ﬂocks of

Egypt ; those which I saw at Kous had been sent
to Poe/or as curiosities.

A country whose extent is entirely measured la-
titudinally, whose climate, soil, and even inhabit-
ants present sensible gradations, will naturally
contain productions modiﬁed by diﬁerence of si-
tuations. This impression, occasioned by a tem-

’ Natural History of misdrupeds. Ovi: Guineemix. Lin.
peraturc
Page-281
£50 TRAVELS IN UPPER

ﬁ

perature more or less warm, and by its aridity or
moisture, will also be perceptible in the animals
which man has appropriated to himself. The
greater part of those of the same species which
the Egyptian reared are not alike in the north
and in the south. It has been observed, that the
race of sheep in Lower Egypt is remarkable on
account ofthe size of their tails, and that they are
known by the title of Barbary slzeep *. From a
mixture of this latter sort with the common sheep,
which is very frequent amongst animals of this
species living in a domesticated state, in warm
climates, an intermediary race has sprung up, and

is scattered over Turkey, Greece, Provence, 8w.
3:0. 8m.

Above Cairo neither the same rams nor the same
sheep are to be seen as in Lower Egypt. The race
is much stronger and larger. The head of these
animals is there proportionally much greater, and
the tail much bigger, more ﬂattened above and bare
below for about halfits length. A large fetlock
hangs under the neck ; their horns are short and
crooked, their legs are not so high, in proportion,
as in the other sorts; and the testicles of the male
sometimes drag upon the ground. A thick ﬂeece
quite loads them. When it is sheared they do
not touch the wool upon the head, which is soon

it See page 68 of thesecond volume of this work.
covered
Page-282
AND LOWER EGYPT. 25!

covered again to the very tip of the snout. This
species of bushy curled hair, through which they
see with diﬂiculty, gives them a very singular
physiognomy. Their colour for the most part is
- brown bordering upon red, the shade of which be-
comes clearer as they grow older. Some are black,
and others ofa yellowish white.

Although these animals grow to an astonishing
size, yet their voice is very feeble, and their bleat—
ing is seldom audible; they are, notwithstanding,
extremely petulant. The rams are butting conti-
nually, and even when there are no females among
them. Their skin is used for beds by most of the
Egyptians. Besides the thickness of the ﬂeece,
which renders this kind of mattress less hard, they
believe that in sleeping upon them they are secure
against the stings of scorpions, which they say
never go upon wool, or apparently they would get
entangled by it. One of these skins of a full
length, that is to say, long and broad enough to
serve a man as a mattress, was sold as high as twen-
ty-four franks (a pound sterling), whilst the whole
animal alive, but stripped of its ﬂeece, only cost
from seven to eight franks, from 5:. rod. to 6:. 8d.

The second race of Egyptian rams, also to be
found in Nubia and Abyssinia, is very probably
that which Buffon has described under the denomi.

nation
Page-283
3‘52, TRAVELS IN UPPER

nation of Ram of Tunis 5", which description, it
must be observed, wants precision, for he does
not sufﬁciently distinguish the species from that
of the Barbary sheep, from which it differs in
many respects, although Linnaeus, or his editor
Gmelin, has confounded them, by denoting both

as particularly remarkable for the breadth of the
tail*%*.

Neither are the goats alike in the longitudinal
direction of Egypt. In the north the goats with
sleek hair and long cars hanging downwards, the
Jl/fambrz'mz or broad-tailed goat 1:, is the only species
which the Egyptians propagate. The goats of
the Said are much smaller; their horns are thin
and handsomely turned; they are very spruce
and lively, and besides, uncommonly noisy; you
perpetually hear their bloating, the sound of which
cannot be better compared than to the cries of a
child. Their hair is long, very bushy, and nearly
as soft as silk. This latter characteristic, and some
other similarities in shape, give it a strong fe-
semblance to the silky haired goat of Angora.
It appears that this race ofgoats is the same with
that of the goat of Judah, of which Bufl’on has
made mention in the natural history of the wild
goat, and which, according to the report of Bos-

*‘ Supplement to the Natural History of Quadrupeds.
1 01213 laticaua’ara. t See page 68 of 2d Vol.

man,
Page-284
AND LOWER EGYPT. 9.53

man, is common in Guinea, at Angola, and upon
some other of the coasts of Africa *.

You do not see amid these ﬂocks of sheep and
goats in Egypt an animal ofanother species, which,
in our country, forms one of the articles of rural
wealth as well as one ofthe most common and sa-
voury viands. The legislators ofthe East, to begin
with the priests of ancient Egypt, agreed to pro—
scribe the ﬂesh of the hocr. This animal was con-
sidered as unclean by the Egyptians in particular.
If any one chanced to touch it, merely in passing,
he was obliged to plunge into the Nile with his
clothes on. Those who kept herds of them form»
ed an isolated class who were excluded from the
society of other men; although Egyptians them—
selves, admission into the temples of Egypt was
forbidden them. Nobody would give them their
daughters in marriage, nor would any one wed
theirs “i‘- Nevertheless, whilst the Jews in Egypt
who had taken this aversion to hogs never either
sacriﬁced or ate them; the Egyptians sacriﬁced
them once a year to the Nloon, and, on this day

only, the day of the feast of the full moon, was it
lawful to eat them Jr.

* Natural History of Qiadrupeds, and Supplement, art ,
Burke/'Juida. Capra're'vena. Lin.
" 1- Herodotus, lib. ii. sect. xlvii. French translation of Lar-

Cher.
:2 Ibid. Notes of Larcher.
It
Page-285
22.54 TRAVELS IN UPPER‘

It is not reasonable to believe that an av rsion
so general among a celebrated nation should have
no other foundation, as some people have imagined,
than a natural abhorrenee to the voracious appetite
which leads these animals to wallow in heaps of
the vilcst ordure. It would have been necessary
for the same reason to reject the ﬂesh of fowls,
which, it is well known, greedily devour the vilest
and the most disgusting aliments.

The custom of abstaining from hog’s ﬂesh uno
doubtedly originated from the necessity ofa strict
regimen, indisPensable under a scorching atmo-
sphere; and this will be irresistibly evident, when
it is observed, that the race of hogs natural to
warm climates rather resemble ﬁzz: 120g of C/zz'mz, or
of Siam and India, than the European hog * ; that
these hogs of Cit/72a, even when brought up in our
cold climates, afford food, more delicate indeed,
but much fatter, than that of the common hog;
that this food, very white and relishing, but so
fat in Egypt, in Syria, and even in the southern
parts of Greece, oppresses the most robust appe-
tites; in a word, that for these reasons alone, they
were induced to consider this animal as pernicious,
on account of the indigestion, and ofthe unplea-
sant risings which it occasions in stomachs already

h weakened by the excess of heat.

* Buffet], Nat. Hist. of‘Qladrup.-Smporcw.
On
Page-286
AND LOWER EGYPT. 255

On the other hand, the vast quantity of fat with
which this animal is loaded, obstructing the per-
spiration in climates where the heat produces it so
abundantly, renders the Egyptians more liable
than elsewhere to the measles, a disease peculiar
to them, and which under a burning sky might
easily degenerate into a leprosy. Such a disposio
tion as this was more than sufﬁcient to inspire
Egyptians with detestation at a species of animal,
which appeared to be itself liable to a disease, and
to induce them to shun every tendency toward any
thing that could generate this abominable distem»
per. This was, in fact, the real cause of an aver—
sion, whieh the stupid superstition of the Jews has
retained in colder countries, where the hog is
among the number of animals most useful as a
nutriment of man. The Egyptians thought, that
being constitutionally subject to the leprosy, to
ringworms, and other cutaneous eruptions, which
in these parts assume a more decided degree of vi—
rulence, it was absolutely requisite to abstain al~
together from this sort of food.

Abstinence from the ﬂesh of the hog has been
transmitted to the present race ongyptians. The
Cophts never eat it, any more than the Mahome-
tans; so that nothing is more scarce in thepSai'd than
this animal, where there are no Greeks, as in the
cities of Lower Egypt, who bring it up clandes.

tincly,
Page-287
256 TRAVELS IN UPPER

tinely, nor any other Europeans, except seven or
eight missionaries scattered up and down. Upon
my arrival at the convent of Neiguadé, in which
hOSpitality is so treacherous, some Catholic Cophts
hastened to inform me that I might see a rare and
singular animal there. I hastened, in my turn, to
request them to show it me. They conducted me
to a corner of the yard, and I was surprised to ﬁnd
nothing in it but a pig which the monks-were
rearing, and which the stupid Egyptians looked
upon as a very curious animal.

These same Catholics, who concentrate the su-
perstitions of various religions, entertain a belief,
the effects of which must frequently prove fatal to
themselves. They are persuaded that the croco-
dile ”l“, connoisseur enough to distinguish the Chris-
tian from a Mussulman, only attacks the latter,
but respects the worshipper of Christ. They are
so much prepessessed in favour of this opinion, that
they bathe without fear in the waters of the Nile,
where these huge and hideous lizards exist; whilst
theMahometans, whose credulity urges them to ac-
knowledge a predilection miraculously occasioned,
dare not expose themselves there. I remember to .
have read something similar to this in the first vo-

* Crocodile, or the crocodile properly so called, lizardvfooted,
Nat. Hist. of oviparous (badrupedSr-Lam-m cracodz‘lw. Lin.
In Egypt,_1immlz, a name approaching to that of (llamas, which

the crocodile formerly bore there.
lume
Page-288
AND LO'VVER EGYPT. Q57

iume ofa description of Western Ethiopia. The
author aﬂirms that the Christians have nothing to
fear from crocodiles, but that they devour many of
the negroes. Superstition holds the same language
every where, and here people of discernment will
distinguish that of missions.

In remote times the crocodile experienced a dif-
ferent treatment in Egypt, according to the place
in which it was to be found. In one part it was
pursued with fury and destroyed without pity; in
another it was an object of veneration. The in-
habitants ofthe environs oFThebes and ofthe Lake
I\Ioeris, regarded it as a sacred animal. They chose
out one from among tl cm which they tamed; they
took the greatest care of it; its food was pre-
scribed and regulated by religious books; they
adorned it with ear-rings made of gold or of ficti-
tious stones, and with a sort of bracelets on its fore
feet *, an attire far too elegant for an animal so
hideous.

At present the crocodile is neither destroyed nor
reverenced. They are left in peace to impart their
musk smell to the waters of the Nile, and to clear
them offishes. Banished to the most southern part
ongypt, they assemble there in vast numbers.
They are to be seen when the sun is at its height,

* Herodotus, place above quoted, § 69.
VOL. 111. 5 their
Page-289
258 TRAVELS IN UPPER

their head above the water, immoveable, and ap-
pearing at a distance like large pieces of ﬂoating
wood, gliding slowly down with the current, and
basking in the heat, of which they are very fond.
I have shot several in that situation, and very close
to them; for, not being often disturbed, Icould ap-
proach them easily. With a coat of mail which
resists the ball, it is very difﬁcult to kill them., I
was in hopes of being able to fracture their skull by
a discharge from my musket loaded with a slug;
but whether it be that they were equally impene-
trable there, or whether, being wounded only, they
retired to die some time after at the bottom ofthe
deep, I know not, but all thoseI shot made a plunge
and disappeared immediately.

In the neighbourhood ofThebes, the small boat
in which I sailed up the river, was often surrounded
by crocodiles, on a level with the surface; they saw
us pass by with indifference; they neither disco-
vered fear nor any cruel intent at our approach.
' he noise occasioned by musket—shot was alone
able to disturb them in their state oftranquil apa-
thy. They never rise upon vessels, and how little
soevcr they may be lifted above the water, nothing
is to be apprehended from their attacks. But you
must avoid thrusting your arms or legs into the
stream, or you will run the risk of gettingthetn
snapped off by their sharp and pointed teeth.

Very
Page-290
AND LOWER EGYPT. 259

Very alert in the water, which they cut with ra-
pidity, they make but slow progress on dry land;
and were it not that their slime colour, and the bed
of mud with which they cover themselves in walk-
ing along the miry shores of the Nile, disguise
them so as to render them less perceptible, and thus
expose you to be surprised by them; they are by
no means so dangerous out of the watery element;
in which they are stronger and more at liberty.

It is upon the muddy coast ofthc Nile that they
deposit their eggs; it is there also that they copu-
late. The female, which in the act of copulation
is laid on her back, has much difﬁculty in rising
again; it is even said, that she can neither change
her position nor turn without the assistance of the
male. Will it be believed, that in Upper Egypt
there are men to be found, who, hurried on by the
excess ofan unexampled depravation and bestiality,
take advantage ofthis forced situation of the female
Crocodile, hunt away the male, and replace him in
a commerce that shocks humanity ? Horrible em—
braces, frightful enjoyments, the knéwledge of
which should never have stained the disgusting
pages of the history of human perversity !

The fecundity ofthe crocodile would prove a ter-
rible scourge to the country which it inhabits, did
not numerous enemies, among which the tortoise of

s 2 the
Page-291
26-3 TRAVELS 1:: UPPER

the. Jile ranks the foremost, prevent its multiplica-
tion by devouringits eggs, and the young ones as
s n as they were hatched. Seven young crocodiles,
hatched two days before, were brought to me at
Kozzs; they were eleven inches long, and their teeth
were already very sharp. The Egyptian who took
them informed me that there were about ﬁfty of
them together, but that it was impossible for him
to seize them all, because the mother had arrived
unexpectedly, and was eager to ﬂy upon him.
These reptiles, already so formidable from their hi—
deous form and their voracity, are still more so from .
theirimmense length. I saw at the convent of
l‘fegzmdé the skin of a crocodile thirty feet long and
four broad. l have been assured that some have

. . / .
been found in the NllC even ﬁfty feet 111 length.

I have also seen at Négzmdé the skin, badly pre-
served, ofanother species oflizard, which in that
country is called own-121‘“. It was two feet long,
but there are some larger. It is entirely a land ani-
mal ; it never goes into the water. Manyfabn-
lous stories are told about it, in which, perhaps,
may be included the expedient it makes use of, ac-
cording to the report of Simm’, to draw the milk
from sheep and goats, of which it is excessively

* The marbled Lacepedes, Natural History of oviparous
Qradrupeds.—Lacerm Nilotz‘m. Hasselqnitz, Itin. page 3”.
F orskal, Fauna Algyptiaco»Arab. page 13. Lin. Syst. of Nature.

fond ;
Page-292
AND LOWER EGYPT. 261

fond; it takes a strong hold of one of the legs of
the sheep, or of the goat, with its long tail, and

or it sucks them

thus preventing them from walking,

at its ease 3*.

I received from the Copht Poclor a small bag
ﬁlled with the fragments of all sorts of brilliant
stones, as well as of vitriﬁed scoria, which had been
found among the rubbish of ancient monuments.
In presenting me with this treat, of no great value,
Pocfor made me observe a little round ﬂint of a,
dark yellow colour, and scattered over with diiniJ
nutive spots perfectly round,ota white tinged with
yellow, and having in their centre a point of the
same colour with the ground of the flint. Its pro-
perty, real or supposed, ofcuring the sting of scor-
pions, occasions it to be much sought after by the
Egyptians. But the most precious thing which the
Copht possessed, and which he did not give to me,
was a very beautiful ruby that he wore upon his
ﬁnger, and which had been found in the ruins ot‘
Dendem.

The ﬂint ofwhich l have been just speaking, is
not the only one to which Virtues are attributed,
that exist only in the imagination ot’ the Egyptians.
A little stone was shown to me, whit h is called file
Slone for poison by way of excellence (Inn/{jar sem) .
Powdered down and taken in a small dose, it is con-

"‘ Memoir of Missionsto the Levant, vol. v. page 191.

s 3 sidered
Page-293
262. TRAVELS IN UPPER

sidered as an antidote against the poison of serpents
and of other venomous animals. The quacks of
every country make use of this species of stone to
deceive the multitude, and in order to give it greater
reputation, they say that they have taken it out of
the head ofaserpent or ofa dragon. It is in reality
nothing more than a mineral concretion, which
owes all its efﬁcacy to superstition and credulity.

This is also the case with respect to the stone of
Benazir (lmdzsjm' Bemzzz'r), which takes its name
from a village near the place where it is most com-
monly found. The inhabitants ongypt look upon
it as another precious antidote. When it is rubbed
against a vessel containinga Few drops of water, it
whitens them and makes them like milk.

My medical skill was put to a severe trial before
my departure from Keys. The new Kiasc/zef fell
from his horse and dislocated his shoulder. He ho-
noured me with a conﬁdence which could not have
been worse bestowed. It was in vain for me to point
out the established distinction between physic and
surgery; it would not have been understood, and
the confession ofmy inability to relieve him, would
not have been without danger. Iwas obliged then
to become surgeon; my companions became my
assistants. It was a singular spectacle to see ustor-
ment the Mameluc by useless eﬁ'orts, whilst he, not

perceiving
Page-294
AND LOWER EGYPT. 263

perceiving our want ofskill, was patiently enduring
the pain of an operation ill performed. I had rea-
son to fear that my patient would keep me by him ;
and from the apprehension that this whim should
seize him, I departed that very evening for Kama”,

whereI arrived on the 2 3d July, at night.

54
Page-295
264. TRAVELS 1N UPPER,

CHAP. LII.

Kemze’ — Koft -—— Dendem—Ke/lze' — Commotions -—
Surges of [he Alﬁe—Pirates—Saizet—Be’lirmé—
Birds — Girge’ — [ta/ion 77107sz —- Zl/Ierzs/zié—Gue'«
piers—Tzz/zlcz—General rebellion in i/zis district——
Venereal diseases—Fevers— ”forum—49100127} piles
———Flies——Ir/meumon ﬂies — S oorpion—Lz'zofds—
Boat— 'cm-el Kebir— lVeevi/s—Skirmis/z Zie-
tween file Arabs—Repairs of tile bool—A/deége
-Courtezans—Dizvt-eaters—[liaizjfe/ozzt.

KENNE', an inconsiderable Village, is situated,

as well as Kous, towards the cast, but farther

from the Nile ; it is a rendezvous to the caravans
which travel to Cosseir, and return from thence
loaded with the costly productions of India and

Arabia. Its name is not changed: the ancients

called it Cezme and C(enopoiis, but it is no longer

what it once was. A canal, by which the waters
communicated with those of the Arabian gulf,
rendered its situation very favourable for com-
merce. Of this canal not a trace remains; the
monumtnts which adorned the ancient city are
no longer to be seen; its commerce is nearly an:
nihilated; its riches have vanished, and nothing

.
IS
Page-296
AND LOWER EGYPT. 265

is left of the industry of its former inhabitants but
a wretched manufacture of earthen-ware.

Between K024: and Kenna", Koft is situated, a
village on the coast, near the spot on which the an»
cient town of Cop/110s stood, and which the com-
merce of the Red Sea also rendered a flourishing
place. Several authors assert that the canal of the
Red Sea, now ﬁlled up, terminated here, while
others place its boundary in the neighbourhood of
Kenna”.

This last district is opposite to Dezza’em, whichl
visited for the second time. I did not fail again to
cast a glance of admiration on the temple which
the Ten/Juries had consecrated to Isis, a monument
in a higher state of preservation than any other in
Egypt. I met the same friendly reception from the
Emir as before : he presented me with a very beau-
tiful antique head of white marble, but I lost this,
with a number of other curiosities, which were
taken from me.

Continuing to descend along the Nile, whose
waves grew more disturbed, and rose into a greater
swell every day, we stopped on the 25th at Rat's/rig,
a village on the western bank of the river, where
we purchased some provisions. From thence we

proceeded to Kai/25‘, another village on the same
side,
Page-297
266 TRAVELS IN UPPER

side, and about halfa league distant from Saltet,
where I had so many disputes with the Mameluc
who commanded there, and with the master ofmy
boat. This spot had almost proved fatal to me.
I found it in the most violent state of commotion.
Whole villages, taking advantage of the confu-
sion caused by the war, which was on the point of
bursting out in Upper Egypt, had broken out into
Open rebellion, and refused to pay their tribute,
which, uncertain where victory would incline, they
were apprehensive ofbeing twice called uponto dis-
charge. Several of these little colonies had taken
up arms to resist the Kiasclzq’of Bar/aura, who was
marching against them to reduce them to order:
that ofKel/zé was among the number. Scarcely had
we set foot on his territory, when, deceived by our
garb, thirty or fortyfel/a/zs, armed with lances and
sabres, fell upon us. We had advanced without
distrust, and were without the means ofsuﬂieient
defence to resist so numerous a force. I was reduced
to the only alternative which remained, to reason
with a people who are little susceptible of under-
standing thelanguagc of reason. However, after
having inquired why they treated as enemies a few
peaceable strangers, I perceived that they had mis-
taken us for the followers of the Kiasclzef, against
whom they were arming; it was no diﬁicult matter
to undeceive them, and they consented, though

not without some trouble, to release us.

We
Page-298
AND LOWER EGYPT. 267

We immediately re-embarked, but it was only to
encounter another species of danger. The wind
blew strong from the north ; the river, whose course
is here conﬁned by a ridge of rocks which projects
into its bed, was furrowed by deep surges, parti—
cularly in those places where the rapidity of the
current has to struggle, though with superior force,
against the resistance of the wind. Having endea-
voured to gain the thread of the current, we found
the billows so high and so boisterous, that our little
hmja, which had no ballast, was on the point of
being overset. With much trouble and danger we
reached the foot of the mountain, where we re—

mained, in expectation that towards night the wind
would subside, which is generally the case.

We had been forewarned at Kai/26', that this
place was reckoned the most dangerous passage for
navigation on the Nile. No boat ventured here
alone; pirates here exercised a continual trade of
plundering both day and night. Before our eyes,
we beheld one of their most formidable retreats.
Several caverns, hollowed out of the rock, served
them for a habitation and an observatory, from
whence they took cognizance of vessels at a dis-
tance, the attack and plunder of which they had
time to project. In all probability, they considered
their number to be at that time insufficient to cope
with us. We continued upon our guard, and they

did
Page-299
268 TRAVELS 1N UPPER

did not venture to approach us. As they were so
near, however, we could not quit the shore, andI
was unable to visit the eaves, which are rut out of
the rock, and which, in all probability, are the la-
bours of antiquity.

Although night approached, the fury of the
wind did not abate, and it was impossible for us to
remain where we were. We, made a kind of sail
with some pieces of blue cloth, part of the dress of
our sailors, and steering our course towards the op-
posite shore, across a swell, which threatened de-
struction to our little bark, we arrived at Sa/zet, a
port of Basjoum, and ot'Fm'sc/zout.

The Reis went ashore to the village ; he imme-
diately returned to inform us, that, in consequence
of the disturbances which raged in this district, he
had been assured that we could not remain be-
fore Salve), without running the risk ofbeing mur-
dered. I ordered him to return to the Sc/zeicl’ 61 Be]—
Zm’, and to acquaint him that I was a [Lizzrc/zq‘ithat
I laid my injunctions on him to keep a strict watch
over our safety, or that he should be answerable for
the consequences. There was no occasion to re—
peat this message a second time; the chief of the
village himself, with a few attendants, kept guard
the whole night near my boat. At daybreak he
was very assiduous in his inquiries whether I had

slept