
Page-300
AND LOWER EGYPT. 269

slept well, and if my health was perfectly good ; he
then ordered a light breakfast and some coﬁ’he to
be brought me. I took my departure, however,

with all possible dispatch, le t it should have been

(Ia

discovered, as the day advanced, that the pre-
tended Kiasclzef had no beard.

Bé/imze’, a considerable village to the westward
ofthe Nile, and near which, towards the moun-
tains, are still to be seen, as I have learnt from
some ofthe inhabitants, ruins which occupy a large
portion ofground, was the retreat where we passed
the night ofthe 27th.

Storks and pelicans stood motionless for whole
hours on little islands ofsand ; kings~ﬁshers, black
and white plovers, armed, and those with a ring
round the neck, and herons, were here and there
to be seen ; and even before Bé/imze', pigeons made
a descent upon the river, although rapid and agi-
tated, and remained some moments on the surface
ofthe water.

From Be'z'imzé we bent our course on the 28th
towards Girge’. There was here still another hos-
pital of monks for the propagation of the faith, to
which I had also a letter from Cairo. I had some
curiosity to see whether they were any better than
those ofEc/mdmm and [Vegzmr/e', and the reception

I met
Page-301
270 TRAVELS IN UPPER

I met with satisﬁed me fully as to this point. I
presented myselfbefore the superior, an old man
with a long white beard, and rather ofa graceful
deportment. He satisﬁed himself with looking at
the date ot‘the letter which I put into his hands,
and perceiving it was written some time back, he
threw the paper in my face, telling me the letter
was worth nothing. Iconfessl had occasion for

all my patience to restrain myself from punishing
such excessive insolence, and of which several

people were the witnesses. The monk perceived

my agitation; he took up the letter, read it, and
began to pour forth a torrent of apologies, which

I received by turning my back upon him, and quit-
ting the house, fully determined never to set foot
again within these abodes offolly and impertinence.

Nextto Cairo, the city ofGirgé, which is situated
at about the distance ofa hundred leagues from it,
built along the Nile, the shore of which is there
lofty and steep, may be reckoned the most consi—
derable in Egypt—It is the capital of the Said.
A bey resides in this place, and the Cophts {here
maintain a bishop. The architecture is modern

and irregular, and the stranger meets with nothing
to attract his attention.

We departed thence on the morning of the

29th. The north wind, which for several days past
had
Page-302
AND LO‘vVER EGYPT. 27!

had blown with unabated fury, raised the waves
mountain high, and far beyond anything that I
should have expected to have seen on a river. It
entirelyprevented the navigation ofthe boats which
followed the course of the Nile. With consider-
able diﬁiculty we arrived at M’ens/zie’, a town whose
markets are always well supplied, because the
vessels which steer for the north ongypt, generally
lay in a stock of provisions there. The pigeon-
houses are more beautiful here than in any other
place. A large and populous city, Ptolemais Her-
mii, was formerly situated on this spot. A few
scattered ruins, and a bank of stone to restrain the
waters of the river, are the only relics of the an-
cient splendour of 1116/23/21}.

The Kizzsclxefof this place wished me to visit him
in my medical capacity, and inquired if I was
furnished with letters from Mourat Bey; on my rc-
plyingin the affirmative, he told me that I had but
an indifferentrecommendation, as Mourat was on
the point of being dispossessed of his usurped au-
thority. This Istr/rq’was on the point of form-
ing a junction with Husrmz Bar, who was inimical
to hﬂourat, and whose party was becoming every
day more powerful in the Said. But the most un«
pleasant circumstance to me, was the declaration of
his intention to take me with him, for the purpose,
as he said, ofcuring the wounds xx hich Harm” had

received
Page-303
272?. TRAVELS IN UPPER

received in his last conﬂict with lVIourat. I did
not lose a moment in withdrawing from the execu-
tion of a project which would inevitably have
proved fatal to me, and I took my departure for
Soulugje, whcrc I arrived on the morning of the
30th. In the course of this day we observed the
same species ofbirds that I have just mentioned.

The next morning I quitted Swim/'6 on horse-
back, accompanied by two Arabs, after having 16ft
orders that my boat should proceed to Talzm. I
passed through Ke’ne’, a village at the foot of the
western mountain, and underthe dominion of the
Arab Sc/zeicfc Ismailzvxldou-fﬂi. I saw in the en-
virons, under walacacz'as, some guépiers 35, bcauti-
ful birds and rapid in flight, which are continually
in pursuit of winged insects. They were not in
the least degree wild, and as they hopped along,
they uttered a smali cry. shriil, and only once at a
time.

At Tull/(1, where I arrived on the evening ofthe
gist, l resumed the lodging which I had formerly
occupied at the habitation of the Catholic Cophts.
dial/ii”: JIM/wiry, the Copht, Upon whom I had
performed an important cure, was at Cairo; my rc~
putation however was high at Tait/(z, and as soon

* The Guépier. Button, Hist. Nat. des 015. 8: pl. enlum.
No. Q§S.—-xlferopr a‘oz'ézster. Lin.
21$
Page-304
AND LOWER EGYPT. 273

as my return was known, I was beset by a multi-
tude of invalids, or persons who supposed them-
selves to be so.

This district was far from being in a state of
tranquillity. Theer/rz/gs of the surrounding coun-
try had risen in a body, and refused the imposts.
Some Arabs also, from whom tribute had been ex-
acted, joined themselves to the malecontents. The
several Kizzsclzefs had united their forces to march
against the insurgents, and had just sustained a
complete defeat. A victory over authority, or ra-
ther over the most detestable despotism, had ren-
dered this country a scene of riot and confusion.
The ﬁelds were abandoned or laid waste; the
husbandman forsool; his plough to ﬂy to arms;
the ﬂocks were carried off, or destroyed, and every
sort of provision became the prey of the enemy or
of robbers. The highways, lined with banditti,
were shut against communications and intelligence
of every kind. In a word, desolation raged over a
soil, the fertility of which struggled against the
ferociousness of the inhabitants. All these circum-
stances caused devastations, which of necessity
would be long in repairing, and far above the value
ofthe impositions which they were desirous to levy.
But amid the indignation which is excited by a
hateful tyranny, persons are not always able to re-
ﬂect coolly upon the consequences. The people,

VOL. 111. ’1‘ however
Page-305
274. TRAVELS IN UPPER

however low they may be reduced, become weary
at length of being at the disposal of unprincipled
men; and that power which, stiﬂing the dictates
of justice and of conscience, loses sight of the
privileges of humanity, and has no other recourse
to attain its object, but the rigour of arbitrary
violence, cannot exist long, and must infallibly
sink under the weight of its own oppression.

The few days I passed at Tall/a, during which I
did not often quit the house, asI was conﬁned there
bythe troubles which raged in the country, afforded
me an opportunity of making fresh observations on
the diseases ofthe country, and the method of cure
which the Egyptian physicians employed. They
distinguish several specics of venereal diseases, ac-
cording to the difference of the symptoms, and
they bestow on them whimsical names, which it is
no easy matter to explain. The generical deno-
' mination is manure/E (the blessed). Sometimes it is
the disease of goals, and sometimes the disease of
came/s. This last description is looked upon as the
most dangerous, and the most difﬁcult to cure.
Nothing is more simple than their treatment of
the diseases: it usually consists in eating a great
quantity of meat, in drinking strong brandy, and
in rubbing the body with oil and sulphur. Others
recommend a method ofcure fully as simple, but
much more disgusting: it is to drink the water in

which
Page-306
AND LOXVER EGYPT. 275

which their women wash themselves after ly'inglin.
A man gave me positive assurance, that he had
been freed by this means of several external symp-
toms whieh had entirely disappeared; but even if
this account had been entitled to credit, it was
nevertheless certain that his cure was merely pal-
liative; for this very man was constantly com—
plaining of violent pains in his limbs, and parti—
cularly in the joints. At Cairo, and in the other
cities of Lower Egypt, the treatment is more me-
thodical: they administer for the space of forty
days the deeoetion of sarsaparilla; the regimen
consists in eating nothing during that time, except
unleavened bread and honey. After that they
prescribe large potations of brandy.

I observed that intermitting fevers were very
uncommon in Egypt. When they do appear, the
symptoms in general only continue for ﬁve or six
days, at the expiration of which period they either
cease altogether, or they become malignant fevers.
The Arabian name for fever is 31mm. The un—
wholesome food of the greater part of the inhabit-
ants generates an immense quantity of worms in
the intestines; the Egyptians of the Said call
them feisouse'. There are few men in this country
who are not subject to the bloody piles: when

they swell and become very painful, they are
'r 2 usually
Page-307
276 TRAVELS m UPPER

usually opened with a razor. It is the province
of the barbers to perform this operation.

Besides the enormous quantity of common ﬂies,
which torment both men and animals in this
scorching climate, 1 ObSCI'Vt‘d another species very
like the common ﬂy, only smaller; its body is
entirely covered with hair, and of a blackish
brown colour, deep and shining. These ﬂies
were brought to my boat in a basket of fruit.

Another description ofﬂies, whosehead and body
are of a bright green, with a little black at the ex-
tremity of the body, and some small transversal
streaks ofthe same colour under the belly, are fre-
quently to be seen at Table ; Iobserved them since
at Rossetta, where they disappear during the winter
season. These ﬂies in general remain on the ground,
where they feed upon everything they meet with,
fruit, the remains of victuals, excrement, &c. 8:0.

In Upper Egypt you meet very frequently with
a beautiful species of the ichneumon ﬂy, which
only appear in the lower country during the sum-
mer months. Some of these are of a blue and
violet colour, with brilliant golden reﬂexes, and
others ofa sparkling golden green. A long sharp

sting projects from the extremity of the belly.
These
Page-308
AND LOWER EGYPT; 2’77

These beautiful insects, which I saw again at
Rossetta, although only in the mild season, enter
the houses and take up their abode in little holes
of the wall and in the wood. When they are
caught, they discharge a small. quantity of a
liquid which has the smell of sulphur.

One evening, on the terrace of a house, at a
small distance From my own habitation, I heard
screams of agony which lasted for more than an
hour. On inquiry, I learnt that they proceeded
from a woman who hadjust been stung by a scor—
pion. A female was concerned, and this circum-
stance was sufﬁcient to prevent my receiving any
intelligence of the consequences ot‘ the wound.

At this season little lizards of uncommon
beauty throng on the shores of the Nile, and in
little pools of water. Gold and azme glitter in
long ﬁllets over their whole body, and their tail is
of a beautiful sky blue. Those beautiful lizards
likewise approach, though not often, the habita-
tions of man. I perceived one on the wall of a
house where l lodged at Tar/1m. Excessive heat
is necessary to the propagation of their species,
and in (act I never met with them in the north of
Egypt. The Egyptians seemed to entertain a kind
of veneration for these little animals, for as I en~
deavoured to catch some of them with a stick

T 3 upon
Page-309
278 TRAVELS IN UPPER

upon the shore, the sailors of my boat frequently
entreated me to desist.

I had discharged the 17111sz which brought me
to Tait/(z. To prosecute my journey, I waited
till some boat should touch in the neighbourhood.
I had been informed that there was one at So‘lzeicl’
Zeiueiddin, a small Village on the banks of the
Nile, and a little below Ta/ztrz. I proceeded thi-
ther, and I confess I was a little alarmed u hen l
beheld the disposition of the machine on which I
was about to embark ; it was one of those large
vessels which they call wasp/71 : its lading was corn
for the supply of Cairo, but it was so full that it
lay even with the water’s edge, and in order
to prevent the entrance of the water, they had
erected on the gunwale a bastion of fascines
and of mud. It' a journey by land had been
practicable, I should have taken good care how I
set foot in a vessel, the arrangement of which
was only suited to persons who had nothing to
lose, or to such as possessed uncommon facility
in swimming. But thelxxhole country was a
scene of tumult, and no person dared venture to
travel through it. I departed then, on the 61h
of August, in this vessel; its lading, already so
heavy, was farther increased by a great quantity

of men and of sheep, which they stowed even on
the top of the com.

About
Page-310
AND LOWER EGYPT. 9.79

About two leagues from Strlzez'c]: Zcineidr-iin, and
on the opposite shore, that is to say to the east—
ward of the Nile, the village of Ifnu c] Kai/if
(Kan the great, to distinguish it from the smaller
village on the opposite side), which is built upon a
lofty promontory, presents to the eye and the re-
gret of the traveller, the ruins of an ancient e0-
lonnade, in a good state of preservation. A bank
of freestone, half decayed, repels the attacks of
the current against the territory of this ancient
city, which some suppose to be ‘J/zt‘eopo/is (the city
of Antzeus), and others Bios/voile rllz'nor (the lesser
Diospolis). At the very point of the cape and be-
fore the haven, you may see the vast remains of a
mole, which the waters hardly cover, and which,
projecting into the middle of the river, renders this
passage extremely dangerous. When the water is
low, this piece of architecture, also built of free-
stone, appears above the surface of the river, and
gives an air of probability to the conjecture, that in
this [spot there was formerly a bridge over the Nile.

The master of the boat was a native of Tomz'e/z;
he did not wish to pass this town without paying
a visit to his family and his habitation, and above
all, without laying in a stock of corn for his own
use: he caused a tolerably large proportion to be
conveyed to his house; and lest the lading of his
vessel should appear diminished, he took care to

T 4 mingle
Page-311
28o TRAVELS IN UPPER

mingle as much dried earth with the mass as he
had pili‘ered of the grain.

As I walked by the Nile I discovered on the
rocks some weevils, about ten lines in length and
four in breadth; their colour is a dark yellow and
tinged with a blackish hue.

We were the spectators of a conflict between
two parties of Arabs at a small distance from the
Nile. Although the ﬁre of muskctry continued
for a considerable time, it was by no means fatal.
We did not see a single person drop; they ﬁred at
a distance, and almost always on full gallop. It
was a slight skirmish between bad marksmen,
mutually endeavouring to shun each other. After
a full hour employed in an exercise, which ap-
pearedto be a tilt for amusement rather than a
real engagement, we saw one of the parties retire
without the shadow ofa cause, and as composedly
as if they w re returning from a festival.

The Reis appeared to be quite at his ease, and
seemed to give himself very little trouble about
the boat, the direction of whieh was intrusted to
him. The anxiety I experienced was extreme;
the disorders which raged on land prevented my
removing from my present situation, and the nu-

merous assemblage by whom I was surrounded in
1. the
Page-312
AND LOWER EGYPT. 281

the boat. rendered my situation there neither more
secure nor more agreeable. At length we took
our departure on the 8th, carried along by the
violence of the wind and waves. The billows
dashed with fury against the feeble barrier which
they had erected on the bark, and there was every
reason to apprehend that by softening the mud
which supported it, it would be very soon overset.

At the moment of our departure we saw a vil-
lage on ﬁre; it was called Koum e1 Aim/2. This
conﬂagration was the consequence of a war
among the Arabs, in which they discovered nei-
ther valour nor generosity, and every act of which
was stamped with a treacherous and cruel revenge.

We halted at Aboulige’. Repairs were necessary
to our boat. What I foresaw had come to pass.
The bastion'of mud, which was erected on the
edge, had yielded to the fury of the waves; the
earth, entirely softened, had in several places
opened a passage to the water; the fronts of the
fascines had fallen down, and ifwe had proceeded

much farther on our voyage, the waves infallibly
\
would have washed over the vessel and sunk her.

The sailors began to rebuild this feeble barrier;
but as this was a labour which required some
time, I embraced an opportunity which presented

itself ofproceeding to Siout by land.
A Turk,
Page-313
282 TRAVELS IN UPPER

A Turk, who was an ofliccr of the household
of 3 hey, dispatched to collect his irnposts in the
country, and forced to return empty handed, in a
moment of universal rebellion, offered to conduct
me to Smut. He was obliged to talie his de-
parture the day after we arrived at Aﬁou/igc’. That
he might not be detained by me, I passed the
night in a caravansera. 1 had scarcely composed
myself to rest, when several discharges from a
musket were ﬁred with rapidity in the middle of
the building where I was. Every body ran out;
for my part1 remained perfectly composed, and I
was informed that the alarm proceeded from rob—

bers, who were endeavouring to break into the
house.

I had passed part of the day in a coffee—house
at A'Zrouligé, with the Turk, and two Sen-mills of
Cairo, who, contrary to the usual character of
peoPle of this kind, were courteous and affable.
According to custom, we were entertained with
‘poets and female dancers, equally devoted toihc
worsnip of Venus. They formed a kind of corpo-
ration, under the inspection of a police ofﬁcer, to
whom each member is obliged to pay ten medinas
every Friday. This man, whose Arabian name
signiﬁes Cozzzmmzder of #16 Pros/£1211“, exercises
unlimited authority over these women; he pro-
tccts or punishes them according to circumstances.

Although
Page-314
AND LOWER EGYPT. 283

Although such as I saw at Abozm'ge’ were far from
being ugly, they inspired disgust, by the diseases
with which they were eaten up, and the traces of

which were to be seen even on the faces of many
of them.

Between Abnzzlz'gé and Siam a canal is to be
seen, which the Nile already ﬁlled with its waters.
We were on horseback, and our guides had ima-
gined that we might cross it nearer the chains of
mountains, where they supposed the water would
of course be more shallow. But having found the
passage impracticable, we were obliged to return
the same way we came, coasting along the canal,
as far as the bank of the river. There we found a
little boat, constructed of old pieces of wood,
joined together with mud, and into which we had
considerable trouble in getting our horses to enter.
At length we arrived at Siam! about mid-day.

During the journey, Iobscrved that my compa-
—nion the Turk stopped from time to time, and
gave orders to a servant to pick up some pieces of
dirt, which he immediately devoured. I inquired
what relish he could possibly have for such a sin-
gular rcpast. He informed me, that an invincible
appetite made it necessary to him, and that no-
thing in the world could prevent him from grati-
fying it. This man was about sixty years of age.

Although
Page-315
284 TRAVELS IN UPPER

Although he was corpulent, his colour was yellow;
he was feeble and languid, and complained of vio-
lent pains in his stomach. Born in ”Constanti-
nople, and having passed a considerable part of
his life in Turkey, he had only felt this inclination
to eat dirt, after a pretty long residence in Egypt.
I have been since informed, that several persons
in the same country were attacked with this ma-
lady, for it is of a species which appears peculiar
to Africa. It is well known that the negroes who
were brought into the American colonies, fre-
quently perished from the consequences of this in-
ordinate appetite, after passing a life of pain, and
tortured by unavailing stripes, and barbarous pre-
cautions which they found means to elude.

From Sioux, where I left the dirt-eater, 1 pro-
ceeded on the evening of the I 1th to Man/elem.
The next morning the boat, which I had quitted
at Almulz'gé, made its appearance; my companions
and my goods were still in safety; but we were
very well pleased to leave a vessel in which it was

both dangerous and unpleasant to proceed.
Page-316
AND LOWER EGYPT. 285

CHAP. LIII.

Tur'K’is/z ﬂga—ﬂfedicine of tile Egjpliam—Arny of
Cairo—ﬂfusmlman prions—Bread of [672/273—-
Lizards—Boat—Dragon-ﬂies—Gnats and wa—
ter-spinners— [Winds—Egg?) tiaiz sailors—1110101 -
mills—Unpleasant (Id-venture, and tile mellzod by
tar/lid: tile ant/tor ear/ﬂoated lzimself—C/zains of
mountains, and observations respecting them——
Quarry of rev/lite lime—7716 pelican—Pyramids—
Bz‘rds—De'ir Et/izz.

VVHILE I waited till a boat should make its ap-
pearance, less inconvenient than the one we had
just quitted, Ihired a little house at JlIanfe/out,
the rent of which was no higher than at Siout. I
had not been here long before I was loaded with
disagreeable and troublesome occupations, which
it was impossible for me to avoid. A Turkish

Aga, who represented the feeble authority of a
Paeha of Cairo, resided at ﬂIanfelout. He la-

boured under a languishing disease, and insisted
on my visiting him in the capacity of physician.
He did not seem however to stand in need of per-
sons of this profession, for I saw several at his
house, whom he had collected from all quarters,

and
Page-317
286 TRAVELS IN UPPER

and whose various prescriptions he had the persea
vci'anee to follow one a't'ter another, and frequently
at the same time.

One of these physicians ordered him to apply
the east skin of a snake, under his turban, a cele-
brated preservative and specific in Egypt for dis-
eases of the head. The remedy which another
prescribed for his complaint, was to go out on
foot and walk into the country, till he should fall

m with a rag,

was to drag along with his naked foot till he

no matter of what sort, which he

reached his house, where he was to take three
sticks and a small quantity of alum, and burning
the whole together, to inhale the smoke. A third
had assured the Aga, that in three days he would
cure him of the complaint in his stomach, under
which he laboured. His treatment consisted in
ribbing the stomach, and pressing it violently,
and afterwards in squeezing it tightly with ban-
dages. I witnessed the resignation of the sick
man under this tiresome operation; but the phy-
sician, very prudently, took his departure before
the expiration of the three days which he had re-
quired to eﬂeet the cure.

In other respects this over-credulous Aga was of
considerable service to me. The army ofMourat
Bey, commanded by a bey of his household, and

along
Page-318
AND LOWER EGYPT. 287

along with it the most unbounded licentiousness,
entered .Illmzfe/oztr during my residence there.
Amid hordes of superstitious and ungoverned bar-
barians, a Frmzc ran the greatest risk possible. By
one of those abuses of power which civilized na-
tions connive at; by one of those acts of tyranny,
too common among men in a state of war, that is
to say, in a state of rebellion against nature and the
social compact, I was displaced by a detachment of
Mamelucs, who took possession of my habitation.
Omar/13m, so my patient was called, as soon as he
was informed of my unpleasant situation, caused
my effects to be conveyed to his house, and was
earnest in providing me with a lodging there.
This Turk was really a good man, but supersti-
tious to an excess. He was not satisﬁed with con-
sulting all the quacks in Egypt, but all day long
there was a number of priests by his side, who read
Chapters of the Aleoran, or rehearsed prayers. I
confess I was often tempted to laugh, when I
observed the astonishment which these stupid
preachers ot‘ the Alcoran discovered as they gazed
at me. An Eur0pcan, a Franc, was, in their eyes,
a curiosity; and being an inﬁdel and a reprobate,
was supposed, of course, to have something extra-
ordinary about him. Their looks followed me,
and remained invariably ﬁxed upon me. Every
step, every movement appeared to them wonder-

fully strange, and they could not possibly conceive
how
Page-319
288 TRAVELS 1N UPPER

how I came to conduct myself like the true be—
Iievers. “ See,” said they among themselves,
“ how he walks, how he moves his hands, how he
“ eats, 8xc. 8m. \Vcll, this is truly diverting 1”

At the end ofa few days, rlfzznfclout was delivered
from the army of Cairo: I saw it embark on the
Nile, in a disorder not easy to be described. The
hey who commanded was also charged, in his
march, with the subjugation ofthe Arabs, and the
fella/715, who had rcvolted, and refused to pay tri-
bute. The fury ofthis civil war, laying waste the
country, had diminished the sources ofabundanee:
provisions were no longer to be had at the mode-
rate price which was usually paid for them. The
poorer classes consumed bread of lentils, to which
they added a little barley; its colour is a golden
yellow; it is by no means bad, but it is heavy.
They call it 56mm. Towards the cataracts of the
Nile there is scarce any other bread in common use,
because corn is very rare in this country, which is
the southern extremity of Egy pt; :1 little lower,
however, it is the sustenance only of the poor,

A multitude of little gray lizards "lt loved to ap-
proach the habitations of man. They are to be
seen, in a greater quantity than at any other sea-

* Lézard gris. Lacepede, Hist. Nat. des Chladrup. oviparcs.
wLacerta agilix. Lin.
SOD
Page-320
AND LOWER EGYPT. 289

son of the year, on the walls, and even in the
houses. This species is common over all Egypt;
it is there called bourse. Its cry, which is fre-
quently repeated, is not unlike the noise which
we make, when we loose the tongue hastily from
the roof of the mouth. it is an animal which is
sacred both among the Turks and the Egyptians,
and the veneration which they entertain for it,
doubtless, is connected with the exercise of that
hospitality which is now generally adopted in the
East. They are unwilling to injure harmless and
innocent animals, which approach man with con-
fidence, and which seem to take up their abode
with him solely for the purpose of purging his
habitation of a swarm of insects, which con-
stantly torment him in those countries, where the
excessive heat renders them more numerous and
more troublesome than in other places.

By the attention of Omar Aga I was soon in a
condition to pursue my journey. The reader may
recollect that, as I proceeded up the Nile, I ob-
served at ‘Manfelout a kind of corvette, which
could only be navigated during the swell of the
river. The waters had attained a sufﬁcient height ;
they had just ﬁnished her lading, and she was on
the point of taking her departure for Cairo. This
large boat, which they called galioun (vessel), on
account of its size, and the port-holes with which

VOL. III. U it
Page-321
290 TRAVELS IN UPPER

it was pierced for the reception of cannon, was
capable of containing an immense cargo for a
river: there were on board two thousand ﬁve
hundred bags of corn, weighing about two hun-
dred and ﬁfty tons, besides a quantity of bales
shipped by private hands, at least a hundred men,
and several head of cattle. 0n the stern they had
erected three beautiful apartments, one of which
was much larger than the great cabin of the Ata-
lanta frigate. rFhat on the poop was the most plea-
sant, and this the Aga had appropriated to my use.

Icmbarked on board this vessel on the evening of
the 24th August. Several dragozzﬂieﬁ, of a purple
colour, flew about the banks of the river, while
swarms of goats and water-spinners, as night ap-
proached, tormented us with their number and
their stings.

All night long the wind blew strong and cold
from the north. I have read somewhere that no
wind is ever felt on the Nile; it is a palpable
mistake, for high winds frequently blow there,
which swell into tempests and hurricanes dan—
gerous to navigation.

On the 2 5th, at daybreak, the vessel was put in
motion, but it did not long continue so; they
halted again about two hundred fathoms below

* Liéellula. Lin,
Maigfelout,
Page-322
AND LOWER EGYPT. 291

Jli’mzfelout, in order to take a quantity of buffaloes
on board. I soon perceived the awkwardness of
the crew in manoeuvring the vessel. We ran
aground near the shore, and they were obliged
to labour the remainder of the day, and all night
long, before we were clear again. After that, we
dropped a little below the spot where we got
ashore, in order to take in the buﬁ‘aloes. We re-
mained here again a complete day and night. In
the night, however, our ignorant and improvident
seamen having neglected the necessary precautions
in mooring the boat, the wind, which blew vio-
lently, drove her from her cables, and she ﬂoated
down the stream at the mercy of the waves. Our
danger was imminent; we were close to the
mountain of Aboufeda, a complete ridge of rocks
on the bank of the river, and against which the
current was with violence impelling us. The un-
skilfulness of our seamen could not fail to make us
uneasy: in effect it was after many awkward ma-
nceuvres, that we were fortunate enough to re-
gain the shore from which we had broke loose.

At length, after the expiration of several days
which had interrupted my voyage, we took our
departure on the morning of the 27th. Our vessel
requiring a great depth of water, we lay close in
with the chain of rocks of ﬂéoufeda, in order to

have the advantage of the greatest draught, the
U 2 river
Page-323
292. TRAVELS IN UPPER

river being conﬁned in its current to this particu-
lar spot, it ﬂows along with great rapidity, and
the greatest precaution is requisite in steering the
boats along. If they are unfortunate enough to
split against these rocks, which are more than
perpendicular, as the mass is hollowed in the de-
clivity, it is impossible {or the crew to escape.
Besides the catacombs which I have mentioned, I
observed, at the extremity of the mountain of
Aboufcda, the ruins of buildings cut out in the
rock, and which I had not remarked on my ﬁrst:
excursion. Several wild geese were perched on
the protuberances of the rocks.

Among those persons whom the Hair had put on
board, there were four soldier’s servants who had
run away rom the army. Well pleased at escap-
ing from the toils of war, their insolence had no
bounds. Having beeh informed that we were Eu-
ro eans, their insults and impertinence were par-
ticularly pointed at us. I had determined to chas-
tise them at the ﬁrst town where we should stop;
but having arrived at ZlIe/lavom' in the night,_I was
obliged still to restrain myself. The four unruly
gentlemen continued their invectives the following
day, They carriedtheir audacity so far as to strike
two of my companions; the latter were not long
in returning the blow; the engagement began,
and guessing from the noise what had happened, 1

hastened
Page-324
AND LO\VER EGYPT. 293

hastened to the spot with my sabre in my hand,
and applied a few strokes to the shoulders of the
aggressors with the ﬂat side. They immediately
quitted their hold; but an exclamation was heard
over all the boat. An inﬁdel to strike a Mussul-
man 1 It was an offence unpardonable, and which
threatened me with instant death. They were
talking of throwing me overboard. The Reis, in—
stead of appeasing the tumult, as great a fanatic
as the rest, cried louder than any of them. I re-
tired with my companions into the chamber
which we occupied, and we entrenched ourselves
as well as we could, fully expecting to be at-
tacked. The fire-arms, however, with which we
were Supplied, appeared to the desperadoes who
surrounded us, formidable enough to prevent
their approach, and they contented themselves with
murmuring and conccrting plans of revenge.

Through the lattice of my chamber, Iperceived
at Sir/Mick Aha/é, the ruins of 1122/1'2202", and on the
same eastern coast, Bani/2mm», a village at the foot
ofa mountain of rock, rising perpendicularly, in
which the ancients have hollowed out sepulchral
caverns. A little tower and a forest ofpalm-trees
form a beautiful contrast with the rugged aspect of
the rocks which border this bank oF the Nile. The
village of Savouazli succeeds to this. There the

ruins of several ancient buildings are perceptible.
U 3 The
Page-325
29.1. TRAVELS 1N UPPER

The rock has been carved and hollowed in various
places; the entrances of a vast quantity of cata-
combs are arranged over the front of the moun-

tain, and near them I observed hieroglyphics and
symbolical ﬁgures.

The vessel dropt anchor at JUz'm'el. The Refs
immediately disembarked with about twenty of
the passengers, and made the best of his way to
the Kiasc/zef, in order to prefera complaint against
me, (or having had the audacity to strike a Mussol-
man. These wicked people took care to relate
every fact, and to represent it in the worst light
Possible. The populace of Mz'niet thronged in
crowds ; a ﬂock of fanatical barbarians demanded
the head of the dog who had abused a favourite
of Mahomet. I had dispatched my two Egyptian
servants after the Reis, in order to observe what
might come to pass. They returned to acquaint
me with the ferment which the accusation of the
R623 had raised in the minds of the people; they
had advanced into the court of the house oi the
Kiasclzef, where an assembled mob were calling
for vengeance, and they had heard it reported,
that I was to undergo the punishment of the has-
tinado on the soles of the feet. I had not a mo-
ment to lose after this information. It was ne-
cessary, they said, either to conceal myself or to
make my escape. I could not, with propriety,

have
Page-326
AND LOWER EGYPT. 295

have chosen either of these alternatives : I took a
resolution directly opposite. 1 determined to face
the danger, and to present myself openly, in
order to avert it. I quitted the boat immediately
with one of my attendants; my habit prevented
me from being recognised. We passed through
several streets. Every where the topic of con-
versation was the Franc who had beaten 3 lVIus-
sulman. I arrived at the house of the Erase/ref;
I penetrated through the crowd, who little sup-
posed that the person on whom their thoughts
were employed was in the midst of them; at
length I stood before the Kiasc/zef. An immtnse
number of persons surrounded him. The Rat's
and my other accusers stood forward and pointed
me out to the commandant. " Is ityou, then,” said
the [(221367ch to me in the most angry tone ima-
ginable, “ who was audacious enough to offer vio-
]ence to a believingMussnlman P” “ Give no heed,
I replied, in a determined tone, “to the vain cla-
mour of these paltry fella/Is, to whom, for the
honour of a valiant Mameluc, you have already
paid but too much attention. You are the slave
of Mourat Bey; you know very well that I am
his friend ; I have some important intelligence to
communicate to you from him; attend.” Iimme-
diately approached, and pretending to whisper in
his ear, Islipped a few chequins into his hand,

which I held ready in my own.
U 4 The
Page-327
295 TRAVELS IN UPPER

The Xian/72g”, who had raised himself a little
from his cushion to hear what I had to say, now
took his seat again, and darted menacing glances
at the Reis. “You know not,” said he to him, with
anger feigned, or at least purchased, what a Franc
He then pronounced a long and absurd en-
comium on the qualities and the power of the
Francs, which he knew nothing at all about.
The Ra's wished to reply ; but the Kiasc/Ief rose,

and bestowed on him a hearty box on the ear,
and then ordered him to receive several blows

7’

is.

with a cane. In an instant this mob, ignorant
and foolishly habituated to despotism, after hav-
ing regarded me as the greatest criminal, dis-
persed, crying up the justice of the Kinscizef, and
extolling the excellent qualities of the Francs.

Corruption in men of exalted stations, which is
an undeniable testimony of the depravity of man-
ners, and a certain presage of the fall of empires,
and the dissolution of the bonds of society, ap-
peared among the despots of Egypt to be custo-
mary, and a system universally adopted. They
were unanimous in opinion, that with the assist-
ance of money every thing might be obtained 4*.
Too great sacriﬁces, even in this respect, were
not requisite to obtain the object desired. It is
only in those countries, where they are continually

5‘ Pretz'o tut/1m im’ at patcm.

speaking
Page-328
AND LOVIER EGYPT. 297

speaking of virtue and of honour, and where, in
fact, they do not iexist, that the price of corrup~
tion is an effect of a considerable commerce to
which few people can attain; but it is moderate
in those places where honour not being in com-
men use, it is unnecessary to distribute gold to
purchase silence. I had just experienced a signal
act of justice, which, considering the manners of
the people of Egypt, and the circumstances under
which I had obtained it, might have passed for
injustice. A single minute\liad proved suﬂicient
to appease the most furious anger, and to make
its effects recoil on those who had provoked it;

and, nevertheless, it had only cost me from seven
to eight chequins.

Whatever protectionI had received from the
Kiasc/zefin public, I did not conceive it prudent to
place myself again at the mercy of the rabble on
board the boat. The four runaways who had occa-
sioned the disturbance and made the greatest up-
roar, in truth were no longer in the vessel; the
Kiasc/zefhad arrested them. Nevertheless there still
remainedthc Rois and several others entirelydevoted
to him, who might have assisted him in taking ven-
geance for the well-meritedchastisementlichadjust
received. I had accordingly made my arrange-
ments for quitting so vile a society, and {or wait-
ing another opportunity. The Kiasc/zqf to whom

I had
Page-329
298 TRAVELS IN UPPER

I had imparted my resolution, opposed the exam).-
tion of my plan with all his might ; he enjoined
me not to derange myself in the slightest degree,
assuring me by the Prop/7212i that nothing unpleasant
should befall me. Two officers of his household
were charged with conducting me back to the boat.
As I walked along to reach my chamber at the.
poop, the Ref: and Egyptian passengers kept a pros
found silence, but there was no difﬁculty in dis‘
cerning that it was the silence of fear and of rage.
The two Niamemes passed the night with me, and,
according to their instructions, signiﬁedto the Reis
that he was to look upon me as a man under the
protection of Mourat Bey, and that he should an-
swer with his head for my safety and tranquillity,
both to the Bey and to the Kizzmbef. At the same
time, in the name of the latter, they orderedse-
veral Mameluc oﬁicers on board another boat
which sailed in company with us, to take care that
no insult should be offered to me. It was agreed,
that, in case of any improper proceedings, I should
di5play my rrlzale at the poop, and that they should
instantly come to my assistance. I had no occa-
sion, for the remainder of my voyage, to have re-
course to external“ force, A few murmurs excepted,
which I cared not for, my trauquiility was not at all
disturbed, and I could enjoy in peace the satisfac-
tion which I felt in having extricated myself, with
so much success, from an adventure which might

have
Page-330
AND LOWER EGYPT. 299

have proved fatal to me, and in having escaped
a punishment which once appeared unavoidable.

At some distance below Miniet, the chain of’
mountains to the eastward of the Nile, projects
into the river, in a mass of rocks lofty and per=
pendicular, and causes in the waters a conﬁned
and rapid current. It is the mountain of birds,
which I have already taken notice of *. On the
summit of one of the piles of rock of which it is
formed, some solitary Cophts have established a.
monastery but little calculated to soften its rugged
and wild appearance.

An immense cut separates this ﬁle ot'rocks from
another which they callejeZIeZ Kermmi (mountain
of piles), because in truth. the masses of stone
appear to be piled one above another.

We halted on the evening of the 30th near a
district covered with date-trees. This natural
grove would have appeared beautiful in any situa-
tion ; but in the neighbourhood of barren moun-
tains, which weary the sight, and scare the imagi-
nation, it appeared truly delightful. As soon as
we had dropped anchor, the Mamelncs who sailed
in company with us, came to inquire ifI had any
ground of complaint; they obliged the Reis to

* See page 35 of this volume. .
apologize
Page-331
300 TRAVELS IN UPPER

apologize to me for the insolent remarks which he
still allowed to be made. I TCtCiVCd his excuses
with contempt; but I \\ as not sorry to see this
man, after endeavouring to do me so much mis-
chief, completely humbled in my presence.

We weighed anchor early in the morning of the
following day. Towards noon, however, the wind
blew so violently from the north, and the river be-
came so agitated, that the two boats were obliged
to seek shelter near an island called qulsjdr 812107726.
Ihad never before seen the waves of the Nile swell
so high : breaking short, they even threatened dan-
ger to small decked boats. These boats have no
other resource, when overtaken by these tempests,
but to present their poop to the surge, and to en-
deavour to keep in this situation, which does not
always prevent them from being upset.

Continuing on the gist to descend the Nile, we
saili-d again by a chain ofrocks, which the waters
touch for a considerable space, and which appear
to have experienced some convulsion. At the sum-
mit, a chapel indicates the burying-place of a holy
Mussulman, universally revered under the name of
Si‘lzeiaé Err/ﬂame. All the mountains to the east-
ward of the Nile are more elevated than those to
the westward ; they are also much nearer the river,
the shore of which they frequently form of them.-

selves:
Page-332
AND LOWER EGYPT. 301

selves: hut toward the west, the mountains are
much farther removed, and sometimes to so great
a distance, that they are scarcely perceptible from
the river. The former, that is to say, those which
are washed by the Nile, project above, while the
middle and lo“ er parts retire, being furrowed
lengthwise over the whole front which borders
the Nile to the very summit, as it the waters had
ﬂowed to this height against their declivity, and
had there marked the successive diminution of the
elevation of their course. Another general obser-
vation which the navigation of the” Nile enabled
me to, make, is, that when these mountains, or
rather these masses of rock toward the east, con-
ﬁne the current of the Nile, the shallows or sands
on the opposite shore advance also to a point, and
leave a very narrow channel to the river, which is
exceedingly formidable to navigators.

The Nile began to diffuse over the plains her
fertilizing waters. The canals were successively
ﬁlling. The part of Egypt whereI then was,
may be reckoned the most beautiful country in
nature; that where the eye embraces situations
the most picturesque, and'contrasts the most
striking. Towards the west, the country pro-
duces an abundance, which ages of cultivation
have not xhausted. Villages upon eminences

surrounded with water, appear with the trees

which
Page-333
302 TRAVELS 1N UPPER

which encompass them, like so many verdant“
islands, ﬂoating on the surface of a tranquil ba-
son. Towards the east, barren mountains, masses
of rock, heaped one above another, and devoted
to eternal sterility, present a forbidding uniformity,
unless where their clefts display little cottages
situated at small distances, and spots of ground
covered with various kinds of plants, particularly
with the sugar-cane, whose green and beautiful
colour is very pleasant to the sight.

We sailed past Fees/9726’, a market-town on the
western shore, which gives its name (Dsjebel
Far/me, mountain of Feslmé) to a mountain, not
so high as those which I have just mentioned, but
longer. It also renders the navigation more dana
gerous, because having undergone some commo-
tion, several fragments of the rock have loosened
and rolled into the river.

The Ist of September a dead calm kept us the
whole day before Bc’lie'; we departed thence on
the 2d. The chain of mountains of Fes/lne’, whieh
had diminished into little hills ofsand, rises again
below 86726”, and forms a very high and rounded
cape, which conﬁnes the course of the river : they
call it the mountain of 445020102173 from the name
of a saint, whose burying-p‘
the base. We passed Br

t..-
”1
rs
Page-334
AND LOKVER EGYPT. 303

Here the Nile extends itself to a vast distance,
and forms an immense sheet of water, above which
habitations and pieces of cultivated ground ap-
pear to ﬂoat.

Before Bowﬂz, the chain of mountains toward
the east is rounded into a.projecting point, and.
higher than the adjacent masses in the same chain.
This point is white, particularly in those parts
which have been worn by the current of the wa-
ter, and where the surface is of a dazzling white.
It is called Dsjeliel Guypse‘ (mountain of plaster).
A considerable quantity of plaster is, in fact, ex-
tracted from it, which they convey to Cairo in
long barges, extremely well constructed, and car-
rying only one square sail.

On the approach of night the vessel was moor~
ed opposite to a village called Meimozmz, built at
some distance from the shore. Iobserved some
pelicans skimming along the surface of the water,
and I remarked that the flight of this bird is in-
terrupted; that is to say, it ﬂaps its wings from
eight to ten times in succession; then it hovers in
the air; again it beats its wings, and so alternately
during the whole ofits ﬂight.

Opposite to Ilfeimozmz, on the eastern coast,

there is an old convent of Cophts; and some-
what
Page-335
30+ TRAVELS 1N UPPER.

what lower a point of rocks, known by the
name of Dsjebcl Nauzfi (the sailor’s mountain),
because of an Egyptian mariner who is buried
there, and whom his companions have canon-
ized.

Iii/1a was our last station before we arrived at
Cairo. The inundation was extending itself to
the westward, as far as the base of the immense
pyramid, which is visible several leagues from
Ri/zlz. As far as I could form a judgment at the
distance I then was, it appeared to be erected
upon a hill, which was itself ofa pyramidical form.

‘he summit appears to be broken. There is also
a little village on one side.

VVater-fowl seemed to be less common than in
that season when the Nile returns to its bed. But
if they do not appear so frequently on the river,
it is doubtless becausethe plains being inundated,
they extend themselves over a greater space.
Above the tops of lofty mountains, birds of prey
are seen hovering in great numbers; these are
peaceable retreats to them, where they build their
nests in the holes of the rock.

Scarcely had the morning of the 4th begun to
dawn, when the eagerness of the crew to arrive at
Cairo urgcdthem to spread two immense sails on the

boat.
Page-336
AND LOWER EGYPT. 305

boat. We dropped anchor in the evening, about
half a league’s distance from Old Cairo, before a.

Cophtish monastery, called De'z'r Ettin (monastery
of ﬁgs). It is there that the vessels which come
from the Said disembark their passengers and their
cattle, in order that they may appear in the ports
of Cairo with nothing but their cargo.

voL. m. x
Page-337
b:
O
C)

Hits-XV ELS IN UPPER

CllAI’. LIV.

Glut/re on tile exjwzlitz'ozz of tile Freud/z ill/o Egypt—
.7om'mjy from Cairo lo Basset/d—[Watering-ma-
c/ziues—Lesy of several arrimals—A/lacl’ 072 1/16
consul of [30556114 by [/16 Bedouim—Binls of fas-
sage—Hedge-lzog —- Frogs —- Reeds — flirts/i672—
Ramadmz—Depariure from Alexandria.

)IORE than ﬁve months spent in travelling over
Upper Egypt, that is to say, an extent in latitude
of about a hundred and eighty leagues, watered
by the Nile above Cairo, and terminating at the
Cataracts, or at theTropic, and a frequent residence
in the principal parts of this country, may have
given me sufﬁcient information to deliver my opi-
nion on the late expedition of the French. There
are so many people who speak onthissubject, with-
out knowing anything of the nature of the soil and
ot'the climate of Egypt, or ofthe manners of its in-
habitants ; there are so many eulogists, as insipid as
they are ignorant ; there are so many detractors ofa
dishonest character, that perhaps some degree ofina
terest will be excited by the frank and open decla-
ration of an observer, jealousvof the glory and the
power of his country, to whom slavish adulation,
and the gloomy sourncss of the malecontent, are

n I equally
Page-338
AND LOWER EGYPT. 307

equally unknown, and who cannot be denied the
privilege, whether he be attended to and consulted
or not, at least of speaking out with some conﬁ-
dence on a subject of which he has taken pains
to make himself master.

It may have been observed in the course ofthis
work, that I looked upon the project ofsubstituting
in“ room of our distant and perhaps insecure colo-
nies, another colony whose proximity to the mo—
ther-country, the almost miraculous fertility of the
soil, its adaptation to agriculture, its singularly fa-
vourable situation which renders it the medium of
the commerce ofthe wealthiest nations, its vicinity
to countries abounding in the most costly produc-
tions; in a word, whose speedy means of commu-
nication render it of far higher importance; I say,
it may have been observed that I looked upon this
project as a sublime thought, as the happiest of
conceptions, and its execution as one of those un~
common acts which shed a lustre on nations, and

which bears upon itself the evident stamp of im-
mortality.

Intallibly the possession ongypt will secure to
an enlightened and industrious nation the com.-
theme. of the Levant and of Barbary, and that of
the wealthy land of Yemen. The Indian seas, roll-
ing their waters with violence across its sands, dis-
play the practicability of a navigation, and of a

x 2 commerce,
Page-339
3e8 JRAVELS IN uprsrr

commerce, the sources of wealth incaleulable, par—
ticularly when the canal of junction between the
Nile and the Arabian gulf, one of the most con-
siderable and useful labours of the kings of ancient
Egypt, shall be discovered and dug up afresh. The
river itself, better known in its course, will see all
the obstacles which impede its navigation disap-
pear, and will waft along without danger, and aha
small CXpense, gold, and the other productions
which nature forms under the burning climate of
the interior of Africa; whilst the Moor, with his
scorched visage, the unwearied broker ofthose sul-
try regions, shall quit the route of the coasts of
Africa, and conduct his caravans into Egypt, as
soon as he is certain of being in safety there, of
ﬁnding protection as well as abundance of the ob-
jeets of which he makes his returns. Connexions
founded on commerce and on interest, but disen~
gaged from all ambition of religious conquest, the
pious mania of indisereet missionaries, and which
has excluded the natives of Europe from an im-
mense and important country, may be formed with
the Abyssinians, whose possessions are watered by
the same river° New accumulations of wealth will
discover themselves with new nations; and extend-
ing these connexions by degrees, the knowledge
of a part of the globe will be attained, into the bo-
som of which the heroes of antiquity, as well as
the most daring modern adventurers, have been hi-
therto unable to penetrate.

In
Page-340
AND LOW’ER EGYPT. 309

In speaking ofdiscoveries, I have pointed out the
only species ofconquest which philosophy adopts,
and which neither occasions the shedding of blood
nor of tears; that alone which produces pure en-
joyment, and which an enlightened nation places
in the ﬁrst rank. The sciences and the arts also
shall ﬁnd in Egypt a repository, a nursery; and the
riches which shall ﬂow trom thence will have a
destination more ample, more generous, since their

distribution will extend to every nation of the
globe.

Agriculture will assume a new form ; and being
better understood, it will add the treasures ofabun-
dance to the accumulation of wealth already so
considerable. I have enumerated its principal pro-
ductions; I have pointed out such as may be cul-
tivated with success, and the reunion ofwhich pro-
mises to eclipse the most valuable commodities of
the wealthiest colony. The limits of fertility will
be enlarged at least as far as to the chains of moun-
tains which seem to mark its boundary on both
sides of the Nile. Nay, perhaps, industry, guided
by science, may discover the means of raising vege-
tation on the sandy and desert plains, which be-
hind these mountains extend themselves to the
east and to the west.

But

H
L»
Page-341
310 TRAVELS IN U'PPER

But the consequences which would int‘alliblyen—
sue, under favourablecircumstances,have been pre-
vented under those which have accompanied the
French expedition into Egypt. War is universally
allowed to be the greatest impediment to the esta—
blishment of colonies. Like a devouring conﬂa-
gration, it consumes, it destroys every thing which
it approaches ; commerce, agriculture, every source
ofpublie prosperity, is dried up or annihilated; the
bright flame of the torch which the genius of the
arts and sciences displays to enlighten mankind,
grows pale at the spectacle of public calamity, and
is at length extinguished in the tears which misfor-
tune every where causes to ﬂow. The pestilential
breath ofambitiouspassions stiﬂes the voice ofphi-
losophy; all good vanishes; every species of woe
accumulates. Instead of waters producing fruit-
fulness, the earth is inundated with blood, the [cr-
tility of which is dreadful. Ravage succeeds to cul~
tivation, and famine takes the place of abundance.
.Misfortunes ofevery kind throng the stage of the
theatre of desolation and blood which war rears;
and the man of sensibility, with a wounded spirit
and a heart oppressed with sorrow, feels his indig-
nation roused against atrocious wretches, who in
the pursuits of ambition make a cruel sport of the
life of men, and whose ferocionsness has no coun-
terpart in nature; the tigers at least never revel
in the blood of their own species.

No
Page-342
AND LOWER EGYPT, 311

No real liappinesscan exist independent of peace;
without it no society can prosper. If these incon-
testable truths are applied to the expedition into
Egypt, it will bean easy matter to discern that the
new colony, desolated by the double plague of an
intestine and external war, can never attain a ﬂou-
rishing condition. The various tribes which in-
habit it, and. which perhaps ought to have been
disposed for revolution rather than attacked as ene-
mies ; animated by a fanaticism extravagant, be—
cause it is founded on the grossest ignorance, and
inﬂamed besides by the enemies of France and of
the general repose, abandon the cultivation ofthe
ground or lay waste the crops, if any have been
produced. The ﬁelds are trampled under the feet
ofwarriors, and all the horrid preparatives for car-
nage; plains, which a succession of ages had seen
arrayed in harvests the most copious, with wonder
behold themselves overshadowed by tents. The
labours which the military art requires operate only
to the detriment of that of agriculture. Several
points on the surface of the earth change their ap-
pearance and their nature, and it is easy to con-
ceive how prejudicial these partial derangements
must bein a country where fertility is, ifl may use
the expression, merely factitious, and where it can-
not exist atall without the aids which the people of
ancient Egypt have multiplied with so much skill
and judgment.

1‘

The

:4
4;
Page-343
312 TRAVELS IN UPPER

The devastatiOn which the necessities ofa large
army must require, and military labours of every
kind, are So many wounds given to agriculture.
The trees, which are so valuable in Egypt, where
wood of every description is extremely scarce, will
fall beneath the hatchet of necessity or ofmalevo-
lence; the destruction will ensue of the ancient
plantations, a necessary asylum against the heat of
the climate, and of groves always verdant, and
loaded with Sweet and refreshing fruits. . By this
means, at a moment when peace shall be restored,
it will be requisite to repair the ravages of war and
ofbarbarism, before any plans of improvement can
be carried into execution; an immense undertaking,

but not too difﬁcult for the courage and activity of
the French.

An excessive heat, particularly in the southern
extremity of Egypt; the hurricanes of the south
rolling along clouds ofdust and of flames, may ap-
pear inconveniences sufﬁciently serious to deter
individuals from an inclination to inhabit the new
colony. But the coolness of the night relieves the
scorching heat of day, and the southern impetuous
gusts, which are certainly attended with danger,
very seldom arise. There is no ancient colony but
what presents greater discouragements ; but there
is no one which possesses more numerous advan-

tages. The climate is by no means unhealthy.
With
Page-344
AND LOWER EGYPT. 313

With a little precaution, a person has the prospect
ofliving to a great age, and free from complaints
of every description, excepting the diseases of the
eyes, which are in a great measure unavoidable.

In Lower Egypt the climate is not so severe.
Rains and waters diffused in the greatest abun-
dance, produce more freshness over the immense
and humid plains, thanthe barren mountains either
contract or dry up with a scorching reverberation.
The manners of the peOple, like the climate, are
less harsh, and the traveller is there exposed to far
less danger.

With what satisfaction did I ﬁnd myselfagain in
this country, which appeared in my eyes a tranquil
abode, when compared with the Said, and in which
commerce had induced several Europeans to ﬁx
their residence ! I did not however see again my
fellow-countrymen at Cairo; I had too strong an
impression on my mind of the anxiety which I ex-
perienced in the narrow limits to which fear con~
ﬁned them. Besides, the neighbourhood ofCairo
was in the greatest agitation; the beys had en-
camped in the environs, and were preparing to
march their forces against the enemy who threaten-
ed an attack from Upper Egypt. 1 hastened over
the spots which were occupied by a horde of sol-
diers, under no discipline whatever, and favoured

by
Page-345
314 TRAVELS 12¢ UPPER

by my disguise, Ipassed through the middle of
them without attracting their attention. Leaving
Cairo on the right, I proceeded to Boa/ac, in the
expectation of ﬁnding a boat to convey me to
Rossetta; but they had all been retained for the
service of the army. I fell in with a reis however,
the same who brought me from Rossetla. He had
left his [ganja at Beissozzs, a village below Boulac,
being apprehensive that it would have been taken
from him. We travelled by land as far as Sc/zoulmz,
another village between Boulm: and Beirsous, and
departed thence in a small shallop tojoin the boat.

We quitted Beissous on the 6th September, at
eight o’clock in the evening, by the unclouded
light of the moon. It was something new to usto
enjoy tranquillity again,after having been deprived
of it for so many months. \Ve were no longer
torn with the deep anxiety which never ceased to
prey upon our minds during our journey through
the Said. There were, it is true, several pirates of
the Nile in these latitudes also; but besides the
smallness of their number, they were exceedingly
tiznorous, and hardly ever ventured to attack vessels
when they suspected Europeans were on board,
being apprehensive oftheir ﬁrearms. The masters
of the boats, accustomed to navigate for the com»
merce of Europe,wcre in general persons worthy of
conﬁdence; and the waters ofthe river, unconﬁned

by
Page-346
AND LOWER EGYPT; 315

by a steep shore or mountains of rocks, are never
agitated by the conﬂict of a rapid current and the
impetuosity of the wind, but ﬂow along smoothly
and unimpeded, between two low and slimy banks,
against which the boats are in no danger of being
dashed to pieces.

The farmers of this part of Egypt never employ-
ed for the watering of their land the same swipe.
levers which are to be seen above Cairo. Industry
has there made a greater progress. They make use
of a sort of wheel with a chain-pump, which is
turned by oxen, and which, raising the waters of
the Nile, diffuse them over the plains or the adja-
cent gardens. But whether it be that the construc-
tion ofthese hydraulic machines, although exceed-
ingly simple, appears too expensive to be under-
taken by husbandmen in general, or whether they
are unwillingto multiplythem, being only employ-
ed for temporary waterings; I saw them put in
practice besides another sufﬁciently singular mode
of conducting the water over the cultivated lands.
Two men seated on the bank of the river, at a.
certain distance from one another, hold each the
end of a rope, in the middle of which is ﬁxed a
coqﬂ'e or basket ofrushes; by means of a constant
balancing motion which they give the cord, the
basket is ﬁlled with water, and at the extremity of

the
Page-347
3:6 TRAVELS IN UPPER

the arch which they make it describe, it empties it-
self into the furrow prepared to receive and con-
duct it.

The passage from Beissous to Basset/a was not
long; we arrived there on the 7th, at six o’clock
in the morning. I found again the persons who
had shewn me so much friendship, during my for-
mer residence in that city, but none ofthe animals
which I had left there were alive. I was informed
that they had all perished several days before my
arrival, excepting one antelope, which seemed to
have escaped solely to enable them to exact the
amount ofthe hire ofthe place where these animals
had been shut up, as it was necessary that they
should have died but a little before, in order that it
might be in their power to make me pay for the
expense of feeding them.

Some time after my departure from Rossetta,
the consul, whose polite attention to me was uni-
form, had been attacked on his return from Alex-
andria by the Bedouins. They were not content
with plundering him; they offered violence be—
sides, and more than once threatened to murder
him. They kept him till‘the evening, as well as
his servant, stretched upon the sand, and exposed
to the scorching heat ofday. It was suspected that

4 these
Page-348
AND LOWER EGYPT, 317

these Bedouins belonged to the tribe of Hussein,
the very one which had conducted mewith so
much good faith through the desert of Nitria, and
defended me with such valour against the attacks
of another tribe. The precaution which they took
of tying a bandage across the eyes of the consul’s
servant, who had accompanied me in my journey
over the desert, was a presumption of some weight,
and which perfectly coincides with what I have
mentioned respecting the customs of this wander-
ing and extraordinary nation, with whom virtue is
allied to plunder, and who pillage and protect
alternately, according to circumstances.

It was the season for the passage of those birds
which at the approach of the frosts quit our icy
countries, during a part of the year when nature
is in a state oftorpor or of death, in search of eli-
mates less severe, and of a plentiful supply of nou-
rishment. From the month of August, they catch
nearthc coasts of Egypt, and particularly in the
neighbourhoodofAlexandria, animmense quantity
of ﬁg-peekers *. The passage of these little birds

* Becﬁgue, Buffon, Hist. Nat. des Ois. et pl. enlum. No.
668. ﬁg. I.—Il[omcz'lla ﬁccdula. Lin. It is not to be supposed
that all the birds which are taken in large quantities on their
arrival at Egypt, are real ﬁg~peckers; there are to be found
among them several little birds of differentspecies, such as the
fauvcltt, which is frequently mistaken for the fig-pecker.

lasts
Page-349
318 TRAVELS 1N UPPER

lasts about three months, during which period the
Egyptians catch them in great quantities, by rub-
bing bird-lime on the trees and bushes upon which
they settle. They sell them either alive or pluck-
ed. In order to strip them of their feathers, they
bury them for a moment in the sand, the heat of
which, by melting their fat, renders it an easy mat-
ter to pull out the feathers, and prepares them to
become a very delicate repast.

I remarked more particularly at Rossetta and at
Alexandria, some other species of birds of passage
during the month of September, the period when
the absence ofthese new guests ofa country more
mild, transforms our naked forests into gloomy so-
litudes. The bird which ﬁlls our groves with his
shrill whistling, as it cmbellishes them with his
brilliant plumage, theloriot 9‘“ perches himself, from
preference, on the mulberry-trees ofthe gardens in
the environs of inhabited places; but he does not
utter his sonorons voice; he is silent in Egypt;
he has not t ere to sing his loves. He serves for
food, and his passage is little more than ﬁfteen
days. They likewise eat guépiers’?‘ (wasp-eaters),
which the Provencals name sirezzes, and the Greeks

9f Loriot, Buffon, Hist. Nat. des Ois. et pl. enlum. No. 26.

-—Orz'olu.r gaM/tla. Lin.
f Guépier, Buffon, Hist. Nat. des Ois. et pl. enlum. No.
938.——.Jeropr (glimmer. L111. . \
me/Iso
Page-350
AND LO‘WER EGYPT. 319

71261255 org/1?, (bee’s enemy). But this is not a highly
esteemed species of food. There are likewise ﬁy~
catchers 5“, which are caught with a net or with
bird-lime. Another bird, less delicate still than

those of which I have been just speakino‘ and

b,
which is not less the victim of the voracity of man
on its arrival on the coasts of Egypt, is the red
speckled magpie v}, called by the Arabs dagnozrsse.
and by the Provencals (larngzm. They are caught
in nets in pretty large numbers. They are sold
alive, as well as all those birds which the law of
Mahomet forbids to be strangled, and which must
not be used for food till after they have been bled.
But as these latter are very viciOus, and as they
cruelly nip the fingers, the bird-catchers take care
to tie together the two ends ofthcir beak with one
of their feathers. You see there likewise rol-
liers it, which the Provencals call Hare/5, wood-

peckers§, 8C6. 8m.

But there is no passage of birds more consider-
able, and at the same time more unaccountable,

* Gobe mouche, premiere eSpece, Buffon, Hist. Nat. des Ois.
et pl. enlum. No. 565, ﬁg. I.-—3ﬁucimpa grim/a. Lin.

f Pie griéche rousse, Bullion, Hist. Nat. des Ois. enlnm.
NOS. 9 et 31.— Lam'u: [al.urio. Lin.

1 Rollier d’Europe, Bullion, Hist. Nat. des Ois.—Coracia:
garrz/la. Lin.

§ Pic-vert, Buffon, Hist. Nat.des Ois.. er pl.enlum. Nos.
371 et 879.—-Pz‘ru; Writ/ix. Lin.

than
Page-351
320 TRAVELS IN UPPER

than that of the quails. They arrive and re-assem-
blc on the sandy shores of Egypt in very nume-
rous companies. It is difﬁcult to conceive how a
bird, who'se ﬂight is heavy, and which cannot long
continue on the wing, which we see alight in our
ﬁelds almost as soon as in motion, should venture
to traverse so vast an extent of sea. The islands
which are scattered over the Mediterranean, the
vessels which sail along its surface, serve them in-
deed for resting-places and for shelter when the
winds become stormy or contrary to their direc-
tion. But even these asylums, which the quail
has not always strength enough to reach, and the
distance of which frequently occasions its loss,
prove also places of destruction to it. Too
much fatigued to escape, they permit themselves
to be taken easily upon inhospitable shores; they
are caught without difﬁculty by the hand on the
rigging of ships; and when excess of weariness
preventsthetn from rising high enough to perch
upon it, they dash violently against the hull, fall
back, stunned by the shock, and disappear in the
waves. Whatever may be the dangers of a long
voyage, which these birds seem unqualiﬁed to per-
form, whatever diminution of number the troops
of these feeble travellers may undergo in the pas-
sage, there arrives, notwithstanding, sogreat amul—
titude in the neighbourhood of Alexandria, that

the quantity to be seen there is really past belief.
The
Page-352
AND LO\VER EGYPT. 321

The towlers of Egypt catch them in nets. Du:
ring the ﬁrst days after their passage, such num-
bers are on sale in the markets of Alexandria,
that three, and sometimes four, may be bought
for a medina, or for ﬁfteen or sixteen deniers
(not three farthings). The crexxs of merchant—
ships were fed upon them ; and there existed at
the consul’s oﬂice at Alexandria several com-
plaints preferred by mariners against their cap-
tains, for giving them nothing but quails to eat.

In walking over the gardens of Rossetta, a
hedgehog was pointed out to me, which in Ara~
bic is called 60/2f/716’SS ’5. This quadruped is com-
mon in Lower Egypt, but in Upper Egypt it is
not to he met with. The neighbouring pools
were ﬁlled with thousands of frogs, which make
a terrible noise. The reeds among which these
reptiles conceal themselves at the bottom of the
water, serve to make ropes, which are in general

USC.

I found the same idea prevailed at Rossetta as
in the Said, respecting the property ascribed to
the smoke of mastich: but with this ditfcrence,
that in Upper Egypt it was considered as being
abSolutely mortal to the sick who inhaled it;
-whercas at Rossetta it was only looked upon as

* Erz'naceu: Euro/new.
VOL. III. Y being
Page-353
322 TRAVELS IN UPPER

being pernicious to them. For this reason, the
sick, in order to avoid the danger of breathing
this fume in a country where mastich is frequently
burnt, are careful to hold an onion constantly
under their nose, the odour of which, if it be
more wholesome than that ofmastich, is undoubt;
edly much less agreeable. All the mastich which
is consumed in Egypt is brought from the island
of $520, in the Archipelago. The women con:
stantlyr eat small pieces of it melted with wax,
they mingle it in ragouts, and they perfume with
it those vessels which are set apart to cool water

in, as well as almost every household utensil.

The Ramadan or fast of the lVIussulrnans be-
gan this year on the 22d September. In the
evening 1 saw the ceremony of its opening at
Rossetta : all the tradesmen assemble together in
companies, and march in procession through the
city, lighted from iron pots carried upon the point
of long sticks, in which chips of resinous wood
re kindled. The chief of each of these corpora:
tions of mechanics, mounted upon a beautiful
horse, is decked in an extraordinary garb: se-
veral of them also wear vizors. The people
greatly applauded this masquerade, but expres-
sions of joy and approbation were particularly
audible when the chief nightman appeared dis-F
guised as an European. This fact may convey a

3 PI‘OPCI
Page-354
AND LOWER EGYPT. 32.3

proper conception of the respect in which we are
heldin this part ofthe world.

It is not only unlawful either to eat or drink
during the month which the Ramadan lasts, from
the rising to the setting of the sun, but it is as
strictly forbidden to chew or even to smoke to-
hacco. The labouring man, overcome by fatigue
and by the heat, parched with thirst, is yet farther
reduced by emptiness. But the severity ofa long
fast has nothing oppressive to the man of wealth;
he can in every place elude the laws; the pOOr
man alone is oppressed to the full extent of their
execution. If the Ramadan is a period of fasting
very difﬁcult to be borne by him who is supported
by his labour, it is an era of pleasure to the opti-
lent; they make a lent and a carnival of it at one
and the same time. As soon as the sun is set,
feasting, dancing, mnsic, spectacles throughout
the streets succeed to the rigid abstinence of the
day. The idle and useless man thus passes the
night amidst diversions, and sleep preyents him
from perceiving the lapse of time.

After having rested a few days at: Rossetta I re-
turned to Alexandria, where I resumed my ordi-
nary clothing, to which it was some time before
Icould again accustom myself. A vessel of the
number of those appropriated to supply caravans,

OT
Page-355
324, TRAVELS IN EGYPT.

or to the coasting trade along the seas of the Leo
vant, was preparing to sail for Smyrna: I took
this Opportunity of ﬁnding, my way into Greece
and Turkey. I separated from all my companions,
whose task was to ﬁnish with the expedition
through Egypt, excepting him who was parti-
cularly attached to me. The vessel on board
which I embarked sailed from the new port of
Alexandria on the 17th of October 1778, and I
soon lost sight of the ﬂat and naked regions of a
country, where the prodigies of art seemed to vie
with the wonders of nature.

THE END.

W

S. GOSNELL, Printer,
Little Queen Street, Holbom.
Page-356

Page-357
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA LIBRARY
Los Angeles

This book is DUE on the last date stamped below.

      

“/Ziﬁaﬁﬁtmy

ME 2 wxs vROM DATE REBEWED . .

O

 

,, --: ‘ ' 1. ‘ W"; —u q;-
‘1 » f~ - —— -
.5 f: ~\E if .,\3 Lﬁg E!
- l. .f - - I ‘ > ‘L > :5 ‘
r ?— J ' z’ I b—J :' fl “7 = .s
,4 <- q - r.‘ T . N - ‘
'{ ’._-' - I l :‘ .._ .5 .. ‘ {‘3' "s E E .
\“ ﬁ'.‘ u' H V W -- “‘I- 9"- ”Midway.” 7mm,

H a «pn- an
M" H‘ \P“ '
If
{\4 H;
M elm m
u' t \ML' °
.72 w. av:
_.Io'-.W:|x{»
a ’-
%

,
.:4
7.,
‘3.
5.-
.‘i
t
5
Page-358
1||1|llllll||l|1IHIIIHIIIIHII1I1||H|§|'||!|1l|!;||||l|||||||

3 1158 00424 7952 ’*

I” ,m‘p
”vﬁtw'
Lr ' “ﬂaw

RRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR

000191516 ‘4 >
Page-359
.. f :i:
I; ' 'H . I. m i v H‘::.:
hllhlf :V'IE.” ...l.l ;“, :,:'.'|
1mm“ 5 , ”1 n .