 

 

U. Egypt.

theancients. Ithaselsobeenesub-

ject of controversy among modern
writers; some of whom, notwith-
atandin the numerous inscriptions,
which ecide it to have been the vocal
Memnon of the Romans, have thought
iit to doubt its being the very statue
said by ancient authors to utter a
sound at the risin of the sun.

Strabo, who visited it with Elius
Gallus, the governor of Egypt, con-
fesses that he heard the sound, but
could “ not atiirm whether it pro-
ceeded from the pedestal or from the
statue itself, or even from some of
those whostood nearitabase;"and
it appears, from his not mentioning
the name of Memnon, that it was not
yet supposed to be the statue ofthat
doubtful personage. But the igno-
rance of the Roman visiters, shortly
after, ascribed it to the “Son of
Tithonus,"and a multitude of inscrip-
tions testiﬁed his miraculous powers,
and the credulity of the writers.

Previous to Strabo’s time, the
“ upper part of this statue, above the
throne, had been brolten and hurled
down,” as he was told, “ by the shock
of an earthquake;" nor do the re-
pairs aﬂemards made to it appear to
date prior to the time of Jurenal,
since the poet thus refers to its frac-
tured condition: —
tam magic- resonant ubt Nemnone

chordn.
But from the account in the Apollo-
nius 'I‘hyaneus of Philostratus, we
might conclude that the statue had
been already repaired as early as the
age of Juvenal, who was also a co-
temporary of the emperor Domitian ;
since Damis, the companion of the
philosopher, asserts that the “ sound
was uttered when tne sun touched
its lips." But the license of
and the ﬁctions of Damis render both
authorities of little weight in deciding
this point.

The foot was also broken, and
repaired; but if at the same time
asthe upper part, the epoch ofits
restoration must date after the time

'1'!!! VOCAL STATUS.

 

849

of Adrian, or at the close of his reign,
as the inscription on the left foot has
been cut through to admit the clamp
which united the restored pert.

Pliny, following the opinionthen in
vogue, calls it the statue of Memnon,
and adds that it waaerectedbefore
the temple of Barapin—a stran
mistake, since the temple of that deli;
was never admitted within the pre-
cincts of an Egyptian city, and the
worship of Sarapis was unknown in
Egypt at the epoch of its foundation.

Thenature of the stone, which was
also supposed to oﬂ‘er some diﬂculty,
is a coarse hard ritstone, “ spotted,“
according to tses' expression,
with numerous chalcedonies, and here
and there covered with black and red
oxide of iron. The height of either
Colossus is 47 feet, or 53 above the
plain, with the pedestal, which, now
buIied from 6 feet 10 inches to
7 feet below the surface, completes,
toitsbase,a totalofGO. The re-
pairs of the vocal statue are of blocks
of sandstone, placed horisontally, in
tire layers, and forming the body,
head. and upper pesto the arms;
but the line of hieroglyphics at the
back has not been completed, nor is
there any inscription to announce the
era or name of its restorer. The ac-
curacy of Peusanias, who states that
“ the Thebans deny this is the statue
of Memnon, but of Phamenoph, their
countr man,” instead of clearing the
point In question, was sup
oti'er an additional dimculty: butthe
researches of Pocoche and Hamilton
have long since satisfactorily proved
this to be the Mﬂnnon of the ancients;
who, we learn by an inscription on
the left foot, was supposed also to
bear the name of Hnmenoth. The
hieroglyphic labours of M. Chant-
pollion have thrown still further light
on the question, and Amunoph once
more asserts his claims to the statues
heerected.

The destruction of the upper part
has been attributed to Cambysea, by

,thewriters ofsomeoftbeiuscripdoes,

