 

226

beyond is another mound, said to
have belonged tothe old town. Aller
many inquiries and searching all over
the place, I found nothing but the
its thresholds of doors, and co-
umns of Roman time in the princi-
pal mask. A few large stones are
also seen hens and there, but none
bearing hieroglyphics, except psrt of
a column, apparently of Ptolemaie
time, in the smaller ruined mo‘sk,
and a stone at the door of a shelth's
tomb at the south end of the village.
This has belonged to an ancient tomb,
and is of old style, like the false doors
ofgrottoes at El Bersheh; but nothing
can be traced relating to the name of
Busiris, nor to the worship of the
deity from whom it was so called.

Seamed is a place of some siae,
with the usual hasisrs of the large
towns of Egypt, and famous for its
pottery, which is sent to Cairo. Here
are the mounds of Sebennytus, the city
of Sem, (Gem, or Gain.) the Egyp-
tian Hercules. In COptic it is called
Gemnouti, which implies “ Gem the
God,” and shows the origin of the
present as well as the orthography of
the ancient name; and it is remark-
able that the name of the god begins
with the word acute in many legends.

On arriving at Semenood, I in-
quired of the pe0ple for sculptured
stones, and was shown some granite
blocks with hieroglyphies, two of
which had the name of Alexander,
and one the ﬁgure of the deity of the
place, who is the same supposed by
Champollion to be the Egyptian Gem
or Hercules. It lies close to the
principal oil-mill of the town, the
owner of which is most profuse in his
praises of the stone, his property,
which he would willingly sell to the
ﬁrst bidder. On a block built into
the modern quay are a few hierogly-
phics of no importance.

Boats are constantly employed in
keeping up the communication with
the different towns of the Delta
throughout the year, the rats callin
out the name of the place he isbounﬁ

noon ll. -— canto 'ro namna.

 

 

Sect. II.

for, to obtain passengers, like the
conductor of an omnibus.

A Greek papyrus in the [reunion
of Signor d'Anastasy, the Swedish
consul-general, speaks of a temple of
Mars, Orovpts (Onuris, Honurius), at
Schennytus; and it is much to be re-
gretted that this curious document
has not been published.

Bebayl-el- Hagar, thesncient Issum,
is little more than 6 miles below Be-
menood, opposite Weesh, and about
15 mile from the river. The remains
are very interesting, and larger than
in any other town of the Delta. They
are inferior in style to those of San
(Tania), being of a Ptolemaic time;
but the number of sculptured blocks,
and the beauty of the granite, used in
this temple, are very striking; and if
Bebayt does not boast the number of
obelisks, which must have had a very
grand effect at Tania, it has the merit
of possessing rich and elaborate sculp-
tures; and to the antiquary is par-
ticularly interesting, from its present-
ing the name of the deity worshipped
there, and that of the ancient town.
Isis was evidently the divinity of this
city, and it was from this that the
Greeks and Romans gave it the name
of lsion or lseum. By the Egyp-
tians it was called Hebai or Hebait,
“ the city of assembly,” which has
been preserved by the modern inha-
bitants in the name Bebayt; with the
aﬂix el Haggar, “ of the stone,” from
its numerous stone remains.

The temple, like many others in
Egypt, stood in an extensive square
about l500 by 1000 feet, surrounded
by a crude brick wall, doubtless with
stone gateways; which was the nurses
or sacred enclosure, and was planted
with trees, as Herodotus informs
us in describing that of Buhastis.
These are the graves denounced in
the Bible as an abomination to the
God of Israel. (Exod. xxsiv. 13.;
Deut. xii. 8.; 2 Kings xvii. 10.)

The temple itself was about 400
feet long, or 600 to the outer vesti-
bule, by about 900 in breadth, and

