 

182

presenting more than once the name
of the king above mentioned, and
evidently written upon the blocks be-
fore they were put into their present
places, as some are turned upside
down, and others are partly covered
by the adjacent stones. Many of them
may still be traced; though the ad-
mission of air, and, above all, the
rage for writing names, which is here
done with the smoke of candles, will
soon cause them to disappear. The
number of visitors, however, to these
chambers is likely now to be very
limited, as the wooden steps at the
end of the gallery are beginning to
decay, one or two having been taken
away, and the ascent is by no means
easy without a ladder.

It seems singular that while the
roofs of these chambers are smooth
and even, the floors are left rough;
and in some, the inequalities of the
stones are of several feet, plainly
showing them not to have been in-
tended for 'any use beyond that of
relieving the king's chamber from the
superincumbent weight. Towards the
ends of the blocks in the ﬂoor of the
uppermost room are small square
holes, the use of which it is difﬁcult
to determine. They are probably con-
nected with their transport from the
quarry, or their elevation to their
present position.

At the bottom of the great gallery,
on the W. side, is a pas partly
vertical, partly slanting and tnegular,
generally called “ the well,” which is
now closed. It connects the gallery
with the lower passage; and in de-
scending it some years ago, I observed
that the rock rose to the height of
about 79 feet above the level of the
ground, showing that the pyramid
was built over a small bill, which
may be called the nucleus of the
fabric. The well is nearly 200 feet
deep, which is the distance between
the two passages, the point where it
enters the lower one being 91 feet
below the level of the pyramid's base.
It was by this well that the workmen

came. — nonwon 4.

 

Seotll'.

descended, after they had closed the
lower end of the upper passage with
the block of granite before mentioned;
and having reached the lower pas-
sage, they followed it upwards to the
mouth of the pyramid, which they
stopped in the same manner; and
it is to this last that Straho alludes
when he says it was closed by a stone
ﬁtted into the mouth of the passage.
The lower passage is a continuation of
the one by which you entered, and
left on ascending near the granite
block; on returning to which point
from the great gallery, you continue
the descent by the lower passage for
925 feet (or from the present entrance
of the pyramid 306 feet), and then
reach the mouth of the well, from
which to the lower chamber is 53 fact
more, nearly half at the same angle,
and the rest on a level. When in this
chamber you are 105 feet below the
base of the pyramid, and about the
same level as the plain under the rock
on which it stands.

This chamber was left unfinished,
and on the W. side are several pro.
jecting pieces of the rock cut into
irregular shapes. In the wall, op.
posite its entrance, is a small un—
ﬁnished passage, extending 52 feet in
a southerly direction, leading to no
room; and in the ﬂoor between this
and the entrance is a pit placed dia-
gonall y with regard to the walls, which
was excavated by Colonel Howard
Vyse to the depth of 86 feet, without
leading to any result. Nor did he
succeed in ﬁnding the canal mentioned
by Herodotus. Indeed, I doubt the
assertion of the historian, respecting
the introduction of the waters of the
Nile, which, in the days of Suphis or
Cheaps, must have been on a much
lower level than at the present time.

On the N. wall of the great gallery
I observed the names of Aibelt, Bay.
hers, and Sultan Mohammed, which
were either written by visitors during
those reigns, or by some one who
wished to deceive future travellers.

kAihek was the first king oftha

