 

xxvi INTRODUCTION.

the Clarence, in the same street; and the Victoria, in Strada Gio-
vanni, opposite St. John’s church. The smaller ones are, Vicary’s,
in Strada Vescovo, looking upon the Parade, lately taken by another
person, and ﬁtted up under the name of the Princess Royal Hotel;
the Hotel de la Mediterrauée, in Strada Beale; the Hotel d’Orient,
in Strada Teatro; and a few others of less note.

Morell's is very comfortable, and the prices there and at Duns-
ford’s are about the same. Madame Goubeau’s is the only hotel
with a table d'ltdte, which is at 5 o'clock in summer and 6 in
winter, and is pretty good. The house has the advantage of hot
and cold baths. The Mediterranée is small, but has the reputation
of having by far the best cuisine; it is therefore much frequented as
a restaurant, and the prices are moderate. At Morell’s a bed-room,
furnished to answer also as a sitting-room, is charged as. a day:
breakfast, of tea, bread and butter, and eggs, ls. 6d,; with toast
and coffee, 28.; with meat, 8m, 2s. 6d.: plain dinner, with soup,
meat, &c., 33., and with side dish, 43.: tea, 6d.,.and with bread and
butter, ls.

Dunsford‘s is about the same, or a little cheaper.

At the Clarence, a bed- room 23., and bed-room with small sitting-
room 43., larger apartments paying in proportion: breakfast 1:,
and ls. 6d.: private dinner 33. to 4.9., and at table d‘Mte 2s. 6d.,
exclusive of wines.

There are also lodging-houses, many of which are very comfort-
able: two belonging to Dunsford, in Strada Forni, and Strada
Zecca: Morelli’a, in Strada Beale, close to the church of Santa
Catharina; and one or two more in Strada Forni. They are well
adapted for persons intending to make some stay in Malta, and
then it is better to come to an agreement, according to the time.
The usual price of a bed-room and sitting-room is about 5:. a day,
and small rooms are charged 33. The average price of dinner is 4.9.,
and breakfast ls. 6d.

English money is the current coin in Malta, from a sovereign to
a farthing.

Carriages and Horses. —Carriages, with a pair of horses, let at
45 dollars a mouth ;. a pair of horses, without carriage, 40 dollars;
by the day, 3 dollars ; half a day, 1} dollar- A saddle-horse for the
whole day, 5:. to 63.; half a day, 2s. 6d. ;. from 9 A. at. until evening
4:. to 53.; from 9 to 2 o’clock, 3.9. to a dollar; and from 3 o’clock
till 9, 2:. ed. to 3:. If you keep a calesse with one horse, the food
of the horse will cost 10d. a day; and the calessier, besides attend-

