 

384

and dried fruits. Their dress is short,
similar to that of some of the Asiatic
tribes, who are represented at Medeé-
net Haboo.
In the second line are a people of
a light red hue, with long black hair
descending in ringlets over their
shoulders, but without beards: their
dress also consists of s short apron,
thrown round the lower part of the
body, meeting and folding over in
front, and they wear sandals richly
worked. Their presents are vases of
elegantform, ornamented with ﬂowers,
necklaces, and other costly gifts,
which, according to the hieroglyphics,
they bring as “ chosen (offerings) of
the chiefs of the Gentiles of Kufa.”
In the third line are EthiOpians,
who are styled “ Gentiles of the
South.” The leaders are dressed in
the Egyptian costume, the others
have a girdle of skin, with the hair,
as usual, outwards. They bring gold
rings, and bags of precious stones ('3),
hides, apes, leopards, ebony, ivoty,
ostrich eggs, and plumes, a cameleo-
pard, hounds with handsome collars,
and a drove of long-horned oxen.
The fourth line is composed of men
of a northern nation, clad in long white
garments, with s blue border, tied at
the neck. and ornamented with a
cross or other devices. On their head
is either a close cap, or their natural
hair, short, and of s red colour, and
they have a small beard. Some
bring long gloves, which, with their
close sleeves, indicate, as well as their
white colour, that they are the in-
habitants of a cold clime. Among
other offerings are vases, similar to
those of the Kufa, a chariot and
horses, s bear, elephant, and ivory.
Their name is Rot-ﬁ-no, which re-
minds us of the Ratheni of Arabia
Petraea; but the style of their dress
and the nature of their offerings re-
quire them to have come from a
richer and more civilised country,
probably much farther to the north.
In the ﬁfth line Egyptians lead the
van, and are followed by women of

THEBEB. - PRIVATE T011138.

 

Sect. IV.

Ethiopia (Cash), “ the Gentiles of
the South,” carryin their children in
a pannier suspend from their head.
Behind these are the wives of the
Rot ﬁ-no, who are dressed in long
robes, divided into three sets of ample
ﬂounces.

The offerings being placed in the
presence of the monarch,who is seated
on his throne at the upper part of the
picture, an inventory is taken of them

.by the Egyptian scribes. Those

opposite the upper line consist of
baskets of dried fruits, gold rings,
and two obelisks.

0n the second line are ingots and
rings of silver, gold and silver vases
of very elegant form, and several
heads of animals of the same metals.

On the third are ostrich eggs
and feathers, ebony, precious stones
and rings of gold, an ape, several
silver cups, ivory, leOpard skins,
ingots and rings of gold, scaled
bags of precious stones, and other
objects; and on the fourth line are
gold and silver rings, vases of the
same metal, and of porcelain, with
rare woods and various other rich
presents.

The inner chamber contains sub-
jects of the most interesting and
diversified kind. Among them, on
the left(entering), are cabinet-makers,
carpenters, rope-makers, and sculp-
tors, some of whom are engaged in
levelling and squaring a stone, and
others in ﬁnishing a sphinx, with two
colossal statues of the king. The
whole process of brick-making is also
introduced. Their bricks were made
with a simple mould ; the stamp (for
they bore the name of a king, or of
some high-priest) was not on the
pallet, but was apparently impressed
on the upper surface previous to their
drying. But they do not seem to
have used pressure while exposing
them to the sun, as I had supposed,
from the compact nature of Egyptian
crude-bricks, several of which I have
found as ﬁrm as when ﬁrst made,
bearing the name of Thothmes 11L,

