 

156

the head of lawsuit, are settled at the
arms. or Cadi’s Court.

e e. rue usunatsn, oa csm's
couar.

This mighty court, looked upon
with fear and respect by some, and
contempt and disgust by others, occu-
pies a portion of the old palace of the
Sultans, which succeeded to one of
the Easrsfn or “ two palaces," built
by Géher el 1353:}, the founder of
Cairo; and close to it is still shown
a ﬁne vaulted chamber, once part of
the abode of Saladin. This last, as
well as its adjoining companion, is
now a ruin, and occupied by mills; its
lar a pointed arches have lost all
their ornaments except the Arabic
inscriptions at the projection of their
horse-shoe base; and the devices of
its once richly-gilded ceiling can
scarcely be distinguished. At the
end is a lofty main-ab, or arabesque
niche for prayer, similar to those in
the masks, which are sometimes ad-
mitted into large houses for the same
purpose.

The crowded state of the Mahltemeh
sufﬁciently shows how fund the
Cairenes are of litigation, every petty
grievance or family quarrel being
referred to the Cadi’s Court. Cases
of a very serious nature are settled by
the Cadi himself; others of more or-
dinary occurrence, but still of due
importance to the parties, are decided
by his qﬁ'endee, and conﬁrmed by the
seal of the Cadi ( Edd“); and those of
little weight are often arranged by the
hitch (hodtuba), clerks or s'cribes,
without any application to either. The
personages who hold ofﬁce here are
the Cadi, his eﬂ'endee, his ltéhia, the
bash-kiteb, or “ head scribe," and
the 30617450, or clerks. The minor
ofﬁcers are roossul or messengers, the
ltéhia's dragoman (called e1 rndiadur),
the mehéndes or architect, and the
hosluif for the inspection of houses.
There are also scribes who enter cases
into the deﬂa- or sigﬂ, of the record
omce, The boy: e! ml, or “ property

CAIRO. —- INTERNAL ADMINISTRATION.

 

Sect.II.

house,” is a separate court for all pro-
perty left without an heir, and may be
called the Court of Chancery.

The Cadi is appointed by the Sultan,
and is sent from Constantinople.

It is bad enough in any country to
be occupied in lawsuits; but nowhere
does a poor ‘man ﬁnd so much dif-
ﬁculty in obtaining justice as in Egypt.
He is not only put off from day to
day, but obliged to run from one per-
son to another, to no purpose, for days,
weeks, or months; and unless he can
manage to collect sufﬁcient to bribe
the bash-latch and other employés of
the court, he may hepe in vain to ob-
tain justice, or even attention to his
complaints.

The fees of the Csdi are four-
ﬁfths of all that is paid for cases at
the court, the remaining ﬁfth going
to the bash-hatch and other scribes
under him. The division is made
every Thursday.

When a case is brought up for de-
cision, the documents relating to it,
after having passed through the hands
of a scribe, are examined by the
effendee, and being settled by him,
the ltehia decides on and demands
the fee. This he does whether sealed
by the Cadi, or only by his effendee.

Minor cases, as disputes between
husband and wife, if the parties can-
not be reconciled below in the ball,
by the advice of a “tab, are taken up
to the eﬂ‘endee. When settled in the
hall, a small fee is demanded for the
charitable intervention of the scribe;
which is his perquisite, for not trou-
bling his superiors with a small case.
Decisions respecting murder, robbery,
the preperty of rich individuals, and
other important matters, are pro-
nounced by the Cadi himself. In
cases of murder, or wounding or
maiming, if the friends of the deceased
or the injured party consent to an
adjustment, certain ﬁnes are paid by
ivay of requital. These are tired by
law, regulated however by the quality
of the persons. Ransom for murder
(déé'lt el Katee!) is rated at 50 purses

