 

300

south of Antino'é, by the modern
village of Aboo Honnes.

Little now remains of Antino’é ex-
cept the theatre near the southern
gate, some substructions, and the
Hippodrome without the walls on
the east side. But the directions of
the principal streets may still be
traced, one of which extended nearly
in a direct line from the theatre to the
northward, for a distance of about
3000 feet. At the southern extremity
of this long line rose a handsome
stone gateway, with two side en-
trances, which, like those two in the
other street, had rather the character
of a triumphal or ornamental monu-
ment. This gateway probably led to
the porticoes before the stage en-
trance and postscenium, of the theatre ;
and the street, taking the form of a
crescent, turned thence round the aide
of the theatre to the southern gate of
the town, which was a short distance
behind. A line of columns ranged
on either side of the street, throughout
its whole length, with intercolumnia—
tions of from 8 to 9 feet in breadth,
supported a covered corridor, for the
convenience of those on foot; and at
the northern extremity of this line
(where it turned oii‘ to the N. W.)
were four columns with an inscription
to “ Good Fortune " on two of the
pedestals, bearing the date of the
fourteenth year of Marcus Aurelius
Severus Alexander.

The projecting volutes of their
capitals obtained for them the name
Aboo‘l-Igeroén (“ father of horns ").
They stood alone, but neither on a
line with each other, nor facing the
street, which here made a bend to the
N. W.

The vestiges of several grand edi-
ﬁces may also be traced in the street
which crosses this one at right angles,
and runs through the centre of the
town, from the river to the eastern
gate. it had a similar colonnade on
either side for foot passengers, which,
by its cool shade, must have added
greatly to the comfort both of those

non-rs 22.—ufman 'ro OBIOOT.

 

Sect. III.

in the street and in the houses; and
it is evident, from the remains of gra-
nite columns, and from the substruc-
tions of many large buildings, that
Antioo'e’ was embellished with all the
taste and magniﬁcence that the fancy
of an Adrian could so Near
the last-mentioned street, on the east
side of the city, was a large ediﬁce,
apparently a temple, ornamented with
pilasters and granite columns, two of
which I saw in their original position
in 1822. The numerous columns at
the sides of the main streets were then
standing, some with their capitals en-
tire, as well as the columns of Marcus
Aurelius, the eastern gateway, and
that before the theatre. The pave-
ment could also be seen, and fra -
ments of cornices and various moul -
ings were scattered about amidst these
extensive ruins; but on my return to
Antino'é, towards the end of the same
year, these interesting relics had dis-
appeared; every calcareous block had
been burnt for lime, or been taken
away to build a bridge at Reramoén.
Had they been of granite or hard
stone, they might have escaped this
Vandalism of the Turks; but they
were unfortunately of the nummulite
stone of the African hills; and a simi-
lar fate has befallen nearly all the
limestone monuments of Egypt.

The large gateway, the western en-
trance of the city, mentioned by Mr.
Hamilton, had nearly all disappeared
in the beginning of 1822, though some
of the granite columns in the avenue
leading to it from the river may still
be seen, as well as the cistern within
the gate. In going eastward from
this, you come to a quadrivium, the
intersection of the two main streets,
where 4 columns once stood, which had
fallen before Mr. Hamilton visited the
place; and towards the other extre-
mity of this street was the correspond-
ing arch, or eastern gateway. The
other street, that runs north and south,
crosses it at right angles; and about
one-third of the way from the quadri-
vium to the theatre, is cut through by

