 

tam

point where it ﬁrst diverges from the
valley of the Nile may be ﬁxed near
elHa'id,2milestotheN. Eofthat
town. After continuing from Bei-
b‘ys in a direction nearly due east,
85 miles, as far as Shekh Han‘ydig,
it curves to the southward, and runs
by the bitter lakes to the RedSea;
its ancient course being easily traced
here and there, between Tel el Wadee
and Shehh Hanﬁydit, though nearly
ﬁlled with sand. It may also be seen
towards the Sues end, for a consider-
able distance, in the direction of the
bitter lakes; and a little to the north
of that town, just below the mound of
Kolsim, are the remains of masonry
which appear to have been connected
with its exit into the sea, and the
sluices which closed this month. Here
is a channel cut in the rock, corre-
sponding tothe direction of themounds
of the old canal, of which it doubtless
formed a part; and a stone wall has
been thrown across the arm of the sea
that runs up at the side. The ford is
some distance to the N. N. E. of the
stone wall.

Several mounds mark the sites of
ancient towns upon its banks, the
largest of which is that called by the
French Abookeshayd, supposed by
some to be liemiipolis, or, according
to M. Champollion, the Avaris of the
shepherd-kings. This, however, is
not very probable.

The name of Aboolteshayd is not
known to the Arabs, and the place is
called by them e' S‘gheea, “ the water
wheel." This is the only place where
any sculptured remains are found.
They consist of a block of granite of
the time of Remeses ll., the supposed
Sesostris. ornamented with three sit.
ting ﬁgures in high relief, represent-
ing Re, Atmoo, and the king.

“ This canal,“ says Strabo, “ was ﬁrst
cut by Sesostris, before the Trojan
war.” Some say it was begun by
New, or rather Psamaticus l ., who
desisted from the undertaking on
being warned by an oracle that he was
labouring for the Barbarians. De-

nou'rs 7. —os1uL or wanton.

 

 

211

rius, the son of Hystaspes, continued
it; but having, according to the same
account, been left unﬁnished. Pto-
lemy Philadelphus completed it, and
made sluices to regulate the quantity
of water, while they permitted the
passage of vessels. They had also for
their object the exclusion of the salt
water; and so effectually was this
done, that the bitter lakes were ren-
dered perfectly sweet, and abounded
with Nile ﬁsh and the usual water-
fowl of Egy t.

Pliny an Aristotle also mention
Scaostris as the originator of this
work. The former says it was com-
menced by him, continued by Darius
and Ptolemy (Philadelphus) to the
bitter springs (lakes), and abandoned
for fear of the greater hei t of the
Red Sea; to which Di and
others attribute its non-completion by
Darius. According to Herodotus, it
was “ four days‘ voyage in length,
and suﬁciently bread for two trim
to row abreast;” or, according to'
Strabo, 100 cubits(150 feet). “The
water was derived horn the Nile.
which entered it a little above llu-
bastis, and it entered the Red Sea
near to Pntumos, a town of Arabia. "
it was here that Ptolemy founded
Arsinoii, which Strabo says was also
called Cleopatris, though he shortly
alter appears to consider them two
distinct towns.

With regard to lieroiipolis, if Pliny
and Strabo are right in placing it on
the lph; it may be the same as Pi-
Hahn-0th (h'l‘l'l-‘l ‘3), where the is-
raelites encamped near the see, and the
name of the iieroiipolitea Sinus might
be adduced in favour of this opinion.
Nor would it be diﬂcult to trace the
name in that given by the Hebrews;
the Pi being the Egyptian article
"the," and the hand th at the be-
ginning and end being Hebrew addi-
tions, which leave the real word Him,
or Hero. But this isan etymological
fancy, on which 1 by no means insist.

in the time of the Romans. the
canalwasstill used for thepurposes

