 

368

era; who mention them in inscrip-
tions written on their walls, as the
syringes (cums) or tunnels—a
name by which they are described
by Pausanias; and Diodorus, who,
on the authority of the priests, reclt-
ons forty-seven, says that seventeen
remained in the time of Ptolemy La-
gus. From this we may infer that
seventeen were then open, and that
the remaining thirty were closed in his
time. Strabo too supposes their total
number to have been about forty.

A small chamber and two niches
are perforated in the north-west wall
of this part of the grand hall ; and at
the upper end a step leads to an un-
ﬁnished chamber, 17 feet by 43, sup-
ported by a row of four pillars. On
the south-west are other niches, and
a room about 95 feet square, orna-
mented with two pillars and a broad
bench (hewn, like the rest of the
tomb, in the melt) around three of
its sides, four feet high, with four
shallow recesses on each face, and
surmounted by an elegant Egyptian
cornice. It is difﬁcult to understand
the purport of it, unless its level sum-
mit served as a repository for the
mummies of the inferior persons of
the kings household ; but it is more
probable that these were also deposited
in pits.

The total horizontal length of this
catacomb is 320 feet, without the in-
clined descent below the sarcophagus,
and its perpendicular depth 90. But,
including that part, it measures in
depth about 180 feet, to the spot where
it is closed by the fallen rock.

I shall now notice the sculptures.
Those in the ﬁrst passage consist of
lines of hieroglyphics relating to the
king Osirei, " the beloved of Pthah,"
who was the father of Remeses II.
and the occupant of the tomb. In
the staircase which succeeds it, are on
one side thirty-seven, on the other
thirty-nine genii of various forms;
among which a ﬁgure represented
with a stream of tears issuing from
his eyes, is remarkable from having

THEEES. “-TOHBB OF THE KINGS.

 

SectIV.

the (Coptic) word riasi, “lamentap
tion,” in the hieroglyphics above.

Inthenextpassage are the boats
of Kneph ; and several descending
planes, on which arele thevalvea
of doors, probably referring to the
descent to Amenti. The goddess of
Truth or Justice stands at the lower
extremity. In the small chamber
over the pit, the king makes offerings
to diﬂ‘erent gods, Osiris being the
principal deity. Athor, Horus, Isis,
and Anubis, are also introduced.

On the pillars of the ﬁrst hall, the
monarch stands in the presence of
various divinities, who seem to be
receiving him after his death. But
one of the most interesting subjects
here is a procession of four diﬂ‘erent
people, of red, white, black, and again
white complexions, four by four, fol-
lowed by Ra, “ the sun." The four
red ﬁgures are Egyptians, designated
under the name rdt (9), “ mankind ;"
the next, a white race, with blue
eyes, long bushy boards, and clad in
a short dress, are a northern nation,
with whom the Egyptians were long
at war, and appear to signify the
nations of the north; as the blacks,
the“ south; and the four others, also
a white people, with a pointed beard,
blue eyes, feathers in their hair, and
crosses or other devices about their
persons, and dressed in long ﬂowing
robes, the east. These then are not
in the character of prisoners, but a
typiﬂcation of the four divisions of
the world, or the whole human race;
and are introduced among the sculp-
tures of these sepulchres in the same
abstract sense as the trades of the
Egyptians in the tombs of private in-
dividuals; the latter being an epitome
of human life, as far as regarded that
people themselves, the former refer-
ring to the inhabitants of the whole
world.

On the end wall of this hall is a
ﬁne group, which is remarkable as
well for the elegance of its drawing
as for the richness and preservation
of the colouring. The subject is the

