 

 

 

U. Egypt.

tion, and buried by the alluvial depo-
sit, in those parts which stood on the
cultivated land, the rocky and un-
inundated acclivity of the Myer would

atleast have retained some traces of
its former existence, even were it
need to the ground.

It Is not alone from the authority
of ancient writers that the splendour
and power of this city, which could
furnish 20,0(D armed chariots from
its vicinity, are to be estimated; but
the extent of the Egyptian conquests
adding continually to the riches of the
metropolis, the magniﬁcence of the
ediﬁces which adorned it, the have of
the individuals who inhabited it, the
spoil taken thence by the Persians,
and the gold and silver collected alter
the burning of the city, amply testify
the immense wealth of Egyptian
Thebes.

Diodorus seems to say, that the
above force was not all raised in the
vicinity of Thebes. But he commits
a great error in the number when he
computes the chariots at 90,0(1), and
reckons only 100 stables and 900
horses in each; which, allowing 2 to
each car, will only supply half the
number; and these stables he places
between Thebes and Memphis.

The ﬁrst step towards the decline
and fall of this city was. as we learn
from Diodorus, the preference given
to Memphis; and the removal of the
seat of government thither. and sub-
sequently to Sets and Alexandria,
proved as disastrous to the welfare, as
the Persian invasion to the splendour,
ofthe capital of Upper Egypt. Corn-
merciai wealth, on the accession of
the l’tolemies, began to ﬂow through
other channels; Captos and Apolli-
nopolis succeeded to the lucrative
trade of Arabia, and Ethiopia no
longer contributed to the revenues of
Thebes. And its subsequent destruc-
tion, after a 3 years‘ siege, by Ptolemy
Lathyrus, struck a death -blow to the
welfare and existence of this capital,
which was thencei'orth scarcely deem-
ed an Egyptian city. Borne few re-

DECLINE AND FALL OF emu.

1

 

839

rs were, however, made to its di-
pidated temples, by Eucrgetes 11.,
and some of the lat. Ptolemies; but
it remained depopulated, and at the
time of Strabo's visit it was already
divided into small detached villagn.

The principal partofthecity, pro-
perly so called, lay on the east bank, -
that on the opposite side, which con-
tained the quarter of the Memnonia
and the whole ot‘ its extensive Necro-
polis, bore the name of the Libyan
suhuth. It is not certain, whether
or no cultivated spots of land were
in early times admitted amidst the
houses, but it appears from the
sculpturesot' the tombs, that the prin-
cipal inhabitants had extensive gar.
dens attached to their mansions, in-
dependent of their villas and farms
outside the city; and in the reigns of
the Ptolemies, several parcels of land
were sold and let within the interior
of the Libyan suburb.

The most ancient remains now ex-
isting at Thebes are un uestionably
in the great temple of arnah,the
largest and most splendid ruin of
which perhaps either ancient or me-
dern times can boast, being the work
of a number of successive monarchs,
each anxious to surpass his predeces-
sor by increasing the dimensions and
pIOportions of the part he added. It
is this fact which enables us to ac-
count for the diminutive size of the
older parts of this extensive building.
And to their comparatively limited
scale. offering greater facility, as their
vicinity to the sanctuary greater
temptation, to an invading enemy to
destroy them, added to their remote
antiquity, are to be attributed their
dilapidated state, and the total dis-
appearance of the sculptures executed
during the reigns of the Pharaohs,
who preceded Osirtascn L, the con-
temporary of Joseph, and the earliest
monarch whose name exists on the
monuments of Thebes.

i cannot too otters repeat that, in
order to enjoy a visit to the ruins of
this city, Karnah, from being the

o 9

