 

mound-Ion. xxiii

Extra furniture may be bad, if required, at the following prices
during the quarantine: —

s d.

Foralargemat - - 3 0
asofa - - 5 0
aneasychir- - 9 6
ascrecn «- - 3 0

Passengers are to pay for any article of furniture missing, torn,
or in any manner damaged or destroyed.

If travellers happen to have any furniture with them, they can
easily dispose of it, when they leave the laaaretto, or send it by sea
to England; and those who have carried a canteen, cooking things,
and table services on their journey, may as well use them in
quarantine.

There are two lasarettos at Malta. That of Fort Manoel is by
far the most comfortable.

The rooms in the lasaretto of Malta are not large, but they are
suﬂciently so for one person, and they have the comfort of ﬁre-
places, which, in winter, is a very great point. They are given
gratis, and not as at the Pimus, with the exorbitant charge of 5:. a
day, as if the punishment of imprisonment were not sumcient; for
Quarantine has been justly deﬁned “ imprisonment, with the
chance of catching the plague."

There is one thing very deﬁcient at Malta, the means of trans-
porting luggage from the beach to the laxaretto, which might be
easily improved, and calls loudly for the attention of all who have
the direction of these matters. A traveller who has no servant ﬁnds
himself onlthe beach without any one to move his things: even if
the sailors are willing to take them to his room, he must wait a long
time, until the boat has landed the whole luggage. Each box has
to be carried some distance; and if he is the last served, he may
have to wait several hours before all his things are removed from
the rhore to the laxaretto.

Every one on entering the lazaretto is obliged to unpack all his
things, and put them out on wooden horses, during the whole time
of his stay, the last three days excepted, which are allowed for pack-
ing up; and his quarantine does not begin to count until they have
been so exposed. All sealed letters or packages must also be opened,
unless he chooses to give up the former, and have them forwarded,
after proper fumigation, by the post. Any thing may be sent for
from the town, but nothing can be returned, unless it can pass unin-
Jured through the process of fumigation. The guardians are

