 

l68

they taught. were no longer to be
found, and no professor of any one
was pointed out to him. Those only
who had char of the temple, and
who explaine the sacred rites to
strangers, remained there; and among
other lions to interest the Greek
traveller, the houses where Eudoxus
and Plato had lived were shown,
these philosophers having, it is said,
remained thirteen years under the
tuition of the priests of HeliOpolis.
Indeed, it ceased to be the seat of
lesrnin after the secession of the
Ptolemtes, and the schools of Alex-
andria succeeded to the ancient col-
leges of that city.

The form of Heliopolis, judging
from the mounds of the wall of circuit,
was irregular, and its utmost extent
was only shout 8750 feet, by 9870.
The houses lay on the north side,
covering a space of 575,000 square
feet, to the south of which stood the
Temple of the Sun. Towards the
N. W. are remains of the sphinxes
above mentioned, and the positions of
its several gates may be traced in the
apertures of the mounds that cover
its crude brick walls. It was from
one of these that a large road led in
a S. E. direction, on the desert side,
to the Red Sea and a smaller one
crossed the hills of the Moltuttum,
in a southerly direction, passing near
the petriﬁed wood which has been
digniﬁed by the name of forest, and
rejoined the valley of the Nile near
the modern village of Toora, a little
below the ancient quarries of the Tro-
jan mountain. On a red granite frag-
ment, lying some distance from the
obelisk, are the name and mutilated
ﬁgure of the Great Remeses; and
Mr. Salt found a pedestal with a bull
and Osiris, about a quarter of a mile
to the eastward. The hull Mnevis
shared with Re or Phrs the worship
of this city, and was one of the most
noted among the sacred animals of
Egypt. it was kept in a particular
enclosure set apart for it, as for Apis
at Memphis, and enjoyed the same

onno. — nxcvnsrox 2.

 

Bacall

honour in the Heliopolite as the latter
did in the Memphite nome.

The name of the neighbouring vil.
lage Mataré'éh is en roneously supposed
to signify “fresh water,” and to be
borrowed from the Ain Shems(“ foun-
tain of the Sun”) of ancient times;
and though in reality supplied like
the other wells of Egypt by ﬁltration
from the river, it is reputed the only
real spring in the valley of the Nile.
That the word Magaré'éh cannot sig-
nify “ f I esh water,” is evident from the

M-tsré'e'h;
for the word Ma, “ water," should
be written Lg, and being masculine,

would nire the adjunct to be sores,
and this ast is not applied to water,
but to fruit. According to the Manic
of Palestrins, the “fountain of the
Sun," stood a short distance to the
right, or E. of the obelisks before the
temple.

The ancient Egyptian name of
Heliopolis was in hietoglyphics, Re-ei
or Ei- Re, “ the House," or “ abode
of the Sun," corresponding to the title
Bethshemes, of the same import, which
was applied to it by the Jews; and in
Scripture and in Coptic it is called
“ On.” The water of “ the fountain
of the Sun " is reported to have been
originally salt, until the arrival of
Jaseph and the Virgin, who converted
it into a sweet source, and who, having
reposed under a sycamore tree near
this spot, are said to have caused it to
ﬂourish to the present day. This
truly perennial tree is still shown to
strangers; and the credulous believe
it to be the very one that ail'orded shade
to the holy family: but neither a
respect for these last, nor the in-
credulity of sceptics, seem to have
exempted it from the name-cutting
manta.

The gardens of Mataré'e'h were for-
merly renowned for the balsam they
produced, and the ground close to the
obelisk claims the honour of having
been the spot where the cultivation of

form of the Arabic 4;

