 

16 uonnnmn ALI. Sect. I.

but the fact of Mohammed Ali's having proposed it was known to me be-
tween two and three months before any order came from Constantinople, in
the followin munch—Happening to be acquainted with a Turk in the
Pasha's con denee, and conversin with him on his probable intentions, I
remarked that many in Cairo tal ed loudly of his kind reception of the
Greeks, and supposed thathe was likely to join them in their rebellion against
the Porte. He then told me, that, so far were they from being right in their
surmises, the Pasha had sent to make the above proposition to the Sultan; and
in less than three months he added, “ You will see the permission arrive
as an order from the Porte to send an army into Greece.” The result proved
the truth of what he said; and accordingly, in 1824, a ﬂeet and army were
sent, under Ibrahim Pasha, to the Morea.

The results of this campaign, the intervention of the European powers in
July, and the battle of Navarino, October 90th, 1897, are well known.
Candie not having been included in the independence of Greece, was per-
mitted to be retained by the Ports, and Mohammed Ali, who had overthrown
the revolted Greeks there, was afterwards allowed the complimentary distinc-
tion of appointing a pasha to that island, in lieu of obtaining the pashalic of
Syria, which he had solicited.

The Egyptian troops having been taken back to Egypt, and his Greek
projects having failed, Mohammad Ali turned his thoughts to obtaining pos-
session of Syria by force: this and the Morea, as one of his courtiers ob-
served to me, “ being two doors that lead to.the same place”-— Constanti-
nople. For I need scarcely observe now, what I had so often mentioned to
English travellers whom I met in Egypt, while the war was going on in the
Mom, that the ultimate object of the Greek war was an attack on Constanti-
nople; though few would then believe that he had either the intention to
attempt so ambitious a project, or the means to oppose the (reputed) power
of the Ports.

There is little doubt that Sultan Mahmood, by his incessant animosity
against Mohammed Ali, and his repeated attempts to destroy him, paved the way,
in a great degree, for the success of his vassal's ambition; that the supineness
of European nations, in not preventing a collision between the Sultan and
the Pasha, led to the late unsettled state of Syria; and that their sub-
sequent interference was misplaced; but this subject is too long for discus-
sion at the present moment, and does not, of course, come within the scope
of this brief notice. Nor is it necessary to enter into the details of the Syrian
war, which are well known to every reader.

In contemplating the private character and political career of Mohammed
All, it is evident that, as an individual, he possesses many excellent qualities,
and is kind, indulgent, and humane ; while in his public capacity he must be
censured for ambition, for extorting money from the people, and for neg-
lecting to relieve them from the state of misery to which they have been
reduced by his expensive projects.

On the other hand, it may be said, that, considering all he has done, which
originated solely in his own energies, his endeavours to civilise the country
have been highly praiseworthy; and when we compare him to others of his
nation, his’superiority stands forth in a still more remarkable light. But
it is certain that his conduct may be presented under different aspects,
according to the views of his enemies or his friends; and this has led to the
great discrepancy in the character given of this extraordinary man. It may
be said that the various establishments set on foot in Egypt, the dykes, canals,
and other public works, are as much for the beneﬁt of the government, as for

