 

88

tium, where, like the misanthropic
Timon of Athens, he might shun the
world, and lead a life of perfect seclu-
sion. It was in going thence towards
the west, that you came to the COD.-
rium and Emporium, and the recesses;
beyond which were the docks, ex-
tending even to the Heptastadium.

The site of the ﬁrst of these I have
noticed. The market was probably
to the east of the obelisks; the ﬂaw-
at'aua, at the projecting point between
the obelisks and the small canal to the
north-east ; and the docks occupied
what is now the great square of the
Frank quarter, which stands on
ground reclaimed from the sea.

On the west side of the mole or
Heptastadium, was the port of En.
nostus, now celled the old harbour;
and an artiﬁcial one above it called
the Cibbtus, or basin (chest), with
its dOclts, doubtless occupied the spot
to the south-west of the modern Fort
Caﬁ‘arelli. Beyond this was the canal
leading to the Mareotic Lake. The
limits of the city extended a very
short distance farther to the west of
the canal, beyond which were the
suburbs and Necropolis, with many
gardens, occupying the space between
the modern canal and the catacombs.
Within the city, and on the eastern
side of the canal, stood several ancient
temples, most of which we: e neglected
in Strabo‘s time, in consequence of
the erection of others at Nicopolis.
There also was the Serapt'oa, or
Sea-opener, founded by Ptolemy Soter,
as reported by Plutarch and others,
for the reception of the statue of
Sarapis, a foreign deity, whose wor-
ship was introduced from Sinope.
It stood in that part of the city which
had formerly been occupied by Rha-
cotis, the predecessor of Alexandria,
and was embellished with such mag.
niﬁcence, that Ammianus Marcellinus
pronounces it unequalled by any
building’ in the world, except the
Capitol at Rome. It appears not
only to have contained the temple of
the deity, but to have consisted, like

ROUTE l. -— ALEXANDRIA - meanest.

 

Sect. I.

the museum, of several distinct parts.
as the library already mentioned, and
peristylar halls, adorned with beauti-
ful works of art.

Of the introduction of Sarapis into
Egypt, Plutarch gives the following
account: “ Ptolemy Soter had a
dream, in which a colossal statue,
such as he had never seen before,
appeared to him, commanding him
to remove it as soon as possible from
the place where it then stood, to
Alexandria. On awaking, the king
was in great perplexity, not knowing
where the statue was. Sosibius, how-
ever, who was a great traveller. de-
clared he had seen one answering its
description at Sinope. Soteles and
Dionysius were, therefore, sent thi-
ther, and with much difﬁculty suc—
ceeded in blinging the statue to
Egypt. Timotheus, the interpreter,
and Manetho the Sebennite, as soon
as it arrived, and was shown to them,
concluded, from the Cerberus and
dragon, that it represented Pluto, and
persuaded the king that it was no
other than Sarapis. For it was not so
called at Siuope; but, on its arrival
at Alexandria, it obtained the name
of Sarapis, which, with the Egyptians,
answers to Pluto. The observation
of Heraclitus, the physiologist, that
Hades (Pluto) and Bacchus are the
same, leads to a similar conclusion;
Osiris answering to Bacchus, as 8a-
rapis to Osiris, after he had changed
his nature; for Sarapis is a name
common to all, as those know who
are initiated into the mysteries of
Osiris. The opinion of such as pre-
tend that Sarapis is no God, but the
mere denomination of the scpulchral
chest, into which the body of Apia,
after death, is deposited, is perfectly
absurd. The priests, indeed, at least
the greatest part of them, tell us, that
Sarapis is no other than the mere
union of Osiris and Apis into one
word; declaring that Apis ought to
be regarded as a fair and beautiful
image of the soul of Osiris. For my
own part, I cannot but think that this

