 

bahle that the Sarapeumwasinthe
direction of 8ah__h_£ra, as we learn
ﬁemSuahqtltatit wasin a uvery
sandy spot," which could only be near
the deaett. Judging too, from the
iseof'l‘bebeanramay readily ima-
gine that Memphis extended as far as
the desert, to the westward; and
Diodes-us calculates its circuit at 150
stsdes, or upwards of 17 English
miles, requiring a diameter of nearly
6 milm. The Sarapeum, indeed, was
probably outside the circuit of the
city, if what Macrobins says be true,
thattbe temple of this deity was never
admitted within the precincts of an
Egyptian town ; and the distance from
the centre of Memphis, at Mitrahenny,
to the sandy slope of the desert, is far
from being too much for the sise of
such a city, even if we deduct consi-
derably from the dimensions given
by Diodorus. It probably extended
from near the river at Bedreshayn to
Snags... which only allows a breadth
east and west of 3 miles. and its long-
est diameter was probably north and
south. But it may be doubted, if
Memphis was surrounded by a wall.
It was not the custom of the Egyp-
tians to include the whole of a large
city within one circuit: Thebes, even
with its 100 gates, had no wall; and
we ﬁnd there, as in other cities, that
portions alone were walled round,
comprehending the temples and other
precious monuments. In places of
extent, as Thebes, each temple
its own circuit, generally a thick
crude brick wall with stone gate-ways,
sometimes within another of greater
extent; and the quarters of the troops,
or citadel, were surrounded by a mas-
site wall of the same materials, with
an inclined way to the top of the
rampart.

The temples of Memphis were, no
doubt, encompassed in the same man.
ner by a sacred enclosure; and the
“ white wall "‘ was the fortiﬁed part of
the city, in which the Egyptians took
refuge when defeated by the Persians
This white fortress was very ancient,

HEIIPHIB.

 

 

203

and from it Memphis was called the
“city of the white wall.”

Memphis was said to have been
built by Menes, the ﬁrst king of
Egypt; and the fact of his hari
changed the course of the river, whi
previously “ ﬂowed under the Libyan
mountains," and for which he opened
a new channel, about half-way be-
tween th'e Arabian and Libyan chain,
is strongly corroborated by the actual
appearance of the Nile. Accordin
to Herodotus, the river was turned og'
about 100 stadia above Memphis;
and the dykes constructed at this
point, to prevent its returning to its
original channel, were ltept up with
great care by his successors, even to
the time of the Persians. At Kafr
el Iyit, 14 miles above Mitrahenny,
the Nile takes a considerable curve
to the eastward, and would, if the
previous direction of its course con-
tinued, run immediately below the
Libyan mountains to Sakksra; and
the slight difference between this dis-
tance and the approximate measure-
ment of Herodotus offers no objec-
tion. Indeed, if we calculate from
the outside of the town, which the
historian doubtless did, we shall ﬁnd
that the bend of Kafr el lyet agrees
exactly with his 100 stadia, or about
11‘ miles, Mitrahenny being, as before
stated, at the centre of Memphis.

The canal that now runs between
Saltltsra and Mitrahenny, and con.
nail; thence through the $3M”
the rest ramids, has [1 ysuc-
ceedged topa’n ancient one that passed
through Memphis, and brought the
water of the Nile to the famous lake,
which was “ on the north and nest
of the city.” This hit. was excavated
by Menes. Herodotus says it was
made on the north and west side, and
not on the east, because the river was
in the way; showing that Memphts
stood near the Nile; as is further
proved by his account of the herald
sent from Cambyses by water to that

I.
c.a'hesltaofthelahelbelieveto he
a O

