 

158
St. George, the patron saint of the
Copts.

in an upper chamber, over the W.
tower of the old gateway above men-
tioned, is an ear y Christian record,
sculptured on wood, of the time of
Diocletian, curious as well from its
style as from the state of its preser-
vation. The upper part, or friese, has
a Greek inscription; and below it, at
the centre of the architrave, is s re-
presentation of the Deity, sitting in a
globe, supported by two winged an-
gels; on either side of which is a pro-
cession of six ﬁgures, evidently the
twelve apostles. The central group
readily calls to mind the winged globe
of the ancient Egyptians; and its po-
sition over a doorway accords with the
ordinary place of that well-known
emblem. Indeed, this is not the only
instance of the adoption of old devices
by the early Egyptian Christians; the
tan, or sign of life, was commonly
used to head their inscriptions, instead
of the cross; and it is not improbable
that the disc or globe of the gods
gave rise to the glory over the heads
of saints; who were frequently
painted on a coat of stucco, that
alone separated them from the deities
to whose temples they succeeded.
Nor were the Christians of Egypt
singular in the admission of emblems,
borrowed from their Pagan predeces-
sors; another religion, equally averse
to the superstitions of antiquity, has
been unable to prevent their adoption,
even at a much later period; and the
serpent of Sheth Hereedee still claims
the respect, if not the worship, of the
Egyptian Moslem. We may, there-
fore, readily believe that in the time
of Origen, it was rare to meet with
an Egyptian who had surmounted
his early prejudices in favour of the
sacred animals of his country.

Besides the Coptic community, is
a Greek convent, within the precincts
of this ancient fortress, and numerous
Moslems have opened shops in its
narrow streets, living in perfect har-
mony with their religious adversaries.

CAIRO. —- executor: l.

 

SocLII.

Among other objects shown by the
priests of the Greek convent, is the
chamber of the Virgin, the traditions
concerning which are treated by the
credulous with the same pious feel-
ings as the tree and fountain of He»
liopolis. Here it was, in the garden of
the Greek convent, that these English
who died in Cairo were permitted to
be buried; their tombs being hired,
rather than bought, from the priests;
who, ﬁnding that more money and
room were to be obtained by remov-
ing the bones, were not long in pre-
paring the same spots for other oc-
cupants. There is reason therefore
to rejoice that a subscription for an
English burial-ground is now opened;
and though donations are much
wanted, we may hope that in a short
time it will no longer be necessary to
borrow tombs from the monks of Old
Cairo.

Two other convents stand to the
N.; one between this and the mosh
of Amer, which is occupied by Ca-
tholic Armenians and Syrian Maro-
nites ; the other to the N. of the mask,
belonging to the Copts.

Strabo mentions the station or for-
tress at Babylon, “ in which one of
the three lloman legions was quar-
tered, which formed the garrison of
Egypt." This Babylon he describes
as a castle fortiﬁed by nature, founded
by some Babylonians, who, having
left their countryhobtained from the
Egyptian kings a dwelling-place in
this spot. His statement, however,
of its being fortiﬁed by nature, scarcely
agrees with the Kasr e’ Shemmn. un-
less (which is very possible) the
mounds of rubbish have raised the soil
about it, and concealed its once ele-
vated base; though the ridge of hill
it occupied by the river, where hy-
draulic machines raised the Nile
water for its supply, seems to accord
with the description of its site given
by Arab writers, who state, that when
taken by the Saracens the river ﬂowed
near its walls. At all events, it is
evidently a Roman station, and pro-

