 

6 moon or LIVING IN mm. Sect. 1.

may be added Burclthardt, Iaaborde’s Petra, Ptolemy, Strabo, and Pliny;
but of these three last, as well as Diodorus, extracts will sumce, if consi-
dered too voluminous. (Of the libraries in Egypt see Sect. 9.) '

c. HOD! 0' LIVING IN xerrr, AND nssxam 0? '1'!!! COUNTIY.

In winter, it is unnecessary to make any change in the mode of living
from that usually adopted in Europe; and most persons, unless they commit
excesses, may eat whatever they are accustomed to in other countries. In
the summer months it is. however, better to avoid much wine or spirits, as
they tend to heat the blood; and cause the hot weather to be more sensibly
felt; and some (though I may say, very few) will ﬁnd that ﬁsh (chieﬂy
those without scales), eggs, and unboiled milk, do not always agree with
them. Bathing in the Nile is by no means prejudicial in the morning and
evening; and, except in the neighbourhood of sandbanhs, there is no fear of
crocodiles. Fruit and vegetables are wholesome and cooling, and mutton is
better than beef. The ﬁsh of the Nile are not very good; the booltee and
gisber are perhaps the best.

The diseases of Egypt are few. Fevers are very rare, except about Alex-
andria, Damietta, and other places on the coast; and almost the only com-
plaints, to which strangers are subject in the interior, are diarrhea, dysentery,
and ophthalmia. The following is a ood mode of treatment for diarrhoea,
or even for the be 'nning of suspectetf dysentery. First take an emetic of
ipecacuanha, and in the morning a mild aperient, as 15 grl. 0f rhubarb with
2 grs. of calomel; on the following day, 2 grs. of ipecacuanlta with { gr. of
opium morning and evening, nothing being eaten but boiled rice, sweetened
with white sugar. But if this does not stop the complaint, and tenesmus
gives the well-known sign of decided dysentery, a dose of 20 grs. of calomel
with gr. of Opium, should be taken, which must be followed next morning
by a ass of castor oil. This generally cuts the matter short; but it is as
well to follow it up with 9 grs. of ipecscuanha and i g. of opium three or
four times within the 19 or 24 hours, for two or three ya after. In severe
cases, an injection of nitrate of silver (caustic) has been ernployed with great
success; but this can only be done under medical advice.

For ophthalmia, in the first stage, mix 10 grs. of sulphate of zinc in l as.
of distilled or rose-water. and put one or two drops into the eye, reducing the
strength for succeeding applications. In the purulent stage, mix 7 grs. of
sulphate of copper, or blue vitriol, in l as. of rose-water, an drop it into the
eye once a day. Fiﬁeen grs. of sulphate of zinc may even be put into I os.
of rose-water. and one or two drops be put into the eye; and I have been
recommended by an eminent practitioner to use 7 grs. of nitrate of silver to
l as. of rose-water in the same manner.

In slight inﬂammation, a wash of 9 grs. of sulphate of copper to l as. of
rose-water may be frequently used. Warm water will often remove an irri-
tation which if neglected often ends in ophthalmia; and spirits of wine
will generally have the same effect, particularly if the hand he held over the
eye to cause an external heat; the eye being. of course, kept closed to prevent
the spirit entering it. Steaming the eye over boiling water is also highly
beneﬁcial; or bathing itin a decoction of poppy-heads. '

The cause of ophthalmia has frequently been assigned to the sand of the
desert; but, in order to show the error of this conjecture, I need only
observe, that ophthalmia is unknown there, unless taken from the Nile; and
I have always cured myself and others, after two or three days, by a visit to
the interior of this dry tract. I do not, however, mean to afﬁrm that sand

