 

342

neously called the Mmaoas'ara. There 1

is, however, reason to suppose that it
was the Memnonium of Strabo, and
that the title of Miamun, attached to
the name of Remeses 11., being
corrupted by the Greeks into Mem-
non, became the origin of the word
Memnonium or Memnonia, since we
ﬁnd it again applied to the buildings
at Abydus, which were ﬁnished by
the same monarch. Strabo, who
says that if lsmandes is the same as
Memnon, these monuments at Thebes
should have the same title of Memno-
nian as those at Abydus, appears to
have had in view the palace-temple
of Remeses Miamun ; and it was not
till after Strabo’s time that the name
of Memnon was applied to the vocal
statue of the plain. In short, I feel
persuaded, lst, that the word Mia-
mun led them to imagine him the
Memnon mentioned by Homer, and
thence to apply the word Memnonian
to the buildings erected by Rernescs
IL; 2dly, that later visitors to
Thebes, struck with the miraculous
powers of the vocal statue, transferred
the name of the only monarch with
whom they supposed themselves ac-
quainted, to the object they admired;
and 3diy, that they ascribed to Mem-
non the tomb of Remeses V. in like
manner from his having the title of
Amunmai or Miamun.

Another curious circumstance con-
nected with the name Memnonium is
the belief that this, and other monu-
ments so called, had been built or
ﬁnished by the Ethiopians, and this
may be used as an additional argu-
ment in favour of the opinion that
the name Ethiopia was sometimes
applied to the Theba'id.

2. uansoruuss oa amnaun.

For symmetry of architecture and
elegance of sculpture, there is no doubt
that the Memnonium may vie with any
other monument of Egyptian art.
No traces are visible of the dromos
that probably existed before the pyra-
midal towers, which form the facade

DESCRIPTION OF THERES.

 

Sect. IV.

of its ﬁrst area,-a court whose
breadth of 180 feet. exceeding the
length by nearly thirteen yards, was
reduced to a more just proportion-
by the introduction of a double avenue
of columns on either side, extending
from the towers to the north wall.
In this area, on the right of a ﬂight
of steps leading to the next court, was
a stupendous Syenite statue of the
king, seated on a throne, in the usual
attitude of Egyptian ﬁgures, the hands
resting on his knees, indicative of
that tranquillity which he had re-
turned to enjoy in Egypt after the
fatigues of victory. But the fury of
an invader has levelled this monument
of Egyptian grandeur, whose colossal
fragments lie scattered round the pe-
destal ; and its shivered throne evinces
the force used for its destruction.

If it is a matter of surprise how
the Egyptians could transport and
erect a mass of such dimensions, the
means employed for its ruin are
scarcely less wonderful; nor should
we hesitate to account for the shattered
appearance of the lower part by at-
tributing it to the explosive force
of powder, had that composition been
known at the period of its destruction.
The throne and legs are completely
destroyed, and reduced to compara-
tively small fragments, while the
upper part, broken at the waist, is
merely thrown back upon the ground,
and lies in that position which was
the consequence of its fall; nor are
there any marks of the wedge or
other instrument, which should have
been employed for reducing those
fragments to the state in which they
now appear. The ﬁssures seen across
the head and in the pedestal, are the
work of a later period, when some of
the pieces were cut for millstones by
the Arabs, but its previous overthrow
is probably coiival with the Persian
invasion. To say that this is the
largest statue in Egypt will convey
no idea of the gigantic size or enor-
mous weight of a mass, which, from

L an approximate calculation, exceeded,

