 

 

Aw.

community are divided amongst its ‘
members. One is the baker, another
the miller, and another the cook; one
hm the careof the church, another of
the dresses 3 in short. every department
is in the hands of a responsible per-
Ioo,—one of the brethren.—aud no
susnge servant is admitted within the
walls. have stores suﬁcient to
hit for a length of time, which they
take care to replenish long before they
are too much diminished; and every at-
tention is paid to these measures which
mderthem independent of the Arabs,
and capable of at least passive defence.

The great church is ornamented in
the manner of similar buildings of
early Christian times. It has a double
row of Corinthian columns, and on
the dome over the altar is represented
the cruciﬁxion in mosaic, of the By-
aantine style, with portraits of Joe.
tinian and the Empress Theodore.
The screen separating the alter from
the nave is elaborately worked, end
rich with gilding : a large cross towers
above all, rising nearly to the roof,
end the altar is resplendent with
chalices, candlestichs, end other orna-
ments. Numerous handsome silver
[ornps are suspended from different
parts of the ceiling. and many hot!
pictures of saints ornament or dis-
ﬁgure the walls. “ The exterior of
the church," says Mr. Kinneer, “is
without any architectural beauty ; but
one little circumstance struck me as
Very interesting. This was, several
shields end coats of arms rudely en-
graved on the stone, on each side of
the entrance; memorials, no doubt.
of the chivalry oi' the Crusades. and
perhaps scratched with the daggers of
some knightly pilgrims.“

The most sacred spot within this
building is the chapel oi the Burning
Bush. “ We descends-d a few steps,"
says the some traveller, “from the
interior of the church to a low door.
where we were required to tahe «if
our shots. before entering this sanc-
tum senctorutn of the tennis, who
displayed a great deal more fun and

none: 8. — com-r u nouns mm.

 

219

ceremony about admitting us, than
reverence after we were in. It is a
smell circular chepel under a dome,
lighted by two or three lamps, end
containing nothing worth of note,
except two very beautiful i luminated
MSS. of the gospels, which were lying
on the altar.” This Bush is a sort of
brier.

They also “show the silver lid of a
sarcophagus representing a full-length
ﬁgure of the Empress Ann of Russia,
who, it seems, intended to be buried
there ; end another, said to contain the
bones of St. Catherine, which were
found in the neighbouring mountain;
whither, according to the monkisb
legend, her body was conveyed by
angels. The spot Is still marked by a
small chapel, or but, which covers a
bed hollowed out of the rock, where
the bones lay, and is looked upon
with great respect by the credulous.
in the library ofthe convent area few'
printed hoolts, and some Greek, Are-
blc, and other M88.

The consent is said to have been
founded by the Emperor Justinian;
but l'ococke observes that St. Helena.
the mother of Constantine, appears to
have been the ilrst to lay the founda-
tion of it, in the tower she built, pro-
bably for herself and the monks.
when she went to Mount Sinai. This
ton er is in the middle of the convent,
where the archbishop lives, and is
called after the netne of the empress.

'lhere are several small chapels in
the neighbourhood, and the ruins of
other convents, which are among the
objects visited by strangers, but pos-
sess no interest beyond that given by
local tradition.

Borne pom people, styling them-
selves (icbelé'e'h, “mountaineers," live
in the vicinity of the convent. They
are said, by Bttrckhatdt, to be de-
scended from a few slaves, originally
Christians, from the shores of the
Bloch 8es,who were sent by Justinian
as menial servantstothepriests. They
are dependent for their food on the
monks, in the same manner as those

I. 8

