 

xxii INTRODUCTION.

When four or ﬁve persons club together, the restaurateur will
make an arrangement to provide dinner and breakfast at a lower
rate, and charge only 3:. 8d. each person for the two; giving soup,
ﬁsh, 2 entrées, l roast, 2 dishes of vegetables, 2 of fruit and bread,
and the same breakfast as in No. 1.; suﬁcient remaining from the
dinner for three servants. Wine and all other extras had better be
sent for from the town.

Those who have their batterie de cuisine, a good cook, and other
requisites, may ﬁnd it more comfortable to cook at home; and a
spenditore, or caterer, will supply every thing required from
Valetta. This would be far preferable for those who wish to dine
late ; as it is with great diﬁculty that the restaurateur can be pre-
vailed upon to give dinner as late as 5 o'clock, his hour being
usually 4.

The next point is the furniture of the rooms. The government
allow for each person a table, two chairs, a bedstead, and wooden
horses for airing his things, gratis ; and the only payment is 1s. 3d.
a day for the guardian, and 7d. for his living. The upholsterer‘s
low charges for hired furniture show how unnecessary it is to be en-
cumbered with any of the articles mentioned there. But. I should
not recommend a traveller to abstain from carrying with him what-
ever he may want for his journey, from any dread of the trouble of
putting it out on the horses, on which all his things must be aired
during his stay in the lazaretto. The bedstead furnished by govern-
ment is frequently made into a sort of divan, or given to a servant,
and an iron bedstead with mosquito curtains is hired with the other
things mentioned in the following list: -—

J. Antony and Lewis Garcia, Brothers, supply articles of furni-o
ture to passengers at the lazaretto and Fort Manuel, at the following
rates : —

d.
Iron bedstead with mosquito curtain - 2; per day.
A mattress and two pillows - - 8
A palisss - - - - - - 0*
A pair of sheets . - - . 1
A pair of pillow cases - - - O}
Coverlids, each - - - - 0;
Small mat, bed-side table, &c. - - O}
Wash-hand table complete, and tub - l
Dressing table and looking glass - 0L

N.B. Passengers taking the whole set of furniture will only pay 801.
a day.

