 

186

were taken, which appears to me the
least liable to error, and leave others
to decide on the spot respecting their
accuracy. This was done by ascend-
ing to one of the tiers, near the
entrance, and measuring in an un-
interrupted line, from one end of the
pyramid to the other, free from all
accumulation of sand or other in-
equalities; and then, by letting fall
an imaginary perpendicular to the
ground, and adding the base of the
small triangle at each corner (where
the casing stone rested in the rock),
the measurement of the whole si e
was determined.

For the heights I am indebted to
the angle given by Colonel Vyse,
which, with the half base, gives the
altitude much more accurately than by
any other measurement. The side,
then, 378 (the half of 756), with the
angle 51° 50’, requires a perpendi-
cular of 480-9, and deducting 20 feet
for the fallen apex, leaves 4609 for
the present height. The base of the
apex, 82 feet, by a similar calculation,
gives about 20 for its perpendicular,
and this deducted from the 480-9 is
preferable to any other calculation of
the present height. It is also evident
by the same process, that with the
base given by Colonel Vyse, the
angle 51° 50’ would require the per-
pendicular height when entire to be
486 feet, and at present, without the
apex of 20 feet, 466 feet.

We have seen, according to the
statement of Herodotus, that 100,000
men were employed in the construc-
tion of this pyramid, and in cutting
and transporting the stones from the
Arabian mountain, who were relieved
every three months by the same num-
ber; and besides the 90 years em-
ployed in erecting the pyramid itself,
ten more were occupied in construct-
ing the causeway, and a considerable
time in making the subterraneous
chambers, and in clearing and level-
ling the hill on which it stands. This
last may also include the nucleus
over which it is built. Herodotus

canto. — names 4.

 

SectII.

says the whole time employed in
building the 2 pyramids was 108
years, without stating how long the
third took for its completion; but
Pliny only gives 78 years and 4
months for the whole thus. '11:.
number of men employed about the
great pyramid he reckons at 880,000,
which is 40,000 less than the calcu-
lation of the historian, whose 100,000
every 8 months require a total of
400,000 men. The number of years
taken to complete this pyramid is
stated by the naturalist to have been
20; in which he agrees with Hero-
dotus, if the time occupied in clearing
the rock is not reckoned in that ac-
count; and it is reasonable to suppose
that the pyramid of Cheaps, and the
works connected with it, occupied
more time than that of his brother
Cephren, who found the causeways
both on the E. and W. sides of the
Nile already made. The total of 78
years for the three, given by Pliny,
therefore appears more consistent with
probability, than the 106 for the two
stated by Herodotus; 50 and 56
years being too much for two suc-
cessive reigns, notwithstanding the
long lives of many of the Egyptian
kings.

It would be curious to know the
means employed by the Egyptians
for raising the stones, and the exact
form of the machines mentioned by
Herodotus: the admirable skill with
which the passages and chambers are
constructed show the advancement of
that people in architectural know-
ledge, at the time of their erection,
and we are not a little surprised to
ﬁnd Diodorus assert that machinery
had not yet been invented.

8. SECOND PYRAMID.

The style of building in the second
pyrmaid is inferior to that of the ﬁrst,
and the stones used in its construction
were less carefully Selected, though
united with nearly the same kind of
cement. The lowest tier of stones
was of granite, but probably only the

