 

882

for it by the contempt and conscious—
ness of superiority they felt, in at-
tacking their enemy; those whom
deﬁcient in presence of mind being
frequently killed.

Mica—The crocodile is, in
fact, a timid animal, ﬂying on the
approach of man, and, generally
speaking, only venturing to attack its
prey on a sudden; for which mean
we seldom or never hear of persons
having been devoured by it, unless
incautiously standing at the brink of
the river, where its approach is con-
cealed by the water, and where, by
the immense power of its tail, it is
enabled to throw down and overcome
the strongest man; who being carried
immediately to the bottom of the
river, has neither the time nor the
means to resist; Pliny, like other
authors, has been led into a common
error, that the sight of the crocodile
is defective under water, which a
moment's consideration (without the
necessity of personal experience)
should have corrected; for it is at
least reasonable to suppose that an
animal living chieﬂy on ﬁsh should,
in order to secure its prey, be gifted
with an equal power of sight; and
that of ﬁsh cannot be said to be de-
fective. But Herodotus, “thefatha”
of these errors, afﬁrms that it is
totally t‘ blind under water." Its
small eye is defended by the nictitat-
ing membrane, which it passes over
it when under water. It has no
tongue, and moves the lower jaw like
other animals; though from its fre-
quently throwing up its head, at the
same time that it Opens its mouth, it
hambtained the credit of moving the
upper jaw. Another error respecting
it is its supposed inability to turn;
but alter ﬁnding that it can strike its
head with its tail, I recommend no
one to trust to this received notion.
It is however a heavy and unwieldy
animal; it cannot run very fast, and
is usually more inclined to run from,

than at, any man who has the courage'

to face it. In Egypt I never_heard of

some 24. -- omen 10 53mm.

 

SecLIII.

a person being carried away by a
crocodile while in the water; but in
Ethiopia it is much more daoguom;
and I should not advise any one to go
into the river from a sand-bank where
crocodiles abound, as at Omboa, and
some other places. There is little or
no danger in bathing under steep
banks, where the stream is rapid, or
in the vicinity of the cataracts.

The hatred of the Tentyrites for
the crocodile was the cause of serious
disputes with the inhabitants of
Ombos. where it was particularly
worshipped; and the unpardonable
affront of killing and eating the god-
Iike animal was resented by the
Ombites with all the rage of a secta-
rian feud. No religious war was ever
urged with more energetic seal; and
the conﬂict of the Ombites and Ten-
tyrites terminated in the ' l
ceremony of a cannibal fast, to which
(if we can believe the rather doubt-
ful authority of Juvenal) the body
of one, who was killed in the aﬁl-ay,
was doomed by his triumphant ad-
versaries.

Keneh. — Opposite the ruins of
Tehtyris is the town of Keaelt, the
residence of a provincial governor.
It stands on the site of Ccaopoh's, or
Neapolis, “ the new city " (the Nest:-
towa of those days), but boasts no re-
mains of antiquity. Eeneh has suc-
ceeded Coptos and lions, as the
emporium of trade with the Arabian
coast, which it supplies with corn,
carried by way of Kossayr to Emba
(Yambo) and Judda. It is noted
for its manufactbre of porous water-
jars and bottles, the former called in
Arabic Zecr, the latter goolle'lt( [(001130
and ddralt, which are in great request
throughout Egypt. The clay used
for making them is found to the
northward of the town, in the bed of
a valley, whose torrents have for ages
past contributed to the accumulation,
or rather deposit, of this useful earth;
which, with the sifted ashes of halfeh
grass in proper proportions, is the
principal composition. Keneh has

