 

36%
Hence.theyprekmdaandstonetoeal-

careoua hlocksJor theconstructionof

their tanples. a stone which, in the
dry climate of Eggreaistatheaction
of the atmosphere much longer than
either limestone or granite; but they
used calcareous abstractions, beneath
the soil, because they were known to
endure where the contact with the
alts would speedily decoupoae the
harder but le- durable granite.

The walls surrounding the court
ofthis temple present a peculiar style
afbuilding. the bricks being disputed
in concave and convex courses form-
ing a waving line, which risesand falls
alternately along their whole length.

Of the grottoea in the Emmet
(Goornat) Murraee I shall speak in
noticing the catacombs of The-bu.
(See No. 13 in this Section.)

10. earn st. saga“.

After passing the hill of Shckh
Ahd cl _l$oorneh, at the northern er.-
tremity of the Assaseéf, and imme-
diately helow the cliffs of the Libyan
mountain, is an ancient temple,
whose modern name, Dayt- e1 Belly-re,
or the “ northern convent.“ indicates
its having sewed, like most of the
temples at Thebes, as a church and
monastery of the early Christians.

An extensive dromos of 1600 feet,
terminated at the south-east by a
sculptured pylon, whose substructions
alone marlt its site, led in a direct line
between a double row of sandstone
aphinses to the entrance of its square
enclosure; before which two pedestals
still point out the existence of the
ohelisks they once supported. Follow.
ing the same line, and 200 feet to the
north-west of this gateway, is an in-
clined plane of masonry, leading to a
granite pylon in front of the inner
court; and about 150 feet from the
base of this ascent, a wall at right
angles with it extends on either side
to the distance of 100 feet, having
before it a peristyle of eight polygonal
columns, forming a covered corridor.

resets—mm n. aagaaa.

l

 

Sect. IV.

The inner face of this corridor,
which is the front of the ﬁrst tcarp
of a series of terraces, ia ornamented
with elegant and ﬁnished aculptnru.
0n the south-west aide, several regi-
ments of Egyptian soldiers, with
boughs in their hands, and b-ring
the weapons of their peculiar corps,
march to the celebration of a triumph,
to the sound of the trumpet and
drum. An 0: is sacriﬁced, and tablea
ofoﬂ’eringstothadeity of'l‘hehea
arelaidoutinthepreaeneeofthe
troops. The rest of the sculptures
aredestroyed,buttharemainsoftwo
boats prove thatthe upper compart-
mentswere ﬁnished with thesamecare
as those I have just mentioned.

0n the corresponding wall of the
north-east aide, two obelisks are de-
dicated to Amunre, by the monarch
who founded this building, and who
erected the great obeliska of Kamak;
but from the following translation of
the little that remains of their hiero-
glyphics, 'it is evident they diﬂ‘er
widely from those of the great tem-
ple of Diaspolis; and I suppose
them to have stood on the pedestals
of the (homes above alluded to.
The inscription, after the name of
Pharaoh Amunncitgori, continues :—
“ Site has made (this) her work for
her father Amunre, lord of the re-
gions, (and) erected to him two ﬁne
obelisks, of granite. . . . . site did
this (to whom) life is given, like the
sun, for ever.”

On the same wall, below the hand
of the deity, is the following inscrip-
tion :—“ This additional work (i. e.
sculpture) made he, the king Re-
meses (11.), to his father Amunre.”
Beyond are some elegant fowling
scenes, and other sculptures; and on
the west wall are a series of hawks
in very prominent relief, about the
height of a man, surmounted by the
asp and globe, the emblems of the
sun, and of the king as Pharaoh.

Though I took some trouble to
protect the sculptures of these ter-
races, I believe they have been again

