 

 

 

Egypt. mm 7. — Benz. — PASSAGE or nurtures.

tale-ed of and ranged on either side,
indications of which are seen long
before to the westward in the heaps of
mpheduinurvdsurmd-mrka

The ancients probably followed
the same line as the pilgrims at
the present day, by the Derb el Hag,
thong another road seems to have
led a southerly direction from
Heliopolis, and either to have fallen
into it to the west of the Wadee
Halasénee, or to have gone in a dif-
ferent line through the desert to the
south.

A little beyond this, the Msasee
road joins the Derb el Hag, and they
continue together to El Mﬁktala and
Ageréod, where, as already shown,
the road of the pilgrims runs off to
the eastward, and the others go in s
southerly direction to Sues.

El Mftktala. I suppose from its
name and position to be the Migdol
of the Bible. By this deﬁle, the main
I'd passes; most of the roads having
been once more united into one, a short
distance before teaching it. The course
thus far from Cairo is nearly cast, it
then takes a southerly direction to
Sues; but the Derb el Hag again
strikes 011' to the eastward from the
Port of Agerood, and crosses the
Peninsula of Sinai. Agerood is a
Turkish fort; and at Beer Sues is a
well of brackish water.

SUEZ is in lat. 29° 57’ 30” N.,
and long. 39° 35’ E. from Green-
wich. The environs are monotonous
and barren. The town is small and
insigniﬁcant. But Sues is not with-
out interest in an historical point of
Vi", from having been the spot
where the lsraelites crossed the lled
Sea on their way to the wilderness of
Sinai, and were delivered from the
bondage of the Egyptians. This
passage of the sea was probahl a
short distance tothc E. ofthetuothn
town, at the spot where the camels
now ford it on their way to the foun-
tainofel Ghurkudeh. ln former times
the water appears to have been con-
siderably deeper than at the present

 

 

209

day, as we ﬁnd positive evidences of
the elevation of the ground in the
vicinity, at least on the west dde of
Sues; where the plain, once covered
by the sea, and still strewed with
shells, is far above the reach of its
highestrise.

Many reasons combine to la the
spot about the present ford; amon
which are the direction of the channe ,
the general line of the road, and the
depth of the water. Of the ﬁrst it
maybeohserved thatit isthe par'tof
the see most likely to be affected in
the manner described " by a strong
east wind." 9. Theroad from Mi -
dol, (which I believe to be the deﬁ e
still known to the Arabs by the name
of Mtftktala), where the Israelites
turned 08' to the right, goes directly
to this point; and 3. Though the
traditions of the Arabs ﬁx the passage
at the eastern end of the Wadee el
Arraba, “ the valley of the chariots,”
and the wells and mountain of Harn-
mam, Pharaéon, on the opposite
share, are said to have derived that
name from the destruction of Pha-
raoh's host, the depth of the sea
there, and in all other parts would
have been too great to allow of its
division being compared to a wall on
either hand; for it is natural to
suppose the Israelites would not have
made less of the miracle, and the
division of deeper water would uno
doubtedly have justiﬁed their calling
it a mountain, rather than a wall.
Moreover, the greater breadth of the
see in other places would have re-
quired a longer period for their passage
than is 'ven in the Bible; and the
object ofg‘entanglin and overwhelm-
ing the chariots an host of Pharaoh
would be sufﬁciently obtained here,
by the return of the waters blown
heck by the wind, and the addition of
a tide of between 5 and 6 feet ; which
rises there regularly to the present
day. Besides, according to Dr.
Robinson, the island 'ust below the
ford is still called Gee el Yshdod

meat-underwent..."

