W

gage, and proceed immediately to
Cairo. He will pay about 7 piastres
for two camels. and for a donkey to
the ion at Cairo l piastre. After
puing through some of the narrow
streets of Boo“! he arrives at an open
space, where the road turns tothe left
direct to Cairo; and the citadel, the
range of the Mokuuum hills, and
the minarets of Cairo, now open to
ln's view. This road has been greatly
improved within the last ten years,
the earth taken from the mounds hav—
ing been used to raise it, and the
ground on either side levelled and
partly planted with trees. The re-
moval of the mounds on the W.
side of Cairo has been undoubtedly
one of the most useful wetks per-
formed by the Pasha, both for the
appearance and health of the city;
and some idea may be had of the
greatness of the undertaking from
those that still remain on the other side.

The entrance to Cairo from Boo-
m; is by the gate of the L'xbeké'e'h,
an extensive square. containing about
450,000 square feet; nearly the whole
of which used to be, during the inun-
dation, one large sheet of water. In
the following spring itbecame a corn-
ﬁeld, with the exception of that part
appropriated to a military esplanade.
Within the last few years a canal has
been cut round it, in order to keep
the water from the centre, though
from the Iowness of its level much
still oozes through to its surface,
during the high Nile; and it has
been laid out par tly as a garden. and
partly as fields, with trees planted
on the banks of the canal that sur-
rounds it. A broad road leads
through the centre. from the entrance
to the opposite side, passing over a
bridge at either end; and it is in con-
tetnplatiou to establish a Turkish café
on one side, and a European one on
the other, for the convenience of the
natives and the Franks. 0n the W.
side. or the left as you pass through
the gate, is the palace of the late Mo-
hammed Bey Dcftetd‘r, in whose

ROUTE 6. — nooux.

 

 

115

garden the unfortunate Kleber was
assassinated; and on the south anathe
hareém of the Pasha, the house of
Ahmed Pasha Tiber, and other
buildings; offering a pleasing con-
trast to the gloomy abodes of the
Copts, which form the northern side.
These, as well as all the other houses
of Cairo have been lately white-washed
by order of the Pasha, to the destruc-
tion of the Oiiental character of the
town; and as a security against ﬁre,
no more picturesque wooden nastin-
b€c‘lu, or latticed balconies, are to be
made.

Mohammed Bey Defterdiir, or, as
he is called by Europeans, the Def-
terdtir Bey. was the son-in-law of
Mohammed Ali, whose daughter,
Nt’isleh Hanem, he married. He was
well known for his savage disposition
and the many cruelties he perpetrated,
both in Cairo, and when commanding
in Senniir and Kordofan; and his
death in 1838 was hailed, as might be
expected, with universal satisfaction.
He was a man of some talent, and
was more accomplished than the
generality of Turks; but this su-
periority only served to add to his
condemnation for the cruelties be de-
lighted in committing. which could
not be palliatcd by the excuse of ig-
norance. It would neither be desir-
able nor agreeable to enumerate all
the follies and cruelties of this man,
many of which were done for the
pleasure of sustaining the fame he
had acquired for madness, as well as
from real savageness of dispOsition:
a single example will suﬂice. On
one occasion a black slave of his had
bought some milk from a poor woman,
and after drinking it had refused the
payment of 5 paras, which was the
price of the quantity he had taken.
The woman, ﬁnding .who he was.
complained to his master. 'lhe boy
was sent for. but denied the accusa-
tion. The Dcfterdir inquired of the
woman if she nas positive he had
drunk the milk ; and on her answer.
lug iii the afﬁrmative, he said, “ 1 will

