 

 

Egypt. some l4.—cuno m m mar-non mas.

sealed. Retreating to this, they pull
up the wooden drawbrid that se-
rrate it from the rest the build-
ng: a well of water and a supply of
provisions always deposited there, and
never allowed to decrease below a
certain quantity, secures them against
the risk ofwent offood; and the
time occupied in the siege, ere the
Arabs could eﬂ‘ect an entrance, would
always be suﬁcient to enable them to
remove every thing estable, or other-
wise valuable, from below, and render
the occupation of the body of the
place totally unproﬁtable to the in-
truders. _

Every civility is shown to the stranger
during his stay, which I experienced
both at Dayr Suriéni and St. Maca-
rins. particularly from the superior of
thelatler; and [have reason to be-
lieve that the others are equally hos-
pitable. The room allotted to a
stranger at Dsyr Suriéni is large and
well lighted; but I recommend him
to remove the mats before he takes up
his abode there, otherwise he is not
likely to pass a comfortable night,
under the assaults of some hundreds
of bugs; and he will run a risk of
carrying away many score in his bag-
gage, which may continue to torment
him, and people the houses of his fu-
ture hosts, unless he can spare a con-
ple of hours in the morning to clear
his things of these intruders. St.
Macsrius is free from this scourge;
but of the other two I can say nothing,
not having passed the night either at
Baramoés or Ambe Bishoi.

The Dayr Surinini was built by one
Honnes, a holy personage. whose tree
is still seen about a couple ofmilesto
the southward, near the ruins of two
other convents. It is supposed to re-
semble Noah's ark in form, though in
no other respects ; for here, as at
other Coptic monasteries. the admis-
sion of women is strictly prohibited,
to the great discnmﬁtnre of any ladies
who may happen to visit these regions.
But though stern and inﬂexible, like
other monks. respecting the admission

 

 

248

of women, and in refusing to all but
the unmarried the rivileges of a mo-
nastic life, they 0 not exclude a
widower, on his renouncing for ever
the thoughts of matrimony. The
rules of the Coptic church are even so
indulgent as to allow a priest, who
has not taken monastic vows, to marry
once; but the death of this his only
wife condemns him to future celibacy,
though it should happen a few week.
after the celebration of the marriage
rites. Like the Greeks, they adopt
the command in I Tim. iii. 9—”.
Thetitleofthesuperior ofa mo-
nastery is Gems. He is nest in
rank to a bishop. The head of the
Coptic, like the Greek and other
eastern churches, isthe patriarch, who
answers to the pope of Rome, and is
elected to this high oﬂlce from among
the fathers of St. Antony, or some
other monastery. Next to him is the
mutran, who, appointed by the Egyp.
tian patriarch, is sent to Abyssinia to
superintend that oil'set of the Coptic
church. In former times, when the
patriarch lived in Alexandria, there
was a mntrin at Cairo; but his re-
moval to the capital has rendered this
ofﬁce unnecessary; and the only dig-
nitary now holding that title is the
chief of the Abyssinian Christians;
who at his death is succeeded by ano-
ther from Cairo, sent in chains to his
see, as if to demonstrate with full
effect the truth of “ aolo episcopan'.”
Egypt, which once swarmed with
monks, and was not less proliﬁc in
nuns, has now only seven monasteries,
and is entirer destitute of nunneries,
whose inmates might not perhaps feel
safe in a country in the hands of the
Moslems. These seven are the two
in the eastern desert of St. Antony
and St. Paul. the four of the Natron
valley, and one at Gebel Koskam, in
Upper Egypt. To these the name
monastery properly belongs ; and
convent may be conﬁned to those
ahere women are admitted as well as
men, as in the numerous Deyrs on

[the Nile. The Dayr cl Adrs on
.9

