 

218

neighbouring localities, are the great
objects of interest to those who visit
the peninsula of Mount Sinai.

Consent of Mount Sinai. -—The
convent is situated in a narrow val-
ley, backed on the S. W. by the bold
granite peaks of Mount Sinai, that
give a grandeur to the scene. while
they accord with the character of the
secluded spot chosen for the shade of
monks. In addition to these impres-
sions, the traveller is delighted by the
appearance of a habitation, and the
sight of other objects as rare and
pleasing in the desert as the abode of
human heings,—the green trees of a
garden, which, however small, has in
such a spot peculiar charms.

The convent stands on the slope of
a rising ground, on the western side
of the valley. It is surrounded by
a strong and lofty wall, defended
by towers. Moreover, the monks
have small arms, and even cannon;
but there is little reason to suppose
that circumstances or their inclination
often call for their use; and however
successful they might be in hostility
against the Arabs, the death of their
enemies would be a far greater mis-
fortune than advantage to the con-
vent, and would be severely avenged
by the stoppage of their supplies.
We may, therefore, conclude that visi-
tors know much more of these wea-
pons than the Arabs, and that the
defence of the convent consists, as
becomes a Christian community, more
in the friendly offices performed to
the Arabs than in their arms: and
its inaccessible walls, being a suﬂi-
cient barrier to unwelcome strangers,
sufﬁce to prevent the intrusion of idle
or ill-disposed persons. Though they
have a hack entrance through the
garden, from which an underground
passage communicates with the inte-
rior, the usual mode of admittance is
by a trap-door, or window, raised
about 30 feet from the ground, to
which visitors are drawn up by ropes,
as at the convents of St. Antony and
St. Paul, in the Eastern Desert of

some 8. -— came so noose sum.

 

SeetII.

Egypt. The interior consists of
several courts, with two sets of rooms,
one over the other; the doors of the
ground-ﬂoors opening on the open
area, and those of the upper story on
a balcony or wooden corridor that
runs round it.

The inmates are Greek Christians.
In the church are preserved the re-
lies of the patron, St. Catherine ;
though Burckhardt says Seetsen is
wrong in calling it the “ Convent of
St. Catherine,” as it is not dedicated
to her but to the Transﬁguration, or,
as the Greeks call it, the Metamorpho-
sis. That, however, is the name by
which it is generally known; though
it does not prevent St. George from
receiving a few spare honours in a
small chapel on the walls, where he is
represented on his white horse, warring
with the dragon, and with all the rules
of drawing, in much the same manner
as he usually does in the Coptic
churches; and the votaries of Islam
are ﬂatten ed by the admission of a
mask within the precincts of the con-
vent, with the same object that induces
the monks of Bibbeh to convert their
saint into a Moslem shekh. Nor is
this the only safeguard against the ani-
mosity of their religious enemies, or the
assaults of the Arab freebooter. The
monks of Mount Sinai have a claim
on the protection, or, at least, on the
toleration, of the Mosléms, by the es-
press order of Mohammed, given them
during his (supposed) visit to their
convent, which enjoins his followers to
abstain from molesting its charitable
and useful inmates, on condition of
their feeding those who pass by. This
precious document was preserved by
them with becoming respect within the
convent, until Sultan Selim begged or
demanded its removal to Constanti-
nople, substituting another written by
him for the same purpose.

The convent only contains, at this
time, 90 monks. They are governed
by a superior; and some are priests,
others lay brethren. The various
duties required for the beneﬁt of the

