 

112

the spot where the Israelites lived, to
have any claim to the title of one of
the two treasure cities, Pithom and
Rameses, mentioned in Exodus. And,
indeed, Rameses is expressly stated
to have been the place whence the
Israelites took their departure for
Succoth, and Etham at the edge of
the Wilderness, on their way to the
Red Sea.

Wild boars frequent some of the
islands in the Rosetta branch, but
they are difﬁcult to ﬁnd, without ex-
perienced guides. Traces of an old
canal, running to the N. N. W., by
some supposed to be the Canopic
branch of the Nile, may be seen above
N igéeleh, which is traditionally called
the Bahr Yoosef. It has been lately
enlarged, and joined by the new canal,
opened ﬁre or six miles above Teraneh,
and is used to carry water to the plain
of the Bahayreh, and even to supply
the Mahmoodé'e’h during the summer.
Not far from this should be the site
of Gynecopolis and Andmpolis, by
some supposed to be the same city.

About two or three miles to the
westward of Kom-Sheréek are the
mounds of an ancient town, on the
canal. Some stone remains were
found there a few years since, in dig.
ging for nitre, but were speedily taken
away, which is the fate of evety frag-
ment of masonry as soon as discovered.
The mounds are called Tel el odameh
(“ of the bones"), from the bodies
found butied amidst them. A little
higher up is Taréeh, near which are
other mounds, and the branch of a
canal, which follows the course of the
ancient Lycus coach's, that ran towan ds
the lake Mareotis. Some suppose
Momemphis to have stood here; but
as it was near the road to the Natron
Lakes, it is more likely to have been
at El Booragat, or Kafr Daoot, near
the former of which are the mounds
of an old town of considerable size.
At Aboo-l-khawee and Shabéor are
the shallowest parts of the Rosetta
branch, which in summer are barely
passable for large boats. About Na-

 

aou'ra 6. —- snamnma 'ro mean an camo. Sect. I.

der, on the E. bank, are many wild

boars, which are found in many other

parts of the Delta, particularly in the

low marsh lands to the N., and about

the lake Menaaleh, as well as in the
00m.

Teraneh is the successor of Tere-
nuthis. About ll mile to the W.,
beyond the canal, are mounds of con-
siderable extent, which probably mark
its ancient site: and it is ftom this
place that the road leads from the
Nile to the Natron Lakes. The in-
habitants of Tetaneh are principally
employed in bringing the natron from
the desert, the whole of which is
farmed from the Pasha by Signor
Gibarra; and to this is attributable
the prosperous condition of that village.
The lakes are distant from Teraneh
about twelve hours’ journey. (See
Route 14. Section 11.)

Near Lekhmas ate other mounds,
perhaps of the city of Menelaus; so
called, not from the Greek hero, but
from the brother of the ﬁrst Ptolemy ;
and between Aboo-Nishabee and
Beni-Salameh is the entrance of the
new canal, cut by Mohammed Ali in
1820, which, as before stated, carries
the water to that of Alexandria.

The traveller descries the Pyramids
for the ﬁrst time, from the share, a
little above Werdan, when about due
west of Ashmoon ; and hereabouts
the desert has invaded the soil on the
west bank, and even poured its drifted
sand into the Nile. At Ashmoon or
Oshmuun are lofty mounds, but no
sculptured remains. A little beyond
Aboo-Ghaleb the pyramids are seen
from the river, and continue in sight
the remainder of the voyage to Cairo.
About two miles below, or N. W. of
Om-e’deenar, is the spot where the
works for the proposed barrage of the
Nile have been commenced; and
about the same distance above that
village is the southern point, or apex,
of the Delta. Hete the Nile divides
itself into the two branches of Rosetta
and Damietta; though the increasing
shallowness of the passage between

