 

 

U. Egypt.

utmost extent of his omce, could not
be superintendent of all those dif-
ferent branches of Egyptian art and
employment. Nor could the ﬁgures
of the king, who sometimes receives
presents borne by Ethiopians and
blacks, at others by men of a white
nation, or a deputation of Egyptians,
relate any further to the person of
the tomb than as it showed the era in
which he lived. This, as well as the
shave-mentioned subjects, must ne-
cessarily allude to the manners and
customs of the Egyptians as a people,
and in short he an epitome of Iowa
life,- an idea perfectly in harmony
with their constant introduction into
all the large tombs, at least of the
earliest times, and of the ei hteenth
and nineteenth dynasties, an at once
accounting for the name of the indi.
vidual, and the scenes immediately
relating to him, being alone alteted
when te-occupied by another person.

in No. ll. is an interesting agri-
cultural scene, containing the diﬂ'er—
ent operations of reaping, carrying,
gleaning, trituration by oxen, win-
nowing, and housing.

No. H. is much ruined, but re-
markable as being the only one in
which a drove of pigs is introduced.
They are followed by a man holding
a knotted whip in his hand, and would
appear, from the wild plants before
them. to be a confirmation of Hero-
dotus‘s account of their employment
to tread-in the grain afier the inunda-
tion; which singular use of an ani-
mal so little inclined by its habits to
promote agricultural objects, has been
explained by supposing they were in.
troduced beforehand. to clear the
ground of the roots and ﬁbres of the
weeds which the water of the Nile
had nourished on the irrigated soil.
They are here brought. with the other
animals of the farmyard. to be regis-
tered by the scribes; who, as usual,
note down the number of the cattle
and possessionsoftbedeceased; and
they are divided into three distinct
lines, composed of sows with young.

PIGS—1 TUNERAL WON.

 

381

pigs, and boars. The ﬁgures of the
animals in this catacotnb are very
characteristic.

No. 16. is a seq intending“
as well in point of chronology, as in
the execution of its paintings. Here
the names of four hinge, from the
third Thotbmes to Amunoph IIL,
inclusive, satisfactorily conﬁrm the
order of their succession as given in
the Ahydus tablet and the lists of
Thebes. in the inner chamber, the
inmate of the tomb. a “royal scribe,”
or basilica-grammes, undergoes his
ﬁnal judgment, previnusto sdmimion
into the presence of Osiris. Then
follows a long procession, arranged in
four lines, representing the laments-
tions of the women, and the apptoach
of the bar-is or come, containing the
body of the deceased, drawn on a
sledge by four oxen. in the second
line men advance with dim-rent in-
signia belonging to the king Amu.
nopb; in the third, with various ol'er.
ings, a chariot, chairs, and other ob-

jects; and in the last line a priest,

followed by the chief moutners, oﬂd.
ates before the boats, in which are
seated the besilico-grsmmat and his
sister. “ The rudders,” as Herodo-
tus observes, “are passed through the
heel " in their larger boats of burthen,
while those of smaller sise have ope
on either side. They consist, like the
other, of a species of large paddle,
with a rope fastened to the upper
end, by which their sway on the cen-
tre of motion is regulated to and 00.
One square sail, lowered at pleasure
over the cabin, with a ard at the top
and bottom, is suspnded at its cen-
tre to the summit ofa short mast,
which stands in the middle, and is
braced by stays fastened to the fore
and after part of the boat.

On the opposite wall is a fowling
and ﬁshing scene; and the dried ﬁsh
suspended in the host remind us of
the observations of Herodotus and
Diodorus, who mention them as con-
stituting a very considerable articleof
food among this people; for, with the

