 

254

it with one of those square open plat- 1
forms, ornamented with columns, so
otten found before the tetnples of the
Theba‘id; and this avenue formed a
continuation of the main street. The
total dimensions of the area occupied
by the town was about 1730 feet
by 1000, but the extent of its walls
is not easily traced, amidst the heaps
of sand that have accumulated over
them; and the whole is in a very
dilapidated state.

Though the relative latitudes of
Bacchis and Dionysias, given by
Ptolemy, do not allow the former to
have been at Dimay, it is not impro-
bable that it stood there; and it is
evident that the position he assigns
to Dionysias, 99° 0’, cannot suit any
place in the Arsino'lte nome. Not-
withstanding the latitude he gives it,
and its reputed longitude due south
of Bacchis, Dionysias seems to have
stood at the Easr e1 Kharoon, near
the south-west corner of the lake, if
he is correct in placing those towns
“ near the Lake Morris.” Were it
not for this expression, we might
suppose Dionysias to have been
one of the ruined towns near El
Ghérelt; and Harab-t e' Nishan
would suit Ptolemy’s longitude in
reference to Bacchis or Dimay. At
all events, the ruins at 15a" el Kha-
roon are the most important, as well
as the best preserved, of any in the
Fyoé'm: a lace of so much conse-
quence conlclJ not have been omitted ;
and the authority of D'Anville sup-
potts its claim to the site of Diony-
sias. He places Bacchis or Banchis
near the east end of the lake at Kom
Weseém.

c. KAII KHABOOH.

The gear Maroon (or gear EI 10m-
ro0a) may be visited from the lake ; but
the best way is to go from Medeeneh
to Nesleh, distant about 14 miles, and
thence to Kasr Kharoon, a ride of
91 miles. The principal building to
which the name of gasr Kharoon pro-
perly belongs, is an Egyptian temple,

non-rs 16. — CAIRO To me noon.

 

SectII.

measuring 94 feet by 68, and 48 in
height, receded by a court about 85
feet In dpepth. It contains 14 cham-
bers and 9 staircases on the ground-
ﬂoor, besides a long passage on
either side of the adytum, whose end
wall is divided into three narrow
cells. The whole is of hewn stone,
and a very good style of masonry.
It appears to be of Roman date; and
in the upper story is a vaulted stair-
case. Pococlte has erroneously sup-
posed this to be the Labyrinth, with
which it agrees neither in dimensions,
distribution, nor position.

Three hundred and eighty paces
(about 996 feet) in front of the temple
is a uare stone ruin, that probably
forme the entrance of its dresses;
and near it is another small buildin
of similar materials. One hund
and thirty paces to the south-east is a
Roman temple of brick, stuccoed,
about 18 feet square, on a stone plat-
form, the outer face of its walls or-
namented with pilasters and half
columns. In form, size, and appear-
ance, it resembles two buildings near
Rome, one called the temple of Ile-
diculus, and the other a supposed
tomb, outside the Ports Pia. The
roof is arched, and the door in front
opens upon a small area, part of the
platform upon which it stands; and
the principal difference between this
and the above-mentioned buildings
is, that here half-columns are substi-
tuted at the side walls for pilasters,
and it has a side-door. Other ves-
tiges of ruins are scattered over an
extent of about 900 by 400 paces, or
about 2384 by 1050 feet; and at the
western extremity of this space, 350
paces behind the temple, are the re-
mains of an arch, partly of stone, and
partly of crude brick, whose northern
face looks towards the lake, and the
other towards a small crude brick
ruin. Near the arch is a stone re-
sembling a stool, or an altar, also of
Roman time.

It is not alone by the situation of

‘ this town that the former extent of

