 

xii INTRODUCTION.

In returning from India there is an additional expense for
quarantine, which may be calculated at Ill. 10:. for the 17 days at
Malta (or less if shared by two persons), making the total, ac-
cording to the second calculation, 1391. 10:.

It may be observed — 1st. That the ﬁrst of the above calculations
appears to be made on the most economical plan ; — 2nd. That in
both, the sum total does not include stoppages on the road, but
allows only for the actual expenses of the direct journey ; -- 3d.
That 1701. is generally considered necessary for a person leaving
India for England, who intends to travel economically by public
conveyances, or 1501. if taking a deck passage.

0. BTEAHEBB FROM MARSEILLES TO EGYPT.

French steamers run direct from Marseilles to Egypt, and the
old line by Syra is abandoned.

There is also an English steamer between Marseilles and Malta
which goes once a month to and from Malta, where it meets the
packet coming direct from England. The fare from Marseilles to
Malta is 91., including board, for a let class passenger; that of the
2nd class being 51., living also included. It leaves Marseilles on the
9th of every month, arriving at Malta early on the third day, or the
12th; and brings with it the London mail for India, which is made
up on the 4th, unless it should happen to fall on a Sunday, when it
is deferred till the following day. By this junction-steamer letters
can be despatched from London three or four days later than by the
packet that goes round by Gibraltar to Malta.

The arrangements of the Mediterranean steamers are frequently
changing; and it is therefore advisable to refer to the Tariffs issued
annually by the diti'erent companies.

d. STEAMEBS FROM ENGLAND BY GIBRALTAR AND MALTA.

Steamers leave Southampton to Alexandria and India on the 8rd
and 20th of every month for Alexandria, calling at Gibraltar and
Malta. They are connected with the overland journey to India.

Those who have time to spare may visit Lisbon, and the neigh-
bourhood, or Cadiz and Seville, by going out in one of the previous
Gibraltar steamers, which leave England every week, (touching at
Vigo, Oporto, Lisbon, and Cadiz, on the way to Gibraltar) and join
the Alexandrian packet, the week or fortnight after, at Gibraltar.

The following is the latest information published by the Penin-
sular and Oriental Company respecting their steamers to Egypt and
India.

