 

Egypt.

according to Herodotus, 8 cubits
suﬁeed for the irrigation of the land
of Egypt; and 900 years afterwards,
in the time of the historian, 15 or 16,
which would give between 7 and 8
cubits for the increase of the height of
the land during that period. But 'as
this is impossible, we must either con-
clude that he has confounded the
measures of diii'erent parts of Egypt,
or that in one case the rise is calculated
from the surface,and in the other from
the bed of the river. Sixteen cubits
were marked for the rise of the Nile,
on the statue of that deity at Rome,
which implies no alteration since the
days of Herodotus, so that it is pro-
bable that the average rise of the river
remained the same: and this is further
testiﬁed by the fact that, in the fourth
century, 15 cubits were recorded by
the Emperor Justinian, as the height
of the inundation. In 1720, 16 cuhits
were again cited as the requisite height
for irrigating the land, and the people
were then said to make rejoicings,
and to consider the mﬂ'u Altair or
“ promise of God," to be fulﬁlled.
Pliny also allows 16 for an abundant
harvest, and Plutarch gives H as the
least rise capable of producing beneﬁt
to the country about Memphis, 20 at
Elephantine, and six at Xois and
Mendes.

It is calculated that the pillar of
the Mekkeeis contains 24 cubits, a
number which implies completion,
and which may be purely ideal. not
being aﬂised to the scale marked
upon it. And as each of these divi-
sions or cubits consists of ‘24 digits
or 6 palms, and is 21}. inches
long, it is exceedingly itnprobtblo
that so slender a column should es-
ceed the height of 16 cubits, which
would be about 18 diameters. l’o-
cocke is of the same Opinion. lie
sapposes “ there could not be above 5
or6 peeks (cubits) below the 11 he
saw above water " in ”38; though
one writer gives 36 feet 8 inches lor
the height of the column; and says
the column is divided into 90 peeks

NILOHETEB.

 

161

of 29 inches each. By his account
the two lowermost packs are not
divided at all, but are without mark,
to stand for the quantity of sludge
deposited there, which occupies the
place of water: 9 peeks are then
divided on the right hand into 24
digits each; then on the left 4 peeks,
each into 24 digits; then on the right
4; and on the left 4 again; and
again 4 on the right, which complete
the number of 18 peeks from the ﬁrst
division marked on the pillar; the
Whole, marked and unmarked, amount-
ing to 36 feet 8 inches.

It is perhaps seldom that travellers
are in Cairo at the beginning of June,
or the end of May; but if so, it
would be worth while to ascertain
the enct height of the column at
that time, when the water is at its
lowest.

Since writing the above, I have
seen Mr. Coste's architectural views
and plans of the buildings of Cairo,
from which it appears that the column
has, as I supposed, only 16 cuhits
from the base to the capital. The
cubit he reckons at 541] millimetres,
and the cubit of Cairo being equal to
861 millimetres, ‘24 of the latter are
equal to the 16 of the column. The
“ Description de l'Egypte" gives the
same number of 16 cubits above the
pedestal. The six lowest _are ac-
parated by a line, but not divided into
digits, like the remaining l0 at the top
of the column. .

Some have stated that the cubtts
are of diﬂ'erent lengths, but this ts not
the case: though it is certain that no
accurate calculation can be obtained
from a column. which hasbeen broken,
and repaired in such a manner, that
one of the cubits remains incomplete;
and it is evident that the number of
cuhits of the river‘s rise, as calculated
at the time of its erection, must drﬂ‘cr
much from that marked by it at the
present day ; the elevation of the bed
of the Nile having altered the relative
proportion of the rise of the water,

i which now passesaboutonecuhitaod

