 

346 ' nascmmort

advance; but, routed by the Egyptian
invaders, they are forced to throw
themselves back upon the town, and
many, in recrossing the river, are
either carried away by the stream, or
fall under die arrows of the advancing
conqueror. Those who have suc-
ceeded in reaching the opposite bank
are rescued by their friends, who,
drawn up in three phalanxes (de-
scribed in the hieroglyphics as 8000
strong), witness the defeat of their
comrades, and the ﬂight of the re-
mainder of their chariots. Some
carry to the rear the lifeless corpse
of their chief, who has been drowned
in the river, and in vain endeavour to
restore life, by holding the head
downwards to expel the water; and
other! implore the clemency of the
victor, and acknowledge him their
conqueror and lord.

Above this battle.scene is a pro-
cession of priests, bearing the ﬁgures
of the Thelma ancestors of Remeses
II. The ﬁrst of these is Manes;
then Manmoph another Diospolitan
-king; and after him those of the
eighteenth dynasty. The intermediate
monarchs after M cues and Manmoph
are omitted, from not being of a
'Iheban family. The remaining sub-
jects are similar to those in the coro-
nation of- the king at Medeénet
Haboo, where the ﬂight of the four
carrier pigeons ; the king cutting ears
of corn, afterwards offered to the god
of generation; the queen; the sacred
bull; and the ﬁgures of his an-
cestors, placed before the god, are
'more easily traced from the greater
preservation of that building.

Beyond the west staircase of the
north corridor, the king kneels before
Amunre, Maut, and Khonso; Thoth
notes on his palm-branch the years of
the panegyries, and Mandoo, with
Atmoo, introduce Remeses into the
presence of those deities.

0n the other side, forming the
south wall of the great hall, is a small
but interesting battle, where the use
of the ladder and of the testudo throw

or THEBBI. Sect. 1?.

considerable light on the mode of war-
fare at that early period. The town,
situated on a loﬁy rock, is obstinate]
defended, and many are hurled bead!
long from its walls by the spears,
arrows, and stones of the besieged;
they, however, on the nearer approach
of the Egyptian king, are obliged to
sue for peace, and send heralds with
presents to depreeate his fury, while
his infantry, commanded by his sons,
are putting to the sword the routed
enemy they have overtaken beneath
the walls, where they had in vain
looked for refuge, the gates being
already beset by the Egyptian troops.
I do not pretend to decide against
what nation this war was waged; but
it is suﬁciently evident that a people
of Asia are here represented; and
though some may think these hostili-
ties were carried on in the Delta, I
cannot allow myself to be misled by
so unfounded an hypothesis. I be-
lieve that the seat of the long war,
waged by the Egyptians against these
northern nations, was in the neigh-
bout hood of Assyria 'and the Eu-
phrates : and there is every probability
that, were we acquainted with the
earlier geography of the intermediate
provinces and towns from Egypt to
that country, we should ﬁnd they
agreed with the names attached to the
captives in the temples and tombs of
Thebes. If it be deemed too much
for the power and extent of Egypt
that their armies should have been
able to reach the distant borders of
Assyria, every one will admit the
fact, that “Necho, king of Egypt,
came up to ﬁght against Carchemish,
by Euphrates,"in the reign of Josiah,
whose imprudent interference cost
him his kingdom and his life. Still
stronger, indeed, is the following ex-
press statement of the former extent
of the Egyptian dominions, that “the
king of Egypt came not again any
more out of his land; for the king of
Babylon had taken from the river
of Egypt, unto the river Euphrates,
[ all that pertained to the king of

 

