 

Egypt. norm: 6. — ALEXANDRIA 'ro arena AND camo.

the point, and the island to the south,
will soon place the commencement
of the Delta about two miles further
south, nearly opposite the village of
Men‘sheh.

Theobjectof thebsrrsge istore-
taio the water of the Nile, in order
that it may be used for irrigating the
lands, when the inundation has tetired,
and supply the place of water-wheels,
which add so much to the expense of
cultivation. One dam is to be thrown
across the Rosetta, another across the
Damietta, branch; a large canal is to
he carried direct through the centre
of the Delta, and the quantity of water
allowed to pass into this, and the two
branches of the river, is to be regulated
by means of sluices, according to cir-
cumstances. A slight change is also
to he made in the course of the Nile,
so as to cut 05‘ a useless angle below
Kafr Mansonr on the western, and
another shove Shoobra. Shabéeh on
the eastern, branch; and the canal for
irrigating the plain between Bclbeys
and Buhastis, communicating with'
that of Tel el Wadee, is to leave the
Nile at Shela-gin.

By these means, the want of water
during the low Nile, a deﬁcient inun-
dation, and the great loss of water
suﬂ'ered to run ofl‘ uselessly into the
sea, will be obviated; and the addi-
tional eﬂ'ect will be obtained of in-
creasing the height of the river, above
the barrage, during the inundation,
so as to enable it to itrigate lands of
every level. The barrage of the [le-
setta branch is to consist of a massive
stone darn, with ‘24 arches 30 feet
broad, and a large central arch 99 feet
broad, to allow the passage of the
ptincipal volume of water. The dam
of the Damietta branch is to have
16 arches, 30 feet broad, with a large
central arch. The principal arches
of both dams are to be always kept
open, but the lateral arches are to be
closed during the low Nile , by which
means sufﬁcient water will be afforded
to supply the canals intended for the
irrigation of the interior.

 

 

113

Many delays have occurred, from
various causes, to prevent the com-
pletion of this gigantic undertaking.
M. Linant, by whom it has been

jccted and commenced, has been 0'.-

quently ordered to abandon, and as
often desired to continue, the works:
and fear of disasters from the volume
of water thus withheld, a political
apparition, or the intrigues of in-
dividuals, have at times tnterfered to
prevent its completion. It is far from
my wish to presume to decide on the
probability of its success; the pressure
of so enormous a body of water will
require precautions of no ordinary
kind, to prevent the river's carrying
away, or piercing through, the banks
at the haunches or abutments of the
stone dam; and, being of alluvial
soil,theywil|beexpoacdtodangerboth
from the force of the water against
the bank, and by its ﬁltration beneath
the surface. If the dam abutted on
either side on rock, this would be
effectually obviated, and the only
thing then required would be the soli-
dity of the dam itself, and the ﬁrm-
ness of its well-founded piers: but
the construction of a dam in alluvial
soil appears to present diﬂ‘iculties,
and even dangers to the country, which
the most wonderful shill can alone
overcome.

In former times, the point of the
Delta was much more to the south
than at present. Cercasora, in the
L6t0polite name, which was just above
it on the west bank, stood, according
to Straho, nearly opposite, or west of
llcliopolis, close to the observatory
of Eudosus. In llerodotus's time,
the river had one channel as far as
Cercasora; but below that town it
divided itself into three branches,
which toolt ditfcrent directions: one,
the I‘elusiac, going to the east;
another, the Cannpic, turning off to
the west; and the third going straight
fora ard, in the direction ofits previous
course through Egypt to the point of
the Delta, which it divided in twain
as it ran to the sea. It was not less

