 

 

 

Egypt.

indies with great equity, he was
naked upon by the Egyptians as su-
perior to all the kings who had ever
ruled the country.”

Myeerinns, after having treated his
people with humanity, seems to have
been treated by the gods with much
unkindness, according to the account
of the historian, who takes occasion
to relate an absurd story of his
daughter, which, like others of the
same kind, was probably a produc-
tion of the Greek quarter of those
days, where idle tales and a love of
the marvellous seem to have been as
prevalent, as in the Frank quarter at
the present time. After this, he as-
signs the cow at Sais (which, accord-
ing to his own showing, was connected
with the mysteries of [sis and Osiris)
to the daughter of Mycerinus; but
another Greek tale, attributing the
erection of the third pyramid to
Rhodopis, he very properly rejects.
“ There are some Greeks,” he says,
“who ascribe it to the courtesan
Rhodopis, but they are in error, and
do not appear to know who she was,
or surely they would not have attri-
buted to her the building of a pyra-
mid, which must have cost thousands
and thousands of talents. Besides,
Rhodopis did not live in the time
of Mycerinus but of Amasis, many
years alter the kings who built these
monuments. She was from Thrace,
the slave of ladmon, the son of
llephatstopolis, a Samian, the fellow.
slave of JEsop. the fabulist .....
Rhodopis was brought to Egypt by
Xanthus of Santos, and was named
at a large price by Charasus of Mity-
lene, the son of Scatnandronymus,
and brother of the poetess Sappho.
Having been restored to liberty, she
remained in Egypt; and being very
beautiful, she amassed a large for-
tune, for a person in her condition,
though not sufﬁcient to build such a
pyramid. Indeed, as every one may
at this day see what the tenth part of
her wealth was, it is very useless at-
tributing to her great riches; for

TB! PMS.

 

175

RhOdOpis, wishin to leave a memo-
rial of herself in grace, thought of a
novel kind of oﬂ‘ering that had oc-
curred to no one else, which she de-
dicated to the temple of Delphi. It
consisted of numerous iron spits for
roasting oxen, the cost of which was
just equal to the tenth of her pro-
perty; and these being sent to Delphi,
were put up behind the altar dedi-
cated by the Chians, opposite the
sanctuary, where they now lie.”
Diodon us says, that “ Chemhis (or
Chemmis), a Memphite, who reigned
ﬁfty years, built the largest of the
three pyramids, which are reckoned
among the seven wonders of the
woald. They stand on the Libyan
side (of the Nile),distant from him-
phis lQOstadia, and 45 from the river.
They sttike every beholder with won.
der, bath from their size and the skill
of their workmanship; for every side
of the largest, at the base, is 7 ple-
thra in length, and more than 6 in
height. Decreasing in sise towards
the summit, it there measures 6 cubits
(9 feet). The whole is of solid stone,
made with prodigious labour, and in
the most durable manner, having
lasted to our time, a period not less
than 1000 years, or, as some say, up-
wards of 8400; the stones still pre-
serving their original position, and
the whole structure being uninjured.
'lbe stone is said to have been brought
from Arabia, a considerable distance,
and the building made by means of
mounds (inclined planes), machines
not having yet been invented. What
is most surprising 5'. lb“ "'098"
these structures are of such great
antiquity, and all the surrounding
round is of so sandy a nature, there
ts no trace of a mound, nor vestlge
of the chippings of the stone: so that
the whole seems as if placed on the
surrounding send by the aid of some
deity, rather than by the sole and
gradual operations of men. Some
of the Egyptians try to make won-
derful stories about them, saying that
the mounds (inclined planes) were
I e

