 

mnoonenos. xiii

“ THE OUTWARD ROUTE.
“ First Lina—England to Alexandria, Aden, Bombay, Ceylon, Madras, and

Calcutta, Penang, Singapore, and Hong Kong. 20th of every Month.

“ The Company‘s Steamers (vessels of about 1500 tons and 450
horse-power) start from Southampton on the 20th of every month, at
2 r. 11., and after calling at Gibraltar and Malta, and receiving at the
latter place the mail of the 24th from England, brought from Mar-
seilles to Malta by Her Majesty’s steamers, arrive at Alexandria in
about sixteen days from Southampton.

Passengers are conveyed through Egypt by the Transit Adminis-
tration of his Highness the Pacha of Egypt.

The mode of transit is as follows: — lst, Alexandria to Atfeh, by
the Mahmoodeeh Canal, in large track boats, towed by a steam-tug
or by hofsea. (See Route 6.)

2nd, From Atfeb, at the junction of the canal with the Nile, to
Beulah (the port of Cairo), by the river Nile, in steamers. (See
Route 6.)

3rd, Cairo to Sues across the desert; this part of the journey is
performed in carriages. (See Route 7.)

The entire journey from Alexandria to Suez is performed with
ease in about sixty hours, including a night‘s rest at Cairo, and a
sumcient time for refreshment and repose at the central station be-
tween Cairo and Suez.

The following are extracts from the Tariff of the Transit Admi-
nistration : —

‘ Passengers are furnished with three meals per diem, during the time they
are ea route, free of charge, but their expenses at hotels must be defrayed by
themselves, as also wines, beer, &c. during their entire transit.

‘ The portmanteaus, trunks, carpet bags, &c. of the passengers, must
bear the name and destination of the owners; such inscription to be legible and
well secured.

‘ 0n the arrival of each steamer the ofﬁcer of the administration will at-
tend to receive the luggage of passengers.

‘ The administration will not be responsible for any loss or damage of
luggage, nor unavoidable detention.

‘ The administration will at all times endeavour to employ the easiest means
of conveyance, such as donkey chairs, &c. for inralids and sick persons.”

0n arriving at Sues passengers embark on board one of the Com-
pany's steamers for Ceylon, Madras, and Calcutta (vessels of about
l,800 tons and .500 horse-power), which start from Sues about the
[0th of every month, call ﬁrst at Aden, where they coal, and trans-
fer passengers and mails for Bombay to the Honourable East India

