 

INTRODUCTION. xxia

seating a plant growing from a ﬂower-pot; and near it is a ﬂat
stone like a seat, above which are engraved on an upright block two
volntes, protruding on either side of an oval body. There are no
other signs of sculpture; but a peculiar kind of ornament is com-
mon on these and all the principal members of the building, con-
sisting of round holes punctured all over the surface of the stones,
extending little deeper than the surface.

On either side of this court is a semicircular chamber; and aﬁer
passing on, through a door in a line with the main entrance, you
come to a second court, at the upper end of which to the right is
the principal sanctuary. It is of semicircular form, and its walls
are built of stones placed in horizontal courses, put together with
care, and breaking joint.

Within this is a smaller enclosure of stones, placed upright in a
circle, with an entrance corresponding to that of the room itself.
All the stones of the sanctuary have been punctured in the manner
above mentioned.

On the left of this second court are two large stone altars; one
on each side of a door leading to a small apartment, connected with
which is another little chamber, also containing an altar. There
are four more apartments at this (south-west) end of the ruins ;
and in the outer wall of circuit are some very large stones placed
upright, about 15 ft. high above the ground. A stone of similar
size stands near the sanctuary to the north-east, and another of still
larger dimensions is placed horizontally a little to the east of the
main entrance.

About 120 ft. to the north of these ruins are other semicircular en-
closures, made with stones placed upright in the ground ; and about
a mile to the south, near the sea, are some ruins similar to the
Hagar I_ieem, which are also deserving of examination.

In the same excursion may be included a visit to Maltldba, and
even to the cave called Ghar Hassan on the sea-coast to the south-
east of Crendi.

Other ruins of a similar kind are found close to Valetta, at the
Coradino, near Captain Spenser‘s monument and the new tank,
which may be visited at the same time.

With regard to the date of these peculiar structures and the
people by whom they were built, I will not pretend to oﬂ'er any
opinion. Their general appearance has rather a druidical character,
and from their antiquity and the occupation of the island by the
Phaniciaus, we might attribute them to that people ; but the absence
of all inscriptions leaves the matter in uncertainty, and the small

