 

828

some Indian strangers brought there
by accident.

Damien. —-The name of Teutyris,
or Tel-tyre, in Coptic Tentore, or
Niksntore, seems to have originated
in that of the goddess Athor, or
Aphrodite, who was particularly
worshipped there. And that the prin-
cipal temple was dedicated to that
goddess we learn from the hierogly-
phics, as well as from a Greek in-
scription on the front, of the time of
Tiberius, in whose rei n its magniﬁ-
cent portico was add to the original
building. Tentyra is probably taken
from Téi-ii-Athor, the abode of
Athor, or Athyr. The name Athor
is also a compound word, “Tei (or
Thy), Hor,” signifying “ the abode
of Horus; " which agrees with what
Plutarch says, when he calla Athor
“ Horus' mundane habitation." The
hieroglyphics, too, represent the name
of the goddess by a hawk (the emblem
of Horus) placed within a house.

Egyptian sculpture had long been
on the decline before the erection of
the temple of Denclera; and the
Egyptian antiquary looks with little
satisfaction on the graceless style of
the ﬁgures, and the crowded profu-
sion of ill-adjusted hieroglyphics, that
cover the walls of this and other
Ptolema‘ic or Roman monuments.
But architecture still retained the
grandeur of an earlier period, and
though the capitals of the columns
were frequently overcharged with or-
nament, the general effect of the por-
tieoea erected under the Ptolemies
and Cm is grand and imposing,
and frequently not destitute of ele-
gance and taste.

These remarks apply very particu-
larly to the temple of Dendera; and
from its superior state of preserva-
tion it deserves a distinguished rank
among the most interesting monu-
ments of Egypt. For though its
columns, considered singly, may be
said to have a heavy, perhaps a bar-
barons, appearance, the portico is
doubtless a noble specimen of archi.

 

nouns 24. — omen! to Emma. Sect. HI.

tecture: nor is the ' hall
devoid of beauty and symmetry of
proportion. The preservation of its
roofalso adds greatly to the beauty.
as well as the interest, of theportico,
and many of those in the

temples lose their eﬂhct by being des-
titute of roofs. Generally speaking,
Egyptian temples are more pictu-
resque when in ruinsthan when entire 3
being, if seen from without, merelya
large dead wall, scarcely relieved by a
slight increase in the height of the
portico: but not so the portico itself;
nor did a temple present the same
monotonous appearance when the
painted sculptures were in their ori-
ginal state; and it was the necessity
of relieving the large expanse of ﬂat
wall that led to this rich mode of de-
coration.

On the ceiling of the prom, or
portico of Dendera, is the zodiac,
which has led to much learned con-
troversy. At length, through the
assistance of the Greek inscription,
which was strangely overlooked, and
the hieroglyphical names of the
Caesars, on its exterior and interior
walls, which were then unknown, its
date has been satisfactorily ascertain-
ed; and instead of being of early
Pharaonic time, or of an antediluvian
age, it is now conﬁned to the more
modest and probable antiquity of
1800 years. Injustice, however, to
the celebrated Visconti, it should be
said, that he made a very accurate es-
timate of its antiquity; and it will
be found that the only three known in
Egypt, at Dendera, Esné, and its
neighbour E' Dayr, are of Ptolema'ic
or of Roman date. The astronomi-
cal subjects on the ceiling of the
tombs of the kings, and other ancient
Egyptian monuments, even if they
may be considered sodiaeal, are re.
presented in a totally different man-
ner; and we may be certain that the
zodiac, as we know it, is not Egyp-
tian. But it is remarkable, that in
those of Dendera and Esné the sign
Canceris represented by a scarabreus,

