 

232

carry away, to the consternation of
the natives.

Thelandtotbe N. and 8. ofthe
canal, particularly around Mensaleh,
is little productive, and in parts per-
fectly barren; and the increase of
nitre in the soil seems to doom to de-
struction even that which is still de-
serving of cultivation. Some land
scame repays the labour of tilling
it, and some has been found so un-
productive, that though rated for tax-
ation, and annually paying ﬁnish, it
has ceased to be cultivated.

The land of the Delta is through-
out inferior to that of the Sieed,
or Upper Egypt, where corn is much
cheaper than to the N. of Cairo.
Pliny says the Theba'id was formerly
a better corn country than Lower
Egypt. The ardeb of wheat is sold
from Mellawee southwards at 30 pi-
astres, and in the Delta at 66; and
though the same proportion of seed is
sewn in the latter, or half an ardeb to
one fetldan of land, the proportion of
produce is much less, being as 3 and
4 to 5 and 7, or even 8. This may
partly be attributed to the greater
prepmtion of other produce, as ﬂax,
cotton, sirssim, and other things,
grown in the Delta, besides rice,
which is unknown in the upper coun-
try. But still, the fact of the land
being of better quality is the main
cause of the greater proportion of corn
produced there; for much land is
also taken up in the Sieed with cot-
ton, ﬂas, sugar-cane, indigo, and
beans; and the proportion of the
number of square milesin the two are
4500 in the Delta provinces, and 2255
in the Sieed. The Delta itself, in-
deed, between the Rosetta and the
Damietta branches, contains only
1976 square miles.

I found the ﬂea just in seed, in the
Delta, at this season, the 1st of
March, 233d of the Captic Imshéer
(Mechir); and some was still in
ﬂower. (See Esod. ix. 3].)

Memleh and the Neighbourhood.—
Meazalelt stands on the canal, about

 

noun: 12. —oamo ro manna um um Sect. II.

19 miles from its entrams into the
lake. It is supposed to occupy the
site of Panephysis; and near the
point of land projecting to the N.
into the lake, some have placed Pa»
premis, the City of Mars. Menaaleh
has no remains. It is now much
larger than some years ago, when it
was merely a village of ﬁshermen;
and several minarets, with some re-
spectable houses, present an appear-
ance little expected in such an out-
of-themray place. The canal, which
contributes so much to its import-
ance. and to its very existence as a
town, also gives it a cheerful aspect.
A wooden bridge crosses it, and
unites the few houses on the W. side
with the principal part of the town ;
but this oﬂ‘ers no other obstacle to the
passage of boats to its mouth beyond
the lowering of their masts. In the
autumn there is some fever at Mensa-
beh, butin winterit is perfeCtly healthy,
and at all times more so than
Damietta. Its principal trade is in
rice and ﬁsh. The former is of good
quality, little inferior to that of Da-
mietta and Kafr el Bateékh.

The fresh-water ﬁsh mostly comes
from Toweel, on a branch of the
canal of San or Mo'és, the salt-water
kinds being brought from Mataré'éh.

On arriving at Menaaleb, I found
that it was too late in the season for
my cangia to go into the lake, and
thence to Tania; I therefore went to
the shekh of the town, who advised
my riding over to Mataréiih, on the
lake, (or, as they here call it, the
Bahdyreh,) and there engaging a
iishetman's boat to take me up the
canal of Mo'e's to San. Having lent
me his rahwda (a horse trained to a
peculiar ambling pace), and asses for
my luggage and servants, I rode
over to Mataré'e'h; but the ﬁshermen
were too certain of their proﬁts on
ﬁsh, or too much averse to the trouble
of tracking or punting up a canal, to
let me a boat; and after being doomed
to listen to numerous assertions, “ by
the beard of the Prophet," that the

