 

200

At the end of the pass , oppo-
site the entrance to this one, is a
small chamber, revamped about 17
years ago, on whose door-way are

CAIRO. —- names 4.

 

Sect. 11.
some hieroglyphica containing the

square title or bannerof a old
king, apparently with his name
outside, and not, as usual, within, an

Q {argues/mm

 

 

' oval.

 

( repeated )

In the face of the rocks to the
eastward, near the cultivated land, is a
vaulted tomb of the time of Fame-
tlcus ll., of hewn alone. This, and
uthets near the pyramids of Geeseh,
are the oldest atone arches hitherto dis-
covered, having been erected more
than 600 years before our era. That
style of building. however, was
known to the Egyptians long before,
even as earl as the time of Amu-
noph I. ant Thothmes III. of the
18th dynasty, who lived in 1570 and
1490 a. 0., some tombs with arched
roofs helng found at Thebes of that
period; and if they, like others built
in the time of the 96th dynasty, are
of crude brick, they are not less con-
vincing proofs of the invention of
the arch.

Among the moat curious objects at
Sakkara are the ibis mummy pits to
the north of the great pyramid.
and nearly due west of the village
of Ahooseer. Near the same spot
are also found mummies of snakes,
oxen. sheep, and other animals. The
ibises have been put into long earthen
pots. very like those used in melting
sugar; but, owin to the damp, they
are mostly reduc to powder; and

 

It may, however, be observed, that this chamber and its
entrance passage appear of a later date than the rest of the
pyramid. The chamber was lined with blue slabs similar to
those now called Dutch tiles; and it is scarcely necessary to
remark that vitriﬁed porcelain was a very old invention in
Egypt, and continued in vogue there till a late period, even
aﬂer the Arab conquest and the foundation of Cairo. All had
been carefully closed, and concealed by masonry; but the
treasures it contained, if any, had long since been removed.

unless a small opening is made in
them to ascertain their contents, they
are for the most part not worth taking
away.

The mummied ibises of Thebes are
much better preserved; and, instead
of being in pits, are put up in ban-
da ea, like cats and other animals.

gn the human mummy pits at Sak-
l_t_ara objects of curiosity and value
are often found, though some are oc-
casionally damaged by the damp,
owing to the great depth of many
of the tombs, which are often more
than 70 feet deep. This is more
surprisitelg as the Egyptians generally
calculat very accurately the changes
that took place in their country, and
could not but be aware of the in-
creasing rise of the level of their
river. Here, as about the pyramids
of Geeaeh, representations of the
pigmy deity of Memphis are fre-

uently met with; from whose name

thah-Soltari, or Pthah-Soltari-Osi-
ris, Mr. Salt, with great ingenuity,
suggested the origin of the name of
3:: Are.

Some years ago many curious
sculptured tombs were seen on the
high plain near these pyramids, con-

