 

184

antiquaries with speculations about
the bones of Apia.

That both the pyramids had been
Opened before the time of the Arabs,
is exceedingly probable, as we find
the Egyptians themselves had in many
instances plundered the tombs of
Thebes; and the fact of its having
been closed again is consistent with
experience in other places. Belaoni’s
tomb had been riﬂed and re-closed,
and the same is observed in many
Theban tombs, when discovered by
modern excavators.

The forced passage of the Caliph
could be followed for a great distance,
from the point where the upper and
lower passages join; but it is now
ﬁlled with stones, brought, I believe,
from the late excavations in the
pyramid.

Pliny mentions a well in the great
pyramid 86 cubits or 129 feet in
depth, by which it was supposed that
the water of the Nile was admitted ;
but this may only have been known
to him by report, and does not prove
that the pyramid was open in his
time. The same remark applies to
the stone, said by Strabo to close the
mouth of the passage. With regard
to the admission of the water of the
Nile, mentioned by Herodotus, the
much lower level of the river at once
prevents the possibility of its having
been introduced by a canal into the
pyramid, the base of which is, even
now, upwards of 100 feet above the
surface of the highest inundation, and
was more in the time of Herodotus,
and still more again at the period of
its erection. That a well in the
pyramid might have been deep
enough to reach the water is certain,
but it could not rise to surround the
lowest chambers, now seen at the bot.-
tom of the passage; and unless other
chambers exist from 20 to 30 feet
below the level of this one, the water
could not have surrounded them, even

canto. —- newsman 4.

 

Set-LII.

were the Nile at its present level.
Much less could it have done so in
the time of Suphis. At all events.
acanalfrom theNileisontoftbe
question, and quite unnecessary; as
the Egyptians must have known, that
by digging to a certain depth the
water always oozes through the soil,
and the clay that forms the has of
the rocks'; and if they wished to
form chambers surrounded by water,
they had only to make them at a
certain level, below the ground, to
obtain this result. Pliny mentions the
report of this canal; but though he
says, very properly, that the Nile is
lower than the pyramids, he does not
express any opinion respecting the
possibility of the water being admitted
round the underground chamber. The
well he speaks of is not what now
bears that name, but probably the one
in the chamber atthe end of the lower
passage; the former agreeing neither
with the measurement he gives (which
it exceeds by about 70 feet), nor with
the object for which it was supposed
to have been intended. The use of
the present well, connecting the two
passages, was, as I have already said,
for the exit of the workmen.

in going into the pyramid, I need
scarcely suggest the necessity of being
provided with candles and a lanthorn,
lucifers, and a supply of water; and
a long stick to raise a light upon,
in examining the upper part of the
rooms, may be useful. I should
also recommend a cloak, to put
on in coming out, particularly in
the evening, which is by no means a
bad time for visiting the interior. It
may be as well not to entrust it to
the care of the Arabs, when not
wanted within the pyramid, as they
are not particularly clean.

I do not presume to explain the
real object for which the pyramids
were built, but feel persuaded that
they served for tombs, and were also

' Q! the level of the water in the wells, com red with the Nile and the base of the pyra-

mid, see much curious information In the

vol. II. p. “8.

ppendlx of Colonel Howard Vyse’s book,

