 

Egypt-

from the inundation, and the un-
altered position of the sacred build-
ings. The enclosure or tea-em sur-
rounding the temple is 1000 feet long
by about 700 broad, not placed in the
centre of this area. but one third more
tothe northward; while the temple
itself lies exactly at an equal distance
from the northern and southern line
of houses. —one of the numerous in-
stances of Egyptian ain‘t-w: L
The enclosure ts of crude briclt; and
a short way to the east of the centre,
on its northern side, is a gateway of
granite and ﬁne gritstone, bearing the
name of Remeses the Great; towhom
the temple was indebted for its nu-
merous ohelisks, and the greater part
of the sculptures that adorned it.

Outside the enclosure, on the cast,
are two granite columns, apparently
unconnected with the temple. They
are 2 feet 8 inches mean diameter,
with the name of the same Pharaoh,
and have palm capitals of beautiful
style. They may have belonged to
some other ediﬁce, that stood without
the temenos of the principal temple,
like the tomb of Amasis at Sa'is, de-
scribed by Herodotus; which had
also palm-tree capitals, and stood in
the vestibule of the temenos. But
though this apparent inconsistency
may thus be explained, it is not
equally easy to account for the en-
closure not comprehending within it
the whole of the temple itself; and
the western wall shuts against the
sides of the noes. leaving the end
projecting beyond it.

from the wall of the enclosure to
the two front obelishs is 100 feet;
I50 beyond which, going towards the
seas. are fragments of columns, and
probably of two other obelisks, cover-
ing an area of 50 feet ; beyond these.
at a distance of WC feet, are several
fragments of sculptured walls, two
other obelisks, and two black statues,
extending over a space of 30 feet;
and after going 100 feet further, you
come to two other obelishs; and then
two others 86 feet beyond them; and

 

noun: l2. — rams.

 

235

again, at a distance of 164 feet, two
other large ohelislts, from which to the
noos front is 150 feet.

Though in a very ruinous con-
dition, the fragments of walls, co-
lumns, and fallen obelisIts, sum-
ciently attest the former splendour of
this building; and the number of the
latter, evidently ten, if not twelve, is
unparalleled in any Egyptian temysle.
They are all of the time of Remeses
the Great; some with only one,
others with two lines of hierogly-
phics. The columns had the lotus-
bud capital; and their appearance,
as well as the walls bearing the
ﬁgures of deities, seem to prove that
some, at least, of the obelislts stood
in courts or vestibules, foaming ap-
proaches to the trace. Among tines
figures I observed Pthah, Maut, and
Nofre-Atmoo; and on the apex of
the obelisk the king is oﬂ‘ering to, or
kneeling before, Atmoo, Horus, A0
or Djom. and Rs, who has sometimes
the additional title of Atmoo. The
obelisks vary in siae: some have a
mean diameter of about 5 feet. and
when entire may have been from 50
to 60 feet high; and those at the
lower extremity of the avenue,
farthest from the naos, measured
about 33 feet. Some of the obelishe
are of dst k , others of light red, granite,
which might appear to have a bad
eﬂ‘ect, if we did not recollect that the
Egyptians painted their monuments,
whether of granite or other stone.

The name of Remeses the Great is
seen throughout the temple. In
one place I observed that of his im-
mediate successor l‘thahmen, and on
one of the statues above mentioned
are the ovals of an unknown king.
\lr. Burton, also, found those of
Osirtasen Ill. and Tirhaka.

'l‘he sees itself was very small,
being. as before stated, only 64 feet
by 48; and it presents very few
traccsof sculpture. A cornice,and
the name of}! or the god Nilue.
at the front, a the ﬁgure of a god,
with traces of hieroglyphlcs. at the

