 

400

generally go direct to Thebes. They
may either stop at Karnak, or Lusor;
but the former is more convenient
for seeing the ruins.

For the journey across the desert,
camel-boxes with movable trays will
be found convenient, as well as a
single-poled tent, and small mats, an
umbrella lined with a dark-coloured
stuff, and gause spectacles. Colonel
Davies, in his “ Hints to Travellers”
by this route, justly considers bottled
water essential, and adds, “great
care should be taken to procure it
good, and bottles well cleaned. Sup-
plies, such as tea, sugar, wine, soups,
tongues, and any preserves, are
much' better and cheaper in India
than in Egypt; a small camp kit
with a few cooking-pots, bedding,
mosquito curtains, blankets, and some
carpets are useful in Egypt." He
considers them “ particularly so in
the quarantine at Malta, if people
like to live comfortable and economi-
cally ;” but every thing is so reason-
able there, that it is scarcely worth
the trouble and expense of taking
them from Egypt.

“ Camels, for crossing the desert
from gossayr to Ghenne (Eeneh) or
Luksor, are to be had in plenty for 1
dollar each, and donkeys at 15 pies-
tres: stirrups and a mattress (cush-
ion ?), or a dromedary saddle, is the
easiest way for a gentleman to cross;
a lady should bring a sideaaddle for
a donkey, and panniers for children;
and if not done in too great a hurry,
the desert can be crossed without in-
convenience or fatigue. But a lady
ought not to do it in less than seven
days, which should be told the camel
owners before leaving Kosseyr, that
they may take suﬁicient beans, &c.
for themselves and camels; if not
they will make it an excuse to push
on.”

He justly remarks “that it is abso-
lutely necessary to keep up deter-
mined authority with all Arabs, and
particularly with boat and camel men,

 

Bonn: 28.—t_§ossarn To m m Sect. IV.

who makeitaruleto tynd an
it. Many peeple commence vi:
thrashing them at once, but I don't
think it advisable or necessary: in-
siston their doing as youwiah,and
they very soon come into your way.”
By Arabs, itisaswelltoolnerve,
that he means Egyptian ﬂﬂs, not
Arabs oftbedesert,whom itmight
cost a man his life to strike.

“ In regard to boats,” he adds, “it
is dimcult to recommend what plan
to pursue: they are generally to be
procured at geneb, and sometimes at
Lul_tsor, and may be hired for the
tripto Cairo. If you write to that
place for one, it will cost double or
treble, but you will get a better boat.
I hired one for 1600 piastres the
month; it was clean, and ﬁtted up in
English style, with a lofty cabin,
and well suited for the purpose; but
it must be remembered, that, though
you hire by the month, you pay by
the week (by the lunar month), which
I mention that people may not be
rufﬂed if they ﬁnd different customs
in different places." The advice is
excellent; but in reality the month
should always be rated at thirty days,
and the owners of boats should not be
allowed to take this advantage of
strangers. Another piece of good
advice is, “ never to let your servant
pay the people; do it on every occa-
sion you can yourself, and you will
soon find the beneﬁt, and so will the
poor people: give half what your
servant would charge, and the three-
tingered Arab will kiss the money
and your hand with gratitude. In
regard to assistance, let every man
be his own agent, and his business
will be done to his satisfaction." If
you can ﬁnd a good boat, and eng
it by the month, it is better to live in
it while at Cairo, and the best spot
for anchoring is at Ibrahim Pasha's
garden in the island of Rods.

The Ababdelt Desert—The princi-
pal roads made by the ancients across
this desert, were those from Captos to

