 

Nubia. non-re 81.—omr rem: or moo-mu.

the deserters by the river into Upper
Ethiopie; the writerof the ﬁrst pert,
who bed the seme neme, being doubt-
less e Greek.

Besides this inscription ere some
others, written by Greeks who probe-
bly visited the piece et e leter time,
es “ Theopotnpus, the son of Pinto,”
“ Ptolemy, the son of Timostrettts,”
end others.

The grend hell is supported by
eight Osiride pillers, end to it suc-
ceed e second hell of four squere
pillers, e corridor, end the edytum,
with two side chembers. Eight
other rooms open on the grend hell,
but they are very irregulerly exce-
vnted; end some of them here lofty
benches projecting from the walls.
In the centre of the edytum is en
elter, end et the upper end ere four
stetues in relief. The dimensions of
the colossi etteched to the pillers in
the greet hell ere,— from the shoulder
to the elbow, 4 feet 6 inches; from
the elbow to the wrist 4 feet 3 inches;
from the nose to the chin, 3 inches;
the eer, 1:: inches; the nose.
shout IO inc res; the fece, ncerly

2 feet; end the totel height, without -

the cep end pedestei. 17 feet 8 inches.

The principel objects of the interior
ere the historicel subjects, releting to
the conquests of Romance ll.. re-
presented in the greet hell. A lerge
teblet, conteining the date of his first
yeer, extends over greet pert of the
north we I; end enother between the
two lest pillers on the Opposite side
of this hell, of his thirty-ﬁfth yeer,
hes been erlded long efter the temple
wes completed. The hettle scenes
on the south well ere particularly
spirited; end it will not be without
benefit to those who still edhere to
the notion thet the Egyptiens were
bleclt, to observe the distinction mein-
teined in the colour of the feces of
the Negro, Ethiopian, end eestcrn
captives, represented et Aboo-Simhel,
and to compere them with that of the
Egyptians; who ere here,es on every
other monument, of e red complexion.

 

 

 

439

not even epproeching the copper hue
of the Ethiopiens.

Rewesthegod oftbetempleend
the protector of the piece. In e niche
over the entrence is e stetue of this
deity in relief, to whom the king is
oﬁ‘ering e ﬁgure ofTruth; end he is
oneofthefourettheendoftheedy-
turn. The Theben triedelso holds e
conspicuous piece here; es well es
Kneph. Khem, Osiris, end Isis. The
totel depth of this escevetion, from
the door,is shout 200 feet, without the
colossi end slope of the fecede; end e
short distence tothe southereeome
hieroglyphic teblets on the rock, beer-
ing the dete of the thirty-eighth yur
of the eerne Remaes.

The great temple of Ahoo-Slmhel
wee formerly quite closed by the
send thet pours down from the hills
shore. The ﬁrst person who ob-
served these two interesting monu-
ments was Burckherdt; end in 18",
Belsoni, Cepteins lrby end Mengles,
end Mr. Beechey, visited them, end
resolved on cleering the entrence of
the lerger temple from the send.
After working eight hours e dey for
s whole fortnight, with the event.
best of the thermometer from 112°
to 116° Fehr. in the shede. they suc-
ceeded in geining odrnittencez. end
though the send closed it egein. their
lebours enebled others to penetrete
into it without much diilculty.

Neerly opposite Abno- Simbel is
Ferd”, e smell exceveted temple,
consisting of e hell, supported by
four columns, two side chemhers or
wings, end so edytutn. lt hes the
neme end sculptures of the successor
of Antunoph ill... end wee dedi-
ceted to Arnunre end Kneph.

Ferns, or Forms, on the west berth,
is supposed to be the Phthuris d
Pliny; end from the meny sculp.
tured blocks end columns there, it is
evident thet some encient town es.
isted on thet spot; though, judging
from the style, they eppeer to belong
to e ltomen, rether then so Egyptien,
M . n t

