 

210

It is from the dellnemcs of the
Israelites that tradition asserts the
neighbouring GebeIAttMo has received
its name; thou h the Moslems pre-
tend that its signiﬁcation, “deliver-
ance,” relates to their release from
the perils of the pilgrimage, when in
sight of this welcome mountain.
Agerood has also been allowed to
claim some connection with that re-
markable event ; and etymology mi ht
perhaps discover in it a distinct al u-
sion to the overthrow of Pharaoh‘s
chariots, whose Hebrew appellation
“Ageloot " bears some resemblance
to this modern name.

With regard to Minnie or el Mﬁk-
tala, I must observe that there is
great reason to believe it marks the
site of the ancient Mt'gdol; not only
il'om a similarity of name, but from
its position, being the point where the
road turns 06‘, from its previously
easterly course, direct to the sea;
and though the name signiﬁes “the
slaughter," and appears to mark the
spot of some later Arab battle, it must
be remembered that the Arabs are in
the constant habit of substituting
names from their own language,when-
ever they happen to trace any resem-
blance to them; an instance of which
may he found in El Gezéir(Algiers),
“ the islands,” substituted for the
ancient name Julia Ccsarea ; and in
numerous others.

The name of Keisha or Kaboom,
given to the range of mountains, and
to the Red Sea itself in this part, is
also supposed to relate to the history
of the Israelites, its meaning, “de-
struction,” referring to that of the
host of Pharaoh: though the great
antiquity of the town of Clysma sug-
gests that golsim is an Arab corrup-
tion of the old Greek name. Clysma
appears to have been a fort as well as
a town, and was perhaps the spot
where the troops destined to guard
the sluices of the canal were stationed;
and it is remarkable that the elevated
hei ht, outside the north gate of the
mogern town of Sues, is still known

some 7.-—osmo 1‘0 suns.

 

SeetII.

by the name of golsim. It was
called Castrum by Hierocles and St.
Epiphanius; and untrue (clysma) or
“scope, is first mentioned by Lucian.
It appearsto be the same asthe
Clysma Prmsidium of Ptolemy,
though he places it much farther
down the coast. His positions, how-
ever, sre not always certain; and ltis
much more probable that a garrison
would be stationed where their services
were so evidently required, than on
any other part of the coast. Besides,
we have not only the traditional name
of this eminence to guide our opinion,
but the authority of history, which
mentions the re-Opening of the canal
by Omer to golaim on the Red Sea,
for the purpose'ot‘ sending provisions
to Mecca. Abooll'eda is still more
precise in his position of Eolsim, and
leaves no room to doubt that it stood
exactly at the spot now occupied by
Suez. His words are, “ At the es-
tremity of the gulph, intervening
between Tor and Egypt was situated
the town of Kolaim, and those who go
from Egypt to Tor are wont to follow
the coast from Kolaim to Tor."
Close to it (he says in another place) is
the spot where Pharaoh was drowned.

It has given the name of " Sea of
Kolsim ” to the gulph, and appears
to have succeeded to Arsino'é, found-
ed by Ptolemy Philadelphus, so called
aher his sister, and has been itself
succeeded in turn by the modern Suez.

'rrnr sxcxatrr can“. or aastuo'i.

This ancient work, known in former
times as the canal of Hero, is now
completely ﬁlled with sand, except in
that part where it is made to supply
the modern village of Tel el Wadee,
and the neighbouring lands, for the
purposes of cultivation. Its greatest
extent, to the Tel e' Rigabeh, is about
26 miles from Belbays. The com-
mencement ol‘ the canal may be
said to be about 6 miles west of
Tel el Wadee, a modern town built
by Mohammad Ali, and at 15 miles
to the N. E. of Belh‘ys; though the

