 

326

on the west bank; but he had already
lost much of his authority, and had
great diﬂculty in collecting his re-
venues.

“ The present inhabitants of this
district,” says Mr. Hamilton, “ are
descendants of the Howéra tribe of
Arabs. This warlike race had for
several years been in the undisturbed
possession of the soil, and enjoyed,
under the Overnment of their own
shekhs, the Independent tributaries of
the pasha of Cairo, as much happi-
ness and security as has for many
centuries fallen to the lot of any of
the provinces of the Turkish empire.
They lost their independence under
their last shekh, Hammam, who with
an army, said to have consisted of
36,000 horsemen, was entirely de-
feated by Mohammed Bey." The
family still remain, but they are now
like the other peasants.

The Howara were always famed
for their skill in breeding and manag-
ing horses; the name Howaree, like
Fares, signiﬁes a “horseman,” and
is still applied to the native riding-
masters and horsebreakers of Egypt.
The Howara breed of dogs was not
less noted in Upper Egypt than that
of the horses ; some of which are still
found about Erment, Bairat, and
other places, mostly used for guard-
ing sheep; and their rough, black,
wire-haired coats, their ﬁerce eye,
their size, and their courage, in which
they so widely differ from the cow-
ardly fox-dog of Egypt, sufﬁciently
distinguish them from all other breeds
of the country. Nor have the people
the same prejudice against dogs as in
Lower Egypt; and indeed the in-
habitants of the Sit-ed have generally
much fewer scruples on this point
than other Moslems, being mostly of
the sect of Malekee, who view the
dog with more indulgent feelings.

Some of the fancies of the Mosleme
respecting what is clean and unclean
are amusingly ridiculous, and not the
least those respecting dogs. Three
of the sects consider its contact de-

some 24. —- emcee 'ro man.

 

SectIII.

ﬁles; the other, the Milekee, fears
only to touch its nose, or its hairif
wet; and tales about the testimony
of dogs and cats, against man in a
future state, are related with a gravity
proportionate to their absurdity. It
is, however, not surprising that the
dogs of Egypt, livin as they do in
the dirty streets, an feeding upon
any offal they ﬁnd, should be con-
sidered unclean; and even the rigid
Hinefee overlooks his scruples in
favour of a Kelh Roomee,a “ Greek"
or “ European dog,” when assured
that it differs in its habits from those
of his own country.

The nest town or village of any
size, after Farshoot, is Bajodra, and
beyond, at the southern extremity
of the bend of the river, is Hose, the
ancient Diospolis Parva. Here the
river takes a very long curve; and
as it runs from l_§eneh to How, its
course is south-west, so that the for-
mer stands about 9’ of latitude more
to the north than How, though
higher up the stream. A similar
deviation from its course does not
occur again, except in the vicinity of
Dayr in Nubia, and at the great
bend of the river above Dongola,
which was formerly called the new”:
or elbows of the Nile.

At How, in Coptic H6, Hou, or
Ano, are the ruins of Diaspolt's Pam.
Behind the modern town appear the
vestiges of a sandstone temple of late
date, either Ptolema‘ic or Roman;
probably the former, as I observed
on a stone amidst the mounds the
name of Ptolemy Epiphanes. Near
it appears to have been a reservoir or
lake of water, now only matked by
a depression in the ground; and
little remains of the city but the usual
mounds and heaps of broken bricks.
About a mile to the south, at the
edge of the desert, are other mounds
and the remains of buildings, of
which the most remarkable is the
tomb of one Dionysius, the son of a
certain Ptolemy, and the scribe of
king Ptolemy. It is built of hewu

