 

———.-—.— -__

Egypt. noon 1. — unmonu— 301'an — snnvams. 73

English or bed Italian, etrivesto take
Men of the unfortunate traveller,
and almost forces him to mount.
Having quickly selected one, in order
toavoida continuation of this, to a
ulcer disagreeable, and to a by-
Iander ridiculous, scene, away he is
hurried of through narrow dirty
streets, leaving his servants to bring
the luggage on asses or camels.

For a donkey he ought to pay 1
ﬂute to the Frank quarter, a native
«a resident giving about half that
sum ; and although 5 would not con-
tent these people, he should not, for
the sake of saving himself trouble,
have the folly to yield to their impor-
tnnitiee. It is by doing this that the
English lately travelling in Egypt
hve entailed so much trouble on
times who now visit the country, in-
creasing not only the expense, but
numerous annoyances; and the hotel
keepers are not the least to blame for
their encouragement of such imposi-
tions, of which they themselves now
begin to feel the bad eli‘ects.

For a camel to the hotel he should
not give more than 5 piastres ;
though, if there are numerous pas-'-
sengers, and many camels are in re-
quisition, 10 must sometimes be paid.

If he does not dislike going on
foot (provided it is dry weather), a
walk of 15 or ‘20 minutes will take
him to the hotel.

The streets through n hich he passes
are narrow and irregular, the houses
appearing as if thrown together by
chance, without plan or order; and
few have even that Oriental character
which is so interesting at Cairo. Here

and there, however, the lattice-work -

ofthe windows and a few Saracenic

 

of the Turkish quarter, he will be
surprised by their contrast with the
larger and cleaner dwellings of the
EnrOpeans, where he will readily dis-
tinguish the houses of the consuls by
the ﬂag-staﬂ's rising from their ﬂat
roofs. In the western harbour he
will also have observed some build-
ings, of a superior style, as the Pasha's
palace, and some public buildings,
which bear the stamp of Constanti-
nople, or of Frank, taste; and even
before landing he will have perceived
considerable activity in the port, from
which he may form some idea of the
improvements that have there taken
place under the rule of Mohammed Ali.

The Frank quarter stands at the
extremity of the town, farthest from
the new port ; which is in consequence
of the European vessels having for-
merly been conﬁned to the eastern
harbour, and the consuls and mer-
chants having built their houses in
that direction. It has, within the
last seven years, greatly increased in
size by the addition of the large
square ; in the centre of which stands
a small badly proportioned obelislt of
Oriental alabaster, presented to the
town by Mohammed Ali. The stone
is from a quarry in the desert opposite
Benisooef; but it is of very inferior
quality, and badly selected. having
been taken from parts of the stratum
not sulliciently compact for slabs of
large dimensions. In this square
stand the principal hotels and most of
the consulates ; and here the national
guard are drilled soon after sunrise
every Saturday morning; the regular
troops, if any in garrison, bein escr-
cised every morning. except grids].

I near the Pasha's palace on the lies-

arches give the streets a picturesque l e'teen, between the two ports.

appearance ; and if he happens to take }

2. "outs as Ausannata. .—

the longer, but moreinteresting,road The principal hotels are Rey’s, or

through the bazaars, the stranger will
be struck with many a novel and
Eastern scene.

L'llbtel d'Eumpe; Coulomb's. or
L'llt‘stel de l'Orient. The former,

But he had better 1 which till 18-“! belonged to Messrs.

visit them, after he has secured and ' Hill, is the one mostly frequented by

arranged his rooms at the hotel.

| the English.

The charges are 40

On emerging from the dingystreets . piastres a day board and lodging.

Egypt.

