 

82

08" all communication from one to the
other, two bridges being leﬂ for this
purpose, beneath which hosts and
small vessels might freely pass. As
the Heptastadium served for an aque-
duct as well as a road to the Pha-
ros, it is probable that the openings
were arched; and the mention of
these passe satisfactorily accounts
for the di erence of name applied
to the causeway by ancient writers;
some, as Strabo, calling it a mole,
and others a bridge, connecting the
Pharos with the town.

Strabo, in describing the position

of the island and causeway, says,
“ from the CanOpic mouth to Pharos
is 150 stadia. l’har as is an island of
oblong shape, close to the shore, with
which it makes a double port; for
the shore here curves into a hay,
with two projecting headlanda, be-
tween which is the island, stretching
in a parallel direction with the shore
and closing the bay. 0f the two
extreme points of the island the
easternmost is nearest to the land,
and to the promontory on that side.
The latter is called Acrolochias,
and forms a port with-a'contracted
entrance. Besides the narrowness of
its mouth, several rocks impede the
free passage into this port, some
below, others above water. which,
obstructing the waves as they roll in
from the sea, cause a dangerous surf.
At the extremity of the island is an
isolated rock, with a tower of white
stone several stories high, and wonder-
fully constructed, having the same
name as the island. ” . . . . .
“ The lowness of the coast, the absence
of all other harbours on either side,
and its numerous reefs and shoals,
pointed out the necessity of it, as a
signal to enable sailors to enter the port.
The western one, it is true, is not of
easy access, but it does not require
the same caution. It is called the
Port of Eunostus, and lies before the
artiﬁcial and closed port. 'Iirat whose
entrance is from the Pharos tower is
called the great harbour.

norm: 1. -- ALEXANDRIA — DESCRIPTION.

 

Sect. I.

“ The two ports are contiguous to
each other in the bay, and separated.
by the dyke called the Heptastadium,
which extends from the land to the
western part of the island, leaving
only two navigable passages into the
Port of Eunostus, covered by a
bridge. Indeed it was intended, not
only as a mode of communication
with the island, but also as an aque-
duct vrhen that spot was inhabited.
For at the time of the war with the
kings of Egypt, Caesar desolated it;
and since that, a few mariners alone
have lived near the tower. The great
harbour is not only well protected by
the dyke, and its natural position, but
is so deep that the largest vessels may
lie close to the steps, and it is divided
into several parts."

After the description of the Pharos
given by ancient writers, it is singular
that so great a mistake should have
been made respecting the position of
that island, and its distance from
the shore. This was owing to the
misinterpretation of the “Ar'yvrr'rou
aposoporti‘e," of Homer, and it has con-
tinued to be repeated even to the
present day. Having already had
occasion to mention and explain it,
I shall introduce what I before ob-
served on the subject, to show that
the following expression of the poet,
“the distance of the isle of Pharos
from Armor was as much as a
vessel with a fair wind could perform
in one day,” refers to the river, and
not to the coast of Egypt. For, a
very imperfect acquaintance with the
situation of tlratisland, and the nature
of the ground, on which Alexandria
is built, ought to have prevented so
erroneous a conclusion: and if we
readily account for the misconstrue-
tion of the Arymou wporaporde, of the
poet, we are surprised at the notion
which extends the river and its alluvial
deposit over the spot occupied by that
city, which was at no period within
reach of the rising Nile. And if
a certain deposit does take place in

l the harbour of Alexandria, it is very

