though it will be
aeommrythen to start very early in
themorning. Some have even visited
the pyramids of Geeseh, those of

Sahhjra, and the colossus of Mitre-
heeny, and have returned to Cairothe
same day; but this is a long day’s
work at any season The most com-
fortable plan is to sleepat the pyra-
mids,and go over to Snickers next
day, returning to Cairo that evening.
A visit to the ruined pyramid of
Ahooml'sh will require another day;
but this, though interesting to those
who have the time to spare, would
not repay the generality of travellers
for the journey.

If the traveller intends visiting the
pyramids on his way up the Nile, he
may ride over from Gust-h, and send
his boat to wait for him at Bedfe-
shayn; where he may join it, after
seeing Sskgira, and the remains of
Memphis, the same evening: but he
must take care the boat starts in time,
particularly if the wind is not fair.

5. vnuos or cause; too ovens.

Geueh itself presents nothing worth
notice; butthe traveller, if he wishes,
may see the process of Melting eggs by
artiﬁcial means in oeeaa; which has
been continued from the time of the
Pharaohs to the present day. The
Coptic name of Geeseh was Tpersioi.
It is now a mere village, with a few
cafes, ruined headers, and the wrecks
of houses, once the summer retreats
of the Memloohs and Cairenes. At
the time of the Memlooks it was for-
tiﬁed, and formed, with the Isle of
Rods, a line of defences which com-
manded or protected the approach to
the capital. Leo Africsnus calls it a
city, heautiﬂed hythe paiaemof the

 

 

 

173

Memlooks, who there retire-
ment from the bustle of and
frequented by numerous merchants
and artisans. It was also the [rest
market for sheep, brought, as he says,
from the mountains of Bares; whose
owners, the Arabs, fearing to cross
the river, sold their stock there to
agents from the city. The masks
and beautiful buildings by the river's
side are no lon to be seen at
Geeseh ; and the traveller,asheleaves
his boat, wanders amidst uneven

of rubbish, and the ill-deﬁned limits
of potters' yards, till he issues from
a breach in the crumbling Memlook
wells into the open plain. On passing
some of the villages on the way, a pic-
turesque view of the pyramids may
heresndthersengsge the eyeorthe
pencil of an artist.

C. 111le 07 Till "IAIN”.

The pyramids have been frequently
mentioned by ancient and modern
writers; but the statements of the
former, respecting their founders, are
far from satisfactory, and no conjec-
tures seem to explain the object for
which they were erected. According
to Herodotus, the founder of the
great pyramid, called by him Cheops,
wssa prince whose crimes and tyranny
rendered his name odious even to
posterity. “ He closed all the temples
and forbade the Egyptians to perform
sacrifices; after which he made them
all work for him. Some were em-
ployed in the quarries of the Arabian
hills, to cut stones, to drag them to
the river, and to put them into boats,
others being stationed on the opposite
shore to receive them, and drag them
to the Libyan hills; and the 100,0“)
men thus occupied were relieved by
an usl number every 3 months. Of
the time," he adds, “ passed in this
arduous undertaking, 10 years were
taken up with the construction of the
causeway for the transport of the
stones, — a work scarcely less won-
derful in my opinion than the pyra-
miditself; for it has 5stsdesin

t 3

