 

94

experienced the full extent of his‘

severity. Many thousands of the
citizens perished in the promiscuous
slaughter, and there were few oh-
noxious persons in Egypt who escaped
a sentence either of death or at least
of exile."

In the hollow space to the S.W. of
this column is the site of an ancient
circus. or a stadium; from which the
small fort. thrown up by the French
on the adjoining height, received the
name of the “ Circus Redoubt."
According to the plan given of it in
the great French work,_many ot' the
details of the interior were still visible,
and its general form is still distinctly
traced. Some may have hence inferred
that the gymnasium stood in this
direction; which too, according to
Strabo, seems to have been near the
Panium; and from its great extent,
there is little difﬁculty in supposing
it reached to the N. towards the
main street that ran to the Canopic
gate, while its E. side extended along
the other main street which led from
the port to the lake, and which crossed
the former at right angles, as already
stated. The hollow road to the E. of
Pompey's Pillar appears to mark the
direction of the street in this part;
and if the gymnasium was really here
and comprehended the stadium within
it, Pompey’s Pillar also stood within
its extensive limits.

Nothing which remains of Alex-
andria attests its greatness more than
the catacombs upon the coast to the
westward. The entrance to them is
close to a spot once covered with the
habitations and gardens of the town,
or suburb of the city, which, from the
neighbouring tombs, was called the
Necropolis. The extent of these
catacombs is remarkable; but the
principal inducement to visit them is
the elegance and symmetry of the
architecture in one of the cham-
bers, having a Doric entablature and
mouldings, in good Greek taste, which
is not to be met with in any other
part of Egypt.

ROUTE 1. —— ALEXANDRIA — CATAGOHBS.

 

Sect. I.

Tapers, a basket of provisions, and,
if the traveller intends to penetrate
far into them, a rope, are necessary;
and if he wishes to take measurements
of the mouldings, a ladder. He may

either by land or water. The
istance from the Frank quarter is
about 2! miles. On the way he will
pass several tombs at the water‘s
edge, some of which are below the
level of the sea, and having been
mistaken for baths have received the
name of “ Bagai di Cleopatra." If
he happens to be remaining on board
any vessel in the harbour, he will do
well to take advantage of that time to
visit them, as it will save a portion of
the distance.

Little now remains of the splendid
ediﬁces of Alexandria; and the few
columns, and traces of walls, which a
few years ago rose above the mounds,
are no longer seen. A short time
since, three granite columns stood on
what was once the main street, be-
tween the CanOpic and Necropolis
gate, nearly opposite the mask of St.
Athenasius. The base of another, on
the road towards the Rosetta Gate,
remained in December, 181], and
was then broken to pieces; and the
sites of these and others in this deso-
late area will in a few years he matter
of uncertainty, as is that of the inter-
section of the two main streets, which
twenty years ago was distinctly seen,
not very far from the Catholic con-
vent, near the Frank Square. Much
of course might be done, to ascertain
the direction of the streets, the posi-
tion of the principal buildings, and
the general plan of the ancient city,
by tracing the form of the substruc-
tions, and the sites of the numerous
arched reservoirs, that once formed a
sort of subterraneous town, and doubt-
less took their position from that of
the buildings above. But it would
be an Herculean labour to remove
the mounds that have accumulated
over them, even should they he wanted,
to till up a portion of the neighbour-
ing lake Mareotis.

