 

378

temple of Medeéaet Haboo, bears
the name of Petamunsp alone, amidst
buildings on which kings were proud
to inactibe their own. In one of the
side chambers of this tomb is the
royal name, which may possibly beof
lting Horus of the eighteenth dy-
nasty. if so, this wealthy priest
lived inthe reign of that Pharaoh;
but the style of the sculptures would
rather conﬁne his era to the later
period of the twenty-sixth dynasty.

The wealth of private individuals
who lived under this dynasty, and
immediately before the Petsian inva»
sion, was very great; nor can any one,
on visiting these tombs, doubt a fact
corroborated by the testimony of
Herodotus and other authors, who
state that Egypt was most ﬂourishing
about the reign of Amasis.

But though the labour and expense
incurred in ﬁnishing them far exceed
those of any other epoch, the execu-
tion of the sculptures charged with
ornament and fretted with the most
minute details, is far inferior to that
in vogue during the reign of the
eighteenth dynasty, when freedom of
drawing was united with simplicity
of effect. And the style of the sub-
jects in the catacombs of this last-
mentioned era excite our admitation,
no less than the skill of the artists
who designed them; while few of
those of the twenty-sixth dynasty can
be regarded with a similar satisfac-
tion, at least by the eye of an Egyp-
tian antiquary. One, however, of
these tombs, bearing the name of an
individual who lived under the second
l’samnticns, deserves to be excepted,
as the subjects there represented tend
to throw considerable light on the
manners and customs, the trades and
employments, of the Egyptians; nor
can I omit the mention of some ele-
gant and highly-finished sculptures in
the aiea of the tomb immediately
behind that of Petamunap, which I
fortunately saved from being broken
up for lime, a few years ago, by the
Turkish miners.

THEBEB. — PRIVATE Tons.

 

Sect. IV.

M ofgooraet Harem—In no-
ticing the most interesting of the other
catacombs of Thebes, I shall coas-
mence with thoaeof goof-d Marla;
whete a few have er the ravages
of time, and the still more baneful
injuries of human hands. Finding
scarcely any already open which pre-
sented sculpture worthy of a visit, 'or
which threw any light on the era of
their execution, I had several un-
covered (during my_ visit in 1827) in
hopes of satisfying my curiosity,
which, except in one instance, was but
badly repaid. I thete found the name
of king Amun-Tobnh, the cotem-
porary of Annunoph 111. Though
his nomen and prenomen had, as
usual, been carefully erased, yet,
ft om some of the subordinate parts of
the various subjects which cover its
walls, where the erasure had been
partially or entirely overlooked, I was
enabled to ascertain to whom the
ovals belonged, and consequently to
ﬁx the date of this interesting cata-
comb.

The lcing is there seated on his
throne, within a richly ornamented ca-
nopy, attended bya fun-bearer, who
also holds his sceptre. A procession
advances in four lines towards the
presence of the Pharaoh. The lower
division consists of Egyptians of the
sacerdotal and military classes, some
ladies of consequence, and young
people bringing bouquets and boughs
of trees. They have just entered the
gates of the royal court, and are pre-
ceded by a scribe, and others of the
priestly order, who do obeisance be-
fore the deputy of his majesty, as he
stands to receive them. This oﬂicer
appears to have been the person of
the tomb, and it is remarkable that be
is styled “ Royal Son," and “ Prince
of Cosh," or Ethiopia. In the second
line black “chiefs of Cosh" bring
presents of gold rings, copper, skins,
fans or umbrellas of feather-work,
and an 01:, hearing on its horns an
artiﬁcial garden and a lake of ﬁsh.
Having placed their offerings, they

