 

mnonnc'nox. xvii

These rates will be proportionately increased according to the
class of accommodation required.

The above rates include transit through Egypt, Steward’s fees,
and table, wines, &c., for ﬁrst-class passengers. Bedding, linen,
and all requisite cabin furniture, is provided in the Steamers at the
Company‘s expense, together with the attendance of experienced
male and female servants.

For large families an allowance will be made in the foregoing
rates

“ Baggage. - First-class passengers are allowed, in the Company‘s
Stealer: only, on either side of the Isthmus, 3 cast. of personal bag-
gage free of freight, and children and servants 1.} cwt. each. And
passeegers will please to take note, that the Company cannot en-
gage to take any excess of baggage over that quantity, unless
ﬂipped at Southampton three days before starting and freight paid

rem.

All baggage must be shipped on the day previous to sailing,
except carpet bags or hat boxes. — All other baggage received on
board an the day of sailing will be considered as extra baggage, and
charged freight as such.

The charge for conveyance of extra baggage, should there be
room an the vessel, will be 21. per cwt. between Sues and India,
and II. per cwt. between England and Alexandria.

Pussngers will have to pay the Egyptian Transit Company in
Egypt £3. per cwt. for conveyance of baggage through, should it
exceed, for ﬁrst-class passengers, 2 cart, and children and ser-
vants 1 mt. No package of baggage should exceed 80 lbs. weight.
The bed dimensions for a trunk or portmanteau arc, length 2 it.
8 in.-—lreadth, I it. 2 in. —depth, 1 ft. 2 in.

Every package of baggage should have the owner‘s name and
place of destination distinctly painted upon it in white letters.

Passengers taking parcels or articles of merchandise in their
baggage will incur the risk of seizure by the Customs' authorities,
and of detention for freight by the Company’s agents.

“ Passengers for Bombay.— As the Company do not book the
whole way to Bombay, it is well that passengers should know that
they will ﬁnd no diﬁculty, or inconvenience, in securing the passage
on, after leaving the Company’s ships. If they proceed by the 1st
Line (20th of every month), they have merely to pay on board the
Honourable East India Company's Steamers at Aden, for the pas-
sage from Aden to Bombay. If they proceed by the 2nd Line (3rd

