 

84

men, Josephus gives an interesting
account; but, always ready to show
the great importance of the Jews, he
forgets probability in this as in many
other instances, and informs us that
each of the seventy-two interpreters
received three talents. This, if com-
puted in Alexandrian money, amounts
to 3,1001. sterling, making a total of
298,900L; a sum which not even the
supposed muniﬁcence of a Ptolemy
can render credible; and some are
inclined, as Prideaux, to compute the
amount still higher, even at two
millions of our money.

Nor does it appear that the Ptole-
mies were always so liberally disposed,
or so scrupulous in their way of ob-
taining additions to their library;
and though they spared no expense in
sending competent persons into distant
countries to purchase books, much
tyranny and injustice were resorted
Io, when they could bring their pos-
sessors within their reach, or when
other states were generous enough to
send them an original work. All
books brought into the country were
seized, and sent to the Library; not
because forbidden, as in Italy, where
the government sees in them an enemy
to the morals of the people, or to its
own security ; but because they were
wanted by the royal collector; and,
as soon as they had been transcribed,
the copies were returned to the owners,
the originals being deposited in the
library. Ptolemy Euergetes even
went so far as to borrow the works of
Eschylus, Sophocles, and Euripides
from the Athenians, and only returned
the copies he had caused to be tran-
scribed in as beautiful a manner as
possible, presenting them, in lieu of
the original, 15 talents, or about
9906!. sterling.

Such selﬁsh and unjust measures
as these, doubtless, deserve our cen-
sure ; but we cannot refuse due praise
to the liberality of those princes in
the formation of so useful an institu-
tion: and we are surprised to ﬁnd a
sensible man like Seneca refusing

noun: 1 . —-— ALEXANDRIA — mer.

 

Sect. 1.

them the merit they deserve, and disa
approving of the praise bestowed upon
that monument of regal munilicence.
“ Some,” he says, “ may have praised
it, like Livy, who calls it a great proof
of the taste and industry of kings.
But it was attributable neither to
taste, industry, nor studious enjoy-
ment; nay, far from studious, for it
was not collected for study, but for
display." “ Seneca,” as Rollin ob-
serves, “ must have been dreadfully
out of humour, when he wrote this
misplaced censure on a work so cre-'
ditable to the taste of the Ptolemies ;”
for, even if he looked upon it as a
mere mania for collecting, which in-
creased with the increase of the col-
lection, it would be the excusable
consequence of an interest common to
all who take a pride in any favourite
object. which often accompanies,
without necessarily taking the place
of, the original motive. But Sene'ca
is not alone in attributing the motive
of its founder to a mere love of pos-
sessing the largest collection; and
whilst Vitruvius praises “ the At-
talic kings for their philological
taste'” in making the library of Per-
gamus, he considers the wish on the
part of Ptolemy to have been only ex-
cited by an envious feeling of rivalry.
Indeed, since we know that the Pto-
lemies forbade the esportation of the
papyrus, for the despicable reason of
preventing-the increase of the Perga-
mus library, we cannot deny the
selﬁshness of those princes ; and
while we regret that the envious imi-
tator should have obtained the merit
due to the originator of so valuable
an institution, we may remember that
the name parchment (Pergamena) re-
cords the cause, as well as the nature,
of this invention of Eumenes.

Of the 700,000 volumes, 400,000
appear to have been in the library of
the museum, which was in a quarter
of the city called the Bruchion; and
the remaining 800,000 in another
library, which was built long aﬂer,
and attached to the temple of Sarapis.

