 

382

exception of the priesthood, they were
at all times permi to eat those
which were not comprised among-[the
sacred animals of the country. ere
is also the performance of the litur-

ies to the mummies of the deceased.

or do the frescoes of the outer
chamber less merit our attention.
Amen themostinterestingisaparty
enterta ned at the house of the royal
scribe, who. seated with his mother,
caresses on his knee the youthful
daughter of his sovereign, to whom he
had probably been tutor. Women
dance to the sound of the Egyptian
guitar in their presence, or place be-
fore them vases of ﬂowers and pre-
cious ointment; and the guests, seated
on handsome chairs, are attended by
servants, who offer them wine in
“golden goblets,” each having pre-
viously been welcomed by the usual
ceremony of putting sweet-scented
ointment on his head. This was a
common custom ; and in another of
these tombs a servant is represented
bringing the ointment in a vase, and
puttin it on the heads of the guests,
as wel as of the master and mistress
of the house. A lotus ﬂower was
also presented to them on their ar-
rival. ‘

In the lower part of the picture, a
minstrel, seated cross-legged, accord-
ing to the custom of the East, plays
on a harp of seven strings, accompa-
nied by a guitar, and the chorus of
a vocal performer, the words of whose
song appear to be contained in eight
lines of hieroglyphics, which relate to
Amun, and to the person of the tomb,
beginning, “ I ncense, drink-offerings,
and sacriﬁces of oxen," and conclud-
ing with an address to the basilico-
grammat. Beyond these an or is
slaughtered, and two men, having cut
03‘ the head, remove the skin from
the leg and body. Servants carry
away the joints as they are separated,
the head and right fore-leg being the
ﬁrst, the other legs and the parts of
the body following in proper succes-
sion. A mendicant receives a bead

T113388. -— PRIVATE roams.

 

l

Sect. IV.

from the charity of one of the ser-
vants, who also oﬁ'ers him a bottle of
water. This gift of the head shows
how great a mistake Herodotus has
made on the sub'ect, when he says,
“ no Egyptian wi taste the had of
any species of animal." There were
no Greeks in Egypt at the time this
was painted; and the colour of the
man (for the Egyptians were careful
in distinguishing that of foreigners)
is the same as usually given to the in.
habitants of the valley of the Nile.
Indeed the head is always met with,
even in an Egyptian kitchen.

On the Opposite wall are some buf-
foons who dance to the sound of a
drum, and other subjects.

In No. 17. is a very rich assort-
ment of cases, necklaces, and other
ornamental objects, on the innermost
corner to the right (entering); and
some scribes, on the opposite wall,
take account of the cattle and posses-
sions of the deceased. A forced
passage leads to the adjoining tomb,
where, at one end of the front cham-
ber, are several interesting subjects.
as chariot—makers, sculptors, cabinet-
makers, and various trades; and at
the other, two pyramidal towers, with
the tapering staffs to which streamers
were usually attached, and with two
sitting statues in front.

On the opposite side a guest ar-
rives in his chariot at the house of his
friend, attended by six running-foot-
men, who carry his sandals, tablet, and
stool. “ He is very late," and those
who have already come to the enter-
tainment are seated in the room, list-
ening to a band of music, composed
of the harp, guitar, double-pipe, lyre,
and tambourine, accompanied by fe-
male choristers.

Near 21. and 22. are rude statues.
cut in the rock, probably very
ancient.

Behind the Christian ruins, close
to No. 28. are the remains of a
curious Greek inscription, being the
copy of a letter from the celebrated
“ Athaaasius, Archbishop of Alex-

