 

 

390‘-

Isl-Whyvvhomtheyandy

thdranouaorahadheentaughtall that
the Fu'thful were required to ltnow;
-—aad the prutiga of ages was in
favour of those holy instructors.

They objected to their children
Hogtanghtvrhdthey had not them-
advaa larnt, oe svhat vras not con-
nected with their religion, and Frank
sciences appeared to
he an abomination to the Egyptians.
Thesystetn too of detaining boys at
school was unheard of: the day-schools
of the Bus were never so hard-heart-
ed as to deprive parents of their chil-
dren beyond the hours of study; and

and ohliging them to sleep may from
home all night, horriﬁed their mo-
thers, vrho preferred cutting of? the
fore-ﬁnger of a child's right hand,
to prevent his being able to vrrite, ra-
ther than suil‘er him to be taught at
no expense in tlte Pasha's schools.
With such a feeling, the difﬁculties
encountered may easily be imagined ;
and so averse are they still to this in-
novation. that though they confess the
condition of their childten is bettered,

though they are paid by the govern:

ment instead of paying for their edu—
cation, and though children of the
poorest people may, if iridustriouS,
arrive at high and lucrative employ-
ments, yet their prejudices are insur-
mountable; and ntthout giving arty
reason, they express a blind dtslilte to
send their sons to school, and if they
possibly can, they withdraw them even
alter they have gone through half the
course of their education. The chil-
dren are clothed, fed, and receive a
monthly allowance of pay, according
to their abilities, and the class they
are in; and it is gratifying novv to see
that many hoys in Egypt, alto are
usually ignorant of every thing, read
and nriteand have become acquainted
vrith the rudiments of science. There
are drﬂ‘erent schools or colhues, be-
sides those of medicine and other
branches: l. The llorrndueht 9. The
“obtain; 3. That of AMI;

MAL LDILNIBTBATION.

 

155

and 4.the_I§ast-e'8hekh Hamlin the
Usbeké'éh.

At the ﬁrst, the boys are very young,
from three to four years old. They
begin by receiving 6 piastres a month
as pay. besides food and clothing, and
are taught to read and vrrite.

At the second they receive, on en-
tering, from 7 to 9 piasttes; when
about sixteen or seventeen years old,
It ; and if they read well, H. They
are taught the l_{_oran, literal Arabic.
geography, arithmetic, Turkish. dtc.

At the third the youngest receives 50,
others 100, and the oldest and most
advanced 250, all being regulated
according to their proﬁciency. They
learn drawing, mathematics, riding,
&c.

At the fourth the youngest has 50
piastres, the oldest l5 dollars. 800 p.
They are taught European languages,
medicine, &c., and are aﬂervvards eli-
gible to the oﬂlce of {Iii-ache.

d. d. tenant. ansttrmvaartorr, ro-
tten, arm coca-rs or source.

Matters relating to the internal ad.
ministration of the country and of the
city are settled by the rit'irdus estab-
lished at the citadel. Each is super-
intended by a president. l’olit'e cases
are decided hy the bull. ngltu, or chief
of the police, at his olllce near the
Frank tlttatter, “ho either settles tltt'lll
summarily. or enters them into the
police teport, and sends them up to the
citadel for 'udgtnettt. The sentrles
are also pofice oﬂiccrs; and minor
cases. as disputes nhout a purchase
at ashop, or other triﬂing questions.
are arranged without the patties being
taken to the police-oilice, or even to
the corps dc gunk. Europeans ata
only amenable to their console. and
cannot be runislud hy 'l'urltislt law.
in disputed cases between them and
natives, a mind commission is some-
times appornted to decide the matter,
by mutual agreement of the parties.

Questions of property, family dis-
putes, and all cases that come under

a 6

