 

136

tervals on a platform (that still exists)
in the court of the interior. It is in
this court that- the wards, or benches,
are put up for the inﬁrm admitted to
the hospital; but the music has long
ceased: and the neglect and embez-
slement of the directors would have
reduced the whole to a ruined con-
dition, had it not been for the bene-
volence of the late Sayd el Mah-
roogee; and, above all, of Ahmed
Pasha Taber, who repaired the build-
ing 9nd supplied whatever was want.-
ing. This last is recorded in an
inscription over the inner door, bear.
ing date 1248 a. 3., or 1833 A. n.

The lunaties have lately been re-
moved to another hospital, under the
superintendence of Europeans; and
the sad treatment they'bel‘ore expe-
rienced no longer continues.

In the mesh is the tomb of its
founder, who was the ﬁrst of the
I_{_alaooné'éh or §alalté'e'h, a division
of the Baharite dynasty. He died
in the year 1290 a. n. The tomb of
his son Niger Mohammed forms part
of the same mass of buildings. That
of Sultan Ealaodn is handsome; it
is on the right, as the mask is on the
left, of the passage, as you enter the
principal door of the Morostan; and,
like the mesh, it is supported on
large columns surmounted by arches,
which in the latter are of elongated
shape, and in the former slightly par.
taking of the horse-shoe fetm. Their
spandrils, and the windows above,
are ornamented with light tracery;
and the Mala-ab, or niche for prayer,
inlaid with mother-of-pearl and mo-
saic work, not unlike the Byzantine
taste, with rows of small columns
dividing it into compartments, has a
rich and curious effect.

In the vicinity are the tombs of
other monarchs of the same dynasty,
and of their predecessors, the caliphs
of Egypt, which I shall mention pre.
aently. After passing the mosh-tomb
of l_(ala06n, you come to that of
Sultan Berlgoog; which, like others

CAIRO. — ROSES-o

 

Sect. II.

of that time, consists of an open court,
with large arches at each side, one of
which, larger and deeper than the
other three, is the eastern or Mecca
end. Attached to it is the tomb of
his wife and daughter, where a ﬁne
illuminated cepy of the gown is
shown, said to be all written by the
latter, who was called the princess
Fatima (Fitmeh). Sultan Berkoolt
himself was buried in one of the
tombs of the Memlook kings, outside
the city.

The Shiréwee is another celebrated
moslt dedicated to one of the princi-
pal saints of Cairo. The Moaiud
founded between the years 1419 and
1490 a.n. is a handsome mask with
pointed arches, having slight traces
of the horse-shoe form, at, the base
of the atchivolt, like many others of
the pointed style at Cairo. It is
close to the gate called Bab Zooéy-
leh; which, with the two elegant
minarets that rise above it, is a noble
specimen of eastern architecture.
This gate was formerly the entrance
of the city on the south side, before
the quarter, now connecting it with
the citadel, was added.

Without the Bab Zooityleh, at the
junction of the four streets, is one of
the places assigned for capital punish-
ments. Here, and in the Roomaylee,
Moslem culprits are beheaded;
Christians and Jews, whose blood is
thought to deﬁle the sword, being
hanged in the Frank quarter, or at the
grated window of the Ashrafé'éh, at
the corner of a street meeting that
which runs from the Ghouée'h to the
Khan Khaléel. It was at the Bab
Zooisyleh that T oman Bay was put to
death, when taken prisoner by Sultan
Selim in 1517.

The privilege accorded to the
Moslems in this respect is not merely
an honour; it has a much more im-
portant advantage, which consists in
being put to a speedy death instead of
being left to struggle for a length of
time against the iron gratings; which,

