 

 

 

39m-

ten or ﬁfteen days.
leaving Cairo to the wages is thirty-
three days. and the whole time from
the day of leaving the hill of Arafat
to that of entering Cairo, is sixty-
seven days.

The three days of both the Eedsare
celebrated at Cairo by amusements of
various kinds; the guns of the cita-
del during that time being ﬁred at
every hour of prayer, ﬁve times each
day. The festival of the Bed e’ Da-
héiih is intended to commemorate the
sacriﬁce of Abraham when he offered
a ram in lieu of his son; though the
Modems believe that sort to have been
Ismail; in which they did‘er from the
Jews and Christians.

The opening of the canal at Old
Cairo is also a ceremony of great im-
portance, and looked upon with feel-
ings of great rejoicing, as the bar-
binger of the blessings annually be-
stowed upon the country by the Nile.
The time ﬁxed for cutting the dam,
that closes its mouth, depends of
course on the height of the river, but
is generally about the IOth of August.

The ceremony is performed in the
morning by the Governor of Cairo,
or by the Pasha's deputy. The whole
night before this, the booths on the
shore, and the boats on the river, are
crowded with people ; who enjoy
themselves by witnessing or joining
the numerous festive groups, while
ﬁreworks and various amusements
enliven the scene.

Towards morning, the greater part
either retire to some home to rest, or
wrap themselves up in a cloak, and
sleep on board the boots, or upon the
banks in the open air. About eight
o'clock a. st. the Governor, accom-
panied by troops and his attendants,
arrives; and on giving a signal.sevcral
peasants cut the dam with hoes. and
the water rushes into the bed of the
canal. l n the middle of the dam is
a pillar of earth, called Arooset e'
Neel, “ the bride of the Nile." which
a tradition pretends to have been sub-
stituted by the humanity of Amer for

FESTIVALS.
The period from '

 

149

the virgin previously sacriﬁced every
year by the Christians to the river
god I While the water is rushing into
the canal, the Governor throws in a
few para pieces, to be scrambled for
by boys, who stand in its bed, ex-
pecting these proofs of Turkish muni-
ﬁcence; which, though 900 go to an
English shilling (and this is a far
larger sum than is sctamblcd for
on the occasion), are the only in-
stance of money given gratis by the
Government to the people, from one
end of the year to the other. it is
amusing to see the clever way in
which some of the boys carry oﬂ'tbeae
little prizes, the tricks they play each
other, and their quickness in diving
into the water; which threatens to
carry them oil', as it rushes from the
openings of the dam. As soon as
snllicient water has entered it, boats
full of people ascend the canal, and
the crowds gradually disperse. as the
Governor and the troops withdraw
from the busy scene.

This was formerly a very pretty
sight, and was kept up with a spitit
unknown in these days of increased
cares and diminished incomes. The
old Turkish costume too, the variety
in the dresses of the troops. and the
Oriental character that pervaded the
whole assemblage in former times,
tended not a little to increase the
interest of the festival ; but the pomp
of those days has yielded to a tame.
ness, vtith which every one, who
twenty or ﬁfteen years ago witnessed
this and other ceremonies of Cairo,
cannot fail to be struck.

The story of the virgin annually
sacriﬁced to the river shows how
much reliance is to be placed on tra-
dition, or even on the authority of
Arab wtiters ; for credulity revolts at
the idea of a human sacriﬁce in a
Christian country. so long under the
government of the Romans. The in-
vention of a similar fable discovers
the ignorance, as well as the malicious-
ness, of its authors. who probably lived

| long after the time of Amer.and who

