 

114 more 6. — ALEXANDRIA r0 ATFEH AND OAmo. Sect. I.

considerable in the volume of its
water, nor less celebrated than the
other two, and was called the Seben-
nytic branch; and fu om it two others,
the Saitic and Mendesian, were de-
rived, emptying themselves into the
sea by two distinct mouths.

After passing the palace of Shoobra,
the distinct appearance of the numer-
ous minarets of Cairo announces to
the traveller his approach to the
Egyptian capital, and he soon enters
a crowd of boats before the Custom-
honse of Boolalg.

Boolélg, the port of Cairo, con-
tained, in 1833, apopulation of about
5000 souls. It formerly stood on an
island, where Macrisi says sugar-cane
was cultivated; and the old channel
which passed between it and Cairo
may still be traced in parts, particularly
to the northward, about half-way from
the Shoohra road. The ﬁlling up of
this channel has removed Cairo farther
from the Nile, and has given to Boo-
1615 the rank and advantages of a
port. Here the duties on exports and
imports to and from Alexandria are
levied; those on goods from Upper
Egypt being received at the port of
Musr el Ateelteh (Old Cairo); and
the whole are farmed by some wealthy
Copt or Armenian merchant. 12
per cent. is in like manner exacted at
Asouan on all goods entering Egypt
from Ethiopia. All merchandise
which has not passed the custom-

‘houses of Old Cairo or Boolélg, are
stopped at the gates of Cairo, as at
the barrier-cs of Paris and other
French towns; and the Egyptians
have to thank the French for this
silly and oppressive mode of taxation.

But the revival of the new treaty
has once more freed all European
imports, after they have once paid the
5 per cent, from further duties in the
interior; and those levied at Boolalt
and Old Cairo are conﬁned to the
productions of the country. The
traveller may therefme console him-
self with the feeling that he is not
amenable to the scrutiny of the cus-

 

tom house of Boolak. or any other
place after leaving Alexandria; and
if any obstruction is oﬂ'ered, he should
immediately represent it to the con-
sulate, and require the punishment of
the offenders.

At Boolalg is the palace of Ismail
Pasha, who was killed in the pro-
vince of Shandy, little more than 20
years ago. He had ventured with a
small suite of about 50 persons into
the heart of the country, and had
ordered a considerable number of
Blacks to be levied by the chief, Me-
lek Nimr, for the service of his father
Mohammed Ali, within the short
space of 3 days: and on the Ethio-
pian requesting a longer period, he
struck him on the mouth with his
pipe, adding insult to the blow. The
wily Nimr dissembled his feelings,
and by pretended respect and con-
cern for the comfort of so distin-
guished a guest, engaged the young
Pasha to pass the night on shore;
when preparations were speedily made
for satiating his revenge. A large
quantity of reeds were collected about
the house, on pretence of feeding the
camels; and in the dead of the
night, surrounded by ﬂames, and a
countless host of furious Ethiopians,
the Pasha and his party were over-
whelmed without the possibility of
resistance or escape.

Many other palaces and country
houses are seen in the vicinity, and
Mohammed Ali has expressed a wish
that each of the principal grandees
should elect a [gear (or villa) on the
plain beteen Boolzilg and Shoobra, as
well as a house at Cairo; with the
double motive of ﬁxing their property
in the country, and of displaying to
foreign visiteis the riches they have
derived from his bounty, and the pros-
perous state of the country he rules.
On one of the mounds on the N. E.
side of Boom; is an observatory, call-
ed Bayt e’ liussud.

On arriving at 130015;. the travel-
ler had better engage a camel, or more,
according to the quantity of his lug-

