 

228

but few so beautiful. Besides the
unusual mode of sculpturing granite
in relief, the size of some of the hiero-
glyphics is remarkable, being no less
than 14 inches long, and all wrought
with great care. The cornices varied
in diﬂ’erent parts of the building; and
one, perhaps of the wall of the also!
itself, has the heads of Isis surmount-
ed by a shrine alternating with the
oval of the king, in which, however, the
hieroglyphics have not been inserted.

On the lower compartment of the
walla, in this part of the temple, were
the not uncommon ﬁgures of the god
Nilus in procession, bearing vases and
emblems. Between each are water
plants, and they have a cluster of
those of the upper and of the lower
country, alternately on their heads;
emblematic of the nature of the river,
as the position of this deity at the base
of the walls denoted the beneﬁts de-
rived from the Nile — the foundation
and support of the whole of Egypt.
Not far from this are the capitals of
large columns, in the form of Isis’
heads, bearing a shrine, like those of
Benders. Though inferior in site,
they excel them in the Quality of the
materials, being granite instead of
sandstone.

There appears to be a very great
variety in the sculptures, which mostly
represent offerings to Isis and the
contemplar deities, as in other Pto-
lemaic buildings; and in one place
the hawk-headed Hor-Hat conducts
the lting into the presence of the god-
dess of the temple. But the battle
scenes and grand religious processions
of old times are wanting here, as in
other temples of s Ptolemaic and
Roman epoch ; and though the sculp-
tures are rich and highly ﬁnished,
they are deﬁcient in the elegance of a
Pharaonic age,——the fault of all Greco-
Egyptian sculpture, and one which
strikes every eye accustomed to mo-
numents erected before the decadence
of art in Egypt.

The modern village stands to the
N. W., a little beyond the enclosure

of thetestcaos,and nesritisalakei

30m ll.—camo 'ro Damn-n.

 

Sect. II.

containing water all the year, except
after unusually low inundations,
which was probably once attached to
the temple, like those of Karnak and
other places.

After ﬁnishing my examination of
these ruins, I had the satisfaction of
shooting the great enemy of the ril-
lage, a large wolf, which in broad
daylight was prowling about the
ﬁeld, that now occupies patt of the
enclosure of the temple. It had been
a great annoyance to the people, and
had been in the habit of entering the
village at night, and carrying of
sheep, poultry, and whatever it could
ﬁnd; so that its death caused great
joy among those who had suffered
from its unwelcome visits.

Inland from Bebayt el Hagar is Be-
nobb, which occupies the site of 0m-
phis, butas far as I could learn, with-
out any stone remains, or any other
indication of the ancient town beyond
its mounds.

Mansoéra is one of the largest
towns of the Delta, with bazaars,
several masks, and a government pa-
lace, and is one of the most flourish-
ing in this part of Egypt. It was
founded by Melelt el Kamel in 122],
as Aboolfeda states, at the time of the
siege of Damietta, to serve as a point
d‘appui, and was called Monsoon,
“ the Victorious," from his defeat of
the Crusaders in that spot, at the
time the city was building. It was
there that Louis IX. was imprisoned,
after his disastrous retreat, and cap-
ture, in 1250 It is famous for its
manufacture of a sort of crepe called
Mordyrheh ; sail-cloth, and other cot-
ton and linen stuﬂ‘s, common to the
large towns of the Delta, are also
made there. In size it holds the sisth
place among the provincial towns of
Egypt, after Osioot. the capital of the
Saeed, Mahallet-el-Kebeer, Alexan-
dria, Damietta, and Menoof.

Mansoota has no ruins, and is not
supposed to occupy the site of any an-
cient city. On the N. side of it is the
entrance to the canal of Menaaleh or
Ashmoon. There is nothing worthy

