 

 

Egypt-

venient street; which would have the
additional advantage of freeing the
houses on its banks from the noxious
vapours that rise, when the water has
retired, and left a bed of liquid mud.

2. G A?“

Some of the gates of Cairo are well
worthy of a visit. The most remark-
able are the Bab e’ Nusr, “ Gate of
Victory;" the Babel Fotooh, “ Gate
of Conquest 5" and the Bab Zooayleh
(already mentioned), in the interior of
the city. The ﬁrst opens towards the
desert and the tombs, on the east side.
and is that by which the Hag. or “ pil-
grims," go in procession; when,taking
the corerin off the Prophet‘s tomb,
they leave 'ro for the pilgrimage to
Mecca.

y. armour-nu tit estao.

Cairo itself presents no remains of
ancient times except columns, blocks
of stone used as thresholds of doors,
and ftagments brought from Helio-
polis, Memphis, or other places; and
few are found with sculpture or
hieroglyphics. The most remarkable
are a column of a mask in the Berb
e’ Toorgema'n, near the Soog e‘ Zttllut,
with the names of Amenoph ll L, of
Pthahmen, the son and successor of
Remeses the Great, and of Osirei
"L, the fourth successor of that con-
queror; a stone at Joseph's Hall ; the
threshold of the Ogdlet el Balthar,
near the Hamsowee, with the name of
Psamaticus; two or three in and near
the Frank quarter; one at the Mer-
goésh; another with the name of
Aprics, at a gateway opposite Ahmed
Pasha Taber's palace behind the Us-
hekéiih; the capital ofa column with
the name of Horus, in the Déli e'
Bernak ; and a few others. But they
are of little interest, from our not
knowing the place or building whence
they came. Nor is any thing found
outside the town. near the walls. ex-
cept the tanks and grottoes of (3er
e' Jooshee.

announce — POPULATION.

147

3. POPULATION OI CAIIO.

Cairo is of irregular form: about
two miles in length, by about half that
in breadth. The population has been
variously stated by diti‘erent writers.
It appears to he now reduced from
300,000 to about 200,000 souls. and
the number of the inhabitants of Egypt
is gradually decreasing throughout the
country. Cairo is supposed to con-
tain 30,000 inhabited houses; and of
the population of 900,003. about
121,000 are Moslems, 60,000 00th
4,000 Jews, 8,500 Franks and G reeks,
2,000 Armenians, and 4,500 Roman
Catholic Copts, Greeks, and Arme-
mans.

It were well if the population of
dogs decreased in the same pt eportion
as the inhabitants of Cairo: a smaller
number would sutiice for all the pur.
poses for which they are useful, and
the annoyance of these barking plagues
might be diminished to great advan-
tage. Their habits are strange: they
consist of a number of small republics,
each having its own district, deter-
mined by a frontier line, respected
equally by itself and its neighbours;
and woe to the dog who dares to ven-
ture across it at night, either for
plunder, curiosity, or a love adren-
ture. lie is chased with all the fury
of the offended patty, whose tenitory
he has invaded; but if lucky enough
to escape to his own frontier unhurt,
he immediately turns round with the
conﬁdence of right, deﬁes his pursuera
to continue the chase, and, supported
by his assembled friends, joins with
them in barking deﬁance at any fur-
ther hostility. Egypt is therefore net
the country for an European
unaccustomed to such estate of canine
society: and I remember hearingof
a native servant who had been sent
his Frank master to walk out a fa-
vourite pointer, running home in tears
with the hind leg of the mangled dog,
being the only part he could rescue
from the fierce attacks of a a hole tribe
of “automate cases." This he did

a 2

