 

840

most splendid, should be the last
visited by the stranger, who will then
be able to appreciate the smaller
monuments of the western bank, the
“ Lib an suburb of Thebes," which
included the extensive'quarter of the
Memnonia, and reached to the small
temple of Adrian on the west, and,
in the opposite direction, as far as
the eastern tombs of its immense
cemetery.

DESCRIPTION

1. rmru-rsucs s'r osn goéansn.

, To commence with the ruins near-
est the river; the ﬁrst object worthy
of notice is the small temple-palace
at Old E061 neh (Goorna), dedi-
cated to Amun, the Theban Jupiter,
by Osirei, and completed by his son
Remotes 1]., the supposed Sesostris
of the Greeks. It is sometimes
called I_{asr e‘ Rubayk.

Its plan evinces the usual symme-
trophobia of Egyptian monuments,
but it presents a marked deviation
from the ordinary distribution of the
parts. The entrance leads through
a pylhné, or pylon, heat ing, in addition
to the name of the founder, that of Re-
meses 11L, beyond which is a dromos
of 128 feet, whose mutilated sphinxes
are scarcely traceable amidst the
mounds and ruins of Arab hovels.
A second pylon terminates this,
and commences a second dromos of
nearly similar length, extending to
the colonnade, or corridor, in front
of the temple, whose columns, of one
of the oldest Egyptian orders, are
crowned by an abacus, which appears
to unite the stalks of water-plants
that compose the shaft and capital.

Of the intercolumniations of these
ten columns three only agree in
breadth, and a similar discrepancy is
observed in the doorways which form
the three entrances to the building.
The temple itself presents a central
hall, about 57 feet in length, sup-
ported by six columns, having on
either side three small chambers, one

 

Sect. N.

0? mass.

of which leads to a lateral hall, and
the opposite one to a

epen court on the east side. Upon
the upper end of the hall open ﬁve
other chambers, the centre one of
which leads to a large room, sup-
ported by four square pillars, beyond
which was the sanctuary itself: but
the north end of this temple is in too
dilapidated a state to enable us to
make an accurate restoration of its
innermost chambers. The lateral
hall on the west, which belonged to
the palace of the king, is supported
by two columns, and leads to three
other rooms, behind which are the
vestiges of other apartments; and on
the east side, besides a large hypn-
thral court, were several similar cham-
bers, extending also to the northern
extremity of its precincts. On the
anchitrare, over the corridor, is the
dedication of Remeses 11.. to whom,
in his character of Phrah (Pharaoh),
or the Sun, under the symbolic form
of a hawk, Amunre is presenting the
emblem of life. Therein, after the
usual titles of the king, we are told
that “ Remeses, the beloved of Amun,
has dedicated this work to his father
Amunre, king of the gods, having
made additions for him to the temple
of his father, the king (fostered by
Re and Truth), the Son of the Sun
(Osirei).“ The whole of this part
of the building bears the name of
Remeses IL, though his father is
represented in some of the sculptures
as taking part in the religious cere-
monies, and assisting in making oﬂ‘er-
ings to the deities of the temple he
had founded.

On the north-west side of the inner
wall of this corridor, the arks, or
shrines of Queen Ames-Nofriare, (or
T-Nofriare), and of Osirei, are borne
each by twelve priests, in the “ pro-
cession of shrines," attended by a
fanobearer and high-priest, to the
god of the temple; and in a small"
tablet added at a later period, the
king Pthah-se-pthah is represented
in presence of Amunre, Ames-No-

