 

 

 

Egypt. noun 14. — CAIRO 10 ms tumou mas.

elllagbra isontheroad to Séewah
horn the Nile, and is three days
from the Natl-on lakes. The name
heerdee, or burdee, is also applied to
tin papyrus; but that of the Natron
lakes is a common bulrudt, or
who

The aspect of the Natron valley is
no less gloomy from the sands that
have invaded it, than from the cha-
racter of the few plants it produces.
No trees, no esculeut vegetables, re-
lieve the monotony of the scene, or
reward the labour of him who at-
tempts to rear them: the palm, which
seems to belong to every district of
Egypt where water can be found, is
here a stunted bush; and no attempt
has been successful to enable it
to attain the height or character of a
tree. The few that are found between
Zakee! and Dayr Baramoés, and to
thaeast of Dayr Macarius, seem only
to rise above the earth to bear witness
to the barrenness of the salt and sandy
soil, which condemns them to am
ciate with its other stunted produc-
tions. These too, which we of the
most humble species common to
sandy distticts, are smaller than in
other deserts: the tatnarislt is even
rare here, and nothing appears to
ﬂourish except the mesembrian-
themttm attd bulrUsht-s. These last

w both in the water, and at a

istance from the lakes, amidst the
sand-hills of the plain. In the water
they reach the height of lo feet.

The animals that frequent this dis.
trict are the gazelle, bul_5_l5ar el Wahsh
(“ wild cow"), or antelope drfussa, the
jerboa, fox, and others common to
the Libyan desert; and some tra-
Vellers tnention the stag; though I
could not ﬁnd any one she had seen
or even heard of it, either in the
“'a'dee Natroén or the adjacent
valley. I do not, howeter, allirtn
that it has not been seen there: the
sculptures of the aucteut Egyptians
represent it as an animal of their
country, and the horns are sometimes
soldintbestreetsofCairo,asrarities

 

l

245

brought by the Arabs, and strangelymis
called by the sellers “ lishes' bones."

Water-fowl abound; ducks are in
great numbers, and water-hens, jack-'-
snipes, ssndpipers. and other birds
common to the lakes and ponds of
Egypt, frequent the shores of the
Natron lakes.

The length of the Wadee Natmon
is about 22 miles, its breadth,reckon-
ing from the slope of the low hills
that surround it, 5; in the broadest
part; though the actual level plain is
not more than two, and is here and
there studded with isolated hills, and
banks of rock covered with sand. The
ascent from it towards the Baht el
Fargh is very gradual. but the descent
to this last is rapid, more so even titan
on the eastern side of the Natron val-
ley; the Bahr el Fargh is, however,
less deep than its Eastern neighbour,
though it surpasses it both it: length
and breadth. The hills that separate
the two valleys, as well as the low banks
that form the undulating ground.“
the Bahr el Pugh, ate covered Wlllt
rounded silicious pebbles, with here
and there pieces of petrified wood
and coarse gritstnne, lying amidst
loose sand, the rocks below bein
a coarse sandstone. These agati
woods are mostly palms, a knotted
wood, apparently of a thorny kind,
and a jointed stetn resembling a cane, '
or a solid bamboo, precisely the
same that are found on the opposite
side of the Nile, at the back of the
Moltuttum range behind Cairo. The
pebbles and woods have probably
been once intbedded in a friable layer
of sandstone, which, hating been de-
composed and carried oti' by the aind,
has left these heavier bodies upon the
surface of the stratum nest beneath it;
while its lighter pattitles have con-
tributed not a little to increase the
quantity of sand itt these districts:
and, indeed, the rock immediately
below is of a texture little more com-
pact than that which I suppose to
have been thus removed.

Tua Basia st. Fason. —Tlta

ss 3

