 

8m

attractions for those who are not in-
terest-d in hieroglyphics; and who
will be probably satisﬁed with the
tombs ofthe kings, of Abdel ﬂoor-
Ieh. and the Assess“: Among the
most distinguished names in the se-
pulchres of the Queens are those of
Amunmeigor Amuu-tmei. the dangh.
ter of Amunoph I. ; of Taia, wife of
the third Amunoph; of the favourite
daughter of Remeses IL; and of the
consort of Remescs V. In another
appears the name of the third Rev
mescs, but that of his queen is not
met with. They have all suﬂ‘ered
from the edicts of tire, and little can
be satisfactorily traced of their sculp-
tures. except in that of Queen Taia.

It is not improbable, from the hiero-
glyphics on the jamb of the inner

oor of this tomb, that these are the
burying-places of the Pallacides, or
Pellices Josis, mentioned by Strabo
and Diodorus; and the distance of
ten stadia from these “ﬁrst" or
westernmost tombs to the sepulchre
of Osymandyas, agrees with that f t om
the supposed Memnonium to this
valley. The mummies of their ori-
ginal possessors must have suﬁ‘ered in
the general conﬂagration, which re-
duced to ashes the contents of most of
the tombs in this and the adjacent
valley of Dayr el Medeench ; and the
bodies of inferior persons and of
Greeks, less carefully einbalmed,have
occupied at a subsequent period the
vacant burial-places of their royal
predecessors. (For the Pallacides, See
my Ancient Egyptians, Vol. iv. p. 203.)

8. out“ roams.

At the opposite or eastern es-
tremity of this valley, are several
tablets of the ﬁrst Amunoph, and
other monarchs of the 18th and
and 19th dynasties; and from hence
a short path leads over the hills to
the secluded valley of Dayr el Me-
deeneh, behind the Emmet-Mur-
raee. Here several tombs of the early
date of the same AmunoPh, which
claim the attention of the chronologer

rum—Darn BL mm.

 

Sect. IV.

rather than the admiration of the
traveller, who seeks elegant designs
or interesting sculptures, extend
along the brow of the north-west
hill; and a series of pits and
crude-brick chambers occupy the
space between these. and the brick
enclosure of a Ptolemaiic temple to
the east. Among the most remark-
able ol‘ these tombs is one containing
the members of Amunopb’s family,
and some of his predecessors; and
another, whose crude-brick roof and
niche, bearing the name of the same
Pharaoh, prove the existence of the
arch at the rereateperiod of). c. 1540.
I may also mention a eradebrr'd
pymasid of an early epoch; and a
tomb, under the western rock, which
offers to the curiosity of chronologers
the names of three successive ltin ,
and their predecessor Amonoph ﬁt,
seated with his bloc! queen.

The deity who presided over this
valley, and the mountain behind it,
was Athor, " the guardian of the
west 3" and many of the tombs have
a statue of the cow, which was sacred
to her, whose head and breast project
in high relief from their innermost wall.

9. narn m. urnscxcn.

The small temﬂe to the east, called
Dayr e1 Mada-Itch. ft om having been the
abode of the earl y Christians, was erect-
ed by Ptolemy Philopator. It mea-
sures 60 feet by 33. Being left unli-
nished, it was completed by Physcon, or
Energetes I 1., who added the sculp-
tures to the walls of the interior, and
part of the architectural details of the
portico; the pylon in front bearing
the name of Dionysus. The vesti-
bule is ornamented with two columns,
supporting the roof, but it is unsculp-
tured. The corridor is separated from
this last by intercolumnar screens,
uniting, on either side of its entrance,
one column to a pilaster surmounted
by the head of Athor. On the east
wall of this corridor or pronaos,
Ptolemy l’hilometor, followed by
“ his brother, the god," Physcon, and

