 

280

part of Egypt is the method of -
rying more clearly shown. The ines
traced on the roof, marking the size
and division of each set of blocks,
were probably intended to show the
number hewn by particular workmen.
Instances of this occur in other places,
from which we may infer that, in
cases where the masons worked for
hire, this account of the number of
stones they had cut served to prove
their claims for payment; and when
condemned as a punishment to the
quarries, it was in like manner a re-
cord of the progress of their task;
criminals being frequently obliged to
hew a ﬁxed number of stones accord-
ing to their oii'ence. The mountain
of Mignrsh still continues to supply
stone for the use of the metropolis, as
it once did for Memphis and its vici-
nity; and the ﬂoors of the houses of
Cairo continue to be paved with ﬂags
of the same magnesian limestone
which the Egyptian masons employed
4000 years ago.

The occasional views over the plain,
the Nile, and the several pyramids on
the low Libyan hills beyond the river,
which appear through openings in the
quarries, as you wander through them,
have a curious and pleasing effect;
and on looking towards the village of
Migarah, you perceive on the left a
causeway or inclined road, leading
towards the river, by which the stones
were probably conveyed to the Nile.

Helsoéa, a village on the east bank,
is known as having been the ﬁrst
place where the Arabs made a Nile-
meter, under the caliphate of Abd el
Melek, about the year 700 a. n. It
was built by Abd el Aaeea, the bro-
ther of the caliph; but being found
not to answer there, a new one was
made by Soolayman, his second suc-
cessor, about 16 years afterwards, at
the Isle of Roda, where it has con-
tinued ever since. Aboolfeds speaks
of Helwﬁn as a very delightful vil-
lage, and it was perhaps from this
that it obtained its name, Helwa
signifying “sweet ;" though, as Nor-

ROUTE 20. — omo T0 anmsooﬁr.

 

Sect. III.
den observes, it nothing
more to recommen it on this score

than its opposite neighbour. Nearly
opposite Helwin, on the W. bank,
and a little way from the shore, is
Bedreshayn; and 1} mile to the
westward is Mitrahenny, the site of
Memphis. Its lofty mounds may be
seen from the river, halfway between
the village of Sakkera and the Nile;
and about 4 miles farther up the
stream, you pass Shobult, and the py-
ramids of Dashéor, 4 miles inland to
the right. About 2 miles to the west-
ward of Masghdon, is el Kafr, a
small village, from which on of the
principal roads leads to the Fyo6m,
across the desert. (See Route XVI.)

In this neighbourhood, probably
near Dashoor, were “ the city of
Acanthns, the temple of Osiris, and
the grove of Thebaic gum-producing
Acanthus," mentioned by Strabo;
which last may be traced in the many
groves of that tree (the sent, or
Acacia Nilotica), which still grow
there, at the edge of the cultivated
land. The town of Acantbus was,
according to Diodorus, 120 stadia, or
15 u. r. from Memphis, equal to 18
or nearly 14 English miles, which, 1f
comet, would place it much farther
south, to the westward of Kafr el
Iyét; though it is generally supposed
to have stood near Dashéor.

In the hills near El Kafr, are some
small tombs, not worth visiting.

0n the same bank, and near Kafr
el Iyat, at the extremity of a large
bend of the river, is, as I suppose,
the site of Menes' Dyke. (See above,
Section II. Excursion 4. page 208.)

From this spot are descried the
two ruined pyramids of Lisht, built
of small blocks of limestone; which
were probably once covered with an
exterior coating of larger stones.

Three miles to the N. W. is a coni-
cal hill resembling a pyramid. It is,
however, merely a rock, with no
traces of masonry; and in this part
of the low Libyan chain are a great
abundance of fossils, particularly

