 

xx INTRODUCTION.

damage done by the passengers to the apartments or furniture is to
be made good by them before pratique.

3. Passengers are not to be permitted to enter other apartments;
nor can they be allowed to receive visitors except at the Polatorio
of the lazaretto, and that only during ofﬁce hours; nor are they to
trespass the limits assigned to them by the captain of the lazaretto.

4. Passengers must pay a strict attention to all the instructions
they may receive from the captain of the lazaretto, and from the
health guardians, and particularly in every point that regards their
baggage, clothes, &c., being properly aired and handled during the
period of their quarantine, and their quarantine will only com-
mence to reckon from the day on which all their baggage, clothes,
&c. have been duly opened and handled.

5. All letters and parcels, or other eli‘ects brought by passengers,
must be given up, in order that they may be fumigated or de-
pnrated separately from them as the occasion may require.

6. All cases of sickness must be reported immediately to the
captain of 'the lazaretto, and all persons sick are to be visited im-
mediately by the physician to the lazaretto, 'after which olcial
visit passengers are at liberty to avail themselves of any medical
attendance they think proper.

7. Passengers are to pay the government fee for the guardians
employed to attend them, for the number of days of their quarantine,
at the following rates: viz. at ls. 3d. per day for the guardian who
attends one passenger; and at 2s. 6d. per day for each guardian who
attends more than one passenger. They are to victnal the guar-
dian or guardians during their quarantine, or to pay to each guar-
dian an allowance of 7d. per day in lieu thereof. It is to be clearly
understood that the guardians are employed solely for quarantine
purposes, and they are strictly prohibited to interfere in any other
service whilst they attend passengers.

8. The oﬁce hours at the lazaretto are from 8 an. to 12, and
from 2 2.x. to 5 daily; and all letters sent to the fumigating room
before 9 ans. daily will be delivered in Valetta at 10, and those sent
before 3 will be delivered in Valetta at 4 ms. by the letter messenger,
who is entitled to receive from the passengers 1d. for each note,
parcel, or letter, as a remuneration for his trouble and for boat-
hire.

9. A daily report of all circumstances is to be made by the captain
of the lazaretto to the superintendent of quarantine and marine
police.

E. Banana,
Superintendent of Quarantine and Marine Police.

