 

110

now long and irregular, we may con-
clude that it has since errcroached on
part of the teraeaos or sacred enclo-
sure, where the temple of Minerva
and the tombs of the Suite kings
stood. The site of the temple ap-
pears to have been in the low open
space to the W., and parts of the
wall of its Metros may be traced on
two sides, which was about 720 feet
in breadth, or a little more than that
around the temple of Tania. To the
E. of it are mounds, with remains
of crude briclt houses, the walls of
which are partially standing, and here
and there bear evident signs of having
been burnt. This part has received
the name of “e1 gala," “the citadel,”
from its being higher than the rest,
and from the appearance of two mas-
sive buildings at the upper and lower
end, which seem to have been in-
tended for defence. It is not impos-
sible that this was the royal palace.
Below it to the S. is a low space,
now cultivated, and nearly on the
same level as the area where I sup-
pose the temple to have stood.

The water of the lake is used for
irrigating this spot, but it is generally
dried up from the end of May until
the nest inundation ﬁlls the canals.
On its banks, particularly at the
western extremity, grow numerous
reeds, and when full of water it is
frequented by wild ducks and other
water fowl, now the only inhabitants
of ancient Sal's.

On a low mound, between 800
and 900 feet from the N. E. corner
of the walls, beyond a large modern
canal, are a bloelt of granite and part
of a sarcophagus; to the S. is an-
other mound, with a Sheltlr's tomb;
and beyond this are the ruins of
houses. They are distant about IOOO
feet from the walls of the large enclo-
sure, and are dorrbtles's the remains
of the ancient town, the S. extremity
of which is occupied by the present
village. Here too are some ancient
tombs.

There are no remains of sculp-

 

aon'ra '6. —ar.exarrnau so mean arm cnao. Sect. I.

ture amidst the modern or ancient
houses, except fragments in the two
moslts, and at the door of a house;
which last has the name of king
Psamaticus I[., the goddess Neith,
and the town of See, or Sais.

Sais was a city of great importance,
particularly during the reigns of the
Suite kings, who ruled Egypt about
150 years, until the Persian invasion
under Carnbyses; and some claim
for it the honour of having been the
parent of a colony, which founded
the city of Athens in 1556 a. c., and
introduced the worship of Minerva on
the shores of Greece.

At Sa’is were the sepulchres of all
the kings of Egypt, natives of the
Suite name. They stood in the tense-
aos, or sacred enclosure, of the tem-
ple of Minerva; and it was here that
the unfortunate Apries and his rival
Arnasis were bath buried. The
tomb of Apries “as near the temple,
on the left, entering the temerros:
that of Amasis stood farther from the
temple than those of Apries and his
predecessors, in the vestibule of this
enclosure. It consisted of a large
stone chamber, adorned with columns
in imitation of palm trees, and other
ornaments, within which was an (iso-
lated) stone receptacle, with double
doors (at each end), containing the
sarcophagus. It was from this tomb
that Cambyses is said to have taken
the body of Amasis; which, after he
had scourged and insulted it, he or-
dered to be burnt, though the Egyp-
tians assured Herodotus that the
body of some other person had been
substituted instead of the king's.
“ They also show," continues the
historian, “the sepulchre of him
(Osiris) whom I do not think it
right here to mention. It stands in
the sacred enclosure, behind the tern-
ple of Minerva, reaching along the
whole extent of it‘s wall. In this
lemmas are several large stone obe-
lislts; and near it a lake cased with
stone, of a circular form, and about
the sise of that at Delos, called Tro-

