 

 

240

pieces of the fused matter attached to
the stones, suﬂiciently indicate its site,
as their rounded summits the form of
three distinct ovens. ,

The natron is found both in the
plain and in two or three of the lakes.
Those from which it is principally
taken are called El Gooni'edéiih and
El Hamra. Two others, El Khor-
tii and the lesser Mellihat e’ Joon,
also produce this salt; but, being
very small, they yield but little; and
the last is only frequented by the
Arabs, who smuggle it thence to the
Nile chieﬂy by the road through the
Fybom. There are eight lakes which
contain water all the year, and are
called Mellihat. The largest and
most southerly, Mellihat om Ree-
sheh, produces only muriate of soda,
or common salt. Next to this in
sire is Mellahat e’ Jiar, also a salt
lake; then El Goonl'edé'e‘h and Mel-
ldhat el Hamra, or Dower el Hamra
(from its round form), both which
contain natron; then the larger Mel-
léhat e' Joon, a salt lake; then e’
Rasooné'éh, another salt lake; and
last El Khortai, and the lesser Joon,
which two produce natron, and are
much inferior in size to the preceding.
There are also two ponds (birkch),
the Birkeh e’ Shookayfeh, and the
Birkeh e’ Ruma'éd, which contain
water the greater part of the year,
but are dry in summer; and a few
other pools not worthy of notice, some
of which yield natron of indifferent
quality. In those lakes which con-
tain natron, or the subcarbonate, as
well as the muriate, of soda, the two
salts crystallize separately ; the latter
above, in a layer of about 18 inches,
and the natron below, varying in
thickness, according to the form or
depth of the bed of the lake, the
thinnest being about 27 inches. All
the lakes contain salt, though few
have natron; but I could not hear
of any that yield sulphate of soda
(Glauber’s Salts).

The water in the lakes varies much
in height at diﬂ‘erent seasons of the

a. 14. -— onao To me Hutton LAKES.

 

Sect. II.

year. They begin to increase about
the end of December, and continue
to rise till the early part of March.
when they gradually decrease. and in
May all the pools and even the two
larger Bit-belts are perfectly dry. The
abundance of water in winter renders
them less salt than in the subsequent
months, and even the height of the
Mellahat diminishes greatly in sum-
mer, leaving the dry part covered with
an incrustation of muriate, or subcar-
bonate, of soda, according to the nature
of the salt they contain. The dif-
ference between the bed of the Bir-
kehs and of the salt and natron lakes
is, that the former, when the water
has evaporated, is mud, and the two
latter a ﬁrm incrustation; and it is at
this time that the natron called Sol-
téaee is collected.

The natron consists of two kinds,
the white, and the Solténee; the latter
taken from the bed of the lakes as the
water retires, and the former from
the low grounds that surround them,
which are not covered by water. This
is the best quality. It is prepared
for use at the village by ﬁrst washing
and dissolving it in water, and then
exposing it to the sun in an open
court; from which it is removed to
the oven, and placed over a ﬁre in a
trough, till all the moisture is ex-
tracted. It is then put into a dry
place, and sentto the Nile for ex-
portation to Europe; but the Soltéaee
is taken, in the state in which it is
found, direct to Cairo. In measuring
the speciﬁc gravity of the water, that
of the lakes containing natron and
salt is found to mark 35 keerat (carats)
in summer, immediately before it dries
up; in January and February, about
24 ; the well water of the village one,
and that of the Nile 0.

The lVadee Nata éon is not the only
district in which natron is produced.
It is found in the valley of Eilethyas,
now El K‘b, where it crystallises on
the borders of some small ponds to
the eastward of the ancient town.
The shores of the lake Morris are also

