 

302
there than in other parts of the coun-

ty A short distance to the southward
of Antino'e' are some crude brick ruins
called Medeeneh, “ the city;" pro-
bably from the village having suc-
ceded to, or being peopled from,
Antino'e. The modern peasants be-
lieve them to be ancient. They appear
to be wholly of Christian time; and
though now deserted, the houses in
many parts are nearly entire. Be-
yond these again is a modern Chris-
tian village called E’ Dayr, or Dayr
Aboo Honnes, “ the convent of Fa-
ther John;" and little more than a
mile farther, is another, called 15'
Dayr e' Nahhl, “of the pubs tree,"
close to which is the burial-ground,
with a church called also 13’ Dayr.
In one of the grottoes on the hills
immediately behind the last-mention-
ed village is one of the most interest-
ing subjects found in any of the
Egyptian tombs. It represents a
colossus on a sledge, which a number
of men are dragging with ropes; and
is one of the few paintings that throw
any light on the method employed by
the Egyptians for moving weights.
Though it is the statue of the per-
son of the tomb, it does not follow
that it was hewn in this bill; and it
merely commemorates an event that
happened during his lifetime, like the
fowling scenes and other subjects
connected with his amusements. But
the consequence of this individual,
Thoth-btp, is fully shown, not only
by the fact of his having the honour
of a colossal statue, but by the em-
ployment of so many foreign captives
in moving it; and an important proof
is obtained by the last-mentioned
circumstance of the conquests of the
Egyptians over an Asiatic peeple at
the early period of Osintasen II.
(a. c. 1650), in whose reign this per-
son lived, and in whose victories he
had shared. He was a person of dis-
tinction in the military caste: he is
styled in the hieroglyphics “ the
king's friend ; " and one of his chil-

aoo'ra 22. -- KfNIEH mo osroor.

 

SectIII.

dren was named Osirtasen after that
Pharaoh. One hundred and seventy-
two men, in 2 rows of 48 each, pull
the ropes attached to a rin in front
of the sledge; and a liquid, perhaps
grease, or water, is poured from a
vase by a person standing on the pe-
destal of the statue, in order to faci.
litate its progress as it slides on the
ground; which was probably covered
with a bed of planks, though they
are not indicated in the picture.

Some of the persons engaged in
this laborious duty appear to be
Egyptians, others are foreign slaves,
who are clad in the costume of their
country; and behind the statue are
four rows of men, in all 19 in num-
ber, representing either the architects
and masons, or those who had an em-
ployment about the place where the
statue was to be conveyed. Below
are others, carrying vases, apparently
of water, and some machinery con-
nected with the transport of the statue,
followed by task-masters with their
wands of ofﬁce. 0n the knee of the
ﬁgure stands a man who claps his
hands to the measured cadence of a
song, to mark the time and ensure
their simultaneous draught; for it is
evident that in order that the whole
power might be applied at the some
instant, a sign of this kind was ne-
cessary; and the custom of singing
at their work was common to every
occupation of the Egyptians, as it
now is in that country, in India, and
many other places.

The height of the statue appears to
have been about 24 feet, including
the pedestal. It was bound to the
sledge by double ropes, tightened by
means of long pegs inserted between
them, and twisted round until com-
pletely braced; and to prevent injury
from the friction of the ropes, a com-
press of leather, lead, or other sub-
stance was introduced between them
and the stone. Before the ﬁgure a
priestly scribe is presenting incense
in honour of the person it represents;
and at the top of the picture are seven

