 

”-1..-.—

(LEgypt.

Khern, the queen still witnessing the
ceremony, which is concluded by an
offering of incense and libetion, made
by Remeses to the statue of the god.

In the lower compartments, on
this side of the temple, is a procession
of the arks of Amunre, Meut, and
Khonso, which the king, whose ark
is also carried before him, comes to
meet. In another part, the gods
Ombte end Hor- Hat pour alternate
emblems of life and power (or purity)
over the king ; and on thesouth well
he is introduced by several divinities
into the presence of the patron deities
of the temple. in the upper part of
the west wall, Iiemeses makes oﬂ‘er—
lugs to Pthah-Sokari and to Kneph;
in another compartment he burns in-
cense to the ark of Sokari; and near
this is a tablet relating to the oﬂ‘erings
made to the same deity. The ark is
then borne by 16 priests, with a pontiﬂ‘
and another of the sacerdotsl order
in attendance. The king then joins
in another procession formed by eight
of his sons and four chiefs, behind
whom two priests turn round to oﬂ'er
incense to the monarch. The hawk,
the emblem of the king, or of Horus,
precedes them, end I8 priests carry
the sacred emblem of the god Nol'ri-
Atmoo, which usually accompanies
the ark of Solteri.

On the south wall marches a long
procession, composed of hieraphori,
bearing diﬂ‘erent standards, thrones,
srks, end insignia, with musicians,
who precede the king end his attend-
ants. The ﬁgure of the deity is not
introduced, perhaps intimating that
this forms pert of the religious pump
of the corresponding wall ; and from
the circumstance of the king here
wearing the pshcut. it is not impro-
bable it may also allude to his coro-
nation.

Battle Scenes. — The commence-
ment of the interesting historical sub-
jects of Mcdcénet llaiboo is at the
south-west corner of this court. on
the inner face of the tower. Here
Remeses standing in his car, which

BATTLE some.

 

 

857

his horses at full speed into the
midst of the enemy's ranks, iseharges
his arrows on their ﬂying infantry.
The Egyptian chariots join in the
pursuit, end a body of their siliee
assist in slaughtering those who op-
pose them, or bind them as captives.
Theright handsoftheslalnersthen
cut oti‘ as trophies of victory.

The sculptures on the west wall
are a continuation of the scene. The
Egyptian princes and generals con-
duct “ captive chier " into the pre-
sence of the king. He is seated
at the back of his ear, end the spirited
horses are held by his attendants on
foot. Besides other trophies, large
heaps of hends are placed bebre him,
which an otlicer counts one by one,
as the other notes down their number
on a scroll, each heep containingSOOO,
and the total indicating the returns of
the enemy's slain. The number of
captives, reckoned IOOO in each line,
is also mentioned in the hieroglyphies
above, where the name of the Reba
points out the nation against whom
this war was carried on. Their dow-
ing dresses, striped horisontaily with
blue or green bands on e whiteground,
and their long hair and aquiiine nose
give them the character of some
eastern nation, probably in the
vicinity of Assyris, as their name re-
minds us of the Rhibii of Ptolemy.
But it is not my intention to enter
into a dissertation on this subject;
and future discoveries may throw
more light on the scenes of these in-
teresting wars. A long hieroglyphic
inscription is placed over the king,
and a still longer tablet, occupying a
great part of this wall, refers to the
exploits of the Egyptian conqueror,
and bears the date of his ﬁlth year.

The suite of this historical sub
continues on the south wall.
king. returning victorious to Egypt,
proceeds slowly in his car, conducting
in triumph the winners he has mode,
who walk beside and before it, three
others being bound to the sale. Two
0! his sons attend as tan-beamed

