 

96

several places hereabouts; and just to
the W. of the Port Lochias are ruins
at the water's edge; and some way
beyond the mouth of the canal ate
remains of buildings, reservoirs. solid
masonry, and broken granite columns.
It was here that I found the small
statue of Harpocrates, now in the
British Museum. At the ﬁrst pro-
jecting point to the W. of Cape
Lochias, the French have laid down,
in their plan of Alexandria, a ruined
mole, at the next the remains of the
palace, and then the Roman tower
near the obelisks, already mentioned.

10. Sm ann mean-uses or
Atsxaunau. — The circumfetence
of ancient Alexandria is said by
Pliny to have been 15 miles, and we
have seen that Strabo gives it a dia-
meter of 80 stadia, or, as Diodorus
says, a length of 40 stadia. Its
population amounted to more than
300,000 free inhabitants, “ besides at
least an equal number of slaves;"
and we may judge of its magniﬁcence
from the fact, that the Romans them-
selves considered it infetior only to
their own capital. Nor new the
greatness and ﬂourishing condition
of Alexandria of short duration; and
even as late as the year 640 a.n.,
when taken by the Arabs, it was te-
markable for its wealth and splen-
dour. “ I have taken," says Amer
in his letter to the Caliph, “ the great
city of the West. It is impossible
for me to enumerate the variety of its
riches and beauty, and I shall content
myself with observing, that it contains
4000 palaces, 4000 baths, 400 theatres
or places of amusement, 12,000 shops
for the sale of vegetables, and 40,000
tributary Jews.”

The ﬂourishing state of Alexandria,
mentioned by Diodorus, refers to the
time of Ptolemy Dionysius,'in whose
reign he visited Egypt; but it was
cartied to a much higher point under
the Caesars, and the suburbs alone
contained the population of a large
city. Every thing tended to increase
the importance of the place. Com-

non'ra l. — newness - rams.

 

Sect. I.

merce was established on a broader
basis. The intercourse with Europe
was increased to an extent unknown
under the Ptolemies, and the bound-
less dominion of the Romans made it
the emporium of the whole world.
“ In former times,” says Strabo,
“ there were not twenty vessels that
ventured to navigate the Red Sea, so
as to pass out of the straits; but now
there no great ﬂeets that make the
voyage to India, and to the remutest
parts of Ethiopia, returning laden
with very valuable cargoes to Egypt,
whence they are distributed to other
places. They are, therefore, subject
to a double duty, ﬂrst upon importa-
tion, and then upon exportation; and
the duties upon the valuable articles
we themselves proportionably valu-
able. Besides, they have the advan-
tage of a moxmpoly, since Alexandria
is so situated as to be the only ware-
house for receiving them, and for
transmitting them to other places."

“ The lucrative trade of Arabia and
India," says Gibbon, “ ﬂowed through
the port of Alexandria to the capital and
provinces of the empire. Idleness was
unknown. Some were employed in
blowing ofglass, others in weaving of
linen; others, again, in manufactur-
ing the papyrus. Either sex, and
every age, was engaged in the pur-
suits of industry, nor did even the
blind or the lame want occupation
suited to their condition. But the
people of Alexandria, a various mix-
ture of nations, united the vanity and
inconstancy of the Greeks with the
superstition and obstinacy of the
Egyptians. The most triﬂing occa-
sion, a transient scarcity of ﬂesh or
lentils, the neglect of an accustomed
salutatipn, a mistake of precedency
in the public baths, or even a reli-
gious dispute, were at any time sufﬁ-
cient to kindle a sedition among that
vast multitude, whose resentments
were furious and implacable." The
same advantages of position which
pointed it out to the discerning eye of
Alexander, as likely to rival and

