 

 

U. Egypt. Rome 28. -— sumo ms. 408

mentioned by Pliny, with landmarks
to direct small vessels through the
dangerous coral reefs, whose abrupt
discontinuance forms their mouth.
These corresponding openings are
singular, and are probably owing to
the coral insects not working where
the fresh water of the winter torrents
runs into the sea, which is the case
where these ports are found. There
are no remains of towns at any of
them, except at NM and the
Lucas Portia, the sites of which I
have ascertained; the former in Wad‘
e' Nations. the latter known by the
nsme of E" Shdono, or “ the mega-
sine." Nechesia has the ruins of s
temple, and s citadel of hewn stone;
but the [Auras Portus is in a very
dilapidated state; and the materials
of which the houses were built, like
those of Berenice, are merely frag-
ments of madrepore and shapeless
pieces of stone.

About helf way between them is
another small port, 4 miles to the
west of which are the lend mines of
Get»! s’ Reader.- and a short distance
to the northward, in Wadee Aboo-
Raikeh, is a small quarry of bssanite,
worked by the ancients.

Emerald Alina—The emerald mines
are far less interesting than might be
supposed. Some are at the Gebel Za-
bdrn. and others in that neighbour-
hood, about the Wsdée Sak‘yt. 'lbey
hsve been successively worked by the
ancient Egyptians, the caliphs. the
Memlooks, and the present Pasha,
but are now abandoned. They lie
in micaceous schist; and numerous
shells of considerable depth have
been excavated at the base of the
mountain. The largest is at Gebel
Zab‘ra, extending downwards, at an
angle of 37°, to the distance of about
860 feet, being SIS in horitontal
length, and 215 in perpendicular
depth.

To the soutl'I of Gcbel Zabdra is
the extensive 'l lsge of My, con-
sisting of numerous tniners' huts and

houses3andiudgmofitaminss,

a temple excavated in the rock, and
some Greek inscriptions, render it
peculiarly interestiugtothean ' uary.
The name of Sakdyt is eviden y de-
rived from that given tothe town
in old times. A Greek inscription
there speaks of the god Ssrapis and
the lady Isis of Benskis, or ﬁenskeet.

in the sdjoining valley,called Fed‘s
Noyrss, which is only separated from
Wades Sakiyt by a ridge of hills, is
another similar village, whose house
are better built and on alsrger scale.
with the advantage ofa natural reser-
voir, under the neighbouring clih, of
excellent water.

It is through this Wad“ Bsklyt
thattberoad goesfrom the Nile to
Berenice.

Ancient Reed ﬁc- Coatre Apeﬂ-
sepolis to the Emerald Hines. — 0n
the road from Contra Apollinopolis
to the emerald mines are three sta-
tions. 'I'heﬂrstissmall,andpre-
sents nothing interestin . except the
name ofkiog Amun- odnh. a co-
temporary of Amunoph UL; but
close to the second is a temple cut in
the rock, founded. and dedicated to
Amun, by King Osirei. the fatherof
Remeses the Great. Though small,
its sculptures are of a very good
style; and in the hell is a curious
tablet of hieroglyphics, bearing the
date of the ninth year of this Pharaoh.

The temple consists of a portion,
supported by four columns; and a ball,
with four pillars in the centre, at the
end of which are three small cham-
bers, or rather niches. each containing
three statues. Many visitors have
written Greek inscriptions on its
walls, most of which are exvotos to
Pan; but one is remarkable as being
of the soldiers quartered in the for-
titlcd station, whose thirteen nsmes
are inscribed on one of the columns
of the porch

lo a chamber of the stetiotl is a
block of stone, bearing an exvoto to
“ Arsin'd Philadelphe," the wife of
Ptolemy Philadelphus, who founded

 

[thetownofBerenit-qtowhichthis

