 

 

17.39pr noura 29.—xn.xrnxas, now an. an. 407

isanancientquay ofbewnstone;
butlharenot been abletodiseover
any town of consequence in theim-
mediate neighbourhood. to which it is
likely to have bel Some sup-
pose it to mark the site of Cbnubis.

Three miles beyond this, and a
short distance from the river, is a
ruined pyramid, called El Me. It
is built in degrees, (as were probably
all other pyramids.) and is composed
of limestone blocks, from the rock
on which it stands, of irregular form,
and bun with little care. Though
in a dilapidated state, twenty-ﬁve
tiers still remain, and its total height.
now reduced to about 85 feet, may
perhaps originally have exceeded 50;
the base being about 60 feet square.

Four miles farther to the south—
wardis EIKomeldmer,or“the
red mound.” It marks the site of
Hierocoepolis. which, as Strabo in-
forms us, was opposite Eilethyes; and
though little now exists of the ancient
buildings that once adorned the “city
of the hawks," the name of the ﬁrst
Osirtasen suﬂices to establish their
claim to a very remote antiquity.
Near them is a large enclosure of
brick, with double walls, of consider-
able height.

Opposite El genin commences the
region of sandstone, whose compact
and even grain induced the ancient
Egyptians to employ it in the erection
of most of the large buildings in
Upper Egypt.

A short distance from El Ma-
hsmid is an isolated rock, which was
quarried at an early period. and on
whose southern side the workmen
have sculptured a few rude triglyphs.

Between this and El Kah stood a
small peripteral temple. which has
suﬂ'ered the fate of all the interesting
ruins of Eilethyas, and whose need-
less destruction necessarily excites
our regret at the ignorance of the
Turks.

It was surrounded by a perist le of
square pillars, and resembled the
temple of Kneph, at Bleplnntine, in

 

its , and even in the
sculptures the interior, where the
king was represented editing to the
sacred shrine of Re. It was founded
bytbethird Thothmes,andononeof
thepillarswastbenameofAmnnoph
11., his son and sum.

El Kat is the modern name of
Eiledyns, the city of Lucina. The
town was surrounded by a large
crudsbrick wall; and on the south
side was another enclosure, furnished
with doorways of masonry, which
contained the temples, and a reser-
voir cased with bewn stone. On the
east is an open space of considerable
extent, encompa-ed also by a strong
wall, with several s staircaus,
or inclined planes, ceding to the pa-
rapet, as usual in the fortiﬁed towns
of ancient Egypt.

The temples were one small scale,
but the style of the sculptures and the
nameof the second Remeses est in
inlagh'o over that of a more ancient
king. served to indicts their anti-
quity, and consequently to enhance
our regret at their destruction.

Amunoph ll. and Pthahmen added
to the sculptures, but the original
founder was the ﬁrst Hakorls; who.
hieroglyphica, (Maj. hes-reh'ﬁ
left no doubt regarding the fact of
Remeses the Great having introduced
his name at a su uent period, and
satisfactorily prov that this could
not be the Hakoris of the twenty-
ninth dynasty.

lie shared with Lucina the worship
ofthe city; but most of the dedice-
tions, in the sacred buildings that re-
main, only present the name of the
goddess. The principal ruins now
consist of a small isolated cha lor
eons, a short distanceup tbevalty to
the eastward, dedicated by Remeeee
ll. to Re; a Ptolema'ic tem le,
partly built and partly excavate in
the sandstone rock; and aboutamile
further to the eastward, another iso.
lated ruin, bearing the name and
sculptures of Amueoph Ill. The
dimensions of the chapel of Bears

