 

U. Egypt.

subject representing a barber shaving
a customer; and not, as I supposed,
a doctor bleeding his patient; for in
another tomb one of them is engaged
in cutting the nails of the other's
foot, which, among an reﬁned a peo-
ple as the Egyptians, could scarcely
be the duty of a surgeon. Their
numerous occupationsare here pointed
out by the introduction of the most
common trades; among which the most
remarkable are glass-blowers, gold-
smiths, statuaries, painters, workers
in ﬁes, and potters; and the circum-
stance of the cattle being tended by
decrepit herdsmen serves to show in
nhat low estimation this class of
people was held by the Egyptians.
On the eastern well are wrestlers in
various attitudes; and to distinguish
more readily the action of each oom-
batnnt, the artist has availed himself
of in dark and a light colour; one be-
ing painted red, the other black: and
indeed in the ﬁgures throughout these
tombs, the direction of the arms when
crossin the body is in like manner
deno by a lighter outline. On
the southern wall some peasants are
sentenced to the bastinado, and a
woman is subjected to the same mode
of correction. In these the ﬁgures
are smaller than in the northern
grottoes, but their style and propor-
tions are very inferior.

The nest tomb but one is a copy
of that just mentioned; but the
ti urea are very badly executed. In
addition to the other subjects common
to them both, we ﬁnd men playing
chess (or rather draughts), some curi-
ous bird-traps, and on the south wall
a square of magazines with circular
roofs. which appear to point out the
existence of the crude brick vault in
the time of these early Pharaohs. I t
is in these tombs that we ﬁnd the
greatest variety of games, trades, and
illustrations of the manners and cus-
toms of the Egyptians, which have
been so useful in the insight they
have aﬁ'orded into the habits of that
ancient people; for which I mustre-

noun 22. -— Gnomes or nun name.

 

297

ferthereader to the woodcuts given in
my work on “ The Ancient Egyptians."
in lookingat these pictures, we are
struck with the singular custom of
writing over each subject or object
the name of whatever the artist in-
tended to represent, even the animals
and most ordinary ﬁgures; which
may have been the remnant of an old
custom when they began drawing,
these highly Wes people con-
tinuing to the latest times to adopt
the early u of their ancestors.
And this calls to mind a remark of
Elian, that “when paintin was in
its infancy, they drew so rudely, that
artists wrote over the pictures, ‘this
is an oa,’ ‘that a bores,’ “this a
m.’l'

The tombs beyond present defaced
paintings not worthy of notice.
Among other singular customs with
which the grottoes of Beni Hassan
have made us acquainted, is that of
admitting dwarfs and deformed per-
sons into the suite of the grandees;
and these, as well as buﬁ‘oons, were
introduced at a later time into diﬁ'er.
ent countries of Europe, in imitation
of an usage common from the earliest
ages in the East. Dwarfs were em-
ployed at Rome even before the time
of the empire. Marc Antony had
them; and subsequently Tiberius
and Domitian. The latter kept a
band of dwarf gladiators. Alexan-
der Severus banished this custom;
but it was revived in the middle ages.

On the well of one of the tombs is
a Greek alphabet, with the letters
transposed in various ways, evidently
by a person teachin Greek; who
appears to have foun these cool re-
cesses as well suited for the resort of
himself and pupils as was any stoa, or
the grove of Academus.

I have in vain looked for a town
in the vicinity, to which these cata-
combs may have belonged. It is not
impossible that it stood on the oppo-
site bank; for, as already observed,
the E ptians frequently transported
their across the river to their

0 5

