 

 

U- Egypt.

Egypt." And even if the authority
of Herodotus, who makes the Col-
chians an Egyptian colony, and of
Diodorus, who speaks of their Bac-
trian subjects, were called in question,
yet the circumstantial and prepon-
derating evidence of the Scriptures
leaves no room to doubt, that thesrms
o! the early and more potent Egyp-
tian monarchs had extended at least as
far as Amyria and the neighbouring
countries. Nor does Egyptian sculp-
ture fail to prove this interesting his-
torical fact, which, independent of the
colour of those people, of much lighter
hue than the inhabitants of the Nile,
is conﬁrmed by the dress and features
of the prisoners of 'l‘irhaka,—the
Assyrians ol' Sennscherib, — who are
similar to some of those captured by
the earlier Pharaohs.

To return to the great hall. One
of the architrsves presents a long in-
scription, purporting that Amunmai
Remeses has made the sculptures (or
the work) for his father Amunre, king
of the gods, and that he has erected
the hall . . . . . . of hewn stone,
good and hard blocks, supported by

us columns (alluding, from their
form, to those of the central colon-
nade) in addition to (the side)
columns (being similar to those of
the lateral colonuades). At the upper
end of this hall, on the northwest
wall, the king receives the fslchion
and sceptres from Amunre, «ho is
attended by the Goddess Msut ; and
in the hieroglyphics mention is made
of this palace of Remeses, of which
the deity is said to be the guardian.
We also learn from them that the
king is to smite the heads of his
foreign enemies with the former, and
with the latter to defend or rule his
country, Egypt. On the corre.
sponding wall he receives the emblems
of life and power from Amunre,
attended by Khonso, in the presence
of the lion-headed goddma. Be-
low these compartments, on either
wall, is a procession of the twenty-
threesonsoi'the king; entice the

THE GREAT HALL.

 

- -"' ”MI-‘M-Fw—— ‘D'd-_*wmg$1.‘ due-

347

west cornersre three of his daughters.
but without their names. Hts thir-
teenth son is here called Pthahmen,
and it is highly probable that be was
his successor; for, in addition to his
having the same name, a kingly pre-
nomen is here preﬁxed to the line of
hi lyphics in which he is mett-
tion . This preﬁx was perhaps
added on his becoming heir apparent
by the demise of his elder brothers,
though it was altered again on his
assumption of the crown.

On theceiling of the nest chamber
is an astronomical subject. On the
upper side of it are the twelve 3”.
tian months, and at the e of
Mesore allusion is made to the ﬁve
days of the epact and the rising of the
dog-star, under the 0 re of Isis-
Sothis. in the hierog ypbics o! the
border of this picture, mention is
made of the columns and of the
building of this chamber with “hard
stone," where apparently were depo.
sited the “ books of Thoth.” On the
walls are sculptured sacred arts,
borne in procession by the priests;
and at the base of the door leading
to the nest apartment is an inscrip-
tion, purporting that the king bed
dedicated it to Amun, and mention
seems to be made of its being beau-
tilied with gold and precious orna-
ments. The door itself was of two
folds, turning on bronse pins, which
moved in circular grooves of the
same metal, since removed from the
stones in which they were ﬁled. On
the north wall of the nest and last
room that now remains, the king is
makingoﬂ'erings and burning incense,
on one side, to Pthah and the lion-
headed goddess; on the other, to Re
(the so It ), whose ﬁgure is gone. Large
tablets before him mention the otl'er-
ings he has made to dil'erent deities.

Other reins. — in the immediate
vicinity of this temple-palace are the
vestiges of another sandstone baildi ,
the bases of whose columns scarce y
appear above the ground; and be-
tween these two ruinaare metal pita.

Q 6

