 

170
buildin of the temple there. The
son of nlas the high—priest. who bore

the same name as his father, having
ﬂed from Antiochus, king of Syria,
took refuge at Alexandria in the time
of Ptolemy Philometor. Seeing that
J ud-a was oppressed by the Macedo-
nlsn kings, and being desirous to
acquire celebrity, he resolved to ask
leave of Ptolemy and Cleopatra to
build a temple in Eg pt, like that of
Jerusalem, and to or sin Levites and
priests out of their own stock. To
this he was also stimulated by a pro-
phecy of Isaiah, who predicted that
there should be a temple in Egypt
built by a Jew. He therefore wrote
to Ptolemy, expressing this wish, and
saying he had found a very ﬂt place
in a castle that received its name from
the country, Diana. He represented
it as shounding with sacred animals,
full of materials fallen down, and be-
longing to no master. He also inti-
mated to the king that the Jews would
thereby be induced to collect in Egypt,
and assist him against Antiochus.
Ptolemy, after expressing his surprise
that the God of the Jews should be
pleased to have a temple built in a place
so unclean, and so full of sacred ani-
mals, granted him permission 3 and the
temple was accordingly erected, though
smaller and poorer than that of Jeru-
salem. Josephus aﬂerwards states that
the place was 180 stades distant from
Memphis; that the name was called
of Heliopolis; the temple was like a
tower (in height 1’), of large stones,
and 60 cubits high; the entire tem-
ple was encompassed by a wall of
burnt brick, with gates of stone. In
lieu of the candlestick he made a lamp
of gold, suspended by a golden chain.
Such is the substance 0 the not very
clear description given by Josephus.
It is suﬂicient to settle the position
of the place; and we may suppose
that Onias chose this neighbourhood
for other reasons, which he could not
venture to explain to an Egyptian
king surrounded by Egyptians, per-
haps because it had associations_con-

camo. -- nxcunszon 2.

 

SectII.
nectedwiththeabodeoftheaneea-

tors of the Jews in whence
they started with a high hand, and
freed themselves from the bondage of
Pharaoh.

Other Jewish cities seem aller-
wards to have been built inthis dis-
rict; and these whose mounds still
remain are probably of the “ ﬁve cities
in the land of Egypt,” which, accord-
ing to Isaiah, were “to speak the
language of Canaan." They con-
tinued to be inhabited by Jews till a
late period. It was by them that
Mithridates of Pergamus received so
much assistance, when on his way to
assist J. Closer; and the 500 who
were embatked by Elius Galina
against Arabia appear to have been
from the same district. And though
Vespasian, alter the taking of Jerusa-
lem, had suppressed their religious
meetings in the Heliopolite name,
they continued to be established in
many parts of Egypt, independent of
the large quarter they possessed in
Alexandria, from which they were
expelled by the persecutions of the or-
thodox Cyril.

About twenty-one miles beyond
Onion to the N. N. E. is Tel Basta,
whose lofty mounds mark the site of
Bubastis, and fourteen miles to the
N. E. is Belbays, the successor of
Bubastis Agria, in Coptic Pheibes.
Near to this passed the ancient canal
that once led to Arsino'e' (now Sues)
on the Red Sea, whose bed may still
be traced for a considerable distance
in that direction.

Returning to Cairo from Heliopo-
lie, about a mile and a half to the lei}.
of the road, is a red gritstone moun-
tain, which lies over the calcareous
strata of the Gebel Mol_t_uttum. The
gritstone, which gradually runs into
a siliceous rock, contains numerous
calcedonies, and is of the same na-
ture as the vocal statue at Thebes.
Owing to the quality of the stone,
which renders it peculiarly adapted
for mills, this mountain has been

