 

 

Egypt-

attbe present day is not looked upon
with respect either by the Cairenes,
or the people ofthe Barbarycoast,
wbo occasionally visit this city. They
are still both in manner and appear-
ance a mixed race; and you may

ve in them something of the

' the Greek, and the Mo-

12. CunarL—rns Lass Mass-
orts. — CanAu. — Several ancient
writers, as Diodorus. Strabo, Am-
mianus Marcellinus, Qnintus Curtius,
and even Celsus, speak of the climate
of Alexandriaas healthy, with a tem-
perature both cool and saluhrious.
This Strabo attributes to the admis-
don of the Nile water into the Lake
Ilareotis, and apparently not without
reason; since it is notorious that the
fevers prevalent there are owing to
cabalations from it; and medical men
have lately recommended that the
Nile water should be freely admitted
into it, to remedy tltis evil. At the
close ofthe last century, this Inlte was
nearly dry; but during the contest
between the English and French at
Alexandria, the sea was let into it by
the former, in order to impede the
communication of the besieged with
Cairo. and cut off the sttpply of fresh
water from the city; and it is now
once more a lake.

The Lake Mareotis was formerly
practicable for boats, and of sufﬁcient
depth to answer all the purposes of in-
land navigation. Straho gives it a
little less than 300statlia in length,
and upwards of ICC in breadth, hav-
ing eight islands within it; and its
banks, which were thickly inhabited,
en'oycd great reputation for the ex-
cellent wine they produced.

Pliny says it was formerly called
Arapotes; that it communicated by a
sluice witlt the Canopic canal, and
contained several islands. lie gives
it 30 miles across, and 600 in cir-
cumference; and, according to other
calculations, it was 40 sclnnes, or
150 Roman miles, in length, and the
same in breadth.

noun 1. —— ALEXANDRIA -— ensure: — PORT.

 

 

99

Mr. Hamilton mentions the site of
an old canal which communicated
from Lake Mareotis with the port of
Alexandria. The banks and channel
of a large canal, running from the
lake to the old harbour, may also be
seen about half way between the
modern city and Mat-abut point, about
4 miles to the S. W. of the modern
town and little more than ll mile be-
yond the Catacombs. It is 6600 feet
long; the high mounds on either side
are about 230 feet apart, and the
breadth of the canal itself may have
been about 80 feet. There is also
the bed of a small channel about half
way from the town and the Cata-
combs, but probably of late time;
and the canal that leads from the
Mahmoodéeh to the Rosetta gate, and
enters the new port near the lasaretto,
is a modern work, cut through the
walls and basements of ancient build-
ings. The old canal that ran into the
sea, near the basin of Kibotos, was
doubtless that passing under the pre-
sent walls, stitltin the western gate.
The Canopic canal was on the east of
the to“ n.

13. Tue two l’oa'rs, G arts, “'Atu.
—‘rna OLD Docas.-— We have seen
that the two ports, called the “'estern
or EunOstus, and the Great Harbour,
were formerly only separated by the
lleptastadinm, and had a communi-
cation by bridges, which formed part
of that mole. Since the rule of
the Moslems, a far more marked dis-
tinction has been made between those
two ports, than is coitveyed by the
mere difference of name, the one hay.
ing been till lately reserved exclu-
sively for 'l'urltislt vessels, and the
other alone appropriated to those of
the Christian states. For until the
beginning of the present century no
Quint." vessel nas permitted to
enter the old or ts estern hatbour; or,
if compelled to do so by stress of
weather, was forced to go round as
soon as an opportunity offered; and
it was in consequence of this custom
that all the houses of the Europeans,

r 2

