 

W cnononooicu. run. 17

that'ofthspeopla. 'I'hisistrne; butwhat otherTurh hasdone it? and what
natirewould haremadethsattempt? and may not thisbe saidofall great
works In any country? at the same time, how many prejudices of the people
hmbenothadtoenoounter? andhow gradualmustbethesteps Inths
commencement of civilisation? For these, then, he deserves full credit;
and the point for which he merits censure, is his having done little to amelio-
ratethsconditionofthe people,though indebted so much for hisgreatness
to the money wrung from their labours.
l. ramtr or Ito-Altman au.

“family of Mohammad Ali consists of Ibrahim Pasha, Said Pasha,
Hosssyn Bey, Alim Bey, and Mohammed Ali Bey; Nusleh Henem,
his eldest daughter, the widow of Mohammed Bey Deﬂerdar, and other
daughters.

Toossoom and Ismail Pashas died many years ago, and the former left a
son, now Abbas Pasha, who will probably one day succeed to the Pashalic of

Em"- '

Ibrahim Pasha has some children, the eldest of whom are Ahmed Bey,
horn in 1895, Ismail Bey, and Mustafa Bey.

The other members of Mohammed Ali's family are his nephews, Hossayn
Bey. Ahmed Pasha, Ibrahim Pasha the younger, Ismail Buy, and some
younger ones.

I. cusoaonomcar. usu or autos or aorrr.

In order to assist those who are interested in Egyptian antiquities, I shall
introduce a list of the kings, which may be useful in examining the monu-
ments, particularly at Thebes.

 

Let In A h
Ier t e
Piste. Kings. Throne Events.

LC.

 

A Menu, Menai - 9320 First King of Egypt, according
to Josephus lived upwards of
1300 years before Solomon.
Athothis, his son - 2300

(Other kings)
2201 Foundation of the kingdom of
Assyria by Nimrod.
Suphis, or Saophis - 9l93 Built the Great Pyramid.
9089 Kingdom of Sicyon founded.
Sen-Saophis - — 9083 Built the Second Pyramid.
2051 Era of the Chinese Emperor
Moschcris, Mencheris, 9043 Yao.

or Myccrinus - Built the Third Pyramid.

Apsppus - . 9001 Or Aphoph “ the'Giant.“
. 1990 Abraham arrives in Egypt. Pro-
Nltocris - - l900 bahly the queen called Nicsule
by Juleplltu-
1856 Foundation of the kingdom of
Argos.
HMO Deluge of Ogy in Attics.
"1 MWMOPIII or Men- l830 Perhaps the oil: hing t' -f this
nlétbph svth Dynasty, and s Thelma.

 

 

 

 

 

 

