 

xxviii INTRODUCTION.

the island, to the paint that then concealed the valuable quality of
its materials.

In one of the side chapels 1s a picture by Michael Angelo Cara-
vaggio, representing the beheading of St. John; a good painting,
but badly preserved. It is said that the artist made this a present
to the order, on condition of being created a knight of Malta, in
consequence of the following occurrence : —One of the knights
having oﬂ‘ended the artist, the latter challenged him to single com-
bat, and satisfaction being refused, on the plea of his not being
worthy to meet his antagonist in a duel, Caravaggio sought to obtain
a position which should entitle him to this right. He therefore ap-
plied to the grand master, in the hopes of obtaining the rank of
knight, which was granted, on condition of painting this picture
It was done, he became a knight, and fought his duel, but 1n order
to diminish as much as possible the value of a work, which the pride
of a member of the order had condemned him to execute, he painted
the picture on cotton instead of canvas, whence its decayed state,
and the dimcnlty of its restoration. Such is the story at Malta, the
truth of which may be doubted ; though the most important point is
true that he painted the picture.

. In the crypts below the cathedral are the tombs of some of the
grand masters.

The principal objects in the vicinity of Valetta and in the country
are the ruins near Crendi, or Casal Crendi, the hollow called the
Devil’s Punch Bowl, or Makluba, St. Paul’s Bay, Citta Vecchia and
the Catacombs, the Garden of Boschetto, the Governor’s Villa of
San Antonio, the Grotto of Calypso, and the Aqueduct built by the
Grand Master Vignacourt‘in 1610.

. These have been so frequently described that I shall only mention
the ruins near Casal Crendi, excavated by order of the governor, Sir
Henry Bouverie, in 1839-40. They. are about twenty minutes‘
walk from that village, and are called Hagar geem, “ the upright
stone." This name has been very improperly written Khem, and
has been supposed to bear some relation to Egypt, or the land of
Ham (Khem). They consist of several apartments of various sizes,
irregularly placed within one common enclosure, mostly connected
with each other by passages or doorways. The rooms are either oval,

or have one end of semicircular form; and their walls are composed
of large stones placed upright in the ground, or in horizontal
courses. The principal entrance is on the S. S. E. A short pas-
sage leads from it into a small court, in which, on the left hand side,
is a small altar ornamented with a rude attempt at sculpture, repre-

