 

148

to show he had not lost or sold his
master's pointer, at the same time
that he proved his seal in the cause
of what Moslems loolt upon as an
unclean and contemptible animal.

a. a. FESTIVAL. AFB 810m ‘1' CAII-O.

The principal annual ceremony at
Cairo is the departure of the pilgrims
for Mecca, on the 25th of .Showal.
The Maltese! and the Kistodr are the
chief objects in this procession. The
former is a velvet canopy, borne on a
camel richly caparisoned, and was ori-
ginally intended for the travelling seat
or Garmdot, of the wives of the
caliphs, who went to the pilgrimage.
This and the Méhub, or pomp that
attends the pilgrims, were ﬁrst sug-
gested by Sheggeret e' Door, the
queen of Sultan Sileh, who was auxi-
ous to add to the splendour of the
hitherto simple procession of the Faith-
ful; and the dangers of the journey
were at the'same time greatly de-
creased by an additional reinforcement
of guards. The Kismet e’ Nebbee
is the lining of the Basin, or temple
of Mecca. It is of rich silk, adorned
with Arabic sentences embroidered in
gold, and is yearly supplied from
Cairo; the old One being then returned,
and divided into small portions for the
beneﬁt or satisfaction of the credu-
lous.

The pilgrims, after staying two
days at the edge of the desert, near
Dimerdﬁsh, proceed to the Billtet el
Hag, or “ lake of the pilgrims,” where
they remain a day : from thence they
go to El Hamra; and after a halt of
a day there, they continue their jour-
ney as far as Agerood, where they
stop one day; and having seen the
new moon of Zul-ltﬁdi, they leave
the frontier of Egypt, cross the nor-
thern part of the peninsula of Mount
Sinai to El Altaba, at the end of the
Eastern Gulph, and then continue
their march through Arabia, till they
arrive at Mecca. After having per-
formed the prescribed ceremonies
there, having walked seven times at

CAIRO. — FESTIVALS.

 

Sect. II.

least round the Isiaba, and kissed the
black stone, taken water from the holy
well of Zemsem, visited the hill of
Zafa, and the Omra, the 70,000 pil-
grims proceed to the holy hill of
Arafat. This is the number said to be
collected annually at the pilgrimage
from the various nations of Islam;
and so necessary is it that it should
be completed on the occasion, that
angels are supposed to come down to
supply this deﬁciency. whenever the
pilgrimage is thinly attended. Such
is the eﬁ'r-ct of the magical number 7,
and of the credulity of the East.

Their return to Cairo is also a day
of great rejoicing, when the pilgrims
enter in procession by the Bab e’
Nusr, about the end of the month
Saﬂ'er, generally the 25th or 27th.
But this ceremony is neither so im-
portant, nor so scrupulously observed
as the departure; each person being
more anxious to return to his friends,
than to perlornr a part in an unproﬁt-
able pageant.

The Eed e’ Soghéir, or lesser festi-
val, falls on the beginning of Showal,
the month immediately following the
fast of Ramadan. and continues three
days, which are kept like those of the
Eed el Kebéer, with the exception of
the sacriﬁce, which is not then per-
formed. These two festivals are called
by the Turks, Bairam. The Bed el
Kebéer, “ the greater Eed," or Eed
e' Dahéiih (“of the sacriﬁce ") also con-
tinues three days, and is kept on the
10th, 11th, and 12th of Zul-hag, being
the three days when the pilgrimage
of Mecca is per formed.

The day before the Eed the pilgrims
ascend the holy hill of Arafat, which
is thence called Nahr el weigfeh.
“the day of the ascent," or “standing
upon” (the hill): there they remain
all night, and next day, which is the
Eed, they sacriﬁce on the hill; then,
having gone down, they with closed
eyes pick up scven-times-seven small
stones, which they throw upon the
tomb of the devil at even, and next
day go to Mecca, where they remain

