 

 

   

vva 'T'“ vﬁ—ﬁ—"

U. Egypt.

dicularly down the back, from the
shoulder to the pedestal, containing
the name of the Pharaoh they repre-
sent.

Three hundred feet behind thessare
the remains of another colossus of
similar form and dimensions, which,
fallen prostrate, is partly buried by
the alluvial deposits of the Nile.

Corresponding to this are four
smaller statues formed of one block,
and representing male and female
ﬁgures, probably of Amunoph and
his queen. They are seated on a
throne, now concealed beneath the
soil. and two of them are quite de-
faced. Their total height, without
the head, which has been broken off,
is 8 feet 3 inches, including the pe-
destal, and they were originally only
about 9 feet l0 inches. They are
therefore a strange pendant for a co-
lossus of 60 feet, and even making
every allowance for Egyptian sym-
metrophobia, it is difficult to account
for their position. But the accumu-
lation of the soil, their position on
sandy ground, and their general di-
rection satisfactorily prove that they
occupy their original site.

Eighty-three yards behind these
are the fragments of another coloam,
which, like the last, has been thrown
across the dromos it once adorned;
and if the nature of its materials did
not positively increase its beauty,
their novelty, at least, called on the
spectator to admire a statue of an
enormous mass of crystallised car-
bonate of lime. From this point you
readily perceive that the ground has
sunk beneath the vocal statue, which
may probably be partly owing to the
numerous excavations that have been
made at different times about its
base.

I believe that this drossos, or paved
approach to the temple, was part of
the " Royal Street " mentioned in
some papyri found at Thebes; which,
crossing the western portion of the
city from the temple, communicated,
by means ofa ferry, with that of

0010881. —ms 0’ TH] LAND.

 

861

Lusor, founded by the same Amn-
nopb,on theother side of the river;
as the great dromos of sphinsss, con-
nectin the temples of Luaor and
Ker , formed themain strestin the
eastern district of Thebes.

4. use or us urn.

It msynot besmiss to observe, with
regard to the original position of the
two colossi, and the rise of the alluvhl
soil at their beau—lat. That the
dromoa descended by a gradual talus
of about 9 inches in 33 feet, follow-
ing the precise slope which the land
(Lea took, from the present “per, or
edge of the desert, to the colossi. This
is, according to the level of the sur-
rounding plain; for at the statu-
themselves a shallow watercourse
makes a slight diﬂ‘erence, which,
however, is not to be estimated in
order to obtain the actual surface of
the alluvial deposit: — 2d. That
their pedestals stand upon built sub-
structions of sandstone, lying 3 feet
10 inches below the ties sutfsos of
the soil, or, which was the same, the
level of the paved dromos: — 31!.
That the pedestal was butied 3 feet
to inches below the dromos, owing
to the irregular form of its lower
side: — 4th. That the pavement and
thebasesof the colossi reatednoton
alluvial but on a sandy soil, over
which the mud ofthe inundation has
since been deposited, and that, con-

uently, the Nile, during its riu,
m not, at that epoch, even reach
the level of the dromos: -— 5th. That
the alluvial deposit has since risen to
the height of 6 feet to inches dose
the surface of the dromos' pavement;
that the highest water-mark is now
7 feet 3 inches above the same pave-
ment; and that, consequently, the
Nile must overﬂow a very great pars
tion of land throughout Egypt which
was formerlyohoee the reach ofitl
inundation. This is contrary to the
theories of several person, who, cal-
culating only the elevation of the

