 

108 some 6. —ALsmnau T0 arm; AND camo. Sect. I.

rise of the Pasha during his career in
Esm-
The Mahmoodéeh follows part of
the ancient Canopic branch of the
Nile, and the old canal of Fooah;
and here and there, near its banks,
are the remains of ancient towns.
The most remarkable in its immediate
vicinity are those (supposed to be) of
Schedia,hetween Karioén and Nishoo.
Beginning a short way inland from
the telegraph or the former, they ex-
tend about three quarters of a mile to
the south end of the large mounds of
Nishoo, and contain confused remains
of stone and brick, among which are
two fragments of stone (apparently
parts of the same block), hearing the
name of the Great Remeses, and
some capitals and fragments of late
time. 'The most remarkable object is
a series of massive walls in an isolated
mound, 300 paces to the south-east-
ward of these fragments, which Mr.
Salt conjectured to be the docks of
the state barges, kept at Schedia; but
they were evidently cisterns, like those
in Italy and at Carthage. They are
of Roman time, built of stone, with
horizontal courses of the usual ﬂat
bricks or tiles. at intervals, and but-
tresses projecting here and there, to
give them greater strength; the whole
originally covered with a casing of
stucco. The walls were about six-
teen in number, of which twelve may
be still distinctly seen, and the spaces
between them were about 215 feet
long, and 27 bread. The walls are
now about 15 feet high. The ex-
tremity of each gallery or cistern is
rounded off, and we may suppose that
they had arched roofs. A canal or
branch of the river appears to have
run through the level space, about
750 feet broad, between them and the
town. The distance of Nishoo from
Alexandria agrees exactly with that
given by Strabo from Schedia to that
city, which he calculates at 4 schemes,
or nearly 14 English miles.

Schedia was so called by the Greeks,
from the banier, or bridge of boats,

 

that closed the river at this spot, where
'duties were levied on all merchandise
that passed; and the name of Nishoo,
applied to the neighbouring mounds
and the modern village, seems to be
derived from the Egyptian aislaoi,
signifying “ the boats.” The mounds
of Nishoo are in four almost parallel
lines, the two outer ones about 250,
the centre two about 756 feet apart.
They contain no traces of building;
they appear to be entirely of earth,
though of very great height, and were
probably the result of excavations,
made in deepening the river. or the
neighbouring canal, which, from the
low space separating the two centre
mounds, appears to have passed be-
tween them.

Schedia was a bishop's see in the
time of Atlianasius, as were Menela'is
and Andropolis.

At Kariotin is a manufactory of
glass, and a little more than a mile
farther is another of pottery. The
canal in the vicinity of _l_(ari06n in-
creases in breadth. Chereu, in Coptic
Chereus, stood near this; and An-
thylla and Archandra in the plain
between the Mahmoodéeh and Lake
Etko.

About 3; miles from ISarioén is
the village of Birket Ghuttés or El
Birkeh (“ the Lake"); and at Earl-a-
wee the road, which has thus far fol-
lowed the bank of the canal, turns off
to Damanhoér.

Near Igorrawea are mounds of an
old town of some extent, and others
are seen in the plain to the south. A
few miles farther, the canal makes a
bend northwards to Atfeh; quitting
the bed of an old canal, which joined
the Nile farther to the south, just
below (3' liahinanéeh.

Atfelt.— On reaching Atfeh there is
sometimes a delay in obtaining per-
mission to pass through the locks to
the Nile. The new arrangements are
French, and nothing is done without
signatures or seals of officials. Six
seals are required here, the last being
that of the Bey, who is not always to

