 

176

made of salt and nitre. which, by di-
recting the water of the river upon
them, were afterwards dissolved with-
out human aid, when the work was
completed. This cannot be true:
but the same number of hands that
raised the mounds removed the whole
to the original place whence they
were brought. For it is reported
that 360,000 men were employed in
this work, and the time occupied in
ﬁnishing the whole was scarcely less
than twenty years.

“On the death of this king, his
brother Cephren succeeded to the
throne, and reigned ﬁfty-sis years.
Some say he was his son, by name
Chabry’is, and not his brother. All,
however, agree that on his acces-
sion, wishing to emulate his predeces-
sor, he built the second pyramid, simi-
lar to the other in its style of building,
but far inferior in sise, each face being
only one stade in length at its base.
0n the larger one is inscribed the
sum spent in herbs and esculent roots
for the workmen, amounting to, up-
wards of 1600 talents. The smaller
one has no inscription, but on one side
steps are cut to ascend it. Of the two
kings who raised these monuments
for themselves, neither one nor the
other was destined to be buried there-
in. The people, who had endured
so much fatigue in building them, and
had been oppressed by their cruelty
and violence, threatened to drag their
bodies from their tombs, and tear
them to pieces; so that these princes
at their death ordered their friends to
bury them privately in some other sc-
cret place.

“ After them came Mycerinus, or,
as some call him, Mecherinus, the son
of the founder of the great pyramid.
He built the third, but died previous
to its completion. Each side was
made three plethrs long at the base,
with (a casin of) black stone, similar
to that called Theba'ic, as far as the
ﬁfteenth tier, therest being completed
with stone of the same quality as the
other pyramids. Though inferior in

01130. — nxcuasron 4.

 

SectIL

size to the others, it is superior in its
style of building, and the nality of
the stone. 0n the north de is in-
scribed the name of its founder, My-
cerinus. This. king, avoiding the
cruelty of his predecessors, exercised
great benevolence towards his sub-
jects, and courted their good will by
his ju.ticee e a a a

“ There are also three other pyra-
mids; each side of which measures
two plethra. In their style of build-
ing they are similar to the preceding,
and differ only in their dimensions:
and they are stated to have been built
by the above-mentioned kings as as-
pulchres for their queens. There is
no doubt that the pyramids surpass
all other monuments in Egypt; and
the architects are thought to deserve
more credit than the kings at whose
expense they were made. . . . . But
neither the natives, nor writers, are
agreed respecting the names of their
founders; some attributing them to
the above-named, others to different
princes; the largest, for instance, to
Atnneus, the second to Amasis, the
third to Inaron, or, as some pretend,
to the courtesan Rhodopis."

Strabo, in describing the pyramids,
says, “ Forty stadia from the city (of
Memphis) is a brow of hills on which
many pyramids stand, the sepulchres
of kings. Three of them are re-
markable, and two are reckoned
among the wonders of the world.
They are both a stadium in height, of
a square ﬁgure, and their height is
little more than the breadth of the
sides; but one is rather larger than
the other. Near the centre of the
sides is a stone which can be taken
out, from which a passage leads to
the tomb. The two (large pyramids)
are near each other on the same plain;
and at some distance on a more ele-
vated part of the hill is the third,
smaller than the other two, but built
in a more costly manner. From the
base to about the middle, it is of black
stone, of which they make mortars,
brought from the mountains of

