 

78

men who belong to it. This society
has a public treasury, and is superin-
tended by a president, one of the
priesthood, whose oﬂice, having been
established by the Ptolemies, con-
tinues under Caesar.

“ Another portion of the palace is
called Sousa (‘ the body '), which con-
tains within its circuit the tombs of
the kings, and of Alexander. For
Ptolemy, the son of Lagus, took the
body of Alexander from Perdiccas,
while on its removal from Babylon;
and having carried it to Egypt, buried
it at Alexandria, where it still re-
mains. But it is no longer in the
same coﬂin; for the present one is of
glass, and the original, which was of
gold, was stolen by Ptolemy su rnamed
Coccea (Kansas) and Parisactus
(newness-cs}, though his immediate
fall prevented his beneﬁting by the
robbery.

“On the right as you sail into the
great harbour are the island and tower
of Phsros ; on the left, rocks, and the
promontory of Lochias, where the
palace stands; and, as you advance on
the left, contiguous to the buildings
at the Lochias, are the inner palaces,
which have various compartments and
groves. Below them is a secret and
closed port, belonging exclusively to
the kings, and the Isle of Antirhodus,
which lies before the artiﬁcial port,
with a palace, and a small harbour.
It has received this name as if it were
a rival of Rhodes. Above this is the
theatre, then the Posidium, a certain
cove lying 08' what is called the Em-
porium, with a temple of Neptune.
Antony, having made a mole in this
part projecting still further into the
port, erected at its extremity a palace,
which he named Timonium. This
he did at the end of his career; a hen
he had been deserted by his friends,
alter his misfortunes at Actium, and
had retired to Alexandria, intending
to lead a secluded life there, and imi-
tate the example of Timon. Beyond

arethe Ccsarium and emporium (mar-
ket), the recesses, and the docks, ex-

aoum 1. — ALEXANDRIA -.-— masons.

 

Sect. I.

tending to the Heptastadium. All
these are in the great harbour.

“ On the other side of the Heptasta-
dium is the port of Eunostus; and
above this is an artiﬁcial or excavated
one, called Kibotus (the basin), which
has also docks. A navigable canal
runs into it from the lake Mareotis,
and a small portion of the town ex-
tends beyond (to the W. of) this ca-
nal. Farther on are the Necropolis and
the suburbs, where there are many
gardens and tombs, with apartments
set apart for emhalming the dead.
Within (to the E. of) the canal are
the Sarapium, and other ancient fanes,
deserted since the erection of the tem-
ples at NicOpolis, where also the am-
phitheatre and stadium are situ-
ated, and where the quinquennial
games are celebrated; the old esta-
blishments being now in little repute.
The city, indeed, to speak brieﬂy, is
ﬁlled with ornamental buildings and
temples, the most beautiful of which
is the Gymnasium, with porticoea in
the interior, measuring upwards of a
stade. There, too, are the courts of
law, and the groves; and in this di-
rection stands the Panium, an arti-
ﬁcial height of a conical form, like a
stone tumulus, with a spiral ascent.
From its summit the whole city may
be seen, stretching on allsides below.

“ From the Necropolis a street ex-
tends the whole way to the Canopic
gate, passing by the Gymnasium. Be-
yond are the Hippodrome and other
buildings, reaching to the Canopic
canal. After going out (of the city) by
the Hippodrome, you come to Nico-
polis, built by the sea-side, not less than
three stades distant from Alexandria.
Augustus Catsar ornamented this
place, in consequence of his having
there defeated the partisans of Antony,
and captured the city in his advance
from that spot."

. Pliny, in speaking of the founda-
tion of Alexandria, says, it was“ built
by Alexander the Great on the Afri-
can coast, 12 miles from the Canopic
mouth of the Nile, on the Mareotic

