U.Egypt.

praerrstion of the interior part of
the tomb, which wss eﬂ'ectuslly goes
renteed from the destructive inroed
of the rein-water, whose torrent its
depth completely intercepted; e feet
which e storm some yesrs ego. by
the hevock ceused in the inner chun-
bers, sedly demonstrsted.

The hollow sound of the well of
rnesonry shore mentioned. end s smell
eperture betrsyed to Behoni the
secret of its hidden chemhers; end
e pslm tree, supplying the place of
the more clessic tern, soon forced the
intermediate berrier; whose breech
displsyed the splendour of the sue-
ceeding hell, at once estonishing end
delighting its discoverer, whoa ls-
hours were so gratefully repaid. But
this wes not the only pert of the tomb
thst wes closed: the outer door wes
elso blocked up with mesonry; end
the staircase before it wes concealed
by sccumulstcd fragments, and by
the certh thst had fellcn from the hill
sbore. And it wss the sinking of
the ground st this pert, from the
water thst Ited soaked through into
the tomb, that led the peesents to
suspect the secret of its position;
which was first mentioned to Dr.
Riippell, end sherwerds to Belsoni.

 

nmom’e TOD.

 

The four pillers of the ﬁrst hell '
'took so much cue to concul the

beyond the pit, which support I roof
about 96 feet squere. ere decoreted,
like the sshole of the wells, with
highly-ﬁnished end well-preserved
sculptures, which from their virid
colours sppeer but the work of yester-
dsy; end near the centre of the inner
well n few steps lesd to e second
hell, of similer dimensions, supported
by two pillsrs, but left in en un-
ﬁnished stele. the sculptors not hering
yet commenced the outline of the
figures the dreughtsmen hsd butjust
completed. it is here thet the ﬁrst
deviations from the genus! line of
direction occur; which sre still more
remsrltehlc in the steircsse thet de-
scends st the southern corner of the
ﬁrst hell.

To this lest succeed two pet-g”.

 

867

end a chsmber 17 feet by ".m-
municeting by e door, nearly in the
centre of its inner well, with tings-end
hell, which is 97 feet squere. sup-
ported by sis pillers. On either side
is a smell chsmber, opposite the engle
of the ﬁrst pillsrs. end the upper end
terminetes in s vaulted saloon, [9 feet
by 30, in whose centre stood en ele-
bester sercophsgus, the eenoteph of
the decessed monerch, upon the im-
mediete summit of en inclined plsne,
which, with e steireese on either side,
descends into the beers of the ergil-
lsceous rock for n distsnce of ISO
feet. When Belsoni Opened this tomb
it extended much ferther; but the
rock, which from its frisble nsture
could only he escevsted by supporting
the roof with sesli‘olding, hes since
fallen, end curteiled e still pester
portion of its origins! length.

This passage, like the entrenee of
the tomb end the ﬁrst hell. wes closed
end conceeled by it well of mssonry,
which, coming even with the bese of
the sercophegus, eotnpletely meshed
the stsircese ; end covered it with en
srtilicisl ﬂoor.

I do not imegine tltet the secred
person of en Egyptien kin would be
exposed to the inviting station of
these sarcophegi, especielly when they

bodies of inferior subjects. It is
true the entrence was closed, but the
position of e monerch's tomb would
be known to many besides the priest-
hood, snd treditionelly remembered
by others; some of whom, in inter
times, might not be proof egeinst the
temptstion of such rich plunder. 'Dre
priests must et leest here foreseen
the chence of this; end we know thet
msny of the tombs were plundered
in very eerly times; severel were the
resting-piecesofleteroccupents; some
were burnt and reoccupied (probebly
at the time of the Per'sisn inrssion);
end others were usurped by Greeks.

Some of the sepulcbresofthe kings
were open fromsrery remote period.
end seen by Greek end Romeo visit-

e 4

