 

284

sonable Copt, immediately rejects
this statement as a glaring impos-
aibility; and the question, “ What
can our St. George have to do with
England?” might perples the most
plausible, or the most pious, of the
Crusaders.

Nearly opposite Bibbeh is Shelth
Aboo Near, the site of an ancient
village; and beyond it the position of
some old towns are marked by the
mounds of Sits, Miniet e' Geer, and
Feshn. A little higher up the river,
on the east bank, behind the island
that lies half way between Feshn and
el Feat, is el Hiybee, or Medeenet-
e’ Gahil, where some remains mark
the site of a small town of consider-
able antiquity. They consist of crude
brick walls, and remains of houses.
On the north side is a large mess of
building of some height, founded on
the rock, but probably of later date
than the walls of the town. It is
built of smaller brick, and between
every fourth course are layers of reeds,
serving as binders. Behind this, a
short distance out of the town, is an
isolated uare enclosure surrounded
by a cm 0 brick wall; and in the
centre of the open space it encloses,
is a grotto or cavern cut in the rock,
probably sepulchral, a tomb being
also found between this and the wall
of the town. The tombs are pro-
bably of a later time than the build-
ings themselves. Near the water’s
edge are the remains of a stone quay ;
and some fragments of nnsculptured
blocks are met with in different places.
But the most remarkable feature in
the ruins at el Haybee is the style of
the bricks in its outer walls, which
have two hieroglyphic legends stamped
upon them, sometimes one contain-
ing the oval of a king, sometimes
another, with the name of a high-
priest of Amun.

That the town existed, also, in
Roman time is proved by the frag-
ments of mouldings found there.
Some of the stamped bricks have been
lately burnt, and used by Ahmed

ROUTE 21. —Anoo-emenn 'ro nﬁvma.

 

mt. m.

Pasha for some modern buildings;
which accounts for the unusual ap-
pearance of burnt bricks of early
Egyptian time. May this be the site
of Alyi or of Hipponon ?

At Malatéﬁb are other mounds,
and at the south-west corner of Gebel
Shelth Embarah is an old ruined town,
long since deserted, which aﬂ‘ords one
of many proofs that the Egyptians
availed themselves of similar situa-
tions, with the double view of saving
as much arable land as possible, when
a town could be placed on an un-
productive though ually convenient
spot, and of establis ing a command-
ing post at the passes between the
mountains and the Nile.

Gebel Shekh Embdrak is a lolly
table mountain, approaching very
close to the river, and detached from
the main chain of the Gebel cl Baum,
which stretches far inland to the
south-east. After this follow a suc-
cession of low hills to Gebel e’ Tayr.
A little above El Mersgha (or Meg-
ha ha), on the same bank, is the
H gar e' Salem, or “ stone of wel-
fare," a rock in the stream near the
share, so called from an idea of the
boatman, “that a journey down the
Nile cannot be accounted prosperous
until after they have passed it.” The
mountains here recede from the Nile
to the eastward; and at Shardna are
the mounds of an ancient town, perhaps
Pseneros or Shenero. Pococke sup-
poses it to be Muss or Muson. The
sites of other towns may also be seen
on the opposite side of the river, as at
Abs, three or four miles inland, and
at Aboo-Girgeh some distance to the
south. A few miles above Sharéna,
on the east bank, is Kom Ahmar,
“ the red mound," with the remains
of brick and masonry, perhaps of
Muson, and a few rude grottoes.
To the east of this are several dog
mummy pits, and the vestiges of an
ancient village, in the vicinity of
Hamétha. At Aboo- Girgela (or Aboo
Girg) are extensive mounds. It is
still a large felldh town, situated in a

