 

 

U. Egypt.

prostrate themselves before the Egyp-
tian monarch. A continuation of these
presents follows in the third line,
where, besides rings of gold, and
bags of precious stones or gold dust,
are the cameleopard, panthers’ skins,
and long-horned cattle, whose heads
are strangely ornamented with the
hands and heads of negroes.

In the upper line, the queen of the
same people arrives in a chariot drawn
by oxen, and overshadowed by an
umbrella, accompanied by her atten-
dants, some of whom bear presents of

M. She alights, preceded and fol-

owed by the principal persons of her
suite, and advances to the presence of
the king ; but whether this refers to
any marriage that was contracted
between the Egyptian monarch and a
princess of Ethiopia, or merely to the
annual tribute paid by that people, I
have not been able to decide. Among
the different presents are a chariot,
shields covered with bulls'hides bound
with metal borders and studded with
pins, chairs, couches, headstools. and
other objects. The dresses of the ne-

ditl‘er in the upper line from those
below, the latter having partly the
costume of the Egyptians, with the
plaited hair of their national head-
dress; but those who follow the car of
the princess are clad in skins, whose
projecting tail, while it heightens the
caricature the artist doubtless intended
to indulge in, proves them to be
persons of an inferior station, who
were probably brought as slaves to the
Egyptian monarch. Behind these
are women of the same nation, hear.
ing their children in a kind of basket
suspended to their back.

Ethiopian and Negro slaves were
common in Egypt from a very remote
time, long before the era of Amu-
noph III. ; and it is highly probable
that a tribute, as well of slaves as of
gold, ivory, ebony, wild animals,
skins, and other productions of the
South, was continually exacted from
the land of Cosh. Indeed it seems
that the captives of their northern

SLAVE! ARI) PRESENTS.

 

‘—

 

879

wars were also doomed 'to a similar
fate, and that, like the servi or servati
of the Romans, and the prisoners of
some nations of modern as well as
ancient times, they purchased their
lives by the sacriﬁce of freedom.

Many other interesting subjects
cover the walls of this tomb. which
throw much light on the customs of
the Egyptians; but I fear it has been
lately destroyed.

In another catacomb, unfortunately
much ruined, is a spirited chase, in
which various animals of the desert
are admirably designed. The fox,
hare, gazelle. ihex, etiel (Antelope
oryx), ostrich, and wild ox ﬂy before
the hounds; and the porcupine and
hymns retire to the hi ht-r pattof the
mountains. The fema e hymns alone
remains, and rises to defend her
young; but most of the dogs are
represented in pursuit of the gazelles,
or in the act of seizing those they
have overtaken in the plain. The
chasseur follows, and discharges his
arrows among them as they ﬂy. The
arrows are very light. being made
of reed, feathered, and tipped with
stone.

In observing the accuracy with
which the general forms and charac-
ters of their animals are drawn, one
cannot but feel surprised that the
Egyptians should have had so im-
perfect a knowledge of the art of
representing the trees and ﬂowers of
their country, which, with the ex-
ception of the lotus, palm, and dom,
can scarcely everbe identiﬁed; unless
the fruit, as in the pomegranate and
sycamore, is present to assist us.

Thu-be of Shell AM cl goat-ad.—
The arcs! aux-ems end interesting
grotto” are those in the hill of She“
AM at [foot-uh, behind the hlcmno-
nium; but as a detailed account of
their sculpture would extend beyond
the proposed limits of my description
of Thebes. I can only notice brieﬂy
the principal subjects of those most
worthy of a visit. The most inter-
esting are Nos. 1. 9. 5.11.14.16-

