 

 

395W-

hailt of granite, some red, some grey,
of a very beautiful quality, and cover-
ed with sculptures, in intaglio and in
reﬁef. Many of the blocks are of
very greatsise; and though the tem-
ple b been entirely destroyed, and
ti- btohen stones forcibly torn from
thir places, and thrown in the great-
au confusion one upon the other, it
is may to form an idea of its former
magniﬁcence. It is entirely of gra-
nite—walls, columns, roofs, and door-
ways; aﬁ'ording a striking instance
ofthe use of this stone in the Delta;
for though the buildin is so large, no
block of the ordinary ﬁinds employed
in Upper Egypt has here been ad-
mitted. The whole appears to have
been erected by Ptolemy Philadel-
irhua, whose name occurs in all the
dedications, and who alone is seen
presenting oﬂ'erings to the gods. The
principal divinities are Isis, (the deity
of the place, who has always the title
“Lady of Hehai-t;") Osiris,(who fre.
quently accompanies her, and is gene-
rally called “ Lord of Hebai-t ;”)
Anubis, Sarah, (the crocodile-heeded
goth) and some others whose le nds
are lost, and who may possib y be
characters of Osiris.

Unfortunately it has been so com-
pletely destroyed that the plan cannot
easily be recognised ; and such is the
mass of broken blocks, that you can

down amongst them to the depth
of 12 and IS feet; below which are
the numerous abodes of jackals, hares,
and other animals, who alone rejoice
in the ruinous state to which this
building has been reduced. Nothing
seems to be in its original position.
The door-ways are seen, as well as
parts of cornices, ceilings, architrares,
and walls; but all in confusion, and
hurled from their places; and one is
surprised at the force and labour that
must hare been used for the destruc-
tion of this once splendid building.
The ceilings have been studded with
the usual hse pointed Egyptian stars.
'Dre cornices have the Egyptian tri-

noun 1 l. — Bananas-mean.

 

 

227

tween them; but in some the name of
“ leis, the beautiful mother-goddess "
is substituted for the royal prenomen,
and is accompanied by the nomen of
Ptolemy.

On one of the walls, about the cen-
tre of the temple, is represented the
sacred boat, or ark, of Isis; and in
the shrine it bears is the “ Lady of
Hebaiot," seated between two ﬁgures
of goddesses, like the Jewish Cheru-
bim, who seem to protect her with
their wings. They occur in two com-
partments, one over the other, at the
centre of the shrine; and these ﬁgures
were doubtless the holy and unseen
contents of the sacred repository,
which no profane eye was permitted
to behold, and which were generally
covered with a veil. In the upper
one Isis is seated on a lotus flower,
and the two ﬁgures are standing; in
the other all three are seated, and be.
low are four kneeling ﬁgures, one
with a man's, the other three with
jackais' heads, beating their breasts.
At either end of the boat is the head
of the goddess, and the legend above
shows it to have belonged to her. The
king stands before it, presenting an
offering of incense to isis. The stone
has been broken, and part of the pic.
ture has been taken away; but on a
fragment below, that appears to have
belonged to it, is represented a sledge
on trucks with the usual ring attached
to the end. for drawing it into the
silos, of which this doubtless marks
the site. it was probably one of
those isolated sanctuaries, that stood
near the centre of the acres, or body of
the temple.

The sculptures on this wall, as on
some other portions of the building,
are in relief,—an unusual mode of
sculpturing granite, which shows the
great espense and labour bestowed on
the temple of the goddess, and the
importance of her temple. That it
was very handsome is evident; and to

. it mi ht be applied the remark made

by l erodotus respecting the mist.

m with us. out. of the In... t... or Bubastis—thlt gum: w- hrs"-
I.

