 

162

two-thirds above the highest part of
the column.

According to the Cairenes, the
Nile is supposed to have risen 18
cubits when the canals are cut, which
is called Wulfa el Bahr. After this
the criers call 2 from 18, to 28 from
18, then l9, and so on; but no one
believes they state the ties of the river
correctly. The lowest inundation is
reckoned at 18; 19 is tolerable (ate-
uéseb), 20 good, 2| sufﬁcient, 99
ﬁlls every canal, and is termed perfect
(tundra), but 24 would overwhelm
every thing, and do great injury to
the country.

It appears that the discordant ac-
counts of the rise of the river, and of
the Nilometer, are owing to the base
or standard level, from which the in-
undation is measured, having varied
at different times, or to their not
having taken into consideration the
elevation of the bed of the river; and
we may conclude that the water now
rises exactly to the same proportionate
level as formerly, and will continue
to do so for ages to come. M. Savary,
M. Dolomieu, and other sevens, have
long since announced the miseries
that await Egypt, from the accumu-
lating deposit of the Nile, and the
consequent rise of the soil. M. Dolo-
mieu has decided that, owing to the
decomposition of the granite moun-
tains, by whose summits the clouds
are retained, which pour down the
torrents that supply the Nile, the rise
of this river has already diminished :
M. Savory states, that the villages of
the Delta no longer present the ap-
pearance of islands in the sea, as
Herodotus had observed in his time:
and M. Larcher concludes, that if the
soil has tisen, the water must cover
a less extent of land. M. Dolomieu
must allow a considerable time for the
eﬂ‘ect he proposes: and even admitting
a diminution in the height of those
mountains, in some thousand years,
the rainy season will afford as large
a supply of water as ever, the relative
positions and heights remaining the

camo. — axouastox l.

 

Sect. 11.

same. M. Savary’s notion is only
founded on the ﬁrst, that‘he never saw
the Delta as Herodotus describes it ;
but many travellers at the pres'ent
day have been more fortunate. Such
theories are completely overthrown
by the actual rise of the Nile over a
plain raised about seven feet in the
last 1700 years: and every one will
perceive that this perpendicular height
of seven feet must carry the water in
a horizontal direction to a considerable
distance E. and W. over the ‘once un-
cultivated aud unwatered slope of the
desert. In answer to the assertion
of the learned Larcher, that “the
soil of Egypt is not higher now than
in the time of Herodotus,” I re-
fer the traveller to the statues of
Amenoph at Thebes. The fact is, the
soil and the bed of the Nile have
both risen, and in the same propor-
tion.

Diodorus would seem to afﬁrm,
that the ﬁrst Nilometer in the time of
the Pharaonic kings was erected at
Memphis; which is repeated by Arab
historians. Herodotus speaks of the
measurement of the river’s rise under
Maris, and at the period he visited
Egypt: a Nilometer is mentioned at
Eilethyas, of the time of the Ptole-
mies: that of Elephantine is described
by Strabo: and from the insctiptions
remaining there, we know it to have
been used in the reigns of the early
Roman emperors. A moveable Ni-
lometer was preserved till the time of
Constantine, in the temple of Sarapis
at Alexandria, and was then transfer-
red to a church in that city, where it
remained until restored to the Sara-
peum by Julian. Theodosius aller-
wards removed it again, when that
building was destroyed by his order.
The ﬁrst Nilometer built in Egypt,
after the Arab conquest, is ascribed
to Abd cl Azeés, brother of the Ca-
liph Abd el Melek , erected at Helwﬁn
about the year 700; but being found
not to answer there, a new one was
made by Soolayman, son of that
prince, in the Isle of Roda. Mamoon

