£9»!-

tory." And in order still more to
bonourthatspomheconqueroradorned
it with numerous ﬁne buildings and
pleas of public resort, which induced
many personstoprefer it for an abode
to Alexandria itself. He also estab-
lished quinquennial games there, simi-
lar to those at another city of thesame
name built by him in Epitus, to com-
memorate the victory of Actium. It is
now marked by an old Roman station,
called Casar's Camp, and fragments
of , columns, and marble
mouldings. The Hippodrome may
also be looked for on this side of the
town, and S. Mancini thinks that he
has traced its ﬁgure in the plain be-
yond the French lines, 2800 metres
(nearly llmiles) from the Rosetta gate,
and about 250 metres from the sea.

here was also a Circus in the vi-
cinity of Pompey's Pillar, which I
shall have occasion to mention.

The site of the Canopic canal may
be partly found in that of the Mah-
moodé'e'h. It was on the right as you
went out of the gate, ﬂowing into the
lake. and communicating with the
town of Canopus. The water that
supplied Alexandria was furnished by
this canal from the Nile, and partly
from the rains which fell in winter.
But the principal supply was, as may
be supposed, derived from the canal,
and was preserved in cisterns or reser-
voirs. constructed beneath the houses.
These cisterns were often of consider-
able size, having their roofs supported
by rows of columns, vaulted in btick
or stone. Being built of solid mate-
rials. and well stuccoed, they have in
many instances remained perfect to

this day; and some continue even'

now to be used for the same pur-
pose by the modern inhabitants. The
water is received into them during the
inundation, and the cistern being
cleansed every year, previous to the

noun 1. — mm —- muss.

 

 

admission of a fresh supply. the water I

always remains pure and ﬁt
some, steps are made in the side; in
others. men descend by an Opening in

in'

 

91

lowering them by ropes, as for draw-
ing out the water, which is carried on
camels to the city.

Reservoirs of the same kind are
also found in the convents that stand
on the site of the old town : and se-
veral wells connected with them may
be seen outside the walls, in going to-
wards the Mahmoodé'éb canal. They
show the direction taken by the chan-
nels, that conveyed the water to the
cisterns in the town. One set of
them runs parallel to the eastern exit
of the Mshmoodééh, another is below
the hill of Pompcy's Pillar, and ano-
ther a little less than half way from
this to the former line. It was by
means of these cisterns that Gany.
medes, during the war between Julius
Caesar and the Alexandrians, con-
trived to distress the Romans, having
turned the sea water into all those
within the quarter they occupied ; an
evil which Cesar found great difficulty
in remedying, by the imperfect sub-
stitute of wells.

9. Panes-r Ilsatauts or strainer
Aussunats.— The most striking
monuments of ancient Alexandria
are the well-known obelisk. and
l’ompcy‘s Pillar. The former are
the same which, as already shown,
Pliny mentions before the temple
of Cwsar, and which he supposes
to have been cut and sculptured
by Mesphres. In this, indeed, he is
not far from the truth, since the
Pharaoh whose ovals they hear was
the third Thothmes; and it is remark-
able that the names nf two kings who
lived about that period, the ﬁrst and
second I‘hothmes, are written in Ms-
netho‘s list as Mesphra-‘l‘hothmosis.
In the lateral lines are the ovals of
Remeses the Great. the supposed 3e-

Isomtris, and additional columns of
. hieroglyphit's at the angles of the

lower part present that of a later hing,
apparently Osirei ll., the third suc-
cessor of the great llemesca.

They stood originally at Heliopolis,
and were brought to Alexandria by

the roof, and this serves as well for one of the Ca-sats; though fame has

