 

U. Egypt-

13. rostas or raters-s, aim ratva-rx
tantvtnusu.

If I could ﬁx on any part of this
vast abode of death, where the most
ancient tombs are exclusively met
with, I should not hesitate in com-
mencing my notice of them in the
order of their relative antiquity ; but
as some of a remote epoch are con-
tinually intermixed with those of more
recent date, it is impossible to ﬁx
with precision the exact extent of the
earliest cemeteries. It is likewise dif-
ﬁcult to determine the particular
portions set apart for the sepulture
of the members of the various castes
into which the Egyptians were divided,
since those of the same class are
found in more than one part of its
extensive circuit. Some general no.
tions may. however, be formed on this
head, by looking over my Survey of
Thebes. others must be given in the
following pages, where i shall also
notice those kings whose names ap-
pearing in the sculptures tix. in some
degree, the epoch at which several
portions of this burial-ground were
consecrated to the reception of the
dead. But in many of them all clue
to the determination of this fact is en-
tirely lost, by the decay of the sculp-
tures, or the fall of the stucco on
which they were painted; and what
increases our regret on this point, is
that these fallen annals, from their
relating to the most ancient epoch,
were by far the most interestin .
Among the last it is highly probable

PRIVATE TOMS—m ARCH.

 

that those situated north of Old
l_{oorneh are deserving of the first
rank, as well from the total disap- '
rance of the stucco which once ,
ined their walls. as from the state of ;
the rock itself. their situation oppo- '
site Karnak (the main and ori 'nal .
put of Diospulis), and their victnity
to the river. I must also observe,
that many tombs are occasionally 1
ﬁlled up, or destroyed by the pea-
sants; sothatsomethatlamgoingS

todescribemay no longerbevisible.‘

 

875

In the reign of Amunoph 1., second
king of the eighteenth dynasty, other
grottoes were excavated in the Drab
Aboo N990. behind the temple of
Old Eoorneh,—one or two in the
Assaseef,—and several others in the
valley of Dayr el Mede‘neh, which,
bein the westernmost, were consio
de more peculiarly under the pro-
tection of Athor, the “presidentof
the West;" who is frequently there
represented either receiving the Sun
into her arms, coming forth under the
form ofa cowfrom behind the“Wes-
tern Mountain,“ or standing between
the ﬁgures of the man and lady ofthe
tomb. She been her emblems, the
long horns and feathers, which com-
pose her usual head-dress.

The friable nature of the rock in
part of this valley urged the necessity
of lining the roofs of some of these
grottoes with vaults of brick, which,
while they point out the dryness of
a climate that permits crude-brick
to stand uninjured through a period
of 3370 years, establish the antiquity
of the invention of the arch.

These tombs are generally small;
sometimes the sculptures are cut in
the rock itself, sometimes traced on
the stucco that covers its irregular
surface, and some have only fresco
paintings on the crude~briclt walls
which case the interior. The facility
of working this rock may have in-
duced them to select it for the tombs
of those who objected to more expen-
sive excavations; and it is reasonable
to suppose. that being in the habit of
constructing their houses with brick

, vaults, they would Mploy a similar

covering to the chambers of thedead 5
especially when they required the pro-
tection of a roof against the crumb.
ling of the soft argillaceous stratum,
in which the have been excavated,

land which ormsthebeseofthe

limestone mountains of Thebes.

in the succeeding reigns of the
Thothmes and Amunophs, the hill of
Abd el Enamels, Koornet Hurraee,
and part of Drab Aboo Neal. were

