 

BOUT]! 16. — use

the cultivated land of the Arsino'ite
nome is attested, but by the traces of
gardens and vineyards which are
met with on all sides of the l_(asr
Kharoon, whose roots now supply
the Arabs with fuel when passing
the night there.

To the north-east, on the shore of
Birket el l_{_orn, are vestiges of ma-
sonry, perhaps of the port (if it de-
serves the name) of this town; and
at the extreme point of the lake is a
mound, or small hill, upon which I
found an engraved cornelian seal,
and some other relics of Roman time.
To the north, about twelve miles
from the lake, is a lofty range of
limestone mountains, and behind
them is the ravine that joins, and
forms part of, the Bahr el Fargh, to
the west of the Natron Lakes.

Returning to Nésleh, a little to the
south of the road from the _l'_(asr Kha-
roon to the l_(asr el limit, you pass
a stone wall, the traces of vineyards,
and the channels of old canals, and a
little farther (on the direct road to
Nésleh), much pottery, and some
tombs. _l_(asr el Benst, " the palace
of the girls," is a small crude brick
ruin, of which the plans of three
Ms only can be traced ; the whole
measuring 30 paces by ID. Near it
is the site of an old town, with much
broken pottery. bricks, and other
fragments. One mile and a half to
the south are the mounds of llereét,
presenting the remains of brickwork,
but no ruins; and at the same dis-
tance beyond them is a stone wall,
near the large ravine or canal called
El \Védee (“ the valley”). About
ll mile below NésIeh are other
mounds, called Watféi‘h. and the
tomb of Shekh Abdel Bari. In the
ravine itself are the remains ofa wall,
partly brick, partly stone, which is
said to have been once used to re-
tain the water, like that of Tomé'e’h,
where there is a similar deep broad
channel. and where the large reservoir
of water, kept up by the dyke, has pro-
bably been made in imitation of the

Egypt-

 

 

xuanoox—onanex. 255
old artiﬁcial Lake Maris. At N‘s-
leh the ravine, from bank to bank.
measures 678 feet, and 100 in depth
from the top of the bank to the level
of the water in the channel at the
centre, which is 190 feet broad.

To the west of Nealeh are the sites
of two ancient towns, called Hardb
-t-el Yahood, “ the ruins of the Jews,”
and El Hammtm, “ the baths.”
Neither of them present an but
crude brick remains, and the ﬁner
was evidently inhabited till within a
few years by Moalems, whose mud
houses still remain. Medeenet Hati,
Medeenet Madi, and Hardb-t-e’ Ni-
sh‘n, have extensive mounds of
ancient towns, amidst which are
found fragments of limestone co-
lumns, bricks, pottery, glass, and a
few Roman coins.

El Claire-t. —About 20 miles fl'on't
Medeeneh to the 8. W. is El Gift-e1,
a town about 700 paces long, by 500
broad, protected against the Arabs by
a wall, furnished with loopholes and
projecting towers. Over the gateway
is some old sculpture, and parts of
small columns and pilastets; and I
observed other sculpture of similar
style in the wall of a house, evidently
taken from a Roman building. It
has no ruins, and the mound near it,
called Senooris, seems only to mark
the site of an older Arab village.
And though the stones on the west
side, from which the village has re-
ceived the pompous name of Me-
deenet el llaggar, “ the city of the
stone," once belonged to ancient
ruins, there is no vestige of building
that has any claim to anti uity. The
town stands at the edge 0?“: isolated
spot of arable land, surrounded by
the desert, and watered by a branch
of the canal that supplies the lands
about Nésleh and the western es-
tremity of the Fyoom. It is the land
that has given the name (ihéret,
“submerged." to the Village; doubt-
less from its having been esposed to
ﬂoods. by the lowness of its level,
when accidents have occurred to the

