 

INTRODUCTION.

 

a. Journey from England to Egypt. —b. Expenses to Egypt and India by
Pram—e. Steamers from Marseilles to Egypt—d. Steamers from
England by Gibraltar and Malta to Alexandria and lndia.—-e. Quarantine
returning born Egypt.

a. JOURNEY EEOH “GLAND TO EGYPT.

Ten most usual route from England to Egypt is by Gibraltar and
Malta, or through France by Paris and Marseilles, and thence to
Malta and Alexandria. There is another route through Germany
by the Danube to Constantinople, and thence by Syra to Alex-
andria, which has been described in the Handbooks of Southern
Germany, and of the East; and those who happen to be in the
vicinity of the Adriatic, and do not wish to cross Italy to Naples
or other ports in direct communication with Malta, may ﬁnd
their way by the Ionian Islands and Greece to Egypt; or by the
Austrian steamer direct from Trieste to Alexandria.

b. EXPENSES 1'0 EGYPT AND IEDIA BY FRANCE.

Though the expenses of a journey depend on the arrangements
made by the traveller, the following, for which I am indebted to a
gentleman who passed through France in 184], on his way to India.
may give some notion of the charges on the route by Cbiilons and
Lyons to Marseilles:

sh. ﬂ. sous. Aocordingtosnother Calculation.

 

 

Fare in steam boatto Boulogne 15 or 18 lo I}.
Expenses at Boulogne - 17 London to Paris- - 4
Passport, passing bag &c.19 In Paris - - - l
Diligence to Paris ans-gm ‘20 Paris to Chilons - 8
Extra for in ge by diligence 9 10 to Lyons - - 1
Posters to a from Meurice's 3 — to Avignon - 8
Heurice' s bill - - 16 to Marseilles - 2
Fare to Chilons by diligence - 4M —
Extra for luggage - 12 Total from Englr nd to
Porter at Chalons and expenses Marseilles - - H
on the reed - - - 6 Thence direct to Alex-
Bill at Chalons - - - l9 andria - - - 97
Servants at Chilons - 2 Alesandria to Sues - 15
Passage In steam-boat to Lyons 8 -—
Bill at Lyons - 20 Total from London to
Porters to and from hotel - 6 Sun - 56
Place In diligence to Marseilles 4| From Sues to Bombay
Luggage at Marseilles - 19 is from 52 to . - 72

 

Total from England to Marseilles 966 0 Making the total to
«no 12s. 9y. Bombay . - m
a 6

 

