 

150

thought to establish the credit for their
own nation by misrepresenting the
conduct of their enemies.

The Mooled e’ Nebbee. or “ birth-
day of the Pr0phet" Mohammad, is
a far of rejoicing, and offers many
an amusing scene. It was ﬁrst in-
stituted by Sultan Murad the son ol
Selim, known to us as Amurath UL,
in the year 996 of the Hegira, a. n.
1588. It is held in the Uzbekéiih
in the beginning of the month of Re-
hé'éh-el-owel, on the return of. the
pilgrims to Cairo; and from the
booths, swings, and other things
erected on the occasion, has rather
the appearance of a fair. It con-
tinues a whole week, beginning on
the 3d, and ending on the 11th, or
the night of the 12th, of the month,
the last being always the great day ;
the previous night having the name
of Layleh Mobémkeh, or “ blessed
night.” On this day the Siadé'e'h
derwishcs, the modern Psylli, go in
procession and perform many jug-
gling tricks with snakes,sonte of which
are truly disgusting; these fanatics
frequently tearing them to pieces with
their teeth, and assuming all the cha-
racter of maniacs. For the last two
years, however, this part of the per-
formance has been omitted, being too
gross for the public eye, in these days
of increasing civilisation; but fanati-
cism is not wanting to induce them,
as well as many bystanders, to degrade
themselves by other acts totally un-
worthy of rational beings, such as
could only be expected amongst
ignorant savages; and no Eutopean.
can witness the ceremony of the
Beach, which takes place in the aﬁer.
noon of the same day, without feelings
of horror and disgust. On this occa-
sion the shekh of the Siadé'e‘h, mounted
on horseback, and accompanied by the
clerwishes of various orders, with their
banners, goes in procession to the
Usheké’e’h, where between 200 and
300 fanatics having thrown them-2
selves prostrate on the ground, closely
wedged together, the shekh rides over

canto. — FESTIVALS.

 

Sect. II.
their bodies, the assembled crowd fre-
quently contending with each other to
obtain one of these degrading posts,

and giving proofs of wild fanaticism
which those who have not witnessed

it could not easily imagine. A grand
ceremony is also performed in the
evening at the house of their president,
the Shelth el Bekree, the reputed de-
scendant of Aboo Beltr e’ Siadéiih.

The Mooled el Hassanin, the birth-
day of the “two Hassans" (Hassan
and Hossayn), the sons of Ali, is cele-
brated for eight days about the 19th
of Rebech-‘l-akher, and is considered
the greatest ﬁts in Cairo, being of
the patron saints of the city. The
people go in crowds to visit their
tomb, where grand Ziltrs are per-
formed in their honour; the mosh
being brilliantly illuminated, as well
as the quarters in the immediate
neighbourhood; while the people in-
dulge in the usual amusements of
Eastern fairs.

The fits: of Saydeh Ziyneb, the
grand-daughter of the Prophet, and
other male and female shelths of Cairo,
are kept much in the same way, by
illuminating their respective moslta;
but are much less worth seeing than
the otdinary evening occupations of
the Moslems during the whole month
of Ramadan, which, to a person un-
derstanding the language. offer many
attractions. The bazaars are then
lighted up, and crowds of people sit
at the shops, enjoying themselves,
aﬂer the cruel fast of the day, by
conversation, and by listening to story
tellers; who, with much animation,
read or relate the tales of the Thou-
aand-and-one Nights, or other of
the numerous stories for which the
Arabs have been always famed.

b. b. m: usotcran.

One of the first lions which the
traveller inquires after, on arriving
at Cairo, is the magician, 'who has
become noted for certain perform-
ances through a supposed superna-
tural power, by which ﬁgures are

