 

76

later times as Berenice, Nechesia, and
Leucos Portus.

The commercial intercourse with
the N. of Arabia, Syria, and the parts
of Asia to the N. and N. E. of Egypt,
was established by means of caravans,
which entered Egypt by the Isthmus
of Sues; and it was with one of these,
on its way from Syria, that the Ish-
maelites travelled, who brought Joseph
into Egypt. They had come “ from
Gilead, with their camels bearing
spicery, and balm, and myrrh, going
to carry it dotvn to Egypt ;” and
this was the same line of route taken
by the Egyptian armies on their march
into Asia.

The Mediterranean was not used
by the Pharaohs for maritime pur-
poses connected either with war or
commerce, until the enterprise or the
hostility of strangers began to suggest
its importance. But such was the
jealousy of the Egyptians, that foreign
merchants were forbidden to enter any
other than the Canopic, of all the
seven branches of the Nile; and
Naucratis was to them what the fac-
tories of a Chinese port have so long
been to European traders. It was
not until the reign of Apries that
ships of war were ﬁtted out upon the
Mediterranean, though so long used
on the Red Sea. Under that Pha-
raoh an expedition was sent against
Cyprus; and even the Tyrians were
defeated in a naval combat by an
Egyptian ﬂeet.

' But when the advantages of a more
extended commercial intercourse with
Europe, and the possibility of divert-
ing the course of the lucrative trade
with India and Arabia from Syria to
Egypt, were contemplated, the neces-
sity of a port on the Mediterranean
became evident; and the advanta es
oﬁ'ered by the position of Rhac tis
with its Isle of Pharos pointed it out
as a proper place for establishing the
projected emporium of the East.

Tradition had ﬁxed on this spot as
the abode of the fabulous Proteus,
called by Virgil and others a sea god

ROUTE 1. —— ALEXANDRIA — msronr.

 

. Sect. I.

and prophet, by Herodotus and Dio-
dorus a king of Egypt; whose pre-
tended appearance under various forms
is gravely attt ibuted by Lucian to his
postures in the dance, and by Dio-
dorus to his knowledge of astrology,
or to the supposed custom of the
king’s assuming various dresses to
impose on the credulity of the people.
Though, after all these statements,
there seems to be only one doubt,
which is the greatest fable, the fable
or the explanation.

After his conquest of Syria, Alex-
ander had advanced into Egypt, and,
by the taking of Memphis, had se-
cured to himself the possession of the
whole country. While at Memphis
be conceived the idea of visiting the
temple of Jupiter Ammon in the Afri-
can desert; and with this view he
descended the river to the sea. He
then followed the coast westward
from Canopus, until his attention
being struck with a spot opposite the
Isle of Pharos, he stopped to examine
its position, and the advantages it
offered as a naval station. It had
been occasionally used as a refuge for
ships at a very remote period, and
Homer had mentioned it as a water-
ing place at the time of the Trojan
war.

According to Strabo, the ancient
Egyptian kings, seeing that it was a
spot frequented by foreigners, and
particularly by Greeks, and being
averse to the admission of strangers,
stationed a garrison there, and as-
signed to them as a permanent abode
the village of Rhacbtis, which was
afterwards part of Alexandria.

“ The island of Phsros," says the
Geographer, “ is of oblong form,
standing near the shore, and forming
by its position an admirable port.
The coast here curves into a large
bay, with two promontories juttin
out into the sea, on its eastern and
western extremities; between which
is the island, furnishing a barrier in
the middle of the bay."

This island was afterwards con-

