 

Vysa,and is remarkable for the in-
' contrivanee h which it was
astened. It was It to slide into
a groove, like the sliding lids of our
boxes; and its upper rim (which pro-
jected on all sides, to a level with the
four outer faces of the sarcophagus)
'8 furnished with s small moveahle
pin, that fell into a corresponding
hole, and thus prevented the lid being
wn hack.

About 40 feet from the eastern side
of the third pyramid is the supposed
temple before alluded to, at the upper
endof the stone causeway; and around
the spot where this cluster of monu-
ments stands is an enclosure shout
1900 feet square, formed of rough
stones heaped on each other in the
form of a low rude wall. Similar
heaps of stones occur in parallel rows
to the northward of it, bounded by
others which run parallel to the
western face of the second pyramid.

Descending by the cause“ ay, about
350 feet from the part where it is
broken away. you come to a
piece of rock ; and a little to the left
is a tomb, with hieroglyphics, and
ﬁgures in relief hewn in the stone.
This has been taken possession
of by a Moslem saint, who of late
has become more than usually scru-
pulous in his religious prejudices.
For though living amidst the unclean
dust of the‘heathen dead, he has
thought it right to prevent the Iirin
Christian visiting his abode; an ,
making religion a plea for his petty
malice. he takes this his only oppor.
tunity of spiting those, whom curiosity
attracts to the neighbourhood. Fire
hundred feet thence, to the N. 1-3.,
are other smaller tombs, with the
name ofa very early king. and a few
sculptures, among which is a gazelle
wtth its young fawn—a graceful
ltttle group, rery creditable to the
taste of the draughtsman.

9. rue srmxx.

.Little more than the eighth of a
mile from these tombs, to the 8. 3.,

mm

 

19].

aresotnepits, andsstoneruinof
some siss on arock, by some supposed
to have been a pyramid. The angle
of its faces is about 75°. About 000
feet from this ruin,to the N.E.,ia
the W, standing 900 feet north
ofa linedrawn ﬂomthe 8. E. corner
(orfromtheplaneoftheS.facs)of
the second pyramid. It is cut in the
rock, part only of the back being
cased with stone, where the rock was
defective; and the assertion of Dr.
Clarke, “that the pedestal proves to
he a wretched substructure of brick-
work and small pieces of done. put
together like the most insigniﬁcant
piece of modern masonry," is as un-
founded as that “ the French uncovered
all the pedestal of this statue, and all
the recumbent or leonins parts of the
ﬁgure,” which, it is well known,
were ﬁrst cleared from the sand by
the labours of Mr. Salt and Signor
Caviglia. The whole is cut out of
the solid 'rock, with the exeeptiouof
the forelegs, which, with the small
portion above mentioned, are of hewn
stone; nor is there any pedestal, but
a pared dromos in front of it, on
which the pews repose. They extend
to the distance of 50 feet.

An altar, three tablets, a lion, and
some fragments were discovered there:
but no entrance could he found; and
I think it very probable that this
should he looked for on the N. side,
as in the pyramids. The altar stands
between the two paws; and it is ari-
dent, from its position, that sacriﬁces
were performed before the sphinx,
and that processions took place along
the sacred area, which extended be.
tween the forelegs to the breast, when
a sort of sanctuary stood, composed
of three tablets. One of these, of
granite, attached to the breast (thetop
of which may still be seen shore the
sand), formed the end of the sane-
tuary; and two others. one on the
right, the other on the left, of lime-
stone. the two sides. The last have
been both removed. At the entrance
of the sanctuary two low lambs pro-

