 

UEgypt.

Nile; and he makes the same dif- l

ference in longitude between it and
Acéris, as between Coptos and
Thebes.

A short distance beyond Kilm Ah-
mar is Metdltara; and in the hills
near it are some curious sepulchral
grottoes little known. They are said
to have the names of old kings. and
a singular instance of columns sur-
mounted by capitals in the form of
the full-blown lotus. And here it
may be well to observe that the usual
bell-formed capitals, frequently said
to represent the lotus, are taken from
the papyrus.

At Sharara, on the west bank, are
the mounds of an ancient town.
About one mile beyond Welad Nosyr,
on the east bank, are some grottoes,
without sculpture; and two miles
further, the celebrated grottoes of
Beni Hanna. They were formerly
supposed to be the Speos Artemidos,
“ the Grotto of Diana," the Bubastis
of the Egyptians. This. however, is
found to be in a small valley upwards
of two miles to the south, as l shall
presently have occasion to observe.

Beni Haasaa. — The grottoes (or,
as they are indiscriminately called,
tombs. catacombs, or caves) of Beni
Hosanna are excavated in the rock, at
the side of the hills that overhang the
valley of the Nile. The bank below, a
detritus of sand and gravel, has been cut
through by the river. which formerly
encroached on this side, but which has
again retired to the westward, to the
great inconvenience of ttavellers,
Who. when the water is low, are
obliged to walk more than two miles
from the nearest point their cangia
can approach, unless they have the
good fortune to ﬁnd a small rowing
boat to take them through the shallow
channels to the spot. Even when
the channels are all dry, in May and
June, the shortest walk is about 1}
mile, from opposite Karm Aboo
Omar; it is therefore advisable, in
hot weather, to set at!” very early, and
to return in the evening, taking water

 

non-rs 22. — stat-lam -— 3m meant. 298

and provisions. The Speos Artemi-
dos may he seen the same day. either
before or after the grottoes of Beni
Hanan, by those who are satisﬁed
with a hurried examination of their
interesting paintings: but the walk
is long, and in hot weather di

able; so that it is better to defer the
visii to the Speos till the next day.
The best and nearest point for land-
ing is to the westward of the village
of Beni Hassan, which lies half way
between it and the Nile. In coming
down the river, the Speos should be
seen ﬁrst.

The ancient approach to the grot-
toes of Beni Hassan was evidently
from the westward: roads of con-
siderable breadth lead to them, up
the slope of the hill from the bank,
and they are readily distinguished by
the stones ranged on either side, as in
the roads made by the ancients across
the desert, and before some of the
tombs of Thebes.

'ntese stones consist in a great
measure of the large rounded boul-
ders, which abound here; and which
are not met with, in such numbers at
least, in any other part of the valley.
They are calcareous, and full of
shells, containing much silex, very
heavy and hard, and externally of I
dark brown colour. 1 observed simi-
lar boulders in horiaontal beds, like
hints in chalk, on the mountain behind
Sherg Seleén. where the decay of the
stratum in which they lie has in some
places disengaged thetn. It is pro-
bable that the same has happened in
remote ages at Beni Hanan, and that
these stones were originally in similar
beds.

The grottoes are cut in one of the
strata, which was found to be best
suited for similar excavations; and
from the subjects and hieroglyphics
on the walls, they were evidently in.
tended for srpulchral purposes. The
variety of the scenes represented in
them are particularly interesting;
and if the style and proportions of
thelgnres are notequal to those In

a 3

