 

 

Egypt.

cho'ldes. On this lake are represented
at night the sufferings of him, con-
cerning whom, though much is known
to me, I shall preserve strict silence,
esceptas far as it may be right for
me to speak. The Egyptians call
them mysteries. i shall observe the
same caution with regard to the in-
stitutions of Ceres. called Thesmo-
phoria, which were brought from
Egypt by the daughters of Danaiis,
and aftetwards taught by them to
the Pelasgic women." Sais was the
place where the “féte of burning
lamps” was particularly “ celebrated
during a certain night, when every
one lighted lamps in the open air
around his house. They were small
cups full of salt (and water?) and
oil, with s ﬂoating wick which lasted
all night. Strangers went to Sais
from different parts of Egypt to assist
at this ceremony; but those who
could not be present lighted lamps
at their own homes. so that the fes-
tival was kept, not only at Sais, but
throughout the country."

i have already mentioned the spot
which appears to have been occupied
by the temple of Minerva; and it is
probable that in excavating there, its
exact position and plan might be as.
certained. “ Atnasis added to it some
very beautiful propyfcta, exceeding all
others botlt in height and extent, as
well as in the dimensions of the stones
and other respects. lie also placed
there several large colmsi and andro-
sphinxes, and brought numerous
blocks of extraordinary size to re-
pair the temple. some from the quar-
ries near Memphis, and the largest
from Elepltantine. a distance of '20
days' sail front Sais.

“ lint," adds Herodotus, “ n hat I
admire most is an ediﬁce of a single
block brought from the latter place:
20(1) men, all boatmen, were em-
ployed three years in its transport to
Sais. it is Ql cuhits long esternally.
l-l broad, 8 high; and its measute-

ments within are 16 cubits 20 digits '

long, 12 broad, and 5 high. it stands

norm: 6. —- we. — saPULcnaas.

 

111

at the entrance of the sacred enclo-
sure: and the reason given by the
Egyptians for its not having been ad-
mitted is. that Amasis, hearing the
architect utter a sigh, as if fatigued
with the length of time employed
and the labour he had undergone,
considered it so had an omen, that he
would not allow it to be taken any
farther; though others aﬁrm that it
was in consequence of a man having
been crushed, while moving it with
levers.” At Sais was also a colossus
dedicated by Arnasis, 75 feet long,
similar in size and proportion to one
he placed before the temple of Pthah
at Memphis, which was lying on its
back; and the grand palace of the
kings in the same city, which Apries
left to attack Atnasis, and to which
he afterwards returned a prisoner, is
another of the interesting monuments
mentioned at Sais.

The Egyptian name of this city
was Ssa, which is retained in the
modern Se; and the Sa'ls of ancient
writers was the same, with a Greek
termination. It is about a mile from
the Nile, on the right bank, and in
order to save time. if the Nile is
low, the traveller may land when in
a line with the mounds, and send his
boat to wait for him at the bend of
the river near l_(_odabeh, about I}
miles higher up. Dutin the inun-
dation the plain is partly coded and
intensected with canals, which are
not forded without inconvenience be—
fore November.

Seven nr eight miles inland to the
W. from Dahre'éh, between Nihleh
and Shaboor, is llamsées, on the Da-
tnanhoér canal, where report speaks
of a few stone remains. though I hear
they have been lately removed to
build a bridge, or for some other pur-
pose. 'l‘hey, as well as the name.

. mark the site of an ancient town,

which would be of very great interest,
were it on the E. instead of the W.
side of the Delta. This Ramsees, or
rather its predecessor, is unnoticed by
profane writers, and it is too far from

