 

284

dant are they here and in the canal
of Mensaleh, that I have seen men
stand in the water and catch them in
the mud with their hands. The fresh-
water ﬁsheriesare farmed in the same
manner as those of the Lake Men-
Illeh.

The shekh having sent over to
secure a boat for me at Toweel, I
found an awning put up, and every
thing ready for my journey to San,
which is about eleven miles to the
southward. The canal is the same
that passes by Bubastis, Zagaxeelg,
and Harbayt; but to the north of
Ban it runs through a low marshy
tract, abounding in reeds and stunted
tamarisk bushes. The hanks are very
low, and the whole is ﬂooded during
' the inundation. Here are the pas-
tures for cattle, which, like similar
low lands on the borders of the Lake
Bruins, hence received, in ancient
times, the name of Bucolia, and were
comprehended under the denomina-
tion of Elem-cilia, or the marsh district.
They were also called Bashmd'or, as at
the present day; and the same name
was applied to a dialect of the Coptic,
which differed both from the Thebaic
and Memphitic, and was spoken in
this art of the Delta.

A oolfeda comprises under the
name of Bashmoér the whole of the
island between the canal of Ashmoon
(or, as it is now called, of Mensaleh)
and the Damietta branch, and con-
siders Ashmoon the capital of this
district. The people who live in the
marshes diHEr much from the felltilu
of Egypt. Some are employed in
tending cattle, others in ﬁshing. The
principal abode of the ﬁshermen of
the canal of M033 is San, where a
techie! or agent for the owner of the
ﬁsheries lives, who receives the pro-
duce of their labour, and forwards it
to Zakaxeek and other places. They
call themselves Arabs, and, from the
name of their tribe, Malakéiin.

0n the way from Toweei to San,
we passed, at some distance inland to
the east, the high mounds of Dibgo,

 

n. l2.—camo 'ro mum: m rams. Sect. II.

which marl: the site of an ancient
town; but they are said to contain no
mine, nor could I hear of any, ex-
cept at Senhoor, where report speaks
of a few white stones.

The plain of San is very extensive,
but thinly inhabited; no village exists
in the immediate vicinity of the
ancient Tania; and, when lookin
from the mounds of this once splen '
city towards the distant palms of in-
distinct villages, we cannot fail to be
struck by the desolation spread around

It.

The “ﬁeld " of Zoan is now a
barren waste: a canal passes through
it without being able to fertilise the
soil; “ lire ” has been set “in Zoan,”
and one of the principal capitals or
royal abodes of the Pharaohs is now
the habitation of ﬁshermen, the resort
of wild beasts, and infested with rep-
tiles and malignant fevers. But no
one can look upon the site of Tania
without a feeling of intense interest.
It was one of the old cities of Egypt,
founded seven years after Hebron
(where Sarah was buried), and already
existing in the time of Abraham ; and
“ the ﬁeld of Zoan ” is stated by the
Psalmist to be the spot where Moses
performed those miracles that ended
in the liberation of the Israelites from
the oppression of the Egyptians.
(See Ezek. xix. 11., and xxx. 14. ;
Isaiah xxx. 4.; Pa. lxxviii. 12. Numb.
xiii. 29.; Gen. xxiii. 2.)

Taxis —— Sets or Zan, the Tom’s of
the Greeks, the Zoan of Scripture,
and the Gani or Athennes of the
Copts, is remarkable for the height
and extent of its mounds which are
upwards of a mile from N. to 8., and
nearly three quarters of a mile from
E. to W. The area, in which the
sacred enclosure of the temple stood,
is about 1500 feet by 1250, sur-
rounded hy mounds of fallen houses,
as at Buhastis, whose increased eleva-
tion above the site of the temple was
doubtless attributable to the same
cause,—the frequent change in the
level of the houses to protect them

