 

244

Gebel e’ Tayr, those of Bibbeh, Booth,
Neg‘deh, Aboo Honnea, near Anti-
no'e, three in the capital, and two at
Old Cairo, Amba Samoeel and Dayr
el Hammam in the Fyodm, those of
Alexandria, Girgeh, Abydus, Eith-
mim, Mellawee, Soolt, Feesheh near
Menoof, “the red and white monas-
teries," that of Amba Shnéodeh, near
Sooh‘g, as well as others in different
parts of Egypt, no longer have the
character of monasteries, the priests
being seculars, and the inmates of
both sexes. They hear, however, the
name of monasteries, and are looked
upon with peculiar respect ; the
churches are visited as possessing
peculiar sanctity, and one called Sitte
Gamiﬁn, near Damietta, has the
honour of an annual pilgrimage,
which is attended by the devout from
all parts of the country.

Tradition states their former num-
ber in Egypt and its deserts to have
been 866, a favourite amount in tra-
ditions of the country, which has been
given to the villages of the Fyoém,
as well as to the windows of the tem-
ple of Dendera.

The district of Nitria, or Nitriotis,
is sometimes known as the Desert of
St. Macarius, whose monastery still
remains thele, a short distance to the
8. of the Natron laltes, from which it
it is separated by a few low hills.
Here too are the ruins of three other
similar buildings, once the abode of
monks; and about half a mile to the
E. are mounds of pottery, that indi-
cate the site of an ancient town.
The remains of Pagan date are rare
in this valley: even the small stone
ruin, miles to the S. W. of Dayr
Suriam, is of Christian time; and
it is dimcultto ﬁx the position of the
two towns of Nitrictis, the only an-
cient remains being the glass-house
of Zageek, and the heaps of pottery
just mentioned. The former, per-
haps, marks the site of Nitria, and
the latter Sciathis, whence this district
received the appellation of Sciathia,
or Sciathica regio, in Coptic Shiét.

 

some 14. —-- omo T0 was meson mans. Sect. II;

Strabo says it contained nun pits
(lakes) of nitre (natron), the inhabit-
ants worshipped Sarapls, and it was
the only district of Egypt where
sheep were sacriﬁced ; though Hero-
dotus tells us the Mendesisns had
also the custom of immolating them
to the deity of their city.

The Coptic name of the town of
Nitria was Phanihosem, and the dis-
trict was called Pmsmpihosem.

Other mined convents may be
seen about two miles to the S. of the
Dayr Suriani; and the vestiges of a
few others may be traced here and
there in the Natron valley; but it
would be diﬁicult now to discover the
sites of the 50 mentioned by Gibbon,
or even half that number. The mo-
dern monks are little interested about
the ruined abodes of their prede-
cessors: they are ignorant even of
the history of their church; and it
would be difficult to ﬁnd any one to
point out the convent where the am-
bitious Cyril passed some years, under
the restraint of a monastic life.

The productions of the Wadee
Natron ate few; and from its dreary
appearance, it might be supposed to
boast of nothing but the salt and
natron, for which it is indebted to
its barrenness and its name. Two
other articles, however, of some
importance are gt own there, and
exported thence to the Nile, — the
rushes (soomdr), and bulrushes (bier-
dse), used for making the well-known
mats of Egypt, that tend so much
to the comfort of the Cairenes. 0f
the former the best ltind are made,
called Meadofee, from the town where
they are manufactured ; of the latter
an inferior quality, most commonly
used at Cairo, the Menéofee being
principally conﬁned to the houses of
the rich. But it is not to the Natron
valley that the Mendofee mats are
indebted for the best rushes; those of
El Maghra or Wide e’ Soomar (“ the
valley of tushes”) are greatly superior,
and are brought across the desert ex-
pressly for this manufacture. Wédee

