 

132

base of the principal minaret is one
round horse-shoe arch, which is rarely
met with in Egypt. Around the
mosh is an outer wall, now encum-
bered in part by houses, at each angle
of which rose one of the minarets;
that on the N. W. corner being the one
used for the call to prayer. This mask
is the oldest in Cairo, having been
founded 90 years before any other part
of the city, in the year 879 a. n., or 265
of the Hegira, as is attested by two
Cuﬁc inscriptions on the walls of the
court. a date which accords with the
era of that prince, who ruled in Egypt
from 868 to 884. If not remarkable
for beauty, it is a monument of the
highest interest in the history of archi-
tecture, as it proves the existence of
the pointed arch about three hundred
years before its introduction into Eng-
land, where that style of building was
not in common use until the begin-
ning of the 13th century, and was
scarcely known before the year 1170.

There is reason to believe that the
pointed arch was used in some parts
of Eumpe as early as the beginning
of the twelfth century; but it was
then evidently a novel introduction,
generally mixed with the older round-
headed arch, and not exclusively
adapted throughout any building.
And since we here ﬁnd a moslt pre-
senting the pointed style in all its
numerous arches, we may conclude
not only that the Saracens employed
it long before its introduction into
Eumpc, but that we were indebted to
them for the invention. The mosh
of Tayloon being the oldest build-
ing in Cairo, it is impossible to ascer-
tain from any monuments there at
what time they adopted this style of
architecture, but we may reasonably
suppose that it was not the ﬁrst moslt
ever erected with pointed arches. and
that in the East this kind of arch dated
considerably before the year 87 9. That
it should have been introduced from
thence into Europe is not at all impro-
bable; and the time of its ﬁrst appear-
ance naturally leads to the conclusion,

CAIRO. -- BIOSKS.

 

Sect. II.

that the Crusaders made us acquainted
with the style of building they had
seen during their wars against the
Saracens.

Along the cornice, above the arches
within the colonnades, are Cuﬁc in-
scriptions on wood, many of which
have long since fallen. The style of
the letters is of the same ancient cha-
racter, as in the stone tablets before
mentioned; and indeed, were the date
not present to determine the period of
its erection, the style of the Culic
alone would suﬁice to fix it within
a very few years, that character
having undergone very marked
changes in different eriods of its
use; and what is singu ar, the oldest,
which is the most simple and least
ornamented, has perhaps a nearer re-
semblance to the Arabic, than that in
vogue about the time when the mo-
dern form of letters was introduced.
The Arabic character was ﬁrst adopted
about 950 a. n , but Colic continued
in use till the end of the Fowatem
or Fatemite dynasty; and on build-
ings, Arabic and Colic were both
employed, even to the reign of Sultan
el Ghoree, A31). 1508.

The wooden pulpit, and the dome
over the front in the centre of the
quadrangle, ate of the Melek Mun-
soor Hesam e' deen Lageen, and bear
the date 696 of the Heg’ira,in Arabic
characters.

Another moslt (which I shall men-
tion presently), at Cairo, founded in
1003 by the Sultan El Haltem, hav-
ing also pointed arches, sufficiently
shows this to be the usual style of
architecture in the East at a period
when it was still unknown in Europe;
and there is every reason to believe
that if other Saracenic buildings could
be discovered of the same era, and
probably long before the time of
Ahmed ebn e' Tooloon, they would
present the same pointed style. It is,
however, sufﬁcient to have found two,
of the years a. n. 879 and 1003, to
settle the question respecting the pre-
vious use of the pointed arch in the

