 

Bgypt. nonamn an. 15

Wmhmdmdunghtmedudmd oﬂcers. Atthesametime
the Biaehswerefcrwardad from Ethiopia tothisdepogand drilledfcrsoldiers;
awdlchammed Bey(if Irememhercorrectly)told me thattheprojectwas
to have m cfthem as infantry, with Turkish artillery and cavalry; some
isvegnhr Arabhorsemen;andafewAlhanisnsandTurhsssaccrpade
rmerve, to supply the divisions in Arabia and Bonner.

But notwithstanding every care, the Blacks died off so rapidly that it was
found necenary to supply their places by native Egyptians; and this was
thacrigin cf the present disciplined army. This was unfortunate both for
the vicervy and the people; as it drained the population of a thinly-peopled
country, and diminished the number of hands required for the cultivation of
thescil; which weredoomed to he still farther reduceda few yearsafterby
th enblishmcnt of numerous manufactories.

' The introduction of the cotton plant gave the ﬁrst impulse to Mohammed
Ali's mhcma of making Egypt a manufacturing country; the impractica-
bility of which the experience of many years, the immense expense he has
incurred, the drain onthe populatio'n, thedestruction of machinery by the sand,
and universal opinion. have sufﬁciently demonstrated. The culture of the cotton,
which isof very good quality, is certsinl beneﬁcial to the revenues of Egypt;
as are the indigo, and many other Itind’s of produce introduced or increased
by Mohammed Ali; and had he been satisﬁed with the manufacture of
common stxtl's, - in former times. for ordinary purposes, which did not

' expensive machinery, he would have found it more proﬁtable in the

The export of the raw produce was obviously more beneﬁcial to the

country, and the Pasha, contented with that, would have been a gainer in
money and disposable hands.

Indigo. cotton, and sugar-cane have been for many years cultivated in the
valley of the Nile. The ﬁrst of these is of very excellent quslity in Upper
Ethiopia, where the latter plant also grows; and a coarse sugar from the
cane was made lonf ago in Upper Egypt. But the indigo, as it now is, was
brought from Nahoos in Syria, in 1824, and the Indian cotton was intro-
duced by Hahn Bey, assist by M. Jumel, about 1819. and ﬁrst grown at
Heliopolis. l’rom him it received the name of Maho cotton. and it isa
curious fact, that it has been found growing at Faxoglo, above Sennar. A
agar reﬁning manufactory was established at Reramoon, in Upper Egypt,
by Mr. Brine, an Englishman, in 1818; and the coarse sugar ofthe peasants
mug sent there to be reﬁned, was found to be very good both in sweetness

appearance.

lhrahim Pasha, who had returned victorious from Arabia, was sent to
prosecute the war, and extend the Turkish conquests in Ethiopia; and Kor-
dofan, 8ennar.and the other provinces were annexed to Egypt. He then
returned to Egypt, and other events soon called him to a new ﬁeld;
fortbe moment had arrived when Mohammed Ali felt himself sumciently
strong to attempt the subjugation of the revolted Greeks; and he sent to re-
quest permission of the Sultan to undertake the war of the Moses, which he
promised to terminate at his own cost, sud solely with his own troops; pro-
vided he might withhold the tribute from Egypt during that time, for the
expenses of the war. This apparently disinterested oﬂ‘er was welcomed by
the Ports; and the Sultan rejoiced in a proposition which promised to destroy
an enemy, while it tended to weaken the resources of a too-powerful vessel 3
and the assent of "is Highness was returned in the form of a command to
Mohammed Ali to put an end to the Greek insurrection.

It is generally supposed that the order emanated solely from the Porte;

