 

- —-—-—_ ..

hype new no mo vocsnuuar. 45

abolhoogllitbettertodonbkaoueofthecnneonanginordertopoine
snore clurlythatgreuetre-istobepntonthoeelettesaratbc
followthaatbographydtbeAr-abiqwhereoneonlywasnaed. He.
themddwaﬁabouldproperlybewrittenwitbanlgbntllnve
merely it.asprononnced,witheo. Portbevabalbarepreferred
the singularof the imperative, which in Arabic gimp-II
fanbeuuthaneitherthepreaentorperfectmandis fora
beginnertotbe-ieda-orininitive. Thoaeinltalicsare eitherdtired

" orbearanalogyto,anEuropeanorother

Itnay observe,thatlharesometimesintmdncedwordsnsedonlyby
theAnbs(ofthedesen),andaomeoftbecommonexpreasionsofdiepeople,
loaderthattbaa(whenoffrequentoccurrence)tnigbtnotbeunknowntoa
ingeneraltbeﬂrstandsecondwordsarethemoetused.
'l'hafourkindeofArabiearethemvulgar orjargon; drip, common
planes; Wliteral; andaﬂmgrasntnatical.

E

PIOIUICIATIOI‘.

Thea,asin father; oy, asin may; gorisery broad, and frequently nasal.

E,asin end; esasinseek ; ei'l, nearlyasﬂintheltalianwi.

Aiandeﬂasln German,orasyin my; butes',rather broader. Asingle
e, attbe end of words,“ in Doge. stroke, die. .

I.as in is. J, asin English, but for it 1 have almost always used .
Indeed in Lower Egypt the g (gim), which should be soft, like our Lie
snade hard, and pronounced as if followed by a short i, like the Italian word
Chine-'0.- but whatever letter it precedes or follows, it should properly be
pronounced soft. For the ghain, however, I am obliged to use 95, a hard
“ﬂoral sound. 0' as j.

H, asourh; an 5 withadot,averybardaspirate.

K. as in kill.

For the kaf, or gaf. I have used Q with a dot, or line. below it. Its sound
is very nesrl that of a hard g. almost guttural. and much harder than our c,
in cough. indeed it is frequently pronounced so like a g that I have some.
times used that letter for it.

D, as the German ch and Greek 1, but much more guttural.

0, as in on. unless followed by w.

0.as in go; land 6, ratherbroader; on. as in moon; one, as in cow.

R is always to be distinctly pronounced, as well as the It in a5; this I; is
frequently as hard as ch in loch.

S, and sit. as in English ; but 3. a hard and rather guttural sound.

2", as in English; and with a line, t, very hard, almost as if preceded
by ts. Dd is like our th in that.

U, as in bud ; qe, as in English. when featured by another ecoel: as
gaiyis, or gee-"is, “ pretty.”

7’, as in yes at the commencement, and as in any in the middle of syllables.
Before words beginning with t, th. g, d, dtb, r. s, a, sh. and n. the l of the
article ml is ellipsed. and the e alone pronounced; thus, el sir-‘1 reads
6 slurs-til, the left. or with the consonant doubled, ssh-shall; e' res. or
er-rés. the head. The doubled consonant indeed is nearer the pronunciation.

Words within a parenthesis are either uncommonly used. as Mobs, “are
for "bread," or are intended, when similar to the one before,toshow the

