 

104

ment in its castle for the more serious
punishment of death.

A few miles to the eastward of
Abooltir is an openin , called Medea
(Madéeh), the “for ," or “ferry,"
by which the lake Etko communi-
cates with the sea, and which is sup.
posed to be the old CanOpic branch.
Near this Pococlte places Heracleum,
Whence the name Heracleotic, applied
to this mouth of the river, which was
also called Naucratic, or Ceramic.

The Canopic was the most wes-
terly, as the Pelusiac was the most
easterly, of the mouths of the Nile.
Some ruins still marl: the site of the
city of Hercules, to whose temple the
slaves of Paris ﬂed, when he was
forced by contrary winds to take re-
fuge in the Canopic branch of the
Nile. The temple still existed in the
time of Herodotus and Strabo.

The whole road from Alexandria
to Rosetta is as tedious, dreary, and
bleak in winter, as it is hot in sum-
mer, with scarcely any resting-place
except the Cafe near Abooltir, and
the village of Etlro, the Coptic Tlti‘rou,
a short distance to the south of the
road. After traversing a level plain,
you reach Rosetta, whose gardens
and palms, rising above the surround-
ing sand-drifts, are an agreeable
change after this gloomy tract. There
is a constant communication by sea
between Alexandria and Rosetta; but
the passage over the bar of the river is
always disagreeable and often dan-
gerous, so that the journey by sea can-
not be recommended.

ROSETTA. — Rosetta, properly
Rasheed, in Coptic Trashit, has always
been considered the most agreeable
and the prettiest town of Egypt, cele-
brated for its gardens, and looked
upon by the Cairenes, as well as
Alexandrians, as a most delightful
retreat during the summer. It has
still its gardens, which surround it on
three sides, and the advantages of
situation; but it has lost much of its
importance as a town, and has ceased

ROUTE 2. — ALEXANDRIA *ro Rosana.

 

Sect. I.

population, too, is so much diminished
that a great proportion of its houses
are completely deserted, and falling,
if not already fallen, to ruins. About
twenty years ago it had 36,000 houses,
and its former ﬂourishing condition
is shown by their style of building,
which is very superior to that of other
Egyptian towns. The columns at
the doors, the neatness of the wooden
windows, and the general appearance
of their walls, strike a stranger, after
being in Upper Egypt; and it is with
regret that he sees whole quarters of
the town deserted, and houses falling
to decay.

It has several masks, Irlraas, and
bazaars, and is surrounded by a wall
with loopholes, which might serve to
protect it against a band of Arabs,
but would offer little resistance to
artillery. The northern gate has two
small towers at its side, of a form by
no means common in Egypt; and
between this and the plain are the
most extensive gardens.

Rosetta boasts no antiquities, but
on the hloclrs used as thresholds of
doors, in the masks and private
houses, a few hieroglyphics may be
seen, among which I observed the
name of Psamaticus I. The stones
are mostly of the hard siliuious quality
found near the red mountain behind
Cairo: fragments of granite and ba-
salt are also common, on the latter of
which I in vain looked for the re-
mainder of the Rosetta stone, dis-
covered hy the French while digging
the foundations of Fort St. Julien,
a few miles lower down the river.
The columns, as usual, are mostly
granite and marble, which. like the
others, have been brought from old
towns in the vicinity. On the west
side are large drifts of sand, vying in
height with the palm trees they
threaten to overwhelm; and at the
SJV. corner, close to the river, the
wall is terminated by a small fort,
mounting half a dozen small iron
guns, with two or three Turkish sol-

to be the resort of strangers. The L diers smoking in the embrasures.

