 

242

obtained four times that number of
M88., all indeed that were not used
by the monks.

Each monastery does or ought to
possess a “db tillers», or vocabu-
lary, in which each Coptic word is
placed opposite its equivalent in
Arabic ; not arranged alphabetically,
but under various heads, as parts of
the human body, vegetables, utensils,
&c., as well as the names of towns in
Egypt. These last have been of great
use in ﬁxing the positions of many
ancient places. It is however to be
regretted that some of the names are
far from certain, owing to the ignor-
ant presumption of the copyists, who
have often introduced the name they
supposed the town to have had, with
or in lieu of that in the MS. they
were etnployed to copy; instances of
which I observed in the vocabulary
atDayr Macarius, where Babylon is
said to bethe same as On (the ancient
Heliopolis), and the Matarééh of the
Arabs.

The Natron convents or monasteries
are all surrounded by a lofty wall,
with an entrance on one side, so low
that you are obliged to stoop down on
entering; and on the outside are two
large millstones, generally of gra-
nite, which in case of danger are
rolled together into the passage after
the door has been closed, in order
that the Arabs shall neither burn it
nor break it open; the stones being
too heavy and ﬁtting too closely to be
moved from without, and tntervening
between the enemy and the door.
Those who have rolled them into the
passage are afterwards drawn up by a
rope through a trap-door above; and
the want of provisions soon obliges
the Arabs to raise the unproﬁtable
siege, which not having been pro-
voked by any outrage committed by
the monks, seldom leaves in the recol-
lection of the aggressors any rancorous
feelings; and it rarely happens that
they illtreat those whom they happen
to meet on their way to- the Nile.

Notwithstanding the lowuess of

 

non-rs li—CAIRO T0 was mason LAKES. Sect. II.

these doorways, the cattle that turn
the water-wheels for irrigating the
gardens, and the mills for grinding
the corn, are made to pass through on
their knees; and even the oxen we
had with us were subjected to this
operation, horns, legs, and tail bein
in turns pulled, to force them throng
the unaccommodating aperture; fear
of the Arabs, who had a few days be-
fore carried off some cattle belonging
to Zakeeg, having rendered this pro-
caution necessary.

As soon as the bell has announced
the arrival of a stranger, proper in-
quiries and observations are made, to
ascertain that there is no danger in
opening the door for his reception;
and no Arabs are admitted, unless,
by forming his escort. they have some
one responsible for their conduct.
On entering, you turn to the right
and left, through a labyrinth of pas-
sages and small courts, and at last
arrive at the abode of the superior and
the principal monks. This part con-
sists of numerous small rooms, each
with adoor serving as an entrance for
the inmate and his share of light, which
is fastened up during his absence at
prayers or other avocations with a
wooden loclt, whose key might serve as
an ordinary bludgeon. In some parts
of the world the bearer of such an in-
strnment about his person might run
a risk of anest, for carrying a den-
gerous weapon; and it is by no
means certain that an Oriental ink-
stand would not render him liable to
a similar accusation.

A garden with a few palms, some
olive, nab! (Rhemnus Nabeca), and
other fruit trees, occupies the centre
of the principal court; and here is
frequently one of the churches;—
for these monasteries contain more
than one, and the tower or keep of
St. Macarius has no less than three
within it, one over the other; as if
additional services were required when
the den er was great, the tower be-
ing the last place of refuge, when the
entrance has been forced, or the walls

