 

8 mans. — HONEY. Sect. I.

have any reason to expect. And althou h on those occasions, when their po-
liteness arises from the hope of reward, ey may be disappointed in their es-
pectations, yet they would onl consider greater presents proofs of greater
ignorance in the person who m e them. But in all cases the nature of a pre-
sent must depend on the service performed, and also upon the rank of both
parties.

)2 Kansans.

Firmans are no longer given by the Pasha, but a booyéordee or task-eh may
be obtained from the Birds e1 Mam at the citadel, on application to the
consulate, which it is as well to hare, and which is absolutely necessary if the
traveller intends going any distance from the Nile into the interior. Indeed,
I have known the governor of a town refuse protection to a traveller when
applied to for it, on the excuse of his having no ﬁrman or booy6ordra; and the
want of one might, in some cases, be a very serious inconvenience.

9. atom nt sum.

The most common forei n coins current in Egypt are the dollar, the sove-
reign, Venetian sequin, an 5 franc piece. The dollaris rated at 90 piastres,
though the Spanish colonnato, or pillar dollar, has latterly passed for 22, and
the Austrian tholsr at 21 ; and it may be observed as a general rule, that in
mentioning a dollar 20 piastres are implied, unless the name of Spanish or
Austrian dollar be speciﬁed. The value of the dollar, like other foreign coins,
is frequently changing in Egypt, in consequence of the constant deterioration
of the piastre. In l833 it was at 15, and the sovereign at 70 piastres. For-
merly it was at 90 pom, and to this day the sum of 90 paras is called real or
dollar. In Pococlte's time, the para or méydes was 3 farthings English, and
the IL was 8 piastrcs. The small Constantinople coins were not then current
in Egypt.

The principal gold coins of the country are With, beehlih, and pieces of
20 and 10 piastres. Those of silver are 3 and l piastre pieces, half and quarter
piastres; and the only copper coins are pieces of 5 paras. Large sums are
reckoned by purses, as throughout the Turkish empire. The purse is always
500 piastres, now equal to 5L ; there is also the Wendi, wich is 1000 purses.

The money of Egypt has lately undergone a change, and Mohammed Ali
has called in all the worthless coin of Constantinople, and issued a new cur-
rency, which is very good. The only bad part of it was, that instead of calling
in the old coins, and giving the maple the price at which they received them,
the Pasha merely altered their value, and treated them as we have the Maltese
in the case of the dollar.

In January, 1842. the Spanish dollar, hitherto passing for 92, was rated
at 90 piastres 98 paras, the Austrian dollar of 21 at 20; and after various
changes, a tariff was published, stating the diﬂ'erent proportionate reductions
of the other coins.

The following is the value of the different pieces of money circulating
in Egypt, according to the new tariﬂ' of 1842 : —-

Gold.

Plast. Par. Ptast. Par.

Doubloons, doppz's di _ 818 30 Portuguese pezzr' d'oro - 174 4

Spagaa Venetian sequins - - - 46 I?

English sovereigns (re- _ 97 90 Hungarian ducats, or} _ 45 ‘26
duced from 100) Hugger

