 

 

Ema

East; and the idea ofits origin from
the inursection of two round arches,
or groined vaults, may at once be
abandoned, and, above all, its inven-
tion in England, which was years he-
hind the Continent in the date of its

on.

The minaret of the Tayloon, which
rises from the exterior wall of circuit,
has a singular appearance, owing to
the staircase winding round the out-
side. Its novel form is said to have
originated in the absent habits of its
founder, end an observation of his
Wilder. He had obsetved him uncon-
sciously rolling up a piece of parch-
ment into a spiral form; end having
rematked. " it was a pity his ma'esty
hadnobetteremployment,” the ing,
in order to excuse himself, replied,
“ So far from triﬂing, i have been
thinking that a minaret erected on
this principle would have many ad-
vantages; ] could even ride up it on
horseback: and I wish that of my
new mosk to be built of the same
form.” .

From its summit is one of the
ﬁnest views of the town; and though
inferior in extent, it possesses an ad-
vantage over that from the platform
ofJosepb's Hall, in having the citadel
as one of its principal features. The
hill on which the mosh stands was
formerly called el Euttaees, and was
chosen by Ahmed ebn e' Tooloon as a
place of residence for himself and his
troops: but it was not till long after
the foundation of Cairo that this hill
was enclosed within the walls, and
became part of the capital of Egypt.
its modern name is salgt-el-Kebsh,
“the citadel of the ram,” and tradi-
tion pretends that it records the spot
where the ram was sacriﬁced by
Abraham. Nor is this the only fanci.
ful tradition connected with the hill.
or the site of the mosh of Tayloon.
Noah's ark is reported to have rested
at the very spot where a ["9105 tree
still grows, within a ruined enclosure
in the court of the mosh; and the
name of Gettel O'sdeer isbelieved to

roan.

 

133

have been given it, in consequence
of the doabgieiag he there oﬂ'ered to
the Deity for his rescue from the
perils of the ﬂood.

The Es’ber or “splendid "mosh,
was originally founded by Gober
(Jéher) el Ea'efd, thegenersl of Mo'e's.
about the year 970; but that which
is now seen is of a later date, having
been subsequently rebuilt, and con-
siderably enlarged. Each part been
an inscription relative to the era. and
authors, of its successive restorations,
to the year I769. It is of consi-
derable sise, and ornamented with
numerous columns, which give a light-
ness and grace to the interior. it is
the College of Cairo, and here the
Karin is particularly studied; but as
in the ancient temple of Jerusalem
and the modern Bayt-Allah at Mecca,
idlers of all descriptions resort thither
to buy and sell, read and sleep, and
enjoy the coolness of its shady and
extensive colonnades.

Close to the south-west angle is
another handsome mosh, and a little
farther to the nonth is the small but
celebrated ijassanin, dedicated to the
two sons of Ali, el [lessen and el
ﬂmyn, whose relics it contains. it
is said that the head of Hoasayn. and
the hand of liassan, are preserved
there. Like the Ether, it was built
or restored at diﬂ‘erent periods, the
last addition dating in ”69, and
bearing the name of Abd e' lialtman
liehia; but none of the earliest part is
now visible. The eroded or bitth-dey
of the Hassanin is oneof the principal
fétes of Cairo, when a grand illumi.
nation, with the usual amusements of
Eastern fairs, continues for eight. and
sometimes more, days, in this quarter
or the town. The tomb of the patron
saint on such occasions is always
covered with the Kism‘, or sacred
envelope of embroidered cloth or vel-
vet; which calls to mind the clothing
of the statues with the «per mm, in
the temples of ancient Egypt.

0! the early masks, that have res
tained their original style of architec.

