 

366

riod to repair the wall of the inner or
upper court, bear hieroglyphics of
various epochs, having been brought
from other structures; among which
the most remarkable are—one con-
taining the name of King Horus, the
predecessor of Remeses I., and men-
tioning “ the father of his father’s fa-
ther’s father, 'I‘hothmes 11]., who
was, in reality, his fourth ancestor;
and another of the fourth year of
Pthahmen, the son of Remeses II.

It had been long supposed that a
communication existed from this tern-
ple to the Valley of the Kings, for
which reason, indeed, I was induced
to open the inner part during my stay
in 1827. But the appearance of the
end room suﬂiciently decides the
question, and proves this conjecture
to have been ill-founded ; and it will
be seen from the survey that the near-
est, and consequently most Opportune
spot for such a communication is not
on the exact line of this building.

On the east side of the dramas, and
about 600 feet from the pedestals of
the obelisks, are the fragments of gra-
nite sphinses and calcareous columns
of an early epoch, at least co'éval with
the founder of these structures; and
a short distance beyond them is a path
leading over the hills to the tombs of
the kings.

Another road to these tombs lies by
the ravine of the valley, from the vi-
cinity of the temple of Old Eoorneh ;
and to the east of the entrance of this
valley are several limestone quarries,
with the rude huts of the miners;
who (to judge from the king‘s name
at the south end of them) continued
to work them after the accession of
the twenty—sixth dynasty.

ll. rouas or run: arena—nu, on
main ll. nosoort, “TH! one”
on “oarss or ran stuns.”

The traditional name “ Gates of
the Kings” is applied by some to the
tombs themselves, by others to the
narrow gorge at the inner entrance
oi the valley.

THEBE8.—TOXBB 01' THE KINGS-

 

SecLI'V.

For these, as for other tombs, ann-
dies are of course required; some
water and proviﬁons may also be
taken.

Idonotproposetogireadetailed
account of these interesting cata-
combs, nor pretend to ofer to the
reader an explanation of the sculp-
tures, whose interpretation our limited

uaintance with the Egyptian mys-
teries, (to which they frequently al-
lude,) necessarily renders uncertain
and conjectural; I shall therefore
merely notice their most remarkable
features, and refer to them according
to the numbers I painted on them,
which I believe still remain.

Belzoas" s Torah—The tomb No.17,
which was discovered by Belaoni, is by
far the most remarkable for its sculp-
ture and the state of its preservation.
But the plan is far from being well
regulated, and the deviation from one
line of direction greatly injures its
general effect; nor does the rapid
descent by a staircase of 24 feet in
perpendicular depth, on a horizontal
length of 29, convey so appropriate
an idea of the entrance to the abode
of death, as the gradual talus of other
of these sepulchres. To this stair-
case succeeds a passage of 18,} feet
by 9, including the jambs; and passing
another door, a second staircase de-
scentls in horizontal length 25 feet;
beyond which two doorways and a
passage of 29 feet bring you to an
oblong chamber 12 feet by H, where
a pit, ﬁlled up by Belzoni, once ap-
peared to form the utmost limit of
the tomb. Part of its inner wall was
composed of blocks of hewn stone,
closely cemented together, and co-
vered with a smooth coat of stucco,
like the other walls of this excavated
catacomh, on which was painted a
continuation of those subjects that
still adorn its remaining sides.

Independent of the main object of
this pit, so admirably calculated to
mislead, or at least to check the search
of the curious and the spoiler, another
advantage was thereby gained, in the

