 

 

 

Egypt. noun 6. —aunurmm TO amn AND CAIRO.

Striro'a account, to have been re-
quired in ancient times from persons
luring Alexandria; and the trouble-
aoeae a of purport: seems to
ha been adopted by the Egyptians
n a very early ' .

It waa at this spot that the English
catthepaaaage. toadmit theaeawater
into the Lake Man-ode; and from its
having been aloud again, they now
give it the name of Sid, signifying
" a data.“

If the wind is fair a good sailing
but should reach Atfeh in 8 hours
from Alexandria; if towed by horses,
in lo and a half. Within the last 4
years the Government has established
post-hone: on the canal whete relays
of bones arekept for the use ofboata;
but in otder to have the right of en-
gaging them, it is necessary to be
furnished with an order (tab-dz)
from the authorities at Alexandria.
A teparate retired it given for each
poet, so that if the wind is favourable
a portion of the way, and contrary or
deﬁcient in other parts of the canal,
horses may be taken only as far as
required. A dahabeeh is towed by
ghouea. each with its titlcl‘, amt 1
dollar is paid for a ltOf'Q.

The Canal qunItmoodn'eIt, ttllit'll
was begun by Mohatntncd Ali in
l8l9. and opened Jan. 2-1. H120, te-
ceired its name in honour of the late
sultan. it is said by Mengin to have
cost 188.400 pill'tllt", or 7.5(KMXX)
than, and 250,000 men were em-
ployed about one year in digging it,
under the dinction of llagee (ls-roan
agha, the l’aslta's chief 'l'tnlti-uh sur-
reyor. assisted by SS. liilotti, Costa.
Maui, and two other ltaiian engi-
ncm. it was done in too hurried a
manner, and the accumulation of
mud, deposited in it alter a very few
years, so clogged its channel, that on
boats of any size could natigate it
during the greater part of the year;
an inconvenience only remand for a

 

 

 

107
Nile. Another proof of bad manage-
ment in its execution war the gteat
lore of life among the workmen, no
less than 20,000 being said to have
perished by accidents, hunger, and
plague.

An old canal existed on thia line,
which brought water from the Nile.
and had been used in the time of
the Venetian: for cartying good: to
Alexandtia. It was called the canal
of Fooah, and existed, though neatly
dry. in Savary’a time. A. n. 1777.
The spot where it entered tlte walla
of Alexanthia may utill he been, at
the salient angle to the west of l'otn-
pcy’a Pillar; and it was probably the
same that of old went toward-t the
Kibﬁtom Thete “as also a canal on
part of this line which leﬂ the Nile
at ltahtnanéeh, supposed by home to
have been the old Canopic branch.

The appearance ol'the Mahntomlt'a'lt
is far hum interesting, and the mono-
tony of its lltltthh in not reln-tetl by
the telegraph. thing at interval-t
above the tlteaty plain. which extend-
on both aides of it to n Mttntngly
endless distance. 'l'ltey connunnieate
lit-tween Alexandtin and the capital;
following the canal as far tn Kat-
rawee, and then by llmnanhoot, 7.1m.
yet cl llahr, Nam-r, Menuol', and
other intermediate lllllt't". to tho
citatltl of Cairo. The tllllll thtown
ttp hunt the canal l'otm-t an eletatt-d
ridge, rising far above the adjacent
lands; and the only object! that in-
tctrtlpt the ttttihmtt letrt-l ate the
tnontnla of :tneiutt tontu. “how
Iolitnty and den-Hell n~pt ct tnlds
not I little to the git-undone of tho
acene.

()u the Malnttoudt‘elt ale «one
will“, and fume, of 'l'utlut and l-Tu.
rapt-ans. liting at Metamhia. The
tnmt retnatLahle among the t'otttnr in
that or Moltattun lit-y. already men-
tinned. lie was lurtnetly gnu-titer

. of Alt la‘llltllla.3lltl son nl'tltc “mentor

time I}! “an“.‘ing it “i". “an-f fluf“ I (If Cu“ 0"“. lltl' Il-lil‘t‘ ltl‘Tll of 31“.

a lateral canal front Tetineh, by mak-
ing lotlu at its junction with the

hammer! .lli.and one of the few front
that place who witnewetl the gradual
r 6

