 

 

U- Egypt.

the torrent of Wadee Gaméos; which
doubtless held the same course in
former times, whenever the rain
fell in the mountains. But this, be-
ing a rare occurrence in Egypt. sel-
dom oil'ered much inconvenience to
the inhabitants. The river now, du-
ring the inundation, occupies part of
its bed, owing to the increased height
of the level of the Nile: the modern
peasants of Shekh Abadeh cultivate
the lower part of it; and many
portions of the old city are now over-
grown with palm trees.

The greatest length of Antino'é,
north and south, was upwards of
6000 feet, and its breadth in the
widest part 3400, judging from the
present remains of its walls; and it
is said to have had a circuit of from
8 to 4 miles. The walls of the town
were double, and of great thickness,
with a shelving summit terminating
nearly in a point of one brick in
breadth, with a view to turn at? the
rain; and on the east side near the
entrance of the torrent are remains
of a stone wall.

A short distance to the north is a
projecting hill, on whose summit is a
singular ruin, apparently occupied in
later times by the Christians, whence
it received the name of Dayr e' Deck,
“the convent of the cock." If Bess
was really the predecessor of Antinoe.

this probably belonged to it. The'

mined building there was once orna-
mented with Corinthian columns of
'Roman time, and behind them is a
circular hole resembling a well, sunk
in the rock. The walls are of crude
brick; and in a grotto on the front
of this hill 3 cross is inscribed, com-
memorating its possession by the
Christians, who also occupied some
of the caves in the mountain to the
east. About 700 feet to the south-east
of it is an extensive space enclosed by
a crude-brick wall, with several en-
trances, and here and there the re-
mains of masonry. It is of irregular
form at the northwest extremity,
where are some mounds and tombs;

more 22. -—mmott — Bess.

 

801

but the north-west and south-east
walls, which run nearly parallel, ans
straight, and extend to a distance of
more than 1000 paces. The south-
west wall is destroyed. These tombs
appear to be of Christian time, judg-
ing from the inscriptions headed by a
cross, on the stones lying about them,
and were probably the burial-places
of the monks of Dsyr e' Deek. and
of the Christian inhabitants of Anti-
no'e' itself. It was, perhaps, originally
a fortiﬁed station attached to the city.

Aboolfeda describes Antin03 under
the name of Ansina, as having “ ex-
tensive remains of ancient monu-
ments, and much arable land : " and
he adds. “that the Nubian geogra-
pher, Edrisi, speaks of it as an an-
cient city, remarkable for the fertility
of its land, and said by common re-
port to be the city of the magicians,
who were sent for thence by Pharaoh.”

Near the Hippodrome are a well
and tank, belonging to the ancient
road, that led from the eastern gate of
Amino! to the north-east, and ascend-
ing the Wadee el Agatee continued
through the desert to the Wade.
Tarfa, joining at length those of the
porphyry quarries and others in that
direction.

Antino'é was the capital of a nome.
called after it the Antino‘ite, to which
Ptolemy says the two Cases were at-
tached. This was one of the new
provinces or departments of Egypt,
added at a late period, when Egypt
was under the rule of the Ro-
mans, and Heptanotnis was then con-
demned to signify, or at least to con-
tain, 8 names.

At Roda on the opposite bank are
the mounds of an old town, and be-
yond it to the south is Bysdé'éh, a
village inhabited by Copta. There
are many Christian peasants here-
abouts, on both sides of the river; and
in examining the ﬁelds, particularl
about Bysdé'e’h. one is forcibly struck
with the superiority of the Capt ore:
the Moslem felllh, all that relates to
irrigation being much better managed

