 

344

The battle scenes occur on these walls. and at ‘

r are traces of sculptures relating to the
war; but that artas well ass, is now in
ruins. At a, t e ﬁrst wall on the right
entering, the king is besieging acity sur.
round by a river, “new no em raw
nix-v (a) m ﬁnalists . . Megan-ms seizes
es'e wsvwasse misﬁts-es." On the second wall
were the cspt res led by the king “as as
assist. est: en zugu so: txm." as It
Medeénet Kaboo; and in the centre of the
area was an altar in the open air “us-a-
a‘m " showing this court was also hype.
rel in thecentre. “ limbs res Mes
euxsv meat» ﬁrms-a: sad-nurses 39s,"
I. and II,— t e h of the latter of which is
now in the British Museum; “wag' an
an)»: rem (ll, 0, r) us see mums». eed’
as user us-qxus 9'va (Q) as...» egress
nos-trams». seats-as I'm an exert-o:
swung..." a and a are pedesta s, perhaps
belonging to some of the statues he men-
tions. “ the 8' are; up “grates-es mean trav-
esIsa‘wv tram," per taps referring to the
whole space containing the chambers u, v,
r. I. the I' ups-cam no «gas 3:61»-
hsns" (U or V) “ Mix“: as m for
new uses“, no ﬂanker, spans
«m a armor as seals-us. ' which
is referred to in the sculptures of wand it.
Whether his description of the parts beyond
this is correct we cannot decide. as thecham-
hers are entirely destroyed, and the general
with is scarcely to be traced ; and, as it is pro-
ble Hecstteus, who is his authority was not
admitted beyond the great hall q, the infor.
mation obtalned of this (part must have
rested solely on report In eed in this por-
tion, he appears to have united or con-
founded two buildings, the tem is of
Remotes the Great. and that of emeses
ill. at Medeénet Haboo; though, with the
exception of the measurement of the areas
(four plethra square) his description of the
ﬁrst part at the Tom of Osymandyas agrees
very closely with the ediﬁce before us; but
we may be allowed to question its having
been a tomb, or having been erected by that
monarch.
1. Battle scene, where the testudo occurs.

Behind the columns of the northern
corridor, and on either side of the
central door of the great hall, is a
limestone pedestal, which, to judge
from the space left in the sculptures,
tnust have once supported the sitting
ﬁgure of a lion, or, perhaps, a statue
of the king. Three entrances open
into the grand hall, each with a sculp-
tured doorway of black granite; and
between the two ﬁrst columns of the
central avenue, two pedestals sup.
ported (one on either side) two other
statues of the king. Twelve massive
columns, 82 feet 6, without the abacus,
and 21 feet 3 in circumference, form a
double line along the centre of this

DESCRIPTION OF THEBEB.

SectIV.

hall, and 18 of smaller dimensions
(17 feet 8 in circumference), to the
right and left, complete the total
of the forty-eight, which supported its
solid roof studded with stars on an
azure ground. To the hall, which
measures 100 feet by 133, succeeded
three central and six lateral chambers,
indicating, by a small ﬂight of steps,
the gradual ascent of the rock, on
which this ediﬁce is constructed. Of
nine, two only of the central apart-
ments now remain, each supported
by four columns, and each measuring
about 30 feet by 55 ; but the vestiges
of their walls, and the appearance of
the rock, which has been levelled to
form an area around the exterior of
the building, point out their original
extent. The sculptures, much more
interesting than the architectural de-
tails, hnve suﬂ‘ered still more ftom
the hand of the destroyer; and of
the many curious battle-scenes which
adorned its walls, four only now re-
main; though the traces of another
may be perceived behind the granite
Colossus on the north face of the wall.

0n the north face of the eastern
pyramidal tower, or propylon, is
represented the capture of several
towns from an Asiatic enemy, whose
chiefs are led in bonds by the ric-
torious Egyptians towards the camp
of their army. Several of these
towns are introduced into the pic-
ture, each bearing its name in hiero-
glyphic characters, which state them
to have been taken in the fourth year
of King Remeses II. This im-
portant fact satisfactorily shows that
the early part of the reigns of their
most illustrious monarchs was em-
ployed in extending their conquests
abroad, which they returned to com-
memorate on the temples and palaces
their captives assisted in constructing.
And claiming the enjoyment of that
tranquillity their arms had secured,
they employed the remainder of their
reigns in embellishing their capital,
and in promoting the internal pros-
perity of the country.

