 

Sect IV.

i§

”dupe-Mattie The-chatted“
hankﬁastnd thankless-Ha Cathyefav'ﬂ;*lhm
hgetdhlmddwithcaleaaadmkaa Ilyﬁ'l'llhll.

thinggim-edathe‘aodiahiu-d’dhq

trrh, and follows the oﬁciauag_iamy5wvey,eaaptthalchahind
priestalongthenndyplaia. The thelillofﬁekhdldel_ouneh,
“sister”ofthedeceased,emhraci _wlucharem-culptued.

themummy,addressesherlo¢rela-! Fewtndeedfeelineiasdtodevota

tive; 53ers, cakes, inert; , and ; theirtimetoarenlrch ofth'nhnd.’
various eringsarepreaen before Someareiaahurryto damghthe
themh;theululatiouofthemennlahourof ' ' s:‘nthera
and women continues without, and: they-latheusomeptienlarplace
several females, carrying their ehil- i atacettain time; andaomepermade
dren in shawls suspended fromtheir' themselveathatoneovtwodayssuﬂa
shoulders, join in the lamentation.

Ontheeorreaponding wall, menand All, it must healloved,eannotha
women, withthehody exposed above I equally interested intheeaamination
the waist, throw dust ontheirheads, i of Egyptian antiquities; and tube-
orcover theirfaee with mud,—acus- come suﬁciently acquainted with the

5

tom recorded by Herodotus and Di-
odorus, and still retained in the
funeral ceremonies of the Egyptian
peasants to the present day. The
former states, that “ the females of
the family cover their heads and faces
with mud, and wander through the
city beating themselves, wearing a
girdle, and having their bosoms bare,
accompanied by all their intimate
friends; the men also make similar
lamentations in a separate company."

Besides other interesting groups on
this wall, are the ﬁgures of the mo-
ther, wife, and daughter of the de-
ceased, following a bar-is drawn by
exen, where the character of the three
ages is admirably portrayed.

- In the inner chamber are an Egyp-
tian house and garden, the cattle, and
a variety of other subjects, among
which may be traced the occupations
of the weaver, and of the gardener
drawing water with the pole and
bucket, the shadaof of the present day.

Statues in high relief are seated at
the upper end of this part of the
tomb, and on the square pillars in its
centre are the names of Amunoph I.
and his queen Ames-nofri-are.

 

5 style of their architecture and sculp-

ture, so asto be able to distinguish
those of diﬂ'erent epodu, and com-
prehend the subjects represented, re-
quires much more time and attention
than the generality of travellers can
be expected to afford; but the limited
space of one or two days is not ac-
tually suﬂicient to entitle any one
to the pretensions of having seen
Thebes.

Every one must feel some interest
in Egyptian works of art, if it be
merely ftom their early date, and the
grandeur of their style; for in spite
of all the defects of Egyptian archi-
tecture and sculpture, they have at
least the great merit of originality;
nor can any one, however prepos-
sessed against them, deny the im-
posing grandeur of the Theban tem-
ples, or the admirable style of draw-
ing in the unﬁnished chamber of
Belsoni's tomb, and other monu-
ments of the earlier eras, where the
freedom of the outlines evinces the
skill of no ordinary artist.

The character of the animals of
their country, whether quadrupeds,
birds, or ﬁsh, will be allowed by

