 

146

the name; and some derive it from
mislt, “ musk," but for what reason
does not appear. Others, again, sup-
pose it to have been the street of the
Maskee or Russians. The name is

written inArabic $1.”, and Ma-
crisi says the bri ge, or Kantarat el
Moskee, was built by the Ameér
Ghasaleh, who died in Syria 530
a. a. (a. n. 1136.)

It was here that the ﬁrst Franks
who opened shops in Cairo were per-
mitted to reside, in the reign of
Yoosef Salah e‘ deen (Saladin). But
the number of houses occupied by
them in later times having greatly in.
creased, the Frank quarter has ex-
tended far beyond its original limits,
and the Meshes now includes several
of the adjacent streets.

Though this name is used both by
Europeans and natives, that of Halt
el Frang, “ Frank quarter,” has of
late been generally substituted by the
latter, and each street within it is dis-
tinguished by its own name.

II!- THE WALLS AID EXTENT OI‘
CAll0.—CARAL.

The extent of Cairo was at ﬁrst
very limited. The walls were ori-
ginally of brick, as already stated,
until the time of Saladin. At that
period the city extended only to the
Bab Zooayleh on the south; but
when he added the portion beyond it,
the walls were also prolonged to the
citadel, and this continues to be the
circuit of Cairo to the present day.
The original part of the city, how-
ever, still retains the name of El
Medeeneh, “ the city ;" as is the case
in some towns of Europe. It was at
this time, too. that the '_isolated galat
el gebsh, or ISuttaeea, of Ahmed ebn
e’ Tooloon, became part of Cairo.
The town was also extended on the
northern side, and the present Bab
el Hadéet (“ gate of iron ") stands
some distance further out than the
original site of that entrance.

One portion, however, of the old

CAIRO. -- EXTENT -—CANAL

 

Sect.II.

city was left out in the last circuit,
and a space containing about 14,000
square feet, called Door 43' Ziﬂ'r, is
entirely uninhabited. t is about
400 paces to the S. E. of the Bab
e’ Nusr, and is pattly buried by the
mounds of rubbish from time to time
carried out of the town. But this
diminution is fully compensated by
the size of the suburbs of Hossaynéiih,
beyond the Bab el Fotooh and the
Bab e’ Sharéeh, which cover a space
of 270,000 square feet.

171: Boorg-e‘-Z§ﬂ'r, or “ tower of
ﬁlth,” is curious, from its showing the
masonry, loopholes, and general style
of the Saracenic walls, which are more
easily seen there than in any other part
of the town. At the northern angle is
a staircase of peculiar construction, and
on the inner face of its tower are some
Cutie inscriptions. Many of the stones
in the walls have remains of hierogly-
phics, and were probably brought ft om
the ruins of Heliopolis, or the site of
Memphis. On the mounds, that cover
part of the walls, and command the
town, are several small stone forts
erected by the French, and some wind-
mills built by Mohammed Ali. Im-
mediately behind the citadel are some
small Egyptian sepulchral grottoes
beam in the face of the rock, and the
cisterns already mentioned.

Canal. — Through the town passes
the canal, which conveys the water
from Old Cairo to the city, and thence
to the lands about Heliopolis. It is
the successor of the Amnis Trajanus.
The cutting of this canal in the month
of August is a grand ceremony, and
gives the signal for Opening the other
canals of Egypt. In 1839-3 a new
canal was Opened near Boolalt, for
the purpose of irrigating the lands
about HeliOpolis and the Birket el
Hag, which has partly superseded the
old one, whose ofﬁce is now conﬁned
to the conveyance of water to the city ;
and it is probable that were it not for
an old prestige in its favour, the
government would. close the latter
altogether, and make of its bed a con-

