 

90

the materials; but these obstacles
proved so insuperable, that he was
obliged .to leave the foundations, and
to content himself with reducing the
ediﬁce itself to a heap of rubbish ; a
part of which was soon afterwards
cleared away, to make room for a
church, erected in honour of the
Christian martyrs. . . . The colossal
statue of Sarspis was involved in the
ruin of his temple and religion. A
great number of plates of diﬂ‘erent
metals, artiﬁcially joined together,
composed the majestic ﬁgure of the
deity, who touched on either side the
walls of the sanctuary. The huge
idol was overthrown and broken to
pieces; and the parts of Sarapis were
ignominiously dragged through the
streets of Alexandria."

The Persian, described by Strabo
as an artiﬁcial height, in the shape of
a top, resembling a stone mound,
with a spiral ascent, and commanding
a view of the whole city, was sup-
posed by Pococlte to have been
marked by a hill within the walls
behind the Frank quarter, since oc-
cupied by Fort Caﬂ'arelli, which is
built on ancient substructions. Some
have conjectured it to have been the
height on which Pompey’s Pillar
stands, and others have placed it on
the redoubt-hill to the west of that
monument.

The Gymnasium stood near the
street which extended from the west-
ern or Necmpolis gate to that on the
Canopic or eastern side; which were
distant from each other 40 stadia. the
street being 100 feet broad. It had
porticoes covering the space of an
eighth of a mile, of which Pococlte
conjectures the granite columns near
the main street to be the remains.
The Form he places between this
and the sea; and he attempts to ﬁx
the site of the Necropolis gate on the
south of the present town. The two
principal streets were a few years ago
clearly traced, as well as the spot
where they intersected one another
(as Strabo states) at right angles. In-

noora l. -— ALEXANDRIA — MONUIIENTS.

 

Sect. I.

deed, besides their general direction,
columns and the remains of build-
ings, seen in several places, indicated
their site; but it is diﬂicult to as-
sign a place to any particular ediﬁce
in streets, which, as Diodorus oh-
serves, contained a succession of tem-
ples and splendid mansions.

One large building stood to the
north of the main street (which is still
partly marked by the modern road to
the Rosetta Gate), on the north-east
of S. Gibarra's Garden, where some
very large columns have lately been
found ; and the Forum or Emporium
was perhaps between this and the
sea.

The Rosetta Gate is the eastern
entrance of the large walled circuit,
which lies to the southand south-east
of the modern town. The space it
encloses is about 10,000 feet long, by
39.00 in the broadest, and 1600 in the
narrowest part. It is a large unin-
habited area, whose gloomy mounds
are only varied here and there. by the
gardens or villas of the Franks, and
other inhabitants of Alexandria. The
site of the old Canopic Gate is very
different from that of the modern en-
trance, which lies considerably far-
ther inward to the west. Indeed the
circuit has been so much diminished,
that the latter stands on what was
once part of the street leading to the
Canopic Gate, whose site was about
half a mile further to the eastward.
The wall of the ancient city, on that
side, lies under the lofty mounds
occupied by the French lines, before
the battle of Alexandria; and the
remains of masonry, its evident line
of direction, and the termination of
the mounds of the town in that part,
suﬁiciently show its position.

8. Mouustsurs oorsms rua CANOPIC
earn—On going out of the Canopic
gate,and passing by the Hippodrome,
you came to M'copolis, distant 30 sta-
dia, or, according to Josephus, 28 from
Alexandria. It was here that Augus-
tus defeated the partisans of Antony,
whence its name, “ the City of Vic-

