 

288

place. I have even met with it' in
the cultivand land to the east of Be-
noob el Ham‘m, and to the north-
east of goos; but from the present
increased extent of the inundation,
kw traces are left of its existence in
the low lands, which, though they
once marked the edge of the desert,
now form part of the cultivated plain
of Egypt. That this wall was raised
to check the incursions of those rob-
bers par excellence, the Arabs (for the
rts were formerly, as now, in-
habited by similar wandering tribes),
is highly probable; and the object of
it was evidently to prevent an ingress
from that quarter, since it extends
along the opening of the ravines, and
is not carried over those cliffs, whose
perpendicular faces being precipitous
and impassable, obviated the necessity
of its continuation. Diodorus says
that Sesmtris “ erected a wall along
the eastern side of Egypt, to guard
against the incursions of the Syrians
and Arabs, which extended from
Pelusium, by the desert, to Heliopo-
lis, being in length 1500 stadia "
(about 178; English miles); and it is
not improbable that the Gisr el Agoos
may be a continuation of the one he
mentions. But the observation of
Voltaire, “s‘il construisit ce mur
pour n'étre point volé, c‘est une
grande présomption qu’il n’alla pas
lui-méme voler les autres nations," is
by no meansjust, unless the fortiﬁed
stations built by the Romans in the
desert for the same purpose are proofs
of the weakness of that people. The
Arabs might plunder the peasant
without its being in the power of any
one to foresee or prevent their ap-
proach; and every one acquainted
with the habits of these wanderers is
aware of the inutility of pursuing
them in an arid desert with an armc
force. Besides, a precaution of this
kind obliged them to resort to the
towns to purchase corn; and thus
the construction of a wall had the
double advantage of preventing the
plunder of the peasant, and of reader-

norrra 21.— men at. aeoos.

 

SectIII.

ing the Arabs dependent upon Egypt
for the supplies necessity forced them
to purchase; nor did the government
incur the expense of paying thdr
chiefs, as at the present day, to deter
them from hostility.

At the Gisr el Agoos are the re-
mains of an ancient village ; and
above the town of Gebel a' Tayr are
some grottoes.

Two miles beyond this is the site of
an ancient town, now called Masher
Tehaelt oo Mshaclt. Its lofty and ex-
tensive mounds lie at the mouth of
Wadee Téhneh, three quarters of a
mile from the river, under an isolated
roclty eminence of the eastern chain
of hills, whose precipitous limestone
cliiih overhang the arable land that
separates them from the Nile.

Above a rough grotto in the lower
part of the rock, about a quarter of a
mile to the south of the ancient town,
is a Greek inscription of the time of
Ptolemy Epiphanes; which, from the
word Acdris in the third line, appears
to indicate the position of the city of
that name. This, however, is not
certain. Acbris, the individual who
put up the dedication, may have had
the same name without its proving
any thing respecting the site of the
city; though probability is in favour
of Téhneh marking the site of Achris.

The inscription is
TUEPBAIIAEQZHTOAEMAIOT
OEOTEIIHDANOTIMBI‘AAOTETXAPI-

ITOT
AlﬁflAPIIZI-JPI‘EQIIIIAIMOXIAAllan-

“ For the welhre of King Ptolemy, the
God Epiphanes, the Great Eucharistea,'Aeo-
rls the Son of Ergeus to his Mochias. So-
teira (the Saviour ood’dmw

On one side, below the inscription,
is the ﬁgure of a goddess ; on the other
that of a god, probably Osiris; and
it was perhaps intended that the lting
should be introduced in the centre,
offering to the two seated deities.

Above this is a ﬂight of steps out
in the rock, leading to a grotto,
which has a niche, but no sculptures.
Following the path to the south,

