 

98

lect was rendered more injurious in
Alexandria by the seditious spirit of
the people.

The Alexandrians continued, even
under the Romans, to manilest their
turbulent character; and Tr ebcllius
Pollio tells us, they were “ of so im-
petuous and headlong a disposition,
that on the most triﬂing occasions
they were enticed to actions of the
most dangerous tendency to the re-
public. Frequently on account of
an omission of civilities, the refusal of
a place of honour at a bath, the se-
questration of a ballad, or a cabbage,
a slave's shoe, or other objects of like
importance, they have shown such
dangerous symptoms of sedition, as
to require the interference of an
armed force. So general, indeed,
was this tumultuous disposition, that
when the slave of the then governor
of Alexandria happened to be beaten
by a soldier, for telling him that his
shoes were better than the soldier’s. a
multitude immediately collected be-
fore the house of )Emilianus, the
commanding ofﬁcer, armed with every
seditious weapon, and using furious
threats. He was wounded by stones;
and javelins and swords were pointed
at and thrown at him."

The letter of Adrian also gives a
curious and far from favourable ac-
count of this people in his time;
which, though extending to all the
Egyptians, refers particularly to the
Alexandrians, as we perceive from
the mention of Serapis, the great deity
of their city. “Adrian Augustus,
to the Consul Servian, greeting: —- I
am convinced, my friend Servian, that
all the inhabitants of Egypt, of whom
you made honourable mention to me,
are triﬂing, wavering, and changing
at every change of public rumour.
The worshippers of Serapis are Chris-
tians, and those who call themselves
followers of Christ pay their devotions
to Serapis; every chief of a Jewish
synagogue, every 8amaritan, each
Christian priest, the mathematicians,
soothsayer-s, and physicians in the

more 1. —-s1.nxmma — mnmrrmrs.

 

SectI.

gymnasia, all acknowledge Serapis.
The patriarch himself, whenever he
goes into Egypt, is obliged by some
to worship Serapis. by others Christ.
The people are, of all others, the most
inclined to sedition, vain, and inso-
lent. Alexandria is opulent, wealthy,
populous, without an idle inhabitant.
They have one god (Serapis). whom
the Christians, Jews, and Gentiles
worship. I could wish that the city
practised a purer morality, and
showed itself worthy of its pro-emi-
nence in size and dignity over the
whole of Egypt. I have conceded to
it every point; I have restored its an-
cient privileges; and have conferred
on it so many more, that when I was
there I received the thanks of the in-
habitants, and immediately on my
departure they complimented my son
Verus. You have heard, too, what
they said about Antoninus :— I wish
them no other curse than that they
may be fed with their own chickens,
which are hatched in a way I am
ashamed to relate. I have forwarded
to you three drinking-cups, which have
the property of changing their colour. "

Besides the local authorities above-
mentioned, there were numerous Ro-
man oﬂieers in the time of the Cesars,
appointed from Italy, as the governor,
and others, exercising military com-
mands; the decurions, to whom the
police regulations, the superi ntendence
of the games, and the provisioning of
the city were entrusted; the agents
for transmitting corn to Rome; the
collectors of taxes and duties on ex-
ports and imports ; and many others;
among whom may he mentioned the
registrars of passports. For Strabo
seems to say that no one could leave
the port of Alexandria without their
sanction; and their authority was
maintained by “ numerous guards
stationed at the port, and every other
exit of the city.” This scrutiny,
however, seems to have been less in
the time of the Romans than under
the Ptolemaic kings.

The character of the Alexandrisns

