 

272

SECTION III.

U P P E R E G Y P T,
BETWEEN CAIRO AND THEBES.
Preliminary Information.

a. Tax Siam, on Urraa Earl-r. —b. Dnnomna'rtons or Towns, M. -—
c. Ancran'r Drvrsxona or Earn. —d. Eovrrux Taurus.

noun noun

90. Cairo to Beniaooél‘ - 977 23. Osioot to Girgeh - - 313
91. Benisooéf to Minieh - 289 24. Girgeh to l_{_eneh - - 825
22. Minieh to Osioot - 991 25. _K_eneh to Thebes - - 333

a. an: siren, on urraa zarrr.

According to Aboolfeda, the Sieed begins at Fostﬁt, or Old Cairo; all
to the south of that city having this name, and the northern part of the
country being called Reef. I may, however, observe. that the latter word,
at the present day, is applied to all “ the cultivated land," in contra-
distinction to “ the desert."

The whole of Egypt is styled in Arabic Ard-Mugr, or simply Musr
(Min), a name given also to Cairo itself; which recalls the old Hebrew
Misraim (Mim’m), “ the two Mizrs.” In the ancient Egyptian langua e it
was called Khan, or “ the land of Khem," answering to the lan of
“ Ham ” or rather “ Khem.” mentioned in the Bible; and in Coptic Chm!
or Chem. According to Arab tradition, Misraim, the son of Ham, had four
sons, Oshmoon, Athreeb, Sn, and Copt. The last of these peopled the
country between Asouan and Coptos; Oshmoon that to the north, as far as
Menoof (Memphis); Athreeb the Delta; and So the province of Bahﬁyreh,
as well as the land of Barbary. Copt, however, having conquered the mt
of Egypt, became sovereign of the whole country, and gave it his name.

The two sides of the valley seem at all -times to have been distinguished,
generally 'with reference to their position E. and W. of the river. By the
: ancient Egyptians, the desert on each side was merely styled “ the eastern
and western mountain;" and, at a later period, “ the Arabian and Libyan
shore;” parts of the mountain ranges having always had certain names
attached to them, as at the present day. They are now called “ the eastern
and western shore;” and it is remarkable, that the Arabs of the eastern
desert have substituted the term Bur-Agem “ the Persian," for the old name
“ Arabian, shore," applying it to the space between the Nile and the Red

a.
Egypt, under the Moslems, has been divided into provinces, or bay-liar,
each under the command of a hey; or, according to their new titles, Mamodr,

