 

134

ture from the period of their founda-
tion, the oldest, next to the Tayloon,
is that of “ Soltin El Hikem." near
the Bab e’ Nusr, one of the principal
gates of Cairo.

The arches are all pointed, with
a slight horse-shoe curve at the
base; and as the date of its erection
is nearly 900 years before that style
of architecture became general in
England, it oﬂ‘ers, as already stated,
another important proof of its early
adoption in Sat-scenic buildings.
“ Soltan El Hakem,” or “E1 Hakem
be-omr-lllah," the third Caliph of the
Fatemite dynasty, reigned from 996
to 102], a. n. This eccentric and
immoral prince was the founder of
the sect of Druses, still extant in Sy-
ria. He pretended to be vested with'

CAIRO. -— MOSES.

 

SechII.

a divine mission, and aided by a
derwish named Derari, succeeded in
obtaining many proselytes, by whom
he was looked upon as a prophet, or
even as an incarnation of the Deity
himself ; and it is worthy of remark,
that in an inscription over the western
door of the mask, his name is followed
by the same expressions that usually
accompany that of the founder of
Islam. But the modern Cairenes,
who are incapable of reading the
Cuﬁc, are ignorant of this secret, the
discovery of which would raise their
indignation; and I observed this feel-
ing strongly shown by some indivi-
duals to whom I lead the passage
contained in the inscription. In Ara-
bic letters, it is as follows :—

Jaeb am cable» me airs rm
tabs-:13) Wjusb as... Wye-‘9 Jwﬁwi QM

. " HvHakem be-omnlllth. Prince ot the Faithful, the blessings of God be unto

Mini and to his ancestors, the pure.

The minaret of this mosk was fortiﬁed
by the French during their possession
of Egypt, and the whole building has
now become a complete ruin. A
thoroughfare leads through it by the
very entrance over which the inscrip-
tion is placed; and as this doorway
will, in all probability, be soon taken
away to make more room for the road,
it is very desirable that some one in-
terested in such subjects (who happens
to be at Cairo at the time) should
endeavour to secure this curious docu-
ment for some European museum, ere
it be destroyed, or buried in the wall of
any new building.

The ﬁnest mosh in Cairo is un-
questionably the “ Jdma-t-e'Solgéa
Hanan,” immediately below the cita-
del, between the Room‘ylee and the
800g e’ Sullah. Its lofty and bean-
tifully ornamented porch, the rich
cornice of its towering walls, its mi-
naret, and the arches of its spacious
court, cannot fail to strike every ad-
mirer of architecture. And so im-

 

In the month Regeb, the year a.tt. 398," or a.o- 1003.

pressed are the Cairenes with its
superiority over other mosks, that they
believe the king ordered the hand of
the architect to he cut off, in order
to prevent his building any other that
should vie with it; absurdly ascrib-
ing to his hand what was due to his
head. The same story is applied to
other line buildings, of which they
wish to express their admiration, as
to the two minarets of Samalood and
Osioot, in Upper Egypt.

The interior is of a different foam
from the tnoslts of early times, and
from the generality of those at Cairo;
consisting of an hypmthral court,
with a square recess on each side,
covered by a noble and majestic arch,
that on the east being much more
spacious than the other three, and mea-
suring 69 feet 5 inches in span. At
the inner end of it are the niche of the
tundra, who prays before the congre-
gation on Friday, and the member or
pulpit; and two rows of handsome
coloured glass vases of Syrian manu-

