 

but, like the former, they are much
buried in the earth and sandaeeumu-'

west extremity of the propyla, soother
similar colouus rears its head amidst I

the vrbole breadth d' the building,
divided into dnmhen of dth

thehouses ofthe village, whiehalso ; dimmecntreonelesdingto
concealsgrestportiouoftheintebla hallsupported byfourcolumns.
resting battle-scenes on the front of l immediately before the enhance to

the towers. At the doorway itself is i the isolated ssnctuarv
the name of Sabaco, and on the aha- =
cus of the columns beyond, that of :

Ptolemy Philopator, both added at a
later epoch.

The area within, whose dimensions i

are about 190 feet by :70, is sur-
rounded by a peristyle, consisting of
tvro rovvs of columns, novr almost
concealed by hovels, and the mask of
the village. The line ofdirection no
longer continues the same behind this
court, the Remesean front having
been turned to the eastward; which
vras done in order to facilitate its con-
nection with the great temple of
Karnak. as vrell as to avoid the vici-
nity of the river.

Passing through the pylon of
Amunoph, you arrive at the great
“slonnade. where the names of this
Pharaoh and of Amun-Toonh are
sculptured. The latter, hon-ever, has
been eli‘aeed. as is generally the case
wherever it is met nith, and those of
Horus (the immediate successor of
Atnuno t Ill.) and of Osirei are in-
twducet in its stead.

The length of the colonnade, to
the nest court, is about 170 feet, but
its original breadth ls still uncertain,

 

ture, representing the cascade-test of
Queen Maut-nﬁshoi, the mother of
Amunoph. Two children nursed by
the deity of the Kile are presented
to Amun, the presiding divinity of
Thebes; and several other subjects
relate to the singular triad \vor-
shipped in this temple.

The sanctuary, which had been
destroyed by the Persians, was re-
built by Alexander (the son of
Alexander, Ptolemy heing governor
of Egypt), and bears his name in the
following dedicatory formula:—
“ This additional work made he, the
king of men, lord of the regions,
Alexander, for his father Amunre,
president of TM (Thebes); he
erected to him the sanctuary, a grand
mansion, with repairs of sandstone,
been, good, and hard stone, in lieu
of (that made by i) his majesty. the
king of men, Amunoph." Behind
the sanctuary are two other sets of
apartments, the larger ones supported
by columns. and ornamented with
rich sculpture. much of which appears
to have been gilded.

