 

824

that it yielded to few cities of Upper
Egypt in aise and magniﬁcence.
Strabo indeed says, that though in his
time reduced to the state of a small
village, it had formerly held the ﬁrst
rank next to Thebes: but this remark
of the geographer applies more par-
ticularly to the consequence it enjoyed
from being considered the burying-
place of Osiris. “ There are many
places,” says Plutarch, “ where his
corpse is said to have been deposited;
but Abydus and Memphis are men-
tioned in particular, as having the
true body; and for this reason the
rich and powerful of the Egyptians
are desirous of being buried in the
former of these cities, in older to lie,
as it were, in the same grave as Osiris
himself.” And of the other places,
which were “ reputed to be the real
sepnlchres, Busiris, Philat, and Tapo-
siris" had, according to the same
author, the principal claims. Indeed,
the fact mentioned by Plutarch is
fully conﬁrmed by modern discoveries
at Ahydus, where inscriptions pur-
porting that the deceased were brought
from some distant part of the country
to be buried there, are frequently
found within its extensive cemetery ;
and the bodies are said to be ticketed
with the name of the king in whose
reign they lived. The tombs are of
various dates, many of the early time
of the 16th, 17th, and lath dynasties;
and several curious stelm have been
found in them, of excellent work-
manship, and of great interest.

Of the two large ediﬁces above
alluded to, one, according to Strabo,
was called the “ palace of Memnon, ”
but it was in reality commenced by
Osirei, and completed by his son,
Remeses the Great. From its pecu-
liar construction and plan, it is par-
ticularly interesting, and in the style
of its roof it is singular among
Egyptian monuments. This last is
formed of large blocks of stone, ex-
tending from one architrave to the
other; not, as usual in Egyptian
buildings, on their faces, but on their

norm: 23. —emcnn ro ABIDUB.

|

 

SectIII.

sides; so that considerable thicknam
having been given to the roof, a vault
was afterwards cut into it without
endangering its solidity. The whole
has been covered with hieroglyphics
and sculptures, beautifully coloured;
and on the ceiling are the ovals ofthe
king, with stars, and transverse hands
containing hieroglyphic; The espi-
tals are in the form of the lotus, or
rather of the papyrus, bud; and the
roof is of sandstone, probably from
the quarries of Silsilis. This build-
ing is now nearly buried in the sand;
but the part formerly seen consisted
of two balls supported by columns,
communicating with each other by a
door at one end of each of its avenues
or colonnades.

The other building to the north of
this is the famous temple of Osiris,
who was worshipped at Abydus in
his most sacred character, and re-
ceived from it one of his most usual
titles, “ Lord of Ebét,"—- the Egyptian
name of that city. It was completed
by Remeses the Great, who enriched
it with a splendid sanctuary, rendered
unusually conspicuous from the ma-
terials of its walls, which were lined
throughout with oriental alabaster.
He also added to the numerous cham-
bers and courts many elegant and
highly ﬁnished sculptures; and on
the wall of one of the lateral apart-
ments the famous tablet, a list: of
kings, was sculptured by his order.

This important record contains a
series of ltings’ names, the predecessors
of Remeses the Great; but, unfortu-
nately, the commencement has been
broken away, so that the order of
succession of the earliest Pharaohs is
still a desideratum—the more to be
regretted, as few monuments remain
of that remote period. It is, how-
ever, satisfactory to ﬁnd this list fully
accords with the date and order of
the names on the existing monu-
ments, and with those given at the
Memnonium of Thebes. It was
ﬁrst discovered by Mr. Bankes in

l 1818; and having been carried away

