 

Egypt. noun 13. -— smarts. 237
crude-brick houses of the town, with 1 the same level where it was originally

the usual heaps of broken pottery.
They are of great height, conﬁrming
the remark of Herodotus, that Bu-
hastis was raised more than any other
place. when the increasing height of
the Nile rendered it necessary to ele-
vate the sites of the towns of Egypt.
Indeed, the description he gives of
the position of the temple (below the
level of the houses, from which you
looked down upon it on all sides of
the sacred enclosure), as well as of
the street leading from its vestibule
to the temple of Mercury, is fully
conﬁrmed by the actual appearance
of Tel Basta; and the interest we
feel in ﬁnding his description so ac-
curate, makes us regret that he was
not equally minute in his notice of
other places.

From what he tells us of Sabaco,
abolishing capital punishments, and
condemning those who were guilty of
crimes, to the labour of raising the
sites of their native towns, it appears
that the people of the Bubastite nome
did not enjoy a very gOod reputation,
since their capital was raised more
than that of any other town. He
then proceeds to deacnibe the temple.
“ Many others,“ he says, “ are larger
and more magniﬁcent, but none more
beautiful than this. The goddess
Bubastis is the Diana of the Greeks.
The temple forms a peninsula sur.
rounded by water on all sides. except
that by which you enter. Two canals
frotn the Nile conduct the water to
the entrance by separate channels
without uniting, and then. diverging
in opposite directions, flow round it
to the right and left. They are each
a hundred feet broad, and shaded
with trees. The propyla-a (towers
of the propylcum) are IO orgyes in
height, ornamented with beautiful
ﬁgures 6 cuhits (9 feet) high. The
temple is in the middle of the town;
and as you walk round it, you look
down upon it on every side; for
the former having been considerably
raised, while the temple continues on

founded, entirely commands it. It
is surrounded by a wall of circuit,
sculptured with ﬁgures, containing a
grove of very large trees, planted
round the body of the temple itself,
in which is the statue of the goddess.
The length and breadth of the whole
temple measures a stadium. At the
entrance is a way paved with stones
about three stadia long, and about
four plethra broad, planted on either
side with very lofty trees, which,
alter crossing the market-place in an
easterly direction, leads to the temple
of fMercury."

This street, from the temple of Pasht,
(or Bubastis) to that of Mercury,
1 found to measure 9950 feet, which
exceedsthe three stadesof Herodotus;
but the breadth, owing to the confused
mass of fallen walls, could not be
ascertained. On the way is the square
he mentions, 900 feet from the temple
of Bubastis. and apparently about
200 feet broad; though we may con-
clude its original size to have been
much greater, allowance being made
for the walls of fallen houses with
which it has been encumbered. Her
temple is entirely destroyed; but from
the stones that remain,we may readily
believe the assertion of the historian
respecting its beauty. the whole bein
of the ﬁnest red granite. lts tots
length appears to have been about
500 feet, but its breadth is no longer
traceable. The sacred enclosure im-
mediately surrounding it was about
600 feet square; and the outer cir-
cuit containing this, and the canal
that ran round it, measured 940 feet
by 1200, the breadth exceeding the
length. Few hieroglyphics remain;
and the only names are of Remeses
the Great,of Osorlon. and of Amyr-
twus. I observed part of an Egyptian
cornice, with hieroglyphics and some
small sculptures, representing Khem
and other deities; and near it another
fragment ornamented with a similar
cornice of the time of Osorhon.
1 These sculptures probably belonged

 

