 

 

U.Egypt. .

earthenware; though from the great

quantity made in everypartof Egypt,
it seems unreasonable to apply this
name to any particular town. Like
Keneh and Dallas, at the present
day, it may have been noted for a
particular kind.

ostoor, osvoor, oa atoor.

Osioot has succeeded Gitgeh as the
capital, and residence of the governor,
of Upper Egypt. It stands at some
distance from the river, and a small
village on the bank, called El Harm's,
claims the honour of being its part.
It is of considerable extent, with seve-
ral baaaars, baths, and some handsome
moslts, one of which is remarkable
for its lofty minaret. Osioot is cer-
tainly the largest and best built town
of the Sieed; and its position, with
several gardens in the vicinity, is
greatly in its favour. It may con-
tain about 90,000 inhabitants, of
whom about lOOO are Christians.
The palace of the governor is a neat
building, situated on a canal, and
surrounded by a wall. it was erected
by lbrahitn Pasha while governor of
Upper Egypt; and I regret to say
the ruined temple of Gow el Kebeer
furnished materials for its construc-
tion. in the town are a few good
houses belonging to the chili-Med, or
towns-people, but the generality are
mere hovels. The streets are narrow
and unpaved, as is the case in all the
towns of Egypt, not excepting Cairo;
where one small alley and part of a
baaaar alone have any pavement.

Some of the bazaars are little in-
ferior to those of the metropolis, and
are well supplied; and the town is
divided into quarters, each closed by
a gate, as at Cairo. On Sunday a
market is held, which is frequented
by the people of the neighbouring
villages; and in the baaaars a great
supply of stuﬂs and various commo—
dities are always kept for sale, brought
from Cairo and other parts of Egypt,
as well as from Arabia and the upper
country. 'Dtebest kind of pipe bowls

 

811

are manufactured here, which are
highly prised, and sent in num-
bers to Caito: someare somadeat
Eeneh and Asouan. which are only
inferior to those of Osioot. A large
canal conducts the water final the
river during the inundation, and the
communication with the town by land
is always kept open, by means of a
large dyke,whiclt extends thence tothe
mountains and the modern cemetery.

Osioot is the resort ofthe caravans
from Dar- Foor(Darfur),which come
through the Great Oasis.

Osioot has succeeded to the ancient
Lycopolia, “ the city of the wolves,"
so called from the worship of that
animal, or of the deity to whom it was
sacred. The wolf is still common in
Egypt (contrary to the Opinion of
Sonnini), and is found embalmed in
the ancient tombs of Lycopolis.

The Coptic name of the city, Bidont,
is the same it bore in ancient times,
as is shown by the hieroglyphics in
the catacombs. where it is written
Ssout, the initial S being doubled, as
in Sta, the Egyptian name of Sale.
The jachal-headed god is said to he
lord of the place. but instead of the
name of Anubis (Anepo? he has the
legend with horns, wh eh I ban
ascribed to Maeedo; and it remains
for us to decide whether Macedo was
the deity to whom the wolf was sacred,
or another character of Anubis.

Little now remains of the old town,
except extensive mounds, and a few
stone substructions, which are found
in digging for the foundations of
houses, or in cutting trenches on its
site. it was under the mounds on
theaoutb sidethattbeheadof esta-
tue was found in 1899, and the base-
ment of a la stone building, both
probably of ligc'unan time; and here
and there are seen the fragments of
granite blocks.

The Libyan chain advances con-
siderably towards the east, in this
part; and in the projecting corner of
the mountain above Osioot are seve-
ral grattoascut inthe limestenaroch,

