 

 

U. Egypt.

companies of men marching in an op-
posite direction, and bearing pieces of
the palm-branch. They are pro-
bably the reliefs for dragging the
statue. Beyond are men slaying an
ox and bringing the joints of meet,
before the door of the building to
which the statue was to be conveyed;
and below this the person of the tomb
isseated under a canopy. Boets,and
other subjects, are ﬁgured under the
compartment of the colossus; and on
the opposite well are an agricultural
scene, putters, a garden with a vine-
yard, and women working in thread.
The last subject is remarkable for a
new kind of loom, and the mode of
reeling oﬂ' thread from balls turning
in a case.

On the end wall, to the left of the niche,
are some ﬁsh well drawn, with the
colours in a good state of preservation.

Among other subjects in this tomb
is the ceremony of pouring a liquid
from a vase (probably ointment) over
the deceased, sprinkling the ground
before him as he walks, the bearing of
offerings, ﬁshing and fowling scenes ;
and on the outside a chase and other
spirited sculptures. Unfortunately a
great portion of the roof and walls
has fallen in, and the paintings have
been much injured. 'lhe hand of
man has also had a share in its de-
struction, which would have been
continued had the Turks found the
stone of a better quality; and the
paintings have been defaced in many
places by the mistaken piety of the
Cepts, who have drawn numerous
dark red crosses on the bodies of the
figures, and over various parts of
these interesting subjects. For its
ﬁrst discovery we are indebted to
Captains ltby and )langles. in my
previous visit to Egypt lcould not
succeed in ﬁnding this tomb; and as
others have also had great dithculty
in discovering it. I had better describe
its position. it is at the let! hand of
the ravine, behind the convent and
village of Dayr e' Nahhl, near the
top oftbe hill, and a little way to the

noon 22. —cor.ossus on a stance.

 

803

rightofesort ofroed, whichisseen
from below running to another
grotto. The following are the bear-
ings, by compass. of the principal ob-
jects from its entrancet—Antino'd
382 °; Reramoon 976° (or 6° N.
of .); Dayr e’ Nakbl 988°, three
quarters ofa mile; and El Bersheh
936°, 9 miles.

Remains of sculpture may be
found in a neighbouring tomb, and
in others, along the face ofthehill
on the other side of the ravine, but
they are of little gonsequenoe. They
are very old, and in one I observed
the name of Pepi.

In the ravine, about half a mile
from the mouth, on the right-hand
side, are some large limestone uar-
ries, with a few royal ovals an in-
scriptions in enehorial, written with
red ochre, like those in the quarries
of Toora-Misarah.

Nearly opposite E' Dayr e‘ Nekhl
is Rev-am, or has some have called
it, Radar-non, where the Pasha has a
large sugar and rum manufactory,
established about 28 years ago, by Mr.
Brine, an Englishman, who died in
1821,and wassucceeded by 88. Rani,
Antonini, and other ltelians. The
sugar is good, and reﬁned by means
of eggs; the prejudice of the Moa-
letns against the use of blood being
too great to admit of its being em-
ployed. It is sold at Cairo, and
having been put up in blue paper,
brought from Eng and for the pur-
pose, was at one time passed oﬂ'as
British imported sugar. The com-
mon kind made in the felled villages
is bought by the government, and
sent to lleramoon to be reﬁned. Of
this there are two kinds. One, which
is called white, was sold in 1894 at
90 paras the loaf of four rattles; the
other, of a brown course quality, at
about 40 or 50 paras, which from
being exported to the Soodan, or in-
terior of Africa, received the name of
Jellabee. Their mode of making
this common sugar is by queer:
the cane between two cylinder! to

