 

menses. — Dense. - meme. 7

thseye,oregreetglerefrom thesend, willnot produce it; dust
ofsnowwill ceuse it in other countries; butstilltheyerenot
mie,gensrelly spesking. Thereere,inhct.bothdirect
eccideenlceusee Amou the letter ere e blow,dustorsend,glereof
drought dwinmengother things; but the former must be looked
eedeudspecile egsnt, peculier to Egypt. This, Iem
y yan' experience, end frequent etteclts ot' Ophthelmie, erises in
treI-‘tion from excessive ess to demp; end though Egypt is, perheps.
the driest climete in the word, the diﬂ'erence between the generally dry
“when end the daupeshele'tionsontherirenor inthestreetsofCeiro
end other towns (which ere not only nerrow, but ere wetered to keep them
cool).issogreet.thet the eye is reedily eﬁ‘ected by it; perticulerly when in
thet susceptible stete, ceused by the sensible and insensibls perspiretion, to
which the skin is there subject. Hence it is. thet during the inundation,
when the eeheletions ere the greetest, ophthelmie is most prevelent. The
fecte of its non-existence in, end its speedy cure if e petient goes into, the
duct, suﬂciently substentiate this opinion; end this is further conﬁrmed by
the comperetirely comfortsble sensetion there imperted to the eye, by the
of the eir.

It is elweys edriseble to avoid sitting in e dreught, perticulsrly ofdernp
eir; end ifobligsd to go out et ni ht from e wsrm room. or the cebin ofe
beet. to weeh the eyes end f with it little cold water. by which meens
the perspiretion is not checked on going out, and the eye is prepered for the
clings to e cooler tempereture. They must, however, be wiped dry before
leering the room.

It is unnecessery to sey much respecting the plague : every one will teke
cere to evoid it, either by not going to Egypt when it reges there, or by less-
ing the country on the ﬁrst elerm. If he cennot do the lest, be my eroid it
by remeiuing in Upper Egypt. where it never goes ebove Osioét; or he they
keep querentine like other Europeens in the country. in Alesendrieceses
rerely occur from September to the end of Jennery, end et Ceiro from thee ml
of June to the end olMerch; end thet only in certein yeers. A violent
plague occurs shout once in 10 or 12 years. It is less frequent et Ceiro then
et Alessndrie. end the worse plegues ceese et Ceiro by the end of June. It
is now no longer dreedcd es of old; greet preceutions ere teken by the bosrd
of heelth. end the trestment is better understood. The ﬁrst remedy should
be en emetic; which will oﬂcn stop it if teken in time; but bleeding is
injurious.

590‘-

i
t

r
35
a?

i‘ "I
fit

d neess.

If thetrereller inquires whether the Oriental dress be necessery, I enstrer,
it is by no mesns to; end e person steering it, Who is ignorent of the len-
‘IIASI, becomes ridiculous. One remerk, however. I must be ellowed tomeke
on tees in thet country —-thet e person is never respected who is bedly
deemed. of whetever kind the costume my be, end nowhere is exterior eppeer-
ence so much thought ofes in the Best.

Cs PIIIIN".

With regsrd to presents in Egypt, it my beleid down es s generel rule thet
they erequite unnecessery ; which we: not the cese in former times. But it
will sometimes heppen thet the civilities of e She“ Billed, or even of e
Turkish governor, require some return; in which cese some English gun-
powder, e wetch, ore telescope for the letter. end e white shewlend “Mar
en ember mouth-piece for the former, ere, generelly speeking. more then they

I 4

