 

 

 

30W 0'

Cruelty has ever been, throughout 1
the East, the criterion of courage;
and the power of a monarch or the
valour of a nation have always been
estimated by the inexorahility of their

. Nor were the Egyptians
behind their Asiatic neighbours in the
appreciation of theaequalities, and the
studied introduction of unusual bar-
barity proves that their sculptors in-
tended to convey this idea to the
spectator; conﬁrming a remark of
Gibbon, that “conquerors and poets
of every age have felt the truth of a
system which derives the sublime
from the principle of terror." In
the scene before us, an insolent
soldier pulls the heard of his help-
less captive, while others wantonly
beat the suppliant. or eatiate their
fury with the sword. Beyond these
is a corps of infantry in close array,
ﬂanked by a strong body of cha-
riots; and a camp, indicated by a
rampant of Egyptian shields, with a
wicker gateway, guarded by four
companies of sentries, who are on
duty on the inner side, forms the
most interesting object in this pic-
ture. Here the booty taken from
the enemy is collected; oxen, cha-
riots, plaustra, horses, asses, sacks
of gold, represent the confusion in-
cident after a battle; and the rich-
ness of the spoil is espressed by the
weight ofa bag of gold, under which
an ass is about to fall. One chief is
receiving the salutation of a foot-
soldier; another, seated amidst the
spoil, strings his bow; and a sutler
suspends a water-skin on a pole he
has ﬁxed in the ground. Below this
a body of infantry marches home-
wards; and beyond them the bin ,
attended by his fan-bearers, holds
forth his hand to receive the homage
of the priests and principal persons,
who approach his throne to congra.
tulate his return. "is charioteer is
also in attendance, and the high-
spirited horses of his car are with
difﬁculty restrained by three grooms
who hold them. Two captives below

U.Egypt.

 

845

this are doomed to be beaten by four
Egyptian soldiers; while they in vain,
with on hands, implore the
clemency of their heedless conqueror.

The sculptures on_ the gateway
refer to the panegyriea, or assemblies,
of the king, to whom diﬂ‘erent divini-
ties are said to “ give life and power"
(or “pure life ”). Over this gate

a staircase, leading to the top
of the building, whose entrance lies
on the exterior of the east side.

Upon the west tower is represented
a battle, in which the king discharges
his arrows on the broken lines and
ﬂying chariots of the enemy; and his
ﬁgure and car are again introduced.
on the upper part, over the smaller
sculptures. In a small compartment
beyond these, which is formed by the
end of the corridor of the area, he
stands armed with a battle-axe, about
to slay the captives he holds beneath
him, and who, in the bieroglyphics
above, are called “ the chiefs of the
foreign countries.” In the nest
compartment, attended by his fan-
bearers, and still wearing his helmet.
he approaches the temple; and to
this the hieroglypltica before him ape
pear to allude.

0n the north face ofthe south-east
wall of the next area, is another
historical subject, representing Re-
mcses ll. pursuing an enemy, whose
numerous chariots, ﬂying over the
plain, endeavour to regain the river,
and seek shelter under the fortiﬁed
walls of their city. And so forcibly
do the details of this picture call to
mind the battles of the Iliad, that
some of them might serve as illus-
trations to that poem.

In order to check the approach of
the Egyptians, the enemy has crossed
the river, whose stream, divided into
a double fosse, surrounded the towered
walls of their fortiﬁed city, and op-
posed their advance by a considerable
body of chariots; while a large re-
serve of infantry, having crossed the
bridges, is postd on the other bank,
to cover the retreat or second their

0 5

TH! momma

