 

336

SECTION IV.
T H E B E S.
Preliminary Information.
a. Aaatvar. a'r Tunas—b. qucxas'r Mona or mm Tunas.

1. Ternple-Palace at Old '_K_oorneh. 9. Memnonium, or Remeseum.
8. The Two Colossi; the Vocal Memnon. 4. Rise of the Land. 5.
Temples at Medeénet Héboo— The Guest Temple—Battle Scenes. 6.
Other Ruins—Lake of Baboo. 7. Tombs ot‘ the Queue. 8. Other Tombs,
small Brick Pyramid. 9. Dayr el Medeéneh. 10. Dayr el Bihree.
ll. Tombs of the Kings. 19. Western Valley. 13. Tombs of Priests,
and Private Individuals — Arched Tombs —The oldest Tombs—Large
Tombs of the Assaseéf— Tombs of Isoornet Murraee—Tombs of Sltelth
Abd-el-Ijoorneh, the most interesting. 14. Eastern Bank— Luxor. 15.
Kamak -— Comparative Antiquity of the Buildings — Historical Sculptures.

noura race

26. Eeneh to Kossayr, by the
Moileh road - - - 898

27. geneh to Kossayr, by the
Russafa Road - - 898

nous-a no:
28. Thebes to Kossayr- - 398
29. Thebes to the ﬁrst Cata-

ract at Asouan - - 404

 

a. .uuuvar. a'r runes.

On arriving at Thebes by water, it is
customary to stop under the gimmaﬁz,
or “sycamore tree," on the west
bank,if that side is to be ﬁrst visited,
which I strongly recommend. In
going to Karnak you may land on
the bank opposite the gimnmjz, if
the channel to the east of the island
is dry; though it is perhaps as well
to go to Luxor, because it is a better
landing-place, is more convenient for
marketing purposes, and may be seen
at the same time. Asses are also
more easily obtained there for riding
over to Karnak, which is distant only
1} mile.

Travellers coming from India by

 

the Kossayr road to Thebes generally
see Karnak ﬁrst, as it lies in their
way, and as they either put up their
tent there, or live (not very com-
fortably) in the low rooms in the
northernmost of the western front
towers. I should, however, recom.
mend them not to stop there, but
defer their visit of its ruins until they
have seen Eoorneh" on the opposite
bank; otherwise they will lose much
of the interest felt at the latter, by
seeing it after Karnalt.

In coming down the Nile, you
may see Luaor, and then go on to
the sycamore tree of Iioorneh; and
after seeing that bank cross over and
visit Karnalt; if, as I before ob—

. lndescrlblng Thebes I am oh)! ed to refer to my Survey. From its siselt could not

bemade to accompany this work;
smith's, in Soho Square.

ut those who wish for it may and It at Mr. Arrow-

