Em!-

therock was tolevel the ground for
the base of the pyramid, the hill in
this part having a slight fall towards
the E. and S. ; which is very evident
from the N. W. cornerofthe scarped
rock being of gteat height, 32 feet 6
inches, and gradually decreasing to its
southern and eastern extremities. In
the level surface below this corner the
rock has been cut into squares, mea-
suring about 9 feet each way, similar
to those at Tehneh near Minieh ;
showing the manner in which the
blocks were taken out, to form this
hollow space, and to contribute at the
same time their small share towards
theconstruction of the pyramid. On
the faceofthe rock on the W. and N.
aide are two inscriptions in hierogly-
phica. One contains the name of
Remeses the Great, and of an indi-
vidual who held the ofﬁce of super-
intendent of certain functionaries
supposed to be attached to the king,
and ofﬁciating at Heliopolis. He is
called Maia (deceased). the son of
Belt ?-ii- Amun (also deceased}, who
once held the same oﬂice as his son.
The inscription is in intaglio, and of
much more modern style than the
hieroglyphics in the neighbouring
tombs; which would suﬁice to show,
if other evidence were wanting. how
much older the latter. and conse-
quently the pyramids themselves are,
than this king. And that those tombs
are of later date than the great pyra-
mid, is very evident from their being
arranged in conformity with the posi-
tion of that monument.

On the east side, and about 970
feet from the second pyramid, is a
building which some suppose to have
been a temple, not unlike that at the
end of the causeway leading to the
third pyramid. Under the brow of the
rock,to the N. of it. at e. is an arched
tomb, of the time of l’samaticus.

f. rtttan rraantn; stunt. rraaattns.

The third pyramid. of Mycerinus,
(Moscheris. Mencheres, or hlecl'eri.
nus,) has been opened by Colt tel

THIRDPYRLHID.

 

 

189

Vyse. Its entrance, as of all the
others, was found on the northern
face. The chamber has a pointed
roof, formed of stones placed one
against the other, as that of the man's
chamber in the great pyrami : and
over this is a vacant space, to prevent
the blocks pressing upon it. On
goin up to this space or entreaol,
you oolt down upon the pointed roof.
In the chamber was discovered a stone
sarcophagus, which, when on its
voyage to England, was unfortu-
nately lost, the vessel having gone
down at sea; but the wooden coﬂn,
with the name of the king, Mencherea,
or Mycerinus, which it contained
within it, is in the British Museum 3
where there is also a body, found in
the passage of this pyramid, lying
between two large stones.

Thethird, like all the other pyra-
mids, was found to have been opened
by the Caliphs. and re-closed; and
the record of Colonel Vyse's labours,
inscribed within them, very modestly
claims only the merit of re-opening
them. It had been attempted before
by the Memlooks, and then by M.
J umel, a Frenchman in the employ of
the Pasha, who hoped to enter the py-
ramid from the upper part. and who,
after throwing down numerous stones,
and making a lar hole in the north
face, relinqu° the undertaking;
having only succeeded in encumber-
ing the spot, where the entrance
really was, with a mass of hrolten
stones, and rendering the operation
more diﬂicult for any one who should
aherwards attempt it.

The third pyramid shows a modeof
construction not seen in the other two,
being built in almost perpendicular
degrees or stories, to which a sloping
face has been aherwards added. But
it has been conjectured by Dr.

. Lepsius, and doubtless with reason,

that all the pyramids were built in
this manner, and that the statement
of Herodotus, “that they ﬁnished
them from the top.“ is explained by
their ﬁrst ﬁlling up the triangular

