 

“---‘-— ---—-— -

294

the catacombs of Thebes, they are
not less curious from the light they
throw on the manners and customs
of the Egyptians. They have also
the merit of being of an earlier date
than those of Thebes; and in the
elegant chaste style of their archi-
tecture these tombs may vie with any
in the valley of the Nile.

The northern differ considerably
from the southern grottoes, though
so close together and of nearly the
same date, and may, perhaps, be
thought to excel them in the beauty
of their plan, as in the simplicity of
their columns, which seem to be the
prototype of the Doric shah. They
are polygons, of sixteen sides, each
slightly ﬂuted, except the inner face,
which was left flat for the purpose of
introducing a line of hieroglyphics.
Each ﬂute is 8 inches broad, and the
depth of the groove is barely half an
inch. The shaft is 16 feet 8% inches
in height, and of 5 feet diameter,
with a very triﬂing decrease of thick-
ness at the upper end, which is
crowned by an abacus scarcely ex-
ceeding in diameter the summit of
the column. The ceiling between
each architrave is cut into the form
of a vault, which has once been or-
namented with various devices, the
four pillars being so arranged as to
divide the chamber into a central
nave and two lateral aisles.

In these, as in all the excavated
temples and grottoes of Egypt, we
have decided proofs of their having
been imitations of buildings; which
is contrary to the Opinion of some
persons, who conclude that the earliest
were excavations in the rock, and that
constructed monuments were of later
date in Egypt. But independent of
our ﬁnding stone buildings existing
. in the country, as at the pyramids, of
the same early date as the oldest ex-
cavated monuments, we have a proof
of these last having imitated in their
style the details of constructive archi—
tecture. Thus, an architrave runs
from column to column; the abacus

non-m 22.—nf1tmu TO OSIOOT.

 

SectIlI.

(originally a separate member) is
placed between the shaft and the
architrave, neither of which would
be necessary, or have been thought of,
in mere excavations; and so obviously
unnecessary were they, that in later
times the Egyptians frequently omit-
ted both the abacus and the archi-
trave in their excavated monuments,
as in the tombs of the kings, and
several grottoes, at Thebes. But
this was an after-thought. and the
oldest excavated monuments have the
imitated features of constructive ar-
chitecture. And following out the
same train of reasoning. is it not
allowable to suppose that the vaulwd
form of the ceilings of these grottoes
of Beni Hassan were an imitation of
the arch? It was used, if not in
temples, at least in the houses and
tombs of the Egyptians; and that the
crude brick arch was of very early
date in Egypt has, I think, been
sufﬁciently shown by me; whatever
may be that of stone arches, which
have only as yet been found of the
time of l‘samsticus 11., no. 600.

The columns in the southern grot-
toes of Beni Hassan are also of the
earliest Egyptian style, though very
different from those already men-
tioned. They represent the stalks of
four water plants bound together, and
surmounted by a capital in form of a
lotus bud, which is divided, as the
shaft itself, into four projecting lobes.
The transverse section of these grot-
toes is very elegant, and the archi-
trave resembles a depressed pediment
extending over the columns, and
resting at either end on a narrow
pilaster.

All the caves of Beni Hassan are
ornamented with coloured ﬁgures, or
other ornamental devices; and the
columns, with the lower part of the
walls, in the northern grottoes, are
stained of a red colour to resemble
granite, in order to give them an ap-
pearance of greater solidity. These
imitations of hard stone, and tare
wood, were very commonly practised

