 

 

U. Egypt.

friare, Osirei, and Remeses IL,
receiving the emblems of royal power
from the hands of the deity.

The most interesting part of this
temple is the lateral hall on the west
side, which, with the three chambers
behind it, king Osirei dedicated to
his father Remeses 1.; but dying
before the completion of the hall, his
son Remeses ll. added the sculptures
that cover the interior and corridor
in front of it. Those within the
front wall, on the right hand entering
the door, represent, in the lower
compartment, king Remeses II. in-
troduced by Mandoo to Amunre,
behind whom stands his grandfather
Remeses L, bearing the emblems of
Osiris. Over him weread: “The

God, Lord of the world; son
of the Sun, lord of the powerful,
Remeses deceased, esteemed by the
great God, Lord of Ahydus (i. s.
Osiris)." Thoth, the god of letters,
notes of? the years of the panegyries
of the king on a palm branch, the
symbol of a year. In the compart-
ment above this he is introduced to
the deity by Atmoo, and by Mandoo,
who, presenting him with the emblem
of life, says, “I have accompanied
you in order that you may dedicate
the temple to your father Amnnre."
In the compartment over the door,
two ﬁgures of. Remcses 1., seated in
sacred shrines, receive the oﬂ'erings or
liturgies of his grandson, one wear-
ing the crown of the upper, the
other that of the lower count . A
perpendicular line, which divi es the
two shrines, contains this formula:
“ (This) additional work (or sculp-
ture) made he the king Remeses
(”J for his father's father, the good
God Remeses (L). in place of the
dedication of his father Osirei." 0n
the other side of the door, the king
is offering to Amnnre, Khonso,
and Remeses L, and on the side
walls, Osirei also partake-s of similar
honours.

in the centre chamber, Ositei oth-
clates before the statue of his father

TEIPLE-PLLACB AT OLD EOOBNEB.

 

841

placed in a shrine, like that before
mentioned; from which it isevident
that Remeses ll. continued the dedi-
cations to the ﬁrst Remeses. which
had been commenced by his father,
as the hieroglyphic themselves state.
All the lateral chambers, and the
hypwthral court are of Bemeses 11.,
and on the jamhe of the side doors in
the great hall, the name of his son
Pthahmen was added in the succeed-
ing reign. Queen Amee Nofriare
occurs a 'n in the court; and on
theontei eof the north-east corner,
and on the fragment of a wall on the
other (south-west) side, is an Ethio-
pian or and Capricorn, which are
brought by some of the minor priests
for the service of the temple. Little
else is deserving of notice in this
ruin, if we except the statue and
shrine of Amunre; whose door the
king has just opened, previous to his
performing “ the prescribed ceremo-
nies” in honour of the deity. In the
hieroglyphics, though much defaced,
we read, “ Behold, I open . . . my
father Amunrc.”

Following the edge of the culti-
vated land. and about 180 yards to
the west of this building. are (use me-
tt'lated statues of Recluse l 1., of black
grantite, with a few substructions to
the north of them; and 770 yards
farther to the west, lies in the culti-
vated soil, a sandstone Nod of Re-
meses lll., presenting in high relief
the figure of that king between Osiris
and Pthah. Fourteen hundred feet
byond this. in the same direction, is
a crude-livid enclosure, with large
towers, which once contained within
it a sandstone temple, dating probably
in the reign of the third 'l‘hothmea.
whose name is stamped on the bricks,
and who appearsto have been the
contemporary of Moses.

Various fragments, and remains of
crude-brick walls, proclaim the es-
istence of other ruins in its vicinity ;
and about lOOO feet farther to the
south-west is the Km orpeleee-
tereple, (temple efRe-esm 11..) erro-

Q 3

