 

 

U. Egypt. noose 22.—aaorroes or rat. at; animus. 807

noted. These ovals of the god con-
tain the name of Ra (the Sun) in his
resting-place, and seem to refer either
to his splendour. or to the omce ofo
Gem, the Egyptian Hercules, “ who
is in Atinre."

Some have supposed that the kings,
whose names are found here, be-
longed to the dynasty of shepherds,
whose memory was odious, as their
rule wasoppressive to the Egyptians;
but their era does not agree with the
date of these sculptures. For it is
evident that the reign of Atinre
Bakhsn was after Thothmcs IV, and
before Amunoph 111.; the ﬁrst
proved by an inscription I found in
the ruins of Tel el Amarna; the other
by M. Prisse's discoveries at Thebes.

They may, however, have been
later invaders; and there is reason to
believe that they made a change in
the religion. by substituting the wor-
ship of the sun, as Atinre, for that of
Amun, or Amunre, who was not re-
stored until the return of the Egyp-
tian dynasty; which would account
for the erasure of their names.

I will not enter here into this
curious question; but beg parti-
cularly to draw the attention of those
who are interested in Egyptian in-
quiry to any records that may fall in
their way respectin these foreign
princes. From their features it is
evident they were not Egyptians; their
omission in the list of kings, the
erasure of their names, the destruction
of their monuments, and the abject
submission they r uired, prove them
to have been look upon with hatred
in the country; and the peculiar
mode of worshipping and represent-
ing the Sun argues that their religion
differed from the Egyptian.

Several Greek inscriptions show
that the catacombs of Tel el Amhna
were sufﬁciently admired by ancient
travellers to be considered worthy of
a visit, like those at Thebes; and
one of the writers espresses his sur-
prise st the “skill of the sacred
masons,” rem beep-(are rue lapse

Meraw. To the south of the central
tombs is a natural grotto or amuse ill
the rock. and several workings in a
softer vein, apparently in search of a
yellow stone which crosses it here and
there; but it is diﬂcult to say for
what use it was required. Several
small houses, or huts, of rough stone
t are built here, as well as before the
catacombs themselves, probably the
abodes of workmen. in one o! the
tombs I observed a large niche cut
by the Christians, and in another the
ﬁgures of saints painted on the walls;
showing that these, like other as-
eluded spots, were once occupied by
anchorites and other devout cynics,
or served as places of refuge (tom the
persecutions exercised at did‘ereut
times against the monks of Egypt.
The extensive ruins of the old city
are seen in the plain, near the river,
a short distance to the south of the
modern village of Tel el Amarna, so
called from the tel or “ mounds" of
that ancient place. Its temples were
of sandstone, each surrounded by a
crude brick enclosure, like many of
those at Thebes and other places: but
fragments of masonry are all that
now remain, the stone ediﬁces having
been purposely destroyed, and so
completely as to leave no vestige of
their original plans. Several of the
crude brick houses are better pre-
served, and from their substructions
the form and distribution of many of
the rooms may be easily traced. In-
deed, they are calculated to give a
more correct idea of the ground plans
of Egyptian houses than any in the
valley of the Nile; and the estent of
the city is unequalled by any whose
ruins remain, except Thebes, bein
about two miles in length. thong:
of a comparatively inconsidershle
breadth. Amidst the ruins 1 ob-
served a statue with the unerased
ovals of King Bakhan, and the stone
already mentioned, bearing his name
and that of the fourth Thothmea.
Some distance to the southward,
n and nearly in a line with thevillage

 

