 

258

and from Behnesa, and the average
distance from them is the same, about
3 days‘ journey.

The Great Oasis may be visited
from Osioot, from Geeseh by Aby-
dus; from Farshoot, from Thebes, or
from Esne ; and that of Dakhleh from
Bani Adee near Manfaloot, or by the
Great Oasis.

The route by the Fyoém and the
Little Oasis includes El Hays and
Farafreh, and gives the best idea of
the character of the African desert;
but most persons who go to the Oases
will be satisﬁed with a visit to the
Little Oasis from the Fyoém or Beh-
nesa, and to the other two from some
point in Upper Egypt, returning again
to the same, or to some other, place on
the Nile.

There is little to vary the monotony
of the roads to the Oases, and the
dreary journey over a high desert
plain, or table land, scarcely diversi-
ﬁed by occasional barren valleys, has
led to the mistaken impression of the
charm of those “ islands of the
blessed.” Some have supposed them
to be cultivated spots in the midst of
a desert of sand, rich ﬁelds kept in a
state of perpetual verdure by the
streams that run through them, and
affording the same contrast to the ex-
tensive barren plain around them as
islands to the level expanse of the
ocean. These highly-wrought pic-
tures soon vanish on arriving at the
Oases. The surrounding tract, over
which the roads lead to them, consists
of a lofty table land, intersected here
and there by small shallow valleys. or
ravines, worn by the water of rain
that occasionally falls there; and the
Oases lie in certain depressions in this
mountain plain, surrounded by cliffs,
more or less precipitous, and very like
those to the E. and W. of the valley of
the Nile. In the centre, orin somepart
of this depressed plain, is the Oasis
itself, — a patch of fertile soil, com-
posed of sand and clay, which owes
its origin to the springs that rise here
and there to fertilise it. Here are

BOUT]: 18.-esmo 10 ms oases.

SeeLII.

gardens, palm groves, ﬁelds, and vil-
lages, not unlike a portion of the will}?
of the Nile, with a sandy plain beyo ,
in which stunted tamarisks, coarse
grasses, and other desert plants,
struggle to keep their heads above the
drifted sand thatcollects around them.
The distant bills, or the abrupt faces
of the high mountain plain surround-
ing the whole, complete the scene; and
if you ascend a minaret, or any point
higher than the rest, you may add to
these general features some stagnant
lakes, whose feverish exhalations cause
and account for the yellow complexion
of the inhabitants, and make it unsafe
to visit the Cases in summer or au-
tumn.
b. Requisites for the journey.

The principal things required, are
good water skins, their number de-
pending on the number of persons.
They should not be new, as they then
give a disagreeable ﬂavour to the
water. Some may be bought of the
water-carriers in Cairo, which, without
being old, have been used long enou h
to get rid of the taste of the g It.
If not to be found, the new skins
should be frequently filled and emptied
before starting. An extra set may be
taken for fear of accidents; and two
or four spare skins will do for a small
party. One of the servants should
know how to sew on a patch, which is
soon learnt; and a piece of leather,
some string, and an awl, are required
for mending the skins. Never put
the skins on the ground on a journey,
unless a mat or something be ﬁrst laid
down, to prevent the salt tainting the
water. The Arabs must provide their
own water-skins, and not be allowed
to use those of the traveller. 'l‘akea
smelt for each person. Have a
set of rape-nets, called shfbekclt, for
each camel-load, to hold boxes and
other things, by which means they are
secure, and quickly put on the camels.
If you have a dromedary-saddle, take
lar e saddle-bags of the country,
and a rope to. tie over them, to keep
them from swinging to and fro.

