 

mt-

Baharite dynasty of Memlooks. He
in 1250, and Baybérs in
1260; and as the word Steed follows
the name of Mohammed, we may
suppose him tobe the son and suc-
cessorofBaybers. He diedin 1279.
If really written during those reigns,
they would prove that the pyramid
was open at that period; which is by
no means improbable, since these
monuments served during a long
period as quarries for the erection of
masks and other buildings at Cairo;
and it is generally believed that it
always remained open after the reign of
the Caliph Mamoon. It is said to have
been ﬁrst opened by that prince, about
the year 890 a. n. ; and the long
forced to the west, below the
level of the present entrance, is sup-
posedtohave been madeatthat time;
from which we may conclude that he
found the pyramid so carefully closed,
that the stone could not be discovered
which stopped the entrance. And in
more eﬁ'ectuall y to deceive those
who should attempt to violate the
tomb. the Egyptians had placed the
pa-age93 feet from the centre, being
401 feet from the western, and 355 from
the eastern face, measuring from the
middle of the passage, along the base
of the pyramid; each of whose sides,
when entire with the casing, was 756
feet.

Theobject of the Caliph was the
discovery of treasure. Tradition, or
the accounts of ancient writers, with
whose works the Arabs at that period
had become acquainted, had informed
them of the existence of chambers and
a closed passage, and the engineers of
the day were required to discover the
entrance, and open the pyramid.

They commenced, as was natural
enough, and as the Egyptians fore-
saw, in the centre of the face, and
forced their way through the solid
masonry. The labour must have
been excessive. But when they had
penetrated to the distance of about 100
feet, the sound. or the falling of some
stones accidentally disclosed the vici-

GBBA’I‘ PYRAMID.

 

 

—————— __—__

183

nity of the real , 15 feet to
their left, by which they continued to
the great gallery and the two cham-
bers. As they returned, they cleared
the real passage to its mouth, being
more commodious than the rough
way they had forced, for the ingress
and egress of the workmen.

Access was at length obtained to
the place of the wished-for treasures,
and greet hopes were entertained, say
the Arab historians, of ﬁnding a rich
reward for their toil. But these hopes
were doomed to end in disappoint—-
ment. The pyramid was found to
have been previously entered and
riﬂed, and the Caliph was about to
abandon his vain search, when the
people began to evince their discon-
tent and to censure his ill-placed
avidity. To check their murmurs, he
had recourse to artiﬁce. He secretly
ordered a large sum of money to be
conveyed to, and buried in, the inner-
most part of the excavated passage;
and the subsequent discovery of the
supposed treasure, which was found
to be about equal to what had been
expended, satisﬁed the people; and
the Caliph gratiﬁed his own curiosity
at the expense of their labour, their
money, and their unsuspecting cre.
dulity. Abd-el-Ht‘ikm says, that a
statue resembling a man was found in
the sarcophagus, and in the statue
(mummy case) was a body, with a
breast-plate of gold and jewels, hear-
ing characters written with a pen
which no one understood. Others
mention an emerald vase of beautiful
workmanship. But the authority of
Arab writers is not alwaystobe relied
on; and it may be doubted whether
the body of the king was really de-
posited in the sarcophagus. Lord
Munster found in thesecond pyramid
the bones ofen ox, which he brought
with him to England ; but from these
no conclusion can be drawn, as
may have been taken into it alter it
was opened, either by men or wild
beasts; neither of whom were aware
how much they might pussle future

