 

Egypt. rose orncx.-— Poem-non. -— Remus. 11

Core Measure.
fa Loose Egypt. Is Upper Egypt.
8 Keddah make l Melweh. 4 iton make 1 Mid.
4 Koddah _ l Boob. 3 Each — 1 Mid.
eBoob - lWabeh. 6Wbeh —- nearlysEng.
24 page — 1 min» “3’ bushels.
t. rose orrtcs.
'ﬂsere is only one Foreig- poat-omce in Egypt, which is at Alexandria.

Lasers to England (which need not be prepaid) can be sent to Alexandria,
and forwarded without dimculty ; but those for Malta and other parts of the
Hediurranean, which require the postage to be paid, must he sent to some
one in Alexandria, who will pay them there, as this cannot be done at Cairo.

Those for Germany, and inland places in Europe, must be sent to some
home at Marseilles. in order that they may be there prepaid and forwarded,
asthisisnottobedonein Egypt.

The following is e copy of the notice in the British Government Packet
Oﬂee st Alexandria: —

“ Mails are made up at this of“ only for the following ports in the Mediter-
ranean by H. M.'s packets, namely, Malta. Gibraltar, Syra, and Marseilles;
and all letters for these ports (excepting Marseilles) must be prepaid at the
following rates, or cannot otherwise be forwarded: -— _ '

a. d.
Not exceeding ﬁan ounce - O_ 6
1 ounce - - t 0
2 ounces . -. 9 0 .
8 ounces - - 3 0 and sgpn."

j. roruu'rtoxP-aavntus. ,

The population of Egypt. which 200 years ago was estimated” 1,000,000,
now amounts only to about 1,800,000 souls, having been reduced since 1800,
from 2,500.0!» to that number. Plague, and the Turkish system'ol' 'Govern-
ment, have lessened and still continue to lessen, the population of all Egypt,
Alexandria alone excepted; which, through increasing commerce, contains
nearly ten times the number of inhabitants it had before the time of
Mohammed Ali. '

The menus of Egypt is said to be about 9,500,0001. sterling.

I. ssousssatan an.

Mohammed Ali was born at waala, a small town of .Routnelia, opposite
Thasos, in 1769; the same year that gave birth to the two most illustrious
persons of the present era, Napoleon and Wellington.

His father was Réngber, peasant, or farmer; who followed the double
occupation of tilling his lands, and deriving a part of his livelihood from the
se'a. A military life was the only one that suited the active disposition of his
son; and Mohammed Ali having entered the service of the shdrboyce or
governor of Ciwala. received the rank of Bdoloolt- Bashi, or subaltern, under
the chief of the guard (Agha-t—el bah. “ oﬂicer of the door" ). at the palace.

0n the death of his commanding oiiicer. he was appointed to succeed him
as Agha-t-el bah. and married his widow. She had two children. the
present lhrahim Pasha. born in 1789, and his young sister, the late Taféedah

I C

