 

180

of the its it once covered is now
es But the granite, closing
the upper , remains in its ori-

ginal place; an in order to avoid and
pass above it, you turn to the right by
a forced passage, and after climbing a
few rough steps, you come to its
upper extremity, and ascend to the
great gallery; on entering which to
the right you perceive the entrance to
the well, which served as another com-
munication with the lower passage.
The angle of the upper passage is the
same as that of the lower one, and
both have the same direction, which is
due south; but one runs down to a
subterranean room, the other up to the
entrance of the great gallery, where a
horizontal passage leads to what is
called the queen's chamber.

This is generally visited before as-
cending the great gallery. It is a
small chamber, with a roof formed of
blocks of stone resting against each
other, as over the entrance of the py-
ramid; and on the east side, a short
way from the door, is a sort of niche
or recess, built with stones projecting
one beyond the other, like those of
the great gallery. The object for
which it was intended is not easily
explained; and the Arabs, in hopes
of ﬁnding treasure, have broken
through the stones for some distance.
It is worthy of remark that this, and
not what is called the king’s chamber,
stands in the centre, or below the
apex, of the pyramid. The stones in
the side walls are admirably titted to-
gether, so that the joints can scarcely
be traced; and an incrustation of salt
has tended still more to give them the
appearance of having been hewn in
the solid rock, which, however, on
close inspection proves not to be the
case. You here stand 73 feet above
the level of the ground, 408 feet be-
low the ori inal summit, and 71 feet
below the oor of the king's chamber.
Returning to the great gallery, you
continue to ascend at the same angle
of 96° 41’, and then enter a horizontal
passage, once closed by four portcul-

csmo. — EXCURSION 4.

 

SectII.

lisesof granite, sliding in gsooveaol'
the same kind ofstoue, which con-
cealed and stopped the entrance to
that chamber.

It is the principal apartment in the
pyramid, its dimensions being 34 fast
long, 17 feet 7 inches broad. and 19
feet 9 inches high. The roof is ﬂat,
and formed of single blocks of granite
resting on the side walls, which are
built of the same materials. Towards
the upper end is a sarcophagus of
the same kind ofred granite, 3 feet 1
inch in height, 7 feet 4 inches long,
by 3 feet broad, which isonly sinches
less in width than the door by which
it was admitted, having been probably
introduced by means of the screw.
On being struck, it emits a very ﬁne
sound, resembling a deep-toned bell :
but the depredationa of travellers, if
continued for a few more years, will
end in reducing it to a mere frag-
ment, and give us reason to regret
the senseless destruction of this monu-
ment, while they justify a remark
made by Mohammed Ali, that Euro-
peans might do well to remember,
when censoring the ignorance of the
Turks in destroying so many relics
of antiquity, that they themselves con-
tribute not a little to their deteriora-
tion, and set a bad example to those
of whom they complain. The sarco-
phagus is entirely destitute of hiero-
glyphics and every kind of sculpture;
which is the more singular, as it is the
very place of all others where we
might espect to ﬁnd them. And this
has been used as an argument in
favour of the assumption, that hiero-
glyphics were not known at the time
the pyramids were erected. But the
authority of Herodotus, who saw an
inscription on the face of the great
pyramid, the assertion of Abd-el-
Aseea, who mentions the same thing,
and the sculptures of.the tombs in
the vicinity bearing the name of
Cheepe, Suphis, or Shofo, by whom it
was erected, as well as the probability
that people so far advanced in the
science of architecture could not be

