 

196

require this causeway to have been
30.50 feet in length, a measurement
agreeing very wel with the 1000 yards
of Pococlte, though we can now no
longer trace it for more than 1424
feet; the rest being buried by the in-
crease of the alluvial deposit of the
inundation. Its present breadth is
only 32 feet, the outer faces having
fallen, but the height of 85 exceeds
that given by Herodotus; and it is
evident, from the actual height of the
hill, from 80 to 85 feet, to whose
surface the causeway necessarily
reached, and from his allowing 100
feet from the plain to the top of this
bill, that the expression 8 orgyes (48
feet) is an oversight either of the
historian or his copyists. It was re-
ﬁimd by the caliphs and Memloolt
age, who made use of the same
causeway to carry back to the “ Ara-
bian shore " those blocks that had be-
fore cost so much time and labour
to transport from its mountains; and
several of the ﬁnest buildings of the
capital were constructed with the
stones of the quarried pyramid.
There does not appear to have been
any causeway exclusively belonging
to the second pyramid, unless we sup-
pose it to have been taken away when
no longer required, and the stones
used for other purposes; and were
it not for the presence of the cause-
way of the third pyramid, we might
attribute the northern one to the
caliphs, and thus explain the state-
ment of Diodorus, who says, that
owing to the sandy base on which it
was built, it had entirely disap-
peared in his time. There are, indeed,
many black stones, a sort of basal-
tic trap, lying some way to the south
of the great causeway, which might
be supposed to have belonged to, and
to point out the site of, a fallen cause-
way; and others of the same kind of
stone appear near the centre of the
eastern face of the great pyramid, as
if forming part of the same work.
There is some probability of the cause-
way having been made of hard stone

We — EXCURSION 4e

 

Sect. II.
of this kind: the same basaltic blocks

are found near the other p ids of
Abooseer and mm: and if the
tombs interfere with the line it took,
we may account for this by supposing
them to have been built after the py-
ramid was completed, and the cause-
way no longer wanted. Again, it
is more likely that the causeway
should carry the stones towards the
centre, than to the corner, of the
pyramid; and the direction of the
present causeway, instead of being
towards the spot whence the stones
were brought, is in the line of Cairo.
This certainly seems to indicate an
Arab origin. On the other hand,
that of the third pyramid is not of
black stone ; it is evidently Egyptian,
and not Arab work: no mention is
made by Herodotus or others of
blaclt stone; and the same expres-
sion of “polished stones," applied to
this as to the pyramid, are strong ar-
guments in favour of the present
causeway being the original one
built by Cheops, subsequently re-
paired by the Arab sultans.

j. suau. rraamos naaa run or

ORION—”A1118! 0F fill 300‘.

To the east of the great pyramid
are three smaller ones, built in de-
grees or stages, somewhat larger than
the three on the south of the pyramid
of Mycerinus. The centre one is
stated by Herodotus to have been
erected by the daughter of Cheops, of
whom he relates a ridiculous story,
only surpassed in improbability by
another he tells of the daughter of
Rhampsinitus. It is 122 feet square,
which is less than the measurement
given by the historian of 1} pie-
thrum, or about 150 feet; but this
difference ma be accounted for by
its ruined con ition. About 180 feet
to the north of the northernmost of
these three small pyramids, and 800
to the east of that of Cheops, is a
passage cut in the rock, descending
from the north, and ascending again
to the south, which might be sup-

