__—._____
.-

 

U. Egypt.

site hank are many mounds of larger
towns. whose ancient names are un-
known.

lament. between 9 and 8 miles 8.
of Benisooef, on the river side, has
mounds, but no vestiges of ruins, nor,
indeed, any relic of antiquity, except
the margin of a well. It is called
lament el Bahr (“ of the river "), to
distinguish it from lament (miscalled
Sidment) e’ Gebel (“ of the moun-
tain ”), which stands at the foot of
the hills separating the Fioom from
the valley of the Nile. This name
cannot fail to call to mind lsmendes,
and may,perhaps, be the Shbent of
the Coptic list of towns in this dis-
trict.

Anasieh, or 0m cl Kéetnin, “the
mother of the mounds," the ancient
city of Hercules, lies inland to the
west. The Coptic name of that
town, Ehnes or Hues, is readily
traced, in the modern Anesieh, as its
position by the lolly mounds on which
it stands. That this is the site of
Heracleopolis there is no question,
though the Arabic and Coptic names
bear no resemblance to that of ahe
deity, Sem or Com, the Egyptian
Hercules. It was here that the ich-
ncumon, the enemy of the crocodile,
was particularly worshipped; and the
respect paid to that animal by the
lieracleopolites, the immediate neigh-
bours of the Arsino'ite or Crocodile-
polite nome. led, in late times, during
the rule of the Romans, to serious
disputes, which terminated in blood-
shed. and made the contending par-
ttes forget the respect due to the sa-
cred monuments of their adversaries.
And judging from what Pliny states
respecting the injuries done to the
famous labyrinth, there is more rea-
son to attribute the destruction of
that building to the superstitious pre-
Judices of the lieracleopolites, than
to the ordinary ravages of time.

At Tanseh, Brangeh, Bibbeh, Sits.
and other places, are the mounds of
old towns, with whose names we are

unat'quainted. Pococke supposes

noun 2l.—nmeooér 'ro nines.

 

283

Brangeh (or, as he calls it, Beran-
gieh), to be Cynopolis; but the posi-
tion of that town was farther to the
south. Bihbeh, which has succeeded
to an ancient town, is noted for a
Copt convent, and for an ima nary
Modem santon, thence called E Bib-
bdwee. This holy individual is the
oti'spring of a clever artiﬁce of the
Christians; who, to secure their
church from outrage, during the dis-
turbances that formerly took place in
Egypt, ve out that a Moslem shekh
presid over and dwelt in its pre-
cincts; and the priests to this dayot'ell
them a beterodos story of his esp ts,
and his wars 'nst the inﬁdels. The
name of inﬁdTis indeﬁnite; it may
satisfy the Moslem or the Christian,
according to his peculiar applica-
tion of the word; andthe pious false-
hood is at all events as true as the scene
represented by the picture. 80de
indeed has it succeeded, that visiths‘ are
f uentl id by the passing oe-
lentill to thye Psaanctuary of this revered
personage; he resdsthe Fat’ha before
the likeness of a man (though so
strictly forbidden by his religionlv
and that too within the walls of a
Christian church; and he gladly con-
tributes a few paras for the lamps
burnt before it, with the full persua-
sion that his voyage will be prospe-
rous, through the good oiiices of the
saint. But while the priest aho re-
ceives the boon tells the plausible tale
of the power of the “shehh,” .the in-
different spectator, who recognises the
usual representation of St. George
and the Dragon, my smile at the
credulity and the ignorance of the
donor. The conversion of St. George
into a Moslem saint may appear
stran e to an Englishman; but it is
fan to he far less diﬂicult to de-
ceive an Egyptian by this clumsy
imposition, than to persuade a Copt
Christian that his guardian saint, wtth
the same ahite horse, green dragon,
and other accessories. holds a similar
tutelary poet in England. The most
credulous, as well as the most rea-

