 

 

U. Egypt. 3. 29.—sn.s1us-—sssnsrosx comma.

themselves. are several cuIious grotp
tom and tablets of hieroglyphies. exe-
cuted inthe early time of the Pha-
raohs of the eighteenth dynasty.

It Is not by the sixe and extent of

.the monuments of Upper Egypt

alone that we are enabled to judge
of the stupendous works executed
by the ancient Eyptians:
quarries would an cc to prove the
character they bore. were the gigantic
ruins olThebes and other cities no
longer to existence; and safely may
we apply the expression used by
Pliny. in speaking of the porphyry
quarries. to those of Silsilis: “quan-
tislibet molibus cadendis suﬁeiunt
lspidicinm."

The ﬁrst grotto to the north con-
sists of a long corridor. supported by
four pillars. cut in the face of the
roclt. on which. as well as on the
interior wall. are sculptured several
tablets of hieroglyphics, beating the
names of diﬂ'enent kings. It was
commenced by Horus. the successor
of the third AmunOph, the ninth
Pharaoh of the eighteenth dynasty.
who has here commemorated his de-
feat of the Rush (C ush). or Ethio-
pians. He is represented in a car,
pursuing with bended how the ﬂying
enemy, who. being completely routed.
sue for peace. lie is then borne in
a splendid shrine by the Egyptian
chief's. preceded by his troops, and by
captives of the conquered nation; a
trumpeter having gircn the signal
for the procession to march. Other
soldiers are employed In bringing the
prisoners they have captured; and In
another part. the monarch is seen re-
ceising the emblem of life from the
god AmIIn Re.

Other of these tablets are of the
time of Remeses ll. .. of his son
Pthahmen. and of l’thah-tnen-Seo
pthah. the ﬁrst king of the nineteenth
dynasty. In an historical point of
view they are exceedingly interest-
ing. particularly from the mention
at assemblies held in the thirtieth.
thirty-fourth, thirty- ”seventh and for-

 

411

ty-fourth years of Ramses the Great;
from the presence ofthe namedlal-
not‘rl. the queen of Pthehmen. being
the same as that of his mother. the
second wife of Remorse; and from
theirreletingto otherofthssoneof
that conqueror.

These tablets. like similar ones at
Asouan. show that the stones used' In
different Egyptian buildings were
taken from the quarries in their ri-
cinity . but It must be cliched that
en ious other parts of the same sand-
stone strata aﬂ'orded their share d
materials; as may be seen ﬁom the
numerous quarries about El Hell“.
and on the way to Silsilis.
but triﬂing when compared with Mtge
extensive ones of this mountain.

The earliest Egyptian ediﬁces were
principally erected of limestone.
which continued In use occasionall
even in Upper Egypt, till the com-
mencement of the eighteenth dy-
nasty; though the Pharaohs ol' the
sixteenth had already introduced the
sandstone of Silsilis to build the walls
and colonnades of the larger temples;
and its ﬁtness for masonry. its du-
rability. and the evenness of its main
became so thoroughly appreciated by
their architects. during the eighteenth
and succeeding dynasties. that it was
from that time almost exclusively
used in building the monuments of
the 'l'heba‘id. But as its texture was
less suited for the reception of colour
than the smoother limestone, they
put-pared its surface with a coat of
calcareous composition. which. while
it prevented the stone from imbibing
an unnecessary quantity of colour.
afforded greater facility for the exe-
cution ol' the outlines. The subjects
when sculptured. either in relief or
integlio. were again coated with the
same substance. to receive the ﬁnal
colouring: and the details of the
ﬁgures and of the other objects could
thereby be ﬁnished with a precision
and delicacy. in rain to be expected
on the rough and absorbent surface
of the sandstone

s I

