 

204

close to the dyke below Sewn,
where a hollow spot containing water
fora great part of the year still re-
mains, and the recess in the low hills
to the westward of it accords with
the direction it took. It was across
this lake that the deed were trans-
ported to the tombs on the hill about
the pyramids of Sskksra, and other
parts of the cemetery of Memphis;
and here were performed the cere-
monies which gave rise to some of the
fables of Greek mythology.

- Diodorus, in speaking of their
adoption from Egypt, says, “ Orpheus
had learned of the Egyptians the
greater part of his mystical ceremo-
nies; the orgies that celebrate the
wanderings (of Ceres), and the my-
thology of the shades below . . ., and
the punishments of the impious in
Tarts: us, the Elysian plains of the
virtuous, and the common imagery
of ﬁction, were all copied from the
Egyptian funerals. Hermes, the con-
ductor of souls, was, according to the
old institution of Egypt, to convey
the body of Apia to an appointed
place, where it was received by a man
wearing the mask of Cerberus; and
Orpheus having related this among
the Greeks, the fable was adopted by
Homer, who makes the Cyllenian
Hermes call forth the souls of the
suitors, holding his staﬂ‘ in his hand.
. . . . The river he calls ocean, as
they say, because the Egyptians call
the Nile oceans: in their language;
the gates of the sun are derived
from Heliopolis; and the meadow is
so called from the lake named Ache-
rusian, near Memphis, which is sur-
rounded by beautiful meadows and
canals, with lotus and ﬂowering
rushes. And it is consistent with
the imitation to make the dead inhabit
those places. because the greater
number and the most considerable
of the Egyptian tombs are there;
the bodies being ferried over the
river and the Acherusian lake, and
deposited in the catacombs destined
to receive them. And the rest of

CAIRO. — memos 4.

1

 

Sect. II.

the Grecian mythology respecting
Hades agrees also with the present
practice of Egypgwhere a boat, celled
Baris, carries over the bodies, and a
penny is given for the fare to the
boetmen, who is called Charon in the
language of the country. They say
there is also, in the neighbourhood of
the same place, a temple of the noc-
turnal Hecate, with the gates of Co-
cytus and of Lethe, fastened with
brasen bars; and besides, other gates
of Truth, and near them a ﬁgure
of Justice, without a head. In the
city of Acanthsz, on the Libyan side
of the Nile, 120 stadia (about 14
miles) from Memphis, they say there
is a barrel pierced with holes, to
which 360 priests carry water from
the Nile: and a mystery is acted in
an assembly in that neighbourhood, in
which a man is made to twist one end
of a long rope, while other persons
untwist the other end: an allusion to
which has become proverbial in
Greece. Melampus, they say, brought
from Egypt the mysteries of Bacchus,
the stories of Saturn, and the battles
of the Titans. Daedalus imitated the
Egyptian labyrinth in that which he
built forking Minos; the Egyptian
labyrinth having been constructed by
Mendes, or by Marius, an ancient
king many years before his time:
and the style of the ancient statues
in Egypt is the same with that of the
statues sculptured in Greece. They
also say that the very tine propylon
of Vulcan in Memphis was the work
of Dwdalus as an architect, and that
being admired for it, he had the ho-
nour of obtaining a place in the same
temple for a wooden statue of him-
self, the work of his own hands;
that his talents and inventive facul-
ties at last acquired him even divine
honours; and that there is to this day
a temple of Daedalus, on one of the
islands near Memphis, which is re-
vered by the neighbouring inhabi-
tants."

The principal deities of Memphis
were Pthah, Apis, and Bubastis; and

