 

 

Ema nous-n 10. -— PILUSIUII — am. 223

stronglé fortiﬁed, being the bulwark great for the position of Pompey’s
of the tian frontier on the eastern tomb.
side, a was considered the “ Key,” On the coast to the east of Pa-
or, as Eaehiel calls it, the “ Strength lusium, Pliny mentions “ Chabri.
of Egypt.” It was called in Scrip- Castra, Casius Mona, the sanctuary
ture “Sin." (Eaelt. xxx. 15, 16.) of Jupiter Casius, the tumulus of
Near this the unfortunate Pompey Pompey, and Ostracina," which were
met his death, basely murdered by on the Lake Sirbonis. Ostracina is
order of Ptolemy and his minister now Strelti, and is about 98 mil.
Pbotinus, whose protection he had west of El Areesh.
claimed, a. e. 48. Magdolum is supposed to have been
The young king was engaged in a shout half way between Tacasarta and
war with his sister Cleopatra, whom Penta Schanon, which last may have
he had just before expelled the king- been at the modern KetéEh.
dom; and the two armies were en- Ebn Said says that the sea of
camped apposite each other in the Kolaim (Arabian Gulf) is so close
vicinity of Pelusium, when the galley to the Mediterranean, in this part,
of Pompey arrived; and Achilles, that Amer ehn el As had intended
who afterwards ﬁgured so conspicu- cutting a canal throu h the Isthmus,
ously in the Alexandrian war against at the spot called the rocodile‘s Tail,
Cesar, aided by L. Septitnius and but was prevented by Omar, who
Sebinus, Romans in the Egyptian feared lest the Greek pirates should
service, “ under pretence of taking plunder the pilgrims of Mecca.
him ashore, invited him into a boat El Areesh (Arish) has succeeded
and treacherously slew him." A to the ancient Rhinocolura, which
mound of sand on the coast, about was a place of exile in the time of the
4 hours to the astuf Pelusium, called Pharaohs, and was so called hum the
by the Arabs the Roman hill, is said malefactors having their “ noses cut
to record the spot of Pompey's death. off," instead of the punishment of
His body was indeed burnt on the death. “ At one season of the year
sea-shore by his freedman Philip, and numerous quails visited the district,
Cesar is said to have raised a menu. which they caught in long nets made
ment to his memory, which was after- with (fastened to) split reeds ;" and
wards repaired by Adrian, and visited . these birds are often met with through-
by Severus. But “ the ashes of Pom- 5 out this part of the desert, as in the
pey were talten to his widow, Cor. l days of Actisanes.
nelia, who buried them at his villa Weds-e el Areeah is supposed tube
near Alba," though Lucan would . the torrent or “ river of Egypt,”
seem to say that they were still in which wasthe ancient boundaryonthe
Egypt in his time. Be this as it may, I side of Syria.
the tomb might still remain; but The road continues very near the
Pliny places ittothe east of Pelusium, see-coast, the whole way from El
in the direction of Mons Casius. The - Areesh to Gen. Rather more than
“ Roman hill" cannot therefore be l halfway from El Areesh is Refah,
the "tumulus" of Pompey; and the l the ancient llhaphia, oil” the reed to
tomb which Aboolfeda, on the au- . the westward; Khan Yoones b“
thority of Ebn llauhel, gives to l succeeded to Yenisus, and Anthodon
Galen, may perhaps be transferred to I probably stood to the 8. of Wade.
Pompey. (‘ertain it is that the phy- - Sheriah.
sieian of Aurelius was not buried in At Case a quarantine is performed
Egypt, but in his native place Per- ; ofa few days. according to the sup-
gamus; and the distance from Pelu- posed state of Egypt.
aium, mentioned by Pliny, seems tool Gaaa or Ghuaaeh. ones a large
I. 4

 

