 

INTRODUCTION. XXV

hire of a boat across the harbour is only M. each person ; and if M.
be given for two persons with their luggage, it is more than enough.
This is the price of a boat when hired for a whole hour; and the
same is paid to a guardian, who accompanies any one on a visit to
a friend in the lauretto. You cannot pay a boat for less than half
the hour, when taken by time.

Porters at Malta are far more troublesome than hoatmen, who are
generally very civil and easily satisﬁed. They are generally paid
64!. for each package, but if very heavy 8d., 10d, and sometimes Is.
There are also carts with one horse, which will take a load from the
Marina to the main street for the same sum. With regard to a
number of small packages, I recommend a traveller always to have
as few as possible; it is better to put things together in a single
box, or case, than to have many little parcels, which are easily lost,
and give an inﬁnity of trouble in looking after; and if it is thought
necessary to have several of these encumbrances, they had better be
put together into a bag when carried from place to place. The less
baggage one has the better. Have as many comforts as possible in
a small space, but no superﬂuities. No better name was ever
applied to any thing than “fmpcdimmta” to “baggage" by the
Romans; and an old traveller will always have all he requires very
compactly put away in a small compass.

In landing from a ship in the great harbour, as, for instance, from
the Marseilles, Naples, or Gibraltar steamers, the best plan is to order
the hoatmen to take you to the “ custom-house," and on landing
your things, give him ls., which is liberal pay (in spite of his pre-
tending to be dissatisﬁed), and call for one of the many carts that
are always kept ready close to the spot. Your baggage being put
upon it, take care to accompany, or to send your servant with it;
and on arriving at the hotel dismiss the cart with la, and the porters
who have loaded it, and carried the things to your rooms, with
another. They would not be satisﬁed with 5a., or any other sum;
but of this no notice need be taken, being well paid; and the as-
sumption of discontent is part of their profession.

In the great harbour the hire of boats is,——from the Ni): Man-
giare stairs, or the Calcara gate, to the ships, or to the dockyard,
-2d. there, and the same back: and from this harbour to St.
Julian‘s Bay, ls. You may pay more if you like, and give (id. in-
stead of 24. At night the prices are increased.

Hotels at Malta. —The best hotels in Valctta are, Morell's, in
Stnda Forni; Dunsford‘s, in Strada Beale; Madame Goubeau‘s, or
a

