 

202
r. ssnsrnss.

WaistyledinCoptiehlt-I‘.
Momﬁendﬂenﬁwbicblastistn-

Membe, and Menoﬁ'e Ms—nofre).
“the place of good;" which Plu-
tarh translates “ the haven of good
men ;" though it seems ratherto re.
fer totheabode ofthe Deity,the
representative of goodness, than to
the virtues of its inhabitants. In
hieroglyphic: it was styled “ Mes
nofre, the land of the pyramid ;" and
sometimes Ei-Pthah, “ the abode of
Pthah," as well as “thecity ofthe
white wall. "

In the time of Aboolfeda, s.n.
1849, the remains of Memphis were
very extensive, of which little or
nothing now exists but a large co-
lossus of Remeses I 1., a few frag-
ments of granite, and some sub-
structions. Herodotus and Diodorus
state that two statues were erected by
Sesostris, one of himself and another
of his queen, with those of four of
his sons, before the temple of Vulcan
or Pthah; and as the name of that
con ueror seems often to have been ap-
pli to Remeses, it is probable that
this is one of the two they mention.
The statues of Sesostris were 30 cu-
bits (45 feet) high; the other four,
20 cubits (30 feet). The colossus is
unfortunately broken at the feet, and
part of the cap is wanting; but its
total height may be estimated at 42
feet 8 inches, without the pedestal.
The expression of the face, which
is perfectly preserved, is very beau-
tiful.

The stone is a white silicious lime-
stone, very hard, and capable of tak-
ing a high polish. From the neck of
the king is suspended on amulet or
breast-plate, like that of the Urim and
Thummim of the Hebrews, in which
is the royal prenomen supported by

 

little above the level of his knee.
Iftbisbe really oneofthestatues

mentioned by the historian. it marks

the site of the famous temple of

Pthah; a fact thatmightbe ascer-
tained by excavating behind it, follow-
ing the direction in which it stood.
Durin the high Nile, it is nurly
cove with water, and parts of the
ancient Memphis are no longer ap-
proachable; the traveller, therefore,
who goes up the Nile in October, had
better defer his visit to Mitrahenny
till his return. This beautiful statue
was discovered by Signor Caviglia and
Mr. Sloane, by whom it was given
to the British Museum, on condition
of its being taken to England, but the
fear of the expense seems to have
hitherto prevented its removal. When
the Turks have burnt it for lime, it
will be regretted.

There is very little else worthy of
remark amidst the mounds of Mem-
phis. Near the colossus lies a small
ﬁgure of red granite, broken at the
wrist. To the south of this is a lime-
stone block, on which is sculptured
the god Nilus, probably binding the
throne of a king, which is broken a-
way; and beyond it are two statues
of red granite, one entirely corroded
by exposure, the other holding a long
stela, surmounted by the bust of a king
wearing a necklace and a head-dress of
horns, with a globe and two ostrich
feathers. 0n the stela is a column
of hieroglyphics, containing the ban-
ner and name of Remeses the Great,
with the title “ Lord of the assemblies,
like his father Pthah.”

Though the mounds of Memphis
lie chieﬂy about Mitrahenny, it is pro-

