 

10 IURBAY‘B HAND-BOOK ADVERTISER.

COLOGNE 0. BHIHE.

+

JOHN MARIA FARINA,

(0”081'1'. m me 3150'.)

suavsvos 1'0 H. H. queen VICTORIA; To H. H. r. w. m., use or
PRUSSIA ; Hm. mucous .I., memos or 8088M;
THE mic or HANOVER, are, ere.

ONLY GENUINE EAU DE COLOGNE.

 

THE frequency of mistakes, which are sometimes accidental, but for the

mmtperttheruultofdempﬂonpnctisedbyinterutedindividuehinducemeto
reqn-tthsattentionoftheEnglishtlavcﬂeniothefonowingstatansntz—

Sincetbsﬂrstestabllehmsntofmyhouseinlmtherebssnevsr besnenypertner
intbebueineeswhodidnotbearthenameof Famnor hes the mannhcture of a
second and cheaper quality of homeowners ever been sttanpted. Since 1828,
however, several inhabitants of Cologne have entered into engagementswithltellensof
the name oanrine,end, by employing that name, have succeeded to everygreat
extentin foisting an inferior and spurious article upon the Public.

But they have to this rivalry in trade not been satisﬁed with the mere usurpation
of my name; the concluding phrase, “opposite the Julich'e Place,” which had solong
existed my special property, was not allowed to remain in its integrity. To deceive
end lead astray again those of the public who are not fully conversant withthe locality
and circumstances, the competition seized hold of the word “ opposite,” and more than
one settled in my immediate neighbourhood, that they might avail themselves to the
mu extent of the phrase " opposite the Julich'e Place.” When tried before thecourts, the
use only of the word "opposite ” was forbidden, which, however, has been supplied by the
word “ at " or “near," with the addition ofthe number oftheir houses Itis true, another
less ﬂagrant, butnot less deceitful invention was, that several of my imitators established
the sites of their manufactoriee in other public places of the town, to enable them to make
use of the phrase "opposite—Place, or Mariu,”on their address cards or labels,
speculating with respect to the proper name “Julicla, " on the carelessness or forgetfulneas
of the consumer. I therefore beg to inform all strangers visiting Cologne that my
establishment, which has existed since 1709, is exactly opposite the J ulich's Place,
forming the corner of the two streets, Unter Goldschmidt and Chen liarepforten, No. 23,
andthat it maybe the more eesilyrecognised, I have putup thearmsof England,
Russia, are be , in the front of my house. By calling the attention of the publicto
this notice, 1 hope to check that system of imposition which has been so long practised
towards ioreigners by coachmen, valets de place, and others who receive bribes h'om
theyendors of the many spurious compounds sold under my name.

A new proof of the excellence of in manufacture has been put beyond all doubt by
the fhct of the Jury of the Great Exhibition in London having awarded as the Prize
Medal—Bee the Oﬁcial Statement in No. 20,984, page 8 of the “ Times” ofthis month.

Cocoon, October, 1851. J. M. FARINA,
Opposite the Inuch's tines.

’5' div-Whom Agents in London on Messrs. J. & R. M‘Orucns,
7, Old Jewry; and my Agent for Great .Bﬁtain is Mr. Wu. Locum,
l5, ‘M’addoz Street, Regmt Street and 46, Lune Street, City.

