 

30m 22. — IL

U.Egypt.

stream of water through its centre. '

Many of the walls are still standing,
and some of the arches within the
houses are well preserved. It is,
however, probable that they are not
of very ancient date, and many may
he of slate Roman or Christian time.
On the south side of the ravine is a
large crude brick enclosure, perhaps
a fort; and near the liver are remains
of masonry. apparently part of an
old quay. In some of the walls the
bricks, instead of being in horizontal
courses, are in curved lines. like the
enclosure of a temple at Thebes.
called Dayr el Medeéneh. Many of
them are of considerable height, and
in some places the etched windows
remain, even of the upper stories.
In several of the grottoes, up the
ravine to the north-east, are found
human bones and the mummied
bodies of dogs. One of them has
the Egyptian cornice, and in ano-
ther are some enchonial inscriptions.
The ancient name of El Hart-lb is
uncertain. The Itinerary mentions
no place between Pesla and Ilie-
recon.

About a mile and a half inland on
the western side of the Nile is l_(_os-
séiih, the ancient Custe, Chusr, or
Chusis; in Coptic Kiss-km}. Ac-
cording to the Greeks, Venus Urania
was the deity of the place; and
Elian reports that a sacred cow was
there worshipped, which is petfcctly
consistent with the character of the
Egyptian Venus, of whom that ani-
mal was an emblem. His words are,
“it is a small but elegant town, in
the llermOpolite name. where they
worship Venus called Urania (the
heavenly). and also a cow."

The diﬂ'eience between the low
and high Nile In this part of Egypt
is 91 feet three inches, judging from
the highest mark made by the water
on the cliil‘s of Gebel Alioofaiydce,
which rise abruptly from the river.

About three miles above El Hart-lb,
and beyond the bend of the river, is
an old convent called Dayr el Baa.

 

Ham — mm. 309

lens. The name is common to many
of these monastic retreats. being de-
rived from the custom of barricading
the doors and raising every thing they
required by a “pulley," as at Dayr
Antonios and Dayr Bdloa, in the
eastern desert. Near the convent are
the ruins of another old town, and
some sepulchral grottoea, in one of
which is the representation of a corpse
placed on a bier, attended by Isis.
Nephthys, and Anubis, with some
Greek inscriptions. It is the same
subject which has been absurdly mis-
taken for steer-urinal A portion of
the Gisr el Agods appears near this
old town, which may possibly lay
claim to the site of Hieracon, though
the distances in the Itinerary do not
quite agree with its position.

In former times the Nile ran be-
neath this part of the eastern chain,
but having now changed its bed, it
has swept away the greater part of
Manfaloot, in spite of all the precau-
tions of the government in sinking
boats. and the usual contrivances for
checking its encroachment. The old
channel is now dry nearly all the
year, and is only :3 small strum
during the inundation. On its eastern
hank stands the village of Mi‘bdeh,
near which are some extensive caverns
cut in the rock, which served as
places of sepulture for crocodiles. I
did not visit the caves themselves, but
from specimens l have seen taken out
of them, the mummies are frequently
well preserved, and of great size.

Between Daroot e' Sheree-f and
Manfaloot, on the west bank. is the
site of an old town, called in Coptic
Mai-Ian, whose Arabic name accord.
ing to the M88. is Meade a! Ashe ;
and between this last and Mankabdt,
mention is made of Ilar'itout, the suc-
cessor or a town of the same name,
in Coptic Marithbot. This last may
signify the "place ofThoth."

Mcrafaloot, ot' Nit-fl“. in C09-
tic Manbalot, is a header or
maiket town, and the residence of

a W.“ Naser. ltisot’con-

