 

 

 

(£11); an eye put out inan an‘ray,
halftbatdﬁl; atoothonetenth, and
so on.

“end eﬁcient recipe for stimu-

° the torpid temperament of the
I isbribesy ; and the persons
to whom bribes are administered with
inguhﬂy good effect, are the bash-
Hteb and the other scribes. And so
impatient are they of neglect in this
parﬁcular, thattbe moment they think
some of these attentions to Mahitemeh
etiquette ought to show themseltes,
thy begin to put forth every difﬁculty
as a delicate hint. Whenever the
simple—minded applicant, trusting to
theevident justice of his cause, ap-
pears before them, they are far too
much occupied with other papers of
long standing to attend to him: a
particular person, whose presence is
absolutely required, is not to be found;
or some oﬂicial excuse is invented to
check the arrangement of the business,
and he is put 06' from day to day nith
a chance of success. On the appear.
ance of these merited symptoms, a
desert:- should, in doctorial language,
be immediately exhibited in a sufﬁ-
ciently largedose to allay the irritation;
and it is surprising to observe how the
gladdcned face of the mancof-law es-
pands on talting the welcome potion.
It is of course a matter that passes
in secret between the donor and the
receiver; for, though notorious, se.
crecy is required for the acceptance of
a bribe unshared by the Cadi or his
cﬂ'endee; and the Cadi himself is
never propitiated with a similar uﬂ'er-
ing unless the case is very set itttts, and
requires that touching appeal to his
feelings.

ssctmstox l. -—-o. our catao.

Old Cairo, or Musr el Atéehch, is
a ride of about 3 miles from Cairo.
It was originally exiled lint-tit. it
was founded by Amer ebn t-i As, nho
conquered Egypt in the caliphate of
Omar, s. n. 638 ; and is said to have
received its name from the leather tent
(roots) which Amer there pitched for

ncmon l.

1

 

157

himself, during theaiegsof the Roman
fortress. In the same spot heetsctad
the mosh, that still bears his name,
which in after times stood in the centre
of the city. and is now amidst the
mounds and rubbish of its fallen
houses. Fostat continued to be the
royal residence, as well as the capital
of Egypt, until the time of Ahmed
ebn e' 'l'ooléou, who built the most
and palace at the 55m el Kebab, a. n.
879.

Goher el glad. having been sent
by M6i§s to conquer Egypt. founded
the new city called Musr ei K‘herah
(Cairo), which four years after (in
a. n. 974), became the capital of the
country, and Post“ received the new
appellation of Must el Ateegeh or
“ Old M usr," corrupted by Europeans
into Old Cairo. The ancient name

'of the city, which occupied part of

the site of Old Cairo, was Egyptian
Babylon; end the Roman station,
which lies to the 8. of the mask of
Amer is evidently the fortre- be-
sieged by the Modem invader. The
style of its masonry has the peculiar
character of Roman buildings; which
is readily distinguished by the courses
of red tiles or bricks, and the con-
struction of its arches: and over the
main entrance on the 8. side (which is
now closed and nearly buried in rub-
bish) is a tiiangular pediznent, under
whose left-hand corner may still be
seen the Roman eagle. Above, ap-
pears to have been a slab. probably
beating an inset iption, ion g since fallen
or removed. its solid wells and
strong round towers sufﬁciently tes-
tify its former sttength, and account
for its having defied the attacks of the
Arab invaders for seven months; and
it is doubtless to this that Abuolfeda
alludes, when he says, “in the spot
where Fostat was built stood a gear,
erected in old times. and styled ifs-r
e' Shemma ( ' of the candle ' ). and
the tent (foals!) of Amer was close to
the musk called Jamst Amer.“ This
fortress now contains a village of Chris-
tian inhabitants, and is doubted to

