 

418

evidently the one seen by Strabo, as
it contains inscriptions recording se-
veral of the inundations, from the
reign of Augustus to that of L. Sep-
titmus Severus.

At the ancient landing-place, which
had a ﬂight ofstt-ps between two walls,
near the sycamore tree to the north
of the Nilometer, are two river gods
of Roman workmanship, but now
nearly buried by the alluvial deposit
of the Nile, and much defaced.

Elephantine had a garrison in the
time of the Romans, as well as in the
earlier times of the Persians and
Pharaonio monarchs; and it was
ﬁ'om this island that the Ionians and
Carians, who had accompanied Psa-
maticus, were sent forward into Ethi—
0pia, to endeavour to brin back the
Egyptian troops who had escrted.

The scuth part of the island is
covered with the ruins of old houses,
and fragments of pottery, on many
of which are Greek inscriptions in
the running hand ; and the peasants,
who live there, frequently ﬁnd small
bronxes of rams, coins, and other ob-
jects of antiquity, in removing the
ttitre of the mounds which they use
for agricultural purposes.

Elephantine is now inhabited by
Nubians. But I do not suppose it
was peopled at a very early period by
natives of EthiOpia; nor does the
account given by Herodotus of Cam-
byses sending the Ichthyophagi of
Elephantine to accompany his spies,
imply that they were actually of that
country, as he merely states that they
were acquainted with the Ethiopian
language. Indeed, in another place
he expressly states that the country
inhabited by the Ethiopians com-
menced beyond Elephantine to the
south. It is, however, not impos-
sible that the modern inhabitants
may be partly descended from the
Nubatm, who, according to Proco-
pins, were prevailed upon by Diocle-
tian to settle in Elephantine; that
city and the territory on either bault
being granted them, on condition of

30m 29.—15Lm or 32min.

 

SecLIV.

their protecting the Maﬁa ﬂan the
incursions of the Bls—yes.

Pliny and Procopius agree in
giving the name of Phil: to this, a
well as the sacred island above the
cataract; and the fonner mentions
four of that name, probably Philn,
Biggeh, Sehayl. and El °
But the liietoglyphics do not sup-
port him in this statement, Phil:
alone having the name of Pailak or
Ailak; and this shows that Phil, or
Fil, “ the Elephant,” could notbe the
origin of the word Philc.

Besides its temples. the city of
Elephantine was adorned with queye.
and other public ediﬁces on the same
grand scale as the sacred island of
Phila; and this assertion of Strabo
is fully conﬁrmed by the extent and
style of the buildings, which border
the river to the south of the Nile-
meter. The quay is of Ptolema‘ic or
R oman date, and contains many blocks
taken from more ancient monuments.

Island of Scddyl. — Sehdyl is an
island, at the northern extremity of
the rapids of the ﬁrst cataract. It is
interesting from the number of
hieroglyphic tablets sculptured on
the rocks, many of which are of a
very early period, before and after
the accession of the eighteenth dy-
nasty. It had also a small temple of
Ptolema’ic date, now entirely de-
stroyed, except the substructions;
and it was here that M. Riippell
discovered a very interesting Greek
inscription. The island was under
the special protection of Sate Juno),
Kneph, and Anoinlté, or V

The traveller, whose intention is
merely to visit Phile, without pass-
ing the cataract, will save himself
some time and much trouble by going
as far as this island in his boat, by
which the ride to Phile is consider-
ably shortened; nor will he be pre-
vented ﬁom seeing all that the ex-
cursion from Asouan presents worthy
of noticc,—which is conﬁned to
traces of the old road, the crude-
brick wall that skirted and protected

