 

100

constituting the Frank quarter, were
built on that side of the city. The
privilege of using the old harbour and
that of riding on horseback were ob-
tained by the English for all Euro-
peans, on evacuating Alexandria.

The four principal gates of Alex-
andria were the Canopic on the east,
the Necropolis Gate on the west, and
those of the Sun and Moon at the two
ends of the street that ran from the sea
to the lake. As you looked down the
latter street, the ships in the Great
Harbour were seen on one side, and
those in the Mateotic port on the other;
the two streets intersecting each other
at right angles, as already stated.

No portion of the ancient circuit
now remains, and even the Saracenic
wall has lately been removed to make
way for the increasing size of Alex-
andria. The Saracenic tower, at the
extreme end of the wall towards the
sea, is still left standing, and may be
seen immediately behind the ﬁrst row
of houses to the south of the Frank
square. This is said once to have
been bathed by the sea, and the
buttress projecting from it might seem
to justify this assertion; but it is far
more probable that the low space be-
fore it, formerly a pool of water, and
now the Frank square, was the site of
the ancient docks, and that the wall
turned 05‘ to the right at this spot, in
order to avoid so low and unstable a
foundation. The Saracenic walls en-
closed what may be called the Arab
city, and the modern Alexandria may
be styled the Turkish town. it stands,
as already observed, without the circuit
both of the Greek and Arab city,
partly on the Mole or Heptastadium,
and partly on the site of the docks
mentioned by Strabo; and its houses
may be said to occupy no portion of
ancient Alexandria, except at the ex-
tremity of the ancient mole. Nor
are any cisterns found beneath the
houses of the modern town.

My conjecture that the new square
of the Frank quarter covers the
principal part of the Great Docks, is

some 1 . —- ALEXANDRIA — moans, arc.

 

SecLI.

conﬁrmed by there being no cisterns
below the surface, by the lowness of
its original level (which I remember
to have seen a pool of water in winter,
before the ground was raised to re
ceive the present houses), and by the
fact that the architect, “ Signor Man-
cini, when digging to lay the foun-
dations of the houses, found nothing
below the surface upon the whole line
but a layer of sea-weed, showing the
sea to have been once over it." The
Coptic name of this spot, Mdasheei,
is also remarkable, signifyin a “ pool,”
or “ marshy ground:" an has been
mentioned to me by Mr. Harris in
support of my opinion.

I may also observe that the present
walls, enclosing a portion of the
mounds of the old city, were built in
1811, and that those alone behind the
Frank quarter are of early Arab time.
Other portions, however, may be
based on Saracenic foundations; but
the only ancient part appears to be
the Roman tower to the east of the
obelisks.

l4.—MOSK8 an owner. Botan—
was wrrum rm: Warns. —- There
are some masks, convents, gardens,
and villas, amidst the mounds of the
old city, as well as two or three forts,
thrown up by the French during their
occupation of Egypt. Que of the
convents, or rather monasteries, is
called of St. Mark. It belongs to
the Capts, who pretend to possess the
head and body of St. Mark; though
Leo Africanus afﬁrms that they were
secretly carried away by the Vene-
tians, and taken to their city. The
Greeks also pride themselves in some
relics, said tube of St. Catherine, who
suffered martyrdom at Alexandria.
Another convent belongs to the Latin
church. In the garden of that con-
vent a marble pedestal has lately been
found bearing an inscription with the
name of Julia Domna.

One of the moslts is called “of
1001 columns," according in number
with the fables of the 1001 nights. It
is on the west side, near the gate of

