 

 

U: Egypt. non-re 29. — ntoosn -— season. 421

havingbeendestroyedbythel’er- isastelaofredgmnitgbeari the
sinus at the time of the invasion of name of Amasis, surnamed cIlieitd,
chus, was rebuilt alterthe accession “the son of Neit," or Km
0! the Ptolemies. The arch, inserted at a late period
The hypothral building, on the in the centre of the building, is of
east of the island, isol‘ the timeo! the Christian date; and it is evident that
Ptolemies and Cmssrs; and from the the early Christians oectt both of
elongated style of its proportions, it these islands, whose tem they con-
appears that the anchitect had in» rerted into churches, concealing with
tendedtoeddtoitseﬂ‘ectwhenseen acoatol'clayormortartheohjeetsol'
from the river. Below it is a quay, worship of their pagan predeceaeots.
which extended nearly round the is- ! will not pretend to say that
land, whose principal landing-place Phil: had not the name of Ahaton;
was at the staircase leading to the but from an inscription at Biggeh,
arched gate on the east bank. A mentioning “the godsin Abaton and
short distance behind the gate stands in Pliilw,” there is room to believe it
a mined wall, ornamented with tri- belonged to this island; though it
glyphs and the usual mouldings of has, at least in one sense, been ap-
the Doric order. evidently of Roman plied to Phil: by Plutarch, who says
construction. “ that island is ieoeceesﬂls and unap-
Other detached ruins and traces of proachable . . . . . except when the
buildings are met with amidst the priests go to crown the tomb of
mounds that encumber them; and on Osiris.”
the west side of the temple is a cha- 'i‘he name of Biggeh in the hiero-
pel, in which are some interestin glyphics is Scnmaut or 80cm, over
sculptures relating to the Nile, an which Athor is said topreside; but
other subjects; with a series of ovals - we sometimes ﬁnd the name followed
in the cornice, containing the name of i by the sign of " foreign country." in.
Lucius, Verus, Antoninus, Sebastus, 1 stead of the circle signifying'ﬂand.”

 

Autocrator, Cesar. There are also On the rocks here, a on the road
some Greek, and unknown inscrip- from Asouan to Phil-,arenumeroue
tions, probably Ethiopian. Inscriptions, of the early times of the
Numerous e: rotor are inactibed on I Pharaohs of the sixteenth, seventeenth,
the walls of the propylon and other eighteenth, and nineteenth dynasties:
parts of the great temple, mostly of , several of which mention the holy oh-
the time of the Cesars, withafew of i ject of their writers, who came to
a Ptolema'ic epocthom one of which ! adore the gods of this district, while
last we learn that Auletes, or Neus others merely presentthe names ofthe ,
Dionysus, was called god Pbilopator monarchs themselves. Boone relate
and Philadelphus, titles that usually : to the granite blochscutand removed
follow his name in hieroglyphica | in their reigns, and others to the ric-
lsland of Ripped. — in the island tories gained by them over the Ethio-
of Biggrh isa small temple, dedicated pians, the people of Cosh. Similar
to Athor. apparently commenced by . tablets are of greatuse in the atodyol'
Eucrgetes I. and completed by Pto— - the chronology of that period; not
lemy the elder, son of Auletes, by are those of the later Pharaohs, ofthe
Augustus. and by other of the Ccsars; twentyoalsth and twenty-eighth dy-
but from the presence of a red granite - nasties, without their share of inter-
stetue behind it, there is reason to he- est.
liere that an older ediﬁce had pre- On the eastern shore, opposite
siously existed here, of the time of a Philw, are some mounds. and the re-
Pharaoh, either Thothmes ill. or mains o! a stela and monolith of
Amunopb ll. Among the mounds . granite; thel'ormerbearingtheneme

