 

86

overbalanced by the silence of two
annalists of a more early date, both
Christians, both natives of Egypt, and
the most ancient of whom, the patri-
arch Eutychius, has amply described
the conquest of Alexandria.” But
the admission of some Arab writers,
cited by the learned Do Buy in his
notes on Abdal-Latif, seems to con-
ﬁrm the truth of Omar’s vandalism:
the authorities of Makriai and Abdal-
Latif are of considerable weight, not-
withstanding the silence even of co.
temporary Christian annalists; and
while we regret the destruction of
this library, we may wish, with M.
Rey Dussueil, that the capture of
Alexandria had not happened half or
a whole century later; when, instead
of destroyers, the Arabs assumed the
character of preservers of ancient
literature.

The Museum was a noble institu-
tion, which tended greatly to the re-
nown of Alexandria; and from which
issued those men of learning, who
have so many claims on the gratitude
and admiration of posterity. It was
to this school of philosophy that the
once renowned college of Heliopolis
transferred its reputation; and that
venerable city, which had been the
resort of the sages of Ancient Greece,
ceded to Alexandria the honour of
being the seat of learning, and the
repository of the “ wisdom of the
Egyptians.” Science, literature, and
every branch of philosophy continued
to ﬂourish there, for many a genera-
tion; foreigners repaired thither, to
study and proﬁt by “the instruction
of every kind, for which its schools
were established;” and the names of
Euclid, Ctesibius, the two Herons,
Clemens, Origen, Athanasius, Am-

monius, Theon, and his daughter'

Hypasia, shed a brilliant lustre over
the capital of the Ptoletnies.

But however respectable the learn-
ing and scientiﬁc scquirements of the
philosophers of Alexandria, during
the early periods of its history, the
same credit does not attach itself to

more 1. —- ALEXANDRIA — 03.3mm.

 

Sect. I.

the speculations of later times; and
philosophy became at one time en-
cumbered with a mass of wild fancy,
as senseless as it was injurious to the
world. Nor was Alexandria less
noted, after the introduction of Chris-
tianity, for speculative doctrines and
religious controversy; and the con-
duct of some of the early Christian
primates of that city reﬂects no ho-
nour on the community, of which
they were the most conspicuous,
though not the most worthy, members.
Still, that seat of learning retained
some remnant of its pristine excel-
lence, even amidst the tumults pro-
duced by bigotry and sedition; and
the schools of astronomy, geometry,
physic, and various branches of sci-
ence maintained their reputation till
the period of the Arab conquest.

The Museum stood, as already
stated, in the quarter of the Bruchion.
According to Strabo, it was a very
large building, attached to the palace,
surrounded by an exterior peristyle,
or conidor, for walking; and it is
probable that the philosophers fre-
quently taught beneath this covered
space, as in the stoa of Athens, or in
the grove of Academus. It is difﬁ-
cult now to point out its exact site:
it was probably near the modern
branch of the canal, that runs past
the Rosetta Gate to the sea; the
Bruchion comprising the whole space
on every side of it, as far at least as
the Cmsarium.

The Cesar-ism, or temple of Cesar,
is marked by the two obelisks (called
Cleopatra‘s Needles,) which Pliny
tells us “ stood on the port at the
temple of Cesar." Near this spot
are what is called the Roman tower,
and to the eastward the vestiges of
buildings, which still hear the name
of the palace; and Strabo says, the
palace of the kings was situated on
the point called Lochias, on the left
of the great harbour, which is the
same as the headland behind the
modern Pbarillon. Other palaces,
called the inner, were on the left, en-

