 

 

 

 

U. Egypt.

rock. has the light form of a small
segment of a circle; and from the
surface of the inner wall project the
cornice and mouldings of an elegant
doorway.

This opens on the ﬁrst hall, 53 feet
by 37. once supported by a double
line of four pillars, dividing the nave
(if I may so call it) from the aisles,
with half pillars as usual attached to
the end walls. Another ornamented
doorway leads to the second hall, 89
feet square, with two pillars in each
row, disposed as in the former. Pass-
ing through another door, you arrive
at a small chamber, 9| feet by 19, at
whose end wall is a niche, formed of
a series of jambs, receding succes.
sively to its centre. Here terminates
the ﬁrst line ofdircction. A square
room lies on the left (entering), and
on the right another succession of
passages, or narrow apartments. leads
to two ﬂights of steps, immediately
before which is another door on the
right. Beyond these is another pas-
sage, and a room containing a pit 45
feet deep, which opens at about one-
third of its depth on a lateral chamber.

A third line of direction, at right
angles with the former, turns to the
right, and terminates in a room, at
whose upper end is a squared pedestal.

Returning through this range of
passages. and rte-ascending the two
staircases, the door above alluded to
presents itself on the left hand. You
shortly arrive at a pit (opening on
another set of rooms. beneath the
level of the upper ground plan), and
after passing it. a large square, sur-
rounded by long passages, arrests the
attention ofthe curious visiter. At each
angle is the ﬁgure of one of the eight
following goddesses - — Neith, sue,
lsia, Nephthys, Netpe. Justice, Selk,
and Athor, who, standing with out-
spread arms. preside over and protect
the sacred enclosure, to which they
front and are attached.

Eleten niches. in six of which are
small ﬁgures of diﬂ'erent deities.
occur at intervals on the side walls,

mm 0? TH! LEASE".

 

877

and the summit is crowned by a
f riese of hieroglyphics. Three cham-
bers lie behind this square,and the
passage which round it descends
on that side,a reﬁning by anesesad-
iag talus on the next, the level of the
front. A short distance further ter-
minates this part of the tomb; but the
above-mentioned pit communicates
with a subterranean passage opening
on a vaulted chamber. from whose
upper extremity another pit leads,
demands, to a second, and, ulti-
mately, through the ceiling of the
last. spa-eras, to a third apartment,
coming immediately below the centre
ofthe square above noticed. it has
one central niche, and seven on either
side, the whole loaded with hierogly.
phical sculptures, which cover the
walls in every part of this extensive
tomb.

But to give an idea of its length,
and consequently of the profusion of
its ornamental details, l shall brieﬁy
state the total extent of each series of
the passages. both in the upperand
under part of the excavation. From
the entrance of the outer area to the
ﬁrst deviation from the original right
line is 390 feet. The total of the
neat range of passages tothe chamber
of the great pit is 177 feet. The
third passage, at right angles, to this
last, is 60 feet ; that passing over the
second pit is I95 ; and adding to these
three of the sidesof the isolated square,
the total is 869 feet, independent of
the lateral chambers.

The area of the actual excavation is
99,917 square feet, and with the
chambers of the pits, 93.809; thong
from the nature of its plan,
ground it occupies is nearly one acre
and a quarter; an immoderste space
for the sepulchre of one individual,
even allowtn that themembvrs of his
family shared a portion of its extent.

He was a distinguished functionary
of the priestly order, and
apparently unusual sﬁluence and
consequence. since the granite gate-

kway,.added byhisordertothestnall

.. a — F_ — - .
A-— _—_—.——w

