 

428

westsida: but that it belongedtoa
larger ediﬁce is highly probable, as
some substructions may be traced a
little distance to the south. A short
walk from this is a sandstone quarry,
in which are one enchorial, and up-
wardsof50 Greekaootos. I'hey are
mostly of the time of Antoninus Pius,
M. Aurelius, and Severus, in honour
of Isis, to whom the neighbouring
temple was probably dedicated.
Some refer to the works in the quarry,
and one of them mentions the num-
ber of stones cut by the writer for the
great temple of the same goddess at
Philc. In the centre is a square
niche, which may once have contained
a statue of the goddess; and on either
side are busts in high relief, placed
within recesses, and evidently. from
their style, of Roman workmanship.
The road by which the stones were
taken from the quarry is still dis-
cerniblc.

At the village are the remains of a
large enclosure of stone, on whose
north side is a pylon, having a few
heiroglyphics, and the ﬁgure of a god-
dess, probably his, with a head-dress
surmounted by the horns and globe.

At Wadce Tdfa ( Tupi-is) are about
ﬁfteen more of these stone enclosures,
but on a smaller scale than that of
Gertassee, being about twentydwo
paces by eighteen. The position of
the stones is singular, each row pre-
senting a crescent, or concave surface,
to the one above it, the stones at the
centre being lower than at the angles.
In one I observed several rooms
communicating with each other by
doorways; but the enclosures them-
selves are quite unconnected, and
some at a considerable distance from
the rest. They are probably of
Roman date, but it is difﬁcult to as-
certain the use for which they were
intended. There are also the remains
of 2 temples at Taphis, the southern-
most of which has been converted into
a church by the early Christians.

Christianity was the religion of
Ethiopia till a late period, and began

 

some 30. — wanna min — nurseries. Sect. V.

probably to decline after the invasion
of Sultan Selim, a. n. 1517. In
Wanaleb’s time, 1673, the churchea
were still entire, though closed for
wantof pastors. Twoofthecolurnitl:
oftheporticoat Taphisare st'
standing, and on the adjoining wall
are some Greek inscriptions and the
ﬁgures of saints. Behind the portico
is a chamber, which may have been
the adytum. The other is an isolated
building, consisting of one chamber,
with a niche in the back wall. The
principal entrance was between the
two columns on the south side; it
had also two other doors, one on the
south, and the other on the east face.

In front of the ternplc, I understand
that Mr. Hay discovered a sort of

nay, with'a ﬂight of steps leading

own to the river, between two side
walls, about the centre of it.

The plain of Taphis is strewed
with the fragments of cornices and
mouldings, mostly of a late epoch;
nor do we meet with any traces of
building that can boast a greater anti—
quity than the" time of the Caesars,
and much of that which exists is no
doubt posterior to the age of Pliny.

The scenery here reminds us of the
vicinity of Philte; the rocks mostly
granite, with some sandstone.

Many of the inhabitants of Tafa
employ their time in chasing the
gazelle, and lead a life which tends
but little to their civilisation; and
whether from a spirit of independence,
or from a propensity common to
savages, they are constantly engaged
in disputes, that seldom terminate
without bloodshed.

Kalt‘ibshce. -- Kaldbshee, Tobin's,
presents the ruins of the largest
temple in Nubia. It appears to have
been built in the reign of Augustus;
and though other Caters, particularly
Caligula, Trajan. and Severus, made
considerable additions to the sculp-
tures, it was left unﬁnished The
stones employed in its construction
had belonged to an older ediﬁce, to
which it succeeded; and it is highly

