 

160

characters.” This treasure was not
one to satisfy the cupidity of the
Memlook Bey, and it was left to the
sbekh of the meals, by whom it was
sold to different individuals.

Tradition has not been idle here;
and the credulous believe that an an-
cient prophecy foretells the downfall
of Moslem power, whenever this
moslt shall fall to decay; and two
columns placed 10 inches apart, near
the southernmost door, are said to
discover the faith of him who tries
to pass between them, no one but a
true believer in the Koran and the
Prophet being supposed to succeed
in the attempt. When all but Mos-
lems were excluded from the mosks,
the truth of this was of course never
celled in question; and now that the
profane are admitted, the desecration
of the building is readily believed to
cause the failure of the charm.

5. measures arm rssaun or sons.

In the island of Rods, opposite Old
Cairo, is the Melgkeeas or Nilometer.
It consists of a square well or cham-
ber, in the centre of which is a gradu-
ated pillar, for the purpose of ascer-
taining the daily rise of the Nile.
This is proclaimed every morning in
the streets of the capital, during‘ the
inundation, by four criers, to eac r of
whom a particular portion of the city
is assigned.

The Melilgeetis was formerly sur-
mounted by a dome, which is said to
have borne a Colic inscription, and a
date answering to 848 of our era. Its
erection is attributed to the Caliph
Maméon, who reigned from 813 to
888; but if the above date be correct,
it is probable that the dome was not
added until the time of El Mota-
wuk’kel-al-Allah, his third succes-
sor, who ruled from 847 to 861. In
the year of the Hegira 245 (a. n.
880) this Motawuk'ltel, tenth caliph
of the Abbaside dynasty, is said to
have made a new Nilometer in the

Isle of Roda, which some suppose to
be the one used at the present day;

canto. —nxcnnsron l.

 

SectlI.

and this account seems to be con-
ﬁrmed by the data above mentioned.
It afterwards underwent some repairs
in the time of Mostunser Billib, the
ﬁfth of the Fatemite princes of Egypt,
a. n. 1092. But the ﬁr st who built
a Nilometer at. Roda was Soolayman,
seventh caliph of the Ommiade
dynasty, who reigned from a. n. 714
to 717; and this was afterwardsre-
placed by the more perfect worls of
his successors.

Round the upper part of the cham-
ber isa Cuﬁc inscription, ofarr ancient
character, but without a date; in the
vain hope of ascertaining which I re-
moved the upper part of the staircase
in 1839. It contains passages from
the Koran, relating to the “ water
sent by God from heaven," which
show the received opinion of the causes
of the inrrndation, ﬁrst alluded to by
Homer in the expression Aria-error
«overture applied to the Nile, and
occasionally discarded and re-admitted
by succeeding authors till a very late
period. The inscription, however, is
not without its interest for architec-
tural inquir y, though devoid of a date ;
since the style of the Cuﬁc is evidently
of an early period, corresponding to
that used at the time of its reputed
erection, the middle of the 9th cen-
tury ; and as the arches are all pointed,
we have here another proof, of the
early use of that form of arch in Sara-
cenic buildings.

The dome has long since ceased to
exist, having been thrown down by
accident; and its fallen blocks still
encumber the chamber, or well, at the
base of the graduated columm It is
this irregular mass that prevents our
ascertaining the exact height of the
column ; and besides at the low Nile,
when the Nilometer is said to be
cleared out, a great quantity of the
alluvial deposit is always left at its
base, to the depth, as is reported, of
about live feet.

Much difﬁculty has arisen from the
various accounts given of the rise of
the inundation. In the time of Moeris,

