 

39»!-

M increased hythe new shekh‘
bring cut down a sycamore tree

“entailed' upon the college, and

therefore revered as sacred); and the

ducted man was aim-lonely killed

by acannon hall in Syria. whither he

had accompanied his patron. His

kosher succeeded him as principal of
the college.

Like the other derwlshes, they have
a particular day set apart for their zitr,
which is performed once a week. The
day varies according to the sect;
that of the Kudré'éh is Thursday,
and the site is celebrated in the dome
or mosk; when numerous furs are
sprud on the ground, and arms,
hnners, drums. and other things ltcpt
there, are used in the ceremony.

They here show the shoe of the
founder of the building, which is of
immense rise. This precious relic
was formerly placed over the door of
the dome, and exposed to the view of
all who entered; but it is now kept
in a closet, and only produced when
asked for. A friend of mine, who had
been there many years ago. observed,
that the shoe was much smaller than
the one he had before seen; and it is
probable, as he suggested, that the der-
wiahes, perceiving the more enlarged
ideas of the present age, had thought
it prudent to litnit their pretensions in
the marvellous, by decreasing its size
in a suitable ratio to the decrease of
credulity. Its position, too, in a closet
may have the double effect of season-
ing it with the mouldy appearance of
age, and of concealing it from those
who have not the curiosity to ask to
III it. I’oeoclte, who visited the place
in 1737, speaks of the curious relics
preserved by these strange beings.

The largest convent of rlt-rwishr's is
at Cairo, in the street called liab-
l-llﬂﬂ’il. near the Derh el Alrnrar, lrurlt

COLLEGE OF DEBWIBHEB.

 

in ”74, nrrder the reign of Sultan

Selim, by Musra; ha agha, his redid; i

views of n hich are given in M. Costs-'s
work.

The l_(_asr Dubarra was built by
Mohammed Ilry Dt-t'trrtlsr, at the

165

same time as the palace in the Ushe-
l}€e’h, on his return from Kordof‘n.
It contains two good rooms, with a
spacious colonna e opening upon a
garden, which gives it a pretty and
truly Oriental appearance. In the
garden are two large sycamore ﬂg- trees
overshadowing a fountain, with benches
in an Open kiosk that encloses it, which,
in summer, is a delightful evening re-
treat. It has a very Eastern character,
heightened by a happy contrivance,
through which an artiﬁcial shower is
made to fall from above on all sides
of the kiosk, pipes being carried up
the trees and concealed among the
branches; but it is to he regretted,
that those who executed this not in-
clegant design, have not done justice
to the idea that suggested it. In the
Rear Dubnrra, as in many other
things, the Defterdar certainly showed
considerable taste; and had his dis-
position lreen equal to his talents, he
might have lived beloved, and have
died regretted by all classes.

The l’asho has now fitted up this
palace for his hareem, and has for-
nished the rooms, partly in the
Turkish, atrd partly in the European
style, in the hopes of combining what
is most suitable in those two opposite
tastes. Diwans, walls painted by Greeks
in the manner of Constantinople,
fountains, and niches, are united with
chairs, tables. sofas, rnirrors, curtains,
French windows, and chandeliers;
and Ottomans are there, with this
supposed Turkish name, showing
how strangely Europeans fancy they
adopt a T nrltish piece of furniture,
which. unknown in the East, is
obliged to retain its European name
in rooms, whence it is supposed to
have derived its origin. The arrange.
urent of colours in the furniture is by
no means happy, and the frightful
taste of Greek painting ill accords
with European hangings. The ceil-
ings are very inferior to those usually
met with in Turkish palaces; and
there is an inconsistent mixture of

wood and marble. The windows

