 

 

 

U.Egypt.

stone, and consists of a set of upper 1
and underground chambers, whose
walls are covered with sculptures.
They principally represent judgment
scenes and other funeral subjects.
At the centre of the inner wall of the
upper chamber is a niche, within
which stands Osiris, with a hawlt’s
head and the title of Sokari; and on
either side is the goddess Isis protect-
tn him with outspread wings, and
hoiding in each hand the feather of
Truth. At one side of this niche is
a judgment scene, in which Osiris,
seated on his throne (with the four
nii of Amenti standing on a lotus
ﬁrmer before him, and the female
Cerberus at the door), listens to the
account of the actions of the deceased
recorded by Thoth, who as usual re-
ports to the judge the result of his
trial. Anubis and Horus are also
present, with the scales of Truth.
0n the other side of the niche, Horus
and Anubis introduce the individual
to Osiris, T both being also present.

Many other subjects occur in the
same chamber, among which are se-
veral inferior deities, whose offices re-
iateto Amenti, or “the lower region ; "
and in an underground room is a
curious representation of a tomb,
having its folding-doors fastened by
two bolts. The tree that overshadows
it appears to be the sacred tamarish
of Utilis.

At Lt'aar e‘ Syéd, or “ the sports-
man‘s mansion," on the opposite bank,
are the mounds of the ancient Chino-
bosciou, in Coptic. Sinesét. The only
remains of masonry consist of a dila-
pidated quay, amidst whose ruins is a
stone bearing a Greek inscription,
apparently of the time of Antoninus
Pius; from which we learn that the
individual, by wlvose order it was
sculptured, had executed some work
"at his own expense;" perhaps the
quay itself, to which there is every
appearance of its having once he-
longed. Another bloch has part of
the headdress and hieroglyphic: of
the goddem Isis.

more 24. — How — yes 3’ min.

 

827

Cbénoboscion was famous for its
geese, which were fed there in great
numbers; and it was from this eir.
cumstanee that it borrowed a name
which was probably a translation of
the original Egyptian.

About a mile beyond the eastern
mouthofthecanal of geare' 8y“
are some interesting catacombs of a
very ancient date, near the high road.
Within them the agricultural and
other scenes common to the tombs of
Egypt may still be traced on the
walls, and some indeed in a very
good state of preservation. But they
are particularly remarkable for their
antiquity. which may vie with that of
any other catacomb or monument in
EUPQ if we except the pyramids
and the tombs in their vicinit . The
names, three of which are p in
chronological order, are not preceded
by royal titles, but simply by the
word “priest." l have, however,
found instances of the same elsewhere
with the preﬁx “king."

The isle of Taber-ea was on the
west bank, between Diospolis Parva
(How) and Tentytia. in Coptic it
was called Tahentteci, or 'i‘ahndéae,
the last part of which recalls the
Greek word mos, “ island." Cham-
pollion supposes the name to signify
“abounding in palm trees," or “ the
place of ﬂocks;" and the termina-
tion (si to refer to the goddess lsis.
in Arabic he says it is called Geare-
ret el Gharh, “the isle of the West.”
it was here that, about a. n. 356.
St. Pacht'nn (Pachomius) built a
monastery. occupying “the vacant
island of Tabenne," as Gibbon says,
with “ MW of his brethren.”

For, inland, on the east hank,
marks the site of Bopos, in Coptic
Phboou; and the ruins of Tentyris
lie about halfa mile from the river
on the other side, to the north of the
modern village of Braden. The
only thing for which it is now famous
is a large breed of fowls, which, ea
they diﬂ‘er so much from others on
the Nile, may claim descent tl'om

