 

22 cmnonooxcn. new. Sect. I.

 

a n. i Events.

 

192 Visit of Adrian to Egypt; and again, a.n. 180.

997 Takin of Alexandria by Diocletian.

325 Council of Nicua in rei of Constantine. Athenasius and Arius.

379 Edict of Theodosius. truction of the Temple of Sarapis.

629 Coat-st of Egypt by Amer (miscalled Amrou). (See Table of
iphs.)

1517 Conquest of Egypt by the Turks under Sultan Selim.

1763 Rebellion of Ali Bey.

1798 Invasion of Egypt by the French.

1801 Expelled by the En lish.

1806 Mohammed Ali ma e Pasha of Egypt. (See above, p. 12.)

 

 

 

In the era of Menes l have followed Josephus; and by allowing 17 years
for each reign from Apappus to Menes, which requires a sum of 3528. his era
would be about the time I have given, or a. c. 9824 ; though the number of the
reigns intervening between those two kings is by no means certain. In the
Xth Dynasty I have been guided by the Table of Kings at Thebes, which
gives one Diospolitan between Menes and the XVlIlth Dynasty.

The contemwrary reigns of Shishalt and Solomon are the earliest ﬁxed epoch
for the construction of a chronologial table; but reckoning back the number
of years of each king's reign, either according to Manetho, the dates on the
monuments, or the average length of their ordinary duration, we may arrive
at a fair approximation; and the epoch alluded to on the ceiling of the Mem-
nonium, at Thebes, in the reign of Remeses IL, seems greatly to conﬁrm
my opinion respecting the accession of that Prince. And, allowing for the
reigns of the intervening monarchs his predecessors, the Exodus of the
Israelites recs with Manetho’s departure of the Pastors in the reign of
Thothmes II.

Those who wish to compare the lists of kings given by Manetho and
Eratosthenes, will ﬁnd them in the History of Egypt given in my “ Manners,
and Customs of the Ancient Egyptians," and in that very useful work,
“ Ancient Fragments," published by Mr. Cory.

Of the Shepherd Kings nothing certain has yet been discovered; nor is it
always possible to make the names given by Manetho and Eratosthenes accord
with those on the monuments.

The government of Egypt appears ﬁrst to have been, as with the Jews, a
hierarchy, which was successively composed of the priests of one or other of
the principle deities; but its duration is uncertain. We then come to the
Kings, the ﬁrst of whom, by universal consent, was Menes ; and with him I
commence my chronological series.

The 8 ovals contain their prenomen and phonetic name, and the third that
of the Queen, whenever it has been found. Many other names of kings oc-
cur on the monuments; but as their date and relative Position are uncertain,
I have not been able to place them in this list.

 

