 

174

length, lOorgyes in breadth, and 8 in ‘
height, in the highest part, and is

constructed of polished stones sculp-

tured with the ﬁgures of animals.

These 10 years were occupied exclu-

sively in the causeway, independently

of the time spent in levelling the hill

on which the pyramids stand, and in

making the subterranean chambers

intended for his tomb, in an island

formed by the waters of the Nile

which be conducted thither by a

canal. The building of the pyramid

itself occupied 20 years. It is square,

each face measuring 8 plethra in

length, and the same in height. The

greater part is of polished stones, most

carefully put together, no one of
which is less than 30 feet ion .

“ This pyramid was built in steps,

and as the work proceeded, the stones
were raised from the ground by means
of machines made of short pieces of
wood. When a block had been
brought to the ﬁrst tier, it was placed
in a machine there, and so on from
tier to tier by a succession of similar
machines, there being as many ma-
chines as tiers of stone; or perhaps
one served for the purpose, being
moved from tier to tier as each stone
was taken up. I mention this, be-
cause I have heard both stated. When
completed in this manner, they pro-
ceeded to make out (the form of ) the
pyramid, beginning from the top, and
thence downwards to the lowest tier.
‘ On the exterior was engraved in
Egyptian characters the sum expend-
ed in supplying the workmen with
fdp’tanu, onions, and garlic; and he
who interpreted the inscription told
me, as I remember well, that it
amounted to 1600 talents (900,0001.
stedingl." “ If that be true, how
much must have been spent on the
iron tools, the food, and clothing of
the workmen, employing as they did,
all the time above mentioned without
counting that occupied in cutting and
transporting the stones, and making
the snbterraneous chambers, which
must have been considerable. ”

came. — nxcoasron 4.

 

Scotti.

The historian then mentions a ti-
diculous story about the daughter of
the king, to whom he attributes the
construction of the central pyramid
of the three, standing to the E. of that
of Cheops, each side of which was 1}
plethrum in length.

“ Cheops,” he continues, “ having
reigned 50 years, died, and was suc-
ceeded by his brother Cephren, who
followed the example of his prede-
cessor. Among other monuments be
also built a pyramid, but much less
in sise than that of Cheaps. I mea-
sured them both. It has neither un-
derground chambers, nor any canal
ﬂowing into it from the Nile, like
the other, where the tomb of its foun-
der is placed in an island, surrounded
by water. The lowest tier of this
pyramid is of Ethiopian stone of va-
rious colours (granite). It is 40 feet
smaller than its neighbour. Both are
built on the same bill, which is about
100 feet high. The same priestsin-
formed me that Cephren reigned 56
years, so that the Egyptians were
overwhelmed for 106 years with
every kind of oppression, and the
temples continued to be closed dur-
ing the whole time. Indeed they
have such an aversion for the me-
mory of these two princes, that they
will not even mention their names,
and for this reason they call the pyra-
mids aﬂer the shepherd Philitis, who
at the time of their erection used to
feed his docks near this spot."

“ After Cephren, Mycerinus, the
son of Cheops, according to the state-
ment of the priests, ascended the
throne. He also built a pyramid,
much less than his father‘s, being 20
feet smaller. It is square: each of
its sides is 3 plethra long; and it is
made half way up of Ethiopian
(granite) stone. Disapproving of
the conduct of his father, he ordered
the temples to be opened, and
mitted the people, who had been op-
pressed by a long series of cruelties,
to return to their work, and their
religious duties; and administering

