 

mono-non. xix

Malta, where the quarantine is less irksomo than in most places.
The full quarantine with a clean bill of health is 24 days, but the
voyage reduces this number to 19, and it will probably soon be
less than at present; but when the plague is at Alexandria it is
increased to 22 and upwards.

Shortly after the steamer is anchored in the quarantine harbour,
an oﬁcer comes alongside to inquire about the number of the pas-
sengers, in order to prepare for their accommodation in the lasaretto,
and ﬁx upon the part they are to occupy. They then go ashore to
choose their rooms, leaving their baggage, properly packed up, to
follow after them. The traveller must make up his mind to be de-
tained' some time before each person is satisﬁed, and he will be
fortunate if the passengers arefew. When numerous, there is often
a scramble for rooms, and two persons are put into the same bed-
room. A sitting-room is not given except as a favour, or when
there are few passengers; but it is not refused to a party of ﬁve
or six persons who intend to dine together. If without a servant,
the first thing after securing rooms is to take one, who may be en-
gaged beforehand by writing toa friend at Malta, or may be found
at the door of the lazaretto ; where many come to offer their ser-
vices, with letters of recommendation from former masters, which
may be read but not touched. When engaged, they come into
quarantine and perform the same number of days as their master.
They are paid is. 8d. a day wages, and 7d. a day for living. Two
or three persons may employ one servant between them. The ne-
cessity of a servant is very evident, when it is remembered that no
guardian is allowed to render the stranger any services beyond those
demanded by lazaretto duties, and there is no one to bring him a
drop of water. Nor can the porters who carry his luggage from the
boat on hand-trucks touch any thing, as they are in prah’que, and
all must be put on and taken off by the person himself, or his ser-
vant. This is sumciently explained in the quarantine regulations,
of which the following is a copy : —

General Regulations to be observed by all 'Persons performing
Quarantine in tile Lazarello of .Halla.

i. All passengers on landing are to give their names to the cap-
tain of the lasaretto, which are to be entered in the registry of
the odlce.

2. The captain of the lasaretto will assign apartments for passen-
gers, and each passenger will be provided with two chairs, a table,
and a wooden bedstead, for which no charges are made; but any

