 

154

the boys to their answers, on the occa-
sion above mentioned at Mr. Lewis's,
this question was inadvertently asked,
“ Does Lor‘d Anglesey step out
equally with both legs?” which, had
the boy been sulﬁciently quick, would
have led to a description that might
have been cited in favour of the power
of the magician. It is also very evi-
dent that the boy describing an Euro-
pean with trowsers, boots. and stock-
ings, was not telling what he saw, but
what he was thinking of. and putting
together as the description of a Frank
dress; for he could not, of course, see
the stockings, concealed, as they would
be, by trowsers and boots.

I am decidedly of opinion that the
whole of the ﬁrst part is done solely
by leadin questions, and that when-
ever the escriptions succeed in any
point, the success is owing to accident,
or to unintentional prompting in the
mode of questioning the boys. That
the boys are frequently sent beforehand
by the magician to wait near the house
has also been discovered ; but in cases
where European and other boys, who
have never seen him, are brought, the
same leading questions will answer,
if the boys can be induced by their
imagination to fancy they see any
thing. indeed, this imagination has
been sometimes so worked upon as to
alarm them for many days and weeks
afterwards, and we have no need of
Egyptian magicians to induce credu-
lity, or to work upon the fears of
children. With regard to those who
have learnt of the magician, if they
really believe that with such questions
they have any other power over the
boy, independent of his imagination,
or the wish to please the party, I
leave them to esplain it according
to their own version. I must how-
ever observe that the esplanation
lately oﬂ'ered. that Osman Efferrdi
was in collusion with the magician, is
neither fair on him, nor satisfactory,
as he was not present when those
cases occurred, which were made so
much of in Europe; while for my

CAIRO. -— INSTITUTIONS.

 

Sect. II.

own part I see no dimculty in ac-
counting for it, in the manner above
mentioned.

cc. INITITUTIONB 0’ THI IASHA.

It is not my intention to enter into
a detailed account of all the institu-
tions of the Pasha, as manufactories,
arsenals, schools of medicine, geome-
try, arrd modern languages, military
and naval establishments, or of the
formation of his disciplined army and
his ﬂeet. But I cannot pass them
over altogether without notice; and I
recommend those who are interested
in the subject to visit the Kroomlish
manufactory, near the Frank quarter;
the arsenal at the citadel ; the schools
of Boolalt, the Uzlrelté'éh, and Moble-
dee‘n near Saydeh Zayneb 3 the
printing oﬁice, observatory, docltyard,
foundries, and other establishments at
Boolslt : the hospital of Ijasr el Ainee,
and the military schools.

The most praiseworthy establish-
ments set on foot by the Pasha are the
hospitals and schools; and the latter
claim greater credit from the diﬂi-
culties with which he had to contend,
owing to the prejudices of the priests
or ulemas, and the fears of parents.
Nor can he be accused of interested
or ambitions views, in the education
of the children of persons too poor, or
too ignorant, to take any steps for that
purpose. Numerous difﬁculties pre-
vented these institutions from being
established as quickly as might have
been done in any other country. The
schools of surgery met with additional
opposition from the horror of surgical
Operations, the examination of a body
after death, and a thousand other ob-
jections, which readily oﬂ‘ered them-
selves to the minds of a people. preju.
diced by religion and habit against the
customs of the Franks, under whose
guidance the government required
their children to be placed. Nor was
this feeling conﬁned to the schools of
surgery and medicine; the people
were satisﬁed with the instruction
given by their Feﬁees, —those Mos-

