 

 

U. Egypt. runs or ran mm. 855

this inscription, of which I have given the foreigners, both men and women.”
merely a general outline. 0n the corresponding propylon is
Passing through the pylon, you a large tablet, beginning with the
enter a large hypcthral court, about “eighth year of his beloved Majesty"
110 feet by 135, having as 'oae side Remeses 111., relating to his eon-
a row of seven Osiride pillars, and on quests in the North. The doorway,
the other eight circular columns, or pylon, between these towers, is d
with bell-formed capitals. generally, red granite, the hieroglyphics on
though erroneously, supposed to re- whose jambs are cut to the depth of
present the full-blown lotus. two or three inches. Those on the
Columns of this form are usually outer face contain offerings to dill!-
met with in the great halls of these rent deities, among which we ﬁnd a
temples, and are undoubtedly the representation of the gateway itself;
most elegant of the Egyptian orders. and at the base of the jambs are four
The plant from which their capital is lines, stating that “ Remeses made
borrowed is.the papyrus, which is fre- this work for his father Amunre,
quently seen in the sculptures of the (and)erected for him (this) ﬁne gate-
tombs. way of good blocks of granite stone,
The singular effect of the shove- the door itself of wood strengthened
mentioned strange symmetrophobia with plates of precious metals; gra-
cannot now be well seen, owing to cious is his name (Remem)." he.
the mounds and crude-brick walls, The summit of this pylon is
which encumber and nearly conceal crowned by a, row of sitting cyno-
these two corridors; but it can cephali (or apes), the emblems of
never be considered a proof of good Thoth.
taste, though the E yptisns are some- The nest area is far more splendid,
times right in avoi ing the monotony and may be looked upon as one of
of formal repetition. 0n the north the ﬁnest which adorn the various
face of the front towers is a long tab- temples of Egypt. Its dimension
let of hieroglyphics, beginning with are about I23 feet by 133. and its
theeleventh year of llemeses ill., I height from the pavement to the
the founder of this temple. on one cornice. 39 feet 4. it is surrounded
side; and on the other, besides simi- l by an interior peristyle, whose east
lar tablets, is the discomftture of an ' and west sides are supported by ﬁve
Asiatic enemy, whose infantry, armed massive columns, the south by a row
with long straight swords, ﬂy before of eight Osiride pillars, and the north
the victorious monarch. The name by a similar number, behind which is
of the Mashaosha occurs in the hie. : an elegantcorridorofcircularcolumns,
roglyphics, though they are of the I whose eﬂ'ectisunequalled byanyother
Ilcbo nation, whom I shall have oc- , in Thebes. Nor do the colours,
casion to mention hereafter. 3 many of which are still preserved,
On the western pyramidal tower, ‘ tend a little to add to the beauty
at the inner end of the ﬁrst court, . ofits columns, of whose massite style
Remeses lll. leads the prisoners he I some idea may be formed, from their
has taken of the Tochari to Amunre. ' circumference of nearly 93 feet. to a
who presents the falchion of mm height ot'94. or about 3 diameters.
geance, which the king holds forth In contemplating the grandeur of
his hand to receive, saying, " Go, ' this court, one cannot but be struck
my cherished and chosen; make war I with the paltry appearance of the
on (or vanquish for yourself) . . . . Christian colonnade that eneumben
whom you smite with your sword the centre; or fail to regretthede-
and trample upon -," and in the third molition of the interior of the temple,
line, he bids him “slay the chiefs ofl whose architravee were levelled to

 

