 

INTRODUCTION. mii

log to the horse and carriage, is expected to wash the ﬂoor of your
house—an instance of the mulfifarious occupations of servants in
this part of the world.

Sights at Malta.-There are few objects worthy of a visit at
Malta. The principal in the town of Valetta are the palace, the
government library, the cathedral church of St. John, the fortiﬁca-
tions, the view from the two Baraccas, and the palaces of the
knights, called Auberges, particularly those of Castillo and Pro-
vence.

In the palace are the armoury, a few good pictures, and some
curious tapestry. Many of the apartments are good, and not less
so the ball-room.

The armoury is well arranged, but the specimens of amour are
not so curious, nor so varied, as might beexpected in the city of the
knights. The complete suit of Vignacourt is very elegant and
simple. It is the same he wore when painted by Caravaggio in a
picture in the dining-ream, a copy of which is placed above it.
There is a lalge suit near the other end of the room, that appears,
from its immense weight, 110! to have been worn: and not far from
this is a very primitive ﬁeld-piece, made of copper bouud round
with ropes, over which a composition of lime was put, cased in
leather.

The Turkish arms are few, and remarkable neither for beauty
nor curiosity; which is singular in a place so long at war with the
Osmanlis and the Moors. The library was founded in I790 by the
Bailli de Tcncin, who presented the public with 9700 volumes. It
contains many curious and old works, and is composed of the pri-
vate collections of the knights, who were obliged to bequeath their
books to this public institution. Here are deposited some antiques
of various kinds found in Malta and 6020; among which are a
parallel Greek and Punic inscription, several strange headless
ﬁgures from Crendi, two curious coﬂins of terra-cotta, and a few
other objects of various styles and epochs.

Of St. John‘s Church the most curious‘part is the ﬂoor, where the
arms of all the grand masters are inlaid in various coloured mar-
bles. They have been very useful for heraldry.

The tapestry of this church is also very ﬁne. It is put up at tht
(Etc of St. John, and continues to be exposed to public view for
several days, before and after that ceremony. The silver railing in
the chapel of the Madonna, at the east end, is curious. It is said to
have owed its preservation, at the time of the French occupation of

a 2

