_
“5“

Egypt.
word is expressive of joy and gladneas,
face the festival which the Greeks
cell or ‘ the feast of joy,’
5 by the Egyptians termed Sari.”

A similar account is given by
Tacitus, Macrobius, and Pausanias;
but Clemens states that the statue
was sent by the people of Sinope to
Ptolem! Philadelphus, as a mark of

'tu e, be having relieved their city
ram famine by a supply of corn ; and
some suppose “ it was brought from
Pontus to Alexandria, in consequence
of the great inﬂux of strangers into
that city.“

Whether Sarapis was a foreign
deity, or merely an arbitrary Greek
form of Osiris, the Egyptians them-
selves never acknowledged him among

temple of Sarapis was ever admitted
within the precincts of their cities. He
was. however, the principal divinity in
Greek and Roman towns. and in
later times his worship became more
general there than that of any other
deity. ~

The Sampeum subsisted long after
the introduction of Christianity into
Egypt, as the last hold of the Pagans
of Alexandria. Nor did it lose its
importance, as Straho would lead us
to suppose, from the number of rival
temples, or the increasing conse-

quence of NicoPolis; and it continued -
to be their chief resort, until ﬁnally !

demolished by order of Theodosius,
a.n. 389, when the votarics of the
cross entirely subverted the ancient
religion of Egypt. The building
and its destruction, are thus described
by Gibbon. The temple of Sarapis,
“ which rivallcd the pride and magni-
ﬁcence of the Capitol, was erected on
the spacious summit of an artificial
mount, raised one hundred steps above
the level of the adjacent parts of the
city; and the interior cavity was
strongly supported by arches, and
distributed into vaults and subter-
raneous apartments. The conse-
crated buildings were surrounded by

a quadrangular portico: the stately '

noon 1. — AuxANmnA — eAnAPamr.

 

. a civil war.

the gods of their Pantheon, and no '

 

 

 

89

halls, the exquisite statues, displayed
the triumph ofthe arts; and the trea-
sures of ancient learning were pre-
served in the famous Alexandrian
library, which had arisen with new
splendour from its ashes."

But in progress of time, the ant-
mosity of the Christians was directed

'nst this ediﬁce; the “ pious in-
dignation of Theophilus" could no
longer tolerate the honours paid to
Sarapis; “and the insults which he
offered to an ancient chapel of Bac-
chus convinced the Pagans that he
meditated a more important and dan-
gerous enterprise. In the tumul-
tuous capital of Egypt, the slightest
provocation was suﬂicient to inﬂame
The votarles of Sarapis,
whose strength and numbers were
much inferior to those of their an.
tagonists, rose in arms at the instiga-
tion of the philosOpher Olympius,
who exhorted them to die in defence
of the altars of the gods. These
Pagan fanatics fortiﬁed themselves in
the temple, or rather fortress, of Sara-
pis, repelled the hesicgers by daring
sallies and a resolute defence, and by
the inhuman cruelties which they ex.
ercised on their Christian prisoners,
obtained the last consolation of de-
spair. The efforts of the prudent
magistrate were usefully exerted for
the establishment of a truce, till the
answer of Theodosius should deter-
mine the fate of Sarapis. The two
parties assembled without arms in the
principal square; and the imperial
rescript was publicly read. But
when a sentence of destruction against
the idols of Alexandria was pro.
nounccd, the Christians set up a
shout of joy and exultation, whilst
the unfortunate Pagans, whose fury
had given way to consternation, re-
tired with hasty and silent steps, and
eluded, by their ﬂight or obscurity,
the resentment of their enemies.
Theophilus proceeded to demolish
the temple of Ssrapis, without any
other diﬂiculties than those which he
found in the weight and solidity of

