 

Egypt

intelligible piece of detail. “ On
either side of the portico project,
what are called the wings: they are
equal in hei ht to the temple itself,
and distant rom each other. at ﬁrst it
little more than the breadth of the
baaeof the tetnple; but then. on pro.
ceeding forward. their lines curve
over towards each other, to the extent
of 50 or 60 cubits. These walls
have sculptures of colossal ﬁgures.
like the works of the Etruscans. and
those of the ancient Greeks. There
is also a certain chamber supported
by columns, as in Memphis. of Bar-
barian character. for except that the
columns are large and numerous,
and in many rows, it has nothing
either graceful or elegant about it.
but is rather remarkable for a vain
display of labour."

The apex of the obelisk indicates.
from its shape. the addition of some
covering. probably of metal; and the
form of that in the Fyoom, of the
same king. Osirtasen l., is equally
singular. it is. indeed. not unusual
to ﬁnd evidences of obelisks having
been ornamented in this manner;
and the apices of those at Lusor, as
well as of the smaller obelisk at
Karnsk. which have a slight curve at
each of their four edges, recede from
the level of the ﬁnes, as if to leave
room for overlaying them with a
thin casing of bronze gilt.

The faces of the obelisk at Helio-
polis measure at the ground 6 feet 1
inch on the N. and S ; 6 feet 3
inches on the E. and W. ; and it is
about 69 feet 4 inches high. above
the level of the ground. or 68 feet
2 inches above the ba-e or ﬁrst pe-
destal. The latter is 9 feet in height,
and 10 feet 4 inches in breadth. pru-
jecting therefore about two feet be-
yond the obelisk on every side. This.
again, stands on a larger pedestal.
about l9 feet square. the height of
which. owing to the water at the bot.
tom. Icnuld not ascertain.

According to Strabo the city of
iieliopolis stood on a large mound

morons — Haunting.

 

167

or raised site. before which were lakes
that received the water of the neigh-
bouring canals. It is therefore evi-
dent how much the Nile and the land
of Egypt have been raised since his
time. as the obelisks are now buried
to the depth of 5 feet winches (with-
out reckoning the estal); and as
he saw the base oft e temple and the
pavement of its dramas, the inunda-
tion could not then have reached to a
level with its area. Part of the lofty
mounds may still be seen in the site
of the ancient houses of the town.
which appear to have stood on higher
ground than the temple, owing no
doubt to their foundations having
been raised from time to time as they
were rebuilt. and no change of eleva-
tion taking place in the site of the
temple. This continued in the place
where its foundations had been laid
by the ﬁrst Osirtasen; and the same
was observed by Herodotus, though
in a much greater degree. in the
position of the temple of Diana at
Bubastis. “which, having remained
on the same level where it was ﬁrst
built, while the rest of the town had
been raised on various occasions. was
seen by those who walked round the
walls in a hollow below them."

That Strabo is fully justiﬁed in
speaking of the antiquity of the
Temple of the Sun, is proved by the
presence of the name of Osirtasen,
who reigned from the year l7‘IO to
1696 before our era.

Though small. Heliopolis was a
town of great celebrity; but it suf-
fered considerably by the invasion of
Cambyses. Many of its obelisks.
and ptobttbly other monuments. were
afterwards taken away to Rome and
Alexandria; and at the time of the
Gtographer's visit it had the cha-
racter of a deserted city. Strabo also
saw “ some very large houses where
the priests used to live, that being the
place to which they particularly re-
sorted in former times for the study
of philosophy and astronomy;" but
the tcachers,aswellas tbesciencea

