 

402 non-re 28. - acumen. Seet. IV.

Bereaice. -_— Bereaiee, or Bereaies
Wodytiea, stands on a small bay,
at the extremity of a deep gulf,
according to Strabo, called Sinus
Immundus, which is formed by the
projecting point of Lepte Extrema,
now Cape Nose, erroneously laid
down in some charts as an island. It
is even styled Geseereh “island" by
the Arabs, who call the cape “ Rae
Banas,” from a sbekh buried there,

or “ Res Emkhéet." I believe the !

sailors give it the name of Ras el

Unf, or “ Cape Nose.” This long -

peninsula or chersonesue, projecting

from the Sinus Immanuins, is men- I

tioned by Diodorus, who says its
neck was so narrow that boats were
sometimes carried across it, from the

gulf to the open see. From the '
end of the cape may be perceived the :

 

 

bemwith a staircase leading tothe
summit, the whole ornamented with
sculptures and hieroglyphic in relief:
ItwasdedicatedtoSerapis,asappeare
from a Greek inscription on a a

stone I found in one of the chem-
bers; and in the hieroglyphies are
the names of Tiberius and Trajan.
A few ﬁgures of the contemplar
deities may also be traced, on exca-
vating the lower part, or wherever
the stone has withstood the action of
the atmosphere; which has proved
more prejudicial to its limestone
walls than the saline and nitrous
soil that has for ages covered the
greater part of what now remains.
In excavating the chambers (for I
did not attempt the portico) I found,
beside the Greek dedication to Sa-
rapis, the head of a Roman emperor,

peak of St. John, or the Emerald I either Trajan or Adrian, a small
Isle, Gezeeret Zibirgeh or Semérgid, ' fountain, and some rude ﬁgures,

which seems to be the Germans, or !

serpentine island of Diodorus. The

inner bay, which constituted the;

ancient port of Berenice, is now

tide its mouth is closed by a bank,
which is then left entirely exposed.
The tide rises and falls in it about
one foot.

The town of Berenice was founded
by Ptolemy Philadelphus, and so
called after his mother. It was of
considerable size, compared to its
rival the Myos Hormos; but its
streets were not laid out with the
same regularity, and it was not de-
fended by the same kind of fortiﬁed
wall. The Myos Hormos indeed
was very small, and scarcely larger
than one of the ordinary hydreumas.
' The houses of Berenice are built of
very inferior materials, being merely
rude pieces of madrepore, collected
on the sea-coast, and, as might be
supposed, their walls are in a very
dilapidated condition. There is a
temple at the end of a street, towards
the centre of the town, built of hewn
stone, and consisting of three inner
and the same number of outer cham-

 

probebly exvotos; and since my visit,
the oliicers of one of the surveying
ships resumed the excavation, and

; found another inscription.
nearly ﬁlled with sand; and at low 3

The road now usually taken from
the Nile to Berenice lies through the
Watlée Sakéyt; the ancient road
from Coptos to that port passed
through Wadée Matoolee, and other
valleys that succeed it to the south-
ward.

The modern name of Berenice is
Sakéyt el Kublee, or “ the Southern
Salu’iyt.”

A road leads from Berenice to the
basaaile mountain, now Om Kerre-
beh, passing by some ruined stations,
and an ancient village of considerable
extent; and some distance to the
eastward of those quarries is the
Mom Pentedactylus, now Gebel Fe-
rﬁ'id, whose ﬁve cones are still more
remarkable when seen from Bereniee.
At 0m Kerrebeh are considerable
workings of what the ancients called
basanite; a real quarry of which
I afterwards found near Gebel e'
Rosséss.

On the coast between Bereaice and
Kossayr are the “ several ports "

