 

 

U. Egypt.

served, there is no water in the chan-
nel to the east, bet“ een that island
and the ruins. This is supposing
you have not seen _l_{oorneh in going
up the Nile: if you have, then stop
I. Luaor and ﬁnish your visit to
Kernek; and the only thing to bear
in mind is, to see the ruins on the
west bank before those of Kamak.

b. outcaas'r stone or sense teases.

Some persons will, no doubt, feel dis-
posed to take a more cursory view of
the ruins of Thebes than others, being
pressed for time, or feeling no very
great interest in antiquities; and as
they may perhaps he in a hurry toknow
what is to be done to get through the
task they have undertaken, and kill
their (ions with the greatest dis-
patch, I shall begin with instructions
for the quickest mode of seeing the
objects most worthy of notice. and
the order in which they may be
visited. Taking Eoorneh (Goorna)
as the commencement, and Karnalt as
the end of these excursions, you may
begin by visiting the tombs ofthe
kings, for which, of course, as for the
other tombs, candles are indispen-
sable, as well as a small supply of
estables, and, above all, of water in
godleﬁs. Each of these porous
water-bottles may be along with
string (as on board a ship). to pre-
vent the boatmen, or whoever can y
them, from holding them by the
neck with their dirty hands. Mont»

QUICKEBT MODE 0! SEEING mans.

 

over, they should not be allowed to I
touch the water, and should be made ' very short time ; and he will then go

to bring their own supply if they
went it.

let Day.-— West Baal. By set-
ting off early in the morning, and fol-
lowing the course of the valley, after
a ride of about an hour, you reach
the tombs of the kings; and after
visiting the sis principal ones
(marked 17. ll. 9. 6; l. and 14.),
ascend to the 3. W., and cross the
hills to Medeenet lliboo;

 

837

may see the two coloasi of the plain
(the vocal statue and its companion),
and the palace ofthe great Remeses
(the Remeseum, generally called the
Memnonium), on your return to the
nver.

2nd Day. Next morning, after
looking over the small temple of old
_l_(oorneh, called gear e' Rnb‘yk, a

-little less than half a mile from the

lending place at the sycamore tree, you
may visit the three principal tombs of
the Assaseef(marked a. Q. and R. on
my Survey of Thebes), and the temple
called Dayr el Bahree, below the chﬂh
at the N. W. extremity of this part of
the valley, from which a path will
lead you to the hill of Shekh Abd el
Eoorneh, where, at all events, you
must not fail to see the tomb, No. 35 ,
and as many of those mentioned in
my description of the private tombs
as your time and inclination will per-
mit. Hence a short ride, one-third
of a mile, will take you to the Ptole-
mat‘c temple of Dayr el Mcdeéneh.
from which you may return (if you
have not satisﬁed your curiosity the
day before), by the coloasi, the palace
of Remeses the Great, and the scat-
tered remains in their vicinity. This
is the most superﬁcial view a traveller
should allow himself to take of the
west side of Thebes. Crossing the
river to Luaor in his boat the same
evening. he will be enabled to walk
up early the nest morning to the
temple, while asses are preparing for
his ride to Karnak.

3rd Day. Lusor will occupy a

to Karnak, partly by what was once
a long avenue of sphinsea, remains of
which he will see just before he
reaches the outskirts of those ruins.
lie had better look over the whole of
Kernak the ﬁrst day, and reserve a
closer investigation for a second visit,
two days being certainly not too

,much for the mere examination of

this immense ruin. it is however

after possible to do it in one,andthetra-

uhich. if sulicient time remains, you . veller who merely wishes to any be

Egypt.

