 

 

Cairo.
lea beyond the usual size, or ﬁtted up '. houses at Cairo that prevents many

with glass windows, and other extra
conveniences. In the Frank quarter
and the vicinity they are dearer, vary-
ing from 100 piastres to 250 a month ;
and the British Hotel was let for
90.000 piastrea (9001.) a year, or at
l667 piastres a month.

This great increase in price is partly
owing to the great ﬁre of 1838 hav-
ing destroyed many houses in the
Frank quarter, which their owners
have never been able to rebuild, and
which are still in ruins; partly to
the inﬂux of strangers who occupy so
many more than formerly ; and partly
to their owners ﬁnding that strangers
make little difficulty in paying large
prices, whenever they are asked. It
is to these two last causes also that
must be attributed the increase in the
prices of so many other things. as
boat-hire, servants’ wages. and the
like; while in the Turkish quarter,
beyond the inﬂuence of Europeans,
prices have only risen in proportion
to the decreased value of the pinstre.

Those who, coming from India on
two years‘ leave, wish to stay in Egypt,
may ﬁnd houses which can be made
comfortable at a triﬂing expense. It
would, perhaps, not be worth while
for a month or two; but the total
expense for furniture, alterations, and
rent, would he very little at the end
of a year. Generally speaking, the
houses are in a very uncomfortable
state, and for winter scarcely habit-
able; it is, therefore. necessary to put
in glass windows, and introduce va-
rious little improvements, besides fur-
nishing the rooms, and making re-
pairs. lt will he as well to come to
an understanding with the owner of
the house, that the substitution of glass

not entail upon you the necessity of
replacing all the original wood-well: ;
and if he has any scruples about the
matter. it had bettcrbe stipulated that
he shall talte it away, or lock it up
himself in some closet of the house.
It is the uncomfortable state of

HOTELS -— HOUSES.

 

 

119

invalids going from Europe to that
excellent climate for the winter; and
unless a friend prepared one before-
hand, in vain would they hope to meet
with at Cairo house (it for a wintet's
residence. If no friend could be
found to perform this charitable ofﬁce,
the best plan would be to go to an
hotel at Cairo, and aher having ﬁxed
upon a house, to request some one to
overlook the repairs and alterations,
and then go into Upper Egypt (if not
inclined to stay at the hotel), while
they were going on. The best houses
are in the Frank and Copt uarters.

That Cairo is well adap for those
who require a mild climate is certain,
and many English medical men would
send patients to Egypt. as did those
of ancient Rome, provided houses could
be found ready for their reception.
Unfortunately the natives are too poor
to tit them up; and the Europeans
settled there are so prone to impose on
strangers, that it is hopeless to depend
upon, or applv to, them to procure a
house ; therefore, if a man wishes to be
comfortable, and not to be cheated,
he had better go and arrange matters
for himself.

In hiring houses one thing should
be remembered, of which European
strangers are seldom aware, that a
house at Cairo lets much below the
average rent, if without the advantage
of a well, or a court yard; and one
which would let a ith a well at 40 pias-
tres would not be taken by a native
for more than 30; and that of It!)
piastres would not fetch more than 75

- or 80. The cost of malting a well is

very little, not being more than 500
to 700 piastres, according to the

: dfplh.
windows, or other alterations, shall ;

in looking at empty houses. the
most disagreeable result is being
eosercd with ﬂeas, which it is next to
impossible to avoid. A Turk, in
mentioning the subject, recommended
that three or four fcﬂd‘s should be
ﬁrst sent through the rooms, to carry
06' the hundreds that lay in wait for

