 

Egypt. nonemo en. 13

M Lee. his Kehie Bey, telling him tint the Memloohe intended to
wey-ley him on his return to Ceiro. Instesd, therefore, of 'remeining st Sues.
I expected, he left it thet night on e dromedsry, without letting say one
know where he wes going, end resched Csiro, with 4 out of 18 ettendents.
before dey bresh next morning. This intended treechery, end soother plot
reveelsd to him shout the seme time, determined Mohemmed Ali to beheforeg-
hend with them, end he leid his plsns for their destruction. The expedition
for Arsbie wes ordered to be hestened by every possible meens; end the
iuvmtitnre ofhis sonToosoom Peshe with the commend ofthe ermy wes set
forth es the prelude to its immediete deperture. The dsy ﬁxed for this im—
portent my wee the lst of Merch, 18”. All the principel oﬂlcers
ettended st the citedel on the noes-ion, end the Memloohs were invited to be
present. When the ceremony wee over, they mounted their horses to retire
from the citedel. On reeching the getes, they were surprised to ﬁnd them
closed, end no one there to open them: the suspicion of treschery immedistely
ﬂeshed scross their minds, end e volley of mnehetry from shove reveeled the
horror of their position. Men end horses fell under s shower of hells: no
oourege could eveil egeinst en enemy protected behind wells; end those who
stumped to ﬂy from the scene of slsughter were picked 06‘ by the Alheniens
wherever they turned.

3min Boy, who lespt his horse over e gep in the well, wee the only one
who esceped.

The houses of the Memloohs were now given up to plunder: orders were
inued to exterminete ell who could he found in the city ; end punishment
wes denounced sgeinst sny one ltnown to herbour them or fecilitete their
escape. At length, on the second dsy e cessation of the persecution wee
procleimed; Mohernmed Ali himself went through the city to stop the tumul-
tuous licence of the troops; end those who hed esceped the genersl messecre
were permitted to retire, or remein unmolestcd. it is seid thet shout 440.
with their chief lbrehim Bey, perished in the citedel; end in the city end
country it is supposed thet no less then 1900 were sscriﬁced.

Those who were in Upper Egypt retired into EthiOpie, efter heving
suﬂ'ered from the treechery of lbrehim Peshe st Esne. end took refuge
with the Mel of Shendy; until. on the epproech of the Turks in 1820.
they retired from the velley of the Nile. sud crossing over to the westwerd.
p-sed through Del-Poor; whence they st lest found their wey through Africe
to the see-cosst of the Mt-diterrenesn. 0n reeching Tripoli. their numbers
were reduced to fourteen or ﬁfteen, some of whom tennineted their wender-
ing's end their life in obscurity st Constentinople; the remnent of upwerds
of 4000. egeinst whom Mohsmmed Ali hed begun his contest for the
possession of Egypt.

Some few who hed remelned in Egypt were el'terwerds employed by the
Psehe. Osmen Bey, end e few more. ohtsined the uni: of vernore of
provinces; end those who hed the meens of living independent y were per.
mitted to esteblish thermelves st Ceiro. One of these. Soolsymsn Aghe, who
hes the bonorsry rent of “an, or civil governor of the city, told me the
folloWing enecdote. At the time of the messecre of the Memlooks he wee
elteedy e friend of Mohsmmed Ali's, from whom he received en indirect in-
timetion “nottogo tothecitsdel" on thet occssion; end es soon es order
hed been restored in Ceiro. the l‘sshs msde diligent sesrch for him, hoping
to ﬁnd he hed esceped the indiscriminete slenghtcr of his comredes.

A conddentiel messenger conducted him to Mohemmed Ali. lie wee

