 

 

i"

heard, and I have no doubt
ichneumon (which is an ani-
eosnmon about Shoobra and
if even kept tied up in the
ght tend greatly to prevent
t of rats from the shore. A
tin in the slnpe of a funnel
on the rope at nightwiththe
mouth towards the land, would also
prevent their running along it to the
boat, but it would be diliicult to in-
duce the sailors to take the trouble of
placing it nightly on the rope, and the
boats are so close to the share
that these troublesome visitors have
nothing to do but leap into them.
Cats are useful if they can be kept on
board, but they are apt to go ashore,
III are often lost. All things which
the rats are likely to eat, and which
can be put into jars, called Bender}
may be easily kept out of their reach

113 best thing to destroy ﬂies, still
one of the plagues of Egypt, is an
illusion of quassia. Put a smell
handful into a white basin, and pour
apint of boiling water over it, and let
it cool: a little sugar may be sprink-
led over it as a greater inducement to
them to come to it.

Besides curtains for the windows at
night, it will be as well if there is no
glass in them to put it into two at least
(one on each side of the cabin). as the
alternative of cold or darkness is by
no means pleasant in winter.

A kitchen should also be put up
in the fore part of the boat. It should
be made of planks of wood. with
three or four lire-places in it, having
their sides strengthened with gypsum,
and the bottoms or gratings of thin
iron bars. It will cost about 5s
piastres. and may be made by the ré'is
under the superintendcnce of a servant.

After having been a few days on
board, on his way up the Nile, if he
ﬁnds the boat make little way, he had

{2555

iii

BOATS.

 

127

to impede the sailing of the boat; for
with this view they sometimes fasten
a log or short plank of wood athwart
thekeehtostopthespeedoftheboat
and len n the voyage ; and in
coming own, if the wood stone with
a hole in the centre, which on ascend-
ing the Nile is generally kept on deck
near the prow, is no longer seen on
board, he had better hid his servant
ascertain where it has been put, as
they sometimes suspend it by a long
rope from the stern benth the water,
with the same view of impeding the
boat, on its way down. Herodotus,
in describing the large boats of the
ancient Egyptians, says, “ They
adopt the following method in
going down the Nile. Being pro-
vided with a bundle or wicker hur-
dle of tamarisk interlaced with
rushes, and a stone with a hole weigh-
ing about two talents (about 130 lb.),
they tie the former to the head of the
boat, allowing it to follow the coum
of the stream, and fasten the stone
by a rope to the stem. The tama-
risk hurdle carried forward by the
current drags after it the Don's such
is the name of these hosts), an the
stone sinking in the water serves to
direct its course." But the modern
Egyptians omit the tamarisk bushes,
which was intended to aid the boat in
its descent, and have only adopted
that portion of the contrivance in-
vented by their ancestors, which an-
swers the object they have in view.
Another very necessary precaution
is to order the his to forbid the boatp
men to tie the sails, and insist upon
their holding the rope called M09560!
in their hands: which is termed keep-
ing it Mail-a, " free ;" for to this al-
most all the accidents that happen
on the Nile are to be attributed. in
those parts wherethe mountains ap-
preach the river it should be particu.

better order one of his native servants | larly attended to, as at Gehel Shelth

unobserved at night, or under the

Umhdrak. Gebel e' 'i‘ayr, and thence

plea of bathing, to essmine the end to Shelth 'l'imay, Gebcl About-Faydee,

of the keel near the rudder. to ascer-

Gehel Shekh iieréedce, and GM

tain that no tricks have been played Tookh below Girgeh.
o 4

