 

126

journey beyond the cataract, or to de-
duct from that of their own boat during
the whole absence of the traveller in
Nubia.

Another is the demand for the re-
turn of a boat, when taken to some
place either up or down the river, and
there discharged. This is also a new
and unheard-of abuse, and should not
be tolerated. There is no such thing
as back earrings in the country. As
agreements are drawn up and depo-
sited at the consulate, such abuses
au ht to be prevented.

e hire of the ﬁrst month may be
paid in advance; and when in Upper
Egypt, half of each successive month,
or the wages of the bostmen only,
which are 50 piastres a month each.
By all means the rib and boatmen
must be made obedient to orders: the
traveller will otherwise find them in-
suﬂ'erably unruly and troublesome,
too much indulgence being considered
by them the result of fear or inexperi-
ence; nor, unless he maintains strict
discipline, can he venture to give
them a feast of meat at the large
towns. They sometimes stop at places
on some excuse, even when the wind
is fair: this should not be allowed,
except at Osioot, or some other large
town, to have their bread made. Be-
sides occasionally giving meat (or
money to buy it, or tobacco), he will
make them a present of money, on
his return to Cairo. The ré'is is
always paid twice as much as a sailor,
1 ml at the end of the journey he re-
quires about half, or one third of the
whole sum given as bachsht'sh. This
will depend on the number of sailors.

Before his departure, the traveller‘s
servant must see that all the oars are
on board, and the sails in good con-
dition ; he will also overlook the con-
struction of an awning before the
cabin, which is the most comfortable
addition to a boat, and serves as a
cool and cheerful place to sit in during
the day. The réis will undertake to
have it made. under the superintend-

ence of his servant. It is sometimes

CAIRO. -- BOATS.

 

Sect. II.

formed of mats laid over palm sticks,
and if so, care should be taken that
they be not common coarse ones called
Noe”, but the same that are used in
rooms at Cairo. A farbetter kind of
awning is made of thiclt tent-cloth, or
a white cotton stuﬁ' called About, or a
thicker kind called Mmbbn, lined
with the same dyed blue, stretched
over a wooden frame-work. This
gives more room than the circular top
of the mats, and is easily raised, if
necessary, in a high wind. Find-
ing that Europeans always made
those awnings as an extra room,
and sought a place where they could
stand uptight, many have added an
open wooden porch to that part of
the boat, when it was building, and
have made the ﬂoor of the cabins
lower; which last is a great improve-
ment.

The ﬁrst thing to be done, after
taking a boat, is to have it sunk, to
rid it of the rats, and other noxious
inhabitantsit may have. This should
be done on the apposite shore, which
the boat must leave before night;
otherwise the rats will resume their
berths on board, and the precaution
will have been useless. The cabins
should also be well washed, and when
dry should be painted carefully, the
expenses of which will be about 70
piasttes for a cangia of 100 ardebs
hurthen, with two small cabins, or
more if many colours are used:
larger boats of course in proportion.
All the cracks should be previously
stopped with putty, and they may be
closely papered over ; but paste must
not be used, as it will harbour insects,
and is not likely to hold fast for any
time. The best preservative against
disagreeable intruders at night is Mr.
Levinge’s contrivance of sheets and
mosquito net in one piece, already
mentioned in page 8. The only dis-
advantage of it is the trouble of get-
ting in and out. Another preventive
is a small piece of camphor in the bed,
and another under the pillow. An
iron rat-trap is also a good thing to

