 

178

and measures 863 feet between the 1
corners.

“ No vestiges of houses remain near
them, but merely pure sand on every
side, with something like lentils, com-
mon in the greater part of Africa.
The princip question is, how the
blocks were carried up to such a
height? For some sup that
mounds, composed of nitre and salt,
were gradually formed as the worlt
advanced, and were afterwards dis-
solved by the water of the river, as
soon as it was ﬁnished; others, that
bridges were made of mud briclts,
which, when the work was completed,
were used to build private houses;
since the Nile, being on a lower level,
could not be brought to the spot.
Within the great pyramid isa well 86
cubits (129 feet) deep, by which they
sappose the river was admitted.”

(1. me name rrnaasrn.

The ﬁrst thing the traveller gene-
rally does, on arriving at the pyramids,
is to ascend that of Chops. The
ascent is by no means diiiicult, though
fatiguing to some unaccustomed to
climbing, from the height of the stones,
while others ascend with the greatest
ease ; and I have known one, an oﬂicer
of the Cyclops, reach the top in 8
minutes. Ladies, who are often drag-

up, rather than assisted, by the
Arabs, will ﬁnd a great advantage in
having a couple of steps, or a foot-
stool, to be carried by the Arabs, and
put down where the stones are high;
and this would be not less useful in
descending, than in going up, the
pyramid. The easiest side to ascend
is the east. 0n the summit is a
space about 89 feet square, (much
larger than in the days of Pliny and
Diodorus,) having been increased
when the casing and the outer
tiers were removed by the caliphs
to serve for the construction of
moslts and other buildings at Cairo.
The mania for writing names is
abundantly manifested in the number
inscribed on the top of this monu-

csmo. — memos 4.

 

SectII.

ment, and scarcely less at the entrance
of the passage below, which, as in all
the pyramids, is on the north side.
The view from the summit is exten-
sive, and, during the inundation, pa-
culiarly interesting, and character-
istic of Egypt. The canals winding
through the plain, or the expense
of water when the Nile is at tshigbest,
and the minarets of Cairo, the citadel,
and the range of the Mokuttum hills
in the distance, with the quarries of
Miserah, whence so many of the
bloclts used for building the pyramids
were taken, are interesting features
in this peculiar landscape; and the
refushing appearance of the plain,
whether covered with water or with its
green vegetation, are striking con-
trasts to the barren desert on the
west To the southward are the py-
ramids of Abooseer, Salslgara, and
Dashoor; to the northward, the
heights of Abooroash ; and a little to
the east of north, are the two stone
bridges built by the Arab kings of
Egypt, which some suppose to have
served for the transport of the stones
from the pyramids to Cairo.

The masonry over the entrance of
the great pyramid is very singular:
two large blocks resting against each
Other form a sort of pointed arch, and
serve to take off the superincumbent
weight from the roof of the passage.
The position of the stones in the body
of the pyramid is horizontal, and not,
as in the false pyramid, with a dip
towards the centre at right angles
with its exterior face; but at the en-
trance, they follow the inclination of the
p e, which is an angle of 27°, or,
as Co . Howard Vyse gives it, 26° 41’.

On going down the passage, at
about 80 feet from its present mouth,
you perceive the end of a granite
block, which closes the upper pas-
sage, and which was once carefhlly
concealed by a triangular piece of
stone ﬁtting into the roof of the lower
passage, and secured in that position
by a cramp on either side. This
stone has been removed, and the end

