 

 

 

U. Egypt.
the xueen Cleopatra, makes oﬂ‘erings
to

munre; but the rest of the
sculptures appear to present the
names of Pbyscon alone, who adopted,
on his brother's death, the name and
oval of Philometor, with the addi-
tional title of “ Soter.”

A staircase, lighted by a window
of liar form, once led to the roof;
an the back part of the sons consists
of three parallel chambers. The
centre one, or adytum, presents the
sculptures of Philopetor on the back
and half the side walls, which last
were cornpleted by the second Ener-
getes, as a line of hieroglyphic, at the
junction of the Iirst and subsequent
compartments. announces in the fol-
lowing terms: —“This additional
work of good atone (7) made he, the
king of men, Eucrgetea, son of the
sun. Ptolemy the ever-living, beloved
of Pthah, (and) the royal sister, the
queen. mistress of the (upper and
lower) regions, Cleopatra. (and) the
royal consort, the queen, mistresaof the
regions. Cleopatra, gods Euergetes,be-
loved of Amunre (w ho is), the defender
ofthe sanctuary." Amunre, with Msut
and Khonso. Athor and J ustice, share
the honours of the adytum; but the
dedication of Philopstor decides that
the temple was consecrated to the
Egyptian Aphrodite, “the president
of the west." in the eastern cham-
ber Philopstor again appears in the
sculptures of the end wall, where
Athor and Justice hold the chief
place; while Amunre and Osiris, the
principal deities in the lateral com-
partments, receive the od'eringe of
Buergctes ii.

in the western chamber the sub-
jects are totally diﬂ'erent from any
found in the temples of Thebes; and
appear to have a sepulchral character.
Here l’hilopstor pays his devotions
to Osiris and his; on the east aide
Physcon oti'ers incense to the statue
of Khem, preceded by Anubis, and
followed by the ark of Sohari; and
on the opposite wall is the judgment
scene, frequently found on the papyrl

DATE EL HEDEENEB.

 

363

of the Egyptians. Osiris, seated on
his throne, awaits the arrival of those
souls which are ushered into Amenti;
the four geuii stand before him on a
lotus blossom; and the ﬁnale Cerbe-
rus is there, with [-1an seated
on the crook of Osiris. Thoth, the
god of letters, arrives in the presence
of the king of Hades, bearing in his
hand a tablet, on which theactionaof
the deceased are noted down; while
Horus and Aroeris are employed in
weighing the good deeds of the
judged against theoatrich feather. the
symbol of Justice or Truth. A cyno-
cephalua. the emblem of Tboth, is
seated on the top of the balance. At
length comes the deceased; who ad-
vances between two ﬁgures of the
goddess, and bears in his hand the
symbol of 'i'ruth,indicating his meri-
torious actions. and his ﬁtness for
admission to the presenceof Osiris.
The forty-two assessors, seated above,
in two lines. complete the sculptures
of the west wall; and all these sym-
bols of death were perhaps owing to
the chamber being dedicated to Osiris.
in his peculiar character ofjudge of
the dead.

Besides the monarchs by whom the
temple was commenced, we may
mention the “ Antocrator Cesar,”
or Augustus, whose name appears at
the back of the naos.

Sereral cnchorial and Coptic in-
scriptions have been written in the
interior, and on the outside of the
vestibule, whose walla. rent by the
sinking of the ground and human vio-
lence, make us acquainted with e not
uncommon custom of Egyptian ar-
chitectg—tbe use of wooden does-
toiled cramps, which connected the
blocks of masonry. Wood. in a
country where very little rain falls,
provided the stones are closely ﬁtted
together, lasts for ages, as may be
seen by these sycamore cramps; and
the Egyptians calculated very accu-
rately the proportionate durability of
dilerent substances, and the situation
adapted to their respective propertim.

I 8

