 

UIEgypt.

every oneto befaithfull maintained;
and if it be notfound n the human
ﬁgure. the reason is that their artists
were forbidden by religious prejudice
to deviate from ancient and ﬁxed
rules. And though the employment
of granite, particularly for statues,
cannot be considered the result of
reﬁned taste, it will at least be ad-
mitted that the perfection they arrived
at in aculpturing this stone shows
wonderful ingenuity. and testifies the
advanced state of Egyptian art at a
most remote period.

That they borrowed nothing from
the Greeks will beadmitted b every
one in the least acquain with
Egyptian antiquities, though some
have imagined that the accession of
the Ptolemies introduced a change.
and even an imp-mt, in the style
of Egyptian sculpture. A change
had, indeed. already commenced, and
was making fatal progress during the

era of those monarchs; but it was the '

prelude to the total decadence of
Egyptian art; and shortly after the
Roman conquest, the human ﬁgure.
the hieroglyphics. and even the sub-
jects represented in the temples,
scarcely retained a trace of their for-
mer spirit. Yet their ediﬁces were
grand and majestic; and theantiquary
feels additional regret as he contem-
plates the remains of that era, re-
taining still the character of E yp-
tian architecture, but disﬁguret'f by
inferior sculpture.

Architecture, more dependent on
adherence to certain rules than the
sister art. was naturally less speedily
aﬂ'ected by thedecline of the taste and
ingenuity of its professors; and as
long as encouragement was held out
to their exertions. the grandest edi-
lces might yet be constructed from
mere imitation, or from the knowledge
of the means necessary for their exe-
cution. But this could never be the
case with sculpture, which had so
many more requisites than previous
example or mere custom,— norcould
success be attained by the routine of

onnusn Ol' LUIOB.

 

 

 

887

mechanism. or the servile imitation of
former m

H. asst-salt nan—toms, at. o;-
soa, oa aaoo 't. staooio, cattao xx
rue sacram- xovrraaxa “som-
aast ear ”

Lats-or. or Labor, which occupies
part of the site of ancient Dioapolia.
still holds the rank of a market town.
Its name signiﬁes “the palaces.”
from the temple there erected
Amunoph Ill. and Remeeee II. The
former monarch built the original
sanctuary and the adjoining cham-
bers, with the addition of the large
colonnade and the pylon before it, to
53¢ Bemeses ll. alterwards added

great court, the idal towels,

These, though last in the order of
antiquity, necessarily form the present

; commencement of the temple; which,

like many others belonging to difc
ferent epochs, is not “ two separate
ediﬁces," but one and the me
building. A dromoe, connecting it
with Karnak. extended in frootof the
two beautiful obelisks of red graniu.
whose four sides are covered with a
profusion of hieroglyphics, no lees
admirable for the style oftheir exe-
cution than for the depth to which
they are cut, which in many instances
exceeds two inches. The faces of
the obelisks. particularly those which
are opposite each other. are remark-
able for a slight convexity of their
centres, which appears to have been in-
troduced to obviate the shadow
thrown by the sun. even when on a
line with a plane surface. Thee!-
terior angle thus formed by the inter-
secting lines of direction of either
side ofthe face. is about 3 degrees;
and this is one of many proofs of their
attentive observation of the pheno-
mena of nature.

The westernmost of these two obe-
lisks has been removed by the French,
and istheonenowln the Placedela
Concorde at Paris. Being at Luxor
when itwastahen down. [observed

a 8

