 

 

 

 

U. Egypt.

introduction of the king, by Horus,
into the presence of Osiris and Athor.

Though not the most striking, the
most interesting drawings in this tomb
are those of the nest hall. which
had been left unﬁnished; nor can
anyone look upon those ﬁgures with
the eye of a draughtsman, without
paying a just tribute to the freedom
of their outlines. in Egyptian bas-
reliefs the position of the ﬁgures was
ﬁrst decided by the artist, who traced
them roughly with a red colour,
and the draughtsman then carefully
sketched the outlines in black, and
submitted them to the inspection of
the former, who altered (as appears
in some few instances here) those
parts which he deemed deﬁcient in
proportion or correctness of attitude;
and in that state they were left for the
chisel of the sculptor. Butthe death
of the king or some other cause pre-
vented, in this case, their completion ;
though their unﬁnished condition, so
far from exciting our regret, affords
a satisfactory Opportunity of appre-
ciating the sltill of the Egyptian
draughtstnen.

The beautiful groups at the base of
the nest staircase were talten away by
M. Champollion. The subjects in
the succeeding passages refer mostly
to the liturgies, or ceremonies per-
formed to the deceased monarch.
In the square chamber beyond them
the king is seen in the presence of the
deities Athor, Horus, Anubis, his,
Osiris, Nofri-Atmoo, and Pthah.

The grand hall contains numerous
subjects, among which are a series of
mummies, each in its own repository,
whose folding.doors are thrown open;
and it is probable that all the parts of
these catacombs refer to different
states, through which the deceased
passed, and the various mansions of
Hades or Antenti. The representa-
tions of the door-valves at their en-
trance tend to conﬁrm this Opinion ;
while many ofthe sculptures seem to
relatetotha life andactionsoftheda-

nnncn’s, on me mat-en’s tone.

 

369

ceased, and to the mysteries of the
E ptian rites.

n the side chambersareaome m
terioua ceremonies connected w th
ﬁre, and various other subjects ; and
the transverse vaulted part of the grem
hall, or saloon of the unor-
namented with a profusion of sculp-
ture, isa termination worthy of tin
rest of this grand sepulcbral monu-
ment. in the chamber on the left,
with the broad bench, are various
subjects; some of which, especially
those appearing to repmnt human
sacriﬁces, may refer to the initiation
into the higher mysteries, by the sup-
posed death and regeneration of the
Neaphyte.

No. l l., called Bruce's, orde Hen-
psr's Iberia, is, front the nature, though
not from the execution, of the sub-
jects, of far greater interest than the
last mentioned. The monarch,whoae
name here occurs, is Remeses "1.,
but that of his father and predecessor
is traced beneath the ovals of Re-
meses, who appropriated and com-
pleted the subjects on its walls.

The line of direction in this cata—
comb, alter the ﬁrst ISO feet, is
interrupted by the vicinity of the
adjoining tomb, and makes in conse-
quence a slight deriation to the right,
of 13 feet, when it resumes the same
direction again for other 975, which
give it a total length of 405 feet.

its plan diﬂ'ers from that of No.
17, and the rapidity of its descent is
considerably less, being perpendicu-
larly only 3i feet.

The most interesting part is unques-
tionably the seriea of small chambers
in the two ﬁrst passages, since they
throw considerable light on the style
of the furniture and arms, and conse.
quently on the manners and customs
of the E ptians.

in we‘drst to the left (entering), is
the kitchen, where the principal
groups, though much defaced, may
yet be recognised. Some are engaged
in slaughtering oxen, and cutting up

a 5

