 

 

Egypt

On the shore are the tombs above-
mentioned, and the vestiges of solid
substructions, at the eastern and
western port; and it is easy to ob-
serve from the former, how great a
depremion of the land has taken place
here, many of them being now sub-

several feet below the water;
and this sufﬁciently counteracts, and
prevents, any advance of the Delta
into the sea. A similar depression
of the land is observable in many
parts of the Mediterranean ; while, in
others, greet elevations, or gradual up-

liftings of the ground, are found to .

have taken place, as at Classe near
Ravenna. at Arles, and elsewhere.
11.. same I have also observed on the
Red Sea at Sues, Aboodurrag, and
other places on the western coast,
where the land, strewed with recent
shells, is raised many feet above the
reach of the highest seas.

The excavations carried on, amidst
the mounds of the old town, now and
then bring to light a few relics, as
parts of statues, large columns, and
remains of masonry. which last, if
properly examined and planned at the
time, might serve as a guide to the
position of its ancient buildings; and
whoever has an opportunity would do
well to mark the site of ruins wherever
they are found.

Behind Signor Giberra's garden,
and towards the E. N. E. of the Creek
convent, are some large substructions,
with several granite columns of con-
siderahle sire, evidently belonging to
a very ﬁne ediﬁce; and behind Mr.
Cossiva‘s house. (at E) near the end of
the Frank Square, are other granite
columns. of smaller dimensions, some
of which are remarkable from being
clustered together in threes. '
last perhaps belonged to the Temple
of Arsino'é, whose obelisk nae re-
moved, in consequence of its being
in the way of the docks. There are
also some large columns, and exten-
sive brick substructions, as well as
stone vaults. at a short distance beyond
thisspot,ebout Hoofeetto the east

Roma 1. — Atamnnu — nana.

 

95

of the Seracenic tower, where the
basement of a large building is seen,
with remains of cisterns once beneath
the ground-ﬂoor.

About 600 or 700 feet behind the
obelisks, and in a line with the wall
of the Greek convent, are the vestiges
of buildings; and in this spot were
found a marble colossal foot, of good
Greek workmanship. sent by Mr.
Harris to the British Museum, and
part of a group. evidently representing
a Roman emperor, probably Trajan,
with Dacian captives at his feet.
From their place behind the obelisk,
and the latter group, it may be sup.
posed that the Ccsareum extended to
this spot; though from the number
of public buildings that stood here it
is diﬂlcult to ﬁx the precise limits of
any one.

At the end of a mound near the
road, between the mask of St. Athe-
nnsius and the Port of Napoleon (or,
as some call it, Fort Cretin), the ruins
ofa palacearelaid down in the French
plan. About the mouth of the canal
that runs into the new or eastern
harbour, are fragments of granite and
broken columns, with an appearance
of a paved street; and the course of
this canal runs in great part through
the walls and substructions of brick
buildings.

Other vestiges of mine appear to
the eastward; and near the coast in
that direction, beyond Cape Lochiaa
and the modern Leuaretto, are some
Arab tombs on an eminence or mound,
one of which belongs to e Santon,
called Shekh Shahtbek. I there
observed a broken sarcophagus and
fragments of columns; and below,
upon the beach, are masses of an old
well, and remains of what seems to
have been a bath. There are also
some black stones. apparently marking
the existence of a street or causewa ,
and several channels for water cut In'
the rock leading to the sea. as well as
arched brick-work, and other remains
of buildings. The rock is hewn into
the form of rooms and channels in

