 

312

the burial-places of the inhabitants of
Lycopolis. Though not containing
a great profusion of sculpture. they
are of considerable interest from their
antiquity, and some have the names of
very old kings. The view over the
town, and the green plain, in the
spring is very beautiful from these
tombs; particularly from the large
one, called by the modern Egyptians
Stab! Avatar.

The ceiling of this cstacomb has
been otnamented with very elegant
devices, which I suppose to be what
Denon alludes to, in speaking of
“ Greek scrolls.” It has an entrance
chamber, or porch, open to the air, cut
like the rest in the limestome rock,
and its roof is in the form of a vault.
In an inner room are sculptures re-
presenting men bringing an ibex and
various oﬁ‘erings; and at the end a
large ﬁgure of a man, and others of
women rather smaller, smelling the
lotus ﬂower, as was usual at the fes-
tive meetings of the Egyptians. It
has several chambers, which once
served as dwelling-places for the
peasants, who have not improved their
appearance by blackening them with
smoke. In the smaller caves and ex-
cavated recesses of the rock in various
parts of this mountain, the remains of
wolf mummies are frequently met
with; which is perfectly consistent
with the fact of the wolf having been
the sacred animal of the place, and
with the name given to the town by
the Greeks. The coins of the Lyso-
polite nome have also the wolf on
their reverse, with the word “ Lyco.”

The tombs are arranged in suc-
cessive tiers at diﬁ'etent eleva-
tions. They may be visited accord-
ing to their position, and a road
about four paces broad leads up the
hill. They are very numerous, but
many are without sculpture, and some
containing burnt bones appear to have
been occupied by the Romans at a
late period. Near the middle of the
ascent is some crude brick building;
and I observed a square pit lined with

some 22. — ostoor.

 

Sect-III.

burnt brick, very unusual in ancient
times, with a tablet or stels above on
the rock, much defaced. Some of the
small pits are very narrow, scarcely
broad enough for a man, and they
slope gradually, as if to allow the
comns to slide down into them.
Sometimes a tomb consists of a large
chamber with small niches or reposi-
tories for the dead, and in the ﬂoor
are the usual mummy pits.

In a tomb, about half way up the
hill is the name of a very old king,
and some soldiers carrying shields of
enormous size, diﬂ'eting both in this
respect, and a little in their shape,
from the common shield, but remark-
able as being similar to those men-
tioned by Xenophon in speaking of
the Egyptian troops in the army of
Creme. He says they amounted to
120,000 men, " carrying bucklers,
which covered them from head to foot,
very long spears, and swords called
nos-:66,” (shopslt) and each phalanx
was “ formed of 10,000 men, 100 each
way." It was ft om the protection given
them by these large shields, supported
as they were by a thong over the shoul-
der, and from their compact order of
battle, that the Persians were unable
to break them, when they had routed
the rest of the Lydian army. They
therefore obtained honourable terms
from Cyrus, and an abode in the
cities of Larissa and Cyllene, in the
neighbourhood of Cums near the sea,
which were still called the Egyptian
cities, and inhabited by their descen-
dants, in the time of Xenophon.

On the lower part of the bill are 5
standing statues, in high relief.
Many of the burnt bones I observed
were of wolves; and it is probable
that most of the smaller caves were
intended for depositing the mummies
of those sacred animals of Lycopolis,
which have since been purposely or
accidentally burnt.

The tombs on this mountain, like
most others in Egypt, were once the
abode of the Christians, who retired
thither either from persecution, or for

