 

“Egypt.

Behind the temple is a stone quay,
apparentlyof theisteera ofthe Pto-
lemiee. or Cwsars, since blocks bearing
the sculpture ofthe former have been
used in its construction. Opposite
the corner ofthe temtile it takes a
more easterly direction, and points out
the original courseof the river, which
continued acrossthe plain, now lying
between it and the ruins of Kernak,
and which may be traced by the
descent of the surface of that ground
it gradually deserted. The southern
extremity of the quay is of brick
(probably a Roman addition). and
indicates in like manner the former
direction of the stream; which now,
having hollowed out a space behind
it, threatens to sweep away the whole,
and to undermine the foundations of
the temple itself.

15. Keane.

The road to Kernel lies through
ﬁelds of 10de grass, indicating the
site of ancient ruins; and aahortdis-
tance to the right is a mound. with
the tomb of a sltekh relied Aboo
Jood ; a little beyond which. to the
south, are remains of columns and an
old well. Here and there, on ap-
proaching the temple, the direction
of the avenue (once a great street)
and the fragments of its sphinxes are
traced, in the bed of a small canal.
or watercourse, which the Nile,
during the inundation, appropriates
to its rising stream. To this succeeds
another dromos of Criosphinses, and
a majestic pylon of Ptolemy Ener-
getcs, with his queen and sister. Bere-
nice. who. in one instance. present
an offering to their predecessors and
parents, Philedelphus and Arsino'd.

n one of the compartments, within
the doorway, the king is represented
in a Greek costume; instances of
which are rare, even on Ptolema'ic
monuments. Another avenue of
sphinses estends to the towers or
propyla of the isolated temple behind
this pylon. which was founded by
Bemeses 1V., and continued by Be-

GRILT TRIPLE O? max.

 

 

889

meses VIII. and a late Pharaoh.
who added thehypwthrel area and its
towers. His name. and the exact
area at which he douriahed,-are not
precisely ascertained; but if, as is
very probable. we are authorised to
read Bocchoris. this part willdate in
the time ofthe twenty-fourth dynasty.
or about a.c. 810. Othernam-ep-
pear in diﬂerent parts of the bulld-
ing, among which arethose of Amyr-
twus and Alexander, on the inner and
outer gateways of the area.

The principal entrance of the grand
temple lies on the north-west aide.
or that facing the river. From a
raised platform commences an avenue
of Criosphinses leading to the front '
propyle. before which stood two
granite statues of a Pharaoh. One
ofthese towers retains agreetpertof
its original height, but has lost its
summit and cornice. In the upper
put their solid walls have been per-
forated through their whole breadth,
for the purpose of fastening the
timbers that secured the M
usually placed in front these
propyla; but no sculptures have ever
been added to either face, nor was the
surface yet levelled to receive them.

Passing throu h the pylon ofthese
towers, you arrive at a large open
court (or area), 275 feet by 329, with
a covered corridor on either side. and
a double line of columns down the
centre. Other propyla terminate this
area, with a small vestibule before
the pylon. and form the front of
the grand hall of assembly, the lintel
stones of whose doorway were 40 it.
10in. in length. The hall
measures I70 feet by 399. supported
by a central avenue of twelve massive
columns, 66 feet high (without the
pedestal and abacus) and 19 in
diameter; besides 128 of smaller. or
(rather) less gigantic dimensions. 41
feet 9 inches in height. and 97 feet
6 inches in circumference, distributed
inseven lineson either sideofthe
former. Thetvrelve central columns

were orighnlly .fgurteen, but the

