 

420

name of Ptolemy Epiphanes; and
that of Athor, which stands on the
east side. nearly in a line with the
front propylon, acquaints us with the
fact, that this small building was con-
secrated to the Egyptian Aphrodite,
by Physcon or the second Euergetes.
Though the hieroglyphic name is the
same as that of Philometor, it is evi—
dent that Physcon has here, as in
many other instances, adopted the
prenomen of his brother; and since
we ﬁnd him with the two Cleopatras,
his queens, it is plainly proved not to
be of l’hilometor.

Pb yscon seems to have been a great
benefactor of Philm; and, as is oﬂen
the case with a vicious despot, he in-
gratiated himself with the priesthood
as a cloak to his real character. It is
to him, too, that the petition of the
priests is addressed in the Greek in-
scription on the pedestal of the obe-
lisk, brought to England by Mr.
Bankes. The object of this curious
document was to prevent so many
persons of ranlr, and public function-
aries, visiting the island of Philte, and
living at the expense of the priests.
It is as follows:—

“ To King Ptolemy, and Queen
Cleopatra his sister, and Queen Cleo-
patra his wife, gods Eucrgetes, wel-
fare. We the priests of Isis, the very
great goddess [worshipped] in Abnton
and Philae; seeing that those who
visit Phile, generals, chiefs, gover.
nors of districts in the Theba‘id, royal
scribes, chiefs of police, and all other
functionaries, as well as their soldiers
and other attendants, oblige us to
provide for them during their stay;
the consequence of which is, that the
ternple is impoverished, and we run
the risk of not having enough for the
customary sacriﬁces and libations of-
fered for you and your children; do
therefore pray you, 0 great gods, if
it seem right to you, to order Nume-
nius, your cousin and secretary, to
write to Lochus, your cousin, and
governor of the Theba'id, not to dis-
turb us in this manner, and not to

some 29. —PM.

 

 

Sect. IV.

allow any other person to do so, and
to give us authority to this chat;
that we may put up a data, with an
inscription commemorating your be-
niﬁcence towards us on this occasion.
so that your gracious favour may be
recorded for ever; which being done,
we, and the temple of Isis, shall be
indebted to you for this, among other
favours. Hail.”

Above, on the same pedestal, was
painted (probably in gilt letters), the
answer to the petition, followed by a
copy of the order from the king to
Lochus. Little more than half of
them remains; but restored by M.
Letronne, they read as follows: —

“ To the priests of Isis in Abaton
and Philc, Numenius, cousin and
secretary, and priest of the god Alex-
ander, and bf the gods Soters, of the
gods Adelphi, of the gods Eucrgetes,
of the gods Philopntores, of the gods
Epiphunes, of the god Eupator, of
the god Philometor, and of the gods
Euergetes, greeting. 0f the letter
written to Lochus, the cousin and
general, we place the cepy here be-
low; and we give you the permission
you ask, of erecting a stale. Fare ye
well. In the year . . . of Panemus,
. . . of Pachon 26."

Order of the king.— “ King Pto-
lemy, and Queen Cleopatra the
sister, and Queen Cleopatra the wife,
toLochus our brother, greeting: of the
petition addressed to us by the priests
of Isis in Ahaton and Philat, we place
a copy below; and you will do well
to order that on no account they be
molested in those matters which they
have detailed to us. Hail."

At the southern extremity of the
corridor is another small chapel, de-
dicated to Athor, by Nectanebo of
the thirtieth dynasty, who ruled Egypt
after the ﬁrst Persian invasion, and
previous to its ﬁnal reduction by
Ochus. And from the principal
pylon of the great temple bearing the
name of this Pharaoh, it is evident
that an ancient ediﬁce formerly stood
on the site of the present one, which

