 

l2 nonunum an. Sect. I.

Hanem, widow of Moharrem Bey; she afterwards became mother of Toos-
seam and Ismail Pasha. Mobammed Ali after his marriage continued to
hold the same oliice in the governor‘s household; and though he may have
entered into speculations in trade, like many Turkish soldiers, he never quitted
the military profession; and when, in l799, Ciwala was required to furnish a
contingent of 300 men for the army of the Viseer, then levying to oppose the
French in Egypt, he was sent with them, and soon afterwards obtained the rank
of Bimhashi. His condpct on several occasions, when engaged with the
French, merited and obtained the approbation of the comtnander-in-chief, par-
ticularly at the battle of Abookir; and when attached with a corps of Turks,
to part of the British army, be attracted the notice of several of our omcers
by his courage and activity in the ﬁeld.

At the period of the evacuation of Egypt by the French, he had attained
the rank of Sar-cheshmeb, Brigadier- General, and his courage having gained
for him the admiration, as his manners the aﬂ'ection of the army, he soon felt
himself possessed of an instrument for increasing his inﬂuence in the country,
of which he was not slow in taking advantage. The discontent of the troops,
in consequence of long arrears of pay, had already begun to manifest itself,
when a threatening message of Khosrow Pasha to Mohammed Ali, was the
signal for open rebellion. They looked upon him to be the defender of their
rights; and since he had displayed great anxiety for their welfare. they were
ready to protect him from the anger of the viceroy ; and the rest of the army,
when called upon to quell the mutiny, and seise the rebellious chief, was too
much interest in his safety not to join in his defence. Thus strengthened
in the aﬂ‘ections of the army, his career became more and more successful;
Kbosrow, and his successor Khoorshid Pasha. were expelled from Egypt;
and on the payment of a large sum to the Ports, Mohammed Ali was ap-
pointed to the Pashalic in 1806.

In the spring of 1807, our unfortunate expedition to Egypt under General
Fraser took place; the result of which is well-known : and the triumph then
gained by Mohammed Ali over an enemy, who had attempted to interfere in
a province of the Ottoman Empire, obtained for him fresh support at Con-
stantinople. Many of the Memloolts also thought it a favourable opportunity
for courting his friendship. This invasion, and the necessity of putting the
sea-coast intoabetter state of defence, gave him an opportunity of ridding
himself of the unwelcome interference of the Captain-Pasha; which, had it
continued, would have stood greatly in the way of those projects he afterwards
devised. Alexandria was fortiﬁed, and garrisoned by his own troops; and
thus strengthened at home, his thoughts were free to occupy themselves on
more distant projects. But ere that could be done, it was necessary to crush
the remaining power of the Memlooks. With this view a large force was
sent into Upper Egypt; and, after various encounters, a truce was agreed
upon between the Pasha and the Beys, who were even admitted to the capital.

The deliverance of the Holy Land of Arabia from the Wahabees, who had
taken possession of Mecca and Medina, was the nest object of Mohammed
Ali's wishes. The only impediment was the fear of leaving Egypt exposed to
tbeintrigues of the Murdoch. They, on the other hand, looked with eag'er
anxiety for the opportunity which the absence of the Turks would aﬂ‘ord
them, of regaining their power, and of destroying the man whose talents had
defeated all their plans. '

It was a question, which should perform the first successful act of treachery.
The failure of one led the way to the other. While at Sues, snperintending the
preparations for the Arabian expedition, Mohammed Ali received a letter from

