Earp!»

neetedwitbthemain land byadyke,
and on a rock close to its extremity
w-builttbe famoustower ofPharos.
But the description given of it by
Homer, and the error respecting its

distance from the shore l
shll have occasion to mention pre-
eeutly.

Alexander, on arriving there, see-
ing how eligible a spot this natural
hrbour oﬂ'ered for building a city,
lost no time In making arrangements
for its commencement. The plan
wasdrawn out, and Dinner-ates, the
architect, was commissioned to build
the new city, which. from its founder,
received the name of Alexandria.

“ The future prosperity of this
city,” continues the GeogIapher, “ is
reported to have been foreshown by a
remarkable sign, manifested during
the operation of ﬁxing Its plan. For,
whilst the architect was marking out
the lines upon the ground, the chalk
be used happened to be exhausted,
upon which the king, who was pre-
sent at the time, ordered the ﬂour
destined for the workmen‘s food to be
ernployed in its stead, thereby en-
abling him to complete the outline of
many of the streets. This occurrence
was deemed a good omen ;" and pre-
vious to prosecuting his journey to the
Oasis he had the satisfaction of «it-
nessing the commencement of this
flourishing city, a. c. 323. Strabo
then enumerates the advantages of its
site, and describes the position of some
of its public buildings. “ lt poe-
semes," he says, “ advantages of more
than one kind. Two sees wash it on
both sides, one on the north, deno-
minated the Egyptian, the other on
the south, which is the Lake Mares,
called also Mereotis. The latter is
fed by several canals from the Nile,
as well from above as from the sides;
and by it many more things are brought
to Alexandria than by the sea. so that
the port on the lake side is richer
than that on the coast. By this, also,
more is exported from Alexandria
than imported into it, which any one

noun 1. — amazement — armour.

 

 

'-
0‘

who has been at Alexandria and
Diccarcbia must have perceived, in
looking at the merchant ships trading
to and ﬂu, and comparingthe cargoes
that enter and leave those two ports.
Besides the wealth that pours in on
either side, both by the seaport and
the lake, the salubrity of the air should
also be noticed, which is caused by the
peninsular situation of the place, and
by the opportune rising of the Nile.
Other cities situated on lakes have a
heavy and suffocating atmosphere
during the summer heats, and. in con-
sequence of the evaporation caused by
the sun, the banks of those lakes be-
coming marshy, a noxious exhalation
is generated, which produces pestilen-
tial fevers; but at Alexandria the in-
undation of the Nile ﬁlls the lake in
the summer season, and by preventing
its becoming marshy, effectually checks
any unwholesome vapours. At that
time, also, the Etesian winds, owing
from the northward and passink over
so much sea, secure to the A exan-
drians a moat delightful summer.

“ The site of the city has the form
of a (Macedonian) mantle, whose two
longest sides are bathed by water to
the extent of nearly 30 stadia, and its
breadth is 7 or 8 stadia, with the see
on one side and the lake on the other.
The whole is intersected e ith spacious
streets, through which horses and cha-
riots pass freely , but two are of
greater breadth than the rest. being
upwards of a plelltrara wide, and these
intersect each other at right angles.
Its temples, grand public buildrn
and palaces occupy a fourth or a lb”
of the whole extent: for every suc-
cessive king. aspiring to the honour of
eInbellishing these consecrated monu-
ments, added somethin of his own
to what already esiste . All these
parts are not only connected with
each other, but with the port and the
buildings that stand outside of it.

“ Part of the palace is called the
museum. It has corridors. a court,
and a very large mansion. in which ls

, the banqueting room of those learned

