 

 

 

Em!-

heblytbe veryonethatexistedinthe
days of the geographer, judging both
from its style of building and from
the little likelihood of thetr forsaking
aplace “fortiﬁed by nature” for an-
other; and novestigea of any other
Roman ruin are to bemet within
the neighbourhood.

These Babylonians, according to
Diodorus. were descendants of cap-
tives taken by Sesostris: some sup-
pose themto have been left by Se-
miramis in Egypt; and others say
the town was not founded until the
time o! Cambyses. Some, again, pre-
tend that the fort was ﬁrst built by
Artaxerxes, while Egypt was in the
poems-ion of the Persians. Strabo
asserts that these Babylonians wor-
shipped the Cynocephalus, which
throws great doubt upon his assertion
of the town having been founded by
foreigners, and would rather lead to
the conclusion that it was Egyptian ;
for it is more probable that those
strangers were allowed to live there,
as the Funk now are in a quarter
of a Turkish city. than that they were
presented by the kings with a strong
position for the erection of a fortress.

The mask of timer is of square
form, as were all the eatly moslts, ex-
cept those which had been originally
churches‘; and it is somewhat simi-
lar in plan to the mosh of 'l'ayloén.
with colonnades round an open court.
At the west end is a single line ot‘
columns; at the two sides they are
three deep, and at the east end in six
rows, the total amounting to no less
than 229 or 230, two being coveted
.wtth masonry. Others ate also built
Into the outer wall, to support the
erIt or platform of the Italltlt'a;
and the octagon in the centte of the
open court is surrounded by eight
columns. Many ltave fallen down,
and time and neglect will soon can“!
the destruction: of the whole butldtng.
it has three doors on the east side,
out the southernmost of which is I

OLD CAIRO.

 

 

159

minaret, and another at the southeast
corner.

At that early time the Arabs were
contented with humble imitations
of Roman architecture, and round
arches, with small round-headed win-
dows, were introduced into all their
sacred buildings. Here, therefore,
we ﬁnd that the arches are all round,
except in some parts more recently
added; and the small portion that
remains of the original structure suf-
ﬁces to show how simple Saracenic
architecture was at its commencement.

The mosh has undergone several
repairs, and in Murad Bey's time,
who was the last restorer of its crumb-
ling walls, some Cuﬁc M88. were
discovered, while excavating the sub-
structions, written on the ﬁnest parch-
ment. The origin of their discovery,
and the cause of these repairs, are
thus telated.by M. Marcel: “ Illurad
Bey being destitute of the means. of
carrying on the war against his rtval
Ibrahim, sought to replenish his cof-
lers by levying a large sum from the
Jews of Cairo. To escape from hts
exactions, they had recourse to stra-
tagem. After assuring him they had
not a single para, they pronused, on
condition of abstaining from ltts de-
mands, to reveal a secret whtch
would make him possessor of. un-
tnense wealth. His word was gtven,
and they assured him that certatn
archives mentioned a large tron chest,
deposited in the tnoslt of Amer, either
by its founder or by one of hts suc-
cessors in the government of ERIN.
which was ﬁlled with tnyaluable
treasure. Murad Bey went tmmedt-
ately to the mosh, and, under they“?
of repairs, excavated the spot ludi-
cated by his informant”. where, in
fact, he found a secret underground
chamber, containing an tron chest,
half destroyed by rust, and lull—not
of gold—but of manuscript leaves
of the Koran, on vellum of a beau-
tiful quahty, written in In. Cole

' This saves wasacbereh,asse-ehareI-s¢htetl._

