 

niv INTRODUCTION.

obliged every now and then to inspect the rooms, to see that the
things have been laid out and properly exposed to the air. Great
care must be taken to avoid touching any one not in quarantine, as
he would be condemned to pass the same number of days in the
lazaretto as the person so compromising him, who would have to
pay all his expenses; and these he might increase to any amount,
in revenge for his conﬁnement. Equal care should be taken not to
come in contact with any new comer, after a portion of the quaran-
tine is over ; as the person touched would be doomed to an additional
imprisonment, or the same number of days that the other had still
to keep quarantine.

As things cannot be sent to the wash out of the lazaretto, it is
necessary to engage a washerwoman from the town, unless the
traveller has a servant who can perform this oﬁce. The washer-
woman is, of course, subject to the same number of days' quaran-
tine that remain to be performed by her employer, aﬁer the time of
her coming into the lazaretto. She is paid ls. 8d. a day; and for
soap and labour, according to the things washed. If a party join
together, they may share the expenses.

The total expense of quarantine, for living, furniture, guardians,
one servant, a washerwoman during the whole time (which is un-
necessary), letters, coﬂ‘ee, fruit, and other extras for lunch or supper,
for' one person is about 111. 103., without wine. For two persons,
or a party, less, or about 91.; for a large party much less, or be-
tween 61. and 71. each, the guardians then being charged only 11:. 4d.
each person.

Visits may be received during the day, at the parlatorio from
8 a. m, or even 6 a. m, till sunset. The parties stand at a barrier,
separated from each other about 10 feet; but, as a favour, they are
sometimes permitted to sit in the adjoining court, a certain distance
apart, attended by a guardiano, to see that they do not touch each
other, or pass anything out of quarantine.

A person who is alone, and can ﬁndfriends willing to join him in his
conﬁnement, may obtain quarters for them in the lazaretto. Another
privilege is being allowed to bathe in the sea every morning from
6 till 8, under the surveillance of a guardiano.

0n taking pratique, you have only to send your things down to a
boat, and across the harbour to the Mares Muchétt stairs, from
which they will be carried by porters to the hotel. For taking them
from the rooms in the lazaretto to the boat, you pay according to
the quantity of luggage. For two boxes and two portmanteaus, for
instance, 1:. 6d., which is ample. The boatmen will probably en-
deavour to impose on a stranger, but he should remember that the

