 

 

 

En lishman, tall, in a Frank dress of
a b k colour, with a white hand-
ksrchief round his neck, wearing black
boots and white stockings, light or
yellow hair, blue eyes, no heard, no
mustaches, hut whiskers; with black
gloves on his hands, and a low ﬂat
black hat." He was then asked how
he walked. M. “Tell him to walk."—
B. “ He stretches out his leg far, and
puts his hands to his sides in his
trousers pockets.” Someone asked if
he stepped out equally with both legs?
and the boy replied, “ He puts them
out both equally."

He was then sent away, and ano-
ther boy was brought, who had never
before seen the magician, having been
chosen with another by Mr. Lewis on
purpose. The ink being put into his
hand he was asked if he saw the re-
ﬂection of his face; and having an-
swered in the afﬁrmative, he was told
to say when he saw any thing; but
after many incantations, incense, and
long delay, he could see nothing, and
fell asleep over the ink.

The other boy was then called in,
but he, like the last, could not be made
to see any thing; and a fourth was
brought, who had evidently often acted
his part before. He ﬁrst saw a sha-
dow, and was ordered to “ tell him
to sweep," and after the ﬂags and the
sultan as usual, some one suggested
that Lord Fitzroy Somerset should be
called for. lie was described in a
white Frank dress,a long (high) white
hat, black stockings, and white gloves,
tall, and standing before him with Nod
boots. I asked how he could scehis
stockings with boots? The boy an-
swered “under his trowsers." He
continued, “ llis eyes are white. no
mustache-s. no heard. but little whis-
kers, and yellow (light) hair; he is
thin, thin legs, thin arms; in his left
hand he holds a stick, and in the other
a pipe; he has a black handkerchief
round his neck, his tlnoat buttoned
up; his tronsers are long; he wears
gteen spectacles. " The magician
seeing some of the party nailing at

THE nGICIAN.

 

153

the description and its inaccuracy, said
to the boy, “ Don’t tell lies, boy.”
To which he answered, “1 do not,
why should I?”—M. “ Tell him to
go.”— B. “ Go.”

Queen Victoria was neat called for.
who was described as short, diessed in
black trowseta, tt white hat, black
shoes, white gloves, red coat with red
lining, and black waistcoat, with whis-
kers, but no heard nor mustaches, and
holding in his hand a glass tumbler.
He was asked if the person was a man
or a woman ? he answered, “ a man. "
We told the magician it wasour queen l
He said, “ I do not know why they
should say what is false; I knew she
was a woman, but the boys describe
as they see.”

From the manner in which the
questions we put, it is very evident
that when a boy is persuaded to see
any thing, the appearances of the
sweeper, the ﬂags, and the sultan, are
the result of leading questions. The
boy pretends or imagines he sees a
man or a shadostr, and he is told to
order some one to sweep: he is there-
fore prepared with his answer; and the
same continues to the end, the magi.
cian always telling him what he is to
call for, and consequently what he is
to see. The descriptions of persons
asked for are almost universally com-
plete failures, and the exceptions may,
i think, be explained in this manner.
A person with one arm is called for,
as Loud Nelson; while described,
questions are put by those present as
to this or that peculiarity, and the mere
question, “ "as he one or two arms ?"
will suilice to prompt a boy of any
quickness to say. " No, I see he has
only one ;" and when asked which he
has lost, he must be right, as the ma.
gician has the wit, if wrong, to say
“ he sees him as in a mirror;" and
the same unintentional hints, aided
sometimes by an interpreter, have,
doubtless, led to the few striking do.
scriptions which have been given.
Indeed, though every one had agreed
to avoid any thing which might lead

a 5

