U.Egypt.

the centre, and other similar corps
form the wings and rear. They are
again summoned by sound of trumpet
to the attack of another Asiatic
enemy, and in the neat compartment
the Egyptian monarch gives orders
for the charge of the hostile army
drawn up in the open plain. Assisted
by their allies, the Shairetana, a
maritime people armed with round
bucklen and spears, they fall upon
the undisciplined troops of the enemy,
who, after a short conﬂict, are routed,
and retreat in great disorder. The
women endeavour to escape with their
children on the ﬁrst approach of the
Egyptians, and retire in plaustra
drawn by osen. The ﬂying chariots
denote the greatness of the general
panic, and the conquerors pursue
them to the interior of the country.
Here, while passing a large morass,
the king is attacked by several lions,
one of which, transfixed with darts
and arrows, he lays breathless be-
neath his horse’s feet; another attempts
to fly towards the 'ungle, but, re-
ceiving a last an fatal wound,
writhes in the agony of approaching
death. A third springs up from be-
hind his car, and the hero prepares to
receive and check its fury with his
spear. Below this group is repre-
sented the march of the Egyptian
army. with their allies, the Shaitetana,
the Sha’ ' ', and a third corps, armed
with clubs, whose form and character
are very imperfectly preserved.

The enemy, having continued their
rapid retreat. take refuge in the ships
of a maritime nation, to whose
country they have retired for shelter.
The Egyptians attach them with a
ﬂeet of galleys, which in their shape
diﬂ'er essentially from those used on
the Nile. The general form of the ves-
sels ofboth combatants is very similar:
a raised gunwale, protecting the
rowers from the missiles ofthe foe, es-
tends from the head to the stern, and
a lofty poop and forecastle contain
reth a body ofarchers; but the head
of a lion, which ornaments the prows

BATTLE SCENES.

 

 

859

of the Egyptian galleys, serves to dis-
tinguish them from those of the
enemy. The former bear down their
opponents, and succeed in hoarding
them and taking several prisoners.
One of the hostile galleys is upset,
and the diapers in the shrouds, with
the archers and speaomen on the
prows, spread dismay among the few
who resist. The king, trampling on
the prostate bodies of the enemy,
and aided by a corps of bowmen,
discharges from the shore a con-
tinued shower of arrows ; and
his attendants stand at a short
distance with his chariot and horses,
awaiting his return. Below this
scene the conquering army leads in
triumph the prisoners of the two
nations they have captured in the
naval light, and the amputated bands
of the slain are laid in heaps before
the military chiefs. Though this
custom suvours of barbarians, the
humanity of the Egyptians is very
apparent in the above conﬂict; where
the soldiers on the shore and in the
ships do their utmost to rescue their
enemies from a watery grave.

The lake here represented is pro-
bably one of the inland seas or lakes
in Asia. And it is highly probable
that the war against such distant na-
tions was the occasion of the revolt of
the Tochari, part of whom had served
with the Egyptians against the Bebe.
But the complete success of Remessa
over his enemies necessarily led to the
punishment of the Tochari, whoa
defection at such a crisis justly es-
cited the vengeance of the Egyptians;
and their immediate defeat and sub-
sequent dight to a neighbouring tribe
prove (and very satisfactorily has the
artist conveyed an idea of this fact to
the spectator) that they had notthe
same power of resisting the yoke of
their masters, as the maritime nation,
on whose successful opposition to the
Egyptians they had founded the hopes
of their own safety. Thus may we
account for their being. in one in.
stance, the allies of the Egyptians

