 

 

U. Egypt. mamm- DIVISIONS or nom' 273

or w, and in the time o! the Memlooks, the whole country was
governed by twenty-four beys, including the Delta.

5. panorama-trons or rowns, are.

The or market, towns of Egypt have the title of Bender. Madurai
is a “capital,” and is applied to Cairo, and the capital of the Fyoom.
Bead, or Beled, is the usual appellation of a “ town;" whence Eba W,
“ son of a town," or “ townsman.” Kafr is a village: Nealeh, or Neale, a
village founded by the people of another place, as Nealet e1 Feat. Miaiels
(corrupted into Mit, particularly in the Delta) is also applied to villa es
colonised from other places. Berri, “ the sons,” is given to those founged

a tribe, or family, as Bani Amran, “ the sons of Amt-an," and then many
villages in the district are often included under the same name. Zoto’ydr is a
hmlet, having a mask. _l_(_asr, or k_usr, is a “ palace," or any large building.
Boom is a “ tower” (like the Greek Home); and it is even applied tothe
pigeon-houses built in that form. W, a level spot, or opening in the bank,
where the river is accessible from the plain. Met-eel, an anchoring place, or
harbour. Doyr is a “ convent,” and frequently points out a Christian village.
Ko- ia a “mound," and indicates the site of an ancient town, and Tel is
commonly used in the Delta in the same sense. Kiwi-db and Koofrer are
applied to “ ruins." Beer-6d, or Birbell (which is taken from the Coptic),
signiﬁes a “ temple." Wadee, or Warly, is a “ valley; ”Ge’bel, a “ mountain ;"
and Birbdn, a “ lake," or a “ reach " in the Nile.

C. ANCIENT DIVIIIONI OF 30"".

In the time of the Pharaohs, Egypt consisted of two great regions. the
upper and lower country, both of equal con uence, from which the kings
derived the title of Lord of the two Regions. Each of these had its peculiar
crown, which the monarch at his coronation put on at the same time, showing
the ual rank of the two states, while tht y seem to argue the existence of
two distinct kingdoms at an early period.

Egypt was then divided into thirtyaix nomes (departments, or counties),
from Syene to the sea. In the time of the l’tolemies and early Cesare, this
number still continued the same; “ ten,” says Strabo, “ being assigned to
the Theba'id, ten to the Delta, and sixteen to the intermediate province.”
The geographer adds, “ some say there were as many nomes as chambers in
the labyrinth, which were under thirty. These were again subdivided into
taper-chic, and these too into smaller portions." The number of chambers in
the labyrinth is not quite certain: Herodotus, Pliny, and Strabo, do not
agree on this point; and it is probable, that as the number of the names
increased, other places were added for their reception; the labyrinth being
the building where the names met, and each had its own apartment. Pliny
gives forty-four names to all Egypt, some of which are mentioned under
other names.

The triple partition of the country described by Strabo, varied at another
time, and consisted of Upper and Lower Egypt, with an intermediate

rosince, containing only seeea names, and thence called lleptanomis.
pper Egypt or the Thebs‘id then reached to the Thebaica Phylace
Own). now Daroot e' Sheréel'; lieptanomis thence to the fork of the
lta; and the rest was comprehended in Lower Egypt. in the time of the
later lloman emperors, the Delta or Lower Egypt was divided into four
provinces or districts— Augustamniea Prime and Secunda, and Egyptus
Prime and Secunda; being still subdivided into the same names: and In the

It 5

