 

U. Egypt.‘ noon 22. -— seaos anramos—mmoﬂ. 299

ﬁnished; but on one of the jamhs is
a ﬁgure of Pasht. In the doorway
or passage leading to the mos. are
two recesses, cut in the side wall,
which, if not of later date, may have
been intended as burying-places for
thesacred animals. Thereareothers
in the portico.

The only ﬁnished sculptures are on
the inner wall of the portioo. They
are of the early time alrcad men-
tioned, and therefore of a g period
of Egyptian art; but they vary in
style, some being in relief, others in
intaglio. On one side Thothmes I".
is making oﬁ'erings to Pasht and
Thoth; on the other Osirei is kneel-
ing before Amun, attended by Pasht;
and, in a line of hieroglyphics behind
him, mention is made of the sculp-
tures added by him in honour of
“ his mother Pasht, the beautiful
lady of the Specs.” In the portico,
one of those singular changes appears,
to which i have so often invited the
attention of those who examine the
ancient Egyptian monuments. The
name Atnun has been introduced in-
stead of other hieroglyphics; and
that this has been done in the time of
king Osirei is evident from the fact
of its being in intaglio like his name,
which has been substituted for that
of Thothmes. Changes have also
been made in the legends over some
of the twelve deities seated on the
left of the picture, which have been
altered by Osirei in intaglio.

Pasht occurs again twice over the
door, and once in the doorway of
the naos. She has always the head
of a lioness, and the title, “ Lady of
the excavation " or " S "

On the face of the melt, over the
facade of the portico, are some lines
of hieroglyphies. 'l'here ate several
pits and smaller grottoes on this and
on the opposite side of the valley,
where lions and cats, the animals
particularly sacred to l’asht, were
probably buried. In some of them
the bones of cats, and even dogs, are
said to have been discovered.

 

At SM ﬂan, are some esta-
comhs and limestone quarries, and
traces of the crude brick wall of Gia-
el Agnes are seen on the low hills
near the river. The story of it here
is, that a queen built it to protect her
son ftom thecrocodiles—afairspeci-
men of Arab tradition.

I found no sculptures in the sa-
carated tombs of Shelth Timay, and
nothing worth the trouble of a walk
to the hills; however great an in-
terest may be felt by the people in
the sacred rags that adorn or disﬁgura
the reputed abode of the Shehh e’
Dalter, whose lamp is kept burning
in a recess in the rock, and who is
said to be the patron of the mountain.
as Shelth Timay is the presiding saint
of the town.

Astiaoe'. — Four miles above Shekh
Timay are the ruins of Aatisoé'. or An-
tinoiipolis, built by Adrian, and called
after his favourite, Antinoiis. He had
accompanied the Emperor to Egypt,
and, having been dtowned in the
Nile, this city was founded near the
spot, and games and sactiflces were
instituted in his honour. Before
reaching Antinoii, you pass some
crude brick remains, and afterwards
a hill with some ruins, which I shall
mention presently. The modern name
of Antino'é is Shelth Ab‘deh, given
it, seem ding to \Vansleb, from a
Mosh-m who was converted to Chris.
tianity, and afterwaids. under the
name of Atnmonius cl nbed (“the
Decca! ") sulfered martyrdom there.
it is also called Ansina or lnsina,
and Medéenet Oiitholee, in Coptic
Antnoon ; and the old town of Ani-
noii itself succeeded to one of earlier
time, which some suppose to have
been the ancient Bess, famed for its
oracle. Ammianus Maroellinusplaces
Bess in the vicinity of Abydugthough
the combined name of Besantinoo'po-
lis, given to the former. seems con-
clusive evidence of its teal position;
and some suppose that a village, called
Ahydus. stood here. Mr. Hamilton
seemstoplacsthssiteof Baaaatthe

o 6

