 

. -..__..._.— .-...—-—-.-

140

at a cafe in the street where the
Bash-agha resides. The perform-
ances are not remarkable for decency.
Karogioos sometimes exhibits many
strange feats, which he pretends to
have performed, during his career; in
his satirical sallies he spares neither
rank, age, nor sex; and until a com-
plaint was made to the government,
the licentiousneas of these Satan-dis
was so gross, that it would have
shocked an ancient Greek audience,
though accustomed to the plays of
Aristophanes.

I. “1'88.

There are many'haths in Cairo, but
none remarkable for siae or splendour.
They are all vapour baths; and their
heat, the system of shampooing, and
the operation of rubbing with horse-
hair gloves, contribute not a little to
cleanliness and comfort; though it is
certainly disagreeable to be pulled
about by the bathing men. The
largest bath is the Tumbalee, near the
gate called Bab e’ Sltaré'e’h, but it is
less clean and comfortable than many
others. One person, or a party, may
take a whole bath to themselves alone,
if they send beforehand and make
an agreement with the master. In
that case, care should be taken to see
that the whole is well cleaned out, and
fresh water put into the tank, or
insulates. You had always better use
your own towels, or promise an
extra fee for clean ones, which you
cannot be too particular in rejecting,
if at all of doubtful appearance. The
baths at Cairo are on the same prin-
ciple as those of Constantinople,
though inﬁrior in size.

t. ILAVI master.

The slave market, Okélet e' Gelib,
is no longer one of the sights of Cairo;
the black slaves are kept at the Kaitbay
outside the town, and the Circassians,
Georgians, and Greeks, as well as
most of the Abyssinians, are in the
private houses of the dealers.

CAIRO. —-BATIIS —- BAZAARS.

Sect. II.

It may be hoped that a far more
important change will eventually take
place, in the abolition of slavery
altogether; and it is gratifying to
feel that England's interference has
already had the happy result of
putting a stop to the slave hunts in
the interior.

a. sasLsaa—rarcas or ooons.

Bastian—The principal headers
are the Ghoréiih and Khan Khaléel.
The former is called from Sultan el
Ghoree, whose mosk and tomb termi-
nate and embellish one of its extre-
mities. There cottons, stuffs, silks,
Fez caps, and other articles are
sold; and in Khan Khaléel (which,
as I have shown, occupies the
site of the Caliphs‘ tombs) cloth,
dresses, swords, silks, slippers, and
embroidered staffs, are the principal
articles. The two market days at the
latter bazaar are Monday and Thurs-
day, the sale continuing from about 9
till ll. Various goods are sold by anc—
tion, the appraisers or delléls (dellalia),
carrying them through the market,
and calling the price bid for them.
Many things may be bought at very
reasonable prices on those occasions;
and it is an amusing scene to witness
from a shop; where. if in the habit of
dealing with the owner, a stranger is
always welcome, even though in a
Frank costume. Crowds of people
throng the bazaar, while the delléle
wade through the crowd, carrying
drawn swords, fly-ﬂaps, silk dresses,
chain armour, amber mouth-pieces,
guns, and various heterogeneous sub-
stances.

Formerly the only dollar in the
Khan Khaléel were Turks, but now
natives are admitted to vociferate the
prices in bad Turkish. or even Ara-
bic, and the owner of the thing to he
sold frequently goes himself to the
barrier, to save the expense of a hired
appraiser. In every case, however, 5
per cent. is paid to government, on the
sale of each article.

