 

14 nommn am. Sect. I.

overjoyed to see him, and his ﬁrst question was respecting his escape. “ I
disguised myself a women,” said the Memlook. “ Howl—With that
voice and that beard ?" I am sure I should have discovered you.” “ I think
not,” was the reply; and the conversation then turned to other matters.

A few days after this, a stranger dressed in the usual veil and block
W of the Cairene women appeared before the Pasha, complaining of
ill-treatment from her husband. He pronounced judgment in the case, and
orders were given that the injured wife should he relieved from her husband’s
injustice; when the complainant, throwing up the veil and disclosing the
face of a man, asked the Pasha if he acknowledged himself deceived by the
voice end appearance of Soolsyman Agha. This incident was the cause of

merriment to the Pasha and his Memlook friend.

It is surprising that the Memlooks, versed in and accustomed to all the
artiﬁces of treachery, as they had ever been, should have fallen into a similar
trap, which Mohammed Ali himself had shortly before avoided, when invited
by Khoorshid to the citadel to receive the pelisse and title of Pasha ofJudda ;
and it is probable that, like a chess-player too intent on his own game, they
overlooked the intended move of their adversary, from being too sure of their
own success.

The destruction of the principal Memloolts leﬁ Mohammed Ali free to
prosecute the war he contemplated; and in the autumn of 1811, the arm
was sent to Arabia. The young Toossoom, his son, took the common ,
assisted by the ablest of his father's generals; but he received a severe check
from the velour of the Wahebees; and it was not till 1818 that Ibrahim Pasha
succeeded in taking the capital of the Draé‘éh.

Abdallah, the son of Siéod, was made prisoner; end having been sent to
Constantinople, was there beheaded in 1819, after having been exposed to
the gaze of the people and every insult; and the other chiefs were taken to
E311“. to be kept as hostages for the future tranquillity of Arabia.

In the year 1890, an expedition was sent into Ethiopia under Isma'il
Pasha, with orders to annex the kingdoms and provinces of Dongola, Dar-
Shéke'éh, Berber, Shendy, Senudr, Kordol'en, and the intermediate districts,
to the Turkish empire. Nubia, between the ﬁrst and second cataract, had
been previously overcome by Ibrahim Pasha, when driving before him the
Memlooks, who had passed through it, on their way south in 1811. The
present expedition had for its pretext the pursuit of those enemies of the
Pasha, who had taken refuge with the Mek of Shéndy, and were said to
threaten the tranquillity of Egypt. But the real motive of the expedition
originated in far eeper views. The turbulent spirit of the Albanians and
Turks precluded the possibility of introducing Mohammed Ali's favourite
project of European tactics : the removal of all the most obnoxious spirits
was the only means of overcoming their opposition; and the conquest of
those countries promised increase of wealth, power, and renown. His in-
tention was to send a large force into Upper Ethiopia, and bring from thence
a body of Blacks, to be disciplined, and formed into Nizcim, or regular troops,
in some out-of-the-way place unobserved by the Turks; who too could not
object to this system being adopted towards foreigners, and could forsee in it
no danger to their own importance.

For this purpose be employed Colonel Séve (now Soolayman Pasha), a
French otiicer of great military talents, who had ﬂed from France at the time
of the Restoration in 1815; and having established a military school at
Asouen in 1820, under the direction of Mohammed Bey Les, sent 500 of his

