 

206

bull ﬁghts, the animals being trained
for the purpose by persons who are
like the breeders of horses; and hav-
in ion t together, the reward is
adgud to the victor. At Mem-
phis is also a temple of Venus, sup-
posed to be a Greek goddess. Some
believe it to be dedicated to the moon.
There is also a Serapeum ” (or temple
of Sarapis) “ in a very sand spot,
where drifts of sand are raise by the
wind, to such a degree that we saw
some sphinses buried up to their
heads, and others half covered. From
this circumstance any one :may judge
of the danger of being overtaken
thereb a whirlwind of sand. The
city is arge and populous, neat to
Alexandria in size, and, like that,
tilled with foreign residents. Before
it are some lakes; but the palaces,
situated once in an elevated spot, and
reaching down to the lower part of
the city, are now ruined and deserted.
Contiguous are the rove and lake.”
. . . . “ Beyond emphis (to the
southward) is the city of Acanthus,
with a temple of Osiris, and a grove
of Theban acanthus trees, which pro-
duce um; after which is the Aphro-
ditopo ite nome, and a city of that
name on the Arabian (eastern) bank
where a sacred white cow is kept."
The takin of Memphis hy the
Persians, un er Cambyses, was the
ﬁrst blow received by this ancient city,
which continued to be the capital of
the lower country until the wealth of
Alexandria had raised its import-
ance to such a point, that Thebes.and
Memphis gradually decreased in size
and opulence; and in the time of the
Romans, Memphis held a secondary
rank, and Thebes had ceased to be a
city. Memphis still continued to en-
joy some consequence, even at the
time of the Arab invasion; and
though its ancient palace was a ruin,
the governor of Egypt, John Me-

oamo. — momma 4.

 

M. n.

eaukes,still resided in thecity; audit
was here that he concluded a treaty
with theinvaden, after they had sue-
eeeded in taking the strong Roman
fortress at Babylon. The wealth, I
well as the inhabitants of Memphis,
soon passedto the new Arab city of
Fostat, and the capital of Lower
Egypt in a few years ceased to exist.
The blocks of stone of its ruined mo-
numents were taken to build modern
ediﬁces; and we ﬁnd Pococke, a
hundred years ago expressing his as-
tonishment that the position of Mem-
phis should be entirely unknown.
Modern discoveries have ascertained
its site, but we are surprised to ﬁnd
so few remains of this vast city; and
the only traces of its name in the
country are preserved by very doubt-
ful tradition, and the M88. of the
Copts.

Several roads lead from the valley
of the Nile to the Fyéom, across
the low Libyan hills; some from near
Abooroiish, the great pyramids, and
the neighboun hood of Saggara _and
Dashéor. There are others from dif-
ferent points, along the whole range
to its entrance near the pyramid of
Illahéon, westward of Benisooef.

In the plain between the pyramids
and the Nile are the sites of many an-
cient towns; and about ﬁve miles
to the N. N. E. of Abooroiish, is
Weseem, in Coptic Boushem, which
probably occupies the position of Lé-
topolis, the capital of the name joining
the Memphitic to the N.

The 1.511;, where the pyramids stood
appear to have been called in hiero-
glyphics either Roosh, or Loot;
which probably applied to the whole
range, as far as Memphis; and that
it was customary for the Egyptians to
give names to particular portions of
the Libyan and eastern mountains, is
evident from numerous inscriptions in
various parts of Egypt.

