 

 

595W-

supplant commercial Tyre, continued
till a late period to secure the wel-
fare of Alexandria. The Indian
trade, brought thIough Berenice, Phi-
lotera, Myos Hormos, and Arsinoe,
and, in after times, through Sues and
Konsyr, and descending by the Nile
and the canal to the gates of Alexan-
dria, ﬂowed for many centuries in this
channel to the markets of Europe;
nor in spite of the fanaticism of its
Modem conquerors, did it fail to re-
tain some portion of its former conse-
quence; and when the Venetians
obtained permission to establish a
commercial intercourse with Egypt,
the trade of Alexandria was once
more revived. And though the
Asiatic caravans shared some portion
of the emoluments of Indian com-
merce, it was only ﬁnally annihilated
by the discovery of the Cape of Good
Hope, and the successful enterprises
of the Portuguese.

These bygone events are particularly
interesting at a titne when the overland
communication seems once more to
Open favourable prospects for Alex-
andria: but this is a subject which it
is not necessary here to discuss.

ll. Tux Ixnaxtrarrrs or Ataxan-
Data. -—The population of modern
Alexandria had till latterly been on
the decline, and is reported to have
been reduced at one time to 6000
souls; but under the government of
Mohammed Ali it has greatly re-
covered, and is computed at present
toamount to 80,000, including the
garrison of 6000 or 8000 men, and
the sailors of the ﬂeet, reckoned at
about 19.000, leaving 60,000 for the
population of the place.

As in former times, the inhabitants
area mixed race, from the coast of
Barbary, and all parts of Egypt, with
Turks, Albanians. Syrians, Greeks,
Jews, COpts, and Armenians, inde-
pendent of Funk settlers.

According to the account of Alex.
andria. given by l’olybius, the inhabit-
ants were, in his time, of three kinds:

1. The Egyptians, or people of the
Egypt.

ROUTE l. — anemnnu — museums.

 

,captain of the night.

97

country, a keen and civilised race;
2. The mercenary troops, who were
numerous and tuIbulent, for it was
the custom to keep foreign soldiers
in their pay, who having arms in their
hands were more ready to govern than
to obey; and, 3. The Alexandrians,
not very decidedly tractable, for simi-
lar reasons, but still better than the
last: for having been mixed with
and descended from Greeks, who had
settled there, they had not thrown off
the customs of that people. This
part of the population was, however,
dwindling away, more especially at
the time when Polybius visited Egypt
during the reign of Ptolemy Phys-
con- , who, in consequence of some
seditious proceedings, had attacked
the people on several occasions with
his troops, and had destroyed great
numbers of them. The successors
ot Physcon administered the govern-
ment as badly or even worse; and it
was not till it had passed under the
dominion of the Romans that the
condition of the city was improved.
At this time, according to Strabo,
“one of the three Roman battalions
was stationed at Alexandria, the other
two in the countIy: exclusive of
nine companies of Romans, three in
the city, three in garrison at Syene,
on the conﬁnes of Ethiopia, and
three «has in different parts of
the country : besides three regiments
of cavalry, distributed in like man-
ner in the most convenient places.
0f the natives she were employed in
the government of the cities, one was
the "£9515; or expounder, clad in
purple, and receiving the honours of
the country. who took care of what
was necessary for the city. There
were also the writer of commentaries
or register, and the archidicastes or
chief judge; and the fourth was the
The same
oﬂicer existed in the time of the
king's; but they (the l’tolemies)
governed so badly, that the welfare
of the city was sacriﬁced for want of
proper management” , and this neg.
I

