   

424 worm armorn. — MODERN HUME. Sect. V.
at. I
From Syene to Hierasy caminon - - . - 54
Tama - - . 75
the Ethiopian district of Euonymiton - - 190
Acina - - - - 54
Pitara - - 95
Tergedum, (between which two is the island of
Gagaudes) - 106

(Parrots, the Sphiagiaa animal, and Cynocephali
ﬁrst seen hereabouts)

Napata, a small city - - - 80
thence to the island of Meme - - - 860
Making, instead of 862, a total of - - 874

Or about 800 English miles.

The statement of Herodotus, that Sesostris was the only Egyptian monarch
who ruled' In EthiOpia, Is utterly devoid of foundation , as several other Pha-
raohs not only extended their conquests, but erected temples and other build-
ings in that country, the remains of which still exist, and that too in Upper
EthiOpia.

The names of the monarchs found above the second cataract are Osirta-
sen III. and Thothmes II. at Samneh; Thothmes I. at Tombos; Thoth—
ines III. at Samneh, Dasha, Sai, and opposite Mero'e' , Thothmes IV. at El
Berkel, - Amunoph III. at Sedinga, Soleb, Berkel, Tombos, and Samneh;
Osirei I. at Dasha; and Remeses II. or Sesostris, at El Berke]. Diodorus,
Pliny, and Strabo extend the conquests of Sesostris as far as the vicinity of
the modern Berbera, beyond the straits of Bab-el-mandeb.

It does not appear that the monarchs, after the 18th dynasty, continued to
extend, or even to maintain their conquests in this country ; and few of them
appear to have included Lower Ethiopia, between the ﬁrst and second cata-
racts, within the limits of their Egyptian territory. And this circumstance
no doubt led to the remark that Ethiopia was little known before the acces-
sion of the Ptolemies, who in fact only re-extended the frontier a short dis-
tance into what is now called Nubia.

Elephantine was the frontier In the time of Psamaticus. In Strabo‘ s time,
Sy ene was again the frontier, the Romans having, as he observes, “ conﬁned
the province of Egypt within his former limits." Phile then belonged in
“ common to the Egyptians and Ethiopians.” This did not, however, pre-
vent the Cmsars from considering Lower Ethiopia as belonging to them, or
from adding to the temples already erected there.

(I. ma atonaan mounts, on aaaisaas.

Philat and the cataracts are, as of old, the boundary of Egypt and Nubia.
Here commences the country of the Barébrn, which extends thence to the
second cataract at wadee Halfeh, and is divided into two districts; that to
the north inhabited by the Kenéos or Kensee tribe, the southern portion
by the Nooba. They have each their own language , but it is a sin-
gular fact that the Kensee, which ceases to be spoken about Dayr and
throughout the whole of the Nooba district, Is found again above the second
cataract, a strong argument to show that the Nooba tube settled' In that por.
tion of the country, which originally belonged to the Kenoos. This settle-
ment may perhaps be connected with, or similar to, that of the Nobatar men-

