 

320
.13“;

81mins] pmfectof
work (at the of statelend nlshed
it (at his owe) n the year 1901' the Emperor
Cesar Nerve Trelanus Augustus German!-
cus Daclcus, the 19th of Pachon."

His suggestion of the word epo-
ovemsin the fourth line is fully con-
ﬁrmed by the inscription I found at
Athribis; and he is doubtless correct
in his restoration of the name of the
prefect Lucius Sulpicius Simius;
who appears from an inscription I
copied near the quarries of Gebel
Fateéreh, in the eastern desert, to
have been governor of Egypt about
the time this monument was erected.
There are, however, some points in
which 1 differ from the learned meant,
and which I mention in order that
those who visit the spot, and are in.
terested in the subject, may decide
respecting them.

It is important to ascertain— I.
In the ﬁrst line, how many letters
should come before the pas Kerr; and
how many between these last and
seven ZeBom'ou. 2. In the third line
how many letters should come be-
tween Tteeptou K . . . and euros, and
if it is Kovpmu or Kompwa. 8. In
the fomth line are there any letters
wanting before row at the beginning?
4. In the ﬁfth line, to look if the
word epoa'vhov can come before etr't;
if the name is Lucius Sulpicius Simius,
and if renew comes after error. 5. In
the sixth line, if Ewes-cheese 8e stood
alone, and was or was not preceded
and followed by other letters (for I
think it was alone); and if it is
owes-Meow Be or ouverdtwsr 8e. 6.
How many letters should come be-
tween pee and on Isms-on, and if the
date after Ilaxaw' ta :0 or as in line 7.

It ts with great deference that I
offer any opinion differing in the
least from such an authority as M.
Letronne, but it appears to me that
the words he supplies at the begin-
ning and end of the ﬁlth line, as well
as the re rpol'quv, are not authorised
by the appearance of the block itself,

director ofthetemple o Thri is
"an, the 1"?! great Iieltrlles regret!

more 23. —osIoo'r To omen. -

 

SecLIII.

and that this part points out the tires
when Tiberius Claudius “began the
work,” which he “ ﬁnished in the
12th year of the Emperor.

The superstitions of the natives
have ascribed the same properties to
this stone, and to another in the tomb
of a female shehh, called Bir el Ab-
bad, which the statues of the of
generation, the patron deity of
polis, were formerly believed to have
possessed; and the modern women of
Elthmim. with similar home and
equal credulity, offer their vows to
these relics, for e numerous offspring.
Many blocks and fragments of statues
in other parts of Egypt are supposed
to be endowed with the same pro-
perty ; but the population of the
country is still on the decline.

To the N. E. of the temple of Pan,
I observed a fragment of red granite,
which, from the two winged globes,
one over the other, was evidently part
of a monolithic temple or cage, simi-
lar to that at Antmopolis; but I
could ﬁnd no traces of the triumphal
arch of Nero mentioned by Bruce.

Accordin g to Strabo, Panopolis was
a very ancient city, and the inhabi-
tants were famous as linen manufac-
turers and wotlters in stone; nor
were they, if we may believe Hero-
dotus, so much prejudiced against
the manners of the Greeks, as the rest
of the Egyptians. The people of
Chemmis, says the historian of Hali-
‘carnassus, are the only Egyptians,
who are not remarkable “for their
abhorrence of Greek customs. Chem-
mis is a large city of the Thebe’id,
near Neapolis, where there is a temple
of Perseus, the son of Dana'é. This
temple is of a square form, and sur-
rounded by palm trees. It has stone
pmpyla of considerable size, upon
which are two large statues , and
within the sacred circuit stands the
sanctuary, having in it an image of
Perseus. For the Chemmites say
that Perseus has often appeared in
their country, and even within the
temple, and his sandal was once found

