Barf-

Telmeopa. E.

nanometer, mountain barometer,
if required, E.

Hearing-tape and footnruler, E.

For observations, a sextant and ar-
tilcial horison, or rather, Captain
Eater's Repeating Circle, chrono-
meta, &e.. E.

Curtains for boat, of common or other
cotton stuti'. A. or C.

A poking-needle or two, and some
string, thin ropes. needles, thread,
buttons, be, are useful: E., A.,
or C.

A Ilterer is not necessary. geneh
jars and pound. or earthen water
bottles, supply its place.

A sense-tel. or water bottle of Rus-
sian leather, for the desert, or even
forescnrsions to the ruins; though
for the latter goods! will answer
very well, without any trouble, C.
The seams must be first ofall rub-
bed with a mixture of melted tallow

 

 

mos USEFUL ron m manner. 5

and was, and when this thin the
Zemaeméiih may be ﬁlled ; but af-
terwards it must never be left
without some water in it. Another
precaution, when on an excursion,
for preserving the water, is to insist
on the servants not drinking it.

A donkey, if he intends taking a large
boat from Cairo, or, at all events.
a donkey saddle, but no bridle, the
asses of Upper Egypt not having
any knowledge of such a harry, C.

As many eatsbles, which will keep, as
he likes, most of which may be had
at Cairo. Portable soups, or meat,
&e., preserved in tins, may be
htought from England as ocea-
sional luxuries.

An iron rat-trap for the boat, E.

Two sheets of Mackintosh, about 7
feet square, with loops here and
there, against damp ground and
rain, are very useful, especially in
the desert and in Syria.

With regard to instruments, they should, when it is possible, be of the
mine materials throughout, wood and metal combined ill according with the
heat of an Egyptian e imate; and in the top and bottom of the cases nails, or

screws answer better than glue.

In his medicine chest. the most necessary things for a traveller ere, scales,

and liquid-measure, lancet, diaehylon and blistering plaster, lint, salts. rhu-
barb. cream of tartar, ipeeacuanha, sulphate of bark or quinine, James's and
[)0va powders, ealomel, laudanum or morphine, sugar of lead, sulphate of
sine, nitrate of silver, and sulphate of copper (these 4 being of great use in
ophthalmia). nitre, oil of peppermint, and other common medicines. They
had better be brought from Europe, though they may be bad In Alexandria
or Cairo. Powders and other medicines should be put into bottles, well
closed with lass stoppers.

Nearly all the above-mentioned things may, indeed, he found in Egypt.
but they are better and cheaper in EurOpe: many, too, will be thought
unnecessary by many travellers; it must therefore be left to them to decide
if any. or what. can be dispensed with.

The choice of a library (which cannot be collected in Egypt) will, of
course, depend on the occupations or taste of each person : I shall therefore
only recommend the most useful works, as vols. ii. and iii. of Lareher‘s
Herodotus; Champollion's Phonetic System of Hieroglyphics, Letters. and
Grammr; Poeoeke; Denon; HaIn’ilton' a Eg ptiaea; Savary's Letters;
ClotBey's Apereu Générale de l'E tc; l,(ilid on on the Hieroglyphics;
liengin' s “ Egypte sous lilohammy ;" Robinson's Palestine and
Haunt Sinai; Lane's Modern, and Wilkinson's Ancient. Egyptians; Hos-
line's Ethiopia, and Visit to the Great Oasis; Colonel Leake's, Lepie's.
or Wilkinson's Map of Egypt; Captain Smyth's Alexandria; Wilkinson's
Survey of Thebes; Costa‘s Delta; and Parlte and Seoles's Nubia; to which

a 8

