 

 

Egnt. noon 1. — mm — nemesis Tomi.

tailgate: the see, connected with
the , and having numerous
ts and groves, below which
'vete port belonging exclu-
the sovereign. The tombs
d the kings, also, stood in this dis-
trict, and formed part of the palace
name of “ Sdara." In
dis encosure the Ptolemies were
buried, as well as the founder of the
city, whose body having been brought
to Egypt, and kept at Memphis while
the tomb was preparing, was taken
thence to Alexandria, and deposited
in the royal cemetery. Str-sbo men-
tions the removal of the original gold
cuﬂn in which it was buried, and the
suhsu'tution of another of glass, in
which it wesseen by Augustus; who,
to show his respect for the memory of
so great a man, adorned it with a

den crown, and strewed it with

were.

Arab tradition has long continued
to record the existence of the tomb
of Alexander,- snd Leo Africanus
mentions “a small ediﬁce standing
in the midst of the mounds of Alex-
ander, built like a chapel, remarkable
for the tomb, where the body of the
greet prophet end king, Alexander,
is preserved. It is highly honoured
by the Mosh-ms; and a greet con-
course of strangers from foreign lands,
who, with feelings of religious vene-
retion, visit this tomb. often leave
there many charitable donations." The
building traditionally reported to be
the tomb of Alexander, has lately
been found by Mr. Stoddart amidst
the mounds of the old city. It re-
sembles an ordinary Shekh's tomb,
end is near the bath to the west of the
road leading from the Frank quarter
to the Pornpey's-Piller-Gate. But
its position does not agree with the
“some," according to Strabo's ac-
count; and the authority of Arab tre-
dition cannot always be trusted.

The sarcophagus, said to have been
looked upon by the people of Alex-
endria as the tomb of lscetrder, was
taken by the French from the mask of

l

 

 

87

Athanasius, end is now in the British
Museum. That it is whet the Arabs
believed to be of the Greek conqueror
seems suﬂicientl y evident, but neither
their authority nor probability sumce
to establish its claims; end the hiero-
glyphic legends, containing the name
of an Egyptian Pharaoh, prove it to
have belonged to king Amyrtuus.
It is not from the fact of Alexander's
body having been deposited in a glass
coﬂin that the claims of the breeds
sarcophagus may be questioned, —es
the glass (like the golden) case was
doubtless placed in an outer one of
stone;—but the improbability consists
in the body of so great a king, the
founder of the city, having been de-
posited in a borrowed sarcophagus, at
a time when the arts of sculpture and
of cutting hard stones were as much
practised as at any previous period;
and Ptolemy Lagos had at his com-
mand ell the workmen of the country.
Nor is it to be supposed that a Pha-
raoh‘s body would have been deprived
of its resting-place, to make room for
that of a Greek monarch; and the
violation of the tombs, which could
not have happened in secret, when
such large sarcophsgi were removed
from them, was more likely to take
place under the Arabs than the Greek
kings.

The island of Aatr'rlrodes, situated
before the artiﬁcial harbour, with its
palace and port, is supposed by Po-
coelte to have been entirely destroyed
by the sea, and to have stood opposite
the two obelisks.

The same learned traveller also
conjectures that on a hill above this,
now called Kom Dimes, near the
Rosetta Gate, was the theatre. in
the immediate vicinity was the M.
diner, apparently a pert of the city.
on e cove. containing the Temple
of Neptune, nhence it derived its
name. it extended from the em-
porium or market-place; and before
it Antony hurlt the “Ionian, so
called from his intendin it as a place
of retirement after his feet at Ac-

