 

 

5917‘-

triling, and by no means capable of
having united the Phsros to the shore.
his was done artiﬁcially by means
of the Hepustadium, whose increased
lweadth, owing to many subsequent
additions from the accumulation of
ruined buildings, now forms the base
of the chief part of the modern city.
he name of this causeway was derived
from its length of 7 stadia, aboth ofa
mile, or 4270 English feet, which was
at that time the distance from the shore
to the island. Ancient Alexandria,
the successor of the town of Rhacotis,
stood on the rochof the Libyan desert,
which was then, as it still is, beyond
the reach, and above the level of, the
inundation : and the distance from
theb'aeoftloscoasttotheroclof the
Pharos lsle is still the same as in the
of Hooter. The error respecting

its having been a day‘s journey from
Egypt originated in the misinterpre-
tation of the word Aqua-res, which is
used by the poet to designate both
the Nile and E pt; and that the
river was so call in ancient times is
testiﬁed by Diodorus, who states that
Nileus, one of the early monarchs of
the country, transferred his name to
the stream, which previously bore
that of Egyptus. Arrian again
justly observes, “ that the river, now
called by the Egyptians and others
Nile, is shown by Homer to have
been named .Egyptus, when he re-
lates that Menelaus anchored his ﬂeet
at the mouth of the IEgyptus; " and
a mere inspection of the verse to
which he alludes snfiices to prove his
remark to be correct. It is then to
the Nile, not to the coast of Egypt,
that Homer alludes; and thus the
argument derived from his authority
must cease to be brought forward in
support of the great cncroachments
of the Delta, and of the constant ad-
vanceof the land into the receding sea.
Pliny, and numerous ancient as
well as modern authors, have been
led into this error; and it is singular
that Arrian should be the only one to

some I. — ALEXANDRIA — mer.

 

88

perceive and point out the evident
meaning of the poet.

The old lighthouse of Alexandria
still occupies the site of the ancient
Pharos. On that rock, at the eastern
point of the island, to which it is joined
by a wall, Pococlte thought he could
perceive in the water, when the sea
was calm, some columns and other
fragments of masonry, once probahl
a part of that renowned building.
The form of the Heptastadium is no
longer perceptible. in consequence of
the modern buildings having en.
crouched upon it; but its length of
7 stadia, or, as Cesar reckons, 900
paces, maybe readily made out, in
measuring from the old Saracenic
wall behind the Frank quarter. And,
though its breadth has been greatly
increased by the accumulation of
earth on which the modern town
stands, I believe that a line drawn
from the site of that wall, or from
Fort Caﬁ‘arelli. to what was properly
the island of Pharos, would mark its
exact position.

The Library was ﬁrst established
by Ptolemy Soter, as well as the
Museum. The latter was a sort of
academy (as we have seen {tom
Stnabo‘s account), where men of
science and literature devoted them-
selves to learned pursuits, as in
similar institutions of modern Eu-
rope. It was maintained at the pub-
lic expense, and to it was attached
the famous Library, which, from the
many additions made by the Second
Ptolemy, contained at his death no
less than lO'J,000 rolumes. increased
by his successors to seven times that
number.

No pains were spared in adding to
to this collection. A copy of erery
lmown work was reputed to be depo-
sited there, and it was amongst them
that the Septuagint translation of the
Bible, made by order of Ptolemy
l’hiladclphus, was placed. or the
arrangements respecting this transla-
tion, and the reception of his country-

a 6

