 

 

without a written language, sumce to
diqrnve thisoonjecture; and the dis-
mel'ies of Colonel Howard Vyse,
who found hieroglyphics containing
thehing’s name on the stones of the
upper chambers, have satisfactorily set
the question at rest, and proved their
use at the period of its erection.
Theinscription mentioned by Hero-
dotus on the front of the pyramid
is said to have contained an account
of the expenses incurred in feeding
the workmen, according to the es-
planation given by the interpreter who
accompnied him. From the man-
ner in which he speaks of it, we
might suppose the inscription to have
been in Hieratic, or in Enchorial. But
til latter was then unknown, and the
Hieratic was not used on monuments;
and though he seems to use the ex-
'on “ the ﬁgures of animals ” to
ndicate hieroglyphics, we may con-
clude the inscription on the pyramid
to have been in the same character.
With regard to the stones mentioned
by some modern writers in the walls
of the adjacent tombs, it is certain
thatthey were not taken, as they sup-
pose, from the pyramids. Nor are
those buildings anterior in date to the
great pyramid, since their position is
evidently regulated by the direction of
that monument. in the hieroglyphic
inscriptions of the tombs, the names of
kings are'of very great antiquity, long
before theaccession of the thhdynas-
ty; and we even find that of

 

Sophie, or Cheops, the founder of the
great pyramid, which, as well as their
general style, proves the early date
of hieroglyphic; and of their com.
men use at that period. There is a
dil‘erence between the name we have 1

GREAT PYRAMID.

 

 

181

always ascribed to Buphis b, and that
found in the great pyramid a; but it
may be observed that the latter was
painted on the stones before they were
built into the walls, probably while in
the quarry; which, with other facts,
argues that this king may have beeis
a predecessor of the founder of the
pyramid.

In the side walls of the king‘s cham-
ber are small holes, or tubes, the .use
of which perplexed every one until
ascertained by the valuable researches
of the same person, to whose
rance we are so greatl indebted ; and
it was left for Colone Howard Vyse
to ascertain their real use, as tubes to
conduct air into the interior of the
pyramid. Over the king’s chamber
is another room, or rather entresol,
which, like those above it, was evi-
dently intended to protect the roof of
that chamber from the pressure of the
mass of masonry above. This was
discovered by Mr. Davidson, British
consul at Algiers, who accompanied
Mr. Wortley Montague to Egypt in
1768, and therefore received his name.
The ascent to it was by means of
small holes cut into the wall at the
S. E. corner of the great gallery, at
the top of which was the entrance of
a narrow passage leading into it. This
room is not more than 3 ft. 6 in. high;
and the floor, which is the upper side
of the stones forming the roof of the
chamber below, is very uneven. its
roof also consists of granite blocks,
like that of the king‘s chamber, and
serves as the ﬂoor of another entreaol 3
above which are three other similar
low rooms, the uppermost of which,
called after Colonel Campbell. has a
pointed roof, made of blocks placed
against each other, like those of the
queen's chamber, and over the entrance
of the pyramid.

These four upper entresols were
discovered by Colonel Howard Vyse,
and received from him the names of
Wellington's, Nelson‘s. Lady Ar-
buthnot's, and Campbell‘s chambers.

0n the stones were found some

hieroglyphic», painted in red ochre,

