 

 

Egypt. uosxs. 13!

rock, or projecting point of the Gebel
e' .106st (Gooshee), the ascent to
which is by a long causeway.

It was on the site of this fort that
Hohammed Ali erected a battery

'nst the citadel, then in possession
of Khoorshid Pasha, by which he ob~
tainted the surrender of the place.

1’. oataurar. cusaac-raa or sue
rowtt.

The narrowness of the streets of
Cairo, and their great irregularity,
may strike an European as imper-
fections in a large city; but their
Oriental character fully compensates
for this objection, and of all Eastern
towns none is so interesting in this
respct as the Egyptian capital. Nor
is this character conﬁned to the
baaaars, to the maths, or to the pecu-
liarities of the exterior of the houses;
the interiors are of the same original
Arab style, and no one can visit the
hareems and courts of the private
dwellings of the Cairenes, without re-
calling the impressions he received
on reading the Arabian Nights. The
disposition of the dilferent patts of the
interior is, to an European eye, singu-
larly confused, without the appear-

 

ance of plan or systematic arrange.
ment; but the picturesque style of
the courts, the inlaid marble, the
open fonts, meadows with a facade of
two arches supported on a single
column, the elaborate fretworlt of
wood forming the stashrebéé'lts, or pro-
jecting windows, and the principal
room with its lantern (a sort ofcovered
impluvium), its diwans, deep window
seats, and stained glass windows. have '
an eﬂ'ect which cannot fail to strike a
stran er. and remind him of the
descriptions of old Saracenic cities.
The accurate worlt of Mr. Lane. and
the drawings published by Mr. Hay,
Mr. Roberts, and Mr. Owen Jones,
have illustrated the mode of living,
and have given excellent represen-
tations of some of the public build-
ings in Cairo; but much remains to

 

bedooeintheinterlors;anditis1

gratifying to know that the pencil 0
one, who has already occupied him-
self so successfully in Spain, is now
engaged in portraying the striking
peculiarities of this truly

capital, which we may shortly hape
to receive from the hand of Mr. Lewis.

L stosxs or cstao—uau rottteaa
secure.

Cairo is said to contain about 400
mosks. Many of them are in ruins,
but the number of those that are still
in repair, and used for the daily
prayers, cannot fail to strilte any one
who passes through the streets, or
sees their numerous minarets from
without. The principal mosks are
the Tayloon (Tooloon), the Es'her,
the ﬂassanin, El ﬂiltcm, and thou
of the Sultans ﬂassan, el 0h6ree,
and galaoon, (to which last is at-
tached the Morostan, or madhouse,)
the Shir‘wee, Moiiiid, Bérlgwg,
Sittch Zéyneh, and others; to many
of which are attached the tombs of
their founders.

There is little diﬂiculty attending a
visit to the mosh of Cairo; and, with
the exception of the Hassanin and
the Es’her, they may be visited by per-
sons wearing the Frank dress, if ac-
companied by a Cawass, and provided
with an order from the Government.

The ﬁrst in point of antiquity, is the
moslt of Ahmed ebn e' T ooloon, gene-
rally knowu as the damn (Gama)
Tayloon. It is said to be built on tho
plan of the Beebe, at Mecca, which
seems to have been that of all the oldest
masks founded by the Moslems. The
centre is an extensive open court,
about IOO paces square, surrounded
by colouusdes; those on three of the
sides consisting oftwu rows ofcolumns,
95 paces deep, and that on the eastern
end of live tows. all supporting
pointed arches. These arches are of
a very graceful shape, retaining a little

' of the horse-shoe form at the base of

the archivolt, as it rises from the

pilaster; and in a wall added after.

wards to connect the mosh with the
o 6

