 

2 season FOR VISITING Item. Sect. I.

aspect of the inundation, which, when it rises very high, gives the villages of
the Delta the appearance described by Herodotus, of islands in the sea.

Almost every season ma be considered favourable for seeing Egypt, but
good winds from April to uly are not to be expected, and the comparative
prevalence of southerly and other adverse winds in May make it the worst
month in the whole year. his then, too, that the 100mm winds blow, which
begin about the 2nd of May, and prevail for ﬁfty days, as the name implies.
It is not that they blow everyday, but this period is more subject to them
than an other. The worst are from the 8.13. The ﬁrst day of the Khamsiu
is call Shela: e‘ screen, or “ the smelling of the aephyr,f' when the people
smell at an onion, and go into the gatdens; frequently to be nearly suli‘ocated
by the sand and dust raised by these strong hot winds. Though the thermo-
meter doea not range as high as in the three following months, or the begin-
ning of September, the heat is more Oppressive and disagreeable during this
season, and of all others it is the least advisable for a voyage up the Nile.

In choosing a time for going to Egypt, much will depend on the destina-
tion of a traveller after leaving it. If he is going into Syria, it may be too
long for him to remain in Egypt from October till April, before which it is
too cold to travel comfortably in Syria. .

All the winter months are good for going up the Nile, and if he intend
making any stay in the country be' may choose his own time; but in that
case be had better-arrive in October. Twenty days may be reckoned a fair
average for the voyage from Cairo to Thebes; with fair winds, it is possible
to go from Thebesgto the second Cetaractand back again in a fortnight, though
this is rarely done; and the least tires for seeing Egypt conveniently, is three
months.

As a general rule, a traveller should always make it a point to see every
thing when he can, and not put it of for a second visit, which may be pre-
venwd by some unforeseen impediment; but in ascending the Nile it is as
well to go ,on direct as long as the wind is favourable, and only stop if it
failsat a spot where there is anything to be seen. At Thebes, however, I
should ,reoommend his staying two or three days in going up, to look over
the ruins: in order that, after havin taken a general view of them, he may
know what to go and examine in etail, on his return from Nubia or the
Cataracts. I may also,observe, that if a steamer is ever established on the
Nile to run between Cairo and Thebes. a traveller who is interested in anti-
quities should only take advantage of it for going up the river. He should
quit it at Thebes, and order a dahabeiih or cengia to be sent up for him to
that place to bring him back to Cairo; when he can stop. as he likes, at the
diﬂ‘erent ruins on his way down, without being hurried from one to the
other.

Besides, the speed and certainty of the steamer‘s passage is only an object
in gain up the stream, as a rowing heat can always come down in about
eight ' ya from Thebes, and in it the traveller has all the comfort of a boat
to himself, going or stopping at his own option, and the great advantage of
being independent. The aangia may be either bespoken by him before leav-
ing Cairns and even sent 06‘ then, or be engaged aﬂerwards by a friend, ac.
cording to the time he intends staying at Thebes.

It it impossible to say what the carcass of a journey in Egypt may be;
that will of course depend upon each individual; but it may be reckoned at
about 60l- for three months, if with a companion; or 801. if alone; and this
may be diminished by making arrangements respecting the outﬁt at Cairo.

