 

850

and by some ancient authors, which
seem more probable than the cause
assigned by Strabo, since the temple
to which it belonged, and the other
cola-i in the dreams, have evidently
been levelled and mutilated by the
hand of man.

Thesound it uttered was said to
resemble the bushing of a harp-string,
or, according to the preferable au-
thority of a witness, a metallic ring,
and the memory of its daily perform-
ance, about the ﬁrst or second hour
after sunrise. is still retained in the
traditional appellation of Salamat,
“salutations,” by the modern inhabit-
ants of Thebes. The priests, who,
no doubt, contrived the sound of the
statue, were artful enough to allow
the supposed deity to fail occasionally
in his accustomed habit, and some
were consequently disappointed on
their first visit, an obliged to return
another morning to satisfy their curi-
osity. This fact is also recorded on
its feet with the precision of the cre-
dulous.

In the lap of the statue is a stone,
which, which, on being struck, emits
a metallic sound, that might still be
made use of to deceive a visitor, who
was predisposed to believe its powers;
and from its position, and the squared
space cut in the block behind, as if to
admit a person who might thus lie
concealed from the most serutinous
observer in the plain below, it seems
to have been used after the restora-
tion of the statue. Another similar
recess also exists beneath the present
site of this stone, and this may have
been intended for the same purpose
when the statue was in its mutilated
state. Having remarked the peculiar
sound of this stone, and subsequently
ﬁnding, in one of the inscriptions,
that a certain Ballilla had compared
it to the “ striking of brass," I posted
some peasants below, and ascended
myself to the lap of the statue, with a
view of hearing from them the rm-
pression made by the sound. Haring
struck the sonorous block with

DISCRETION

 

SeehIV.

03' Turns.

a small hamnter, I inquired what
they heard, and their answer, “ Eats
bettdrnb s‘aohds,” “You are strik-
ing brass,” convinced me that the
sound was the same that deceived the
Romans, and led 8trabo to observe
thatitappeared to him as theeﬁ'ect
ofasligbt blow. Thatit was a de-
ception there can be little doubt; the
fact of the Emperor Hadrian hearing
it thrice looks very suspicious; and a
natural phenomenon would not have
been so comﬂimentary to the em-
peror when it sounded only once for
ordinary mortals. " Kaspar sat rparev
axor m,” “ rejoicing (at the presence
of the Emperor), it uttered a sound
a third time."

The form of these colossi resembles
that mentioned by Diodorus, in the
tomb of Osymandyas, in which the
ﬁgures of the daughter and mother
of the king stood on either side of the
legs of the larger central statue, the
length of whose foot exceeded seven
cubits, or three and a half yards.
Such, indeed, is the size of their feet;
and on either side stand attached to
the throne the wife and mother of
Amunoph, in height about six yards.
The traces of a smaller ﬁgure of his
queen are also seen between his feet.

The proportions of the colossi are
about the same as of the granite sta-
tue of Remescs II.; but they are
inferior in the weight and hardness
of their materials. They measure
about 18 feet 3 across the shoulders;
16 feet 6 from the top of the shoulder
to the elbow; 10 feet 6 from the top
of the head to the shoulder; 17 feet 9
from the elbow to the ﬁnger’s end; '
and 19 feet 8 from the ltnee to the
plant of the foot. The thrones are
ornamented with ﬁgures of the
Nilus, who, holding the stallts of two
plants peculiar to the river, is en-
gaged in bindin up a pedestal or
table, surmounte by the name of the
Egyptian monarch — a symbolic
group, indicating his dominion over
the upper and lower countries. A
line of hieroglyphics extends perpen-

