 

92

attached to them the title of Cleopa-
tra's Needles, with the same disregard
to truth that ascribes to her the honour
of erecting the Heptastadium and the
Pharos. They are of red granite of
Syene, like most of the obelisks in
Egypt, and about. 57 paces apart.
The standing obelisk is about 70 feet
high, with a diameter at its base of 7
feet 7 inches. Pliny gives them 42
cubits, or 63 feet. One is still stand-
ing, the other has been thrown down,
and lies close to its pedestal, which
stood on two steps, of white limestone;
the pedestals of Egyptian obelisks
being usually a square dado or die,
without any moulding, scarcely ex-
ceeding the diameter of the obelisk,
and placed upon two plinths, the one
projecting beyond the other in the
form of steps.

The height of the fallen obelisk, in
its mutilated state, is about 66 feet,
and of the same diameter as the other.
It has been given by Mohammed Ali
to the English, who were desirous of
removing it to England as a record of
their successes in Egypt, and of the
glorious termination of the campaign
of 1801. The Pasha even offered to
transport it free of ex pense to the shore,
and put it on board any vessel or raft
which might be sent to remove it;
but the project has been wisely aban-
doned, and cooler deliberation has
pronounced, that, from its mutilated
state, and the obliteration of many of
the hieroglyphics by exposure to the
sea air, it is unworthy the expense of
removal.

Pococke supposes these obelisks to
have stood before the temple of Nep-
tune, but I do not know on what
authority. He gives them 68 feet in
height.

Another obelisk once stood at Alex-
andria, erected by Ptolemy Philadel-
phus at the temple of Arsino'é his sis-
ter, which was afterwards taken to
Rome. It had originally been cut
by Nectabis (Nectanebo), and was

without hieroglyphies. Maximus,
when prefect of Egypt, ﬁnding it in

 

ROUTE 1. — nennnm— POMPEY'B PILLan. Sect. I.

the way of the docks, removed it, and
sent it to Rome, where it was put up
in the Forum, its apex having been
cut off to be replaced with gold, which
was never done. Pliny gives it 80
cuhits, or 120 feet.

The temple of Arsino'e', as Pliny
shows, stood near the docks; and it
was here that the celebrated statue of
that deiﬁed princess was placed by
Dinocrates, which, being made of
loadstone, was suspended in the air
by an e ual attraction of the iron that
surronn ed it.

Philadelphus had also erected a
temple to his father and mother, where
their statues, made of gold and ivory,
were treated with the honours paid to
deities; and Pliny mentions “a sta-
tue of tapes representing the same
Arsino'e', and measuring 4 cubits,
which was put up in what was called
the golden sanctuary."

Just beyond the obelisks to the E.
was an old round tower, forming the
corner of the wall, at the point where
it turns off to the southward. It was
called the “ Roman tower,” though,
from its position and style of building,
I should rather attribute it toan early
Saracenic age. A drawing of it is
given in the great French work.

Pompcy‘s Pillar stands on an emi-
nence about 1800 feet to the south of
the present walls. It consists of a
capital, shaft, base, and pedestal,
which last reposes on substructions of
smaller blocks, once belonging to
older monuments, and probably
brought to Alexandria for the pur-
pose. On one I observed the name
of the Second Psamaticus. A few
years ago curiosity had tempted the
Arabs and some Europeans to dig
into, and pick out the cement that
united those stones, which might have
endangered the safety of the column,
had not the Pasha ordered the holes
to be ﬁlled up with montar, to check
the curiouS.

Its substructions were evident]
once under the level of the ground:
'and formed part of a paved area, the

