 

‘ 116 some GPALnxannma 'ro ATFEH m cmo.

soon discover the truth; but if you
have accused him falsely, I will treat
you in the same manner I now treat
him." Upon this he ordered his
stomach to be cut open; and on dis-
covering the milk threw her the 5
paras, with the exulting feeling that
no one should dare to deceiire him, or
for et his power.

e same thing had once been done
by Sultan Bajaset, and it was no
doubt partly in imitation of what he
had read in the history of his country,
with which he was well acquainted,
and partly from the natural tendency
of his disposition, that this savage ex-
pedient occurred to him.

Not content with continuing to
exercise the right of life and death,
which Mohammed Ali had openly dc-
clared to be no longer vested in any
chief, he even pretended to defy the
Pasha, of whose indulgence towards
the husband of his daughter, and con-
sideration for his station, he had the
bad taste to take advantage; till at
length his father-in-law took from
him all command, and conﬁned him
to one of his estates, where death put
an end to his career, without exciting
any other regret than that it had not
happened many years earlier.

Notwithstanding the cruelty of his
disposition, some were found to ex-
cuse, and even to commend him for
the love of justice that prompted his
savage punishments, which, they add,
were not inﬂicted on the poor, but on
men who had been their oppressors ;
so that the rule of the Defterdar,
however dreaded by those in power,
was always welcome to the peasants,
who were sure to ﬁnd redress for the
conduct of their shekhs and Turkish
governors.

In the square of the Usbekééh the
.Moolcd e' Nebbee, or “ Prophet’s
birth-day,” and some other fétes, are
held; and here, during the former
ceremony, the Saadééh (the modern
Psylli), exhibit the juggling per-
formance of tearing with their teeth

 

Sect. I.

the living asps they carry in proces-
sion; while their shelth, mounted on ‘
a horse, rides over the bodies of a

number of fanatics, who prostrate

themselves on the ground for the pur-

pose, and suppose themselves bene-

ﬁted in proportion to the pain they

endure. None, however, will ac-

knowledge that they suﬂ‘er, or are at

all sensible of being trodden upon by

the hoofs of the blessed animal ; and

the same kind of enthusiasm enables

them to deny the pain, which, of old,

induced the votaries of Mars to bear

the blows they received at the fits of
Papremis.

Having traversed the Ushelgéiéh,
the traveller is hurried on to the
Frank quarter, a short distance 06',
where an enormous board, to the sur-
prise of the Faithful, bestrides the
street, in order to point out the
British Hotel. A turn to the left,
down the Derb el Bardbra, soon
brings him to this hotel, where, if he
is on his way to India, there is every
reason to suppose he will put up.
Passing through the court, he sees
the various preparations for a journey
across .the desert. Here part of a
tilted cart, wheels, and other things
are on the eve of completion, to make
up the complement of carriages which
the increasing numbers of passengers
to India are constantly requiring.
In another place a row of covered
chairs (a sort of hybrid between a se-
dan and a bathing chair) awaits the
ladies of the party, and a lynx pacing
backwards and forwards in a cage, an
ostrich spatiating about the court, and
Eastern and Frank costumes add to
the variety of the scene. If he is so
unfortunate as to arrive with many
other passengers, and is neither among
the ﬁrst, nor has sent any one before
him to secure rooms, he will be
obliged to put up with the disagree-
able inconvenience of having another
person in the same bed-room, and a
sitting-room will be quite out of the

l question.

