 

 

 

U. Egypt. noun 29.—rsu1tn or name.

quarries the method adopted for eut-
ttng 06' the blocks. In some in-
stances. they appear to have used
wooden wedges. es in India. which
being lrmly driven into holes cut to
receive them. along the whole line of
the stone. and saturated with water.
broke half by their equal pressure.
Indeed. it trench seems to have been
cut for this purpose; and the wedge
holes being frequently seen, where
the stone is still unbroken. strongly
conﬁrm this conjecture

The nature of the rocks about Syene
is not.» might be expected, exclu-
sively syenite. but on the contrary
consists mostly of granite. with some
arenite. and a little porphyry. The
diﬂ'crence between the two former is
this—that syenite is composed of
felspar. quarts. and hornblende. in-
stead of mice. or solely of fclspar and
quarts; and granite of felspar. quarts.
and mice. According to some. the
ingredients of syenite are quarts. fel-
spar, mics. and hornblende; but the
sysnite of antiquity. used for statues.
was really granite. I many of
the rocks of Syene contain all the four
component parts; and. from their
diﬂ'ering considerably in their pro-
portions. aﬂ'ord a variety of specimens
for the collection of a mineralogist.

Many of the inhabitants of Asouan
are descendants of the garrison left
there by Sultan Selim. and have re-
tained with the costume and arms the
pride of their Turkish ancestors.
Many of his soldiers were Bosnians.
end I have known some persons there
who retain the distinguishing name
of Boshnik to this day.

The environsof the town on sandy
and barren, producing little else but
palms; grain. and almost every kind
of provision, bein brought. an in
Ahoolfeda's time. rorn other parts of
the country. But the dates still re-
tain the reputation they enjoyed in
the days of Strabo; and the palm
of lbrecln is cultivated and thrives in
the climate of the ﬁrst cataract.

Datesare among the principal esports

 

417

of Aeouan. and eenna. charcoal, hen-
neh. wicker beekets, and s few slaves
from the interior. from Abyssinia.
and Upper Ethiopia, are sent from
thence to dil'erent parts of Lower
Egypt.

Opposite Asonan is the island of
Elephantized. n§w called Gueeeet

souan. in ubianStroan-btiga.
or " the island of Aeouan."

It is evident that Asouan is then
from the Coptic or Egyptian name
Sousa; but. as l have before oh-
ecrved. the Arabs always peel! a
vowel to words beginnm with 8
followed hyacomonengeetn Oeioot.
Es’ne. Oshtnoonayn. and others; in
which the original Egyptian name
may be easily traced.—- Sidout, 8nd.
and Shmoun II.

Island of Emeline—One of
the few remaining ruins in Ble-

phnatise is e grsntte gateway of the

time of Alexander. the entrance to
some ediﬁce now entirely demolished.
Near it. to the northward. was the
small but interesting peripteral tem-
ple. built by- Amenoph III. to
Kneph or Chnubis. who presided over
the inundation. and was particularly
adored in the vicinity of the catareets.

Near it I observed a mutilated
statue of red granite. end an altar
dedicated to “ Amman." whom the
Romans confounded with the ram-
heeded deity Kncph.

A Christian ruin stood a little dis-
tance to the north. and a short walk
to the westward. was a poation of
another interesting temple: but the
whole of these were destroyed in "92
by Mohammed Bey. the I'mha‘s
kehia. to build a pitiful palace at
Asouan. The upper chambers d the
Nilometer vul'eted the same fate;
but I was in time to observe, and
cop horn the hieroglyphics on their
w the name d the island. which
was represented by an elephant. The
royel ovals were of a Cwsar. For-
tunately the lower part. which con-
tsinsthestaircesethateervedbrthe

Nilerneter, h still prsuvved.
s 8

