loom unsure, on ultimo. 426

tinnedby Procopiua; from whomthe BarebraoftheNoobadistrietmaybe
descended. It is now customary for us to call them all Nubiangas the
Arabs comprehend them under the general name of Basilica, and asthe
Greeks denominated the whole country Ethiopia. «in former times, under
meﬁmmmwd NubiawascalledDodecchhmnus,whicb
comprehended the space lying between the ﬁrst cataract (or Phil-ate Hiera-
sycaminon; and received from its length the name of “ twelve scheme."

The character of the country above Philat .dil‘ers very much from Egypt,
particularly from that part below Edneu The hills are mostly sandstone and
granite, and from their coming very near the river, frequently leave only a
narrow strip of soil at the immediate bank, on which the people depend for
the scanty supply of corn or other produce grown in the country. It is not
therefore surprising that the Nubians are poor; though, from their limited
wants, and thrilty habits, they do not suffer from the miseries of poverty.
The palm tree, which there produces dates of very superior quality, is to
them a great resource, both in the plentiful supply it affords for their own
use, and in the proﬁtable exportation of its fruit to Egypt, where it is bighl
prised, especially that of the lbréemee kind. The fruit (1' this is m
larger and of better ﬂavour than thatof other palms, and the treedil'ers in the
appearance of its leaves, which are of a liner and softer texture. The Boot,
or Mimosa Nilotica, also furnishes articles for export, of great importance to
the Nubian, in its gum and charcoal; and senna, baskets, mats, and a few
other things produced or made in Nubia, return a good proﬁt in sending
them to Egypt.

When the Nile is low, the land is irrigated by water-wheels, which are the
pride of the Nubian peasant. Even the endless and melancholy anti 0"
these clumsy machines is a delight to him, which no grease is permi to
diminish, all that he can et being devoted to the shaggy hair of hisun-
turbaned head. For the hgnbians, in general, allow the hair of the head to
grow long ; and seldom shave, or wear a cap, except in the Nooba district, as
at Ben, and a few other places; and though less attentive to his toilettethan
the long-haired Ababdeh, a well-greased Nubian does not fail to rejoice in
his shining shoulders.

A certain portion of land is irrigated by each water-wheel, and the wealth
of an individual is estimated by the number of these machines, as in other
countries by farms or acres of land; and, as is reasonable to suppose, in a
hot climate like Nubia, they prefer the employment of oxen for the arduous
duty of raising water, to drawing it, like the Egyptian feﬂﬁh, by the pole and
bucket of the M60]: The consequence of this is, that the tax on water-
wheels falls very heavily on the Nubian, who also feels that on date trees
much more than the Egyptian peasant. Hence arises the increased migra-
tion of Banihras to Cairo; whither, in spite of a government prohibition, they
fly ftom the severely taxed labour of tilling the ground, to the more proﬁt.
able occupation of servants, particularly in the Frank quarter, where higher
wages are paid, and where the Nubian is preferred to the Egyptian for his
greater honesty.

About twenty years ago, and even before that time, the Nuhians were
very generally employed in places of trust, about the houses of the rich, like
the Gallegos in Lisbon; they were always engaged as pin-ten, and the name
of “ Berberee" amt-cred to “ Le Suisae" in a Parisian mansion. But of
late they have greatly increased in numbers, and are taken ashouse servants,
andeven asgrootns,anoﬂce towhichthesﬂ'lld‘ﬂ edeofoldwouldbare
thought itimpossiblefor a Berbereetoasplre. 'lhatthey are morebonest

