 

252

d. uxx stcsats oa staxxx at. scan.

The best read to the Birket el I_{orn
is by Senhoor, which is 11 miles from
Medeeneh, and 6 from the lake. At
Senhoor are the extensive mounds of
a large town, but without any ruins.
By applying to the shekh of Senhoor,
a boat may be obtained for crossing
the lake. The ruins near the lake
are at Kom Weséem to the eastward,
at Dimdy or Netba to the north, and
at Kasr Kharoon to the southwest.
There are also a few remains on the
shore itself, particularly at two places
called El Hammam, or “the Baths.”

The lake is about 85 miles long.
and a little more than 7 broad in the
widest part, and has received its
name, Birket el 150m, “ the lake of
of the horn," from its form, which is
broad at the eastern end, and curves
to a point at its opposite extremity.
Towards the middle is an island,
called Gezeeret el _I_(orn, in which
report has incorrectly spoken of ruins.
For though. from its numerous ﬁs-
sures, the rocky table hill that rises
in the centre has the appearance of a
building at a distance, this is dis-
proved by closer examination, and I
found nothing there but a few bricks.
What appeared most unaccountable
- in this island was the existence of
horned snakes, one of which I killed
near the shore.

The lake is of little depth, and
though I sounded in several places I
found what is considered the deepest
part to be only 28; feet. The water
is brackish, and even salt, particularly
in summer, before the inundation has
poured into it a supply of fresh water.
It is partly fed by this, and partly by
springs, which are probably derived
from ﬁltrations from the Nile, over a
bed of clay. The shores are barren,
and at the N. W. corner the hills ap-
proach to within the distance of a
mile. If the reservoir discovered by
M. Linant be the artiﬁcial lake men-
tioned by Herodotus, Pliny, and
Strabo, the Birket el Bonn still pos-

nom 16. — CAIRO To me noon.

 

Sect. II.

sesses a claim to the name of Lake

Merrie, as is shown by Herodotus
saying that it “ makes a bend to the
westward, and runs inland along the
mountains above Memphis, emptying
itself, according to the statement of
the natives, into the Syrtis of Libya
by an underground channel." It will
also prove that Herodotus has united
in his description the canal, and the
natural, as well as the artiﬁcial lake.
Pliny too in one place calls the Lake
Maris a large canal, and, in another,
speaks of it as “ having been between
the Arsino’lte and Memphita names,
250 Roman miles in circumference,
or, according to Mutianus, 450, and
50 paces deep, made by order of king
Morris, distant 70 miles from Mem-
phis.” His expression “ﬂit,” seems
to imply that it no longer existed in
his time; and if so, he must have had
in view a different lake from the
modern Birket el Korn. The same
remark applies to Strabo, who places
the lake much more to the S. E.;
and from his mention of two months
of the canal that communicated with
the lake, one of which was used dur-
ing the low Nile, for letting off the
water wanted for irrigation, it is evi-
dent he could not have had in view
the present Birket el Earn. Strabo’s
account of two months of the canal,
which ran by the Heracleopolite
name on the right, towards Libya
(i. e. on the western side of it), to the
Arsino'ite, so that the canal had a
double mouth, and enclosed between
its two channels a portion of the
island, in which the Heracleopolite
nome stood, evidently alludes to two
channels or canals from the Nile, that
took the water into the Arsino'ite name
to feed the lake. One of them, I
imagine, left the Nile some distance
to the south, and ran diagonally along
the Libyan hills, where the Bahr
Yoosef still ﬂows; and the other left
it much lower down to the eastward
of the Fyoém,— as an auxiliary canal
still does, in the neighbourhood of
Benisooef. It was probably at the

