 

 

U. Egypt.

there, 9 cubits in length. They also
state that his appearance was always
looked upon as a great blessing, be-
ing followed by the prosperous con-
dition of the whole of Egypt. They
celebrate gymnastic games in his
honour. in the manner of the Greeks,
at which they contend for prises, con-
sisting of cattle, chain, and skins.

“ On in uiring why l’erseus was
in the habit of appearing to them
alone, and why they differed from the
rest of the Egyptians in having gym.
nastic games, they replied that Per.
sens was a native of their city, and
that Banana and Lynceus. being
Chemtnites, emigrated into Greece.
They then showed me the genealogy
of those 2 persons, bringing it down
to Perseus; and stated that the latter
having come to Egypt for the same
reason given by the Greeks, to carry
off the head of the Gorgon ﬁ-otn
Libya, visited their country and re.
cognised all his relations. They ad-
ded that when he came to Egypt he
knew the name of Chemmis from his
mother; and the games were cele-
brated in compliance with his wishca"

This tale doubtless originated in
the crcdulity of the Greeks, and in
their endeavour to trace resemblances
in other religions with the deities or
personages of their own mythology;
or, if a similar story were really told
to the historian by the Egyptians
themselves, it could only have been
fabricated by that crafty people, to
ﬂatter the vanity of Greek strangers,
whose inquiries alone would audice
to show the readth modeof prac-
tising such a deception. Perseus
was no more an Egyptian deity than
Macedo; and it is still a matter of
doubt to what deities in the Egyptian
Pantheon these two names are to be
referred.

The notion of the great antiquity
of l’anopolis seems to hare been tn-
ditionally maintained em to the
times of the Modems; and Leo Afri-
canus considers it “ the oideﬂ city of
all Egypt,“ having. as be anppoam.

ROUTE 23. — 2mm.

 

821

“ been founded by Ekhtnitn, the son
of Misraim. the offspring of Cash,
the son of Hans.” it seems to have
suﬂ'ered much at the period of the
Arab conquest; and to such anes-
tent was the fury of the inveders car-
ried against this devoted city, that
“ nothing was let! of its buildings but
their foundations and ruined walls,
and all the columns and stones of any
site were carried to the other side of
the river, and used in the embellish-
ment of Menshéiih.

ln Pococke's time Ekhtnitn was
the residence of a powerfbl chief.
who took from ltths titleol'em‘er or
prince of Ekhmitn. His family,
which was originally from Barbary,
established itself here three or four
generations before, and obtained from
the Sultan the government of this
part of the country, upon condition
of paying an annual tribute. But
their name and inﬂuence have now
ceased. and. like the Hawks Arabs.
once so well known in these districts,
the princes of Ekhmirn are only
known from the accounts of old tra-
vellers, and the traditions of the
people. They show their tombs, with
those of their slaves; and in the
cemetery, near the ruins, is the tomb
of the patron of the town, Shekh
Abou'l _l_(asim. Boats. ostrich eggs.
and Inscriptions are hung up within
it as eavotos to the saint; and a tree
within the holy precincts is studded
with nails, driven into it by persons
suﬂ'ering from illness. in the hopes of
a cure. Near this is the tomb of
Bir el Abbad. above mentioned. It
was at Ekhmim that Nestor-ins, aner
16 years' exile. ended his days, and
was buried in the middle of the 5th
century.

Pococke speaks of some convents
near Ekhtnim. one called "of the
Martyrs, " mentioned by the Arab
historian Macriai. and another about
two miles further in a wild valley,
which is composed of grottoes in the
rock. and a brick chapel covered with
Coptic inscriptions. Near this is a

r 5

