   

I126; Inomnnt SCL-—-1ekmuaat'r0rlnmelt Ehnmh'iVL

thntheEgyptianaia certain; that they-peak the truthtnao frequentlyia
equally an; but theyareaometitnea leatclean and le- acuta; thoughtha'r
mental slowne- does not new to interfere with their phyaieal quickness and
theirpowerofrunningia notmrpaaaed by thetnoataetive
anaehedtotheireountry and theircountry'lnen, like the Swiaaandother in-
habitantaof poordiatrietawhoaeek theirfortunea abroad,they alwaya held

in foreigntowna; and one Nubian servant never fails to bringa
daily levee of Ethiopian: toa Cairene house, pouring forth an unceaaing
dream of unintelligible worda, in a jargon which has obtaimd for than the
meofﬂuéhapplied hythe Arahatnucbin theaameaenaeaatheBcr-
lav-oiofthe Greeks- Brare and independent in character, they differ lien in
theae respect: from the Egyptians; and in me parts of Nubia, particularly
in the team or Know district, their constant feuds keep up a warlike spirit,
in which their habit of going about armed enablea them frequently to in-
dulge. Those who know how to read and write are in e far greater propor-
tion than in Egypt among the same class; for with the exception of their
chiefs. they have no wealthy or upper orders. But their atudiea do not lean
to induce sobriety, and, like the black, they are fond of intoxicating liquor-a.
They extract e brandy and aaort of wine from the date fruit, aswell as
we. and Larisa, a fermented drink made from barley, bread, and many
other things, which are found to furnish this imperfect kind of beer; and
rum or brandy are a very acceptable present to the Nubian, even more to
than the three they so oheu ask for— soap, oil, and gunpowder.

 

u. r.
ROUTE 30. Contra Syene to Paremhole - 16
Taitzi - - 2
ASOUAN (Ir rmun) ro nna, ar Taphis . . 14
wana (neasuazn raon VILLA!!! Talmia . . 8
ro utmost). Tutzis . . go
Mlles. Pselcia - - 18
Aswan to Dnbod (W. bank) - 15‘ Corte .. - 4
Tlﬁl (W-) - - 22 Hierasycaminon 4
Kalabehee (W.) - 61 . . -—
Cerf Homyn 0v.) 99 (About 72i- Enghsh miles) - 80
Daklteh (W.) - 10‘ .
Koortee (\v.) - 3 Asouan to Maharraka being about
113m“ (We) .. 88. miles by water-
Sabéoa (wd - 19! On the opposite side of the river,
Dcrr (1-3.) and Amada on op- the ”"9""! 8““ “'0'“
poﬁte bank) - - - 29 " "

Hiemycaminon to Contra Pselcis l 1
Contra Talmis 2-!
Contra Taphia 10
Philte - - 24

132;

The distances given in the Itine-

rary of Antoninus, from Syene Syene '3
(Asouan) to Hierasycaminon ( Mahnr- 72

 

rake), are calculated by land.
They are aafollow : — being a difference of eight Roman

