 

 

423

SECTION V.
N U B I A.

Preliminary Observations.

a. Counties" or we Eormaas aan Roxane aaora Pull... sun at:
Fran Cannon—b. Tn: Monaan Nuataas, oa Baaﬁaaae.

aoora soon
30 Asouan, by Philc, to Derr- 426 8! Derr to Aboosimbel, and
was. Halfeh . - 435

a. The frontier of ancient Egypt was properly at Phila; but southern
Ethiopia was conquered by the Phntaohs of the 16th and lath dynasties: and
though anerwards partly abandoned, was again included within the limits of
the Egyptian territory, after the accession of the Ptolemies.

Among the early Pharaohs who conquered the counuy. was Thothmes 1.,
who extended his arms as far as the island of Argo, where he left a monument,
now known by the name of Hagar e' dihab, “ the golden stone." Thothmee
Ii. penetrated to Napata, now El Berkel, the capital of Lower Ethiopia; and
the third of that name appears to have extended his dominion still farther.

The invasion of the Cesare, who extended their conquests under Feminine,
prafect of Egypt in the time of Augustus, as far as Napata, was owing to
an incursion of the Ethiopians. who had penetrated to Syene, and over-
whelmed the garrison stationed theie to protect the Egyptian frontier.

Napata, the capital of queen Candace, was, according to Pliny, 870 Ro-
man miles above the cataracts, and is supposed to be El Berkel of the present
day, where pyramids and extensive ruins denote the former existence of a
large city.

Strabo says, the Ethiopians, above Syene. consisted of the Troglo.
dytc, Blemmyes. Hubs, and Megabari. The Megabari and Blemmyes
inhabited the eastern desert. north of Mero'e to the frontiers of Egypt, and
were under the dominion of the Ethiopians. “I. Ichthyophagi lived
on the shore of the Red Sea; the Troglodyt- from Bereuiee south-
wards, between it and the Nile; and the Nubae. a Libyan nation, wereon
the left bank, and independent of Ethiopia.

Pliny says, the only cities of Ethiopia found and taken by Petrooius, on
his march to Napata, were I’selcis, Primis, Aboecis, Phthuris, Cambtsis,
Attena, and Stadisis, remarkable for its cataract, which, the naturalist says,
“ deprived the inhabitants of the neighbourhood of their hearing.” He then
mentions the distances from Syene to Mero's‘. which some computed at
695 as. r., others at 600, or. according to the observations of Nero's spies,
862, with the following intermediate measurements: _

