 

 

Em”-

It hence obtained the title of the
sisterlibrary,and itwasherethatthe
mono volumes belonging to the
kings of P us, presented to
Cleopatra by are Antony, were de-
'ted. These were the two public
maria mentioned by Epiphanius.
1% library of the museum was
unfortunately destroyed during the
war of Julius Cesar with the Alex-
andrians. For, in order to prevent
his aggressors cutting 06‘ his commu-
nication with the sea. being obliged
to set ﬁre to the Egyptian, or as Plu-
tarch says his own, ﬂeet, the ﬂames
accidentally caught some of the houses
on the port, and spreading thence to
the quarter of the Bruchion, burnt
the library, and threatened destruction
to the whole of the museum and the
adjoining buildings. The museum
itself escaped, but the famous library,
consisting of 400,000 volumes, which
had cost so much trouble and expense
for ages to collect, was lost for ever ;
and in it doubtless some very valuable
works of antiquity, many of whose
names may even be unknown to us.
The collection in the Serapion was
also exposed to severe losses, at a sub-
sequent period, during the troubles
that occurred in the Roman empire.
Many of the books are supposed to
have been destroyed on those occa-
sions, particularly at the time when
the Sarapion was attacked by the
Christians; and Orosius says he was
at that time a witness of its empty
shelves. We may, however, conclude
that these losses were afterwards in
some degree repaired, and the num-
ber of its volumes still farther in-
creased; though later contributions
were probably not of the same im-
portance as those of an earlier period:
and Gibbon goes so far as to suppose
that if the library was really destroyed
by Amer. its contents were conﬁned
to the productions of an age when re-
ligious controversy constituted the
principal occupation of the Alexan-
drians. “ And,“ adds the historian,

ROUTE. — ALEXANDRIA — LIBRARY.

 

85

monophysite controversy were indeed
consumed in the public baths, a phi-
losopher ma allow, with a smile,
that it was it timately devoted to the
beneﬁt of mankind.” But, notwith-
standing the injuries sustained by the
Ssrapion, during those tumulta which
ruined so many of the monuments of
Alexandria, which converted every
public building into a citadel, andsuh-
jected the whole city to the horrors of
internal war, many, doubtless, of the
ancient volumes still remained with-
in its precincts; and the Caliph Omar
will for ever hear the odium of having
devoted to destruction that library,
whose numerous volumes are said to
have suﬂiced for six months for the
use of the 4000 baths of this immense
city.

It is related of John the Gramma-
rian, the last disciple of Ammonius,
surnamed Philoponus from his labo-
rious studies of grammar and philo-
sophy, that having been admitted to
the friendship of Amer, the lieutenant
of the Caliph Omar, he took advan-
tage of his intimacy with the Arab
general to intercede for the preserva-
tion of the library of the captured
city, which “alone, among the spoils
of Alexandria had not been appropri-
ated by the visit and the seal of the
conqueror. Amrou (Amer) was in-
clined to gratify the wish of the
grammarian, but his rigid integrity
refused to alienate the minutest ob-
ject without the consent of the caliph;
and the answer of Omar, inspired by
the ignorance of a fanatic, 'if these
writings of the Greeks agree with the
Book of God, they are useless. and
need not be preserved; if they disa-
gree, they are pernicious, and ought
to be destroyed.” doomed them to
destruction. Such was the sentence
said to have been pronounced by the
impetuous Omar. The Modems,
however, to this day, deny its truth;
and Gibbon observes, that “ the soli-
tary report of a stranger (Abulphe-
ragius), who wrote at the end of can

“if the ponderous mass of Arian and years, on the conﬁnes of Media, is

