 

396

king Osirei is the next subject; and,
alighting from his chariot, he enters
the temple of Amunre, to present his
captives and booty to the protecting
deity of Thebes. He then slays
with a club the prisoners of the two
conquered nations, in the presence of
Amuare, the names of whose towns
and districts are attached to other
ﬁgures on the lower part of the wall.

The order of the other historical
subjects commences at the S. E. angle
(marked C 8.). In the lower line the
Egyptians attack the infantry of an
Asiatic enemy in the Open ﬁeld,—
the Rot ii-no, or Retenno; whose
dress and colour, if they are the same
as those represented in the Theban
tombs, prove them to have inhabited
a country very far to the north of
Egypt. The Egyptians subdue them
and make many captives; and their
march, perhaps during their return, ‘
is directed through a series of districts,
some of which are at peace with,
others tributary to, them. The in-
habitants of one of these fortiﬁed
cities come out to meet them, bring-
in presents of vases and bags of
go d, which, with every demonstra-
tion of respect, they lay before the
monarch, as he advances through
their country. He aherwards meets
with opposition, and is obliged to
attack a hostile army, and a strongly
fortiﬁed town, situated on a high
rock, and surrounded by water, with
the exception of that part which is
rendered inaccessible by the steepness
of the cliff on whose verge it is built.
It seems to defy the Egyptian army,
but the enemy are routed and sue
for peace. (This is at the angle of
the wall.)

Their arms are a spear and battle-
axe, and they are clad in a coat of
mail, with a short and close dress.
The name of the town, Kansas, and
the early date of the ﬁrst year of the
king's reign, leave little room to
doubt that the defeat of the Canaanites
is here represented.

DESCRIPTION

 

In the other compartments is re-

SectIV.

arms.

presented the return of the Pharaoh
to Thebes, leading in triumph the
captives he has taken in the war,
followed by his son and a “royal
scribe,” with a body of

soldiers, “the al attendants, who
have aceompani him to the foreign
land of the Rot-ﬁ-no."

The succession of countries and
districts he passes h on his so-
turn is singularly but ingeniously de-
tailed : a woody and well-watered
country is indicated by trees and lakes,
and the consequence of each town by
the sire of the fort that represents it;
bearing a slight analogy to the simple
style of description in Xenophon’s
retreat.

The Nile is designated by the cro-
codiles and ﬁsh peculiar to that river;
and a bridge serves as a communica-
tion with the opposite bank. This
is very remankable, as it shows they
had bridges over the Nile at that early
period; but being drawn as seen from
above, we cannot decide whether it
was made with arches or rafters. A con-
course of the priests and distinguished
inhabitants of a large city comes forth
to greet his arrival; and he then pro-
ceeds on foot to offer the spoil, and cap-
tives he has taken, to the deity. Though
probable. it is by no means certain, that
Thebes is here represented, especially
as the name of that city does not occur
in the hieroglyphics. The deputation
consists of the “ priests, and the
chief men of the upper and lower
countries; " it should therefore rather
refer to his entrance into Egypt; and
Tania would agree better with the
hieroglyphics. But Thebes is more
likely to be represented in Theban
sculptures. The battled ediﬁces on
the road, bearing the name of the
lting, appear to be out of Egypt;
and may either point out the places
where he had a palace, or signify that
they were tributary to him.

In the compartments of the upper
line, the Egyptians attack the enemy
in the open ﬁeld, and oblige them to
take shelter in s fortiﬁed town, situ-

