 

30.1 mmn—afammoaoor. SeeLlII.
byosea;-dthejaiee,whiehisre-,hhnd‘-yotherpd. Ba
eeivediaaae-theareaervoir,ispnt'wasthepuoad‘letu's,theuie
iataabdler,wberaitsemainstillit of Heaven, ad the me I the
“ﬁdhwﬂcbhishkuilooa: HsoIeew-aatlelin-
outaaddriedinpots. tportant in imp-ting intellect-l

Invin'ting Osl-esaaya(Hsr-a- giltstimtheDeino-annhnh
aﬂW-lMI-rsoﬁwnrﬁxmmmﬁngmmmmd
dandmutotheNikuﬂera-ithesoohandinreewdingthevi.
mmtheboatbeingsentontothat tnousaeﬁomdtheMwbenad-
plaee;orreversethisincomiogdown mittedtotheregiensofetermlhap-
theriver. Aboutoneqtnrterofthe.pineas. Themderntowastandson

CopticﬂimounEortbe“tua'ng,'
andthepreia O orEisadded for
euphony, from thehostility of Arabic
against all words beginning with an
Bar 8b, followed by a consonant.
The Arabs pretend that it was called
after Oshmoon, the son of Mist, or
Misraim.

About 25 years ago part of the

beautiful portico of the temple of I

Thoth, at Oshmoon‘yn, was still
standing, having the names of Philip
(Aridcus) and Alexander (the son
of Alexander), under whom Ptolemy
Lagus governed Egypt. But being
unfortunately built of calcareous
stone, it was destroyed by the Turks,
and burnt for lime like the monu-
ments of Antino’é; and little now
remains to induce the traveller to
visit itslonely mounds.

Hennapolis was a city of great
antiquity, and it was the capital of
one of the early names of Egypt.
Its original Egyptian name was evi-
dently maoun, Hermopolis being
a Greek appellation, derived from
the worship of Thoth, the god who
presided there. and who was supposed
to answer to Hermes, or Mercury.

Thoth being the presiding divinity
of llermopolis, the ibis and cyno-
eephalus, his peculiar emblems, oc-
curred very ohen in the sculptures of
the portico; and his name and ﬁgure
were introduced more frequently

 

During the high Nile the plain is
3 covered with water, but a raised dyke
i leads to Oshmooniyn, and the site of
i Hermopolis may be visited by making
' a slight dflotr.

The tombs of the ancient city lie
at the base of the Libyan hills to the
westward, where numerous ibis mum-
mies have been buried, many of which
are found deposited in small cases,
and perfectly preserved. The cyno-
cephalus ape is also met with, em-
halmed and buried in the same
consecrated spot. It is here that
Ibeum, or the Nhip (of the Copts),
probably stood; for it is evident that
the position given it in the Itine-
rary of Antoninus is incorrect; and
Ibeum, the burying-place of the
sacred birds of Hermopolis, could
not have been 24 miles distant to
the north of that city. Not far from
these tombs is a curious sculptured
stels, on the nummulite rock of
Gebel Toéna, representing the king
Atin-re- Balthan with his queen. wor-
shipping the Sun, which darts forth
rays terminating in human hands; a
subject similar to those in the grottoes
of Tel el Amsrna. They are accom-
panied by two of their daughters.

 

holding sistra. Below the ﬁgures

