 

122

every one to be provided with a mode
of conveyance best suited to his taste.
In going out to see Cairo the best
plan is to hire a donkey for the day or
by the course. There is no dimculty
in ﬁnding them, but as the drivers
always try to impose on strangers, it is
as well to send and make an agree-
ment beforehand in engaging one.
Ladies may take sedan chairs if they
prefer them. The hire of a donkey
for the day ought to be ﬁve piastres,
anda triﬁe for the boy: this last is
not necessary when by the course.

8- PLACE! OF PUBLIC IIOOITs-I—
LIBRARIES.

Cairo scarcely offers any places of
public resort. Within the last few
years a theatre has been set on foot,
in the Frank quarter, which is main-
tained by subscription among the
Europeans, the actors, with the es-
oeption of the manager, being .dilet-
tanti. The manager, who receives
a salary, is an actor by profession,
and has the arrangement of the pieces
and other minutiae with which ama-
teurs are not supposed to be ac-
quainted; there is also a person who
superintends the scenery and the ma-
térisl of the house. Strangers who
are desirous of obtaining admission
have only to apply to any subscriber
the day before, and tickets are sent
for the next representation, which are
always gratis. and it may not be
amiss to observe, that if any attempt
to charge trarellers for tickets is made
by the innkeepers (to whom they are
given, not for their sakes, but as a
favour to strangers), it should be
peremptorily resisted; and it would
be a piece of justice, as well to the
subscribers as to future travellers, to
represent and put a stop to the im-
position. -

One of the most useful institutions
for those who visit Egypt is the li-
brary of the Egyptian Society, also in
the Frank quarter. Any one who
wishes to become a member is pro-

posed and balloted for in the usual

CAIRO. — PUBLIC PLACES.

 

Sect. 11.

way, and may have the satisfaction of
promoting a very useful institution.
Strangers who are only passing
through the country may obtain tick-
ets of admission, and the use of the
books, during one whole month.

There is also a society of a simi-
lar kind formed, in 1849, principally
for the purpose of publishing docu-
ments connected with Egypt and the
East. It is called the Egyptian Lite-
rary Association, and members are
chosen and strangers admitted much
in the same manner as in the other.

A shop has been Opened near the
Basaar of the Khan Khaleel for
Arabic and Turkish works; and En-
ropean books may be bought of Mr.
Waltnas, at the Egyptian Society’s
Rooms, and of Mr. Castello in the
F rauk Street.

Time is a library belonging to Ib-
rahim Pasha, consisting of Arabic
and Turkish books, which, though
formed since the year 1830, contains
already a great number of volumes,
comprising the works of the most
noted Arab authors, in manuscript,
besides many printed books.

Ibrahim Pasha has also begun a
collection of Egyptian antiquities;
and a veto being put to the removal of
antiquities from Egypt, great hopes
have been entertained of the success of
his museum. It is more than twelve or
ﬁfteen years since this collection has
been commenced, and in 1831 a Turk
was employed at Thebes in excavat-
ing, and preventing'all access to the
under-ground treasures not sanc-
tioned by government authority. I
therefore expected, on returning to
Egypt lately, to ﬁnd many objects
of interest at the palace, where they
are now deposited. My surprise and
disappointment were therefore great,
when I found nothing but a confused
mass of broken mummies and cases,
some imperfect tablets, and various
fragments, which, had they been capa-
ble of being spoilt, would have been
rendered valueless by the damp of the
place; and I can safely say that there

