 

334

mart of Indian commerce, from the}
foundation of Berenice, till its de-
struction in the reign of Diocletian ;
and though, as in Strabo’s time, the
Myos Hormos was found to be a
more convenient port than Berenice,
and was frequented by almost all the
Indian and Arabian ﬂeets, Coptos
still continued to be the seat of com-
merce. Myos Hormoa was after-
wards succeeded by Philoteras por—
tus, which had formerly played a part
in the time of the Pharaohs under the
name of JEnnum, and this again gave
place, at a later period, to the modern
town of Kossayr. Coptos, too, was
supplanted by [Soon which continued
to be the depbt of all merchandise
from the Red Sea, during the reign of
the Egyptian sultans, until in its
turn it gave place to l_{_eneh.

It was to Coptos that many of the
stones quarried in the porphyry and
other mountains of the eastern desert,
were transported; for which purpose
large roads were constructed, at con-
siderable labour and expense, over
sandy plains, and through the sinu-
Osities of valleys. But that of the
emerald mines took the direction of
Contra Apollinopolis; nor does it
appear that any other communication
was established with them from Cop-
tos, than by the Bercnice road.

Elian tell us that the Coptites
worshipped Isis, and relates a story
of the respect paid by scorpions to her
telnple. He also states, that the
female dorcas was sacred in this city.
It was here that Isis was supposed to
have received the ﬁrst account of her
husband’s death, —a circumstance
which, according to Plutarch, gave
rise to the name of Coptos, signify-
ing, as he supposes, “ mourning,” or,
as others say, " deprivation.” But it
is needless to make any remark on
the absurdity of deriving an Egyptian
name from Greek, which he, like so
many others, were in the habit of
doing; or to observe that the mourn-
ing of Isis and the death of Osiris
are a pure allegory. And the traveller

ROUTE 25.—§anan 'ro Insane.

 

SectIII.

will look in vain in the alluvial plain
for the “ precipice,” whence the ass
was annually thrown down by the
Coptites, in token of their hatred of
Typhon, unless it proves to have been
an artiﬁcial eminence made for that
allegorical ceremony.

The town of E' Shﬁrafa, to the
north of Coptos, is so called from
having been founded and inhabited
by some Shereefs, or descendants of
Mohammed; who are distinguished
from other Moslems by the peculiar
right of wearing a green turban; a
custom first introduced by one of the
Baharite Memlook sultans of Egypt,
El Ashraf Shabén, who reigned from
a. n. 1363 to 1377.

Aboolfeda states that the town of
Eobt was a wagf, “entail," of the
Shereefs, though it appears rather to
have belonged to the Haraméya of
Mecca and Medeeneh. How the
inhabitants of Coptos came to be

Shiites (Sheéﬁh) “.5, as he says

they were, he does not explain; and
it would be curious to make inquiries
at Coptos if this was really the case
in former times.

Contra Coptos was probably at
Dowaide.

At _I_t’oos (or Goes), in Coptic Kos-
Birbir, is the site of Apollinopoh's
Form. In the time of Aboolfeda,
about a. n. 1344, it was the next city
in size and consequence to Fostat,
the capital, and the emporium of the
Arabian trade; butit is now reduced
to the rank of a small town, and the
residence of a acizcr. Till latelya
gateway or pylon stood there, of the
time of Cleopatra and Ptolemy Alex-
ander I., “ the gods Philometores
Soteres," whose names were in the-
Greek dedication to Aroeris, on the
cornice, as well as in sculptures of
the lower part.

At a sibéel, or “ fountain built for
a charitable purpose," is a monolith,
now converted into a tank, with a
hieroglyphic inscription on the jambs,
containing the name of Ptolemy Phi-

