 

Barl-

mos mum. ron m JOURNEY. 3

b. entries osam. son a rooster nt aorr'r.

Before leaving Malta, it will be better to nuke purchases of certain things
nae or II- nece-ary in E according to the wants of each individual.
I “I therefore give a list those most useful to a traveller, marking such
uﬁonldbetaksnhotn Europewithan E, thoeewhicb may heobtainedat
Alasandriawithan A,andtboeewbichneednot bebought before reacbin
(or,wbicb arehetter,at)Caim,witha C. (See Route 1. No. 5. and Sect. 9. as
In; and basin, E. or A.: if of copper Common soap, A. or C.

audio theTurkishstyle.at A. or C. Lamp, E. or cloth fanéoe, A. or C.
Mouser met A" and othersat Kitchen-cloths, E. or A.

C. Towels and table-cloths, E.

Capes (Seg‘dee). A. or C. (Sea Sheets, horse-hair mattress, pillows,

Route 1. No. 5.) and pillow-cases, &c.. E.

To thosewbo with to beentirely protected at night from intruders, I cannot
do better than recommend a contrirance of Mr. Levinge’s, which he imagined
during his travels in the East, and which is equally adapted to a boat, It house,

"—7

 

 

 

 

c 7—-

 

 

 

 

ora tent. It consists of a pair of sheets (a), about six feet long, sewed
together at the bottom and the two sides, except where the piece (c) is attached
to them, and by which
you get in. To the
upper end (:1) is ad-
ded a thin piece of
muslin, serving as a
mosquito not (b),
which is drawn tight
ntthe end byatapeor
string, serving to sus-
pend it to a nail (f).
A short way from the
end (at a) are fastened
loops, through which
a cane is threaded. to
form a circle for dis-
tending the net. This
cane is in three pieces,
about three feet long,
ﬁtting into each other
by octets. After getting in by the opening of c you draw the tape tight to
close its mouth, and tuck it in under the mattress, and you are secure from
intruders, whether sleeping at night, or sitting under it by day. Orer the
a, the blankets, or coverlid, are put.

wo or three blankets, 8.. or hat-
was at A. which will fold into
four. (See Route 1. No. 5.)

Mosquito net, E.
iron bedstead to fold up, E.
0! a Cafass bedstead. C.

a 2

