 

--- “h- .

292

hills approached the cultivated plain,
and left a narrow passage between it
and the Nile; as may be seen at
Shelth Embérak, Gebel e' Tayr,
Téhneh, Kom-Ahmar, Isbéyda, and
several other places; having the two-
fold object of guarding these passes,
and of substituting the barren rock,
as a foundation to their houses, for
the more useful soil of the arableland.

The modern cemetery of Minieh is
at Zowyet el Myiteén, on the eastern
bank, between Sooadee and Kom-
Ahmar. Thrice every year they pay
a visit of ceremony to the tombs, in
the months of Showal (Eed e‘ Sog-
heir),of Zulhtig(Eed el Kelreér), and
Regeb. The visit lasts 7 days; the
15th of the month, or the full moon,
being the principal day. The mode
of ferrying over the bodies of the dead,
accompanied by the ululations of wo-
men, and» the choice of a cemetery on
the opposite side of the river, cannot
fail to call to mind the customs of the
ancient Egyptians; and it is remark-
able that they have not selected a spot
immediately in front of the town, but
have preferred one near the tombs of
their pagan predecessors. It was the
old Egyptian custom of ferrying over
the dead that gave rise to the fable of
Charon and the Styx,which Diodorus
very consistently traces from the fu-
neral ceremonies of Egypt. —- See
above, p. 204.

At Sooddee is a rum distillery
belonging to the Pasha. It was
formerly superintended by an Italian
named Domenico; who, ﬁnding his
proﬁts did not answer his expecta-
tions, quitted the service of the Pasha;
and the rum was thenceforward en-
trusted to a native, without waiting
for permission from the PrOphet.
Hereabouts are several extensive
sugar plantations. Sooadee has pro-
bably succeeded to the site of an
ancient town. It has mounds, and a
few stones of old buildings; and
above, at the corner of the mountain,
are some grottoes, or tombs, in the
rock.

some 22. —— rdrnsa TO osroo'r.

 

Set-LIE.

About two miles beyond Sooidee
are some old limestone quarries; and
at Kris: 113m are the mounds of an
ancient town. Its name signiﬁes the
“ red mound," which it has received
from the quantity of pottery that lies
scattered over it, and the burnt walls
of its crude brick houses. In the
limestone hills above the old town
are several sepulchral grottoes, with
sculptures representing agricultural
scenes and other subjects, common in
ancient Egyptian tombs. In one of
them are two boots, or bar-is, of a
peculiar construction, with a double
mast, and three rudders, which, from
the appearance of their folding sail,
resemble a Chinese boat more nearly
than any met with on the Egyptian
monuments. These tombs are in
two tiers, one in the upper, and
another in the lower part of the hill.
The latter are very ancient, having
the names of Shofo (Suphis, or
Cheops), Papa, and others of that
early time; while some of those in
the upper tier, judging from the style
of the sculptures. appear to date in
the time of the 18lh dynasty. This,
too, is a respectable antiquity, not
less than 1300 or 1400 years before
our era.

It is uncertain of what place Kom
Ahmar occupies the site. Some have
supposed it to be Mason; but it is
possible that Alabastrorr may have
stood here; and this seems con-
ﬁrmed by information I received
from the Arabs in my last visit to
Egypt, who had found an alabaster
quarry in the mountains to the north-
east, about a quarter of an hour's
march inland, to which an ancient
road leads from the Nile.

That Alabastron was not. as fre-
quently supposed, in the desert, is
sufﬁciently shown by Pliny, and by
an inscription I found on a rock in
Wadee Foiiltheér, stating the writer
to have been a native of that town.
Ptolemy, too, merely gives it an in-
land 'po~ition, like Hermopolis, and
many other places in the valley of the

