 

270 some 19.—oanto 'ro convenes nv rm: DESERT.

ornament thenew mosk of the citadel,
and other works, is in the Wadee Om-
Argoob; a valley running into the
Wadee Moithil, which again falls
into the Wadee Sennoor, to the south
of the road leading to the convents.
There is also a gypsum quarry near
the Gebel Khaleel, on the north side
of the Wadee Arraba; and Wansleb
speaks of a ruined town in the same
neighbourhood.

In this part of the desert the moun-
tains are all limestone; like those
that border the valle of the Nile,
from Cairo southwa s to the sand-
stones of Hagar Silsili and its vicinity ;
which, with the few variations in the
strata about Cairo. the secondary
grés of the Red Mountain, and the
petriﬁed wood lying over the Gebel
Mokuttum, are the principal geo-
logical features of Egypt. In the
interior of the desert, however, about
latitude 28° 40’, begins a range of
primitive mountains, which Continues
thence, in a direction nearly parallel
with the see, even to Abyssinia. As
it goes southwards it increases in
breadth, branching off to the west-
ward, after passing the latitude of
Kossayr, and afterwards crosses the
Nile in the vicinity of Asouan. The
principal primitive rocks in the Mae-
see desert are the famous Egyptian
porphyry, various granites, serpen-
tines, and a few others; in the Ahab-
deh portion, the Breccia Verde,
slates, and micaceous, talcose, and
other schists. Along the coast, ge-
nerally, a short distance from the sea,
is another range of low limestone hills,
which borders the primitive ridge to
the east, as the others do to the west;
the lofty peaks of granite and other
primitive mountains rising between
them like vertebrae of the large back-
bone of the desert, one of which,
Ghareb, measures 6000 feet above
the sea.

The same formation occurs on the
other side of the sea in the peninsula
of Mount Sinai, where the limestone
is succeeded by sandstone beds that

 

Sean

separate it from the granite and other
primitive rocks.

The junction of the limestone and
sandstone in the Many desert takes
placeatabout latitude 98° 49’ tothe
south of Dayr Boles, and the primi-
tive rocks begin a few miles farther
down. As few are likely to visit this
desert, I shall only notice the most
remarkable places.

Gebel e' Zayt, “ the mountain of
oil,” is close to the sea, nearly opposite
Ras Mohammed, between latitude
27° 50’, and 28° 3’. It abounds in
petroleum, whence its name; and at
E' Gimsheh, a headland, terminating
the bayto the 8.8. W. ofit,aresome
sulphur mines, grottoea and inscrip-
tions in the Sinaitic character.

The porphyry quarries are at G“
e’ Dollies, “ the mountain of smoke.”
about the latitude of Manfaloot, and
27 miles from the Red Sea. They
are highly interesting, from their
having supplied Rome with stone for
columns and many ornamental pur-
poses. from the importance attached
to them by the ancients, and from the
extent of the quarries, the ruins there,
and the insight they give into the
mode of working that hard stone.
The remains consist of an Ionic tem-
ple, of the time of Trajan, left un-
ﬁnished, a town irregularly built of
rough stones, tanks, and two lar
wells, one cut in the porphyry roc ,
and the ruins of buildings in various
parts of the mountains.

The mention of a well sunk in the
porphyry rock may appear singular;
yet it is not from the difﬁculty of
cutting through so hard a substance,
but from its being made in a pri-
mitive rock; and it is probable that
it was only intended to catch the
water which occasionally runs down
the torrent-bed during the reins of
winter, and that it should be con-
sidered rather a reservoir than a well.

Roads lead from Gebel e’ Dokhan
in several directions, one to the Nile
at geneh, another to the Myos Hor-
mos, and others to different places;

