440

A little to the south is a small
grotto with hieroglyphics of the time
of Remesea IL; and in the hillsto
the westward are some chambers,
hewn in the rock, with several Coyﬁe
inscriptions ,o from one of which,
bearing the name of Diocletian, it
seems that they served as places of
refuge, during some of the early per-
secutions of the Christians. To the
south-west are ruins of baked brick,
with stone columns, of the low ages.

At Serra are the remains of what
was once perhaps a quay; but there
are no ruins of any ancient town in
the vicinity, though it also lays claim
to the site of Phthuris.

Opposite Wadee Haifa); are the
vestiges of three buildings. One is
a simple square of stone without
sculpture; another has several stone
pillars, the walls being of brick ; but
the third has been ornamented with a
number of columns, parts of which
still remain. Suﬂicicnt, however,
still exists to tell us that it was an
ancient Egyptian building; and that
it was, at least originally, commenced
by the third and fourth Thothmes,
of the eighteenth dynasty, and ap-
parently dedicated to Kueph.

The second cataract is a short walk
of about 4} miles above \Vadee
Halfeh. It is less interesting than
that of Asout’tn. but more extensive,
being a succession of rapids, which
occupy a space of several miles, called
Batu el Haggar, “ the belly of
stone.” On the west bank, just be-
low this roclty bed,is a high cliﬂ‘, from
which there is a line and command.
ing view of the falls; and this is the
ultima Thule of Egyptian travellers.

Scrunch. — A short day and a half,
or about 85 miles beyond W'adee
Halfeh, are the village and cataract of
Scrunch; where on either bank is a
small but interesting temple of the
third Thothmes.

That on the eastern side consists of
sportico: a hall parallel to it, ex-
tending across the whole breadth of
the naos, and one large and three

some 31. —rms—s.untsn.

 

Sect. V.

smallcharnbersinthebaehpart. It
stands in an extensive court or etiolo-
sure surrounded by a strong crude-
brick wall, commanding the river,
which runs below it to the westward.
In theporticoisatablet,bearingthe
name of Amunoph Ill. ; but on the
front ofthe naoa, to which are two
entrances, Thothmes III. is making
offerings to Totoubn, the God of
Samneh, and to Kneph, one of the
contemplar deities. The name of
Thothmes II. also occurs in the hiero-

glyphics; and those of Amunoph II.

and of the third Osirtssen, a monarch

of the seventeenth dynasty, and the

ancestor of Thothmes, are introduced

in another part of the temple.

That on the western bank, though
small, is of a more elegant plan, and
has a peristyle, or corridor, supported
by pillars on two of its sides; but to
cross the river it is necessary to put
up with a ruder raft than the pawn,
by which Strabo was carried over to
l’hilte, as it is merely formed of logs
of the «(tint palm, lashed together, and
pushed forward by men who swim
behind it.

This building only consists of one
chamber, about thirty feet by eleven,
with an entrance in front, and another
on the west side, opposite whose nor-
thern jamh, instead of a squate pillar,
is a polygonal column, with a line of
hieroglyphics, as usual, down its
central face. On the pillars king
Thothmes l H. is represented in com-
pany with Totoubn, and other deities
of the temple; and what is very re-
markable, his ancestor Osirtasen Ill.
is here treated as a god, and is seen
presenting the king with the emblem of
life. On the front wall is a tablet in
relief, with the name of Ames, the
ﬁrst, and of Thothmes II., the fourth,
Pharaoh of the eighteenth dynasty;
and mention is made of the city of
Thebes. But this tablet has been de-
faced by the hieroglyphics of another
cut in intaglio over it, apparently by
a Remeses.

At the upper end of the naos is a
sitting statue of gritstone, with the

