 

 

Egypt. noun lt—camo To run NATRON mes.

id to yield it, as well as “ the vici-
nity of Alexandria, near the lake
Hareotis, and the Isthmus of Sues."
loose is also brought by the caravans
h'otn Darfour; and from specimens I
aw in the bands of the Jellabs, whom
I met at the great Oasis, the latter
appears to be of very good quality.
It is much sought to give a pungency
m snuF.

There are several springs of fresh
water in the Natron valley, the purest
of which are at the convents (or rather
monasteries) to the S. ; that of Dayr
Bsramoos being slightly salt. The
water rises from and re on a bed
of clay, which I found close to Zakeek.
and at the base of the hills to the west-
ward; and I have no doubt, from
what I observed here, and at the
Cases, that it ﬁlters beneath the moun-
tains that separate the Wadee Natroén
from the Nile; and, being carried
over the clay which constitutes the base
of the Libyan chain, ﬁnds an exit in
these losr valleys, forming springs
of fresh water in places where the soil
is free from all saline matter, and'salt
springs or ponds of natron when the
earth, through which it passes from
the clay to the surface, presents that
foreign substance deposited of old in
the neighbouring strata. The same
is the case in tnany parts of Egypt;
and in support of this Opinion 1 need
only state, that the svater of all the
salt Wells becomes much sweeter
when a quantity has been quickly
taken out; proving the water itself to
be originally fresh, and rendered salt
by contact with earth containing saline
Ill-II“?-

It seems singular that the lakes
should rise so long after the high
hide, a period of nearly three months;
and this can only be explained by
the slowness of the water’s passage
through the strata of the mountains
intervening between the river and this
distant valley; vvlticlt,judging from
the time the hide eater takes to core
through the alluvial deposit of itshanks

to the edge of the desert. frequently
Eml-

 

241

not monethan amileor twooﬂ', appears
to be proportionate to the increase of
distance. The dip of the strata that
border the Natron valley, is towards
the north-east, whence it is that the
descenta to it and the adjacent Wadea
Fargh are more rapid to the west than
to the east; and this is consistent with
the losver level of the former valley.

The Wadee Natroén boasts a
very small population; the village of
Zaheek and the four monasteries, con-
taining altogether not more than 977
inhabitants, of which the village, as
before stated, has 200, and the con-
vents the remaining 77 ; — Dayr
Surit’tni 30 to 40, St. Macarius 22,
Amba Bishoi 13, and Dsyr Bars-
méos 7. The inmates of all these
monasteries are Cepts, though Dayr
Baramoos is said to be of Greek, as
the Suriani of Syrian, origin. They
offer little to interest a stranger, and
are inferior in size and importance to
those of St. Antony and St. Paul, in
the eastern desert, to which they also
yield in point of antiquity. They
are, however,quite as tvell built; and
some portions of them, particularly
the churches in the tower of St. Ma-
carius, are, perhaps, superior in point
of construction. Indeed, the slender
marble columns that adorn its upper
church are very elegant; and many
of the arches in the lower part of the
convent are far better than vre should
expect to ﬁnd in these secluded re-
gions.

Each community is governed by a
superior: some of the monlts are priests,
with the title of tather (Abtiona), and
the rest lay brethren.

Some of the monasteries have a
collection of books, rather than a
library, composed of Arabic, Coptic,
and Syriac M521, mostly relating to
the Church service and religious sub-

jects.

Mr. 'l‘attam, on his visit to these
monasteries, brought assay upwards
of fifty volumes; among which was
a treatise of I'Iuseltius. not previously

i known, and on his return, in “tithe

