440 _Roulc 58. FLORENCE. History.

government of the town was carried on by the nobles (Oi-am“) through
four (afterwards six) consuls, ' ‘ “ b a ’ of 1(1) " "
From 1207 onwards the judicial functions were entrusted to the Pedals,
a foreign nobleman of legal erudition elected for a period of six months.
afterwards increased to a year. The Florentines maintained their pristine
simplicity and virtue longer than was usual in Italian cities. The nobles.
however, lived in bitter feuds with each other, and after the assassination
of Buondelmonte on the Ponte Vecchio in 121!) were divided between the
two hostile camps of the Guelphs and the Ghibelliuu. Under the Emperor
Frederick II. the Ghibellines enjoyed a. brief period of supremacy, but on
his death in 1250 the Guelphs secured the upper hand. As in consequence
of these conﬂicts the sway of the nobility proved detrimental to the in-
terests of the city, the people in 1250 organised a kind of national guard
of their own, commanded by a ‘Capitano del Popolo', who was assisted by
a council of 12 ‘Ancients‘ (‘Anziani‘) and 36‘Corporals‘ (Caporali). About
the same time (1252) was ﬁrst coined the golden Florin, which soon became:
general standard of value, and marks the leading position taken by Florence
in the commerce of Europe. The guilds of the wool-weavers and cloth
makers maintained agents in Venice, Paris, Bruges, and London; Floren-
tine bankers had a. hand in the commerce of every nation, and, more
especially, exercised almost exclusive control over the money-marketot‘
France. The continuous feuds of the nobles brought the republic into
collision with other Tuscan towns, of which Siena and Pisa were con-
spicuous partizans of the Ghibellines. In 1260 the Florentines suﬂ‘ered a
crushing defeat on the Arbia, near Montaperti, which cost the Guelph
their supremacy in the city. The Ghibelline grandees proposed to nu
Florence to the ground and to transfer the seat of government to Empoli.
but the plan was successfully opposed by the noble Farinata degli Uberti.

0n the death of Manfred of Hohenstaufen at the battle of Benevssts
in 1266, the Guclphs regained their power, and in 1267 they elected Charla
of Anion as Signor for ten years. This election placed foreign princes in
the same position with regard to the republic as had been held by the
emperors, and their representatives now shared the government with the
municipal authorities, which ever since the middle of the 18th cent. had
included the presidents of the seven greater Arts, or guilds (Lawyers Ind
Notaries, Cloth-dealers, Money-changers, Wool-weavers , Silkeworkcrs.
Physicians and Apothecziries, and Furriers). Fourteen lesser guilds were
afterwards formed. In 1282 the guilds arrogated to themselves the supreme
power, and entrusted the government to a Signon‘a formed of their pre-
sidents or I’rt’ord (afterwards restricted to eight, elected for two months).
The nobility were kept in check by the ‘Ordinamenti della Giustizia‘, a
series of strict regulations due to Giana della Bella (1293), which were ad-
ministered by a Gun alom'ere della Giusta'n'a, supported by a civic militia
0t 1000 (afterwards 000) men. The civic banner bore a red cross upon a
white ground. After 150:) the Gonfaloniere della Giustizia became the
president of the Prinri, with whom were now associated the sixteen Gon-
falonicri of the militia, the Capitano del Popolo, and (after 1312) twelve
magistrates known as Buonuomini. The legislative proposals of the bed!
thus constituted were submitted to three councils: the (Wylie del Popclo.
elected at first exclusively from the more prosperous citizens (the ‘popolo
grasio‘), the Cansigh‘a della Credenza, on which the guild-ofﬁcials rat, and
the Consiglio del Podemt. Finally they were considered by a General Council,
formed or the three separate councils. Ofﬁces were held but for a shot“
term, in order that as many citizens as possible might cnjnythem. but If
any one were ‘admonished‘ for a crime, he became ineligible for ofﬁce.
Advantage of this was frequently taken by the party holding the “PP"
hand to exclude their opponents from power; and the steady development
of constitutional government was interrupted also by the custom of Cl-
trusting from time to time, at the request of the Signoria, a committee of
citizens with the full power (Baliu) of altering the laws.

At the beginning of the 1m. cent., new party-struggles among NM
nobles burst forth, under the new names of the Whites and the Blacks: "10
and?!” (Net!) were eventually victorious, and many of the Bianehi

