to Florence. PISTOJA. 57. Route. 427

statue of the sculptor C?) — We now return and take the Via Pacini,

on the right, to the —

Ospedale del Ceppo (P1. 0, 2), erected in 1277, but afterwards
rebuilt. On the vestibule is a long l'Il‘rieze by Gtoo. delta Robbin
(1514— 25), consisting of reliefs in terracotta, beautifully coloured
and glazed, representing the seven works of mercy (the last relief
on the right, unglszed, was added in 1586 by Fit. Paladini); be-
tween are ﬁgures of Caritas and other virtues.

A little to the E., in the Piazza San Lorenzo, is the church of
the Madonna del Lotto (Pl. 0, 2), containing a miraculous bed. ——
We pass the Ospedale by the Via delle Pappe to the left, which leads
to the Piazza del Carmine, follow the Via Abbi Pazienza to the left,
and the ﬁrst side-street (Vie Sant’ Andrea) to the right, to ——

Sant’ Andrea (Pl. B, 2), a basilica of the 12th century. 0n the
architrave of the entrance are sculptures of 1166, representing the
Adoration of the Magi, with the inscription: ‘Fecit hoc opus Grue-
mons magister bon. et Adeodatus frator eius’ (see p. 424). Over the
door is a small statue of St. Andrew in Giov. Pisano’s style.

In'rlmon (closed 9-6, entrance between these hours through the house
to the left). The narrow have and aisles are supported by twelve columns
and two fpiers. The hexagonal 'Pulpu with its numerous ﬁgures is one of
the chic works of Giovanni Pisano (p. 405), a copy of that executed by
his father at Pisa (pp. 407, 403); some of the details are by pupils. On ﬁve
sides there are reliefs at the to , and at the corners are single ﬁgures:
Aaron, Birth of Christ, David, A oration of the Magi, Jeremiah, Massacre
of the Innocents, Symbols of three of the Evangelists (the eagle, now
wanting. probably served as a wooden lectern), Cruciﬁxion, three Prophets,
Last Judgment, four angels blowing trumpets; below these, at the cor-
ner-e, are six ﬁgures of Sibyls (described by Burckhardt as suggestions or
even as the models for Michael Angelo‘s Slbyls) and in the spandrels twelve
Prophets, the whole being borne by seven columns of red marble, a lion
and lioness, a human ﬁgure, and a winged lion with two eagles.

At the W. end of the Via Sant’ Andrea lies the spacious Piazza
Giuseppe Mazzini (P1. A, B, 2), on the left side of which rises the

monastic church of —
San Francesco al Prato, an Italian-Gothic ediﬁce of 1294, with

remarkable frescoes by pupils of Giotto (14th cent. ).

In the Nave fragmentary frescoes have recently been discovered beside
5 everal of the altars. —— In the Crime: Life of St. Francis of Assisi, in a
series of free reproductions of Giotto‘s frescoes at Assisi (much damaged).
chapel to the left of the high-altar: Apotheosis of St. Augustine, Marriage
3 f the Virgin. St. Paul‘s vision on the way to Damascus, Death of St. Clare.
1 at chapel to the right of the high-altar. various frescoes of the Franciscan
L egends (sadly injured); 2nd chapel, Miracles and martyrdom of San Donnino.

The former Cnarrnn House also contain ﬁescoes of Scriptural subjects
”pd of scenes from the life of St. Francis of Assisi and a few antiquities:
a- C'ast of the city arms (p. L28) by Verroccbs'o; 16-21. Decorated panels
-g-orn the old pulpit of the cathedral (p. 426); M. Relief of the Resurrec-
ion, by Luca delta Robbia (l). The pillar with Lombard ornamentation
‘0 rmerly stood in front of the church of San Pietro (p. 428).

We return through the Via Bozzi and the Via Garibaldi ( with
be Bat. Cancellieri on the right, No. 945), and proceed by the Via
I. ella Madonna to the right to the church of the —- ,

