28 Route 7. TURIN. Piazza Costello

The spacious PIAZZA CASTBLLO (Pl. E, ‘2, 3) forms the centre
of the town. From this point the busiest streets diverge: Via Roma,
Via Pietro Micca, Via Garibaldi, Via dell’ Accademia delle Below,
and the broad and handsome VIA m Po, leading to the bridge over
the Po, and ﬂanked by arcades, containing shops. The University
in the Via di Po, see p. 37. —— In the 8.13. angle of the Piazza
Castello is the Galleria dell‘ Industria Subalpina P1. 19), the other
end of which is in the Piazza Carlo Alberto (p. 8 ).

The Palauo Madame. (Pl. E, 3), a lofty and cumbrous pile in
the centre of the Piazza Castello, had as its nucleus a mediaaval castle
built on the site of the Roman Porta Dccumana (see p. ‘27). This
Castrum Portac Phibellonae, strongly fortiﬁed by William of Mont-
ferrat towards the end of the 13th cent., was extended on the E.
side and protected by two lofty sixteen-sided towers in 1416
by Lodovico d‘Acaja. Farther alterations were made by Charles
Emmanuel 11., but the building owes its present name to his widow,
Maria, who as Dowager Duchess (‘Madama Reale’) embellished it
in 1718 by the addition of a handsome double ﬂight of steps and the
facade on the W. side, from a design by Fit. Juvara. The apart-
ments on the ﬁrst ﬂoor, which were redecorated at the same period,
were used from 1848 to 1860 as the meeting-place of the Sardinian
Senate. The palace now contains several institutions, including the
State Archive Ofﬁce and an Observatory, in the towers concealed by
the W. facade. -— In front of it stands a Monument to the Sardinian
Army (P1. 28), by Vale. Vela, erected by the Milanese in 1859.

At the N.W. comer of this piazza is the church of San Lorenzo
(Pl. E, 2), by Guarim‘ (1687), with a peculiar dome, and destitute
of facade.

On the N. side of the Piazza Castello rises the Palazzo Beale,
or Royal Palace (Pl. E, ‘2), a plain brick ediﬁce begun in 1646 under
Charles Emmanuel II. The palace—yard is separated from the Piazza
by a gate, the pillars of which are adorned with two groups in bronze
of Castor and Pollux, designed by Abbondio Sangioryio in 1842. To
the left in the hall of the palace (admission free), near the staircase,
is an equestrian statue of Duke Victor Amadeus I. (d. 1637); the
statue is of bronze, the horse in marble; below the latter are two
slaves. The handsome staircase is embellished with statues of
Emmanuel Philibert by Santa Vami, andCarlo Alberto by Vino. Vela.

The Interior (adm., see p. 27; we begin with the Saln. degli Svizzeri)
contains a series of handsome apariments with ceiling-decorations by
Bellosio (1841. Claudia Beaumont, the brothers Fea (1.660), and. Daniel Setter
of Vienna (1 ), and with modern paintings by Hays: and Arlen“. The
private apartments of Victor Emmanuel Ii. are not shown.

The remains of a Roman Theatre have recently been discovered in the
basement.

The S.E. wing of the palace contains the ‘Roru. Annount
(Armor-ta Beale; Pl. E, 2), entered from the arcade of the Pre-
t‘cttura (P1. E, 2; last door to the left); admission, see p. 26. The

