76 Route 16. GENOA. c. From thePr‘am Defmm

are the Teatro Carlo Felice (Pl. E, F, 5; see p. 69) and the Acos-
mzmn n1 BELLE An'rr (Pl. E, F, 6), on the ﬁrst ﬂoor of which is the
Bibliotcca Civica (about 45,000 vols); on the second ﬂoor is a col-
lection of casts and a few paintings.

The VIA VENT! Ss-r'rnxnnn (Pl. F-H, 6, 7), a handsome street
laid out since 1887, leads from the Academy to the SE. to the old
Porta d’Archi (p. 83) and thence, passing the new Mercato Orientale
(market), to the Pontc Pita (Pl. H, I, 7; p. 84), the central one of
the three bridges over the Bisagno.

The Salita San Matteo leads to the left, from the Piazza Defemr-i to
the small Gothic church of San lathe (Pl. E, 5; 1278), containing many
memorials of the Doria family, the facade being covered with inscriptions
in their honour. At the foot, to the right, is an ancient sarcophagu-
relief, with an inscription in honour of Lambs. Doria, who defeated the
Venetians at Curzola in 1297. The interior was altered in 1530, with the
assistance of (lion. Baa. Carlene, by the Florentine Montana“, who was
invited to Genoa by Andrea Doria, and executed the whole of the sculp-
tures which adorn the church. The balustrade of the organ—loft is par-
ticularly ﬂue. Above the high-altar is Andrea Doria‘s sword, and his tomb
is in the chapel below. To the left of the church are handsome cloisters
with double columns in the early-Gothic style (13(3-10). with 17 ancient
inscriptions relating to the Dorias, and remains of Montorsoli‘s statue of
Andrea Doria, which was mutilated during the Revolution in 1797. —— The
little piazza in front of the church is surrounded with Palaces of the Doria
Family, some with their lower halves covered with black and yellow
marble. The palazzo (No. 17) at the corner of the Salita allo Arcives-
covndo bears, above its elegant early-Renaissance portal, the inscription,
‘Senat. Com. Andreas dc om, patriae liberatori munu: pubh’cum’.

c. From the Piazza Deferrari to the Main Railway Station by the
Via Garibaldi, Via. Cairoli, and Via Balbi.

From the Piazza Deferrarl two broad streets lead to the N.E.:
to the right the Via Roma (9. 82), to the left the short Via Carlo
Felice (Pl. E, F, 5). The latter leads past the Palazxo Pallavicini
(No. 12; now the Pal. Durazzo) to the szza DELLB Fox-rm
Manosn (Pl. F, 4, 5). No. 17 in this piazza is the Pal. dclla Caea,
originally Spin51a(15th cent., but restored in the 17th), adorned
with ﬁve ancient honorary statues in niches; No. 27 is the Pal.
Lodom‘co Stefano Pallacicini, with apainted facade and sumptuously
ﬁtted up in modern taste.

From the B.E. angle of the Piazza delle Fontaue Marose the Salita Santa
Caterina leads to the Piazza Corvette (p. 82). -- Through the Via Luccoli
to the harbour, see p. 73.

At the Piazza delle Fontane Marose begins a handsome line of
streets laid out since the 16th cent., extending to the Piazza Acqua-
verde (p.81), under the names of Via Garibaldi (formerly Nuaca), Via
Cairdli (formerly Nuovissima), and Via Balbi. In these streets, which
form one of the chief arteries of trafﬁc, are the most important
palaces and several churches. Some of the former shouldjbe visited
for the sake of their noble staircases, one of the sights of Genoa.

The ﬁrst of these main streets, the narrow ‘VIA Geranium
(Pl. E, 4), is ﬂanked with a succession of palaces. On the right,

