OSTENO. 23. Route. 163

the N. for about half-a-rnile. Fine "View to the right of the central
part of the Lake of Como, with Bellegio in the middle. Farther on
the line describes a wide bend to the W. and beyond a short tunnel
ascends in numerous curves on the left side of the Val Sanagm
to (3 M.) Grandola (1260 its), where we reach the highest point of
the line, 610 ft. above the Lake of Como. The train descends rapidly
(4:100), via Benz—Grams, Piano (on the small Lago del Piano), San
Pietro (where the Lago di Lugano comes in sight), and Taoordo,
in the broad Valley of the Guccio.

8M. Porleua (Alb. del Lego,- Pasta or Angelo), on the N.E. arm
of the Lake of Lugano, with the Italian custom-house for travellers
in the other direction. Rail. station, close to the steamboat-pier.

The *Lake of Lugano (870 it), called by the Italians Lago
Cemio after its doubtful Latin name, is 20 sq. M. in area and 945 ft.
deep at its deepest point. Its wooded and oft-times precipitous
banks are less varied and more sombre than those of Lakes Oomo
and Msggiore, but its central part, the *Bay of Lugano, vies in
scenic charm and luxuriance of vegetation with its more celebrated
neighbours. —~ The steamer proceeds viti Cima (not called at by
express steamers), at the foot of the steep hills on the N. bank, and
rrosses the lake diagonally.

0st3n0(H61el du Bateau; Rislorante delta Gretta), on the wooded
Sr bank of the lake, was the birthplace in 1506 of the sculptor An-
drea Bregno, who is represented by two ciboria in the church. It
is frequently visited from Lugano on account of its grotto (return-
fare 2 fr. 35 0.; ticket for the grotto, including the ferry, obtained

on board the steamer, 75 0.).

The Grotto of Olteno, Ital. Org-Mo or Pescara (‘ﬂshcrmen‘s gorgc‘)
Iioueno, is 7min. from the landingplace. The ferrymun guides visitors
hrough the village and down to the right before the stone bridge, to a small
outbrldge over the brook. The month of the gorge, in which there is a
mall waterfall. is near a projecting rock (restaurant). Visitors embark in
small boat and enter the grotto, the bottom of which is occu led by the
rook. The narrow ravine through which we thrend our way rs curiously
allowed out by the water. For above, the roof is formed by overhanging
miles, between which glimpses of blue sky are obtained. The gorge is
Erminated by a waterfall. — The 1'qu (hot-toes of Eesoia may also be
outed it' time ermit (1 hr. there and back). Boot (with two rowers,
nets and back, gir. each) round the promontory to the E. et‘ Osteno in
«hr. to the hamlet of Rescia: thence by a narrow path to the grottoes
I 5 min. (adm. d: torches l/z fr.). In the vicinity are tut‘n quarries,
whining interesting fossils.

A rend leads from Osteno to the S.W. to (8 M.) Lanzo d'htelvi
U5 ftq Plain. Lama d’InteM; Cape Centrale, deg. 2 in), 1‘]. M. above which
the °Grand Hotel ct Belvedere (3015 (L; It. 1[2—5, B. 11/2, dé .31/2. D. 5,
3113. 9-12 fr.; closed 0ct.-April), with a large park and a ne view of
‘9 Like 01' Lugano and the Alps with Mte. Rose, a pleasant spot for a
3] (Engl. Church Service in summer). [Those whose destination is the
otel Belvedere take the footpath to the right, about 1/. )1. before reaching
“‘10, which soon joins the road ascending to the hatch] Lanso may be
1wired also from Maroggia (p. 18) in 3hrs, on foot or b can, or from
'9‘950 (I? 156; diligence) in 3‘], hrs. Near Lanzo (‘25 min.) are the
Iths of arautso. Bridle-path to M12. Gemroso (p. 13), All: hrs-

11‘

