am Croce. FLORENCE. 53. Route. 479

Above the door, Christ between two angels, on the left wall, Madonna
(after Verrocehio), and Madonna with saints above the altar, all terracotta
reliefs of the School of the Robbie. 0n the left wall also is a °Coronation
of the Virgin by Giotto (‘opus magistri Jocti‘): — Note the calm kind-
liness. the tender solicttude in the action of the Saviour, the deep humility
in the attitude and expression of the slender Virgin . . . . Let the student
mark am) how admirably the idea of a heavenly choir is rendered; how
intent the choristers on their canticles, the players on their melody, how
quiet, yet howfull of purpose, how characteristic and expressive are the
faces; how appropriate the grave intentness and tender sentiment of some
angels; how correct the action and movements of others; how grave yet
how ardent are the saints, how admirably balanced the groups (0. it 0.).
-—— (The cloisters, which adjoin this chapel,are entered from the Piazza,
p- - ,

Cnarans n In E. WALL. In the in Charm. on the right are damaged
frescoes of the School of Giotto, representing the Contest of the Archangel
Michael. — The 321) Cnarnn belongs to the Bonaparte family; monument
(1.) of Carlotta Bonaparte (d. 1839) and (r.) that of Julia Clary-Bonaparte
(d. 1&5), by Lor. Barlow.

We now come to the chapels of the Peruzzi and the Bardi, containing
“Giotto? principal paintings, the work of his ripest years, full of intel-
lectual life and unadulterated truthfulness, and wholly free from superﬂugg
or exaggeration. These ﬁne works were discovered by G. Bianchi in 1
and have been extensively restored. In the Csrrnnna Psxnzzr Giotto has
portrayed the life of the two St. Johns: (to the left, beginning at the top)
Zacharias at the altar, ‘Nativity of the Baptist (with a very us figure of
Elizabeth), 'Dancing of the Daughter of Herodiae; (on the right) Vision of
the Evangelist in Patmos, from the Apocalypse, Resuscitation of Drusiana,
and 'Ascension of the Evangelist, whose tomb his disciples tlnd empty. —
In the Cannes BAD! (the next) which Ir. Ruskin calls ‘the most in-
teresting and perfect little Gothic chapel in all Italy’, Giotto depicts scenes
from the life of St. Francis of Assisi: (to the right, above), Conﬁrmation
of the rules of his order by the Po e, ‘St. Francis before the Sultan
:hallenging the Magi to the ordeal of re, St. Francis blessing Assisi on his
loath-bed, and St. Francis appearing in a vision to the Bishop of Assisi;
'9]: the left), St. Francis flees from his father‘s house, He ap cars to St.
[nthony at Aries, and his “Burial (a masterpiece, distinguishe by variety
if character and harmony of com osition). On the ceiling are ﬁgures re-
)resenting Poverty, Chastity, and bedlence, the three chief virtues of the
)rder, and the saint in glory. The vanltings above the windows are em-
)ellished with the ﬁgures of saints , including the attractive form of
it. Clara. The altar-piece is a portrait of St. Francis, with twenty lateral
)ictures (13th cent.) For a farther discussion of the frescoes in this chapel
.he reader should turn to Nos. 1 It III of Rudﬂtl'l ‘Momings in Florence'.

The Orion: is adorned with ‘Frescoes by Aamolo Gaddi (6. £398). from
he legend of the Finding of the Cross; on the ceiling the Evangelist
ind saints.

In the Am Cnarnr. (Capella de‘ Pucci), adjoining the choir on the left:
iiartyrdom of 88. Lawrence and Stephen, frescoes by Bernardo Daddt' (1824);
war the altar Madonna with saints, a coloured relief in terracotta, by
Recount delta Robbia. —- The 51a Cuaru (San Silvestro) contains frescoes
)y Giotﬁno, Conversion of the Emp. Constantine and Miracles of St. Sylvester ;
in the N. wall, above the sarcophagus of Uberto de‘ Bardi, Christ as Judge,
with the deceased kneeling before him (freely restored); to the right,
Entombment.

Lnn Tnarzsar'r. Above the altar of the central chapel, separated from
he and of the transept by a railing, is a Cruciﬁxion, an early work of
)onatello (executed in competition with Brunelleschi, see p. 503), covered.
— At the corner of the transept and left aisle are the monuments of the
:0m oser L. Cherubini (born at Florence 1780, d. 1842) and the engraver
tap ael Iorghen (1768-1833), both by Fantoechiout'. 0n the Opposite pillar
he monument of the celebrated architect Leon Battista Alberti (149672),
arected by the last of his family, a marble group by Bartel-M, unﬁnished.

