of Florence. FlESOLE. 59. Route. 527

the Baptism of Christ, by Lorenzo di Crsdi (2nd chapel on the
right).— Opposite the church the ‘Via della Badia’ diverges to the
left, leading in about 5 min. to the Badia di Fiesole, a monastery
founded in 1028, occupied ﬁrst by Benedictine, but after 1439
by Augustine monks. It was re-erected by ancllcachiCI) about
1456-66, by order of Cosimo the Elder, and forms a remarkably
attractive pile of buildings. The monastery was frequently the
residence of members of the ‘Platouic Academy’ (p. 443). Pico
della Mirandola here worked at his exposition of Genesis. After
the suppression of the monastery (1778) the printing-ofﬁce of the
learned Francesco Inghirami was established here. Since 1876 it
has been occupied by a superior school of the Brothers of Christian
Schools.

The Cnunou, with a transept, but destitute of aislesf, is covered
with circular vaulting. is oi’ noble proportions throughout, and is richly
decanted by pupils of Desidm'o da Hellﬁgnano. The part of the facade
which is decorated with black and white marble belongs to the original
Romanesque structure. —- From the choir we enter the (Immune (to the
right), on the W. side of which is the refectory, containing a quaint fresco
by Giovanni da San Giovanni (1829), representing angels ministering to
Christ in the wilderness; the pulpit is by Pc'ero di Cecco. On the 8. side
is a loggia, adjoining the garden, which aﬂ'orda a charming view ofFlorence
and. the valley of the Ingnone.

Three routes lead from San Domenico to Fiesole. 1. The New
Roan to the right, traversed by the electric tramway, sweeps round
to the E., affording (L) a superb View of Florence and the Arno
Valley, and describing a sharp curve beyond the station of Regresso
di Majano (758 it), ﬁnally skirts the S. side of Fiesole, and ends in
the Piazza del Duomo. Among the numerous villas it passes is the
Villa Lander (to the right, below the road), where Walter Savage
Laudor lived for many years. [He died in 1864 at No. 93, Via della
Chiesa, Florence, on the left bank of the river.]— 2. The steep OLD
ROAD (Via Vecchla Fiesolana) leads past the Villa Montaltuszo and
the Villa Spence, once a favourite residence of Lorenzo the Magni-
ﬁcent, and in 20 min. joins the new road. About 2 min. to the right
of the Villa Spence is the oratory of Sant’ Ansano, with several
works by the Della Robbie, four paintings by Jac. del Sellaio, etc.
—— 3. The VIA GIOVANNI Duran, called at first Via di Fontilucente,
diverges to the left from the old road at the Villa Montaituzzo, skirts
the W. side of the Franciscan convent (p. 5‘28), with a pretty view
of the Mugnone valley, and ﬁnally reaches the Piazza del Duomo
from the N., beside the ancient theatre.

Fissole. -— °Aznsnuo-Rrsronanrn Auuons, déj. or D. 21/24, pens.
8-10 i‘r., incl. wine; — Inna, pens. 5-6 fri, both in the Piazza del Duomo,
with small gardens and view. — Risiorantz it Frrruccio. a little to the E.
of the Plan, with a view of the upper Mugnons Valley; Malamute
Bellags‘o, 1/: M. below Fiesole, at the Regresso di Majano (p. 627).

Fiesole (970 ft), Lat. Faesulac, is an ancient Etruscan town,
the Cyclopeau walls of which are still partly preserved. The town,
the seat of a bishop, but now of no importance, contains 16,816

