386 Route 53. RAVENNA. Art History.

lost its prosperity for ever. Thenceforward until 1797, and again in
1815—60, it belonged to the States of the March. In Aug., 1849, Garibaldi
found refuge at Bavenna from the pursuing Austrians, while his wife
Anita succumbed to the fatigues of the ﬂight.

In the History of Early Christian Art of the 5-8th century, Revenue is
the most important place in Italy next to Rome. While most of the other
Italian cities fell into decay after the barbarian invasion, Bevenns saw
new and imposing structures rising in her midst at that period. The
connection of Roman and Byzantine art may best be studied at Ravenna.
Here, as at Constantinople, also formerly the centre of a brilliant archi-
tectural period, the traveller will observe how the capitals of the columns
were gradually remodelled, and a new style of ornamentation introduced.
Besides the basilica: there are also dome-structures, which form a link
between Byzantium and some of the churches of N. Italy and the cathedral
at Aix—la-Chapelle. The ancient Bonnmos of Ravens. belong to three
diﬂ‘ereut periods, the ﬁrst being that of Honorius and his sister Galla
Placidia, 402—450 (Cathedral, Sant’ Agata, San Giovanni Evangelina, San
Giovanni Battieta, Mausoleum of Gallo Placidt'a, Archiepisoopal Chapel,
Baptistery of the Orthodox, and San Macaw); the second a Gothic period
from 493 to about 589 (St. Marlimu or Sant‘ Apolltaare Nuoco, Spirito
Santa, Baptistery of the Ariana or Santa Maria in Cosmedl’n, and the Hilda
and Mausoleum of Theodora), and the third I Byzantine period from so
onwards (San Vitale and Sant‘ Apclh'nare in Classe, both begun in the pre-
ceding period). The basilicas of Ravenna diﬁ‘er from the Roman in having
their porticoes converted into a closed anterior structure, in possessing
columns expressly designed for their object (by Byzantine architects in
Istria) instead of being brought from other buildings, and in showing a
consistent use of the round arch with corresponding articulation on the
external walls (Palace of ’I'heodoric, Sant’ Apollinare in Classe). This last
feature sp ears also in Diocletian‘s buildings at Salons. Round campanili.
detached rom the churches, begin to appear in the 8th century. Transepts
are wanting, as also was probably the case originally in most of the Roman
basilicns. Notwithstanding the alterations of subsequent ages, and the
raising of the pavements by several feet, which was rendered necessary by
the gradually increasing elevation of the surrounding soil, these noble
monuments of triumphant Christianity are profoundly impressive, and their
eﬂ‘ect is greatly enhanced by the stillness and solitude of the environs. ——
Monte PAINTING was also extensively practised at Ravenna. The earlier
symbolism (Baptistery of the Orthodox, Mausoleum of Gallo Placidia) was
gradually abandoned for the historical Christian style (Sant‘ Apollinare
Nuovo, San Vitale), but at the same time the ﬁdelity to nature became
less and the designs became still‘ and conventional. At this period, too,
the costly but still' costumes, and the ceremonial air of the Byzantine court.
began to affect the designs. thus preparing the way for the later Byzantine
style. — The traveller will also have an opportunity here of examining
Ssncornscr, Ivonr Csnvnto (Throne of Archbp. Maximian, . 387), Srncco
Rnunrs (Baptistery of the Orthodox, p. 388), and other wor s of the early
Christian period, and thus obtain a very comprehensive review of the art
products of the centuries preceding the Carloving'ian era.

Lord Byron, who preferred Ravenna to all the other towns of Italy.
and was inﬂuenced in some measure by his intimacy with the Countess
Guiccioli, a member of the Gamba family of Ravenua, spent two years
here (June, 1819, to October, 1821‘ see p. 389).

From the station (Pl. G, 3, 4), in front of which rises a statue to
the Italian patriot L. C. Farini, Dictator of the Emilia in 1860, we
pass the Piazza Anita Garibaldi, with the church of San GioVsnni
Evangelism (p. 392) and a monument (by Zocchi; 1888) to the
champions of Italian liberty, and crossing the Corso Giuseppe Gari-
baldi (to the right, Spirito Santo and the Baptistery of the Arlsns,
p. 392), proceed straight on through the Via Farini to the Puzu

