304 Route 42. VENICE. d. From St. Mark to

Len AISLE. 0n the right and left of the door of the Sacrirty, admirable
wood-carving by Andrea Brmtolon (1698). To the right, Nativity, oi
the School of Paola Verona“. Over the door, busts of Titian and the two
Palmas, by Jae. Albarelli, 17th century. — In the Ssonrsrr: to the left
of the altar, Christ bearing the Cross, by Alone Vioartm‘ (about 1W; sig-
nature forged; restored). — Farther on in the aisle, monument of Doge
Pasquale Mali iero (d. 1:182) by Pietro Lombardo; tombstone of the senator
Bouzio (d. i , under it, statues of St. Thomas Aquinas by Antonio Lom-
bard» and St. Peter Martyr by Paolo da Milano (7); in the recesses below,
(r.) the recumbent efﬁgy of Doge Michael Steno (d. 14.18); monument with
equestrian statue of General Pompeo Giustiniani (d. 1616) by F. Terilh‘:
°Monument of Doge Tommaso Mocenigo (d. 1423), by Pisro «it Niccolo and
Gian. dt Martino of Florence (the decoration shows the transition from
the Gothic to the Renaissance style, the sculptures reveal the inﬂuence
of Donatello), monument of Doge Niccolo Marcello (d. 1‘74) by Pietro
Lombardo. Over the following altar, early copy of Titinn‘s Death of St. Peter
Martyr, a celebrated picture destroyed when the Capp. del Rosario was
burned (p. 303). Monument, with equestrian statue, of Orazio Baglioni
(d. 16l7). Over the last alter, a statue of St. Jerome by Alan. Vittoria:
adjoining it, the monument of the Marquis de Chasteler (d. 1825), who
distinguished himself in the Tyrolese war in 1809.

On the N. side of the Campo rises the rich facade of the ‘Souoh
di San Marco (Pl. H, 4), erected in 1485-95 by More Coducci and
the Lombardi, with singular reliefs in perspective of two lions. In
the pediment over the portal is a good relief representing St. Mark
surrounded by his fraternity. The building, with the adjacent
Dominican monastery, has been used as a hospital (Ospedalc Civilc)
since 1815. The chief ward has a magniﬁcent ceiling. Connected
with it is the old chapel of Santa Maria della Pace, which once con-
tained Merino Falieri’s tomb (p. 266).

In the centre of the Campo are a tine Well Head and the
equestrian "Statue of Bartolommeo Goueoni (d. 1475; buried at
Bergamo, p. 196), general of the Republic, modelled by Leonardo
da Vinci‘s teacher Andr. Vcrrocchio (d. 1488; his last work) and
cast in bronze by Aless. Leopardi, who also designed the lofty marble
pedestal (1490-95).

‘1 do not believe there is a more glorious work of sculpture existing in
the world than the equestrian statue of Bartolomeo Colleoni‘. — Rubin.

"Santa Maria dei Miraooii (Pl. G. H, 4), in the vicinity, recently
restored, is a small, early-Renaissance church without aisles.
erected in 1480-89 under the superintendence of Pietro Lombardo,
and richly encrusted with marble both without and within. The
quadrangular domed choir, fourteen steps higher than the nave, is
peculiar (below it is the sacristy). On the right and left are am-
bones, or lecterns where the epistles and gospels are read, as in
ancient Christian churches. The barrel vaulting, with its richly
gilded coffers, is painted by Girol. da Trevino. In the passage beside
the sacristy is an unﬁnished relief of the Last Supper, by {lisllr'o
Lombardo.

We follow the lane passing on the S. side of Ssnti Giovanni e
Paolo and the baroque Ospedaletto Church (Pl. H 4; built by Bald.
Longhena in 1674), to the E., cross the Rio San Giustina, go a few

