138 Route 19. MILAN. d. Southern

The church of San Giorgio al Palazzo (Pl. D, 6), farther on, to
the right, contains in the 1st chapel on the right a St. Jerome by
Gaud. Ferrari; in the 3rd chapel on the right, ‘Paintings by Mini:
above the altar, Entombment and Crowning with thorns; at the
sides, Scourging and Ecce Home; in the dome, Cruciﬁxion (fresco).
— Farther to the N.W., in the Piazza Mentana (Pl. D, 6), is a Most-
ument by Luigi Bclli, erected in 1880 in memory of the Italians who
fell at Mentana.

To the S. the Via Torino is continued by the Conso n1 Pox-rs Ti-
cmssn (Pl. D, 7, 8), in which, on the left, is a large ancient 'Conou-
NADB (Pl. D, 7) of sixteen Corinthian columns, the most important
relic of the Roman Mediolanum. Adjacent is the entrance to —

"Ban Lorenzo (Pl. D, 7), the most ancient church in Milan.
Whether the handsome interior once formed the principal hall of
the Thermos, or of a palace of Maximian (4th cent.), to which the
above-mentioned colonnade belonged, or a very ancient Christian
place of worship, like San Vitale at Revenue, is uncertain. It was
subsequently altered at least three times, the last time by Martino
Bam’ about 1673. It is octagonal in form, and covered with a
dome. 0n the four principal sides are large semicircular apses in
two stories, each borne by four columns alternately octagonal and
round.

At the back of the hi hraltar is the ancient C'appella ds' Bant‘ Ippnﬂito,
containin the tomb of onnt Giov. Marla Visconti, by Marco Aprau
(1559). — o the right of the church is the very ancient Capyella at Sam'
Aquiltno (closed), containing mosaics of the 6th and 7th cent. (Christ and
the Apostles and Annunciation to the Shepherds, the latter freely restored),
and an ancient Christian sarcophagus. The entrance to the chapel from

the church is adorned with an antique marble frame, on which appears
a Btcchante riding a goat (to the left).

Farther to- the 8., beyond the Naviglio, rises the ancient church
of Bant’ Eustorgio (P1. D, 8), founded in the 4th cent., re-erected
in the Gothic style in 1278, renewed in the bad taste of the 17th

cent. by Ricchini, and recently again restored. The modern facade
is by Giov. Brocca (1862).

1st Chapel to the right, Mural monument of Giac. Stefano Brivio
(d. 14.84), by Tommaso da Cazmm’ga and Bened. Briosco; 4th Chapel to the
right, Gothic monument of Stefano Visconti (ca. 1337), by one of the
Campiomsi; Gth Chapel, Monuments of Gaspare Visconti and his wife
Agnes (d. 1117). Further on, on the same side, the Cappella dc’ Magi, con-
taining a relief of 1347 and a. late-Romanesque sarcophagus, in which the
‘bones of the Magi‘ were preserved until they were presented to the city
of Cologne by Frederick Barbarossa after the conquest of Milan in 1162.
By the high-altar are reliefs of the Passion, dating from the 14th century.
In a modern sarcophagus (1900) below are deposited the bones of Easter
gins. Magnus, and Honoratus, three archbishops of Milan in the 4th cen-
tury. — At the back of the choir is the 'Cappella Portinan‘, with a ﬁne
cupola and a charming frieze of angels, built in 1462-66 by Aﬁchslozzo of
Florence (p. M3). It contains the magniﬁcent Gothic tomb of St. Peter
Max-t, r by Gian. dc Balduccio of Pisa (1339). This saint, the Dominican
Fra ietro of Veron , was murdered in 1252 in the forest of Barlassina,
in consequence of his persecution of heretics. The walls are adorned
with admirable frescoes of the four Fathers of the Church, scenes from

