Environs ofFlorencc; SAN MlNlATO. 59. Route. 521

the large circular Piauale Galileo (386 it; comp. Pl. 0, 8), is
continued as the Viola Galileo (side-path to the Torre al Gallo, see
. 523) along the slopes to San Miniato and the Piaasale Michelangelo
{see below). Lastly, under the name of Viola Michelangelo (Pl. G,
H, 8), it descends in a long curve to the river, where it terminates
at the Fonts in Ferro, near the Barriers San Niccolo (P1. 11, 8).
This road, which is 60 ft. wide and nearly 33/‘ M. in length, is
bordered with charming pleasure-grounds, containing bays, elms,
sycamores, and hedges of roses, over which delightful views are
obtained. —— Part of the Viale dei Golli is traversed by the electric
tramway No. 8 (p. 434). The Piazzale Michelangelo and San Miniato
are, ' however, more speedily reached from the Ports 8. Niccolo
(p. 5‘20), which is passed by the electric tramway No. 7 (p. 434).
Near San Miniato the road passes the large 'Piuznle Michel-
angelo (340 ft.; Pl. F, G, 8), forming a kind of projecting terrace
5 min. from the Ports 8. Niccolo (p. 520). In the Piazzale cafe—
restaurant) rises a bronze copy of Michael Angelo’s David (p. 93),
the pedestal of which is surrounded by the four periods of the day
(p. 500). Charming 'Vrsw: to the N.E., on the hill, lies Fiesole;
then the city with S. Croce, the Cathedral, 8. Lorenzo, the Pal.Vec-
ohio, 8. Maria Novella, and the Lungamo; to the left are the villa-
covered heights, the Fortezza del Belvedere, and the Monte Oliveto.
(b. ) SAN MINIATO, with its light-coloured marble facade, on
the hill to the S.E. of Florence, is a conspicuous object from many
diﬂ'erent points. It may be reached in a few minutes by the road
and footpath diverging to the right from the Viale Galileo (see
above), just before the Piazzale Michelangelo. The footpath passes
the aecularized Franciscan monastery of Ban Salvatore or San
Francesco a1 Monte (Pl. F, G, 8), with a church erected by Cronaca
in 1476—1504, the simple and chaste proportions of which were
deservedly praised by Michael Angelo, who called it ‘la belle villa-
nella'. 0n the high-altar is a Cruciﬁxion with SS. Mary, John, and
Francis, and above the left side-portal, a Pieth in the style of Giov.
delta Robbia, in painted terracotta. —- We now ascend towards the
gateway of the old fortiﬁcations, constructed by Michael Angelo in
1529 as engineer to the republic, and defended by him during an"
eleven months’ siege of the city by the Imperial troops. Duke
Cosimo I. converted the hill into a regular fort in 1552. Visitors
ring at the gate and bestow a gratuity of 16-20 c. on leaving. The
church'and the whole hill, the so-called Monte alle Croci, have been
used since 1839 as a Burial Ground (tine views, especially from
the S. wall of the cemetery). The monuments show the taste of
the modern Florentine sculptors, who lay great stress upon an
accurate rendering of clothes, lace, ornaments, and the like, and
whose skill finds numerous admirers. _
The church of *san Iiniato al Monte is one of the ﬁnest ex—
amples of the Tuscan-Romanesque style which ﬂourished in Pis:

