368 Route 61. BOLOGNA. Centre of the Town.-

containa the choir-books of S. Petronio, made in “73-15“. In the center
1154. Silver cruciﬁx (15—16th cent); 51. Wooden model of the church, by
Arduino Anion“ (1614).

To the SE. lies the ‘Hnseo Civico (PI. 27; E, 5), in the
Potasso Galvani, Vin. deil’ Archiginnasio 2. Entrance under the
arcades of the Portico dcua Mom. Adm, see p. 363; catalogues
only for the Egyptian antiquities (1896; 10 fr.) and for the Vases
(1900; 20 in).

We pass through the Vnsriaunn, containing a few Roman monuments
and two tombs from the Certosa (to the right, the ticket-ofﬁce), and enter
the tastefully~restored Conouuannn Count of the old Oapedala delta Hort:
(“50), in which the ancient and medieval inscriptions are preserved. —
At the NE. angle is the entrance to (R. IV.) the Marco dd Ram-airman.
with reminiscences of the Napoleonic wars and the Italian War of
Independence (uniforms of Garibaldinns). In the centre, weapons belong-
ing to lurat. A small room (No. V), in the corner to the left, contains
Roman remains found in Bologna. — In a second court tine terracotta
ornaments of the 14—16th centuries.

The Urns. Fcoon contains ﬁrst the luseo d'Antichith (director. he].
Britta). — Room I (r.): Relics oi the primitive dwellers in caves and lake-
villages in the province of Bologna, consisting of implements oi ﬂint and
bone, bones showing marks of sawing, earthenware, etc. Adjacent is a
room chieﬂy containing antiquities found in other govinces of Italy and
in foreign countries. ——- We pass through Room into Rooms III-V,
containing Egyptian antiquities; in Room III, steies, in the centre a
limestone statue of a kneeling youth. Room IV: Mummies and mum
cofﬁns, statuettes of gods in bronze, wood, and enamel. Room V: Lime—
stone reliefs with scenes from domestic life: basalt statustte of Kin;
Nefer-hote (about 20003. 0.), papyrus-leaves, and (in the centre cabinet,
upper shel?) two gilded scarabeei with the cartouche of King Ramses III.
(14th cent. B.C.). — Room VI: Grmco-Roman antiquities. In the middle:
'A, Head of Athena (without helmet), of the time of Phidias, an admirably
preserved copy of a bronse original; B, Antique gold ornaments, silver
vessels above, drinking cups (the second from the left especially note-
worthy), Attic lecytbi with designs on a. white ground; D, Glass vessels,
Attic vases; E, Greek portrait-head, bearded (damaged). in the wall-
cases: N, terracottas; F, G, Greek and Italic vases. By the window-wall
(right): H-M, Sculptures, the best (both under I!) being a Greek tomb relief
of a woman standing, and the fragment of a relief, bearing a rana‘s head
and a hand. — Room VII. Less important Roman sculptures. —— Room VIII
Monumenti Italico-Etruschi): Etruscan cinernry urns and terracotta

gun-es, mirrors, bronze ststnettes, buckles (ﬁbula), etc. By the win-

dow-well, black ‘Vasi di bucchero‘. In the cornencase by the rear-wall:
Etruscan bronze helmet; statuette of a warrior with a similar helmet;
copy of a similar helmet at Turin. The sculptures (Celts plundering a
ten le, carrying oi! captives, etc.) are fragments from the ediment of
an truscan temple at Arcevia in the Marches. '—— Room : Roman
antiquities: H, brorne weights, scales, keys, spdons, bells,.rim; I, lamps,
glasses- in the centre, B, lamps, Aretine vessels, bronzes, ivory carvings
of the bhristian period. -

Room X (Monumenti deila Necropoli Felslnea) contains the most
important objects of the collection, alter-ding an excellent survey of the
successive degrees of culture through which the inhabitants of F elsinn (see
p. 364) or Bononia passed. Cases A-D, O-T, and V, in the ﬁrst part of the
room, contain the earliest objects (Univ-tan Fried), includin early-Italic
vases (the oldest with scratched or engraved patterns, those 0 I later date
with stamped ornaments) bronses, etc. In B and 6, are various small
ivory articles, which indicate intercourse with nations beyond the m
There are still more of these in D, which also contains Pisa-loin
enamelled scarabmi. The cases in the rear part of the room illustrate the

