308 Route 42. VENICE. f. Western Quarters:

Not far from the market, at the entrance to the Rugs di 8.
Giovanni (leading to the Frari; comp. p. 310), is situated San
Giovanni Elemosinario (Pl. F, 4), built by Scarpagnino in 1527.
Entrance by the gateway adjoining the campanile (best light about
noon .

°21igh-altar-piecc by Titian, San Giovanni Elemosinario (about 1530;
mutilated by the absence of the semicircular upper section): — ‘St. John
the almsgiver, bishop and patriarch of Alexandria, is not a saint of note.
His t pe is not one that painters know and respect as traditionally re-
served in the annals of the pictorial craft. A bishop giving aims in ght
be the subject of a tame composition. None but I man of genius could
give interest and force to such a theme; but Titian was I genius and it
is surprising with what power he conceives and carries out his idea. . . .
The forms are natural, but of good scantling, moving boldly, vet appro~
priately foreshortened with daring yet without strain, the nude correct, '
the mo elling masterly. . . . His colouring is gorgeous, his command of
line surprising, his touch unsurpasseble‘ (C. d: (L). —— Chapel to the right,
Altar-piece, SS. Sebastian, Rochus, and Catherine, a masterpiece by Ford:-
none. — To the left, in the nave, Marco Veccllt‘, Dogs Grimani giving aims.

Passing the entrance of the Rugs 8. Giovanni, and continuing
our way from the Rialto Bridge direct to the N. W., we cross I
canal and arrive at the Campo and Church of San Gallium (Pl. F, 4).
This church, built in 1611, contains some ﬁne pictures: 1st altar
on the right, John the Baptist and four saints, ascribed to Palm:
Vccchio (damaged); 3rd altar on the same side, Visitation, by Le-
andra Bassano; choir, Jae. Tintorctlo, Cruciﬁxion.

We next cross the Rio 8. Cassiano to the W., take the second
side-street to the left (Calle della Begins), and, again turning to
the right, reach the church of —

Santa Maria. Mater Domini (Pl. F, 4), founded in 1510. Facade
with tine marble sculptures by Joe. Sansovino (1540); 2nd altar
to the right: Vine. Oatma, Martyrdom of St. Christina (1520);
right transept, Finding of the Cross, a ﬁne work by J. Tintaretto;
opposite, Last Supper, by Bonifazio 11.; beneath, a Byzantine relief
ot‘the Madonna. -—— Not far hence, on the Grand Canal, is the Pal.
Pesaro (p. 296).

Continuing our course towards the N.W., and turning into a
side-street on the right, after crossing four canals, we reach the
entrance of the —

*Museo civico, which combines the old Correr Collection and
part of the Morosini Collection (p. 315) with the municipal collec—
tions and is arranged in the former Fondaco dc’ Turchi (Pl. E, 3;
p. 296). Admission, see p. 265. Good catalogue (1900), 1 fr.
(Steamboat station, see p. 261.)

By the entrance and in the court is s. series of sculptures and archi-
tectural fragments of various epochs, including several Venetian well-heads
of the i2-il5th cent., chieﬂy in the form of capitals. At the back of the
court is a colossal statue of Agrlppa, supposed to have been brought
from the Pantheon. —— The rooms to the left contain Egyptian, Allyrim.
and italic antiquities, including a boat made from the trunk of an oak;
prehistoric antiquities from Hungary; views of Venice. — To the right

is a room with an ethnographicai collection from Africa (Raccolta HM:
comp. p. 354).

