to Florence. LUCCA. 67. Route. 417

one of the most pleasing sculptors of the early Renelssance, resided,
and produced numerous works, at ance. His style, inﬂuenced by Antonio
Rosseilino and other Florentine masters, though full of life, is of a grace
in! and gentle character, contrasting especially with Donatello.

Near the Railway Station (Pl. D, 4) are a number of new streets,
including the unﬁnished VIA CIRCONVALLAZYONE (Pl. E, F, 4, 3).
We enter the inner town through the Porto San Pietro (Pl. 0, 4)
and proceed, trending to the left, to the —

PIAZZA GBANDE or Piazza Napoleone (Pl. 0, 3), the chief square,
laid ont under Elisa Bscioccht. In the centre is a monument to
the Duchess Marie Louise, by Lor. Bartolini (1843). —— In the Piazza
Venti Settembre, to the N.E., is a monument to the Champions of
Italian Liberty, by Urbano Luochesi, by whom is also the marble
tatue of Garibaldi, in the Piazza del Glglio (Pl. C, 3).

A few yards to the E. of the latter is the PIAZZA SAN Msn’rmo,
n which rises the —

*Gathedral of San Martino (Pl. D, 3), founded in the 6th cent.
y St. Frigidianue (p. 421) but rebuilt in 1060-70 in the Roman-
sque style by Bishop Anselmo Badagio (later Pope Alexander II.).
he choir-spec and the aisles date from the original building, though
so letter received Gothic windows and buttresses (chieﬂy on the N.
do) in the course of an extensive restoration in the 14th cent. (1308
.d 1372), when the nave and transepts were rebuilt in the Gothic
lie. The sumptuous facade, added after 1204 by Guido do Come
:1 his son Guidetto, is embellished with a line group of St. Martin
d the beggar (13th cent. '1’). The labyrinth on the pier to the
ht symbolises the erring paths of human life. The ornamentation
ide the vestibule was begun in 1233; the reliefs represent the
tory of St. Martin and the emblems of the Months. Over the door
an Adoration of the Magi (much mutilated) and e Descent from
Cross, two early works of Niccolo Pisano (p. 405). The church is
ered by three Renaissance doors adorned with wood-carvings.
The 'Inumon (most of the altar-pieces covered on week-days), which
recently undergone a thorough restoration, is in the form of a Latin
5 with nave and aisles 91 yds. in length, transept 18, and nave ZSyds.
idth. The nave (91 it. high) has pillars and round arches, above which,

Northern Gothic churches, is n trlforlum (with large windows and
tracery) over the aisles and carried across the transept, which it
intersects longitudinally. The stained glass in the side-windows is
'i‘us. Ber-tint (1856).

MIGHT Asses. At the 2nd altar, Adoration of the Magi, by F. Zucchero
); 3rd, Last Su per, by Tintorctlo; ‘Pulpit by Matteo Civitali, with rich
nentntlon “-19%. Above the adjoining entrance to the sacristy is an
i-screon of 148 . — In the Secure" a ‘Mndonna with SS. Clement,
, Saul, and Sebastian; above| u Pietlt, below a fine predella, by Dom.
an ajo.

he RIGHT Tanner's contains the beautiful marble Monument of Pietro
ceto, secretary of Pope Nlcholos V. , by Hausa Ciaitali (1x172); by the
master, farther on, is the simple tomb of Count Domenico Bertini
; also In the following Carrier.“ DEL SACRAMENTO (enclosed by a rail-
vo ‘Angels in an attitude of adoration (M77) and (adjoining the chair)
.rAn or 81-. homes, with St. Sebastian and John the Baptist and
ful reliefs (“84).

1:03:23. Italy I. i2lh Edit. 27-

