‘xlviii ‘ lTALIAN ART.

properly Bmosco (Cappella del Santa) ﬂourished. At Venice the Re-
naissance culminated in the ﬁrst half of the 16th cent. in the work:
of the Florentine Jacoro Smsovmo (properly Ta'r'rr, 1486-1570).
and at Genoa in those of Gammzzo ALnssr (1500-1672) of Perugis
(2.9. Santa Maria di Carignano).
In the middle and latter hall of the 16th cent, Venice, Genoa,
”on. and Vienna were zealous patrons of art. To this period
rscruu n belongs Assam. Pumamo of Vicenza (1518-80; p. 243),
V““’“- the last of the great Renaissance architects, whose Venetiar'
churches (San Giorgio Maogiore and Redentore) and Vicentine palace:
are equally celebrated. The fundamental type of domestic archi-
tecture at Venice recurs with little variation. The nature of the
ground aﬂ'orded little scope for the caprice of the architect,
while the conservative spirit of the inhabitants inclined them to
adhere to the style established by custom. Nice distinctions of style
are therefore the more observable, and that which emanated from
a pure sense of form the more appreciable. Those who have been
convinced by careful comparison of the great superiority of the
Bibliotzca of Sansovino (in the Piazzetta; p. 275) over the new
Pracuraaie of Scamoui (p. 271), although the two ediﬁces exactly
correspond in many respects. have made great progress towards an
accurate insight into the architecture of the Renaissance.
Much, however, would be lost by the traveller who devoted his
time: attention exclusively to the master-works which have been
Woaxs or extolled from time immemorial, or solely to the great mon-
Aﬂ- umental structures. As even the insigniﬁcant vases (ma-
jolicas, manufactured at Pesaro, Urbino, Gubbio, Faenza, and
Castel-Durante) testify to the taste of the Italians, their partiality
for classical models, and their enthusiasm for purity of form, so
also in inferior works, some of which fall within the province of a
mere handicraft, the peculiar beauties of the Renaissance style are
often detected , and charming specimens of architecture are some-
times discovered in remote corners of Italian towns. Nor must the
vast domain of decorative sculpture be disregarded, as such works,
whether in metal, stone, or stucco, inlaid or carved wood (intania),
often verge on the sphere of architecture in their designs, drawing,
and style of enrichment.
0n the whole it may be asserted that the architecture of the Re-
naissance , which in obedience to the requirements of modern life
scum“; manifests its greatest excellence in secular structures, cannot
or run 113- fail to gratify the taste of the most superﬁcial observer.
“"”’“°‘- With the sculpture of the same period, however, the case is
diﬂerent. The Italian architecture of the 15th and 16th centuries
still possesses a practical value and is frequently imitated “the
present day; and painting undoubtedly attained its highest con-
summation at the same period; but the sculpture of the Rennie;
sance does not appear to us worthy of revival, and indeed cannot

