to Florence. morons. 57. Route. 425

From the railway-station (Pl. B, 4) we proceed straight through
the Porto Barriera to the (5 min.) little sza Onto (P1. B, 3), the
main focus of trafﬁc. — A few yards. to the right, in the Via Cavour,
rises the old Tuscan-Romanesque church of —

San Giovanni hereivitaa (Evangelina; Pl. 2), erected outside
the city walls about 1160, with a somewhat overladen facade adorned
in Pisan fashion with rows of columns. Over the entrance is a relief
representing the Last Supper by Gmamons, as an inscription on
the arehitrave records (1162). The church is closed after 9 a.m. ;
key at Via dell” Arancio 306, close by.

Ins-salon. 0n the right is the 'Pulpﬂ, adorned with reliefs on three
sides, by Na Guglielmo, a. upil of Niccolo Pisano, whose antique style he
followed (about 1270); in grout, the symbols of the Evangelists. Over the
next altar, the ‘Visitation of Mary, a lifeeine group in terracotta, by Luca
delta Robbin, described by Burckhardt as ‘the most beautiful group of the
Renaissance period‘. On the left, a. handsome basin for holy water by
Won. Pisano (much injured), supported by the cardinal virtues, with alle-
zorical ﬁgures above.

Opposite is the Palauo Panciatichi- Cellesi. —-—Following the Via
ﬂavour, and diverging from it by the Via Francesco Magni, to the
left, we reach the Puzzs mu. Doouo (Pl. 0, 2). 0n the right

rises the -— ,

Cathedral (San Jacopo) of the 12th cent., remodelled in the
13th, with an apse added in 1599 by Jacopo Lafn’. In the vesti-
bule, over the principal entrance, is a medallion (Madonna sur—
rounded by angels) by Andrea delta Robbin (1505). The barrel-
vaulting is adorned with coﬂering and rich fruit-garlands from the

studio of the Della Robbie.

The Iranian, sadly marred by alterations, consists of nave and aisles
ions by sixteen columns and two iers. — By the wall of the entrance
3 the Font, adorned with five relie s (History of the Baptist) by Andrea
Famed,- to the left the tomb of Bishop Atto (d. 1337), restored in 1786,
he reliefs dating from the original monument. — At the beginning. of
he Bron-r Arena is the monument of Gino Binibaldi (d. 1336; see p. 424),
Iy the Bienese master Callisto dr' Nets (1337), the earliest type of an
endemic tomb. The bee-relief represents Gino lecturing to nine pupils,
mong them Petrarch, who afterwards composed a sonnet on his death,
xhorting the women to mourn for Gino as the poet of love. —— Ogosite,
: the Lawn Ann, the ‘Honumeut of Cardinal Forteguerra (p. 4 , de-
gned by Andrea Vemcclu'o (whose clay model is in South Kensington
'useum). Above is Christ in the Mandorla supported by angels, beneath
aith, ‘Hope, and Charity (of which the first and last have been spoiled
v Loremeuo). The unattractive sarcophagus, with angels and the bust
‘ the deceased, and the frame round the whole, are later additions. —
he Car-rELLs DEL Saunarnnuo (left of the choir) contains a ‘Madonna
ith St. John the Baptist and 8t. Zenobius by Lorenzo ds' Credi, the finest
rd oldest of his altar- ieces, the figures strongly reminiscent of Da Vinci
186). To the left. 11 gh-relief bust of Bishop Donato de‘ Medici, ascribed
A. Rossellino (1475). —- In front of the Bron ALTA): a fine bronze cande-
brnm (15th cent.). Beautifully inlaid choir-stalls. — In the Carrnnna
N Jacoro (right of the choir) is a rich ‘Sileer Altar executed in the 18th
d 14th cent. (covered; sacrisian 30-50 c.): at the top, the oldest part, is
Irist in the Mandorla, in a niche beneath is a sitting statue of St. James,
rrounded by apostles and prophets, by Simone di Ser lemma and other
esters of the middle of the 14th cent., below is a large silver tableau

