to Mantua. CBEMONA. 31. Route. 191

ﬁlm, Last Supper, Christ washing the Disciples‘ feet, Christ on the Mt.
of Olives Christ taken by the soldiers, Christ before Caiaphas; above the
llh and 6th arches, Romaine, 'Christ led out to be cruciﬁed, Scourging
of Christ, Crown of Thorns, Ecce Homo; above the last three arches,
towards the facade, Pordemme‘s three celebrated ‘Passion Scenes: Christ
before Pilate, Christ and 5t. Veronica, Christ nailed to the Cross. 0n the
front wall, a colossal Cruciﬁxion and Entombment by Pordeuone. —— The
two pulpits are embellished with reliefs from an old altar, by Amadeo
(1‘82). — The choir contains tine Renaissance stalls by Give. Maria Plaﬁna
and Pietro dull?! Tania (“82-90). The high-altar-piece (Assumption) is by
Rem. Got“. The chapel of the Host (1599), to the right of the choir, is
elaborately frescoed by the Campi. — In the right transept stands the
sarcophagus of SS. Peter and Marcellinns, by Boned. Briosco (1507). The
frescoes, by Giulio .Camps', represent the history of Esther. -— First Chapel
to the right: altar-piece by Pordsmme, Madonna between two saints.

In the vicinity are the octagonal Battistcro (Pl. F, 4) of 1167,
and the Campo Santa (Pl. F, 4), in the pavement of which are
curious old mosaics (Hercules and Nessus; Piety wounded by
Cruelty; Faith tearing out the tongue of Discord, etc.).

The adjacent Piazza Roma (P1. E, F, 3) is laid out with gardens
(music on Sun. and Thurs. evenings).

A few hundred yards to the N.W. of the Piazza Roma, in the Via
Ugolani Dati (Pl. E, 2), stands the old Palauo Dali, erected about 1580 in
the baroque style and now a hospital. The court is very tine. To the E., at
No. 7 Corso di Porta Venezia, is the Monte dt‘ Pe'etd (Pl. Gr. 2, 3). dating
from the 15th century. The elegant brick facade is embellished with a
charming frieze of Nereids, coats-of-arms. and portrait-heads, and in the
court is a frieze of Bacchantes. — Farther on, near the Porta Venezia
(p.192), is the church of Hunt Abbondio (Pl. G, 2), with an early work
(15??) of Giulio Campi (Madonna with SS. Nazarins and Celsus) and a
Coronation of the Virgin, by Altobello Melone. In the sacriety are some
cabinets by G. M. Platina.

From the Municipio the Via Ala Ponzone leads to the W. to the
Palazzo Real: (formerly Ala di Pomona), which contains the in-
teresting Musno CIVICO (daily 9—3, except Sum).

0n the Staircase are sculptures, portions of frescoes, etc. — First Floor.
From an Antes-com, with drawings and small paintings, we pass through
a handsome Renaissance doorway to Room 1., which contains enamels,
bronzes, miniatures book-bindings, ivory carvings, and terracottas. —
Boon II. Medals and plaquettes; also Trinity. by Vino. Civerchio, and other
paintings. —— Roost III. Paintings: Camila Boccaca'no, Madonna and two
saints, Gian Fr. Rambo, Madonna; 0. Oﬁvelli, San Nicole of Tolentino (re-
touched); Boccaccio Boccacm'no. Madonna enlhroned with 83. Anthony of
Padua and Stephen (1518); Gal. Camps, Madonna and two saints. -— Roox IV.
LOT. dt' Credi (1’), Madonna. -— In the following rooms are works by early
Netherlandish masters (B. van Orley, Madonna), paintings of the 17-18th‘ cent.,
sculptures, etc.

In front of the museum is a Marble Statue of Amilcare Ponchielli
(1834-86), a native of the district and composer of ‘Gtoconda‘, by
Pietro Bordini (1892). — Farther up the Corso Vitt. Emanuele, in
the second cross-street to the left, is the church of SAN Pmmo a1. P0
(P1. E, 5), built in 1549-70 by Ripari. Over the third altar to the left,
Madonna and four saints, by Gian Franc. Bembo (1524). The rich
ceiling-decorations are by Ant. Campi and other masters.

In Sara" Aoos'rmo (Pl. D, 3), a church of the 14th cent, wrth
aisles and barrel-vaulting: ﬁrst chapel on the right, Pteth, by

