82 Route 16. GENOA. c. Lighthouse.

The Via San Benedetto and the Via Milano, farther on, lead
from the Palazzo Doria past the Sailon’ Rest (p. 69) and the large
new quays (comp. p. 72) to the lighthouse. About halfway we reach
the Pius“ Dinegro (omnibus, p. 68), No. 41 in which is the Panazzo
Rosazza (adm. 1 fr.). The charming gardens, with their rare plants
and pretty fountains, deserve avisit; in the upperpart is aBelvederc,
commanding a ‘View similar to that from the lighthouse.

On the rocky headland separating Genoa from San Pier d’Arena
rises the large Lighthouse (Lantema; 384 it), with its dazzling
reﬂectors showing a light visible for over 20 miles. Visitors may
go by the 8. Pier d’Arena tramway (No. 11, p. 68) to the tunnel.
The tower (353 marble steps) may be ascended and the apparatus
inspected (fee 1 fr.); but the platform at its foot commands as good
a view. Best light in the evening.

The ‘Vrsw embraces the town and extensive harbour of Genoa, with
the amphitheatre of mountains behind; to the E. the Riviera di Levante
is visible as far as the picturesque promontory of Portoﬂno; to the W.
are seen the coast-villages on the Riviera di Ponente from San Pier d‘Arena

to Savona, the headland of Noli, and the Capo delle Male, while in the
distance are the usually snow~capped peaks of the Ligurian Alps.

d. From the Piazza Deferrari to the Via di circonvallazione a
Mars via the Piazza Corvette, Acquaaola, and the Gene Andrea
Podesth.

The VIA Rona (PLF, 5; electric tramways Nos. 3 and 4, p. 68),
already mentioned at p. 76, is, with the adjoining Galleria Massim'
(right), the most important focus of trafﬁc after the Piazza Deferrari.
It ascends to the N.E., passing (left) the Salita Santa Caterina
(p. 76) and cutting on a corner of the interesting old Patazzo Spinola

now the Prefettura), to the Puzu Convn'r'ro (Pl. F, G, 5), where a
large bronze equestrian Statue of Victor Emmanuel II. was erected
in 1886, from Barzaghi’s designs. From this point we may proceed
to the left, passing a marble Statue of Mazzini, by Costa (1882),
to the —

*Villetta. Dinegro (Pl. F, 4; 240 it), a beautiful park, the
property of the city, with pretty cascades, the Mason Civico, with
collections of natural history (adm., see p. 70), and an incipient
Zoological Garden. Winding promenades ascend from the entrance,
near which are marble busts of Aurelio Safﬁ, Ant. Burlamio, and
Ant. Monte, to a high bastion which affords a noble survey of city,
harbour, and environs. -

The direct continuation of the Via Roma is the Via Assa—
rotti, leading to the high—lying Piazza Martin (p. 84). — From the
Piazza Corvette we ascend to the right to the park of Acquuaola
(Pl. G, 5, 6; 138 it), laid out in 1837 on part of the old ramparts
(concerts, see p. 69). — From the S. and of the park we next fol-
low the electric line along the Cause ANDERBA Pomrs'rd to the
church of -—

