VICENZA. 39. Route. 243

ll, tn, both in the narrow Contrsda. deiie Due Rode; Csvunsrro (Pl.d; 0,8),
Piszza delie Bisvn, quite unpretending. — Trattoria del Belusdere, with
rooms at 2 tr., see p. .

Cafes. Garibaldi, Piazza dc‘ Signori; Nationals, in the Corso.

01b from station to town 75 c. (at night, tin); ﬁrst hr. 11/:, each ad-
ditional hr. 1% in; trunk 25 c.

Post & Islegrnph Ofﬁce (P. C, 2), in the Corso.

Ohio! Sight. (1 day): Corso Principe Umberto and Piazza. dc‘ Signori,
with the Basilica Palladium: (p. 244); Pnlezzi in the Contrudn Porti and
Contrnde Giacomo Zanelln; Teatro Uiimpico (p 245); Museo Civico (0. 244).
in the afternoon; Madonna del Monte (p. 246) and Rotunda (p. 2A6). —
The Festa delta Rua, a populsr festival, takes place on Sept. 1st.

Viccnza (106 ft.), the ancient Vicctia, capital of s province and
see of a bishop, with 43,703 inhsb., lies at the N. base of the Monti
Berict' (p. 242), on both sides of the Bucchiglione, at its con—
ﬂuence with the Retrone. Although closely built, the town possesses
many interesting palaces, to which, with the picturesque environs,

a short visit may proﬁtably be devoted.

Vicenza, like most of the larger towns of N. Italy, boasted in the 15th
cent. of n Scnoor. or PAxxrrno, which, though it was strongly inﬂuenced
by Mantegna (born here in 1431. but active in Padus. and Msntus alone),
.- and never produced masters of the highest rank, yielded results 0! consider-
. Ibis importance. The earliest master of note was Giovannt erama, who,

however, w» soon surpassed by Bartolomeo Montayna (ca. 1 4523). The

. gnllery and the churches (Cathedral, Santa Corona) of Vicenzn contain

‘ works by the latter. His compositions are strongly realistic, and he shows
a predilection for muscular ﬁgures, and for colouring of a rich brownish
tint. His drapery is ungraceful, but, like thnt of Durer, boldly detlucd.
His son, Benedetto Mantegna, was unimportant, but his contemporary Gio-
vanni Buonwnsiglio, surnamed Maracalca (d. 1530), resembling the Ven~
.etians both in conception and colouring, ranks as the second master of
note. His chief works are the Pietis in the Museum (p. M5), and the
ladenns. at San Rocco (p. 2A6). 1n the 16th cent. Viccnza lost its im-
portance as a. school of painting, but attained a high reputation in the
province of Ancux’rncruns, hnving given birth to Andrea Palladio (1518—80),
the last great architect of the Renniealnce, the chief sphere of whose
operations was his native town. By his study of the antique in Rome he
was enabled to effect a. revival of what may be termed the ancient language
of forms, and he made it his endeavour to exhibit in his buildings the
organic connection between the diﬁ‘erent members. The chief character-
istic of his school consists in a studious adherence to impressive simplicity
of form, and a very sparing indulgence in the lavish enrichments in which
the early-Renaissance was too apt to revel. His ﬁnest churches are at
Venice (comp. p. 267), but his most numerous pnlnces are at Viccnza, to
which they impart a uniform and handsome appesrnnce.

We enter the town by the W. gate, Porta del Costello (Pl. B, 3).
Immediately to the right, on the S. side of the narrow Piazza. del
Castelio, is the Palazzo Giulio Porto, formerly called Cara del Diavolo,
a large unﬁnished palace by Palladio, with two stories united by a
row of Corinthian columns with a rich cornice. To the left rises a
monument to Garibaldi by Ferrari, erected in 1887.

Near the statue, at the beginning of the 002.50 ancxrn UM-
anro, which intersects the entire town, lies the Palasco Bonin,
by Vine. Scamozzi. On the right, opposite the church of San Filippo
Nari (Pl. B, 3; 1719), stands the Palauo Loschi (18th cent.) —-
The Strada Loacbi, the next cross-street on the right, leads to the

16 ‘

