256 Route 41. CITTADELLA.

relates the history of the Virgin from the rejection of Joachim‘s sacriﬁce
to Mary‘s bridal rocession. The Birth of the Virgin and the Presentation
of the Virgin in t e Temple show scrupulous ﬁdelity to nature. -— The Sac-
onn Row begins with the Annunciation (choir-arch), and depicts the youth
of Christ and his ministry up to the driving of the money-changers out
of the Temple. The ﬁnest scenes are the Adoration of the Magi, the Flight
:4 Egypt, and the Entry into Jet-«calm. —— The grandest ﬂight of Giotto‘s
imagination is seen in some of the paintings in the Turn!) Row, mainly
devoted to the Passion. The representation of Christ‘s sorrows as begin-
ning with the Corruption of Judas (to the left of the choibwall) is a he
dramatic touch. in the Maiden Giotto has not only surpassed his
predecessors in the nobility of his conception of the Suii'erer, but has
added a most effective and pathetic feature in the small winged angels,
who show every degree of sympathy and sorrow. The gem of the series,
however, is the Field, or Christ wept over by the Virgin and his friends,
its tone of composition being in admirable keeping with its tragic content.
— The Lowns‘r Row consists of allegorical ﬁgures of the Virtues and Vices
in griseille, and leads up to the Last Judgment. The Christ enthroned with
angels, above the choir-arch, shows that Giotto was as much at home in
the domain of placid gracefulness as in that of emotion and passion.
- The anscons in nu: Cnom (Death Assumption, and Coronation oi
the Virgin) are by a later hand, and oi little importance. By the rear
wall is the monument of the founder of the church (d. 1336). On the altar,
in front of this. is a ﬁgure of the Madonna by Giovanni Firm, to whom
the statue of Scrovegno, in the sacristy, to the left, may also be ascribed.

From the Madonna dell’ Arena we may proceed either to the
N.W. direct to the Barriers Mazzini (p. 249), or to the S.W. through
the Via Cittadells. to the Piazza Garibaldi (p. 249).

Fnon Palms 'ro Vnucn Vii Foams, 26 M., steam-tramway and steamer
in 2‘]: hrs. (fares 2 fr. 10, 1 fr. 35 c.). — Most of the tramway-stations art
unimportant. At (A M.) Ponte di' Brenta (p. 247) we cross the Brenta and then
skirt the Canal: ds‘ Brenta. — 7 M. Strd, with the large =Palazzo Pisa-i.
built about 1740 for the Pisani famil of Venice by Count Frivimels‘ca and
F. 11!. he“, and bought in 1807 by 'apoleon I. for Eugene Beauharnaii,
Viceroy of Italy. It has now been declared a national monument. The
magniﬁcent ball-room contains a huge ceiling-painting by Tiepola: the Glori-
ﬁcation of the Pisani (1762). There is also a beautiful garden. — 1111.
Dale (Alb. Garibaldi), also a railway-station (see p. 2A7). — ll. M. Kim
Tactic, with the villas of many Venetian families. The Pal. Coalan'ni
contains frescoes by ’I‘iepolo. — 18% M. Kalcontmta, connected with Mestre
(p. 247) by steam-tramway. — 22 M. Fmina is the terminus of the tramway
steamer to Venice, see p. 262.

41. From Vicenza. to Treviso. From Padua to
Bassano.

Fnol VICINZA 'ro Tnnvrso, 371/. E, railway in 2% hrs. (fares 5 fr. 50c”
4 fr., 2 fr. 400.).

Vicenza, see p. 242. —- 10 M. Carmipnano, beyond which the
Brenta is crossed.

14 M. Oittadslla (160 ft..; Alb. Roma,- Cappeuo), with 9585 in-
hab., junction of the Padua and Bassano railway (p. 257). The
town, with its well-preserved medileval ‘Walls, was founded in
1220 by the Paduans for protection against the Trevisans, who had
built Castelfranco in 1218. The Cathedral contains a Last Supper
by Jacopo Bassano.

