Cathedral. FERRARA. 50. Route. 357

is the elegant Gothic church of San Giuliono (Pl. 2; D, 4). — In
the Piazza Savonsrola, on the S. of the castle, rises a monument by
Galetti to Girolamo Saoonarola (Pl. 3), who was born at Ferrara
on 21 st Sept., 1452 (‘in tempi corrotti e servili dei vizi e dei tiranni
ﬂagellatore’; p. 441). —— Farther on, to the right in the Piazza del
Commercio (Pl. 4), is the Palazzo dcl Municipio Pl. D, 4, 5), the
oldest residence of the Este family, rebuilt in the i th century. One
of its rooms is said to have been decorated by Doaao Dossi.

In the centre of the neighbouring PIAZZA DELLA Camnnsnn (Pl.
D, 5) is a statue of Victor Emmanuel IL, by Giul. Monteverde (1889).

The ’Oathodral (San Giorgio; Pl. D, 5) has an imposing facade
with three series of round arches, one above the other, an ad-
mirable example of the Lombard style. The lower part of the
front and the lateral facades date from 1135; the upper part is of
the 13th cent., the sculptures mainly of the 13th and 14th. The
projecting portal, embellished with two lions, was added at a later
period; the reliefs are of an earlier date, some of them being pro-
bably by Nicolaus, who also worked in Verona (p. 2‘26).

The fine Isa-anion, with its aisles and double transept, does not corre-
spond with the facade, as it was modernized in the baroque style by
Honors!" in 1712. In the 2nd Tasman on the right: Martyrdom of St.
Lawrence by Gucrcino (ruined); on the altar at the back, Cruciﬁx, with
the Virgin, St. John, St. George, and 8t. Maurelius, live ﬁgures in bronze
by Nina» Baroncelli and Dom. at" Paris (1453-66); terracotta figures oi‘
Christ and the Apostles in both transepts by Alfonso Lombardi (repainted).
—— In the CHOIR, to the right, Annunciation; to the left, St. George, by
Cosimo Tara. — 6th altar to the left, Coronation of the Virgin, saints below.
by Fr. Francia (late work). —— 5rd altar on the left, Madonna enthroned
with saints, by Garofalo (1524). On the right and left of the principal
door, 83. Peter and Paul, in fresco, by the same master (retouched). —
In the rooms adjoining the sacristy, Gm-ofalo, Annunciation; Dom. Panel“,
Madonna, with two donors; Giacomo do Siam), Statue of the Madonna (1MB).

At the S. comer of the cathedral rises a lofty and handsome
Campanile in four massive stories, erected in the Renaissance style
in 1451-93 (top story at the end of the 16th cent) — Opposite
to it is the Pal. delta Ragione, a Gothic brick building, erected in
1315—26, restored in 1840, and still containing the courts of justice.
— Adjoining is the former church of Sam Romano, which is now
almost entirely concealed from view by other buildings, only the
graceful brick ornamentation of the frieze and window—arches being
visible.

The Beminario Aroivesoovile (P1. 1; D, 4), formerly the Palazzo
Trotti, Via Cairoli 32, contains frescoes by Garofalo in two rooms on
the groundﬂoor (best light about midday; fee 1/2 fr.; closed on Sun.).

The paintings (1520) in the 1st Room (vestibule) are much injured.
Those in the 2nd Room (1519), though too sombre for ceiling-paintings,
are artistically of great beauty and well-preserved. Tasteful ornamen-
tation. David and Goliath, the Judgment of Solomon. Prometheus, etc.,
are represented. In the centre is an illusive painting of persons looking
down over a parapet, among them a portrait of the artist.

SAN PABLO (Pl. D, 5), built in the late—Renaissance style about
1573 by Alberta Schiatti, contains pictures by Carlo Bonom' and

