Fran'. VENICE. 42. Route. 311

vaulting is supported by twelve circular piers. It contains numer-
ons monuments and pictures, and like Santi Giovanni e Paolo
(p. 303) is the lust resting-place of many eminent men. Over the
portal (left) is a statue of the Madonna, by s Tuscan sculptor (early
15th cent). Beside the portal of the left trensept is s ﬁne relief
of the Madonna and angels (sbout 1400).

Interior. mous- Aisu. Adjoining the 1st altar, the large monument
of Titian (d. 1576), by Luigi nnd Pt'elro Zondomeneghi‘ in 1852. In the centre,
Titian sitting by a genius and uncovering the statue of Sais; on the well
are reliefs of three celebrated ietnres of Titian, the Assumption (p. 286),
Dceth of St. Peter Martyr (p. 30f, end Martyrdom of St. Lawrence (p. 301);
below are two 1! ures with tablets: ‘Eques ct. comes Titiauus sit. Caro-
lus V. 1553‘, and ‘ itisno monumentum erectnm sit. Ferdinandus I. 1839‘. —
To the left of the 2nd sitar: the monument of Almerico d‘Este of Modena,
a general of the Republic (d. 1660); 3rd altar, 'St. Jerome, s statue by
Alessandro Vittoria, said to possess the {sutures and ﬁgure of Titisn
when in his Sth year.

Bron'r Tuner”. 'liionument of Jscopo Msrcello (d. 1484 at the capture
of Gsllipoli), from the workshop of the Lombardi,- behind is e frieze with
the triumphs! procession of the hero; altar-piece in four sections by Bart.
Vimrini ( 487). — On the right, near the door of the secristy, the Gothic
monument of Beato Psciﬂco (d. 1437), with s. relief of the Ba tism of
Christ, by the Florentine Master of the Pellegrint Chapel (p. ). Over
the door of the socristy, the monument of Adm. Benedetto Pessro (d. 1503),
by Lar. Browse sud Ant. Hinello, with a ﬁgure of Mars (right) by Baccto
do Ionlelupo. Near the door, on the left, wooden equestrisn 'Btstue of
the Roman: prince Pmlo Sevello (d. 1406), ‘ulr‘eady breathing the natural-
istic spirit of the downing Renaissance‘ (Burcthardt). - In the SACRISTY,
opposite the door, I shrine with reliefs in marble of the 17th century.
“Altar-piece in three sections Madonna enthroned, with saints and angelic
musicians, by am. Bellini (ll/88), in a beautiful Renaissance frame: ‘the
gentlest end most elegmt emsnstion of Bellini‘s art . . . . the Virgin hand-
some end ensive, the children pretty in their crowns oflsaves, the saints
in edrnira le proportion‘ (0. at 0.).

Cnorn Genus. 1nd Chapel on the right: on the right, the monument of
Duccio degli Alberti, on the left, that of on unknown warrior, both tine works
of the 14th century. — Choir: (r.) Gothic mausoleum of the Doge Franc.
Fosceri (d. 1157), by Poole and Ant. Bream (1); (l.) Early Renaissance
‘Tomb of the Doge Niccolo Tron (d. M73), by Ant. Riuo. The vaulting-
eells still retain trues of their original painting. Titisn‘s Assumption of
the Virgin (p. 286) wss at one time the alter-piece here. - Chapels on
the left: 1st, altar-piece, Madonna and saints, by Bern. Lics'nio do Pords-
none (about1530); 2nd, monument of Melchior Trevisnno (d. 1500), the
situ- in coloured and gilded carved wood, by the Lombardi, in the centre,
John the Baptist in wood, by Donatello; 8rd, altar-piece, St. Ambrose and
saints, nbove, Coronation of the Virgin, by Alvin Vivarini, completed
by Marco Batum.

Lurr TRsnstr'r. Alter-piece in 3 sections, St. Mark with four other
saints, by Bart. Visorini (1474).

Lzrr AIsLI. Baptistsry: alter in marble shove, Hedonna and four
saints, in the style of the Kansans (about 1“); on the font, a ststue or
John the Baptist, by Samovino; above live more saints in the style of
the Manama. Further on: Tomb of Bishop Joe. Pcsaro (d. 1547).

"Altar-piece,'lisdouns of the Pesaro family, by Til-"an (1526).

More elaborate and studied, and in every sense grandiose, the We.-
donnn di Cass Pessro‘ reveals more surely than the ‘Annuncistion‘ (Scuola
di 5. Rocco, p. 813) the breadth of Titisn‘s telent, and takes us, not
without preparstion, to the height of his pictorinl fume. He has brought
to perfection the last and finest of all forms of presentation pictures, the
noblest combination of the homely and devotional with palatial archi-
techﬂ'e — the most splendid nnd solemn union of the laws of composition

