a

104 Route 18. spnzu. From Genoa

climate is very mild, so that Spezia is frequented as a winter-re-
sidence by the English and for sea-bathing in summer by the Italians.
The chief centres of trafﬁc are the Corso Cavour, the Via Mazzini,
on the coast, the neighbouring Piazza Vittorio Emanuele, converted
into an attractive Giardino Pubblico, and the Via Chiodo, leading to
the S.W. to the arsenal (see below). —— The Gulf of Spezia, one of the
largest, safest, and most convenient harbours in Europe, anciently
praised by Ennius as the Lanai Portus, has been the chief naval
harbour of Italy since 1861. The entrance is protected not only by
several hill-forts, but also by the Diga Subacquea, an embankment
nearly 2 M. long, constructed in 1874. Beside the latter, on the
shore, are the two forts of Santa Maria ( W.) and Santa Teresa (It).
— The Royal Naval Arsenal on the S. side of the town, constructed
by General Chiodo (d. 1870), whose statue rises at the entrance, is a
large establishment, 150 acres in extent (no admission). Beside it
are the Naval Barracks and the Hospital. The marine artillery
magazines in the bay of San Vito cover an area of 100 acres. The
Canticre di San Bartolomeo (electric tramway, p. 103), on the N.E.
side of the gulf, serve as an electric and torpedo station. The com-
mercial harbour, to the N.E. of the town, is connected by railway
with the main line and is used, like that of Avenza (p. 105), (u
the export of Carrara marble.

Excunsrons. An admirable survey of the town and harbour is aﬂ‘orded

by the Giro delta Face (earn, see p. 103; 2 hrs.‘ walk), a circular route ',

leading via the Porta Geneva and Chiama (electric tramway, p. 103) to f
the hill of La Face (790 (L; p. 1g2),vand returning vii Sarbia, on the ridge g

to the N. of Spezia. — To the

. of La Foce, reached by a. good road, .

is the Monte Parodi (2200 ft.), commanding tine views. A stalactite cavern
was discovered on the S. slope of this mountain in 1890. The road goes .
on to the fortiﬁed Monte Brampane (2190 ft.), and returns thence to the I

town through the valley of the Biaua. — A charming ‘Excursion may

be made to Porto Venere, either by steamer (see .103) or viii the high- :

road (7 IL; carr. and omnibus, see p. 103), which escribes a wide curve

round the bay of San Vito, with the arsenal, and then skirts the S. shore ,

of the gulf, viii Marola, Cadimare (electric railwa , p. 103), Feuano, Pam'-
gaglr'a, and Le Grazia (steamboat-station, see p. 103). Porto Vsnere (Trai-
ton‘a del Gem‘o), on the site of the ancient Perms Venen’s, with the
remains of fortiﬁcations built by the Genoese in 1113, is celebrated,
like the fortiﬁed island of Palmaria (613 ft.) immediately opposite, for a
yellow—veined black marble, known as ‘Portoro‘. Charming prospect from
the ruined church of San Pietro (now under restoration), rising high above
the sea, and supposed to occupy the site of the temple of Venus. Between
two rocks beneath the church is the Gratla Amaia (accessible by steps;
fee), or ‘Byron‘s Grotto’ (inscription), where the poet is said to have written
much of his ‘Corsair’. — The fortified Konte di Gastellana (1870 ft),
ascended from Le Grazie (see above) by carriage-road in 2hrs., commands
a line view of the sea, the Apennines, and the Rivieras. But visitors
should on no account omit to acquaint the police before making this
excursion (comp. p. 103). — Several pleasant excursions may also be made
on the N.E. side of the gulf by steamer (p. 103) or by carriage, the best
being to San Terenzo (sea-baths, 30 c.), where Shelley passed his last days,
and Lerict (‘Alb. Croce di Malta, R. 11/; fr), both on the Bay 0/ Mai.
A little to the E. of S. ’l‘erenzo, on the road to Lerici, is the 0am Kag-
carmn‘, formerly the Guru Mayni, where Lord Byron lived in 1822. Latin!

with a small harbour, a Garibaldi monument by Al. Biggi, and an old

