Bma. . MILAN. 19. Route. 127

Room XXI (‘Aﬂ’reschi di Bramante’). Fragments of "Frescoes by
Bramante, from the Casa Prinetti. ’

Roan XXII, with smaller works of the Schools of Central Italy
(Tuscany, Umbrla, etc.). Benozzo Gozzoli, Miracles of St. Dominic
(part of an altar-piece). Gentile do Fabriano, Coronation of the Virgin,
with four saints. Glee. Pacchiarotto, Madonna; Aug. Bromino, Portrait
of Andrea Doria (p. 71) as Neptune; Pietro do Cartona, Madonna
with four saints.

Room XXIII (‘Ran‘aello’). “Raphael's far-famed Sposalizio, or
the Nuptials of the Virgin, painted in 1504 for the church of San
Francesco in Citta di Castello, where it remained till 1798.

The composition closely resembles that of the Sposalizio of I’eruqr'na
(now at Caén), in whose studio Raphael then worked. ‘In both paintings
the top is rounded, and in both a small polygonal temple, a charming
forecast of Bramante‘s buildings, rises in the background. The central

art of the foreground is occupied by the long-bearded high-priest, who
joins the hands of the bridal pair; Mary is attended by a group of graceful
virgins, while near Joseph stand the reJected suitors, the most passionate
01' whom breaks his shrivelled wand. A closer examination of Raphael‘s
work, however, divulges so many points of divergence as to make the
observer almost oblivious to its Peruginesque character. 'i‘he transposition
of the bride and bridegroom with their attendant groups to opposite
sides of the canvas is a purely external diﬂ‘erenoe and one of little signi-
ﬁcance, but the conce tion and drawing of the individual ﬁgures and the
more delicate disposition of the grouping reveal the original and peculiar
genius of the younger artist'. — ‘Raﬁ‘ael and Michelangelo‘, by Prof. An-
on Springer. .

Room XXIV: Umbrian and S. Tuscan masters of the 15-16th
centuries. Piero delta Francesca (or Fm Ccu‘lr'lauale?)Y Madonna
enthroned with saints. angels, and the worshipping donor, Duke
Federigo da Montefeltre. Luca Signorelli, Madonna, Scourging of
Christ (early works); Madonna enthroned withfour saints (freely
retouched in 1892). Gioo. Santl (father of Raphael), Annunciation.
Timoteo Wit, Madonna with SS. Crescentius and Vitalis, Annunciation
with SS. John the Baptist and Sebastian.

Roots XXV: Tuscan and Roman Schools (16-17th cent). Sasso-
ferrato, Madonna (perhaps a copy 7).

Room XXVI: Schools of Southern Italy (16-17th cent.) Luca
Giordano, Madonna and saints. Solo. Rosa, Landscape, with St. Paul
the Hermit.

Rooms XXVII and XXVllI: Foreign Schools. Nelherlandish
School (attrib. by Hofstede de Groot to Hem de Bled), Adoration
of the Magi. Rubens, Last Supper (from Malines; ca. 1615-20).
A. van Dyck, ‘Portrait of a young English lady (‘?); Madonna and
St. Anthony of Padua. Jan Brueghel, Village-street (1607). Rem-
brandt, *Portrait of his sister, an early work (1632). Ribem, St. Jerome.
Raphael Menga, Dom. Annibali, the singer (1750).

Room XXIX: Copies and Photographs (for sale).

Adjacent, at the junction of the Martessna (p."i48) with the
Naviglio, is the church of San Marco (Pl. E, 3), originally a Gothic
building of the 13-14th cent., but entirely modernized in 1690.

