358 Route 50. FERRARA. Pal. Schi/‘anoja.

Scarscllino, and on the pillar to the right, a bust by Alcoa. Vittoria
of Ant. Montecatino, the friend and minister of Alphonso II.

The University (Pl. D, E, 5, 6), with faculties of medicine,
mathematics, and jurisprudence, now attended by barely 100 stud-
ents, occupies a building erected by G. B. Alcotti in in 1587. In
the court are Latin inscriptions, Roman and early-Christian sarco-
phagi, and a few Romanesque sculptures.

The Umvnusr'rr Lrananr possesses about 100,000 vols. and 2000 M88.
Among the latter are several cantos of the ‘Orlandc Furloao’ in 4mm
handwriting; a copy of Tauo‘a Gemsalemme Liberata‘, with numerous
corrections; letters and poems written by Tasso in prison; and Ovarian”:
MS. of the ‘Pastor Fldo‘. Among the printed books are ﬁfty-two old edi-
tions of Ariouo. His monument, erected by G. B. Aleotti in 1810-12, was
brought hither from San Benedetto (p. 860) in 1801.

The Casa degli Ariosti LP]. D, E, 6), in the adjacent Via Giuoco
del Pallone, belonged to the parents of the poet

San Francesco (Pl. E, 5), a brick church in the early-Renais-
sance style, erected in 14944630 by Biagio Rossetti, is entirely
covered with domes, and each aisle is ﬂanked with chapels and
elaborately painted. The frieze of ‘putti’ and foliage in by Giro-
lamo do Carpi (ca. 1550). In the let Chapel on the left are frescoes
by Garofalo, the Kiss of Judas, with the donors. A famous echo here
(under the second dome in the nave) answers sixteen times if
awakened with due energy. — A simple slab outside, to the right
of the entrance, commemorates Giambauiata Pigna, the secretary
of Alphonso II. and alleged rival of Tasso.

The Cow Romei (Pl. E, 5), Via Savonarola 18 bis, decorated in
the interior with terracotta ornamentation and frescoes of the school
of Dosso Dossi, affords a good idea of an aristocratic residence of
the Renaissance period.

In the choir of the church of Corpus Domini (Pl. E, 6; adm. by
special permission only) are the tombs of Alphonso I. and anrezia
Borgia, Isabella d’Este (p. 236), Duke Hercules IL, and his daugh-
ters Lucrezia and Eleonora.

SANTA MARIA IN Vane (Pl. F, 6), onelof the oldest churches at
Ferrara, but altered in the early—Renaissance style after 1495 by
Biagio Roaactti and Bartolomeo Triatam' according to plans by Er—
colc Grandi, consists of a nave and aisles, with a ﬂat ceiling resting
on ten columns, and surmounted by a dome. It contains fine fres-
coes by Carlo Bononi.

At No. 23, Strada della Scandiana, is the Palano Bchifanoja
(P1. F, 6), once a chateau of the Este family, and new the pro-
perty of the town. It was begun by Alberto d‘Este in 1391, and
completed under Borso by Pietro Benvmuti in 1466-69. Over the
handsome portal is the unicorn from Borso's armorial bearings. In
1898 the palazzo was ﬁtted up as the M0320 Summon, for the
municipal collection of antiquities.

The PMHOIPAL Sanoon (1st ﬂoor) contains some .celebrated .Fmour
completed about 1470. Only seven of the original twelve scenes are

