'500 Route 53. FLORENCE. f. From Piazza del Duomo

(Creation, Fall, Death of Abel, Sacriﬁce of Noah, Nativi , Death and
Resurrection, Last Judgment) are by Pietro Bmvemui (1 . In six
niches below are the granite sarcophagi of the rinces, some of them with
gilded bronze statues, from Cosimo I. (d. 157 ) to Cosimo 111. (d. 1728;
comp. p. 399). On the coping round the chapel are placed the armorial
bearings of 16 Tuscan towns in exquisite stone-mosaic. A new ﬂoor was
begun in 1888. —- A sum of 22 million lire (about 880,(Xl)l.) was expended
Wy the Medici family on the construction and decoration of this chapel.
The ”New Sacristy (Sagrcstia Nuova; admission, see p. 437;
'50 0.), built by Michael Angelo for Cardinal Giulio de’ Medici (who
became Pope Clement VII. in 1523) in 1520-24, as s mausoleum
for the house of the Medici, is a simple quadrangular ediﬁce sur-
mounted by a dome and articulated by pilasters, canOpiee, and re—
cesses. In form it corresponds with the old sacristy by Brunelleschi.
The sculptures with which it was to have been ﬁlled (monuments
to Lorenzo the Magniﬁcent and his brother Giuliano, Popes Leo X.
and Clement VII., and to the younger Giulisno and Lorenzo ds‘
Medici) have been conﬁned to the monuments of the two last-named.
Giuliano dc' Medici (d. 1516), created Due de Nemours by the King
of France, and Lorenzo dc’ Medici (d. 1519), who became Duke
of Urbino under Leo X. The great master worked at his task full
of bitter feelings at the abolition of' the republic by Alessandro 019'
Medici, and in 1534 left it unﬁnished, as he feared the tyrants
hate after the death of the Pope. In spite of these unfavourable cir-
cumstances Michael Angelo has here produced a congruous whole of
the greatest beauty. Architecture and sculpture are as harmonious
as if the master had modelled sarcophagi and statues, cornices and
niches, doors and windows out of one and the same clay.
V On the right is the °Monuusnr or Grunrsno ns‘ Hunter, who is I!-
presented as General of the Church, holding the commander‘s betas
in his hand. Full of proud conﬁdence and energy he gazes before him.
ready to start up at the approach of danger. Below is the sarcophagus
containing the remains of the deceased and adorned by the ‘Stntues of
Day and Night, the latter especially admired. A contemporary poet, Gio-
vanni Battista Strozzi, wrote upon it the lines:

La Nous, chs tu osdi in u“ doch' at“ ‘Tis Night, in deepest slumber; all
can see
Danni", fu do an Angelo tcolpi‘ta She sleeps _(for Angelo divine did gin
In quzuo sasso, c perché dorms ha This stone a soul), and, since she
vita; sleeps, must live.
Destala, as no”! credi, e parlsraui. I You doubt it? Wake her, she will
speak to thee.
Michael Angelo, in allusion to the suppression of political liberty
(see above), answered:
Grate m‘ H com 0 p612 Fraser 61' . Ah! glad am I to sleep in stone,

sassa; while woe
Mcnlre che‘l dunno e la scrgogna dura And dire disgrace rage unreprovéd
near ——

Non coder, non son“:- of e gran un- A happy chance to neither see our
h

car.
So wake me not! When passing.
whisper low.

Comp. Swinburne‘s ﬁne sonnet ‘In San Lorenzo‘ b inuin ‘ls thine
hour some to wake, 0 slumbering Night? , eg 5

lura:
Perb non mi dealer; deb! parta bauo!

 

 

