330 Route 43. GRADO.

The Narthea: of the cathedral and the octagonal Baptistery,
resembling the buildings of Ravenna, as well as the ‘Chicsa dci
Pagani', which connects them, are remains of early-Christian build-
ings. — The lower art of the conspicuous Campanile, 240 ft. high,
is Romanesque (10 1), the upper part Venetian. The top com-
mands a superb 'View of the lagoons, the plain of the Isonzo, and
the distant Venetian and Julian Alps.

A pleasant excursion (one-horse carr. 2K.) may be made to the Village
of Belvedere, lyin 3 It. to the 6., on the margin of the lagoons, and
possessing a ﬁne p ne-wood (pinata). extensive dunes, and ﬁsh-hatcheriea.

A steamer (80 and 40 h.) plies from Aquileia several times daily,
through the ramifying canals of the lagoons, passing numerous
dshermen’s huts (casoni), to (1 V2 hr.) —

Grade (Hot. Fonzari, closed in winter, Pasta, both very fair;
Grignaschi or 0mm d’Oro; Hot. dc la Ville, R. at each 2-4, board
6 1C; private lodgings), a ﬁshing-town, pleasantly situated on a spit
of land (tide) and coming into favour as abathing-resort. Small
Curhaus; excellent beach (bath 50 IL); marine hospital for children.

Grade, founded by refugees from Aquileia in L52 under the name of
Aquileia Nova or Gram, joined the Venetian naval league (p. 220 in 691
and soon became a dangerous rival of the mother-town. From 57 to 15.5!
it was the seat of a patriarch, whose title passed to the archbishop of
Venice in the latter year. Down to 1797 Grade belonged to Venice, but
since 1809 it has been, like Aquileia, under Austrian rule.

The ‘Carnnnnan was founded after the model of the churches
of Revenue by the Patriarch Elias (?; ca. 578), who is mentioned
by name in one of the early-Christian inscriptions. It is a basilica
with aisles but no transept, with a modernized narthex and various
altars of later date. — At high mass on Sun. the Camus pats-iambi-

nus, an early mediasval liturgy, is chanted by the clergy and people.

Ixrsnron. The mosaic ﬂooring is that of the original church. — In
the nave, to the left. is a Romanesque pulpit, with a canopy in the Ven-
etian Byzantine st le. — The high-altar has an antependium (pain) in em-
bossed silver (13 ). In the apse are ancient frescoes and the patriarch‘s
throne put together out of various early-Christian fragments. —- Several
early-dbristien valuables (silver pyx, reliquary) and mediteval works of

art (bronze basin with enamels, rellquery) are preserved in the lmristy
and under the Altai-e del Santissimo Sacramento.

The Conn-r of the church contains many remains of Roman and
Christian monuments, including three Roman sarcophagi.

Adjoining the cathedral is an early-Christian Baptistery. — A
few other relics of the early-Christian period may be seen in the
church of the Beata Vagina dclle Grazia, which was also founded
in the 6th century. -

