474 Route 58. FLORENCE. c. National

right: 27. Dirt Bouu ('2), Madonna; 34. H. van dar Gen (7), Madonna- 3%.
Hum Balduna Grim, Scene from the Dance of Death copyi). 1st base,
Bronzes of the Renaissance: 217. Bonacolu, CyheleCI); 1. Venetian School
(16th cent.), Fortune; 2'26. (Ros. do 3010mm, Architecture; 254., $8, .
Venetian candelabra; plaquettes and implements. 2nd Case: Enamels,
ecclesiastical and other small articles. 3rd Case: Early Christian and other
ivory carvings. 4th Case: Medals, seals, ﬁne Limoges and other enamels,
carved gems, and wood-carvings. 0n the walls are tapestry, majolica,
and tiles. -— Beneath a coloured relief of the Madonna with a worshipping
Podesth is the entrance to the —

IV. SALOON, originally a chapel, afterwards (from about 1630)
a prison for those condemned to death, adorned with sadly damaged
frescoes, ascribed to Giotto, but perhaps executed after the ﬁre in
1337 by his pupils (restored after 1840).

Opposite us: Paradise, with a portrait of Dante as a youth (to the
right). To the right and left, below, Madonna and St. Jerome, by Bastian
Muinardi (1490). On the side-walls, the history of St. Hary of Egypt and
Mary Magdalen. Over the door, the Infernal Regions.

The cases in this room contain valuable Florentine niellos
(15th cent), enamels, goldsmith’s work, etc. Also choir-stalls of
1493, and an inlaid choir—desk (1498). On the right wall, coloured
relief of the Madonna, probably by the Master of the Pellegrim‘ Chapel
(p. 225). —- The Sum Room, to the right, contains ﬁne specimens
of weaving and embroidery and handsome ecclesiastical vestinentzz
(Carrand Collection).

V. SALOON. In front are some beautiful shields and weapons.
bequeathed by C. Ressmann (1900), the statesman. The two central
cases contain carvings in ivory. In the ﬁrst are two triptychs b)‘
Baldassarc dcgli Embriarchi (p. 145); leaf of a consular triptych of
Basilius (541 ), bishop’s staff (14th cent); ststnette of the Madonna
(Florentine; 15th cent); Byzantine casket (12th cent.). By the
second window, to the right, two ivory saddles of the 14th century.
The goldsmith’s work and works in amber may also be noticed” (The
door to the left in this saloon leads to the second ﬂoor, see p. 475.)

VI. SALOON (and the VII.): Bronzes. Entrance-wall: 21. Re—
liquary of SS. Protus, Hyacinthus, and Nemesius, by Lor. Gliiberli
(1428); 20. Bertoldo, Ancient battle-scene in relief. In the case:
Iierculesland Antaeus by Ant. Pollajuolo (below, to the left); Dona-
tello, Cupid (middle row); imitations of antique and Renaissance
statuettes. — Exit-wall: ‘12, 13. Abraham's Sacriﬁce by Lor. Gbi-
berti, and the same by Fil. Brunclleschi, the earliest Renaissance
sculptures, produced in their competition for the execution of the
gates of the Baptistery (p. 451). The composition of Ghiberti is
the less harmonious but the calmer of the two. Its digniﬁed draped
ﬁgures, especially that of Isaac, are full of a true antique feeling
for beauty, while in Brunelleschi’s relief the principal ﬁgures are
represented in violent movement, and Isaac is besides remarkably
ugly. The subordinate ﬁgures, including the ram, are also in posi.
tions of over-strained activity. In technical execution Ghlberti is
superior. 14, 15. Cruciﬁxion (relief) and a small Frieze of children

