San Rocco. VENICE. 42. Route. 313

Berganlo (1517) by Sonic Lombardo and Scamaynino. It possesses
s magniﬁcent early-Renaissance facade, and a handsome old stair-
case and balls. The walls of the latter are adorned by Jae. Tinteretto
(1550-78), whose important historical position, as the ﬁrst of the
Venetian painters to represent Scriptural scenes in a perfectly
naturalistic manner, is nowhere more distinctly to be appreciated
(tdm, see p. 265; good light necessary). Hand-catalogues of the
pictures are provided.
Lona Hana, on the left wall, opposite the entrance: 1. Annunciation,
2. Adoration of the Magi, 3. Flight into Egypt, with attractive landscape,
1. Slsughter of the Innocents, . Mary Magdalen, in a landscape under
, evenin -light. On the altar, Gtroi. Campam, Statue of St. Rochus. Right
wall: . Landscape with St. Mary of Egypt; 2. Presentation in the Temple;
3. Assumption of the Virgin. — On the right side of the staircase over the
- ﬁrst landing is an ’Annunciation by “Man, eluted in 1525 and suggestive
of ‘the distance which separates the simp e staidness of older pictorial
forms from the gorgeous brilliancy of Titian‘s time‘. Opposite, a Visita-
tion by Tintoreuo. The frescoes on the wells of the upper staircase,
referring to the Issue, are by Zanchi (1666; on the right) and Newt
(1673; on the left}:
At the top, on the right, is a small room containing an Ecce Homo,
In early work by ﬁtters. -- In the Lane: HALL, above the door of
the room just named, Raising of Lazarus; farther to the left, Christ
feeding the multitude. At the altar, 8t. Rochus in clouds; at the sides,
statues of St. Sebastian and John the Baptist, by Girol. Campam. 0n the
left wall: 1. The Last Sup er, 2. Gethsemane, 3. Resurrection of Christ,
1. Baptism, and 5. Birth 0 Christ. 0n the opposite wall: 1. Temptation
of Christ (below, a portrait of Tintoretto, 1578). 2. Pool of Bethesda, 3. As-
cension. 0n the ceiling, Moses smiting the rock, the Brazen Serpent, the
Shower of manna, and single ﬁgures of Prophets. Handsome wallpanel-
ling, with ﬁgures carved in wood, by Piaula. The altar-reliefs of scenes
from the life of St. Roch are by 0400. Hare/start (1720 . Fine marble pave-
ment with inlaid work, restored by Device in 1885- from designs by Sar-
cardo. — The door to the right leads into the Sana DELL‘ Ansanoo,
containing Tintoreuo‘: masterpiece, a large ‘Crucitixion of 1566. Opposite,
Bearing of the Cross, Mocking of Christ, and Christ before Pilate. 0n
the ceiling, 5t. Rochus in presence of God.

The gateway adjoining the Scuola leads to the ancient church of
Ban Pentaledne (Pl. D, 5), rebuilt in 1668-75. It is adorned with
a huge ceiling-painting by Fumiam', representing the martyrdom
and gloriﬁcation of St. Pantsleon (ca. 1700). The chapel to the
left of the high-altar (generally closed) contains (on the right) a
Coronation of the Virgin by Ant. Vioan‘ni and Giov. Alcmamto (cov-
ered), painted in 1444: also an Entombment in high relief, ascribed
to Marina Cedrino (1466).

Crossing the Bio 111 Ci. Foscari, and traversing the long Campo
Santa Margherita (Pl. D, 5, 6), we reach the church of —

Santa. Maria del Carmine (Pl. D, 6), known as .1 Carmini, which
was consecrated in 1348, and restored in the 17th century.

Over the 2nd altar on the right, Gima do Compliant», ‘Adoration of
the Shepherds and saints; 4th altar on the right, Tintoretto, Circumcision,
a youthful work; 2nd altar on the left, Lormo Lotto, St. Nicholas with
""90 ”1861s and SS. John the Baptist and Lucy on clouds, painted in
1529. and showing solidity of handling and a true sense of beauty (damaged);

by the 5th altar on the left, Pieth, an admirable bronze relief by Verrocho,
of Florence. .

