CHIAVENNA. 4. Route. 15

From Pianazso a road ascends to the “E. to (11/4 M.) Mndeaimo

(19mm, 3 prettily situated village with a chalybeate spring and a ‘Ilydro-
panic. .
34 M. Campodolcino [3456 ft.; Oroce d’Oro) consists of four
large groups of houses. The second contains the church. The Lira
Valley ( Valle San Giacomo) is strewn with fragments of rock, but
the wildness of the scene is softened by the luxuriant foliage of
the chestnuts lower down, from which rises the slender campanile
ofthe church of Gauioaggio. Beyond San Giacomo the rich luxuriance
of Italian vegetation unfolds itself to the view.

41 M.‘ Chiavenna. — Hotels. ‘l-Io'rnr. Connor 31' Posts, 1/4 M.
from the railway-station. with railway ticket office and electric light,
11. 21/34, B. 11/2, déj. 2V2, D. 341/2, 8. 21/2, pens. til/TS, omn. 1/2-8/4 in;
Macao Bra-eon, at the station, E. 21/2, B. i fix, well spoken of. — ALs.
CRIIIA s- Cnuvn n‘Ono, on the Promenade, B. 11/2, D. 2-3 fr.. Italian;
his. Bax Paono, unpretending.

The Station (Gaﬂ-Rataurant, D. incl. wine 21/2 in; beer) lies to the
ll. of the town. Through-tickets are here issued to the steamboatrststions
on the Lago di Como, with coupon for the omnibus-journey between the
railway-station and the quay at Calico. -— Diligence Ofﬁce at the station.

Chiaoerma (1090 it), the Roman Olaocrma, an ancient town
with 4100 inhab., is charmingly situated on the Mora, at the mouth
of the Val Bregaglia, through which the road to the Maloja Pass and
the Engadine leads to the E. Opposite the Hotel Conradi are the
ruins of an unﬁnished palace och Solis, the last governor appointed
by the Grisons. Picturesque view from the castle-garden or ‘Paradiso’
(adm. 50 c.). — San Lorenzo, the principal church, has a slender
clock-tower or campanile, rising from an arcaded enclosure which
was formerly the burial-ground. The octagonal Battistcrio (closed;
fee 15-20 0.) contains a font of 1206, adorned with reliefs.

The hills of the Val (Yapdola contain many ‘Marmitte dei Giganti‘
Eggs kettles) or ancient ‘glacier-mills‘ of all sizes (guides at the

The RAILWAY 'ro Conico (fares, see p. i4) traverses three tun-
nels soon after starting, beyond which we enjoy a ﬁne retrospect of
Ghiavenna. Rich vine-bearing country. The valley ( Piano di Chia-
cenna) is enclosed on both sides by lofty mountains. The lower-
lying districts are exposed to the inundations of the Liro and Mara,
Which unite below Chiavenna. On the right bank of the Meta lies
Gordona, at the mouth of the Val delta Forcola, beyond which
the Boggia forms a pretty waterfall in its precipitous descent
from the narrow Val Bodmgo. — 6 M. Samdlaco is the station for
the large village of that name on the opposite (right) bank of the
Hera, at the mouth of the Val Mengasca. Near (81/2 M.) Novatc
(Marsala) the railway reaches the Lago di Mczzola (650 it), originally
the N. bay of the Lake of Como, from which it has been almost
Separated by the deposits of the Adda. The narrow channel which
connects the lakes has again been rendered navigable. To the
3. appears the pyramidal Monte Legnone (p. 160). The railway,
inpported by masonry and traversing tunnels, crosses the Adda

