Pal. ofthe Dog“. VENICE. 42. Route. 279

Beyond this room (to the right of the throne) is the Arrrr-
cmsm'ra, or vestibule to the chapel of the Doges, containing two
pictures by J. Tintoreuo, SS. Jerome and Andrew, and SS. Louis,
Margaret, and George. — In the Guru. (Chiesetta), over the altar,
Statue of the Madonna by Samoatno (1536). On the entrance-
wsl], Andr. Previtali, Israelites crossing the Red Sea, Christ in
Hades. —— We return through the Sale del Senate, and from the
Sail delle Qusttro Porte pass through an anteroom (left) to the —

VI. Sana mu. CONsremo nnr Dmor (comp. p. 266). Entrance
wall: Pope Alexander [11. and Doge Seb. Ziani (p. Q80), the con-
queror of Emp. Fred. Barbarossa, by Leandra Banana,- opposite,
the Peace of Bologna between Pope Clement VII. and Emp. Char—
les V., 1529, by Marco Vecelli. Back-wall: Adoration of the Magi,
by Aliensc. Ceiling-paintings, partly copies of Veronese and partly
by Batt. chotti and others; the ‘Old Man supporting his head with
his hand (at the back) is by P. Veronese himself.

VII. Sam DELLA Bussom, ante-chamber of the three Inquisitors
of the Republic. 011 the entrance-wall (the present egress) is an
opening, formerly sdomed with a lion‘s head in marble, into the
mouth of which (Becca di Leone) secret notices were thrown. This
room contains two pictures by Alieme: on the entrance-wall, Tak-
ing of Brescia, 1426, opposite, Taking of Bergamo, i427; chimney-
pieoe by Sansocino; opposite, Doge Leon. Donate kneeling before
the Madonna, by Marco Vecclli. 0n the ceiling, St. Mark surround-
ed by angels, by Paolo Veronese (a copy). -- The room to the right
is the —

VIII. Sana mar CAP! (the three heads of the Council of Ten).
Central ceiling-painting, an angel driving away the vices, of the
school of Paolo Vermese; chimney-piece by Sansovino, with carya-
tides by Pietro da Sale. On the entrance-wall: Madonna and Child,
two saints, and Doge Leon. Loredan, by Vine. Catena. —-— We now
return to the Sela della Bussola and- descend to the —

CmnaL FLoon, to which the Scala dei Censori leads direct (on
Sun. and holidays, see p. 277). To the right is the Archaeological
Museum (p. 281), to the left are the Library (1). 281) and the ——

Sana DEL Manama Coxsmuo, 55 yds. long, 26 yds. broad,
47 ft. high, which was the assembly-hull of the Great Council
(p.266). The balcony affords a ‘View of the lagoons, with the is-
lands of San Giorgio and the Giudecca opposite, and the Lido to
the left. The ceiling-paintings, which represent battles of the
Venetians, are by P. Veronese, Franc. Bassano, Jae. Tintoretto,
and Palma Giovane; the best are *Venice crowned by Fame (in the
large oval next the entrance) by Paolo Veroneae, and Doge Niccolo
da Fonts in the presence of Venice, with the senate and ambassa-
dors of the conquered cities (in the rectangle in the centre), by
Ida. Tintoretto. On the frieze are the portraits of 76 doges, begin-
ning with Obolerio Antenoreo (cl. 810), the ninth «loge of the con-

