GBAT UITIES. Xv

sidiou, i.e. concealed weapons (sword-sticks; even knives with
spring-blades, etc), are absolutely prohibited.

Begging (muttonaggio), always one of those national nuisances
to which the traveller in Italy must accustom himself, has recently
somewhat increased, especially in Tuscany, owing partly to growing
poverty, but largely also to the misplaced generosity of travellers.
As the profits of street-beggars too frequently go for the support of
able-bodied loafers, travellers should either give nothing, or restrict-
their charity to the obviously inﬁrm. Gratuities to children are
entirely reprehensible. — Importnnate beggars should be dismissed
with ‘niente’ or by a gesture of negation.

VI. Gratuities. Guides.

Gratuities. — The traveller should always be abundantly
supplied with copper and nickel coin in a country where triﬂing
donations are in constant demand. Drivers, guides, and other per-
sons of the same class invariably expect, and often demand as their
right, a gratuity (buona mono, manoia, da bare, bottiglia, calfe,
#9570) in addition to the hire agreed on, varying according to circum-
stances from 2-8 sons to a franc or more. The traveller need have
no scruplc in limiting his donations to the smallest possible sums.
The following hints will be found useful by the average tourist. In
private collections 1-,? visitors should bestow a gratuity of 1/34 in,
3-4 pers. 141/, fr. For repeated visits 25 c. is enough for a single
visitor. For opening a church—door, etc., 10-20 0. is enough, but if
extra services are rendered (e4. uncovering an altar-piece, lighting
candles, etc.) from 1/4 to 1 fr. may be given. The Custodi of all
public collections where an admission—fee is charged are forbidden
to accept gratuities. — In hotels and restaurants about 5-10 per
cent of the reckoning should be given in gratuities, or less if service
is charged for.

Vale“ de Place ( Guide, sing. to Guide) may be hired at 6-10 fr.
per day. The most trustworthy are those attached to the chief
hotels. In some towns the better guides have formed societies as
‘Guide patentate’ or ‘Guide autorizzate’. Their services may generally
well be dispensed with by those who are not pressed for time. Pur-
chases should never be made, nor contracts with vetturini or other
persons drawn up, in presence or with the aid of a commissionnaire,
as any such intervention tends considerably to increase the prices.

VII. Railways. Steamboats.

Railways. -— For visitors to Northern Italy the most important
railways are the Rate Medmnama, the Rate Adv-tattoo, and the
Favovie Nerd We, the lastaﬁ‘ording quick and convenient access
to the Lake of Como and the Lago Maggiore, though it is not in—
cluded in the system of circular tours in Italy. The rate of travelling

