524 Route 59. GASOINE. Environs

Ciao" (St. Francis receiving the stigmata). — A staircase descends hence
to the Lown Cnnncu, with the tombs of the Awiajoll. In the chapel
immediately in front of us are the mural monument of Niccolo Acclsjoli
(d. 1366), founder oi the church, by Orcagna(?), and three Gothic monu-
mental slabs, the best of which is that of the youthful Lor. Acciajoli
(d. 1353). The side-chapel to the left of the entrance contains the Renais-
sance monument (restored in 1550) of Cardinal Angelo Acciajoli (d. 1409).
— We then return through the main church and enter the Cnorsrne, with
stained glass in the style of Giovanni da (Mine. — To the ri tin the
Cnar’rnn Hones: Man'ouo Albertinem, Cruciﬁxion (fresco of 1 ); monu-
ment of the Carthulian Leonardo Buonafede by Franc. da Sangauo (1555).
— We next enter the Moxasnnr Gasman, which also serves as a burial-
ground, and is surrounded by handsome cloisters. At the sides are 18 mostly
empty cells, which enclose the building like pinnacles. The projecting
Tnnnacne on the N. side commands a picturesque view of the hills of
Florence and Flesole.

(e.) Mom Onrvn'ro AND Bannosonanno. About 1/3 M. beyond
the Ports San Fredisno (Pl. B, 4; omnibus, p. 434) the ‘Via di
Monte Oliveto’ diverges to the left from the Empoli and Piss road,
and reaches the (1/2 M.) entrance to the garden of the Badia di San
Bartolomeo di Monte Olivoto (9.70 ft.) founded in 1334 (key next
door, No. 10; fee 20-30 c.). A slight eminence here, planted with
cypresses, commands an admirable view, now somewhat interrupted
by trees. —— The monastery-buildings are now used as a military
hospital. The church, restored in the style of Michelozzo in 1472,
possesses frescoes by Poccetti. In the priest's house are the remains
of a fresco of the Last Supper by Saddma.

From the Monte Oliveto the Via di Monte Oliveto leads to the
S., crossing a small square, to (1/2 M) the Villa. Bellosgnardo,
near the entrance of which we obtain one of the ﬁnest *Views of
Florence. Adjacent is the Villa Zoubow, occupied by Galileo in
1617-31, and now marked by inscription and bust. We return to
the city from the above-mentioned square by the Via di Bello-
sguardo (to the E.), the Via di San Francesco di Paola (Pl. A, 5),
and the Barriers Petrarca.

(f. ) The Gascine, or park of Florence, lies to the W., beginning
at the Piazza degli Zuavi (Pl. A, B, 1, 2), and is about 2 M. in
length, but of moderate breadth, being bounded by the Arno and
the Mngnone (p. 526). It aﬂords delightful and refreshing walks
to the traveller fatigued with sight—seeing; in the more distant
parts it is covered with woods. The name is derived from a farm to
which it once belonged (cascina = dairy). In the proper season it
is a fashionable rendezvous in the late afternoon, particularly for
driving. -— Outside the town, immediately to the left, is a small
Cafe Restaurant. — About the middle of the Cascine is a large open
space, the Piazsale del Re (where a military band plays on Sun. and
festivals in summer), with the Casino dcllc Casclne, a frequented
cafe-restaurant. Beyond this spot the park is comparatively deserted,
and it terminates about 1 M. farther on at the monument of the
Rajah of Holapore, who died at Florence in 1870, and whose body
was burnt at this spot. Fine view of the W. environs of Florence,

