394 Route 53. BAVENNA. Environs.

About 2 M. from the Porto Nuooa (Pl. F, 7), and not far
from the ancient harbour of Ravenna, which has been entirely
silted up since the 18th cent., is the church of Santaxaria in
Porto Fuori, a basilica with open roof, erected by the Blessed
Pietro degli Onesti (‘Pietro i1 Peccatore’) in 1096 et seq. The left
aisle contains an ancient Christian sarcophagus with the bones of
the founder (d. 1119). The choir and the adjacent chapels contain
beautiful frescoes by masters of the Rimihi school (13-14th cent.).
The massive substructures of the lofty square campanile are said to
have belonged to an old lighthouse (fare). The church is mentioned
by Dante (Paradiso xxr, 123).

 

No traveller should quit Ravenna without visiting the church of San‘
Aronunaa rs CLASSE, situated 8 M. to the 8.15. of the Ports Nuova. This
may be done either by carriage (with one horse, there and back. about
3-]. fr.- comp. p. 384), or by the railwa between Ravenna and Bimini.
or by the steam-tramway mentioned at . (trains stop at Claus between
June 1st and Sept. 30th only; fares , 45, 350.). About halfway, both
the road and the railway cross the united rivers (Fiumt' Uni“) Roma and
Montone.

*Sant' Apollinare in Claus Fnori, erected under Archbishop
Ursicinus (535-38) by Juliana: Argentarius (‘the treasurer’) outside
the gates of Classis, was consecrated in 549 by St. Maximian, after-
wards belonged for a long period to a Camaldulensian monastery
(comp. p. 385), and was restored in 1779. This is the largest of the
basilicas still existing at Ravenna. It consists of a nave and aisles,
with a vestibule at the W. end, and a handsome round campanile.
The exterior exhibits traces of an attempt to relieve the surfaces of
the walls with indications of pilasters and arches: (For unlocking
the doors, 50 c.)

The spacious Illusion (now almost destitute of colour) rests on twenty~
four cipollino columns, and has an open roof added in the middle ages.
The walls of the Naps and Aisles, which were stripped of their marble

anelling by Bigismondo Malatesta in M49, have been adorned since the
{Sth cent. with portraits of bishops and archbishops oi Ravenna an un-
broken series of 130, from the ﬁrst successor of St. Apollina a, who
suffered martyrdom in 74 under Vespasian, to the present archbishop Each
aisle contains four marble sarcophagi of archbishops (6-8th cent). A
niche in the right aisle probably once contained the remains of St. Apolll~
naris. In the left aisle s an inscription relating to the penance performed
here by Emp. Otho III. at the instigation of St. Romuald. Farther on
is an ancient capital used as a hol water basin. At the end of the aisle
is a tabernacle of the 9th cent., th an altar of the thh century. — The
Nave contains a marble altar, in the ancient fashion, said to have been
erected by St. Maximianus. — The Car" (12th cent.)., a kind of corridor
in which the remains of St. Apollinaris were deposited in 1178, is some-
times under water. The bronze window-grating| seen from without, is
ancient. — Above the crypt is the broad ﬂight of steps (restored in 1723)
leading to the Tarsuss, with the high-altar. The modern canopy of the
latter is borne by four ancient columns of black and white Oriental
marble. The two ends of the choir-bench terminate in the episcopal
throne of St. Damianus (688-705), which has been sawn through. The
dome of the tribune is adorned with well-preserved Mosaic: of the 6th
and 7th‘cent.: in the centre, a large cross on a blue ground with gilded
stars,.thh the Transﬁguration, at the sides, Moses and Elias, below whom

