University. PADUA. 40. Route. 249

found abundant occupation here. The native artists were introduced to
the antique by the classical scholars; and the school of art founded here by
Francesco Squarcione (1397-1470 exhibits a peculiar docirinm‘rs character.
Squarcione, though not a professional artist. made a valuable collection of
works of art during his travels, and caused young artists to make draw-
ings from these models. The austere style peculiar to the Paduan pictures
is perhaps due to this doctrinm're training of the artists and to the in-
ﬂuence of Donatello. The greatest master of the Paduan school, which
materially inﬂuenced that of Venice in the 15th cent., was Andrea Man-
tegna (p. 236), who exhibits an almost northern, Albrecht-Dhrer-like
severity of style. The chief work of his early period is in the church
of the Eremitani. A distinguishing characteristic of the school is its
predilection for richness of decoration, for which Squarcione‘s collection
doubtless supplied abundant models. .

From the Main Railway Station (Pl. D, 1) we follow the tram-
way-line through the Barriers Mazzini and across the piazza of that
name (P1. 0, 2) to the (6 min.) centre of the town. — In the ad-
joining PrazzA PBTEAEOA rises a monument to Petrarch, erected
by the town on 18th June, 1874, the 500th anniversary of his death.
—— 0n the N. side of the piazza stand the small, aisleless Church of
iCarmini and the Douala del Carmine (Pl. 0, 2; now a baptistery;
sacristan in the cloisters), with sadly-damaged 16th cent. frescoes
from the lives of Christ and St. Joachim, Anna, and Mary.

Left of the altar: Titian, Meeting of Joachim and Anna. executed in
1511, at the same time as the frescoes in the Scuola del Santo (p. 252; badly
injured); to the left, Girolamo da Santa Croce, Birth of Mary Presentation
in the Temple, Puriﬁcation and Sposalizlo; on the end-wail, Dom. 0am-
pagnola, Birth of Christ and Adoration of the Magi; the others, on the
window-wall, by inferior masters. Altar-piece, Madonna and Child, by
Palm: Vecchs’o ('1).

Near the Piazza Pctrarca are the Pants Molina (Pl. 0, 3) and a
Tower, bearing the (modem) inscription, ‘mesto avanzo di nefanda
tirannia: Ezzelino eresse 1250’, which recalls the tyranny of Ezze-
lino da Romano (p. 223). From the bridge the Via Dante leads
direct to the Piazza dell’ Unitd d’Italia and the Cathedral (p. 250).

In the meantime we follow the tramway to the left, traversing
the Via Garibaldi, from which the Via Giovanni Gittadella leads to
the left to the Madonna dell’ Arena and the Eremitani (p. 255).
The Via Garibaldi brings us to the Puzzs Gsnrnunr (Pl. D, 3)
and the PIAZZA Gsvoun (Pl. D, 4), which, with the neighbouring
Via Otto Febbraio (Pl. D, 4), now form the chief centre of life and
business.

In the Via Otto Febbraio, to the left, stands the University
(Pl. D, 4; about 1300 students), occupying a building called ‘Il
Bo‘, from a tavern with the sign of the ox which once existed in
the vicinity. In the handsome colonnades in the court, erected in
1552 by Jae. Sansovino, are numerous names and armorial bearings
of distinguished ‘ciocs academics”. Handsome aula.

Opposite are two streets leading to the W. to the PIAZZA mgr
Fnum and the Fuzz; DELL]! EEBE (Pl. 0, 4). At the NE. angle
of the latter is the Palazzo dcl Municipio (Pl. 0, D, 4), of the 16th
cent., and on the 8. side the modern Palazzojcue Debite. Between

