Madonna dell' Arena. PADUA. 40. Route. 255

The Eremitani (Pl. D, 3), an old Augustine church of the
middle of the 13th cent, restored in 1880, is a long building with
painted vaulting of wood,'containing ‘Frescoes by Andrea Man-
tegna and his contemporaries of the school of Squarcione, which
are among the most important examples of Northern Italian art.

By the entrance-wall are two painted altars of terracotta, probably by
Gino. lﬂnello, that to the right with a fresco of 1511. On the right and
left are the elaborate Gothic tombs of Ubertinc da Carrara (1338-45) and
Jacopo (i1 Minore) da Carrarn (136550), by Andn'olo «1111' San“ of Venice,
brought hither from the church of Sant‘ Agostino (pulled down in 1820).
In the centre of the left wall is the tomb of the jurist Benavides (d.1582),
by the Florentine B. Ammanuu.

0n the walls of the Cnorn are poor frescoes, ascribed to Guan‘ento:

Astronomical representations, Scones from the life of St. Augustine (re-
painted), etc. —- In the chapel to the right of the highealtar: Guart'enlo ('0,
Coronation of the Virgin. — Sacmsrr (entrance from the choir, to the
left): Guido Rem', John the Baptist. -
. The Csrraua Satin Jacoro it Cms'rorono, adjoining the right transept,
is embellished with celebrated frescoes, now damaged, yet still very at-
tractive, with ornamentation showing the indebtedness of the School of
Squat-done to its study of the antique. The Evangelists on the ceiling are
the poorest, and probably the earliest part of the work. The four upper
sections on the wall on the right are also by inferior artists; the two
highest scenes, representing St. James as a worker of miracles, and St. James
before the king, are by an unknown master (Marco Zoppo 1’); the St.
Christopher with the Infant Christ is by Bone of Ferrara; the adoration
of the giant saint (central section on the right) is by Amuino da Forlt. The
paintings on the wall and vaulting of the recesses of the choir are bv Nic-
colo Pinata, an able Padnan, who died young. By far the most important
Ire the 'Pictures with which Andrea Mantegna completed the cycle be-
tween 1‘53 and 1459. The left wall presents to us the life of St. James
from his call to his execution. The lower scenes exhibit greater ability
Ind matur.ty than the upper, so that we can almost trace the master‘s
Progress step by step. The Execution and Burial of St. Christopher, the
lowest pictures on the right well, subsequently added by Mantegna, are
sadly injured. — The large terracotta altar-relief of the Madonna and saints
is by Gino. da Pisa, a pupil of Donatello (p. 248), but has been spoiled by
a modern coat of paint.

On the N. side of the piazza in front of the church is the
entrance 3a battlemented iron gate; if closed, ring; adm. 9-4, 1 in;
holidays -2, 20 0.; on certain high festivals, free) to the -—

Madonna dell’ Arena (Pl. D, 3), situated in an oval garden
which shows the outlines of an ancient amphitheatre. The chapel,
oblong in form, was erected by Scrovegno in 1303. Its walls and
Vaulting are completely covered with a series of “Frescoes by
Giotto, most of them well preserved (restored by Betti). The period
of their execution is determined by the fact that Dante and Giotto
met at Padus in 1306 (comp. pp. x1 et seq.). Morning-light best.
Catalogues are provided for the use of visitors.

These frescoes represent the Hrsronr or ran Visors arm Cnms’r, from
the apocryphal Proto-Evangelium and the New Testament and end, accord-
mg to ancient custom, with the Las’r Junousu’r, painted on the entrance
wall. The lower part of this last work, much injured, was probably exe-
cuted chieﬂy by Giotto's pupils, but the master—hand is revealed in the
l‘outhful Christ at the top, surrounded by apostles, angels, and saints.

The Paintings on the side-walls are arranged in four rows, one. above
another. The Um-nnnosr llow (beginning to the right of the choir—arch)

