to Piazza dell’ Indipendema. FLORENCE. 58. Route. 491

Adjacent to the church is the entrance to the once far—famedV
‘lfonutery of San Marco (Pl. G, 3), suppressed in 1867, and now
restored and ﬁtted up as the Museo di San Marco (adm., see p. 487;
catalogue, 1869, 11/2 fr.). The building was originally occupied
by ‘Silvestrine’ monks, but was transferred under Cosimo the Elder
to the Dominicans, who were favoured by the Medici. In 1437—43
it was restored in a handsome style from designs by Michelosso,
and shortly afterwards it was decorated by Era Giovanni Angelico
da Fiesolc (1387-1465) with those charming *Frescoes which to this
day are unrivalled in their portrayal of profound and devoted piety.
The painter Fro Bartolomeo della Porto (1475-1517) was a monk
in this monastery from 1500 and the powerful preacher Girolamo
Savonarola (burned at the stake in 1498, see p. 442) also once

lived here.

The Finer Caoisuns, which are entered immediately from the street,
contain a fresco by ﬂees!“ in the 5th lunette to the right of the entrance,
showing the original facade of the cathedral (comp. p. ‘52), and four
otherlunettes with frescoes by Na Angelica: to the left of Poccetti‘s fresco,
over the entrance to the ‘foresteria‘, or apartments devoted to hospitality,
‘Christ as a pilgrim welcomed by two Dominican monks (‘No scene more
true, more noble, Or more exquisitely rendered than this, can be
imagined’: 0. d‘ 0.); over the door of the refectory, Christ with tho
wound-prints, the head of elevated beaut and divine gentleness; over the
door to the chapter-house (see below), t. Dominic with the scourge of
nine thongs (damaged); farther on, over the door to the sacristy, St. Peter
the Martyr, indicating the rule of silence peculiar to the order by placing
his tlnger on his lips. To the right of the last is a fifth fresco )y I’ra
Angelica Christ on the Cross, with St. Dominic. — The second door in
the wall opposite the entrance leads to the Cusr’rak House, which contains
a large 'Cruciilxion (Christ between the thieves), surrounded by a group of
twenty saints. all lifesize, with busts of Dominicans below, by Fra Angelica.
The sympathetic grief of the saints is most poignantly expressed.

The door in the E. corner of the cloisters leads to a vestibule contain-
ing photographs of Fra Angelico‘s paintings, beyond which is the Gaza-r
Barnum-oat. The back—wall of the latter is adorned with the so-called
“Providence (the brothers and St. Dominic seated at a table and fed by
two angels), and a Cruciﬁxion by Glow. Ant. Sogltani.

The door to the left of the chapter-house leads to the Broom) Coorsrans,
which, with the rooms on the right, have accommodated since 1898 the
architectural fragments (chieﬂy medircval), costs-of-arms, inscriptions,
sou] tures, and frescoes removed from the demolished palazzl of the Centrn
(p. £45). — To the right of the passage is the SHALL Rana-roar, contain-
ing a Last Supper by Dom. Ghirlandqlo. —- Adjoining is the staircase to
the upper floor.

UPPER FLOOR. The corridors and the adjacent cells are adorned with
a succession of frescoes by Fm Angelica and his pupils. In the in Con—
nmon, immediately opposite the staircase, the Annunciation, a work of
very tender feeling; to the left of the entrance, Christ on the Cross with
St. Dominic. — In the Clans: 3rd (to the left), Annunciation; 6th, ’I‘rans-
ﬁguration; opposite, in the corridor, ‘Madonna enthroned, with saints;
8. The two Marisa at the Sepulchre; 9. ’Coronation of the Virgin, whose
humble joy is beautifully depicted. The Last Cuts in the adjoining cor-
ridor were once occupied by Savonarola. In No. 12 are a. relief (1867) and
a bronze bust of Savonarola by Dupre, and three frescoes by Ira Barto-
lomeo: Two Madonnas, and, on the left wall, Christ as a pilgrim received
by two monks (portraits of two priors of the monastery). Cell No. 13
contains a portrait of Savonarola by Fra Bartolomeo, and autographs,
No. 14 his cruciﬁx and a copy of an old picture representing his execu-

