a. Piano dd Principe. GENOA. 1.6. Route. 81

Ante-Chamber: Battle-pieces by Burraaca. Room on the right: Van
Dyck Portrait of Marchesa Durazzo; good portrait of the Lombard School,
attributed to Leon. do ﬁnd; Perin do! Vaga, Holy Family. To the
right, ahsndsome gallery with rococo-painting and a few ancient and
modern statues: on the right, Apollo and Apollino, on the left, Mercury;
at the end, Rape of Proserpine by Schiafﬁno. 0n the left, Cruciﬁxion by
Van Dyck; Woman taken in adultery, Moreno,- Sibyl, Gucrcino. In the
throne-room, two large pictures by Luca Giordano.

The Via Balbi ends at the PIAZZA Aoonammr (Pl. 0, 2), the
large square in front of the railway-station, the terminus of the
electric tramway along the Via di Circonvallazione a Monte, and a
station on the electric line to the Piazza Deferrarl (comp. p. 68).
011 the N. side of the Piazz embosomed in palm-trees, rises the
marble statue of Columbus erected in 1862), who was probably
born at Genoa in 1446 or 1447 (d. in 1606 at Valladolid). At the
feet of the status, which leans on an anchor, kneels the ﬁgure
of America. — Opposite (S.E.) 'is the Palasso Faraggiana, with a
marble relief in the pediment representing scenes from the life of
Columbus.

To the W. of the station is the PIAZZA DBL PnINcIrn (Pl. B, 2),
which commands a good view of part of the old fortiﬁcations. A
large Bronze Monument, 40 ft. high, by Giulio Monteverde, was
erected here in 1896 in honour of the Duke of Galliera (pp. 71, 72).
It represents Liberality, led by a winged genius and handing to
Mercury treasures from her cup. 0n the pedestal is a medallion of
the duke. — No. 4 in the piazza W. side) is the long —

Delano Doria. (Pl. A, B, 3, presented in 1522 to Andrea
Doria, ‘padre della patria’ (d. 156 ,at the age of 92). It was remod-
elled in 1529 from designs by Fm Giov. Aug. Montorsoli, and
adorned with frescoes and grotesques by Pcrin del Vaga. The elder
branch of the Doria family, to which the palace belongs, has allied
itself with the Pamphili family, and generally resides at Rome.

The long Latin inscription on the side next the street records that
Andrea d'On‘a, admiral of the Papal, Imperial, French, and native ﬂeets,
in order to close his eventful career in honourable repose, caused the
palace to be rebuilt for himself and his successors. His praises were
thus sung by Ariosto: ‘questo e quel Doria, che fa dai pirati slouro il
Vostro mar per tutti i lati‘.

To the right in the court is a large areaded lo gin, to the left a taste-
ful garden and a fountain by the Carlona (1599-5601), with a statue of
Andrea Doria as Neptune. — The last door on the right admits us to the
Ipartments with Per-in del Vaya‘a anscons (restored in 1845). On the ceiling,
vaulting, and lunettes of the great entrance-hall are scenes from Roman
history, below which are reliefs by Montana“; on the staircase are laste-
inl grotesques. A corridor on the ﬁrst ﬂoor, with portraits of the Doria
funily, is charmingly decorated with stucco and painted ornaments in the
Wis 01 Raphael‘s loggie in the Vatican; a saloon with a large ceiling-paint-
mg, Jupiter overthrowing the Titans (superb chimney-piece); and a side-
room with a ceiling—fresco o! the Car-its Romans.

The gardens on the hill beyond the railway-line, with a colossal
statue of Hercules (‘Il Gigantc’) in a niche, also belong to the estate.

A Cable Tramway (No. 8, p. 68) ascends from the Piazza Principe to

Granarolo (770 ft.; Riuorante Beda , which commands a line view of the
town and the Val Polcevérs (p. .

Bunmn. Italy I. 12th Edit. 6 s

