venom. 37. Route. 221

Riroalto, the most secure of all the islands, was selected in 811 as
the seat of government, and here accordingly the city of Venice was founded.
Apostles Partsctpatr'us is said to have been the ﬁrst doge whose residence
occupied the site of the present Palace of the Doges. Situated between

Byrantine and Franconian empires, Venice became a connecting link

between the trade of each and the great depot of the trafﬁc between the
East and the West. In a Venetian ﬂeet brought the body of St. Hark
to Venice, end thencet‘orth the Venetians revered him as their tutelary
taint, using his emblem, the lion (Rev. iv. 7), as their cognizance, and his
name as synonymous with the republic while their supreme ofﬁcial func-
tionaries were styled ‘Proeurators of ﬁt. Mark‘. In the interests of her
commerce Venice was at length induced to make foreign conquests. These
were at ﬁrst conﬁned to the lstrlan and Dalmatian coasts for the purpose
0f procuring timber and suppressing piracy. The rivalry that e rang up with
Genoa during the Crusades led the Venetians to eﬁect a footing n the Levant,
ind to establish extensive colonies. At the same time the constitution of the
state derelo d into a rigorous oligarchy, which with terrible impartial-
ity contrive to keep both the nobility and people in check, and eﬁ‘ectu-
ally to curb the national desire for liberty. In the neighbouring towns
the supreme power rested on a foundation altogether dld’erent. The re-
publics had been overthrown by the despots, who, supported by mercen~
Iry troops and the favour of the lower classes, had founded principali-
“es in the modern sense of the word. Such were the Visconti in Milan,
the Scaligers in Verona, the Carrara in Padua, the Gonzaga in Iantua,
and the Este in Ferraro. The danger of collision with warlike princes,
Ind the support they aﬁorded to every attempt to overthrow the Venetian
constitution, led to their own downfall. Venice, having made conquests
on the mainland (term fem-a) for the sake of her own safety , soon bc«
mne one of the chief Italian powers, and was thus involved in all the
interminable wars caused by the rivalry of the different states. She ob-
tained permanent possession of Trcotw in 1339, Viacom in “04, Padua and
70m in 1405, We in “.19, (Mine in 1420, Brssda in 1426, Bergman in
“28, Ore-ma in “be, and Mac in “84. In the market-places of these
towns the lion of St. Mark was erected as a token of their subjugation, and
Venetian nobles were appointed their governors. The district thus con-
wed extended to about 13,” sq. M., besides the Dalmatian possessions
( sq. M.) and the settlements in the Levant. Napoleon at length over-
threw the Republic, which had long been in a tottering condition. 0!:
15th and 16th Kay, 17!", Venice was occupied by French troops under
Bmguav d‘Hthers, this being the ﬁrst occasion on which it had ever
been captured by an enemy. In the Peace of Campoformio (1797) it was
ldjudged to Austria, but by the Peace of Pressburg in 1805 the Austrians
Were compelled to cede it to Italy. On the fall of Napoleon it was again
Irﬁded to Austria, but in 1866 it was ﬁnally incorporated with the Kingdom
a sly.

37. Verona.

Railway Stations: (1) Station: Porto Vescdvo (Pl. I, 6, rail. restaurant,
9. incl. wine 31 a fix), the principal station, about 11/211. to the E. of the
Hana Vittorio man'uele. — (2) Stations Porto Nuora (Pl. 3, 6), I/q M. to
he S.W. of the Piazza Vitt. Emanuele, where the hotel-omnibuses await
he trains from Tyrol, Milan, and Bologna (luggage is not booked by ex-
vrese4rains from this station). — (3) Stan'ons Porto San Giorgio (Pl. E, 1),
or the line to Domegliare (p. i9) and Caprino (p. 234).

notch (see . xix). Guano H6131. na Lonnaas :1 Born. Daox Tones
P]. b; F, 3), Sorso Sant‘ Anastasia, in the centre of the town, with
team-heating and covered court, R. 5-6, B. 11/2, déj. 8-31/1, D. 5,
Inn. 11/. fr., Ga. 861-. Commas 12‘an (Pl. e; D, 3), Via Colomba, near
he“! Vitt. Emanuele, B. Bl/s-dl/z. B. 1‘ s, déj. 3, D. nil/a, omn. 14‘]: fr. —
Wand-class (with trattorie): 'Ho'rnr. vs San Lorenzo (Pl. d; D, 3),
Bree-bly situated on the Adige, Riva San Lorenzo, R. from 2%, B. 1'/¢,

