446 Route 58. FLORENCE. a. Piazza

streets; the upper part dates from the 15th century. The inscription
placed over the door in 1529 (‘Jesus Christos Rex Florentini popull
s. p. decreto electus’) was altered by Cosimo I. to ‘Rex regum et
Dominus dominantium’. To the left of the entrance is a table:
showing the result of the plebiscite of 1860. From 1504 down to
1873 the famous statue of David by Michael Angelo, which is now
in the Academy (p. 493), stood here. On the right is a group of
Hercules and Cacns by Michael Angela’s rival Baccio Bandimui,
who hoped to excel the great master in this work (p. IV). The two
insigniﬁcant statues by Bandinelli and Rossi on each side of the
entrance were used as chain-posts.

The outer Coca-r was renewed by Michelono in the Renaissance stylo
in 1454. The elaborate decorations o! the columns, the grotesques on the
ceiling, and the faded views of Austrian towns were added by Marco is
lama in 1565, in honour of the marriage of-Francesco (afterwards Grand-
Duke) to Johanna of Austria. In the centre. above a large basin of porphyry
(1556), is a 'Boy with a ﬁsh as a fountain-ﬁgure, by Andr. Verrocdlio,
originally made for a villa of Lorenzo de‘ Medici. At the back are Samson
and a Philistine (a caricature of Michael Angelo) by Kasai. The armorisl
bearings above the colonnade include those of Florence (lily). the Peopls
(cross), the Parte Gnelfa (ea le), and the Medici (balls), and the combined
colours (red and white) of F orence and Fiesole.

Interior (guide, unnecessary, 2 fr.). Entering by the door on thelelt,
we ascend the stairs to the Filter Floor. and enter (door on the right) the
Guns-r HALL (Sula des‘ Ginqueeenla; always open), constructed by (ls-mu
in 1495 for the Great Council, created on the expulsion of the Medici. l:
was occupied as punters for the Spanish troops in 1512, and reconstructed
by Vasari in 156 et seq. In 1569 Cosimo I. here assumed the dignity ol
grand-duke, and in 1860-69 the hall was used for the sittings of the Italian
Parliament. In 1603 Leonardo da Vlad and Michael Angelo were can-
missioned to decorate the hall with frescoes from Florentine history-
Leonardo executed a cartoon of the Battle of Anghiari (defeat at the
Milanese in 1440), and Michael Angelo designed his ‘Bathing Soldim‘
(Florentines surprised by the Pisans before the battle of Oascina, in 13%
Both cartoons have perished (Michael Angela‘s torn up by Baccio Bandinslli
in 1M2), as well as the small portion from De. Vinei‘s transferred in fresco
to the walls (Battle for the Standard). The hall is now adorned with
frescoes (on the walls and cassetted ceiling) by Vasari and his pupil~
representing scenes from the wars against Pisa and Siena, with tapestry,
and with six groups of the labours of Hercules by Rout. By the end-
wall (8.) is a colossal marble Statue ofSaoonarola, by Paggi, 1881. Opposite
are portrait-statues of the Medici by Bacct'o Bandinelh'. — The adjoining
Qusnrrsna or. Leona Dscmo, now partly occupied by the Ufﬁzio del Sindaec.
is seldom accessible. The Sula dt' Leone X. is adorned with scenes from the
life of that pope; in the Salotto dt‘ Clemente Bettimo is a view of besieged
Florence; the Camera dz' Giovanni delle Bande Nerd contains ortraits of
that Medicean, of his mother Caterina Sforz of his wife Marla Balviati.
and of Cosimo 1., as a boy; in the Camera :15 Cos mo Prime, that prince appears
surrounded by artists; there is a similar picture in the Camera di‘ Lorenzo
l'l Haguiﬁco. The ﬁgures are all by Vasarl'; the grotesque designsby Poorem'.

Returning from the Great Hall to the stairway and traversing a corridor
which passes a. ﬁne marble doorway (15th cent.), we enter the Sana on
Ducsnro (custodian in the l‘fﬂzio del Sindaco, fee 50 0.), now the meeting
place of the Consiglio ltlunicipale. The line coﬁ'ered ceiling, from the
designs of Michelozzo ('1’), dates from 1471:; the tapestry, after Brood“ Ind
other masters, represents the story of Joseph. ——We next ascend to the
Sacono Fnook, containing the DABTIEBE I)! Ennonou or Toubo (adm.
see p. £38). Weill-st enter the an na‘ Gram or our) Onowolo, with its
ﬁne ”mired “ﬂing and its imposing frescoes by Domenico (Mir-lauds)".

