236 Route 3.9. MANTUA. From ana

Hantua is mentioned as the home of Viryu, who was born at the
ancient Aadu (3 M. to the S.E., near the village of Pietole), but it was not
a place of importance till the middle ages. In 1276 the citizens elected
Pinamnte Bmcolu, and in 1328 Luigi Omega, as ‘Capitano del Popolo‘,
and to the dynasty of the latter the town owed its prosperity. The
Gonzagas fought successfully against Milan and Venice, and extended their
territory, while theyA were liberal patrons of art and science. Giovanni
Francesco II. (1407 ), the ﬁrst marquis, invited the learned Yittorino
do Feltrs to Mantua, and through him made his court a renowned centre
of culture and education. He was succeeded by Ludovico III. (HM-78).
The beautiful and accomplished Isabella d‘Ests (1474-1539) , sister of
Alphonso, Duke of Ferrara, and mother of Eleonora of Urbino, was
the wife of Giovanni Francesco 111. (1084-1519). She carried on a lively
correspondence with the most eminent men of her time, and with judicious
taste collected valuable books, pictures, and anti uities. In 15301sden‘ao 11.
(1519-40) was raised to the rank of duke by C arles V., and in 1536 he
was invested with the marquisate of Honteferrato; amonument of his reign
is the Palazzo del Te (p. 240). in 1627, when Charles de Nevers, a member
of a French collateral line. ascended the throne, the liantuan war of
succession broke out, and Emperor Ferdinand II. declared the def forfeited.
On 18th July, 1630, Hantua was stormed and sacked by the Austrians.
Although the em eror, hard pressed by the Swedes, was obliged to con-
clude peace in 1 1, the town never recovered from this blow. Carlo 17.,
the last duke, taking the French side in the Spanish war of succession,
was declared an outlaw in 1703-, Monteferrato was awarded to Piedmont,
and Mantua to Austria, of whose supremacy in Ital it became the chief
support. After a long and obstinate defence by neral Wurmser the
fortress capitulated to the French on 2nd February, 1797. By the Peace of
Villafranca the Austrians retained Hantua although deprived of the rest of
Lombardy, but they were compelled to cede it to Italy in 1866.

In the history of Axcnnnc'wnn Mantua is of importance on account

of the buildings of Leon Banish: Alba“ (p. “3) of Florence, who had
been summoned to Hantua by Lodovico lII. — Mantua also witnessed
the labours of several great Renaissance Puss-ans. Andrea 1!
(p. 2&9) entered the service of Lodovico Gonzaga in 1463. In vigour of
conception and in the fidelity of his characters he rivals his best con-
temporaries, while he surpasses them in accuracy of perspective and in
his reﬂned taste for beauty of landscape. He died at liantua in 1606, and
was succeeded as court—painter in the following year by Lorenzo Coda
(comp. pp. 366, 365). When Raphael‘s pupils were dispersed after his
death. Giulio Romano (1492-1546), the greatest of them, settled at Hantus
in 1524, and there attained so high a reputation as an architect and
painter, that Mantua has been called the ‘town of Giulio Romano". After
the example of Raphael‘s work in the Farnesina, he composed mythological
decorative paintings, which, though far inferior to their prototype, attract
by the richness of the motives and sensuous magniﬁcence of composition,
and are important owing to the influence they exercised on later art.
Francesco Pt'imaticcio and Niccolo dell' Abbats, pupils of Giulio Romano
who were educated here, were afterwards summoned to Fontainebleau,
and thus formed a link between the French and the Italian Renaissance.
Giulio Romano‘s works must also have inﬂuenced the style of Room, who
was court-painter at Mantua in 16C08, under Vincenzo II.

From the railway-station we follow the quiet Corso Vittorio
Emanuele (Pl. A, B, 3), and, crossing the rapid Rio, which unites
the Lego Superiore and Lago Inferiore, enter the 00330 Unseen-r0
Panto (Pl. B, 0, 3; formerly Via Sogliari), to the arcades of which
the trafﬁc of the town is chieﬂy conﬁned. — A little farther on, in
the small Piazza Andrea Mantegna, rises —

‘Bant’ Andrea (Pl. 0, 3), a building of imposing proportions,
and the most important church in Msntua. It was begun in 1472-94

