delta Signoria. FLORENCE. . 58. Route. 447

representing St. Zenobius end heroes of Roman history, in a ﬁne urchi-
teoturel frame-work. The banners of Italian cities grou ed around ebust
of Dante, were placed here at the Dante festival in i (comp. . 477).
— A very handsome door, adorned with inter-sin work (portraits 0 Dente
and Petrerch) by Giuliano do Ila/arm and enclosed in a. ﬁne mnrble frame-
work by Benedetto da Majano, now leads into the SALA D‘Umnnu, which
has n coii'ered ceiling by Marco dd Tenn and frescoes by Bahia“ (story
of Cnmillus). Then the Census 01‘ P310121 or 8m Banusuno, with n
ceiling painted in imitation of mosaic by Rid. Ghr’rtandajo, and a cruciﬁx
over the sitar attributed to Gioo. da Bologna. The next room contains
some unimportant pieces of sculpture. and the next e Holy Family by
Sandro Botticelli (early work) and other paintings. — We traverse a number
of a artments, with unimportant sintings by Your“ (Apotheosis of the
Med ei) and grotesque designs by occettt’, and return through the Gun:-
“38“} with 52 large maps drawn by lgnan'o Dan“ (on. 1563), to the Sala
de' igl .

At the N. comer of the ediﬂce is a lion in bronze, the heraldic
emblem of the town, a modern copy of the original by Donatello,
known as It Manocco, and now preserved in the Museo Nazionaie
(p. 473). To the left is the Great Fountain, with Neptune (‘il
Biancone’) and Tritons by Bartolomeo Ammanati and four sea-god-
desses of the School of 05017. da Bologna, finished in 1575. In
’ront of it a Bronze Stab (1901) marks the site of the stake at
which Savonarola and two other Dominican monks were burned on
day 23rd, 1498.

A little to the left is the ‘Equeatrian Statue of Grand-Duke
Tosimo 1., in bronze, by Giovanni da Bologna (i594). — Opposite
he statue is the Palauo Uguccioni, an ediﬁce in the florid Renais—
ance style by Marietta di Zanobt‘ Folﬂ (ca. 1550), with a. rustica
)wer story and coupled pilasters between the windows.

0n the W. side of the piazza rises the Palazzo Fenzi, built by
andi (1871) in the early-Florentine style, which has been adopted
I many of the newer ediﬁces. In the S. angle of the piazza,
I front of the Palazzo degli Ufﬂzi (p. 456), rises the —

‘Loggia. dei Lanai (Pl. E, 5), originally called Loggia dei Sig-
nri, a magniﬁcent open vaulted hall of the kind with which it was
soul to provide both the public and private palaces of Tuscany,
:signed in the present case for solemn ceremonies which it might
3 desirable to perform before the people. This structure was pro-
cted in 1356, having perhaps been designed by Orcagna, but was
It erected till 1376. Benci di Cione and Simone di Francesco
Ilcnti are said to have been the architects. Both the style of the
chitecture and the sculptures (Faith, Hope, Charity, Temperance,
ld Fortitude), by 0501). d’Ambrogio and Jacopo di Piero (1383—87),
;hibit an incipient leaning to Renaissance forms. The present
.me of the loggia dates from the time of the Grand—Duke Cosimo I.,
hen his German spearmen or ‘lancers’ were posted here as guards.

By the Srzrs are two lions; thut on the right is antique, the other

Flamlnio Vaeca (1600). — Under the arches, to the right, is the 'Rape of
e Sabines, a bold and skilful group in marble executed by Giovanni
Bologna in 1583, with s lifelike relief on the base; on the left, ”Perseus
th the head of the Medusa, in bronze, the masterpiece of Berwmuta

