of Florence. VILLA DI PETRAIA. 59. Route. 525

with its thick sprinkling of villas. — Electric Tramway, see No. 2,

p. 434; also Omnibus to the Ports a1 Prato (Pl. B,‘ C, 4), see p. 434.

On the same road lies Peggio a Oa’ano (steam-tramway from Piazza
della Stasione. see p. 434; a pleasant rive of 11/: hr. permessi for the
villa at the ‘Amministrasione‘ of the Palasao Pitti, p. 4&7). The hattoria
Tramway ati'ords good country-fare. At the end of the village (i5) ft.)
stands the Villa, built about use for Lorenzo il lagniﬂco by (Haldane
da Bangallo in a simple rustic stgle, and still entirely without modern
additions. It is surrounded by a ne old park and commands a beautiful
View of the Tuscan mountains. It is now a royal possession. The chief
room of the 2nd story is adorned with frescoes by Andrea dd Sarto (1521;
Oscar receiving the tribute of Egypt), Pranctabigto (Triumph of Cicero),
and Alan. Allori (Flamininus in Greece, and Scipio in the house of Syphax,
1580); the subjects are supposed to typify events in the history of the
Medici as narrated by Paolo Giovio. — The loggia has a line stucco-ceiling.

The electric railway to Besto (No.3; p. ‘34) proceeds ﬁrst to Pants
a Rifredl’ (railway-station, see p. 430), with the ancient church of Santa
Stefano in Pane. To the N.E., about 2 M. from Rifredi, at the foot of
the hills, lies the Villa ledicea in Oaroxgi. the property of the grand-
dukes down to 1780 (closed at present). The villa, which contains some
frescoes by 0. 1". Watts. was erected by Niel-stone ('l) for the ﬁrst Cosimo
who terminated his brilliant career in MBA at this house which still
practically retains its original form. This was also once a favourite seat
of the Platonic Academy ( MB), which met in the noble loggia. L0renzo
il Magniﬂco grandson of osimo, also died at Careggi (1492), after Savona-
rola had re used him absolution because he would not restore her liberty
to Florence. Fine view of the environs, especially from the projecting
passage below the roof.

About halfway between the Villa ledices and Castello (see below),
is the Heals Iuitm delta Quinta, a girls‘ school, with admirable sculptures
by the Della Robbin (including a terracotta replica of Verrocebio‘s Doubting
Thomas). and paintings by Botticellit?) and Ghirlandajo. -- A few yards
farther on is the Villa Qua-to, with beautiful gardens, erected for Duke
Cosimo I. by Tribolo, now in the possession of Countess Stroganoff.

To the N.W of leredi and 1/; I. to the N. of the railway-station of
Costello (also stopped at by the Sesto Tramway if previous notice be
given to the conductor) is the Villa Beale di retrain. owned by the
Brunelleschi in the 14th cent. but remodelled b Buonlalentt in the
Renaissance style in 11575 for the Card. Ferdinando e' lediei. It is now
fitted up as a royal residence (permeseo at the Pal. Pitti), and is provided
with a curious modern adaptation of a Roman ‘atrium‘. The interior is
adorned with frescoes by Venn-ram (1686) and contains an unimportant
altar- iece by Andrea del Sarto. The delightful gardens contain a line
oak, years old, with a platform among its branches which used to be
a favourite resort of Victor Emmanuel II. — Immediately to the W. lies
the Villa Beale di Outello, with an uninteresting chateau and a beautiful
park (permesso obtained at the same time as that for the Villa Petraia,
whence the visitor is conducted to the Villa Castello; fee 1 fr.). Each
villa possesses a line fountain by Trtbolo, with statues by (lion. da Botoyms.

In Doceta about 11/4 I. to the NE. of the rail. stat. of Saw (p. 430),
is t_he great hanifattura Ginori, founded b the Martha: Carlo Maori in
173) for the making of majolica (Meissen i 10, Vienna 1720, Sevres 1738),
and now belonging to the ﬂoats“ Ceramica Richard-Gimi. Since the closing
of the Naples pottery in 1806 this factory has produced porcelain in the
Capodimonte style, and in 1347 it has successfully revived the ancient
majolicn manufacture in the style of Faenza, Gubbio, and Urbino. It
also produces excellent copies of Della Robbia work. The show-rooms
and collections of the ﬁrm are worth seeing (open in winter 9.3012 and
2.30-4.51, in summer 8—11 and 2.30-5.30); permessi in the depot of the factory,
in Florence (g. ) The work-rooms are not shown. — By taking the
tramway to csto, we pass the villa of Hat-chose Com, the celebrated

