ofthe Adige. . various. 37. Route. 225

elque eampanile, and the imposing “tombs of the Boaligers (Arche
dcgli Scalig'e'rf ,- Pl. F, 3), the stern Gothic forms of which immor-
tslise the masculine genius of the dynasty. The ladder, their crest,

often recurs on the elaborate railings.

Over the church-door are the sarcophagus and equestrian statue of Con
Grands Mme della Scale (d. 1329); adjoining it, the wall~monument of
Giovanni dellu Scala (d. 1350) and the sarcophagus of Martino I. (d. 12”).
liext to the Piazza Signori is the monument of Muslim) 11. (d. 1351), another
sarcophagus with canopy and equestrian statue. The similar monument
at the opposite corner of the street, executed by Bonino da Comptonc for
Can monon'o (d. 1375) during his life-time, is embellished with statues of
Christian heroes and virtues. The sarcophagi between these, bearing the
same crest, have no names. (The custodian lives in a house to the right
of the church; fee 25 c. each person.)

A little to the S.E., amid the grounds of the Piazza dell’ Indipen-
dsnza (Pl.F,3),' rises an Equestrian Statue of Garibaldi, in bronze,
by Bordoni (1887).

We now proceed to the N. to the Gonzo Sanr’ Anne-run, at
z the E. end of which rises ‘Bant' Anastasia (Pl. F, 2), a ﬁne Gothic
Dominican church begun about1261, with unﬁnished brick facade,
4 I portal in marble, with reliefs of the life of Peter Martyr, and a

, fresco of the 14th cent. in the lunette.

The ll'rnlon, borne b 12 columns, is remarkable for boldness and
symmetra of progortion, an for the late-Gothic decoration of the vaulting
H37). in the rst column to the left is an ancient capital, used as a
Holy Water Basin, supported by a hump-backed dwarf ( Gobbo) attributed
to Gabriele Caltan‘, father of Paolo Veronese. By the ﬁrst altar to the right
is the monument of Fregoso, the Venetian general, by Damn Cattanca
(1566). Above the 3rd altar are an Entombrnent and other frescoes by
Morale. The frame-work of the 4th altar is an imitation of the ancient
Area de‘ Gavi in the Castel Vecchio. removed in 1805; altar-piece, St.
Martin by Carole. The next small chapel contains excellent earl -Renais-
sauce ornamentation; a painted group of the Entombment, of the 1 th cent.;
a wooden cruciﬁx of the 15th cent"; and a due iron lamp. —- In the right

. trtusept, St. Paul by Gaoanola, and Madonna with saints by Girolamo dot
' ', in an elegant frame. -— In the second chapel of the choir, on the
right, are ancient Veronese ‘Frescoes of the 14th cent. (probably by Alli-
ch'), Knights of the Cavalli family kneeling before the Virgin. The
adjoining Capp. Pellegrini (on the left) contains terracotta reliefs frOm
the life of Christ, probably by a Florentine master (ca. 1430—40). —- In
the choir, to the left, is the painted monument of General Sal-ego (d.
“32), by Rom, an assistant of Donatello (p. “3), with an equestrian
Itatne of the deceased in the middle and squires withdrawing a curtain
It the aide. Behind the high-altar are some fine early-Renaissance stalls
with lntarsia work. — In the adjoining Cappella Lavag-noli (right) are
frescoes, by Bmgls‘o, of the Miraculous Draught of Fishes the Cruci-
fixion, and Christ preaching by the Lake of Galilee (Lago dl éarda in the
background). - The left transept contains frescoes of the 14th cent., and
a picture by Liberals, Mary Magdalen in clouds. —— Above the 4th altar
(from the entrance) in the left aisle, Descent of the Holy Ghost by Giolﬂno
(i118); above is the same subject ‘al fresco‘ by Michele do Verona. At each
side are four statues of saints. Over the 2nd altar, Christ with SS. Eras-
mus and George, b Gtolﬂno. Over the 1st altar, painted sculptures by
Mela da Verona (u out 1500). — In the sacristy is a fresco of S . George,
by Vino" Pam, in which the chief ﬁgure has been defaced by damp.

In front of the church is a marble Statue of Paolo Veroncsc, by
Torquato della Torre and R. Cristiani, erected in 1888.
nsznrnn. Italy I. 12th Edit. 15-

