406 Route 56. PISA. Cathedral.

ment and great dramatic force. Arno! a di Gambia (1232-1301), pupil of
Niccolo Pisano, and Andrea Pisano (1 73-1348), pupil of Giovanni, form‘
links between the art of Pisa and that of Florence. Pisa also boasted of
possessing anmsas at an early period. The name of Giunta Pisana (ﬁrst
half of the ~18th cent.), for example, was known far beyond the limits of
rthe town, but his works are uninteresting, except to the student of art.
The fact that Cimabue was invited from Florence to embellish the spec of
the cathedral, indicates the decline of native art, the development of
which appears to have ceased entirely in the 14th century. The execution
of the frescoes in the Campo Santa was committed partly to foreign artists,
not indeed to Giotto himself, as Vesari asserts, but to his pupils and to
a. Tuscan masters. Buﬁ'almacco, the jester among the Italian painters,
who is not a merely mythical personage, as has been sup used, is said
to have assisted in executing the frescoes in the Campo auto. but to
what extent is unknown. In the 15th cent. Benouo Gauoli (1420-97) of
Florence, a pupil of Fra Angelica, spent 16 years at Pisa. where the
Campo Santo is graced by one of his most important works (p. 409).
The busiest part of the town and chief resort of visitors is the
Lungarno, a series of broad and handsome quays, and particularly
the sheltered Lungamo Regio (Pl. 0, D, 4), on the N. side of the
river. Churches and buildings in the Lungamo, see pp. 413, 414.
— The river is crossed by four bridges. That in the centre is the
old Ponte di Mezzo (Pl. D, E, 4); above it is the Panic alla Fortes“
(Pl. F, 5); below it is the Panic Solfen‘no (Pl. B, C, 5), completed
in 1875, while outside the town is the Pants di Ferro (PL A, B, 6).

The chief boast of Pisa is the "Piazza DBL Duouo (Pl. B, 1],
to which every visitor ﬁrst directs his steps. The Cathedral, the
Leaning Tower, the Baptistcry, and the Campo Santa form a group of
buildings without parallel, especially as it lies beyond the precincts
of the town and therefore removed from its disturbing inﬂuences.

The “Cathedral, erected after the great naval victory of the Fir
ans near Palermo (1063) by Busketus and Rainaldus in the Tuscan-
Romanesque style, and consecrated by Pope Gelasius II. in 1118,
was restored in 1597-1604 after a ﬁre in 1595 which seriously dam-
aged the nave. It is a basilica with nave and double aisles, and transepi
ﬂanked with aisles, 104 yds. in length, and 351/2 yds. in breadth in the
interior, and covered with an elliptical dome over the crossing. This
remarkably perfect ediﬁce is constructed entirely of white marble,
ornamented with black and coloured bands. The most magniﬁcent
part is the ‘Facade, which in the lower story is adorned with columns
and arches attached to the wall, and in the upper parts with four
open galleries, gradually diminishing in length. It was imitated at
Luccs, Pistoja, and other neighbouring cities. The ancient Bronx:
Gates, destroyed in the ﬁre of 1595, were replaced in 1606 by the
present doors, with representations of Scriptural subjects, executed
by Giov. Caccim', Pietro Francacilla, Pietro Tacca, and others. The
only one of the old doors now existing, by Bonamms of Pisa (1130}
representing ‘24 scenes from Scripture history, is in the Crocicra d!
San Raniﬂ‘i, or S. transept. The choir is also imposing. BY the

principal facade is the sarcophagus of Busketus (see above), with a
curious inscription.

