Brera. MILAN. 19. Route. 123

In the Via del Monte di Pieth, the second side-street on the right,
is the handsome Caua diRisparmio, or savings-bank, by Balzaretti.
— The Via di Brera, forming a prolongation of the Via Giuseppe
Verdi, leads to the —

*Palano di Brera (PI. E, 3; No. 28), built for a Jesuit college
by Riochini in 1651 et seq., since 1776 the seat of the Accmlemia
di Belle Arti, and now styled Palauo di Science, Letters ed Arti.
It contains the Picture Gallery described below, the Library founded
in 1770 (300,000 vols.; adm., see p. 115 , the Beale Gabinetto
Numismatico, or Collection of Coins (50,0 ; adm., see p. 115),
and the Observatory, founded in 1766.

In the centre of the handsome Coun'r is a bronze statue of
Napoleon 1., as a Roman emperor, by Canova, considered one of
his ﬁnest works (1859). By the staircase, to the left, the statue of
the celebrated jurist Cesare Beccarla (1738-94), who was the ﬁrst
scientiﬁc questioner of the wisdom of capital punishment. The
court is also adorned with several other statues.

The staircase ascends to the ﬁrst ﬂoor, on which is the ‘PICTURE
GALLERY or Pinacotioa, founded in 1806. Adm., see p. 115); catalogue
(1901), 11/2 fr. Director, Dr. Corrado Ricci. The collection has
been greatly enlarged and also re-arranged since 1901. In our
description below we follow the new arrangement — The gem of
the collection is Raphael’s Sposaiizio (Room XXIII), the chief
work of his ﬁrst or Umbrian period. The numerous pictures of
the Lombard school, and particularly the frescoes sawn out of
churches, are also very valuable. The authenticity of the Head of
Christ (R. XIV) ascribed to Leon. da Vinci is open to considerable
doubt. The Madonna in a bower of roses (R. XV) is the best of the
oil-paintings by Bernardino Luim', and the best of his frescoes are
the Madonna with SS. Anthony and Barbara (R. 11) and the Burial
of St. Catharine (R. XV). The most interesting works of the early
Italian school are those by Mantegna, in R. VIII. The collection
also affords an instructive survey of the progress of Carlo Crivelli
(R. VIII), a master who ﬂourished in 1468-93 and connects the
Paduan school with that of Venice. The most notable works of the
latter school are The Preaching ofSt. Mark by Gentile Bellini (R. V),
three works by Giovanni Bellini (R. VIII), and three by Oima da
Conegliano (R. V); and of a later period The Finding of Moses by
Bonifasio I. (R. V), the Portrait of Porcia and the St. Jerome by
Titian (R. VI), Tintorelto’s Finding of the body of St. Mark (R. IV),
and the admirable series of portraits by Lorenzo Lotto (R. VII),
rivalled by Giov. Ball. Morom‘ of Bergamo (R. III). Of Correggio the
collection now possesses an admirable early work (R. XVIII). Domeni-
clu'no and Guercino (R. XVII) represent the Italian masters of the
17th century. The most important works of foreign schools are
The Last Supper by Rubens, and the portraits of ladies by Van Dyck
and by Rembrandt (R. XXVIII).

