I

Literature. VENICE. 42. Route. 269

though his oil-paintings are distributed throughout the galleries of Europe.
several of his most striking works, chieﬂy religious compoaitions, are
still reserved at Venice.

ush was the vitality and vigour and so great were the resources oi
the Venetian School, that even masters of secondary rank fre uently pro-
duced works of the highest excellence. There is frequently ut little to
choose between them in their skill in using colour. Foremost among
them are Sebastian del Hmbo (1486-1547), who afterwards yielded to the
fascinating inﬂuence of Michael Angelo. Rocco Harcom', the dreamy Lormo
Lotto (1480-1566), Bonifan’o 1. (‘Bon. dd Nah", or ‘Bon. Vermse‘; comp. p. 223 .,
‘of whose life little is yet known. Giovanni Antonio (do) Pordcnons (i
1539), whose ﬂesh-tints are unsurpassed, and Paris Bordons (1500-71).
whose portraits rival those of Titian. To a younger generation belongs
Jacqm ﬂntorsuo (Robuslt', 1519-94), who s uandered excellent abilities on
superﬁcial works (Vasari calls him ‘il p u terribile cervello, che ebbia
avuto mai la pittnra‘), and in his eagerness {or eil'ect lost the golden tints
of his school. Paolo Cumin", surnamed Vsroncu (1528-88), on the other
hand, though more realistic, maintains the best traditions of his school. Last
among the masters of note were the ﬂassano‘s (p. 258), Palma Giovane, and
Padocam‘no. To the 18th cent. belong 0m. Baa. Tie olo (ca. 1693-1770),
a spirited decorative artist, Antonio Canals (1697-17 , an architectural
painter, and his pupil Bern. ﬂelouo (WM-w), both surnamed Canaleuo, all
much admired by their contemporaries.

Visitors to Venice should be provided with ‘Lit'c on the Lagoons,

' (2nd edit, London, 1894), by Horatio F. Brown, an excellent little book,

which furnishes answers to most of the questions about Venice that sug-
gest themselves to the intelligent visitor. The same author‘s ‘Venice: an
Historical Bketch of the Republic‘ (1893) and ‘Venetian Studies' (1887) are
also recommended. It is, of course, well to be familiar with Ruskin‘s‘ﬂtoncs
of Venice‘, or at least with the ‘lntroductory Chapters and Local lndices,
printed separately for the use of travellers‘ (in 2 octavo vols.; 1881). His
‘St. Mark‘s Rest, the History of Venice written for the help of the few
travellers who still care for her Monuments‘ is issued in the same lorm
as the better-known ‘Morninge in Florence‘. The ‘Venice‘ of Mr. J. 0.
Hars (3rd edit. , 1891) is an interesting and convenient manual; the
‘Venetian Liie‘ of Ir. W. D. Howells is one of the most charming books
of its kind. Bmhard Barmm‘r ‘Venetian Painters of the Renaissance,
with an index to their works‘ (1894), will be found useful by the art-
lover. The Rev. Dr. Alex. Robertson‘s ‘Fra Paolo Sarpi‘ (2nd edit, 1894)
deals with a critical epoch of Venetian history, and his ‘Bible of St. Mark,
the Altar and Throne of Venice‘ deals exhaustively with the history,
mosaics: and sculptures of St. Mark‘s Church. See also the ‘Renaissance
in Italy, by J. A. Bermuda,- ‘Venice’, by the Hon. Aluhea Wm (‘Story of
the Nations Beries’; 189‘); ‘The Makers of Venice‘ by Mrs. Olipliam; and
‘Vﬁnice‘ by Grant Allen Historical Guides series). — Mr. Ruskin advises
the traveller who is {on of paintings to devote his princi al attention ‘to
the works of Tintoret, Paul Veronese, and John Bellin ; not of course
neglecting Titian, yet remembering that Titian can. be well and thoroughly
studied in almost any rest European gallery while Tintoret and Bellini
can be judged of only in Venice, and Paul eronese . . . . is not to he
(aux, estimated until he is seen at play among the fantastic chequers of
the onetian ceilings‘.

Venice, ital. Venezia, the strongly fortiﬁed capital of the province
of its own name, a commercial and naval port, and the seat since
1451) of an archbishop with the title of Patriarch, lies in 45° 7’ N.
latitude, 21/2 M. from the mainland, in the Lagune, a shallow bay
of the Adriatic about 25 M. in length and 9 M. in width. Its 15,000
houses and palaces, chieﬂy built on piles, and about 61/; M. in

