Duomo to the N. Quarters. MILAN. 19. Route. 121

surrounded by Marco d’Oggiono, Cesare da Sesto, Salaino, and Bol-
trsfﬂo, four of his pupils. -— In the piazza, to the N.W., is the
Teatro alla Scala (p. 114). To the S.E. is the large Paloma
Merino (Pl. E, 4), in which the Municipio has been established
since 1861, erected by Gaieazzo Alessi in 1558-60 for Tom. Marini
of Genoa. The main facade, towards the Piazza della Scala, was
completed in 1890 from the designs of Luca Beltrami. The 'Court
and the council-chamber (formerly the ball—room) on the ﬁrst ﬂoor
are interesting.

Behind the Pal. Merino is the Piazza San Fedele, with a mon-
ument to Alessandro Manwni p. 151) and, to the N., the Jesuit
church of SAN FBDBLB (Pl. E,F, ), erected by San Carlo Borromco in
1569 from designs by Pellcprino Tibaldi and containing a sump-
tuous high-altar. The adjoining Palazzo dcl Como ed Archiuio, for—
merly the Jesuit college, contains part of the government archives.
,—- To the N.E. of this point is the Via dcgli Omcnom', with the
palace of the same name (No. 1), erected by Leone Leoni and
adorned with Atlantes. The Via degli Omenoni ends in the Piazza
Belgiojoso, which contains the Patent) Bclgiojoso (No. 2) and
Manxoni’a House (No. 3), with frescoes by Giac. Gampi (1894).

Adjacent, Via Morone 10 (Pl. F, 4), is the "Huseo Poldi-
Poznan, bequeathed to the town by Gav. Poldi-Pezzoli in 1879 and
exhibited in the tastefully-furnished house formerly occupied by
the founder. The collections include valuable pictures, textile
fabrics, arms and armour, and small objects of antiquity (adm.,
see p. 115; no catalogue). Director, Camilla Boito.

Ground Floor. — In the Vns'msunn are Oriental carpets. An adjoining
Boon contains Coptic textiles and paintings, including the portrait of a.
cardinal by Donunichs‘no.

First Floor. In the library (to the left) is an ancient Flemish tapestry
(ilith cent.), representing King Solomon and the Queen of Sheba, and the
following paintings: 'Ribera, Portrait of an ecclesiastie (1656); Fr. Guardi,
Lagoon at Venice; 0. B. Tiepolo, Madonna with saints, Two sketches. —
The Anrrcannna and the San GIALLA, the next two rooms, contain
nothing of importance.

SALA Donn-a (to the right). In the wall-case is orcelain from
Dresden, China, Sévres, and elsewhere. In the cases at t e window; to
the left, antique gold ornaments and silver plate; to the right, goldsmith‘s
work of the 16-18th cent.; in the centre-cases, valuable ecclesiastical
vessels, etc. (some Gothic); in the last case, antigue glass,vases, and bronzes.
Beside the mirror, Persian weapons and line Persian carpet (15th cent).
Among the pictures may be mentioned: Piero delta Francesca (1’), Portrait
of a woman; Botticelli, Madonna. — Sana N31“. Pictures: Signet-em,
St. Barbara; Borgoynane, 8t. Catharine; ‘Martotto Albcrlt‘mm‘ Small
winged altar-piece, with the Madonna and SS. Catharine and harbara

within and the Annunciation without (1500). — Stanza DA Leno.
Pictures: Fra Vittore Ghislandi (p. 196), Three portraits; Bertim‘, Portrait
of Cav, Poldi-Pezzoli. Venetian gloss. —- Conner; Roon. Romanesque

crosses and reliquaries. — SALA nnou Srnccm. Giralamo Romanian, Madonna
entbroned with saints and angels, in an attractive landscape; Palma Vocchio,
Portrait.

SALA mar. Csnmnn‘o. Michele da Verona, Samson and Delilah (sig-
nature ‘Victor Carpatius‘ forged); Cavazzola, St. Anthony of Padua; ‘And.
Ven'occhio, Madonna with angels (school-piece);vAnl. Vicar-int, Madonna

