11mm. RAVENNA. 53. Route. 385 ,

I Steam Tramway- (starting from the Piazza Anita Garibaldi; P]. E, t).
i. To Claus (p. 394), B-L times dail in 24 min. (fares to and 25 c.). 2. To
for“ gee Baeddsr‘s Central Italy), times daily in 1% hr. (fares 2 fr. 15.
fr. 6.).
otographa. Rte-d, Via Farini it. — Post Ofﬁce, Piazza Alighieri

Principal Attractions (Lil/2 day): ‘Baptistery of the Orthodox (p. 887),
Cathedral (p. 887), Museum (p. 388), San Vitale (p. 390), °Mausoleum of
Galla Placidia (p. 891), ‘Sant‘ Apollinare Nuovo (p. 392), Mausoleum of
Theodoric (p. 393), ‘Sant‘ Apollinare in Classe (p. 394). The churches are
closed from 12 to 2 p. m. Visitors with little time should hire a cab.

Raomna (13 it), formerly the capital of a province, now largely
deserted, with 63,364 inhab., is situated in the plain between the
rivers Lamone and Roma (the Roman Bedais), in a somewhat un-
healthy district. It was originally a town on the Lagune and a sea-
port, like Venice, but is now 6 M. distant from the sea and is con-
nected with Porto Corsini, its foreport (founded in 1736), by the
Canals Corsini only, a narrow channel, beginning at the small new

harbour Opposite the station (Dars‘e’na; Pl. G, 3, 4).

Ravenna, one of the most ancient towns in Italy, probably owes its
earliest importance to the invasion of Italy by the Celts, when the Um-
brians and Etruscans ﬂeeing from the mainland to the Lagune, settled
here. It was an early ally of the Romans, but as a punishment for
espousing the cause of Marius it was incorporated with Gallia Cisalpina,
and sank to the level of a provincial town. Augustus was the ﬁrst to
recognize the advantageous situatiOn of Bavenna. He enlarged the Portal
(Ham’s till it could accommodate 250 sail. and appointed it the head~
quarters of the Adriatic ﬂeet; an arsenal and large ship-building yards
were established in the new town of Class“, which rapidly extended,
while the industrial suburb of Gamma sprang up on the Via Caesarea,
the road uniting the two towns. When the lagoon began to be tilled up
by the deposits of the rivers. Ravenna and Classis were both surrounded
by walls. The situation of Bavenna was. however, still regarded as so
impregnable that in 402, amid the dangers of the barbarian invasion, the
Eu”). Honorius transferred his residence thither from Rome. In the reign
of his sister Gallo Placidta (d. 4593. widow of the Visigothlc king Athaulf
(d. ‘15) and Constantine 111. (d. A i), and mother of Valentinisn 111., the
brilliant imperial city was erected into an archiepiscopal see. According
to the legend, Christianity had been introduced in u A.D., by St. Apolli-
nan‘s, a disciple of St. Peter. After the fall of the Western Empire the
town was taken by the Herulian Odoaur, King of Italy, and again in
493 by Theodora the Great (d. 5%), King of the Ostrogoths, after which
it regained much of its former splendour and was the residence of the
Gothic kings till 539. It then became the seat of the exarch or governor
of the Eastern Roman or Greek Emperors, but in spite of the numerous
privileges lavished on its church by Justinian and his successors, it fell
rapidly into decay. The Lombards razed the town of Classis to the ground,
and in 751 their duke Adstulph banished Eutychius, the last exarch, and
took possession of Ravenna. Shortly afterwards, however, it was retaken
by Pepin, King of the Franks, and handed over to the pope, along with
the whole of the former exarchate (755). The papal rule was at ﬁrst
entirely nominal, for the archbishups, who assumed the title of exarcbs,
also succeeded in making themselves masters of a great part of the
Romagna. At a later period Ravenna was usually to he found on the side
of the German emperors. In 1297 the Ghibelline Polenta family, of whom
favourable mention is made by Dante, obtained the supreme power, and
in 1318 they added also the title of duke. In 1441 Eavenna came into
possession of the Venetians under whom its prosperity materially increased;
in 1509 it was conquered by Pope Julius 11.; and in 1512, after the battle
of Ravens. (p. 395), it was plundered by the victorious French army and

Bunm. Italy 1. 12th Edit. 26 -

