to thimiglia. SAN REMO. 17. Route. 91

Physicians. English, Dr. human, Villa delle Palme; Dr. Foster, Ville
Lsmberti; Dr. Bloch-Smith, Ville Victoria; Dr. Hort, Ville Primsvers;
Dr. Wilton-Miller, Vie Vitt. Emanuele 18; Dr. Lillie, I] Bel Soggiorno,
Berigo. German,'Dn. Secchi, Rieth, Pahl, Baur, De Peale, Waller, Kuckein,
and Gris-fun,- Italian, Dre. Batons, Mas-(moi, Ameglio, and Amaidi. —
Dentists: Whiting, Vie Vitt. Emanuele 19; Martini, Via Francia; Powers,
Vie Asquesciati 1- Armldi, Vin Private. — Chemists. Squire, Via Vit-
torio Emanuele 1"; Pcinemann d: Wiedcmann, Via Vitt. Emanuele 10 (Pl.
Ap.,- 03), undertake chemical end microscopical analyses; Jordan, Via
Vitt. Emanuele 28. -— German Hospital, in the Villa. Maddalena, Vin Peirc-
gsllo (Pl. 1) K,- F, 1). — Both- in the Via Private and in the Stabilimento
dei Bagm' di Mars (Pl. E, 2), Passeggiata. lmperatore Federico.

British Vice-Consul, Haney Turk)», Esq. — ms. Consular Agent, Signor
Alberto Amcatio, Ville Brecco.

Inglis]: Churches. 5!. John the Baptism, Vin Rome. — All Saints‘,
Corso dell‘ Imperetrice; chnplein, Rev. 0. Daniel. — Scottish and American
Church (Presbyterian Service), Corso dell‘ Imperatrice 4.

Golf Links (9 holes) at Anna di Taggia, near Taggia (see pp. 89, 90).

Climate. San Remo is sheltered by an unbroken semicircular hill
rising from the Capo Nero to the Piano Carpal-o (3000 IL), culminating
in the Monte Caggio (3575 ft.) and Monte Bianca: (4280 ft.), sud descend-
ing thence to the Cape Verde, its summit being nowhere more then A M.
distsnt in e strsi ht line. The N. winds are therefore entirely excluded
from this favours spot, especielly as a double range oi Alps rises behind
the town I little further back, while the force of the E. and W. winds
ismuch broken. Violent E. winds, however, frequently occur at the end
of February and the beginning of Much, and the ‘Mistral‘ is elso an un-
welcome visitor at this season. — To consumptive and bronchial pstients
the E. bay is recommended on account of its sheltered situetion and humid
ltnosphere while suﬂ'erers from nervous end liver complaints will ﬁnd
the dry end stimullting Iir of the W. buy more beneﬁcinl. —- The mean
temperature of the three winter months is 51" Fahr.

San Roma, a. town of 20,027 lnhab., lies in the middle of a.
beautiful bay, 51/; M. long, embosomed in olive-groves that cover
the vslleys and lower slopes and give place higher up to pines and
other coniferaa. It has been 3 health-resort since 1861.

The crowded houses of the old town occupy a steep hill be-
tween the short valleys of the Torrents dcl Genomic and the Tar-
rmte di San Romolo. A smaller quarter named Casttgliuoli lies to
the W. of the letter stream. These older parts of the town consist
of: curious labyrinth of narrow lenes, ﬂights of steps, archwsys,
lofty and sombre houses, and mouldering walls. The arches which
connect the houses high above the streets are intended to give them
Stability in case of earthquakes. Vines are frequently seen clam-
lMing up the houses and putting forth their tendrils and leaves
an the topmost stories.

The new town, occupying the alluvial land at the foot of the
hill, contains ell the public buildings. The long Via Vittorio Ema-
"ucle (Pl. 0, D, 3), with its numerous shops, is the chief centre of
trafﬁc. To the S.E. is the fort of Santa chla (Pl. D, 3, 4; now a.
Prison), constructed by the Genoese to defend the smell harbour,
'hlch is sheltered by a sickle-shaped Bmkwsnn 1300 ft. in
length. A survey from the parapet of this Molo will convey en idea
Of the sheltered position of Ben Berna.

