to the Piazza d'Aseglio. FLORENCE. .58. Route. 481

of the Buonerroti bequeathed to the city in 1858. This Gannnma
Buoxsnnorr contains two early paintings (ca. 1492) and designs
by Michael Angelo, besides other works (adm, see p. 437). Catalogue
(1886), 50 0.

Room I. 18. Inllatar of Giorgio”, Conversetlorppiece‘ '12. Battle of
the Lepithn and Centenn, in relief an early work by lichacl Angelo,
whose delight in bold movements, deﬁant attitudes, and the re resentetion
of vehement pession is elreedy apparent. Opposite, 1, 2. ortreita of
Iicheel Angelo, by Glul. Baylor-dint and by Israel“ Venus“, npil of
Iicheel Angelo; 6. Psulla, Predelle representing the Legend of St. icholas
of Bari. — To the left is —

Roox II, with ‘Drawings by Hichael Angelo. In the lower frames on
the walls end in the middle, Architectural sketches. The best drawings
in the upper frames are: by the entrmce, 1. Head looking down. in red
chalk; in frame 9, First design for the fagede of San Lorenzo g). ‘98); 12,

13. Studies for the Lest Judgment in the Sistine Che el; ‘ Madonna
with tlIIe Inflnt Christ (partly executed in colours). — e return through
Room to —

Room Ill. By the window-well: 20. Stetue of Micheal Angelo in a
sitting posture, executed by Ant. Noullt', in 1620; on the wells scenes from
the greet theater‘s life, end on the ceiling similar scenes and elle ories
by Jae. da Empoli, (Hal. AIIoH, Franc. Farm. end other artists (1620).
Exit-well: Madonna and saints, of which Hichael Angelo is said to have
drawn the design.

Boost IV. Family pictures.

Boon V (chapel). To the left, °72. Madonna on the Steps, shesorelief
in marble, another eerly work of Michael Angelo.

‘In the Madonna on the Steps the treces of his apprenticeship are still
very evident. The digniﬁed ﬁgure of the Madonna, who is nursing the
Child, the flowing drapery, end the corporeal forms recall the powerful
women of Domenico G irlandaao; while the technical execution, with the
outlines fading into the background and the gentle raising of the inner
planes, suggests the inﬂuence of Donetello.‘ —- er.

Opposite, 79. Daniels da Vollerra (not Olav. da Bologna), Bronze bust
of Michael Angelo.

Roots VI. Archives of use. of Michael Angela and clay models and
autographs of the master (to the left 1, and to the right 10, 'Models of the
David, p. ‘93). — In Room VII is some majolica.

Above the door of No. 93, Via dell’ Agnolo, the next street
parallel to the Via Ghibellina, is a Madonna by Luca dclla Robbia
(an early work).

From this point the Via de’ Mscci leads to the NE. to the
piazza and the church of Bent’ Ambrogio (Pl. H, 6). Simple
inscriptions on the pavement of the church indicate the graves of
Oronaca (right), Andr. Verrocchio, and Mine ds Fiesolc (left). In
the Cappella del Miracolo, to the left in the choir, are a Tabernacle
by Mina da Fiesole (1481) and a. large fresco of the Procession of
Corpus Christi, the chief work of Cos. Rosselli (1486; satisfactory
light only in the morning).

The Via Sant’ Ambrogio, on the left side of which is a handsome
new Synagogue (Temple Israelitico ,- Pl. H, 5), leads to the Piazza
d'Auglio (Pl. H, I, 6; omn., see p. 434), with its gardens. —— Church
of Santa Maria Maddalena de’Passi and Archaeological Museum,
see pp. 488-484.

Bannnxsn. Italy I. 12th Edit. 31.

