to thimiglia. BORDIGHERA. 17. Route. 95

Via Aurelia), which ends on the W.- at the Borghetto brook. This
ﬁne street aﬂ'ords charming views of the palm—gardens of the Hétel
Angst and the Villa Etelinda (built by Garnier). On its S. side, below
the Hotel de Londres, is the New Museum, or International Free
Library, founded by Mr. Bicknell and containing a reading-room,
aconcert-hall, a small library, a unique collection of the ﬂora of
the Riviera, a collection of minerals, and an archaeological collection
(including fragments and casts of the rock-inscriptions mentioned
it p. 46). —— A magniﬁcent ‘View is obtained from the Spianata
del Capo, on the top of the promontory, at the E. end of the road:
to the left, the bay of Ospedaletti; to the right, Ventirniglia, Mentone,
Cap Martin, Monaco, the Monte Esterel, and the snow-ﬂeckedAlpes
Maritimes.

Bordighera is famous for its ﬂoriculture (roses, carnations, ane-

mones, etc.), which partly supplants olive-growing, and for its
date-palms (Phoenix dactylifera), of which, however, the fruit seldom
ripens sufﬁciently to be edible. Like Iles d’Hyere and Elche (see
Baedeker’a Spain) Bordighera does a large business in supplying
palm-branches to Roman Catholic churches for Palm Sunday and
to Jewish communities for the Feast of Tabernacles. For the former
purpose the leaves are bleached on the trees by being tightly bound
up. — The ﬁnest palms are seen in the above-named gardens, in
that of the Villa Gamier (to the E. of the town), at Herr Winter’s
Vallone Garden, 3/. M. to the 13., near the Sasso bridge, and in the
‘Madonna Garden at Ruota, 3/; M. beyond the bridge, belonging
to the same owner and containing the celebrated Scheffel Palms
(Open at all hours).

From the Vallone Garden we may ascend the Valley of the Sam
{in dry weather) to the (2% M.) Aqueduct and return thence to
(1 M.) Bordighera along the conduit. — Another pleasant walk is
aﬂorded by the Strada dei Colli, to the N. of the old town. At
the end of the road, immediately beyond the Villa Biancheri, a
footpath leads to the left to the Torre dei Mostwceint, a good view-
point (key kept by Awocato Cabagni. Via Vittorio Emanuele).

Excursions: from Old Bordighera by foot and bridle paths through
beautiful olive-groves to ('/4 hr.) Sana. — To (21/2 M.) Vallebana via
Borvheuo. — Through the Vallecrosta Valley, viii Valleeroaia, San Biaqt‘o
della (Jim, and Soldzma, to (Bl/r4 hrs.) Perinaldo, a village commanding
beautiful views. — The ascent of the ‘Cdma di San Magda or Or‘ma di Santa
Croce (1060 it; there and back 2-3 hrs.) is highly attractive. Crossing
the Ber-ghetto at the W. end of the Strada Romania, we proceed past the
Ehlpei of the Madonna di Loreto to the valley of Vallecrosia; a foot ath
on the opposite side of the “valley ascends to the N. over the ridge (8mm
Ramamx) to the chapel on the summit. We may return by a steep path
“lung vineyards to Valleerou'a (see above). — To Doleeacqua and Pigna,
see p. 98. — To Calais-add via (81/: H.) Orpedamu, see p. 93.

To the right of the line we pass the Protestant school of Valle-
cronia (shown to visitors on Mon. , Wed., & Thurs.). Crossing the Ner-
viﬂ, we obtain a glimpse of the Maritime Alps. The line crosses the
“Rd; on the left are scanty remains of the Roman theatre of Nervia.

