230 Route 37. VERONA. a. Right Bank ofthc Adm.

We now return from the Piazza Vitt. Emanuele (p. 227) to the
N.E. to the Piazza delle Erbe by the narrow Vn Noon Lamicars
and its prolongation, the VIA Nuova (Pl. E, 3), together forming
the chief thoroughfare of the city (corso in the evening).

In the Via della Seals, one of the B. side-streets of the Via Nuou,
is the church of Santa Maria delta Scale (Pl. E, 3), with an early-Renais-
sance portnl and frescoes of the school of Vittore Piano (in the bell
chamber. to the right of the high-altar). — This street is prolonged by
the Via San Cosimo, at No. 8 in which (Kai-chm Remand") is a good
replica of Seb. del Piombo‘s so-called ‘Dorothea‘ at Berlin.

In the VIA Carmine, through which the tramway runs S. from
the Piazza delle Erbe (P1. E, 3), an old house (Nos. 19-25) on the
left bears a marble tablet which is said to indicate the house of
Juliet’s parents (Capuletti; p. 228). The street then takes the
name of VIA San Sense-rune (Pl. E, 3, 4), in which, adjoining
the church of San Sebastiano (Pl. F,4), is the Biblioteca Commute
(open in winter 9-3 and 6-9, in summer 9-4), founded in 1860,
and containing numerous records.

In the VIA Lnom (Pl. F, 4), the prolongation of the same street,
on the left, immediately beyond No. 1, is the Areo de’ Looni, part
of a Roman double gateway, coeval with the Ports. de’ Borsari
(p. 227), but of superior execution, bearing aninscription partially
preserved. Behind it are remains of a still older arch.

Near this is the Gothic church of Ban Fermo More (Pl. E,
F, 4), built at the beginning of the 14th cent. for the Benedictines
and afterwards transferred to the Franciscans. The interesting facade
is enriched with brick and marble. On the left side of the facade
is the sarcophagus of Fracastoro, physician of Can Grands 1., with
ancient Veronese frescoes (14th cent.).

The In'rnnron, entered by the left side-door (visitors knock), has no
aisles. Part of it is modernised. Fine old roof in larch-wood. Above
the main entrance is a fresco of the early Veronese school, the Cruciﬁxion,
in polychrome frame. To the left is the monument of the Brenaoni, with
sculptures by the Florentine Reno (p. 225; 12120); above are much damaged
frescoes by Viuon Rama, the Annunciation. — 1st altar on the left, three
saints by Torbido. — Over the side—entrance, fresco of the Cruciﬁxion; in
the chapel to the left, Altar-piece by Garcia (1525) Madonna, at. Anna,
and the Child in clouds, with four saints below. — in an adjoining specs.
behind a railing, is the monument of the physician Gir. della Torre, by
Riccio (the bronze reliefs, now in the Louvre, are here replaced by copies).
— Chapel on the left of high-altar St. Anthony with four other snints, by
Liberate. — 3rd altar on the right n the nave, Trinity, Madonna in clouds.
Tobias and the angel, and a. saint, by Franc. Torbt‘do.

b. Left Bank of the Adige (Veronetta).

The Via Leoni ends at the iron Ponte delle Ravi (Pl. F, 4),
which was erected in 1893 on the site of two stone bridges destroyed
by inundations of the Adige in 1757 and 1882. It aﬂords a good
survey of the choir and transept of San Fermo, and also up the river
to the Gastello San Pietro (p. 233). — A little way above the bridge.
on what was formerly an island, stands the spacious church of Sn

