532 Route 59. PRATOVEGGHIO. Environs

From the Begnale di Proton-gm (5223 (L), the highest summit of the

Pratomagno chain (0-5 hrs. from Vallombrosa, with guide) a steep path de- .

scends to the N., through woods and ravines (1V2 hr.), skirting the brook
Holano, passing cum and several other mountain-villages, and leading
to the picturesque market-town of San Niccolo, commanded by the ancient
fort of that name and situated at the conﬂuence of the Solano and Arno,
where the fertile éueutino expands. Carriage-roads lead from S. Niccolo
to Poppi (“/4 K; p. 534), and to Btia and Pratoveechio (4 11.; see below).

0:.) CAMALDOLI and La Vanna. This excursion takes walkers
31/2-4 days from Pontassieve or Vallombrosa. ist Day, over the Con-
suma Pass to Stia and Pratovecchio; 2nd Day, direct or via the Fal-
terona to Camaldoli; 3rd Day, by Badia a Prataglia to La Verne;
4th Day, to Bibbiena, and thence by train to Arezzo. Those who
omit the beautiful hill-walks in the Gasentino visit Carnaldoli from
Poppi or Bibbiena, and La Verna by carriage from Bibbiena. Comp.
the Guido Illustrata del Casentino (Florence, 1889), by C. Bani.

The road mentioned at p. 531 ascends past the old castle of
Diacceto, the (4 M.) village of the same name, and the 61/2 M.)
hamlet of Boraelli to the (101/2 M.) Consume Pass (ca. 3 60 ft),
which may also be reached from Vallombrosa by a bridle-path
(comp. above; guide necessary, 2 hrs.) A little on this side of the
head of the pass is the small village of Consume, with two poor
osterie. The summit of the Monte Comuma (3435 ft.) lies to the
right. Farther on the road leads up and down to (14 M.) the lonely
inn (unpretending) of Casaccia and (15 M.) Omomorto. A little
lower down a view is disclosed of the Casentino, or upper valley
of the Arno, bounded on the N. and E. by the Central Apennines
and on the W. by the Pratomagno chain, while it is open towards
the S. To the S.E. appears the jagged outline of the Verna, and A
little farther on, to the left, the range of Falterona. — At (17 M.)
Searpaccia the road to (191/2 M.) Stia and Prawveochio diverges
to the left from the highroad to Bibbiena. To the right, 11/, )l.
to the S.W. of Pratovecchio, we see the ruined castle of Roman
mentioned by Dante (Inferno, xxx. 73), near which arose the Foul:
Brande, now dried up. A little farther on the road again forks, the
left branch leading to Stia, the right to Pratovecchio. The station
of the railway to Arezzo (p. 534) lies between these two places.

Shin (1460 ft.; ‘Alb. delta Stazione Alpina, R. 11/; fr., unpre—
tending; carr. and pair to Camaidoli via Poppi, 10-12 {L}, with an
picturesque church (‘La Pieve’), and Pratoveochio (1410ft.; Alb.
Bastieri) are well adapted as headquarters for excursions in the
Casentino [guide 5 fr. daily, and his food).

From Pratovecchio s footpath leads to Camaldoli (about 9 M.)
vii Moggiona; another route, somewhat longer, passes Casalino and
Sacra Eremo (see p. 533). — The following is a ﬁne but somewhat
fatiguing round from Stia: past the ruined castle of Porciano to the
N. of the Source of the Arno (‘Capo d’Arno’; see Dante’s ‘Purgatorio’,
xiv. ; 4265 it), 3 hrs.; thence to the summit of [ants Falteronl
(5410 ft"; Recovero Dante, of the Ital. Alpine Club), which com-

