em, Ambrogio. MILAN. 19. Route. 137

The Lombard kings and German emperors formerly caused them—
selves to be crowned here with the iron crown, which since the time
of Frederick Barbsrossa has been preserved at Monza (p. 146). The
ancient pillar at which they took the coronation-oath before being
crowned is still preserved under the lime-trees in the piazza.

linemen. To the right, in the nave, is a marble statue of Pius IX., by
From. Confulonierl’ (1880). — In the let chapel of the left aisle, an Ecce
Home, fresco by B. Luini. —- On the right and left of the sidewntrancc
in the right aisle: frescoes by Gauderm‘o Ferrari, representing the Bearing
of the Cross, the three Marries, and the Descent from the Cross. 2nd
Che el on the right: a ﬁne kneeling statue of St. Mercellina, by Pam“
(181). 5th Chapel on the right: Legend of St. George, frescoes by Ben
rmrdt‘uo Lanim'. —- The second door to the left in the large 6th chapel
leads to the Cappella di San Sotiro, with mosaics of the 5th cent. (restored)
in the dome. In the dark chapel to the right of the choir is an altar-piece
by B. Lus‘m’, Madonna and saints. — The 'High Altar, apparently restored
about 121), still retains its original decoration of the ﬁrst half of the 9th
cent, the only intact example of its period. This consists of reliefs on
silver and gold ground (in front), enriched with enamel and gems, executed
by Valfoinm a German (covered, shown only on payment of 5fr.). The
12th cent. ‘ anopy over the high-altar, which is adorned with interesting
reliefs, recently re-gilded, is borne by four columns of porphyry from the
original altar. The apse contains an ancient episcopal throne. In the
Tribune are ’Mossics of the 9th cent., earlier than those of St. Mark‘s at
Venice: Christ in the centre, at the sides the history of St. Ambrose. —
To the left of the choir, in the aisle, is an inscription from the tomb of
limp. Louis H. (d. 876; destroyed; formerly in the vestibule); farther on
is the tombstone of Pepin, son of Charlemagne, above which is an altar-
(iece of the Lombard School (Madonna and two saints). Opposite, at the
I. entrance to the Cnrr-r, is a fresco by Borgognone (Christ among the
Scribes). The modernised crypt contains a. silver reliquary, designed in
1898 by Ippah'lo Martha!“ and Gian. Lemons“, in which are preserved the
bones of SS. Ambrose, Protasius, and Gcrvasius. —- By the pulpit are a
bronse eagle, a brazen relief of St. Ambrose (10th cent. ?), and an early
Christian sarcophagus of the 6th century.

Adjacent to the left aisle is an unﬁnished cloister, designed by
Bramantc (1492), and afterwards rebuilt. '

The Via Lanzone (P1. 0, 6) leads hence to the S.E. to the Via
Torino and San Lorenzo (p. 138).

d. Along the Via Torino to the Southern Quarters of the City
(San Lorenzo, Sant’ Eustorgio, Ospedale Maggiore).

The busy Vrs TonINo (Pl. E, D, 5, 6; electric lines to Ports
Genovs and Ports Tlcinese, see p. 114) begins at the S.W. corner of
the Piazza del Duomo. To the left is the small church of San Satiro
(Pl. E, 5, 6; closed 12-4, in winter 12-3), founded in the 9th cent.,
and re-erected by Bramante and his pupil Bramantino about 1480.
The facade has been restored. The apparent choir is only painted
in perspective. The octagonal *Bsptistery (off the right transept)
is also by Bramante, and has a beautiful frieze by Ca’radosso (putti,
and heads in medallions). At the end of the left transept is a curious
little building with a cupola, belonging, like the belfry, to the
original structure; it contains 3 Beth, in painted terracotta, by
Caradosso (? covered).

