ITALIAN ART. liii

Axum MONA (1431-1506; at Padua and Mantua) derive
much interest from having exercised a marked inﬂuence on the
German masters Holbein and Diner, and surpass all the other works
of his time in ﬁdelity to nature and excellence of perspective
(p. 222). — The earlier masters of the Venetian School (Vivanmr,
(imam) were to some extent adherents of the Paduan school, to
which Mantegna belonged, but the peculiar Venetian style, mainly
founded on local characteristics, and admirably successful in its rich
portraiture of noble and digniﬁed personages, was soon afterwards
elaborated by Gan-mm BaLLnu (1427—1507) and his brother Gro-
nmn (1428-1516), sons of Giacomo. — The Umbrian School also,
which originated at Gubbio, and is admirably represented early in
the 15th century by O'r'ravuxo NBLIJ, blending with the Tuscan
school in GBNTILB DA Funrano (ca. 1370-1428) and culminating
in its last masters Prnrno Vmcor, surnamed Psnuemo (1446—
1524), and Bannmmo Ba-r'rr, surnamed Pmrunrccrno (1454-
1513), merits attention, not only because Raphael was one of its
adherents during his ﬁrst period, but because it supplements the
broader Florentine style, and notwithstanding its peculiar and limit-
ed bias is impressive in its character of lyric sentiment and relig-
ions devotion (e. g. Madonnas).

The fact that the various points of excellence were distributed
among diﬂerent local schools showed the necessity of a loftier union.
'I‘rauscendent talent was requisite in order harmoniously to UNION 0,
combine what could hitherto be viewed separately only. cimaam
The 15th century. notwithstanding all its attractiveness, 90300”
shows that the climax of art was still unattained. The forms em-
ployed, graceful and pleasing though they be, are not yet lofty and
pure enough to be regarded as embodiments of the highest and
noblest conceptions. The ﬁgures still present a local colouring,
having been selected by the artists as physically attractive , rather
than as characteristic and expressive of their ideas. A portrait style
still predominates , the actual representation does not appear
always wisely balanced with the internal signiﬁcance of the event,
and the dramatic element is insufﬁciently emphasised. The most
abundant scope was therefore now afforded for the labours of the
great triumvirate, Laorunno m Vmor, Mrcmnr. ANGELO Bumme-
am, and Rarmx. Sun, by whom an entirely new era was in-
augurated.

Leonardo’s (1452-1519) remarkable character can only be thor—'
Oughly understood after prolonged study. His comprehensive
genius was only partly devoted to art; he also directed momma
his attention to scientiﬁc and practical pursuits of an entirely in VINO!-
diﬂerent nature. Reﬁnement and versatility may be described as
the goal of his aspirations; a division of labour, a partition
Of individual tasks were principles unknown to him. He laid,
as it were, his entire personality into the scale in all that he

