4-90 Route 58. FLORENCE. c. From the Piazza del Duomo

in 1537. The original structure. however, is still in great part
recognisable, particularly its beautiful court and the staircases.

An imposing gateway leads to the Coun'r, surrounded by arcades, ancient

busts, sarcophagi, Greek and Latin inscriptions from Rome. etc. The sar-
cophagus in the S.W. corner, with the representation of the Calydonisn
Hunt, formerly contained the remains of Guccio de’ Medici, an ancestor
of the family who was Gonfaloniere in 1299. The relief-medallions above
the arcades, copied from antique gems. are by Donatello.
‘ The ﬁrst staircase on the N. (right) side lends to the private Cnaru.
of the Medici (adm., see p.137), embellished with ‘Frescoes by Bottom
Gouols’, painted about 145 $8, representing the journey of the Magi, with
numerous portraits of the Medici. Benozzo ‘shaped the various episodes
of a pompous progress into one long series ﬁlling the walls of the body
of the building. The kings, in gorgeous state, are accompanied on their
march by knights and pages in sumptuous dresses, by hunters and follower
of all kinds, and the spectator glances by turns at the forms of crowned
kings. of squires, and attendants with hunting leopards, all winding their
solemn way through a rich landscape country’. — 0. d: C. - 0n the
window-walls are charming 'Angels in the garden of heaven, of ad
mirable design.

The second staircase on the right (‘Ingresso agli Ufllzi dens Rule
Profettura‘) leads to the GALLERY (adm., see p. 437), a sumptuous aperl-
,ment, with a ceiling-painting by Luca Giordano, representing the ledici
as gods of light among the deities of Olympus (1684).

At the back of the palace, Via de' Ginori 4, is the entrance to
the Bmmorscs Riccsnmst, founded in 1600 by Riccardo Riccordi.
and purchased by the state in 1812. The collection comprises about
30,000 vols. and 3800 MSS., including a Virgil illustrated with
miniatures by Ben. Goszoli and several MSS. by Dante, Petrard.
Machiavelli, Galileo, etc. Admission, see p. 437.

The Palauo Ginori (Pl. F, 3), Vin de‘ Ginori 13, was built by Baccio
d‘Agnolo and contains a ﬁne Holy Family by Luca. Signorelli.

Farther on in the Via Cavonr (No. 45; left) is the Biblioteco
Mamcclliana (Pl. G, 3; adm., see p. 437), founded in 1703 by
Francesco Marucelli, containing numerous works on the history of
'art and a ﬁne collection of engravings.

Farther on, to the right, opens the Prszzs SAN Msnco (Pl. G, 3L
which is adorned with a bronze statue of General Fanti (d. 1861).
by Pio Fedi, erected in 1872. On the N.E. side of this piazza rises
San Marco, an old monastic church, founded in 1290, several times
rebuilt (once by Giov. da Bologna), and provided with a heads
in 1780.

Inrnnron. Entrance-well: Pietro Gavalls'nt (a pupil of Giotto), The
Annunciation, u fresco discovered in 1901-, over the central door, Giotto,
Cruciﬁxion. Bron-r Wane, 2nd altar: 'Madonns with six saints, by I‘m
Bartolomeo (1509- injured); 3rd altar: Early-Christian mosaic from Rome
(modernized). — in the Sscnrsn (erected by Hichelouo, 1437) a recumbent
statue of St. Antoninus (p. 491) in bronze by Portigiant. — Adjoinin the
choir on the left is the chapel of Prince btanislaus Poniatowski (d. 1‘83)
— Then the Cnsrnr. 09 Sr. Amormws; architecture (ca. 1588) and statue
of the saint (above the entrance—arch) by Giovanni da Bologna; the six
statues of other saints are by Pietra Francaoilla. Freseoes, representing
the burial of the saint, by Paaaimnt. —— This church contains (between
the 2nd and 3rd altars of the left wall) the tombs of the celebrated scholar
Giovanni Pica delta Hirandola (p. 35?), who died in 1119-1 at the age of 31.
and of the learned poet Angelo Felicia-o (HM-9‘; p. “3).

 

