to Como. MONZA. 20. Route. 147

Via Itaiia to the right, we pass the church of Santa Maria in Istrada
Sseeond on the right), with a Gothic brick facade of 1393, and in
0 min. reach the Piazza Roma, the centre of the town, with the
handsome Gothic Municipio or town—hall, also called Palaszo
Arengario (13th cent). — A few paces distant is the Piazza del
Duomo, in which rises the — ,

Camnm (San Giovanni), the chief object of interest. It was
erected in the 14th cent. in the Lombard Gothic style by Matteo da
Campiom on the site of a church founded in 590 by the Lombard
queen Theodolinda and afterwards replaced by ‘a Romanesque
structure. The interior, with both aisles ﬂanked by chapels, has
been almost entirely modernized since the 17th century. The ﬁne
facade was restored in 1899-1901. Above the portal is a very
curious relief representing Queen Theodolinda amid her treasures;
below, the Baptism of Christ.

Isrsnlon. In the E. transept is a relief representing the coronation
of a German king, from the former imperial gallery of 1!. da Carnations
(now the organ-loft). — The chapel to the left of the choir, restored in
1890, contains the plain sarcophagus of Queen Theodolinda (14th cent.)
and frescoes of scenes from her life by Zavauan‘ (1444). Here also is
preserved the celebrated Inou CROWN, supposed to have been the royal
crowu‘of the Lombards, with Which the German emperors were crowned
u kings of Italy, from the 13th cent. onwards. This venerable relic was
used at the coronation of the Emp. Charles V. in 1530, of Na. clean at
man in 18%, and of Emp. Ferdinand I. in 1838. It consists o a broad
PM) of gold adorned with precious stones, round the interior of which
nathin strip of iron, said to have been made from a nail of the true
'Cross brought by the Empress Helena from Palestine. In its present form
I! is, perhaps, a work of the 12th centu . In 1859 it was carried off by
”It Austrians, but after the peace of 186?“ was restored. (Fee for seeing
the crown and treasury, 5 fr.) — The “Tunasnnr (fee 1 fr.) contains several
Objects of historical interest: a hen with seven chickens in silver-gut
(on a modern c0pper base), perhaps representing Lombardy and its seven
Provinces, executed by order of Queen Theodolinda; the queen‘s crown,
in. and comb; a richly-adorned book-cover with an inscription of Theo-
dolinda; tine diptyohs of the 4-6th cent.; reliquary of Berengarius; goblet
01 sapphire, with a stem of Gothic workmanship; Gothic goblet of Gian
Galeazzo Visconti; Gothic carvings in ivory. -— In a wall-recess of the old
Wmetery, on the N. side of the cathedral, is the mummy of Ettore Visconti
(d. 1413), shown by the verger.

in the Via Matteo da Campione, in the N.W. part of the town,
I Memorial Chapel is to mark the spot on which King Humbert was
assassinated, on July 29th, 1900.

To the N. of the town, about 3/4 M. from the Piazza Roma, lies
lilo Gasrnnno REALE, formerly the royal summer—palace, in an
txtensive and beautiful park, traversed by the Lambro. The mansion,
“1 the ‘classicist’ style, was built about 1777 by Gina. Piermarini for
Archduke Ferdinand, Governor of Lombardy. A drive in the park
15 attractive (entrance near the electric tramway terminus, 1/4 M. to
the left of the Costello); cyclists are restricted to the main avenue.
_ Floss lion-2A 1'0 Bnnoamo, 24 M., steam-tramway in 21/. hrs. The chief
llliermediate stations are (51/: M.) Wmercate and (131/2 M.) Treno sull‘ Adda
i515 (L), with the picturesque ruins of 3 Castle of the Yawn“ (adm. 50 0.),
“l Which Giov. Galeazzo (p. 111) conﬁned his uncle Bernabb. The Mar-

10"

