482 Route 58. FLORENCE.

d. From the Piazza. del Duomo to the Piazza dell’ Annunxiata.
‘ Archaeological Museum.

Leaving the Piazza del Duomo (p. 460) by the VIA nn’ Slum
(Pl. F, G, 4), we pass the Palazzo Fiaschi (No. 10) on the right (fine
windows on the groundﬂoor) and. the Palaszo Buturlin (Pl. G, 4;
formerly Pal. Niccolini) on the left (No. 16), with its handsome
court and modern painting. The former was erected by B. Ammanati,
the latter by Domenico, son of Baccio d’Agnolo. We then reach
the Piazza dell’ Annunziata.

The large block of buildings in the adjacent Via de’ Pucci is
the Palazso Pucci (Pl. F, 4), dating from the 15th cent. , but partly
rebuilt in the 16th and 17th by Bart. Ammanati and Falconieri'.

In the Via degli Alfani, to the right, a little short of the piazza,
rises the former Camaldulensian convent of SANTA MARIA neon
Anarom (Pl. G, 4), founded in 1295, with an unﬁnished octagonal
Oratory with niches, by Brunelleachi. —- Opposite (No. 50) is the
Palazso Giugni, built by Ammanati in 1560, with a line court.

At the left corner of the PrAzzA DELL’ ANNUNer'rA (Pl. G, 3, 4)
is (No. 1) the Palazzo Riccardi-Mannelli, a brick ediﬁce with orna-
mentation in stone of Fiesole, erected by Bern. Buontalenti in1565.
The piazza is embellished with two baroque fountains by Pietro
Tacea (1629), and the Equestrian Statue of the Grand-Dulce Fa-
dinand 1., by Giovanni da Bologna (his last, but not his best work),
erected in 1608, and cast of metal captured from the Turks. The
pedestal was adorned in 1640, in the reign of Ferdinand II.

On the S.E. side of the piazza rises the ‘Spedale degli Inno-
oenti, or Foundling Hospital (Pl. G, 4), the initial work of Be-
naissance architecture, begun in 1419 by Bnmelleachi, continued
by his pupil Francesco della Luna, and completed in 1451, at the
expense of the Guild of Silk Workers. The medallions with charm-
ing ‘Infants in swaddling clothes, between the arches, are by Andr.
della Robbia. To the left in the court, over the door leading to
the church of SANTA MAnIA DEGLI Irmoonnrr, is a good Annun-
ciation by Andrea dclla Robbia. The interior contains an altar-piece
(covered), the "Adoration of the Magi, by Domenico Ghirlandaja
(1488), and a relief of the Madonna by Luca delta Robbla. On the
right side of the court is the entrance to a small picture-gallery
(Piero di Cosimo, etc.). — Opposite the Spedale is the hall of the
Seroi di Santa Maria brotherhood, erected by Antonio do Sangauo
the Elder and Baccio d’Agnolo (1518).

The church of the *Suntissima. Annmiata (Pl. G, H, 3). on
the NE. side of the piazza, was founded in 1250 on the site of
the Romanesque church of Santa Maria della Pace, and has since
been altered and redecorated by Michelozao (1444-60) and others.
Michelozzo’s handsome portico was rebuilt by Caccim' in 1601.
The ﬁrst door on the left leads to the old Servite monastery and the

\

