174 Route 28. CANNOBIO. Lago Maggiore.

Briana (“'20 ft), in 1hr. each. Easy paths lead from Orselina to the (ill. hr.)
small Albergo Miralago (3225 ft.) and the German vegetarian Polm'ou Alpert-
hetm (pens. Orin; with milk-cure). commandin tine lake-views. About
1 M. further on is the chapel of San Bernardo ( ft).

The *Lago Maggiore (635 ft.; greatest depth 1220 it), the Locus
Verbanua of the Romans , is about 37 M. long and averages 2-3 M.
in width (area 85 sq. M. ). The N. part of the lake belongs to Switzer-
land; the W. bank beyond the brook Valmara, and the E. bank
beyond the Dirimlla belong to Italy. its principal tributaries are on
the N. the Ticino (Tcssin) and the Maggie, and on the W. the Tosa.
The river issuing from the S. end of the lake retains the name of
Ticino. The banks of the N. arm are bounded by lofty mountains,
for the most part wooded, whilst the E. shore towards the lower
end slopes gradually away to the level of the plains of Lombardy.
The water is of a green colour in its N. arm, and deep blue towards
the S.

Opposite Loearno , at the mouth of the Tlcino, lies Magadino
(8.; Pena. Viviam', pens. incl. wine 41/2-5 fr., well spoken of, on
the lake), comprising two villages, Magadino Inferiore and Supe-
riore, at the foot of Monte Tamara (p. 12).

To the S. of Locarno we have a view into the valley of the Maggie.
Farther on the W. bank of the lake is studded with country-houses,
villages, and campanili. 0n the bank of the lake runs the road from
Locarno to Pallanza. In an angle lies Ascﬁna (B.), with a ruined
castle and several villas; higher up, on the slope, Roma. Passing
the two small Iaole di Briasago, the steamer reaches Germ and
Rama (1%.) on the E. bank. — 0n the W. bank lies Brissago (Hotel
Suiase, fair), the last Swiss station, with picturesque villas in luxu—
riant gardens, and a ﬁne group of old cypresses near the church.
The slopes above are covered with vines, ilg-trees, olives, and pome-
granatcs, and even the myrtle ﬂourishes in the open air. A pleas-
ant route leads to Madonna dcl Monte, with its chalybeate spring. —
To the S. of Brissago is a large ‘international’ tobacco factory.

. Opposite Brissago, on the E. bank, lies the Italian village of
Pine (R.).

Sant’ Agc‘ita and Cannobio (Hotel Cannobio et Savoie, on the
lake, R. 2-31/2, B. 11/, ddj. 21/2, D. 31/2, pens. 6-8 m; Albergo
delle Alpi, moderate; l‘Pens. Badia, 11/2 M. to the S., 260 ft. above
the lake, pleasant and quiet, pens. 6-7 fr.), on the W. bank, are also
on Italian territory. Cannobio (3126 inhab.) is one of the oldest
and most prosperous villages on the lake, situated on a plateau at
the entrance of the Val Cannobina, and overshadowed by richly
wooded mountains. In the early—Renaissance church of Madonna
delta Pieth, the ﬂue dome of which is in the style of Bramante and
the octagonal choir by Pellegrino Tibaldi (1571), is a "Bearing of
the Cross, with a predella representing worshipping angels, by
Gaud. Ferrari (about 1525). — Cannobio is the station of the Italian
gun-boats in the preventive service.

