448 Route 58. FLORENCE. a. Piazza della Signoria,

Cellini (1553), who also executed the stetuettes and bee-reliefs of the
pedestal (one of the reliefs, now in the Borgello, is replaced by a out);
behind it the Rape of Polyxena, a large grOup in marble by Pia Fedi, erected
in 1866. To the left of the latter, Judith and Holofernee in bronze, by
Donatello (ca. 1440; comp. p. l), with the inscription ‘Salutis Publieé
Exemplum‘, erected in front of the Palazzo Vecchio after the expulsion
of the Medici (1495) but replaced there by Michael Angela‘s David in
1504. In the centre, ‘Menelaus with the body of Patroolus (or Ajax and
Achilles), an antique but freely restored copy of the so-enlled Pasquino
at Rome, and brought thence in 1570. To the right of it, Hercules slaying
the centaur Nessus, in marble, by 04w. da Bologna. By the wall at the
back are ﬁve antique portrait-statues, and a °Mournlng Woman (‘Germania
devicta‘; the so-called Thusnelda; 3rd from the left), in which the ex-
pression of grief in the barbaric but noble countenance is admirably depicted.

Between the Ufﬂzi (p. 456) and the Palazzo Vecchio the W;
dolls Ninna leads to the E. to the Via de’ Neri, in which is situatei
the Loggia det Gram (P1. E, 6), erected by Giulio Parigi in 1619
and adorned with a bust of Cosimo II. —- By the Via de’ Gondi zn
the Bargello, with the National Museum, see p. 472.

From the W. side of the Piazza della Signoria the short Vii
Vacchereecia leads to the busy Vu Pon SANTA Mame (Pl. E, 5),
which ends at the Ponte Vecchio (p. 510). In the latter, at the corner
of the Via Lambertesca, rises (left) the Torre dei Girolami, near
which is the old church of Santa Stefano (Pl. E, 5, 6), where Bo:-
eaccio, by desire of the Signoria, publicly explained Dante’s Divine
Comedy in 1373. — The Borgo Santi Apostoli leads hence to the
W., passing the Palazzo Rossetti del Turco (N0. 15; on the left).
built for the Borgherini by Baccio d’Agnolo, to the little Piazza dt‘l
Limbo, in which rises the church of ——

Senti Apostoli (Pl. D, 5), a Tuscan-Romanesque basilica of
the 11th cent., with an inscription (on the facade, to the left)
attributing its foundation to Charlemagne. The arches between the
nave and aisles are adorned with a ﬁne border in the antique stch
and rest upon columns with well-executed composite capitals. The
aisles are vaulted. At the end of the left aisle is an elegant ciborium.
conjectured to be an early work by Giov. della Robbia, adjoining
which is the monument of Oddo Altoviti, byBenedctto da Rovasant.
The sculptured decoration of the portal is also by the latter artist.
At the end of the right aisle is thetomb of Bindo Altoviti, by Bar:
Ammanati (1570). — Farther on are the Fiesta Santa Tamara and
the Via Tomabuoni (p. 505).

The Via Por Santa Maria is connected with the Via Tornahuoni
also by the Via delle Terms, at the beginning of which, on the right,
stands the old Ofﬁce of the Capitam’ delta Parts Guelfa (Pl. E, 5;
p. 440). The unﬁnished upper story of the building, With a largc
hall (now built up), was designed by Brunellesohi.

 

From the Piazza della Signoria the busy VIA nsr CALZAJOU
(Pl. E, 4, 5; ‘Strest of the stocking-makers’) leads towards the N.

