318 Route 42. VENICE. 9. Giudecca.

Campam: last altar, Martyrdom of St. Lucia by Leandra Baum; moa-
ument of the Dogs Marcantonio Memo (d. 1615).

An easy ascent on 32 inclined planes leads from the choir to
the summit of the Campanile (before ascending, enquire whether
the door at the top is open), which commands perhaps the best
’Vrnw of the city and the Lagune. — The Dominican monastery,
to which the church belonged, is now an artillery bunch and arsenal.

The adjoining island of Giudecca (steamboat, see p. 261; return-
ing in about half-an-hour on the way back) is separated from the
mainland by the Giudecca Canal, which is 1 M. long and nearly
1/4 M. wide at its widest part.

On this island stands the formerly Franciscan church of the -

‘Redentore (St. Sam'our’s; Pl. F, 8), begun in 1577 by Palladia
but not ﬁnished until 1592, a much vaunted ediﬁce, chieﬂy in-
teresting in the interior.

0x rm: Bron-r: 1st Chapel, Nativity, by Francesco Banana.- 3rd, Scourg-
ing, Tinlorelto. ON rm: Lnnz 2nd, Resurrection, F. Banana; 1st, Ascen-
sion, Tinlorello. In front of the high-altar Christ bearing the Cross, at
the back, a Descent from the Cross, reliei‘s in marble by 01in. Hana:
above, ‘Christ on the Cross, with SS. Mark and Francis, line bronze ﬁgures
by Campagna. — The SACBISTY contains three Madonnas of the school of
Giovanni Bellini (covered by curtains).

0n the Fula del Redmtore (third Sun. in July) a bridge-of-boats is formed
across the Giudecca. to this church and a water-festival is hold all night long.

Visitors who have not yet seen the church of San Sebastian
(p. 314) may here take one of the steamboats mentioned at p. 262
to the Fondamenta delle Zattere.

h. Excursions.

1. A visit to the Lido, which is specially animated during the
bathing-season, is the favourite excursion from Venice. Steamboat.
see p. 262; the last steamboat leaves the Lido in winter a little be—
fore sunset (previous enquiries advisable). A gondola takes at least
1/2 hr. (two gondoliers desirable at all times and necessary in wind).

From Santa Maria Elisabetta, the landing-place (hotel-restau-
rants, Pl. 2, 3, 4, see p. 262), a road (tramway) runs across the island
in 8 min. to the Bathing Establishment (p. 262) and the Gr. Hét. des
Bains (Pl. 1; p. 262). The sea-baths at the establishment are fre-
quented by Italians in summer, but in spring and autumn almost
exclusively by foreigners. A pleasant walk along the beach may be
taken to the S.W., past the Ospizio Marina and the dismantled F om
Quamo Fontam, to (11/4 hr.) Malamocco (p. 321). -—— The N. end
of the Lido (also connected with Venice by steamer; line No. 5,
p. 262), is defended by the Forte San Niccolb and (to the W., beyond
the Porto di Lido, p. 270) the former Forte Sant’ Andrea di Lido,
erected in 1544 by Sanmichcli, as architect of the Republic. Within
the fort of S. Niccolo is the Old Prolestaml Cemetery, with the grave

