254 Route 40. PADUA. Santa Giuah'na.

Orto Botanico (p. 253), lies the Boramc GARDEN (P1. D, E, 6),
founded in 1545 (ring at the gate). Director, Prof. Saccardo.

The hot'houses to the left of the entrance contain an araucaria (Arm:—
can‘a exceha), dating from 1829, and a small Litiuona amtralir. - Close
by are a, Vita: agmu caslus planted in 1560 and the superb Palm dr‘ Goethe
(Charmer-op: human), planted about 1580, visited and described by Goethe
in 1786, and enclosed within a building of its own since 1874. In the
wilder portion of the gardens are a hickory (Carya) 117 ft. high, planted
in 1760, and a huge hollow plane-tree, planted in 1686. The main building
contains a valuable library and portraits of eminent botanists of all
countries.

The Via Donatello leads to the W. from the Botanic Garden to
the large Piazza Vittorio Emanuele Secondo (Pl. 0, D, 6), formerly
the Prato della Valle. In the centre is a shady promenade adorned
with a double series of 82 statues of illustrious men connected
with Padua. In the innerrrow to the left, Staph. Bath‘o'ri, John So-
biaski, Gustavus Adolphus, Livy, in the outer row Tasso, Ariosto,
Petrarch, Galileo, etc. This spacious Piazza is deserted except at
the time of the fair (ﬁéra), which begins on the festival of St. Anthony
(13th June) and lasts for three days. — On the W. side of the
piazza is the Loggia Amulea (P1. 0, 6), a modern Gothic structure,
used by the judges at the horse-races held here annually on 12th
June. Below are marble Statues of Dante and Giotto, by Vinoenzo
Vela (1865).

At the S.E. angle of the Piazza is ‘Banta Giustina (Pl. D, 7), a
Renaissance church of imposing proportions, begun by GiroL da
Brescia in 1501, continued by Al. Leopardi in 1521-22, and com-
pleted in 1532 by Morons of Bergamo. The unadorned brick facade
is approached by a handsome ﬂight of twelve steps. The interior
consists of nave and aisles, ﬂanked with rows of chapels; it is 364 ft.
long and 98 ft. wide, with a transept 250 ft. lorig. The aisles are
roofed with barrel-vaulting, the nave with three ﬂat domes. The
transept and choir terminate in semicircular recesses and are sur-
mounted by four lofty cupolas.

The church is paved with coloured marble. Behind the high-altar,
which contains the tomb of St. Justina (d. 303), is the ‘Martyrdom of SL
Justina, by Paolo Veronue. Beautifully carved ‘Choir Stalls from drawings
of Campagnala (1560), New Testament subjects above, and Old Testament
below. In the chapel on the right of the choir, a Piste. s. large group ill
marble by Parodt‘ (17th cent). The old choir, the only remnant of the
original church (entrance by door on the right of high-alter) also possesses
ﬁns carved stalls with intarsia-work. — The cloister-courts are now in-
accessible, being used fer military purposes.

In the Via Roma (Pl. 0, 5), near a small bridge over the Bac-
chiglione, is a round marble tablet in the wall, marking the spot
where Ezzelino (p. 223) doﬂ‘ed his helmet and kissed the town-gate
on capturing Padua in 1237 (modern inscription).

In the quiet Piazza Eremitaui, to the NE. of the town, is the
isolated group of buildings consisting of the Eremuani and the Ma-
donna dell’ Arena.

