252 Route 40. PADUA. Sonata det Santa.

lifesize statue by Giulio to Court.- to the left is the monument of the jurist
Antonio 12mm (d. 1466), in the early-Renaissance style, by Bart. Bum.

Cnom. The marble screen was designed by Donatello; on its inner
side are twelve reliefs in bronze, from the Old Testament, ten by Bellow
(1484.88), two (David before the Ark, Judith and Holofernes; the 3rd and
5th to the left) by Rteoio (1507). The full-length portrait of St. Anthony,
by the exit on the left, is said to be the best likeness. — The ‘High Altar,
executed in 1446-50 by Donatello and his pupils and removed in 1576 to
make room for an altar by Giro]. Campagna, was restored from a design
of Camilla Boilo in 1895 and adorned wilh the original sculptures by Don»
tello. Below are twelve charming angels with musical instruments. a ﬁne
Deposition in the Tomb, and the symbols of the four Evangelists (studio-
pieces). (in the antependium are a Pieta and four eXQuisite reliefs in
bronze (Miracles of St. Anthony). 0n the altar and arapet is a brazen
cruciﬁx, with the Virgin, the tutelars of Padua, and our other saints. -—
By the altar is a bronze 'Candelsbrum, 111/2 ft. hllssnh, by Riccio, with s
variety of Christian and heathen representations (1 -16).

Anson-roar. To the left of the Capp. del Santo is the early-Remis-
sance tomb of the jurist Rafaello Fulyoso (d. 1427). Behind is the Cappclla
del Beato Luca Belludi, with frescoes by Giotto Padooano (1382; retouched).
Farther on, on each side of the sanctuary, are six national chapels, recently
repainted.

The SANCTUARY (sdm. 31/: fr. for one or more), added to the church
in 1690, contains a collection of admirable ‘Goldsms'th‘s Work of the 15th
and 16th cent, including the marshal‘s baton of Gattamelnta, a reliquary
with the tongue of St. Anthony, 3 Gothic censer, and a credence plate.

The SACBISTY contains mosaics in wood (freely restored) executed
from Squarcione’s designs by Lor. and Mata]. da Leudinara. The marble
decoration is by Bart. Beltane (1469-72) —- The adjoining Cappeua del
Capitolo contains some fragmentary frescoes by Giotto.

The Gothic CLors'rans, entered from the 8. aisle, with their wide and
lofty pointed arches, contain many ancient tombstones.

In front of the church rises the equestrian ‘Statne of Gotta-
melita (Erasmo do Nomi; d. 1443), general of the army of the Re-
public of Venice in 1438-41, by Donatello, the first great equestrian
monument cast in bronze in Italy since antiquity, completed in

1453.

The Scuola del Santo (P1. D, 5), on the S. side of the Piazza
del Santo, the hall of the brotherhood of St. Anthony, is adorned with
seventeen frescoes (mostly repainted) from the life of the saint.
Three of them are by Titian (1511), who had settled in Padua
probably in consequence of the depressed state of Venice after the
war with the League of Cambrai (1508). Written catalogue. Best
light in the afternoon; fee 50 0.

By the entrance, to the right: ‘I. Titian, St. Anthony giving speech to
an infant to enable it to prove its mother‘s innocence (retouched); Ii. & III.
by Dom. Campaynola; IV. by an unknown early Paduan master; V. by a
pupil of Titian, VI. by Giov. Centurion VII. e IX. by Girol. del San/o-
VllI. 4t X. by Filippa do Verona,- XI. Titian, Jealous husband, who has
slain his wife; in the background St. Anthony promises her resuscitation
to the penitent (injured); ‘XII. Titian, A youth, who has struck his mother
in anger, punishes himself by cutting all his own foot, while the mother
calls upon St. Anthony Xlll. dz XIV. disﬁgured; XV. painted in 1775;
XVI. also by a later artist; XVll. by Dom. Campagnola.

The adjacent Cappelln Sen Giorgio contains twenty-one ad-
mirable frescoes by Jacopo d'Aoamo (p. 251) and Altichieri (1377)-

