462 Route 58. FLORENCE. b. Galleria

of ancient sculpture and modern painting. Thehall was constructed
by Bernardo Buontalcnti ,- the decorations are by Bemardino Poccetti.
In the centre are placed live celebrated marble sculptures: *Satyv
playing on the cymbal and pressing the scabellum or kmpezion with
his foot; the admirable head and the arms were restored by Michall
Angelo (‘9). *Group of the Wrestlers; the heads, which resemble
those of the Children of Niobe, do not belong-to the ﬁgures, and
the greater part of the legs and arms is modern; the right arm or
the victor is erroneously restored. *Medicz‘ Venus, found at Rome
in the 16th cent., and brought to Florence in 1680; the aﬁ‘ectedly
held ﬁngers and the inscription on the base are modern. The
*Grinder, a Scythian whet-ting his knife to ﬂay Marsyas, found at
Rome in the 16th cent. (from the same group as the Marsyas.
No. 156, mentioned on p. 461). The ‘Apollmo, or young Apollo
(freely restored).

PAINTINGS. To the right of the entrance: “1129. Raphael, Mr-
donna and Child with the goldtlnch (‘cardellino’), painted in Florenre
about 1507, pieced together again after a ﬁre in 1548.

The ‘Mndonnn del Cardellino’, the ‘Msdonna al Verde" at Vienna
and ‘La belle Jardiniere‘ in the Louvre form a group nearly allied in
plaint of conception. To the earlier and simpler representations of the

adonns, in which Mary and her Son alone appear, the child John the
Baptist has been added. This not only admits of the delineation of ad-
ditionnl features of child-life, but also makes possible the construction
of a regularly-arranged group. The two children, standing at the feet of
the Madonna, form a broad base for the composition, which tapers up-
wards easily and naturally to the head of the Virgin. This arrangement
ﬁrst found ex ression within the realms of sculpture, whence it was
eagerly ndopteg by the Florentine painters. — Springer.

1127. Raphael, The young St. John (executed by pupils); 112.3.
Franciabigio, Madonna del Pozzo, so called from the well in the
background; above, Fra Bartolomeo, 1130. Job, 1126. Isaith; I
*1123. Sebastiano del Piombo, Portrait, here called the Fornarinln
(comp. p. 511), dated 1512; '1120. Raphael (?), Female portrait,
formerly called Maddalena Doni, retouched; ‘197. Rubens, Is
bella Brandt, his ﬁrst wife; ‘287. Perugino, Francesco delle Opt
(1494).

l"1117. Titian, Venus of Urbino (probably the Duchess Ele
nora; p. 467), painted for Francesco della Revere, Duke of Urbln
about 1537.

‘Not utter the model of n Phryne, not yet with the thought of m,"
izing anything more sublime than woman in her fairest aspect,
Titian conceive this picture. Nature as he presents it here is young Ill
lovely, not transﬂgured into inetfeble noblesse, but conscious and trium-
phant without loss of modesty‘. — G. t .

3458. Heb. dd Piombo, Portrait of a nobleman (‘l'uomo smmslsto )v
1514 damaged).

*“ 131. Raphael, Pope Julius IL, the original (about 151?;
replica in the Pitti Palace, p. 516).

‘Thir striking ﬁgureI with the arms resting lightly on the chin the
deep-set eyes directed with keen scrutiny on the beholder, the com)?”

I

     
    
  
   

