128 Route 19. MILAN. a. Northern Quarters.

The transept contains the Gothic tombs of Beato Laniranco—Settala
(d. 1243), by Giovanni di Batduccio (p. 131), and the jurist Sal-
varlnus de Aliprandis (d. 1344), by one of the sculptors known as
the Campionen‘ (see p. 164).

To the N.W. of 'the Brera is the church of In Simpliciano
(P1. D, 3), a ﬁne Romanesque structure, repeatedly altered at a
later date; it contains a triumphal arch adorned with ‘putti’ by
Luini, and a Coronation of the Virgin by Borgognonc (restored; in
the apse). —— Farther to the N., in the Gorso Garibaldi (L), not far
from the Porta Garibaldi, is the Gothic double church of Santa
Maria Incoronata (Pl. D, 1), built in 1451—87. The Cappella Bossi
contains the tombs of Giovanni Tolentino (1517) and Archbishop
Gabriele Sforza, the former in the style of Andrea Patina. —- in
this vicinity, at the corner of the Via Alessandro Volta, which leads
to the Cimitero Monumentale (p. 142), is a seated bronze ﬁgure
of the distinguished engineer G. B. Piatti (1812-67), by Salvatore
Pisani (1894).

To the S.W. of the Brera lies Santa Maria del Carmine (Pl. D,
3, 4), a Gothic cruciform church of the 15th cent., but now entirely
modernized. In the right transept is an Adorationof the Child, by
Vine. Ci'uerchio. — The Pamzzo CLsmor (now a law—court), in the
adjacent Via Clerici (Pl. E, 4), contains an admirably-preserved
"Ceiling Fresco by G. B. Tiepolo in a handsome baroque room
(always open). .

b. From the Piazza. del Duomo and the Piazza de’ Mercanti
to the Gastello and the. Area della Face.

To the W. of the Piazza del Duomo, beyond the Via Carlo
Alberto (p. 120), lies the "l’iasla de’ Mercanti (Pl. E, 5), the
central point of the medieval city, and formerly provided with
the gates. In the centre of the Piazza is the building which
was formerly the Palazxo delta Ragione, a large ball erected in
1228-33 by the podesta (or mayor) Tresseno, to whom an eques-
trian relief was placed on the S. side with the inscription, ‘qui
solium struxit, Catharos ut debuit uxit’ (the Cathari were the Wal-
densians). — On the N. side of the piazza is the Palaszo dci Gian—
consulti, with_a tower, erected by Vinc. Seregni (1564; telegraph-
ofﬁce on the groundﬂoor); on the S. side are the Loggia degli Osii,
erected in 1316, and the Collegio dei Nobili, also by Vino. Seregni
(1564). — Through the Via de’ Ratti to the Biblioteca Ambmsiana,
see p. 133.

The Piazza de’ Mercanti is .adjoined on the N.W. by the new
PIAZZA Connusro (Pl. D, E, 5), commonly known as Piazza Emma,
from its elliptical shape. On the SE. side, beside the Via Oreﬂci,
are the handsome ofﬁces of the Societa dellc Assicurazioni Gemrali,
by Luca Beitrami, and on the S. side rises the new Exchange, with

