98 Route 18. NERVI. From Genoa

promontory of Portoﬁno, while it lies fully exposed to the 8.1%. wind.
Its mean winter temperature (52' Fahr.) is almost the same as that ol
the W. Riviera, but the rainfall at Nervi is more copious and the period:
of dry weather less prolonged. The relative moisture of the three wlnlei
months is 63 per cent.

Nervi, a small town with 6317 inhab., surrounded with grave:
of olives, oranges, and lemons, is much frequented in winter b:
English and Germans, as a health-resort. The Viale Vittorh
Emanuele, with its ﬁne palms, leads to the N. from the railway
station to the (3 min.) town, which is intersected from W. to E.b:
the highroad, here called Via. Cavour (to the W.) and Via del P021:
[to the E”) In the Via Cavour are the Giardino Pubblico (left) am
the Villa Croce (No. 118 ; right); in the Via del Pozzo are the beauti
ful Park of the Merciless Gropallo (entrance No. 55, fee 1/2 fr. ; some
times closed), with an old watch-tower on the Coast Promenade
and the Villa Serra. All these are noteworthy for their luxurian
vegetation (orange-trees, aloes, palms, etc.).

A feature of the place is the dust-free and sunny *Coast Prom-
enade, which runs along the shore above the rocky beach, and i:
protected by a lofty wall on the landward side. Pleasantly placeé
benches on the promenade and in the adjoining gardens afford rest
ing-places for patients who wish to be much in the open air without
taking active exercise.

The Via Belvedere, beginning at the Piazza Belvedere, about the middle
of the main street, ascends in curves to (3/4 hr.) the church of Sam‘ llario
halfway up the Monte Giugo (159411). On the way, and from beside in
church, we obtain admirable views as far as Portoﬁno on the E. ando
the Riviera di Ponente and the Ligurian Alps on the W. The tootpatl
(short-cut) may be chosen for the descent; or we may follow the hill it
the W. and descend via the (Imam: ﬂan Rocco (655 ft.) to the GiardiuI
Pubblico. — A rough footpath. beginning at the W. end of the town
ascends the Nerm' Valley to (3/; hr.) some mills. — The ascent of Man!
Face: (2730 ft; 21/2 hrs.) is also worth making.

The numerous tunnels that now follow sadly interfere with th
enjoyment of the view. — 9 M. Bogliasco; 91/2 M. Piece di San
101/2 M. Sari (65 ft.) is beautifully situated at the mouth of
pretty valley, up which a road runs to (13/; M.) Cancpa. We enjo
a noble survey of sea and valley from the viaduct which passe
high above the town and rivulet.

13 M. Rocco (modest inn; omnibus to Ruta 50 0.; carr. 2-3 in:

The “Roan rnou Hence no RAFALLO ascends the mountain-slope t
the S.E., with a View, to the right, of Camogii (p. 99) and the pol:
ulous coast. then skirts Home Emu (see p. 99). and reaches (21/21) Rut
(990 ft; 30!. d‘ltals'e, tpens. 6 fr.), 3. Village commanding a magniﬂcm
retrospect of the Gulf o Genoa. The road then traverses a tunnel Midi
long; curious view) and descends in wide bends viﬁ San Lorenzo delta Coll
(Flemish altar-piece of 1499 in the church) and through the fertile hi"
above SantaMargher-ita ( . 99) to the beautiful bay of (7 M.) Rapallo (p. 100

The ascent of the ' onto dl Portoﬂno (2010 ﬁt; guide not necessary
provisions required) is attractive. A good footpath, commanding ﬁne view
of both the Rivieras, gradually ascends from Ruta in ‘l. hr. to a £11581
post on the top of the N. ridge, where we follow the middle path to th
(1/; hr.) summit, with a former signal-station and a magniﬁcent surve

