300 Route 42. VENICE. d. From St. Mark to

by which we may proceed past the church of San Felice and the
two canals of the same name to the —

Palazao Giovanelli (Pl. F, 3; adm. only by special introduc-
tion), of the 15th cent., with sumptuously furnished modern apart-
ments, a handsome ball-room (with family-portraits), and a room
with modern pictures. In the boudoir, Giorgione, ‘Landscape with
ﬂgures(‘La Famiglia di Giorgione’); Antonella do. Messina, Portrait;
Marco Base/m, St. Jerome; Paris Bordone, Madonna and saints.

A few yards farther on is the OAuro SANTA FosCA (Pl. F, 3), with
the church of that name and a bronze Statue of Fm Paolo Sarpi
(1552-1623), the historian of the Council of Trent, by Marsili. The
monument, which is close to the bridge where Fra Paolo was set
upon by the papal assassins, was decreed by the Republic of Venice
in 1623 and erected in 1892 (see Dr. Alex. Robertson’s ‘Fra Paolo
Sarpi’, and T. A. Trollope's ‘Paul the Pope and Paul the Friar’).-—
Proceeding to the right from this point and crossing two bridges, we
reach the Gampo San Marziale, with the church of —

SAN MAncrnrarro (Pl. F, 2; open till 10 s.m.), which contains a
*Tobias and the Angel by Titian (ca. 1540; above the 1st altar on
the left), and Tintoretto’a last work, St. Marcilian with SS. Peter
and Paul (2nd altar to the right).

The more remote quarters of the city are best visited by gondola.
From the broad Sacca della Misoricordia I. G, 2), which is joined
on the N. by the Rio San Felice (see above , a side-canal, named the
Rio della Madonna dell’ Orto, leads to the left to the church of the —

*Hadonna dell’ Orto (P1. F, 2), also called San Cristoforo
Martin, with a beautiful late-Gothic facade and a curious tower.
Above the main portal are an Annunciation and a statue of St.
Christopher by Bart. Buon the Elder. The interior, with a ﬂat wooden
coiling supported by ten columns and modern painted decorations.
contains many good pictures.

Brain, in altar: (Jim da Cone liano, ‘St. John the Baptist with 8.5.
Peter, Mark Jerome, and Paul (1 9). Between the 3rd and 4th altar-s:
Monument 01' the Patrician Girolamo Cavasaa (17th cent.). At the 4th altar:
Daniel van Dyck, Martyrdom of St. Lawrence. Adjoining the dth altar:
Palms Veecht'o (7), St. Stephen surrounded by {our other saints. Above the
entrance of the sacristy, a sculptured bust of the Virgin (15th cent.)_ In
the SAcsrs-rr: Virgin and Child, half-ﬁgure found in a garden (whence
the name of the church), and restored by Giovanni do Sandie. — CHAPEL
on run Rronr of the choir: Girolamo da Santa Croce, SS. Augustine and
Jerome; memorial tablet to Tintoretto (d. 1594), who is buried here. --
In the 011013 (right) the Last Judgment (eloquently described and ex lained
in ‘Modern Painters‘. Vol. 2) a (1 (left) Adoration of the golden cal , lug:
works by ﬂntoretta. Over the high-altar an Annunciation, by Palm
Giovane, with surrounding pictures by Tintoreuo. — In the Larr Ana:
the Capp. Conterini, containing busts of six members of the celebrate
family of that name; among them those of the Cardinal and the Pro-
curator, the two in the middle on the left and ri ht respectively, by
Alessandro Vittoria; altar-piece by Tintoreuo, Miracle of LAgnes; 2nd chapel
on the left: (r.) Tintoretto, Presentation in the Temple. lth Chapel, t9,
the left by the entrance: Lor. Lotto, Pielh; atop. Bellini, Madonna (restored);

