to Santa Maria Novella. FLORENCE. 58. Route. 501

Opposite is the ’MOMDIENT or Lonnzo nr‘ Humor, who in contrast
to Giuliano is represented in profound meditation (hence called it pen-
n'sro); below it his sarcophagus. which contains also the body of Duke
Alessandro, assassinated in 1637, with °Btatues of Evening and Dawn
(Crepuseulo s Aurora). The original signiﬁcance which Michael Angelo
meant to convey before the siege of Florence by the allegorical ﬁgures
is somewhat obscure and artiﬁcial. The periods of the day represent as
it were the various members of the universe, which are sunk in grief at
the death of the heroes. The statues are not portraits, but ideal forms,
in which are reﬂected the two chief sides of a heroic nature, — self-
devoted absorption in noble designs, and confident energy. It is certain
that sorrow at the fate of his country, scourged by pestilence and war,
which delayed the completion of the statues, exercised a greet inﬂuence
on the master‘s chisel, though the theory that Michael Angelo was from
the beginning bent upon producing a purely political monument cannot
stand the test.

The remaining statues in the chapel, an unﬁnished Mndonna, by
Michael Angelo, and the two patron saints of the Medici, St. Damianusu.)
by Rajaello do llonlelupo, and St. Cosmos (r.) b Fro Giovanni Anviolo do
Montorsols' (who also assisted Michael Angelo in 583 on the statue of Giu-
liano), were originally intended for the mausoleum of Lorenzo the Magni-
ﬁcent and his brother Giuliano. These two members of the Medici family
are buried beneath the ﬁgure of the Madonna, in cofﬁns renewed in 1896.

The Via de’ Conti and the Via della Force (Pl. E, 4) lead to the
S. from the Piazza Madonna (p. 499) to theVia de’ Gerretani (p.498)
and the Piazza del Duomo. In _the Via Zanetti (No. 8) stands
the Palasxo Martelli. 0n the ﬁrst ﬂoor, above the staircase, is a
family coat—of—arms by Donatello. The small picture-gallery (no
idm.) contains marble statues of David (unfinished) and John
the Baptist by Donatello, a bust of a child by Ant. Rossellino, and
1130 several good paintings, among them the Conspiracy of Cstiline
oy Salvator Rosa. (N o. 2; replica of the painting mentioned at p. 516)
and a portrait of a woman by Paolo Veronese (42). — On the house
)pposite is a relief of the Madonna by Mina do Fiesolc.

In the Via Faenza, to the N. of the Piazza Madonna, stands (left) the,
30thic church of San Jacopo in Campo Corbolim‘ (Pl. E, 3; closed) founded
.n 1206, with a. colonnsded fore-court and funeral monuments of the 13th
and 14th centuries. Farther on to the right, between Nos. 86 and 38, is
the formEr refectorypf the convent of Sant‘ Onofrio (Pl. E, 2), with the
all-called Conacoio d1 Fuligno, a large fresco of the Last Supper, by a
pupil of Peruqs'no (1505) and some unimportant paintings from the Galleria
Feroni (adm. see p. .

In the Via. Nazionale (Pl. E, F, 2,3), Opposite the beginning of the
via dell‘ Ariento, is a large roup of the Madonna and saints, by Giovanni
delta Bobbin (I522). — The erealo Central: (Pl. E, F, 3), a market for pro-
visions (vettovaglie), in the Via dell‘ Ariento, was designed by Gino.
Menqom‘ (p. 120).

From the W. side of the Piazza Madonna the Via del Giglio
(Pl. E, 3, 4) leads to the Piazza (11 S. Maria Novella.

The Prszzs m Sam's Menu NOVBLLA (Pl. D, 3, 4) was the fre-
quent scene of festivals and games in former times. The Patio def
Cocchi, the chief of these, instituted in the reign of Cosimo I. in
1563, took place on the eve of the festival of St. John, and consisted
of a race of four four-horse chariots. Two obelisks of marble of 1608,
standing on brazen tortoises, perhaps by Giov. do Bologna, served

