Quarters. RAVENNA. 53. Route. 391

The Cnora is adorned with admirable ”lo-ates, which are however
inferior in style to those of earlier date in the Baptistery of the Orthodox
(p. 387) and to those of the Mausoleum of Galla Plac die (see below): Christ
enthroned on the globe, angels on both sides; on the right ﬁt. Vitalis,
and on the left 8t. Ecclesius with the church itself. Below (Ll limp.
Justinian with the Archbp. laximian and attendants, and (r.) the Empress
Theodora with the ladies of her court, both presenting oti‘erings. Above
these, under the windows, are represented Jerusalem (on the left) and
Bethlehem (on the right). Above, on the side-walls the {our Evangelist-s
sitting, beneath them, Jeremiah (on the left) and isaiah (on the ri ht)
standing. 0n the left in the centre, the three angels entertained by A ra-
ham, Sarah at the door, and sacriﬁce of Isaac. 0n the right, in the central
scene, an altar with bread and winet at the sides, the blood-sacriﬁce of
Abel and the bloodless otl‘ering of Melchisedech. Beside it, Moses as a
shepherd; above, Moses putting 08' his shoes before the burning bush. In
the archway, busts of Christ (repainted), the Apostles, and SS. Gervasius
and Protasius, sons of St. Vitalis. The beautiful Altar of translucent
Oriental alabaster, intended to be illnmined by lights placed within it,
was reconstructed in 1898. — 0n the right, at the entrance to the choir,
a 'Grsek Relief from a frieze in a temple of Neptune, representing his
throne with shells, trident, and genii; opposite to it, a modern copy.

In the AIBULA'IOII' are placed two early-Christian sarcophagi. — At
the NW. angle are traces of the old winding-staircase that led to the
Women‘s Gallery (Hats-0mm) in the N. tower. The gallery, which is
now reached by a modern staircase to the left of the choir, contains
numerous sketches illustrating the latest restoration of the church.

The custodian of San Vitale keeps the key of the —-

'Hamleum of Balls. Placidia (P1. 27; 0, 2), now Santi Nasario
e Celso, founded about 440 by that Empress (p. 386) beside the
church of Santa Croce, the anterior half of which was pulled down
in 1662. The church is in the form of a Latin cross, 49 ft. long,
41 it. broad, with a dome.

The Invasion (restored in 1898), the pavement of which is about 5 ft.
above the original level, is adorned with beautiful ‘lfosat’cs of the 5th cent.,
on a dark blue ground: in the dome, a Latin cross between the symbols
of the four Evangelists; in the four arches eight apostles, between whom
are doves drinking out of a vase (resembling the celebrated mosaic at
the Ca itol); under the vaulting of the right and left transept are the
other our apostles in gilded mosaic; beside them are stage at a spring.
Over the door is ‘Christ as a young shepherd, with long hair; opposite
is the triumph of Christian faith in which Christ (7) is committing to the
ﬂames on open book, probably heretical; the adjacent cabinet contains
the gos els. — Behind is the large marble Sarcophagus of Gallo Placi-
dia (d. , gutted by tire in 1577), in which, according to a mediuval
tradition, the Empress was interred in a sitting posture. The other marble
sarcophagi (also empty) are said to be those of the emperors Honorius
and Constantine III.

The church of Santa Maria Maggiore (P1. 17; C, 3), founded
by Archbp. Ecclesius (p. 390), was rebuilt in 1671, the only relics
of the origlnal church being the columns and the campanile.

San Giovanni Battista (Pl. D, 3; entrance Via Girol. Rossi),
erected by Baduarius for Gallo. Placidie CI), was almost entirely
rebuilt after 1683 by Pietro Gram. The substructions of the tower
and the interior columns belong to the original church.

In the N.E. corner of the town is the Rocco di Brancaleone
(Pl. F, 2), the old castle of Ravenns, built after 1457 by the Ven-
etians and partially taken down in 1736.

