80 Route to. GENOA. c. Via Balbi.

Duck, Three children with a dog (spoiled); Rubens, 'l’hilip IV. of Spain,
full-length; Rtbera, Heraclitus (weeping philosopher), Democrltus (longh-
ing philosopher); Van Dye}, Lady with two children (spoiled); Titian (7),
‘Ceres with Bacchus, nymph. and Cupid. — VII. Room. Unirnportant. —
VIII. Roost. To the left, Unknown Dutch Hatter (ca. 1500), Pieth; Guard
David (i), Flight into Egypt; Fr. Pour-bus, Garden 0! Flora; Nanak Alasta-
(171h cent"), Fete Ohunpétre. — IXs Boon. German School (attributed to
Lombard Sch.), Cruciﬁxion, with saints; Rubens, Ambrogio Bpinola. -—
The Linux! contains 7000 vols., including many specimens of early printing.

0n the left side, No. 4, is the ‘Paluzo Balbi-lonltrogo (Pl. D, 3),
begun early in the 17th cent. by Bart. Bianca, and enlarged in the
18th by Pier Ant. Corradi. It still belongs to the family who built
it, and after whom the street is named. The superb court, with its
Doric colonnades, affords a glimpse of the orangery. The interesting
Picture Gallery on the second ﬂoor is shown an introduction only.

SALA, or Luzon Roou, adorned like the others with ceiling-paintings
by Genoese artists. To the left: Van Dyck, Francesco Maria Balbi on
horseback (injured), the prototype of the equestrian portrait of Count
Olivares by Velazquez, now in the Prado Museum at Madrid. To the
right: Bern. Sir-out, Joseph interpreting the dreum; portraits by AM.
Bromine, etc. — PRIHO Senorro (to the right): Rubens, 'lufant Christ and
John the Baptist; Guido Rent, Lucretia, Cleopatra. Titian, ‘liudounn with
SS. Catharine, Dominic, and donors :_ ‘chsrming picture (about 1520), thrown
out of focus by abrasion, washing, and re aiming; but still pleasing on ac-
count of the grace of the attitudes and t e beauty of the landscape‘ ( Crone
t Cavalcaselle). (laud. Ferrari, Holy Family; You Dye: (t), Madonna
with the pomegranate (della Melsgraus). — Sncoxno Buorro: Van Dycl,
Equestrian portrait, Portraits of a gentleman and of a 'Lady of the Balhi
family. -— Tsnzo SALor'ro: Caravaggio, ‘Conversion of St. Paul, trivial in
conception, but masterly in execution; Master of the Death of the Virgin,
Holy Family and Adoration of the Shepherds; Guido Rent, 8t. Jerome. —-
Qusnro Baton-o: Gun-vino, Rescue 1! Andromeda; Erin del Vuyu, Four
ﬁgures of children; Jae. Banana, Market. —- Gstnsxu: Sandro Botticelli
(not Fiupptno Lippi), Communion of St. Jerome (perhaps a copy); Flemish
School (not Memling) Cruciﬁxion; ﬁlian (or more probably Han: son Calmr),
Portrait; Correggia i). Marriage of St. Catharine; Van Dyck, Holy Family;
Ferrarue School (attrib. to Correwio), St. George.

On the right side of the street, No. 5, is, the Palauo dell’
Universitd (Pl. D, 3), begun as a Jesuit college by Bart. Bianca in
1623, and created a university in 1812. The ’Court and stair-
case are probably the ﬁnest at Genoa. The second ﬂoor contains a
library, a natural history museum, and an aula with six allegorical
bronze statues and reliefs by Giovanni da Bologna. A staircase
loads hence to the high-lying Botanical Garden of the University
(ring at the iron gate). Adjoining the upper entrance. in the Oarso
Dogali (p. 85), is the Botanic Institute, founded in 1897.

On the right is San Carlo, with sculptures by Algardi (1650).

Left, No. 10, Palaszo Beale (Pl. 0, 3), erected about 1650
by the Lombard architects Franc. Cantane and Gioa. Any. Falcons
for the Durazzo family, and extended in 1706 by Carlo Fontana
of Rome. It was purchased by the royal family in 1817, and restored
in 1842. The palace contains handsome staircases and balconies (tine
views), and is sumptuously furnished (adm., see p. 70). The pictures
and antiquities are of no great value.

