52 Route 12. VEBRES. From Turin

49 M. Pont-Bt-Hertin. The village (1030 ft; Rosa Rana,- Ca-
vallo Bianca), with a mined castle, foundries, and a Roman bridge
over the Lye, is picturesquely situated at the mouth of the deep Val
Gressomy, 1 M. from the station (see Baedeker’s Switzerland).

We next cross the Lye and follow the broad valley, ﬂanked
by ﬁne mountains , to (501/2 M.) the prettily-situated Donna:
(1066 ft; Rosa). The train now ascends a rocky deﬁle and passes
through a tunnel under Fort Bard (1282 ft.), which was built in the
beginning of the 11th cent. and was taken in 1242 by Amadeus IV.
of Savoy after a long siege, while in May, 1800, before the battle of
Marengo, it was gallantly defended by 400 Austrians, who kept the
French army in check for a week. The train then crosses the Dora
to (62 M.) Hone-Bard, beautifully situated. 0n the left opens the
Val di Camporciero, or Champorcher, with its ﬁne rocky peaks (p. 58);
to the N.W. towers the Becca di Luuney (11,500 ft). — At Cam-
pagnola the train crosses the Dora and intersects a promontory of
debris. —- 55 M. Arms, with a ruined castle.

561/3 M. Verrée. The village (1207 ft; Italia; Ecu dc France),
with 1277 inhab. and the old castle of Rocca, belonging to the
former Counts of Challant (built in 1.390, refortiﬂed in 1636), lies
picturesquely at the entrance of the Val Chauant, 3/4 M. from the
station. Opposite, on the right bank of the Dora, lies Issogne, also
with an interesting chéteau of the Counts of Challant (end of the
16th cent.). To the N.E., between the Challant and Gressoney
valleys, towers the rocky pyramid of the Becca di Vlou (9370 ft.).

The valleys of Aosta and Sues (p. ‘1) were alternately occupied by
the Franks and the Longobards, and belonged to the Francouian Empire,
in consequence of which a South French dialect (tongue ealddlaine) still
predominates in these Italian districts. The village of Bard (below the fort)
is the point of transition from Italian to French.

Above Verrés the valley expands, but soon contracts again. Ex-
tensive vineyards are passed. We cross the Evangon and the Dora.
On the slope to the left is the village of Champ dc Pras, lying at
the entrance of the Val Chalame, the torrent of which has overspread
the valley of the Dora with detritus. Farther on lofty walls of rock
rise to the left. -— Near (60 M.) Montjovet appear on the right,
high above us, the extensive mine of the thirteen of Montjovet or
St. Germain. Tunnel. The train crosses the Dora by means of a long
viaduct and enters the picturesque ‘Deﬂle of Iontjovet, the grand-
est part of the line, with a succession of tunnels and buttresses of
masonry, and the brawling Dora far below.

63 M. St. Vincent (1415ft.). To the right, 1 M. above the station,
at the end of the deﬂle and the foot of Mic. Zerbion (8925 ft.), lies the
village (1886 ft. ; Grand Hdtel de la Source, with hydropathic; Lion
d’Or; Romc; Corona). — Two short tunnels. Loftlly perched on the
left is the old castle of Used, belonging to the Counts of Challant.

641/2 M. Chitillon (1807 ft; *Hot dc Londres, R. 3% fr. ; ‘Hﬁt.
Pens. Suisse; Hét. dos Alpes; Caﬂ'é~Ristorante Alpine, beyond the

