506 Route 58. FLORENCE. 9. Santa Trinitd

possession of the monks of Vallombrosa (p. 631) from the end of
the 11th cent. onwards. In the 13-15th cent. it was renewed in
the Gothic style from plans ascribed to Niccolo Pisano (i), but it was
modernized by Buontalenti in 1593 and furnished with its present
facade.

The Interior, restored since 188! in the'style of the 14th cent, con-
sists of nave and aisles with transept, and is ﬂanked with chapels at the
sides and adjoining the high-altar. — Branr Arsu. 4th Chapel (generally
closed): Frescoes by Lorenzo Monaco; Annunciation kaltar-piece, b the
same. 5th Chapel: Fine marble altar by Benedetto do Rooumno (155‘: -—
LIFT Arsn. 8rd Chapel: Tomb of Giuliano Davanzati (d. it“), in the
style of an early-Christian sarcophagus. 5th Cha el: Wooden statue of
the Magdalen, by Destderl'o do Seltignano (completed y Benedetto do Kaine).

Cnora WALL. The 2nd Chapel to the left contains the ﬁne ‘Ionunut
of Benozzo Federighi, Bishop of Fiesole (d. iibO), by Luca delta Rom
completed in 1457 (formerly is San Pancrazio). The recumbent ﬁgure of
the deceased and the border of painted and glazed garlands of fruit are
especially admired. — In the spandrels of the Orion are four {rescou at
the Patriarchs by Aleuta Baldom‘nem. —- The Carranza nn‘ Sassn-n-r, the
second on the right from the high-altar, is adorned with ‘Frescoes (some
much i ured) from the life of St. Francis by Dom. Ght‘rlandqjo, dating
from 1 , and presents a model of consistent ornamentation. The frescoes
are in double rows. We begin with the upper row, to the left: 1. St
Francis banished from his father‘s house; 2. Pope Honorius conﬁrms the
rules of the order; 3. St. Francis in presence of the Sultan. 0n the right:
1. St. Francis receiving the stigmata; 2. Resuscitation of a child of the
Spini family; 3. Interment of the saint. The donors near the altar and
the sibyls on the ceiling are also by Ghirlandajo. The altar-piece (Adorn-
tion of the Child) is a modern copy of Ghirlandajo. At each side an
handsome tombs of the Sassetti by dint. do Sawallo. —— In the Sacristy.
formerly the Chapel of the Strozzi. is a monument of Onofrio Strom'.
father of Palla Strozzi, by Piero dt' Nt'cc. Lumber-ti (ili’i).

Opposite the church, at the corner of the Borgo Santi Apostoli
(p. 448), rises the Palasso Bartolini-Salimbeni (now Hotel du Nord‘,
a late—Renaissance building by Baccio d’Agnolo (1520). — Also to
the left, near the Arno, is the imposing Palazno Spini (P1. D, 5),
now usually called the Pal. Ferroni, dating from the beginning of
the 14th cent, and still retaining the aspect of a mediaval strong-
hold. It was restored in 1874 and is the headquarters of the ‘Ciroolo
Filologloo’ (p.435) and of the Florence Section of the Italian Alpine
Club. —- Ponte S. Trinitd, see p. 508.

Proceeding along the bank of the Arno from the S. side of the
Piazza S. Trinits by the pretty Limosnno Consm (Pl. D, 5, 4),
we pass on the right (No. 2) the Palasso Masetti, formerly Fm
buoni, where the dramatist Alﬂeri resided and died Oct. 9th,
1803). — No. 10 in the same street is the Palauo Corsini l. D, 4),
remodelled by Pier Francesco Silvam', with a magniﬁcent staircase
by Ant. Fem‘ (1695). It contains a valuable Picture Gallery (adm,
see p. 437; entrance at the back of the court, to the right, lee 1/, fr. ;
lists of the pictures furnished).

Ann-Roots: Two pictures in grisaille (Life of John the Baptist) by
Andrea do! Sarto (t). — I. Boon: 7. Don» Bout (i), Nymph and Satyr
(original in the Pitti Gallery, p. 514); 15. Luca Giordano Venus healing the

wounds of Eneas; 21, 2t. Sustamans Ferdinand II. aé‘ ledici, Unknown
portrait. — II. Roux: Battle—pieces by Borgovnone (47, 54) 3nd Sal-W

