 

1 viii STEAMERS.

general «season tickets are issued only at some of the principal
stations (such as Florence, Milan, Turin, Bologna, Genoa, Pisa, and
.Leghorn), but a form of application may be obtained at any station.
The applicant must pay 1 fr. when ordering the ticket and at the
same time furnish an unmounted photograph of himself. The ticket
is issued at the chief stations 2 hrs., at the smaller stations about
24 hrs. after the application.

Luooaos. No luggage is allowed free, except small articles
taken by the passenger into his carriage; the rate of charge is 4V2 c.
for 100 kilogrammes per kilometre. Travellers who can conﬁne their
impediments to articles which they can carry themselves and take into
the carriages with them will be spared much expense and annoyance.
Those who intend to make only a short stay at a place, especially
when the town or village lies at some distance from the railway,
had better leave their heavier luggage at the station till their return
(dare in dcposito, or depositors; 5 e. per day for each piece, min-
imum 10 c.) or forward it to the ﬁnal destination. At small stations
the traveller should at once look after his luggage in person. — The
luggage-ticket is called to sconlrino. Porters (facchtm‘) who convey
luggage to and from the carriage are entitled to 6-20 0. per package

by tariff; and attempts at extortion should be ﬁrmly resisted.

As several robberies of passengers‘ luggage have been perpetrated in
Italy without detection, it is as well that articles of great value should
not be entrusted to the safe-keeping of any trunk or portmanteau, however
strong and secure it may seem (comp. p. xiv). — Damaged trunks may be
secured by leaden seals (piombare) for 5 c. each package.

The enormous weight of the large trunks used by some travellers not.
infrequently causes serious injury to the porters who have to handle them.
Heavy articles should therefore always be placed in the smaller packages.

Italian Balawn Rssraunan'rs, especially those at frontier-stations,
leave much to he desired. Luncheon~haskets (34 fr.) may be obtained
at some of the larger stations.

Passengers by night-trains from the larger stations may hire pillows
(mom, Mandate; 1 In, for abroad 2 fr.). These must not be removed
from the compartment.

Steamers. The time-tables of the steamer-rout es are given in
the larger railway-guide mentioned at p. xvi; but changes are so
frequent that enquiries on the spot are always advisable.

0n the ITALIAN Laxas the tickets are usually issued on board
the steamer. Passengers embarking at intermediate stations receive
checks which they show on purchasing their tickets. There is no
extra charge for embarking or disembarking at small-boat stations.
The railways issue tickets including the lake-journey. Return-
tickets do not usually permit of the journey being broken. On
Sundays in summer the boats are frequently crowded by excur—
sionists. — The steamers occasionally leave the smaller stations as
much as 10 min. in adv'ance of the scheduled times, but they are
much more frequently late.

In the proper season a steamer trip on the Isdtterransan, especially

between Genoa, Spezia, and Leghorn, or on the Adriatic, between Venice
and Trieste, is a very charming experience. Tickets should be taken in

