at. SS. Annunsiuta. FLORENCE. 58. Route. 483

cloisters. that in the centre to the church, that on the right to the
chapel of the Pucci, founded in 1300, and restored in 1615. Over
the central door is a mosaic by Davide Ghirlandajo, representing
the Annunciation (1609).

The Anumox Cona'r is adorned with 'Frescoes by Andrea del Sarto
and his pupils, which are now protected from the weather by a glass
colonnade (opened by the sacristan; 30450 c.). To the left of the entrance
to the church are two earlier frescoes: Adoration of the Shepherds by
Aussie Baldovtssm (1460); Investiture of Filippo Benizzi founder o the
order, by Cosimo Ito-um (14.76). Then to the left follow ve 'Frescoes by
Andrea del Sarto.- Son Filippo clothing the sick (beside it, bust of Andrea,
by 0. Coach-i), Gamblers struck by lightning while mocking S. Filippo;
Cure of a possessed woman; Dead man raised to life by the corpse of
S. Filippo; Boy healed by the saint‘s robe. ‘Carried away by his feeling
for harmony of colour, and charmed whenever he could realize a vague
and vsporous twilight of tone (see especially the Death of the Saint), Andrea
was unable to combine that appearance with absolute neutral contrasts . . . .
but the balance was almost restored by the facility with which he obtained
transparence, gay colours, and smoothness in the melting of tints into each
other . — 0. I“ C. — These paintings were executed by A. del Sarto while
still young (ca. 1510); he appears as a finished master in the ‘Frescoes
on the other side: Arrival of the Magi. executed with a still more running
hand (than the following) but with less chastened sentiment, the ﬁgures
characterised by a self-conﬁdent swing (a. if: 0.). and the Nativity of Mary,
painted in 1514 ‘on the highest level ever reached in fresco‘. In the right
foreground of the former, fscing the spectator, is a. portrait ofJac. Sansovino,
while the painter himselfis shown pointing towards the front. The digniﬁed
woman in the centre of the other fresco is A. del Sarto’s wife. — The
remaining frescoes are by Del Ssrto‘s contemporaries and pupils : Franciabtm‘a,
Nuptials of Mary (1513), damaged by the painter himself in his choler at
its premature uncovering by some of the monks; Ponlormo, Visitation (1010);
Reno, Assumption (1517).

The Interior is adorned with a large ceiling-painting of the Assumption
)y Giro Fer-rt (1670). To the left, before the 1st chapel, under a kind of
iano y of later date, is the Cappeua delta Verm’m Annuntata, erected in
[MB- ‘2 by Payne dt Lapo' Portfm'am‘ from Micheloua‘s design, and sump-
;uously decorated with silver, gold, and gems by the Medici; it contains
I ‘mirnoulous’ picture of the Virgin, a fresco of the 13th century. —-
ird Chapel. Over the altar, Andr. del Gastayna, 5t. Jerome and the Trinity
fresco - admirableperspective); adjacent, frescoes by Al. Allori. —5th Chapel,
Pietro Peruvian, Assumption. — The large Rornnna or I‘ll Cnon, adorned
with frescoes by Volterrauo (1683), is peculiar, though its eﬁ‘eci has been
nomewhat marred by the later baroque decorations. It was begun in 1461
3y Htchelona and completed in 11.76 from designs by Leon Baltista Alberti.
[‘0 the left at the entrance is the monument of Angelo Mani-Medici by
Francesco da Sangallo (1546). In the 3rd chapel is a Madonna with saints,
)y Pietro Peruvian. The 5th chapel contains a cruciﬁx and six reliefs
'rom the Passion by Giovanni do Bologna and his pupils, with the monument
)f the former. — Over an altar to the left in the right transept is a Pietis
1y Baceio Bandinells', who is buried beneath it.

A door in the left transept leads to the Cloisters. Adjoining this door,
in the outside, opposite the entrance from the street, is a ‘Fresco by Andrea
lei Sarto, the Madonna del Sacco (1525), remarkable for the calm and
lignitied composition, and the beauty of the colouring, which is still
liecernible in spite of its damaged condition. Below it is the monument
if the Falconieri, the founders of the church. 0n the same side is the
:ntrance to the chapel of the guild of painters (Cappella ds’ San Lucas:
=10led), adorned with paintings by G. Vasari, Pontormo, and others, and
:ontaining the tomb of Benvenuto Cellini. — In the Second Cloisters (opened
>y the sacristan), to the left, is an admirable terracotta statue of John the
iaptist, by Mtchelano.

3i “

f
h.

