140 Route 19. MILAN. d. Southern Quarters.

The Via Carlo Alberto (Pl. E, 5, 6), mentioned at p. 128, passes
a few paces to the E. of Sant' Alessandro. From it we turn to the
SE. into the 00330 Dr Pon'ra Roxana (electric car, see p. 114),
which leads to the -gate of that name. We follow this street as in
as the church of San Nazaro (P1. F, 6, 7), with the masterpiece
of Bernmdino Lanim‘ (1546), a large fresco representing the ‘Mar—
tyrdom of St. Catharine, painted in imitation of the similar picture
in the Brera by Lanini’s master Gaud. Ferrari (No. 107); a hand-
some carved Gothic altar; and ancient Swiss stained—glass windows
to the right of the main entrance. A side-entrance admits to the
octagonal sepulchral chapel of the Trivulzi, built by Girolamo della
Porta (1519). —— To the N.E., in the Via dell’ Ospedale, is the —

*Ospedale Haggiore (Pl. F, 6), a vast and remarkably tine brick

’ structure , begun in the Renaissance style in 1456 by Antonio
Filarctc of Florence, continued in the Gothic style by Guinifortt
Solari and other Lombard architects, and not completed by Ricchini
till after 1624. It contains no fewer than nine courts. The extensive
principal court, surrounded by arcades, is by Bicchim' [17th cent);
the court to the right of it is ascribed to Bramante. The ediﬁce is
entirely covered externally with terracotta, in a style frequently
observed in other Milanese buildings, but its facade, with its rich
window—mouldings, is superior to any other structure of the kind at
Milan. In the chapel are two paintings by Francesco dc Vico, con-
taining portraits of Francesco and Bianca Maria Sforza, the founders
of the hospital.

From the back of the hospital the Via San Barnaba leads to the
notonda (Pl. H, 6; open on Thurs. a Sun., 10-4; adm. 50 c.), built by
Arr-igone and dedicated by the Viceroy Eugene Beauharnais in 1&9 u a
Pantheon Nationals. It now contains a large collection of portraits of bene-
factors of the Ospedale Maggiore, from the 16th cent. to the present day. --
In the Via Guastalla, the ﬁrst cross-street of the Via San Barnaba, is the
Synagogue (Pl. G, 6), by Luca Beltrami (1892).

A little to the N. of the Ospedale Maggiore is the Piazw Santo
Stefano, with the simple Renaissance church of that name (P1. F, 6).
—— Hard by is the Piazza del Vcrzierc (P1. F, G, 5), used as a vege-
table-market. We may now return to the W. by the Via Tenaglie
and the Piazza Fontaua (Pl. F, 5) to the Piazza del Duomo, or we
may follow the Via Cesare Beccaria to the N. to the Palazzo di
Giustizia (Pl. F, 5), a baroque structure by Seregni, with a courtyard
of later date (1605); on the portal is a tablet commemorating Silvio
Pellico and the other Italian patriots committed by the Austrians
to the fortress of Spielberg in 1821 (comp. p. 43) Adjacent is
the Piazza Beccaria, with a statue of Beccarirz (p. 123) by Grandi,
erected in 187i. —— The Via Cesare Beccaria ends on the N. at the
Corao Vittorio Emanuele.

