498 Route 58. FLORENCE.

"At. From the Piazza del Duomo to San Lorenzo and Santa. Hari-

Novella.

From the entrance of the Via dc’ Cerretani, which leads straight
from the Piazza del Duomo (p. 450) to Santa Maria Novella, the Borgo
S. Lorenzo runs to the right to the PMZA SAN Lonnnzo (P1. F, 4}
To the left in this square is the church of S. Lorenzo, and at its
N. end, near the Via de’ Ginori (p. 490), is a statue of Giovanni
dcllc Bands Nere (p. 442), by Baccio Bandinelli (1540), on s
pedestal (‘Base di San Lorenzo’), with reliefs referring to Giovanni‘s
victories.

’San Lorenzo (Pl. E, F, 3, 4), founded and consecrated by St. Am-
brose in 394 and restored in the 11th cent., is one of the most
ancient churches in Italy. In 1426 the Medici and seven other fun-
ilies began a complete reconstruction of the church on a large:
scale from the designs of Filippo anellcschi, who restored the
form of the early-Christian basilica, consisting of a nave and aisles
terminated by a transept, the nave being covered with a. ﬂat ceiling.
and the aisles with groined vaulting. He then added low chapels
resembling recesses on each side. Over the columns (14 in number.
and two pillars) he replaced the ancient architrave which had been
removed in the middle ages, and now support the ﬁne projecting
arches. The cupola, which rests upon the cross without the inter—
position of a drum, was added by Brunelleschi's successor, Ant
Manctti (d. 1460). The high—altar was consecrated in 1461. The
inner wall of the facade is by Michael Angelo, who also added the
New Sacristy (p 500) and the Laurentian Library. His design for
the outside of the facade (1516) was unfortunately never executed,
but is preserved in the Galleria Buonarroti (p. 480). The com-

pletion'of the facade in now contemplated.

At the end of the Brain Anne is the Monument of the painter Pictu-
Benvenuti (d. 1844), said to be by Thoroaldun U). — Some of the bats-relief.I
on the two pulpits are by Donatello (late work) and his pupils Darlene
and Beltane. — incur Tnansar'r, on the altar, a marble tabernacle by
Duiden'o do Seltignano. —- A simple inscription beneath the dome, at the
foot of the steps leading to the Cnorn, marks the tomb of Cosimo the Elder.
selected by himself, in which he was laid on Aug. 2nd, 1‘64, according to
his own request without any funereﬂ pomp. The slab is a copy of an
original by Vmocchio. The Signoria honoured Cosimo‘s memory by passing
a. decree which gave him the title of ‘Pnter Patrim‘. Donatello is buried is
the same vault. —- In the 2nd chapel to the left of the choir the monument
of a Countess Hoitke Ferrari-Corbelli, by Dupré, 1864. —- e square ‘Ow
SACBKB'I'Y, to the left, built in 1421-28 by Fit. Brunelleachs', is one of the
earliest achievements of Renaissance architecture. It is covered with s
pallygonal dome, the projection with the altar having a small ilat done.

e admirable plastic decoration (now whitewashed) is by Donatello: above
the bronze doors, which are adorned with reliefs, are two saints, benuth
a frieze of angels” heads; in the lunettes are the Evangelism and on the
spandrels: are'Lscenes from the life of John the Baptist (all in stucco).
Donatello also executed the beautiful terracotta bust of St. Lawrence on
the' entrance-wall. “The marble monument of Giovanni d‘Averudo dc‘
Medici and Piccarda Busri, the parents of Cosimo, beneath the table in the
centre, are by Bantam; (1429). Beside the entrance is the simple and

 

 

