of the Arno. FLORENCE. 58. Route. 519

(p. 520) and aﬂ'ording beautiful views. — The alley at the NE. corner of
the Ne tune basin leads to the CAMEO Banana“ (Pl. D, 7), from the lofty
roof 0 which a ﬁne ‘View of the city is obtained (fee 16-20 c.).

We now return to the Basin of Neptune and follow the alley lead-
ing from its KW. corner to a lawn, also ati'ording a ﬁne View. We may
descend direct iron: this point, but it is better to follow the Ydoualooe to
the S.W., a beautiful cypress avenue adorned with statues and leading
past a small orangery to a charming Basin (la Varea dell‘ Irolotto; Pl. B, 7).
In the centre, on an sland planted with ﬂowers, rises a fountain surmounted
by a colossal statue of Oceanus and ﬁgures of three river-gods by Gio-
vanni da Bologna. The surrounding walks are chieﬂy embellished with
‘genre‘ works. To the right of the Oceanus basin a broad path, parallel
with the palace, is reached, which leads paet alemon-houae to the prin-
cipal entrance. Another exit, reached by a side-path diverging to the left,
immediately beyond the lemon-house and near a fountain with Bacchus
on the lion, leads into the Via Romana.

A little to the B. of the above-mentioned basin are the Real: Scuden‘e,
or Royal New (Pl. B, 7, 8), containing a collection of ancient state-carriages
(adm. 10-3; permesso in the ‘Amminietraaione‘ of the Pal. Pitti, see p. ‘87).

At Via Romans 19, to the W. of the Pitti Palace, is the luleum of
Natural Science (Museo di Fisica e Storm Naturole; Pl. 0, 6; adm.,
,see p. 437), founded by Leopold 1., and since greatly extended.

The public museum is on the Sworn) Faooa; the zoological collections
occupy about 20, the botanical 8 rooms. There is also an admirable ana-
tomical collection in 12 rooms, consisting chieﬂy of preparations in wax,
by Clemente Susim‘ and his successors the two Calomuoh' and Calami.

0n the Finer Fnooa (r.) is situated the Truanna or Gauaao, inaugur-
ated in 1841, on the occasion of the assembly at Florence of the principal
scholars of Italy, constructed by Giuseppe Harlem and adorned with
paintings by Giuseppe Bennett, Luigl Subutelli, etc., iliustrating the history
of Galileo, Volta, and other men of science; also a statue of Galileo by
A. Couch, numerous busts ot‘ celebrated men, and mosaics in the avement,
designed by Sabatcllt, and executed by Gino. Bau. Silveun'. long the
walls are six cabinets containing Galileo‘s telescope and other instru-
ments of historic interest.

Opposite stands the ancient church of San Felice (Pl. 0, 6),
with a line porch, rebuilt in 1457 by Michelaszo Ci): 1st altar to the
left, Filippino Lippi (P), Three Saints; 2nd altar to the right, Giov.
delta Robbia (?), Pieta, a coloured relief in clay; above, opposite
the high—altar, Giotto, Cruciﬁxion.

No. 9, Piazza San Felice, is the (Jam Guidi, in which Robert and
Elizabeth Barrett Browning lived from 18i8 till the death of the latter
in 1861 (tablet with Italian inscription). See her poem, ‘Casa Gnidi Win-
dows‘. The house now belongs to their son, Mr. R. Barrett. Browning,
who was born here.

Immediately adjoining the Ponte allc Grazia (Pl. E, F, 6, 7;
p. 445] is the Piazza de’ Mozzi, in which (No. 6) rises the Palazzo
Tonigiani (P1. E, 7), erected in the 16th cent. by Baccio d'AgnoLo
and others, but disﬁgured by alterations. [The Giardino Torrigiani
(Pl. A, 5, 6). in the Via de’ Serragli, is closed at present]

Near the Pal. 'l‘orrigiani begins the VIA vn’ BARDI (Pl. D, E, 6,7),
which takes its name from one of the most powerful medizeval
families in Florence. Immediately to the right is the small church of
SANTA LUCIA DE! MAGNOLI [P]. E, 7), containing a relief by the Bella
Robbia above the door, and an Annunciation by Jac. del Sellaio

