mum. FLORENCE. 58. Route. 439

the mirror of the lake, so rests on this lovely ground the still more lovely
.Florence, with its everlasting works and its inexhaustible riches. From
the bold airy tower of the palace, rising like a slender mast, to Brunei-
leschi‘s wondrous dome of the Cathedral, from the old house of the Spini
to the Pitti Palace, the most imposing the world has ever seen, from the
garden of the Franciscan convent to the beautiful environs of the Cascine
all are full of incom arable grace. Each street of Florence contains a world
of art; the walls 0 the city are the calyx containing the fairest ﬂowers
of the human mind; - and this is but the richest gem in the diadem
with which the Italian people have adorned the earth.‘ (Leo).

Florence (18011), Italian Firenze, formerly Fiorenza, from the
Latin Flormtia, justly entitled ‘la bella’, is situated in 43°46' N.
latitude, and 11° 21’ E. longitude, on both banks of the Arno, an in-
signiﬁcant river except in rainy weather, in a charming valley of
moderate width, picturesquely enclosed by the spurs of the Apen-
nines, the highest visible peak of which (Monte Moreno, p. 5'26)
rises to the N. On the S. the heights rise more immediately from
the river, on the N. they are 3—4 M. distant, while towards the
N .W., in the direction of Prato and Pistoja, the valley expands con-
siderably. The sudden transitions of temperature which frequently
occur here are trying to person in delicate health. The pleasantest
months are April, May, and the ﬁrst half of June, September,
October, and November. The winter is disproportionately cold,
the mean temperature of January being about 40° Fahr.; July
(mean 78°; maximum in 1897, 103°) and August are very hot, and
colds are most dangerous at this season. — The drinking—water of

Florence, mainly ﬁltered water from the Arno, is not considered
very wholesome.

During the struggle for the creation of a ‘United Italy’ Florence
was for a short time (1864-71) the capital of the country; but this
honour, though it gave a momentary stimulus to the progress of the
city, ultimately (1878) resulted in a financial collapse, from which it
has only now recovered. As early as the 15th cent. Florence contained
90.000 inhab., in 1881 it had 168,915, and in 1901 the number was
198, 408. The Florentines have ever been noted for the vigour of
their reasoning powers and for their pre-eminence in artistic talent.

History. According to recent discoveries, there seems to have been
a settlement on the present site of Florence at a. very early date (in the
so-called ‘Villanova period‘). This did not attain any great importance
until about B.C. 187, when the Roman Via Cassia was prolonged to Arezzo,
Florentia, and Bologna. In 3.0. 90 Florentla‘and Fessulaa (Fiesole) received
the Latin municipal franchise, and a decade later, under Sulla, they be-
:ame military colonies. The Roman Florence, which lay near the Arno,
to the N. of the present Ponte Vecchio, possessed a Capitol, a Temple of
the Triad (Jupiter, Juno, and Minerva), Thermal. for men and women,
and an Amphitheatre.

Only the scantiest records of its history during the early middle ages are
.0 be found; but it is tolerably certain that until the death of Countess
datilda (p. 398) in 1115 Florence remained a place of little importance.
to earliest chronicler deﬁnitely dates the rise of its prosperity from 1125,
n which year Fiesole was destroyed and its inhabitants transplanted to
I‘lorenoe. But by the beginning of the following century its success in
var-fare and its great and rapidly growing manufactures had already
ransformed it into the most important community in Central Italy. The

