484 Route 58. FLORENCE. a. Museo

The Via della Sspienza leads hence to the Piazza San Marco
(see p. 490).

In the Palaaao delta Crocetta (Pl. H, 4), Via della Colonna 26,
a straggling building erected in 1620, are the 'Iuaeo Areheologico
and the Comm-ion or Tarns'rnv (director, Can. Milam‘; adm., see
p. 437). Most of the objects have explanatory labels. Catalogue for
the Etruscan Topographical Museum (1898), 31/2 fr ~ old catalogue

' I

for the Egyptian Museum, by Schiaparelli, in the second room.

0n the Gnouxn Fnoon is the Btrnaoan Topographical Inaoum, formed
in 1897. ——B.ooms I-IlI. Tons! orVn-rnnoma, the present Colonna (8-6th cent
13.0.). — Room 1, entrance-wall: tomb containing a. skeleton; above, a
plan of Vetulonia. Also relics of ﬁre-tombs, urns in the form of huts (in
the middle), cinerary urns, and slabs for rooﬂn the tombs (left wall). -
Room 2 contains remains from circular graves (7 ‘th cent.) In the middle
are remains of a bronze receptacle for the bones, with silver reliefs
(model beside it); bronze ship (object unknown). Entrance-wall, to the
right, bronze articles; to the left, beautiful gold bracelets in filigree work
(from the East), amber chain. Rear-wall: silver cup, Greek weapon.
ornaments for horses. Exit-waﬂ:
silver beaker, of Oriental mannfact

N ure; vessels of various kinds, frag-

ments of silver ornaments. -— Roond

XII Articles from tumuli (‘l-Gth cent). To

the right, remains of primitive stt

Vii X1 tues in soft sandstone, copies of m-
_ ‘— bossed bronze ﬁgures. In the middle.

remains of beautiful gold ornamelu
(imported). Entrance~wall: Coins
from Vetnionia and Popnlonia (Pn-
pluna).
Room IV. Vonsmu (0mm and
" Balsam, to which the community
was transferred after the destruction
of the mother-town in 3.0. 280). la
the middle, stele with inscription.
The cabinets by the rear-wall hold
the contents of three graves: to the
right, large bronze urn ; in the middle.
remains of an ivory casket, vase with
the feats of Theaens by the Athen-
ian painter Kachryls‘on, the oldest
Panatheneie prise amphora but one
(Athena and youthwith fillet); to the
left bronze armour. — To the right
of e window, fine mould for acre
teria (adjacent a plaster-cast).
Room V. Con-roan ann Axum.
To the left of the entrance, vase!
from Cortona. —— To the right 0!
the entrance, fragments of red-glued
pottery (ﬁrstine "“3; twgrhperfect
Via. deZLa e1. vases an two moul in e g as:
P gala, case in front of the window (dance
and banquet). — In the middle, oh-
jeets found in a necrog‘olis of unknown name (terracotta candelabrnm; old
coin of Volterra). -— o the left of the entrance, four bronte candelabra.
'Boom VI. Cwsrma (0mm). Entrance-wall: cinerary urns with pol“
trait-like heads. To the left are two very realistic tomb-atatuettu of
"013°"- - The Elms-ease in front of the window contains death-Innate
9‘ 015V and NOME- — Rear-wall: two large urns, one with a man and

  
 

 

(.‘nlonna,

 

 

 

 

 

drlln.

 

V 1'

 

 

 

 

 

