54 Route 12. AOSTA. From Turin

161/2 ft. high, which are preserved almost in their entire extent,
while on the S.W. side the ancient facing and cornice are still
in situ.

From the market-place (Piazza Carlo Alberto), where the main
streets of the town, still preserving the old Roman arrangement,
intersect each other, we proceed through the well-preserved E.
town-gate, the ancient three-arched *Pon'ra Pmrom, to the
(7‘ M.) handsome *Tnmnmur. Anon or Auovsrus, with its ten
Corinthian pilasters. We then cross the Buthier, which has changed
its channel, to the beautiful arch of the old Roman Bridge, now
half-buried in the earth.

In the Borgo di San Orso, the E. suburb, lies the church of
Sr. Ouns or Sant’ Ono, founded in 425 and rebuilt in the 12th cent-
ury. The choir contains the tomb of Bishop Gallus (d.546) and ﬁnely
carved stalls of the 15th century. The old crypt is borne by Roman
columns. The cloisters contain early-Romanesque columns (12th
cent.), with interesting capitals. Near the church rises 3 Tower,
built of Roman hewn stones in the 12th cent., opposite which are
two ancient columns at the entrance of a chapel. In the same piazza
is the picturesque Priory of St. Our: (15th cent.), with terracotta
ornamentation and an octagonal tower. The interior contains good
wood-carvings and frescoes.

The Vicolo del Baillage, leading to the N. from the Ports Prae—
toria, and then the Via del Teatro, to the left, bring us to the Roman
Theatre, of which only the S. wall (70 ft. high) is now standing. -—
The Amphitheatre, destroyed all but a few arcades, in the old Con-
vento di Santa Caterina, is reached from the market—place by the
Via Saverio di Maestro, leading to the N.E.

The CarnnnnaL, also in the N. part of the town, owes its present
form to the 14th century.' Above the portal is a painted terracotta
relief; in the choir, two mosaic pavements of 1429 and Gothic
stalls of the 15th century. The treasury contains two shrines of the
13th and 15th cent. (SS. Gratus and J ucundus), a cameo of a Roman
empress in a setting of the 13th cent., and an ivory diptych of the
Consul Probus (406) with a representation of the Emp. Honorius.
The Cloisters date from 1460. —— The Veacovada (17th cent.), close
by, contains portraits of all the bishops of Aosta and a large relief-
plan of the Aosta valley, by Luigi Vescoz. In the Accademia di Sant’
Anselmo are Celtic and Roman antiquities.

At the S. town-gate (the ancient Porto Principalis Dextra; re-
cently freed from encroaching buildings) rises the Torre Bramafam
(12th cent), a relic of a castle of the Counts of Challaut. It contains
an inscription dedicated to Augustus by the Salassi. — By the W.
wall is the medizeval Torre deI. Lebbroso, or Tour du Lépreux, de-
scribed in Xavier Le Maistre’s novel, in which a leper named Guasco
(d. 1803) and his sister Angelica (d. 1791) dragged out their mis-
erable existence. —— Numerous crétlns will be seen in Aosta.

