to Florence. PRATO. 57. Route. 429

Andrea delta Robbie, and a superb bronze screen bear testimony to the
importance of Prato in the history of Renaissance sculpture. Among the
painters of the place were Filippo and Filippino “m, Sandro Botticelli,
and Pro Diamante. The church of the Hadonna Jello Career-t at Prato also
forms a very striking example of Renaissance architecture. This ediﬁce
(erected by Giuliano do Sannallo) exhibits the transition from early to
high Renaissance, and shows how anxiously the architects of the day
directed their attention to the design of a Greek cross covered with a dome.

From the station we follow the Via Magnolﬂ, the ﬁrst street to
the left, to the (4 min.) Piazza del Dnomo, which is embellished
with a monument to the patriot Giuseppe Mazzom‘ (1897).

The Duono, begun in the 12th cent. in the Tuscan-Romanesque
style, was completed by Giovanni Pisano in 1317-20 in the Gothic
style. The campanile, in the Lombard style, is by Niccolo di Ceceo
(1340). On the facade, rebuilt after 1413 by Niccolo d’Areuo, is a
pulpit, adorned by Donatello and Micheloszo, in 1434-38, with ‘Re-
iiefs (dancing children) and a line bronze capital. From the pulpit
the highly-revered Sacra Cintola, or ‘girdle of the Virgin‘, preserved
in the cathedral, is periodically exhibited to the people. Over the
principal entrance 8. ‘Msdonna with SS. Stephen and Lawrence in
terracotta, by Andrea della Robbie (i489).

Lennon (very dark). Over the Puncrru. Ens-neon the Virgin deliver-
ing the girdle to St. Thomas, by Ridolfo Ghtrlanda/o. The mural (paintings
in the Canaan DELLA Cm’rou (the Virgin presenting her gir ie to St.
Thomas; discovery of the girdle in Palestine by a native of Prato) are the
Jest works of the kind by Aanolo Gaddi (early work; 1365). On the altar
s a marble statnette of the Virgin by Giovanni Pisano; handsome bronze
Screen executed in 1444 by the Florentine Bruno df Ser Lapo, the frieze
)y Pasqudno «It Matteo do Montspulciano (“61-84). A small room adjoining
he cha e1 on the right contains reliefs (Death of the Virgin, Presentation
{ the (girdle) in the style of the School of Pisa. — In the Chen: at the
ack of the high-altar, are the ‘Histories of John the Baptist and St. Stephen
y Fro Filippo Lippi (1156-64), in fresco, the ﬁnest work of this master
wmewhat injured): on the right (above) Birth and Naming of the Baptist;
is Withdrawal to the wilderness and his Preaching; Dance of the daughter
1' Herodias; by the window, on the right: Beheading of St. John; above
. a saint. 0n the left wall of the choir (above): Birth of St. Stephen,
is Ordination and Care for the Poor, Stoning and Interment (among the
imirable portrait-ﬁgures are Cardinal Carlo de' Medici, the donor, and,
Ithe extreme right, the portrait of the painter himself, wearing abiack
lp). The continuation of the scene of the stoning is on the window-wail;
)ove it a saint; on the ceiling Evangelists (best light in the forenoon).
~ The chapel to the right of the choir is embellished with frescoes of
e beginning of the 15th cent., ascribed to Slat-nine: and Anton“ Vilt (1'):

the right scenes_from the life of the Virgin (Birth Presentation in the
maple Marriage). to the left scenes from the life of St. Stephen (Sermon,
srtyrdom, Mourning over his body). In the right transept, in a Gothic
case in the wall: is the Death of St. Bernard. also by Era Filippo Lippi
ery dark); the Madonna dell‘ Ulivo, a statue in clay by Benedetto da
v'ano; and, below, a Pieta (relief, in marble), by his brothers Giuliano
d Giovanni da Maiano (1480). — In the nave, handsome PDLPIT, resting
sphinxes and snakes, by Mina do Fiesole and Ant. Rossellino. The latter
0 executed the admirable reliefs (1473) of the Presentation of the Girdle,
:1 of the stoning and Mourning of St. Stephen.

Not far from the cathedral, in the Via Garibaldi, is the little
“"311 .of San Lodovico (called also Madonna del Buonconsiglio),

