ITALIAN ART. lix

1649), whose frescoes in the Farnesina (unfortunately not now
accessible) vie with Raphael’s works in tenderness and grace. A
still more numerous circle of pupils, however, soon assembled around
Raphael himself, such as Grumo Romano, Pram DBL Vacs, AN-
nm DA Susnrzo, Pomnono na Canavaeero, Trno'rno Vr-rr or
mums Vr'rn, Guoruo, ano. Puma, and Grovarzm pa Unnm.
Attended by this distinguished retinue, Raphael enjoyed all the
honours of a prince, although, in the Roman art world, Bramante
(p. xlvii) and Michael Angelo occupied an equally high rank. The
latter did not, however, trench on Raphael’s province as a painter
so much as was formerly supposed, and the jealousy of each other
which they are said to have entertained was probably chieﬂy conﬁned ‘
to their respective followers. Raphael had doubtless examined the
ceiling of the Sistine with the utmost care, and was indebted to
Michael Angelo for much instruction; but it is very important to
note that he neither followed in the footsteps, nor suﬂ‘ered his native
genius to be biassed in the slightest degree by the example of his
great rival. A signal proof of this independence is aﬂ'orded by the
Sibyls which he painted in the church of Santa Maria della Pace in
1514, and which, though conceived in a very diﬁerent spirit from
the imposing ﬁgures in the Sistine, are not the less admirable. In
order duly to appreciate the works produced by Raphael during his
Roman period, the traveller should chieﬂy direct his attention to
the master’s frescoes. The Stanza in the Vatican, the Mutt-y, the
Logge, the ﬁnest work of decorative art in existence, the Dome
Mosaics in Santa Maria del Popolo (Oapp. Chigi), and‘ the Galatea
and Myth of Psyche in the Farnesina together constitute the treasure
bequeathed to Rome by the genius of the prince of painters. (Far-
ther particulars as to these works will he found in the second volume
of this Handbook.)

Many, and some of the best , of Raphael’s easel-pictures of his
Roman period are now beyond the Alps. Italy, however, still pos—
sesses the Madonna delta Sedia, the most mundane, but most
charming of his Madonnas (Pitti), the Madonna dcll’ Impannata
(Pitti), the Madonna col Divine Amore (Naples), the Madonna di
Foliguo and the Transﬁguration .(in the Vatican), St. Cecilia (Bo-
logna), and the Young St. John (Uftizi). The ﬁnest of his portraits
are those of Pope Julius II. (Ufﬂzi) and Leo X. with two Cardinals
LPitti). Besides these works we must also mention the so-oalled
Fomarina (in the Pal. Barberini at Rome), and the Portrait of a
Lady (Pitti, No. 245), which may represent the same original and
also recalls the Sistine Madonna. 7

After Raphael's death the progress of art did not merely come
to a standstill, but a period of rapid DECLINE set in. The conquest
and plundering of Rome in 1527 entirely paralysed all artistic effort
for a time. At ﬁrst this misfortune proved a boon to other parts of
Italy. Raphael’s pupils migrated from Rome to various provincial

