130 Route 19. MILAN. b. camuo Bfoneaco

1897 and is now used as a reservoir for drinking-water (urbatoio).
The tower-gateway of F ilarete (see p. 129) was restored after 1901
as the Tom Umberto Prime; but the S. corner-tower and the curtain
between the towers still await restoration.

Innnron. To the left of the anterior court is the unpretending
Rocchctta, with a new curtain-wall and the Torre di Bona di Sawia
(166 ft. high); to the right is the Corte Ducalc, the new palace of the
Sforza, with Gothic windows (restored) and a curtain-wall. —— In
the passage leading to the Corte Ducale, to the left, is a fresco re-
presenting the Cruciﬁxion, with saints and the pious donors (ca.
1470.80).

In the S. angle of the court of the 00311: Duosnn is the Loggetta,
agracet‘ul Renaissance structure, from the time of Galeazzo Maria. The
building now accommodates the “use Archeologico ed Artistico
(adm., see p. 115; guida sommaria, 10 (7.).

0n the groundﬂoor is the Musno Ancnnonoeloo, formerly (1862-
98) in the Brera. This includes prehistoric articles and antiques
discovered in Lombardy and ﬁne medieval and modern sculptures.

I. Boon. In the ﬁrst division are Egyptian and prehistoric antiquities.
The last cabinet in the middle contains objects found in Celtic graves at
Sesto Calende in 1867. In the second division are Etruscan, Greek and
Roman antiquities. In front, four antique porphyry columns; among the

sculptures, b the last window on the right, is a colossal head of Zeus
(nose restored .

'I'om‘u flights“.

 

II. Roon. Early medieval sculptures (6-13“: cent). Entrance-wall:
Fragments of frescoes and architectural fragments from the former convent-
church of Santa Maria. d'Aurona (some still in the Longobnrdic style). In
front, Case with articles found in Longobardic graves at Foruovo di San
Giovanni. — Left wall: Romanesque architectonic fragments from the
churches of Sant‘ Eustorgio and San Celso (l2th cent). — Exit-wall:
Remains from the Cloisters of the convent of Santa Radegonda (12th cent);
reliefs from the Ports Romans (1171) and Portia Tosa (caricatures of Emp.
Frederick Barbarossa and the Empress Beatrice).

