SS. Nazxaro e Celso. BRESCIA. 34. Route. 205

fountain to the right, in the Via S. Giovanni, is San Giovanni Evan-

gelist: (Pl. B, 2), with admirable pictures.

We begin on the right. 3rd Altar: Horatio, Massacre of the Innocents,
Iyouthful work (copied from the engraving by Marcuntonio). In the choir,
behind the high—altar: Horatio, ‘John the Baptist, Zacharias, SS. Augustine
and Agnes; in the centre, the Madonna; above, God the Father (un-
fortunately retouehed). — in the next chapel (Corpus Domini): (Ii-creme,
Entombment, in a magniﬁcent Renaissance frame (1509); in the lunette
above, Coronation of the Virgin, by Romanian. ‘Frescoes on the right by
11mm (youthful works of 1521 showing the inﬂuence of Bomanino):
Collecting the manna, Elijah, and Last Supper, on the pilastcrs St. Mark
and St. Luke, and six prophets above. Those on the left are by omam‘no:
liaising of Lazarus, Mary Magdalen before Christ, and the Sacrament, on
the ilssters, St. John and St. Matthew (the latter damaged), and six
prop ets above. — In the Battistero (in front, to the left): Francesco
Franda, ‘The Trinity adored by saints, one of the artist‘s ilnest works.

We next proceed by the Via Borgondio, to the N.E., to visit
Sun's MABXA nu CAEIIINB (Pl. B, 0,2), dating from the 15th cent,
with a Renaissance portal and line brick ornamentation on the
facade. The lunette contains a fresco (Annunciation) by Ferramola.
In the third chapel on the right, Fathers of the Church, a ceiling-

painting by Vine. Poppa.

To the W., at the end of Via San Rocco, is the church of Santa
[aria delle Gruie (Pl. A, 2), which dates from 1522, with the
exception of the main portal, which is older.

lst altar to the left, Madonna in clouds, with four saints below, by
Iowa; over the high-altar, a Nativity of Christ, by Moreno; chapel to
the right of the choir, Madonna in clouds, below, SS. Sebastian Ambrose,
and Rochus by Moreno. — The church is adjoined on the left by a small
early-Renaissance court and a modern Romanesque pilgrimage-chapel, by
Ant. Tagliaferri.

Beside the Ports Milano (P1. A, 2) is a bronze Equestrian Statue
of Garibaldi, designed by Maccagnani (1889). — The Corso Carlo
Alberto (the fourth side-street in the Corso Garibaldi, p. 204) leads
,to the S. to the Palauo Fe (18th cent.) and the church of Santi
luliro e Celso (Pl. 13; A, 3), built in 1780 and containing several

good pictures.
‘High-altar- iece by Titian, in five sections, the Resurrection being

the principal su ject on the right, St. Sebastian, on the left, St. George
with the portrait of veroldo, the donor (1522); above these, the Annun-
ciation (‘long an object of study to the artists of the Brcscion School‘:
C. 4' 0.). — Second altar on the left, ‘Coronation of the Virgin, with 88.
Michael, Joseph, Nicholas, and Francis below, by Morello (covered; ‘this
altar-piece is the very best of its kind, cold perhaps in silver-grey surface,
but full of bright harmony and colour‘: 0. it 0.). — Third altar on the
right, Christ in glory (1541):, fourth altar on the left, Nativity, with SS.
Nua‘ﬁro and Celso, also by Horatio, sadly damaged. —— In the sacristy,
above the side-door, Predella by Moreno, Adoration of the Child, Madonna
and angel in medallions. 0n the organ-wing, an Annunciation by Foppa.
Above the side-doors of the main portal of the church is a large painting
of the Martyrdom of Nazarius and Cclsus, ascribed to Foppo.

A few yards to the E., in the Corso Vittorio Emanuele (which
leads to the rail. station), is the small church of the Hadonna dei
lirnacoli (Pl. 5; B, 3), with four domes and a rich facade, an early-
Rensissance building (1488-1523) though not completed until the

