202 Route 34. BRESCIA. Museum of Antiquities.

s. Petrarch of 1470 with various illustrations (‘Pstrarca ﬁyurato‘) and
written annotation; a Dante with numerous wood-cuts, printed at Brescia
in 1487, etc.

The Broletto (P1. 0, 2, 3), a massive building, adjoining the
cathedral on the N., dates from 1187 and 1222 but was not entirely
completed until the 15-17th centuries. Anciently (until 1421) the
town-hall, it now contains the courts of justice and the prefecture.
The oampanile on the S. side, the Torre del Popolo, belongs to the
original ediﬂce, which is now being restored in the initial style.

The Gothic brick facade of the former church of Sant’ Agoatino
is incorporated with the W. side of the Broletto, past which the
Vicolo Saut’ AgOstino ascends to the Piazza Tito Spcri (Pl. 0, 2), at
the entrance to the Castello. This piazza, now embellished with
a monument to Tito Spcri (p. 200; b. 1827, executed at Mantua in
1853), was one of the most obstinately contested points in 1849.

The Contrada Broletto and the Via Santa Giulia run hence to
‘the E. to the Piazza del Museo (Pl. D, 2, 3), occupying the site of
the Roman Forum, of which the Portions on the E. side is a relic.
At the N. end of the piazza is the entrance to the —

*Museum of Antiquities (Mum) Civico Eta Romano or Museo .
Patric,- Pl. D, 2; week-days 10-4, Nov. to Feb. 10—3, fee 1 15-.
which admits also to the Mediaaval Museum; free on Sun. in 1
summer, 1-4). The museum occupies an ancient Corinthian Temple
of Hercules, excavated in 1822, which, according to inscriptiom,
was erected by Vespasian in A.D. 72. The dilapidated, but ex-
ceedingly picturesque temple stands on a lofty substructure, with .
a projecting colonnade of ten columns and four pillars to which the
steps ascend, and has three cellac of moderate depth.

The pavement of the PRINCIPAL Han. has been restored from the
original remains. By the back-wall, as in the other chambers, are placed ,
the bases of the temple images. Among the Roman inscriptions and ,
sculptures is an archaic head; also two tombs of the ﬂint period. — The \
Srnn 8.00! on the right contains ancient glass, vases, coins, bronzes, etc. —-
In the Room on the left are fragments of a colossal temple-ﬁgure arch-
itectural fragments, gilded bronze busts, a relief of a naval battle,
breastplate of a war-horse, and above all s. “Statue of Watery. excavated
in 1826, a bronze ﬁgure about 6‘]: ft. in height, with a silver-plated
diadem round her head, a (restored) shield, on which she is about to
write, in her left hand, and a (restored) helmet under her left foot, one
of the most precious existing specimens of ancient plastic art. »

A couple of min. to the S. maybe seen some remains ofthe Roman .
Curio, built into the N. side of the small Piazza del Beveratore; and
a few traces of the Roman Theatre may be noticed in the court of
the Casa Gambara, in the Vicolo Fontanone.

Farther along the Via Santa Giulia (see above), and in the upper
part of the Via Veronica Gambara, rises a large block of buildings,
including three churches. These are relics of the convent of San
Salvatore or Santa Giulia, founded by the Lombard King Desiderius.
The church of Santa Maria del Solar-1'0 (Pl. D, 2, 3) is Romanesque
(ii-12th cent.). The other churches, S. Salvatore (8th cent.) and

