 

1
xiv CUSTOM HOUSE.

trattare , bargain) in the smaller hotels , in dealings with drivers,
gondoliers, guides, etc., and in shops, will rarely meet with attempts
at extortion in Northern Italy.+

IV. Passports. Custom House. Luggage.

Passports, though not required in Italy, are occasionally useful.
Registered letters, for example, will not be delivered to strangers,
unless they exhibit a passport to prove their identity. The count-
enance and help of the English and American consuls can, of course,
be extended to those persons only who can prove their nationality.
The Italian police authorities are generally civil and obliging.

Foreign Ofﬁce passports may be obtained through 0. Smith a Son

63 Charing Cross, Buss, no West Strand, w. J. Adams, 59 Fleet Street:
or the usual tourist agents (Cook, Gaze, etc); charge 2:..- sgent‘s fee 11. 6d.

Custom House. The examination of luggage at the Italian
frontier railway—stations is generally lenient, but complaints are
sometimes made as to a deficiency of ofﬁcial courtesy at diligence
and steamer stations. Tobacco and cigars (only six pass free), playing
cards, and matches are the articles chieﬂy sought for. A duty of
30 c. per kilogramme (‘21/4 lbs.) is levied on unexposed photograph
plates. The custom-house receipts should be preserved, as travellers
are sometimes challenged by the excise ofﬁcials in the interior. At
the gates of most of the Italian towns a tax (dasio consume) is levied
on comestibles, but travellers’ luggage is passed at the barriers (limits
dasiario) on a simple declaration that it contains no such articles.

Luggage. If possible, luggage should never be sent to Italy
by goods—train, as it is liable to damage, pilferage, and undue
custom-house detention. If the traveller is obliged to forward it in
this way, he should employ a trustworthy agent at the hontier and
send him the keys. As a rule it is advisable, and often in the end
less expensive, never to part from one‘s luggage, and to super—
intend the custom-house examination in person (comp. p. xviii).

V. Public Safety. Beggars.
Public Safety in Northern Italy is on as stable a footing as to the
N. of the Alps. Travellers will naturally avoid lonely quarters
after night-fall, just as they would at home. The policeman in the
town is called Guardia; the gendarme in the country, Carabinicre
(black coat with red facings and cocked hat). No one may carry
weapons without a licence, on pain of imprisonment. Armi in-

1- A few wont: on the pronunciation may be acceptable to persons un-
acquainted with the language. 0 before a and i is pronounced like the
English ch; 9 before e and i like j. Before other vowels a and g are
hard. Oh and .711, which generally precede s or i, are hard. So before a
or t is pronounced like sh; an and at between vowels like nyl‘ and lyi.
His silent. The vowels a, s, i, o, u are pronounced eh, 3, ee 0 on. — In Id.-
dressing persons of the educated classes ‘Lei‘, with the drd pers. sing.,
should always be employed (addressing several at once, ‘loro‘ with the
3rd pers. pl). ‘Voi' is used in addressing waiters, drivers, etc.

