ITALIAN ART. xlvii

The early Renaissance is succeeded by Bmarrrs’s epoch (i444-
1514), with which began the golden age of symmetrical construc-
tion. With a wise economy the mere decorative portions ZEN,"
were circumscribed, while greater signiﬁcance and more or run Riz-
marked expression were imparted to the true constituents “““wcn'
of the structure, the real exponents of the architectural design.
The works of the Bramantine era are less graceful and attractive
than those of their predecessors, but superior in their well deﬁned,
lofty simplicity and ﬁnished character. Had the Church of St. Peter
been completed in the form originally designed by Bramante , we
muld have pronounced a more decided opinion as to the ideal of the
church-architecture of the Renaissance. The circumstance that the
grandest work of this style has been subjected to the most varied
alterations (and vastness of dimensions was the principal aim of the
architects) teaches us to refrain from the indiscriminate blame which
so commonly falls to the lot of Renaissance churches. It must at
least be admitted that the favourite form of a Greek cross with
rounded extremities, crowned by a dome, possesses concentrated
unity, and that the pillar-construction relieved by niches presents
a most majestic appearance; nor can it be disputed that in the
churches of the Renaissance the same artistic principles are applied
as in the universally admired palaces and secular ediﬁces. If the
former therefore excite less interest, this is not due to the in-
feriority of the architects, but to causes beyond their control. The
great masters of this culminating period of the Renaissance were
Mann, Barmassann Psnuzzr, the younger ANTONIO DA SANGALLO
of Rome, Mrcnxm; Saruucmsm of Verona (p. 223), J acoro Ssxso-
vmo of Venice, and lastly Mremm. ANGELO. The succeeding gener-
ation of the 16th century did not adhere to the style introduced by
Brsmante, though not reduced by him to a ﬁnished system. They
aim more sedulously at general effect, so that harmony among the
individual members begins to be neglected; they endeavour to arrest
the eye by boldness of construction and striking contrasts; or they
borrow new modes of expression from antiquity, the precepts of
Which had hitherto been applied in an unsystematic manner only.

The traveller will become acquainted with the works of Bramante
and his contemporaries at Rome (see vol. ii of this Hand- mm“ RE.
book), but there are other places also which possess important Nalssarwa
examples of the ‘High Renaissance‘ style. At Florence, for B"'”"“‘“'
example, are the Palazzo Pandolﬁni and the Palazzo Uguccioni,
the former of which is said to have been designed by RAPHAEL; the
Court of the Pim Palace by BART. AMMANATI; the Palazzo Serriatori
Ind the Palaazo Bartolini by Baccro D’AONOLO. We must also
mention Mantua as the scene of the architectural labours of'Gero
Romano . 236), Verona with its numerous buildings by SAN-
lrcrhu 8.9. the Palaaso Bevllacqugz, and Padua , where Gro-

) .

vmr Mania FALCONBTTO (1458-15 and Arman Moore, or

