Baptistery. PISA. 56. Route. 407

The Interior (usually entered by the last-mentioned door on the E.
side, opposite the Campanile) is borne by 68 ancient Roman and Greek
columns captured by the Pisans in war. (The capitals are now covered
with stucco.) The nave has a ﬂat coti'ered Renaissance ceiling, richly
gilded, of a date subsequent to the ﬁre; the aisles are vaulted, and above
them run triforia which cross the transept to the choir.

Nave. Most of the tombstones formerly here have been removed to the
Clmpo Santo. A few still remain by the W. WALL near the principal
entrance, among them that of Archb. Rinnccini (d. 1552), by Pietro Tacca,
to the left, and that of Archb. Ginliano de‘ Medici (d. 1.660). to the right.
The large altar-pieces are by Andrea del Sarto (Madonna and saints, at the
3rd altar on the right; injured), Allorl, I’asu‘pnana, Balimbeni, and other
masters of the 16th cent.; the intervening pictures are of the 17th and
13th centuries. The stalls incorporate some remains of the upper parts
of the stalls injured by the fire of 1595, including three panels with
half-lengths of prophets, by Giuliano da Majano (ca. 1475). The beautiful
bronze lamp which hangs in the nave was designed by Bettina Lormn'
of Florence (1587). Its swaying is said to have ﬁrst suggested to Galileo
:he idea of the pendulum. 0n the last pillar of the nave on the right,
St. Agnes, by Andrea dsl Sarto. Opposite is a Madonna by Peri" dsl Vaga.

RIGHT Tam-arr: 1st altar on the right, Madonna, by Perm del Vega and
iogliani. At the end is the gorgeous Cappella di San Ranien‘ (p. 406), which
.Ontains the sarcophagus of the saint by Foyyini and a freely restored
ladonna in mosaic, by 8. Follower of Cimabue; the relief on the niche and
he statues‘ by Francesco Home (about 16(1)). The basin for holy water at
he entrance is by Giro]. Rout'nu'no (1618).

011013. The choir-screens are elegant Renaissance works. The two
ngels in bronze on the right and left are by Giovanni do Bologna. The
v0 episcopal thrones are by Gian. Batt. Cerullut' (1536). the six reliefs,
Jove, by masters of the school of Giovanni Film. The Renaissance
ioir-stalls, with apostles landscapes, and animals, were carved by Dom.
Mariam and others (14178-1515). The high-altar, overladen with marble
Id lapis lazuli, dating from 177A, was restored in 1825. Above it, Christ
I the Cross, by Giovanni do Bologna. Behind it is a lcctern, by Alamo
vitali. — 0n the arch of the choir, angels by Dom. Glu'rlandajo, un-
rtunately much retouched. The mosaics in the dome (Christ and St. John)
a by Cimalme (1302); the ﬁgure of the Virgin was added in 1321. Of
c painting in the choir 85. Margaret and Catharine on the right in
ml of the h gh-altar, and éS. Peter and John on the left, by And. del Sarto
: worthy of inspection; beyond the high—altar 'Abraham‘s Sacriﬁce, an
tombment by Sodom.- the four Evangelists by Reccafumt.

Lnr’r Taanssn. Over the Cappella del Sanitarium Sacramento, the
nunciation in mosaic by a Follower of Cimabue (modernized). The altar,
lily decorated with silver, is by Foggim'; behind it, Adam and Eve, a
~relief by Hosea, by whom also the other statues were executed.

The 'Baptiltery (Batlistiro), begun in 1153 by Diotisalvi, but
ording to the inscriptions not completed till 1278, and with
hic additions of the 14th cent., is also entirely of marble. It is
aautiful circular structure (100 ft. in diameter) , surrounded by
f- columns below, and a gallery of smaller detached columns
ve, and covered with a conical dome [179 ft. high, restored in
6). It has four entrances. The main portal has elaborately
rned columns, with reliefs of the Months to the left and sculp-
ss of the beginning of the 13th cent. over the door. Still higher

Madonna by Giov. Ptaano.

I‘he Ire-rumor. (closed; visitors knock at the principal entrance; 'fee
’ e.) rests on eight columns and four piers, above which there is a
le triforium. In the centre is a marble octagonal Font, by Guido
'61“ of Como (1246), and near it the famous hexagonal ‘Pulpi‘t, borne

