the Eastern Quarters. VENICE. 42. Route. 305

paces to the right, and enter the side-street on the left, which

brings us to —

San Francesco della Vigna (Pl. 1, K, 4), a building without
aisles byJac. Sansovino and Fra Franc. di Giorgio (1534) ; the facade,
designed by Andrea Palladio (1568), was not completed until 1634.

INTERIOR. 1st Chapel on the right: Last Supper, by Franc. da Santa
Grace.- 3rd chapel, encrusted with coloured marble with the monuments
of the doges Francesco nnd Alvise Contarini (d. 1824 and 1684). Rmu’r
Tween, Enthroned Madonna, by Fra Antonio do Negroponle (about 1450).
In the Chain, on the left, monument of Dogs A. Gritti (d. 1538). —— To
the left of the choir in the Curran Grusrmum, is an altar with reliefs
in marble of the 15th cent, from the workshop of the Lombardt; Last
Judgment below; above (as an altar-piece), St. Jerome and four other saints,
with the history of St. Jerome in three sections below; over them Madonna
and angels; at the sides of the chapel twelve prophets and the Evangel-
iste; higher a , the history of Jesus in eighteen sections. — In the
chapel of the noxe’rlxe, ad'acent to the N., opposite the entrance of the
left transept, Madonna and our saints, by 01'0”. Bellini (1507; spoiled). —
LIFT Tuners-yr: over the pulpit, Christ, by Girolamo da Santa Croce, re-
touched. To the left: 2nd chapel, Altar with statues of SS. Rochus,
Antonius Abbas, and Sebastian by Al. Vittoria,- Srd chapel, in white marble,
* with busts of the Patriarch and Doge Sagredo, erected in 1743; over the

altar the statue of B. Gherardo; 5th chapel (in the left traneept), Adoration
of the Magi by Paolo Verona: (spoiled).

A little to the S., on the Rio della Piota, is the church of SAN
Lomsnzo (on the W.), containing a ﬁne iron screen and statues
of SS. Lawrence and Sebastian by Girol. Campagna (at the high—
altar). On the E. is the church of San Giorgio degli Schiavoni
(Pl. I, 5; best light about midday), with a Renaissance facade by
Jac. Sansovino (1551), the chapel of a Senate established in 1451
by a Dalmatian (Slavonic) Brotherhood for the succour of poor Dal-

matian sailors and others.

The Ina-anion, with a low wooden ceiling, is adorned with ‘Paintings
by Vittore Carpacci'o (ca. 1502-1118): Christ on the Mount of Olives; Christ
invited to the house of Matthew; and series illustrating the lives of the
three great Dalmatian saints, Jerome, George, and Tryphonius. 0n the
right are three scenes relating to St. Jerome, the best of which is his Death.
Opposite and on the left of the altar are three scenes from the life of St.
George, including a fine re resentation of his combat with the Dragon,
in a beautiful landscape. ext the altar on the rightZ the legend of St.
Tryphonius. Mr. Ruskin devotes the ﬁrst supplement ( The Shrine of the
Slaves‘) of ‘St. Mark’s Reet‘ to a description of these paintings. Above the
high—altar is a Madonna by Vt'nc. Galena. The oratory, on the ﬁrst ﬂoor,
to the left, has a tine wooden ceiling.

Farther S. we come to the church of Sant' Antonino, where we
cross the bridge to the right to San Giorgio dei Greoi (Pl. I, 5;
comp. p. 265), erected after 1538 by Santa Lombardo and Chiona,
with a leaning campauile, an ikonostasie adorned with Byzantine
paintings on a golden ground, and a few mosaics. — Returning to
S. Antonino, and resuming a S. direction, we soon reach —

San Giovanni in Brago'ra (Pl. 1, 5), a church of early origin,
entirely restored at the beginning of the 18th century.

2nd CHAPEL on the right: At. Vioan’m‘, Madonna and Child. -— 0n the

Pie" in front of the choir-chit cl: right, Cima da Compliant), Constantine
Ind St. Helena by the Cross (1 ); to the left, Alvin Weartm', Resurrection

Bananas. Italy 1. 12th Edit. 20-

