the Northern Quarters. VENICE. Route. 42. 301

We now return to the Rio San Felice and turn to the SE. into
the Rio di S. Caterina. The high-altar-piece of the church of SANTA
Carranza here (P1. G, 3; if closed, entrance to the right, through the
Lyceum, Convitto Nazionale), is a ‘Marriage of St. Catharine, by
Paolo Vemnae, a masterpiece and in admirable preservation. At
the end of the right aisle is a Tobias with the angel, by Orazio Vecelti.

We proceed to the E. to the Ponte dei Gesuiti, and turning to
the left reach the church of ——

‘Santa Maria. dei Gesuiti (Pl. G, H, 3), usually known as
‘I Gemiti’, erected in 1715-30 in the baroque style by Dom. Roast
[facade by Gino. Fattoretto). The interior is entirely lined with

= marble inlaid with verde antico, and sumptuonsly decorated like all

the churches of this order.

At the Bron Anus (by (Jim. P0220) are ten spiral columns of verde
antieo; in the centre, a globe, with God the Father and the Son. The
chapel to the right of the high-altar contains the monument of Orazio
Farnese (d. 1654); in the chapel on the left is the Monument of Doge
Pasquale Cicogna (d. 1595), with the recumbent ’Statue of the deceased,
by 0. Campagna; adjacent, in the Sacsrsrr, over the door, Presentation
in the Temple, by Tintorcuo. Then, in the Len Tumour-r, the Assumption,
an altar-piece by Timur-em. In the 1st chapel on the left of the principal
door is the Martyrdom'of St. Lawrence, one of the ﬁnest of the altar-
pieces by Titian (1568), who ‘never made a nearer approach to the grand
art of the Florentines than when he painted this piece, in which he
applied the principle of dramatic execution peculiar to lilichaelangelo‘.
Unfortunately it is darkened by age (seen best about noon).

We may return from this point either along the Fondamenla.
Nuoce (Pl. G, 2; view of San Michele and Murano); or past Santi
Giovanni c Paolo to the Rica degli Schiavom' (comp. pp. 303-306),
or we may combine this trip with an excursion to Murano (steam—

boat, see p. 319).

s. From the Piazza of St. Mark to Benti Giovanni e Paolo, and
thence to the Diva degli Schiavoni. Eastern Quarters.

From the Piazzetia dei Leoni (p. 274), on the N. side of St. Mark’s,
we turn to the E. by the Calle di Canonica, pass round the Pal. Patri-
rrcale (p. 274) on the right, and observe opposite us the Pal. Trwisam'
Pl. H, 5), or Bianca Cappello, built in the style of the Lombardi
ibout 1500, and now occupied by the Camera di Commercio ed Arti,
7 Chamber of Commerce. ,We cross the Rio di Palazzo (tine view
tom the Ponte di Canonica of the back of the Palace of the Doges
.nd 01’ the Bridge of Sighs; comp. p. 282), proceed across the
lampo Santi Filippo e Giacomo and beyond the second canal reach
he Campo di San Provolo. Thence we pass through a portal with
he inscription ‘Campo S. Zaccaria’, over which there is a line relief, -
u the style of the Massegne, of the Madonna between John the
iaptist and St. Mark. This leads to the Campo and church of —

*San Zacoaﬁa(Pl. H, I, 5), erected in 1458-1515 in the transi—
‘On style between Gothic and Renaissance, partly by Ant. Gambello

