Pal. of the Degas. VENICE. 42. Route. 277

Lion of St. Mark and the kneeling ﬁgure of Dogs Franc. Foscari,
above the portal, is modern (comp. p. 281).

The magniﬁcent ‘Coun'r was begun about 1483 by Ant. Rina,
continued in 1499-1611 by Pietro Lombardo land in 1545-50 by Ant.
Scarpagnino, but only partly completed. The ﬂorid facade on the E.
side is probably by Rizzo. The little 'Facsde adjoining St. Mark’s
at the N.E. corner, attributed to Gugl. Bergamaaco (1520), is less
gorgeous, but more happily preportioned. Within one of the highest
windows to the left of the main facade was the prison of the poet
Count Silvio Pellico in 1822, before he was removed to the Spiel-
berg at Briinn (comp. p.43). In the centre of the court are two
Well Head: in bronze, of 1556 and 1559. On the facade of the
Clock Tower, to the right, is a statue of the Venetian general Duke
Francis Maria I. of Urbino (d. 1538) by the Florentine sculptor
0. Bandtni. The other statues are antique, but freely restored.

The richlyornamented Scale do! Giganti, the ﬂight of steps leading
to the palace, derives its name from the colossal statues of Mars and
Neptune at the top, by Samouino (1554). On the highest landing of
these steps, in the later period of the Republic, the dcges were
crowned. Opposite are beautiful statues of ‘Adam and Eve, by
Antonio Bizzo (1464).

The *IN'rnmon (admission, see p. 265; ofﬁce on the ﬁrst ﬂoor,
to the right) is another prominent specimen of Venetian art,
although it was robbed of many treasures by the French in 1797.
While the earliest native painters devoted their energies to the
church of St. Mark, the great masters of the 15th and 16th cent.
were chieﬂy engaged in the Palace of the ches. As, however,
their works were destroyed by the great ﬁre of 1577, the palace
new forms a museum of later masters only, such asTintoretto,
Paolo Veronese, and Palma (Havana, but it still presents a most
brilliant display of Venetian painting, so far as executed for behoot‘
of the state. The excellent condition of the paintings is note-

worthy; the gorgeous colouring of P. Var-ones: is nowhere better
illustrated. Lists of the pictures are placed in the principal rooms
(except on Sun. and holidays; printed description 50 c.).

We ascend the Scala dci Giganti. Around the upper colonnade
are modern busts of Venetian scholars, artists, and doges, and a
few antiques from the Archeological Museum (p. 281; Dionysus
and a satyr, Apollo resting, two Muses). Tickets of admission are
sold opposite the staircase (see p. 265). To the right is the richly
decorated Scala d'Oro of Sansooino, completed in 1577 , once
accessible to those only whose names were entered as ‘Nobili' in
the Golden Book. The stucco-work is by Al. Vittoria, the paintings
by G. B. Franco. By this staircase we ascend on week-days direct
to the upper story. — The next staircase, the Scala dci Censor-i, is
the entrance on Sundays and festivals (p. 279).

The Urrnn Fnoon contains the apartments in which the author-

