of Florence. CERTOSA DI VAL D'EMA. 59. Route. 523

We ascend slightly in a straight direction by a footpath to the (‘2 min.)
old Torre I] 611110 (625 ft.), so called after a family named Galli, and
now belonging to Count Galletti, who has restored it in the style of
the 14th century. It contains a telescope and various other remini-
scences of Galileo, who from this tower is said to have made several
important astronomical observations. In the basement are a portrait
of Galileo by Sustcrmam, a portrait of Michael Angelo, and other
objects of little interest. The platform at the top of the tower aﬂ‘ords
a splendid *Panorama of Florence and the valley of the Arno, ex—
tending on the E. to the mountains of Pratomagno (best by evening
light; adm. 1/9 fr.). — From the small piazza mentioned at p. 522 the
Via della Torre al Gallo (views) descends in 1/4 hr. to the Viale
dei Colli (station of the electric tramway, p. 434), whence we may
proceed to the right to (10 min.) the Piazzale Michelangelo and San
Miniato (comp. Map).

The road diverging to the right from the small square at Torre ai Gallo
leads to (7 min.) the Villa of Galileo, marked by a bust and inscri tion.
where the great astronomer passed the last years of his life (1 1-42).
surrounded by a few faithful friends and latterly deprived of sight, and
where he was visited by his illustrious contemporary Milton. — The road
then ascends in windin s to the church of Santa Harp/term: a Monltcs' and
to the Villa Haroccht, w ere Francesco auicdards'm‘ is said to have ﬁnished
his history of Italy. Here too, on 12th Aug., 1530, the Florentiues, who
had been betrayed by their general Malatesta Baglione, signed the articles
by which the city was surrendered to the Imperial troops and thus became
subject to the rule of the Medici. From that event the house derives its
name Villa delle Buyie (‘villa of lies‘).

(d. ) LA Cnu'rosa lies on the monotonous highroad to Slant, 3 M.
from the Ports Romana (Pl. A, 7; steam-tramway thence, see No. 1,
p. 434; also omnibus every 1/2 hr., 25 c.; can. 6 in, via Poggio
1m periale a little more). The steam-tramway ascends fro m the Ports
Romana to Gelaomino, below Pogyio Imperiale (p. 522), where it
unites with the electric line from the Piazza del Duomo (No. 8, p. 434).
At Due Strode it reaches the highroad to the Certosa. Farther on,
to the right, is the Protestant Cemetery of Florence (also used by
members of the Greek church), beyond which are the village of
Gallium (several unpretending trattorie, with gardens) and, a little
farther on, the brook Ema. On the hill of Montagulo, which is
clothed with cypresses and olive-trees, at the conﬂuence of the
Ema with the Grove and 5 min. above the road, rises the imposing
Certosa di Val d’Ema (375 ft), resembling a medieval fortress. The
monastery, which is approaching dissolution and contains a few in-
mates only, was founded in 1341 by Niccolo Acciajoli, a Flor-
entine who had settled at Naples and there amassed a large fortune
by trading. One of the monks (1-2 pers. 50 c.) shows the churches

and the monastery with its various cloisters.

Mam Cnuncn. Magniﬁcent pavement and tine carved stalls (of 1590)
in the choir; over the altar, Death of St. Bruno, a fresco by Poccem. —
Bren-r Sron-Cnunon, in the form of a Greek cross, the earliest building.
said to have been erected by Orcagna. with several small paintings of lhn
school of Giotto, including a good Trinity (in), and also an altar-piece by

