University. mums. 46. Route. 345

Bmp. Leopold I. found in 1683 in the tent of the grand-vizier Cara liustspha
liter the raising of the siege of Vienna; the ‘livre d'heures‘ (prayer-book)
of Henry 11.; two 14th cent. 1188. of Dante‘s ‘Divine Corned)"; a MS. of
the De Prospective Pinguendi by Petrus Pieter Burgensis (Piero della

' Francesca); a letter of Luther; Byzantine and Jewish miniatures; the
original ‘Fresco oi Correygia‘s Coronation of Mary from 8. Giovanni (p. 342);
but of Duchess Marie Louise by cassava.- a room with frescoes from the
‘Divine Comedy' by Franc. Scaramuna (1867).

The Tentro rune-e, also situated here (keys kept by the custodian
of the Antiquarian Museum, fee 30 c.), was erected in 1618438 by G. B.
Album, a pupil of Palladio, and has recentl been freely restored. — The
(formerly) ducal ﬁpogrqﬂa, founded in 17 by Badm, is celebrated for
its admirable printing.

The custodians of the picture-gallery keep the keys (fee 50 c.)
of the —

Convento di San Paolo (Pl. D, E, 2, 3), formerly a Benedictine
nunnery, now a school, containing admirably preserved ’Frescoes
by Correggio in aroom thus decorated by order of the nbbess Giovanna
dsPiacenza. in 1618-19: over the chimney-piece Diana, on the ceiling

, Cupids and emblems of the chase (the celebrated ‘Putti del Cor-
reggio'), on the frieze the Graces, Fortuna, Adonis, etc. The most
favourable light is in sunny weather, 10-4.

‘This, his ﬁrst work of a monumental character, shows the pointer
as already possessed of his full powers. The execution is in the highest
degree painstaking and minute. his handling even in fresco is delicate
and at the same time broad, soft, and warm. As in the later paintings
in the domes of the Cathedral and 8. Giovanni Evangelina, the decorative
arrangement seems to transcend the limits of the building, and force its
way through the ceiling, forming an arbour through which the light of
heaven appears to iind free ingress‘. —— Meyer‘s W299“.

The adjacent room is adorned with exquisite, slightly-ﬁgured
arabesques on a dark blue ground by Al. Araldi. — The monastery
Church (San Lodooico ,- Pl. D, E, 3) contains the monument of Field
Marshal Count Neipperg (d. 1829), the morganatic husband of the
Empress Marie Louise after the death of Napoleon, by Lor. Bartolim'.

To the S.W. of the PiezzaGaribaldi rises the University Pl. D, 4),
erected by Galeazzo Alessi (P), in the time ofOttavioFamese (1 th cent.),
as a Jesuit college. It contains various natural history collections.
The paleontological department (Director, Prof. P. Strobel), and the
”taco Zoologioo Eritrea Bott‘e’ga, a collection illustrating the fauna
of the Italian colonies in Africa (entrance Strode dell’ Universita,
No. 7), are especially worthy of inspection.

Quitting the museum and crossing the small river Panna by the
Pants Verde (Pl. 0, 3), we reach the Giardino Pubblico (P1. B, C, 2, 3;
closed at 7 p.m.), formerly the Ducal Garden, at the N. end of which
is the Palace del Giardino (Pl. B, C, 2), erected in 1564 by Odoardo
Fernese, and adorned with numerous frescoes. One of the apartments
contains the Rape of Europa, the Triumph of Venus, the Marriage
of Peleus and Thetis, etc., by Agostino Carracci. The palace is now
a military school and not always accessible.

The garden adjoins the Rampari, a promenade encircling the
town, and laid out on the site of the former fortiﬁcations. —— To the

