Pal. della mm. PARMA. 46. Route. 343

piazza, stands the ‘Iadonna della lteeoata (Pl. D, 3), an imitation
of St. Peter’s (a Greek cross with rounded ends), built by Bernar-
dino Zaccagni in 1521-39.

[11131103. The corner-chapel to the left of the entrance contains a
ladonna of the school of ﬁt. Manolo. In the corner-chapel between
the choir and the left transept, monuments (r.) of Duke Ottavio Farnese
and (1.) of Sforzino Sforza, the latter by Gian. Franc. do Grade (1529).
The archway of the chair is adorned with frescoes by Pamim'am‘no, the
tribune with frescoes by Amslmt. Corner-chapel on the right of the choir:
monument of Guido da Correggio, by G. B. Barbiert; the 1st chapel on
the right contains the monument of Beltrando Rossi (1527).

The Piazza adjoining the church is adorned with a Monument to
Francesco Mwola, surnamed Parmigianino (p. 341), the painter,
by Giov. Chierici, erected in 1879.

In the PIAZZA DELLA anrmna (Pl. D, 3), with its pretty
gardens, are a Statue of Victor Emmanuel II. and the old Palaszo
Decals, now the seat of the Prefcuum.

To the N.W. of the Prefettnrs is the Paiulo della Pilotta
(Pl. D, 3), an extensive block of buildings, begun in 1597 by the
Famcsc, but never completed, containing a very interesting collec-

' tion of antiquities and pictures as well as a considerable library (we
cross the court and ascend a broad ﬂight of steps to the left).

In the entresol is the Musao m Amour-rd (open daily 10-4,

adm. ifr.; on Sun. and festivals 10-2, gratis).

1. Room. Collection of Coins arranged in four cabinets. The two glass-
cues contain Parmesan coins and medals. — II. Roost. Bronzes: the Tabula
Alma-(aria of Trajan, containin directions for the maintenance of poor
children; bronze tablet with the z Rubric do Gallic Giselpina, and other
inscriptions on bronze, obtained in the excavations at Velleia (p. 338);
head of Hadrian in gilded bronze; bust of a young men; in the cases:
'Drunken Hercules, Bacchus, Victoria, Ajax, and other bronze stetuettes
from Velleia. Terrecottas; golden necklaces, bracelets, and clasps of the
later imperial epoch, found at Perms. — Ill. Boon. Architectural frag-
ments from the excavations (1844) in the ancient theatre of Parma. —
IV. Roon. Marble statues and fragments, chieﬂy from Velleia. The mural
decorations are by ham. Scaramuzza. — The V. R00): is closed at pres-
ent. —- VI. Roost. Choir-stalls with intarsionwork b Bonsai-ditto Canoe-1'0
do Lendtnara (149A); cabinets and ‘cassonl‘ of the 6-17th cent., etc. —
VII. Boon. Egyptian antiquities. — VIII. Boon. Vases. — IX. Boon.
Etruscan antiquities, cinerary urns, vases, bronze mirrors and ornaments;
objects found in a. tomb at Porta Ban Barnaba. — Then several rooms
with modern objects. — A staircase descends from the ﬁrst room to the
rooms on the groundﬂoor. — Rool I. Roman inscriptions. -— Boon II.
Valuable collection of pre-Romen antiquities found in the province of
Parma- weapons, implements of ﬂint bone, bronze, iron, and clay. —
Roan llI. Similar antiquities from t e ‘Terramare‘ (lake-dwellings) of
Castione. Adjoining are three rooms with ethnographical specimens. —
Boon IV. Medieval sculptures. -— Boon V. Medieval and modern ceramic
collection, including a majolice pavement from the church of Sen Paolo. —
100! VI. Medieval coats-of—arms.

The extensive ’PIc-runn Gunny is on the ﬁrst ﬂoor. Open at
same hours and on same terms as the Museo di Antichita (illustrated
catalogue 4 fr., abridgment 25 0.).

I. Boon: nothing worthy of note. — 1]. Boots. On the left, ‘871.

Giulio Romano (after a sketch by Raphael in the Louvre), Christ in glory,
With the Madonna, the Baptist, and 85. Paul and Catharine. 0n the

