rmzs. _ 54. Route. 395

is St. Apollinaris preaching to his ﬂoeki below, on the right, are the
sacriﬁces of Abel Melchisedech, and Abraham; on the left, the three
brothers Constant ne “1., Heraclius, and Tiberius, bestowing frivileges
on Archbisho Beparatus (ea. 671-71); between them are the our arch-
bishops Ursic nus, 8t. Ursns, St. Severus, and Eccleeius. — The Boon Anon
is also embellished with mosaics: in the centre a bust of Christ, at the sides
the symbolical ﬁgures of the Evangelists. and below them twelve apostles
(symbolized as sheep) hastening to Christ from the towns of Jerusalem and
Bethlehem.

The celebrated Pine Forest of Bavcnna, or La Pinata, which ex-
isted in the time of Odoacer and has been extolled by Dante, Boo-
caccio, Dryden, and Byron, begins about 1V4 M. beyond the church
of S. Apollinare (cab there and back 6 in). The severe winter of
1879-80 and a conﬂagration seriously injured it, but new trees have
been planted.

About 21!. to the 8. of Ravens. on the bank of the Reno, rises the
(Isthmus dd Gaston ds biz, erected in 1557, a memorial of the victory gained
on 11th April, 1512, by the united armies of Louis XII. of France and
Duke Alphonso I. of Fer-rare (at which the poet Ariosto was present) over
the Spanish troogs and those of Pope Julius ll. At the moment when the
victory was deci ed, the brave Gaston do Fat: fell (p. 131).

Trajan built an Aqueduct to supply Ravenna with water from the moun-
tains near (1) If.) Teodorano. Some remains of this structure, which was
restored by Theodoric, may be seen in dry weather in the bed of the Ronco
at San Bartolomeo, a little above Ravenua.

Railway from Ravenna la Ferrara, see p. 361; to Rimini, sce Baedeker‘s
Central Italy.

54. From Ravenna (or Bologna) to Florence via Faenza.

94V: 11. Runway in 5']; hrs. (fares 17 fr. 65, 12 fr. 40, 7 fr. 95 0.). Car-
riages are changed at Castel Bolognese and Faenza, and the ﬁrst morning
train is the only one that makes direct connection.

From Ravenna or Bologna to (26 M.) Cartel Bolognese, see p. 384.
31 M. Enema. (110 it.; Corona, R. 1-2 fr. ; Vittoria), the Pacers-
« tia of the ancient Boii, a pleasant town with 39,757 inhab., on the
. Lamone (the ancient Ammo), has given its name to a kind of majo—
1ica(fayence), the manufacture of which was at its zenith in the
15th and 13th cent. and has recently been again receiving attention.

The spacious Piazza Vittorio Emanuele is surrounded by the
Torre dcll’ Orologio, the Palatso del C‘omune, and the fine Csrnnnnsr.
or SAN Cos'rsNzo. The latter, a basilica with nave and aisles, was
begun in 1474 by Giuliano da Majano of Florence, and contains
the tomb of St. Savinus, by Benedetto da Majano (1472).

The Via Seyeroli leads to the right from the S.W. angle of the
piazza to the secularized convent of Santa Maria dclt’ Angela, on the
ﬁrst ﬂoor of which is the municipal Pmscorscs, with some good
paintings, chieﬂy by artists of the Romagna, a few sculptures, and
some ﬁne majolica. The sculptures include a colossal group of the
Virgin and the two SS. John, by Ant. Begarclli, a wooden statue of
St. Jerome, by Donatello, and a marble bust of John the Baptist,
probably by Ant. Rrsscllino.

From Ema to Aroma, see Baedskcr’: Gastral Italy.

