Via eat-mu, Via Balbi. GENOA. 16'. Route. 79

Portrait; so. FYZWM Lippi, Madonna and angels, with SS. Francis, Sebas-
tian, and John the Baptist (1505); 38. Palm Vecchio, Madonna, with the
Magdalen and the Baptist; 48. Gorregpia, Madonna adoring the child (copy).

R. VI and Gallery I. Paintings of the Genoeae school and drawings.
In'the gallery, 6. L. Gambian, Diana and Calisto. — ILVII. Genoese frescoes.
The cases contain antique vases.

R. VIII. Italian paintings of vari‘bus schools. In the middle, a bridal
bed 0! the Brignole family (17th cent.). —- Gallery 11. Venetian lace, ec-
clesiastical vestments (17th cent.), miniatures, and small sculptures.

R. IX. Modern paintings. In the cases are antique lamps, vases, glass,
and coins. — R. X. Majolica from Havana and elsewhere. Collection of
porcelain.

Crossing the small Piazza della Meridisna to the N.W., we enter
the VIA Canton (Pl. E, D, 4). At the end of this street, No. 18, on
the left, is the Palazzo Balbi (by Greg. Petondi , 18th century),
through which a ﬁne view is obtained of the lower-lying Via Lo-
mellini (p. 73). — We then cross the Largo della Zecca (Pl. D, 3),
with the station of the Cable Tramway to the Via di Circonvallazione
aMonte (p. 84) and Gastellaccio (p. 84), and reach the Via alla
‘Nnnziata. No. 15 in this street (on the right) is the Palarzo Cat-
taneo delta Volta (not always open), containing on the ﬁrst ﬂoor
eleven partly injured portraits by Van Dyok, the best of which is
that of a lady with a negro holding up a red parasol.

In the neighbouring PIAZZA DnnL’ANNurtzura (Pl. D,3) rises the
former Gapuchin church of ‘Santissima Annnnu‘ata del Vastato,
erected by Giac. delta Porto in 1587. The portal is borne by marble
columns; brick facade otherwise unﬁnished. This sumptuous church
is a well-proportioned basilica with a dome; the interior was adorned
in the 17th cent. with gilding and with frescoes by the Carlene and
other artists.

In the left transept the altar-piece is a coloured wooden roup of the
Communion of St. Pasquale, by Maragliano (1723). The sacr sty contains
a Descent from the Cross, by Maragliano (1726); the colouring is modern.

In the handsome VIA BALBI (Pl. D, C, 3, 2), on the right, No. 1,
is the Palazao Durazzo-Pallaviclni, formerly della Scala, built by
Bart. Bianca (‘2), with a handsome facade, a fine vestibule, and a
superb staircase (left) added by Andrea Tagliaﬁco at the end of the
18th century. 0n the ﬁrst ﬂoor (bell to the right, at the back) is
the l'G‘allcria Duranc-Pallavicini (adm., see p. 70).

The Axrrssm contains busts of the Durazzo-Pallavicini family. —
11- ltoox (to the leﬁ, beyond R. 11L). Left: Gusrcino, Mucius Scmvola
before Porsenna; Van Dynkﬂ), Portrait of a man; Rubens, ”Bilenus with
Buchantes (ca. 16(3); An. Carr-acct, Re entant Magdalen; Imitator of You
W1 Large family group (James I. of great Britain with his family). —
111- oou. Bern. Strozzt, Portrait of a bishop; Guercino, The tribute-
money; Titian, Magdalen (school-piece). — IV. Roox. Guido Rent, Carith
Romans; Paolo Vsronere, Marriage of St. Catharine (school-piece); Guido
Rgni. Cleopatra; Rubens ('1), Portrait, a round picture; Ribera, St. James;
Tum-elm, Portrait of Marchese Agostino Durazzo; Guido Bali, Porcia Ro-
lllana; H. Rigaad, Marehese lppolito Durazzo. Admirable porcelain vases
in the centre of the room. -—- V. Roon. Paintings relating to the myth
0i Achilles by unimportant Genoese masters. Beautiful Chinese porcelain. —
V1. Roost. Domenichino, Risen Christ appearing to his mother, Death of
Adonis; Van Dyck, ‘Boy in white satin; Van Dyck (?), Young Tobias; Van

