298 Route 42. VENICE. a. From St. Mark to

*Ban Giobbe (Pl. 0, 2; open till noon), an early—Renaissance
church begun in 1462 and ﬁnished after 1471 by Ant. Gambcllo
and Pietro Lombardo. It has a ﬁne portal.

Len- AISLE. The second chapel, built by aFlorentine (perhaps Franc.
ds‘ Simone), has a handsome marble altar and a. ceiling adorned with
glazed terracotta reliefs of the Evangelists, from the workshop of Luca
delta Robbin. — In the Olson: and in the recess to the left are charming
'Ornamentation and Beliefs by Pietro Lombardo; on the ﬂoor, the tomb-
stone of Dog: Malafm‘a Hora (d. 1471), founder of the church. — In the
chapel to the right of the choir is an Adoration of the Shepherds, by
Suvolda. —— In the adjacent Sacnrs-rr: Andr. heme", Marriage of St. Ca~
tharine; portrait of Dogs Cristoforo Moro, of the school of Bellini.- terracotta
bust of St. Bernard (15th cent.)

Nearly opposite the church is the Protestant House for Boys
(p. 264). — The house No. 968 Fondamenta delle Penitente (Pl. 0,2)
was occupied by J. J. Rousseau in 1743-44.

d. From the Pians. of St. Hark to the Binlto Bridge and the
Northern Quarters.

The Mercer-is (Pl. G, 5), which enters the Piazza of St. Mark
under the clock-tower (p. 275), is the principal business-street of
Venice, containing attractive shops. It leads direct to the Rialto
Bridge. In the second short street to the right is —

San Giuliano (‘San Zuh'an’; Pl. G, 5), erected by Sansovino
in 1553. Over the portal is the bronze statue of the founder, the

jurist Thomas of Ravenna, in a sitting posture, by the same master.

lxrsuon. 1st Altar to the left: Boccaccio Bocaaccino, Madonna and
four saints. Chapel to the left of the high-altar: Git-clams kmpagna‘s Dying
Christ supported by angels, a relief in marble; adJacent, the Virgin and
St. John, bronze statues, also by Gampagna; school of Paolo Vet-mun, Last
Supper. Above the high-altar: Giro]. da Santa Croce, Coronation of the
Virgin. — Good light necessary.

Returning to the Merceria, we soon observe the lofty choir of
S. Salvatore appearing between the houses.

"Ban Salvatore (Pl. G, 5; comp. p. 266), erected by Giorgio
Spavmto and Tullio Lombardo in 1506-34 (baroque facade 1663),
is surmounted by three ﬂat domes resting on circular vaulting,
which is supported in turn on square domed corner-spaces. Burch-
hardt styles it the ﬁnest modern church in Venice.

Rrour AISLE. Between the 1st and 2nd altars: Monument of Proc.
Andrea Dolﬁn (d. 1609.) and his wife; on the 2nd altar: Madonna with
angels, by Campagna; adjacent, Monument of Dogs Franc. Venier (d. 1556),
with a line figure of Hope (r.), by Samantha. Over the 8rd altar ‘It'tr'au‘s
Annunciation, executed in his 89th year, in which ‘the grandeur attained
brings the painter as near to Michaelangelo in conception as it was possible
for Titian to come‘ (0. it 0.): the frame is by Samovino. —- Rmn'r Tnmnn.
In the middle is the monument of Catharine Cornaro (d. 1510), Queen of
Cyprus, who abdicated in 1489 in favour of Venice (see . 266). — Caora.
Transfiguration, high-altar-piece by Titian, painted, like t e Annunciation,
about 1660 (injured; covered; best light at midday); the chased silver
altar-covering with numerous ﬁgures of saints, ete., executed about 1290,
is seen only on high festivals. — Chapel on the left: ‘Christ at Emmaus,
perhaps by Gior. Bellini (covered). — Len TEANBBPT. Monument of three
cardinals of the Corner family; below, Baptism of Christ by N. Rentert‘. '

