526 Route 59. masons. Envirom

exporter of plants which is interesting to botanists and horticulturalists
(permessi at Via éhibellina 6D.

Sesto is the best starting-point for an ascent of lento Horello (335 ft.;
there and back 8-7 hrs.). We go vii Doccl'a (p. 525) to (11/: hr.) Le
Malina, whence we proceed to the left, vii Manila, to (25 min.) Oualdo,
where the easier of the two paths to the summit diverges beyond the church.
Passing (10 min.) a cattle-shed (to the left), we reach the S.E. peak, La
Canada (3020ft.), which is crowned with a mined convent and commands
an extensive and splendid view. The highest peak, named L‘Aja, is
reached in 1/4 hr. more. In returning we may proceed to the N3. vii
Paloma to the rail. stat. of Vagua( . 398) or we may follow the ridge
to the 8.13. to the Pogm'o del Giro ft.) and go on to Florence vii
Castiyltom‘, Cerdna. and Oarewt (p. 625).

(9.) FIBSOLE, on the height about 3 M. to the N.E. of Florence,
may be reached by walkers in 11/2 hr. The most convenient o! the
various routes is oﬂ'ered by the electric tramway (No. 4; p. 434;
best views on the right). The steep old road between San Domenico
and Fiesole should be traversed once at least on foot for the sake
of the beautiful views. (Visit to the Radio, see p. 524.) Those
who go by carriage (about 8 fr.; comp. p. 433) should stipulate for
the inclusion of the Badia; the return may be made from Fiesole
vi‘a Vincigliata (p. 529) and Panic a Hensola (p. 529; one-horse
carr. about 10-12 fr.). — The electric tramway leads from the Piazza
del Duomo through the Piazza dell’ Annunziata (Pl. G, 3, 4; p. 48?.)
and the Piazza Savonarola (Pl. 1, 2) to the Barrier-a delta Queue,
where the precincts of the city are left. It then crosses the railway
0 Rome and ascends to San Geroasio, soon ati'ording a ﬁne view
of the hills on the 8. bank of the Arno. Beyond Le Lune (‘Hét-
Pens. Le Lune) the route winds up through a picturesque hilly
district to San Domenico (see below).

Psoasrnrsns proceed by the Piazza Cavour (Pl. H, l, 1), where s
triumphal arch, erected in 1739, commemorates the entry of Grand-duke
Francis IL. to the Barriers. delle Cure (comp. Pl. 1, I; omn., see p. Bi)
and ascend the Via Boccaceio to the N.E., on the left bank of the Hw-
MM, an insigniﬁcant stream. The Villa Palmieri, the 88gropcrty of the
Earl of Crawford, where Queen Victoria resided in 1 , is passed on
the right. Boccacelo makes this the residence of the narrator-s in his
‘Deeamerone‘ during the plague in 1348. [The Villa Ghana-do or Ross. on
the way to Settignann (p. 529), is supposed to have been the ﬁrst meeting-
place of the story-tellers, whence they afterwards migrated by a path
full west' to the Villa Palmieri.] The road then ascends rapidly between
garden-walls to San Domenico. - Another route for walkers ascends from
the Barriera della Querce (see above) to the N.E. by the Via delle For-hid.
over the hill of Forbici, passing the Serbatoto della Quercs (1.) and the
Villa Dante (1.). The latter, which was owned by the Dante family about
300, was remodelled by the Portinarl (p. 456) in the 15th cent. and now
belongs to Signor Bondi. Following the Via della Piazzola we reach Sal
Domenico in i]. hr. more. .

Ban Domenico di Fiesole (485 ft.; Bistorante San Domenico)
is a small cluster of houses at the base of the hill of Fiesole. In
the Dominican monastery founded here in 1405 the pious PM
Giovanni Angelica da Ficsolc lived before his removal to San Marco
at Florence. The choir of the church contains 8 Madonna with
saints, painted by him (let chapel on the left), and an altar-piece.

