and Environs. VENICE. 42. Route. 273

According to an old traditionthe emperor kneeling before the pope said,
‘mm tibi sad Petra‘, to which the pope replied ‘st ml'ht’ ct Pelro‘. — In the
next arch, Noah, and the Tower of Babel; 3rd Dome, History 0! Abraham;
4th (corner) Dome, Joseph‘s dream, Joseph sold by his brethren, and Jacob‘s
lament; 5th and 8th Domes, Joeeph in Egypt; 7th Dome, History of Moses.

The middle and right Bronze Doors are adorned with ﬁgures of
saints in enamel (niello) work, and are of Byzantine origin.

The ”Interior consists of nave and aisles, crossed by a transept with
aisles, with ﬁve domes and an apse. Its charm consists in the beauty of
the main lines, the noble perspectives and the magniﬁcent decoration.
The Pavement of marble mosaic dates mm the 12th century. The Mosaics
have lost their venerable appearance by recent restoration, but have gained
in magniﬁcence. Above the door are Christ, the Virgin, and St, Mark
(13th cent.); in the arch above, the Apocalypse by Zuccalo (1579); within,
above the inner door, Christ, the Virgin, and St. John (the most ancient
mosaic; 10th cent.).

Nave. The foot of the Khmer on the right is enriched with ﬁne
antique reliefs. The Nomi“ in the right aisle represent Christ in Geth-
semane, with legends of the Apostles above (12th cent); 1st Dome, De-
scent of the Holy Ghost; in the left aisle, Paradise, and Martyrdom of the
Apostles (16th cent.). At the beginning of the left aisle is a gilded By-
tsntine relief of the Madonna (10th cent.), and the Altar by the central
pillar on the left has an elegant Byzantine canopy. — The Monica in the
central dome of the nave represent the Ascension, and those on the S.
and W. ribs, scenes from the Passion (12th cent.). The other mosaics are
chieﬂy of the 16th and 17th centuries. By the screen, right and left of the
approach to the high-altar, are two Pulpits (amhones) in coloured marble,
Supported on columns. 0n the Screen are fourteen statues in marble by
the brothers Managua (1393): St. Mark, the Virgin, and the A ostles, with
s gilded Cruciﬁx. On the Rood Arch above, ﬁne mosaics by intoretto. —
Lln Than-arr: above, on the left, a Mosaic of 1542, representing the
genealogy of Mary; ﬁne Renaissance Altar, and two bronze Candelabra,
dating from 1520. To the left is the Cappella dot Hascoli (1430), with
mosaics (Death of the Virgin) by Michal atambm after designs by Andrea
M Castaano of Florence(?). Adjoining is the dappslla di San!‘ Isidore,
with the tomb of the saint. — The Bron-r Tuner-r also contains two
bronze Candelabra, of the end of the 18th century. — In the corner Is the
entrance to the Treasury (see below). .

To the right and left of the Client is tasteful Renaissance panelling,
above which are six reliefs in bronze (three on each side), by Jae. Banso~
Dino, from the life of St. Mark. To the left is the throne (Nadia Patri-
(H‘cale) of the archbishop, by ﬂames-do (1895). — On the balustrade of the
Stalls are (centre) the four Evangelists in bronze, by Samantha, and
Isidcs) four Fathers of the church, by Girolamo Caliari (1614).

The High Altar (Altar: Haulers) stands beneath a canopy of verde
mtico borne by four columns of marble with reliefs of the 11th century.
The ' ala d‘Oro, enamelled work with jewels, on plates of gold and silver,
:xecuted at Constantinople in 1105 for the front of an altar, forms the
liter-piece; it was rearranged in the 14th cent. and furnished wrth Gothic
ldditions. It is uncovered at Easter only, but is shown daily except on
estivals, t2-2, by tickets (50 c.) obtained on the ﬁrst ﬂoor of the .Fab-
)riceria‘ of St. Mark‘s, reached from the chapel adjoining the chorr_ on
be left (tickets for the treasury are also obtained here). nder the high-
.ltar repose the relics of St. Mark, as the marble slab at the back records.
— Behind the high-altar is a second Altar with four spiral columns of
dabaster, said to have belonged to the Temple of Solomon, of which the
wo white ones in the middle are translucent. The Mosaics in the Dome
epresent Christ surrounded by Old Testament saints; those of the apse,
)hrist enthroned (1506). The door leading to the sacristy, to the left,
iehind the high-altar, bears reliefs of the Entombment and Resurrection
If Christ, and admirable heads of Evangelists and Prophets (331d ‘0 he
Aortraits of the leading Venetian artists of the time) executed in bronze
iy Eamovtaw (1556).

“Balance. Italy 1. 12th Edit. 18 '

