of Florence. CAMALDOLI. 59. Route. 533

mands a wide *View, extending in clear weather from the Tyrrhenian
Sea to the Adriatic; descent to the Alp Stradelta, 1 hr.; vii the
Giogana di Scali and the Prato dt Butane to the Sam Eero (see
below) 4 hrs., back to Camaldoii 3/4 hr. (in the reverse direction,
from Camaldoli to the Falterona, 7 hrs.). — Hurried travellers may
ascend direct to the E. from Stia, via(1‘/¢ hr.)Lonnmo, to(41/2 hrs.)
the Prato di Bertone (see below), and descend thence via Sacra
Eré'mo to (11/; hr.) Camaldoli (guide desirable).

The suppressed abbey of Cunaldoli (2717 ft.; ‘Grande Albergo,
pens. with wine 12 fr.; Restaurant, on the groundﬂoor, cheaper) is
prettily situated in a narrow wooded valley. It was founded in
1012 by St. Romuald (d. 1027) but frequently destroyed by fire
and devastated by war. The environs are wild and beautiful.
A steep road ascends to (11/. hr.) the Sacra Erimo (3680 ft.), a
monastery with hermitages, founded in 1046 and surrounded by
ﬁne pine-woods.

The name of the lace is said to be derived from Campus Maldoli,
after a certain pious ount Maldolus, who presented it to his friend 8t.
Romuald. From this spot the reputation of the order for austere discipline,
sanctity, end erudition extended throughout the whole of Italy, although
the number of their cloisters was never great. Camaidoli, as well as
Vallombrosa, lost its valuable library and many treasures of art through
the rapacity of the French in 1809.

The 'Views from the narrow ridge of the A ennines at the back of
Sacro Eremo especially from the summit which 5 not planted with trees
called the ’ﬁrato dt Bet-(m or the Prato at Segue, are very extensive an
beautiful. To the RE. the houses of Forli may be distinguished in clear
weather, still farther off the site of “avenue, and in the extreme distance
the glittering Adriatic; W. the chain of the Pratomaguo, the lower valley
of the Arno as far as Pisa and Leghorn, and beyond them the Mediter-
ranean. The spectator here stands on one of the summits of the ‘back-
bone of Italy‘, whence innumerable mountains and valleys, as well as
the two diﬂ'erent sees. are visible.

Walkers from Camaldoli may reach the highroad from Cesena
to Bibbiena in 11/2hr. by a rough and stony track, and then proceed
vii Pas-tine. to (6 M.) Bibbicna (p. 534). If time allows, however,
the road from Camaidoli to (71/, M.) Poppi (p. 534) is preferable.
In the opposite direction Csmaidoli may be reached by carriage from
Poppi in '2, from Bibbiena in 21/2 hrs.

Fnox Gammon 10 La Vanna on foot. Pedestrians should
select the beautiful but fatiguing route (with guide) via the Sacro
Eremo and the village of (‘2 hrs.) Badia a Pralaglia (2765 ft. ; Hot.
Mulinscci; Locanda Trinci; Pens.Boscoverde, English, 8 fr.), which
lies on the above-mentioned road from Bibbiena to Cesena. Thence
we proceed to the S.E. to (2 hrs.) Caressa and descend along the
stream of that name to (3/4 hr.) Biforco, at its conﬂuence with the
Corsalone. We then ascend along the Corsslone and through plan-
tations of oaks to (21/4 hrs.) a stony upland plain, interspersed with
marshes. Above this rises the abrupt sandstone mass of the Verna,
to a height of 850 ft. 011 its S.W. slope, one-third of the way up, and
3660 ft. above the sea-level, is seen a wall with small wind0ws, the

