418 Route 57. LUGGA. . From Pm

The beautiful stained glass in the Chore is by Pandol/o di Uyoh'uo do
I’m: (1485). — To the left of the choir the Anna or Linn-rt, which
Lucca recovered in 1369 from Emp. Charles IV. (inscription: Christa libera-
tori atque dicta tutelaribru), with a Resurrection by 0601:. do Bologna (1579).
In the following Carranza mar. Saxruamo (to the left; closed) dating
from 1629-37, a "Madonna with SS. Stephen and John and a bean angel
with amusical instrument, by Fro Bartolomeo (£509; in excellent pro
servation): ‘a noble picture this, full of gentle elegance, Leonardesque
in science and in execution, and graced with the prettiest ﬁnesses of the
brush, bathed in a warm and airy vapour, and firm of outline and touch‘
(C. J: 0.). The decorations of the pilasters are by Giotto“.

The Lnrr Tamas" contains the 'Sarcophagus of Ilaria del Carretto
(d. 1405), second wife of Paolo Guinigi, by Jacopo delta Querct‘a (1413), one
of the earliest works of the Renaissance.

' In the Len AISLE is in Tnxrrnrro, a small octagonal chapel of marble,
partially gilded, erected in 1484 by 1!. Cicl'tali, and containing the Voila
Homo di Lucca (p. 421), an ancient cruciﬁx in cedar-wood, said by tradi-
tion to have been made by 8!. Nicodemus, and to have been transferred in
a miraculous manner from the Holy Land to Lucca in 782. The embroid-
ery on the red curtain is a faithful copy of the sacred relic behind it. In
front of the entrance is suspended a candelabrum of solid gold, 24 lbs. in
weight, presented by the inhabitants of Lucas in 1836, when the approach
of the cholera was dreaded. 0n the opposite side ,a statue of St. Sebu
tian, also by Cicr‘tali. 0n the pavement close by, inlaid work of coloured
stones, representing Solomon‘s Judgment — At the 5th altar (from the en-
trance), Visitation of the Virgin by Jacopo Ligoui i596). Over the 2nd
altar Presentation in the Temple, by AI. sum (1 ).

(in the ENTRANCE WALL, Descent from the Cross, and St. Nicodemus
carving the Volto Santa, frescoes by Cosimo Results.

The cathedral treasury is preserved in the Amministrasiom dd
Duomo, on the N. side of the church, Piazza Antelminelli 2. it
includes the so-called Croce dei Pisani, in silver-gilt (14th cent),
a Gothic episcopal staff, a Gothic leather casket, with scenes from
Scripture history, etc.

Behind the cathedral, and connected with it by a passage, is the ‘

Ancunzrrscopsr. PALACE (Arcivercovado; Pl. 1, D 3), the court of
which commands a good view of the cathedral-spec.

The Archiepisuopat Library contains 20 M88. and 400 rare editions.
In the Archives are many documents, dating from before 1000. — The
Chapter Library (Bibliotheca Feliniana) is rich in medieval M88.

The elegant Gothic Chapel of Santa Maria della Rosa (Pl. 9;
D, 3), in the neighbouring Via della Ross, dates from 1309, but the
interior Was entirely modernized in 1609.

We return to the Piazza San Martino. The Romanesque build-
ing (partly restored) next the campanilo of the cathedral is now
the Monte di Pitta. —- Opposite, on the N. side of the piazza, rises
the Palazzo Bernardi-Micheletti (P1. 20), by Bart. Ammauati.

San Giovanni (Pl. 4; D, 3), to the left of the last, isabasiliu
of the 12th cent., with aisles and transept. The facade is modern,
with the exception of the portal, over which there is a relief of
the Madonna with the Apostles, of the 12th century.

in the Insurer: the ﬂat coﬁ'ered ceiling is supported by ten column
of which the shafts and some of the capitals are ancient. —Adjo
the left transept is a venerable Bapttucry, with a Gothic vaulted roof (“lb
cent). The remains of a. font of the 12th cent. more than 6ft. below
the present level of the pavement, were exhumed in the centre in 1887.

