502 Route 58. FLORENCE. f. Santa Maria Novella.

as goals. — 0n the Looou m SAN Paono, an arcade opposite the
church, erected in 1489—96, is a good terracotta-relief by Andrea
delta Robbia, representing the meeting of St. Francis and St. Do-
minic. — The canopy at the comer of 'the Via della Seals (p. 504)
is by Franc. Fiormtino, a pupil of Lorenzo Monaco (15th cent).

The church of 'Santa Maria Novella. (Pl. D, 3), begun in 1278
on the site of an earlier ediﬁce, from designs by the Dominicaumonh
Fm Sisto and Fm Riatoro, and completed in the interior after 1350
by Fra Jae. Talmtt, is ‘perhaps the purest and most elegant example
or Tuscan Gothic’. In 1456-70 it was furnished with a beautiful
marble facade (begun in the lower, Gothic portion as early as about
1350) and a ﬁne portal, executed by Giov. Bertim‘ from the designs

. 01’ Leon Battista Alberti, who ﬁrst employed volutes here to connect
the nave and aisles. A quadrant and two concentric meridians on
the right and left were constructed by P. Ignazio Danti in 1572. —
The pointed arcades (‘avelli’ Le. vaults) of black and white marble,
which adjoin the church on the E., were originally constructed in the
14th cent., and were restored in 1870; they were used as tombs for
the nobility. The best view of the medieval building, with its

tasteful campanile (restored in 1895), is obtained from the N.E. side.

The spacious Interior, in the form of a vaulted Gothic basilica, con~
sists oi nave and aisles resting on 12 alternately thin and thick iers. his
325“. long and 93 ft. wide; the transept is 202 ft. in length. eunequal
distances between the pillars, varying from 37 it. to 49 ft., are an as-
explained peculiarity. (The visitor is warned not to overlook the two sic)!
halfway up the church.)

Nave. On the entrance -wall, to the left of the central door, the
'Trinity with the Virgin and St. John and two donors, in fresco (much

injured), one of the best works of Matacct'o; on the right, Annunciatiol, .

fresco of the 14th century. Over the door, a cruciﬁx in the style of Giotto.
_ The altar-pieces are by Vasars‘ (4th altar on the left, Resurrection)
Jae. Lfgozn', etc. -— In the RIGHT Tnsxsm, to the right, monument oi
Bishop Aliotti (d. 1336) by Tina ds' Camaino; further on, the Gothic monu—
ment of the Patriarch Joseph of Constantinople (d. 1440), who died while
attending the Great Council of 1439 (p. Ml). Above the monument is 1
Madonna by Nine Pizarro. — We now ascend the steps to the Cayman
Rucnnnar, which contains a large Madonna with angels, by (Sir-MCI.
This is the picture which, according to Vasari was borne in solemn pro-
cession from the painter‘s studio to the church (ca. 1980), ‘followed by the
whole population, and with such triumph and rejoicing: that the quarter
where the painter dwelt obtained the name, which it has ever since
retained, of Borgo Allegri’ (Lindsay‘s ‘Christian Art‘). In this chapel are
also the monument of Beata Villana by Bernardo Rossells'no (15.51) and a
Martyrdom of St. Catharine by Bugiards'ni (partly copied from a drawing
by Michael Angelo). — To the right of the choir is the Caner. or Prune
S'rnozzr, with his ‘Monument by Ben. da Malone (1491), and frescoes by
Filipps‘uo Lippi (1502): on the left, St. John resuscitating Drusisns, and
Martyrdom 0 St. John in a caldron of boiling oil; on the rigt, St. Philip
exorcising a dragon; above is a ﬁne stained~glass window r a cartoon
by Iiupptno.

The CHOIR contains ‘Frescoes by Domenico Ght‘rlandqjo, which fon-
that maater‘s most popular work, and are also the ﬁnest specimen of
Florentine art before Leon. daVinci, Michael Angelo, and Raphael. Accord-
in to the inscription they were painted ‘anno 1&90, quo puleherrirna civitas
Op bl“ victor-lie Briibus, aediﬁciisque nobilis copia salubritate pace per-

ruebstur‘. 0n the upper part of the wall of the altar is s Coronation of

