1‘» m

.Palauo de’ Diamanti. FERRARA. 50. Ram. 359

preserved and these are much damaged. The ﬁnest are on the E. wall,
opposite the entrance. In the upper- row are the gods of the months in
triumzhal chariots and allegorica representations of the months. These
and t e signs of the zodino (in the middle) are by pupils of Cosimo Tetra.
In the lower row are scenes from the life of Borso and employments of
men in the various months, by Franc. Gena. —- The show-cases contain
51 'Ohoir Books from the University Library, 18 dating from 1449, with
miniatures by Giuniforte Vimmercato of Milan, the remainder from 1488;
also a MS. Bible, written by Matteo d‘Aiessandria (1169-78); and an early
Padnan printed ,copy (1-173) of the Decretum Gratiani, with exquisite
miniatures.

The San nlou Broccnr (the former vestibule), richly decoroted with
ﬁne mouldings (frieze and ceiling) by Dom. at Paris of Padua (1487), and
an adjoining room contniu Egyptian, Greek, Roman, and Christian anti-
quities, and also a valuable collection of coins. The latter includes 400
Ferrarese coins besides Renaissance medals and plaquettes by Pt‘saneilo,
Matteo de‘ Pam, Harucoltr', Sperandio, etc. The Venetian rash-i, or ships’
prows, are trophies from the naval battle on the P0 in 1509, in which
Arlosto, then in the service of Cardinal Hippolytus d‘Este, probably
took part.

To the S. of Santa Maria in Vado, in the Via Ports d’Amore, is
the ano Costsbili or Palazzo Calcagnint (Pl. F, 7), erected for
Lodovioo il Moro (p. 111), but left uncompleted. Handsome court.
On the groundtioor to the left are two rooms with excellent ceiling-
frescoes by Ercole Grandi: in the ﬁrst, prophets and sibyls; in
the second, scenes from the Old Testament in grieaille.

In the neighbouring Via Formignana, on the SE. verge of the
town, is the elegant little Renaissance church of La Madonm'na
(Pl. F, 7), designed by Alb. Schiatti. — Behind it, by a bastion of
the same name, rises the Montagnone (Pl. G, 7), extolled by Tessa,

sud now a public promenade.

Outside the Ports Romans (P1. F, 8; omn., see p. 366), is the church
of Son Giorgio, where Pope Eu ene IV. 0 ened the Council convened in
1438 with a View to street a un on of the reek and Roman churches, in
the presence of the Greek Emp. John Palmologus. This locality being
considered unhealthy, the seat of the Council was afterwnrds trsnsferred
to Florence. The church contains the tomb of Bishop Lor. Roverella, by
Ambrogr’o do Hilano (1475), some of the ornaments executed in the studio

I 0! AM. Rouriltno. The line tower was built by Magic Rossetti (1485).

The N. Qumran, or ‘Addizione Erculea’, built by Hercules I.
in 1492 et seq., is traversed by two main streets, the Gene Vittorio
Emanuele and the Corso di Porto Po and di Porta Marc. At their
intersection (Pl. D, E, 3) are situated four handsome palaces, the
ﬁnest of which are the Renaissance Palasxo Prosper-i, built about
1600, with a ﬁne portal (Pom de‘Leoni) and admirable ornamen-
tation, and the —

231qu de’ Diamnnti, so called from the peculiar facets of the
stones with which the building is covered, a handsome early-Re-
naissance structure, erected for Sigismundo d’Este by Biagio Rossetti
in 1492, though not completed until 1567. It contains the Ateneo
Oios'oo and the important ‘Cr'vic Picture Gallery, most of the works
in which belong to the School of Fer-ram,- for Gerofalo, see p. 356.

