mum. FLORENCE. 58. Route. 441

among whom was the poet Dante Alighieri, were banished. The poorer
families of the nobility entered the greater guilds. and a new aristocracy
arose, romiaent among whom were the Acciajoli, Alberti, Buonaccorsi,
Mancini, Peruzzi, Rucellai, Stroz'Ai. and Riot-i. The lower ranks of the
people — the popolo minuto — were still excluded from ofﬁce. A large
portion of the city was burned down in 1304, during a contest between
the nobles and the people. in the meantime various attempts had been
made to secure peace and order by appointing a foreign prince as lord. of
the city. Walter of Brianne, Duke of Athens, the last of these governors,
abolished the constitution by force in 1342. but in the following year he
was expelled. Power now fell into the hands of an oligarehy, mainly
consisting of recently enriched commercial families, who exercised an in-
ﬂuence on every department of government through the ‘Cepitani di Parte
Guelfa‘, appointed to administer the estates of the Ghihelline citizens. The
position and the sentiments of the burghers had been much altered by
commercial crises, such as that of 1346, by famine, and by the plague
of 1348, of which Boccaccio has left a description. An insurrection of
the poorer classes —- the ‘Tumulto dei Ciompi‘ — in 1378 was followed by
three years of anarchy and confusion, until the helm was once more seized
by the aristocratic party, headed by the Albs‘us'. Haw Albizzt (d. 1417) was
succeeded by his son Rinaldo, with whom were associated Niccolo do Uzzano
and Palla Strozzi. Under these rulers Florence enjoyed the greatest pro-
sperity; successful campaigns were waged against. the Visconti of Milan
and Lndislaus of Naples; Pisa was captured in 1400, Cortona in 1411, Leg.
horn in 1421. The opulence of the city increased, and the lower clones,
encouraged by their rapid prosperity, now sought a share in the govern-
ment. Among the ‘Populani‘ who were carried along on the crest of
the wave, now appear the Me ici, who had acquired immense wealth by:
series of successful ﬁnancial speculations (see the Genealogy on p. M2).
The founder of the Medici dynasty was Giovanni do” Medici" (d. 1429).
His son Cosmo was overthrown by the Albizzi in 1:133, but returned after
an exile of one year, and resumed the reins of government with almost
grincely magniﬁcence, without, however, interfering with the outward
forms of the republican constitution. A war with Milan was terminated
2y the victory of Auﬂhiari in 1440. Pope Eugenins IV., who lived in
i‘lorence from 1AM till 1443, transferred hither in 1439 the Council of
t‘errara (p. 359), by which the union of the Roman and Greek churches
ms decreed. Cosimo employed his wealth liberally in the advancement
yf art and science, he was the patron of Brunelleschi, Donatello, Miche-
ozzo, Masaccio, and Lippi, and hc founded the Platonic Academy (p. “3)
.nd the Medici Library. At the close of his life he was not undeservcdly
nrnamed pater patriae by the Florentines. He was succeeded by his
nfirm son Piero in 1:164, and in 1469 by his grandson Lonnnzo, surnamed
I Magnifico, who, as n statesman, poet, and patron of art and science
ttaincd a very high reputation. Florence now became the great centre oi
be Renaissance, the object of which was to revive the poetry, the ele-
uence, and the art and science of antiquity. Contemporaneously with the
10st eminent artists the brilliant court of the Medici was graced by the
ariiest of modern philologists. The conspiracy of the Pazzi (1478), to which
.orenzo‘n brother Giuliano fell a victim, did not avail to undermine the
ower of this ruler, but brought the bloody revenge of the people on
is opponents. Lorenzo knew both how to defend himself against ex-
:rnai dangers by prudent alliances, and to secure his position at home
y lavish expenditure and a magnificent style of living, which, however,
'as.partly maintained b the public treasury. He died at Careggi on April
th, 1492, at. the age of years. an absolute prince in all but the name.
After the death of Lorenzo, the Florentine love of liberty, largely ex
ted by the voice of the Dominican friar Girolamo Savonarola, rebelled
gainst the magniﬁcent rule of the Medici. Hero, the feeble son of L0-
anzo, resigned the frontier‘fortresses into the hands of Charles VIII. of
ranee, on his campaign against Naples, and, on the king‘s departure, he
as expelled, with his brothers Giovanni and Giuliano, and the government
xtrusted to a democratic Great Council (1494). Savonarole. having attacked

