144 Route 19. CEBTOSA DI PAVIA. Excursions

1782. was restored to its original destination in 1844 and presented
to the Carthusians. Since the suppression of the Italian monasteries
(1866) it has been maintained as a ‘National Monument‘.

An inspection of the Gertosa, which is open from 8 to 5.30 in
summer and from 9 to 4 in winter (on Sun. & holidays 10-2), takes
11/2-2 hrs. (adm. 1 fr., Sun. free; guide imperative, gratuities for-
hidden).

Beyond the Vssnnunn (ticket—ofﬁce), with sadly-damaged fres-
coes by Bern. Luini (SS. Sebastian and Christopher) and others,
we enter the Prazzams, or fore-court, surrounded by the former
Iv‘armacia or laboratory (now a liqueur—distillery), the Fonsicria, or
pilgrims’ lodging-house, and the Palazzo Ducale (now a Museum,
p. 145), built about 1625 by Bicchini for distinguished visitors to
the monastery. 0n the E. side of the oourt rises the celebrated
facade of the church.

The ”Facams, unquestionably the ﬁnest example of early-
Renaissance decorative work in N. ltaly, is perhaps the most masterly
creation of its kind of the 15th century. Its design, independent
of the antique orders of architecture, is in the Lombard-Romanesque
style of graduated church-fronts, with projecting pillars and trans-
verse arcades, while within these well-deiined structural features
it embraces a wonderful and judiciously distributed wealth of
ornament. — The plinth is adorned with medallions of Roman
emperors, above which are reliefs representing Biblical history and
scenes from the life of Gian Galeazzo (including the transference
of the bones of the founder to the Certosa in 1474). Below the
four magniﬁcent windows is a row of angels’ heads, and above them
are niches with numerous statues. A relief by the main portal
represents the dedication of the church in 1497.

The beautiful and spacious *IN'rnmon has a purely Gothic nave,
supported by eight handsome pillars, with aisles and 14 chapels;
while Renaissance forms begin to appear in the transepts and choir
(each with a triple absidal ending) and in the dome above the
crossing. The originally handsome decorations designed by Bor-
gognone and the ﬁne stained-glass windows of the 15th cent. haw
nearly all disappeared. Most of the altar-pieces and the presen
ﬂorid eurichments of the chapels date from the 17th century. Th!
beautiful choir-screen of iron and bronze was executed about 166l
by Fr. Villa and P. P. Ripa. The mosaic pavement, originally Jail
down by Rinaldo dc Staun’s (1450), was restored in 1850.

We begin in the LEFT AISLB. 2nd Chapel. Altar-piece by Perum'no, c
which only the central part, above, representing 'God the Father. 1
original, the other parts being now in the Na'ional Gallery in London
Adjacent are the four greatChur-ch Fathers, by Borgoanom. In them-h Chapel
Borgoguone, St. Ambrose with {our other saints (M90). LEFT TXANBEPT
°Figures of Ludovico Moro and his wife Beatrice d‘Este (d. 1497), from ill
demolished monument of the latter, one of the chief works of Orin. Solar

brought in 1584 from Santa Maria delle Grazle in Milan (p. 135) and restore
in 1891. In front of the altar is a handsome bronze candelabrum by AMI

