272 Route 42. . VENICE. a. San Marco

style on the model of the old church of the Apostles at Constan-
tinople. and decorated with that lavish and almost Oriental magniﬁ-
cence that commands our admiration to-day. The fanciful effect of
the facade was enhanced by the Gothic additions it received in the
15th century. The ediﬁce (250 it. long, 168 ft. wide) is in the form
of a Greek cross (with equal arms), covered with Byzantine domes
in the centre and at the end of each arm. The foremost arm is
completely surrounded by a vestibule covered with a series of
smaller domes. 0n the S. side this contains the baptistery and the
Cappella Zeno; and on the W. side it forms the facade. Above it a
gallery runs round the upper part of the church. Externally and
internally the church is adorned with ﬁve hundred marble columns
(mostly Oriental), with capitals in an exuberant variety of styles.
The mosaics cover an area of 45,790 sq. ft., and the interior is
profusely decorated with gilding, bronze, and Oriental marble. The
mosaics, some of them said to date from the 10th cent.. belong
chieﬂy to the period between the 12th and 16th cent, and afford
interesting evidence of the early aptitude of the Venetians for plt'r
torial composition. — Since 1807 St. Mark’s has been the cathedral
Er Vegice, a dignity which once belonged to San Pietro di Castello
p. 3 7).

Ir. Ruskin, in the ‘Btones of Venice‘, lays great stress upon the colour
ing of St. Mark‘s, reminding the reader ‘that the school of incrusted archi-
tecture is the only one in which perfect and permanent chromatic decoration
is possible‘. And again: —— ‘the effects of St. Hark’s depend not only upon
the most delicate sculpture in every part , but, as we have just stated.
eminently on its colour also, and that the most subtle, variable, inexpreasible
colour in the world, - the colour of glass, of transparent alabaster, of
polished marble, and lustrous gold’.

Over the principal portal are ‘Foun Houses in gilded bronze 5 n. in
height, which are among the ﬁnest of ancient bronles, and the so 9 exist
ing specimen of an ancient quadriga. They probably once adorned the
triumphs! arch of Nero, and afterwards that of Trajan. Constantine sent
them to Constantinople, whence the Dogs Dandolo brought them to Venice
in 120s. In 1797 they were carried by Napoleon to Paris, where they
afterwards graced the triumphal arch in the Place du Carrousel, and il
1815 they were restored to their former position by Emp. Francis.

Facade. °liosucs2 below, over the rineipal entrance, the Last Judg-
ment, executed in 1836; on the right Em arkation of the body of St. Hark
at Alexandria, and its Arrival at Venice, both of moo, on the left, the
Veneration of the saint, of 1728, and Deposition of therelica of the saint
in the Church of St. Mark, of the 13th century. - Above, on the left and
right, are four mosaics of the 17th cent., Descent from the Cross, Christ in
Hades, Resurrection, Ascension. — The quaint Scunnuns, especially at
the main entrance (allegorical representation of the months, etc), and the
Byzantine reliefs in the walls deserve notice. Above are statues of the
Evangelists under canopies; at the end, the Annunciation; above the
large central arch, a statue of Christ.

Veaﬁhule (Alﬁe). The Mosaics in the vaulting, of which the older
are in the Byzantine style of the 13th cent., represent Old Testament
subjects, beginning on the right: 1st Dome, Creation of the World, and Fall
of Man; in the followin arch, the Deluge; 2nd Dome, over the principal
entrance to the church, t. Hark, executed in 16th by the brothers We.
- The three red slab: in the pavement commemorate the reconciliation
between Em . Fred. Barbarussa and Pope Alexander III. (p. 2% eifeeted
here on 28 July, 1177, through the mediation of the Dogs Se . Zinni.

