504 Route 58. FLORENCE. f. Santa Maria Novella.

above, the joy of the blessed and admission to heaven- at the top Christ
in glory surrounded by angels. — On the W. side (1.), Triumph of ’l‘homns
Aquinas, surrounded by angels, prophets, and saints, in his hand anopen
book; at his feet the discomlited heretics Arlus, Sabellius, Ind Averrhois.
Below, 28 ﬁgures representing arts and sciences approved by the church.
0n the wall of the door, Histories of St. Dominic and st. Peter Martyr.
Mr. Ruskin devotes Nos. IV and V of the ‘Hornings in Florence‘ to
the frescoes in this chapel. — The Gun! CLoisnas, the largest at Flor-
ence, with frescoes by Cigalt', A}. Allon‘, San“ di Tito, Poccettt’, and others.
are adjacent to the above. — The three smaller courts date from diﬁ'erent
parts of the 15th century. — Opposite the above-mentioned Sepolcreto.
adjoining the tomb of the Marchesa Ridolfo, are two small frescoes by
Giotto, representing the Meeting of SB. Joachim and Anne at the Golden
Gate and the Birth of the Virgin (see No. II of the ‘Mornings in Florence).

The Farmacia di Santa Maria Novella (Pl. D, 3), or laboratory
of the monastery (entrance by the large door in the Via della Seals,
No. 12; attendant 50 0.), contains in a former chapel frescoes
(retouched) of the 14th cent. (the Passion), by Spindle Aretha.
The Spezeria is celebrated for the perfumes and liqueurs prepared
in it, especially ‘Alkermes’, a specialty of Florence, ﬂavoured with
cinnamon and cloves.

Farther on in the Via della Scale (No. 89) is the Palasso Ridolﬁ
(formerly Pal. Stiozzi; Pl. 0, 2). The adjoining garden, the Orti
Oricellari, was the seat of the Platonic Academy (p. 443) from 1498
to 1522, and afterwards belonged toBianca Cappello, wife ofGrsnd-
Duke Francis 1. (p. 608). It contains a colossal ﬁgure of Poly-
phemus by Novelli, and other sculptures.

In the Via di Palazzuolo is the church of SAN chssoo
Dn’ Vancrm'roxr (P1. D, 3), with two beautiful busts of children,
by Ant. Rossellino and Desiderio da Settignano. Key at the neigh-
bouring shop, No. 13 (fee 30 c.).

g. From the Piazza Vittorio Emanuele to the Piazza. Santa
Trinita and the Lnngarno Amerigo Vespuoci.

The new PIAZZA Vr'r'roaro EMANUELE (Pl. E, 4, 5) new forms
the focus of the Centre (p. 445) and is especially animated in the
evening. It occupies part of the site of the Roman Forum, which
afterwards became the market-place. In the middle, facing the Via
degli Speziali (p. 450), rises a bronze equestrian Statue of Victor
Emanuel 11., by Emilio Zocchi (1890). — 0n the W. side of the
piazza is a portico with an imposing arch forming the entrance to
the VIA DRGLI S'raozzr (Pl. E, 4).

To the left, in the narrow Piazza Strozzi, rises the handsome -—

"Palauo Strozzi (Pl. D, E, 4), begun in 1489, perhaps by Ben:-
detto da Mujano (d. 1497), for Filippo Strozzi, the celebrated ad-
versary of the Medici (comp. p. 428), continued by Cronaca (d. 1508),
but not reaching its present state of completion till 1533. It pre—
sents an example of the Florentine palatial style in its most perfect
development. It possesses three imposing facades, constructed of
regular courses of heavy rustica-work, with narrow intervening

 

