278 Route 42. VENICE. a. Piano. of St. Mark:

ities of the Republic held their meetings, and which retain much
of their ancient splendour. We ﬁrst enter a small anteroom, the —

I. Arno Qusnmro, with ceiling-paintings by Tinlorctto, Doge
Priuli receiving the sword of justice. 0n the walls, portraits of pro-
curators (p. 271), also by Tintoretto. — To the right is the ~—

11. Sam DBLLn Quar'rno Pours, restored in 1869; architectonic
decorations by Palladio, 1575. Entrance-wall, in the centre: ‘Dogs
Ant. Grimani kneeling before Religion, by Titian (a late work; ca.
1555); the ﬁgures at the sides are by Marco Vecelli. The side
pictures are by Titian’s pupils: left, Verona conquered by the
Venetians in 1459, by Giov. Contan'm'. Over the windows in the
E. wall: Neptune strewing the treasures of the deep at the feet of
Venezia, by Tiepolo. Exit-wall: Arrival of Henry III. 0! France at
Venice in 1574, by Andrea Vicentino; Doge Marine Grimani receiv-
ing the Persian ambassadors in 1603, by Gabriele Caliari, son of
P. Veronese. Magniﬁcent ceiling: stucco-work by Samovino, paint-
ing by Jae. Tintoretto. — Next we enter the —

IIL Ax'rrcomoro, opposite the Atrio Quadrato. Architectonic
decoration and line chimney-piece designed by Scamoasi. Opposite
the windows, Jacob’s return to Canaan, by Banana,- ‘Rape of
Europa, by P. Veroncse. Also, four paintings by Tintoretto : Forge
of Vulcan, Mercury with the Graces, Minerva driving back Mars.
and Ariadne and Bacchus.

1V. SALA DBL Console. 0n the left, chimney-piece with sta-
tues of Hercules and Mercury, by Campagna. Over the door and
on the exit-wall: Doge Andrea Gritti praying to the Virgin, Nop-
tials of St. Catharine (with a portrait of Doge Franc. Donate), Virgin
in glory (with Doge Niccolo da Ponte), Adoration of the Saviour
(with Doge Alvise Mocenigo), all by Jac. Tintorctto. Over the
throne, a memorial picture of the Battle of Lepanto (1571), ‘Chriat
in glory (below, Doge Venier, Venetia, Religion, St. Mark, etc).
by P. Veroncse. Ceiling—paintings (considered the ﬁnest in the
palace), Neptune and Mars, Faith, ‘Venetia on the globe with
Justice and Peace, all by P. Veronese.

‘The roof is entirely by Paul Veronese, and the traveller who really
loves painting ought to get leave to come to this room whenever he choose:
and should pass the sunny summer mornings there again and again . . . .
He will no otherwise enter so deeply into the heart of Venice‘. — Bath's.

V. SALA DBL Serum. Over the throne, Descent from the
Cross by Joe. Tintoretto, with portraits of the Doges Pietro Lando
and Marc Antonio Trevisano; on the wall, to the left, Doge Seh.
Venier before Venetia, Doge Pasquale Oicogna in presence of the
Saviour, Venetia with the Lion against Europa on the Bull (an
allusion to the League of Cambrai, see p. 266), all by Palma
Giooam; Doge Pietro Loredan imploring the aid of the Virgin, by
Jae. Tintorctto. Above the exit, Christ in glory, with Doges
Lorenzo and Girolamo Priuli, by Palma Giooane. Central ceiling-
painting: Venice, Queen of the Sea, by Dom. Tintoreuo.

