"V
416 Beaten. LUCOA. nom Pisa

Restaurants. 'Rsbscchino, Piazza Napoleone; Rail. Restaurant, clean. —
Cafd Dinucct, Piazza Napoleone, at the corner of the Via Nazionale (also
restaurant).

Post Ofﬁce in the Palazzo Provinciale (Pl. C. 3).

Cabs. Per drive 1 fr., per hr. 2 fr., each addit. hr. 11/: fr.; from the
station to the town, with luggage, 1 fr. Bargain advisable for drives out-
side the town.

Principal Attractions (1 day): Cathedral; San liehele; San Frediann;
Picture Gallery in the Palazzo Provinciale; in the afternoon, Galleril
Mansi; Walk or drive on the ramparts.

Lucca (62 ft), formerly the capital of the duchy of that name
and now of a province, and also the see of an archbishop, with
73,465 inhab., is an antiquated place situated in a fertile plain be-
tween the Monti Pisani and the Alpl Apuane, with well—preserved
fortiﬁcations of 1561-1660 and many interesting churches. ‘Lucca
l’indust'riosa‘ is noted for its silk-factories, a branch of industry in-
troduced from Sicily in the 14th cent., and also for its woollen goods
and oil. An aqueduct, built in 1823-32 by Lor. Nottolini and re-
calling with its 459 arches the aqueducts of the Roman Campagm,
supplies the city with good drinking-water from the Pisan mountains.

Lucca (Roman bum) was founded at a very remote period. 1!
(irst belonged to Etrurie, afterwards to Liguria, and after its capture by
the Romans in 177 B. 0., it was garrisoned by a Roman colony and was
included in the province of Gallia Cisalpina. In B. C. 56 Julius Caesar.
who was then governor of Gaul, held a conference here with Pompey
and Crassus, with whom he had been associated since B. C. 60, in orderh
discuss a plan for the administration of the Roman em ire for the email!
five years. The splendour of Lucca at that period is still indicated by the
remains of a Roman Amphitheatre. After the fall of the Roman Empire,
Lucca belonged successively to the Goths. Lombards, and Franks, then
became a duchy, and in 1115, after the death of the Countess latilda (pm,

a republic. The feuds of the Guslphs and Ghibellines impaired the strength I

of the place so seriously that in 1314 it was compelled to succumb to
Uquccione delta Faggiuota of Arezzo, the warlike governor of Pisa. Dante
resided with his friend Ugnccione at Lucas. in 1314, and there became
enamonred of the youthful Gmtucea (Purgatorio, xxiv. 43), but he does not
describe the inhabitants in very ﬂattering terms (Inferno, xxi. L1). After
the expulsion of Uguccione, Luccn. fell in 1322 into the hands of the
powerful Castruccio Oastracam' dealt Antelmmelll of anca, who was also
master of Pisa and Pistoja. On 23rd Sept, 13%, he defeated the Florenﬁnes
at Altopascio, and in 1327 was nominated imperial governor in Pisa, with
the title of duke, by Emp. Lewis the Bavarian. On his death in 13%
the power of Lucca declined; its next master was Alanine delta Scale; it
subsequently came into the possession of Florence and then (in 1343) of
Pisa, but in 1369 it purchased its freedom from Charles IV. for 311M110 ﬂorins,
and with the exception of the rule of the native famil of the Gui-I‘m
(1395-1430), it remained independent till the invasion 0 the French in
1799. In 1805 Napoleon gave anca as a principality to his sister Elise
Bacioccht‘; in 1814 it came into the possession of the dukes of Penna ot
the house of Bourbon, who, on succeeding to the throne of Parma alter
the death of Marie Louise, ceded it to Tuscany in 1847. .

In the Hrsronr or Mannxvar. Argonne-run: Lucca occupied an im-
portant position from the period of the Lombards onward. The oldest
churches have unfortunately preserved their early-medieval character very
' imperfectly, but their columns, like those of the early-Christian basilica
of Rome, .are antique. The taste for buildin , probably stimulated by
rivalry wrth Pisa, was again revived in the th cent, when the older
churches were altered and restored, doubtless in accordance with
models. —- Towards the end of the 15th cent. Xalm Otvitall' “Mb

