228 Route 37. venous. a. Right am

To the S.W. of the Arena stands the Municipio (Pl. D, 4; formerly
a guard-house), begun in 1836, which bears several memorial tablets
relating to political events and to the inundation of 1882.

The wide VIA PALLONE, beginning behind the Municipio, leads to the
S.E., skirting the Hediaeoal City Wall of the Visconti period (now used
as barracks), to the iron Pants Aleardi (Pl. E, 8) and the Olmdtao (p. 232).

Near the Via Pallone, within a garden (visitors rin at the red
door in front, adm. 50c.) in the Vicolo San Francesco a1 rso, a side
street of the Via Cappuccini, is a suppressed Franciscan Monastery, where a
chapel contains a medieval sarcophagus called the Tom dt Giulieua, or
‘Ibmb of Juliet” (Pl. D, 6). The whole scene is prosaic and unattractive.
Shakespeare‘s play of ‘Bomeo and Juliet‘ is founded on events which actu-
ally occurred at Verona. ‘Escalus, Prince of Verona‘ was Bartolomeo della
Scale (d. 1303). The house of Juliet‘s parents, see p. 230.

The W. side of the Piazza Vitt. Emanuele is occupied by the
Gran Guardta Vccchia (Pl. D, 4; now the com-market; upper ﬂoor
used for concerts and exhibitions), or old guard-house, begun in
1609 by Dom. Ourtoni. Adjacent are the Portont, an old gateway
with a tower, probably another fragment of the city-wall of Giov.
Galeazzo Visconti. — On the N. side of the piazza is the spacious
Pal. Malfatti, formerly Guaataversa (by Sanmioheli), with the Cafe
Vittorio Emanuele, mentioned at p. 222.

In the street to the right of the gateway is the Tcatro Filarmonico
(Pl. 0, 4), built by Franc. Galli da Bibbiena (d. 1739). In the
arcades erected in 1745 is the valuable Museo Lapidario, or Museo
Maffeiano, formed by Scipione Maﬁei (p. 224), containing Roman,
Greek, and Oriental inscriptions, and ancient sculptures. Two of
the best‘ reliefs are built into the back—walls of the small houses
adjoining the entrance (on the left, IEsculapius and Hygieia, an
Attic votive relief, 4th cent. 8.0.). Visitors ring at the iron gate
opposite the Gran Guardia (adm. 50 c.).

Passing through the gateway, we reach the Conso Vin. Ein-
NUBLB (Pl. 0, B, 4, 5), in which, at the corner of the Via Sant’
Antonio, is a Statue of Michele Sanmichdi, ‘grandc nella architet-
tura civile e religiosa, massimo nella militare’, by Trojani. At the
end of the Corso rises the handsome Porta Nuova (Pl. B, 6), by
Sanmicheli. Outside this gate are the Station: Porta Nuova (p. 221),
the Canals Industriale, or Adige Canal, completed in 1888, and
several factories.

From the Porta Nuova an avenue leads to the N.W. to the
'Porta del Palio (formerly Poria Stuppa; Pl. A, 4), by Samnicheli,
once admired by Goethe. Outside the gate is the moat of the fortress,
the bridge over which aﬂords a ﬁne view. — We now follow the
Stradone (ii Porta Palio and the second cross-street on the left to --

San Bernardino (Pl. A, 3), of the 15th cent., formerly a mon-
estery-churcb. We enter from the E. angle, through the pretty
cloisters. Above the door to the left of the church is a fresco,
*St. Bernardinus, by Caoanola (if the church-door be closed, ring
in the corner to the left).

