280 ‘Routc l2. VENICE. a. Piazza of St. Marla:

federation (p. 220). — On the E. wall, sb0ve Guariento’s frescoes
(p. 268), Jae. Tintoretto’s Paradise, the largest oil-painting in
the world (72 ft. by 23 ft.), with a bewildering multitude of ﬁgures,
many of the heads of which are admirable. — On the walls are
21 large scenes from the history of the Republic by Leandra and
Francesco Bassano, Paolo Veromsc, Jacopo and Domenico Tin-
toretto, etc. These pictures consist of two series. The ﬁrst illu-
strates in somewhat boastful fashion the life of Doge Sebastiano
Ziam‘ (1173-79), who accorded an asylum to Pope Alexander lIl.
(comp. p. 272) and (in league with the towns of Lombardy) resisted
the imperial demands; the second depicts the exploits of Dog:
Enrico Dandolo (p. 266).

The ﬁrst series begins on the upper part of the wall to the right at
the entrance, and runs to the left towards the opposite end: 1. Meeting
of Pope Alexander 111. and Dogs ziani at the Monastery della Garit‘a;
2. Parting audience of the Ambassadors of the Pope and the Doge on their
departure for Pavia, both by Pupils of Paolo Verona“: 8. (above the
window) Presentation of the consecrated candle, by Leandra Banana; 4.
Ambassadors of the Pope and the Doge at Pavia presenting to Emp. Fred.

. Barbarossa a petition for cessation of hostilities, by Jae. Tintorsno; 5.
The Pope presenting a sword to the Doge, by Franc. Banana,- 6. (above
the window) Departure of the Doge with the papal benediction, by Paolo
Fiammingo; 7. Battle of Salvore (Pirano), defeat of the Imperial ﬂeet. and
capture of 0tho, the Emperor‘s son, 1177, by Dom. Mtorsuo; 8. (above
the door) The Doge presenting the captive Otho to the Pope by Andrea
Vicentino; 9. Pope Alexander permits Otho to rtipair to his father in order
to negotiate a peace, by Palm Giooam; 10. red. Barbarossa kneelinz
before the Pops (p. 272), by Federigo Zuecaro; 11. (above the door) Renewed
meeting between the Pope, Doge and Emperor at Ancona, by Girolanw
Gambaralo. — 0n the end-wall, 2. The Pope presents gifts to the Dogs,
including the ring, the symbol of supremacy with which the Doge annually
‘wedded the Adriatic‘, 1177, by Giulia dal Moro.

The series of pictures in honour of Doge Dandolo also begins on the
entrance-wall, to which we return after seeing the ﬁrst series. They run
from left to right: 1. The Dogs and French Crusaders swear alliance at
St. Hark‘s in 1201 fer the liberation of the Ho? Land, by Gino. Le Gert:
2. Storming of Zara in 1202 by Andrea Ween ino; 3. Surrender of Zara
in 1202, by Dom. Tintoretta over the door to the balcony); L. Alexius,
son of the dethroned Greek E2163) .Isaac Angelus, invoking the aid of the
Venetians for his father in 1 , by Andrea Wmtino; 5. Taking of Con-
stantinople by the Venetians and French, 1203, by Palma Giovane; 6.
Second capture of Constantinogle, in 1204, by Dom. Tintoreuo; 7. Count
Baldwin of Flanders elected reek Emperor, 1204 by Andr. Vicsnh'no;
S. Coronation of Baldwin by Doge Enrico Dandolo, 1 , by Alums. (Above

. this a black tablet on the frieze among the portraits of the Doses been
the inscription: Hie est locus Marini Famri decapilau pro ers‘minibus; comp.
p. 266.) — Lastly: 9. Return of the Doge Andrea Contarini from his victory
over the Genoese ﬂeet near Chioggia, 1380, by Paolo Vermess.

The Connmon contains a bust of the Emp. Francis 1. and per.
traits of several senators—The SALA DELLO Scnu-rmro, or Voting
Hall, used at the election of the doges and other ofﬁcials, is dec-
orated similarly to the preceding room. The balcony affords a. good
View of Sansovino’s Library.

On the frieze are portraits of the last 39 doges, from Pietro Loredan

(1587-70) down to Led. Manin (1797). Entrance-wall: Last Judgment, b."
I'alma Giovanc; above, Prophets, by A. Wantino. Left wall, towards the

