Art Histcry. MILAN. 19. Route. 117

Eustorgio) succeeded in introducing the Tuscsn eeriy- Renaissance style,
and this only after protracted struggles with the Lombard masters, who
clung obstinately to the pointed arch. Their inﬂuence, along with traces
of that of N. nrt. is mirrored in the Lombardic school of sculpture, which
grew up ebout 1460 and gradually extended its activity to Venice, Genoa,
and even 5. Italy. Its principal masters the brothers Antonio and Cristoforo
Name and, Gian. Ant. Amadeo (“47-15% , Crista/ore Solart (d. at'ter1525),
and am. Radar-1’, may best be studied in the Carton in anis, the Cappelln
Colleoni in Bergmo, and the Cathedral of Como. The decline of the style
is shown in the late works of Agom‘no Bruit, surnamed Bambaja (ca. 1380-
i A more serious and realistic conception is revealed by the versatile
Crista/ore Foppa, snruamed Caradouo (ca. 1445—1527), who is also famous
as n medal-engraver and oldsmith. — The e'arlicr painters of this eriod,
such as Vincsnzo Fma (d. 492), who seems to have been trained in adua,
and his pupil Ambrops‘a Borgognons (d. 1523), remained faithful to the local
tradition.

Milanese art reached the zenith of its reputation as the residence of
Bramimu (um-1500), to whom are due the choir and dnme of Santa Maria
delle. Grnzie and the beptistery of San Satire. and of Leonardo da Vinci
(1185-150) and 1508-16). The latter here executed his masterpieces: the
Lest Supper and the clay model of the equestrian monument of Francesco
St‘orza, destroyed by the French in 1499. Among the pupils of Leonardo
were the painters Giovanni Antonio Boltmfﬁo, Marco d‘OWiono, Andrea
Salas'no, Cesare do Beck), and Gtanptetrino: and his influence is also mant-
fest. in the works of Bernardino buim‘, Andrea Solar“), Guudenzt‘o Ferrari,
and Giant. Ant. Bani (it deoma).

We recognize Brsmantc‘s style in many buildings of Lombardy, such
u Santa Maria in Busto Arsizio, the church of Abbiategruso, Santa Maria
delle Croce st Creme, the Cathedral and Santa Maria de Canepanovs at
Pavia, the Incoronata st Lodl. Milan itself owes its resent architectural
physiognomy rather to the masters of the late-Rena ssnnce: —— Galeazza
Aluu‘ (p. 71; P81. Merino), Vine. Scream (1509-94; Ps1. del Gtureconsulti,
Pal. di Giustizia), and Psilsarino Tibalds’ of Bologna (1532-96; court of the
Archiepiscopal Palace). The churches by these architects (San Paulo, Sun
Vittore, San Fedelo, lower part of the cathedral facade) show the tran-
sition to the baroque style. The most important architect of the 17th cent.
was Rice-Mai (Bros-n, parts of the Ospedale Msggiore).

The three earlier Pracaccs'm', the chief painters after 1550. bctra the
mannerism of the Carracei, while Ere-ole I’racaccini the Younger (1596- 676),
GM. Ball. Grapi, surnamed II Guano (1557-1833), Daniele Crespi (15901630),
and Carla Franc. It'woiani (1608-61) are vigorous disciples of the same
eclectic masters (p. 365). ~— The soul ture of this period is insigniﬁcant.

In recent times Milan has raised itself to the highest artistic rank in
the kingdom. Sculpture is here carried on to such an extent us to have
become almost a special industry. The Milanese Scunr’rons take great
pride in their technical skill, and in etl‘ective imitations of nature.

a. From the Piazza. del Duomo to the Central Station. Northern
Quarters oi the City. The Brera.

The focus of the commercial and public life of Milan is the
‘Piazza del Duomo (Pl. E, 5), which has been much extended
since 1876, and is now enclosed on the N. and S. by imposing cdi-
ﬂees designed by Mengoni (p. 120). It is a centre for electric
tramways.

The celebrated “Cathedral (Pl. E, F, 5), dedicated ‘Mariae
Nascenti’, as the inscription on the facade announces, and as the
gilded statue on the tower over the dome also indicates, is built on
the site of the smaller early-Christian basilica of Santa. Maria

