ITALIAN ART. li

Alanna (creator of the Cappella Golleoni at Bergamo), and, at a
later period, Gmsrorono Sonam, sumamed II. Gonno; Venice
abounds in works by the LOMBABDI, including Amsssammo Lao-
raanr (d. 1522), the most famous sculptor of his period; Riccro or
Buosoo (p. xlvii) wrought at Padua; Aoos'rmo Been, In Barman
(ca. 1480-1648), and the above-mentioned Cms'rorono Sonam, were
actively engaged at Milan; and Modcna aﬂ‘orded employment to
Mason and 330mm! (p. 348), artists in terracotta.

Among the various works executedby these masters, Monumental
Tombs largely predominate. While these monuments are often of
a somewhat bombastic character, they aﬁ'ord an excellent illus-
tration of the high value attached to individuality and personal
culture during the Renaissance period. We may perhaps also fre-
quently take exception to the monotony of their style , which
remained almost unaltered for a whole century, but we cannot fail
to derive genuine pleasure from the inexhaustible freshness of
imagination and richness of detail displayed within so narrow limits.

As museums cannot convey an adequate idea of the sculpture
of the 15th century, so the picture galleries will not aﬂord an
accurate insight into the painting of that period. Sculp- Pun,“
tures are frequently removed from their original position, or run Cm.
many of those belonging to the Florentine churches, for ““3““-
example , having been of late transferred to museums; but mural
paintings are of course generally inseparable from the walls which
they adorn. 0f the frescoes of the 15th century of which a record has
been preserved, perhaps one-half have been destroyed or obliterated,
but those still extant are the most instructive and attractive ex-
amples of the art of this period. The mural paintings in the church
of Santa Maria dcl Carmine (Cappella Brancacci) at Florence (p. 509)
are usually spoken of as the earliest specimens of the painting of
the Renaissance. 0n material grounds the classiﬁcation is justifiable,
as this cycle of pictures may be regarded as a programme of the
earlier art of the Renaissance, the importance of which it served to
maintain, even during the age of Raphael. Here the beauty of the
nude was ﬁrst revealed, and here a calm dignity was for the ﬁrst
time imparted to the individual ﬁgures, as well as to the general
arrangement; and the transformation of a group of indiﬂ’erent specta-
tors in the composition into a sympathising choir, forming as it were
a frame to the principal actors in the scene, was first successfully
eﬂectsd. It is, therefore, natural that these frescoes should still be
regarded as models for imitation, and that, when the attention of
connoisseurs was again directed during the 18th century to the
beauties of the pre-Raphaelite period, the works of Masomxoﬁ)
and Macao (1401-28) should have been eagerly rescued from
oblivion.

A visit to the churches and convents of Florence is well calculated
to convey an idea of the subsequent rapid development of the art of

d i

