arm Adtge. venom. 37. Route. 233

view-terrace (ascent through the turret at the back of the garden)
commands a beautiful view of Verona, the distant Apennines,
Monte Pizzocolo, and the Brescian Alps (evening-light favourable).

A little to the N.E., in the wide Interrato dell‘ Acqua Morta, the
ﬁlled—in canal that till 1895 separated the island of the Adige from
Vsronetta, lies ‘Snnta. Karin in Orgino (Pl. G, 3), a very ancient
church, rebuilt by Sanmicheli in 1481, with unﬂnishedfacade of 1592.

111153103 (if main portal is closed, try side~door in the Via. S. Maria
in Organo). In the nave are 'Frescoea by Franc. Morons, representing
(right) Adam and Eve, the Flood, Abraham‘s Sacriﬁce, Joseph sold by his
Brelhren, (left) Passage of the Red Sea. Moses receiving the Tables of the
Law, David and Goliath, Elijah in the Fiery Chariot. Third altar on
the left, Madonna and Child, with 88. Martin, Augustine, and two angels,
by Morons (15m); dth sitar on the left. Madonna with saints. by Banoldo
(1533). Chapel to the left of the choir, fresco of the Resurrection by Dom.
Emma-6. The seats in front of the high-altar are embellished with
lmdscapes by Caourola and Brurasorcl'. Behind it is a carved ebony and
walnut Candelabmm by FM Giovanni da Verona, who belonged to the men-
astery of this church. 'Cnorn Brute with intarsis (views of the town above,
ornamentation at the sides and below), of “99, by the same master. Chapel

. on the right of the choir: Ascension, Shower of manna, Passover, frescoes
by Biol/Ina. In the right transept are an IltariPlece, St. Francesca Romans,
bay Gun-cine 1039), and, on the wall in. ront, frescoes by Caourola
( t. lichasl, t. Raphael with Tobias). — The Sacnrur contains, on the
right, intarlias by ha Giovanni, injured by water (now being restored);
the ceiling and (ﬁerce, with half-length ‘Portraits of monks and saints,
are by Francesco Morena; ‘lladonna del Limone, by Git-oi. das' Libs-i.

From the end of the Via Santa Maria in Organo the Via San
Giovanni in Valle ascends to the right to the ancient little church
of SAN Grovamu mVaLLn (P1. G, H, 2), a ﬂat-roofed basilica, home
by columns with very early capitals. Over the entrance is a fresco
by Stefano da chi0, and in the crypt are two early-Christian
urcophagi. —- The Vicolo Borgo Tascherio leads hence to the Via
Redentore, beyond which to the right, on a rising ground, is the
little church of Sam! Siro c Libero (Pl. G, 2), dating from the time
of Berengarius I. — In the vicinity are remains of an antique Theatre,
excavated in the midst of private houses (boy will fetch custodian).

Opposite the Pants delta Pietra, built by Fra Stefano, of which
the two arches next the left bank are Roman, begins the ascent to
the Costello San Pietro (Pl. G, ‘2; permission at No. 57, Corso Vitt.
Emanuele), a modern barrack on the site of the castle of Theodoric
the Great (p. 2‘22) and the Visconti, ruins of which are still trace-
able. Splendid view, which, however, is almost equally good from
llittle before the entrance.

A few paces to the N. of the bridge is the venerable church of
lento Iteﬁno (Pl. G, i), destroyed by Theodoric. Facade probably
Ethe 11th century. The interior has a ﬂat roof and a raised choir;

the crypt, on the right, is a statue of St. Peter (.i4tb cent).
Pictures by Caroto and D. Brusasorci. —- From this point the Via
Messio leads to the W. to the church of —

r San Giorgio in Braids (Pl. F, 1; entrance usually by a side-
isor on the N.), reconstructed in the 16th cent. with the aid of

