y. From St. Mark to the Academy. VENICE. 42. Route. 315

ouster the Piazzetta and one for the Giudecca (see p. 261). The
street to the right of the church leads to (3 min.) the Academy
(p. 283).

g. From the Piazza of St. Mark on foot to the Academy and
Santa Maria della Salute. San Giorgio Maggiore. Giudecca.

The passage in the S.W. corner of the Piazza of St. Mark leads
to the SAuzzam SAN Morse, with its numerous shops. To the
right is the Frczxeria (p. 5263), another busy street. To the left is
the church of Ban Moi-b (Pl. G, 6), with an over-decorated facade
by Al. Trerm'gnan (i 668), ‘notable’, says Mr. Ruskin, ‘as one of the
basest examples of the basest school of the Renaissance'. John
Law (1671-1729), originator of the ‘Mississippi Scheme’, is buried
in this church. Beyond it we cross the bridge and proceed straight
on along the Via Vern-mun Manzo.

The second aide-street to the right, the Calle delle Vests leads to the
Gampo San Fantino, in which are situated the Teatra Ferries 1. F. 6); the
Atmo Vanda (see p. 263), aRenaissance building by A]. Vittoria, formerly
the Bruola di San Girolamo; and the church of 81m FAN'HNO, built in the
early-Renaissance style after 1500, with a line choir by Joe. Samovtno (1533).

The Via Ventidue Marzo crosses a second bridge and leads to
the church of Santa. Maria Zobenigo (Pl. F, 6), erected in 1680—83
by Gina. Sardi for the Barbaro family (‘berbaro monumento del
decadimento dell‘ arts”, as it has been called). The niches of the
baroque facade contain statues of members of the family. At the
base of the lower row of columns are plans of Zara, Candia, Padua,
Rome, Corfu, and Spalato, hewn in the stone; above are representa-
tions of naval battles.

Leaving this church, we cross the Campo San Maurizio, where
the small church of that name is situated, to the larger CAMPO
Funcnsco Monosrm (Pl. E, F, 6), which has been embellished
since 1882 with a marble statue of Niccolo Tommaseo, philosopher
and teacher (d. 1874), by Franc. Barzaghi, of Milan. To the left
is the Pal. Morosim' and to the right is —

‘Snnto Stefﬁno Pl. F, 5, 6), a Gothic church of the 14th cent.,
with an elegant facade in brick and good window-mouldings in terra—
cotta. The interior has a peculiarly constructed vaulting of wood,
which, along with the wide intervals of the slender columns, im-
parts a very pleasing appearance to the interior and recalls San
Fermo at Verona (p. 230). On the walls are ancient frescoes, re-
cently discovered and found to be in good condition.

Err-runes: WALL, above the principal door, equestrian statue of Dom.
Contarini, middle of 17th cent.; adjacent, (1.) the line tomb of the physician
Jacopo Suriano (d. 1511). On the PAVEMENT of the nave is the large tomb-
stone of the Doge Francesco Morosini (d. 1694; p. 267), with the cap and
baton of ofﬁce in bronze. — Sscms'rr (to the right): beside the altar, two
saints on a gilded background by Bart. Vivarim‘ and small marble statues
of St. Anthony and a bishop by Pietro Lombardy (7).—- Chem. 0n the marble
screens, statues of the twelve Apostles and four saints, from the studio
of Pietro Lombardo (M76). Renaissance stalls by Marco da Vicenm

