450 Route 58. FLORENCE. :1. Hana-

Opposite Or San Michele, in the Via de’ Calzajoli, is the Oratorio
of San Carla Borromeo (Pl. E, 5), of the 14th cent., originally
dedicated to the archangel Michael.

By this church diverges the Via Tavolini, continued by the Via Dante,
containing the house (No. 2, left side) in which Dance is said to have
been born (Pl. F, b). It is marked with a memorial tablet bearing the
inscription ‘in quests case degli Alighierl nacque i1 divluo poem”; the
library with a few memorials is open on Mon., Wed., and Frid., 11-3.
The house was rebuilt in 1875.

The short Via degli Speziali, diverging to the left beyond 0r
San Michele, leads to the busy Piazza Vittorio Emanuele (p. 504).

The Via’ de Calzajoli ends at the Piazza DBL Duomo (Pl. F, 4),
in which, immediately to the right, stands the Oratory of the
Misericordia (Pl. F, 4), belonging to the order of brothers of char-
ity founded in 1326, who tend the sick poor and bury .them. The
brothers are frequently seen in the streets garbed in their black
robes, with cowls covering the head and leaving apertures for the
eyes only. The oratory contains a terracotta relief by Andrea delta
Robbie at the altar; in a side-room on the right are statues of the
Virgin and St. Sebastian by Benedetto da Majano.

To the left, also at the corner of the Via de' Calzajoli, is the
*Bigallo (Pl. E, F, 4), an exquisite little Gothic loggia, built in
1352-58, for the ‘Capitani di Santa Maria’, for the exhibition of
foundlings to the charitable public, and afterwards made over to
the ‘Capitani del Bigallo', a similar fraternity. Over the arcades
(N.) are a relief of the Madonna by Alberto di Arnaldo (1361) and
two almost obliterated frescoes representing the foundation of the
brotherhood (1444). The upper part of the loggia was restored by
Castellaszi in 1881—82. The chapel contains a Madonna and two
angels, by Alberta di Arnaldo, 1364. The room of the cashier is
adorned with a fresco-painting of Charity, with a view of Florence,
by Giom'no (‘2), and a triptych by Taddeo Gaddi (1333 .

Opposite the Bigallo is the “Battistero (P1. E, F, ), or church
of San Giovanni Battisla, originally (down to 1128) the cathedral of
Florence, an admirable octagonal structure withran octagonal cupola,
rising in well-proportioned stories, deﬁned by pilasters and embel-
lished with rich variegated marble ornamentation and handsome
oornices. The building, which was extolled by Dante (‘mio bel
San Giovanni’, Inf. xix. 17), was probably founded in the 7th or
8th cent., but was remodelled about 1200, when the previous
vestibule was replaced by the present choir-apse. The pillars on
the exterior angles were added by Amolfo di Cambio in 1293. All
children born in Florence are baptized here. — The three celebrated

I"Bronze Doors were added in the 14th and 15th centuries.

The ‘Frnsr Does, the oldest of the three, on the 6. side, opposite
the Bigallo. was completed by Andrea Hanna in 1330 after six \years of
labour. The reliefs comprise scenes from the life of John the Baptist
and allegorical representations of the eight cardinal virtues, square panels
with tastefully executed borders. The figures are full of vigorous life
and simple charm. The bronze decorations at the sides are by Victoria GM~

