San meo. FLORENCE. 58. Route. 499

tasteful monument of Piero de‘ Medici (father of Lorenso il lagniﬂco) and
his brother Giovanni, by Andrea Verrocchio (1.472). In the small chamber,
to the left, is a fountain also by Vewocchio. — in the 2nd cha l (Oapp.
Hartelli) are a Ionument to Donatello, by R. Rommel“ (i and an
Annunciation, by Ira Filippo Lippi. — In the Last Arsu is the artyrdom
of St. Lawrence, alarge fresco by Angelo Bromine. Adjacent is a beautiful
cantoris. by Donatello. -— The sdioining door leads to the cloisters and the

library (see below). N

The Cnorsms, immediately adjoining the church, with double
arcades attributed to Bruneileschi, form a striking reminiscence of the
great period of the Medici. Immediately to the right is a statue of
Paolo Giovio (1483-1555), the historian, by Francesco do. Sangauo
(1560).

A staircase, beginning in the passage to the right of the entrance
to the church, ascends to the upper story of the cloisters and to the
Biblioteca Laurenlinna (Pl. E, F, 4; adm., see p. 437; gratuities
forbidden), in library founded by Cosimo the Elder in 144-4, and
gradually enlarged by the Medici. Its chief treasure consists of
about 10,000 MSS. of Greek and Latin classical authors, many of
which are extremely valuable. The building was begun in 1523-6
from the design of Michael Angelo, the portico was built by him
(very eﬂective in spite of several eccentricities, such as the columns
inserted in the walls, with massive volutes below), and the staircase
Ewhich was also designed by Michael Angelo) was completed in

558-71 by Vasari ; the rotunda containing the Bibi. Delciana, was
erected in 1841, from Poccianti‘s design.

The wooden ceiling of the Library was executed by 6. .8. del Two and
Carota, from Michael Angela‘s designs (after 1529?). The last also fur-
nished the design for the 88‘plutei‘ to which the M88. are attached. Among
these are a number of codices of rare value: Virgil of the lth or 5th cent.;
Pliny of the 10th or iith cent. (from the Ashburnham Collection); Ta-
citus, two MSS. of the 10th and 11th cent. the older brought from Ger-
many and the sole copy containing the rst iive books of the Annals.
The andects, oi' the 6th or 7th cent., said to have been carried oil“ from
Amalﬂ by the Pisans in 1136, the oldest existing MS. of this collection,
on which the study of Roman Law almost entirely hinges. Host impor-
tant us. of Eschylus, and best MB. of Cicero‘s Epistolna ad Familiares.
Petrarch‘s Canzone, with portraits of Petr-arch and Laura. M58. 0! Dante
including a sumptuous codex of the end of the 14th century. Letters 01
Dante. Decamerone of Boccaccio. MSS. of Aliieri . ‘9). Document of
the Council of Florence, i439; Codex Amiatinus; yrlan gospels, with
miniatures of the 6th cent.- maps of Ptolemy. Catalogues by Assemann
(Oriental 1185.) and Bandini, continued by Del Furia.

To San Lorenzo belong also the New Sacristy and the Chapel of
the Princes, the entrance to which, however, is now in the Piazza
MADONNA (Pl. E, 3; adm., see p. 437), at the back of the church.
From the vestibule we ascend a ﬂight of steps to the left, and reach
ilrst the chapel of the princes, and then the new sacristy (on the left).

The (lunar. or run PRINCE! (Cappclla dei Principi), the burial
chapel of the grand-dukes of the Medici family, was constructed after
1604 by Matteo Nigctti, from the designs 0! Giovanni de’ Medici.

' It is octagonal in form, covered by a dome and gorgeously decorated
with marble and valuable mosaics in stone. 'fhe paintings in the dome

32'

