ur

of the Arno. FLORENCE. 58. Route. 509

The Finer CLors-rans were erected by Alfonso Par-iv! (entrance b the
saorlsty, see p. 5%). — The Bacon» Gaels-tans are by Amman“ ( 5“),
the paintings by Poccsttt. — The monastery is now in part a barrack, in
part still occupied by monks.

At the S. angle of the piazza rises the handsome Palazao
Guilds-3nd, now Dufour-Bcrtc (Pl. C, 6), an early-Renaissance edi-
ﬂce by Cronaca (15th cent.), with a loggia in the upper story and
a ﬂat wooden roof. The Via Mazzetta leads hence to the left to the
church of San Felice (p. 519) and the Case Guidi (p. 519) and to
the Palasso Piui (p. 510). We, however, follow, in the meantime,
the Via Ssnt’ Agostino, to the right, to the Piazza DBL Canxmn
(Pl. B, 4, 5), in which rises the church of —

Santa [aria del Carmine (Pl. B, 5), formerly belonging to the
adjoining Carmelita monastery, consecrated in 1422, burned down
in 1771, and re—erected within the following ten years. Among the
parts which escaped destruction is the Brancacci Chapel in the right
transept, embellished after 1423 (‘2) by Mosaccio, probably with the
assistance of Masolino, with celebrated "‘Frescoes from the tradi-
tions regarding the Apostles, especially St. Peter, to which Filippino
Lippi added others about 1484. These frescoes became of the highest
importance in the education of succeeding artists (comp. p. 11;

best light about 4 p.m.).

They represent: on the piers of the Enrasnoa, above on the right
the Fall (Karolina I), on the left the ‘Expulsion from Paradise (Mum),
imitated by Raphael in the Lasso of the Vatican. Lnrr WALL: above,

: ‘Peter taking the piece of money from the fish‘s mouth, a masterpiece of

composition (Mosaccio); below, SS. Peter and Paul resuscitating a dead
youth on the challenge of Simon Magus, and Peter enthroned, with
numerous portraits of painters and others (by nuppm Lippi). WALL
on ma Anna: above, 'Peter preaching (Masolinof; ‘combines, more than
any other fresco in the Brancacci, the grandeur of style which marks the
group of philosophers in the School of Athens at Rome, and the high
principle which presided over the creation of the Vision 0! Ezekiel in
the Pitti gallery‘. —- 6'. it 0.), and Peter baptising; below, Peter healing
the sick and distributing aims (these three by Masacu'o). Run-Ir WALL:
above, liealing the cripples (Masucdo) and Raising of.’l‘abitha (Hasolino?)
__ Besides the above-mentioned scenes the following also are by ’Wﬂiﬂo
Lippi.- on the right wall, below, the Cruciﬁxion of Peter, and Peter and
Paul before the proconsul; on the entrance-pillars, below, to the left,
St. Peter in prison comforted by St. Paul, to the right, Release of St. Peter.

The Orion: of the church contains the tomb of Piero Sodsrini, by
surname do Roostumo 1513, restored in 1780.—The Cousin! Cnsran, to the
left in the transept, bui tby Siluani in 1670-75, contains the tomb of St. Andrea
Corsini (1801-78), Bishop of Fiesole, and three large reliefs in marble by
Foggim', in celebration of the praises of the saint; painting in the dome
b Luca Giordano. — In the Saonrs'rx (entered from the right transept)
are frescoes from the history of St. Cecilia and St. Urban, by a follower

Glouo.

of The (Immune of the monastery (entrance to the right, adjoining
the church, or from the sacristy) contain a ﬁne fresco of the Madonna
With saints and donors, of the School of Giotto, and remains of frescoes
b Hasaca‘o 0), representing a procession. In the Refectory is a Last Supper
by Al. Allori.

From the Piazza del Carmine the Via dell’ Orto (P1. B, 4) leads

to the Ports San Frediano (see p. 5‘24).

